Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



HARVARD UNIVERSITY 



FRANCES LOEB LIBRARY 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF DESIGN 



w 



■H 




GaJS^ 




HOMESTEAD: THE HOUSEHOLDS OF A 

MILL TOWN 



RUSSELL SAGE FOUNDATION PUBLICATIONS 



THE STANDARD OF LIVING AMONG WORKINGMEN'S 
FAMILIES IN NEW YORK CITY. By Robert Coit Chapin. 
Ph.D. 388 pages. 131 tables. 16 diagrams. Price, postpaid, I2.00. 

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS. By Luther Halsey 
GuLicK, M.D., and Leonard P. Ayres, Ph.D. 286 pages. Third 
edition. Price, postpaid* 1 1.00. 

LAGGARDS IN OUR SCHOOLS: A Studv of Retardation and 
Elimination. By Leonard P. Ayres, Pn.D. 252 pages. 106 
tables. 38 diagrams. Third edition. Price, postpaid, ft. 50. 

CORRECTION AND PREVENTION. Four volumes prepared for 
the Eighth International Prison Congress. Edited by Charles 
Richmond Henderson, Ph.D. Price per set, postpaid, |io; per 
volume, net, I2.50. Titles: Prison Reform; Penal and Re- 
formatory Institutions; Preventive Agencies and Methods; 
Preventive Treatment of Neglected Children. 

JUVENILE COURT LAWS IN THE UNITED STATES: Sum- 
marized. 160 pages. Price, postpaid, |i.so. 

THE PITTSBURGH SURVEY. Six volumes. Fully illustrated. 
Price per set, postpaid, |io; per volume, net, |i.$o. 
WoUKN AND THE TiADBS. By EUabcth Beaidiky Butler. Price, postpaid, $1.79. 
WoKT-AociDiMTS AND THE Law. Bv Ciystal Eastman. Price, postpaid, $i.7X' 
Ths Steel Wqeeses. By John A. Fitch, New York Dept. of Labor. Price, post- 
paid, $z.7X. 
Homestead: T&e Housebolos or a Mill Town. By Margaret F. Byington. 

Price, postpaid, $1. 7a 
The PmsBURGB district. Symposium by John R. Commons, Robert A. Woods, 

Florence Kelley, Charies Molford Robinson and others. (In preparation.) 
Prtsbusoh: T^ Gist or the Survey. By Paul U. Kellogg. (In preparation.) 

HOUSING REFORM. A Handbook for Practical Use in American 
Cities. Bv Lawrence Veiller. 320 pages. 5 schedules. Price, 
postpaid, 1 1. 35. 

A MODEL TENEMENT HOUSE LAW. By Uwrence Veiller. 
1 30 pages. Price, postpaid, 1 1 .35 . 

AMONG SCHOOL GARDENS. By M. Louise Greene, M.Pd., 
Ph.D. Illustrated. 380 pages. Price, postpaid, 1 1.25. 

VVORKINGMEN'S INSURANCE IN EUROPE. By Lee K. 
Frankel and Miles M. Dawson, with the co-operation of Louis 
1. Dublin. 450 pages. 145 tables. Price, postpaid. |3.70. 

THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TUBERCULOSIS IN THE UNITED 
STATES: Including a Directory of Institutions. Compiled under 
direction of the National Association for Study and Prevention of 
Tuberculosis. By Philip P. Jacobs. 467 pages. Price, post- 
paid, 1 1.00. 

REPORT ON THE DESIRABILITY OF ESTABLISHING AN 
EMPLOYMENT BUREAU IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK. 
By Edward T. Devine, Ph.D., LL.D. 338 pages. Price, post- 

raid, 1 1. 00. 
DER USE OF THE SCHOOL PLANT. By Clarence A. Perry. 
Illustrated. 404 pages. Price, postpaid, 1 1.35. 

CHARITIES PUBLICATION COMMITTEE 

105 EAST 33D STREET, NEW YORK 



RUSSELL SAGE 
FOUNDATION 



HOMESTEAD 

THE HOUSEHOLDS OF A 
MILL TOWN 



By 



MARGARET F. BYINGTON 

DISTRICT AGBNT, BOSTON AMOOATBO CBAUTm; ASSISTAHT 
SBOETAKT, CHAUTT OBOAMIXATION DBPARTMBNT, 
KOtStU. 8AOB IDUMDATION 



THE PITTSBURGH SURVEY 

FINDINGS IN SIX VOLUMES 



Edited by 



PAUL UNDERWOOD KELLOGG 



NEW YORK 
CHARITIES PUBLICATION 
COMMITTEE MCMX 



ti^-: t it^^rj of xvt Schools 
$1 ljmd.wayc ▲rcHiiecture and City PUbbIhi: 



Copyright, 1910, by 
The Russell Sage Foundation 



PRESS OF WM. F. FELL CO. 




PHILADELPHIA 






'\+-D 


vpJ.;,.:.- 


-ii 


l^^"^ 


• 


• 


CM. ^^, . 







-lj^.r: \ 



EDITOR'S FOREWORD 

THE family as a social unit takes us back into shadows be- 
yond where history begins; the town carries with it a 
thousand written memories of walled boroughs, county 
markets and communes, where self-government had its beginnings. 
But the mill with its acres of tracks and sheds, its continuous opera- 
tion, its intricate plan of discipline, of interlocking processes, of 
insistent demands upon human nature, is a newer institution. 
Factory production is less than two centuries old. The power 
transmission through which the modem plant with its thousands 
of workmen has expanded and developed, is scarcely as many 
generations old. Electrically charged wires have become the 
binding nervous cords of industrial mechanism well within the 
memory of living men. 

Miss Byington's study is essentially a portrayal of these two 
older social institutions, the family and the town, as they are 
brought into contact with this new insurgent third. Has their 
development and equipment kept pace with mechanical invention? 
Have they held their own against the mill? Is the balance of life 
and work preserved? Or have we, in the industrial town of twen- 
tieth century America, not a "deserted village" such as Goldsmith 
lamented in eighteenth century England, but a more serious, anti- 
thetical problem in an overcrowded, overwrought aggregate of 
households. The query is, not shall "every rood of ground main- 
tain its man," but shall the day's work afford an adequate basis for 
American livelihood? 

Such a description, however modest in scope and put forth 
in the homely imagery of domestic life, deals thus with the forces 
which are wrenching at the very structure of society. There are 
other, perhaps more obvious circumstances, which give this book a 
distinctive place in the general scheme of these volumes. The 
colleagues in the field work of the Pittsburgh Survey took up special 



■-•-'. Po. 



editor's foreword 



factors affecting the welfare of the wage-earning population — such 
as sanitation, housing and public education; Miss Byington's com* 
mission was to analyze these factors as they enter jointly into the 
life of one of the small industrial communities which are character- 
istic of the Pittsburgh District, and especially to analyze them as 
they bear upon the well-being of family groups. Her book also 
complements Mr. Fitch's volume on wages and the general labor 
conditions in the steel industry. 

In carrying out this commission. Miss Byington made an in- 
timate case study of 90 households, employing methods of budget 
taking which have been developed for standard of living inquiries. 
She brought to her work, as basis for comparisons, an acquaint- 
ance with tenement conditions in New York and Boston. The 
resulting data have some rather obvious statistical shortcomings, 
which are explained in the appendix; but as a transcript of 
everyday economic existence, they served at once to re-enforce 
and to check up the impressions which grew out of her personal 
contact with the people who earned the money, and ate the 
food, and lived in the houses, and worshipped in the churches 
of this town. If the book inevitably brings out sharply the 
odds of life with which many industrial communities have to 
reckon, we trust that the loyalty of Homestead residents will not 
take offense that theirs should have been the town thus singled out 
for study. '*The rank and file of the people are with you," said 
an old mill man. To housekeepers and steel workers, to pro- 
fessional and business people, who gave freely of their time and 
information, we cannot offer thanks, for the book is partly theirs. 
Theirs, also, are the two irrepressible, grim interrogations which 
underlie both the statistical tables and the bits of neighborly 
gossip with which the author has enlivened her narrative. In 
their bearings upon contemporary economic and social conditions, 
these are questions for a nation as well as for this community. 

The first has to do with the town: how shall local self- 
government keep abreast of a nationalized industry? 

The second has to do with the family: here is a town de- 
pendent upon one of the great industries of America, which has 
profited by brilliant invention, by organizing genius, by a national 
policy of tariff protection. It was studied at the close of the 

vi 



editor's foreword 

longest period of prosperity which has been known by our genera- 
tion. What has that prosperity brought to the rank and file of 
the people whose waking hours are put into the industry? 

Miss Byington has summed up in a single phrase the nega- 
tive aspects of the situation so far as the men are concerned, 
who "turn daily from twelve hours in the din of the huge mills 
to home, supper, a smoke and bed." What steel production 
holds out to the families of these men she sets forth within the 
covers of this book. 

Paul U. Kellogg 

Director Pittsburgh Survey 



VU 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



VAOS 



Editor's Foreword v 

PART I 

THE MILL AND THE TOWN 

Chapter I 
Homestead and the Great Strike 3 

Chapter II 
The Make-up of the Town 12 

PART II 

THE ENGLISH-SPEAKING HOUSEHOLDS 

Chapter III 
Work, Wages, and the Cost of Living 35 

Chapter IV 
Rent in the Household Budget 46 

Chapter V 
Table and Dinner Pail . . • 63 

Chapter VI 
Other Expenditures: The Budget as a Whole .81 

Chapter VI 1 
Of Human Relationships 107 

Chapter VII 1 
The Children of Homestead 118 

PART III 

THE SLAV AS A HOMESTEADER 

Chapter IX 
The Slavs 131 

Chapter X 
Life at f 1. 65 a Day 138 

ix 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Chapter XI page 

Family Life of the Slavs 145 

Chapter XII 
The Slav Organized 158 

PART IV 

THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

Chapter XIII 
The Mill and the Household 171 

APPENDICES 

APPENDIX 

I. Methods of Budget Study 187 

II. Tables giving general description and average weekly 

expenditure of each of the 90 budget families . 206 

III. Employes in Homestead Plant of the United States 

Steel Corporation classified according to skill, 
citizenship, conjugal condition, etc., Mar. i, 1907 . 214 

IV. Classification and Earnings of Employes in Three 

Representative Steel Plants in the Pittsburgh 
District 215 

V. An Act to Enable Borough Councils to Establish 

Boards of Health. State of Pennsylvania. 1893 218 

VI. Report of the Board of Health of the Borough of 

Homestead for the year ending December 31, 1908 222 

VII. Record of Casualties on Unprotected Grade Cross- 
ings, Homestead, 1905- 1907 233 

VIII. Seven-Day Labor 236 

IX. Cost of Living in Pittsburgh 237 

X. Ratings on Men Employed in Iron and Steel Industry, 

by Prudential Insurance Company of America 243 

XI. Carnegie Relief Fund 245 

XII. Accident Relief Plan of the United States Steel Cor- 
poration 249 

XIII. The Carnegie Library, Homestead 255 

By W. F. Stevens, Librarian 

XIV. Slavic Organizations in Homestead .271 
XV. Population of Homestead and Munhall, 19 10 276 

Index 281 

X 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



FAaNO 



The Homestead Plant: Cam^e Steel Company 

Pittsburgh Survey Map 

Homestead from the Pittsburgh Side of the Monongahela 

Of the Old Time Irish Immigration (In color) 

Head: Slavic Day Laborer (In color) 

Detached Dwellings of the Better Type. Sixteenth Avenue 

Munhall 

"The Mansion" 

The Street 

Glen Alley, a Few Blocks from Frick Park, Homestead 
Double Grade Crossing Near the Heart of Homestead 

An Unpaved Alley 

Where the Mill Meets the Town 

Slavic Laborers 

Back Yard Possibilities in Homestead — I 
Back Yard Possibilities in Homestead — 1 1 
A One-Room Household 

A "Front Room" 

Row of Detached Workingmen's Houses 

Stacks Showing above Housetops 
Frame Houses. Five nx)ms and bath 
Brick Houses. Four nx)ms and bath 

Residence Street 

"Buckets" 

The Street Market .... 
Where Some of the Surplus Goes 
Eighth Avenue at Night, Homestead 
A Nickelodeon Audience in Homestead 

On the Outskirts 

In the Crowded Section 

Spontaneous Recreation Center, Homestead, 1907 
Saloon Comer, Saturday Night .... 

xi 



PAGE 

Frontispiece 
I 



m 



Munhall; 



Mill 



9 
12 

16 

19 
22 

22 

25 

28 

28 
37 

48 
48 

53 
56 

56 
60 

60 

60 

65 

73 

85 
88 

88 

102 

102 

107 

IN 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



The Lights of Kennywood Park 

Carnegie Library, Munhall . 

Orchestra; Carnegie Library 

Band Stand .... 

In Carnegie's Footsteps 

The Brook in Munhall Hollow 

Draughting Room, Schwab Manual Training School 

Carpenter Shop, Schwab Manual Training School . 

Machine Room, Schwab Manual Training School . 

Slav: Calling (In color) 

Section of Ward Two, Homestead, 1908 

Slavic Court 

Summer Evening in a Court 

Wash-Day in a Homestead Court 

Into America Through the Second Ward of Homestead 

When Meadows Have Grown Too Many Smokestacks 

Out of Work (Homestead Court, Spring of 1908) . 

A Contrast — I 

A Contrast — 1 1 

Gathered for a Bit of Gossip 

Washing up After a Day in the Mill 

Greek Catholic Church 

Old Worlds in New (In color) 

Going Home from Work 

Type of Steel Worker: Thirty-five Years from Germany 

Type of Steel Worker: Slav 

Type of Steel Worker: Pennsylvanian 

Balcony and Entrance, Carnegie Library, Homestead 



FAONO 
PAGX 

•3 
16 

'7 

'7 

'9 
21 

24 
24 

27 
29 

32 

33 

37 
[41 

144 

45 
48 

52 

52 

57 

57 
61 

64 

73 
76 

78 
80 

258 



XII 



LIST OF TABLES 

TAXLX PAOB 

1. Total population, and number and per cent of native and foreign bom in 

Homestead, 1900 13 

2. Total population, and per cent of native white and foreign bom in four 

boroughs of Allegheny County, 1900 13 

3. Total employes, and number and per cent of various racial groups in the 

Homestead Plant, Carnegie Steel Co., July, 1907 13 

4. Homestead and Munhall taxes, 1907 20 

5. Analysis of 90 budget families. — By racial .group and normal weekly 

wage of man 38 

6. Men employed in the Homestead Mill in July, 1907. Number and per- 

centages. By racial groups and degree of skill 40 

7. 90 budget families. — By racial and expenditure group .... 44 

8. Average weekly expenditures of 90 budget families in 1907: amounts 

and percentages. — By chief items of expenditure and racial group . 44 

9. Average weekly expenditures of 90 budget families, amounts and per- 

centages. — By chief items of expenditure and expenditure group . 45 

10. Average weekly expenditures of 77 house-renting families, amounts and 

percentages. — By chief items of expenditure and expenditure group 45 

1 1 . Average amount of rent per week paid by the jj house-renting families. — 

By expenditure and racial group 50 

1 2. Expenditure for rent of jj house-renting families. Average amount and 

percentage of total expenditure. — By racial group 52 

13. Expenditure for rent of jj house-renting families. Average amount 

and per cent of total expenditure. — By expenditure group ... 52 

14. Families having running water in the house and indoor closets. — By 

weekly rent 54 

15. 18 house purchasers among 90 budget families. — By normal weekly in- 

come and by racial group 57 

16. Average weekly expenditure for food of 90 budget families and per cent 

of total expenditure. — By racial group 68 

17. Same as Table 16. — By expenditure group 68 

18. Average weekly expenditure for food of 90 budget families. — By racial 

and expeiiditure group 68 

19. Average expenditure for food per man per day of 90 budget families. — By 

raaal and expenditure group 69 

20. Twenty-one families spending less than 22 cents per man per day for 

food. — By expenditure and racial groups 72 

21. Itemized account of food expenditures for one week by a thrifty house- 

keeper 76 

22. Itemized account of food expenditures for one week for a poor house- 

keeper 76 

23. Two weekly food budgets of a thrifty family 78 

24. Average weekly expenditure of 90 budget families for various items. — By 

expenditure group 84 

25. Ratio of weekly expenditures for various items between different ex- 

penditure groups 84 

26. Number of persons insured in 90 budget families and per cent of families 

carrying msurance. — By expenditure group 91 

• • • 

xin 



LIST OF TABLES 

TABLE PAQX 

27. Number of persons in 90 budget families insured in regular companies 

and lodges. — By racial group qi 

28. Expenditures of a family for one week in 1907 (Normal time) and in 

1908 (Time of depression) 98 

29. Budget families whose income included money drawn from the bank or 

goods secured on credit. — By income and racial group .... 99 

30. Food purchased on special order for boarders during month account was 

kept 139 

31. Food expenditures of a Slavic family for one week 141 

32. Two hundred and thirty-nine Slavic families in 31 courts. — By numbers, 

nationality and number of lodgers 143 

33. Number of persons per room in the 21 courts in families which took 

lodgers compared with the number in families which did not take 
lodgers, January, 1908 14A 

34. Numberof Births in each ward in Homestead for 1907. — By racial group . 146 

35. Number of deaths of children under two years of age in each ward in 

Homestead for 1907. — By racial ffroup 146 

36. Ratio of children bom in each ward in Homestead in 1907 to deaths of 

children under two in the same ward. — By racial ^roup .146 

37. Average weekly expenditure of 29 Slavic budget families . - ^5^ 

38. Average expenditure of Slavic families compared with those of other 

races spending more than |i 5 per week 156 

39. Average expenditures of two groups of 10 families each, those spending 

|i J or more a week and those spending less than |i2, with the ratio 

of increase 1 56 

40. Membership, dues and benefits of 9 Slavic societies in 1908 . .162 

APPENDIX I 

1. Analysis of 90 budget families. — By racial group, occupation and normal 

weekly wage of man 200 

2. Average normal weekly income and income from specified sources, of 90 

buoget families. — Bv racial group 201 

3. 90 bucket families. — By number of families having income from given 

sources in normal times and by racial group 201 

4. Average size of families, and of families including lodgers. — By expendi- 

ture and nationality groups 201 

5. 90 budget families. — Number of persons per room b)^ racial group 202 

6. Number of house-owning and house-renting families having water in 

house, and number having two or more persons per room. — By ex- 
penditure group 202 

7. 90 budget families occupying tenements of specified number of rooms. — 

By racial group 202 

8. 90 budget families occupying specified number of rooms. — By expendi- 

ture group 203 

9. Cost of certain articles of food in nine cities and ratio of the cost of these 

articles in other cities to the cost in Pittsburgh. — By cents per pound . 203 

10. Total average weekly expenditures of house-renting families expending 

less than |i2 a week, and proportions spent for food and rent by 
racial group 204 

1 1. Average expenditure for food per man per day. by size of family and 

expenditure group 204 

APPENDIX II 

Tables giving general description and average weekly expenditure of each of 

the 90 budget families 206 

xiv 



LIST OF TABLES 



APPENDIX III p^oj 

Employes in Homestead Plant of the United States Steel Corporation 
classified according to skill, citizenship, conjugal condition, etc.. 
Mar. I, 1907 214 

APPENDIX IV 

Qassification and earnings of employes in three representative Steel Plants 

of the Pittsburgh District, October I, 1907 215 



XV 



JcftLE -. 300 rr TO men 



PART I 
THE MILL AND THE TOWN 



CHAPTER I 
HOMESTEAD AND THE GREAT STRIKE 

HOMESTEAD gives at the first a sense of the stress of 
industry rather than of the old time household cheer 
which its name suggests. The banks of the brown Monon- 
gahela are preempted on one side by the railroad, on the other 
by unsightly stretches of mill yards. Gray plumes of smoke hang 
heavily from the stacks of the long, low mill buildings, and noise 
and effort dominate what once were quiet pasture lands. 

On the slope which rises steeply behind the mill are the 
Cam^e Library and the "mansion" of the mill superintendent, 
with the larger and more attractive dwellings of the town grouped 
about two small parks. Here and there the towers of a church 
rise in relief. The green of .the parks modifies the first impression 
of dreariness by one of prosperity such as is not infrequent in 
American industrial towns. Turn up a side street, however, and 
you pass uniform frame houses, closely built and dulled by the 
smoke; and below, on the flats behind the mill, are cluttered 
alleys, unsightly and unsanitary, the dwelling place of the .Slavic 
laborers. The trees are dwarfed and the foliage withered by the 
fumes; the air is gray, and only from the top of the hill above the 
smoke is the sky clear blue. 

There is more to tell, however, than can be gained by 
first impressions. The Homestead I would interpret in detail is 
neither the mill nor the town, but is made up of the households 
of working people, the sturdy Scotch and Welsh and German of 
the early immigration, the sons of Yankee "buckwheats," and 
the daughters of Pennsylvania Dutch farmers. Set off against 
the hill streets, lined with these English-speaking homes, are the 
courts where all Austria-Hungary seems gathered afresh. Here 
are lodging houses filled with single men, where the " boarding 
bosses" keep accounts in Russian, Slovak or Hungarian; alley 

3 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

dwellings where immigrant families are venturing a permanent 
home in one or two rooms, near by the Slavic church where 
their children are christened and receive their first communion. 
It is the home life the mill town leads on the wages the mill pays 
that has been the subject of my study. 

The glaring evils and startling injustices found on every 
hand in the congested sections of large cities supplied the first 
and strongest impetus toward social reform in this country. But 
many of the unwholesome living conditions which we associate 
with the poorer city neighborhoods are repeated in the average 
mill town with less excuse and with as bitter effects. Further- 
more, industrial conditions, such as low wages and long hours 
of labor, have as direct an influence upon home life as high rents 
and bad sanitation, and their influence can be studied in a com- 
munity which grows up about a single plant more easily than in 
one which presents the complications of a great city. With a 
knowledge of tenement districts in New York and Boston as 
a basis of comparison, I spent the greater part of a year in Home- 
stead, studying the family side of the labor problem as presented 
there. 

Homestead* is a community of approximately 25,000 people^ 
chiefly mill workers and their families. There is today no labor or- 
ganization among them. Trade unionism belonged to an earlier 
chapter in the history of the town. A generation of boys has 
now grown up and entered the mills without knowing by per- 
sonal experience what unionism is, or, except by hearsay, what the 
great strike of 1892 was about. Yet, as the history of the 
town has been largely the history of the mill, I must first sketch 
the development of both, and the labor struggle which fifteen 
years ago determined the relations between them. 

As late as 1870, two farms, the old McClure and West home- 
steads, occupied the site of the present mill and town. Scattered 
along the river on smaller holdings were the simple homes of a 
farming population. To get to Pittsburgh, seven miles down 
stream, the people had either to travel the distance by road or 
cross the river and take the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad at Brad- 

* Politically, as will be noted later, Homestead is made up of three inde- 
pendent boroughs : in common speech the one term covers them all. 

4 



HOMESTEAD AND THE GREAT STRIKE 

dock, two miles away. In 1871, the Homestead Bank and Life 
Insurance Company, which had bought the farms, cut them up into 
building lots and put them on the market, intending that Home- 
stead should be a residential suburb. With the building of the 
Pittsburgh, Virginia and Charleston Railroad in 1872, it became 
possible for people doing business in the city to live in Homestead. 
In 1874 the first church, St. John's Lutheran, was erected, and 
the little village began to have a social life of its own. In 1878, 
when its population was about 600, Bryce and Highbie opened a 
glass factory and the town's industrial history began. Ten houses, 
the first to be built for rent, were erected on Fifth Avenue for 
the married workmen. The land above the works was still an 
open field where farmers from the nearby country drove their cows 
to graze. 

In 1881, when Klomans built a steel mill on the banks 
of the river, the step definitely determining the future of Home- 
stead was taken. The Klomans mill was absorbed by the Cam^e 
Steel Company in 1886, and became in turn one of the most im- 
portant plants of the United States Steel Corporation on its or- 
ganization in 190 1 . The site of Homestead made its part in this in- 
dustrial development almost inevitable. Situated on the Monon- 
gahela River, six miles below its confluence with the Youghiogheny 
and seven miles above the point where with the Allegheny it 
forms the Ohio, the town has unusual facilities for water carriage, 
as well as the supply of water necessary for the processes of steel 
manufacture. Railroad and lake routes bring iron ores from 
the mines of Michigan to meet here the fuel needed to reduce 
them. The river, which is navigable from Fairmont, West 
Virginia, — a distance of over one hundred miles, — ^runs through a 
r^on of bituminous mines. It has been this nearness to the 
coal beds which has made the Pittsburgh District a steel center, 
and the level space in the bend of the river at Homestead the 
floor of a great steel mill. 

By 1892, 8000 people had gathered at Homestead, though 
the town still kept many of its village characteristics. The 
population was composed of a fairly homogeneous group, 
most of them speaking the same language and mingling freely 
in school, church and neighborhood life, as well as within the 

5 J 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

mill. While it is impossible to secure any definite figures as to 
the make-up of the population in those days, certain facts 
give us a general picture of the earlier situation. Among the 
families visited for this study, half of the Americans and 
about half of the foreign bom, who came from Great Britain and 
Western Europe, had been 1 5 years in Homestead ; of 264 Slavs, 
however, only 31 were living here before the strike of 1892. 

The churches founded before 1892 were Lutheran, Presby- 
terian, Methodist, Baptist, United Presbyterian, Episcopal, and 
German Evangelical. It was not until 1896 that a Slavic church 
was built. During the ten years following the starting of the 
mill, there was still much immigration to the United States from 
Great Britain and Germany, and the growing town was in a large 
measure recruited from these peoples. The good pay offered in 
the mills attracted also American boys. Apparently, the officials 
fostered this natural gravitation to the industry. 

In a letter written in the early days. Captain Jones, of the 
Edgar Thomson Works, said, " My experience has shown that Ger- 
mans, Irish, Swedes and 'buckwheats' (young American country 
boys), judiciously mixed, make the most effective, tractable force 
you can find. Scotsmen do very well, are honest and faithful. 
Welsh can be used in limited quantities. But Englishmen have 
been the worst class of men — sticklers for high wages, small pro- 
duction and strikes."* 

According to an old resident, the men of each nationality 
often grouped themselves in separate mills, and, when there were 
good openings, sent to the old country for their friends. The ties 
thus created had their share in making possible an early de- 
velopment of trade unionism, for along with uniform standards of 
living, existed the opportunity to organize in order to secure con- 
ditions which would make those standards possible. Almost 
immediately after the opening of the mill the men formed a lodge 
of the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers, and 
within a year there was a small, quickly settled strike. 

The Homestead lodges grew steadily in power until they held 
an assured place. The wage scale was each year fixed by agree- 
ment between committees representing the Amalgamated Associa- 

* Bridge, J. H.: Inside History of the Carnegie Steel Company, p. 81. 

6 



HOMESTEAD AND THE GREAT STRIKE 

tion and the employers in the industry. Within the mill also 
the men had much influence, and in many minor points con- 
trolled the action even of the superintendents. There developed, 
however, a diversity of interest, not between the different races 
but between two main wage groups, — the less skilled men, many of 
whom are paid by the day, and the highly skilled workers upon 
whom the output of the mills depends, who are paid by the ton. 
The lodges of the Amalgamated Association, consisting almost 
entirely of the tonnage men, were charged with ignoring the 
interests of the day men. A man employed there at the time 
told me that some of the highly skilled workers, such as rollers, — 
who were really sub-bosses and were paid on the basis of the out- 
put of the gang under them, — made as much as I300 in two weeks. 
The rank and file felt with some bitterness that not only were the 
capitalists securing far more than their share of the proceeds 
of labor, but that these few among the workers were also unduly 
favored. False standards in some cases were developed by the 
abnormally high pay, and the tendency of the few to spend care- 
lessly what had been earned thus easily gave the town a reputation 
for extravagance. A woman said, " My father used to earn I300 
in two weeks and yet he never saved anything, and never tried to 
buy a house ; that was because he drank. Why, now we have 
paid for our house and have money in the bank and the 'mister' 
never makes more than I25 a week." The reckless expenditure of 
the exceptionally paid men, however, apparently no more than 
reflected the general spirit of the Pittsburgh District in days when 
new processes were doubling output and money was easily made. 
This, then, was the situation at the time of the great strike 
in 1892, which in so many ways influenced the future of Home- 
stead. Within the five years preceding, the Carnegie Steel Com- 
pany had doubled its capital and had increased the number of 
employes in Homestead alone to about 4000, 800 of whom were 
members of the Amalgamated Association. In 1889, a sliding 
scale had been introduced by which the rate of pay per ton varied 
with the market price of steel, under the proviso, however, that 
if the latter fell below I25 per ton no further reduction in wages 
was to be made. This agreement did not affect the wages of the 
day men. In the spring of 1892, the Association voted to renew 

7 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

the contract on the old terms, but the company demanded that 
the base should be I22 instead of I25 and that the contract should 
expire in January instead of July. After a number of conferences, 
the company advanced its minimum to I23 and the men reduced 
theirs to I24, but no concessions at all were made in regard to the 
date of expiration of the contract. The men felt that in case of 
disagreement and strike they would be at a far greater disadvantage 
in the winter when lack of work would be more keenly felt. The 
company, on the other hand, claimed that as its commercial con- 
tracts were frequently made to date from January i, it was 
necessary to know at that time what was to be the labor cost for 
the ensuing year. 

Behind these ostensible points of disagreement, however, 
lay one fundamental issue which, though seldom mentioned, was 
the keynote of the strike, — trade unionism. The Amalgamated 
Association had been taking to itself more and more power. A 
small group secured the desirable positions; the permission of 
the Association had to be obtained before any of its members 
could be discharged. It stood in the way of lowering individual 
wage rates, and in general not only obstructed the free hand which 
the company wanted but interfered with many details of 
operation. 

In 1889, H. C. Frick became chairman of Carnegie Brothers 
and Company. As he had aroused the antagonism of the labor 
world through his suppression of the strike in the coke region a 
few years before, the mill men feared that he would crush the 
Amalgamated Association. More keen, therefore, than their in- 
terest in the points at issue was the belief that if they failed 
in this strike, the power, if not the very existence of the union, 
would go. This fear accounts for the pertinacity with which 
the struggle was fought to the finish and for the deep-seated 
bitterness which followed the men's defeat. 

The strike began June 30. The Association, which had been 
so recently indifferent to the condition of the day men, now realized, 
since many of the latter could be put into the skilled positions, that 
the strike could not be won without their assistance. A call was 
thereupon issued for them to strike, and the day men, with every- 
thing to lose and almost nothing to gain, went out too, and 

8 



HOMESTEAD AND THE GREAT STRIKE 

remained faithful supporters to the end. A committee of fifty 
men, called the advisory board, conducted the strike. 

Shortly after the trouble began, the company attempted to 
bring into the mill some 300 men in charge of Pinkerton detec- 
tives. The strikers had feared that the company would do this, 
since Mr. Frick had called in the Pinkertons at the Connellsville 
coke strike and bloodshed had followed. The detectives started 
up the river in boats in the early morning of July 6, and a scout 
who had been stationed by the strikers came on horseback to 
warn the town. The story of that morning, as it is retold among 
the people of Homestead, suggests vividly the ride of Paul Revere 
to rouse other insurgents more than a century earlier. Men and 
women hurried to the mill, weapons were hunted up and barricades 
erected. Which side fired the first shot is still a debated question, 
but a miniature battle followed in which seven persons were 
killed and others wounded. The Pinkertons finally surrendered, 
were brought into the town and later were returned to Pittsburgh. 
There are conflicting stories as to the incidents of the day, stories 
of bloodshed and cruelty. The one clear fact is that the mob 
fury latent in most men was wakened by that first shot. It is 
hard to believe that the sober, self-contained workmen who told 
me the story fifteen years afterward had been part of the frenzied 
crowd on the river bank. 

As is so often the case, however, that July morning over- 
shadowed in the minds of the public the true character and sig- 
nificance of the determined struggle, which under conservative 
leadership lasted four or five months. For after the first clash 
the question became one of endurance, and though the state 
militia were called in no further disturbance of any magnitude 
arose. One woman, the owner of a number of small houses, told 
me that in the latter part of the strike she rented some of them 
to non-union men, but that contrary to her expectation she 
experienced no personal annoyance. Quietly, stubbornly, the 
men continued the fight. The contributions which poured in 
from fellow workmen and the public prevented physical suffering; 
sympathetic strikes kept up their courage, as did the difficulty 
of the company in finding men to take their places. In the mean- 
time the life of the town went on, changed but little by the in- 

9 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

dustrial conflict. The local papers tell of weddings, of picnics, of 
church suppers and of the casual comings and goings of the towns- 
people, while in the mill below was being contested, though in a 
waiting game, the issue which was to determine in many respects 
the future of the village. 

Since the whole town was in one way or another dependent 
on the mill, the interest even of small merchants and others not 
directly concerned was of course intense. While some of the 
people appreciated the weak points in the claims of the Amalga- 
mated Association, the general feeling was so strong that no 
one would express an opinion unfavorable to the union. The 
mild tone of the local papers leads one to believe that they did 
not reflect the state of the public mind, with its resentment 
at the presence of the soldiers and its alternations of hope and 
despair as to the outcome of the summer. About the middle of 
October the men realized that they had failed, and went back 
— those who could get their old jobs — at a wage determined by 
the company. A few were refused positions, and many others 
who found that their places in the mill had been taken by the 
strike breakers had either to take inferior positions or go elsewhere. 
The resulting bitterness made itself felt for years in the relation 
of the men to the Carnegie Company. When you talk with a 
skilled and intelligent man who is still refused work in any mill 
of the United States Steel Corporation because of the part he 
played in that strike, over fifteen years ago, you realize why the 
passions it aroused have not died out. For most of the town, 
life resumed its normal course. Newspapers in New Orleans and 
St. Paul and San Francisco ceased to discuss Homestead; it drop- 
]>ed back to its place among industrial towns, facing for good 
or ill the problems which this changed labor situation created. 

Lx>oking back from the vantage ground of the present, one 
is impressed by the vital character of the questions at issue. The 
particular change in the wage scale which was ostensibly the 
point under dispute, was, comparatively speaking, a small matter; 
the significant fact is that every cut since has been accepted by 
the men without hope and with no effective protest. 

There was involved a question of social equity apart from 

lO 



HOMESTEAD AND THE GREAT STRIKE 

whether the union carried its interference in mill administration to 
unwarranted lengths, or whether the company had grounds for 
adopting its inflexible policy of suppressing any labor organiza- 
tions among the men. This question was whether the workmen 
in the industry were to profit in the long run by improved and 
cheapened processes of production ; in other words, was mechani- 
cal prepress to mean a real increase of prosperity to the com- 
munity as the years passed. If the Homestead strike had been 
won by the men, the company would have continued to recognize 
that settled employes have some claims with respect to the terms 
of their employment, and to grant them a voice in the wage 
adjustments which from time to time determine what share of 
the proceeds of production belongs to labor. It may well be 
questioned whether the standards of living for steel employes 
would have settled to their present levels. 

The union ceased to exist, and since that date those common 
factors in employment which circumscribe a man's life, — his hours, 
his wages, and the conditions under which he works, — and which 
in turn vitally affect the well-being of his family; these he was 
to have less and less share in determining. 



II 



CHAPTER II 
THEMAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

THE strike ended, mill and town continued their rapid growth 
until little is now left to suggest the village which in 1870 
we saw developing on the farms beside the river. The 
changes of the intervening years, however, except for the influx 
of the Slavs, have been gradual and unnoticed. Their history is 
unwritten, and our real interest lies rather in the present develop- 
ment, in the type of town which the great plant and its 7000 
employes have created at Homestead. The population is typical 
of the newer American industrial centers as distinguished from the 
New England village or the western county seat. It is a town 
primarily of workingmen — a town of many transients. It is, 
moreover, strikingly representative of the two waves of immigra- 
tion, — the first, of Teutons and Celts, the later, of Slavs — and of 
the great social cleavage between them. 

While at the date of this study there were no detailed sta- 
tistics of nationalities making up the population, the census of 
1900 reported for the borough of Homestead, 4528 native white of 
native parents, 3781 native white of foreign parents, 3594 foreign 
bom white, 640 Negroes, and 11 Chinese; that is, about 36 per 
cent of the population was native white of native parents. This 
percentage is fairly typical of mill towns in the steel district, as 
shown by a comparison with nearby industrial boroughs (Table 2) . 

Facts obtained as to the birthplace of men employed in the 
mill in July, 1907, the greater number of whom live in Homestead, 
give with fair accuracy the racial groups represented in the present 
foreign bom population. Of 6772 employes, 1925, or 28.4 per 
cent, were native white, 121 colored, 398 English, 259 Irish, 
129 Scotch, 176 German, 3603 Slavs,'*' and 161 other European 

* In this book "Slav" is used as a general term to include Magyars and 
Lithuanians, as well as those belonging to the Slavic race. For an exhaustive 
and thoroughly interesting account of the immi^ation to this country from 
Austro-Hungary see Balch, Emily Greene: Our Slavic Fellow Qtizens. New York, 
Charities Publication Committee, 19 10. 

12 



Drawn by Joseph SitUa 



Op the Old Tiue Irish Imuic.R; 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

TABLE I. — ^TOTAL POPULATION, AND NUMBER AND PER CENT OP 
NATIVE AND FOREIGN BORN IN HOMESTEAD, IQOO 



Total 
Popula- 


Native White 
OF Native Pa- 
rents 


Native White 
OF Foreign Pa- 
rents 


Foreign Born 
White 


Colored 


tton 


Number 


Per cent 


Numher 


Percent 


Number 


Percent 


Number 


Per cent 


»2.554 


4528 


36.0 


3781 


30.1 


3594 


28.6 


651 


5-2 



TABLE 2. — ^TOTAL POPULATION, AND PER CENT OF NATIVE WHITE 
AND FOREIGN BORN IN FOUR BOROUGHS OF ALLEGHENY 
COUNTY. 1900* 







Native 


Native 










White op 


White op 


Foreign 


Colored 




Total 
Popw 
latum 


Native 


Foreign 


Born White 


Borough 


Parents 


Parents 








Num. 


Per 


Num. 


Per 


Num- 


Per 


Num. 


Per 






ber 


cent 


ber 


cent 


ber 


cent 


ber 


cent 


Braddock 
Duquesne 


1565^ 
9036 


4887 
2^ 


30.6 


5098 
2628 


32.6 
29.1 


5io| 


32.6 
38.2 


564 
>95 


3.6 

2.2 


Millvale 


6736 


31.0 


3056 


45-4 


1 58 1 


^3-5 


II 


0.2 


Sharpsburg 


6842 


2766 


40.4 


2539 


37- « 


1279 


18.7 


258 


3.8 



TABLE 3. — ^TOTAL EMPLOYES, AND NUMBER AND PER CENT OF 
VARIOUS RACIAL GROUPS IN THE HOMESTEAD PLANT, CARNEGIE 
STEEL CO., JULY, I907 



Total 


Number and Per cent of 


Em- 
ployes 


Native 
White 


English 


Irish 


Scotch 


German 


Other 
Euro- 
peans 


Slav 


Colored 


6772 


1925 


398 


259 


Y29 


176 


161 


3603 


121 


too.o 


28.4 


16.6 


53-2 


1.8 



*Twelfth U. S. Census, 1900. 

«3 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

nationalities. These figures show the absence of Italians as a 
factor in the labor situation in the mills, and the predominance 
of Slavs, who form over 53 per cent of the total number employed. 

As Germans and British tend to amalgamate with the native 
whites the community has fallen more or less naturally into two 
major groups, — the English-speaking and the Slavs. 

The Negroes form a third group, much fewer in numbers, 
allied to the first group by a common speech, but resembling the 
second in the attitude toward them in the earlier days when 
they were looked down upon as intruders of alien blood. In 
Homestead, Negroes are not engaged in domestic service as in 
most northern cities, but are employed in the mill or in the building 
trades. Of those who are now in the mills, some came in the first 
instance as strike breakers and have advanced to well-paid 
positions. I call to mind especially a man who, starting as a 
laborer, is now a roller, the highest skilled of the steel workers. 
These men have in the main come to adopt the same standards 
as their white neighbors, and are usually treated with genuine 
respect by the latter, but there is still some sense of resentment 
roused by the success of the Negroes or their pretensions to 
gentility. An interesting instance of this attitude came to my 
attention. A white woman who had been for many years a 
resident of Homestead was especially vexed because a nearby 
house had been sold to a Negro. Some weeks later I vbited the 
wife of thb colored property owner, who had been ill, and she 
told me feelingly how good her white neighbors had been to her. 
She spoke especially of this older resident who had complained 
to me, and mentioned how she had brought dainties and finally 
helped persuade her to go to the hospital. Thus, though social 
distinctions still exist and the colored people have their own 
lodges and churches, the more prosperous among them are winning 
respect.* 

The break between the Slavs and the rest of the community 
is on the whole more absolute than that between the whites and 

*There is a totally different class of colored people, who run houses of 
ill fame and gambling resorts on Sixth Avenue; a "sporty" element which 
is much in evidence and creates for the race an unpleasant notoriety. These 
people frequently appear in police courts and form a low element in tne town 's 

14 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

the Negroes. Neither in lodge nor in church, nor, with a few 
exceptions, in school, do the two mingle. Even their living places 
are separated; the Second Ward, except for those who owned 
homes there in earlier years, has been largely abandoned to the 
newer immigrants. This sharp division, while partly due to the 
barrier which differences in language and custom create, is in- 
tensified by a feeling of scorn for the newcomers on the part of 
the older residents. They are " Hunkies," that is all, and many 
an American workman who earns but a few cents a day more 
looks upon them with an utter absence of kinship. The more 
intelligent Slavs, who desire better things for their people, feel 
this lack of understanding keenly, for they realize the handicap 
it means in their upward struggle. 

The change from the early homogeneous group of workmen 
in Homestead is due in part to the fact that the general tide of 
immigrants now setting toward the United States comes from the 
Slavic countries, and in part to the increasing demand for manual 
laborers able to do the hard, unskilled work in the mills. This 
heavy labor the English-speaking group is now less willing to 
perform and here the Slav finds his opportunity. 

The population of the town has also been affected by the 
fact that the steel industry calls for the work of men only. In 
the census for 1900, we find that of the 12,554 people in Homestead 
borough, 7,141, or 56.9 per cent, were males, while in Allegheny 
County as a whole the males formed 52 per cent, and in the 
entire United States but 51.2. The preponderance of males was 
even greater among the immigrant population in Homestead, 
constituting 63.4 per cent of the foreign bom. Furthermore, of 
the men employed in the mill, 35.3 per cent are unmarried, though 
only 10.2 per cent are under twenty. The large transient body 
of single men, as we shall see in Chapter XI, constitutes a serious 
menace to home life among the Slavs. Other transients are also 
numerous, and their presence lessens the effective civic force of 
the community. Among them are many young college graduates 
employed in the mechanical departments of the mill, who do not 
consider themselves permanent residents. My acquaintance with 
those met in two boarding houses in Homestead showed me that 
their interest in the town was casual. Few take any active share 

15 



• . • 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

either in local politics or in movements to improve local condi- 
tions. 

The families of the English-speaking workers, however, are 
bound together by common interests and common ties. They 
live near enough to see each other easily, their lives are molded 
by similar forces and as a result a more than usual degree of sym- 
pathy exists among them. This is shown perhaps most strikingly 
in the great kindnesses of neighbor to neighbor in times of distress. 
Such acts are not looked upon as charity. If a man is ill, the men 
in his mill take up a collection for his needs as friend for friend, 
knowing that when the need is theirs he will return the kindness. 
A man told me of his experience when he was laid up four months 
with rheumatism. He had begun to worry about bills, for when 
pay day came no pay was due him. But his "buddy" walked 
in with an envelope containing a sum of money. Later, when 
this was exhausted, the men made another gift. He accepted it 
very simply, almost as a matter of course, the thought of similar 
gifts he had made, and others he would make, keeping him from 
feeling any sense of obligation. This sense of community of 
interest 1 found helped greatly to strengthen the fraternal organ- 
izations. 

In the main, then, this is a town of wage-earners. None of 
those extremes of wealth and social position that exist in cities 
are found here. There is a small social circle composed of business 
and professional men and the officials in the mill. As some of 
the most skilled workmen earn more than the minor officials 
over them, the line between workmen and superintendents is 
not a sharp one. In the days of small industries the mill owner 
lived in the mill town, maintaining there his social as well as 
economic leadership, stimulating its activities and playing his 
part in movements for its well-being. But the individual mill 
owner is a thing of the past. Stockholders have taken his place. 
They are scattered all over the country and know their property 
only as a source of dividends, giving in return neither interest 
nor stimulus to the workers ; and managers and superintendents, 
however public spirited, shift and change. 



i6 



DraiL-n by Joseph Stella 



Head: Slavic Day Laborer 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

These are some of the changes in the social make-up of the 
borough which have come with that business development which 
has made the Homestead mills part of a national industry, and 
with that labor policy which has opened the doors to all comers 
and has tolerated no control of the situation by the men on the 
ground. Under such conditions of growth it is well to ask how 
adequately the physical difficulties of building a town on the river 
bank have been mastered; what has been the development of civic 
and political institutions to meet the needs of the changing com- 
munity; and what the economic development of the borough, 
outside of the great industry itself . 

My inquiry into these things has been limited intentionally 
to certain aspects of the situation as reflected in the household 
life. 

We have seen that industrial factors— easy access to ores, 
water, transportation, etc. — ^made Homestead an ideal mill site. 
As a site for a town it is not ideal.* The river in hollowing its 
way through the hills sometimes left a narrow rim along its banks, 
but more often the descent to the water's edge is abrupt. The 
larger level space at a sharp bend was chosen as the site. for the 
mill. As the plant was at first small the buildings did not monop- 
olize the entire river front, and the low ground then open to 
the river furnished ample room for the homes of the workers. 
The mill, however, grew rapidly and spread over more and more of 
the level, till now its buildings stretch for a mile along the water. 
In its growth it has encroached on some of the territory already 
occupied by houses. The last to go were the rows of little shanties 
inside the mill grounds erected to shelter the strike breakers of 
1892, — a settlement called Potterville, after the superintendent 
in charge during the strike. These houses were demolished some 
four years ago and the tenants had to move to the already 
crowded districts just outside. This congestion, due to the desire 
of the employes for homes near their work, is increased by the 
steepness of the hill behind, a weary climb after the labor of the 
day. As the site of the mill was extended up the river, houses 
were built further along the hillside and also along the ravines 
where the slope was more gradual. In this way the town pushed 

*See map, facing page i. 

3 17 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

out beyond the narrow triangle with its base on the river, which 
formed the original borough. Instead, however, of extending 
the boundaries of Homestead to cover this new territory two 
additional boroughs were created, Munhall on the east and West 
Homestead on the west. Consequently we have the curious 
anomaly of a town that is a social and industrial unit parceled 
off into three politically independent boroughs. 

Munhall, the eastern part of the hill, was originally sepa- 
rated from Homestead by a ravine, and was largely the property 
of John Munhall, one of the oldest residents of the town. Ad- 
joining was the site of the Pittsburgh City Poor Farm. It was 
here that the state militia were quartered in 1 892. Soon after the 
strike, the property was bought up by the Carnegie Land Company, 
now a constituent part of the United States Steel Corporation. 
Before any lots were offered for sale, streets were laid out, sewers, 
running water and electricity put in, and houses planned 
and erected. The majority of the larger houses were sold 
to mill employes, and those that the company still owns can 
only be rented by them. In 1901, on application of the property 
owners, the borough was incorporated.* It included not only 
the land owned by the Carnegie Land Company, but three- 
quarters of the mill property itself. Munhall thus forms a geo- 
graphical triangle similar to Homestead, the mill occupying the 
base on the river and the residence portion lying on the hill 
above. 

Beyond Munhall lies the "Hollow," a deep ravine with a 
meandering stream at the bottom and with irregular rows of 
houses, often hardly more than shanties, on either hand. Forty- 
four acres of land hang upon the sides of the two abrupt hills. 
The land is owned by the John Munhall Estate; and the 250 
frame, box-like houses, many of them no larger than two rooms, 

* This action was taken under a provision of the state constitution that 
any section of a township may, with the approval of the county court, be formed 
into a borough on the vote of a majority of its electors. The site of the Carne- 
gie steel plant at Homestead was formerly part of Mifflin township and the town- 
ship collected all the tax. It was found that the tax rate on other parts of the 
township was being reduced to a minimum while the bulk of the tax receipts 
coming from the steel plant was being used in rural parts and very little S])ent 
in the neighborhood of the works. The new borough of Munhall was oiganized 
and the taxes paid by the works were thereafter expended within its boundaries. 

18 



< o 

si 



n 



u 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

are owned mostly by unskilled laborers in the mills. The Munhall 
Estate lets the land upon which the workers build their houses 
on ten-year leases. Like the Cabbage Patch in which the Wiggses 
lived, it is a "queer neighborhood where ramshackle cottages 
play hop-scotch" over the crooked ditch and up the hillsides. 
The property is not surveyed into streets, there being only one 
public thoroughfare, an unpaved dirt road running lengthwise of 
the hollow; and, along most of the road, the owner seems in 
building his house to have "faced it any way his fancy prompted." 
The borough has installed street lights along this road, and has 
placed perhaps half a dozen upon the private property of the 
estate; but there are no sewers nor other public improvements. 

A branch line of street cars running through the Hollow 
connects with a rather promising suburb called Homeville, built 
on the hill slopes at the end of the ravine. Another branch line 
runs straight back from the river over the top of the hill to Home- 
stead Park and Lincoln Place, suburbs attractively situated on 
high ground. Whitaker, which adjoins Munhall to the east, 
has a population of about 2000, largely wage-earners. As these 
men work in the mill, and their families shop in Homestead, 
they might fairly be included in the Homestead census. Hays, 
toward Pittsburgh, is another borough that is at least in a meas- 
ure a part of the Homestead community. 

Nearer by, formed by the extension of Homestead to the 
west, in much the same way that Munhall was created to the east, 
is West Homestead. Disregarding the outlying settlements, 
these three boroughs may be said to make up the fairly compact 
but politically divided community which has been gathered to- 
gether by the Homestead mill. Though West Homestead con- 
tains less wealth than Munhall, it includes the plant of the Mesta 
Machine Company, the only other considerable industry in the 
town. Each of these separate boroughs elects its own officials, 
makes its own ordinances, and provides through taxation for its 
own needs. Through this division the taxable properties of the 
great industries are separated from the central borough, which 
has by far the largest population and which, with the exception of 
Munhall Hollow, includes the sections where the poorest workers 
live. On this point, I can quote from Shelby M. Harrison, a 

«9 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

colleague in the work of the Pittsburgh Survey, who compares 
the fiscal situation in Homestead and Munhall as follows: 

The mill-worker resident in Homestead is affected by 
the tax question from at least two directions. First, over 
three-fourths of the mill property is located in Munhall 
borough where, except in 1907, the tax rate has never 
been over half that m Homestead, the borough in which a 
majority of the mill workers live. In IQ07, property in 
Munhall paid a total borough and school tax of 8^ mills 
on the dollar, while in the same year Homestead property 
paid 1 5 mills."" This artificial division into separate taxing 
districts of a community which is in practically all senses a 

TABLE 4. — homestead AND MUNHALL TAXES, I907 



r* * 


Assessed 

ytduation of 

Property 


MiLLAGE 


•F"—. 1 •»' 


Boroughs 


1 


05 


K 


ToUd Tax 


Munhall .... 
Homestead 


I6.957.630 
9.120,765 


? 


4} 

7 


8i 
"5 


1 57*400.45 
136,811.48 


Total .... 


I16.078.395 








I194.211.93 



unit, however that division may have come about, relieves 
the Steel Corporation from much of its local responsibility 
as a property holder. Its relief means a heavier burden 
upon the residents of Homestead; some one must build 
and maintain schools and public works, protect person and 

f property, and support local government. The burden is 
urther accentuated by the tendency among assessors, com- 
mon in all industrial centers, to value small properties at 
much nearer their full market value than they do large 
properties — especially large manufacturing plants. Con- 
servative estimates by persons familiar with the situation 

* In 1908. the rates were, Munhall, 8i mills. Homestead, 16 mills; in 1909, 
Munhall, 8i mills. Homestead, 18 mills. In 1910, with no statement or explana- 
tion to the taxpayers, the Homestead borough council jumped the borough millage 
from 10 to 13. The school tax for 1910 is 9 mills, the total local rate thus reaching 
22 mills, or 2.2 per cent of the assessed value of property, a rate 2} times that in 
Munhall. 

20 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

indicate that the mill property in both boroughs is not 
assessed upon more than 30 per cent of its actual value, 
whereas Homestead residence property will average an 
assessed valuation equal to 80 per cent of its market value. 
Thus, in reality, the tax rate ujion much the greater part of 
the mill property must be more than cut in two for pur- 
poses of comparison. A rate of 8{ mills on a 30 per cent 
valuation is equal to 2.5 mills on full valuation; and 15 
mills on an 80 per cent valuation equals 12 mills on fuU 
value; so that the real tax rates closely approximate 2.5 
niills for the corporation against 12 mills, practically five 
times as much, for the everyday Homestead taxpayer. The 
same percentages would hold with respect to county taxes. 

On the other hand, if this social and industnal unit 
were made a municipal unit, then instead of Munhall paying 
a tax of 8^ mills on the dollar, as in 1^7, and Homestead 
paying 15 mills on the dollar, the united boroughs could 
receive the same total revenues as before by paying 12 mills 
upon the same valuations. This would reauce the tax rate 
for the Homestead householder by three mills, or 20 per 
cent less than his present rates. It would raise the tax rate 
on a majority of the corporation property 3^ mills, or 45 per 
cent. Raising the assessed valuation of^the property of 
the steel company to the general level would reauce the 
householders' rates still further. 

Second, the Homestead borough government aggra- 
vates this heavy burden of taxation instead of lightening it. 
In direct contrast to conditions in Munhall, where the 
influence of the Carnegie Steel Company practically domin- 
ates borough action and has made the local government 
efficient and without suspicion of graft, an appreciable part 
of Homestead's public funds has been squandered upon 
enterprises that have failed, the cost of improvements is 
excessive, and the city's finances are looked after in an 
utterly haphazard fashion. In 1907-8, 195,000 was out- 
standing as delinc]uent taxes — ^mucn over half the sum 
annually assessed in taxes for the borough. Although the 
borough bears a big debt burden, and although its bonds 
stipulate that a sinking fund must be established for their 
retirement, no sinking fund has existed for a number of 
years. Yet borrowing is resorted to with small concern. 
In 1907 the bonded debt amounted to 1441,500, and the 
current debt to 116,933, — l458,ooo in all.* The borough 

* In March, 1910, the borough was 1621,776.0^ in debt, — certainly near, if 
not actually beyond, the limit of its borrowing privilege, — and was arranging to 

21 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

has been selling bonds from time to time to pay current 
expenses — a broad, easy, spendthrift course, paved with 
engraved promises, which, if persisted in, must lead to 
ultimate loss of credit and bankruptcy." 

The mill's escape, then, from the local government burden, 
and the town's aggravation of that burden, come down on the 
families of working people, either as house-owners or as payers of 
the high rents current in the borough. 

HOMESTEAD AS A CIVIC UNIT 

It is with Homestead borough in 1907-S that this household 
study is primarily concerned, and in judging its public activities 
we must consider the limitations of borough resources noted, and 
the state restrictions upon borough authority, coupled with the 
industrial conditions which, as we shall see, circumscribe the 
effective citizenship of the mill workers. These have had a part 
in the failures in self-government which have characterized this 
community, along with many others in America. For while the 
town has grown steadily both in population and territory, civic 
interest and the well-being resulting from sound political organiza- 
tion have not kept pace with this growth. The school board and 
the board of health have the respect of the town, and men of 
standing are willing to serve on them. But the borough legisla- 
ture, a council of fifteen members, has been controlled in Home- 
stead by the type of small politician to be found in office wherever 
wholesale liquor dealers dominate politics and where the local 
government is used merely as a feeder for a state political machine.* 
Townspeople with whom I talked had apparently ceased to expect 
intelligent action on their part. Serious charges of dishonesty in 

float 145,000 additional bonds. The borough clerk's published estimates of muni- 
cipal assets total only 1509,874.28 — over 1 100,000 less than its total indebtedness. 
In authorizing the new bonds a resolution was adopted providing for the main- 
tenance of a sinking fund in the future. Homestead borough's system of public 
accounting is neither a svstem nor accounting; the borough treasurer was not only 
without a personal bond for several months recently, but he allowed several thou- 
sand dollars of certificates to go to protest while the books of the clerk showed that 
the treasurer had money of tne borough in his possession sufficient to pay them. 
Some years the borough auditors have not audited the accounts of the treasurer 
giving as a reason that the treasurer kept no books. 

* John F. Cox, the Republican "boss" of the borough, was in 1908 speaker 
of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, which has long since ceased to 
represent the people of Pennsylvania. 

22 



■'The Mansion" 
The company -owned home of the Superinlcndent. The purpoiie in providing il 



Phoia by Ilim 
The Street 
Homestead's only outdoor play^ound in 1907. These children, through no 
will of their own, live within sound of the mill. There was as yet no provision for 
their simplest recreational needs in the scheme of things laid out by their elders. 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

awarding bids for a garbage plant and of bribery in connection 
with other matters had been brought against members in 1904. 
While the testimony given at the investigation leaves no doubt 
in the mind of the reader that there had been crooked dealings, 
it was suppressed and led to no action. 

Apart from these allegations of dishonesty, the council has 
acquired a reputation for general inefficiency. It has been slow 
to insist on sanitary regulations necessitated by the increasing 
density of population. The first forward step from the primitive 
sanitation of village days was taken the year after the strike, when 
the streets were paved, and sewers and town water put in. A 
large percentage of the houses, especially the cheaper ones, 
nevertheless had neither running water nor toilets in them in 
1907-8.* 

The water supply of the borough is drawn from the Monon- 
gahela River. This stream is contaminated by the sewage of 
many small towns, as well as of two cities, McKeesport and Con- 
nellsville, the former with a population of about 40,000 and the 
latter of 10,000. In addition the water, some of which drains 
from the mines, has been used over and over for the processes of 
steel and coke manufacture, and is impregnated with chemicals, 
especially sulphuric acid. One Homestead resident said, "No 
respectable microbe would live in it." In this probably lies the 
explanation of why the typhoid death rate in Homestead has been 
low (6 deaths in 1907) in contrast to Pittsburgh. While these 
chemicals may destroy the bacteria to a considerable extent, they 
are not in themselves ingredients of good drinking water. This 
water was formerly pumped directly from the river into the 
reservoir, but in 1904-5 a number of wells were driven at a short 
distance from the river, with the idea that the water draining into 
them would thus be gravel-filtered before it was pumped into the 
reservoir. I was told, however, by a physician and a town official 
that these wells do not supply enough water, and that when they 
give out the reservoir is again filled directly from the stream. 
After this plant was constructed the water was analyzed by the 

*ri am told that there has been a marked increase in these sanitary improve- 
ments since. (See Appendix VI. p. 223. Report, Homestead Board of Health 
For comment on the rittsburgh Survey, see p. 224.) 

23 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

state board of health and reported safe for drinking. When I 
first went to live in Homestead I attempted to use water that had 
been boiled but not filtered, and found it exceedingly distasteful. 
Local physicians forbid people to drink the borough water unless 
it has been boiled and filtered, and many refuse to use it at all 
for drinking purposes. 

Most residents seemed to accept such a situation as a matter 
of course. Until recently conditions in Pittsburgh and McKees- 
port have been equally bad,"*" so that Homestead had no compelling 
nearby example to make its people realize that a satisfactory 
water system was possible. Instead of attempting to improve 
the town supply, many have drawn their drinking water from wells. 
No ordinances govern the location of these wells. In the courts 
of Slavic dwellings they are often near drains which carry waste 
water to the privy vaults, and when the pavements are broken 
this water must leak into the wells with but little filtration. 
Moreover, the board of health does not inspect the wells nor 
analyze the water from them, except at private expense. One 
outbreak of typhoid was traced directly to a well which had been 
used by a number of families because the water was supposed to 
be particularly good. 

Not only is the quality of the water supplied by the borough 
of Homestead poor, but there is no ordinance requiring running 
water in tenements. The borough clerk does not know how many 
houses are without it since he charges the water tax to each property 
holder in a lump sum with no indication as to the number of 
families supplied. The landlords, who seem to be influential with 
the council, naturally oppose such a requirement, and because 
of a shortage in dwelling houses have been under no pressure 
to put in water taps in order to rent the older or cheaper buildings. 
The men with larger wages and more influence move into houses 
which at least have running water in the kitchens. Immigrant, 
laborers continue to carry water in and out from a common 
hydrant in the court. In different sections, also, I found young 
American families who had no running water in the house, and 

* Munhall borough today purchases filtered water from the South Pitts- 
burgh Water Company. McKeesport treats and mechanically filters its water; 
Pittsburgh has built huge sand filtration beds. These plants have been put 
into operation within the last three years. 

24 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

who complained that they could not afford to move to better 
quarters. But though the husbands had votes and had friends 
with votes, it apparently never occurred to them to attempt to 
secure what they wanted through public action. 

More serious is the indifference of many of the residents, 
including the officials, to the evils resulting from unflushed 
privy vaults. Though a borough ordinance requires that vaults 
be connected with the sewer, it demands no adequate means of 
flushing them. Physicians felt that conditions in the Second 
Ward near the mill were so bad that the council should pass an 
ordinance requiring that all closets be placed within the house 
and properly flushed; yet no steps were taken to secure it. There 
are, furthermore, no building laws, except one which requires that 
buildings on the business streets shall be fireproof. In regulating 
overcrowding or other unsanitary conditions the board of health 
has authority to act in cases which can be classed as nuisances.* 
Under the authority thus granted it has insisted in many instances 
upon the cleansing of vaults, the destruction of particularly un- 
sanitary closets, and upon turning some of the boarders out of 
especially overcrowded tenements. Thus, in 1907 the sanitary 
officers reported that they had compelled the cleaning of 848 
yards and 176 cellars, and the opening of 254 closets; forced 
owners to abandon 42 outside closets and place new ones in houses; 
had 201 stopped sewers cleaned and 48 new sewer connections 
made; removed 64 boarders from overcrowded houses and com- 
pelled the cleaning of 48 rooms found in unsanitary condition 
and the windows of 161 rooms in residences and of 12 in schools. 
There are, however, no municipal regulations as to overcrowding, 
ventUation or sanitation that would create specific standards 
which all property owners might be compelled to meet. 

The death rate for 1907, 24 per 1000, indicated the need of 

* Borough Ordinance: — Whatever is dangerous to human life or health; 
whatever renders the air or food or water or other drinks unwholesome; and 
whatever building, erection or part or cellar thereof is overcrowded or not 
provided with adequate means of ingress and egress, or is not sufficiently 
supported, ventilated, sewered, drained, cleaned or lighted, are declared to 
be nuisances, and to be illegal, and every person having aided in creating or 
contributing to the same, or who may support, continue or retain any of them, 
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this ordinance, and also be liable for 
the expense of the abatement and remedy thereof. 

25 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

further sanitary precautions. Of the 416 deaths, 94, or 22.6 per 
cent, were from pneumonia and tuberculosis, and 65, or 1 5.6 per 
cent, were from marasmus, cholera infantum and convulsions. 
That is, 38.2 per cent of the total number of deaths were from 
diseases closely connected with lack of sufficient air, good food 
and intelligent care of children. 

Altogether, the public seems to take little active interest 
in the situation. The burgess,* in 1908, reported that the results 
of an investigation of overcrowding in the lodging houses, which 
he himself had made, aroused no general interest. 

Inefficient as the local government may be in dealing with 
sanitary problems, the general run of landlords give no evidence of 
a greater sense of responsibility for solving them. This is illustrated 
in the conditions permitted by the big private estate in the adjoin- 
ing borough of Munhall. The "run" in Munhall Hollow amounts to 
an open sewer bringing down filth and debris from other settle- 
ments farther up the valley through which its tributaries pass. 
In the hot summer months, the stench becomes almost unbearable, 
making it frequently necessary to haul lime in by the wagon load, 
to be dumped along the bed of the creek. When the rains are 
heavy in the spring, the valley is often so flooded that the water 
fills many of the cellars and even comes in much above the first 
floors of the houses at the lower end of the hollow. 

It may be well to note how this peculiar form of landlordism 
affects the home life of a considerable group of mill employes. The 
system of leasing followed by the Munhall Estate makes it more or 
less easy to shift responsibility for the continuance of primitive con- 
ditions in the Hollow. By the terms of the short-time leases, the 
tenants agree to pay a stipulated land rent, and all taxes and water 
rates in addition. The local rule is that public improvements, such 
as paving, sewers, etc., shall be assessed one-third against the bor- 
ough and two-thirds against abutting property owners; and natur- 
ally improvements are not made unless there is a demand among 
property owners for them. Since the agreement of the tenants to 
pay taxes includes the two-thirds of the cost of public improvements, 
they do not urge the building of public works which will benefit the 
Munhall Estate and might only tend to raise rents every ten years. 

* The burgess is the chief executive officer of the borough. 

26 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

The agent, on the other hand, maintains that the houses do 
not belong to the Estate, and that it is not responsible for bad 
conditions inside a tenant's lot and house; the land rents are 
low and the tenant should take enough interest in his home to 
improve it. Furthermore, the most serious sanitary problem, as 
the Estate sees it, and the one to be dealt with first, is the brook, 
both when it keeps within its banks and when it overflows them. 
The agent feels that this is not even a Munhall borough problem; 
for since the stream and its tributaries drain a wide area, the state 
of Pennsylvania is best fitted to act and the responsibility is laid 
at its door, and until it acts other things must wait. 

Munhall Borough in turn clears its skirts of responsibility 
for the Hollow on the ground that the land is private property 
and that its condition is the concern of the Munhall Estate. 
The borough has not yet regarded the condition of the Hollow 
as a possible menace to the health of the whole community. 

Meanwhile, a very appreciable proportion of the residents 
of Munhall, those with the scantiest resources of health and pocket- 
book, live in this damp, odorous gap between the hills, contending 
with disease, floods and an occasional fire. 

To turn from questions of public health to those of good 
order, we find the situation if anything less promising. The 
borough police force has for years failed to enforce the liquor laws. 
The man who was chief in 1908 formerly ran a gambling place 
under the guise of a club,'*' and while he was held to be capable, it 
was commonly reported that he owed his position to the liquor 
interests. I was told that the numerous "speakeasies" were left 
undisturbed as long as they bought from the wholesalers in power. 
In Munhall there are no saloons; in Homestead, over 50, eight 
being in a single block on Eighth Avenue next the mill entrance. 
A Homesteader summed up the situation in this way: "We have 
at least 65 saloons, 10 wholesale liquor stores, a number of beer 

* In 1908 this place, the Colonial Qub, was closed, and a new chief of police 
was elected. There is also a new burgess, Thomas L. Davis, superintendent of a 
mill in the Jones and Laughlin Steel G)., the largest independent plant in Pitts- 
burgh. He is a Welshman, but has lived in Homestead for many yeais, A general 
tonmg up of the police situation has accompanied his administration. Moreover, 
the Taxpayers' League, which was organized to carry on a good government cam- 
paign, succeeded in electing one member of the Council, M. P. Schooley, a man of 
personal independence and civic spirit. 

27 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

agents, innumerable 'speakeasies/ and a dozen or more drug 
stores," — and this in a community of 25,000. 

In common with the whole industrial district. Homestead 
suffers from a system of aldermanic courts which prevails through- 
out Pennsylvania, and is ill devised to serve other than rural com- 
munities. The system is especially open to petty tyranny and 
corruption in dealing with an immigrant population. All misde- 
meanors are tried before local "squires" or justices of the peace, 
who can impose fines or short terms of imprisonment, and can also 
act in civil suits involving amounts of less than I300. These jus- 
tices and the constables who serve under them are elected by the 
voters of the borough and serve for a period of five years. They 
receive no salary but are paid certain fees; for example, the fee 
for issuing a warrant is fifty cents and the same sum for a hearing 
in a criminal case or for taking bail in such a case. The constable 
receives one dollar for executing a warrant or for conveying the 
defendant to jail. These men are often uneducated, with no 
training in the law, arid dependent for income on the number 
of arrests made. Obviously, many fail to comprehend the impor- 
tance of dealing equitably with minor offenders. Of the cases 
of disorderly conduct reported in the newspapers from January 
I to March 31, 1908, there were 121 in which sentence was pro- 
nounced. Of these, 80 were either discharged, or fined costs or 
f i.oo and costs. Ten out of the 121 were sent to the jail or 
workhouse, and four of these were sent at their own request 
because they had no home to go to. Such treatment by magis- 
trates and constables of course has little deterrent effect. 

On one point the borough government cannot act because 
of its legislative limitations. In dealing with disorderly houses, 
for example, the owners can be arraigned only on a charge of 
disorderly conduct, for which a small fine or a short period in the 
workhouse is the maximum penalty. No local action can be 
brought against them on a criminal charge. In 1907 the district 
attorney of Allegheny County raided a number of houses in Home- 
stead. Without his co-operation, however, the borough is unable 
to take thoroughgoing measures to eradicate them. 

The limitations of borough autonomy are brought out 
in even sharper relief in its relation to an outside corporation, the 

28 



s C ROSSI KG Neax the Heart o 



An Unpaved Alley 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

raUroad. The ordinance, for example, which requires that the 
speed of trains inside borough limits shall be limited to six miles 
an hour, is almost totally disregarded. One fast train which goes 
through late in the evening, makes but little reduction in speed, 
merely sending out a prolonged shriek of warning to the passer-by. 
Two railroads run through Homestead parallel to the main street, 
one two blocks and one three blocks from it. Many children on 
their way to school must cross the tracks, and the same is true of 
all the traffic going from the main street to Pittsburgh. Yet until 
1908 the crossings, all level with the street, were without gates, and 
flagmen stationed at them left at 6 p. m.* The Pennsylvania 
courts had declared that a borough has no power to enact ordi- 
nances affecting outside corporations, can neither enforce a speed 
limit, nor require a railroad to put safety gates at the crossings 
nearest its business centers. 



HOMESTEAD'S ECONOMIC STATUS 

Enough has been said to indicate that politically the citizens 
of Homestead have not succeeded in creating an altogether 
wholesome sanitary or civic environment for their homes. Of 
equal influence upon household life is the economic development 
of a community of 25,000 people. Here we find the dominance 
of the one industry and the nearness of Homestead to Pittsburgh 
important factors. 

Homestead is now the market for the three boroughs and 
also for the outlying districts. Since the branch car lines into 
the surrounding country have made it possible for women living 
back from Homestead to shop here, the demand for good local 
stores has increased. The main thoroughfare. Eighth Avenue, is 
a typical two- and three-story business street with banks, real estate 
offices, numerous butcher shops and bakeries, grocery and furnish- 
ing stores, the latter displaying modish garments on sale for cash or 
"credit." A low white building bears the imposing sign "Home- 

*The Pittsburgh and Lake Erie tracks (New York Central System) have 
since been guarded with gates; the tracks <^ the Pittsburgh, Virginia and 
Charleston (Pennsylvania lines) are without gates. Gatemen and flagmen alike 
are as heretofore on duty at night. See Appendix VI 1, p. 233, for list of casualties. 

29 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

stead's Department Stores." At frequent intervals saloons and 
nickelodeons offer entertainment after their kind. The few 
shabby looking hotels, obviously making more money from their 
bars than from their rooms, are characteristic of any town so near 
a great city. The row of shops offers all the necessities of life and 
the housekeeper need not journey to the city unless she wishes. 
Pittsburgh, to be sure, is near. It takes only fifteen minutes on 
the railroad and forty-five on a street car, and as the fare in the 
latter case is only five cents, many women make their more im- 
portant purchases from the greater variety of goods and the bar- 
gains offered by the big stores. For the most part, however, 
they rely on the local dealers. 

Business interests have not adequately met certain other 
needs of the town, notably the provisions for amusement. These 
are meagre and in winter monotonous and not inspiriting. In 
summer opportunities for relaxation are afforded by two parks 
owned by the street railway company, each situated within a 
five-cent fare of the town. On the line to the suburb Lincoln 
Place is Homestead Park. Here is a baseball ground which a 
league of business men utilize for games after business hours; 
swings, roller skating and a dancing pavilion offer their attractions 
to the young. Kennywood Park, on the hills beyond Homestead 
toward Duquesne, is the liveliest outdoor pleasure ground within 
reach of Pittsburgh. It is the popular place for large picnics. 
There is, too, a small park on the hill in Homestead which was 
given to the town by Mr. Henry C. Frick. It is attractively 
laid out in lawns and flower beds and offers a refreshing glimpse 
of green to the passer-by. With these parks and the numerous 
trolley lines into the country, the needs of summer recreation 
are fairly provided for, but, as has been said, when winter comes 
people must return to a limited range of amusements. The 
number and character of these are affected by the nearness of 
Pittsburgh. People with leisure or those who desire a better 
class of entertainment naturally prefer to attend lectures, 
concerts and theatres in the city, where they can have the 
best. Most towns of the size of Homestead have a local 
theatre where fairly good companies come for a one-night 
stand. In Homestead, public amusements, aside from the enter- 

30 



THE MAKE-UP OF THE TOWN 

tainments offered by the Carnegie Library, have been limited 
largely to skating rinks and nickelodeons. 

Of the business enterprises, those which doubtless most 
closely affect the lives of the residents are the real estate com- 
panies. Real estate, except in Munhall, is largely in the hands 
of local firms, who recognize that they have a definite part in 
building up the town and who take a genuine pride in it. By 
making it possible for those with small incomes to buy houses 
and by creating a sense of confidence through fair dealing (such 
as considerateness when purchasers strike hard times), the real 
estate men have helped to increase the number of house-owners. 
Even in this form of enterprise, in which the business life of Home- 
stead is at its best, the resources of the cpmmunity have not been 
sufficient to meet the demands of its growth. Houses have not 
been built fast enough, and in 1907 rents were high and people 
found difficulty in securing suitable homes. 

The town's lack of economic self-dependence is serious and 
fundamental. A large machine manufactory and the steel mill 
employ practically all the inhabitants except those who provide 
for the needs of the workers. Financially, therefore. Homestead 
is almost entirely dependent on the outsiders who own these indus- 
tries, — non-residents who for the most part lack any interest in 
the future development of the town as distinguished from the 
mill. Some few may make gifts, — even notable ones, as in the case 
of the park, the library and the manual training school, — and 
small building loans may be granted employes; but the profits 
of the industries are not in any large sense re-invested in the 
town. 

The setting of the average Homestead household is now 
fairly complete before us. On the one hand is the inexorable mill, 
offering wages and work under such conditions as it pleases; 
on the other is a town politically failing to maintain a sound 
environment for its inhabitants and not possessed of independent 
business resources sufficient to serve them. 

It may well be questioned whether, with labor organization 
among the working people, the civic conditions would today be 
any better than they are. Democracy has pretty much the same 

31 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

weaknesses in small cities as in large. Certain it is, however, that 
the employers in Homestead who have assumed entire authority 
within the mill gates, have not assumed positive responsibilities 
toward the well-being of the community which has grown up out- 
side them. And of the indirect and too often negative influences 
of the industry upon the normal life of the community, there are, 
as we shall see, many evidences. 

In reviewing the relations of the mill to its employes in the 
first chapter, I pointed out that the strike, which shut the men 
off from any part in the terms of their work, left them still two 
vantage grounds from which they could control much that entered 
into everyday living,— the town and the home. We now see how 
and where the town fails to create those civic and sanitary con- 
ditions which should make for mental and physical efficiency. 
The problem then becomes largely one of the home. It is in the 
individual household, supported on the customary wages paid 
by the mill, that we must seek the meaning of life in Homestead. 



32 



PART II 
THE ENGLISH-SPEAKING HOUSEHOLDS 



CHAPTER III 

WORK, WAGES, AND THE COST OF 

LIVING 

IF YOU are near the mill in the late afternoon you will see a 
procession, an almost steady stream of men, each carrying 
the inevitable bucket, hurrying towards the great buildings 
for the night's work. A little later the tide turns and back come 
the day men, walking slowly and wearily towards home and 
supper. 

Thus the life of the town keeps time with the rhythm of the 
mill. This is brought out also by the way the town reckons dates 
from the year of the great strike; by the trend of its development, 
conditioned by dependence upon one industrial enterprise owned 
by outsiders; and most clearly of all by the part the mill work 
plays in the lives of the men themselves. 

While I shall not attempt to go into the technique of steel 
making, the general process can be stated in a few words. The 
crude iron brought to Homestead in huge ladles from the "Carrie" 
blast furnaces across the river, is taken to the open-hearth de- 
partment where it is put into the furnaces, mixed with scrap iron, 
ore, and certain chemicals, and brought to a melting heat. The 
open-hearth furnaces are then tapped and the metal is poured 
into ingot molds to cool. As the steel is needed for use the ingots 
are reheated and go to the "rolls," ponderous and wonderful 
machines, which turn out steel rails, sheets of plate for war vessels, 
beams for constructing skyscrapers. 

The conditions under which the work is carried on seem to 
an outsider fairly intolerable. The din in the great vaulted sheds 
makes speech hard. Men who have worked near the engines, 
though their oigans of hearing remain in physically gpod condi- 
tion, sometimes become almost oblivious to ordinary sound. 
Some work where the heat is intense; and before the open doors 

35 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

of furnaces full of white-hot metal they must wear smoked glasses 
to temper the glare. This heat, exhausting in summer, makes a 
man in winter doubly susceptible to the cold without. While for 
the men directing the processes the physical exertion is often not 
great, most of the laborers perform heavy manual toil. And 
everywhere is the danger of accident from constantly moving 
machinery, from bars of glowing steel, from engines moving along 
the tracks in the yard. The men, of course, grow used to these 
dangers, but a new peril lies in the carelessness that results from 
such familiarity, for human nature cannot be eternally on guard; 
men would be unable to do their work if they became too cautious. 
The nature of the work, with the heat and its inherent 
hazard, makes much of it exhausting. Yet these men for the most 
part keep it up twelve hours a day. It is uneconomical to have 
the plant shut down. In order that the mills may run practically 
continuously, the twenty-four hours is divided between two shifts. 
The greater number of men employed in making steel (as distinct 
from the clerical staff) work half of the time at night, the usual 
arrangement being for a man to work one week on the day and 
the next on the night shift. At the request of the men, the night 
turn is made longer, so that they can have the full evening to 
themselves the other week. Their hours on the day turn, there- 
fore, are from 7 a. m. to 5:30 p. m.; this leaves thirteen and 
one-half hours for the night shift. In certain departments the 
regular processes are continued straight through Sunday and the 
crews work the full seven days out of seven ; this is the case, for 
instance, in the blast furnaces, such as the Carrie group which 
are practically a part of the Homestead plant. The officials 
claimed in 1908 that in the rolling mills only necessary labor, such 
as repairing, was done on Sunday. Yet my colleague, Mr. Fitch, 
estimated that for Allegheny G)unty as a whole one steel worker 
out of five worked seven days in a week. Moreover, a majority 
of the men have to be on duty either Saturday night or Sunday 
night, thus breaking into the day of rest.* 

* Mechanics^ and day laborers in the yards work ten hours a day. For a 
full discussion of the extent of twelve-hour and Sunday work see Fitch, John A.: 
The Steel Workers, a companion volume in the series of The Pittsburgh Survey, 
p. 166 ff. For recent action of the United States Steel Corporation curtailing 
some kinds of Sunday work, see Appendix Vdl, p. 236. 

36 



WORK, WAGES, AND THE COST OF LIVING 

These are the demands which the mill makes on the Home- 
stead men. Even the details of family life depend on whether " the 
mister'" is working day turn or night turn; and the long shifts 
determine the part the steel worker plays in his household and 
also in his community. Financially, all time is marked oif by 
the fortnightly "pay Friday." On that night stores are open all 
the evening. The streets are filled with music, and the German 
bands go from saloon to saloon reaping a generous harvest when 
times are good. Beggars beside the gates of the mill bearing 
pathetic signs, " 1 am injured and blind — ^my eyes were destroyed 
by hot steel," and the full pocketbook is opened. It is the night 
for settling scores, and the bills which have accumulated for two 
weeks are paid and a fresh household account opened. 

The influence of mill work upon the home is most direct of 
all through the wages themselves, since wages, by limiting ex- 
penditures, set bounds to the attainment of a family's ideals. 

As a means of interpreting the household life of Homestead, 
therefore, I studied the everyday life of families who represented 
different earning and racial groups in the town's population. 
Ninety of the families visited kept a detailed account of all pur- 
chases for four weeks or more. The inquiry was not, however, 
primarily statistical, but rather a study at first hand of family 
life. It was not easy to become acquainted with the mill employes 
since there were no agencies, such as settlements or trade unions, 
to put a stranger confidentially in touch with them. Introduc- 
tions, secured mainly from clergymen, made it possible, however, 
to approach people, and paved the way for more familiar relation- 
ships as the weeks went on. Suspicion was often aroused and 
some refused to assist in the investigation. Keeping personal 
accounts is arduous (many of us have abandoned the praiseworthy 
habit), and it was not surprising that busy women declined to add 
this task to their burdens, or else failed to keep up the daily entries 
once they had begun. My 90 families were thus the residue of a 
much larger number; some of them dropped out; the entries of 
others could not be depended upon. Repeated visits to "see 
how the book is getting on," gave an opportunity to secure that 
intimate knowledge of family life which most of all was desired. 
One of my assistants, an American, became a resident of the town, 

37 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

living like other residents and sending her son to the Homestead 
schools. The young widow of a Slavic mill worker secured the 
budgets from the immigrants. As an interpreter in the Home- 
stead courts she held to a marked degree the confidence of her 
people, and from her I gained an insight into Slavic customs and 
points of view which was invaluable. The fairly complete picture 
of the households thus obtained made the budgets more significant 
and also threw light on the community life. 

TABLE 5. — ^analysis OF 90 BUDGET FAMILIES. — BY RACIAL GROUP 

AND NORMAL WEEKLY WAGE OF MAN* 



Racial Croup 


Number of 
famiiies 


Under 
1 12.00 


1 1 3.00- 


I15.OO- 
1 1 9.99 


I20.00 
and over 


Percent 

earning 

under 

1 1 3.00 


Slav . 

Eng. sp. Eur.f . 
Nat. white . 
Colored 


29 
23 


31 
I 

• * 

2 


3 

6 

4 
9 


4 

t 

8 


2 
2 

4 


72.4 

77 
0.0 

87 


Total . 


90 


24 


31 


33 


23 


36.6 



* For detailed analysis, see Appendix I, Table 1, p. 300. 

tThis group included English. Scotch, Irish and German families. 

A few words of personal description from these individual 
studies will illustrate the make-up of the representative groupings 
of the table. The men earning less than |i2 a week were largely 
Slavic day laborers, many of them newcomers, although three 
had been here fifteen years or more. Some were lately married, 
starting life in a single room, and some had families of four or five 
children to maintain. 

The group of men earning |i2 to 1 14.99 ^ week included 
more varied types; such as a middle-aged Englishman, semi- 
skilled, whose thrifty wife was managing on this wage to bring 
up their six children; two Americans with equally large families 
(one of six children, the other of seven), whose work also demanded 
little skill, and who also had wives who to some extent made up 
for the low wages by skilful housekeeping; a third American, 
unambitious, who held a poorly paid "pencil" job,* and who 

*Qerical or semi<lerica] position. 

38 



WORK, WAGES, AND THE COST OF LIVING 

already counted on his fourteen-year-old son to help provide for 
the household; a colored teamster, who with three children to 
support, called on his wife to earn a little, by cleaning for her 
neighbors; and, in contrast to these, a Slav who had worked 
seven years in the mill and was now an engineer. This group and 
the succeeding one were drawn from the better paid day men and 
the lower paid tonnage men. 

Among the steel workers earning I15 to 1 19.99 were two 
Slavs and a Scotchman who were helpers at the open-hearth 
furnaces, an Irish machinist, one American with a good "pencil 
job" and another who did semi-skilled work at the rolls. The 
part which personal choice plays in spending when incomes are 
large enough to give some margin, was illustrated by the families 
of the men in this group. Here, an American on the clerical staff 
of the mill with a clever wife and two small children, saved little, 
for they had chosen instead to have an attractive five-room house ; 
there, a Slav with the same income and the same sized family lived 
in two rooms which were shared by two lodgers, and already had a 
bank account of I400; another, an Irish machinist, drank up 
part of his wages, and his wife had not the gift of home-making. 

The group of men earning |2o and over were good workmen 
and good providers as well. For instance, one was a Slav who 
came to America over twenty years ago to begin life here as a 
miner, and who now is a citizen and has a comfortable four-room 
home; another, a Scotchman, intelligent and interesting, whose 
home is a model of thrift, and whose four children are to have the 
best that American public schools can give. Nine out of 15 of 
the steel workers in this group were tonnage men. 

There are two main factors which determine the standards 
of living of such wage-earning families: one, external circum- 
stances which the family cannot control, such as money-wages, 
location, educational and social opportunities; the other, the 
ideals which it is continually struggling to reach. No account 
of individuals or families which fails to take both external cir- 
cumstances and personal ideals into consideration can be complete; 
both are necessary to reveal the latent power in the people of a 
community. The problem presents itself to the mind of the 

39 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

wage-earner in simpler English: "How much can I make? What 
shall I spend it for ?" As the second question is always that of a 
choice of wants, the decision as to which seem worth working and 
paying for is perhaps the clearest mark of a family's mental 
development. If we collect data as to family expenditures and 
compare the answers thus made to these two questions, we can 
estimate the character and self-dependence of a laboring com- 
munity; and, in turn, can measure what home life the wage- 
earner's pay makes possible. What in the first place then are the 
wages paid in Homestead ? 

As a background to the study of the 90 budget families, 
we were fortunate in securing an authoritative statement regard- 
ing the men employed in the Homestead plant in March, 1907, 
classified by racial group, degree of skill, etc. Of the total 6,772 
men, 1,266, or 18.7 per cent, were skilled; 1,556, or 23 per cent, 
semi-skilled; and 3^950, or 58.3 per cent, unskilled. 



TABLE 6. — ^MEN EMPLOYED IN THE HOMESTEAD MILL IN MARCH, 
1907. NUMBER AND PERCENTAGES. — BY RACIAL GROUPS AND 
DEGREE OF SKILL 



Racial Group 


SkiUed 


Simi'SkilUd 


UnskiUid 


Total 


Perceai 

UnskilUd 


Slav . . . . 
Eng. sp. Eur. 
Nat. white . 
Colored 


80 
398 

31 


^52 
35B 
707 

32 


3064 
367 


3603 
1 123 
1935 

131 


8$.o 
33.7 

23.4 
56.3 


Total . 
Per cent 


1366 

18.7 


1556 
33.0 


3950 
58.3 


6773 





A careful study of wages showed that unskilled laborers 
received | .i6i an hour for a ten- or twelve-hour day; the semi- 
skilled, including both day and tonnage workers, earn I2.00 or 
I3.00 a day, and the skilled, I2.50 to I5.00, a small percentage 
earning more than that.* 

* Beginning May i. iQio, the prevailing rate for common labor was raised 
to \y\ cents an hour in Homestead. This was part of a general advance put into 
effect by the United States Steel G)rporation, equal, it was announced, to an 
average of somewhat over 6 per cent on the rates previously paid. 

40 



WORK, WAGES, AND THE COST OF LIVING 

These figures represent earnings, moreover, at the height of 
a long period of prosperity. The first and most important fact 
revealed by them is that the pay of over half the men in the 
Homestead mills in 1907 was that of common laborers. Eighty- 
five per cent of the Slavs, 23.4 per cent of the native whites, 
32.7 per cent of the English-speaking Europeans and 56.2 per cent 
of the colored were classed as unskilled, receiving less than |i2 a 
week. This will reveal the situation as it actually is to those who 
have heard only that wages in the steel industry are high. Its 
reputation for big wages is based on the earnings, especially in 
the early years of the industry, of the rollers, heaters and other 
skilled men, a fraction of the total force. The new machine 
processes call for an increasing number of unskilled positions, 
and however much the personnel of these workers shifts, this 
group with a low maximum wage must be considered a constant 
factor in Homestead life. 

Even among the English-speaking employes, unskilled work 
with its low wage is not always a merely temporary stage in mill 
work, a period of apprenticeship, to be endured until time and 
promotion bring a larger income. For instance, among the men 
over forty years of age in the families keeping budgets, 16 earned 
over f 1; and 12 earned less than that sum. About a fourth of 
the total number of those earning less than I15 were over forty. 
Of the men earning |i 2 to 1 14.99 ^ week, the six English-speaking 
Europeans were on an average forty-five years old; the four 
native whites, forty-five. 

A second fact is scarcely less distinctive from an economic 
point of view. Family life in Homestead depends for its support 
almost entirely upon the men's earnings; women and chidren 
rarely work outside the home since the steel plant and machine 
works cannot use them and there are no other industries in the 
town. Of the 90 budget families there were only nine in which 
the income was supplemented by women's wages, and even in 
these, with the exception of three colored households where the 
women partly supported the family by days' work, the money 
thus gained formed only a small percentage of the income.* On 
the other hand, the mill offers work at good pay to young men, 

*See Appendix I, Tables 3 and 3, p. aoi. 

41 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

and the husband's wage is frequently supplemented by that of the 
son. Among the native white families, the husband and son in 
normal times contributed 92.3 per cent of the total income; 
among the English-speaking Europeans 98.7 per cent. 

Among the immigrant families, however, and among all 
those in which the man's earnings fell within the day labor rate, 
our budget studies disclosed that another and exceptional source 
of support was resorted to; namely, payment from lodgers. 
It is upon the women of the household that this burden falls. 
In families where the man's wage was normally less than |i2 a 
week, more than half found it necessary to increase their slender 
income in this way. What this means in congestion and in lower 
standards of living we shall see in a discussion of the Slavic house- 
holds. 

The third distinctive fact in the Homestead situation in 
regard to earnings has been the steadiness of employment. Regu- 
larity no less than rate of wages determines what a family's annual 
receipts amount to, and the family adjusts its grade of living more 
or less closely to this expected income. I was told that from the 
time of the depression of 1 893 up to November i , 1907, the mills had 
run almost without a break. Tonnage men who are paid by out- 
put of course feel temporary lulls, but if a given department in a 
mill is not working full time, the day men in that department 
receive a full day's pay as long as the mill runs at all. 

How far income standards which are thus rendered stable 
by regular work in the Homestead mills have been jeopardized 
by rate cuts which may or may not be justified by changes in 
process, but against which the men have no check, and what 
intense efforts they put forward to increase their speed and keep 
their weekly earnings up to former levels, are issues of labor admin- 
istration which are gone into by my colleague, Mr. Fitch.* That 
most of the men will receive a full fortnight's pay regularly year 
in and year out, has given a sense of security even in the face of 
repeated reductions in the rates. It has created a basis for the 
development of common standards of living which would be 
impossible where employment was fluctuating. 

♦ Fitch. John A.: The Steel Workers, Chap. XIV. 

42 



WORK, WAGES, AND THE COST OF LIVING 

In Homestead, then, we have a community where half the 
workmen are day laborers, where families are almost solely 
dependent on the man's earnings, and where a man's earnings 
one month are fairly like those of the next. Therefore, if the period 
covered by the investigation had been a normal one, we could 
have put opposite each other a family's usual earnings, and what 
the money went for, as shown by account books, and have drawn 
direct and simple deductions as to the relation between wages 
and costs of living for each group. An industrial depression pre- 
vented this. The period covered extended from October i, 1907, 
to April I, 1908. Within six weeks after the first budgets were 
started the trouble began, and by the middle of December the 
mills were running only about half time, a situation which lasted 
during the remainder of the investigation. Incidentally, this 
change brought us special data showing how people met hard 
times. But, as few families were receiving full wages, many 
household accounts dropped below what would have been normal 
for them. 

Recognition of this situation called for a special treatment of 
the budget material as a whole. While the depression, as we have 
seen, prevented statistical deductions as to how families ordinarily 
spent their wages, it did not seriously conflict with a main purpose 
of the economic side of the study. This was to find out what ele- 
mentary standards of living are possible on an income say of |i2 a 
week in Homestead. To ascertain this, in my major tables I aban- 
doned all reference to normal wages and divided the families ac- 
cording to the amounts they actually expended per week during the 
period studied, including what was purchased on credit. Rents 
and the prices of food stuffs did not change during this period, and, 
with these constant, |i2 a week would, in general, buy the same 
whether the payments were made out of the lowered earnings of a 
family in slack times, or out of the total wages of a low paid 
man when the mills were running full. As all accounts were dis- 
carded in which there was a discrepancy of five per cent between 
income and expenditure during the five to eight weeks studied, 
the entries showed accurately what the families spent for this 
period, and afforded a basis of fact to correct and strengthen the 
impressions received in the more general survey of the situation. 

43 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

The study of much larger groups of families carried over more 
representative periods would be essential for an adequate inter- 
pretation of the standards of living in such an industrial town.* 
But as a simple gauge of the influence of mill town employment 
upon home life, the items of our budgets, — rent, meals, clothing, 
help for the housekeeper, and amusements — served to indicate 
how far earnings will go either for the unskilled immigrant, who 
seeks a foothold in this country, or for the American, who looks 
to his work in the steel industry as a permanent basis for a liveli* 
hood.f 

These budgets, moreover, reflect the character of the working 
people of Homestead. No less important than the question of 
how much people spend is the question of what they buy and more 
important than all, what they want. To learn these things we 
must catch something of the spirit of their homes, for no account 
of household expenditure, however detailed, can in itself reveal the 
struggle people make to attain their ideals. And without knowing 
these ideals we cannot judge how much the limitations which any 
system of wages imposes concern society. 



TABLE 7. — 90 BUDGET FAMILIES. — BY RACIAL AND EXPENDITURE 



GROUP 



Racial Grtmp 


Under 
1 13.00 


I12.00- 
I14.99 


I15.00- 
I1Q.99 


|3O.0O 

and over 


Tolal 


Slav 

Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Native White . . 
G)lored. 


14 
3 

4 
u 


5 

4 

1 

6 


7 

5 


3 

3 

12 

I 


39 

>3 
33 


Total . 


32 


16 


33 


IQ 


90 



* The colored group form less than two per cent of the working force in the 
mill. They are included, therefore, not as numerically significant, but as affording 
interesting points for comparison with the Slavs. 

t For statement as to the methods of inquiry and statistical treatment em- 
ployed, see Appendix I, p. 187. 



44 



WORK, WAGES, AND THE COST OF LIVING 



TABLE 8. — AVERAGE WEEKLY EXPENDITURES OF 90 BUDGET 
FAMILIES IN 1907, AMOUNTS AND PERCENTAGES. — BY CHIEF 
ITEMS OF EXPENDITURE AND RACIAL GROUP 



Raciai Gtoup 



Colored . 

Slav . 

Ene. Sp. Eur . 

Nat. White . 



her of 
Fam- 
ilies 



33 

"3 
35 



Aver- 

pendi- 
ture 



1 1 2.39 
13.09 

16.97 
ao.47 



Rent 



"8 






I2.43 
2.00 

3.9 1 

3.16 



19.6 

»5-3 
17.1 

«5-4 



Food 






I4.8439.I 

5-98|457 
7.55I44.5 
7-4436.3 



Fuel 



"8 






1.83 6.6 
2.9 
2.7 
4i 



.38 



Insurance 



1.03 
1.21 



I 



6.1 

5-9 



Other 



5.03 
7.83 






27.5 
29.5 
39.6 
38.3 



TABLE 9. — ^AVERAGE WEEKLY EXPENDITURES OF 90 BUDGET 
FAMILIES, AMOUNTS AND PERCENTAGES. — BY CHIEF ITEMS OF 
EXPENDITURE AND EXPENDITURE GROUP 



lixpendHure 
Group 



liiuler9i3.oo 
f 1 3.00^ 1 4.99 
f1S.oo-l19.99 
fio.oo and over 



Num- 
ber oj 
Fam- 
ilies 



5» 

16 

23 

19 



Aver- 

E- 

pendi 
ture 



I9.17 
13.33 

'759 
35.56 



Rent 



^8 



1 



91.8830.5 



3.39 

2.73 
3-73 



f7.2 

15.5 
«4.5 



Food 



1 



Fuel 



94.i6'45.3 
5.8644.0 

7.11I40.4 

9.38136.7 



$.38 
.90 






4.1 

3.8 

3-5 



Insurance 



I 

X 

I .70 

•5» 
1.05 

1.86 



1 



3.8 

6.b 
7-3 



OlHER 



$3.05 

3.89 
6.03 

9.68 



I 



33.3 
29.3 
34-2 
37-9 



I'ABLE 10. — AVERAGE WEEKLY EXPENDITURES OF JJ HOUSE-RENT- 
ING FAMILIES,* AMOUNTS AND PERCENTAGES. — BY CHIEF ITEMS 
OF EXPENDITURE AND EXPENDITURE GROUP 



Expenditure 
Group 



Under 1 13.00 
1 1 2.00-$ 1 4.99 
f 1 5.00-919.99 
920.00 and over 



Num- 
ber of 
Fam- 
ilies 



38 

15 
19 
<5 



Aver 
age 

weekly 

Ex- 
pendi- 
ture 



99.08 
13.33 
17.65 
36.39 



Rent 



93.15 

2.45 
3-3 1 
4.72 



1 



18.5 
18.8 
18.0 



Food 



"8 

X 



93.81 
5.64 
7.04 



t 



Fuel 



43.0 9.38 
43.6I .73 
3991 .61 



9.8837.6 .93 






4.2 
5.4 

3-5 

3.5 



Insurance 



; .66 

•55 
1.07 

».95 






7.3 

6.0 
7.4 



Other 



92.<^ 

3.88 






33.9 

29.3 

3i.9 
33.5 



* Of the 90 families, 13 owned their dwellings. 

45 



CHAPTER IV 
RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

THE type of house available at a given time in any com- 
munity, whether the tenement of the city or the frame 
cottage of the country, is largely determined by other fac- 
tors than individual preference. While in clothes, in food, and 
in amusements, personal likings play a large part, in housing 
a certain common standard is accepted to which most people con- 
form. Especially is this true in a growing mill town like Home- 
stead, where in prosperous years there has been a dearth of houses 
for rent. There is little choice in the kind of dwelling a working- 
man's family can secure, and yet the house itself is a determining 
circumstance in shaping the character of the home life. 

As in most American towns of the last century's building, the 
original lay-out of Homestead had little to commend it. Never- 
theless, the plan made when the Homestead Bank and Life Insur- 
ance Company plotted its first lots has been carried out in the 
newer parts of Munhall and West Homestead, as well as in the cen- 
tral borough. 1 1 is the customary checker-board plan, ill adapted 
to the gullied hill slopes and triangular flats of a river bend. The 
streets run parallel from east to west, intersected almost at right 
angles by those running up and down the hill. The only variation 
from this general scheme is found in one or two streets in Munhall, 
which follow the beds of old water courses and have kept the curve 
of the stream. The lots in Homestead are usually narrow, not more 
than 20 or 25 feet in width. Originally, there was ample room be- 
tween the streets for each house to have a good garden in the rear, 
with plenty of air and freedom, and in the more open parts of the 
town these gardens are still a source of pleasure. But in other sec- 
tions they are being built upon and rear houses are multiplying 
along the alleys which were cut between parallel streets to give ac- 
cess to back doors. In the district nearest the mill, the alleys are 

46 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

paved and are built up almost solid. The houses here, though still 
only two stories high, cover so large a proportion of the land as 
to limit the amount of air and light within doors, as well as the 
space left for the children to play outside. This region is occupied 
by the Slavs and will be described in a later section. 

The hill section, which forms the upper part of all three 
boroughs, has not suffered to such an extent from the overcrowd- 
ing of the land, but most of the alleys, still unpaved, are littered 
with rubbish and lined with outhouses and sheds. Here and there 
are forlorn and often unsanitary dwellings, hardly more than 
shanties. Such hill-side conditions as yet tell more against the 
sightliness of the town than against its healthfulness. 

There are in scattered sections attractive residences belong- 
ing to business and professional men ; but in those parts of Home- 
stead where the working people live, few evidences are to be found 
of attempts to make dwellings attractive architecturally. They 
are of that dreary type of small, closely-set frame structure so 
characteristic of a rapidly growing industrial community. The real 
estate companies, in their desire for economy, naturally plan their 
houses on an inexpensive and, as far as possible, uniform scale, and 
rising land values lead to the use of narrow lots. The common type 
of house has four rooms, two on a floor, the front door opening di- 
rectly on the street. The stairway to the second story occupies a 
narrow hall between the two lower rooms. Some of the houses 
contain five rooms. In a row of such houses the dining room, 
back of the "front room," is lighted only by a window on the 
narrow passageway between houses, and is never reached by direct 
sunlight. The monotony of street after street is broken only by 
the bits of lawn and flowers in front. Where there are yards in 
the rear, they serve as play places for the children, and offer rest 
and refreshment to the grownups. As the men are usually too 
tired to enjoy working in them, the women often assume the task of 
keeping the flowers and grass in order and find it a welcome change 
from the hot kitchen. One garden, hardly 20 feet square, had 
along one fence a thick row of violets that the daughter had 
brought from the woods; a pink "bleeding heart" and several 
flourishing rose bushes grew beside the house. The square in the 
center, where grass was being coaxed to grow, was reserved for 

47 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

the drying of clothes. The house contained but five rooms, and 
with seven children the parents rejoiced in the freshness and quiet 
of the yard in the evening. The garden pictured on the opposite 
page, luxuriant with shrubs and flowers and vegetables, formed a 
fine playground for children, puppies, and Belgian hares. 

On the hill the gardens have a substantial aspect. One 
family utilized an empty lot, and the beans, squashes, and other 
vegetables raised there so decreased the family's cost of living 
that they declined to keep an account since they said it would 
not fairly represent their table expenses. An item of sixty 
cents for garden seeds in the early spring in another family's bud- 
get gave promise of both pleasure and profit. Many of the 
families also save a good deal by keeping hens. On one visit, 
hearing a curious noise beneath my chair, 1 looked down to find a 
friendly chicken which had come for a feast of crumbs. One 
woman kept a few hens to provide fresh eggs for her husband's 
bucket. After his death she found that by selling them she could 
add a little to a slender income. The gardens too develop neigh- 
borliness of spirit, since the women often discuss over the fences 
their horticultural ambitions. 

In view of the unenviable reputation of "company houses" 
everywhere, it is interesting to note that those owned and rented 
by the Carnegie Land Company in Munhall are the best houses for 
the money in the town. Though built in solid rows and wearisomely 
uniform they are immaculately neat, with squares of lawn and 
shade trees in front. These houses, which consist of five small 
rooms, neatly finished, with running water in the house, but with no 
bathroom, rent for |i i a month. Electric lights are furnished at 
a cost of I1.50 a month. Another company row contains four- 
room houses, without lights or running water, which rent for 18.50. 
Though some families feel a lack of privacy in these unbroken 
blocks there is always a waiting list. Throughout Munhall, the 
cottages vary more in design and the lawns are larger than in the 
other boroughs. Sixteenth Avenue, for instance, is an example of 
effective, inexpensive house-building. 

Bearing these general conditions in mind, the facts in regard 
to the houses of a few of the budget families will give us a back- 
ground for the tables to follow. They will suggest how individual 

48 



) Possibilities ix Houestead — I 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

and racial preferences modify the general tendency to pay more 
rent as income increases. 

Davis.'*' Colored. Man, wife and four children. Man 
a hod carrier with irrefi^ular work at I3.00 a day. They live 
in a small dilapidated house, built in the middle of a lot on 
an alley. Water in yard. Unsewered closets emptied by town 
on application. Three rooms. I7.50 a month. 

Chismer. Slav. Man, wife, two small children. Man 
a laborer in mill, |i .65 a day. House on alley, no yard, water 
from hydrant in court, unfiushed toilet. Two rooms. |8.oo 
a month. 

Chech. Slav. Man, wife, two children and two board- 
ers. Man earns I15 a week in the mill. Water and toilet in 
yard. Two rooms each about 1 5 feet square. |8.oo a month. 

Jones. American. Man, wife, seven children. Man 
earns |i7 a week in the mill. Small frame house on alley. 
Practically no yard. Water in house. Toilet in yard. 
Three rcx)ms. |ii a month. 

McCarthy. Irish. Man, wife, four children. Man 
earns |i6 a week in mill. Half a double house, unattrac- 
tive. Small yard. Water and toilet in yard. Four rooms. 
|i2 a month. 

Brown. American. Man, wife, five children. Man 
earns |i 5 a week and son I5.00 a week in the mill. Small 
frame house, very close to mill. Small porch directly on 
street. Small yard. Running water in house, toilet in yard. 
Five rcx)ms. f 12.50 a month. 

Schmidt. German-American. Young couple, one 
child. Man earns I50 a month. Small house in row. No 
hall. Water from hydrant on porch used by several families. 
No yard. Three rooms. I13 a month. 

Kocis. Slav. Here twelve years. Man, wife, three 
children, five boarders. Man earns 1 10.80 a week. Fairly 
large yard. Water and closet in yard. Four rooms, one 
dark. I14 a month. 

Evans. American. Man, wife, one child, lodger. Man 
earns l3^oo a day. Attractive house. Small porcn. Good 
yard. Toilet and water in house. Four rooms .| 1 5 amonth. 

Lewis. Colored. Man, wife, three children, the oldest 
six. Man earns I2.10 a day in the mill. Rather shabby but 
comfortable frame house on outskirts of town. A large 
garden, which they cultivate. Water from pump in yard. 
Closet not connected with sewer. Five rooms. |i6 a month. 

* The names used throughout this book are fictitious. 
4 49 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Smith. American. No children. Man earns |i8 
a week in mill. Half of double house with only narrow path 
at side. Toilet and running water in house. Five rooms. 
|2o a month. 

Burns. Scotch. Man, wife, two sons at work, three 
children in school. Total income about |^o a week. Frame 
house, only a narrow path on each side. Small porch directly 
on street. Good yard behind. Water in house, closet in 
yard. Six rooms. I24 a month. 



Seventy-seven of the 90 budget keepers were tenant families 
Their expenditures for rent during the period studied are shown 
in Table 1 1 . 

table II. — ^average amount of rent per week paid by the 
77 house-renting families. — BY expenditure and racial 
group 





Under 

1 13.00 


1 1 3.00- 
* 14.99 


I15.00- 
*i9.99 


I20.00 
AND Over 


Average 
OP All 


Racial Group 


T8 

11 

II 

"3 

3 

3 

38 

• • 


Aver' 

age 

RetU 


|| 

6 

3 

1 

• • 


Aver- 
age 
RetU 


t'i 
1^ 

1 

3 

6 
19 

• • 


Aver- 

age 

RetU 


1 
3 

I 

• • 


Aver- 

age 

RetU 


11 

23 

37 
10 

"7 
77 

m • 


Aver- 
age 
Rent 


Colored 
Slav. . 

Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Nat. White 


|3.33 
1.64 
3.38 
3.85 


»3-37 
3.41 

3.50 

3.00 


^'77 
3.75 
3-99 


I3.50 
3.63 

5.56 


*2.43 

3.78 
4.65 


Total families . 
Average rent 


I3.I5 


• • 


• • 

»3.3i 


• « 

U'7^ 


ft • 

I3.00 



With a few exceptions, there is of course in each racial 
group a general increase in rent according to the amount 
of income. But in each expenditure class the Slav spends less 
rent on the average than do the English-speaking Europeans and 
Americans. In the lowest and the highest groups the expenditure 
of the other whites is more than double that of the Slavs. The 
low expenditure for rent among a majority of the Slavic and 
colored families goes hand in hand with overcrowding and un- 
sanitary tenements, a fact borne out not only by the vivid im- 
pression of squalor received by the chance visitor to the courts 

50 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

and alleys in which many of them live, but by a scrutiny of the 
accommodations which they secure for themselves.'*' Taking the 
room as the unit and stating the proposition roughly for all 90 
families, in nearly three out of five of the older immigrant families 
there was but one person to a room. The same was true in four 
out of five of the native white families, but of only one out of five 
of the Slavic. Fourteen families out of 17 of those in which there 
were three persons to the room were Slavs.f 

The fact that the Slavs and the colored people come nearest 
in their expenditures suggests that the housing standard first 
adopted by the former is very like that of the working Negro. 

Turning to the size of the dwelling, 10 out of 13 of the older 
immigrant stocky lived in houses with four or more rooms, 
and 22 out of 25 of the native white; moreover, 10 of the 
latter had houses of six rooms. On the other hand, one-half of 
the Slavic and colored families lived in one- or two-room houses. 
It was among these groups in the budget families, and only among 
these, that such small homes were found. This was a level to 
which the mill workers who had lived here since before the strike 
did not go. It was a level still more desperately depressed by 
overcrowding in the lodging houses of the Slavic courts. 

But while thus recognizing that racial standards modify 
rental expenditures, an economic analysis of these same budgets 
shows that the determining factor is wages. The two races 
spending the smallest per cent for rent are those with the lowest 
incomes. They give too small a margin for the family to consider 
how desirable a better home would be. As it is, these poorest 
families put a greater proportion of their expenditures into rent 
(Table 13) than do any of the others, the percentage being a 
third higher, 23.7 per cent as against 18.5 per cent, 18.8 per cent, 
18 per cent. 2 

* Four out of five of the native white, and three out of five of other Euro- 
peans had running water in the house, as against less than two out of Hvt for colored 
or Slavs. Only tnree houses out of 6$ occupied by families other than native whites 
contained indoor toilets, while 13 out of 35 houses occupied by native whites were 
provided with them. 

t Appendix I, Table 5, p. 303. 

t Appendix I, Table 7, p. 303. 

} These percentages for rent are not widely different from those ffiven by 
Mr. Qiapin in his study of conditions among tenement families in New YorkGty 

5> 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

TABLE 12. — expenditure FOR RENT OF 77 HOUSE-RENTING FAMI- 
LIES. AVERAGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EX- 
PENDITURE. — BY RACIAL GROUP 



Racial Group 


Number of 
Families 


Average 

tVeeldy 

Expenditure 


Average 

Expenditure 

for Rent 


Percent 
for Rent 


Slavs . 

Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Nat. White 
Colored 


27 
10 

17 
23 


1 12.93 
17.90 
21.72 
12.39 


3.78 
4.65 

2.43 


16.6 
21.1 

19.6 



TABLE 13. — EXPENDITURE FOR RENT OF 77 HOUSE-RENTING FAMI- 
LIES. AVERAGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EX- 
PENDITURE. — BY EXPENDITURE GROUP 



Expenditure 
Group 


Number of 
Families 


Average 

Weekly 

Expenditure 


Average 

Expenditure 

for Rent 


Per cent 
for Rent 


Under |i2. 00 . 
I12.00-I14.99 . 
J15.00-I19.99 . 
f 20.00 and over 


28 

«5 
19 

«5 


»9.o8 
13.23 
17.65 
26.29 


I2.15 

2.45 
3-3 » 
4.72 


^2-7 

18.5 
18.8 
18.0 



Rent in the 77 Homestead tenant families rises steadily 
(Table 13) from an average of I2.1 5 per week paid by the laborer 
who works for I1.65 per day to the I4.72 per week paid on an 
average by the skilled steel worker. How far overcrowding 
decreases in proportion to the extra expenditure can be summed 
up briefly :* Of the 48 families in the group spending under 1 1 5 (in- 
cluding the house owners), 26, or over one-half, were living with 
two or more persons to the room; of the 42 families spending more 
than I15, only 14, or one-third, had two or more persons to the 

where families with an income of I500 to (599 spend 25.9 per cent for rent, and 
those with an income of $1000 to $1099 spend 18.1 per cent. Chapin, Robert 
Coit; The Standard of Living among Workingmen's Families in New York Qty, 
p. 70. (New York, Charities Publication Committee, 1909. Russell Sage Founda- 
tion Publication.) The percentages are far in excess of the figures given for normal 
families by the U. S. Bureau of Labor which reports 16 per cent for 170 families 
with an income of {800 to Iqoo, and only 1 2 per cent for families with an income 
of I750 to 1 1 100. Eighteenth Annual Report of the Commissioner of Labor, 
1903. 

* Appendix I, Table 6, p. 202. 

52 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

room; and of the 19 families spending over |2o, only five, or one- 
fourth. Of the 21 budget families who lived in two rooms, over 
half had less than |i2 per week to spend; of the five who lived 
in one room, none had over that sum.* 

These figures do not sustain the oft repeated declaration that 
people would not live better if they could. With the lowest paid 
workers spending a larger per cent of their weekly fund for rent 
than the better-to-do, and with overcrowding nearly absent in the 
better paid groups, we have tangible indications that overcrowd- 
ing is ordinarily a result of financial necessity, rather than of 
either hoarding or spendthrift habits. I am speaking here of the 
families who rent small houses or let out their rooms, rather than 
of the lodgers who room with them. When income permits, most 
families secure room enough to make a genuine home life possible. 
How long people would maintain this standard in the face of pro- 
longed hard times it is difficult to say. Since the depression of 
1908 was recognized as temporary, landlords were lenient and 
waited for their rents. Residents and real estate men, however, 
told of many families who moved to smaller tenements, and the 
unusual sight of "to let" signs among the better houses bore wit- 
ness to the change. A couple who had considered a I25 five- 
room house none too spacious, sublet two rooms for |8.oo to 
another couple who had formerly occupied a three-room |i2 tene- 
ment. This process, which was going on throughout the town 
during the months of the depression, shows that rent is an item 
that is cut down whe;i economy becomes necessary. As it hap- 
pened, none of the budget families moved during this period, and 
the expenditures for rent given are those of normal times. 

To turn from overcrowding to sanitation, 1 often found that 
in a house which had abundance of light and air the water faucet 
was located on the back porch instead of in the kitchen, and that 
even when there was running water in the house the only toilet 
was a privy vault in the back yard. These defects, though due in 
part to the political inaction which has resulted in a bad water 
supply and to inadequate housing ordinances, constitute partly 
an individual problem, involved in the relation of landlord to 
tenant. 

* Appendix I, Table 8, p. 203. 

53 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



How far property owners were in a position to disregard the 
desires of tenants, is indicated by the fact that when I came to 
Homestead in the fall of 1907, there were few houses for rent in the 
whole town. My impression of the general situation was that the 
under-^upply enabled landlords to let unimproved dwellings at 
profitable rentals without having to put them in good order; 
and that these sanitary deficiencies were submitted to by many 
people, not because they did not desire better conditions, but 
because they were unable to pay the higher rates demanded for 
improved homes. The average rent per month per room of the 
houses occupied by the 90 budget families was I3.93. The average 
rent per month of houses in the courts, where conditions were ex- 
ceedingly bad, was but I3.63 a room, and that of houses on the 
hill occupied by the native whites 14.14. The difference between 
these last two rents, then, for a house of four rooms, was over 
I2.00 a month. 

TABLE 14.— FAMILIES HAVING RUNNING WATER IN THE HOUSE AND 

INDOOR CLOSETS. — BY WEEKLY RENT 



Normal IVtikly Rent 


Number of 
Families 


Runrnng WaUr 
in House 


Indoor Closets 


Under I2.00. 
$2.00 to I2.99 . 
I3.00 to »3.QQ . . 
»4.oo to I4.99 . . 
I5.00 to I5.99 . 
16.00 to 16.99 • 
$7.00 and over . 

Owning homes . 


16 

34 
10 

6 

7 

1 

3 
"3 


14 

1 
3 

9 


• 

3 
I 
1 
4 

• « 

3 

4 


Total . 


90 


47 


15 



Sanitary conveniences go (or do not go) with a house as a 
whole. Only three out of 16 of the families whose rent was less 
than I2.00 a week had running water in the building; one-third 
of those who paid less than I3.00 had running water inside; two- 
thirds of those who paid between I3.00 and I5.00; and all those 
paying over I5.00. Nine out of 13 of the house-owners, moreover, 
had running water in their homes. Seven out of 1 1 of the families 

54 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

paying I5.00 or more had indoor closets, as against four out of 
66 paying less than that sum. 

Taken together, these facts express fairly the desire of 
American and English-speaking European families to have houses 
which in size, sanitatk>n, and conveniences would make a normal 
and efficient life possible. With the existing prices in Homestead, 
the amount expended for rent by the households whose budgets ran 
over |2o a week (I4.72) was none too large for the average family 
which desired sanitary conveniences and a sufficient number of 
rooms to insure privacy and the development of the home. The sum 
paid for rent by those who had less than |i2 a week to cover all 
expenditures (|2. 1 5) did not provide bare sanitary surroundings. 

As I passed in and out of the homes I was impressed with 
the genuine strength of the family ideals manifested in simple 
and externally unattractive dwellings; for standards of home life 
depend upon more than rooms and running water. It has often 
been said that the first evidence of the growth of the social instinct 
in any family is the desire to have a parlor. In Homestead this 
ambition has in many cases been attained. Not every family, 
it is true, can afford one, yet among my English-speaking acquaint- 
ances even the six families each of whom lived in three rooms 
attempted to have at least the semblance of a room devoted to 
sociability. In one three-room house, where there were seven 
children, a room which had in it a folding bed, a wardrobe, the 
carriage where the baby slept in the daytime, and the sewing 
machine, was referred to with pride as the "front room," a phrase 
with a significance quite beyond its suggestion of locality. 

Much money and interest go toward making this room the 
center of home life. Here in the evening the family gathers about 
the soft coal or gas grate, while the mother sews, and one of the 
older children plays to the father. Such "front rooms" are the 
scenes of those simple festivities which enliven existence in this 
town. One mother described happily the evenings with her chil- 
dren: "My boys are so musical and the other fellows come in and 
we all have such a good sing together, and then Mamie dances 
the Highland Fling. They offered to pay her to do it in the 
nickelodeon, but the boys won't let her do it away from home." 

55 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

The furniture, though sometimes of the green plush variety, 
often displays simplicity and taste. A center table, a few chairs, 
a couch, and frequently either an organ or piano complete the 
furnishings. Usually there are pictures — the family portraits or 
some colored lithographs — ^and almost always that constant friend 
of the family, the brilliantly colored insurance calendar. Pic- 
tures of one or two such rooms will show how well the women have 
succeeded in making them homelike. 

In the four-room houses, the family eat in the kitchen. In 
five-room houses we find an anomaly known as the "dining room." 
Though a full set of dining room furniture, sideboard, table and 
dining chairs, are usually in evidence, they are rarely used at meals. 
The family sewing is frequently done there, the machine standing 
in the comer by the window; and sometimes, too, the ironing, to 
escape the heat of the kitchen; but rarely is the room used for 
breakfast, dinner or supper. One woman said, " My daughter is 
in High School, and she thought we ought to eat there and said 
she would wait on the table, but in about a week I noticed she 
set the table in the kitchen again." Where there is no servant it 
is much easier to cook and serve in the same room ; so the dining 
room, though finding plenty of use, does not live up to its name. 

The kitchen is the important room of the house. Here the 
mother spends the day, here the family meet for meals and the 
children come between times for the much sought for "piece." 
The furnishings usually include a good range, either coal or gas, 
which most Homestead housewives consider a necessity. As few 
houses have running water inside, set tubs are rare, but washing 
machines, which cost about I15, are more often found. The 
kitchen usually opens on the garden, and in the sections where 
rear houses have not been built this space provides also a place 
where the children can play under their mother's eye. 

Throughout the part of the town occupied by the English- 
speaking workmen, we find these evidences of a very real interest 
in the home. More substantial proof of the instinct of homemak- 
ing is shown in the often heroic efforts to buy the house. In view 
of the number of families who could not pay sufficient rent to 
secure either rooms enough for comfortable living or sanitary 
conveniences, it is a striking fact that according to the census 

56 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

figures of 1900, 586 families in Homestead borough, 25.7 per cent 
of the total number, held title to their homes; and 47.4 per cent 
of these were free from encumbrance. Personal interviews have 
corroborated this evidence that mill-town workingmen wish to 
own their dwellings. 

In the budget families, eight out of 25 Americans, three 
out of 13 of the English-speaking Europeans and two of the 29 
Slavs owned their homes, and five others were buying them. 
While none of these earned normally under 1 1 2, not all belonged 
to the highest wage group. Five had an income of |i2 to 1 14.99, 
two of |i 5 to 1 1 9.99, and 1 1 of |20 or over. For the five on the 
lower income it had been a slow process to buy a home, requiring 
much self-denial. 



TABLE 15. — 18 HOUSE-PURCHASERS AMONG 90 BUDGET FAMILIES. 
— BY NORMAL WEEKLY INCOME AND BY RACIAL GROUP 



Racial Croup 


Number 
of Budget 
ramiltes 


Number 
PurcbaS' 

Homes 


Families in Which Man 
Normally Earned 


Under 
1 12.00 


112.00- 


1 1 5.00- 
* 19-99 


I20.00 
tmdover 


Slav 

Eng. Sp. Eur. 

Nat. White . . , 

Colored .... 


39 
33 


3 

5 
10 

• • 


• • 

• « 

■ • 


I 

3 

1 

• • 


1 
1 

• • 

• • 

2 


1 
1 
9 

• • 


Total . . 


90 


i8* 


■ « 


5 


II 



* 13 families owned their houses; 5 were paying instalments. 



Ownership is made possible in many cases by the attitude 
of the real estate companies, which in Homestead prefer building 
for sale rather than for rent, and which safeguard their clients in 
such a way that workingmen dare to buy. They have made 
buying a very simple proposition. The purchaser pays down a 
small sum, sometimes as low as 1 150. The company assumes the 
obligation of paying interest on the mortgage, insurance, taxes, 

57 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

etc., and the buyer pays a monthly instalment large enough to 
cover this and make a small reduction on the principal. For 
instance, a neat five-room frame cottage with running water in 
the kitchen but containing no bathroom, is worth about f2ooo.* 
CV this sum the purchaser pays {300 down, and his monthly 
instalment is f 17. Smaller houses can be purchased with in- 
stalments correspondingly reduced. 

About twenty years ago the Carnegie Steel Company started 
the plan of permitting their employes to deposit money with the 
company. At that time also the company commenced making 
loans to employes to assist them in purchasing homes. It was 
believed the deposits would be offset by the amount loaned for 
this purpose, but it did not work out that way, the loans not 
equalling the deposits. Accordingly, for a number of years the 
extension of deposits by employes has not been encouraged, 
although any employe who chooses to do so is permitted to open 
an account. At the present time only about 1 100 employes in 
the different plants of the company are depositors. Lx^ans up to 
two-thirds of the value of the property are made to employes to 
aid them in buying homes. Interest is charged at the rate of 
5 per cent per annum plus the state tax.t The principal is pay- 

* The Homestead Realty Company will mortgage such a house for 1 1,000, 
and sell the property on monthly payments, taking a second mortgage for the 
balance less the money paid down by the purchaser. If the family pays f 300 down, 
this second mortgage would be f 700. The company sells on the plan of one dollar 
per month for each f 1 00 of indebtedness. I n this case, therefore, the monthly pay- 
ment would be f 17, half of which would be applied against the indebtedness, and 
the other half would just cover the six per cent interest on the mortgages. Every 
six months the company gives credit on the indebtedness, thus reducing the in- 
terest charges; it deducts taxes, etc., on the other hand, from the payments made. 
By this system the second mortgage of {700 would probably be cleared by the 
monthly payments in six years; m other words, the family would be down to the 
first moTtgagt. From this point on, as this is only a 50 per cent mortgage, they are 
able to shift for themselves without the interference of the company. In view of 
the fact that good locations in Homestead are very scarce, the manager states 
that families wno have paid in f $00 or f 600, and then desired to leave town, have 
always been able to turn their property over at as much, or even more, than they 
paid for it. 

t A point of contrast between the house-building operations in such an 
American mill town, and those in certain of the European industrial centers, is the 
fact that on the loaned capital by which the American workman becomes a house- 
owner, he pays a rate not much if any less than that paid by any small individual 
borrower. Through the Industrial Insurance Funds of Germany, and grants by 
the governmental authorities in Great Britain, such building operations can be 
financed at a much lower rate. 

58 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

able in monthly instalments. At the present time 165 employes 
have loans from the company. 

Some of the other means adopted to secure a home are illus- 
trated in the story of a delightful Englishman, once a silk weaver 
but now an engineer in the mill, who lives in Munhall Hollow. 
The meaning of the word Homestead is all but forgotten by its 
people, but the story 6f this man's house building shows much of 
the spirit of the old settlers. When he wished to build, he had 
very little money. Mr. Munhall, who was then living, gave him 
a note to a lumber firm, who sold him {200 worth of lumber on 
credit. He paid down f 24 for the lease of a lot.* Since he did part 
of the work, the labor cost on his three-room house was only about 
lufo. As soon as these debts were paid, he incurred another for 
9200 in order to enlarge the kitchen and build a second bedroom 
over it ; then he added a front porch and later a shed in the rear 
for a storehouse, with a chicken coop beside it. All this was done 
while there were three children at home, and on the income of an 
engineer, not over I3.00 a day. Now he and his wife, despite the 
disadvantage of not having a freehold in the land, take in their 
comfortable though simple home the pride of the creator as well as 
of the owner — ^a feeling rare in these days of huge tenements and 
"company houses," when men accept whatever can be had for 
the renting and when long shifts make it difficult for them to put 
the work of their hands into their homes if they would. 

When the house is paid for, the family often takes a genuine 
pleasure in its improvement. Sometimes it is the addition of a 
bathroom; sometimes the re-papering in the spring which the 
busy mother finds time to do; sometimes the building of a wash- 
house in the yard. To plan and carry out these improvements 
always means the development of a sense of family life and its 
common interests. One Italian family had been world wanderers, 
going from Sicily where the man was a stone mason, to France; 
from there to South America, to pick coffee on a Brazilian planta- 
tion; and at last they had come to America. In each of three 
places in this country in which they had lived they had secured a 

* Criticism was made in an earlier chapter (p. 26) of the undesirable features 
of the leasing system of the John Munhall Estate, which affects between two and 
three hundred families in the community. In this instance the plan did not work 
out unhappily. 

59 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

bit of property. Now, as the man was earning {2.50 a day and 
two relatives boarded with them, he could buy a four-room house 
on the outskirts of the town, worth f 1500. During the summer, 
after work hours he built a fence, a hen house, and a cold frame for 
vegetables, and began to get his ground in shape for a good 
garden. When winter came he went to work on a basement 
kitchen so that the first floor could be kept for living rooms. 
He dug and plastered and ceiled it with matched wood, till it was 
snug and cozy. 

To have a bathroom is a real ambition with the native white 
families, and some of those who live in the otherwise excellently 
equipped company houses mentioned the lack of one as a great 
drawback to their convenience. A number of families who 
owned their houses had themselves gone to the expense of putting 
in baths, while others proposed some day to do the same. The 
woman of the Italian family just referred to, who lives on one of 
the unsewered streets on the hill, told me eagerly that she expected 
to have a bath as soon as the town provided water, an indication, 
in passing, of how the town government often lags behind the 
ambitions of individual householders. 

Much of the burden of buying the home falls on the house- 
wife. She must make the needed economies if the extra nK)ney is 
to be forthcoming; she must see that the sum is ready when the 
days for payments come. The final value of the effort is shown in 
the case of one family who bought a house when the sons were 
at home helping to swell the income. Now when the boys are 
married and gone, and the father, no longer strong, earns but 
I2.25 a day, the parents can still live in simple comfort. Another 
instance was that of a couple from the country who started to buy 
when they were first married. In the course of five years, on an 
income of about I2.75 a day, they had purchased a comfortable 
five-room house. One Friday the young husband made the last 
payment and on Monday he was killed in the mill, leaving his 
wife to provide for three children. By renting three rooms for 
1 10 a month and by taking in washing, she hoped, with the money 
coming from the company and his insurance, to maintain herself. 

Granted the obvious advantages in house ownership, why 
after all does not everybody buy ? Some families, it is true, can- 

60 



1. Frame Houses, Five rooms and bath. 

2. Brick Houses. Four rooms and bath; cemented cellars; yard 40 x 400. 

S1700 to SiSoo. Built by Homestead Realty Co. 

3. Residence Street. Tenanted largely by business and professional men. 

The first and third houses are owned by mill men not superintendents. 



RENT IN THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

not save even I150, nor spare the small extra sums involved in 
the monthly payments. The study of the budgets of families living 
on f 12 or under a week reveals too small a margin after the neces- 
sities of life have been provided for. Some, too, are indifferent ; 
others decide against it after consideration. 1 was much interested 
in the different positions taken by two sisters in regard to the wis- 
dom of buying. One, with six children, whose husband makes 
something over I3.00 a day, said: " I didn't try to buy, because I 
wanted to give my children everything that was coming to them, 
and I wouldn't stint them." So, as far as she can, she gives them 
what the other children in school have; and f 3.00 goes but a little 
way when there are eight to provide for. The other, wiser per- 
haps, began early to buy her home. She has been married only five 
years, to a man whose income is about the same as her brother-in- 
law's, and has two little ones to care for; but already she has made 
the initial payment on the five-room house which will cost them 
about I3000. By sub-letting two rooms for |8.oo a month their 
monthly payments take from their wages only about as much 
as the regular rent. It will be some years before they have the 
indebtedness paid off, but they plan to be well on their way 
toward accomplishing this by the time the children are large 
enough to need the other rooms. 

Considering the number who buy on this plan, there are few 
foreclosures. Since work in Homestead is steady, loss of income 
due to lack of employment has not been so serious a menace to 
house buying as in many communities. The depression of 1907--8, 
of course, produced unusual conditions, but the real estate com- 
panies recognized the importance of keeping the confidence of the 
community and bore the brunt of the trouble themselves. I was 
told that of the three mortgages foreclosed in Homestead in 1907, 
none was on a workingman's home. If a man has shown any dis- 
position to honesty, — ^and in Homestead it is possible to know 
people intimately, — the real estate company will allow him, when 
in a hard place, to suspend all payments except interest on the 
mortgage. Trustworthy people are therefore fairly safe in starting 
to buy, so far as normally steady work and the co-operation of the 
realty company can give security. 

The house-buyer, nevertheless, has his hazards, and they are 

61 



homestead: the household of a mill town 

very real ones. The greatest difficulty arises from periodical cuts 
in wages. In 1908 for example, in mid-winter, 1 was told that 
the rate of wages of tonnage men was reduced in some cases 16} 
per cent. A family which by careful economy out of the wages 
current in the fall, could make the extra expenditure toward 
buying a house, might after such a cut find itself in a serious 
predicament. To keep on with payments would mean cutting 
down everywhere margins that are already small. As these 
wage cuts can never be foreseen, they introduce so serious an 
element of uncertainty that many doubt the wisdom of embarking 
their entire capital, though small, in such a venture. One family 
had been saving for some time; then the man was slightly injured 
in the mill, and |8o of savings went before he was at work again. 
The family kept on saving, however, and with I300 in the bank 
was hoping to begin the purchase the following spring, when hard 
times came and the surplus was again diminished. The woman 
fearing other catastrophes now hesitated gravely. When a 
family has put all its savings into a house, death, discharge, or 
displacement of the man by a machine, may compel a forced sale; 
a strike or season of hard times, or the removal of a plant from a 
given town, may leave him in a worse predicament. 

Home owning, moreover, lessens the mobility of labor, since 
when one is partly paid for a man will pull up stakes and seek 
work elsewhere only under extreme pressure. From the point of 
view of the company, this is an ever present advantage. For the 
employe it is a potential disadvantage, especially in a town like 
Homestead where, since the strike of 1892, the men have had no 
voice in the matter of wages and no security as to length of em- 
ployment. Hitherto the disadvantages to the employe house- 
owners have not been extreme because with the lack of sufficient 
houses in Homestead it has been easy to realize upon them. In 
the average mill town, however, house ownership may prove an 
encumbrance to the workingman who wants to sell his labor in 
the highest market. 



62 



CHAPTER V 
TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

DURING my sojoumings in Homestead, I found it of little 
avail to stand knocking at front doors. It was wise to go 
straight to the back door, which opened into the warm 
and cheerful kitchen. Here I was sure to find the housekeeper 
busy preparing for the ever recurring meal, economically her most 
important task. Not only is food the largest item in the family 
account, but it is also one which, by thrift and ability, housewives 
can reduce without lessening the comfort of the family. The " cost 
of living" is a problem they themselves are studying practically, 
and many of them took a lively interest in the results of the budget 
investigation. 

In general, the account books revealed a fairly intelligent 
choice of foods, including a large amount of fruit and green v^e- 
tables, chosen apparently to meet the need of men who do very hot 
work. The following bill of fare for four days is fairly typical 
of the English-speaking households. The head of the family in 
this instance earned about f 3.00 a day. 

Monday 
Breakfast: Oat-meal and milk, ^gs and bacon, bread, butter. 



jelly, coffee. 
r: Sdup, 



Dinner: Soup, bread, fruit. 

Supper: Meat, beans, potatoes, fruit, red beets, pickles. 

Tuesday 

Breakfast: Chocolate, eggs, bread, butter, and jelly. 

Dinner: Spinach, potatoes, pickles, warmed over meat, fruit, 

bread, butter. 
Supper: Meat, sweet potatoes, carrots, beans, tomatoes, tea, 

bread, butter ana fruit. 

63 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Wednesday 

Breakfast : Eggs, comcakes, potatoes, coffee, rhubarb, bread, butter. 
Dinner: Soup, bread, butter. 

Supper: Lamb stew with dumplings, cucumber, eggplant, beans, 
com, coffee, bread and butter, fruit. 

Thursday 

Breakfast: Eggs, fruit, eggpl2int, coffee, cakes. 
Dinner: SoupTbread ancfbutter, cakes, fruit. 
Supper: Fish, potatoes, tomatoes, cucumbers, pie, tea. 

When the man does not come home for the noon meal, as 
in thb instance, it is usually a light one for the rest of the household. 
In another family where they had eggs for breakfast and meat for 
supper, the children were fed at mid-day on mush and milk with 
bread and molasses. 

In mill-town economics, the dinner pail must be reckoned 
with as part of the table, and a bill of fare must be read 
with that in mind. 1 was struck with the pains often taken 
with the "mister's" bucket. The women used to carry hot 
lunches to the mill, but they are not now allowed inside without 
a pass. Most of the men, as they are not given regular time for 
eating, snatch a bite between tasks, though some, whose work 
permits, stop for a leisurely meal. I even heard of men who 
took steaks to cook on the hot plates about the machines. But 
they usually rely on the cold meal, and the women take great 
pains to make it appetizing, especially by adding preserves in a 
little cup in a comer of the bucket. They try to give the man 
what he likes the most, apparently half from pity at the cold food 
and hard work that fall to his lot. 

On the other hand, the women do not seem to realize that 
special care is needed in feeding the children, and generally give 
them much the same that their elders have. The mothers rarely 
attempt to check the natural tendency of childhood to be always 
running in for a bite between meals. The children suffer, too, 
from the fact that the time for meals is irregular because of the 
weekly change in the man's hours. One woman told me that the 
men get a bad habit of eating at odd times in the mill, and with 
this and meal hours changing every week, expect to eat whenever 

64 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

they feel like it. The household naturally picks up the habit with 
disastrous results both to digestion and housekeeping. 

Sunday dinner is the one meal that serves as a time of fes- 
tivity. Almost every account showed that on Saturday an extra 
piece of meat, usually a roast, was bought. The men have 
some leisure on Sunday and sit down with pleasure to a more 
elaborate dinner. Sometimes the married sons and daughters 
come home for that meal, and altogether it plays a definite part 
in the week's pleasure. Unfortunately, however, as the men 
usually work either Saturday night or Sunday night, they rarely 
have the whole of Sunday to themselves, with that sense of free- 
dom and let-up which means so much at the end of the week. 

Occasionally, especially on holidays, there are family re- 
unions. On Thanksgiving, when the mills run as usual, few prep- 
arations are made for the hurried dinner. Christmas, however, 
is a great day in Homestead. Twice a year, on that day and on 
July Fourth, the great mill stops. Everyone who can goes home, 
some to families in Homestead, others to neighboring towns, and 
there are Christmas trees in many homes. Some of the women 
who kept budget accounts took care to explain that their unusual 
expenses in December, both for food and extras, were for Christ- 
mas festivities. 

Formal guests are infrequent. Where the housewife is also 
cook, there are difficulties in the way of hospitality, which are 
accentuated by the irregular meals and the hours of work. People 
who live simply and eat informally rarely utilize the meal time 
for guests as do more conventional households. But though 
rarely a time of festivity, the meal hour is always present in the 
housewife's mind. When asked for an account of what they 
spent on food the women usually responded cheerfully, "We 
spend all we can get." They realized, nevertheless, that econ- 
omies are possible and necessary if bills are to be met on 
pay day. For in spite of the reputed high wages among steel 
workers, the problem Homestead housewives face in trying to 
provide food and a good home on the man's earnings is no easy 
one. As we shall see from these budgets, excellent management is 
required to secure a really adequate food supply with the amount 
that can be set aside for this purpose. 
5 65 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Food stuffs are high in this region. At a hearing before 
the Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce in 1906, this fact was 
partially ascribed to geographical situation and local conditions. 
Since the river valleys are given over to the production of steel 
rather than of v^etables, fresh foods must be brought from 
a distance. This, of course, means added cost, because of 
freight charges. Some dealers claimed, also, that railroad terminal 
facilities were totally inadequate, and that fruit and vegetables 
spoiled while waiting to be unloaded. Moreover, as other local 
dealers stated, the ease with which money has been made in 
Pittsburgh has invited high prices. 

While comparative statistics as to food prices are usually 
open to question, those secured by the United States Bureau of 
Labor may be considered fairly dependable, since the same meth- 
ods were used in securing the data in different localities. Ac- 
cording to the figures in the Bulletin for 1907, the ordinary 
staple articles were more expensive in Pittsburgh than in any 
other city of similar size in the country. Pittsburgh slightly 
outranked even New York, not because its prices were in many 
cases the very highest, though among the selected articles that 
was true of lard, molasses, and rice, but because this Pennsyl- 
vania city ranked second in the prices paid for the great bulk 
of the commodities of ordinary consumption, — ^beans, chuck roast, 
salt beef, butter, mutton, fresh pork and bacon, — ^all of them 
articles entering largely into the workingman's bill of fare.* 

All AU^heny County is closely connected with Pittsburgh 
by suburban trolley lines, and prices in the smaller markets 
throughout the district are to a great extent uniform. Such 
comparative data as I gathered, fortified by the experience of 
the housekeepers 1 knew, indicated that Homestead prices were 
practically on the same level with those of Pittsburgh. 

Given then a fairly high cost of living, what proportion of 
the household income goes for food ? The answer to this first 
question to be drawn from the budget material was of necessity 

* Bulletin U. S. Bureau of Labor, July, 1Q07, pp. 175-328. See Appendix I, 
Table 9, p. 203; also Appendix IX, p« 241. Pittsburgh's excess in the prices of 
food stuffs is, however, not so great as to render the figures as to cost of living 
in Homestead inapplicable to workingmen's budgets in many other American 
industrial districts. 

66 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

affected by half-time work in the case of many families. Yet with 
this reservation in mind, the figures which show the comparative 
expenditures of the different racial and economic groups are 
interesting; moreover, the expenditures of representative families 
during weeks when they were working as usual, together with 
those of families who experienced no slack time, lead me to think 
that they reflect with fair accuracy the normal proportions in 
Homestead. 

The expenditure for food, though varying widely both in 
actual amount and in its relation to the total expenditure, is al- 
ways the largest single item. Among the native whites it con- 
stituted 36.3 per cent of the total, and among the Slavs 45.7, 
this variation, as in the case of rent, being the result of differences 
in income as well as of differences in racial standards. The 
percentage for food steadily grows smaller, as the total of all 
expenditures which a family is in position to make grows larger. 
Food constituted 45.3 per cent of the total among those who spent 
less than f 12 per week and only 36.7 per cent among families 
spending |20 or over per week. The percentage in the two inter- 
mediate groups, considered jointly (that is, from f 12 to 1 19.99) 
was 42 (Table 17). These percentages for food expenditure are 
about the same as those secured in other investigations of costs 
of living. Mr. Chapin gives the percentage in families with 
incomes ranging from |6oo to |iooo (that is, from f 12 to f2o per 
week) as varying between 44.3 and 45.6 per cent.* According to 
an investigation made by the Federal Bureau of Labor, 5920 
families with incomes from f6oo to 1 1,000 spent from 39.9 to 
43.48 per cent.f 

It is only proportionately, of course, as shown in percentages, 
that food expenditures grow smaller as families have more to spend. 
Actually, families with budgets over I20 per week spent twice 
as much money for food as families with budgets under |i2, — 
I9.38 per week as against $4.16. The most meagre family ex- 
penditure of all was among the colored day laborers earning under 

* Chapin, Robert Coit: The Standard of Living among Workingmen's 
Families in New York Gty, p. 70. New York, Charities Publication Committee, 
1909. Russell Sage Foundation Publication. 

t United States Commissioner of Labor, i8th Annual Report, iqo3, p. 101 

67 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



TABLE 1 6. — AVERAGE WEEKLY EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD OF 90 
BUDGET FAMILIES AND PER CENT OF TOTAL EXPENDITURE. 
— BY RACIAL GROUP 



Racial Group 


Number of 
Families 


Average IVeekly 
Expenditures 
Alt Purposes 


Average Weekly Expendi- 
ture FOR Food 


Amount 


Percent 


Slav. . 

Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Nat. White 
Colored . 


29 
«3 
25 
23 


I* 309 
16.97 
20.47 
12.39 


15.98 
7.55 

4'^ 


45.7 

36.3 
39.1 



TABLE 17. — SAME AS TABLE 1 6. — BY EXPENDITURE GROUP 



Expenditure 
uroup 


Number of 
Families 


Average IV eekly 

Expenditure 

All Purposes 


Average Weekly Expendi- 
ture FOR Food 


Amount 


Per cent 


Under f 1 2.00 . 

f i2.oo-|i4-99 . 

f 1 5.00-119.99 . 
I20.00 and over 


23 
19 


f 9.17 
13.32 

»7.5? 
25.56 


5.86 
9.38 


45-3 
44.0 

40.4 
36.7 



TABLE 18. — AVERAGE WEEKLY EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD OF 90 
BUDGET FAMILIES. — BY RACIAL AND EXPENDITURE GROUP 





Under 
f 12.00 


f 1 3.00 TO 

II4-99 


f 15 .00 TO 
* 19.99 


120.00 

AND OVER 


All 
Families 


Racial Croup 


^2 

14 

3 

4 
II 

32 

■ • 




T5 

5 
4 

I 

6 
16 

• • 


^1 


7 

I 

5 
23 




•S-8 

11 
I"? 

3 

3 

12 

I 
19 

• • 


rl 


fa 
11 

29 

«3 
25 
23 

90 

• • 




Slavs 

Eng. Sp. Eur. . 

Nat. White . . 

Colored 


5-93* 

4-39 

3« 


6.39* 

5-92 

5.40 


7.00 


17.12 

1 2.45* 
9.26 

8.45 


I5.98 
7.55 


Number of families 
Ave. expenditure 


»4.i6 


15.86 


* • 

17.11 


l9.*38 


^.^2 



* The families in the English-speaking European group were much larger 
than in the other groups, averaging 7.1 persons per family as against j.2 in the 
Slavs. 4.8 in the native white and 3.8 in the colored families. This influenced 
their total food expenditure in the lower income groups. 

68 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

f 12, who averaged I3.22 per week. The amplest was among 
English-speaking Europeans who were earning the wages of skilled 
men and who in dollars and cents spent four times as much for 
food as the former (Table 18). The food expenditure of Slavs 
ranged from I4.48 a week for the families under |i2 to as high as 
fy.oo and fS.oo a week; the native whites from I4.29 to over 
I9.00.* 

But all such statements as to average food expenditures for 
entire households are inaccurate in so far as families differ in size. 
Professor Atwaterf overcomes this difficulty by reducing household 
expenditures to a per capita basis. In line with his calculations 
as to the comparative amount of food needed, we have assumed 
that the average woman eats .8 as much as a man, children over 
fourteen the same, and children under fourteen, .5 as much. 

TABLE 19. — ^AVERAGE EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD PER MAN PER DAY 
OF 90 BUDGET FAMILIES. — BY RACIAL AND EXPENDITURE 
GROUP 





Under 
fia.oo 


1 12.00- 
|i4-99 


I15.00- 
I19.99 


|a0.00 AND 
OVER 


All 
Families 


Racial Group 


11 

3 

4 
II 

■ • 


M 

4 

Uj 


ll 

5 
4 

1 

6 
16 

• • 


:! 

4 

uj 


7 

I 

5 
33 


^1 
II 

^1- 


|8 

3 

3 

la 

1 

19 

■ . 


^1 
^1- 


39 

«3 
35 
33 

90 

■ . 


4 


Slav 

Eng. Sp. Eur. 

Nat. white . . . 

Col<M^ .... 


1.^5 
.19 
.ai 

.30 


1.29 
.19 
.19 


t.36 

•34 


•35 

•36 


1.39 

.34 
.33 
.30 


Total Families 
Average expenditure . 


• ■ 

1.26 


• • 


• m 

I.3I 


m • 

1.37 





The per capita food expenditure among our 90 budget 
families is shown in Table 19 for both racial and expenditure 

*The naive report of the Committee on Trade and G>mmerce to the Pitts- 
burgh Chamber of Commerce November 18, IQ09, estimates that a liberal provision 
of food for a family of five would in Pittsburgh cost 1 11 .88 a week. See Appendix 
IX, p. 238. 

t Bulletin 21, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

69 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

groups. Here, as in the case of other tables in which the 90 families 
have been cross-classified into racial and economic groups, the 
subgroups are obviously too small to do more than suggest general 
tendencies, which commended themselves to me as noteworthy in 
view of many conversations with housewives. 

While the expenditure for food per man per day in each 
racial group usually increases as expenditures increase, we may 
note distinctions among them. The native whites and English- 
speaking Europeans spend in the three lower expenditure groups 
decidedly less than either Slavs or colored. A reference to Qiapter 
IV will show that with rent this proportion is reversed, the native 
whites and English-speaking Europeans spending larger amounts 
for rent in these lower economic groups. That is, their families 
seem to have a higher standard of housing, which they maintain 
when the income is low by making sacrifices in other lines. With 
them, the desire for a good home maybutweigh that for more varied 
and palatable food. The Slavs, on the other hand, who put up 
with poor housing, will not skimp to a great extent on food."*^ 

My inquiry was concerned, however, less with relative ex- 
penditures for food than with the question of how well people 
could live on the amounts actually spent. The depression did not 
enter in here as a disturbing factor, as prices in Homestead 
were unaffected by the hard times. Accurate figures on this point 
were difficult to secure, but undoubtedly any change would have 
been immediately noted by the housewives. Many of them ex- 
pressed their belief that prices kept about as usual. 

In a study of a number of household budgets in New York 
City in 1907, Professor Underbill of Yale estimated that 22 cents 
per day per man was in general the minimum for which an ade- 
quate supply of food could be procured.! ^^^s figure was based 
on a study of the nourishing quality of food measured in calories 

* See Appendix I ,TMt 1 o, p« 304. My Slavic familieSp moreover, were for the 
most part smaller in size. They could spend as much as 25 cents per day per man, 
even m the lowest expenditure group, without making the average outlay for food 
per family noticeably large. 

t "Comparisons between the amounts spent for food by well nourished and 
poorly nourished families indicate that in general when less than 3a cents per man 
per day is spent for food, the nourishment derived is insufficient." Report on 
Nutrition Investigation, Frank P. Underbill, Ph. D., in Chapin, The Standard 
of Living among Workingmen's Families in New York City, p. 319. 

70 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

and proteids; the former representing the heat-producing fats 
and sugars, and the latter the tissue builders — ^meat, bread, beans, 
etc. Careful experiments have been made to determine both the 
amount of each of these elements which given foods contain, and 
also the amount necessary to keep a man in a condition of physical 
efficiency. Having before him the actual costs to the housekeeper 
and the nourishing value of the articles eaten by certain house- 
holds, Professor Underhill was able to estimate for what sum the 
ordinary purchaser could secure a sufficient amount of food to 
maintain a male adult in physical well-being. 

By the use of Professor Atwater's ratios as to the relative 
amount of nutrition needed by men, women and children, such a 
standard per man per day affords a test of how well the food 
purchased by a family meets its physical needs. 

As we have seen that the Federal Bureau of Labor Report 
for 1907 rates food prices very nearly the same in New York and 
in the Pittsburgh district,"*" and as there were no indications of re- 
ductions in the local markets during the weeks of my inquiry, we 
may accept Professor Underbill's standard of 22 cents a day as 
fairly applicable to our Homestead budgets of the same year. 

Recurring then, with this standard in mind, to a closer 
scrutiny of actual expenditures for food among English-speaking 
Europeans and native whites, we find (Table 19) that the average 
cost of the former was 24 cents per day per grown man, and that 
of the latter 32 cents. As was to have been anticipated, families 
with few children and comparatively large incomes spent gener- 
ously for food (from 28 to 39 cents per man in the higher expendi- 
ture groups) . But the average for all English-speaking Europeans 
(24 cents) barely exceeds the amount necessary to supply sufficient 
nourishment even with wisdom in the choice of food. The average 
in both racial groups for those spending less than |i 5 per week fell 
below that amount. 

* To apply proportions rigidlv, the Pittsburgh district minimum would be 
32.9 cents. No attempt was made oy the writer to carry on independent experi- 
ments in food values as to Homestead dietaries. An analysis was made of the food 
expenditure of an exceptionally thrifty housekeeper, however. So far as esti- 
mates for proteids and calories can be drawn from account books, without weigh- 
ing the actual food stuffs used, this indicated that even with careful purchasing* 
less than 3a cents would not provide the standard of nourishment in Homestead. 

71 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Altogether, in 21 out of the 90 budget families (Table 20) 
less than 22 cents per man per day was being spent for food. Low 
wages, hard times, and large families, all were factors in depressing 
their consumption below this minimum. Of these families, 14 
expended less than |i2 a week for all purposes, seven a total of 
more than that. 

TABLE 20. — TWENTY-ONE FAMILIES SPENDING LESS THAN 22 CENTS 
PER MAN PER DAY FOR FOOD. — BY EXPENDITURE AND RACIAL 
GROUPS 



Expenditure Group 


Slavs 


English- 
speaking 
Europeans 


Native 
IVhiU 


Colored 


Toial 


Under! 13.00 

1 12.00-91 4.99 

Si 5.00-119.99 . . 

|ao.oo and over . 


5 

m m 
m • 
• • 


2 

2 
1 

• • 


2 
I 
3 


5 

I 

• • 

• • 


14 

4 
3 

• • 


Total . 


5 


5 


5 


6 


21 



In the case of the seven families whos6 expenditures ranged 
above |i2 per week but whose per capita outlay fell below the 
minimum of sustenance, size was an important factor. English 
or American families with nine children (one instance), seven 
children (two instances), or six (three instances) obviously found 
it necessary to economize closely on food if the other stand- 
ards of American life were to be maintained. It may be 
worth while to note here that I found with all budget fam- 
ilies* expenditure for food per person decreasing steadily with 
the increase in the size of the family. This was true in each ex- 
penditure group. For example, among families whose total ex- 
penditures were less than |i2 per week, those with two to four 
in the family spent an average of 24 cents per man per day for 
food while those with five or more in the family averaged but 19 
cents. In the |i2 to I14.99 group, the per capita sum fell from 
an average of 29 to 23 cents; in the I15 to 1 19.99 S^^^p, from 41 
to 24 cents; and in the group spending (20 or over, from 48 to 

* Appendix I, Table 1 1, p. 304. 
72 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

32 cents. This general decrease is in part due to the fact that 
the housewife can buy more economically for a large family; and 
also that when the family is small and the sense of economic 
pressure less heavy she indulges in more costly articles. With 
respect to the lower expenditure groups, the controlling factor no 
doubt is that with only a certain fairly definite share of the earnings 
available for food, that food must be divided among a certain 
number of mouths. 

This will be clearer if we look at the case of 14 families whose 
expenditures were below |i2 a week and who spent less than the 
minimum standard. On the basis of 22 cents a day per man, a 
normal family* must spend I5.08 per week on food alone, or 50 
per cent of the earnings of a day laborer working the ordinary 
ten-hour day of the yard laborers in the mill. This is in excess of 
the percentage which any group studied allowed for food. Unless 
such a man works overtime or Sunday, or the family supplements the 
man's earnings by lodgers, lives in a court, or has few or no children 
(with the Slavs one or all of these factors are often present),! this 
allowance for food must be cut down if the other items of 
expenditure are to be met. Among these 14 families, there 
were some whose income was always at this low margin, as 
well as some whose weekly expenditures had been depressed by 
temporary lack of work. The necessity to cut down on food is the 
same in one case as in the other and as a matter of fact, omitting 
the Slavs, half of all budget families whose expenditures were 
below |i2 a week, spent less than the sustenance standard for food. 
Where the family is above the normal in size, this pressure is 
accentuated. 

It is conceivable that a desire to save might lead a family to 
be niggardly in its food expenditures; though the Slavs, among 
whom we would first look for such practices, due to their keen 
desire to lay by money, averaged 25 cents per man per day in the 
under |i2 group. A more extensive study would no doubt have 
elicited cases where drunkenness, shiftlessness, sickness or other 

* Man, wife, three children under 14. See U. S. Bureau of Labor, 18th 
Annual Report, p. ao. 

t Two other alternatives are for women or young children to go out to work — 
alternatives not present to any extent in Homestead. 

73 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

immediate causes of small or squandered earnings reduced a 
family's food expenditures below this standard. A consideration 
of these tables, however, has shown us unmistakably how near to 
the line of under-nourishment must be the families of large size 
or low incomes. More important than that 21 families fell below 
22 cents for food, is the fact that, including the Slavs, the average 
expenditure for food of all our budget families spending from |i2 
to 1 14.99 per week was but 24 cents per man a day. That gives a 
margin of but two cents a day which can only too quickly be lost 
through a housewife's failure to get the most for her money at 
market, to select nourishing food, or to secure the nutrient values 
out of what she puts on the stove. In view of the occurrence of 
the hard times, these figures should not be taken as an accurate 
expression of customary food expenditures in Homestead in pros- 
perous years. They do show what Homestead housewives felt it 
necessary to spend for food when they were economizing. 

We must remember, also, that many unskilled housekeepers 
cannot provide enough nourishment on a minimum outlay requir- 
ing wisdom in the choice of food. The sufficiency of food pur- 
chased cannot be measured altogether by the amount spent. 
Perhaps in this expenditure more than in any other there is a 
chance for women to display their skill, an asset which must be 
included in the family resources. Two households, undoubtedly 
extreme types, will serve to illustrate this point. 

The first was a Scotch family of seven who had been in this 
country for about fifteen years. Besides the three younger chil- 
dren in school there were two sons at work, whose wages brought 
the family income up to I32 a week. The six-room house was 
none too large to make them all comfortable and enable them to 
have a pleasant sitting room. As I stepped into the kitchen one 
frosty morning, I was greeted by the odor of preserves which the 
wife was making ready to vary the monotony of dinners to be 
eaten from a " bucket." We fell to discussing methods of economy 
and she told me many of her thrifty ways; about the pig they 
would buy as soon as cold weather came, to provide salt pork and 
ham for the winter; the pickles and preserves she was putting up; 
the I50 she was saving to buy the winter's supply of dry groceries 
from the wholesaler's. That this thrift did not amount to par- 

74 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

simony was shown by the good gas range and washing machine in 
view, and by evidences of ample provision of food. By planning 
ahead, by extra labor, by wise buying, even luxuries were secured 
on a food expenditure of only 24 cents per person a day. 

The other extreme was shown in the home of a poor, unin- 
telligent woman who had gone to work at the age of eleven, and 
could neither read nor write. As enough to pay the rent was the 
only contribution to the family purse made by her husband, a 
ne'er-do-well, she herself was obliged, by washing and by taking 
a lodger, to provide money for food and clothes. This money, 
which averaged I4.50 a week, was very irregular, as the lodger was 
frequently out of work. With a wayward boy in school and a 
sickly baby at home, she had but little time and thought to give 
to housekeeping. Food was bought daily by the five and ten 
cents' worth, — pork chops, cheap preserves at ten cents a jar, 
two quarts of potatoes, a loaf of bread, etc. — a pitiable record 
viewed either from the standpoint of the children's health or of 
the pocket-book. The least nutritious food was bought in the 
most expensive way, because of ignorance and of a small and 
uncertain income. The items of her expenditures (at 25 cents 
per day) were deficient in the elements which provide heat and 
energy to the body, and lacking in the foods which replace worn- 
out cells. The sample week's account from each of these budgets 
on page 76 shows the contrast in their methods of buying. 

Usually the housekeeper buys a large order of supplies on 
Saturday and supplements it during the week with additional 
purchases of meat, vegetables and other foods. Among Home- 
stead women no subject provokes discussion more readily than econ- 
omy in buying. Some claim that the chief evil of Homestead 
life is an extravagance fostered by the ease with which families buy 
on credit. As the accounts run for two weeks and are settled on 
" pay Friday," the family never catches up. A number of women 
expressed their conviction that when prices of articles like butter 
and eggs are not constant, the grocers are inclined to overcharge 
a little for goods on credit. Moreover, it is much easier to be 
extravagant when no cash is paid out and the price is simply 
jotted down in the "book." A woman who tried this method 
once, found it so expensive that at the end of two weeks she 
threw the book into the stove and would never use one again. 

75 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



TABLE 21. — ITEMIZED ACCOUNT 

OF FOOD EXPENDITURES FOR 

ONE WEEK BY A THRIFTY 

HOUSEKEEPER 

Saturday 

Milk 08 

49 lbs. flour 1.75 

Bananas 15 

Grapes 2^ 

Cabbage 25 



Monday 

Milk 08 

2i lbs. beef 30 

Steak 30 

Pie la 

Tuesday 

Milk 08 

Tea 60 

Cheese 36 

3 doz. eggs 60 

Coffee 35 

Candy 10 

Grapes 10 

Wednesday 
Milk 08 



Friday 

16 lbs. ham fs.oo 

Spices 10 

Vanilla 10 

Milk 08 



TABLE 22. — ITEMIZED ACCOUNT 
OF FOOD EXPENDITURES FOR 
ONE WEEK BY A POOR HOUSE- 
KEEPER 

Saturday 

Bread | .05 

Jelly 10 

Coal 10 

Pork (3 lbs.) 50 

ipk. potatoes 1^ 

Cabbage 13 

3 lbs. sugar 11 

i lb. prunes o^ 

Can com 10 

3 loaves bread 10 

J doz. eggs 14 

Cooking apples 10 

i lb. butter 18 

1 lb. cheese 30 

Monday 
Lima beans 10 



76 



Tuesday 

3 lbs. boiling beef . • -3^ 

Can peas 10 

Can syrup 10 

4 doz. fig cakes 06 

Baking powder 05 

4 pk. potatoes t^ 

Bread 05 

Pork chops 15 

Wednesday 

Boiling Beef 15 

Barley o^ 

4 doz. pickles o^ 

Bread 05 

Thursday 

Can molasses 10 

I doz. rolls 10 

Pudding 10 

3 lbs. sugar 11 

Turnips 10 

Tea Jib 15 

i doz. doughnuts . . . .05 

Friday 

Pie 10 

Sausage 10 

Can com 10 

Bread 05 

Jelly 10 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

Women expressed varied opinions upon the economy of 
buying in Pittsburgh. There were those who believed that even 
when prices were slightly lower in the city, the saving was more 
than counterbalanced by the time and carfare expended in the trip. 
Some housekeepers also claimed that low priced goods purchased 
from wholesale houses in town were of so poor a quality that it 
was not economy to buy them. Then, too, the women felt that 
loyalty to Homestead demanded that they purchase in their own 
town as far as possible. So, though on Saturday afternoon the 
cars are filled with women carrying baskets home from Pittsburgh 
markets, the larger part of the purchases are made in Homestead. 
Hucksters, who come out each morning with goods from the Pitts- 
burgh commission houses, sell fruit and vegetables. Though some 
of these men undoubtedly give poor quality and short measure, 
the older housekeepers usually find a trustworthy one and become 
r^ular patrons. 

Many women show a genuine pride in their skill in buy- 
ing and in utilizing different cuts of meat. One woman as- 
sured me that it was no economy for her to buy pieces which 
contained bones, gristle and fat, since her family would not eat 
them. If instead of buying such cuts at lo cents a pound she paid 
15 for solid meat, her money really went further. 1 shall not 
soon forget the enthusiasm with which one young wife described 
a special potato meat pie, her husband's favorite dish, which 
she made from the ends of steak too tough to use in any other 
way. These women are anxious not only to practice economies, 
but to conceal them by good choosing and skilful cooking. 

When sickness or lack of work reduces wages temporarily, 
the amount available for food is lessened. During the depression 
1 was surprised to see how quickly certain housewives rose to the 
emergency in their determination that the family should feel 
this change as little as possible. Sometimes this meant a serious 
cutting down of the amount essential to physical well-being; at 
other times economies were accomplished by foregoing luxuries 
and by the purchase of simpler but more nutritious food. Here is 
an interesting budget, the two accounts having been kept by the 
same woman, one in December, when the man was working stead- 
ily; the other later in the winter when, having lost his regular 

77 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



employment, he took laborers' work at little more than half his 
former pay. While the cost in the second account dropped 
noticeably, a rough calculation indicates that the nutrient value 
remained almost the same. This was accomplished, at least in 
part, by doing without meat and with less fruit, both expensive in 
proportion to nutrition. 



TABLE 23.—' 


rwo WEEKLY 


FOOD BUDGETS OF A THRIFTY FAMILY 


(i) Account When Man Worked on 


(3) Account When Man 




Full Pay 




Worked on Half Pay 


Article 


Cost 


Pounds 


Cost 


Pounds 


Meat . 


I1.81 


13.1 


*':SI 


5-7 


Beans. 


.06 


.5 


.7 


Milk . . . 


.11 


3.7 


•30 


10.0 


Cheese 


.13 


.6 


.66 


.3 


Butter 
Ftour. 


.31 

.17 
.14 


1.3 
.8 

3-3 


-42 


10.3 


Bread. 


•47 


5-5 


•3> 


3-3 


Potatoes . 


.31 


13.0 


• • 


• « 


Turnips, etc. . 


.05 


3.3 


.10 


3-6 


Green veg. 


• • 


• 9 


• • 


. . 


Canned veg. . 


•35 


3.5 


.11 


1.3 


Fruit . 


.63 


30.3 


.40 


13.0 


Sugar. 


•3« 


7« 


.38 


9.3 


Sundries . 


.58 


. . 


-42 


. . 


Total . . 


I5.11 


69.8 


I3.84 


6ow4 



Such economy is usually instinctive rather than the result 
of special knowledge or interest in food values. Both in good 
times and bad times this woman failed to give her family sufficient 
of the tissue builders. The housewives expressed some scorn of 
the theoretical aspects of the problem as taught in the cooking 
classes of the Schwab Manual. Training School, feeling that prac- 
tical experience was of more value than any theory. As the girls 
who attended the cooking classes were many of them only in the 
grammar grades, they probably did not make clear at home the 
everyday applications of theories expressed in unfamiliar terms. 
Proteids and calories seem to bear so little relation to pork and 
beans. 

78 



TABLE AND DINNER PAIL 

The four prize housekeepers I knew were daughters of 
Pennsylvania farmers. They had learned as country girls how 
to work, how to provide, and how to economize, and how at the 
same time to create a real home atmosphere. Girls, on the other 
hand, who had worked in factories or been clerks, lacked the 
practical training necessary to help them solve the problems 
awaiting the young wife of a wage-earner. To my surprise also 
I found that in some instances domestic service was a no more 
satisfactory preparation for housekeeping. I remember a kitchen 
where all was wretched, the children unwashed, the woman 
untidy, the room unswept. Though the man earned I3.20 a 
day, his wife, trained as a servant in a wealthy home, had learned 
extravagant ways and realized helplessly that she could not "get 
caught up" with her bills, manage her home efficiently, or train 
her children. "He doesn't see," she said, "why it is though he 
earns twice what he did when he married me, we are still behind, 
and he doesn't even carry any insurance." 

The task of solving these problems demands, as already 
suggested, no mean degree of patience, of practical skill, of intelli- 
gence and interest. We demand that the worker save, and forget 
that this often can be accomplished only by constant, intelligent 
watchfulness on the part of the wife, or by doing without some 
of the essentials of a normal, healthful life. 

The marvelous success of some women should not blind us 
to the fact that they are exceptional housekeepers. After watch- 
ing the busy lives and the problems of these women, I came to 
believe that the woman who can keep her home healthful and 
attractive on I15 or less a week has in her elements of genius. 
Many a woman who can keep house fairly well on an income that 
does not require close economy would find herself, I am sure, 
sadly at a loss to maintain a satisfying table on 25 cents a day 
per man — the level upon which, in a period of hard times, my 
"under I15" budget housekeepers managed their expenditures for 
table and dinner pail. If these per diem tests are indicative, this 
would allow little more than enough to maintain the physical effi- 
ciency of a workingman's household even with the most skilful ex- 
penditure; a margin of only 1 5 cents a day to make good any lack 
of skill, or to provide a leeway for the purchase of appetizing 

79 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

trifles. A round of food chosen solely for its value in proteids 
and calories would be an undue tax on the housekeeper's brain. 
Only skilled housekeepers can set a table that is both nourishing 
and appetizing for such a sum. 

Buying nourishing food at a small cost is not a task com- 
pleted once for all. These are three-times-a-day problems. 
Even the most skilful fail at times to buy wisely, and what is to 
be anticipated for those whose large families make such heavy 
demands on them that they are unable to find the time to plan 
and provide ahead of the need; those with an uncertain income; 
those especially who are just incapable and unintelligent? If 
vigilance is relaxed or if some disaster lessens income, the food 
supply is bound to fall below what is essential. 



80 



CHAPTER VI 

OTHER EXPENDITURES: THE BUDGET 

AS A WHOLE 

THE vital problem which in normal times confronts these 
homemakers is not provision against physical destitution. 
With the wages given in the steel mills, that may safely 
be assumed for the families of the English-speaking workers. The 
question is whether when they have met their rent and food bills 
there is money enough left to provide for the other vital needs of 
mind and body. 

The answer to this question was partly revealed by a study of 
the detailed items of expenditure from which the accompanying 
tables were drawn. Once the food and rent account had been 
paid, the margin for other family expenditures, during the period 
studied, ranged from I3. 14 a week in the group spending under f 12, 
to 1 1 2.45 among those spending over |2o. This margin increases 
proportionately, as well as actually, with increased income; for 
while only a little over one-third of the expenditures of families 
spending under f 12 goes for other needs than food and shelter, 
the proportion in the higher groups approaches one-half of the 
total outlay. At every level, this increasing margin must be 
distributed among three main spheres of expenditures: (i) for 
other home and personal needs, such as fuel, clothing, furniture, 
service and minor housekeeping items, through which, no less 
than through rent and food, the family expresses its household 
standards; (2) sundry outlays for social purposes such as edu- 
cation, recreation, religion and the like, through which the family 
shares in the community life; and (3) savings and insurance 
through which the family provides for old age or for such emer- 
gencies as sickness, accident and unemployment. 

Since the margin is often not large enough to provide equally 
for all these ends, each family reveals something of its inherent 
6 81 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

character by the choices it makes. One family chooses present 
pleasures as against the comfort of owning a house; one mother 
music lessons as against pretty clothes for the children. In each 
sphere some items are regarded as essentials, and others as non- 
essentials. 

As between expenditures in these three directions then, 
not only the contents of pay envelopes, but the individual prefer- 
ences of families within the various expenditure groups, play an 
important part. I shall not attempt to discuss the relative 
expenditures for such purposes, complicated as they were by the 
occurrence of the hard times,* but rather to suggest to the reader 
some things which influence the decisions made by a family, and 
indicate how far incomes at the different levels may permit of ra- 
tional expenditures one week after another in all these directions. 

The tables and general discussion will mean more if the facts 
concerning the expenditures of a few families are first noted, 
bringing out some of the distinctive items which fall into individual 
budgets : 

Stone. A colored family of five, the man a teamster 
earning |i2 a week, had an average weekly expenditure 
of 1 1 2.24 during the time the account was kept. Rent, I2.00; 
food, I6.23; coal, I1.45; washing materials, f .09; insurance, 
1 .39; church, 1 .10; tobacco, |. 08; medicine, I1.09; sun- 
dries, 1 .86. 

Stearns. An English family of five who own their 
house had an average weekly expenditure of 1 12.03. Food, 
I649; fuel, 1 .80; clothing, | .09; repairing house, I3.58: 
insurance, | .39; medicine, | .19; sundries, | .59. 

Ahearn. An American family of five who own their 
house, had an average weekly expenditure of 1 14.68. Food, 
f^.27; clothing, I3. 29; fuel, |i. 50; washing material, | .06; 
kitcnen utensils, | .20; sundries, | .26. 

* For instance, furniture and clothing are not representative items in 1 
four weeks' study of a family's spendings; still less are they so during hard times. 
The extent of savings represented by house-buying on the instalment plan is ex- 
tremely difficult to get at. The small expenditure for tobacco and liquor in these 
budgets is to be accounted for, at least in part, by the fact that men did not tell 
at home what they had purchased. It is to be remembered that in these tables 
the basis for classification is weekly expenditure, not normal or actual earnings. 
The women usually hesitated to ask the man about his spending money, and as in 
the days of slack work they did not know just what he earned it was difficult to 
learn df such personal items. 

82 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

Roth. Young American couple with one child, had 
an average weekl)^ expenditure of 1 16.96. Rent, 13.3^; 
food, 16.19;. clothing, I5.30; furniture, | .17; household 
expenses, f. 26; insurance, |i. 00; sundries, | .69. 

Stillman. Man, wife and two children; Scotch; had 
an average weekly expenditure of 1 18.63. Payment on 
house, I5.00; food, I5.19; fuel, | .83; clothinj^, |i.oo; 
furniture, | .87; household expenses, | .87; msurance, 
I2.65; tobacco, 1 .53; medicine, | .^2; sundries, I2.05. 

Lester. Family of eight, had an average weekly 
expenditure of I21.09. I^^nt, I2.21; food, I8.02; fuel, 
1.^5; clothing, I5.37; furniture, 1 1. 44; household expenses, 
1 .00; insurance, | .34; tobacco, | .29; medicine, I.75; 
sundries, I1.56. 

White. American family of five, the man dead but 
two sons support the family. They own their house. Their 
average weekly expenditure was |2i. Food, I8.56; fuel, 
1 1. 00; clothing, 1 .39; household expenses, 1 .22; furniture, 
I2.75; insurance, I2.55; newspapers, music lessons, etc., 
|i.8i; church, | .27; recreation, I.14; medicine, | .90; 
sundries, I1.15. 

Byrnes. American couple livin? in an attractive 
house with bath. Their average weelay expenditure was 
I22.57. Rent, I5.00; food, I9.22; gas, I3.42; furniture, 
1 .80; insurance, I1.02; medicine, I2.50; sundries, | .59. 

Howe. An Irish-American family of five owning 
their house. Their average weekly expenditure was I30. 
Food, I14.04; fuel, I2.47; clothing, I1.62; washing, I.31; 
furniture, 15*57; insurance, | .66; education, | .30; spend- 
ing money, | .96; tobacco, | .34; dentist, I1.25; bank, ^2.50; 
sundries, | .10. 

The following paragraph gives the total expenditures for 
four weeks for everything but food and rent of a family of seven 
whose average weekly income was 1 16.38. 

Oil, I .^o; coal, I5.20; interest instalments on furni- 
ture, I2.00; lamp wick, | .06; shovel, |.io; basin, I.15; 
brush, 1 .05; soap, | .30; stove and shoe blacking, | .10; 
paint, 1 .50; broom, | .35; stockings, | .35; shoes mended, 
^1.55; gloves, 1. 10; hat, 1. 10; underwear, | .40; shoes, 
1 1. 40; thread, 1 .06; ribbon, | .28; candy, I.15; carfare, 
1 .20; insurance, |i.io; medicine, |.io; church, | .08; 
"flowers for the dead," | .60; spending money for children, 
1 .36; for boy at work, |i.oo; for man, I4.50. Total for the 

83 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

month, I21.54. This gives an average for everything above 
food and shelter of I5.38 a week. 



table 24. — ^average weekly expenditure of 90 BUDGET 
FAMILIES FOR VARIOUS ITEMS. — BY EXPENDITURE GROUP 



Expenditure 
Croup 



Under 1 1 2.00 
1 1 3.00-1 1 4.99 

1 1 5.00-119.99 
I20.00 and over 



II 
11 



16 
19 



it 



1 



*9.i7 
13.33 

»7.59 
25.56 



I1.88 
2.29 

373 



I 



I4.16 
5.86 

9.38 



I 



1.38 1 

77 
.60 



.90 



.94 

»-57 
2.10 

3.36 



I 
I 



1.09 

.30 

t 



l^ 






Ii5 
.66 



s 

i 



1.70 

1.05 
1.86 



2 



1.07 
•05 

2 



|.20 

.63 
.11 






|.10 

.58 



I 



f-50 

1.33 
1.83 
4.09 



TABLE 25. — RATIO OF WEEKLY EXPENDITURES FOR VARIOUS ITEMS 
BETWEEN DIFFERENT EXPENDITURE GROUPS 



Expenditure 
Croup 



Under 1 1 2.00 . 
I12.00-I14.99 . 

I15.00-I19.99 . 
I20.00 and over. 



•a 






100 

192 
27B 



1 



100 
122 



I 



100 
141 

171 
225 



I 



100 
203 

174 
237 



? 



100 
167 
223 

357 



■2 



100 

222 
400 
889 



I 



100 

387 
440 






100 

73 
150 

266 



fS 



100 

7> 

7> 
114 



100 
70 

3i5 
55 



8 



100 
470 

570 



4 



100 
246 
366 

818 



A glance at Tables 24 and 25 indicates how different items 
respond to changes in available income. Expenditures for food, 
rent, fuel, and insurance increase less rapidly than do total ex- 
penditures, while clothing, furniture, minor housekeeping ex- 
penses, medicine, and sundries, increase more rapidly. This 
suggests the main distinction made by these people as to what 
they consider necessities and what luxuries. There is a limit 
below which necessities will not be cut down even when economy 
is necessary; the more essential the item, therefore, the smaller is 
its rate of increase as more income becomes available. 

Undue economy, may result in the lowering of more than 

84 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

purely physical standards. It may also interfere with the de- 
velopment of social standards. We are all imitators, and the 
inability to have what others have, even when the absence of 
the thing is not in itself a privation, reacts on the individual 
life by lessening the sense of self-respect and social standing. For 
example, to turn to our first group of marginal expenditures, the 
development of home life depends in part on having furniture 
enough. The front room to be used must be cozy. Fresh cur- 
tains, a couch, and an occasional carpet are household effects 
which must be currently reckoned with. To secure these, the 
instalment dealer is often resorted to. The majority of the people 
often buy on the instalment plan though in conversation they 
usually admit that it is an extravagant method. As one 
thrifty housewife said, "I must have new curtains this spring, 
and I haven't the money." There seems to be in the main 
little difference in the financial standing of the families buying 
on cash and on instalment. It is in fact more often from 
those with small incomes that you hear the emphatic statement, 
" 1 won't buy anything unless 1 have cash for it." It is largely a 
question of thrift and the will power to wait for things till the 
money is in hand. While the most frequent purchases are such 
expensive articles as pianos, sewing machines and couches, with 
some families everything even to blankets, curtains, and clothes 
are bought in this way. Some married people even start their 
housekeeping on this basis, though the more thrifty among them 
put off the wedding day till the money is ready. One young 
couple began life in a three-room tenement, equipped with preten- 
tious furniture for which they had paid cash. The woman showed 
me the "mahogany" bed set, elaborately carved, the dining room 
furniture and a good kitchen range, which she assured me were 
purchased at reasonable prices for cash, the two sets costing re- 
spectively 1 136 and |6o. The bride, who is very proud of them, 
feels that they justify the delay in marriage. As she k only 
seventeen now, one can quite agree with her. There is little 
danger that people whose work is as steady as is usual in Home- 
stead, will be unable to keep up pajmients, and I learned of no 
instances where furniture was taken for failure to pay. However, 
the decision to buy a new piece of furniture is often a matter 

85 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

for grave consideration, and an unattractive home may be a sign, 
not of indifference, but of actual inability to pay for anything 
beyond the merest necessities. 

Again, if the need for economy in fuel is too insistent, front 
rooms are left unheated, and bedrooms have no stoves. While the 
picture often conjured up of the whole family gathered about the 
kitchen table in the evening is delightful, the custom has some 
drawbacks. It is hard to do "home work" when the baby cries; 
it is harder still to do one's courting under the family eye; it is 
hardest of all to develop mentally or spiritually when solitude is 
impossible. While these disadvantages result from overcrowding, 
we must remember that an economy in fuel also which makes 
some of the rooms useless during the winter months has the same 
results. 

The same desire for social sanction which finds expression 
in the ambition to have a well furnished parlor affects the ex- 
penditures for clothes. The woman referred to earlier who did 
not save because she wanted her children to dress as well as others 
exemplifies the strength of this desire. Providing clothes is an 
ever present task to many women, especially to those with growing 
daughters. One woman who had a home to keep on |2.oo a day 
achieved remarkable results in economical and attractive attire 
by buying remnants at bargain sales and making them herself into 
tasteful dresses. She was rewarded by the pleasure given to her 
three girls, — ^yet the strain of overwork in the long run wore her 
out, mind and body. It is not fair to look only at results and not 
count the cost, to say that because women can keep attractive 
homes on low wages we are justified in expecting them to do so, 
unless we know what may be the physical and mental outcome 
of their struggle. 

Some leeway in household purchases is a definite help to 
overburdened housewives. For example, under minor house- 
keeping expenses is included not only the item of kitchen utensils, 
washing materials, etc., but also of personal service. To pay for 
sewing is possible only in rare instances, so clothes are either made 
at home or bought ready-made. Except in families having an 
income of over |20, the washing is rarely done out, unless there 
is sickness. Housework may be materially lightened by the use 

86 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

of gas instead of coal, and in Homestead, with its supply of natural 
gas, the relative cost is not great, — only thirty cents a thousand 
cubic feet. But even with care its use for baking, washing and 
ironing, as well as heating, makes the bills grow, and an income of 
|i2 a week does not permit a gas bill of I2.50 a month, — that of 
one careful housekeeper, — nor the purchase of gas ranges. Again, 
I15 washing machines, which families with larger incomes fre- 
quently have, serve to lighten the tedious task of keeping clothes 
clean in a smoky mill town. Incidentally, they make it possible 
for the man to help, since not uncommonly "the mister" when 
working at night "turns the machine" before going to bed in the 
morning. In one family the husband had attached it to the 
hydrant so that the water served as motive power and turned the 
machine while the woman attended to her other duties, — a great 
advance over the back-breaking washboard. These four items, 
then, of fuel, furniture, clothing and housekeeping expenses, rep- 
resent specifically the financial problems the woman must meet. 
To reduce them is her special economy, and freedom to increase 
them relieves her in part of that monotonous and constant strug- 
gle to make the home attractive on the man's earnings. 

One interesting point in Table 25 (page 84), is that expenses 
incurred for health (which may well be grouped with these other 
home expenditures) count as a luxury to be indulged in only with 
increasing income. When, for instance, a child is ill, the state of 
the pocket-book, no less than the seriousness of the disease, deter- 
mines whether the doctor shall be called. Tonics for the rundown 
in spring time are dispensed with in a laborer's home. Perhaps 
the tendency in this direction that is most serious in its results, 
is the custom of relying upon midwives in confinement. While 
this is more frequent among the foreigners (the abuses associated 
with it will be referred to in Chapter XI), many English-speaking 
women call in midwives because their fees are much smaller and 
because they help in the housework. There are no visiting nurses 
in Homestead whose assistance can be secured for an hour or so. 

Under " Sundries " (Table 24) are grouped not only miscel- 
laneous items which fall under no other head, but those that 
might be called the social expenses of the household ; those which 

87 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

enable it to bear its part in the community life, — expenses for 
church, education, newspapers, and recreation of all sorts. Two 
accounts taken at random will illustrate the variety of needs to 
be met by this allowance. In one colored family where the man 
earns |2.io a day the expenditure of 1 1.65 a week was as follows: 
Candy, I.05; toys, | .20; garden seeds, |.ii; carfare, I.12; 
postage, 1 .01 ; school, | .30; church, |i.oo. In another family 
where there are six children, and the income was about I3.00 a 
day, the expense for sundries for a week was but | .70: Candy, 
1.09; carfare, | .20; lunches away from home, I.14; shoe 
polish, etc., 1 .08; bird .seed, | .02; repairing wringer, I.12; 
amusements, | .05. 

Fortunately public school education is not a direct expense 
to the household in this country, but outlays for newspapers, 
books and, in Homestead, membership in the Carnegie Qub are 
to be included. Many people take one of the two local papers 
which, though they contain the more important general news, 
are largely devoted to town matters, including a good deal of 
neighborhood gossip. The second-rate stories and anecdotes on 
the inside pages form a substitute for cheap magazines. These 
papers, while possibly financially independent are, as far as I 
could see, over-loyal to that industry which has created the town's 
prosperity and are lamentably weak as exponents of the real 
sentiments of the workers. The dues of I2.00 a year in the Car- 
negie Club, entitling one to membership in all classes, are within 
the reach of almost all, and probably do not deter many from 
joining. Library books are free and good current magazines, 
including those treating of the manufacture of iron and steel, are 
in the library. The members of the family, therefore, may have 
books to read, even if they cannot buy them for the home. What- 
ever education the town offers is practically free to all. 

A second expense included in sundries is that for church 
support. In a recent book entitled Christianity and the Social 
Crisis,'*' the author reminds us that modem industrial conditions 
have made it practically impossible to obey the old command 
that a tenth of the income should be devoted to the church. 

* Rauschenbusch, Walter: Christianity and the Social Crisis. New York, 
The Macmillan Company, 1908. 

88 



A Nickelodeon A' 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

If only these narrow margins remain for amusements, education, 
church and sundries, obviously a tenth for church is quite out of 
the question. One reason, Mr. Rauschenbusch claims, why the 
church has lost its hold on working people, is because they cannot 
afford their share in its maintenance. In the cities this burden 
is sometimes assumed by the members of wealthy churches who 
support mission chapels, but in Homestead there is no such group 
to depend upon if the working people cannot themselves support 
the churches. The family whose item for sundries included |i.oo 
for church was an enthusiastic and pious colored family, but 
except among this race and among the Slavs the contributions 
for church were pitifully small, rarely more than a few cents for 
Sunday school. Upon examining the budgets one realizes why 
church suppers and other similar methods of raising money under 
the guise of amusements are frequently necessary. 

Under sundries come all purely recreational expenditures. 
In another chapter are described some of the opportunities for 
play and festivity which are open to Homestead people. When 
we note that during the period studied, the families whose budgets 
ran between |i2 and I15 a week allowed themselves on the aver- 
age but 1 1. 23 for all sundries, we see how small an amount can be 
free at this and lower levels for what could be called amusements. 
Ten cents a week for the nickelodeon or for candy, a car ride to the 
country once in a while, — these are the possibilities which seem 
open to mothers and children depending on a day laborer's pay. 

Thus far we have considered the costs of shelter, food, 
clothing, and other ordinary charges for maintaining a home, 
together with some few further expenditures growing out of the 
family's relation to the world about it. Its plans for the future 
next concern us. This is my third category under marginal ex- 
penditures, and includes provision for the contingencies of death, 
sickness, and lack of work. The problems these may present to 
the household are readily illustrated. 

The Petersons, an American family of five had, with gen- 
uine thrift, saved enough to buy their own home and also nad 
started a bank account. The man was a skilled workman 
and earned over |2o a week. A long illness brought them to 
dependence on their savings and the sick benefits from two 

89 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

lodges. For two months their accounts were kept, when their 
expenditures had fallen from |2o to I9.35 a week. These 
weeks averaged as follows: Food, I4.38; fuel, | .40; cloth- 
ing, I141; furniture, | .08; housekeeping expenses, | .20; 
insurance, 1 1. 20; tobacco, | .13; medicine, | .60; sundries, 
1.95. 

The Webers's income dropped off with the hard times. 
This thrifty German household had a comfortable four-room 
house with running water for which they paid I15 a month. 
The man was a skilled worker in the mill who earned ordina- 
rily I4.00 a day. For four weeks, however, in which they kept 
account for me, his earnings amounted in all to but 1^5, and 
this had to suffice for a family of six. They had to let part 
of the rent remain unpaid and with this credit added in, 
their total weekly expenditures averaged 1 10.48 or f 1.49 a 
day. Some relatives who were less pinched helped with food, 
which accounts for the extremely low table expenditure. 
Their expenses were as follows: Rent, I3.75; food, I2.94; 
clothing, 1 .27; housekeeping expenses, | .06; insurance, 
I2.52; tobacco, 1 . 1 5 ; liquor, | .20; sundries, | .59. 

These figures will give some hint of the drastic way in which 
a temporary emergency cuts down a wage-earner's income and 
cuts out of a family's expenditures all but the most essential items. 
With the customary regularity of work in the mill, however, 
anxiety for the future in Homestead usually focuses itself on the 
possible sickness or death of the breadwinner. The usual way in 
which working people prepare for these two emergencies is by 
insurance. It is noticeable that the tendency of the insurance 
item in the budgets is to increase less rapidly than total expen- 
ditures (Table 25, page 84) ; this form of provision for the future, 
therefore, is counted a necessity in Homestead. Both fraternal and 
regular insurance are carried. Of the men in the budget families 
57.8 per cent held memberships in lodges; 43.3 per cent had 
policies in regular companies ;'*' 11 men held two policies, 10 

* The social features of lodge membership, to be discussed later, undoubtedly 
create a preference for insurance in fraternal orders rather than in commerciau 
companies; but cheaper rates are also partly responsible for the larger percentage 
insuring in the former. The question which, of course, arises as to whether these 
low rates are consistent with saStty is too laige to discuss here. The people them- 
selves have usually unbounded faith in their reliability, though I was told of at 
least one order which had failed. 

90 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

TABLE 26. — NUMBER OF PERSONS INSURED IN 90 BUDGET FAMI- 
LIES AND PER CENT OF FAMILIES CARRYING INSURANCE.* — BY 
EXPENDITURE CROUP 





ToLtl 
Fam- 
iUei 


Companies 


Lodges 


Nttmhaof 
Families 


,.^ 


"^r 


Men 

Imuftd 


Otbiri 
Insurtd 


Mtnin 
Lodges 


Otitrs 
iJdgi. 




Under 1 11.00 
»i2.oo~» 14.99 ■ 
?i 5.00-119.99 . 
|30.oo and over . 


19 


9 


1 


'I 
18 


■4 


36 

'4 
33 
'5 


8..J 
87-S 
79.0 


Total . . 


90 


(«'?%) 


62 


lA) 


47 


77 


«>■> 



TABLE 27. — NUMBER OF PERSONS IN 90 BUDGET FAMILIES IN- 
SURED IN REGULAR COMPANIES AND LODGES.— BY RACIAL 
GROUP 



■ It was difficult to secare accurate statements as to the aniount of the policies 
since, in some instances, industrial insurance and lodge insurance vary with the 
lei^b of time a policy has been runninc. Often the families themselves did not 

know the exact amount. No attempt has eeen made, therefore, todassifyin 

by the amount of the policies. 



9' 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

three, two four, and two five. The two groups overlap, so that 
altogether 85.6 per cent of the budget families carried insurance 
in one form or another. In no expenditure group did the per- 
centage fall below 80. 

Among these families the amount expended for insurance, 
as well as the proportionate number insuring, increases with 
income until the group spending over |20 per week is reached. 
The lower percentage in the latter group may indicate that the 
families are better able to rely on savings, and find insurance 
less essential for burial and sickness expenses. Most of the 
policies held in this group called for materially larger death 
benefits. It is of interest to note that the two nationalities in 
which the largest proportion of families carried some form of 
insurance were the Slavs and the colored. Most of the Slavs 
carried insurance in lodges rather than in the commercial com- 
panies. Some reasons for this we shall see in our later discussion 
of the Slavic community life. 

One reason why workingmen's families feel so keenly the 
need of insuring can be shown by the roll of accidents reported in 
the Homestead paper for three typical months, January, February, 
and March, 1907.* Fifty-two men were injured during that period 
in the Homestead mill, and 13 others who lived in Homestead at 
the time of the accident, were injured in mills of the United 
States Steel Corporation outside of Homestead. Of this total of 
65, seven died. Of the remaining 58, 30, or a little over half, 
suffered such injuries as crushed feet, lacerated hands, sprained 
ankles, — injuries for the most part that laid them up for at least 
a week or two. But there were more serious accidents — ^three 
men had a leg or an arm broken, two had an arm amputated, 

* In May, 1908, a central committee was appointed by the United States 
Steel G>rporation to co-ordinate and improve the work of eliminating preventable 
accidents on the part of constituent companies. The Carnegie Steel G>mDany 
had been one of the most active in this neld in the year preening. The Com- 
pany's inspector stated in the spring of 1908 that in seven months he had made 
two thousand recommendations tor increasing the safety of men. Dunne the past 
two years there has been a systematic development of this work. It is but fairly 
begun, however, and aside from preventable accidents, there are many which are 
inevitable because of the nature of the work. For a further discussion of the 
causes and results of accidents in the steel industry, see Work-Accidents and the 
Law, by Crystal Eastman, a companion volume u the series of the Pittsbuigh , 
Survey. 

93 



BB1 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 



Aadj^l^iofl 


Md 


k3- 


rigkt 


taa^ 


twiiill wb'lt 


a« « 


•rk 


• a« 


Mil 


pmAwitr ■ontiBC. 






_^^ 



r Ikylor. af 
ftght Ibal tmtmmt wm» ■• 



• • • 



Jobs RrMoC. of WUtakcr. had b 
rlgfet vrlat ■fnlaaa vhlto ai 
IB Ito M iBCh BlU 



HOT lETilL Fai HI 
WAe MO EXPUOEO 



at t OTMOCk M 



tTto 



Mr tte a 
af at eoUMlMi ttHM tM 
MM «t cte 
«ai*d la ■ pool of 
tnk^ «9lodtac wllk loa« 

a larga ala 
«« la raak'io A* oeMib Ma 
t^mial tei a 
fov wmi (roB tka lyii 
^11 ■ III 



iuwph (toTic. ot Ranaa vmm. irl 
aaflOriac traiB cobIvm* woaada of| 
Um l«(t jpM' lacMvad «bil* U • 
la..ito n lack jbOI y»*t« 



^ iwo lEN huue 

OY 



Jaika JaOTN «( WBlalMr WIK-, 



■■abaB. to aaCartas 
o tka ahoaMcr 
«kUa at •ark la tt» I& 



tojani Waahdb 
•a.tha »a iach Hlii iHt 
Jobs Jaaath. of WMukw 
War. VH Mi abaat «b« bMd aa« 

ba47. •■« J«ba HaM Mt » 4ba 
Mb ««n «f«i 
Ileal attaatMiraai MM 



ten were wounded about the face and head, the eyes of four 
were hurt, eight re- 
ceived internal injur- 
ies, and one was par- 
alyzed. The accom- 
panying clippings 
show minor injuries 
reported in the Home- 
stead papers for two 
weeks when the plant 
was working only part 
time. They further 
illustrate how con- 
stantly the men are 
confronted with 
danger. 

Along with other 
employes of the Car- 
negie Steel Com- 
pany — in Duquesne, 
Braddock and else- 
where — the men in 
the Homestead mills 
have benefited by 
the Carnegie Relief 
Fund of |4,ooo,ooo 
given in trust in 
1 90 1, "to provide 
for the employes of 
the Carnegie Com- 
pany ... in- 
jured in its service 
and for those de- 
pendent upon such 
employes as are 
killed." This gift 
was made by An- 
drew Carnegie at the 

93 



rrank Stala hatf ajiMnr 
^tlht feaia laemta«<'«A^j 



jA 




nagbtaaatb ava- 



Hiabaai Kaa«. of 
jaaa, bad bla rl«ht baafl batt 
at work la tba Bill r«uar«a7 



fOBEIMIt UEO 
XT Sm WOBKSl 



W.' N. OrMftort. • ftiwiMH'.lB' tba 
ui tach adtt, SMk vtth a palalU aa> 
ttStat (Ma Bonlaot Wbito «alj|ac 
ttrooi^ tba artll ba Mil tit* kdte aa« 
a ooataalo» of f ba My «at 
AH* bla iBlMtoavara tnaa* 
ad bf tba eoApaay pbyMekai ba war 
jfbla ta ■» to bia biSBM ea Nlatb $e*^ 
mm, MaabalL , 



Joba Braaa a 




bArfia Ml baatf 

worK^ Iba Ua lack 



'iStm: poylc. at Kteraafk aiaaat 
maioa. la mlfarlnc 
wooada ot tba baek. raealtdtvbUa 
work ja Iha bUU 



vbUa at 1 



Tboataa dallttMirf. of WhiUk«r 
War. «a« «aa laiaiad la tba mill 
aoaia tlaia ago» la iBprorlac alewls 

JMnus tfaov -ww adtvttiK fb« 
ExeaMor olaaCo.' 4rklab be ki.a aam 
bar At bla botf* tfb ,BcA fxidajr avta 
"««. ___^ 



FRACnmiD ms 'AMI. 
PvtM- Morrla. a veU kaova dtS- 
tt of ISK lUflaa afaraat. vaa a vlo> 
tin of a pamfai aceidaot jraitcrday 
aftantooa at 9 o'clock, wklla a« work 
la tba atcd vorka Ha «af a«}nat- 
lag • plpa la tka » lack ailU la tba 
beilar booa^ vbao ba k»t 
aad fall Crma a plaUona ta 
iroaad bab>« vllb 
fraetara bto. lalf 
«a to tba oBet 'of tba ooawaay >by- 
alclaaa. vbara l^a raealTad'aMdleat at- 
tanUoB and araa latar laaiawad la 
Uarcr boapltaL 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

time of the organization of the United States Steel Corporation, 
a "first use of surplus wealth upon retiring from business, as an 
acknowledgment of the debt which I owe to the workmen who 
have contributed so greatly to my success." The fund was 
not intended as a substitute for compensation on the part of 
the company. It was intended, to quote Mr. Carnegie, "to go 
still further and give to the injured, or employes who were 
needy in old age, some provision against want as long as 
needed, or until young children can become self-supporting."* 
Under this fund the sum of I500 has been paid to the widow 
of each workman killed, with |ioo additional for every child 
under sixteen. To the family of a single man killed, I500 
has been paid wherever it has been shown that he was a reg- 
ular contributor to the support of the family. When damage 
suits have been brought against the company, these benefits 
have been withheld, but only until the cases were decided. 
The original plan provided benefits also for all injuries causing 
disability for more than two weeks, but these proved more 
numerous than the fund could deal with, and beginning in 
1905, benefits have been paid from the fund only in cases 
where the injuries resulted in disability lasting more than one 
year, and in such cases benefits have been paid only until the 
injured man could get work. Thus, if a man who had lost a leg 
secured a job as watchman, his benefits ceased. In 1907, the 
fund paid employes in the Homestead works 1 1 1 ,398 (38 cases) 
in death benefits, 12,583 (7 cases) in accident benefits, and 
14,756 (36 cases) in pension allowances. Thirty families who re- 
ceived death benefits, six who received accident benefits, and 21 
who received pension allowances, were still resident in Homestead. 
The Carnegie Relief Fund has been the most notable volun- 
tary provision against the hazards of work covering any group of 
employes in the Pittsburgh District. Its importance is shown by 
the fact that in the case of 42 married men killed in the Carnegie 
Company's employ in Allegheny County in twelve months in 
1906-7, the company paid less than I500 in 35 instances (about 
the treatment customary among the employers of the district). 
With the Carnegie Relief benefits added, I500, or over, was re- 

*See Appendix XI, p. 24;. 

94 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

ceived by 3 1 out of the 42.* But as three-quarters of the cases, 
even with this addition, received less than |iooo, it is clear that 
the bulk of the burden of lost income still fell upon the families 
of the killed workmen. 

In injury cases, as stated, aid has been available from the fund 
only when disability lasted for more than a year. The company 
has frequently paid the hospital billsf and sometimes made a 
donation, but in a great majority of these cases, even those that 
have meant six or nine months of idleness, the families could 
not count on any stated assistance. ;{; For household expenses 

^ABLE A. — Compensation Paid by Carnegie Steel Company to Widows of 43 
Employes Killed in Allegheny Co., Pennsylvania, July i, 1906, 

TO June 30, 1907 
Number of Families AmoufU Paid 

10 o 

17 f 100 or less 

8 f loi tof 500 

3 ¥501 to f 1000 

2 flOOI to $2000 

2 Over f 2000 

Table B. — Compensation Received by 42 Widows Entered in Table A, Plus 

Carnegie Relief Benefits 
Number of Families Amouni Received 

I o 

5 f 100 or less 

; f 101 tof 500 

20 ¥501 to f 1000 

'8 Iiooi to 12000 

3 Over $2000 

From Eastman: Work-Accidents and the Law, pp. 160- 161. 

t A Homestead Hospital was organized in 1907 but the movement received 
no encouragement from the Carnegie Company. In addition to contributions 
from residents and organizations in the town, it received a state appropriation 
from the legislature. It suffers from the handicap of any small hospital, that with a 
small number of cases it cannot secure the best appliances or the services of spe- 
cialists. Within the last two years the Gamegie Steel Company has put up, near 
the mill, a one-story emergency hospital with an operating room and two or three 
beds. Here cases can be treated that require only immediate attention or that are 
not in condition to be earned to the West Pennsylvania Hospital in Pittsburgh. 

{ In April, 19 10, announcements were made of sweeping changes establish- 
ing a stated system of relief. The $4,000,000 of the Cam^e Relief Fund has been 
united with an |8,ooo,ooo fund set aside by the United States Steel Corporation 
and will be used to provide pensions for superannuated workmen. Distinct from 
this the Corporation announced a plan for the relief of injured workmen and the 
resident families of those killed in work-accidents (for details see Appendix XII, 
p. 249) which provides far more adequately for these emergencies, ihe amounts 
^ven, however, do not make up for the income loss entailed by death or permanent 
injury. They afford a systematic scheme of relief from want due directly to in- 
dustrial causes, but insurance must remain an important item in the family budget, 
as a safeguard a^^ainst natural causes of death, and also if a family's standard of 
living is to be maintained subsequent to serious or fatal accident to the breadwinner. 

95 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

during such periods they have had to depend on savings, the 
help of friends, or on sick benefits. Therefore, for protection 
to their families against death and injuries they have turned to 
insurance. One woman told of a serious accident her husband 
suffered in the mill in the first year of her married life. He was 
unable to work for three months and during that time the I12.50 
a week he received from three benefit orders supported the family. 
"My baby came then," she added feelingly, "and if it had not 
been for that money, I could not have bought clothes for her." 
The frequent accidents, moreover, have tended to keep insurance 
rates high in Homestead so far as the men are concerned. Not 
long ago one of the largest industrial insurance companies, the 
Prudential, made a first-hand investigation of work hazards in 
steel mills in order to put its policy rates on a sound footing. 
With the exception of superintendents and office men, it no 
longer accepts steel workers as first-class risks.* 

Among the budget groups the average weekly insurance 
payments ranged from | .70 to 1 1 .86. To put in concrete form 
what such weekly insurance expenditure means in actual benefits 
for the family, we find in the Home Guards, for example, 
that a weekly premium of | .35 for a man whose occupation puts 
him in an intermediate grade, allows a sick or accident benefit of 
|i3.5ofor 16 weeks, a compensation of I525 for the loss of two 
eyes or two limbs, with benefits for lesser accidents in propor- 
tion, and a death benefit of 1 150. In the Modem Woodmen or 
the Royal Arcanum a premium of about 1.15a week provides 
a death benefit of |iooo. That is, for | .50 a week a family can 
partially safeguard itself against the loss from sickness or death 
of the man, while if there are a wife and three children in the 
family an additional | .25 to | .40 is necessary, to provide even for 
their funeral expenses. So nearly one dollar a week is required 
to make modest provisionf against these contingencies, — a large 

* See Appendix X, p. 243. Another insurance company which has 3800 
industrial policy holders in Homestead states that it makes no extra charge 
because of the occupation. 

t Compare the English workmen's compensation act which provides that 
in case of death the family shall receive the equivalent of three years' wages. This 
for a man earning f 12 a week would equal ¥1872; for a man earning $15 a week, 
I2340. 

96 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

proportion of a wage of |i2 or I15 a week. Only those families 
whose expenditures averaged 1 17. 59 per week felt that they could 
spend as much as that. 

It is significant that with the exception of three Slavs, all 
the families continued their insurance payments during the period 
of depression. One woman told me that her husband could not 
afford to keep up his membership in his lodge though they con- 
tinued to carry their company insurance, but I heard of no English- 
speaking people who discontinued payments entirely. Saving in 
any other form during this time was an impossibility, but families 
€ven when drawing money from the bank kept up their insurance. 

The marked absence of savings in these budgets was, of 
course, inevitable during such a period of slack work. As the mills 
had hardly shut down at all for fifteen years, the need for saving 
for periods of idleness had not been an ever present one to 
the minds of the people. But the thriving business done by the 
four savings banks in Homestead in ordinary times indicates that 
there is popular sentiment in support of this form of thrift. Four 
from which figures were secured had on September i, 1907, 
total deposits amounting to |2, 1 79,624. I was unable to secure 
definite data as to the number of budget families having bank ac- 
counts, since this was one point on which 1 found people reticent. 
At least ten of those whom slack work threw out of employment, 
drew on savings funds. The amounts spent in purchase of homes, 
which were discussed in a previous chapter, are of course another 
form of savings. Thirteen budget families owned homes and 
five were buying them under mortgage. 

There was no evidence, however, of any such wide-spread 
provision through savings for old age, non-employment, high 
school education, or other use, as there was for sickness, injury 
or death. For all these latter contingencies provision may be 
made through insurance policies or lodge memberships; such 
provision for the future is deemed a necessity; and however in- 
adequate in amount, it is practically universal in all grades and 
groups. But however strong the desire for money savings may 
be, it appears that with only a small margin above the sum 
deemed necessary for essentials, most families in the lower wage 
groups must face a choice between some present comforts and 
7 97 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

enjoyments and the peace of mind which a bank account gives. 
Yet in Homestead, as elsewhere, the advantages of such a margin 
of ready money are only too apparent. No individual family 
income keeps always at its maximum; sick benefits do not equal 
wages; cuts in rates are declared without warning, and occasionally 
comes a time like the winter of 1907-8 when the whole town has 
to face the problems that arise when the mills are running only 
part time. Not only were men out of work, but lodgers were 
unable to pay their rent. Families who had had washing done 
out or a woman come in to clean retrenched by doing this work 
themselves. The entire town, therefore, was affected by the partial 
shutdown of its one industry. 

A number of the budget families suffered from this tempo- 
rary decrease of income. To meet it, expenditures in many house- 
holds were cut to the quick, money that had been saved was 
taken from the bank, and food was purchased on credit. In one 
family, for instance, two accounts were kept; one when the man 
was working full time, the other when his pay was reduced by half. 
The contrast shows that the reduction fell heavily on kitchen ex- 
penses (which means an increase in the woman's work), on recrea- 
tion, and on sundries. 



table 28. — expenditures of a family for one week in 1907 
(normal times) and in 1908 (time of depression) 



Yeof 


4 


1 


2 


1 




1 


1 


ialment 
Home 


1 


s 

«• 


1 


2 

1 


1 




J^ 
iti 









r 


«o 


«2 


^5 




*x. 




^ 


«s 


1907 (Man 




working 




























full time) 


|i8.79l5->9 


1.82 1 1.00 


r'7 


I2.43 


f.93 


I5.00 


*-53 


1. 19 


1.67 


»-5" 


?i.36 


1908 (Man 




























working 




























half time) 


10.63 


3.85 


73 


1.00 


.01 


• • 


• • 


4.02 


.11 


• • 


.1 1 


•49 


•3« 



One woman said, "I believe in cutting things according 
to my cloth. What we can't afford to pay for now, we won't 
have." In another family the usual income of 1 19 a week was 

98 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

temporarily reduced to ^.lo, an additional I4.72 being obtained 
on credit. This I4.72 was the entire amount spent for food for a 
family of eleven. During this period, however, they expended 
weekly I2.80 for insurance, |2.oo a week for the man's spending 
money and carfare (they lived in a suburb), I2.75 for rent, | .32 
for tobacco, | .82 for gas. Aside from these regular weekly items 
their total sundry expenditure for the month consisted of coal hod 
and fender, |i.io; a lantern, | .25; candy, | .05; a child's coat, 
I1.98; a pair of stockings, | .10; matches, soap, blueing, etc., 
1.65. 

Apart from economies in all lines, the chief dependence 
of these families in supplementing the man's lessened earnings 
was credit. Forty-six families were depending upon it for either 
food or rent. 

TABLE 29. — BUDGET FAMILIES WHOSE INCOME INCLUDED MONEY 
DRAWN FROM THE BANK OR GOODS SECURED ON CREDIT. — 
BY EXPENDITURE AND RACIAL GROUP 



Income Group 


Slav 


Eng. Sp. Eur. 


Nat. White 


COLORBD 


Credit 


Bank 


Credit 


Bank 


Credit 


Bank 


Credit 


Bank 


Under 1 12.00 
1 12.00-^14.99 

i15.00-l19.99 . 
$20.00 and over . 


9 

3 

3 

2 


2 


2 
2 


3 

3 
I 




• • 

• • 

I 



3 

1 

3 

4 




m m 

1 

2 


5 

3 

3 



• • 

• • 

• • 

• ■ 


Total . 


17 


6 


7 


I 


11 


3 


II 


• • 



The conditions of town life probably enabled people to resort 
to credit more than would have been the case in a larger city. 
Since the entire town is dependent on the steel industry, the men 
could not find other work in Homestead and were unwilling to 
take the uncertain chance of obtaining it elsewhere in a dull 
season. There was, moreover, the recurring probability that the 
mills would soon resume their normal output. Nor could the 
women find employment. On the other hand, both landlords and 
grocers knew their customers personally and therefore granted 
credit freely to the trustworthy. They felt that the confidence 

99 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

thus created would help their trade when better times came. 
Grocers particularly taxed their credit to the utmost, saying 
that they would trust their regular customers as long as the 
wholesalers would trust them. 

The amounts actually purchased in this way make one realize 
how appallingly behindhand wage-earning families get during 
long-continued hard times. For example, the 32 families with 
an income of less than |i2 a week secured an average credit per 
family of I1.09 a week for food; those with |i2 to I14, I1.45; 
those with I15 to I19, | .87, those receiving |2o and over, | .78. 
The native whites bought an average of only | .27 worth on credit, 
but the Slavs bought an average of I1.57; the English-speaking 
Europeans, I1.34; the colored, |i.oi. As the depression lasted 
for more than a year, months would have to elapse before the 
families could wipe out their accumulated indebtedness. One 
woman in May, 1908, told me that she already had a bill of I75, 
with prosperous times still a long way off. 

In these emergencies, neighbors quietly helped each other; 
but a local relief committee found that few of the older residents 
would come to them for assistance, however unostentatiously given. 

It was then by means of household economies and by going 
into debt, that the majority of families, whose men were wholly 
or partly out of work, met the hard times which came to Home- 
stead. But we must recognize that these economies often meant 
physical hardship and that the accumulated credit was to be a 
burden which it would take months to wipe out; that spent 
savings put off for a long time the buying of the house and that 
children perhaps had to give up another year in school. 

The question of how far the present should be sacrificed in 
order to guard against future emergencies is raised sharply by 
such a period of hard times. That savings are eaten up and 
families thrust into debt by long periods of slack work are facts 
bound up in the general problems of industrial prosperity and 
depression.* But that after fifteen years of almost steady work, 

* The United States^Steel Corporation stood out strongly against a general 
reduction in wages in the industry during the depression. In January, iqi^, the 
Carnegie Steel Company, however, reduced rates in most of the skilled depart- 
ments at Homestead. The plate mill men, for example, received reductions of 
from 3 to 22 per cent. 

100 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

so many families, especially in the lower earnings group, should 
be so unprepared to weather the hard times, raises questions both 
as to the sufficiency of the normal wages and as to the foresight 
of the wage-earners. 

What, we may well ask, do savings cost the family of a wage- 
earner who earns less than I3.00 a day ? Are they readily possible 
without discomfort or meagreness of living, or do they come out 
of a food supply none too large to furnish adequate nourish- 
ment? Do they come out of what should go for the amusements 
essential alike to mind and body ? 

' Only an exhaustive study of great numbers of budgets 
could answer these questions with any finality. The decision in 
individual cases between present pleasures and provision for the 
future seems to be partly due to experience and partly to tem- 
perament. One woman told me the story of the early experiences 
of hard poverty she and her husband had endured as children. 
She was the child of a widow employed in a factory, and he was 
one of a big family on a farm where all had worked early and late. 
And now though he is on tonnage rates they save nothing. Aside 
from her husband's heavy insurance, their money goes for present 
pleasures and comforts, with a conscious enjoyment possible 
only to those who have had to do without. With no children to 
make the future a problem, they have definitely chosen the plea- 
sures of the passing moment. An occasional trip to the theatre, 
plenty of good clothes, company for meals, — the money goes fast 
enough. In marked contrast is the expenditure of an American 
family of five who have the same income. Their house is smaller, 
and their festivities are less numerous; besides carrying heavy 
insurance, they are saving to buy a home, and at the same time 
are giving the daughter music lessons. Their average weekly ex- 
penditure was as follows: Rent, I2.54; food, |8.6o; clothing, 
f 2.24; furniture, 1 .84; household expenses, | .19; insurance, I3.02; 
education, I.65; church, I.28; recreation, I.23; tobacco, |.ii; 
medicine, | .29; sundries, | .43. During the period the account 
was kept, their savings did not average half a dollar a week. 

Interesting as they are, however, such individual cases offer 
little more than a glimpse of the personal equations involved. 
The average expenditures in the various groups are more repre- 

lOI 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

sentative as indications and enable us to state the problem with 
more accuracy. For we have now reached a point where we can 
recapitulate our 90 budgets, and see more clearly what they indi- 
cate as to the round of possible expenditures open to average 
households run at each of the expenditure levels. 

In the lowest expenditure group of budget families, the 
average weekly outlay was ^9.17, and the averages for the items 
were: 

Rent. ^ .f 1.88 Insurance. .f .70 

Food 4.16 Tobacco 07 

Fuel 38 Liquor 20 

Clothing 04 Medicine 10 

Furniture 09 Other expenses . .50* 

Household expenses . .15 

We have certain standards of physical necessities by which 
to test what may be secured for given amounts. For example, 
rent at |i.88 a week is less than |8.oo a month. In the Slavic 
district 1 found that |8.oo was the cost of the two-room tene- 
ments without improvements, facing on courts. Of the budget 
families in this group only about a third had running water in the 
house, and in two-thirds of these homes there were two or more 
persons to the room. This certainly is below the minimum stand- 
ard of comfort or health even for a laborer's family. 

In the chapter on food expenditures, we found that 22 
cents per man per day is the minimum for which a skilful house- 
keeper can provide food sufficient to maintain physical well- 
being. Thirteen out of 32 families in this group were actually 
spending less than the minimum of 22 cents. For the average 
family in the group, the expenditure of I4. 16 a week furnished just 
this amount. For families of normal size, however, — ^father, 
mother and three children under fourteen, — this weekly expen- 
diture would allow but 18 cents per man per day. 

These average allowances for food and shelter are inade- 
quate for normal standards. They include no excess from which 
the sum available for the remaining items might be increased. 

* See Table 24, p. 84. For expenditures of 28 house-renting families in this 
expenditure group, see Table 10, page 45. The situation would not be mate- 
rially altered if we had taken the average expenditures of the house renters as a 
basis for our discussion. 

102 



On the Outskirts: Munhall Hollow and its smoke-blighted trees in Jur 



In the Crowded Section; Three families sliare the house and si 
Where Rknts ake Cheap 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

Yet as we analyze the I3.1 1 a week remaining after food and rent 
have been secured, we find it obviously inadequate to provide 
wholesome living. The needs of the future are recognized in an 
elemental way in the 70 cents a week for insurance. For 50 cents 
a week, as we have seen, the man could through fraternal orders 
secure a death benefit of 1 1000 and four months' sick benefit yearly, 
leaving only 20 cents a week toward burial insurance for his wife 
and children. 

According to the estimate made by Mr. Chapin in New York, 
1 1 00 a year is the smallest amount that will supply sufficient cloth- 
ing for a family. Here clothing expenditure for the weeks studied 
was less than half this sum. Yet even so, there would remain only 
1 1. 50 a week to cover all family expenditures for fuel, furniture, 
recreation and liquor, for support of the church, for newspapers 
and magazines, to say nothing of savings for sickness or hard times. 
We find then that the average expenditure of this lowest group of 
families, ^.17, could not supply in Homestead a "living" for a 
family in its simplest meanings. The objection may be made that 
as many of these families were, at the time of the study, living on 
less than theif ordinary wages, these figures (though they are to 
be deplored as a level to which the family of a workman may be 
depressed even in hard times) do not represent household condi- 
tions in normal years. The average weekly expenditure for these 
families, however, was but 10 cents a day less than the pre- 
vailing wages of Homestead laborers in 1907-8, — f .16J an hour 
for a ten-hour day, or ^.90 for a six-day week.* Under the sec- 
tion on Slavs (page 140) the analysis of the actual expenditures of 
a group of laborers getting an average of |io per week, during 
the period studied, offers further indications that these earnings 
do not constitute a ''living wage" for a family. They were the 
nominal earnings of the great bulk of unskilled immigrants employed 
in the mills in the "good times" of 1907. 

In the next expenditure group (ranging from |i2 to 1 14.99) 
the average expenditure was I13.32 (Table 24, page 84). Though 

^If we apply the same percentages for the different items to this total of 
I9.Q0, we find that the expenditures for food would be I4.48 (or 19} cents per day 
per man), for rent $2.03 (which would secure a two-room tenement without im- 
provements) and a margin for other items of $3.39 as against $3.12 — differences 
too small to invalidate the conclusions reached. 

103 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

the problem of supplying the physical necessities may be less 
pressing, we find no adequate margin above them for other ex- 
penditures. The I2.29 a week spent for rent would provide 
three rooms, but without sanitary conveniences. For a family 
of five this is very close quarters; more than one-half of the fam- 
ilies in this group averaged two or more persons to the room. 
Besides the danger to health, especially in time of sickness, such 
small and crowded apartments permit no opportunity for pri- 
vacy or for social gatherings in the liome. Food at an average of 
1 5. 86 a week for the family of five persons gives an expenditure 
of 24 cents per man per day. This, as we have seen, at best 
allows little leeway for a large family or an incompetent housewife. 
In fact, four of the families in this group spent less than 22 cents. 
A margin of I5.17 is thus left for clothing, furniture, insurance, 
minor household expenses, fuel, liquor and sundries. While bud- 
gets covering a perioci of less than two months are not a sound 
basis for any conclusions as to these expenditures, the items as we 
find them are at least indicative of the ways in which the margin 
above food and shelter may be proportioned. Clothing at 1 1.57 a 
week, on Mr. Chapin's estimate, would still not provide the abso- 
lute essentials. With |io a year one could buy little furniture, 
except such as would replace linen, carpets, and curtains, and an 
occasional article tomeettheneedsofgrowingfamilies. The families 
studied here averaged less for insurance than did the lower expen- 
diture group, with its preponderance of Slavs. Similarly the other 
headings show no easy chance for economy as a means of increasing 
the amount free for sundries; yet reference to the account of the 
families on page 88 shows that the 11.23 ^ week remaining would 
be eaten up so quickly by small necessities that little would be 
left for savings or recreation. The items are a fair indication of 
what it is possible for a workingman to provide for his family out 
of I2.25 a day. The impression to be gathered from a review of 
them is unmistakably that of a sub-normal household. 

The next group (|i 5-^19.99), which had an average expendi- 
ture of 1 1 7. 59 (corresponding roughly to earnings at I3.00 a day 
for six days a week), shows a marked increase in these household 
items. Rent at I2.73 would provide a small detached four-room 
house. But it falls far short of the sum which we estimated would 

104 



OTHER expenditures: the budget as a whole 

secure sanitary conveniences and a sufficient number of rooms to 
insure privacy and the development of the home. Nine out of the 
23 families in this group were still without running water, and nine 
of the families had two or more persons per room. The rise in ex- 
penditure for food to I7. 1 1 a week, or 3 1 cents per man per day, 
gives a fair margin, though three families, in two of which there 
were seven children each, dropped again below the 22 cent 
limit. Here a balance of I7.75 is available for the rest of the 
budget. The expense for clothing is slightly above the cost 
Mr. Qiapin estimates as essential, and that for furniture about 
doubles the |io per year of the previous group. Insurance 
is also increased to the point where it would secure the modest 
provision noted on page 96, though it still fails to provide at all 
reasonably against the lost income due to the breadwinner's 
death. The gain in sundries, which have risen to I1.83 a week, 
marks our first noteworthy leeway in expenditure; it is still too 
small, as we have seen, to enable the average family to lay by any 
appreciable savings and at the same time permit itself recreations 
essential alike to mind and body. 

The group spending over |20 a week had an average expen- 
diture of I25.56 a week, or above I4.00 a day. Rent at I3.73 a 
week or |i6 a month provides a detached four-room house without 
a bathroom. A house with a bathroom can hardly be rented for 
less than |20 or I22 a month. Food at | .37 per man per day 
is plainly ample to supply necessities, and yet one or two accounts 
where this amount was spent showed no actual extravagances, if 
measured by our American standards. The expenditure for 
dothing for this period is the equivalent of 1 175 a year, for furni- 
ture {42. The amount for sundries, I4.09, is more than double 
what the previous group had to spend for these items. 

We find, that is, so far as this group of 90 family budgets 
can show us and at the range of prices current in Homestead, 
that only when earnings are 1 1 5 a week, or more, can we con- 
fidently look for a reasonable margin above the requisite expen- 
ditures for necessities. It is only in the group spending more 
than |20 that we find that the average family has reached a point 
where, without being spendthrift of the future and without undue 
pinching in other directions, they can spend enough to satisfy 

105 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

what we should recognize as the reasonable ambitions of an 
American who puts his life into his work. The household problem 
for the great number of English-speaking workmen in Homestead 
whose earnings fall between these two figures, is that of propor- 
tioning earnings so that, with the children fed and housed in such 
a fashion as to maintain physical well-being, the wife may gain 
some leisure from household cares, they may all have some share 
in the pleasures and responsibilities of the community, and may 
make such provision for future emergencies as their own experience 
and that of their neighbors show to be essential. Failure to 
attain the ideal should not be considered prima facie evidence 
of the unfitness of the family to meet its problems. 

For Homestead has its ideals, — ^ideals of a genuine home 
life for the family, if possible in a home of its own, where there 
shall be sufficient leisure and attractive enough surroundings to 
make it the center for happy lives; ideals of such security as in 
time of sickness or misfortune shall enable the home to care for 
its own. With the wages offered by the industry many of the 
workers can attain these ideals, if at all, only by unremitting work 
and inexorable compromises. We find housekeepers facing cheer- 
fully the problem of providing wholesome and attractive food, that 
shall at the same time be economical, three times a day; giving up 
even five-cent treats at the nickelodeon to save for a house. We 
find them failing often, failing through ignorance or indifference, 
but also succeeding against heavy odds. To the onlooker it is a 
brave fight, the braver that it is so full of deadly monotony, a 
fight the weapons of which are pots and pans and bargain sales. 
In its outcome, however, is bound up the happiness and efficiency 
of the next generation. 



1 06 



CHAPTER VII 
OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS 

THERE are other and more subtle factors in living together 
than rooms or meals. The place in the budget of the 
home, amusements, church going, and lodge insurance 
were discussed in the last chapter. They are also significant as 
expressions of human relationships, and in their activity and or- 
ganized forms reveal the character of the people as no account- 
book footings can reveal it. The relations of parents to each 
other, to their neighbors, and to their children, affect the develop- 
ment of household life among the people. 

Yet even these relations are in a measure determined by 
outside forces. Industrial conditions, for example, determine the 
type of family life. In the families here, the women almost 
never go out to work — 3l marked contrast to cotton mill towns, 
for instance, where wives and daughters seek employment almost 
as a matter of course. This dependence on the men's wages is 
due not primarily to any theory as to woman's sphere, but to the 
simple fact that the one industry cannot use the work of women 
and children. Moreover, in this town where there are no marked 
differences in financial status and by far the larger number of 
housewives do all their own work, there is not much opportunity 
to obtain any form of domestic service by the day. Women 
apparently think it wiser to save money by good housekeeping 
than to earn a little more and neglect the home. This feeling, 
combined with the difficulty in securing work, has developed 
the type of family in which the man's wages constitute almost the 
entire income. 

Among the English-speaking and native white budget fami- 
lies* only two women went out to do day's work. There were four 

* Appendix I, Table 3, p. 201. 
107 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

of these families who took lodgers, but since the women were 
either widows who had no other means of income, or women who 
had no children, the presence of lodgers interfered very little with 
the household life. As these families averaged only 1.2 persons 
to a room their homes were not seriously overcrowded. For the 
most part the women, relieved from the task of increasing the 
income, use their time and interest to good purpose in developing 
in their households a distinctive quality of homelikeness. 

The men are inclined to trust all financial matters to their 
wives. It is the custom in Homestead for the workman to turn 
over his wages to his wife on pay day and to ask no questions as 
to what it goes for. He reserves a share for spending money; 
otherwise his part of the family problem is to earn and hers to 
spend. When the man was at home and I suggested to him that 
they keep accounts for this investigation he usually referred the 
matter genially to the wife, saying, "Oh, she's the one that knows 
where the money goes. If she wants to help you out she can." 

Though the men show in general a frank appreciation of 
home comforts, they do not always realize all the work behind 
them. One wife said, "The only time 'the mister' notices any- 
thing about the house is when I wash the curtains." But many 
chance remarks showed that the women realize the importance of 
keeping the home attractive. One woman compared her husband, 
who stayed at home evenings unless they went to "the show" 
together, with the man next door who was always going off to 
•Pittsburgh "on a lark." Her explanation of the difference was 
simply, " I always put on a clean dress and do my hair before he 
comes home, and have the kitchen tidy so he will enjoy staying. 
But she never tidies up a bit." Her kitchen was spotless, with a 
bright geranium in the window; that of her neighbor was hot and 
mussy and the children were noisy. No wonder the husband 
did not care to stay at home; but in a small house with washing 
and cooking to do, with babies to look out for, it is often hard for 
the housekeeper to have time or energy, after the children are 
home from school and the dinner cooked, to stop and make herself 
presentable. That so many women do this is a proof of their 
energy and genuine ability. 

Supper time in Homestead will always be associated in my 

108 



OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS 

mind with one family whom I knew. When the men began to 
come from the mill in the evening the mother with a fresh 
apron on and the two children in clean dresses came out on 
the front porch. The children sat on the lowest step until the 
father was in sight, and long before I could recognize him were 
off down the street, the older one to carry his bucket, the little one 
to take possession of his hand. After supper he smoked con- 
tentedly with a child on each knee and talked with his wife of 
the day's doings. That hour of rest was bought at the price of 
a busy day for her; she swept off porch and walk, she washed 
almost daily to keep the dresses clean, she had dinner all cooked 
before he came. A woman must be a good manager and have the 
courage to appear cheerful when tired, if she is to make the even- 
ing at home happy. 

The thoughtful women are especially conscious that part 
of the responsibility for keeping the men away from the saloons 
belongs to them. The heat and thirst due to mill work, combined 
with the lack of other amusements, make the brightness and 
festivity of bar-rooms very appealing, and intemperance is conse- 
quently a serious evil in the town. The wives feel that they must 
help to overcome this temptation. One woman told me that she 
had been brought up to consider it wrong to play cards. She 
feared, however, that if she refused to have them in the house, 
her husband who was fond of playing would be tempted to go to 
the back rooms of the saloons for his entertainment. So, putting 
aside her scruples, she planned informal gatherings to play in 
the evenings. To her the drink evil was the more serious. There 
are many, however, to whom these real homes are not possible. 
There rises to my mind, in contrast, a two-room tenement down 
in the grimy comer where the mill joins the town. Here a woman 
was trying to support four little children by sewing and washing. 
Her husband had died after eight years of semi-invalidism resulting 
from an accident in the mill. With his small wages they had not 
been able to save, and as the injury had occurred so long ago she 
was not eligible for a benefit from the Carnegie Relief Fund. The 
kitchen was small and hot and the younger children noisy, and 
the not unnatural consequence was that the oldest girl drifted to 
the streets, mixed with a gay crowd, and eventually became a 

109 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

charge of the Juvenile Court. The girl was not bad at heart, and 
had there been a cheerful home where her friends could come, the 
end might have been different. 

That home life has a strong hold and b a social force in 
keeping pure what we call the moral life of the town, is shown 
by the infrequency of immorality among these English-speaking 
families. There are instances, to be sure, of unfaithfulness among 
married people, and there are those who love to retail these bits 
of gossip. But even the way in which they are told reveals how 
strongly the general sentiment of the town condemns such moral 
laxity. It is very rare to hear of girls going wrong. These 
townspeople watch their daughters jealously, and make every 
effort to have the home the center of life so that the dangers almost 
inevitably attendant on public dances and skating rinks may 
not touch the girls of the family. I found it part of many a 
mother's problem to create such a household atmosphere that 
the children should find their happiness in the home rather than 
seek it in the doubtful amusements the town offers. They planned, 
for instance, to give the children music lessons so that in the even- 
ing they might enjoy such gayeties together. In one or two homes 
the children had learned to play on different instruments and had 
an embryo orchestra. These quiet family gatherings are ap- 
parently the source of much pleasure. 

However amusing to the chance reader a small local paper 
may be, it furnishes some pretty reliable data as to the happenings 
in a town. The columns of the Homestead papers describe a 
round of birthday festivities and surprise parties for grown-ups as 
well as children, and we are assured each time that "the evening 
was a most enjoyable one." Music and refreshments, cards and 
other games furnish the usual entertainment. 

Where the mother is tactful and wise, the lack of amusement 
outside the home may have no serious results. But all women are 
not geniuses in making their homes happy; some make the effort 
and fail, others never try, with disastrous results. And unfor- 
tunately, when this attraction fails, as often happens when the 
mother does not welcome the surprise party or when the father 
resents having the children noisy in the evening, there is little in 
the community to take its place. Practically the only public 

110 



OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS 

amusements in Homestead, during my stay there, were the 
nickelodeons and skating rinks. Six of the former, all but 
one on Eighth Avenue, sent out their penetrating music all the 
evening and most of the afternoon. There was one ten-cent 
vaudeville house, but the others charge five cents for a show 
consisting of songs, moving pictures, etc., which lasts fifteen 
minutes or so. 

The part these shows play in the life of the community is 
really surprising. Not only were no other theatrical performances 
given in Homestead, but even those in Pittsburgh, because of the 
time and expense involved in getting there, were often out of the 
reach of workingmen and their families. The writer, when living 
in Homestead, found few things in Pittsburgh worth the long 
trolley ride, forty-five minutes each way. Many people, therefore, 
find in the nickelodeons their only relaxation. Men on their way 
home from work stop for a few minutes to see something of life 
outside the alternation of mill and home; the shopper rests while 
she enjoys the music, poor though it be, and the children are always 
b^ging for five cents to go to the nickelodeon. In the evening 
the family often go together for a little treat. On a Saturday 
afternoon visit to a nickelodeon, which advertised that it admitted 
two children on one ticket, I was surprised to find a large propor- 
tion of men in the audience. In many ways this form of amuse- 
ment is desirable. What it ordinarily offers does not educate but 
does give pleasure. While occasionally serious subjects are repre- 
sented, as for example pictures of the life of Christ given in Easter 
week, the performance usually consists of song and dance and 
moving pictures, all of a mediocre type. Still, for five cents the 
nickelodeon offers fifteen minutes' relaxation, and a glimpse of 
other sides of life, making the same appeal, after all, that theatre 
and novel do. As the nickelodeon seems to have met a real need 
in the mill towns, one must wish that it might offer them a better 
quality of entertainment.* Many who go because they can afford 

* In New York City a board of censorship passes upon the films, and this has 
eliminated any tendency to bid for trade by showing degrading subjects. In the 
absence of such a censorship, the probation officers of the Allegheny County Juve- 
nile Court have protested against pictures exhibited in some of the nickelocleons in 
Pittsburgh and neighboring towns. Without supervision some of them become ill 
favored resorts. 

Ill 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

nothing expensive would appreciate something better, even at a 
slightly higher price. 

The other popular amusement was the skating rink, of which 
there were three or four in Homestead.* "A marriage on skates" 
(apparently a bona-fide one, announced for ten days), masked 
balls, races, moonlight skating parties, all cleverly advertised, at- 
tracted the young people. While the two large rinks were fairly well 
conducted, some of the smaller ones were attended by a rough 
crowd. To a certain extent the danger felt in regard to public 
dances, bringing together young people some of whom were of 
doubtful character, applied also to the rink, and mothers often 
refused to allow their daughters to go, unless it was with "our 
own crowd." 

But some diversion young people must have, nor are their 
elders exempt from this need.f Surely with none is the necessity 
for stimulus and variety of interest greater than with the men 
who turn daily from twelve hours in the din of the huge mills 
to home, supper, a smoke and bed. 

I have already noted that in this community of 25,000 there 
are over 50 saloons and other drinking places, ranging from 
"speak-easies" to the conventional bar-rooms with plate glass 
and bright lights. It was no part of my study to investigate the 
ownership or police surveillance of these establishments, the profits 
gathered in on pay nights, or the intoxication which, as we have 
seen, the courts prove so ineffectual in controlling. As places of 
relaxation, they fill a need not otherwise supplied. The Carnegie 
Library has a gymnasium and clubs, but, except for the saloons 
and the club rooms of one or two fraternal orders, there are no free 
and easy lounging places for refreshment and friendly intercourse. 
The Slavs bring much of the liquor they buy home and drink it 
sociably there, many of them being heavy drinkers. The budgets 
gave no basis for a conclusion that English-speaking Homestead 
men are hard drinkers. My inquiries naturally lay among men 

* During the hard times of 1908 these were closed and have not been 
reopened. 

t The Public Recreation Centers of Chicago, with their dance halls and 
club rooms, to which all ages resort, in which the young people are safeguarded 
in ways which do not dampen the ardor of their good times, suggest the sort of 
non-commercial pleasure places which the mill towns need. 

112 



OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS 

with families rather than among the unattached ones, who are 
the constant tipplers in all towns. In the homes on the hill 
streets 1 heard almost no complaints that men were drunkards, 
though many men undoubtedly, in good times, spent money that 
way that was needed for the household budget. An old resident 
said that among the older stock he could name perhaps a half 
dozen men known as drunkards in the town. With hot work to 
whet thirst, and with the natural rebellion of human nature against 
the tension of long hours, the liquor interests have exploited 
the needs of the adults for recreation and refreshment. It is 
true that they have not really met that need, and have exploited 
the opportunities they offer; but it is equally true that the need 
is met in no other way. 

Outside of home festivities and the meagre or commercialized 
public provisions, the chief dependence for sociability is on the 
lodges, churches and other voluntary organizations. 

In Homestead, as in other working communities, we find 
benefit organizations playing a prominent part. In one day's 
paper, 50 meetings of fraternal orders were scheduled for one week. 
Facts were secured concerning 23 out of a total of perhaps half a 
hundred lodges. The 23 had a membership in 1907 of 3663; of 
these 3400 were men. Almost all the organizations include both 
social and benefit features. The Order of Elks, which has no r^- 
ular benefits and is a purely social organization, nevertheless gives 
generous assistance to members in distress. On the other hand 
the fraternal insurance orders, such as the Protected Home Circle 
and the Royal Arcanum, are important, not only because they help 
provide for the future, but because they provoke social intercourse 
in ways which help make this form of insurance popular. 

The lodges seek to arouse the sense of fraternity and common 
interest which otherwise finds little stimulus in the town. The 
following paragraphs from the prospectus of the Modem Wood- 
men reveal this purpose: 

While the beneficial (or insurance) department of the 
Modem Woodmen Society is admirable — ^is, indeed, as over 
f 1, 200,000,000 of insurance in force proves, of vital im- 
portance to the man of family — ^yet Woodcraft's fratemal 
feature is in reality the basal stone of the Society's existence. 
8 113 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

The world needs more genuine fraternity. There is a 
power of comfort in brotherly sympathy extenaed in time of 
distress. The kindly visit and solicitude of a Neighbor for 
one lying on a bed of sickness is appreciated. The aid 
freely extended to our families when we are so unfortunate 
as not to be able to help them ourselves is truly fraternal — 
Christ-like. None of us are so strong or so fortunately situ- 
ated that there may not come a dark hour, when we will 
require assistance and sympathy. It is comforting to know 
that in such an hour we need not appeal for Charity, but 
we may command the kindly ministrations of our fraternal 
brothers — our "Neighbors" of the Modem Woodmen of 
America. They solemnly obligate themselves to extend 
such aid and you will receive it it you stand in need. 

But in addition to this general sense of brotherliness, the 
lodges supply some of the good fun which Homestead craves. Be- 
sides the regular meetings, they have' summer outings at Kenny- 
wood Park and elsewhere, dances and card parties in the winter, 
whereby they raise money for some charitable purpose, for the 
lodge expenses or, as a special benefit, for some member who is in 
peculiar distress. These ends do not lessen the real enjoyment 
in the festivity itself, though they form, of course, an extra tax. 
Even the business meetings are a source of pleasure, and help de- 
velop a spirit of neighborliness. 

To the women especially, whose duties keep them at home, 
the lodge offers almost their only chance to meet other people 
and get for a few minutes into a different atmosphere from that of 
household tasks. Some housekeepers are firmly opposed to lodges 
on the ground that as they take time they must result in neglect 
of the home. This was also the opinion of a man whose wife 
had announced that she could see no objection to woman suf- 
frage, since women could learn how to vote by going to meetings. 
"Well," he retorted feelingly, "if you went to any more I don't 
know when I should get anything to eat." Another woman who 
belonged to four lodges and attended on an average two 
meetings every week considered them the pleasantest part of life, 
while her attractive home indicated that they did not inter- 
fere with her household duties. On the whole, the lodge meetings 
afford a genuine pleasure while they make no serious break in the 

114 



OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS 

routine of household tasks. Those fraternal insurance orders which 
include in their membership both men and women serve also as a 
center of common family interest. 

The meetings, however, are probably of most value to the 
men, since Homestead has comparatively few other organizations 
to bring men together. There are no unions to give a sense of 
common interest, and the political organizations are largely domi- 
nated by a few gangs. The lodges form really the only clubs. 
The most successful one in the town is the Odd Fellows with a 
membership of about one thousand, mostly steel workers, and a 
building of its own. It is probably the most influential organ- 
ization in Homestead. As the dues are not large and the sick 
benefits are comparatively generous, many can afford to join. 

The associations not only arouse fraternal interest in fellow 
members, but also offer at times the means of expressing sympathy 
with those outside their membership. During 1908, for example, 
many of the orders gave entertainments, to raise money either for 
the hospital which was being built in Homestead or for the com- 
mittee which cared for those in need during the industrial depres- 
sion. As I went into one woman's kitchen one day, she showed 
me a half bushel basket full of fine, large potatoes scrubbed clean 
and ready for baking, which she told me with a good deal of pride 
and evident pleasure were her share in a supper her lodge was giving 
for the benefit of the hospital. "My husband," she explained, 
"isn't in a dangerous place in the mill, but 1 am glad to help even 
if most of the injured are Hunkies." Again, in December of 1907, 
within forty-eight hours after the mine explosion at Monongah, 
West Virginia, one Homestead lodge had voted a contribution 
for those left destitute. This ready sympathy for suffering and 
desire to help often find their only expression through the joint 
effort of these societies. 

Social needs are further met by the churches, which in Home- 
stead, as is usual in a town, play a more important rdle in the com- 
munity than they do in a large city. While church affairs and 
suppers may not be the best ways to raise money, they offer good 
times. "Ten cent socials," for instance, provide a jolly evening 
for the young folks ; chicken and waffle suppers, advertised often 
during the winter, proved to be pleasant, homelike affairs. 

"5 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

The churches also provide a real though limited intellectual 
stimulus. One has a large men's club at whose meetings speakers 
talk on subjects of current interest. In another church a club 
of young men and women has regular debates on sociological 
subjects. The church in such ways becomes a center for broad- 
ening the life of its members by other than purely spiritual 
interests. 

The mill-town lodges and churches, though each must work 
out its own salvation, are more or less closely affiliated with 
larger organizations. It is interesting to see what purely local 
societies the town has developed. There are the usual number 
of women's clubs, with various objects, from embroidery to 
civics. The most prominent and enterprising is the Homestead 
Woman's Qub, of whose work in conducting a playground and 
attempting to secure a kindergarten I shall speak later. These 
women's clubs which have formed a union, with a joint meeting 
yearly, are centers of interest in the lives of their members. 
The members are, however, largely wives of business and profes- 
sional men or of those in responsible positions in the mill.* 

The young men have formed numerous athletic clubs, some 
informal, some with professional teams. During the winter, 
basket ball games, both professional and amateur, are very 
popular. "The 3rd Ave. team plays the 5th Ave. team" and 
similar notices in the Homestead papers show that local rivalry 
and athletic zeal go hand in hand. The Homestead "Americans'* 
have won championship matches all over the Eastern states. 
The players are, of course, usually young men. The older men 
and those whose work is hard prefer watching. Women when 
questioned as to the man's spending money often said, "Well, 
he goes to a basket ball game most every Saturday and that's 
thirty-five cents." It is perhaps needless to say that in summer 
baseball is to the front. There are the usual matches between local 
teams, and a " Business Men's League" conducts a series of games 
at Homestead Park after business hours. The standing of the 
various teams, which include doctors, grocers, steel workers, etc.» 
arouses a good deal of interest. The boys, of course, have innu- 
merable small clubs, and not infrequently on warm spring days 

^See Appendix XIII. p. 264 ff., for a list of the clubs and their objects. 

116 



Band Stand 
e in Ihc summer by Ihc Carnegie Library Band 



OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS 

passers-by are called upon to buy undrinkable lemonade to help 
supply the uniforms. 

While the clubs connected with the Cam^e Library are not, 
in a sense, of spontaneous growth, they may nevertheless be 
referred to here, since their particular form is largely a matter 
of popular demand. The library, it should be said in passing, 
touches the town's life at several points, and I have several times 
had occasion to refer to it. To give a more complete picture of 
its activities, and of the spirit of the librarian in charge, his 
annual report is published in Appendix XIII. There is an excel- 
lent gymnasium open to all on payment of I2.00 a year. This 
includes gymnasium, swimming pool, bowling alleys, fencing, etc., 
with good instruction. It was very popular with the young men. 
Men engaged in either clerical or professional work were found 
more often than those doing manual labor in the mill. Many of 
the latter (as seems natural to any one who has visited the mills) 
say they are too tired after their hours of heavy work. Conse- 
quently, they miss entirely the all-round development of gymna- 
sium work and the mutual stimulus and refreshment of playing 
games together. For the boys, the "gym" offers both fun and 
good training. 

The library also has had a series of paid entertainments, 
conducted by a lecture bureau which offers illustrated lectures, 
monologues, humorous readings, etc., at a low price. These were 
held in the auditorium of the library, but were only fairly well 
attended and later were abandoned. In addition the club has 
good musical classes, a band, an orchestra and chorus, each of 
which gives at least one free concert a year. The boys play well 
and this work undoubtedly helps to raise the standard of music 
in the homes. 

Aside from the lecture course there was almost no enter- 
tainment in Homestead the year of my inquiry that could be 
called cultural. The amusements in the main were the simple 
festivities of home and lodge and church, narrow in their round. 
Lacking the stimulus that comes from bringing a community into 
contact with new ideas or new people, they yet helped to keep life 
sane and wholesome. 



117 



CHAPTER VIII 
THE CHILDREN OF HOMESTEAD 

THROUGH children, more than through insurance, or 
savings, or even through home owning, does a workman's 
household lay claim upon the future. Here both the 
oldest instincts and new half-formulated ambitions find expres- 
sion. They have asserted themselves even in a town where the 
men have submitted to exclusion from all control over their work, 
and where as we have seen they have failed to master the town's 
government as a whole. Here the community has set before 
itself what it feels to be high standards. 

The working people of Homestead when talking of their 
children show a distinct recognition of the value of education and 
home training, as compared with the immediate money value of 
wages. English-speaking parents, at least, do not hurry their chil- 
dren to work the day they are fourteen years of age. Of the 
17 boys between fourteen and twenty-one, in the English-speak- 
ing families from whom budgets were secured, 15 were at work; 
but of 16 girls, four were still at school and 12 were at home help- 
ing their mothers. This last figure is a striking one in view of the 
fact that in at least five of these families the man was earning 
less than I15 a week; yet even under such circumstances the 
parents did not seek to increase their income by sending the 
girls to work. A typical case is that of a girl of 18, the eldest of 
six children, in a family with an income of I14 a week. It was 
assumed to be her place to help her mother, rather than to sup- 
plement the father's wages. While the number of families 
studied is, of course, not large enough to warrant sweeping con- 
clusions, their attitude in this matter corresponded with general 
impressions I received in visiting a much wider circle. 

In contrast to their general political indifference, the voters 

118 



THE CHILDREN OF HOMESTEAD 

have insisted on -eificiency in the one branch of borough govern- 
ment which specifically affects their children, and are proud of 
having a " good school board" and of having created a public senti- 
ment which makes the best men in the town willing to accept this 
office. The board included in 1907-8 three physicians, four men 
in the steel works, including a steel inspector, two lawyers, and 
several business men. Though this board has not adopted all the 
modem improvements in school equipment, it has, through its 
straightforward efforts to provide good service, secured the co- 
operation of the people. So far, school facilities have kept pace 
with the rapid growth of the town and there has been a seat for 
every child. 

The Second Ward school, one of the older buildings visited, 
was neither well constructed nor fireproof. The first grade room had 
34 double seats, or 68 children for one teacher — an excessive number. 
Drinking water was brought in buckets from a well in the yard; 
the toilets were cemented privy vaults flushed only by waste 
water from the yard and by rain water from the roof, except in 
dry seasons when the flushing was done by a hose.* Heat was 
provided by sheet-iron incased coal stoves situated in the rooms, 
and there was no system of ventilation. 

In contrast to this old school, changes in the newer buildings 
show that the board is adopting progressive standards. For 
example, the Fifth Ward school, the newest, is semi-fireproof and 
has excellent lighting arrangements, — six windows in each of the 
rooms, — the light in all cases coming from the back and left of 
the pupils. It has no double desks, and in two rooms the desks 
are graded in size. The heating is by hot air generated by steam. 
The building, a two-story one with no fire-escapes, had, how- 
ever, a wooden stairway in the center hall, and a fire drill was 
introduced only after public sentiment had been aroused by the 
G>llingwood School fire in Qeveland in which several hundred 
children were killed. Graduated desks are still urgently needed, 
since the presence in the same school of both native-bom children 
and newly arrived immigrants results in unusual variations in 
size among pupils in the same grade. With more facilities for 
bathing and especially with better toilets, the schools also could 

* Sanitary porcelain closets were installed in IQ08. 

"9 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

serve to educate public opinion to demand better sanitary stand- 
ards in the homes. 

The principal school in Munhall is a more up-to-date struc- 
ture than those of Homestead,* being fireproof and built with 
iron stairways and sufficient exits. The toilets are within the 
building, the lighting is sufficient and the heating system modem. 
It contains an assembly hall, though thb was used only for school 
purposes. The mothers' meetings and little entertainments in 
the kindergarten, and the literary exercises held once a week to 
which the mothers were invited, served to arouse interest and 
bring the women in touch with the teachers. This school is 
beginning to have a real influence in the life of the borough. It 
is, however, situated on the hill in the most prosperous part of 
the town. The schools in neighborhoods where such work would 
be more essential are not so equipped. 

An outsider, unless an expert, can hardly judge whether 
methods of instruction are of a high order or the work of the 
teachers efficient. The residents themselves believe that they 
are, and take genuine pride in every advance in standards. The 
authorities have been less ready to develop the social uses of the 
school plants. 1 1 is perhaps not surprising that a conservative town 
has not introduced such new features as school nurses and medical in- 
spection of school children. Parents who are so eager to secure 
benefits for their children would undoubtedly welcome such work 
were its value made known to them. Superintendent T. M« 
Norris of the Homestead schools has expressed himself as in favor 
of school nurses in the Second Ward. So far there has been no 
effective demand for them, nor has Homestead had the example 
of such a public system in the Pittsburgh schools. There has been 
less excuse for the belatedness in providing school playgrounds. In 
the Second Ward, where a play center has been most needed, the 
school has a large yard. Though this would have made a good 
playground it was used for games the year of my residence 
in Homestead only during the fifteen-minute recess twice a day. 
As the school is on the main street only two blocks from the mill, 

* Up to 1910 the Homestead High School has been conducted in a part of one 
of the grammar buildings. Plans are now under way for building a High School 
to cost 1125,000. This will have baths, a gymnasium, an assembly hall, etc. 

120 



THE CHILDREN OF HOMESTEAD 



Dipping from the Homestead Messengn which was an 
interestmg bit of evidence of the need for recreation grounds^ 




the yard proved an attractive spot for loungers and was on that 
account closed out of school hours. While paid supervision in such 
a location is undoubtedly necessary, the difficulty or expense in 
providing it should not have remained an insurmountable obstacle 
where a place to play was so sadly needed. The children who at- 
tend this school live at the foot of the hill in crowded courts, in 
which there is little room for games, and a long climb is neces- 
sary to reach 
the vacant 
lots back of 
the town. 

For two 
years the 
Woman's 
Club of 
Homestead 

used this school yard for a vaca- 
tion school. They employed teach- 
ers to conduct a kitchen garden 
and sewing classes, and provided 
swings and sand boxes for amuse- 
ment. Each afternoon club mem- 
bers helped with the work and they 
seem to have made it a success. Some 
felt, however, that the children who 
came were not from families who 
really needed this stimulus, and since 
the women could not secure an appropriation from the school 
board, and had difficulty in raising the necessary funds, they 
finally gave up the work. This was unfortunate, for not only 
was the vacation school needed by the pupils, but it also was a 
way in which the intelligent women of the town could come into 
personal contact with the problems of their Second Ward neigh- 
bors.* 

* In the summer of 1909, a vacation school and playground were main- 
tained for six weeks in this Second Ward school yard. A Plavground Association 
was oiganized with which the National Vacation Bible School Committee of New 
York co-operated, providing the play director. A similar playground was carried 
on by the Homestead people in 1910. 

121 



Th^-boya of HoniMtiad ar* tore 
at Vf tmrscM aid namtMrt of Um 
police frocc. who tHa^ aficuae of to* 
.toffertns vlUi th«ir tlghtn m troo 
ban TooBV Amoricaaa. Laat alKlit 
a eoBmittee of six. repnaeaUns Oio 
Flrat and Second wmrda called aCttae 
Dailr MaBBODf er office aad left the 
fOllowlDC which they hope will re- 
Ciive cmrerai cosalderatfoa at tha 
^da of tao thief eaecntlTO of the 
borough. 

"The boya o( HomecCead.Vaht to 
know why thty canaot play baaket* 
ball OB the atreet. aad- they waat to 
rhat they caa do. 

aaawar la Moa* 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

This same club — the most wide-awake body in the town — 
tried also to persuade the school board to start public kinder- 
gartens. The members canvassed the town to see how many 
mothers would send their children to a free kindergarten, how 
many if a fee were charged, and how many with no children of 
kindergarten age would contribute toward its support. They 
demonstrated by this inquiry that mothers would welcome the 
addition of kindergartens to the school system. But when the 
request to introduce them into the public schools was presented 
to the school board by a member who favored the project, it was 
refused. The reason offered was that the board could not aiford 
the money necessary to maintain the ten kindergartens Homestead 
needs. Nor did the authorities recognize their practical value. 
It was even said by one member of the board that the women 
merely wanted to be relieved of the care of the children so they 
would be free to "go gadding." 

A similar failure to comprehend the difficulties in giving 
proper training in the home and the need for providing it elsewhere, 
might have put off for a long time the introduction of domestic 
science and manual training. As it was, Mr. Charles M. Schwab, 
who was once superintendent of the Homestead works, gave the 
town a well equipped manual training school in which the 
children from all the schools, parochial as well as public, receive 
a half day's instruction a week while attending the sixth, seventh 
and eighth grades and the High School. The girls have cook- 
ing and sewing classes in alternate years and the boys classes 
in sloyd, wood and metal turning. Some of the girls do very 
creditable work, drafting patterns and making shirtwaist suits 
in their last year. In the cooking class they study the theory 
of food values, and have practical cooking lessons besides. 
The instruction in sewing the mothers generally approve. One 
woman who had been a clerk in a store before her marriage ex- 
pressed her regret that she had never been taught at home to 
sew. When clothing must be provided for a family of six it is a 
distinct handicap to be able to make only aprons and other sim- 
ple things. This woman was therefore appreciative of what her 
daughter learned in school. Other mothers who themselves 
taught their girls to sew did not consider the instruction so im- 

122 



THE CHILDREN OF HOMESTEAD 

portant, yet with all their other cares they were glad to have this 
help. 

In regard to the value of the cooking classes, opinions differed. 
When you turn from the large, spotless kitchen in the school, 
with its equipment of modem ranges and elaborate cooking uten- 
sils, to the humble kitchen in the home of a laborer, with a second- 
hand coal stove and only a few kettles, or even to the modest 
kitchens of the more well-to-do families, you understand why 
some girls find it difficult to translate into everyday usefulness 
the lessons of the school. Moreover, too often the emphasis of 
the lessons is on the preparation of fancy dishes, instead of on how 
to make cheap cuts both digestible and palatable; and yet, if 
girls learn new things which they can make at home, they take 
an increased interest in housekeeping. One girl insisted that her 
father get her some waffle irons. The family was so pleased with 
her first experiment that they now count upon having waffles 
every Sunday morning for breakfast. The girl's pride in providing 
the treat of the week undoubtedly helped to develop in her a real 
enthusiasm for homemaking. 

The school stimulates a similar interest among the boys by 
giving them a share in furnishing the home; for many of the ar- 
ticles made, especially in the wood-working classes, become their 
property. 

This Schwab school, which is supported by the public taxes, 
and is carried on under the direction of the superintendent of 
schools, rounds out the town's system of elementary education. 
In its maintenance and standards it is a public recognition of the 
need for manual training in an industrial community, and in its 
work a distinctly progressive spirit among the people is feeling its 
way. 

In these needs the adults, especially among the immigrants, 
share. Evening schools or educational centers would be valuable 
to Homestead and welcomed. The plant of the Schwab Manual 
Training School could be used in providing courses in domestic 
science for housekeepers, and a number of the older women would 
appreciate courses in domestic arts. Young men and boys would 
undoubtedly take advantage of night courses, both technical and 
literary. These wants are met in some measure by the Carnegie 

123 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Library, which, besides amusements, provides many opportunities 
for study. Unfortunately, a class feeling seems to have developed 
with respect to the library. The clerical and managerial force of 
mill employes make free use of its privileges, but some of the 
unskilled workmen expressed a doubt as to whether they are really 
welcome. This is not, however, due to the attitude of the direc- 
tors, which is cordial to all comers. Nearly 200 students were 
enrolled in the educational classes during 1908 besides those in 
the musical clubs. Until 1908 attempts to teach English to 
foreigners had not succeeded, but in that year there was a class of 

The fact that the library is on the high ground in Munhall 
discourages its use by men tired by a day's work. If classes and 
reading rooms could be opened in the school buildings in more 
accessible sections of the borough of Homestead, there would, I 
think, be an increased attendance. The development of the 
library clubs has been such as should serve to stimulate the school 
department to a further use of its own plant, rather than to en- 
courage the belief that the library meets all the cultural needs of 
the community. 

One exceptional opportunity for technical training, within 
reach of Homestead, is offered by the courses at the Cam^e 
Technical School in Pittsburgh. That this privilege is not un- 
appreciated is shown by the fact that in 1907-8 six boys from 
Homestead were taking the regular all-day course, and 17 boys 
the evening courses. 1 knew of one boy of seventeen employed 
in the mill who was attending the regalar evening course, hoping 
eventually to become an electrician. His work gave him some 
leisure time in which he could study, and when he was on night turn 
a friend managed to do the first hour's work for him so that he 
could continue his course. As the Institute is at least half an 
iiour's ride from Homestead, it required some will power and 
enthusiasm to take this trip after a ten or twelve hours' day in 
the mill.* 

* Arrangements are now made between the Carnegie Technical Schools and 
the Carnegie Steel Company (and other employers), by which a voung employe 
who wants to attend the nignt courses is put on working shifts which will not break 
into his classes. 

124 



Dm ugh ling Room 



Carpenter Shop 
Schwab Manual Thaimsc. School 



THE CHILDREN OF HOMESTEAD 

The girls, too, can secure training in domestic science, mil- 
linery, dressmaking, etc., in the girls' department of this school — 
the Margaret Morison Carnegie School. 

Among the English-speaking people the daughters rarely 
go out to service, though many of their mothers have done so. 
Nor are they inclined to work in the Homestead stores, where, I 
was told, the Homestead girls receive a lower rate of wages than 
do those from out-of-town — never above f5.oo a week. They 
prefer the change and excitement of the Pittsburgh stores, where 
they can get more pay, though hardly enough at first to counter- 
balance carfare. A number were employed in the great Westing- 
house Electric Works across the river; but the distance, the 
conditions under which some of the work is done, the speeding 
and low pay, and the doubtful reputation of some of the employes 
among Homestead mothers made them consider this employment 
undesirable. A few girls took commercial courses either in the 
Homestead High School or in business colleges in Pittsburgh; 
the extra expense of the latter was considered to be justified by 
the fact that the colleges assured positions on graduation. As one 
woman said of her young daughter, "We are poor, and we must 
consider how she can get to work soonest." The morning train 
carries a company of such office workers into the city. 

But the proportion is small, and in contrast to the prevailing 
custom of industrial communities, in New England, for instance, 
the continuance of this reservoir of woman's labor, largely un- 
tapped by commercial interests, is a matter of note. Undoubtedly 
home instincts and standards would not keep all the girls from 
work were a factory to be opened which would have use for them 
even at low pay. That they have so far largely remained at home 
has resulted in positive advantages. One may question whether 
the family would not be better off to have the additional earnings. 
But to the daughter who helps with the housekeeping, this house- 
hold training is valuable. Its importance is shown by the 
fact that the most capable housekeepers 1 came upon, with the 
greatest capacity for making a small income go a long way, had 
been girls who by working at home had learned methods of 
economy. 

The mill makes it possible for the sons to work and live in 

125 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Homestead and thus, before marriage, to develop the economic 
unity of their father's family. It is significant that among the 
budget families having a total income of |20 or over, 29 per cent 
of the income of English-speaking Europeans, and 1 1 per cent 
of that of native white families was contributed by the sons. 
Some of these boys of nineteen or twenty earned as much as their 
fathers. The period before they leave home is, therefore, the 
high-water mark of financial prosperity for the family. During 
this time a home can sometimes be bought. 1 visited one such 
where the whole atmosphere was one of comfort. Tliough the 
man himself earned very moderate wages, two sons had grown up 
at home, and during the period when they added to the family 
income the house and its furnishings (which included plush furni- 
ture and a music box!) had been purchased. The boys are mar- 
ried now, but their parents, in a way, are reaping the harvest of 
those fruitful years. 

The parents' ambitions for their sons are, as a rule, very 
simple; usually to follow in their fathers' footsteps, getting from 
the practical work in the mill a training for future success. There 
is a fascination about the mill against which even unwilling mothers 
find themselves helpless to contend. One woman, whose husband 
had been a mill worker all his life and two of whose sons had 
worked up to responsible positions, had had her fill of the ter- 
ror of accidents which haunts many a Homestead woman. So 
she wished her third boy to do something else, and secured a 
place for him in a large department store. His wages seemed 
small compared with those received by his brothers, there was little 
prospect of promotion, and so he was soon hard at work in the 
mill. The fact that the best paid men, such as rollers and heaters, 
have worked up to these jobs through experience has increased 
the natural tendency to put sons directly into the mill rather than 
to give them a technical training. While occasionally a boy 
wishes to go to college, the general attitude of the community is 
one of scorn rather than of respect for academic education. 
There is a general belief that the college trained man, with all 
his theory, is less expert than the man who has learned the indus- 
try through work with his hands. As few men with technical 
training are at the start familiar with the processes of steel mak- 

126 



THE CHILDREN OF HOMESTEAD 

ing, the value of their theoretical knowledge cannot overcome the 
prejudice created among the men by their early blunders. 

Whatever its disadvantages the mill usually gives a boy a 
chance to earn a fair livelihood for a single man as a semi-skilled 
workman. Some want what are known as pencil jobs, weighing and 
marking steel, where the work is light and apparently considered 
more gentlemanly, though the pay is lower and the chances of 
mastering the business are less. The parents often accede to this 
desire. Others begin at regular boy's work, as messengers 
or door openers.* Promotion is rapid in the beginning, and 
sometimes by the time a boy is eighteen he has already at- 
tained his maximum wage. One woman who regretted that her 
boy had not learned a trade, said that he was unwilling to go 
through a long period of apprenticeship as a mechanic, when at 
certain mill jobs he could earn good pay at once. Another woman 
told me that her brother early acquired dissipated habits because 
he earned man's wages while he still had a boy's lack of respon- 
sibility and self-control. 

The sons may work a little further up than their fathers; 
a man told me with pride that his son, who was a foreman, had 
secured for him a job in the mill, and a mother was eager to relate 
how her boy had taught the new assistant superintendent the way 
to do his work. Only rarely, however, do they secure an educa- 
tion that fits them for an entirely different kind of labor. 

The mothers, too, expect that their daughters will eventu- 
ally marry mill workers. Yet they desire for their children 
greater ease and culture than they themselves have enjoyed. 
One woman told me very sweetly of her efforts to teach her 
children better manners than she had ever learned. She bought 
a book on etiquette and was assiduously trying to instruct them 
in the little acts of courtesy which to many of us are a matter 

* Mr. Norris, superintendent of the Homestead schools, spoke of the care 
with which the mill superintendents refuse to employ any boy under fourteen, and 
forbid boys under sixteen to work in dangerous places. Yet in 1906-7 "A boy 
was killed in the Homestead Steel Works at i .30 in the morning. He was a 
'pull-up/ fifteen vears old. who had worked eight hours out of a thirteen-hour 
night turn. He nad a few minutes to rest, and went back of the furnace to lie 
down in a wheelbarrow. He fell asleep and was struck and killed bv the extend- 
ing, arm of a ladle which the crane-man was bringing back to the pit. Eastman, 
Work- Accidents and the Law, p. 88. 

127 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

of course. She explained her own embarrassment in attempting 
to set an example to the children, which she did with the self- 
consciousness that comes to grownups. " If 1 do get up from the 
table, 1 make myself say 'Excuse me/ but it is awful hard. I 
never learned very much, but I do want my children to be differ- 
ent/' — and the courtesy of the child who had opened the door for 
me demonstrated her success. 

In this home, as in many another, the plans of the parents 
centered about the development of the children, rather than about 
any change in their own economic status. We must remember 
that in the steel industry fortunes have been piled up by indi- 
vidual men who started in as water boys, and couple with it the 
fact that in Homestead there is no longer any method by which 
the men can collectively raise the general level of wages. It is 
but natural then that a family's hopes should be bound up very 
largely in its individual fortunes, and if these hopes are unful- 
filled through the father, that they should be centered in the 
sons. Yet in so far as my observations as to the future of the 
children are not conclusive, they reflect the vagueness of outlook 
of the people themselves. 

For dynamic changes are affecting the town's growth, and 
the lives of the people composing it. It would be difficult to 
prophesy how far the children of the present steel workers will man 
the mills of the next generation ; there is another stream of recruits 
coming in which as time goes on may more and more dispute with 
the native bom and the sons of the old immigrant stock for 
place in the ranks of the semi-skilled and skilled. We must recog- 
nize the part the Slavs are to play. They today make up a full 
half of the working force of the plant. They already affect every 
phase of the town's life, as newcomers in the ranks of industry, 
as aliens from East Europe, and (the great majority of them) 
as day laborers at i6j^ cents an hour, whose earnings fall below 
what we have seen to be a living wage for a family. 

That the members of this economic group in Homestead are 
largely of one race, and this a different one from the men in ranks 
above them, gives a distinctive character to the situation, and war- 
rants its treatment in a separate section. It is a situation common 
to an important group of the major industries in America today. 

128 



PART III 
THE SLAV AS A HOMESTEADER 



CHAPTER IX 
THE SLAVS 

FROM the cinder path beside one of the railroads that crosses 
the level part of Homestead, you enter an alley, bordered 
on one side by stables and on the other by a row of shabby 
two-story frame houses. The doors of the houses are closed, 
but dishpans and old clothes decorating their exterior mark them 
as inhabited. Turning from the alley through a narrow passage- 
way you find yourself in a small court, on three sides of which 
are smoke-grimed houses, and on the fourth, low stables. The 
open space teems with life and movement. Children, dogs and 
hens make it lively under foot; overhead long lines of flapping 
clothes must be dodged. A group of women stand gossiping in 
one comer, awaiting their turn at the pump, — which is one 
of the two sources of water supply for the 20 families who 
live here. Another woman dumps the contents of her washtubs 
upon the paved ground, and the greasy, soapy water runs into 
an open drain a few feet from the pump. In the center a circular 
wooden building with ten compartments opening into one vault, 
flushed only by this waste water, constitutes the toilet accommo- 
dations for over one hundred people. Twenty-seven children find 
in this crowded brick-paved space their only playground; for the 
63 rooms in the houses about the court shelter a group of 20 
families, Polish, Slavic and Hungarian, Jewish and N^[ro. The 
men are unskilled workers in the mills. 

This court is one of many such in Homestead; one of 
hundreds of similar courts in the mill towns of the Ohio valley. 
The conditions produced by the incoming of these alien workers 
form one of the unsolved problems of the steel district. 

Two elements in the old country feed the population of these 
crowded sections: the ambitious young men, with no ties, unless 
to aged parents; and the men with wives, sometimes with children, 
who come over here to make a better home for them. They are 

131 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

all stimulated by the successes of their friends, who perhaps have 
returned with savings that seem fortunes. Often these people 
mortgage their all for the passage money and if they fail here 
no place is left to which they can go back. From quiet villages 
they come to this smoky town ; from labor in the open fields to 
heavy work in the yards and thundering sheds of the mill. 

As employment is steady and the workman's needs are sim- 
ple, the wages seem large. The newcomer if a single man finds 
groups of his fellow workers living in close quarters — three or four 
in a room — ^who are enjoying life and saving money at the same 
time. So he too begins to save, and presently, if he has a family 
at home, sends for them to join him. If he is single, he sends for 
his sweetheart or marries some girl of his race, whom he meets in 
the mill-town courts of an evening or at church or at one of the 
lodge dances. If she has been at service here, she too will likely 
have a small account in the bank. Then, as the family grows and 
expenses increase, they resort to the old expedient and begin 
themselves to take boarders. Children come and grow up. The 
man's wage does not increase; as he is a "Hunkie" the chances 
are that he will remain a laborer. Most of these men come in- 
tending some day to go back with a thousand dollars — men of 
property. But even if they return once to the old country, they 
often turn again to America; growing attached to the new world, 
they become permanent residents. 

An occasional family, when the man gets into tonnage work 
or when the children reach earning age and add their wages to the 
common fund, achieves a long desired happiness; they move to a 
separate house in the suburbs, perhaps even to one of their own. 
But to many the crowded court with its isolation from the rest of 
the community continues to be America. 

While there were no definite figures available as to the 
number of these foreigners in Homestead in 1907-8, two Slavs inti- 
mately acquainted with the foreign colony estimated that there 
were between 6000 and 7000. When the mills were running full in 
October, 1907, 3603 Slavic men were at work there, forming 53.2 
per cent of the total number of employes.* As 1092 of these were 
single men, the estimate as to the total Slavic population is prob- 

• Table 3, p. 13. 
132 



^1 



^■a 



I^-o^Atl C';«% tt -m-^ 




5^1^ ^Gffi% 



||[|Qi]?[iniDQ! 
wm mnn n 



PITTSBURGH SURV 

MAP»UNOU MmCTWN 




S"myipm 



Q^lPDifflFflao 
ID — 



i nffMRirfflViiDl illllMtifri TrT 




IT 






linaqoapoDlJj] 



,4t©li]Qa2*-a^^ 



u 

J 
■ 
■ 

s 



CD ncAMB»/iLoinQs tS]-»<<wu«e» 




T«B i'VU^^BBR OP T«C COVKX 



Section of Ward Two, Homestead, tqoS 

Showing location of 22 courts studied; number of children under 14 in each; loca- 
tion of churches and saloons; absence of playgrounds 



THE SLAVS 

ably fairly accurate. The rapid increase in numbers is shown by 
the fact that while there were no Slavic churches in the town in 1 896, 
there are now Polish, Slovak, and Lithuanian Roman Catholic 
churches, a Slovak Greek Catholic church, a Hungarian Reformed 
church, and one or two Slavic Protestant missions. These churches 
hold property the value of which is estimated at f400,ooo. 

Numerous national distinctions divide this body of immi- 
grants as a whole, but of these the English-speaking community 
is in large measure ignorant; to the rest of the town they are 
all just "Hunkies." Of the Slavs employed in the mill in 1907, 
51.7 per cent were Slovaks, 15 per cent Magyar, 10.3 per cent 
Roumanian, 9.6 per cent Russian, 6 per cent Polish, 3.6 per cent 
Lithuanian, 3.9 per cent miscellaneous.* Between some of these 
groups, such as Slovaks and Hungarians, Poles and Russians, 
feuds dating back many centuries still provoke quarrels in this 
new-world town. The crowded courts bring them into close and 
sometimes irritating contact, and as yet there have been few 
amalgamating forces to counteract the old hatreds. Rather the 
segmentation of churches and lodges, due to differences in lan- 
guage, tend to keep alive these old antagonisms. 

In spite, however, of these national conflicts the Slavs are 
of similar temperament. Like the Irish who preceded them here, 
they are in most instances in their own country the ruled rather 
than the dominant race, and the majority come from agricul- 
tural countries, where money is scarce, where living conditions 
are of the poorest, where hard work in the open air has developed 
rugged strength. With them they bring the standards of vil- 
lage life, reflecting its crude sanitation (counterbalanced in the 
old environment by the unlimited supply of fresh air), its bare 
existence and its low levels of comfort. 

The mode of living which we find among the Slavs is in a 
measure due to a conflict between the nature of community life 
and industry in America, and the customs and conditions that 
prevail under a different civilization. In some measure, at least, 
wages, housing conditions, opportunities for relaxation, conform 

* For convenience in this book, as already noted, Magyars, Letts, etc., are 
spoken of as Slavs. Though not of the blood, they come from the same general 
district in mid-Europe and are part of the same wave of immigration. 

»33 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

to the ''standards of living" of the influential group in a town, 
— in Homestead, the standards of the native ii^tes. The forces 
of imitation and setf-iespect make it easier for a native to 
achieve these standards, but the newcomers must live under con- 
ditions which are not determined by their kind. Moreover, the 
ambition cf most in coming to this country is financial, or largely 
so; and the determination to get ahead, even at risk of immediate 
health and happiness, accentuates the problems which their pres- 
ence creates. They come, then, with this background of meagre 
surroundings, but with a vision of future riches. They come as 
prospectors come, ready for any hardships that may help them 
reach their goal, and with the passive endurance that has been 
characteristic of their race. Those early dreams of money to be 
picked up in the streets of the new world are bygones no doubt, 
but these Slavic adventurers bring with them, nevertheless, the 
expectation of returning some day men of wealth, — ^wealth made 
up of savings from American pay. 

Their labor is the heaviest and roughest in the mill, — 
handling steel billets and bars, loading trains, working in cinder 
pits; labor that demands mostly strength but demands that in 
large measure. They work usually under the direction of an 
English-speaking foreman whose orders they often fail to under- 
stand. Accidents are frequent, promotions rare. In 202 fami- 
lies in the courts studied, 88 per cent of the men belonged to the 
unskilled group, a proportion roughly true for the mill as a whole.* 
Only 2.2 per cent of the Slavs in the mill are skilled (Table 6, p. 
40). Some of the men about the furnaces thus work up by slow 
degrees to be skilled or at least semi-skilled, but in the main, 
the Slavs have as yet small prospect of advancement. f Of the 21 
budget families whose men were earning laborer's wages, five had 
been here from five to nine years, two from ten to fourteen years, 
and four had been here fifteen years or over. If the rank and file 

* The somewhat higher average of skill among the Slavic budget families 
is due to the fact that representative units from each of the economic groups 
were selected; also that tne investigator belonged to one of the oldest Slavic 
families and her acquaintance included many of the most prosperous. 

t The sons occasionally enter occupations outside the steel mills which they 
think more desirable. Two were reported to be drivers for livery stables and one a 
roofer. But these young men did not earn much more than their fathers. 

«34 



THE SLAVS 

are to satisfy their ambitions they must do it on less than |3.oo a 
day, or leave Homestead. 

Moreover, the Slavs find their work quickly aifected by an in- 
dustrial depression. During the winter of 1907 they were the first 
to be laid off. Many returned to Austria-Hungary; many could 
not go. In a group of 295 Bulgarians only 115 had work, while 
among 212 Russians, 131 were unemployed. The stories of these 
months of idleness and privation were pathetic. Remittances to 
wives and old people in Europe dropped off, bank deposits les- 
sened, and goods were purchased on credit till future wages were 
heavily mortgaged. As Americans were sometimes given laboring 
work formerly done by Slavs, the latter bore more than their 
share of a burden that seriously affected the whole community. 
The company's policy of caring for its skilled workmen by giving 
them labor that would normally have been done by the unskilled, 
was in certain ways estimable; but it made the winter a desperate 
one for such of the unskilled foreigners as could not return to 
their own country. 

The steel industry, then, requires these strong men to do its 
heaviest labor, pays them its lowest wage, with little prospect of 
advancement and with the chance that they will be first to suffer 
if work grows slack. What for its part does the town offer ? The 
section where the Slavs live is in itself gloomy. The level ground 
in the Second Ward cut off from the river by the mill and 
from the country by the steep hill behind, forms a pocket where 
the smoke settles heavily. There are oases in these wards, sec- 
tions of street with yards and trees, but for the most part here 
on the original site of the town, garden plots as well as alleys 
have been utilized on which to build small frame houses till the 
blocks are all but covered. While these houses are sometimes 
built in haphazard fashion, they usually surround such a court 
as that described at the outset of this chapter. For our cinder 
path led us directly to the heart of the crowding and the sanitary 
evils of the steel town. 

To determine the extent of such congestion, with the help 
of the Slavic member of my staff I made a study of 2 1 courts in the 
Second Ward, shown on the plan opposite page 1 34, where yards, 
toilets and water supply are used in common. In these courts 

»35 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

lived 239 families,* 102 of whom took lodgers. Fifty-one families, 
including sometimes four or five people, lived in one-room tene- 
ments. One-half the families used their kitchens as sleeping 
rooms. Only three houses had running water inside, and in at 
least three instances over 1 10 people were dependent on one yard 
hydrant for water. 

Each court is shut in between the houses facing the street 
and a similar row facing the alley at the rear which cuts the block 
in half. A narrow passage serves as an outlet. Some of the 
houses are four or six-story buildings, but more than half in the 
courts studied were but two stories high with four rooms each.f 
This type usually shelters two families each; one family living in 
the room opening upon the street and the upstairs room above it; 
the other, in the two rooms looking into the court. 

In summer, to give some through ventilation to the stifling 
rooms, doors leading to the stairway between the front and rear 
rooms are left open. As the families are often kin this oppor- 
tunity for friendly intercourse is not unwelcome. Indeed, the 
cheerful gossip about the hydrant that enlivens wash day, like 
the card playing in the court on a summer evening, suggests the 
neighborliness of village days. Nothing in the surroundings, 
however, bears out the suggestion. Accumulations of rubbish 
and broken brick pavements render the courts as a whole untidy 
and unwholesome. Some of the houses have small porches that 
might give a sense of homelikeness, but for the most part they are 
bare and dingy. As the houses are built close to the street with 
only this busy court behind, the tenant can scarcely have that bit 
of garden so dear to the heart of former country dwellers. Only 
here and there a little bed of lettuce with its note of delicate 
green or the vivid red of a geranium blossom brightens the mo- 
notony. Dreary as is the exterior, however, the evils to the 
dwellers in the court lie deeper; in the inadequate water supply, 
in meagre toilet facilities, and in overcrowding. 

The deficiency in the water supply is serious. In the 2 1 courts, 

* Of these, 168 were Slovaks, 23 Hungarians, 16 Russians, 10 Poles and 23 
Slavs of other origins. 

f Only four had more than six rooms. 

136 



THE SLAVS 

only three families, as stated, had running water in their homes. 
In no court were fewer than five families using one yard hydrant 
or pump, while in exceptional instances it was the sole supply of 
as many as twenty. As waste-water pipes were also lacking in 
the houses, the heavy tubs of water had to be carried out as 
well as in, and this in a smoky town where a double amount of 
washing and cleaning is necessary. When the weather permitted, 
the heavy washes were done in the yard. The pavement of a 
populous court covered with tubs, wringers, clothes baskets, and 
pools of soapy water, is a poor playground for children. 

The toilet accommodations, while possibly more adequate 
than the water supply, are a menace to health in consequence of 
the lack of running water. There was not one indoor closet in 
any of these courts. The streets of Homestead all have sewers, 
and by a borough ordinance even the outside vaults must be con- 
nected with them. These are, however, ordinarily flushed only 
by the waste water which flows directly into them from the yards. 
When conditions become unbearable, the tenants wash the vaults 
out with a hose attached to the hydrant. As long as the closets 
remain in the yards, it is difficult to introduce a system of flushing 
because of the danger that the pipes will freeze in winter. The 
vaults are usually in the center of the court only a few yards from 
the kitchen doors, and create from the point of view either of 
sanitation or decency, an intolerable condition . While occasionally 
three or four families must use one compartment, usually only two 
families do so. But even this means frequently that the closets 
are not locked and that no one has a special sense of responsi- 
bility for their condition ; in consequence they are often filthy. 

The Slavic courts of Homestead typify the conditions which 
result when an industrial district is invaded by hundreds of 
unskilled immigrant laborers, largely single men, largely country 
people, who want a place to sleep for the least possible cash. Most 
of the petty local landlords who provide these quarters care nothing 
for the condition of their places and regard the wages of these 
transients as fair spoils. 



«37 



CHAPTER X 
LIFE AT 11.66 A DAY 

TO sum up the situation, then, we find a group of slow, 
hard-working country people, ambitious to attain pros- 
perity, coming in large numbers in response to the de- 
mand of the mills for strong, unskilled labor. The mill offers 
them its lowest wage; the community meets them with indif- 
ference; the landlords exploit their helplessness. There is no 
reason for surprise, then, that the inability of these people to 
understand or cope with the adverse conditions which await 
them results in much unwholesome living. 

Let us turn from general facts and consider, in the first 
place, how the economic problem of life can be worked out on 
1 1. 65 a day. 

With the single men the problem is of course a simple one. 
Many care little how they live so long as they live cheaply. One 
of the lodging houses which I visited during the depression con- 
sisted of two rooms one above the other, each measuring perhaps 12 
by 20 feet. I n the kitchen was the wife of the boarding boss getting 
dinner, — some sort of hot apple cake and a stew of the cheapest 
cuts of meats. Along one side of the room was an oilcloth-covered 
table with a plank bench on each side; above it a rack holding a 
long row of handleless white cups and a shelf with tin knives and 
forks. Near the up-to-date range, the only piece of real furniture 
in the room, hung the "buckets" in which all mill men carry their 
noon or midnight meals. A crowd of men were lounging cheer- 
fully about, talking, smoking and enjoying life, making the most 
of the leisure enforced by the shut-down in the mill. In the nx>m 
above, double iron bedsteads were set close together and on them 
comfortables were neatly laid. In these two rooms, besides the 
" boarding boss," a stalwart Bulgarian, his wife and two babies, 
lived 20 men. 

138 



LIFE AT I1.65 A DAY 

The "boarding boss " runs the house and the men pay I3.00 
a month for a place to sleep, for having their clothes washed and 
their food cooked. In addition an account is kept of the food 
purchased and the total is divided among the men on pay day. 
The housewife also purchases and cooks any special food a man 
orders; beef, pork, lamb, each with a tag of some sort labeling 
the order, will all be fried together. A separate statement for 
each boarder is kept of these expenses. Such an account for a 
group of men in a small Slavic household may prove of interest. 
The family (which consisted of a man, his wife, his brother, 
three children aged eleven, eight, and one, and four boarders), 
occupied a house of four rooms, one of them dark, for which they 
paid a rent of I14. The man, though he had been in this country 
about twenty-one years, still earned only |io.8o a week with which 
to meet the needs of a growing family. One-half the cost of the food 
was paid by the boarders including the brother, and amounted for 
each man to about 1 1 .06 a week. The expenditures for the week for 
the whole family of seven adults and three children were as follows: 

Vegetables | 1.06 

Fruit ^6 

Milk, eggs, etc i.q8 

Sugar 40 

Sundries 76 

Meat 578 



Total 



|io.^ 



The following table made up from the account book shows the 
men's individual likings as expressed in the "extras" they ordered: 



TABLE 30. — FOOD PURCHASED ON SPECIAL ORDER FOR BOARDERS 

DURING MONTH ACCOUNT WAS KEPT 



Ariici 


U Pambay 


Beef . 


9 • • « 


Pork . 


I3.71 


Veal 


1 * • • 


Eggs 


k • • • 


MUk 


p • • • 


Cheese . 


.10 


Fruit . 


. . .15 


Total 


. . I3.96 



Baker 



1.87 

.go 

• • 

.31 
.19 

»334 




PiUch 



Timke 



|l.30 


1^ 


304 


2.30 


.10 


.05 


• • 


• • 


.09 


.05 


• • 


• • 


I4.43 


|3.88 



•39 



homestead: the households op a mill town 



The average expense for each man, including his share of 
the general sum, together with the amount spent individually, 
was about |8.02 a month. Adding I3.00 a month for room and 
washing, the total expense to each was about |ii a month. In 
prosperous times these men make regularly I9.90, which may be 
increased when they work more than 10 hours a day, and on Sun- 
day, to as high as 1 13 a week.* It is obvious, therefore, that if 
the fixed expenditure of these single men is about I3.00 a week, 
a large margin remains over and above clothes either for saving 
or indulgence. They can thus send for wife and children, fulfill 
their duties to aged parents, live high according to their lights, or 
make provision for their own future. 

While this prc^ram is an economical one, it by no means 
furnishes to this group of homeless foreigners a normal life. 
Though some expect to return and others to send for their families 
when they have made their fortunes, all for the time being are in a 
strange country with neither the pleasures nor the restraints of 
home life. As in all barracks life, drunkenness and immorality 
are common. 

But while 50.5 per cent of the Slavs employed in the mill 
are single, the remainder have families to support, usually on this 
same wage. How does this other half live ? Let us take the 
average expenditures of ten Slavic budget families (without 
boarders) earning less than |i2 a week, whose total average ex- 
penditure was 1 1 0.03 a week, 13 cents above the usual day labor- 
er's wage of I9.90. The figures are as follows: 



Food .... 

Rent .... 
Fuel .... 
Clothing . . . .1.57 
housekeeping ex- 

•»3 



I4.64 
1.6a 

a? 



Other housekeeping ex- 
penses 



Tobacco . 
Liquor 
Medicine . 
Furniture . 


. .1 .07 
. . .55 

• • • ■ 

• • • ■ 


Insurance . 
Other . 


. . 77 
. . .4" 



We may consider the distribution of expenditure in this 
group as fairly representative of the amount of money that the 
majority of the Slavs can count upon unless they work overtime 
or increase their income by taking lodgers. The 1 1 .62 a week for 
rent provides only a one or two-room tenement, two rooms in one 

* While men engaged in the processes in steel mills work 12 hours, the nomi- 
nal day of yard laborers is 10 hours. 

140 



'i 



LIFE AT 1 1. 65 A DAY 

of the undesirable houses costing |8.oo a month. This is plainly 
too low a housing standard for any family. With an average 
expenditure in this group of I4.64 a week, the cost of food for the 
average family would equal 20 cents a day per grown man, two 
cents a day less than Professor Underhill's estimate for essentials, 
five cents a day less than the general run of Homestead house- 
keepers got along on in hard times. As the Slavic accounts were 
not kept in sufficient detail it is difficult to show the food value of 
their provisions, but the statement of the average expenditure 
of one family, including a man, his wife and three children, twelve, 
three years, and nine months old, may give a suggestion as to the 
kind of food purchased. This family was dependent on the 
man's earnings of I9.90 a week. 

TABLE 31. — FOOD EXPENDITURES OF A SLAVIC FAMILY FOR ONE 

WEEK 
ArUcU Cost 

Bread | .75 

Bakers' food c^ 

Meat 146 

Flour 26 

Potatoes 35 

Other vegetables 09 

Dried beans 06 

Eflgs 24 

Milk II 

Butter 38 

Cheese 05 

Fresh fruit 13 

Sugar \A 

Tea ... 08 

Coffee .76 

Sundries .40 

Total I5.19 

Average a day 74 

Average a day per grown man 23 

While the sum expended was slightly more than 22 cents, 
a rough calculation indicated that the nutritive value of the food 
was a little below the requisite amount. In all probability these 
Slavic women are not skilful buyers, — the accounts consist of a 
rather monotonous alternation of "bread, meat — ^bread, meat" 
that does not promise an inspiring diet. As many of the wives 
are burdened by the extra work involved in taking lodgers, and 

141 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

as the men do heavy work and are hearty eaters, they choose food 
that is quick to prepare, and that satisfies appetite with the least 
effort rather than at the lowest cost. This probably accounts for 
the preference for meat in place of vegetables which would not 
otherwise be expected in country-bred people. 

The expenditure for clothing among the ten families con- 
sidered was below what Mr. Chapin estimated was essential in 
New York, though it formed a slightly larger percentage than in 
American families in the same income group. No money was 
expended for furniture; a fact borne out by the utter barrenness of 
the two-room homes of many of the laborers. With the exception 
of insurance, the value of which as we shall see is fully appre- 
ciated, and the comparatively high expenditure for liquor, these 
figures surely indicate that life measured in terms of possessions 
is at a low ebb among these Slavic laborers. There was but | ^i 
left for amusements, for church, for education. And what had 
become of the margin which was to make possible the attainment 
of that old-country ambition, a bit of property or a bank account ? 
Some other means must be found to achieve these ends. 

What that device is we saw in our study of the 21 Slavic 
courts, when we found that 102 families out of 239 took lodgers.* 
The income from this source is no mean item. Of the ro2 families, 
three-quarters received from lodgers a sum at least the equivalent 
of the rent, while a fifth received twice the amount of the rent or 
more. If we compare the income from lodgers with the man's 
wages, we find that in over half it added 25 per cent or more to 
the famil/s earnings. A glance at the sources of income of the 
budget families suggests that among the Slavs themselves the 

*The wavs by which families increase their income in order to set ahead 
are indicated by these notes of the Slavic investigator in regard to families which 
had bought homes. 

"John C . Woman goes out cleaning and cooking. By doing 

this she has been able to add her earnings to her husband's so as to pay for 
the property they now own," 

" The mother took boarders till too old. Now the daughter does not 
prove to be a good housekeeper" (perhaps because this was poor training 
for the future). 

"Mrs. Y. since her marriage has gone out to work by the day, and 
then done washings in the evenings — she also has a boarder who pa>rs f 18 
a month. But she no longer goes out to work since they have paid for 
their home." 

142 



LIFE AT 1 1. 65 A DAY 

wages of an unskilled laborer are considered insufficient to support 
a family, even according to the standards of the Second Ward.* 
Single men, then, who must find homes, and families with 
small wages who want to save, together give rise to the lodging 
and boarding system of the Slavic courts. The outcome is over- 
crowding. Of the 102 families taking lodgers, 63 had four lodgers 
or less; 33 from five to nine lodgers; seven from 10 to 15 lodgers. 



TABLE 32.— ^TWO HUNDRED AND THIRTY-NINE SLAVIC FAMILIES 
IN 21 COURTS. — BY NUMBER, NATION ALITYf AND NUMBER OF 
LODGERS 



NaHonaUiy of 


Total 
Familiis 


Families 

Having no 

Lodgifs 


Families Having Lodgers 


Lodgifs 


1-4 


5-9 


10-15 


Total 


Slovak 
Pole . . 
Hungarian . 
Russian 
Croatian 
Lithuanian , 
Othen. 






168 

10 

33 

16 

6 

4 
«3 


107 

7 
II 

• • 

• • 

3 
10 


44 
3 

i 

2 

3 
1 


16 

• • 

6 

5 
4 

• • 

3 


I 

• • 

1 

5 

■ • 

• • 

• • 


61 

3 
II 

16 

6 

3 

3 


Total . 


339 


>37 


63 


33 


7 


103 



Even among the families that did not take lodgers, half 
averaged over two persons to the room. Of those who did take 
lodgers, all but 15 suffered this same degree of overcrowding. 
Forty-three lived three to the room, 31 four, seven five, and 
six more than five to the room. It is in itself a proof of the 
meagre standards of home life, that of the 102 families who took 
lodgers, 71 lived in two-room tenements, where obviously there 
were no superfluous rooms to be rented and where this economy 

* Appendix I, Tables 2 and 3, p. 301 

t As 70 per cent of the families living in these courts were Slovaks, with the 
remainder scattered among many different Slavic races, it is perhaps fruitless to 
attempt any conclusions as to racial distinctions in the matter of overcrowding. 
But in the accompanying table it is to be noted that among the Russians not on5^ 
were there no families without lodgers, but that they had also the largest number 
of families with over ten lodgers. 

"43 



homestead: the households op a mill town 

involved the overcrowding of space already inadequate. Of the 
71 families in two-room tenements, 55 had three or more persons 
to the room, 27 had four or more persons, and 8 had five or more. 



TABLE 33. — NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM IN THE 21 COURTS IN 
FAMILIES WHICH TOOK LODGERS COMPARED WITH THE NUMBER 
IN FAMILIES WHICH DID NOT TAKE LODGERS, JANUARY, IQOS 





Families Having an Average per Room op 


ToUdFamiiUs 


I 
Person 


3 
Persons 


Persons 


Persons 


Persons 


More 
Iban 5 


With lodgers, loa 
Without lodgers, 137. 


6 
"9 


49 


43 
52 


3i 
>3 


7 

2 


6 

2 


Totals .... 


35 


58 


95 


44 


9 


8 



This Study was made in 1908 and the extent of overcrowd- 
ing was far less than during the previous summer, since with 
the business depression of 1908 hundreds of men, especially those 
without families, had returned to the old country. 

We have now fairly complete before us the picture of the 
household establishment in which the family of the Slavic immi- 
grant takes up life in Homestead. Wages at i6J^ cents an hour 
and the lodger as a means for supplementing them, are its chief 
factors. Taking lodgers is not giving a home to a friend from the 
old country nor letting an extra room ; it is a deliberate business 
venture on the part of a family to increase the inadequate income 
from the man's earnings. This thrifty measure may seem to the 
reader a wise means of solving the problem. It is only as he 
comes to know the actual effects on home life that he realizes the 
iniquity of a system which makes this necessary to attain the 
altogether natural ambition to own a home or save a thousand 
dollars, — or even for a husband to have his wife and children 
about him. 

We have yet to see what life at this level means as a basis for 
rearing children, as affording human recreations, and as a foot- 
hold for getting on in the world. 

144 



CHAPTER XI 

FAMILY LIFE OF THE SLAVS 

ONE morning I entered a two-room tenement. The 
kitchen, perhaps 15 by 12 feet, was steaming with vapor 
from a big washtub set on a chair in the middle of the 
room. The mother was trying to wash and at the same time to 
keep the older of her two babies from tumbling into the tub full of 
scalding water that was standing on the floor. On one side of the 
room was a huge puffy bed, with one feather tick to sleep on and 
another for covering; near the window stood a sewing machine; in 
the comer, an organ, — ^all these, besides the inevitable cook stove 
upon which in the place of honor was simmering the evening's 
soup. Upstairs in the second room were one boarder and the 
man of the house asleep. Two more boarders were at work, but 
at night would be home to sleep in the bed from which the others 
would get up. Picture if you will what a week or a season 
means to a mother in such a home, the overwork, the brief respite 
from toil — to be increased afterward— when the babies come ? 

Yet it is even more disastrous to the children both in health 
and character. In the courts studied, out of 102 families who took 
lodgers, 72 had children; of these, 25 families had two, 10 had three, 
and seven had four. There were 138 youngsters in all. A com- 
parison of births and deaths of children under two, shown in the 
tables on the following page, shows that among the Slavs one 
child under two years of age dies to every three children bom ; 
among the English-speaking Europeans, one dies to every seven 
bom; among the native whites and colored, one to every five. 
In the crowded Second Ward, taking all races, one child under 
two dies to every three bom, — compared with one to every four 
in the First Ward, one to every five in the Fifth, one to every 
eight in the Third, and one to every seven in the Fourth. 
10 145 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

table 34. — ^number of births in each ward in homestead 

for 1907. — by racial group 





Ward 




Raciai Group 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Toial 


Slav 

Eng. sp. Eur 

Native White and Colored . 


33 

«7 
39 


338 
4> 
37 


34 
^3 
55 


5 

19 
37 


16 

37 
55 


416 

i27 

313 


Total 


79 


416 


112 


5" 


98 


756 



TABLE 35.^NUMBER OF DEATHS OF CHILDREN UNDER TWO YEARS 
OF AGE IN EACH WARD IN HOMESTEAD FOR I907. — BY RACIAL 
GROUP 





Ward 




Racial Group 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Total 


Slav 

Eng. sp. Eur 

Native White and Colored . 


5 

2 

13 


"3 

9 

10 


6 

2 
6 


3 

1 

3 


6 

4 
9 


40 


Total 


19 


132 


14 


7 


19 


191 



TABLE 36. — RATIO OF BIRTHS IN EACH WARD IN HOMESTEAD IN 
1907 TO DEATHS OF CHILDREN UNDER TWO IN THE SAME 
WARD. — BY RACIAL GROUP 









Ward 








Racial Group 


I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Tolal 


Slav 

Eng. sp. Eur. 

Native White and Colored . 

Proportions between total number 
of births and deaths under two 
in each ward .... 


4.6 
85 
3-3 

4.3 


4.6 
37 

3-2 


57 
11.5 

9^2 

8.0 


>7 
19.0 

9.0 
7.3 


11 

6.1 
5-3 


3." 
7.0 
5.3 

4.0 



146 



FAMILY LIFE OF THE SLAVS 

Against many of these deaths was the physician's entry 
"malnutrition due to poor food and overcrowding"; that is, the 
mother too poor, too busy, and too ignorant to prepare food prop- 
erly, rooms over-tenanted, and courts too confined to give the 
fresh air essential for the physical development of children. A 
priest told me he believed that the taking of lodgers caused the 
appalling death rate among the babies in his parish. Neither 
preaching nor pointing out to women personally the folly of the 
economy had sufficed to check the habit. 

Not only is the mother too busy to give much time to her 
babies, but she also suffers from overwork during pregnancy and 
from lack of proper care afterward. Housework must be done, 
boarders must be fed, and most women work until the day of 
confinement. In accordance with their home customs, almost 
all of them employ midwives and call a doctor only in an emer- 
gency. 1 was told by a local physician that nearly half of the 
births in Homestead, the large proportion of them among the 
Slavic people, were attended by midwives. These women, who 
charge I5.00 or |io, include in their services the care of both 
woman and child for several days, and thus perform the services 
of trained nurse as well as doctor. While of the 21 midwives 
registered in Homestead, five or six have diplomas from schools 
of midwifery abroad, most of them are ignorant and are careless 
about cleanliness. In a paper before the Allegheny County Med- 
ical Society, Dr. Purman, a local physician, reported numerous 
instances where both mother and child had suffered serious injury 
from the ignorance of these women. 

The necessity for mothers to be up and at work within 
three or four days adds to the harm. In at least i o of the 29 Slavic 
families visited, special reference was made by the Slavic investi- 
gator to the ill health of the mother due to overwork and to lack 
of proper care during confinement. The strength to bear much 
doubtless comes to these women from years of work in the fields, 
but the change to the hot kitchens where their work is now 
done undoubtedly entails a strain which not only injures them 
but lessens the vitality of the children. This weakened con- 
dition at birth combines with the inadequate food and insuffi- 
cient air and the neglect which comes through over-burdening the 
mother to produce the appalling infant death rate in these courts. 

>47 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Yet sometimes as you watch the stunted, sickly looking 
children, you wonder if the real tragedy does not lie rather in the 
miserable future in store for the babies who live, many of them 
with undervitalized systems which may make them victims either 
of disease or of the dissipation that often fastens upon weak wills 
and weak bodies. 

Keeping lodgers ruins the training as well as the health of 
the children. The overworked mother has neither time nor pa- 
tience for wise discipline. As the men who work on night turns 
must sleep during the day, crying babies must not be allowed to 
disturb this uneasy rest. All this adds to the mother's weary 
irritation and makes it harder to maintain any sort of uniform 
control. This failure of intelligent discipline was noticeable in 
most of the families I visited, where cuffs and sharp words were the 
usual form of correction. One of the Protestant missions which 
tried through mothers' meetings to give the women some sugges- 
tions as to child training, found them too busy to come. For- 
tunately, however, the children who attend the public schools 
receive some training. This the parents value. A teacher in 
the Second Ward school said that while she had a great deal of 
trouble in teaching the Slavic children obedience, she at least found 
the parents willing to uphold her in whatever action she took. 

Even more serious is the injury to the moral tone of the Slavic 
community caused by the crowding together of single men and 
families. In only four instances in the courts studied were lodgers 
found in families where there were girls over fourteen, but even 
younger children learn evil quickly from the free-spoken men. 
With the husband at work on the night shift the situation is aggra- 
vated, and reports are current of gross immorality on the part of 
some women who keep lodgers; two or three actual instances 
came to my knowledge from unquestioned sources. Since half 
the families in the courts studied used the kitchen as a sleeping 
room, there was close mingling of lodgers and family among them. 
This becomes intolerable when families living in but two rooms 
take lodgers. This was true, as we have seen, in 71 instances. 
Even when extreme crowding does not exist, family and lodgers 
often all sleep in the kitchen, the only warm room, in winter. 

Certainly there is little to quicken mental and spiritual 

148 



Out of Work 
oslcad Court, Spring o[ i 



FAMILY LIFE OF THE SLAVS 

development in these crowded tenements where there is neither 
privacy nor even that degree of silence necessary for reading. 
We agree in the abstract that the individual needs room for 
growth, yet complain of the stunted mental stature of these 
people who have the meagre development of seedlings grown in a 
mass. 

Moreover, families who live in narrow quarters have no 
room for festive gatherings. In the evening a group often gathers 
around the stove gossiping of home days, playing cards, drinking, 
and playing simple musical instruments. On the Saturday after 
pay day the household usually clubs together to buy a case 
of beer which it drinks at home. These ordinarily jovial gath- 
erings are sometimes interrupted by fights and the police have 
to be called in. One officer who had been on the force for nine 
years said that these men were generally good-natured and easy- 
going, and in all his experience he had never arrested a sober 
" Hunkie" ; it was when they were drunk that the trouble b^an. 
The punishment usually inflicted for disorderly conduct in Home- 
stead, a small fine, has little deterrent effect among the Slavs. It 
is indeed currently said that some are proud of having a large fine 
imposed, as they feel that it indicates increased importance. 
Usually, however, they gather without disturbance simply to chat 
and drink, to pass the hours after the da/s work. 

The women have few opportunities for relaxation. Some- 
times they gossip around the pump or at the butcher's, but wash- 
ing, ironing, cleaning, sewing and cooking for the boarders leave 
little time for visiting. The young people perhaps suffer most 
from the lack of home festivities. A two-room house has no place 
for games or "parties," or even for courting; there is not even 
space enough, to say nothing of privacy. So young folks are 
driven to the streets for their gayety. Almost the only time when 
the house is really the scene of festivity is when those primal 
events, birth, and marriage, and death, bring together both the 
old-time friends and the new neighbors. 

On most of these occasions, whether weddings, christenings or 
funerals, joy and grief and religious ceremony are alike forgotten 
in a riotous good time. The weddings are the gayest affairs in 
the life of the community. After the morning service at the 

149 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

church, all return home if the house is big enough, and if not, 
they go to a hall, and there the dancing begins. Each man 
pays what he can, usually a dollar, for the privilege of dancing with 
the bride, and the money — their form of a wedding present — 
helps furnish the home for the young couple. At one wedding 
during the winter $75 was thus received, but the girl by evening 
felt that she had earned the money. In the afternoon the drinking 
begins and by midnight the revel is at its height. The neighbor- 
hood considers a family under obligation to provide these fes- 
tivities. I was told of one pathetic instance where a woman, as 
she was very ill, did not invite any one to her baby's christening. 
Her offended neighbors refused to visit her, but when she died 
they were ready enough to come to the funeral and share in the 
drinking. 

Some old-world customs, too, are maintained which seem 
strangely at variance with new-world conditions. All summer 
over the doors and windows are seen dried, smoke begrimed 
branches from which the faded leaves hang disconsolately. These 
decorations are part of a joyous religious festival in the spring time 
similar to those that added merriment to the village life at home. 
At Eastertide they keep up an old custom, said to date from 
pagan days. On Monday the men go about with willow branches 
and switch the women until they make them a present, while on 
the following day the women retaliate by throwing water on the 
men. 

In other superficial habits of life they show themselves 
eager to adopt American customs. This tendency is clearly — 
sometimes humorously— exemplified in the quickness with which 
they adopt our style of clothing. The men on Sunday can often 
be differentiated from the American workmen only by the unmis- 
takable Slavic type of face. Even in their own homes the women 
quickly adopt the machine-made cotton wrapper and on Sunday 
the streets blossom with cheap ready-made adornments. I was 
fairly startled by one apparition in a gay pink hat, crude blue 
skirt, and green silk waist that no grass in Homestead could hope 
to vie with, all products of a department store, which evidently 
gave the wearer a proud sense of being dressed like other Ameri- 
cans. As I stood Easter Sunday watching the kneeling women, 

150 



FAMILY LIFE OF THE SLAVS 

the mass of vivid colors showed how easily they copy the less de- 
sirable habits of their native bom sisters. If opportunity offered 
they would doubtless be as ready to pick up our customs in other 
more essential matters. 

Lack of intercourse, however, hinders. The Slavs must 
keep up their own festivities the more because they cannot join in 
the amusements of the rest of the community. To the better class 
of entertainments they are not welcomed, and to others the differ- 
ence in speech is still a barrier. Obviously the theatre, and even 
in a measure the nickelodeons, are uninteresting to those who can* 
not understand the language. Thus cut off from what little normal 
amusement Homestead offers, they cling to the few festivities their 
limited opportunities make possible. 

In summer there are of course more chances for recreation; 
trolley rides and picnics in the park make a welcome variety from 
the heat of the courts. The following statements, taken from the 
notes of the Slavic woman who assisted in making the investiga- 
tion, tell the story simply: 

— ^They do not go to amusements of any kind on account 
of being so poor and feel so badly after tney have finished 
their day's work. 

— Husband and wife go to the lodge dances, which they 
enjoy very much. Wife goes to the five cent theatres, to the 
parks in the summer and for trolley rides. Is fond of all 
kinds of amusements and goes when they can afford it. 

— ^The family have no amusements at all outside of their 
own home, simply because they cannot afford it. They 
would like to be able to go to some places of amusement, if 
they could. Spend their Sundays at nome in a pleasant way. 
The mother and children go to church every Saturday eve- 
ning to say the rosary, which is one of their chief pleasures. 

Starting in with such a household as that described at the 
opening of this chapter, how far do any of these Slavic families 
succeed in working out ideals they have set for themselves ? 

If we turn from the crowded courts with their two-room 
tenements to the homes of some who have attained their ambitions, 
we find conditions that show an inherent capacity for advancement 
in the race. As an illustration, note the change in type in two 
houses, the homes of families from the same place in the old coun* 

'5> 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

try, the one newcomers, the other among the "oldest inhabitants" 
of the Slavic community. The first family live in a one-room 
tenement, where even though the furniture includes only absolute 
necessities, it is hard to keep all the crowded belongings in order. 
On wash-day morning the disorder is increased. Nevertheless, 
the home is kept as neat as the circumstances permit, and the 
bright pictures on the wall are proof of a desire to make it attrac- 
tive. As the man earns only I9.90 a week, they must keep thdr 
rent low if bills are to be paid and anything laid by for the future. 
Ill the other picture, the "front room" with its leather-covered 
furniture is in a five-room house which the family owns. The 
sacred pictures with their vivid coloring relieve the severity of 
the room while they also reveal the religious note in Slavic life, 
for if happiness is to stay with the family, the priest must come 



table 37.- 


-AVERAGE WEEKLY EXPENDITURE OF 20 


SLAVIC BUDGET 


FAMILIES 


Expenditure 
Group 


Number of 
■^ Families 


Average 

IVeeUy 

Expenditure 


1 

l»-53 


1 


2 

f»3 


II.34 


b Furniture 


1} 

I.I3 


gN Insurance 


b Tobacco 


1 


1 


t 


Under 1 13.00 


18.98 


i^ .. 


|.3« 


I12.00414.99 


5 


13.4a 


^•^i 


8.47 


.76 


1.67 


.oU 


•34 


.40 


.05 


•43 »-25 


1.04 


|i 5.00^19.99 


7 


<7-47 


3.38 


.56 


1.80 


.05 


•39 


'77 


.05 


1.36 


.18 


>•» 


$30.00 and 


• • 


• • 


• • 


• • 


■ • 


• • 


• • 


• • 


• • 


■ • 


• • 


• • 


• • 


over 


3 

39 


31.55 


3.63 

|3.00 


7.13 
f598 


.07 
f.38 


3.1 1 


• • 

1.03 


.56 

t'7 


3.33 
1-84 


.05 
1.05 


•37 
1.63 


•48 

I-I4 


395 


Average 


11309 


li.ii 



yearly to " bless the home." This family after many years in 
America has, by hard work and thrift, succeeded in obtaining a 
real home. 

Turning from this visible evidence of the way in which an 
individual Slavic family has prospered, we find in the mill census 
that the number of skilled, and therefore highly paid members of 
the race, are few. Of the 3603 Slavs in the mill in 1907, 459 were 
ranked as semi-skilled, 80 as skilled. The Slovaks from Austro- 
Hungary are the most numerous of the race in Homestead, and 

152 



FAMILY LIFE OF THE SLAVS 

were the first of this stock to come here. Among them we find 
proportionately a slightly larger number of semi-skilled workers.'*' 
We have seen that of the budget Slavs still earning labor- 
ers' wages, a third had been here over ten years; it is apparent, 
however, that individuals are slowly making their way into skilled 
work — 2i movement which, as the older English-speaking men 
drop out, is probably bound to increase. In the 29 immigrant 
families keeping budgets all of the men who earned $12 or more a 
week had been here over five years. It is interesting to note that 
some had come here when they were very young, eleven, fifteen, 
sixteen, or seventeen years old ; for example, a tonnage worker 
had been here ten years; a man at one of the furnaces earning 
$3.50 a day, seventeen years, and a machinist who earned about 
the same amount, eighteen years. Even with the higher wages, 
their families continue to make sacrifices to secure the desired 
property more rapidly. A helper at one of the open-hearth fur- 
naces, who had been here for seven years, was earning $2.50 to 
$3.00 a day. The husband and wife still took in two boarders, so 
that with their two children there were six people in a two-room 
house, which was but scantily furnished. They had a bank ac- 
count of at least $400. Another Slav, the head of a family of 
three, had been here ten years and was working on tonnage, in 
good times earning about f6.oo a day. They, too, lived in a 
two-room house, but it was neat and from their standpoint proba- 
bly seemed large enough as they had no lodger. They had pur- 
chased the farm in the old country and besides had a $500 bank 
account. Again, take a family of six. The father, still only 
about thirty years old, had been here for over fifteen years. Out 
of his wages — about ¥3.50 a day at fairly skilled work in the mill — 
he was buying a small house with a garden. He was naturalized 
and the family stood as a fair type of our new citizens. They took 
no lodgers, but the limitations imposed by such thrift as they 
practiced are illustrated by the notes on this household made by 
my interpreter. Herself a Slav, their circumstances were a mat- 
ter of no special interest, and she therefore wrote her notes with 
no attempt to add "local color" such as a person of another race 

*They formed qi.7 per cent of all the Slavs in the mill in 1907, 60.1 per 
cent of the semi-skilled Slavs, and 56.2 per cent of the skilled Slavs. 

>53 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

would have put into them. To her the stat^nent was simply one 
of facts: 

Conditions of Work: 

The man works on day and night shifts alternately. 

Home: 

They don't own their own home, on which there is a 
mortgage. The man gives all his earnings to his wife and 
when he needs any spending money, he asks for it. 

FumiUife: 

They live in two rooms comfortably furnished, one a 
living room and the other a bed room, lliey have a sewing 
machine on which the mother does the sewing for her family. 
Does her washing by hand. 

Clothes: 

They wear plain clothing. The woman does all her own 
mending with care. The father buys ready-made clothing. 
They have a change of clothing for Sundays, of a fairly good 
quality. 

Food: 

They buy their food at grocery stores; don't get all at 
one store. They live prindpaily on vegetable diet, not using 
much fruit. Tne man works hard and they are obliged to 
have good substantial food. The family eat their evening 
meal together. 

Woman's Work: 

The woman does her own work at home, but does not 
earn anything outside, her time all being taken up with car- 
ing for her family. 

Lodges: 

The man belongs to St. Stephen's Lodge, and his wife 
belongs to St. Cathenne's, both church lodejes. They attend 
one meeting every month unless something to prevent 
When not able to go, they send in their dues. The man gets 
$5.00 a week sick benefits, also a death benefit of (looo to his 
family after his decease. His dues are $2.00 monthly and the 
wife's dues are (i .00 a month. In case of death of the woman 
the family gets $700. The wife's reasons for belonging to 
above lodges is that their family may have benefits paid by 
the lodges in case of a death, either father or mother. 

HeaUb: 

This man is in good health. The woman is not in good 
health, having gone to work too soon after her confinement; 

'54 



FAMILY LIFE OF THE SLAVS 

was attended by a midwife. She did not have proper care 
during her confinement. The children are sickly. One of 
them nad typhoid fever. 

Education: 

There are four children, the oldest seven years and now 
attending public school. The only reading matter they have 
is his Lodge paper, which he gets once a week. 

Auidtnis: 

The man had one accident, but no help from the Car- 
n^e fund. 

Drink: 

The man drinks at home and sometimes at saloons. 
Pays for himself. He does not get intoxicated. The woman 
drinks a little when she has it at home. 

Antusemetiis: 

The man goes only when his lodge gives a dance, it 
being expected of every member to buy tickets. Neither he 
nor his wife ever attend theatres, on account of being kept 
at home with their family. The woman cannot remeniber 
having been to any of the parks or amusements of any kind. 

It is by such thrift that some of the Slavs attain their ambi- 
tion to own a home. An official in the foreign department of 
one bank said he knew of 25 Slavs who had purchased homes in 
1907. Sometimes these families continue to live in the Second 
Ward. One family, for example, had bought an eight-room house 
on one of these busy streets. The four rear rooms they rented, but 
with evident regard for appearances lived themselves in the four 
that faced the front. With the aid of the rent from the rear tene- 
ment they had succeeded in freeing the house from the mortgage. 
The families more often, however, move further from the mill. 
One I knew bought a house on the hill with two porches and a 
big yard where they kept chickens. While they had only suc- 
ceeded in paying $500 on the $1700 the place cost, now that a 
son was at work they hoped to be able to clear the debt. In the 
meantime they truly rejoiced in being on the hill above the smoke 
and away from the bustling courts. 

The English-speaking families on such streets rarely extend 
a cordial welcome. A woman who lives next door to a Slavic 
family told me that some of the neighbors objected because they 

155 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

were rather noisy and drank a good deal, though she herself found 
them pleasant enough. 

All the Slavs who prosper, however, do not try to buy prop- 
erty here. Some prefer a bank account. It is authoritatively 
stated that about 1 600 Slavs have savings bank accounts in Home- 
stead ranging from ( 100 to (looo, and even in a few instances to 
$1500. Occasionally this zeal for saving gets a setback. A few 
years ago a Slav ran an "exchange bank" in Homestead and 
when he had secured a goodly sum departed. One family was so 
discouraged at losing the I400 it had on deposit with him, of hard 
earned savings, that the woman ceased to take boarders and the 
man to work hard. 



TABLE 38. — AVERAGE EXPENDITURE OF lO SLAVIC FAMILIES COM- 
PARED WITH 42 OF ALL RACES, SPENDING MORE THAN $15 PER 
WEEK 



Slav . 
All . 



I 



I18.74 
21.19 



I 



I8.08 
8.14 



3.18 



7J 



a 



|2^6|43|3.aO 

.77 2.67 



I 



*:?2 



ll 



*t 



q 

K 

a 



1.42 



;! 



f.o6f 
.06 



f.99 
•39 



•§ 

^ 



■53 



S 



J2.27 
X85 



TABLE 39. — ^AVERAGE EXPENDITURES OF TWO GROUPS OF lO FAMI- 
LIES EACH, THOSE SPENDING $15 OR MORE A WEEK AND 
THOSE SPENDING LESS THAN (l2, WITH THE RATIO OF INCREASE 



Under |i2 
Over I15 



Ratio 



1 1 0.03 
18.74 



189 



I 



«4.6 



U 



«74 



•55 



1 1. 62 1.27 
2.46 .42 



«53 



'55 






|i-57 
2.20 



140 



I 



1.04 



^ %» c 



f"3 






»77 
1.51 

196 



2 



1.07 
.06 



1-55 
•99 



180 



•§ 

^ 



tv 






1-41 
3.37 



554 



156 



FAMILY LIFE OF THE SLAVS 

Yet not all the extra money goes into bank accounts and 
houses. If we compare the budgets'*' of the lo Slavic families 
spending more than $15 a week with the average of the 42 budget 
families (of all races) in the same expenditure groups, we shall 
find that the former increase their expenditures along much the 
same lines as do the other peoples, though it is to be noted here, as 
in the general averages, that the Slav spends a slightly larger per 
cent for food and a slightly smaller per cent for rent. 

If, on the other hand, we compare the Slavic families spend- 
ing over $15 with those spending less than $12 (Table 39), we 
find that the expenditures which have increased less rapidly than 
the income are the essentials, food, rent, fuel, and clothing; that 
insurance increases a little more rapidly, but that the great part 
of the increased pay goes for more distinctly cultural expenditures. 

This comparison, though fragmentary, suggests that on the 
whole these Slavs made a wise use of their increased earnings — 
that there is an actual increase of expenditure for every item, 
but that by far the largest gain is in that sphere which stands 
for the less material side of life, church, education, recreation and 
savings. 

For most Slavic households, however, the increased income 
which would make such increased expenditure possible must be 
looked for not from the man's wages, but, at least in the first 
years, from other sources. We have seen how the first recourse 
of the young couple is to keep lodgers and the cost to health and 
childhood that that involves. Time goes on, brings children, 
and household expenses rise, and even with increased earnings, 
tends to keep the couple at this double work. 

* For average expenditure of all Slavic families by expenditure groups, see 
Table 37, p. 153, 



»57 



CHAPTER XII 
THE SLAV ORGANIZED 

OTHER needs of the Slavs arising out of the industrial 
situation and out of their isolation, they have attempted 
to meet co-operatively by various forms of voluntary 
organization. 

The most powerful social institution influencing their lives 
is the church. Some of the Slavs belong to the Greek Catholic, 
some to the Roman Catholic communion, and both have an 
intimate hold upon their adherents. Of their full part in the 
spiritual life of the people a stranger who cannot even speak the 
language is unable to judge fairly. When at the crowded church, 
on Easter morning, I watched the men who could not find room 
to enter, standing on the steps with bent heads and open prayer 
books reverently following the service within, 1 had a vivid 
sense of the power of the church over these stalwart, slow-moving 
men. Another day I visited one of the boarding houses. Be- 
neath pictures of Christ on the Cross and "The Last Supper," a 
group about the table were engaged in a drunken quarrel. With 
these two scenes in mind, — and scenes of similar character con- 
stantly alternated in my experience in Homestead, — it was hard 
to judge how strong the spiritual influence of the church was, 
save to realize that it is an intimate part of everyday life. 

Undoubtedly priests who are sufficiently intelligent to under- 
stand the situation the Slav faces, can exercise a strong influence 
for good. The one Homestead priest who spoke English fluently 
was a man of this type, a man who seemed to comprehend the 
problems of his people and to help in their solution. He not only 
talked to the women personally but also preached from the pulpit 
against the ruin of home life that results from taking lodgers; 
he was organizing a club where the newcomers could meet Slavs 

158 



THE SLAV ORGANIZED 

who had been longer in this country and could catch from them 
some American ideas. Priests of this type may be a strong 
factor in the Americanization of the race. Unfortunately, as 
many priests speak no English and are little more in touch 
with American ideas than their people, the church life tends to 
preserve rather than to remove national distinctions. For their 
church is not merely a place for religious services; it is an insti- 
tution with both social and educational functions. 

I lived for two months near the Lithuanian church and 
always enjoyed watching the group of men that gathered outside 
the gate after service of a Sunday morning. Some came from 
neighboring towns and looked forward to this weekly chance 
for a friendly smoke and chat. 

Through parochial schools, also, the church exerts a strong 
influence. Here its activity seems less desirable since all the 
Slavic parochial schools are distinctly below the standards of the 
Homestead public schools both in construction and in teaching.* 
There are far too many pupils in each room, not enough regular 
school desks, and ventilation, lighting, toilets and water supply 
are all insufficient. The lower classes are greatly overcrowded 
and the teaching force is inadequate. One teacher said that they 
were so busy that instead of giving careful instruction to children 
ready for higher work they made them repeat the work of the 
lower grades. 

The parochial schools not only fail to provide adequate 
instruction, but also hinder the work of amalgamation in 
which public schools are so potent a factor. If the foreign chil- 
dren played and studied with American children, barriers to mutual 
understanding would be overcome. Moreover, they do not come 
into contact with intelligent American women. Of the six 
teachers in the Slavic Roman Catholic school, three spoke English 
fluently, though not correctly, three spoke almost none. By 
changing teachers, however, the principal claimed that, save for 
instruction in religion and the hour a day devoted to the Slavic 
language, all studies were taught in English. It was obvious, 

*The St. Magdalene Parochial School, attached to the Enslish-speaking 
Roman Catholic Church, was held to compare favorably with the public schools in 
equipment and instruction. 

'59 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

however, that not only was the teaching of English inadequate* 
but that those simple forms of history and literature which find 
place in our grammar schools and which are doubly important 
with foreign children, were missing. 

This indifferent work is of course permitted in part by 
failure of the parents to appreciate the importance of educa- 
tion. Though I heard of one or two Slavic children in the higher 
grades of the public school, I was told by the principal of the 
Second Ward school that few went further than the fifth grade. 
In 1907-8 one Slavic boy was in the eighth grade and the year 
before there were two. These children are bright, but if they dis- 
like school the parents do not insist upon their remaining, but put 
them early to work. 

In the 29 Slavic budget families were four children from 
fourteen to sixteen. Two were in school; the other two, both 
fourteen years old, were at work, one in a glass factory, the other 
in a bowling alley where he worked from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. for 
I4.50 per week. These were both sons of day laborers. My im- 
pression was that the Slavs did not yet consider education a good, 
investment. Instead they were usually anxious to secure the 
addition of the children's wages to an income that was truly 
slender enough. They felt that what the children learned in 
school had little relation to practical success in life, and lack of 
intercourse with Americans made them slow to appreciate its 
value. 

The influence of the church in Slavic life is intensified by 
its close connection with fraternal orders. The Slavs have 
developed a system of benefit organizations which fill a large 
rdle in the life of this isolated portion of the community. While 
it was difficult to secure comprehensive data, I learned of at least 
26 lodges in Homestead. Twenty-two of these had a total mem- 
bership of 2108, 1765 of whom were men. The Slovaks, Croa- 
tians, Poles, Hungarians, and Lithuanians have their independent 
societies, and intermingling among these groups is rare. How 
closely most of the organizations are connected with the church is 
suggested by their names, such as St. Joseph's Croatian Society and 
St. Mary Magdalena's First Ladies Slovak Catholic Union. That 
this connection is not merely nominal is shown by the customary 

160 



THE SLAV ORGANIZED 

requirement that members shall belong to the church, with 
the frequent specification that they shall attend mass at least 
on Easter Sunday. The symbol of the Greek Catholic Union is 
an eagle bearing the United States flag in one talon and the cross 
of the church in the other. 

Table 40, on the next page, gives the membership, nation- 
ality and benefits of these various organizations. 

Finding themselves aliens in the community, their habits 
and customs not understood by their neighbors, and their needs 
to a large extent a matter of indifference, the Slavs have thus 
bound themselves together for mutual helpfulness. While such 
societies are found in most communities where there are a number 
of people of this race, the tendency to develop them is intensified 
in Homestead by the constant dangers of work in the mill. There 
are many accidents among the Slavs. The hazards are accentu- 
ated by their ignorance of these dangers and by their difficulty in 
understanding the orders of English-speaking "bosses." Given 
this constant peril of accident or death,* and a community 
which takes little interest in the immigrant's welfare, the extent 
to which the lodge has been developed is not surprising. 

Without exception these lodges are "beneficial" in char- 
acter; all give a death benefit, and many also a sick benefit. The 
death benefits are usually larger than those given in the Ameri- 
can lodges, amounting in at least one-third of these societies to 
1 1 000. In three societies giving this benefit, the average assess- 
ment for three months during the winter studied was |i .75. This 
figure included regular lodge dues and in addition to the sum at 
death provided a sick benefit of I5.00 a week for thirteen weeks, 
and |2. 50 a week for the succeeding thirteen weeks, thus compar- 
ing favorably with the rates of other fraternal insurance orders. 
The Polish society does not give a regular death benefit, but 

* If they live abroad, the family of an alien killed at his work in Pennsyl- 
vania is barred by state law from recovering damages even when the accident 
may be due to the gross n^ligence of his employer. This pernicious law has 
been properly disregarded bv the Cameffie Relief Fund in awarding benefits. The 
new relief plan of the Uniteci States Steel Corporation covers in its stated provisions 
only " married men living with their families." Awards to the families of aliens 
living abroad are thus left to the discretion of company managers — a sweeping ex- 
ception in view of the great numbers of immigrants employed in the mines and 
mills of the corporation. See Appendix XU, p. 249. 

11 161 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



£3 

i 



o 

b. 

z 

bJ 

flQ 
O 

z 
< 

£3 

D 
O 



X 

bJ 
flQ 

bJ 

1 

u 

_] 



2 SS 



«» « c 

•C'C P 



c c 
c« f« 5 

3 sec J, 



8 2 



«> 
^ 






8^ III I 



8 



5,5; r* n « *tN 






<750 






-8 



■^-s 





"^.■^i^S) 











i;^i 



i 



c 
o 
Z 






o 



8 



O 
trs 

n 



8 



O - •» oy-a< 

« O O 5 
t r* ri « rf% 



8 



k/\ 






t750 



t.% 



oZ 









88 



88 S 



-* o o J» 



socoZ 



1 



trs 



85:i>8 



o — w o _ 









« O O > 
O t. r* n 4» rrx 



c 



o 

c 
o 

to 



ec 

3 



JQ 

E 

« 

E 



u 

CI 

E 
E 



ir\' 



M O 






I 



mcoZ 



^f3 i do 8 






8888 



O t 5* r« « rfN 



S 

> 



c 

S;e § 

-uz 






88 8 









8 



^ tf) o 



r2^3^i sigSL 8 

15!'^ a^^ O O O O i*^ . 



SO 



C 



c 
'.2 

'♦3 
u 

^^ 



M 



C ♦* _ 

agzO 



B 
E 



c 
.9 



2 oS 
E 2 



3 






c 

§ 

E 






9 

o 



162 



w m:£: a> c v 

t2 (« (« (Q M w! V 

S-^o 8 8 o o. 



*5» 

o ^ 

Z 






B 
O 



B 

«8 

O 



C 
^.E 

J3 BtB 

If 

fli t: «« 
** 3 V 

B-U 



-1 2 

•i5 2 

«> «o «} 

>> 

♦ -1-3 






M 

B 
O 

u 



THE SLAV ORGANIZED 

assesses each member of the lodge (i.oo at the death of any 
member. Large benefits are scarcely possible save when local 
lodges are affiliated with national organizations ; as the death benefits 
are then paid from the central treasury, the burden is shared by the 
entire membership. The contrast between local and national or- 
ganizations was shown in the mine disaster in 1908 at Monongah, 
West Virginia. Here, though 27 members of one Slavic lodge 
were killed, the national organization was able to meet the emer- 
gency without serious difficulty. A Polish society, on the other 
hand, which lost half its members and depended entirely on con- 
tributions from the local lodge, could give only a small benefit. 

Usually if the wife of a member dies, or if the man receives a 
serious injury such as the loss of a limb or an eye, a portion of the 
death benefit may be paid to the beneficiary. If totally disabled, 
the member receives the entire amount of the death benefit and 
then ceases to be a member of the organization. With wages 
so low as to make it practically impossible for a man to save 
enough to provide for catastrophes, these collective funds are often 
all that stand between a family and destitution. To help families 
in temporary difficulties, societies usually give a sick benefit of 
1 5. 00 a week for varying periods of time. This practice is less 
frequent in the women's societies because of the difficulty in 
determining when a woman is entitled to a sick benefit. In these 
homes where everything depends upon the mother, she can rarely 
give up even when she is really ill. That all but two of the Slavic 
families from whom budgets were secured, belonged to at least 
one lodge and many to more than one, shows a genuine appreci- 
ation of this form of insurance. The administration of the funds 
of these organizations is thought to be safeguarded by bonds of 
the officials, especially of the treasurer; and through initiation fees 
and a special assessment, reserve funds are created to be used in 
emergencies. Yet a common public prudence should demand 
state inspection of the insurance operations of these orders. 

These lodges also play an important part in social life. They 
offer some amusement in a community where there is little else 
available for the Slavs. The meetings themselves, while nominally 
for business, afford a chance for coming together, while dances and 
other festivities are held at intervals. Through them the stranger 

163 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

comes quickly into touch with his own people. Especially is this 
true of the men who move from one part of the country to another 
in search of work. Traveling cards issued by the home lodge of 
a society, and recognized by members of the local lodge in any 
community, assure a man welcome and assistance wherever he goes. 
This service, a strong feature with any fraternal order, is particu- 
larly valuable to the Slav, with hb ignorance of the ways of the 
new country and even of its language. The fellow members of a 
lodge become nurses who care for the sick or injured during nights 
of suffering, and friends who give comfort in times of bereavement. 

The Slavic lodges are usually limited to the members of one 
nationality, Slovak, Hungarian, Polish, and in so far as they tend 
to perpetuate racial and religious feuds, miss their opportunity to 
amalgamate the immigrant colony. In this they differ from the 
lodges of the English-speaking community; these usually include 
representatives of all the English-speaking nationalities, and 
thus create a common social intercourse. They stop short there, 
however, and in turn fail to become the unifying force which 
they might if they were to welcome foreigners to their mem- 
bership. The Slavs, it is true, prefer to belong to a lodge in 
which they can speak their own language; but this tendency to 
form separate societies is intensified by the suspicions aroused by 
the fact that they have been victims of a number of fraudulent 
American organizations. The chief reason, however, is the dislike 
on the part of the English-speaking people to include " Hunkies" 
in any organization which would bring them into social and 
personal contact. Even Slavs who have attained a good standing 
financially have not been welcomed into the American societies. 

Nor does the work of the mill, the one common element in 
the life of the town, afford the relationships which might naturally 
spring up. There are no labor unions in Homestead as there are in 
the mines, to give a common interest to Pole, Slav and native bom, 
and pave the way for mutual understanding and citizenship. 
The policy of the mill thus again becomes a factor in the life of 
the town, this time to accentuate the failure of its residents to 
bridge over lines of cleavage, and create a normal community life. 

The separation between Slavs and English-speaking people 
is evident not only in church and school and lodge but also in 

164 



n by Jostph SIdIa 

Old Worlds in New 



THE SLAV ORGANIZED 

politics. Here again, even when Slavs are imbued with our 
civic ideals, language stands as a barrier to mutual understanding. 
Ignorant of our forms of political machinery, they can take a real 
part in the town's political life only after a slow process of educa- 
tion. Few of the Slavs are citizens. Only six per cent of those 
employed in the mill in 1907 had taken out papers, whereas 63.6 
per cent of the other Europeans were naturalized. Many Slavs, 
of course, are ineligible because of their short residence and others 
because of their inability to read and write English. 

Those who become citizens fmd it difficult to comprehend 
our complicated political system or to follow newspaper dis- 
cussions of party platforms or of aspirants for local offices. As a 
result, through the simple devjce of an organization manipulated 
by the older residents, they fall into line and are instructed which 
way to vote. Rumors of fraudulent registration and voting are 
more or less current. Both the Slavic leaders and other local 
politicians agree that a deal is usually made in Homestead and the 
Slavic vote goes to the party which promises a place on the police 
or some other minor office to a Slav. Direct bribery is apparently 
rare. 

That under it all the Slav has a genuine political idealism 
is'whimsically illustrated by quoting from a paper written by a Slav. 
This idealism is not strange in a people whose political rights have 
always been restricted whether in Austria, or Poland, or Russia, 
and it seems deplorable that their genuine enthusiasm for democ- 
racy should not be enabled to find early and fair expression: 

The Slav race, and without exception all the Slav nation- 
alities, are the most and sincere patriotic people of our great 
Republic the United States, because they have found here 
all that of which they have been robbed in their old coun- 
tries. They have found in the United States i>ersonal and 
common liberty, free and independent civilization, welfare 
and all that which the aborigines of the English and other 
races have there found themselves. Therefore the Slavic 
races are the most zealous supporters of all the state and 
social institutions. Because this way, the Slavs are interested 
in the moral and material development and evolution of this 
country; they are supporting every time that political party 
which does seem to them the most honest, moral and virtuous 

165 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Earty. Because now the Republican party and the whole 
fnited States under the most honest, circumspect, and glori- 
ous leadership of our most beloved president Mr. Theodore 
Roosevelt, are enjoying, just in the latest years, a degree of 
evolution in every respect, naturally the Slav are mostly 
Republicans and are following the steps which President 
Roosevelt does designate. Very small amount of the Slav 
is democratic. Socialistic are some, maybe 1000-2000, but 
not a single Anarchist* 

Some general observations may be ventured growing out of 
my impressions of the isolated life of these Homestead immigrants. 

It is clearly a vital need that the Slavs learn our language. 
Sixty per cent of the Slavic workers in the mill in 1907 were re- 
ported as illiterate. A night school carried on in 1906-7 in the 
labor camp a few miles distant, at Aspinwall, under the auspices of 
the Society for Italian Immigrants, demonstrated that the immi- 
grant welcomes instruction in civics and English, and led to the 
passage of a state law permitting the opening of such classes in the 
public schools upon the petition of twenty residents. Up to 1908, 
the schools in Homestead had done nothing in this direction. The 
buildings were empty at night, and might easily have been utilized 
for teaching English and a simple form of civics. During periods 
of slack work, such as that of 1908, men would welcome such 
classes as a diversion during the long hours of enforced idleness. 

Two attempts to give instruction in English had been made 
by other agencies than the schools. A Baptist missionary who 
spoke most of the Slavic languages started a class and reported 
that the men showed a marked eagerness to learn. The Carnegie 
Library made the first considerable effort to reach them by opening 
its clubs to the Slavs. Aside from a class in English, however, these 
had not been adapted to non-English-speaking people. Even the 
Slavic books, which the library bought for their benefit, were 
seldom used. I found that a number of the influential Slavs in 
Homestead did not know that these books were in the library, 
indicating that this failure was due to a lack of successful adver- 
tising. The fact that the building is on the hill away from their 
homes, and has an imposing entrance which makes the laborer 
hesitate to enter, and that there are forms that must be gone 

*The complete paper will be found in Appendix XIV, p. 371. 

166 



THE SLAV ORGANIZED 

through before the books can be secured, also have doubtless 
acted as deterrent influences. That a considerable proportion of 
the members of the Library Club are immigrants, shows that these 
obstacles have not stood in their way in the use of such practical 
things as the baths. But if the library is really to reach the foreign 
population culturally it must not wait for them to come to it; it 
should go to them. A simple reading room opening into the courts 
where the people live, where they could drop in after the day's 
work, find newspapers and books in their own tongue, and where 
the Americanized Slav could reach his newly arrived brethren, 
would become an important center of influence. 

In such a mill town, great distances do not exist to act as 
barriers. But education and contact is needed to overcome the 
deep-rooted prejudices of the resident race. If anything, they 
are more ignorant of the inherent character of the Slav and 
his culture, than he is of theirs. Mutual understanding would be 
achieved the sooner were the American fraternal organizations 
to adopt the policy of welcoming these aliens; or were the Catholic 
church to exert a more definite influence to bring men of all races 
together as well as to hold each race firmly intact, to interpret 
America to them no less than to preserve the religious heritages 
they bring from the churches of mid-Europe. In politics, social 
bonds are less personal, and an aggressive, thoroughly democratic 
civic movement in Homestead, no less than the ward politics of 
the proverbial Pennsylvania type, might serve to bring men of all 
races to touching elbows. 

With this lack of intercourse it is now difficult if not im- 
possible for the immigrant to come into a knowledge of our insti- 
tutions, yet through local legislation certain American standards 
could be made general. Laws and ordinances are in themselves 
valuable media of social education. Through them we can make 
our standards clear to the minds of the newcomers and impose the 
minimum standards of a community upon all its dwellers. English- 
speaking residents in Homestead live under fairer conditions than 
the Slavs, partly because they demand room enough and healthful 
surroundings. The Slav, coming from a crowded household on 
a farm, may not understand why overcrowding and unflushed 
vaults are intolerable in this closely built section where he now 

167 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

lives. The importance of cleanliness and proper sanitary con- 
veniences can be visibly demonstrated by means of well enforced 
ordinances. Were the health officer to insist that the Slav take 
fewer lodgers so that there might be air enough for all, and that 
the landlord put decent plumbing and running water in the house, 
the Slav would gradually conform to these new requirements. 
Indeed, both the good and the bad may be new to him, and he 
may regard the overcrowding as American. 

In education, also, effective borough action might help to 
raise standards. While Homestead has a compulsory school law, 
it suffers in enforcement because there is a gap between the ad- 
ministration of the public and parochial schools. As a result 
some children are not in school at all and many are not r^[ular 
attendants. If the school law were strictly enforced, the Slav 
would the sooner realize that in the American democracy educa- 
tion is regarded as an absolute essential. 

Differences in languages, in customs, in organizations, as we 
have seen, have made a sharp demarcation between the two halves 
of this still growing town. The lack of mutual understanding is 
of course no more marked in Homestead than in many American 
industrial or commercial centers. But while they are yet towns it 
seems possible to work out some solution, before such round-about 
methods as those of social settlements are necessary to bridge 
the gulf. Through the existing factors of law, of the public schools, 
of political parties, such contact might be brought about as would 
hasten the slow process of amalgamation. As it is, the Slavs in 
Homestead, in their neighborhoods, their schools, their churches, 
their lodges, their political groups, are a people apart. In isolated 
groups they are trying to solve the problem set by the economic 
and social conditions which confront them in this town. Some 
surer footing and readier fraternity is needed if the Slavic day 
laborer is to be other than a menace to his own well-being and to 
that of the community; if in the American sense, he and his family 
are to "get on" in life. 

In conclusion, we may well ask what awaits him if he does; 
how is life bounded for the households in Homestead, whether of 
the Slav or native bom ? 

i68 



PART IV 
THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 



CHAPTER XI 11 
THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

THROUGHOUT this study I have referred frequently to 
the ways in which the one industry in the town through 
wages, hours and conditions of work limits the fulfillment 
of the family ideals. This is not because the industry sprang up 
like a wicked ogre to carry on depredations among the towns- 
people, but because the employment it offers is the economic 
basis both of the household life and the town life; it makes both 
possible; and the terms and conditions on which it offers this 
employment must directly affect the everyday living of both. 

It may be well, therefore, to sum up this discussion in a more 
definite fashion; first, by defining the limitations due to hours 
and conditions of work in the Homestead mills (interpreting 
somewhat the attitude of the men toward this problem); and 
second, by drawing from our budget study of what can be secured 
for a given weekly expenditure, some more general conclusions 
about wages. It is the workman himself who feels the first of 
these limitations; through him the routine and hazards of the 
day's work affect the family. The second acts more directly upon 
the family; to the household no less than to the man, the mill 
determines the livelihood; it is the housekeeper's purse strings 
that are tugged with every wage cut and loosened with every 
advance a man makes in the mill from the pay of common labor 
to the higher tonnage rates. 

The first of these reactions of the mill on the town is subtle 
and hard to demonstrate. Yet no one who has lived in Home- 
stead can fail to realize how definitely the conditions under which 
they work influence the mental as well as the physical develop- 
ment of the men. 

In an earlier chapter I spoke of the twelve-hour day spent 
in tumult and in heat, the heavy work, the periodic intensity of 

171 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

labor at the rolls and the furnaces for the skilled steel workers. 
The onlooker, fascinated by the picturesqueness of it all, sees 
in the great dim sheds a wonderful revelation of the creative 
powers of man. To the worker this fascination is gone; heat and 
grime, noise and effort are his part in the play. The spectacular 
features may serve only to heighten the over-strain which accom- 
panies continuous processes whenever, as here, the full twenty- 
four hours is split between two shifts. In the open-hearth de- 
partment in Homestead in October, 1907, 15 17 men worked a 
twelve-hour day, as against 93 who worked ten. In the Bessemer 
department, there were nine men who worked an eight-hour day, 
19 who worked eleven; the remaining 153 worked the full twelve. 
In the rolling mills some common laborers were employed eleven 
hours, but the men in the processes were dividing the twenty-four 
hours of the day and night between two shifts. (The normal day 
of the yard laborer was ten hours.) These long hours restrict 
the development of the individual. They give the men in the 
two shifts little time for outside interests. The week that a man 
works on the night turn, from 5.30 p. m. to 7.30 a. m., he has 
plainly small time to do anything but eat and get such sleep as 
he can. The other week he has, of course, such leisure as falls to 
any ten-hour worker. This alternation of shifts lets the men out 
of consecutive night work, but it interferes with that regularity 
of meals and of sleep which physicians tell us is essential to health. 
When a man sleeps in the daytime alternate weeks, it means 
continual change and adjustment. One week he has supper at 
4.30 p. m., works all night, has breakfast at 8 a. m., and has a 
more or less broken sleep during the day. The alternate week 
he has supper at 6 p. m., breakfast at 6.30, and a good night's 
sleep between. Sometimes when sons who are in the mill are on 
*the opposite shift from the father, the family cannot even meet 
for meals. The irregularity in hours not only adds in the long 
run to the fatigue of the work and breaks into the family life, but 
also makes weekly engagements, such as lodge meetings, im- 
possible, and prevents the men from taking much part in other 
activities. 

Some local ministers said they believed that this stiff rou- 
tine tends to develop steadiness on the part of the mill workers; 

172 



THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

one clergyinan, for instance, told me that most of the hard drink- 
ing he knew was among men who had irregular work either as 
teamsters or in the building trades. Yet the existence of the 
fifty or more saloons in Homestead indicates that drinking is a 
prevalent form of excitement in the town. And exhaustion, 
coupled with the thirst occasioned by the heat in the mills, is at 
least partly responsible for the number of men who seek stimulus 
from drink. 

A further depressing result of the overwork in the mills is 
the mental fatigue which accompanies it. The men are too tired 
to take an active part in family life; they are usually ready after 
smoking a pipe to go to bed. They have small interest in outside 
matters and consequently make little effort to increase the 
provision of amusements in the town, a condition from which 
their wives and children suffer. Again, with the broken Sunday, 
which is due either to work on that day or to work Saturday 
night or Sunday night, it is easy to drift away from church, 
and many ministers fmd it almost impossible to secure the atten- 
dance of the men. One man who usually had to work at least 
part time on Saturday night said to me that he was far too tired 
to get up to go to church on Sunday morning. In the year of 
our study one man in five worked on seven days in the seven in 
the steel mills of Allegheny County.* 

All this is bound up with perhaps the most serious outcome 
of conditions in the mill, the tendency to develop in the men a 
spirit of taking things as they come. As we noted in the chapter 
dealing with the growth of Homestead, while the industry has 
attained a marvelous degree of efficiency the town as a political 
unit has failed. Men weary with long hours of work, men who 
have been refused any share in determining the conditions under 
which they work, are not prompted to seize opportunities for 

'I' " It is my own deliberate judgment, after a period of almost thirty years' 
continuous connection with the industry, the early part of which was passed in 
manual labor in the mills, that the present conditions, which necessitate the em- 
ployment of the same individual workman twelve hours a day for seven days a 
week, are a reproach to our great industry and should not in this enlightened age 
be longer tolerated." — From an address May 27, 191 o, by Wm. B. Dickson, First 
Vice President of the United States Steel Corporation before the American Iron 
and Steel Institute. As a young man, Mr. Dickson worked at the rolls in the 
Homestead Mills. 

173 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

improving the conditions under which they live. Their habitual 
suppression industrially has meant a loss of initiative. Some- 
how it is easier to pay a neighbor fifty cents a month for the 
privilege of bringing drinking water three times a day from his 
well, than to insist that the borough provide a wholesome supply. 
There is, therefore, in the routine of life outside the mill, 
little to stimulate these men to mental alertness, nor did my talks 
with them give me the impression that their work within it 
tended to supply this want. At different points in the process 
are men upon whose experience and judgment rest heavy responsi- 
bilities. But where individual skill was formerly a constant 
element, little by little that skill, as well as much of the crudest 
manual labor, is being transferred to the machines. As you watch 
a crane pick up "buggies" of scrap iron, empty them into a 
furnace, and then move on to repeat the operation, you feel that 
the machine itself must be alive until you see the man who pulls 
lever after lever with strong, steady hand. The demands upon 
this man's faculties during working hours are not those which 
had to be met by the old time craftsmen in metals. Improve- 
ments in process are, some of them, the result of the men's prac- 
tical suggestions, which are welcomed eagerly by the superinten- 
dents, tested, and when practicable adopted. I was told that the 
recompense in most instances is small — ^sometimes a gift of money. 
Evidence, however, of quickness and ingenuity undoubtedly 
increases the possibility of promotion. The exceptional man may 
become an influential official, and the officials of the Steel G>rpora- 
tion state that there is as keen a demand for prize men as ever. 
Not a few instances, such as Mr. Schwab's rapid rise, are well 
known. But with 7000 men employed in this one mill, — with 
half of the payroll made up of unskilled men, — with the tendency 
at every point to reduce the number of skilled men, — with a 
majority of the mills in all sections of the country of the same sort 
practically under the one management, the prospect of rapid 
advancement for the rank and file becomes more and more un- 
certain. The sentiment frequently expressed among Homestead 
people that promotion is due to a pull, may be only a feeling, 
but it strengthens their belief that for this generation the future 
will hold little more than the present. The younger men are 

174 



THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

sometimes ambitious to study and work up, but the older ones 
feel that there is nothing ahead for them. 

On the other hand, the memory of the lost fight of 1892 is 
still vivid, and the decisions of the corporate employer are not 
accepted without mental protest. 

Probably no outsider can ever know just what the men do 
think about it all. Certain impressions, however, gathered in 
talks with many of them may be worth stating, as showing the 
lines along which Homestead men think. That the older men 
lack confidence in trade unions is not strange. The strike de- 
stroyed the enthusiasm that comes with success, and the hesita- 
tion about attempting to reorganize has been intensified by the 
growth of the G>rporation and its policy of repressing any col- 
lective action. Its industrial achievements and great strength 
make it a foe not to be antagonized, and the men have realized 
its power to the full. Those who were refused re-employment 
because of their part in the strike, found, as I have said, that 
they could get no work in any mill of the Carnegie Steel Company 
and were in some instances unable to get it in any other steel 
mill. Furthermore, common report has it that anyone who 
proposes trade unionism in the mill is promptly discharged, and 
experience has gone to prove this. One phrase current in the 
town is: "If you want to talk in Homestead, you must talk to 
yourself." "What is the use?" is apparently the men's feeling. 
The people who determine their hours, their wages and the condi- 
tions under which they work, are to them a small group of men in 
New York, who know little and perhaps care less what the decision 
of a 10 per cent cut in his rates means to a man who has been averag- 
ing I3.00 a day; still less what it means to his wife and children. 
While the majority of the workers understand only vaguely 
the organization of a great industry, or the factors entering into 
its policies, they feel that their conditions of life are determined 
by forces too large for them to battle with. 

That the men look on the Corporation as a hard taskmaster 
was shown in many ways. Some even believed that the reason it 
offered to sell stock to the employes was in order to find out how 
much money they had saved, an opinion strengthened among 
them by a cut in wages which followed soon after the men had 

175 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

taken advantage of the first offer. Again, many of them expressed 
the belief that my own investigation was being made by the 
Corporation to find out whether wages would stand another 
reduction. While these people were not among the more intelli- 
gent of those I visited, they illustrate an undercurrent of con- 
viction that the Corporation is concerned only with making money 
and has no interest in the men. 

Two states of mind result from this belief. Many simply 
accept conditions as they are. As one woman said, " I tell my 
husband that as long as he stays here he has no business to groan 
at what the company does. If he doesn't like it, he'd better get 
out." Others, especially men with families, whose own wages 
may be fair and work steady, feel that it would be foolish to 
attempt any movement which might result in loss of work in 
Homestead. This may be common sense, but one regrets the 
passive attitude which results from the lack of concerted action. 

Not all the men, however, thus accept the situation. 
When, as in 1908, the mills stand idle and the household in- 
come ceases, while the Corporation deals out its quarterly divi- 
dend, many are not sure that things are as they ought to be. 
A man whose earnings for two months during the depression had 
not paid his rent said, " I know the superintendent can't help it. 
He has done the best he can and tried to see that all of us got a 
little work. But I think that the men in the New York office are 
to blame."* A consciousness of the complexity of the situation 
made this man feel that the concerted action of trade unionism 
would be helpless to affect the conditions of work. A small but 
apparently growing group, recognizing that the industry is too 
large for them to cope with, look toward socialism for a solution. 
State interference seems to them the only means of changing the 
situation. Those who think thus are not extremists; they are 

* An incident occurred recently in which the editor of a local newspaper at- 
tempted to shift responsibility as between Homestead and New York, and which 
may or may not throw some light upon the prevalence of this attitude among the 
people. In March, 1910, the executive officials of the United States Steel Corpora- 
tion notified the constituent companies that the rule prohibiting unnecessary Sun- 
day work, which had been a dead letter, must be observed thereafter. Pittsburgh 
and Homestead newspapers gave local officials credit for this advanced step, and 
a Homestead paper cteclined^ to publish the text of the orders which showed their 
real origin. 

176 



THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

workingmen who simply can see no other way out. These men 
held few meetings and attempted no propagandist work; they 
accepted the socialist program as an individual hope. 

The attitude of discontent, however, is not universal. Some 
who have done well in the mill are loyal to it, and are proud 
of its reputation ; others are won over by the plan by which the 
Corporation sells stock to its employes. Those who hold shares 
acknowledge that they have a different attitude toward the busi- 
ness and more zeal for making it pay. One woman, however, 
whose husband has a few shares, told me with some scorn of herself, 
that they recognized that their attitude had changed. They 
realized after all, she said, that the small dividend from the stock 
did little to make up for the fact that her husband's wages had 
been cut 20 per cent in the fifteen years of their married life.* 
Whether or not this sense of rebellion is inevitable or justifiable, it 
is bound up with complications due to the remoteness and the 
size of the employing corporation and to the fact that there is no 
appeal from its decisions. 

In Superintendent A. R. Hunt, the local representative of 
the Corporation in Homestead, the men have a real confi- 
dence, f In his younger days he was one of their number and 
his many personal kindnesses make them trust him. He is, 
however, responsible to the Pittsburgh office for cheapening the 
cost of production which is in turn responsible to headquarters 
in New York for economies, output and profits. Moreover, 
decisions on many vital points come from a distance, and since they 
are for the whole industry seem hopelessly unrelated to the local 



'('Among tonnage men changes in process, and improvements in machinery, 
as well as increased speeding of the woric. have notably mcreased output on many 
lines, so that adjustments of rates have had to be made from time to time, to fit 
the new conditions in the different departments. Sometimes these adjustments 
have not meant a reduction of earnings, in other cases they have; a policy to reduce 
the pay of the highest paid men has been consistently carried out. These changes 
are distinct from horizontal decreases and increases in tonnage or day rates affect- 
ing the whole force. In all cases, the men have no say as to the new rates. See 
Fitch, John A.: The Steel Workers, a companion volume in the Pittsburgh Survey 
series. 

t Mr. Hunt, A. C. Dinkey, president of the Carnegie Steel Company, Charles 
M. Schwab former president, Wm. E. Corey, president, and Wm. B. Dickson first 
vice-president, of the United States Steel Corporation are all men who have worked 
up from the ranks in the Homestead plant. 

13 177 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

situation. I was told that when Mr. Schwab was made presi- 
dent of the newly organized Steel Corporation, the men, with whom 
he had been very popular, believed that with "Charlie" in New 
York, their interests would be safeguarded; but when a new cut 
in wages was made their hopes fell. 

The workers not only have no representatives who can confer 
with the local management on disputed points, but they have a 
sense of being utterly outside the great moving center of the in- 
dustry. The thing that is clear to them is that, for many, rates 
have been cut and earnings lowered, while the men whose names are 
linked with steel finance are making fortunes. Nor is this feeling 
lessened by the part which these same men have actually played 
in Homestead. Mr. Carnegie has given a library, Mr. Schwab a 
manual training school, and Mr. Frick a charming little park 
in the centre of the hill section. These generous gifts beautify 
Homestead and provide something toward its recreation and 
intellectual stimulus. Yet, though the people are very proud of 
them, many a man said to me, "We'd rather they hadn't cut 
our wages and'd let us spend the money for ourselves. What 
use has a man who works twelve hours a day for a library, 
anyway?" They appreciate what the library and manual train- 
ing offer to them and their children, but they resent a philan- 
thropy which provides opportunities for intellectual and social 
advancement while it withholds conditions which make it possible 
to take advantage of them. 

Moreover, these men have given money rather than leader- 
ship. There is a noticeable contrast between this and some mill 
communities where the owners live in the town and take a genuine 
interest in its development. Homestead has no leaders. When 
in conversation I suggested that some changes in the sanitary 
ordinances should be made, I was told that only a man of influ- 
ence could accomplish it. But no one could suggest the man. 

On the other hand, as was pointed out in Chapter lU a 
heavy burden is imposed upon Homestead through the fact that 
most of the mill property is set off in a separate borough. Mun- 
hall, where most of the Carnegie Company's holdings are located, 
is more attractive, has better water and sewerage, and has no over- 
crowded section. It is the residence place of the mill officials 

178 



THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

and has the income from the taxation of the mill property. The 
borough may almost be said to be part of the plant. Here the 
wealth and influence of the industry make themselves felt in those 
external conditions which react on the whole life of the residents. 

In Munhall the tax rate in 1907 was only 8^ mills, which 
nevertheless brought 140,000 a year into the town's treasury 
from the Carnegie Steel Company. In Homestead, across the 
imaginary borough lines where the greater part of the workers 
live, the mill owns little property subject to taxation; here the 
tax rate was 1 5 mills and the company paid a tax of I7000 only. 
Through these borough divisions the Corporation has thus been 
largely relieved of contributing to the maintenance of the com- 
munity which is necessary to its operation. That burden is 
borne by the homes of the wage-earners gathered to do its work. 

It is through the households themselves that the industrial 
situation impresses itself indelibly upon the life of the people. 
The environment of the home afforded by this checkerboard 
town tilted on the slope back of the mill site, the smoke which 
pours its depressing fumes to add their extra burden to the house- 
wife's task, the constant interference with orderly routine due to 
the irregular succession of long hours — these are outward and 
visible signs of the subordination of household life to industrial 
life. The mill affects the family even more intimately through 
the wage scale to which the standards of home making, house- 
keeping, and child rearing must conform. Here the impressions 
gained by a season's residence in Homestead are supported by the 
limited but definite facts as to expenditures afforded by the budget 
study of ninety families. These were recapitulated in an earlier 
chapter (page 102), and it is only necessary hereto relate them to 
the standards of the two main groups in the wage-earning popula- 
tion which have been considered in this book. For whatever may 
be the triumph or failure of the steel plant as a manufactory, it must 
also be judged by the part it has borne in helping or hindering 
this town, which has grown up on the farm land at the river bend, 
in becoming a sound member of the American commonwealth. 

By far the largest and most serious group to consider is 
that of the unskilled workers — earning day laborers' wages. 

179 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

With unrestricted immigration, and the development of half-auto- 
matic processes, the trend as we have seen is toward an increase 
of this unskilled labor both proportionately and in gross numbers. 

The analysis of expenditures indicates that the man who earns 
$9.90 a week, as do a majority of such laborers, and who has a 
family of normal size to support, can provide for them only a two- 
room tenement in a crowded court, with no sanitary conveniences; 
a supply of food below the minimum sufficient for mere physical 
well-being; insurance that makes provision which is utterly inade- 
quate for the family left without a breadwinner; a meagre expendi- 
ture for clothes and furniture, and an almost negligible margin for 
recreation, education and savings. Many can, to be sure, add to 
their earnings by working seven days a week instead of six; by 
working twelve hours a day instead of ten; but after all, we are 
talking of standards of life and labor for an American industry, 
and common sense will scarcely sanction such a week of work. 
Many, too, as we have seen, take in lodgers, but do it at the cost 
of decency and health. 

It may be claimed that the Slavs are single men and get 
ahead quickly. But two-thirds of the immigrant Slavs in the 
Homestead mills are married men. And the exceptional one who 
gets ahead in the mill only serves to set off the fact that the main 
body of the employes are unskilled workers and will continue 
such so long as steel processes remain as they are. 

Granted that to the majority of the Slavs, if ambitious, the 
industry does not afford opportunities to prosper and to become 
assimilated, still it may be argued that mill work, like gang labor 
on railway construction, must be regarded as transitional, a 
stage in the progress of the immigrant until he has learned our 
language and ways. Nobody knows whether this is true in a 
large way of the Slavs of the steel district. What we do know 
is that however the individuals in their ranks change, the unskilled 
laborers as an economic group persist. They have been a perma- 
nent factor in the social life of Homestead. The community as a 
whole must suffer if this persisting group lives amid an unwhole- 
some environment and undergoes a deterioration in physical 
efficiency. The wage which the mill pays, while it may bring a 
little fortune to the single men who herd in a lodging house, offers 

180 



Type of Steel Wo 



THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

to the men who bring their families and plan to become American 
citizens terms which, coupled with their ignorance and ambitions, 
tend to distort and depress in these formative years the things we 
hold most precious in every home. 

As I waited one day in one of the little railroad stations of 
Homestead, a Slav came in and sat down beside a woman with 
a two-year-old child. He made shy advances to the baby, coaxing 
her in a voice of heart-breaking loneliness. She would not come 
and finally her mother took her away. The Slav turned to the 
rest of the company, and taking us all into his confidence said 
very simply, "Me wife, me babe, Hungar." But were his family 
in Homestead it would mean death for one baby in three; it 
would mean hard work in a little, dirty, unsanitary house for the 
mother; it would mean sickness and evil. With them in Hungary 
it meant for him isolation and loneliness and the abnormal life 
of the crowded lodging house. 

The terms offered unskilled immigrant labor in the Home- 
stead mills are not, it should be borne in mind, exceptional. The 
rate paid day labor by the Carnegie Company in 1907 was higher 
than that paid in some of the independent plants in Pittsburgh; 
it was 10 per cent higher than the rate paid in 1901 ; yet it is fair 
to compare it also with the rate paid unskilled labor in those 
bituminous mines of western Pennsylvania where the men through 
the unions have appreciably affected the course of wages and hours. 
According to Professor Commons, common laborers in the mines 
were paid I2.36 for an eight-hour day in 1907.* Their weekly 
earnings exceeded those of a Slavic laborer in a steel mill by two 
full days' pay a week. They somewhat exceeded the average 
expenditure (1 13.32) of the |i2 to I15 budget group among the 
mill workers which, as we have seen, approximated the amount 
it is possible for a six-day man to provide for his family on 
I2.25 a day. In the expenditures of this second budget group of 
mill workers, we found (Chap. VI) the food cost was about 25 cents 

* As against 1 1 .6^ for a ten-hour day and I1.98 for a twelve-hour day in the 
steel mills. See article oy Professor John K. Commons, The Survey, March 6, 1909, 
p. 1063. As already noted, the common labor rate in Homestead was raised May 1. 
1910, to lyi cents an hour, or 1 10.50 per week. This comparison with mine labor, 
however, still stands. 

181 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

a day a man — a small leeway for large families or indifferent 
housekeeping; rent that would give three rooms, though not 
with sanitary conveniences; clothing sufficient to meet Mr. 
Chapin's minimum for essentials, and a remaining sum of f 1.37 
a week for recreation, education, church, savings, and sundries. 
In other words, such a level, reached by one of the great industries 
of the region, would seem to afford a foothold of physiical sufficiency 
upon which a newcomer can begin the American stru^le without 
great hazard to his family or to the community in which he casts 
his fortunes. 

As a permanent basis for American life, we must look to a 
larger budget. We must take account of the fact that the sted 
industry is on a different footing from the small, quickly develop- 
ing plants in the early days. There is practically no chance 
that the steel worker may himself become an employer, and only 
a lesser chance that he may secure a highly paid administrative 
position. More than that, while the day labor rate has been 
raised, steel officials admit that there has been a continued policy 
of reducing the earnings of the highest paid men, such as heaters 
and rollers, some of whom in the years when output was in- 
creasing by leaps and bounds made very large sums. It is, 
therefore, only a livelihood after all to whidi the average man has 
to look forward if he puts his working years into the steel industry. 
The steady work offered by the Homestead mill makes it possible 
for the English-speaking steel worker to develop a household 
standard with some assurance of what is to be anticipated in the 
months ahead. But accidental death, injury, sickness or a season 
of slack work enter in to jeopardize this seeming security. A 
livelihood cannot be said to be independent which does not provide 
through insurance and savings for such emergencies; and it falls 
short of competence if it fails to afford some current share of 
pleasure as well as toil, of comfort of mind as well as food and 
shelter. It is within the bounds of practical American idealism 
to hold that such a livelihood should, within a reasonably short 
period of years, be reached and maintained by an industrious man. 

We found, so far as this group of 90 budget familes could 
show us (and at the range of prices current in Homestead in 

182 



THE MILL AND THE HOUSEHOLD 

1907) that only when earnings were more than I15 a week (I2.50 
per day) could we confidently look for any working margin above 
those expenditures which should go for actual necessities. It 
was only in the group earning more than |20 that we found assur- 
ance that the average family had reached a point of surplus where, 
without being unduly spendthrift of the future, they could live 
well. 

Detailed figures for October, 1907, for three representative 
mills in a large steel plant in the district enable us to relate these 
standards to the earnings of the men engaged directly in the opera- 
tions of steel making.* Of the 5 13 men in these departments, 193, 
or something over one-third, were paid the same hourly rate as 
laborers in the yards. Of the 320 men earning more than day 
laborers' pay, 76, or very nearly a fourth, were earning less than 
the I2.50 per day without which we found that the average family 
could not count on a practical margin above actual necessities. 
About another fourth (82) were earning |2o (I3.33 a day) or 
over, the positions ranging from that of a roll engineer, whose 
pay averaged I3.37 per day for the month, to shearmen at I5.58, 
general foremen at I6.05, heaters at I7.21, and rollers at I8.44. 
The pay of these men, some of whom were in supervisory positions, 
averaged that of the most fortunate group of budget families 
studied. 

Thus a full half of the men in these departments earning more 
than common laborer's pay fell in our intermediate group, earn- 
ing weekly from I15 to |20. They included, therefore, the largest 
proportion of the English-speaking workers who, in these depart- 
ments,! had reached positions of some skill. Here the question 
whether normal life could be maintained depends, as we saw in 
our budget studies, on many circumstances — on the size of the 

^ Twenty-three-inch structural mill, 38-inch blooming mill, 128-inch plate 
milL See Appendix IV, p, 315. 

t Earnings in the Bessemer department were not so good. Of the 1 54 men 
above the day labor rank in October, 1907, only five per cent earned |30 or more. 



and 50 per cent earned less than 1 1 5 per week. In the open-hearth department 263 

age (16 [ 
in the three rolling mills cited. Detailed figures were not available as to the earn- 



out of 1610 earned |30 or above — practically the same percentage (10 per cent) as 



ings of the remainder of the open-hearth departments, but the average rate for the 
twelve-hour men in the department (I376), coupled with the specified earnings of 
the more important positions, seemed to indicate that the percentage of them earn- 
ing over |i 5 was less than in the rolling mills. 

183 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

family, on the temperance and steadiness of the man, on the skill 
of the housewife, on freedom from sickness or misfortune. But 
the margin is so narrow that the appearance of a disturbing 
factor may seriously depress the family life. Those homely 
marginal expenditures are at stake which may mean a front room 
with money to heat and furnish it ; washing and sewing machines, 
and outside help to give the housewife some leisure; the doctor 
instead of the midwife; the savings account and the insurance 
policy so that sickness or death, if they come, will not turn sorrow 
into importunate drudgery for the mother of little children. 

Small families may not be unhappily situated in this inter- 
mediate wage belt ; and with lodgers, or with sons working, or with 
the practice of an unusual gift of housekeeping, larger families 
may have some comforts. The more closely, however, that we 
scrutinize the amount available for marginal expenditures, the 
clearer does it appear that the average family whose income falls 
in good times or bad into this intermediate expenditure group, 
must choose between meeting the family's needs for recreation 
its need for providence and its need for that freedom in spending 
for the home and its furnishings which help develop personal life. 

The United States Steel Corporation operates in Homestead 
one of the largest mills in the country, provided with wonder- 
ful machines for producing steel; it has placed in charge a super- 
intendent whose primary object is to produce steel perfectly and 
cheaply; it offers work on certain terms as to wages and hours 
which he who wills may accept. Its ignorant Slavic laborers, how- 
ever, may be exploited by grasping landlords; the wives of many of 
its workers may find life merely a round of wearisome tasks in the 
attempt to make both ends meet; its men may be too worn by 
the stress of the twelve-hour shifts to care for their own individ- 
ual development or too shorn of self-dependence to exert them- 
selves to maintain a borough government that shall give them 
better living conditions. '' Life, work and happiness, — these three 
are bound together." The mill offers the one, subject to no effec- 
tive demand by society nor commercial necessity that the work be 
done under conditions which make the other two possible. 

184 



APPENDICES 



APPENDIX I 

METHODS OF BUDGET STUDY 

FACTS as to wages and labor conditions in the steel district 
were secured in companion investigations of the Pittsburgh 
Survey. To get at their full meaning it was necessary to 
relate them to the household life of the workers; by learning what it 
costs workingmen's families to live and what the general levels of the 
wage scale mean to their wives and children. Such was the first 
purpose of this inquiry. Since in Pittsburgh proper there were 
complicating factors due to the size of the city and its various 
commercial activities, it seemed simpler to undertake it in one 
of the industrial suburbs. The inquiry naturally developed into 
an analysis of mill town life from the household standpoint, an 
intimate study of the everyday problems of the workingmen's 
families. It was not, as early stated in the text, primarily statis- 
tical. Yet to determine and illustrate the economic factors 
entering into family life the budget method of securing data was 
adopted, as employed in standard of living inquiries since Le Play's 
first studies. 

The investigation extended from October, 1907, to April, 
1908. Reference has been made in Qiapter 111 to obstacles which 
the staff had to overcome in the field work and to the methods 
adopted for getting into close touch with the homes studied. 
Through various means friendly relations were established with 
households of different types, the families were visited weekly and 
the co-operation of the women was obtained in keeping accounts. 
The data gathered were transferred to three cards showing: {a) the 
general history and facts as to the family; {b) expenditures for food; 
(c) other expenditures (see pages 1 88- 191). In addition notes were 
kept on any interesting points which cropped out in conversation 
during the visits, and every opportunity was utilized to become 

187 



«o 



1 — r 





u 



J 

i 
< 
t. 



Z 

c 

s 



en 

< 



lU 



"a 



m 

Urn 



1 



e 



(/) 



e 

s 



e 



I 

lU 

I 



e 



8 



«4 






« 






i88 






a, 






•8 

ft. 

i. 

E 

<• 
u 



1 



"Si 
I 



e 

§ 

C4 



I 



e 

1 



«4 



6 

9 

z 
8 






M 






o 

i 

e 
"> 

• 























































































1 

• 

e 

e 

Z 


e 


1 


1 


i 

s 

1 

























>« 














k 
^ 






«> 














«• 






^9 














« 






% 














» 




>» 


c 


















m 




















^ 




















m 






• 














e 




















Z 


1 

a 




• 

Si 

e 

i 


1 








2 

2 




«» 




















6 




















e 
















M 




«« 
















E 




« 
















o 




e 














^ 


g 




2* 


J* 












!!■ 


^ 




S 


"Z 












S 


& 




JC 


9 














13 




^ 


«« 












w 






• 
e 














•1 

3 


e 
z 




z 


E 

2 




1 
1 

-8 
1 






1 

o. 




1 






5 




» 


2 










g 


z 






o 








£ 




JC 




















** 




















w 








































3S 




















8 




















e 

z 


£ 

3 

1 




>> 
1 




e 
6 

1 
s 


1 

1 


!*• 


e' 
E 

I 
1 


I 

9 
1 

(7) 


^s 










ac 




e 






1 


1 




1 




a 


1 


:§ 
ij 








^ 




«a 




9 


•> 


m 






e 










8 


1 


Ti 


s» 




6 






e 
E 




1 




e 


M 

9 
O 




z 


E 




< 


fi^ 


< 


O 


^ 


s 


OD 



s 



c 
"a 
8 
(7) 













• ■ 


• 










u 

< 

00 


• 










< 


• 

o. 










s 

6 


• 











e 
z 



o 

o 
u 
u 

ai 

>* 



o 





* 






8 








(/) 








• 


• 


• 


• 



189 



NAME 








Street 










ARTICLE 


Av. Price 








• 








Bread 


















Bikers Food 


















Beef 


















Pork 


















Ham, 
S'sce. Bacon 










« 








Other Meat 


















FUh 


















Pw 


















arcafs 


















D!d 8*111. etc. 


















PrcshVet 


















Winter " 


















Canned ** 


















Potatou 


















Em 


















Milk 


















Batter 


















Cheese 


















Fresh Fruit 


















Jellies, etc. 


















Pickia, etc. 


















Sutiar 


















Tea 


















Coffee 


















Cocoa 


















Urd 


















Meals away 


















Sundriu 


















ToUl 





































Card B: Food 
190 



NAME 






Street 










FUEL AND LIGHT 
















Coal 
















Wood 
















Gas 
















Oil 
















CLOTHING. Man 
















Woman 
















Boys 
















Girls 
















Materiab for Clothing 




• 












Materials for Washing 
















Service 
















Furniture 
















Kitchen Utcmils 
















Rent 
















Taxes, Fire lns.» Etc. 
















Insurance 
















Dues in Lodges 
















Dues in Unions 
















Education 
















Church 
















Gifts. Charity 
















Recreation 
















Soendint Monev 
















Tobacco 
















Liquor 
















Doctor and (Medicine 
















Dentist 


1 














Money to Old Country 
















Sundries 
















Total 
















. Total Income 

































Card C: Other Expenditures 
191 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

acquainted with the town officials, physicians, business men and 
others who could correct personal impressions. 

It was decided to adopt the account book rather than the 
budget estimate method of securing data. To secure a budget 
estimate, a standard of living investigator goes over with a house- 
keeper her customary items of expenditure, and on the basis of 
these statements, estimates the outlay for the year. The advant- 
age of this method is that with the housekeeper's help an approx- 
imate figure can be secured for disbursements, which are made 
only at intervals and which vary with the seasons, for clothing, 
fuel, house furnishings and other things. When the account 
book method is used, the housekeeper keeps daily records of her 
expenditures for the period studied. These are totalled and re- 
duced to weekly averages. The advantage of this system is that 
so far as the figures go, they are actual, and the element of esti- 
mate is reduced to a minimum. All accounts included in the 
budget analysis in this study covered a period of from four to 
eight weeks; those which showed a five per cent discrepancy be- 
tween income and expenditure were discarded. They thus reg- 
ister accurately all outlays, such as food, rent, and insurance, 
which are made frequently, but give only fragmentary indi- 
cations of the co^t of occasional purchases, such as furniture, 
clothing, medicine, etc. We had neither the time nor the staff to 
carry them over a period long enough to make these items sub- 
stantially representative. Nor did we undertake to extend the 
number of families studied to a total which would satisfy the re- 
quirements of a purely statistical inquiry. 

Bearing in mind these general limitations of our account 
book data, and with a further word or two of explanation as to the 
specific methods employed in gathering and applying them, the 
reader will be able to form an independent judgment as to (i) how 
far the group of families studied was representative of the wage- 
earning population, and (2) to what extent their recorded expen- 
ditures were typical. 

As Homestead is a homogeneous town of wage-earners, our 
first task, namely, that of securing families which in economic 
status, racial make-up and intelligence would be fairly representa- 
tive of the community, was considerably simplified. At the top 

192 



APPENDIX I 

of the economic scale is no large high-income group to consider, 
and at the bottom 60 per cent of the entire working force in the 
mill are unskilled laborers, getting a common rate per hour. 
Since, moreover, a majority of the town's people work for the one 
employer, a recent census of the mill gave us remarkably complete 
statistical information as to the skill and racial make-up of this 
working population. This was supplemented by data as to wages 
in the steel mills of the district secured in the course of a com- 
panion investigation for the Pittsburgh Survey. Perhaps no other 
inquiry of a similar nature has had such inclusive economic and 
social facts as a local background. Moreover, as the women of 
Homestead do not go out to labor and as (with the exception of the 
hard times of 1907 and 1908) work in the mills has been steady, we 
scarcely encountered two complicating factors which often disturb 
such budget studies, namely, supplemental incomes and seasonal 
non-employment. With the exception of the income from lodgers 
in the low wage groups, the man's weekly earnings form the basis 
of household life, and by what those earnings afford can the in- 
dustrial life of the community be judged. 

To indicate the gradations from the great underlying mass 
of day labor to the comparatively small group of highly skilled 
men, the following classification was adopted: 

1. Those receiving less than |i2 a week; that is, the un- 
skilled common laborers at 16^ cents an hour, as exemplified in 
the 1 1. 65 per day for ten hours in the yards or 1 1.98 per day for 
twelve hours in the operating departments. 

2. Those receiving from |i2 to 1 14.99 P^^ week. 

3. Those receiving from I15 to 1 19.99 per week. 

These intermediate groups include, roughly, men paid I2.25 
to I3.00 per day on time wages and the less skilled men who are 
paid by the ton. 

4. Those receiving f 20 per week and over. The distinctly 
skilled men, practically all tonnage workers, together with the 
men above the lowest rounds on the clerical force. 

In addition, a few families in each wage group whose bread- 
winners were not employed in the mill were added to the number 
studied in order to reflect more accurately the make-up of the 
community. 

13 193 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

It should be borne in mind that the facts presented in Chap- 
ter III, Table 5, etc., as to the skill, nationalities, and range of 
pay of the mill force refer to normal times. So also does Table 6, 
in which the 90 budget families are classified by their regular 
income. As tonnage earnings vary from week to week, these latter 
averages are based on statements made by the families themselves 
as to the men's usual pay and their income from other sources. 
They are believed to be fairly accurate except possibly in the 
case of three colored women who went out to work by the day 
and apparently gave their maximum rather than their average 
earnings. According to this table the 90 budget families when 
classified by normal earnings were about equally divided among 
the four groups representing the general wage levels in the mill. 
While the "under I12" group of budget families was numerically 
no larger than the other three, it of course represented over half 
the working population. Among the budget families, as in the 
mill, the Slavs predominated in this lowest group. 

To represent, racially, the town's population, it was necessary 
to include families from three groups: the native bom, the old 
time English-speaking immigrant of a generation ago, and the 
newcomers of the past decade — the Slavs. A group of colored 
people was included also, not because numerically important, but 
for purposes of comparison. It will be noted that for each 
racial group the percentage of unskilled workers among the budget 
families is decidedly smaller than in the mill census.* The generali- 
zations with respect to each nationality, therefore, were drawn from 
families above the average in skill and wages, so that the picture 
is less dark if anything than the reality. In such a study as the 
present one, in which the conclusions have been critical of the 
returns paid to labor, this was a bias on the safe side. 

A third requisite was to secure families which in intelligence 
were representative of the community studied. Here we met a 
difficulty common to all standard of living inquiries; that as 
the more intelligent women who can keep accounts or make ac- 
curate estimates are usually the more skilful housekeepers, their 
figures are not thoroughly representative. To overcome this, we 
kept accounts for families who could not do it for themselves. 

Table i, page 200; also Appendix III. 

194 



APPENDIX I 

visiting them daily or every other day for that purpose. Among 
these were some where the women could neither read nor write. 
As already noted, the Slavic families included some newly arrived 
immigrants and were visited by a woman speaking their languages. 

On these points then, of economic status, racial make-up, 
and intelligence, a comparison of the 90 budget families with the 
census of the mill force shows that, taken as a whole, there were 
among the former proportionately fewer earning low wages, fewer 
Slavs and fewer unskilled. We did not attempt, however, to 
present in the 90 families a miniature of the town's population. 
Our endeavor was to make sure that the number studied included 
small sample groups, each of which would represent an impor- 
tant element in that population. In this we were reasonably 
successful. 

The numbers in the different groups were not sufficiently 
large to make satisfactory cross classifications including size of 
family as well as race and economic status. For this reason, the 
conclusions, with few exceptions, have been drawn from the 
primary classifications. The occurrence of the hard times, to be 
discussed later, dislodged a number of budget families from 
their normal economic groups; but the shifting was not so great 
as altogether to negative the care taken to see that initially 
they were representative of the different elements in the social 
make-up. The tables at the close of this appendix and in Ap- 
pendix 1 1 give further indications as to size, occupation, etc., of 
the families studied. 

Turning to our second query — how far the actual expendi- 
tures of the families studied were in themselves representative — 
we must consider several difficulties that were encountered in the 
course of the work. These, together with the methods employed 
in overcoming them so far as practicable, should be made clear. 
The various items of the budget, — rent, food, occasional expendi- 
tures, — may be taken up in order. 

Under the first heading, that of rent, it is to be noted that 
13 of the 90 families whose expenditures were analyzed owned 
their homes free of mortgage — a proportion which fairly repre- 
sented the possibilities in this direction which the town's life 

195 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

holds but a number too small to warrant special averages. This 
complication is inevitable in any study of mill-town expenditures, 
though usually absent in tenement studies in a city. While 
such families do not pay rent they have to reckon on the cost 
of taxes and repairs. No attempt has been made to estimate 
just what these amounts would be annually for the families 
studied. The impression gained was that as a whole such families 
spent for these items less than the equivalent of rent and therefore 
had more margin for other items than would house-renting fam- 
ilies in the same expenditure groups. 

To overcome this element of variation the principal tables in 
the chapter on rent were based on the actual rentals of the house- 
renting families; and in the chapter on food the test of sufficiency 
(22 cents per man per day) arrived at by Professor Underbill was 
accepted as a minimum. Therefore, for these two most important 
items, we were able to secure units unaffected by this element of 
house ownership, to use in the final recapitulations as to what a 
family could get for a given weekly expenditure. With respect 
to the balance available for the remaining items in the budgets, 
the effect of the inclusion of the 13 house-owners in our general 
schedules is not altogether clear. Yet a comparison of the average 
expenditures of the 90 budget families as a whole (Table 9, 
page 45), with 77 house renters, classified separately (Table 10), 
seems to show that their inclusion did not materially alter this 
remainder. This is illustrated by the following figures for the 
families spending less than I15 per week for all needs: 





Reta 


Food 


Total for rent and food 


All families (48) 


. ..I2.01 


U'73 


I674 


House renters (43).. 


. .. 3.25 


4A5 


6.70 



It was only among those who spent I15 per week or over 
that the averages for all families (as against the house renters sepa- 
rately) showed an increased outlay for such items as church, educa- 
tion and recreation. The differences even here were very slight. 

With respect to the next major item in the budget, food 
we did not attempt to include in the inquiry any dietetic research 
as to the food values of provisions used by the families. Such 
elementary calculations as to food values as could be made from 

196 



APPENDIX I 

the accounts, indicated that it was reasonable to apply the per 
diem standard determined by Professor Underbill in his New 
York estimates the same year, which were based on a careful 
weighing and chemical analysis of materials and waste. The 
point is more fully explained in the text, page 70. 

With the exception of insurance, no satisfactory data were 
obtained from the account books as to occasional expenditures, 
as furniture, clothing, expenses of sickness, etc. Such items are 
at best an unsatisfactory basis of computation unless accounts are 
kept for the full year. Rather than attempt estimates on the 
basis of such data as was secured, we made use of conclusions 
reached in Professor Chapin's exhaustive analysis of the budget 
estimates of 500 New York families in 1907. 

The whole range of expenditures of many families was affected 
by the industrial depression of 1907 and 1908. As stated in the text, 
within six weeks after the budget work was started the trouble 
began and, by the middle of December, the mills were running 
only about half time, a situation which lasted during the remainder 
of the investigation. To make up for reduced incomes, rents 
were allowed to run in arrears, stores gave credit freely to their 
old customers and money was drawn from the bank. The budget 
Slavs, for instance, averaged I3.28 per week for credit, one-quarter 
of their total expenditure of 1 13.07. 

As the depression was regarded as temporary, families did 
not reduce purchases during this period of waiting as much as 
would have been anticipated. The items probably farthest from 
normal were those for clothing and furniture, since these expendi- 
tures could easily be postponed. Nevertheless, as few families 
were receiving full wages, the household accounts fell below what 
was customary. The elements of uncertainty were sufficient to 
render out of the question any close statistical deductions as to 
actual expenditures in prosperous times by families classified by 
their normal wage groups; as to what proportion of their normal 
incomes these families would spend for the different budget items; 
or as to the uses of any surplus which the more prosperous families 
might be accustomed to. Much larger groups of families, studied for 
longer and more representative periods, would have been essential. 

197 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

It looked for a while as if the accounts being kept by 
our housewives must lose their value also for the simpler compara- 
tive uses we had planned to put them to. As time went on this 
did not prove to be the case. We were seeking light on what ele- 
mentary household standards are possible on an income, say, of 
|i2 a week in Homestead. If the period covered by the investi- 
gation had been a normal one, we could have put opposite each 
other a family's average earnings and what the money went for as 
shown by its account book, computed averages, and drawn simple 
and direct deductions as to the relation between wages and costs 
of living for each group. Instead, in analyzing the data from the 
account books, we divided the families, not according to normal 
wages, but according to the amounts they actually spent per 
week during the period studied, including what was purchased 
on credit from landlord, grocer and butcher, and what was 
drawn from the bank. Rents and the prices of food stuffs 
did not change appreciably during this period. With these 
constant, |i2 per week would in general buy the same, whether 
the payments were met out of the lowered earnings of a family 
during a period of slack times, or out of the total wages of a low- 
paid man when the mills were running full. For instance, take 
the household of a semi-skilled man receiving say I2.50 a day, but 
working only part time and averaging 1 11.50 instead of I15 per 
week for the period studied. If this family lived on his |i 1.50 and 
paid their bills, the family was entered in the "under |i2" per 
week expenditure group. If they drew money from the bank or 
secured credit at the store for f 2.00 besides, they were entered in 
the "|i2 to 1 14.99" class. 

So far as total weekly expenditures go, it is to be noted that 
only in the "under I12" and "over I20" groups would the result- 
ing averages probably be appreciably affected by hard times. The 
latter group is outside the debatable ground: the average expendi- 
ture by the former was, it turned out, not far from the customary 
wages of common labor, with which it was compared. The dis- 
cussion hinged on the important intermediate groups. The per- 
sonnel of such an intermediate group, of course, changes, but as 
a statistical category it remains constant. Half-time employment 
would throw certain families into the "|i2 to 1 14.99" S^'^^p from 

198 



APPENDIX I 

above, and others would drop out below; but the average total 
expenditure would remain fairly stable. 

An element of discrepancy, however, enters into the dis- 
cussion of items making up this average total. For instance, in 
the case of the |i 5 man cited above his fixed expenditures, such as 
rent, would go on. They would probably be higher than those of a 
man with an income ordinarily under |i2, and the balance free for 
other expenditures would be less. As affecting this discrepancy, 
it should be pointed out that these semi-skilled householders often 
brought a higher grade of managing ability to the purchase and 
handling of food and other household necessities than would 
ordinarily be true of the average laborer's family, and also that 
they would buy, in such a period of depression, only the essentials. 
With prices normal, the food or other necessities purchased under 
such circumstances for a dollar were probably as much as could 
ever be bought in Homestead for such a sum. 

Thus by classifying the actual household expenditures into 
groups corresponding to the range of wages paid in the mills, light 
was thrown on what an average family at each wage level might 
reasonably secure from its weekly earnings in ordinary times. 
The 90 budgets, therefore, afforded a body of specific indications 
correcting and strengthening the general impressions received, as 
to how far earnings current in Homestead would go (a) for an un- 
skilled immigrant who seeks a foothold in this country through a 
job as common laborer, or (b) for the American who looks to his 
work as a permanent basis for livelihood. 

The following tables relating to the budget study supplement 
those given in the text. 



199 



CIJ 

O 

< 

•J 
< 

O 

z 

o 

z 
< 

z 
o 

mm 

H 
< 

a. 

3 
U 



a. 

§ 

O 

•J 
< 

< 

>• 

09 



i 

< 

H 
U3 



3 
09 

8^ 

O 
(/> 

(A 

•J 



tt] 

•J 

OS 

< 





X 

u 

< 

• 

o 
Z 

• 

u 

a 

o 

z 
o 

p 

< 

A. 


2 




a -«*^« 


tr\ . ^fSO »'^ 


f1 


n aoo ^ 






Other Oc- 
cupation 


• • « 

• • • 


• • • 


— . . — « 


fr\ 





* »• i 




m 

1 


• • • • 

• • • • 


• • • • « 

• • • • • 


. . . t^ 


f1 


• as* 

• • • • 


i 

: « : 




1 


• • • • 

• • « • 


• • • • • 

• • « ■ • 


• • • 


« 


• • a • 

• • • • 


t 

I 




Building 
trades 


• • • • 

• • • « 


• • • • • 

• • » • • 


• • a • 

■ • • • 


- 


• • "^ a 


^ «rk • 






fl • • • 
• • • • 


• • • • 

• • • • 


• • • a 

• • • • 


• 
• 




>0 tv 

1 

1 
1 


z 


1 


a • • B 
• • « • 


* • • • B 


• a a • • 

■ • « a a 




m it\ 


< 
O 


Occupation in Mill. 
No. IN Each 


1 


^^ • • • 
■« » • • 


^^ mm mm 


a ■ • 


« 


• • • • 
a • a * 


1 

1 

n 




II 


f1 fl f* • 

• 


^0 . rt n - 

• 


i#\ a n n irs 

• 


0^ 


m • a 


CI 




Tonnage 
nun* 


• • 


rr\ . ^ m, mm 

• 


rr\ a a •• ^ 

• a 


i#\ 


• • • rf\ 

• • • 


rr\ "^ 




1 
s 


• • « • 

• • • • 


• « • « 

• • • • 


• a 
a • 


fl 


• • a a 

• a • « 


: «^ 




( 


r 










Under f 12.00 
fi2.oo-f 14.99 

f15.oo-f19.9Q 
f 20.00 and over . 

Total . 

[ Under f 12.00 

fi2.oo-f 14.99 

f15.oo-f19.9Q 
f 20.00 and over . 

Total . 

Under f 12.00 

f12.oo-f14.9Q 
f15.oo-f19.9Q 
f 20.00 and over . 

Total . 


Under f 12.00 

fi2.oo-f 14.99 
f15.oo-f19.QQ 
f 20.00 and over , 

Total . 

Total all races . 




AeiS 


•jng 'ds *i 


Ju3 3JRM'l^ 


?N 


pajoio^ 


) 



Q 

be 

c 






fa 
n 

o 

c 

V 






t3 
J3 

o 

E 
o 



•c 

> 

« 
c 

c 

9 
O 

E 

<« 



o 

(8 
C 
C 

o 



200 



APPENDIX I 

TABLE 2. — ^AVERAGE NORMAL WEEKLY INCOME AND INCOME FROM 
SPECIFIED SOURCES, OF 90 BUDGET FAMILIES. — BY RACIAL 
GROUP 



Racial Group 


Number 

of 
family 


Average 

weekly 

income 


Income from 


Man 


Sons 


H^ife 


Lodgers 


Bank 


Slav . . . . 
Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Nat. White 
Col 


29 

«3 
25 
33 


I13.88 
20.53 
22.93 
17.92 


1 1 2.08 
16.41 

18.95 
13.27 


3.85 

3.30 
1.30 


».34 

• ■ 

.24 
2.15 


».94 

.37 

.34 
1.20 


• • 

»I*.20* 

■ • 



* This family had recently sold a store and were regularly drawing money 
from bank. 

TABLE 3. — 90 BUDGET FAMILIES. — BY NUMBER OF FAMILIES HAVING 
INCOME FROM GIVEN SOURCES IN NORMAL TIMES AND BY 
RACIAL GROUP 



Racial Croup 


Number 

of 
Families 


Families with Income from 


Man only 


IVoman 


Sons 


Lodgers 


Slav .... 
Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Nat. White . . . 
Colored. 


39 
J3 
35 
33 


14 
14 


I 

• • 

2 
6 


6 

4 

5 

2 


9 

1 

3 
5 


Total . 


90 


53 


9 


'7 


18 



TABLE 4. — AVERAGE SIZE OF FAMILIES, AND OF FAMILIES INCLUD- 
ING LODGERS. — BY EXPENDITURE AND NATIONALITY GROUPS 





Under |i2 


1 1 2.00 TO 

»i4.99 


1 1 5.00 TO 
I19.99 


$20 AND 

Over 


Total 


NaHonality. 


Not 

Including 

Lodgers 


5^? 

3-9 
7.0 
4.0 

33 
39 


Number 

in 
Families 


7.3 

73 
70 
47 

6.3 


Number 

in 
Families 


7.» 

50 

4.5 
4.0 

5-3 


Number 

in 
Families 


47 
77 
5-3 
4.0 

5-4 


Number 

in 
Families 


•■a A 

^2 


Slav . 

Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Nat. White . 
Colored . 


37 
70 
4.0 

3.5 


43 

7.3 
7.0 
43 


44 
5.0 

4.4 
4.0 


47 

7-1 
4.8 

4.0 


ti 
4.6 

3-4 


1:^ 
4.8 
3.8 


Total average 


37 


5.3 


4-4 


5-3 


4-4 


0-5 



201 



HOHESnrEAD: the HOeSEHOlDS OF A MILL TQfWN 



TABLE 5. 



mCDCET FAWn IPS MUlUE&flFPEKSONS PERtOCMI. 



lU 



JStfOitf Ctmrnp TtUl E 



Om Pi 



TwmPi 



Thntm Mere 



Slav.. . . 
Sat %lmt 
EijS. Sp. Et. . 
Colored 


39 
33 


6 

7 
"7 


9 
4 


«4 

1 

a 



Toc^. . 


90 


50 


23 


"7 



TABLE 6. — NUMBER OF HOUSE-OWNING AND HOUSE-RENTING 
FAMILIES HAVING WATER IN HOUSE, AND NUMBER HAVING TWO 
OR MORE PERSONS PER ROOM. — BY EXPENDITURE GROUP 



re Totals 
Group of 



Under fiaxm . 
fiaxio-f 14.99 . 
115x10-119.99 . 
f ao.00 and over 



Total. 



16 

23 
19 



90 



Number or Famiues Having 



W^oUr in Homse Two or More Persom per Ri 



la 
5 



47 



16 
10 

9 
5 



TABLE 7. — 90 BUDGET FAMILIES OCCUPYING TENEMENTS OF SPECI- 
FIED NUMBER OF ROOMS. — BY RACIAL GROUP 





ToUd 

FOM' 

ities 


One : Two ' Three 
Room Rooms | Rooms 

' 1 


Four 
Rooms 


Five 
Rooms 


Six 
Rooms 


Racial Croup 


Number 

of 
Famities 


Number 

of 
Families 


Number 

of 
Famities 


Number 
Fawultss 


Number 

of 
Famities 


Nuwiber 

of 
Famities 


Slav. 

Eng. Sp. Eur. . 
Nat. White. . 
Colored. . 


29 

»3 

23 


5 

• • 

• • 


»5 

• • 

• • 

6 


5 
3 

I 


4 
5 

1 


• • 

2 

7 

2 


« • 

3 
10 

1 



202 



APPENDIX I 

TABLE 8. — 90 BUDGET FAMILIES OCCUPYING SPECIFIED NUMBER OF 

ROOMS. — BY EXPENDITURE GROUP 



Expenditure Group 


Toial 

Famr 

Hies 


One 
Room 


Tvoo 
Rooms 


Three 
Rooms 


Four 
Rooms 


Five 
Rooms 


Six 
or more 


Under |i2. 00 
Ji2.o(>-*i4.9<) . . 

$i5.0(>-*i9.99 . 
I20.00 and over . 


19 


5 

• • 

• ■ 

• • 


10 

2 


3 

4 
7 
3 


II 
6 

3 

2 


I 
I 

5 

4 


2 
2 
2 
8 


Total . 


90 


5 


21 


17 


22 


II 


14 



TABLE 9. — COST OF CERTAIN ARTICLES OF FOOD IN NINE CITIES 
AND RATIO OF THE COST OF THESE ARTICLES IN OTHER CITIES 
TO THE COST IN PITTSBURGH. — BY CENTS PER POUND* 





^ 






•*e 






«<t 


1 


•« 


'^'-a 


ylrtide 


.10 


1 
5 


1 




1 Q 


•-4 


sbing 
ion 


1 


II 




.10 


.08 


.op 


.09 


IS v3 
CO 

.07! 


.11 


.10 


.10 




Beans .... 


2 


Chuck Roast . 


•«3 


.11 


.06 


.12 


.12 


.10 


.13 


.12} 


.12} 


2 


Salt Beef. 


.10 


.08 


.06 


.08 


.11 


.07 


.07 


.08 


.10 


2 


Bread (lb.) . . . 


•05 


.05 


.05 


•o§ 


•05 


.05 


•05 


.05 


.05 


• • 


Butter .... 


•3i 


•^J 


•25 


.26 


•5j 


•27 


•^? 


•32 


•31 


2 


Cheese .... 


.18 


.16 


•««> 


.19 


.16 


•»5 


.16 


.20 


•»7 


3 


Com meal 


.02J 


.03 


.02} 


.04 


.02) 


•03J 


.02} 


.02 


.02} 


4 


Lard 


.10 


.11 


.11 


.12 


.11 


.12} 


.12 


.13 


•«3 


1 


Molasses (gal.) 


•55 


•55 


.60 


•55 


.50 


.60 


.40 


.60 


.6b 


1 


Mutton (leg) . 


.13J 


.12 


.11 


.11 


•«3 


.11 


.o8i 


■13 


•13 


2 


Fresh Pork (chops) 


•»3 


•14 


.11 


:;i 


•»3 


.12} 


•»3 


.14} 


::g* 


2 


Bacon .... 


:il 


•»7 


.16 


2 


.20 


•»7 


•»7 


2 


Prunes .... 


.oB 


.07 


.10 


2 


.06 


.10 


.10 


I 


Rice 


.08 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.08 


.10 


.09 


.09i 


I 


Veal Cutlet . 


.21 
2.33 


.28 
2.32 


.16 
2.o8i 


•25 

2.40 


.22 
2.26} 


•17 
2.21 


•>5 
2.03 


.»9 
3-45 


.23J 
2.49J 


3 


Total 


I 


Ratio 


93 


93 


83 


96 


91 


89 


81 


98 


100 


1 



*From U. S. Bureau of Labor Report, July, 1907, pp. 175-328. 

203 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

table lo. — ^total average weekly expenditures of house- 
renting families expending less than |l2 a week, and 
proportions spent for food and rent. — by racial group 





T5 
>3 

2 

2 

U 

28 


Average Total 
Expenditute 


Food 


Rent 


Total 


Racial Group 




ft, 

48.7 

43-3 
36.0 

42.0 


"8 


ft, 

18.5 

3>-9 
39.2 
24.7 


1 


1 

ft. 


Slav 

Eng. Sp. Eur.. 

Nat. White. . . . 

Colored .... 


I8.85 

10.^0 

Q.82 

8.98 


*4.3i 
4.46 

315 
3.22 


»i.64 
3-28 

3.85 
2.22 


I5.95 
7.84 
7.00 

5-44 


67.2 

75-2 

60.7 


Total average 


»9.o8 


»3.8i 


J2.15 


237 


»5.96 


65.7 



TABLE II. — AVERAGE EXPENDITURE FOR FOOD PER MAN PER DAY. 
— BY SIZE OF FAMILY AND EXPENDITURE GROUP 





Under 


1 1 2.00 


1 1 2.00 TO 

*i4.99 


llJ.OO TO 

*i9-99 


I2O.OO AND 

Over 


Number 


















in 


Num- 


Average 


Num- 


Average 


Num- 


Average 


Nunin 


Average 


Family 


ber of 


Ex- 


ber of 


Ex- 


ber of 


Ex- 


berof 


Ex- 




Fam" 


pendi' 


Fam- 


pendi- 


Fam- 


pendi- 


Fam- 


pendi- 




Hies 


iure 


ilies 


ture 


ilies 


ture 


ilies 


ture 


I 
2 


• • 

10 


• • 

».27 


• • 

• • 


• • 

m m 


• • 

3 


m « 

».39 


m • 

3 


».52 


3 


10 


.22 


5 


» .27 


7 


•45 


2 


.70 


4 


5 


.22 


3 


•33 


3 


.35 


4 


.33 


5 


I 


.19 


3 


.27 


3 


.21 


4 


.3» 


6 


3 


.19 


3 


.24 


3 


.29 


I 


.27 


I 


I 


.22 


I 


.»9 


1 


.35 


2 


.27 


I 


.13 


I 


•»5 


3 


.22 


• • 


• • 


9 


1 


.21 


I 


.10 


• . 


• • 


3 


•39 



204 



APPENDIX 

TABLES GIVING GENERAL DESCRIPTION AND AVERAGE 

BUDGET 
SLAVS 



a 
3 

4 
5 
6 

7 
8 



lO 
IX 

xa 
13 



5^ 



Under 
$xa 



15 
i6 

17 
z8 

19 

ao 
az 
aa 

33 
34 
25 

a6^ 



$12 

TO 
•U09 



•i5 

TO 

$19.09 



37 "I 

a8 
29 



$ao 

AND 
OVZR 



1 


ll 

aS 
16 


Slovak 


u 


4 


II 
11 
<l 


i 

a 


II 
II 


1 


II 


6 


11 


8 


II 


14 


II 
II 


x6 
3 


II 


7 


II 


la 


II 


X4 


Hung. 


10 


Slovak 


10 


11 


Z5 


(1 


Z9 


II 


7 


II 


z8 


11 


6 


II 


3 


11 


X7 


II 


6 


Hung. 


7 


Slovak 
Hung. 


a 
6 



Laborer 
11 



M 

II 
II 

II 

II 
II 

Day man* 

Laborer 

Day man 

Laborer 
II 

Dayman 



Laborer 
II 

Tonnage 

Laborer 
11 



Tonnage 
Dayman 



II 



Laborer 
Dayman 

Laborer 



Tonnage 

Laborer 
II 



•^1 

51 



7 

a 



a 

3 

a 

3 

4 



a 

5 

6 
3 



6 

4 

3 

4 
4 

5 

4 
4 

a 

9 
6 



i 



II 



a 
a 



o 
o 
o 

o 
o 



i 



o 

o 

a 
o 



4 
o 

o 
8 
3 

8 

a 
o 
a 
a 
o 



o 
o 



4 
3 



I 

I 
a 

x 
a 



a 

a 

a 
I 



4 
a 

a 

4 

a 

3 

a 

3 

a 

a 
4 



a 
a 



I 



tq 



No 

II 



Yea 

No 

Yes 

Yes 

11 

No 



II 
II 

Yes 
No 



II 



II 



Yes 

No 

Yes 

No 
Yes 

No 

i< 

Yes 
No 

Yes 
No 



Are buying home. Son, ai, also m laboRr. 

Ndther can read nor write even in Sknc 
Niece and one other lodger. 

Young couj^. married hoe. Home vtfi fur- 
nished. Have made proapenfos start. 

Young couple. 

Son, X4, at work. Own property in old cosatrr 

Man already arrested for intempenmoe aad 
abusing wiie. 

Woman uaiL Several children have died. 

Two little chfldren. Have money in batik. 
Only working part time. 

Young couple, married here; two little chil- 
dren. Are furnishing home on instaloai 
plan. 

Poorly furnished home. A child is in old coaa- 
try with relatives. 

Lidined to drink. Poorly fumiabed. unattrac- 
tive home. 

Litemperate man. at one time insane. 

Young couple. Man earns usually about |i.;; 
a day. One room with but little fumitsre. 

Came to United States when 14. Now an cs- 
gineer in mill. Married 6 months ago to gel 
of 17. 



Nephew lives with them. Woman eihanstec 

by hard work. 
Man says his health has been affected by ni 

work; he must drink to stand it. Hosk 

fairly comfortable but smalL 
Have money in bank and property in old coai- 

try. Only one little chila. 
Woman bom here. Man intemperate. Haw 

poorly furntthed. Woman fairnr capable. 
Man of 50, Have to take boanfen to mua^e 

on his wages. 

Family came recently. Have property in oU 

country and also have mon^ in bank. 
Earns $a to $3 a day. Says "has two boankn 

to help earn a living." 
Naturaiiaed. Own home. Repiesentatm 

older residents. 
Young couple. Man only a a but semi-skilled 

Are saving for a home. 
Home poor, health not good. Take lodgeis to 

help madequate income. 
Man formerly miner. Now earns $3.50 a dar 

in mm. Has rheumatism. One chfld feebk- 

minded. 
Man iinured in mill, out of worii 10 moDtks. 

$150 from company and income from lodscxs 

supports family. 

Thrifty Protestant family. Home simple, bot 

attractive. 
Married m Hungary. Man came over first. 
Son also laborer. Has savings; drew on them 

for extra expenses at death of child recently. 



206 



II 

WEEKLY EXPENDITURE OF EACH OF THE NINETY 
FAMILIES 

SLAVS 



^e 



.5 ^ 



8 

6 



4 
7 
4 

4 

4 



4 

7 

5 
7 



6 
7 


8 
8 

5 

7 
9 
7 
8 

4 






$io.6o 
11.43 

xx.go 

6.oa 
6.86 
8.48 

525 
X0.46 

9.48 



9.8$ 
7.36 

8.95 
9-74 

9.36 



Z3.86 
13.68 

13.74 
13.58 
ia.24 

17.68 
19.46 

19. 93* 
15.71 
15.85 
17.00 

17.46 



•-3 

"I 



$5.80 

.50 
3.55 

3.87 

9.48 

4^1 

.75 

4-75 



ao.34 

ao.29 
94.10 



75 



75 
57 



3.10 
X.00 



3.75 



lU 



If 



$a.37 



.75 



5.60 



13.71 



IOjOO 

6.66 



1^1 



$10.58 

I1-47 
11.86 

6.03 
6.87 
8.49 

5.93 
10.46 

9-48 



9-93 

7.30 

8.93 
9.70 

9.35 



13.87 
13.6S 

13.73 
13.60 

13.34 

17.67 
19.61 
19.95 
15.68 
15.65 
16.36 

17-45 

30.34 

ao.3i 
94.11 



AVESAGE WXEXLT EZTKMDITUIUE TOR 



I 






$6.60 
5.35 

4.90 

3.80 
3.30 

3.40 
S.89 

4.81 



3.66 
4.35 

4.35 
3.87 

3.86 



6.96 
5.81 

3.79 
5.84 
7.57 

7.17 

11.06 

8.36 

7.9* 
7.56 
6.61 

10.77 

7.19 
6.80 

7.38 



« 

•a.75 

3.35 

1.00 
1.14 
3.00 

1.13 
3.00 

1.69 



1.87 
Z.89 
3.00 

.86 
.86 



3.50 

3.39 

9.50 
9.00 
1.75 

3.50 

3.38 

« 

3.86 
1.75 
3.75 

3.50 

3.37 

1.50 
4.00 



I 



$ .03 

.38 $1.46 



.03 



.39 
.06 

.06 

.04 

.53 



.05 

.05 

.49 
•59 

.66 



•57 

1.15 
.89 



3.44 



.79 
3.03 

•54 

1.37 



1.96 

.33 

1.31 
3.74 

1.50 



3.31 
3.08 

.78 
1.95 



i 



1.17 


.35 


.83 


3.13 


.54 


3.36 


1.40 


1.91 


.78 


1.85 


.30 


1.75 


• • 


1.97 


.10 


1.39 


.05 


5.90 


.13 
.04 


.70 
3-43 



^(3 



.07 



$ .09 
.97 

.10 

.18 
.05 
.09 

.10 
.06 

.96 



.06 

.14 

.09 
.10 

.36 



5 



.33 



.19 



^8 



•33 
.90 

.13 
.13 
.33 



$3.00 

.79 

1.00 



•43 



•40 
Z.18 

•45 
.35 

•38 
.74 

.74 



$ ^39 



1.33 
.03 
.93 

.4a 

.04 

•36 

1.06 

•34 
.97 



.25 
175 

•98 

■ • 

.63 

•49 

.65 

X.15 

1.47 

9.19 

.50 
6.97 



$.25 
1.00 



.06 

.03 

.03 
.09 

•09 



.10 
•15 



.09 
.05 
.08 
.09 
.01 
.05 



.10 
.05 



.14 



tq 



.80 
1.00 

•41 
.33 

.16 
•57 

1.98 



.54 



.78 
.8a 



•90 
1.49 
1.35 
1^47 

.91 

3.19 

.63 



.19 



.99 



• 71 



.56 



.04 
65 

I t 

04 
50 



•43 



IJOO 



•i 



$1.54 
.39 

.15 

.09 



.08 

1.41 
•09 

.19 
•14 

.38 



I 

3 



I 

9 

zo 
11 

13 

13 

14 



• • 


ri5 


.39 


16 


3^95 


17 


•39 


18 


.53 


^19 



1.65 
.64 

6.34 

• • 

1.88 
•07 



, 30 
31 
99 
23 
24 
25 



.30 I- 26 



1.56 

10.10 
.20 



97 

98 
39 



^ Including credit. 

3 Avenge amount porchaaed on cxedit. 

* Paid per day instead of per ton. 

* Famiues owned home. 



207 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



ENGLISH SPEAK- 






•a 



30 



33 

34 



36 



37 
38 
30 



Undib 
$xa 



$ia 

TO 
$1400 



40 
41 

4a 



1 



•15 

TO 

tiooo 



Sao 

AND 
OVER 



1 


i 

14 


Irish 


Scotch 


35 


German 


30 


Rnflifth 


as 


Irish 
Knglish 


35 

12 


«• 


ao 


Scotch 


a7 


English 


13 


Irish 
Scotch 


a3 


<i 





• 


N umber 0/ Per- 
sons in Family 


^1 




4 


Water in 
House 


Dayman 


6 


No 










6 


<i 




6 





4 


Yes 


Dayman 


i 


■ 




4 
4 


No 
Yes 


Conductor 
Laborer 


5 

II 






6 

4 


M 


Tonnage 


3 





4 


No 


Office 


4 





3 


Yes 


Day man 


8 





3 


No 


Laborer 
Teamster 


II 

7 






8 
S 


Yes 

It 




S 





S 


<t 






Rather shiftless family, always buy oa cnk. 

No insurance. 
T«ro boys at work. Have good iDOome a od- 

nary tunes. Own house, nee. 
Relatives giving food during 



Three young children. Own home. 
Man KKmeny ^ass blower. Irxenlailjr 

pAoyed in miH Church gave a ottk c 

anoe. 
One giri at home, two childreii in sdboeL 
Son at work, purs $5.00 a week boaid 

working. Thrifty family. 



Once a miner. Earns $2.50 Co %yoo a ik?. 

Owns home, free. 
Prosperous home, musical family. Bx9t sr 

ings. 
Six children under 14. 



Two grown sons at work. 

Thrifty famfly. Home well furnished. 3 s» 

at work. Own property in anothrr ton. 
Man earns over 925 a week. Giri over 14 c 

home and boy in schooL Have savini>. A:* 

tractive home. 



208 



APPENDIX 11 



ING EUROPEANS 



1^ 
41 



4 
S 

4 



7 
5 



4 
4 



7 
6 



4 
4 

13 



lis 



fzo.a9 
zo.6o 
1030 

Z4-98 
I3^a 



14.68 
Z3.8a 



13.96 
18.63 
XS.04 



99-34 
33.14 

ao.xz 






I3.97 
5.00 
Z.50 

3.25 



1.33 
4.73 



5.53 



! 



m 



hi 



$2X4 



$ZO.X9 
XO.9O 
XO.48 

X4.a8 
13.93 

X4.69 
X4.IX 

ZS.93 
18.64 
Z5.oa 



29.35 
33.16 

X9.9X 



AVKSAOB WXKXLY EXPEMDXTUSX FOB 



2 



•5.98 
3.86 
9.94 



6.49 
5.06 



9.27 
4.7a 



6.80 
S.19 
5.53 



30.Z5 

8.59 
8.60 



1 


1 


I3.00 


• • 


* 


$1.05 


3-75 


• • 


a.35 
a.50 


.80 


* 
a.7S 


't 


* 


t • 


5.00 


.83 


a.50 


• • 


6.00 


• • 

.87 


a.S4 


.oa 



$.xa 
.34 

.37 



.09 
S.04 



3.29 
.50 



8.85 
X.00 

3.Z2 



.zo 
9.06 

2.24 



1 .27 



.87 
.56 



.20 

.29 

.76 



l<a 



f .ax 

.ao 

.06 

• • 



.37 
.06 



.39 

a.65 

.07 



.58 

.38 
.37 



1 .46 



3.53 



•39 
.30 



3 



3.8o 



.53 
X.73 



.13 
X.47 

3.03 



I ax 

.ax 

.IS 

• ■ 

J02 



$ .20 
.20 



.38 



.02 

.XX 



.50 



tq 



19 



.52 

.33 



.39 



} 



.04 
.59 



4.07 
.77 



zi6 

3.05 
.79 



,70 
6.58 

a.o6 



30 
31 

139 



33 
34 



1 36 

37 
38 

139 



40 
4X 

\4» 



^Including credit. 

'tAvcn^ amount purchased on credit. 

* Familiei owned home. 



U 



209 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



NATIVE 




43 

44 
45 

46 J 



47 

4B 
40 

SO 

Sx 

Sa 

53 
54 
55 

S« 
57 
58 

59 
6o 
6z 

6a 

U 

67 J 



Umdkr 

$13 



/ $xa- 

l $14-99 



$15 

TO 
$19-99 



$30 
AND 

ovn 



I 
.I 



Amcricui 



u 



i« 



(I 



II 
II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 



II 
II 



II 
II 



II 



1 




O 


4 


•*5 


Tonoace 


3 


No 


Boatman 
Tonnige 


3 

6 


o 

o 


4 
6 


Yet 

No 


II 


4 


o 


5 


Yes 


Dayman 


7 


o 


4 


M 


Laborer 
Clerical 


8 
3 


o 
o 


5 

3 


It 

No 


II 


4 


o 


5 


Yes 




a 


o 


5 


It 


Dayman 


3 


X 


4 


II 


II 


5 


o 


6 


II 


II 


8 


o 


6 


II 


II 


a 


o 


5 


II 


Dayman 


9 


o 


3 


II 


Clerical 


a 


a 


7 


II 


Tonnage 


6 


o 


6 


II 


Dayman 


a 


o 


4 


II 


II 


a 


o 


6 


II 


Oriral 


5 


o 


6 


II 


II 


7 


o 


6 


II 


Day man 

II 


5 

3 


3 
o 


5 

3 


II 
II 


Professional 
Tonnage 


4 
3 


o 
o 


6 
5 


II 
II 


• • 


9 


o 


6 


II 



Young man brought up on iMxm. Fairly cee- 

fortable home. 
Man away a good deaL Live coiai ort a h^y. 
In Homatead since a boy. Womaa cans \ 

little. Own home. 
Man ill, unable to work, famSy live oa sack beat- 

fits, savings and credit. Own faome. 



jot- 



Man began woric at i6 as derk; 
shiftleto. Son messenger in milL 



Young German-American coople. Wife bKoa- 

ly dressmaker. Neat attrsctive hooie. 
Prosperous young couple, thrift, attach 

home. 
Spend money fiedy. Entertun. Pay cash iar 

everything. 
Earns about $3 a day. Have roomy hoase s» 

take a lodger. Home wdl cared for. 
Two sroung sons in mill hdp sup p uit ha^. 

Own home free. Well insored. 
Have bought home in suburb. Womaa ooaape- 

tent 
Man has fair salary. Spend fredy for what tkr 

want. Good home. 



Old residents of Homes t ead. Man worked hne 

before strike. Boy works in mill nregnlady. 
Middle aged couple. Man semi-offidal positioa. 

B^d some unusual expenses so took lodgcn. 
Man not much good. Two sons practicaS^ up- 
port famfly. Own home. 
Old residents of Homestead. Have comfortiUe. 

small home. 
Went to school till 17. Since in mUL Ears 

about $3.50 a day. Very nice home. 
Man has small business of his own. Tamh 

prosperous, own home, have bank acooasi 

Son 16 in school. 
Own home in suburb. Son in miU. Daqglser 

at home. 
German descent. Man earns about $a-a5 a dir 
Earns about $3 a day. One child. Smau faoex. 

have savings. 
Live weU. 
Ten years in Homestead. Man cams abac 

$3.50 a da;^. Savings in bank. We&furmsked 

home. Irish-American. 
Man had small store which he sold. Fami^ tn- 

ing on savings. One son at work, pays $5 1 

week board. 



210 



APPENDIX II 



WHITE 



I'* 



s 

4 



xo 

8 

4 

13 

4 

4 
4 



S 
xo 

5 
4 
S 

4 



5 

4 

5 

4 



-.155 
r*5 



I 9.20 

10.40 
9.39 

9-35 



X3.8o 

X9-37 
16.96 

X&04 

17.39 
X9.53 
i8.x6 

XS.09 
19.05 

az.og 

32.00 

30.93 
33.43 

33.57 

34.84 

33-59 

38.9s 
39.34 

39JZ 
34x4 

38.39 



-I 
If 



f .50 

• ■ 

.50 
3.63 

X.75 

3.50 

• • 

.50 



06 



1.00 



3.Z3 



4.00 



X.OO 






I 31a 



8.00 



36.49 







'^ 



f 9-X4 

XO.49 
8.7S 

0.35 



ia.80 

10.33 
16.94 

X8.07 

17.38 
19.SX 
18. 13 
XS.07 
19.03 

3Z.05 

3X.97 
3a93 

33.46 

33.56 

S4.84 

«3.S7 

28.9s 
39.34 

a9Jix 
34.X8 

38.39 



AVKRAQX WXKXLT EXFSMDRUSX FOR 



I 



$4.50 

X.79 
6.50 

4.38 



5.9a 

8.33 
6.X9 

6.3Z 

5.41 
6.53 

6.83 
8.64 
4.3X 

8.03 

3.6a 

8.56 

6A$ 
9.93 
7.97 

9.94 

8.50 
8.37 

5.ax 
14-04 

30.89 



$ 2.50 



5.30 

* 



3.00 

3.50 
3.33 

4.84 

5.00 

375 

* 

« 
4.59 

a.az 

« 

* 

5.00 
5.00 



ZX.30 
5.00 

7.05 
4.00 



S.OO 



I 



f .05 
•35 

• • 

.51 



z.xx 

.83 

.76 

Z.35 

.58 

•45 
1.00 
Z.00 
Z.00 
3-43 

• • 

1.44 

X.83 
•69 

.66 
•53 



I 



$.64 

1.04 
•63 

1^41 



.77 

3.X3 
S-30 

Z.18 

.31 
3.08 

X.30 

1-33 
3.83 

5-37 
.38 

1.39 

X.59 

.80 

7.15 

9.03 

1-34 
3.74 

3.46 
X.63 

8.47 



I .30 
Z.40 

• ■ 

.08 



.03 
•17 

.48 



1J8 
3-43 

• ■ 

.91 

1.44 

• • 

a.7S 
3.50 



.83 
.84 

5^57 



ttl 



<a 



1 .06 

.XX 

.06 

.30 



.35 

.68 

•49 
.83 
.39 

.76 
X.01 

.60 

•17 
.33 

•3a 

• • 

3.71 

•99 

•38 
.77 

•99 
•31 

•31 



1.38 

• • 

•67 

Z.30 
X.07 

Z.5X 

z.00 

•36 

1.7s 

X.5X 

X.08 

3.37 

.98 

•34 

•35 

3.55 

• • 

x.oa 
3.04 

.30 

.15 
4.50 

1^47 



$•05 

•14 

•13 



•04 



.05 



.13 
.31 

.39 



.38 



.08 



.35 



.19 



f 06 



.30 



.38 

.ax 



.46 



tq 



f .oa 

■ • 

.60 

•03 
.73 



x.8a 
.xa 
•59 



.50 
.37 

.75 



•90 

.04 

9.50 



.04 

..1: 

X.35 



f .65 

•53 

•75 

•95 



43 

44 
45 

46 



.85 { 



47 



X.39 

3.48 
.83 

6.Z4 
.xo 

3.a3 

X.56 
16.55 
3.55 
4-97 
•59 
t.97 

x.xx 
3.96 

4.X3 

10.99 

3.91 
.97 



r48 

40 
SO 

5« 
5» 
53 
54 

155 

f56 
57 
58 

59 
60 
6x 

6a 

u 

67 



X Including credit. 

> Avenge amount purchased on credit. 

* Families owned home. 



211 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



COLORED 





1 


1 


it 


a 


^ Number ef 
Rooms 


Water im 
House 


Remarks 


68 




Negro 


• ■ 




Yes 


boarders. One cnild at home. 


60 




(i 


Window deaner 







a 


No 


Man began work as chore boy. Woik itiegalaL 


70 




(( 


Janitor 







a 


II 


Man out of work. Woman eama a little. Mar- 
ried children help. 


71 




M 


Teamster 









•1 


Young couple with one cfaikL Wiie good 
natured but totally ignnant. 


7a 


Undu 


«< 


II 









11 


Young couple. Home neat and wdl lumhlied 
but dark and unsanitary. 


73 


$19 


U 











II 


Middle aged couple. Plessant home. 


74 




II 


Mason 




X 




Yes 


Man fonneriy miner. Two dark rooma. 


75 




II 


<i 









<« 


home. Son unruly. 


76 




M 


Dayman 









No 


Small dark tenement but neatly Cnmahed a^ 
weQ cared for. One small chad. 


















77 




II 


Houaework 




5 




II 


One son at woric, rest of income from fire bxs 


78 




U 


Tonnage 









Yes 


lodgers. 

home on hill, good garden. 


79 < 




I* 


Teamster 









No 


Here only a few years, from Virghiin. Little 
house. Six families share one yara. 


80 




II 


•1 









II 


Small shabby unsanitary home. Man's wad 
irregular in winter. 


8x 


lis 


II 






a 




II 


Earns $a.5o to I3 a day. Nke home, wdl for- 
















nished. 


8s 


TO 

1x4^ 


l( 


Hod carrier 









11 


Man's work very irr^ular. Home onsanitxiT: 
children sickly. 


83 




M 











II 


Began work on a farm, now faming about $2.50 
a day. Simple but weQ fumtthed and cheofd 
home, good garden. 


84 




II 


Laborer 


5 







II 




85^ 




»l 


Teamster 


3 







Yes 


Young married couple with one child. Soafi 
neat home. 


86 




II 


Tonnage 


6 







II 


Exceptionally attractive home with lane gard^ 
Woman competent, man devoted to nome. 




lis 














87 


TO 


II 


Housework 


4 


a 




No 


One son idle. Family rather degenerate. 




1x0-90 














88 




l( 


Day man 


a 







II 


Went to work at xo iMcklng cotton, at x8 ints 

mines, now semi-skilled m mill: live over stoze. 

Woman helps support family. Sexc from Sootk 


8g 




M 


Painter 


3 







Yes 


















8years. 


00 


fao 

AMD 
, OVXK 


II 


Teamster 


4 





4 


No 


Rather poor home. 



212 



APPENDIX II 



COLORED 



•IS 

4l 




-1 
If 




1 


AVERAOB WXCXLY EXPKMDirUBX FOB 


1 


1 


1 


i 


^ 


II 

f .z6 


»** 


i>4 

I.03 


1 


1 


1 


6 


1 7-03 


Iz^ 




• 7.00 


$3.oa 


$3.30 


$ .08 


f .SI 


f .SO 


1 .z8 


• • 


$^ 


$.87 


68 




0^ 


i.as 




9.9a 


4^a 


I.7S 


.78 


.69 


• • 


.03 


ZX>3 


.37 


• • 


.97 


.09 


69 




S'U 


• • 




3.39 


z.az 


1.50 


^ 


.35 


• • 


jt>S 


• • 


.03 


■ • 


• ■ 


'U 


70 




ZO.IS 


.SO 




zao7 


3x>z 


3.50 


.69 


.93 


■ • 


.53 


•99 


• m 


• • 


.67 


.76 


71 


• m 


9.50 


• • 




9.50 


3.19 


9X)0 


.71 


.93 


• • 


.33 


.37 


.19 


■ m 


.30 


Z.39 


7« 




".79 
7.0s 
7.70 


• • 

• • 




"70 
7.06 

7.69 


4.za 

4.30 


3.SO 
3.00 

ajoo 


1.39 
.az 
.30 


.64 

■ a 

.39 


• • 

;o8 


.35 

.Z3 
.Z3 


Z.80 

z.z8 

.39 


•U 

• • 

• • 


• • 

• • 

• • 


.35 

• • 

•OS 


.70 

Z.03 

.35 


73 
74 
7S 




zz-34 


S.07 




zz.38 


S.07 


8.30 


Z.00 


3.IS 


.30 


.38 


.36 


.03 


f -07 


• ■ 


Z.Z3 


76 




ix.x8 


•SO 




zz.z8 


S.76 


8.50 


1.76 


• • 


.30 


.Z3 


z.6z 


• • 


• • 


.30 


.83 


77 




8.go 


• • 




8.99 


9.93 


3.00 


.03 


Z.03 


• • 


.06 


^ 


• • 


• • 


• • 


.98 


[78 




Z9^S 


• • 




za.37 


4.37 


z.8z 


Z.38 


.79 


.37 


.33 


.6S 


• • 


.06 


•4X 


9.40 


79 




13.36 


■ ■ 




za.36 


6.33 


3.00 


Z.45 


.56 


■ • 


.3Z 


.37 


• • 


■ • 


• . 


1-45 


80 




14.68 


• • 




14.78 


S.99 


4.00 


.68 


3.38 


Z.7S 


.Z3 


.17 


.zz 


.05 


•43 


Z.ZO 


8z 




za.43 


8.4a 




ia.47 


S-SZ 


Z.88 


.03 


a. 09 


• • 


.17 


.07 


■ • 


• • 


4.ZS 


.60 


83 




ZS.09 


4.36 




za.za 


8.06 


a.so 


■ • 


X.Z7 


• ■ 


.30 


• ■ 


• • 


• ■ 


• m 


.09 


83 




ia.38 


a.73 




za.99 


6.33 


3.00 


Z.4S 


• • 


• • 


.09 


•39 


.08 


• . 


1.09 


•96 


,84 




Z6.86 


• • 




z6.88 


6M 


9.80 


.40 


Z.77 


■ • 


.zz 


Z.41 


.oz 


S.OO 


Z.50 


3.00 


[85 




Z9.80 


• m 




Z9.80 


8.37 


4.00 


.38 


Z.Z3 


• • 


'S9 


3.50 


■ ■ 


• • 


.69 


3.37 


86 


m • 


z8^9 


Z.30 




Z8.4X 


S.z6 


3.50 


71 


z,os 


• ■ 


.85 


Z.04 


.oz 


S.OO 


.74 


Z.3S 


87 




XS.77 


I.7S 




1S.84 


S.00 


3.50 


1.17 


z.38 


.63 


.73 


.8z 


.z8 


■ • 


1.98 


1.47 


88 




Z8.37 


8.00 




z8.a7 


9.68 


3.00 


3.6s 


• ■ 


• ■ 


.as 


.37 


.z8 


• • 


• m 


3.X4 


.89 


4 


ao.74 


• ■ 


• ■ 


ao.74 


8.4S 


3.SO 


z.6a 


• • 


■ • 


.97 


4.60 


■ • 


• • 


.63 


Z.98 90 



* Including credit. 

* Avenpt amount purchased on credit 

* Familiea owned borne. 



213 



8 



z 

o 

2 
< 

o 

UJ— » 
tUZ 

fe8 

L*< *^ ^ 

Hz ^ 

I— i«"^ 

Z oi 

§88 

3 

:g 



>< 

a 
z 



4? 


40 

years 

and 

ever 


S^vTSS;?? S |<g :^■!^{^« S* 






>|«.r{:.!jjKa' s^^^f^s^Sv 


00 




NO 3. tf^r^k^t-ri ^ »#\^3-3 5NONO e^ 
-• ▼© *r\cl ▼ffN fr>0*«< O <J'»#N^»rs 


i 


?8 


m "" — "* "* 


>o 


1-1 


mm m an • • a* • •••••«• «« 


^ 




:::::«- ^f^HssS^ 


us 

if 






1 




^i^s^i^imirs s^^s^s^ 


s 

CI 


11 


^«J|5'»5'? ^KSjag-* 


.3- 


J|l 








S^sga^l* ;r'8fe8"a"'^'" 


if 


2 








^jSvS 2 8 t^r>» ♦'^js^^ 5»&5 2" 


o 


« 


^s^fs.!?^'' 5rg:fes;K.^'^'' 


NO 


to 


NO (ioovD^O UN fi>^— — 
In "" 


1 




••• 


■ ••■■■ • 2j «•■••••• 

8 

1,- " " : ' J ' : '. ' ".ill 

• • c-e S dj w'S*^ o ir-g 3.t- 9 5 


• 
• 
• 



214 



APPENDIX IV 

CLASSIFICATION AND EARNINGS OF EMPLOYES IN 

THREE REPRESENTATIVE STEEL PLANTS OF 

THE PITTSBURGH DISTRICT, 

OCTOBER 1, 1907 

128-INCH PLATE MILL 

Men Earning Over I3.33 Per Day Earnings 

(i. e., over fio for six-day week) Number P$r Day 

Supts., General Foremen, 30* — ^42* — 128' 2 I6.05 

Heaters 4 7.21 

Rollers 2 8u(4 

Rollers' Assistants 10 4^10 

Shearmen 6 5.58 

Heaters' Helpers 2 4.09 

Markers 12 3.50 

Roll Engineers 2 

Crane and Machine Operators 6 



4! 18 



Men Earning I2.50 to 13.3^ Per Day 
(i. e., I15 to 1 1 9.99 for six-<fay week) 

Clerks, Timekeepers and Weighers . .18 I2.63 

Rollers' Assistants 4 2.83 

Shearmen j 3.13 

Shearmen Helpers 38 3.30 

Inspectors 7 2.70 

Millwrights 6 2.68 

Shippers and Checkers 7 2.89 



Men Earning I2.00 to |2^ Per Day 
(i. e., |i2 to 1 1 4.99 for six-day week) 

Markers 3 I3.17 

Shearmen Helpers 4 2syj 

Crane and Machine Operators 10 2.33 

Common Labor, Unspecified Positions ... 20 2u|0 



Men Earning Under I2.00 Per Day 
(i. e., under |i2 for six-day week), 

Common Labor (16} cents per hour) •49 I1.82 

215 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



23-INCH STRUCTURAL MILL 

Men Earning Over I3.33 Per Day Earnings 

(i. e., over |ao for six-day week) Number P§r Day 

Supts., General Foremen i I4.61 

Heaters 6 4.98 

Rollers 2 7.J8 

Rollers' Assistants 8 3^3 



Men Earning I3.50 to 1^.3^ Per Day 
(i. e., |i$ to 1 1 9.99 for sixKlay week) 

Foremen ^ • 5 I2.80 

Clerks, Timekeepers and Weighers . . . . ^ 2.53 

Heaters' Helpers o 2.99 

Hot Sawyer and Push Over 2 2.77 

Straighteners 10 2.79 

Cold Sawyers 8 2.70 

Crane and Machine Operators 4 3.23 

Engineers, Stationary 4 2.76 

Inspectors 2 2.70 



Men Earning I2.00 to I2.49 Per Day 
(i. e., |i2 to 1 1 4.99 for six-day week) 

Qerks, Timekeepers and Weighers .... 4 |2-33 

"**.... 4 2.47 

Crane and Machine Operators 8 2.16 

Checkers 2 2.04 



Men Earning Under {2.00 Per Day 
(i. e., under |i2 for six-day week) 

Common Labor ( 1 6i cents an hour) . • 50 |i-98 

Unspecified Positions ... 23 1.65 



<i « 



38-INCH BLOOMING MILL 

Men Earning Over I3.33 Per Day Earnings 

(i. e., over |2o for six-day week) Number Per Day 

Rollers 2 I6.47 

Heaters 2 6.47 

Supts., General Foremen 1 3.05 

Foremen 4 3.52 

Heaters' Helpers 8 3.77 

Shearmen 2 3.77 

216 



APPENDIX IV 

Men Earning I2.50 to 1^.33 Per Day Earnings 
(i. e., |i 5 to {19.99 ^^^ six-day week) Number Per Day 

Qerks, Timekeepers and Weighers .... 4 I3.67 

Rollers' Assistants -4 3-^ 

Shear Helpers 8 3.58 

Inspectors 2 3.70 

Engineers, Roll Engihe 4 3.04 

Crane and Machine Operators 4 3.19 

Engineers, Narrow Gauge 3 2.qa 

Millwrights . ' 6 2.60 

Men Earning |3.oo to I3.49 Per Day 
(i. e., |i3 to 1 1 4.99 for six-day week) 

Qerks, Timekeepers and Weighers .... 7 {3.48 

Engineers, Stationary 3 2.37 

Common Labor Unspecified Positions per 1 00 tons 3 3. 1 6 

Crane and Machine Operators 10 3.03 

Men Earning Under I2.00 Per Day 
(i. e., under |i2 for six-day week) 

Common Labor ( 1 6^ cents per hour) . . • 58 1 1*98 

Unspecifiea Positions ... 13 1.90 



i< i< 



217 



APPENDIX V 



AN ACT TO ENABLE BOROUGH COUNCILS TO ESTAB- 
LISH BOARDS OF HEALTH. STATE OF 
PENNSYLVANIA, 1893 



Town Council or Burgess 
shall appoint a Board of 
Health to consist of five 
persons. 



Length of term of first ap- 
pointees. 



Shall be appointed by dis- 
tricts. 

Duties, etc., of board, how 
regulated. 



Members to be sworn and 
shall oiganize annually. 



Section i. Be it enacted, etc., that it shall 
be the duty of the President of the town council or 
buigess where he is the presiding officer, of every 
borough in this Commonwealth, within six xnooths 
after the passage of this Act, to nominate and by 
and with the consent of the council to appoint a 
board of health of such borough to consist of ^yt 
persons not members of the council, one of whooi 
shall be a reputable physician of not less than two 
years' standing in the practice of his professioo. 
At the first appointment the president of the town 
council, or burgess where he is the presiding officer, 
shall designate one of the members to serve for one 
year, one to serve for two years, one to serve for 
three years, one to serve for four years and one to 
serve for five years, and thereafter one member of 
said board shall be appointed annually to serve for 
five years. The board shall be appointed by dis- 
tricts to be fixed by the town council, representing 
as equally as may be all portions of the borough. 
The members shall serve without compensation. 

Section 2. The duties, responsibilities, 
powers and prerogatives of said board shall be 
identical with those assigned to boards of health of 
cities of the third class by sections three, four, five, 
six and seven of article eleven of the Act of May 
twenty-third, one thousand eight hundred and 
eighty-nine, entitled "An act providing for the in- 
corporation and government of cities of the third 
class," which reads as follows, due allowance being 
made for the difference in the municipal govern- 
ment of cities and boroughs. 

Section 3. The members of the board shall 
severally take and subscribe the oath prescribed for 

218 



APPENDIX V 



Salaries. 



Bonds. 



Fee to be paid into the 
borough treasury. 



President and secretary 
shall have power to ad- 
minister oaths. 

Powers and duties of board 
as to infectious diseases. 



May establish hospitals. 



borough officers, and shall annually oiganize by the 
choice of one of their number as president. They 
shall elect a secretary, who shall keep the minutes of 
their proceedings and perform such other duties as 
may be directed by the board, and a health officer 
who shall execute the orders of the board, and for 
that purpose the said health officer shall have and 
exercise the powers and authority of a policeman 
of the borough. The secretary and the health offi- 
cer shall receive such salary as may be fixed by 
the board, and they shall hold their offices during 
the pleasure of the board. They shall severally 
give bond to the borough in such sums as may be 
fixed by ordinance for the faithful dischaige of their 
duties, and shall also take and subscribe the oath 
required by members of the board. All fees which 
shall be collected or received by the board or by 
any officer thereof in his official capacity, shall 
be paid over into the borough treasury monthly, to- 
gether with all penalties which shall be recovered 
for the violation of any regulation of the board. The 
president and secretary shall have full power to ad- 
minister oaths of affirmation in any proceedings or in- 
vestigation touching upon the regulation of the board, 
but shall not be entitled to receive any fee therefor. 
Section 4. The said board of health shall 
have power, and it shall be their duty, to make and 
enforce all needful rules and regulations to prevent 
the introduction and spread of infectious or contag- 
ious diseases, by the regulation of intercourse with in- 
fected places, by the arrest, separation and treat- 
ment of infected persons, and persons who shall 
have been exposed to any infectious or contagious 
disease, and by abating. and removing all nuisances 
which they shall deem prejudicial to public health; 
to enforce vaccination, to mark infected houses or 
places, to prescribe rules for the construction and 
maintenance of house drains, water pipes, soil pipes 
and cess-pools, and to make all such other regula- 
tions as they shall deem necessary for the preserva- 
tion of the public health. They shall also have 
power with the consent of the councils in any case 
of the prevalence of any contagious or infectious 
diseases within the borough to establish one or 
more hospitals and to make provisions and regu- 



219 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



May appoint district phy- 
sicians and sanitary agents. 



Duties of all practicing 
physicians. 



Abatement of nuisances. 



Costs and expenses. 



May maintain system of 
registration of marriages 
and births and deaths. 



Board shall publish neces- 
sary rules and regulations. 



lations for the management of same. The board 
may in such cases appoint as many ward or district 
physicians and other sanitary agents as they may 
deem necessary whose salaries shall be fixed by the 
board before their appointment. It shall be the 
duty of all physicians practicing in the borough to 
report to the secretary of said board of health the 
names and residences of all persons coming under 
their professional care afflicted with such contagious 
or infectious diseases, in the manner directed by 
said board. 

Section 5. The said board of health shall 
have power, as a body or by committee, as well as 
the health officer, together with his subordinates, 
assistants and workmen, under and by orders of 
the said board, to enter at any time upon any 
premises in the borough upon which there is sus- 
pected to be any infectious or contagious disease or 
nuisance detrimental to the public health for the 
purpose of examining and abating the same; and all 
written orders for the removal of nuisance issued 
to the said health officer by order of said board, 
attested by the secretary, shall be executed by him 
and his subordinates and workmen, and the costs and 
expenses thereof shall be recoverable from the 
owner or owners of the premises from which the 
nuisance shall be removed or from any person or 
persons causing or maintaining the same, in the 
same manner as debts of like account are now by 
law collected. 

Section 6. The said board of health shall 
have power to create and maintain a complete and 
accurate system of the registration of all marriages, 
births and deaths which may occur within the 
borough and to compel obedience of the same upon 
the part of all physicians and other medical prac- 
titioners, clergymen, magistrates, undertakers, sex- 
tons and all other persons from whom information 
for such purposes may properly be required. The 
board shall make and cause to be published, all 
necessary rules and regulations for carrying into 
effect the powers and functions with which they 
are hereby invested, which rules and regulations, 
when approved by the borough council and chief 
burgess, and when advertised in the same manner 



220 



APPENDIX V 



How penalties, etc., shall 
be recovered. 

Board shall submit estimate 
of probable receipts and 
expenditures. 



Council to make appro- 
priation. 

Shall submit an annual re- 
port. 



G)mmunication with State 
(Board) G>mmissioner of 
Health. 



Repeal. 



as other ordinances, shall have the force of ordi- 
nances of the borough, and all penalties for the vio- 
lation thereof, as well as the expenses necessarily 
incurred, in carrying the same into effect, shall be 
recoverable for the use of the borough in the same 
manner as penalties for the violation of borough 
ordinances subject to the like limitations as to the 
amount thereof. 

Section 7. It shall be the duty of the board 
of health to submit annually to the council before 
the commencement of the fiscal year, an estimate of 
the probable receipts and expenditures of the board 
during the ensuing year, and the council shall then 
proceed to make such appropriation thereto as they 
shall deem necessary; and the said board shall in 
the month of January of each year submit a report 
in writing to the council of its operations for the 
preceding year with the necessary statistics, together 
with such information or suggestions relative to 
the sanitary conditions and requirements of the 
borough as it may deem proper, and the council 
shall publish the same, in its official journal. It 
shall also be the duty of the board to communicate 
to the State (Board) G)mmissioner of Health, at 
least annually notice of its oiganization and member- 
ship, and copies of all its reports and publications, 
together with such sanitary information as may 
from time to time be required by said State 
(Board) Department. 

Section 8. All acts or parts of acts inconsis- 
tent with or contrary to the provisions of this act are 
hereby repealed. 

Approved — ^The nth day of May, A. D. 1893. 



RoBT. E. Pattison 



221 



APPENDIX VI 

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH OF THE BOROUGH 
OF HOMESTEAD FOR THE YEAR ENDING 

DEC. 31, 1908* 

To the President and Members of the Council of the Borough of 
Homestead. 

Gentlemen: — 

We submit to your honorable body a report of the work 
accomplished by your Board during the past year. The Sanitary 
Work as reviewed in our last report has been carried on as vigor- 
ously as at any time in the past, and the work done in this respect 
will speak for itself in figures compiled for that purpose herein- 
after incorporated. Besides taking care of the regular work of 
our department, we have given no little attention to the milk 
question. With the help of the Council we have been able to have 
passed and approved a set of Model Rules and Regulations 
governing every phase of conditions whereby the town can be kept 
in a clean and sanitary condition if the same are obeyed, and giving 
us power to punish the offender if the same are not obeyed. As 
we have said before, the milk question has been given more atten- 
tion than has been customary in the past, as this question has 
become a real live one, and there are not many users of milk in a 
municipality who ever give the question a thought as to what the 
conditions and surroundings are at the bams from which they 
derive their milk supply. There is no commodity that is so 
susceptible to surrounding conditions and which is so easily con- 
taminated as milk. If bams and their surroundings are not kept 
in an extraordinary sanitary condition the odors arising from the 
filth contaminate the milk and make it unwholesome. Your 
Board has gone into this phase of the question thoroughly and 
had one of the Inspectors from the State Board investigate every 

* For an interesting comment on The Pittsburgh Survey see p. 224. 

222 



APPENDIX VI 

dairy from which Homestead draws its milk supply and make a 
written report of each one separately to us, and on an average the 
majority of the dairies were in a fair condition. A few were above 
the average and are model dairies, while a few were in a filthy 
condition and were given the option by your Board of either bring- 
ing the same up to the standard within a specified period or cease 
selling milk within the corporate limits of the Borough. We are 
pleased to say that there is a steady improvement going on in the 
few real bad dairies, and we shall not cease our crusade against 
them until they are up to the standard required by law. We have 
also had some prosecutions against local dealers for selling adul- 
terated milk, and in all prosecutions disposed of to date, conviction 
has been secured and the guilty parties fined. This is the worst 
feature of the milk business we have to contend with. During 
the summer months formaldehyde, a rank poison, is put in the milk 
by unscrupulous dealers for the purpose of preserving it, and as a 
general rule the amount of formaldehyde used for preserving 
purposes when drank with the milk, will not injure an adult 
person, but is, without a doubt, fatal to children. This has been 
demonstrated by our most eminent medical men, and we are de- 
termined to continue prosecutions against all violators of the law 
in this respect. As no human being could conceive of a more 
dastardly or contemptible piece of work under the guise of modem 
business methods than this, any contamination of food to be con- 
sumed by human beings, and especially that used by infants, 
should be, and we are determined shall be, prosecuted to the limit 
of the law. We have made a start in this direction and we shall 
continue until the law is fully respected in this particular. We 
have also begun an innovation by requesting the milk dealers to 
co-operate with us in the thorough cleansing of the milk bottles 
before refilling, and in this respect we have demanded that they 
be not allowed to deliver milk in bottles to houses where a con- 
tagious or infectious disease has developed, believing that by this 
method we can prevent, to a certain extent, the spread of these 
diseases, as milk bottles used in houses, where contagious or 
infectious diseases have developed, if not thoroughly cleansed, 
are liable to become contaminated and carry these diseases into 
other homes. So we believe much good will come from this order 

223 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

if properly lived up to, and if any violators of this order are caught 
we propose to destroy the bottles in question, as we consider this 
necessary for the preservation of the good health of the community. 

SANITARY CONDITIONS 

With respect to the general sanitary conditions of the town 
we are of the opinion that the work we have accomplished since 
our last report justifies us in saying that the general conditions are 
considerably better than they were one year ago. During the 
first part of the year we requested the co-operation of the public 
in general to assist us in making the sanitary conditions of the 
Borough the best in its history by procuring garbage cans that 
would not leak, and keep the same covered at all times, and to 
keep all garbage and refuse matter in these cans, and have the 
same emptied at least once each week, as specified in the Borough 
Ordinance, and urged them not to throw these substances, so 
deleterious and dangerous to the public health, around openly in 
the yard, and in this respect we can say we have reason to compli- 
ment the largest portion of our population for complying with this 
order and co-operating with the Board for the benefit of not only 
themselves, but for the entire community. While, on the other 
hand, certain classes of people, as you will find in every community 
pay no attention whatever to sanitary measures and have to be 
compelled by our Inspectors to even keep clean the inside of the 
house in which they live. This condition is unwarranted in a 
civilized community, but nevertheless true. In some instances 
to get them to obey the law in this respect we are compelled to 
resort to prosecution, but we are determined to keep the Borough 
in a clean, sanitary condition at any cost. 

A LITTLE ABOUT THE PITTSBURG SURVEY WITH REGARD TO 

CONDITIONS IN HOMESTEAD 

The conditions portrayed by this Survey had a tendency to 
exaggerate to a certain degree. It is not our intention to criticize 
the work done by this Survey or to do anything to interfere in 
any manner with the good the originators of this Survey expect to 
accomplish. In what manner they expected to accomplish any 

224 



-i 



APPENDIX VI 

good is beyond our comprehension. The mere fact of going into a 
locality and portraying the conditions existing there, and then 
producing them in miniature and exhibiting them in large centers 
of population away from where the actual conditions exist, does 
not in any way improve the conditions of that particular locality. 
It has been true ever since the world began that to accomplish 
or to succeed in any way or in any thing one must work intelli- 
gently and industriously, and the only way that we can conceive 
that conditions can be bettered in the Second Ward, Homestead, 
is by work such as your Board has been doing, and not by exhibi- 
tion, as done by the Pittsburg Survey. And then again conditions 
exhibited by them are not the true conditions as existing today. 
This survey was taken nearly two years ago, and if you will peruse 
our last annual report you will perceive that we had undertaken 
during the year 1907 to disseminate the occupants of overcrowded 
houses, and an inspection of the locality referred to will reveal the 
fact as to what extent we have succeeded in relieving the conges- 
tion of overcrowded houses. We have been carrying this work 
along without abatement during the past two years, and we realize 
even at this time that conditions are not ideal by any means. 
Yet we have accomplished so much along this line that the real 
bad conditions found two years ago, are not to be found to-day. 
Occasionally it is brought to our notice that there is an overcrowded 
house, and our officers are immediately dispatched with orders to 
compel the vacation of some of the occupants, and in all cas^s the 
orders have been obeyed. It is impossible to prevent the over- 
crowding of houses, as the occupants can move in while the officers 
are not in that immediate vicinity. But when we discover such 
conditions exist we promptly have them remedied. It is hard to 
keep conditions as they should be in this particular locality, but 
we can truly say we are doing our best along this line, and we are 
of the opinion that we are accomplishing something. So, with 
all due respect to the Pittsburg Survey, we are still of the opinion 
that conditions found by them to exist in the Second Ward and 
exhibited by them in the Pittsburg Carnegie Library are not the 
true conditions as exist in the Second Ward to-day. 



IS 225 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



THE SPITTING ORDINANCE 

In our last report we congratulated Council on the enactment 
of an ordinance prohibiting spitting on the sidewalks and in public 
places, and endeavored to demonstrate why such an ordinance 
should be rigidly enforced for the good of the entire community. 
Some little work has been done along this line, but not enough to 
justify the assertion. We are still of the opinion that this is a 
splendid measure, and believe much good will come from its 
enforcement. Our greatest authorities on scientific matters have 
demonstrated and tell us, that germs of disease are communicated 
from one person to another in this manner, thereby causing a 
larger majority of communicable diseases than we otherwise 
would have if this measure was enforced. It is an unsightly thing 
to observe where people have expectorated all along the sidewalk, 
and should be stopped, if for no other reason than this. But 
when the influences for contagion are taken into consideration 
there should be no hesitancy in a strict enforcement of this 
ordinance. We therefore recommend that the proper officers be 
authorized to give this matter their careful attention by enforcing 
this measure, as we believe the results obtained from such a crusade 
will justify our confidence in this ordinance from a sanitary point 
of view. 

CONTAGIOUS DISEASES 

Jan. 1, 1908, to Jan. i, 1909 

Measles 113 

Typhoid Fever 28 

Pneumonia 24 

Chicken Pox 18 

Diphtheria 14 

Scarlet Fever 15 

Pulmonary Tuberculosis 16 

Cerebro-spinal Meningitis 6 

Ervsipelas 5 

Wnooping Cough 4 

Tetanus i 

Mumps 4 

Incipient Tuberculosis i 

Total 248 

226 



APPENDIX VI 
WORK OF OUR OFFICERS 

We especially ask that a careful perusal be given to the work 
accomplished by our officers during the past year. Our officers 
have done all the fumigating, as in the previous year, and following 
is a complete review of the work accomplished, and we will leave 
it to the opinion of the reader as to whether or not the work done 
and the results obtained justify the amount expended for this 
purpose. 

Fumigated after the abatement of contagious diseases, 135 
rooms; dead animals hauled from off the streets, in; compelled 
the cleaning of 2,1 58 yards; compelled the cleaning of 337 cellars; 
made owners clean in entirety 89 houses; compelled the putting 
in a sanitary condition 79 stables; supervised the cleaning of 391 
closets; compelled the abandonment of 42 closets; had 55 closets 
in yards discontinued and placed in the houses instead; compelled 
the opening of 206 clogged sewers; condemned 3 buildings; 
tacked up 300 garbage notices; succeeded in installing 78 new 
garbage cans; visited 56 families in quest of contagious diseases; 
served 70 notices to principals of schools of contagious diseases 
existing in families whose children were school pupils; served 
494 written notices and 2,125 verbal ones to landlords, agents and 
tenants to remove garbage and rubbish from premises; compelled 
the removal of 54 boarders and 25 beds from overcrowded houses; 
had 7 manure boxes removed from alleys; notified and compelled 
31 persons to procure proper receptacles for garbage; served 45 
copies of the new Milk Ordinance to milk dealers and 30 copies 
to milk shippers, and collected for analysis 24 samples of milk 
from dealers. 

Outside of the work enumerated above our officers have 
given quite a little attention to sanitary conditions relative to 
proper sewering facilities in the Borough proper and more especially 
in the Third Ward. Conditions in some parts of this ward were 
exceedingly bad at the beginning of last year, but with a proper 
portrayal of conditions by our officers to the Street Committee 
of Council, we succeeded in having Council remedy the conditions 
by the extension of sewers to these districts, the result being that 
we were enabled thereby to make some wonderful improvements 

227 



I 



I 

I I 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

along a sanitary line in this ward. Our officers are yet of the 
opinion that conditions could and should be benefited still farther 
by the construction of sewers on Maple street and Seventeenth 
avenue, and we respectfully submit this opinion to the Council 
for their consideration. As a whole we are of the opinion that 
our officers have done remarkably well during the past year and 
we believe a study of the work accomplished will verify and justify 
our belief along this line. We therefore submit this part of the 
report to your respectful consideration. 



IJ WITH RESPECT TO EPIDEMICS 

Measles was our leading contagious disease during the past 
year which was also true of the previous year. Out of the 1 1 2 cases 
for the entire year 55 of them developed in the month of January, 
and the large majority of these cases being in the hill district or 
Third Ward. These cases developed in so close proximity to one 
another and so fast that they gave your board some little concern, 
but it was finally gotten under control without the inconvenience 
of resorting to any measures of a harsh nature. Epidemics of 
this disease are caused through the carelessness of some person 
and we desire to ask and persuade all parents to be very careful 
and not allow their children to mingle with any member of the 
family or to allow any outsider to come into the house while there 
is a case of measles in the household. We desire to inform every- 
body that the majority of people look upon measles as a harmless 
disease, and in fact they have every reason to do so, as the death 
rate from measles has been very low in the past. But the con- 
tinual negligence in the care of patients suffering with measles, by 
allowing them to come in contact with other people, will result in 
an epidemic of this disease which will result in a harvest of deaths 
and compel your Board to institute a quarantine as rigid as in 
cases of smallpox, thereby inconveniencing the whole community. 
So for the good of the whole people we ask the co-operation of the 
entire citizenship of the Borough to appoint themselves a com- 
mittee to enforce the health regulations with respect to contagious 
diseases by agreeing to keep all patients afflicted with contagious 
or infectious diseases isolated in such a manner that it will be 
impossible for these diseases to spread beyond the house in which it 

228 



APPENDIX VI 

developed. This can be done with very little effort on the part 
of the people, and by so doing a more healthful condition can 
be established and much concern and anxiety eliminated for not 
only your Board but for the entire populace. Let us get together 
and have co-operation in this respect and ascertain what result 
can be obtained in the coming year. 

ANOTHER WORD TO PHYSICIANS 

In our last annual report we gave a short talk to the physi- 
cians of the Borough with respect to their negligence in reporting 
contagious diseases, and when we inserted that paragraph in our 
last report we did not think it would be necessary for us to again 
resume this advice one year hence. But we still believe, as we 
did one year ago, that there has developed and existed quite a 
number of diseases designated as contagious under the law, that 
have not been reported as required by the Act of Assembly. The 
diseases that seem to compare the worse are pneumonia, mumps 
and whooping cough. There is no physician in the Borough who 
would care to be accused of being a law breaker, still some of them 
are doing that very thing every month in the year. The diseases 
enumerated above are exceedingly prevalent in some seasons of 
the year, and we ask the physicians to peruse the table appearing 
in this report and see if it is his opinion that this is the correct 
number of these diseases existing in the Borough during the past 
year. We think each one will agree with us that a considerable 
portion of said diseases have never been reported. And on the 
other hand the physicians not only owe it to themselves as law 
abiding citizens, but they owe it more so to the community at 
large. For in the event of a physician not reporting a very 
dangerous contagious disease, the Health Board not having 
knowledge of its existence, some unscrupulous person allows the 
child infected to enter school. Said action may result in an 
epidemic of this disease, and death may result. This is not a 
square deal, gentlemen. You are not doing your duty in the 
manner provided by law, and you are doing an injustice by so 
neglecting, to every citizen of this Borough. The law requires 
that these diseases be reported and provides a penalty for a viola- 
tion. We warned you a year ago about your neglect in this respect 

229 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

and we again inform you that our advice was not heeded and you 
have again been negligent. We have concluded that we are, and 
have been wasting time and energy in being lenient with you, and 
if this warning does not result in stricter application to the letter 
of the law in reporting the diseases therein specified, we have 
concluded that we will detail an officer on this line of the work and 
arrest all violators irrespective of who they are. We did not think 
when we issued a warning a year ago that it would be necessary 
for us to institute a threat in order to get the physicians of this 
Borough to obey the law in this respect, and we feel sorry to have 
to acknowledge that our confidence was misplaced with regard to 
this issue. We are of the opinion that we have come to the point 
when patience has ceased to be a virtue, and harsher measures 
must be employed. The measures agreed upon have been recited 
previously in this letter. We therefore would advise that the 
physicians give this their attention and govern themselves accord- 
ingly. 

BIRTHS 

Bom of American parents 360 

Bom of foreign parents 558 

Total 918 

Of these were white 877 

Of these were black 41 

Total 91S 

BIRTHS SEPARATED ACCORDING TO NATIONALITY OF PARENTS 

American 360 

Austrian 341 

Russian 54 

English 33 

Irish 26 

Italian 35 

Polish 23 

Slavish 31 

German 18 

Scotch 10 

Roumanian 3 

Welsh 3 

Arabian 1 

Syrian 1 

Swede 1 

Greek 1 

Total 918 

230 



APPENDIX VI 

A comparison of this table with the one of last year will 
reveal the fact that identically the same number of children were 
bom as during the previous year, and a comparison of the births 
and deaths for two years certainly shows that there is no race 
suicide in Homestead, as we have almost three times as many 
births as we have deaths. 

DEATHS 

Jan. I, 1908, to Jan. 1, 1909 

Still-born and premature births tj 

Pneumonia . 73 

Gastro-enteritis and Marasmus, Enterocolitis .... 67 

Tuberculosis 38 

Nephritis 16 

Convulsions 15 

Meningitis, now specific 14 

Heart Disease 13 

Bronchitis 13 

Grrhosisof liver 10 

Accidental and Suicide 9 

Acute Indigestion 4 

Apoplexy 3 

Cerebral Hemorrhage 3 

Membranous Croup 2 

Typhoid Fever 2 

Alcoholism 2 

La Grippe 2 

Puerperal Fever 2 

Acute Peritonitis 2 

Erysipelas 

Necrosis 

Scariet Fever 

Asthma 

Pleurisy 

Jaundice, Acute 

whooping Cou^h 

Meningitis, Malignant 

Paralysis 

Tonsillitis 

Progressive Anemia 

Cholera Morbus 

Total 368 

A comparison with the report of last year shows a decrease 
in the death rate of 48. In 1907 the total deaths were 416 and 
in 1908 it was 368, which is very gratifying. In 1907 we had 6 
deaths from typhoid fever, in 1908 we had only 2. This is a con- 
dition that is almost beyond belief. Two deaths from typhoid 
fever is certainly a low estimate for a population of 17,000, and 

231 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

we believe bears out our statement that the general sanitary con- 
ditions of the Borough have improved considerably. During very 
prevalent epidemics of measles, such as we experienced last 
January, many children die of pneumonia, and while no deaths 
are recorded with measles as the primary cause, still in a large 
number of cases it was the contributory cause. The same is true 
of some cases of typhoid fever. Only two deaths are recorded 
from this disease as the primary cause, yet a few deaths are 
recorded from pneumonia where typhoid fever was the contribu- 
tory cause. But even at that we consider we have been fortunate 
with this disease. 

COST AND EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR 

Officers' and Secretary's Salaries 11,730.00 

Printing 224.20 



Formaldehyde ^'^ 

ig Dairies 49*o4 

Hauling tiead Animals 3^-5^ 



Inspecting Dairies 



General Expense 26.00 

Supplies 15.93 

Freight 1.89 

Total 12,165.76 

The cost of carrying on the work of the department is nearly 
five hundred dollars less than it was for the year 1907. Attention 
to smallpox cases was a large item in our expense during the previ- 
ous year. There being no cases of this disease during the past 
year gave us a saving in this respect. The printing bill is a large 
item in this year's expense account and we desire this shall be 
understood. The model rules and regulations adopted by your 
Board during the past year we had printed in book form and 
distributed throughout the community, a sort of publicity cam- 
paign for the enlightenment and education of the people to the 
methods employed by your Board for the preservation of the good 
health of the community, and we believe the literature issued has 
justified the expense incurred. 

Respectfully submitted, 

ANDREW HILL, Secretary. 



232 



APPENDIX VII 

RECORD OF CASUALTIES ON UNPROTECTED GRADE 
CROSSINGS, HOMESTEAD, 1905-1907* 

THE Board of Trade has compiled a record of the grade cross- 
ing accidents which have taken place in Homestead from 
Jan. I, 1905, up to the present time, which will be used in 
an effort they propose to put forth to secure safety gates. The 
record shows that 23 people have met death and 25 have been per- 
manently injured on grade crossings. 

Just how to proceed to get safety gates seems hard to 
determine. Some citizens argue that the borough can compel the 
railroads to construct safety gates by legislation and some that it 
cannot, and as there is no state law covering the point there seems 
to be nothing to go by. 

McKeesport has at last forced the railroad companies to 
come to time simply by passing an ordinance declaring that the 
safety gates must be constructed at all the crossings by a certain 
time. When the ordinance was first passed the railroad officials 
only laughed at it and declared the city could not enforce the 
ordinance, but when the time for action came and they found the 
city officials determined, they came around and agreed to put up 
the gates and the material is now on the grounds ready for con- 
struction to begin. 

Mayor Coleman, when he was in Homestead Thursday 
night, said the safety gate ordinance was one of the first ordinances 
he signed, and while the railroads had demurred and delayed 
matters as much as possible they were slowly but surely coming to 
time, and that the gates would be up within a comparatively 
short time. The mayor, in conversation with a Daily Messenger 
reporter, said: 

"The material for the gates is now on the ground and I do 

* Reprinted from the Homestead Daily Messenger, 

233 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

not think the railroad companies will delay work much longer. 
When we first passed the ordinance the railroad people declared 
they would ignore it altogether, but later on they came around and 
wanted to compromise. They declared it was unfair to make 
them put gates up at every crossing and wanted to compromise by 
agreeing to put gates at the principal crossings but we stood pat 
and it now looks as if we would win out." 

When asked if he thought Homestead could compel the 
railroad companies to put up gates by legislation, he said he did, 
and added further, that we would never get safety gates unless 
the borough officials forced the companies to construct them. 

The record of the railroads, in killed and injured, as com- 
piled by the Board of Trade, from January i, 1905, to the present 
date, is as follows: 

1905 

Killed 12 

Injured i| 

Horses killed 6 

Wagons demolished 3 

1906 

Killed 6 

Injured 10 

Horses killed 3 

Wagons demolished 1 

1907 

Killed 5 

Injured 2 

Horses killed 4 

P. V. & C, 1Q05 — Persons killed, 8; injured, 9; horses and mules killed, $. 
P. & L E., IQ05 — Persons killed, 3; injured, 2; horses killed, 1. 
P. V. & C, 1906— Persons killed, 3; injured, 2. 
P. A L. £., 1906— Persons killed, 4; injured, 2. 

Date and name of those killed and injured. Also news- 
paper reports of narrow escapes: 

1905 

John Stahl, Jan. 30, 1905, P. V. & C, injured. 
Empire Laundry wagon, Feb. 1, 1905, P. V. & C, two mules killed. 
Jos. Peters (Slav), Feb. 7. 1905. P. V. & C. Gold alley, killed. 
Jos. Dobrosky, Feb. 7, 1905, Gold alley, P. V. & C., injured. 
P. J. Crawford, Mar. 7, 1905, P. V. & C. 
Tohn J. Hughes, May 2, 1905, Union, killed. 
Walter Hi^t, May 4, 1905, P. V. & C., not seriously. 
Qeveland Prov. Co. of Pittsburgh, May 8, 1905, P. V. & C, horse killed, 
driver escaped 

Lawrence Johnston, May 29, 1905, P. V. & C, Munhall, seriouslv injured. 
M. Bellot (Hun.), June 12, 1905, P. V. & C, Amity street, killed. 
Willie Schuette. July 3, 1903, P. & L. E., West Homestead, killed. 

234 



APPENDIX VI 

John Uhrin, sr., July 12, 1905, P. V. & C, City Farm Lane, killed. 

Frank Kovaic, Aug. 3, IQ05, P. & L. E., killea. 

Mrs. B. McDonougn, Aug. 10, 1905, P. & L. E., City Farm Lane, killed. 

Jacob Bernstein, Aug. 14, 1905, P. V. & C, Heisel street, seriously injured, 
horse killed, waffon demolished. 

Samuel walker, Aug. 34, 1Q05, P. V. & C, McClure street, hurt, horse killed. 

Jos. Sinclair, Sept. 5, 1Q05, P. & L. E., West street, injur^, wagon struck. 

Eugene Freidman, Sept. 10, 1Q05, P. V. & C, Ann street, killed. 

Geoige Verdo, Sept. 14, 1Q05, P. & L E., Heisel street, seriously injured. 

lohn Zahomaski, Sept. 16, iqoj, P. V. & C, Fifth avenue, killed. 
. mike Metro, Sept. 23, 1Q05, P. V. & C, Heisel street, struck, injured. 

H. F. Botsford & Bro., Oct. 28, 190^, P. & L .£., Amity street, horse killed. 

Peter Kilosky, Nov. i, 1905, P. V. & C, Dickson street, injured, wagon 
demolished. 

Henry Elicker, Nov. 21, 1905, P. V. A C, Amity street, arm cut off. 

Jacob Rushe, Nov. 27, 1905, P. V. & C, Dickson street, killed. 

S. B. White, Dec. 13, 1905, P. V. & C, Munhall, killed. 

Michael Medzyi, Dec. 21. 1905, P. V. & C, McGure street, killed. 

1906 

Mary Sipas, Jan. 9, P. V. & C, Dickson street, leg cut off. 

Three young girls, Feb. 13, P. V. & C, Amity street, narrow escape. 

Thomas Roach, Mar. 31, P. & L. E., Heisel street, fatally injured. Three 
companions had narrow escape. 

Trolley car, Apr. 12, P. & L £., Amity street, fender taken off. 

Three valuable dqgs, Apr. 25, P. V. & C, Amity street, killed. 

Loaded street car, Apr. 27, P. & L. E., Amity street, narrow escape. 

John Milache, May 10, P. &. L. E., West Homestead, seriously hurt. 

Street car. May 14, P. & L. E., Amity street, struck. 

Frank McCarley, June 13, dragged from McGure to Howard works, P. & 
L. E., seriously hurt. 

Street car, July 16, P. & L. E., Amity street, Motorman H. C. Smith and 
G. H. Hall, conductor, seriously injured; three passens^ers cut and bruised. 

Joseph Sogat, July 21, P. & L. E., Heisel street, killed instantly, horse killed, 
wagon wrecked. 

W. H. Gould's team, luly 24, P. & L. E., Amity street, killed. 

Street car, July 30, P. V. & C, Amity street, narrow escape. Two passengers 
injured in jumping from car. 

Thomas Saunders, July 31, P. V. & C, Hays street, killed. 

Bernard Smith, July ^i, P. V. & C, killed. 

Bolo Kovachy, Aug. o, P. & L. E., Dickson street, killed. 

Repair trolley car, Aug. 16, P. & L E., Amity street, narrow escape. 

John Warko, Aug. 15, P. V. & C, Heisel street, pulled from tracks in time. 

1907 

John Such, killed at the McQure street crossing of the P. V. & C, Tuesday 
evening, January 11. 

Robert E. O'Connor, killed on Sixth avenue, Thursday, Jan. 10, P. V. & C. 

Sunday, Feb. 24, Penn & Shady car struck by fast train at Amity street, 25 
lives endangered. 

Monday, Feb. 25, Patrick O'Mara killed at Ammon street crossing, P. V. A C. 

Tuesday, July 9, John Dryer had one horse killed and another injured 
at Heisel street crossing, r. V. & u 

Stephen Sweeney and Al. Woodside, killed Sept. 21, at West street. Two 
horses killed. 

Max Rosen, lost leg at Amity street crossing, Sept. 21. 

Qyde Graham, aged 4 years, struck by train. Badly injured. 

235 



APPENDIX VIll 

SEVEN-DAY LABOR 

ORDERS ISSUED BY UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION OFFICIALS 

RELATIVE TO SUNDAY LABOR 

Resolution with regard to Sunday labor passed by the Finance Committee 
of the United States Steel Corporation at a meeting held on April 23, 1907: 

On motion* it was voted to recommend to all subsidiary companies that 
Sunday labor be reduced to the minimum; that all work (excepting such repair 
work as cannot be done while operating) be suspended on Sunday at sul steel works, 
rolling mills, shops, quarries and docks; that there shall be no construction work, 
loading or unloading of materials. 

It is understood that it is not at present practicable to apply the recom- 
mendation to all Departments, notably the Blast Furnaces, but it is desirable 
that the spirit of the recommendation be observed to the fullest extent within 
reason. 

Copy of tel^ram sent to presidents of constituent companies of United 
States Steel Corporation by Chairman Gary, March 21, iqio: 

Mr. Corey, Mr. Dickson and I have lately given much serious thought to 
the subject-matter of resolution passed by Finance Committee April 23rd, 1907. 
concerning Sundav or Seventh Day Labor. Mr. Corey has written you on the 
subject within a aay or two. The object of this telegram is to say that all of us 
expect and insist that hereafter the spirit of the resolution will be observed and 
carried into effect. There should and must be no unnecessary deviation without 
first taking up the question with our Finance Committee and asking for a change of 
the views of the Committee which proabbly will not under any circumstances be 
secured. I emphasize the fact that there should be at least twenty-four continu- 
ous hours interval during each week in the production of ingots. 

E. H. Gary. 



236 



mi 



APPENDIX IX 

COST OF LIVING IN PITTSBURGH 

A Report of the Committee on Trade and Commerce to the Chamber of 

Commerce of Pittsburgh on the Comparative Cost of Food 

AND House Rent in Pittsburgh and Other Cities 

November i8, 1909 

AT a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce on May 13th, 
1909, your Committee on Trade and Commerce was in- 
L structed to consider the matter of cost of living in the 
city of Pittsburgh in comparison with other cities similarly located. 
Your committee took up the subject assigned to it and had an 
investigation made, but owing to the adjournment for the summer 
season occurring immediately upon this matter being placed in the 
hands of the committee, and the fact that several members of the 
committee were absent from the first fall session, we were unable 
to have our report prepared until this time. 

In accordance with the instructions, your committee had a 
list prepared of standard essentials in food stuffs and a representa- 
tive of the Chamber of Commerce was sent about our city to obtain 
the retail prices for these articles of food in various districts. 
Taking the Diamond Market as a center, visits were made m dis- 
tricts diverging in all directions from the established center. It 
was found that there was a great variation in the prices of these 
commodities without regard to location and in most cases without 
any apparent well-founded commercial reason. In some cases 
we found the prices prevailing at the Diamond Market higher 
than the same articles were sold at some distance away from this 
center. It was also observed that in similarly located sections 
a different range of prices was given, ranging both higher and 
lower. In fact, there does not seem to be anything approaching a 
consistent uniformity of prices on food stuffs asked by our mer- 

237 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

chants for the same quality. There was also a tendency in many 
cases on the part of the merchant, or his representative, to dicker 
with prices in order to make sale. 

After having investigated the conditions in Pittsburg^, a 
representative of the Chamber visited the cities of Buffalo, Qeve- 
land and Qncinnati, and we hereto attach a copy of the items on 
which prices were asked with the average price in these cities. 

A calculation has been made of the cost at which a family 
of five persons could be subsisted for a week in any one of the cities 
under consideration, using a liberal quantity of all the articles of 
food considered, which is as follows : 

Qncinnati |i<>-33 

Buffalo io.qo 

Pittsbufgh 11.88 

Geveland 11.81 

While this gives a reasonable comparison of cost, it is not 
probable that any family of five would use the quantities and the 
same varieties as used in this estimate; the probabilities are that 
in actual use in each case it would show a less aggregate cost. 

Consideration was given to the matter of house rents in the 
cities named. It is apparent from investigation made that the 
rents in the city of Pittsburgh and the city of Cincinnati are about 
the same for like accommodations, while in Buffalo and Qeveland 
the rents would range slightly less. There are some physical con- 
ditions that account for this — the topography of Pittsburgh is very 
irregular and the many heavy grades with rock formation to 
contend with make the cost of construction of buildings necessarily 
higher than in cities located as are Qeveland and Buffalo on almost 
level territory. Furthermore, in Cleveland and Buffalo the ma- 
jority of the houses are constructed of wood, while in Pittsburgh a 
great many of our houses are constructed of more substantial 
material and necessarily more costly, but more durable and 
should cost less to maintain. The increased earning capacity of 
the wage-worker of the Pittsburgh district materially overcomes 
any such difference that may appear. 

A very important factor to be considered in this comparison 
is the earning power of our people. The national government 

238 



APPENDIX IX 

report of wages earned in Pittsburgh is I574 per annum, in Buffalo 
I508, Cleveland I522, and Cincinnati I466. Therefore, the aver- 
age wages earned in Pittsburgh are I52 higher than the highest 
and 1 1 08 higher than the lowest of the cities referred to, which 
makes a liberal offset on any increase that may appear in the cost 
of rents. 

The cost of provisions in Pittsburgh, as compared with other 
cities, is so trifling that it is hardly worth considering. In fact, it 
is apparent to your committee, from the information obtained, 
that a prudent and careful buyer of the necessities will be able to 
purchase what is desired on an average, at Pittsburgh, as low as at 
any of the cities taken in comparison, and the greater earning 
capacity of our wage-earners makes living in Pittsburgh fully as 
advantageous as in any of the cities considered, if not superior. 
This investigation has brought to the knowledge of your committee 
that the average buyer of food stuffs in Pittsburgh, especially 
meats, demands a higher standard of quality than in many other 
locations, which of course has a tendency to increase the cost of 
living. It might be noted that many of the plainer but substantial 
articles of food are offered in Pittsburgh at prices equally as low 
as in any of the places referred to, articles such as Ham, Dried 
Salt Pork, Pickled Pork, Boiling Beef, Cabbage, Onions, Potatoes, 
Molasses, Sugar, Dairy Butter, Coffee, and some other items. 

Your committee is of the opinion that the matter of our 
public markets, in which the sale of perishable food stuffs is con- 
ducted, should have early attention, and better facilities should be 
provided to offer such goods to buyers than now exist, both as to 
improvement of the market buildings we now have, and the estab- 
lishing of others in suitable locations, so that buyers would have an 
opportunity of comparison as to quality and prices offered. There 
is'a tendency on the part of the many dealers in these commodities 
to vary the price on a certain commodity in order to encourage a 
hesitating buyer, which leads your committee to believe that the 
less aggressive buyer pays the excessive prices. City ordinances 
should provide that where food stuffs are offered for sale, especially 
in market buildings provided by the city, plain figure prices should 
be displayed thereon, and if a lower price is accepted on any article, 
that would become the selling price and be so displayed. 

239 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Your committee is of the opinion that the frequently made 
allegations that articles of food stuffs are much higher in Pitts- 
burgh than many other cities are not well-founded. When taken 
as a whole, it is doubtless true that certain articles at particular 
times may be purchased in other cities at lower figures than we 
are accustomed to buying them in Pittsburgh, but as has beoi 
indicated in this report, if buyers will be more careful to inves- 
tigate the quality and to demand fair prices, we feel that our 
merchants handling these goods are in position to furnish like 
goods at as low prices as in similarly located communities in 
this country. 

Referring to the matter of fruits and vegetables, we labor 
under some slight disadvantages in the Pittsburgh District. 
Adjacent to the cities we are using for comparison and many other 
of the great cities of our country, are territories that produce fruit 
and vegetables in large quantities on account of being specially 
adapted to the growing of such articles. From the fact that the 
hills and valleys surrounding Pittsburgh have been so bountifully 
supplied with valuable minerals, oil and gas, the production o( 
these commodities is more profitable to the owners and has driven 
out agricultural pursuits. This, to some extent, puts us far away 
from the growing territory, but with all this, the up-to-date facili- 
ties for transporting these commodities materially offset the advan- 
tages of the close-to-city grown products. There is a lack of 
interest on the part of many of our wage-earners, as compared with 
those of other localities and countries, in utilizing small garden 
plots for the raising of vegetables on their own account. This may 
appear to be a small matter and not worthy of consideration, but 
investigation will show, not only in this country, but in many 
foreign countries, that great results have been obtained for the 
workers of a small garden plot, the labor being furnished at prac- 
tically no cost, being done in leisure hours and producing profitable 
returns for the labor. The work should be encouraged by our 
employers and land owners and such gardens should receive ample 
police protection. Encouragement should be given to the work- 
ingman to have his own garden plot on which he would doubtless 
be able to raise all the vegetables required for his family during the 
growing seasons of this section. This would not only be a saving, 

240 



APPENDIX IX 



SCHEDULE SHOWING QUANTITY OF FOOD ESTIMATED FOR SUB- 
SISTENCE OF FAMILY OF FIVE PERSONS FOR ONE WEEK 



Average price per unit obtained from sisi 


: different inquiries 


during July, 1909, 




in each of the cities compared. 






Pittsburgh 


Buffalo 


Cleveland 


Cincinnati 






Av, 




Av, 




y^V. 




y^V. 




Artidg 


Quan- 


price 


Tofat 


price 


rote/ 


price 


Total 


price 


Total 


wm Www%^9 


tity 


per 


cost 


per 


C05I 


per 


cost 


per 


cost 






unit 
13} 




unit 


14 


untt 




untt 




Cod Fish . . 


I lb. 


'3l 


»4 


i6i 


i6i 


12 


12 


Mackerel 


1 lb. 


M 


^ 


12 


12 


10 


10 


12J 


I2i 


Poultry 


3 lb. 


22 


20 


60 


20* 


61 


20 


60 


Bacon . 


3 lb. 


19 


57 


18 


1?^J 


18J 


55i 


18} 


55i 


Tenderloin . 


6 lb. 


35 


1.50 


I9i 


23J 


«43 


'7f 
91 


«o5f 


Boiling Beef 


4 lb. 


lO 


^ 


9t 


39* 


io| 


P 


37t 


Mutton 


4 lb. 


i7l 


14 


56 


17 


»3t 


i^i 


Pork, pickled 


. 4 lb. 


'I* 


6ii 


14} 


58f 


16 


64 




Ham . 


7 lb. 


16 


112 


16 


112 


16 


113 


i6f 


"5 


Bread . 


12 lb. 


5 


60 


5 


60 


5 


60 


31 


45f 


Flour . 


6 lb. 


4 


24 


3A 


20 


3H 


'? 


3lf 


24 


Lard . 


I lb. 


«5A 


«5A 


»5 


<5 


i6i 


•61 


>3 


13 


Molasses, i Qt. . 


i^lb. 


10 


10 


10 


10 


10 


10 


lO 


10 


Oat Meal . 


1 lb. 


5 


5 


5 


5 


5 


5 


4i 


4 


Butter, Creamer 


y 2 lb. 


32J 


§ 


3ot 


6ii 


32* 


6Ai 


3«t 


Butter, Oleo. 


2 lb. 


19 


21 


42 


19 


38 




37 


^eese. Cream . 


I lb. 


27 


37 


28 


28 


30 


30 


26 


26 


i lb. 


I9§ 


9A 


I9i 


9i 


20i 


lOf 


■2! 


9f 


Beans, Qt. . 


2 lb. 


10 


10 


10 


10 


n* 


"i 


91 


Prunes 


I lb. 


12 


12 


09 


09 


10 


10 


09 


09 


Rice 


I lb. 


09 


09 


08 


08 


08J 


8i 


7 


7 


Potatoes 


30 lb. 


If 


50 


i« 


58 


2A 


64 


I* 


42 


Cabbage 


3 lb. 


5 


«5 


5f 


<7§ 


05 


'5 


05 


>5 


Onions, J Pk. . 


4 lb. 


12 


12 


io| 


io| 


10 


10 


11} 


Hi 


Lettuce, 6 hds. . 


lilb. 


03 


18 


02} 


*5l 


05 


30 


03 


18 


Carrots, 2 bun. . 


ijlb. 


03 


06 


02I 


5* 


02 


04 


1} 


3i 


Tomatoes, 2 Qt. 


6 lb. 


15 


30 


10 


20 


10 


so 


10 


20 


Radishes, 2 bun 


1 lb. 


03 


b6 


02 


04 


02f 


4l 


02 


<M 


Beets, 2 bun. . 


2 lb. 


03 


06 


02t 


i» 


02 


S 


01 


02 


Cucumbers, two 


I lb. 


:it 


10 


<M 


03 


02 


04 


Coffee . 


3 lb. 


55i 


i7t 


5ii 


20 


60 


1 


49i 


Sugar . 

Milk. 7 Qts. . 


5 lb. 


$1 


291 


5i 


27i 


05S 


28 


27I 


I7i lb. 


•^ 


43 


07 


49 


06} 


46} 


56 


Tea 


Jib. 


56» 


28} 


45 


22J 


58 


29 


5< 


25i 


Vinegar, | Gal. . 


1 lb. 


35 


3i 


21 


2t 


25 


3i 


21* 


2j 






11.88 




10.90 




11.81 




10.33 



16 



241 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

but would furnish fresher and better qualities than are ordinarily 
obtained under the present system by which he is supplied. 

Committee on Trade and Commerce 

(Signed) ALBERT J. LOGAN, Chairman* 

E. A. KITZMILLER« Vice-Chainnan, 

ROBT. GARLAND. 

WM. CAMPBELL. 

MARCUS RAUH. 

W. A. ROBERTS. 

W. L. HIRSCH. 



242 



APPENDIX X 

RATINGS ON MEN EMPLOYED IN IRON AND STEEL 
INDUSTRY, BY PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE COM- 

PANY OF AMERICA 

[Excerpts from Current Rate Book] 

38. Ratings an Account of Occupation have been divided into three general 
classes, and a separate set of premium rates is provided for each class. 

The special rating provides for that class whose occupation makes it neces- 
sary to charge a slightly higher rate than the regular ordinary rate. 

The intermediate rating is the r^ular Intermediate rate on pages 95 to 97, 
and covers that class where the occupation is attended by some hazard. 

The hazardous rating is higher than the Intermediate rate, and covers all 
the extra hazardous risks. Age 55 nearest birthday is the highest age for which 
these rates are quoted. 

The special and hazardous tables are found on pages 148 and 149. 

Applications for I500 where the occupation is rated will be issued only at 
Intermediate rates. Applicants belonging in the hazardous class must apply for 
1 1 ,000 or more. 

Where the rating is " Intermediate only/' I500 policies, or multiples thereof 
up to 11,500, will only be issued. 

The rqg^ular rate charged to all applicants at any given age is the basis, to 
which an addition is made of an average of I3.30 per 1 1,000 of insurance for Special 
rating, I6.39 for Intermediate, and 1 1 3.33 for Hazardous rating, in the case of whole 
life policies. By reference to the following illustration you will be able to determine 
what the charge would be for any group at the ages stated: 

IV belt Life Policy — 1 1,000 Insurance 



Age 


Regular 
RaU 


Special 
Rate 


Intermediate 
RaU 


Hazardous 
RaU 


30 

30 
40 

50 


. I14.96 
19.08 
36.09 

. 38.83 


1 16.34 
31.34 
39.90 
44.79 


*i7.52 
33.60 

33.70 
50.74 


I35.36 
31.63 
40.10 

54.50 



Iron and Stbel Industry. 

Superintendents and Foremen in all departments not exposed to extreme 
heat — No rating. 

Blast Furnace Employes — Hazardous, 

Puddlers and Cupola Tenders — Hazardous. 

Heaters and Melters — IntermediaU. 

Rollers and Roll Tenders not exposed to considerable heat — Special, 

Bessemer Converting Department, except Blowers — Hazardous. 

Blowers, Bessemer Department — Specie. 

Open Hearth Furnaces — Hazardous. 

Char^png Machine Operators — IntermediaU. 

Crucible Steel Manufacture — Hazardous. 

243 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Tube Mill Employes — InUrwudiaU, 

Crane and Hoist Men, outdoor — SficuH, 

Crane and Hoist Men, indoor — lnUrmediaU, 

Gas Producers — InUfwudiaU, 

Ladle Men — InUfwudiaU. 

Lever Men, not exposed to heat — Special, 

Lever Men, exposed to considerable heat — IniermidiaU, 

Shear Men, not exposed to heat — Special. 

Shear Men, exposed to considerable heat — IniermediaU, 

Molders, pit and floor — InUmudiaU. 

Molders, bench — No rating. 

All other employees expo^d to considerable heat — Hazardous, 

All other employees exposed to moderate heat — IniermediaU. 

All other employees not exposed to heat — Special, 



244 



APPENDIX XI 

CARNEGIE RELIEF FUND 

Extract from Letter of Mr. Andrew Carnegie Relative to Relief Fund. 

New York, N. Y., March 12, 1901. 
To the President and Board of Directors, 

The Carnegie Company, 

Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Gentlemen: — Mr. Robert A. Franks, my cashier, will hand over to you, 
upon your acceptance of the trust. Four Million Dollars (|4,ooo,ooo) of The Car- 
negie Company bonds, in trust for the following purposes: 

The income of the Four Million Dollars (|4,ooo,ooo) is to be applied: 

I St. To provide for employees of The Cam^e Company, in all its works, 
mines, railways, shops, etc., injured in its service, andfor those dependent upon such 
employees as are killed. 

snd. To provide small pensions or aids to such employees as after lon^ and 
creditable service, through exceptional circumstances, need such help in their old 
age, and who make a ^ood use of it. 

3rd. This fund is not intended to be used as a substitute for what the Com- 
pany has been in the habit of doing in such cases — ^far from it — ^it is intended to ffo 
still further and give to the injured or their families, or to employees who are needy 
in old age, through no fault of their own, some provision against want as long as 
needed, or until young children can become self-supporting. 

4th. A report is to be made at the end of each year, giving an account of the 
fund and its distribution, and published in two papers in Pittsburgh, and copies 
posted freely at the several works, that every employee may know what is being 
done. Publicity in this matter will, I am sure, have a beneficial effect. 

5th. 1 make this first use of surplus wealth upon retiring from business as 
an acknowledgement of the deep debt which I owe to the workmen who have con- 
tributed so greatly to my success. 

(Signed) ANDREW CARNEGIE. 

Note. — On April ist, 1903, The Carnegie Company was succeeded by Car- 
negie Steel Company. 

ACCEPTANCE OF TRUST 

Extract from minutes of meeting of the Board of Directors of The Carnegie 
Company held at the offices of this Company, Pittsburgh, Pa., on March soth, 1901. 

"Whereas, Mr. Andrew Carnegie has generously offered to this Company 
Four Million Dollars (t4,ooo,ooo) in bonds of The Carnegie Company, to be held in 
trust and the income therefrom applied to the purposes set forth in his letter of 
March 12th, igoi, provided this Company accept the trust; therefore. 

245 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

"Risohid, That the Board of Directors of The Carnegie Company hereby 
accepts the trust, so tendered by Mr. Carnegie, and agrees to hold said bonds in 
trust, and to apply the income therefrom to the purposes and in accordance with the 
terms and conditions set forth in his letter of March 1 3th, 1901 : 

"Resolved, Further, That the Secretary is directed to communicate this ac- 
tion of the Board to Mr. Carnegie, accompanied with a copy of these resolutions, 
expressing our deep appreciation for his munificent sift for the welfare of the em- 
ployees of this Company, and reciprocating the kinoiy expressions of his personal 
interest in those with whom he has been so long associated, though no words can 
adequately express our feelings of love, loyalty, admiration, and inspiration, which 
have been so much a part of our service for him." 

GENERAL NOTICE 

Mr. Andrew Carnegie having munificently tendered to the Board of Direc- 
tors of The Carnegie Company, Four Million Dollars (t4.ooo,ooo), the income there- 
from to be applied, as set forth in his letter of March 12th, 1 go 1, in the establish- 
ment of a Relief Fund, and the trust having been accepted by the said Board of 
Directors, as recited in the foregoing paragraphs, the "Andrew Cam«ie Relief 
Fund" was created for the purpose of carrying out the intent of Mr. Carnegie's 
benefaction, and became effective January ist, IQ02. 

On January ist, 1905, the name of the Fund was changed to Carnegie Relief 
Fund. 

Employees of Carnegie Steel Company and its constituent Companies, as 
given below, will participate in this Fund in accordance with the prescribed Regula- 
tions: 

Carnegie Steel Company. 
Carnegie Natural Gas Company. 
Pittsbuii^h Limestone Company, Limited. 
H. C Fnck Coke Company. 
Oliver Iron Mining Company. 
Bessemer A Lake Erie Railroad Company. 
Union Railroad Company. 
Pittsburgh Steamship Compaiiy. 
Pittsburgh & Conneaut Dock (Company. 
Union Supply Company. 
Min^o Coal Company. 
National Mining Company. 

NOTICE 

On May 14th, 1906, (after the printing of this edition of the Regulations), a 
body known as the " Board of Trustees of Cam^e Relief and Library Fund," ap- 
pointed by the Court of Common Pleas, No. 2, of AU^heny County, Pennsylvania, 
succeedeo the Board of Directors of Carnegie Steel Company as trustees of the 
Carnegie Relief Fund. The Board of Trustees of Carnegie Relief and Library 
Fund adopted, by resolution, the Regulations governing the Carnegie Relief Fund 
as they had been adopted by the Board of Directors cc Carnegie Steel Company 
and as they appear in the following pages, and appointed the same persons to be 
members or the Advisory Board as named on the opposite page. 

Wherever in these Regulations, therefore, the terms "President of Carnegie 
Steel Company" and "Board of Directors of Carnegie Steel Company" appear, 
they will be understood to mean " President of Board of Trustees of (^megie Kelicf 
and Library Fund" and " Board of Trustees of Carnegie Relief and Library Fund.* 
respectively. 

246 



APPENDIX XI 



DATA AS TO BENEFICIARIES OF CARNEGIE RELIEF FUND AMONG 

EMPLOYEES OF HOMESTEAD WORKS 

(a) Total payments on account of the deaths of em- 
ployees of Homestead Works from January i, 1902, 
to December 31, 1909, inclusive .... $74,230.00 

Total death benefit payments to beneficiaries residing 
in Europe, and in the United States in places other 
than Homestead 24,700.00 

Total death benefit payments to beneficiaries residing 

in Homestead 949»530.oo 

ib) Total death benefit payments in 1907 paid to account 

of Homestead Works 1 11,398.00 

Total death benefit payments in 1907 to beneficiaries 

residing outside of Homestead .... 5,000.00 

Total death benefit payments to beneficiaries residing 

in Homestead 16,398.00 

(c) New cases of accidental injuries at Homestead Works 

reported in 1907 3 

(d) Acciaent benefits paid to account of 3 cases reported 

in 1907 I623.00 

(e) Number of families in Homestead to whom Accident - 

Benefits were paid in 1907 6 amount 12,218.95 

Number of families outside Homestead to whom Acci- 
dent Benefits were paid in 1907 . . . . i " 365.00 

12,583.95 

Number of families in Homestead to whom Death 

Benefits were paid in 1907 30 " $6,398.00 

Number of families outside Homestead to whom 

Death Benefits were paid in 1907 . . . 8 " 5,000.00 

111,398.00 

Number of families in Homestead to whom Pension 

Allowances were paid in 1907 .21 " $2,286.10 

Number of families outside Homestead to whom Pen- 
sion Allowances were paid in 1907 -15 " 2,470.10 

$4»756>ao 

Total Accident Benefits paid to account of 

Homestead Works .... $79*759.91 

Total Death Benefits oaid to account of 

Homestead Works .... 74,230.00 

Total Pension Allowances paid to account 

of Homestead Works 30,540.75 

$184,530.66 



247 



homestead: the households of a mill town 



PENSIONERS, CARNEGIE RELIEF FUND, HOMESTEAD. 1907 



Case 

Num- 
her 


l^orks 


Last 
Occupation 


Relir 
men 


0/ Lenm 


Avtfoge 
^ Earnings 


amce 


I 


Homestead Works 


janitor 
Laborer 


75yeJ 


irs 23 ye; 


irs ¥40.^0 


»^30 


2 








64 ' 


'5 ; 


3775 


565 


3 








i4 


P * 


»9 


; 3730 


7.10 


4 








%• 


60 ' 


20 ' 


: % 


10.90 


1 








Sta. Engr. 
Laborer 


60 ' 
64 ' 


: ?l : 


IJ.25 
8.35 


I 








<< 


61 ' 


18 ' 


' 40.80 


7.35 








« 


^ ' 


* 21 ' 


38.35 


8.05 


9 








(< 


69 ' 


20 ' 


: U 


7.60 


lO 








(« 


63 ' 


: ^ ' 


15.05 


II 








Qerk 


70 • 


73.60 


13.35 


12 








I St Pitman 


5« ' 


21 


' 70.22 


■4-75 


13 








Heater 


61 • 


17 • 


71.86 


I2.30 


14 








Blacksmith 


52 ' 


21 ' 


81.72 


17.15 


15 








Toolman 


63 ; 


17 • 


71.00 


12.00 


16 








Laborer 




21 


34.58 


7.25 


\i 










66 ' 


26 * 
' 22 ' 


60.50 
40.00 


'i.i^ 


19 








« 


2^ ' 


' 21 ' 


41.08 


8.65 


20 








i( 


63 ' 


27 • 


3642 


9-85 


21 


Duquesne Works 


Blacksmith 


61 ' 


25 • 


72.07 


18.00 



248 



APPENDIX XII 

ACCIDENT RELIEF PLAN OF THE UNITED STATES 

STEEL CORPORATION* 
MAY 1, 1910 

THE United States Steel Corporation has announced a plan 
for relief of men injured and the families of men killed in 
work accidents. The plan is a distinct advance over any 
existing system of relief carried out under any of the constituent 
companies; it puts all the employes of the biggest payroll in 
America — 225,000 men — on the same footing, and it establishes 
a system which can be adjusted to the new legislation that will 
probably be enacted in the next ten years in the different states 
in which the corporation operates. 

In more ways than one, then, the new plan, which will go 
into effect May i for an experimental year, is a step in advance. 
The exact provisions are published below. While some of them 
do not measure up to the proposals made by the various state 
commissions which have been considering the subject, many of 
them are a radical departure from contemporary practice, and as 
a voluntary act show both foresight and liberality. The plan 
disregards the idea of negligence entirely and may be said to recog- 
nize that a share of the income loss due to work-accidents should 
be a charge on the industry; it covers hazardous and non-danger- 
ous employments alike; it puts the entire cost of the plan on 
the business without any contribution whatsoever from the men. 
No relief will be paid if suit is brought. It naturally requires a 
release from legal liability upon payment of the relief, but it avoids 
the involved and questionable relationships created by such relief 
associations as, for instance, the Pennsylvania Railroad Relief 
Department, to which, like a mutual insurance association, the 

* Reprinted from The Survey, April 23, iqio. 

249 



r 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

employes pay dues, and from which they can receive no benefits 
from their dues until they sign a paper releasing the company from 
any legal liability. 

The Steel Corporation makes a point in its announcement 
that the payments it proposes are "for relief and not as compensa- 
tion." "There can be no real compensation for permanent in- 
juries, and the notion of compensation is necessarily based on 
legal liability, which is entirely disregarded in this plan as all men 
are to receive the relief, even though there be no legal liability to 
pay them anything. . . ." In line with this position, there 
are no death benefits for single men and extremely low disability 
benefits for them. Large numbers of immigrant laborers fall in 
this class. Moreover, in death cases the wording of paragraph 24 
specifies that relief will be granted "married men living with their 
families." This would exclude the non-resident families of aliens 
unless the manager of the relief sees fit to exercise his discretionary 
power in their favor. But it is understood that wide latitude has 
been left the company managers in cases where single men have 
old people or others demonstrably dependent upon them. The 
death benefit for a married man is eighteen months' wages, and 
this is increased ten per cent for every child under sixteen; an 
adjustment of relief to need which is noteworthy. The plan in- 
cludes medical and hospital treatment. It is a statement of a 
consistent policy which will give the man who goes to his work in 
the morning a fair knowledge as to what will happen in case he 
is killed. Much of the ill name of claim departments in all in- 
dustries in years past has been due to the incentive to claim agents 
to "make a good showing" by keeping down awards. Here 
definite standards are set. 

The most serious question raised by a first reading of the 
prospectus of the plan is as to the sufficiency of the benefits pro- 
vided. In comparison with the three years' wages, which is the 
death benefit under the English system, and the four years' wages 
proposed by the New York State Commission, the Steel Corpora- 
tion announces eighteen months' wages for a married man in 
case of death. By a sliding scale this is increased with an in- 
creased number of children and with length of service in the com- 
pany. Yet the family of an employe of ten years' standing with 

250 



APPENDIX XII 

five children would still get but two and one-half years' wages. 
If such a man were temporarily disabled, however, he would get 
eighty-five per cent of his weekly wages as against the flat rate of 
fifty per cent for all disabled men under the New York bill. The 
highest injury benefit specified in the Steel Corporation's announce- 
ment is for the loss of an arm — eighteen months' wages. The 
highest benefit for permanent disability under the proposed New 
York state law is half wages for eight years; that under the Eng- 
lish law is half wages for life. But here again the discretion of the 
company managers enters in, and in the case of loss of both limbs 
or other more complete permanent disability, larger amounts 
would doubtless be paid. At several important points, therefore, 
the plan is flexible and results will be dependent upon the spirit 
in which the company managers carry out its provisions. It 
would be impossible to forecast these practical workings of the 
plan until after it has had at least the year's trial and until detailed 
statements are available as to the nature of injuries and actual 
benefits paid. The minimum provisions for death in the case of 
married men are in themselves higher than were the average bene- 
fits paid by any large employer in the steel district the year of the 
Pittsburgh Survey. 

Nor is it likely that the Steel Corporation will know either the 
cost of the new policy or its acceptability to its employes earlier 
than after such a probationary year. The Corporation has been 
able in the past to settle most cases out of court, yet the new plan 
may effect economies in gathering legal evidence, etc. Such a 
large plan of relief would scarcely have been attempted were it 
not for the energetic measures to lessen accidents which have been 
carried out in the plants of the constituent companies during the 
last two years. From the managers' standpoint, the plan has 
merit in its probable attraction to the men — a considerable point 
in keeping intact a non-union working force. From the public 
standpoint it is widely significant that the operating corporation, 
which has probably the largest accident experience in America 
upon which to base its plan, and which has spent a million dollars 
a year on accident payments in the past, should adopt a plan which 
it describes as "similar in principle to the German and other foreign 
laws and to recommendations which have been made by employers' 

251 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

liability commissions in New York and other states since our woric 
upon this plan was begun (December, 1908)." 

The plan was put into operation tentatively by the National 
Tube Company last December. A further plan for the payment of 
pensions to disabled and superannuated employes is under con- 
sideration. 

Following is the plan in full : 

ACCIDENT RELIEF 

1 . This plan of relief is a purely voluntary provision made by the company 
for the benefit of employes injured and the families of employes killed in the service 
of the company and constitutes no contract and confers no right of action. The 
entire amount of money required to carry out the plan will be provided by the com- 
pany with no contribution whatsoever from the employes. 

2. Where the word "manager" appears in this plan of relief it means that 
oflficial of the company who has charge of this relief for his company. 

3. The decision of the manager of this relief shall be final with respect to all 
questions arising under this plan of relief, and he shall have full discretionary power 
in paying relief to meet any conditions which may arise and may not be covered by 
this statement. 

4. The privilege of this relief will take effect as soon as an employe enters the 
service of the company, will continue so long as the plan remains in operation dur- 
ing such service, and will terminate when he leaves the service. 

5. Payment of this relief will be made only for disablement which has been 
caused solely by accidents to employes during and in direct and proper connection 
with the performance of duties to which the employes are assigned in the service of 
the company, or which they are directed to perform by proper authority, or from 
accidents which occur in voluntarily protecting the company's property or interests. 
Relief will not be paid unless investigation of the causes and circumstances of the 
injury show that it was accidentally inflicted and that it renders the employe un- 
able to perform his duties in the service of the company or in any other occupation. 

6. No relief will be paid for the first ten days of disablement nor for a period 
longer than fifty-two weeks. 

7. No employe will be entitled to receive relief except for the time durixig 
which the surgeon certifies that he is unable to follow his usual or any other occupa- 
tion. 

8. Employes will not be entitled to receive disablement relief for any time 
for which wages are paid them. 

9. The company will provide treatment by surgeons and hospitals of its 
selection. 

10. The company will furnish artificial limbs and trusses in cases where these 
are needed. 

11. All men injured in the service of the company must obey the surgeon's 
instructions in reporting for examination, using the remedies and following the 

252 



APPENDIX XII 

treatment prescribed, and going to the hospital if directed. No relief will be paid 
unless these instructions are obeyed. All employes who are disabled but not con- 
fined to the house must report in person at the surgeon's oflfice, from time to time, 
as reasonably requested, and must keep any other appointments made by the 
surgeon. 

12. All employes who wish, while disabled, to go away from their usual 
place of residence, must first arrange with their employing officer and with the 
surgeon in charge as to the absence and the evidence of continued disablement to 
be furnished. Such employes must report as often and in such manner as may be 
required of them. 

13. No relief will be paid to any employe or his family if suit is brought 
against the company. In no case whatsoever will the company deal with an at- 
torney or with anyone except the injured man or some member of his family in the 
matter of relief to be paid under this plan, because it is part of the plan that the 
whole amount paid shall be received by the employe and his family. 

14. No relief will be paid for injuries caused or contributed to by the in- 
toxication of the employe injured or his use of stimulants or narcotics or his taking 
part in any illegal or immoral acts. 

15. All employes of the company who accept and receive any of this relief 
will be required to sign a release to the company. 

TEMPORARY DISABLEMENT 

16. Under the terms and conditions stated here, employes shall be entitled 
to the following temporary disablement relief (but no relief will be paid for the first 
ten days nor for longer than fifty-two weeks, as stated in paragraph six) : 

Single Men : Single men who have been five years or less in the service of the 
company shall receive thirty-five per cent of the daily wages they were receiving 
at the time of the accident. Single men of more than five years' service shall re- 
ceive an additional two per cent for each year of service over five years. But in 
no case shall single men receive more than fi.^o per day. 

Married Men: Married men living with their families who have been in the 
service of the company five years or less shall receive fifty per cent of the daily wages 
they were receiving at the time of the accident. For each additional year of 
service above five years two per cent shall be added to the relief. For each child 
under sixteen years five per cent shall be added to the relief. But in no case shall 
this relief exceed two dollars per day for married men. 

PERMANENT DISABLEMENT 

17. The amount of relief which will be paid to employes who have sustained 
some permanent disablement, such as the loss of an arm or leg. will depend upon 
the extent to which such disablement renders it difficult for them to obtain employ- 
ment. The kinds of disablement that may occur and the extent to which each 
interferes with employment differ so greatly that it is impossible to provide any 
adequate schedule of relief which will be paid in all cases of permanent disablement. 
The amounts which will be paid in cases not specifically mentioned here must of 

253 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

necessity be left to the discretion of the manager; but it is the intentioo of the 
company that this discretion shall be so exercised in all cases as to afford substantial 
relief corresponding as far as possible with the amounts stated below, considering 
the special circumstances of each case and the character and extent of the injury. 

(a) For the loss of a hand, twelve months' wages. 

(b) For the loss of arm, eighteen months' wages. 

(c) For the loss of a foot, nine months' wages. 

(d) For the loss of a leg, twelve months' wages. 

(e) For the loss of one eye, six months' wages. 

DEATH 

18. Relief for the families of employes killed in accidents which happen in 
the work of the company will be paid only where the death of the employe is shown 
to have resulted from an accident (or sunstroke or heat exhaustion) in the work of 
the company during and in direct and proper connection with the performance of 
duties to which the employe had been assigned in the service of the company or 
which he had been directed to perform by proper authority, or from accidents which 
occur in voluntarily protecting the company's property or interests. 

19. Death relief will be paid as soon as possible after the required proof of 
cause of death is obtained and a satisfactory release given. 

20. The company will pay reasonable funeral expenses, not to exceed f 100. 

a I. No relief will be paid for death caused or contributed to by the intoxi- 
cation of the employe killed or his use of stimulants or narcotics or his taking part 
in any illegal or immoral acts. 

33. No relief will be paid to the family of any employe if suit is brought 
against the company. 

33. In no case will this relief be paid until the receipt by the company of a 
satisfactory release properly executed. 

34. Under the terms and conditions stated here, the widows and children of 
the employes killed in accidents which happen in the work of the company shall be 
entitled to the following death relief: 

In the case of married men living with their families, who have been in the 
service of the company five (5) years or less and leave widows or children under six- 
teen (16) years of age, the company will pay relief to an amount equal to eighteen 
months' wages of the deceased employe. For each additional year of service above 
five years, three per cent shall be added to this relief. For each child under sixteen 
(16) years, ten per cent shall be added to this relief. 

But in no case shall this death relief exceed three thousand dollars (13,000.00). 

36. This plan of relief will be in operation for only one year from May 1, 
1910. If the plan meets with success, it is hoped that some similar plan may be 
put in operation for succeeding years. 



254 



APPENDIX XIII 

THE CARNEGIE LIBRARY, HOMESTEAD 

By W. F. STEVENS, Librarian 

THE Girnegie Library of Homestead was founded and en- 
dowed by Andrew Gimegie in 1898. The steel mills that 
contributed most toward Mr. Carnegie's experience and 
success as an iron-master were located at Homestead, Braddock 
and Duquesne, Pennsylvania. To show his good will toward the 
people who had worked with him during the more aggressive period 
of his career as a manufacturer, he conceived the idea of giving 
them an institution that would contribute toward the essential 
needs of all the people all the time. The composite nature of the 
mill town libraries is well outlined in Mr. Carnegie's dedicatory 
address as quoted in the following form in the Homestead 
Library reports : 

THE PURPOSE 

The three natures in the make-up of every human being that must be de- 
veloped in order that the Divine purpose may be realized, are the mental, moral 
and physical. In founding this institution Mr. Cam^e discerned these necessities 
and provided a building and funds to accomplish this end. 

THE LIBRARY 

"The library filled with the most precious legacy the past 
can bequeath to the present — a collection of good books." 

To educate the people of this community by — 
Supplying readable literature to the masses of the people. 
Making provision for the student. 
Encouraging societies formed for self culture. 
Supplementing the work of the public schools. 

255 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

THE CLUB 

"How a man spends his time at work may be taken for 
granted^ but how he spends his hours of recreation is really the 
key of his progress in all the virtues." 

To provide a place where one may occupy his time — 

In systematic physical development. 

In amateur athletics. 

In healthful games and profitable intercourse. 

EDUCATIONAL 

"Here you will have your educational classes. In music 
you have a great field." 

To conduct classes 

Where students may be directed in their studies by competent instructors. 

IfUSIC BALL 

"Here you will have your entertainments and meetings for 
educational and philanthropic purposes." 

To contribute toward the ethical and moral spirit of the community by 
providing a meeting place for — 

Free musicales and entertainments. 
A suitable hall for public gatherings. 

"The best return to the giver is to make a proper and steady 
use of all which is sought here to place within their reach." 

Mr. Carnegie's first library gift was to Braddock, Pennsyl- 
vania, in 1889. The library at Duquesne was opened in 1904. 
These three libraries were endowed by the founder with one million 
dollars, which produces an income of fifty thousand dollars an- 
nually. The preference in the distribution of this income is based 
upon the age of the respective institutions. The care of this fund 
is in the hands of a board of trustees composed of officials of the 
Gunegie Steel Company. The disposition of the income is by the 
separate boards of directors of the three different libraries. These 
boards are selected mostly from the officials and employes in the 
mills. The board of directors of the Homestead library is com- 
posed of Azor R. Hunt, general superintendent of the Homestead 
Steel Works, Allan A. Corey, assistant general superintendent, 

256 



APPENDIX XIII 

Ralph W. Watson, second assistant general superintendent, Isaac 
L. Irwin, chief clerk of the Homestead Steel Works, John Bell, 
metallurgist, Thomas R. Davies, superintendent of re-heating 
furnaces. Rev. John J. Bullion, pastor St. Mary's Roman Catholic 
Church, and Rev. Nathan D. Hynson, pastor First Presbyterian 
Church. 

The old catechetical idea that the chief end of man was to 
"glorify God and to enjoy Him forever" is not at variance with 
the idea that the purpose of life is to enjoy all that is good and 
beautiful. To accomplish this great end we are given intellects 
to guide us, bodies to execute the will of the mind, and a moral 
nature to guard both. To develop these three functions is the 
purpose of educational institutions, religious organizations, the 
exercise of daily life, and the directed physical culture of athletic 
associations and physical development. The founder of this in- 
stitution did not aim to duplicate the work of the organizations 
that have this same motive, but to supplement them. 

How well our own library has contributed toward the general 
good of the community may be seen from these figures relating to 
its usefulness for 1909: 

In the library the circulation of books was 245,800. This is 
equivalent to circulating the total of 37,000 volumes in the library 
8.5 times, or 10 books for every man, woman and child in this com- 
munity, or 21 volumes for every reader. Of this circulation 77,500 
was at the adult desk; 5 1,600 at the juvenile desk; 1 16,600 in the 
schools, 90,000 of which is supplementary reading; the remaining 
26,600 at stations located in the schools throughout the township. 
The total attendance was 1 33,700. 

The athletic department reports an average membership of 
1,170 per month or 3,705 different members for the year. This, 
in all probability, places the Homestead Carnegie Library Gub in 
the lead among organizations of its kind in western Pennsylvania. 
The total attendance was 97,750. The gymnasium shows an 
attendance of 21,000 by 1,043 members in classes. Basket ball 
holds its own with 30 teams with a membership of 270. There are 
at least ten teams not belonging to the club, making a total of 40 
teams credited to this community. While basket ball seems very 
prominent, it is conducted as a secondary exercise. The classes 
17 257 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

that occupy first place are those for men, women, misses, girls, 
boys, with special classes for working boys. There are also special 
classes in wrestling, fencing and boxing, and many hours each week 
are given to individual work. Seventy-three physical examina- 
tions were given. The man, girl and boy that shows the best 
physical progress is given a valuable prize. Prizes were given in 
different branches of athletics amounting in value to over f 250. 
There were i ,838 games bowled in the alleys. Eight teams con- 
tested in the league games. 

The natatorium includes a swimming pool with a capacity of 
100,000 gallons, 20 bath tubs and 8 showers. Swimming classes 
are conducted for boys, girls and women. Out of a membership 
of 864 boys, fully 700 have been taught to swim. If the old adage 
that "cleanlinesss is next to godliness" be true, then it must be 
admitted that the natatorium does a righteous business. The 
total number of baths was 69,570. This is 19 baths for each mem- 
ber for the year or one bath every three weeks; so there is still 
room for improvement. In the billiard and pool room 60,000 games 
were played at no extra expense to the members. 

The music hall was used more than ever before in a single 
year, the total attendance being 31,600. The several musical 
organizations give free concerts from time to time. We are taught 
to believe that Heaven is full of music; then, who can estimate the 
good coming from these numerous concerts that have lifted many 
for the time being above the cares and sorrows of this mundane 
sphere. 

Besides the concerts by the several musical organizations, 
the library organist gives free recitals that are well attended. 
The music hall is used also for the high school commencements 
and plays, memorials, minstrel shows by local organizations, 
dramas, and lecture course. A course of lectures was given after 
the manner of the university extension lectures by professors from 
the Carnegie Technical Schools. There were thirteen lectures 
with an attendance of 900. The use of the hall is granted free to 
all religious, patriotic, literary and musical events at which no 
admission is charged. Other affairs pay a nominal rate of f 1 5 to 
I25, including the use of the organ, piano and the services of the 
ushers. 

258 



i> Entkance, Cakijecie Libraky, Hoxestead 



APPENDIX XIII 

The value of the library in meeting the needs of the people is 
no better shown than in the educational department. 

Knowledge is of two kinds, the kind you know and the kind 

you know where to find. The teacher's duty is to lead the scholar 

in search of the former, and the librarian's office to conduct the 

reader in search of the latter. The ultimate aim is the same; 

hence the work of the teacher and librarian go hand in hand. If it 

is proper for the library to furnish books for the people, it is right 

that they should be good books. If the library has the right to 

control the character of the reading, it has a right to direct the 

reader to the desired information which supplements the work of 

the teacher. The educational department is but the outgrowth of 

this idea. As the work in this instance must necessarily be 

limited, it is confined largely to studies of practical use to the 

students in their daily work. 

In what are designated as scientific and literary classes, dur- 
ing this season there were 187 students. The attendance was 
2,887. There were in all 55 students enrolled in the mechanical 
drawing class. The attendance was 1,136. Eighteen of these 
pupils attended 75 per cent of the possible sessions. In the com- 
mon branch class, where grammar, arithmetic, spelling ajid history 
were taught, the enrollment was 54 and the attendance 790. In 
the higher branch class, where trigonometry, geometry, algebra, 
physics, higher arithmetic, and beginning Latin were taught, the 
enrollment was 23 and attendance 293. The metallurgy class 
consisted of ten lectures by steel works officials. The class for 
foreigners had an enrollment of 24, and an attendance of 386. 
Twenty-one students were enrolled in the penmanship class, which 
had an attendance of 230. 

The interest in the musical department is equally gratifying. 
The band has a membership of 35 with an attendance for the year 
of 1,500. Free concerts were given in the Music Hall with an 
attendance of 2,100. Many more concerts were given in the band 
stand in the park in front of the library to audiences of equal size. 
The Junior Orchestra has had during the winter an enrollment of 
31 and an attendance of 673. This orchestra has given free con- 
certs with an attendance of 1,750. The S3anphony Orchestra 
composed of 25 members did excellent advance work and con- 

259 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

tributed its share toward entertaining the public. The Qiildren's 
Qiorus with a membership of 1 25 and an attendance of 1 ,300 doses 
its season with a grand concert. The Mandolin and Guitar Qub 
with 25 members is credited with its share of success. The Male 
Qiorus, which is composed of 30 members, is an attraction at home 
and has won honors abroad at the national eisteddfods. 

The total enrollment in all classes was 388, with an attendance 
of 6,437. 

The total attendance in the four departments of the library 
was 274,300, an average gain of 17.5 per cent. 

USE OF THE LIBRARY BY FOREIGNERS 

Homestead has a population of 25,000, forty per cent of 
which may be classified as foreign. The foreigners are attracted 
to this community by the Homestead steel works, which employ 
10,000 men, one-half of whom are foreign bom. The Carnegie 
Library aims to benefit this population, intellectually, physically, 
and morally. For this purpose the privileges of library, night 
school, athletic club, and music hall are granted to all classes of 
people alike; hence, it may be said that no special work is con- 
ducted in the interest of the foreigners. This class of citizens is, 
however, reached in more ways than one. 

In the library a collection of Lithuanian books is provided 
for the Lithuanians, the male portion of whom compose a large 
part of the laboring class in the mills. This collection was loaned 
to a society of the Lithuanian church and was conducted as a 
station for some time and with some degree of success. 

A collection of books by Catholic authors is very well used. 
It is, however, difficult to determine what percentage of the read- 
ers might be classed as foreigners. A catalogue of this collection was 
distributed in the parochial schools. Other collections in French, 
German, and Italian are used freely. The assistant librarian 
speaks these languages and is instrumental in creating and main- 
taining interest in the books. A station is conducted by a mission 
in the "foreign" ward. This collection is composed largely of 
well-worn books that are not expected to be returned. 

It can hardly be expected that the library will have a marked 

260 



APPENDIX XIII 

influence on the "grown ups" among the foreigners, but the in- 
fluence over the children is most gratifying. In certain cases 
'where the families were visited it was ascertained that the fathers 
and mothers listened eagerly to their children as they read aloud 
from the library books. This fact is interesting and becomes a 
hopeful sign when it is known that these children read mostly 
fairy tales, religious books, such as the life of Christ in one syllable, 
and United States history. It is safe to say that the reading of 
fiction by foreign children is less than the average. 

In the night school classes are conducted for the foreigners 
where they may learn English and the common branches. The 
talent in this class is so varied that most of the instruction has to 
be individual. One of the students is forty years of age and when 
he began did not know his a b c's. In three months he could 
read as well as a second grade pupil in the public schools. By the 
side of the forty-year-old pupil sat an orphan boy ten years old 
who was adopted by a poor widow. The boy delivered milk 
during the day and attended night school two nights each week. 
Some of the students come year after year; others drop out in a 
few weeks. This is the experience with one-half of the night 
school students. Two years ago the class for foreigners was com- 
posed almost entirely of Transylvanians. In their own language 
they were well educated, and they came to the library for the Eng- 
lish only. However contradictory it may seem, our best teachers 
for foreigners speak only the English language. 

In the public and parochial schools, the library is able to 
benefit the foreigners by furnishing supplementary reading. In 
the second ward, the primary room may begin the term with fifty 
pupils, not half a dozen of whom can speak English. By the time 
these pupils are in the second grade they are reading library books 
at least two days each week. They are taught that it is a privi- 
lege to use the library books. The theory is that the text-book is 
of use in teaching the mechanics of reading; that is, in teaching 
how to read. The supplementary reading is encouraged because 
it is interesting first, and instructive second. It is usually much 
easier reading than the text-book; hence, is read without the usual 
effort in pronunciation. It frequently happens that a pupil will 
tell his brothers or sisters about the library book he is reading in 

261 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

school, and the brother or sister forthwith goes to the library for 
the book. When a set of books is ordered for the schools, extra 
copies of the same books are ordered for the children's room. 
Small libraries of about 25 volumes each are loaned to the princi- 
pals in the several wards and 300 to the high school. Small 
libraries of 200 volumes each, as well as supplementary reading 
sets, are furnished the village and country schools throughout the 
township. The books sent to the country schools in the mining 
districts are those discarded by the library, and this is their final 
mission. 

Out of a total circulation of 246,000 last year, 75,000 are 
credited to foreign readers, which indicates that about one-third 
of the foreigners use the library books. The male foreigners re- 
ceive further benefits from the athletic department, where they 
pay one dollar for three months for the use of the billiard room, 
game room, gymnasium, swimming pool, and bowling alleys. 
Out of a membership of 3,700 last year, 1,200 were foreigners, 
mostly Slavs. What seems to be a most hopeful indication is 
that these men and boys make the most use of the baths. Out of 
70,000 baths taken last year, fully 23,000 were taken by foreigners 
at a cost of three and one-half cents per bath. The city furnishes 
the water — cheerfully. 

Out of a total attendance of 32,000 in the Music Hall, at least 
5,000 may be credited to the foreigners who come to enjoy the 
free organ recitals, band and orchestra concerts, and choruses. 
Two of the plays given by local talent were by foreigners. The 
children's librarian told stories to the school children to an at- 
tendance aggregating 6,000. The library conducted at the chO- 
dren's playground has its share of influence upon the foreign 
children. Out of a total attendance of 275,000 in all depart- 
ments connected with the library, it is probable that 90,000 were 
foreigners. 

TECHNOLOGICAL USE OF THE HOMESTEAD LIBRARY 

The technology department is composed of approximately 
3,000 volumes. The use during the past year amounted to 7,500. 
The use of periodicals would make this, in all, 10,000. This use- 
fulness has been encouraged by the semi-annual bulletin in which 

262 



APPENDIX XIII 

is printed a list of books on special subjects. The mill books come 
in for their share of publicity. Quantities of these bulletins are 
sent to the numerous offices through the mills as well as to the 
general offices. 

Several years past an annotated list of "mill books for mill 
men" was issued with marked success as to its results. The local 
paper prints freely any lists that are furnished by the library. 
The most satisfactory selection is made by the readers who come 
to the library and select books for themselves. The open shelves 
make it convenient for the reader to find a book that is "just as 
good" when he fails to find the one he wants. 

A well-known author said he did not care what the critics 
said about his books, but he did care what the people said to each 
other. The same principle is true in the use of technical books. 
When Campbell's Iron and Steel was reissued a few years ago it 
became necessary for us to add fifteen copies, and that did not 
fully satisfy the demand. This occurred not because of any special 
effort on the part of the library but because of personal testimony 
of the readers themselves. 

In the case of employes of the Mesta Machine Company, the 
books are taken to the men by conducting a small library of 200 
volumes in their reading room. Many of these books are on the 
subjects of iron, steel, founding and machinery. This like all 
other stations is renewed upon request. The collection at the 
C. M. Schwab Industrial School is composed of 200 volumes on 
mechanical drawing, carpentry, blacksmithing and domestic 
economy, and shows an annual use of nearly 1,000. 

Out of 27 study and literary clubs, only one gave all its time 
to the study of mill subjects. It was composed of 1 5 young men 
and known as the Iron and Steel Club. The Superintendents' 
Club is not classed as a literary club, but it is a fact that most of the 
discussions are on iron and steel subjects, which because of their 
current nature require a marked amount of periodical reading of a 
technical character. 

The educational department enrolled last year 388 students, 
187 of whom were in scientific classes. During the past five years 
there have been not less than 325 men in this department who were 
studying technical subjects and reading technical books on such 

263 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

subjects as physics, chemistry, metallurgy and mechanical draw- 
ing. During the same period a single correspondence school 
claims 900 students in this community. If this be true, there are 
in Homestead probably not less than 1,500 users of technical books. 
This is equal to one-half of the technical employes in the mills. 

The athletic department has no doubt the effect of attract- 
ing men to the books in the library. The Music Hall with an 
attendance of 31,000 likewise brings people to the library. The 
extent to which these two departments influence the use of techni- 
cal literature is not known. 

The close proximity of the libraries in the Monongahela 
Valley to the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh makes it futile to 
build up large collections in technical literature. When the case is 
important, the readers in Homestead are almost invariably re- 
ferred to this library for literature that is final on the subject. 



STUDY AND LITERARY CLUBS 

The first club in Homestead was the Woman's Qub, which 
was organized in 1897. ^^^ ^^^^ includes thirty-five members. 
The subjects from year to year have been broad and comprehen- 
sive. For the past few years, Shakespeare, Norway and Sweden, 
Egypt, Famous Women, together with various modem topics, 
have been the objects of discussion. For two years the children's 
playground work was conducted and sustained by this club. 

The Outlook Qub is composed of business and professional 
men. The subjects discussed are miscellaneous in their character. 
Some of the subjects for the past year were: "Gain as an incentive 
to progress," "Everyday psychology," "Justice in taxation," 
"The function of government," "Poe's place in literature," "If 
I had a million dollars," "The Panama Canal," "The Jewish 
Nation," "Child Labor," "Robert Bums," and "The spirit of 
speculation." The Outlook Qub, like most of these clubs, is en- 
tertained by its members. The lunch is usually composed of three 
items, but the topics for this social period are without number. 
The membership is limited to 15. 

The Thursday Night Study Qub was organized in 1902 and 
is composed of 25 teachers. In the beginning the membership was 

264 



APPENDIX XIII 

limited to 1 5, but the demand for admittance was so great that 
the membership was increased to 25. For six successive years this 
club has studied Shakespeare. The Prytaneum Club is composed 
of the wives of business and professional men. The programs 
have included "Italy," "American topics," "Ancient History" 
and miscellaneous topics. This club has 1 5 members. 

The Principals' Association is composed of the principals of 
the several ward schools and the teachers in art, music, domestic 
economy, commercial and manual training. The topics used in 
this association are, for the most part, literary and pedagogical. 
The Teachers' Association is similar in its character. Its mem- 
bership consists of the grade teachers and their papers are on 
subjects relating to their profession. Speakers of national reputa- 
tion are invited to address these two associations when they hold 
joint sessions. 

The Platonian Literary Society with 70 members is virtually 
the Munhall high school. The value of the literary society cannot 
be overestimated. The majority of the members in study clubs 
were at some time identified with a school literary society. The 
Munhall Teachers' Study Qub consists of the teachers in the school 
of the borough of Munhall. The topics discussed are literary and 
pedagogical. The Monongahela Valley Library Association is 
composed of the librarians in Braddock, Homestead, Duquesne, 
and McKeesport. The programs are mostly professional and 
literary. Five out of a membership of 25 live in Homestead. 

The Thebian is a literary society conducted at Lincoln 
Place, about three miles from Homestead. The Excelsior Qass is 
a Sunday-school class that devotes certain evenings to literary 
work. This plan not only benefits the members intellectually 
but helps to solve the problem of retaining the Sunday-school 
membership of young people from thirteen to eighteen years of 
age. Although the Thebians are in Lincoln Place and the Ex- 
celsiors in Munhall, the distance does not prevent them from 
locking horns in debate. The West Homestead Teachers' Club 
studies the reading designated by the county superintendent. 
The programs are interspersed with current event topics. In four 
of the Homestead ward schools literary societies are conducted in 
the seventh and eighth grades. 

265 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Two organizations that are closely allied to the study dubs 
are the Men's Association of the First Presbyterian Churdi with 
loo members and the Wesleyan Brotherhood of the First IL E. 
Church with 50 members. The literary work of these organiza- 
tions is conducted on the lecture plan, and consists of addresses oq 
historical, literary and religious subjects. 

The Homeville Literary Society has a membership of ;o. 
The Philakalon is the name of the society of young ladies in the 
Homestead high school. The membership numbers 15. The 
subjects are current topics and self culture. The Lincoln Place 
Teachers' Qub, with a membership of seven, discusses literary and 
pedagogical subjects. The Brilliant Qrcle of Whitaker is com- 
posed of ladies who discuss current topics. 

In all there are 22 literary and study clubs with a member- 
ship of 787. Not all the clubs that have been organized have 
lived. Some ceased because their purpose had been accomplished; 
others disbanded "because" — ^and that is all the reason a woman 
needs to give. The Woman's Improvement Qub, the Steel Qub, 
the Gwal» the Qiautauqua Qrcle, the Criterion Qub, the Ancient 
History Qub, the Atheneum Qub and the Audubon Society are 
in this class. 

These literary clubs are unified in the United Literary Qubs 
of Homestead and vicinity. This organization was formed in 
190a for the purposes of (i) interchange of experience, (2) obtain- 
ing the stimulus derived from the assemblage of a large number of 
people having the same purpose, (3) stimulating the ethical and 
literary spirit of the community, (4) forming new clubs. The 
annual function of this organization has attracted a thousand of 
the dub members and their friends. The best talent that can be 
secured is obtained for these occasions. The first annual meeting 
was held in the smallest church in town and now the meetings 
must be held in the Carnegie Music Hall. 

The Carnegie Library aims to take a helpful interest in the 
club spirit of this community. The books that may be of service 
to any dub with a program made out for the year are placed on a 
shelf in "club comer" where they may be consulted or selected 
for home use. In the case of the Audubon Society a list of books 
and magazine artides was printed for free distribution. The 

266 



APPENDIX XIII 



A YEAR'S USE, COMPARATIVE STATISTICS FOR 1908 AND 1909 



DepartnufUs 


1908 


1909 


Gain 


Loss 


LIBRARY 

Inventory 

Accessions .... 
Withdrawn .... 


33.961 

3.753 
944 


36,943 

4.330 

1,339 


3.981 
467 
295 


m 9 
m m 
9 9 


Circulation .... 


235.347 


345.83' 


10,584 


• • 


Adult Desk .... 
Juvenile Desk 

Schools 

Stations 


77'774 

78!o58 
39,840 


51,665 

90.195 
36,459 


• ■ 

1,090 
»3,i37 

• • 


262 

• ■ 

3.381 


Percentage of Fiction. 


53 


5" 


• • 


2 


Attendance .... 


131.869 


133.700 


1,831 




Adult 

Juvenile 


52,768 


80,500 
53.300 


1.389 
432 




Readers 


11,000 


11,500 


500 




Reading Room Use . 


93.000 


97.500 


4.500 




EDUCATION— Attendance 

Scientific 

Musical 


5.900 

3.895 
2,561 


7.136 
3.887 
3.550 


1,326 

989 


8 

• • 

• « 


Number Students . 


364 


388 


34 


• • 


Study Clubs .... 


25 


37 


2 


• • 


Membership .... 


750 


800 


50 


m m 


THE CLUB 
Membership. Av. Monthly . 


994 


1,179 


185 


• m 


Employees .... 
Non-Employees 

Boys 

Girls 

Ladies 

Different Members 


263 
224 

55 

79 

3733 


424 

291 

285 

99 
80 

3.705 


50 

44 
1 

973 


m m 
m m 
m m 

• • 

• • 

• • 


Attendance .... 


89,042 


97.754 


8,712 


■ • 


Gymnasium .... 
Gymnasium Members . 
Natatorium .... 


19,731 

950 

55.356 


21.013 
69,509 


1.292 

93 
14,213 


■ • 

■ • 
• • 


Bowling Games 


3,216 


1,832 


• • 


384 


MUSIC HALL 

Events 

Attendance .... 


22 
»3.370 


.34 
31,625 


12 
18.255 


• • 

• • 


Attendance — Grand Totals 


240,390 


374,350 


33.960 


■ • 


Percentage of Gain 


13.4 


i7-5 


51 


• • 



267 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

percentage of fiction circulated is 51. Before these clubs were 
organized the percentage of fiction was 63. 

While figures are considered conclusive, they do not always 
tell all the story. The value of the clubs to the individuals, to 
society, to the public schools, and to the library would make a 
book if it could be written. To accomplish this general good 
through organized reading is what the United Literary Qubs 
aim to do. . 

A catechetical conclusion 

IVbat points are most essential in comparing the usefulness of 
libraries? 

1. Volumes per capita. Because it indicates that the library 
has or has not enough books. 

2. The percentage of readers per population. Because it 
indicates that the library is or is not covering its field. 

3. The per capita circulation. Because it indicates that the 
readers are or are not making sufficient use of the books. 

4. Percentage of fiction read. Because it indicates, in a 
measure, the quality of reading done. 

5. The cost of circulating each volume. Because it indi- 
cates that the funds are or are not being used economically. 

How many volumes should our library have? 

According to the average of ten well-known libraries one 
volume per capita is sufficient. We have 37,000 volumes and 
about 30,000 population in that part of Mifflin Township which we 
supply with books to a greater or less degree. This is i .2 volumes 
per capita. 

How many readers ought our library have? 

If the average is a criterion we should have 7,510 readers or 
25 per cent of our population. The fact is we have 1 1,500 readers 
or 38 per cent of our population. 

How well are these readers using the library? 

Each reader draws on an average of 22 volumes. This is 7 
more than the average. Out of 22 volumes drawn by each reader 
only 5 1 per cent is fiction. Since the fiction is of the best, it does 
not count much against the quality of reading. The average 
percentage of fiction read in libraries is 63. 

268 



APPENDIX XIII 

Is it costing us more to get our books read than it does- other 
cities? 

It costs us 5 cents to get a book read. This is 7 cents less 
than the average. 

How does our club compare with other similar organisations? 

By comparing our club with the average of 450 similar or- 
ganizations, our operating expenses are I2400 less ; our member- 
ship is 459 more; our attendance is the same; we have 215 more 
in the gymnasium; and we have 26 more organized teams. 

How does our educational work compare with other similar 
work? 

By comparing the same as in the athletic club, we have 
three more teachers, 205 more scholars, and a per capita expense 
of I3.00 less. 

The Pittsburgh Gazette-Times considers the annual report 
of Homestead Carnegie Library of sufficient importance for a very 
complimentary editorial notice. 

"Special significance attaches to the eleventh annual 
report of the Homestead Carnegie library. It is generally 
believed that an industrial community must be intellectually 
stagnant, and also that a large admixture of foreign element 
in the population acts as a drawback upon the so-called 
'higher life.' So far as this higher life is made up of bridge 
whist and new thought, there may be truth in the general 
belief; but, juddng by such indices of social and mental 
activity as the Homestead library affords, neither the pres- 
ence of aliens nor preoccupation with material interests 
interferes with the most gratif)dng progress. In fact, com- 
parison with other communities and similar institutions 
gives rise to the suspicion that these factors promote instead 
of hamper the 'higher life.' 

"The Homestead library contains 37,000 volumes and 
serves a community of about 30,000. dver 77,000 volumes 
were circulated at the adult desk last year among 11,500 
readers. The total circulation in all departments was 
246,000, an increase of 1 1 ,000 over the previous year. Most 
significant of all is the percentage of nction read, which is 
only 51, being 14 per cent lower than the average library. 
The report tells of 27 literary and study clubs in the com- 
munity with a membership of about 800, while the Carnegie 
Library club listed 3,705 members in the course of the year. 

269 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

It should be understood that the Homestead libraiy is 
largely institutional, with swimming pools and billiard 
tables, brass bands, and evening classes to supplement the 
books upon the shelves. 

"Librarian Stevens is to be congratulated u|)on the 
excellent showing of his 'plant/ But Homestead is even 
more to be congratulated upon the excellent use made of its 
opportunities to upset the theory that an industrial com- 
munity is necessanly unintellectual and materialistic" 

The library management and the good people of Homestead 
appreciate the recognition of the advancement the citizens here 
are making mtellectually and trust the wider circulation of the 
fact will have a good influence on "benighted" industrial com- 
munities. 



270 



APPENDIX XIV 

SLAVIC ORGANIZATIONS IN HOMESTEAD 

Patriotic Statement by a Slav 

A CLERKLY Slav, who had lived in Homestead for some 
years, put down the following in answer to some ques- 
tions about the fraternal organizations of his own people.* 
It was his expressed wish to write his answers rather than to 
"speak them," saying of them: 

Please excuse me, if I have done in this my letter some gram- 
matical or linguistical errors. I can work in six languages, but in the 
English 1 am working seldom. I have learnt the English language 
mostly from books, and have had very small opportunity to go deeper 
into this most beautyfull American language. If I can not write and 
speak it as Milton or Shakespeare, You must excuse me. It is some- 
time no good, to take from good to much. And this is true with the 
knowledge of to much languages. One You are neglecting for the other. 
But as You see please, 1 am not neglecting very much the beautyfull 
language of my adopted American country. 

His letter, despite its quaint formalism, breathes a spirit 
toward America which it would be sheer wantonness to mar by 
attempting to edit out his phrases. It is worth printing here for 
itself: 

There are in Homestead following: — not foreign but decid- 
edly American, non-english, indigenous, public organizations of 
the Slavic race, respectively of the Slovak nation. 

1. National Slovak Society In the United States and Can- 
ada, 37,000 members. Slovak organization. 

2. Roman Catholic Slovak Union in the United States and 
Canada, 36,000 members. Slovak organization. 

3. Greek Catholic Union called Sojedinenje, all over the 
United States and Canada, 22,000 members. Slovak organization. 

4. Greek Catholic Union called Sojur, in the United States 
and Canada, 8,000 members. Russian organization. 

* For a thoroughly interesting and exhaustive interpretation of organized 
social life among the Slavs, and their assimilation in this country, the reader is 
referred to Our Slavic Fellow Gtizens by Emily Greene Balch, recently issued by 
Charities Publication Committee, New York. 

271 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

^""■^•'^ 5. Greek Catholic Union, called Obscestvo, in the United 
States and Canada, ^,000 members. Russian organization. 

6. Roman and Greek Catholic Union of Pennsylvania, in 
the United States and Canada, 8,000 members. Slovak organiza- 
tion. 

7. Slovak Evangelical Lutheran Union, in the United States 
and Canada, 6,000 members. Slovak organization. 

How many members have these organizations in the town 
of Homestead, ra., separately, I cannot state, and this statement 
if I would or could do it could not be correct, because all these 
organizations have in Homestead, i, 2, 3, 4, branches called 
assemblys and from these some have 200-400 members, but 
there are such, which have 50-60 members only. 

The accounting of the membership of the Assembl)^ 
cannot be made correctly, because the members are migrating 
every month from one place to another, from one town to another, 
searching for work ana occupation. There-fore in the account of 
the membership of Assemblys is sometime big difference every 
year, every month and every week. 

These organizations are paying death benefits from f6oo.oo 
to 1 1, 000,000. Accident benefits from 1 100.00 to I400.00 and 
benefits in sickness from I5.00 to I7.00 weekly. Every member 
of these organizations does pay monthly dues from 80 cents to 
1 1. 30. These dues are changing in their amount nearly monthly 
according to how many expenses are there in the organization, 
and how many deaths, accidents and sickness occur. These or- 
ganizations are mostly organizations of men, but in some, as in 
all the Greek Catholic Unions, are included women too, which are 
organized in separate assemblys belonging to their respective 
organizations. 

The Slavic race has separate women organizations too; 
and these, mostly are by the Slovaks, these: 

1. Slovak National Women's Union called "Jivena" in the 
United States and Canada, with active membership of nearly 8,000. 

2. Slovak Roman Catholic Women's Union in the United 
States and Canada with active membership of nearly 10,000 
women and girls. 

3. The Roman and Greek Catholic Women Union of Penn- 
sylvania in the United States and Canada a membership of 3,000 
women and girls. 

"There are Young Men Associations in the United States 
anid Canada. 

I. Roman Catholic Younjg Mens Association with nearly 

Sioo members. This organization is a branch of the big " Roman 
tholic Slovak Union." 

272 



APPENDIX XIV 

2. Greek Catholic Young Men Association with nearly 
1,500 members. This organization is a branch of the Greek 
Catholic Union called Sojedinenije. 

There is the "Gymnastical Slovak Union" called Sokol in 
the United States and Canada, with a membership of 5,000 young 
men. Independent of any organization. 

Besides these American, Slovak Organizations, there are 
in Homestead and all over the United States more organizations of 
Polish, Russian, Croation, Chech, Servian, Bulgariass, nationality 
but regarding these I can state onlv, that these nationalities of the 
Slav race have very strong and ricn organizations. 

The organization of the Lituanian nationality are in number 
4 or 5 and these must be reckoned to the Slav race, too, because 
the Lituanians are only a branch of the very big Slav race, and 
they are one of the Slav nations. 

1 have there stated the membership of the organizations a 
little higher, because I know that until your book will be ready, 
the organizations will have nearly the same number of members, 
which I state here. This does occur irrevocably, because the 
immigration of all these nations to this most glorious our American 
Repuolic, to the United States, is just now enormous and it will 
be in a short time more stronger. 

The Slav race, and without exception all the Slav nationali- 
ties are the most and sincere patriotic people of our great Republic, 
the United States, because they have found there all that of which 
they have been robbed in their old countries. They have found 
in United States personal and common liberty, free and inde- 
pendent civilization, wellfare and all that which the aborigines 
of the English and other races have there found themselves. 
Therefore tne Slavic races is the most zealous supporter of all the 
state and social institutions. Because this way, the Slavs are 
interested in the material and moral development and evolution 
of this country, they are supporting every time that political party, 
which does seem to them the most honest, moral, and virtuous party. 
Because now the Republican party and the whole United btates 
under the most honest, circumspect and dorious leadership of our 
most beloved president Mr. Theodore Roosevelt are enjoying, 
just in the latest years, a degree of evolution in every respect, 
naturally the Slav are mostly Republicans and are following the 
steps which president Roosevelt does designate. Very small 
amount of the Slavs is democratic. Socialist are some may be 
1000-2000, may be a little more, but not a single Anarchist The 
Anarchists are mostly Russian Jews. 

"There are in Homestead and vicinity plenty of English 
speaking Slavs, and if you want, you can go to whichever finer 

18 273 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

Slav or Slovak home and personally ask regarding the cost cf 
living. But you must have somebody with you from the Slavs or 
Slovaks themselves, who is among them good, versatilic and known 
as their priminent or honest man or woman. If you have not 
done this, you cannot get some information and not the smallest, 
because the people are every time secluded and reserved in their 
giving of information to one, whom they do not know, who he or 
she is. 

I can state only that, that this step from you would be of 
no use, because our people is living in every respect as the Ameri- 
can English people is living, except that the Slavs are liking to eat 
dumpies with fine cheese of their country and disregard the eating 
of half cooked or baked english beafsteak. The yearlv costs of 
living are by the Slavs the same as by the English people which is 
varymg according the degrees of wellfare of the family. From 
my experience 1 state that a family of working people now in the 
United States does need yearly f«x>-|8oo for support and from 
this can save very very small amount or nothinjg;. 

Our people the Slavs are not holding or registering accounts 
regarding their income or expenses. This does not do nobody 
from the poorer classes in the whole world, except in some very 
rich and very popular families. Some European rich Barons, 
Counts, and Princes are doing this, but not a single from the poorer 
class. If there is one or two cases that is exception only. 

The Greek Catholic Union is doing the same, what are 
doing the all other Slav or Slovak organizations. This is enlight- 
ening the people and members in every respect on the true prin- 
cipals of the christian civilization. To develop from the members 
the most true, honest, moral, citizens of the United States, and 
therefore, the members are compelled to become citizens of the 
United States to help each other in the case of death, accidents or 
sickness. To support the United States and their christian civil- 
ization in every possible regard. To develop their own civilization 
by the means of cultivation of their own the Endish American, 
but not English European language? To reach tnis purpose not 
only the Greek Catholic Union, but all the Slav organizations and 
all the Slav race have spent millions of dollar to build christian 
schools and churches which are standing now in every part of the 
United States where there are living the Slavs. There will be 
built more. 

In Homestead the Greek Catholic Union called Sojedinenije 
has two Assemblys, of men with 260 and 130 members, respective 
subscribers, and one Assembly of women with 60 memoers or 
subscribers. The official organ is the weekly Amerikansky 
Russky Viertnik but 1 must there make the observation that 

274 



APPENDIX XIV 

because this weekly is the property of the whole organization, the 
members are supportins; this weekly themselves and for this 
purpose are paying monthly 8 cents for the paper into the treasury 
of the organization and for this reason the members of the organi- 
zations cannot be considered as subscribers, but as proprietors of 
the paper. In the right sense of word they are not subscribers, 
but proprietors of the paper. Subscribers we have not very much 
but supporters or proprietors of the paper there are as many as 
how many members there are in the organization; that is just 
now 20,500 in round numbers, but in some three or four months 
there will be over 22,000. 

Some Observation: The organizations of the Slavic race are 
not foreign organizations but indigenous, because the organiza- 
tions are chartered by the American, United States authorities, 
courts and governmental delegations, and to these oi^ganizations 
are belonging adopted citizens of United States, mostly, or such 
individuals who in short time would be citizens. 

Adopted, naturalized citizens of United States is not a for- 
eigner, whatever language he does speak. A Endbh speaking 
Csuiadian, or a subject of the European United English Kingdom, 
if not naturalized, is more foreigner in the United States, as a 
naturalized and only slightly English speaking, Slav or German. 

To know to read and write is not a sign of civilization, but 
the manner and habits, the moral degree of a individual. One 
who is good educated, but is a scoundrel, rascal or wrong doer, is 
not a civilized or at least wrongly civilized and educated individual. 
One who is good educated and is a human beast, is more dangerous 
to the humanity as a Bengal tiger, and for this reason cannot be 
called civilized individual. 

The national civilization of the Slavs is the same christian 
civilization as that of the English race, because the source of both 
is the same, Jesus Christ, the distinction exist only in some national 
traits and habits. 

No one nation does exist which has not some black sheep. 
In every nation are fine and good men and women, but in every 
nation there are some bad men. 

The science of sociology has the commencement in the 
marriage then in the family, then in the tribe then does spread in 
the nation, then in the race and finally in the whole humanity. 

Sociology is a very young science and is very different from 
"Cultural History" which is a young science too. 

The first cultivator of the true and right science of sociol- 
ogy was Jesus Christ, the true fundamental ideas of sociology are 
in the Holy Bible. 

Every science must be based on christian philosophy, be- 

275 



homestead: the households of a mill town 

cause the most true philosophy are the revelations of God, and 
the source of every science is God, because every true wisdom does 
come directly from God. 

If a science is not in harmony with the laws of morality 
and the laws of God and of nature, such science is not science but 
fraud and prostitution of reason and human soul. 

It is impossible for me to supplv you with the data of all 
the organizations of the Slavic race, oecause to get this data, I 
would be compelled to work diligently for months and give my»^ 
in connection with every Slav organization and with every As- 
sembly, with every president or officer of the organizations and 
Assemblys. 

If you are sometime writing regarding the Slavs, never do you 
forget that the Slavs have been every time and are until today the 
most brave and gallant, heroic defenders of the western European 
civilization and of all the Western European nations. If there is 
not Slav blood, and if there have not been the Slav heroes in 
Eastern Europe, the civilization of the Western European Na- 
tions, the French, German, English national civilizations would 
have been crashed under the hard blows of Tartarism, Mohammed- 
anism and Mongolism. The newest example of this truth is the 
most eloquent Russo-Japanese war. 



APPENDIX XV 

POPULATION OF HOMESTEAD AND MUNHALL, 1910 

The United States census of 1910 gives Homestead borough 
a population of 18713, as against 12,554 in 1900, and 7911 in 
1890. The population of Munhall is given as 5185. 



276 



INDEX 



INDEX 



Accident Relief Plan- 
United States Sted G>rporation, 
95; Appendix Xn, 249 

Aldennanic Conrts — 
System of, 28, 29 

Allegheny County Medical Society, 

147 

Amalgamated Association of Iron 
and Steel Workers — 

Power of, 8; wage scale fixed by, 6, 
7, 8; and the Homestead strike, 7-10 

Americanizing Slays — 
Problem of, 167, 168 

Amusements, 30, 31; athletic dubs, 
116; Carnegie Library dubs, 117; 
church, 115, X16; cultural, 117; 
fraternal organizations, 113, 114, 115, 
163, 164; private, no; private, of 
Slavs, 149, 150, 151; public, in, 112; 
public, of Slavs, 151; women's dubs, 
X14, X16. See BlsoRecreationt Expert 
ditures for 

Analysis of 00 budget families— 
By radaf and expenditure group, 
(Table) 44; by racial group and nor- 
mal weekly wage of man, (Table) 36; 
and detailed description of, Appendix 
U, 206 



Architecturi 

Of workingmen's homes, 47 

Athletic clubs, 116 

Atwater, Prof. — 

Food ratios established by, 69, 71 



Average expenditurt 

For food per man per day of 90 
budget families, by racial and ex- 
penditure group, (Table) 69; of 
Slavic families compared with those 
of other races spending more than $15 



per week, (Table) 156; of ten Slavic 
budget families earning less than $12 
per week, (Table) 140; of two groups 
of 10 families each, those spending $15 
or more per week and those spending 
less than $12, with the ratio of in- 
crease, (Table) 156. See also general 
tables 



Average weekly expendituri 

General description and average 
weekly expenditure of each of the 90 
budget families, Appendix 11, 2o6j of 
90 budget families, by chief items of 
expenditure and expenditure group, 
(Table) 45; of 90 budget families by 
chief items of expenditure and racial 
group, (Table) 44; of 90 budget fam- 
ilies for various items, by expenditure 
group, (Table) 84; of 29 Slavic bud- 
get families, (Table) 152; of 77 house- 
renting families by chief items of ex- 
penditure and expenditure group, 
(Table) 45 



Balch, Emily Greene — 

Our Slavic Fellow Citizens, 13 

Benefit associations. See Fraiemal 
organisations 

Benefits- 
Carnegie Relief, paid 42 widows, 
(Table) 95; insurance, 96; paid by 
Slavic fiatemal organizations, i6x, 
(Table) 162, 163 

BiU of fare- 
Typical, 63, 64 

Births— 

In each ward in Homestead, by 
radal group, (Table) 146 

Board of Health Report, Homestead, 
23, Appendix VI, 222 



279 



INDEX 



Boards of Health- 
Pennsylvania act to enable bor- 
ough councils to establish, Appendix 
V, 218 

Boarding-houses — 

Slavic, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 143, 
Z44. See also Lodgers 

Borough autonomy — 
Limitations of, 29 

Borough divisions — 

Effect of, on taxes, 19, 20, 21, 22, 
178; independent, composing Home- 
stead, 4, 18, 19, 20, 21, 178 



Borough ordinan< 

Regulating sanitary conditions, 25; 
futility of, in deaUng with railroads, 
29 

Bryce and Highbie Glass Factory, 5 

Budget families- 
Description (detailed) and average 
weekly expenditure of 90, (Tables) 
Appendix II, 206; method of select- 
ing, 37, Appendix I, 187. See also 
general tables 

Budget study- 
American assistant employed in 
making, 37; includes families of 
different wage and racial groups, 37; 
includes period of depression 1907-08, 
43 ; main purpose of economic side of, 
43; methods of, Appendix I, 187; 
Slavic assistant employed in making, 
37, 38; subject of, 4 

Building laws, 25 

Burial benefits. See Benefits 



Capital stock — 

Carnegie Steel Company, increase 
in, 7 

Carnegie Land Company — 
Houses in Munhall, 18, 48 

Carnegie Library, Homestead, 178; 
described by W. F. Stevens, Appendix 
Xin, 255; Slavic books in, 166 

Carnegie Library clubs, 88, 257-260; 
activities of, 117, 257-260; educa- 



tional classes, 124, 262-264; open to 
Slavs, 166, 167, 260-262 

Carnegie Relief Fund, 93, 94, 95, 
Appendix XI, 245; benefits paid from, 
(Table) 95 

Carnegie Steel Company — 

Qassification and earnings of 
employes. Homestead Steel Works, 
Appendix IV, 215; compensation 
paid for work-acddents, 94, (Table) 
95; increase in capital stock, 7; 
KJoman's mill absorbed by, 5; loans 
money to employes to assbt in pm-- 
chasing homes, 58 

Carnegie Technical School in Pitts- 
burg, 124 

Casualties — 

On unprotected grade 
Homestead, Appendix VU, 233 

Chamber of Commerce: Rqx>rt of 
Committee on Trade and Commerce. 
69, 237 

Chapin, Robert Coit— 

The Standard of Living azQong 
Workingmen's Families in New York 
City, SI, 52, 67, 70, 103, 104, 105, 142. 
x8i 

Child-labor— 

None in steel mills, 127 

Children— 

At work, 1 18; bom in each ward in 
Homestead, ratio of, to deaths of 
children under two in the same 'ward, 
(Table) 146; education of, 118; effect 
of overcrowding on Slavic, 145, 146, 
147; future prospects of Slavic, 148; 
home training of, 118; home training 
of Slavic, 148; lack of care in feeding, 
64; seldom work outside home, 41, 
107, 125 

Children of Homestead, The, iift- 

128 

Christianity and the Social Crisis — 
By Walter Rauschenbusch, 88 

Church — 

Amusements, 115, 116; expendi- 
tures for, 88, 89; influences on 
152, 158, 159, 160 



280 



INDEX 



Churches — 

Founded before strike of 1893, 6; 
Slavic, 133 

CMc conditions, 31, 33 

Civic development, 5, 6, 17 

Civic efficiency— 

Effect of transient population on, 

IS 
Civic environment, 27, 28, 29. 30, 31, 

Civic inertia, 26, 173, 178 



Civic lif< 

Effect of industrial conditions on, 4, 

35, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 171, 172, 173, 
178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 184 

Civic ontlook, x 28 ; Slavs' influence on, 

138 

Clothing, expenditures for, 82, 83, 

(Table) 84, 86, 87, loi, X02, 103, 104, 
X05; by Slavs, 140. 143, 157, (Tables) 
153, 156; during aepression of 1907- 
08, (Table) 98; minimum, 103 

College education — 

Attitude toward, 136, 137 

Colonial Club, 37 

Colored. See Negroes 

Commercial schools, 135 

Community of interest— 

Among English workers, 16 

** Company" houses. See Housing of 
employes 

Compensation- 
Paid by Carnegie Steel Company 
to widows of 43 employes killed in 
Allegheny County, (Table) 95; 



ceived by 43 widows plus Carnegie 
Relief boiefits, (Table) 95. See also 
Work-acddenis 

Conclusion, 169-184 

Congestion of population, 46, 47; 
among Slavs, 135, 136, 137. See also 
Overcrowding 

Cost of living, 66; in Pittsburgh, 



Appendix DC, 337. See also Food; 
Fuel; Rent; eU, 

Coz, John F., 33 

Credit- 
Buying on, 75, 98, 99, 100. See 
2lso Instaimenl 



Daughters — 

Parents' ambition for, 137, 128. 
See also Children; Women 

Davis, Thomas L., 37 

Death benefits. See Benefits 

Death rate, 35, 36. See also Infant 
mortality 

Deaths— 

Of children \mder two years of age 
in each ward in Homestead, by racial 
group, (Table) 146 

Depression of 1907-08 — 

Economic effect of, 100; effect of, 
on budget investigation, 43, 197; 
expenditures during, 43, (Table) 98, 
99, 197-198; expenditures for cloth- 
ing during, (Table) 98; expenditures 
for food by same family in normal 
times and during depression, 77, 
(Table) 78; expenditures for food 
during, (Table) 98; expenditures for 
fuel, (Table) 98; expenditures for 
furniture, insurance, and sundries 
during, (Table) 98, 197; insurance 
premiums paid during, 97; privation 
among Slavs caused by, 135; savings 
drawn from bank during, by racial 
group, (Table) 99; savings not in 
budgets during, 97 

Dinner pail — 

Importance of, 64 

Disorderly houses, 38 



Domestic scienci 

In schoob, 78, 122, 123, 125 



Earnings. See Wages 

Eastman, Crystal— 

Work-accidents and the Law, 93, 95 



281 



INDEX 



Bconomic deyelopmenty 39, 30, 31, 32 

Economic independence — 
Lack of, 31 

Economy — 

Result of undue, in fuel, 86; undue, 
may lower physical and social stand- 
ards, 84, 85, 86. See also Savings, 
cost of 

Education — 

Attitude of Slavs toward, 160; 
attitude toward college, 126, 127; 
of children, 1x8; of Slavic childien, 
159, 160. See also Sundries, Expen- 
diiures for 

Educationnl classes — 

Carnegie Library Clubs, 124 

Emergency- 
Weekly e^>enditures by two typical 
families m time of, 89, 90 

Employes- 
Attitude of, toward mill, 174, 175, 
176, 177, 178; Carnegie Steel Com- 
pany loans to, for purchasing homes. 
58; housing of, 18, 19; in Homestead 
plant of U. S. StMl Corporation, 
Appendix III, 214; racial groups in 
Homestead plant of Carnegie Steel 
Company, (Table) 13; classification 
and earnings of, in Homestead plants. 
Appendix IV, 215 

Employes owning homes. See House 
owners 

Employment, steadiness of. See 
Wages, regularity of 

English-speaking Europeans — 

Expenditiures of, for food, 70, 
(Tables) 44, 68, 69, 72; expenditures 
of, for fuel, (Table) 44; expenditures 
of, for insurance, (Table) 44; ex- 
penditures of, for other items, (Table) 
44; expenditures of, for rent, (Tables) 
44f 50, 52; expenditures per week by, 
^Table) 44; infant mortality among, 
(Table) 146; owning homes, (Table) 
57; wages of skilled and unskilled, 
(Table) 40; weekly wage of, (Table) 
38. See ai.so general tables and Ap- 
pendix II 



English-speaking familii 

Ideab of, 106; income of, uncreased 
by lodgers, 107, xo8 

English-speaking honseholds. The, 
33-1 28; community of interest among, 
z6; problems of, 106 

Entertainments. SetAmuseme n i s 

Equity- 
Question of, involved in strike ol 

1892, XO, XX 

Evening schools, 123, 124; for Slavs, 
z66 

Expenditures — 

Analysis of budget families by, 
(Table) 36; analjrsis of, by ddeC 
items, (Tables) 44, 45; average, of 
Slavic families, (Tables) 140, 152; 
average, of Slavic families compared 
with others, (Table) 156; by native 
whites, (Table) 44; bv Nenoes, 
(Table) 44; by Slavs, (Tables) 44, 
152; comparison of, (Table) 156; 
during depression of 1907-08, (TaUe) 
98, 99, 197; for instalment on home 
during depression of 1907-08, (Table) 
98; mars^, 81, 82, 83, (Table) 84, 
85, 86; of a family in normal times 
and in time of depression, (Table) 98; 
of different budget groups, analysis ol 
average weekly, 102, 103, X04, xos, 
106; of families spendixig less than 
$12 a week, (Table) Z02; by English- 
speaking Europeans, (Table) 44; 
ratio of weekly, for various items 
between different expenditure groups, 
(Table) 84; relative, for food and 
rent in different raaal groups, 70; 
weekly, by two typical families in 
time ot emergency, 89, 90. See also 
Rent; Pood; Fuel; Clothing; Insur- 
ance; and other special items 

Expenses — 

Reduction of, during depression of 
1907-08, 98, 99. See also Expendi- 
tures 



Family ideals, 45, 55; fulfilment of, 
limited, 171, X72; of English-speak- 
ing workmen, zo6 



282 



INDEX 



FamUy life- 
Dependent on men's wages, 41; 
effect of industrial conditions on, 4, 
35. 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 171, 172, 173, 
178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 184; 
type of, determined by mdustnal 
conditions, 107 

Family relationships. See Human 
rdationskips 

Financial condition of municipality, 
ai, 32 

Fitch, John A.— 

The Steel Workers, 36, 42, i77 

Food, 63, 64, 6s, 66, 67; . and rent, 
relative expenditures for, m different 
racial groups, 70; a three-times-a-day 
problem, 80; budgets, two weekly, of 
a thrifty family, (Table) 78; dmner- 
pail, 64; discretion in buying, 77; 
evils of buying on credit, 75; high 
prices of, 66; holiday feasts, 65; 
ignorance of values, 78; irregularity of 
meals, 64; lack of care m feeding 
children, 64; ratios established by 
Prof. Atwater, 69, 71; standard of 
notirishment, 70, 71; Sunday dinner, 
6s; typical bill of fare, 63, 64 



Food, expenditures for, 67, 68, 69, 82, 
83, 84, loi, 102, 103, 104, 105; by a 
poor housekeeper, (Table) 76; by a 
thrifty housekeeper, (Table) 76; by 
English-speaking Europeans, 70, 
(Tables) 44, 68, 69, 72; by expendi- 
ture group, (Tables) 45, 68; by 
native whites, 70, (Tables) 44, 68, 69, 
72; by Negroes, 70, (Tables) 44, 68, 
69, 72; by same family in normal 
times and during depression, 77 1 
(Table) 78; by Slavs, 70, i40, iS7, 
(Tables) 44, 68, 69, 72, 141, 152, 156; 
by two housewives of extreme types, 
74, 75, (Table) 76; dependent on 
thriftiness of housewives, 74, 75, 76, 
79, 80; during depression of 1907-08, 
(Table) 98, 198; families spending 
less than 22 cents per man per day, by 
expenditure and racial groups, (Table) 
72; in Slavic boarding house, 139, 
140; in Slavic home, 141; per capita, 
(Tables) 69, 70, 7^, 72, 73, 74, 141; 
purchased on special order for 



boarders during month account was 
kept (Slav family), (Table) 139 

Fraternal organizations — 

Amusements of, 113, 1x4, ii5, 163, 
164; Home Guards, 96; insurance m, 
90, (Table) 91; membership, 113; 
Modem Woodmen, 96, 113; Odd 
Fellows, lis; Order of Elks, 113; 
outside charity work of, 115; Pro- 
tected Home Circle, 113; Royal 
Arcanum, 96, 113; Slavic, is8, x6o, 
161, 162, 163, 164; Slavic, affiliated 
with national, 163; Slavic, benefits 
paid by, 161, (Table) 162, 163; 
Slavic, insurance in, i6i, (Table) 162, 
163; Slavic, nationalities segregated 
in separate lodges, 164; social fea- 
tures of, 113, 114, "5 

Frick, H. C— 

Cause of antagonism toward, 8; 
park given by, 30, 178 

" Front room," sSt 56, 85 

Fuel, expenditures for, 82, 83, (Table) 
84, 87, 102, 103, 104; by English- 
speaking Europeans, (Table) 44; 
by expenditure group, (Table) 45; 
by native whites, (Table) 44; by 
Negroes, (Table) 44; by Slavs, 140, 
IS7, (Tables) 44, 152, 156; durii^ 
depression of 1907-08, (Table) 98; 
results of undue economy in, 86 

Furniture, expenditures for, 82, 83, 
(Table) 84, 8s, 87, loi, 102, 103, 104, 
los; by Slavs, 140, 142, (Tables) 1S2, 
156; during depression of 1907-08, 
(Table) 98 

Future outlook — 

Civic and industrial, 128 



Gardens — 

Of workingmen's homes, 47, 48 

Girls» ^et Daughters; Women 

Grade crossings — 

Unprotected in Homestead, 29; 
casuialties on. Appendix VI, 233 

Great Britain- 
Grants by governmental authori- 
ties for building operations, s8 



283 



INDEX 



Hays borough, 19 

Health- 
Expenditures for. See Medicine, 
Exp^uiiiures for 

High schools, xao 

Holiday feasts, 65 

Hollow, The. See MunkaU Hottaw 

Home Guards, 96 

Home Life of the Slays, 145-157 

Home-making, 55, 56, 57, loS, 109, zxo 

Home purchasers — 

Amoog 90 budget families, by 
normal weekly income and by racial 
group, (Table) 57 

Homes owned by employes. See 
House owners 

Homestead — 

As a business center, 39, ^o; taxes, 
(Table) 20; town plan of, 46, 47; 
water and sewerage systems, 33; 
boroughs, 4, 18, 19, 20, 21, 32, 178 

Homestead and the great strike, 3- 

XX 

Homestead Bank and Life Insurance 
Company, 46 

Homestead Park, X9, 30 

Homestead Realty Company, 58 

Homestead Woman's Club, xi6, 121, 

132 

Homeyille, 19 
Hospitals, 95 



Mill, 36, 171, 172 

House owners — 

Carnegie Sted Company helps 
en^loyes to become, 58; English- 
sp^Uung Europeans, (Table) 57; 
native whites, (Table) 57; Negroes, 
(Table) 57; number of, increased by 
considerateness of real estate com- 
panies, 31; opportunities for becom- 
ing, given workingmen, 57, 58, 61; 
Slavs, (Table) 57, 152, 153, 155; why 



some workingmen are not, 60, 61, 62; 
workingmen as, 45, 56, 57. 58, 59, 60; 
workmgmen becoming, lessens mo- 
bility of labor, 63 

Household problem — 

Of English-speaking workmen, xo6 

Housewives — 

Efficient and inefficient, 63, 74, 75, 
76, 77. 78, 79, 80, 108, X09 

Housing conditions, 19, 24, 25, 26, 27, 

4^, 47, 131, 135, 136, 137; in Munhall 
Hollow, 18, 19, 26, 27; overcrowding 
decreases with higher wages, 52, 53; 
typical, dted, giving rent and wages, 
49, 50. See also Overcrowding 

Housing of employes, 18, X9 

Housing ordinances- 
Inadequate, 25 

Human relationships, X07-117 

Hungarians. See Slats 



Improvements in process — 

Recompense paid men for i»actical 
suggestions leading to, 174 

Income — 

Increased by lodgers, En^ish- 
speaking families, 107, 108, (Tables) 
2ox; increased by lodgers, Slavic 
fwmlies, 42, 140, 142, 143, 144, X57, 
(Tables) 2ox; increased by other 
means than lodgers, Slavic families, 
X42, (Tables) 201; sons' contribu- 
tions to, 125, 126, (Tables) 201. See 
also Wages 

Industrial conditions, 31; at time ol 
strike of 1892, 7; determine type of 
family life, 107 ; effect of, on dvic and 
family Ufe, 4, 35, 36, 37, 39, 4©, 41. 
42, I7X, 172, 173, 178, 179, 180, x8i, 
182, 183, 184; summed up, 31, 33 

Industrial development, 4, 5, 13 

Industrial Insurance Funds of Ger- 
many, 58 

Industrial outlook, 128; Slavs' in> 
fluence on, X28 



284 



INDEX 



Industrial suppression- 
Inertia the effect of, lo, ii, 173, 

i74» i7Si 176, i77» 1781 184; outcome 
of strike of 1893, zo, 11, 175, 176 

Inertia — 

Effect of industrial suppression, 10, 
II, 173, 174, 17s, 176, 177, 178, 184 

Infant mortality, 25, 26; among 
English-speaking Europeans, (Table) 
146; among native whites, (Table) 
146; among Negroes, (Table) 146; 
among Slavs, (Table) 146, 147 

Instalment — 

Bujring on, 85. See also Credit; 
Expenditures for instalment on home 

Insurance — 

Benefits under, 96; expenditures 
for, 89, 92, 95, 96; important item in 
fainlly budget, 95; in fraternal or- 
ganizations, 90, (Table) 91 ; in regular 
companies, 90, (Table) 91 ; in Slavic 
fraternal organizations, 161, (Table) 
163, 163; number of persons insured 
in 90 budget families and per cent of 
faxniUes carrying insurance — ^by ex- 
penditure group, (Table) 91; number 
of persons in 90 budget families in- 
sured in legular companies and 
lodges — ^by rsicial group, (Table) 91; 
per cent of budget families carrying, 
90, (Table) 91, 92; premium pay- 
ments continued during depression 
1907^08,* 97; provisions for, univer- 
sal, 97; ratings on men employed in 
iron and steel industry, Appendix X, 

243 

Insurance, expenditures for, 82, 83, 
(Table) 84, 89, 92, 95, 96, loi, 102, 
103, 104, 105; by Engli^-speaking 
Europeans, (Table) 44; by expendi- 
ture group, (Table) 45; by native 
whites, (Table) 44; by Negroes, 
(Table) 44; by Slavs, 140, 157, 
(Tables) 44, 152, 156; during de- 
pression of 1907-08, 97, (Table) 98 

Intemperance, 27, 28, 112, 113, 173; 
among Slavs, 140, 149; evil of town, 
109; the women's battle against, 109 



Isolation of Slavs, 14, 15, 164, 167, 
168, 180, 181 



Kennywood Park, 30 

Kindergartens, 123 

Kloman's mill — 

Absorbed by Carnegie Steel Com- 
pany, 5 



Labor element — 

Antagonistic to H. C. Frick, 8 

Labor unions. See Trade unions 

Leasing system- 
John Munhall Estate, 58 

Letts. See Slavs 

Life at $1.65 a day, 138-144; eco- 
nomic problem of married Slavs, 140, 
141, 142, 143, 144; economic problem 
of single Slavs, 138, 139, 140, 143; 
possibilities of, 179, 180 

Lincoln Place, 19 

Liquor. See Intemperance; Sundries 

Literature — 
Available, 88 

Lithuanians. See Slavs 

Livelihood — 

Prospect of an independent, for 
steel workers, 182, 183, 184 

Location and description of town, 3, 

4, S, 17, 18 

Lodgers — 

Income increased by, in English- 
speaking families, 107, 108; income 
increased by, in Slavic families, 42, 
140, 143, 143, i44» 157; per cent of 
Slavic families taking, 142, (Table) 
143. See also Boarding houses 

Lodgers. See Fraiernal organitations 



Magyars. See Slavs 
Make-up of the town, 13-33 



Margaret Morison Carnegie School, 

I2S 



285 



INDEX 



Margiii— 

Minimum wage required to assure 
practical, i8i, 182, 183, 184; reason- 
able, above expenditures for necessi- 
ties, 105 

Marginal expenditures, 81, 82, 83, 
(Table) 84, 85, 86; as shown in 
typical budgets, 82, 83, 84 

McClnre Homestead, 4 

McKeesport water supply, 24 

Meal»~ 

Irregularity of, 64 

Medical inspection — 

None in Homestead schools, 120 

Medicine, Expenditures for, 82, 83, 
(Table) 84, 87, xox, 102; during de- 
pression of 1907-08, (Table) 98 

Membership, dues and benefits— 
Of 9 Slavic societies in 1908, 
(Table) 162 

Men employed in Homestead mill — 

Bv racial group and degree of skill, 

(Table) 40; classified according to 

skill, citizenship, etc., March i, 1907, 

Appendix m, 214 

Mendicants, 37 

Menu. See Bitt of fare 

Mesta Machine Company, 19 

Methods of budget study- 
Appendix 1, 187 

Midwives, 87 

Mill— 

And the household, the, 1 71-184; 
and the town, the, 3-32; attitude of 
employes toward, 174, 175, 176, 177, 
178; attitude of newspapers toward, 
88, 176; attitude of stockholding 
employes toward, 176, 177; character 
of Slavic labor in, 134; conditions of 
work in, 171, 172, 173, 174; hours of 
work in, 36, 171, 172; mental fatigue 
caused by work in, 173; no duld 
labor in, 127; officers, formerly work- 
men, 177; per cent of married Slavs 
employed in, 180; per cent of skilled 
and unskilled Slavs employed in, 134, 



^Sh 153; per cent of Slavs tMnpAoyed 
^» 133 > pro^iect of promotioQ in, 
134, 174, x8o, 182; site, 5; superin- 
tendent of, 177; wages for week in, 
171, 180, i8z, 182, 183; wages in, 
compared with bituminous mines, 
181. See also Indusinal sUuoSmh 



Minor household expenditures, 82, 
83, (Table) 84, 86, 87, loi, 102, 103, 
ZQ4, X05; during depression of 1907- 
08, (Table) 98 

Miscellaneous expenditures. See 
Other expenditures; Sundries 

Modem Woodmen, 96, 113 

Morality— 

Of Slavic community, 148, 149; 
of town, xio. See also Disorderly 
houses; Intemperance 

Moving pictures. See Amusements, 
public 

Munhall, 178; Cam^e Land Com- 
pany houses in, x8, 48; schools, 120; 
taxes, 20-22, (Table) 20; town plan 
of, 46; water supply, 24, 178 

Munhall Estate, John, 18, 19, 26, 27; 
leasing system, 58 

Munhall Hollow- 
Housing conditions in, 18, 19, 26, 
27; no pi2>lic improvements, 19 

Municipal finances, 21, 22 

Municipal water supply, 23, 24 



National distinctions among Slavs, 
133 

National Vacation Bible School 
Committee of New York, X2i 

Native whites — 

Expenditures of, for food, 70, 
(Tables) 44, 68, 69, 72; expenditures 
of, for fud, (Table) 44; expenditures 
of, for insurance, (Table) 44; expendi- 
tiures of, for other items, (Table) 44; 
expenditures of, for rent, (Tables) 44, 
50, 52; expenditures per week by, 
(Table) 44; infant mortality among, 
(Table) 146; owning homes, (Table) 



286 






INDEX 



57; wages of skilled and unskilled, 
(Table) 40; weekly wage of, (Table) 
38. See also general tables and Ap- 
pendix II 



Expenditures of, for food, 70, 
(Tables) 44, 68, 69, 72; expenditures 
of, for fuel, insurance, and other iteniis, 
(Table) 44; expenditures of, for rent, 
(Tables) 44, 50, 52; expenditures per 
week by, (Table) 44; infant mortality 
among. (Table) 146; owning homes, 
(Table) 57; social position of, 14; 
wages of skilled and unskilled, (Table) 
40; weekly wage of, (Table) 38. See 
also general tables and Appendix II 

New York Central System, 29 

Newspapers — * 

Attitude of, toward mill, 88, 176; 
expenditures for, during depression of 
1907-08, (Table) 98 

Nickelodeons. See Amusements 

Nurses — 

No school, 120; no visiting, 87 

Nutrition Investigation, Report on — 
By Frank P. Underbill, Ph. D., 70, 
71, 141 



Odd Fellows, 115 

Officers — 

Mill, formerly workmen, 177 

Offices- 
Women in, 125 

Order of Elks, 113 

Ordinance — 

Borough, regulating sanitary con- 
ditions, 25; ajOfecting railroads in- 
effective, 29. See also Hotising ordi- 
nances; Sanitary ordinances 

Other expenditures: The budget as a 
whole, 81-106. See also Sundries 

Overcrowding — 

Absence of specific regulation con- 
cerning, 25; decreases with higher 
^^^1 S^j 53 > effect of, on Slavic 
children, 145, 146, 147; in Slavic 



families, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, i43i 
144; number of persons per room 
in 21 courts — Families which took 
lodgers compared with families which 
did not, (Table) 144. See also 
Congestion 



Parents — 

Interest of, in school, 118, 119, 120; 
ambition for daughters, 127, 128; am- 
bition for sons, 126, 127, 128 

Parlor. See ''Front Room'* 

Pay Friday, 37 

Pennsylvania Act- 
To enable borough councils to es- 
tablish. Appendix V, 218 

Pennsylvania lines, 29 

Pensions — 

Fund set aside by United States 
Steel Corporation to provide, 95, 
Appendix XII, 249 

Philanthropic movements — 

Attitude of workmen toward, 178 

Pinkertons — 

In strike of 1892, 9 

Pittsburgh- 
Cost of living in. Appendix IX, 
237; water supply, 24 

Pittsburgh and Lake Erie tracks, 29 

Pittsburgh, Virginia and Charles- 
ton tracks, 39 



Playground! 

School, 120, 121 

Poles. See SIoik 

Political divisions. See Borough di- 
visions 

Political situation, 22, 23 

Politics— 

Among Slavs, 165, z66 

Population — 

Congestion of, 46, 47; congestion 
of, amoxig Slavs, 135, 136, 137; effect 
of transient, on dvic efficiency, 15; 



287 



INDEX 



dementa of, at time of strike of 1893, 
5i 6; dementa of, cause of diange in, 
15; elements of present, 3, 4, 12, 13, 
14; native and foreign bom in four 
boroughs of Allegheny Count^,(Table) 
13; native and foreign bom m Home- 
stead, (Table) 13; preponderance of 
males in, 15; segregation of present, 
into groups, 14. See also Housing 
conditions 

Prevention of work-accidents, 
movement for, 93, 93 

Privy vaults, imflnshed. See Toiitts 

Profits of industry— 

Not reinvested in Homestead, 31 

Promotion- 
Prospect of, among Slavs, 134, 180; 
prospect of, in mill, 134, 174, x8o, 182 

Protected Home Circle, 113 

Prodenttal Insurance Company, 96; 
rates for iron and sted workers, Ap- 
pendix X, 243 

PttbUc- 

Indifference of, to sanitary condi- 
tions, 26 



Railroad grade crossings, 29 

Rauschenbusch, Walter — 

Christianity and the Social Crisis, 
88 

Real estate dealers — 

Numb^ of house owners increased 
by considerateness of, 31 

Recreation, Expenditures for, 89, 
no; during depression of 1907-08, 
(Table) 98 

Religious life of Slavs. See Church 
influences 

Rent— 

And food — Relative expenditures 
for, in different radal groups, 70 

Rent, Expenditures for, 48, 49, 50, 

SI. 52, S3, S4, SS, 82, 83, (Table) 84, 
loi, 102, 103, 104, 105; by English- 
speaking Europeans, (Tables) 44, 



SO, 52; by expenditure group, (Ta- 
bles) 45, so, 52; by native whites, 
(Tables) 44, 50, 52; by Negroes, 
(Tables) 44, 50, 5*; by Slavs, 140. 
141, 157, (Tables) 44, 5©, 52, 152, 
156; determined by wages, 51, 52; 
during depression of i907'-o8, 43, S3t 
198; in the household budget, 46-62; 
of 77 house-renting families — avenge 
amount and percentage of total ex- 
penditure — by radal and eiq>enditare 
group, (Tables) 52 

Roumanians. See SUns 

Royal Arcanum, 96, 113 

Russians. See Slam 



Saloons. See Intemperance 

Sanitary conditions — 

Borough ordinance regulating, 25; 
indifference of public to, 26; oi 
schools, 119, 120; responsibility for 
poor, 26, 27 

Sanitary ordinances- 
Lack of leadership necessary to 
obtain, 178 

Sanitary regulations — 

Lack of, 23, 24, 25, 26, S3 

Savings, 89, 100; absence of, in bud- 
gets during depression of 1907-08, 97; 
advantages of, 98; cost of, in heaXth 
and pleasure, 79, 100, zoi, 102, 103; 
drawn from bank during depression of 
1907-08, by racial group, (Table) 99; 
object of, 97 

Savings bank accounts — 
Of Slavs, 153, 156 

Schedules — 

Facsimiles of cards, 188-191 

Schooley, M. P., 27 

Schools — 

Carnegie Technical School in Pitts- 
burgh, 124; commercial, 125; domes- 
tic sdence in, 78, 122, 123, 125; 
evening, 123, 124; evening, for Slavs, 
166; fadlities of, 119; high, 120; 
instruction in, 120; interest of pa- 
rents in, 118, 119, 120; kindergarten, 



288 



INDEX 



X2a; manual training in, 122, 123, 
124; Maigaret Moriaon Camegje, 
125; Munhall, 120; new buildingSi 
1 19; no medical inspection and 
nurses in, 120; parochial, 159, 160; 
playgrounds, 120, 121; sanitary con- 
dition of, 1x9, 120; vacation, X2i. 
See also Carnegie L&rary educational 
classes 

Schwab Manual Training School, 78, 
122, 123, 178 

Service, Expenditures for— 

During depression of X907-08, 
(Table) 98 

Seven-day labor — 
Appendix Vm, 236 

Sewerage system — 

In Homestead, 23 

Sick benefits. See Benefits 

Skating rink. See Amusements, public 

Skilled and unskilled- 
Wages of, English-speaking Euro- 
peans, native whites, Negroes and 
Slavs, (Table) 40, 41. See also Ap- 
pendix IV 

Slav Organized, The, X58-168 

Slavic boarding-houses — 

Expenditures for food in, 139, 140; 
overcrowdmg, 136, 137, X38, 139, 
140, 143, 144 

Slavic books — 

Carnegie Library, 166 

Slavic children — 

Education of, 159, 160; effect of 
overcrowding on, 145, 146, X47; 
future prospects of, 148; traixiing of, 
148 

Slavic churches, 133 

Slavic community- 
Moral tone of, 148, 149 

Slavic courts. See Housing conditions 

Slavic families — 

Average expenditures of, (Tables) 
X40, X52: average expenditures of, 
compared with other races, (Table) 



156; per cent of, taking lodgers, 142, 
(Table) 143 

Slavic Fellow Citizens, Our— 
By Emily Greene Balch, 13 

Slavic fraternal organizations, X58, 
x6o, i6x, 162, 163, X64; affiliated 
with national organizations, 163; 
amusements of, 163, 164; benefits 
paid by, 161, (Table) 162, 163; 
msurance in, x6i, (Table) 162, 163; 
nationalities segregated in separate 
lodges, 164 



Slavic hom; 

Expenditures for food in, X41; 
typical, 145, iS^ 

Slavic household — 

Notes on a typical, 154, 155 

Slavic organizations — 

In Homestead, Appendix XIV, 271 

Slavic parochial schools, 159, x6o 



19 



289 



Slavic 

Overwork and lack of care during 
confinement among, 147 

Slavs- 
Ambitions of, X34, 153, X55, X56; 
Americanizing, 167, x68; amusements 
of, private, 149, 150, 151; amusements 
of, public, 151; as neighbors, X55; 
attitude of, toward education, x6o; 
bank accoimts of, 153, X56; capacity 
of, for social advancement, 151, 152, 
iS3» ^SS, 157; Carnegie Library 
Clubs open to, 166, 167; character of 
work of, in mill, 134; church in- 
fluences on, 152, 158, 159, x6o, x6x; 
congestion of population among, 1^5, 
1361 137 1 description of district 
occupied by, 131; economic problem 
of married, on $1.65 a day, 140, X41. 
142, 143, 144; economic problem of 
sbgie, on $1.65 a day, 138, 13^, 140, 
X43; elements composing immigrant, 
131 ; employment of, quickly affected 
by depression, 135; evening schools 
for, 166; expenditures of, for clothing, 
X40, 142, IS7, (Tables) 152, 156; 
expenditures of, for food, 70, 140, 157, 
(Tables) 44, 68, 69, 72, 152, 156; 
expenditures of, for food per capita, 
141; expenditures of, for fuel, 140, j 



INDEX 



157. (Tables) 44, 152, 156; expendi- 
tures of, for furmturei 140, 142, 
(Tables) 152, 156; expenditures of, 
for insurance, 140, 157, (Tables) 44, 

152, 156; expenditures of, for other 
items, 140, 157, (Tables) 44, 152, 156; 
expenditures of, for rent, 140, 141, 
157, (Tables) 44, 5©, S^, 152, 156; 
expenditures per week by, (Tables) 
44, 152; general situation, 138; 
illitenury of, 166, 167; inadequate 
water supply, 136, 137; income of, 
increased by lodgers, 42. 140, 142. 
143, Z44, 157; income of, increased 
by other means than lodgers, 142; 
infant mortality among, as compared 
with other groups, 145, (Table) 146; 
infant mortality among, cause of, 147; 
influence of, on civic and industrial 
future, 128; intemperance among, 
140, 149; isolation and lack of 
assimilation of, 14, 15, 164, 167, 168, 
z8o, 181; midwives enjoyed by, 147; 
mode of living among, 132, 153, 134, 
138, 139, 140; national distinctions 
among, 133; number of, in Home- 
stead, 132; old-world customs anwng, 
150; owning homes, (Table) 57, 152, 

153, 155! per cent of. employed in 
nuU, 13^; per cent ot married, em- 
ployed in mill, 180; per cent of 
skilled and unskilled, 134, 152, 153; 
politicsof, 165, 166; privation among, 
caused by depression of 1907-08, 135; 
problems of the, 129-168; prospect of 
promotion of, in miU, 134, 180; reli- 
gion of, 152, 158, 159, 160; sooal life 
of, 149, 150, 151, 163, 164; style of 
dressing among, 150, 151; tempera- 
ment of, 133; wages of, 153; wages of 
skilled and unskilled, (Table) 40; 
weekly wage of, (Table) 38; why 
immigrate, 131, 132. See also general 
tables and Appendix II 

Slovaks. See Slavs 

Social expenses, 87, 88 

Social features — 

Fraternal organizations, 113, 114, 

"5 

Social life— 

Of Slavs, 149, 150, 151, 163, 164. 
See also Amusements 

Social reform in America — 
Strongest impetus toward, 4 



Social relationships. 

relaiionskips 

Socialism — 

An individual hope for 
men, 176 



See H 



Contribution of, to income, 125. 
126; parents' ambition for, 126, 127, 

Z28 

St. Magdalene Parochial School, 159 

Standard of Living among Work- 
ingmen's Families in New Toik 
City, The— 

By Robert Coit Chapin, 51, 52, 67, 
70, 103, 104, los, 142, i3i 

Standards of living— 

Determining factors in, 39, 40; 
lowered by undue economy, 84, S5, 
86. See also FamUy ideals 



Steel 

Dangers attending, 36; general 
process of, 35; hardships attending, 
35» 36; hours of labor in, 36, 171, 172; 
men paid for suggestions leading to 
improvements in process, 174; Sun- 
day work, 35, 176. See also MUL 

Steel workers — 

Prospect of an independent liveli- 
hood for, 182, 183, 184 

Steel Workers, The— 

By John A. Fitch, 36, 42, 177 

Stevens, W. F.— 

Description of Cam^e Library, 
Homest^, Appendix XUI, 255 

Stockholders — 

Attitude of employes as, 176, 177 

Stores- 
Women in, 125 

Strike of 189a— 

Beginning of the, 8; churches 
founded before, 6; effect of, on trade 
unionism, 11; elements of population 
at time of, 5, 6; general industrial 
conditions at time of, 7; hopelessness 
and inertia result of, 10, 11, 174; in- 
dustrial suppression outcome of, 10, 
II, 175, 176; inequality of wages at 



290 



INDEX 



time of, 7; keynote of, trade union- 
ism, 8; life during the, 9, 10; out- 
come of the, xo, 175; Pinkertons' 
part in, 9; question of equity in- 
vcdved in, xo, ix; trade unionism at 
time of, 4, 6 

Sunday dinner, 65 

Sunday work, 36, 176 

Sundries. Expenditures for, 81, 82, 
83, (Table) 84, 88, 89, 90, xoi, 102, 
103, 104, X05; by English-speaking 
Europeans, (Table) 44; by expendi- 
ture groups, (Table) 45; by native 
whites, (Table) 44; by Negroes, 
(Table) 44; by Slavs, 140, 157, 
(Tables) 44, X52, 156; during de- 
pression of X907-08, (Table) 98. 
See also general tables 

Superintendent of mill, X77 

Suppression. See Industrial suppres- 
sion 

Survey y The — 

Articles quoted, x8i 



Table and dixmer pail, 63-80 



Effect of borough divisions on, X9, 
20, 2x, 22, X78; Homestead, (Table) 
20; Munhall, (Table) 20 

Taxpayers' League, 27 

Tobacco, expenditures for^ 
82, 83, (Table) 84, xoi, X02 

ToUets— 

Indoor, 51, 55, (Table) 54; out- 
door, 25, sx, S3, 131, X37 

Town- 
Location and description of, 3, 4, 5, 

17,18 

Town Plan- 
Homestead, 46, 47; Munhall, 46; 
West Homestead, 46 

Town site. Homestead as a, 17-32 

Town's growth — 
Changes affecting, 128 



Trade tmionism — 

At time of strike of X892, 4, 6; 
effect of strike of x8o2 on, xx; em- 
ploye proposing, is mscharged, X75; 
keynote of strike of X892, 8 

Trade tmions, 4, 7, 8; beneficial effect 
of, on wages and hours, in bitumin- 
ous mines, x8x ; none to give common 
interest, X64; older men lack confi- 
dence in, X75, 176. See also Amal- 
gamated AssodoHon of Iron and Sted 
Workers 

Transportation facilities, 5 



Underbill, Frank P.— 

Report on Nutrition Investigation, 
70, 7x, X4X 

U. S. Bureau of Labor, 66 

United States Census, X3 

U. S. Commissioner of Labor, 52, 67, 

73 

U. S. Department of Agriculture, 69 

United States Steel Corporation — 
Accident relief plan of, 95, Appen- 
dix XII, 249; attitude of, X84; plans 
of, for prevention of work-acddents, 
92 

Unskilled work — 

Not always temporary stage, 4X 

Unskilled workers — 

Increase in number of, X79; per- 
manent factor in social life, x8o. See 
also Skilled and unskilled 



Vacation schools, X2i 

Ventilation- 
Absence of specific regulation con- 
cerning, 25 



Wage- 
Minimum, required to assure prac- 
I tical margin, x8x, 182, 183, X84 



291 



INDEX 



IVpes of, earning $12 a week or 
lesSf $12 to $14.99 ^ week, $15 to 
$19.99 ^ week, and $20 a week and 
over, 38-39 

Wages— 

Analysb of budget families by 
weekly. (Table) 36; beneficial effect 
of trade unions on, in bituminous 
mines, i8z; determine expenditure 
for rent, 51,52; family life dependent 
on, 41 ; for work in mill, 171, x8o, i8x, 
182. 183; inequality of, at time of 
strike of 1892, 7; mill, compared with 
bituminous mines, i8x; reductions 
in rate of, 42; regularity of, 42; scale 
fixed by Amalgamated Assodaticm of 
Iron and StMl workers, 6, 7, 8; 
skilled and unskilled, (Table) 40, 41: 
Slays, 153; sliding scale of, introduced 
in 1889, 7; weekly, of English-speak- 
ing Europeans, natiye whites, Ne- 
groes, Slavs, (Table) 38 

Waihing machines, 87 

Water supply- 
Inadequate in Slavic district. 236, 
137; McKeesport, 24; Munhall, 24, 
178; municipal, 23, 24; Pittsburgh, 

Water, running — 

In houses, 24, 48. f i, (Table) $4, 
j8; in house, and mdoor closets, 
families haviiig, by weekly rent, 
(Table) 54; outside houses, 24, 25, 

48, 511 53, 131. 136, 137 

Water system — 
In Homestead, 23 

West Homestead, 4, 18, 19; town 
plan of, 46 

Westinghouse Electric Works — 
Girls employed in, 125 

Whitaker, 19 



In o£Bces, 125; in stores, 125; ia 
Westinghouse Electric Works, 125; 
sddom work outside home, 41, 107, 
125 

Women's clubs — 

Activi ti«, 1x4, X16, X2X, X22, Ap- 
pendix Xlil, 264 

Work- 
Conditions of, in mill, X7X, X72, 173, 
274; hours of, in miU, 36, X7x, 172; 
mental fatigue of mill, X73 

Work, wages and the cost of liying, 

35-45 

Wori[-accidents, 92; burden of loss in, 
95, 96; compensation for, 94, 95, Ap- 
pendices XI and Xn, 245, 249; com- 
pensation paid by Carnegie Sted 
Company for, 94, (Table) 95, Appen- 
dix XI, 245; movement for preven- 
tion of, 92, 93; movement of United 
States Sted Corporation for relief of, 
92, Appendix XII, 249; newqiaper 
reports of, 93; no compensation tor. 
paid families of aliens, x6x; plans of 
United States Steel Corporation for 
relief of victims of, 95, Appan^x 

xn, 249 

Work-accidents and the Law — 
By Crystal Eastman, 93, 95 

Workingmen — 

Attitude toward philanthropic 
movements, 178; opportunities tor 
buying homes given, 57, 58, 6x; own> 
ing homes lessens mobility of labor, 
62; why some do not own homes, 60, 
6x, 62. See also Hotise owners 

Workingmen's homes — 

Architecture, 47; gardens, 47, 48. 
See also Housing conditions 

Workmen's Compensation Act (Eng- 
lish), 96 



292 



THE SURVEY 



SOCIAL 



CHARITABLE 



CIVIC 



A JOURNAL OF CONSTRUCTIVE PHILANTHROPY 



THE SURVEY is a weekly magazine for all those who 
believe that progress in tnis country hinjges on 
social service: that legislation, city government, the care 
of the unfortunate, the cure of the sick, the education of 
children, the work of men and the homes of women, must 
pass muster in their relation to the common welfare. 

As Critic, The Survey examines conditions of life and 
labor, and points where they fail : how long hours, low pay, 
insanitary housing, disease, intemperance, indiscriminate 
charity, and lack of recreation, break down character and 
efficiency. 

As Student, The Survey examines immigration, industry, 
congestion, unemployment, to furnish a solid basis of fact 
for mtelligent and permanent betterment. 

As Program, The Survey stands for Prevention: Pre- 
vention of Poverty through wider opportunity and adequate 
charity; Prevention of Disease through long-range systems 
of sanitation, of hospitals and sanatoriums, of good homes, 
pure food and water, a chance for play out-of-doors; Pre- 
vention of Crime, through fair laws, juvenile courts, real 
reformatories, indeterminate sentence, segregation, discip- 
line and probation; Prevention of Inefficiency, both industrial 
and civic, through, practice in democracy, restriction of 
child labor, fair hours, fair wages, enough leisure for reading 
and recreation, compulsory school laws and schools that 
fit for life and labor, for the earning of income and for 
rational spending. 



EDWARD T. DEVINE - - - EDITOR 

GRAHAM TAYLOR - - ASSOCIATE EDITOR 



105 EAST 22D 

STREET 

NEW YORK 



$2.22 YEARLY 



RUSSELL SAGE FOUNDATION PUBLICATIONS 

THE PITTSBURGH SURVEY 



WORK-ACODENTS AND THE LAW 

9y CRYSTAL EASTMAN 
AtlamcT^t4^wt SccMtary Ncv York Sut« IndurtrUl Accident Coamki 

Dorlns the year stodiedt fire htmdred industrial wage-earners 
were kill^ at &eir work in Allegheny Coonty, Pa« The story of 
their hazards is dramatic and compelling* 

8vo, 350 pases 1 3S f tfU-page iOisstratioiia by "O^^^ O^n-i-^^ iJ C f ^7 f 
LewlB wTmne, Joteph StdU. and ©then. ^^^Cf rOStpaiO^ ;^i./l 

HOMESTEAD; THE HOUSEHOLDS OF A HILL TOWN 

^ MARGARET P. BYINGTON 
AaateUnt SmetmUay, CbmHtj Orcaiiisatioo Dcpartmrat, R«m^ Sac« Focmd&tloo 

A dearly drawn picture of the home and community life of the 
steel workers* 

u^'wrC;*jiSriuKd*^e5: P^ce, Postpaid, $X.70 

THE STEEL WORKERS 

99 JOHN A. FITCH 
Forowffy Espcflt» New York Dcpftrtmcat off L«f>or 

A study of the men who make steel by one who lived amoii£ 

£s;^c;'ji^riar^^2*ricc» postpaid, sut 

The eatire set of the Plttsbtirsh Survey ▼oltitnest to be isstsed at $1*50 
net each* will be aa followat 

THE PITTSBURGH DISTRICT— Sympoihim by John R. Goounoni, Pfcrcacc KdUy, 

RobcH A. Woods, Pttcr Roberts, Charles Mulford Kobfaison and others. 
THE STEEL WORKBRS—Tohn A. Phch. 

HOMESTEAD: THE HOUSEHOLDS OF A MILL TOWN—Margarct F. ByingtoQ. 
WOMEN AND THE TRADES-EIizAbcth Bcardalcr Butler. 
WORK-ACCIDENTS AND THE LAW-Crystal Eastman. 
PITTSBURGH t THE GIST OF THE SURVEY-Paul U. KeOogg. 

CHARITIES PUBLICATION 

105 East 22d Street* New York 



The moat afgntficant piece of investigation the coontiy ham 
— ^^ American Magasine* 

The findings of the Pittsburgh Surrey are to be pubUstiie>ci in 
six volumes during 1910^ under the editGurial direction of Pa.€sl U. 
Kelloggt Director of the Pittsburgh Survey* Four of these Bcxiks 1 
are now ready: 

WOMEN AND THE TRADES 

99 ELIZABETH BEARDSLEY BUTLER 
PoRDtr Sccrctarf ol the Consumers' Le^[uc of Ncv Jeraey 

The first general survey of the occupations open to wa^^- 
earning women in an American city* 

8vo, 440 pages; 40 fuU-page iHisstratioas T>^-^ I>^e4-«%^1^ Cf ^^ 
of womenVt their work, bV Lewis V.Hine. ^^<^ Postpaid, $Uy-^ 



'• » 



RUSSELL SAGE FOUNDATION PUBLICATIONS 

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS 

By LUTHER HALSEY GULICK, M.D.. and LEONARD P. AYRES, Ph.D. 

THE first American work on a subject of the utmost im- 
portance to educators, physicians, parents, social workers and 
boards of education. 

The only source of information as to what medical inspection is and 
does, its history, its status, and the means and methods employed. 

An important contribution to the cause of education. — Journal of Education. 

Lucidly exhaustive and admirably arranged, the monograph will assist in the 
great work, scarcely begun, of supplying the sound body that is needed for the 
sound mind. — The Nation, 

aS6 Paoss; 6 Charts; 64 Fomie; 31 Tables. iTlCQ, rOStpaiQ, $ 1 .00 

• 

LAGGARDS IN OUR SCHOOLS 

A STUDY OF RETARDATION AND ELIMINATION IN CITY SCHOOL 

SYSTEMS 
By LEONARD P. AYRES. Ph.D. 

VO«1CXltLT OENESAL SX7PBSINTENDENT OV SCHOOLS FOR FOSTO RICO AND CHISr OF THE DIVISION OF 
STATISTICS OF THE INSULAR DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION; SECRETARY OF THE BACKWARD 
CHILDREN INVESTIGATION OF THE RUSSELL SAGE FOUNDATION', OO-AUTHOR 
OF ICEDICAL INSPECnON OF SCHOOLS, ETC. 

A SIXTH of all the children in American city school systems 
are repeating grades, at an expense to the taxpayers of 
f 27,000,000; large foreign populations do not produce the highest 
percentage of this "retardation"; physical defects account for 
only 9 per cent of it; irregular attendance is one of the largest 
factors; the child who starts youngest makes slowest progress, 
but stays longer in school — these are some of the striking points 
brought out by Mr. Ayres's study. 

Your book, " Laggards in Our Schools/' has rendered a most real service to public 
education in America. — Wm. H. Maxwell, Supi, of Schools, New York City. 

asa Pages; 106 Tables; 38 Diagrams. rHCe, 1 OStpfllQ, $1.50 



AMONG SCHOOL GARDENS 

By M. LOUISE GREENE, M.Pd., Ph.D. (Yale) 

AN exceedingly interesting and thoroughly practical book on 
"school gardens," including those conducted by associations 
in public parks and at the homes, as well as gardens carried on in 
connection with regular school work. Based upon personal study 
and observation, by the author, of school garden work throughout 
the United States and Canada. Beautifully illustrated. 

One of the most important school books of the season. — Journal of Education. 
A convincing document of the utility of making gardening a part of the school 
work. — IVashinglon Star. 

tr^/iS^Jl^XA ^^ Price, P ostpaid, $1.25 

CHARITIES PUBLICATION COMMITTEE 

105 EAST 22D STREET, NEW YORK 



RUSSELL SAGE FOUNDATION PUBLICATIONS 



HOUSING REFORM 

A Handbook for Use in American Cities 
By LAWRENCE VETT.T.KR 

Sccrttarr Tcocmcnt Houm Coaunlaaioo of f900t Dtputy Comrnhriwacr New Yotk Ten 
Ho««w DcputOMnt under Matot S«th Low t Ditcdtar D^MUtmcat for the Impfoveacnt 
of SoeUl CoodiHotte of the New York Charity Ofganltttton Sodetyf Jolat 
Author The Tenement Pkobkmt Director Nettonal HouMng A aa o cUtto n, 

As Mr. de Forest points out in the introduction, tbis book is 
written by ''the person most competent by knowledge and experi- 
ence to deal with the subject*^' Mr* Veiller is qctafified as a 
reformer* as **2l lobbyist in behalf of the conmion welfare*'* as a 
ptfblic official* to treat housing reform in a practical way* He 
tells not only the need but the remedy* and how to secore it* 



CONTENTS 

FOREWORD, BY ROBERT W. de FOREST 

L HofSBlnff Evils and Their Sfgntflcancc* 

n* Some PopcfUr Fattadei. 

ni* Congestiaa and Overcrowding. 

rV* The Housing Problem a Thiee-fold One. 

V. How to Start a Movement for Hocsslng Reform. 

VI. The Ftfffnt^nff of a Housing Investigation. 

yn . S^odel Tenements and Their Limitations. 

Vm. Mtmicipal Tenements and Municipal Regulation. 

IX. Fitiimt&t Principles of a Housing Law. 

X. What a Housing Law Should Gmtain. 

XI. The Enforcement of Housing Laws. 

Xn. How to Secure Legislative Reforms. 

Xin. The Field of Private Effort. 

XIV. A Chapter of '^Don'ts.*' 

Sample Schedules for Housing Investigations. 
Indcs. 

220 Pages; Price, Postpaid, $I«25 



SOME SENTENCES FROM HOUSING REFORM 

No growinff American cltv, however free from tenements now* can afford 
to be without DuUding regulations* to prevent dark rooms and unsanitary 
con<^ons. 

No housing evUs are necessary; none need be tolerated. Where they 
exist they are always a reflection upon the intelligence* rightmindedness and 
moral tone of the community. 

Reforms not based upon carefully ascertained facts will be fotmd to 
have no permanent value. The breastworks which defend the law are made 
of the materials dug out in the investigations. 



CHARiriES PUBLICATION 

(05 E. 22cl Street, New York 



MiM 



TTEE 



2904 0-42 



: N 




HAt I'isW 



^ 



DATE DUE 




Bylngton 



7232 



I 



ET 

S. 



INDEX 



Wage-earners — 

Types of, earning $12 a week or 
less, $13 to $14.99 & week, $15 to 
$19.99 & week, and $20 a week and 
over, 38-39 

Wages- 
Analysis of budget families by 
weekly, (Table) 36; beneficial effect 
of trade unions on, in bituminous 
mines, 181; determine expenditure 
for rent, 51,52; family life dependent 
on, 41; for work in miU, 171, 180, i8z, 
182. 18^; inequality of, at time of 
strike of 1892, 7; mill, compared with 
bituminous mines, 181; reductions 
in rate of, 42; regularity of, 42; scale 
fixed by Amalgamated Association of 
Iron and Steel workers, 6, 7, 8; 
skilled and unskilled, (Table) 40, 41; 
Slavs, 153; sliding scale of, introduced 
in 1889, 7; weekly, of EngUsh-speak- 
ing Europeans, native whites, Ne- 
groes, Slavs, (Table) 38 

Washing machines, 87 

Water supply — 

Inadequate in Slavic district. 136, 
137; McKeesport, 24; Munhall, 24, 
178; municipal, 23, 24; Pittsburgh, 

M 

Water, running— 

In houses, 24, 48, 51, (Table) 54, 
58; in house, and indoor closets, 
families having, by weekly rent, 
(Table) 54; outside houses, 24, 25, 

481 Sif 53, i3i» 136, 137 

Water system — 
In Homestead, 23 

West Homestead, 4, 18, 19; town 
plan of, 46 

WestinghoQse Electric Works- 
Girls employed in, 125 

Whitaker, 19 



In offices, 125; in stores, 125; in 
Westinghouse Electric Works, 125; 
seldom work outside home, 41, 107, 
"5 

Women's clubs — 

Activi ties, 114, 116, 121, 122, Ap« 
pendix XHI, 264 

Work- 
Conditions of, in mill, 171, 172, 173, 
174; hours of, in mill, 36, 171, 172; 
mental fatigue of mill, 173 

Work, wages and the cost of living, 

35-45 

Work-accidents, 92; burden of loss in, 
95, 96; compensation for, 94, 95, Ap- 
pendices XI and Xn, 245, 249; com- 
pensation paid bv Carnegie Steel 
Company for, 94, (Table) 95, Appen- 
dix XI, 245; movement for preven- 
tion of, 92, 93; movement of United 
States Steel Corooration for relief of, 
92, Appendix XO,, 249; new^>aper 
reports of, 93; no compensation for, 
paid families of aliens, 161; plans of 
United States Steel Corporation for 
relid of victims of, 95, Appendix 
xn, 249 



Work-accidents and the 

By Crystal Eastman, 93, 95 

Workingmen — 

Attitude toward pbilanthipmc 
movements, 178; opportunities for 
bu3ring homes given, 57, j8, 61; own- 
ing homes lessens mobihty of labor, 
62; why some do not own homes, 60, 
6x, 62. See also House owners 

Workingmen's homes- 
Architecture, 47; gardens, 47, 48. 
See also Housing conditions 

Workmen's Compensation Act (Eng- 
lish), 96 



292 



