Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 



Flora Kelly Van Sciver 
Book Fund 



J 



II 10 
ISO 






HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN 



AND 



HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDR 



rONTAINlNG 



HOUSEHOLD RECIPES OF EVERY DESCRlFTlOii, 

AS WELL AS 

HINTS FOR THE MANAa£M£NT OF THE STOREROOM, 

LAUNDRY, HOUSEKEEPER'S DEPARTMENT, THE 

NURSERY, SICK-ROOM, THE TOILET. 

FAMILY DYES. 



BY 

FLORA NEELY. 



THIRD EDITION, REVISED. 



NEW ROCHELLE, N. Y. 

THE PARAGRAPJJ. PRESS 

PUBLISHERS , 



f > 






Copyright by 
FLORA NEE L Y 

1878 AND 1910 



Ttmw DIRECTORY 

PftfNTma AlW BOOKBINDIfvQ COMPANY 

NEW YORK 






DEDICATED TO 

THE MEMORY OP 

MY MOTHER AND SISTER 

MRS. ELIZABETH AKIN NEELY AND 

MRS. SOPHIE NEELY COLTON. 

THE AUTHOR. 



PKEPACE. 



This book is intended to meet the wants of all those 
who wish simple food, and those who wish the richest. 
All recipes have been tested, or examined by compe- 
tent housekeepers. The book is more complete in its 
departments than many others. It is not only a cook- 
ery book, but a guide to good housekeeping in aU its 
branches. 

I do not think it is neccGijiiiy to tell the public how 
to give breakfast, Inncli, unH dmncr parties. 

Those who can afford to have a caterer would not 
look in a cookery book for advice, and those who live 
moderately had best do as their friends do, making 
whatever improvement they can in the way of cook- 
ing. 

For the convenience of purchasers and the inexpe- 
rienced, I have mentioned some prepared articles in 
the different departments — not as advertisements, but 
things from experience we know to be good. 

Those living in flats or rooms will find all they want 

iu this book 

F.N. 



\ 



CONTENTS. 



PAQI 

To Purchase Articles for Cookery 13 

Gravies 18 

Broths 20 

Cullises 21 

Ragotlts 23 

Bisqnes 25 

Soups 28 

Fish ^AS 

SheUfish 65 

Meats 75 

Made Dishes. 107 

Poultry and Game 123 

Sauces for Meats, Fish, etc 144 

Vegetables 155 

Salads 169 

Pickles 174 

Egrgs, Omelets, etc 181 

Bread, Biscuit, Breakfast-Cakes 184 

Puddizigs, etc 195 

Pies, etc 221 

Sweet Sauces 2iJ0 

Cakes 234 

Jellies, Jams, etc 258 

Creams, Ice-creams, and Ices 37ft 



8 CONTENTS. * 

PAOl 

Domestic Wines, Cordials, etc 287 

Cofifee, Tea, Chocolate, etc 293 

The Storeroom. Directions for Canning and Preserving Arti- 
cles of Food : 296 

TheLaundry 307 

For Housekeepers 312 

Dyeing 317 

The Wardrobe 319 

The Toilet. . . .' 822 

The Nursery 326 

The Sick-room 386 



HAND-BOOK FOR THE MTCHEN 



AND 



HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 



PftEFATORY REMARKS. 

Meaty povltryy or fish^ that has been frozen, must be 
thawed gradually, by keeping in a warm kitchen, or put- 
ting in warm water. 

Meaty or poultry ^ or game^ that has been hung for any 
length of time, must be washed with a little strong salb and 
water before dressing. If the meat has a strong scent, 
rub into it a little strong distilled vinegar, leave it for a few 
minutes, then wash with salt and water. 

Fish must always be kept in a cool place ; do not keep 
it more than two days. 

Codfish and Maddoch should always be hung. 

When you have meat, poultry or game, which will not 
be likely to keep, by parboiling it you can keep it two or 
three days. Then, when you roast or boil it, it will not take 
the full time. 

Apples must be kept in a dark, dry place, free from air ; 
place them on a board, a little way apart. 
1* 



10 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

JPears ahould always be hung up by the stalks. 

Currcmts must be well washed and dried, stones and 
sticks removed; before using, dredge a little flour over 
them. 

Potatoes and Artichokes (Jerusalem) must be kept in a 
dark, dry cellai*. 

OniJ, should be strung on twine, in a ve.7 dry place. 

Eggs. — When used, always beat the whites and yolks 
separately. 

Sago. — Before you use it, soak it in water for an hour. 

Sweet herbs must be kept in paper bags, each bag con- 
taining only one kind. Dry them in the wir^^ not in the 
sun^ and never use more than the quantity mentioned. 

Sread and Cake should always be kept in tin boxes or 
stone jars. 

Sugar must be well pounded, and sifted through a lawn 
sieve, and kept dry. 

Orcmge cmd Lemon Ped. — ^When you use orange or 
lemon juice, chop the peel, put it into pots, and tie it down, 
for use. 

Beefy Mutton^ and Venison must never be overdone. 

Veal and Pork may always be well done. 

F\sh must be quite done. 

Pastry should always be of a pale gold color. 



WBIOHTB AND MEA8UBBB. 



11 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Dry Measwre, 

Brown sugar, powdered, 1 lb. 2 oz.. is equal to 1 quart. 
White *< " 1 " 1 « 

Loaf « broken, 1 " « << 

Eggs, 10 eggs are 

Butter, when soft, 1 lb. 
Wheat flour, 1 lb. 

Indian meal, 1 lb. 2 ozs. 



<c 


(t 


t( 


(( 


€i 


C( 


are 


t€ 


lib. 


• 

18 


it 


1 quart. 


ii 


€i 


€i 


u 


€t 


a 



IJiquids, 
4 large tablespoonfuls are equal to 

g CC (( ti 

Common wineglass holds 
Large « « 

Common-sized tumbler holds 
Tablespoonfa] 
40 drops 



Igill. 

2 ounces. 

i pint. 

i ounce. 

1 teaspoonfuL 

1 tablespoonfiil. 



4 teaspoonfuls 
A spoonful always means a tablespoonful. 
A glassful of any liquid (unless the size and kind is men 
tioned) always means a wineglassful. 



TO PURCHASE ARTICLES FOR 

COOKERY. 



Observations. 

In purchasing meats, always remember that '^ the best ia 
the cheapest." The cheap cuts generally include the large 
bones and sinews ; such joints are used for soups or gravies. 
For roasting and boiling choose the prime joints, such as 
legs of veal and mutton, sirloin, ribs, and round of beef. 

It is necessary for every lady who uses this book to study 
thoroughly the prefatory remarks, and also those for pur- 
chiasing provisions — in fact, all the observations should be 
read. 

To Choose Fish. 

Fresh-water fish may be chosen by the firmness of the 
flesh and the clearness of the eyes. 

Cod. 

If the fish is good, the flesh must be white, stiff, and firm, 
the gills red, the eyes clear and fresh, and the whole fish 
must be firm and thick. 

TURBOT. 

The fish should be thick and firm, and the under-side 
must be of a yellowish white ; when it is very transparent 
blue or thin^ it is not good. 



to pubouase abticles fos coosest. 13 

Salmon 

Should have a fine red flesh and gills ; the scales should 
be bright, and the whole flsh firm. 
The same rules applj to any fish. 

Lobsters. 

The heaviest are considered the best, ard to defcermine 
their freshness, press your finger on the eyes, which will put 
the claws in motion. After they are boiled you may deter- 
mine their freshness by the elasticity of their tails. 

Crabs. 

The heaviest are best, and when perfectly fresh, the joints 
of the legs will be stiff, and the body will have a pleasant 
smell. If the eyes should be dull, you may be sure they 
have been long caught. 

Oysters and all Shell-Fish. 

Do not buy oysters or any kind of shell-fish, unless the 
Rhell is firmly closed. If at all open, they are not fresh. 

To Choose Meats. 

Ox-beef, when it is young, will have a fine open grain 
and a good red color ; the fat should be white. 

The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the lean scarcely so 
lod as that of ox-beef. When you see beef of which the fat 

r 

is bard and skinny, and the lean of a deep red, you may sup- 
pose it to be of an inferior kind ; and when the meat is old, 
you may know it by a line of homy texture running through 
the meat of the ribs. 

The chuck, rib, brisket and round, are the least desii'abla 
They may, however, by proper cooking, be of equal flavor 
The sirloin and middle ribs are the best for roasting, and re- 
quire to be well cooked, without being overdone. Pieces 



14 HAND-BOOK FOK THE KITCHEN. 

weighing from eight to ten pounds will require two and one- 
half hours to cook before a clear €re or in a moderately 
heated oven. 

Mutton 

Must be chosen by the firmness and fineness of the grain, 
its good color, and firm, white fat. 

Lamb 

Will not keep long after it is killed. The vein in the 
neck is bluish, when the meat is fresh, but green when 
it is stale. In the hind quarter you may discover its condi- 
tion by examining the kidney and the knuckle, for the 
former has a slight smell, and the knuckle is not firm, when 
the meat has been long killed. 

Veal 

Is generally preferred of a delicate whiteness ; but it is 
apt to be more juicy and well flavored when of a deeper 
color. When you choose veal, look at the loin, and if the 
kidney, which you will find on the under-side of one end of 
the loin, be deeply enveloped in white and firmlookinj, 
fat, the meat will certainly be good and recently killed. 
The kidney is the part which changes first, and then the suet 
around it becomes soft, and the meat flabby and spotted. 

Venison, 

When young, will have the fat clear and bright, and tliis 
should also be of a considerable thickness ; when you do 
not wish to have it in a very high state, a knife run into 
either the haunch or shoulder, and drawn out, will by the 
smell enable you to judge if the meat is sufficiently fresh. 

If you wish to keep venison after it has begun to get 
tainted, place the meat in a hollow dish, and strew over it 



TO PtTBOHASE ABTI0LE8 FOR. COOKERY. 15 

some fresh burnt charcoal powder, enough to cover it half 
an inch thick. 

Pork 

Should have a thin rind, and when it is fresh the meat is 
smooth and cool ; when it looks flabby and feels clammy, it 
is not good. If there are many enlarged glands or kernels 
in the fat, the pig has been diseased, and the pork is not 
wholesome. 

Bacon 

Snould have a thin rind, and the fat firm, and of a red- 
dish color ; the lean should adhere flrmly to the bone, and 
have no yellow streaks in it. When you purchase a ham, 
have a knife stuck in to the bone, which, if the ham is well 
cured, may be drawn out again without having any of the 
meat adhering to it, and without perceiving any disagreeable 
smell. A short ham is the best. 

To Choose Poultry. 
The age is the chief point to be attended to. 

Domestic Fowls. 

When the bird is young, you will find the legs and the 
comb to be smooth, and when old, they will be rough. 
Liower part of the breast-bone is hard when old. 

Turkey. 

The legs of a young turkey are smooth and black, and of 
an old one, smooth and of a reddish color. 

Duck. 

The feet of a duck should be supple, and their breasts 
should be hard and plump. Tame duck have yellowish feet, 
and wild ones have reddish. 



16 HA3BD-VOOC FDK TBS KUCHBX. 



When A haxe is joong and feesh, die deft in. tiin lip in 

BDOodi and aharpL 



Geese. 

VHieD. young the feet and hills hare few hairs an them, 
and are of a yellowish color, and the feet pliable. When 
oLdy the feet and hiUs are red, and when some time killed, 
the feet are dry and stiC Geeae are called green nntil they 
are two or three months old. 

PiGKOSS. 

When they hxve been long killed, they look discolored 
and flabby abont the under-parts. If young, the feet will be 
supple, and stiff when old. Pigeons should not be eaten 
when they are not fresh. A taoie pigeon is larger than a 
wild one. 

Partridge 

Should not be eaten before September ; when young, the 
\eg/i are yellow, and the bill of a dark color. 

Eggs. 

Put them into water, and if the butts turn up, they are 
not fredi. 

To Kkow Good Flour. 

When of the best quality it holds together in a mass, 
when squeesed by the hand, and shows the impressions of 
the fingers much longer than when it is bad ; and the dough 
made with it is gluey, ductile, and elastic, and easily 
kneaded, and may be drawn in every direction withoat 
breaking. 



to fijb0ha8b abticles f0& oookebt. 17 

Apples and Pears. 

The heaviest are always the best ; they must yield a orack- 
lisg sound when pressed by the finger ; large apples are best ; 
keep them on dry straw, in a diy place, or arrange them in 
such a way on a shelf that they will not touch each other. 
Pears the same. 



GRAVIES, BROTHS, CULLISES, AND 

RAGOtTTS. 



Gravy for Koast Beef. 

Put slices of cold roast beef, with the bones broken, in one 
pint of boiling water. Simmer until the strength is exhaust- 
ed, strain off the liquor and add to it whatever gravy you 
have in gravy-boat or dish ; stir in a little browned flour, 
simmer until smooth. 

Gravy for Boast Meat. 

Take the roast from the pan, return the pan to the Are, 
stir in with a spoon a dessertspoonful of flour, smooth and 
mash the flour, add a little boiling water ; stir, adding as re- 
quired until the gravy is well cooked ; season to rule for 
different kinds of roasts ; strain. If the meat is lean, add 
butter with the flour. 

Beep Gravy for Soup, etc. 

Put some minced raw beef in one pint of water over the 
fire, add cold roast beef with the bones broken, gravy from 
boat, boil gently ; add a sliced onion, pepper, unground 
cloves and allspice, thyme, savory, simmer two hours, take 
off the fat ; add boiling water if necessary, some fine crumbs. 
Strain and keep cool for use. By adding boiling water, 
this is soup. 



ORAVIBS, BROTHS, CULLISESj AND BAOOAtS. 19 

Beep Gravy foe Soups and RAoo^rs. 

Put slices of fat bacon in the bottom of the kettle^ add 
slices of lean beef, minced onions ; let it stew until the 
gravy is all drawn from the beef and browned without 
burning ; add grated carrot, cloves, leek, parsley, and celery, 
pepper, and some broth. Boil gently until rich. Strain 
and keep corked for use in ragouts and soups. 

Veal Gravy for BagoAts and Soups. 

A knuckle of veal with some rough cuts in a saucepan, 
cover with Iboiling water ; boil gently one hour, add salt, 
pepper, onion, carrot, parsnip, and whole cloves ; add more 
water ; boil until the meat is cooked away ; add some broth, 
some minced parsley and celery ; simmer ten or dfteen min- 
utes ; strain, take off the fat, keep cool for use. Keep the 
meat well seasoned for forcemeat balls. 

Mutton Gravy. 

A shoulder, breast, or neck of mutton, seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Roast until about half cooked ; put it in a 
saucepan with some broth, and simmer until you can press out 
all the juice ; press it and strain the liquor into jars, keep in 
a cool place for use ; make forcemeat, well seasoned, of tho 
meat. 

Fish Gravy. 

Have the fish scaled and drawn, well washed, cut oif the 
gills and eyes; put the fish in a pan with chopped onion, 
carrot, parsnip, herb, and salt ; fry them in butter, add some 
flour, let it brown ; add some fresh broth, simmer, strain and 
press out all the liquor ; season with pepper, cloves, herbs ; 
more salt if necessary, strain, and add the juice of a lemon. 



20 HAND-BOOK FOB THE XITCHSN. 

MUSHBOOM GrAYT. 

Wash and skin them, fry them in butter, add some floar ; 
let it brown ; add some veal broth ; boil gently, season, add 
juice of a lemon. Strain, keep cool for use. 

Chicken Broth. 

Use fowls one year old, clean and draw tLem and cut into 
joints ; put them in three quarts of water with a little salt ; 
boil gently until tender. Skim while boiling ; add white 
pepper and mace, and when partly done two ounces of rice ; 
when the fowl is quite done take it out and serve with white 
sauce ; when the rice is well cooked strain the broth through 
a colander. 

Barley Broth. 

Wash three-fourths pounds of barley with a partly boiled 
knuckle of veal ; add two onions, half a turnip sliced, celery, 
salt, and pepper ; boil gently until the barley is tender ; take 
out the meat ; season the broth with red and black pepper 
and salt to taste; add two tablespoonfuls of port wine. 
Keep the meat for forcemeat or croquettes. 

Vegetable Broth. 

Wash two quarts of dried peas and boil them in two quarts 
of water until tender (it is best to soak dried peas over- 
night), strain and squeeze them through a colander into 
your soup-kettle ; put in six carrots, parsnips, and onions ; 
parsley, roots, herbs, cloves, salt and pepper, and a bunch of 
sorrel ; boil gently until all are quite tender ; strain ; while 
boiling you must add boiling water as required to make the 
broth. 

Maigre Broth. 

Put six young turnips, carrots, one leak, six onions, two 
beads of celery, two cloves, salt and pepper, in six quarts 



GRAVIES, BROTHS, OUIXISES, AND RAGOUTS. 21 

of boiling water; boil until all are exhausted; add one 
tablespoonful of browned flour beaten with two of butter. 
Simmer ten minutes and strain for use. 

Beef Bboth. 

A leg of beef with the bones broken. Boil in four quarts 
of water; salt and pepper; boil until the meat separates 
from the bones ; add minced onions, carrots, and parsley ; 
simmer; mince the meat and add some bread-crumbs and 
yolk of egg ; season to taste for forcemeat ; put the meat 
in the bottom of your tureen and strain your broth over. 
If you keep for use, put in covered jars; keep cool. 

Lamb Bboth. 

Boil a knuckle of lamb in two quarts of water. When 
partly cooked add barley or rice ; boil gently until the meat 
loosens from the bones ; season with salt and pepper and a 
little minced parsley. Strain. 

Broths for Breakfast. 

Boil a knuckle of veal, lamb or mutton, or an old fowl in 
two or more quarts of water ; season with salt and pepper, 
boil until the meat separates from the bones. Take out the 
meat, season and save for forcemeat ; strain off the broth. 
Add boiling water until of the right strength. 

CuLLis of Fish. 

Boil several pounds of fish that have been scaled and 
cleaned ; cut them in pieces and put them in a kettle of 
boiling water, with salt, pepper, herbs, three cloves ; boil 
gently until the flesh separates from the bones ; strain off 
the liquor ; you make three kinds of flsh broth with this 
liquor. Browned : for soups seasoned with mushrooms and 
lemons sliced, thickened with browned flour and butter. 



22 HAND-BOOK FOB THE EITCHKN. 

Second, for white soups thickened with pounded almonds 
and yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Third, to be used in fish 
soups and ragotts thickened with the herbs that have been 
boiled in the broth, and the fish seasoned served as a course 
of fish, or made in fish-jellj with veal-bone well boiled and 
seasoned with lemon-juice and parsley. 

Veal and Ham Cullis fob Brown Soup and Bago^ts. 

Three slices of ham in the bottom of your soup-kettle, with 
three pounds of lean veal cut thin, some sliced onion, carrot, 
parsnip, and parsley. Stew gently until the juice is thickened 
and brown, add melted fat bacon, dredge in a spoonful of 
flour ; move the kettle while browning to keep it from burn- 
ing, add broth and season with four cloves, one leek, parsley 
and a bay-leaf, add some bread-crumbs, simmer about twenty 
minutes, strain off the cullis. 

Bbef Cullis for Soups and Baoo^ts. 

Wash and season four pounds of lean beef, roast it ; whilo 
hot pound it to a paste in a mortar, with roast fowl or car. 
casses of turkeys ; moisten with gravy and put it over the 
fire with cloves, thyme, and lemon ; add more gravy, boil 
gently ten minutes, strain. 

White Cullis. 

Take the flesh from a roasted fowl, pound the white meat 
with four hard-boiled eggs ; put some slices of ham in the 
bottom of a saucepan, with slices of veal over; sliced onioi, 
carrot, and parsnip ; stew gently. When dry pour in some 
broth, put in all but the white meat of a chicken, some 
mushrooms, part of a leek, some parsley, and two cloves, 
some bread-crumbs, simmer. When well cooked, take out 
the veal and ham, and put in the pounded white meat and 
eggy stir in, simmer. 



SRAVIES, BROTHS, 0ULLISE8, AND RAGOUTS. 2Z 

CuLLis OP Game. 

Boast one-half dozen or more sufficiently to loosen the 
flesh, take the meat from the bones and pound it in a mor- 
tar ; scrape and melt some fat bacon in a saucepan ; put in 
some truffies, mushrooms, and herbs, stew them, moving the 
saucepan to keep from burning; put in the pounded meat 
of the game, and add some gravy, veal, simmer. - 

CuLLis OF Boots. 

Put some parsley roots, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced 
over the fire in some gravy, stew gently, pound with al- 
monds and bread-crumbs, season with salt and pepper; 
strain while hot. For soups and ragouts. 

Bago6t op Veal. 

Cut the meat from a breast of veal and brown it in but- 
ter, pour in some stock, an onion stuck with two cloves, 
salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, boil gently until the veal is 
tender ; thicken the gravy with flour beaten with a little 
butter ; stew until the flour is cooked. 

Bagout op Lamb. 

Out the meat from the bones in regular pieces, brown it 
ill butter in a saucepan, add some broth, salt and pepper to 
taste, cloves, thyme and parsley, boil gently until the meat 
is tender, thicken the gravy, and add some veal cullis. 

Bagoi&t op Fish. 

Out up the fish, take out the bones ; put some mushrooms 
with butter and cream into a saucepan. When the butter 
is melted put in the fish, some shred parsley, a little grated 
nutmeg, simmer. Add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, 
Btir gently about fifteen minutes, place the flesh in a dish, 
and pour the ragout over. 



24 HAIID-BOOK FOB TH£ KITCHEN. 

KagoDt of Oysteus. 

Put the oysters over the fire in their own liquor, lei 
them get hot ; take tliem out separately, and place them in 
a dish, simmer some mushrooms in melted bacon, moisten 
with fish gravy, simmer, and thicken with veal gravy, put 
m the oysters and serve hot. 

E^GOtyT OF Cauliflowers. 

Take off the green stalks; wash them and drain. Put 
them in a saucepan with some veal and ham cullisJ Stew 
gently until tender, thicken with tablespoonful of butter, 
one-half as much flour, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. 

EAGot^TT OF Onion. 

Put some slices of bacon with slices of beef, spice, herbs, 
lemon-peel, pepper and salt to taste, put in one dozen on- 
ions, cover the pan tight, and stew until all are tender. 

Kago^t of Cucumbers. 

Pare them, cut them lengthwise; take out the seeds, 
slice them, and season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and 
sliced onions ; let them stand two hours ; melt some bacon 
in a saucepan, put in the cucumbers, stew gently ; add some 
veal gravy, skim off the fSaL 



BISQUES. 



BiSQUB OF LOBSTEB. 

Two quarts of veal broth ; cut up two boiled lobsters, ]a7 
aside the spa^m ; beat the fins and small claws in a mortar ; 
boil them in two quarts of water ; when the strength is 
exhausted, strain off the liquor, beat the spawn in a mortar 
with one pound of butter and a little flour. Hub them 
through a sieve into the broth, and simmer for ten minutes, 
add some lemon juice ; chop some of meat of the lobster, 
and add it to the spawn with bread-crumbs, and yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs, a little mace, shape them into balls, roll 
in flour, dip in beaten yolk of egg, roll in cracker- or bread- 
crumbs, fry a nice brown and add them to the soup, pound 
the coral in a mortar, moisten with broth, stir to a pulp and 
add it to color the soup before putting in the balls, chop 
the remaining lobster-meat and serve with lettuce or celery 
with a nice sauce ornamented with some small red claws. 

Bisque of Oystebs. 

One hundred fine oysters, with all the juice ; two quarts 
veal broth ; put twenty-five of the oysters in a saucepan 
with two ounces of fresh butt«r ; set them over the fire to 
brown ; add the juice of all the oysters to the broth ; add 
some of the broth to the oysters in the saucepan, with some 
butter and flour. Simmer and add to the soup with some 
2 



26 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN. 

lemon-juice and celery. Fry the remaining oysters and 
serve with a good salad as third course. 

Bisque of Pigeons. 

Make a rich broth, by boiling six pounds of good beef; 
add a knuckle of veal, with salt, pepper, and cloves. Make 
a gravy by putting some fat bacon in the bottom of your 
saucepan, with one-quarter pound of butter ; put five or six 
slices of lean veal on the bacon, and set it over the fire ; 
let brown slowly ; when it is becoming dry add some of the 
fat from your broth. Shake the saucepan, do not stir it ; 
put the crusts of two French rolls into the veal gravy, and 
boil; then strain the gravy through a sieve, pressing the 
bread through ifc. 

Fry six squab pigeons, and boil them in the broth with 
some cocks' combs, until tender ; the cocks' combs will take 
one-half hour longer than the pigeons ; blanch a sweet- 
bread in hot water, cut it in pieces and fry them in butter, 
with the smaller of the cocks' combs; add the bread and 
gravy to your broth, and strain. Garnish the dish with a 
rim of pastry ; put the cocks' combs and some bread soaked 
in gravy round ; place the pigeons in the centre, boil up the 
cuUis of cocks' combs, and sweetbreads, and pour over. 
Serve the broth in tureen, with any seasoning of roots and 
herbs you wish. 

Bisque of Pullet. 

Draw and truss the pullet ; blanch it in hot water, put 
strips of bacon round it, and boil it in a good broth of beef 
and veal, with onion, cloves, and slices of lemon ; skim 
while boiling ; when tender, keep it hot over steam, and 
make a ragout with the veal, some sweetbreads, mush- 
rooms, and truffles, artichoke bottoms cut in small pieces, sim- 
mered in a saucepan with some bacon and veal gravy ; skim 



BISQUES. 27 

off the fat, simmer some crusts of bread in some grary ; 
dish the fowl in the centre and pour the ragout over. 

Bisque of Quail or other Game. 

Draw, truss and blanch the birds, put some fat bacon in 
the bottom of the stew-pan with some butter, put the birds 
in and place them over the fire, let them brown slowly. 
Put them in a pot with some good broth, larded with 
bacon, some sweet herbs, cloves, and other spices ; and some 
rich, juicy lean beef that has been beaten, some lean bacon 
and slices of lemon ; boil all gently over a moderate fire. 
Garnish the bisque with a ragotlt of veal, sweetbreads), 
artichokes, mushrooms, with a rim of the finest cocks^ combs 
round with the veal cuUis over it. 

Bisque of Fish. 

Clean a large fish, scale and draw it, take off all the fiesh 
from the bones ; mince it with some mushrooms ; add 
butter, salt, and pepper, sweet herbs, and some fish-broth ; 
simmer. 

Make a ragout with some melts and livers of fish ; the 
meat from crabs simmered in some fish broth, with some 
dried crusts, put the bisque in the dish surrounded with 
the soaked crusts, and pour the ragotit around. 

Bisque of Crabs. 

Wash and boil them ; take out the meat from the large 
olaws, and from the body ; put all the remainder of the 
erabs into a mortar and pound them fine ; boil them in two 
quarts of water until all the flavor is exhausted ; strain off 
the liquor ; add it to two quarts of veal broth ; chop the 
meat, add some fine cracker-crumbs, some butter, lemon- 
juice, salt, and pepper, yolk of raw egg ; roll in flour, fry 
a nice brown and serve in soup ; season all with pepper and 
salt to taste [one dozen crabs]. 



SOUPS. 



Obsbbyatioks. 

In making soi.ps, particularly portable soup, vermicelli or 
brown gravy soup, always put the meats in the bottom of 
the kettle with some fat bacon, butter, or lard, to keep them 
from adhering and burning. Cut the roots very fine, and 
place them on the meat. Cover closely. Simmer slowly to 
extract the substance of meat and herbs. When done pour 
some good gravy over them. The soup will have a better 
flavor than if water was poured in first. Simmer until the 
gravy is almost cooked away, then fill in boiling water. Let 
it boil up and take off the fat. Follow carefully the direc- 
tions given for each kind of soup. 

Stock fob Brown Soups. 

The kettle must be kept thoroughly clean and dry. With 
rough cuts of beef put in some pieces of salt butter. Cut 
up the lean beef ; add one-fourth the quantity of lean bacon ; 
add a little water to keep it from burning ; cover tightly ; 
cook slowly until all the gravy is extracted and condensed* 
When you wish to use it add as much boiling water as you 
require for your quantity of soup; add onions, parsley, 
summer savory, thyme, and cloves. Boil slowly several 
hours. This is the foundation for all brown and gravy 
soups. 

You can make a rich stock for soups from brown bones, 



B0UF8. 29 

turkey and fowPs carcasses, veal an:, xoast beef remnants and 
gravies. Add carrot, parsley, onion, pepper, salt, cloves, 
herbs, fill your kettle with boiling water; simmer slowly 
until all the substance is exhausted ; strain off the liquor, 
and. boil to a jelly ; keep in a cool place for use. You can 
make any kind of soup by adding the flavoring required, 
*ice, barley, tomato, etc. 

Beef Soup. 

Make a stock with a leg of beef cut in parts, knuckle of 
veal, small piece of ham-bone ; boil several hours with six 
quarts of water, some salt Add ribs of roast beef gravy, 
browned bones of steak, remnants of chicken or turkey 
gravies, etc. Add leek, onion« carrot, turnip, herbs, parsley, 
black and red pepper ; add boiling water when required. 
Simmer until the substance is all exhausted. Strain ; take 
off the fat. 

Retain as much of the stock as you require for the day ; 
add water if necessaiy ; add one-third can of tomatoes : 
Bixnmer one W, .tZl, add macaroni, boUed and cut ul 
pieces about two inches long ; season to taste ; serve. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Boil down the remaining stock ; keep in a cool place to 
reduce, and use for various soups, according to flavor. 

Vegetable Beef Soup. 

Boil four pounds of marrow-bone of beef in six quarts of 
water two hours ; add one dozen onions, one-quarter of a 
cabbage, four carrots, four turnips, one dozen nice potatoes, 
celery, parsley, thyme, pepper and salt. When the meat is 
very tender, take it out, dredge flour over it, baste it with 
ihe marrow from the bone, and some butter, brown it in thf 



30 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITOHEN. 

oven. Mince the vegetables ; add some boiled barley, if yov 
wish, to the soup. 

Soup de Sant^ . 

Three pounds of lean beef boiled in three quarts of water ; 
add salt and pepper, oloves and mace ; boil two hours ; add 
knuckle of veal and a pullet ; add more boiling water, and 
a small piece of bacon. Boil until the fowl is tender ; take 
it out ; keep it hot on steam. 

Make a gravy ; put some thin slices of bacon in the bot- 
tom of the saucepan. Place some lean veal on them ; add 
some butter ; simmer until the gravy is brown and nearly 
dr}' ; add some fat from the top of the soup, three 
sliced onions, one carrot, two turnips minced parsley, 
thyme, salt, pepper, and cloves. Brown them; add some 
mushrooms and some of the soup ; strain ; add minced celery 
and lettuce that has been boiled in some of the broth, 
thicken with fine bread-crumbs. Strain the broth to this, 
and serve in tureen. 

Serve the pullet on toast, with some of the broth poured 
over, or with white sauce. 

S^UP DE SaNT36 MaIGRE. 

Slice four onions, two turnips, one carrot, parsley, thyme, 
wliole pepper and cloves, fry them in butter. Add some 
mushrooms, some three quarts of water in which green peas 
or spinach has been boiled, or merely boiling water ; boil 
aiitil the vegetables are tender ; thicken with browned flour, 
simmer a few minutes ; strain ; fry some crust? cut in dice, 
and serve in the soup. 

Soup Parisienne. 

Four pounds lean beef, two pounds marrow-bone ; boil 
in four quarts of water, salt and pepper to taste ; one snial] 



SOUFS. 31 

leek, two onions stuck with cloves, half small carrot, half 
small turnip. Boil gently until the meat is quite tender ; 
take it o'lt and serve on table, cold ; strain the soup into 
the tureen over some bread cut in dice. 

Soup Julienne. 

Gut all the fat from a roasted leg of mutton ; put the 
meat in the soup-kettle, with three pounds of beef and some 
lean veal and a fowl, four quarts of water ; boil until the 
fowl is tender ; take it out, keep it hot on steam. Add two 
carrots, two parsnips, two large onions stuck with cloves ; 
boil until the vegetables are cooked ; add water to keep up 
the quantity. Boil a bunch of asparagus in some of the 
broth ; place some slices of dried bread on your dish, place 
the fowl on it surrounded by the boiled asparagus, pour 
over some of the broth or a white sauce. Keep hot for a 
second course. Strain the soup into your tureen ; serve. 

Bisque Soup. 

Put a breast of veal and. half-dozen pigeons, a fowl, and 
three pounds beef in your kettle, with four quarts of water, 
salt. Boil until the meats and pigeons are tender; take 
them out, keep hot ; add a bunch of soup -herbs, one carrot, 
one parsnip, one onion stuck with four cloves, parsley and cel- 
ery ; add sufficient boiling water to keep the quantity four 
quarts. Boil a bunch of asparagus in some of the broth, to 
garnish the chicken and veal ; place them on dishes on toast, 
put the asparagus round, pour a rich white sauce over, keej; 
hot. Put the pigeons in a pan with some butter on them , 
dredge flour over, sprinkle pepper, a little salt, and a very 
little ground cloves mixed with the pepper; baste with but- 
ter and a little lemon-juice ; brown them crisp, serve them 
with thd gravy thickened with browned flour poured ovet 
them; garnish with iVesh parsley. 



39 hand-book fob the kftohen. 

Cock 1 Leekie Soup. 

In six quarts of rich beef stock, boil an old fowl until 
tender ; add six leeks, one-half pound of prunes, boil two 
hours and a half. Serve the fowl on toast ; mince the leeks. 
Serve the soup hot. 

A Rich White Soup. 

In four quarts of water boil one-half pound of lean veal, 
one-half pound of bacon, one onion, two cloves, a blade 
of mace, a head of celery, bunch of soup-herbs, one dozen 
whole white pepper ; boil gently, moving the kettle to keep 
the soup from burning; add some mushrooms and four 
ounces of butter, some flour stirred in milk ; simmer until 
the thickening is smooth ; strain, remove the fat ; add some 
boiled vermicelli and serve. 

Ox-Tail Soup. 

Three tails cut in joints, boil in enough water to cover 
them ; boil gently, season with salt, skim while boiling ; two 
onions, four cloves, teaspoonful of white pepper, a little red 
pepper, two carrots, good bunch of parsley. Simmer gently 
until the meat is tender ; take it out and pour some of the 
gravy over ; add as much water as required ; this soup must 
be rich; thicken with browned flour, strain. Serve the 
tails on toast. 

Gravy Soup. 

Five pounds of leg of beef sawed into small joints ; take 
out the marrow and put it in the bottom of the kettle ; put 
the beef on it and add four quarts of water ; add salt, boil 
two hours, add pepper, two onions, four cloves; thyme, 
savory, marjoram, fried ; two blades of mace, some allspice 
and pepper, whole. Boil until the meat is tender ; take it 
out, take off the fat; add minced celery, carrcft, turnip, 



SOUPS. 33 

boiled spinach and endive, one spoonful of mushroom catsup, 
and a fried French roll. 

CuEEY Soup. 

Meat from the ox cheek, parboil it ; put it in the kettle, 
boil one hour ; add four sliced onions, thyme, savory, mar- 
joram, and three quarts of water ; boil until the meat is 
tender ; add a cup of soaked rice, salt, pepper, butter, and a 
teaspoonful of curry powder. Simmer gently, strain. This 
soup takes about four hours. " You can add curry powder 
to any rich beef soup." 

Calves' Tail Soup. 

Three calves' tails cut in joints, a knuckle of veal, one 
slice of ham ; boil in four quarts of water until all are ten- 
der; add two onions, a little mace, thyme, savory, mar- 
joram, parsley, salt, black and red pepper. Simmer until 
well seasoned, take out the meat, strain. 

Pigeon Soup. 

Roast one dozen pigeons; remove the meat from the 
bones, pound them in a mortar, stew them in one-half pint 
of gravy, mix a spoonful of flour with two ounces of butter, 
add it to the broth; bunch of tarragon, chervil, onions, 
shallots, parsley, a little turnip, and carrot ; red and black 
pepper, mace and salt to taste ; add the gravy of the pi- 
geons and some water, simmer until smooth, strain, add the 
meat of the pigeons. 

Calf's Head Soup. 

Have the head split and cleaned as well as the foet. Boil 
them in four quarts of water about two hours, add soup 
herbs, salt, and pepper. Boil gently until the meat sepa- 
rates from the bones ; take out the meat ; strain the broth, 
2* 



84 HAND-BOOK FOR THB KITCHEN. 

add boiling water to make it equal to four quarts. Soup 
herbs, parsley, onions, cloves, mace. Simmer. Make forco- 
meat balls by mixing some of the meat with beef-suet and 
bread-crumbs, yolks of beaten eggs ; roll in flour and fry in 
hot lard and butter. Put the balls and some wine in the 
soup when ready to serve. Add some lemon-juice. 

MocK-TuRTLE Soup. 

Have a calfs head cleaned and split ; take out the brainB, 
tie them in a cloth, and boil them in a little water. Boil 
the head in three quarts of water; skim. When tender 
take it from the flre. Cut the meat from the bones ; mince 
the tongue ; chop the bones and put them back in the kettle 
with a knuckle of veal ; boil about two hours, add onions, 
carrot, turnip, black and red pepper, and salt ; add boiling 
water to keep up the quantity; simmer five hours. Put 
three spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, and when hot add 
three spoonfuls of flour ; let it brown, stirring, without burn- 
ing ; add shallots, minced parsley, basil, cives, soy, catsup, 
salt and pepper ; cook all crisp ; put them in the soup ; sim- 
mer until smooth. Add the meat to the soup with some 
hard-boiled eggs, sherry wine, and lemon-juice. 



Rabbit Soup. 

Put six ounces of butter in your soup-kettle ; six onions, 
sliced ; eight shallots, minced ; two rabbits, cut in join'^s ; 
add salt, pepper, and four quarts of water ; boil gently until 
tender, about one hour ; take out the meat and dredge each 
piece thoroughly with four spoonfuls of curry powder and 
one of turmeric; put them in soup, and add black and 
red pepper ; salt to taste ; lemon-juice ; boil one hour ; take 
jut the meat; strain. 



SOUPS. 3R 

GiBLET Soup. 

Clean and scald two sets of goose giblets; cut them in 
pieces and put them in three quarts of water, with one pound 
of soup-beef, soup-herbs, two onions, one-half teaspoonful ot 
white pepper, one-half tablespoonful of salt, peel of a lemon. 
Boil gently untiJ the gizzards are tender : strain. Put one 
ounce of butter in a saucepan with teaspoonful of flour; 
stir until a rich brown ; put it in the soup with cayenne 
pepper, salt, mushroom catsup; simmer; strain ; add juice 
of a lemon and a glass of Madeira wine. Mince the giblets 
and serve in the soup. 

Mock-Turtle Soup. 

Clean and split two calves^ heads; boil until the meat 
loosens from the bones; take out the meat and cut it in 
pieces ; boil a leg of beef cut in joints, in six quarts of 
water, until tender ; strain the liquor to that of the heads ; 
add salt, black and red pepper, a little curry powder, 
minced onions, mace, cloves, allspice ; simmer ; strain ; add 
butter and flour browned to thicken. Make forcemeat balls 
with the veal by mincing it with beef-suet and bread-crumbs 
mixed with beaten yolk of egg ; roll in flour and fry. Add 
them to the soup, with some of the meat minced ; add one 
pint of sherry wine, pint of brandy, pint of port wine, lemon- 
juice. This will make a large quantity of soup, which you 
can keep in a cool place for use, adding boiling water, if re* 
quired. 

MULLIGATAWNEY SoUP. 

Clean and split a calfs head ; put it in your soup-kettle 
with about one-third of the lower part of leg of beef in four 
quarts of water, with some salt ; boil until tender. Take 
out the meat and cut it in slices ; dip in beaten egg, roll iu 
bread-crumbs, and fry in butter ; simmer the bones several 



36 BAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN. 

Hours, strain and add boiling water to make it equal to fom 
qnarts ; remove the fat ; cut four large onions in sHces, and 
fiy them in butter, crisp and brown; add a spoonful of 
curry powder, teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, salt to taste ; 
add all to the soup, and simmer ; add a dessertspoonful of 
Harvey's Sauce, or not. 

Turtle Soup. 

Turn the turtle on^its back, and tie the fins ; cut off the 
head; let it remain twenty-four hours ; loosen the flesh 
round the edge, with a sharp knife. Take out the gall 
without breaking ; take out the liver, heart, and kidneys ; 
cut the entrails from the backbone, and put them in 
water ; cut off the fins, wash the shell, and turn it up to dry. 
Cut off the lean meat and reserve it to use when required ; 
cut the fat from the backbone, put it in a saucepan ; cut 
the white shell in pieces ; cut up the fins, and scald them 
with the head until you can remove the shells. Put all the 
shells in a saucepan with one dozen onions and a bunch of 
sweet herbs, fill with water, and salt ; boil until you can re- 
move the bones from the fins ; strain off the liquor. Cut 
part of the lean meat, and put it in a saucepan with two 
fowls cut in joints, and three pounds of lean ham, fill with 
water, add some salt, and boil until tender ; add one dozen 
onions, a bunch of turtle herbs, and one pound of mush* 
rooms, one bottle of Madeira wine, one pound of butter ; 
boil gently one hour; add the liquor strained from the 
head and fins ; take out the lean meat, keep it hot in a 
saucepan ; scald the entrails ; blanch them in cold water, 
cut them in pieces ; wash them thoroughly, and put them 
ifL a saucepan with some fat bacon, and stew gently three 
hours. Add three hard-boiled eggs cut in half, and force* 
meat balls made with the lean meat ; to add when ready to 
serve. Strain off the liquor into your tunjen, season with 



SOUPS. 37 

red pepper, cuiTy powder, lemon juice, and half a bottle of 
sherry wine, and some of the fat. 

You can fry the remaining lean meat. Serve the fowls 
with rich white sauce. 

Hessian Soup. 

Cut three pounds of lean beef in slices ; add three onions, 
five carrots, eight potatoes, one pint of split peas, boil 
several hours in four quarts of water ; add three heads of 
celery, salt and pepper; boil gently until rich. Serve 
hot. 

Venison Soup. 

Cut four pounds of venison from the bones, one pound 
of ham, sliced thin ; put it in a saucepan with sufficient 
water to cover it. Stew gently ; add salt and pepper, an 
onion minced. Skim when nearly tender ; add one quart 
of boiling water, a head of celery cut fine, three blades of 
mace and black pepper, two cloves. It will take about two 
and a half hours ; mix a quarter of a pound of butter with 
a teaspoonful of flour ; add it to the soup with half a pint 
of Madeira or Port wine, and some lemoD -juice. Strain^ 
mince the meat, and add it to the tureen. 

Chicken Soup with Tomatoes. 

Clean a large, old fowl, add some beef and veal bones, 
boil in four quarts of water, add salt and whole pepper, 
boil until the fowl is tender ; skim while boiling ; take out 
*iie fowl, add two large onions, a little thyme, some parsley, 
some rice, and half a can of tomatoes ; boil gently until the 
tomatoes and rice are well cooked, season with salt and pep* 
per to taste. Press all through a sieve or colander, add 
some butter and some bread cut in dices. 



38 HAND-BOOK FOS THE KITCHEN. 

Beef Soup with Tomatoes. 

Boil four pounds of lean beef in four quarts of water 
with bome salt; when tender add one carrot, half a turnip, 
four large onions, half a can of tomatoes, salt and pepper 
to taste ; simmer one hour ; add two ounces of butter rolled 
in flour. Strain ; add some boiled macaroni cut in pieces 
two inches long. You can use rice or vermicelli. 

Stock for White Soup. 

A knuckle of veal, a cairs head, an old fowl, lean mut- 
ton. Put some scraped fat bacon in the bottom of your 
kettle, place the lean meat on it, and simmer gently several 
hours until the substance is drawn out ; boil the knuckle, 
etc., in water with some salt, until the meat separates from 
the bones ; add the liquor from the lean meat, season with 
salt and pepper to taste ; mince three onions, two cloves, 
some parsley and celery, one carrot grated, one turnip ; sim- 
mer and strain. Keep cool for use. 

Portable Soup. 

Five pounds of leg of beef, two knuckles of veal, an old 
fowl, or not; put them in four quarts of water; boil gently 
until the meat separates from the bones. Cool, take off all 
the fat ; take out the meat, put the soup on the Are and 
add thyme, minced onion, salt, pepper, some carrot, sliced 
turnip ; simmer, strain when the soup becomes quite thick, 
put it in jars standing in boiling water over the Are ; let 
the water boil gently, carefully preventing any from entering 
the jars. When thick let them cool, and seal for use. 

Gumbo Soup. 

Cut an old fowl in joints ; pound the bones, etc. ; cut two 
young fowls in joints ; roll them in flour and fry them all 



&OUPS. 39 

in butter ; put some fat bacon in the bottom of your kettle, 
with some minced parsley and celery, an onion, one dozen 
ochras and some sweet corn; put in the chicken^ add I oiling 
water ; boil gently until the chickens are tender and soup 
rich. Season to taste. 

OcHBA Soup. 

Boil some veal, four or five pounds, in four quarts of 
water one hour. Add foi:r dozen ochras, six tomatoes, six 
small onions, one gi-een pepper, thyme, parsley, season with 
salt and pepper; boil gently six hours. Take out the 
meat, serve with white sauce and a salad. Strain the soup. 

Tomato Soup. 

Skin and slice two dozen tomatoes, slice and fry two 
onions, put them in a saucepan with their gravy and the 
onions, add a head of celery, three slices of cari-ot ; stew 
gently, add three pints of gravy ; pulp the vegetables 
through the colander, season with black and red pepper 
and salt to taste ; add as much boiling water as required, 
simmer, and serve hot with toast cut in dice. 

Soup op Savoy Cabbage. 

Cut three cabbages in quarters ; boil them in three quarts 
of water with salt ;. squeeze them out. Make a gravy with 
a knuckle of veal boiled several hours with salt. Boil the 
cabbage in some of the broth, add two minced onions, one- 
quarter pound of butter rolled in two spoonfuls of flour ; 
add the remaining broth; make forcemeat with the veiU, 
stuff two pigeons with it, parboil them and put them to 
stew with the cabbage. Put in the saucepan a piece of 
bacon stuck with cloves ; simmer until the pigeons are 
tender, skim off the fat, put some bread soaked in the 
brotii in the middle of the dish ; put the pigeons on, and 



iO HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

place some of the cabbage round, garnished with pieces of 
bacon. Pour all the broths together, season with salt and 
pepper, some herbs ; boil gently, strain, mince some of the 
cabbage with some of the forcemeat, and serve in the soup. 

Sago Soup. 

Put four ounces of butter in your soup-kettle with half 
a pound of lean ham, and three pounds of lean beef. Stew 
gently until all are light brown, moving the kettle to keep 
the meat from burning and adhering ; pour in three quarts 
of boiling water ; slice a large onion, and fry it with some 
soup-herbs, add them to the soup, with six blades of mace, 
teaspoonful of unground allspice, and teaspoonful of whole 
pepper ; boil until the substance is exhausted from the meat, 
and the soup is of a rich brown; salt to tast-e; thicken with 
sago; simmer; strain. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Boil a knuckle of veal with one pound of pork in four 
quarts of water ; when very tender season with pepper and 
salt ; strain. Keep the knuckle of veal hot, and serve with 
a rich white sauce, the corned pork on a dish. Put the 
liquor in the kettle with half a peck of green peas; boil 
until tender; pulp through the colander; to give a nice 
color you can boil some spinach, and add the liquor to the 
pea soup. Thicken with flour and butter, one teaspoonful 
of each rubbed together; season with salt and pepper to 
taste. Serve hot. 

Another Metliod. 

Boil half a peck of green peas in two quarts of water with 
a little salt.. When tender, take out one-third of the peas ; 
pulp the remainder through the colander ; put the soup on 
the Are, and add two ounces of fresh butter beaten with a 



SOUPS. *1 

spoonful of flour ; simmer until smooth ; season with salt 
and pepper to taste ; add the peas. Serve hot. 

If you have the water in which spinach has been boiled 
you can add sufficient to give the color of fresh green peas 

Pea Soup for Fish Days. 

Boil two quarts of peas until tender; take out half; add 
soup herbs to the soup; season with salt and pepper; 
squeeze the peas through the colander ; put the soup on the 
fire. Mix two ounces of butter with a spoonful of flour, stir 
it in the fioup ; simmer until the flour is cooked, add the 
peas and some bread cut in dice and fried in butter. 

White Bean Soup fob Fish Days. 

Boil two quarts of white beans until tender — ^if they are 
new, they will be done in two hours, if old, they should be 
soaked some hours before boiling ; when tender, take out one- 
third of the beans ; pulp the remainder through the colan- 
der ; beat four ounces of butter with one spoonful of flour ; 
add to the soup ; add three quarts of boiling water to the 
pulped beans ; simmer until smooth ; season with salt and 
pepper ; add the whole beans. 

Sweet Cork and White Bean Soup. 

Boil one pound of corned pork with one pint of white 
beans and one pint of sweet com. When the meat is tender, 
take it out ; boil the vegetables until quite soft ; take out 
some ; pulp the remainder through the colander ; season with 
pepper and salt ; add one ounce of butter. 

Split Pea Soup. 

Boil two pounds of beef and one pound of corned pork in 
five quarts of water ; when partly done, put in four carrots, 
three turnips, two onions; salt and pepper. Boil intil the 



42 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

meat is tender; take out the meat; strain off the liquor 
into the soup-kettle with three pints of split peas ; boil them 
until tender. Make forcemeat balls of sausage-meat mixed 
with same quantity of dried bread-crumbs with beaten yolk 
of egg, roll in flour, and fry a crisp light brown; serve 
in the soup. Serve the beef and pork with the carrots 
and turnips around, garnished with fresh parsley. 

Plain Split Pea Soup. 

Boil one pound of corned beef with one pound of corned 
pork in three quarts of water with three pints of split peas. 
When tender, take out the meat ; season with black and 
red pepper ; take off the fat ; when the peas are soft, serve 
the soup. 

Potato Soup. 

Peel four large potatoes ; six leeks sliced ; put them in two 
quarts of boiling water with one cup of rice ; salt and pep- 
per to taste; boil gently until all are well cooked; add 
some minced parsley and a quarter of a pound of butter. 
Strain. 

Another Method, 

Peel four large potatoes; boil them in two quarts of 
water ; mash them ; add one cup of milk or cream ; salt and 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter ; simmer. 

Spinach Soup. 

Pick over and wash four quarts of spinach ; put in boiling 
water with some salt ; boil twenty minutes ; press it through 
the colander ; add some butter, cream, a little nutmeg and 
pepper, a very little sugar ; sinmier. 

Rice Soup. 

Boil a knuckle of veal with a beef-bone in four quarts of 
water; add half a leek, two slices of carrot, two slice* 



BOUFS. 43 

of turnip. Wlien the meat is tender, take it out, uld a 
little minced parsley and one spoonful of tomato catsup ; 
strain. Put the broth on the fire, put in half a pound of 
mashed and soaked rice ; boil gently until thickened ; sea- 
son to taste with salt and pepper. 

Another Method. 

Wash half a pound of rice; put in a saucepan with one 
quart of water and a teaspoonful of salt. Simmer, adding 
boiling water or milk without stirring, until tlie rice has 
swelled and become tender. Season with pepper, salt, but- 
ter, and fill up with milk and a pint of cream. Stir gently 
without breaking the grains of rice. 

Browned Onion Soup. 

Cut six large onions in slices, roll them in flour, and fry 
them in butter until tender, and of a rich brown ; lay them 
on a sieve to drain ; put them in the soup-kettle with three 
quarts of boiling water; boil one hour ; season with salt and 
pepper and some crusts ; beat the yolks of two eggs with 
two spoonfuls of vinegar and two cloves ; simmer. 

Onion Soup. 

Boil two quarts of onions in three quarts of water with a 
tablespoonful of salt until very tender. Mix one-quarter 
pound of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir it in 
the soup and boil. Add a cup of milk or cream. 

Another Method, 

Two quarts of mutton broth. Grate two tumi])s and 
two carrots and mince a bunch of parsley ; add ( little 
thyme ; simmer. Slice six onions, roll in flour, and fry in 
butter. Strain off the broth and add the onions. Boil two 



44 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN. 

hours. Skim off the fat ; strain. Serve with eome bread 
cut in dice. 

Another Method. 

One quart of white gravy (see Gravies) ; add four onions, 
one head of celery, one turnip ; stew until the onions are 
tender ; add one pint of gravy ; strain, press the vegetables 
through the colander into the soup. Simmer one hour ; stir 
to keep from burning ; thicken with flour and butter and 
boiled rice, minced parsley and celery, a little tomato 
catsup. 

Almond Soup. 

One pound blanched almonds, pounded in a mortar; 
mince the meat from the breast and legs of a chicken with 
the yolks of four poached eggs, mix well together; mix 
with the almonds ; stir them in three quarts of white stock ; 
boil gently. Mince the breast and wings of a fowl ; season 
with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; scoop out the inside of a 
French roll without breaking the crust. Soften the minced 
chicken with a little broth and butter, fill the roll, close up 
the ends, keep it hot; boil gently down to the consist- 
ency of cream. Cut the roll in slices, put it in the bot- 
tom of the tureen, pour the soup in. 

Another Method. 

Boil a neck of veal and one of mutton in five quarts of 
water. Add salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and some 
slices of turnip ; boil until reduced to two quarts of broth ; 
strain. Add six ounces of blanched and pounded almonds, 
mixed with one-half pint of thick cream. Stick three small 
rolls with blanched almonds, put them in the tureen, and 
pour the soup over. 



'• 



SOUPS. • 46 

Clam Soup. 

Boil two pounds of lean beef and a veal-bone in three 
quarts of water, until it becomes quite a jelly. Strain, and 
add fifty clams, chopped fine. Add one quart of milk and 
as much boiling water as required ; season with pepper and 
salt to taste ; add some rolled soda-crackers and butter. 

ATvoiher Method, 

Wash fifty clams very clean and put them in sufficient 
boiling water to cover them. When the shells open, take 
them out, strain off the liquor ; mince the clams, put them 
back in the liquor ; add a minced onion, three blades of 
mace, ten pepper-corns; boil fifteen minutes. Add one 
quart of milk, four ounces of butter rolled with two spoon- 
fuls of flour, cover the kettle and let it simmer five minutes 
Serve hot with crackers. 

Another Method. 

Wash very clean fifty or one hundred very small clams ; 
boil them in sufficient water to cover them. When the 
shells open, take them out; strain the liquor into your 
soup-kettle ; put in one-third of a can of sweet com, a pint of 
lima beans, a little white cauliflower, four small white on- 
ions, a little minced lobster, a little minced celery, some 
tomatoes that have been stewed. Boil gently until the vege- 
tables are tender. Add half a pound of butter and a pint 
of cream; put in the clams; season to taste with b]ac< an J 
red pepper, and salt, and a little mace. 

Mussel Soup. 

Make a stock with three pounds of fish boiled until they 
C9n be strained through a colander. Boil the mussels same 
as clams^ take out the shells, chop the muscles, and add 



16 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

them to the fish-stock. Fry some bread in butter, and put 

in the soup ; season to taste. 

Betain some of the mussels, thicken with beaten yolk of 

egg and some butter ; set them in the oven five minutes to 

cook the egg. Squeeze some lemon over and serve on the 

shell. 

Oysteb Soup. 

Boil a knuckle of veal in two quarts of water and some 
salt. When the meat separates from the bone, strain off 
the liquor ; add one onion minced, one head of celery, cut 
fine ; simmer. Strain the liquor into your soup-kettle ; add 
the juice of fifty oysters, four soda-crackers rolled fine, four 
ounces of butter ; boil. Add the oysters ; boil up once. 
Serve hot, with minced celery salad. 

AnotJier Method, 
Strain the juice from two quarts of oysters into the soup- 
kettle with one quart of milk, one quart of boiling water, 
three soda-crackers rolled fine. Stew until the crackers are 
cooked ; add the oysters and four ounces of butter. Boil 
up once. Serve a salad of minced celery. 

Crab Soup. 
Boil two dozen crabs, crack the claws and take out all the 
meat. Pick out all the meat from the body. Put the 
bodies, after taking out all the meat you can, in a mortar 
and pound them fine ; boil them in two quarts of water 
two hours ; strain the liquor to one quart of white broth 
(made by boiling a knuckle of veal) ; season with salt and 
pepper and four ounces of butter. Mince the meat and 
add it to the soup. 

Strawberry Soup. 
Three quarts of milk, boiling hot ; a spoonful of wheat 
flour beaten with spoonful of fresh butt.er. Stir into milk ; 



SOUPS. ' 47 

simmer. Press two quarts of ripe strawberries through a 
colander; mix with the soup; sweeten to taste. Add one 
quart of fresh strawberries. Serve hot. Do not let it boil. 

Another Method. 

Boil a knuckle of veal and a fowl in four quarts of water, 

adding a little salt. When tender, take them out. Strain 

the soup when cool. Take off all the fat. Put the fowl in 

the oven with the fat from the broth ; baste while browning. 

Keep the knuckle of veal hot in some of the broth; serve 

with white sauce. Put the broth on the fire in a soup-kettle ; 

squeeze two quarts of strawberries into it; add a pint of 

cream, and sugar to taste ; add fresh strawberries. This souj) 

should be pink. 

Ck>NSOM])d:. 

Four pounds of beef; a knuckle of veal; two ounces of 
bacon (with or without carcass of fowl) ; put all into the 
soup-kettle, with four quarts of water ; add salt ; boil gently 
four or five hours; take out the beef. Add one leek, one 
onion, four cloves, half a carrot, parsnip, and a stick of celery, 
half a red pepper, soup-greens, sprig of parsley ; simmer one 
hour. Strain off the soup in a tureen ; let it cool. Take off 
all the fat. Put the soup on the fire ; beat the whites and 
shells of two eggs, with one pound of fresh, juicy beef 
chopped; stir them through the heated soup; strain. The 
soup will be perfectly clear ; can be colored with a caramel of 
browned sugar. Can be saved. The beef can be warmed and 
garnished for dinner. 

Cbeam of Aspabagus. 

Boil one large bunch of asparagus in two quarts of rich 
broth, out off the white stems, add the green heads with on%^ 
quart of cream, or two quarts of milk to the broth, season^ 
and boil gently. Serve hot. 



FISH. 

Obskrtations. 

To fry fish : Hcrape off the scales perfectly from every 
part; wasli&efisli; wipe them diy with a clean cloth. Roll 
them in flour or dip them in beuten egg and roll in fine 
cracker or brecid cnimbs. Have tlie lard and butter very 
hot, cook over a steady fire ; da not let them bum; move 
the pan and cook every part equally ; take them from the 
pan and lay them on a dish to drain. 

To boil fish : scale, wash, and dry aa before ; rinse them 
in a little vinegar. Boil slowly. Fresh fish should be put 
in cold water with a little salt, for half an hour and then dry 
them before cooking. Serve with white sauce. 

Fresh Fish Boiled. 
Prepare them as above ; put them in your boiler with 
boiling water; boil slowly; fifteen or twenty minutes is 
sufficient time for ordinary sise. Serve with drawn butter, 
boiled egg chopped fine, parsley, or sliced lemon. They can 
be stuffed with forcemeat. 



FISH. 49 

To Macerate Fish. 

Bteep the fish for three hours in vinegar and fat broth 
seasoned with pepper, salt, some whole cloves, sliced onion, 
lemon, bay-leaves, parsley and leek. Drain them from this 
liquor ; wipe them dry ; roll them in flour and fry in clari- 
fied butter even yellow brown, and serve garmshed with 
fried parsley ; or make a sauce as follows : some slices of 
lemon, sonie cives of finely chopped onion, salt, pepper, 
nutmeg and vinegar. Toss in clarified butter. Pour over 
the fish. 

To Boil Striped Bass. 

Scale, wash, and dry them ; put them over a steady fire in 
boiling water ; some salt ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes ac- 
cording to the size. Lift the strainer firom the kettle ; let 
them drain ; dish carefully ; pour some nice drawn butter 
over with some slices of lemon ; garnish the dish with fresh 
parsley. 

Barbecue Black-fish (or Sea-bass). 

Clean the fish, cut off the fins, make a dressing of bread 
moistened with a little vinegar and some butter ; season 
with pepper and salt, ground cloves, a little mace, a little 
cayenne pepper ; fill the fish, close it, and bake it before a 
hot fire, basting with vinegar and butter or wine. 

Or bake in the oven, basting as before. 

Black-fish, Stewed (or Sea-bass). 

Fill them with plain stuffing ; rub some salt over them ; 
stew gently twenty minutes in sufficient water to cover. 
Kaise the drainer, pour out the water, and stew them ten 
minutes in claret wine. 

One bottle is sufficient for five or six pounds of fish. 
3 



50 HAKD-BOOK FOB THE KTrOHEN. 

To Bake Shad ob Bass. 

Have the fish carefully scaledy washed, and dried ; make a 
dressing with bread-crumbs moistened with a little hot 
water and butter, salt, pepper, a little red pepper, some 
sweet herbs ; mix welL Fill the fish until round and natu- 
ral in shape ; close it ; rub the surface with some yolk of 
eggs and a little salt ; put a gill of wine or vinegar and 
water in the pan ; bake in a moderate oven ; baste often. 

To Bake Stkiped Bass. 

After cleaning, sprinkle some salt over them ; when ready 
to cook them, wash them, wipe dry, season with salt, black 
pepper and a little red pepper ; pour some melted butter 
over them, and bake a light brown ; let it cool ; make a 
dressing of bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, mace, cloves, parsley, 
a little red pepper and butter ; fill the fish and let it stand 
one hour. Put it into a deep dish ; mix one pint of port and 
madeira wine, one-half pint of water, one-half tea-cup of 
mushroom or tomato catsup ; pour over the fish and bake ; 
basting often. Serve with slices of lemon. 

To Bboil Shad. 

Clean, wash, and sprinkle salt over them ; let them He one 
hour, wash, hang them up to dry. Must be split down the 
back. When required, place the flesh side down on a hot 
giidiron, which should be clean as possible; broil every 
part evenly of a light brown ; turn the iron and cook the out- 
side. Place on a warm dish and spread a little butter over. 

To Fby Shad. 

Prepare as before. Cut off the head, roll in flour and 
fry in hot lard, adding a little butter at the last. Must be 
even light brown. Fry the roe and eggs and serve with 
the fifih. 



FISH. 51 

Halibut Fkied. 

Soak in vinegar and water with some salt, about one 
hour ; dry it, dip in beaten egg and then in crumbs or rolled 
cracker, or roll in wheat-flour. Fry in hot lard and butter 
carefully ; must be even light brown and not broken ; turn 
with cake-turner ; dish. 

Halibut Stewed. 

Put your fish in a stew-pan with a half pint of fish- 
broth, a teaspoonful of vinegar, one of mushroom catsup, 
two good-sized onions cut in pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a little cut garlic ; cover with water, stew gently one and a 
half hours ; dish it and strain some of the gravy thickened 
with butter and flour. 

Halibut Boiled. 

Buy a nice square piece of halibut, about four pounds ; 
wash as usual ; boil in water with a little salt, about one 
and a half hours will be sufficient. Serve with white 
sauce, fresh parsley, and slices of lemon. 

Halibut's Head. 
Put into a stew-pan a pint of wine, an onion stuck with 
cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some pepper ; put in 
some water, and let it stew for one hour, then strain it ; 
put in the halibut's head, and let it stew until tender ; when 
done sufficiently, thicken the gravy with butter and flour ; 
add a little fish-sauce. Make some forcemeat balls of some 
of the fish, by pounding it and rolling it up with fine bread- 
crumbs, thyme, marjoram, and nutmeg ; bind it with the 
yolk of an egg. Serve with the fish. 

Halibut Boiled. 
Put the fish in your boiler with the back undermost ; cover 
it with cold water, having first dissolved in it a handful of 



52 UAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHEN. 

salt, and a very small piece of saltpetre. When it begins tc 
boil, skim it, and let it simmer until done. Drain it, garnish 
with horseradish ; serve with egg sauce or melted butter. 
It will take half an hour to boil four pounds of fish. 

Fresh Salmon. 

Draw and clean it, then put it in cold water, well salted, 
toT half an hour ; then put it into another kettle with some 
fresh cold water and salt ; let it simmer for one hour ; do not 
let it boil ; keep it covered. When done, drain it, and serve 
in a napkin with slices of lemon. White sauce. 

Salmon Boiled. 

Clean the fish as usual ; lay it on a dry napkin ; make a 
seasoning of chopped onion, parsley, salt, pepper, cloves, nut- 
meg, and lemon. Score the sides and rub in the seasoning. 
Work butter and some flour together and put in the fish. 
Fasten the napkin over the fish and put it in the fish-boiler 
with wine, water, and a little vinegar sufficient to cover it ; 
put the boiler over the fire and simmer about one hour ; 
if the liquor is sufficiently exhausted, strain the sauce. Keep 
the fish in the liquor until you serve, then raise the drainer 
for a short time, place the fish on a clean napkin, garnish 
with fresh parsley. 

Salmon Broiled. 

Cut slices about an inch thick ; season with salt and pep- 
per ; fold each slice in white paper, buttered ; fasten the ends 
of the paper, put on a hot gridiron and broil quickly ; butter 
them and serve with tomato or anchovy sauce. 

Fresh Salmon Broiled. 

Dip the slices in melted butter, sprinkle on a little salt, 
brpil over a moderate fire. 

Serve with the following sauce : put some butter and a 



J 



FISH. 53 

little flour rubbed together in a saucepan ; add some anchovy 
sauce, some capers and a leek, chopped ; salt, pepper, a little 
nutmeg, vinegar and a little hot water ; put it over the fire 
and stir while simmering ; when nicely thickened, strain the 
sauce over the salmon or serve in a sauce-boat. 

Smoked Salmon Broiled. 

Put the flesh side down on a hot gridiron over hot coals ; 
let it heat through ; turn down the outside and crisp ; flatten 
with knife on the dish and serve. 

Salmon Boasted. 

Use the middle cut, dredge with flour, put on some but- 
ter, sprinkle on a little salt ; baste with butter and a little 
lemon-juice while roasting. When done, dish the salmon, 
add some flour and butter and lemon-juice to the gravy ; 
strain and serve. 

Salmon Stewed, in Champagne. 

Cut the salmon in slices, take off the skin and back-bone, 
cut down the back ; put in a saucepan an onion stuck with 
cloves, a bunch of herbs, some butter, some grated bread, 
truffles, mushrooms ; put in the fish ; add a little salt and 
pepper, pour over the fish half a bottle of champagne, place 
the pan over the fire, let it simmer until the wine is pretty 
much reduced; put the fish in your dish and strain the 
liquor over it ; serve hot. You can add some rago&t of fish. 

Plain Fried Salmon. 

Take nicely cut slices, from the middle, about an inch 
thick ; wash clean and dry with napkin ; roll in flour, dip 
in beaten egg ; roll in fine cracker or bread-crumbs ; fry in 
hot lard, adding a little butter to brown it. Must be of even 
light yellow brown. Cook over a quick fi' e, carefully mov- 



54 HAND-BOOK FOfi THE KITOHEN. 

ing the pan to keep from burning ; sprinkle on a little salt 
while cooking. 

Salmon Pickled. 

Soak about four pounds of salt salmon overnight. Put 
, it in your stew-pan with cold water ; put it over the fire to 
simmer for half an hour ; take it from the boiler and put it 
in a deep dish or jar; make the pickle, put the vinegar, 
enough to cover the fish, over the fire, with cloves, mace, 
whole black pepper and a little cayenne pepper ; let it sim- 
mer; add it to the fish when cold ; cover. It is ready for 
tise. 

To Pickle Fresh Salmon. 

Cut the fish into slices, put it in a saucepan with sufficient 
water to cover it, with some salt ; put it over the fire and 
let it simmer about half an hour. 

Take it from the water and let it drain ; make a pickle 
of vinegar one quarter, water three quarters, some bay- 
leaves, salt and black pepper; put in a jar and put in the 
fish and cover. 

To Cook Cobned Salmon. 

Let it freshen by pouring cold water over, and changing 
it until the salt is drawn out. 

Boil in fresh water, and serve with drawn butter and 
parsley. 

To Broil Corned Salmon. 

Freshen and wash the fish, drain and hang up to dry, and 
broil over a quick fire. 

Trout. 

Scale and clean them, fry them brown in butter; melt 
some butter and add to it some green parsley fried crisp ; 
serve with the fish. You can add to the melted butter some 
essence of anchovy and a glassful of white wine ; gamiso 



FIBH. 55 

felie fish with slices of lemon and fried parsley. Boil them 
the same as salmon. 

Trout Stewed. 

Wash, clean, and dry them; put into a ste'y-pan over the 
fire two ounces of butter, dredge in a little flour, add some 
grated nutmeg, a little mace, and a little cayenne pepper. 
Let this stew, and when well mixed, put in the fish. When 
they are slightly browned, pour over them a pint of veal 
gi'avy; add a little salt, a bunch of parsley and a little 
lemon-peel ; let it stew slowly for forty minutes, then dish 
the fish, strain the gravy clear, and pour it over the fish. 

Smelts Fried. 

Clean them and wash them carefully ; roll them in fiour, 
place them in the pan close together, fry them crisp in 
melted butter, lard, or sweet oil ; turn them all together with 
a broad knife. 

Or place them for a short time in vinegar, salt, pepper, 

bay-leaves, then dry them well, dredge with fiour, and fry 

in butter. 

Smelts Stewed. 

Put them in a saucepan with fresh butter, white wine, 
grated nutmeg, sliced lemon, and fried fiour ; let them stew. 
When done, serve on a napkin, with green parsley. 

Flounders, Paugies, or any Fresh Fish. 

Clean and wash them, dry them well, dredge with flour, 
and fry in melted butter ; then drain them dry, serve them 
on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, or a sauce made of 
pepper, salt, and orange or lemon juice. 

To PRY Flounders, Paugies, etc. 

Scale them carefully ; draw and wash them thoroughly ; 
dry them, roll them in fiour, sprinkle on a little salt, and 



56 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHSN. 

fry in hot fat, dripping, or lard ; carefollj move the pan and 

fry slowly that every part be well cooked of a light brown, 

and not burned ; drain them from the &t and serve on hot 

dish. 

Flounders with Brown Gravy Sauce. 

Prepare them as before. Cut them down the backs and 
fry them as before. Make the sauce as follows : 

Put some butter into a saucepan over the fire, some shred 
parsley and cives; let it simmer; add some salt, pepper, 
and some fish-broth (this can be omitted) ; some capers and 
some brown gravy ; when a little brown, put in the fish, cut 
in pieces ; simmer, drain out the 6sh, strain the sauce over 
them and serve. 

Flounders with Cucumber Ragout. 

Prepare and fry them. Take the seeds from four good 
cucumbers, cut the cucumbers in pieces and put them in vin- 
egar with salt, pepper, and ak onion sUced ; turn them from 
time to time for about two hours ; fry them in hot butter ; 
add some fish-broth, put in the fish, and let them simmer ; 
skim off the fat and add some browned gravy. Serve with 
the ragotlt poured over them. 

To Stew Pickerel. 

Put some clarified butter into the pan with some lemon 
juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, sweet herbs ; put in the 
fish and stew them ; simmer some mushrooms in butter and 
a little fish-broth, and a good ragout. Drain the fish into a 
dish and pour the ragout over them You can cook them 
as other fish. 

Fish Stuffed with Oysters. 

Prepare them as usual. Fill them with oyster forcemeat * 
bend them round and skewer the tail to the mouth. Sprin- 



FISBT. 67 

Ue & little salt, some pieces of butter, and dredge some flour 
orer them ; put in the oven and bake about forty minutes, 
l^ake out the fish over the fire, and add to the gravy a table- 
spoonful of sherry wine, Harvey's sauce, grated lemon-peel, 
cayenne pepper, some melted butter. Strain and serve 
"With the fish — hot. 

Fish Stewed with Oysters. 

Scale and clean carefully. Slit them down the back and 
cut in two. Put in the stew-pan some butter, salt, pepper, 
parsley, muslirooms, truffles minced ; some wine. Stew 
gently, and when nearly done, blanch some oysters in their 
own juice and some lemon ; add them to the stew ; let them 
simmer. Take out the fish, drain on a dish ; place the oysters 
around, and strain the gravy over. Garnish with slices of 
lemon and fresh parsley or green leaves. 

To Fry Perch. 

Scale and clean them ; take out the gills, and cut off the 

fins. Rub on a little salt, roll in flour, and fry in hot fat or 

butter light brown. Garnish the dish with parsley or green 

leaves. 

Perch with Mushrooms. 

Clean as before, cut in pieces ; put some mushrooms in 
cream and a little butter ; let it simmer. Put in the perch 
with the yolks of three eggs, some parsley and nutmeg. 
Stir gently ; when done, take out the fish, place them in a 
dish with the ragout. Garnish. 

Eels Fried. 

Skin and scrape them clean. Cut them in short pieces. 
Wash and roll aach piece in flour, or coat them with yolk of 
egg, and roll in powdered cracker. Fry in hot lar i and but- 
ter, turning and browning each piece. Sprinkle on a little 
salt. Garnish with parsley. 



58 hand-book fob the kitchen. 

Eels Bboiled. 

Skin themy draw and wash them. Boll them in a coil 
and flEuiten them ; put on a clean hot gridiron over a steady 
fire. Broil both sides. Carefully salt them, place on a 
dish, and pour melted butter over. Garnish with fresh 
parsley. You can cut in pieces if you prefer them so. 

Broiled Eels with Sauce. 

Skin and joint them, each piece about three inches long. 
Mix some butter, herbs, parsley, onion ; season with salt and 
pepper. Simmer the eels in this; leave them in it to 
cool. Dry them, and dredge them separately with £bie 
bread-crumbs, and broil on a hot gridiron over a slow fire. 
Brown the sauce. Strain and pour over the eels. 

To Boil Fresh Mackerel. 

"Wash the fish after scaling and drawing ; keep the roe 
whole. Steep it in some vinegar, replace it in the fish, and 
close it. Put in boiling water over the fire ; let it boil 
gently about fifteen minutes ; when the tail splits and the 
eyes start, it is done. Take it carefully from the drainer, and 
dish on a warm plate ; be sure to keep it whole. Pour some 
nice drawn butter over, and serve. Garnish with parsley. 

Salt Mackerel Fried. 

Soak it several hours. Scrape and clean until it looks 
bright. KoU in flour, and fry in hot lard. 

Fresh mackerel is fried as any other fish, simply. 

Fresh Mackerel Fried — with Sauce. 

Scale and clean it, split it down the back ; take out th6 
bone, wash, and dry it well ; roll in flour, and sprinkle with 
salt ; fry in hot lard and butter. 

^fake a sauce with melted butter, one spoonful of Har- 



FISH. 59 

vey^s sauce, same of mixed mustard, and two of Tiuegar. 
Simmer, and strain over the fish. Garnish. 

Salt Mackerel Broiled. 

Soak several hours ; scrape and clean it well ; hang it up 
to dry ; place it on a hot gridiron, flesh side down ; when 
brown, crisp the outside, place on a warm dish, and serve. 
Pour some melted butter over it. 

To Broil Fresh Mackerel. 

Scale it, split down the back, take out the entrails, wash 
very clean. Sprinkle some salt over; let it stand ; hang it 
up to dry. Place it on a hot gridiron, with flesh down ; 
when brown, turn and cook the other side. Put it on a 
warm dish ; put melted butter over it. 

Fresh Herrikg Broiled. 

Scale and clean, rub with melted butter, roll in flour or 
fine bread-crumbs, and broil on a hot iron quickly ; servo 
with white sauce, or pour some butter over them. 

Herring Boiled. 

Scale and clean them, wash them in vinegar, boil in hot 
water over the fire ten minutes; dish them; serve with 
drawn butter mixed with one tablespoonful of catsup, tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, same of mixed mustard. 

Herring Fried. 

Scale and clean them, wash carefully, roll in flour, sprin* 
kle a little salt and pepper, fry in hot lard or butter. 

To Fry Sturgeon. 

Cut thin slices, take off the skin, dip in beaten eggs, roll 
in fine cracker with some minced parsley, season with salt 



60 HA17D-B00K FOB THS KITOHEN. 

and pepper, serve garnished with parsley, and fry in buttef 
or lard. Serve hot. 



To Bkoil Sturgeon. 

Cut thin slices, broil over a quick fire ; hot gridiron ; put 
on a warm plate, and season with pepper, salt, and butter, 
and serve with anchovy sauce. 

Stuboeon Boiled. 

Boil in salt and water, and serve with drawn butter and 
sauce; garnish. 

Cod's Head and Shouldebs. 

Clean out the gills and blood from the bone, and wash the 
head very clean, rub it with cider vinegar and a little salt. 
When the water boils, throw into it a glassful of vinegar 
and a handful of salt ; put the fish in. It will take about 
half an hour for a small fish, and three-quarters for a large 
one ; boil gently. "When done, take it up, and strip off the 
skin ; put it in a quick oven, having first dredged it with 
flour; baste it with butter continually. When the froth 
begins to rise, strew over some fine bread-crumbs. Have it 
a nice light brown. Garnish with slices of lemon or fried 
oysters. Serve with lobster sauce. 

Anotlier Method. 

Clean it carefully, rub it with vinegar and salt, put it 
into boiling water with a glassful of vinegar, and a handful 
of salt. It will take half an hour to boil a small fish, and 
three-quarters for a large one. You can garnish with grated 
horseradish and slices of lemon ; serve with oyster sauce, or 
simply drawn butter, garnished with parsley. 



FISH. 61 

Cod Baked. 

Have a piece from the middle ; skin it, make a dressing of 
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, the roe of the fish half 
boiled, some fine bread-crumbs, some grated lemon-peel, 
butter, pepper and salt to taste, bind it with the white of 
an egg, sew it in the fish ; bake before the fire, turning fre- 
quently; baste with butter; serve with butter or oyster 
sauce. 

Cod Stewed. 

Scald the sounds, and cut them in pieces ; if dried, boil 
them; blanch the roes, cut them in pieces with an equal 
quantity of the liver. Take the middle of a piece of cod, 
put all in a stew-pan, add a little grated nutmeg and ground 
mace, an onion, some sweet herbs, salt, half a pint of boiling 
water ; cover closely, let it stew about eight minutes ; add 
four glassfuls of port wine, six oysters, with the liquor 
strained, some butter rolled in flour ; shake the pan occa- 
sionally while stewing ; when done, remove the onion and 
the herbs ; dish it, and garnish with sliced lemon. 

Sliced Cod. 

Put some slices into a baking-dish, cover them with some 
good, second stock; bake; when done, thicken the stock, 
strain it, pour it over the fish; season with cayenne pepper, 
■alt, and lemon-juice ; add some capers or chopped parsley. 

Cod Boiled. 

Lay some slices for three hours in salted water; add a 
wineglassful of vinegar ; fill your fish-boiler nearly full of 
water, put in a handful of salt, let it boil ; then put in the 
fish, boil ten minutes ; garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon and horseradish ; serve with oyster' sauce. 



62 hand-book fob the kitchkn. 

Cod Stewed. 

Put the fish in your stew-pan ; add a small lump of butter, 
three or four blades of mace, some bread-crumbs, pepper, 
salt, a small bunch of sweet herbs. When nearly done, add 
a wineglassful of sherry ; stew gently until done. 

Dried Codfish. 

Soak it overnight. Then double the two sides together, 
put it in some water in your fish- boiler, let it simmer two 
hours, pour over it some rich, drawn butter (see Sauces) ; 
garnish with boiled beets, chopped fine, and slices of hard- 
boiled eggs, and fresh parsley, or green leaves. 

Corned Codfish. 

Wash it ; put it over the fire in some boiling water ; let it 
boil slowly, for half an hour; serve with drawn butter. 

Fresh Codfish Boiled. 

A codfish weighing about two pounds. Scale and clean 
thoroughly. Have your fish-boiler two-thirds full of water ; 
when boiling put in your fish (if you have no strainer, 
fasten it in a napkin tightly to keep it from breaking), with 
a handful of salt ; boil gently about half an hour ; raise the 
drainer ; place the fish on a warm dish and pour rich drawn 
butter over it ; garnish with fresh parsley and slices of hard- 
boiled egg. 

Fresh Codfish Fried. 

Have some nice slices from the middle of the fish, pour 
Bome vinegar and sprinkle some salt over them ; afterwards 
dry them ; dip them in beaten egg and roll in fine crackei 
or wheat flour ; put them in hot lard and fry slowly. Do 
not break the slices. Must be of a light brown when ready 
to serve. Tdu can add some butter, when nearly done, to 
brown them. 



FISH. . 63 

Fresh Haddock Boiled. 

Nicely scaled, cleaned and prepared by the fishnian. 
Wrap in a clean napkin and put in boiling water with a 
little salt. Three pounds will require about twenty-five 
minutes. Dish carefully ; serve with white sauce and slices 
of hard-boiled eggs. 

Haddock. 

To be fried and boiled same as codfish. 

Cod Sounds — Boiled. 

Scald them in hot water, take off the dirty skin, and 
when perfectly clean, boil tender in equal quantities of milk 
and water. Serve with egg sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Codfish Balls. 

Soak overnight about two pounds of codfish, then let it 
simmer until perfectly tender ; when done, pick it to pieces, 
taking out every bone. Chop it fine ; boil, peel, and mash 
about three quarts of potatoes ; mix them well with the fish, 
moisten with milk and a little butter or lard ; add some 
pepper, a spoonful of flour. Mix all well together, and 
make into balls, about an inch thick. Fry them a nice 
crisp brown, in hot lard. 

Salt Fish. 

Soak until fresh. Dry it well and dredge it with flour ; 

fry it a nice brown, in lard or butter. Serve with fried 

I^rsley. 

Another Method, 

Take about two pounds of fish, put it in cold water, over 
a «low fire. Do not let it boil. Leave it for about an hour 
and a half on the fire. Then pick it in small threads ; 
clean it well. Put it in a saucepan with a quart of fresh 
milk thickened ^vith egg ; add a little white pepper ; just 



64 IIAJID-BOOE FOB TSB KITOBBH. 

before it b^pns to boil take it from the fire ; beat foor eggs 
together and add two ounces of bntter. Put it to the fish, 
stir it well, set it on the fire for one minute, stirring. Serve 
on buttered toast. 

Salt Codfish. 
Boil about tvo pounds of fish. Peel and boil two pounds 
of potatoes. Slice them thin. Slice six boOed eggs. Pul 
a layer of fish in your dish, then a layer of potatoes and 
eggs, alternately, until all is used ; add a pint of condensed 
milk, beaten with a pint of water ; put some lumps of 
butter over the top ; cover and put in the oven for one hour, 




If you have no fiah-slicer, use a silver or plated knife. In 
carving a piece of salmon, cut thin slices as fi^m A to B; 
and help with it pieces cut from C to D. 



To Carve Cod's Head abb Shoulders. 

Carve from 1 to 2, and then along the line to 5, help 

alices accompanied by some of the sound, which is to be 

found lining the back and which yon may obtain by passdng 

the knife under the back-bone at 6. 



SHELLFISH. 



LoBSTEB Boiled. 

Put the lobster in boiling water ; boil until every part is 
of a bright red ; let cool ; extract the meat from the large 
claws, place the lobster on a dish surrounded with lettuce 
or celery, cut it open from the head to the extreme ; put the 
meat from the large claws on the lettuce each side of the 
lobster. Serve parts from the lobster and claws with nicely 
dressed salad. 

Boil as above. Take all the meat from the shell ; mince 
it, add a little salt, some mace, some wine ; put it in a sauce- 
pan over a slow fire ; add bread-crumbs and some butter ; 
simmer ; serve on hot lobster shell. 

Curried Lobster. 

Mince the meat of a lobster, add some veal broth, one 
onion, minced, two ounces of butter, two dessertspoonfuls 
of curry powder ; let all simmer one hour ; add juice of 
one lemon, and salt to taste. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Mince all the meat taken from the shells of a lobster ; 
season with salt, pepper, a little mace, sufficient milk to 
moisten all ; put it over a slow fire ; simmer ; when hot, stir 
in a spoonful of flour and butter rubbed together ; let it 
thicken ; add sufficient milk to make it as thick as custard 



66 HAND-BOOK FOK THE KITCHEN. 

when cold. Let it cool ; make it in balls about the size of 
an egg, roll in flour, dip in beaten egg, roll in biead-iTumbs 
or fine cracker, fry them in hot lard, turn them ; take them 
out when of an equal light brown. 

Simple Lobster Salad. 

Boil a lobster until all red ; let it cool ; take the moat 
from the shell and mince it and season with salt. Cover a 
dish with delicate lettuce arranged with the small red 
claws, put the meat in the middle and pour over some vine- 
gar. Serve with any sauce. 

Crabs Boiled. 

Boil them in hot water until bright red, crack the large 
claws, and serve on a dish. 

Crabs Stewed. 

After boiling crack the shells, pick out the meat, put in a 
saucepan, add some wine, lemon-juice ; stew them ; add some 
nutmeg ; turn it into a dish with the small claws around it 
and slices of lemon over it. 

Crabs Buttered. 

Boil them ; pick out the meat ; mix with the yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs, some claret wine, vinegar, and a little 
ground cinnamon, a quarter pound of butter ; simmer, and 
serve with sauce made with vinegar, butter, and a little 
flour. 

Soft-shell Clam Chowder. 

One hundred soft-shell clams well washed from the sand 
which adheres to them ; mix with pint of tomatoes skinned, 
(or half a can) chopped ; four ounces of butter, thyme, 
savory, half teaspoonful of ground cloves and curry pow- 



8HSLLFISH. 67 

der, mixed ; boil gently until well mixed and smooth ; add 
a little cream or condensed milk and a gill of slierrj wine. 

Deviled Crabs. 

When boiled, take the meat from the shells, carefully 
from the body; mince it, add one-third as much bread- 
crumbs ; hard-boiled eggs, minced fine, lemon-juice, cayenne 
pepper and salt, mix and add some rich white sauce ; make 
all into a smooth paste, and put them neatly in shape on 
the red shells ; add a few crumbs, and brown them in the 
oven. 

Deviled Lobsteb. 

Take the meat from the shells and mince it fine ; add 
one-third as much bread-crumbs as meat; some hard- 
boiled egg, minced, lemon-juice, cayenne pepper and salt ; 
add some rich white sauce, mix into a smooth paste, make 
them in form and brown them in the oven. Serve on 
plates with red edges, with some small claws around, and 
some fresh parsley or celery leaves. After you have mixed 
them, add some wine. 

SoFT-SHEiiL Crabs. 

Wash in cold water two dozen live soft-shell crabs. Dry 
them ; beat six eggs ; pound and sift one pound of butter- 
crackers; dip the crabs into eggs, then roll them in the 
crackers. Put one pound of butter into your frying-pan ; 
when heated, fry the crabs a light brown ; season with pep- 
per and salt, drain them dry and serve hot. 

Crabs Dressed. 

Boil them, take out the white meat, and place it around 
your dish ; mix the yellow part with vinegar, mustard, a 
little oil, salt and pepper, and place it in the centre. 



68 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

Another Method. 

Take the meat of boiled crabs, mix it well with vlaegai, 

bread-crumbs, grated nutmeg, and a little butter. Serve in 

the shells. 

Crabs Baked. 

Take the meat from the shells of boiled crabs, mix it 
with some fine bread-crumbs ; add some white pepper, salt, 
a little cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Put it in the shelln 
or a dish, add some pieces of butter, and squeeze on some 
lemon-juice. Cover with fine bread-crumbs, and bake. 

OYSTERS AND CLAMS. 

C^EBVATIONS. 

Do not buy oysters or clams unless the shells are firmly 

dosed. 

Oysters, Baked or Scalloped. 

Butter a shallow or deep dish ; cover the bottom with 
rolled crackers and some pieces of butter ; cover with a layer 
of oysters, then another layer of crackers and butter, then 
oysters, then crackers and butter on top ; pour the juice 
over with a little salt, and bake. Four the juice of the 
oyster over just before putting in to bake. 

Oysters Scalloped. 

Steep some bread-crumbs in the liquor. Put them with 
the oysters, chopped, into scallop-shells, with a little but- 
ter ; season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; 
mak? a paste with bread-crumbs and butter ; cover the oys- 
ters with it and bake. 

Oysters. 

After they are opened, put them in a saucepan with their 
liquor ; stir them over the fire a few moments to blanch 
them. 



SHELLFISH. 69 

Q^ake them out one by one and lay them upon a plate. 
Put some truffles and mushrooms in a saucepan with a little 
melted bacon ; moisten with gravy, let them simmer but 
not boil; thicken with broth, made of veal and ham. 
When you wish to serve, put in the oysters ; let them get 
hot. Serve. 

Oysters Broiled. 

Open and dry lai*ge oysters, have a fine wire hinge 
broiler, put the oysters in, and broil over a quick fire, turn 
ing the broiler and not the oysters. Put them in a dish 
with hot butter and pepper. 

Or, put large oysters in white paper buttered, and broil on 
hot iron, as before. 

Another Method. 

Open them and leave them in the shells ; add to them 
some pepper, a little minced parsley, aud some fresh butter, 
cover with some fine bread-crumbs. Broil them, and brown 
the top with a red-hot sliovel. 

Otstebs Stewed. 

To half a pint of oyster-juice add the same quantity of 
cream, or a gill of condensed milk mixed with a gill of wa- 
^er, two or three blades of mace, a little pepper and salt, 
three or four crackers rolled fine ; simmer half an hour ; 
then add two ounces of butter and the oysters. Simmer a 
kittle, and serve with dressed celery. 

Anqiher Method. 

To two dozen oysters add about one ounce of butter and 
a very little pepper. Let it simmer, and serve with crackers 

Another Method.. 

Kinse them in their own liquor, strain the liquor, and 
thicken it with wheat-flour and butter ; put it into a stew- 



70 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOBEN. 

pan with the oysters. Add some lemon-peel, shred fine, oi 
some slices of lemon, some whole white pepper. Let it sim* 
mer, but not boil. A glassful of wine may be added to the 
liquor, before the oysters are put in, if desired. 

Oysters Stewed with Champagne. 

Bub the bottom of a tin dish with butter. Put the oys- 
ters in, and a little pepper ; strew over a little minced pars- 
ley ; add half a glass of champagne ; cover with thin slices 
of fresh butter, some fine bread-crumbs ; cover the dish, 
place it upon the fire, with some fire over it, let them stew 
until of a nice brown ; take off the fat, clean the brim of the 
' dish and serve hot. Grated cheese may be added instead 
of bread. You can cook equally well in a good oven. 

Oysters Stewed. 

Strain the juice of fifty oysters; add one pint of milk, 
four crackers rolled fine. Let them simmer, until the 
crackers are soft, stir in two ounces of best butter, add the 
oysters, stirring them through ; let them simmer until boil- 
ing hot. Serve with salad. 

Oysters Fried. 
Roll them in flour, and fry them a light brown, in butter 
or liird. 

Another Method, 
Break an egg in a teacup, and fill with ice- water ; beat 
light; sift in flour to make a thin batter. Dip in the 
oysters, roll them in fine cracker, boil as doughnuts, in hot 
lard, turn once with a ladle. Instead of cracker, dip them 
in corn-meal. 

Another Method, 
Mix together the yolks of eggs, and some fine bread* 
crumbs, a little mace, grated nutmeg, and salt ; dip the 
oysters in, fry them a nice brown, in hot lard. 



SHELLFISH. 71 

OYSTI.BS Fried in Batter. 

Drain them, let them lay for a while in the juice of three 
or four lemons, some pepper, a bay-leaf, an onion sliced, 
half a dozen cloves ; turn them occasionally ; make a bat- 
ter with some flour and water, a little salt and one egg ; 
beat all well together, add a little melted butter. Dry the 
oysters on a napkin. Put some butter in your pan, let it 
get very hot ; dip the oysters one by one in the batter ; put 
them in the pan ; fry a nice brown ; serve on a napkin ; 
garnish with fried parsley. 

Oyster Fritters — Clam Fritters. 

Beat two eggs with a cupful of milk, thicken with flour, 
add a teaspoonful of yeast powder, stir the oysters into the 
batter, and drop it with a spoon into hot lard or butter. 

Chop clams and cook same. 

Oysters Roasted. 

Put some large oysters (not opened) upon a gridiron, or 
in the oven. When done, they will open. Do not lose the 
liquor from the shell. Serve hot upon a clean napkin. 

Oyster Patties. 

Line your patty-pans with puff-paste. Cut the oysters 
into small pieces ; put them into a saucepan with a little 
nutmeg, a very little white pepper, a little lemon-peel, cut 
as finely as possible, a very little cream and a little oyster- 
juice. Let it simmer for a few minutes, fill the pans, cover 
with rich puff-paste, and bake. 

Oyster Pie. 

Put a nice paste in a buttered pudding-dish, put in some 
lumps of butter, pepper and salt ; put in the oysters, heat 
one-half a cupful of the liquor, and one-half a cupful of milk ; 



73 HAND-BOOK FOB THE EITOHBN. 

add two spoonfuls of flour, with two ounces of butter ; let it 
simmer until about as thick as cream ; add it to your oysters, 
cover with paste and bake. 

Oysteb Pie with Sweetbreads. 

Blanch the oysters and sweetbreads in hot water; cut 
the sweetbreads in thin slices ; lay them alternately with 
the oysters in your dish ; season with salt, pepper, a little 
mace and nutmeg ; add some good sauce and a little cream, 
and a little of the oyster liquor; cover with paste, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

Clams Boiled. 

Wash clean flfby or one hundred small clams ; boil them 
until the shells open, take them from the shells, stew them 
in a little butter, and serve on toast. 

Clams Boasted ob Baked. 

Wash them clean, put them on a gridiron over the coals, 
or in a dripping-pan, and bake in the oven ; cook them 
until the shells are open. Serve hot. 

Clams Stewed. 

Put them with the juice and some butter over the fire, 
and let them stew slowly half an hour ; add some butter and 
flour rubbed together. Serve on toast. Or stew them in 
butter, vinegar and a little pepper. 

Clams Fried. 

Boll them in flour, and fry tAcm in butter and lard, or 
roll them in dried bread-crumbs. 

Clam Fritters. 

Make a batter with two eggs, beaten lightly with a pin« 
of nulk ; add sufficient flour to make a soft batter ; add a 



I 



SHELLFISH. 73 

teaspoonful of jeast powder ; stir the clains in whole or 
chopped ; drop them in hot lard, with a spoon. 
For clam chowder see Made Dishes, page 117. 

Soft-shell Clams Fried. 

Wash them, roll them in flour, and fry them in lard and 
butter. 

Soft-shell Clams Stewed. 
Stew them gently in a little butter, for about half an hour. 

Scallops Stewed. 

Put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, some milk, 
pepper and salt ; let them simmer fifteen minutes, thicken 
with a little flour, and serve with or without chopped 
parsley. 

Scallops Fried in Batter. 

Make a batter with a cupful of milk thickened with flour 
and a teaspoonful of yeast powder, and one egg ; dip the 
scallops in the batter, and fry in hot butter and lard. 

Mussels. 

Wash and scrape them very clean ; stew them with fresh 
butter, season with salt, pepper, parsley, bread-crumbs, and 
a little vinegar. 

Mussels with White Sauce. 

Take them from the shells, put them in a saucepan with 
some fresh butter, parsley, and sweet herbs, minced flne ; 
season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Put it upon the fire, 
and when the liquor is wasted away, put in. the yolks oi 
eggs and lemon-juice. Serve. 
4 



74 hand-book fob the kitchek. 

Mussels with Brown Sauce. 

Take tHem from the shells, put them in a saucepan with 
browned flour and butter, a little parsley and sweet herbs, 
minced fine ; salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it upon the fire, 
and when the Hquor is wasted awaj, add some lemon-juice. 



MEATS. 



Obsebvations. 

In boiling meat, be sure to have very clean pans or ket* 
ties. Put the meat into cold water, and boil slowly ; in 
boiling beef or mutton, first rub it well with flour ; keep the 
kettle covered ; skim well. 

In broiling meat, have a clear bright fire, have jour grid- 
iron thoroughly heated, and the bars rubbed with suet, 
have a double gridiron, and turn repeatedly Vhile broiling. 
Heat your dish ; put butter, salt and pepper upon the dish 
before dishing the meat. 

To Boil Beef. 

Put the meat in cold water, over a slow fire. Allow one 
hour for four or five pounds of beef. 

Beefsteak Bboiled. 

Have a double gridiron, heat it thoroughly, rub it with 
lAuet ; have the steak about an inch thick ; if not very ten- 
der, pound it on a board ; broil it over a clear fire ; turn 
several times. Have your dish warm, put in it some but* 
ter, salt and pepper; rub the steak into it. Serve hot. 
You may squeeze a little lemon-juice over it if you wish 
Or broil some ripe tomatoes over it. 

Beefsteak Fbied. 

If not tender, pound it with a rolling-pin. Heat your 
pan ; if the meat is very lean, put a little butter in the pan ; 



76 HAND-BOOK FOB TEIE KITOHBN. 

put it over a slow fire; turn frequently; take the meat 
from the pan when done, add a little water to the juice, 
with a little flour, salt and pepper ; cook it, and pour it 
over the steak, hot, or serve with a sauce (see Sauces). 

Steak with Onions. 

Fry as above; when done, dish it; stir some flour and 
a very Httle water into the gravy ; let it cook, season with 
pepper and salt ; have some onions parboiled and sliced, 
add them to the gravy ; cook carefully ; when done, pour 
them over your steak, and serve hot. 

Beefstkak 1 l'Italienne* 

Season the steaks with salt, pepper, and coriander 
seed ; sprinkle over some rose vinegar and elder vinegar ; 
lay them one upon another for an hour ; then broil them on 
a double gridiron ; serve with their own gravy and a little 
orange-juice. 

Beefsteak Eolled. 

Beat the steak ; take a large one without bone ; make a 
dressing as follows : mince fine some meat of poultry, 
cold veal, lean and fat, cold boiled bacon (fat), parsley, 
onions,, sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms ; the beaten 
yolks of eggs ; a little milk ; salt and pepper, and herbs. 
Spread this over the steak, roll them up, fasten them ; 
stew in a little water; when done, drain them; put on 
warm dishes ; make a gravy with some browned flour. 

Beefsteak with Tomatoes. 

Broil the steak on one side, and turn it ; slice the toma- 
toes thin, and lay them on the crieak ; when the steak is 
done, put it on a hot steak-dish; press the steak and 
tomatoes together, season with pepper, salt and butter. 



MEATS. 77 

Beefsteak Stewed. 

Take round steak, cut about an inch thick : £17 it witb 
some fat, over a brisk fire ; put it with the gravy and a 
little good stock, a little port wine, into a stew-pan, stew 
gently ; ^hen tender, dish it ; strain some of the sauce 
over it, and garnish with grated horseradish. 

Beef Stewed. 

Take a piece of the round ; rub it with pepper, salt, and 
allspice ; put it in just sufficient hot water to cover it; put 
in two or three onions, chopped ; when partly done, add 
some tomatoes, skinned ; some boiled carrots ; dredge occa- 
sionally with browned flour ; dish, and pour the gravy over. 

Another Meihod. 

Cut the beef in pieces ; parboil them in a beef-broth ; 
brown some butter and flour, moistened with broth, in a 
stew-pan ; put the beef in, with some onions parboiled ; a 
glass of sherry ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; parsley ; pepper 
and salt ; stew until quite tender ; skim,* add a few capers, 
put the beef in your dish, and garnish with the onions ; pour 
the sauce over. 

Brisket of Beef Stewed. 

Put it in sufficient water to cover it ; let it stew until 
tender ; skim off the fat, strain the gravy ; add a glassful 
of port wine, and flavor with spice, in a bag. Dish it, and 
garnish with boiled vegetables. 

Beef Stewed. 

Put some rough pieces of beef in your pot ; cover with 
hot water ; add three or four chopped onions, some salt and 
pepper; boil slowly, when nearly done, dredge some 



78 HAND-BOOK FOR THE EITOHBN. 

browned flour ; cook off all tHe water, and let it Drowii 
Serve in its own gravy. 

Another Method, 

Put the beef on the fire, with just sufficient water to 

cover it, a little salt; when partly done, add three or 

four onions, chopped, some cloves, fat pork, chopped ; when 

tender, add some good vinegar, thicken with flour; cook 

slowly for some time ; add a little pepper. Thicken and 

brown the gravy. 

Another Method. 

Put it over the Are, with sufficient water to cover it ; add 
some sliced potatoes, carrots, turnips, and an onion; sea- 
son ; stew slowly ; when tender, pour off the gravy, and 
brown the meat ; skim the gravy, and thicken with sifted 
flour; dish the meat with the vegetables, and pour the 
gravy over. 

Beef 1 la Mode. 

Parboil a brisket of beef; tie strips of fat bacon around 
it ; put sticks across your dripping-pan. Put into your pan 
some vinegar, salt, and pepper, spice, cloves, and mace, onion, 
rind of a lemon, and sage ; place the meat upon the sticks, 
and baste constantly. When done, let it simmer in the 
sauce ; the sauce should be thickened a little with flour. 

Another Method, 
Take a tender piece of round, make openings through it. 
Make a stuffing of fat bacon, chopped fine, with pepper, 
cloves, mace, onion, carrot, sweet herbs, and bread-crumbs ; 
mix well tog3ther, and force into the openings. Put it into 
a pan, chop some onions, bacon, herbs, bread, spice ; put 
this over the top, sprinkle with red pepper, and flour ; pour 
over a cupful of vinegar or wine. Let it simmer slowly, for 
some time, then bake in a quick oven. Baste while baking « 



J 



MEATS. 79 

Beef Bouilli. 

Put the beef in a saucepan, with a little water and salt ; 
(mrboil, then add some pepper, and four or five onions cut 
fine ; some ground cloves, and vinegar ; when tender, stir in 
some browned flour ; let it simmer. When done, should be 
tender as boiled tongue ; serve with the gravy poured over. 

Beef 1 la Braise. 

Cut off the long bones and fat from a piece of rib-beef. 
Tie around it large pieces of bacon, seasoned with spices, 
sweet herbs, parsley, onions, and mushrooms, chopped fine. 
Cover the bottom of your stew-pan with pieces of fat bacon, 
and over that lean beefsteak, seasoned with spice, herbs, 
and onion, lemon-peel, pepper and salt. Put in the beef, 
fleshy side down ; season the upper side the same. Cover 
the saucepan close, put it upon the fire, with fire over it, 
or put it in the oven. Serve with sauce (see Sauces). 

Spiced Beef. 

Pound till tender a slice of beef. Spread it with whole 
pepper, allspice, and cloves ; roll it up and tie ; drop it in 
some beef-brine for a day or two ; wash it clean ; make a 
paste, roll it out ; mass it around the beef. Tie it in a pud- 
ding-cloth, and boil for about two hours. 

Beef 1 la Yinaiore. 

Have a piece of lean beef, about three inches thick ; 
pound well, stew it in water and a wineglassful or one-half 
gUl of white wine vinegar ; season with salt, pepper, cloves, 
hunch of sweet herbs. When the liquid is almost ex- 
hausted, take it from the fire. Serve the meat cold, with 
slices of lemon. 



60 hand-book for thb kitchen. 

Beef Tenderloin. 

Put the tenderloin whole in a stew-pan, with some grayv 
spice, pepper, salt, cayenne, one tablespoonfui walnut cat« 
sup. Simmer ; add a little browned flour to the gravy. 

Fillet of Beef Roasted. 

Lard it, baste with fresh butter, while roasting. Season 
well ; take one hour to one hour and a half. Serve with 
tomato sauce. Garnish with horseradish, an4 serve with 
currant jelly. 

Fillet of Beef. 

Put a thin slice of fat beef in your pan ; place the fillet 
on it ; season with salt and pepper. Cover the top with a 
little thin fat. Chop fine one-half pound round of beef; 
put it in an earthen dish, with water to cover. Put it in a 
moderate oven, until the juice is drawn out. Season with 
salt and pepper ; add some butter ; baste the fillet with it, 
when about half-cooked, constantly till tender. Take the 
fillet from the gravy ; dredge with flour, put it in the upper 
part of a quick oven. Place some butter on the flour, 
baste it ; when nicely browned, take it from the oven. 

Boles fob Boasting Beef. 

Ten pounds of beef will take two hours to two and one- 
half. Six pounds, from an hour and one-quarter to an hour 
and one-half. Fat beef does not require basting. 

Coloring. 

Pub a tablespoonfui of flour in a pan over the fire, and 
stir it until of a rich brown ; do not let it bum. 

Beef Boasted. 

Wash it, and rub it over with salt, pepper and flour. 
Boast it in a good oven. Baste with ite own gravy, while 



MEATS. 81 

cooking. Wlien done, dish it; put the dripping-pan over 
the fire, stir in some flour ; add a little water. Let it cook 
slowly ; pour a little over your meat, and serve the remain- 
der in a sauce-boat. 

Cold Beef Dressed* 

Cut the meat in thin slices ; put them into some strong 
broth, in a stew-pan ; add some minced parsley, an onion, 
and a small piece of butter. Let it simmer fifteen minutes, 
then add a glassful of port wine, a little lemon-juice, and 
the yolks of two eggs beaten ; mix well, stew quickly ; warm 
the dish over steam; rub it with onion; pour the stew 
into it, and serve. 

Another Method, 

Season the slices with pepper; fry them in butter a 
light brown ; boil a cabbage, squeeze it dry, chop it fine ; 
remove the beef from, the pan ; put the cabbage in, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper; keep the pan moving for a few 
minutes ; place the cabbage in the centre of the dish, with 
the meat around it. 

Beef Kidney Fried. 

Cut off the fat and skin ; cut the kidney in thin slices ; 
sprinkle them with salt, nutmeg, and cayenne pepper, and a 
little minced parsley. Fry them brown, on both sides, then 
add to some good gravy some Madeira wine. When the 
Kidneys are brown, pour it gradually into the pan; just as 
it boils, add a tablespoonful of lemon-juice and a small 
piece of butter. Put some small pieces of bread in your 
dish ; pour the kidney and gravy over it. 

Beef Kidney Stewed. 

Out the kidney in squares, carefully cutting off the sinews 
washy and put it in a stew-pan, with salt, enough water to 



82 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITOHEN. 

cover ; stew until tender ; add some chopped onion, pepper 
ground cloves, a little celery and parsley. Simmer nntU 
very tender, thicken vTith a tablespoonfol of browned Ikour, 
rubbed with two ounces of butter. Serve on toast. 

Beef Heart Boasted. 

Wash it well, stuff it with forcemeat (see Made Dishes), 
then roast it, which will take about forty minutes ; have a 
clear fire. Serve with currant jelly. 

The forcemeat can be made of bread soaked in hot water, 
seasoned with salt, pepper, chopped fat pork or suet. Baste 
frequently while roasting. 

Beef Tongues. 

Parboil the tongue in water with salt, then cut off the 
roots, take oif the skin, tie strips of bacon on it, roast it, 
basting with butter, vinegar, salt and pepper. When done, 
cut it in slices, stew it with capers, parsley, and onion, 
chopped fine ; add some gravy, salt, pepper, and vinegar. 

Or boil simply. 

Wilson Packing Co.'s beef tongues are very convenient 
when you wish to get up a lunch or supper suddenly. 




To Carve Sirloin of Beef. 

Carve long thin slices from 1 to 2 ; the under part at th« 
line 3 is the tenderloin. 




Brisket of Beef. 
Carve from 1 to 2 down to the bone, having first cnt oB 



AiTCH-BoNE OF Beef. 
Cut off a thick slice from the entire surface, as marked 1, 
S ; the solid fat is at 3, and must be cut across; the soft fat 
V ill be found at i. 

EouHS OP Beef. 
Carve the same as aitch-ltone. 

WitsoK Fackiks Compaky's corned beef in cans is verj 
useful for small families, who do not always care to ooob 



84 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITGHEK. 

meats, ^e have used it a great deal. Is ready for the 
table. The meat is in a solid form, and cuts in nice slices. 

To Broil Mutton Chops. 

Trim them nicely, taking off the fat and skin ; have the 
gridiron clean and hot, over a clear fire ; put the chops on ; 
turn them often, to keep them from burning ; season ^ith 
pepper and salt. When done, put them on a hot dish, rub 
some butter over them, and serve. 

Another Method. 

Have them cut from the leg ; rub them with onion, broil 
them over a quick fire ; have your dish hot, rub it over with 
onion ; season the chops with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Chops Fried. 

Take off the fat and fry it in a pan ; roll the chops in flour, 
salt and pepper ; fry them in the fat, turning them frequently 
until done through. 

Mutton Cutlets. 

Cut off the thick end of the bone, put them in a saucepan 
with . some melted butter and salt ; stew without browning. 
Mix some parsley and thyme with the yolks of eggs beaten ; 
when the cutlets are cool, dip them in the mixture, and rub 
them over with fine bread-crumbs, sprinkle a little cayenne 
pepper over, and broil them over a brisk fire ; when done, 
dish them, squeeze some lemon-juice over them; garnisl? 
with slices of lemon. 

Loin op Mutton Stewed, 

Remove the skin and bone, roll it, put it in a stew-pan 
with a pint and a half of water, two dessertspoonfuls of 
sherry wine, a piece of butter, some sweet herbs, two onio^is 



MKAT8. 81) 

chopped ; stew until tender, three or four hoars ; nftrain off 
the gravy. Serve with jelly. 

Mutton Stewed. 

Joint a neck-piece, put it in a kettle, just cover it with 
water, add a little salt ; when partly done, slice in three or 
four onions, some carrots, thyme or any sweet herb ; pepper 
and salt to taste ; when tender, thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour, mixed with a little water, add a little chopped pars- 
ley ; dish it on some slices of toast or bread ; garnish with 
fresh parsley and slices of carrot. 

Leg op Mutton Boiled. 

Soak it four hours in water and salt, rinse it and dry it ; 
roll it in a floured cloth and boil it about two hours. Serve, 
garnished with parsley and drawn butter or caper or oyster 
sauce. 

Leo of Mutton 1 la Bbaise. 

Take off most of the knuckle of a leg of mutton, divide 
it in two or three pieces, trim off the rough edges of the 
leg and half roast it; place it with the trimmings and 
knuckle in a stew-pan, add some slices of {kt bacon, some 
ihyme, sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, half an 
ounce of butter rubbed in flour ; stew slowly, shaking and 
turning while stewing ; when tender, take it up, skim the 
gravy, strain it, boil until reduced. Put the meat in a dish, 
pour the glaze over it, and serve. 

Neck op Mutton. 

Boil slowly until nearly done ; moisten some bread-crumbs 
and sweetbreads, chopped fine, with the beaten yolks of 
eggs. Cover the mutton with it and roast it. Mutton 
steaks can be cooked in the same maimer. 



86 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

Breast op Mutton Stewed. 

Stew it until tender, in gravy or water ; bone it, season 
witk salt and pepper ; boil it, skim the fsit from the gravy, 
add some mushroom catsup and a little browned flour to the 
gravy. Let it simmer, dish the meat and pour the gravy 
over it. 

McJTTON Kidneys Broiled. 

Skin and split them, without separating ; place the opened 
sides first to the fire ; turn them in a few minutes, sprinkle 
with salt and cayenne, and in three minutes take them from 
the fire, put a piece of butter inside, squeeze some lemon- 
juice over them and serve very hot. 

Observations on Boasting. 

Leg of about eight pounds will take one hour and a half. 
Saddle of ten pounds, one hour and a quarter to one hour 
and a half. Shoulder, one hour and a half. Loin the same. 
Breast, three-quarters of an hour. Neck, one hour. 

To Roast Mutton. 

Put a little fat or drippings in your pan. Put the meat 
in. Baste with the gravy when it is hot fifteen minutes 
before you wish to serve. Add half a pint of water to 
the fat ; dredge with fiour and salt. When the meat is 
dished, remove the fat, brown some flour, add it with a 
little salt ; strain it into yOu'r boat. 

To Boast a Leg op Mutton. 

Boil it until tender, take it from the water, sprinkle it 
with salt and pepper, rub it with flour. Boast it quickly, 
one hour. 

Leg op Mutton Boned and Stuffed. 

Bemove the bones. Make a nice stuffing (see Sauces) , 
put it in the leg, fasten the knuckle end tightly, roast it ; 



MEATS. 87 

let the knuckle end be down ; baste well while roasting. 
Serve with a good rich gravy. 

Leo of Mutton Rolled. 

Cut out the bone, spread out the meat, lay sciLe slices of 
bacon on it, well seasoned. Make a forcemeat of some 
meat of fowl, bacon, suet, parsley and mushrooms ; seasoc 
with salt, pepper, herbs and spices. Mince all fine, add a 
few bread-crumbs, soaked in milk, with the yolks of three 
eggs beaten. Spread it on the mutton, roll it up and tie it. 
Put some slices of bacon in your stew-pan, some slices of 
beef, onions, carrot, parsnips, parsley, salt, pepper and 
spices. Put the mutton in, cover it with the same season- 
ing. Stew it. Serve with the sauce over it or a ragotlt foi 
rolled mutton. 

Leo of Mutton Koasted. 

Wash it, season with pepper and suit, rub some butter 
over it, and dredge it with flour. Let it roast slowly. 
Serve with boiled onions or currant jelly. 

Shoulder Boasted. 

Take out the blade, make a seasoning of bread, salt, 
pepper and butter ; stuff it full and round, season the out- 
side with pepper and salt, dredge some flour over and roast. 
Serve with boiled onions. 

Saddle of Mutton Roasted. 

Take off the skin, dredge the saddle with flour, and baste 
it well while roasting. Before roasting remove the fat. 

To Dbess Mutton over. 

Take out the bone, cut the meat open, put a nice dress- 
ing in, and roll it up. Put it in a stew-pan with water to 



8S HAND-BOOK FOB THS IklTOUEN. 

eorer it ; add a few vegetables chopped fine, turnips, oap 
rota, oaions, parsley and potatoes. Stew for about two 
hours, thicken the gravy with flour, and sen'e with thr 
vegetables around the dish. 



To Carve Mutton. 
Iitg. — Carve in thin slices from B to C. 




Saddle. — Carve from A. to B thin slices ; then carve ai 
C, D. 

Zotn. — If small, should he carved in chops. IT large 
<arve slices the whole length. 



MEAW. 8U 




Shovlder. — Cut into the bone at the line 1, and help thin 
slices of lean from each side ; the fat lies at 2. If more 
meat is required cut on either side of the line 3. 

FOBE-QUABTBB OF LaHB BoASTED. 

Loosen the shoulder from the ribs, round three sides, turn 
over the shoulder, and take out the blade. Make a nice 
stuffing of bread-crumbs, lard, salt, pepper, and a little 
thyme ; put it in the place of the bone ; turn it over on the 
ribs, and skewer it down ; have the ribs cracked in several 
places, so it can be carved easily; roast it gently ; baste it 
while cooking. Serve with or without sauce. (See Sauces. ) 

LoiK OF Lamb Boasted with Tomatoes. 

Separate the joints of the loin from the leg ; place it in a 
pan with the kidney uppermost; season with pepper, salt, 
and a few cloves, a pint of water, and a dozen ripe tomatoes 
skinned. Boast it ; thicken the gravy with butter and a 
little browned flour. 

Lamb Boasted. 

Wash it; rub salt and pepper over it; dredge it with 
flour or bread-crumbs; roast slowly; baste it, first with 
salt and water, and when dry, baste it with butter or lard. 
Boast it a light brown. Serve with mint or sauce to taste. 



90 HAND-BOOK FOB THE EITCHEK. 

Bbiskbt OF Lamb Stewbd. 

Cut it in pieces, season well with pepper and salt; stew 
gently in suffioient gravy to cover the meat until tender; 
thicken the sauce ; add a glassful of sherry. 

Leo of Lakb Boiled. 

Let it remain half an hour in cold water ; add half a hand- 
ful of salt; put it in a thin white cloth, floured, and boil 
it ; add a bunch of sweet herb. Serve with spinach ; dkAwn 
butter. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Another Method, 

Wash the lamb ; put it in cold water, with salt ; bnil ; 
when done, pour some rich drawn butter over it ; gami»h 
with parsley and serve. 

Lamb Chops, etc., 
Are boiled and fried the same as mutton. 



To Cabve. 

Jfhre-QiMrter. — ^Divide the shoulder from the breast ami 
ribs by passing the knife under the knuckle in the direction 
of 1, 2, 3 ; divide it in the line 3, 4 ; cut as 5, 6. 

ZfOin ofZ/omb. — Carve in chops if small; if large, carvi 
slices the whole length. 



MEATS. 91 

Shoulder of iMmh, — Carved in the same mannex aa 
Bhoulder of mutton. 

Leg of Lamb. — Should be carved as leg of mutton. 



VEAL. 

Cutlets Fried. 

Dip them in beaten egg ; roll in bread-crumtbs, and fry in 
hot lard and butter ; season with salt and pepper. Can be 
fried plain. 

Another Method. 

Let them lay for some time in lemon-juice, cloves, bay- 
leaves, salt and pepper. Make a batter of flour, egg, well 
beaten, water, salt, and lump of butter melted. Dip the 
cutlets in the batter, and fry in }iot lard. Garnish with 
fried parsley. 

Another Method, 

Season the cutlets with salt and pepper; loU them in 
flour; fry them a light brown in melted bacon; fry slowly. 

Cutlets Bboiled. 

Heat the gridiron ; rub it well with bacon or pork ; put 
the cutlets on ; turn them frequently ; when done, roll them 
in butter, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Another Method, 

Dip them in melted bacon, seasoned with minced herbs, 
salt, and pepper ; dredge with bread-crumbs ; broil on hot 
gridiron. 

Veal Cutlets Curried. 

Dip the cutlets in the beaten yolks of eggs. Make a sea- 
Boning of bread-crumbs, salt, and a little curry powder, about 



92 s ' HAND-BOOK FOB THE lOl'CHEN. 

two spoonfuls to four of bread-crumbs ; fly them in butter ; 
serve with sauce. Take an equal quantity of curry powder, 
flour, and fresh butter, make into a paste, add cupful of 
water, some cayenne pepper, and salt, stir it over the fire 
until it thickens. Place the cutlets on the dish and pour the 
sauce over them. 

To Farce Cutlets. 

Take some cold boiled veal or mutton ; chop it with a 
little bacon, parsley and onion. Mix all well, and pound it 
in a mortar, with bread-crumbs and spice (soak the crumbs 
in milk) add some yolks of eggs. Put strips of fat bacon 
on the cutlets, put the farce upon them. Shape them 
smooth with beaten egg, dredge with bread-crumbs, put 
tbem in a pan, and cook them a nice brown in the oven. 

To Boil a Leo of Veal, 

Wash it well, rub it over with flour, put in a pot with 
cold water, a tablespoonf ul of salt, boil slowly. Serve with 
drawn butter (see Sauces) ; garnish with fresh parsley. 

Knuckle of Yeal Boiled. 

Boil slowly in sufficient water to cover it; when it 
comes to a boil, add a dessertspoonful of salt ; skim contin- 
ually. When tender, serve with parsley and butter. It 
can be boiled with rice, green peas, or turnips. 

Knuckle of Yeal Jellied. 

Separate the joints. Boil in sufficient water to cover it ; 
boil gently until the bones slip out easily ; season with 
pepper and salt, thyme, onion, mace, and the juice of a 
lemon. Bemove the meat, simmer until thickened and al- 
most stifll Turn into a mould, let it cool ; serve sliced ; gar 
nish with jelly and parsley. 



MEATS. 93 

Fillet of Yeal Boiled. 

Tie it in a floured cloth ; put it into cold water and boil 
two and a lialf hours. Serve with oyster sauce. (See 
Sauces.) 

Loin of Yeal Boiled. 

Boil slowly, in sufficient water to cover it, with some 
Bait ; skim frequently. Serve with drawn butter. Garnish 
with parsley. 

Baeast of Yeal Boiled. 

Put it into cold water, skim while boiling ; when it boils, 
add a bunch of parsley, a few blades of mace, bunch of 
sweet herbs, some white peppers ; stew for an hour and a 
quarter. Serve with boiled bacon, parsley and butter. 

Yeal Curried. 

Take any cold veal. Put six ounces of butter into a 
stew-pan, with half a pint of white stock, and a table- 
spoonful of curry powder ; add the veal to this, cover close, 
simmer for two hours. Squeeze a little lemon-juice in, and 
serve with boiled rice. 

Knuckle of Yeal Stewed. 

Put it in a stew-pan, with an onion, some thyme, blades 
of mace, whole pepper and a crust of toasted bread, fine, 
with sufficient water to cover it; cover closely. When ten- 
der, set it back to simmer for two hours ; dish, strain the 
liquor over it, garnish with slices of lemon. 

Breast of Yeal Stewed. 

Put it in a stew-pan with a little white stoi k ; add a 
glass of sherry, a bunch of sweet herbs, three onions, pepper 
and salt. Stew until tender ; strain the gravy, and serve, 
garnished with forcemeat balls. 



94 HAND-BOOK rOB THB KITCHEN. 

To Boast Yeal. 

A piece of eight pounds weight will take one and a 
half to two hours. Loin weighing four pounds, one hour 
and a quarter. Breast, six pounds, one hour. Shoulder 
and neck, six pounds, will take one hour. 

Veal Boasted. 

Wash it, rub it with salt and pepper ; dredge with flour. 
Boast in a moderate oven, baste with butter or lard. 
Serve with boiled bacon or ham. 

Fillet of Yeal, Boasted. 

Take out the bone, put in a good stuffing (see Sauces). 
Boast it gradually. Leave on the caul until nearly done. 
Serve with boiled bacon or ham, and currant jelly. 

Bbeast or Shoulder Boasted. 

Take out the bone. Make a dressing of bread-crumbs, 
soaked in hot water, seasoned with salt and pepper, pork, 
or suet, chopped fine ; mix all together; fill the opening, sew 
it up, rub some lard over it, dredge with flour ; put it in a 
good oven. When partly done, baste with butter. 

Sweetbreads Boasted. 

Lard them with small pieces of bacon ; roast them a nice 
brown. Pour some essence of ham over, and serve hot. 

Sweetbreads with Parsley. 

Boil them and skim them carefully ; dip in well-beaten 
eggs ; season with salt and pepper ; roll them in bread- 
crumbs ; fry them in the fat of fried pork. Serve with 
butter and parsley sauce. 



MEATS. 95 

Sweetbreads Fbied. 

Wash them ; let them stand an hour or two in salt wa- 
ter ; dry them on a napkin ; dip them in heaten egg, and 
roll them in fine rolled cracker or bread-crumbs ; fry in 
melted lard, turning them. 

Sweetbreads with Tohatoes. 

Put them in boiling water for five minutes, then in cold 
water ; skim them carefully. Put them in water, over a 
slow fire, with some salt and pepper. Stir a spoonful of 
flour, with a large piece of butter, into the gravy. Simmer ; 
stir the gravy into a quart of stewed tomatoes ; stir in some 
flour, season to taste. Let it thicken ; strain through a 
wire sieve into a saucepan, and boil a few minutes ; pour 
it over the sweetbreads, and serve. 

Calf's Head Baked. 

Butter the head, dredge it with a seasoning made of fine 
bread-crumbs, some chopped sweet herbs and sage, red and 
white pepper, and salt. Divide the brains, sprinkle them 
with fine bread-crumbs, and place them in the dish with the 
head. Put some small pieces of butter over the head, 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs, take out the eyes, pour into the 
dish some water, two-thirds fiill; bake in a quick oven 
about two hours. 

Calf's Head and Oysters. 

Divide the head ; take out the brains and tongue ; parboil 
them ; blanch the tongue in hot water ; mince them with a lit- 
tle sage, beef-suet, and a few oysters, the yolks of four eggs, 
beaten, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, bread-crumbs ; parboil 
the head, fill the head and mouth with the seasoning ; stufi^ 
it with oysters. Bake it in the oven ; save the gravy, add 
to it some white wine and a little nutmeg, a few oysters ana 



9f> HAKO-BOOK FOB THB STTOHEN. 

sweet herbs minced ; put it over the fire in a saucepan, add 
some butter, lemon-juice, and a little salt ; beat it until it 
thickens. Dish the head, and pour the sauce over. 

Calf's Eabs. 

Scald off the hair and clean them thoroughly. Make a 
stuffing of cairs liver, grated ham, fat bacon, bread steeped 
in milk, sweet herbs, mace, salt, and an egg ; stuff the ears 
with it. Kub the ears with egg and frj them a light brown. 
Servo with brown gravy. 

Calf's Heabt Roasted. 

Stuff it with a nice bread-stuffing (see Sauces), tie it up 
in a greased paper, and roast for three-quarters of an hour. 

Calf's Brains. 

Wash them, remove the skin and scald them, chop them 

fine ; simmer, with onions, parsley, sage and white sauce ; 

season well ; serve with fried parsley and Med bread, 

under. 

Calf's Liver. 

Put it in vinegar and let it remain twelve hours ; then 
dip it in cold water and wipe it dry ; slice it, sprinkle with 
minced sweet herbs, pepper and salt ; dredge with flour ; fry 
in boiling lard or butter ; put it on a dish, pour off some of 
the fat, add a cupful of water, and a lump of butter rolled 
in flour; stir in a spoonful of vinegar and cayenne and 
ground cloves ; boil it up, stirring continually. Serve the 
liver in it. 

Liver Fried with Onions. 

Slice thin, wash and skin it ; fry some fat pork ; dip the 
liver in flour ; fry them in the pork gravy ; put the liver 
or\ a dish and the pork on top. Fry a panful of onions and 
B*»rv?. on top. 



JCBATS, 97 

LiTZK Fried in Batteb. 

Slice thin, parboil and t&ke off the skin, dip them in bftt* 

ter, season with pepper and salt, and try in hot lard. Ti. 

make the batter, beat one ^g with a cupful of milk, stir in 

■officient floor for a thin batter. 

LivBK Stewed. 

Wash and skin the liyer, cut small, put it in a sauc«paa 
with water, salt and pepper, boil tender, add some butter 
and flour and a very little cayenne; simmer some time, 
Serve on toast. 

Anather Method. 

Wash, skin, and cut it nmall ; put it in a saucepan with 
water and salt ; when partly done, cut in some onions and 
&t pork, add whole cloTea and pepper. When tender, add 
some ilonr and a little vinegar ; simmer. 

Kidney Stewed. 
Wash, and cut small ; cut out the hard white ; stew in 
water and salt for about two hours ; add some chopped 
onions, gronnd cloves, pepper and salt, fat pork, chopped 
fine. When tender, add some flour and vinegar, red and 
black pepper; simmer. Serve on toiist. 



To Cabvb 
A iTect of Veal. — Have it jointed by the butcher. 
Carve u from B te A. To separate the small Itones oni 
from C te I>. 



913 HAND-BOOS FOB THB KITOHER. 

Xotn ti^ Veal. — Turn it over, t&ke out the kidn^ aiid 
tbe fat, turn it back again, and carrs as in the neck, from 
B to A. Should be jointed before serving. 




Ji^let of Veal. — Carre in thin aliceB, from the top. Cut 
deep in between 1 and 2 for the stuffing. 



Sreatt of Veal. — Separate the ribs from A to B. 
tiie aniall bones as marked, D. The long ribs as C. 



Cttlf'e Head. — Carve from A to B, cutting down to the 
bone. The throat sweetbread is at the fleshj part of the 
neck. 



MKATS. 99 

To Boast a Pig. 

Sciape and clean the pig thoroughly. Make a dressing of 
bread soaked in hot water, seasoned with salt, pepper, but- 
ter, and sage minced. Stuff the pig with it, season the out- 
side, and put it in a quick oven ; baste at first with a little 
olive oil or butter, and afterward with its own gravy. Serve 
hot with apple sauce and any salad and pickles. 

EoAST Pig with Oysters. 

Make a seasoning of dried bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, 
butter, and chopped oysters ; moisten with oyster juice ; stuff 
the pig; roast in a good oven, and baste with a little butter ; 
rub on a little salt and pepper ; while roasting baste with 
its own gravy. Serve hot with oyster sauce, made as fol- 
lows : two dozen oysters, two oimces of fresh butter, one 
ounce of flour, three gills of milk, half a teaspoonf iil of salt, 
a little cayenne, a clove, very little mace, and three pepper- 
corns. Melt the butter and mix it with the flour ; put the 
oysters in a saucepan ; stir the liquor of the oysters* in with 
the flour and butter ; add the milk and other ingredients. 
Stew for ten minutes ; stir while stewing. Let it simmer 
some time. 

To Boiii A Pig. 

Wash and clean it thoroughly. Place the tail in the 
mouth ; put it into water and salt ; add some thyme, winter 
savory, and sweet marjoram. When parboiled, take off the 
skin, cut the pig into quarters, put it in a saucepan with 
some prunes, currants, and mace. Stew until tender. 
Serve with its own sauce. 

Boiled Pig with Oysters. 

Scrape and clean it. Make a seasoning of bread-crumbs, 
salt, pepper, and a few oysters, chopped fine ; put it in the 



100 HAND-BOOK TOR THE KXIX^EN. 

pig ; bend it ; boil it tender in water and salt. Serve with 
oyster sauce as for Boast Pig, or see Sauces. 

To Daess a Pio. 

Clean it well and heat it through; cut it up, put the 
pieces in a large saucepan, pour over them some white wine 
and broth, add a little grated nutmeg, some pepper, minced 
onions, thyme, butter, and elder vinegar ; let it stew slowly. 
When done, dish it, and serve, garnished with sliced orange 
and lemon. 

To Souse a Pig. 

Cut off the head, and slit the body through the middle f 
take out the bones ; put the flesh in warm water ; leave it 
twelve hours ; roll it up, and boil until tender. Put it in a 
pot (earthen) with salt and wat-er; add a quart of white 
wine vinegar to a quart of the liquor, and let it boil four 
hours ; add some whole cloves, pepper, and allspice. Lay the 
pig in this. It will keep three months. 

Pig's Head Boiled. 

Clean and salt it. Boil gently for an hour and a quarter. 
Serve. 

Pig's Hjsad Baked. 

Cut in two, clean it, take out the brains, trim it ; bake 
an hour and a half. Wash the brains, blanch them, beat 
them up with an eggj pepper and salt, some chopped sage, 
and a small lump of butter ; fry them, and serve with the 
head. 

Pig's Head Boasted. 

Scrape and clean it, take out the bones ; make a stufling 
of bread-crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter ; put 
it in the head ; season the outside ; put it in a quick oven ; 
baste it with butter, and let it crisp on both sides. 






MEATS. 101 

To Boil a Leo of Pork. 

Wash it, put it in water and salt, and boil tender ; ganii&b 
with fresh parsley, and serve hot or cold. 

Leo of Pore Roasted. 

Score the skin, wash it well, rub some fresh butter over 
it; chop some scalded sage very fine, add to it a parboiled 
onion, some bread-crumbs, and chopped apple ; mix all well ; 
season with salt and pepper. Make an incision in the imder* 
part; put the stuffing in. Boast it, and serve with apple 
sauce. 

Loin of Pork Boasted. 

Clean it well, score the skin, joint the leg, put it in suffi- 
cient water to cover it ; simmer until nearly done ; then 
take off the skin, coat it with the yolk of egg and bread- 
crumbs ; roast it for a quarter of an hour, or until well done. 
It can be roasted plain, with the skin on. Season with salt 
and pepper. 

Boast Pork. 

Score the skin, season with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour ; roast in a quick oven. 

Steaks Fried. 

Season with salt and pepper and flour ; fry them in a little 
butter or lard. 

Cutlets. 
Trim them, chop some sage fine, with a very httle onion , 
mix it up with bread-crumbs ; season with pepper and salt, 
and melted lard ; press the crumbs upon the cutlets, grease 
your pan, put in the cutlets, and fry them brown ; dry them, 
and dish them on mashed potatoes. 



102 hand-book for the kitohkn. 

Steaks Broilbd. 

Put them on a hot gridiron, over a quick fire. When 
done, put them on a warm dish, and season both sides with 
salt, pepper, and butter. 

Pig's Feet Soused. 

Scrape and clean them well ; roast the toes to get off the 
nails ; boil in salt and water until tender ; when done, put 
them in vinegar, and serve. After they have been in vine- 
gar some time, heat some fat or butter in your pan, put in 
the feet, and fry them crisp over a quick fire. 

Spabb Bibs Stewed. 

Chop them in small pieces, stew them in water and salt ; 
when tender, add some flour and pepper. Let them sim- 
mer ; serve in their own gravy. 

Spare Hibs Broiled. 

Bub salt and pepper on them and broil them on a hot 
gridiron. Turn often, butter them, and serve. 

Spare Bib Boasted. 
While it is roasting, baste it with butter and dredge it 
with flour ; pound some sage, and about fifteen minutes be- 
fore the rib is done, sprinkle it with the sage and a little 
salt and pepper. 

Pio's Harslet. 

Clean well the liver and sweetbreads ; add pieces of iai 
and lean pork to them ; chop fine some sage and onions ; 
season with salt and pepper. Mix with the liver, etc., roast 
it in a good oven, or stew with a little water. Serve with 
a sauce of port wine and water, and mustard boiled to- 
gether. 



MEATS. 103 

Salt Pork. 

To Fry. — Cut ii in thin slices ; fry it over a quick fire ; 
pour some milk to the gravy. Let it sunmer until thick, 
stirring. 

JBroUed. — Cut it thin ; put it on a gridiron over a quick 
fire ; dish it, and season with pepper and butter. 

jBoUecL — Wash and scrape it clean, boil it in sufficient 
water until tender. Serve with veal. 

Tripe. 

Stewed. — Scrape and clean well ; boil in water and a lit- 
tle salt and vinegar until very tender ; when done, let it 
cool. Cut it in small pieces ; put it in a saucepan with 
water to cover it. When boiling hot, add some flour and 
butter, rubbed together, and a little chopped parsley. Sim- 
mer and serve hot. 

Tripe Fried. 

« 

Wash and scrape it well ; boil tender in water and salt ; 
let it stand several hours in vinegar. Cut it in pieces, dip 
them in batter, and fry them in hot fat. Make the batter 
with an egg beaten in on^-half pint of milk, and sufficient 
flour for a thin batter. 

To Carve: Boast Pig. 

Have a sharp knife. Cut it from head to tail, down the 
back ; spread it open. Cut it down the front to separate 
it, then joint the back-bone, and cut in slices across. 

To Carve Leg op Pork. 
Commence near the middle ; cut thin, deep slices. 



HAND-BOOK FOB THE SITCHBB. 



To Oabvb Ham. 
Carra long, thin slices from A to B, or C to D. 

To Boil Ham or Bacon. 
Soak it, put it over the fire in oold water ; when done, 
take ofiT the akin, and stick whole dovea over it, and black 
pepper in spots. 

To Bake a Ham. 
Wash and parboil it ; then take off the akin. Dredge 
thickly with fiour, and bake in a quick oven. 

TTam Baked with Suoar. 
Wash and parboil it ; take otf the skin ; put on a thick 
layer of brown sugar, and bake in a quick oven. 

Ham Boiled with Wine. 
Soak and trim it ; put a little haj around it ; tie it in a 
cloth. Put it in a kettle, and cover it with two-thirds 
warm water and one-third white wine ; boil a abort time ; 
skim it ; add some carrots, onion, a bunch of herbs and a 
little garlic. Simmer gently four or five hours ; when done, 
take off the skin, sprinkle with bread-crumba and finely 
chopped parsley, and crisp in a quick oven. 



MEATS. 105 

To KoAST A. Gammon of Baoon. 

Take off the skin; put it in warm water to freshen, 
then put it in an earthen pan. Pour over it some good 
stock and let it soften ten hours. Put it in the oven, pour 
some stock in the pan and baste with it, while roasting ; 
when done, cover it with fine bread-crumbs and shred 
parsley ; brown it before the fire ; garnish with parsley. 

To Dress Ham or Bacon. 

Stew some slices in a little water ; make a sauce of sugar, 
cinnamon, some red wine, a little pepper. Put the bacon in 
the sauce ; squeeze a little orange-juice over and serve. 

Ham ob Bacon Broiled. 

Put it on a gridiron, over a quick fire; let it crisp; put 
it on a warm dish, butter it^ add a little pepper ; serve hot. 

Ham or Bacon Fried with Eggs. 

Cook it over a quick fire, and sprinkle with pepper ; have 
it in slices, or shaved. After having taken the ham from 
the pan, break in some eggs ; fry them on one side, place 
them upon the ham, if in slices ; if shaved, place the eggs 
around. 

Ham Stewed in Brandy. 

Boil the ham untU nearly tender ; take off the skin, put 
it in a saucepan, pour a pint of good brandy over, cover 
tightly, and let it simmer. 

Bacon with Greens. 

Boil a square of bacon, as directed ; when nearly donej 
put in the greens. Spinach requires fifteen to twenty min- 
utes. Serve the greens around the bacon. 



1 



MADE DISHES. 



Forced Meat. 

Boil over a good fire for half au hour two or three jounda 
of veal from leg, one pound of suet, and the same of fat 
bacon ; then put them into cold water a short time ; fii*8t 
mince all separately, then together, fine. Put it in a mar- 
ble mortar, and add some fine bread-crumbs, previously 
soaked in milk, eight eggs, beaten, pepper, salt, one-quarter 
of a nutmeg, and a little minced onion and parsley. Pound 
all to a fine paste, and save for use. 

Paste for Pot Pie. 

To one pound of flour rub in one-quarter pound of butter 

or lard ; if the latter, add a little salt ; add two teaspoonfuls 

of baking powder and sufiicient water to make a soft paste ; 

spread your board with flour, and roll the paste half an inch 

thick. 

Light Crust for Meat Pies. 

One pound of flour, white of an egg well beaten, table- 
spoonful of yeast, three ounces melted butter, sufficient warm 
milk to make a paste ; stir well together, and let it stand to 
rise ; mould lightly, and use. One spoonful of Dooly's yeast 
improves it very much. 

Potato Crust for Mutton and Beef Pies. 

Boil and mash one dozen mealy potatoes, add four ounces 
of butter, one egg well beaten ; add about one-third as mucii 



IDS HAHD-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

flour as potato ; add sufficient milk to make a paste^ then roll 
it out for use. One spoonful of Dooly's yeast improves the 
lightness. 

YxAL Pattiss. 

Mince some cold veal, a little minced bacon, parsley, 
grated lemon-peel, nutmeg; moisten with cream; season to 
taste with salt and pepper. For cold roast veal you use the 
brown gravy of the roast to moisten the mixture. line the 
patty-pans with delicate pastry ; fill in the mixture ; cover 
with pastry ; bake until the pastry is cooked. 

HASHitD Ybal. 

Mince the cold veal ; add salt and pepper to taste. Tou 
can add parsley and a little nutmeg, if you wish. Add some 
gravy, or butter and flour thickened, into some boiling water. 
Mix with the hash, and simmer until the seasoning pene* 
trates. 

Yeal Croquettes. 

Chop some tender, well-cooked veal with a little beef-suet, 
some boiled rice-— about one-third as much as meat — a little 
minced parsley, a little grated nutmeg, a little grated onion, 
salt and pepper, juice of a lemon, a little grated lemon-peel ; 
mix well together, moisten with cream sufficient for mould- 
ing ; shape them either round or pear-shaped ; dip them in 
flcur, then in beaten egg, then in rolled cracker; fry them 
in hot lard of a light brown. 

Yeal Feitters. 

Chop fine equal quantity of veal and suet ; add the same 
quantity of bread-crumbs ; season with salt (if the veal has 
been cooked you will not need the salt), pepper, nutmeg, 
parsley and thyme, beaten eggs to bind it ; shape the Mi- 
ters, dip in flour, and fry in hot lard. 



made dishes. 109 

Veal Pir 

Out the Teal in pieces ; season with salt and pepper ; boil 
until tender ; mix butter with half the quantity of flour and 
stir it into the veal; let it simmer; line your dish with 
light paste, put in your veal and cover with paste ; \ ake 
antil the pastry is cooked ; serve with pickles. This is a 
oice side-dish. 

Veal Pot Pie. 
Oat two pounds of veal in small pieces; add half a 
pound of salt pork, cut small ; add some salt and pepper ; 
put it in a pot with two quarts of water ; boil until tender, 
probably about one hour; roll out some light crust or 
bread-dough ; cut wide strips and slip in round the sides ; 
cover with crust about one inch thick ; cook gently about 
thirty minutes. Serve with the crust cut and placed around 
the dish, the meat in the centre, the gravy poured over. 

Hashed Veal. 

Mince fine some cold veal, add minced lemon-peel, nut- 
meg grated, salt, six tablespoonfuls of white stock (see 
Soups) or milk; simmer slowly; when nearly done, add 
some flour and butter rubbed together ; and when dished, 
place slices of toast cut small around the dish ; strew some 
fried bread-crumbs over the veal, and garnish with slices of 
boiled bacon. 

Veal EDlbricoed. 

Boil until tender the best end of a neck of veal in suffi 
cient water to cover it ; when the bones are loosened, take 
them out ; add to the veal three pints of rich brown gravy ; 
let it simmer ; meanwhile stew a pint of peas, and two cab- 
bage-lettuces, quartered, in good broth ; when tender, add 
them to the veal. Simmer for ten minutes. 



110 hand-book fob the kitchbn. 

Mock Lobster. 

Chop fine one pound of cold veal or mutton ; add one- 
quarter pound of fresh melted butter, one hard-boiled egg 
chopped fine, pepper, salt, and mustard, three tablespoon 
fuls of vinegar ; mix well together. 

Scotch Collops. 

Beat well some thin slices of veal, cut from the leg ; laro 
them with strips of fat pork or bacon ; rub them over with 
a seasoning made of salt, pepper, nutmeg, young onions, 
savory herbs, minced fine ; dip the slices in yolks of eggs, 
beaten with flour ; fry in fresh butter, and serve with an- 
chovy sauce. 

Hash Croquette. 

Mince fine some cold meat ; add bread-crumbs, onions, 
salt, pepper, lemon-peel, nutmeg, parsley, a little melted 
butter; stir them over the fire for a few minutes; when 
cool, make into balls ; dip them in egg, sprinkle with fine 
bread-crumbs ; fry a golden brown. Serve with gravy. 

Hashed Beef. 

Cut cold roast beef into pieces about an inch square; 
put it in a stew-pan and simmer it a few minutes ; add the 
gravy from the boat, and the dish, take off some of the fat ; 
serve hot on toast or balls of mashed potato. 

Another Metliod, 
Mince fine one pound of cold boiled corned beef, and the 
same of cold boiled potatoes, and one small onion ; put it 
into boiling water, with an ounce of butter, pepper and 
salt ; stir over a slow fire ; when done, serve on toast. 

Beefsteak Pie. 
Take the steak from the round, cut it in small pieces ; 
Bte^ it until tender in a little water ; season with salt and 






MADK DISU£8. Ill 

pepper ; thicken with butter and flour, rubbed together ; 
put in a dish with a nice paste ; bake and serve with slices 
of lemon or tomatoes. 

Shepherd's Pie. 

Mince flne some cold meat, and flour it well ; put a small 
quantity of water on the bones ; season with salt and pepper, 
a little catsup, and one or two pickled onions; simmer it 
until a rich gravy ; take out the bones, put the meat in the 
gravy, boil up once ; put the meat and gravy in a deep dish, 
then boil and mash some potatoes, All up the dish, put one 
or two lumps of butter over the potatoes, place it before a 
clear Are ; when well browned, serve hot. 

Lamb Pie, or Mutton. 

Cut into small pieces about two pounds of lamb or 
mutton ; season with pepper and salt ; add some chopped 
bacon and a little thyme or savory; stew until tender; 
add a little flour and butter; cover the sides of a deep 
dish with paste ; put in the meat ; cover with crust for 
meat pie or potato crust ; bake. 

Mutton Harbicoed. 

Cut a scrag of mutton into joints, wash well, and parboil 
it, in sufficient water to cover it, adding a little salt ; then 
add some peeled potatoes, chopped parsley, and two table- 
spoonfuls each of flour and butter, rubbed together ; let it 
simmer ; dish upon slices of toast ; garnish with parsley and 
sliced carrots and pickled beets. 

Mutton Hash. 

Mince flne some cold mutton ; put it in a stew-pan, with 
a little water ; add salt and pepper ; thicken with flour and 
butter, rubbed together. Simmer and serve on toast. 



112 HAND-BOOK FOB THE SITOHEN. 

Another Method, 

Mince fine some cold roast mutton, with some parsley, a 
little boiled ham, truffles, amd mushrooms ; put it in a stew- 
pan, with salt, pepper, slice of lemon, a little essence of ham, 
and yeaJ gravy. Stir over a slow fire. 

Irish Stew. 

Cut into small pieces four pounds of the breast of mutton ; 
put it in a stew-pan, with sufficient water to cover it ; put 
it over the fire, and when about half done, put in about a 
dozen potatoes, peeled and sliced, two large white onions, 
some carrots, fine herbs, pepper and salt, a little salt pork, 
half pound of flour, and quarter pound of butter, rubbed 
together ; boil slowly until well done ; garnish, when dished, 
with slices of carrot and fresh parsley. 

PoBK Pie. 

Take some pork from the loin ; cut it in small pieces ; 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add some water ; cover 
it, and simmer until nearly done. Line the sides of your 
dish with paste ; put in the pork ; cut some pippins in small 
pieces ; add them to the pork ; add sugar and half a pint of 
white wine ; cover the pie with paste and bake. 

Another Method, 

Stew until tender some slices of lean pork ; add salt and 
pepper; stir in a little butter and fiour, rubbed together. 
Line your dish with paste ; put in the meat ; cover with 
puff paste, and bake. 

Potato Pie. 

Peel and slice thin some boiled potatoes ; put a layer into 
your pie-dish ; put on a few slices of onion ; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper ; add a little water, a few slices of butter. 



HADE DISHES. 113 

then another layer of potatoes, onions, etc., until yoor dish 
is full ; then hake. 

Spanish Patties. 

Parhoil a small piece of £it hacon, small piece of veal, 
and the hreast of a pullet ; mince fine ; season with spices, 
pounded; add a little garlic; make your patties of puff- 
paste ; put in the meat, and hake. 

Forcemeat fob Chicken Pie. 

Mince fine some hacon ; a little marrow ; add salt, pep- 
per, nutmeg, and parsley ; lay it around the chicken with 
boiled lettuce. 

Chicken Pie. 

Gut in small pieces a pair of young chickens; add salt 
and pepper, and slips of salt pork ; boil for half an hour in 
sufficient water to cover them ; then add butter and flour, 
rubbed together, to thicken the gravy; put a good paste 
into a deep dish ; put in the chicken ; cover with puff-paste 
and bake half an hour. 

Chicken ob Yeal Pie. 

Mince fine some cold chicken or veal ; half the quantity 
of ham ; add a little cream, white pepper, cayenne, salt, and 
nutmeg; small piece of shallot chopped jme. Line your 
dish with crust, put in the chicken, and cover with fine 
paste. 

Chicken Pot Pie. 

Draw the chickens carefully; take out the crop; joint 
them ; cut off the legs and the lower part of the wings ; 
separate the breast from the back ; split the back down the 
middle; chop it across; cut the white meat of the breast 
in four pieces ; take out the liver, being careful not to break 
the gall ; clean the gizzards ; put all into cold water wi^ a 



114 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHEN. 

little salt, and wash them well ; put them in a stew-pan ; 
cover with water ; put in a little fat bacon, chopped ; stew 
until tender ; rub together one and a half ounce of butter 
and a tablespoonful of flour ; stir it slowly into the chicken. 
'Roll out a light crust, half an inch thick ; cut strips and put 
it around the sides of the chicken ; spread the remainder 
over the top. Cook gently twenty minutes ; do not let the 
bottom bum. Serve it with the crust laid around the dish, 
and the chicken in the middle ; the white meat on top ; gar- 
nish with parsley. 

A Good Made Dish. 

Draw a good- sized fowl, as above ; put it in a saucepan 
with a little water ; some finely chopped ham ; half pound 
sausage-meat ; chopped onion ; quarter pound fresh butter, 
bunch of sweet herbs, a few dried mushrooms, chopped fine, 
pepper and salt ; stew until quite tender, adding water occa- 
sionally, to keep it from becoming dry. Take off the skin ; cut 
the meat in small pieces. Boil a pound of rice ;, have it dry, 
and mix it with the fowl and gravy ; season to taste ; put it 
on one side of the fire, for half an hour, to be nearly dry. 

Turkey Patties. 

Mince some of the white meat of roast or boiled turkey 
with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, pepper, milk, a little 
melted butter ; cover the patty-pans with paste ; put in the 
turkey ; cover with rich paste and bake. 

Duck Pie. 

Draw the duck carefully, clean it well, boil it for a 
quarter of an hour, cut it up while hot, save the gravy ; 
then take the giblets, a little butter, a blade of mace, six 
black pepper-corns, two onions, small piece of bread, toasted, 
bunch of herbs, and a little red pepper ; stew until the but- 



MADE DIBHSS. 115 

fcer is melted, then add one-half pint of boiling water, stow 
until the giblets are tender, then strain, put the giblets with 
the duck. Let the gravy get cold (skim off the fat), then 
put it, with that which comes from the duck, at the bottom 
of a dish lined with a plain crust, put in the duck, season 
well with salt, pepper, and a little butter, cover with puff- 
paste. 

Gk>osE Pie. 

Draw well, and clean the goose, parboil it, take out the 
bones, cut it in pieces, season with pepper and salt. Line 
a deep dish with crust, put in some butter, then the goose, 
and some butter over it ; cover with a nice paste, and bake. 

Game Pie. 

Draw and clean a brace of woodcocks and a brace of par- 
tridges — keep the livers of the latter ; truss both, break their 
bones with a rolling-pin ; lard them with strips of fat pork, 
season with pepper, salt, herbs and spices ; slit them along 
the back. 

Take the livers, some scraped bacon, mushrooms, truffles 
and parsley, pound well together, season with pepper, salt, 
herbs and spice ; stuff the birds with this ; season them. 

Make a paste and line your dish ; put in the game, with 
mushrooms and truffles, cover with strips of bacon ; cover 
the pie with nice paste, and bake. Any game can be used. 

Babbit Pie. 

Draw, joint, and clean well; wash in salted water, cut 
off the head and legs, lard with strips of fat pork, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, spice and parsley ; put a good 
crust in your dish, put in the bottom some scraped bacon ; 
season with pepper and salt ; put in the pieces of rabbit, 
cover with strips of bacon, put a rich paste over, rub some 
beaten egg over, and bake. 



116 hand-book fob thb kitchen. 

Eel Pis. 

Strip the eels and cut them in pieces ; make a farce oi 
some eelsy a few mushrooms, parsley, butter, pepper, salt, 
spice and herbs. Line your dish with paste, lay the farce 
in, then put in the eels ; season with salt, pepper and spice ; 
add a bunch of herbs, cover with butter, cover with paste, 
rub with beaten eggs, and bake. 

Lobster or Crab Pis. 

Cut a boiled lobster in pieces; pound in a mortar the 
fcmall claws and spawn ; add some gravy with some crusts 
of bread; let it boil, then strain through a sieve; add one- 
half of the lobster, a piece of butter, pepper and salt, a little 
lemon-juice ; put it over the fire, to melt the butter ; let it 
cool; line your dish with paste, put in the lobster, cover 
with rich paste. Bake three-quarters of an hour before you 
wish to use it ; when baked, make a hole in the coyer, draw 
up the rest of the lobster, with a little butter, and pour it 
in the pie ; add a little lemon -juice. 

Salmon Pie. 

Cut the salmon in pieces ; make a seasoning of a spoonful 
of salt, one-half spoonful pepper, one-quarter nutmeg, grated ; 
season the salmon on both sides with it ; mix with a little of 
the seasoning one-quarter pound of butter, a little thyme and 
parsley minced ; put one-half of it in the bottom of your 
pie, put in the salmon and the rest of the seasoning, two 
spoonfuls of water or wine ; cover with paste, make a small 
opening in the top, and bake. 

Chowder, Codfish or Pauoie. 

Fry some slices of fat pork in a deep stew-pan ; mix 8om« 
sliced onions with sweet herbs, and lay them upon the pork ; 
bone and cut some fresh cod in thick slices, and place them 



MADE DI8HSS. 11? 

on the porky then put another layer of pork, then hard bis- 
cuit or crackers, then pork, fish, and crackers, alternately, 
with the onions and herbs scattered through them until the 
pan is nearly full ; season with salt and pepper, add about 
two quarts of water, cover the stew-pan close, and let it cook 
four hours ; skim it and serve. Other fresh fish will do. 

Oyster Chowder. 

Butter a rather deep dish ; cover the bottom with broken 
biscuit that have been soaked in milk; strew over some 
pieces of butter, then two layers of oysters ; sprinkle with 
pepper, a small quantity of salt, and some parsley, finely 
chopped ; then another layer of soaked biscuit, and butter 
as before ; some oysters and seasoning as before ; and the 
liquor of the oysters after it has been strained, some milk or 
water, then another layei^'jof soaked biscuit and butter. 
Bake forty minutes and serve. 

Clam Chowder. 

Chop up some fat pork, and put it in the bottom of a 
stew-pan ; cover it thickly with rolled cracker ; have the 
clams chopped fine, and put a layer on the cracker, and a 
little chopped parsley, some lumps of butter, a little pepper, 
then another layer of cracker, then clams, butter and par- 
sley, and more cracker, a little of the juice and some milk. 
Bake slowly. 

Gumbo. 

Put on the bottom of your stew-pan some minced fi»i 
l>ork and rolled cracker; add some chopped onion^ some 
chopped celery, two small red peppers, two dozen, very 
small clams, one -half dozen good-sized tomatoes, peeled and 
chopped, the meat of a lobster, or one-half a dozen crabs, 
chopped, some chopped parsley, one-half a dozen ochra ; add 
one-quarter pound of butter, one-half dozen crackers rolled, 



118 HAND-BOOK FOE THE KITCHEN. 

let it simmer over the fire until it becomes a jelly , do not 
let it brown or bake ; serve hot. 

Pepper Pot. 

Put into a stew-pan three quarts of water. Add the 
remnants of any cold roast meat, fowl, fish, bacon, and 
pork. Stew gently with celery, turnips, carrots, and lettuce, 
cut small. Stew until tender. Skim when it boils. Boil 
one-half peck of spinach, and rub it through a colander. 
Take the bones from the soup and add the spinach, with the 
meat of a lobster or crabs minced fine. Season with plenty 
of cayenne pepper and salt. 

Made Dish for Breakfast or Lunch. 

Take six sheep's tongues ; let them lie in cold water for 
two hours uDtil all the blood has left them ; then put them 
one by one into boiling water, so you can remove the hard 
skin ; then put them in lukewarm water and stew them 
gently three hours, adding three small carrots, cloves, two 
small onions, some pepper and salt. Cut them lengthwise, 
and serve with the following sauce : 

Have a very clean saucepan ; put into it a wineglassful 
of viaegar, some thyme, garlic, shallots, and some pepper. 
Put it on the fire, reduce it to one-half the quantity, add 
some good gravy or soup, strain through a sieve ; thicken 
the sauce with a little batter rubbed with flour ; add also 
some minced herbs. This sauce is good for cutlets or meat 
warmed over. 

Head Cheese. 

Clean and scrape the heads ; boil them, until the flesh 
loosens from the bones, in water and salt ; then take out thfi 
meat, season with salt and pepper, one ounce of pepper U^ 
four ounces of salt; stir thoroughly, tie it in a thin cloth. 



MADE DISHES. 119 

and hang it to drain ; when perfectly cold and dry, take it 

from the cloth. 

Sausages. 

Mince very fine equal quantities of fat and lean pork, 
some Rhallots. Season with pepper, salt, a few sweet herbs 
and spices, some grated bread-crumbs. Take some hog guts, 
clean them well, and turn them inside out ; put the meat 
into the guts, through a funnel, forcing it through with 
your finger ; while filling, prick the guts with a pin from 
time to time ; when done, smooth them with your hand, tie 
them the length you wish, and broil them over a slow fire. 

Sausage-meat. 

Mince fine equal quantities of fat and lean pork. Season 

with One ounce of pepper to four ounces of salt. Mix well. 

If you do not wish to use it immediately, make bags about a 

foot long and three inches wide ; pack the meat well, and 

tie the top ; hang them in the smoke to dry. When you 

use, cut slices. 

Hashed Turkey. 

Chop fine cold boiled turkey ; put it into a stew-pan with 
a little water ; add a little butter and flour rubbed together ; 
stew for a few minutes. Serve on buttered toast, for 
breakfast or lunch. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Grate one-half pound of good cheese. Add one ounce of 
butter, a little milk ; stir it over the fire until the cheese is 
melted ; add one spoonful of mustard and some Worcester- 
shire sauce. Turn it on a hot plate, or on fresh or toasted 

bread. 

Rarebit. 

Four ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of fresh butter, 
two ounces of fresh bread-crumbs, gill of milk, teaspoonful 
of mustard, a little salt and l;ayenne pepper ; melt and mix 



120 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHEN. 

all over the fire ; add the beaten yolks of two eggs ; stir in 
add- three wliites of egg beaten to a froth. ' Serve on pastrj 
or toast. For supper or lunch. 

Game Pudding. 

Make a batter of flour, milk, eggs, pepper and salt ; pour 
a little into a pudding-dish. Put in some seasoned game 
and a little minced onion ; pour the remainder of the batter 
over and bake slowly. 

Blood Pudding. 

Boil one pint of whole oatmeal in a pint of milk ; let it 
stand over night, then mince fine three-quarters of a pound 
of beef-suet. Add it to the meal with pepper and salt. 
Wash and mince a little parsley and thyme. Add them to 
the meal with a pint and a half of hog's or sheep's blood, 
and half a pint of milk ; mix well, put into casings and tie 
as sausages. Boil slowly about ten minutes ; turn while 
boiling. Place them upon a colander to cool, turning them. 
Fry in butter. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

Boil a pint of peas in a quart of water ; when tender, rub 
them through a sieve. Cut into chops three pounds of the 
lean end of loin of mutton. Put it in a stew-pan with a 
gallon of water, four carrots, four turnips, cut small, pepper 
and salt. Boil until tender, then add the peas, with a head 
of celery and a sliced onion. Boil fifteen minutes. 

Welsh Barebit. 

Put about four or five ounces of cheese, cut small, in a 
saucepan, with a teaspoonful of mustard (mixed), a little 
pepper and salt, and a wineglassful of ale ; set it upon the 



MAIJB DISHES. 121 

fire. Stir until the cheese is melted, then pour it over some 
slices of toast. Serve immediately. 

Ibish Eabebit. 

Chop or grate about four ounces of cheese ; make a paste, 
adding a small lump of butter, one gherkin, some mustard, 
salt and pepper ; spread it over slices of toast, and place 
them in the oven for five minutes. 

Croquettes of Chicken with Sausage. 

Draw and prepare the chicken as for roasting. Stuff it 
with equal parts of bread-crumbs and sausage-meat. Cook 
it in a steamer. Cut the flesh from the bones and mince it 
with the dressing ; add more bread-crumbs, moisten with 
the gravy ; form into balls ; roll in flour, dip in beaten egg, 
roll in cracker-crumbs and fry in hot lard ; pile them on a 
dish and garnish with fresh parsley. 

Or mince cold chicken with equal quantity of highly sea- 
soned sausage-meat, some minced onion and parsley, some 
nutmeg, pepper, and the juice of a lemon ; mix with beaten 
egg and crumbs ; form in balls, roll in flour, dip in beaten 
egg, roll in cracker-crumb and fry. 

Chicken Croquettes with Oysters. 

Mince the chicken with equal quantity of oysters. Add 
liread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and gravy suf- 
ficient to moisten ; form in shape ; roll in flour ; dip in 
egg and roll in cracker and fry in hot lard. 

Chicken Fritters. 

Wash one pound of rice in several waters ; lot it drain ; 

pound it in a mortar and sift it ; put it in a saucepan with 

a little milk and stew it gently, moving often. Mince the 

breasts and white meat of chicken ; add it to the rice ; a littl i 

6 



122 UAND-BOOK FOB TH£ KITCHEN. 

Bugai' and candied lemon-peeL Stir it over the fire until 
it becomes a thick paste. Flour a tin thickly ; pour the 
mixture on it ; sprinkle flour over and roll it with the roll- 
ing-pin ; when cold, cut it in regular small pieces, flour your 
hands, roll up the fritters, fry them in hot lard, sprinkl« 
orange-flower water and sugar over. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC, 

Obskrtatioss. 

Wild fowls ahould be roasted over a clear quick fire, of a 
light brown. 

Tame fowls must be basted frequently ; they require more 
time than wild fowls. 

Geese should be roasted quickly ; turned frequently. 

To boil poultry : put them in boiling water over the fire 
with a little sah ; boil gently until quite tender. A turkey 
weighing fourteen pounds will require two hours, a goose 
the same. In boiling chickens or pigeons, although they 
will require leHS time, they vary accordiug to i^e as well u 
ELze : from twenty minutes to one hour. 



124 HAND-BOOK FOS THB KITCHEN. 

Geese or ducks when tough should be parboiled before 
roasting ; they require from one to two hours. Serve jelly 
or apple sauce with duck and goose, and cranberry sauce 
with turkey. 

STUFFING FOR FOWLS, ETC. 

Stufpiko No. 1. 

One-half pound minced beef-suet with half a pound of 
bread-crumbs and a spoonful of minced parsley, marjoram, 
a little grated nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, salt and pepper, 
beaten yolk of egg, and for duck minced onions. 

Stuffing No. 2. 

Soak bread with boiling water or milk, add salt, pepper, 
butter and lard. Thyme. 

Stuffing fob Boiled Tubkby. 

Bread-crumbs mixed with fat pork, sage or thyme, pepper, 
salt and yolk of beaten egg. Or cracker-crumbs or bread- 
crumbs, salt and pepper, beaten egg, and oysters or sausage. 

Onion Stuffing fob Tubket. 

Mince the onions and pound them in a mortar. Scrape 
the same quantity of bacon, and same of bread-crumbs. Mix 
and season with pepper. 

Fob Goose. 

Parboil the onions, mince them, and mix half as much 
sage and double the qtiantity of bread-crumbs. Stir 
through beaten yolk of egg. 

Plain Stuffing fob Tubket. 
To one pound of bread-crumbs add one-quarter pound of 



J 



FOULTSY, GAME, ETC. 126 

butter, pepper and salt. A little thyme or savory accord- 
ing to taste ; bind with beaten yolk of egg. 

Sausage Stuffing fob Tubkey. 

Mix equal quantity of bread-crumbs and well-seasoned 
sausage ; bind with beaten yolk of egg. 

Stuffing fob Boast Goose. 

One cupful of fine bread-crumbs, four onions minced, one 
ounce green sage, one cupful of mashed potatoes, pepper and 
salt ; bind with beaten yolks of eggs. 

Potato Stuffing fob Duck. 

Choose white, mealy potatoes ; boil and mash ; season 
with salt, black and red pepper and butter. For wild duck 
always add minced onion and sage. 

Stuffing fob Pbaibie Fowl, Game. 

Bread-crumbs, butter and lard, minced parsley and celery, 
black and a little red pepper, ground cloves and a little 
minced onion ; mince all and moisten with vinegar. 

Baste these fowls often while roasting. Plain stuffing 
can be used, simply, as these are the most delicate and 
dainty of fowl. Generally very tender. 

GmcKEN Boasted. 

To prepare the chicken for roasting, cut a slit in the side 
of the neck and draw out the crop and windpipe ; cut a slit 
between the hip-bone and the body, and draw out the en- 
trails ; carefully separate the gall from the liver ; cut open 
the gizzard, and take out the bag ; rinse the fowl. 

To make stuffing: dry the bread and crumb it; season 
with pepper, salt, lard, and butter ; or, soak the bread in 
hot water or milk, and season with salt, pepper, lard, and 



126 HAND-BOOK FOK THB KITCHEN. 

butter ; you can add thyme or summer savory ; or, mix 
sausage-meat with the dried crumbs. Fill the body of the 
fowl and the space from which you took the crop ; close up 
with needle and £ne thread. 

Baste frequently while roasting, first with lard, after with 
butter. If the chicken is old and tough, parboil before 
roasting ; use as little water as possible, and add the water 
to the browned gravy. 

To Carvb Roast Chicken. 

Place the carving-fork across the breast-bone; separate 
the second joint by putting the point of the knife on the 
joint, and working it from side to side, and then cutting 
through. Cut off the leg; cut off the wings; separate the 
pinion ; cut the white meat from the breast in thin slices. 

Chicken with Champagne. 
Take off the skins ; cut off the shanks and the pinions 
from the wings. Cut off the legs, take out the bones; put 
the flesh in water, take off the wings and breast ; cut up 
the carcass as for carving; put all in water and blanch 
them over a moderate fire ; put them in cold water ; drain 
them ; put some bacon with butter in a saucepan, an onion 
stuck with three cloves, mushrooms, sliced truffles, pepper 
and salt. Add a little broth ; stew gently ; when tender, 
stir in the beaten yolks of three or four eggs with some veal 
gravy and some minced parsley ; when stewed sufficiently 
and well thickened, add the champagne. 

Chickens Broiled. 
Cut them down the back and take out the entrails care- 
fully ; pound the bones until the chicken is quite flat ; 
fasten the wings and legs to the sides ; broil of an even yel 
low brown. Season with salt and pepper and butter. Gar- 
nish with fresh parsley. 



poultry, game, etc. 127 

Chickens Boiled. 

Draw them carefully ; take out the crop ind windpipe, 
wash them in salt and water ; pour boiling water over to 
blanch them ; make a dressing of dried bread-crumbs, salt, 
jjejiper and butter, with beaten yolk of egg to bind it together. 
You can mix in herbs, spices, or sausage-meat as you like, 
or boil the chickens without stuffing, and serve with a rich 
white sauce. You can make the sauce with the liquor in 
which the chicken is boiled, adding butter and cream; 
Bechamel sauce. 

Chicken Fricassee. 
Draw the chickens ; cut off the second joints, separate the 

• 

legs ; cut off the wings, separate the pinions ; cut the breasts 
each in four pieces ; cut up the body in pieces of nearly equal 
size. Boil gently in a small quantity of water and salt. 
When partly done, add two largo spoonfuls of lard ; when 
quite tender, mix four ounces of butter with half the quantity 
of flour, and stir it into the boiling fricassee ; season to taste ; 
simmer until smooth ; dish it, surrounded with rice boiled 
in milk, in the following manner : Wash the rice thoroughly ; 
put it in a saucepan, with water sufficient to cover it. Sim- 
mer ; as it swells add milk, boiling gently without stirring ; 
salt to taste. When tender and quite dry, take it up with 
a large spoon, and place it around the edge of the dish, and 
pour the chicken in the middle. 

Another Way, 

Prepare the chickens as above, and boil it with small 
pieces of corned pork ; when nearly done drop in wheat 
dumplings, made with prepared flour and water; boD 
gently. When the chicken is tender, add butter and flour 
well mixed, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour ; sim- 
mer ; dish the chickens in the middle of the dish with- the 



128 



HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHEN. 



dumplicgs around. Serve with pickles. Grated nutmei 
and parsley can be added according to taste. 



Chickeks with Aspa&agus. 

Draw them carefully and take out the crop ; waah them ; 
pour boiling water over to blanch them ; boil them ; keep 
them hot. Put some of the broth from the chickens in a 
saucepan over the fire, stir in two spoonfuls of butter, 
beaten with one spoonful of flour ; parboil the asparagus ; 
out it in small pieces and stew it in the gravy until tender ; 
place the chickens on toast in a dish and pour the asparagus 
sauce over. 

Chickens au Bouillon Blanc. 

Mince the white meat of a cooked chicken, add a little 
&t boiled bacon and marrow, with bread-crumbs soaked in 
boiling milk, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg minced, and one 
well-l)eaten raw one; season with salt and pepper and 
grated nutmeg. Mince all together and add the juice of a 
lemon ; fill in the chicken and roast ; baste with a little 
butter. 

Chicken Subpbise. 

Boast a pair of chickens without stuffing; baste with 
butter. Take the meat from the bones and cut it in thin 
slices one inch long. Stew in a little milk with one ounce 
of butter, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt ; thicken in a lit- 
tle flour ; boil, cool. Cut six slices of bacon and put them 
in a pan ; put forcemeat on each slice of bacon and work 
them up into the form of a roU, leaving an opening in the 
top; bind the forcemeat with beaten raw egg; put the 
forcemeat in the opening, close with your hand and beaten 
egg ; sprinkle fine bread-crumbs over ; bake three-quarten 
of an hour. Sauce for Chicken Surprise (see Sauces). 



FOULTST, GAME, ETO. 129 

CuBBiED Chicken. 

Gut up the chicken and take out the large bones ; flour 
and frj lightly in butter ; fry slices of onion ; put one pint 
of veal gravy into a saucepan with a large spoonful of 
curiy powder, one teaspoonful of sugar and the onion, and 
juice of a lemon, together, and stew gently until well united ; 
surround a large dish with snowballs made of rice boiled 
in milk, and pour the chicken in the centre. 

Chicken with Tomatoes. 

Prepare the chicken for fricassee ; parboil them ; add salt, 
some butter and lard, one onion, scraped and fried ; boil in 
one quart of veal gravy and thicken with flour ; when done, 
stir in tomatoes, one quart that have been stewed. 

Chicken Fricassee with Sweetbreads. 
Prepare and joint them for fricassee; put them in cold 
water to blanch them ; put some fat bacon in a saucepan 
with melted butter, one onion stuck with four cloves, some 
veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, and truffles; add sufficient 
broth to cover them ; mix in one spoonful of flour ; boil 
gently; add minced parsley ', beat the yolks of three eggs in 
milk ; add them, let them thicken the gravy. Serve with 
rice. 

To Steam a Chicken with Sausage Stupfing. 
Draw and prepare the chicken as for roasting; mix 
equal parts of bread-crumbs and well-seasoned sausage-meat, 
stuff the fowl and close it ; place it in a deep tin vessel with 
a tight-fltting cover, and suspend it in a kettle of boiling 
water over the fire ; when tender, pour off the liquor and 
add to it a little minced parsley; season with salt and 
pepper to taste; beat a large spoonful of butter with same 
of flour ; simmer until thickened ; place the chicken in a 
dish and pour the gravy over. 
6* 



130 hand-book fob the kitohbn. 

Chick£N with Ham. 

Draw aud wash them ; take out the crop and windpipe ; 
truss them. Cut slices of fat ham, beat them, and season with 
fine shred parsley. Loosen the skin from the breasts and 
put in the slices of ham. Wrap them in strips of fat bacon 
and tie them with strong thread; roast them in a quick 
oven ; take off the bacon. 

Place the chickens on a dish and pour over a good veal 
gravy mixed with a little of the gravy from the pan. 

Cold Chicken Fried. 

Take the skin off, cut the meat from the bones ; cut in 
slices, flour them, and fry them in butter ; stew them in well- 
seasoned gravy ; squeeze over the juice of a lemon. 

Chicken with Ham. 

Draw and clean the chickens ; chop some good ham and 
mix with bread-crumbs and yolks of beaten eggs ; fill the 
chicken, wrap it with strips of fat bacon ; roast it ; add 
some rich veal broth and butter to the gravy. 

Chicken Cutlets. 

Draw and wash the chicken, bone it from all the joints 
but the wings ; flatten the flesh with a rolling-pin, and 
spread over the seasoning; salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, 
cayenne pepper, mace, and coat all with beaten eggs and 
bread-crumbs; fry them; place them in a dish; make a 
brown gravy and pour over ; sprinkle flour in your pan, 
stir while browning ; add a little boiling "rater ; strain over 
the chicken. 

Fabced Pollbts with Cbeam. 

Draw and wash them ; parboil them ; wrap them with 
strips of fat bacon and roast them ; cut the flesh from the 



FOaLTBY, GAME, BIO. 131 

breasts and take out the breast-bone; mince some good ham 
and bacon, which has been boiled, beef-suet, parsley, cives, 
and mushrooms ; season with salt and pepper, sweet herbs, 
cloves, and mace ; minoe all with the breasts of the pullets ; 
add bread-crumbs which have been soaked in boiling cream 
and the beaten yolks of eggs, put all in a mortar and pound 
it, and mix well ; put it in the breasts of the pullets ; shape 
it with a knife ; spread beaten eggs and strew fine crumbs 
over ; brown in a quick oven. 

Pullets with Oystebs. 

Draw and wash them, loosen the skin from the breasts ; 
mince some fat bacon, parsley, and mushrooms fine; season 
with salt and pepper, put it between the flesh and the skin, 
make holes in the skin with a knife and force the pinions 
in ; parboil them ; wrap strips of fat bacon, roast it ; take 
off the bacoD, make a ragotLt of oysters; put the oysters 
over the fire in their own liquor, heat them ; take them 
out and lay them on a dish ; simmer some mushrooms with 
melted bacon and veal gravy ; season with salt and pepper ; 
when done, take off the fat; add some veal and ham cullis ; 
put in the oysters and keep it hot ; when ready to serve, 
pour the ragout over. 

Pullets with Ham. 

Draw, wash, and roast them, basting with butter ; cut 
slices of ham, beat them flat, put them in a saucepan over 
the fire ; when they begin to stick, moisten with veal gravy 
without salt ; sinmier a few minutes, take off the fat, pour 
over the chickens in your dish, and serve hot with slices of 
ham. 

Pullets with Onions. 

Roast as directed ; boil some small white onions ; siimner 
them in essence of ham. Dish the pullets and pour the 
onions round. 



i 



182 hand-book fob the ktiohen. 

Giblets Stewed. 

Pour boiling water over and blanch them ; simmer then 
in strong broth ; cover closely, and stew until nearly done ; 
add some flour ; simmer dried bread in broth and serve the 
giblets on them. 

Another Method, 

Pour boiling water over them to blanch them ; boil them 
in broth with herbs, spices, pepper, and salt ; when tender, 
put them in a saucepan with some broth ; with some melted 
bacon ; add some broth thickened with beaten yolks of raw 
eggs. 

To Bone Turkey. 

First remove the back-bone by cutting it down the back ; 
then the breast-bone, hips, and legs ; keep the skin unbroken. 
Or, cut the top of the joint and run a sharp knife down and 
around to loosen the flesh, then puU it out. 

To Prepare Boned Turkey. 

Make a jelly with veal-bones or feet ; season with salt and 
pepper and wine ; strain and clear the jelly with eggs and 
pour it through a flannel jelly-bag over lemons and oranges — 
spices if you wish. When clear, put your turkey in an oval 
deep dish and pour the jelly over. You can stuff the turkey 
when you take out the bones, to retain the shape, with a 
dressing of minced roast veal and fresh pork, with equal 
quantity of dried bread-crumbs moistened with veal gravy. 
The turkey should be boiled in as little water as possible, 
to retain the flavor. You can moisten the stuffing with 
liquid from the boiled turkey. 

Turkey Boiled. 

Draw and clean the turkey (a plump young hen turkey ii 
always best) ; boil bread-crumbs in the liquor of the oysters ; 



POULTBY, GAME, BIXJ. 133 

season with salt and pepper and butter; mix in thickly 
oysters and fill the turkey; put it in boiling water over the 
fire ; use as little water as possible ; it is better to boil it in 
a steamer raised above the water ; when done, raise it and 
strain the gravy ; thicken as much as you require with but' 
ter and flour ; put in the oysters just before you serve ; pour 
sufficient over the turkey to moisten ; serve the remainder in 
a sauce-boat. 

Another Method. 

Draw and wash the turkey ; make a stuffing (see Stuffing 
for Turkey, etc.) ; fill the turkey and boil in a steamer ; if 
you have none, put it in a tin and cover it tightly, suspend 
it in a larger kettle of boiling water over the fire ; thicken 
the gravy with flour and butter ; simmer ; take oS the fat 
and add some rich cream or milk to the gravy, or celery 
sauce. 

TUBKEY KOASTED. 

Draw and wash ; take out the crop and windpipe ; make 
a stuffing according to taste — plain, sausage, cr^me, veal 
minced, etc. ; dredge ; put it in the oven and roast it, basting 
it until done. With plain stuffing, with the gravy use 
bread sauce; if veal stuffing, garnish with fried sausage 
forcemeat. The gizzard and liver can be dipped in beaten eggs 
and fried ; sprinkle with salt and pepper and put them under 
the pinions. Stewed chestnuts make a nice sauce. Serve 
with cranberry sauce or jelly and celery in a celery glass. 

Cold Turkey Deviled, Roasted. 

Boil and season the legs, etc., of roasted turkey ; sprinkle 
on red pepper ; baste with butter ; serve with sauce, gravy, 
mixed mustard and lemon-juice ; mix in a little flour and 
butter ; simmer. You can vary the sauce by adding a little 
curry powder or Worcestershire sauce. Serve hot for lunoh 
or supper. 



^ I 



134 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHEN. 

TUBKBT LKGSy ETC., BrOILBD. 

Pound the legs and parboil them; dip them in melted 
butter and broil them. 

Goose Roasted. 

Draw and wash it ; stuff it ; roast it in a quick oven ; use 
any stuffing (see Stuffings) ; serve with rich brown gravy and 
apple sauce. A sauce for roast goose : one dessertspoonful 
of mixed mustard^ a little cayenne pepper, salt ; mix weU 
together ; add one glass of port wine, two of gravy ; cut a 
hole in the goose and pour in the gravy ; this additional 
Oavoring is according to taste. 

Goose Stewed. 

Draw and wash ; cover with slices of bacon ; lay it in a 
saucepan ; cover with seasoning, sweet herbs, a little sliced 
carrot ; put in the goose and giblets ; cover witli bacon and 
moisten with stock sufficient to cover the goose ; cover with 
paper ; cover closely. Boil until tender. Serve with onion 
or apple sauce. 

Ducks Boasted. 

Draw and clean them; stuff them (see Stuffings for 
Ducks); roast them; baste frequently; they take half an 
hour to one hour, according to size and age. Serve with 
rich brown gravy and onion, or apple sauce. 

Wild duck or old ones should be parboiled before roasting. 

Ducks Boiled with Green Peas. 

Draw and clean and stuff the ducks ; half roast them ; 
put them in a saucepan with one onion shred, salt, pepper, 
mint and sage, winter savory, marjoram, and one pint of 
beef gravy ; boil gently for 'twenty minutes, skim and take 
off the fat, and take out the herbs. Add one quart of green 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. l35 

peas ; let the whole boil half an hour ; thicken with butter 
beaten with flour ; place the ducks on a dish surrounded b;f 
the peas ; add some wine and lemon-juice to the gravy, and 
strain a little on the dish and the remainder in a sauce- 
boat. 

Wild Ducks Boiled. 

Draw and clean them ; leave them in salt two days ; put 
them in a cloth to boil ; stuff them with bread-crumbs, sage, 
and onions ; boil one hour. Serve with a rich gravy poured 
over. 

Flour the cloth in which you boil them before putting in 
the ducks. 

Ducks Stewed. 

Tame docks cure joirUed cmd stewed tlie same as other fotol. 

Draw and clean them, cut them into joints, and stew 
them in one pint of good gravy (beef) ; when they boil, skim 
them ; season with cayenne pepper and salt to taste ; stew 
about three-quarters of an hour. Mix smoothly two tea- 
spoonfuls of ground rice in a glass of p9rt wine. Stir it in 
the gravy. Simmer ten minutes. 

Ducks with Orange-juice. 

Draw and clean them ; half roast them ; cut the joints, 
leaving them hanging together; in each incision sprinkle 
salt and pepper, and squeeze orange-juice; turn them and 
press them with a plate ; heat and turn and press again. 
Dish and serve with their own gi'avy. 

Ducks 1 la Braise. 

Draw, clean and lard them with strips of fat bacon ; 
dredge them with flour ; brown them in melted butter, and 
add some broth and nearly a pint of white wine. Season 
with salt, pepper, cloves, onions, slices of lemon, parsley, 



136 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHBaT. 

•ad swoefe herbs. Stew the ducks about half an hour, and 
serve with the gravy strained over. 

Wild Ducks. 

Draw and wash them; pour hot water through them. 
Roast over a brisk fire ; baste frequently with the follow- 
ing sauce (when you dress the ducks for roasting, draw a 
sharp knife four times down the breast) : Hot butter and 
juice of a lemon, cayenne pepper and a little sugar, and a 
glassful of port wine. Wild ducks will roast in fifteen min- 
utes. Put the duck in a dish, and pour all the sauce over 
it hot. 

GAME. 

Obsebvations and Explanations. 

When game is stale, wash thoroughly in vinegar and 
(Water. Birds that cannot be kept must be drawn and 
washed and hung to drain ; rub them with salt, and dip 
,'them in boiling water ; hang them in a cold place ; salt and 
^pepper mixed with a little ground cloves put inside. Sea- 
,son the dressing with herbs, spices, and vinegar, or wine. 

Wild duck will roast in fifteen minutes ; pigeons same ; 
pheasants half an hour ; goose three-quarters of an hour ; 
<quail ten minutes; woodcock twenty minutes; partridge 
^enty to twenty-five minutes. 

To prevent the fishy taste in wild fowl, put in pan onion, 
jsalt, and hot water; baste the fowl with this for the first 
ten minutes ; remove from the pan, and baste with butter. 

Pigeons with ITelly. 

Draw and clean the pigeons ; salt and roast. Put some 
lean bacon in a saucepan with sweet herbs, mace, and white 
pepper, lemon-peel, and calf-feet jelly; put in the pigeons, 
and boil gently fifteen minutes ; take them from the liquor, 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 13T 

take off the fat, and strain ; boil up some beaten whites of 
eggs in the jelly to clear it. Strain through a jelly-bag ovei 
the pigeons. 

Pigeons Fbicasseed. 

Draw, clean and quarter them ; put some melted bacon iu 
a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck 
with eight cloves, salt and pepper, and shred parsley ; put 
in the pigeons, and stew gently until tender; dredge in 
some flour, add some gravy ; stew gently, moving constantly. 
Take off the fat, and serve hot. 

Pabtbidoes Eoasted. 

Draw and clean them ; loosen the skin from the breasts ; 
mix some scraped bacon flne, sweet herbs, shred parsley, 
pepper and salt ; put them between the skin and the flesh ; 
fasten strips of fiett bacon round the birds ; roast them in a 
quick oven, take off the bacon, and make a sauce as fol- 
lows : boil a knuckle of veal in a small quantity of water 
until tender ; take it out, put in parsley minced, butter and 
wine ; thicken with browned flour, put the birds on toast 
and pour the sauce over. Garnish with slices of lemon. 

Pigeons Eoasted. 

Draw them ; make a dressing of bread-crumbs mixed with 
minced fat bacon or sausage-meat ; wrap them in strips of 
fat bacon, and put them in a pan covered tightly ; put a lit- 
tle water in the pan ; roast them over a brisk Are or in a 
quick oven. Six make a nice dish. When nearly done, take 
off the bacon and brown them, basting them with butter. 
Garnish with fresh parsley ; serve hot or cold. 

Another Method. 

Draw them, mince the gizzards and wrap them in fat 
baoon ; stuff them with the minced gizzard, bacon, parsley, 



L^ 



138 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

and a little green fennel and bread-crumbs. Before taking 
them from the oven, take off the bacon and baste them with 
butter ; let them become crisp and brown. 

Or make a stuffing of minced veal, bacon^ and bread- 
CTumbs; baste with butter while baking. About fifteen 
minutes is sufficient time. 

Pigeons Broiled. 

Tame Pigeons, — Draw, split them down the back, and 
flatten with a rolling-pin ; season with pepper and salt ; 
turn often ; baste with butter ; serve with fresh parsley. 

WUd Pigeons, — Draw and wash them, split them down the 
back, flatten with a rolling-pin ; baste with butter and a 
little wine ; put them on a hot dish, and pour melted butter 
and wine over ; sprinkle with pepper and salt while boiling. 

Pigeons Stewed. 

Draw and stuff them as follows: minced bacon, bread- 
crumbs, fine thyme, butter, pepper, a little cloves or nut- 
meg ; moistened with wine, or good vinegar ; put fat bacon 
in the pan with a little water ; put in the pigeons and stew ; 
when nearly done, baste with butter and brown them ; turn 
them and brown both sides. 

Partbidge Broiled. 

Draw them, wipe the outside and in ; split them down 
the back, and flatten them. Broil game, etc., on a clean, 
bright gridiron, heated over a clear fire ; turn and cook 
equally ; baste, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper while 
broiling, and on both sides after; serve with mushroom 
sauce or currant jelly. 

Partbidge Stewed. 
Draw and wipe them ; put some fat bacon in your pan, 
with a little butter ; put in the birds and strew some salt 



POULTRY, GAME^ BTO. 139 

and pepper over. Cover the breasts with fat I aeon ; when 
nearly done, take off tne oacon, and oasiie with butter ; ler 
them brown equally. 

Another way : surround the birds with minced boile»l 
cabbage ; stew gently one hour. Serve on toast. 

Cold Game — to Dress. 

Take the meat from the bones and mince it ; stew in 
gravy and essence of ham, or butfcer, or, if roasted, in its 
own gravy. 

Partridges are served with a sauce of olives, mushrooms^ 
and ham. (See Sauces.) 

Woodcock. 

Draw and wipe them with a clean cloth inside and out. 
Cut them down the back and flatten them ; broil carefully, 
turning each part evenly ; season ; serve on toast with 
melted butter poured over ; jelly. 

Or stuff and roast like pigeons. 

Snipe Boasted. 

Draw them, mix bread-crumbs with butter, black and red 
pepper, onion grated; stuff them, put them in a pan; 
baste with butter and claret wine. Dish them; thicken 
the gravy and pour it over. 

Skipe Broiled. 

Cut them down the back; draw them; flatten with a 
rolling-pin, and broil them over a brisk fire, on a bright grid- 
iron. Salt, pepper, and butter. Serve on toast. 

Guinea Fowl. 

Let them^ as well as other game, hang as long as possible 
without being tainted. When you draw it, wipe it out clean, 



14rO HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

and wash the outside. It is good to put a little ground clove 
and vinegar with the dressing. The Guinea fowl will take 
about half an hour to. roast ; baste while dressing; take out 
the fowl, and thicken the gravy with browned flour ; strain 
over. 

Praibie Fowl. 

Pick and draw them, fill in with plain stuffing, and baste 
with butter, or make a dressing of bread, black and red pep- 
per, ground cloves, pulverized thyme, butter and vinegar. 
Boast in a quick oven ; baste while roasting, three-quarterx 
of an hour. Make a gravy of the liquor in the pan ; strain. 

Quail and Other Fowl 
Are cooked as partridges or prairie fowl. 

Babbits Boasted. 

Let them hang in a cool place four or five days. Skin 
and draw them; sprinkle in pepper, salt, ground cloves, 
grated onion, and vinegar. Make a stuffing of breaa, 
cayenne pepper, ground allspice, a little nutmeg, port wine, 
and melted butter ; stuff and truss them ; roast them ; baste 
while roasting. Make a sauce by taking off the fat from 
the gravy ; add some claret wine, some butter and flour ; 
thicken in ; strain. 

Or use plain stuffing ; bread and butter, black and red 
pepper, minced parsley, a little thyme ; baste while roasting 
with butter and vinegar, or claret wine. 

Babbits Boiled. 

Draw, clean, and truss them; wrap them in strips of 
bacon ; boil them ; mince the livers with fat bacon ; add 
half a pint each of wine, vinegar, mace, minced parsley, 
and rich drawn butter. Dish the rabbits, and poor the 
sauce over. 






POULTRY, GAMIS, ETC. 141 

To EoAST jl Haunch op Venisok. 

Wash it in milk and water, and if the skin is musty, tc^ke it 
off; dry it with a cloth ; sprinkle salt and black and cayenne 
pepper over ; dredge with flour, and baste often with butter. 
Will take two or three hours if the haunch is large ; thick- 
en the gravy, and serve it in a sauce-boat with currant jelly 

To Boast a Leg of Venison that Has Been Kept. 

Draw out the bone, and pour vinegar, salt, and pepper 
through the opening. Make a dressing of fat pork minced 
with bread, thyme, ground cloves, grated onion, cayenne pep- 
per; press this, being well mixed, all through the leg 
where the bone was taken out. Sprinkle salt, pepper, and 
floiir over ; baste with butter and a little lemon-juice while 
roasting. 

Shoulder of Yenison Boasted. 

Lard it with fat bacon ; season with black and cayenne 
pepper, nutmeg, ground cloves; dredge flour over; pour 
over wine or vinegar. Let it stand two hours ; roast it, 
basting often ; take off the bacon and crisp it. Take the ex- 
tra fat from the gravy ; stir in some browned flour and a 
little wine or vinegar and lemon-juice. 

Yenison Steaks. 

Broil on a clean, bright gridiron, on one side ; put it on a 
hot dish with the uncooked side down. Season with salt 
and pepper, butter and currant jelly ; press it and turn it ; 
keep the dish hot; do not let the juice dry out. 

Yenison Stewed. 

Broil the venison on one side ; put pepper, salt, jelly, and 
wine in a deep venison-dish over a lamp or coals ; put the 



142 



HAND-BOOK FOB THB STTOHEN. 



uncooked side down. Sprinkle in a little flour, and let i^ 
simmer ; turn often ; serve hot. 

Yenison Steaks Fried. 
Boll them in flour ; fry in butter ; turn often ; serve hot 




To Carve 

Itoast Fowl. — Insert the knife between the legs and side, 
press back the leg with the knife ; if young, it will part 
easily. Kemove the wing from D to B. Bemove the neck- 
bones next. Remove the wishbone by inserting the knife 
under the bones, and raise it. Divide the breast from the 
body, by cutting through the small ribs, turn the back upper- 
most, put your knife into the centre, raise the lower part 
firmly ; it will easily separate ; take off the side bones. 







v>«,^Vi^« 



Goose. — Use a sharp knife ; cut off the legs and wings ; 
then cut slices from A to B. 



POULTBY, OAMB, ETC. 



Hi 




Habbit. — Insert the knife at 1, and cut down to 1 on 
both sides ; pass the knife under the shoulder 2, cut off the 
shoulder and leg ; cut slices down the back. 




Hofu/nch of Venison. — Out to the bone from 1 to 2, (hen 
ent thin slices from 3 to 4. 



8ATJCES FOR MEATS, FISH, ETC. 



Observations and Explanations. 

In making sauces great care should be taken to observe 
the exact directions. Sauces generally require stirring 
constantly while preparing. Butter sauces in which eggs 
are used should not boil after the eggs are added. Use 
porcelain-lined saucepans and' silver or wooden spoons. 

Browning fob Sauces. 

Put two ounces of brown sugar in a thick saucepan over 
the fire ; stir gently until it becomes a rich brown ; add two 
quarts of water ; stir until quite dissolved ; bottle for use. 

A Good Sauce for Boasts. 

Bone and mince some anchovies ; add broth of veal and 
ham ; season with pepper and salt to taste ; add a little 
vinegar or lemon-juice. Or simply add melted butter and 
lemon-juice to essence of anchovies. Serve hot. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Bone and mince twenty anchovies ; add two shallots, two 
spoonfuls of grated horseradish, four blades of mace, one 
quart of white wine, one pint of claret, half a pint of an- 
chovy liquor, twelve cloves, twelve whole peppers ; simmer 
until reduced to one quart, cool, and bottle for use. 



sauobs fob meats, fish, etc. 145 

Curry Sauce for Veal Cutlets, 

Mix equal quantities of curry powder, butter, and floui 
into a paste. When the cutlets are taken from the pan, 
stir the paste into the gravy — stir until it thickens to the 
consistency of rich cream — put the cutlets on a hot dish and 
pour the gravy over through a strainer. 

Celery Sauce. 

Cut the celery in pieces about one inch long, boil them in 
salt and water, strain them, and boil them in just sufficient 
stock to keep them liquid ; add some brown sauce ; season 
with red and black pepper and salt to taste. 

Cucumber Sauce for Wild Ducks. 

Six cucumbers ; pare and slice lengthwise ; take out the 
seeds ; season with salt and pepper and three onions, sliced ; 
cover with vinegar and let them stand three hours; dry 
them; put some melted bacon in a saucepan, put in the 
cucumbers; stew gently, stirring; add some good gravy; 
simmer fifteen minutes ; take oflT the fat ; add some veal and 
ham ragotlt ; pour over the ducks. 

Cold Sauce for Pigeons. 

Mince some parsley, onion, pickles ; add the juice of a 
lemon and spoonful of oil and same of mixed mustard, pep- 
per, and salt ; put the sauce in a dish and the pigeons on it. 

Egg Sauce. 
Make a lich, white sauce and mince the eggs ; mix in. 

Garlic Sauce. 

Mince the garlics; boil them in vinegar and veal-stock 
with a piece of lean ham ; boil gently until quite rich ; strain 
and add some brown sauce or browned flour. 

7 



146 hand-book fob thb kitohen. 

Gbeen Sauce fob Lamb. 

Pound bread-crumbs with green wheat, spinach leares, 
BOrrel, or other vegetables with not too much flavor ; season 
with salt, popper, vinegar, and gravj ; stew gently ; strain. 

Gbeek Saucb fob Eels. 

Pound some sorrel and squeeze out the juice ; mince an 
onion, some capers ; put them in a saucepan with the sorrel- 
juice and butter ; stew ; season with salt and pepper, some 
vinegar and orange-juice. 

Cold Hobsebadish Sauoe. 

A spoonful of horseradish, minced parsley, shallot, garlic, 
and capers, a spoonful of table oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 

Hot Hobsebadish Sauce. 

Slice two onions ; put them with some oil in a saucepan 
over the fire to brown ; when they begin to color put them 
in a clean saucepan with a glass of white wine, a glass of 
broth, lemon-peel, garlic, thyme, and two cloves ; boil gently 
fifteen minutes ; strain ; put in the horseradish, one spoon- 
ful, salt and pepper ; simmer. 

CucuMBEB Catsup. 

Pare and mince six cucumbers and same of onions ; half a 
pint of salt sprinkled over them ; put them in a sieve to 
drain twelve hours. Mix a teacupful of mustard-seed, half a 
teacupful of whole pepper ; put them in a jar and cover 
with good vinegar ; cover closely three days. 

Obanbebry Sauce. 

Wash them and stew them in sufficient water to covor 
them. Stir in one pound of sugar to each quart of cran 
berries ; stew gently until they burst ; mash them ; put 



8A1JCSS FOR MEATS, FISH^ ETO. 147 

them in a mould in a cool place ; when requii'ed for nse, 
turn them out. 

Dutch Sauce. 

Mix half a teacupful of grated horse-radish, sprig of 

thyme, small onion, two shallots ; cover with vinegar, put it 

in a saucepan ; simmer. Mix the yolks of three raw eggs 

with three ounces of butter ; beat thoroughly. When the 

roots are tender, stir in the butter and eggs ; do not let it 

boil after adding the eggs. Stir while simmering ; press all 

through a sieve. 

Drawn Butter. 

Beat two ounces of fresh butter in a quarter of a teacup of 
wheat flour ; mix thoroughly. Stir in it one quart of boiling 
milk or water ; if water, add cream. This should be about 
as thick as rich cream ; add a little salt. You can make 
almost any sauce with this by adding parsley, capers, hard- 
boiled eggs chopped, etc. 

Chili Sauce. 

Skin a quart of ripe tomatoes ; one green pepper minced 
in a pint of vinegar ; add the tomatoes, one tablespoonful 
of ginger, half a teaspoonful of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg ; 
boil gently until thickened. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Beat the yolk of one raw egg quite light ; beat in a salt- 
spoonful of dry mustard ; add oil while beating, until it be- 
comes a thick jelly; add vinegar, saltspoonful of salt, 
cayenne pepper, and lemon-juice; add the vinegar in small 
quantities while beating in the other seasoning. 

Mayonnaise Sauce without Mustard. 

Three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, saltspoonful of salt} 
one of pepper, teaspoonful of grated onion, one tablespoon- 



148 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KtTOHEN. 

ful of vinegar, juice of half a lemon (vinegar in which a litr 
tie tarragon has been soaked is used). 

Saucb Tabtabe. 

To Mayonnaise sauce add grated* onion, minced pickles, 
parsley minced ; mix in thoroughly. To use with fish, oys« 
ter, cold meats, etc. 

Bechamel Sauce. 

Make a veal broth by boiling a small knuckle in two 
quarts of water ; season with sauce. When quite tender, 
take out the meat, skim off the fat. Beat in a tablespoonful 
of fiour, a teaspoonful of butter; stir it in the broth. Put 
in some thyme and parsley or not, to taste. Add half a 
pint of cream, and a grated nutmeg. 

Another Method. 

Boil a knuckle of veal in three quarts of water until ver^ 
tender, adding boiling water if required. Take out the 
meat, skim off the fat, put in a small onion, three slices of 
turnip, a little carrot, parsley and bay-leaf, thyme, some whole 
pepper, a very little sugar and mace ; boil gently until the 
sauce is rich ; strain. 

Mix a teaspoonful of butter with a tablespoonful of flour, 
and put it in the hot broth ; boil, stirring until the flour is 
cooked ; add half a pint of cream. 

Bhown Sauce fob Made Dishes. 

Put four ounces of sugar in a saucepan over the fire ; 
stir until it becomes a rich brown. Add three gills of red 
wine, juice of a lemon, half a dozen cloves, mace, two shal* 
lots ; simmer for ten minutes. Season with salt and pepper 
to taste. Bottle for use. 



SAUCES FOB MEATS, FISH, ETC. 149 

ToHATO Sauce. 

Skin one dozen ripe tomatoes, quarter them ; slice four 
onions , put all in a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of 
butter. Add thyme, parsley, one clove; boil gently until 
the tomatoes are completely cooked ; strain. 

Wine Sauce for Roast Mutton. 

"When the roast is removed from the pan, pour off the 
fat ; brown half a spoonful of flour in the gravy in the pan ; 
add some boiling water. Simmer until smooth, and about 
as thick as cream ; season with salt and pepper to taste ; 
strain; add half a gill of port wine. 

Sauce Hollandaise, for Fish. 

Four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, saltspoonful of salt, one 
dozen whole peppers ; simmer, cool ; add the beaten yolks 
of four raw eggs, quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little 
grated nutmeg ; set it over the Are and beat it rapidly while 
cooking ; should become thick as cream ; set the saucepan 
in boiling water over the fire, beat the sauce to a froth, 
adding butter while beating ; you can use part lemon-juice 
instead of vinegar if you choose. 

Juice of Onions. 

Put some scraped fat bacon or butter in a saucepan ; put 
in one dozen onions sliced ; let them brown ; dredge in a 
Bpoonful of flour ; stir ; add half a pint of broth ; simmer. 

Juice of Mushrooms. 

Put somo scraped fat bacon or butter in a saucepan ; 
add half a dozen mushrooms skinned and quartered ; fry 
ftlowly until dry ; turn the mushrooms over ; pour in one 
pint of broth. Serve with lemon-juice. 



150 UAin)-BOOK FOS THE KITOHEN. 

LoBSTEB Sauce. 

Take all the meat from a boiled lobster ; pound it to • 
paste ; add beef or veal broth ; to a lobster weighing fivo or 
six pounds, iise one quart ; for ordinary size, one pint ; mix 
a spoonful of flour with spoonful of fresh butter and stir it 
in the hot broth ; put in the lobster ; season with pepper 
and salt to taste ; simmer ; jou can add lemon-juice or vine- 
gar and minced hard-boiled eggs. 

Lemok Sauce. 

Heat one quart of milk ; put in three peppercorns, a little 
thyme and the skin of a lemon ; simmer until the flavor is 
exhausted from the lemon skin ; strain ; mix a spoonful of 
butter with a little less flour ; stir into the sauce, simmer 
until thickened ; add the juice of the lemon. 

LiVEB Sauce. 

Boil livers of fowls ten minutes ; pound them ; soften with 
a little chicken broth ; mix well ; rub them through a sieve ; 
add some minced parsley and one gill of melted butter. 

Bbead Sauce for Lamb. 

Mince some fine bread-crumbs with equal quantity of 
fresh butter; add shred parsley and minced shallots; put 
them in white stock and boil gently ; press through a sieve ; 
add as much wine as stock. 

Mint Sauce for Lamb. 

Mince the mint fine ; mix one-third water to two-thirdf 
good vinegar; add a little sugar; sufiicient to cover the 
mint ; mix and serve. 



sauobs fob meats, fish, etc. 151 

Mustard Sauce. 

One pint of boiling stock ; add minced shallots ; simmer ; 
season with pepper and salt to taste ; stir in a spoonful of 
mustard ; strain. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Wash and skin them; to half a peck add two large 
spoonfuls of salt ; let them stand twelve hours ; put them in 
a kettle and boil until tender ; strain off the liquor, and to 
each gallon of liquor add one ounce of cloves, pepper, and 
ginger; boil gently until the liquor is reduced one-half; 
chop the mushrooms and add them to the liquor ; when cool, 
bottle. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

Wash and skin the mushrooms ; mince and stew them 
with a blade of mace and salt in a little water ; when ten- 
der, add rich cream or condensed milk ; thicken with beaten 
yolks of eggs ; stir until smooth ; take out the mace and 
add the juice of a lemon. 

Oyster Sauce for Fish. 

Scald the oysters in their own liquors ; strain ; put the 
liquor over the fire add half a lemon, two blades of mace ; 
mix one tablespoonful of flour with half a pound of fresh 
butter, stir into the liquor ; boil gently until smooth ; put 
the oysters in, boil up once. 

Oyster Catsup. 

To each solid quart of oysters, add half an ounce of salt, 
a little 9iace and black pepper ; pound them together and 
add a quart of wine for each quart of oysters ; boil gently 
ten minutes ; rub them through a colander ; skim ; bottle. 



152 ilAKD-BOOK rOK THE KITCHEN. 

Oybtkb Sauce. 

Take the oysters from their liquor and put them in cold 
water; put the liquor over the fire with some lemon-peel 
and mace ; boil gently to exhaust the flavor from the lemon ; 
strain ; add as much cream as liquor ; beat a tablespoonful 
of butter with a teaspoonful of fiour and stir in the sauce ; 
simmer until smooth ; add the oysters and juice of a lemon ; 
boil up once. 

Onion Sauce. 

Boil four onions in rich broth ; season with salt and pep- 
per. When tender, serve hot. 

Another Method, 

Skin one quart of white onions ; boil in salt and water. 
When tender, strain off the water ; mince them or not ; stir 
some butter and flour in sufficient boiling milk to cover 
them ; simmer until smooth, and pour over the onions in a 
vegetable-dish ; or, if minced, add some cream and a little 
butter, and serve in sauce-boat. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Pick, wash, mince and pound the parsley ; put it with 
some broth in a saucepan over the fire ; simmer about fif- 
teen minutes ; strain ; add some lemon-juice, teaspoonful of 
flour beaten with spoonful of butter ; stir in, and simmei 
until the flour is cooked. 

Kick White Sauce. 

Boil one pint of milk, and thicken it with four ounces of 
butter .beaten with one spoonful of flour ; stir into the boil- 
ing milk ; simmer until thickened and the flour thoroughly 
cooked ; add half a pint of cream or veal broth. Condensed 
milk can be used instead of cream. 



J 



bauoes fob meats, fish, etc. 153 

Sauce fob Goose. 

Put a gill of good broth into a saucepan with a table- 
spoonful of mixed mustard, half a teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, and a glassful of port wine ; warm. 

Sauce fob Chicken Subpbise. 

Warm some good broth with some butter, juice of a lemon, 
and Med parsley minced, and some orange-juice. 

Sauce fob Ducks. 

Warm some veal broth with pepper, salt, and orange- 
juice. 

Sauce fob Roast Babbit. 

BoH the livers in good broth and mince them; add 
thyme, savory, and parsley minced, yolk of egg well beaten, 
hard-boiled eggs minced ; stir all together in the broth, and 
thicken with spoonful of fresh butter, beaten with half as 
much flour ; boil gently until the flour is cooked ; add juice 
of a lemon, grated nutmeg, and sugar. 

Sauce fob Boiled Rabbit. 

Boil and mince the livers ; chop two hard-boiled eggs ; a 
large spoonful of bread-crumbs ; put them in half a pint of 
broth ; add thyme and savory minced, some lemon-juice, salt 
and pepper, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; simmer ; 
add a gill of white wine. 

Sauce fob Roast Venison. 
Large glassful of white wine (or port), three cloves, a very 
little cinnamon and sugar, lemon-juice, and a little vinegar ; 
heat; strain. 

Sauce fob Beef 1 la Bbaise. 
Pare and split some cucumbers ; take out the seeds ; put 
them on a dish with sliced onions, salt and pepper, cover 



154 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

them with vinegar; let them stand two hours; squeeze 
them through the colander, excluding the liquor ; put some 
melted bacon over the fire in a saucepan ; when hot, put ix 
the cucumbers and brown them ; add some gray; ; skim off 
the fat ; thicken with flour rolled with butter. 

Sauce fob Fbesh Hebbino. 

Warm some vinegar with salt and pepper and mustard ; 
add flour and butter ; stir while mixing ; pour over the fish. 

ToicATO Catsup. 

Skin half a pint of tomatoes, three large onions sliced, 
one head of celery, half a dozen shallots, half an ounce of 
cayenne pepper, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper; 
mince all together ; boil gently until the tomatoes are well 
cooked ; squeeze them through a colander ; boil until thick- 
ened ; put them in glass jars, set the jars in boiling water, 
and when hot, seal them. 



VEGETABLES. 



Potato Croquettes. 

Select white mealy potatoes ; pare and wash them; put 
them in boiling water with a little salt ; put them over the 
fire ; when they are tender, pour oS the water and let them 
dry. Mash them, and season with salt, butter, and white 
pepper; soften with milk and beaten yolk of egg; form 
them in cones and brown them in the oven. 

Another Method. 

Boil and wash white mealy potatoes; season with salt, 
white pepper, butter, and a little milk; form them into 
balls, roll in flour, dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker-crumbs, 
fry them in hot lard of an even yellow brown ; pile them in 
» dish, and garnish with fresh parsley. 

Potatoes Stewed. 

Pare and slice white potatoes (cold boiled potatoes are 
preferable) ; cover with milk ; add butter, salt, and white 
pepper ; simmer gently for about ten minutes ; rub a tea- 
Bpoonful of flour with as much butter and stir it in the 
Btew ; let it stand until the flour is cooked and the gravy 
smooth ; mince some parsley and add, if you like it. 



156 hand-book fob the kitchex. 

Potatoes in Habtb. 

Slico cold boiled potatoes ; put them in boiling water and 
simmer about ten minutes; pour off the water, and add 
butter, salty and pepper ; serve hot. 

Potato Snow. 

Pare and wash white mealy potatoes ; boil them in salt 
and water; when tender, pour oif the water and dry them ; 
season with butter and a little milk ; stir them over the fire 
until they are white and dry ; rub them through a sieve, 
and serve. 

Potatoes 1 la Cr£me. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes into hot cream; add butter, 
beaten with a little flour ; simmer until smooth ; season 
with salt and white pepper. 

Potatoes Glazed. 

Select even-sized, well-boiled potatoes ; roll them in beat- 
en egg, and brown them in the oven. 

Potatoes Baked under Roasting Meat. 

Pare, wash, and parboil even-sized white potatoes; put 
them in the pan with roasting meat ; baste them and brown 
them. 

Potatoes Mashed. 

Pare, wash, boil, and mash them ; season with butter, 
salt, and milk ; shape them in an oval, make grooves with 
a knife, running down the sides, and brown them in the 
oven or before the fire. 

Potatoes Mashed with Onion. 

Boil some white onions; rub them through a sieve or col- 
ander; mix them with mashed potatoes; season with salt, 
pepper, and butter ; smooth them ; serve hot. 



VEQBTABLBB, 157 

Potatoes Scalloped. 

Boil and mash them ; season with salt, pepper, and milk ; 
put them in small pans ; cover them with butter and bread- 
crumbs ; brown them ; turn them, and brown on the mder- 
side. 

Potato Soupfl^. 

Select smooth, good-sized white potatoes ; wash them ; 
bake them in a hot oven ; cut a small piece from the top 
of each, take out the inside without breaking the skin ; 
mash and season with milk, butter, salt and yolk of eggs ; 
heat all and mix together ; add the whites of eggs beaten to 
a dry froth ; stir all to a paste, and put it back into the 
skins. Set them in a quick oven ten minutes. 

Potato Eissoles. 

Boil and mash the potatoes ; season with black and red 
pepper ; add some minced parsley, onions and minced meat, 
some beaten yolks of eggs ; shape them in ball or cake, and 
fry them in hot lard and butter. When served should be 
covered with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Cabbage Boiled. 

The old outside leaves should be cut off; cut in quarters ; 
examine between the leaves ; put in boiling water over the 
fire, with salt ; when tender, pour into a colander to drain, 
and mince with a chopping-knife ; season with butter, and 
serve in a dish^ or place round boiled corned beef or pork. 
Serve hot. 

Red Cabbage Stewed. 

Shred the cabbage ; wash it ; shred red onion ; add salt, 
X>epper, and butter; put in a saucepan and simmer until 
tender. Mix a little flour with butter, and stir in; add 
some vinegar. Serve hot. 



158 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITOHBN. 

Lettucb Stewed. 

Wash half a dozen heads of lettuce ; boil in salt and 
water until tender ; pour them through a colander to drain ; 
put them in cold water ; strain them ; put them in a sauce- 
pan with two ounces of butter mixed with one teaspoonful of 
flour, one blade of mace, a small piece of bacon stuck with 
six cloves ; cover with broth, and season to taste. Stew 
gently about one hour. Take out the lettuce into a dish, 
and pour the broth over ; garnish with hard-boiled eggs ; 
keep hot. 

Potato 1 la MaItre d^H6tel. 

Parboil the potatoes, and when cold slice them and put 
them in some rich broth, and let them boil. Mix a table- 
spoonful of flour with as much butter; add it, season with 
pepper, and salt, and minced parsley ; boil gently about ten 
minuies; beat the yolk of an egg with a little cold water 
iind juice of a lemon ; add it and simmer a few minutes ; 

serve hot. 

To Boil White Turnips. 

Pare and wash them ; boil them in water with salt ; when 
tender, strain off the water, cut them in slices into a dish, 
and pour drawn butter over them, or spread butter and 
sprinkle salt and pepper over them. 

Yellow Turnips Mashed with Potatoes. 

Pare, wash, and boil them in salt and water; when ten- 
der, pour off the water, mash them and mix them with 
equal quantity of mashed potatoes ; add some butter. 
Mould in oval shape ; serve hot. 

Observations on Boiling Greens. 

The water should be boiling; should have salt in it; 
the greens should be carefully picked over, and thoroughly 
washed. Different kinds require more or Ipss time. Spin* 



ySGBTABLBS. 159 

ach takes fifteen to twenty minutes ; when the greens sink, 
they should be poured through a colander and minced with 
a chopping-knife, seasoned with butter, and kept hot ; dip 
them in beaten egg, roll them in bread or cracker-crumbs, 
and frj them in hot lard and butter, of a yellowish brown. 
G-arnish with parsley. 

Parsnips Fried. 

Scrape and wash them ; boil them ; cut in slices length 
wise ; flour them and fry them. Serve, garnished with pars- 
ley. 

Beets Boiled. 

Wash and boil them; strain off the water and skin 
them ; slice them and sprinkle salt and pour melted butter 
over. Or a sauce of butter and vinegar or lemon-juice. 

Asparagus Boiled. 

Cut off the hard end ; wash them ; boil them in salt and 
water ; if fresh and young, they boil in twenty minutes ; 
strain off the water ; place them in deep dish on toast, and 
pour a rich white sauce over. 

Or make a sauce : heat half a gill of vinegar ; stir in a 
tablespoonful of butter beaten with a teaspoonful of flour, 
and the beaten yolk of an egg. Simmer until smooth, and 
pour over the asparagus. 

Asparagus Omelet. 

Boil them ; cut them in pieces an inch long ; simmer them 
in boiling water ; drain them ; roll them in flour and fry 
them ; mix one cupful of condensed milk with three well- 
beaten eggs ; simmer until thickened ; mix in the asparagus, 
and fry it in butter. Turn it out on a dish, and serve hot. 



160 hand-book fob thb kitohen. 

Green Peas Boiled. 

Pot them ; pat them in a little boiling water with saiti 
and boil gently until tender ; when you dish them, add but- 
ter to taste. 

Cabbage Boiled with Meat. 

Use one pound of corned bacon and four pounds of corned 
beef; wash them and put them over the fire in cold water ; 
put in the beef first, as it is the largest piece ; skim while boil- 
ing ; when the beef is nearly done, put in the cabbage ; it 
will boil in twenty -five minutes ; dish the meat, the bacon 
in the centre of a dish ; strain off the liquor from the cab- 
bage and place it around the bacon. Serve steaming hot ; 
serve the beef in another dish, garnished with fresh pars- 
ley, and some hot pot liquor poured over. 

Spinach Stewed with Sweet Sauce. 

Half a peck freshly picked spinach ; cut off the roots, take 
off the leaves, and rinse them in cold water ; put them in 
boiling water with salt; boil fifteen or twenty minutes; 
strain them through the colander; chop them in smaller 
pieces ; put them in a clean saucepan, with a little vinegar 
or lemon-juice, a good lump of butter, a little sugar and 
nutmeg ; let them simmer, and serve hot. 

Cauliflower Boiled. 

Select full white heads ; cut off the green outside leaves ; 
boil in salt and water twenty-five to thirty minutes ; strain 
off tlie water ; place the cauliflower in a deep dish, and 
pour rich white sauce over. 

To Boil Carrots. 

Wash them and scrape off the outside ; boil them in salt 
and water ; slice them lengthwise ; pour some melted but- 
tAv over, and garnish with the green leaves of the vegetable. 



yegstables. 161 

Parsnips Boiled. 

Scrape off the outside; wash them, boil in salt and 
water ; slice them lengthwise ; pour drawn butter over, and 
garnish with parsley. 

Parsnips Fried as Oysters. 

Scrape and boil them ; mash them ; season with butter 

and salt ; form them in an oval shape, size of a large oyster ; 

flour them. 

String-Beans 

Must be young, before the beans are formed ; cut the 
stem end and pull off the string, cut in pieces two inches 
long; put them in a little boiling water with salt; boil 
gently until tender ; add a lump of butter ; serve hot. 

Lima BEANh^ 

Shell them, and boil them in salt and water until tender ; 
strain off the water ; add some butter, and serve hot. 

To Boil Corn. 

Take off the outside husks ; put them in boiling water 
over the fire, with salt ; boil gently twenty minutes ; if the 
corn is young and tender, it will be sufficient ; pour off the 
water, take off the remaining husk, and serve hot. 

Corn Oysters. 

Grate off the com from half a dozen ears of young sweet 
com ; make a batter with one quart of milk, three well- 
beaten eggs ; thicken in two cups of flour, and one tea- 
spoonful of Dooley's yeast ; stir in the com, dip with a large 
spoon, and fry on a hot griddle well buttered. 

Another Method. 
Mix in two cups of flour, one cup of butter ; add suffi- 
cient seasoning to taste, with salt and pepper, three eggs well 



162 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KIIOHEN. 

beaten, whites and yolks separately ; stir in one quart of 
sweet corn, add one spoonful of Dooley's yeast ; fry on a 
hot griddle well buttered. 

Green Corn Patties. 

Grate twelve ears of com; mix two tablespoonfuls of flour 
with a teaspoonful of butter, one egg well beaten, one cup- 
ful of hot milk ; mould into cakes, and fry in hot lard. 

Corn and Lima Beans. 

Shell the beans ; cut the com from the cobs, put them in 
a saucepan with very little water and some salt; cover; 
boil until the beans are tender ; add butter to taste. 

Corn and String-Beans. 

Cut off the stem end, and pull off the strings ; cut them 
in inch pieces, and cut an equal quantity of corn from the 
cobs ; put them in a clean, bright saucepan, with boiling 
water and salt ; use as little water as possible ; boil until 
the beans are tender ; add butter to taste. 

Particular care is required in boiling string-beans. A 
porcelain-lined saucepan is best. 

Tomatoes Stewed. 

Skin them and put them in a saucepan with a very little 
boiling water and salt; boil until they are all separated 
evenly through the liquor ; put in some crumbs and butter ; 
simmer until thickened. 

Tomatoes Baked. 

Cut a slice off the stem end of five or six even-sized toma^ 
toes ; take out the pulp and mash and mix it with bread- 
crumbs, pepper, salt, butter, and grated onion ; mix all 
together and stuff the skin full, and fasten on the piece ; 



y£OBTABL£8. 163 

put some batter on top of each^ and bake them well ; baste 
them while baking. 

Onions Boiled. 

Select large white onions ; skin them ; put them in boil- 
ing water and salt ; boil until tender^ dish them and poui 
drawn butter over them. 

Onions Fbied. 

Slice them and fry them in hot lard and butter ; serv<» 
over liver or beefsteak. 

Eaa-PLANT. 

Skin <ind slice them in half-inch slices ; sprinkle salt over 
them and let them stand one hour ; dry them ; roll in flour, 
dip in beaten egg, and roll in cracker ; fry in hot lard. 

Eoo-PLANT Stewed. 

Skin them ; cut a slice from the top ; take out the seeds; 
fill them with forcemeat and stew in gravy. (See Gravy 
and Forcemeat.) 

Egg-plant Fried. 

Skin them ; stew in boiling water and salt ; when tender, 
strain off the water ; mash them ; season with salt and pep- 
per ; mix with bread-crumbs and beaten eggs and butter ; 
stir all well together ; fry in hot lard. 

MUSHBOOMS FbIED. 

Wash them in salt and water ; dry them ; roU in flour ; 
dip in beaten eggs ; roll in cracker-crumbs and fry in hot 
lard and butter. 

Mushrooms with Cream. 

Wash them ; parboil them ; strain off the water ; put in 
butter, pepper and salt, and cream ; simmer until tender ; 
grate in nutmeg and sweet herbs if you wish. 



164 HAND-BOOK FOR THB KITCHEN. 

MusHBooHS Baked. 

Melt some butter in a pan ; put in the mushrooms ; oovei 
with butter, minced parsley, cloves, salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg ; bake until nicely browned. ' 

CUCUHBEBS FbIED. 

Peel them; slice them into salt and water; rinse in cold 
water; boil until tender; season with salt and pepper; 
make a batter ; beat two eggs into one pint of milk ; stir in 
sufficient flour to make a batter ; add a spoonful of Dooley's 
yeast ; put in the cucumbers and fry them in hot lard. 

Abtichoke Obeam. 

Boil them tender in salt and water; drain them; put 
some butter over the fire in a clean saucepan ; some cream ; 
thicken with the yolk of an egg; season with salt and pep- 
per, some minced cives and parsley ; put in the artichokes, 
and simmer ; serve hot. 

Abtichokbs Fbied. 

Select young ones ; cut out the tough fibre called '^ the 
chokes ; " blanch them in boiling water ; dry them ; steep 
them in vinegar, salt, and pepper ; roll tkem in flour, then 
in beaten yolk of egg, again in flour, and fry them in lard, 
adding butter just before dishing ; serve with fried parsley. 

Boiled Abtichokes with Sauce. 

Boil them in water and salt until tender ; take out the 
choke ; serve with the following sauce : mix a large spoonful 
of flour with a teaspoonful of flour, a little salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg; add some hot vinegar; stir and simmer until 
smooth. Pour over. 



vegetables. 165 

Artichokes to be Served Plain with Choice of Sauces* 

Choose yoimg ones ; quarter them ; blanch them in boil- 
ing water over the fire ; take out the chokes ; season with 
salt and pepper. (See Sauces.) 

To Boil Hohint. 

Soak one pound of hominy in water about one hour ; 
linse and drain it ; stir it into about three quarts of boiling 
water over the fire ; stir it until it thickens ; let it simmer 
until tender^ stirring it occasionally. Ordinary quality will 
take about one hour, but coarser grain will take longer. 

HoHiNY Balls, of Cold or Hot Boiled. 

Mix one pint of hot milk with one well-beaten egg ; put 
it on the hominy and let it soften ; mash it smooth ; form 
in balls ; roll in flour and fry. 

To Boil Rice. 
Wash it thoroughly ; pick out the brown grains ; put it in 
a porcelain-lined saucepan with water a little more than 
covering it ; some salt ; simmer until tender, adding milk as 
it becomes dry ; do not stir it. To be served as a vegetable 
or with, sauce for dessert. 

Bice Croquettes. 
Wash and pick out the brown grains ; put it in a porce- 
lain-lined kettle with water a little more than covering; 
some salt ; simmer ; add milk as it becomes dry ; when ten- 
der, take it from the fire ; beat the yolk of two eggs to a 
half-pint of milk ; stir in carefully ; do not break the rice ; 
when oool, take a large cooking-spoonful and mould in shape 
of balls ; roll them in flour ; dip them in beaten egg and 
roll them in crumbs; fry in hot lard. Tou can flatten 
them and fill with fruit or jelly before shaping in balls; firy 
the same. 



166 hand-book fob the kitchen. 

Oysteb-plant Fbied. 

Select large plant roots; scrape the outside off; gr^te 
them ; to half a pint of oyster-plant mix the following bat- 
ter : one pint of milk, two eggs, some salt, flour sufficient 
to make a batter ; beat all well together ; dip the mixture 
with tablespoonfuls, and drop them in hot lard ; turn theiu 
when brown on one side, and brown the other equally. 

Oysteb-plant. 

Wash them ; scrape off the outside ; boil them in salt and 
water until tender ; strain off the water ; mash them ; make 
them into oval cakes about the size of large oysters ; roll 
them in flour ; dip in beaten egg ; roll in fine, dried crumbs ; 
fry them in hot lard. 

Macaboni. 

Wash it, and soak it in hot water until soft ; cut in pieces 
about an inch long ; add salt ; pour off the water ; cover it 
with grated cheese ; beat an egg in sufficient milk to cover 
it ; add slices of butter ; bake in a quick oven of a light 
brown ; garnish with parsley and hard-boiled eggs. 

Some Italians eat it with seasoned hash. 

Macaboni fob Lunch. 

Wash it, cut it, parboil it in water ; pour off the water ; 
cover it with milk, butter, and grated cheese ; simmer until 
tender ; put it on a steak-dish hot, and put some well-sea- 
soned hash over it ; garnish with fresh parsley. 

Sweet Potatoes Baked. 

Choose them of even size ; wash them well ; bake in a 
quick oven ; serve in their coats. 

Sweet Potatoes Boiled. 
Should be of equal size ; wash them ; boil them over a 
quick fire ; when tender, pour off the water and let them 



VEGETABLES. 16Y 

dry ; ke<ep them hot ; just before Berring take off tlie skiiiB, 
put them in a quick oven and brown them with a little but- 
ter over them. 

To Broil Sweet Potatoes. 

Choose large^ cold, boil<)d potatoes; slice them ; have the 
gridiron hot ; move and turn them until of an equal brown ; 
butter them and sprinkle a little salt over them. 

Sweet Potato Croquette. 

Boil and mash them ; season with butter and a little salt ; 
form in balls; roll in flour; dip in egg; roll in cracker- 
crumbs ; fry in hot lard. 

Peas Stewed. 

Put them in a saucepan with melted butter, a little pep- 
per and salty some thyme and parsley ; cover them and stew 
over a moderate fire ; shake them from time to time to cook 
them equally and keep them from sticking to the pan ; when 
nearly done add a little water thickened with flour ; simmer ; 
just before serving add a little sugar. 

Peas Stewed with Lettuce 

Put some shaved fat bacon in the bottom of a saucepan, 
some butter, some white onions cut in slices, some pepper 
and salt ; cut a large head of lettuce in pieces ; add it to the 
others ; put them on the fire ; when the lettuce is hot put 
in the peas ; stew until the peas are tender. Put the bacon 
in the bottom of the dish with some minced parsley and 
"Med bread-crumbs ; add a little boiling water to the peas ; 
aimmer ; pour them in the dish with the bacon and bread- 
orumbs. 



168 hakd-book fob thb kitohbn. 

Stbing-Beans 

Should be young, before the beans are formedi and fresl: 
picked^ bright green ; cut them in inch pieces, first catting 
off the end to which the string is attached, and pull off the 
string; put them in boiling water just sufficient to cover 
them, with a little salt ; boil un<^il tender ; add some but- 
ter. A very little soda is an improvement in boiling, as ii 
keeps the color and makes them tender. 






SALADS. 



Sauce for Salads. 

Take a nice clean dish ; rub the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs in it ; add a tablespoonful of mixed mustard, and three 
tablespoonfuls of salad oil ; mix it very smooth ; add some 
white pepper, cayenne, salt, fine sugar, a tablespoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, same of Chili vinegar, and two spoonfuls 
of common vinegar ; mix all well together, with half a gill 
of cream. (See Sauces.) 

Salad. 

Pick the lettuce over, and lay it in cold water. In warm 
weather change the water, adding a little ice. Just before 
you wish to serve, cut it small, and pour over it a nice 
dressing ; you can add pepper-grass. A nice salad can be 
made of dandelion leaves. 

Lobster Salad. 

Mince fine the meat of a large lobster, mash fine the yolks 
of two hard-boiled eggs, with four tablespoonfuls of sweet 
oil ; add pepper, salt, vinegar and mustard to taste ; mix 
all well together ; add some celery or lettuce ; when ready 
to serve, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, celery 
leaves and coral. 
8 



170 hand-book fob the kitohien. 

Chicken Salad. 

Cut into pieces some cold chicken ; cut ^eiy fine some 
lettuce or celery, four times as much chicken ; mix together ; 
season with salt, pepper, and a little vinegar ; take the 
yolk of ODe boiled egg^ a Kttle salt and a few drops of oil ; 
stir continually ; add a drop or two at a time of the juice 
of half a lemon and continue this until you have a sufficient 
quantity to spread over the top of your salad ; garnish with 
slices of egg and parsley. 

Another Method. 

Mince very fine the white meat of chicken or turkey ; mix 
• tablespoonful of best mixed mustard and a small teacup- 
fiil of oil ; add the oil gradually, beating continually ; add 
half the quantity white wine vinegar ; beat it up to a light 
froth; beat the whites of two eggs to a dry froth. Chop fine 
some white cabbage or celery ; add it to the minced chicken ; 
add the mixture to it, then add the whites of the eggs ; beat 
well, until it looks white ; garnish with sprigs of parsley or 
celery. Lean pork or veal roasted can be used instead of 
chickv3n. 

Another Method, 

Take cold boiled fowl, chop the meat fine ; to the meat 
of two fowls add three heads of celery chopped fine ; yolks 
of six boiled eggs, grated; mix three tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, one teaspoonful mixed mustard, a little pepper 
and vinegar ; put all together, stir well ; garnish with thin 
slices of hard-boiled eggs and sprigs of celery. Or you can 
use white sauce. 

Hot Slaw. 

Cut the cabbage in two ; then with a sharp knife shred it 
fine ; put it in a pan with salt, pepper, a little butter, vine- 



SALADS. 171 

gar, and a little water; cover and let it simmer until 
tender. 

Cold Slaw with White Sauce. 

Cut the cabbage in two ; shred it fine, make a dressing 
as follows : mix a tablespoonful of mixed mustard, half a 
cupful of oil, a little salt, two or three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar ; then beat again ; pour it over the cabbage. 

Cold Slaw. 

Shave the cabbage very fine, after cutting the head in 
two. Red and white in layers looks very pretty ; if only 
white cabbage is used, white sauce is the nicest. Any sauce 
can be used according to taste. A pleasant sauce which 
some persons like is made as follows : beat the yolks of three 
eggs ; add two teaspoonfuls of sugar, a teaspoonful of butter, 
half a teaspoonfcd of mixed mustard ; beat all well and add 
fivet ablespoonfuls of strong vinegar ; simmer, stirring un- 
til well mixed and smooth ; keep it until cold and serve 
on cold slaw or other salad, with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

Tomato Salad. 

Skin the tomatoes (choose perfect ones) ; put them on the 
ice until almost frozen ; slice them very thin ; mince some 
lettuce and place in layers with the tomatoes ; pour either 
sauce or dressing over them. 

Another Method, 

Skin and slice some perfect tomatoes ; grate some white 
onion through them ; put them on the ice until cold ; gar- 
nish with parsley or lettuce, and pour a nice sauce over 
them. 

Greek Mayonnaise Salad. 

Put some lettuce, cives, sorrel and some minced celery 
tops in boiling water with some salt ; let them stand seven 



L72 HAND-BOok FOB THE KITCHEN. 

minutes, take out, oool and drain them ; pound them, adding 
some boiled green peas; add a little mayonnaise sauce , 
mash and squeeze them through a sieve; mix them with 
mayonnaise sauce, to serve with boiled fish or lobster; some- 
times prepare red with coral from the lobster. 

Salad. 

Chop some celery ; put it in your salad dish. Slice some 
fine, tender red beets (boiled and cold); some cold hard- 
boiled eggs ; garnish with leaves ; pour over, either plain 
or mayonnaise sauce. 

Potato Salad. 

Chop some nice white cold boiled potatoes ; place them 
in your salad-dish. Add some minced cold boiled beets ; 
garnish with celery or watercresses. Pour the salad dress- 
ing over. 

Another Method. 

Slice cold potatoes with young onions, or grated onion. 
Pour dressing over. 

Salad. 

Slice cold potatoes with cold beans, beets, and asparagus ; 
garnish with parsley or celery tops. Pour either dressing 
over. 

Dbessino fob Salads. 

Three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, saltspoonful of pepper, 
saltspoonful of salt, tablespoonful of grated onion, table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Mix and pour over the salad. 

Dbessiko fob Salad. 

Teaspoonful of olive oil, tablespoonful of mix()d mui tard, 
a little salt and pepper, half a gill of vinegar. 
Or salt, pepper, and vinegar, mixed to taste. 



SALADS. 173 

Anothsr Method, 

Boil three eggs very hard, throw them into wld water ; 
then mash the yolks fine in a spoonful of water and two of 
oil ; add some salt, powdered sugar, some made mustard, 
and vinegar ; pour it over the salad, and garnish the top 
with slices of egg, beetn^ or sprigs of parsley. 



PICKLES. 



To Make Yikeoar. 

Three gallons of rain-water. Mix one quart of molasses 
and one pint of yeast. Let it stand four weeks. 

Vinegar. 

Five gallons of cider, one gallon of molasses^ one gallon 
of whiskey, three gallons of water, half a gallon of yeast. 
Keep in a very warm place. 

Another Method. 

One gallon of water, one gallon of honey. Stir until weU 
mixed, then keep it in sunshine. 

Another Method, 

Three quarts of cider ; add one quart of soft water ; fill 
a barrel two-thirds full, and keep it warm. 

Chili Vinegar. 

Skin two dozen green tomatoes ; eight green peppers, ten 
onions, two cups of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, one 
spoonful of cloves, one of allspice, two quarts of vinegar. 
Mince all together. 

Tarragon Vinegar. 
Soak tarragon leaves in vinegar. 



PIOKLEB. 175 

To Pickle Cauliflowers. 

Cut off the hard stems. Simmer them a few minutes in 
hot water with salt. Drain them out ; put them in jars. 
Season enough hot vinegar to cover them, with one ounce 
of mustard-seed, one of mace. Simmer and pour it over 
the cauliflowers ; pour in some sweet oil. Cover. 

To Pickle Hickory or Butternuts. 

Gather them while green, before the shells are hard ; boil 
them in several waters with salt to take the bitterness out. 
When quite tender, pour hot spiced vinegar over them ; 
whole cloves, pepper, and mace, heated in the vinegar. Put 
them in jars, and when cool, cover them. 

To Pickle Peaches. 

Choose hard, white peaches ; brush off the fur ; put them 
in salt and water. Make a nice syrup of white sugar dis* 
solved in boiling water, and boiled until rich. Add one 
quart of vinegar to each pint of syrup ; add a few whole 
cloves. Take the peaches from the salt water ; put them in 
a jar, and pour the syrup and vinegar over them, hot. 
When cool, cover and seal. 

Mrs. H.'s Pickled Peaches. 

Pare and stone seven pounds of peaches ; dissolve three 
and a half pounds of white sugar in one pint of white vinegar, 
with one ounce of whole cloves ; put in the peaches and 
cook them thoroughly; take out the fruit and put it in 
a jar. Simmer the liquor until rich, and pour it over 
through a strainer. 

Pickle Lilly. 

Peck of green tomatoes sliced with twelve onions ; one cup 
of salt; let them stand; pour off the liquor; add one 
ounce of cloves, one of allspice, one of mustard, with one 



176 HAND-BOOK FOB THB ETTOHBN. 

pound of brown sugar. Oover all with good cider vincgarj 
and simmer until all are saturated. Bottle for use. 

To Make Bbinb. 

Take nine pounds of rock-salt, six ounces saltpetre, 
three pints of molasses ; add water, and let it stand until 
strong enough to bear an egg. 

Pickles 
Should be kept in glass jars or bottles. 

To Pbepabe Yinegab. 

One pound of ginger sliced and dried ; one pound of 
horseradish, scraped ; one pound of mustard seed, washed 
and dried ; one ounce of whole pepper ; one ounce each of 
nutmeg and mace pounded fine ; put them in a pot ; pour 
over them two gallons of strong vinegar ; let it stand two 
or three months, stirring frequently. 

When you wish to use it, add two gallons more of vine- 
gar, with mace and nutmeg, and let it stand. When you 
pour off the vinegar, do so carefully. 

To Make Green Pickles. 

Put the articles in a pot ; cover with boiling water and 
salt ; put a thick cloth over the top ; put on a cover or plate 
that will just fit. Let it stand until next morning ; then 
pour off the water, boil again, and cover as before. Con" 
tinue this until the pickles are a good green, then put them 
into cold vinegar. In two weeks draw off the 'tfater and 
pour on prepared vinegar. 

To Make Tellow Pickles. 

Put the articles in a pot ; pour on boiling water and salt ; 
let them stand two days ; press the water from them ; cover 



PI0£LE8. 177 

a table with a cloth, put the pickles on and let them di^ 
in the sun ; turn frequently ; then put them into cold vine- 
gar with a little turmeric in it. Let them stand two weeks, 
draw off the water, and pour on prepared vinegar. 

To Make Sour-kraut. 

Out some cabbage as for slaw ; sprinkle the bottom of 
jour pot with salt, then a layer of cabbage, then salt, and 
so alternately until full ; pound it to pack it close ; covet 
tight ; place a heavy weight upon it. In two weeks pour 
off the water. When it has become acid by fermentation, 
it is ready for use. Fry in butter or drippings. 

Lemon Pickle. 

Grate the yellow rind from two dozen lemons ; cut them 
in quarters, leaving them together ; sprinkle with salt and 
dry in the sun. Brush off the salt, put them in a pot with 
an ounce of nutmeg and the same of pounded mace, handful 
of horseradish scraped and dried, two dozen cloves of garlic, 
and one pint of mustard-seed ; pour on a gallon of vinegar, 
tie the pot close, cover with a board ; let it stand three 
months. Strain until clear and bottle it. 

East India Pickle. 

Take radish pods, green peppers, green grapes, capers, 
nasturtions, walnuts, butternuts, peaches, cherries, apricots, 
and small onions. Make a brine that will bear an egg ; 
pour it hot over the above. Let them stand four days, 
stirring every day. Make a spiced pickle ; dry the ingre- 
dients from the brine ; pour the pickle boiling hot over 
them. Add some mustard seed and cover close. 

To Pickle Peppers or Green Tomatoes. 
Put them in a pot with boiling water to cover them, and 
Brtlt. Put a weight on them to keep them down. Let stand 



178 HAND-BOOK FOK THE KITCHEN. 

two days, then dry them ; make a hole in the side to let cU 
the water ; wipe them, put them in a stone jar with half an 
ounce of cloves, the same of allspice, and a small lump of 
alum. Cover with vinegar. The tomatoes can be pickled 
with the peppers. 

To Pickle Oucumbebs. 

Wash them, pour over them a strong brine; let them 
stand a week ; then wash in fresh water, warm ; line the 
kettle with cabbage and peach leaves ; put in the pickles ) 
add equal quantities of vinegar and water to cover them. 
Cover the kettle ; put it over a slow fire ; let the water get 
hot but not simmer. When green, take them out and 
drain ; wipe dry. Put them into small jars, with cloves 
and allspice, a few onions, a small piece of alnm in each jar. 
Cover with cider vinegar ; tie close and keep in a dry place. 

To Pickle Mushrooms, Beans, etc. 

Peel the mushrooms ; soak in water. Heat some water, 
put in the mushrooms, some oives or small onions, and 
marjoram ; boil a minute ; drain them well. When cold, 
put them in a jar with cloves, pepper, onion, salt and vine- 
gar ; cover close. French beans done in same manner. 

Nasturtions. 

Take them while green, put them into vinegar and salt ; 
let them stand a while. Then boil the vinegar, and pour it 
hot over them into jars. 

r 

Mangoes. 

Cut a small piece from one end of a melon ; take out the 
seeds; stuff it with shred cabbage, garlic, mustard-seed, 
young peppers, small white onions, greeu beans, cloves. 



PICKLES. 179 

mace, and allspice. Close the end ; simmier in salt and wa« 
ter two hours; then drain them. Heat some vinegary 
put the mangoes in jars, and pour the vinegar over. If 
you wish to keep them long, change the vinegar occasionally. 

To Pickle Onions. 

Take off the skins and ends of small white onioLjs ; par- 
boil them in salted water ; then put them in a jar. Heat 
some vinegar with cloves, mace, and allspice. Pour it over 
the onions, and when cool, bottle for use. 

Chow-chow. 

Boil separately in salt and water a cauliflower, some 
young beans, young onions ; simmer some small pickles. 
Put all into glass jars. Beat a teacupful of best mixed 
mustard with a bottle of oil. Add a pint of vinegar, the 
yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Beat all smooth ; pour it 
into the jars ; seal tight. Let it stand two or three weeks. 

Another Method, 

Four pounds of cabbage, cut flne ; four pounds of brown 
sugar ; one pound of white mustard seeds ; some horserad- 
ish, grated flne ; some green peppers, cut small ; a small piece 
of alum, and a good quantity of salt* Cover with vinegar. 

To Pickle Oysters. 

Boil the liquor of the oysters, and pour it over them ; let 
them stand a few minutes ; take them out and boil again, 
with a gill of vinegar, a few black peppers, a few cloves, two 
or three blades of mace. Let this get cold, then pour it 
over the oysters, and cover closely. 

To Pjckle Peaches. 
Hub them with a cloth ; stick in two or three cloves ; to 
a gallon of vinegar put six pounds of brown sugar ; put the 



180 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

peaches in a jar; put the vinegar and sugar into 3 our pre 
serving-kettle ; when melted, put them over the fire, boil 
ard skim ; pour it boiling over the peaches ; cover closely ; 
repeat three or four times. If the vinegar is too strong, add 
water. 

To Pickle Plums, Pears, etc. 

Use damsons ; wipe and prick them ; put them in a jar. 
To a gallon of vinegar put six pounds of brown sugar ; if 
too strong, add water. Put it in your kettle ; when melted, 
boil and skim ; pour it boiling over the plums ; cover close ; 
repeat three or four times. 

To Pickle Cherbies. 

Pick off the stems; place them in a glass jar, with cold 
vinegar to cover ; keep in a cool place until pickled. 

To Pickle Citron. 

Cut off the green skin ; cut the citron in pieces ; parboil it 
in water and salt ; take it out, put it in jars ; heat seme vine 
gar with a few cloves, pour it over the citron. 



EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 



SOUPPL^. 

Separate the whites from the yolks of four or six eggs in 
deep dishes ; beat the whites with an egg-beater or broad 
fork, until stiff and dry ; beat the yolks with half a cup of 
milk and a little salt ; stir the stiff whites into the yolks ; 
heat about two ounces of lard, or half lard and butter, in an 
omelet, or clean frying-pan ; turn in your omelet, and cook 
gently until stiff; six eggs fill a good-sized pan, when 
cooked ; put a dish on the top of the pan, and turn it over, 
serve hot ; four eggs cooked in the same way can be rolled 
when put in a dish for the table. 

Sweet Omelet. 

Beat whites and yolks separately in deep dishes; add 
half a cup of milk to the beaten yolks of four eggs ; melt 
some butter and lard in your pan ; when hot, not burned, 
stir your beaten whites into the yolks, pour it into the hot 
butter, cook slowly; when stiff, dredge some fine white 
sugar over before serving. 

When used for dessert, spread some jelly or jam on, and 
roll it up ; sprinkle some more sugar, and serve hot. 

Ham Omelet. 

Beat four or six eggs to a froth ; add a gill of milk ; sea- 
son with a little salt and pepper ; grate some very sweet 



182 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCnEN. 

ham and beat in. You can add some fine cbop])ed onion ; 
fiy as before in hot lard. 

Oyster Omelet. 

Beat four eggs as for other omelet, adding a little milk, 
salt and pepper; cut some good oysters in half, and drop 
them in ; fry a little brown, and dish as before. 

Stirred Eggs. 

Beat the eggs to a thick cream, season with salt and pep- 
per, pour them into some hot butter in a saucepan ; stir 
them until thick. Serve on buttered toast. 

To Fry Eggs. 

Break them into hot butter, lard, or gravy, let them stand 
on a moderately hot part of the range or stove, until the 
whites harden, or can be easily turned, if you wish to cook 
on both sides. 

To Poach Eggs. 

Break them into boiling water; let them stand until 
cooked ; serve on toast with butter melted, or gravy poured 
over them. The gravy can be seasoned with leek. 

Cold Boiled Eggs Dressed. 

Take hard-boiled eggs, cut them lengthwise ; melt some 
butter with cream, a little pepper, and chopped parsley ; 
shake them gently while heating; serve with or without 
toast. You can make cream by beating one spoonful of 
flour and two of butter into half a pint of hot milk, an 3 
simmer. 

Or chop some salad, mix with sauce, and pour over tht 



EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 183 

To Bake Eggs. 

Cut a small piece of shell from the small end of the eggs ; 
set them closely in the pan ; bake in a quick oven. 

Omelet with Boiled Gbeen Peas, Asparagus or Cau- 
liflower. 

Make an omelet with four or six eggs ; beat the yolks 
with a little milk and salt; beat the whites to a dry froth, 
stir gently into the yolks ; have a little butter and lard hot, 
in the omelet-pan ; pour in the eggs, and put them in a 
moderately hot place* on the stove, to cook of a nice brown, 
careful not to burn ; when stiff, cover it with the vegetable! 
and double it up. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, BREAKFAST- 
CAKES, ETC. 



Wheat Bbead wtfh Fleisohmakn's Yeabt. 

Seven pounds of wheat-flour; mix with half a cake of 
Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in warm water, a spoonful of salt, 
and a spoonful of lard or butter; add sufficient water to make 
a stiff dough ; let it stand half an hour in a warm place to 
rise. Knead in two spoonfuls of sugar ; divide it into three 
or four loaves ; put them into floured pans. Let them rise, 
which will take about half an hour. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Wheat Bread with Yeast Case. 

Seven pounds of wheat-flour. Dissolve one yeast-cake in 
warm water; mix with two pounds of flour, two pounds of 
white, mealy potatoes, boiled and mashed, one spoonful of 
salt, sufficient warm water for a stiff batter. Set it in a warm 
place to rise. It will take several hours; mix overnight. 
When light, tyiit in the remaining flour ; add warm water or 
milk to make a stiff dough ; let it rise ; when light, shape 
into loaves; place in floured pans; let it stand until again 



( 



BREAD, BISCUITS, BREAKFAST-CAKES, ETC- 185 

risen; bake in moderately quick oven. Turn the loaves 
and bake every part. 



Bread with Dooley's Yeast. 

JJse the baking powder in proportion of two spoonfuls for 
each pound of flour; saltspoonful of salt, and use either 
warm water or milk; form in loaves, and bake as other 
bread. Do not mix the dough too stiff. Mould softly; 
place in floured pans ; let it rise ten minutes or more, ac- 
cording to the size of the loaves. 

Wheat Bread with Yeast. 

Two pounds of flour ; mix one teacupful of bakers' yeast, 
half a cupful of molasses; add sufficient milk to make a 
dough. Let it rise. 

Wheat and Indian Bread. 

Mix two pounds of wheat-flour with three pounds of 
sweet corn-meal; tablespoonful of salt, cup of yeast (or 
half a cake of compressed yeast). Moisten to a stifl* batter ; 
leave it in a warm place to rise. When light, knead 
in two pounds more of wheat-flour. Form in loaves ; put 
in oval bread-pans, well floured, to rise. Bake in moder- 
ately hot oven; move if necessary, to cook every part 
equally. 

Ete Bread. 

One quart of rye-flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, two 
tablespoonfuls of brewers' yeast (or a quarter of a cake of 
compressed yeast dissolved) ; sufficient warm water to make 
a stiff paste (stir with a spoon) ; flour the pan ; put in your 
paste, and when light, bake. (Or bake in muffin-ri ags.) 



186 hand-book fob the kitchen. 

Eye and Indian Bread. 

Scald two pounds of yellow Iudian>meal (bj pouring 
boiling water on as long as it will absorb) ; when cool, add 
a little more rye-flour than the quantity of com (about 
three pounds) ; add sufficient warm water to make a stiff bat- 
ter ; add half a cupful of good yeast (or half a cake of com- 
pressed yeast dissolved) , one teaspoonful of salt, three tea- 
spoonfuls of molasses, and knead thoroughly. Set it in a 
warm place to rise. When light, put it in well-buttered 
earthen dishes, and let it bake slowly at first, and then close 
the oven and bake as other bread. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Scald three pints of Indian-meal ; when cool, add three 
pints of rye-flour, one pint of boiled pumpkin, one teaspoon- 
ful of molasses, one teaspoonful of baking soda, half a tea- 
cupful of good yeast. Mix with tepid water as stiff as you 
can ; stir it with a cooking-spoon ; butter either earthen or 
iron pans, and put your bread in ; level the top, by wetting 
your hands and smoothing it. It rises rapidly, but it is 
best in summer to mix it overnight. Bake in a qtdck 
oven (not so hot as to bum) ; it bakes slowly. 

Graham Bread. 

One teacupfiil of wheat-flour, one of Indian-meal; 
beat in three pints of warm water, one small teacupful.of 
yeast, two spoonfuls of molasses, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of baking soda ; stir well, and add sufficient 
Graham flour to make a stiff batter. Mix overnight. Stir 
it well in the morning, and put it in buttered pans. Let it 
rise again, and bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven. 

Dyspepsia Bread. 
Three quarts of unbolted wheat-flour, one quart of warm 



BREAD, BI8CUITS, BREAKFAST-CAKER, ETC. 187 

water, one gill of yeast, one gill of molasses; beat well to- 
gether and let it rise. When light, bake in buttered tins. 

Pumpkin Bbead. 

Boil some pumpkin, adding a little salt; when tender, 
strain off the water, and add half as mnch flour; add milk 
and eggs (four eggs to a quart of milk) ; beat the eggs, whites 
and yolks separately ; stir them to the pumpkin ; add the 
flour, salt, a little sugar, a spoonful of yeast ; sufficient milk 
for a soft dough. Bake in buttered tins. 

BioB Bbead. 

One pint of boiled rice ; three pints of wheat-flour ; a little 
salt ; a cupful of yeast ; mix to a stiff paste ; let it rise ; bake 
in loaves in floured tins. 

AnotJier Method. 

One quart of rice-flour ; one pint of milk ; a cupful of yeast ; 

stir some warm water to the rice-flour ; beat to a stiff batter ; 

pour in boiling water, and simmer until the rice is cooked ; 

add the milk ; let it cool ; add the yeast and a spoonful of 

salt; beat in wheat-flour until it becomes stiff; let it rise; 

add sufficient flour to mould into loaves. When light, bake 

in floured pans. 

Corn Bbead. 

Two quarts of boiling milk; stir in one quart of Indian 
meal, two ounces of butter. When cool, add two well-beaten 
eggs, half a pint of wheat-flour, a teaspoonful of salt, a little 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; beat well ; bake 
in buttered tins or rings. 

Abbowboot Cakes. 

Two cupfuls of arrowroot; two cupfuls of wheat-flour; 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar, beaten with same 

quantity of butter till light; add three well-beaten eggs; 



1S8 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

beat in the arrowroot and flour ; beat thoroughly ; roll io 
thin cakes and bake in a moderate oven. 

Potato Cakes. 

To one quart of mashed potatoes add a cupful of milk and 
two well-beaten eggs, a little salt, and sufficient flour to 
make a good paste ; form into cakes and bake on buttered 
tins. 

Potato Biscuit. 

To one quart of mashed potatoes add butter the size of an 
eggy a little salt ; stir in half a pint of milk ; flour to make 
a dough; one gill of yeast ; let them rise ; when light, mould 
them with your hands into shape ; put them on floured tins ; 
let them stand flfteen minutes to rise ; bake. 

Breakfast ob Tea Cakes. 

To one pound of wheat-flour mix four ounces of buttrjr 
and lard mixed ; rub thoroughly through the flour with a 
little salt ; add half a pint of milk to four well-beaten eggs ; 
beat them into the flour with as much milk as is required 
to make pastry ; knead it thoroughly ; form into cakes and 
bake quickly. , 

Puffs— Biscuit. 

Three pints of water boiling over the fire ; stir in three- 
quarters of a pound of butter and one pound of wheat-flour ; 
stir while simmering ; let it cool ; beat in ten eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately. Cut the dough into equal parts 
with a cooking-spoon and bake on buttered tins in a quick 
oven. 

Amebigan Puffs. 

Bub half a pound of butter with half a pound of flour and 
half a pound of sugar ; add half a pint bakers' yeast and one 
and a half pints cold boiled milk, and five well-beaten eggs , 



BREAD, BISCUITS, BREAKFAST-CAXES, ETC. 189 

mix thoronghly together, adding sufficient flour to monld it 
to a paste ; put it into buttered tins ; bake when light. 

Wheat and Oobn Muffins. 

One pint of wheat-flour, one pint of yellow meal, sufficient 
milk for a batter, four well-beaten eggs, one gill of yeast ; let 
it rise ; when light, bake in buttered muffin-rings on a but- 
tered griddle, or a muffin-pan. They will take several hours 
to rise. For breakfast mix them at night. 

Muffins. 

One quart of milk, three well-beaten eggs, a gill of yeast, 
sufficient flour to make a batter, a cupful of melted butter ; 
mix thoroughly; bake on a buttered griddle in rings or 
muffin-pan. They take several hours to rise. 

Byb Muffins. 

One pound of rye-flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, three ounces of butter or lard, 

sufficient milk or water to make a batter ; bake in buttered 

rings on a buttered griddle or muffin-pan. 

Another Method. 

Mix one pound of rye-flour with a teaspoonful of salt and a 
gill of yeast (mix at night) ; sufficient water to make a stiff 
batter ; let it rise. Bake in buttered muffin-pans. 

COBN-OAEE. 

Mix three cupfuls of corn-meal with two cupfuls of wheat- 
flour, half a teaoupful of molasses, a little salt, two spoonfuls 
of baking powder ; sufficient water to make a stiff dough ; 
mix in half a cupful of butter, or milk, which will make it 
more delicate. 



190 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHKN. 

BicH Corn Bread. 

One quart of boiling milk ; stir in six tablespoonfuk o^ 
yellow^ corn-meal ; beat it well ; two tablespoonfuis of but- 
ter ; cool ; beat in four well- beaten eggs ; bake in corn-cake 
pans well buttered. 

Corn Bread. 

Two cupfuls of yellow corn-meal^ two cupfuk of flour, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one quart of milk; one cupful of 
molasses, two spoonfuls of Dooley's yeast or baking powder, 
a little salt ; mix thoroughly, and bake in buttered pans. 

Johnny-cake. 

One quart of boiling milk ; stir in three cupfuls of yellow 
corn-meal, one cupful of hot boiled rice, a spoonful of sugar, 
two spoonfuls of butter, teaspoonful of baking powder ; beat 
thoroughly, and bake slowly in buttered tins. 

Fried Johnny-cakes. 

Scald one quart of com-meal by pouring sufficient boiHng 
water to make a thick batter ; add three teaspoonfuls of salt ; 
when cool, flour your hands and form cakes ; drop them in 
hot lard and fry them ; turn them over when brown on one 
side and brown the other ; split them while hot and butter 
them. Serve hot. 

Buttermilk Eolls. 

One quart of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, one tea* 
spoonful of carbonate of soda, sufficient sour buttermilk to 
make dough Form in shape. 

Short Rolls. 

Two pounds of flour, two ounces of butter rolled with the 
flour ; mix a well-beaten egg with a gill of yeast, and one 



BHBAD, BISCUITS, BAKAKFAST-OAKES, ETC. 101 

quart of warm milk ; add the flour and butter, and more 
milk if necessary, to make a soft dough ; let it stand near tho 
tire overnight ; mould in shape, and bake for breakfast. 

Breakfast Bolls. 

In one quart of wheat-flour rub a quarter of a pound of 
butter, two teaspoonfuls of Dooley's yeast, and sufficient 
milk to make a dough ; roll out your paste, cut with a good- 
sized cup ; turn one half over the other and bake. 

Bbeaefast Cakes. 

Two cupfuls of warm boiled rice, two tablespoonfuls of 
molasses, a little ginger, one quart of sour milk beaten with 
the rice, a little salt, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dis- 
solved in a libtle milk, sufficient wheat-flour to make the 
dough ; bake on a buttered griddle. 

Biscuits. 

One quart of wheat-flour, a tablespoonf ul of btitter, a salt- 
spoonful of salt, two spoonfuls of baking powder, or two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and one of soda ; mix with 
sufficient milk to make the paste ; roll out, cut in shape, 
and bake in floured pans. 

Scores. 

Mix with three-quarters of a pound of wheat-flour two 
ounces of butter, a little salt ; moisten with milk ; roll very 
thin ; out the size of a saucer ; prick them ; bake. 

Arrowroot Breakfast Cakes. 

One quart of sifted arrowroot, half a cup of flour, a little 
salt, two spoonfuls of butter, one egg, well beaten, mixed 
with sufficient milk to make dough; roll out; cut into 
cakes ; bake on a hot griddle well buttered ; split while hot 
aud batter. Serve hot. 



192 HAKD-BOOK FOB THE JOTOHEN. 

Another Method, 

Two capfuls of sifted arrowroot, same of flour, four i&hl^ 
spoonfuls of butter ; mix with gill of yeast, and sufficient 
milk to make biscuit ; knead ; then roll out and let them 
rise ; when light, shape and bake in buttered tins. 

Cbumpets. 

Put two pounds of flour in a pan with a little salt ; set it 
by the flre until hot ; mix in warm milk and water until iv 
becomes a stiff batter ; mix a cupful of the batter with three 
well-beaten eggs and three spoonfuls of brewers' yeast ; add 
this to the batter in the pan, and cover closely; set it near 
the flre to rise ; grease the pan lightly, and fry one crumpet, 
and if light enough, continue ; have them of a light brown. 

Sweet Potato Buns. 
Boil and mash the potatoes; mix in sufflcient flour to 
make a dough; add spice and sugar to taste; yeast, two 
tablespoonfuls ; add some butter, knead, and when light, 
bake in shape. 

Indian Griddle-cakes. 

One pound of corn-meal, scalded with boiling water ; half 
a teaspoonful of salt; three tablespoonfuls of wheat-flour; 
two eggs, beaten in sufficient milk to make the batter ; two 
spoonfuls of baking powder ; fry on a hot griddle buttered. 

CORN-CAKES. 

One pint of corn-meal, one cup of flour, a little salt and 
ginger, tablespoonful of molasses, teaspoonful of bread soda, 
sufficient sour milk to make the batter, one well-beaten egg. 
Cook them on the griddle or in com-cake pans. 

Another Metfiod. 
One quart of Indian-meal ; mix with a cupful of flour. 
Btir in one quart of hot milk, a little salt, three well- beaten 



BEEAD, BISCUITS, BKEAKFAST-CAKES, ETC. 193 

eggs, and a gill of yeast. Mix thoroughly, and set to rise. 
Bake on a hot, buttered griddle. 

BUGKWHBAT-OAEBS. 

Two pounds of buckwheat flour, a cupful of corn-meal, a 
cupful of wheat-flour, a tablespoonful of salt. Mix to a 
thick batter, with warm water ; add a cupful of yeast, or one 
yeast-cake, dissolved in warm water. Mix it at night to 
use for breakfast. The best leaven is a cupful of light batter 
saved each day to mix and rise the next. If the batter be- 
comes too light and frothy, add a little flour and a very 
little soda. Mix and let it stand about ten minutes. Can 
omit wheat-flour. 

BUGEiWHEAT-OAKES m HaSTB. 

Two pounds of buckwheat flour, with or without corn-meal 
and wheat-flour; two spoonfuls of baking powder to each 
pound of flour ; add salt and warm water. Will be ready in 
ten minutes. Or, three pounds of buckwheat, half a pound 
of corn-meal, half a pound of wheat-flour, a quarter of a cake 
of Fleischmann's yeast dissolved in warm water. Mix with 
warm water and salt. Beady in one hour. 

Wheat GfiiDDiiE-CAKES. 

One pound of wheat-flour, a teaspoonful of salt, a table- 
spoonful of baking powder, two eggs beaten into sufficient 
milk to make a batter. Fry on a hot buttered griddle. 

Another Method, 

Two pounds of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, four teaspoon- 

fuls of baking powder, six eggs beaten with sufficient milk to 
9 



194 HAND-BOOK FOS TH£ KITCHEN. 

nukke a batter. Fry on hot buttered griddle about as large 
as a saucer. As they are taken from the griddle spread 
them with jelly, preserves, or fresh fruit ; they make a quick 
dessert, or a delightful dish at tea-time. 

Flat-jacks. 

Thicken one quart of sour milk with wheat-flour, a little 
salt, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in the 
milk. Bake on a hot griddle. 

Waffles. 

One quart of wheat-flour, four well-beaten eggs, one quart of 
milk. Mix two teaspoonfuls of baking powder or Dooley's 
yeast with the flour ; add a little salt ; rub in one oimce 
of butter ; beat the milk and eggs together ; add the flour. 
Heat the waffle-iron ; butter it ; flU in the batter, leaving 
space for rising. On taking out the waffles sprinkle sugur 
and spice over them, while hot, or serve with preserves. 



PUDDINGS. 



Observations. 

Bread and custard pudding require time, and a moderate 
oven that will raise and not bum them. Batter and rice re- 
quire a quick oven, and always remember to butter the 
pans before the puddings are put in. When the pudding 
is boiled, have the cloth very clean ; dip it in boiling water ; 
flour it well, and shake it. If you boil the pudding in a 
pan, butter it, and boil it in plenty of water ; turn it often ; 
do not cover the pan. When you take it from the pan, let 
it stand a few minutes to cool, then untie the string ; lap 
the cloth back over the pan ; lay your dish on the top ; turn 
the pudding out ; take the pan and cloth off carefully. 

Dvmhplinga, — In boiling, the cover should not be re- 
moved, or the water allowed to cease boiling until the paste 
is done. Baking powder can always be used instead of 
soda and cream of tartar. Dooley's is the best. 

Habd Paste fob Boiled Puddino. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of suet, one or two eggs, 
a little salt, a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, or three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Moisten into rather a soft dough. 

Another Method, 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, oz 
lard rubbed through the flour, one egg well beaten, a little 



196 BLmy-BOOK fob the kitchen. 

salty three teaspoonf uls of baking powder. Moisten into a 
soft dough with milk and water ; roll out rabher thin on a 
floured paste board ; spread your fruit over it ; roll it up ; 
tie it in your pudding cloth (see Observations) ; boil about 
an hour over a quick fire. You can use either of the 
recipes for fruit or meat dumplings. 

Paste for Boiled Pudding. 

Half a pound of suet, one pound of flour, the whites of 
four eggs beaten to a froth, one quart of milk, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder ; beat all up as light as possible ; 
add a little salt. Nice for fruit pudding. 

Paste for Dumplings. 

One pound of flour, two boiled potatoes mashed fine ; mix 
together with a little salt ; then make a stiff dough with boil- 
ing water ; flour the board and turn the paste on it ; dredge 
with flour; work lightly; roll thin; spread the fruit on; 
roU it up ; ' tie up in cloths, and drop into boiling water ; 
boil till tender. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

One quart of cold milk, six tablespoonfuls of tapioca ; stir 
them over the fire until well mixed ; one ounce and a half 
of powdered sugar ; let it boil a quarter of an hour, stirring 
occasionally ; turn into a pan ; stir in while hot one ounce 
of fresh butter, three eggs well beaten ; bake gently for one 
hour in a buttered pudding-dish. This pudding can be 
boiled by adding two more eggs ; when boiled it must be 
steeped in the milk, and be quite cold before being mixed ; 
let it stand in the mould a quarter of an hour before being 
turned out ; serve with red jelly. 



PUDDINGS. 197 

Another Method. 

Boil four Bpooonfdls of tapioca in a pint of milk ; when 
cold, sweeten, and add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, 
a little extract of vanilla; bake in a battered pan; when 
done, let it stand in a cool place. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a dry froth ; serve it on the top of your pudding 
with sherry or Madeira wine. Essence of lemon or orange 
flower- water can be used instead of vanilla. 

Ego Puddikq. 

One pint of milk, two eggs well beaten, tablespoonful of 
butter, tablespoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix 
well together ; bake in a pan or boil in a mould. 

Serve with wine sauce. 

Another Method* 

Five eggs well beaten ; keep out three whites ; add half 
an ounce of butter, one and a half tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half a pound of white powdered sugar, a little salt ; beat the 
three whites very light ; add two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, and when the pudding is nearly cold pour on the 
icing. To be baked in a quick oven. 

Serve with some wine. 

Tbanspabent Pudding. 

Beat together eight eggs, eight ounces of sugar, eight 
ounces of butter, and some nutmeg ; put them in a stew-pan 
over the fire; stir continually until thick, then pour into a 
basin to cool ; put a rich paste around the sides of your 
dish ; pour in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Cracker Pudding without Milk. 
Eight soda«biscuits pounded up floe, eight well-beaten 



198 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHEN 

eggs, four cups of water; sweeten to taste, flavor with 
orange-peel, and bake. 

Suet Pudding. 

Half a pound of suet chopped fine, half a pound of wheat 
flour, two eggs well beaten, a piece of fresh butter ; mix 
well together; add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, salt, and a 
little rosewater ; moisten into a paste with cream ; butter 
the ditih, put in the pudding, and bake. 

Sauce to taste. 

Indian Suet Pudding. 

Half a pound of Indian-meal ; pour upon it some boiling 
water ; stir continually until it is all moistened ; add half a 
pound of suet, chopped, half a teacupful of molasses, half a 
teaspoonfal of salt, same of soda ; tie tightly in a pudding- 
bag ; boil two hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 

Indian Pudding Baked or Boiled. 

Stir into a pint of milk, scalding, sufficient Indian-meal 
to make a batter; when cool, add two eggs well beaten, 
tablespoonful of butter, same of molasses, teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, three tablespoonfuls of flour, two teaspoonfula 
of baking powder or yeast ; mix well together, and bake or 
boil in a bag. 

Serve with a rich sauce. 

Indian Fbuit Pudding. 
One quart scalding milk, sufficient meal to make a battery 
when cool, add half a pound of finely chopped suet, three 
eggs well beaten, some salt, teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in milk, or three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder ; beat well together ; add cher« 
ries or other fruit; tie carefully in a floured bag, and boii 
about two hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 



puDDmos. 199 

Steamed Indian Pudding. 

Two cups sweet milk, tablespoonful of molasses, two eggs 
well beaten, one teaspoonful of soda, two cups Indian-meal, 
one cup of flour, one cup dried cherries, currants, or any 
other fruit ; pour the batter into a tin dish well buttered, 
set into a steamer, and cook one hour and a half. Serve 
hot with wine or brandy sauce. 

Plain Indian Pudding. 

Scald a cupful and a half of yellow meal ; when cool, 
add a pint of milk and two eggs, half a pound of finely 
chopped suet, teacupful of molasses or syi'up, teaspoonful of 
ginger, teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved ; beat well together, and bake for one hour 
and a half in a moderate oven ; or boil in a bag. 

Indian Pudding Baked or Boiled with Meat. 

Scald a pint of Indian-meal ; when cool, beat in one or 
two eggs ; make it into two or three round balls ; boil it 
in floured bags, with beef and pork ; put it in when the 
meat is about half done ; it will boil in about half an hour. 
When you dish the meat, let the pudding remain in the 
water to keep hot; serve it with sauce made of butter, 
syrup, spice, and a little brandy, if you wish. Or can be 
baked in a pan under beef. 

Corn Pudding. 
Grate two dozen ears of corn ; add one pint of milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, half teaspoonful of salt, two eggs well 
beaten ; mix all well together. Bake about one hour and 
a half. 

Simple Pudding. 

One quart of boiled milk ; soak in it for half an hour 
some small pieces of bread ; add tablespoonful of Indian^ 



200 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

meal, small piece of bntter; sweeten well, add nutmeg and 
other spioes. Bake about twenty minutes. 

Batter Pudding. 

One pint of flour, a cup of cream, a cup of sugar, three eggs 
well beaten, half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three 
teaspoonf uls of baking powder ; beat well, bake for one hour 
in a moderate oven. Serve with wine sauce. 

Another Method. 

Sift eight ounces of wheat-flour ; add a quarter of an ounce 
of salt ; beat four eggs, yolks and whites separately ; add the 
eggs and sufficient milk to make a batter as thick as cream ; 
beat it veiy smooth, put it in a buttered mould, and tie a cloth 
over it; let it boil two hours. Serve with wine or brandy 
sauce. 

COTTAGB PUDDINO. 

Mix well together three cupfuls of flour, two eggs well 
beaten, a cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, three tea- 
spoonfuls of yeast powder, a cupful of sugar. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, and serve with sherry-wine sauce. 

Wheat Puddino. 

Five eggs well beateo, three or four cups of milk, one cup 
of cream, a little salt ; stir in sufficient flour to make a batter; 
beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately ; mix all to- 
gether, put it in a floured bag, or buttered mould ; have boil- 
ing water. Boil for one hour and a half, turn it several times. 

Fabina Pudding. 

Boil one quart of milk, stir in four tablespoonfuls of 
farina, let it cool ; stir in two well-beaten eggs, whites and 
yolks sepai-ately ; one spoonful of butter^ a little salt and es- 



PUDDINGS. 201 

Bence of vanilla; put in a deep buttered pan and bake; 
serve with a rich sauce. It looks very pretty and whit» to 
add only the whites of the eggs. 

Quaking Pudding. 

Gitite a small loaf of stale bread; add to it six well- 
beaten eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, half a table- 
spoonful of rice-floiir ; stir into it a quart of milk ; add es- 
sence of lemon and nutmeg ; boil two hours, or bake in a 
buttered pan. Serve with wine or brandy sauce ; boil in a 
mould, tied in a cloth. 

Potato Pudding. 

Half a pound boiled potatoes mashed fine, half a pound of 
bread-crumbs, half a pound of chopped suet, two eggs well 
beaten, whites and yolks separately ; mix with milk ; beat 
all thoroughly; boil four hours in a buttered mould or 
floured bag. 

Potato Pudding — ^Whitb ob Sweet. 

Beat together till light half a pound of butter and half a 
pound of white sugar ; add half a pound of potatoes boiled 
and mashed ; whisk five eggs until thick ; stir them in gradu- 
ally ; then add two tablespoonfuls of brandy and the same 
of rosewater; add a little salt and milk to moisten the 
potatoes ; mix all well together, and set in a oool place. This 
will make three or four puddings; line the plates with 
good paste ; put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 
Three good-sized sweet potatoes ; boil them over steam ; 
take off the skin and mash them ; beat two eggs in a pint 
of milk ; add them to the potatoes ; beat them thoroughly 
together ; bake them with or without paste, in a moderate 
oven. Serve hot with wine sauce. 



202 HAND-BOOK FOfi THE KITCHEN. 

Sago Puddino. 

Boil in one quart of milk two tablespoonfuls of sagj ; 
add some cinnamon and lemon-peel ; "when cold, add eight 
®ggB well beaten, whites and yolks separately, sugar and 
nutmeg to taste. Bake in buttered pans. 

Bread Pudding Boiled. 

Half a pound of stale bread-crumbs, four ounces sugar, 
some chopped leaion-peel, five eggs beaten to a cream, two 
and a half pints of milk ; boil one hour in a battered mould 
or floured bag. 

Bread Pudding Baked. 

One quart boiled milk ; break in bread while hot; make 
fine with a spoon ; add two eggs well beaten, one spoonfa] 
of butter ; flavor and sweeten to taste. Bake in a buttered 
pan. Serve with a rich sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Bread Pudding. 

In one quart of milk or cream boil a blade or two of 
mace, a little cinnamon, a few whole cloves, a little nutmeg, 
some sugar and a little salt ; break in some crust or dry 
bread, and let it stand until cold ; rub the bread through a 
colander ; add the yolks of six eggs well beaten ; stir well 
together, butter your dish, put in the pudding, tie over it a 
cloth, boil a little more than an hour. Serve with sauce. 

Bread Pudding with Fruit. 

Boil a pint of milk ; cut some bread in squares about half 
an inch thick, soak them in the milk ; pick about half a pound 
of fine raisins, put them in a two quart pudding-pan, but- 
tered ; put the soaked bread in ; beat three eggs into a pint 
of milk, pour it over the bread ; bake it. When done, 
take it from the oven, let it stand about ten minutes to cool ; 



J 



PUDDINGS. 20 



2 



turn it out into a deep dish, pour some nice sauce over the 
top. Serve hot with rich sauce. 

Rice Pudding with Peaches, Pineapple, etc. 

Use delicate boiled rice ; butter a mould ; put in alternate 
layers of peach and rice. When moulded, pour in a dish. 
Serve with custard. 

Sliced Bread Pudding with Fbuit. 

Cut the crust from a fresh loaf of bread, cut the loaf in 
thin slices, butter each slice, lay a slice in the bottom of 
your pudding-dish, and strew over with dried currants ; 
then put in another slice of bread and more currants, until 
your dish is nearly filled ; beat two or three eggs into a 
pint of milk ; pour it over the pudding, let it stand two 
hours, then put it in the oven to bake. Serve with wine 
or brandy sauce. If to be served cold, add some sugar to 
the milk and eg'g^ and pour good brandy over it. When to 
be served, turn out on a dish. You must put in twice the 
quantity of milk and eggs if the pudding is large. 

Winter Pudding. 

Take the soft bread from the crust ; fill the crust with 
plums or other fruit. Tie it in a bag and boil in milk and 
water. Serve with sauce. 

Arrowroot Pudding. 

Four tablespoonfiils of sifted arrowroot ; put into a dish ; 
break in four eggs ; beat them together ; pour over it two 
cups of boiling milk ; stir briskly while you are pouring in 
the milk; if not quite thick enough, you can hold it over 
the fire, stirring constantly, until it is thick enough ; put 
it in a buttered mould, tie a cloth over it, put it in boiling 
water, let it boil about an hour. Serve with sauce. The 



204 HAKD-BOOK FOS THB KITOHEN. 

samoi with a little butter, sugar, and spice, is very nice 
baked in the oven. 

Tipsy Podding. 

Dip slices of spouge-cake in wine ; place them in a disli ; 
[)Our soft custard over ; pile light icing over with jelly. 

Arrowroot Pudding. 

Two tablespoonfuls of sifted arrowroot, one of wheat-flouTi 
one cup of milk, sugar and essence of lemon to taste ; beat 
the yulks of the eggs with the sugar, adding the lemon, and 
beat the whites to a froth; mix the flour with a little 
cold milk, boil the cup of milk and pour over it, stirring 
continually. Mix all well together, boil a little sugar to 
candy, line the buttered pan with it, turn the pan until the 
sugar is quite cold, then pour in the padding and let it steam 
half an hour. Serve with soft custard or wine sauce. 

EicB Pudding Baked. 

A tablespoonful of ground rice, a little suet, chopped 
fine; add half a pint of milk, sweeten to taste. Pour it 
into a saucepan, over a clear fire, let it remain until thick ; 
beat up an egg with four drops of essence of lemon and two 
tablespoonfuls of white wine ; add this, shake it a little, pour 
it into a buttered dish. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Rice Pudding Boiled Plain. 
Half a pound of rice nicely washed, half a pound of 
stemmed raisins, teaspoonfiil of salt ; stir them together ; tie 
in a pudding-bag, leaving room for it to swell ; boil for two 
hours. Serve with wine or brandy sauce. 

Japanese Pudding. 
Put over the fire in a clean saucepan, a teacupfnl of rioe» 
covered with water ; when the water is exhausted^ add three 



J 



PUDDINGS. 2Q5 

or four tablespoonfuls of fine white sugar and sufficient 
milk to keep it moist ; do not stir it. When perfectly ten- 
der, let it cool, add the yolks of three eggs, stirred into the 
rice. Add a little wine or extract of vanilla, make it into 
balb, put them into a glass dish, beat the whites of the eggs 
to a dry froth ; add the juice of half a lemon, and six table- 
spoonfuls of powdered white sugar ; beat it well again, and 
pour it over the balls. Serve. 

EioE Pudding Baked. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of rice, well 
washed, one teaspoonful of butter, same of salt, half a cup 
of fine white sugar ; mix well together ; bake slowly three 
hours. 

Rich Rice Pudding. 

One quart of milk, one cup of boiled rice, two or three 
eggs well beaten, one spoonful of butter ; sweeten and flavor 
to taste ; mix together, and bake. 

AnotJier Method, 

One pound of rice boiled in milk ; stir until soft ; add 
half a pound of butter, twelve eggs well beaten, sugar and 
spice to taste ; bake. Half of the quantity can be used for 
a smaller pudding. 

Rice Pudding Plain. 

One cup of rice, quart and a pint of milk, quarter of a 
pound of white sugar ; flavor with ground cinnamon, or nut- 
meg, or essence of lemon ; bake in a good oven, two or three 
hours, until stifil 

Snowballs. 

Two ounces rice, boiled, in one pint and a half sweet 
milk, little cinnamon, and fine white sugar, flavored with 
essence to taste, or wine. When the rice is tender, put it 



206 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHEN. 

in cnps, first dipped in cold water ; let them stand till cold, 

turn them out on a dish, pour a soft custard over, made of 

the yolks of three eggs ; put some jelly on the top of each 

baU. * 

Bice Fboth. 

Four ounces of rico in a pint of water to simmer ; when 

dry, add one quart of milk, three ounces of fine white sugar ; 

flavor with almond extract ; let it sinmier until perfectly 

tender ; let it get cold, beat the whites of three eggs to a 

froth, pile it on top of the rice, ornament it with red jelly 

or jam. 

Bennet Custabd. 

Wash and cut in pieces quarter of a calf's rennet; put it 
in a pint of wine ; let it stand two days. 

To one pint of milk add one teaspoonful of the wine, and 
flavor with vanilla or lemon; warm it a little, stirring 
slightly. Pour infco glasses, cups, or dish. Serve cold with 
cream and sugar. 

Floating Island. ] 

Boil one quart of milk ; beat well the yolks of six eggs, 
stir into the milk, flavor with vanilla, lemon, or rose; 
sweeten to taste. When thick, put it in a deep dish ; whip 
the whites of the eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, 
to a strong froth ; heap it upon the custard, ornament with 
red jelly, and serve cold. 

Soft Custabd. 

Boil one pint of milk, with a little lemon-peel, some small 
pieces of cinnamon ; beat the yolks of five eggs, add them to 
one pint of cream ; as soon as the milk is flavored, add some 
sugar ; put all into a saucepan ; stir it one way, while it is 
simmering, until it is thick, put in two spoonfuls of brandy 
If you have no cream, add to a quart of milk the yolks of 
eight or nine eggs. 



PUDDINGS. 207 

Another MeUwd, 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of flour in a quart of boiling milk, 
simmer five minutes ; beat in yolks of three eggs, sweeten 
to taste^ pour it over small sponge-cakes, or boiled rice, in 
a deep pudding-dish ; beat the whites of eggs and lay over 
top. 

Cup Custard Pudding. 

Two teacupfuls of flour and four of milk ; beat the yolks 
and whites of four eggs separately ; mix all well together ; 
add teaspoonful of melted butter. Bake in shaDow dish or 
cups twenty or thirty minutes. Serve hot. Wine sauce. 

Another Method. 

One quart milk, four eggs, well beaten ; sweeten and flavor 
to taste. Bake in dish or cups. 

Another Method. 

One quart new milk, eight eggs well beaten ; mix and 
strain through a fine sieve, sweeten with from five to eight 
ounces of white sugar, a little salt; line a deep dish with 
rich paste, grate nutmeg or lemon-peel over it ; or put it in 
cups and bake. 

Apple Custard. 

Pai*e, core, and parboil some apples; put into a deep 
dish ; beat eight eggs into one quart of milk, spiced to taste ; 
pour it over the apples and bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Cream Pudding. 

Beat three eggs very light ; mix with two tablespoonfuls 
flour, a little milk, six ounces sugar ; add one pint thick 
cream. Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
Beat four eggs into one quart of milk ; sweeten to taste ; 



208 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHEN. 

add a little extract vanilla ; small cocoanut gratod ; bake ir 
a battered pan, with or without paste. 

Another Method, 

Beat to a cream a quarter of a pound of butter and the 
same of sugar: whisk the whites of three eggs until stiff; 
beat into the sugar and buttc3r. Stir together, adding grad- 
ually a quarter of a pound of gi*ated nutmeg, and a table- 
spoonful of brandy. Line your plate with rich paste, put in 
the pudding, and bake in a quick oven. 

Another Method. 

One large cocoanut, grated ; beat the whites of six eggs 
with half a pound of sugar ; six ounces of butter, half a 
wineglass of rosewater ; put in a pudding-dish lined witli 
paste, or bake without paste if you wish. 

COBNSTABCH PUDDING. 

Boil one quart of milk ; stir in four tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch ; stir while simmering, until it is nearly done ; add 
the yolks of four eggs well beaten ; sweeten to taste. Stir 
it over a slow fire until it is a smooth jelly; pour it into a 
pan or mould, wet with cold water ; let it stand until per- 
fectly cold and stiff. Beat the whites of two eggs, with a 
little sugar, and flavor with vanilla ; turn the pudding into 
a dish ; pile the whites on the top ; serve with milk and 
sugar or currant jelly. Use Duryea's cornstarch. 

Cornstarch Pudding Baked. 

Five tablespoonfuls of cornstarch to one quart of milk ; 
dissolve the cornstarch in part of the milk ; heat the re* 
mainder of the milk almost to boiling; add a little salt; 
stir in the cornstarch ; boil three minutes, stirring briskly , 
let it cool, then mix in three eggs well beaten and three 



puDDmos. 209 

tablespoonfuls of sugar ; flavor to taste. Bake for half an 
hour. 

Cornstarch Pudding. 

Boil in a saucepan one quart of milk, to which add a quarter 
of a pound of cornstarch, essence of lemon, or vanilla, and 
sugar to taste ; stir while boiling ; wet a mould with cold 
water ; pour in the pudding, and let it get cold ; serve with 
wine sauce or jelly. 

Cornstarch with Frutt. 

Pare two quarts of apples, stir them in a quart of water un- 
til perfectly tender ; strain off the liquid, put it over the fire, 
and when boiling-hot, stir in three tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch; sweeten to taste; let it simmer till transparent and 
thick ; pour it into a mould, and set it in a cool place or on 
ice. Serve with milk and sugar. This can be made with 
strawberries, peaches, cranberries, or dried fruit, lemon, or 
orange. 

Pumpkin Pudding. 

Stew some pumpkin until quite tender ; press it through a 
colander ; add one pint of milk, quarter of a pound of buttei*, 
same of sugar, stir them well together ; beat eight eggs very 
light ; add to the mixture with a pint of the pumpkin, stirr- 
ing them in alternately ; mix a wineglassful of rose-water, and 
two of wine ; add to the other a teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
mace mixed, one nutmeg grated ; beat all well together ; put 
it in a buttered pudding dish, and bake three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Another Method, 

Pare and cut into small pieces three-quarters of a pound 
of pumpkin ; stir it until soft ; press it in a colander until 
dry ; put it into a pan ; add an ounce and a half of butter ; 



210 UAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

muBh it smooth ; whisk two eggs until thick, and stir in, add 
sugar to taste ; one tablespoonful of brandj and one of wine, 
a little powdered cinnamon. Line your pudding-dish with 
paste, and bake in a quick oven. 

Lehon Pudding. 

Pour half a teacup of boiled cream over three Savoy 
biscuits ; quarter of a pound of fresh butter, quarter of a 
pound of loaf sugar dissolved in half a teacup of water, yolks 
of four eggs, and the whites of two, beaten separately ; grate 
in the rind of two small lemons, and add the juice of one ; 
put a puff-paste round the dish, and bake. 

Another Method. 

Beat together until very light, quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, and the same of sugar; then add an ounce of stale 
sponge-cake grated fine; whisk two eggs until thick, and 
stir in gradually; then add the juice of one lemon, and the 
peel grated, a tablespoonful of brandy ; mix well. Line the 
dish with a rich paste and bake. 

Lemon Cream Pudding. 
Boil the rind of a lemon with one quart of milk ; strain 
and boil again ; mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with two 
tablespoonfuls of cold milk ; stir it into the boiled milk ; let 
it boil a minute ; remove it from the fire, and when cool, 
add three well-beaten eggs ; sweeten to taste ; bake in a 
good crust, in a quick oven. 

Plain Lemon Pudding. 
Juice of th):ee lemons ; the peel, gi*ated with six ounces 
of sugar, one cup of bread-crumbs ; beat the yolks of four 
eggs with the whites of two, and one ounce of butter ; beat 
all well together ; line the edge of the pan with good paste ; 
pour in the mixture, and bake thtee-quarters of an hour. 



puddings. 211 

Lemok Pudding. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of good butter, 
one glassful rose water, one lemon, one glassful of orange- 
flower water ; beat the butter and rosewater to a froth ; 
beat the sugar with two eggs; grate the yellow part of the 
rind of one lemon ; beat well together ; pour it into a but- 
tered pan lined with paste. The same ingredients with 
orange-peel, instead of lemon, can be used. Bake. 

Orange Pudding. 

Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, five eggs, 
juice of one orange ; boil the peel and pound it fine, mix 
it with the juice ; add the juice of half a lemon, half a 
glassful of brandy, wine, and rosewater. Extracts of the 
fruit will do as well. Put it in a pan lined with paste, and 
bake. 

Another Method. 

Pare off the yellow rind of six oranges ; boil the peel very 
tender, changing the water two or three times ; beat in a 
inortar ; boil quarter of a pound of crackers in some milk ; 
rub it through a colander ; add it to your peel ; add the 
yolks of six eggs, and the whites of four, a little salt, sugar 
aud nutmeg to taste, a little marrow minced fine. Bake in 
pans lined with buttered paper. 

RoLY Poly Pudding. 

Make a paste of one pound of flour, quarter of a pound 
of butter rubbed into the flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, two eggs well beaten ; moisten into paste ; roll it 
out ; put into it pie-plant cut fine, cranberries, currants, or 
any kind of fruit or jam. Close it up ; tie it in a floured 
bag ; put it in boiling water. Let it boil about an hour, oi 
make into snnall dumplings. 



213 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Two eggs beaten in a little milk, half a pound of flour, a 
little butter, tablespoonful of yeast, sufficient milk to make 
a dough ; let it rise ; when light cut it into small pieces, 
mould them to hold the fruit, put in the apple, nicely pared 
and cored ; close carefully ; boil about three-quarters of an 
hour ; wine sauce. It is better to tie each dumpling in a 
bag. 

Apple Dumplinqs with Plain Paste. 

Rub through one pound of flour two ounces of butter 
or drippings, one egg well beaten into a little milk, some 
salt, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, sufficient water to make a 
stiff paste ; let it rise ; when light, mould into shape ; put 
in the apple as above. Boil in bags. 

Another Method. 

Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into one pound of 
flour ; rub in a heaping tablespoonful of yeast powder ; add 
one egg well beaten, with sufficient milk to moisten ; peel, 
quarter, and core the apples ; take pieces of the dough, flat- 
ten them, put in each piece four quarters of an apple fitted 
together ; close the dough around, make them smooth and 
round, and drop them into boiling water over the fire. They 
will boil in about twenty minutes. Serve with a hot sauce 
made of butter and syrup, or brandy sauce. (See Sweet 
Sauces.) 

Apple Dumpling. 

To one quart of prepared flour add a teaspoonful of salt, 
a tablespoonful of lard or butter, rubbed through the flour, 
sufficient water to make a dough. Pare and core the apples, 
take dough to cover each apple, close smooth around ; drop 
into boiling water. If the apples are tender, they will boil 
in half an hour. 



PUDDINGS. 21 






Apple Chablotte. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, satLn of 
powdered white sugar, half a teaspoonful of baking powder, 
one egg, beaten in a little milk ; mix and bake in a round 
foruL When cold, scoop out the middle, leaving a good 
thickness around to prevent breaking. Take some of the 
pieces that were taken out, soak them well with wine and a 
little brandy, and put them in the cake. Slice some apples, 
boil them with sugar, lemon-peel, and a few bitter and sweet 
almonds ; put a layer of them in the cake. Place around 
the cake pieces of paste in the shape of half rounds, another 
layer of apples ; one gill of cream, flavored with lemon- 
juice and sweetened with white sugar, poured over the 
apples ; cut apple-jelly in small squares and pile up in the 
middle. 

To make the paste for the half-rounds : A quarter of a 
pound of flour, two ounces white sugar, one ounce and a half 
of butter, moisten with milk^ roll it out and cut into strips ; 
form into the shape required ; sprinkle with grated sugar. 
Bake a very light brown. 

To make the jelly : Pare, core, and slice some apples ; 
put them into a saucepan ; pour water over, and boil slowly 
for one hour and a quarter ; strain through a muslin bag ; 
have the juice very clear ; add three ounces of loaf-sugar, 
lemon-peel and juice to taste; dissolve one-third of an 
ounce of gelatine in boiling water ; add it to the juice ; let 
it simmer until well mixed ; let it cool ; when stifl* you can 
cut it in shape and place on the pudding. 

Another Method. 

Cut stale broad into thin pieces ; dip them in cream oi 
condensed milk thinned ; place them around the sides of 
the dish ; All it up with stewed apples ; sprinkle over it a 
little cinnamon, or grated lemon-peel ; lay some thin slices 



214 HAND-BOOK FOR THE XITOUEX. 

of bread on the top ; moisten mith a little cream ; brutk 
some beaten egg over the top. Bake and serve with wine 
or brandy sauoe. 

Apple Pudding Baked. 

Butter your dish, line it with bread-crumbs, then a layer 
of apples out fine ; sprinkle with white sugar, then another 
layer of bread-crumbs, one of apples and sugar, until the 
dish is filled. Oover with a thick layer of crumbs, moisten 
a little ; pour over it some fresh melted butter. 

It will bake in about an hour. Serve with sauce. 

Another Method, 

Pare, quarter, and boil until tender four large apples, in 
a little water, with the peel of a lemon, beat them fine in a 
mortar ; add the crumbs of a small roll, a quarter of a 
poimd of melted butter, the yolks of ^yq eggs, and the 
whites of three, beaten separately, juice of half a lemon ; 
sweeten to taste. Beat well together; bake in a deep 
earthen dish lined with paste. Beat the two remaining 
whites to a froth, add a little powdered sugar and some 
lemon-juice, and put in on the pudding when served. 

Another Method. 

Mix together two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound 
of pounded white sugar, a quarter of a pound of boiled 
apples, yolks of three eggs, whites of two, beaten separately, 
rind and juice of one lemon. Bake in a puff-paste for one 
hour. 

Another Method. 

Half a pound of apples, boiled and mashed ; mix with it 
half a pound of butter beaten to a cream ; while hot^ add six 
eggs well beaten, half a pound of white sugar, rinds of two 
lemons boiled. Line the bottom and sides of your pan 



PUDDINGS. 215 

irith a tliin crust. Put in the pudding, and bake fcf about 
balf an hour. 

Apple Islaitd. 

Strain through a sieve one quart of stewed apples (not 
very juicy ones) ; sweeten and flavor with fine white sugar 
and lemon. Beat the whites of six eggs to a hard froth, 
stir it into the apples slowly just before it is to be served ; 
use as little water as possible in stewing the apples. Put it 
into a glass dish, pour over it a custard made with the 
jolks of the eggs. 

Bird's Nest Pudding. 

Pai'e and quarter some tart apples; place them in a 
square tin, buttered. Make a batter of three eggs well 
beaten, half a cupful of sour milk, one cupful of sweet 
milk, teaspoonful and a half of soda, and a little salt. 
Mix all well together, thicken with flour, and pour it over 
the apples. Bake it a little more than half an hour. 

J*AN Dowdy. 

Fill a dish with stewed apples, sweetened and flavored. 
Cover with a paste made with milk ; when nearly baked, 
take ofl* the paste and break it into the apples. Place it in 
the oven, and when it becomes dry, pour over it a cupful 
of rich cream. 

Almond Pudding. 

Boil the skins of two lemons very tender ; beat them very 
fine. Beat half a pound of almonds in rosewater, half a 
pound of sugar, melt half a pound of butter ; let it stand 
until quite cool. Beat the yolks of eight eggs and the 
whites of four separately, mix them; beat all together 
with a little orange-water. Bake in a quick oven three- 
quarters of an hour. 



216 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHBK. 

Uniok PuDDnro. 

Five eggs well beaten, half a pound of flour, half a pouni 
of butter, half a pound of sugar, some raisins chopped fine. 
Pip a mould in cold water, put in the pudding, tie it up in a 
cloth, and boil three hours. 

Fig Pudding. 

Half a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of best figs, 
six ounces of suet, six ounces of brown sugar ; mince the 
suet and figs fine. Add a little salt, two beaten eggs, some 
ground nutmeg. Pip a mould in cold water, put in the 
pudding, tie a cloth around it. Boil four hours. Serve 
T/ith wine sauce. 

Berby Pudding. 

Make a batter of a pound of flour and sufi^cient water 
and teaspoonful of salt. Mix in three quarts of berries and 
half a pint of molasses. Put it in a floured bag and boil. 
Serve with sauce made of sugar, butter, brandy and grated 
nutmeg, beaten well. 

Jam Pudding. 

Line a deep dish with thin pufl'-paste ; put in any kind 
of jam, about half an inch thick ; then take the yolks of 
eight eggs and the whites of two, half a pound of melted but- 
ter, and almond flavor to taste ; beat well together, pour it 
over the jam an inch thick. Bake about an hour in a mod- 
erately heated oven. 

Mf ringue with Jam. 

Roll out some very nice puflF-paste, cut into squares tliree 
inches wide and four inches long. Put them on buttered 
tins and bake ; take them from the oven, spread them about 
half an inch thick with rich jam. Make an icing of a quar* 
ter of a pound of white sugar, the whites of three eggs, 



PUDDINGS. 217 

beat very light, and add while beating, the juice of one 
lemon. Pile the icing to a high point, put on red jelly ; 
when very light, lay it on the jam two or three inches 
thick, in a conical form ; put a little jelly on the top. Put ii 
in a quick oven a few minutes. Sponge-cake can be used 
instead of pastry. 

Flummery. 

One cup of jelly, one cup of cream, half a cup of wine ; 
boil fifteen minutes over a slow fire; stir continually; 
sweeten to taste ; add a spoonful of orange-flower or rose- 
water; put it in a mould; when cold, turn it out; pour 
over it some cream flavored to taste. 

Quince Pudding. 

Scald some quinces until tender ; pare them thin ; scrape 
off the pulp ; mix it with sugar until very thick ; add a little 
ginger and cinnamon, three or four eggs well beaten to a 
pint of cream ; stir it with the quinces ; pour into a buttered 
dish and bake. 

Citron Pudding. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, some milk, 
and the yolks of nine eggs, a glassful of brandy, half a pound 
of citron sliced thin ; bake in a very moderate oven. 

Hen's Nest. 

Take five or six small eggs ; make a hole at one end and 
empty the shells ; fill with blanc-mange ; when cold and stiff, 
cake off the shells ; pare the rind of six lemons very thin ; 
boil them until tender ; cut them in thin strips to resemble 
straw, and preserve them with sugar ; fill a deep dish half 
full of jelly ; when it is set, put the straw on in form of a 
nest and lay the eggs in it. 
10 



918 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITOHSN. 

Chbistmas Pudding. 

One pound of sifted flour, half a pound of butter, half a 
pound of chopped suet, one pound of sugar, two pounds of 
currants, two pounds of stoned raisins, one pound of sliced 
citron, four well-beaten eggs, small cup of syrup, cupful of 
sweetmeats, wineglass of brandy, one ounce of ground cin< 
namon, half an ounce of ground cloves, two nutmegs, half 
an ounce of mace, half an ounce of allspice ; eggs, butter, 
eta, beaten as for cake ; mix well, and boil in a mould or 
floured bag, four hours ; put in boiling water ; don't let it 
stop boiling until ready to dish. Serve with thick brandy 
or rum sauce. 

Another Method, 

Mince one pound of leaf suet, flour it ; wash and dry half 
a pound of currants, half a pound of stoned raisins, two eggs 
well beaten, one ou^ce of candied lemon-peel, one ounce of 
minced almonds, half a pound of sugar or a cup of syrup, 
mixed spices ; mix ; add half a pound of flour, and sufficient 
water to moisten all ; boil three hours in a floured bag or 
mould. 

Christmas Pudding. 

One pound of raisins stoned, one pound of currants washed 
and dried, one pound of moist sugar, half a cupful of molas^ 
ses, one pound of bread-crumbs, eight eggs, one pound of 
suet chopped fine, two ounces sweet almonds blanched and 
chopped fine ; mix all well together with half a pound of 
sifted flour ; cut in pieces two ounces of preserved citron, 
orange, and lemon- peel, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, 
two nutmegs grated, an eighth of an ounce of ground cloves, 
sufficient milk to make a thick batter; pour a wineglassfud 
of good brandy over the spice and fruit ; mix together and 
let it stand an hour and a half; stir occasionally ; tie the 
pudding in a cloth and boil four liours. Wine sauce. 



PUDDINGS. 2 1 9 

Poor Man's Christmas Pudding. 

Ons pound of suet minced fine, one pound of flo Ir, half a 
pound of currants well washed and dried, half a pound of 
raisins, half an ounce of ground cloves, one ounce of ground 
cinnamon, one nutmeg grated, teaspoonful of salt, spoonful 
of baking powder ; mix well ; moisten with water ; tie in a 
bag, and boil steadily two hours ; serve with sauce ; you can 
add a cup of syrup and one e^ beaten. 

Family Fruit Pudding. 

One pound of raisins stoned, same of currants picked, 
washed, dried, and floured, one pound of suet chopped, three 
eggs, well beaten, one teacupful of milk, one teacupful of 
molasses, half a cupful of brown sugar, two spoonfuls of 
ground cinnamon, one spoonful of ground cloves, a teaspoon- 
ful of ground mace ; stir in sufficient flour to make a stiff 
batter ; boil three hours in a floured bag. 

Eve's Pudding. 

Half a pound of raisins, half a pound of currants well 
washed, dried, and floured, half a pound of suet chopped flne, 
three eggs well-beaten, half a teacupful of milk, small cupful 
of molasses, teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, and 
mace, three cups of flour, a dozen apples pared, cored, and 
chopped fine ; beat all well together ; boil two hours in a 
floured bag. Serve with brandy sauce. (See Sauces.) 

FRITTERS. 

Apple Fritters. 

Half a pound of flour, teaspoonful and a half of baking- 
powder, one egg well beaten, stir well ; sufficient milk or 
water to make a batter ; slice the apples and stir them in, 
fry them in hot fat; when done, while hot, sprinkle over 
them some powdered white sugar and ground cinnamon. 



220 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHSN. 

Tekebiffe Fbitters. 

Mix together, one pint of milk, two eggs well beaten, 
some sugar, nutmeg and mashed potatoes. Fry in hot 
lard. 

Japanese Fbittebs. 

Cut a round loaf of bread into slices half an inch thick ; 
toast them a light brown, then soak them well in soft cos- 
tard ; frj them in butter. 

Fbittebs with Jelly. 

Beat whites and yolks separately of four eggs ; add to 
one quart of milk ; beat in a cupful of sugar, sufficient 
flour to make a rather thick batter, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a teaspoonful of yeast powder ; beat all very light ; fry 
them in thin cakes in an omelet-pan; spread them with 
jelly as you take them from the pan ; place one over the 
other ; cut them as pie, when you serve. 

Snow Fbittebs. 

Stir together sufficient flour and milk, with some salt, to 
make a thick batter; add a teacupful of newly fallen snow 
to every pint of milk used in making the batter ; have 
some fat hot in a pan ; drop the batter in with a spoon * 
■erve with sugar and wine, or with sugar and lomon-juioe. 



PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 



To make good pastry, good materials must be used. But- 
ter, flour, baking powder, sweet lard, or carefully prepared 
drippings. What is generally called " cooking butter," is 
unhealthy, and makes pastry anything but a luxury. Keep 
the " shortening " cool and hard ; either sift the flour, or beat 
it with a spoon or broad fork to make it light and free from 
lumps. 

Plain Pastby fob Tabts. 

Bub well together half a pound of butter, dripping, or lard, 
and one pound of flour ; roll thin and spread on buttered pie- 
dishes ; put in the fruit ; roll out more paste on a floured 
boardy cut it into strips with a paste-cutter or knife ; cross 
the strips over the top of the fruit ; cut a strip about an inch 
wide, place it around the edge of the dish. 

Light Cbust. 

Half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of shortening, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder ; rub the shortening through 



229 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHKN. 

the floor ; beat in the powder ; add sufficient water to 
make a stiff paste. 

Paste. 

One pound ice-cold butter, one pound of sifted flour; 
cut the butter in slices ; rub them through the flour ; add 
sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste ; roll thin ; cover 
or line your pie-dishes, till with fruit ; cut top crust, and 
bake in moderate oven. 

Sweet Paste. 

Half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of good butter, 
cut in thin slices and rubbed through the flour ; add two 
ounces sifted sugar ; beat an egg into a little ice-water, and 
add sufficient to make a stiff paste ; knead well together, 
and roll thin ; use for tarts or acid fruit pies. 

Rich Paste. 

One pound of butter, one pound of flour ; cut the but- 
ter in thin slices, and rub it into the flour; beat one egg 
with a little ice-water, and add sufficient to make a stiff 
paste. Flour your board and rolling-pin; roll out the 
paste thin, and spread it on buttered pie-disbes ; put in the 
fruit, custard, or whatever you intend to use ; cover with 
pastry and bake in a moderately quick oven. 

Rich Pufp-paste. 

One pound of ice-cold butter, one pound of sifted flour ; 
cut the butter in slices, rub it with a knife through the 
flour; add one well-beaten egg to sufficient ice- water to 
make a stiff paste ; mould it well ; set it to cool and nse, 
for about ten minutes. 

Roll it on a floured board, and spread pieces of buttet 
over with a knife ; dredge a little flour over it ; roll it up ; 
roll it out again ; spread with butter, and dredge with 



PIES, PA8TBT, BTa 223 

floury roll it up; then roll out again, butter and dredge; 
let it cool, and use for pies, tarts, custards, etc. 

Apple Pie oe Tart. 

Take fine, tender, acid apples; pare, core, and stew them; 
sweeten to taste ; add a little nutmeg ; when cool, line your 
pie-dishes with a good paste ; put in the apples, put a nice 
paste over the top, or cross the top w*ith strips of rich paste ; 
put a strip of paste an inch wide round the edge ; bake in 
moderate oven. 

Rich Apple Tart or Pie. 

Take tender, acid apples ; pare them, core and cut in thin 
slices ; line your dish with pastry, put in the slices, in lay- 
ers, with sugar, mace, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and grated 
lemon-peel between. 

Cover with puff-paste, or cut the paste in strips or figures ; 
a wineglass of white wine may be added. 

Dried Apple Pie. 

Wash the apples carefully ; soak them several hours, boil 
until tender; add some slices of lemon, or a few dried 
peaches, to flavor them ; sweeten to taste. Bake in plain or 
rich paste. 

Apple Custard. 

Scald one dozen tender, acid apples ; let them cool, pare 
tliem, beat them to a pulp : mix with them three or four 
woU-beaten eggs; sweeten, and flavor to taste with nut* 
meg; add a tablespoonful of melted butter; cover or line 
your dishes with paste; make into pies or tarts. . 

Almond Pie. 

Beat one pound of blanched almonds with one pound of 
sugar; moisten with rosewater; add some grated bread, a 



224 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITOHEK. 

little nutmeg, cream colored with water strained from boiled 
spinach ; beat all together ; bake in rich paste. The mix- 
ture should be an inch deep in the pans. 

Custard Pib, Plain. 

Beat four eggs very light to one quart of milk; sweeten 
to taste ; add a little nutmeg ; line your buttered tins with 
a good paste, pour in the mixture, about an inch deep ; bake 
in a quick oven ; when stiff, take them out ; be sure to have 
them well baked from the bottom. 

CusTABD Pie, Eich. 

Beat six eggs very light ; add them to one quart of milk, 
sweeten to taste; flavor with nutmeg and vanilla; line your 
pie-dishes with rich pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake 
in a moderately quick oven until the custard stiffens. This 
will make two pies. 

Chocolate Custabd Pie. 

Simmer one quart of milk, add a quarter of a pound Ba- 
ker's chocolate, grated ; sweeten to taste ; beat in four well- 
beaten eggs ; line deep pie-pans with rich paste, pour in the 
mixture. Bake in moderately quick oven. 

Chocolate Pie, Rich. 

To one pint of boiling milk add one tablespoonful of rice- 
flour, the yolks of Ave eggs well beaten, a little salt, one 
pint of cream ; sweeten to taste ; quarter of a pound grated 
chocolate (Baker's) well dried ; let them boil, stirring ; let 
it cool. 

line deep buttered tins, pour in the mixture, and bake. 

Chocolate M^rinque. 
To one quart boiling milk add half an ounce of isinglass 
dissolved in hot virater ; add half a pound of Baker's choco 



PIES, PASTEY, ETC. 225 

late, grated ; sweeten; simmer until it becomes a rich jelly. 
Stir while boiling, line buttered pans with rich paste, pour 
in the mixture, bake until the pastry is cooked, then let it 
cool ; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten ; 
spread it over the pies with a knife ; bake a light brown. 

Cbeam Pies. 

To one quart of boiling milk add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour ; beat in two well-beaten eggs, flavor with extract of 
vanilla (Spencer's is best) ; sweeten to taste ; bake in plain 
or rich pastry. Use other flavor if you wish. 

Another Method, 

To one quart of boiUng milk add two tablespoonfuls of 
Duryea's cornstarch; sweeten to taste, flavor to suit. 
Bake in plain or rich paste. 

Cherry Pie. 

Line your buttered tin with rich paste, fill with nicely 
picked cherries, sprinkle with sugar. Cover with paste, 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Cherry Tart. 

Wash and stone the cherries; add a quarter as many 
picked as washed currants ; line your dish (a deep one is 
best) with rich paste ; put in a layer of fruit, sprinkle with 
sugar, another layer of fruit, then sugar ; put strips of paste 
across the top, a strip around the edge, bake. 

Currant Tart or Pie. 

Line your dish with sweet pastry ; put in a thick layer 

of currants ;* sprinkle with sugar ; then more currants and 

sugar until the dish is full ; cover with pufl'-paste or make 

into tarts. 

10* 



926 tf AND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHKIf. 

COCOANUT JflE. 

One quart of milk, four well-beaten eggs, one grated cocoa> 
nut ; sweeten to taste ; line your dish with a good paste ; put 
in the mixture ; bake in a moderate o /en. 

Fruit Pies. 

All are made in the same manner. Either stew the fruit, 
or put it in the paste without cooking. Pies are very nice 
made with jam or preserves. 

Lemon Pies. 

Beat together the juice and grated rind of two lemons, 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter ; line your buttered pie- 
dish with pastry ; pour in the mixture ; cover with paste ; 
bake quickly ; when cool, beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth ; sweeten with white sugar ; spread over the pie ; 
put it in the oven to brown. 

Orange Pie. 

Peel the oranges; slice them thin; take out the seeds; 
line a deep pie-dish with nice paste; put in alternate layers 
of orange and sugar until the dish is full ; cover with thin 
paste, as tarts, or not. 

Pineapple Pie. 

Take off the skin and chop the fruit very fine, or grate 
it ; sweeten to taste ; line your dish with puff-paste ; put 
in the fruit ; cover as pie or tart, and bake. 

Peach Pie. 

Peel the peaches and cut them in slices ; line your deep 
dish (buttered) with puff-paste; put in the fruit; cover 
with sugar; cover with a thin paste and bake quickly. 



J 



. PIES, PASTRY, ETC. 227 

You can take out the pitH and put the peaches in without 
slicing. 

Dried Peach or Other Fruit 

Must be stewed first, then put into a good plain crust, 
wifch a richer paste cover. 

Plum Pie. 

Wash and stew the plums in small quantity of water ; 
sweeten to taste ; line the buttered tins with paste ; fill 
with the fruit and bake. 

Pear Pie. 

Pears must be peeled, cored, and stewed until tender; 
sweetened and baked in a rich paste. 

Quince Tart. 

Make a syrup of water and sugar ; skim ; put into it a 
few preserved quinces; when clear, put the quinces into 
puff-paste, cover with strips of paste, or cover entirely; 
when baked, lift up the top, put in tiie syrup ; ice it. 

Ehubarb Pie. 

Skin and cut the rhubarb small ; stew in a little water ; 
sweeten ; put it into good paste and bake. 

Pumpkin Pie or Squash. 

To one quart of milk add three or four well-beaten eggs, 
five tablespoonfuls of boiled pumpkin, a little essence oi 
lemon, ground cinnamon and ginger ; line a buttered dish 
with good paste ; bake without a cover. 

The ginger may be left out. 

Tomato Pie, Green. 

Poor boiling water over the tomatoes ; strip off the skins ; 
slioe them ; put good paste in deep pans or dishes ; put in 



228 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

the tomatoes ; sprinkle over them sugar and a little ginger, 
lemon-juice and grated peel; cover with thick crust; hake 
slowly one hour. 

Tomato Pie, Eipe. 

Stew the tomatoes ; sweeten with syrup, add a little hut< 
ter ; line a huttei^ed dish with good paste ; put in the toma- 
toes ; cover and bake. 

Strawberry Fie. 

Line a buttered dish with delicate pastry; put in the 
berries ; sprinkle with sugar ; add a little water ; cover 
with pastry ; bake quickly ; serve cool. 

For Meringue. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of fine white sugar; spread the meringue 
over the top of your pie smoothly with a knife ; put it in 
the oven to brown slightly. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 
Make shortcake with half a pound of prepared flour, 
naif a pound of good butter, rubbed together; moisten 
with milk ; knead it ; roll it out about an inch thick, and 
bake on buttered tins the size you wish ; when done, split 
them open ; spread butter on one half ; sprinkle on sugar ; 
fill with strawberries ; spread with sugar ; put on the other 
piece ; put it in the oven to melt a little. 

Marrow Tarts. 
Stew three pippins ; mash to a pulp. Mix in the yolks 
of three eggs, boiled, two ounces of marrow, sugar, cinna- 
mon, citron, one ounce, chopped fine, minced orange-peel, 
little salt, juice of a lemon. Beat thoroughly ; line patty- 
pans with paste ; put in the mixture. Cover, and baka 
slowly. 



pies, pastby, eto. 229 

Mince Pies. 

Three pounds of pippins, chopped, two pounds of dried 
currants, one pound of stoned raisins, half a pound of beef 
suet, chopped fine, two pounds of minced beef, juice and 
grated peel of two lemons, half a pint of sweet wine, one gill 
of brandy, half an ounce of cinnamon, cloves, allspice. Mix 
thoroughly. Bake in deep pans, lined and covered with 
rich pastry. 

Mince Pie. 

Chop one pound of tender boiled beef, three pounds of 
good apples, a quarter of a pound of minced suet, a tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, half a teaspoonful of ground 
cloves, allspice, mace, orange-peel chopped, half a pound of 
stoned raisins, half a pound of dried currants ; sweeten to 
fcaste ; a wineglassful of sherry wine ; sufficient sweet cider 
to moisten the whole. 

Line deep pie-dishes with rich pastry, put in the mixture| 
and bake in a good oven. 



SWEET SAUCES. 



Observations. 

A great deal of care should be taken in making saacea. 
XTse thick stew-pans, which must be very clean. 

Apple Sauce for Puddings. 

Bake the apples ; take off the skins, and beat the pulp 
with a tablespoonful or more of milk and the yolk of an 
egg. Beat the white and pour it over the top. 

Apple Sauce for Pies. 

Pare, core, and slice the apples ; stew them in a little 
water and a little lemon-peel. When done, take out the 
peel, add a small piece of butter, and sweeten to taste. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Dissolve one pound of sugar in a little water ; let it boil 
ten minutes ; skim well. Add one pound of cranberries, 
and boil slowly, until quite soft. 

Sauce for Maigre Plum Pudding. 

Molt five ounces of butter. Add a wineglassful of 
brandy and an ounce of white powdered sugar. Mix all 
well together. 

Brandy Sauce. 

Beat a spoonful of flour with a spoonful of butter yetf 
light. Add a teacupful of sugar. Stir in boiling water of 



BWEET SAUCES. S31 

n ilk until as thick as cream. Grate in half a nutmeg. 
Simmer ; add a gill of brandy, just before you serve. You 
can use half wine. 

Sauck for Plum Pudding. 

Mix the yolks of three eggs with two spoonfuls of sifted 
sugar and butter, mixed. Add some boiling cream, stir it 
over the fire until of the right consistency, then add a 
wineglassful of brandy. 

Sweet Sauce. 

Put some cinnamon in a saucepan, with just sufficient 
water to cover it ; let it boil up twice ; then add two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a gill of white wine. 
Boil up once. Stiuin and serve hot. 

Wine Sauce. 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of butter with a cup of sugar. 
Add the white of an egg, and beat it perfectly light. Adci 
while beating .half a grated nutmeg and a glass of wine. 

Another Method, 

Beat light a tablespoonful of butter with a cupful of 
sugar ; beat in a teaspoonful of flour. Add a cupful of 
boiling water, half a nutmeg, grated. Let it simmer. Just 
before serving, add a glassful of wine. 

Another Method, 

Dissolve half a pound of sugar in a pint of boiling water ; 
add some imground cinnamon, three cloves, juice of a lemoTL. 
Simmer about ten minutes; strain; add a gill of sherry 
wine, or more if you wish. 



232 uand-book fob the kitchen. 

Habd Sauce. 

Beat two ounces of butter with a cupful of sugar, some 
grated nutmeg, and the white of an egg beaten light. You 
can add a little wine. 

Habd Lemon Sauce. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter beaten with a cupful of 
white su^ar and the white of an egg, the pulp of a lemon 
chopped. Beat until white and stiff. 

Soft Lemon Sauce. 

To a pint of water add a tablespoonful of flour, two 
tablpspoonfiils of butter, and a cupful of sugar. Simmer 
until clear, then add the pulp of a lemon chopped. Let it 
keep hot until you serve. 

Chocolate Paste. 

One egg beaten into a cup of milk, one cup of sugar, six 
large spoonfuls of grated chocolate. Flavor with vanilla. 
Simmer until thick. Let it cool, and serve with sponge- 
cake. 

Whipped Cbeah Sauce. 

Take a pint of whipped cream ; beat the cream with a 
silver fork or egg-beater ; as it thickens take it off with a 
spoon and continue until you have a pile of stiff cream. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, adding, while 
beating, three spoonfuls of pulverized sugar ; beat this with 
the cream, and flavor with vanilla, wine, or lemon. For anj 
kind of pudding. 

Fbuit Sauces — ^Wintee. 
In winter, simmer the juice of canned fruits of any kind, 
thicken with a little cornstarch and add sufficient sugar to 
make a rich syrup ; put in the fruit and heat all together. 



SWEET SAU0E8. 233 

SuMMEB Fbuit Sauces. 

Make a rich sauce with boiling water, with sufficient com* 
starch to make a jelly ; add white sugar and a little butter. 
While hot, put in your fruit and simmer until the ;uice ia 
extracted. Strawberries, plums, peaches, cherries, currants, 
gooseberries, etc. Be sure to have a clear, rich sauce first 



CAKES. 



Observations. 

Before making cake, have eyerjthing ready to use. Bnti> 
ter your pans, grate the nutmegs, and squeeze the lemons. 
Break the eggs separately, for fear of having a bad one, and 
always beat the yolks and whites separately. Have the 
flour sifted if necessary. Mix the cake in a wooden or 
earthen vessel, not in tin. Have the soda rolled and sifted, 
and dissolved in the milk or water you use in mixing the 
cake. It is best to let the eggs lie for some time in cold 
water before breaking them. When you use cream or 
sour milk, add half of it when half the flour is mixed in ; 
then add the remainder of the flour, and then the soda dis- 
solved in the rest of the milk. Then add the other ingre- 
dients. In warm weather it is best to stir the cake with a 
wooden spoon. In cold weather the butter must be soft- 
ened, but not melted. When you have cake that requires 
long baking, you must line your pans with buttered white 
paper. 

In beating the whites of the eggs, put them into a flat 
dish, and beat them with a double wire egg-beater ; beat 
them the whole length of the dish, and in a cool place. Do 
not let them stand one minute after you commence beating, 
but continue until they are stiflT. 

In Frying Cakes, — ^When the fat is hot enough, it will 
oease bubbling. If the heat is right, the dough will rise 



CAKES. * 235 

yery soon to the top of the fat ; it will swell, and the under- 
side become brown immediately. Then turn them, and brown 
the other side ; it is best to turn them several times. As soon 
as well browned on both sides, break one open to judge if 
well cooked. 

Baking powder is safe to use in biscuit, cake, or bread. It 
is better than soda, except with sour milk, or to sweeten acid 
dough or batter. 

GiNGEB-SNAFS. 

One pound of flour, half a pint of molasses, half a pound 
of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed together, 
half an ounce of best prepared ginger, a little essence of 
lemon, half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in warm water or 
milk ; roll thin, cut into small forms, and bake on buttered 
tins. 

Another Method, 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, beaten well 
together; add half a pint of molasses, half a teacupful of 
ginger, a pound and a half of flour ; mix well together ; roll 
thin, cut in small forms, and bake on buttered tins in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Another Method, 

Three and a half pounds of flour, one pint of molasses, half 
a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of butter, an ounce of 
ginger, half a gill of water, a teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in water. Mix well together ; roll out, and bake as before. 

SnOED GiNGEB-SNAPS. 

One pound and a quarter of flour, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pint of molasses, six ounces of butter, half an ounce of 
ground ginger, half an ounce of allspice. Mix well, and bake 
as above. 



936 HAKII-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEK. 

Ginger-nuts. 

A quarter of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pouud of 
butter, gill of molasses, tablespoonful in which you dis- 
solve half a teaspoonful of soda, spoonful of best ginger ; 
mix into a stiff paste ; roll out thin ; cut into cakes with a 
small teacup. Bake quickly. 

Rich Sweetmeat Ginger-nuts. 

Half a pint of molasses, quarter of a pound of melted 
butter, one pound of brown sugar. Beat well together ; 
add an ounce of candied orange-peel, a quarter of an ounce 
of candied lemon-peel ; cut into small pieces half an ounce 
of pounded coriander seed, same of caraway seeds. Beat in 
an egg sufficient flour to make a paste. Make into nuts and 
bake on tins in a quick oven. 

Ginger Cookies. 

Eight ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, four ounces 
of sifted sugar, half an ounce of ginger; beat in an egg, roll 
out thin and cut in small pieces, and cook them on buttered 
tins, in a moderate oven. 

Family Ginger Bread. 

Four cups of molasses, two cupfuls of boiling water, four 
teaspoonfuls of soda, small piece of butter, sufficient flour 
to make a stiff paste ; roll out and bake in buttered pans ; 
add ginger to taste. 

Lemon Ginger Bread. 

Grate the rinds of two or three lemons, add the juice to 
a glassful of brandy ; mix the grated rind with one pound 
of flour ; mix in a cupful of molasses half a pound of melted 
butter ; add the lemon-juice and brandy, half an ounce of 
ground ginger, quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper. 



J 



OAKss. • 237 

Soft Ginger ^sead. 

A teacupfiil and a half of molasses, cupful of buttermilk, 
half a cupful of butter, half a tablespoonful of coriander 
seed, one egg, sufficient flour to make a stiff batter ; put it in 
buttered or floured pans, and bake quickly. 

Another Method, 

One pint of molasses, tablespoonful of butter, one egg, 
cupful of milk, two tablespoonful s of ginger, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, and flour sufficient to make a stiff 
batter ; bake in buttered or floured tins. 

Soft Molasses Cake. 

One cupful of syrup, half a cup of butter, half a cupful 
of milk or water, teaspoonful of ginger, a little extract of 
lemon, one egg, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder ; flour 
enough for a stiff batter ; put it in a buttered pan and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

EUSKS. 

Three teacupfuls of warm milk, small teacupful of yeast 
and one of brown sugar ; sufficient flour for a thick batter. 
Let it stand until the next morning. Melt a cupful of but- 
ter, beat with it a cupful of sugar, and add to the mixture a 
nutmeg grated, a very little bread soda, and sufficient flour 
to mould it smooth. Let it lise again, and when light, roll 
it out and cut as for biscuit; put them on tins, and let them 
rise again ; bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. This is 
nice baked in a loaf with about one pound of raisins in it. 

Rusks. 

Beat three eggs very light, add a large cupful of sugar, 
beating continually ; two ounces of butter, beaten to a cream ; 
half a gill of yeast, tumblerful of milk, and sufficient flour 



23S HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITCHEN. 

to make a dough ; grated nutmeg. Lei it rise oyeniig.it; 
roll it out, cut in. squareSy put ihem on buttered tins, let 
them rise again, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

KiBBOK Biscuit. 

Two and a quarter pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, 
one pound of sugar rubbed with the butter, three eggs well 
beaten, half a gill of milk ; flavor with mace and oil of 
lemon ; pass them through a pastry syringe, and cut them in 
i/aapes. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Lemok Biscuit. 

One and three-quarters of a pound of sugar, two pounds 
of flour, quarter of an ounce of soda, half a pound of suet 
chopped fine ; moisten with milk, flavor with oil of lemon ; 
cut into small cakes, put them on buttered tins, and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

Whigs. 

Quarter of a pound of fresh butter, quarter of a pound of 
sugar, three eggs well beaten, one pound of flour, half a 
pint of milk, half a gill of yeast, a little salt. Melt the but- 
ter in the milk, and pour it into tjie flour ; beat the sugar 
and eggs together, and stir them in. Add the yeast last ; 
let them stand to rise and mix the whole thoroughly together. 
Bake in small pans or muffin-rings. 

Cracknels. 

Two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, rub 
well together ; five ounces of sugar and five eggs well beaten; 
mix all into a good dough, roll it out to an eighth of an inch 
thickness, cut it with a cutter in the form of an oak-leaf 
have ready a pot of boiling water, and one of cold, drop 
them in the hot water, and let them remain until they come to 



CAKES. 284 

the top ; then take them out and put them in the cold water ; 
let them remain until cold, take them out, put them on tins, 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

Orange Biscuit. 

Put into a mortar the grated rind of an orange, six eggs 
well beaten, quarter of a pound of flour, three-quarters of a 
|K>und of powdered sugar ; beat all to a good paste, put it 
in buttered rings or pans, and bake. 

Savory Biscuit. 

Beat the whites and yolks of four eggs separately, ther 
beat them together until very light ; add gradually half a 
pound of fine loaf-sugar, beating continually ; a little essence 
of lemon ; beat in one pound of flour ; beat all well together ; 
make it into oval cakes, and lay them on buttered paper ; 
grate sugar over them, and bake quickly in a hot oven. 

SwKET Shortcakes. 

Half a pound of butter, six ounces of finely powdered 
loaf-sugar, one pound of flour, and two eggs ; rub the butter 
and sugar well into the flour ; make it into a stiff paste, with 
the eggs, well beaten ; roll it out thin, and cut into cakes ; 
pinch the edges, and bake on buttered tins; you can put 
candied peel or small pieces of citron and caraway seeds on 
top. 

Bath Buns. 

Two pounds of flour, three eggs, a little more than half a 
pint of milk, half a gill of brewers' yeast ; warm the milk ; 
beat all together. Let them rise, then add six ounces oi 
butter, half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, quarter of a 
pound of citron cut fine. Make into cakes ; butter youf 
pans, and bake in a moderate oven. 



340 BAND-BOOK FOB THB KTICHES. 

Puffs. 

Ons pound of flour, eighteen eggs, one pint and a half d( 
water, three^uarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of 
sugar. Boil the water ; beat in the flour ; add the sugar 
and butter, beating it well ; when cool, add the eggs, well 
beaten, yolks and whites separately. Drop with a large 
spoon on buttered tins. Bake in a quick oven. 

Lemon Bises. 

l^ine eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; grate the 
rinds of eighteen lemons ; add a spoonful of double-refined 
sugar, sifted. Lay a wet sheet of white paper on tin ; put the 
mixture in cones on the paper ; sift fine white sugar over 
them, and bake in a moderate oven. When they are a little 
brown on top, they are baked suf&ciently. Take them off 
the paper ; put two together by the bottoms, and let them 
dry in a cool oven. 

Chocolate Drops. 

Scrape one- ounce of chocolate to one pound of sugar ; 
moisten it to a paste ; put them on paper, and let them hard- 
en in a moderate oven. 

Sally Lunn. 

A pint of milk, a gill of yeast, sufficient flour to make a 
batter. Cover it up, and let it- stand one hour. Beat two 
ounces of sugar, with four eggs, quarter of a pound of but- 
ter, beaten with some flour : add to the milk the other arti 
cles, with sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. When 
thoroughly mixed, let it stand another hour to rise. Make 
into cakes on tins, or in small pans. Let them stand a 
short time to rise. Bake. 

Plain Sally Lunn. 
To one quart of milk ; beat three eggs, whites and yolki 



OAKES. 241 

aeparatelj, quarter of a pound of butter, sufficient yeast tc 
make it light ; stir in flour to make a batter. When light 
pour into buttered tins, and bake. 

Spanish Buns. 

Half a pint of bread-sponge, one pint of milk, five eggs 
well beaten, one pound of butter, one and a half pounds of 
sugar, one ounce of cinnamon. Beat well together ; roll it 
out ; cut into cakes, and bake on a floured tin. 

Hot Cross Buns. 

Rub together a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two 
pounds of flour ; mix with it a quarter of a pound of brown 
sugar ; make into paste, with a pint of fresh milk, heated, 
three well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of baking powder, 
one pound of currants, one ounce of candied lemon, one 
ounce of citron, a little lemon-peel, and salt ; set it by the 
fire for one hour to rise. Make it into buns ; it will take 
twenty minutes to bake them. 

Ladies' Fingers. 

Half a pound of sugar, five eggs well beaten together as 
light as possible ; then add half a pound of flour ; run them 
through a paper tube on papers of equal size, and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

Macaroons. 

One pound of sweet almonds, three eggs, one pound of su- 
gar. Blanch the almonds, and dry them well ; pound them in 
a mortar ; add the whites of the eggs ; sift the sugar through a 
lawn sieve ; beat all well together for ten minutes. Cover 
your cake-boards with paper; make the cakes round or 
oval, and either sift sugar on the tops, or put on pieces of 
ftlmonds ; put them on the paper ; put them on tins and 
bake in a moderate oven. 
11 



S43 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHBN. 

Another Method. 

One pound of sweet almonds, quarter of a pound of bittei 
almonds, one pound and a quarter of sugar, the whites of 
four eggs, well beaten. Bake as above. Blanch the al- 
monds ; take off the skins and beat to a paste in a mortar. 

CocoANUT Cakes. 
One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, yolks of five 
eggs ; beat well together, the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
froth. Mix with three-quai'ters of a pound of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Grate the white of one 
good-sized cocoanut. Mix all together, with one cupful of 
milk ; add the cocoanut just before baking. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

Break a cocoanut in pieces ; take the shell off, and lay 
the pieces in cold water ; cut off the dark rind, and grate 
the white on a coarse grater ; beat the wliites of four eggs 
with half a pound of powdered sugar until very light; 
flavor with essence of lemon ; add the grated cocoanut until 
ib is thick enough to stir with a spoon ; put it in cones on 
a sheet of white paper, about an inch apart ; put it on a 
tin and bake in a quick oven. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, a small piece of butter, half a pint 
of milk, four eggs, one cocoanut grated, teaspoonful of oil 
of lemon, or grated rind of lemon, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, and one pound of flour. Beat all well to- 
gether, and bake in a quick oven. 

Velvet Cakes. 
One quart of flour, three eggs beaten, a quart of milk, 
gill of yeast ; make into a batter. When well risen, stir in 



0AKE8. 24 



o 



a large spoonful of melted butter, and bake thtm in mufQn- 
rings. A little soda dissolved in some of the milk to be 
added before baking. 

Soft Waffles. 

Three pints of milk, two pounds of flour, one pound of 
butter, some yeast ; let it rise ; when light, bake in waffle- 
irons well greased with butter. Serve hot with butter, 
sugar, and cinnamon, or currant jelly. 

ELiBD Waffles. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound 
of sugar, three eggs well beaten, a little rosewater. Bake 
as before, and serve cold. 

Rice Waffles. 

Boil half a pound of rice until quite soft ; mix with it 
three-quarters of a pound of flour, a little salt, two ounces 
of melted butter, two eggs well beaten, and sufficient milk 
to make a thick batter ; beat until very light, and bake in 
waffle-irons. Add two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Waffles. 

One quart of milk, one e^ well beaten, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, a tablespoonful of butter, a table- 
spoonful of sugar, sufficient flour to make a pretty thick 
batter. Bake in well-greased waffle-irons. 

Wafers. 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, two 
eggs well beaten, quarter of a pound of sugar, one glassful 
of preserved quince-juice, one nutmeg grated; beat all wfU\ 
together, and bake in a wafer-iron. 



241 BAND-BOOK FOR THB KITCHEN. 

Another Method. 

T^o eggs well beaten, two large spoonfuls of sugar, one 
nutmeg grated ; sufficient flour to make stiff paste ; roll 
thin and bake in greased wafer-irons. 

Wafeb Jumbles. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of white sugar, half 
a pound of butter, two eggs ; beat the eggs and butter ; 
mix them all together, with sufficient milk or water to make 
a batter ; pour it in equal quantities on buttered paper or 
tins, and bake in a quick oven ; as they must be very thin, 
they will bake in a few minutes. 

Jumbles. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of white sugar, half 
a pound of butter, two eggs; beat the eggs and butter well, 
mould them all together into a paste, roll them out, and 
cut them in forms ; roll them in a little flour and sugar 
before putting them on the tins. Bake them. 

KicH Small Cake. 

Three eggs well beaten, three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
same of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, a teaspoonful of 
essence of lemon, half a nutmeg grated ; beat them all 
together, roll it out thin, cut in small cakes. Bake. 

Plain Dbop Cake. 

One pound of sugar beaten with three eggs, one pound 
of flour, with half a poiind of butter, three teaspoonfols 
baking powder, cup of milk ; beat all well together. Put 
into rings and bake in a quick oven. 

BicH Drop Cake. 
Stir well into a soft batter half a pound of wheat-flour, 
half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, four egga 



OAKES. 245 

well beaten ; flavor with lemon or vanilla ; b itter pan 3 or 
rings, fill them two-thirds full, and bake q lickly. 

Drop Cake. 

Mix into a batter half a pound of flour, half a ])Ound of 
butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half of a nutmeg 
grated, half a pound of currants, two eggs well beaten, tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Drop on buttreed tins or 
rings, and bake quickly. 

Crullers. 

Hub well together two cups of flour, one of sugar, table- 
spoonful of butter, two eggs well beaten, half a nutmeg 
grated ; teaspoonful of baking powder ; add sufficient milk 
to make paste, roll out, cut in form. Boil in hot lard. 

Another Method, 

One pound of sifted flour, one pound of white sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, four eggs well beaten, 
half a nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Mix all well together. Roll out on well-floured paste* 
board ; cut in squares, about three inches, with paste-cut« 
ter ; make four divisions and bend them over. Boil in hot 
lard. 

Soft Crullers. 

Three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of 
powdered white sugar, half a pound of butter, six eggs well 
beaten, half a nutmeg grated, pint of hot water ; beat in the 
flour and the butter, stir in the sugar and nutmeg, beat all 
thoroughly together over the fire ; take the saucepan from 
the fire, beat in the eggs all to a stiff batter. Flour your 
paste-board well, pour your paste on in rings^ take then* 



24B HAND-BOOK FOR THB KITCHEN. 

caref ally fi*om the board with a broad-bladed knift^ a few at a 
time, and put them in the boiling lard and cook them as 
other crullers. Sprinkle powdered sugar over them. Serve. 

» Doughnuts. 

One pound of wheat-flour, one pound of sugar, two eggs 
well beaten, quarter of a pound of butter, a gill of yeast. 
Mix into a soft dough. Let them rise. KoU out the dough, 
cut in circles with a cup. You can make part of them with 
a piece of jeUy or a large raisin in the centre, folding them 
up and moulding them with your hands. 

Boil them in hot lard by dropping them in and turning 
them over after cooking about two minutes on one side and 
leaving them the same time on the other. They must be of 
a yellow bi-own. 

Doughnuts without Yeast. 

One pound of sifted wheat-flour, three tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder, one pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of butter, one spoonful of ground cinnamon. Bub all well 
together, add two eggs well beaten, sufficient water to make 
the dough. Koll out and cut inoo shape. Boil in hot lard. 

Almond Cake. 

One poimd of almonds blanched and beaten, ten eggs 
well beaten, three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of flour ; mix ail well together ; bake 
in a moderate oven. Beat the almonds to a paste in a 
mortar. Butter, two ounces, rubbed into the flour. Tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. 

Lemon Cake. 

Beat well six eggs, whites and yolks separately ; add to 
tlie yolks the rind of a lemon grated, six ounces of sugorj 



OAKES. 247 

dried and sifted ; beat them together for a quarwr oi au 
hour ; shake in while beating six ounces of dried flour, then 
add the whites of the eggs, and the juice of the lemon ; 
when well beaten, put it into buttered tins, and bake for 
one houi in a moderate oven. 

BrOCK Cake. 
One pound of almonds cut in pieces, one pound of sugar, 
whites of three eggs beaten, half a pound of butter, and 
one pound of flour. Beat all well, with a teaspoonful and 
a half of yeast powder. Bake in a buttered pan. 

English Cakk. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, a little more than three- 
quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a 
gill of brandy, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon. Beat all 
well together and bake in buttered pans. Always beat eggs 
whites and yolks separately. 

Seed Cake. 

Half a pound of butter, two ounces of sifted sugar, nine 
eggs, one nutmeg grated, three-quarters of a pound of flour, 
one and a half ounces of picked caraway seeds. Beat the 
batter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, beat well to- 
gether ; beat separately the yolks of all the eggs and the 
"whites of five ; mix the whites in first, then the yolks. 
Beat all for ten minutes, add the flour and nutmeg ; mix 
them gradually ; beat in the caraway seeds just before put- 
ting it in the oven. You can make an icing of the remuindor 
of the whites of oggs. 

New Year's Cake. 

Three and a half pounds of flour, one pound and two 
ounces of sugar, one pound and a half of blatter, half a pint 



248 hani>-booe: fob the kitchen. 

of water, a few caraway seeds. Mix into a firm pastOi 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Boston Oaks. 

Beat together one pound of batter and one pound cf 
sugar very light, then add half a gill of wine, and a table- 
spoonful of rosewater. Whisk ten eggs until very thick 
and add them ; stir in gradually one pound and a quarter 
of flour, and then add one grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of 
cinnamon and a little ground cloves ; beat all together for 
ten minutes ; bake in shallow or round pans, in a moderate 
oven. When cold, ice them. 

French Cake. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, four tablespoonfuls of 
butter, cupful of milk, three cups of flour, two eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor to taste. Beat all 
well together. Bake. 

Another Method, 

One pound of flour, three^uarters of a pound of butter, 
spoonful of salt, yolks of two eggs well beaten, small cup- 
ful of cream, an ounce of sifted sugar ; beat the flour and 
sugar together, add the salt, then the e^s and cream, stir 
to a paste, make into rolls and cut in pieces. Brush the 
beaten yolk of eggs over the tops. Bake for half an hour 

in a quick oven. 

Tea Cake. 

Four cups of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, three 
eggs beaten, one cupful of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Mix all well together and bake in buttered pans. 
Use Dooley's baking powder. 

One Eqo Tea Cake. 
One egg, four tablespoonfuls of white sugar, tablespoonr 



0AKE8. 249 

ful of batter^ one gill of milk, teaspoonful of yeast powder, 
sufficient flour for a stiflT paste ; flavor to taste. Bake in 
small buttered pans. 

Lady Cake. 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of butter and same 
of white sugar, whites of four eggs beaten light, a little ex- 
tract of bitter almonds; beat all well together; bake in 
square pans about an inch thick; ice with a thin, white 
icing. (See Icings.) 

Cup Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, half a cup of milk, 
four eggs beaten, a teaspoonful and a half of baking powder, 
sufficient flour to make a stiff batter ; beat well together ; 
pour it into buttered pans about an inch deep, cover with 
paper to keep it from becoming too brown, and bake in a 
quick oven ; flavor with vanilla or bitter almonds. This can 
be made with two eggs and half a cup of butter. 

Composition Cake. 

One pound of flour, a cupful of sugar, half a pound of 
butter, seven eggs well beaten, half a pint of cream ; beat 
all well together, and bake in buttered pans. 

Silver Cake. 

The whites of eight eggs beaten, cupful of sugar, three- 
quarters of a cup of butter, half a cupful of milk, one and a 
half cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; 
flavor to taste. 

Golden Cake. 

Yolks of eight eggs well beaten with one cupful of sugar, 
tliree-quarters of a cup of butter, half a cupful of milk, one 
and a half cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der ; flavor with lemon. 
11* 



260 HAND-BOOK FOR THR KITCHEN. 

Clove Cake. 
Half a pound of flour, three eggs well beaten, quarter of s 
pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, sufficient milk for a thick bat- 
ter, one ounce of ground cloves ; beat all well together and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Queen Cake. 
Half a pound of flour, half a pound of white sifted sugar, 
half a pound of dried currants, well washed and dried ; beat 
well together half a pound of butter and some rosewater ; 
beat separately the whites and yolks of four eggs ; add them 
to the butter; tfdd the other ingredients gradually; beat 
the whole together ; butter small tins, fill them half full, sift 
some fine sugar over, and bake. 

Sponge Cake. 
Three cups of flour, three cups of sugar, six eggs beaten, 
whites separately, to a stiff froth ; yolks beaten with the 
sugar ; add the flour to the eggs and sugar ; add one cup 
of ice- water ; beat in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; 
add the whites of the eggs, with one more cupful of flour ; 
beat well together and bake in tins lined with white paper, 
well buttered, in a moderately quick oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

One pound of sugar, Ave eggs, one pound of flour, one 
lemon grated; beat the whites and yolks of • the eggs sepa- 
rately, as light as possible ; beat all together and bake in a 
moderate oven. You can add teaspoonful of Dooley's baking 
powder. 

Plain Sponge Cake. 

Mix together one cupful of flour, teaspoonful of baking 
powder, cupful of sugar, three eggs, yolks and wliites beaten 
separately, tablespoonful of milk ; stir quickly ; bake imin^ 
diatelv. 



CAKES. 251 

Sfongb Biscuit. 

B alf a pound of flour, six ounces of crushed sugar, yolks 
of three eggs, whites of two ; beat the sugar and eg^s to- 
gether ; add the flour ; drop them on buttered paper or in 
muffin-rings, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of crushed sugar in 
half a pint of water ; simmer it over a slow Are until quite 
clear ; pour it into a bowl ; add the grated rind of a lemon ; 
stir until cold ; take the yolks of eight eggs and the whites 
of two ; beat them well ; mix the eggs and syrup, and beat 
for half an hour just before putting into the oven ; stir in 
gradually half a pound of flour ; bake one hour and a quai*- 
ter. You can add baking powder — one teaspoonful. 

Pound Cake. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, ten eggs 
well beaten, whites and yolks separately, some rosewater 
and ground nutmeg ; beat well together ; bake in a quick 
oven; cover with white paper to keep from burning the 
top. 

Another Method. 

One pound and a quarter of butter, pound of sugar, pound 
of flour, ten eggs, one nutmeg grated, wineglassful of brandy 
and wine in equal quantities; beat the butter and sugar 
Tery light, then add the wine and brandy, nutmeg, and some 
of the flour ; beat the eggs until very stijQT, and stir them 
into the butter and sugar ; then add the remainder of the 
flour, gradually; beat all well together; line your pan 
with buttered paper; put in the cake; smooth it with a 
knife ; put a piece of paper over the top ; bake in a moder* 
ate oroD two hours and a half. 



252 HAND-BOOK FOB THE iOlXIHEN. 

Pound Oake — Cuebant. 

One pouud of butter, one of sugar, ten eggs, wineglassful 
of wine and rosewater, one pound and a quarter of flour, one 
nutmeg ground, teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, pound of 
diied currants, washed and dried; beat all well together, 
and then add the fruit ; line your pan with buttered paper, 
put in the cake, cover the top with white paper, and bake 
in a moderate oven. You can make the same with citron 
or chopped raisins. 

EusK Pound Cake. 

Six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one pint of sifted flour, half a cupful of milk ; beat well to- 
gether and bake in a deep pan. 

Spiced Pound Cake. 

One pound of fresh butter, eight eggs, one pound of 
sifted flour, one pound sifted sugar, a few cloves, ground, 
nutmeg and cinnamon, glassful of wine, a few caraway 
seeds. Beat the butter to a cream, beat the whites and 
yolks separately, then beat the butter and eggs together ; 
have the flour and sugar warmed by the fire ; add them 
gradually to the eggs and butter, beating well ; then add 
the wine and caraway seeds, the spices to be added to the 
flour. Line your pan with paper buttered, cover the cake 
with paper, and bake for one hour in a quick oven. 

Pint Cake. 
One pint of dough, teacupful of sugar, teacupful of but 
ter, three eggs, one teaspoon of soda, raisins and spices. 

Potato Cheese Cake. 
One pound of mashed common or sweet potatoes, half a 
pound of currants, a quarter of a pound each of butter an ii 



OAKES. 253 

sugar, four eggs well beaten ; mix well and bake in tins 
lined with paste. 

Jelly Cake. 

One cupful of butter beaten to a cream, add two CL^fula 
of sugar, four well-beaten eggs, three cupfuls of flour, and 
half a cupful of milk, teaspoonful of yeast powder ; beat 
well into a moderately stiff batter ; bake in thin cakes ; when 
done, spread them with jelly, and place them one over the 
other ; ice the top. 

Washington Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, a pound and a half 
of sugar; beat them well together; then add four well- 
beaten eggs, half a pint of sour milk, teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little hot water ; stir gradually into this mix- 
ture one pound and three-quarters of flour, wineglassfu] 
of wine or brandy, and one nutmeg grated. Beat all well 
together. Bake in a quick oven ; it will take from twenty 
to thirty minutes. 

Cbeam Cakes. 

One quart of boiling water, a quarter of a pound of but- 
ter beat insufScient sifted wheat-flour to make a moderately 
stiff batter ; let it cool. Beat the whites of ten eggs to a 
stiff froth ; add it to the batter when cool ; beat in the yolks 
of five, beat well ; drop from a large tablespoon on paper or 
buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. Make some cream 
with the remaining yolks and some milk and extract of 
vanilla ; make an incision in the side of the cakes and in- 
sert the cream. 

Dutch Cake. 

One pound of flour, a little salt, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pound currants ; 
half a square of compressed yeast, sufficient water to make 



254 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KTTOHEN. 

dough ; mix well; cover it and put it in a warm place to 
rise. Bake in moderate oven. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Fruit Pound Cake. 

Two and a half pounds of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, same of melted butter, half a pound of currants or 
raisins, a quarter of a pound of orange-peel, two ounces of 
caraway seeds, half an ounce of ground cinnamon or ginger, 
four teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in a little more than a 
pint of milk ; mix well, and add the< juice of three lemons. 
Line your pan with buttered paper. 

Bread Fruit Cake. 

Make one pound of very light bread dough, work in half 
a pound of butter ; let it rise ; beat together three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar and five eggs ) add some spices, brandy, 
and raisins ; mix well together. Line your pan with but- 
tered paper and bake. 

Twelfth Cake. 

One pound of sifted flour, half a pound of loaf-sugar, one 
pound of butter, nine eggs, two pounds of dried currants, 
washed and dried, four ounces of almonds blanched and cut 
small, four ounces of citron sliced, half a pound of can- 
died orange and lemon-peel, half a gill of pale brandy, half 
a large nutmeg grated, quarter of an ounce of allspice, a 
little mace, coriander and ginger, a little cinnamon. Bake. 

Boston Fruit Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, same of sugar, same 
of flouT, eight eggs, one gill of cream, teaspoonful of oinna* 



J 



0AKE8. 255 

mon and nutmeg mixed, half a gill of brandy, one pound of 
currants, washed, picked and dried, one pound of raisins, 
seeded and chopped ; beat the butter, sugar and spice to- 
gether until very light ; stir in the cream and a quarter of 
the flour ; whisk the eggs until thick, and add them gradu- 
ally ; stir in the remainder of the flour ; beat well, and 
then add the fruit; beat all well. Line your pans with 
buttered paper ; bake in a moderate oven. 

Currant Cake. 

Bub one pound and a half of butter, in four quarts of 
flour ; three pounds of currants, half a pound of sugar, 
quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, mace and cinnamon, a little 
salt, pint and a half of warm cream, or milk, gill of brandy, 
pint of good brewers' yeast, or three tablespoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, five eggs ; mix well together, bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Plum Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, beaten together, 

nine eggs well beaten, beat all together, stir in a teacupful 

of molasses, same of milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder ; add sufficient flour, one pound, for a stifl* batter, 

three pounds of currants, washed, and spread on a napkin 

and dried before the fire, three pounds of good raisins, 

stemmed and chopped, one pound of citron, cut small, mix 

the fruit thoroughly through the cake, add a glassful each 

of wine and bi-andy, ground cloves, mace ana cinnamon, 

mix well ; line your pans with buttered paper ; bake in a 

good oven. 

Plain Fruit Cake. 

One pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter 
of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of cuiTantf, three 
eggs, half a pint of milk, half a teaspoonful of so :1a, and 
juice of half a lemon. Bake in earthen dish. 



256 HAKD-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN. 

Rich Fruit Cake. 

One pound each of batter, flour and sugar, two pounds 
of currants, three pounds of i*aisins, one pound of citron cut 
in thin pieces, twelve eggs well beaten, two nutmegs grated, 
a little mace, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one wineglass- 
ful of brandy, and one of wine and rose water; line your 
pans with paper, buttered. 

Wedding Cake. 

Four pounds of flour, three of butter, three of sugar, four 
of currants, two of raisins, two dozen eggs, ounce of mace, 
three nutmegs grated, a little citron, half a pint of molasses. 
Bake for three hours. 

Another Method. 

Three pounds of flour, same each of butter and sugar, two 
dozen eggs, four pounds of raisins, six pounds of currants, 
two pounds of citron, one ounce of mace, one of cinnamon, 
one of nutmeg, half an ounce of cloves, half a pint of brandy. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar ; beat the yolks 
of the eggs to a froth, and add ; beat the whites as light as 
possible, mix the fruit, spices, and flour together. Bake for 
five or six hours, if the cake is large. 

ICINGS, ETC. 

Soft Icings. 

Beat the whites of two or more eggs, to a dry, stiff froth ; 
beat in sufficient sugar to sweeten ; spread it over the cake, 
pie, or custard pudding. Let it stand in the oven a few 
minutes, turning it gently. 

Icing for Cake. 

Beat one pound of double-refined sugar with an ounce 
of fine starch ; sift, beat to a stiff froth the whites of throe 



0AKB8. 25? 

eggs ; beat in a little at a time ; when all is added, beat to- 
gether for half an hour. Spread it on the cake as soon as 
taken from the oven. 

Almond Icing. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; beat one 
pound of almonds very fine with rosewater, mix them with 
tlie eggs, beat lightly ; add gradually one pound of powdered 
loaf-sugar. When the cake is baked, lay on the icing and 
brown it in the oven. 

To Candy Flowers. 

Melt some crushed sugar in water, over the fire ; as soon 
as it boils, strain it, and place it upon the fire again ; let it 
boil until it threads, then dip the fiowers in it, and )>ut 
ihem in glasses ; when hard, use them. 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 



To Claeify Sugar. 

Put half a pint of water in the preserving-kettle for each 
pound of sugar. Place it over a moderate fire to dissolve; 
stir in the white of an egg to four pounds of sugar. As the 
foam rises, skim it off clear and transparent. 

Observations. 

Fruit for preserving should be picked in dry weather and 
early in the season. Early preserves require watching. 
Should be kept in a dry place. If any indications of fer- 
mentation appear, the preserves should be heated, and the 
jars washed and dried before returning them. Must bo 
sealed air-tight before they cool. 

Fruits for jellies or jams must be warmed and washed 
before the sugar (which must be dried in the oven) is added ; 
for jellies, press out all the juice and add the sugai' to the 
clear juice ; with care, no failure need be feared, as fifteen 
to twenty minutes is all that is requireil (See Jellies.) 
Porcelain-lined kettles are beat 

For canning, glass or earthern ware must be used. You 
can make ordinary jars air-tight by putting strips of dough 
on the edges and fitting in the cover. 

In filling glasses with jelly, dip silk tissue-paper in beaten 
white of an eggy and placing it over, fasten thick paper 
down over the top and seal the edges. 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 259 

To Can Fruit. 

Prepare the fruit as for preserving ; fill the jars and put 
them in boiling water until hot. Seal immediately. 

Air-tight Covering for Jars. 

Mix one part mutton tallow and two parts of beeswax ; 
melt them together ; dip a thick cloth in the mixture and 
spread it quickly over the jar and press it tightly round the 
edges before the mixture cools. 

To Greek Fruit for Pickling or Preserves. 

Prepare them as for preserves or pickles; put them into 
a i)reserving-kettle ; cover them with water; cover with 
vine -leaves, peach-leaves, spinach. Close the saucepan or 
kettle. Set them on the side of the fire, where they will 
heat gradually. When they begin to simmer, take them out 
carefully, let them cool, and go through the same process 
the next day. ^.dd a little alum and a little soda. Take 
the fruit, etc., while green. 

Apple Marmalade. 

Peel and core two pounds of apples ; put them in a porce- 
lain-lined saucepan, with one pint of sweet cider, or half 
a pint of wine, one pound of crushed sugar. Cook them 
over a gentle fii-e, three hours or more, until the fruit is 
very soft; then squeeze it through a colander, and then 
through a sieve. If not suflSiciently sweet, add powdered 
sugar to taste, and put it away in jars, covered tight with a 
piece of wet bladder. Serve with cream or milk. 

Apple Jelly. 

Pare and slice the apples ; put them in a saucepan with 
sufficient water to cover them ; boil gently until very ten- 
der, then strain through a jelly -bag. To every pint of liq\ior 



260 HAKD-BOOK FOB THE KITCHSN. 

ftdd one pound of loaf-sugar. Boil for about ten minuteSj 
and, if the right stiffiiess, pour it into a mould. A little 
lemon-peel may be added. 

Apple Cbeah. 

Put into a pan equal quantities of the pulp of baked applea 
and cream; beat them well together with some lemon jell j 
made with gelatine. Add some lemon-juice, peel, and sugar 
to taste. Clear the jelly with the white of an egg. Pour 
into your mould. 

Almond Blanc-Manoe. 

Boil in a pint of water two ounces of almonds and three 
ounces of sugar. Melt in it one ounce of isinglass. Strain 
it into a small tin mould to stiffen. 

When cold and stiff, you can turn it out. 

Chebbies Pbesebyed. 

Choose very ripe cherries ; stem and stone them ; save all 
the juice ; take equal weight of white sugar, and a teacup 
of water for each pound of sugar. Pissolve it over the 
five and let it become boiling hot. Add the cherries and 
juice ; boil gently until clear. Take out the fruit ; let it 
cool and settle. Boil the syrup until thickened ; put the 
fruit in jars, and pour in the syrup. 

If the fruit is very juicy, you can dissolve the sugar in 
less water. 

Chebbies Bb^lndied. 

Choose solid cherries ; stem them, or not, as you choose ; 
parboil them in only sufficient water to cover them ; take 
them out when done, and add half a pound of sugar for each 
poimd of fruit Boil the syrup until rich ; put back the 
cherries, and boil gently fifteen minutes ; put the cherries in 



JELLIES, JAM^, ETC. 261 

jars and add equal quantity of brandy to the syrup ; pour 
it over the cherries, and seal air-tight. 

Cherky Jelly. 

Pick off the stems and stone the cherries. Add half a 
pound of currants to each pound of chenies ; put them in 
the preserving-kettle, and jam them and squeeze out the 
juice. To each pound of fruit put in three-quarters of a 
pound of dried sugar. Boil until all are cooked. Strain 
through a jelly -bag. To each two quarts of jelly add one 
ounce of gelatine, dissolved previously. Simmer. Fill 
moulds or jars, and seal air-tight. 

Red Currant Jam. 

Stem the currants; 'put them in a porcelain-lined kettle 
and mash them; put them over the fire and mash and 
squeeze them. Add three-quarters of a pound of sugar for 
each pound of fruit. Simmer twenty minutes. Put it in 
air-tight jars, and seal. 

Any kind of jelly can be made in a few minutes with 
juice of fruit, orange, lemon, or any that can be obtained. 
Dissolve one ounce of Cox's gelatine for one and a half quarts 
of juice. Sweeten to taste. Let it stand to settle, and put 
it in moulds. Or to each quart of juice, while boiling hot, 
add two tablespoonfuls of Duryea's cornstarch. Mould it. 

Red Currant Jelly. 

Stem the currants when perfectly ripe and freshly picked ; 
put them in an earthen dish, which you set in a kettle of 
boiling water over the fire ; let it stand until the fruit is 
soft. Strain them into a clean, dry porcelain-lined kettle ; 
have the sugar well dried. When the juice is boiling hot, 
add the sugar, one pound for every pint of juice. Let it 
boil gently twenty minutes ; turn it into a clean, cold ves- 



. I 



262 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN 

eel ; fill your glasses or moulds, and when cool cover then 
with paper. Seal tight. Must be kept in a dry place. 

Another Method. 

Let your currants be perfectly ripe ; warm them a little , 
squeeze them through a bag into a porcelain-lined kettle. 
Measure the juice in a pint measure ; put it on the fire, 
and when boiling hot, add three-quarters of a pound of well- 
dried sugar. Let it boil gently twenty minutes ; turn it 
into a cool dish ; fill your glasses or moulds. When col<l, 
cover them tightly with thick paper, sealed round with egg 
or flour paste. 

Another Method. 

Stem the currants ; warm them u^til softened ; squeeze 
them through a bag ; measure the juice, put it into a porce- 
lain-lined kettle, and when boiling hot, add the well-dried 
sugar, half a pound to each pint of juice. Let it boil gentlj 
twenty minutes ; turn it into a cool dish ; fill your glasses 
or moulds, and when cool cover with thick paper sealed 
tightly with flour-paste or egg. 

These- need not fail. 

E.ASPBEBRY Jam. 

Choose rich ripe berries (not thimble-tops) ; weigh them ; 
dissolve half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit ; boil 
until a rich syrup ; put in the berries and boil gently 
twenty-five minutes ; put in air-tight jars, and seal ; keep 
in a dark, dry place. 

Easpberries Fbeseryed. 

Pick them carefully (they should be red, or rich purple^ 
not thimble-tops) ; weigh the berries, and dissolve three-quai^ 
ters of a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit ; boil until 
a rich syrup ; put in the fruit, and boil gently ten minutes; 



J 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 2G3 

take out the fruit carefully and boil the syrup until the 
water is all exhausted ; put the fruit in, and heat it thor- 
oughly ; put it in jars, and seal air-tight. About one-third 
of currants is a great improvement. 

Fears Preserved. 

Select Bartletts or Vergalo ; skin them carefully, leave 
the stem ; boil them in as little water as possible, until 
;^nder, with slices of lemon, and green ginger ; take them 
out and dissolve one pound of sugar for each pound of fruit 
in the water in which the fruit was boiled ; boil until the 
water is reduced, and the syrup is rich ; take out the lemon 
."ind ginger ; put in the fruit and boil gently twenty min- 
utes ; take out the fruit and put it carefully in jars without 
Dreaking off the stems, or crushing the fruit. Boil the 
syrup until rich ; pour it over the fruit, and seal air-tight. 
Other pears can be quartered and cored, and preserved in 
the same way. 

Citron Preserved. 

Cut the green skin thin and smooth ; cut in quarters, and 
take out the seeds ; weigh it ; boil it, dissolve three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar in a little water with lemon and 
green ginger ; when the citron is tender, put it in the syrup 
and boil until transparent ; take out the citron and boil 
down the syrup until the water is exhausted ; strain it ; 
put the citron in jars, and pour the syrup over. 

Crab-apple Jam. 

Wash the fruit and boil it in water until tender, as lit- 
tle water as possible ; dissolve sugar, pound for each pound 
of fruit ; when boiling hot, put in the fruit, keep it hot one 
hour ; take out the fruit and boil down the syrup ; put 
back the fruit and simmer until all the water is exhausted ; 
put it in pots and seal it. 



264 hand-book fob the eitohen. 

Babbebby Jah. 

Boil until the water is stroogly flavored; add sugar 
pound for pound of fruit ; let it boil until thickened ; put 
in the fruit ; simmer one hour ; put it in jars and seal. 

Stbawbebbies Pbesebyed. 

Select large solid berries ; rinse them after picking off 
the hulls ; drain them and weigh them ; dissolve three- 
quarters of a pound of clarified sugar for each pound of 
fruit ; simmer until thickened ; half a cup of water for 
each pound of sugar ; put in the berries and boil gently 
about ten minutes ; take them out carefully without 
breaking ; put them on a wire sieve ; boil the sjmp until 
the water is exhausted ; put in the berries when thor- 
oughly heated ; in about ten minutes put them in jars ; 
pour the syrup over and seal air-tight. Strawberries ai-e 
most difficult to preserve without losing the flavor, as 
they are early ; require great care to keep them from fer- 
menting. Dark blue paper pasted around glass jars is said 
to be beneficial. 

Stbawberby Jam. 

Procure ripe rich berries of strong flavor (not forced 
ones) ; weigh them ; dissolve half a pound of sugar for each 
pound of fruit, use very little water ; boil until a rich 
syrup ; put in the berries and boil fifteen or twenty min- 
utes ; put them in jars, and seal air-tight. 

To Bottle Stbawbebbies. 

Select large solid berries ; pick them carefully ; put 
them in bottles, fill up to the neck ; put the bottles in boil- 
ing water over the fire ; when boiling hot fill the bottlei 
with the water and cork air-tight. Must be kept in a cool 
dry, shady place. 



J 



JELLIES, JAMS, E^fC. 265 

Candied Fbuit. 

When the fruit is preserved, take it from the sjrup ; 
put a layer in a new sieve, and dip the sieve quickly into 
hot water, to remove the syrup from the fruit ; place the fruit 
on a napkin before the fire to drain ; sift some double-re- 
fined sugar, over the fruit, on all sides, until quite white ; 
set it on the shallow end of sieve, in a moderate oven ; turn 
it two or three times, watch it carefully, do not let it get 
cold, until dry. Or you can set it to dry in the sun. 

Grape Jam ob Jelly. 

Boil the grapes very soft, and strain them through a 
sieve ; weigh the pulp and add a pound of sugar to a pound 
of pulp ; boil it twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Grape 
jelly is made as any other jelly ; strain as other jellies. 

GOOSEBERBY JeLLY. 

Pour boiling water over them, and clean them ; boil them 
in another water until soft ; add one pound of white sugar 
to one pound of fruit ; let them boil until reduced to a 
pulp ; strain ; let it simmer until the water is exhausted, 
and if the jelly is not stiff, add some gelatine ; let it sim« 
mer until smooth and clear ; when sufficiently clear, put 
into moulds. 

Goosebebby and Easpbebby Jelly. 

Take red goosel^erries, and a quarter as many white 
ones, half a quarter as many raspberries ; pick the fruit, 
and put it in a preserving-kettle with an equal quantity of 
sugar ; boil quickly, skimming carefully ; try a little, and 
if it stiffens in a moment, it is cooked enough; strain into 
your pots through a hair sieve, then cover as directed. 
12 



266 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

Gooseberries Stewed. 

Pour boiling water over them, and clean them ; put then 
in a kettle with a little water ; boil tender ; sweeten to taste. 

Gooseberry Jam. 

Glean as above ; put them in your kettle, with a pound 
of sugar to a pound of fruit ; sufficient water to dissolve 
the sugar ; cook until the syrup is rich, and the berries are 
well cooked ; when cool, put it into jars and seal ; stir con- 
tinually while cooking ; let it stand a day before covering. 

To Bottle Gooseberries. 

Take green gooseberries ; fill wide-mouthed bottles with 
them ; place them in a copper kettle, with cold water up to 
the neck ; let the water boil until the fruit begins to shrink, 
then remove the kettle from the fire ; let the bottles remain 
until the water becomes cold ; take them out and fill them 
up with cold water, which has been boiled. Gork, rosin, 
and place in a bottle-rack, with the necks downward. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

Add to an ounce and a half of gelatine, a pint of cold 
water. Let it stand for ten minutes, then add a pint of 
boiling water; stir well, until the gelatine is dissolved. 
Then add a pint of wine, half a pound of white sugar, the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, a little nutmeg, some 
ground cloves and cinnamon ; stir briskly into the mixture 
the whites of two eggs, well beaten. Put it over a slow fire, 
and stir gently until it boils; take it off; let it stand a min- 
ute ; strain until clear. 

Green Gaqb Jam. 

Boil and rub the fruit through a hair sieve ; put the pnlp 
into a preserving-kettle, and to every pound add a pound 



JRLLIES, JAMS, ETC. 267 

of sugar. Boil to the right thickness ; skim and put it into 

pots. 

Green Gaoes Brandied. 

Parboil them, and put them in your kettle, in boiling 
water ; let them boil slowly for a few minutes ; place them 
upon a dish. Take one pound of fruit to one pound of su- 
gar and one pint of water. Dissolve the sugar in the water, 
and let it boil ; skim ; add enough plums to cover the top ; 
when they have cooked enough, take them out with a skim- 
mer ; put more fruit in, and so on, until all is used. Put 
the syrup in a jar; when cold, add an equal quantity of 
brandy. Put the plums into small jars ; pour the syrup 
over them, and seal tight. 

Jaumange. 

Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a pint and a half of 
water; cut in the peel of two lemons; mix. Add the 
yolks of four eggs well beaten ; boil up once, then add the 
juice of the lemons ; sweeten to taste ; stir until cold. You 
can use cornstarch. 

Pineapple Jelly. 

You must use ripe, perfect fruit to secure the right 
flavor. Cut off the rough coat ; grate the pulp with two 
lemons to each large pineapple ; take the seeds out of the 
lemons. Add two quarts of boiling water to one pineapple 
and two lemons ; simmer ; strain ; add two ounces of Rus- 
sia isinglass dissolved in one quart of boiling water. 
Sweeten to taste ; boil slowly until the syrup thickens s 
little ; let it cool. Put in moulds in a cool place. 

Pineapple Marmalade. 

Cut off the rough coat ; mince or grate the fruit ; dis- 
Holve three-quarters of a pound of sugar for every pound of 



268 ITAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOHKN. 

fruit in a little boiling water ; stir in the fruit ; let siiamei 
gently until jellied. Let it cool ; cover, and keej) in a cooi 
place. 

Pineapple Brandied. 

Cut off the rough coat ; cut the fruit in slices. Dissolve 
fialf a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit in water ; put 
it over the fire ; add the fruit ; let it simmer until the sugar 
is melted and the fruit thorouglily heated. Take out the 
fruit, and when cool put into glass jars; boil the sjrup un- 
til thickened. Stir in equal quantity of brandy, and pour 
over the fruit in the jars when cool. Cover tight, and keep 
cool. 

Pineapple Preserves. 

Pare and slice your fruit ; cover with sugar, half a pound 
to each pound of fruit ; let it stand overnight. Dissolve 
the same quantity of sugar in boiling water ; strain the juice 
from the fruit, and add it to the liquor in the preserving- 
kettle. Put in the fruit and boil gently about twenty min- 
utes ; take out the fruit ; boil the syrup until thickened ; 
simmer the fruit in it a few minutes, and when cool, put it 
up in jars. , 

To Preserve Pineapple without Cooking. 

Pare and slice the fruit, even, thin slices. Put sugar m 
the bottom of the glass jar, then slices of pineapple, and 
then sugar until the jar is filled with layers. Cover and 
seal. 

Plums with the Skin. 

Take ripe, perfect fruit ; leave on the stems. Puncture 
the skins with a fork. Dissolve one pound of sugar for each 
pound of fruit ; boil gently until tender ; skim them from 
the syrup, and spread them on a dish ; boil down the 
syrup until quite thick and rich. Put the plums in, and 



JELLIBS, JAMS, BTG. 269 

let them stand without boiling half an hour. Take out the 
plums, and boil the syrup again ; pour it over the plums, 
and let them stand overnight. Take out the plums in the 
morning, and boil the syrup until rich. Put the plums in 
jars, pour the syrup over them, and cover to keep. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Dissolve one and a half pounds of clarified sugar in one 
and a half pints of water, add two ounces of gelatine dis- 
solved in hot water ; cut in the peel of two lemons ; let 
them simmer ; take out the peel and add the juice of six 
lemons ; let it simmer until mixed. Strain and cool ; put 
into moulds in a cool place to stiffen. When you wish to 
turn them out, dip the mould in hot water to loosen the 

jelly. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

Dissolve one pound of white sugar in a little boiling 
water ; skim it while boiling ; add two ounces of gelatine 
dissolved in boiling water, add juice and grated peel of three 
lemons, quarter of a pound of butter, six well-beaten eggs, 
leaving out the whites of two. Stir gently over the fire 
until as thick as honey. Put in jars or in a deep dish and 
keep in a cold place. 

Lemon Sponge. 

Dissolve one ounce of Eussia isinglass in a quart of boil- 
ing water. Cut in thin strips the peel of one large lemon. 
Jliet it simmer until well thickened, but not stifiT; strain 
and add the grated peel of another lemon and the juice of 
both; add half a pound of loaf-sugar. Let it cool in a 
bowl or deep dish. Whisk it until quite cold and stiff. 
When you use it cut it into squares. 



270 . HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHElf. 

Orange Jelly. 

Dissolve one ounce of Eussia isinglass in one quart of 
boiling water ; stir it while melting ; add two lemons and 
six oranges, cut ih half; boil until tender (take out the 
seeds) ; before boiling strain the liquor, press out the juice, 
sweeten to taste ; when cool pour into moulds and set it to 
stiffen. Serve with sponge cake or nice pound cake. 

Marble Jelly. 

Dissolve one ounce of Kussia isinglass in one quart of 
boiling water ; sweeten and flavor one half with lemon-juice, 
pour the syrup over the lemon skins to give it the color. 
Flavor the other half with red wine or sherry and color 
with beet-juice. Sweeten to taste. 

Fill the top of your mould with blanc-mange ; when stiff, 
add the jelly, cooling each layer before adding another color. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Boil half a dozen ripe oranges until tender. Tou must 
change the water two or three times. Drain them and 
take off the skin ; add two pounds of sugar to one and a 
half pounds of fruit. Simmer slowly until the syrup is 
clear ; cut the peel in strips and add it to the other ; let it 
stand a few minutes and put it to cool. You can make any 
quantity, keeping the proportion of about four pounds of 
sugar to three pounds of fruit. 

Blanc-mange. 

Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a little hot water, stir 
it into one quart of milk or cream. Flavor with lemon ex- 
tract, a little nutmeg, sweeten to taste, strain it and let it 
cool ; dip the mould in cold water and set it in a cool plact 
until you wish to use it. 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 271 

Another Method, 

Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in some boiling water, 
add some ratafia, a little nutmeg ; stir them into one quart 
of boiling milk, beaten in four spoonfuls of arrowroot ; 
sweeten to taste ; let it simmer gently, stirring all the time, 
until it is nicely thickened ; take it from the fire and pour 
it into your moulds after dipping them in cold water. Any 
jelly made with isinglass takes several hours to stiffen in a 
cool place. 

Another Method, 

Dissolve one ounce of gelatine in a little boiling water, 
stir it in one pint of boiling milk ; let it simmer ; add one 
pint of cream, son>e extract of bitter almonds ; sweeten to 
taste after boiling until all are well dissolved ; let it cool ; 
dip the moulds in cold water, fill in ; and let it harden in a 
cool place. 

Another Method, 

Stir four spoonfuls of ground rice into one quart of boil- 
ing milk; let it simmer; add two well-beaten eggs, two 
spoonfuls of brandy, some grated nutmeg ; sweeten to taste ; 
when thickened, dip your moulds in cold water and pour in 
the mixture ; let it stand and cool. 

Another Method, 

Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a pint and a half of 
boiling water; add juice and grated peel of two lemons, 
yolks of six eggs well beaten, a glass of Madeira wine; 
sweeten to taste ; let it boil gently ; take it from the fire and 
stir until nearly cold ; when nicely thickened, pour it into 
moulds. 

Blanc-mange with Potato-flour. 

Mix two large spoonfuls of potato-fiour in half a pint of 
cold milk ; boil one quart of milk with a stick of cinnamon a 



272 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN. 

few mintttes ; take out the dnnamon ; stir in the diasolved 
potato-flour ; sweeten to taste ; add some lemon extract ; let 
them boil gently ; take from the fire, and fill in moulds, fir»t 
dipping them in cold water ; let it stand to become perfectly 
cold, when you can turn it out, and serve with jam or 
sweetmeats. 

Blackbebrt and Otheb Fbuits Jav. 

Dissolve one pound of sugar for each of blackberry, 
mashed and stirred with the sugar ; simmer an hour ; skim 
carefully ; when well jellied, put it in jars, and when cool, 
cover with brandied paper, and seal air-tight as other pre- 
serves. Peach, apricot, etc., made in same manner. 

To Pbeserve Blackerries. 

Half a pound of dugar to each pound of fruit ; let it stand 
all night ; then put them in your preserving-kettle, and add 
as much more sugar with sufficient water to dissolve the su- 
gar ; boil gently until the fruit is soft ; strain off the syrap 
and let it simmer until the syrup thickens, when you return 
the fruit, and simmer in the syrup ; let it simmer about twenty 
minutes; let it cool and put it in jars covered air-tight. 

Blackberry Jelly. 

Dissolve half a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit ia a 
little water ; let it stand several hours ; add half a pound for 
pound more of sugar, and let it boil gently until the berries 
are quite soft ; strain off the syrup ; put into it some whole 
cloves and sticks of cinnamon; let it simmer; add odo 
ounce of gelatine thoroughly dissolved in boiling water to 
five pints of the juice ; add one pint of brandy to a gallon, 
or in that proportion ; simmer until nicely mixed and strain', 
when cool, put it in sealed jars and keep in cool place. 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETa 273 

Peabs Stewed. 

Put them in a saucepan, about one quart to half a pint 
of syrup, and half the quantity of water; let it boil slowly 
until the pears are tender and the water exhausted ; put the 
pears in your dish, and pour the syrup over them. 

Another Method. 

Out the pears in quarters, having first pared them ; put 
them in some water sweetened to taste ; flavor with lemon, 
whole cloves, or green ginger ; when they are stewed tender, 
they are ready. 

Peach Pbesebve. 

Skin some dry, ripe peaches ; before they become mellow* 
cut them in half, and take out the pit ; dissolve half a pound 
of sugar for each pound of fruit in boiling water ; put in the 
peaches ; let them boil gently until cooked ; skim them care- 
fully out of the syrup ; add half a pound more of sugar for 
every pound of fruit to the syrup, and boil gently until it 
thickens ; then put in the fruit again, and simmer until the 
sugar penetrates thoroughly and the water is exhausted ; do 
not break the fruit. 

l*ut in jars (see Directions). 

Peach Jelly. 

One pound of fruit to a pound of sugar ; skin and stone 
the peaches ; put them with the sugar and a cupful of water 
ovor the firo ; cook from twenty to thirty minutes ; strain, 
and for every pound of fruit, clarify one ounce of isinglass : 
stir it in, and boil until it is a stifl* jelly ; strain and iool ; 
put in moulds. 

Peaches Brandied. 

One pound of sugar to one pound of fruit and half a pint 
of water ; dissolve the sugar in the water ; put the peaches 
12* 



274 HAND-BOOK FOB THIS KITCHEN. 

iuco boiling water in your kettle ; boil a few minutes slowly; 
take them out, and take off the skins very carefully ; put 
the sugar over the fire to boil ; skim it well ; add enough 
peaches to cover the top ; cook until done ; take them out 
carefully with a skimmer ; place them singly on dishes ; put 
some more peaches in the syrup, and do so until all the 
peaches are cooked ; put the syrup in a jar ; when cold, add 
some white brandy; put the peaches into small glass jars; 
pour the syrup over them ; seal the jars tight. 

Another Method, 

Put the peaches into a pot ; throw over them quarter of 
the weight of powdered white sugar, then cover with brandy ; 
put a piece of double light brown paper over the top ; cover 
very close ; set the pot in a kettle of water over the fire 
until the brandy is hot ; do not let it boil ; put the fruit 
into jars ; pour the brandy upon it ; when cold, tie a blad- 
der tightly over the jars. 

Peaches Pbesebved. 

Put the peaches into a preserving-kettle with cold water ; 
put in one or two slices of lemon ; place the kettle over 
the fire ] when they begin to be soft, place a napkin on your 
sieve, drain the peaches on it, and let them stand until cold ; 
put them in jars ; pound some sugar very fine, dissolve it, 
and fill up the jars. 

Quincke Jelly. 

Pare and core the quinces ; put them in your kettle, 
cover them with water ; boil until tender ; strain, take the 
parings and cores, put them in your preserving-kettle, boil 
them tender in a little water, strain them to the other syrup. 
To every pound of fruit add one pound of white sugar. 
Let it boil slowly until a stiff jelly 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 275 

Quince Preserves. 

Bake the quinces, then cut them in half, and take cut 
the cores ; sprinkle fine white sugar over them, add some 
milk, and serve hot. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Pare, quarter, and core the quinces; boil the skins in 

water, a teacupful to ever}'- pound of fruit ; when soft, mash 

and sti*ain them, and put the water back into the kettle ; 

add the quinces and boil them quite soft ; rub them through 

a sieve ; add three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every 

pound of fruit ; stir them well together ; boil over a slow 

fire until jellied. Put it into jars, secure it when cold with 

white paper sealed to the edge of the jar with the white of 

an egg. 

Quinces Stewed. 

Pare and core them, put them over the fire, with sufficient 
water to cover them ; when tender, take them out, put in 
the skins and cores, boil them to a pulp, and strain them, 
put back the quinces, stew them gently, and sweeten to taste. 

Strawberries in Wine. 

Put some large berries into a glass jar ; strew over them 
some fine white sugar ; fill up with Madeira or sherry wine. 

Strawberry Jelly. 
Strain the juice from the fruit; add one pound of sugar 
to one pint of juice; when dissolved, place the kettle over a 
clear fire, and stir until it boils ; skim carefully, and let it 
boil from fifteen to twenty minutes ; dip your moulds into 
cold water, strain the jelly into them, and let them cool. 

Table Jelly. 
Soak in cold water, for two hours, two ounces of gelatine, 
then drain off the water, then in two quarts of v^ater put 



276 HAND-BOOK FOB THS KITCHEN. 

one and a half pounds of sugar, and the whites of three 
eggs, juioe of three lemons, peel of one, stick of cinnamoO| 
a little nutmeg, or orange-peel ; stii* well together ; boil for 
five or ten minutes ; strain through a jelly-bag ; put it into 
glasses or moulds. A pint of wine may be added. 

Tomato Pbeserves. 

Dissolve in water one pound of sugar for every pound of 
fruit ; put it over the fire ; put in the tomatoes, some gieen 
giiiger cut small, and slices of lemon ; boil gently until the 
tomatoes are cooked, and strain the syrup ; boil the syrup 
one hour or two until the water is exhausted, then put back 
the tomatoes and let them boil gently until the syrup is 
cooked through them. 

ToMAfo Figs. 

Take yellow iH^matoes ; one pound of white sugar for every 
pound of fruit ; dissolve the sugar in a little water in jour 
preserving-kettle ; put in the fruit and cook them tender ; 
take them out and spread them to dry in the sun on trays ; 
cook the syrup very rich ; take it from the fire ; put in the 
tomatoes ; when cool, dry them as before ; let the syrup get 
hot ; put the tomatoes in again ; let them stand a while ; 
spread them to dry again ; repeat this until they are coated 
with sugar, and the sugar is nearly exhausted ; when thor- 
oughly dry put them away in air-tight jars. 

Tomato Jam. 

Take ofi* the skins and take out the seeds ; boil the fruit 
with sugar, pound for pound ; two lemons, rind and pulp, 
well boiled, to every pound of fruit ; cook as other jams. 

Fruit Jelly. 

Stew one quart of cranberries in two quarts of water; 
sweeten to taste ; pour them in a colander ; put the liquid 



JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 277 

on the fire ; stir in three tablespoonfiils of cornstarch ; let 
it simmer ten minutes ; pour it into your moulds ; set it in 
a cool place. You can use apples, currants, cherries, oi'anges, 
and lemons. 

Simple Wine Jelly. 

Dissolve a package of gelatine in one quart and a pint of 
water ; put in the pulp and skins of two lemons, sweeten to 
taste, two glassfuls of wine, a glassful of brandy ; strain it 
and let it cool ; pour it into your moulds. 

Wine Jelly. 

One pint of water, three ounces of isinglass or gelatine, 
one pound and a quarter of sugar, juice of two lemons ; dis- 
solve and let it come to a boil, then add wine, brandy and 
spice ; strain and put it in your moulds. 

Another Method. 

To one quart of white wine take one pound of lump-sugar, 
reduce the sugar to syrup. Dissolve an ounce and a half of 
isinglass in a little water; strain it and mix while warm 
with the syrup. When nearly cold, pour the wine into it ; 
stir well for a short time ; pour it into your moulds. A 
little cochineal may be added to color it. 



CREAMS, ICE-CREAMS, AND ICES. 



Whipped Ckeak. 

To a quart of cream add & quarter pound of sugar ; Ci- 

wot with orange, vanilla, almonds or whicheTer you prefer. 



CSEAMS, ICE-CKEAMS, AND ICES. 279 

Take a small quantity and wbisk until thick ; put it on a 
sieve or other dish^ and continue the same until 70a have 
frothed the whole ; it is much more easily and quickly done 
than whisking all together. 

Almond Cream. 

One pint cream, one pint milk, one quart water, half a 
lemon-peel grated, three ounces sweet almonds, half an ounce 
bitter almonds blanched and powdered in a mortar ; three 
ounces white sugar, yolks of two eggs well beaten. Dissolve 
two ounces of isinglass in boiling water ; add the water, milk, 
and cream ; stir well, then add the others. Boil all gently 
a few minutes ; strain through a hair strainer ; when cool, 
pour into moulds and put it on the ice until stiif. 

Gooseberry Cream. 

Boil one quart of gooseberries in sufficient water to cover 
them ; stir in half an ounce of butter ; when soft, pulp 
them through the colander ; add the well-beaten yolks of 
four eggs, sweeten to taste. Serve cold with sponge-cake. 

Baspberry Cream. 

To on6 quart of raspberry jam add one quart of cream, 
jnice of a lemon ; sweeten to taste. Whisk until thick. 
Serve in glasses, with cake. 

Baspberry Juice Kept for Cream, etc. 

Boil the raspberries in as little water as possible, just 
sufficient to stai't the heat ; add one pound of sugar to each 
poiind of fruit. Simmer until the sugar is well dissolved. 

Keep in air-tight glass jars for use ; less sugar is better. 

Lemon Cream. 

Dissolve three ounces of sugar in one pint of water ; add 
the juice of two lemons ; strain into a saucepan over the 



280 HANI>-BOOK FOB THE KTTOHKN. 

fire ; when hot, beat in the yolks of five eggs ; stir MntQ 
thick. Serve in glasses. 

WiKE Gbeam. 

Dissolve half a pound of sugar in half a pint of water, 
half a pint of wine, the juice and peel of a lemon ; add one 
ounce of isinglass dissolved in half a pint of water ; strain 
while hot. Stir in gradually one pint and a half of cream. 
Whisk until cool. 

Mock Cbeam. 

To one quart boiling milk add one tablespoonful of com- 
starch, two well-beaten eggs, a little butter. Whisk untU 
thick. Sweeten and flavor fco taste. Serve as cream or 
make into pies. 

Chocolate Cbeah. 

Dissolve a quarter pound of Baker's chocolate in one 
pint of boiling milk ; whisk until thick ; sweeten ; add one 
quart of cream, extract of vanilla to taste; whisk well 
Freeze. (Grated chocolate.) 

Chocolate Ice-cream (Custard). 

Mix the yolks of four eggs with one pint of boiling milk, 
one quarc of cream, four ounces of chocolate dissolved in one 
pint of hot water ; sweeten to taste ; flavor with extract of 
vanilla. Whisk thoroughly over the fire until thick and 
smooth ; when cool, freeze. Use Baker's chocolate. 

Frozen Fruit Custard. 

To two quarts boiling milk add eight eggs, well beaten , 
sweeten to taste, simmer until smooth ; add any fresh or 
dried fruit. Peaches stoned, pared, cut in quarters, stirred 
gently in. Freeze. 



CREAMS, lOE-OSBAHS, AND l^Cm. 281 

Frozen Peaches. 

Peel and cut in quarters the peaches ; add cream and 
sugar to taste. Place the peaches in a mould and freeze. 
Turn out to serve. 

Ice-cream. 

To onn quart of cream add one quart of milk, yolks of 
four well-beaten eggs ; stir over the £re until thick, sweeten 
to taste, flavor with vanilla, cool. Put into the freezer, 
surround the tin with pounded ice and salt, one pail of ice 
to one quart of coarse salt. Move the lever rapidly and 
steadily until evenly frozen. 

Another Method, 

Two quarts of good cream ; sweeten, and flavor with 
vanilla. Freeze. Or one quart condensed milk, one quart 
boiling water ; sweeten, and flavor with vanilla. Freeze. 

Fruit Cream. 

To two quarts of whipped cream, add the same quantity 
of fresh fruit; if too sweet, add the juice of a lemon. 
Sweeten to taste. Freeze. Use preserves same. 

Strawberry Ice-cream. 

Sprinkle the berries with sugar, mash, and rub through a 
sieve. To one pint of juice add half a pint of cream; 
sweeten. Freeze in usual way. When beginning to set, 
stir in lightly one pint of whipped cream, and then some 
whole strawberries. Put it into a mould, surround with 
ice. 

Another Method, 

Warm and mash, one or two quarts of berries ; strai: ; 
to one quart of juice add one quart whipped cream ; sweeten 
to taste. Freeze as flrst. 



282 hand-book fos the kitchen. 

Lemon Ice-cream. 

Simmer the juice of four lemons, and peel of one, with 
two gills of syrup. When cool, add one quart of cream. 
Strain through a sieve. Freeze. 

To Make a Mould of two Kinds. 

Freeze «the creams in two freezers; cut a piece of paste* 
board to fit the centre of the mould, put vanilla cream in 
one side, and strawberry or chocolate in the other ; surround 
the mould with ice and salt for two hours. 

Biscuit Glacis. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs to a pint of hot cream ; stii 
gently; add six ounces of sugar; simmer until smooth; 
cool ; set it in ice ; stir in one pint of whipped cream; flavor 
to taste — vanilla, chocolate, almond, lemon. Make paper- 
cases by folding the comers and sticking them with white 
gum ; scallop the edges and fold them over ; you can obtain 
a block of the size and shape you wish and paste the cor- 
ners neatly, and scallop or fringe the edge. Keep the mix- 
ture on the ice and fill the papers when ready to use them. 

TuTTi Frutti. 

Prepare rich vanilla cream ; put it in the freezer ; move 
it until thickened ; add the candied fruit — cherries, citron, 
orange, and any kind of candied fruits you wish, in quan- 
tity equal to the ice-cream ; mix them with the partly fro- 
zen cream. Freeze. Mould according to taste. 

Milk of Almonds. 

Blanch one pound of almonds, pound them to a paste in a 
mortar, with half a pound of bitter almonds, adding a little 
warm milk ; when sufficiently pounded, mix them with ons 
pint and a half of milk ; stir and strain. Put the liquor in 



OBBAMS, I0E-0REAM8, AND ICES. 283 

a saucepan, and add a stick of cinnamon ; let it boil to a 
cream, stirring constantly ; sweeten and add a little salt 
Keep on ice. 

Water Ices. 

Strawberry Ice. — Squeeze one quart of strawberries to 
two quarts cold water, juice of a lemon ; sweeten to taste. 
Preeze as ice-cream. 

Orange Ice. 
Juice of six oranges and two lemons, one quart of water ; 
sweeten to taste. Freeze. 

Lemon Ice. 

Juice of six lemons ; one quart of water ; sweeten to 
taste. Freeze. 

Pineapple Ice. 

Cut off the skin from two ripe pineapples ; cut in pieces 
and grate or pound them ; add two large lemons, grated, 
to four quarts of cold water ; sweeten to taste ; strain and 
freeze. 

Peach Water Ice. 

Peel and stone the peaches — one dozen large ripe ones ; 
add two quarts of cold water ; press them through a colan- 
der ; sweeten to taste ; add juice of one lemon. Freeze. 

Sherry Ice. 

One quart of sherry wine, two quarts of cold water ; 
sweeten to taste. Freeze. You can use any wine. 

BoMAN Punch. 

Two quarts of boiling milk ; stir in two spoonfuls of 
arrowroot ; grate in a little nutmeg ; sweeten. Let it ( doL 
Add half a pint of good Jamaica rum. Freeze as ioe- 
cream. 



284 



HAND-BOOK FOB THE XTTOHEN. 



I%e foUawing Ic&^reama^ loeiy ete,y were fm^nished by 
0. W. Fackeb, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Vanilla Ice-cbsah. 

When yaniUa-bean is used for flavoring, prepare it by 
cutting in small pieces and boiling in a small quantity of 
milk or cream to extract the flavor; then pour into the 
cream, to which add three-quarters of a pound of white 
sugar to each quart of cream, and strain into the can. One 
bean is sufficient for four quarts of cream. 

Lemon. 

To each quart of cream add the juice and grated rind of 
one lemon for flavor, a third of a pound of sugar. Strain 
into the can. Extracts may be used for flavoring. Flavor 
to taste. 

Pineapple. 

Take one common-sized pineapple ; slice and bruise, and 
sprinkle with pulverized sugar ; let it stand half an hour 
or more, to extract the flavor, then strain into the cream. 
One pineapple is sufficient for four quarts of cream. Use 
half a pound of sugar for each quart of cream. 

Stbawbeeey. 

Take one quart of berries to four quarts of cream, bruise 
them and sprinkle with sugar, and proceed the same as with 
pineapple. In using fruits, always have enough to slightly 
thicken the cream and impart a good flavor. 

Chocolate. 

To each quart of cream one tablespoonful of sweet choco- 
late and a third of a pound of sugar, the chocolate to be dis* 
solved in a small quantity of cream (or water), and ad4^ . 
when the cream is partly frozen. 



cbeams, ice-creams, and ices. 285 

Bisque. 

Half a 4ozen dried macaroons and a third of a pound 
of sugar to each quart of cream ; the macaroons to b^ 
pounded fine and dissolved in a portion of the cream; thon 
add the remainder of the cream. ' 

IcE-cBEAM Made fbom Milk. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot or cornstarch, and 
rub smooth in a cupful of cold milk ; four eggs and three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, well beaten together; then 
bring two quarts of rich milk to the boiling point, and stir 
in the arrowroot ; remove from the fire, and add the eggs 
and sugar, stirring well together ; then set aside to cool. 
In flavoring with vanilla-bean, use half of the bean, boil- 
ing it with the milk. In flavoring with extracts, let it be 
done after cooling. 

Water Ices. 

Oramge, — Use from two to four oranges, according to 
size, to every quart of water. Add one pound of white 
sugar, the yellow skin of an orange, and half a lemon to be 
gi-ated fine and added ; also, the juice of half a lemon to 
every two quarts of water. Strain into the can and freeze 
the same as cream. More oranges improve the flavor. 

Pineapple. — Take one pineapple to two quarts of water. 
Prepare the pineapple the same as for cream. Use one 
pound of sugar to each quart of water. 

Strawberry or Maspherry, — ^Take one quart of berries to 
two quarts of water, and proceed the same as for pine- 
apple. 

jRoman JPn/nch. — Prepare the same as for Orange Water 
Ice, and then add good brandy or Jamaica spirits before 
freezing. 



286 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

Frozen Custard, — To each quart of milk use four eggd 
and half a pound of sugar; beat the eggs and sugar 
together ; after boiling the milk, pour it over the sugar and 
eggs, beating all the same time. Then put it on the fire 
again, and as soon as it thickens, take off and sti'ain into 
the can. Set aside to cool before freezing. 



BRANDY, WINE, ETC. 



Blackberry Brandy. 

Mash ripe berries, and squeeze out the juice through a 
bag. One pound of sugar to one quart of juice. Melt the 
sugar in the juice, tlien boil to a thin jelly. When cold, 
allow one quart of brandy to a quart of juice ; stir well, 
and bottle. While boiling, add cloves, allspice, mace, and 
cinnamon. Excellent to check diarrhcea or summer com- 
plaints. 

Cherry Brandy. 

Take a ten-gallon cask, and fill it with cherries ; pour on 
a gallon of water (boiling), let it stand two or three hours, 
and fill up with brandy ; in a week draw it off; pour on 
another gallon of boiling water, and fill again with brandy ; 
in a week draw it off; take out the cherries; add one pound 
of brown sugar to every gallon of liquid. When dissolved, 
pour it back into the ca£^, adding some water. 

Cherry Wine. 

Take twenty-four pounds of black cherries ; press out all 
the juice possible ; pound the skins and stones in a mortar, 
and put them in the juice. Let it stand twelve hours. Put 
one pound of loaf-sugar in a pan ; strain the juice into it 
through a bag ; extract as much as possible. When the 
sugar is dissolved, put the liquor into bottles, within an 
inch of the cork; cork loosely for two days, then cork 
idghtly. Keep three months before using. 



S88 HAin>-BOOE FOB THB EITCHBN. 

CuREAKT Wine. 

Dissolve in fourteen gallons of water four pounds oi 
honey, and when clarified, add the juice of eighteen pounds 
of red currants. I^et it stand twelve hours, and to every 
gallon of water add one pound of sugar. Then clarify 
witli the whites of eggs. 

Another Method. 

To three quarts of water put three quarts of currant 
juice strained, one quart of brandy, and three pounds of 
sugar ; put it in a covered jar, and let it stand several 
weeks. Strain through a flannel bag, and bottle for use. 

Another Method. 

To every two pounds of currants, add one quart of 
water ; stir well together, let it stand three hours, and 
strain through a sieve ; then for every three pounds of cur- 
rants add one pound of powdered sugar. Stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, boil, and skim well. Let it stand sixteen 
hours. Put it in the cask, and stop close. Twenty gallons 
must stand three weeks ; thirty gallons one month. Put a 
lump of sugar in each bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool 
place. Wine improves by age. 

Elder Wine. 

Boil in six gallons of water five gallons of berries; 
strain the liquor, and make it up to ten gallons as follows : 
Add some water to the berries, and strain it to the other. 
Then add thirty pounds of sugar. Put two or three ounces 
of hops, three-quarters of a pound of ginger-root, five 
ounces of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, into a thin bag ; 
tie loosely ; put the bag in the liquor and boil two hours ; 
when cool, add one pint of yeast ; in two or three days sti'ain 
the liquor in a cask, suspend a bag of spice by a string ; 



B&ANDYy WINE, BTO. 289 

paste some stiff brown papsr over the cask. It will be 
ready in two months. 

Gooseberry Wine. 

Extract the juice ; to every six pounds of fruit add one 
quart of cold water ; stir thoroughly ; let it stand a day, 
then strain ; to every quart of water add two pounds of 
sugar ; let it stand another day ; skim well, pour it into 
another vessel. Let it ferment sixty hours ; cover tight. 
It will be ready to bottle in four months. 

Ginger Wine. 

To one gallon of water add three pounds of sugar, one 
pound of ginger, peel of one lemon, half a pound of stoned 
raisins ; boil for half an hour ; when lukewarm, put it in a 
cask with the juice of a lemon ; add a spoonful of yeast to 
every gallon ; stir it each day for ten days, then add to 
every two gallons half a pint of brandy ; to every six gal- 
lons, half an ounce of isinglass ; close the cask ; in eight 
weeks it will be ready for use. 

Grape Wine. 

Mash ripe grapes, and to a gallon of fruit add a gallon of 
water. Let it stand a week without stirring, then draw it 
off and strain. To a gallon of wine put three pounds of 
siigar ; put it in a clean vessel. 

Ginger Beer. 

Cupful of ginger, pint of molasses, pail and a half of 
water, cupful of yeast. In warm weather make it cold, in 
cold weather scald the ginger with two quarts of hot water, 
and use the rest of the water cold ; add the yeast warm ; put 
into bottles and cork tight. 

13 



s90 hand-book fos thb kttohbn. 

Boot Beeb. 

One pint of bran^ handfoL of hops, some spruce, sassafras* 
roots, dandelions, burdock, etc.; boil and strain; add a 
spoonful of ginger, molasses, and a cup of yeast. 

Sabsapabilla Mead. 

To three pounds of sugar add three ounces of tartaric 
acid, one ounce of cream of tartar, one of flour, one of essence 
of sarsaparilla, and three quarts of water ; strain and bottle ; 
let it stand ten days. 

To Bestorb Acid Beer. 
Stir in a little saleratus, with a spoonful of sugar. 

Cordial, Fbuit. 

Mash the berries ; to one quart add one pound of pounded 
sugar; let it stand until next day; keep it covered ; squeeze 
out the juice through a bag ; to every quart of juice add one 
quart of brandy ; stir well ; cork well, and in a few days it 
will be ready. 

Lemon Cordial. 

Slice half a dozen lemons ; put them into a quart and a 
pint of milk ; boil until the whey is clear, then strain through 
a sieve; add one quart and a pint of brandy, and three 
pounds of loaf-sugar ; stir until the sugar is dissolved ; let 
it stand a while, and bottle; put a little thin peel in each 
bottle. 

COBDIAL. 

Four one quart of boiling water over an ounce of loa^ 
sugar and half an ounce of cream of tartar and the rind of a 
lemon ; when cold, strain. 

Lemon Stbup. 
To two pounds of loaf-sugar add a pint of lemon-juice ; 



BRANDY, WINE, ETC. 291 

l«t it stand a day ; stir frequently ; when dissolved, strain 
through a flannel wet in hot water ; bottle for use. 

Brandy Punch. 

To one pint of brandy add half a pint of Jamaica rum, 
one lemon sliced, half a pound of sugar, and some water. 

Milk Punch. 

Squeeze the juice of three oranges and three lemons upon 
one pound of sugar ; pour on two quarts of water and a pint 
of milk, both boiling ; add half a bottle of brandy ; strain 
until clear ; bottle for use. 

Another Method. 

To a pint of new milk add a wineglassful of brandy ; grate 
in a little nutmeg, and sweeten to taste. In summer, add 
pounded ice. 

Whiskey Punch. 

Slice half a dozen lemons in a quart of whiskey ; add a 
pouud of sugar ; let it stand, and when you wish to use add 
three quai'ts of boiling water. 

Schnapps Punch. 

To one pint of schnapps slice three lemons ; add half a 
pound of sugar ; let it stand ; then add a quart and a pint 
of boiling water. 

Mint Julep. 

To three gills of brandy add two of rum, half a pound of 
sugar; add the mint; fill your bowl half full of pounded 
ice ; cover with water. 

Sherbet. 
To one pint of brandy add a pint of rum ; slice in three 
lemons and three oranges, strawberries, or pineapples ; add 



292 HAND-BOOK FOS TUB KITOHSN. 

one poand of sugar ; let it stand several hours ; fill up with 
pounded ioe ; cover with water ; add some champagne. 

Port Wine Sangakee. 

To one pint of wine add one quart of water ; sweeten to 
taste ; grate in some nutmeg ; put in a lump of ice. 

Hot Bum. 

In two quarts of water boil an ounce of whole allspice ; add 
a pint of rum and sweeten to taste ; a little butter. 

Baspberry Yineoar. 

To a pint of vinegar add three pints of raspberries ; let 
them stand two days, then mash and strain them ; to every 
pint add a pound of crushed sugar ; boil twenty minutes 
and skim ; bottle when cold. 

Cherry Bounce. 

One peck of cherries ; stone, and crack the stones ; put the 
stones and cherries in a demijohn with one pound and a 
half of sugar ; pour in a gallon of whiskey ; cork, and in six 
months will be ready for use. 



COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, ETC. 



To Roast Coffbe. 

Pick it; over ; put it in a coflfee-roaster ; place it for an 
hour or two where it can keep hot, without burning ; then 
put it to brown ; stir constantly. Before taking it from 
the fire, stir in a small lump of butter. Put it into a box 
while hot, and cover close. 

To Make Coffee. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of Java to one of Mocha ; stir a 
little egg and water in it ; pour over it a pint and a half of 
boiling water ; let it stand in a warm place half an hour to 
draw. 

Another Method, 

A quarter of a pound for three people. Grind just be* 
fore you wish to use. Break an egg in it shell and alL 
Mix it into a paste ; put it into your cofiEee-pot with some 
warm water; let it boil up three times; then let it stand 
for a few minutes in a warm place to draw. 

Caf£ au Lait. 

Put a spoonful of cofiEee into a pint of milk ; boil it for 
fifteen minutes with a very little isinglass. Let it stand 
ten minutes, and then pour it off. 



294 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 



Fbbmch Coffee, 

Pat a onpfal of diy coffee in the top of a French coffee-pot, 
ponr slowly over it a pint of boiling water ; let it stand half 
an honr, in a warm place ; then add as much boiling water as 
required. 

BiiAOK Tea. 

Put a capful of tea in a flat-bottomed tea-pot ; poar on a 
quart of water ; let it simmer an hour in a hot place. If de- 
sired, a third part of green tea may be added. 

Qbehn Tea. 

Three teaspoonfols of green tea; poor on it one quart of 
boiling water. Let it stand to draw ten or fifteen minutes. 

Enqijsh Bbbakfast Tea. 

Put two tablespoonf uls of tea in an earthen or silver tea- 
pot ; poTir on one quart of boiling water. Let it stand in a hot 
place to draw (not boil) for fifteen minutes. 

ChOOOIiATB. 

Shave very fine about two inches of a cake of chocolate ; 
pour on it one quart of boiling water ; sweeten with brown 
sugar to taste ; let it boil twenty minutes, stirring meanwhile. 
Add some milk and let it boil up once. 

Ohogolatb. 

Grate two squares of Baker's chocolate into one pint of 
boiling water ; add sugar to taste. Boil gently about ten 
minutes, stirring constantly ; add milk or whipped cream. A 
little white of egg, well beaten, in the top of each cup im- 
proves the appearance. 



COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, ETC. 295 

Cocoa. 

Boil for half an hour two spoonfals of ground ooooa in one 
quart of water; skim. Add three gills of milk, and let it boil 
up once more. 

Cocoa Kernels. 

Should be boiled slowly for two or three honrs, coming to 
a boiling point gradually. 

Shblis. 

Put a teaonpf ul of shells in a quart of boiling water. Boil 
for two or three hours ; scald some milk as for coffee. They 
can be soaked overnight, and boiled in the same water. 

Cbaceed Cocoa. 

One cupful of cocoa to four quarts of boiling water. Let 
it boil quietly for four hours ; keep it in a cool place till 
needed. 



THE STORE-ROOM. 



A HorsEHOLD T^ECEsam, 



THE STORE-ROOM. 297 

To Pbesebyb Beans fob Wiiiteb. 

Pick them when young. Throw into a wooden keg a 
layer of them three inches deep ; sprinkle them with salt ; 
then another layer of beans, and continue the same until the 
keg is nearly full. Do not put on too much salt, cover 
tliem with a plate that will go into the keg, and put a weight 
upon it. Or dry them. 

To Preserve French Beans. 

Pick and blanch them ; dry them in the sun ; when very 
<lry, put them in a dry place. When you wish to use them, 
soak them for two days in lukewarm water. Then blanch 
them and dress as usual. 

To Preserve Corn. 

Pick it when ripe, strip down the husk and take out the 
silk and replace the husk ; put it in a barrel ; make a strong 
pickle such as you use for meat ; place a weight upon it to 
keep it down, and pack it away. When you wish to use 
it, parboil and then boil it, and it will be as sweet as ever. 

To Preserve Eggs. 

Make a solution of gum-arabic, and apply it with a brush 
to the shells. Let them dry, then pack them in dry char- 
coal dust, small end down. 

Another Method, 
Put them down in water and quicklime ; put a Jayer of 
lime on the bottom of the vessel you intend to keep the 
eggs in. You may also dip eggs in varnish, or pack them 
in salt, standing on the small end. 

To Preserve Asparagus. 
Out off the hard part of the stalk, then boil the rest in 
water and salt ; put them into clean water, let them lie 
13» 



298 HAKD-BOOK FOR THE STTCHEN. 

until cold, then take them out and drain them. Put 
them into a vessel ; be careful not to break them ; add some 
salt, whole cloves, sliced lemon, and equal quantities oi 
water and vinegar ; lay a napkin over them covered with 
melted butter. Keep them in a place that is neither hot nor 
cold ; when you wish to serve, dress them in the same man- 
ner as fresh ones. 

To Preserve Hams. 

Take some clean strong lye, made of wood-ashes, and boil 
it down to make the solution stronger than it generally 
runs off. Then dip the hams into it so that they may be 
completely wet, and hang them to dry, or smoke them. 

Lard. 

To melt lard, put it in a jar in a kettle of water and 
boil ; then run it into bladders that have been well cleaned. 
While it is melting you may add a sprig of rosemary. 

Potted Calf's Feet. 

Boil the feet five hours ; take half a pint of the jelly, and 
flavor it with nutmeg, garlic, shallot and pounded ham ; let 
them simmer a few minutes. Cut the feet into small 
pieces, season them with pepper and salt ; dip a mould into 
cold water ; put the meat in, having mixed with it a little 
grated lemon-peel and minced parsley. Then £11 up the 
mould with the jelly. When cold, turn it out. Use the 
remaining jelly for sweet jelly. (See Jellies.) 

To Keep Butter Sweet. 

Pack it hard and tight in kegs of seasoned white-oak ; 
then put the head in, leaving a small hole, in which poui 
brine to fill the vacant space ; to prevent any bad taste, 
the plug for the hole must be made of cypress or bass-vroofl. 



IxiJC B1*OSE-BOOM. 299 

Then place the kegs in hogsheads filled with brine strong 
enough to bear an egg. 

To Fbeshek Stale Bread. 

Dip the loaf in cold water, then put it in the oven, and 
let it get heated through. 

To Keep Fish Fresh. 

The fish must be drawn and the gills removed, and a 
piece of charcoal inserted in their mouths, and two or three 
pieces in the body. If you wish to send them any distance, 
wrap each fish in paper, place them in a box. In this man- 
ner you may keep fish several days. 

To Keep Mushrooms. 

Pickle them and put them in boiling water; let them 
boil once ; then let them drain and cool. When cold, put 
them in an earthen pot ; add some young onions, bay -leaf, 
cloves, nutmeg, mace, and a stick of cinnalnon. Make a 
pickle with water and salt, let it stand for two hours, then 
pour it into your pot ; let it cover the mushrooms entirely ; 
add some clarified butter ; cover the pot closely ; let it cool. 
When you wish to use them, put them in several waters, 
till the salt is all out. 

To Clarify Drippings. 

Put your drippings in a pan, and set it over the fire to 
melt ; when thoroughly melted and ready to boil, put it 
into another pan of boiling water ; stir well with a wooden 
spoon, and then set the pan in a cool place until the next 
day, then the clarified drippings will be floating on top of 
the water. 

To Clarify Cider. 

Mix together one quart each of lime and clean dry ashes, 



300 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

two quarts of new milk. Pour these into a hogshead d 
cider just from the press. In ten hours it will be fit to rack 

To Make Teast. 

Boil a large handful of hops until all their strength is 
obtained ; make a stiff batter of flour and water ; pour OYer 
it through a strainer a quart of the boiling liquid, and stir 
up the batter immediately ; dissolve a teaspoonful of alam 
and add to it ; then add a tablespoonfal of sugar, one of salt 
and one of ginger ; let it stand until only lukewarm ; then 
add a gill of fresh yeast, stir all well together and cover it 
air-tight. It will keep a long time. In making bread a 
small teacupful well stirred from the bottom will do for four 
common-sized loaves. Set the sponge overnight, and add 
warm water and flour early in the morning. As soon as it 
is light enough, work it out stiff in loaves. 

To Extract the Bitteb Quality from Yeast. 

Bake a small piece of bread quite black, and drop it into 
the yeast, or if it is very bitter, put a little bran into a 
small sieve and strain the yeast through it. Or before you 
wish to use the yeast, pour some cold water over it; when 
the yeast sinks, pour the water off 

Frostbitten Fruits and Ybgetables. 
Potatoes, apples, and pears, that have been frostbitten, 
may be recovered by putting them into cold water, when a 
thaw approaches, and letting them remain for some time, 
until, by their plumpness and fairness, you will know that 
the particles of frost are extracted. 

To Keep Worms fbom Dried Fruit. 
Put the fruit in a steamer over a pot of boiling water, 
cover it closely. When the fruit is thoroughly heated, tit 
it up in a clean white bag ; hang it up. 






THE STORE-ROOM. 301 

To Keep Coffee and Tea. 

To keep these good, do not let them stand in tin. Glass 
or earthen vessel, air-tight and kept dry, is best. 

To Pot Pork. 

Cut a leg of pork in pieces, pound them in a mortar ; sea- 
son well with salt and pepper ; mince very fine some rose- 
mary and sage, and mix it with the pork ; put it into a pot 
with a pound of butter and bake it in the oven. 

When done, take it out, drain it well from the gravy, and 

press it down tight in a dry pot. Skim the butter from the 

gravy, clarify enough butter to cover the pork an inch thick, 

then cover the pot with wet paper, and keep it in a cool 

place. 

To Pot Pigeons. 

Season them well with pepper, cayenne, a little mace and 
salt; pack them close in a pan, cover them with butter, 
bake ; when cold, take off the fat, put the pigeons into pots, 
and pour melted butter over them. 

To Pot Veal. 

Pound cold veal in a mortar, and work up with it some 
powdered mace and salt, some lean tongue or ham, minced 
very fine ; put into a pot a layer of the veal, then a layer 
of the tongue ; continue alternately until the pot is filled ; 
be sure to have every layer well pressed down ; pour over 
the top melted clarified butter. 

To Pot Beef. 

Make a brine of a pound of salt, quarter of an ounce 
of saltpetre, and two ounces of coarse sugar. Bub three 
pounds of lean beef with this, and let it remain in the brine 
fifty hours. Drain and dry it, season with black pepper, 
and put it into a pan ; slice half a pound of butter, and 



302 HA17D-BOOK FOB THB XITOHEN. 

laj ixound it; pat a paste crust over it, and let it baki 
slowly four and a lialf hours. Let it get cold, and then cu' 
off the meat ; be careful to separate the stringy pieces frou 
it ; pound it in a mortar, and work up with it four ounce: 
of fresh butter, and some of the gravy that comes from tht 
meat while baking. Season with ground allspice, a littl( 
mace and pepper. When it is all worked up to a smooti 
paste, put it into jars and cover with clarified butter. If 
you wish to keep it any length of time, cover the jars with 
bladder skin. 

To Pot Hebbings* 

Take large, fine, fresh ones ; powder well two ounces of 
salt, one ounce of saltpetre, two oiinces of allspice ; when 
well powdered, rub them well into the herrings ; let them 
remain eight hours to drain ; wipe them clean ; rub a pan 
with butter, and put the herrings on it ; season with nut- 
meg, mace, pepper, salt, and one powdered clove, about one 
ounce each, two or three bay-leaves ; cover with butter, and 
bake gently three hours ; when cool, drain. Pack the fish 
in pots ; cover with melted clarified butter half an inch 
thick ; they will be ready in two days. 

To Pot Fresh Meat. 

Take out the bones, and mince the meat very fine ; season 
highly with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace. Put it into a 
pot ; put a layer of thin slices of bacon between each layer 
of meat ; fill up the pot with butter. Bake four hours ; 
then pour off the butter and the fat ; put the meat in a fresh- 
glazed pot, and cover it an inch thick with clarified butter. 
Seal air-tight. 

Potted Cheese. 

Take six ounces of Cheshire cheese, one and a half ouncet 
of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, a 
little ground mace, and a large wineglassful of white wine« 



THE STORE-BOOM. 303 

First pound the cheese very fine ; then mix all the ingredi- 
ents with it ; press it down in a deep pot for use. 

TiKCTUBE OF Lemon-feel. 

Take a wide-mouthed pint bottle ; fill it half full of good 
brandy ; pare lemon-rind thin, and put it into the brandy. 
In two weeks it will be ready for use. A teaspoonful will 
be enough for a good flavor. 

To Pkepare Benhtet. 

Take the stomach of a calf, without washing it ; hang it 
in a dry, cool place for four or five days ; then turn it inside 
out ; slip off all the curd ; fill it with a little saltpetre, mixed 
with salt ; place it in a small stone pot ; pour over it a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, sldjA sprinkle a handful of salt over it, 
and cover close. In six or eight weeks, cut a piece four or 
five inches long ; put it in a vessel that holds one and a half 
pints. Pour on five gills of cold water, and two gills of 
rose brandy ; stop it very close, and when you wish to use 
it, shake it well. A tablespoonful is sufficient for a quart 
of milk. This must be prepared in cool weather. 

To Clarify Sugar. 

Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, and to each pound 
add half a pint of water, and the white of an egg to every 
four pounds ; stir all together until the sugar is dissolved ; 
then place it over a slow fire ; stir occasionally and skim it. 
When it has boiled up a few times, take it from the fire a 
short time to prevent the sugar from running over. Skim 
it until only a slight foam arises. 

Pickle fob Hams. 

Nine pounds of rock salt, six ounces of saltpetre, three 
pints of molasses, to one hundred pounds of beefl 



804 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

To Cure Hams. 

The leg of a well- ted hog of not less than one year old. 
Sprinkle some salt over it, and let it drain for one day ; theo 
add one pound of bay salt, and one pound of sugar, a pound 
and a quarter of common salt, and four ounces of saltpetre ; 
rub it thoroughly with this ; lay the skin downward, and 
cover the fleshy parts with salt ; dip the brine over it fre- 
quently, and turn every day. Leaye it in the brine about 
four weeks ; drain it, and rub some bran over it ; hang it in 
a cool place to dry. It is ready for the smoke-house, or to 
use as green ham. 

Sew it up in a coarse linen bag, and coat it with lime. 
Keep it for three months. 

To Smoke Hams. 

Hang the ham in a chimney where wood is burned, and 
where a smothering fire can be kept up, which can be made 
of straw or horse litter, oak shaving or sawdust ; must not 
use pine. Smoke for two weeks. 

Pickle for Hams (Westphalia). 

Rub the hams with common salt ; drain them well ; mix 
one ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of coarse sugar, half a 
pound of common salt ; rub well over the ham. Let it 
stand three days, turning the ham, then pour over it one 
quart of vinegar. 

Pickle for Ham. 

Rub the ham with salt ; let it drain one day. Mix the 
following powder : half a pound of common salt, half a 
pound of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of 
black pepper mixed with a gill of molasses. Rub the ham 
well in this for several days, then let it stand, turning the 
ham for ten days. Hang the ham in a cool place to dcy. 
Smoke. 



i 

J 



THE STOBE-EOOM. 305 

To CuliE Mutton Ham. 

Dissolve in hot water a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, 
half a pound of brown sugar. Rub well into the ham, hot. 
Leave them one night ; rub well with common salt ; leave it 
one week, turning often ; add more salt, turn it, and leave 
it one more week. Hang it up to dry in a cool place. Sew 
it in canvas bags. In curing this mutton, raise the ham 
above the brine, basting it. They require about ten days 
for curing. 

To Cure a Leg of Pork. 

Mix one quart of common salt with the same of bay salt, 
one pound of brown sugar, one ounce of saltpetre pounded 
very fine and heated. Hub the pork with some of this, hot ; 
spread the remainder over it ; leave it for three days, after- 
ward turn it in the pickle every day for two weeks. Hang 
it up in a cool place to dry, then smoke it for three days. 

To Pickle Pork. 

Gnz up the pork; take out the large bones. Rub the 
pieces with saltpetre, common salt and bay salt in equal 
parts; put your pieces of pork in your tub one over the 
other closely ; spread common salt over each piece ; fill up 
the hollows with salt ; add more as the salt melts. 

To Make Boloona Sausages. 

Parboil three pounds of lean beef ; three pounds leg of 
pork, two pounds of fat pork. Mince very fine, add one 
and a half pounds of suet minced. Add one part savory, 
one of thyme, one of pennyroyal, one of red sugar, making 
in all about two ounces ; shred very fine. Add some nut- 
meg grated ; cinnamon, cloves and mace ground ; about six 
drachms in all ; mix well with the minced meat, pound all 
in a mortar, put them in sausage casings, cut or tie in lengths 
you wish, and hang them to smoke three or four days. 



806 HA17D-B00K rOB THE XTTOHKN. 

Sausaoe-meat. 

Ohop the fresh pork fine, mixing one pound of fkt to two 
pounds of lean ; add two teaspoonfuls of black pepper, one 
of ground doves, one of powdered sage, five of salt. 

Plain Bausage-mbat. 

Chop lean fresh pork, three pounds, with a little fat 
Season with two teaspoonfuls of black pepper, five of salt 
Mix well through. 



THE LAUNDRY. 



Observations. 

To have clothes washed well, it is necessary to have the 
best articles to do it with. Therefore, in this department, 
I think I should mention, for the convenience of purchasers 
and young housekeepers, the articles that from our experi* 
ence prove to be the best. 

Colgate's Lauitory Soap. 

In using this you do not require soda. When there are 
spots to be removed put some washing fluid in the boiler as 
directed. 

Duryea's Satin Gloss Starch 

Gives a glossy finish and renders fabrics durable. Is easily 
used, is economical and certainly the best article of the 
kind. 

Blueing. 

I can highly recommend ^^ Patch Blue." Some of the 
others make the clothes too blue even when using a very 
little, and others have some ingredient that is injurious. 

Of course the above is for the inexperienced and to save 
trouble of trying different articles. 



808 HAND-BOOK FOB THB KITOHBN. 

Pbbpabatiov fob SoFTByiNO Watbb and FAdUTATOra 
Washing Clothing, Paint, etc. 

One pound of washing soda, half a pound of chloride of 
lime, four quarts of water ; mix thoroughly and keep in a 
stone jar in a eool place. One cupful in ten gallons of 
water, boiling, after the loose dust has been removed from 
the clothing by washing and soaking overnight. 

To Wash Clothing. 

JEtefined borax instead of soda is sometimes better for fine 
clothing, and a little ammonia in the boiling is effective in 
removing any odor from clothing, especially in summer; 
rinse thoroughly in plenty of water. 

Another Method, 

Mix two ounces of turpentine, with half an ounce of spirits 
of sal anmioniac. Dissolve half a pound of soap in four 
quarts of warm water, add the mixture. Put the clothes 
in tepid water overnight, with one pint of the mixture in 
the water ; when washed, rinse thoroughly. 

Printed Muslins. 

Dissolve one pound of soap in two pails of boiling water, 
when cool, wash your muslins, rinse well ; starch and dry 
in the shade; wash them in the morning, and dry thor- 
oughly before taking them from the clothes-line. A little 
salt in the water is said to be good to prevent fading ; in the 
last rinsing put a little starch or white glue. 

Calicoes. 

Wash them in cold water and soap. Dry quickly. Cot 
gate's laundry soap is the best. 



THE LAUNDRY. 300 

To Wash Woollen Goods. 

Woollen goods must be washed in very hot suds and 
rinsed thoroughly. 

To Wash Lace. 

Cover a bottle with clean muslin, then tack the lace 
smoothly upon it ; rub it with soap, and cover it with mus- 
lin. Boil in soft water twenty minutes ; stand the bottle 
in the sun, and let all dry together. 

To Restore Color in Prints — Green or Black. 
Dissolve in your rinsing water a small lump of alum. 
i2«f.— Add a little vinegar to your rinsing water. 

Mildew. 

Dissolve a little salt of lemon in the water, let the cloth- 
ing lie in it a short time, then hang in the sun, and rinse 
the acid out. 

Or dip the stained spot in some of the solution, and hang 
in the sun. 

Mildew from Linen. 

Rub the linen well with soap ; then rub it with fine 
chalk scraped ; lay it on the grass and wet it a little, while 
it is drying, and the mildew will soon come out. 

ATioiher Method, 

Dissolve some chloride of lime in water ; dip the linen 

in it and lay it upon the grass in the sun. Rinse in cold 

water. 

Another Method. 

Mix some soft-soap with powdered starch, half as much 
salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay it on both sides of the 
mildewed part with a brush ; let it remain on the grass un- 
til the spots come out. 



310 hand-book for tub kitchen. 

Iron Mould. 

Mix together some muriatic acid, oxalic acid, and salt 
of lemon ; apply it to the spots, and lay the article in the 
sun. Then rinse it well, until no acid taste renudns ; or a 
strong solution of salt of lemon saturating, then expose to 
the sun ; repeat if necessary. 

SCOBCHIKG FROM LiNEN. 

One quart of vinegar, juice of half a dozen large onions, 
one ounce of rasped soap, a quarter of a pound of fuller^s 
earth, one ounce of lime, one ounce of pearl-ash. BoL 
until pretty thick ; lay some upon the scorched part ; let it 
dry ; repeat the process for one or two washings. 

To Bleach Clothes. 

One pound of chloride of lime ; put into a stone jar, and 
pour on a gallon of water ; stir well with a stick for fifteen 
minutes ; then let it settle and pour off the clear liquor into 
clean bottles, and cork it up for use. Add a tumblerful to 
your rinsing water. 

Bluing. 

One ounce of soft Prussian blue, powdered, and put in a 
bottle, with one quart of clear rain-water ; add quarter of 
an ounce of oxalic acid. Use a teaspoonful for a laige 
washing. 

Starch fob Fine Muslins. 

Isinglass or nice gum-arabic, instead of starch, is best 
for fine muslins ; it makes them appear new. 

Starch Polish. 

Melt one ounce of spermaceti and one ounce of white wax; 
run it into a thin cake upon a plate ; add a piece the sue 
of a copper cent to a quart of prepared starch. It will giye 



THX LAI7NDBT. 311 

a fine lustre to the dothes, and prevent the iron' from stick 
ing. 

■ 

To Make Glossy Shirt Bosoms* 

Put into a pitcher two ounces of white gum-arabic ; pour 
on it a pint of water ; cover the pitcher and let it stand 
all night. In the morning filter it carefully from dregs, into 
a clean botUe*; cork it and keep for use. 

A valuable recipe for young housekeepers to save. 

To Wash ajstd Dry Lacb Curtains. 

Fold the curtains double and fold again ; baste the edges 
togethez all round, put them in water with a little soda, and 
let them soak several hours; squeeze them out and wash 
them thoroughly in two or three waters. Put them in your 
wash-boiler with some towels under them, and scald them in 
clean soap-suds until the stains are out ; rinse them well, 
squeeze them dry, pour warm, stiff starch over them, squeeze 
out superfluous liquor, and spread them on sheets pinned to 
the floor ; stretch them evenly and carefully, pinning every 
two or three inches. They are ready for use when dry, and 
if handled carefully, will last a long time and bear many 
washings. 

To Wash and Iron Window-shades. 

Wash them as any white cloth; pull and shake them 
straight when hanging them to dry. After sprinkling them 
and leaving them to dampen as others, straighten them to fit 
the rollers on which they are to be used, being careful to keep 
the threads straight. Iron them with the same oare. 



FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 



Oabpets 

Should be shaken often to preserve them. Some carpeli 
will bear scrubbing and rinsing to wash out spots. 

Faded Cabpets. 

To restore the color moisten with a few drops of hartshorn 
and water, softly rubbing. Or beef-gall and water, washing 
ihe surface. 

To Clean Carpets. 

One pint of ammonia, one pint and a half of water, and 
two ounces of borax ; mix well. A little lemon-juice will 
take out ink-stains. Or beef-gall mixed with warm water 
will cleanse and restore the color. 

To Sweep Carpets. 

Sprinkle over the carpet some damp tea-leaves; if the 
carpet is very dirty, use a whisk-brush, and then a hair- 
brush. Or sprinkle over a little damp Indian-meal, and 
sweep as before. 

Polish for Furniture. 

Half a pound of beeswax, quarter of an ounce of alkanet 
root ; melt them together in a saucepan, then add half a gill 
of linseed oil and half a giU of spirits of turpentine ; straii 
through coarse muslin. 



FOB H0USEKEE1*EK8. 313 

To Take White Spots from Furniture. 

Hold a shovelful of hot coals over the spots. Do not 
bold it near enough to bum, an4 while warm rub the place 
Kith flannel. 

To Take Stains from Mahogany. 

Spirit of salt, six parts ; salt of lemon, one part ; mix and 
drop a little on the stains ; rub continually. 

To Remove Grease Spots from Boards. 

Make a stiff paste of fuller's earth and boiling water ; 
spread it immediately over the spots at night ; in the morn- 
ing scour well with hot water ; if the spots are not removed 
immediately, apply the fuller's earth again. Use strong 
solution of soda. 

To Clean Paint. 

To one pound of soda add half a pound of chloride of lime ; 
dissolve in four quarts of water ; stir well ; when it settles, 
put a teacupful in a pailful of water ; wash the paint with 
it. Colgate's soap is the best for cleaning paint. 

To Clean Wall Paper. 
Rub it well with wheat-bran. 

To Clean Marble. 

Pound fine a quarter of a pound of whiting and a smaU 
quantity of stone-blue ; dissolve in water an ounce of soda ; 
mix with a quarter of a pound of soft-soap ; put it into an 
earthen pot and boil fifteen minutes over a slow fire, stir- 
ring carefully. While quite hot lay it with a brush upon 
the marble ; let it remain half an hour ; wash it off with 

warm water, flannel, and scrubbing-brush ; wipe dry. 
14 



314 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITOUJCN. 

To ExTiKQUisn FiRB IK A Chimney. 

Throw some powdered brimstone on the fire in the gra^e ; 
put a board in front of the fireplace ; the vapor of the brim- 
gtone ascending the chimney will extinguish the fire. 

To Destroy Roaches. 

Stir up some Costar's paste in molasses, and spread it en 
brown paper; place it around the places frequented by 
roaches. 

Poison for Bugs. 

Use corrosive sublimate thoroughly with a brush. 

Diamond Cement. 

Boil in water to the consistency of cream a quarter of 

an ounce of isinglass ; add a tablespoonful of spirits of wine ; 

use warm. 

Cement. 

Mix together the white of an egg and some fine quick 

lime. 

China Cement. 

Dissolve half an ounce of gum-acacia in a wineglassfdl 
of boiling water; add plaster-of-Paris to make a thick 
paste ; apply it with a brush. 

To Take Stains from Ivory. 

Make a paste of a little prepared chalk, with sweet oil 
and sal volatile ; rub it on wet with a piece of wash leather ; 
when diy, brush it off. 

To Clean Silver. 

Rub well with a piece of fiannel moistened with sweet 
oil ; then wash with soap-suds ; when dry, rub with cham- 
ois skin and whiting. 

Use Colgate's Housekeeper's Soap. 



FOB HOnSKKEEPERS. 815 

To Clean Glass ob Silver. 

Wash well with hot soap-suds, and rinse with cold water ; 
wipe dry with chamois skin. 

Bbitanndl 

Rab well with powdered whiting, moistened with alcohol, 
or wash well with " Pride of the Eatchen " and hot soap- 
suds. 

To Remove Bust from Steel. 

Rub well with sweet oil, and in two days rub with pul- 
verized, unslaked lime, until the rust disappears. 

To Make Nice White Soap. 

Dissolve some good potash in about one pound to one 
gallon of water ; when hot, add five pounds clean grease ; 
mix well, stirring over the fire ; add two gallons of watep; 
simmer ; when the foam rises, skim until the top contin- 
ues level ; when thick and jelly like, which will take several 
hours' slow boiling, pour it into a tub and let it cool ; when 
hard and cold, cut it in bars and let it harden. To the 
foam, etc., which you skim off, add some potash and water 
for softrsoap (boil it). 

Iron, 

When new, must be heated gradually at first, to prevent it 
firom breaking. 

To Keep Iron or Steel from Rusting. 

Heat it, then rub it with white wax, and polish witn a 
piece of cloth or soft leather until it shines. 

Brass Kettles. 

Before using, clean them thoroughly with vinegar and 
salt. 



316 hand-book fob the kitohbn. 

Tea-kettles. 

To prevent the formation of crusts, keep an oyster-sheU 
in the kettle. 

To Clean Metals. 

Scrape a little rotten-stone ; mix together half a pint of 
neatVfoot oil with half a gill of turpentine ; wet a woollen 
rag in this ; dip it in the stone and rub the metal well ; 
wipe with a soft cloth, polish with soft leather, and then 
use more of the stone. 

To Tempbb Eabthenware. 

Put it in water and heat it gradually until it boils; 
while heating, throw in a handful of bran ; then let it cooL 

Soft-soap. 

Sixteen quarts of strong lye, eight pounds of clean grease, 
one pound and a half of rosin ; pour the whole into a large 
kettle, and boil it ; if it rises, add a little strong lye, and 
continue doing so until all is well mixed ; take it from the 
fire, and add gradually some weak lye, stirring. 

Pride of the Kitchen 
Is the very best article for cleaning tins and britannia. 

To Wash Bottles. 

Put in some shot or small gravel with warm water, soap 
and soda; shake it well and whisk with a bottle-brash; 
sometimes you must use alcohol. 



DYEING. 



To Dte a Maddeb Eed. 

Put upon the fire in a brass kettle two gallons of water ; 
when heated, put in three ounces of alum and one ounce 
of cream of tartar ; let it come to a boil. Then put in the 
cloth and boil two hours ; then rinse it in cold water ; 
empty the kettle and put in as much water as before ; add 
three ounces of madder, rub it fine before putting in the 
cloth ; heat the water and put in the cloth ; let it remain 
one hour ; keep a steady heat, moving constantly ; let it 
boil fifteen minutes, then air and rinse. Three ounces of 
madder, three ounces of alum, and one of cream of tartar, 
for each pound of cloth, and two gallons of water for all. 

Scarlet. 

Make a solution of alkaline ; dip the cloth in it, then dip 
it in cochineal dye, and let it remain some time ; then rinse 
in cold water, and dry it. 

Orange Color. 

Dip the goods in a strong solution of annotta, boiled in 
Boda, until of a deep yellow ; then take it out and wash it ; 
put it for ten minutes in diluted sulphuric acid ; let it be 
moderately sour. Wash the silk again and dry it ; let it 
drain ; do not wriug. 



318 hand-book for thb eitghkn. 

Lemok Color and Greek. 
Steep in water some peach-leaves, bark scraped from a 
barberry bush, saffron, a little alum, a little gum-arabic ; 
put the goods in while hot ; let them remain a day and a 
night, turn occasionally ; take them out and rinse ; drain 
them dry. To make green add chemic blue by degrees 
until of the right shade. 

To Dye Blue. 

Put into a brass kettle a solution of five parts of alum, 
three parts of tartaric acid, for thirty-two parts of cloth. 
Boil the cloth in this 'one hour ; then put it in warm water 
that has been mixed with chemic blue. 

BoH it in this water until the right shade. 

Black Dte. 

Tie a pound of logwood chips in a bag; boil several 
hours in water ; put the article to be dyed in the solution, and 
boil gently for two or three hours ; let it stand one day ; be 
careful to stir the article frequently ; take the piece out, 
and let it hang to drip ; put one ounce of copperas in your 
dye ; stir thoroughly, and sti*ain. Dip the articles in, turn- 
ing and raising them, for fifteen minutes ; take them out ; 
let them hang until dry. Then rinse them in warm suds 
and milk ; let them drain stretched out as plain as possible ; 
press them with a damp cloth. 

You can obtain logwood extract to which you can add 
some indigo sewed in a bag, and when the dye is made, 
strain and boil the article in the dye ; let them drip and 
press with a damp cloth. 

Or put half a pound of logwood chips in four quarts of 
water ; let it boil until all the strength is exhausted ; strain 
it. To renew &ded black articles, put them in the hot dye, 
and let them boil, turning and raising, one day ; take them 
out, let them dry, and press with a damp black cloth. 



J 



THE WARDROBE. 



To Behove Paint fbom Cloth. 

Hot soap-suds will remove any fresh spots without injur* 
log the cloth ; spirits of turpentine will dissolve and remove 
dry paint ; spirits of ammonia is also good. 

To Extract Marking and Machine Oil. 

For white goods a strong solution of salt of lemon applied 
and put before the fire or in the sunshine, chloride of lime, 
afterwards spirit of ammonia, wash and rinse thoroughly 
afterwards. 

To Keep Moths from Fur. 

Wrap them with some cloves and black pepper; keep 
them in a paper or box suspended. 

To Clean Colored Kid Gloves. 

Put the glove on your hand if you have not a mould ; dip 
a small clean sponge in benzine (or chlorine), and rub from 
the wrist until clefin. 

To Clean Gloves Slightly Soiled. 

Put on the gloves, and dip the sponge in milk, and rub 
the spots gently ; a piece of white flannel is said to be best ; 
a soft crust of bread and meal is sometimes sufficient; a 
flannel with a little spirits of turpentine will erase spots, or 
a crust and cream of tartar. 



320 hand-book fob the kitchbn. 

Several Wats of Keeping and Cleaning Black Silk. 

The best way to keep or clean silk is to rip out the plaits 
or gathers, and smooth all the creases; wrap in brown 
paper. 

To Clecm Black Silk: Dissolve some glue or gum in 
Water ; make a weak solution ; take the silk on a table and 
rub it clean; rinse it and rub it with a velvet cushion, 
moistened with a very little oil ; if the breadths are straight, 
tack them to a table or frame to dry without ironing, other- 
wise either iron them on the inside, or with some thin cloth 
over between the silk and iron. 

Or prepare a cleaning fluid by simmering old black kid 
gloves in water ; spread the silk and wash it with a sponge 
with the liquid ; dress it with the oiled cushion as before. 
Old alpaca is cleaned the same way. A good way, if you 
have a good laundry, is to wash the dress through warm 
soap-suds ; rinse it ; sprinkle and iron on the inside. All- 
wool goods can be done this way successfully. 

To Cleanse Silk. 

Put some soft-soap in some brandy and gin ; mix smoothly 
and strain ; rub the mixture on each side of the silk with a 
sponge ; hang it to get nearly dry ; iron it on the inside ; if 
not very dry, sponge it with cologne, and iron it on the in- 
side. 

Another Method to Cleanse Dresses. 

Grate four good potatoes in two quarts of water; sponge 
the parts separately, and iron it on the inside. 

To Take out Creases from Velvet. 

Hold the wrinkled parts over a steamer of boiling water, 
back of the velvet down ; the nap will ris6, if not very bad ; 
Hry the velvet by passing the back over a hot cylinder or hoi 






THE WABDBOBE. 321 

iron ; this will generally take out the most inveterate creases 
or rain-drops. 

To Take Creases from Cloth. 

Mix six ounces of spirits of wine, ten grains of carbonate 
of potash, half an ounce of oil of bergamot, one ounce of sul- 
phuric ether ; mix them thoroughly in a bottle^ and keep for 
use. 

Another Method. 

Dip a black or other cloth in hot soap-suds; wring it 
partly dry ; place it over the cloth and iron it until the cloth 
is dry ; use black cloth to black material ; this will not only 
smooth the wrinkles, but take off the worn glaze from the 
surface. 

To Behove Grease. 

Dissolve some soap in boiling water ; rub it on the spots 
and rinse the article well in hot water ; continue until the 
spots are removed. 

Another Method, 

Scrape carbonate of magnesia on the spots, and cover them 
with brown wrapping-paper ; set an iron medium heat on ; 
this will remove the grease from some goods. 

To Bestore the Surface of Cloth. 

Rub carefully with a sponge dipped in spirits of hartshorn 
collar and cuffs of coats, etc 
14* 



THE TOILET. 



For Hardened Skin and Wrinkles. 

Any good purgative (compound cathartic pills are gene^ 
ally good). Hub the skin well with sweet oil at night, or 
an ointment made as follows : put some castor oil to boil, 
and while boiling grate in an equal quantity of pure white 
tallow ; add rose or any perfume ; warm at night and apply 
to the skin ; rub dry ; then apply any fine toilet powder in 
the morning. 

Sunburn. 

Wash with buttermilk in which a little fresh tansy has 
been left a few hours ; if badly burned, melt some clean mut- 
ton-tallow, and apply it with old linen. 

To Remove Pimples. 

Make a weak solution of sugar of lead, and bathe the in- 
flamed spots, or wet starch in cold water and cover the erup- 
tion. 

The redness of the skin and various inflammation often ii 
caused by the condition of the blood ; a little Epsom or Bo- 
chelle salts in lemonade or citrate of magnesia will often 
prove effectual. 

Camphorated Ointment. 

Two ounces of olive oil, half am ounce of white wax, elev* 
en grains of camphor, three drachms of spermaceti ; heat 
the oil to boiling ; grate and stir in the wax and spermaceti ; 



I 



THE TOILET. 323 

when cool, dissolve the camphor, and mix well with the 
others. To be nsed for chapped hands. 

To Keep thb Hands fbom Ghaffino. 

Wash them well with Colgate's or other fine glycerine soap ; 
then, after diying them well, rub on a very little rose-water 
and glycerine or olive-oil, and at night wear a pair of soft kid 
or chamois gloves. 

Honey and AiiBiond Paste. 

The juice of one lemon, one ounce of oil of almonds, and a 
tablespoonful of honey, beaten to a smooth paste. 

To Bemove FbeokiiES. 

Half an ounce of lemon-juice, quarter of a drachm of borax, 
half a drachm of sugar ; mix well together ; let it stand a few 
days until quite clear. Bub it softly on the face occasionally. 

Tooth Powder. 

Two ounces of Peruvian bark, two ounces of myrrh, one 
ounce of prepared chalk or fine charcoal. 

To Strengthen the Hair and to Beautify rr. 

Steep half an ounce of colocynth in half a pint of Jamaica 
rum; let it stand three days, then strain, bottle, and cork. 
Apply with a sponge two or three times a week. 

POIIADE. 

Melt four ounces of beefs marrow, one ounce of white wax, 
six ounces of lard ; stir while hot ; perfume while cooling. 



824 HAND-BOOK FOR THB KITGHBN. 

Another Method. 

Oupfol of lard, two tables j)oonfuls of (astor oil, yolk of 
one egg well-beaten ; melt together ; perfume. 

To Make the Hair Grow. 

One ounce of cologne, one drachm tincture cantharides, 
five drops rosemary, same of lavender. Mix. Bub the 
scalp well, then brush. 

Another Method. 

One pint good brandy, four tablespoonfuls castor oil, one 
of ammonia, two or three small pieces of blood-root. Mix. 
Bub well on the roots, then brush. 

To Clean Hair-brushes. 

Dissolve tablespoonful of pearl-ash in pint of boiling water. 
Wash the brush with this, using a soft sponge. When quite 
clean rinse in warm water. 

Lavender Water. 

One pint spirits of wine, one ounce oil of lavender, two 

drachms essence of ambergris ; put into a bottle and shake 

well. 

Aromatic Vinegar. 

Put some acetate of potash into a smelling-bottle; mix 
with it gradually half its weight of sulphuric acid, a few 
drops of oil of lavender. 

Cahfhor Ice. 

Compound camphor ice, with glycerine and carbolic acid, 
is good for chapped lips and hands, and for sunburn or tan. 

Inflamed Eyes. 

Bathe the eyes with tepid water, with a little laudanum oi 
sugar of lead mixed with water. 






THE TOILET. 326 

Tender Feet. 

Bathe the feet in hot water with a little borax or soda ; 
rub well and scrape off hardened skin. Bub with spirits of 
turpentine, then apply mutton-tallow on old linen. 

A Wonderful Hair Bestorer. 

Two drachms sugar of lead, one drachm lac sulphur, two 
ounces glycerine, half a pint rosewater, half a pint rain- 
water. Mix thoroughly. 

I can recommend the above, as I have seen the effect. 
Can be used for light hair. F. Neely. 



• i 



THE NURSERY. 



Obsebvations on Baby Food. 

Condeneed milk is generally constipating, but as freA 
milk cannot always be obtained, and condensed milk is very 
nourishing, it would be best to vary the diet with rice, oat- 
mealy barley, cracker jelly, etc. 

Babies are always troubled more or less with pains caused 
by indigestion, particularly when fed on boiled milk. Catnip 
tea is excellent in such cases. By putting a teaspoonful of 
magnesia in the tea, while steeping, the pains will be re- 
lieved. 

Arrowroot. 

Mix a tablespoonful of arrowroot in cold water, and stir 
it into boiling water or milk to a thin jelly. 

Cracker Jelly. 

Roll very fine butter or milk crackers ; put about three 
crackers to one pint of water ; boil gently for half an hour ; 
sweeten to taste. In case of bowel complaint you can use 
milk instead of water, but milk is not generally good 
Sweeten to taste. 

Cream mixed with warm water is very valuable for 
delicate children. 



the nurbeby. 32? 

Cornstarch. 

Stir one tables()Oonful of cornstarch in a little water, and 
beat it into one pint of boiling water or milk ; sweeten ; 
simmer until it becomes a smooth jelly. 

Barley Watbr. 

Simmer one ounoe of barley a short time to soften it ; 
then pour off the water and put one quart of cold water on, 
with a little salt. Simmer until soft. 

For gruels, see Sick-room. 

Thickened Milk for Bowel Complaint. 

Tie a cupful of wheat-flour tightly in a cloth, and boil in 
milk about three hours. When cool, grate some of it in milk 
and simmer imtil quite thick. A ball of the flour can be 
kept for use. 

Teething and Consequent Fever and Pain. 

Bathe the child, and rub with the hand, from the back 
of the neck to the extremity of the spine. Keep the bowels 
open. Castor oil is used ; but a little magnesia, mixed with 
catnip-tea, is better. 

Bub the gums with honey ; at night rub the back. 

In most cases, simple homoBopathic remedies are very 
effective. Camamilla for soothing irritation in time of teeth- 
ing is remarkably successful. 

Croup or Asthma. 

Where there are young children, it is best to keep some 
remedies ready, especially in cold weather, for asthma or 
croup ; if you administer, on first appearance of difficulty in 
breathing, hepar sulphur prepared by homoeopathists, ii 
will prevent the attack and give time for other nursing 



828 HAND-BOOK FOR THB KITOHElf. 

Oyemight wrap a oloth wet in cold water around the thruat| 
oyer that, flannel. 

Whoopino-cough. 

See Sick-room. 

When strangling, throw back the head and pour a little 
ice-water in the throat. 

Fits or Contulsions. 

While waiting for a physician, put the child in a warm 
bath ; bathe the head with cold water, pour a stream of cold 
water down the back, and rub all parts with the hand. 
Keep the bath warm. 

Chicken-pox. 

Keep the child in bed ; keep the room cool ; give cooling 
drinks — lemonade with a little .salts dissolved in it. 

Feybb. 

Keep the child in an upper room, well ventilated, darkened 
and quiet. Exclude unpleasant odors, give cool water, in 
small quantities, to moisten the mouth. 

Scarlet Fever. 

Keep the room cool, change the linen often, give cooling 
drinks ; toast-water is good. 

Sore Throat or Asthmatic Attack. 

Saltpetre balls, held in the mouth a short time, will re- 
lieve; apply cold water externally Potash lozenges are 
excellent. 

Measles. 

Give cooling drinks ; keep the bowels open. Be careful 
cot to let the child take cold. 



THE SICK-ROOM. 



QBSEBYATI027S. ' 

The siok-Toom, whether for adults or children, shonld be 
well ventilated, neat, and cheerful, particularly for nervous or 
excitable patients. Cooling drinks, bathing the palms of 
hands and hollow of the feet, in fevers. 

Warm, pleasant, and harmless teas, as orange-flower, winter- 
green, sassafras, or any agreeable herb, changed often, are 
very soothing. 

Strong, energetic constitutions require stronger medicines 
for attacks of constipation. Ck>mpound cathartic pills are 
almost always sufficient. 

Humphrey's Specifics for persons not accustomed to taking 
powerful medicines are very useful. 

Those subject to coughs and colds should wear warm stock- 
ings in winter, also a chest-protector, and should be careful 
to change their flannels at night, wearing a lighter set than 
during the day. It is not best to leave them off entirely. 
Often a little sweet-oil rubbed on the chest or throat will re- 
lieve pain and prevent an increase of the cough. Keep the 
head warm at night. 



330 HAND-BOOK FOB THE KITCHEN. 

Ck)UaHB AND OoiiDB. 

For oonghs and colds there are so many known remedies 
that it is scarcely necessary to give any here. Those men- 
tioned in this department are very simple. At night, just 
before retiring, place the feet in hot water, to which add a 
little mustard or red pepper. Bathe them frequently with the 
hand until the water cools; then take them out, put on a pair 
of stockings, and retire as soon as possible. Just before re- 
tiring wet about one-third of a towel in cold water, place it 
upon the chest or throat, as the case requires, and fold the 
diy part across, back and forth. The patient will sleep well, 
and feel much better in the morning. Keep the bowels clear, 
and avoid draughts. It is often beneficial to take some good 
tonic. 

Electro-galvanic belts will often cure nervous debility, 
chest troubles, rheumatism, kidney affection, etc. 

For diarrhcea and dysentery, and a preventive of cholera 
morbus, a preparation called Sun mixture is often used, and 
rarely fails. 

To purify the blood and invigorate the system, especially 
in the spring of the year, there are many excellent remedies 
already prepared. One that has been in use some time is 
made as follows : One ounce tincture of aloes, one ounce ex- 
tract of hops, half an ounce essence of aniseed ; shake well. 



the sice-boom. 331 

Pains, Etc. 

Apply cold water to the parts ; insensibility to pain en« 
saes, and restored circulation. For partial paral} sis, very 
hot water is often very effective. 

BUANS. 

HomoBopathic ^^ vitica nrens cerate " is very certain for 
bums or scalds where the skin is unbroken ; blue ointment 
relieves instantly and cures certainly. 

Ointment for Burns. 

Fifteen ounces of white glue simmered in a quart of wa- 
ter until dissolved ; add two ounces of fluid glycerine and 
six drachms of carbolic acid ; stir gently until well mixed. 
When cool, it will be an elastic mass ; when you wish to 
use it, put some in a vessel immersed in hot water until 
melted. 

Dalley's Pain Extractor is excellent for bums, etc. 

Quinsy. 

Simmer hops and vinegar until quite strong ; strain and 
Bweeten ; take frequently ; good also as a gargle. A poultice 
of hops, vinegar, and Indian-meal, simmered imtil quite soft 
and applied to the outside, is very effective. Gargles of 
potash, salt, or tannin are good, prompt applications, and 
will generally ward off an attack. Hepar. sulphur is good, 
taken in small doses. 

Gargle for Sore Throat. 

Simmer one ounce of Peruvian bark in one quart of 
water; add two wineglasses of honey, some burnt alum,, 
and borax, when reduced to half the quantity, keep for use. 
Shake it before using. 



332 HAND-BOOK FOB THE XTTOHEN. 



SoBB Thboat and EnIiABGSD GXiANSa 

Ubo as a gargle a strong solution of alnm, salt, or potash, 
three or four times a day. ' Potash or ammonia lozenges, salt- 
petre balls, or a small piece of gam arabio, held in the mouth 
for a short time, will often give relief. 



OOUOHB AND COTiDB, 

Boast a good-sized lemon without burning; squeeze out 
the juioe, and add three ounces of fine white sugar; let it 
simmer a while. Take a teaspoonful every hour. 

Or, a preparation of tar, honey, and boneset, sold at most 
drug-stores, in most cases is found excellent. 



Whoofino-gougb. 

Keep the bowels open; use Hepar sulphur lozenges, or 
some good cough mixture. 



Oatabbhaii OoiiD. 

Mix well ten drops of carbolic acid with seven drops of 
iodine, five drops of chloroform ; put it into a vessel having a 
spout ; place it over a lamp, and when the steam rises, put 
the spout to the nostrils ; inhale. Oontinue this operation 
until the patient sneezes. Keep the bowels dear. 



BAisma Blood. 
Take half a pound of dock -root, boil in a quart of 



THE BICK-BOOM. 33S 

milk ; drink three times each day. Take a pill of pine pitch 
daily. 

Bleeding at the Lungs. 

Eat raw table salt, pour ice- water on the back of the 
neck. 

To Cube Indigestion. 

Simmer half a pound of prunes with one ounce of senna- 
leaves, in one pint of water, until the prunes are tender. 
Take a spoonful every morning. Sure cure 1 1 

For sore eyes or inflamed lachr3rmal glands, apply red 
precipitate ointment with hair-brush. 

Cholera Morbus. 

Take some cholera mixture to relieve the pain, and some 
simple purgative ; put your feet in hot water with mustard, 
dip flannel in hot water, and apply it to the stomach, or a 
mustard-plaster. 

Piles. '^ 

Make an ointment of lard, sulphur, and cream of tartar, 
simmered together. 

To Check Diarrhcea. 

Tie tightly in a bag a cupful of wheat-flour, and boil it in 
milk four hours. It will be a solid ball, which will keep. 
When used, grate some in boiling milk and let it thicken ; 
add salt to taste. 

Cramps in Stomach. 

Use essence of peppermint, or extract of ginger, in water 
or on sugar. 

Toothache. 

Saturate a small piece of cotton batting in caustic soda ; 
insert it in the hollow tooth. A pill of belladonna, taken 



334 HAND-BOOK FOS THS KITCB£N. 

at intervals, will sometimes relieve. Or apply a poultice 
of hops simmered in vinegar, and sufficient corn-meal tc 
thicken it Use while hot. 

Neubaloia. 

Mix valerian, and ammonia, equal parts. Dose, tea 
spoonful in half a glassful of water, taken as soon as possi 
ble after the first premonitory symptom. Will generally re 
lieve ; if not, take a dose every hour and keep very quiet. 

Headache. 

Take six pellets of aconite every two hours. It is ofteiy 
caused by disorder of the stomach. Take a cathartic, bathe 
the feet in warm water. 

Earache. 
Put into the ear the l^eart of a roasted onion while hot. 

Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises. 

Take three clean bottles ; put half a pint of best brandy in 
each; put into one an ounce of gum camphor, pounded; 
into another, an ounce of old castile soap, grated ; in the 
other, half an ounce of oil organum. Shake them occasion- 
ally for several days until dissolved ; put all into one bottle ; 
shake well. The longer this is kept, the more effective it 
will be. 

Apply with the hand. In chronic rheumatism, the pa- 
tient should use gentle cathartics frequently, as tincture 
aloes, or aloetic pills. Compound cathartic pills taken in 
doses of one, two or three. 

Lockjaw. 

When apprehended from a wound, bind a rind of pork 
on the wound, or bathe with pearl-ash and water. 



J 



THE SICK-BOOM. 335 

To Relieve Pain of Cancers. 

Mix one grain of powdered silica, eighth of a grain of 
morphia ; use two or three times each day until the pain 
in tirst mitigated, and finally disappears. 

Bleeding at the Nose. 

Soak the feet in warm water. Or pour cold water upon 
the back of the neck. 

Corns. 

Make a poultice of roasted onions and sofb-soap ; apply 
?iot, before going to bed. Or put a cloth wet with spirits 
of turpentine on the com, for a short time ; then replace it 
with a tallow poultice. 

Erysipelas. 

Half an ounce of cream of tartar to one quart of cold 
water. Take half a wineglassful every two hours, day after 
day. 

Keep the bowels open with Epsom salts. 

Spread blue ointment over the inflamed part 

Drowning. 

Incline the head to let the water run off. Place the body 
in a warm bed, cover with hot blankets ; put hot bricks or 
bottles of hot water to the feet and hands ; two or three 
persons rubbing the body with their hands. Let another 
try to fill the lungs with air, by closing the nostrils, putting 
the mouth over that of the subject, and blowing forcibly 
until the chest is full of air. Press the bowels upward] 
repeat the operation several times, until signs of life art 
shown* 



886 HAITD-BOOK FOB THB KFTCHSN. 

POULTICXS. 

Bread-orumbs boiled with milk. For sores, a grated oai^ 

rot boiled quite soft. Brown sugar and soap make a good 

poultice for a boil. Flaxseed poultice is useful for aU 

kinds of inflammations. Onions roasted and pounded make 

a good poultice for corns or sore feet. For the feet, first soak 

them in hot water, with a small piece of soda, then rub them 

with tallow, or put on them a poultice of onion before going 

to bed. 

Seidlitz Powders. 

Put in a paper one drachm of Bochelle salts, in another 
paper a mixture of twenty grains of tartaric add and twenty- 
five grains carbonate soda. Dissolve the contents of each 
paper in separate tumblers, not quite half full of water; 
pour together and drink. 

Hemedies fob Poisons. 

For Corrosive Sublimate : The white of an egg every two 
or three minutes, or lice-water or even warm water. For 
Oil of Vitriol, or Frussic Acid, or other acids : Mix an 
ounce of magnesia in a quart of water ; give a wineglassful 
every two minutes. 

SIMPLE BROTHS FOR THE SIOK. 

Chickesc Bboth. 
Use a year-old fresh-killed fowl. Boil in about three 
quarts of water with a little salt. When tender, strain off 
the broth, season to taste, take off the fat, serve hot, with 
rice or barley. Serve the chicken with rich white sauca 

Lamb Bboth. 
Boil a knuckle of young lamb in two quarts of water 
' with a little salt. When quite tender, strain off the brotL 
Serve hot. 



J 






THE SICK-BOOM. 337 

Veal Broth. 

Boil a knuckle of young veal in two quarts of water with 
salt. When quite tender, strain off the broth. Serve hot. 

Beef Broth. 

Boil about two pounds of the upper part of a leg of beef 
in two quarts of water with salt. When tender, strain, 
take off the fat. Serve hot. 

Beef Tea. 

Take one pound of fresh juicy round of beef minced fine. 
Cover with boiling water in an earthen dish. Cover and 
simmer until all the juice is exhausted. Strain, salt to 
taste ; serve hot. 

Food for Invalids. 

Caudle. — Put into a quart of water two spoonfuls of 
oatmeal, one or two blades of mace, a piece of lemon-peel. 
Boil twenty minutes, stirring frequently ; strain and sweeten ; 
add a little wine, nutmeg, and lemon-juice. 

jBar^-tvcUer, — Soak an ounce of barley in several waters ; 
pat it '^ith some lemon -peel into a quart of water ; boil for 
half an hour ; then strain. Flavor with the rind of lemon 
and sugar. 

Chicken Tea.-— Cut the chicken in small pieces, skim it 
and remove the fat. Boil it in a quart of water twenty 
minutes ; pour off the tea before it is cold. (For Chicken 
Broth see Broths.) 

Oaimeal €hud, — Wet with cold water two tablespoonfula 
of oatmeal ; put it into two quarts of boiling water ; boiJ 
15 



838 HAND-BOOK FOS THE KITOHEN. 

gently Half an hour ; skim it ; add a little salt, sugar and 
nutmeg. Add milk to taste. 

Ground Rice Grud. — Wet with cold water a tablespoon- 
ful of ground rice ; stir it into a pint of boiling water ; add 
a little salt, boil up. Add sugar, nutmeg, and milk. 

Indian-meal Gruel. — Boil to a stiff jelly two tablespoon- 
fuls of meal in water ; add sufficient milk to thin it, season 
with salt to taste ; sugar, spice, and a little wine may be 
added. 

Tonic for Convalescents. 

Use Cassebeer's wine of extract of beef and iron with 
sherry wine. Cor. Twenty-first Street and Sixth Avenue. 

Panada. 

Put over the fire three gills of water ; add a glassful of 
white wine, a little sugar, and nutmeg and grated lemon. 
As soon as it boils add some grated bread. Boil quickly 
until it thickens. 

Milk Porkidge. 

A heaping teaspoonful of flour and one of meal. Moistec 
it with milk or water. Stir it into half a pint of boiling 
water. Add a little salt. Let it boil two or three minutes. 
Add half a pint of milk and boil again. 

Jelly for Invalids. 

• 

An ounce each of rice, pearl-barley, sago, and three pints 
of water ; let it simmer until reduced to one pint, the& 
strain it ; when cold, dissolve it in milk or wine. 

Wine Whey. 

Mix two glassfuls of wine with a pint of boiling milk ; 
let it stand a few minutes and strain. Sweeten to taste. 



THE 8ICK-SOOM. 339 

Tapioca. 

Soak overnight in two gills of cold water, a gill of tapioda ; 
in the morning add a little salt and milk or water. Boil 
until soft. Add sugar and grated nutmeg. Stir whila 
boiling. 

Tamarind Tea. 

Pour boiling water on some tamarinds ; stir them ; let it 
cool and strain. 

WiNTERGREEN TeA. 

Procure some fresh green leaves ; steep them in boiling 
water some time. Add a little milk and sugar. Make any 
herb tea the same way to use to soothe fever patients — 
pennyroyal teas, sassafras, orange^flower, etc. 

"Cocoa Theobroma.'* 

Cracked cocoa is slightly stimulative, refreshing, and 
nourishing. Perfectly safe for convalescents and nursing 
mothers as it is pure cocoa without oil or other mixture. 
Ask for Baker's cracked cocoa in any large family grocery. 
Put one cupful in four quarts of water, boil gently four 
hours. Keep in a cool place for use. 

Cocoa Paste — " Baker's." 

Two spoonfuls in a teacup ; fill with boiling water or 
milk ; stir until dissolved. It is improved by boiling gently 
a few minutes. 

Cocoa in Powder Packages. 

Two tablespoonfuls in one quart of boiling water. Boil 
gently about fifteen minutes, add milk or cream, and sugar 
to taste. 



340 hand-book for thb kitchen. 

Bakbr's Chocolatb. 
Grate two squares of ohooolate into one pint of boiling 
water; add sugar to taste. Boil gently about ten minutes, 
stirring constantly; add milk or whipped cream. A little 
well-beaten white of egg on the top of each cup improves 
the appearance, which is of importance with convalescents 
of variable appetite. 



SOME ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR 

THIS EDITION. 



Parker House Rolls. 

Ingredients. — ^Two quarts of flour, one pint of new milk; 
a tablespoonful of lard, a tablespoonful of sugar, a cupful of 
yeast or one yeast cake, and a little salt. Mix well, and 
rise over night (or for about six hours in the daytime), then 
knead. In about three hours roll and cut the biscuits. 
Place a bit of butter or lard in each, and lap or roll them. 
Let them rise until light, about one or two hours, then bake 
in a quick oven. 

Corn Chowder. 

Pare and dice, or slice, two large or three small potatoes, 
one large or two small onions. Place in a kettle with water 
enough to cover. Add butter one-half the size of an egg. 
Pepper and salt to taste. Cook until the potatoes and corn 
are done, about twenty minutes; then add one quart or three 
pints of milk, one can of com. Let it come to a boil, and 
serve with crackers. If fresh com is used, four ears would 
be required for this quantity, which should be previously 
boiled. 

Stuffed Egkjs. 

Boil hard and cut in halves. Take out the yolks, mix with 
pepper, salt, butter, and a dash of mustard. Put this back 
in the egg, tie together with ribbon or white paper, and serve. 



342 hand-book for the kitchen. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take out with a teaspoon or apple corer a portion of the 
inner part from the blossom end. Make a filling of bread- 
crumbs, pepper, salt, and a dash of Cayenne and butter. Sea- 
son with sage and bayleaf groimd fine. Put this in the to- 
matoes, and bake for one-half an hour in a quick oven. 

Coffee Ice-cream. 

One quart of cream, five ounces of coffee, ground, twelve 
oimces of sugar, two well-beaten eggs. After the custard is 
mixed, and while hot, stir in the coffee. Stir well imtil of a 
good brown. Cover closely. Let it stand for an hour or 
two; then strain and freeze. 

Turn Fruto Cream. 

One pint of milk, quart of cream, yolks of five eggs beaten, 
three cupfuls of sugar, one lemon, juice and grated peel, glass 
of pale sherry, one-half pound of crystaUized fruit chopped. 
Heat the milk to boiling point, pour by degrees over the eggs 
and sugar, which have been beaten. Beat all together. 
Return to the fire, boil for ten minutes, or until set in a good 
custard. When cold, beat in the cream, and half freeze be- 
fore you stir in the crystallized fruit — ^peaches, apricots, 
cherries, limes, etc., all chopped fine. Beat in with these the 
lemon and wine. Cover again and freeze. 



RECIPES FOR THE CHAFING DISH. 



Turkey or Chicken with Mushrooms. 

One pint of cold cooked chicken or turkey, one can of 
mushrooms, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, one cupful of milk, one cupful of chicken broth, 
yolks of two eggs, teaspoonful of salt, saltspoonful of white 
pepper. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the 
flour. When smooth add gradually the milk and chicken 
broth, then add the chicken or turkey, which has been previ- 
ously sliced. Cook for three minutes. Add the mushrooms, 
salt and pepper. Cook two minutes longer. Add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs very slowly, stirring all the time. Serve as 
soon as the sauce is creamy. 

Curry op Chicken. 

Ingredients. — Cold roast or boiled chicken, one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped onion, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of curry powder, 
a teaspoonful of salt, saltspoonful of pepper, one pint of milk. 
Put the onion and butter in the chafing dish and cook until 
the onion is of a light brown. Add the flour, curry powder, 
salt and pepper. Stir until smooth. Add the milk grad- 
ually, stirring constantly. Then add the chicken, which 
should be cut in squares or slices. Cook for about five min- 
utes or until heated through. 

To Prepare Sweetbreads. 

Place them in cold water. Remove the pipes and mem- 
branes; then cook them in boiling salted water, adding a tea- 



344 HAND-BOOK FOR THE KITCHEN. 

spoonful of lemon juice, for twenty minutes; then put them 
in cold water to harden. They should be kept on ice until 
wanted for the chafing dish. 

Sweetbreads Saut£. 

Sweetbreads, bread-crumbs, egg, salt, pepper, and butter. 

Prepare the sweetbreads as directed. Sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper, roll them in fine crumbs, then in beaten egg^ 
and again in crumbs, aiid saut^ in the chafing dish in a little 
butter. Serve with French peas. 

Creamed Salmon. 

Ingredients. — Half a poimd of canned or fresh cooked 
salmon, tablespoonful of butter, tablespoonful of flour, one 
cupful of milk, half a teaspoonf ul of salt, a speck of Cayenne, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Break the fish into flakes 
with a fork, removing all bones, skin, and liquid. Melt the 
butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour. When smooth 
add the milk gradually, stirring constantly. Add the season- 
ing and salmon. When thoroughly heated serve. 

Creamed Codfish. 

One-half poimd of salt codfish, shredded fine or put through 
a meat chopper. Cover with cold water and let it stand for 
an hour; then draw off this water. Cover again with water. 
Let it boil for fifteen minutes. Drain off that water and add 
a pint of milk. Bring to a boil. Add a tablespoonful of 
flour, same of butter, two hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. 
Put the fish in a dish and pour the mixture over it and it is 
ready to serve. It is excellent with baked potatoes. 

Creamed Oysters. 

Prepare the cream as follows : A quart of milk with a table- 
spoonful of flour, one-half tablespoonful of butter. Have 



RECIPES FOR THE CHAFING DISH. 345 

the cream boiling. A pint of oysters brought to the same 
temperature in a separate dish. Do not add the oysters to 
the cream until ready to serve. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

Sardines Saut6. 

Ingredients. — Boneless sardines, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, Cayenne, lemon juice, toast. 

Take good-sized, boneless sardines, place them on tissue 
paper, to free them from oil, and scrape off the skin, being 
careful not to break them. Melt the butter in the chafing 
dish, put in the fish, and cook about four minutes, turning 
them once. When cooked squeeze over them a few drops of 
lemon juice. Sprinkle very lightly with Cayenne and serve 
on toast. 

Shredded Sardines. 

Ingredients, — One box of sardines, cupful of bread-crumbs, 
cupful of milk, one hard-boiled egg. Shred the sardines 
carefully. Heat the milk, adding a lump of butter; then add 
the bread-crumbs, next the sardines and the egg chopped, 
and it is ready for the chafing dish. 

For Welsh Rarebit see pages 119-120. 

Eggs a la Newburq. 

Ingredients, — Six hard-boiled eggs, tablespoonful of but- 
ter, tablespoonful of flour, cupful of milk, half teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of Cayenne, two tablespoonf uls of sherry, yolks of 
two eggs. Remove the shells from the eggs, cut the eggs into 
halves. Arrange them on a warm dish, white side up. Put 
the butter in the chafing dish. When melted, stir in the 
flour, mix well, add the milk gradually, stirring constantly. 
When smooth add the salt, Cayenne, and sherry. Add the 
beaten yolks of the eggs. Pour the sauce around the eggs and 
serve at once. 



J 



INDEX 



INDEX. 



TO PURCHASE ARTICLES 
FOR COOKERY. 

PAGB 



Apples and Pears 

Bacon 

Codfish 

Crabs 

Domestic Fowls. 

Duck 

•uggS 

Fish 

Flour 

G^ese 

Hare and Rabbit 

Lobster. 

Lamb 

Meats 

Mutton 

Oysters and all Shell-fish. . 

Pork 

Poultry 

Pigeons , 

Partridge 

Salmon. 

Tuxbot 

Turkey 

Veal, 

Venison 



GRAVIES, BROTHS, OUL- 
LISES AND RAGM)trS. 

Gh'avies, 

Beef Gravy for Soup, etc. . . 18 
" *' *' ** and Ra- 
gouts 19 

Fish Gravy '. 19 

Gravy for Roast Beef 18 

*' " *' Meat 18 

Mutton Gravy. 19 

Mushroom Gravy 20 

Veal *' 19 

Broths. 

Barley Broth 20 

Broth for Breakfast 21 

Broth (Beef) 21 

Chicken Broth 20 

Lamb *• 21 

Maigre " 2C 

Vegetable ** 2C 

(MUses. 

Beef Cullis for Soups and 

Ragoflts 29 

Cullis of Fish 2 



350 



INDBZ. 



PAOS 

Oiillis of Game. 23 

*« Boots 23 

Veal and Ham Cullis 22 

WhiteCuUiB 22 

Bagouts, 

Ragoiit'of Cncumben 24 

** Cauliflowen. .... 24 

•* FiBh 23 

•** Lamb. 23 

Onion 24 

Oysters 24 

Veal 23 






ti 



i< 



t( 



4» 



(» 



BISQUES. 

Bisque of Grabs 27 

«* Fish 27 

Game ;. 27 

Lobster 25 

Oysters 25 

Pigeons 26 

PuUet 25 

»* Quaa 27 

SOUPS. 

Almond Soup 44 

Bean " 41 

Bean and Com Soap 41 

Beef So np 29 

** •' with Tomatoes... 38 

" " (vegetable) 29 

Brown Sonp (Stock) 28 

Bisque " 31 

Curry " 33 

Oalves'TaH 33 

** Head 33 

Gock&Leekie. 32 

Ohidken 37 

Cabbage (Savoy) 39 



ComandBaan.. 41 

Clam 45 

Crab 45 

DeSant^Soup 30 

Gravy •' 32 

Gumbo " 38 

Giblet " 35 

Hessian ** 37 

Joliexme 31 

Macaroni 29 

Mock-Turtie 34 

«* *» 35 

Mussel 45 

Mulligatawney 35 

Ox-taa 32 

Ochra. 39 

Onion 43, 44 

Oyster 46 

Parisienne 30 

Portable 38 

Potato 42 

Pea (Green) 40, 41 

Pea(SpUt) 41,42 

Pigeon 33 

Bice 42 

Bich White Soup 32 

Babbie " 34 

Sago 40 

Spinach. '40 

Strawberry 46, 47 

Turtle 36 

Tomato 39 

Venison 37 

White(Stock) 38 

FISH. 

Bass (Striped) to Boil 40 

Blaok-Fiah Barbecued 4B 

** " Stewed 48 



IMDBZ. 



351 



PAOB 

Bass (Sea) Stewed 49 

*' " Barbecued, 49 

** Baked 50 

Cod '' 61 

" Stewed 61, 63 

Cod Sliced and Baked 61 

*' Boiled 61, 63 

Codfish (Dried) 63 

Corned Codfish 63 

Codfish Fried 63 

Ood's Head and Shoulders. . 60 

Eels Fried 57 

Eels Broiled 58 

Eels with Sauce 58 

Fresh Fish Boiled 48 

Fish Macerated 49 

Flounders or any Fresh Fish. 55 

Fried 55 

" with Brown Gravy 

Sauce 56 

" with Cucumber 

Ragofit 56 

Fish Stuffed with OyBters. . . 56 

•* Stewed '* ** ... 57 

HaUbut Fried 51 

" ^tewed. 51 

Halibut BoUed 51 

Halibut's Head 51 

Herring Boiled 59 

'' Broiled 59 

** Fried 59 

Mackerel Boiled 58 

*' Fried 58 

" *' with Sauce... 58 

*' Broiled 59 

Paugiea 55 

Pickerel 66 

Perch Fried 57 

** with Mushrooms 57 

15* 



PAGH 

Shad Baked 50 

*' Broiled ... 50 

" Fried 50 

Salmon with White Sauce . . 53 

'* Boiled 53 

** Broiled 53 

Smoked Salmon Broiled. ... 53 
*' " Roasted.... 53 
'' ** with cham- 
pagne .... 53 

*' " Fried 53 

'' " Pickled.... 54 

(Corned) Salmon Boiled .... 54 

** ** Broiled.... 54 

Smelts Fried 55 

** Stewed 55 

Sturgeon Fried 69 

*' Broiled 60 

" Boiled 60 

Trout Fried 54 

" Stewed 55 

SheU'Fish. 

aams BoUed 73 

* ' Roasted or Baked .... 73 

** Stewed 73 

** Fried 73 

aam Fritters 73 

Clams (Soft-shell) 73 

Crabs Boiled 66 

** Stewed 66 

** Buttered 66 

'• Chowder (Soft-shell). . 66 

** Deviled 67 

*' (Soft-shell) 67 

** Dressed 67, 68 

** Baked 68 

Lobster Boiled. 65 

" Curried 65 



352 



INDEX. 



VAOB 

Lobater Oroqaettes 65 

'* Salad (Simple) 66 

" Devil©4 67 

Mnaeels 73,74 

Qysfcen, Baked or Scalloped. 68 

Broiled. 69 

Stewed 69, 70 

with Champagne. . . 70 

Fried 70, 71 

Fritters 71 

Roasted 71 

Patties 71 

Pie 71 

Scallops Stewed 78 

•* Fried 73 



MBATS. 

BoiUng Meats (Observations) 
Broiling " " 
Beefsteak Broiled 

" Fried 

** with Onions 

'^ k ntalienne 

** with Tomatoes . . .. 

** Stewed 

Boef Stewed 

Brisket of Beef Stewed 

Beef a la Mode 

Bonilli 

^la Braise 

Spiced 

h la Yinaigre 

Tenderloin 

(Fillet) Boasted 

Boasted (Rules) 



(i 



(Gold) Dressed. 

Kidney. 

Heart. 



75 

75 
75 
75 
76 
76 
76 
77 
77 
77 
78 
79 
79 
79 
79 
80 
80 
80 
80 
81 
81 
82 



BeefTongae 83 

Coloring 80 

Kidney 97 

Liyer with Onions 96 

** Fried in Batter 97 

*' Stewed 97 

Lamb. 

Brisket of Lamb Stewed 90 

Ohops. 90 

Fore-quarter Roasted 89 

Leg B oiled 90 

Loin Roasted with Toma- 
toes 89 

Lamb Roasted. 89 

MuU<m. 

Breast Stewed 86 

Ohops Fried 84 

" Broiled 84 

Cutlets. 84 

Dressed over 87 

Kidneys 86 

Loin Stewed. 84 

Leg Boiled 85 

" a hi Braise 85 

" Roasted 86, 87 

^' Boned and Stuffed 86 

" RoUed 87 

Mutton Roasted 86 

Neck of Mutton Roasted 85 

** *• ** Stewed.... 85 

Shoulder Roasted 87 

Saddle Roasted 87 

Veal. 

Breast of Veal, Stewed 93 

" BoUed 93 

** ' or Shoulder. Roasted. 94 



DTDBZ. 



353 



PAOB 

Cutlets Fried 91 

•* Broiled. 91 

'' Curried 91 

*' Farced 92 

Calf's Head, Baked 95 

*' *' and Oysters 95 

" Ears 96 

" Heart 96 

" Brains. 96 

" Liver. 96 

Fillet of Veal, Boiled 93 

*' " Boasted. 94 

Knuckle ** Boiled 92 

** ** Jellied 92 

Loin, Boiled 93 

Leg BoUed 92 

Sweetbreads 94, 95 

Veal Roasted 94 

«' Curried 93 

Pork. 

Outlets 101 

Leg of Pork, Boiled 101 

** ** Boasted 101 

Loin '* *' 101 

Steaks (Pork), Fried 101 

Pork Steaks, Broiled 102 

Spare-Bibs, Stewed 1j02 

" Broiled 102 

" Roasted. 102 

Pig Roasted 99 

'* with Oysters.... 99 

" Boiled 99 

** Dressed 100 

Pigs' HanJet 102 

*' Feet 102 

" Head 100 

Soused 100 



PAOS 

Ham (md Bacon, 

Gammon of Bacon, Roasted. 105 

Bacon with Greens 105 

'* or Ham, Dressed. .... 105 
Ham or Bacon with Eggs. . . . 105 

" " BoUed 104 

" Baked 104 

*' BoUed with Wine 104 

** Stewed in Brandy 105 

MADE DISHES. 

A Good Made Dish 114 

Beefsteak Pie 110 

Blood Pudding 120 

Crust for Meat Pies 107 

Clam Chowder 117 

ChickenPie 113 

*' Pot-Pie 113 

Croquettes 121 

** Fritters 121 

Crab Pie 114 

Chowder 116 

Eel Pie 116 

Forced Meat 107, 113 

Goose Pie 115 

Game Pie 115, 120 

Gumbo 117 

Head-Cheese 118 

Hotch-potch 120 

Hash Croquettes 110 

Hashed Beef 110 

Irish Stew 1V2 

Lamb Pie Ill 

Lobster Pie 116 

Made Dish for Breakfast or 

Lunch 118 

Mock Lobster 110 

Mutton Harricoed Ill 

*' Hash Ill 



Ojater Ohowder. 

Pork Pie 

Potato Pie 

Pepper-pot 

Rabbit Pie. 

Rarebit 

" <IriBh) 

Saunas and Sanaage-n 

Scotch Collope 

Shepheid'e Pia 

SpimiBli Fatties 

Salmon Fie 

Torkey Patties. 

Veal '• 

Veal, Hashed 

Croquettes. 

PritterB 



Pie.. 



POTTLTET. 

Obserratioiis on Cookiag'. .. . 
Stofflng for Ponltij, Game, 



Chicken Boasted 1 

' ' with Champagne . . 1 

" Broiled 1 

Boiled 1 

" with Aspaiaffns. . . . 1 

" att Bouillon Blano., 1 

" SnrpriBC 1 

" Carried 1 

" with Tomatoes. 1 

" Fricassee 1 

" " with Sweet- 



Ohieken Steamed, with Sau- 
sage StnfBi^. 



Chiokeru with Ham 130 

Cold Ohioken, Fried 129 

Chicken Cutlets. 130 

" Pia and Pot-Pie 113 

'• Croquettes 121 

" Fritters 131 

Ducks, Boasted 134 

■' Boiled with Greeii 

Peas 134 

Dncka, Stewed. 134 

" witb Orange-jnice. . . 135 

" aUBraisB 135 

Wild DuokB, Boiled 134 

" " Boasted 135 

Duck Pie 114 

Gibleto, Stewed 131 

Goose, Bossted. 133 

•■ Stewed 133 

" Pie 105 

Pullets, Farced with Cream. 130 

" with Oysters 130 

" " Ham 131 

" " Onions 131 

Tnikey, Boned. 131 

To prepare Boned Tnikey. . . 18$ 

Turkey, BoUed 132 

" Roasted 133 

Cold Turkey, Deviled. 133 

Turke;r IiCgs, Broiled 133 

" Patties lit 

GAME. 

Cold Game Dressed 138 

Game Pie 115, ISO 

Guinea Fowl 139 

Pigeons Fr[caaseed 189 

" Roasted 136 

" Broiled 137 

" with Jelly 138 



INDEX. 



355 



9AQU 

* Pigeons stewed 138 

Partridge Roasted 136 

*' Broiled 138 

" Stewed 138 

QuaU 139 

Babbits Boasted 140 

" Boiled 140 

Snipe Boasted 139 

" BroUed. 139 

Venison (Haunch) roasted. . . 140 
**' (Leg) ^' ... 140 

'' Shoulder *' ... 141 

** Steaks 141 

*' Stewed 141 

SAUCES FOB MEATS, POUL- 
TBY, FISH. 

Observations 143 

A Oood Sauce 143 

Anchovy Sauce 143 

Browning for Sauce 143 

Bechamel Sauce 147 

Brown Sauce for Made 

Dishes 147 

Bread Sauce for Lamb 149 

Curry Sauce for Veal Outlets. 144 

Celery " 144 

Cucumber Sauce for Wild 

Duck 144 

Cold Sauce for Pigeons 144 

Cucumber Catsup 145 

Cranberry Sauce 145 

ChiU ** 146 

Dutch ** 140 

Drawn Butter 146 

Egg Sauce 144 

GarHc *' 144 

Qreen Sauce for Lamb 145 

♦' " " Eels 115 



PAQV 

Horseradish Sauce 145 

Hollandaise 148 

Juice of Onions 148 

" "Mushrooms 148 

Lobster Sauce 149 

Lemon ** 149 

Liver ** 149 

Mayonnaise Sauce 146 

** *' without 

Vinegar 146 

Mint Sauce '. 149 

Mustard Sauce 150 

Mushroom Catsup 150 

*' Sauce 150 

Oyster Sauce 150, 151 

" Catsup 151 

Onion Sauce 151 

Rich White Sauce 151 

Sauces for Poultry & Game. 152 

'' " Beef ^ In Braise. . 152 

*« " Fresh Herring.... 154 

Tomato Catsup 153 

'' Sauce 148 

Tartare " 147 

Wine Sauce for Mutton 148 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus 158 

Artichokes 163, 164 

Beets \ 158 

Beans 160, 167 

Cabbage 156 

Cauliflower , 159 

Com ... 160 

*• Patties 101 

"- and Beans 161 

Cucumbers 168 

Carrots 159 

Egg Plant 162 



356 



INDEX. 



PASV 

Greens. 157 

Hominy. 164 

Lettuce 157 

Mushrooms 162, 163 

Macaroni 165 

Onions 162 

Oyster Plant 165 

Parsnips 158 

** 160 

Peas 158 

** 166 

Potato Croquettes. 154 

"• inHaste. 155 

** Snow 156 

'* Stewed 154 

Potatoes ^ la GrSme 155 

" Glazed 155 

^^ Baked under Meat . . 155 

'* Mashed 155 

'*• with Onions 155 

** a la Maitre d'Hotel. . 157 

" Scalloped 157 

"* Souffle 156 

" Eissoles 156 

Bice 164 

Spinach 159 

Sweet Potatoes Baked 165 

" '' Boiled 165 

** ** BroUed 166 

** *' Croquettes. 166 

Turnips Boiled 157 

** Mashed with Pota- 
toes 157 

Tomatoes 161 

SALADB. 

ChiokenSalad 169 

Cold Slaw, Hot Slaw 170 

Dressing for Salads.168, 171, 173 



PAOI 

Green Mayonnaise Salad. . . . 171 

Lobster Salad 163 

Potato '* 171 

Sauce for Salads 168 

Salads 168, 171 

Tomato Salad 170 

PICKLES. 

To Make Brine 175 

To Pickle Butternuts. 174 

" Beans 177 

" Cucumbers 177 

Chow-chow 178 

To Pickle Cherries 179 

** Citron 179 

** Cauliflowers 174 

Bast India Pickle 170 

Green Pickles 175 

*' Tomatoes 176 

To Pickle Hickory-nuts 174 

Lemon Pickle 176 

To Pickle Mushrooms 177 

'' Mangoes 177 

" Nasturtions 177 

" Onions 178 

'* Oysters 178 

*' Peaches 174, 178 

*• Peppers 176 

*« Plums or Pears... 180 

Pickle Lilly 174 

Sour-Kraut 176 

Vinegar (To make) 173 

ChiU Vinegar 173 

Tarragon Vinegar 173 

To prepare Vinegar 175 

Yellow Pickles 176 

EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 

Cold Boiled Eggs Dressed. . . 181 



INDEX. 



357 



PAOK 

r.gg3 Baked 182 

** Fried t81 

" Poached 181 

Ham Omelet 180 

Oyster " 181 

Souffle 180 

Sweet Omelet 180 

Omelet with Peas, Asparagus, 

Cauliflower. 183 

StirredEggs. 182 

BREAD, BISCUIT, BREAK- 
FAST CAKES, ETC. 

Arrowroot Cakes 

^*' Breakfast Cakes. . 

Buttermilk Rolls 

Breakfast Cakes 

Biscuits 

Buckwheat Cakes 

Boston Brown Bread 

Breakfast or Tea Cakes 

Com Bread 



t( 



(C 



(I 



it 



Cake 

Cakes 

Crumpets , 

Dyspepsia Bread 

Flat Jacks 

Graham Bread , 

Indian Griddlb Cakes. 

Johnny Cake 

Muffins 

Pumpkin Bread 

Potato Cakes and Biscuit 

PufiEs 

Rye Bread 

Rye ftnd Indian Brea/l ... 

Rice Bread 

Short Rollfl 



186 
190 
189 
190 
190 
192 
185 
187 
186 
189 
188 
191 
191 
185 
193 
186 
191 
189 
188 
186 
187 
187 
184 
185 
186 
189 



PAfta 

Scores 190 

Sweet Potato Buns 191 

Wheat Griddle Cakes 193 

" Bread 188,184 

**" and Indian Bread . . . 184 
Waffles 193 

PUDDINGS. 

Observations 194 

Arrowroot Pudding 203, 204 

Apple Custard 207 

** Dumplings 212 

" Charlotte 213 

*' Pudding 214 

" Island 215 

Almond Pudding 215 

BreadPuddings 202 

" " with Fruit... 203 

Bird's Nest Pudding 21*5 

Berry Pudding. 216 

Batter Pudding 200 

Cracker Pudding 196 

Com " 199 

Cottage ** 200 

Custard *' 206 

Cup Custard 207 

Cream Pudding 207 

Cocoanut Pudding 207 

Comstarch ' ' 208, 209 

Citron *' 217 

Christmas " 218, 219 

Poorman's Christmas Pud- 
ding 199 

Eve's Pudding 219 

Egg Pudding 196 

Flummery. 217 

FruitPudding 218 

Farina Pudding 200 

Floating Island 206 



358 



INDEX. 



TABM 

Frittera 21 9, 220 

Fig Pudding 216 

Hen'a Neat Pudding 217 

Indian Pudding 198, 199 

Japanese ^^ 204 

Jam '* 216 

Lemon ** 210 

*' Cream 210 

M6ringue 216 

Orange Pudding 211 

Potato ** 201 

Pumpkin ** 209 

Pastry 194, 195 

Pan Dowdy 216 

Quaking Pudding 201 

Quince " 217 

Rice " 204,205 

" with Peaches 203 

" Froth 206 

Rennet Custard , 206 

Roly-Poly Pudding 211 

Suet ** 197 

Simple " 199 

Sweet Potato Pudding 201 

Sago 202 

Snow-balls 208 

Tapioca Pudding 195, 196 

Transparent Pudding 196 

Tipsy Pudding. 204 

Union '^ 216 

Wheat " 200 

PIES, PASTRIES, &c. 

Apple Pies or Tarts 223 

'* Custard Pies. 223 

Almond Pies 223 

Custard *' '. 224 

Chocolate 224 

" Meringue 224 



Cream Pies. 225 

Cherry ** and Tarts 225 

Currant Tarts and Pies 225 

CocoanutPies 226 

Dried Fruit Pies 227 

Fruit , '' 226 

Lemon " 22G 

Meringue *' 228 

Marrow Tarts 228 

Mince Pies 229 

Orange ** 226 

Pastry and Crusts 2:21, 222 

Pineapple Pie 226 

Peach '* 227 

Plum " 227 

Pumpkin or Squash Pie. . . . 227 

Quince Tart 227 

Rhubarb He 227 

Strawberry Pie 228 

'' Shortcake 228 

Tomato Pie 228 

SWEET SAUCES. 

Observations. 230 

Apple Sauce 230 

Brandy Sauce 230 

Cranberry ** 230 

Chocolate Paste 232 

Fruit Sauces 233 

Hard Sauce 231 

Lemon '* 231, 232 

Sauce for Maigre Plum Pud- 
ding 230 

Sauce for Plum Pudding 231 

Sweet Sauce 231 

Wine '* 231 

Whipped Cream Sauce 232 

CAKES. 
Observations 234 



INDEX. 



359 



PAGJi 

Almoud Cake 246 

Boston *' 248 

Bath Buns 239 

Buns (Spanish) 241 

'* (Hot Cross) 241 

Cream Cakes 253 

Cracknels 238 

Chocolate Drops 240 

Crullers...! 245 

Cocoanut Cakes 242 

Cup Cake 249 

Composition Cakes 249 

Clove Cake 250 

Dutch ** 253 

Drop Cake 244, 245 

Doughnuts 246 

English Cake 247 

French " 248 

Ginger-snaps 235 

Ginger-nuts, with Sweet- 
meats 236 

Ginger Cookies 236 

Ginger Bread 236, 237 

Golden Cake 250 

Jelly '* 253 

Jumbles. 244 

Lemon Cake. 247 

Lemon Biscuit 238 

*' Rises 240 

Ladies' Fingers 241 

Lady Cake 249 

Macaroons 241 

Molasses Cake 237 

New Year's " 248 

Orange Biscuit 239 

Pound Cake 251 

** ♦' (Currant) 252 

Busks 252 



t( 



*c 



Cake (Spiced). . . 



. . • A^VV 



TAam 

Pint Cake 252 

Potato Cheese Cake 252 

Rusks. 237 

Rock Cake 247 

Ribbon Biscuit 237 

Sponge Cake 250, 251 

Sponge Biscuit. 251 

Savory ** 239 

Sweet Shortcakes. 239 

Sally Lunn 240 

Small Cake 244 

Silver *' 249 

Seed " 247 

Tea ** , 249 

Velvet " 242 

Whigs 238 

Waffles 243 

Wafers 243 

Washington Cake 253 

Fndt Cakes. 

Bread Fruit Cake 254 

Boston *' ** 254 

Currant " " 255 

Fruit Pound " 254 

Fruit Cake, Rich and Plain, 

255, 256 

Twelfth Cake 254 

Wedding '* 256 

Icings 256, 257 

JELLIES, JAMS, ETC. 

To Clarify Sugar. 258 

Observations 258 

Air-Tight Covering for Jara 259 

Apple Marmalade 259 

" Jelly. 259 

" Cream 260 

Almond Blanc-Mange 26G 



360 



INDEX. 



FAOa 

Barbeziy Jam 263 

Blackberry and other Fmit 

Jams 272 

Blackberries Preserved 272 

Blackberry Jelly 272 

Blano-Mangre 270,271 

Cherry Jelly. 261 

Cherries Preserved 260 

•* Brandied. 260 

Currant Jam 261 

" Jelly 261 

" " 262 

Citron Preserved 263 

Crab-Apple Jam 263 

Candied Fruit 265 

Grape Jam or Jelly 265 

Gooseberry Jelly 265 

'* and Raspberry 

JeUy 265 

Gooseberries Stewed 206 

Gooseberry Jam 266 

To Bottle Gooseberries 266 

Gelatine JeUy 266 

Green Gage Jam 266 

" Gages Brandied 267 

Fruit Jelly 276 

Jaumange 267 

Lemon Jelly. 269 

'* Cheesecakes 269 

" Sponge 269 

Marble Jelly 270 

Orange Marmalade 270 

'' Jelly 270 

Pears Preserved. 263 

'* Stewed , 273 

Pineapple Jelly 267 

** Marmalade 267 

" Brandied 208 

** Preserved 268 



PAoa 
Pineapple Preserved with- 
out Cooking 268 

Plums ... 208 

Peaches Preserved 273 

Peach Jelly 273 

Peaches Brandied. 273 

" Presei^ed 274 

j Quince Jelly 274 

'* Preserves 275 

" Marmalade 275 

Qainces Stewed 275 

Baspbeny Jam 262 

" Preserves 262 

Raspberry Jelly. 265 

Strawberry Preserves 263 

" Jam 264 

Strawberries Bottled 264 

" in Wine 275 

Strawberry Jelly 275 

TableJelly 275 

Tomato Preserves 276 

Figs. 276 

Jam 276 

To Can Fruit 259 

To Green Fruit for Pickling 

and Preserving 259 

CREAMS, ICE-CREAMS; AND 
WATER ICES. 

Almond Cream 279 

Gooseberry Cream 279 

Lemon Cream 279 

Mock Cream 280 

Raspberry Cream 279 

*' Juice for Creams, 

etc 279 

Whipped Cream 276 

Wine Cream 280 



(C 



(( 



INDEX. 



361 



PACK 

lee- Creams, 

Biscnit Glacis 282 

Bisque 285 

Chocolate Cream 280, 284 

Frozen Fruit Custard 280 

Frozen Peaches 281 

Fruit Cream 281 

Frozen Custard. ^ 286 

Ice Cream. 281 

'* " made from Milk. 285 

Lemon Ice Cream 282, 284 

Milk of Almonds 282 

Pineapple Ice Cream*. 284 

Strawberry Ice Cream . .281, 284 

Tutti Frutti 282 

To Make a Mould of Two 

Kinds. 282 

Vanilla Ice Cream 284 

Water Ices. 

Lemon Ice 283 

Orange Ice. 283, 285 

Pineapple Ice 283, 285 

Peach Water Ice 283 

Boman Punch 283, 285 

Raspberry Ice 285 

Sherry Ice 28S 

Strawberry Ice 283, 285 

BRANDY, WINE, ETC. 

Blackberry Brandy 287 

Brandy Punch 291 

Cherry Brandy 287 

" Wine 287 

Currant Wine 288 

Cordial 290 

Cherry Bounce 292 

Elder Wine 288 

Gooseberry Wine 289 



PAGI 

Ginger Wine 289 

" Beer 289 

Grape Wine 289 

Hot Rum , . ... 293 

Lemon Cordial , . . 290 

'* Syrup 290 

Milk Punch 291 

MintJulep 291 

Port Wine Sangaree 292 

RootBeer. .... . . 290 

Raspberry Vinegar 292 

Sarsaparilla Mead 290 

Schnapps Punch 291 

Sherbet 291 

To Restore Acid Beer 290 

COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE, 
ETC. 

Black Tea 294 

CofiEee (To Roast) 39;j 

Caf^auLait 293 

CofiEee (French) 294 

Chocolate » 294 

Cocoa 294 

" Kernels 295 

" ^Shells 295 

English Breakfast Tea 294 

THE STORE-ROOM. 

Asparagus (To Preserve) 297 

Beans " 297 

To Freshen Stale Bread 299 

Corn (To Preserve) 297 

Cider (To Clarify) 299 

Coffee and Tea (To Keep). . 301 

Calf s Feet (To Pot) 298 

Cheese (Potted) 302 

Dried Fruit (To Keep 
Worms from) 30C 



362 



INDEX. 



Drippings (To Clarify) 299 

Eggs (To Preserve) 297 

Frostbitten Fruits and Vege- 
tables 300 

Fish (To Keep Fresh) 299 

Pickle for Hams 303 

To Cure Hams 304 

** Smoke " 304 

Pickle for Hams 804 

Mutton Ham 805 

Lamb 298 

Mushrooms (To Keep) 299 

To Keep Butter Sweet 298 

" Pot Pork 801 

** **' Pigeomi 801 

" *' Veal 301 

'' ** Beef 301 

** " Herring 302 

" " Fresh Meat 302 

'* To Prepare Rennet 803 

Tincture of Lemon-Peel. . . . 303 

To Make Yeast 300 

"' Extract t^e Bitter Qual- 
ity from Yeast 300 

To Cure a Leg of Pork 805 

** Pickle Pork 305 

*' Make Bologna Sausages. 305 
Pausage Meat 306 

LAUNDRY. 

Blueing 307, 310 

Calicoes 308 

To Wash Lace 309 

Iron Mould 310 

To Wash and Dry Lace Cur- 
tains 311 

To Bleach Clothes 310 

** Wash "■ 308 



PA«S 

Preparation for Softening 

Water 808 

To Wash Woollen Goods.... 309 

Printed Muslins 308 

To Restore Color 809 

IVIildew 809 

Scorching 310 

Starch 307, 310 

To Make Glossy Shirt Bo- 311 

soms 311 

To Wash and L:on Window- 
Shades 311 

FOR HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Bottles (to Wash) 316 

Britannia (to Clean) 315 

Brass Kettles 815 

Carpets (to Clean) 312 

" (to Sweep) 312 

Cement 314 

Earthenware (to Temper). . . 316 
Fire in Chimney (to Extin- 
guish) 314 

Grease from Boards (to Re- 
move). 313 

Glass (to Clean) 315 

Iron 315 

Kettles 316 

Ivory (to Take Stains from). 314 

Metals (to Clean) 316 

Mahogany (to Take Stains 

from) 813 

Marble (to Clean) 313 

Polish for Furniture. 312 

Paint (to Clean) 313 

Roaches (to Destroy) 3 14 

Rust (to Remove Rust from 

Steel) 315 

Poison for Bugs 314 



INDEX. 



363 



PAGB 

Silver (to Oiean) 314 

To make Soap. 315 

Soft-soap 316 

To Caeau Wall Paper. 313 

DYEING. 

Black. 318 

Blue 318 

Green 318 

Orange 318 

Red 317 

Scarlet 317 

Lemon Color 318 

THE WARDROBE. 

Cloth, to Remove Paint 319 

" ** Restore the Sur- 
face 821 

To take Creases from Cloth. 321 
To Keep Moths from Furs. . 319 

Gloves (to Clean) 319 

Dresses (to Clean) 820 

Grease (to Remove) 321 

To Clean Silks 320 

'* keep Silks 320 

To Extract Marking and Ma- 
ohineOil 319 

THE TOILET. 

Aromatic Vinegar 324 

Camphorated Ointment 322 

Camphor Ice 324 

Eyes (Inflamed) 325 

Freckles 323 

Hardened Skin and Wrin- 
kles 822 

Honey and Almond Paste. . . 323 
Hair-brushes (to Clean) .... 32-1 



PAca 
Hair, to Promote the Growtih, 

323, 324 

Hair Restorer 325 

Hands, to Keep from Chap- 
ping 323 

Lavender Water 324 

To Wash Long Hair 333 

Pomade. 323 

Pimples 322 

Sunburn. 322 

Tooth Powder 323 

THE NURSERY. 

Observations on Food 326 

Arrowroot 326 

Barley-water 827 

Cracker Jelly 326 

Cornstarch 327 

ThickenedMUk 327 

Asthma 327 

Chicken-pox 328 

Fever 328 

Fits or Convulsions 328 

Croup 327 

Teething 327 

Measles 328 

ScarletFever 328 

Sore Throat 328 

SICK-ROOM. 

Observations 329 

Bums 331 

Bleeding at the Lungs 333 

ii u u jjf^Q 335 

Bruises 334 

Cholera 330,833 

Coughs, Colds 330 

»* 332 



364 



INDKX. 



PAoa 
Catazrh 883 

Cancel's 885 

Corns. 335 

Drowning 335 

Diarrhoea 833 

Enlarged Glands 332 

Earache 334 

Erysipelas. 335 

Headache 834 

Indigestion. 333 

Lockjaw 334 

Neuralgia. 334 

Ointment for Bums 331 

PUes. 833 

Poisons. 336 

Quinsy. 331 

Pains 331 

Raising Blood 332 

Rheumatism 334 

Poultices 835 

Seidlitz Powders 336 

Spinins 334 

Sore Throat (Gargle) 331 

332 



4. 



i4 



PAOS 

Stomach (Cramps) . 833 

Whooping-f ough 332 

BROTHS. 

Beef Broth 337 

** Tea 337 

Chicken Broth 336 

Lamb ** 336 

Veal '' 336 

FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 

Barley-water 337 

Caudle 337 

Chicken Tea 337 

Cocoa. 339 

Chocolate 340 

Gruel 338 

JeUy. 338 

Milk Porridge 338 

Oatmeal Gruel 837 

Panada 388 

Tonic for Convalescents. . . . 338 

Tapioca 339 

Tamarind Tea 339 

Wine Whey '^&^ 



