lAMEHoivOMM; 




• '■:,!- 



ELU*M. 



VV> V 



MC3CS10NE 



. . (Tjiiargig aEJS 



APPROVED , 

V. 



I't", 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Giftof 
Thomas Bass 








^'^j>^=-- — --" ~ '•- ' 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/cletails/cu31924085805145 




ICO 



The) 



IMERKMWOMNSI 
OOK-BOOK: 



PAGE 

Soups 9 

Fish, as 

Shell Pi5h 34 



41 

49 
54 
60 
66 



Beef 

Veal 

Pork 

Mutton and Lamb, . 

Poultry and Game, . 

Miscellaneous Dishes, . 80 

Sauces and Gravies for 
Fish and Meat, . . 90 

Salads 103 

Eggs 114 

Vegetables, . . . .122 

Bread and Cakes, . . 145 

Cake, IS7 

Layer Cakes, . . . .177 

Pastry, 182 

Desserts, 201 

See complete Alphabetical ladex, page 367 



PAGE 

Sauces for Puddings, . 222 
Pickles and Preserves, . 226 

Candies, 238 

Beverages, . . . ■. .242 



Food and Drink for the 
Sick, 250 

Artistic Cooking, . . . 258 

Entries 264 

Fruits and Ices, . . . 281 

The Dinner Table, . . 289 

Marketing, 296 

Carving, 300 

Menus, 303 

The Home, 321 

Poods for Each Month, 327 

Don'ts for the Kitchen, 332 

Household Hints and 
Recipes, 335 



Fireless Cooker, 



354 




JUST FOLLOW THE RECIPES IN THIS BOOK AND YOU 
WILL BE SURE OF THE RESULT." 



AMERICAN WOMAN'S 
COOK- BOOK 

BY 

ELLA M. BLACKSTONE 



Approved Household Recipes 

INCLUDING MANY EXCELLENT DISHES NEVER 
BEFORE PRESENTED IN A COOK BOOK 



Foods for each Month — Time Required to Cook and to Digest Different 

Articles of Food — Menus for all occasions — Table Etiquette, Kitchen 

Don'ts — Kitchen Equipment and Useful Hints and Recipes for 

the Home in general — Specially-drawn artistic headings for 

various subjects, as Soups, Fish, Poultry, Beef, Veal, 

Mutton, Fork, Salads, Vegetables, and all classes 

of Dishes, besides Beverages, Candies, Pickles 

and Preserves, Ice Creams and Ices — Ruled 

Pages for Recipes to be Preserved 



PRICE, $1.50 



A THOROUGH ALPHABETICAL INDEX 




CHICAGO 

Laird & Lee, Fubusheks 




Copyright, 1910, 
By William H. Lee. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

Alphabetical Index, . . . 354 

Artistic Cooking — Fancy 

Dishes 258 

Average Cooking Time, . . Vi 

Beef, 41 

Beverages, 343 

Bread and Cakes, . , . .145 

Cake 157 

Candies, 338 

Carving, 300 

Desserts — Creams and Cus- 

Urds 201 

Puddings 209 

Don'ts for the Kitchen, . . 383 

Eggs, 114 

Entrfi 364 

Fish 35 

Food and Drink for the Sick, 250 

Foods for each Month, . . 337 

Fruits and Ice 281 

Household Hints and Recipes, 335 

Layer Cakes, . . , , . 177 

Marketing, 296 

Menus for the Year, 

January — December, , 303 

Thanksgiving Dinner, . 318 

Christmas Dinner, . .319 



FAGS 

Easter Dinner, . . .320 

Wedding Dinner, . . .320 

Miscellaneous Dishes, ... 80 

Muttoq and Lamb, ... 60 

Pastry 182 

Drop Cakes, Cookies and 
Fried Cak6s, ... 183 

Short Cakes, .... 190 

Pies, 191 

Pickles and Preserves, . . 236 

Pork 54 

Poultry and Game, ... 66 

Salads, 103 

Sauces and Gravies for Meats 
and Fish, 90 

Sauces for Puddings, . . . 233 

Shellfish, 34 

Soups 9 

The Dinner Table, . . .289 

The Home, 321 

Economy 321 

Heat Economy, .... 338 

Kitchen Equipments, . , 334 

Time Required for Digestion, vii 

Veal 49 

Vegetables 123 

What a Cook Should Know, . viii 



See eompMe Alpbabetleal Index, page 367 

V 



Boiline- 

ABparagus 20 mln. 

Beans, navy 2 hourB 

Beets 3 5 mln. 

Brussels Sprouts ........ 1 min. 

Cabbage or CauUHower ... 2 mln. 

Carrots, young 5 mln. 

Green Corn 10 mln. 

Lima Beans 36 mln. 

Lentils 2 hours 

Macaroni, Spaghetti 20 mln. 

Onions and Parsnips ....3 6 mln. 

Peas 15 ™'n- 

Peas, dried 2 hours 

Potatoes 25 mln. 

Bice 15 mln. 

Spinach IB min. 

String Beans 25 min. 

Turnips . 30 mln. 

Beef, fresh lb., 35 mln. 

Beef, corned lb., 30 min. 

Beet, potted lb., 35 mln. 

Beef, smoked lb., 20 min. 

Chicken lb., IB min. 

Fowl lb., 25 min. 

Ham lb., 1 5 min. 

Mutton lb., 1 5 min. 

Pork, salt lb., 20 min. 

Turkey lb., 1 5 mln. 

Bass, Bluetlsh, Salmon and 

other oily flsh lb., 10 min. 

Codfish, Haddock, Halibut, 

Pike, 'WTilteflsh. . . .lb., 6 min. 

Crawfish 15 mln. 

Lobster .... 4 30min. 



Boasting. 

Beef, ribs lb., 9-12 min. 

Beef, round lb., 10-16 min. 

Chicken lb., 12-15 mln. 

Duck or Goose. .. .lb., 18-20 mtn. 

Fillet of Beef 30 min. 

Fish,, large 50-CO min. 

Fish, small 15-2 5 mln. 

Game birds, large 3 0-40 mln. 

Game birds, small 1 5-2 5, mln. , 

Ham ..lb., 20 min. 

Lamb lb., 12-15 min. 

Mutton, leg lb., 12-15 min. 

Mutton, saddle ... .lb., 10-12 mln. 

Pork and Veal lb., 20min. 

Turkey lb., 12-13 min. 

Venison lb., 10-12 mln. 

Broilingr. 
Beefsteak, 1 in. thick.. 10-12 min. 
Beefsteak, 1 %ln. thick 12-16 nUn. 
Bluefish, Shad o'r Trout 20-25 mln. 

Chicken, spring 15-20 min. 

Fish, small 8-12 mln. 

Game Birds 8-15 min. 

Lamb Chops 8-10 min. 

Mutton Chops 1 0- ^2 min. 

Pigeons, young 10-15 min. 

Bakinig. 

Biscuits 20 mln. 

Bread, white i hour 

Bread, rye, graham, etc. . . 2 hours 

Cake 1-1 1/„ hours 

Cakes, small 20-50 min. 

Custard ] hour 



The average time for cooking, given above, should be carefully observed 
snd varied according to circumstances, to get best results. 



Hrs. MIn. 



Apples, sweet 


1 


30 


Apples, sour 


2 


, . 


Barley, boiled 


2 


, , 


Beef, salt, boiled. .. 


2 


45 


Beef, roasted 


3 


, , 


Beefsteak, broiled. . 


3 


, , 


Beefsteak, fried 


3 


, , 


Beans, white, boiled 


3 


45 


Beets, boiled 


3 


45 


Bread, fresh 


3 


30 


Bread, com 


3 


15 


Butter 


3 


30 


Cabbage, with vine- 






gar 


2 


. . 


Cabbage, boiled 


4 


30 


Cake, sponge 


2 


30 


Calf's Liver, fried. . 


2 


30 


Carrots, boiled . . . . 


3 


15 


Cheese, old 


3 


30 


Chicken, boiled . . . . 


2 


, _ 


Corn, green, boiled. 


3 


45 


Custard, baked 


2 


50 


Duck, roasted 


4 


, , 


Eggs, fresh, raw.. . 


2 


, , 


Eggs, whipped 


1 


30 


Eggs, soft boiled . . . 


3 


. , 


Eggs, hard boiled. . 


3 


30 


Eggs, fried 


4 


, . 


Fish, boiled 


1 


30 


Fish, fried 


2 


40 


Fowls, boiled o i 






roasted 


4 





Fish, salted 4 

Goose, young, roast- 
ed 2 

Lamb 2 

Milk, fresh 2 

Milk, boiled 2 

Mutton, roasted ... 3 

Mutton, boiled 3 

Oysters, raw 2 

Oysters, stewed.... 3 

Parsnips, boiled 2 

Pork, pickled and 

boiled 3 15 

Pork, roasted or 

fried 5 

Potatoes, boiled.... 3 
Potatoes, baked or 

fried 2 

Rice, boiled 1 

Sago, boiled 1 

Soup, bean 3 

Soup, chicken, beef, 

etc 3 

Soup, barley 1 

Tapioca, boiled .... 2 

Tripe, boiled 1 

Trout, fried 1 

Turkey, roasted.... 2 
Turnips, boiled .... 3 

Veal 4 

Venison Steak, broil- 
ed 1 45 



30 
30 
15 

is 

55 
30 
30 



30 
30 
45 



15 
30 



30 
30 
30 
30 



The above figures are averages under normal condi- 
tions. The period of digestion depends, however, upon 
circumstances : proper cooking and seasoning of foods, 
the condition of the stomach at time of eating, mental ex- 
citement, physical exercise or lack of it, after the meal. 



vxi 



One ounce of butter equals 2 level tablespoonfuls. 

Ounce ounce of flour equals 4 level tablespoonfuls. 

One ounce of butter and one-balf ounce of flour 
used to thicken one cup of liquid in making sauce. 

When making cup custards allow four eggs to eacn 
quart of milk. 

Use four to six eggs to each quart of milk when 
making a custard to be turned from the mold. 

Rice will absorb three times its measure of water 
Or a larger quantity of stock or milk. 

Allow 2 level teaspoonfiils. of baking powder to 
each cup of flour when eggs are not used. 

One cup of sugar will sweeten one quart of mix- 
ture to be served chilled or frozen. 

One teaspoonful of extract will flavor one quart of 
custard or pudding which is to be served unfrozen. 

One tablespoonful of extract will, flavor one quart 
of mixture which is to be served frozen. 

One level teaspoonful of salt will season one quart 
of soup, sauce or vegetables. 

One tablespoonful of water or milk should be 
used with each egg when making omelet. 

The ordinary French dressing will marinate one 
pint of salad. (Composition: 3 tablespoonfuls oil, 1/4 
tablespoonfuls vinegar, ^ level teaspoonfulsalt, }4 level 
teaspoonful pepper, and X teaspoonful sugar). 

{Marinate. — Pickle and preserve in oil and vinegar.) 




Soup usually forms the first course at dinner, and serves 
to prevent an inordinate indulgence in food that is less 
easy of digestion. It quiets the excessive craving of the 
stomach but does not completely satisfy the hunger. 

Soups, consist chiefly of the broth from boiled meat, 
commonly called "stock," and may be varied in many 
ways, chiefly in the' kinds of vegetables and different sea- 
sonings used — as various herbs, burnt caramel, eggs, maca- 
roni, vermicelli, or slices of bread fried to a crisp in butter, 
which impart a savory relish. 

In order to have good soup it is necessary to know the 
most complete and economical method of extracting from 
a certain quantity of meat the best possible broth or 
"stock." The meats should be fresh and sweet. 



Stock. 
In preparing stock, which is the basis of most soups 
and meat sauces, it is not necessary always to go through 

9 



10 SOUPS 

the tedious processes prescribed by many. Simply ex- 
tract the juices of meats and bones by long and gentle 
simmering. A shank or other meat bones, the carcass of 
a roast turkey or chicken, the trimmings of roasts or 
steaks are all excellent to prepare stock from. Put in a 
pot and cover with cold water, add a handful of salt and 
boil gently for several hours. Do not add any vegetables 
or spices, as all vegetables lose their freshness and flavor 
by long continued cooking and the flavor of the spice 
might conflict with the other ingredients of the soup for 
which the stock is intended. Skim off all scum that may 
rise and add water from time to time as the stock boils 
away. "When ready to make the sou,p, take out all the 
meat and bones and strain the stock through a sieve, (a 
hair one if convenient) the stock is now ready for use 
unless a perfectly clear soup is desired. In that case, 
after the stock is strained, put it back in the pot and stir 
in one or two beaten eggs ; return to the fire and as it 
boils up the egg will rise ; skim off and strain again and 
the stock will be clear. If there is more than is required, 
for immediate "use, put aside in a stone or earthen jar, it 
will keep for several days in a cold place. 

Consomme Soup. 

Chop on a half pound of lean beef, one onion and a car- 
rot together 5' stir in four eggs, shells and all, then add 
three quarts of cold stock, put in a granite or porcelain 
kettle and let it come to a boil. Skim thoroughly. Boil 
slowly for fifteen or twenty minutes then strain through 
a cloth, and the consomme is ready to serve. If due at- 
tention has been given to this soup, it will be as clear as 
amber, whole and delicious, if properly prepared. 

Croutons. 
(Croutons (kroo-tawngz') consist of bread cut thin, in 
various shapes, and fried; used for gamishings.) 



SOOTS 11 

Prepare slices of stale bread, cut into i^ inch squares, 
drop these into pan having about one inch deep of boiling 
fat. When brown remove with skimmer and drain. Add 
to hot soup and serve at once. Extra fine. 

Consomme with Egg. 
Poach as many eggs soft as there are people to serve ; 
place an egg in each plate and pour over it a ladle full of 
the hot consomme and serve at once. 

Consomme with Egg No. 2. 
Make a custard of three eggs and half a cup of sweet 
milk. Bake but do not brown. When done, cut in half 
inch cubes, put in the soup ; let come to a boil and serve. 

Consomme with Tapioca. 
Boil your tapioca in salted water until clear, (for soups, 
pearled tapioca is preferable), put in the soup and boil 
ten minutes before serving. Consomme with Vermicelli : 
Boil the vermicelli in salted water until done, add to the 
soup and boil five minutes after serving. A nice seasoning 
is made by adding a small handful of chopped parsley or 
celery leaves. 

Creme Celery. 

Take two heads of celery, buttered toast, one ounce of 
buttery % ounce of flour, i/^ pint of milk, pepper, salt, 
browned breadcrumbs. Cut the celery into four-inch 
lengths, and tie«nto bundles. Boil till tender, then- drain, 
and lay on pieces of buttered toast. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, stir in the flour, and then the milk, and boil till 
thick ; season, and pour little over each bundle of celery. 

Consomme with Macaroni. 
Parboil the macaroni in salt water, when done, drain 
and add to the soup ; boil ten or fifteen minutes and serve. 



i2 SOUPS 

Tomato Soup. 

Take three quarts of stock and let it come to a boil; 
add to it one can of tomatoes, or its equivalent in fresh 
tomatoes, a half cupful pf rice and boil from one and a 
half to two hours. When the rice is thoroughly done, add 
a lump of butter the size of an egg, season with pepper 
and salt and a tablespoonful of sugar. 

Tomato Soup, No. 2. 

Take one- can of tomatoes; let them come to a boil; 
add a quarter of a teaspoon of baking soda. Let sea- 
soned milk come to a boil in a separate kettle, then pour 
the tomatoes over the mil,k. Add whipped cream. 

Cream Tomato (Mock Bisque Soup). 

Put two quarts of milk in a double boiler ; let it come to 
a boil. Put in a stew-pan a can of tomatoes, boil until 
soft, rub through a fine sieve, stir in a teaspoonful of soda 
to neutralize the acid. Rub a small tablespoonful of flour 
in a lump of butter the size of an egg arid stir in the boil- 
ing water, add the tomato, season with pepper and salt ; 
boil three minutes and serve. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

To one pint of milk, 1/3 can of corn, two teaspoonfuls 
flour, one tablespoonful butter, salt, pepper. Put corn and 
milk through sieve together, then put into double boiler 
and when steaming hot blend in butter and flour.- Then 
salt and pepper to taste. A dash of* cayenne improves it. 
Serve soup very hot. 

Potato Soup. 

Shred a large onion in three pints of milk, add two 
stalks of celery, cut fine, put in a double boiler and let it 
come to a boil. In the meantime pare and boil,six or seven 
medium sized potatoes ; when done, mash thoroughly, beat 



SOUPS 13 

light and add to the boiling milk, put in a lump of butter 
equal to two tablegpoonfuls, when melted, season with 
pepper and salt, put through a sieve And serve at once. 

Mutton Broth. 

Take three pounds of lean mutton and cut into small 
pieces. It is a good plan to get your butcher to cut the 
meat and break the bones for you. Put the meat in a 
granite or porcelain kettle, add two quarts of water and 
an even tablespoonful of salt; cover closely and boil 
slowly for two hours. Put through a strainer and skim 
off the fat. Eeturn to the kettle and stir in a well beaten 
egg ; as it comes to a boil skim and continue to do so until 
clear. It is now ready for use if only broth is required. 
If you wish to make it into a soup you can add rice, 
barley, chopped vegetables or anything that your judg- 
ment or taste may suggest. 

Corn Soup. 

Two quarts milk; one can Kornlet; butter, size of a 
walnut ; pepper and salt to tase. Put the milk in double 
boiler and let it come to a boil; add corn, then butter, 
pepper and salt; add teacup of whipped cream just be- 
fore serving. If fresh corn is used grate as much as will 
make one pint and use instead of kornlet. 

Barley Soup. 

Take two quarts of stock, and add to it one pound of 
lean beef, chopped fine, one teacupful of pearl barley; 
boil slowly to avoid storching, cook until the batley is 
thoroughly done, season with pepper and salt. A little 
chopped parsley is a nice addition. 

Bice Soup. 
Take either a shin of veal, a medium sized chicken or 
the remaias of two or three roast chickens, boil in three 
ttoarts of water until the meat is tender. Separate the 



14 SOUPS 

meat froin the bones and chop in pieces the size •£ a 
kernel of corn strain the liquor through a sieve, put back 
in the kettle, add a teacupful of rice and a head of celery, 
cut fine, boil until the rice is well done, add the chopped 
meat, season with pepper and salt, boil five minutes 
longer, and serve. 

Gumbo iSoup. 

Take a chicken (not too yoimg) and one-half pound of 
bacon. Chip the bacon in small slices and put in a 
smooth bottom iron kettle. Cup up the chicken, put in 
with the bacon and fry to a nice brown. Be careful not 
to scorch. "When brown add three quarts of water, one 
onion cut fine and any sweet herb you like (if the latter 
is used put it in a small bag), boil slowly for three or four 
hours. Strain off the liquor, skim off the fat, cut the 
chicken and bacon in small pieces, put all back in the 
kettle together -wrth. a teacupful of boiled rice and a half 
teacupful of okra, boil half an hour longer and just before 
serving add a dozen oysters, cut in halves, with the natural 
liquor of the oysters. 

Celery Cream. 

Take three or four heads of nice white celery, cut in 
small pieces, cover with water and boil until tender, 
which will take from one-half to a whole hour. When 
tender, drain off the water and mash fine. Have ready 
three pints of milk boiling hot and add to it the mashed 
celery, and the water in which it was boiled. Stir a table- 
spoonful of flour in a lump of butter the size of an egg, 
add to the cream, season with pepper and salt, boil three 
minutes and serve. 

Ox Tail Soup. 
Cut from a ham bone the small bits that cannot be 
saved in slices, put in a pan with an onion and a carrot 
sliced fine and a lump of butter the size of an egg and Ht 



SOUPS 15 

brown. Put in the pan four tablespoonfuls of flour and 
let brown again; add two quarts of good stock and boil 
forty minutes. Cut an ox tail in short lengths, put in a 
frying pan with a lump of butter and a very little water, 
cover, close and let it boil until the water is all gone, let 
the ox tail fry to a nice even brown all around, strain the 
stock and pour over the ox tail, add a cupful of boiled 
barley of rice, season with pepper and salt, let come to a 
"boil and serve. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Three quarts of stock, quarter of a head of cabbage, 
half a turnip, one carrot, two onions, three potatoes ; chop 
all the vegetables together, add to the stock and boil one 
hour, season to taste and serve. 

Madam CarviU's Vegetable Soup. 

Take medium size piece of soupmeat (knuckle of beef 
is best) , boil for two or three hours ; then strain and re- 
turn to the pot. Then take one-fourth head of cabbage, 
one carrot, two medium size onions, one white turnip, two 
or three stalks of celery, parsley, mix together and chop 
fine. One half cup of rice, add to broth when soup is near 
done; add one can of corn; one of tomatoes (strained). 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Makes about four 
quarts or enough for eight persons. 

Noodle Soup. 

Two quarts of stock, put in a kettle and let come to a 
boil. To make the noodles, break an egg in a bowl, put in 
a pinch of salt and work in as much flour as it will take, 
put on the pastry-board and mould smooth, roll out as 
thin as possible, rub a little flour over the surface, begin 
at one end and make into a compact roll; cut this into 
very thin slices, sprinkle a little more flour over them and 



16 SOUPS 

shake them loose. Chop fine a handful of green celery 
leaves, put noodles and leaves in the stock and boil fifteen 
minutes, add pepper and salt to taste. 

Mulligatawny. 
Brown an onion and a turnip with half a pound of lean 
chippediam in a sauce pan ; stir in one cupful of flour and 
pour over all three quarts of hot stock, add a three-pound 
can of tomatoes and boil two hours, put through a sieve. 
Have ready the meat of a chicken cut in dices and a cup^ 
ful of boiled rice. Season with a tablespoonful of curry 
powder, salt and pepper. 

Pea Soup. 

Take a can of peas or a quart of fresh peas, boil until 
tender and rub through a sieve, add a quart of milk, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper to taste and boil 
five minutes. Just before serving roll two soda crackers 
into the soup. Serve at once. 

Split Pea Soup. 
"Wash two pounds of split peas, put in saucepan with 
two quarts of water and boil for one hour. Drain off the 
water and add four quarts of good strong stock, a ham 
bone, an onion and a carrot chopped together. Let 
all boil together slowly for three or four hours, put 
through a sieve, season to taste and serve with sippets of 
bread. 

Asparagus Soup. 
Take a bunch of asparagus and cut in quarter inch 
lengths, boil until tender but not soft enough to mash, and 
drain off the water. Chop an onion very fine,' put in a 
stew-pan with a lump of butter, the size of an egg. and fry 
to a light brown, then add the asparagus and mix care- 
fully; when slightly browned. add one quart of boiling 
milk, let it boil up once, season with pepper and salt^andi 
serve immediately, 'hot. 



SOUPS , 17 

Asparagus Soup, No. 2. 

Take one can asparagus, cut off the tips, first cook the 
stalks till tender, then pass through colander. Prepare 
milk as for corn soup, add strained asparagus and tips, 
then let it come to a boil and add whipped cream. 

Okra Soup. 

Cut the okra in half inch pieces, boil tender in one^quart 
of stock, add the meat of a chicken or some roast veal, cut 
fine. Season to taste. 

Creamed Oyster. 
Let two quarts of milk come to a boil. Take three pints 
of oysters, drain off the liquor, put in a chopping bowl 
and chop fine. Stir two small tablespoonfuls of flour in 
four of melted butter. Put the oysters in the boiling 
milk, stir in the butter and flour, season with pepper and 
salt, let boil up once and serve. 

Bean Soup, Extra 
Take one cupful of nice white beans, parboil and drain; 
put in fresh water and boil until tender but not soft 
enough to mash. When done, add two quarts of milk and 
let come to a boil, put in lump of butter the size of an egg 
and season with pepper and salt. A few minutes before 
serving, break up four or five soda crackers, add to the 
soup, stir up well and serve. 

Lobster Soup. 
Take a can of lobsters and chop or pound it fine, put it 
in a sauce-pan and pour over it three pints of white stock 
and let it boil slowly for ten or fifteen minutes. Cook two 
tablespoonfuls of flour with two of butter but do not 
brown, add to the soup, season to taste and serve. 

Egg Soup. 
To one pint of water add a tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste ; break two fresh eggs in a cup, hold 



18 SOUPS 

the cup in the left hand and a fork in the right, pour the 
egg in slowly, beating briskly with the fork until the egg 
looks like white and yellow shreds. Take from the stove 
and serve. You can make this soup in a minute after the 
rest of your dinner is ready to serve. The water must boil 
when you stir in your eggs which should not be beaten 
imtil you beat them in the water. The amount given is 
enough for two persons. 

Cream of Chicken Soup. 

Get two large fat fowls and boi! them until they are 
very tender, take only the white meat, cut it up and press 
through a sieve, strain the stock and add to it the sieved 
chicken; season with a little salt and pepper and let it 
boil a few minutes; now take the yolks of a dozen raw 
eggs and whip up with a pint of sweet cream, stir this into 
the stock and keep stirring until it all begins to thicken ; 
now add two-thirds of a cup of butter, let it boil up once 
more, strain and serve in cups. 

Milk Soiip. 
Take four large potatoes, and two onions, cut fine and 
boil in two quarts of water until thoroughly done ; strain 
through a colander, put back in the kettle, add a pint of 
milk, three tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca, a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, season with salt and pepper. 
Boil slowly and stir often for fifteen or twenty minutes 
and serve hot. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Procure a knuckle of veal weighihg three or four 
pounds, one cow-heel, one large onion stuck with cloves, 
one bunch of sweet herbs, two blades of mace, salt to taste, 
eight peppercorns, one glass of sherry, twelve balls of 
stuffing, a little lemon juice, two quarts of water. Put all 
the ingredients, except the balls of stuffing and the lemon 
juice, in an earthen jar and stew for six hours. Do not 



SOUPS 19 

open it till cold. "'vVhen wanted for use, skim off all the 
fat, and strain carefully; place it on the fire, cut up the 
meat into inch and a half squares, put it, with the force- 
meat balls and lemon juice, into the soup and serve. It 
can be flavored with a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Clear Mock Turtle Soup. 
Take a calf's head, % pound of gravy bee|, one carrot, 
one turnip, % head of celery, one onion stuck with three 
cloves, bunch of herbs, ten peppercorns, blade of mace, 
salt, three ounces of bacon or ham, one glass of sherry, two 
qiiarts of water, the juice ofy^& lemon. "Wash and bone 
the head. Tie the meat in a cloth and chop the bones, 
put the meat, bones and half the vegetables and season- 
ing in a stewpan with the water, allow it to boil up and 
skim well. Simmer about three hours. Take the head 
up and strain the stock into a basin. When the stock is 
cold carefully remove the fat. Put the stock into a stew- 
pan with the remainder of the vegetables, and the meat 
finely shredded. Whisk over the fire until the soup is 
just on the boil. Draw it on one side, and allow it to 
simmer gently for ten minutes; when clarified, strain 
through a clean cloth, add the stock, some force-meat balls, 
and pieces of the head served in the soup. 

Julienne Soup. 

Procure i/4 pint of carrots, 14 piii* of turnips, ^4 piiit 
of onions, two leeks, % head of celery, y^, lettuce, a little 
sorrel, if liked, one ounce of butter, two quarts of stock. 
Cut the vegetables into strips l^^ inches long, and be 
particular they are all the same size, or some will be hard 
while the others will be done to a pulp. Cut the let- 
tuce and sorrel into larger pieces ; fry the carrots in the 
butter, and pour the stock, boiling, to them. When this 
is done, add all the other vegetables and herbs, and stew 
gently for at least an hour. Skim off all the fat, gour the 



20 SOUPS 

soup over thin slices of bread, cut roimd, about the size 
of a shilling, and serve. The soup has a better appear- 
ance if each vegetable is boiled separately in water and 
then added to the clear stock, at the moment of serving. 

Carrot and Lentil Soup. 

Procure four carrots, two sliced onions, one cut lettuce 
and chervil; two ounces butter, two pints of lentils, the 
crumbs of two French rolls, half a teacupful of rice, four 
quarts of stock. Put the vegetables with the butter in 
the stewpan, and let them simmer five minutes ; then add 
the lentils, which should have been soaked, all night, and 
one pint of the stock, and stew gently for half an hour. • 
Now fill it up with the remainder of the stock, let it boil 
another hour, and put in the crumbs of the rolls. When 
well soaked, rub all through a tammy. Have ready the 
rice boiled ; pour the soup over this and serve. 

Cucumber Soup. 
Procure one large cucumber, a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, a little sorrel, cut in large pieces, salt and 
pepper to taste, the yolks of two eggs, one gill of cream, 
one quart of stock. Pare the cucumber, quarter it^ and 
take out the seeds; cut it in thin slices, put these on a 
plate with a little salt, to draw the water from them; 
drain, and put them in your stewpan with the butter. 
When they are warmed through, without being browned, 
pour the stock on them. Add the sorrel, chervil and sea- 
soning, and boil for forty minutes. Mix the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs with the cream, which add at the mo- 
ment of serving. 

Hodge-Podge. 

Procure one pound of skin of beef, two quarts of water, 
% pint of table-beer, one onion, one carrot, one turnip, 
one head of celery, pepper and salt to taste, thickening 
of butter and flour. Put the meat, beer and water in a 



SOUPS 21 

stewpan; simmer for a few minutes, and skim carefully. 
Add the vegetables and seasoning; stew gently till the 
meat is tender. Thicken with butter and flour, and serve 
with turnips and carrots or spinach and celery. 

Shrimp Soup. 

You need two quarts of fish stock, two pints of shrimp, 
the crumbs of a French roll, anchovy sauce or mushroom 
ketchup to taste, one blade of mace, ^4 pi^^t of vinegar, 
a little lemon juice. Pick out the tails of the shrimps, 
put the bodies in a stewpan, with one blade of mace, y^ 
pint of vinegar, and the same quantity of water; stew 
them for quarter of an hour, and strain off the liquor. 
Put the fish stock into a stewpan, add the strained liquor, 
pound the shrimps with crumb of a roll, moistened with 
a little of the soup; rub them through a tammy, and mix 
them by degrees with the soup ; add ketchup or anchovy 
sauce to taste, with a little lemon juice. When it is well 
cooked, put in a few pickled shrimps ; let them get thor- 
oughly hot, and serve. If not thick enough put in a little 
butter and flour. 

Note. — ^This can be thickened with tomatoes and ver- 
micelli served in it, which makes it a very tasteful cup. 
The soup can be made of shrimps and garnished with 
prawns, where economy is an object. 

Onion Soup. 
Bight middling-sized onions, 3 oz. of butter, a table- 
spoonful of rice flour, salt and pepper to taste, one tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, thickening of btttter and 
flour, two quarts of water. Gut the onions small, put 
them in the stewpan with the butter, and fry them well ; 
mix the rice flour smoothly with the water, add the onions, 
seasoning and sugar, and simmer till tender. Thicken 
with butter and flour aiid serve. It is better to rub the 
soup through a sieve. Spanish onions make the best soup. 



2^ SOUPS 

Spinach Soup. 

Take as much spinach as, when boiled, will half fill a 
vegetable dish, two quarts of very clear stock. Make the 
cooked spinach into balls the size of an egg, and slip them 
into the soup-tureen. This is a very elegant soup, the 
green of the spinach, forming a pretty contrast to the 
brown gravy. 

White Soup. 
Procure ^ pound of sweet almonds, % ponnd of cold 
veal or poultry, a thick slice of stale bread, a piece of 
fresh lemon peel, one blade of mace, poTinded • % pint of 
cream, the yolks of two eggs, two quarts of white stock. 
Reduce the almonds in a mortar to a paste, with a spoon- 
ful of water, and add to them the meat, which should 
be previously pounded with the bread. Beat all together 
and add the lemon peel^ very finely chopped, and the mace. 
Pour the boiling ^ock on the whole, and simmer for an 
hour. Rub the eggs in the cream, put in the soup, bring 
it to a boil and serve immediately. 

Semolina Soup. 

You need five ounces of semolina, two quarts of boiling 
stock. Drop the semolina into the boiling stock, and keep 
stirring, to prevent its burning or going into lumps. Sim- 
mer gently for half an hour and serve. 

Vegetable Stock. 

Two quarts of water, two ounces of haricot beans, two 
ounces of split peas, one onion, one carrot, % stick of 
celery, parsley and herbs, pepper, salt;, 5 cloves and a 
blade of mace. Boil in two quarts of. water for three or 
four hours all the above vegetables, spice ancf herbs. 
Strain it off. It will keep for some time if it is let to 
stand and poured off from the sediment. 

Note. — This may serve as the basis of a good many 
soups and sauces, just as stock made of meat and bones 



SOUPS 23 

serves many purposes. All cooks may be assured that if 
gravy has to be made, and no meat is at hand to make 
it of, water in which any vegetables have been boiled 
(except potatoes) will be better than water from the 
tap or kettle. 

White Stock. 

Four pounds of knuckle of veal, any poultry trimmings 
or a rabbit, four slices of lean ham, 3 carrots, two onions, 
one head of celery, twelve white peppercorns, two ounces 
of salt, one blade of mace, a bunch of herbs, one ounce 
butter, four quarts of water. Cut up the veal, and put it 
with the bones and trimmings of poultry and the ham, into 
the stewpan, which has been rubbed with the butter. 
Moisten with I/2 ^ pint of water, and simmer till the gravy 
begins to flow. Then add the four quarts of water and the 
remainder of the ingredients ; simmer for five hours. After 
skimming and straining it carefully through a fine hair 
sieve, it will be ready for use. 

Note. — When stronger stock is desired, double the 
quantity of veal, or put in an old fowl. The liquor in 
which a young turkey or a fowl has been boiled is an 
excellent addition tO all white stock of soups, and the 
bird is better boiled in the stock pot than in water. Bones 
that have been boiled once for brown stock can be boiled 
again with fresh vegetables for white. 

Fish Stock. 

Take two pounds of good fresh fish that is cheap, such 
as shad, flounders or small eels, or the trimmings and 
heads of uncooked fish, a head of celery, a root of parsley, 
a blade or two of mace, a bay leaf, a few' cloves and white 
pepper, and salt to taste; three quarts of water. Put 
the whole into a pan, and let it simmer gently for a couple 
of hours ; then strain off the liquor, 



24 SOUPS 

Soup a la Busse. 

[Excellent.] Chop and cook together 14 pound of ham 
and % pound of beef ; then add six red beets grated, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, whites^ of three eggs, three or 
four cloves, salt to taste, eight cups of good soup stock; 
place over slow fire for one hour ; strain, heat, and serve. 

A little whipped cream to which some lemon juice has 
been added should be put on each plate. Or sour cream 
can be added. 

Veal Soup. 

Take a knuckle of veal and place in three quarts of cold 
water; add one tablespoonful of uncooked rice. Boil 
slowly four hours; reduce soup to half the quantity and 
remove from fire. Put yolk of one egg in the tureen, and 
stir in one teacupful of cream ; add butter size of a hick- 
ory nut, and then strain in the soup, boiling hot, stirring 
it thoroughly. 

The Czarina Russian Soup. 
Take ^ pound ham, y^ pound beef, chop and cook to- 
gether. Add six red beets, grated, one tablespoonful vin- 
egar, three or four cloves, whites of three eggs, salt and 
pepper to taste, eight cupfuls of good soup stock. Place 
over slow fire for one hour. Strain, heat and serve. A 
little whipped cream to which a little lemon juice has 
been added should be put on each plate, or sour cream 
can be substituted, 
quickly. 

Chicken Bouillon. 
Cook for thirty minutes, two stalks of celery, one slice 
of onion, siS peppercorns and % of a bay leaf in three 
pints of clear chicken stock. Strain, and when cool re- 
move' all the fat. "When wanted, heat to the boiling point, 
add a little salt and serve in cups. 




FISH AND HOW TO COOK IT. 



General Instructions. 
Fish caimot be too fresh. The sooner it is eaten after 
coming out of the water the better. In selecting fish for 
the table see that the flesh is firm, the eyes bright, the 
gills red, and the fins stiff. Nothing deteriorates more 
quickly than fish; as soon as it has lost its first freshness 
it has also lost its delicate flavor, and moreover becomes 
decidedly unwholesome. The principal ways of cooking 
fish are Prying, Boiling, Broiling, Baking and Stewing, 
and with but few exceptions all varieties can be rendered 
palatable by any of the above processes. In preparing 
fish for cooking, cleanse and wash thoroughly in cold 
water, be careful not to bruise or break, and do not leave 
it in the water longer than is absolutely necessary, as it 
destroys the flavor. An exception can be made in case 
of some varieties of fresh water fish which have a muddy 
flavor. These can be dressed, washed, and left in salt and 
water for two or three hours. Be sure and have the water 
cold. In boiling fish a fish kettle with a perforated bottom 
is a great convenience, but is not absolutely indispensable. 
Pish can be boiled very nicely in a deep dripping pan by 
wrapping it up in thin cloth and if the pan is not deep 
enough to cover the fish it can be turned over once or 

25 



26 FISH 

twice. The time required to boil a medium sized fish is 
from twenty to thirty minutes if the water is kept bub- 
bling all the time. But the surest test is to insert the 
blade of a knife between the fish and the bone ; if it flakes 
readily and separates easily it is ready to take from the 
fire. Pish that is to be broiled whole should be split down 
the back. 

With regard to sauces for fish it is difficult to give 
advice. There are many who would consider fish served 
without sauce as utterly flat, stale and unprofitable. Aiad 
again there are others, and they are by no means in the 
minority, who assume that the delicate flavors are dis- 
guised if not utterly destroyed by the addition of highly 
flavored sauCes. As a rule people who live near the sea- 
shore, and who can obtain fish in the highest state of ex- 
cellence, seldom use anything besides pepper and salt as 
seasoning. It is therefore a nice plan for the cook to 
study the tastes of those to whom she caters. 

Boiled Cod. 

Take a small cod or as many pounds as you need of a 
large one, cleanse and rub with salt, roll tightly in a thin 
cloth, pin and put in the kettle or pan, cover with cold 
water, add a tablespoonful of salt and boil until done. 
"When done lift out of the water, unroll carefully, leaving 
the cloth under the fish ; take the skin off the upper side^ 
turn the fish over by slightly raising the cloth and skin 
the other side, transfer to a platter, pour over it hot 
melted butter, garnish with parsley and serve. 

These directions will answer for all kinds of boiled 
fresh fish except salmon, which is rich enough without 
the melted butter. An egg dressing or Old Zealand sauce 
is more suitable for fish that are rich in oils. 

Salt Cod with Eggs. 
Pick a pint bowlful of the cod, put in a stew pan, cover 
•VFith water, set on the back gf the stpve and as the W9.tey, 



FISH 27 

becomes salt, change ; two or three times will be sufScient. 
When fresh enough drain off the water and add a lump 
of butter size of an egg and let it melt, then stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour and let cook, but do not brown; add 
three cups of milk and let come to a boil then break in 
carefully as many fresh eggs as there are persons to serve. 
Take the eggs out when the whites are done, place on a 
shallow dish, pour the fish over the eggs and serve. 

Salt Cod with Eggs No. 2. 
Prepare the fish as above and instead of dropping in 
the eggs whole, put in two and-stir in with a fork ; cook 
three minutes and serve. 

Fish Balls. 
Take one part fish and two parts raw potato, about 
three pints in all. Pare and cut the potatoes in halves, 
pick the fish, freeing it from bones and put in a kettle 
with the potatoes, the fish on top ; cover"with water and 
boil thirty minutes, drain and ma:sh potatoes and fish 
together, season with salt and pepper and a lump of butter 
size of an egg, then add two well beaten eggs and mix all 
thoroughly together. Have a kettle half full of hot fat, 
shape the mixture with a spoon and drop into the hot 
fat and fry to a light brown ; serve hot. 

Stewed Fish. 
Any kind of fish are good for stewing but catfish and 
bullhead are particularly suited to this style of cooking. 
Skin and cleanse the fish, and if small leave whole but 
if large cut into pieces suitable for serving. Shred an 
onion into a flat bottomed pan or kettle, add a lump of 
butter size of an egg, let brown slightly, - then lay the 
fish side by side in the pan, season with salt and pepper, 
cover with water, put a close cover over the whole and 
stew thirty minutes. Take the fish out of the kettle with 
a tin shovel, put on a hot platter, thicken the liquor with 
a spoonful of flour, pour over the fish and serve. 



28 FISH 

Boiled Salt Cod. 

Soak the fish over night ; when fresh enough place in a 
kettle and simmer from twenty to thirty minutes, place 
the pieces carefully on a platter, pour over it a cream sauce 
and serve. 

Boiled Salt White Fish. 
Salt white fish can be treated the same as salt cod, 
except that it must be pinned in a cloth to prevent its 
breaking while boiling. 

Boiled Flounders. 

Cleanse, wrap in a cloth and boil for tw;enty-five min- 
utes and serve with melted butter or Old Zealand sauce. 

Broiled Fish. 

All small fish, that is those weighing from one-half to 
three pounds, are suitable for broiling. Blue fish, cod, 
mackerel, trout, whitefish, perch, bass, pike and pickerel 
are -all excellent when broiled. Cleanse the fish, splitting 
down the back, wash and wipe dry, cutting off the fins 
with a pair of shears. Have a wire broiler, rub the wires 
with a piece of bacon or a little fat, to prevent sticking, 
put the fish in the broiler, and turn the inside to the fire 
first. As the cooking progresses sprinkle with a little salt 
and if the fish is of a dry variety put on a little melted 
butter from time to time. If the fish is very thick and 
there is danger of scorching before it is cooked through, 
place the broiler over a dripping pan and put in the 
oven; the even heat of the oven will soon finish cooking 
the fish, and will not destroy that peculiar flavor produced 
by broiling. Broiled fish should be served the instant it 
is done. Most people prefer broiled fish without sauce, 
but tomato, capers, anchovy. Old Zealand or Tartare sauce 
are considered desirable accessories by some. 



FISH 29 

Codfish Balls. 
(Splendid for breakfast.) 
One cupful picked-over codfish, two cups thinly sliced 
raw potatoes, pour water (boiling) over both, and cook 
until potatoes are done (not overdone), about ten min- 
utes. Strain quite dry, shake well, add a little pepper, 
% teaspoonful butter and one egg. Beat all together 
well, stand until cold and shape on tablespoon, then drop 
into hot fat until a good brown. (To be prepared just 
before using.) 

Pried Fish. 

Frying is one of the simplest methods of cooking fish, 
and therefore easily acquired. All small fish should be 
fried whole, while larger fish can be split down the back 
and then cut in suitable pieces. Pork fat, lard or drip- 
pings are all used, but the first is preferable. After the 
fish is cleaned and washed, sprinkle with salt and let 
it stand for some time, but be sure and keep it in a cold 
place. Fill the spider or kettle half- full of fat, roll the 
fish in flour and put in the hot fat and fry to a nice brown. 
Serve with or without sauce, as desired, but tomato sauce 
forms a particularly fine addition to fried fish. 

All fish steaks, such as cod, halibut, haddock and salmon, 
can be cooked and served in the above manner but you 
can vary the form of cooking by sometimes dipping the 
steaks in beaten egg and then in cracker crumbs and 
frying to a brown, and again there are some kinds of 
fish that are much better by being fried in butter. Brook 
trout, smelts and salmon steak are among the number. 

Fried Smelts. 
Cut the fish open and cleanse but leave the head on. 
Lay on a plate and sprinkle with salt. Have enough 
hot fat in a frying pan to float the fish, dip the smelts 
in flour and dry fropx two to three rjinutes. 



30 FISH 

Fried Smelts No. 2. 
Make'a thin batter of one beaten egg, half a cup of milk 
and an even tablespoonfnl of flour, add a pinch of salt. 
Cleanse the fish removing the heads, and sprinkle with 
salt as above. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a fry- 
ing pan and when hot pour in half the batter and into 
this lay the smelts side by side as close as they can be laid 
and covering the whole bottom of the pan then over 
the whole pour the rest of the batter and fry to a nice 
brown, turn over as you would a pancake. When both 
sides are a nice brown cut in squares and serve at once. 

Fried Herring. 

Fried herring is much nicer when boned before frying. 
Scale and wash the fish, cutting off the head. Hold the 
fish, in the left hand and insert the thumb of the right 
hand at the shoulder next the backbone and work the 
thumb slowly the whole length of the spine, then turn 
over and do the other side in like manner. If this process 
is gone through carefully the whole skeleton can be taken 
out without losing a bone and also without breaking the 
fish. When loose cut the boae close to the tail and trim 
off the fins with a pair of shears, sprinkle the fish with 
salt, roll in fiour, fry in hot fat until bro^^n and serve. 

To Cook Eels. 

Skin and cleanse the eels and cut in two inch lengths. 
Slice half a pound of fat pork and fry to a crisp; take 
out the pork and put the eel in the pan • if small set the 
lengths up on end, but if/large you can put them in the 
pan lengthwise ; sprinkle with salt and a very little pepper, 
add half a cup of water, cover lightly so that part of the 
steam can escape, put on the fire and cook until the water 
has all boiled away and one side of the eel is fried to a 
nice brown, then turn over carefully and fry the Other 
side. 



FISH 31 

Baked Fish. 
Only large fish are suitable for baking and all varieties 
are treated in much the same manner. Scale and clean 
the fish, leaving on the head and rub wit'a salt. Make a 
dressing of a bowl of bread or cracker crumbs, a quarter 
of a pound of salt pork chopped fine, a small onion or a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley; salt and peppe-r to 
taste; mix thoroughly together and put in the body of 
the fish. Cut gashes along the back of the fish about "^an 
inch apart, into each gash place a small strip of fat pork 
securing them in place with small skewers; tooth picks 
will answer nicely, put the fish in the pan and dredge 
with salt, pepper and flour, put a cupful of water in the 
bottom of the pan and bake for about an hour, basting 
frequently. If the water in the pan evaporates, add 
more. 

Pish Chowder. 

Haddock, cod and striped bass are best for chowder 
but any kind of fresh fish can be used. 

Cut a pound of salt pork in slices put in an iron kettle 
and fry tiU crisp; remove the pork leaving the fat and 
put in the kettle a layer of fish cut in pieces one inch thick 
and two inches square ; sprinkle the fish with salt, pepper 
and a dash of red pepper, put in a layer of broken crackers, 
some of the fried pork chopped fine and a finely sliced 
onion, then another layer of fish, another of cracker, sea- 
soning and so on. Cover with water, and stew until done. 
Eemove the fish, thicken the liquor with rolled cracker or 
flour, pour over ^the fish and serve. Sauce or wine can be 
added if desired. 

Scalloped Fish. 

Take any cold fresh fish, as trout or whitefish ; that left 
from a previous meal will do nicely ; pick into flakes and 
be careful to free from all bones, put in the bottom of an 



32 FISH 

earthen pudding dish a layer of cracker crumbs then a 
layer of fish, put in a little pepper, salt if necessary, add 
a tablespoonful of melted butter, then another layer of' 
crumbs, then of fish, seasoniag and so on until the dish 
is nearly full. Have a layer of cracker on top and over 
the whole pour enough milk to nearly cover, put a small 
plate on top and bake for thirty or forty minutes in a 
brisk oven. Ten minutes before serving, take off the 
plate to let it brown. If possible serve out of the dish in 
which it was prepared by placing the dish inside another 
and putting a garnish of parsley around the edge. 

Eel with, Tartare Sauce. 
Take two pounds of eels, one carrot, one onion, a little 
flour, one glass of sherry ; salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste ; 
bread crumbs, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
Bub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan; cut up the 
carrot and onion, and stir them oyer the fire for five min- 
utes ; dredge in a little flour, add the wine and seasoning, 
and boil for half an hour. Skin and wash the eels, cut 
them into pieces, put them to the other ingredients, and 
simmer till tender, "When they are done take them out, 
let them get cold, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, 
and fry them a nice brown. Put them on a dish, pour sauce 
piquante over, and serve them hot. 

Fillets of Mackerel. 

Procure two large mackerel, one ounce butter, one 
small bunch of chopped herbs, three tablespoonfuls of good 
fish stock, three tablespoonfuls of French white sauce, 
salt, cayenne and lemon juice to taste. , Clean the fish, 
and fillet it; scald the herbs, chop thent fine, and put 
them with the butter and stock into a stewpan. Lay- in 
the mackerel, and simmer very gently for ten minutes; 
' take them, out, and put them on a hot dish. Dredge in 
a little fiour, add the other ingredients, give one boil, and 
pour it over the mackerel. 



FISH 33 

Salmon with Caper Sauce. 
Take two slices of salmon, i/4 pound butter, % teaspoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, one shalot, salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg to taste. Lay the salmon in a baking dish, place 
pieces of butter over it, and add the other ingredients, 
rubbing a little of the seasoning into the fish; baste it 
frequently; when done take it out and drain for a min- 
ute or two; lay it in a dish, pour caper sauce over it, 
and serve. Salmon dressed in a similar way, and with 
tomato sauce, is very delicious. 

Baked Black Bass. 

Scale and elean fish thoroughly ; stuff with a compound 
made of eight good-sized onions chopped fine, % that 
quantity of bread crumbs, butter size of hen's egg, 
pepper and salt to taste, all thoroughly mixed with an- 
chovy sauce until quite red,* pour any remaining com- 
pound over fish, previously sprinkling a little red pepper 
over it. Tomatoes can be used instead of anchovies, in 
which case take finely chopped pork in place of butter. 

Fried Eels. 
Skin and parboil the eels; cleanse the backbone of all 
coagulations ; cut in pieces about three inches long ; dip 
in flour and cook brown in pork fat. 

Fish Croquettes. 
Take dressed fish of any kind ; separate from the bones, 
mince with a little seasoning, an egg beaten with a tea- 
spoonful of flour and one of milk; roll into balls, brush 
the outside with egg and dredge well with bread and 
cracker crumbs and fry brown. Make a gravy for it by 
using bones, heads, tails, an onion, an anchovy, a little 
flour and a pint of water. 




SHELL FISH AND HOW TO PREPARE IT. 

Oysters on the Half Shell. 
Oysters to be eaten on the half shell should not be 
opened until just before serving. If possible get a market 
man to open your oysters for you or at least show you how 
it is done. About six are allowed for each person. Put 
the oysters on the half shelf on a dinner plate, put a slice 
of lemon in the center and serve. 

Oysters on the Half Shell, No. 2. 

Place half a dozen oysters on the half shell on a dinner 
plate, and an empty shell in the middle to contain tlie 
vinegar, etc. If it is not convenient to obtain shell oysters, 
very nice ones can be obtained in bulk ; theSe are served 
on small plates with a slice of lemon or on regular oyster , 
plates, which have cavities for half a dozen oysters, also 
extra ones for the seasoning. Put both oysters and platea 
on the ice for an hour or two before serving. 

Oysters on a Block of Ice. 

Saw a block of ice to fit a platter, square if you have 
one. A block twelve or fourteen inches square, by eight 

34 



SHELL FISH 35 

or nine deep, is a nice size. Into the middle of the block 
make a cavity by placing on it a tin basin of hot water; 
as the ice melts pour off the water and keep renewing the 
water in the tin until the cavity will hold as many oysters 
as you wish to serve. You can judge the capacity of the 
cavity by that of the basin. Drain the oysters in a colan- 
der, then put them in the ice^ garnish or trim the dish 
with parsley, celery, cress or flowers. This is not only a 
nice way to serve oysters, but is also an elegant orna- 
ment for a table. 

Fried Oysters. 
Put the oysters in a colander, pour water over them, 
then take out and wipe dry. Have some crackers rolled 
fine, season with pepper and salt and put on a platter. 
Beat an egg and dip the oysters in it, then roll in the 
cracker crumb and lay them on a plate covered with the 
cracker dust. Fry crisp and brown in hot lard or butter, 
or half and half of each. Serve at once. 

Broiled Oysters. 
Dry large selected oysters, place on a fine wire broiler, 
turning often. - Have some toast prepared, butter the 
oysters, season with' salt and pepper, place on the toast, 
put in the oven for a moment to heat, and serve. 

Oysters Boasted in the Shell. 

"Wash the shells and wipe them dry, put in a baking 
pan and bake for twenty or twenty-five minutes in a brisk 
oven. Serve on hot plates as soon as taken from the oven. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Put a quart of oysters in a colander, wash thoroughly 
by pouring cold water over them. Reduce eight or ten 
crackers to dust by roiling them. Butter an earthen pud- 
ding dish, put a layer of cracker dust in tHk bottom of the 
'dish, then a layer of oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper 



36 SHELL FISH 

and pour then two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and 
three of milk, then another of cracker and so on until 
the dish is nearly full. Have a layer of the cracker dust 
on top with small lumps of butter through it. Bake 
about one half hour. 

Scalloped Oysters, No. 2. 
A layer of pounded crackers, a layer of oysters with 
salt, pepper and butter; bake % hour. Omelet: Two 
eggs to a tablespoonful of milk. 

Oyster Stew. 

Let three pints of water come to a boil, put in one quart 
of oysters, half a cup of butter and season with salt and . 
pepper, let it boil up once more and serve at once. 

Milk Stew. 
One quart of milk and one pint of water, let them boil 
together, then add one quart of oysters, a lump of 'butter 
the si?;e of an egg, season with salt and pepper and let come 
to a boil once more, then add a double handful of crushed 
crackers and serve. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Put in a porcelain kettle a hundred large oysters with 
the liquor arid simmer until the edges curl ; take out the 
oysters and add to the liquor a scant pint of vinegar,' ten 
or a dozen blades of mace, a tablespoonful each of pepper- 
corn and cloves.; let it come to a boil and pour over the 
oysters. 

Oyster Pie. 
Line a pudding dish with a rich biscuit crust and dredge 
well with flour, put in a quart of washed oysters, season 
with salt and pepper, add two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and half a cu^ of milk, dredge with flour, put on the top 
cru^t cutting a small opening for the steam to escape. 
Bake about half an hour. 



SHELL PISH 37 

Oyster Patties. 
Boil a quart of oysters with just enough liq,uor to cover 
them ; as soon as they come to a boil, season with salt and 
pepper and three tablespoonfuls of butter. Line some 
patty pans with puflf paste, fill with the oysters and cover 
them well with roUed cracker. Bake fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 

Fricasseed Oysters. 
Put on a kettl9 of water and add a good sized hand- 
spoonful of hot water, salt and pepper, and a dash of 
cayenne pepper. Boil for about three minutes, shaking 
the pan to keep from sticking. Strain out the oysters and 
add to the liquor a gill of cream. Cook, but do not brown, 
a tablespoonful each of butter and flour together. Add 
slowly the oyster liquor and cream, when boiling hot stir 
in one well beaten egg, add the oysters, pour the whole 
over buttered toast, and serve. 

Lobster a la Newburgh. 
One heaping tablespoonful butter, one cupful cream, % 
gill or 14 eup sherry or Madeira, yolks of three eggs, two 
cups chopped lobster ; season with salt and pepper. Melt 
butter in chafing dish, add wine and cook until the wine 
is partly evaporated; mix cream and beaten yolks and 
add to butter and wine, stir till it thickens, then add 
seasoning and stir in the lobster. 

Boiled Lobster. 

Put on a kettle of water' and add a good sized hand- 
ful of salt; when the water boils fast plunge in the 
lobster alive. Boil for about half an hour ; take out the 
fish and rub the shell with a little oil or lard, split the 
body the whole length with a sharp knife, crack the claws, 
cut off the head, and serve with crisp lettuce. 



i SHELL FISH 

Broiled Lobster. 

Take the meat of the claws and tail ; split if too thick, 
lason with salt and pepper, and dust with flour ; put in a 
ire broiler and cook over a clear fire, as it cooks, pour 
^er it a little melted butter ; when a nice brown put on a 
jt dish and serve. Sauce can be added if desired. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

Take two cans of lobster or the meat of a large fresh 
le and cut into pieces half an inch square. Put in a stew- 
m a lump of butter the size of an egg and cook intd it 
small tablespoonful of flour and two rolled crackers, 
len add a cupful of. milk and a beaten egg; when it boils, 
Id the lobster, stir and take off the fire. Butter a square 
a pan and pour the mixture into it. It should be about, 
1 inch thick. When cool cut in squares, dip in beaten 
;g, then in cracker crumbs, put in a wire basket, plunge 
hot fat and fry to a nice brown. Arrange on a hot 
atter, garnish with parsley, and serve. 

Lobster Curry. 
Put in a frying pan a lump of butter size of an egg 
id shred into it a small onion, and fry broAvn; when 
■own add a tablespooonful of flour, two small teaspoon- 
Is of curry powder^ a very little cayenne and a pinch of 
It; then add. two cupfuls of milk or water;; when it, boils 
) add the meat of one large lobster or two cans of 
bster, cut into small bits, simmer a few minutes ; pour 
I a hot platter, border with rice croquettes and serve. 

Soft Shell Crabs. 

After lifting off the shell, remove the spongy substance 
und on the back, put off the apron (the fat skin cover: 
g the surface), season with salt and pepper, a,nd fry in 
it^fatf^r_a^out ten minutes. 



SHELL FISH 39 

Clam Chowder. 
One-half pound salt pork cut in dice, % an onion minced 
fine, fry them together, strain off the grease and put in 
1% gallons of stock; let it boil, add six large potatoes, 
cut in slices or dice, add three dozen clams cut up ; when 
potatoes are quite soft add one quart of boiling milk, 
% pound good butter, season with salt and pepper ; if • 
not thick enough dissolve two tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, and thicken the soup with it. 

Lobster Patties. 
Take minced lobster, four tablespoonfuls of French 
white sauce, six drops of anchovy sauce, lemon juice, 
cayenne to taste. Line the patty pans with puff paste, 
and fill each with floiir ; cover with paste, brush over with 
egg, and bake of a light color. Take as much lobster as 
is required, mince the meat very fine, and add the above 
ingredients ; stir it over the fire for five minutes ; remove 
the lids of the patty pans, take out the fiour, fill with the 
mixture, and replace the covers. 

Buttered Prawns. 
Needed one pint of picked prawns, % of a pint of stock ; 
thickening of butter and fiour ; salt, cayenne and nutmeg 
to taste. Pick the prawns and put them into stewpan 
with the stock. Add a thickening, of butter and flour, 
season, and simmer gently for three minutes. Serve on a 
dish garnished with fried bread or toasted sippets. Cream 
sauce may be substituted for the gravy. 

To Choose Lobsters. 

These are chosen more by weight than size ; the heaviest 
are best ; a good, small-sized one will not infrequently be 
found to weigh .as heavily as one much larger. If fresh 
a lobster will be lively and the claws have a strong motion 
when the eyes are pressed with the fingers. 



40 SHELL PISH 

The male is best for boiling; the flesh is firmer, and 
the shell a brighter red; it may be readily distinguished 
from the female ; the tail is narrower, and the two upper- 
most fins within the tail are stiff and hard, Those of the 
hen lobster are not so, and the tail is broader. 

Broiled Oysters. 
Dry one quart of oysters in a cloth; dip each oyster in 
melted butter well peppered ; then in beaten egg, or not, 
as preferred, then in bread or cracker crumbs, peppered ; 
broil on a wire broiler over live coals, three to five min- 
utes. Smear over each a little melted butter. Serve hot. 

Crab Croquettes. 

Pick the meat of boiled crabs and chop fine ; moisten 
well with milk or cream; stiffen slightly with crackers 
rolled fine ; add two or three well-jjeaten eggs to bind the 
mixture. Form the croquettes; egg and bread crumb 
them and fry delicately in boiling lard, using a frying- 
basket for the purpose. 

Jumbo Fried Oysters. 

[N. B. — For the following choice recipe acknowledg- 
ment is due to an experieiiced oyster-house chef, who 
furnishes it for exclusive publication in The American 
Woman's Cook Book.] 

To fry small pysters in a way to make them resemble 
the largest selects;, beat well together one quart of milk 
and four eggs ; add pepper and salt to taste ; roll sufficient 
fresh crisp crackers fine ; then stick several small oysters 
on a two-tined steel fork and dip in milk and egg mixture 
and then in the rolled crackers ; press well together ; re- 
peat the dipping and pressing three or four times, and 
then shape to suit. Have some lard boiling hot in a deep 
frying-pan ; put oysters in a frying basket and submerge 
in the lard until done. Cannot be told from tbe finest 
large oyster^. 




How to Select Beef. 

e 
In selecting beef see that the grain is smooth and 
open ; if the fiber parts or breaks readily on being pressed 
by the finger, it will be found to be tender. The color 
should be a deep rose, and the fat a rich cream color; 
if the fat is white it is an indication that the beef is 
young and lacking in flavor, and if of a deep yellow, the 
meat will be apt to be tough and of inferior quality. 
The choicest cuts for roasting are the sixth, seventh and 
eighth ribs, the sirloin and porterhouse cuts. In selecting 
steak, avoid the first three or four cuts, as they are apt to 
be broken and stringy. Sirloin and short cut porterjiouse 
steaks are best, although the pinbone steak is considered 
best by many. Round steak is almost invariably tough. 
Beef tenderloin, cut across the grain, makes most delicious 
steak. Beef steak should be broiled, not fried. 

Roast Beef. 
After selecting the roast at the market if the rib is 
too long for the roast to present a symmetrical appear- 
ance, have the butcher saw off about four inches of the 
rib and remove the chine, leaving the ribs in the roast. 
All meats are better flavored and more nutritious by be- 
ing cooked without removing at least some of the bones. 
To prepare for roasting, wash the meat and wipe dry with 

41 



42 BEEP 

a fowel, dredge with salt and pepper, put in the pan on 
a rack, if you have one, pour a pint of water in the pan, 
and put in the oven. The oven should be very hot for 
the first ten or fifteen minutes, to harden the albumen, 
after that a more moderate heat will answer. The time 
required to roast beef is from ten to twenty minutes to 
the pound, according as it is to be rare, medium, or well 
done. Baste every ten or fifteen minutes. Some cooks 
dredge the roast with flour to prevent the juices frofn 
escaping. A few minutes before serving, remove the 
meat from the pan, place in the warming closet and into 
the gravy stir a tablespoonful of flour mixed With half 
a cup of water; if too thick, add more water. If there is 
too much fat it should be skimmed off before thickening 
the gravy. Serve the roast on a hot platter and the gravy 
in a hot boat. 

Braised Beef. 

Take four or five pounds of beef, that with a .little fat 
on it is best, and have it cut in squares about three inches 
long by two broad, and 1% or two inches thick, dredge 
with salt and pepper and a little flour. Slice % pound of 
fat pork into an iron dripper or braising pan, fry until 
crisp, draw to one side and slice in two onions and ^ of a 
small carrot, fry these until brown, and then put in the 
beef, laying the pieces side by side, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of water and cover, cook slowly until the meat is 
brown on all sides ; it will take from two to three hours ; 
when done, take out the meat, add a pint of water, stir a 
tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little water, 
pour around the meat and serve. 

Beef Stew. 

Take two or three pounds of clean beef or the remnants 
of a roast, cut into small, pieces, put in a stewpan, "cover 
with water and boil until tender, add a small lump of 



BEEF 43 

butter and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
smooth ^ith a little cold water. Some prefer a few vege- 
tables boiled with the meat, or a few dumplings make 
a nice addition. 

Beef a La Mode. 
You need about three pounds of clod or flank of beef, 
two ounces of clarified dripping, one large onion, flour, 
two quarts of water, twelve berries of allspice, two bay- 
leaves, % teaspoonful of whole black pepper, salt to taste. 
Cut the beef into small pieces, and roll them- in flour ; put 
the dripping into a stewpan with the onion, which should 
be sliced thin. Let it get quite hot ; lay in the pieces of 
beef, and stir them well about. When nicely browned all 
over, add by degrees boiling water in the above propor- 
tion, and, as the water is added, keep the whole well 
stirred. Put in the spice, bay-leaves, and seasoning, cover 
the stewpan closely, and set it by the side of the fire 
to stew very gently, till the meat becomes quite tender, 
which will be in about three hours, when it will be ready 
to serve. Remove the bay-leaves before it is sent to table. 

Scotch Roll. 
Take four or five pounds of the flank of a beef, wash 
and dry with a towel, spread on the board and dredge 
with salt and pepper. Make a dressing of a quart of 
bread crumbs, moistened with milk or water, and seasoned 
with two tablespobnfuls of melted butter, a small onion 
chopped fine, a tablespoonful of powdered sage, and pepper 
and salt to taste, mix all well together and spread evenly 
over the meat. Roll up and tie with twine, put in a pan 
with a pint of water and bake for two or three hours, 
rolling over often so as to cook even on all sides. 

Pried Beefsteak. 
In very hot frying pan put a little fat, then your steak, 
season with salt and pepper ; fry to a nice brown ; cover 



44 BEEP 

tightly while, cooking. When done, spread some good 
butter over it and serve. 

Beef Steak with Onions. 
Prepare a rump steak by pounding until quite tender, 
season with salt, pepper and fresh butter, put in steak and 
fry. When brown on one ' side, turn over, do not let 
scorch; when nearly done take up, put little flour over 
the steak, then add gradually cup of hot water, seasoned 
with more salt and pepper if necessary; then put the 
water over the fire- and boil again, and pour over steak. 
Peel one dozen onions, put on to boil with two quarts of 
water, an hour before the steak is put on to fry. When 
done, cut up, put in fryingipan, season well with salt, pep- 
per and butter, sprinkle with flour, stir all 'well together, 
place over fire, stir often to prevent scorching. When 
they are a little brown and soft, turn them over the steak. 

Broiled Beefsteak. 

Have the steak from % to an inch, in thickness. Never 
pound steak. Butter steak and broil quickly over a clear 
fire, season with salt and pepper, put a piece of good but- 
ter on a hot plate and the steak on top. Serve at once. 

Hamburger Steak. 
Chop a pound of lean beef very fine, a small piece of 
suet makes a good addition ; shred an onion, mix with the 
beef, season with salt -and pepper, and a little savory ; 
fry in butter and serve. 

Corned Beef. 
It takes a cook to make nice corned beef. This meat 
should be boiled slow and when done take pot and all 
off the fire, leaving the corned beef in its stock until 
wanted to send to the table. Any piece left over to be 
used cold, should be lef ^ in the stock until cold and then 
taken out, put on a plate and placed in the refrigerator. 



BEEF 45 

Filet of Beef Larded. 
Order the filet from your butcher larded. About five 
pounds will be enough for a dinner of eight persons. Cut 
an onion, a carrot and ^ of a turnip in slices, and put 
in the pan intended to roast the filet ; salt the meat, pour 
a little fat over it and put in the oven to roast. Should 
the top or larding ends get too brown, butter a piece of 
paper on both sides and place over the meat. Thirty 
minutes will be required to cook a five pound filet rare. 
Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Fillet of Beef, Larded, No. 2. 

This is the tenderloin, although the sirloin is sometimes 
used. Trim off fat, tough skin, etc., and skewer into 
shape around lard with salrt pork. Dredge well with 
salt, pepper and flour, and put, ■\yithout water, in small 
pan. Put in hot oven, thirty minutes in lower part, fif- 
teen then on upper grate. Serve with mushroom sauce 
or potato balls. 

Beefsteak Toast. 
Chop pieces of cold steak very fine, put in a stewpan 
with a small lump of butter and enough water to more 
than cover. Boil twenty minutes, then stir in a well 
beaten egg. Season with salt and pepper, pour over 
toasted bread and serve hot. 

Beef Kidney. 

Take one kidney, one desert spoonful of minced parsley, 
one teaspoonful of minced shalot, salt and pepper to 
taste, Yi pint of gravy, three tablespoonfuls of sherry. 
Take off a little of the kidney fat, mince it very fine, and 
put it in a frying pan ; slice the kidney, sprinkle over it 
parsley and shalots in the above proportion, add a season- 
ing of pepper and salt, and fry it to a nice brown. When 
it is done enough, dredge over a little flour, and pour in 
the gravy and sherry. Let it just simmer, but not boil 



46 BEEF 

any more, or the kidney would harden; serve very hot,^ 
and garnish with croutons. Where the flavor of the shalot 
is disliked, it may be omitted, and a small quantity of 
savory herbs substituted for it. 

Beef Kidney, No. 2. 

(A more simple method.) Cut the kidney into thin 
slices, flour them, and fry to a nice brown. When done, 
make a gravy in the pan by pouring away the fat, putting 
in a small piece of butter, i/4 pint of boiling water, pepper 
and salt, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Let 
the. gravy just boil up, pour over the kidney and serve. 

Beefsteak Pie. 
Take three pounds of steak, seasoning to taste, of salt, 
cayenne and black pepper, crust, water and the yolk of 
an egg. Have the steaks cut from a rump that has hung 
a few days, that they may be tender, and be particular 
that every portion is perfectly sweet. Cut the steaks 
into pieces about three inches long and two wide, allow- 
ing a small piece of fat to each piece of lean, and arrange 
the meat in layers in a pie-dish. Between each layer 
sprinkle a seasoning of salt, pepper and, when liked, a 
few grains of cayenne. Fill the dish sufficiently with 
meat to support the crust, and to give it a nice raised 
appearance when baked, and not to look flat and hollow. 
Pour in sufficient water to half fill the dish, and border 
it with paste (see Pastry); brush it over with a little 
water, and put on the cover ; slightly press down the edges 
with the thumb, and trim off close to the dish. Ornament 
the pie with leaves or pieces of paste, cut in any shape 
that fancy may direct, brush it over with the beaten 
yolk of an egg, make a hole in the top of the crust, and 
bake in a hot oven for one hour and a half. The addition 
of some sheep's kidneys is an improvement; or, if these 
cannot be had, some bullock's kidney, cut up small, is al- 
most as good, and forms an excellent gravy. 



BEEP 47 

Beef Cake. 

Take the remains of cold roast beef; to each pound of 
cold meat allow y^ pound of bacon or hain; seasoning to, 
taste, of pepper and salt, one small bunch of minced 
savory herbs, one or two eggs. Mince the beef very 
finely (if under done, it will be better), add to it the ba- 
con, which must also be chopped very small, and mix well 
together. Season, stir in the herbs, and bind with an egg, 
or two should one not be sufficient. Make it into small 
square cakes, about half an inch thick, fry them in hot 
drippings, and serve in a dish with good gravy poured 
round them. 

Boiled Tongue. 

Take one beef tongue, a bunch of savory herbs and 
water. If the tongue is salted, it must be soaked in fresh 
water over night ; if fresh, salt must be added to the' water 
in which it is boiled ; when tender take out of the kettle, 
put in a pan, pour cold water over it, and peel off the 
skin, trim off the roots and tip, and serve. 

Stewed Ox-Tails. 
Take two ox-tails, one onion, three cloves, one blade 
of mace, % teaspoonful of whole black pQpper, y^ tea- 
spoonful of allspice, ^ teaspoonful of salt, a small bunch 
of savory herbs, thickening of butter and flour, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. Divide the tails at the joints, wash and put 
them into a stewpan with suflcient water to qpver them, 
and set them on the fire ; when the water boils remove the 
scum, and add the onion cut into rings, the spice, season- 
ing and herbs. Cover the stewpan closely, and let the 
tails simmer very gently until tender, which will be in 
about 21/^ hours. Take them out, make a thickening of 
butter and flour, add it to the gravy, and let it boil for 
1/4 of an hour. Strain it through a sieve into a sauce- 
pan, put back the tails, add the lemon juice and ketchup ; 



48 BEEP 

let the whole just boil up, and serve. Garnish with 
croutons or sippets of toastad bread. 

Potted Beef. 

Take the remains of cold roast or boiled beef, ^ 
pound of butter, cayenne to taste, two blades of pounded 
mace. Cut up the meat into small pieces and pound 
it well, with a little butter, in a mortar; add a season- 
ing of cayenne and mace, and be very particular that the 
latter ingredient is reduced to the finest powder. When 
all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, put it into a 
glass or earthen -potting pot, and pou^ over the top a 
coating- of clarified butter. 

Creamed Beef. . 

Put a lump of butter the' size of an egg in a frying pan, 
when it is melted add cold roast beef, cut in thin slices 
or chipped dried beef, and fry to a nice brown ; then add 
a tablespoonful of flour, and' stir well; last of all add 
enough water or milk to make a nice cream. Can be 

served on toast or not, as preferred. 

' ■ \ 

Fillet -of Beef. 

A fillet of beef is the tenderloin, but, as tenderloin is 
very expensive, a very good fillet can be made from the 
"roll," which is simply the thick part of the rib sepa- 
rated from the bone. 

Directions for cooking a fillet of beef will be found 
under the head of Roast Beef. 

Spiced Beef. 

Four pounds of round beef chopped fine ; take from it 
all fat ; add to it three dozen small crackers rolled fine, 
four eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful ground 
mace, two tablespoonfuls of black pepper, one tablespoon- 
ful melted butter; mix well and put in any tin pan that 
it will just fill, packing it well ; baste with butter and 
water, and bake two hours in a slow oven. 




"^IM. 




Roast Veal. 
A loin of veal roasted makes a splendid dinner dish. 
Roast in a pan with some sliced vegetables, put a piece 
of bread in the pan, and it will cook to pieces and thicken 
the gravy; small pared potatoes baked with the meat in 
the same pan make a good 'vegetable to serve with veal ; 
both should be basted every few minutes. 

Fricassee of Veal. 
The breast or shoulder of veal cut into pieces is the 
best for fricassee. "Wash the veal and put on in cold 
water, let it come to a boil, take out the meat, wash again- 
and put in fresh water once more, and let stew until 
done ; mix a cupful of flour with y^ a cup of butter, dis- 
solve this in the pan of veal, season with salt and pepper, 
and serve. 

Breast of Veal Stuffed. 
Obtain a breast of veal, boned and opened; fill the 
breast loosely with a good bread stuffing, sew up the 
open end and braise in a pan with vegetables; as for 
roasting only keep your pan covered; cook well done 
and make sauce in pan as for roast beef. 

49 



50 VEAL 

Veal Loaf. 

Take three or four pounds of cold roast or boiled veal, 
that off the leg or loin is best ; chop fine and mix in 
six rolled crackers, two eggs, a lump of butter the size 
of an egg, season with salt and pepper ; mix all well 
together, and shape into a loaf, covering the outside with 
cracker dust. Bake forty-five minutes. To be eaten 
cold. 

Veal Outlet Broiled. 
Season the cutlet with salt and pepper, put in a double 
wire broiler and cook over a quick fire; baste several 
times with a little melted butter, and serve hot. 

Veal Outlet- Pried.' 

Season the cutlet with salt and pepper, and let stand 
a few minutes before frying; then dip in beaten egg and 
then in cracker dust ; fry in hot butter or pork fat ; cook 
slowly until well done. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal Ourry. 

Cut two pounds of lean veal in pieces, put in a pan 
with a piece, of butter, size of an egg, and let it fry to a 
nice brown; then mix in a large tablespoonful of flour, 
a teaspoonf ul of curry powder, salt and pepper ; when all 
are well mixed, add a pint of hot water, and let it boil 
about twenty minutes, skimming off all fat. Eice cro- 
quettes are nice served with this dish. 

Boiled Oalf 's Head. 

Procure one calf 's head, without the skin, water, a little 
salt, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of minced parsley, pepper and salt to .taste, one table- . 
spoonful of lemon juice. After the head has been thor- 
oughly cleaned, and the brains removed, soak it in water 
to blanch it. Lay the brains also in warm water to soak, 
and let them remain for about an hour. Put the head 



VEAL 51 

into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and 
when it boils, add a little salt; take off every particle 
of scum as it rises, and boil the head until perfectly 
tender. Boil the brains, chop them, and mix with them 
melted butter, minced parsley, pepper, salt and lemon 
juice in the above proportion. Take up the head, skin the 
tongue, and put it on a small dish with the brains round 
it. Have ready some parsley and butter, smother the 
head with it, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. 
Bacon, ham, pickled pork, or a pig's cheek are indispensa- 
ble with calf's head! The brains are sometimes chopped 
with hard-boiled eggs, and mixed with a little French 
white sauce. 

Calf's Liver Sausages. 
"Use % pound of fat bacon, one pound of calf's liver, 
% pound of bread crumbs, three eggs, one bay leaf, % 
teaspoonful of thyme, % teaspoonful of grated lemon 
peel, 14 teaspoonful of nutmeg, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of parsley, i^ teaspoonful of pepper. 
Mince the bacon and liver finely, then add the remain- 
ing ingredients and incorporate thoroughly. Beat the 
eggs thoroughly, then moisten the mixture with them and 
encase it in the skins ; fry them with a little butter or lard 
in the pan, to a nice rich brown, pricking the skins with 
a fork to prevent their bursting. Serve on toast or with 
mashed potatoes. 

Broiled Kidneys. 

Split veal kidneys lengthwise, removing all fat, and 
broil over a clear fire for twelve or fifteen minutes ; baste 
with butter while broiling, season with salt, pepper, butter 
and a little chopped parsley. Serve hot. 

Stewed Kidneys. 
Take beef kidney, remove all fat, and wash clean ; put 
in a stewpan, cover with cold water and boil f.or one 



S2 VEAL 

hour. Put y2 a cupful of butter in a frying pan with a 
small onion minced fine ; when frying put in the kidneys, 
turning them over until they are a nice brown ; then add 
a tablespoonful of flour, stir in thoroughly, and add 
enough of the hot stock to make a thick sauce, add % 
a can of mushrooms, season with salt, pepper, a table- 
spoonful of "Worcestershire sauce and a glass of sherry. 
Serve on toast. 

Veal and Ham Fie. 
Tou need two pounds of cutlets^ % pound of boiled 
ham, two tablespoonfuls of minced savory herbs, ^ tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, two blades of pounded mace, 
pepper and salt to taste, a strip of lemon peel finely 
minced, the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, l^ pint of 
water, nearly i/^ pint of good strong gravy, puff-erust. 
Cut the veal into nice square pieces, and put a layer of 
them at the bottom of a pie dish; sprinkle over these a 
portion of the herbs, spices, seasonitig, lemon peel, and 
the yolks of the eggs cut in slices ; cut the ham very thin, 
and put a layer of this in. Proceed in this manner until 
the dish is full, so arranging it that the ham comes at 
the top. Lay a puff-paste on the edge of the dish, and 
pour in about % a pint of water ; cover with crust, orna- 
ment it with leaves, brush it over with the yolk of an 
egg, and bake in a well-heated oven for 1 to 1% hour, or 
longer, should the pie be very large. When it is taken 
out of the oven, pour iii at the top through a funnel nearly 
y2 a pint of strong gravy; this should be made sufficiently 
good that, when cold, it may, cut in a firm jelly. This pie 
hiay be very much enriched by adding a few mushrooms, 
oysters, or sweet-breads ; but it will be found very good 
without any of the last-named additions. 

Fricandeau of Veal. 
Take a piece of the fat side of a leg of veal (about 
three pounds), lardooas (strips of bacon cut for larding), 



VEAL 53 

two carrots, two large onions, one faggot of savory herbs, 
two blades of pounded mace, six whole allspice, two bay- 
leaves, pepper to taste, a few slices of fat bacon, one 
pint of stock. The veal for a fricandeau should be of 
the best quality, or it will not be good. It may be known 
by the meat being white and not thready. Take off the 
skin, flatten the veal on the table, then at one stroke of 
the knife, cut off as much as is required, for a fricandeau 
with an uneven surface never looks well. Trim it, and 
with a sharp knife make two or three slits in the middle, 
that it may taste more of the seasoning. Now lard it 
thickly with fat bacon, as lean gives a red color to the 
fricandeau. Slice the vegetables and put these, with 
the herbs and spices, in the middle of a stewpan, with a 
few slices of bacon at the top ; these should form a sort 
of mound in the centre for the veal to rest upon. Lay 
the fricandeau over the bacon, etc., without touching 
the veal. Let it gradually come to a boil; then put it 
over a slow and equal fire, and let it simmer very gently 
for about 2% hours, or longer should it be very large. 
Baste it frequently with the liquor, and a short time 
before serving, put it into a brisk oven, to make the bacon 
firm, which otherwise would break when it was glazed. 
Dish the fricandeau, keep it hot, skim off the fat from 
the liquor, and reduce it quickly to a glaze, with which 
glaze the fricandeau, and serve with a puree of whatever 
vegetable happens to be in season — spinach, sorrel, 
asparagus, cucumbers, peas, etc. 




Boast Pork. 
Take five or six pounds of, the loin, wash clean and 
dredge with salt and pepper, a little flour, and a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sage; put in a pan with a tea^ 
cupful-of water and roast two hours. 

Pork Tenderloin Broiled. 

Have the butcher either split the tenderloin length- 
wise, or cut crosswise and flatten; put on a wire-broiler- 
,and cook over a clear fire; wlien done put in a pan with 
a lump of butter and let the juice of the meat and the 
butter come to a boil. This makes a delicious sauce; 
season with salt and pepper and serve hot. 

Salt Pork. 
Cut into slices, put in a pan, pour on cold water and 
let come to a boil. This, unless the pork is very salt, 
will freshen sufficiently. Take out the pork, throw the 
water away, roll the pork in flour, and fry to a nice 
brown. Serve with cream gravy. 

Salt Pork No. 2. 

Freshen as above, make a batter of one beaten egg, 
two tablespoonfuls of milk and one of flour, well beaten 
together, put a little fat in the frying pan, dip the pork 
in the batter, fry slowly and serve hot. 

54 



PORK 55 

Salt Pork No. 3. 
Cut the pork in slices and soak for twelve hours in 
equal quantities of milk and water; then fry carefully, 
as it is liable to scorch. When done, take out the meat, 
pour off part of the fat, and into the remainder pour a 
cupful of cream, let it cook two or three minutes, pour 
oyer the pork and serve. 

Pork and Beans. 
Soak two pounds of beans in cold water over night, 
wash thoroughly, put in a pot or jar in which they are 
to be baked, cover with clear stock, put a piece of fresh- 
ened salt pork on top and bake in a moderate oven for 
six hours, add water from time to time as the beans cook 
dry. Another way to bake beans is to soak over night, 
put in the pot next morning with a piece of salt pork 
and boil until done, strain the liquor off the beans, stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of molasses, a teaspoonful of 
mustard, pepper, and salt, if necessary, put in a baking 
pan, with the pork in the middle and bake in the oven for 
thirty or forty minutes.. 

Broiled Sausages. 
Take off the skin and flatten the link to half its 
thickness, put in a wire broiler and broil until done 
over a clear fire, arrange on a platter, put a small lump 
of butter on each piece, put in the oven for a few moments, 
and serve. 

Roast Pig. 
A pig from three to six weeks old is best for roasting. 
Leave the pig whole and wash inside and out, chop the 
liver and mix with equal quantities of bread crumbs 
aiid mashed potatoes, add two chopped onions, a little 
parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, mix into a paste 
with two beaten eggs, a lump of butter and about a tea- 
cupful of milk, stuff the pig with dressing, sew it up, put 



56 PORK 

in a pan and roast from one and a half to two hours, bast- 
ing frequently. Make a dressing with a glass of wine, 
some of the stuiSng, and the drippings. When the pig is 
done, put on a platter, put a lemon or apple in its mouth, 
and serve with the sauce. 

Baked Pork Tenderloin. 

Split the tenderloin through lengthwise ; make a stuff- 
ing of bread, seasoned with salt, pepper and some kind of 
sweet herb, stuff the tenderloin and tie a string around it 
to' keep the filling in, add a cupful of water and bake 
from forty to fifty minutes ; baste frequently. 

Boiled Ham. 

If the ham is quite salt and has been cured some time, 
it will require soaking from ten to twenty-four hours, 
during which the water should be changed several times. 
After the ham has been soaked sufficiently, scrape and 
clean thoroughly, cutting away any part that may be 
rusty or discolored. Put the ham in any vessel suitable 
for boiling it and cover plentifully with water ; let it come 
to a boil very slowly and skim off the scum as it rises. 
When it boils clear, set the pot on the back of the stove 
and let it simmer slowly but steadily until done, then take 
out of the liquor, strip off the skin, dust with cracker or 
bread crumbs and put in the oven and brown. 

Pig's Feet Broiled. 

Pig's feet should be boiled for about six hours. When 
cold, split in two and broil on a wire broiler over a clear 
fire, baste with butter, seam with salt and pepper and 
serve. 

Fried Pig's Feet. 
Boil the pig's feet and when cold split open, dip in 
beaten egg, then in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat and 
serve with tomato sauce. 



PORK 57 

Fried Sausages. 

Prick- the sausages with a fork (this prevents them 
from bursting), and put them into a frying pan with a 
small piece of butter. Keep moving the pan about, and 
turn the sausages three or four times. In from ten to 
twelve minutes they will be sufficiently cooked, unless 
they are very large, when a little more time should be 
allowed. Dish with. or without a piece of toast under 
them, and serve very hot. In some countries, sausages are 
boiled and served on toast. They should be plunged into 
boiling water, and simmered for about ten or twelve min- 
utes. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Have the ham cut in very thin slices, cut off rind and 
any imperfections or discolorations that may be in the 
meat and fry carefully, until done, remove to a platter 
and break the eggs one at a time in a saucer and then slip 
it into the hot fat, being careful not to break the yolk. 
Do not turn the eggs over, but baste the hot grease over 
them, to cook the top; when done, lay around the ham, 
pour on the gravy, and serve. 

Breakfast Bacon. 
Cut choice bacon in thin slices and fry to a crisp. This 
is 'nice to serve with calf's liver, or separately. 

Boiled Bacon. 

As bacon is frequently excessively salt, let it be soaked 
in warm water for an hour or two previous to dressing it ; 
then pare off the rusty parts, ■ and scrape under-side and 
rind as clean as possible. Put into a saucepan of cold 
water, let come gradually to a boil, and as fast as the 
scum rises to the surface of the water, remove it. Let 
simmer very gently until it is thoroughly done ; then take 
up, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over the bacon a 
few bread-raspings, and garnish with tufts of cauliflower 
or Brussels sprouts. When served alone, young and 



58 PORK 

tender broad beans or green peas are usually served. 
Collared Pig's Face. 

Garnish in form of a collar. 

(A breakfast or luncheon dish.) ^ Take one pig's 
face; salt. For brine, one gallon of spring water, one 
pound of common salt, % handful of chopped juniper 
berries, six bruised cloves, two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of 
thyme, basil, sage, i^ ounce of saltpeter. For forcemeat, 
y^ pound of ham, y% pound of bacon, one teaspoonful of 
mixed spices, pepper to taste, y^ pound of lard, one table- 
spoonful of minced parsley, six young onions. Singe the 
head carefully, bone it without breaking the skin, and 
rub it well with salt. Make the brine by boiling the above 
-ingredients for a quarter of an hour, and letting it stand 
to cool. "When cold, pour over the head, and let steep 
in this for ten days, turning and rubbing it often. Then 
wipe, drain and dry. For the forcemeat, pound the ham 
and bacon very finely, and mix with these the remaining 
ingredients, taking care that the whole is thoroughly in- 
corporated. Spread this equally over the-head, roll it tight- 
ly in a cloth, and bind securely with broad tape. Put 
into a saucepan with a few meat trimmings, and cover 
with stock, let simmer gently for four hours, and be par- 
ticular that it does not stop boiling the whole time. When 
quite tender, take up, put between two dishes and place % 
heavy weight on top, and when cold, remove the cloth and 
tape. It should be sent to table on a napkin, or garnished 
with a piece of deep white paper, with a ruche at the top. 

Pork Chops. 
You need a loin or fore-loin of pork, egg and bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper to taste; to every tablespoonful 
of bread crumbs allow 'I/2 teaspoonful of minced sage; 
clarified butter. Cut the cutlets from a loin or fore-loin 
of pork ; trim them the same as mutton cutlets, and scrape 
the top part of the bone. Brush them over with q^^, 



PORK 59 

sprinkle with bread crumbs, with which have been mixed 
minced sage and a seasoning of pepper and salt; drop a 
little clarified butter on them, and press the crumbs well 
down. Put the frying pan on the fire, put in some lard ; 
when this is hot, lay in the cutlets, and fry them a light 
brown on both sides. Take them out, put before the 
fire to dry the greasy moisture from tkera, and dish them 
on mashed potatoes. Serve with them any sauce that may 
be preferred, such as tomato sauce, sauce piquante, or 
pickled gherkins. 

Roast Leg of Pork. 
Take a leg of pork, a little oil, stuffing of sage and 
onions. Choose a small leg of pork, and score the skin 
across in narrow strips, about a quarter of an inch apart. 
Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it with a 
sage and onion stuffing. Brush the joint over with a little 
salad oil (this makes the crackling crisper, and a better 
color), and put it down to a bright, clear fire, not too 
near, as that would cause the skin to blister. Baste it 
well, and serve with a little gravy made in the dripping 
pan, and do not omit to send to the table with it a tureen 
of apple sauce. 

To Bake a Ham. 
Take a ham and a common crust. As a ham for bak- 
ing should be well soaked, let it remain in the water for 
at least twelve hours. Wipe it dry, trim away any rusty 
places underneath, and cover it with a common crust, 
taking care that this is of sufficient thickness all over to 
keep the gravy in. Place it in a moderately-heated oven, 
and bake for nearly four hours. Take off the crust, and 
skin, and cover with raspings, the same as for boiled ham, 
and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. This method 
of cooking ham is, by many persons, considered far su- 
perior to boiling it, as it cuts fuller of gravy and has a 
finer flavor besides keeping good much longer. 



MUTTON & LAMB 




Boast Mutton. 

Wash and wipe dry a nice leg of mutton; with salt, 
pepper and flour, put in the dripping pan with a little 
water. Baste frequently with the drippings. Cook from 
an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. A few veg- 
etables sliced in the pan always improve the flavor of the 
roast. 

Irish Stew, 
Blanch three j)ounds of mutton chops by dipping al- 
ternately in hot and cold water, put in a stewpah and 
barely cover with water; let come to a boil; skim care- 
fully ; season with salt, parsley, mace and a few whole 
peppercorns, boil half an hour ; then add a quart of small 
onions, boil half an hour longer, and add a quart of small 
potatoes ; boil vintil done ; lay the chops around the edge 
of a platter, skim out the potatoes and onions, and put in 
fhe middle ; thicken the gravy with a very little flour and 
pour over the vegetables. Sprinkle over the whole two 
or three tablespoonfuls of fine chopped parsley. 

Braised Leg of Mutton. 

Take one small leg of mutton, four carrots, three 
onions, one faggot of savory herbs, a bunch of parsley, 
seasoning to taste of pepper and salt, a few slices of 
bacon, a few veal trimmings, % pint of gravy or water; 



MUTTON AND LAMB 61 

Line the bottom of a braising pan with a few slices of 
bacon ; put in the carrots, onions, herbs, parsley, and sea- 
soning, and over these place the mutton. Cover the whole 
with a few more slices of bacon and the veal trimmings, 
pour in ihe gravy or water, and stew very gently for four 
hours. Strain the gravy, reduce it to a glaze over a sharp . 
fire, glaze the mutton with it, and send to the table ; place 
on a dish of white haricot beans boiled tender, or gar- 
nished with glazed onions. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 

To insure this joint being tender, let it hang for ten 
days or a fortnight, if the weather permits. Cut off the 
tail and flaps, and trim away every part that ha^ not in- 
disputable pretensions to be eaten, and have the skin- 
taken off and skewered on again. Put it down, to a 
bright, clear fire, and when the joint has been cooking for 
an hour, remove the skin and dredge it with flour. It 
should not be placed too near the fire, as the fat should 
not be in the slightest degree burned, but kept constantly 
basted, both before and after the skin is removed. 
Sprinkle some salt over the joint; make a little gravy in 
the dripping pan; pour it over the meat, which send to 
table with a tureen of made gravy and red currant jelly. 

Haricot of Mutton. 

The breast or shoulder of mutton is generally used for 
a haricot. Put your meat with a lump of butter in a roast- 
ing pan and put in the oven and roast to a nice brown ; 
transfer to a saucepan, cover with stock, and let boil ; cut 
a carrot or nice sweet turnip into regular shaped pieces 
and let them boil with the mutton; also prepare a few 
small onions and put in. the steiw whole; par6 and (Jut 
some potatoes the samfe shape as the other 'vegetables, and 
put in stew ; season with salt and pepper, a little Worces- 



62 MUTTON AND LAMB 

tershire sauce, and a- glass of sherry. This stew should 
have a nice brown color. If the sauce is too thin thicken 
with a little flour. 

Boast Saddle of Lamb. 

This joint is now very much in vogue, and is generally 
considered a nice one for a small party. Have ready a 
clear, brisk fire, and put down the joint at a little dis- 
tance, to prevent the fat from scorching; keep it well 
basted all the time it is cooking. Serve with mint sauce 
and a fresh salad, and send to table with it either peas, 
cauliflowers, or spinach. 

Breast of Mutton Fried. 
Cut a -two-inch square out' of the breast and bqil until 
very tender; lay the pieces on a platter and draw the 
bones out very carefully ; after boning the pieces lay in a 
pan, cover with a plate, put a weight on top, and press 
until cold; cut into squares suitable for serving, dip in 
beaten egg, then in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat, and 
serve with toiiato sauce and string beans. 

Scotch Haggis. 

Take a sheep's pluck and stomach, % pound of 
suet, % pound of oatmea.1, an onion, pepper and salt. 
Have the stomach bag properly cleaned by the butcher, 
wash it well and put it in a saucepan of cold water and 
bring it to a boil, which will make the bag contract. 
Take it out of the water at once, wash and scrape it well 
and lay it in salt and water. "Wash the pluck thoroughly 
and boil it gently for one hour and a half with, the wind- 
pipe hanging put over the edge of the pot that all im- 
purities may escape through it. Take all gristly parts 
from the lungs and heart, and mince the remainder, grate 
the best parts of the liver, chop the suet and onion fine, 
toast the oatmeal in the oven and put all in a basin, with 
a dessertspoonful of salt and rather less than half the 



MUTTON AND LAMB 63 

quantity of pepper. Moisten with half a pint of the 
liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Take the stomach 
bag from the brine, and keeping the smooth side inside, 
fill it with the mixture (not quite full) and sew it up. Put 
the haggis in a pot of boiling water and boil gently for 
three hours, with a plate under to prevent it from stick- 
ing, and prick it now and then with a needle to prevent its 
bursting. • 

Kidneys on Toast. 
Procure two sheep's kidneys, or 1^2 pounds of bullock's 
kidney, one ounce of butter, cayenne, a squeeze of lemon, 
salt, two slices of hot buttered toast. Stew the kidneys 
with a very little water until tender, remove the skin and 
gristle, and pound smooth in a mortar, with the butter, 
lemon juice, salt and cayenne to taste. Spread the mix- 
ture on the toast, which should be buttered on both sides, 
and put in the oven to get hot through. 

Breast of Lamb and Green Peas. 

Remove the skin from a breast of lamb, put it into a 
saucepan of boiling water, and let simmer for five min- 
utes. Take out and lay in cold water. Line the bot- 
tom of a stewpan with a few thin slices of bacon ; lay 
the lamb on these ; peel the lemon, cut it into slices, and 
put these on the meat, to keep it white and make it 
tender ; cover with one or two more slices of bacon ; add a 
pint of stock, onion, and herbs, and set on a slow fire to 
simmer very gently until tender. Have ready some, green 
peas, put these on a dish, and place the ^amb on the top 
of these. The appearance of this dish may be much im- 
proved by glazing the lamb, and spinach may be substi- 
tuted for the peas when variety is desired. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. 
Cut the chops from a tender loin of mutton, remove a 
portion of the fat, and trim chops into a nice shape; 



64 MUTTON AND LAMB 

slightly beat and level them; place the gridiron over a 
bright, clear fire, rub the bars with a little fat, and lay on 
the chops. Turn them frequently while broiling, and in 
about eight minutes they will be done. Season with pep- 
per and salt, dish them on a hot platter, rub a small piece 
of butter on each chop, and serve at once, very hot. 

Lamb Chops Saute with Peas. 
Trim the lamb chops neatly and evenly, place in a fry- 
ing pan with a little butter, season with salt and pepper, 
and fry to a nice brown ; when done arrange on a platter 
alternating each chop with a nicely browned piece of 
toast ; strain the water off a can of French peas, put in a 
pan with a piece of butter, season with salt and pepper, 
stir until hot, and pour in the middle of platter. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

Select a nice leg of mutton, cut off the shank bone, wash 
and put in a pot with a handful of salt, cover with water 
and let it come to a boil, skim until clear ; then set the pot 
o^ the back part of the stove and let boil very slowly un- 
til tender; it will take from two to three hours. Serve 
with caper sauce or drawn butter gravy. 

Mutton Pudding. 

Take a two-quart pudding dish and line it with beef 
suet paste; fill in with mutton cutlets slightly trimmed; 
season with pepper and salt, some parsley, a little thyme 
and two slices of onion chopped fine : between each layer 
of meat place slices of potatoes. When the dish is filled^ 
wet the edges of the paste around the top, and cover with 
a piece of paste rolled out the size of the dish. Fasten 
down the edge by bearing all around with the thumb, and 
then with the thumb and forefinger twist the edges of the 
paste over and over so as to give it a corded appearance. 
Set in a steamer and boil for three hours. Turn out on a 
platter and serve with a rich gravy. 



MUTTON AND LAMB 65 

Mutton a la Venison. 
Take a leg of mutton, make deep slits in the meat, into 
which insert strips of salt pork that have previously been 
rolled in pepper and cloves ; bake two hours, or according 
to the size of the roast, basting frequently. Take from 
the oven, and about an hour before serving, spread cur- 
rant jelly over it, return to the oven and let brown. 

Scrambled Mutton. 

Take three cupfuls of cold mutton chopped fine, three 
tablespoonfuls of hot water, and piece of butter size of an 
egg; place on stove, and when hot, break in three eggs, 
and constantly stir until the eggs begin to stiffen. Salt 
and pepper to taste, and serve hot. 

Scalloped Mutton. 
Place layer of bread crumbs over bottom of earthen 
baking-dish, and over this alternate layers of cold roast 
mutton cut in thin slices, together with ripe tomatoes 
peeled and sliced ; season each layer with salt, pepper and 
bits of butter. Top layer should be of tomatoes, spread 
over with bread crumbs. Bake % hour and serve at once. 

Muttonettes. 
Cut slices about one inch thick from leg of mutton. 
On each slice lay spoonful of stufiSng made with bread 
crumbs, beaten egg, butter, salt, pepper, sage and sum- 
mer savory. Roll up slices and pin with little skewers to 
keep in the stuifing. Put a little butter and water in 
bakingpan, place in the rolled slices and bake in hot oven 
three quarters of an hour, basting often. When done 
thicken the gravy, pour over the meat, garnish with pars- 
ley, and serve on hot platter. 




Christmas Roast Turkey. 

Select fat ■ young turkey. "When clean and drawn) 
wash thoroughly inside and out and dry with clean cloth. 

For a nine or ten pound turkey, soak 1^^ loaves of bak- 
er's white bread in luke-warm water. Drain quite dry 
and thoroughly work into it, one teaspoonful of salt, % 
teaspoonful of black pepper, two teaspoonfuls of pow- 
dered sage, % teacupful of celery chopped fine, two me- 
dium sized onion's also chopped fine, and a lump of butter 
size of an egg. Eub a little salt over the entire inside 
•surface and let stand from t^/enty to thirty minutes. 
Then fill Math the dressing and sew up the openings. 
Sprinkle over outside surface, about one teaspoonful of 
salt and cover with thin slices of salt pork. 

It is better to dress turkey day before baking, letting 
it stand on platter over night. Fill pan half full of water 
and bake in slow oven about three hours. If double, or 
savory^ pan is not used, baste every fifteen minutes with 
the liquor. Cut the giblets into small pieces and boil till 
tender; salt to taste. When the turkey is removed from 



POULTRY 67 

pan, skim off all but a little of the fat from the liquor in 
the pan, add the giblets and liquor they were cooked in 
and thicken all with a heaping tablespoonful of flour 
creamed into a half to three-quarter's cup of sweet milk. 
Boil all together till of proper consistency for gravy and 
salt and pepper to taste. For oyster dressing omit the 
onions and sage and substitute one quart of solid bulk 
oysters. 

Turkey Stuffed with Oysters. 
Select a nice plump turkey, draw and wash thoroughly. 
Prepare stuffing in the following manner : Take a pint of 
oysters, put in a pan and stew in their own liquor, drain 
off the liquor and cut the oysters into bits, add half a cup 
of butter, a shredded onion and a spoonful of powdered 
thyme; let all simmer together; moisten three pints of 
stale bread crumbs with the oyster liquor, add the oysters 
and onion, break in three eggs, season with salt and pep- 
per, and mix all thoroughly together; if the stuffing is 
too dry, add some milk; if otherwise, add more bread 
crumbs ; stuff the turkey, sew up the openings, take some 
butter in the hand and rub over the outside, dredge with 
salt, pepper and flour, put in a pan with a pint of water, 
place in the oven and wash. No time can be given, as so 
much depends upon the age, size and condition of the 
fowl. A large turkey a year old will take as much as 
three and a half, four, or even five hours of slow roasting ; 
while a younger and smaller one may not require .more 
than half that time. Baste every ten or fifteen minutes. 

.Stuffed Turkey, Giblet Sauce. 
Stuff a turkey with the following dressing : Take stale 
bread and cut in pieces, rub fine vnth your hands the soft 
part; what you cannot rub fine put in a pan and pour 
boiling water over it, just enough to soften, not soak, 
cover closely until steamed, put with the crumbs, mix 



68 POULTRY 

thoroughly with plenty of butter, pepper and salt, and a 
little sage or chopped onion to suit taste. "While the tur- 
key is roasting boil the gizzard of the turkey well done, 
put the liver and heart in hot water for a few rainutes, 
then fry brown in a little butter ; when this is done chop 
all together very fine, and set aside for use. When the 
turkey is done, put on a platter and set in a warm place, 
skim all the fat. off the gravy in which the turkey was 
roasted, add the chopped giblets, thicken with a little 
chopped parsley just before serving. 

Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts. 
Put three dozen chestnuts in a pan, and bake in the 
oven ; as the skin begins to crack take them out, skin and 
chop fine ; put in a frying pan with a piece of butter, half 
an onion cut fine, and fry to a nice brown ; put in a glass 
of port wine; mix enough soaked bread with the chest- 
nuts to make the amount of stuffing wanted; season with 
salt, add pepper, a little thyme ; mix in four eggs and 
stuff the turkey. Roast as above. 

New England Roast Turkey. 
Take nine or ten pound turkey. Make stuffing of bread. 
Season with salt, pepper, sufficient butter and % grated 
onion. When mixed lay into turkey loosely. Sprinkle 
over the top a little $our. Then put in moderately heated 
oven and baste frequently. 

Chicken Fricassee. 
Cut nice fat chicken into joints, wash, and put in a pot, 
cover with cold water and let come to a boil; skim care- 
fully as long as any scum rises: boil until well done, 
season with salt and pepper ; cook two-thirds of a cup of 
flour in half a cup of butter, stir this into the chicken 
stock, leaving in the chicken, stir carefully to. avoid break- 
ing the chicken, toast slices of bread, cut in squares, put 
on a platter, pour the chicken, sauce and all, over it and 
serve. 



POULTRY 69 

Boast Chicken. 
Chicken can be prepared for roasting the same as 
turkey and any stuffings or dressings that are nice for 
turkey will also answer for chicken. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Cut a young chicken into joints, wash, and put in a fry- 
ing pan, with half a cup of butter and the same measure 
of water ; season with salt and cover closely ; let cook un- 
til the water boils dry, let the chicken fry brown on both 
sides, take out and lay on a platter, put a tablespoonful 
of flour in the frying pan, cook till slightly brown, then 
add to it a cupful of milk or water, stir smooth. This will 
make a delicious brown gravy, pour over the chicken, set 
in the oven for a moment and serve. 

Broiled Chicken. 
Only young chickens- are suitable for broiling. Draw 
the chicken and split it down the back, wash clean, lay it 
on the board and break down the breast bone by pressing 
with the rolling pin, put on a double wire broiler, season 
with salt and broil over a clear fire, presenting the inside 
to the fire first. Baste with melted butter while broiling, 
and serve as soon as done. 

Chicken Fie. 
Cut up two chickens and boil, putting on just enough 
water to cover them, and season with salt and pepper, 
skim carefully; when tender, rub two tablespoonfuls of 
flour in half a cup of butter and add this to the stew. 
Line an earthen pan with a rich crust, put in the chicken, 
gravy and all, cover with crust, pinching down the sides, 
cut an opening in the center for the steam to escape, and 
bake one hour. 

Chicken Pot Pie. 
Pcepare chicken as for pie, but have more gravy, put in 
the crust (see directions for making) and boil twenty 



10 POULTRY 

minutes ; when done place the chicken in the middle of a 
platter, place the crust around it, pour some of the gravy 
over all, and serve the rest in a gravy boat. 

Pressed Chicken. 
Boil nice plump chickens until tender; take off the 
skin, and pick the meat off the bones; pick the meat up 
fine (do not chop) season with salt and pepper, and add 
a head of celery, cut fine ; mix all well together. Boil the 
liquor in which the chicken was cooked down to less than 
a quart, add a lump of butter the size of an egg, half a 
box of gelatine, salt and pepper to taste; pour over the 
chicken, mix all together, put in an earthen dish, cover 
with a plate, put a weight on top and set away. When 
cold, cut in slices, and garnish with parsley. 

Boiled Fowl and Bice. 

Take one fowl, mutton broth, two onions, two small 
blades of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, % pint of 
rice, parsley and butter. Truss the fowl as'for boiling, and 
put it into a stewpan with sufficient clear, well-skimmed 
mutton broth to cover it ; add the onion, mace, and a sea- 
soning of pepper and salt; stew very gently for about one 
hour, should the fowl be large, and about half an hour 
before it is ready put in the rice, which should be well 
washed ahd soaked. "When the latter is tender, strain it 
from the liquor, and put it on a sieve reversed to dry be- 
fore the fire, and in the meantime, keep the fowl hot. 
Dish it, put the rice round as a border, pour a little 
parsley and butter over the fowl, and send the remainder 
to the table in a tureen. 

Chicken Pattietj. 

Take -the remains of cold roast chicken or fowl; to 

every % pound of meat allow two ounces of ham, three 

tablespoonfuls of cream, two tablespoonfuls of veal 

gravy, Yz teaspoonfid of minced lemon peel, cayenne, salt 



POULTRY 71 

and pepper to taste, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one 
ounce of butter rolled in flour; puflE paste» Mince very 
small the white meat from a cold roast fowl, after remov- 
ing all the skin ; weigh it, and to every quarter of a pound 
of meat allow the above proportion of minced ham. Put 
these into a stewpan with the remaining ingredients, stir 
over the fire for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, tak- 
ing care that the mixture does not burn. Roll out some 
puff paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness; line 
the patty pans with this, put upon each a small piece of 
bread, and cover with another layer of paste ; brush over 
-swith the yolk of an egg, and bake in a brisk oven for 
about a quarter of an hour. "When done, cut a round 
piece out of the top, and with a small spoon, take out the 
bread (be particular to not break the outside border of 
the crust) , and fill the patties with the mixture. 

Stewed Chicken Fried — (Delicious). 

Take a nice plump chicken, joint and place in kettle 
with sufficient water, season to taste, and cook until 
tender. Then remove the meat, dredge with flour and fry 
a delicate brown in pan, with small quantity of butter or 
lard, then add some of the broth, enough to make gravy 
and let simmer a few moments. This makes an old or 
tough chicken almost equal to a fried spring chicken. 

Boast Pigeons. 
Clean and stuff the birds, and pack in rows in a drip- 
ping pan, dredge witb salt and pepper, and a little flour, 
spread over them with a knife, half a teacup of butter, and 
pour in the pan a teacupful of water, put in a brisk oven 
and baste often. No definite time can be given for roast- 
ing. Young plump birds wiU roast in from one-half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Quail on Toast. 
Pick and clean the quail, split' down the back, season 
with salt and pepper and baste with melted butter while 



72 POULTEY 

broiling over a clear fire ; it takes from twelve to eighteen 
minutes to -broil quail. Have ready as many slices of 
nicely buttered toast as you have birds, place a bird on 
each slice and serve at once. 

Quail on Toast No. 2. 

Clean, singe, and draw the quail ; wash well, and put in- 
side the bird three oysters and a lump of butter the size' 
of a small hickofy nut, put in a dripping pan and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and spread a little butter on each 
one, put in a hot oven and roast for ten or twelve minutes. 
Toast as many slices of bread as you have quails, and slip 
a slice under each one, baste with butter and the gravy 
formed by the roasting birds, put back in the oven and- 
roast five minutes longer, and serve hot. If the toast is 
liable to break up, use a tin shovel in removing the quail 
from the dripping pan "to the platter. This is a most de- 
licious way to cook small birds of any kind. 

Minnie's Prize Chicken Fie. 

Select a large fo'^l, cover with boiling water, so as to 
have plenty of liquor for the gravy. Seasbn with salt 
and pepper, a few bits of butter over it. 

Put enough flour to thicken the liquor — about two 
tablespoonfuls into a bowl. Add a cup of rich milk, the 
beaten yolk of an egg, a lump of butter. Stir into the 
boiling liquor, pour over the chicken enough to cover it. 
Reserve enough gravy for the absorbing of the pie as it 
takes up a certain portion. 

Get pudding pan with large surface so as to lay dump- 
lings a little way apart, and as it bakes and absorbs keep 
filling in the gravy kept out for that purpose. 

To make the dumplings, sift one pint of flour with a 
teaspoonf ul of baking powder, add a pinch of salt, a 
piece of lard size of a walnut, rub together. Mix with 
buttermilk to which has been added a pinch of soda; 



POULTRY 73 

knead lightly, roll to i/^ inch thickness ; cut into diamond 
shapes; lay over the chicken, bake in a hot oven until 
nicely brown, then serve. Very fine, none better. 

Roast Duck. 
Clean and prepare duck as usual. For dressing take 
% loaf of stale bread and pour boiling water over it 
and drain water off thoroughly; then use one stalk of 
celery and chop fine ; also liver of duck and chop up fine ; 
one tablespoonful of butter, two eggs, salt and pepper 
to season, and stir well together; stuff duck and roast 
for 1^4: hour. Four-pound duck. 

RoEist Duck No. 2. 
Roast duck as directed for chicken. A nice stuffing for 
duck is made of mashed potatoes, seasoned with salt, a 
lump of butter, and a chopped onion. 

Roast Goose. 
Parl^oil the goose in salt and water for half an hour, fill 
with stuffing, and roast as you would chicken. 

Stewed Duck and Peas. 

Needed : The remains of cold roast duck, two ounces of 
butter, three or four slices of lean ham or bacon, one 
tablespoonful of flour, two pints of thin gravy, a small 
bunch of green onions, three sprigs of parsley, three 
cloves, one pint of young green peas, cayenne and salt to 
taste, one teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Put the butter 
into a stewpan; cut up the duck into joints, lay them in 
with the slices of lean ham or bacon ; make it brown, then 
dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, and stir this well in be- 
fore adding the gravy. Put in the onion, parsley, cloves 
and gravy, and when it has simmered for a quarter of an 
hour, add a pint of young green peas, and stew gently for 
about half an hour. Season with cayenne, salt and sugar ; 
take out the duck, place it round the dish, and the peas 
in the middle. 



U POULTRY 

Fowl a La Marengo. 

Needed : One large fowl, four tablespoonfuls of salad 
oil, one tablespoonful of flour, one pint of regular gtock, 
or water, about twenty mushroom-buttons, salt and pep- 
per to taste, one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a very 
small piece of garlic. Cut the fowl into eight or ten 
pieces ; put them with the oil into the stewpan, and brown 
them over a moderate fire; dredge in the above propor^ 
tion of flour; when that is browned, pour in the stock or 
water ; let it simmer very slowly for rather more than half 
an hour, and skim off the fat as it rises to the top ; add the 
mushrooms; season with salt, pepper, garlic and sugar; 
take out the fowl, and arrange in a pyramid on the dish, 
with the inferior joints at the bottom. Reduce the sauce 
by boiling it quickly over the fire, keeping it stirred 
until sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of a spoon; 
pour over the fowl, and serve. 

Curried Chicken, 

Take the remains of cold roast fowls, two large on- 
ions, one apple, two ounces of butter, one dessert spoonr 
ful of curry powder, one teaspoonful of flour, l^ pint of 
gravy, one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Slice the onions, 
peel, core and chop the apple, and cut the fowl into neat 
joints; fry these in the butter, to a nice brown ; then add 
the curry powder, flour and gravy, and stew for about 
twenty minutes. Put in the lemon juice and serve with 
boiled rice, either placed in a ridge around the dish or 
separately ; two or three shalots, or a little garlic may be 
added, if approved. 

Roast Partridge. 

When the bird is firmly and plumply trussed, roast it 
before a nice bright fire ; keep it well basted, and a few 
minutes before serviiig, flour it well. Dish it, and serve 



GAME 75 

with gravy and bread sauce, and send to table hot and 
quickly. A little of the gravy should be poured over the 
bird. 



Roast Rabbit. 

Dress and clean the rabbit thoroughly, and soak in salt 
and water. Put in a dripping pan and dredge with salt, 
pepper and a little flour. Cut salt pork in thin strips and 
fasten on the rabbit with toothpicks, spread some butter 
over all, put a little water in the pan and roast in the 
oven until done, basting often. You can make a stuiiRng 
as for chicken, fill the rabbit, and then roast as above, if 
you choose. 

Fried Rabbit. 

Dress and clean the rabbit and cut up in pieces suitable 
to serve, let it stand in salt and water until white, put in 
a kettle and boil until tender, take out of the liquor and 
let it stand until it stops steaming. Have the frying pan 
half full of hot drippings or lard, dip the rabbit in beaten 
egg, then in crackei" dust and fry in the hot fat ; serve at 
once. 

Stewed Rabbit. 

Take one rabbit, two large onions, six cloves, one small 
teaspoonful of chopped lemon peel, a few forcemeat balls, 
thickening of butter and flour, one large tablespoonful of 
mushroom ketchup. Cut the rabbit into small joints ; put 
them into a stewpan, add the onions sliced, the cloves, and 
minced lemon peel. Pour in sufiicient water to cover the 
meat, and when the rabbit is nearly done, drop in a few 
forcemeat balls, to which the liver has been added, finely 
chopped. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, put 
In the ketchup, give one boil, and serve. 



7e GAME 

"Hasen-Pfeffer." 

(Pickled Spiced Hare.) 

Carefully skin and draw the hare and remove the head. 
Wash as little as possible because it takes away the aijii- 
mal's gamey flavor, but wipe the pieces carefully with a 
dry towel. Disjoint and cut, in pieces same as for fricassee. 
Season with salt, four or five whole cloves, whole peppers, 
a small dash of cayenne, two or three each of laurel and 
bay leaves, two or three splints of cinnamon bark and then 
immerse all in cider vinegar to which two or three slices 
of lemon have been added. Let the meat remain in the 
vinegar for three days. When ready to prepare for the 
table, have deep saucepan ready with two tablespoons of 
butter, to which add four sliced onions. Let the latter 
brown nicely to almost a crisp. Drain off the spiced 
vinegar from the meat and add to the onions. Pour in 
half pint good claret ' or Burgundy wine if desired. 
Thicken with rolled toasted cracker-dust, or floury and 
then place the pieces of meat, well dredged in flour, in the 
pot and allow to cook and simmer slowly for one hour. 
If liquor be too thick add a little more wine diluted with 
water in the proportion of 1/3 of the- latter. Serve hot 
with light dumplings. This dish can be made in larger 
quantities and potted in earthen crocks, well covered, for 
future use. The potted Hasen-Pfeffer has only to be made 
hot in order to use. 

Boast Venison. 

Either the saddle or leg are fine for roasting. Have 
your market man lard the venison for you, then put in 
the dripping pan with half a pint of water and good sized 
luftip of buttery dredge with salt and pepper and roast in 
a hot oven from two to three hours, basting every ten or 
fifteen minutes. 



GAME 77 

Broiled Venison. 

Put the venison steaks in the double wire broiler and 
broil over a clear fire. When done place on a hot platter, 
season with salt and pepper and pour over it some hot 
butter, turn it over and put on more of the butter, and 
serve at once. 

Jugged Hare. 

Take one hare, 1^^ pounds of gravy beef, y^ pound of 
butter, one onion, one lemon, six cloves, pepper, cayenne, 
and salt to taste, % pint of port, good turkey stuffing. 
Skin, paunch (rip) and wash the hare, cut it into pieces, 
dredge them with flour, and fry in boiling butter. Have 
ready l^/^ pints of gravy, made from the above proportion 
of beef, and thickened with a little flour. Put this into a 
jar ; add the pieces of fried hare, an oiiion stuck with six 
cloves, a lemon peeled and cut in half, and a good season- 
ing of pepper, cayenne and salt; cover the jar down 
tightly, put it up to the neck in a stewpan of boiling 
water, and let it stew until the hare is quite tender. 
When nearly done, pour in the wine, and add a few stuff- 
ing balls ; these must be fried or baked in the oven for a 
few minutes before they are put in the gravy. Serve 
with red currant jelly. 

Larded Grouse. 

Clean and wash the grouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Put a small skewer into the legs and through the tail. 
Tie firmly with twine. Dredge with salt, and rub the 
breast with soft butter; then dredge thickly with flour. 
Put into a quick oven. If to be very rare, cook twenty 
minutes; if wished better done, thirty minutes. When 
done, place on a hot dish on which bread sauce has been 
spread. Sprinkle fried crumbs over both grouse and 
sauce. Garnish with parsley. The grouse may, instead, 
6e served on a hot di@b, with the parsley garnish, and the 



78 GAME 

sauce and crumbs served in separate dishes. The first 
method is the better, however, as one has in the sauce all 
the gravy that comes from the birds. 

Grand Pacific Game Pie. 
Take about two dozen of woodcock, quail, snipe, or 
other small birds. Split each one in half and put them 
into a saucepan containing about a. gallon of cold water, 
although beef broth or soup stock would be preferable. 
See that the fire is hot, and when the boiling point has 
been reached, carefully skim off all the scum from the 
surface, and put in for seasoning a little -pepper and salt 
with mace, ground cloves and one bay leaf, adding half a 
pound slice of salt pork cut into squares, two small ear- 
rots and one onion. Boil until tender, being careful that 
there is enough broth to cover the game. Into another 
saucepan put four ounces of butter and two tablespoon- 
fuls browned flour, mixing well and stirrifig- into it a part - 
of the broth or gravy so as to make a thin sauce. Strain 
off what broth remains in the first saucepan, removing 
therefrom the vegetables and spices to go with the sauce. 
Slice, and cut into dice shape, potatoes equal in quantity 
to the meat, and put in a deep baking dish; put on the 
top crust of dough and bake in an oven that is not too hot. 
If a separate pie is desired for each person the baking 
may be done in small vegetable dishes. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Clean and truss three or four pigeons, rub the outside 
with a mixture of pepper and salt ; rub the inside witbr a 
bit of butter, and fill it with a bread-and-butter stuffing, 
or mashed potatoes ; sew up the slit, butter the sides of a 
tin basin or pudding-dish, and line (the sides only) with 
pie paste, rolled to quarter of an inch thickness, lay the 
birds in; for three large tame pigeons, cut quarter of a 
pound of sweet butter and put it over them, strew over a 



POULTRY AND GAME 79 

large teaspoonful of salt and a small teaspoonful of pep- 
per, with a bunch of finely-cut parsley, if liked ; dredge a 
large teaspoonful of wheat flour; put in water to nearly 
fill the pie j lay the skewers across the top, cover with a 
puff paste crust; cut a slit in the middle, ornament the 
edge with leaves, hraids, or shells of paste, and put in a 
moderately hot or quick oven for one hour; when nearly 
done, brush the top with the yolk of an egg beaten with 
a little milk, and finish. The pigeons for this pie may be 
cut in two or more pieces, if preferred. 

Any small birds may be used in this manner. 

A Brine for Beef, Bacon, Ham and Venison. 

For each onie hundred pounds of meat, use six pounds 
of salt, six pounds of sugar, and.four ounces of saltpeter. 
Dissolve all in enough water to cover the meat. Sprinkle 
a little salt over the bottom of the cask before packing 
the meat. Be sure the brine covers the meat for six weeks. 
Smoke the ham and bacon, and if kept in hot weather 
sew in sacks and whitewash. 

ChickGn Loaf. 

Boil chicken in as little water as possible, until meat 
will drop from the bones; cut up with knife and fork; 
put back in kettle with plenty of butter, pepper and salt ; 
heat thoroughly. Boil an egg hard, slice and place in 
bottom of a dish ; pour chicken in hot ; place a weight upon 
it, and put away to cool; when cold it will come out in 
form. 




Chili Con Carne — (Mexican). 

(Pronounced che-le kon kar ne — chili with meat.) 
(Spelled chili, chile, chilli, chilly.). 
Take three medium-sized chilis (the pod of Guinea 
pepper — or red peppers) dried or fresh, and toast lightly 
in the oven ; soak in water a few minutes, then pound in 
a mortar to a wet pulp; strain in a colander, to remove 
bits of skin ; add a cooked tomato, a tablespoonful of vin- 
egar, a little salt and black pepper. Place in a frying pan 
with sufficient butter and fry. Then add a pound of beef- 
steak or .other meat, cut into small cubes, together with a 
half -pint of boiling water. Let simmer until the meat is 
tender and the sauce of a prpper consistency. Serve hot. 
Cooked rice or" beans may be added instead of the tomato, 
if preferred. * 

Boiled New England Dinner. 

Take a piece of salt pork and another of corned beef, the 
size depending on the number of persons to be served; 
about three pounds of each will be sufficient for a family 
of six. Wash the meat and put on fire in separate kettles, 
boiling slowly for an hour; take the meat out and pour 
the liquor from one kettle into the other ; put fresh water 
into the emp'ty kettle, put in both pieces of meat and boil 
for two hours longer. Skim nearly all the fat off the 

80 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 81 

liquor in which the meat was first boiled, taste it and if 
too salt to boil vegetables in, pour of£ some and add fresh 
water. Cut in quarters a small cabbage, one large or two 
small turnips, three or four carrots and peel six or eight 
potatoes, and boil all together in the liquor. In winter, 
all the vegetables except the potatoes, will require from 
one and three-quarters to two, hours' boiling, in summer 
about one hour will do ; potatoes will boil done in thirty 
or forty minutes. If you wish to add beets to the dinner, 
they must be boiled in a separate vessel. When the din- 
ner is done, put the beef and pork on the same platter; 
drain the vegetables in a colander and put on the table in 
covered vegetable dishes. Serve the dinner hot. Pre- 
pared mustard and grated horseradish are indispensable 
to a boiled dinner. 

Spanish Stew. 

Take a five or six-pound chicken and prepare two large 
onions and cut up fine, and let cook until tender; then 
put in a quart can of tomatoes and six good-sized po- 
tatoes cut up in fourths; when almost done add one can 
of mushrooms and thicken with flour, % cup; then add 
one can of French peas, % teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per and salt to season. 

Tripe. 

Tripe can be cut in squares and boiled over a quick fire, 
seasoning with butter, salt and pepper ; or it can be boiled 
tender and then fried in butter, seasoning with salt and 
pepper. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Grate or slice one pound American cheese (mild), put 
one teaspoonful butter in chafing dish, after it melts put 
in cheese ; stir while melting and add four or five table- 
spoonfuls of ale or beer slowly. Cook six minutes, add 
mustard and "Worcestershire sauce. If desired, one egg 
can ba added just before it is done. Serve on toast. 



82 MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Welsh Rarebit— No. 2. 

One pound chopped American cheese ; % glass of stale 
ale; yolk of one egg; one teaspoonful dry mustard; one 
teaspoonful "Worcestershire sauce; one teaspoonful but- 
ter; a dash of red pepper; a dash or two of black pep- 
per; a few drops of Tobasco sauce. If cheese is fresh, 
salt above. Into the chafing dish put a few small lumps 
of butter. After it has simmered a bit, put in the cheese. 
Stir constantly and gradually add the ale. Whe^i cheese 
and ale are well blended, stir in the above condiments 
to the yolk of the egg broken into a cup; add the dry 
mustard and "Worcestershire sauce ; red and dark pepper 
and tobasco sauce ; let it have one more heating and pour 
over toast or toasted biscuit. 

Potted Meats. 
Take nice lean meat, beef or veal is the best; cut in 
small squares, put in a kettle, cover with water, add a 
little salt and boil until tender. "When done take out the 
meat and put in an earthen jar or stone dish. Season the 
stock with salt and pepper, a small lump of butter, a stick 
of cinnamon and a dozen peppercorns; add half a box 
gelatine dissolved in a little cold water ; boil twenty or 
thirty minutes, strain, and pour over the meat, mix thor- 
oughly, cover with a plate, put on a weight and set away. 
"When cold cut in slices, garnish with parsley or celery, 
and serve. This is very nice for luncheon or tea. 

Broiled Sweet Breads. 
Trim and wash the sweet breads and broil on a wire 
broiler over a clear fire; baste with butter and season 
with salt and pepper; serve hot. 

Sweet Breads No. 2. 

After trimming and washing the sweet brea'ds, put in 
a stew pan, cover with water, add a pinch of salt and boil 
until done. Then take up and set aside until they stop 



MISCELLANEOUS. DISHES 83 

steaming, then split, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs and fry in equal parts of butter and fat. Serve 
hot. Tomato sauce is a nice addition. 

Calf's Liver. 
Cut the liver in slices, season with salt and pepper, dip 
in flour and fry in equal parts of butter and drippiags. 
When nicely browned, lay on a platter ; put a spoonful of 
flour in the frying pan and brown in the fat in which the 
liver was fried ; add a teacupful of water, stir smooth and 
pour over the liver. 

Mock Duck. 
Take a round of beefsteak, season with salt and pepper ; 
prepare a dressing as for turkey, spread over the steak, 
roll and sew "it up; fasten three or four slices of fat pork 
on the roll with toothpicks; put in the oven and roast. 
Baste often. This dish is hard to distinguish from duck. 

, Pot Pie. 

Take lean veal, beef, chicken, or any meat suitable for 
pot pie and cut up in pieces of a size suitable to serve. 
Wash, cover with cold water, and boil until tender. Skim 
when it first begins to boil.. When done season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. About twenty miuutes before serv- 
ing, add the crust. 

Crust for Pot Pie. 
Take four and one-half eupfuls of flour and add to it 
two even teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, and two even tea- . 
spoonfuls of soda and one teaspoonful of salt. Sift twice, 
then rub in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix 
with two scant eupfuls of buttermilk, work into dough 
with as little handling as possible, roll out and cut as you 
would biscuit; put into the kettle and boil for twenty 
minutes. 



84 MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Boiled Rice. 

Take deep saucepan with close-fitting cover. Wash the 
rice ia cold water as many times as may be necessary to 
; leave the water in the last washing perfectly clear and not 
at all clouded. Cover the rice with cold water to about 
two inches above the grains. Boil under steady fire not 
too hot, keeping kettle closely covered. Let all the water 
boil away until rice is merely moist ; then set the vessel" at 
back of stove to steam' and dry thoroughly, when the rice 
will be found tender and the grains separated from each 
other. . ...J'i-U 

Crust for Raised Pies. 

(For all Pies with Jelly.) Boil lard, good and fine, in 
water; add as much excellent dripping as there is lard; 
there must not be much of eifher. "When still hot,' mix it 
with flour, quantity depending upon number of pies. 
Make the paste stiff and smooth by kneading, and also 
by beating it with a rolling-pin. "When perfectly smooth, 
put a ball of it by in a cloth till cold, then use. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Chop cold, lean ham very fijie ; cut bread in thin slices 
and spread with butter; put on a layer of the chopped 
ham, season with prepared mustard, cover with another 
slice of bread. 

Oyster Sandwiches. 
Pound the oysters with lemon juice and cayenne, lay 
them between, the slices of bread and butter and cut into 
small neat sandwiches, which arrange on a silver plate, 
one over the other in a ring, like cutlets. 

Favorite Curried Chestnuts. 
Take one pound of chestnuts, one ounce of butter, .% 
pint of milk and water, one teaspoonful of curry pow- 
der, one dessertspoonful of flour, boiled rice. Put the 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 85 

chestnuts on the fire in cold water and bring to boil, let 
boil for ten minutes, then remove the skins and the 
brown. Melt the butter in saucepan, stir in the flour and 
curry powder, then the milk ; let boil up and thicken, then 
put in the chestnuts. Stew very gently for an hour. Just 
before serving, add pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. 
Serve in wall of bojled rice. 

Larding. 

All dry meats such as venison, a leg of veal, fillet of 
beef, grouse, partridge, etc., are much improved by lard- 
ing. To some housekeepers this has a formidable sound, 
but it is nothing more or less than drawing strips of fat 
pork through the surface of the moat. For this a larding 
needle is a convenience, but very good work can be done 
with a small, sharp knife. For a fillet of beef, cut fat 
salt pork in strips half an inch square by three or four 
inches long, and put a row on each side ; take the stitches 
about half an inch deep and leave about half an inch of 
pork exposed at each end. A leg of veal can be larded 
much the same way, or game, sweetbreads, etc. The strips 
must be only one-quarter the size they are for beef, veal, 
or venison. 

Nudeln. 

(German Macaroni.) , 
Take four eggs, flour, milk, two ounces of butter, 
grated rusk. "With four eggs and four dessertspoonfuls 
of milk, mix sufficient finest flour to make a paste ; knead 
on a paste board, constantly shp ig flour over it, until it 
becomes a stiff dough. Cut into four pieces, roll out as 
thin as paper, and throw over a pole to dry. When dried 
half an hour, cut each piece again in four, lay the pieces 
upon each other, roll up and cut into strips the width of 
turn into a drainer, and pour boiling water quickly over 
them. Serve up either with brown butter, or sauce made 



86 MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

with milk, salt and two ounces of fresh butter, and cover 
a blade of grass, and shake them apart. They are then 
ready for use, but can be kept for several weeks. "When 
required, boil tender in plenty of boiling water with salt, 
over with grated rusk, or a portion of the nudeln fried in 
butter until it has become crisp and brown. Nudeln are 
eaten with roast veal, or fowl, or ham, or as a sweet with 
stewed prunes or apple compote. 

A-1 Corn Beef Hash. 

Take a nice piece of corned beef, about four pounds. 
Wash, put into cold water, boil slowly — rapid boiling 
hardens meat — ^until tender, remove from kettle, let get 
cold. Have some potatoes that have been boiled with the 
skins on, let get cold, remove skins. Take one part meat 
to 1% parts potato, a good sized onion, put into the hash 
bowl chopped to the size of a pea, salt and pepper to 
taste; put a, lump of butter the size of an egg into a fry- 
ing pan-; let melt, then put the mixture into the pan, 
cover tightly for a few minutes, remove cover and brown 
nicely. 

Fried Bananas. 

Cut the bananas in slices and ifiour each, fry a light 
brown in a frying pan; serve with fried bread, or with 
poached eggs, as bacon and eggs are served. 

Hash. 

Take any kind of meat, corned beef is considered the 
best, and chop very fine ; measure with a cup, and to every 
cup of chopped meat add one of chopped potato ; mix well 
together, and season with salt, pepper and a lump of but- 
ter ; put in a frying pan, pour on enough water to moisten 
it ; cook for ten or fiften minutes, stirring often, then set 
in the oven and brown. 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 87 

Apples and Rice. 

Needed : Bight good-sized apples, three ounces of but- 
ter, the rind of ^^ a lemon minced very fine, six ounces of 
rice, iy2 pint of milk, sugar to taste, i^ teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, 6 tablespoonfuls of apricot jam. Peel the 
apples, halve them and take out the cores ; put them into 
a stewpan with the butter, and strew sufficient sifted 
sugar over to sweeten them nicely, and add the minced 
lemon peel. Stew the apples very gently until tender, 
taking care they do not break. Boil the rice, with the 
milk, sugar and nutmeg, until soft, and, when thoroughly 
done, dish it, piled high in the center ; arrange the apples 
on it, warm the apricot jam, pour it over the whole, and 
serve hot. 

Apple Fritters. 
Needed for the batter, i/^ pound of flour, % oimce of 
butter, Yz saltspoonful of salt, two eggs, milk, apples, hot 
lard or clarified beef dripping. Break the eggs; separate 
the whites from the yolks, and beat them separately. 
Put the flour into a basin, stir in the butter, which should 
be melted to a cream ; add the salt, and moisten with suffi- 
cient warm milk to make it of a proper consistency, that 
is to say, a batter that will drop from the spoon. Stir this 
well, rub down any lumps' that may be seen, and add the 
whites of the eggs, which should have been previously 
well whisked; beat up the batter for a few minutes, and 
it is ready for use. Now peel and cut the apples into 
rather thick whole slices, without dividing them, and 
stamp out the middle of each slice, where the core is, with 
the cutter. Throw the slices into the batter-; have ready 
a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping; take out the 
pieces of apple one by one, put them into the hot lard, 
and fry a nice brown, turning them when required. When 
done, lay them on a piece of blotting paper before the fire, 
^9 absorb the greasjr moisture j then dish on a white 



88 MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

d'oyley, piled one above the other; strew over them some 
pounded sugar, and serve very hot. The flavor of the 
fritters would be very much improved by soaking the 
pieces of apple in a little wine, mixed- with sugar and 
lemon juice, for three or four hours before wanted for 
table ; the batter, also, is better for being mixed some 
hours before the fritters are made. 

Eggplant Ragout. 

Take two fully ripe, medium-sized eggplants and cut in 
cubes 1% inches square as near as possible. Cover with 
salt for two hours; drain and wash thoroughly in cold 
water. Have ready one pound lean fresh pork and % 
pound of smoked bacon. Cut both meats into dice-shape 
and have a stewpaii well heated. Place the bacon in the 
pan until it begins to sizzle ; then add the pork and let the 
latter get somewhat browned. Slice two good-sized onions 
and add them to the pork and bacon. Take one teacup of 
good beef stock and as soon as all begins to boil, put in 
the eggplant. Season with whole, peppers and a table- 
spoon of "Worcestershire sauce. Make a thickening of 1% 
tablespoons of flour ; peel of %^ lemon, and one pint of boil- 
ing water. Boil quickly for twenty minutes and let sim- 
mer' for ten minutes longer, when the ragout will be 
ready to serve. A delicious addition for cold meats of 
any kind. 

Rissoles. 

Make a »ice puff paste, and roll out thin ; have some 
meat chopped very fine, and sprinkle on half of the paste ; 
cover with the other half and press together with the roll- 
ing pin; cut in squares, or you can use a biscuit cutter, 
and fry in hot lard to a light brown. 

Almond Paste. 

Ingredients : One pound sweet almonds, % pound loaf 
sugar, gelatine flavoring. Blanche the almonds by put- 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 89 

ting into boiling water ; soak for four hours in cold water 
and pound well in a mortar, adding a few drops of water 
to take oflf the oiliness. When beaten to a paste, put in 
three-quarters of a pound of well-crushed loaf sugar, and 
mix all together. "When quite fine and smooth, put it into 
a stewpan over a slow fire, and stir with a wooden spoon 
till it is white and dry. Put it again in the mortar, and 
mix with it a little melted and strained gelatine. Keep 
covered. Use any flavoring preferred. Cover with a 
damp towel, or it will dry up. 

Trout (or Other Fish) in Jelly. 

This is a beautiful supper dish, and may be arranged as 
follows: Turn the fish into rings, with tail in mouth, 
prepare a seasoned water in which to boil the trout; the 
water should have a" little vinegar and salt in it, and may 
be flavored with a shalot or clove or garlic. When the 
water is cold, place the trout in it, and boil, them very 
gently, so as not to mash or break them. When done, lift 
out and drain. Baste with fish jelly, for which a recipe 
is given elsewhere, coat after coat, as each coat hardens. 
Arrange neatly, and serve. 

, Minnie's Layer Cake. 
One cupful sugar, ^/^ cup milk, two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, two teaspoonf uls baking powder, large cup 
flour. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One and one-half eupfuls sugar, Yz cup butter, % cup 
sweet milk, two cups flour, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. White of one egg, teacup sugar, % cup 
cocoanut sprinkled between layers, and frosting on top 
and sides. Delicious if properly prepared. 



S^UCES-GR^yiES 




Chili Sauce. 

Take twelve ripe tomatoes, one large pepper and two 
onions ; chop all very fine, and put in a granite or porce- 
lain kettle ; add two cups of vinegar, one of brown sugar, 
one tablespoonful of salt and one teaspoonful each of nut- 
meg, allspice, cloves and ginger. Boil for one hour. 
This sauce can be canned, and kept for months. It is very 
nice to serve with roast beef or pork or broiled steak. 

Chile Sauce, No. 2. 

Nine ripe tomatoes, scald, peel and chop with one pep- 
per, two onions, one tablespoonful salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, one teaspoonful ginger, one of cloves, one of 
allspice, one of cinnamon, one of nutmeg, two cupfuls 
of vinegar; cook 14 hour and bottle hot. 

Chili Sauce, No.3. 
To twenty-four tomatoes, take eight onions, four table- 
spoonfuls salt, four tablespoonfuls -cinnamon, four tea- 
spoonfuls cloves, twelve green peppers (four or five will 
do), eight tablespoonfuls sugar, four teaspoonfuls ginger, 
eight teaspoonfuls vinegar. Boil three hours. Spices 
ground, tomatoes peeled and chopped with peppers and 
onions. 

m 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES 91 

Chile Sauce, No. 4. 

One bushel of tomatoes, ten large onions, twelve green 
peppers, six cupfuls of sugar, six tablespoonfuls of salt, 
five tablespoonfuls of cloves, five of cinnamon, four of 
ginger, four nutmegs grated, a little allspice, five pints 
of vinegar. Boil' two hours; bottle hot. 

Mint Sauce. 
Heat a teacupful of vinegar boiling hot ; put four table- 
spoonfuls of chopped green mint in a bowl, add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and pour over them the hot vin- 
egar. This sauce is better iXrhen made about an hour be- 
fore using. Serve with roast lamb. 

Curry Sauce. 
Take a lump of butter the size of an egg, put in a sauce 
pan with a small onion minced fine. Cook until the onion 
is fried to a nice brown ; then add a tablespoonf ul of flour 
and a teaspoonful of curry powder ; mix well, then add a 
pint of good stock, and stir until smooth ; season with salt 
and pepper, strain, and serve. This sauce is nice with 
broiled or fried meat or fish. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 
Put half a teacup of butter in a sauce pan, and when 
melted, add two tablespoonfuls of flour; cook, but not 
brovm; then add a pint of water, and stir until smooth; 
season with salt and pepper. This sauce is a nice addition 
to boiled or baked fish, mashed potatoes, etc. 

Mustard Sauce. 
Make a drawn butter sauce, and add to it two table- 
spoonfuls of prepared mustard and a little cayenne pep- 
per. This sauce goes with broiled smoked fish of any kind 
and with boiled salt codfish. 



92 SAUCES AND GRAVIES 

Tomato Sauce. 

Put in a sauce pan half a cup of butter or meat drip- 
pings and slice into it an onion, a carrot, a very small tur- 
nip and a small slice of ham; add a bay leaf and a few 
whole peppers ; let all brown or braise together ; then pour 
over the whole a pint of water and let it boil for ten min- 
utes. Strain and add to the stock a can of tomatoes and 
a tablespoonful of sugar ; let all boil together for thirty or 
forty minutes; stirring frequently to prevent scorching, 
then strain and press through a sieve. This sauce is 
served with almost all kinds of meat and fish. 

Cream Sauce. 

Put a teacupful of butter in a sauce pan and when 
melted, stir in a small teacupful of flour, cook but do not 
brown ; then add a little less than a quart of boiling milk, 
and stir until smooth ; season with salt and white pepper. 
If at all lumpy strain before serving. 

Maitre D 'Hotel Sauce. 
Take half a teacupful of butter, put in a bowl, and rub 
to a cream; then add a teaspoonful of salt, half as much 
pepper, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley' and the 
juice of a lemon; mix all thoroughly together. Heat 
three cupfuls of white stock ; when boiling stir in two well 
beaten eggs; this will form a thin custard; last of all add 
the butter and other ingredients, and boil for three min- 
utes, stirriiag all the time. Serve at once. The butter 
with its seasoning, but without the stock and eggs, is used 
on fried meats and fish instead of butter, and is much 
relished by some. 

Allemande, or White Sauce. 

Put in a sauce pan a cupful of butter, a sliced onion, 
and a carrot ; when the butter is melted, add a cupful of 
flour and stir smooth, then pour in two quarts of boiling 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES 93 

white stock and let it boil slowly for one hour; season 
with salt and white pepper and- strain. Beat the yolks of 
two eggs with the juice of a lemon, stir into the sauce and 
keep hot for use. From this sauce the following sauces 
can be made. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Chop one-half of a bunch of parsley very fine, squeeze 
dry through a napkin and stir it into a quart of allemande 
sauce and serve. 

Chicken Curry. 

(East Indian Style.) 
Take a dry-picked young chicken from three to 3% 
pounds ; wash thoroughly ; cut up in pieces, dividing at all 
joints. Roll the pieces in flour seasoned with salt only, to 
be ready for cooking. Have an eight quart saucepan 
well heated. Take two ounces butter in which fry four 
medium sized sliced onions until the latter are well 
browned, almost to a crisp. Mix two tablespoons curry 
powder into a paste with Yz wineglassful of tamarind wa- 
ter and place same in saucepan with the browned onions. 
Stir well and fry the pieces of chicken in the pot, after 
which add from four to six teacupfuls of soup stock of 
either beef, veal or mutton, to which has been added i/^ 
teaeupful of cocoa and nutmeg. Bring to a boil and then let 
slowly simmer for twenty minutes. Served with boiled 
rice. This can be thickened with a little flour and water. 

Caper Sauce. 
Mix in a quart of allemande sauce a cupful of capers. 
This sauce is nice with boiled mutton. 

"Egg Sauce. 

Cut up fine four hard boiled eggs, squeeze the juice of 
a lemon over them, and stir into one quart of white sauce. 
This sauce is particularly nice with broiled trout. 



94 SAUCES AND GEAVIES 

Cardinal Sauce. 

Pound the shells of two lobsters very fine, and add some 
of the coral, also pounded fine, put in a sauce pan with 
half a cup of butter, let it cook for twenty or twenty-five 
minutes, then add a quart jof allemande sauce, the juice 
of a lemon, and a glass of sherry; simmer together for 
two or three minutes, strain and serve. This sauce is nice 
with broiled or baked fish. 

Bombay (East India) Curry Powder. 

Take four ounces saffron, four ounces coriander seed, 
two ounces turmeric, two ounces cinnamon seed, % ounce 
seed of dried long red, peppers, 14 ounce cayenne pepper, 
two ounces fenngreck seed, % ounce mace, % ounce all- 
spice, one ounce ground ginger, 14, ounce cardamom seed, 
% ounce cumin seed, ^4 ounce carroway seed, two ounces 
thoroughly dried desiccated coeoanut. Keep in a vessel 
covered with mosquito netting and in a moderately warm 
place overnight. Pulverize in a mortar or grind through 
a spice mill. Place in sealed wide-mouthed bottles. Must 
be kept tightly corked after using. 

Normandy Sauce. 

Chop one-half of a can of mushrooms, two shalots, one 
dozen oysters, and six shrimps; let these articles simmer 
in a cupful of butter for ten .minutes, then add a quart 
of allemande sauce, season with a glass of sherry and 
serve. 

Anchovy Sauce. 
To a quart of allemande sauce add one-half of a bottle 
of anchovy sauce, mix well, and serve. 

Old Zealand Sauce. 
Put in a sauce pan a scant half cup of butter, one 
teacupful of good vinegar, and half a cupfi^il of water, let 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES 91> 

them come to a boil, and then stir in two well-beaten eggs, 
stir until it creams ; if too thick add a little water ; season 
with salt and white pepper. This sauce is excellent' with 
boiled cod fish, either salt or fresh. 

Truffle Sauce. 
Slice an onion, a carrot, half of a small turnip and a 
medium sized potato and braise in a sauce pan with half a 
cupful of drippings. When the vegetables are a nice 
brown, add a tablespoonful of flour and let that brown 
also, then add a quart of meat stock, and let it simmer 
for an hour or more, straia and season with the juice of a 
lemon, a glass of wine, a little Worcestershire sauce, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Chop your muffins and mix in 
this prepared sauce. 

Jelly Sauce for Game. 

Put in a sauce pan a glass of Madeira wine and halt 

cupful of jelly, let it dissolve, then add one pint of dark 

sauce, as per receipt fo* truffle sauce ; let it come to a boil 

and serve. This is fine for all kinds of game and poultry. 

Celery Sauce. 

Cut up fine two stalks of fine celery, leaves and all, and 
boil in a sauce pan for ten or fifteen minutes, drain off the 
water and put in the sauce pan with the celery a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, and a tablespoonful of flour; 
cook, but do not brown, then add a pint of milk and season 
with salt and pepper, stir until smooth and serve hot. 

Horseradish Sauce. 
(To serve with roast beef.) 
Ingredients: Four tablespoonfuls of grated horserad- 
ish, one teaspoonful of pounded sugar, one teaspoonful of 
salt, % teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of made 
mustard, vinegar. Grate the horseradish, and mix it well 
with the sugar, salt, pepper and mustard ; moisten it with 



96 SAUCES AND GRAVIES 

sufficient vinegar to give it the eonsisteney of cream, and 
serve in a tureen; three or four tablespoonfuls of cream 
added to the above, very much improves the appearance 
and flavor of this sauce. To heat it to serve with hot roast 
beef, put it in a bain marie, or a jar, vrhich place in a 
saucepan of boiling water; heat it, but do not allow to 
boil, or it will curdle. 

Note. — This sauce is a great improvement on the old 
fashioned way of serving cold scraped horseradish with 
hot roast beef. The mixing of the cold vinegar with the 
warm gravy cools and spoils everything on the plate. Of 
course, with cold meat, the sauce should be served cold. 

Oyster Sauce. 
Chop a dozen oysters fine and boil in their own liquor, 
skim and then add a pint of white sauce, season with salt- 
and pepper, and the juice of a lemon. 

A Good Sauce for Steaks, 

Take one ounce of whole black pepper, half ounce of 
allspice, one ounce of salt, % ounce of grated horseradish, 
% ounce of pickled shalots, one pint of mushroom ketchup 
or walnut pickle. 

Pound all the ingredients finely in a mortar, and put 
them into the ketchup or walnut liquor. Let them stand 
for a fortnight, when strain off the liquor and bottle for 
use. Either pour a little of the sauce over the steaks, or 
mix it in the gravy. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

Take one can of mushrooms, strain off the liquor, cut 
the mushrooms in slices, and put in a sauce pan, with a 
lump of butter and a large tablespoonful of flour, let all 
cook together, but brown very slightly, if at all. Squeeze 
in the juice of a lemon, add a tablespoonful of Worcester^ 
shire /sauce, and a pint of water or stock, stir all smooth, 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES 97 

season with salt and a little cayenne pepper and serve hot. 
This sauce accompanies roast beef and veal, and also 
steak. 

"HoUandaise" Sauce. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs with the juice of a lemon, 
and a half cupful of soft butter, stir this into a quart of 
hot allemande sauce, and keep stirring until the egg cooks ; 
this will give the sauce a nice creamy appearance. This 
sauce can be poured over meat or fish just before it is 
served. 

Currant Sauce for Meats. 
Five pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, one 
tablespoonful cloves, pepper and allspice and cinnamon, 
% spoonful of salt, one pint of vinegar ; boil fast % hour. 

French White Sauce. 
Take one small bunch of parsley, two cloves, i^ a bay 
leaf, one small faggot of savory herbs, salt to taste, three 
or four mushrooms, when obtainable; two pints of white 
stock, one pint of cream, one tablespoonful of arrowroot. 
Put the stock into a stewpan with the parsley, cloves, 
bay leaf, herbs and mushrooms; add a seasoning of salt, 
but no ground pepper, as that would give the sauce a 
dusky appearance. A small quantity of wine, or any 
liquor, would very much improve the flavor of this sauce. 
It is usually served with bread, rice, custard, or any dry 
pudding that is not very rich. 

Olive Sauce. 

Use ^ pound of French olives, I/2 pint of stock, one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. Carefully stone the olives by 
paring them round in ribbons so that they may recover 
their shape when stoned. Blanch them in boiling water, 
and throw them into cold water for five minutes, and stew 
slowly for half an hour in the gravy. Add the lemon 
and serve. 



98 SAUCES AND GEAVIES 

Oyster Cocktail Sauce. 
One teaspoonful "Worcestershire, one tablespoonful cat- 
sup, four drops tobaseo, six oysters. 

Kidney Sauce. 
Take two kidneys, one tablespoonful of flour, pepper 
and salt, Yz teaspoonful of each, one tablespoonful of 
stock, % glassful of claret. Skin and mince the kidneys 
into fine dice, shake the flour well over them, place all the 
other ingredients in a stewpan, and let it boil gently for 
five minutes. Place the stewpan at the side of the fire, add 
the kidneys, and stew all gently for ten minutes, being 
careful not to let it boil. Pour over roast fowl, or place in 
a seperate tureen and serve. 

Epicurean Sauce. 

(For Steaks, Chops, Gravies or Fish) 
Take % pint each of walnut and mushroom ketchup, 
two tablespoonfuls of port, % ounce of white pepper, 
two ounces of shalots, % ounce of cayenne, % ounce of 
cloves, % pint of vinegar. Put the whole of the ingredi-- 
ents into a bottle, and let it remain for a fortnight in a 
warm place, occasionally shaking up the contents. Strain, 
and bottle off for use. • This sauce will be found an agree-, 
able addition to gravies, hashes, stews, etc. 

Asparagus Sauce. 
Take one bunch of green asparagus, salt, one ounce 
of fresh butter, one small bunch of- parsley, three or four 
green onions, one large lump of .sugar, four tablespoonfuls 
of white stock. Break the asparagus in the tender part, 
wash well, and put into boiling salt and water to render 
them green. "When tender, take out, and put into cold 
water; drain on a cloth till all the moisture is absorbed. 
Put the butter in a stewpan with the parsley and onions ; 
lay in the asparagus, and fry the whole over a brisk fire 
for five minutes. Add salt, the sugar and white stock, and 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES 99 

simmer for another five minutes. Rub all through a 
tammy, and if not of proper color, use a little spinach 
green. This sauce should be rather sweet. Suitable for 
garnish. 

Apple Sauce. 

(Serve with Goose, Pork, etc.) 
Take six good sized apples, sifted sugar to taste, a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, water. Pare, core and 
quarter the apples, and throw them into cold water to 
preserve their whiteness. Put them in a saucepan, with 
sufficient water to moisten them, and boil till soft enough 
to pulp. Beat them up, adding sugar to taste, and a small 
piece of butter. This quantity is sufficient for a good sized 
tureen. 

Bread Sauce. 
(To' Serve with Roast Turkey, Fowl, Game, etc.) 
Use one pint of milk, % pound of the crumb of a stale 
loaf, one onion, pounded mace, cayenne and salt to taste, 
one ounce of butter. Peel and quarter the onion, and 
simmer it in the milk till perfectly tender. Break the 
bread, which should be stale, into small pieces, carefully 
picking out any hard outside pieces ; put it in a very clean 
saucepan, strain the milk over it, cover it up, and let it 
remain for an hour to soak. Now beat it up with a fork 
very smoothly, add a seasoning of pounded mace, cayenne 
and salt, with one ounce of butter ; give the whole one boil, 
and serve. To enrich this sauce, a small quantity of cream 
may be added just before sending it to the table. 

Melted Butter. 
Take two ounces of butter, one dessertspoonful of flour, 
salt to taste, 14 piJit of water. Mix the flour and water to 
a smooth batter, which put into a sauce pan. Add the 
flour and a seasoning of salt, keep stirring one way till 
all the ingredients are melted and perfectly smooth; let 
the whole boil for a minute or two, and serve. 



100 SAtJCES AND GRAVIES 

Tartare Sauce. 

■^se yolks of four eggs, one teaspoonful of mustard, Yz 
teaspoonful of salt, olive oil, tarragon vinegar, pepper, 
cayenne, two shalots, or two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
pickled onions and gherkins. Break the yolks into a basin 
with the salt and mustard, then stir in a tablespoonful of 
olive oil, and then a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar alter- 
nately until the sauce is of the right consistency. This 
must be done very gradually. Then add the chopped sha- 
lot or pickles. 

A Cheap Gravy for Hashes, etc. 
Take bones and trimimngs of the cooked joint intended 
for hashing, ^^ teaspoonful of salt, i/4 teaspoonful of whole 
pepper, ^4 teaspoonful of whole allspice, a small faggot 
of savory herbs, % head of celery, one onion, one ounce 
of butter, flour, sufficient water to cover the bones. Chop 
the bones in small pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with 
the trimmings, salt, pepper,,spice, herbs and celery. Cover 
with boiling water, and let the whole boil for two or three 
hours. Slice and fry the onion in the butter till it is of a 
pale brown, and mix in flour in the proportion of one 
dessertspoonful to half a pint of gravy; add the gravy 
made from the bones; boil for a quarter of an hour and 
flavor with lemon peel, anchovy sauce, walnut pickle or 
ketchup, pickled-onion liquor, or any store sauce that may 
be preferred. Strain, and the gravy will be ready for use. 
A bacon bone or rind is an improvement. 

A Good Beef Gravy for Poultry, Game, etc. 

Procure ^ pound of lean beef, pint of cold water, one 
shalot or small onion, i/^ a teaspoonful of salt, a little pep- 
per, one tablespoonful of store sauce or mushroom ketchup^ 
a teaspoonful of arrowroot. Cut up the beef into small 
pieces, and put it, with the water, into a stewpan. Add 
the shalot and seasoning, and simmer gently. for three 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES 101 

hours, taking care that it does not boil fast. A short time 
before it is required, take the arrowroot, and having mixed 
it with a little cold water, pour it into the gravy, which 
keep stirring, adding the sauce, and just letting it boil. 
Strain off the gravy in a tureen, and serve very hot. 



Poivrade Sauce. 

Take six ounces of ham, one ounce of butter, one clove 
of garlic, one bay leaf, one sprig of sweet basil, one of 
thyme, two cloves, four young onionSj i/^ pint of con- 
somme ; one ounce of celery, one pinch of pepper and cay- 
enne (where liked) ; three sprays of parsley, wineglassful 
of tarragon vinegar. Cut the ham into small pieces, and 
fry it in the butter, with the parsley, onions, garlic, bay 
leaf, basil, thyme and cloves. When well fried over a 
quick fire, add the cayenne, sliced celery and pepper, vine- 
gar and consomme ; let all simmer gently half an hour. 
Strain through a tammy and serve. 



Robert Sauce. 

(For Steaks, etc.) 

Take eight ounces of butter, three onions, one tea- 
spoonful of flour, four tablespoonfuls of gravy, salt and 
pepper to taste, one teaspoonful of made mustard, one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar, the juice of y^ lemon. Put the but- 
ter into stewpan, set it on the fire, and, when browning, 
throw in the onions, which must be cut into small slices. 
Pry them brovra, but do not burn them; add the flour, 
shake the onion in it, and give the whole another fry. Put 
in the gravy and seasoning, and boil it gently for ten min- 
utes; skim off the fat, add the mustard, vinegar and 
lemon juice ; give it one boil, and pour round the steaks, 
or whatever dish the sauce has been prepared for. 



102 SAUCES AND GEAVIBS 

Cranberry Sauce^ 

Place one quart of cranberries in graniteware saucepan 
in layers, topping each layer with sugar, using one pound 
of sugar in all. Add one cup of cold water and cook until 
tender without stirring. Serve hot or cold. 

If the cranberries are carefully picked over and washed, 
.the skins improve the sauce. For making a jelly, strain 
and put in molds to cool. 

APPEOPBIATE SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEATS. 

Roast Beef Grated Horseradish. 

Boiled Mutton Tomato Catsup. 

Roast Mutton "Worcestershire Sauce. 

Roast Lamb Caper Sauce. 

Roast Pork Stewed Gooseberry. 

Roast Turkey Mint Sauce. 

Roast Chicken. . .' Apple Sauce. 

Boiled Turkey Cranberry Sauce. 

Roasted Venison or Duck. Celery Sauce. 

Pigeon Pie '. . Plum or Grape Catsup. 

Broiled Steak Currant Jelly. 

Roast Goose ^ Oyster Sauce. 

Broiled Mackerel. . . .*,;V . .Black Currant Jelly. 

Fried Salmon Mushroom Sauce. 

Boiled or Baked Pish .... Mushrooms or Fried Onion, 
Boiled or Baked Cod Stewed Gooseberries. 

Apple Sauce. Stewed Tomato. Egg Sauce. 

Egg Sauce. Old Zealand Sauce. Tomato Sauce. 
Cream Sauce. Drawn Butter Sauce. White Cream Sauce. 



SALADS 




Tomato Salad. 
Take one quart of best tomatoes, and drain in colander ; 
cut the tomatoes quite fine, and add a finely minced onion, 
a level teaspoonful of salt and half as much pepper, a 
heaping tablespoonful of sugar and one of vinegar. Mix 
well together, and serve. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad. 
Clean and wash the lettuce, place in a bowl nned with a 
napkin, so as to absorb all the moisture, and put in the 
ice box. Skin the number of tomatoes needed, and put on 
ice. When ready to serve, dress the lettuce with vinegar, 
oil (or melted butter), salt and pepper. Arrange the 
lettuce in the salad bowl, quarter, or slice the tomatoes, 
and arrange in the middle of the bowl, and spread ovet 
them a Mayonnaise dressing, and serve. 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad No. 2. 
Clean and wash the lettuce, shake, to free from exces- 
sive moisture, and place on ice. Skin the number of toma- 
toes required, and place on ice. When ready to serve, put 

103 



104 SALADS 

three or four crisp lettuce leaves in each individual salad 
dish; place in the middle of each one a tomato cut in 
quarters; put on each tomato a spoonful of French or 
Mayonnaise dressing, and serve. 

Cold Slaw. 
Put a tablespoonful of melted butter in a stewpan, and 
add to it a teaspoonful of flour; mix, and then put in a 
teacupful of vinegar. Beat an egg, and add to it a tea- 
spoonful each of mustard, sugar, salt, and a half teaspoon- 
ful of pepper; beat all together, and stir in the boiling 
vinegar ; boil one minute, and pour over sliced or chopped 
cabbage. 

Cold Slaw No. 2. 

Slice cabbage very fine, and season with salt, pepper and 
sugar to taste. Pour vinegar over all, and mix thoroughly. 
This is a nice relish with raw or cooked oysters. 

Cabbage Salad No. 1. 

Chop half of a medium sized head of cabbage very fine ; 
add four teagpoonfuls of celery seed, or one head of celery 
cut fine. Beat in a bowl the yolk^ of two eggs, and add a 
teaspoonful each of sugar, butter, pepper, made mustard, 
and add two-thirds of a cupful of vinegar ; set the bowl in 
hot water and stir until it thickens ; set aside, and when 
cold, pour over the cabbage, and mix well. 

Cabbage Salad No. 2. 

Take two quarts of finely chopped cabbage, and season 
with two level teaspoonfuls of 'salt, two of white sugar, 
one of black pepper, one of ground mustard ; rub the yolks 
of four hard boiled eggs until smooth ; add half a cupful 
of butter slightly warmed ; mix thoroughly with the cab- 
bage ; then add a teacupful of good cider vinegar. Serve 
with whites of eggs, sliced and placed on the §ala,d. 



SALADS 105 

Cabbage Salad No. 3. 

One medium sized head of cabbage chopped fine ; pepper 
and salt to taste. For a dressing beat the yolks of two 
eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and beat 
again; then add a teacupful of thick sour cream, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and half a cupful of vinegar, and 
beat for three minutes ; pour on the cabbage, and mix. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Take one quart of shrimps, break in small pieces, one 
large stalk of celery, chopped small, one small head of 
lettuce torn in fine pieces, a half of a green pepper, 
chopped fine ; two or three hard boiled eggs sliced over the 
top. Garnish with lettuce. Cover with a good Mayon- 
naise dressing. The flowers or green seeds of Nasturtium 
torn up, if obtainable, make a very good addition to the 
salad. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Needed: One large or two small cucumbers, % tea- 
spoonful of pepper and salt mixed, one tablespoonful of 
best French vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of pure salad 
oil. Peel and slice the cucumber as finely as possible, 
sprinkle the pepper and salt over it ; add vinegar and salt 
in the above proportions a moment before using. 

Bean Salad. 

String young beans, cut into inch lengths and boil in 
salt and water until tender,, drain well, and to a quart of 
beans, add a chopped onion ; take three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, two of salad oil, or melted butter, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Beat the vinegar and oil together, add the 
seasoning, and pour over the beans and onions ; mix well, 
and set away for an hour or tw:o before using. 

Asparagus Salad. 
Drain the asparagus after taking it from the can, or if 
fresh, boil until tender in salted water, and dress like 
string bean §aladt 



106 SALADS 

Vegetable Salad. 

Take a variety of vegetables in season (the roots cut 
into dice, pease or beans whole), French beans cut into 
dice, one raw egg, % a teacupful of oil, one tablespooiiful 
of vinegar, pepper and salt. Boil each vegetable sepa- 
rately, drain, and put all together into a salad bowl, add 
% a teaspoonful of finely minced onion, and dress with 
mayonnaise made thus : Break a raw yolk of egg into a 
basin, stir it one way with waoden spoon, adding the oil 
drop by drop. Stir in the vinegar and the seasoning, and 
it is ready to serve. 

Potato Salad. 
Cut in half inch cubes two quarts of cold potatoes, a 
large Spanish onion, two heads of celery, and four hard 
boiled eggs ; season with salt, pepper, and a little- cayenne. 
Piit in a stewpan a lump of butter the size of an egg ; and 
when melted, add a tablespoonful of flour; cook, but do 
not brown; then add a cupful of milk or water. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs with a tablespoonful of sugar and a tea- 
spoonful of mustard ; add two-thirds of a cupful of vine- 
gar, and stir all in with the sauce in the stewpan ; let it 
come to boil, stirring all the time, and set away to cool. 
When cold, pour over the rest of the salad, mix well, and 
serve. 

Potato Salad No. 2. 
Slice cold boiled potatoes thin, and mince an onion fine. 
Alternate layers of potatoes and onion, season each layer 
with salt, pepper, melted butter and a little vinegar. Let 
stand an hour or two before serving. 

Potato Salad, No. 3. 
(Inexpensive and quickly made.) 
Boil six medium-sized potatoes, then cut dice shape, 
chop fine good sized onion and three hard boiled eggs, 



SALADS 107 

add a few slices of cucumbers if desir§d ; then pour over 
the salad dressing made as follows : Take two eggs, one 
tablespoonful dry mustard (mixed with a little water), 
y^ teaspoon salt, a piece of butter the size of egg (melted) 
and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and one tablespoon- 
ful sugar. Beat the eggs well, then add the mustard, 
salt and sugar. Beat a little more and then add the 
melted butter and vinegar. Set the bowl over boiling 
water and stir constantly until thick and smooth. Set 
away to cool, and to make exceptionally fine add cup of 
whipped cream to the dressing after it is cold; if not 
convenient, or already prepared, use plain cream or half 
milk and half cream. 

Potato Salad, No. 4. 
Cut boiled potatoes into good sized dice and add celery 
and onions to taste and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Dressing for Potato Salad. 
Yolks of two eggs well beaten, stir into these one scant 
dessertspoonful of dry mustard, one tablespoonful of su- 
gar, y^ teaspoonful of salt, red pepper to taste. Stir well 
together and add 2/3 cupful of butter in a solid piece. 
Set over kettle, stirring continually until boiling hot 
and thickened. When boiling, add the well beaten whites 
of the two eggs and remove from the fire. Allow it to 
cool, and mix with salad just before serving. 

Fruit Salad. 

One half cup pineapple, cut into small pieces; % cup 
orange ; % cup banana, cut into small pieces ; % cup ap- 
ple, cut into small pieces; y^ cup white grapes, cut in 
halves ; i^ cup strawberries, cut in quarters ; % cup Mar- 
aschino cherries, cut into quarters. 

Dressing: y^ cup olive oil; two tablespoonfuls lemon 
juice ; % cup Maraschino wine ; one tablespoonful sugar. 



108 SALADS 

Process: Have all ingredients and mixing bowl ice 
cold. They may be measured and set on ice until serving 
time. Mix the ingredients of the dressing and beat until 
an emulsion is formed (milky or oily appearance). Pour 
over the fruit arranged on crisp lettuce leaves. To make 
lettuce leaves crisp, let them stand in ice cold water for 
twenty minutes. Then shake off water carefully and place 
■ between folds of napkin or towel and lay on ice until ready 
to serve. After fruit is arranged on lettuce leaves, place 
a spoonful of whipped cream and a whole Maraschino 
cherry on each. 

Salmon Salad. 

Procure two heads of nice crisp lettuce and wash each 
leaf seperately, shaking to free from moisture. Arrange 
the lettuce on a round or oval dish about two inches deep, 
the darker leaves next the outside and the lighter ones 
in the middle. Take a can of best salmon, or its equiva- 
lent in fresh cooked salmon; with a fork pick in small 
flakes and place in the middle of the dish on the lettuce. 
Season the salmon with salt and a little cayenne, and pour 
over it a tablespoonful of vinegar and the juice of a lemon ; 
then set aside in the ice box for an hour or two. When 
ready to serve, pour a teacupful of mayonnaise dressing 
over the fish ; sprinkle a few capers on top, and serve. 

Lobster Salad. 

A delicious lobster salad can be made by following the 
above rule and substituting lobster for salmon. A nice 
way to arrange the lettuce, is in the form of shells on in- 
dividual salad dishes and putting a spoonful of lobster in 
each one; then proceed with the dressing as you would 
in the larger dish. 

Sardine Salad. 

Take two boxes of best sardines and arrange on a 
platter. For dressing take the yolk of four hard boiled 



SALADS 109 

eggs, put m a bowl and rub to a paste ; add a tablespoonful 
of prepared mustard, three of vinegar, a teaspoonful of 
sugar and a little cayenne. Mix well together and pour 
over the sardines. Garnish with sliced lemon. 

Egg Salad. 
Boil a dozen eggs for twenty-five minutes, slice and 
cover with a Mayonnaise dressing, or not, as preferred; 
garnish with lettuce leaves, capers, and olives. 

Chicken Salad. 
Boil three chickens until tender, salting to taste ; when 
cold, pick fine with the fingers, and add three heads of 
celery, cut fine with a knife (not chopped), and six hard 
boiled eggs sliced; mix 'tL together thoroughly. For 
dressing, put in a sauce pan a pint of vinegar and a lump 
of butter the size of an egg; beat three eggs with two 
tablespoonfuls of made mustard, two of sugar, salt and 
pepper to taste ; let the vinegar come to a boil ; then stir in 
slowly the beaten egg mixture, stirring until it thickens, 
but do not let it curdle^ which it will do, if boiled too long. 
Set aside to cool. Do not add the dressing to the chicken 
and other ingredients, until just before serving. 

Chicken Salad No. 2. 
For a pair of boiled fowls allow three heads of celery. 
Take all the skin from the chickens, pick dark meat from 
the bones, chop it fine, and put in with the cut celery; 
cut the white meat in half inch cubes and add to the other-, 
boil the livers and sift them, and put in a bowl rubbed 
with a bit of onion ; add the yolks of five hard boiled eggs 
rubbed to a paste, four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, or 
melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of prepared mustard, 
one of sugar, a heaping teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne 
pepper, a level teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, and a 
teaspoonful each of vinegar and thick cream. Beat well 
together, and pour over, and mix well with the chickeo 
just before serving. 



110 SALADS 

Chicken Salad No. 3. 
A simple way to prepare a good chicken salad, is to re- 
move the skin from a couple of boiled chickens, and cut 
the meat fine with a knife; cut up two or three heads of 
celery and add to the chicken ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a little cayenne ; pour over the whole a cold Mayon- 
naise dressing, mix, and serve. 

Chicken Salad, No. 4. 
Two chickens boiled till done, picked fine, as much 
again celery as chickens, cut Sue, three eggs beaten, four 
tablespoonfuls mustard, a little hot watet and let it cool, 
nine tablespoonfuls butter, vinfegar to taste, a little salt, 
then stir in the eggs and put in a basin in hot water and 
cook until smooth. 

Tongue Salad. 
Boil, skin and trim a tongue, cut in dice, and add the 
whites of six hard boiled eggs, cut in similar pieces : cut 
fine the white stalks of three heads of celery, and mix 
with the tongue and eggs. Make a dressing as follows : 
Beat together four eggs, six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
five of melted butter, one of prepared mustard, one of 
sugar, and two-thirds of a cup of cream ; put over the fire 
in a double boiler, and cook until as thick as boiled 
custard. Set aside to cool ; season with salt and a little 
cayenne, thin with lemon juice, if too thick ; mix with the 
tongue and other ingredients, and serve at once. 

Crab Salad. 
Take two small crabs, one large lettuce, one bunch water- 
cress, 2% tablespoonsful of oil, one of vinegar, one hard 
boiled egg, a few slices of beet root or a tomato, pepper 
and salt. Pick all the meat from the shells and shred it 
finely. "Wash and dry the lettuce and cress, and cut it up 
in a bowl, and mix first with the oil, next the pepper and 
salt, and lastly, the vinegar. Stir all well together, then 



SALADS 111 

add the crab, mixing it well with the salad. Pile on a 
flat dish and garnish with the egg cut in slices and the 
beet root, or tomato. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Put in a stewpan a lump of butter the size of an egg and 
when melted, put in a tablespoonful of flour ; then add a 
teaeupful of milk or water and let it come to a boil ; have 
ready three beaten eggs mixed with a tablespoonful of 
sugar, a teaspoonful of dry mustard and a teaeupful of 
vinegar ; salt and pepper to taste ; stir in with the other 
ingredients in the saucepan, let come to a boil and set 
away to cool. 

Mayonnaise Dressing, No. 2. 

One teaspoonful dry mustard, saltspoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful sugar, yolks of two eggs, i^ pint olive oil, 
stir until thick, then add a little vinegar. 

Mayonnaise Dressing, No. 3. 
Two eggs — separated, salt in each — ^beat constantly; 
% lemon by degrees, one cupful of best olive oil put in 
very slowly, use salt to thicken. Two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, alternate with oil. One third teaspoonful mus- 
tard, % teaspoonful red pepper, the whites beat very 
thoroughly and put in last thing. Have all ice-cold, put 
bowl in dish of cold water while making. 

Salad Dressing. 
Take the yolks of two hard boiled eggs, mash fine in a 
bowl; add two tablespoonsful of white sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one of mustard, and half a teaspoonful of 
white pepper. When thoroughly mixed, add two well 
beaten eggs, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and 
half a cupful of vinegar. Set the bowl over the teakettle. 



112 SALADS 

or on the stove in a dish of hot water, and cook until it 
thickens. Eemove from the stove and when cold stir in 
two-thirds of a cupful of thick sweet cream. 

Sour Cream Dressing. 
Put a cupful of thick, sour cream in a bowl and set on 
the ice for several hours, or until it is very cold. "When 
ready to serve, beat it with an egg beater for a few min- 
utes ; if it is as cold as it should be it will beat up into a 
stiff white foam. Now add to the cream, one teaspoonful 
of salt, a little cayenne, the juice of a small lemon, two or 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and beat for two or three 
minutes longer. This is a nice dressing for vegetables. 

French Salad Dressing. 

Put six tablespoonfuls of salad oil in a bowl ; add to it 
three tablespoonfuls of white wine vinegar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little cayenne, and a few drops of onion 
juice ; beat all together with a beater and it is ready to 
serve. This is a nice dressing for lettuce or tomatoes. 

Tartare Dressing. 
For tartare sauce take mayonnaise dressing and stir 
into it half a small bettle of capers, or a few cucumber 
pickles chopped fine. 

Summer Salad. 
Ingredients: Three lettuce, two handfuls of mustard 
and cress, ten young radishes, a few slices of cucumber. 
Let the herbs be as fresh as possible' for a salad. "Wash 
and carefully pick them over, and drain thoroughly by 
swinging them gently in a clean cloth. Cut the lettuces 
into small pieces, and the radishes and cucumbers into 
thin slices ; arrange all these ingredients lightly on a dish, 
with the mustard and cress, and pour under, but not over, 
the salad, either of the dressings above, and do not stir it 
np until it is to be eaten. It should be garnished with hard 
boiled eggs cut in slices, and beet root alternately; or 



SALADS 113 

sliced cucumbers, nasturtiums ; or many other things may 
be used, as the taste suggests. In making a good salad, 
care must be taken to have the herbs freshly gathered, 
and thoroughly drained before the sauce is added to them, 
or it will be watery and thin. Young spring onions, cut 
small, are by many persons considered an improvement to 
salads ; but before these are added, the cook should always 
consult the taste of those to be served. Slices of cold meat 
or poultry added to a salad make a convenient and 
quickly-made summer luncheon dish ; or cold fish, flaked, 
will also be found exceedingly nice, mixed with it. 

Waldorf Salad. 

Equal parts of apple and celery, cubed, served on let- 
tuce with walnuts and cold boiled eggs with dressing over. 

Spinach Salad. 
Take l/^ a. peck of fresh, crisp spinach, wash thoroughly 
in several waters, put in steamer and steam for about ten 
minutes, turn into a colander and drain; then chop fine, 
season with salt, pepper, and two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter ; mix well and press into small molds or cups. When 
cold, place each form on lettuce leaf and put one spoonful 
of good salad dressing on each. 

Herring Salad. 
Soak two salt herrings over night in cold water, remove 
the skin and bones, and mince fine. Cut into cubes (dice 
shape) one cold boiled beet, one onion, one large pickle, 
one sour apple, two hard-boiled eggs and two cold boiled 
potatoes, add % cupful of cold meat (veal preferred) cut 
fine; mix all well with the herring, moisten with sauce 
made of good stock, vinegar, a little claret, mustard and 
pepper. Let stand over night in a porcelain dish, stir once 
more thoroughly and see that all is juicy. Then garnish 
in concentric rings with chopped parsley, white of egg, 
yellow of egg and beets. 



'•CSt) 




Boiled Eggs. 
Have a saucepan of boiling water; drop the eggs in 
carefully. To have the^eggs soft, boil three minutes; me- 
dium, five minutes ; hard, fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Hard Boiled Eggs. 
After boiling fifteen or twenty minutes, Jake out and 
put in cold water for a few moments. This will cause the 
shells to come off readily. They may be sent to the table 
in the shell, or served with a hot sauce. They are very 
nice cut in halves and served with a mayonnaise dressing. 

Fried Eggs. 
Having enough fat in a fryingpan to nearly cover the 
eggs when frying, break each egg separately in a saucer, 
then slip into the hot fat. Do not turn the eggs over, but 
cook the' top by basting the hot fat oVer the eggs. A 
good plan is to put muffin rings in the fryingpan and drop 
the eggs in, for this gives the eggs a nice shape. The ring's 
can be lifted out with a fork as soon as the white is partly 
cooked. 

U4 



EGGS 115 

Deviled Eggs. 
Boil a dozen eggs for twenty minutes ; put in cold water 
and take ofiE the shell. With a sharp knife cut in halves 
lengthwise, take out the yolks carefully, put in a bowl and 
rub fine ; season with pepper, salt, a little cayenne, a table- 
spoonful of prepared mustard, and three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, mix all thoroughly together and fill the 
eggs with the mixture. Put the halves together and tie 
with thread or skewer together with short toothpicks ; this 
is for ordinary use. For picnics, or cold spreads, a pleas- 
ing effect is produced by tying them with narrow colored 
ribbon, or gilt cord. If it is desirable to serve them hot, 
prepare as above, dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker dust, 
and fry in hot lard. 

Deviled Eggs, No. 2. 

Boil hard as many eggs as required, cut lengthwise in 
half, extract the yolks, rub to a smooth paste with a lit- 
tle melted butter, salt, pepper and a very little vinegar 
and mustard ; fill the hollowed whites with this paste and 
serve on a platter which has been covered with lettuce 
leaves. 

Eggs on a Plate. 
Put a lump of butter the size of an egg in a deep earthen 
plate, put in the oven, and when the butter is melted and 
the plate hot, break in half a dozen eggs, season with salt 
and pepper, and put back in the oven until the whites are 
set. Serve on the plate on which they are cooked. 

Poached Eggs. 
Have enough boiling hot water in a pan to cover the 
eggs, but do not let it boil while putting in the eggs, as it 
will render the whites ragged and broken ; break each egg 
seperately, and slip carefully into the water, and when 
th« whites are beginning to set, bring to a boil and begin 
to dip off the water until the tops are bare ; boil until the 



116 EGGS 

whites are firm, take up carefully, put a small lump of 
butter, a little salt, and one shake of pepper on each egg, 
and serve. 

Egg Baskets. 
Boil eggs for twenty minutes, take off the shells, and 
with a sharp knife cut in two crosswise ; take out the yolks, 
rub fine, season with salt, pepper, melted butter and a 
little prepared mustard; put this mixture in the Whites, 
cut a small slice from the bottom, so they will stand up- 
right, arrange on the dish on which they are to be served 
and pour over them hot Old Zealand sauce (see sauces) as 
a dressing. Serve at once. 

Baked Eggs in Potato Cases. 

Cook sufficient potatoes and mash" the evening before ^ 
needed ; season well, ready for the table, flour the mold- 
ing board, pull the potato out into a thick cake (three 
cups potato will make five or six cases), cut with a cake . 
cutter and lay on a buttered tin. With the fingers press 
a hollow in each cake; this can be done while potato is 
warm at night. In the morning brush the cases with 
milk and place in the oven to brown. "When hot and 
nearly brown enough, remove from the oven and drop an 
egg into each case with a dash of pepper and a bit of 
butter -on each egg. Bake until egg is set — lift;, with a 
cake turner and place on hot platter. Garnish with par- 
sley or celery tips. (Excellent for breakfast or luncheon.) 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Put in a hot fryingpan, two or three tablespoonfuls of 
butter; when hot, break in six or eight eggs and com- 
mence stirring at once, and continue until the eggs are 
cooked; turn into a dish, season with salt and pepper, and 
serve hot. 



EGGS 117 

Scrambled Eggs No. 2. 
Have the fryingpan hot, and put in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter J beat six eggs with half a cupful of milk, just 
enough to mix them, pour into the pan, commence stirring 
at once, and when done dish up and serve hot. 

Eggs with Creamed Beef or Codfish. 
Just before dishing the beef or fish, poach as many eggs 
as there are persons to be served, and place in the dish, 
pour the creamed meat over them and serve. Another 
way is to drop the eggs into the pan with the meat and 
let them cook until done ; care must be used not to break 
the eggs in transferring from the pan in which they are 
cooked to the dish in which they are to be served. 

Plain Omelet. 
Have a smooth fryingpan, heat it, and put in a table- 
spoonful of butter ; beat six eggs Until light, and pour into 
the fryingpan. Let it cook until almost done through, 
,then with a klife, double one-half over on the other half, 
and let cook for a moment longer. In transferring from 
the fryingpan to the dish on which it is to be served, hold 
the fryingpan in the left hand, slip a knife under the lower 
end of the omelet, lift a little, give the pan a little shake, 
and the omelet will be on the dish in good shape. An 
omelet can be equally well cooked by putting in the oven 
and baking instead of frying. ' 

Oyster Omelet. 
Proceed as in plain omelet, and just before folding over, 
cover one-half with well drained oysters, season with salt 
and pepper and pour over them a tablespoonful of melted 
butter ; fold the omelet and set in the oven for two or three 
minutes, until the oysters are cooked through. Serve at 
once. 



118 - EGGS 

Cheese Omelet. 

Beat together two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese, and a scant half cupful of milk ; when well beaten- 
proceed as in plain omelet, and serve hot. 

Ham or Beef Omelet. 

For ham or beef omelet, proceed as in plain, and as soon 
as it is "set" in the pan, sprinkle with cooked ham or beef, 
chopped fine ; fold over and serve. 

Mushroom Omelet. 

Chop half a can of mushrooms that have been thoroughly 
drained, mix with four well beaten eggs and proceed as in 
plain omelet, putting a little more butter in the pan than 
for plain. 

Omelet Souffle. \ 

Ingredients : Six eggs, >five ounces pounded sugar, fla- 
voring of vanilla, orange-flower water, or lemon rind; 
three ounces of butter, one dessertspoonful of rice flour. 
Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, add to the 
former the sugar, the rice flour, and either of the abova^ 
flavorings that may be preferred, and stir these ingredi- 
ents well together. "Whip the whites of the eggs, taiix 
them lightly with the batter, and put the butter into a 
small fryingpan. As soon as it begins to bubble, pour the 
batter into it, and set the pan over a bright but gentle fire ; 
and when the omelet is set, turn the edges over to make it 
an oval shape, and slip it onto a silver dish, which has been 
previously well buttered. Put it in the oven, and bake 
from twelve to fifteen minutes ; sprinkle only powdered 
sugar over the souffle, and serve it immediately. 

Eum Omelet. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs with six tablespoonfuls of 
milk; when well beaten add the whites, which must be 
beaten to a stiff froth, mix well together ; put a lump of 



EGGS 119 

butter the size of an egg in the fryingpan, and when hot 
pour in the eggs; when browned on the under side, set 
in the oven for five minutes ; double as you take from the 
pan, cover with pulverized sugar and pour over all a gill 
of best Jamaica rum; burn the rum until the alcohol is 
exhausted, basting all the time. 

Jam Omelet. 

Needed : Six eggs, four ounces of butter, three table- 
spoonfuls of apricot, strawberry, or any jam that may be 
preferred. Make the omelet by receipt No. 1 and leave 
flat in the pan. When quite firm, and nicely browned on 
one side, turn it carefully onto a hot dish, spread over the 
middle of it the jam, and fold the omelet over on each 
side; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve very quickly. 
A pretty dish of small omelets may be made by dividing 
the batter into three or four portions, and frying them 
separately; they should then be spread each one with a 
different kind of preserve, and the omelets rolled over. 
Always sprinkle sweet omelets with sifted sugar before 
sending them to the table. 

French Pancakes. 
Ingredients: Two eggs, two ounces of butter, two 
ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of flour, % pint of new 
milk. Beat the eggs thoroughly and put them into a basin 
with the butter, which should be beaten to a cream ; stir in 
the sugar and flour, and when these ingredients are well 
mixed, add the milk; keep stirring and beating the mix- 
ture for a few minutes ; put it on buttered plates, and bake 
in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve with a cut 
lemon and sifted sugar, or pile the pancakes high on a dish, 
with a layer of preserve or marmalade between each. 

Snow Eggs. 
Needed : Five eggs, one pint of milk, pounded sugar to 
taste, flavoring of vanilla, lemon rind, or orange flower 



120 EGGS 

water. Put the milk into a saucepan with sufficient sugar 
to sweeten it nicely, and the rind of half a lemon. Let 
this steep by the side of the fire for half an hour, then 
take out the peel; separate' the whites from the yolks of 
the eggs, and whisk the former to a perfectly stiff froth,- 
or until there is no liquid remaining; bring the milk to 
the boiling point, then drop in the snow a tablespodnful 
at a time, and keep turning the eggs until sufficiently 
cooked. Then place them on a glass dish, beat up the 
egg-yolks, stir the milk into them, add a little more sugar, 
and strain this mixture into a jug; place the jug in 
a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until 
the mixture thiekens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will 
curdle. Pour this custard over-the eggs, and they should 
rise to the surface. They make an exceedingly pretty 
addition to a supper, and should be put in a cold place 
after being made. When they are flavored with vanilla 
or orange flower water, it is not necessary to steep the 
milk. A few drops of the essence of either may be poured 
in the milk just before the whites are poached. In making 
the custard, a little more flavoring and sugar should al- 
ways be added. 

Scotch Eggs. 

Ingredients : Six eggs, six, tablespoonfuls of forcemeat, 
hot lard, V^ pint of good brown gravy. Boil the eggs 
for ten minutes ; strip them from the shells, and cover 
with forcemeat. • Fry the eggs a nice brown in boiling lard, 
drain them before the fire, eliminating greasy moisture, 
dish up, and pour round them a quartgr to half a pint' 
of good brown gravy. To enhance the appearance of the( 
eggs, they may be rolled in beaten egg and sprinkled with 
bread crumbs; but this is scarcely necessary if they are 
carefully fried. The flavor of ham or anchovy must pre- 
ponderate in the forcenieat, as it should be very relishing. 



EGGS 121 

Dutch Omelet. 
Break eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and 
salt, add two ounces of butter cut small, beat these well 
together; heat an ounce of butter in a fryingpan, put 
the eggs in, oontinue to stir, drawing it away from 
the sides that it may be evenly done, and shake now and 
then to free it from the pan ; when the under side is a little 
browned, turn the omelet into a dish, and serve. This 
must be done over a moderate fire. 

Eggs a La Suisse. 
Spread the bottom of a dish with two ounces of fresh 
butter; cover this with grated cheese, and break eight 
whole eggs upon the cheese without breaking the yolks. 
Season with red pepper, and salt if necessary; pour a 
little cream on the surface, strew about two ounces of 
grated cheese on the top, and set the eggs in a moderate 
oven for about a quarter of an hour. Pass a hot sala- 
mander over the top to brown it. 

Curried Eggs. 
Slice two onions and fry in butter ; add a tablespoonful 
of curry powder, and one pint of good broth or stock; 
stew till onions are quite tender; add a cup of cream 
thickened with arrowroot or rice flour, simmer a few mo- 
ments, then add eight or ten hard boiled eggs cut in slices, 
and beat them well, but do not boil. 

Creamed Eggs. 
Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Make one pint of cream 
sauce. Have six slices of toast on a hot dish. Put a layer 
of sauce on each one, and then part of the whites of the 
eggs ; cut in thin strips, and rub part of the yolks through 
a sieve on the toast. Repeat this, and finish with a third 
layer of sauce. Place in the oven for about three minutes. 
Garnish with parsley, and serve. 




Boiled Potatoes. 

Peel the potatoes and let stand in cold water for at least 
half an hour before boiling. Put in a kettle, cover with 
cold water and boil until done, which will take from thirty 
to forty minutes. When done, drain, and put back upon 
the stove, removing the cover to let the steam escape; 
then dish up and serve. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Select large, smooth potatoes, wash and bake without 
removing the skins. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Select small and irregular-shaped potatoes, which will 
not look so well cooked in other ways; peel, wash and 
boil until done ; drain and mash thoroughly, season with 
salt and pepper, butter and milk or cream. Stir until light, 
put in a tureen, put smallbits of butter over the top, 
and serve. 

122 



VEGETABLES 123 

Potatoes Roasted with Meat. 
Peel and wash medium-sized potatoes, put in with roast 
meat and roast for thirty or forty minutes, basting fre- 
quently. 

Potato Cakes. 
Take cold mashed potatoes and form into small cakes 
with the hands, put a spoonful of drippings into a hot fry- 
ingpan, put in the cakes and fry both sides to a nice brown ; 
serve at once. 

Baked Potato Balls. 
Take warm mashed potatoes, form into round balls with 
the hands, roll in flour, place in rows in a baking pan and 
bake in a quick oA'en for fifteen minutes, serve with drawn 
butter sauce. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Slice cold potatoes (new ones are the best) and put in 
a fryiugpan with hot melted butter, fry until brown and 
stir to keep from scorching ; serve hot. 

French Fried Potatoes. 
Peel and cut potatoes into narrow strips lengthwise, 
wash and drain, and dry upon a towel or napkin, then 
plunge into hot fat and fry to a nice brown. Take ottt 
with a wire skimmer, drain in a colander, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and serve hot. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 
Peel and slice small potatoes, wash and place a layer of 
them in a baking dish ; season with salt and pepper, and 
put small bits of butter on the top. Continue these layers 
until the dish is full. Then pour in enough milk to almost 
cover the potatoes, put in the oven and bake for\ three- 
quarters of an hour. 



124 VEGETABLES 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 
Wash and trim the potatoes arid boil from forty to fifty 
minutes. "When done, place in the oven a few minutes to 
dry, serve whole. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 
Prepare as above, and bake for about an hour. Large 
ones will require an hour and a quarter to bake well done. 

Cold Sweet Potatoes. 
Sweet potatoes that are left over from a previous meal 
are nice when sliced and fried brown in hot butter. 

Fried Potatoes with Eggs. * 

Slice cold boiled potatoes and fry with small pieces of 
salt pork or good butter until brown^ then break up two 
or three eggs and stir into them, just as you dish them for 
the table. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 
Peel the potatoes and slice them with a slaw cutter, put- 
them in cold water with a handful of salt and let them 
stand for an hour or more, then drain first in a colander, 
then on a napkin until dry. Fry in hot lard until a nice 
brown. These will keep several days, should they lose 
their crispness before aU are used, set in a brisk oven for 
a few moments. 

Scalloped Onions. 
Boil six or -eight large onions until tender. If the onions 
are very strong, change the ,wat.er once while boiling. 
Separate them with a spoon ^nd place alternately a layer 
of onion and a layer of bread crumbs in a pudding dish, 
season each layer with salt, pepper and melted butter, 
then pour over the whole enough milk to nearly cover 
them ; put in the oven and bake to a nice brown. 



VEGETABLES 125 

Creamed Onions. 
, Peel, wash and boil until tender, a quart of medium 
sized onions. When done, drain off the water and put in 
enough milk to almost cover them, season with salt and 
pepper, mix % a tablespoonful of flour with a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, stir this into the onions, when 
the milk boils, and boil a few minutes. 

Fried Onions. 

Slice the onions fine and put in a fryingpan containing 
about y2 a cupful of pork drippings, or butter and lard, 
equal parts, season with salt and pepper and fry to a nice 
brown ; stir frequently. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 
.Boil macaroni in salt and water until tender, butter a 
pudding dish and put in a layer of macaroni, then layer 
of grated cheese, season with butter and pepper, then put 
in another layer of macaroni and so on until the dish is 
nearly full ; finish with a layer of cheese, put in enough 
milk to nearly cover all and bake forty minutes. 

Creamed Macaroni. 
■ Boil half a package of macaroni until tender, in slightly 
salted water. "When done, drain and cut into two-inch 
lengths and put in a pudding dish ; pour over it & drawn 
butter sauce, and cover the top with rolled cracker, and 
bake for half an hour. 

Boiled CauIiSower. 
Trim and clean a head of nice white cauliflower and boil 
in salted water for one-half hour, take out and drain, 
break apart carefully and arrange in the dish in which it 
is to be served and pour over melted butter or a drawn 
butter sauce, season with pepper and salt if necessary. 
Cabbage cut in quarters, boiled and drained, is very nice 
prepared in like manner. 



126 VEGETABLES 

Baked Cauliflower. 
Boil a head of cauliflower whole in salt and water ; and* 
when tender drain carefully and put in a dish that will fit 
into one which is suitable to put on the table ; pour over 
it a drawn butter sauce, sprinkle a little grated cheese 
over all, baste with melted butter and bake to a nice brown 
and serve. 

Fried Egg Plant. 
Peel the plant and cut in slices about half an inch in 
thickness ; sprinkle the slices with a little salt, and let it 
stand for an hour or two. Then dip first in beaten egg, 
then in cracker dust, and fry in hot butter; season with 
pepper and salt while frying. Serve at once. 

Baked Egg Plant. 
Cut an egg plant in halves, season with salt and pepper ; 
do not peel it, but cut the ends so it will stand ; put in a 
baking pan, baste with butter, and bake about thirty min- 
utes, using butter freely. 

Green Vegetables. 

All green vegetables should be boiled in salted watei 
until done. If you do not wish to use them at once, put 
them in cold water and they will keep fresh in this way 
for several days; when ready for use, treat them as 
canned vegetables. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Cut a cabbage into six or eight pieces and boil in salted 
water until tender ; drain, put into the dish in which they 
are to be served, season with salt and pepper, and melted 
butter. Serve hot. 

Pried Cabbage. 

Fry three slices of fat salt pork to a crisp ; take out the ' 
pork; have half a head of cabbage chopped fine, put it into 



VEGETABLES 127 

the hot fat and cover closely ; let cook a few minutes, then 
take off the cover and fry to a light brown, stirring often, 
so as to have the color uniform. 

Cabbage Cooked in Milk. 
Chop haK a head of cabbage fine, put into a stewpan, 
cover with water, and boil until tender; then draw off 
the water, add milk to nearly cover the cabbage, add a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste ; 
simmer in the milk ten or fifteen minutes, and serve. 

Cabbage Dressing. 
Two teaspoonfuls butter, two teaspoonfuls sugar, two 
of flour, two of mustard, one cupful vinegar, one egg, 
salt and pepper; stir all together, and let it come to a 
boil and pour hot on the finely chopped cabbage and mix 
well, then cover till cool. 

Cabbage Dressing, No. 2. 
Beat three eggs, one gill of vinegar, one of water; 
cook these gently; when it begins to thicken, stir in a 
piece of butter, the size of a hickory nut, a teaspoonful 
of salt, a spoonful of white sugar ; when it is cold, pour 
over the cabbage. 

Mashed Turnips. 
Peel and wash the turnips, and cut into pieces the size 
of a medium-sized potato, boil until tender; when done, 
drain, mash fine and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

String Beans. 

String the beans and cut into three or four pieces ; boil 

in salted water until tender; drain and pour over them 

milk or sweet cream ; add a small lump of butter, pepper 

and salt to taste, and boil five minutes longer ; then serve. 

Deviled Tomatoes. 

Take large firm tomatoes and cut in slices one-half inch 
in thickness, and lay in a shallow dish ; rub the yolk of a 



128 VEGETABLES 

hard-boiled egg with one tablespoonful of vinegar, one of 
melted butter, one teaspoonful of sugar, a very little salt, 
nrastard and cayenne ; stir smooth, set upon the stove, and 
let come to a boil ; then pour it on a well beaten egg, set 
in a vessel containing hot water, while you broil the toma- 
toes; lay them on a hot dish and ^our the hot dressing 
over them. 

Baw Tomatoes. 
Peel the tomatoes, slice and place in the dish in which 
they are to be served ; season with salt) pepper, sugar and 
vinegar ; or a mayonnaise dressing can be made and poured 
over them. 

StuiTed .Tomatoes. 
Take a dozen plump tomatoes, cut a thin slice off from 
the stem end, and lift out the heart and juice; drain off 
the juice and crush -the pulp with a potato masher; mix 
with them one-fourth of a cupful of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one and one-half eupfuls of bread 
crumbs, and with this mixture fill the tomatoes; put on 
the tops and arrange in a baking pan, and bake forty-five 
minutes. 

Green Peas. 
Boil until tender, drain nearly dry ; season with butter, 
pepper and salt. A cupful of cream can be added if pre- 
ferred. 

Lima Beans and Shelled Beans. 
Lima beans and shelled beans are boiled until tender 
and seasoned the same as green peas. 

Asparagus. 
Wash' the asparagus and cut off the hard ends ; boil 
until tender and season with butter, pepper and salt, serve 
on dry toast. 



VEGETABLES 129 

Green Corn Fritters. 
Grate two cupfuls of corn from the cob ; mix with it one 
beaten egg, one cupful of sweet milk, soda the size of a 
pea, one tablespoonf ul of melted butter ; add flour enough 
to make a batter. Fry on a hot griddle ; or by adding a 
little more flour, they can be fried in spoonfuls in a kettle 
of hot lard. 

Green Corn. 
Husk and pick off the silk carefully, and boil in salted 
water from thirty to forty minutes. A few minutes of 
cooking will suffice for canned corn. Season with butter, 

pepper and salt ; add milk, if desired. 
* 

Oyster Plant. 

Scrape and wash the root, and cut in thin slices. For 
soup add milk, and season the same as oyster stew. As 
a vegetable drain off nearly all the water, and add enough 
milk to nearly cover, add pepper and salt, and a good sized 
lump of butter, in which has been stirred a tablespoonful 
of flour. . Do not put in enough flour to make the dressing 
thick, but just enough to render it creamy. 

Mushrooms. 

Peel and Vash a dozen heads of mushrooms, and whiten 
by plunging them alternately in hot and cold water. Let 
them drain, and when dry, put them in a saucepan with a 
tablespoonful of melted butter; cook for a few minutes, 
then add a teaspoonful of flour, a little salt and pepper, 
and half a pint of stock; let cook slowly for fifteen or 
twenty minutes ; remove the mushrooms and place on the 
dish on which they are to be served ; add a little water to 
the sauce, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and a 
teaspoonful of vinegar; cook for a minute or two, and 
pour over the mushrooms, and serve. 



130 VEGETABLES 

Boiled Hominy. 

Wash the hominy and put into a stone jar. Do not fill 
the jar much over half full with the hominy ; then fill up 
the jar with cold water, place the jar in a kettle of boiling 
water, and cook for six hours. Let it be served as a side 
dish ; season with melted butter or cream. For breakfast 
it is served with cream and sugar. 

Spinach. 

Cut off the roots, look over very carefully, and wash in 
several waters; boil for one-half hour, or until tender. 
Take up and drain in a^colander, place in the dish in which 
it is to be served ; make it smooth with a knife, then cut 
through it three or four times, both ways, with a sharp 
knife. Season liberally with hot melted butter, pepper 
and salt, if necessary. A cupful of scalded cream, or a 
drawn butter sauce, can be use^ as a dressing, instead of 
the melted butter, if preferred. 

Boiled Rice. 

Use one cupful of rice, and cover with two cupfuls of 
cold water; boil until the rice has absorbed the water; 
then add a pint of milk, and boil fOr thirty or forty min- 
utes longer, stirring carefully from time to time; season 
with salt. Put it in the dish in which it is to be served, 
and pour over it a little melted butter. 

Parsnips. (Pried.) 
Scrape and wash clean, and boil until tender in salted 
water ; take out of the kettle, drain and cut in halves ; dip 
in a beaten egg and fry in hot butter, or lard. 

Parsnips. (Boiled.) 
Prepare as above and season with butter, pepper and 
salt, and serve hot. 



VEGETABLES 131 

Succotash. 
Take two cupfuls of green corn cut off the cob, and one 
cupful of green shelled beans ; put in stewpan, cover with 
water; add a teaspoonful of salt and boil until tender. 
"When done, add one-half a cupful of cream, or milk, a 
small lump of butter, pepper and salt if necessary; cook 
for a few minutes and serve. 

Hominy Croquettes. 
Mix together two cupfuls of cold boiled hominy, two 
eggs, a tablespooriful of melted butter, and a little salt, 
and a teaspoonful of flour; fry in small spoonfuls in hot 
lard. Serve with maple syrup, honey, or melted sugar. 

Steamed Bice. 
Put in a pudding dish one cupful of rice, and three cup- 
fuls of milk, or water; add a large teaspoonful of salt, 
and steam one and one-quarter hours. Serve the same as 
boiled rice. 

Bice Croquettes. 

Take two cupfuls of cold rice, either boiled or steamed, 
and mix into it thoroughly two beaten eggs, and a table- 
spoonful of melted butter. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Take sufficient mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to 
taste ; and, if liked, a very little minced parsley, egg, and 
bread crumbs. Boil and mash the potatoes; add a sea- 
soning of pepper and salt, and a little minced parsley may 
be added, or not. Roll the potatoes into small balls, cover 
them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot oil or 
drippings until light brown ; let them drain before the 
fire, dish them on a napkin, and serve. 

Boiled Artichokes. 

Te each % gallon of water, allow one heaping table- 
spoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a twenty-five 



182 VEGETABLES 

cent piece. "Wash the artichokes well in several waters ; 
see that no insects remain about them, and trim away the 
leaves at t^e bottom. Cut off the stems and put them into 
boiling water, to which have been added salt and soda in 
the above proportion. Keep the saucepan uncovered, 
and let them boil quickly until tender ; ascertain when 
they are done by thrusting a fork in them or by try- 
ing if the leaves can be easily removed. Take them out, 
let them drain for a minute or two, and serve on a nap- 
kin, or with a little white sauce poured over. A tureen 
of melted butter or oiled butter should accompany them. 
This vegetable, unlike any other, is considered better for 
being gathered two or three days ; but they must be well 
soaked and washed previous to dressing, or if left till cold, 
they can be served with olive oil and vinegar. 

Boiled Beets. 
"When large, young and juicy, this vegetable makes a 
very excellent addition to winter salads, and may easily 
be converted into an economical and quickly made pickle. 
Beets are more frequently served cold than hot ; when the 
latter mode is -preferred, melted butter should be sent to 
table with it. They may also be stewed with button 
onions, or boiled and served with roasted onions. Wash 
the beets thoroughly ; but do not prick or break the skin 
before they are cooked, or they will lose their beautiful 
color in boiling. Put them into boiling water, and let them 
boil until tender, keeping them well covered. If to be 
served hot, remove the peel quickly, cut the beet into thick 
slices, and send to table with melted butter. For salads, 
pickle, etc., let the root cool, then peel, and cut into slices. 

Boiled Brussels Sprouts. 

Clean the sprouts from insects, nicely wash them, and 
pick off any dead or discolored leaves from the outsides ; 
put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and 



VEGETABLES 133 

and let them boil quickly over a brisk fire until tender; 
soda in the above proportion; keep the pan uncovered, 
drain, dish and serve with a tureen of melted buttei', and 
maitre d 'hotel sauce is sometimes poured over them. An- 
other mode of serving is, when they are dished, to stir in 
about one and a half ounces of butter, and a seasoning of 
pepper and salt. They must, however, be sent to table 
very quickly, as, being so very small, this vegetable soon 
cools. Where the cook is very expeditious, this vegetable, 
when cooked, may be arranged on the dish in the form of 
a pineapple ; and so served, has a very pretty appearance. 

Stewed Red Cabbage. 

Needed: One red cabbage, a small slice of ham, i/^ 
ounce of fresh butter, one pint of weak stock or broth, one 
gill of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, one tablespoonful 
of pounded sugar. Cut the cabbage into very thin slices, 
put it into a stewpan, with the ham cut in dice, the butter, 
half a pint of stock, and the vinegar ; cover the pan closely, 
and let it stew for one hour. "When it is very tender, add 
the remainder of the stock, a seasoning of salt and pepper, 
and the pounded sugar; mix all well together, stir over 
the fire until nearly all the liquor has dried away, and 
ser\'e. Fried sausages are usually sent to the table with 
this dish ; they should be laid around and on the cabbage, 
as a garnish. 

Stewed Carrots. 
Take seven or eight large carrots, one teacupful of 
broth, pepper and salt to taste, I/2 teacupful of cream, 
thickening of butter and flour. Scrape the carrots nicely ; 
half boil, and slice them into a stewpan; add the broth, 
pepper and salt, and cream; simmer till tender, and be 
careful the carrots are not broken. A few minutes before 
serving, mix a little flour with about one ounce of butter ; 
thicken the gravy with this ; let it just boil up, and serve. 



134 VEaSTABLES 

Baked Mushrooms. 

For this mode of cooking, the mushroom flaps are better 
than the buttons and should not be too larger Cut off a 
portion of stalk, peel the top, and put them at once into 
a tin iaaking dish, with a very small piece of butter placed 
on each mushroom ; sprinkle over a little pepper, and let 
them bake for about twenty minutes. Have ready a very 
hot dish, pile the mushrooms high in the center, pour the 
gravy round, and send them to the table quickly on very 
hot plates. 

Baked Spanish Onions'. 

Put the onions, with their skins on, into, a saucepan of 
boiling water, slightly salted, and let them boil quickly 
for an hour. Then take out and wipe thoroughly, wrap- 
ping each one in a piece of buttered paper, and bake 
them in a moderate oven for two hours, or longer, should 
the onions be very large. They may be served in their 
skins and eaten with a piece of cold butter and a season- 
ing of pepper and salt ; or they may be peeled, and a good 
brown gravy poured over them. 

Stewed Cucumbers. 

Take three large cucumbers, flour, butter, and a little 
more than' % pint of good brown gravy. Cut, the cucum- 
bers lengthwise the size of the dish they are intended to 
be served in ; empty them of the seeds, and put into boil- 
ing water, with a little salt, and let simmer for five min- 
utes; then take out, place in another stewpan with the 
gravy, and let them boil over a brisk fire until tender. 
Should they be bitter, add a lump of sugar; carefully dish 
them, skim the sauce, pour over the cucumbers, and serve. 

A German Method of Oooking Potatoes. 

Needed: Eight to ten medium-sized potatoes, three 
ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, i/^ pint of 
broth, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Put the butter and 



VEGETABLES 135 

flour in a stewpan ; stir over the fire iintil the butter is of 
a nice brown color, and add the broth and vinegar; peel 
and cut the potatoes into long thin slices, lay them in the 
gravy, and let simmer gently until tender, which will be 
in from ten to fifteen minutes, and serve very hot. A lau- 
rel leaf simmered with the potatoes is a,n improvement. 

Stewed Spanish Onions. 

Peel the onions, taking care not to cut away too much 
of the tops or tails, or they would then fall to pieces ; put 
in a stewpan capable of holding them at the bottom with- 
out piling one on the top of another; add the broth or 
gravy, and simmer very gently until the onions are per- 
fectly tender. Dish them, pour the gravy round, and 
serve. Instead of using broth, Spanish onions may be 
stewed with a large piece of butter ; they must be cooked 
very gradually over a slow fire or hot plate, and will pro- 
duce plenty of gravy. 

Note. — Stewed Spanish onions are a favorite accom- 
paniment to roast shoulder of mutton. 

Spinach Dressed with Cream. 
Needed: Two pailfuls of spinach, two tablespoonfuls.of 
salt, two ounces of butter, eight tablespoonfuls of cream, 
one small teaspoonful of pounded sugar, a very little 
gloated nutmeg. Boil and drain the spinach, chop it finely, 
and put it into a stewpan with the butter; stir over a gentle 
fire, and when the butter has dried away, add the remain- 
ing ingredients, and simmer for about five minutes. Boil 
the cream before adding, or it may curdle. Serve on a 
hot dish, and garnish either with sippets of toasted bread 
or leaves of puff paste. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take six ripe tomatoes, some bread erumbs, a little but- 
ter, onion, cayenne and salt. Scoop out a small hole at 
top of each tomato ; fr^ the brea(J crumbs, onion, etc, au4 



136 YEGETABLES 

fill the holes with this as high up as possible ; then bake the 
tomatoes in the oven and take care that the skins do not 
break. 

Boiled Vegetable Marrow. 

Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, properly salted, 
put in the marrows after peeling them, and boil them until 
quite tender, -Take them up with a slice (turnover), 
halve, and, if very large, quarter them. Dish them on 
toast and send to table with a tureen of melted butter, or, 
in lieu of this, a small pat of salt butter. Large vege- 
table marrows may be preserved throughout the winter 
by storing them in a dry place ; when wanted for use, a 
few slices should be cut and boiled in the same manner as 
above; but when once begun, the marrow must be eaten 
quickly, as it keeps but a short time after it is cut. Vege- 
table marrows are also very delicious, mashed; they 
should be boiled, then drained, and mashed smoothly with 
a wooden spoon. Heat them in a saucepan, add a seasoning 
of salt and pepper, and a small piece of butter, and dish 
with a few sippets of toasted bread placed round as a 
garnish. 

Vegetable marrows are delightful when sliced, and fried 
for ten minutes in butter. Before being fried they may 
be dipped in a batter of flour and water, seasoned with a 
little salt. Vegetable marrow may also be dressed as fol- 
lows : Boil one, and when it is about ready, cut it in 
pieces, which place in a fresh saucepan, covered with soup 
stock, either white or brown ; add a little salt in stewing. 
Serve in a deep dish when thoroughly tender. Vegetable 
marrows are very nice plain boiled, and served upon but- 
tered toast. Peel and cut them so as to be able to remove 
the seeds. Marrows will take from twenty minutes to an 
hour to boil, according to size and age. After being par- 
boiled, they may be sliced down, dipped in egg, rubbed 
in bread crumbs and fried ; serve them as hot as possible. 



VEGETABLES 137 

Boiled Asparagus. 

"White or violet asparagus is one of the most distin- 
guished and delicate of vegetables. Large sized aspara- 
gus is certainly the most highly valued, but only of a 
good sort, freshly gathered, and properly cooked. 

Previous to cooking asparagus, the stalks must be plucked, 
scraped, and cut to equal lengths; then selected and ar- 
ranged according to ^heir different sizes, taking the mid- 
dle-sized, small, and large ones separately. Then they 
are tied closely together -with, thread, or narrow strips 
of ribbon, plunged into boiling water at a few minutes' 
intervals, the largest first, in order that the bundles all 
may be done at the same time. The water in which the 
asparagus is boiled must be highly salted. 

The right moment for the cooking of asparagus is a 
consideration on no account to be overlooked; as, if as- 
paragus is too hard, it becomes unpalatable; and if too 
soft, it loses all its good qualities. In short, it is not 
well done if when, held by the thick end in a horizontal 
position between the fingers, it does not bend lightly, fcut 
falls heavily down. If the flavor of asparagus is to be 
well appreciated, it must be eaten immediately when 
boiled. As soon as the asparagus stalks are well drained 
they are dished in a pyramid on a folded napkin. Boiled 
asparagus is generally served with Dutch sauce, cream 
sauce or sauce with bread crumbs fried in butter. 

Pried Salsify, or Oyster-Plant. 
Previous to frying the salsify, they must be scraped 
and boiled in white stock. When drained and cooled, 
they are cut to equal lengths (about two inches), placed 
in a dish, and left to macerate ; that is, seasoned with salt 
and pepper, moistened with oil and lemon juice. A few 
minutes previous to serving the salsifies are drained, 
slightly floured, dipped into a light frying paste, and 
immediately plunged into very hot fat. But a small quan- 



138 VEGETABLES 

tity must be cooked at a time, lest they should not all of 
them get a nice color. As soon as removed from the fat, 
and well drained, they are sprinkled with a little salt, 
and dished in two parallel groups on a neatly folded nap- 
kin, thus to be served without delay. 

Artichokes, with Dutch Sauce. 
The artichokes, intended to be boiled, must be selected 
from the largest sort; the young ones being not so well 
adapted for this method" of cooking. Previous to being 
boiled the artichoke bottoms must "be trimmed, and 
rubbed with lemon juice; the leaves shortened by cut- 
ting them straight on the side opposite the bottom. They 
are plunged, one by one, into cold water, slightly acid- 
ulated, either with citric acid, or with lemon juice. Then 
the artichokes are plunged into acidulous boiling water; 
and left thus to boil on a moderate fire, while the stew- 
pan is kept covered. They are taken out of their cooking 
stock, by the aid of a skimmer, as soon as the hay (the 
center part of the artichoke) falls off, when touched and 
pushed with the fingers. When emptied, and well cleaned, 
they are put back into their own cooking stock, and kept 
thus a few minutes, previous to being served. They are 
then well drained, and dished in a pyramid on a folded 
napkin. Artichokes generally are acocmpanied by Dutch 
sauce or melted butter ; in either case, this sauce must be 
served separately. 

/arced Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms can be served farced or stuffed,. if they are 
large, and of an equal shape. Of whatever sort the mush- 
rooms intended to be farced may be, they must always be 
chosen fresh, trimmed, but not turned, emptied and sea- 
soned. The force meat which the mushrooms are farced 
with is generally composed of minced' mushrooms, and 
sweet herbs reduced with butter or oil, mixed up with 



VEGETABLES m 

bread crumbs, and thickened with raw eggs; this mince, 
however, may be replaced by a quenelle force meat mixed 
with cooked sweet herbs. As soon as the mushrooms are 
farced, they are bread crumbed, placed in a stewpan, or 
on a baking sheet, then moistened with melted butter or 
oil, and baked in the oven. This done, they are dished in 
a pyramid on a folded napkin. 

Green Peas, with "Croutons." 
Green peas, and asparagus, these are the vegetables 
preferred by the epicures of all countries. To green 
peas of truly fine quality all kinds of preparation may be 
applied; all of them will succeed. The French species, 
those sweet, fine, slightly perfumed green peas, are spread 
all over the world. In the middle of Russia, in Moscow, 
at Kiev, at Odessa ; as well as in Algiers, Spain, Germany, 
Italy, and all over America, everywhere are to be found 
green peas. 

For the preparation of green peas a la Francaise, they 
must be selected very fine, young, tender, and freshly 
gathered. In summer, green peas are soon affected by 
heat, and thus sometimes lose their best qualities in the 
lapse of but a few hours, if kept in a place shut up from 
the contact of the air. They are mixed with a little good 
butter and cold water boiled, with a sprig of parsley, a 
whole little onion, a little salt, a pinch of sugar; and are 
thickened, at the last moment, with butter mixed with 
flour. But, to make them delicate and savory, they must 
be cooked with moderation, and at the last moment be 
copiously enriched with good butter. The only garnish 
agreeing with green peas is, of course, the most simple 
one, bread croutons fried in butter and glazed. 

Spinach, with Eggs Boiled Soft. 

Spinach, although a vegetable common to all countries, 
is nevertheless highly appreciated, and well deserves to 



140 VEGETABLES 

be so. It is prepared with butter, thickened and garnished 
alternately with eggs boiled soft, and bread croutons, cut 
in a crescent shape, fried in buttfer, and glazed with the 
paste brush. But few cooks prepare spinach well ; and yet 
there is nothing simpler than the cooking of this vege- 
table. If prepared with cream or gravy, the spinach 
previously must be blanched, but in plenty of liquid, and 
01^ a very brisk fire ; thus it preserves its nice color with- 
out, however, boiling too long. When well drained, the 
water carefully pressed out, it is chopped, and plunged 
• into hot melted butter, cooked a la noisette ; which means, 
giving it a fine hazel, light brown color. The dampness 
of the vegetable having been dispersed, it is seasoned, and 
thickened with reduced good Bechamel sauce. The sauce 
may be short, and yet the spinach be reduced again, for 
a few minutes only, with the sauce. Then the spinach is 
removed from the fire, and finished with a piece of good 
butter. 

If the spinach is prepared with gravy, it is slightly 
floured, after being well warmed in the hazel butter; or 
else it is thickened with a brown sauce well reduced, and 
is boiled for a few minutes more, to take consistence by 
being mixed with a little succulent gravy, or rather some 
gpod half-glaze ; at the last moment it is finished with a 
piece of good butter. 

Cauliflower, with Dutch Sauce. 

Previous to cooking cauliflowers, they are divided, 
trimmed if large ; then they are boiled, either in salt wa- 
ter or steam, well drained and arranged in a dome-like 
fashion on a folded napkin. To give this dome a more 
regular shape, the cauliflowers can be placed beforehand 
in a dome-mould, and then turned out on the napkin. 

Cauliflowers generally are accompanied with either 
Dutch sauce, or butter sauce, or even with a good cream 
sauce. In Germany cauliflower is served with the same 



YEGETABLES 141 

sauce that is applied to asparagus; some bread crumbs 
fried in butter. For the preparation of this sauce, a half 
a pound of good butter is melted ; when warm, two hand- 
fuls of grated white bread crumf j are added to it, and a 
little salt. The preparation is boiled, and for three 
minutes stirred continually ; then the stewpan is removed 
ftnto a moderate fire. Five minutes afterward the sauce 
may be served. 

Asparagus Heads, a La Duchesse. 
In this case the asparagus stalks are selected of equal 
length, scraped at the lower ends ; then from the tender 
part pieces one to l^/^ inches long are cut off. The aspara- 
gus is boiled in salt water or steam on a brisk fire, and 
done to the moment. "When well drained, they are placed 
in a flat stewpan, with good butter, then seasoned, and 
moistened with a little good sauce, such as Bechamel. 
Then they are taken off the fire, and bound with a prep- 
aration of a few yolks of eggs, finished with a piece of 
butter. "When dished up, they are surrounded with a gar- 
nish of Brussels sprouts, baked without sugar; which, 
when taken out of the oven, have to be sprinkled with a 
little Parmesan. 

Truffles in Napkin (a La Serviette.) 
This is a dish, simple as well as rich, one of those pro- 
ducing the highest effect imaginable. However indiffer- 
ent a man may be to the charms of gastronomy ; yet the 
beautiful appearance, as well as the fine perfume, of a 
dish of truffles, will always rouse his imagination. 

Truffles must be selected fresh, perfumed and aro- 
matic, but above all of good origin. Those of Perigord 
are the most valuable, as no other part of the world pro- 
duces finer or better. It is a pity they are so very 
scarce ; and that not everybody is able to distinguish the 



142 VEGETABLES 

genuine species from those that are brought to market; 
which for the most part are gathered very far indeed 
from that land so. richly favored. 

If truffles are to be served whole, it is a matter of 
course that the finest and largest must be chosen. When 
well brushed, well cleaned (not peeled), they are placed 
in a stewpan, moistened to half their height with good 
stock with white wine, Madeira, or champagne ; the choice 
of one of these being merely a matter of taste. The 
great point is to cook the truffles at the moment of serv- 
ing; the stewpan must be kept covered, and shut her- 
metically, so that they be cooked judiciously; that is, 
they must have time enough to be jast penetrated, with- 
out getting dry. The inner pulp of the truffle must be 
tender, soft, and aromatic; if cooked too long, all these 
fine qualities are lost. The largest truffles will take eight 
or nine minutes; for middle-sized, seven minutes will do. 
Truffles cooked to excess not only lose their good quali- 
ties, but are apt to shrivel up, and get out of shape. - 

A nice way to serve is to dish the truffles in the hollow 
of a folded jaapkin. The following is the mode of pro- 
ceeding : 

A fine damask napkin is spread entirely unfolded over 
a large table, thus forming an exact square. The four 
corners are taken up, folded over, and brought together 
in the middle; this proceeding is repeated three times 
more ; then the left hand first is laid on the center of the 
napkin, and with the right hand the edges are folded over, 
and kept straight upright ; the napkin is placed on a dish, 
and its hollow filled with any mould at hand ; which later 
is filled with the truffles. 

Butter Beans. 

With a knife, cut off the ends of pods and strings from 
both sides, being very careful to remove every shred; cut 
every bean lengthwise, in two or three strips, and leave 



VEGETABLES 143 

Aiem for half an hour in cold water. Much more than 
cover them with boiling water ; boil till perfectly tender. 
It is well to allow three hours for boiling. Drain well, re- 
turn to kettle, and add a dressing of half a gill of cream, 
one and a half ounces of butter, one even teaspoon of salt, 
and half a teaspoon of pepper. This is sufficient for a 
quart of cooked beans. 

Mashed Squash. 
Peel, seed and slice fresh summer squashes. Lay in 
cold water ten minutes; put into boiling water, a little 
salt, and cook tender. Twenty minutes will suffice if the 
squash be young. Mash in a colander, pressing out all 
the water; heap in a deep dish, seasoning with pepper, 
salt and butter. Serve hot. 

Baked Squash. 
Cut in pieces, scrape well, bake from one to one and a 
half hours, according to the thickness of the squash; to 
be eaten with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

Fried Squash. 
Cut the squash into thin slices, and sprinkle with salt ; 
let it stand a few moments ; then beat two eggs, and dip 
the squash into the egg ; then fry it brown in butter. 

Pilaff. 
Two cups of water, one cup of rice. Put on the water 
with a little salt, and add the juice of one or two tomatoes 
to the water, or sufficient to color it. When the water 
boils, put in the rice, and boil until all the water is soaked 
up. Then add melted butter to taste, stir, cover and keep 
in a warm place, but not on the fire, till dinner is served. 

To Preserve Vegetables for Winter Use. 

Green string beans must be picked when young; put a 
layer three inches deep in a small wooden keg or barrel; 



144 VEGETABLES 

sprinkle in salt an inch deep, then put another layer of 
beans, then salt, and beans and salt in alternate layers, un- 
til you have enough ; let the last be salt ; cover them with 
a piece of board which will fit the inside of the barrel or 
"keg, and place a heavy weight upon it; they will make 
brine. 

When wanted for use, soak them one night or more, in 
plenty of water, changing it once or twice, until the salt 
is out of them'; then cut them, and boil' the same as when 
fresh. 

Carrots, beans, beetroots, parsnips and potatoes keep- 
best in dry sand or earth in a cellar ; turnips keep best on 
a cellar bottom, or they may be kept the same as carrots, 
etc. Whatever earth remains about them when taken 
from the ground, should not be taken off. 

When sprouts come on potatoes or other vegetables, 
they should be carefully cut off. The young sprouts from 
turnips are sometimes served as a salad, or boiled tender 
in ^alt and water, and served with butter and pepper over. 

Celery may be kept all winter by setting it in boxes 
filled with earth; keep it in the cellar; it will grow and 
whiten in the dark. Leeks may also be kept in this way. 

Cabbage set out in earth, in a good cellar, wiU keep 
good and fresh all winter. Small close heads of cabbage 
may be kept many weeks by taking them before the frost 
comeSj and laying them on a stone floor ; this will whiten 
them, and make them tender. • " 

Store onions are to be strung, and hung in a dry, cold 
place. 




Yeast. 

Take one gallon of water and in it boil two handfuls of 
hops. Then add one pint of grated potato, strain through 
a colander, and when lukewarm add one cup of salt, one 
of sugar, one of yeast. Let it raise and in a few hours 
transfer to jugs and cork up tight. A teacupful of this 
will" make four loaves of bread. 

Railroad Yeast. 

Dissolve two cakes of yeast in a quart of warm water 
and let it raise. Boil twelve or fourteen good sized pota- 
toes, mash and mix in one-half teacupful of salt, one-half 
teacup of sugar; add one quart of cold water, and one of 
hot ; stir in the water in which the yeast cake was dis- 
solved, and let it rise. Use one pint of this yeast for every 
loaf of bread. 

Salt Rising. 
Take two teacupfuls of hot water and one of cold, put 
in a pitcher, or other deep vessel ; add one teaspoonful 

145 



146 BREAD AND CAKES 

of salt and one of soda; stir in enough flour to make a 
batter ; set in a kettle of warm water, cover closely until 
it rises. If kept warm it will rise in from four to six hours. 

Salt Rising Bread. 
Sift some flour in a broad pan, make' a cavity in the 
center, and stir in slowly a quart of boiling water. Cool 
and thin the scalded mass with a quart of milk; add a 
tablespoonful of salt, stir in the salt rising, cover with 
flour and set away to rise. When light, mix thoroughly, 
knead into loaves, put into baking pans and let it rise once 
more. "When light, bake in a moderate oven from thirty 
to forty minutes, according to the size of the loaves. 

Home Made Bread. 

Peel, boil and mash six or eight medium-sized potatoes ; 
add a quart of water, strain through a colander and add 
enough flour to make a batter, and beat for two or three 
minutes ; mix in thoroughly a tablespoonful of salt and a 
cupful of home-made yeast, or a cake of compressed yeast, 
cover, and set away in a warm place to rise. When light, 
knead in enough flour so that the dough will not stick to 
the hands. Let it rise once more, and when light shape 
into loaves with as little kneading .as possible; put into 
baking pans and when light, bake from three-quarters to 
one hour in a moderate oven. 

Brown Bread. 

One cupful of sponge, one of wheat flour, two cups of 
Graham, one of syrup, one of milk, one good teaspoonful 
soda ; put in the baking tin to raise. This recipe makes 
one loaf. 

Corn Bread. 
Four large tablespoonfuls of cornmeal, two of flour, one 
of sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one egg, pinch 
of salt, butter size of walnut, sweet milk enough for soft 
batter. Bake. 



BREAD AND CAKES 147 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Put in a stirring bowl a pint of sour milk ; add a cupful 
of New Orleans molasses, two level teaspoonfuls of soda 
dissolved in a little hot water, and one of salt. Add two 
cups of corn meal and two of Graham flour; mix all 
thoroughly together, put in a tin pail that will not be 
more than half full when the mixture is in it ; cover tightly 
and boil for three hours; uncover, and place in the oven 
for ten or fifteen minutes to dry. 

Boston Brown Bread, No. 2. 

One pint Graham flour, one cupful sweet milk, one cup 
corn meal, one teaspoonful soda, one cup molasses, one 
teaspoonful salt, one cup sour milk ; steam three hours. 

Graham Bread. 
Take one quart of white bread sponge, add a scant half 
cupful of molasses, and half a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a little hot water. Stir in as much Graham flour 
as can be worked in with a spoon, put in a baking pan, let 
it rise, and when light bake for one-half hour in a moderate 
oyen. 

Graham Bread, No. 2. 

Two cupfuls buttermilk, i/^ cup molasses, one quart 
Graham flour, small teaspoonful soda; salt. 

Delicate Rolls. 
Take three pints of bread dougb, and work into it one 
cupful of butter, one-half cupful of sugar, and two eggs ; 
mix these into the dough, and if the dough is too soft 
and sticky, add more flour, and set in a warm place to rise. 
When light, flour the bread board, turn out the dough, 
dust with flour, and cut into pieces the size of an English 
walnut. Grease or flour a large sized baking pan, work 
each roll smooth, and place in the baking pan in rows ; set 



148 BEEAD AND CAKES 

away to risf , and when light bake twenty minutes. When 
baked, brush with sweet cream. These are nice either 
hot or cold. 

French Bread (Fine), 

Take % pound of rice and tie up in a thick linen rag, 
giving room enough for it to swell ; boil from three to four 
hours till it becomes a perfect paste, mix while warm with 
seven pounds of flour, adding the usual quantity of yeast, 
salt and water. Allow the dough to work a proper time, 
near the fire, then divide into loaves, dust in and knead 
vigorously. This quantity will make about 13i^ pounds 
of very nutritious bread. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Scald one quart of milk, and add to it one-half cupful 
each of sugar and butter, and one teaspoonful of salt ; stir 
in enough flour to make a batter as thick as for pancakes. 
Lef it cool, and when lukewarm stir in a half cupful of 
yeast or one cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in a little 
warm water. Set in a warm place to rise, and when very 
light add flour and knead into a dough, not too stiff, flatten 
with a roUing pin, and cut into cakes, about an inch thick, 
with a biscuit cutter. Roll out each cake separately, 
spread with butter, fold double, and let rise again, and 
bake for twenty-five minutes. 

Breakfast Rolls. 

Take a quart of ordinary light bread dough and work 
into it one teacupful of lard, cut into small bits, knead for 
five minutes, and set away to rise. "When light, flour the 
bread board, lift the dough upon it, cut the dough into 
pieces the size of a small egg; knead each into a small 
loaf, place in a baking pan in rows, just touching each 
other, let rise, and when very light bake twenty minutes. 



BREAD AND CAKES 14d 

Breakfast Rolls, No. 2. 
One pint dough, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, one 
teaspoonful sugar one egg. 

German Puffs. 
One pint milk, six eggs, one cupful butter flour enough 
to make a thin batter, two large teaspoon, uls of cream 
of tartar, one teaspoonful soda; bake in tea cups. To 
make one dozen. 

Graham Gems No. 1. 

Take one pint of sour milk, add to it two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, one of melted butter, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and one of soda; stir in enough Graham flour to make a 
very thick batter. Have the gem pans hot, and put a 
spoonful of the batter in each pan and bake for twenty 
minutes in a brisk oven. 

Graham Gems No. 2. 

Beat two eggs, add one-half cupful of sugar, one of 
milk, two of Graham flour, one of wheat flour, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der ; stir all thoroughly together and bake for twenty to 
twenty-flve minutes. 

Com Gems. 
Take two cupfuls of cornmeal, two of flour, two of sweet 
milk, one-half cupful of butter, one-half cupful of sugar, 
two eggs, and three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat 
the eggs, butter and sugar together, add the milk, then 
the meal and flour, and last of all, the baking powder ; stir 
for five minutes and bake in gem pans. 

Very Good Muflans. 

One quart of flour sifted twice with two heaping tea- 
spoons of baking powder; add three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, a piece of butter half the size of an egg; one 



150 BREAD AND CAKES 

beaten egg and one teaeupful of sweet milk ; beat quickly 
to a batter and bake in a quick oven. Have the tins warm. 

English Muffins. 

One quart of milk ; one ounce of yeast ; six ounces of 
sugar ; six ounces of butter ; four eggs, salt, nutmeg ; floiir 
enough to make a soft dough. 

Quick Muffins. 
Beat three eggs, add one pint of sour cream, one pint of 
flour, a pinch of salt, and one teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in a little warm water; beat until very light and 
bake in muffin rings or gem pans. 

Corn Meal Muffins. 
Tablespoonful of butter, tablespoonful of sugar, li/^ 
cupfuls milk, one egg, two cups flour, 14 cup corn meal, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, little salt. Excellent 
for breakfast. Serve hot. 

Tea Rusks. 

One pint of milk, one cupful of butter, 2^/^ cups sugar, 
three eggs, one nutmeg, one cupful yeast ; make a sponge 
of half the milk at noon, at night mix all together and set 
to rise ; in the morning, knead out ; keep the dough in a 
warm place. 

White Muffins. 
Take one teaeupful of milk, add two beaten eggs, one 
half cupful of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, then sift in three teacupfuls of flour, to which has 
been added three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Stir 
all together, beat for three iminutes, and bake in a quick 
oven in muffin rings or gem pans. 

Ginger Snaps. 
One cupful sugar, ^ cup butter, % cup drippings, two 
cups New Orleans molasses, two teaspoonfuls soda,, one 



BREAD AND CAKES IC-i 

tablespoonful ginger. Mix with flour as soft as can be 
rolled and set away over night. In morning, roll out 
thin, using as little flour as possible, cut In squares and 
bake. 

Ginger Drops. 
One cupful lard, one cup brown sugar, one cup molas- 
ses, one cup warm water with two teaspoonfuls soda, four 
cups flour. Spice to taste, drop on buttered pans and 
bake. 

Sally Liinn. 
Beat two eggs, and add a lump of soft butter the size 
of an egg, put in three teaspoonfuls of sugar, one-half 
pint of milk, one pint of flour, and sift in three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder ; stir all together, and bake in shal- 
low tins for twenty minutes. 

Soft Gingerbread. 
One cupful of sugar, one of butter, one of sour milk, 
two eggs, one cupful molasses, four cups sifted flour, 
tablespoonful ginger ; two teaspoonfuls of soda, dissolved 
in a little water; add grated lemon juice. 

Mother's Gingerbread. 

One egg, butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful gingei 
(heaping), one teaspoonful baking soda, one cupful mo- 
lasses, one cup boiling water, one cup (heaping) flour, 
pinch of salt, 1/3 grated rind of lemon. 

Steamed Corn Bread. 
Take two cups of sweet milk, one of sour, and add to 
it two cupfuls of "com meal, one of flour, one of sugar, 
and one teaspoonful of soda, dissolve in a little warm 
water. Steam for two hours. 



152 BREAD AND CAKES 

Baking Powder Biscuits. 

Put one quart of flour in a sieve, add to it two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of good baking powder; sift and rub in one 
tablespoonful of lard or butter ; add a teaspoonful of salt 
and moisten with a pint of milk or water. Knead quickly, 
roll and cut into cakes and bake in. a quick oven for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Serve hot. . 

Busks. 

Beat two eggs, add one-half cupful of sugar, three 

tablespoonfuls of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, three 

of flour,; and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Stir all 

together, bake in shallow buttered tins in a quick oven. 

Fritters. 

Take two beaten eggs, one pint of sweet milk, butter 
the size of an egg, and two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der ; mix with flpur, as stiff as you can stir with a spoon. 
Drop small spoonfuls into boiling hot lard, fry to a nice 
brown. 

Waldorf Soda Biscuit. 

Take one quart flour, add % teaspoonful baking-powder 
and one scant teaspoonful salt; sift; rub in one table- 
spoonful lard. Dissolve % teaspoonful soda in a little 
hot water, and while foaming stir into cup of sour milk or 
buttermilk and mix with the flour to make a moderately 
stiff dough. Roll out, cut into shape with cutter, and 
bake in quick oven. Excellent hot or cold. 

Albany Breakfast Cak6s. 

Take ten eggs, beat for three minutes, add one-half cup- 
ful of melted butter, three pints of warm milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, one of soda dissolved in a little hot wa- 
ter. Make a thick batter with white Indian meal; pour 
to the depth of an inch into biittered tins, and bake in a 
quick oven from thirty to fortj^ minutes. 



BREAD AND CAKES 153 

Fried Cakes. 
Beat one egg, add one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful 
of cream, and one and one-half cupfuls of sour milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little warm water, grate 
in half a nutmeg, mix in enough flour to make a soft 
dough, cut in bars an inch wide and half an inch thick, 
twist and fry in hot lard. 

Fried Cakes, No. 2. 

Two eggs, six tablespoonfuls sugar, six of melted but- 
ter, one teacupful sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, and flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Spider Corn Cakes. 
Beat two eggs, and one-half cup of sugar, two cups of 
sweet milk, and one of sour, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, and one and one-third cupfuls of corn meal, 
one third of a cupful of flour, and one teaspoonful of soda ; 
mix all the ingredients together, heat a spider hot, 
greasing well, pour in the mixture, and bake in a hot oven 
from twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

Margaret Kivlan Pan Cakes. 
Take four cupfuls Swansdown flour, one pint milk, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder, a pinch of salt, three 
eggs. 

Flannel Cakes. 
Take two eggs and stir them into a pint of sour milk, 
put in an even teaspoonful of soda and flour enough to 
make a thin batter. Bake on a hot greased griddle. 

Graham Griddle Cakes. 

Mix together one pint of Grabam flour, one-half pint of 
com meal, one-half pint of flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
molasses, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one egg, one pint 
of buttermilk, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake on a well 
greased hot griddle. 



154 BREAD AND CAKES 

Green Com Griddle Cakes. 

Six ears of green corn, grated ; stir in two eggs, one pint 
of milk, one pint of flour, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, a little salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Beat well and bake on a hot griddle. 

Waffles. 

Take one pint of sour milk, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, three eggs, beaten separately, a teaspoonful 
of soda, dissolved in a little warm water, add a little salt, 
and stir in enough flour to make a stiff batter. Bake 
upon wafHe irons. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Three-quarter cupful butter, three eggs (whites), one 
teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one pint milk. At night 
make sponge with milk; l^ yeast cake or i^ cupful soft 
yeast and the sugar next morning. Add_ butter melted 
and whites of eggs. Mould and let rise, when light cut in 
small round cakes. Set in warm place and when light, 
fry in hot lard. Roll in powdered sugar. 

Pop-Overs. 

Take one pint of sifted flour, one level teaspoonful of 
salt. Bdat three eggs light, add one pint of milk, and 
gradually stir into the flour mixture; beat six minutes 
after all are together ; put into gem pans, and bake from 
twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Bread Griddle Cakes. 
Soak a pint of stale bread in a pint of sour milk over 
night. In the morning mash fine with a spoon; add an- 
other pint of milk, a little salt, two teaspoonfuls of soda 
dissolved in a little water, and flour enough to make a 
batter as' thick as for ordinary griddle cakes. 



BREAD AND CAKES 155 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
Take one pint of buttermilk, one pint of water, one-half 
cake of yeast, a little salt, and stir in' enough buckwheat 
flour to make a batter; let it rise over night, and in the 
morning add two tablespoonfuls of molasses, and a tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in a little water. Bake on a 
hot griddle well greased. Serve with maple syrup or 
honey. 

Toast. 
Cut stale bread into slices, toast to a nice brown; but- 
ter, set in the oven for a moment, and serve hot. 

Cream Toast. 

Take one quart of milk, add a lump of butter the size of 
ah egg, a level teaspoonful of salt ; put in a double heater, 
and let it come to a boil. When boiling hot stir in a table- 
spoonful of flour, wet with a little milk. Place the toasted 
bread ia a deep dish, pour the cream over it, and serve 
at once, 

Spanish Toast. 
Beat two eggs, add one cup of milk, a teaspoonful of 
flour, and a little salt ; dip slices of bread in the mixture, 
and fry to a nice brown in hot lard or drippings. Sift 
powdered sugar on each slice, and serve hot. 

Vienna Bolls. 

Sift one quart of flour two or three times, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and half a teaspoonful of 
salt; work in one tablespoonful of butter; add one pint 
of milk, stirring into a dough of the usual consistency; 
roll to the thickness of half an inch, cut into circular 
forms and fold over once, moistening a little between the 
folds, if necessary, to make them stick ; butter the baking- 
pan well, and do not let the rolls touch each other when 
placed thereon ; moisten the tops of the rolls with a littlp 
milk, or butter melted in milk, and bake in a hot oven. 



156 BREAB AND CAKES 

Chicago Muffins. 
Mix together one and one-half pints of flour, half a pint 
of corn meal, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, and one teaspoonful of salt. Work 
in one tablespoonful of butter; heat, and add three eggs, 
and one pint of milk, and beat the whole quickly in a firm 
batter. Have the griddle hot and well greased to re- 
ceive the muffin rings and cook to a nice brown. Muffin 
rings should not, as a rule, be filled to more than half of 
their capacity, and as soon as the batter rises to the top 
the muffin is generally ready to be turned. 

Jolly Boys. 

Mix together thoroughly while dry one and one-half 
pints of rye meal, half a pint of flour, half a teacupful of 
corn meal, two pinches of cinnamon, a little salt, and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add one egg, well 
beaten; two tablespoonfuls each of molasses and sugar, 
and cold water enough to make a thick batter. Fry in 
hot lard a heaping tablespoonful at a time, and cook until 
well browned. 

Crullers. 

Mix in stirring bowl one cupful sugar and ^4 cupful 
butter, then add one cupful of sweet milk, one beaten egg, 
two tablespoonfuls of baking powder, a little ground nut- 
meg and enough flour to make dough that can be rolled ; 
cut with cruller cutter and fry in ho,t lard. If too much 
fat is absorbed in frying, mix in little more flour. 

Cream Crullers. 
One and two-thirds cupfuls flne granulated sugar, two 
scant cupfuls sweet cream, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder and flour enough to roll out. Cut with cruller 
cutter and fry in hot lard. 




Rich Bride or Christening Cake. 

Needed : Five pounds of the finest flour, three pounds 
of fresh butter, five pounds of currants, two pounds of 
sifted loaf sugar, two nutmegs, % ounce of mace, i/4 ounce 
of cloves, sixteen eggs, one pound of sweet almonds, I/2 
pound of candied citron, % pound each of candied orange 
and lemon peel, one gill of wine, one gill of brandy. Let 
the flour be as fine as possible, and well dried and sifted 
the currants washed, picked and dried before the fire 
the sugar well pounded and sifted; the nutmegs grated 
the spices pounded; the eggs thoroughly whisKed. 
whites and yolks separately; the almonds pounded with 
a little orange-flower water; and the candied peel cut 
in neat slices. When all these ingredients are prepared, 
mix them in the following manner: Begin working the 
butter with the hand till it becomes of a cream-like 
consistency; stir in the sugar, and when the whites of 
the eggs are "Whisked to a solid froth, mix them with 
the butter and sugar; next, beat the yolks up well for 
ten minutes, and adding them to the flour, nutmegs, 



157 



158 CAKE 

mace and cloves, continue beating the whcle together for 
half an hour or longer, till wanted for the oven. Then 
mix in lightly the currants, almonds and candied peel, 
with the wine and brandy ; and having lined a hoop with 
buttered paper, fill it with the mixture, and bake the cake 
in a tolerably quick oven, taking care, however, not to 
burn it ; to prevent this, the top of it may be covered with 
a sheet of paper, To ascertain whether the cake is done, 
plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, withdraw it 
directly, and if the blade is not sticky and looks bright, 
the cake is sufficiently baked; These cakes are usually 
spread with a thick layer of almond icing, and over that 
another layer of sugar icing, and afterward ornamented. 
In baking, a large cake like this, great attention must be 
paid to the heat of the oven; it should not be too fierce, 
but have moderate heat to bake the cake through. 

Fruit Cake. 
Take three cupfuls of brown sugar, one of butter, one 
pound of raisins, one of currants, one-half pound of citron, 
one quart of flour, one teaspoonful of currant jelly, eight 
eggs beaten separately, two teaspoonfuls of sour milk 
one teaspoonful of soda, a piece of lard the size of a wal- 
nut, one tablespoonful of ground cloves, one of cinnamon, 
and two grated nutmegs. Stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream, then stir in the milk, lard, jelly and spices, then 
stir in the fruit (the raisins must be stoned and cut in 
two, the currants picked, washed and dried, and the citron 
shaved fine), then the soda dissolved in a little water, next 
the flour, and last of all the beaten whites of the eggs; 
mix all thoroughly together, and bake for three hours in 
pans lined with buttered paper. 

Fruit Cake No. 2. 
Beat together four cupfuls of sugar, with one and one- 
half cupfuls of butter, then stir in six beaten eggs, two 



CAKE 159 

cupfuls of sweet milk, one pound of stoned and chopped 
raisins, one pound of chopped or sliced citron, six and 
one-half cupfuls of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of soda, 
dissolved in a little warm water ; line the baking pans with 
buttered paper and bake from two to three hours. 

Fruit Cake, No. 3. 
One pound sugar, one pound flour, % butter, eight 
eggs, one teacupful buttermilk, one teaspoonful soda, two 
pounds raisins, two of currants, % citron and spices. 

Eva's Fruit Cake. 
One cupful butter, one cupful brown sugar, five eggs, 
one cupful molasses, three cupfuls flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, spices of all kinds, one teaspoonful, 
1% pounds raisins, 1% pounds currants, % pound citron. 

Delicious Banana Filling. 
Cook together one cupful sifted peeled bananas passed 
through a sieve, the juice of % lemon or an orange, % 
cupful sugar and one tablespoonful butter; when thick 
and cold spread upon the cake. Or heat the ingredients in 
a double boiler and then stir in an egg beaten with a table- 
spoonful of sugar; cook and stir until thickened, then 
cool and use as above. 

Pork Cake. 

Chop one pound of fat pork very fine, and pour over it 
a pint of boiling hot water, then stir in three cupfuls of 
brown sugar, one of molasses, one tablespoonful of ground 
cinnamon, one of ground cloves, one pound of stoned rai- 
sins, eight cups of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of soda dis- 
solved in a little water ; stir four or five minutes and bake 
same as fruit cake. 

Clove Cake. 

Stir together one cup of soft butter with one of sugar 
and molasses, add one cupful of strong black coffee, in 



].60 CAKE 

which has been dissolved a teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls of ground cloves, two of ' cinnamon, four cup- 
fuls of flour, and two well beaten eggs; mix well, and 
balce in a moderate oven. 

Bread Cake. 

Beat together one cupful of butter with two of sugar, 
add two well beaten eggs, two cupfuls of stoned raisins, 
two-thirds teaspoonful of soda in one of milk, and last of 
all stir in three cupfuls of light bread dough ; work until 
thoroughly mixed, line a baking pan with buttered paper, 
put in' the dough, set in a warm place to rise, and when 
light bake in a moderate oven for an hour or more. 

Bread Cake, No. 2. 

Two teacupfuls bread dough, % teacupful' butter, l^/^ 
teacupfuls brown sugar; one teacupful chopped raisins, 
two eggs, teaspoonful soda. Spices to taste. 

Cup Cake. 

One teacupful btitter, two teacups sugar, two teacups 
flour, four eggs, 2/3 cup new milk, three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. 

Watermelon Cake. 

For the white part, stir to a cream two cupfuls of sugar, 
with one of butter ; then stir in one cupful of sweet milk ; 
mix two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, and one of soda 
with three and one-half cupfuls of flour; stir in with the 
other ingredients; t'hen add the beaten whites of eight 
eggs. For the red part : One cupful of red sugar, and one- 
half cupful of butter, stirred to a cream, add one-third 
cupful of sweet milk, two cupfuls of flour, in which has 
been mixed one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and a half 
teaspoonful of soda ; then the beaten whites of four eggs, 
and a cupful of small seedless raisins. Have an oval, or 
round baking pan, put a layer of the white dough in the 



CAKE 161 

bottom, then all the red in the middle, and the rest of the 
white dough around the sides and on top ; bake in a mod- 
erate oven. A baking pan with a tube may be used if 
preferable. 

Andalusian Cake. 

Beat three eggs for five or six minutes ; add a cupful of 
fine granulated sugar, and beat two or three minutes 
longer ; then stir in one cupful of flour, a teaspoonful of 
baking powder and to suit the taste; bake at once in a 
quick oven. 

Cinnamon Cake. 

Take four eggs, one cupful pulverized sugar, one cupful 
sifted flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, % cup water ; 
to the yolks and sugar, add first flour then water, lastly 
whites. Bake in a long pan, turn upside down, spread 
with butter, sprinkle sugar, cinnamon. 

Raisin Cake. 

Beat together one cupful of butter, with two of sugar, 
add a cupful of molasses, three well beaten eggs, one cup- 
ful of buttermilk, one of stoned raisins, five of flour, one 
and one-half .teaspoonfuls of soda, two of cinnamon, two 
of cloves, one grated nutmeg, stir well together and bake 
same as fruit c^e. 

French Loaf. 

Take one pound of sugar and % pound of butter, and 
stir to a cream; add one lemon" chopped fine; then add 
yolks of eight eggs, and mix well ; add one pound of rai- 
sins, one gill of wine or brandy, and one nutmeg; add 
whites of eggs, and then one pound of flour. Stir as little 
as possible after adding flour. 



162 CAKE 

Bernhart French Loaf. 

Take one pound flour, one pound sugar, % pound bTit- 
ter, one pound raisins, eight eggs, one nutraeg, one lemon, 
chopped fine, one gill wine or brandy. Stir butter and 
sugar to a cream, add lemon, then, yolks of eg^s, mix well, 
add raisins, wine and nutmeg, then whites of eggs, then 
flour. Stir as little as possible after flour is in. 

Wedding Cake. 

(The Author's Favorite Recipe.) 

Take V^ pound flour and % pound butter, % pound 
sugar, one dozen eggs, two pounds raisins, three pounds 
currants, one pound citron, % ounce mace, % ounce cin- 
namon, 1/^ ounce nutmeg, i/4 ounce cloves, % pint brandy. 
Beat the batter to cream ; then beat the sugar into the but- 
ter, add the froth of the yolks of the eggs, after being well 
beaten, then the froth of the whites, mix fruit, spice and 
flour together, then add in and bake five or six hours. 

Measured Pound Cake. 

Pour eupfuls of flour, three of sugar, two of btitter, one 
and one-half of sweet milk, nine eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder; beat the butter and sugar together, 
stir in the milk, then the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, 
next sift, in the flour and baking powder together, and 
last of all stir in the whites, beaten to a ^iff froth. Bake 
in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes. 

Tipsy Cake. 

Moisten any kind of plain cak? with wine, cover it with 
rich boiled custard and top it with an unbaked meringue 
with eggs beaten stiff, and a little sugar. Sift a little 
grated coeoanut over it and serve. This is an easily pre- 
pared dainty dessert. 



CAKE 163 

French Cake. 
Beat three eggs and one and one-half cupfuls of sugar 
to a cream, add one-half cupful of soft butter, and beat 
from three to five minutes longer, put in a cupful of sweet 
milk and beat again, measure off three cupfuls of flour 
and add to it two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and one 
of soda, sift twice and add in two parts to the mixture, 
stirring in thoroughly each time, line a round baking pan 
with buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven. A nice 
addition to this cake is a large cupful of nut meats or two 
cupfuls of raisins or currants. This cake is fully as good 
if made two or three days before using. 

St. John's Fruit Cake. 
Take % pound citron, two lemons (juice and grated 
rind), eight eggs, two pounds flour, two pounds raisins, 
two pounds brown sugar, one pound butter, one pound 
currants, one pint home-made yeast, one cupful molasses, 
one teaspoonful soda, ^ pint brandy, one grated nutmeg, 
one tablespoonful each of ground cinnamon and cloves. 
Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs together, stir 
the soda into the molasses well, then put in the lemon, 
spice, brandy and yeast, then the fruit and flour, lastly 
the whites of the eggs ; then put in pans to be baked ; let it 
raise over night. Baked in a moderate oven. 

Black Cake. (Very rich.) 

Stir together a pound of sugar and a pound of butter 
for fifteen minutes, then stir in two wineglassfuls of 
brandy and two of wine, then beat in the beaten yolks of 
twelve eggs ; put in two wineglassfuls of sour cream, one 
teaspoonful of soda, four grated nutmegs, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one of mace, one of clove, three pounds 
of raisins, stoned and chopped, three pounds of currants, 
washed and dried ; three pounds of citron or two of citron, 
and Ys pound each of orange and lemon peel; when 



164 - CAKE 

ithese are well mixed in, stir in a pound of flour, and last 
of all the beaten whites of twelve eggs. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven for about four hours. This cake is very rich; 
is nice enough for any entertainment, and will keep for 
months. It should be made at least two or three weeks 
before using. 

Apple Cake. 

Stir together one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, with a 
large half cupful of butter ; add two eggs, the whites and 
yolks beaten separately, one-half cupful of sweet milk, 
two cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
sifted in the flour, and a half teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in the milk. Put in jelly-cake tins, cover the top 
with sliced apples and bake ; when done put a little melted 
butter, or thick whipped cream on the apple, sift pow- 
dered sugar over all, and serve at once. 

Mrs. Wells' Gingerbread, 

One cupful molasses, two tablespoonfuls butter rubbed 
with molasses, one cupful boiling water, one heaping tea- 
spoonful soda, dissolved in water (let it cool before add- 
ing to the molasses), three cupfuls flour, one teaspoonful 
ginger. 

Spice Cake. 

Stir for five minutes two cupfuls of sugar with one of 
soft butter, add four beaten eggs, and stir for five minutes 
longer, then mix a cupful of sweet milk, a grated nutmeg, 
a tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of mace, one of clove; 
measure three cupfuls of flour and mix with it two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar and one of soda ; sift twice and 
stir in with the rest of the ingredients. Bake from forty 
to sixty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Spice Cake No. 2. 
Mix two cupfuls of sugar, with two-thirds of a cupful 
of butter, add three beaten eggs, a cupful of sour or but- 



CAKE 165 

termilk in which has been dissolved a teaspoonful of soda 
and three and one-half cupfuls of flour; add spices to 
taste. Bake in shallow square tins ; when done cover with 
the yolk of an egg, beaten with powdered sugar. Cut in 
squares to serve. 

Dried Apple Cake. 

Soak three cups of dried apples over night in warm wa- 
ter. In the morning chop or cut them into small bits, put 
in a stewpan with two cupfuls of N. 0. molasses and sim- 
mer for two hours; add two beaten eggs, one cupful of 
sugar, one of milk, one-half cupful of butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda, spice to taste, and flour enough to make 
a stiff batter. Bake as you would fruit cake. 

Pound Cake. 
Put together a pound of sugar, and three-fourths of a 
pound of butter, and beat for ten minutes, add the beaten 
yolks of eight eggs ; mix three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der with a pound of flour. Put in with the sugar, butter 
and yolks a grated nutmeg, and part of the flour, and stir 
until smooth, then add the beaten whites of the eggs and 
the rest of the flour. Bake in a moderate, oven. 

Imperial Cake. 

Eub to a cream one pound of sugar, and three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, add ten well beaten eggs, a pound 
of flour, a pound of almonds, blanched, and cut fine ; one- 
half pound of stoned raisins, one-half pound of citron, 
sliced fine, rind and juice of a lemon, and one grated nut- 
meg. Mix all well together, and bake slowly. 

Wine Cake. 
Beat together two cupfuls of sugar, with one-half cup- 
ful of butter, and three eggs; add two cupfuls of sifted 
flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and one gill of 
wine. Mix into a firm batter, put in deep mould, and bake 
in a moderate oven. Frost. 



166 CAKE 

White Mountain Cake 

Two cupfuls sugar, 2/3 cup milk, whites of seven eggs, 
2/3 cup butter, two cups flour, one com starch, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; bake in jelly tins; frosting, 
whites three eggs and sugar, add some cocoanut and 
spread between layers. 

Josiah Allen's White Mountain Cake. 

One cupful butter, two cupfuls sugar, three cupfuls 
flour, four eggs, one cupful milk. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Sponge Cake. 
Stir together two cups of sugar, two and one-half cup- 
fuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. Wheja well 
mixed, stir in six well beaten eggs. Line a baking pan 
with buttered paper, pour in the dough and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

Sponge Cake No. 2. 

Take two cups of sugar and the yolks of eight eggs, and? 
stir together until light; then add the grated rind and 
juice of one lemon ; and then the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth ;' lastly, add two cups of sifted flour. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Almond Cake. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butte^ % cup of sweet 
milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
% teaspoonful soda, whites of eight eggs. 

White Sponge Cake. 

Stir together one and one-half tumblers of sugar, with 
one tumbler of flour and one teaspoonful of cream tartar. 
When these are thoroughly mixed, add the whites of ten 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Line a baking pan with but- 



CAKE 167 

tered paper, pour in the dough and bake in a moderate, 
oven. Be careful not to jar the cake while baking, as it 
will cause it to fall. 

White Sponge Cake, No. 2. 
"Whites of eleven eggs, 14 cupful sugar, one cupful flour, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar; i/^ teaspoonfal of rose 
flavoring. Sift flour four times, then measure; add the 
cream tartar and sift again. Sift sugar four times, then 
measure. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, then stir in 
sugar, and last, flour. Stir as little as possible. Bake in 
a two-quart basin for about an hour in a very moderate 
oven. •Do not butter the basin, but when done, turn 
bottom side up on a plate, stick two little bits of wood 
under each side to let the steam come out, let it stand an 
hour, then turn over and use a knife around the sides. 

White Sponge Cake, No. 3. 
Take 1% goblets pulverized sugar (six even cooking- 
spoonfuls), one goblet sifted flour, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, % teaspoonful salt, stir all together and sift into a 
dish. Beat the whites of ten eggs to a stiff froth, and stir 
in the flour carefully; flavor with l^ teaspoonful bitter 
almond or one teaspoonful lemon extract flavoring, put in 
the eggs, bake very slowly. 

Orange Cake. 

Three cupfuls sugar, one -of butter, one of milk, 2% of 
flour, yolks of nine eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder 
and rind and juice two oranges. 

Water Sponge Cake. 

Stir together one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt. 
When these are mixed stir in two well-beaten eggs and 
one-half cupful of boiling water ; bake in paper-lined tins 
in a moderate oven. 



168 CAKE 

The Bride's Sponge Cake. 

Take two cupfuls flour, two of sugar, eight eggs, one 
lemon. Stir sugar and yolks of eggs together until light ; 
then add grated rind and juice of lemon; then whites of 
eggs beaten to stiff froth, and lastly the sifted flour. 

Coffee Cake. 

Three cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of butter 
mixed together, add two cups of coffee, a teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in the coffee, % pound raisins chopped 
fine, flour enough to make it thick; spices to taste. 

Angel Food. 

One and one-fourth .cupfuls of powdered sugar, 8ne cup- 
ful of flour, one-half teaspoonful of cream tartar, whites 
of nine, large, or ten small eggs. Sift the flour four or 
five times before measuring. ~ Beat the whites two or three 
minutes, add the cream tartar, then beat them to a very 
stiff froth; add the sugar andwhen well beaten in, add 
the flour, and mix well. Line a baking pan with buttered 
paper, turn in the mixture and bake in a moderate oven, 
being careful not to jar the pan, as it will cause the cake 
to faU. 

Chocolate Caks. 
(Best of all.) 

Take whites eight eggs, two cupfuls sugar, one cupful 
butter, one cupful sweet milk, three cupfuls flour, three 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream, 
stir in the sugar and beat until light; add the milk, then 
the flour and beaten egg. When well beaten, divide into 
two equal parts; into half, grate a cake of sweet choco- 
late. Bake in layers, spread with custard, alternating the 
light and dark parts. 

Custard: One tablespoonful butter to one pint milk 
and let it come to a boil. Stir in two eggs beaten with 
one cupful sugar, add two teaspoonfuls «orn starch dis- 
solved in milk, one teaspoonful veinilH, 



CAKE 169 

Tip-Top Cake. 

Beat together one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, two 
eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one cupful of milk,i two 
and one-half cupfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder. Beat for three minutes, pour into a shal- 
low square tin and bake in a rather quick oven. 

Cream Cake. 
Beat together one cup of sugar and two eggs, then add 
one cupful of sweet cream, one and two-thirds cupfuls of 
flour and three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Stir all 
together and bake in a rather brisk oven. 

Cream Cake, No. 2. 

Cream: Take one pint" sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls 
corn starch, beaten with a little milk, add two eggs, when 
the milk boils stir in slowly one cupful sugar ; when near- 
ly done, add % cupful butter, two teaspoonfuls lemon 
extract. 

Cake: Three eggs, one cupful sugar, 1% cups flour, 
one teaspoonful baking powder, two tablespoonfuls cold 
water, cut the cakes while warm and spread the above. 

Cream Cake, No. 3. 

One cupful cream, two eggs, one cup sugar, two cups 
flour, a pinch of soda. 

Snow-Flake Cake. 

Mix together one and one-half tumblers of powdered 
sugar, one tumbler of flour, and half a teaspoonful of 
cream tartar. When they are well mixed, add the well- 
beaten whites of eight eggs. Bake as you would sponge 
cake. 

Cocoanut Cake. 
One nut grated fine, 2/3 cup butter, two cups sugar, 
14 fi"P sweet milk, ly^ cups flour, one teaspoonful bak' 



170 CAKE 

ing powder, the white of four eggs ; mix baking powder 
in the flour, rub the butter and sugar to a cream, then 
add milk. 

Gold Cake. 

. The yolks of eight eggs, one cupful sugar, one of flour, 
% cupful butter, % cup milk, two spoonfuls baking pow- 
der; flavor to taste. 

Grolden Cake. , 

Beat together one cupful of. butter with two cupfuls 
of sugar; add one cupful of milk and beat again. Then 
stir in two and one-half cupfuls of flour, the well-beaten 
yolks of six eggs, and three teaspoonfuls of baking- pow- 
der. Stir all together and bakfe in a loaf or layers. 

Golden Cake, No. 2. 

Yolks of twelve eggs, three cupfuls of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, II/2 cups cream or milk, 
three cups of flour, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, half 
a spoonful soda; flavor with lemon. 

Silver Cake. 

Beat together one cupful of butter with two cupfuls 6f 
sugar, two-thirds of a cup of milk, two and one-half cup- 
fuls of flour and three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Last of all, stir in the well-beaten whites of six eggs. 

These cakes can be combined by baking in layers and 
putting in one of golden, and one of silver, alternately, or 
they can be baked in a loaf and a marble effect produced 
by putting in alternately, spoonfuls of each. 

Silver Cake, No. 2. 
The whites of six eggs, two cupfuls sugar, % cup but- 
ter, three cups flour, % cupful milk, 3^^ .teaspoon f 9** 
baking powder ; flavor with lemon. 



CAKE 171 

Ladies' Cake. 

One coffeecupful white sugar, one teacupful of butter, 
one coffeecupful flour, whites of eight eggs; fla\or with 
bitter almonds. 

Soft Gingerbread. 
One cupful of molasses, y^ cup butter, one egg, % cup 
of sour milk, one teaspponful of soda, two teaspoonfuls 
of ginger, flour. 

Soft Ginger Bread, No. 2. 

Butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful ginger, one tea- 
spoonful soda, one cupful inolasses, one heaping cupful 
flour, one cupful boiling water and a little salt. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 
Take a teacup and put into it four tablespoonfuls of 
hot water, three of melted butter, and tfU up the ciip with 
molasses. Put into the stirring bowl one teaspoonful of 
ginger and one of soda, and to this add the mixture in 
the cup. Stir in enough flour to make a stiff cake dough. 
Pour into square tins and bake carefully. 

Molasses Cake. 

Put together two cupfuls of molasses, two of brown 
sugar, one of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup- 
ful of butter, two beaten eggs, five and one-quarter cup- 
fuls of flour. Beat all together, line a dripping-pan with 
buttered paper, and -put in the dough. Sift white sugar 
over the top before baking and bake in a slow oven. This 
is excellent and will keep for weeks. 

White Cake. 
Beat together one cupful of granulated sugar with' one- 
fourth of a cupful of butter ; beat for ten minutes, then 
add one-half cupful of sweet milk and one and one-half 



172 CAKE 

cupfuls of flour ; last of all, stir in the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a froth, and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake slowly. 

White Cake, No. 2. 
"Whites of eight eggs, two cupfuls sugar, 2% cups flour, 
one teaspoonful cream of tartar, % cupful milk, i^ tea- 
spoonful soda, 1% cups butter; flavor to taste. 

Delicate Cake. 
Beat to a cream one-half cupful of butter, one and one- 
half cupfuls of sugar ; then add one cupful of milk, three 
of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder and the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a froth. Bake in two lay- 
ers. Put frosting between and on top. 

Delicate Cake, No. 2. 

One cupful white sugar, % cup butter, two cups flour; 
% cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, % tea- 
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful lemon, whites of four 
eggs; beat to a stiff froth. 

White Cream Cake. 

Stir together two cupfuls of white ■ sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one teacupful of sour cream, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. When these are well mixed, stir in three 
cupfuls of flour. Last of all, add the well-beaten whites 
of eight eggs. Bake in shallow baking pans in a moderate 
oven. 

Cold Water Pound Cake. 

Beat together three eggs and one and' one-half cupfuls 
of sugar; add one-half cupful of -soft butter, one-half cup- 
ful of cold water, two cupfuls of flour, and two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Stir all together, flavor with 
lemon, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Dollie's Chocolate Cake. 

One cupful butter, four cxips light broMTi sugar, three 
cups flour, one cup milk, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls 



CAKE 173 

cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda, 2/3 cake chocolate, 
one cupful Avater and vanilla if desired. 

Lizzie Gordon's Wedding Cake. 

Take one pound butter, one pound sugar, brown or 
white, nine eggs, three pounds raisins, two pounds cur- 
rants, % pound citron, one tablespoonful cloves, cinnamon 
and allspice ground, one cupful N. 0. molasses, one tea- 
spoonful soda in % cupful sour milk, 3^^ cupfuls flour 
with a little baking powder, one wine glassful brandy, 
flavor with lemon. Beat eggs separately, mix the spices 
in a cup, stir well without beating all the ingredients ex- 
cepting flour and fruit, then add a small quantity of each 
kind of fruit ; then in a pan greased with lard, place a well 
buttered paper, put in a layer of fruit and cake alter- 
nately, bake in oven of even temperature four hours, or 
not less than three. Better a year after it is made. 

Loaf Cake. 
Beat three cupfuls of sugar together with one-half cup- 
ful of butter; add six beaten eggs and four cupfuls of 
light bread dough. Mix well together, put in a pan lined 
with buttered paper and set in a warm place to rise. When 
light, bake in a moderate oven as you would bread. 

Loaf Cake, No. 2. ' 
Take three cupfuls light dough, one cupful butter, two 
cupfuls sugar, three eggs, one cupful flour, one pound 
raisins, one teaspoonful ground cloves, three teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon, two nutmegs, three tablespoonfuls brandy, or 
% cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful cream tatar, % tea- 
spoonful soda ; let it raise ; bake slowly. 

Baised Cake. 
Take two cups, of dough and stir into two cups of sugar, 
two-thirds of a cup of butter, three eggs, and a small tea- 
spoonful of soda. When thoroughly mixed, put in two 



174 CAKE 

shallow bakingpans, set in a warm place to rise. When 
light, bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. 

Cream Cookies. 

Two eupfuls sugar, two eggs, one cup sour cream, one 
scant cup butter, one scant teaspoonful soda stirred in 
the cream, nutmeg, salt ; mix very soft. Cream together 
butter, sugar, nutmeg and salt, eggs, then the cream and 
soda. Moderate oven. 

Marble Cake. 

White part: Stir together one and one-half eupfuls of 
sugar and one-half cupful of butter ; then add one cupful 
of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, and two eupfuls of flour; last of all, 
stir in the well-b,eaten whites of four eggs. 

Dark part: Stir together one cupful of brown sugar, 
one-half cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of soft butter, 
the beaten yolks of four eggs, one-half cupful of milk, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
two of cinnamon, and grate in half a nutmeg ; then stir in 
two eupfuls of flour. Line the bakingpan with buttered 
paper and put in alternately, spoonfuls of the light and 
dark mixtures. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Marble Cup Cake, No. 2. 

Take yolks of seven eggs, one cupful butter, one cup- 
molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful allspice, one 
teaspoonful cloves, one nutmeg, one cup sour milk (with 
soda), four cups of flour. 

For white layer : Take whites of seven eggs, one cup- 
ful butter, two cups white sugar, one cup sour milk (with 
soda), four cups flour, flavor. Lay on in alternate layers. 

Tea Cake. 
One cupful sugar, one of butter, two eggs, flour and a 
little soda. 



CAKE 175 

Dolly Varden Cake. 

The whites of three eggs with one teacupful powdered 
sugar and half a teacupful of butter; two teacupfuls flour 
with one and a half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add the eggs, mix in the flour with 
half a teacupful of milk, and flavor with lemon. Make a 
frosting of the yolks of the eggs and one teacupful of 
sugar. 

Sarah's Choice Cup Cakes. 

1. One and one half eupfuls sugar, l^^ cups milk, i^ 
cup butter, three cups flour, four yolks of eggs, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Yellow cake. 

2. Same receipt as first, only four whites of eggs. 
White cake. 

3. One half of the quantity the white and red sugar 
to fancy. Pink cake. 

4. One-half of the quantity the yellow and chocolate 
to fancy. Bro^Ti cake. 

Confectioner's frosting for the different cakes if pre- 
pared : Sugar and water enough to make it as thick as 
cake batter. 

Neufchatel Cheese Cake. 
One Neufchatel cheese, one teacupful sugar; grate the 
rind of one lemon and use with it half of the juice, half 
a teacupful each of rolled cracker crumbs and currants, 
four eggs, one tablespoonful melted butter, half a teacup- 
ful cream or rich milk, half a nutmeg grated, and one 
saltspoonful of salt. Mix the cracker crumbs dry with 
the cheese, first removing the wrapper and taking off the 
thin skin on the outside of the cheese ; crumble the cheese 
and cracker crumbs well together, beat the eggs well with 
the sugar and add, following with the butter and cream. 
If the cream is very rich the butter may be omitted. 
Lastly, add lemon, nutmeg and currants. The currants 



176 CAKE 

must be washed, dried and dusted with cracker dust or 
flour. Mix all well together and put into well-buttered 
patty-pans that have been lined with puff-paste. Bake 
fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick oven. ■ They will puff 
up, but must not be permitted to get too brown. 

Gaelic Fruit Cake. ' - 

Cream two teacupfuls of sugar and one of butter; add 
gradually one teacupful of milk, then the beaten yolks of 
nine eggs, four teacupfuls of flour sifted and mixed while 
dry with two teaspoonfiils of baking powder. "While beat- 
ing in the flour add the whites of the eggs whippedto a 
froth. Flavor to taste. In putting the cake in the pan 
place first a thin layer of cake, then sprinkle in a portion 
of the following three kinds of fruit mixed together. One 
pound of raisins seeded ahd chopped, half a pound of cur- 
rants, and one-fourth pound of citron sliced thin. Follow 
with a layer of cake, then a layer of fruit, and so on, fin- 
ishing with a thin layer of cake. Bake in a moderate 
oven for two hours. Of course the currants should be 
washed and dried before using. 

Sewing Society Cake. 
One and one-half cupfuls sugar, one cupful milk, two 
eggs beaten separatelj', % cupful butter, 2% cups flour, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one small cup raisins — 
stoned — one small cup currants. 

Yellow Sponge Cake. 
One cupful sugar, one of flour, three eggs, a pinch of 
salt, three tabrespoonfuls water on the sugar, dissolved 
when hot; put on the eggs, which have been previously 
beaten and mixed; then beat fifteen minutes and add 
flour lightly. 




Cocoanut Cake. 

One-half cupful of butter and two cupfuls of sugar 
rubbed to a cream; stir in a cupful of sweet milk, then 
three cupfuls of flour and four teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder; last of all, the whites of five eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Bake in three or four layers. Grate the meat 
of a fresh cocoanut, be careful to first remove all the shell. 
Make a frosting of the whites of two eggs and a large cup- 
ful of powdered sugar; put a layer of frosting and then 
one of the grated cocoanut between each layer of cake, 
cover the top and sides with frosting, and sprinkle thickly 
with the cocoanut. Prepared cocoanut can be used if the 
other is not obtainable. 



Jelly Cake. 

Stir together one cupful of sugar, one-half cupful of 
butter, three-fourths of a cupful of sweet milk, two beaten 
eggs, two cupfuls of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake in three layers, spread jelly between and 
put a frosting on top. 

177 



178 LATER CAKE 

Jelly Cake No. 2. 
Beat together two eggs and one cupful of sugar ; add 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, four of cold water, 
one cupful of flour, and one and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Bake in layers; spread jelly, eocoanut, 
orange, or lemon frosting, or any other suitable mixture 
between the layers. 

Jelly Roll. 

One cupful of sugar, one of flour, three eggs^ and one 
teaspoonful of baking powder; beat well, and spread on 
a long narrow baking tin f bake quickly and turn out on 
cloth, spread with jelly and roll up. This cake is a great 
favorite for children's parties. Its excellence, of course, 
depends on the quality of the jelly. 

Cream Cake. 

. Stir together two cupfuls of sugar, a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, three eggs, two and one half cupfuls of 
flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat well 
and bake in two layers in jelly pans. 

Cream for Cake : Take one cupful of thick sweet cream 
that has been on ice, or in a very cold place for some time ; 
whip to a stiif froth, add sugar and flavoring to taste; 
spread between the layers and serve. 

Cream Cake No. 2. 

Take two teacupfuls of flour and stir into it thoroughly 
two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar; then add two teacup- 
fuls of sugar, and mix well ; then add six beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and one-half cupful of 
cold water in which has been dissolved a teaspoonful of 
soda. Bake in thr^ layers. 

Cream for Cake No. 2 .- Take a little over two cupfuls 
of sweet milk, put in a double boiler and let come to a 
boil. Beat together two eggs, one cupful of sugar, and 



LAYER CAKE 179 

two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, or flour ; stir this mix- 
ture into the boiling milk and when the consistency of 
thick cream, take off the fire, flavor with lemon, and when 
cool spread between the layers of cake. This cake is best 
when used fresh. 

Fig Cake. 

Two cupfuls of sugar and six eggs, beaten together 
for five minutes; then stir in one cupful of sweet milk, 
three cupfuls of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Bake in two or three layers. 

Fig Cake Dressing : Chop one pound of figs very fine, 
adding a little hot water from time to time, to moisten; 
put in enough so they will spread nicely, but not enough 
to make them sloppy ; add enough sugar to sweeten, or a 
frosting can be made and spread on top of each layer of 
figs. An excellent dressing. 

Caramel Cake. 

Make any of the above layer cakes and spread between 
each layer and on top, a frosting made as follows : Two 
cupfuls of sugar, two-thirds of a cupful of sweet miik 
and a lump of butter the size of an egg. Boil for fifteen 
minutes, being careful not to let it scorch ; beat until cool, 
and flavor with vanilla. 

Lemon Cake. 

Make a cake after any of the foregoing rules for layer 
cake and make a dressing for it as follows : Put in a bowl 
the juice and grated rind of a lemon; add a well-beaten 
egg, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of com starch, and pour over the whole a cupful of 
boiling water. Set tte bowl in hot water until the corn 
starch is cooked. Wbeu cool spread between the layers 
of cake. 



180 LATER CAKE 

Pineapple Cake. 

Make a cake after the rule given for cocoanut cake, and 
for the dressing to put between the layers, prepare a pine- 
apple as follows : Pare the pineapple and chop, or grate, 
very fine ; put in a stewpan with enough sugar to make a 
thick syrup when boiled. Save a large iablespoonful of 
the pineapple to put with the frosting, and spread the rest, 
when cool, between the layers of cake. Make a frosting of 
the beaten white of one egg, the tablespoonful of piue- 
apple, and enough sugar to make a thick frosting ; spread 
on the top and sides of the cake. 

Ice Cream Cake. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, and one-half cupful 
of butter; stir the butter and sugar to a cream; add the 
whites of four eggs, one at a time, without previously beat- 
ing, one-half cupful of sweet milk, two and one-half cup- 
fuls of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Stir 
well, and bake in layers. Ice Cream : To prepare the ice 
cream, take two cupfuls of white sugar, add a little water 
and boil to a soft wax ; then beat in the whites of two eggs, 
and tartaric acid the size of a pea dissolved in a few drops 
of water. • Spread between the layers and on the top and 
sides. 

Fruit Layer Cake. 

Stir together two cupfuls of sugar with two-thirds of 
a cupful of butter; add one cupful of sweet milk, three 
cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream 
tartar; mix thoroughly and divide in two equal parts. 
To one-half add the beaten whites of three eggs; to the 
other half, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, 
one-half teaspoonful of allspice, quarter of a pound of 
citron sliced fine, one cupful of chopped raisins, and one- 



LAYER CAKE 181 

quarter of a cupful of flour. Stir all well together, and 
bake in ielly cake tins. The dark layers will have to bake 
longer than the light" ones. In arranging the loaf have a 
dark layer at the bottom, a light one next, and so on, hav- 
ing a light layer for the top. Put frosting between each 
layer, and on the top and sides. 

Ohocolate Cake. 
Two cupfuls of sugar and one-half cupful of butter; 
stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add one cupful of 
sweet milk, and when that is well stirred in add three 
cupfuls of flour, and three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
then add the beaten whites of five eggs ; bake in three or 
four layers. For chocolate dressing grate one-quarter of 
a cake of chocolate, add a cupful of sugar and water 
enough to dissolve, set in hot water, and let come to a 
boil ; when cold add the beaten white of an egg. Spread 
between the layers and on the top and sides. 

Chocolate Cake No. 2. 

Shave off one-half cupful of bitter chocolate, put in 
a stirring bowl, and set the bowl in boiling water until 
the chocolate is dissolved. "While it is dissolving add one- 
half cupful of milk; when dissolved set in a cool place. 
When cold, add two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of 
butter, one-half cupful of milk, the well-beaten yolks of 
three eggs, and the whites of two. When these are well 
mixed, stir in two and three-fourths cupfuls of flour, and 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in layers and 
frost betwee^. 




(SHORTCAKESf piBS TA'RTS 



General Instructions. 

In pastry making, the quality to be desired is lightness,, 
and this depends on the amount of air in the pastry before 
and the expansion of the air after it is put in the oven. 
Therefore the best pastry is that which contains the great- 
est quantity of the coldest air before it is baked. The 
foldings and the rollings, with which we are all familiar, 
have this increase of air in view. The difference between 
flaky and short crust is that in one there are thin layers of 
air and pastry alternating, and in the other the air fills 
small cavities all over the pastry. 

To make the air cold, pastry should always be made in 
a cold place,, with cold water, on ice if possible, and paste* 
that is set aside to wait beWeen rollings or before baking 
should stand on ice or on a cold stone. Coolffe with a hot 
hand should mix paste with a knife. Pastry should be 
rolled lightly, the rolling pin often lifted and little pressed 
upon. . It should not be turned over or thrown about. Any 
pieces that are left over should be laid on over the other 
and rolled flat, not rolled into a ball as the common prac- 

182 



PASTRY 183 

tice is. Eggs are used to increase the tenacity of the paste, 
and so hold more air, or if, as sometimes happens, the 
white is whisked to a froth, it contains a great deal of air 
which it carries with it into the paste. Baking powder has 
the same effect in pastry and ia bread, where its action 
has been more or less fully described. If it is used, it 
should be for pastry baked at once and little handled — 
that is for short rather than for flaky crust. 

DROP CAKES, COOKIES AND FRIED CAKES. 

Ginger Drops. 
Dissolve a teaspoonf ul of pulverized alum in a cupful of 
boiling water, add two cupfuls of molasses, one of melted 
butter or pork drippings, two beaten eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls of soda and two of ginger, stir in flour enough to 
make a thick batter ; drop in small spoonfuls in a baking 
pan and bake in a rather quick oven. 

Ginger Drop Cakes. 

One cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of melted but- 
ter, one-half cupful of warm water, three cupfuls of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and two of ginger; stir all weU 
together, line a dripping pan with buttered paper, drop 
in small spoonfuls andbake in a quick oven. 

Cup Cakes. 
Rub one-half pound of butter, and three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to a cream ; then stir in five beaten eggs, 
one cupful of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder, and 
one-half pound of flour; when well mixed put in small 
moulds or patty pans, filling them about half full and 
bake in a brisk oven. 

Lady's Fingers. 
Eight ounces of powdered sugar, one-half gill of water, 
nine eggs, and ten ounces of flour ; separate the yolks from 



184 PASTRY 

the whites, and put the whites in a bowl on ice. Put the 
sugar and water in a saucepan on the fire, add the yolks 
and beat with an egg beater until the mixture is warm, 
not hot ; take the pan off the fire and beat for ten minutes, 
until cold, whip the whites to a stiff froth and mix lightly 
with the other composition, then stir in the flour without 
beating. Make a cornucopia of a sheet of- foolscap,. sewing 
up the side where it laps over, so that it will be firm, cut 
off the lower point enough to make an opening as large 
as one's finger; line a baking pan with buttered paper, 
put some of the cake mixture in the cornucopia and 
squeeze out in finger lengths upon the buttered paper, sift 
powdered sugar over them and bake for eight minutes. 

Savoy Biscuits. 

Make the same batter as for lady 's fingers, and ilavor 
with vanilla. Bake in gem or patty pans, fastened to- 
gether by the dozen. Prepare the pans by brushing them 
with melted butter, fill the pans about half full, and pow- 
dered sugar sifted over them before baking. These cakes 
bake very quickly, and should be a light brown color when 
done. 

Sugar Cookies. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of cream ; two cupfuls 
of sugar, three eggs, and one teaspoonful of soda. Beat 
the eggs for one minute, add tlie sugar and beat again, 
then put in the butter (soft and melted), the cream and 
the soda dissolved in a very little water, and flour enough 
to make a very soft dough ; roll out, cut with a cake cut- 
ter, and bake in a brisk oven, ' 

Sugar Cookies No. 2. 

Rub to a cream two cupfuls of sugar and one of butter, , 
add a cupful of sweet milk, and two teaspoonfuls of soda 
and flour enough to roll without sticking. Cut in round 
or square cakes, and ba,ke in a quick oveo. 



PASTRY 1-OD 

Jumbles. 

Beat together three eggs, and one and one-quarter cup- 
fuls of sugar, add a cupful of soft butter, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sour milk, one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, and 
flour enough to mix stiff ; when rolled out, sift sugar over 
the top, cut in rings and bake in a quick oven. 

Almond Cookies. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound of sugar, one 
and one-quarter pound of flour, five beaten eggs, one 
heaping teaspoonful of baking povs^der, flavor with almond 
extract; mix to a smooth dough; roll to a quarter of an 
inch in thickness, brush with the beaten white of an egg 
and sprinkle thickly with chopped almonds; bake in a 
quick oven. 

Cocoanut Cookies. 
Stir together two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little milk, 
and the meat of one medium sized cocoanut grated fine, 
add flour enough to roll, and bake in a quick oven. 

Lemon Cakes. 
One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one 
pound and three ounces flour, three eggs ; the grating of 
two lemons; mix the butter, sugar, lemon grating and 
eggs together, mix in the flour, and set on ice or in a cool 
place for two or three hours, then roll out, cut in small 
round cakes, brush with beaten egg, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Card Cakes. 
Take one cupful each of sugar, butter, molasses, and 
sour milk; add two teaspoonfuls of soda, two of ginger, 
two of cinnamon, and a pinch of salt ; mix in enough flour 
to roll out, cut in cakes four inches wide and five inches 
long; when in the pan mark with a knife across the top, 
about half an inch apart. Bake in a quick oveo, 



186 PASTRY 

Ginger Cookies. 

One cupful of molasses, one of sugar, one of sour milk, 
one of butter or fried meat fat, one teaspoonful of soda, 
on*^ tablespoonful of ginger; stir well together and add 
enough flour to make a soft dough ; cut -in round or square 
cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Ginger Cookies No. 2. 
One cupful of molasses, one of sugar, one of butter or 
pork drippings, one-half cupful of boiling water, a small 
tablespoonful of soda, dissolved in the hot water, and a 
tablespoonful of ginger ; add enough flour to roll out with- 
out sticking and bake in a quick oven. 

Ginger Cookies, No. 3. 

Two cupfuls molasses, % cup sugar, one cup lard, one 
teaspoonful ginger, one of cinnamon, two of soda dis- 
solved in 14 cupful hot water, a piece of alum size of a 
bean dissolved in I/2 cupful hot water, flour enough to 
roll; let stand one hour and bake. 

Fruit Cookies. 

Two cupfuls sugar, one of butter, two of raisins stoned, 
chopped' fine, two tablespoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoon- 
ful soda,- flour enough to roll out. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One coffee cupful of New Orleans molasses, one of but- 
ter, and one of sugar. ' Put in a saucepan, set on the stove 
and let come to a boil ; then take off and add a teaspoon- 
ful of soda and a tablespoonful of ginger ; mix in* enough 
flour to roll out easily^ roll out very thin, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Sarah's Oat Meal Cookies. 
One-half cupful butter, one cupful sugar, li/^ cupfuls 
oatmeal, one cupful flour, one cupful raisins, one cupful 
nut meats, one teaspoonful soda, three eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls cinnamon. 



PASTRY 187 

Spanish "Tortillas," 

(Spanish Corn Meal Cakes.) 
Soak one quart white shelled hard corn in cold water 
for forty-eight hours, changing water once only. Drain 
thoroughly and pound and mascerate thoroughly in a 
mortar with pestle. Have some dry, very fine corn meal 
handy to mix with mass to arrive at a proper dough-like 
consistency. Put a small handful of the com mixture to 
the size and thickness of a very thin pancake and put on 
a well-heated griddle without fat of* any kind. Bake to a 
toast and keep Warm on a pie platter in the oven until 
ready to serve. No seasoning is required as the ' ' tortillas ' ' 
are eaten in combination with any highly-seasoned meat 
dish. In Spain and Spanish-American countries large 
quantities of chilies or red peppers are used with all food 
eaten with "tortillas." 

Little Currant Cakes. 
Stir to a cream three cupfuls of sugar, and three-fourths 
of a cupful of butter, add one cupful of buttermilk, four 
beaten eggs, five cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, 
and a heaping cupful of currants; mix well and bake in 
buttered patty pans. 

Hermits. 
One cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of nice 
brown sugar, three eggs, one cupful of stoned and chopped 
raisins, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two table- 
spoonfuls of milk, nutmeg, cinnamon and "cloves to taste, 
and flour enough to roll out ; cut in squares and bake in 
a moderately quick oven. 

Johnny Cake. 
Two cupfuls sour milk, two of meal, one of flour, two 
tablespoonfuls molasses, one egg, one teaspoonful soda, 
a little salt and butter. 



188 PASTRY 

Cream Pufifs. 

Stir together in a saucepan one cupful of butter wfth 
two of flour; when well mixed add half a pint of boil- 
ing water, stir, smooth, and when it boils set aside to cool, 
when cool, add five eggs and beat for two or three min- 
utes; cover the bottom of a baking pan with buttered 
paper and^ drop the mixture on it in small spoonfuls, or 
it can be put in muffin rings. Bake for twenty-five or 
thirty minutes in a brisk oven. 

Cream f qr Pilling : * Boil one pint of milk, heat together 
one cupful of sugar, two eggs and one-half'cupful of flour, 
stir this into the boiling milk and let it cook for three 
minutes, flavor with lemoh or vanilla; cut a circular piece 
out of the top of each puff, fill with the custard and re- 
place the top. 

Eclairs. 

One pint of milk, six ounces butter, eight ounces corn 
starch, ten eggs. Boil the milk and butter together, add 
the corn starch and boil for three minutes. After re- 
moving the paste from the fire, let cool, and then add the 
eggs one at a time and beat thoroughly; bake in oval- 
shaped patty pans; when done, cut open and fill with 
whipped cream, flavored to taste ; make an icing for the 
tops flavored the same as the whipped cream. 

Jumbles. 

Two eupfuls sugar, one of sour milk or cream, one cup- 
ful butter, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda. 

Chocolate Eclairs. 

Make the same as above, fill the center of the cakes 
with vanilla custard, and ice with chocolate icing. 

Transparent Puffs. 
Mix together one pint of water, two ounces butter, six 
ounces corn starch, then beat in five whole eggs and the 
whites of five. Beat well and bake in oatty pans of in 
small spoonfuls on buttered paper. 



PASTRY 189 

Doughnuts. 

Beat two eggs and one cupful of sugar together, add 
four tablespoonfuls of melted lard, one cupful of sour 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of salt, seasoning 
to. suit taste and flour enough to make a soft dough ; roll 
out, cut in rings by using two sizes of cake cutters and 
fry them in hot lard. 

Kaised Doughnuts. 

Measure off two quarts of flour, put in a large stirring 
bowl and- make a cavity in the middle, scald a pint of 
milk and when tepid add a heaping cupful of sugar, ^ 
of a cupful of butter -and a cake of yeast; pour this in 
the cavity in the flour and stir in enough flour to make a 
sponge, cover and set away in a warm place to rise, letting 
it stand all night. In the morning put in a half teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little water and knead in the 
rest of the flour. Let it rise again until light, knead again, 
roll out and cut into shape, and let them lie on the pastry 
board eight or ten minutes before frosting. Fry in hot 
lard. Frosting: Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, stir in 1% cupfuls of sugar and a teaspoonful of 
eitfract of lemon or vanilla. 

Boiled Frosting: Put in a stewpan two cupfuls of 
sugar and % a cupful of milk, set on the stove and boil 
for five minutes ; care must be taken to prevent scorching. 
When boiled, take off the fire and beat until it creams; 
spread on the cake at once. 

Boiled Frosting No. 2 : Boil one cupful of sugar with 
% a cupful of water ; boil without stirring until the syrup 
is thick, take from the fire and when partially cool add 
the beaten white of one egg. This makes a nice frosting. 

Lemon Icing: One cupful of sugar, the juice of one 
lemon, and one beaten egg ; put on the stove and let come 
to a boil, stir until cool and use. 



190 PASTEY 

SHORT CAKES. 

Crust No. 1. 
Take one quart of flour, and add to it two teaspoonfuls 
of soda and two of cream tartar, sift two or three times, 
and rub into it a lump of butter the size of an egg ; add a 
pint of sour milk, and work smooth with as little kneading 
as possible ; roll out to % inch in thickness, place in a shal- 
low square baking pan and bake in a brisk oven for 
twenty minutes. When done, split open, butter, and put 
fruit between the layers and on top. Another nice way is 
to make the crust as above, and divide in two eqiial parts; 
roll out ope-half to fit the baking tin, and spread with but-, 
ter, then roll out the other half and put on top of the first 
half, then spread a little butter on top of ,the last half. 
This will make the cru?t nice and flaky, and also cause it 
to come apart without splitting with a knife. 

Crust No. 2. 
Beat together one egg, % cupful of sugar, a lump of but- 
ter the size of an egg, two cupfuls of sweet milk, two tea- . 
spoonfuls of baking powder, and flour enough to make a 
batter as for cake ; bake in layers in a quick oven for al- 
most twenty minutes. 

Fruit for ^hort Cake. 

Strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, very ripe 
peaches and oranges make a nice filling for short cake. 
The fruit should be mashed or sliced, sweetened and put 
between the crust, and on top. Jam, marmalade, and al- 
most any kind of preserved fruit can be used, if fresh fruit 
is not obtainable. 

Boll Puddings. 

Make a crust as for short cake, roll out thin, and spread 
with raspberries, peaches, chopped apples, or any fruit 
that is suitable ; sweeten the fruit and roll over and over. 



PASTRY 191 

pinch the ends and side opening together, and either boil 
or bake. Two hours will be required to boil it, while 1^/^ 
hours will be sufficient for baking. Serve with sauce. 

PIES. 

Pie Crust. 
Take one quart of flour and rub into it a cupful of butter 
or lard, add a teaspoonful of salt, and enough very cold 
water to make a stifE dough. Mix with as little handling 
as possible, and put on ice or in a cool place, an hour or 
two before using; roll out thin, put in the filling, and 
spread a little butter on the upper crust, before baking. 

Puff Paste. 
Take one pound of flour, and one pound of butter. Rub 
the flour and one-half the butter together, and add enough 
cold water to make a stiff dough, roll this out till % inch 
in thickness, then put on one-half of the remainder of the 
butter in a lump ; fold the corners of the dough over the 
butter, and roll out carefully until about 14 l^ich thick, put 
on the rest of the butter, fold the corners over this again, 
and roll out again in as long a strip as possible, fold back- 
ward and forward, and roll out as before. Do this four or 
five times, letting rest % hour between each rolling. 

Tart Paste. 
Take ^/^ cupful of water, % cupful of lard, the beaten 
white of one egg, three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
and one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and ^^ teaspoonful 
of soda; add flour enough to make a moderately stiff 
dough. 

Fruit Pies. 

Rub the plates or tins on which they are to be baked 

vrith a very little butter ; roll the crust out thin, line the 

plate, and put in the fruit, being careful not to put in too 

much, as that would cause the pie to run over. Sweeten to 



192 PASTRY 

taste, and if the fruit is juicy, stii! a little flour through it 
before putting it in the crust. Berries, cherries, gooseber- 
ries, rhubarb, plums, etc., do not need any seasoning, ex- 
cept sugar. Apple and peach pies are improved by placing 
bits of butter on the fruit before putting on the upper 
crust. The edge of under crust should be wet with a little 
flour and water before putting on the upper crust. Pies 
should be baked in a moderate oven, the usual time being 
from forty to sixty minutes. 

Corn Starch for Pie. 
Boil one pint of milk; when boiling, stir in % cupful 
of corn starch, one cup of sugar, yolks of two eggs, beat 
well together, cook long enough not to have a raw taste. 
Add juice arid rind of one lemon, a little salt, beat the 
whites with a cup of sugar, put in the oven and brown. 
Cook pastry first. 

Mince Meat. 
One pound of chopped apples, one pound of stoned rais- 
ins; one pound of suet chopped very fine, % pound of 
mixed citron and orange peel chopped fine, % ounce of 
mixed spice, one pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt; 
mix all together thoroughly, add enough water to moisten, 
and cook for one hour. Then add I/2 pint of good whiskey 
or brandy. "When making pies, add a little more sugar, if 
not sweet enough. 

Mince Meat No. 2. 

Cook until tender, four pounds of lean meat or tongues, 
chopped very fine ; then add two pounds of chopped suet, 
seven pounds of chopped apples, two pounds of currants, 
picked, washed and dried, three pounds of stoned raisins, 
one pound of citron chopped fine, four pounds of brovra 
sugar, two chopped lemons, peel and all, % ounce of mace, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of all- 



PASTRY 193 

spice, one tablespoonful of cloves, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, and two oranges chopped fine ; add enough cider to 
moisten and cook all together for one hour. 

Mother's Mince Meat. 
Take three pounds beef, l^/^ pounds suet, three pounds 
currants, six pounds apples, three- pounds raisins, one 
pound sugar, 14 pound citron, three oranges, two table- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful ground mace, two 
nutmegs, three dozen cloves, one quart wine, one pint 
brandy. 

Mock Mince Fie. 
One and one-half pints of cold water; add five soda 
crackers rolled fine, % cupful of cider or vinegar, one cup- 
ful of molasses, 1% cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of raisins, 
stoned and chopped, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg, one tablespoonful of butter, one beaten 
egg. Boil all together, except the cracker, for fifteen min- 
utes, then add the cracker, and make the pies with two 
crusts. 

Lemon Cream Pie. 
The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cupful of 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour ; 
mix all together and pour over the whole a cupful of boil- 
ing water. Set the dish containing the mixture into an- 
other of hot water and boil until well cooked. Make the 
pie with an under crust only, and bake until done; then 
add a frosting made of two beaten whites of eggs, and two 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar ; spread evenly over the pie, 
put back into the oven and brown slightly. 

Pumpkin Pie. 
Cut up a small sized pumpkin, cook imtil done, then 
stew down until little moisture is left; then press through 



194 PASTRY 

a colander or sieve. Take four cupfti|ls of tile pumpkin, 
add to it one cupful of molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of ginger, two of eitinamon, two of flour, 
three pints of milk, a teaspoonf ul of salt, and five well- 
beaten eggs; mix all together thoroughly, and bake with 
under crust only. 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 2. 
Cut pumpkin without paring, bake it skin side down 
until tender and scoop out the pulp and sift it. For one 
pie, allow 1% cupfuls pumpkin, one cup boiling milk, one 
teaspoonful butter, %. cup sugar, i/^ teaspoonful salt, i/4 
of cinnamon, same of ginger, one egg, beaten separately, 
-half bake the crust, fill with the pumpkin and bake until 
it fills up. 

Potato Cream Pie. 

One pound of mashed potatoes, % pound of white sugar, 
six dunces' of butter, % cupful of milk," four beaten eggs, 
and a little brandy. Boil good mealy potatoes and mash 
them through a sieve ; mix butter with them while warm; 
then the sugar, milk, and flavoring ; separate the eggs, and 
beat both yolks and whites quite light, stir them into the 
pie just before baking, and sift powdered sugar over the 
pie when done. 

Squash Pie. 

Pare the squash and remove the seeds, stew until soft 
and dry, then press through a sieve or colander, stir into 
the squash enough sweet milk to make it a batter ; season 
with cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg to taste ; sweeten with 
sugar, and add three beaten egg^ for each quart of milk. 
Fill very full, pie plates lined with crust, and bake for 
one hour. 

Squash Pie, No. 2. 

Three quarts squash, one quart milk, six eggs, one 
tumblerful wine, y^, cupful nutmeg ; sugar to your taste. 



PASTEY 195 

Orang'e Pie. 

Grate one orange, add one cupful of sugar, one of water, 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, three eggs, reserving the white of one for frosting, 
one teaspoonful of tartaric acid. Mix all together thor- 
oughly and bake with under crust only. When done, 
spread over it a frosting made of the white of one egg and 
two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Put back into the 
oven and brown slightly. 

Transparent Pie. 
Beat together one whole egg and the yolks of two 
others ; add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one cup- 
ful of sweet milk, one cupful of brown, sugar, one-half of 
a grated nutmeg. Beat all together and bake with under' 
crust only. When done, cover with a frosting made of 
one cupful of sugar «and the whites of two eggs; flavor 
with lemon and put back into the oven for two or three 
minutes. 

Apple Cream Pie. 

One pint of stewed apples, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two 
beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and half a glass of 
wine ; mix together and bake with two crusts. 

German Mince Pie. 
Take % pound citron ; 14 pound candied lemon peel ; 1^ 
pounds best beef suet clear of all flakes and strings ; V/z 
pounds washed currants ; two pounds seedless raisins ; % 
. ounce rose water ; two dozen ground cardamom seeds ; two 
cloves; one teaspoon ground cinnamon, mace and allspice 
mixed ; a little grated nutmeg ; three gills brandy ; grated 
rind of one lemon; two dozen crab apples; one pound 
powdered sugar ; i/^ pound flour. Chop citron, lemon peel 
and suet each separately, then mix- all with sugar and flour 



196 PASTEY 

so as to be a loose mass ; add the currants and raisins with- 
the other ingredients and moisten all with the brandy. 
Stir well, adding a little more of the sugar and flour mix- 
ture if running too freely. Use a piifE paste for both 
upper and lower crusts. Prepare one week in advance 
of cooking, and bake in moderately slow oven. Top erust 
should be glazed with white of egg, powdered sugar and 
rosewater. 

Custard and Cocoanut Pie. 

Line your pie plate with pie erust, and fill it with a mix- 
ture of three beaten eggs, 'one pint of milk, 2/3 cupful of 
sugar; flavor with a little mace, and bake it in a medium 
hot oven. For cocoanut pie use the same custard as for 
custard pie, but add grated cocoanut, either fresh or pre- 
pared. 

Lemon Pie. 

(Delicious.) 
One lemon, two eggs, six tablespoonfuls sugar, one ta- 
blespoonful melted butter, one tablespoonful com starch, 
one cupful boiling water. Use whites of eggs for mer- 
ingue. 

Lemon Custard Fie. 

The yolks of three eggs, grated rind of one lemon, also 
the juice, three tablespoonfuls flour, three of sugar, 
enough milk to fill a pie plate, the whites of the eggs with 
five tablespoonfuls sugar to frost it. 

Chocolate Cream Fie. 

One quart of milk, one coffee cupful of sugar, four table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one bar of bitter chocolate grated, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, the yolks of five beaten 
eggs. Boil the milk with the chocolate in it ; mix the flour 
and sugar together, and stir into the boiling milk ; then 
add butter and yolks of eggs, and take the mixture off, the 



PASTRY 197 

fire immediately. Bake in thin crusts of puff paste. Whip 
the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth while the pies are 
baking, add a cupful of sugar, and flavor with vanilla. 
Spread over the hot pies, and put back into the oven until 
slightly brown. 

Cracker Pie. 

Six round or four square crackers, soak in one pint 
boiling water, one cupful sugar, one teaspoonful tartaric 
acid. 

Sour Milk Fie. 
One cupful of sour milk, one cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of raisins stoned and chopped, two eggs, all kinds of spice. 
Bake between two crusts. 

Lemon Fie. 

Two lemons grated, two cupfuls sugar, four eggs, two 
apples grated, two layers of mixture with a barred crust 
between — ^whites beaten and laid on when nearly done. 

Another: Three lemons, seven tablespoonfuls sugar, 
yolks six eggs, whites beaten with seven spoonfuls sugar, 
added when nearly done. 

Another : One spoonful com starch, one cupful boiling 
water, one cupful sugar, one egg, one lemon. 

C~eam Fie. 
Put one pint of milk in the double boiler, and let come 
to a boil. Beat together the yolks of two eggs, % cupful 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour or corn starch; stir 
this into the boiling milk, and cook until thick. Flavor 
with }emon or vanilla. Line a pie plate with puff paste, 
and bake first ; then pour the boiled custard into the baked 
crust; then spread over it a frosting made of the beaten 
whites of the eggs, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar ; 
put the pie back in the oven, and brown slightly. 



198 PASTIiY 

Mabel's Lemon Pie. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, one -cupful sugar, 
one cup water, three roUed crackers, one tablespoonful 
com starch, dissolved in a little of the water, three eggs — 
divided — ^take the whites for the top, heating in a little 
sugar and then put back in the oven to brown. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 
Boil nice bright sweet potatoes, and^ when Well done 
peel, mash, and put through a colander. For every cupful 
of the sweet potato use one cupful of milk, one egg, add" 
sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg to taste. Bake with under 
crust only. 

Potato and Carrot Pie. 

Take ten ounces of potatoes, eight ounces of carrot, two 
ounces of onion, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, 
one pint of water, % head of celery, paste. Cut the vege- 
tables into small pieces, and stew them in a pan v/itE a 
little water till tender. Place them in a pie dish with the 
butter, dredge With the flour, and season with pepper and 
salt. Cover with pastry, and bake for % hour in a mod^ 
erate oven. Serve hot. 

Orange Tarts. 

Needed : Oranges, sugar, puff-paste. Pare some oranges 
very thin, soak them in water for three days, changing 
the water frequently. Boil them until soft. "When cold, 
cut a thick slice from the top and bottom, and the rest in 
thin slices; line tart dishes with puff paste, and fill them 
with layers of sugar and orange alternately. 

Sand Tarts. 

Cream together one pound of brown sugar and % pound 

of butter. Beat the yolks of three eggs very light, and add 

butter and sugar ; sift one pound of flour in dry state with, 

two teaspponfuls of baking powder, mix with the eggs, 



PASTRY 199 

butter and sugar until a paste firm enough to roll has been 
formed. Roll out thin and cut into squares; spread the 
whites of- the eggs over the top; sift over this granulated 
sugar and crown with half a pound of blanched almonds, 
rolled and spread over the surface. Bake in a quick oven. 

Neapolitaines. 

Make enough puff paste for a pie ; roll into a sheet half 
an inch thick and cut into strips three inches by one and 
one-half. Bake in a quick oven. "When cold, spread with 
jam or jelly half the strips, and stick the others over in 
pairs with jelly between. Cover with frosting. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Pour boiling water over two teacupfuls of chopped rhu- 
barb, drain off the water after four or five minutes, and 
mix with the rhubarb a teacupful of sugar, the yolk of an 
egg, a piece of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, moist- 
ening the whole with three tablespoonfuls of water. Bake 
with the lower crust only, and make a meringue of the 
white of the egg with three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; spread 
over the top of the pie, and return to the oven to brown. 

Rhubarb Pie No. 2. 

Skin the stalks, cut them into small pieces; line a pie 
dish with pasire, put a layer of the rhubarb nearly an inch 
deep ; to one quart bowl of cut rhubarb put a large teacup- 
ful of sugar ; strew over it a saltspoonful of salt and a little 
nutmeg grated; shake over it a little flour, cover with a 
rich pie crust, cut a slit irt the center, trim off the edge 
with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven until the pie 
loosens from the dish. 

A pinch of soda added will eliminate the tartness some 
persons object to. 



200 PASTRY 

Custard Fie. (Extra Fine.) 

Beat together until very light the yolks of four eggs | 
add one quart of sweet milk; flavor with nutmeg or va- 
nilla ; stir in a pinch of salt and pour into tins lined with 
paste ; bake in a slow oven until firm ; when done beat the 
whites of the eggs to a froth, add sugar and spread over 
the top of the pie, and return to the oven to brown slightly. 

Walnut Wafers. 

One half pint sugar, i/^ pint walnuts, three even 
tablespqonfuls flour, 1/3 teaspoonful salt, two eggs ; 
beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt and flour and the wal- 
nuts; drop the mixture in small portions on buttered 
paper and bake till done. 

New England Pumpkin Pie. 

Take pumpkin (yellow preferred) cut up without par- 
ing, bake rind side down until tender; squeeze through 
coUender. Allow l^/^ eupfuls pumpkin, one cupful boiling 
milk, one teaspoonful butter, % cupful sugar, % teaspoon- 
ful salt, % teaspoonful cinnamon, same of ginger, one egg 
beaten separately, half bake crust, fill with pumpkin. 
Bake until it fills up. A royal Thanksgiving pie. Serve 
with good cheese. 

Philadelphia Apple Pie. 

Slice sufficient apples to make pie one inch thick; fill 
into lower crust, sprinkle with sugar, put pieces of butter 
here and there; grate nutmeg' over all, and add water; 
put on top crust (which should be made of puff paste) 
slit top crust in two or three places and brush with beaten 
yolks of egg. One of the secrets of a good pie is to work 
the dough to light consistency using best quality of butter 
or lard. 




CREAMS 1^ CUSTARDS 



Ice Cream No. 1. 

Put one quart of imilk in the double boiler; let come to 
a boil and then stir in one coffee cupful of sugar, and 
three beaten eggs. Put in the freezer and when partly 
frozen add % of a pint of rich sweet cream, then finish 
freezing. Serve in delicate ice-cream cups or dishes. 

Ice Cream No. 2. 
Three quarts of milk, one quart of cream, three cupfuls 
of sugar, 1/^ cupful of flour, whites of six eggs. Take a 
pint of the milk and put in the double boiler and let it 
come to a boil; mix the flour with some of the cold milk 
and stir into the hot milk, add the sugar and pour the 
mixture into the remainder of the cold milk; stir in the 
well beaten whites of six eggs, flavor to suit taste, and 
freeze. 

Ice Cream<iNo. 3. 

One quart of rich milk, seven eggs, yolks and whites 
beaten separately, four cupfuls of sugar, two quarts of 
sweet cream, six teaspoonfuls of flavoring. Put the milk 
in a double boiler and heat almost to boiling; beat the 
yolks very light, add the sugar and heat a little longer; 
then, little by little, add the boiling milk, beating all the 

SOI 



202 DESSERTS 

while ; stir in the well beaten whites of the eggs, return to 
the boiler and cook until it is as thick as boiled custard, 
stirring steadily all the time. Take off the fire and when 
quite cold stir in the cream and flavoring, and freeze. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 
Make a gallon of ice cream after any of the foregoing 
rules. Shave two bars of good chocolate in a little milk, 
sweeten to taste, and add to the ice cream when partly 
frozen, and then finish freezing. 

Prune Whip. 

Gook % pound prunes until soft, remove stones, run 
thr-ough fine colander, then take whites of five eggs, beat 
thoroughly. _ Add one cupful sugar to prunes, then .mix 
all together. Bake y% hour in moderate oven. Served 
cold in dish with whipped cream on top. 

Berry Ice Cream. 

Any kind of berries may be used for this. Mash thor- 
oughly in a large bowl one quart of berries with one 
pound of sugar, rub through a colander, add one quart of 
sweet cream, and freeze. Very ripe peaches may be used 
instead of berries. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 
To three quarts of pure^ cream add one pint decoction 
of very strong coffee and two pounds of sugar, and freeze. 

Orange Float. 
One pint water, one lemon pulp with juice, one small 
cupful sugar. When boiling add two tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch. Boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Pour over 
when cold three sliced oranges. Beat whites of two eggs. 
Sweeten, flavor and spread over top. 



DESSERTS 203 

Lemon Ice. 

Take the jmce of four lemons, one pound of sugar and 
one -quart of boiling water. Let cool, and just before 
freezing add the beaten whites of three eggs, and freeze. 

Orange Jelly. 
Grate the peel of one orange, and pour over it one pint 
of boiling water; when cool add the juice of four oranges, 
two cupfuls of sugar, one box of gelatine dissolved in a 
pint of water, strain and put into a mould. 

Maple Mousse. 
One cupful maple syrup, four eggs, one pint cream. 
Put syrup on stove and when heated, stir in beaten yolks 
for fifteen minutes. Then take off fire and stir until it 
thickens. It can now be beaten into the cream (which 
has been whipped stiff), and frozen in ice or with one 
tablespoonful of gelatine, whipped into the cream and 
left until it^sets. The whites of the eggs may be beaten 
and used as a meringue. 

* 

Pineapple Jelly. 

Pare a medium-sized pineapple, grate, add to it one 
quart of water and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes ; add 
to it 1% cupfuls of sugar, and two-thirds of a box of gel- 
atine, dissolved in a little cold water. Strain through a 
flannel bag and put into moulds and set in a cold place. 

Lemon Jelly. 
Put one box of gelatine in a bowl, and pour over it one 
coffee cupful of cold water, and let stand over night. In 
the morning grate the rinds of two lemons, use the juice 
of four,. and pour over it one pint of boiling hot water, 
two cupfuls of sugar, add to it the gelatine and one cup- 
ful of cold water. Strain. This must be made three or 
four hours before wanted. 



204 DBSSEBTS 

Boiled Custard. 
One quart of milk, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; scald the milk, beat the eggs and sugar together, 
add to the milk, boil for five minutes and flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 

Floating Island. 
Put one quart of milk in a double boiler, beat the yolks 
of six eggs, one teacupful of sugar and add to the boiling 
milk; flavor with two teaspoonfuls of lemon. Beat the 
whites of six eggs to a stifE froth, add two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar ; pour the custard into a dish, put the beaten eggs 
or island on top, and set in the oven for a few minutes, 
until slightly browned. 

Blanc Mange. 

Put into a double boiler one quart of sweet milk, and 
let come to a boil. Beat together four eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch, 1/4 of a cup of milk, and add to. 
the boiling milk. Cook for a few minutes, dip cups in 
cold water, then fill with the custard ; when firm turn out 
and serve with cream and sugar. Raisins, currants or 
candied fruit make a nice addition. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange. 
Put into the double boiler one quart of milk. Dissolve 
one bar of bitter chocolate, add to it two beaten eggs, 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar,, and three heaping table- 
spoonfuls of corn starch. Add to the boiling milk and 
boil for ten minutes. Rinse a mould with cold water, pour 
in the blanc mange and when firm turn out and serve with 
cream and sugar. 

Rice Cream. 
Take one pint of whipped cream and beat into it one 
cup of boiled rice (not quite cold) , and one- large table- 
spoonful of gelatine ; put into a mould and serve with the 



DESSERTS 205 

following sauce : Make a rich white sugar syrup and add 
a glass of orange marmalade, and pour around the out- 
turned mould. Other fruits ean be used in place of the 
orange marmalade. 

Charlotte Busse. 
Put two cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, and let come to 
a boil. Take the yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, beat together, stir into the boiling milk, and 
when thickened set the custard away to cool. Take ^ 
of a box of gelatine, and add to it one cupful of warm 
water, and set it on the back of the stove, but do not let 
it get hot. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, 
add 1% cupfuls of pulverized sugar. Whip two cupfuls 
of cream, and add it to the custard ; add flavoring to the 
beaten whites of the eggs and mix them with the custard, 
and last of all add the gelatine, and stir in thoroughly; 
take the dish in which the Charlotte russe is to be served, 
line with white sponge cake or lady fingers, pour the 
custard into it and set into the ice chest. This should be 
made two or three hours before serving. 

Charlotte Busse, No. 2. 

One pint sweet milk, one cupful sugar, % cup yeast, 
two eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Spanish Cream. 
Dissolve % of a box of gelatine in a little warm water. 
Put iy2 pints of milk in a double boiler, beat the yolks of 
three eggs with two-thirds of a cup of sugar, add to the 
milk and boil for a few minutes, then add the gelatine. 
Take from the fire and stir in the beaten whites of four 
eggs, and put into a mould, and when cold serve with 
whipped cream, 

Russian Cream. 
Jelly : To one package of gelatine add one pint of eold 
water, when dissolved add one pint of hot water, two cups 



206 DESSERTS 

of sugar, and the juice of six lemons ; stir slowly until well 
dissolved, then strain into moulds. 

Cream : Cov.er one package of gelatine with cold water, 
when dissolved add one cup of hew milk, one cup of sugar, ■ 
heat to boiling point, stirring frequently. Then set away 
to cool. Whip one quart of thick cream until light, beat 
the whites of six eggs and add both to the mixture. When 
cool flavor with vanilla. Place the jelly in the bottom of 
the moulds, and when stiff and cold add the cream; turn 
out of the moulds and serve in slices. 
Whipped Cream. 

Needed: To every pint of cream allow 3 ounces of 
powdered sugar, one glass' of sherry, or any kind of sweet 
white wine, the rind of % a lemon, the "white of one egg. 
Rub the sugar on the lemon rind and pound it in a mortar 
until quite fine, and beat up the white of the egg until 
quite stiff ; put the cream inra large bowl, with the sugar, 
wine, and beaten egg, and whip it to a froth ; as fast as the 
froth rises, take it off with a skimmer, and put it on a sieve 
to drain, in a cool place. This should be made the day be- 
fore it is wanted, as the whip is then so much firmer. The 
cream should be whipped in a cool place, and in summer, 
over ice, if it is obtainabe. A plain Whipped cream may 
be served on a glass dish and garnished with strips of 
angelica, or pastry leaves, or pieces of bright colored jelly, 
it makes a very pretty addition to the supper table. 

Spiced Grapes. 

Six pounds fruit, four pounds sugar, one pint vinegar,' 
two tablespoonfuls powdered cloves, two of powdered 
cinnamon. Pulp the grapes, boil the pulps, until the seeds 
loosen, then strain. Add skins and vinegar, boil to a 
thick jam; five minutes before taking up,* add the spices. 

Stewed Apples and Custard. 
Needed: Seven good sized apples, the rind of % a 
lemon or four cloves; % pound of sugar, % pint of water. 



DESSERTS 207 

Yz pint of custard. Pare and take out the cores of the 
apples, without dividing them, and, if possible leave the 
stalks on ; boil the sugar and water together for ten min- 
utes ; then put in the apples with the lemon rind or cloves, 
whichever flavor may be preferred, and simmer gently 
until they are tender, taking care not to let them break. 
Dish them neatly on a glass dish, reduce the syrup by boil- 
ing it quickly for a few minutes, let it cool a little ; then 
pour it over the apples. Have ready at least ^ pint of 
custard ; pour it round, but not over, the apples when they 
are quite cold, and the dish is ready for the table. A few 
almonds, blanched and cut into strips, and stuck in the 
apples, would improve their appearance. 

Stewed Pears. 
Take six or eight pears, water, sugar, two ounces of 
butter, the yolk of an egg, % ounce of gelatine. Peel and 
cut the pears in any form that may be preferred, and 
steep them in cold water to prevent their turning black ; 
put them into a saucepan with suiScient cold water to 
cover them, and boil them, with the butter and enough 
sugar to -sweeten nicely, until tender; then brush the 
pears over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle with sifted 
sugar, and arrange on a dish. Add the gelatine to the 
syrup, simmer it quickly for about five minutes, strain 
it over the pears, and let it remain until set. The syrup 
may be colored with a little prepared cochineal, which 
would greatly improve the appearance of the dish. 

Preserved Quinces. 
Pare and quarter the fruit ; boil in enough water to keep 
them whole ; when they are tender take them out^ and to 
each pound of quinces add one pound of white, sugar ; let 
stand with the sugar on until next day, when the syrup 
will be as light and clear as amber ; put them in the pan 
and let boil twenty minutes ; they never get hard. The 



208 DESSERTS 

water they were boiled in may be used to mak a jelly of 
the parings ; add one pound of white sugar to each pint 
of juice, and boil half an hour. 

Jelly With Oranges. 
Take one quart of any clear yellow jelly, six oranges, a 
little syrup, preserved cherries, angelica. Peel the or- 
anges and divide them into quarters, taking off all the 
white; coat a plain mould with the jelly, then lay in the 
oranges, each piece dipped in clear syrup, putting the 
angelica, cut into leaves, in the corners of the mould, and 
the cherries round the top and bottom, and between the 
pieces of orange ; fill up with jelly, and set on ice. 

Orange Custards. 

Needed: The juice of ten large oranges, a teaeupful of 
sifted sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, one pint of cream. 
Sweeten the orange juice with the sugar, and set it over 
the fire; stir constantly till hot, then skim it carefully, 
and set aside to cool. When nearly cold add the yolks of 
eggs beaten very light, and the cream. Put all into a sauce- 
pan, and stir over a very slow fire until thick. Pour into 
cups, and serve cold. If desired, the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff, with a teaeupful of pounded sugar may be 
used, a heaped tablespoonful on the top of each cup of the 
custard. 

Rice Snowballs. 

Needed : Six ounces of rice, one quart of milk, flavoring 
of essence of almonds, sugar to taste, one pint of custard. 
Boil the rice in the milk, with sugar and a flavoring of 
essence of almonds, until the former is tender, adding, if 
necessary, a little more milk, should it dry away too much. 
When the,.rice is quite soft, put it into teacups, or small 
round jars, and let it remain until cold ; then turn out the 
rice on a deep glass dish, pour over a custard, and on the 
top of each ball, place a small piece of bright colored pre- 



DESSERTS 209 

serve or jelly. Lemon peel or vanilla may be boiled with' 
rice instead of the essence of almonds, when either of these 
is preferred j but the flavoring of the custard must corre- 
spond with that of the rice. 

PUDDINGS. 

The New Nesselrode Pudding. 

One pint shelled almonds, l^/^ pints shelled chestnuts, 
one pint cream, one pint pineapples, % pound French 
candied fruit, one tablespoonful candied orange peel (pul- 
verized), one tablespoonful vanilla extract, four table- 
spoonfuls brandy or sherry wine, yolks of ten eggs, one 
pint water, one pint sugar. Blanch the almonds and 
pound to a paste. Boil the chestnuts % hour then rub off 
the black skin and pound to a paste. Boil the water, 
sugar and juice from the pineapple for twenty minutes — 
beat the yolks of the eggs and stir into the syrup beating 
all with an egg-beater until it thickens, take off and set 
in basin of cold water and beat ten minutes more — mix 
the almonds and chestnuts with the cream and rub all 
through a sieve, add fruit and pineapple cut fine, mix 
this with the cooked mixture, add the flavor and half 
teaspoonful of salt. Freeze the same as ice cream. This 
will make two quarts. 

English Plum Pudding. 

One poimd of suet chopped very fine, one pound of flour, 
one pound of bread crumbs, one pound of sugar, two 
pounds of raisins, stoned and chopped, two pounds of cur- 
rants, picked, washed and dried, one pound of figs, 
chopped fine, 14 pound of mixed citron and orange peel, 
sliced fine, one ounce of mixed spice, three tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, four beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of salt, one 
pint of brandy; mix all together with about a quart of 



210 DESSERTS 

milk, place in a pudding bag and boil in water for seven or 
eight hours. Boil steadily to prevent the pudding from 
absorbing the water. 

English Plum Pudding No. 2. 
Three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of bread crumbs, two 
and one-half cupfuls of beef suet, chopped very fine, four 
cupfuls of raisins, stoned and chopped, four cupfuls of 
currants, picked, washed and dried, two cupfuls of sugar, 
two ounces of citron, chopped fine, the juice of one lemon, 
and four beaten eggs. Dredge a pudding cloth with flour, 
put in the pudding, tie loosely, plunge in boiling water and- 
boil for eight hours. 

Prune Pudding. 
One-half pound prunes (stew in as little water as possi- 
ble), remove stones and chop fine. Add six eggs, whites 
beaten stiff and twelve tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar. 
Put mixture in pudding dish and bake ten or fifteen min- 
utes. (Serve hot or cold with whipped cream.) 

Cottage Pudding. 
One egg beaten very white ; ^^ cupful of butter, % cup 
of sugar, stirred together; one teaspoonful soda, dis- 
solved in one cupful of sweet milk; two teaspoonfuls 
cream tartar, rubbed into a pint of flour. 

Pig Pudding. 
One pound of figs, chopped fine, one quart of grated 
bread, one cupful of powdered sugar, % cupful of butter, 
four beaten eggs and two cupfuls of sweet milk; stir all 
together,- place in a pudding dish and steam for one and 
one-half hours. Serve with sauce. 

Fruit Pudding. 
One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sweet milk, % 
cupful of butter, one cupful of stoned and chopped raiisins, 



DESSERTS 211 

% cupful of currants, two and one-half cupf uls of flour, % 
teaspoonful of soda, y^, of a grated nutmeg and a pinch 
of salt. Mix well, and steam two hours. 

Fruit Pudding No. 2. 

Line a bowl with thin slices of bread and fill with fruit ; 
very ripe peaches are the best. Take one tablespoonful of 
gelatine and add I/2 cupful of cold water ; let soak for y^ 
hour, then add two cupfuls of sweet milk, one cupful of 
sugar, put in a saucepan and let come to a boil, pour over 
the fruit and bread" and set in a refrigerator. Serve cold 
with whipped cream. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Grate two cocoanuts, y^ pound butter, % pound sugar, 

yolks of four eggs; mix the butter and sugar, then stir 

in the cocoanut and add IV^ pints milk; put a paste in 

the dish and bake in a moderate oven, but not too long. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Two tablespoonfuls of tapioca put to soak over night in 
enough water to cover it. Put a quart of milk in a double 
boiler, beat the yolks of eggs and one cupful of sugar ; stir 
into the boiling milk and boil until it thickens. Put the 
tapioca into a pudding dish, pour the hot custard over the 
tapioca, mix the two together thoroughly and bake for % 
hour. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth with 
2/3 of a cupful of powdered sugar ; spread over the cus- 
tard, return to the oven and leave there until the frosting 
is a golden brown. Serve either hot or cold. 

Tapioca Pudding, No, 2. 
Without eggs or milk: Put one teacupful of tapioca 
and one teaspooirful of salt into a pint and a half of water 
and let them stand five hours, where it will be warm but 
not cooked. Two hours before dinner, peel six apples 
and take out cores. While dividing the apples, put them 



212 DESSERTS 

into a pudding dish and fill the holes with sugar in which 
is grated nutmeg. Add a teacupful of water and bak& 
one hour, turning the apples to prevent from drying. 
"When the apples are quite soft, pour over them the 
tapioca and bake one hour. Hard sauce, butter, sugar, 
stir to a cream. 

Tapioca Cream. 
Two ounces tapioca, soaked over night, cold water; 
boil one quart milk, add the tapioca,^ let it boil, add the 
yolks three eggs, beaten with ^/^ pint crushed sugar, 
boil and stir until like thick custard, season and put in 
the dish, when cold cover with the whites of the eggs with 
four tablespoonfuls sugar, brown lightly; eat when cold. 

Tapioca Ice. 

One cupful of tapioca soaked over night ; in the morjiing 
place upon the stove and when it begins to boil put in a 
large cupful of sugar and boil until it is clear. Clean a 
good sized pineapple free from all specks and chop fine ; 
pour the tapioca boiling hot over the pineapple and stir 
together. The hot tapioca will sufficiently moisten the 
pineapple ; pour into moulds or cups, and when cold serve 
with cream and sugar. 

Suet Pudding. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of suet chopped fine, one cupful 
of molasses, one cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of stoned 
raisins, % cupful of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one grated nutmeg. Mix all together 
thoroughly, put in a pudding dish and steam three hours. 
Serve with sauce. 

Suet Pudding No. 2. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of suet chopped fine, 2/3 of a 
cupful of molasses, y^ cupful of sour milk, V/s cupfuls of 



DESSERTS 213 

flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one of cloves, one of cinna- 
mon, one beaten egg, one cupful of stoned Taisins ; stir to- 
gether and boil or steam for three hours. 

Steamed Pork Pudding. 

Take ^ cupful salt pork, chopped fine, one cupful 
sugar, one cupful milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, ^^ 
teaspoonful soda, spice to taste. Steam two hours. 

Graham Pudding. 
One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sweet milk, one 
cupful of stoned raisins, one beaten egg, one tablespoonful 
of melted butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two cupfuls of 
Graham flour ; put in a pudding dish, steam for two hours, 
and serve with sauce. 

Fruit Bice Cream. 
Beat into one pint of whipped cream, one cupful of 
boiled rice (not quite cold) and one large tablespoonful 
of dissolved gelatine. Put into a mould and serve with 
following sauce: Make a rich white sugar syrup and 
add a glassful of orange marmalade, and pour around the 
out turned mould. Other fruits can be used. 

Charlotte Pudding. 
Grease a pudding dish with butter, put in a layer of 
bread crumbs, then a layer of sliced apples, pour over 
them a cupful of milk in which has been dissolved a piece 
of butter the size of an egg. Bake one hour. 

Coffee Pudding. 

One cupful molasses, % cup strong coffee, % cup but- 
ter, 21/^ cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, spices and fruit ; 
steam two hours. 

Sauce: One quarter cupful butter, one cupful sugar; 
work to a cream ; 1% cups water in a sauce pan ; when it 
boils thicken with flour like cream, then stir in the rest 
rapidly together. Flavor. 



214 DESSERTS 

Chocolate Pudding. 
One quart of milk and three ounces of grated chocolate, 
scalded together ; when cold, add the beaten yolks of five 
eggs and one cupful" of sugar. Bake twenty-five mitiuti'^. 
Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth with % euptul 
of powdered sugar ; spread upon the pudding, place in the 
oven and brown. 

Chocolate Pudding, No. 2. 
One, quart milk, stir three ounces sweet chocolate' 
grated fine; let it just boil, then remove from the fire, 
and while cooling beat five eggs, leaving out the white of 
three, stir these in the milk when cool, then add a piece 
of butter, size of a walnut, % cupful sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful vanilla ; bake in a deep dish as custard, take the white 
beaten to a froth with four teaspoons sugar and then 
put in the oven and brown. 

Sponge Pudding. 

Three cupfuls of flour, one and one-half cupfuls of but- 
ter, one cupful of milk, four eggs, one teaspoonf ul of soda, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. Beat the butter, sugar 
and yolks of the eggs together,- put the cream tartar into 
the flour and soda into the milk, mix all together and last 
add the beaten whites of the eggs and steam two hours. 

Corn Starch Pudding. 
Put into a double boiler one quart of milk and let come 
to a boil. Beat together five tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
two eggs, and one cupful of sugar, stir into the boiling 
milk and cook for five minutes; pour into a mould or cups 
and serve cold with whipped cream. 

Corn Starch Pudding, No. 2. , 

One quart milk, four tablespoonfuls of pulverized 
starch, three eggs beaten with three or four tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar, add a little salt, dissolve the starch m 



DESSERTS 215 

the miik, stir the eggs into th^ starch and while the milk 
is boiling, stir in the rest and keep stirring for five min- 
utes. Wet the moulds. 

Baked Corn Starch Pudding. 
To one quart boiling milk add five tablespoonfuls corn 
starch, wet with % pint cold milk ; when cool add four 
eggs and sugar. Flavor to taste. 

Famous Fig Pudding. 

Take six ounces of figs, six ounces of bread crumbs, ^ 
pound brown sugar, 14 cupful milk, one teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder, one large apple, i^ pound flour, % pound 
suet, two eggs and a little grated nutmeg. 

Boil the milk, pour over the bread crumbs, stir in the 
flour and the chopped suet, the eggs well beaten, the ap- 
ple and figs cut into small pieces, also the sugar, baking 
powder and nutmeg. 

Pour into buttered mold, cover with buttered paper 
and steam for two and a half hours. Serve with white 
sauce, with one or two chopped figs in it. 

Queen of Puddings. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one cupful of sugar, four 
eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, one quart of 
milk, put the bread crumbs into the milk, stir in the yolks 
of the eggs and the sugar beaten together, add the butter 
and bake for one hour. Cover the top of the pudding 
with a layer of jelly or fruit; make a frosting with the 
whites of four eggs and 2/3 of a cupful of powdered sugar ; 
spread this over the jelly and place in the oven and brown. 

Orange Pudding. 

Five sliced oranges, a layer of oranges, a layer of 

sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch; wet it with a 

little cold water; add one cupful of sugar and the juice 

gf oue lemon ; then pour the starch, lemon and sugar intp 



216 DESSERTS 

a pint of boiling water, boil a few minutes and when al- 
most cold, pour over the oranges and frost with the 
whites of three eggs, sweetened a little, then set in the 
oven a few minutes to lightly brown. 

Puff Pudding. 

One quart of milk, four beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of flour and a little salt ; stir all together and bake half an 
hour. Serve with sauce. 

Royal Apple Pudding. 

Use a well-greased pudding dish; pare as many apples 
as will cover the bottom of the dish. 

Before putting in dish cut off tips and lay aside. 
Scrape out the centers of apples, cut fine a few blanched 
almonds, and add currants, sugar and cinnamon; mix 
and fill in the apples; then put on the tips and set in 
dish. Take one cup of bread crumbs, yolks of five eggs, 
one cup of sugar, and add slowly the well beaten whites 
and pour over the apples. , Bake in moderate oven one 
hour. 

Sauce for pudding: juice of two lemons, one cup of 
sugar, yolks of two eggs, one gill of water. Set on stove. 
A little brandy added to filling of apples adds to flavor. 

Baked Rice Pudding. 

Put two cupfuls of rice into two quarts of milk and bake 
an hour. Beat together four eggs, 2/3 of a cupful of but- 
ter, two cupfuls of sugar-; stir into the partially cooked 
rice, add more milk, if necessary, and bake another hour. 

Rice Pudding. 
Take a good half teacupful of rice ; grate into it in a 
three-pint dish the quarter of a nutmeg. Add from two 
to three ounces of moist sugar. Pour on a quart of new 
milk, bake in a slow oven two hours and a -half. 



DESSERTS 217 

Rice Pudding Without Eggs. 
Put into a pudding dish one cupful of rice and three 
pints of milk, add one teacupful of sugar and bake for 
three hours ; stir thoroughly every ten or fifteen minutes. 
This is sometimes called creamed rice. 

Melba Cottage Pudding. 
Take % cupful of butter, one cup sugar ; two eggs ; one 
cup of milk, three cups of sifted pastry flour and three 
even teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the eggs, beaten extra light, and the milk 
alternately, with the flour sifted twice with the baking 
powder. Bake thirty minutes in buttered baking pan and 
cut in squares Avith a hot knife. 

Snow Pudding. 
Pour one pint of boiling water over i/^ box of gelatine, 
add the juice of one lemon, and one and one-half cupfuls 
of sugar. Strain, and when nearly cold stir in the whites 
of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Serve with a boiled 
custard. 

Snow Pudding, No. 2. 

One-half box gelatine, one pint boiling water. When 
dissolved, add two cupfuls of white sugar, stir well; 
when nearly cold, add the juice and grated rind of two 
lemons ; when perfectly cold, add the whites of five eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, pour the mixture in a mold and 
put in a cold place. 

Custard to be Eaten with Above. 

Yolks of the five eggs in a little more than a pint of 
milk; flavor with lemon juice; it should be thin. 

Snow Pudding, No. 3. 

Two-thirds box gelatine put to soak fifteen minutes in 
one cupful water, one cupful sugar, two lemons, 1% pintsj 



218 DESSERTS 

boiling water; let it cook a short time, strain it; add 
beaten whites two eggs, beat all together % hour; cool 
in mould and serve. 

Black Pudding. 

One cupful of molasses, one of butter, one of sugar, one 
of sour milk, three of flour, four eggs, one grated nutmeg, 
and one teaspoonful of soda. Beat the butter and sugar 
together, g,dd the eggs and molasses, then the sour milk 
and the soda dissolved in a little hot water, stir in the flour, 
put in a buttered pudding dish, and, steam two hours. 
Servewith wine sauce. 

Black Pudding, No. 2. 

One teaeupful molasses, one of butter, one of sugar, 
two of flour, ona of sour milk, one grated nutmeg, four 
eggs, -two teaspoonfuls of soda; mix butter and sugar to 
a cream; add eggs well beaten, then molasses, nutmeg, 
flour, sour milk and soda. Mix together. Steam three 
hours. 

Sauce : One cupful sugar, one' cupful cream, one cup- 
ful butter, a little milk, flavor ; copk and serve hot. 

Steamed Indian Pudding. 

Mix together two ctipfuls of meal, one of flour, one of 
suet chopped fine, one of stoned raisins, one of molasses, 
one of sweet milk ; add % teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
a little hot water, and a pinch of salt. Put in a buttered 
pudding dish, and steam three hours. 

Egg Pudding. 

Take one quart of milk, put in a double boiler and let 
come to a boil ; mix nine tablespoonf uls of flour with one 
pint of cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk and let it 
remain on the fire until well cooked. Beat the yolks of 
twelve eggs, six tablespoonfuls , of sugar, and three of 
melted butter. Take the boiler frpm tbp fire ^nd stir ia 



DESSERTS 219 

the eggs, sugar, etc., beat the whites of the eggs and stir 
them in. Butter a pudding dish, pour in the mixture, set 
the dish in a pan of hot water, put the whole in the oven 
and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Serve with 
Sauce. 

Cabinet Pudding. 
Take a two quart pudding dish and cover the bottom 
with a layer of stale cake, sprinkle over it a spoonful of 
chopped citron and bits of butter, then another layer of 
cake, citron and butter, until the dish is 2-3 full. Beat 
together three eggs, a wineglassful of brandy, the rind 
and juice of a lemon, y^ cupful of sugar, unless the cake 
is very sweet, and one quart of milk ; pour over the con- 
tents of the pudding dish and bake i^ hour, 

Moca Pudding. 
Take four eggs, % cupful flour, one cupful powdered 
sugar, one teaspoonful baking powder, two tablespoonfuls 
coffee essence. Beat yolks until creamy, add sugar, cof- 
fee essence, flour and baking powder. Then very care- 
fully cut and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of four 
eggs. Bake in two round cake tins, in a moderate oven 
30 to 40 minutes. 

Macaroni Pudding. 
A Delicious Winter Dish. 
For this dish a four inch deep round baking tin .is re- 
quired. Take 1% pounds of inch wide flat macaroni, 
soak for one hour in cold water and then drain off. Place 
in a pot sufficiently large to boil same for twenty minutes, 
adding a small pinch of salt to the water. For greasing 
the baking pan use goose-fat, or pure leaf lard or butter. 
Place a layer of the boiled macaroni, one inch deepj at 
bottom of pan; sprinkle this layer with 1% tablespoons 
of granulated sugar, mixed with a little powdered cirraa- 



220 DESSERTS 

mon and a few drops of esseneie of lemon, covering the lat- 
ter with a well beaten egg, and two teaspoons of melted 
butter ; continue on with another layer of macaroni in the 
same manner as before, and then add the balance of the 
macaroni. For the top layer of the pudding beat the egg, 
sugar, cinnamon and lemon together and add the melted 
butter. Place in quick* hot oven for forty minutes so that 
sides and bottom get well browned, covering the top with 
a soaked sheet of paper so that it will not burn. The 
macaroni must be left in as long pieces as possible and not 
broken. Raisins and currants can be added to each layer, 
greatly Improving the flavor. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 
Boil one quart of milk, and stir into it 2/3 of a cupful 
of meal and let it cook a few minutes, then take from the 
fire, and when cool stir in % cupful of sugar, i^ cupful of 
molasses, % cupful of butter, one egg, one teaspoonful of 
ginger, and y^ teaspoonful of cinnamon, and a pinch of 
salt. Put in a buttered pudding dish, and bake one hour. 

Mrs, Lottie Palmer's Indian Pudding. 
Take six tablespoonfuls corn meal, pour on it one quart 
boiling milk, % cupful sugar, % cupful molasses, one egg, 
% teacupful of raisins, butter size of egg, salt (ginger or 
cinnamon to taste), one pint cold milk (add cold milk just 
before going into oven) ; bake in slow oven, li^ hours. 

Minute Pudding. 
Let one quart of milk come to a boil, add a little salt, 
then stir into the milk four tablespoonfuls of flour, and 
three beaten eggs; cook for four or five minutes. Serve 
with cream and sugar. 

Tapioca Pudding with Apples. 
Put one/cupful of tapioca into % aj)int of water, and 
let it stand a. couple of hours, where it will be quite warm, 



DESSERTS 221 

but not eook. Peel six tart apples, take out the cores, place 
them in a pudding dish, and fill with sugar. Beat together 
two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, % of a cup- 
ful of milk, 2/3 of a cupful of sugar; stir this into the 
tapioca and pour the whole over the apples. Bake one 
hour, and serve with sauce. 

Cup Pudding. 

Take one pint bread crumbs, one cupful molasses, one 
cupful hot water, one cupful flour, one cupful raisins, 
one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful melter buter, one 
egg, salt, steam two hours. 

Apple Pudding. 

Pare and core apples, put them in a deep dish and make 
a crust as you would for soda biscuit and cover them; 
set it on the stove and cover tight; cook i^ hour, 

Apple Dumpling. 

Measure four cupfuls of flour, put in two teaspoonfuls 
of cream tartar, and two of soda, sift two or three times, 
then rub in a lump of butter the size of a walnut, then stir 
in two cupfuls of sour milk, turn out on the board and 
work into a smooth dough, roll out to % an inch in thick- 
ness, and cut in three or four inch squares, put some sliced 
apple in the middle of each one, bring the corners together, 
pinch up the openings and cook. These dumplings are 
very nice, either boiled, baked or steamed, and will re- 
quire about y% hour to cook. Serve with cream and sugar 
if baked, and with a boiled sauce if steamed or boiled. 



LSAUCES-PUDDINGS^ 



Sauce for Suet Pudding. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, beaten to a 
cream ; add the beaten yolk of one egg, grate in i^ a nut- 
meg; then stir in a tablespoonful of boiling water, and 
flavor with a little wine or brandy. Place where it will 
keep warm and just before serving add the well-beaten 
white of one egg. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Take one large tablespoonful of butter, one of flour, and 
one cupful of sugar; beat all together to a cream, then 
pour over it one cupful of boiling water, taking from the 
fire ; add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Flavor with 
lemon. 

Lemon Sauce, No. 2. 

Boil one cup of sugar in a cup of water, one table- 
spoonful of corn stareh wet with cold water ; let this boil 
ten minutes, ~ then add a tablespoonful of butter; when 
nearly cold, add the juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
To be eaten with steamed fruit pudding. 

Fruit Sauce. 
Boil fruit, berries, or any other kind until soft, rub 
through a sieve and add enough sugar to s,weeten, then 
boil until clear. This is a nice sauce for cornstarch pud- 
ding, blanc mange, or plain steamed puddings. 

222 



SAUCES AND PUDDINGS 223 

Custard Sauce. 

Put one pint of milk into a double boiler and let come to 
a boil. Beat the yolks of five eggs, one small tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, one cupful of sugar ; stir it into the boil- 
ing milk and cook for three or four minutes; flavor with 
lemon or vanilla, and use when cold. 

Caramel Sauce. 
Put one cupful of sugar into a small saucepan and add 
to it a lump of butter the size of an egg ; let it boil for ten 
minutes; then add 1% cupfuls of water, and one beaten 
egg, stirring all the time. 

Plain Sauce. 
Be^t together one cupful of sugar with the yolks of two 
eggs; then add the whites beaten to a stiff froth; flavor 
with a wine -glass of wine, or half of a grated nutmeg ; add 
a small teacupful of boiling water, and stir constantly. 

Wine Sauce. 
Put a teacupful of water into a saucepan and let it boil ; 
beat together one cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one tablespoonf ul of flour and the yolk of one egg ; 
stir into the boiling water, and when cooked and slightly 
cool, add one gill of wine. 

Vinegar Sauce. 

One and one-half cupfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour wet in a little water, two tablespoonfuls of vin- 
egar, 14 of a nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt ; mix well to- 
gether and pour over the whole lYz pints of hot water, and 
let boil ten minutes. 

Brandy Sauce. 

Take one tablespoonful of baked flour, three ounces fresh 
butter, one tablespoonful moist sugar, % pint of boiling 
water, one wineglassful of brandy. Work the flour and 



224 SAUCES AND PUDDINGS 

butter together with a wooden spoon, then stir in the boil- 
ing w^ter and sugar, boil gently for ten minutes, then add 
the brandy. 

Cherry Sauce. (For Sweet Puddings. German Recipe.) 

Take one pound of ripe cherries, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one ounce of butter, % pint of water, one wineglass- 
ful of port, a little grated lemon rind, four pounded cloves, 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, sugar to taste. Stone 
the cherries, and pound the kernels in a mortar to a smooth 
paste ; put' the butter and flour into a saucepan ; stir them 
over the fire until of a pale brown ; then add the cherries, 
the pounded kernels, the wine, and the water. Simmer 
these gently for a quarter of an hour^ or until the cherries 
are quite cooked, and rub the whole through a hair" sieve ; 
add the remaining ingredients, let the sauce boil for an- 
other five minutes, and serve. This is a delicious sauce to 
serve with boiled batter pUdding, and when thus used, 
should be poured over pudding before serving. 

Raspberry Sauce. (For Simple Puddings.) 

Ingredients : Four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of flour, ^4 
pound of loaf sugar, one pint of fresh raspberry juice. 
Beat the eggs well, and smooth the flour with a little wa- 
ter ; then put aU into a saucepan, add the sugar and rasp- 
berry juice. Put the pan onto the fire, and lightly whisk 
the contents till they thicken. They will become light 
and frothy, and should be served at once. 

Zwetschen Sauce. (Piquant Sauce for Plain Puddings.) 

Take % pound of best French prunes, one glass of wine, 
juice of one lemon and part of rind, % teaspoonful pow- 
dered cinnamon, sugar to taste.- Simme'r the prunes in a 
saucepan with just enough water to cover them, until soft. 
Then remove them from the pan, take out the stones, 
crack them, and save the kernels ; then return the fruit to 



SAUCES AND PUDDINGS 225 

the pan, add the other ingredients, simmer for seven or 
eight minutes, then strain through a coarse sieve, adding 
more wine or water, if too thick. 

A Good Sauce for Various Boiled Puddings. 

Use % pound of butter, ^ pound of pounded sugar, a 
wineglassful of brandy or rum. Beat the butter to a cream 
until no lumps remain ; add the pounded sugar, and brandy 
or rum; stir once or twice until the whole is thoroughly 
mixed, and serve. This sauce may either be poured round 
the pudding or served in a tureen, according to the taste 
or^aney of the cook or mistress. 

Wine Sauce. 

Take .one cupful of sugar, % cupful of butter, i/^ cupful 
of wine, one egg ; beat butter, sUgar and egg together ; set 
on stove, and when heated pour in the wine ; add a little 
nutmeg; pour from one dish to another a few times, and 
send to the table. 

Foaming Sauce. 

Take % cupful each of sugar and butter; beat to a 
froth ; put into a dish and set in a pan of hot water ; add 
a tablespoonful of hot water, or if preferred, a little 
vanilla ; stir one way until it comes to a very light foam. 




Cucumber Pickles. 

Take two hundred cucumbers rather under medium 
size ; wash and put in a stone jar. Put in a porcelain or 
granite kettle, two gallons of good cider vinegar, one cup- 
ful of salt, eight ounces of horseradish, two ounces of 
alum, one ounce of mustard, one ounce of allspice, and 
one ounce of cloyes;'*heat all together boiling hot, and 
pour over with green horseradish or cabbage leaves. In 
a week's time drain off the vinegar, scald, and put back on 
the pickles, then cover with a flannel cloth. 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles. 

Pare and cut the. cucumbers, and scrape out the seeds. 
Put the pieces in a stone jar^ and cover with salt and wa- 
ter, not too strong; let stand for a day or two, changing 
the water once or twice ; take out, and drain ; then let it 
stand in fresh water for a few hours; then boil them in 
vinegar until tender^ skim out carefully, and put in a 
stona jar. Make a syrup of one quart of vinegar"; four 
pounds of sugar, one ounce of cassia buds, and a table- 

226 



PICKLES AND PEESBRVBS 227 

spoonful of ground cinnamon ; boil until the syrup is clear, 
and pour over the cucumbers. This amount of syrup is 
enough for three quarts of the cucumbers after they are 
boiled. 

Chow Chow. ^ 
Chop one peck of green tomatoes fine. Sprinkle a large 
cupful of salt over them, and let stand over night. In the 
morning put in a sieve and drain; then take six large 
green peppers, six large onions, six or eight stalks of cel- 
ery, and chop all fine, and put in a porcelain kettle with 
the chopped tomato ; put in with them two teaspoonfuls 
each of ground mustard, cinnamon and cloves; add % 
teaspoonful of mace, two pounds of brown sugar, and 
enough vinegar to cover all. Simmer for two hours, stir- 
ring occasionally. Put up in glass or stone jars. 

Sweet Chow Chow. 
One gallon cabbage, two quarts green tomatoes, one pint 
of onions, ^ cup green peppers ; chop all fine and add l^/^ 
pounds of sugar, one tablespoonful of mustard, one of 
ginger, two of cloves, two of salt, three tablespoonfuls or 
three or four sticks of cinnamon. Put all in three quarts 
of vinegar and boil until cabbage is tender. 

Mustard Pickles. 
Take two quarts small green cucumbers, two quarts of 
small green tomatoes, cut in halves or quarters ; one quart 
of very small onions, two quarts of cauliflower, cut in small 
pieces. Let them stand over night in a weak brine, and in 
the morning cook each separately until tender. Put all 
together in a stone jar, and pour over them a mixture made 
as follows : Put on the fire one gallon of good cider vin- 
egar, and let c6me to a boil ; mix together one large cupful 
of flour, one pound of ground mustard, and three cupfuls 
of sugar;, stir into the boiling vinegar, let it cook for two 
or three minutes ; then pour the vegetables into the jar. 
These pickles will keep for a year. 



228 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

Green Tomato Pickles. 

Slice one-half bushel of green tomatoes as thin as pos- 
sible, and let stand in strong salt and water for twenty- 
four hours ; take out carefully, and put in fresh cold water, 
and let stand for twelve hours ; take out and drain ; put on 
more cold water, and let stand for twelve hours longer; 
take out and drain, and . boil in fresh water until it 
is tender enough to cut easily with a fork or 
spoon; take out carefully, and drain once more. 
Make a syrup of y^, gallon of vinegar, eight pounds 
of nice brown sugar, ^ tablespoonful of every kind of 
spice, one tablespoonful of whole mustard seed. Let all 
boil together for ten minutes; then put in the tomatoes 
about a quart at a time, and boil for fifteen minutes ; skim 
out carefully, and put in a stone jar; put more tomatoes 
in the vinegar, and proceed as before until all are cooked ; 
then boil down the syrup a few minutes, and pour over the 
tomatoes. These pickles are delicious, and will keep for 
months. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles. 

Weigh off seven pounds of nice, firm, medium sized to- 
matoes; take off the skins' by scalding; stick six or eight 
whole cloves in each one, and place in a jar. Put two 
quarts of good cider vinegar in a preserving kettle, add 
five pounds of nice brown sugar, a few sticks of cinnamon, 
and a tablespoonful of bruised ginger root; let all boil 
together for fifteen minutes; then pour boilin'g hot over 
the tomatoes ; cover with a plate, and put a weight on to 
keep the tomatoes under the vinegar. 

Tomato Preserves. 

Cut SIX lemons in slices,' and boil until tender in three 

pints of water; then skim out, and put in ten pounds of 

sugar, and let it boil until the sugar is all dissolved ; then 

put in ten pounds of peeled and sliced tomatoes, and boil 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 229 

for Yz hour ; put back the lemons, and boil for ten or fif- 
teen minutes longer. Put in jars, and cover closely. Part- 
ly ripe tomatoes are better than ripe ones for these pre- 
serves. A little ginger root boiled vrith. the lemons im- 
proves the flavor. 

Sliced Green Tomato Pickle. 
One-half peck green tomatoes (unpeeled), one pint 
sugar, lYz pints vinegar, one tablespoon cinnamon; one 
tablespoon whole allspice, handful whole cloves, little nut- 
meg and dry mustard, two or three small green peppers, 
three large onions. Boil % hour, or till tender. 

Tomato Chutney. 

Cut up and peel twelve large tomatoes, six onions 
chopped fine, one cup vinegar, one cup sugar, handful of 
raisins, chopped fine, salt to taste, % teaspoon of cayenne, 
% teaspoon white pepper. Boil 1% hours, bottle or put in 
stone jar. . 

Spiced Tomatoes. 

Put in a por.celain kettle one pint of good cider vinegar, 
four pounds of sugar, Yz ounce of cloves, and one ounce 
of cinnamon in a thin muslin bag and let boil until clear, 
then put in seven pounds of whole tomatoes (peeled) and 
boil for two hours. Put in a stone jar. It will keep for 
months. 

Tomato Catsup. 
Scald and peel ripe tomatoes, cook until soft, and press 
through a sieve. To one gallon of the tomato add one pint 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of mustard, one of allspice, one of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful of black pepper, one (5f ground cloves, and one 
red pepper pod without seeds. Simmer an hour or more, 
put in jugs and cork tight. 



230 PICKLES AND PRfiSERVfiS 

Chili Sauce. 

Five large onions, eight- green peppers, thirty ripe to- 
matoes, all chopped fine ; add to them five tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, three of salt, and eight cupf uls of vinegar ; mix 
all together, and boil 2^^ hours. Put in glass jars. 

Piccalilli. 
Chop very fine one peck of green tomatoes, two small 
heads of cabbage, three green peppers, four onions, six 
large cucumbers ; put all in a large stone jar, and sprinkle 
over it a teacupful of salt and let stand over night. In the 
morning drain and scald in one quart of vinegar and two 
quarts of water ; take out with a skimraer, and drain in a 
sieve. Make a syrup of three quarts of vinegar and four 
pounds of .sugar, and let all boil together for thirty piin- 
utes. Put up in glass or stone jars. 

Pickled Nasturtiums. (A Very Good Substitute for 
. Gapers.) 

Use to each pint of vinegar, one ounce of salt, six pepper- 
corns (nasturtiums). Gather the nasturtium pods on a' 
dry day, and wipe them clean with a cloth ; put them in a 
dry glass bottle, with vinegar, salt and- pepper, in the 
above proportions. If you cannot find enough ripe to fill 
a bottle, cork up what you have until you have more; 
they may be added from day to day. Bung up the bot- 
tles, and seal or rosin the tops. They will be ready for 
use in ten or twelve months • and the best way is to make 
them one season for the next. 

Pickled Gherkins. 
Let the gherkins remain in salt and water for three or 
four days, then take them out, wipe perfectly dry, and put 
them into a stone jar. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover 
them, with spices and pepper, etc., in. the above propor- 
tion, for ten minutes ; pour it, boiling hot, over the gher- 



PICKLES AND PEESERVES 231 

kins, cover the jar with vine leaves, and. put over them a 
plate, setting them near the fire, where they must remain 
all night. Next day drain off the vinegar, boil it up 
again, and pour it hot over them. Cover up with fresh 
leaves, and let the whole remain till quite cold. Now tie 
down closely with bladder to exclude the air, and in a 
month or two they will be ready for use. 

Citron or Melon Preserves. 
Take thick watermelon or citron rind, and cut in strips 
about three inches long, and % inch thick, until you have 
five pounds, and let them stand in cold water for two or 
three hours. Make a syrup of five pounds of best white 
sugar, and two quarts of water, and squeeze in the juice 
of six lemons, and add the grated rind of three ; let boil 
for fifteen minutes, then strain ; heat again and stir in the 
beaten white of an egg, and skim off as it rises ; the syrup 
should be of a nice lemon color, and as clear as amber ; put 
in the citron, which should be drained and dry, and cook 
until tender. Skim out the melon carefully, and add to 
the syrup a pound of best raisins, boil for two to three 
minutes, and pour over the melon. Great care must be 
taken to remove every particle of stem from the raisins 
and to wash them thoroughly, so that there will be no 
dark specks in the clear syrup. 

Martha Washington's Favorite Mushroom Ketchup. 

Take freshly-gathered large mushrooms, wash and peel ; 
cut them in two or four pieces according to size ; place in 
a wide flaf jar or crock in layers, sprinkling each layer 
with salt, and let stand for twenty-four hours ; then take 
out and press out ; save the juice ; put the mushrooms back 
in the jar again in another twenty-four hours, press again ; 
save juice ; bottle and cork mushrooms. • Next day empty 
from bottles and press again ; mix together all the juice 
extracted ; add to it pepper, allspice, several cloves, pow- 



232 PICKLES AND PEBSERVES 

dered together; boil all and skim as long as any skum 
rises ; when cool bottle, putting in each bottle' two cloves 
and a pepper-corn. Cook and seal. Put in a dry place 
will keep for years. 

Blackberry Fickle. 

Seven pounds of fruit, five pounds white sugar, one pint 
of best cider vinegar, and cook until the berries are done. 
Skim out the berries, boil the juice until thick as good 
syrup, pour over berries, cover and keep in cool, not cold, 
place. These will keep a long time, and need not be sealed 
up, as they will keep without. Raspberry jam'will keep, 
too, if cooked thoroughy in common earthen jars, simply 
covering to keep free from dust: 

Preserved Peaches. 

Take ripe (not soft) peaches; weigh equal quantities 
of fruit and sugar, put them together over night in earth- 
em bowl or dish (first peel the peaches and stone them). 
In morning, pour off the syrup, boil few minutes ; set off 
the kettle, take off scum. Put back kettle on fire, when 
syrup boils up put in peaches. Boil slowly % of an hour. 
Take out and put in jars. Boil syrup fifteen minutes 
more and pour over them. 

Caution: Don't add any water. 

Watermelon Pickles. 

Ten pounds watermelon rinds boiled in water until 
they are tender, drain the water off, then make a syrup 
of two pounds of sugar, one quart vinegar, % ounce 
cloves and one ounce cinnamon, the syrup to be bjjiled 
and poured over melons. 

Pineapple Preserves. 

Have your pineapples as ripe as they can be procured; 
pare and cut in thiji slices and cu^; each slice in quarters j 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 233 

be very cai^eful to remove every particle of the skin, for if 
all is not removed it will cause the preserves to look 
specky. "Weigh the fruit and allow a pound of sugar for 
every pound of fruit. Put a layer of the pineapple in a 
large earthen dish, then a layer of sugar, and so on until 
all the fruit is in the dish ; put a layer of sugar on top, and 
let stand over night. In the morning drain off the juice 
and put in a preserving kettle ; stir in the beaten white of 
an egg and skim as it comes to a boil. Let it boil for ten 
minutes, then pour boiling hot over the pineapple, cover, 
and let it stand and grow cold. When thoroughly cold 
put in glass jars and seal. 

Brandied Peaches. 

Take a peck of nice peaches not too ripe and take off 
the skins by scalding with hot water. "Weigh the fruit 
and allow a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Make 
a syrup of the sugar, allowing two-thirds of a cupful of 
water to each pound of sugar. Let the syrup come to a 
boil, skim and when clear put in the fruit and let them 
cook until they can be pierced with a straw ; then take out 
one at a time, and place carefully in a jar. Let the syrup 
boil a few minutes, then put in two quarts of brandy and 
boil for a few minutes longer, then pour over the peaches. 
Put up in glass jars, if preferred. 

Preserved Fruit. 
In preserving, those fruits that are naturally sweet, re- 
quire only % pouiid of sugar to one of fruit, while those 
fruits that are very acid require pound for pound. Small 
fruits are boiled down with the syrup until ihe syrup is 
thick and clear, then taken from the fire and put in jars ; 
while the larger fruits, such as pears, quinces, plums, and 
peaches, are boiled in the syrup until they look clear and 
are tender, then skimmed out carefully and put in a jar. 
Allow the juice to boil until thick, then pour over the fruit. 
Cover with paper wet in brandy. 



234 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

Pickled Apples. 

Peel, quarter, and core nice sweet apples until you have 
five pounds ; put them in a stewpan, cover with water, and 
cook until tender ; lift out carefully with a skimmer and, 
put on an earthen dish. Make a syrup of three pounds of 
sugar, and one pint of vinegar,^ add some stick cinnamon, 
and a few cloves ; boil until clear, then put in the apples' 
and cook slowly for twenty or thirty minutfis. Put in- 
glass cans. 

Plum Catsup. 

Put in a preserving kettle sis pounds of plums, 3% 
pounds of sugarj and one quart vinegai?; boil until, the 
plums are reduced to a pulp ; cool and press through a 
sieve, then add cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and allspice to 
taste. Put up in glass jelly cups. 

Grape Catsup. 

Five pounds of grapes, boiled to a pulp and sifted, add 
two pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and one teaspoonful 
of pepper. Boil two hours and put up in glass. 

Canned Fruit. 
In canning fruit be sure to have it good and fresh. If at 
all decayed or fermented, it will cause the fruit to work 
after it is canned. Allow one cupful of suga,r to a quart 
can of peaches, pears, cherries and raspberries, and two 
cupfuls to strawberries, grapes, gooseberries and iruit 
that is very tart. Make a syrup of the sugar and some 
water, and let it boil before putting in the fruit. The 
more juicy the fruit is, the less water will be required. 
Boil the 'fruit until cooked through, but not long enough 
to be'come mussy; have your can full of hot water, and 
, when ready to fill "with fruit, pour out the water and set it 
in a basin partly filled with hot water, put in the fryit 



tlCELES ANI) preserves ^35 

with a fruit funnel, and when filled wipe off the can with 
a damp cloth, put on the rubber and top hot and screw 
down ; tip the can bottom side up and if no juiee escapes it 
is airtight, but if there is a flow of juice press down the 
lower edge of the cover with an iron spoon handle ; if this 
is not effectual add another rubber, or change the cover. 
In canning strawberries plunge them ia the hot syrup and 
boil briskly at least thirty or forty minutes ; this will pre- 
vent them from losing their shape and color after they 
are canned. Pears should be put in cold water as soon as 
peeled, to prevent discoloration. 

Alice's Mustard Pickles. 

Take twenty-five cucumbers, if small leave whole, if 
not, cut small; one quart small onions; two heads cauli- 
flower. Cut in smaU pieces eight green peppers, cut fine 
without seeds J two quarts of firm green tomatoes cut 
small; put in salt and water and let stand over night; 
scald up in same water, drain and mix with the follow- 
ing: 2% quarts of cider vinegar, three cups sugar, % 
cup flour, % pound mustard. Mix these ingredients with 
part of the cold vuiegar. 

Have the rest of vinegar boiling, then pour this on and 
let cook long enough to cook the flour, turn ovew the 
pickles and let come to a boil. This is extra fine. 

Fruit Jellies. 
Boil the fruit with as little water as possible, and 
squeeze in a jelly bag. Allow a pound of sugar to a pint 
of juice, and boil until it jellies, which is usually in flfteen 
or twenty minutes. Pour in cans or glasses, and leave un- 
covered until cold. If the jelly fails to thicken as much as 
is desirable when cold, set the glasses in the sun for two 
or three days, leaving off the covers. 

Jams. 
Crush the fruit with a potato masher, and allow a pound 
of sugar to a pint of the crushed fruit. Bring to a boil 



236 PICKLES AND PRESEEVES 

slowly to prevent scorching, and boil until thick and clear. 
Put up in glass. 

Orang^e Marmalade, No. 1. 

Twelve oranges sliced extra fine ; to eVery quart of or- 
anges, three pints water; let stand until next day, then 
boil until the rind is tender; then let them stand another 
day ; to .every pint oranges, allow one pound sugar and 
boil two hours or until it jellies. 

Orange Marmalade, No. 2. 

Twelve pounds sour oranges, twelve poimds sugar; 
pare the oranges; use only half the peel; ptit the peel in 
cold water and boil until tender ; squeeze all the juice 
from the orange, cut the pulp in pieces and cover with, 
three pints of water and boil % hour, then strain through 
a colander; add ,iuice and sugar, boil one hour; chop the 
boiled peel extra fine and add while cooking; the mix- 
ture should be quite thick; 

Orange Marmalade No. 3. 

Take two dozen sour oranges, and take off the peel, cut 
in halves across the sections, take out the seeds, and weigh. 
Take as many pounds of sugar as you have pounds of 
fruit, and put in a preserving kettle with enbugh water to 
dissolve. Bring to a boil slowly, to prevent scorching, and 
boil for ten or fifteen minutes. "While the syrup is boiling, 
grate half a cupful of the yellow part of the orange peel, 
and when the syrup has boiled the requisite time, put in 
tlie orange and grated peel. Boil fifteen minutes longer, , 
and put in glass jars or cups. 

Syrup for Spiced Fruit. 

One pint of vinegar, 3% pounds of sugar, cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice, tied in a thin muslin bag and boiled in 
the syrup. Pears, peaches, cherries, plums, grapes, can all 



PICKLES AND PEBSERVES 237 

be spiced or pickled in this syrup ; it always gives satisfac- 
tion. Allow about seven pounds of fruit to the above 
amount of syrup. 

Apple Marmalade. 
Take green fruit, sour, equal quantities of apples and 
sugar, cook the apples (a peck before they are cored) with 
a little water, and two lemons. When thoroughly cooked 
sift, add the sugar, boil fifteen minutes, and can. Much 
better than the ripe fruit, and it looks clearer. Common 
sour apples that are juicy, or crab apples, are the best for 
this purpose. 

Canning. 

The proportions of sugar to fruit used in canning and 

preserving vary greatly. (See Preserved Fruits.) The 

amount of sugar given below is about an average for 

canning. These canned fruits are excellent for pies, etc. 

SUGAR TO A QUART JAR. 

Ounces. Ounces. 

Cherries 6 Grap'^s 6 to 8 

Strawberries 6 to 8 Peaches 4 

Raspberries 4 Pineapples 4 to 6 

Blackberries 5 to 6 Crab apples .^....6 to 8 

Quinces 8 to 10 Plums *. . . 4 

Pears 4 to 6 Pieplant 8 to 10 




Cream Candy. 
Take one pound of white sugar, one cupful of water, 
% teaspoonful of cream tartar, two teaspoonfuls of vin- 
egar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, butter the size of an 
egg ; boil until it hardens when dropped into water. Pour 
upon a buttered platter and when nearly cold, pull. 

Sugar Candy. 

Take two cupfulsof "A" coffee sugar, 1/3 cupful good 
vinegar, 2/3 cupful of water; boil without stirring. until 
it crisps in cold water. Turn out upon a buttered platter" 
and pour the desirefl flavor over it.^ "When sufficiently 
cool pull until white and light, pulling directly from you 
without twisting. Have the hands clean and dry ; do not 
use butter on them. This rule is varied by using different 
flavorings, and makes excellent candy by pouring it over 
nuts or popcorn. 

French Creams. 
Take two cupfuls of granulated sugar, add to it % cup- 
ful of milk, set upon the stove and bring slowly to a boil 
and boil for five minutes ; take off the fire and set in a 
pan of cold water, stir rapidly until it creams. Shape 
into balls with the hands and put nuts on top of some of 
the creams; or it can be arranged in layers and, figs' or 

23S 



CANDIES 239 

dates placed between ; then cut in squares. Fine chocolate 
creams can be made of this mixture by dipping the balls 
into melted chocolate, leaving until cold upon buttered 
white paper. 

French Creams No. 2. 
Break the white of an egg into a glass and add an 
equal quantity of milk or water; then stir in enough 
XX X X confectioners' sugar to make sufficiently stiff to 
roll into shape ; about 1^ pounds will be needed ; use dif- 
ferent flavorings to make a variety. 

Walnut Chocolate Candy. 
Take two cupfuls sugar, two squares chocolate, butter 
size of large egg, one cupful walnuts broken small, one 
cup (not full) milk. Cook six minutes over hot fire, take 
off, beat imtil it begins to sugar (the milk, butter, choco- 
late and sugar), add nuts to give the desired flavor. 

Chocolate Caramels. 
One cupful of grated chocolate, one cupful of brown 
sugar, one cupful of molasses, % cupful of sweet milk; 
boil until it hardens when dropped in water. Then add 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, and one cupful of 
chopped English walnut meats ; pour into a buttered pan, 
and when partly cold cut in squares. 

Kisses. 
Two cupfuls of powdered sugar, the whites of three 
eggs, two cupfuls of cocoanut, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder ; mix all together, drop upon buttered paper, 
and bake until slightly brown in a brisk oven. 

Merry Widow Kisses. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, add % 
pound of fine white sugar and flavor to taste with bitter 
almonds or vanilla and beat all together. Drop by the 
spoonful on white paper and bake in a slow oven, ten 
to fifteen minutes. 



240 CANDIES 

Crystalized Popcorn. 

Put into an iron kettle one tablespoonf ul of butter, 
three tablespoonfuls of water and one teaeupful of white 
sugar; boil until ready, to candy, then throw in three 
quarts of nicely popped corn, stir briskly until the candy 
is evenly distributed over the corn. Care should be taken 
not to have too hot a fire, or the corn will be scorched 
while crystalizing. Nuts of any kind may be treated in 
the same way. 

Fudge. 

Three cupfuls sugar, one cupful sweet milk, % to cup- 
ful grated chocolate, butter size of English walnut ;, have 
a steady hot fire, start milk, sugar, chocolate and boil 
twenty to twenty-five minutes; when about ready to take 
off, add butter; take off, set in pan of cold water, stir 
until it shows signs of setting ; then turn in greased pan. 

Molasses Candy. 

Take four cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of molasses 
and % cupful of vinegar; boil until it crisps in cold wa- 
ter, then stir in one tablesf)Oonful of baking soda. Pour 
into well buttered dishes, leave until sufficiently cool, 
then pull. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Six eggs beaten stiff, one pound sugar, one pound 
grated cocoanut; beat well together; flbur your hands 
and make into little cakes, grate sugar over them, bake 
quick. 

Nougat. 
Almonds and other nuts for nougat should be blanched, 
drained and skinned some time before they are chopped. 
The nougat is made by melting pounded sugar in a cop- 
per sugar boiler, putting a dessertspoonful of lemon 
juice to each pound, then adding double the weight of 



CANDIBS 241 

sugar in almonds, either colored or white, filberts, or pis- 
tachios, and a little sweet liquor. The almonds or nuts 
should be hot when put into the syrup. For lining 
moulds, small pieces of the nougat should be pressed in 
with a lemon till the mould is covered, when the nougat 
should be turned out. 

Nellie's Cream Nut Fudge. 

Take three teacups full of white sugar, one teacup full 
of milk, or enough to cover, butter size of walnut, let it 
boil and when a little of it dropped in cold water becomes 
medium hard it is done. Then add three-fourths cup of 
English walnuts, chopped fine, little vanilla, stir con- 
stantly until cool, pour into buttered plate and cut into 
squares 

Fig Candy. 

Put two cupfuls of sugar and 2/3 cupful of water in 
kettle on stove to boil; do not stir while boiling; boil to 
amber color, and just before taking from fire stir in ^ 
teaspoonful cream of tartar. Wash figs, open, lay in a 
tin pan and pour the candy over them. A daiuty con- 
fection. 

Orange Drops 

Grate the rind of one orange and squeeze out the juice, 
taking care to reject the seeds ; mix juice with grated rind, 
and add a pinch of tartaric acid ; then stir in sugar until 
it is stiff enough to form into small baUs the size of a 
marble. A delicious candy. 

Jujube Paste. 
Take two cupfuls sugar, ^4 pound gum arabict one pint 
of water. Flavor with essence of lemon. Let mixture 
stand until gum arable is dissolved, in warm place, on back 
of stove ; then place over fire and let cook till thick ; try 
in cold water ; should be limber and bend when cold.' Pour 
in buttered pans, % inch thick; when cool, roll up in a 
scroll. 




Ooifee. 

In preparing tea and coffee, it is of the first importance 
, to begin right.- > See that the teakettle is clean, and the 
water pure. A teakettle that is filled with lime, or other 
sediment, is unfit for use, and water that has stood in the 
house over night, or for some hours, is impure. To begin, 
then, rinse the teakettle thoroughly and fill with fresh 
water, put on the fire and bring to a boil quickly. For 
coffee, procure of a good reliable dealer a mixture, of 
1/3 Mocha, to 2/3 Java, freshly roasted and ground. 
Allow a tablespoonful of ground coffee for every 
person to be served, and put in an extra spoonful for 
"every five or six persons. If an ordinary pot is used, mix 
the coffee with an egg, put it in the coffee pot and add to 
it about a cupful of cold water; set it on the stove and 
bring to a boil quickly. The moment it begins to boil, 
add boiling water (about two quarts to five spoonfuls of 
ground coffee) and set it on the back part of the stove 
where it will keep hot, but on no account allow it to boil, 
as that destroys the aroma. The coffee will be ready to 

242 



BEVERAGES 243 

serve in six or eight minutes after the hot water has been 
added. If a drip coffee pot is used, the coffee must be 
ground very fine. Good directions usually accompany the 
different kinds of coffee pots in use. However, great care 
must be taken to keep the strainer, whether made of cloth 
or wire, clean and free from all obstruction. If made of 
wire, it should be washed and cleaned with a brush, at 
least once a day. 

Tea. 

Procure a good quality of tea of whatever kind pre- 
ferred. Scald the teapot (an earthen or granite one is the 
best) and use about a teaspoonful for each person. Use 
boiling water, but do not boil the tea. Steep for a few 
minutes before serving. Black and uncolored teas are 
considered purer and less liable to affect the nerves than 
green teas. 

Iced Tea. 

Make a pitcherful of tea two or three hours before 
wanted. It should be made stronger than if it were to be 
served hot, as the melting ice weakens it. About ten or 
fifteen minutes before serving, add to the tea a quantity 
of chopped ice. Put a lump of ice in each cup or glass, 
and serve. 

Russian Tea. 
Russian tea is made by adding a slice of lemon to each 
cup of tea, whether hot or iced. 

Chocolate. 

Take two quarts of good rich milk, put in a double 
boiler, and let come to a boil. Grate fine a little more 
than a quarter of a cake of bitter chocolate, dissolve with 
a little milk, and add to the boiling milk ; sweeten to taste ; 
simmer for a few minutes after adding the chocolate, and 
serve. 



244 BEVBEAGES 

Broma and Cocoa. 

Broma and Cocoa can be made the same as chocolate. 
Equal parts of milk and water can be used in preparing 
these drinks, if pure milk is considered too rich, but they 
will be found lacking in flavor, as nothing brings out the 
rich flavors of these compounds like pure milk. 

Raspberry Shrub. 

Place red raspberries in a stone jar, cover them with 
good eider vinegar and let stand over night. In the 
morning strain, and to each pint of juice, add one pint of 
sugar ; boil for five minutes, skim, and let cool ; then bot- 
tle and cork tightly. 

Hop Beer. 

Put in a boiler one pound of hops, a handful of thor- 
oughwort, and a small bunch of dandelion root ; add two 
gallons of water and boil for one hour. Strain and cool ; 
then add four pounds of sugar and one cake of yeast. Put 
in jugs and leave out the corks. When it has stopped 
working, cork, and set in a cool place. This is an excel- 
lent spring tonic. Drink a small glassful three or four 
times a day. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

To every three pints of the best vinegar allow 4^ pints 
of freshly gathered raspberries ; to each pint of liquor al- 
low one pound of pounded loaf sugar, one wineglassful of 
brandy. Let the raspberries be freshly gathered; pick 
them ,from the stalks, and put 1% pints of them into a 
stone jar, pour three pints of the best vinegar over them, 
and let them remain for twenty-four hours, then strain 
the liquor over another 1% .pints of fresh raspberries. Let 
them remain another twenty-four hours, and the follow- 
ing day repeat the process for the third time ; then drain 
off the liquor without pressing, and pass it through a jelly 



BEVEIIA(^ES 245 

bag (previously wetted with plain vinegar), into a stone 
jar. Add to every pint of the liquor one pound of pound- 
ed loaf sugar; stir them together, and when the sugar is 
dissolved, cover the jar; set it upon the fire in a saucepan 
of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour, removing the 
scum as fast as it rises; add to each pint a glass of 
brandy, bottle it, and seal the corks. This is an excellent 
drink in case of fevers and colds; it should be diluted 
with cold water, according to the taste or requirements of 
the patient. To be boiled one hour. 

Egg Wine. 

One egg, one tablespoonful and l^ glass of cold watery 
one glass of sherry, sugar, and grated nutmeg to taste. 
Beat the egg, mixing with it a tablespoonful of cold wa- 
ter ; make the wine and water hot, but not boiling ; pour 
on it the egg, stirring all the time. Add sufficient lump 
sugar to sweeten the mixture, and a little grated nutmeg ; 
put all into a very clean saucepan, set it on a gentle fire, 
and stir the contents one way until they thicken, but do 
not allow them to boil. Serve in a glass with sippets of 
toasted bread or plain crisp biscuits. "When the egg is 
not warmed, the mixture will be found easier of diges- 
tion, but it is not so pleasant a drink. 

Almond Milk. 

Needed: Two ounces of sweet almonds, y^ ounce of 
bitter almonds, two ounces of loaf sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of orange flower water, one pint of spring water. 
Blanch the almonds and pound them with the sugar and 
orange flower water, in a mortar, adding a few drops of 
water occasionally while pounding, to prevent too much 
oiliness. When the mixture looks creamy and smooth, 
pour into a clean basin, add the cold spring water, and 
stir it with a silver or thin wooden spoon. Leave it for 
two hours, then strain and keep it either on ice or in a 



246 BEVERAGES 

very cool place, as it is likely otherwise to turn sour. 
Almond milk is served with an equal quantity of water. 

Ching-Ching. 
A good orange, a few drops each of essence cloves, and 
peppermint, three or four lumps of sugar, a tumberful 
of ice. 

Orangeade. 
Veel of three, juice of fifteen oranges, % pound loaf 
sugar, two quarts of water. Peel the three oranges thin- 
ly and boil the peel with the sugar in a pint of water. 
Precs all the juice from the oranges through a fine hair 
sieve into a jug. Add the strained syrup and the rest of 
the cold water, mix, and stand it on ice for an hour. ' Serve 
it from cut glass jugs or decanters, and large claret 
glaSfSes. 

Lemon Ss^rup. 

Two pounds of loaf sugar, two pints of water, one ounce 
of citric acid, % drachm of essence of lemon. Boil the 
sugar and water together' for a quarter of an hour, and 
put it into a basin, where let it remain till cold. Beat 
the citric acid to a powder, mix the essence of lemon with 
it, then add. these" two ingredients to the syrup; mix well, 
and bottle for use. Two tablespoonfuls of the syrup are 
sufficient for a tumbler of cold water, and will be found 
a very refreshing summer drink. 

Pineapple Water. 

One large, ripe pineapple, one pint of boiling syrup, 
juice of one lemon. Peel the pine, slice and mash it well 
in a basin, then pour on the syrup and lemon juice ; stir 
well and cover. Let it stand two hours, then filter through 
a fine silk sieve and add a quart of spring water. 



BEVERAGES 247 

Strawberry Water. 

One pound of fine strawberries, 1/2 pound of loaf sugar, 
.juice of one lemon.. Crush the sugar finely, and sift ovei 
the strawberries, which should be red and ripe. - Add % 
pint of cold water, filter through a sieve, add a quart of 
spring water, and 'the strained juice of one lemon. 

Currant Water. 
One pound of fine red currants, % pound of raspberries, 
one pound of crushed loaf sugar. Pick the fruit, add V^ 
pint of water, and crush with a wooden spoon, then put 
the pulp into a preserving pan with half the sugar. Stir 
till it is beginning to simmer, then filter through a hair 
sieve. Make the rest of the sugar into a syrup with three 
gills of water, pour it to the fruit syrup, add 1% pints of 
water. Let it cool, then decant like wine for use. 

To Make Essence of Coffee. 
To every % pound of ground coffee allow one small 
teaspoonful of powdered chicory, three small teacupfuls, 
or one pint of water. Let the coffee be freshly ground, 
and, if possible, freshly roasted ; put it into a percolator, 
or filter, with the chicory, and pour slowly over it the above 
proportion of boiling water. When it has all filtered 
through, warm the coffee sufficiently to bring it to the 
simmering point, but do not allow it to boil ; then filter it 
a second time, put it into a clean dry bottle, cork it well, 
and it vnll remain good for several days. Two tablespoon- 
fuls of this essence are quite sufficient for a breakf astcup- 
ful of hot milk. This essence will be found particularly 
useful to those persons who have to rise extremely early ; 
and having only the milk to make boiling, it is very easily 
and quickly prepared. When the essence is bottled, pour 
another three teacupfuls of boiling water slowly on the 
grounds, which, when filtered through, will be a very 
weak coffee. The next time there is essence to be pre- 



248 BEVERAGES 

pared, make this weak coffee boiling, and pour it on the 
ground coffee instead of plain water; by this means a 
better coffee will be obtained. Never throw away the 
grounds without having made use of them in this man- 
ner; and always cork the bottle well that contains this 
preparation, until the day that it is wanted for making 
the fresh essence. Prepared coffee essence can now be 
bought at a reasonable price, and of good quality. It 
needs to be mixed with boiling water or milk, to be filtered 
once, then brought to the boiling point, and allow two 
tablespoonfuls for a breakfastcupful of hot milk. 

Claret Cup or Fruit Cup. 

Take twelve lemons, peel, squeeze juice from lemon and 
put in dish with % pound powdered sugar and the lemon 
peel. One quart strained berries, l^ pound sugar in dishy 
one pineapple, % pound sugar in dish, allow to stand 
twelve hours, then squeeze all together and strain. Three- 
quarts water or two water and one claret, two pounds 
sugar, strain, cool. 

Koumiss (Sometimes Called Milk Bee.) 

Into one quart of new milk put one gill of fresh butter- 
milk and three or four lumps of white sugar. Mix well 
and see that the sugar dissolves. Put in warm place to , 
stand ten hours, when it will be thick. Pour from one 
vessel to another until it becomes smooth and uniform in 
consistency. Bottle and keep in warm place twenty-four 
hours ; it may take thirty-six in winter. The bottles must 
be tightly corked, and the corks tied down. Shake well 
five minutes before opening. It makes a very agreeable 
drink, which is especially recommended for persons who 
do not assimilate their food, and young children may 
drink it as freely as milk. Instead of buttermilk, some 
use a teaspoonful of yeast. The richer the milk (which 
Sjioiald be unskimmed), the better the koumisg, 



BEVERAGES 249 

Mulled Buttermilk. 

The well beaten yolk of an egg added to boiling butter- 
milk and allowed to boil up ; or add to the boiling butter- 
milk a little thickening of flour and cold buttermilk. 

Baked Milk. 

Put the milk in a jar, covering the opening with white 
paper, and bake in a moderate oven until thick as cream. 
May be taken by the most delicate stomach. 

Elderberry Syrup. 
Take elderberries perfectly ripe, wash and strain them, 
put a pint of molasses to a pint of the juice, boil it twenty 
minutes, stirring constantly ; when cold, add to each quart 
a pint of French brandy; bottle and cork it tight. It is 
an excellent remedy for a cough. 

Strawberry Sjrrup. 
Take fine ripe strawberries, crush them in a cloth, and 
press the juice from them ; to each pint of it put a pint 
of simple syrup, boil gently for one hour, then let it be- 
come cold, and bottle; cork and seal. When served re- 
duce it to taste with water, set on ice, and serve in small 
tumblers half filled. 

Blackberry Cordial. 
Secure ripe berries and crush them; to each gallon of 
juice add one quart of boiling water ; let it stand twenty- 
four hours, stirring it a few times; strain and add two 
pounds of sugar to each gallon of liquid ; put in jugs and 
cork tightly. It may be used in two months ; is excellent 
for summer complaint, and can be taken by delicate in- 
valids. 




Beef Tea. 

Procure two pounds of lean beef, chop into small bits 
and put into a glass fruit jar; screw on the cover, and put 
the jar in a kettle of cold water ; bring to a boil and boil 
for two or three hours; pour off the juice and season to 
taste. 

Beef Broth. 

Cut Sxjme slices of lean beef into small pieces, cover with 
cold water, and boil until the meat comes to pieces ; then 
strain through a colander and let the broth stand until 
cold. Take off any particles of fat that are on top, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and add small squares of toasted 
bread. Rice, sage, and tapioca, may be used instead of 
toast, if preferred. Other meat broths are made in the 
same manner. 



Rice for Invalids. 
Take a tablespoonful of rice and a pint of milk; put 
them in an earthen dish and bake in the oven for two 
hours. Keep the dish covered for the first hour, then 
take off the cover and stir occasionally. Sweeten if pre- 
ferred. This is an excellent diet for persons recovering 
from bowel trouble. 

250 



FOOD AND DRINK 251 

CDrnmeal Gruel. 

Let a pint of water come to a boil; then stir in one 
tablespoonful of corn meal, wet with a little water. Let 
it boil a few minutes, and season with salt. Milk can be 
added, if preferred. 

Toast Water. 

Toast a slice of bread very brown, break it into pieces, 
and pour over it a cupful of boiling water. When cool it 
makes a nourishing drink. 

Corn Coffee. 

Roast an ear of dry corn until the tips of the kernels 
are black. Break the ear in pieces, put in a bowl; then 
pour over it a pint of boiling hot water. Drink cold. 

Jelly Water. 
Put in a tumbler a tablespoonful of currant jelly, and 
a tablespoonful of wine ; mix them well together, then fill 
the glass with ice water. If the patient is feverish, leave 
out the wine. 

Flaxseed Lemonade. 
Steep two tablespoonfuls of flaxseed in one quart of 
hot water, for ten minutes. Stir in and add the juice of 
three lemons, a large cupful of sugar, and a vdneglassful 
of wine. Drink either hot or cold. This is an excellent 
drink for persons suffering with colds or lung troubles. 

Appetizers. 

Patients can often be induced to taste the following, 
when nothing else will tempt them : Scrape raw beef very 
fine and season with salt and pepper. It can be made into 
a sandwich, if preferred. Second: Roast over the coals 
a small slice of salt pork until almost burnt. A little 
taste of this often creates* an appetite. 



SS2 S^OOt) AND BRINK 

To Make Gruel for Invalids. 

Take one tablespoonful of rolled oats or wheat, two 
tablespoonfiils, of cold water, one pint of boiling water. 
Mix the prepared grain smoothly with the cold water in 
a basin; pour over them the boiling water, stirring it aU 
the time. Put it into a very clean saucepan; boil the 
gruel for ten minutes, kpeping it well stirred, sweeten to 
taste, and serve. It may be'flavord with a small piece of 
lemon peel, by boiling it in the gruel, or a little grated 
nutmeg may be put in; but in these matters the taste of 
the patient should be consulted. Pour the gruel in a tum- 
bler and serve. When wine is allowed to the invalid, two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry or port make this preparation 
very nice. In cases of eoMs, the same quantity of spirits 
is sometimes added instead of wine. Fine oatmeal may 
be used, but it then requires rather longer boiling. 

The Invalid's Mutton Chop. 

A well broiled chop is a very digestible thing to give an 
invalid. It should be cut fairly thin and thoroughly well, 
cooked. None of the skin should be eaten of this or any 
meat. A fresh tomato is a wholesome and digestible ac- 
companiment. To vary a diet of chops, of which most in- 
valids tire, one may be cut from the loin, the next day 
the bone can be taken out and the chop rolled up and 
skewered, on the third day, one or two tiny cutlets from 
the neck might be served. The greatest care must be taken 
that the meat should not have the slightest taint, which 
is most likely to be.in the under part or in the marrow. 
The under cut of a loin of mutton is a very good and ten- 
der piece of meat to serve to an invalid. 

Whey. 

To a pint of warm new milk add a teaspoonful of pre- 
pared rennet. Let it stand, and then strain it through 
a piece of muslin. This can sometimes be taken when milk 
cannot. It is a useful drink in feverish complaints. 



FOOD AND DRINK 253 

"White wine whey is made by pouring a wineglassful 
of sherry into a breakf astcupful of boiling milk, and then 
straining through muslin. 

Treacle posset is made of boiling milk, with one or two 
tablespoonfuls of treacle, in the same way. Alum whey 
and tamarind whey are also occasionally made. 

Irish Moss or Carrageen. 
This seaweed has a reputation as a remedy for chest 
diseases. It should be first soaked and washed in cold 
water, and then boiled for a quarter of an hour in fresh 
water, allowing % an ounce of moss to l^/^ pints of water. 
Strain, and when cold it will set to a jelly. If required 
as a drink, it should have double the quantity of water; 
or milk can be used. 

Iceland Moss. 
"Wash the moss very thoroughly. Put it in cold water, 
and let it nearly boil. Throw this first water away, as it 
will be bitter. Then put the moss on again with water, 
allowing one ounce of moss to 1% pints of water. Boil it 
for fifteen or twenty minutes, and strain it while hot. It 
should be sweetened, and- flavored with lemon or spice, 
lililk can be used instead of wa'ter. This makes a slightly 
bitter drink ; or if a sufficient quantity of the moss is used 
it cools into a jelly. 

Cream of Tartar Drink. 
Dissolve % an ounce of cream of tartar in i^ pint of 
syrup of sugar and water, add twenty drops of essence of 
lemon, and keep it in a bottle to be diluted with water, 
or soda water, as required. It will keep a long time. 

Baked Beef Tea. 
One pound of fleshy beef, 1% pints of water, % salt- 
spoonful of salt. Cut the beef into small square pieces, 
after trimming off all the fat, and put it into a baking 



254 FOOD AND DRINK 

jar, with the above proportion of water and salt; cover the 
jar well, place it in a warm, but not hot, oven, and bake 
for three or four hours. When the oven is very hot Jn 
the daytime, it is a good plan to put the jar in at night, 
and let it remain 'till next morning, when the tea will be 
done. It should be strained, and put by in a cool place 
until wanted. It may also be flavored with an onion, a 
clove, and a few sweet herbs, etc., if the invalid's stomach 
is sufficiently strong to take these. 

Panada for Invalids. 

This is rather different from what is understood by 
panada in the ordinary routine of cooking. It is. useful 
in invalid cookery because whatever it is made of is 
finely divided. The following recipe is given by Dr. 
F. V. Pavy : Take the white part o'f the breast and wings 
freed from skin, of either roasted or boiled chicken, or 
the under side of cold sirloin of roasted beef; or cold 
roasted leg of mutton, and pound in a mortar with an 
equal quantity of stale bread. Add either the water in 
which the chicken has been boiled, or beef tea, until the 
whole forms a fluid paste, and then boil for ten minutes, 
stirring all the time. 

Panada (Another Mode.) 

Take of pearl barley or rice two ounces, wash and put 
it in a saucepan with i^ a pound of veal or mutton cut in 
small pieces, and % a pint of water. Simmer it all very 
gently for two hours, or set it in the oven all night. Then 
pound it in a mortar and rub it through a flne sieve. Add 
a little cream to make it as thin as desired, with seasoning 
to taste, and serve it hot or cold ; or to the meat and barley 
pounded add a handful of bread crumbs and the yolk of 
one or two eggs. Poach it in dessertspoonfuls and serve 
with any vegetable and a little milk sauce. 



FOOD AND DRINK 255 

Restorative Jelly. 

Three ounces of isinglass, two ounces of gum arabic, 

two ounces of sugar candy, a bottle of sherry. Put them 

in a jar, cover it closely, and let stand all night ; then set 

in a saucepan of water and let simmer until it is dissolved. 

Sago, Cream, and Extract of Beef. 
Two ounces of sago, % pint of water, i/^ pint of cream, 
yolks of four eggs, one quart of beef tea. Wash the sago 
until the water poured from it is clear. Then stew the 
sago in y^ pint of water until it is quite tender and very 
thick; mix with half a pint of good cream and the yolks 
of four eggs, and mingle the whole with one quart of beef 
tea, which should be boiling. Useful in cases of lingering 
convalescence after acute disease. 

The Invalid's Cutlet. 
One nice cutlet from a loin or neck of mutton, two tea- 
cupfuls of water, one very small stick of celery, pepper 
and salt to taste. Have the cutlet cut from a very nice 
loin or neck of mutton ; take off all the fat ; put it into a 
stewpan, with the other ingredients; stew very gently 
indeed for nearly two hours, and skim off every particle 
of fat that may rise to the surface from time to time. The 
celery should be cut into thin slices before it is added to 
the meat, and care must be taken not to put in too much 
of this ingredient, or the dish will not be good. If the 
water is allowed to boil, the cutlet will be hard. It is 
better cooked in a jar set in a saucepan of water, as it 
must then be below boiling point. 

Eel Broth. 

One-half pound of eels, a small bunch of sweet herbs, 
including parsley; % onion, ten peppercorns, three pints 
of water, two cloves, salt and pepper to taste. After hav- 
ing cleaned and skinned the eel, cut it into small pieces, 
and put it into a stewpan with the other ingredients; 



256 FOOD AND DEINK 

simmer gently until the liquid is reduced nearly half, care- 
fully- removing the scum as it rises. Strain it through a 
hair sieve; put it by in a cool place, and when wanted, 
take oS. all the fat from the top, warm up as much as is 
required, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. This is 
very nutritious broth, and easy of digestion. 

Calf's Foot Blanc-mange. 

One calf's foot, one quart of milk, one egg, sugar, nut- 
meg and lemon, or seasoning to taste. Get a calf's foot 
that has been already cooked, such as is sold in first-class 
markets and put it on the fire with milk enough to cover 
it, a strip of lemon peel, a piece of nutmeg, and sugar to 
taste. Let it cook very slowly for three or four hours, 
and then strain it. "While still hot stir in the yolk of an 
egg, and set it in small moulds. This blanc-mange can be 
made savory by using a little salt, peppercorns, parsley, 
nutmeg or cloves, onion and celery instead of sugar. The 
lemon peel may be added in any case. The egg may be 
omitted if not liked; a little cream might also be added. 
Small moulds shall be used. For an invalid it is better to 
set just as much as is wanted for one meal rather than to 
cut a piece out of a large quantity. 

Arrowroot. 
U^e milk or water as preferred. Put a heaping tea- 
spoonful of ground arrowroot into a cup, and mix with 
a little cold milk. Stir into a pan containing a pint of 
either cream or water that has been brought to a boil, 
adding a little salt. Let it simmer for a few minutes, and 
then pour out. May be sweetened or flavored with grated 
nutmeg if desired. Should be made only as it is wanted. 

Herb Teas. 
Made by infusing the dried or green stalks and leaves 
in boiling water, and letting stand until cold. Sweeten to 
taste. 



POOD AND DRINK 257 

Jellied Chicken. 

Cook six chickens in a small quantity of water, until the 
meat will part from the bone easily ; season to taste with 
salt and pepper. Just as soon- as cold enough to handle, 
remove bones and skin ; place meat in a deep pan or mould 
just as it comes from the bone, using gizzard, liver and 
heart, until the mould is nearly full. To the water left 
in the kettle add % of a box of good gelatine (some add 
juice of one lemon) dissolved in a little warm water, and 
boil until it is reduced to a little less than a quart, pour 
over the chicken in the mould, leave to cool, cut with a 
very sharp knife and serve. The slices will not easily 
break up if directions are followed. 

Slippery Elm Bark Tea. 

Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over it, 
cover, and let it infuse until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take 
for summer disorders, or add lemon juice and drink as 
a remedy for a cold. 

Cup Custard 

(A Delicate Dish for an Invalid) 

Beat thoroughly in a coffee-cup one egg and two tea- 
spoonfuls sugar ;. add pinch of salt and a little grated nut- 
meg ; fill up cup with good sweet milk ; turn into another 
cup, well buttered, and set in a pan of water, reaching 
nearly to top of cup. Set in oven and let cook till custard 
is set. To be eaten cold. May be improved by putting 
whipped cream on top before serving. 




There are many oeeasa&ns— such as gala dinners, ban- 
quets, marriage luncheons, silver weddings, etc., — ^when 
the mistress of the house is desirous of displaying some 
extra talent and introducing to her delighted guests some 
dish of unusual size or merit, surrounded by those beau- 
tiful little conceits which have made the reputation of 
French cooks. , 

"We should have failed in one of our clearest duties in 
not giving a place in The American "Woman's Cook Book, 
to a select number of those ornamental and exquisite 
specimens of what is properly called artistic cookery. 
And, although it is going somewhat out of our original 
plan of treating only of simple and home-made dishes, 
we insert in this volume some of the best examples of for- 
eign cookery, such as is daily presented upon the tables 
of Europe's grandees. 

We may add that they are the work of the famous chef 
of the court of Germany, Monsieur Urbain Dubois. 

In these recipes will be found a few, very few technical 
words, but any hotel cook of average experience knows 
their meaning^ and may be easily consulted concerning it. 

Our purpose is to furnish, in this department, some 
first class information for professional cooks, always in 
quest of something new and unique. 

258 



ARTISTIC COOKING 259 

Blue Fish. 

In form the blue fish resembles the salmon, or rather the 
houchen of Bavaria. Its lower jaw protrudes like that of 
the Mcar. The head is very big, its skin bluish, and to 
this tint it owes its name. It is one of the prettiest fish in 
the New World. Its flesh, when cooked, assumes a slightly 
dull blue color, and remains soft. This fish usually weighs 
as much as ten pounds ; from its size it therefore consti- 
tutes a remove, which can be served at a large dinner. If 
cooked whole, the blue fish is usually served broiled; if 
cooked in a court bouillon, it ought to be divided into 
slices. Fillets of the blue fish are often served cut, sautes 
with butter, and garnished either a la Normande or a la 
Joinville. 

Spaghetti with Meat (Genuine Italian Recipe) Sufficient 
for Six or Eight Persons. 

"Wash about two pounds of lean beef, veal, lamb or 
spring chicken. Separate from a bulb of garlic several 
cloves or smaller bulbs, and clean. Make three or four 
incisions in the meat and into each place one clove of 
garlic and a small sprig of parsley. Use garlic or pieces 
of onion. Salt and fry in lard (% cup or more). 

When done, add one quart of canned or fresh toma- 
toes and one small tin (% pint) of imported tomato 
sauce. Cook from twenty to thirty minutes, stirring oc- 
casionally to keep from burning. Add salt and pepper 
to -taste. Have ready a large kettle of boiling water. 
When the tomatoes are nearly cooked, put into the boil- 
ing water three pounds of imported Italian spaghetti and 
boil fifteen to twenty minutes. Taste occasionally, and 
the moment the raw flavor has left it, lift out and place 
in large deep platter. Grate over this a piece of Ro- 
man cheese, size of a hen's egg. 



260 ARTISTIC COOKING 

Put the meat on a platter and slice. Pour the tomato 
sauce over the spaghetti and mix well together. Let 
stand about five minutes and serve in soup plates. About 
one hour is required to prepare. 

Note: Some may not know how to properly convey 
spaghetti to the mouth. With the right hand stick the 
tines of a fork into several strands of the food, and hold- 
ing the ends of the tines against the inside of the bowl 
of a tablespoon held in the left hand, turn the fork over 
and over, thus rolling the spaghetti about the fork tines. 

Sailors' Spaghetti, or Spaghetti in Olive Oil. 

Cook the tomatoes and tomato sauce in 2/3 cup of best 
imported olive oil with garlic or onion, parsley, salt and 
pepper as in above recipe. Also prepare the spaghetti, 
and serve it in the same manner. 

Italian Home Made Macaroni or Spaghetti, Sufficient 
for Eight Persons. 

Sift two quarts of flour upon molding board. Make 
a large hollow in the center of this and break into it 
one dozen fresh eggs. Salt each as if for frying' and 
with an egg-beater carefully whip up the eggs, gradually 
taking in some of the flour. 

"When the eggs are well beaten, mix in enough of the 
flour to make a thin light dough. The dough, when 
ready to roll, should be like rubber. 

* Knead for one hour, dusting lightly with flour as the' 
dough sticks to the board. 

Cut off a piece about the size of an egg, and with roll- 
ing pin roll out nearly as thin as paper. Dust this sheet 
of dough lightly with flour and roll up in a close roll. 
With sharp knife, begin at one end and slice off in thin 
slices. Pick slices up by one end, unrolling into strings, 
and lay across a table on clean brown paper, in the sun 
and air if possible, to dry. 



ARTISTIC COOKING 261 

By the time the last bit of dough has been rolled out 
and cut into strings, the macaroni is about dry enough 
for use. 

Have the sauce prepared in oil or with meat as for 
spaghetti. Put the macaroni into boiling water. This 
cools the water and by the time it comes to a hard boil 
again, the macaroni is ready to be taken up. Serve same 
as spaghetti. 

The Shad 

is very good, broiled "a la maitre-d 'hotel;" but is also 
excellent, braised in wine, with little liquid, dished up 
with a "matelote" or a "Genoise" sauce; if the shad is 
to be broiled, it ought previously to be crimped. With 
broiled shad, butter "a la maitre-d 'hotel," and a garnish 
of sorrel, are usually served ; the latter ought to be served 
separately. If braised, it may be surrounded with any 
garnish applicable to removes of fish. 

Black Fish. 

The physiognomy of the black fish is indeed remark- 
able. Its jaws are very strong, furnished inside with 
large teeth, and the surfaces of the palate are provided 
with very hard asperities; which confirms the opinion 
that this fish feeds more particularly on Crustacea. The 
skin of the black fish is black, and very much like that of 
the tench. Its cooked flesh is white and firm, and much 
esteemed by epicures. It possesses a gelatinous princi- 
ple, which renders it suitable to concentrated cooking, 
that is, braising. 

This fish attains a weight of from five to six potmds; 
if served whole, it may be surrounded with a fine garnish, 
and accompanied with a brown sauce, matelote, Borde- 
laise, or Genoise. 



262 ARTISTIC COOKlNa 

Candied Watermelon Rind. 

A Delicious Sweetmeat Side-Dish. 
. Carefully remove all traces of the red meat of the fruit 
from the rind (red meat not to be used) and thinly pare 
off the green or outside ; then cut the white rind into pieces 
about two by three inches.- Take all the pieces and place 
in colander and scald in boiling water on the range for 
six or seven minutes according to thickness. Have either 
a large tinned copper saucepan or one of enameled ware 
in which there is a heavy clarified sugar syrup flavored 
with a few splints of cinnamon bark and % ounce of rose- 
Water. Carefully drain the scalded rind and place while 
hot in the boiling sugar syrup. Slowly simmer for forty- 
five minutes after which take out the candied rind, drain, 
and dry in warm oven about one hundred and twenty 
degrees Fahrenheit. "When cool bottle in Mason fruit 
jars tightly sealed and keep in a cool place. 

The Cod 

is generally cooked in salted water, and plunged in while 
boiling; but if the fish is entire, it is only necessary to 
plunge it into lukewarm water well salted. An entire 
cod requires very long boiling, as it must be .cooked with- 
out ebullition ; that is to say, at the first boiling of the 
liquid, the kettle must be placed on the side of the 
fire, so that the liquid may simmer only, without the ebul- 
lition making itself evident. With boiled cod nothing but 
a good sauce and boiled potatoes, ought to be served; 
other garnishes do not harmonize well with this sort of 
fish. Oyster sauce is most in use; but in Holland it is 
served simply with good, melted butter. This dish, so 
delicate, if the fish is quite fresh and properly cooked, is 
far from possessing the same merit, if stale and negli- 
gently cooked ; these two obstacles are easily removed, if 
the cook is intelligent, and is aware of the responsibility 
attached to his or her office. 



AETISTIC COOKING 263 

The Trout 
should be stuffed, and trussed, then fixed on the drainer 
of a fish-kettle, taking care to place it oil its belly; it 
should then be covered with a good "court-bouillon," 
and cooked in it; the liquor must be poured out cold on 
the fish ; it is afterward brought to ebullition, but imme- 
diately removed from the fire. A salmon-trout of about 
ten pounds must remain an hour and a quarter in its 
liquor kept at the same degree of heat, but without any 
visible ebullition. 

The trout is dished immediately, resting on its belly; 
but for more safety, it may be kept in equilibrium by 
means of fried bread crusts put on the dish, so as to keep 
the fish upright; this bread should be masked with raw 
force-meat, and poached in the oven. 

Garnish with which to surround the fish is composed on 
one side of mushroom-heads, whole truffles, small 
quenelles, shaped with a teaspoon, as well as ornamented 
quenelles; on the other side it is composed of carp-milts, 
crayfish tails, or a wh(/le crayfish with the tails trimmed, 
and lastly with quenelles. All these garnishes are slightly 
masked with "Genoise" or "matelote" sauce; the re- 
mainder is served up in a sauce-boat. 
Irish Stew. 

Take four pounds of breast of fat mutton, cut in small 
pieces ; two large white onions ; ten large potatoes, peeled 
and sliced ; put all in saucepan together with herbs, pepper 
and salt to suit ; a little salt pork adds to flavor ; % pound 
of flour, 1/4 pound butter ; rub well together, and let boil' 
for one hour or until well cooked. 

Boiled Maccaroni. * 

Break two pounds of maccaroni in small pieces; put 
into boiling water to steep half an hour ; drain off ; put in 
saucepan with two quarts fresh cream and a little grated 
cheese, season with red pepper; place in oven a,nd bake 
till browfl. 




Lobster Cutlets a la Victoria. 

This entree is dished up on a croustade, made of fried 
bread, composed of two pieces., When ii"-» top of the 
croustade is fried, the upper surface is slightly hollowed 
out, the empty space masked with a coating of force-meat, 
which afterward is poached in the oven, or in the hot 
closet. The cutlets are composed of cooked lobster flesh, 
cut in small dice, and mixed with an equal quantity of 
blanched oysters, and as many truffles as lobsters, cut in 
the same manner. This salpicon is mixed with a Bechamel- 
sauce well reduced, finished with crayfish butter; it is 
afterward spread on a baking-sheet, the coating being 
about % of an inch; let it cool there; then it is divided 
into the shape of cutlets, which are immediately masked 
with a thin coat of raw quenelle force-meat, dipped in 
-beaten eggs, crumbed, and fried in a saute-pan with clari- 
fied butter. When well drained, each gets a small frill, 
and they are dressed in a circle, the cavity of which is 
garnished with crayfish tails. A matelote or Normande- 
sauee is served separately. 

Pelicious Rice Croquettes. 

One pound of rice, one quart of cold water, half pint 

of milk, three teaspoonfuls of salt, the yolks of two eggs, 

fine bread crumbs; wash the rice thoroughly, put in a 

saucepan with the water, milk and salt; let boil until 

264 



ENTREES 265 

the Avater and milk are absorbed; then set aside to cool; 
grate or roll the bread (should be as fine as coarse corn 
meal) ; beat the yolks; have the lard heating; then make 
the rice into small croquettes, with smooth surface, roll 
them in the egg and then in the bread crumbs ; lay in the 
frying basket, and plunge it in the hot lard, having first 
tested the heat with a bit of bread. "When the croquettes 
are a golden brown, lift the basket, let it drain about a 
minute, then serve on a platter or in a vegetable dish. 



Sheeps' Tongues a la Dominicaine. 

This entree suits better for a supper, or rather for a 
ball-buflfet, than for a dinner; however, it can always be 
admitted in a dinner, if preceded or followed by cold en- 
trees or another kind. 

The sheeps' tongues must be salted^ cooked, well trim- 
med, and well glazed; they are dished on a jelly- 
border. The tongues do not rest on the border, the latter 
having its cavity filled with a circle of wood, on the center 
of which is fixed a support, that is masked with butter, 
or paper. The round, and the support, are covered over 
with salad, composed of vegetables, cut into the form of 
small dice, and mixed with some mayonnaise, prepared 
with aspic-jelly. On the top of the support is fixed a 
small cup of fat, the base of which is sunk into a thick 
string of aspic-jelly. A sauce-boatful of egg-mayonnaise 
is sent up with this entree. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Three quarters of a pound of the white meat chopped 
fine ; half a pound of mashed potato, two ounces of but- 
ter, two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, pepper, salt 
and nutmeg to taste. One egg. This is a good recipe 
for chicken, veal or beef. 



266 ENTREES 

Ham "Historie." 

The sucking-pig is modeled in butter ; it is only on the 
back that the ham is placed. To shape the latter neatly, 
it should first be entirely boned, wrapped round with a 
napkin, and so cooked; when done, it is taken out of the 
napkin to be wrapped up again, and left to cool in the 
required form; when trimmed and neatly carved, the 
small animal, which must bear it, should be carved. The 
piece is surrounded with pretty plaited paper-cases, gar- 
nished with glazed truffles; the base of the "pain-vert" 
is surrounded with bold croutons of aspic-jelly, an indis- 
pensable garnish to cold pieces. ' 

Salmis of Woodcocks. 

This entree is dished up, on a border of game force-- 
meat, on the center of which is fixed a pyramidal crous- 
tade of fried bread. It is against this that the entree is 
placed; for without this support it would be impossible 
to give it the required height and regularity. The legs 
of the woodcock form the base of the pyramid, the fiUets 
are placed on the center; the breast-pieces are set up- 
right, with a few truffles at their base; and on the top of 
the croustade is inserted a skewer, garnished with a truf- 
fle. The woodcocks, and the border, are slightly masked 
with a salmis sauce, reduced with an extract of game, and 
with the raw trimmings of truffles; the remainder of the 
sauce is served in a /auce-boat. This entree is edged 
with nouille-paste. Salmis sauce is prepared from some 
Espagnole, well drained, thickened on a brisk fire, and 
stirred continually. A few tablespoonfuls of extract of 
game, and a little good, cooked Madeira sauce, are intro- 
duced gradually. 

Mayonnaise of Chickens with Jelly. 
To prepare this entree, two good chickens must be 
trussed, wrapped up in slices of bacon, and cooked 
lightly. When the cWckens have cooled, each of them i§ 



ENTREES 26? 

divided into five parts ; these are carefully trimmed, the 
skin, as well as the superfluous bones removed; particu- 
larly of the pinions, and fat of the thighs. The parts of 
the chickens are put into an earthen basin, marinated for 
an hour, then masked with a layer of mayonnaise sauce 
with jelly, and arranged on a baking sheet. As soon as 
the sauce has set, the pieces are trimmed again, and cov- 
ered with a layer of half-set aspic-jelly. They are re- 
moved with the aid of a fork, but must be touched as lit- 
tle as possible, and dished in a pyramid shape, in the hol- 
low of an aspic- jelly border, and turned out on a cold 
dish. Care must be taken that this border be previously 
filled with a support of bread, masked with butter, lest 
the filling up should injure the aspic-jelly. A sauce-boat- 
ful of mayonnaise of eggs is served with this entree. 
Chicken Tamales. 
Mexican Style. 
Take a young dry-picked chicken or capon ; parboil for 
twenty minutes. Cut up in pieces as for fricassee, only have 
the pieces not over two laches square. Dredge the pieces 
while hot with mixed yellow and white corn flour to which 
has been added salt and ground dried red ehilies. Pre- 
pare a paste of eornmeal as above to which has been 
added, one clove of garlic, two crushed onions, one ounce 
lard, three or four mascerated fresh red peppers. The 
paste must be at least I/2 inch thick. Have ready a num- 
ber of clean corn husks that have been softened in water 
together with some slivers of com husks for tying. Care- 
fully smother each piece of chicken in the paste and wrap 
in a piece of corn husk that has been so tied up as to 
prevent the entrance of the water while boiling. Place 
the prepared tamales in the boiling liquor in which the 
chicken was first prepared and let simmer slowly for 
thirty minutes. Serve hot. To keep them warm place 
in a colander over hot water or in a regular steamer over 
a slow fire. 



268 ENTREES 

Chili Con Carne. 

(Mexican Style.) 
Take two pounds lean mutton, i/4 pound mutton fat, 
place fat chopped finely in saucepan till it begins to sizzle ; 
then fry the mutton, seasoned with salt only, until one- 
third cooked. Cayenne pepper, ^4 ounce; six sliced onions, 
two pints parboiled black or red beans, % rind of lemon, 
four teacupfuls soup stock with equal quantity of water. 
Season with salt and whole black peppers. Boil till thick 
and serve hot. , 

"Sam-Bal." 

(East Indian Chili [Red-pepper] Paste.) 
Take two ounces dried or fotir ounces fresh long red 
peppers, four shallots, eight or ten cardamon seeds with- 
out the husk, juice of two limes, one ounce grated cocoa- 
nut. Mascerate all in a mortar to form a paste ; used in 
nlinute quantities to suit taste, with curries and cold 
jneats. 

Fatties a la Financiere. 

To render these hot patties acceptable to an epicure, 
they ought to be prepared with a good short paste, melt-? 
ing in the inouth, and well baked. The outside, of the 
patties ought to be of a nice brown, and the inside be 
filled with a well chosen garnish, mixed with a good 
sauce. These patties are dished in a pyramid on a nap- 
kin ; but in order that this pyramid may be firm, a founda- 
tion of bread should be gummed to the dish. The space 
where the circle of patties rests immediately on the nap- 
kin ought to be filled up with a boquet of fried parsley. 
Patties, that is to say, cases of paste, may be cooked filled 
with flour, or with common force-meat. A moment be- 
fore serving, they are emptied and filled anew with a 
ragout composed of fat liver, cocks '-kernels, cocks'. 



ENTEEES 269 

combs, and truffles. This ragout is thickened with a good 
"sauce Espagnole" reduced with port wine or madeira. 
The patties are dished up on a folded napkin. 

Fillets of Snipes in Cases. 
Small cases of folded paper may be purchased every- 
where, either of round or oval shape. Paper eases must 
be oiled previously to being garnished; if their garnish 
consists of moist materials, the cases can be double. To- 
prepare this dish, the fillets of seven or eight snipes must 
be removed, trimmed, and placed in a "saute "-pan to be 
cooked with clarified butter. A puree is prepared with 
cooked legs of snipes, a few poultry livers, a small part 
of the giblets of game, some boiled rice, a little sauce, and 
a piece of butter. The fillets are cooked just before send- 
ing to table ; the puree is warmed without ebullition, and 
the cases filled up with the latter. On the puree, a fillet 
of a snipe is placed, then masked immediately with a lit- 
tle good brown sauce, reduced with the perfume of game. 
The cases are ranged on a baking sheet, to be kept a few 
minutes at the mouth of the oven, in order to give bril- 
liance to the sauce covering the fillets. The eases are 
afterward dished up on a folded napkin. 

Creamed Sweatbreads, Maryland Style. 

Put sweetbreads on the fire in warm water with a 

pinch of salt and parboil slowly for ten or fifteen inin- 

utes till tender. Take off and remove pieces of skin 

and cut in cubes (dice shape), about % inch and let cool. 

Dressing for Sweetbreads. 
For two sweetbreads put one pint of milk in double 
boiler and let come to a boil, season with little salt and 
pepper. Cream butter size of walnut with tablespoonful 
flour ; add a little cream and stir into the hot milk ; add 
sweetbreads with little parsley, chopped fine, and let 
mixture become thoroughly hot. Serve with or without 
toast in hot covered dislti, 



270 ENTEEES 

Creamed Sweetbreads, No. 2. 
Boil the sweetbreads for ten minutes in salted water, 
remove from fire and separate the skin from sweetbreads 
and break up in small pieces. Prepare a cream sauce 
with one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful flour, 
put in pan together and when melted and blended to- 
gether, add about a pint of milk and bring to a boil. 
Add the sweetbreads, season with pepper and a little salt 
and cook together about five minutes. This is for about 
two good sized sweetbreads. 

Loin of Veal a La Montglas. 

A fine loin of veal. White and fat, is a remove of the 
first order, which can be admitted in all dinners. The 
loin must be cut .rather long, trimmed, then trussed, roast- 
ed or baked in the oven; if baked, care must be taken 
that no liquid be added ; it must be cooked in butter and 
its own fat, without any other liquid, but with moderate ■ 
heat; if roasted on the spit, it must be wrapped up in but- 
tered paper, and allowed to remain for two hours in front 
of the fire, not forgetting to unfasten it in time to give it 
a nice color; it is better to cook the kidney by itself. 

When the loin is done, the lower and the' upper fillet 
must be taken out, the latter cut through and put back 
in its place. Then the loin is dished on a thick layer of 
well-mashed potatoes, or anything else put on the dish, 
to keep the same in place; on one of the extremities of a 
dish, or even upon both, there is fixed a pretty croustade 
of rice, or bread, or a large white turnip, cut in three 
parts. The loin is surrounded with two bunches of 
sweetbread croquettes, between these some small patties 
are dished up, garnished with a montglas of sweetbread 
and truffles. On the other side of the dish are two heaps 
of potatoes a la duchesse, divided by the kidney cut in 
slices. The two cups are garnished with a montglas pre- 
pared with the under fillet and truffles, mixed with a 



ENTREES 271 

cream sauce. There must not be any sauce at the bottom 
of the dish ; but the loin may be accompanied with a half 
Espagnole, or a light tomato sauce. With veal, some 
salt meat, ham, or tongue is generally served. 

Piece of Beef a La Jardiniere. 

This piece is taken from the loin of the ox; that is to 
say, that part which, starting at the extremity of the sir- 
loin, stops at the junction of the lower part of the thigh ; 
the quarter of beef. The loin is the most delicate, savory, 
and agreeable part of the animal, because the fibers and 
flesh are rich and interlarded. Done to the exact point, 
in a good stock, well glazed and garnished, served very 
hot, the loin of beef can be admitted to the most sumpt- 
uous dinners, and will always be welcome. The loin of 
beef is a rich showy piece, but costly; as fine an appear- 
ance as possible must be given to it, in which case it is 
difficult to employ less than about 30 pounds of meat; 
for the most delicate part of the loin, what is called the 
chubb, would not be sufficient'to form a remove; a suffi- 
cient quantity of meat must therefore be left on it, to 
give a good shape. The loin of beef, coming from a fine 
animal, must be covered with a thick coat of fat; after 
having been boned, it is rolled in its natural way length- 
wise, then tied firmly with a string, put into a long stew- 
pan, in which is laid some bacon, cut roots and vegeta- 
bles ; the meat is slightly salted, then moistened and cov- 
ered with light broth ; it must remain in the liquid from 
six to seven hours, on a very moderate fire, with hot 
ashes on the lid. When three parts done, it is drained, 
to trim it underneath ; then put back into the pan, with 
the stock, strained, skimmed, and mixed with a little 
white wine; it must be finished thus in the good, succu- 
lent, richly colored stock. It is dished up on a piece of 
cooked meat ; this must be cooled under a press, trimmed 
to the required size, warmed, and placed at the bottom 



272 ENTREES 

of the dish. This foundation relieves the aspect of the 
piece, and facilitates the dishing up of the garnishes. The 
piece of beef is usually darved in slices, surrounded 
with a garnish of fine, fresh, and tender vegetables, di- 
vided into bunches ; this garnish ™ay also be composed of 
green peas, French beaits, cauliflowers, young carrots, 
glazed turnips ; but too "many kinds should not be used. 

Then the piece is dished up, and glared with a brush ; 
it is ornamented with three different vegetables, and 
skewers ; the liquid in which it has been cooked is sieved, 
skimmed, thinned, and mixed with a few spoonfuls of 
Espagnole and tomato sauce. This sauce is served in a 
sauce boat, hot. 

Dutch Barebit. 

Very Delicious. 
Take ^^ pound of Dutch Cheddar cheese — commonly 
known as the red cannon-ball cheese — grate finely in a 
bowl prepared for the purpose. Juice oi Yz a lemon ; ^4' 
teaspoon of dry English mustard; a saltspoon of black, 
pepper, and from two to three wine glasses of California 
port wine. Mix well together the cheese, mustard and 
pepper and then add the lemon juice. Then add the 
beaiten yolk of one egg together with the port wine until 
a nice paste is formed. Prepare as many pieces of dry 
toast, each Y2 an inch thick, as will take the cheese paste 
to 1/4 of an inch thick nicely laid on. "With a long feather 
paint the top of the prepared cheese with the lightly 
beaten white of the egg and place the rarebits on tin pie 
plates and put in a moderately hot oven. The cheese will 
puff and when nicely browned, serve hot from the oven. 
If further flavor be desired a little "Worcestershire sauce 
can be added while eating. 

Chicken Livers en Brochette (Skewered). 

Take three dozen chicken livers, one pound sliced bacon, 
not too fat. Blanch the livers in boiling water for five min- 



ENTREES 273 

utes, dry thoroughly, and divide each liver in two pieces. 
Prepare a flour dredge with salt and pepper and dredge 
the pieces of liver. Cut the sliced bacon into the sizes of 
the pieces of liver. Take six galvanized nine-inch skewers 
and skewer each piece of bacon and chicken liver alter- 
nately, placing them closely packed side by side. These 
may be either broiled over a brisk red hot fire or can be 
placed in a very hot oven and basted over a roasting pan 
and turned from time to time until done. Ready in from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve with thin dry toast. 

Sweet Breads a La Colbert. 

This is a simple and good meat entree, which can very 
well be served at a dinner, especially if there are several 
hot entrees. To prepare this entree, some large sweet- 
breads, blanched or cooled under press, then cut in two ; 
the two parts are then well trimmed, seasoned, floured, 
dipped in beaten eggs, bread crumbed, and fried in a 
saucepan with clarified butter; they must be of a nice 
color. Just before serving, the scallops are dished in a 
circular order, on a coat of forcemeat, poached on a dish, 
the cavity of the circle is garnished with green peas, plain 
boiled after the English fashion, well drained and well 
shaken together, off the fire, with a pat of fine butter. 
The sweetbreads, and the bottom of the dish, are mashed 
with a Colbert sauce, the remainder of which is served in 
a sauce boat. 

Veal Croquettes. 
Chop cold roast veal very fine, add yolks only, of two 
cold boiled eggs, one tablespoonful of onion juice, the 
same of lemon juice, % teaspoonful celery seed, pepper 
and salt; take two tablespoonfuls of butter and when 
melted, add three tablespoonfuls of flour; cook until 
thick. Add one pint milk, let it come to a boil, add this 
sauce to the prepared meat, roll in cracker crumbs after 



274 ENTREES 

shaping and let stand two or more hours. Then roll 
again in egg and cracker and fry as doughnuts in boil- 
ing lard. SufiScient for one dozen croquettes. 

Pig's Brains Royale. 

Blanch four pig's brains after thoroughly cleaning. 
Prepare a good stock for stewing, to which add one table- 
spoonful chopped parsley, four shallots, rind of half a 
lemon, a few whole grains of black pepper, three or four 
cloves, a little thyme seasoning, flavory, spicy, basil (herb 
leaves), laurel, half dozen cardamom-seeds, one whole long 
red pepper, either dry or fresh, two thin slices smoked 
bacon. Heat the above to near boiling point, then place 
brains in pot and add one gill each of port wine and sherry 
wine and l^ pint of white California wine. Let simmer 
slowly for half an hour and add one teaspoonful butter 
and little salt to taste. Simmer slowly for one hour ; when 
ready, serve hot. 

Lambs' Brains a L'ltalienne. 

This is a meat entree which is often served in France, 
Italy, and England. These entrees must always be dished 
with a certain elegance; if not, they sink into the order 
of common entrees. To prepare this entree, some large 
and beautiful lamb's brains must be chosen, and the skin 
removed without affecting their shape ; when well cleaned 
and blanched, they are cooked in a good stock with wine. 

The entree is dished up on a pate-chaiid case, well 
pinched, and baked to a nice color ; but its interior is filled 
with common force-meat ; the force-meat is poached in the 
stove, or at the entrance of the oven. The brains are! 
dished in a circular order, on the border of the crust, 
placing alternately between them a pretty crouton of 
pickled tongue, cut in the shape of a cock's-comb; the 
cavity of the circle is garnished with a puree of artichoke 
bottoms; over this puree is poured a little melted glaze, 



ENTREES 275 

the croutons are also glazed, the brains are mashed with a 
little good veloute sauce, the remainder is served in a 
sauce boat. 

Stuffed Cucumber Croquettes. 
Take one dozen nice fat cucumbers about five inches 
in length; pare carefully and remove seeds with apple- 
corer, leaving the outer shell of cucumbers with both ends 
open. Prepare a nice croquette mince meat of either veal, 
chicken or other fowl and stuff the hollowed cucumbers 
with it. Have three or four potatoes nicely mashed to 
close the ends of the cucumbers after stuffing. Roll the 
cucumbers in plenty of cracker dust seasoned with salt 
and pepper and put them in a T^f ell-heated oven on a deep 
pie plate and bake for twenty minutes to half an hour 
without turning. Serve hot on same pie plate placed in 
a neatly garnished soup or dinner plate. 

Fillet of Beef a la Godard. 

This remove is one of the most elegant which can be 
served at a sumptuous dinner; it can be placed on the 
table on a beautiful hot-water dish ; but if carved, and the 
slices not too large, it can be presented to the guests. 
Two good small fillets of beef, but not too fat, are neatly 
trimmed, larded, and braised in a good stock ; when done, 
glazed, and of a nice color, they are carved in slices, that 
is to say, this carving stops at some distance from the ex- 
tremities, and penetrates no further than three parts of 
the meat ; the carved pieces are put back in their places. 

These fillets are dished up on a bottom of cooked rice, 
cut in a long shape, and on an inclined plane on both 
sides. Between the two fillets are dished three quenelles 
with pieces of truffles large enough to fill the empty 
space; under these quenelles, at the bottom of the dish, 
is ranged a beautiful ring of slices of sweetbraads, partly 
crumbed with bread and partly with truffles; they are 



276 ENTREES 

done in clarified butter. Between the quenelles, and the 
chain formed by the sweetbreads, are distributed groups 
of mushrooms ; at both ends of the dish some fine, whole 
truffles surround the tops of the fillets. This garnish is 
similarly repeated on the other side of the dish. Between 
the two fillets, and in the center of the dish, a pretty gar- 
nished cup is fixed on the foundation ; this cup may be of 
metal, masked with English or with nudel paste, and 
ornamented; it may also be made of bread, or even cut 
out of large turnips. With a little skill some very ele- 
gant cups can be made out of these turnips. With so rich 
and elegant a remove, a good light Bspagnole sauce must 
be served, that is, not too thick, but juicy, beaten well 
and thiflned with a good stock and some Madeira, as well 
as with the liquor of the truffles. This sauce is sent in 
separately. 

Saddle of Venison, Larded and Boasted. 

A saddle of venison, not too high, and well roasted, al- 
ways makes a distinguished dish, even in countries 
abounding with this game. Nowhere is venison finer or 
of a more delicate flavor than in England ; nowhere either 
is it more esteemed and sought after. However, in Amer- 
ica the haunch of venison is more generally eaten, that 
is to say, the leg of the animal to which a part of the sad- 
dle adheres; but in Germany, in Russia, and even in 
Prance, the saddle of red deer or of fallow deer is very 
often served, and it is more often larded; for, the fillets 
of venison are not always covered with fat. In order to 
eat venison in perfection, it must be mortified to a certain 
degree, for without this mortification the flesh will be 
found less delicate. 

If the buck be fat, the saddle should be cooked without 
being larded, and without removing the fat from the 
fillets, as this fat is generally much esteemed; but if the 
fillets are not covered with a thick coat of fat, the skin is 



ENTREES 277 

removed, and the flesh larded with bacon. In such condi- 
tions the saddle may either be roasted on the spit, or 
baked in the oven. It must be basted with butter while 
cooking. A saddle of venison may be served with a 
piquant sauce, with poivrade or venison sauce, with 
gravy, or currant jelly; but it is oft'en served with gravy 
in the dish, and some venison sauce can be served sepa- 
rately. "When a saddle of venison is served carved, the 
fillets should first be removed, then cut slanting, put back 
into their places, and glazed with a paste-brush. 

A Fine Sirloin of Beef, 
the produce of a young animal carefully fattened and 
just sufficiently developed, is a most captivating picture 
for a connoisseur; but the joint must have hung suffi- 
ciently long to have acquired the wished-for tenderness; 
and it is of the highest importance that it should be 
roasted on the spit, and attended to with the utmost care. 
Beef, even when taken from a young animal, is always 
tough, dry, and without aroma, if it has not hung the 
proper time. The most perfect beef may become dry 
and tasteless, by not observing the proper medium be- 
tween its being too much over, or underdone. 

Sirloins of beef intended for great dinners, are always 
served with the large fillet underneath. 

Ham a la Printaniere. 
A fine ham, properly cured, boiled with care, prettily 
ornamented, and trimmed with a nice sauce, is certainly 
a most excellent remove. If a ham is not sufficiently dis- 
salted, it is placed in a kettle, and covered with cold wa- 
ter; the kettle is set over the fire, where it remains till 
the water boils. When this takes place, the ham is 
drained, then placed back into the kettle, moistened with 
wine and water, set on the fire, and garnished with a few 
big vegetables. At the first boiling of the liquid the ket- 



2?8 ENTREES 

tie is removed to the side of the fire thus letting the liqiiid 
only simmer gently for three hours, and even longer, if 
the ham is large ; the kettle must be taken away from 
the fire; half an hour afterward the ham is drained and 
trimmed. 

The ham is sometimes placed onr a hot-water dish to 
serve ; it is cut flat underneath, so that it lies well on the 
dish ; it is then surrounded with small timhales of spin- 
ach and potatoes, poached in a "bainmarie;" the bottom 
of the dish is masked with a little "Espagnole" sauce, 
worked with. Madeira wine, and kept light. The ham is 
glazed with a paste-brush'; the remainder of the sauce is 
sent up in a sauce boat, and served at the same time with 
a dish of gneen peas. 

Boasted Capons, with Water Cresses. 

A nice, fat, tender capon constitutes a roast so highly 
disEnguished as to be neither common nor easy to be 
found everywhere. Capons should abov« all be young ; 
it would be of little use to have them well fattened, if 
they were tough. 

Eoasted capons are never larded ; they are povered with 
bacon; or wrappd in buttered paper, until three parts 
roasted. The spit- is the only method a,pplicable to the 
cooking of roasted capons; if th« flesh be basted with 
good butter, it becomes unctuous and succulent. 

The carving of capons is very simple. The legs are 
first slipped off, and divided into two parts. Two small 
fillets, with the pinion of the wing adhering, are taken off 
the breast ; a nice slice is then cut on each side of the 
hreast, and this is divided either lengthwise or trans- 
versely. Some nice gravy and bread sauce must be 
served with roasted capons. If the gravy is served sep- 
arately, the capons when dished up may be garnished 
with water cresses. The capons may be filled with truf- 
fles. 



ENTREES 279 

Larded and Roasted Turkey, with Truffles. 

A fat and very tender turkey is an excellent roast; 
larded, or covered with bacon, it is always welcomed ; the 
best way to roast a turkey is on the spit. It should be 
previously wrapped in buttered paper, and basted with 
butter while cooking. One hour and a half to two hours 
is required to roast a turkey on the spit; the fire should 
be moderate and continual. 

When it is three parts done the paper is taken off, so as 
to facilitate the coloring of the surface. There are two 
ways of serving roasted turkey, with truffles ; the first 
one consists in filling the turkey with peeled and seasoned 
truffles ; these may be whole or cut up, they are mixed up 
with rasped bacon. The second consists in filling the tur- 
key simply with rasped bacon mixed with the raw peel 
of the truffles, previously chopped up; in this case the 
peeled truffles are cooked at the time in a little good 
wine, then the liquor is reduced with good gravy. At 
the moment the roast is dished, the truffles are piled 
round the turkey, and the gravy sent up in a boat. The 
leg bones of a roasted turkey should be cut up short, and 
a truffle put thereto. The carving of the turkey is very 
simple ; it suffices to slip off entirely the two fillets of the 
breast, to cut them in slices and to put them back in their 
places. At a select dinner, the legs of a roasted turkey 
should never be carved or served at all. 

Boasted Partridges. 

Partridges for roasting should be young, this is the first 
point. They do not require to be kept long before cook- 
ing ; they may be stuffed with raw, peeled, and seasoned 
truffles ; truffled partridges constitute a very distinguished 
roast. They should be trussed with two strings, and may 
be larded or covered with bacon; they should, in prefer- 
ence, be roasted on the spit; twelve minutes sufiSce to 
roast tender partridges, if the fire is kept alive. While 



280 ENTREES 

they are being cooked, they should be frequently basted 
with butter. Partridges, like nearly all game roasts, 
should be kept underdone. 

When the partridges are taken off the spit, and freed 
of the strings, they are either dished up whole, or carved, 
according as they are served on the table, or handed 
round to the guests. The carving of the partridges is 
done in several ways. The most elegant consists in slip- . 
ping off the breast from the back part, to cut it up in 
three parts, and put it in form and in its place again. The 
partridges may also be divided into three parts, by cut- 
ting off at once a filet and a leg, so as to leave the breast 
part adhering to the backbone; this is afterward done 
away with, and the partridge is formed again. With 
roasted partridges, some good gravy, bread sauce, water 
cresses, or simply some lemons in quarters, may be served. 
If the partridges are garnished with water cresses the 
gravy must be served in a boat ; with game roasts, only a 
little gravy is required, but this should be limpid and 
succulent. 

Side Dish of Turkey. 

Take cold turkey meat chopped fine, seasoned with salt, 
pepper and gravy; lay pie crust round the edge of a 
platter, place in the chopped turkey ; cover, and bake till 
brown. 

Side Dish of Roast Beef. 

Chop cold roast beef fine, season with salt and pepper; 
wet with gravy ; then take cold rice moistened with milk 
and one egg and place round the platter quite thick; set 
in oven until brown. 



FRUITS AND lOES. 

Crusts with Cherries. 
These crusts are made with brioche paste, which has 
been prepared the day before ; it is then cut into slices 
of an equal shape and thickness, sprinkled with pounded 
almonds and sugar, and glazed in the oven. The center- 
piece may be either of punch cake, or simply of bread. 
If required, it may also be of tin, masked with ofSce paste 
(raw paste). If of edible paste, it must be coated with 
a layer of reduced apricot marmalade, with the aid of a 
paste brush ; if of bread, it is fried ; if masked with raw 
paste, it is sufficient to give it a nice golden color, and let 
it dry in the air, previous to setting it on the dish. When 
about to be served, the cup is garnished with either fresh 
or preserved cooked cherries ; its base is surrounded with 
the crusts, being very hot and dished up in pyramids. 
The bottom of the dish is then slightly masked with a lit- 
tle good Madeira sauce, smoothed with some apricot 
marmalade. The remainder of this sauce is sent up in a 
sauce boat, after having introduced into it some pre- 
served cooked cherries. 

Plum Pudding, with Punch. 

This is a side-dish of English origin, but known and 
served in all countries; the recipe here given is one pro- 
ducing the best results. The English plum pudding is 
generally too heavy and massive ; the one here described, 
which is often served even at the most sumptuous dinners, 
is lighter and of a fine flavor. 

The composition of plum pudding is: One pound of 
chopped beef kidney suet, a pound and a quarter of 
grated fresh bread crumb, one pound of mixed dried 
raisins, half a pound of orange peel and citronate, a pound 

m 



282 FRUITS AND ICES 

of moist sugar, a tablespoonful of powdered ginger, eight 
whole eggs, % glass of brandy, and % glassful of good 
raw cream. 

The different ingredients are mixed and well worked, 
then put into a buttered and floured dome mould, covered 
with a napkin, likewise buttered and floured ; this napkin 
is tied together on the other side of the mould, which is 
then plunged into boiling water. 

The pudding requires to be cooked for four hours, the 
kettle being closed, and without letting the water cease 
to boil. As soon as the pudding is drained, it is turned 
out of the cloth upon a hot dish, then a little cavity is 
formed on its center, to pour into it a few tablespoonfuls 
of very good brandy, previously mixed with a little sugar, 
then warmed and. ignited. Plum pudding must be served 
and eaten while very hot. 

Basket of Fruit for Center-Piece. 

In the center of a table laid for dinner, it ;s usual to 
place some ornamental piece, such as a surtout or a dor- 
mant,, a candelabrum, or some stand in_silver, bronze, or' 
china. This centerpiece, however, is nothing more than 
an accessory, which may easily be replaced by a simple 
vase of flowers, or a basket of fruit. The more hand- 
some the dinner service, the more elegatit and rich, both 
in material and workmanship, must be the centerpiece. 

A basket of fruit, rich, abundant, and varied in its se- 
lection, is in fact only a centerpiece, when placed in the 
middle of the table. The basket itself may be in rustic 
work, osier, china, or metal. To prevent any chance of 
the fruit falling from its position, a piece of cardboard, 
in the form of a pyramid, surrounded and garnished with 
moss, should be made for the fruit to lean against. 

"When arranging such basket of fruit for a dinner 
table, only the freshest, the rarest, and the most beautiful 
^iijds should be sejectied. The sort and color to be cjiosen^ 



J^RUITS AND ICES 283 

must of course depend on the season; but as great a va- 
riety, and as diversified in tint, as is possible. If the fruit 
be large, as pears, apples, or pineapples,' they must be re- 
moved from the basket, to be cut up and handed 
round in plates. Pineapples are peeled and sliced, large 
pears are quartered without being peeled 

Lady Washington Cranberry Sherbet— for Six People. 

One quart cranberries. Wash thoroughly, cover with 
water and boil five minutes. Put through sieve. Add 
sugar, measure for measure. Let come to a boil. Re- 
move from fire, add juice of two lemons and one pint 
cold water. "When cold freeze in usual manner. To 
make extra fine, add beaten whites of two eggs when 
partly frozen 

Pineapple "a La Creole." 
Although in itself very simple, this dish is nevertheless 
very elegant and attractive ; if the fruit be well imitated, 
the slices of pineapple fine, this dish is sure to meet with 
applause. It is necessary to have a pineapple mould, in 
which good rice a la creme, finished with a few yolks of 
eggs, is moulded. As soon as the rice is cooked and firm 
in the requisite condition, it is turned out on a foundation 
of bread of the same dimension (having about two inches 
of thickness) , and fried in butter. If no mould be handy, 
the rice can be raised with the hands on the fried foiinda- 
tion, which in this case, is set on a dish. The surfaces of 
the rice are smoothed, then modeled by the aid of a little 
knife, so as to imitate the asperities of the pineapple. In 
each of the protruding parts is stuck a little bit of an- 
gelica. The rice is then masked with a paste-brush, with 
a coating of hot, reduced apricot marmalade, to give it. a 
higher degree of brilliancy. The crovtm of the pineapple 
is imitated with cut up angelica; its base is surroimded 
with nice slices of fresh piiieapple in compote, cut reg- 



284 FRUITS AND iCES 

ularly, but not too thin.. Above these slices a crown of 
pointed triangles of angelica is stuck into the rice. The 
bottom of the dish is slightly masked with apricot or 
marasquin sauce, the remainder of which is sent up in a 
sauceboat. 

Apricots, a "la Oonde." 

The apricots being cut in two, they are peeled, and 
cooked with a little butter and sugar, or simply in some 
light syrup; they are kept firm. Then they are placed 
in a sauce pan, thickened with a little apricot marmalade, 
and dished in a dome on a layer of rice, spread so as to 
form a cavity on the bottom of a dish. 

The apricots are sprinkled with some chopped almonds, 
mixed with sugar and a little white of eggs, glazed with 
salamander, and at last surrounded with little rice cro- 
quettes, in the shape of a pear, fried, and rolled in' pow- 
dered sugar, flavored with vanilla. A bit of angelica is 
stuck to the most pointed end of each of the croquettes ; 
halves of apricot almonds are placed on the fruit. Some 
apricot syrup with marasphino is served in a sauce boat. 

Sultan Cake. 
This is composed of two cakes with vanilla, one baked 
in a dome-shaped mould, the other baked in a square tin, 
and then cut in the shape of a cushion, iced over with a 
rose-colored tint, decorated with white icing, with the aid 
of a cornet. It is placed on a dish, surrounded with sweet 
jelly, minced ; the tassels are imitated in spun-sugar. The 
second cake is glazed, emptied, filled with a milk-posset 
preparation with pistachios or strawberries; the center 
of the cushion is surrounded with a turban, imitated in 
fine white spun-sugar, garnished with small red beads. 
The two tufts (pompons) on the top and center, are also 
imitated in spun-sugar. This side-dish well executed, has 
always a beautiful effect. 



FRUITS AND ICES 285 

The King's Meringues. 

These meringues are the traditional and indispensable 
entremets of the family dinners of the Prussian court. 
For this reason they are called the king's meringues. 
They are made with a very fine meringue-paste, accord- 
ing to a process specially observed in the royal kitchens. 

The preparation for meringue is composed in the pro- 
portions of a pound of sugar to eight whites of eggs, and 
a pinch of salt. The king's meringues are small in size; 
each shell has on the central point a hollow, very difficult 
to produce, but which characterizes them in k peculiar 
manner. They are moulded with the spoon. The mode of 
proceeding deserves to be studied with care. The prep- 
aration is taken, in equal portions, with a tablespoon; it 
is then rolled up against the sides of the basin. "When the 
preparation is quite smooth, it is dropped onto a sheet of 
paper, while holding the spoon perpendicularly, and turn- 
ing it from left to right, as soon as the preparation touches 
the paper ; it is by so doing, that it falls in a round form, 
leaving a hollow on the central part. When the shells are 
all laid on the paper, they are sprinkled with icing sugar 
powder, and sifted through a piece of wool. The me- 
ringues are baked in the usual way, that is, on damp 
boards in a very moderate oven; then they are allowed 
to dry completely in a hot closet, and then cooled. 

A quarter of an hour before serving them, the merin- 
gues are garnished with whipped cream, flavored with 
sugar and vanilla. They are then piled up on a sugar or 
gum paste stand, light and low in shape, ornamented on 
the friese with a nice wreath of oak leaves, imitated in 
gum-paste. 

Muscovite Jelly. 
It is composed of sweet jelly prepared with isinglass, 
juice of fresh pineapple mixed with lemon juice, filtered 
and mixed with a little champagne; the jelly is set in an 



286 FRUITS AND ICES 

entremets mould, embedded in common ice ; it must be set, 
layer by layer ; each of which layers is intermingled with 
slices of raw pineapple. The jelly having set, the mould 
isfrappe with salt, with its lid shut; it must be frappe 
for twenty-five or, thirty minutes. At serving time, it is 
washed with cold water, then dipped into water not too 
warm, wiped, and turned out on a bordered .bottom, 
masked with gum paste, or white paper. This Muscovite 
preparation must be slightly glued (that is, with but half 
the usualquantity) ; for if too m \ch glued, the jelly would . 
not be palatable, as the action,of , he salt hardens the glue. 
This side-dish must be served, shortly after being turned 
out of the mould ; because, when coming out of the mould, 
it bears quite a particular physiognomy. 

Charlotte Busse, with Pistachios. 
This charlotte is formed with biscuit ; half of which is 
glazed white, half light green with pistachios. The bis- 
cuit is cut in a slanting direction, rising to the same height 
and- the same length, as the charlotte mould ; against the 
sides of which the pieces of biscuit must be leaned, plac- 
ing them one beside the other, and alternating the shades. 
The bottom of the mould is masked, -first with a flat. of 
paper, then with a round of plain biscuit. This mould is 
embedded in ice, an hour previous to serving ; ten minutes 
afterward, it is filled with some milk-posset preparation ; 
this preparation is composed with a puree of pistachios, 
diluted with plain syrup, perfumed with orange flowers, 
and glued, slightly thickened on ice, by stirring it, fhen 
mixed with good whipped cream — three glassfuls; the 
cream must be mixed with the preparation by degrees 
only. The mixture having become flrm, the charlotte is 
turned out on a bottom of gum paste, the top of which is 
simply bordered with a circle of white beads of icing 
sugar, squeezed through a cornet. The basis of the bot- 
tom may be garnished with jelly croutons, or chopped 



FRUITS AND ICES 287 

jelly. The top of the charlotte is masked with a layer oJ! 
marmalade. The rim is surrounded with little glazed 
biscuit; the center of this circle being garnished with 
whipped cream, or chopped jelly. 

Suedoise of Fruits, with Jelly. 

This dish is formed in a high shaped charlotte mould ; 
this mould is first embedded in ice, then garnished along 
its sides, with little balls of white apples and reddened 
pears, which must be moderately boiled in light syrup. 
First they are left to cool well on ice, then they are 
pricked with a larding needle, and dipped in white, half- 
set jelly ; next they are set against the sides of the mould, 
alternating the shades by two and two, thus forming di- 
agonal stripes. 

As soon as the fruits are raised, they are supported by 
a coating of orange jelly, one-eighth of an inch thick, ap- 
plied on the bottom, and all round; the hollow is then 
filled by a pineapple milk-posset preparation with pista- 
chios or strawberries, mixed up with a salpicon of pre- 
served fruits. The preparation must be kept on ice for 
an hour. At serving time, the mould is quickly dipped in 
warm water, and the contents turned out on a bordered 
bottom of gum paste. The top of the suedoise is then 
decorated with a fine rose-shaped figure of preserved 
fruits or of jelly, the center of which is garnished with a 
fine green gage. The bottom of the dish may be also gar- 
nished with chopped jelly, or with jelly croutons. 

Ribbon Blanc-mange. 
■ For this dish, first of all, there must be prepared some 
almond mjlk, with enough of extract, and sufficient in 
itself to fill a mould with cylinder and channelings; it 
must be well glued and sweetened, passed through a sieve, 
and divided into three parts; one of which, having some 
pounded almonds mixed with a little spinach green in- 



288 FEUITS AND ICES 

fused, is then passed through a tammy; the second part, 
into which is infused the peel of a good orange, is then 
slightly colored with vegetable red, and likewise passed ; 
while the third and last part, with a stock of vanilla in- 
fused, is' kept in its natural shade and passed likewise. 
An oiled channel mould is embedded in ice ; a layer of the 
green preparation, one centimeter and a half thick, is 
poured on the bottom of, it ; as soon as this layer has got 
firm, another layer of the same thickness of white prepa- 
ration is poured on ; when it has set, it is covered with a 
third layer, always of the same thickness, of red, prepara- 
tion, which is left to get firm ; then the same operation is 
begun anew. 

An hour afterward, that is to say at serving time, the 
mould is 'dipped in hot water, wiped, and turned out on a 
bottom of bordered gum paste, bearing a little stem on its 
center. The base of the bottom of gum paste may be sur- 
rounded with croutons of sweet jelly; the top of the stem 
is decorated with a pompon of spun sugar. 

Old Dominion Frozen Fruits. 

Take one quart peaches, raspberries or other kind of 
fruit, as j)ref erred, peeled or stemmed, two cupfuls sugar, 
one pint water, ^^ cupful rich cream, and the whites of 
three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. If peaches are used, cut 
rather fine ; if berries, mash to a smooth pulp ; stir all to- 
gether, and freeze into form. 



The DinnerTable 



!. f V-T» 



"^i n%* "'Wd 



Fic 




1 




1 


*% 




% 




% 


1 



General Rules. 
Whether the table is to be covered with the most costly 
food or the most simple fare, whether it be for prince or 
tradesman, there is yet equal necessity that the cloth 
should be spotless, the cutlery well cleaned and sharp, 
the silver polished brightly, and the glass clear. These 
are luxuries within the reach of all. "We say "luxuries" 
because we all know the comfort of a well-laid table, and 
yet there are many who do not trouble themselves about 
the usual every day laying of the cloth, only making a 
point of this being carefully done when guests are ex- 
pected. "We would venture to suggest that if the mistress 
of a household would see that her table was properly laid 
every day she would find it less trouble than the anxiety 
of having it so only now and then, and much of the an- 
noyance which the occasional dropping in of a friend at 
meal time often causes could be spared. Besides, though 
perhaps this point should not be discussed here, why 
should our ordinary family table differ so widely, as we 
confess it does too often, from the table we like our friends 
to see us preside at ? It is because we have let ' ' only our- 

289 



290 DINNER TABLE 

selves" take a broader, wider meaning than it should 
have. ' ' Only ourselves ' ' stands too often as the apology 
for a dirty cloth, unpolished cutlery and silver, and 
smeared glass, to say nothing of perhaps negligent cookery 
into the bargain. And is it not a notable fact that when 
we do give a dinner party, we strive our utmost to carry 
off the affair with ease and nonchalance, and are vexed 
if the secret be discovered — more than vexed— that to do 
this has been a source of worry and hard work ever since 
we projected the scheme? It is seldom,_too, that we suc- 
ceed in keeping the secret to ourselves, and our friends 
sometimes maliciously enjoy it. 

The Sideboard 

for all meals should be covered with a clean white cloth 
and all that is wanted for each meal — in addition to what 
is placed upon the table— that can be brought into the 
dining room, should be there ready for use, with the ad- 
dition of knives, forks, glasses, etc., in ease such may be 
required, but as the sideboard will have to be laid differ- 
ently for different meals, it will be best to arrange it sep- 
arately for each. A sideboard should be an ornamental 
as well as useful piece of furniture, and may be as care- 
fully and prettily laid out as the table itself. 

Everything Needed in Lsymg a Cloth 

should be first brought into the room in which the table 
is to be laid, and what you are about to partake of should 
be your guide as to what you require. For instance if fish 
is to be served two extra forks should be placed for each 
person. In the same way when soup is to be served, put 
on the necessary spoons at the right side, while the other 
courses must determine what knives and forks will be 
needed. The same rule applies to the glasses put upon 



DINNER TABLE 291 

the table, always to the right hand of each person. If 
you give three wines then put three glasses of the proper 
kinds, if only one, then put one glass, and if none, only 
tke tumblers which may serve for either water or beer. 
It is only in hotels that everything is laid irrespective of 
what may be ordered. Salt is a necessary accompaniment 
to every meal and it is a great convenience to have plenty 
of small salt-cellars, one to each person, or one between 
two. To avoid the trouble of passing, pepper, mustard, 
etc., may also be placed upon the table or handed around 
by the servants, but as the serving of one meal does not 
apply to another one must prepare differently the differ- 
ent tables — ^Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Tea or Supper. 

Table Cloths and Napkins. 

Anybody knowing how to lay a cloth properly and taste- 
fully, prettily and neatly, knows something decidedly 
worth knowing. The first, or almost the first, attention 
bestowed by a young wife upon her household affairs 
should be directed to the laying of the table cloth. The 
laying of the cloth is a very important item in household 
management; it exercises a certain moral influence upon 
the inmates of the house in the degree of care or thought 
that is bestowed upon it. This is a point which, we hope, 
will not be lost sight of by our readers. 

The Serviettes or Table Napkins 

should be neatly and tastefully folded when first put on 
the table, although afterward in ordinary family use 
they may be put into rings. It is a good plan to place them 
upon the table first so that one can apportion the space 
allowed for each person and make the napkins equi-dis- 
tant, and in laying a dinner table the roll or piece of 
bread is put in the folds. 



B92 DINNER TABLE 

TABLE ETIQUETTE. 

These very simple and practical rules are especially 
intended for the training of children, and as such, will be 
kindly received by busy parents. They will also be found 
useful- as reminders for those grown up people who may 
have forgotten some of the necessary requisites of ' ' Good 
Table Manners" — the infallible touchstone of a lady's or 
gentleman's breeding. 

Make a point to be on time at family meals. Exactitude 
is the politeness of kings — and of well bred people. 

Never come to the table in a neglected attire, or in 
your shirt sleeves, or with hair unkempt, or with hands 
and face of doubtful cleanliness. Your home is a temple, 
not a pig-stye. 

If there are ladies in the party, do not sit down be- 
fore they are themselves seated. , 

Sit down square to the table, not sideways, or leaning 
back in your chair as if to take a nap instead of a meal. 

Never allow your elbows to rest on the table. Let your 
hands-^^when not busy— rest on the edge of the table. 

Do not tuck your napkin under your chin, or between 
the buttons of your waistcoat; put it across your lap. 

If you sport a beard or mustache, use your napkin fre- 
quently to wipe away any unnoticed drop or crumb. 

Never use your napkin to mop your face with. 

Never cut your bread with a knife; bread is made to 
be broken, not cut, when once off the loaf. 

Make no noise with your mouth when eating or drink- 
ing, especially when eating soup. 

Never attempt to talk with a mouth half full. 

Bat without haste ; do not take huge mouthfuls. 

Keep your elbows as close to your side as possible when 
cutting your meat or carrying spoon or fork, to your 
mouth. 



DINNER TABLE 293 

Do not throw your head back when drinking, nor 
drink a glassful at a time without stopping for breath. 

Take care that all the ladies in the party, except pos- 
sibly your own daughters — are served before you. 

If you have ladies by your side, attend, unobtrusively, 
to their wants, offering to fill their glasses, pass the bread, 
the salt, etc. 

Never, under any circumstances, use your knife for any 
other purpose except cutting your meat. Knives are not 
to be put in contact with mouths. 

Try your best to eat all vegetables — peas included — 
with the help of your fork. A famous society man who 
stood as a model of good manners, claimed that he could 
bring everything to his mouth by means of a fork — ex- 
cept tea, coffee and soup. 

Bring your spoon to your mouth sideways, not point 
foremost, and absorb its contents noiselessly. 

Never pour the contents of your cup in your saucer, 
under pretense of cooling the beverage. Be patient awhile 
and drink from the cup direct, or with the help of a spoon. 

When eating meat, hold it down on the plate with your 
fork, while cutting it ; knife in the right hand, fork in the 
left hand. When one piece is cut off let the knife go 
noiselessly by the side of the plate, and taking the fork in 
your right — almost horizontally — bring the morsel to your 
mouth. 

Do not cut all your meat at one and the same time, but 
proceed as above ; a little practice will make the task easy 
and graceful. 

The fork is to be held with the handle in the palm of 
the hand and be gently brought from plate to mouth; the 
fingers stretched along the handle in a natural position. 
Always remember it is a fork, not a pitchfork. 

Do not place a provision of anything (salt or olives or 
almonds) next to you on the tablecloth ; nor place there 
fruit or potato peelings. 



294 DINNER TABLE 

If you do not accept of one course, wait until the others 
are through with it before accepting of the next. 

Do not butter a whole slice of bread ; butter fragment 
after fragment. 

Never encourage a dog or cat to play with you at the 
table. 

Do not get up from the table before the others do ; your 
home is not a restaurant; the home you are invitetd to, 
still less. 

Never take any food in your hands, except fruit. Mut- 
ton chops and fowls ' legs and wings are not to be held in 
the fingers while being eateh. Civilized beings do not 
devour, they eat. 

Do not clean your plate, with your bread or otherwise ; 
it would look as if you were famished or miserly, which 
let us hope you are not. 

When peeling fruit or potatoes hold them at the end. of 
your fork — ^in the left hand^ — and peel them with your 
knife — in the right. 

It is awful to have to say this, but do not keep, or bring 
a cuspidor in the dining room. 

When eating grapes or cherries, hold your right hand 
close to your mouth, and discreetly dispose — ^upqn your 
plate — of the stones and skins. 

Never carry fruit, confectionery or anything else from 
the table, except for a sick person and by special permis- 
sion of the hostess. 

Never wear gloves at the table. 

Be careful not to drop or break or spill anything. If 
some such accident happens to you, take it calmly, excus- 
ing yourself to the hostess. 

When sneezing or coughing, turn your face aside, or 
better, hide it behind, your handkerchief. 

Avoid stretching your hand over other people's plates 
to reach anything. Rather ask for it, or do without. 



DINNER TABLE 295 

Don't ask for a second service of soup or fish. 
Never leave the spoon in your cup when bringing it to 
your lips. 

"When sending your plate for a second service of meat, 
or vegetables, or sweets, take away your fork and knife, 
and lay them on your right side by side, and perpendicu- 
lar to the table's edge. 

If you are the host (or hostess) do not press any dish 
upon your guests. Out of misjudged courtesy they might 
eat more of it than they care to. 

If finger bowls are brought upon the table at the close 
of a meal', only wet the tip of your fingers, passing them 
slightly over your lips. Remember this little glass vessel 
is not intended as .a wash basin. 

In a dinner by invitation, the host leads the way from 
the drawing room to the dining room, having on his arm 
the lady he wishes particularly to honor. Each gentleman 
then follows escorting the lady the hostess has requested 
him to "take in." The hostess comes last with the gentle- 
man who is entitled to most consideration on this spe'cial 
occasion. 

If the gentlemen do not stay in the dining room after 
the ladies' withdrawal — according to the English custom 
— the party returns to the drawing room in couples, as be- 
fore, the hostess this time leading the way, and the host 
closing the march. 

If the gentlemen are to stay in the dining room, they all 
rise when the hostess gives the signal for the ladies to 
withdraw, and the gentleman nearest to the exit opens 
the door with a bow, closing it after all the ladies have 
filed out. 

After the lapse of about half an hour the butler, or 
waitress, announces that coffee is served in the drawing 
room, and the gentlemen ^oin the ladies, 



^^^^H 




HINTS ON MARKETING 

Aim to allow % pound of meat for each person. 

The fat should be firm, but if hard and skinny it in- 
dicates that the animal was old and tough ; if thia, from 
a scrawny animal. 

The best veal is usually of a pale color, although the 
veal of a deep color is more juicy. When examining veal 
see that the kidney is ene^losed in fat, which should be 
firm and white. 

The odor, if any, ought to be natural and not disagree- 
able. 

Beef or mutton should be of a deep rose color, and the 
fat a rich cream. The choicest cuts for roasting are the 
sixth, seventh and eighth ribs, the sirloin and porter- 
house cuts. Sirloin and short cut porterhouse steaks are 
b^k, although many prefer the pinbone steak. Round 
sifek is almost invariably tough. Little veins of fat 
sKouid run through the meat which gives it a marbleized 
appearance. Beef intended for steak or roast, when pos- 
sible should be kept for a week or ten days well pro- 
tected from the air. 

296 



MAEKBTING 297 

Good pork has a smooth, thin rind which is firm to the 
touch and of a light color. 

Bacon should be white and firm, not yellowish or too 
fat. A pink or rosy streak is considered a good sign. A 
steel skewer (pin for holding meat in shape) driven into 
bacon or ham should come out clean. If particles of 
meat cling to it or if any unpleasant smell is detected, 
it should not be used. 

When selecting poultry see that the feet are soft and 
moist, the eyes clear, the flesh plump and healthy-look- 
ing. A bluish or greenish look aroimd the veins indicates 
decay. 

If there is any suspicion that a fowl has been in cold 
storage, pour hot water into the inside. If any disagree- 
able odor is detected, the fowl is not fit for the table. 

When buying slaughtered poultry see that the edges of 
the wound turn outward; the skin should be white, the 
flesh firm, the bill of a bright natural color and the wings 
should bend easily at the joints. If the skin has a bluish 
tint or a slimy appearance, do not accept it under any 
consideration. One of the greatest dangers to health is 
in the poisonous germs that lurk in cold storage poultry 
or other meat that has been standing too long. 

The signs of youth in chicken are a tender, white skin, 
a flexible end of the breast-bone, a light colored bill, soft 
feet, bright full eyes, a red comb and fine feathers. Old 
chickens hiave long hairs instead of fine feathers. Young 
turkeys have dark legs. All other fowls have a dark 
horny skin on the legs when old. The windpipe of 
young turkeys and geese yields easily to pressure and the 
head of a pin may be pressed into the breast skin of a 
young goose, turkey, chicken, duck or other fowl. 

Young chickens have smoQ|j|^j|egs and soft and pliable 
breast-bones and smooth combs. Spring broilers should 
weigh 1 to 1% pounds and be served either whole or 
split along the back bpue ioto halves. If there is any 



298 MAEKETING 

• 

suspicion that the chicken is not young press the finger 

under the breast-bone or wing. If tender, the pressure 
will break the skin. 

Young geese have yellow feet and bills, (when old, they 
are reddish) . A goose, intended for the table, should not 
be older than six months or one year, or it is li-able to be 
tough. 

Hares and rabbits are only tender when young. See 
that the ears are soft and thin' and the claws sharp and 
smooth. 

The eyes ol fish should be bright, the fiesh firm, the gills 
of a bright red, and the smell natural but not of a dis- 
agreeal)le odor. 

To candle eggs, take a tube of pasteboard or tin, a lit- 
tle wider than an egg at one end and a little narrower at 
the other. Slip in the egg, then go into a dark room, 
look into the narrower end of the tube towards a burning 
candle or gas flame, provided for the purpose. If the egg 
looks clear, it is fresh. Or dissolve 2 tablespoonfuls of 
salt in 1/2 pint of water ; a fresh egg will sink, a stale one 
will float. Another simple test: Touch the tongue to 
both ends of the egg. If sound and fresh, the small end 
will be cold and the large end warm. Eggs a,lready 
candled can be bought at a slight advance. 

Vegetables and fruit must be perfectly ripe, fresh and 
crisp. "When soft and wilted, they are injurious to health. 

All potatoes and vegetables bought by the bushel 
should be weighed as provided by law — ^for instance, a 
bushel of potatoes must weigh sixty pounds, net without 
the basket. 

Always taste everything that can possibly be tasted be- 
fore buying ; do not depend upon the eye ; it is deceptive. 

Fowl and fish should be '"pulled" by the storekeeper, 
and fish should be sold at net weight after pulling. 

To be a good caterer, it is not always advisable' to 
buy where food stuffs are sold the cheapest becaiise of 



MARKETING 299 

the fact that meats, vegetables and other products may 
have been kept in unwholesome places before being of- 
fered for sale. The good housewife will always aim to 
buy direct from a good market-place, from farmers ' wag- 
ons or from first- class stores. 

It is poor economy to purchase anything simply because 
it is cheap; this is especially true of food articles. Be- 
ware of wilted vegetables, decayed fruit, tainted meat, 
cold storage or canned goods, which may be offered at 
low prices. To avoid danger to health or life, take every 
precaution to select only the best. 

There are of course, many conscientious dealers but 
there are also others who cannot be depended upon. The 
constant effort of speculators is to put meats and pro- 
visions into cold storage as soon as received. All cold 
storage food loses its flavor. 

How to Choose Lobsters. 

When recently caught, lobsters always have some re- 
mains of muscular action in the claws, which may be ex- 
cited by pressing the eyes with the finger ; when this can- 
not be produced, the lobster must have been too long kept. 
"When boiled, the tail preserves its elasticity if fresh, but 
loses it as soon as it becomes stale. The heaviest lobsters 
are the best ; when light th^y are watery and poor. Hen 
lobsters may generally be known by the spawn or by the 
breadth of the flap. 




Cut ham and beef thin; pork, lamb, veal and mutton a 
little thicker. A sirloin of beef, if extra thick, should be 
cut into thin slices, using the point of the knife to loosen 
the slices from the bone. First carve the upper portion, 
then the under-cut. Slice a roast of beef towards ,the ribs. 

A neck of veal or mutton should have the back-bone 
joints cut through before cooking, so that a rib may be 
taken with every second or third slice. Otherwise it is 
easier to cut the slices diagonally. 

A leg or loin of pork should have the skin scored, (out 
through) before cooking as the crackling (crisp skin) is 
too crisp or tough to carve at the table. If scored too far 
apart, the cai'ver can lift the crackling aside to cut thin- 
ner slices. Always cut across the grain (at right angle 
to the bone and not lengthwise). 

If carving a leg of mutton, take hold of the bone end 
with the left hand and cut away the portion not to be 
eaten, with a firm stroke of the knife. 

Then cut thin slices down to the bone and loosen each 
slice by putting the knife flat on the bared bone and cut- 
ting through. The slicing should gradually change direc- 
tion slightly, so as to cut always across the grain. After 
the upper portion is gone, carve the undercut in a similar 
way. 

A chicken is best carved by first cutting off the legs and 
wings, then the breast, and cutting each side of the breast 

300 



CAEVING' 301 

in two pieces across. The leg is easily cut in this way; 
sticking the carving fork through it from above, lay the 
flat knife firmly against the body, pull the handle of the 
fork down to the table, lift the prongs up slightly, and 
then as the joint gives way, cut and loosen with point of 
the knife exactly at the joint. The wing is treated in a 
similar way. The leg is generally cut into two pieces, at 
the joint. If a large fowl, the thigh may be cut in two 
pieces along the bone. 

A duck is carved the same .as chicken or similar fowls. 

The leg and wing of a turkey are cut off on one side the 
same as other fowls, then the breast is sliced off. Then 
the other side is carved. If the turkey is large, the legs 
may be cut up in nice slices after taking them off, which 
with a small one is hardly practicable. 

A ffoose, of course, is carved similarly to the turkey. 

To free a turkey leg from sinews, work the leg at the 
joint, pressing the thumb into the flesh, and at the same 
time give a rotary movement to the joint. Do this for 
two or three minutes or until the joint loosens and the flesh 
becomes soft. Then with a sharp knife make an incision 
about an inch long just inside the leg from the joint 
toward the body. Use a heavy skewer (steel or wooden 
pin) , and pick up the sinews one at a time and draw out. 
Each leg contains eleven sinews. When all have been 
taken out, cut the leg at the joint and with a needle and 
thread draw the edges of the skin closely together. 



302 



CAEVING 



OX, SHOWING THE MODE OF CUTTING 
UP THE VARIOUS JOINTS. 









HlND-QUAETEB. 




FOEE-QUAETEB. 


1. 


Sirloin. 


10. 


Fore rib (5 ribs). 


2. 


Eump. 


' 11. 


Middle rib (4 ribs). 


3. 


Aitchbone. 


12. 


Chuck rib (3 ribs). 


4. 


Buttock. 


13. 


Leg of mutton piece 


5. 


Mouse-round. 


14. 


Brisket. 


6. 


Veiny piece. 


15. 


Clod. 


7. 


Thick flank. 


16. 


Neck. 


8. 


Thin flank. 


17. 


Shank. 


9. 


Leg. 


18, 


Cheek. 




JANUARY 

Clam Soup 

Roast Turkey, Bread Stuffing 

Mashed Potatoes Parsnips 

Celery 

Cranberry Sherbet 

Mince or Custard Pie Cracked Nuts 

Coffee Demi-Tasse Tea 



Bouillon in Cups 

Boiled Haddock, Mustard Sauce 
Stewed Onions Baked Potatoes 

French Pancake Imperial Fruit Salad 

Fairy Food, Assorted Cake 

Cocoa Coffee Tea 
303 



304 MENUS 

Tomato Soup 

Eoast Turkey, Cranberry Sauce 
Artichokes, Jerusalem French Fried Potatoes 

Nuts and Raisins Bride's Salad Brie Cheese 

Tea Coffee 

FEBRUARY 

Cream of Celery 

, Fricassee of Tongue 

Fried Parsnips Saratoga Potatoes 



Custard Pie Orange Pudding 


Nuts and Raisins 


Chocolate 


Soup a I'Aurore 


Pickles 


Baked Ham Puree of Peas 


ed Potatoes Sauer Kraut 


Fruit Salad 


Coffee 



MENUS 305 

Egg Soup 

N«w England Boiled Dinner 

Celery Salad 

Grapes Baked Indian Pudding 

Cheese 

Chocolate Coffee Tea 

MARCH 

Cider Soup 

Boast Duck, Currant Jelly Squash 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes Eice Croquettes 

Pickled Beet Salad 

Pumpkin Pie Cranberry Pie 

Coffee, Demi-Tasse 



Oyster Soup 

Baked Shad, Drawn Butter Sauce 
Boiled Potatoes Browned Turnips 

Lobster Salad 

Nuts and Raisins Bed Pudding, Vanilla Sauce 

Tea 



306 MENUS 

Consommee with Macaroni 

Pickles 

Fricassee of Veal Saratoga Potatoes 

Baked Sweet Potatoes A.sparagus 

Lemon Meringue Pie Cheese 

Coffee 

APRIL 

White Soup 

Roast Mutton Potatoes Au Gratin 

Mountain Trout 

Brussels Sprouts Lettuce Salad 

Baked Apple Dumpling, Wine Sauce 

Chocolate 



Celery Soup 

Squab Chicken New Potatoes 

Cauliflower 

Orange Salad 

Cheese Straws 

Coffee 



MENUS 307 

Chicken Broth 

Roast Quail, Currant Jelly 
Spinach 

Lobster Salad 

Baked Apples Cake 

Coffee X Tea 

MAY 

Rice Soup 

Spring Chicken, Boiled Potatoes 
Asparagus Beet Greens 

Radish and Lettuce Salad 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Cocoa Coffee Tea 



Vegetable Soup 

Broiled Squab, Apple Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes 

Dandelion Salad 

iOiubarb Pie Bread Pudding 

Tea Chocolate 



308 MENUS 

Pea Soup 
Macaroni and Cheese 

Lamb Chops, Green Peas Gold Slaw 

Creamed Potatoes 

Strawberries in Cream 

Coffee 

,- JUNE 
Consomme Julienne 

Fried Soft Shell Crabs 

Chicken Pie Mashed Potatoes 

Green Peas 

Tomato Mayonnaise 

Wafers Cheese 

Vanilla lee Cream Apple Pie 

Tea Coffee Milk 



Onion Soup 

Baked Salmon, Sauce Tartar* 
Boiled Rice 

Cucumber Salad 

Strawberry Shortoakc 

C(?ffee 



MENUS 301 

Puree of Peas 

Baked Red Snapper, Tomato Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Buttered Beets 

Cold Slaw with Mayonnaise 

Widow's Peach Pudding 

OoSee Tea 

JULY 

Potato Soup 

Sweet Bread Croquettes, Tomato Sauce 

Boast Lamb, Mint Sauce 
Spinach 

String Bean Salad 

Wafers Cantaloupe Cheese 

Milk Sherbet 

Coffee 



Cream of Cauliflower 

Boiled Pike, Bechamel Sauce 
Boiled Potatoes 

Eice Croquettes 



310 MENUS 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad-' 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Cocoa Tea Grape-juice 



Tomato Soup 

Boiled Beef, Horseradish Sauce 
Pickled Beets Fried Potatoes 

Cucumber Salad 

Cheese Crackers 

Iced Watermelon 

English Breakfast Tea 

AUGUST 

Consomme with Spinach 

Celery 

Roast Chicken, Giblet Gravy. 

Browned Potatoes Summer Squash 

■* 

Stuffed Tomatoes, French Dressing 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Coffee Iced Tea Buttermilk 



MENUS 311 

White Bean Soup 

Broiled Mushrooms 

Baked Bluefish, Egg Sauce 
Mashed Potatoes Green Corn 

Lettuce and Cucumber Salad 

Grapes Cherries 

Coffee 



Cream of Pea _Soup 

Lamb Stew Dumplings 

Boiled New Potatoes Green Peas 

Fruit Salad Cheese "Wafers 

Caramel Custard Watermelon 

Coffee Tea 

SEPTEMBER 

Consomme with Vermicelli 

Celery 

Fricassee of Chicken, Dumplings 
Cauliflower Mashed Potatoes 

Lobster Salad 



312 MENUS 

Osage Cantaloupe Cheeae 

Blackberry Pie Chocolate Blanc Mange 

Coffee, Demi-Tasse 



Cream of Shrimps 

Boiled Whitefish, Tomato Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes Turnips 

Corn Fritters 

Mixed Vegetable Salad 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Tea Coffee 



Ideal Bean Soup 
* — 

Broiled Steak French Fried Potatoes 

Combination Salad Green Peas 

Peach Cobbler Cantaloupe 

Coffee Tea 

OCTOBER 

Raw Oysters 

Consomme in Cups 
Boast Pork, Apple Sauc« 



MENUS 313 

Baked Sweet Potatoes Tomatoes 

Merry Widow's Salad 

Muskmelon Prunes with Whipped Cream 

Cocoa Coffee Tea 



Vegetable Soup 

Baked Whitefish, Drawn Butter Sauce 
Boiled Sweet Potatoes Squash 

Bean Salad 

Pumpkin Pie Apple Pie 

Coffee Tea Chocolate 



White Soup 

Boiled Corned Beef' Boiled Cabbage 
Boiled Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 

Strawberry Ice Cream Lemon Pie Cheese 

Tea Coffee Cocoa 



314 MENUS 

NOVEMBER 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Roast Goose,' Stewed Gooseberries 

Boiled Potatoes 

Baked Winter Squash Tufnips 

Fruit Salad 

Pumpkin Pie Suet Pudding 

Cheese Coffee 



Pea Soup 

Broiled Mackerel, Maitre d 'hotel Butter 
Mashed Potatoes Cauliflower 

Celery Salad 

Boiled Custard Cake 

Coffee 



Noodle Soilp 



Fried Oysters 
Meat Balls Rice with Apples 

Apple Pie Cheese 

Coffee Tea 



MENUS 315 

Tomato Soup 

Saddle of Mutton, Currant Jelly 
Mashed Potatoes Corn 

Imperial Salad 

Custard Pie " Ice Cream 

Coffee Cocoa 



Celery Soup 

Braised Round Steak Potatoes au Gratin 

Creamed Peas 

Bean Salad 

Baked Custard 

Coffee ' Tea 



Cream of Cauliflower 

Braised Mutton Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Beets 

Squash Pie Brie Cheese 

English Breakfast Tea 



316 MENUS 

PEOEMBER 

Oysters 

Broiled Prairie Chicken, Currant Jelly 
Creamed Potatoes Fried Parsnips 

Cabbage, Mayonnaise Dressing 

English Plum Pudding 

Coffee Tea Milk 



Egg Soup 

Codfish Balls, Old Zealand Sauce 
Baked Potatoes Rice with Tomatoes 

Oyster Salad 

Blueberry Pie Vanilla Ice Cream 

Chocolate 



Soup a I'Aurore 

Macaroni with Ham au gratin 

( 

Veal Cutlets Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Bean Salad 

Pineapple Ice Peach Pie Cheese 

Coffee 



MENUS 317 

Tomato Soup 

Roast Spareribs, Apple Sauce 
Baked Potatoes Stewed Tomatoes 

Stuffed Tomatoes, Mayonnaise 

Charlotte Russe Bananas in Jelly 
Coffee Cocoa Tea 



Oyster Cocktail 

Roast Duck Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Carrots 

Medley Salad Toasted Crackers 

Pumpkin Pie Cheese 

Coffee, Demi-Tasse 



Tomato Soup 



Beef Brisket Pot Roast Brown Gravy 

Escalloped Potatoes Parsnips 

Mixed Fruit Salad 

Baked Apple Dumplings 

Cocoa Whipped Cream , 



318 MENUS 

Consomme Salted Wafers 

Baked Chicken Bread Dressing 

Gravy Mashed Potatoes 

BroAHTied Parsnips 

Cabbage Salad 
Bavarian Peach Cream Lady Fingers 

Coffee 



THANKSGIVma DINNER 

Oysters on the Half Shell 

Celery 

Asparagus Soup 

- Olives Salted Almonds Pickles 

.Roast Turkey, Uiblet Sauce, Cranberry Jelly 
ashed Potatoes Cauliflower Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Cranberry Sherbet 

Broiled Quail, French Peas Currant Jelly 
Lettuce Salad 

Boman Punch 

Mince Pie Pumpkin Pie 

Chocolate or Vanilla Ice Cream Cake Suet Puddina 



MENUS 819 

Fruit 
Eoquefort Cheese Crackers 

Cider Coffee, Demi-Tasse 



CHRISTMAS DINNER 

Blue Points 
Salted Almonds Celery Sweet Chowehow 

Terrapin Soup 

Boiled Black Bass Princess Potatoes 

Merry Widow Salad 

Boast Turkey stuffed with Chestnuts, Cranberry Sauce 
Sweet Potatoes Green Peas 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms 

Prairie Chicken, Watercresses 

English Plum Pudding, Brandy Sauce Lemon Pie 

Nesselrode Puddiag Fruit Cake 

Fruits Candy 

Brie or Roquefort Cheese 
Cranberry Sherbet Coffee, Demi-tasse 



320 MENUS 

EASTER DINNER 

Easter EggB a la Busse 

Oyster Cocktail 

Egg Soup 
Celery Olives Cracked Almonds 

Boiled Halibut, Egg Sauce Boiled Potatoes 

Salmi of Pigeons Yinegarette Asparagus 

Fruit Punch 
Roast Chicken Waldorf Salad 

Bird's Nest Ice Cream Cheese 

Coffee 



WEDDING DINNER 

Oysters or Clams 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

Olires Celery Radishes 

Lobster a la Newburg on Toast 

Roast Chicken Stuffed, Giblet Sauce 

Browned Potatoes Cauliflower in Cream 

Brandied Peaches 

Waldorf Salad 

Berry Ice Cream The Bride 's Sponge Cake 

.Chocolate Coffee Tea 



THE HOME 



ECONOMY 

Domestic Economy, that branch of Domestic Science 
which treats of the economical and skillful management 
of household affairs, is based upon scientific knowledge 
and practical experience. 

This Science is now being introduced into the gram- 
mar schools and many of the high schools, and it should 
have a good influence in leading young women more 
correctly to estimate the importance and dignity of house- 
hold economics. 

Health is the first and most important consideration 
of Domestic Economy. It is true, the comfort and pros- 
perity of the home largely depend upon a good and wise 
use of the money provided for its maintenance; but 
neither comfort nor prosperity can be enjoyed in any 
household without good health. 

The guiding principles, therefore, in the management 
of the home should be founded upon strict attention to 
hygienic laws. 

The actual things to be studied in Domestic Science are 
the daily necessaries of life. The first and most essential 
is food — its varieties, digestion, preparation and uses ; for 
the health, happiness and contentment of the home de- 
pend largely upon the knowledge of the good and bad 
qualities of foods, and how to select and prepare them 
in accordance with the law-s of health. 

Domestic Economy teaches how to spend money as well 
as how to save it. Mere parsimony is not economy, and 
the woman who is close or stingy is not always economical. 
There is a true economy and a false economy. Domestic 
Science enables the housekeeper to distinguish the true 
from the false. 

321 



322 THE HOME 

Warmth, Light and Clothing. — True economy provides 
a sufficiency of warmth, clothing and light, knowing thjct 
stinting in any of these items will either lead to forced 
expenditure in other directions or in the doctor's and 
optician's bills. 

Repairs.— i=-True economy keeps everything in the house 
in a state of careful repair; false economy saves this 
small, outlay, but ultimately is put to the greater ex- 
pense of either buying new goods or paying for more 
costly and extensive repairs. 

Table and House Linen. — True economy keeps the stock 
of house and table linen replenished ; false economy saves 
this expense, but when all is fallen into a condition of ex- 
treme shabbiness it is put to the excessive -outlay of buy- 
ing a whole new stock instead of replacing the necessary 
articles from time to time. 

Tools. — True economy provides proper tools and ap- 
pliances for household work, whereas through false 
economy time, patience and temper are lost in attempt- 
ing to manage without them. 

Materials. — True economy buys only good materials, 
whether in clothing or food; false economy buys cheap 
goods that most always prove to be unsatisfactory, or in 
the case of food are not wholesome. False economy buys 
articles at sales merely because of cheapness. In this 
way much money is frittered away, and the goods that 
have been so purchased rarely prove useful. 

Savings. — True economy saves money and invests it in 
some safe and profitable way as a provision for the rainy 
day. False economy spends all its earnings vdthout ob- 
taining real comfort, as what it saves by parsimony in 
one direction it is compelled to spend in another, proving 
"a penny wise and a pound foolish," 



THE HOME 323 

HEAT ECONOMY. 

If health and life are to he sustained with the least 
\\'aste of vitality and force, it is important that a degree 
of uniformity should be maintained in the temperature 
of the home. 

The temperature of the human body is invariably the 
same, between that of 98 and 99 degrees Fahrenheit, the 
difference under normal conditions being unimportant. 

The human body possesses its own power of regulating 
the temperature. Should the outer air be extra cold, 
then the process of oxidation is carried on more quickly, 
more food is consumed, and more heat is produced and 
the temperature is thereby maintained. If the air is ex- 
tremely hot, much of the blood is carried to the surface 
of the skin, considerable prespiration is secreted and 
passes to the surface of the body, where its evaporation 
lowers the temperature, and maintains its normal heat. 

But both processes are wasteful and if used constantly 
would consume the food and energy that are required for 
other purposes. The extra amount of food needed in the 
first case would make greater demands upon the digestive 
organs, and therefore leave less margin for brain work, 
while the excessive loss in the second case would weaken 
the system. Therefore it is necessary to secure a medium 
in the temperature of the home. Air is a much poorer 
conductor of heat than water is, and can therefore be 
borne much cooler, so, while a temperature of 60 degrees 
Avould be found unpleasantly cold in a bath, it is generally 
considered as the point of comfort to the body when ex- 
posed to the air. 

Great individual differences are noticed with different 
persons, some requiring a much warmer atmosphere than 
others. 

As a rule, children require a warmer atmosphere than 
adults, for the relative amount of surface whereby the 
body loses heat is greater in a child, therefore heat leaves 



324 ■ THE HOME 

the body more rapidly. Old people and invalids require 
more warmth than the average healthy adult, because the 
vital processes in the body proceed more gradually, hence 
they cannot take the necessary exercise for maintaining 
vital heat. An atmosphere of from 55 to 60 degrees within 
doors is usually regarded as the best for healthy adults 
and from 60 to 65 degrees for old people, invalids and 
children. 

One's feelings are unreliable for ascertaining the tem- 
perature of a room, because heat and cold are relative 
terms. A room that would appear warm to a person 
coming in from the cold outer air, would seem cold to 
one who had been cooking over a hot fire. Often a room 
is pronounced ' ' hot, ' ' when, as a matter of fact, it is only 
close and stuffy. A thermometer, therefore, should be 
hung in the room where the average* degree of heat can 

be ascertained. 

/ 

KITCHEN EQUIPMENTS 

The chief essentials of a convenient and well kept 
kitchen: The kitchen should be large, light, airy and 
properly ventilated; it should be easy of access without 
passing through other rooms of the house ; it should be 
apart from the living rooms to prevent the noise of rat- 
tling dishes, and the odor of the cooking from being car- 
ried through the house; the pantry should be located in 
a convenient place; plenty of fuel and water should be 
provided. 

The wood work of the kitchen should be washed, and 
when necessary, scoured sufficiently often to keep it per- 
fectly clean and sweet. A square of carpet of some suit- 
able pattern should be placed on the floor and taken up 
and shaken frequently; the walls and ceiling should be 
calcimined early in the spring of each year. 



THE HOME 



325 



The kitchen should be properly furnished with utensils 
and appliances necessary for the successful preparation 
of foods. 

Grranite-ware cooking utensils have almost entirely sup- 
planted those made of tin or iron. This ware is merely 
iron-ware coated ^^'ith an enamel that resists fire and acid, 
resembling granite in color. Nickel and aluminum wares 
are also much in use, but of course much more expensive. 

The number, size and variety of the utensils must be 
regulated according to circumstances. The following list 
will' serve as a guide for those who have occasion to fur- 
nish the kitchen of an ordinary house or flat. It is not 
necessary, however, to purchase all the different articles 
included in the list, but only the ones best adapted for 
the special needs. 

The modern kitchen should be supplied with all nec- 
essary kettles, baking pans and other cooking utensils 
suitable for preparing the food. The following list has 
been carefully selected: 



1. 


Table and chairs 


14. 


Dust-pan 


2. 


Towel rack 


1-5. 


Drainer 


3. 


Receptacles for flour. 


16. 


Refuse holder 




sugar, salt, cereals, 


17. 


Rolling-pin 




coffee, tea, spices. 


18. 


Clock 




molasses, vinegar 


19. 


Pastry-cutters 


4. 


Coffee-mill 


20. 


Skewers 


5. 


Sink strainer 


21. 


Meat-saw 


6. 


Broom 


22. 


Lemon squeezer 


7. 


Scrubbing brush 


23. 


Can-opener 


8. 


"Wash-basin 


24. 


Apple corer 


9. 


Dish-pan 


25. 


"Wooden spoon 


10. 


Slaw-cutter 


26. 


Cooking-fork 


11. 


Potato-masher 


27. 


Large iron spoon 


12. 


Bread board 


28. 


Egg-beater 


13. 


ileat-board 


29. 


Bread-knife 



m 


THE HOME 


30. 


Case knaves and forks 


63. 


Earthenware bowls 


31. 


Spoons 


64. 


Platters 


32. 


Cooking knife 


65. 


Plates 


33. 


Quick bread mixer 


66.. 


Cups and Saucers 


34. 


Cabbage strainer 


67. 


Small scales 


35. 


Fruit and vegetable 


68. 


Oraduated cup 




slieer 


69. 


Meat and fruit grind- 


36. 


Three-fold grater 




ers 


37. 


Vegetable knife 


70. 


Crocks 


38. 


Butcher's knife 


71. 


Pint measure 


39. 


Wire forks 


72. 


Rapid steamer 


40. 


Basting spoons 


73. 


Egg-poacher 


41. 


Oyster knife 


>74. 


Pie- cup 


42. 


Fruit-stoner 


75. 


Gravy Strainers 


43. 


Sink tidy 


76. 


Pudding molds 


44, 


Eush mats for table 


'77. 


Dripping-pan 


45. 


Chamois skins 


78. 


Cake-pans 


46. 


Toaster 


79. 


Pudding dishes 


47. 


Wire-ring dishcloth 


80. 


Sauee dishes 


48. 


Coffee-pot 


81. 


Vegetable dishes 


49. 


Tea-pot 


82. 


Mu^n pans and rings 


50. 


Dredgers-salt, pepper, 


83. 


Gem pans 




flour 


84. 


Broiler for meat 


51. 


Skimmer 


85. 


Broiler for fish 


52. 


Gridiron 


86. 


Potato or vegetable 


53. 


Frying pans 




presser 


54. 


Frying-basket 


87. 


Ice cream freezer ' 


55. 


Bread-box ' 


88. 


Ice-pick 


56. 


Cake-box 


89. 


Wire ice-tongs 


57 


Flour-scoop 


90. 


Nickel teakettle 


58. 


Sugar-scoop 


91. 


Nickel chafing-dish 


59; 


Waffle-iron 


92. 


Pie pans 


60. 


Double broilers 


93. 


Iron kettle, porcelain 


61. 


Double boilers 




lined 


62-. 


Chopping bowl and 
knife 







FOODS FOR EACH MONTH 

January. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, cod, dace, eels, haddocks, hali- 
but, herrings, lampreys, mackerel, red snappers, salmon, 
salmon trout, skate, shad and roe, smelts, soles, white- 
bait, whitefish. 

. Shell-fish: Clams, crawfish, lobsters, oysters, scallops, 
shrimps. 

Meats : Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, guinea fowl, pigeons, 
pullets, squabs, turkeys. 

Game: Bear, brant, buffalo, grouse, opossum, part- 
ridges, pheasants, quails, rabbits, reed-birds, rice-birds," 
snipes, squirrels, wild ducks^ wild geese, wild turkeys, 
woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, broccoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, 
chicory, cresses, cucumbers (forced), egg-plant, endive, 
lettuces, mushrooms (cultivated), onions, oyster-plant, 
parsnips, potatoes, pumpkins, savoys, spinach, squashes 
(winter Hubbard), turnips. 

Fruits : Apples, bananas, dates, figs, grape-fruit, grapes 
(Malaga), lemons, oranges, pears, pineapples, pomegran- 
ates, prunes, -raisins. 

February. 

Fish: Same kinds that are seasonable in January. 

Shell-fish: Clams, lobsters, oysters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Capons, chickens, ducklings, pigeons, pullets 
with eggs, turkeys, squabs. 

Vegetables: Beets, Brussel sprouts, cabbages, egg- 
plant, lettuce, mushrooms. 

32r 



328 FOODS FOR EACH MONTH 

Game : Golden plover, grouse, reed-bird, rice-bird, wild 
fowl, woodcock. 

Fruits: Apples, grape-fruit, lemons, oranges, pine- 
apples. 

March. 

Fish: Black bass, "carp, haddocks, halibut, mack- 
erel, perch, shad, smelts, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobst&rs, oysters, scallops, 
shrimps. 

Meats : Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, young guinea fowl, geese, 
turkeys. 

Game : Grouse, partridges, prairie chickens, pheasants, 
quails, plover, teal, woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, cabbages, celery, kidney-beans, let- 
tuce, parsnips, potatoes, sea-kale, spinach, turnips. 

Fruits: Apples, grape-fruit, lemons, oranges, pineap- 
ples, pomegranates, tangerines. 

April. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, haddocks, halibut, mackerel, 
salmon, shad, smelts, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats : Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, pullets, 
squabs. 

Game: Grouse, partridges, prairie chickens, quails, 
plovers, woodcock. 

Vegetables: Celery, lettuce, new beets, new carrots, 
onions, parsnips, radishes, rhubarb, spinach. 

Fruits: . Apples, pears, strawberries. 

May. 
Fish : Black bass, carp, catfish, haddock, halibut, mack- 
erel, red snapper. 



FOODS FOR EACH MONTH 329 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, 
shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducklings, guinea fowls, geese, pul- 
lets. 

Game : Wild pigeons. 

Vegetables : Asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cauli- 
flower, cresses, cu^cumbers, lettuce, new potatoes, radishes, 
rhubarb, tomatoes. 

Fruits : Apples, apricots, lemons, oranges, pears, straw- 
berries. 

June. 

Pish: Black base, cat-fish, cod, halibut, perch, white- 
fish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, lobsters, scallops, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducklings, guinea fowls, pullets. 

Game: Doe-birds, venison (buck or male deer), wild 
pigeons. 

Vegetables: Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbages, 
cucumbers, lettuce, onions, parsnips, peas, potatoes, rad- 
ishes, spinach, tomatoes. 

Fruits: Apples, apricots, lemons, oranges, pears, rasp- 
berries, strawberries. 

July. 

Fish: Black bass, bluefish, cod, haddock, halibut, 
mackerel, pike, smelts, whitebait, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducklings, pigeons, pullets. 

Game: Doe-birds, venison (buck), wild pigeons. 

Vegetables: Asparagus, beans, cauliflower, celery, 
cresses, green corn, mushrooms, onions, peas, tomatoes, 
turnips. 



330 FOODS FOR EACH MONTH 

Fruits: Apricots, blackberries, cherries, currants, 
gooseberries, grapes, melons, peaches, plums, raspberries, 
strawberries, tamarinds. 

August. 

Pish: Black bass, blackfish, bluefish, flounders, pike, 
salmon, sturgeon, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons. 

Game: Antelope, doe-birds, squirrels, venison (buck 
or male deer), woodcock. 

Vegetables: Asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cel- 
ery, cresses, green corn, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, peas, 
pieplant, potatoes, sweet potatoes, radishes, tomatoes, tur- 
nips. 

Fruits: Apples, blackberries, cranberries, currants, 
gooseberries, grapes, peaches, pears, nineapples^ plums, 
raspberries. 

September. 

Fish: Black bass, catfish, pickerel, pike, salmon, stur- 
geon, turbot, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, 
shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, pullets, tur- 
keys. 

Game: Doe-birds, opossum, venison (buck), woodcock. 

Vegetables: ' Beans, beets, cabbages, carrots, celery, 
cresses, cucumbers, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, parsnips, 
peas, potatoes, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, turnips. 

Fruits: Apples, blackberries, blueberries, cranberries, 
gooseberries, grapes, melons, nectarines, peaches, pears, 
pineapples, plums, raspberries, whortle-berries, 



POOT>S, FOft EACfi MONTtt 331 

October. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, cod, halibut, mackerel, red 
snappers, salmon, smelts, whitebait. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, 
shrimps. 

Meats: Beef, lamb, mutton, pork; veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, pullets, tur- 
keys. 

Game: Doe-birds, opossum, squirrels, venison (doe or . 
female deer), woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, cabbages, carrots, cauliflower, cel- 
ery, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, peas, tomatoes, potatoes, 
turnips. 

Fruits: Apples, blackberries, cranberries, figs, grapes, 
paw-paws, pears, persimmons. 

November. 

Fish: Black bass, carp, catfish, cod, dace, mackerel, 
salmon, whitefish. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, 
sTirimps. 

Meats: Beef, mutton, pork, veal. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, turkeys. 

Game: Doe-birds, opossum, snipes, squirrels, venison, 
(doe or female deer), woodcock. 

Vegetables: Beets, cabbages, carrots, celery, mush- 
rooms, onions, potatoes, spinach, sweet potatoes. 

Fruits: Apples, cranberries, grapes^ pears. 
December. 

Fish : Same as for January. 

Shell-fish: Clams, crabs, lobsters, oysters, scallops, 
shrimps. 

Meats : Beef, lamb, mutton, pork. 

Poultry: Chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons. 

Game : Same as for January. 

Vegetables : Same as for January.. 

Fruits : Same as for January. 



DON'TS FOR THE KITCHEN 



1. Don't wash meats more than is absolutely necessary, 
especially game and fowl, because it has a tendency to 
destroy the ng,tu-ral savor or sweetness. 

2. Don't throw out fat after frying or boiling pork 
or bacon but keep until there is a quart or more, then 
simmer over slow fire till the fat ceases to bubble. Turn 
off the clear fat from the sediment. The fat makes ex- 
cellent shortening. 

3. Don't put cheese, muskmelons, onions or other pun- 
gent articles in the refrigerator as the odor will taint the 
milk, butter and other foods. 

4. Don't forget to have the oven, whether fire or gas, 
at proper heat before putting in meat or pastry. 

5. Don't have a hot oven for simple milk puddings or 
the milk will curdle. 

6. Don't forget fresh meat should be put in boiling 
water ; salt meat into cold water. 

7. Don't forget good frying is boiling in fat instead 
of water, therefore the boiling fat must cover tire food 
that is fried. 

8. Don't slam the oven door when baking eak«s or pas- 
try or the cold air will spoil or make them heavy. 

9. Don't forget in boiling meat that it must not be al- 
lowed to boil. In boiling vegetables do not let the boiling 
stop. 

10. Don 't put salmon to boil with cold water, always 
have the water hot, because it retains the color of the 
fish. 

11. Don't guess the quantity of anything, always 
weigh or ^measure. Accuracy is important in the kitchen. 

332 



DON'TS FOR THE KITCHEN 333 

12. Don't open the oven door while pastry is baking 
until it has been in at least seven minutes to set. 

13. Don't forget that a dirty oven is liable to spoil 
the flavor of anything cooked in it. 

14. Don't cover the heads of asparagus when boiling. 
Tie firmly, stand them upright, only place water up to the 
green part. 

15. Don't let soup boil, only simmer, the excellence of 
the soup largely depends upon this. 

16. Don't boil potatoes too quickly, or they will be 
soft outside and hard inside. 

17. Don't butter cake tins; warm them and then rub 
with a piece of beeswax, which gives a nice glazed ap- 
pearance to cakes. 

18. Don't make custard without scalding the milk, 
which should be poured hot on the eggs. 

19. Don't serve greens or onions until they have been 
boiled in two waters at least. 

20. Don't boil eggs; put into boiling water, cover 
with lid, remove from fire for five minutes. The eggs 
will be thoroughly cooked, light and digestible. 

21. Don't boil clear soup, let simmer ; boiling clouds it. 

22. Don't boil milk, which loses virtue at boiling 
point ; scald by placing vessel containing milk into a pan 
of boiling water until it creams. 

23. Don 't cook milk puddings quickly. 

24. Don't fry anything unless the fat is boiling, be- 
cause it makes the food heavy or sodden.- 

25. Don't put sauce pans away "soiled" after using 
them, wash well with boiling water, and dry with a clean 
cloth. 

26. Don't leave the lid of the sauce pan on when boil- 
ing cabbage, it spoils the color. 

27. Don't allow articles of food or other things to ac- 
cumulate ; when cooking, clear up as you go. 



334 DON'TS FOR THE KITCHEN 

28. Don't wash omelet-pan after using; rub with a 
dust of hot dry salt and soft paper. 

29. Don't put vegetable, scrubbing or other brushes 
on backs, but always keep with the bristles down. 

30. .Don't throw away sour milk, it will make sweet 
light bread,-' griddle-cakes, tea-cakes, and pastry. 

31. Don''t waste cold vegetables; fritters, purees and 
salads can be excellently made from them. 

32. Don 't grill a steak on dull, smoky fire ; a sufficient 
quantity of dry salt thrown on will clear it. 

33. Don't put pastry into slow oven; the fat will melt 
out and the pastry will be hard. 

34. Don't leave food to get cold in the vessel in which 
it has been cooked, unless of earthenware. 

35. Don't keep canned provisions in the cans after 
being opened ; the air renders them unwholesome. 

36. ' Don't throw away burnt frying-fat; boil the fat, 
put in a raw carrot, the burnt taste will disappear. 

37. Don't buy in driblets ; purchase in bulk whenever possible, 
especially staples, such as sugars, spices, coffees, teas and seasonings 
of various kinds. A store-room built in one corner of the kitchen or 
near by, will be found valuable for keeping these and other household 
supplies. The things needed for the day should be weighed or meas- 
ured in the morning for the cook, and the door should then be locked. 
Potatoes and turnips should be kept in a temperature not cold enough 
to freeze them or warm enough to cause them to sprout. 

"Man, as a rule, is an impatient creature, especially when returning 
home after a day of work and worry. If the meal is not quite ready, 
don't make excuses but commence at once to set the table, leaving the 
impression that the meal is nearly ready. In the mean time hand him 
a newspaper or suggest some other pleasant pastime. His attention 
|fcaving been diverted, the meal, for the time being, will be forgotten 
until it is ready. This, of course, is a little deception, but it will work 
nine times out of ten, if shrewdly managed, and it is decidedly better 
than 'roasting' him or keeping him 'in a pickle.' A husband properly 
'cooked' is really delicious." 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS AND RECIPES 

Alabaster, to Clean and Remove Stains From. — 'iVash 

with soap and water, whitewash the stained part, let stand 
for several hours, then wash off the whitewash, and rub 
the stained part with a soft flannel. 

Alabaster, to Repair. — Alabaster may be repaired with 
white of egg and quick-lime, in the proportion of the white 
of 1 egg to 1 teaspoonful of lime, or with a little plaster 
of Paris made into a thick paste with a little water. 

Ammonia for Cleaning and Washing. — ^Liquid ammonia 
is the most powerful and useful agent known for cleaning 
silk stuffs and hats, and for neutralizing the efifects of 
acids. Many persons use ammonia in place of soap in 
washing clothes. One or two teaspoonfuls to a gallon of 
water is a good proportion. 

Beds and Bed Clothes. — The best bed is one of two kinds : 
A fairly soft feather bed laid upon a soft horse-hair mat- 
tress, or a thin mattress laid upon one of the elastic steel- 
spring beds. Heavy bedclothes are a mistake ; weight is 
no true means of warmth. The light down quilts or cover- 
lets are the best to use. One of these quilts takes well the 
place of two blankets, and they cause much less fatigue 
from weight than layer upon layer of blanket covering 
It should be the rule to learn so to adapt the clothing that 
the body is never cold and never hot while under the 
clothes. 

Bottles, to Clean. — As soon as emptied wash the bottles 
with warm water and wood ashes or saleratus, and put 
them away, mouth open and downward, but be careful to 
wash again when wanted for use, as flies and other insects 
frequently -get into open bottles. Or chop a large potato 
very fine and put it into the bottle with some warm water, 
and shake rapidly until bottle is clean. 

335 



336 HINT'S AND RECIPES 

Brass, to Clean and Polish.— 1. First remove all the 
stains, by rubbing the brass with a flannel dipped in vine- 
gar ; then polish with a leather and dry rottenstone. 2, 
Rub the surface of the metal with rottenstone and sweet 
oil, then rub off with a piece pf cotton flannel and polish 
with a piece of chamois skin. 

Britannia Metal, to Clean. — Rub with a piece of flannel 
moistened with sweet oil ; then apply a little pounded rot- 
tenstone or polishing paste with the finger till the polish 
is produced. Wipe off with a soft cloth, and polish with a 
chamois skin. 

Carpets, to Brighten. — After the dust has been beaten 
out, scatter upon the carpet corn-meal mixed with salt, 
and then sweep off. The salt and meal should be in equal 
proportions. 

Carpets, to Clean. — Take 2 ounces of aqua ammonia, 1 
quart of soft water, 1 teaspoonful of saltpetre, and 1 ounce 
of shaving soap finely scraped. Mix well, shake and let 
stand a few hours before using, to dissolve the soap. Pour 
on enough to cover any grease or oil that has been spilled, 
sponging and rubbing well ; then wash off with clear cold 
water. See Ink Stains. 

Carpets to Put Down. — Tack one end of the carpet 
down firmly ; then take a board from the dining roopi ex- 
tension table, or any other piece of board of about the 
same width, place one end of it on the carpet, push it along 
to the opposite side, and hold it there until tacks can be 
driven into "the carpet. Always work the way of the 
breadths of the carpet, and not across them. 

China, to Mend. — 1. Take a piece of flint-glass, beat to 
a fine powder, and mix well with the white of an egg. This 
will mend china so. that it cannot be broken again in the 
same place. (A most valuable inexpensive recipe and well 
worth the price of the book.) 2. Beat lime very fine then 
tie up in a piece of muslin or cheese-cloth. Brush some 



HINTS AND RECIPES 337 

white of egg over the edges of the china, dust the lime 
over rapidly, put the edges together, and tie a string 
around the article until it is firm. 

Coffee and Tea Stains, to Remove. — Stir the yolk of an 
egg into a cup of tepid water, add a few drops of glycer- 
ine. Rub the mixture well into the stain. 

Cook Stoves, Care of. — Take care that clinkers do not 
form on the lining of the stove, and if one does form, re- 
move carefully with the poker. At night the fire-box 
should be even full of coal after raking out all the dead 
cinders and ashes in the range ; never fill the stove with 
coal above the top of the linings. Never use a shaker 
when it is possible to avoid it; instead, use the poker 
freely, and the fire will burn better and consume less coal. 
When the fire from any cause becomes dull, do not stir 
it over the top or put in wood, but rake out the cinders 
and open the drafts. The ashes should never accumulate 
in the ash-pan so that they reach the grate, or the grate 
will be burned out. Always run the range so as to get all 
the heat needed without having the top red-hot, as this 
will warp the covers and centers, and if a little water 
should happen to fall on the stove while red-hot the top 
of the range is very apt to crack. Keep the stove well- 
blacked; if the lids get covered with grease turn them 
over and let the top of the lid come next the fire until the 
grease is all burned off. If the covers are red and the, 
blackening does not adhere, let them get wet, so that they 
will rust a little, and then black. See Nickel Ornaments. 

Copper, to Clean and Polish. — Copper articles may be 
as thoroughly cleaned and made as bright by washing 
them with a solrtion of salt and vinegar as by using oxalic 
acid, and this method has the advantage of running no 
risk of poisoning persons. Use as much salt as the vine- 
gar will dissolve and apply with a woolen rag, rubbing 
vigorously, then polish with pulverized chalk, and the 
article will look like new, with little labor. 



338 HINTS AND RECIPES 

Crockery, to Mend.— Take 4 pounds of white glue, % 
pound of isinglass, li/^ pounds of dryvwhite lead, 1 gallon 
of soft water, 1 quart of alcohol, and % pint of white 
varnish ; dissolve the glue and isinglass in water by gentle 
heat; stir in the lead, put -the alcohol in the varnish, and 
mix the whole together. Brush some of the mixture over 
the edges of the article to be mended, put edges together, 
bind firmly, and let dry. 

Curtains, How to Make.— Pretty and dainty curtains for 
the home can be made as follows: For 1 window take 6 
yards of plain white cheese-cloth ; cut each curtain 3 yards 
long. Make a ten-inch hem at bottom of curtain and with 
woven, knitted, or crocheted cotton lace five inches wide, 
ornament the bottom and the entire length of inside of 
curtain. Across the top of the curtain sew 2 strips 6f cre- 
tonne, leaving a four-inch space between the strips. Sew 
lace across the lower edge of lower strip and the curtain 
is complete. 

Curtain-rods can be easily run through the curtains if 
a thimble be placed on the end of rod to prevent catching 
in the fabric. 

Dishes, How to Wash. — The best way to wash dishes is 
to have 3 pans, one containing warm soap-suds, another 
warm clean water, and the other hot clear water. First 
wash and wipe the glassware ; next the silver, having a 
plate in the bottom of the pan for the silver to rest on ; 
then take the dishes, 1 at a time, wash theinsides in the 
suds, then place in the warm clear , water, where there 
should be a clean dish-cloth, and wash both sides, then 
i-inse in the hot water and drain off. A few drops of kero- > 
sene added to the water in which greasy dishes and pans 
are to be washed will work wonders, and will also keep the 
dishcloth free from disease germs. 

Disinfectants are used to remove disagreeable and un- 
wholesome odors, and to destroy the germs of contagious 
and infectious diseases. 1. The following is a refreshing 



HINTS AND RECIPES 339 

disinfectant for a sick room, or any room that has an un- 
pleasant aroma pervading it: Put some freshly ground 
coffee into a saucer, and in the center place a small piece 
of camphor gum, which light with a match. As the gum 
burns, allow sufficient coffee to consume with it. The per- 
fume is very pleasant and healthful, being far superior to 
pastiles, and very much cheaper. 2. Powdered charcoal 
is one of the best of disinfectants. It is very prompt in 
absorbing effluvia and gaseous bodies, as well as rendering 
harmless and even useful those bodies which are easily 
changed. 3. Common copperas, called sulphate of iron, 
in its crude state quite cheap, dissolved in water in pro- 
portion of 1 pound of copperas to 2 gallons of water, and 
throAvn over ill-smelling places, is one of the simplest and 
most convenient deodorizers, and is applicable to sinks, 
gutters and heaps of offal. 4. A weak solution of car- 
bolic acid exposed in saucers or shallow earthen dishes is 
a very effective disinfectant ; or a cloth saturated with it 
may be hung in the room where the offensive odor is ap- 
parent. 5. Chloride of lime is effective in absorbing put- 
rid effluvia and stopping putrefaction. It is often dele- 
terious, however, in close dwellings because of the chlorine 
evolved. It may be used safely in the open atmosphere. 

Feathers, to Glean. — Cut sufficient white curd soap in 
small pieces, pour on boiling water, and add a little pearl- 
ash; (commercial carbonate of potash) when the soap is 
dissolved, and the mixture cool enough for the hand to 
bear, plunge the feathers into it and draw them through 
the hand till the dirt appears to be squeezed out of them ; 
pass through a clean lather with some bluing in it ; then 
rinse in cold water with bluing to give them a good color ; 
beat them against the hand to shake off the water, and dry 
by shaking them near a fire. Black feathers may be 
cleaned with water and some ox gall, proceeding as above. 

Fruit Stains, to Remove. — 1. Recent stains of fruit of 
any kind may be removed by washing in hot water iji 



340 HINTS AND RECIPES 

which a little baking soda has been dissolved. 2. Old 
stains may be removed by placing the article over a basin 
of boiling water until thoroughly steamed, and then rub- 
bing salts of lemon upon the Stains. 3. Cover the stains 
with a paste of salt and lemon juice and lay in the sun all 
day, wetting every hour with lemon juice. At night throw 
into a tub of clear water and leave all night. Do the arti- 
cles up with borax soap in the usual way. 4. Almost all 
fruit stains can be taken out by soaking and rubbing in 
sweet milk before washing. 

Fumigation. — To fumigate and cleanse the air of an 
a'partment there is no more simple way than to heat a 
common iron shovel quite hot, and pour vinegar slowly 
upon it. Vinegar boiled with myrrh, sprinkled on the 
floor and furniture of a sick room, is an excellent de- 
odorizer. 

Furniture Polish. — 1. Take 1 pint of linseed oil, 1 wine- 
glass of alcohol; mix well together; apply with a linen 
rag, rub dry with a soft cotton cloth, and polish with a 
silk cloth. 2. Dissolve % ounce of castile soap in I/2 pint 
of boiling water ; scrape 2% ounces of white beeswax into 
y^, pint of turpentine ; place all together on the stove and 
let stand until thoroughly dissolved. Stir well, and keep 
tightly corked in a bottle. 3. To make a fine cleansing 
polish for furniture, take cold drawn linseed oil, 1 quart; 
gin or spirits of wine, % pint ; vinegar, % pint ; butter of 
antimony, 2 ounces ; spirits of turpentine, I/2 pint. Shake 
well before using. Apply with a soft rag. 

Furs, to Clean. — 1. White furs may be cleaned by lay- 
ing the fur on a table aild rubbing it well with bran made 
moist with warm water ; rub until quite dry, and then with 
dry bran. The wet bran should be put on with flannel, 
and the dry with a piece of book-muslin. In addition to 
the above the furs should be well rubbed with magnesia, 
2. Dark furs should be treated as follows : "Warm a quan- 
tity of new bran or oatmeal in a pan, taking care that it 



HINTS AND RECIPES 341 

does not burn, to prevent which it must be actively stir- 
red; when well warmed rub it thoroughly into the fur 
with a clean flannel rag or with the hand ; repeat this two 
or three times; then shake the fur, and give it a sharp 
brushing until free from dust. 

Furs, to Preserve. — Scent the box or drawer where the 
furs are kept with spirits of turpentine, camphor, or cedar 
wood. Take out the furs from the box or drawer fre- 
quently, beat well, and expose to the air. 

Furs, to Rivive. — Sprinkle with hot flour and sand and 
brush welt with a hard brush; then beat with a cane, or 
stick, comb smooth with a wet comb, and press carefully 
with a warm iron. For ermine use plaster of Paris instead 
of flour and sand and treat in the same way. 

Gilding, to Glean. — ^Remove all dust with a soft brush; 
then wash the gilding lightly and rapidly with warm 
water in which one medium sized onion Jias been boiled. 
This will prevent flyspecking. Dry by rubbing with soft 
cloths. 

Gilt Frames, to Clean and Revive. — 1. Carefully dust, 
and then wash with 1 ounce of soda beaten up with the 
whites of three eggs. 2. Take sufficient flour of sulphur 
to give a golden tinge to IV2 pints of water, and in this 
boil three or four onions. Strain off the liquid, and with 
it, when cold, wash with a soft brush any gilding which 
requires restoring, and when dry it will come out as bright 
as new work. 

Glass Stoppers, to Loosen. — ^Put 1 or 2 drops of sweet 
oil round the stopper, and place a little distance from the 
fire. When the bottle gets warm, strike the stopper with 
a stick having a cloth wrapped tightly around it, first on 
one side and then on the other, and it will soon become 
loosened. 

Gloves, Kid, to Clean. — 1. Suspend the gloves in a small 
jar of gasoline; cover the jar and let stand over night. 
Next morning hang them out in the air. In one hour or 



342 HINTS AND KECIPES- 

less the odor will be gone and the gloves will be clean 
and soft. 2. Put on one glove and rub it all over with a 
sponge wet with gasoline ; keep the glove on until nearly 
dry, avoiding stoves and lights ; then repeat the operation 
with the other glove. Hang the gloves in the air for an 
hour or two. Then put away witL a sachet. 

Gold Articles, to Restore Color of. — Dissolve 1 ounce of 
bicarbonate of soda, % ounce of chloride of lime, and % 
ounce of salt in 4 ounces of boiling water. Take a clean 
brush, and wash the article with the hot solution for a few 
seconds and rinse immediately in 2 clean waters. Dry in 
warm sawdust, and polish with tissue paper. 

Grease Spots, to Remove. — 1. Take % ounce of castile 
soap and shave or grate it into 1 quart of warm water; 
let cool, and then mix with it % ounce of alcohol, % ounce 
of glycerine, and i^ ounce af sulphuric ether. Apply with 
a sponge or flannel rag to the spots. 2. Cover the spots 
with French chalk, potter's clay, or magnesia; over this 
place a piece of brown paper ; set a moderately warm iron 
on this, and let remain until it gets "cold. 3. To remove 
grease spots from books, gently warm the spotted part, 
and then press upon it pieces of blotting paper, one after 
another, so as to absorb as much of the grease as possible. 
Have ready some fine, clear, essential oil of turpentine 
heated almost to a boiling state, warm the greased leaf a 
little, and then with a soft, clean brush apply the heated 
turpentine to both sides of the spotted part. Repeat this 
operation a few times, and the grease will be extracted; 
then, with another brush, dipped in rectified spirits of 
wine, go over the placte carefully, until the paper becomes 
smooth and clean. 4. Gasoline or benzine is excellent for 
cleaning coat collars, etc. The soiled portion should be. 
laid between 2 sheets of blotting paper, and the upper 
sheet well soaked with the liquid.- In this way the whole 
of the greasy matter becomes dissolved in a little while 
and absorbed by the paper. Care must be taken to avoid 



HINTS AND RECIPES 343 

fire or lights. 5. To remove grease spots from silk, take 
a lump of magnesia and rub it wet on the spot ; let it dry ; 
then brush it off, and the spot will disappear, 6. To re- 
move grease spots from wall paper, sprinkle baking &oda 
over blotting paper, place over the spot, and press a 
moderately warm iron against it for a few minutes. The, 
blotting paper will absorb the grease, and the spot on the 
wall paper will disappear. 

Hair Brushes, to Clean. — Dissolve a piece of washing 
soda the size of a walnut in a quart of water. Dip the 
brush into the water, bristles downwards, a number of 
times, being car ef til not to wet the back or handle any 
more than necessary. Rinse in cold water, and dry in the 
sun. 

Indelible Ink, to Make. — Take li/^ drams of nitrate of 
silver, 1 ounce of distilled water, I/2 ounce of strong muci- 
lage of gum arable, % dram of liquid ammonia. Mix in 
a clean glass bottle, cork tightly, and keep in a dark place 
till dissolved. To use, shake the bottle, then dip a clean 
quill pen in the ink; hold the writing or drawing near the 
fire, or pass a hot iron over, and it will become a deep and 
indelible black. 

Ink Spots, to Remove. — 1. To take ink out of linen, 
moisten with lemon juice, sprinkle well with salt, and lay 
in the sun; or, moisten with water', cover spot with 
powdered salts of lemon (made of equal parts of oxalic 
acid and tartaric acid), and in a few minutes the stain will 
disappear. 2. Milk will remove ink from colored muslins 
when acids would be ruinous. Soak till the spot is very 
faint, then rub and rinse in cold water. 3. Hot melted 
tallow poured through ink-spots will remove them. 

Ink Stains, to Remove. — 1. Ink stains may be removed 
from carpets by wetting with skim milk. Apply with a 
sponge as soon as possible. As fast as the milk becomes 
(Jfirkened by squeezings of the sponge, throw away and 



344 HINTS AND RECIPES . 

substitute a fresh supply. 'When no more ink can be sop- 
ped up, the milk remaining white after each immersion of 
the ^onge, wash out the wet place on the carpet with 
clear, warm water and coat with a paste of corn starch. 
Two or three days after brush out the corn starch, and 
not a trace of the ink will remain. 2. To remove ink 
stains from the hands, wet a sponge with spirits of harts- 
horn, or ammonia, and wash with the stains vigorously. 
Rinse at once in clear water, soap sets ink and other acid 
stains. 3. Ink stains may be removed from the fingers 
by rubbing with the moistened heads of ordinary matches. 

Iron Rust. — To remove iron rust stains, dip the spots 
in a solution of tartaric or citric acid: or wet the spots 
with lemonjuiee, and rub on hard, white soap, then expose 
to heat ; or, apply lemon juice and salt, and expose to the 
sun. 

Ivory Ornaments, to Clean. — Rub well with unsalted 
butter, and place in the sunshine. If the ivory is dis- 
colored, it may be whitened by rubbing with a paste com- 
posed, of burned pumicestone and water, and then placing 
it under glass in the sun. 

Japanned Ware, to 01ean.^Wet a sponge in warm 
water, and dampen the ware, then wipe off with a soft 
cloth. If a tray becomes- spotted, dip a woolen cloth into 
a little sweet oil and rub as hard as possible, and the spots, 
if efifaceable, will disappear. 

Jewelry, to Clean. — ^^Make a suds with tepid water and 
castile soap, to which add a few drops of ammonia. Wash 
the jewelry in this, rinse off with clear water, and lay in 
a box of dry sawdust to dry, or polish with chamois skin. 

Knives, Care of.— Knives should never be put away 
dirty. Stains are more easily removed when first made 
than when allowed to become «et in the steel. The hafts 
of knives should not be placed into hot water; they should 
be put in a jar with water sufficient to wash the blades 
without wetting the handles. Charcoal powder is excel- 



HINTS AND RECIPES 345 

lent for imparting a good polish to steel knives, as is also 
powdered rottenstone made into a smooth paste, and rub- 
bed on the knife, which must afterwards be polished with 
a clean cloth. Steel forks require the same treatment as 
knives. 

To keep laiives from rusting, scour bright, wipe 
thoroughly, dry by the fire, dust fine wood ashes fresh 
from the stove plentifully over the knives on both sides, 
leaving on what adheres to the blades, wrap in a piece of 
cloth and roll up in a paper, taking care to fold the ends 
of the paper so that the knives are all covered up. They 
may then be laid away for any length of time, and when 
wanted for use no rusty spots will be found on the blades. 

To take rust from knives, rub them well with kerosene, 
leaving them covered with it a day or so ; then rub them 
well with unslacked lime. 

Lamp Burners, to Clean. — Wash old lamp burners in 
ashes and water, and they will come out bright and clean. 
A burner is often condemned because the light is poor, 
when, having clogged up with sediment, the wick is at 
fault. To prevent the wick from smoking, soak in vine- 
gar, and then dry thoroughly. 

Marble, to Clean. — 1. Take 2 parts of washing soda, 1 
part of pumice stone, and 1 part of powdered chalk ; sift 
through fine sieve, and mix with water ; rub it well over 
the marble, and the stains will be removed; then wash 
with soap and water. 2. Make a paste by dissolving 
enough Spanish whiting in sufficient water to moisten it, 
a teaspoonful of washing soda having previously been 
dissolved in the water ; then with a flannel rag dipped in 
the solution rub the marble well, leave stand for a while, 
and repeat the process two or three times, if necessary ; 
wash off with soap and water and polish with soft rag. 
3. Badly stained marble may be cleaned by mixing up 
a quantity of the strongest soap lye with quick-lime to 
the consistency of milk, and laj^ing it on the marble for 



346 HINTS AND RECIPES 

twenty-four hours. Clean it afterwards with soap and 
water. 

Mildew, to Remove. — 1. Soak the. article in sour milk 
and salt ; then lay in the sun ; repeat until all the mildew 
is out. 2. Dissolve 2 ounces of chloride of lime in 1 quart 
of boiling water, then add three quarts of cold water. 
Strain this through cloth, lest any tiny lumps remain, and 
soak the mildewed spots in the liquid for five or six hours, 
and then thoroughly rinse in clean water. 3. Mildew 
may be removed from linen by wetting the spots, rubbing 
on chalk, and exposing to the air. Diluted hartshorn 
will take out mildew from woolen goods. 

Moths, to Get Rid of. — ^Fumigate closet with steam from 
burning vinegar, and scatter salt on shelves and floor. 
See also How to Exterminate Household Pests. 

Nickel Ornaments, to Polish. — 1. Nickel ornaments on 
stoves, etc., may be kept bright by using ammonia and 
whiting. Mix together in a bottle aiid apply with cloth. 
A very little polishing gives a fine luster. 2. ,Dip soft 
cloth in kerosene, then in whiting, and rub vigorously on 
the nickel. Dry and polish with a woolen cloth. 

Odors, to Destroy. — A small dish of fine charcoal kept 
upon a shelf of a dark closet or in the refrigerator and 
renewed every week, will absorb all odors and keep the 
place fresh and sweet. 

Oil Cloth, to Clean and Brighten. — 1. Wash with clear 
water in which a little borax has been dissolved; wipe 
with flannel cloth that has been dipped into milk and 
wrung as dry as possible. 2. Wash in clean lukewarm 
water, using scrubbing brush and then polish with woolen 
cloth wrung out of skim milk. 

Oil Paintings, to Clean.— Wash with soap and luke- 
warm water; wipe dry with a soft cloth, then rub vdth 
soft silk, handkerchief before the fire. Dull oil paintings 
may be brightened by wiping the surface over with a 
fr§§h-(?ut onion, or by touching' them with deutpxide <?£ 



HINTS AND RECIPES 347 

hydrogen diluted with six or eight times its weight of 
water. The parts treated should be afterwards washed, 
with clean sponge and water. 

Paint, to Glean. — 1. Provide a plate with some best 
quality of whiting, and have ready some clean warm 
water and piece of flannel, which dip into the water and 
squeeze nearly dry; then take as much whiting as will 
adhere to it, apply to the painted surface, when a little 
rubbing will instantly remove any dirt or grease. Then 
wash the part well with clean water, rubbing it dry with 
a soft chamois. Paint thus cleaned looks as well as when 
first laid on, without injury to the most delicate colors. 
2. Spirits of ammonia, used in sufficient quantity to 
soften the water, and ordinary hard soap will make white 
paint bright and clean with half the effort of any other 
method. Care should be taken not to use too much am- 
monia, or the paint will be injured. 3. To clean var- 
nished oil paint, pour boiling water on tea-grounds, and 
let stand ten minutes, then dip into it a flannel rag and 
wash the paint. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. 

Paint, Mixture for Cleaning. — Dissolve 2 oz. of washing 
soda in 1 quart of hot water. This makes a useful solu- 
tion for cleaning old painted work preparatory to repaint- 
ing. It should be used warm, and the paint afterwards 
washed with clean water. 

Paint, to Remove from Clothing. — Saturate the spots 
two or three times with equal parts of ammonia and tur- 
pentine, and then wash out in soapsuds. 

Paint, to Remove from Glass. — Dissolve some washing 
soda in very hot water and wash the windows with it, us- 
ing a soft flannel. 

Paint, to Remove from Wood. — Mix 1 pound of washing 
soda with 2 pounds of unslaked lime, and if the paint is 
very hard to remove add i/^ pound of potash. Mix in- 
gredients together, and dilute with water until the mixture 
becomes rather thicker than whitewash, and then rub iu 



348 HINTS AND RECIPES 

on the paint with a piece of wood folded up in a rag. 
Avoid touching the mixture with the hands. 

Paint, to Remove Odor of Fresh. — Place basins of water 
in the rooms freshly painted, and the odor will soon dis- 
appear. 

Putty, to Remove. — To remove old putty from window 
frames, pass a red hot poker slowly over it and the putty 
will come oflf easily. 

Papier-mache Articles, to Clean, — ^Wash with a sponge 
and clear cold water, dredge with fiour -while damp, and 
polish with a flannel. 

Ribbons, to Clean. — See Silks and Ribbons. 

Rust, to Remove from Polished Iron. — The best method 
of removing rust from a polished stove or grate is to 
scrape down to a fine powder some scouring soap, put it 
into a little oil, and rub the spots well with a piece of flan- 
nel dipped in the mixture ; then apply some whiting and 
rub in well. Repeat this process daily until all trace of 
the rust has disappeared. 

Silks and Ribbons, to Clean. — 1. Mix thoroughly to- 
gether 1 pint of gin, i^ poimd of strained honey, % pound 
of soft soap, and % of a pint of water. Lay each breadth 
of silk upon clean table, and scrub with the mixture on 
soiled side. Have ready three vessels of cold water ; take 
each piece of silk at two corners, and dip up and down 
in, each vessel, but do not wring; take care that each 
breadth has one vessel of quite clean water for the last 
dip. Hang it up dripping for a minute or two, then dab 
in a cloth, and iron quickly with a very hot iron. 2. To 
clean white satin and flowered silks, pass them through a 
solution of fine hard soap, at a hand heat, drawing them 
through the hand. Rinse in lukewarm water, dry, and 
finish by pinning out. Brush the flossy or bright side with 
a clean clothes brush the way of the nap. Finish them 
by dipping a sponge into size, made by boiling isinglass 
in water, and rub the wrong side. Rinse out a second 



HINTS AND RECIPES 349 

time, and brush : dry near a fire or in a warm room. Silk 
may be treated in the same way, but not brushed. 

Silver, Care of. — Cleansing silver is not an easy task; 
the use of kerosene will greatly facilitate the operation. 
Wet a flannel cloth in the oil, dip it in dry whiting, and 
thoroughly rub the silverware; place in a dish of scald- 
ing soap suds, wipe with a soft flannel, and polish with 
chamois skin. To extract stains from silver, take sal- 
ammoniac, 1 part; vinegar, 10 parts; mix, and use with 
piece of flannel, then wash in clean water. To preserve 
silver from tarnishing, it should be wrapped in tissue 
paper and placed in a canton flannel bag. Silver becomes 
tarnished when exposed to foul air or coal-gas. 

Silver Plate, to Clean. — ^Whiting, dampened with liquid 
ammonia, is commonly used for cleaning silver plate, but 
as the whiting is apt to remove a minute portion of the 
metal along with the dirt or tarnish, its use is not recom- 
mended. The best method to clean silver plate is to wash 
well in strong, warm soap suds, rinse and wipe dry with 
soft cloth ; then mix as much ammonia powder as will be 
required into a thick paste, with cold water; spread this 
over the silver with a soft cloth, and leave it for a short 
time to dry. When perfectly dry, brush off with clean 
soft cloth, and polish with piece of chamois skin. 

Stains to Remove. — See Coffee Stains, Fruit Stains, Ink 
Stains, Iron Rust, Tea Stains, Wine Stains. 

Starch, to Prepare. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of starch 
dissolved in as much water ; add a gill of cold water ; then 
add 1 pint of boiling water, and boil half an hour, add- 
ing a small piece of spermaceti, sugar, or salt ; strain, and 
thin with water. 

Starch Polish, to Make. — Melt 1 ounce of spermaceti 
and one ounce of white wax together, and run into a thin 
cake on a plate. A piece the size of a quarter dollar added 
to a quart of prepared starch gives a beautiful lustre to 
the clothes and prevents the iron from sticking. 



350 HINTS AND RECIPES 

Steel, to Clean.: — Take 1 ounce of camphor and 1 poimd 
of hog's lard, and mix with as much black lead as will 
give the mixture an iron color; rub it vigorously on the 
steel, and leave for twenty-four hours, then rub off with 
linen cloth. 

Table Linen. — Tablecloths, whether of coarse or fine 
texture, and whether bleached or unbleached, should be 
of bona fide linen. When cotton threads are mixed with 
flax threads the fabric is never satisfactory for any ar- 
ticle of table-napery, more particularly for tablecloths, 
which show a large surface, and should look smooth and 
glossy. The table napkins should match the tablecloth in 
pattern. 

The most popular finish for table linen is simply a 
hemmed or hem-stitched edge, but drawn work is always 
popular for one's best linen. Borders finely drawn and 
worked so as to appear like fancy braid inserted decorate 
the handsome cloths. 

Doilies and center pieces always are hemstitched when 
trimmed with drawn work. The doilies are used in sizes 
from the small squares to be placed under the finger bowl 
to the center-pieces, measuring 10 by 12 inches. 

For nursery and kitchen service the half-bleached table- 
cloths are the "most serviceable ; these become white when 
they have been in use a short time. They are particularly 
strong, and as the fabric is not woven very closely, the 
stains and marks usually made are readily worked out. 

Tar, to Remove. — To remove tar from clothes, rub but- 
ter or lard over the tar spots; then wash with soap and 
water. Apply oil, of turpentine and let remain for one 
hour, then wash again, and the tar will be removed. 

To remove tar froin the hands rub with the outside of 
fresh orange or lemon peel, and wipe dry immediately. 

Tea Stains, to Remove. — 1. Soak in milk as soon as 
possible, and wash out in soap suds. 2. Pour boiling 



HINTS AND RECIPES 351 

water through the stains before putting the article in the 
wash. 

Tinwaxe, to Clean. — Mix a little whiting with a few 
drops of sweet oil, rub the tinware well v,ith it, using a 
soft flannel for the purpose ; then dust over some dry whit- 
ing, and rub bright with dry soft leather. ' 

Wall Paper, to Clean. — Take off the dust with a soft 
cloth. With a little flour and water make a lump of stiff 
dough and rub the wall gently downward, taking the 
length of the arm at each stroke, and in this way go round 
the whole room. As the dough becomes dirty, cut the 
soiled parts off. In the second round commence the 
stroke a little above where the last one ended, being care- 
ful not to cross the paper or to go up again. Ordinary 
papers cleaned in this way will look fresh and bright, 
and almost as good as new. One poimd of dough is suffi- 
cient to clean a sitting room of ordinary size. 

Walls, to Repair Cracks in. — Equal parts of plaster of 
Paris and white sand, such as is used for scouring pur- 
poses, mixed with water to a paste, applied immediately 
and smoothed with a knife or flat piece of wood, will 
make the broken place as good as new. The mixture 
hardens quickly, so it is best to prepare but a small quan- 
tity at a time. 

Whitewash, to Make. — Slack y^, bushel of lime with 
boiling water, covering it to keep in the steam. Strain 
through a fine sieve, add a peck of salt dissolved in warm 
water, 3 pounds of rice flour made into a thin paste, % 
pound of Spanish whiting, .1 pound of clean glue dissolved 
in warm water. Add 5 gallons of warm water to the mix- 
ture, and after stirring well let stand a few days, being 
covered to keep out dust. It should be put on hot. A 
pint will cover a square yard. Any coloring substance 
may be used excepting green as the lime destroys the 
color and the green makes the wash pell off. 



352 HINTS AND RECIPES 

Windows, to Clean. — ^Pirst thoroughly dust the win- 
dows inside and out with a small whisk broom. Then 
wipe off with a dry cloth^ rubbing well. Wash the sills 
and woodwork with a cloth dipped in warm water, and 
bring a fresh supply before beginning" to wash the glass. 
Soap should not be used, as it makes the glass cloudy. A 
little borax, pearline, or household ammonia may be added 
to the warm water. An excellent substitute for cloths in 
window-washing is old newspaper or a chamois skin. The 
newspaper or chamois skin should be dipped in water, 
wrung out, and passed rapidly over the glass. Both 
water and chamo-is skin should be clean, and the water 
should be renewed as it becomes clouded. A soft cloth 
moistened in alcohol and rubbed on the glass adds luster 
to it. 

Wine Stains, to Remove. — Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of water 
and 1 of salts of lemon and let the stained part lie in this 
for several minutes; then rinse in cold water, or wet the 
stain with hartshorn. , 

Woodwork, to Clean.— Steep tea-grounds in a tin pail 
or pan for half an hour. Strain through a sieve, and use 
the tea to wash all varnished paint. Unvarnished paint 
should not be washed with it. Fuller's earth i^ excellent 
for cleaning unpainted woodwork, forming a good substi- 
tute for soap. For cleaning white varnished paint, whit- 
ing is unequalled. Take a small quantity on a damp flan- 
nel and rub lightly over the surface. 

Woodenware, Care of. — Breadboards and other kitchen 
utensils made of wood, may be kept white and stainless 
by scrubbing with soap and lukewarm water, to which 
may be added a little common soda or household am- 
monia. 

Wooden utensils should always be washed directly 
after they have been used, because if grease and dirt are 
once allowed to soak into the substance "of the wood it 
may be impossible to entirely remove them. After being 



HINTS AND RECIPES 353 

washed the utensils should be well rinsed with cold water, 
and allowed to dry quickly.- 

Wrinkles, to Remove. — ^When wrinkles once make tlieir 
appearance in one's face, it is very difficult to get rid of 
them, especially those that radiate from the outer corners 
of the eyes, and commonly called "crow's-feet." 

Every influence which distends the skin for any length 
of time leads to the formation of wrinkles. Impure blood 
is the most common cause, which, by producing bloating, 
distends the skin, and when the bloating subsides the 
wrinkles appear. 

It is very important, therefore, in order to avoid wrin- 
kles, to keep the blood pure. This may be greatly aided 
by taking regular exercise in the open air and keeping 
regular hours. 

The crow 's-f eet about the eyes may be kept away or re- 
moved by massaging for about five minutes on retiring 
with any good cold cream. The massaging or rubbing 
should be done with the tips of the fingers, in a rotary 
manner, outward and away from the corner of the eyes, 
care being taken not to touch the soft, flabby skin beneath 
the eyes, as this tends to produce wrinkles. 

Cold Cream. 

Spermaceti 10 drachms 

White "Wax 10 drachms 

Prepared Lard 8 ounces 

Subcarb. Potash 15 grains 

Rosewater 4 ounces 

Spirits of Wine 2 ounces 

Attar of Roses , 10 drops 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 

Do not use the cooker until you have read and thoroughly un- 
derstand the directions and explanations as to the length of time 
the food prepared is supposed to boil both over the fire and in the 
cooker. 

YOU MUST have the contents of the kettle or anything you de- 
sire to cook at the boiling point, or allow to. remain over the fire 
according to the instructions. 

In cooking or preparing any food you wish to cook in the Firelesa 
Cooker, always • consult the recipes and directions in this book, 
which you will find under their proper headings. 

The cover must be placed on the kettle of the cooker while the 
food is boiling to- obtain the best results, and be sure that the 
cover is securely down when kettle is placed in the cooker, which 
MUST be instantly after removing from the fire. 

TO OBTAIN best results with a small portion of any food, 
which does not fill the kettle of the cooker, put the food in a 
smaller vessel, and place inside of the larger kettle, after which 
pour boiling water into kettle around the smaller vessel; in this 
same manner, also, you can cook several kinds of food at the same 
time by using smaller vessels and placing them inside of the larger 
one, in which event the larger vessel should always contain boiling 
water. 

SOUPS 

CHICKEN SOUP— Place chicken in kettle and add six cups of 
cold water, a few celery leaves and two teaspoonfuls salt. Boil 
slowly fosr 30 minutes, place in Cooker for 8 hours. Allow chicken 
to almost cool in liquor; it may be used for salad or croquettes. 
Allow soup to cool and remove fat before serving. 

BAKED BEAN SOUP— Use 2 cups baked beans, 4 cups water, 
4 teaspoonfuls tomato juice, 1 slice onion, 1 stalk celery, 3 table- 
spoonfuls flour, seasoning. Add a quart of water to cold beans, 
also slice of onions, stalk of celery chopped fine and a, fourth of 
a cup of tomato juice. Mix well and boil for 5 minutes, place in 
Cooker for 2 hours. Rub through sieve and add flour mixed with a 
little water, add seasoning, and heat to boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly. 

354 



THE FIEELESS COOKER 355 

LENTIL SOUP— Take 1 cup lentils, 1 onion, 1 stalk celery, 1 
small carot, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 4 cups soup stock, 4 tablespoonfuls 
flour, 2 taolespoonfuls of water, 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Soak lentils 
over night, drain and add water to cover, add onion, celery and 
carrot which have been cut into small pieces. Boil 15 minutes and 
place in the Cooker 8 hours. Rub through sieve and add salt, 
pepper, butter and soup stock, make smooth paste of flour and water 
and add to soup. Heat, stirring until it thickens. 

CREAM LENTIL SOUP— Cream lentil soup is made like the 
above except that 1 quart of milk is added instead of soup stock, 
and the amount of butter may be increased. 

BEAN SOUP — Take 1 cup navy beans, 2 quarts water, 1 small 
onion, 2 stalks celery, 1 tablespoonful salt, % teaspoonful pepper, 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. Soak beans over night, drain and add 
2 quarts of cold water. Add chopped celery and onion, also salt 
and pepper. Boil slowly for 15 minutes. Place in Cooker for 8 
hours. Rub through sieve, add butter and serve. 

MACARONI SQUP — Use 1 cupful macaroni, 6 cupfuls soup stock, 
seasoning. Break macaroni into small pieces and drop into boiling 
soup stock, allow to simmer 10 minutes, and place in Cooker 2 
hours. Season to taste. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP— Take 1 cupful split peas, 1 quart water, Vz 
slice, onion, % teaspoonful celery salt, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 3 table- 
spoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 cups milk. Soak peas 
over night, drain and add 1 quart of cold water. Add salt, onion 
and celery salt. Boil for 10 minutes and place in Cooker 8 hours. 
Kub through sieve, add butter and flour rubbed together, stirring 
until it thickens. Add milk and serve. 

DRIED GREEN PEA SOUP— Made by the same method as 
Split Pea Soup. 

MUTTON AND VEAL SOUP— Use 1 lb. mutton, 1 lb. veal, 2 
quarts water, 1 small onion, 1 small carrot, stalk celery, 1 table- 
spoonful salt, Yi teaspoonful pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls rice. Remove 
fat from mutton and cut into inch pieces. Cut veal into inch 
cubes and brown in frying pan with a little butter or fat. Place 
meat in kettle and cover with cold water, allow to stand 1 hour 
and add vegetables cut into small pieces. Heat to boiling point, add 
rice and seasoning, boil 15 minutes and place in Cooker all day. 
Strain and serve hot. The meat and vegetables may be used with 
potatoes for hash. 

PEARL SOUP — Take V^ cupful pearl tapioca, 2 cupfuls cold 
water, 1 quart soup stock, seasoning. Soak tapioca in cold water 
1 hour. Drain. Add it to 'boiling hot soup stock. Simmer slowly 
5 minutes, place in Cooker 2 hours, season and serve hot. 

BROWNED SOUP STOCK— Use 4 lbs. soup meat and bone, 1 
onion, 1 tablespoonful salt, '4 teaspoonful pepper, 2'/2 quarts water, 
1 carrot, Va bay leaf, 1 turnip, 1 stalk celery. Wipe meat and cut 



356 THE FIRELBSS COOKER 

into inch cubes. Brown about one-third of meat in frying pan with 
a little of the suet and onion. Place hones and remaining meat in 
kettle, add 3 quarts of cold water and allow to stand 1 hour. 
Add 2 cups of water to meat in frying pan; allow to boil a minute 
and add to kettle. Add seasoning and diced carrot and turnips. 
Bring to boiling point and allow to simmer 10 minutes, place in 
Cooker 8 hours, cool and skim fat fron;i top before using. 

WHITE SOUP STOCK— Take 4 lbs. knuckle of veal, 1 onion, 
small bay leaf, 3 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 stalk celery, 6 pepper corns, 
8 cups water. Wipe meat and cut in small pieces. Have bone 
cracked and place meat and bone in kettle, add seasoning and 
onion and celery cut into small pieces. Add water and allow to 
stand an hour. Boil slowly 30 minutes and place in Cooker 8 hours. 
Pour soup through several thicknesses of cheese cloth and it will 
be very clear. 

TOMATO SOUP — Take 1 can tomatoes, 2 cloves, 1 teaspoonful 
salt, 1 small onion, 3 cupfuls water, small bay leaf, sprinkle cayenne, 
1 carrpt, 1 quart soup stock. Add water to tomatoes. Slice carrot 
and slice onion; add these and the seasoning. Soil 8 minutes and 
place in Cooker for 3 hours. Strain, add soup stock, reheat and 
serve. 

VEGETABLE SOUP— Use 2 cupfuls brown soup stock, 3 cupfuls 
tomato juice, 1 cupful carrots, 1 cupful turnips, % cupful celery, 
1 cupful, peas, 1 onion, 1 cupful diced potatoes, seasoning. To the 
soup stock and tomato juice add the carrots, turnips, onions and 
celery which has been ciit into sinall slices. BoM slowly for 10 
minutes and then place in Cooker for 4 hours. Eemove from Cooker 
and add diced potatoes, peas and seasoning. Boil for 5 minutes and 
return to Cooker for an hour longer. 

LIMA BEAN PUREE — Take 1 cupful beans, 3 cupfuls water, 
slice onion, stalk celery, 1 teaspoonful salt, sprinkle pepper, 3 
tablespoonfuls butter. Soak beans over night. Drain, add fresh 
water and a pinch of soda. Boil 15 minutes, add onion and celery 
cut into small pieces and place in Cooker over night. Rub through 
sieve, add butter, salt and pepper and serve hot. 

DRIED PEA PUREE — Clean peas, cover with water and allow to 
soak over night. Drain and cover with fresh water. Add a small 
onion and bay leaf and allow to boil 10 minutes. Place in Cooker 
for 6 hours, rub peas through sieve, add salt, pepper and butter 
to taste. Serve hot. 

LENTIL PUREE— Soak lentils in cold water over night. Drain 
and cover with cold water, add a small onion and carrot, boil slowly 
15 minutes and plaice in Cooker for 8 hours. Rub through a fine 
sieve and add salt, pepper and butter to taste; if the butter is 
browned slightly it will improve the flavor of the puree. When 
finished the puree should be a little thinner than mashed potatoes. 
If too thin thicken by adding a little flour and water, made into 
a thin paste. Boil for a few minutes, stirring constantly so that 
it will not lump. 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 357 

VEGETABLE STEW— Use 1 lb. chopped meat, 2 cupfuls water, 
1 cupful turnips, 2 cupfuls carrots, 1 onion, 1 cupful tomato juice, 
1 cupful peas, Vs cupful celery, 2 cupfuls diced potatoes, seasoning. 
Brown the meat and onion in beef suet or butter, add water and 
tomato Juice, add turnips, carrots and celery diced, allow to boil 
for 5 minutes, place in Cooker for 4 hours, remove and add season- 
ing, peas and diced potatoes, boil for 5 minutes and place in Cooker 
for 1 hour. Thicken if desired before serving. 



FISH 



BOILED WHITE FISH— Clean and bone fish and sew in cheese 
cloth bag, leaving room for fish to swell. Place fish in kettle with 
back down, cover with boiling salted water (acidulated) ; allowing 
one tablespoonful of salt and vinegar or lemon juice to each quart 
of water. Boil for 5 minutes. Place in Cooker for 1 hour. If 
fish weighs over 2 pounds boil for 10 minutes. The skin may be 
easily peeled from a boiled fish. Serve with tomato sauce. 

COD, HADDOCK, BASS, BLUE FISH, HALIBUT, SALMON, 
ETC., ETC. — Can all be cooked as above. 

BOILED EGGS— Pour into the kettle one cupful of boiling water 
for each egg to be cooked. Lower eggs gradually into the water. 
Cover kettle and allow water to boil for half a minute. Place in 
kettle in Cooker for 30 minutes. Pour cold water over eges before 
peeling. 

SPAGHETTI AND TOMATO SAUCE— Add one tablespoonful of 
salt to 2 quarts of boiling water, and hold one-third of a pound 
of spaghetti so you may place one end into the bojling water; as it 
softens lower it into the water. In this way spaghetti may be 
cooked without breaking. Boil for 5 minutes and place in Cooker 
for 1 hour and a half. Drain off" water in which spaghetti was 
cooked and pour cold water over it, to keep it from sticking to- 
gether. Add tomato sauce and bring to boiling point, place in 
Cooker one-half hour before serving. 

MEATS 

In cooking meat, be sure to allow it to boil on the stove until 
the center of the meat is heated to the boiling point. This usually 
takes a half hour or even longer, dependent upon local conditions. 
You will have to use your judgment. 

BEEF STEW — Use 2 lbs. round steak, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 3 cupfuls 
water, 1 stick celery, 1 turnip, 1 teaspopnful salt, sprinkle pepper. 
Place meat in kettle and cut into inch pieces; add water and season- 
ing. Slice carrot, turnip and celery into one-half inch cubes and 
add to mixture. Boil for 10 minutes and place in Cooker for 6 
hours. Thicken with four talilpspoonfuls of flour and one-half cup 
water well mixed. Serve on toast. 



358 THE FIRELESS COOKER 

BROWNED BEEF STEW— Use 2 lbs. round steak, 1 onion, 3 cup- 
fuls water, seasoning. Cut meat into small pieces. Slice onion and 
brown in some of the suet or two tablespoonfuls of butter, add 
meat and cook until well browned. Add the 3 cupfuls of water 
and seasoning, allow to toil slowly for 10 minutes. Place kettle in 
Cooker for 8 hours, thicken with 4 tablespoonfuls of browned flour 
and 6 tablespoonfuls of water made into a thin paste. 

BEEF POT ROAST— Sprinkle roast with flour. Heat a little 
suet in frying pan and add a slice or two of onion. Place roast 
in frying pan and brown on all sides, being careful not td pierce 
fleshy part of roast. Place meat in kettle and add 3 cupfuls of 
water to frying pan, simmer a few minutes and pour water over 
roast. Add ] teaspoonful of salt and enough more boiling waiter 
to almost cover roast, allow to boil 30 minutes and place in 
• Cooker for 6 to 8 hours, depending upon size of roast. The liquor 
may be thickened for gravy. 

CORNED BEEF— If beef is very salty soak for several hours in 
cold water. If not wash in cold water and place in kettle, cover _ 
with cold water and boil for 30 minutes, place in Codker all day 
or over night. If meat is to be served cdld allow it to ^cdol in" 
the liquor. 

CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE^Cook Corn Beef as for above 
recipe. Three hours before the cabbage is to be served, remove out- 
side leaijps and cut into quarters. Place cabbage in kettle with 
meat and boil for 10 minutes. Place in Cooker 2 hours and a half, 
drain liquor and serve meat and cabbage. 

BOILED HAM— Boil for 30 to 45 minutes, depending on size of 
ham; an 8-pound ham should boil 45 minutes. Place in Cooker 
and allow td remain all night. If ham is to be served cold alldw 
it td cddl in the liquor. A small onion may be added to the water 
in which it is cooked. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN— Cut chicken into small pieces. Heat 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter in frying pan, add slice of onion; roll 
chicken in flour and then brown in butter. Place chicken" in kettle 
and pdur twd cupfuls of water into frying pan; boil a few minutes 
and pour water over chicken; add salt and boil for 10 minutes. 
Place kettle in Cooker 6 hours if chicken is young and 8 if it is a 
hen. Thicken the gravy with browned flour and sefve on toast. 
Chopped parsley may be added befdre serving. 

CHICKEN CURRY— Same as Fricassee df Chicken except Vg tea- 
spoonful of curry pdwder is added td the thickening. 

CHICKEN STEW— Cut chicken into pieces; place chicken in 
kettle and cover with water; allow to boil slowly for 30 minutes; 
season with pepper and salt, and place in Codker fdr 6 hdtirB. Re- 
move from Cooker and add thickening. Serve on toast or the 
stew may again be brought to the boiling pdint and dumplings 
added and the kettle replaced in the Cddker fdr 30 minutes. 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 359 

BOILED DINNER — Cook 4 pounds of corned beef as directed. 
Remove meat from liquor and add 2 cupfuls of sliced carrots; boil 
for 5 minutes and place in Cooker 2 hours. Remove kettle and 
add 4 turnips sliced and cabbage cut into quarters. Boil 20 minutes 
and place in Cooker for 3 hours. The meat may be placed in the 
kettle and the whole boiled until meat is reheated. Boiled beets 
may be served with this dish. 

IRISH STEW— Use 2 lbs. mutton, % cupful carrots, 1 onion, 
2 cupfuls sliced potatoes. One-half cupful turnips cut into one- 
half inch cubes, also onion sliced thin. Remove fat and skin from 
meat, boil slowly for 15 minutes and place in Cooker for 4 hours. 
Remove and bring to boiling point; add potatoes and seasoning. 
Boil for 5 minutes and place in Cooker for 1 hour; add thickening 
and serv«. ^ 

BOILED MUTTON— Brown meat . in frying pan and place in 
kettle; cover with boiling water; add a, small onion cut in pieces. 
Boil for 30 minutes and place in Cooker for 8 hours. If meat is to 
be served cold, add one teaspoonful of salt and allow meat to cool 
in liquor. 

FRICASSEE OF LAMB— Cut two pounds of lean lamb into small 
cubes, dredge with flour and brown in a frying pan using a little 
suet to keep it from burning. Place in kettle and add just water 
enoiigh to cover. Boil for 10 minutes and place in Cooker for 6 
hours. Thicken with one-half cupful of browned flour mixed with 
cold water, season to taste and serve on toast. 

CALVES' TONGUES — Calves' tongues usually come fresh and re- 
quire no soaking. Wash in cold water; place in kettle and cover 
with boiling water. Add slice of onion and carrot cut into pieces. 
Boil 15 minutes and place in Cooker over night. Remove skin and 
add salt and pepper to liquor in which tongues were cooked. Allow 
tongues to cool in this liquor. 

BOILED TONGUE— If tongue is very salty, soak for one hour 
in cold water. Place tongue in kettle and cover with cold water; 
heat to boiling point and boil for 15 minutes; place in Cooker all 
night. Skin while still warm and allow to cool in the liquor, if it 
is to be served cold. A slice of onion cooked with the tongue will 
improve the flavor a little and paprika may also be added. 

VEAL POT ROAST — ^Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter .or suet in 
frying pan and brown the roast of veal by turning meat on all 
sides. Place roast in kettle and pour two cupfuls of water into 
frjdng pan, boil for a minute and pour liquid over veal, add enough 
more boiling water to almost cover meat, add salt and pepper, 
boil 20 minutes to half hour. Place in Cooker 6 to 8 hours. Liquor 
in which meat was cooked may be thickened ior gravy or saved 
for soup. 

CURRY OF VEAL— Use 2 lbs. veal, 2 tablespoonfuls suet or 
butter, 1 onion, % teaspoonful curry powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
y^ teaspoonful pepper, 4 tablespoonfuls flour, 2 tablespoonfuls waiter. 



360 THE PIRELESS COOKER 

Cut veal into small cubes and brown in frying pan with two table- 
spoonfuls of suet or butter and an onion cut into slices. Add curry 
powder, salt and pepper and boiling water to cover. Boil for 10 
minutes and place in Cooker for 5 hours. Thicken with flour and 
water made into a thin paste. Serve on toast. 

VEAL AND RICE— Take 1 lb. veal, 2 cupfuls water, 2 table- 
spoonfuls butter, small onion, 3 cupfuls boiled rice. Cut veal into 
small cubes and brown in frying pan with butter and onion, add 
two cupfuls of boiling water and seasoning, cook for a few moments, 
then place mixture in kettle and boil slowly for 15 minutes, place 
in Cooker 3 hours. Thicken' with flour and water and serve over 
hot cooked rice. 

VEGETABLES 

Prepare same just as you would prepare them for cooking in the 
regular manner, or in other words, just according to the directions 
given in any good Cook Book. 

BEAN SALAD — Clean navy beans and soak in cold water over 
iright, drain off water and add enough fresh water to cover the 
beans. Add a half pound of bacon for each quart of beans (measured 
before soaking) add salt and pepper to suit taste. Boil until beans 
begin to peel slightly when you blow on them. Place kettle in 
Cooker for 8 to 10 hours. After taken from Cooker, scatter sliced 
onions on top and pour vinegar over the whole. 

WAX BEANS — Wash beans and break into inch pieces, cover 
with cold water and allow to boil ten minutes, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter. Place in Cooker 6 hours, season with salt and 
pepper or serve with cream sauce. 

DRIED LIMA BEANS — Soak beans in cold water over night, 
drain off water in which beans were soaked. Cover beans with 
fresh water, add u small piece of salt pork or a piece of butter. 
Allow beans to simmer for 15 minutes, place in Cooker for 6 hours, 
season and serve. A pinch of soda added while beans are cooking 
will make them more tender. 

LIMA BEANS — Same as above except omit soaking over night. 

STRING BEANS— Wash beans and pull off strings, break them 
into inch pieces. Cover with boiling water and add a small piece 
of salt pork, boil slowly for 10 minutes, place in Cooker for 6 
hours, remove, season with salt, pepper and a little butter in case 
salt pork is not used. Add sliced onions. 

ASPARAGUS — Wash asparagus and tie into small bunches. 
Stand these bunches up in a kettle of boiling water, allowing the 
tips to be above the water, boiling for 5 minutes and place in Cooker 
for 1 hour. Serve asparagus with salt, pepper and melted butter 
or with cream sauce: Asparagus may be cut into one inch pieces 
instead of leaving whole 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 361 

SPINACH — ^Wash and pick over greens carefully, add one cupful 
boiling water for each quart of greens. Boil slowly for 10 minutes, 
place kfettle in Cooker for 2 hours. Drain off water, add salt, 
pepper and butter; reheat and serve. Beet greens and dandelion 
greens can be cooked the same. 

BOILED BEETS — ^Wash beets, leaving on root and about one- 
half inch of leaves, to keep beets from losing color. Cover beets 
with boiling water and allow to boil 15 minutes. Place kettle in 
Cooker from 6 to 8 hours, depending upon the age of the beets. 
Remove from Cooker and put beets into cold water for a minute. 
Skin and cut into small pieces. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter. 

PICKLED BEETS— Cook beets as for boiled beets, peel and cut 
beets into slices, place in glass jar, and cover with following mix- 
ture: Add 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful salt, Va table- 
spoonful pepper, 10 cloves, 1 stick cinnamon and 10 pepper-corns to 
boiling water, 2 cupfuls; and 3 cupfuls vinegar and heat to almost 
boiling point. Pour over beets and allow to stand 24 hours before 
serving. 

CARROTS AND PEAS— Wash and scrape carrots, cut into slices, 
place in kettle and cover with boiling water, allow to boil 5 minutes, 
«dd salt and place in Cooker 6 hours. When done drain, add one 
can of peas and allow to simmer for 10 minutes, add salt, pepper 
and butter and serve at once. Cooked diced turnips may be' added 
if wished. 

'BOILED CABBAGE — Remove outside leaves, cut into quarters 
and cut out tough center. Place in kettle and cover with boiling 
salted water, allow to boil for 10 minutes without cover. Cover 
and place in Cooker for 2 hours. Season with butter, salt and 
pepper and little vinegar. 

CAULIFLOWER — Cook as for cabbage but serve with cream 
sauce. 

BOILED GREEN CORN — Remove husks and threads, place corn 
in kettle, cover with boiling water and boil for 3 minutes, place in 
Cooker for 45 minutes to 1 hour, depending upon the age of corn. 
Drain and serve with salt and pepper. 

PEAS DRIED — Clean peas, cover with water and allow to soak 
over night. Drain and cover with fresh water. Boil for 10 minutes 
and place in Cooker for 6 hours. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter and serve hot. 

PEAS — Same as Dried Peas except omit soaking over night. 

LENTILS — Soak one cupful of lentils in cold water over night. 
Drain and add fresh water to cover, add a slice of onion and boil 
for 10 minutes. Place in Cooker for 8 hours. Drain and add one 
cup of well seasoned white sauce. The water which was. drained 
off may be saved for soup. 



362 THE FIRELESS COOKER 

CREAMED ONIONS — Remove skins from onions and if large 
cut in half. Cover with salted water and boil for 5 minutes; place 
in Cooker for 3 hours if onions are young and small; leave 4 hours 
if onions are large or old. Serve with milk, butter, salt and pepper. 

SPANISH ONIONS — Quarter the onions and cook as for Creamed 
Onions. 

BOILED POTATOES— Pare- potatoes, cut into pieces, coyer with 
boiling salted water and boil for 5 minutes. Place in Cooker for 
1 hour to 1% hours, depending on the size of pieces and amount 
in kettle, drain, mash, add salt, pepper, milk and. butter. 

PARSNIPS — Wash and scrape parsnips, cut in slices about V4 
inch thick, cover with boiling salted water and allow to boil 5 
minutes. Place in Cooker 3 hours. Drain, season with salt, pepper 
and butter or roll in flour and brown in butter in frying pan. 

CREAMED POTATOES— Wash and pare potatoes,' cut into cubes, 
place in kettle and cover with boiling salted water. Boil 3 minutes 
and place in Cooker 45 minutes. Drain and cover with white sauce. 
Large amounts of potatoes may be cooked in the Cooker in this 
way without breaking. 

POTATOES FOR SALAD— Select potatoes of uniform size, wash 
and remove black places. Place potatoes in kettle and cover with 
boiling water, add one tablespoonful of salt for each quart of water. 
Boil 5 minutes if potatoes are small, 10 if large. Place in Cooker 
3 hours. Drain and allow to cool uncovered. Put S large slices 
of bacon into a pan and fry till crisp. Then cut into small pieces, 
add one cupful of vinegar and half a cupful of sliced onions. 
Pour over potatoes and mix. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES— Cover with boiling water salted 
and allow to boil 5 minutes if potatoes are small and 10 if potatoes 
are large. Place in Cooker for 1 hour, drain and allow to dry. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS— Soak in cold water one-half hour. Re- 
move wilted leaves and cover with boiling salted water, allow to 
boil 5 minutes and place in Cooker 3 hours. Drain and serve with 
white sauce. 

BOILED TOMATOES— Wash tomatoes and pour boiling wafer 
over them, allowing them to remain in it about one-half minute 
or less if they are very ripe. Cover with cold water and peel. Cut 
into pieces and add salt, pepper, to taste, butter and a small amount 
of sugar and half cupful bread crumbs may' be added. Boil for 5 
minutes, place in Cooker and allow to remain 1 hour. . 

SQUASH — Cut squash into pieces, remove seeds and pare. Cut 
into small pieces and add water to almost cover. Boil 10 minutes 
and place -in Cooker 4 hours, drain, mash and season with butter, 
salt and pepper. If the butter is browned slightly it will improve 
the flavor, 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 36S 

TURNIPS, WHITE — Wash and pare turnips, cut into slices and 
cover with boiling water. Cook for 10 minutes and place in Cooker 
for 6 hours. Drain and mash, season with salt, pepper and butter 
and serve hot. Turnips may be cut "into dice instead of slices and 
served with white sauce. 

TURNIPS, YELLOW— Prepare yellow turnips or rutabagas, as 
they are sometimes called, in the same manner as white turnips, 
but leave in the Cooker from 1 to 2 hours longer, as they require 
more cooking. 

PUMPKIN FOR PIES — Ciit pumpkin into pieces, pare and remove 
seeds. Place pumpkin in kettle and add just enough water to cook 
without burning. Boil until pumpkin is heated through. Place in 
Cooker over night. Drain and rub through sieve. 

TOMATO SAUCE— Use 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, sprinkle cayenne pepper, IVj cupfuls tomato 
juice. Melt butter until it bubbles, add flour and seasoning and stir 
until smooth, add tomato juice, stirring constantly until it thickens. 

DRIED FRUITS— For cooking any kind of dried fruit such as 
apples, pears, peaches, figs, prunes, apricots, nectarines, etc., use the 
following recipe: Wash in cold water, soak over night in fresh 
water and cook in water in which they were soaked. Boil slowly 
for 10 minutes, adding sugar, lemon to taste. Place in Cooker 
5 hours. 

FRUITS 

A NICE WAY TO PREPARE APPLES— Make a nice syrup of 
sugar and water with .some small pieces of ginger root or orange 
peel added. When this syrup has boiled three minutes, drop into it 
some quartered apples and put into Cooker for 3 hours. Cream 
when eating improves them. 

APPLE SAUCE — ^Pare and core six medium sized tart apples, 
cut into slices and cover with boiling water. Boil 5 minutes and 
place in Cooker for 1 hour. Remove and rub apples through sieve, 
add cup of sugar for each cup of apple and a little nutmeg or 
lemon juice. Serve cold. 

QUINCES AND APPLES— Pare and core quinces, cut into 
quarters, add water to cover and allow to boil slowly for ten 
minutes. Place in Cooker for four hours. Remove from Cooker and 
add equal amounts of apples, which have been pared, cored and 
quartered, add more water if necessary and boil for five minutes. 
Place in Cooker for two hours, add sugar to taste and boil until 
sugar forms a syrup. Serve cold. 

Sweet apples are usually best and lemon rind may be added with 
apples. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE — Wash berries and almost cover with boil- 
ing water, boil five minutes and add a half cup of sugar for each cup 
of berries. Boil until sugar forms a syrup. Place in Cooker for two 
hours. 



364 THE PiRELESa COOKER 

PINEAPPLE — Remove the eyes and peel," cut into slices and t» 
move core. Place in kettle and cover with boiling water, allow to 
boil for 10 minutes and place in Cooker for six hours. Remove from 
Cooker and drain off water in which fruit was cooked. Add a cup 
of sugar to each cup of juice, boil until sugar dissolves, per.;- over 
pineapple and cook slowly for ten minutes. Pineapple may be 
canned or cooked and served as sauce. * 

DESSERTS 

IRISH MOSS — Soak a scant cup of Irish moss in soda water til! 
it swells, then squeeze untij free from water. Put into a bucket 
containing 3 quarts "of milk. Set this bucket containing the above 
into the Fireless Cooker kettle containing about 3 quarts of boiling 
water and let it remain in the Cooker 4 hours. -Strain and sweeten 
and flavor. Serve cold. , . 

SUET PUDDING— Use 1/2 cup finely chopped suet, 1 cup milk, 1 
cup molasses, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 teaspoonful soda, 
% teaspoonful cloves, % teaspoonful allspice, 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon, Ys cup raisins. Mix and sift flour, salt, soda and spices. Add 
milk and molasses to suet; combine the two mixtures. Add raisins 
which have been stoned and chopped and mixed with \wo table- 
spoonfuls of flour; mix well. Place in butter moulds and put into 
kettle, allowing boiling water to almost come to the top of cans. 
Place cover on kettle and boil 15 minutes. Place in Cooker 4 hours. 

FIG PUDDING— Take 1 cup sugar; % cup butter, % cup milk, 
2 1/3 cups flour, 4 level teaspoonfuls baking powder, whites of 4 
eggs, % cup flgs chopped fine. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, 
sift baking powder with flour, and add milk and flour alternately; 
add flgs and fold in whites of eggs. Pour mixture into buttered 
moulds; place rnould in kettle and add boiling water until it almost' 
comes to top of moulds. Boil 15 minutes and place in Cooker 3 
hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD PUDDING— Take 1 cup pearl or minute 
tapioca, 1 cup water, 3 cups milk, 3 eggs, % cup sugar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 1 tablespoonful butter. Soak pearl tapioca in cold water 
1 hour. Drain and add water. Heat to boiling point, add milk,' 
sugar and salt, cook slowly for 5 minutes, be careful not to let 
it burn. Place in Cooker for 2 hours. Add the well' beaten eggs 
and butter. Pour the mixture into a well buttered pan and bake 
until brown. The minute tapioca needs no soaking. 

CHERR'X' PUDDING— Use same recipe as for Fig Pudding, adding 
one cup of fresh cherries. Blueberries, raspberries or other fruits 
may be, used. If fruits are very juicy add about two table spoonfuls 
more of flour. Cooked cherries may be used, if drained and the 
juice saved for sauce. 

TAPIOCA AND APPLES— Take % cup pearl tapioca, 4 cups 
boiling water, 1 teaspoonful salt, % cup siigar, 6 sour apples. Soak 
tapioca in cold water 2 hours. Drain and add 4 cups of boiling 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 36S 

water.^ Boil 5 minutes, add sugar and salt when sugar is dissolved, 
place in Cooker for 2 hours. Pare and core apples, cut into pieces 
or leave whole, place apples in buttered dish and cover with cooked 
tapioca, bake until apples are soft. Serve with cream and sugar. 

PEACH TAPIOCA — ^Make same as Apple Tapioca, using instead 
fresh or canned peaches, or the dried cooked peaches, which are de- 
licious. The dried cooked apples may also be used for apple 
tapioca. 

FOR THE SICK ROOM 

. ARROWROOT GRUEL— Use 2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot, 1 quart 
boiling water, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful sugar. Mix arrow- 
root with just enough cold water to form a thin paste, add part of 
boiling water, mix well and add remaining hot water. Boil for 5 
minutes and place in Cooker 1 hour. Cool, add a few drops of 
vanilla and a little cream if desired, or gruel may be served hot. 
Remember, it takes longer to cook cereals in a Fireless Cooker than 
in the customary manner, hence do not use as much cereal but 
more water. 

OAT MEAL — ^Use 1 cup oat meal, 3 cups water, 1 teaspoonful 
salt. Stir well into boiling salted water, boil 8 minutes, place 
in Cooker over night. 

BOILED RICE — Take 1 cup rice, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 5 cups water. 
Wash rice, then stir it into boiling salted water and allow to boil 
8 minutes. Place kettle in Cooker and allow to remain 3 hours. 
It may be left over night without overcooking. 

RALSTON'S BREAKFAST FOOD— Take 6 cups water, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls salt, 1 cup cereal. Allow water to boil, add salt and 
slowly stir in breakfast food, beuig careful not to allow it to lump. 
Boil slowly for 8 minutes and place in Cooker all night. 

BARLEY MUSH — Use 1 cup barley meal, 5 cups water, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls salt. Stir meal slowly into boiling salted water, being 
careful not to let it lump. Cook for 10 minutes and place in 
Cooker for 8 hours or more. 

CORN MEAL MUSH — Take 1 cup corn meal, 1 teaspoonful salt, 
4 to 5% cups water. Slowly stir the meal into boiling salted water, 
being careful not to lump. Allow to boil slowly for 10 minutes, 
place in Cooker and allow to remain 8 to 10 hours or all night. 

If you wish to fry mush use only 4 cups of water. If the mush 
is to be a breakfast food as much as 5% cups may be used. 

RICE AND FIGS — Cook rice as for Boiled Rice, adding just before 
placing into Cooker a cup of figs which have been cut into small 
pieces. 

PETTIJOHN'S BREAKFAST FOOD— Use 1 cup cereal, 3 cups 
water, 1% teaspoonfuls salt. Stir cereal into salted boiling water, 
allow 'to boil for 8 minutes and place in Cooker over night. 



J66 THE FIRELBSS COOKER 

« 

CRACKED WHEAT— Take 1 cup of cracked wheat, 1 teaspoon- 
ful salt, 4 cups water. Soak cracked wheat In 3 cups of water for 
2 hours. Heat remaining water to boiling point, add salt and 
cracked wheat and water in which it has been soaking. Allow to 
boil for 10 minutes, place in Cooker over night. 

The flavor will be greatly improved if the wheat is slightly 
browned in the oven before soaking. 

VITOS — Use 1 cup cereal, 6% cups water, 2 teaspoohfuls salt. 
Salt water and when it boils rapidly add the meal slowly, stirring 
constantly to prevent lumping. Boil slowly 5 minutes and place 
in Cooker all night. 

FAEINA — Use same amounts as for Vitos. 

CREAM OF WHEAT — Take 1 cup cereal, eVa cups water, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls salt. Method the same as for Vitos. 

OATMEAL GRUEL — Use 1 cup oatmeal, 6 cups water, 3 tea: 
spoonfuls salt, 3 cups milk. Soak oatmeal over night in six cups of 
salted water. Boil slowly for 5 minutes and place in Cooker 6 
hours. Strain through cheese cloth bag and dilute with milk. Serve 
hot. 

BARLEY WATER— Clean a fourth of a cup of barley and add a 
quart of water, and soak over night. Boil gently for 5 minutes in 
same water in which it was soaked. Piece in Cooker 4 hours. 
Strain, season with salt, sugar and lemon jnice. It may be served 
either hot or cold. 

BEEF TEA — Take 1 lb. round steak, 2 cups water, % teaspoon- 
ful salt. Remove the skin and fat.put meat through meat chop- 
per and cover with cold water. Add salt and heat slowly to just 
below -the boiling point. Place in Cooker for 1 hour, strain and 
serve het. ' 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 



Alabaster, to clean 
and remove stains 

from 335 

Alabaster, to repair..335 
Allemande, or white 

sauce 92 

Almond cake 166 

Almond cookies ...185 

Almond milk 245 

Almond paste 88 

Ammonia for clean- 
ing and washing. .335 

Anchovy sauce 94 

Andalusian cake .... 161 

Angel food 168 

Apple cake 164 

Apple cream pie .... 195 
Apple dumpling ...221 

Apple fritters 87 

Apple marmalade . . 237 
Apple pie, Philadel- 
phia 200 

Apple pudding .'... 221 
Apple pudding, roy- 
al 216 

Apples and rice. ... 87 

Apple sauce 99 

Apples, stewed, and 

custard 206 

Appetizers 251 

Apricots a la Con- 

de 284 

Appropriate sauces 
for fish and meats.. 102 

Arrowroot 256 

Artichokes, boiled . . 131 
Artichokes with 

Dutch sauce .... 138 
ARTISTIC COOK- 
ING — FANCY 

DISHES 258 

blue fish 259 

spaghetti with 

meat 259 

sailor's spaghetti, 
or spaghetti in 
oUve oil 2«0 



Italian home made 
macaroni or 

spaghetti 260 

the shad 261 

black fish 261 

candled watermel- 
on rind 262 

the cod 262 

the trout 263 

Irish stew 263 

boiled macaroni. .263 
Asparagus . . . .128, 137 
Asparagus heads a 

la Duchesse 141 

Asparagus salad . . 105 
Asparagus sauce . . 98 
Asparagus soup ..16, 17 
Average cooking 
time Tl 

Bacon, boiled 57 

Bacon, breakfast . . 57 
Baked beef tea . . .253 
Baked black bass . . 33 
Baked cauliflower ...126 
Baked corn starch 

pudding 215 

Baked egg plant. . . .126 

Baked eggs 116 

Baked <ish 31 

Baked Indian p u d- 

ding 220 

Baked milk 249 

Baked mushrooms ..134 
Baked pork tender- 
loin 56 

Baked potatoes 122 

Baked potato balls...l23 
Baked sweet p o t a- 

toes 124 

Baked rice pudding..216 
Baked Spanish on- 
ions 134 

Baked squash 143 

Baked tomatoes . . . 135 
367 



Baking powder bis- 
cuits 152 

Banana fllling, deli- 
cious 159 

Bananas, fried .... 86 

Barley soup 13 

Basket of fruit for 

center-piece 282 

Beans, butter 142 

Bean salad 105 

Beans, string 127 

Beans, Lima and 

shell 128 

Bean soup, extra. . . 17 
Beds and bed 

clothes 335 

BEEF 41 

how to select 41 

roast beef 41 

braised beef .... 42 

beef stew 42 

beef a la mode ... 43 

Scotch roll 43 

fried beefsteak. . . 43 
beefsteak with on- 
ions 44 

broiled beefsteak.. 44 
Hamburgher steak 44 

corned beef 44 

fillet of beef lard- 
ed 45 

beefsteak toast ... 45 

beef kidney 45 

beef kidney No. 2.. 46 

beefsteak pie 46 

beef cake 47 

boiled tongue .... 47 
Btewed ox-tails... 47 

potted beef 48 

creamed beef 48 

fillet of beef 48 

spiced beef 48 

Beef a la jardin- 
iere 271 

Beef broth 250 

Beef, creamed 48 



368 



INDEX 



Beef extract 255 

Beef, fillet of. ..48, 275 
Beef gravy for poul- 
try, etc 100 

Beef, how to select. 41 

Beef, potted 48 

Beef, sirloin of . ..277 

Beef, spiced 48 

Beef stew 42 

Beef tea 250, 253 

Beefsteak, broiled . . 44 

Beefsteak, fried 43 

Beef kidney 45 

Beefsteak pie 46 

Beefsteak toast .... 45 
Beefsteak with 

onions 44 

Beer, hop 244 

Beets, boiled 132 

Berry ice cream . . . 202 

BEVERAGES 242 

coffee 242 

tea 248 

iced tea 243 

Russian tea . . . .243 

chocolate 243 

broma and cocoa..244 
raspberry shrub . . 244 

hop beer 244 

raspberry vinegar..244 

egg wine 245 

almond milk 245 

ching-ching 246 

orangeade 246 

lemon syrup .... 246 
pineapple water.. .246 
strawberry water..247 
currant water ... 247 
to make essence of 

coffee 247 

claret cup or fruit, 

cup 248 

koumiss 248 

mulled butter- 

milk 249 

baked milk 249 

elderberry syrup . . 249 
strawberry syrup..249 
Blackberry c o r d- 

ial 249 

Biscuits 152, 184 

Black bass, baked. . 33 



Blackberry cordial . . .249 
Blackberry pickle . . 232 

Black cake 163 

Black fish 261 

Black pudding 218 

Blanc mange 204 

Blanc mange, calf's 

foot 256 

Blanc mange, rib- 
bon 287 

Blue flsh 259 

Boiled artichokes . .131 
Boiled asparagus ..137 

Boiled bacon 57 

Boiled beets 132 

Boiled Brussels' 

sprouts 132 

Boiled cabbage ....126 
Boiled calf's head. . 50 
Boiled cauliflower ..125 

Boiled cod 26 

Boiled custard ... .2Q4 

Boiled eggs 114 

Boiled flounders ... 28 
Boiled fowl and rice 70 

Boiled ham 56 

Boiled hominy .... 130 
Boiled leg of mut- 
ton 64 

Boiled lobster 37 

Boiled macaroni ...263 
Boiled New England 

dinner 80 

Boiled potatoes .... 122 
Boiled pudding 

sauce 225 

Boiled rice ... .84, 130 
Boiled salt cod ... 28 
Boiled salt whiteflsh 28 
Boiled sweet pota- 
toes 124 

Boiled tongue 47 

Boiled vegetable 

marrow 136 

Bombay curry pow- 
der 94 

Boston brown bread.. 147 

Bottles, to clean 335 

Brains, lambs', a 

I'ltalienne 274 

Brains, pigs', royale..274 

Braised beef 42 

Brandied peaches. . .233 



Brandy sauce 223 

Brass, to clean and 
polish 336 

BREAD AND 

CAKES 145 

yeast . , 145 

railroad yeast . . 145 

salt rising 145 

salt rising bread. .146 
home made bread. .146 
brown bread .... 146 

corn bread 146 

Boston brown 

bread 147 

Graham bread . . 147 
delicate rolls .... 147 
French bread 

(fine) 148 

Parker House 

rolls 148 

breakfast rolls 

148, 149 

German puffs 149 

Graham gems .... 149 

corn gems 149 

very good mufl5ns..l49 
English muffins.. 130 
quick muffins.... 150 
corn meal muffins.. 150 

tea rusks 150 

white muffins .... 150 
ginger snaps .... 150 
ginger drops ....151 

Sally Lunu 151 

soft gingerbread. .151 
mother's ginger- 
bread 151 

steamed corn 

bread 151 

baking-powder bis- 
cuits 152 

rusks .152 

fritters 152 

Waldorf soda bis- 
cuit 152 

Albany breakfast 

cakes 152 

fried cakes 153 

spider corn cakes..l53 
Margaret Kivlan 

pancakes 153 

flannel cakes. ... .153 



INDEX 



369 



Graham griddle 

cakes ., 153 

green corn griddle 

cakes 154 

waffles 154 

raised doughnuts.. 154 

popovers 154 

bread griddle 

cakes .154 

buckwheat cakes...l5o 

toast 155 

cream toast 155 

Spanish toast. . . . 155 
Vienna rolls .... 155 
Chicago muffins....l56 

jolly boys '. .1.16 

crullers 156 

Bread, brown 146 

Bread cake 160 

Bread, French 148 

Bread, Graham ....147 
Bread griddle cakes.. 154 
Bread, home made...l46 

Bread sauce 99 

Breakfast bacon ... 57 
Breakfast cakes . . . 152 
Breakfast rollB..148, 149 
Breast of Iamb and 

green peas 63 

Breast of mutton, 

fried 62 

Breast of veal, 

stuffed 49 

Bride or christening 

cake 157 

Bride's sponge cake.. 168 
Brine for meat .... 79 
Britannia metal, to 

clean 336 

Broiled beefsteak . . 44 
Broiled chicken ... 69 

Broiled fish 28 

Broiled kidneys ... 51 
Braised leg of mut- 
ton 60 

Broiled lobster .... 38 
Broiled mutton 

chops 63 

Broiled oysters. .35, 40 
Broiled pigs' feet. . . 56 
Broiled pork ten- 
derloin 54 

Broiled sausages ... 55 



Broiled sweetbreads. 82 
Broiled venison .... 77 
Broma and cocoa.. 244 

Broth, beef 250 

Broth, eel 255 

Broth, mutton 13 

Brown bread 146 

Brown bread, Bos- 
ton 147 

Brussels' sprouts, 

boiled 132 

Buckwheat cakes . . . 155 

Butter beans 142 

Buttered prawns... 39 
Buttermilk, mulled..249 

Caobage, boiled 126 

Cabbage cooked in 

milk 127 

Cabbage dressing ..127 

t abbage, fried 126 

Cabbage salad. . 104-105 
Cabbage, stewed red.. 133 
Cabinet pudding. . . .219 

CAKE 157 

rich bride or 
christening cake. 157 
fruit cake. . .158, 1.19 
Eva's fruit cake. .159 
delicious banana 

ailing 159 

pork cake 159 

clove cake 159 

bread cake 160 

cup cake 160 

watermelon cake. .160 
Andalusian cake .161 
cinnamon cake... 161 

raisin cake 161 

French loaf 161 

Bernhart French ' 

loaf ; ... 162 

wedding cake .... 162 
measured pound 

cake 162 

tipsy cake 162 

French cake 163 

St. John's fruit 

cake 163 

black cake (very 

rich) 163 

apple cake 164 

Mrs, Wells' gin- 
gerbread 164 



spice cake ..... .164 

dried apple cake. .165 

pound cake 165 

Imperial cake. . . . 165 

wine cake 165 

White Mountain 

cake 166 

Josiah Allen's 

White Mountain 

cake 166 

sponge cake ....166 
almond cake .... 166 
white sponge cake 

166167 

orange cake 167 

water sponge cake 

167 

" the bride's sponge 

cake 168 

coffee cake 168 

angel food 168 

chocolate cake 

(best of all).. 168 

tip top cake 169 

cream cake 169 

snow-flake cake.. .189 
cocoauut cake . . . 169 

gold cake 170 

golden cake 170 

silver cake 170 

ladles' cake ....171 
soft gingerbread. .171 
soft ginger cake.. 171 
molasses cake . . . 171 
white cake . .171-172 
delicate cake .... 172 
white cream cake. .172 
cold water pound 

cake 171 

DoUie's chocolate 

cake 172 

Lizzie Gordon's 

wedding cake. .173 

loaf cake ^. . 173 

raised cake 173 

cream cookies .... 1 74 
marble cake .... 174 
marble cup cake... 174 

tea cake 174 

DoUie Varden 

cake 175 

Sarah's choice cup 

cake 175 



370 



INDEX 



Neufchatel cheese 
cake 175 

Gaelic fruit cake..l76 

sewing society 
cake 176 

yellow sponge 

. cake 176 

Cake, bride or 

christening ...... 157 

Cake, cocoanut .... 89 

Calf's head, toiled. . 50 
Calf's foot Blanc 

Mange 256 

Calf's liver 83 

Calf's liver sausages 51 
Candied watermelon 

rind 262 

CANDIES 238 

cream candy .... 238 
sugar candy .... 238 
French creams 

238-239 

walnut chocolate 

candy 239 

chocolate cara- 
mels 239 

kisses 239 

merry widow 

kisses 239 

crystallized pop- 
corn 240 

fudge 240 

molasses canBy . . 240 
cocoanut maca- 
roons 240 

nougat 240 

Nellie's cream nut 

fudge 241 

fig candy 241 

orange drops . . . .241 

Jujube paste 241 

Lanned fruit 234 

Canning 237 

Caper sauce 93 

Caper sauce, salmon 

with 33 

Capons with water- 
cresses, roasted. .::/ 8 

Caramel cake 179 

Caramel sauce 223 

Card cakes 185 

cardinal sauce ^ . . . 94 



Carpets, to brighten 336 
Carpets, to clean... 330 
Carpets, to put down 

336 

Carrageen (Irish 

moss) 253 

Carrot and lentil 

soup 20 

-Carrots, stewed i . . . 133 
CARVING 300 

directions for 
carving meats 
and poultry 300 

illustration of an ~ 
ox, showing 
mode of cutting 
up the various 

joints 302 

Catsup, grape 234 

Catsup, mushroom ..231 

Catsup, plum 234 

Catsup, tomato ....229 
Cauliflower, baked ..126 
Cauliflower, boiled .125 
Cauliflower with 

Dutch sauce .... 140 

Celery cream 14 

Celery, creme 11 

Celery sauce 95 

Center-piece, basket 

of fruit for 282 

Charlotte pudding.. ?13 
Charlotte russe . . . .205 
Charlotte russe with 

pistachios 286 

Cheese cake, neuf- 
chatel .175 

Cheese, macarbnl 

and 125 

Cheese omelet 118 

Cherries, crusts 

with 281 

Cherry sauce 224 

Chestnuts, curried.. 84 
Chicago mnfflns....l5e 
Chicken, broiled ... 69 
Chicken, cream of, 

soup 18 

Chicken croquettes .. 265 
Chicken, curried ... 74 
Chicken curry ...... 93 

Chicken fricassee .. 68 
Chicken, jellied ....257 



Chicken livers en 

brochette 272 

Chicken loaf 79 

Chicken patties .... 70 
Chicken pie ...)... 69 
Chicken, potple ... 69 
Chicken, pressed . . 70 
Chicken, mayonnaise 

of 266 

Chicken, roast 69 

Chicken salad ..109-10 
Chicken, smothered.. 69 
Chicken, stewed, 

, fried 71 

Chicken tamales. . .267 
Chili con came... 80, 268 
Chili sauce.. .90-1, 230 
China, to mend. ....336 

Ching-ching 246 

Chocolate 243 

Chocolate blanc 

mange 2d4 

Chocolate cake. 168, 181 
Chocolate caramels . . 239 
Chocolate cream pie.. 190 
Chocolate eclairs ...188 
Chocolate ice cream..202 
Chocolate pudding. .214 

Chops, pork ■ 58 

Chow chow, sweet . . 227 

Chowder 31 

Chowder, clam 39 

, Christening or bride 

cake '. 157 

Christmas dinner . . . 319 
Christmas roast tur- 
key 66 

. Chutney, tomato . . . 229 
Cinnamon cake . . . .161 
Citron or melon pre- 
serves 231 

Clam chowder 39 

Claret cup 248 

Clear mock turtle 

soup 19 

Clothing, light and 

warmth 322 

Clove cake 159 

Cocoa, broma and. .244 

Cocoanut cake 

89, 168-9, 177 

Cocoanut cookies . . 185 
Cocoanut macaroons.240 



INDEX 



373 



Cocoanut pudding,. .211 

Cod, boiled 26 

Codflsh 262 

Codfish balls 29 

Cod, salt with eggs.. 26 

CoCfee 242 

CoSce and tea stains, 

to remove 337 

Coffee cafee 168 

Coffee, corn -'il 

Coffee, essence of ..247 
Coffee ice cream .... 20:; 

Coffee pudding 213 

Cold cream 353 

Cold slaw 104 

Cold Bweet potatoes..l24 
Cold water pound 

cake 172 

Collared pig's face. . 58 

Consomme 10 

Consomme with mac- 
aroni 11 

Consomme with egg. 11 
Consomme with tap- 
ioca 11 

Cookies 183 

Cookies, creamed. . .174 
Cook stoves, care of..387 
Copper, to clean and 

polish 337 

Cordial, blackberry...249 

Corned beef 44 

Corn beef hash 86 

Corn bread 146 

Corn bread, steamed.151 
Corn cakes, spider.. .153 

Corn coffee 251 

Corn, cream of 12 

Corn gems 149 

Corn, green 129 

Commeal cakes, 

Spanish 187 

Commeal gruel 251 

Corn soup 13 

Corn starch for ple..l92 
Corn starch pud- 
ding 214 

Corn starch pudding, 

baked 215 

Cottage pudding 

210, 217 

Crab croquettes .... 40 
Crab salad 110 



Crabs, soft shell. . . 88 

Cracker pie 197 

Cracks in "walls, to 

repair 351 

Cranberry sherbet. 
Lady Washington . 283 

Cream cake 169, 178 

Cream candy 238 

Creamed Beef .... 48 
Creamed beef or cod- 
fish, eggs with... 117 
Creamed cookies ..174 
Creamed eggs .... 121 
Creamed macaroni 125 
Creamed onions . . 125 
Creamed oyster ... 17 
Creamed sweet- 
breads 269-270 

Cream nut fudge . .241 

Cream crullers 156 

Cream of Chicken 

soup 18 

Cream -ot corn .... 12 
Cream of tartar 

drink 253 

Cream pie 197 

Cream puffs 188 

Cream sauce 92 

Cream, Spanish and 

Russian 205 

Cream toast 155 

Cream tomato .... 12 
Cream, whipped ...206 

Creme celery 11 

Crockery, to mend. .338 
Croquettes, chicken. .265 
Croquettes, crab . . 40 
Croquettes, fish ... 33 
Croquettes, hominy. .131 
Croquettes, potato .131 
Croquettes, rice 131, 264 
Croquettes, stuffed 

cucumber 275 

Croquettes, veal . .273 

Croutons 10 

Croutons, green 

peas with 139 

Crullers, cream . . . 156 
Crust for pot pie . . 83 
Crust for raised pies 84 
Crust, short cake . . 190 
Cruets with cher- 
ries 281 



Crystallized popcorp 

240 

Cucumber cro- 
quettes, stuffed.. 275 
Cucumber pickles .226 
Cucumber salad . . .105 
Cucumber soup ... 20 
Cucumbers, stewed . 134 

Cup cake 160 

Cup cakes . . .175, 183 

Cup custard 257 

Cup pudding 221 

Currant cakes, lit- 
tle 187 

Currant sauce for 

meats 97 

Currant water ....247 
Curried chestnuts . . 84 

Curried chicken 74 

Curried eggs 121 

Curry, chicken ... 93 

Curry, lobster 38 

Curry powder, Bom- 
bay 7 94 

Curry sauce 91 

Curry, veal 50 

Custard and cocoa- 
nut pie 196 

Custard, boiled ... 204 

Custard, cup 257 

Custard for snow 

pudding 217 

Custard pie 200 

Custard sauce . . . .223 

Curtain rods 338 

Curtains, how to 

make 338 

Cutlet, Invalids' ...255 

Cutlets, lobster 38 

Cutlets, lobster a la 

Victoria 264 

Delicate cake 172 

Delicate rolls 147 

DESSERTS— 

Creams and Cus- 
tards 201 

ice cream 201 

chocolate ice 

cream 202 

peune whip 202 

berry ice cream. .202 
coffee ice cream.. 202 
orange float 202 



?72 



INDEX 



lemon Ice 203 

orange jelly . . . .203 
maple mousse . . . 203 
pineapple jelly . .203 

lemon jelly 203 

boiled custard . .204 
floating Island . . 204 
blanc mange .... 204 
chocolate Wane 

mange 204 

rice cream ..... 204 
Charlotte russe. .205 
Spanish cream . .205 
Russian cream . .205 
whipped cream . . 206 
spiced grapes . . . 206 
Btewed apples and 

custard . . 206 

jelly, with oranges 208 
orange custards .208 
rice snow balls . . . 208 
nesselrode pud- 
ding '. 209 

stewed pears .... 207 
preserved quinces 207 
English plum 

pudding ..209-210 
prune pudding . .210 
cottage pudding .210 

fig pudding 210 

fruit pudding .210-11 
cocoanut pudd!ng.211 
tapioca pudding . .211 
;tapioca cream ...212 

tapioca ice 212 

suet pudding ....212 
steamed pork pud- 
ding 213 

Graham pudding. 213 
fruit rice cream.. 213 
Charlotte pudding 

213 

coffee padding . .213 
chocolate pud- 
ding 214 

sponge pudding ..214 
corn starch pud- 
ding 214 

baked corn starch 

pudding 215 

famous fig pud- 
ding 215 



queen of pud- 
dings 215 

orange pudding. .215 
puff pudding ... .216 
royal apple pud- 
ding ...216 

baked rice pud- 
ding 216 

rice pudding . . . .216 
rice pudding 

without eggs ..217 
Melba cottage 

pudding 217 

snow pudding ...217 
custard to be eat- 
en with snow 

pudding 217 

snow pudding No. 

3 217 

black pudding . ..218 
steamed, Indian 

pudding 218 

egg pudding . . . .218 
cabinet pudding .219 
moca pudding . . .219 
macaroni pudding.219 
baked Indian pud- 
ding 220 

Mrs. Lottie Pal- 
mer's Indian 
pudding ......220 

ftiinute pudding .220 
tapioca pudding 

with apples . . . 220 
cup pudding ....221 

apple pudding ...221 
apple dumpling ..221 

Deviled eggs 115 

Deviled tomatoes ..127 
Digestion, time re- 
quired for VII 

Dinner, Christmas .319 

Dinner, Easter 320 

Dinner, Thanks- 
giving 318 

Dinner, wedding . .320 
Dishes, how to 

wash 338 

Dishes, miscellan- 
eous 80 

Disinfectants 338 

Doughnuts 189 

Doughnuts, raised .154 



Dollie's chocolate 

cake 172 

Dollie Varden cake. 175 
Dont's for the 

Kitchen 332 

Drawn butter sauce 91 
Dressing, cabbage .127 
Dressing for potato 

salad 107 

Dressing for sweet- 
breads 269 

Dressing, French 

salad 112 

Dressing, Mayon- 
naise Ill 

Dressing, salad . . . Ill 
Dressing, sour 

cream 112 

Dressing, tartare. ..112 
Dried apple cake... 165 

Drop cakes 183 

Duck, mock 83 

Duck, roast 73 

Dutch omelet 121 

Dutch rarebit 272 

Easter dinner menu.. 320 

Eclairs 188 

Economy 321 

Eel broth 255 

Eels, fried 33 

Eels, to cook 30 

Eel with tartaie 

sauce 32 

Egg baskets . , 116 

Egg, consomme 

with 11 

Eggplant, balked . . 126 
Eggplant, fried . . . 126 
Eggplant ragout ... 88 
Egg pudding 218 

EGGS 114 

boiled eggs 114 

hard boiled eggs. 114 

fried eggs _ 114 

deviled eggs .... 115 
eggs on a plate. ..115 
poached eggs ...115 

egg baskets 116 

baked eggs in po- 
tato cases ... .116 
scrambled eggs 
116-17 



INDEX 



Wt5 



eggs with creamed 

beef or codflsh.llT 
plain omelet ... .117 
oyster omelet ...117 
, cheese omelet ...118 
liam or beet ome- 
let lis 

mushroom omelet.. 118 
omelet souffle . . . 118 

rum omelet 118 

Jam omelet 119 

French pancakes 119 

snow eggs 119 

Scotch eggs 120 

Egg salad 109 

Eggs a la Suisse... 121 

Egg sauce 93 

Eggs, ham and 57 

Egg soup 17 

Eggs on a plate. . . .115 
Eggs, salt cod with 26 

Egg wine 245 

Elderberry syrup ..249 
English plum pud- 
ding 209-10 

ENTREES : 264 

lobster cutlets a 
la Victoria ...264 

delicious rice cro- 
quettes 264 

sheep's tongues a 
la Dominicaine.265 

chicken croquettes 
265 

ham "historie" . 266 

salmis of wood- 
cecks 266 

mayonnaise of 
chickens with 
jejly 266 

chicken tamales 
(Mexican style) 267 

chili con carne...268 

sam bal 268 

patties a la flnan- 
clere 268 

fillets of snipes in 
cases 269 

creamed sweet- 
breads ..• 269 

dressing for ' 

sweetbreads ..269 



creamed sweet- 
breads 270 

loin of Teal a la 

Montglas 210 

piece of beef a la 
jardiniere ....271 

Dutch rarebit 272 

chicken livers en 

brochette 272 

sweetbreads a la 

Colbert 273 

veal croquettes . . 273 
pigs' brains roy- 

ale 274 

lambs' brains a 

I'ltalienne 274 

stuffed cucumber 

croquettes . . . .275 
fillet of beef a la 

Godard 275 

saddle of venison, 
larded and 

roasted 276 

a fine sirloin of 

beef 277 

ham a la print- 

aniere 277 

roasted capons, 
with water 

cresses 278 

larded and roast- 
ed turkey, with 

truffles 279 

roasted part- 
ridges 279 

side dish of tur- 
key 280 

side dish of roast 

beef 280 

Epicurean sauce... 98 
Essence of coffee... 247 
Extract of beef with 

sago and cream .'.255 
Farced mushrooms 138 
Feathers, to clean . 339 

Pig cake *. 179 

Fig candy 241 

Fig pudding ..210,215 

Fillet of beef 48 

Fillet of beef a la 

Godard 275 

Fillet of beef lard- 
ed ....". 45 



Fillets of mackerel. 32 
Fillets of snipes in 

cases 269 

Filling, banana . . . 159 
Fireless Cooker, 100 

recipes .Jol 

FISH to select and 

cook 25 

instructions 25 

boiled cod 26 

salt cod with eggs 

26-7 

flsh balls 27 

stewed flsh 27 

boiled salt cod... 28 
boiled salt white 

flsh ., , . . , 28 

boiled flounders . . 28 

broiled flsh 28 

codflsh balls 29 

fried flsh 29 

fried smelts ...29-30 
fried herring ... 30 

to cook eels 30 

baked flsh 31 

flsh chowder .... 31 
scalloped flsh ... 31 
eel with tartare 

sauce 32 

flllets of mackerel 32 
salmon, with ca- 
per sauce 33 

baked black bass. 33 

fried eels 33 

flsh croquettes -. . 33 
Fish and meats, ap- 
propriate sauces 

■ for 102 

Fish stock 23 

Flannel cakes 153 

Flaxseed lemonade. 251 
Floating island ...204 

Float, orange 202 

Flounders, boiled . . 28 
Foaming sauce . . . .225 

FOOD AND DRINK 
FOR THE SICK 

250 

beef tea 250 

beef broth 260 



374 



INDEX 



rice for invalids . 250 
cornmeal gvuel . . 251 

toast water 251 

corn coffee 251 

jelly water 251 

flaxseed lemonade 

251 

appetizers 251 

to make gruel for 

invalids 252 

the invalid's mut- 
ton cliop 252 

-whey 252 

Irish moss or car- 

rogeen 253 

Iceland moss . . .253 
cream of tartar 

drink .... 253 

baked beef tea. . .253 
panada for inval- 
ids 254 

panada (another 

mode) 254 

restorative Jelly. . 255 
sago, cream, and 
- extract of beef.255 
the invalid's cut- 
let 255 

eel broth . . : 255 

calf's foot Wane 

mange 256 

arrowroot 256 

herb teas 256 

jellied chicfeen . . 257 
slippery elm bark 

tea 257 

cup custard . . . .257 
Foods for each 

month 327 

Fowl a la Marengo. 74 

French bread 148 

French cake 163 

French creams . .288-9 
French fried pota- 
toes 123 

French loaf cake ... 161 
French pancakes ..119 
ITrench .salad dres- 

ing 112 

^French white sauce 97 
Fricandeau of veal. 52 
Fricasseed oysters.. 37 
Frleasse of veal .... 49 



Fried bananas .... 86 
Pried beefsteak ... 43 
Pried cabbage .... 126 

Fried cakes 183 

Fried eels 33 

Fried eggs 114 

Fried -eggplant . . . 126 

Pried flsh 29 

Fried herring 30 

Fried onions 125 

Fried oysters 35 

F'ried pigsfeet .... 56 

Fried potatoes 123 

Pried potatoes with 

eggs 124 

Fried rabbit 75 

Fried salsify or oys- 
ter plant 137 

Pried sausages .... 57 

B'ried smelts 29 

Fried squash 143 

Fried veal cutlet. . . 50 

Fritters 152 

Fritters, apple .... 87 
Fritters, green corn 

129 

Frozen fruits, old 

Dominion 288 

Fruit, basket of, for 

center-piece 282 

Fruit pake 158-9 

Fruit cake, Gaelic. 176 
Fruit cake,St.John's.l63 

Fruit, canrfed 234 

Fruit cookies 186 

Fruit cup 248 

Pruit jellies 235 

Fruit layer cake. ..180 

Fruit pies 191 

Pruit, preserved -. . 233 
Fruit pudding .210-11 
Pruit rice cream ..213 

Fruit salad 107 

Fi?uit sauce 222 

Fruit for short 

cake 190 

Pruit, spiced — syrup 

for 236 

Pruit stains, to re- 
move . . .- 339 

FRUITS AND 

ICES 281 



crusts with cher- 
ries 281 

plum pudding, 

with punch ..281 
basket of fruit 
for center-piece 

2812 

Lady Washington 
cranberry sher- 
bet 283 

pineapple a la 

Creole 283 

apricots a la conde.284 

sultan cake 284 

the king's merin- 
gues 285 

muscovite jelly. .285 
Charlotte russe, 

with pistachios.286 
suedolse of fruits, 

with jelly ....287 
ribbon Wane 

mange 287 

Old Dominion fro- 
zen fruits 288 

Fruits, Old Domin- 
ion frozen 288 

Fruits, suedois of. .287 
Fruits — Sugar re- 
quired to can. . . .237 

Pudge 240-1 

Fumigation 340 

Furniture polish . .340 
Furs, to clean .... 340 
Furs, to preserve ..341 
Purs, to revive ...341 
Gaelic fruit cake... 176 

Game 74 

Game pie, Grand 

Pacific 78 

Gems, corn 149 

Gems, Graham .... 149 
German method of 

cooking potatoes. 134 
German mince pie. 195 

German pntFs 149 

Gherkins, pickled . . 230 
Giblet sauce, stuffed 

turkey 67 

Gilding, to clean... 341 
Gilt frames, to clean 

and revive 341 

Ginger bread 151 



INDEX 



375 



Ginger bread, Mrs. 

Wells' 164 

Ginger bread, soft. 171 
Ginger cake, soft ..171 
Ginger cookies .... 186 
Ginger drops .151-183 
Ginger drop calces. 183 
Ginger snaps ..150-186 
Glass stoppers, to 

loosen 341 

Gloves, kid, to 

clean 341 

Gold articles, to re- 
store color of. . .342 

Gold cake 170 

Goose, roast 73 

Graliam bread ....147 

Graham gems 149 

Grabam griddle 

cakes 153 

Graham pudding . . 213 

Grape catsup 234 

Grapes, spiced .... 206 
Gravy for hashes, 

etc lOO 

Grease spots, to re- 
move 342 

Green corn 129 

Green corn fritters.129 
Green 'corn griddle 

cakes 154 

Green peas 128 

Green peas, breast 

of Iamb and 63 

Green peas with 

croutons 139 

Green tomato pick- 
les 228 

Green vegetables ..126 
Griddle cakes, 

bread 154 

Griddle cakes, Gra- 
ham 153 

Griddle cakes, green 

corn 1~A 

Grouse, larded .... 77 
Gruel, cornmeal . . .251 
Gruel for Invalids . . 252 

Gumbo soup 14 

Haggis, Scotch 62 

>6[air brushes, to 

clean 343 



Ham a la Printan- 

lere 277 

Ham and eggs 57 

Ham, boiled 56 

Hamburger steak . . 44 
Ham or beef omelet.118 
Ham "Historle" ...266 
Ham sandwiches. . . 84 

Ham, to bake 59 

Hard boiled eggs ... 114 

Hare, jugged 77 

Hare, pickled spiced 76 
Haricot of mutton. 61 

Hasen-Pfeffer 76 

Hash 86 

Hash, cheat) gravies 

for 100 

Hash, corn beef ... 86 

Herb teas 256 

Hermits 187 

Herring, fried 30 

Herring salad 113 

Hints on Market- 
ing 296 

Hodgepodge soup . . 20 
Hollandaise sauce . 97 
Hominy, boiled ...130 
Hominy croquettes. 131 

Hop beer 244 

Horseradish sauce . . 95 
Household Hints 

and Recipes .... 835 
How to choose lob- 
sters 299 

How to cut various 

joints 302 

Ice cream 201 

Ice cream cake .... 180 

Iced tea 243 

Iceland moss 253 

Imperial cake 165 

Indelible ink, to 

make 343 

Indian pudd^g, 

baked ..220 

Indian pudding. Mrs. 

Lottie Palmer's, . , 220 
Indian pudding,- 

steamed 218 

Ink spots, to remove 

343 

Invalids' cutlet ..,255 



Invalids' mutton 

chop 252 

Irish moss 253 

Irish stew 60, 263 

Iron rust 344 

Italian home-made 
macaroni or Spa- 
ghetti 260 

Ivory ornaments, to 

clean 344 

J^am omelet 119 

Jams 233 

Japanned ware, to 

clean 344 

Jellied chicken 257 

Jellies, fruit 235 

Jelly cake 177-8 

Jelly, lemon 203 

Jelly, muscovite . . 285 

Jelly, orange 203 

Jelly, pineapple . . . 203 
Jelly, restorative ..255 

Jelly roll 178 

Jelly sauce for 

game 95 

Jelly water 251 

Jelly with oranges. 208 
Jewelry, to clean . . 344 

Johnnie cake 187 

Jolly boys 156 

Jugged hare 77 

Jujube paste 241 

Julienne soup 19 

Jumbles 185, 188 

Ketchup, mushroom 

(see CATSUP).. 231 
Kidney, beef.... 45, 46 
Kidneys, stewed . . 51 

Kidney sauce 98 

Kidneys, broiled ... 51 
Kidneys on toast... 63 
King's meringues . . 283 

Kisses . 239 

Knives, care of . . . .344 
Koumiss (milk bee.) 

248 

Ladles' cake 171 

Lady's fingers 183 

Lamb chops saute 

with peas 64 

Lambs' brains a la 
Italienne 274 



376 



INDEX 



Lamb, roast saddle 
of 62 

Lamp burners, to 
clean <....34o 

Larded and roasted 
saddle of venison.276 

Larded grouse .... 77 

Larding 85 

LAYER CAKES .. 177 

Minnie's 89 

cocoanut cake ...177 

jelly calce 177-8 

■jelly roll 178 

cream cake 178 

fig cake 179 

caramel cake . . . 179 

lemon cake 179 

pineapple cake ..180 
ice cream cake... 180 
fruit layer cake . . 180 
chocolate cake ..181 
Laying a cloth. Ev- 
erything needed 

in ,.290 

Leg of mutton, 

braised 60 

Lemonade, flaxseed. 251 
Lemon cakes.. 179, 185 
Lemon cream pie . . 193 
Lemon custard pie.196 

Lemon ice 203 

Lemon jelly 203 

Lemon pie 196-7-8 

Lemon sauce 222 

Lemon syrup 246 

Lettuce and tomato 

salad 103 

Light, warmth and 

clothing 322 

Lima beans and 

shell beans 128 

Liver, calf's 83 

Livers, chicken, en 

brochette 272 

Loaf cake 173 

Loaf, chicken 79 

Loaf, veal 50 

Loaf, French 161 

Lobster a la New- 
burgh 37 

Lobster, boiled .... 37 
pobster, broiled . , . 38 



Lobster ourry .... 38 
Lobster cutlets a la 

Victoria 264 

Lobster patties ... 39 

Lobster salad 108 

Lobsters, how to 

choose 299 

Lobster cutlets ... 38 

Lobster soup 17 

Lobsters, to choose. 89 
Loin of veal a la 

Montglas 270 

Mabel's lemon pie.. 198 
Macaroni and cheese 

125 

Macaroni, boiled .... 263 
Macaroons, cocoa- 
nut 240 

Macaroni, con s o m- 

me with 11 

Macaroni, creamed. 125 
Macaroni German . . 85 
Maccaroni, Italian 

home-made .....260 
.MaccaEOUi pudding .219 
Maitre d' hotel 

sauce 92 

Maple mousse 203 

Marble cake 174 

Marmalade, apple .237 
Marmalade, orange . 236 
Marble, to clean . . . 345 

Marketing 296 

Mashed potatoes . . 122 
Mashed squash . . . 143 
Mashed turnips . . . .127 

Materials -..322 

Mayonnaise of chick- 
ens, with jelly. .266 
Mayonnaise dress- 
ing ...Ill 

Melba cottage pud- 
ding 217 

Melon or citron pre- 
serves 231 

Melted butter sauce 99 
Menus, Easter, 

Christmas, etc... 318 
Menus for the year. 303 
Muscovite jelly . . . 285 



Meringues, the 

King's ...285 

Merry widow kisses.239 
Mildew, to remove. 346 

Milk, baked 249 

Milk bee (Koumiss) 

248 

Milk soup 18 

Milk stew 36 

Mince meat 192-3 

Mince pie, German. 195 
Mince pie, mock... 193 

Mint sauce 91 

Minute pudding . . . 220 

MISCELLANEOUS 

DISHES 80 

chili con carne 

(Mexican) .... 80 
boiled New Eng- 
land dinner ... 80 
Spanish stew ... 81 

tripe 81 

Welsh rarebit. ..81-2 
potted meats .... 82 
broiled sweet- 
breads 82 

calf's liver 83 

mock duck 83 

pot pie 83 

crust for pot pie. 83 

boiled rice 84 

crust, for raised 

pies 84 

ham sandwiches.. 84 
oyster sandwiches 84 
favorite curried 
chestnuts .... 84 

larding 85 

nudeln ( German 

macaroni) .... 85 
Al corn beef hash 86 
fried bananas ... 86 

hash 86 

apples and rice. . 87 
apple fritters ... 87 
egg plant ragout. 88 

rissoles 88 

almond paste ... 88 
trout (or other 

fish) in jelly. . 89 

cocoanut cake ... 89 

Mock bisque soup. . 13 



INDEX 



377 



Mock duck 83 Mutton tooth 13 Orange cake 167 

Mock mince pie.... 193 Mutton cliops for Orange drops 241 

Moca pudding ....219 invalids 2S2 Orange float 202 

Mock turtle soup... 18 Muttonettes 65 Orange Jelly 203 

Molasses cake ....171 Mutton, roast. .. .60-61 Oranges, jelly witli.208 
Molasses candy ...240 Mutton scrambled.. 65 Orange marmalade 236 
Moss, Irish and Ice- Napkins and table 

land 253 cloths 291 

Moths, to set rid Nasturtiums, 

of 346 pickled 230 Ox, showing how to 

Mousse, Maple ....203 Neapoiitaines 199 cut various joints 

Muffins 149-50 Neuf chatel cheese 

Muffins, Chicago ..156 cake 175 Oxtails, stewed.... 47 

Mulligatawny soup . 16 New England din- Ox-tail soup 14 

ner, boiled 80 Oyster cocktail 

Nesselrode pudding, sauce 98 

the new 209 Oyster omelet ....117 

New England roast Oyster patties .... 37 

turkey 68 Oyster pie 36 

Nickel ornaments. Oysters, broiled. 35, 40 

to polish 346 Oysters, fricasseed.. 37 

Noodle soup 15 Oysters, fried 35 

..129 



Orange pie 195 

Orange pudding . . .215 
Orange tarts 198 



.302 



MUTTON AND 

LAMB 60 

Irish stew 60 

braised leg of 

mutton ....... 60 

roast saddle of 
mutton 61 



haricot of mutton 61 Normandy sauce. . . 94 Oyster plant 



roast saddle of Nougat 240 Oystei- plant, fried. 137 

^^^ ^2 Nudeln 85 Oysters roasted ia 

breast of mutton Oatmeal cookies, the shell »5 

Sarah's 186 Oyster sandwiches. 84 

Odors, to destroy . . 346 Oyster sauce 96 

Oilcloth, to clean Oysters on half 

and brighten 346 shell 34 

Oysters on a block 

of ice 34 

36 



fried 62 

Scotch haggis ... 62 
kidneys on toast. 63 
breast of lamb 

and green peas 63 qj, paintings, to 



broiled mutton 



clean 346 



chops 63 okra soup 17 Oysters, pickled. 

Oysters, scalloped 



Iamb chops saute 

with peas 
boiled leg of mut- 



Old Dominion fro- 

•64 zen fruits 288 

Old Zealand sauce. 94 Oyster stew. 



ton 64 Qjjyg sauce 



.35,36 
...36 



mutton pudding . 
mutton a la ven- 



64 



65 



97 Paint, mixture for 



scalloped mutton. 65 Onions, baked Span- 
Mulled buttermilk.. 249 i^^ 134 

Mushroom ketchup. 231 onions, beefsteak 



Omelet, Dtftch 121 cleaning 347 

Omelets 117-119 Paint, to clean ...347 

Omelet souffle 118 Paint, to remove... 347 



Mushrooms 129 

Mushroom sauce... 96 
Mushrooms, baked .134 
Mushrooms, farced 138 



with 44 



Paint, to remove 

odor of fresh 348 

Panada 254 

Pancakes, French. .119 



Onions, creamed . . 125 Papier-mache a r t i- 

Onions, fried 125 cles, to clean .... 348 

Onions, scalloped . 124 Pan cakes 153 



Mushroom omelet .118 onion soup '. . . 21 Parker House rolls. 148 



Mustard pickles ...227 
Mustard pickles, 

Alice's ...235 

Mustard sauce .... 91 



Onions, stewed Span- Parsnips, boiled ... 130 

Ish 135 Parsnips, fried ... 130 

Orangeade 246 Parsley sauce 03 



Mutton, haricot of. 61 Orange custards . .208 Partridge, roast. 



T4 



378 



INDEX 



Partridges, roasted. 279 
Paste, almond ..... 88 
Paste, puff and tart.191 

PASTRY 182 

geperal instruc- 
tions .182 

drop cakes, cook- 
ies and fried 

cakes 183 

ginger drops 183 

ginger drop cakes.183 

cup cakes 183 

lady's fingers . . . 183 
Savoy biscuits . . 184 
sugar cookies . . . 184 

jumbles 185, 188 

almond cookies . . 185 
cocoanut cookles..l85 

lemon cakes 185 

card cakes 185 

ginger cookies. . .186 

fruit cookies 186 

ginger snaps 186 

Sarah's oatmeal 

cookies 186 

Spanish tortillas . 187 
little currant 

cakes 187 

hermits 187 

Johnnie cake .... 187 

cream puffs 188 

eclairs 188 

chocolate eclairs. 188 
transparent puffs 

188 

doughnuts 189 

raised doughnuts.189 

short cakes 190 

crust No. 1 190 . 

crust No. 2 190 

fruit for short 

cake 190 

roll puddings .... 190 

PIES 191 

pie crust 191 

puff paste 191 

tart paste 191 

fruit pies 191 

. corn starch for 

pie 192 

mince meat 192 



mother's mince 

meat 193 

mock mince pie.. 193 
lemon cream pie.. 193 
pumpkin pie • • . 193-4 
potato cream pie.. 194 

squash pie 194 

orange pie 195 

transparent pie . . 195 
apple cream pie.. 195 
German mince pie 

193 

custard and co- 
coanut pie. . . .196 
lemon pie . .196, 197 
lemon custard pie 

196 

chocolate cream 

pie . . . .' 196 

cracker pie 197 

sour milk pie. . . .197 

cream pie 197 

Mabel's lemon pie , 

198 

sweet potato pie. 198 
potato and carrot 

pie 198 

orange tarts 198 

sand tarts 198 

Neapolitaines . . . 199 

rhubarb pie 399 

custard pie (ex- 
tra fine) 200 

walnut wafers . . .200 
New England 

pumpkin pie . . .200 
Philadelphia ap- 
ple pie 200 

Patties, a la Finan- 

ciere 268 

Patties, chicken ... 70 

Patties, lobster 39 

Patties, oyster 37 

Peaches, brandied .283 
Peaches, preserved 232 

Pears, stewed 207 

Peas, green 128 

Pea soup 16 

Peas, stewed duck 

and 73 

Piccalilli ... 230 

Pickled apples 234 



Pickled gherkins. . .230 
Pickled nasturtiums 

230 

Pickled oysters.... 36 

PICKLES AND 

PRESERVES ...226 
cucumber pickles,226 
ripe cucumber 

pickles 226 

chow chow 227 

sweet chow chow.227 
mustard pickles, .227 
green tomato 

pickles 228 

ripe tomato pick- 
les' 228 

tomato' preserves.228 
sliced green to- 
mato pickles. ..229 
tomato chutney.. 229 
spiced tomatoes.. 229 ' 
tomato catsup . . . 229 

chili sauce 230 

citron or melon 

preserves 231 

Martha Washing- 
ton's favorite 

catchup 231 

blackberry pickle.232 
preserved peaches 

232 

watermelon pick- . 

les 232 

pineapple pre- 
serves . . ■ 232 

brandied peaches.233 
preserved fruit.. 233 
pickled apples... 234 

plum catsup 234 

grape catsup .... 234 

canned fruit 234 

Alice's mustard 

pickles 235 

fruit jellies 235 

jams . . j 235 

orange marma- 
lade 236 

syrup for spiced 

fruit 236 

apple marmalade.237 
canning 237 



INDEX 



379 



sugar to a quart 

Jar 237 

Pie, teef steak 46 

Pie, chicken 69 

Pie crusts 191 

I'ie, Minnie's prize 

chicken 72 

Pie, oyster 36 

Pie, pigeon 78 

Pie plant (rhu- 
barb) pie 199 

Pigeon pie 78 

Pigeons, roast 71 

Pig roast 55 

Pigs' brains, royale.274 
Pigs' feet, broiled.. 56 
Pigs' feet, fried ... 56 

Pilaff 143 

Pineapple a la Cre- 
ole 283 

Pineapple cake 180* 

Pineapple jelly 203 

Pineapple preserves 

232 

Pineapple warter ... 246 
Piquant (Zwets- 

chen) sauce ....224 

Plain omelet 117 

Plain sauce 223 

Plum pudding with 

punch 281 

Plum catsup 234 

Plum pudding, Eng- 
lish 209-10 

Poached eggs 115 

Poivrade sauce .... 101 
Popcorn, crystalliz- 
ed 240 

Pop overs 154 

PORK 54 

roast pork 54 

pork tenderloin 

broiled 54 

salt pork 54-5 

pork and beans. . 55 
broiled sausages. S5 

roast pig 55 

baked pork ten- 
derloin 56 

boiled ham 56 

pigs' feet broiled. 56 
fried pigs' feet. . . 56 



fried sausages ... 57 
ham and eggs. ... 57 
breakfast bacon.. 57. 

boiled bacon ."J7 

collared pigs' face 58 

pork chops 58 

roast leg of pork 59 

to bake ham 59 

Pork cake 159 

Pork pudding, 

steamed ....... .213 

Pork, roast leg of . . 59 
Potato and carrot 

pie 198 

Potato cakes 123 

Potato cream pie . . 194 
Potato croquettes .181 
Potatoes, baked . . . 122 
Potatoes, boiled . . . 122 
Potatoes, German 
method of cook- 
ing 134 

Potatoes, mashed . . 122 
Potatoes roasted 

with meat 123 

Potatoes, Saratoga 124 
Potatoes, scalloped 123 

Potato salad 106-7 

Potato salad, dress- 
ing for 107 

Potato soup' 12 

Potpie 83 

Potpie, chlckgn 69 

Potted beef 48 

Potted meats 82 

POULTRY AND 

GAME 66 

Christmas roast 

turkey 66 

turkey stuffed 

with oysters ... 67 
stuffed turkey, 

giblet sauce... 67 
turkey stuffed 

with chestnuts. 68 
New England 

roast turkey ... 68 
chicken fricassee. 68 
roast chicken .... 69 
smothered chicken 69 
broiled chicken. . 69 
chicken pie. 69 



chicken pot pie. . 69 
pressed chicken . . 70 
boiled fowl and 

rice 70 

chicken patties.. 70 
stewed chicken 

fried 71 

quail on toast... 71-2 

roast duck 73 

roast goose 73 

stewed duck and 

peas 73 

fowl a la Marengo 74 
curried chicken . . 74 
roast partridge. .. 74 

roast rabbit 75 

fried rabbit 75 

stewed rabbit 75 

"Hasen-Pfeffer". . 76 
roast venison .... 76 
broiled venison . . 77 

Jugged hare 77 

larded grouse .... 77 
Grand Pacific 

game pie 78 

pigeon pie 78 

a brine for veni- 
son 79 

chicken loaf 78 

Pound cake 165 

Pound cake, cold 

water 172 

Pound cake, meas- 
ured 162 

Prawns, buttered... 39 

Preserved fruit 233 

Preserved peaches .232 
Preserved quinces . . 207 
Prune pudding . . . .210 
Prune whip . , . .. .202 
Puddings, boiled, 

sauce for 225 

Puddings, roll 190 

Puff paste 191 

Puff pudding 216 

Puffs, German 149 

Puffs, transparent .188 
Pumpkin pie, . . . 193-4 
Pumpkin pie. New 

England 200 

Putty, to remove . . . 348 
Quail on toast. ..71,72 



380 



INDEX 



Queen of puddings. 215 
yuinces, preservbd.207 

Babbit, fried 75 

Babbit, I'oast «75 

Babbit, stewed .... 75 
Eagout, egg plant . . 88 
Bailroad yeast. . . ..145 

Baised cake 173 

Baised doughnuts 

, . , . 154, 189 

Baisin cake 161 

Eareblt, Dutiih 272 

BaspbAry sauce. ..224 

Bice cream. 204 

Baspberry sbi'ub. . .244 
Easpberry vinegar . 244 
Baw tomatoes . , . . . 128 

Bepalrs 322 

BestoratiTe jelly... 255 

Ehubarb pie 199 

Bibbon blanc mange.287 
Bibbons, to clean. .348. 
Bice, apples and . . 87 
Eice, boiled I...84, 130 
Bice, boiled fowl 

and TO 

Eice cream_ 204 

Eice pudding 216 

Eipe tomato pick- 
les .226 

Eice- cream, fruit.. 213 
Eice croquettes 131, 264 
Bice for' invalids. .250 
Eice pudding, 

baked 210 

Eice pudding with- 
out eggs 217 

Eice ' snowballs ... 208 

Eice soup 13 

Bice, steamed ...'..131 
Eipe cucumber pick- 
les 228 

Eissoles, 88 

Boast beef 41 

Boast beef, side 

dish of 280 

Boast chicken 69 

Boast duck 73 

Boast goose 73 

Eoasted tapong with 
water cresses ... 278 



Boasted and larded 
venison, saddle of 

276 

Boasted, larded tur- 
key, with truffles.279 
Boast leg of pork.. 59 

Boast mutton 60 

Boast partridge 74-279 

Boast pig 55 

Boast pigeons 71 

Boast pork ....... 54 

Boast rabbit 75 

Boast saddle of 

Iamb 62 

Boast saddle of 

mutton 61 

Boast veal 49 

Eoast venison .... "76 

Eobert sauce 101 

Boll puddings 190 

Bolls, breakfast .148-9 
Eolls, delicate .... 147 
Bolls, l^arker House 

148 

Eolls, Vienna 155 

Boyal apple pud- 
ding 216 

Bum omelet 118 

Busks : 132 

Busks, tea 150 

Eussian cream .... 205 
Eussian soup, the 

Czarii;a . , 24 

Bussran tell 243 

Bust, to remove 
from polished 

iron 348 

Sago, cream and ex- 
, tract of beef. . . .255 
Sailors' spaghetti .. 260 
Salad dressing .... Ill 

SALADS 103 

tomato sala(J,. . . .103 
lettuce and toma- 
to salad . . 103 

cold slaw 104 

cabbage salad . 104-5 
shrimp salad.... 105 
cucumber salad.. 105 

beau salad' 105 

asparagus salad.. 105 
vegetable salad.. 106 



potato salads. .106-7 
dressing for pota- 
to salad 107 

-fruit salad' 107 

salmon salad .... 108 
lobster salad .... 108 
sardine salad.... 108 

egg salad 109 

chicken salad. 109-10 
tongue salad.... 110 

crab salad 110 

mayonnaise dress- 
ing ..Ill 

salad dressing. ..Ill 
sour cream dress- 
ing ; 112 

French salad 

dressing 112 

■tartare dressing.. 112 

summer salad.... 112 

>■ Waldorf salad. . .ll.S 

spinach salad . . . 113 

herring salad ...113 

Sally Lunn ....;. .151 

Salmis of wood- ' 

cocks '. 266 

Salmon with caper 

sauce 33 

Salsify, fried 137 

Salt cod, boiled.' 28 

Salt cod, with eggs, 26 

Salt pork 54-5 

Salt whiteflsh, 

boiled 28 

Sam Bal 268 

Sand tarts ; . 198" 

Saratoga potatoes .-.124 

Sardine salad 108 

Sandwiches, ham . . 84 
Sandwiches, oyster. 84 
Sausages, broiled .. 55 
Sausages, calf's 

liver 51 

Sausages, fried ... 57 
SAUCES ANDGBA- 
VIES FOR FISH 
AND MEATS ... 90 

chili sauce 90-91 

mint sauce 91 

curry, sauce. . . . . 91 
drawn butter 

sauce 91 

mustard saoiice. ., 91 



INDEX 



381 



tomato sauce. ... 92 

cream sauce 92 

maitre d'hotel 

sauce 92 

allemande, or 

•white sauce. . . 92 
parsley sauce.... 93 
chicken curry.... 93 

caper sauce 93 

egg sauce 93 

cardinal sauce... 94 
Bombay (East 

India) curry 

powder 04 

normandy sauce.. 94 
anchovy sauce ... 94 
old Zealand 

sauce 04 

truffle sauce 95 

jelly sauce 'for 

game 95 

celery sauce 95 

horseradish sauce 95 

oyster sauce 96 

a good sauce for 

steaks 06 

mushroom sauce . 96 
Uollandaise sauce 97 
currant sauce for 

meats 97 

French white 

sauce 97 

olive sauce 97 

oyster cocktail 

sauce 98 

kidney sauce. ... 98 
Epicurian sauce.. 98 
asparagus sauce. 98 

apple sauce 99 

bread sauce 99 

melted butter.... 99 
tartare sauce.... 100 
a cheap gravy for 

hashes, etc. . . . 100 
a good beef gravy 

for poultry, 

game, etc 100 

poivrade sauce . . 101 
Robert sauce (for 

steaks, etc.) . ..101 
cranberry sauce .101 



appropriate sauces 
for fish and 

meats 102 

SAUCES FOR PUD- ' 

DINGS 222 

sauce for suet 

pudding 222 

lemon sauce .... 

fruit sauce 

custard sauce. . . 
caramel sauce. . 

plain sauce 

wine sauce 

vinegar sauce.... 223 
brandy sauce.... 223 
cherry sauce (for 
sweet pud- 
dings) 224 

raspberry sauce 
(for simple 
puddings) . . . ,224 
Swetscheu' sauce. 224 
a good sauce for 
boiled pud- 
dings 22 J 

wine sauce 220 

foaming sauce . . . 225 

Savings 322 

Scalloped fish 31 

Scalloped mutton . . 65 
Scalloped onions . . . 124 
Scalloped oysters. .. 3.") 
Scalloped potatoes 123 

Scotch eggs 120 

Scotch baggish.... 62 

Scotch roll 43 

Scrambled eggs . . . 116 
Scrambled mutton.. 65 

Semolina soup 22 

Serviettes 291 

Sewing society cake.176 

Shad 261 

Shrub, raspberry ..244 
Sheeps' tongues a la 
Dominicaine ....2nr( 

SHELL FISn 34 

how to prepare. . 34 
oysters on the 

half shell 34 

oysters on a block 

of ice 34 

fried oysters .... 35 
broiled oysters... 35 



oysters roasted 

in the shell. ... 35 
scalloped oysters 

35-36 

oyster stew 36 

milk stew 36 

pickled oysters. . 36 

oyster pie 36 

oyster patties. ... 37 
fricasseed oysters 37 
lobster a la New- 
burgh 37 

boiled lobster. ... 37 
broiled lobster . . 38 
lobster cutlets... 38 
lobster curry .... 38 
soft shell crabs. . 38 
clam chowder ... 39 
lobster patties. . . 39 
buttered prawns . 39 
to choose lobsters 39 
broiled oysters ... 40 
crab croquettes.. 40 
jumbo fried oys- 
ters 40 

Sherbet, Lady Wash- 
ington cranberry..283 

Shrimp salad 105 

Shrimp soup 21 

Short cake crust... 190 
Short cake, fruit 

for 190 

Sideboard, The 290 

Silks and ribbons, to 

clean 348 

Silver cake 170 

Silver, care of ....349 
Silver plate, to 

clean 349 

Sirloin of beef 277 

Sliced green tomato 

pickle 229 

Slippery elm bark 

tea 257 

Smelts, fried 29, 30 

Smothered chicken . 69 
Snipes, fillets of. In 

cases 269 

Snowflake cake.... 169 

Snow eggs 119 

Snow pudding ... .217 
Soda biscuit, Wal- 
dorf 152 



382 



INDEX 



Soft shell crabs 38 

Souffle, omelet 118 

SOUPS 9 

stock 9 

barley soup 13 

coasomme soup . 10 

croutons 10 

consomme with 

egg 11 

consomme with 

tapioca 11 

creme celery. ... 11 
consomme with 

macaroni 11 

tomato soup .... 12 
cream tomato 

(mock bisque) 

soup_ 12 

cream of corn 

soup 12 

potato soup 12 

mutton broth ... la 

corn soup 13 

rice soup. 13 

gumbo soup ..... 14 
celery cream .... 14 

ox tail soup 14 

vegetable soup ... 15 
Madame Carville's 

vegetable soup. 15 

noodle soup 15 

mulligatawny 

soup 16 

pea soup 16 

"split pea soup. . . 16 
asparagus soup. 16-17 

okra soup 17 

creamed oyster. . 17 
bean soup, extra. 17 

lobster soup 17 

egg soup 17 

cream of chicken 

soup 19 

milk soup 18 

, mock turtle soup . 18 
clear mock turtle 

soup 19 

Julienne soup ... 19 
carrot and lentil 

soup 20 

cucumber soup ... 20 
hodge-podge .... 20 
shrimp soup 21 



onion ,soup 21 

spinach soup .... 22 

white soup 22 

semolina soup ... 22 
vegetable stock . . 22 

white stock 23 

flsh stock 23 

soup a la Busse . . 24 

veal soup 24 

the Czarina Rus- 
sian soup 24 

chicken bouillon . 24 
Sour cream dress- 
ing 112 

Sour milk pie 197 

Spaghetti, or maca- 
roni,, Italian home- 
made . . . ." 260 

Spaghetti, sailors' .260 
SJ)aghetti with 

meat . . ■. 259 

Spanish cream . . . .205 

Spanish stew 81 

Spanish toast .... .155 
Spanish tortillas . . 187 

Spiced beef 48 

Spice cake 164 

Spiced fruit, syrup 

for 236 

Spiced grapes 206 

S'piced tomatoes . . 229 
Spider corn cakes.. 153 

Spinach .....130 

Spinach salad 113 

Spinach dressed 

with cream 135 

Spinach soup 22 

Spinach with eggs, 

boiled soft 139 

Split pea soup 16 

Sponge cake 166" 

Sponge cake, bride's 

168 

Sponge cake, water.. 167 
Sponge cake, yel- 
low 176 

Sponge pudding . . .214 
Squash, baked, fried 
or mashed ..... .143 

Squash pie 194 

Stains, to remove . . 349 
Starch polish, to 

make 349 



Starch, to prepare.. 349 
Steaks, a good sauce 

for 96 

Steamed Indian 

pudding 218 

Steamed pork pud- -: 

ding 213: 

Steamed rice 131 

Stew, beef ... 42 

Stewed apples and 

custard 206 

Stewed carrots . . ,.133. 
Stewed chicken 

fried 71 

Skewered chicken 

livers 272 

Stewed cucumbers .134 , 
Stewed duck and 

peas 73 

Stewed flsh 27 

Stewed kidneys- ... 51 

Stewed oxtails 47 

Stewed pears ; 207 

Stewed rabbit 75 

Stewed red cabbage,133\i 
Stewed Spanish on- ' '. 

ions 135 . 

Stew, Irish 60, 263 

Stew, milk 36 

Stew, oyster 36 

Stew, Spanish .... 81 . 

Stock 9 

Strawberry syrup .248 
StrsCwberry water .247 

String beans. . . 127 

Stuffed tomatoes ... 1 28 
Stuffed turkey, gib- 
let sauce 67 

Succotash 131 

Suedoise of fruits 

. with jelly 287 

Suet pudding 212 

Sugar candy 238 

Sugar cookies 184 

Sugar required for 

canning 237 

Sultan cake 284 

Summer salad 112 

Sweetbreads 82 

Sweetbreads a la 

Colbert ....273 

Sweetbreads, 

creamed 269-270 ^ 



INDEX 



nss 



Sweetbreads, dress- 
ing for 269 

Sweet chow chow.. 22 7 
Sweet potatoes, 

baked 124 

Sweet potato ple...l9S 
gweet potatoes, 

cold 124 

Sweet potatoes, 

boiled 124 

Syrup for spiced 

fruit 2S6 

Table and house 

linen 322_ 

Table cloth, every- 
thing needed in 

laying 290 

Table cloths and 

napkins 291 

Table etiquette 292 

Table linen 350 

Tapioca, consomme 

with 11 

Tapioca cream ....212 

Tapioca ice 212 

Tapioca pudding ..211 
Tapioca pudding, 

with apples 220 

Tartare dressing ..112 

Tartare sauce 100 

Tar, to remove .... 350 

Tart paste 191 

Tarts, orange 198 

Tarts, sand 198 

Tea 243 

Tea, beef 250 

Tea cake 174 

Tea, iced .243 

Tea rusks 150 

Tea, Russian 243 

Teas, herb 256 

Tea, slippery elm 

bark 257 

Tea stains, to re- 
move 350 

Thanksgiving din- 
ner menu 318 

THE DINNER TA- 
BliB 289 

general rules . . . .289 
the side board. . .290 



everything n e e d- 
ed in laying a 
cloth 290 

table cloths and 
napkins 291 

the serviettes or 
table napkins.. 291 

table etiquette . . 292 

THE HOME 321 

economy 321 

warmth, light and 

clothing 322 

table and house 

linen 322 

tools .322 

repairs 322 

materials 322 

savings 322 

heat economy ... .323 
kitchen equip- 
ments 324 

Time required for 

digestion VII 

Time required to 

cook foods VI 

Tinware, to clean.. 351 

Tipsey cake 162 

Tip-top cake 169 

Toast 155 

Toast, beefsteak... 45 
Toast, kidneys on . . 63 
Toast, quail on... 71 -2 

Toast water 251 

Tamales, chicken. ..267 

Tomato catsup 229 

Tomato chutney ..229 
Tomatoes, baked . . 135 
Tomatoes, deviled .127 
Tomatoes, raw ....128 
Tomatoes, stuffed .128 
Tomatoes, spiced ..229 
Tomato pickles, 

green 228 

Tomato-sliced green 

pickle 229 

Tomato pickles, ripe 228 
Tomato preserves .228 

Tomato salad 103 

Tomato sauce .... 92 

Tomato soup 12 

Tongue, boiled .... 47 
Tongue salad 110 



Tongues, sheeps', a 
la Dominlcaine . . 265 

Tools 322 

Tortillas, Spanish.. 187 
Transparent puffs.. 188 
Transparent pie ... 195 

Tripe 81 

Trout 263 

Trout In jelly 89 

Truffle sauce 95 

Turkey, larded and 
roasted, with 

truffles 279 

Turkey, New Eng- 
land roast 68 

Turkey, roast .... 66 
Turkey, side dish 

of 280 

Turkey stuffed with 

chestnuts 68 

Turkey stuffed with 

oysters 67 

Turnips, mashed ... 127 

VBAD 49 

roast veal 49 

fricassee of veal. 49 
breast of veal 

stufFed 49 

veal loaf SO 

veal cutlet 

broiled -. 50 

veal cutlet fried. 5» 

veal curry 50 

boiled calf's head 50 
calf's liver sausa- 
ges 51 

broiled kidneys. .. 51 
stewed kidnsys. . 51 
veal and ham pie 52 
fricandeau of veal 52 
Veal croquettes ...273 
Veal, loin of, a la 

Montglas 270 

Veal soup 24 

Vegetable marrow, 

boiled 138 

Vegetable salad 106 

Vegetables, green . . .126 
Vegetable soup ... 15 
Vegetable stock.... 22 
Vegetables, to pre- 
serve for wintsr 
use 143 



'384 



INDEX 



VEGBTTABLBS 122 

boiled potatoes. ..122 
baked potatoes. ..122 
mashed potatoes. 122 
potatoes with 

meat 123 

potato cakes 123 

baked potato balls 

123 

fried potatoes . . . 123 ■ 
French fried pota- 
toes 123 

scalloped pota- 
toes 123 

boiled sweet po- 
tatoes 124 

baked sweet po- 
tatoes ,124 

cold sweet pota- 

tpes 124 

fried potatoes with 

eggs 124 

Saratoga potatoes.. 12"4 
scalloped onions.. 124 
creamed onions . . . 125 
fried onions ..... 125 
boiled cauliflower.. 125 
baked cauliflower.. 126 
fried egg plant. .126 
baked egg plant. 126 
green vegetables. 126 
boiled cabbage ... 126 
fried cabbage. .. .126 
cabbage cooked in 

milk 127 

cabbage dressing.. 127 
mashed turnips.. 127 

string beans 127 

deyiled tomatoes.127 
raw tomatoes. . ..128 
stufCed tomatoes . 128 

green peas 128 

Lima beans and 
shelled beans. .128 

asparagus 128 

green corn frit- 
ters ...129 

green com 129 

oyster plant 129 

mushrooms 129 

boiled hominy... 130 

spinach 130 

boiled rice 130 



parsnips (fried), 130 
parsnips (boiled) ..130 

succotash 131 

hominy croquettes. 131 

steamed rice 131 

rice croquettes. ..131 
potato croquettes.. 131 
boiled artichokes..l31 

boiled beets 132 

boiled Brussels 

sprouts 132 

stewed red cab- 
bage 133 

stewed carrots . . . 133 
baked mushrooms.. 134 
baked Spanish ^ 

onions 134 

stewed cucumbers .134 
a German method 
of cooking po- 
tatoes .134 

stewed Spanish 

onions 135 

spinach dressed 

with cream.. .. .135 
baked tomatoes . . 135 
boiled vegetable 

marrow 136 

boiled asparagus. 137 
fried salsify, or 

oyster plant. . .137 
artichokes with 

Dutch sauce... 138 
farced mushrooms..l38 
green peas with" 

croutons 139 

spinach with eggs 

boiled soft 139 

cauliflower with 

Dutch sauce... 140 

asparagus heads, , , 

a la Duchesse . 141 

truffles In napkin 

(a la Servlette)141 

butter beans 142 

mashed squash ..143 
baked squash ...143 
fried squash .... 143 

pilaffi 143 

to preserve vege- 
tables for win- 
ter use 143 

Venison, broiled. . . 77 



■Venison, mntton a la 65 

Venison, roast 76 

Venison, saddle, lard- 
ed and roasted. .^276 
Vienna rolls ......155 

Vinegar, raspberry. .244 

Vinegar sauce 223 

Wafers, walnut 200 

Waffles 154 

Waldorf salad 113 

Wall paper, to clean 351 
Walnut chocolate 

candy 239 

Walls, to repair. . . .351 
Watermelon cake . ..160 
Watermelon pickles.. 232 
Watermelon rind, 

candled 262 

Water sponge cake. .167 
Wedding cake. .162, 173 

Wedding dinner 320 

Welsh rarebit 81-82 

What cooks should 

know vlii 

Whey 252 

Whipped cream .... 206 

White cake 171-172 

White cream cake.. 172 
Whiteflsh, salt boiled 28 
White Mountain 

cake 166 

White sauce 92 

White sauce, French 97 

White soup 22 

White sponge cake 

166-167 

White stock 23 

Whitewash, to make..351 
Windows, to clean. ..352 

Wine cake 165 

Wine, egg 245 

Wine sauce . .223, 225 
Wine stains, to re- 
move 352 

Woodcocks, Salmis 

of 266 

Woodenware, care of 352 
Woodwork, care of. .352 
Wrinkles, to remove 353 

Yeast . . . r 145 

Yeast, railroad ....145 
Yeast, salt rising... 145 
Zwetschen sauce . . , 224 



