Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



■M 



'MOfsq p3duie;s )sb| 3;Bp 3i{; sjojsq jo 
uo p9iun)3J 3q pinoqs sfooq siq; 'du^ pioAB ox 



AHVHan IVDiaSFl 3NV1 



v: 5 -.■^■« 



ft:* 



, ..':\:f 



*o3 siiw aaxivw s.sDnHOH 

'sXgm snot:>i]ap 
(tuEiu ui p3AJ3S sq Xeiu puE ajBdsjd oj /se3 sj 

■S3SEaSip I^UIJSSJUI.OJJSES pus SJ3A3J 
'S3SE3STp 3ut:SEA\ JO ]II3'UJE3J1 3!]3W[p 3l[) UI p3Sn 

j(||njss3D3ns SI ji *p3iioiuodojd /[jadojd puE lusjuoD 
auiuiBjiA ui p3J]Ediuiun 'pajsaSipajd XijEiiJEd Supg 
■p33B aqj pue 
S3U33S3JBAU00 'spi]EAUi 'sj3i(50iu Buisjnu JOJ Japimq 
luaptys jsoiu E SB puE '3[|iiu s^jaijjoui oi jxau pooj 
-juBjui jOowejsijes jsotu 3t(i sb Xjn]U30 pjiqj.auo j3ao 
JOJ asn Sil p35jopu3 SEi( uoissDjojd lEDipaui sql JEIJ] 
ijans 3JE ,,s^^i3]|jojj JO jf]i|iqEipj puE j(ir]Bn5 3i[j_ 

xonaoHd 3ixax3ia 



STVXldSOH n 
'SNVIDISAHJ 

'sNVii-iiaia 

JO S3I01I3 9>(X 



AxnvnO MAiONa ao 
aovH3VJ avKiorao anx si sihx 

3NinN39 3H1 139 




as 

iniiaud ■,9M1«d oooiwni Jnaid •Suiiuk bi -jijnbaj uodn papjiiuo} 
aq |[i« U[dmia put unua);! |njMD anuy uo^I 9i|i ot Su))^ ^g 

EES J3J[!J "i^AV I"^nTA 

«S ausioijJo-odiA 

I« (MiuBdiuoJ iiiJmniiBai jd|*bx) bmhukiioj*iix 

eeS (JSQijaua) luopiiaang |B3iSjng OBOI 

«S laiiofldns iBOiBiopqv P"* -"pu!a .."""is.. 

*IS --saMiwia HI snoiisinO iioni«!'u»''a pjsofl Bing 

t» ■■"■' I!0 l«Jao!n 'aiBiBSis 3u;v 

'anqdsaqd mnipog -ajBQoqjnia nmipos ■[iq jojibo— s.qqiftg 

»is r,"'\ *3i"i»ia 

0»S ■■■■■-"■ "-■■■■ :■ saiiajaid ibjipejj Elsinej 

^l ,'„",".'.'.'.'.".'.'.'.'.. .'. ''"pa l»Fa iBq-puBH »,»a«BJ 

WS'BIS XiiitSsa .smppaia <,a^iiid 

fos :::::::::::::::::: "bo uo,,,m^mco .iB^jnor .sas^nn 

«; , .. : iiin=[EX paiBJog s.aam.i|.i 

OK (Mo^) raSMiaiQ P [buobk XJoiBjoqiT 

%l :-.:.:::::::::::;:::::;::;::;:::;::::;::. "^g^^ 

VES «»(1I3SV UOlimilSHI 

6KS -■■-■- wionjopoi 

21* :;::::;■■:::; : «i"!i!»!a anutsad .i«,ds<.H 

8ZS nnjiifl auiOH 

9i.t '.'.".'.'.'. '. 1"H -"••a Big-puBH 

06» tNiqdiaiiilod^H "li P anjf^ s,«o[|i^ 

21? ;;!;;■.■;■;'. -■■■■■■■•■(Moa) *i™»d av i^wi 

fil ... ("OH) "nSX JfAV "■ 'pood ^ip.Lia*a 

S" .... -tjnisaa .suemwja 

f" . !non«OJ ™,.dsoH auuT6i.a su>!m3!a 

tis !'.!!!"" [oidi(|oioa 

•SS -»q"!M 3"Jiaa|a ailiMooinv 

=sanddns sno3^^v^^a^SrM 

«f* ;;;;; -""ns ww *no "tio— '.itunBs 

I" "[pa aynna ,.*Jo"S,. 

JiJ »p*oj BuinBa piojuma 

"I ::::;:;::: ap™-auioH -sjb '.aAjaKuj 

"■ tpionoidaj pinftiT 

*IS auiiflBdojaB-j 

SJI ■►??..■;:.■.■::.■::.■::::;.":;:; ■■■".p«od'n^"iD'-?i'oH 

;!| aiBqdMHj p.ay ''.P-'°J*«»H 

"I spioioqsmjH 

ill 1«".\ s.nunuqMjaij 

IJI '.'.'. .'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'^™ j^"^ pu^Ja ojtiQ 

sSi "Hprwa '.iTO 

|IS Doiimoa «>13 s.meqn^ng 

jj> : ; . ™fO .'•'^yi.'l'Ja ».J»i<ff 

iS7isJiaj.n qkV suooj 

-mOttX-jpjT9 3U1 in pOB 'uaVtuolB UlTBinQ 

•f '"I •pmiMmoB snoui* aqi m pasn ajs i«iii enoiimcdajd aui lo .Ciund 
•ip mrql noiioamt MoiSna ajoui pinoqs .i3u|« ijdTnnt ou ti 3iiu,' 
„pooj jnimiTOq pnB ajnd uodn' sposdjp uonuinu pooy,, 

aS^nN— KVI3ISA Hd— 3 NO H— TViHSOH 

sanddns ox xaotii 



Girt 

San Francisco County 
Medical Society 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 
WITH REFERENCE TO 
DIET IN HEALTH AND 
DISEASE 4r 0- 0^ ir 




PRACTICAL 


DIETETICS 


WITH REFERENCE TO 



DIET IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 

BY 

ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 

GraduatCt Department of Household Arts, State Normal Schobl, 

Framingham, Mass. 

L4:e Instructor in Dietetics, Bellevue Training School for Nurses, 
Bellevue Hospital, New York City. 

Former Instructor at Mount Sinai, Hahnemann, and the Flower 

Hospital Training Schools for Nurses, New York City; 

Lakeside, St. Mary's, Trinity, and Wisconsin Training 

Schools for Nurses, Milwaukee, Wis.; St. Joseph's 

Hospital, Chicago, 111.; St. Vincent de Paul 

Hospital, Brockville, Ontario, Canada. 

THIRTEENTH EDITION 
REVISED 




A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 

Mount Vernon, New York 
1920 



Set up, electrot3rped, printed, and copyrighted, June, 1903 

Reprinted July, 1904, February^ 1905, October, 1906, and November* 1908 

Revised, reset, and recopy righted December, 19 10 

Reprinted August 191 2, October, 19 13 

January, 19 15, January, 19 16 

Revised and recopyrighted 

February, 1917, July, 1918, January, 1920 



Copyright, 1903, 1904, 190s, 1910, 1916, 1917, 1918, 1920, by 
ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 



Entered at Stationers' Hall London 
All rights reserved 



Y,' 't -^ 



iKnboee ^afll^ life fe a 
I>le00ind to bumanitig 



95434 




PREFACE TO THE THIRTEENTH EDITION 

This work has been revised wherever necessary to incorpo- 
rate the latest results of research in dietetics and embraces all 
the latest diets of leading physicians and hospitals. 



PREFACE TO THE ELEVENTH EDITION 

_ The continuous demand for this work since its last complete 
revision in 1910 has resulted in the publication of successive 
editions almost annually until the time became ripe for an- 
other complete revision. The present edition, while preserv- 
ing as far as possible the original plan of the worjt, incor- 
porates a large amount of new material in harmony with the 
latest developments in tlje science and art of dietetics. Many 
sections on the treatment of the siek have been entirely rewrit- 
ten to conform with present hospital practice. 

The author takes this opportunity to acknowledge with 
thanks the valuable advice and assistance given by Mary 
Swartz Rose, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Department of Nu- 
trition, Teachers' College, Columbia University, New York 
City. 

For suggestions and permiBsion to use certain diets the au- 
thor wishes to express her hearty appreciation to : 

Dr. Frederick M. Allen, Physician to the Hospital of the 
Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, New York. 

Dr. Herbert S. Carter, Consulting Physician to the Lincoln 
Hospital, Associate in Medicine at Columbia University and 
Assistant Visiting Physician to the Presbyterian Hospital, 
New York. 

Dr. Warren Coleman, Pro-fessor of Clinical Medicine and 
I Applied Pharmacology, Cornell University, Medical College. 
Visiting Phyaician to Bellevue Hospital, New York. 




viii PREFACE 

Dr. L. A. Conner, Professor of Clinical Medicine, Cornell 
University Medical College, Attending Physician, New York 
Hospital. 

Dr. B. B. Crohn, Assistant Chief of Gastro-Enterological 
Clinic, Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York. 

Dr. Eugene F. Dubois, Medical Director of Bellevue Hos- 
pital, New York. 

Dr. Max Einhom, Professor of Medicine, New York Post 
Graduate School and Hospital. Physician to Post Graduate 
and German Hospital, New York. 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Professor of Pediatrics, College of 
Physicians and Surgeons. Physician to Babies and Foundling 
Hospitals, New York. 

Dr. T. C. Janeway, Professor of Medicine, Johns Hopkins 
University. Physician to Johns Hopkins Hospital, Balti- 
more, Maryland. 

Dr. Elliott P. Joslin, Assistant Professor of Medicine, Har- 
vard University. Physician Mass. General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts. 

Dr. C. C. Kerley, Professor of Parliatrics, Polyclinic Med- 
ical School and Hospital. Physician to Nurses and Childs 
Hospital, New York. 

Dr. L. E. LaFetra, Physician to Bellevue and Children's 
Hospitals, New York. 

Dr. H. 0. Mosenthal, Associate Professor of Medicine, 
Johns Hopkins University. Physician to Johns Hopkins 
Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland. 

Dr. L. C. Schroeder, Physician to Bellevue and Children's 
Hospitals, New York. 

Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Emeritus Professor of Clinical 
Medicine, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts. 

Bellevue Hospital, New York. New York Post Graduate 
Hospital. Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massa- 
chusetts. 

Alida Frances Pattee. 

New York, February, 1917. 



PREFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION 

The very gratifying demand for this work has necessitated 
tlie preparation of a sixth edition. Advantage has been 
taken of this opportunity to revise the book and incorporate, 
as far as space allows, the latest results of research in die- 
tetics. To meet the growing tendency of physicians to pre- 
scribe the esact fuel value of a diet, the total energy value 
of each recipe has been calculated wherever data aa to com- 
position of materials used arc available, or the quantities 
of materials used are fairly constant. A table has also been 
introduced in which the food value of the materials used in 
the recipes is given. This will be useful in computing other 
food combinations, and in calculating the amount of protein, 
fat or carbohydrates in any dietary, whenever required, with- 
out the tedious mathematical processes usually involved in 
Buch operations. 

It is hoped that a revised classification of food principles, 
greater emphasis on the value of mineral matter in the diet, 
and fuller discussion of the fundamental principles of nutri- 
tion, will add much to the usefulness of the hook. 

In the introduction are presented outlines showing the re- 
quirements in dietetics of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Kurses, and the contents of the book have been 
rearranged to correspond directly with these requirements. 
This will materially aid the dietitian in arranging the course 
of study for the nurse so as to prepare her adequately for her 
State Examinations. 

Many years of experience as an instructor in dietetics in 
hospitals seem to the author to demonstrate that the "recipe 
book." so-called, should not be separate from the volume 
OD "theory." Both theoretical and practical work should be 



X PREFACE 

treiSited together, otherwise, while the subjects are naturally 
cUtmly allied^ the young student becomes confused and is not 
flpt to &pply the theory to the practice. In this book she 
eaoDot read a recipe without having her attention called to 
iU function in nutrition. Furthermore, for convenience 
HAke, thie two should be combined in one book of moderate 
iize* One hundred and fifty pages have been added to this 
edition with but little increase in bulk. 

I take pleasure in acknowledging the valuable assistance 
rendered by Dr. Mary D. Swartz Eose, Assistant Professor 
of Houjsehold Arts, Teachers College, Columbia Universiiy, 
New York, in the preparation of this edition; also again to 
expresi my thanks for valuable material used in the book to 
Mm. Ellen H. Richards, Dr. W. Oilman Thompson, Dr. Max 
Einbom, Dr. Henry Koplik, Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Dr. Louis 
Ht&rr, Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Dr. 
Elliott P. Joslin, Dr. Harry W. Goodall and Dr. Maynard 
Lfldd# 

AuDA Frances Patteb. 

New York, December, 1910. 

Extract Fboh Pbetace to Futth EomoN 
I have been particularly pleased to see " Practical Dietet- 
ics ^ accepted as a text-book by so many educational and other 
authorities. Thus it is to be found in all hospitals of the 
United States Army ; it has been recomlnended for use by all 
the various State Boards of Examiners of Nurses that have 
thug far been appointed ; it has been adopted by the military 
authorities in Canada for the Permanent Schools of Instruc- 
tion for the Militia, and it has also been added to the Author- 
ized Text Book list of the New York City and Boston Public 
Schools. 

New York, November, 1908. 



PEEFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION" 

The very cordial reception of the first edition of Practical 
Dietetics has encouraged a second presentation. 

In the preparation of the second issue the original matter 
has been thoroughly revised, and important additions made. 

For valuable material I am indebted to the following 
physicians, hospitals and publishers, and gratefully acknowl- 
edge their assistance and kind permission accorded by them 
to quote their several diets. 

Dr. W. Oilman Thompson, Professor of Medicine in the 
Cornell University Medical College in New York City and 
visiting physician to the Presbyterian and Bellevue Hos- 
pitals : 

Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the 
New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, vis- 
iting physician to the German Dispensary: 

Dr. Henry Koplik, attending physician Mount Sinai Hos- 
pital, ex-president of the American Paediatric Society: 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Professor of Diseases of Children 
in the College of Physicians and Surgeons (Columbia Uni- 
versity), attending physician at the Babies^ Hospital and 
Foundling Hospital, New York : 

Dr. Louis Starr, Consulting Paediatrist to the Maternity 
Hospital, Philadelphia; late Clinical Professor of Diseases 
of Children in the Hospital of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania : 

Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Professor of Clinical Medicine 
in Harvard University, visiting physician Massachusetts Gen- 
eral Hospital: 

Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Instructor in Theory and Prac- 
tice at Harvard Medical School, visiting physician Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital: 

xi 



xii PREFACE 

Dr. Nathan Smith Davis, late Dean Northwestern TJni- 
versity Medical School, Chicago: 

Bellevue Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Presby- 
terian Hospital, the Society of Lying-in Hospital (New 
York), Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston: 

D. Appleton & Co., Blakiston & Co., William Wood & 
Co., and the publisher of the Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette: 

And sincere thanks are due Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards (In- 
structor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology) for aid and information, also for permission to 
quote from the Eumf ord Kitchen Leaflets. 

A. F. Pattee. 

New York, July, 1904. 



PEEFACE TO THE FIEST EDITION 

As instructor of dietetics at various hospitals I have con- 
stantly felt the need of a simple manual and text-book for 
the use of the nurse in the classroom. 

None could be found which fulfilled the requirements as 
to simplicity, brevity, and exactness, with reference to dietetic 
treatment in disease. 

This same need has been expressed by mothers and nurses 
outside of the hospital. 

In the following pages I have endeavored to meet this 
need by giving the result of knowledge gained during the 
past eight years of practical classwork experience in hospitals 
of different cities. 

The preparation of food is a science as well as an art, the 
chemistry of which is as precise as the chemistry of the 
laboratory. When we are willing to be as exact and care- 
ful in this work as we are in chemical experiments, our suc- 
cess will become a certainty. No other technical art can, with 
80 little practical knowledge, go as far in simplifying that 
which is otherwise complicated and laborious, or do more 
toward accomplishing that which is a chief result of all 
science — adding to the comfort and happiness of the human 
race. 

A. F. Pattee. 

New York, July, 1903. 



• • • 



INTRODUCTION 

In response to the many requests of Superintendents of 
Training Schools and Dietitians for an outline of the various 
State Board Requirements in Dietetics, I quote with permis- 
sion the given outlines and courses of study in dietetics as 
arranged by the American Hospital Association, and the va- 
rious State Boards of Examiners of Nurses. These questions 
I have printed as a Supplement to Pattee's " Practical Die- 
tetics " and a copy is given complimentary with each " Prac- 
tical Dietetics ^^ purchased. Answers to all questions are to 
be found in this book. Requirements of other States will be 
added to this Supplement as each new edition of Pattee^s 
" Practical Dietetics " is issued. 

These outlines will prove of assistance to the Superintend- 
ent and Dietitian in arranging the course of study for the 
nurse, and will also prove suggestive to the nurse in prepar- 
ing for her State Examinations. 

Through the kindness of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Nurses I am also able to quote the examination 
questions of various States in this Supplement. 

If this Supplement (or separate booklet) is not received 
when copy of "Practical Dietetics^' (13th ed.) is purchased 
notify the bookdealer who filled your order and he should 
give you a copy gratis. If he does not have one on hand and 
did not receive same with his order he should take up the 
matter with the firm from whom he ordered the books. 



XIV 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 
INTBODUCTION XV 

(State Boards' Requirements in Dietetics and Examination Questions 
are given in Supplement (booklet) form, complimentary with 
each copy of Pattee's Practical Dietetics purchased.) 

PABT I 

PEINCIPLES OF NUTEITION AND FOOD 

PBEPAEATION 

CHAPTEB 

I Food 3 

Function of Food — Definition of Food — Classi- 
fication of Food (a) According to Function, (b) 
According to Source, (c) According to Chemical 
Composition: Carbohydrates (Sugar and Starch), 
Fats and Oils, Protein, Mineral Matter, Water, 
Vitamines — The Essentials of an Adequate Diet — 
Food Accessories or Adjuncts. 

n Nutrition i . . 25 

Digestion : — Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — 
Mineral Matter — Water. Resiun^ of Digestion — 
Factors Determining Rate of Digestion. Absobption : 

— Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — Mineral Matter 

— Water. Metabolism : — Protein — Fats — Carbo- 
hydrates. EXCBETION. 

in Food Values 43 

The Balance of Energy and Nitrogen Equilibrium, 
The Energy Value of Food — Energy Requirements of 
the Body — Tables Showing the Nutritive Value of 
Food — Table Showing the Nutritive Value of Food 
According to Individual Serving. 

IV Feeding the Sick 72 

General Rules — Physicians' Directions — Feeding 

XV 



xvi CONTENTS 

CHAFTEB PAGE 

in Acute Disease — Evidences of Digestion — The Ap- 
petite — Punctuality in Serving — Quality and Quan- 
tity of Food — Temperature of Food — Details in 
Feeding — Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth — Time 
and Position for Feeding — Sleep and Feeding — 
Feeding the Helpless Patient — Feeding the Uncon- 
scious Patient — Forced Feeding — Nasal Feeding — 
Use of the Stomach Tube — Rectal Feeding — Use of 
Alcohol in the Sickroom — Keeping Ice in the Sick- 
room — Disinfecting Utensils. 

V The Teat 85 

Attractive Arrangement of a Tray. How to Serve 
(Greneral Rules). 

VI Methods of Cooking and Cabe of Food 88 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Cooked Food 

— Success in Cooking — Objective Points in Cooking 

— Effect of Heat — Principles Groverning the Choice 
of a Method of Cooking Any Food — Principal Cook- 
ing Processes — The Object of each Cooking Process — 
Cooking Utensils — Blending Ingredients — Method 
of Working — Ice Box and Contents — Care of Food 

— Preserving Foods — Concentration — Predigestion 
of Food — Adulteration of Food. 

VII Measures and Weights 98 

Table of Measures and Weights — Apothecaries 
Weight — Apothecaries Measure — Approximate Meas- 
ures — Metric System — Measures of Volume — Meas- 
ure of Weig'ht — Table of Equivalents — Table for Pre- 
paring Percentage Solution — Thermometry. 

PART II 

PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES 

OF NUTRITION 

RECIPES 

VIII Be>'ebaqes 109 

Acid Beverages 110 

Recipes 110 



CONTENTS xvii 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Albuminous Beverages 118 

Recipes 118 

Starchy Beverages 124 

Recipes 124 

Miscellaneous Beverages 127 

Tea 127 

Recipes 131 

Coflfee 128 

Recipes 131 

Chocolate 129 

Recipes 134 

Cocoa 129 

Recipes . . . ; 133 

Special Non-Nutritive Beverages 136 

Recipes 136 

IX Animal Foods 138 

Meat 140 

Recipes 149 

Poultry and Game 152 

Recipes 153 

Fish 159 

Recipes 162 

Fish Sauces 165 

Recipes 165 

Shell Fish 166 

Oysters 166 

Recipes 169 

Clams 168 

Recipes 172 

Eggs 175 

Recipes 179 

Milk and Milk Products 184 

Recipes 193 

Sweetbreads 200 

Recipes 201 

Gelatin 203 

Recipes 204 

Beef Preparations . . .' 212 

Beef Juioe 212 

Recipes ^\A. 



xviii CONTENTS 

CHAPTEB PAGE 

Beef Tea 213 

Recipes 215 

Raw Beef 214 

Recipes 217 

Meat Broths 217 

Recipes 219 

Meat Jellies 217 

Recipes 221 

Soups . 223 

Recipes 223 

Soup Accompaniments 229 

Recipes 229 

X Vegetable cb Plant Foods 231 

Cereals 233 

Gruels 236 

Recipes 238 

Breakfast Foods 235 

Recipes 242 

Starchy Jellies 244 

Recipes 244 

Macaroni 245 

Recipes 245 

Bread 247 

Recipes 250 

Toast 255 

Recipes 256 

Sandwiches 258 

Recipes 259 

Crackers and Wafers 260 

Recipes 260 

Vegetables 261 

Recipes 265 

Vegetable Sauces 271 

Recipes 271 

Salads 272 

Recipes 274 

Salad Dressings 272 

Recipes 273 



CONTENTS rix 

CHAPTER. PAQE 

Fruits 276 

Recipes 279 

Nut3 283 

Fungi and Alg» 284 

JEI NuTBiTiouB Dessebts 288 

Hot and Cold Desserts 286 

Soft CustarJa 287 

recipes 287 

Baked Custards 288 

Recipes 288 

Wliipa and Souffles 290 

Recipes . . 201 

Junket 293 

Recipes 293 

Cornstarch Pudding or Blanc Msnge 296 

Recipes 2B5 

Rice PuddingB 297 

Recipes 297 

Tapioca 300 

Recipes 300 

Bread Puddings 302 

Recipes 302 

Cracker Puddings 304 

Recipes 304 

Pudding Sauces 305 

Hecipos 306 

Frozen Desserts 308 

Ice Cream 306 

Recipes 307 

Sherttet 306 

Recipes 312 



Bccip«s . 



CONTENTS 



PART III 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES — DIET IN DISEASE 
— DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

OHAPTEB PAOK 

XIII Hospital Dietabies 323 

General Types of Diet Used in Hospitals: Liquid 
or Fluid Diets — Foods to be Used, Low Fluid Diet — 
Fluid Diet Without Nutritive Value (Einhorn) — 
Fluid Diet with Low Nutritive Value (Einhom) — 
Medium Fluid Diet (Half Ration) Einhorn — Full 
Fluid Diet (Full Ration) Einhorn — Full Fluid Diet 
(Suitable for Typhoid Fever) Kinnicutt — High 
Calory Fluid Diet — Milk Diet (Bellevue Hospital) — 
Modified Milk Fluid Diet ( Coleman ) — Soft or Semi- 
Solid Diet: Foods to be Used. Typical Menu for a 
Soft or Semi-Solid Diet (Rose) — Liquid and Soft 
Solid Diet (Massachusetts General Hospital) — 
Light or Convalescent Diet: Diet for Convalescents 
(Einhorn) — General Convalescent Diet (New York 
Hospital) — Special Convalescent Diet (New York 
Hospital) — Regular House Diet (New York Hospi- 
tal) — General House Diet (New York Hospital). 

DIET IN DISEASE 

Xrv Diet in Fevebs and Infectious Diseases . . . 334 

Diet in Fever in General — Diet in Convalescence 
from Fever (Thompson) — Typhoid Fever — High 
Caloric Feeding — Modified Milk Fluid Diets for 
Typhoid Fever ( Coleman ) — A Soft Diet for Typhoid 
Convalescence (Coleman) — A Mixed Fluid Diet for 
Typhoid Fever (Kinnicutt) — Foods from which a 
Typhoid Mixed Diet may be Chosen (Rose) — Ton- 
silitis and Quinsy (Thompson) — Diphtheria (Thomp- 
son) — Pneumonia (Thompson) — Broncho-Pneumo- 
nia (Thompson) — Mumps (Thompson) — Whooping 
Cough (Thompson) — Diet in Tuberculosis, Menus for 
Tuberculosis (Loomis Sanitarium). 

XV Diet in Disobdebs of Nutbition 356 

Diet in Diabetes — Dr. Joslin's Preparatory Treat- 
ment, The Fasting Period, Carbohydrate Feeding, A 



OHAPn 

I 
I 



Diabetic Chart (Dr. Elliott P. Joslin) - 
Diet for Diabetes under Fasting Treatment; ObEerva- 
tioii Diet, Fast until Sugar Free, Carbohydrate Teat, 
Mixed Diet, The Fast Day — Carbohydrate Test 
Menus — Mixed Diet Men ua ^ Typical Menus used in 
Diabetes — Foods Arranged Approximately Accord- 
ing to Content of Car he hydrates (Joslin) — Fooda 
Arranged in Order of their Carbohydrate Content 
from lowest to highest (Alien) — Litiiemia or Excesa 
of Uric Acid — Diet for Uric Acid Gravel and Acute 
Nephritis ( MaasachuBetts General Hospital) — Diet 
in Gout (Roae) — A Day's Dietary Suggested for 
Chronic Gout (Robs) — Diet in Oxaluria (Masaa- 
chusetts General Hospital) — Diet in Obesity (Mass- 
achusetts General Hospital). 

Diet in the DiBEAsEa of the Stomach .... 3 

Acute Gastritis ( Einhom ) — Chronic Gastritis 

(Einbom) — Diet in Gastric Hyperacidity (Einhom) 

— Ulcer of the Stomach (Einhorn) —Outline of Diet 
in Gastric Ulcer (Einbom) — Diet for Active Ulcer 
of the Stoniach or Duodenum ( Maasacbu setts General 
Hospital) — The Lenhartz Diet^ — ^Convalescent Gas- 
tric Diet (Janeway). 

Diet in Intestinal Diseases 3 

Diet in Dyspepsia — Diet in Constipation (Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital ) — Diet in Diarrhea — 
Dysentery (Thompson) — Diet for Ulcerative Colitis 
and Dysentery (Massachusetts General Hospital) — 
Chronic Dysentery (Thompson) — Appendicitis 
(Thompson) —Schmidt's Intestinal Test Diet — Test 
Diet for Studying the Function of the Alimentary 
Tract I Massachusetts General Hospital) — Diet for 
Intestinal Putrefaction (Einhorn). 

XVIII Diet ik Disease of the GENiTO-URiNABr System . . 4 
Acute Bright's Disease — Chronic Bright's Disease 

— Standard Parenchymatous Nephritis Diet (Now 
York Post Graduate Hospital) — Standard Intersti- 
tial Nephritis Diet (New York Post Graduate Hos- 
pital) — Diet in Uremia (New York Post Graduate 
Hoapital) — Albuminuria, (Tliompson). 



I 



xxii COXTEXTS 

CBAm Fi 

XIX Dor nr Hiscculaseous AwwEcnasa 411 

Xenroos Diflorders — Diet in Cuieer and Skin Dis- 
eaMS (Xev Y<irk Skin and Ckneer Ho^ital) — 
I>i«tetie 3ifanagement of Smgieal Cases — Diet Alter 
Laparotomjy Orariotomyy etc. (Thompson). 

DIET IX SPECIAL COXDITIOXS 

XX McrrHEBHC»OD 417 

Diet in Pregnancy — Vomiting of Pr^nancy — 
(Vomiting of Seasickness) Hiompson — Diet for the 
Mother after Labor — Diet for a Xnrsing Mother or 
Wet Nurse (Thompson). 

XXI IXFA5T Fkzdivq 422 

Process of Digestion — Breast Feeding — Xnrsing 
Mother — Technique of Xursing — Regularity in 
Nurfting — How Often to Feed — Supplementary 
Feeding — What to Feed — How Much to Feed — 
Capacity of Baby's Stomach — Weight — How to 
Weigh the Baby — Artificial Feeding — Diflference in 
Composition Between Human and Cow's Milk — Milk 

— How to Feed the Baby — What to Feed — General 
Principles of Milk Modifications — The Character of 
the milk may be Altered, Chemically — What Dilu- 
iUm to Use — Modified Whole Milk — Top Milk 
Method in Infant Feeding (L. Emmett Holt, M.D.), 
Formulas from Whole (4%) Milk, Top Milk Modifi- 
cation, Schedule for Feeding Healthy Infants During 
the First Year, Simple Method of Calculating a Milk 
Formula on a Basis of Caloric Requirements (Holt) 

— Preparation of the Food; Home Modification — 
Caro of Bottles — How to Give the Baby the Bottle — 
Normal Feeding — Underfeeding — Overfeeding — 
Drinking Water — Feeding of Older Infants — Wean- 
ing. 

XX n TiiK Fekdino of Youno Childben 455 

0<»noral Rules for Feeding Young Children — Table 
of (/omparison, Food Required by Child and Man — 
Table Showing Increase of Calories Required for a 
Growing Child — Dietaries for Young Children — 
Ooneral Principles of Feeding Sick Children. 



CONTENTS xxiii 

GHAFTEB PAGE 

XXni Diet fob the Adolescent — Diet fob the Sedentaby 464 
— Diet fob the Aged — Avebage Weight of old Men 
AND Women — Stmonds's Table of Height and Weight 
FOB Men at Diffebent Ages — Stmonds's Table of 
Height and Weight fob Women at Diffebent Ages 

Index to Recipes 473 

Genebal Index 491 



PART I 

PRINCIPLES OP NUTRITION AND FOOD 

PREPARATIONS 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



CHAPTER I 

FOOD 

Functions of Food 

The human body may be compared to a machine which is 
capable of transforming energy supplied in the form of fuel 
into other forms of energy, i.e., muscular work and heat. As 
the automobile engine bums gasoline for fuel so the human 
engine burns food. 

Any machine in use is constantly wearing out, requiring the 
renewal of parts. In the body material for building new 
tissue and repairing worn out tissue is furnished by food. 

Abundance of fuel and new parts are not all that is neces- 
sary for the running of an engine. Without the proper lubri- 
cants the machine can not work. Oil serves this purpose for 
the automobile. The lubricants which insure the smooth 
working of all parts of the human engine, which "regulate 
the body processes '^ are supplied by food. 

Thus the chief functions of food are : 

(1) to yield energy 

(2) to build body substance 

(3) to regulate body processes 

Definition of Food, Foods are substances which when 
taken into the body supply the necessary elements for promot- 
ing its growth and replacing its waste, yield energy for mus- 
cular work and heat and regulate the body processes. 

3 



4 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 

(a) According to function 

(1) Fuel foods or sources of energy 

(a) Carbohydrates 

(1) Sugars 

(2) Starches 

(b) Fats 

(c) Proteins 

(2) Body builders or tissue formers 

(a) Proteins 

(b) Mineral salts 

(c) Water 

(3) Regulators of body processes 

(a) Mineral salts 

(b) Water 

(c) Vitamines 

(b) According to source 

(1) Animal 

(2) A^egetable 

(3) Mineral 

(c) According to chemical composition'^ 

(1) Organic 

(a) Nitrogenous 

( 1 ) Proteins 

(b) Non-nitrogenous 

(1) Carbohydrates 

(2) Fats 

(2) Inorganic 

(a) Mineral salts 

(b) Water 

CABBOHYDBATES 

Definition, Carboliyd rates are foodstuffs which contain 
carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The hydrogen and oxygen are 

1 Tbe chemical coTni)osition of vitamines is still uncertain, hence they arc not 
included in this clasRification. 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 



nsnally present in the same proportions as in the water mole- 
cule, (HgO). These compounds have therefore been named 
carbo-hydrates. The term "carbohydrates^^ covers all sim- 
ple sugars and all substances which can be converted into 
simple sugars by hydrolysis. 

Source. Carbohydrates come from the vegetable kingdom 
almost entirely. There are a few exceptions such as glyco- 
gen and milk sugar. They form the chief constituent of 
roots, tubers and seeds. Important sources of carbohydrates 
for human use are cereals, potatoes, rice, tapioca, sago, sugar 
(cane, beet and maple), honey and sweet fruits. 

Classification. Carbohydrates include the monosaccharides 
such as dextrose or grape sugar, the disaccharides like sucrose 
or cane sugar, and the polysaccharides such as starch, dextrin 
and glycogen. (Glycogen is sometimes called animal starch). 

The term " monosaccharide ^^ means that the sugar molecule 
contains only one sugar group or molecule. All such are 
called "simple sugars.^^ The structure of the monosaccha- 
rides is represented by the formula CeHiaOe- The " disaccha- 
rides ^^ are sugars which on hydrolysis by enzymes or by boil- 
ing with dilute acids split to two molecules of simple sugar. 
Their chemical formula is C12H22O11 and their relation to the 
monosaccharides is shown thus : 



C.^H^Ai + H^O >-CeH,20e + CeH^^O 



6 



The "polysaccharides^' are complex molecules which can be 
broken down into many molecules of simple sugar. Their 
formula is (CeHioOg)!. 



Carbohydrates 



Monosaccharides 
CeHijOe 



Disaccharides 
OwHmOu 



Polysaccharides 
(C«HioOb)x 



Grape Sugar (Dextrose or Glucose) 
Fruit Sugar (Levulose) 

(A mixture of dextrose and levulose is 
called Invert Sugar. Honey is the 
best example in nature) 

Cane Sugar "^ 

Beet Sugar > Sucrose 

Maple Sugar J 

Milk Sugar (Lactose) 

Malt Sugar (Maltose) 

'' Starch 

Dextrin 

Glycogen 

Gums 
^ Cellulose 



1 



6 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Function, Carbohydrates when burned in the body yield 
energy in the form of work or heat. Carbohydrate in excess 
of the body's immediate needs for fuel is stored as glycogen, 
chiefly in the liver but also in the muscles and other organs. 
The body's capacity to store glycogen is limited and if more 
carbohydrate is eaten the surplus is changed into fat. 

Sugars 

Sugars are soluble carbohydrates with a more or less sweet 
taste. When heated to a high temperature they form cara- 
mel. Dietetics is especially concerned with grape sugar 
(glucose or dextrose), milk sugar (lactose) and cane sugar 
(sucrose). 

DEXTROSE (OB GLUCOSE) 

Description. Dextrose occurs in ilature as a syrup. It 
is much less sweet than cane sugar. Other sugars have to be 
changed to this form before the body can use them. 

Source. It is found throughout the vegetable kingdom, 
chiefly in fruit and plant juices. It is especially abundant 
in grapes ^ of which it often constitutes 20 per cent or more 
of the weight of the fresh fruit and considerably more than 
half of the solid matter. Commercially it is made from 
starch by hydrolysis with acids. 

Use in the Diet. Dextrose is a fuel food in a very readily 
absorbed form. Taken in large quantities it is liable to fer- 
ment or flood the system with sugar too rapidly, but as nat- 
urally present in sweet fruits or in its artificial form in small 
quantities along with other foodstuffs it is a very economical 
source of energy. Being less sweet than cane sugar, when 
it is used, to sweeten other foods a larger amount must be 
taken. 

LACTOSE 

Lactose (milk sugar) occurs in the milk of all mammals. 
It is less sweet and much less soluble than cane sugar and 
does not readily ferment. Because of its mild flavor and be- 




CARBOHYDRATES 7 

cause it is lesa irritating to the digestive tract than sucrose it 
is widely used in feeding infanta and invalids where it is 
a valuable source of fuel. 



Description. Pure cane sugar is chemically tlie same as 
beet sugar. Maple sugar would not be different from ordi- 
nary sugar if it were sufliciently purified to remove the fla- 
voring matter. By boiling for a long time or in the presence 
of acids (whether naturally in the fruit or added to it) cane 
sugar is changed to invert sugar which is a mixture of equal 
parts of dextrose and levulose. While dextrose is not as 
sweet as cane sugar, levulose is very much sweeter, so that 
the mixture has a peculiar penetrating sweetness that is not 
as well liked as the cane sugar flavor. 

Source. Sucrose is found in the sap or juices of a variety 
of plants, the sugar cane, the sugar beet and the sugar maple 
being the most important sources commercially, but many 
common fruits and vegetables contain considerable amounts. 
Whether obtained by collecting sap or by crushing, it is al- 
ways at first a syrup and all solid sugar is made from these 
juices by the process of refining. 

Use in the Diet. Cane sugar constitutes a very important 
part of the dietary of most people for table use and in confec- 
tionery and in combination with other foods in cooking. It 
is a valuable source of energy but must be used with dis- 
cretion because in too large amounts or in too concentrated a 
form it is irritating to the membrane of the stomach, is liable 
to ferment, and also because being quickly absorhed, it sat- 
isfies the appetite before the need for food has been entirely 
met or blunts it so that other foods become distasteful. 
Sweet fruits are better than pore sugar, especially for children, 
since fruits contain important mineral salts which are wholly 
lacking in sugar. 

Sugar should be avoided in gastric disorders, and in dia- 
betes, and because it is a very concentrated food it should 
not be used in cases of obesity. 



8 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Substitute for Sugar. Since sugar is used not only as a 
fuel food but as a condiment, attempts have been made to 
secure a substitute for use in cases where carbohydrate is 
limited or denied. The best known of these is " saccharin '* 
or ^^sweetina/' a crystalline coal tar product. It is many 
times sweeter than sugar but it has no food value. 

Tests for Sugar. A simple test for sugars, in general, con- 
sists in adding an equal volume of concentrated sodium hy- 
droxide solution to the suspected solution, and boiling. A 
brown color indicates the presence of sugar. 

The chief test for dextrose is Fehling's. A test solution 
should be on hand and may be obtained at any apothecary's. 
It should be fresh. The test is based on the fact that dex- 
trose " reduces ^^ salts of copper, i. e., by depriving them of 
some of their oxygen and an insoluble oxide of copper is pre^ 
cipitated. To make the test, add to a portion of the test 
solution a few drops of the suspected solution in a test tube 
and boil. If a red precipitate forms, dextrose is present. 
The sole use of this test for the nurse will probably be in 
connection with diabetes, when the nurse makes the test at 
the request of the physician. 

Starch and Other Polysaccharides 

Description. Starch, unlike sugar, is insoluble but may be 
made to pass into a soluble form by boiling in water, dry 
heating at high temperature or by certain digestive ferments. 
The first substances formed in the course of starch digestion 
are dextrins; these can be split to the disaccharide maltose 
which in turn will yield two molecules of dextrose. The 
polysaccharides which have nutritive value in the body are 
starch, dextrins and glycogen. 

In its pure state, i. e., when isolated from proteins, cellu- 
lose, gums, and so forth, starch is a shining white powder 
having a distinctive quality to the touch. Under the micro- 
scope it is found to consist of granules which are insoluble in 



r 



CARBOHYDRATES 



cold water; on wanning they absorb water and swell. Cook- 
ing in water ruptures the starch grains, rendering the con- 
tents more readily acted upon by the digestive juices. 

Source. Starch occurs widely in the vegetable kingdom. 
It is found in largest amount In seeds, roots, tubers, bulbs 
and sometimes in the stems and leaves of plants. It con- 
stitutes one half to three fourths of the solid matter of 
the ordinary cereal grains and at least three fourths of the 
solids of mature potatoes. The commercial product " starch " 
is obtained from wheat, com, rice, potatoes and arrowroot. 

Other Polysaccharides. Celhilose, the framework of plants, 
has no nutritive value, but because it is not digested in the 
human body it forms the major part of tlie ballast which 
ia 80 necessary to a normal intestinal movement. It stiranlates 
peristalsis by acting as a gentle mechanical irritant; by 
helping to retain moisture and to keep the feces soft ; and by 
giving such bulk that the intestinal muscles can act to good 
advantage. Unless it is desirable for some special reason to 
relieve the digestive tract of all work a certain amount of 
cellulose should be included in the diet. In constipation the 
addition of an increased amount of cellulose in some non- 
irritating form, like agar-agar, has proved a successful thera- 
peutic measure. Much of our food as we eat it has had moat 
of the cellulose naturally present removed in preparing it for 
the table. For this reason bran is frequently added to food 
by those having a tendency to sluggish intestinal movement. 
The same results can be secured by making the diet consist- 
of a greater proportion of foods which contain large amounts, 
of " roughpge " or ballast, such as green vegetables, fruits 
and whole grain products. . 

GumB have little or no nutritive value in the hnman body, 
and like cellulose act as ballast. 

Principles of Cooking Starch. The principles involved in 
the eooTciug of starch are of two types — chemical and me- 




10 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Chemical Principles. Since raw starch is digestible only 
to a slight degree, it is essential to good digestion that starchy 
foods be cooked. 

In the presence of moisture, starch becomes semi-soluble 
at the temperature of boiling water, i. e., 212 degrees Fahren- 
heit. Gruels are made by cooking cereal flours in water at 
or near the boiling temperature for a long time. 

By dry heat, at a temperature of 300-400 degrees Fahren- 
heit, starch can be converted to dextrin. This principle is 
applied in making toast, a little dextrin forming on the out- 
side of the slice. A small portion of the starch is further 
changed to caramel, giving a characteristic flavor to the crust 
of bread, toast, etc. 

Mechanical Principles. When foods composed largely of 
starch, such as flour, cornstarch, etc., are to be cooked with 
a liquid, care must be taken to prevent the formation of 
lumps, for these are not only unsightly, but consist of an 
outer layer of cooked starch surrounding a center of un- 
changed material and preventing its being made digestible. 

There are three methods of avoiding lumps: 

1. By mixing the starch gradually with a small poriion of 
cold water, so that a smooth paste is formed, before adding 
the boiling liquid. This method is used in making gruels, 
etc. 

2. By mixing with fat before adding liquid. The melting 
fat separates the starch granules. At least as much fat as 
starch must be used. The liquid is preferably added cold, 
and all at once. If added hot, it must be stirred in very 
gradually. This method is employed in making gravies, 
sauces, etc. 

3. By mixing with sugar. The melting sugar serves to 
separate the starch grains. This is practicable only when the 
sugar is greater in amount than the starch, and the liquid 
must be added gradually. This method is applied in the 
case of desserts, such as cornstarch pudding. 

When foods consisting of a mixture of starch and cellu- 



FATS AND OILS 11 

lose, as cereal breakfast foods, are to be cooked, it is necessary 
to soften and break up the cellulose to enable the digestive 
juices to reach the starch. This necessitates long cooking 
at a temperature near the boiling point. The longer such a 
cereal food is cooked, the easier of digestion it becomes. 
Hence it is an excellent rule to cook such foods for infants 
and others of feeble digestive powers, twice as long as is com- 
monly recommended. 

Eeheating of starchy foods, therefore, tends to promote 
their ease of digestion. Zwieback (twice baked bread) is 
more readily digested than fresh bread. Moreover the texture 
of hard dry bread induces more thorough mastication than 
does the fresh which is apt to be swallowed in soft doughy 
lumps. 

Test for Starch. Starch is colored blue by iodine. Hence 
it is easy to detect its presence in any food. To make the 
■ test, a small portion of the material should be placed in a 
test tube, boiled with a little water, cooled, and two or three 
drops of dilute tincture of iodine added. If starch is pres- 
ent, the blue color will immediately appear. Dextrin gives 
a portwine color with iodine, so that if any of this siihstance be 
presentj the color is modified, becoming more or less purplish, 
or purple-red. 

PATB ADD OILS 

Definition. Fats are composed of carbon, hydrogen and 
oxygen but the oxygen is prcBent in smaller proportion than 
in carbohydrates. Fats were formerly spoken of as hydro- 
carbons but this term is now reserved for aubstancea which 
contain no oxygen at all, such as benzene. 

Description. True iats, whether solids or oils, are chemi- 
cally compounds of fatty acids with glycerol, called glycerides, 
and differ among themselves according to the particular fatty 
acids they contain. Those commonly found in considerable 
amount in edible fats are stearic, palmitic and oleic acids. 
The stearates or comhinatione of stearic acid with glycerol 




12 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

(sometimei called gtearinf) are solid fats as are abo palmi- 
UUa or palmitiiis. The oleates or oleins, on the other hand, 
are liquid at ordinarr temperatares. Butter, tallov, Imrd and 
other commorj fat- are mixtures of glrcerides. The softness 
of butter, oleoTuargariDe, lard, etc., is due to the amount of 
olein which thev contain. Suet and tallow owe their haid- 
Tifim largely to the amount of stearin present. Vegetable oils 
(olive, eotU^nBeed, peanut, almond and cocoanut) contain 
large amounts of olein, as does also cod liver oiL Certain 
ry>dB rjot usually thought of as fatty, contain significant 
arnoufjlK of fat, for example, egg yolk, Indian com and nearly 
all nuiH. 

Jjeciihin. IV^fiides the true fats there are many fat-like 
huhHiiiJWMH, (:\ohtt]y related to the fats both chemically and 
biologically, which occur widely in nature. One of the most 
imjK^rtarjt of these, from the standpoint of nutrition, is leci- 
thin which in found abundantly in egg yolk, and also in brain 
and riervfi iisBue, blood, l}'mph, milk, many seeds and other 
plant and animal tissues. Besides fatty acids it contains 
phoHphonjH. Jt is a necessary constituent of every living celL 

Volatile OUh, 'i'hese have little in conmion with true oils. 
They vary much among themselves in composition but all tend 
iA) disappear by evaporation. They are characterized by their 
odors, tasU.'s and pungency. A few of them are used as fla- 
voring. The oil of bergamot is obtained from a variety of 
orange, th(» oil of lemon from lemon peel, etc. Cooking tends 
U) volatilize them, so that such flavoring should be added at 
the last moment. 

Source of Fat, The chief sources of fat in the diet are 
milk (yi(»l(Jing cream and butter), olive oil and other vege- 
table oils, meat fats (especially lard, bacon, salt pork, beef 
Huet and drippings), and nuts. 

(Jkeap Forma of Fat. Tliere are cheaper forms of fat than 
butter, olive oil and lard. Among them are oleomargarine 
and the various margarines made from vegetable fats, such 
as cocoanut, cottonseed and corn oils. Because they are 



FATS AND OILS 13 

cheaper they are used as aubstitates for the more expensive 
fats. OJeomargarine is made of beef fat churned with milk. 
Cottonseed, cocoanut and pahn nut oils are also used in the 
manufacture of butter substitutes. Combinations of cot- 
tonseed oil and beef fat are made into fats similar in appear- 
ance and use to lard. The oils of corn, cottonBeed and certain 
other seeds are now commonly used in place of olive oil. 

Oleomargarine and the other butter substitutes have prac- 
tically the same fuel value as butter. Olive oil, cottonseed 
and com oilB and lard are 100 per cent, fat and yield equal 
amounts of energy. Butter, however, and, to a less extent, 
beef fat, contain a growth-promoting substance, fat-soluble 
vitamine, not found in lard, olive oil or any vegetable fat 
or oil. Mili, egg yolk and green vegetables are rich sources 
of fat-soluble vitamine and when they are included in the diet 
in liberal amounts substitutes for butter may be safely used, 
but otherwise there is a danger of deficiency in tliis vitamine. 

Note: See discussion on Vitamines, page 21. 

Function. Fat is the most concentrated kind of fuel, fur- 
nishing two and one fourth times as much energy as the same 
weight of carbohydrate or protein. Excess of any of the or- 
ganic foodstuffs may be stored as reserve fuel in the form of 
body fat. To serve as an energy supply is its moat impor- 
tant function ; but fat also serves aa a protection to the body 
from mechanical injurj' and from too rapid loss of heat when 
exposed to cold, and as a packing and support to the visceral 
organs, particularly the kidneys. 

Digestibility. Fat tends to check the secretion of gastric 
juice and to retard the motility of the stomach, thereby les- 
sening the rate of digestion. The softer fats and emulsified 
fats are digested more quickly than those that are harder. 
Heating fats to too high a temperature in cooking may decom- 
pose them and produce substances irritating to the membrane 
of the stomach. Also, foods fried in fat are coated witli 
and possibly permeated by it and thus are more slowly di- 
gested. 



, KCBKll. 



14 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Tests for Fats. Fats are readily tested with paper; if they 
are present in a given substance a permanent grease spot 
appears. If to a suspected substance a little sodinm hydrox- 
ide solution is added a white precipitate forms^ which is a 
hard sodium soap. 

P&OTEIHS 

CJiemiral Xature. Proteins are organic foodstnfib^ com- 
pounds of the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, 
sulphur and sometimes phosphorus. Carbohydrates and fats 
contain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, but proteins are the 
only source of organic nitrogen which is an essential con- 
stituent of l)oth animal and plant cells. 

Proteins are made up of simpler substances containing ni- 
trogen, called amino acids. They bear the same relation to 
protein that dextrose does to starch, that is, amino acids are 
the last step in the breaking down of the protein molecule 
in digestion, but, whereas all the molecules of dextrose which 
starch yields on hydrolysis are alike, one protein molecule 
may yield from 12 to 20 different amino acids. 

Source, Proteins are an important part of muscle tissue 
and of both animal and plant protoplasm. Plants can build 
their own proteins from inorganic materials which they derive 
from the soil and the air, but animals are unable to synthe- 
size their body proteins directly from inorganic substances 
and must get them from the proteins in their food. 

Man secures his protein from two sources, animal and 
vegetable foods. Meat, fish, eggs and milk furnish large 
amounts of animal proteins. Egg proteins are found in both 
the whites and the yolks. Milk has two very important pro- 
teins, casein and lactalbumin. Animal foods are, in general, 
richer in protein than vegetable foods. The only foods of 
plant origin which can compare with animal foods in this re- 
spect are the loguineH (peas, beans, lentils, peanuts, etc.), 
and certain nut^, such as almonds and pine nuts. 

Clasffiflralion. Proteins are usually classified as simple 



PROTEINS 15 

proteins, conjugated proteins and derived proteins. Some 
examples of proteins of each group are given below and the 
reader is referred to Shennan's Chemistry of Pood and Nu- 
trition, Second Edition, pages 51-54 for the complete cias- 
fiification. 

1. Simple Proteins. 

(a) Albumins. Examples: egg albumin (egg white), 
lactalbumin (milk), serum albumin (blood), 

(b) Globulins. Examples: muscle globulin, serum 
globulin (blood), edestin (wheat, hemp seed and 
other seeds), legumin (beans and peas ). 

(c) Albuminoids. Eiannples; collagen of connective 
tiasiie. 

2. Conjugated Proteins. 

(a) Nucleoproteins. Examples: proteins of glandu- 

*lar organs, such as sweetbreads, 
(b) Phosphoproteins. Examples : casein (milt) , 
ovovitellin (egg yolk), 
(c) Hemoglobins. ExampleB: hemoglobin of blood. 

3. Derived Proteins, 

(a) Metaproteins. Examples: acid proteins, alkali 

proteins, albuminates, 

(b) Proteoses. 

(c) Peptones, 

Niirogenons Extractives. Not all the nitrogen present in 
food is in the form of protein. Substances found in mus- 
cle juice, consisting chiefly of creatin, creatinin and purins 
{uric acid and related substances), have little if any fuel 
value and are useful only as stimulants. They give meata 
their characteristic flavor and hence are appetizing and stimu- 
late the flow of gastric juice. For this reason, extracts of 
meat, such as beef tea, beef juice and soups made from meat 
stock are valuable in feeding the sick. 

Functions. Proteins have two functions: (1) to yield 
energy, and (2) to build tissue. The body is constantly losing 
nitrogen, aa a waste product frona the metabolism of the cells 



16 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

and from the wear and tear of the cell structure. The nitro- 
gen to make up for this loss must be supplied by protein 
food. 

Differences in Value in Nutrition. There are marked dif- 
ferences in the value of the different proteins in respect to 
their ability to form body substance and these yariations are 
due to the amino acids which they contain. Experiments 
with animals, in which the diet contained only one protein, 
show that gliadin (one of the proteins of wheat) will maintain 
a full grown animal in body weight but will not promote 
growth in the young, while zein (one of the proteins of the 
com kernel) is inadequate for both maintenance and growth. 
Gliadin lacks lysine, an amino acid essential to growth, but 
it is sufficient for maintenance because it contains the amino 
acid tryptophane. Zein lacks both lysine and tryptophane. 
Casein and lactalbumin (milk), ovalbumin and ovovitellin 
(eggs) and edestin (grains) are examples of what are called 
" complete proteins '^ because they contain all the amino acids 
necessary for both maintenance and growth. Proteins capa- 
ble of maintaining life but not of promoting normal growth 
are termed "partially incomplete.'^ Gliadin is one of these. 
^^ Incomplete proteins '^ are those incapable of maintaining 
life or promoting growth. Zein and gelatin are examples 
of this class. 

The amino acids lacking in certain proteins are supplied 
by a mixed diet containing more than one kind of protein, and, 
in the case of certain grains such as corn, the deficiency in 
one kind is corrected more or less by the other proteins of the 
whole grain; for example, glutelin, another protein of the 
corn kernel, which is "complete,^' supplies the tryptophane 
and lysine lacking in zein. In order to be certain that the 
diet contains an adequate supply of complete proteins, the 
liberal use of milk, eggs and vegetables is important, espe- 
cially for growing children and invalids. 

Cooking of Protein, Care is necessary in the cooking of 
protein in order to prevent toughening and to make it easy 



I MINERAL MATTER IT 

of digestion. The following experiment with egg albumin, 
which is one of the most familiar proteins, illustrates some 
of the properties of proteins in general. 

Effect of Temperature on Protein. Put some white of egg 
into a test tube, place in a sauce pan of cold water, heat grad- 
ually, and observe all changes. 

1. Raw egg white is a sticky, clear, pale straw-colored liquid. 
It is not well digested. 

2. When the water reaches the temperature of 134° F. 
white streaks will be seen in a semi-solid substance. 

3. When the water reaches the temperature of 150° to 
160° F, the egg white will be soft and jelly-like in consistency, 
and is readily digested. 

4. When the water reaches 313° F. the egg white will be 
tough white jelly and less readily digested. 

5. When egg white is heated to 300° F. or higher (for 
example by putting the test tube directly over the flame), it 
will almost immediately becom« hard and tough. 

These teats show that protein is hardened and toughened 
by high temperatures; it is most tender and readily digested 
when cooked at a low temperature. 

MINEBAI. HATTEB 

Amount and Kind in the Body. The mineral matter in 
the body amounts to about 5 qr t! per cent by weight, occurring 
chiefly in the bones but also in the tissues and in blood and 
other body fluids. 

The body is composed of the elements oxygen, carbon, hydro- 
gen, nitrogen, calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulphur, so- 
dium, chlorine, magnesium and iron, with minute traces of 
iodine, fluorine and silicon. Of these oxygen, carbon, hydro- 
gen, nitrogen, sulphur and some phosphorus exist in the body 
in proteins. Phosphorus is also combined with calcium in the 

I form of calcium phospliate which is the chief mineral constitu- 
ent of bone. Magnesium also occurs in bone. Calcium and 

I magnesium and Bome phosphorus are found in muscle tissue. 



18 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

The blood and other body fluids contain ealcinm, sodium, 
chlorine (chiefly as sodium chloride), magnesium, phosphorus 
and potassium. Blood is especially rich in iron which is found 
in the hemoglobin of the red corpuscles. 

Occurrence in Food, All the elements which enter into the 
structure of the body must be furnished by the food. Carbon, 
hydrogen and oxygen are supplied by the proteins, fats and 
carbohydrates; nitrogen and sulphur by the proteins. Phos- 
phorus is combined with some proteins (phosphoproteins), 
some fats (phosphorized fats) and some carbohydrates, and 
it also occurs in inorganic form, for the most part as calcium 
phosphate. Among the phosphorus-rich foods are milk, egg 
yolk, legumes, whole grain cereals, fruits, vegetables and 
lean meat. 

Foods rich in calcium are milk (by far the best source, 
both because it is the richest in calcium of any of the common 
foods and because of the ease with which its calcium is as- 
similated), cheese, whole grains, legumes, vegetables, fruits 
and molasses. 

Egg yolk and spinach are especially good sources of iron, 
but green vegetables in general, legumes, potatoes, whole 
grain products and fruits are fairly rich sources. Milk 
contains iron in rather small amount, but in a form very 
easy to digest and assimilate, and is, therefore, a more valu- 
able source than its iron content would indicate. Lean meat 
is richer in iron but in a form less available to the body. 

Sodium and chlorine, as sodium chloride or common salt, 
is added to food as seasoning in such quantities that the needs 
of the body for these elements are amply mot. 

Potassium and magnesium are so widely distributed in 
foods, and such small amounts are needed by the body that 
they are adequately supplied by a mixed diet. 

Calcium, iron and phosphorus are of such importance in 
nutrition and, calcium and iron especially, so often inade- 
quately supplied by the diet, that they demand special atten- 
tion to insure the inclusion in the diet in sufficiently large 




WATER 19 

amounts foods rich in these three elements. Milk, vegetables, 
eggs and fruits, if used liberally, will furnish enough of 
these ash constituents to meet the body's requirement. 

Functions. Mineral matter functions in the body in the 
following ways ; 

' (1) As a constituent of the bones, giving rigidity and 
relative permanence to the skeletal tissues. 

(2) As essential elements in the structure of the soft 
tissues (muscles, blood cells, etc.). 

(3) As soluble salts held in solution in the fluids of the 
body, giving these fluids their characteristic influence upon 
the elasticity and irritability of muscle and nerve, supplying 
the material for the acidity or alkalinity of the digestive 
juices and other secretions, and yet maintaining the neutral- 
ity or slight alkalescence of the internal fluids as well as their 
osmotic pressure and solvent power. 

WATER 

Composition and Properties. Water is composed of the 
elements hydrogen and o.xygen, two parts of hydrogen to one 
of oxygen. Its chemical formula is written HjO. Abso- 
lutely pure water is colorless, odorless and tasteless, hut such 
water is not found in nature, owing to its great solvent power, 
which causes it to dissolve substances with which it comes 
in contact. Water ordinarily, therefore, contains varying 
quantities of mineral and organic matter, including gases. 
To these substances in solution the characteristic flavor is 
due. Water from which the air has been expelled by boiling 
or long standing in a warm place has a " flat " taste. 

Water freezes at 32° F, On heating, the ice melts, and 
we may have ice water with a temperature of 33" F. Wlien 
this water ia warmed, the air dissolved in it begins to expand, 
and tiny bubbles appear, forming first on the sides of the 
vessel, and tending to rise to the surface. If the water there 
ia not yet warmed, they contract and sink, but finally when 

1 Qooted from Sherman, ■■ Chemistry at Pood »nd Nutrition," Second Edi- 



20 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

m 

the water is warm tliroughout, come to the surface and es- 
cape. After the air is thus expelled, if heating is continued, 
steam bubbles form in a similar manner. At 186° F., water 
bubbles below the surface, or simmers. Wh.en the bubbles 
reach the surface and break, giving off a cloud of steam^ the 
boiling point 212° F. has been reached. Except under pres- 
sure, water can then become no hotter. Past boiling simply 
means rapid evaporations and waste of fuel. 

Water Content of Foods. The water content of foods varies 
widely. In green vegetables it constitutes from 85 to 95 per 
cent, of the whole substance; in potatoes and some other 
starchy vegetables it is present in as large amount as 75 per 
cent. Even in seemingly dry foods like crackers there may 
be as much as from 5 to 10. per cent. But since the body 
itself contains a large amount of water and the water loss 
through the lungs, skin, kidneys, etc., is so great, water must 
be taken in addition to that contained in food. Under or- 
dinary circumstances about 3 to 4 pints daily are necessary. 
The quantity of water excreted per day varies with atmos- 
pheric conditions and the amount of exercise, increasing with 
hot weather and violent exercise and decreasing in the bed- 
ridden and sedentary. Babies and delirious patients should 
be fed water as carefully as food. The liberal drinking of 
water with meals promotes good digestion, provided that it 
is not too cold and that it is not used to wash down food. 

Functions, Water serves the following important pur- 
poses in the body: 

(1) It is an essential constituent of the tissue cells and of 
all body fluids, such as blood, lymph and the digestive juices, 

(2) It dissolves nutritive materials in the course of diges- 
tion, making possible their absorption into the blood and lymph. 

(3) It furnishes a medium for the transportation of food 
to various parts of the body and the removal of waste. 

(4) It keeps the various mucous membranes of the body 
soft and prevents friction of their surfaces. 

(5) It aids in regulating body temperature. 



yiTAKUIES 

There are three substances or groups of substances, not yet 
chemically identified, which are neceBsary to normal growth 
and maintenance. A diet may be adequate in amount and 
kind of fuel, protein, ash constituents and water and still 
fail to promote normal growth or maintain an animal in 
health if one or all of these substances is lacking. They are 
variously known as vitamines, accessory food substances, and 
food hormones- 
One of them is soluble in fat and is found naturally in 
' such fats as butter, cod liver oil, fat of egg yolk and of glandu- 
lar organs such as the kidney, but is not found in lard or in 
olive oil or any other fat or oil of vegetable origin. It is, 
however, found in the leaves of plants. The absence of this 
vitamine in the diets of growing animals results in retarded 
growth which is resumed when a food containing this growth- 
promoting fat is added. Full grown animals do not show a 
lack of the fat-soluble vitamine as quickly as do growing 
animals, but eventually they give evidence of impaired health 
and nutrition which disappears on the addition of this essen- 
tial food factor. The best sources of fat-aoluble vitamine 
are whole milk, butter, egg yolk and the leafy vegetables. 

The second vitamine is soluble in water and insoluble in 
fat. Lack of it causes a disease known as beriberi which 
manifests itself as a degeneration of the nerves, and which 
occurs among people living too largely on a diet of polished 
rice. It can be prevented or cured by using unpolished rice 
instead of polished or white rice, or by adding to the diet beans, 
peas, peanuts or whole grains. The water-soluble vitamine 
is more widely distributed in natural foods than the fat-aoluble 
and there is much less danger of a deficiency in this respect 
than of the fat-soluble vitamine, provided that the food is not 
too highly refined. Foods rich in this substance are milk, 
egg yolk, legumes, the bran and germ of whole grains sjad 
green vegetables. 



L 



^ FBACTICAL DIETETICS 

TLe tiiird vi^aiL::^^ jriv^s "w> oenain foods liieir 



The ooc'TirreLc-^ of sc-rrr Las been f^i'-aiid to be ooincident 
T»ith a di<^t c-oiJEit::iig largelj of dries! and cooked foods; it 
hi <:uTtA by the use of fresh foods, ?Qch as onmges^ lemonSy 
Ihsjfi^. jx>tat/xrs. cabbage and tomattics.. in particular, and fresb 
fruJVi aijd vegetables, in generaL Cooked and canned fmitB 
do jjot apjxrar to Lave lost much of their ~ antiscorbutic prop- 
erty/* but the ordinan- eoc»king of vegetables has Tariable rcP- 
fcultjj; ujiually re?'alting in some loss,, and sometimes in oom- 
pJete Jo^j?, Cabbage, potatoes and tomatoes stand heating veiy 
welJ, 'i*he heating of milk injures the antiscorbutic prop- 
erly, a lid the uyii of pasteurized or boiled milk or proprietary 
U/Ah \u feeding infants frequently results in the develop- 
/nenl of infantile scurvv unless raw milk is substituted or 
frej^h fruit or vegetable juice is added. Orange juice is most 
cornrnonly used, but potato water as a diluent for milk instead 
of barley waKT is now recommended (Hess and Fish), and 
re<:ent work in reportf;d (Iless) in which canned tomato juice 
was KijeeewjfuUy used as a substitute for orange juice, even 
with wary young children. 

The animal body can not manufacture vitamines; it can 
only gather them from its food. If the diet is deficient in 
any one of these necessary substances, satisfactory nutrition is 
impOKKible. 

THE ESSENTIALS OF AN ADEQTTATE DIET 

The liHHantitilH of an Adequate Diet may be summarized as : 

(1) Huflicient material to yield the necessary energy; 

{'^) Suflici(;nt protein of the kind best suited to growth and 
niainU'nance; 

(W) A(l(;(jUftt(i amounts of ash constituents in the proper 
proportions ; 

(-1) An adecjuato suj)ply of vitamines. 

A /'erfert Food. 1. " A j)erfect food must contain all the 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 23 

nutritive elements of the body : ProteinB, carbohydrates, fats, 
mineral matter, water and vitamin es. 

3, It must contain these in their proper proportions. 

3. It must contain in a moderate compass the total amount 
required daily. 

4. The nutritive elements must be capable of easy absorp- 
tion, and yet leave a certain bulk of unabsorbed matter to 
act as intestinal ballast. It must be obtainable at a mod- 
crate cost. — Hutchinson. 

A Mixed Diet therefore is necessary, as no " one food " 
fulfills all the requirements of a "perfect food." A mixed 
diet must be taken whereby one food may be used to sup- 
plement what is lacking in another. The foods best for 
health are those best fitted to the needs of the individual. 
The cheapest food is that which furnishes the largest amount 
of nutriment at the least cost. The best food is that which 
is both healthful ajid cheapest. 

Dietetics is an application of the science of nutrition to the 
feeding of individuals of different ages, under different cir- 
cumstances, in health and disease. 



■ FOOD ACCESSORIES Oa ADJTTNCTS 

cohdheeiits — bevehages 

Definition. Food accessories or food adjuncts are sub- 
stances which, although they have no nutritive value, are 
extensively used in the dietary to give flavor to foods, to in- 
crease the appetite and to furnish pleasing variety. Under 
the t«rm are included condiments and beverages. 



The number of condiments, if we consider appetizing aub- 
.Btances of all kinds, is very large. It includes the great 
variety of sauces, spices oed in cookimg (ginger, cinnamon, 



^^ 



24 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

nutmeg and cloves), flavoring extracts (vanilla^ oil of lemon, 
etc.), mustard, horseradish, pepper, salt and vinegar. Of 
these, salt is, strictly speaking, a food. When it is used in 
excess of body needs, simply to modify the flavor of food, it is 
properly classed as a condiment. 

The taste for condiments is largely an artiflcial one and 
their use should be limited. In moderation, for the sake of 
variety, or when the appetite is feeble, their addition to the 
diet is legitimate. They should be withheld (with the excep- 
tion of salt) from tlie food of children, because they destroy 
the appetite for milder foods and because they are irritating 
to the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. For the 
same reason, they should also be given with caution to in- 
valids, especially those suffering from any inflammation of 
the digestive tract. 

Beverages 

These food accessories include tea, coffee, alcoholic drinks* 
lemonade and other acid drinks, aerated and carbonated 
drinks. Such beverages are useful, not because of their nu- 
tritive value, for they have little or none, but because of 
their stimulating or thirst quenching qualities, and because 
of an attractive flavor. 

Milk, cocoa and chocolate, though taken as beverages with 
meals, are really foods, since they contain protein, fat, car- 
bohydrate and mineral matter. 




NUTRITION 



DIQXSTION — ABSOBPIION — KETABOLISH 

TTnder thia term is usually understood the digestion and 
abaorption of nouriahmeut, ita assimilation . and utilization, 
its storage in eioesa, and finally the elimination of the 
products of wear and tear, of combustioUj and of nutriment 
or waste which cannot he utilized. Those processes of nutri- 
tion which occur after absorption are now included in the 
term metabolism. To restate this in a simple form (adapted 
from Thompson), nutrition involves: 

1. The secretion of digestive fluids, and their action upon 
■ food in the alimentary canal — in other words, digestion. 

2. The passage of the ingredients of the digested food into 
the blood vessels and lymphathic vessels — absorption. 

3. The utilization of the absorbed nutrition products by 
the cells — assimilation or upward metabolism. 

4. The elimination of waste material — disassimilation or 
downward metabolism. 

The subjects of digestion and absorption wil! be treated in 
detail for each food principle, and then summarized at the 
end of each topic. 

DIGESTION 
DiaESTIOIT or PROTEIHS 

Vigesiion in the Stomach. Protein is not chemically al- 
tered in the mouth. The process of chewing simply mois- 
tens and divides it into small particles so that it is easily 
swallowed and more readily attacked by the secretion of the 
stomach. Passing down the cesophagus, through the cardiac 



26 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

sphincter guarding the entrance to the stomach, it enters that 
portion of the latter organ called the fundus. Here it rests 
quietly for some time, so that it is not immediately mixed 
with gastric juice, as formerly taught, but the outer portions 
of the mass are successively attacked and dissolved. These 
t$oft portions are then pressed into the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach and subjected to a thorough 
mixing. 

^riio gastric juice is an acid fluid which may be secreted in 
largo quantities — as much as one or two gallons in 24 hours. 
Its aciility is due to the presence of about 0.2 per cent, to 0.4 
por cent, of hydrochloric acid. This of itself is capable; of 
<'ausing protein to swell and to some extent dissolve; of 
liydrolyzing the collagen of connective tissue; of decalcifying 
boiu^ ; and of preventing bacterial action. 

Tlio gastric juice contains two enzymes which act on pro- 
tein, jx'psin and retinin. Pepsin can act only in the presence 
•of a (lelinito percentage of hydrochloric acid, while rennin 
acts in a neutral solution. The relations of rennin and pep- 
sin are not yet very clearly understood. The function of 
rennin is to curdlo milk, which causes it to remain in the 
fitoniaeh long enough to bo digested by the pepsin. 

Action of repsiti. The protein of the diet, more or less 
HW()ll(;n, softened, and dissolved by the action of hydrochloric 
aeid, is changed chemically by pepsin, into a series of in- 
^Teasingly simpler and more soluble products, namely, acid 
proteins, proteoses (often called albumoses) and peptones. 
Tlio change to peptones is not complete, but these three 
products of peptic digestion tend to pass together into the 
intestine, when the pyloric sphincter which guards the en- 
trance to the duodenum opens to let them pass. The opening 
and closing of tliis sphincter is controlled by two factors: 
1 . The consistency of the partly digested food, solid particles 
t(?nding to keep the pylorus closed. 2. The presence of free 
bydroc^iloric acid in the stomach contents. This is the more 
important factor. 

Protein is capable of absorbing and uniting chemically with 



r 



DIGESTION 21 

a certain amount of acid. When it is bo saturated, free acid 
will be present, having now nothing with which to combine, 
and this free acid ia the stimulus which causes the pyloric 
sphincter to relax and lets a little spurt of food into the 
duodenum. Once in the duodenum, this same acid acts as 
the stimulus to close the pylorus, and no more food enters the 
duodenum until the first portion has been neutralized. 

A clear understanding of the way in which the pyloric 
sphincter is regulated throws considerable light on stomach 
digestion. We can understand why a certain quantity of in- 
digestible residue, such as is present in most oi our staple 
foods — meats, vegetables, fruits, etc, — ia of service in re- 
taining food within the stomach for a time, giving the 
hydrochloric acid a chance to exercise its bactericidal power, 
and favoring thorough gastric digestion. It also explains 
why a meal of "bolted" food (or of food imperfectly masti- 
cated through absence of teeth), or a failure of free hydro- 
chloric acid in the stomach contents, as in hypoacidity or 
achylia gastrica, may set up such a continuous state of pyloric 
. contraction that the stomach remains unemptied for a long 
period, with a good prospect of fermentation and gas pro- 
duction, of relief by vomiting, or of an attack of acute in- 
digestion, biliousness or diarrhoea. The nurse will under- 
stand why a diet of "liquids" for a person in relatively 
good health does not prove satisfactory. Liquids do not stay 
long enough in the stomach to give a sense of fullness, give 
the stomach little to do, and tend to pass into the intestine 
poorly prepared for the action of the digestive juices there. 

Digestion in ike Intestines. On entering the duodenum, 
the acid chyme from the stomach meets three secretions, all 
alkaline in reaction, namely, the pancreatic juice, the bile, 
and the intestinal juice. 

The hydrochloric acid of the stomach is indirectly respon- 
sible for the flow of the pancreatic juice, for this begins only 
after acid food has entered the duodenum. The pancreatic 
juice contains an enzyme capable of digesting protein only 
after it has come into contact with the intestinal juice. This 



28 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



enzyme is then called trypsin, and the changes which it pro- 
duces in protein are similar to those produced by pepsin; it 
acts, however, in an alkaline medium. 

The products of trypiic digestion are therefore alkali pnh 
tein, proteoses (albumoses) and peptones. 

The bile plays no significant part in protein digestion, ex- 
cept as it helps to neutralize the chyme. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme called erepsin, 
which completes the digestion of protein, breaking down the 
proteoses and peptones formed by pepsin and trypsin into 
still less complex compounds called amino acids. These are 
the "end-products^^ of protein digestion. The digestive 
process can go no farther. There are no enzymes acting on 
proteins in the large intestines. 

Summary, The chemical changes in protein during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

PROTEIN 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME ACnox 


Mouth 


Saliva 


None 


None 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 


Rennin 

Pepsin and Hy- 
drochloric acid 


Coagulates milk 

fAcid Protein, 
• Proteoses, 
[Peptones 


Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 

Bile 

Intestinal Juice 


Trypsin (in alka- 
line medium) 

None 

Erepsin (acts 
only on proteo- 
ses and pep- 
tones) 


fAlkali Protfiin, 
- Proteoses, 
Peptones 

None 

Amino Acids 



\ 



1 



DIQESTION or FAT 

Fat is not acted upon by the secretions of the mouth nor 
to any great extent by those of the stomach. The gastric 
juice contains an enzyme, called ijastric lipase, which has the 
power of acting on emulsified fats, such as in cream or yolk 
of eggs. It plays a more important part in the digestion of 
infants than of adults. 

The presence of fat in the stomach retards the secretion of 
gastric juice. Hence a. certain excess of fat in the stomach 
is BufBcient to close the pylorus for a longer or shorter time, 
due to the failure of the appearance of free hydrochloric acid. 
This doubtless accounts for the fact that fat in the diet often 
seems to retard and otherwise disturb digestion. 

Digestion of fat takes place mainly in the small intestines. 
The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called steapsin, which 
has the power of emulsifying fats and also of splitting them 
into fatty acids and glycerine. 

The bile contains no such enzymes, but it ia nevertheless an 
important factor in the digestion of fat. It has the power of 
increasing greatly the activity of the pancreatic lipase (steap- 
sin), and of holding in solution the fatty acids formed by 
its action, so that they are more perfectly absorbed. When 
bile is lacking, much of the fat fails of absorption and is 
excreted through the intestines. Emulsification is an im- 
portant aid in the splitting of fat into fatty acids and glycer- 
ine, the forms in which fat is chiefly absorbed, 
DIQESTIOK or CABBOHTSKATES 

1. Digestion of Starch. There is little doubt that prim- 
itive man accomplished much of the digestion of starch in tlie 
mouth. The saliva contains two enzymes, ptyalin, and mai- 
tase. By the action of ptyalin starch is changed to dextrins 
and these to maltose; by the action of maltase, maltose is 
converted into dextrose, the end-product of salivary digestion. 
The crude uncooked food required prolonged mastication be- 
fore it could be swallowed, and during this mastication the 
enzymes had opportunity for action. Raw starch is so very 



30 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

slowly affected by enzymes, that much of the food Talue of un- 
cooked cereals is lost, so that the practice of baking ground 
grain into bread developed very early. This fact in r^;ard 
to starch digestion is often disregarded by advocates of a re- 
turn to raw foods. 

There is said to be some evidence that a pharyngeal reflex 
once existed which prevented the bolting of foods which are 
capable of salivary digestion, or which are not eanily di- 
gestible without mastication. In recent years, Mr. Horace 
Fletcher has counseled a return to prolonged mastication, in 
order that salivary digestion* may be carried to its fullest ex- 
tent. It is claimed that the more perfect utilization of all 
food eaten necessitates the taking of a smaller amount. 
There is no doubt that thorough mastication renders the di- 
g(*slion of starch easier and more complete, but it will not 
greatly alter the total food requirement. 

The starchy food mixed with saliva passes from the mouth 
to the stomach and lodges in the fundus, the portions last 
eaten always going to the center of the mass. Thus, while 
tlie gastric juice is at work upon the outer layer, attacking 
tlie protein of the diet, the inner portions remain alkaline for 
., considerable time, so that salivary digestion may continue 
undisturbed. 

From time to time, the soluble products of salivary and 
piHlric digestion pass into the small intestine. Here the con- 
vt'.vHum of starch and intermediate products into simple sugajs 
is (•onif)l(jted. The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called 
jirnylofmin, wliich acts like ptyalin, i. e., changes starch to 
<l(!x(rinH, and finally to maltose. 

Thrj inlestinal juice contains an enzyme capable of chang- 
\u^ mnUoM) to dextrose, the final product in starch digestion. 

Sutnrnnrj/. '!riie chemical changes in starch during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



TRACT 


.Z. 


ACTING OS 


EN2YUE 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Ptyalin 

Maltase 


JDextrins 
t Maltose 

Destrose 


Btomaph 


Gastric Juice 


None 




SnuiU Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Amylopein 
MultasB 


fDextrins . 
\Malt08e 

Dextroae 



3. Digestion of Sugars. AlUiough sugars are perfectly 
eoluble and easily absorbed, tbey must all be converted into 
monosaccharides or simple sugars (chiefly dextrose), before 
they can be utilized by the body. Hence we find a number 
of enzymes in the alimentary tract acting upon disaccharides. 
Two of these have already been, indicated in discuasing the 
digestion of starch, i. e., the maltasea of the saliva and in- 
testinal juice, which convert each molecule of maltose into 
two of dextrose. In the storaacJi, a slight hydrolysis of the 
disaccharides may occur through the influence ot the hydro- 
chloric acid. In the intestines, provision is made for their 
complete transformation. Both the pancreatic and intestinal 
jnieea contain enzymes of this type. In young animals, or 
older individuals on a milk diet, the pancreatic juice con- 
tains lactase, which converts lactose (milk sugar) into dex- 
trose and galactose. The intestinal juice contains three such 
enzymes, sucrose, acting on sucrose (cane sugar) ; lactase, 
acting on lactose ; and maltose, acting on maltose. 

Summary. The chemical changes in sugar during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



L 



S2 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PART OF 


NAME 


ENZYMES 


PBODUCTS 


ALIMENTARY 


OF 


ACTING ON 


or ENZTMB 


TRACT 


SECRETION 


SUGARS 


ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Maltase 


Dextrose 


Small Intestines 


Pancreatic Juice 


Lactase (at 


fDextrose 






times) 


\Galactose 




Intestinal Juice 


Lactase 


JDextrose 
\Galactose 






Maltase 


Dextrose 






Sucrase 


rDextrose 
"I^Levulose 



Mineral Matter and Water require no changes to prepare 
them for absorption. 

RESTJME OF DIGESTION 

The processes of digestion are both mechanical and cheni' 
ical. By mechanical processes the foods are first softened 
and finely divided, so as to be non-irritating to the walls of 
the alimentary tract, and to expose as much surface as pos- 
sible to the action of the digestive enzymes; secondly, they 
are moved along the alimentary tract from time to time, to 
facilitate digestion and absorption, and to expel indigestible 
residues. The movements of the mouth in mastication, of 
the oesophagus in swallowing, and of the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach in mixing the food with the 
gastric juice; the rhythmic and peristaltic movements of the 
small intestines, by which the food is alternately churned in 
a stationary position and then pushed along to a new region 
to repeat the process; and finally, the anti-peristaltic move- 
ments of the first part of the large intestines and the slow 
peristalsis throughout its entire length, form a series of events 
of tremendous importance to the welfare of the organism. 

By chemical processes, complex food-stuffs are converted 
into simpler substances out of which the body can build the 



DIGESTION 



33 



compounds essential to its persistence and activity. The di- 
gestive fluids and the enzymes contained therein, with the 
results of their activity, are most readily indicated by the 
following table: 



PART OF 


NAME OP 


REACTION 


ENZYMES 


FOODSTUFFS 


PRODUCTS OF 


ALIMENTARY 
TRACT 


SECRETION 


TO 
LITMUS 


PRRSENT 


ACTRD UPON 


ENZYMB 

ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Alkaline 


Ptyalin 


Starch 


( Soluble 
J Starch* 
1 Dextrins 










I Maltose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 


Stomach 


Gastric 
Juice 


Acid 


Pepsin 


Proteins 


r Acid 

J Protein 

1 Proteoses 






(0.2%- 






1 

1 




0.4% 
H 01.) 






I Peptones 








Bennin 


Protein 
(especially 
casein of 
milk) 


Coagulated 
Protein 








Lipase 


Emulsified 
Fats 


Fatty acids 
and 
glycerine 


Small 


Pancreatic 


Alkaline 


Trypsin 


Proteins 


r Alkali 


Intestines 


Juice 








J Protein 
1 Proteoses 
L Peptones 








Steapsin 


Fats 


' Emulsified 
Fat — 
- Fatty 

acids and 












glycerine 








Amylopsin 


Storch 


r Soluble 
J Starch — 
1 Dextrins — 
L Maltose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose 








(in young 


(Milk 


and 








animals) 


Sugar) 


L Galactose 




Intestinal 


Alkaline 


Erepsin 


Proteins in 


Amino 




Juice 






the form of 

Proteoses 

and 


Acids 








Sucrase 


Peptones 
Sucrose 


Dextrose and 
Levulose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose and 










Galactose 



The bile contains no important enzymes, but greatly facilitates the diges- 
tion of fats. The intestinal juice contains an enzyme which makes trypsin 
an active enzyme, and a substance which helps to stimulate the flow of 
pancreatic juice. 



34 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Inspection of the table on page 44 shows that there are five 
so-called digestive juices, viz. : saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic 
juice, bile, and intestinal juice. All are produced intermit- 
tently except the bile, which is secreted continuously into the 
gall-bladder and discharged at intervals into the intestine. 
All are alkaline except the gastric juice. All contain power- 
ful enzymes except the bile. Enzymes which digest protein 
occur in the gastric juice (pepsin), the pancreatic juice (tryp- 
sin), and the intestinal juice (erepsin). Ferments which 
transform starch to sugar occur especially in the saliva and 
pancreatic juices, and are commonly known as diastatic 
enzymes. Ptyalin is an old name for salivary diastase^ amy- 
lopsin for pancreatic diastase. 

The principal fat-splitting enzyme occurs in the pan* 
creatic juice, and is known as pancreatic lipase or steapsin. 
Numerous enzymes of minor importance occur in the gastric^ 
pancreatic, and intestinal juices. Bile in itself is able to 
emulsify fat as a step toward digestion. 

FACTORS DETERMINING BATE OF DIGESTION 

We know of the existence of many factors which influence 
salivary and gastric digestion, but much less about intestinal 
digestion. Among these are the nature of the food, cook- 
ery, appetite, mastication, palatability, mental state, amount 
of fluid in the meal, the pyloric reflexes, etc. The nature of 
the individual plays a powerful role; some individuals can 
Subsist almost wholly upon one or a few articles, while others 
quickly revolt against monotony of diet. Idiosyncrasy is 
another important factor; for example, some individuals can- 
not eat mutton, however disguised, while in others sugar is 
so strong a stimulant to peristalsis that it sets up a violent 
diarrhoea. The above being true of presumably healthy peo- 
ple, the factors which may influence digestion in the sick, 
invalid and convalescent must be still more uncertain. 
Hence tables which purport to give the relative digestibility 
of foods must be studied with allowances. We can study this 
problem in test tubes, or by examining the washings from the 



ABSOEPTION 35 

Btomaeh after definite meals or in fistula patients, but the 
results can hardly be applied forthwith to all persona. 

The direct Btimuli to the secretion of saliva are the sight, 
odor or taste of food; or the mechanical irritation produced 
fay contact of food-stuffs with the mouth. Indirectly, the 
thought of food may be a psychic stimulus to the fiow of 
saliva. Excitement may so check the flow of saliva that it 
is impossible to swallow dry food. 

The Btimuli to the secretion of gastric juice are both psychic 
and chemical. Pawlow has demonstrated, in the case of 
dogs, that the sight of food or the chewing of food in the 
mouth may produce a very effective fiow of gastric juice, to 
which he attributes great importance in digestion. How im- 
portant this preliminary flow before food enters the stomach 
may be in the ease of man has cot been very clearly demon- 
strated; but it seems reasonable that tlie desire for eating, the 
act of eating and the pleasure obtained therefrom exercise 
a favorable influence upon gastric secretion. It has recently 
been shown that the products of salivary digestion act as 
a stimulua to the flow of gastric juice, and that once the 
process of gastric digestion is initiated, the products of pep- 
tie activity cause the continuance of tiie secretion as long 
as the food remains in the stonoach. The mere mechanical 
irritation caused by the presence of food in the stomach is 
ineffective. Thus white of egg will cause no flow. But cer- 
tain substances, such as meat extracts, bitters and condiments, 
promote secretion. The use of meat broths, gelatin jellies, 
peptones (i. e,, products of gastric digestion), and toast {con- 
taining destrins or products of salivary digestion), at the 
beginning of a meal, or to promote feeble gastric digestion in 
an invalid, is therefore a rational practice. 

ABSOEPTIOH 

While absorption through a permeable animal membrane 
outside the body may be a simple physical process, following 
the ordinary laws of pressure, diffusion, osmosis, etc., the case 



36 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

is far otherwise in the alimentary tract, where the selective 
activity of the living cell becomes a positive factor. The 
pressure in secreting glands rises above blood pressure; sub- 
stances pass inward to the body through the mucous mem- 
brane without a corresponding movement in the opposite di- 
rection. Thus blood serum, placed in a loop of intestine is 
promptly absorbed, but if the loop be surrounded with serum, 
it does not pass in a similar manner into the lumen of the 
section of intestine. 

The stomach is not primarily an absorbing organ, but a few 
substances, such as sugars and peptones, pass to a limited 
extent through its walls. The most important seat of absorp- 
tion is the small intestine, and second, the large intestine. 
Absorption in the small intestine is affected through the in- 
numerable little projections with which the intestine is lined, 
known as villi, which greatly extend the amount of surface. 
These villi contain a capillary network and a so-called lac- 
teal space. The capillaries by converging into larger vessels 
eventually form the portal vein which passes through the 
liver. The lacteal spaces are prolonged into lymphatic ves- 
sels which similarly converge to form the thoracic duct. The 
lacteals are intended almost wholly for the absorption of the 
fats, all other digestive products passing through the liver 
before reaching the general circulation. 

Absorption continues throughout the length of the large 
intestine, being especially favored by antiperistalsis in the 
upper portions. Constipation sometimes results from the 
great absorptive power of this region, the feces being left dry 
and hard and hence difficult to evacuate. 

Absorption of Protein. It was long a matter of doubt as 
to the form in which proteins were absorbed, but there was a 
strong inclination to believe that they were transformed into 
protein before being transported by the blood, because it 
was almost impossible to detect amino acids in the blood or 
tissues. We now know that this was due to the imperfection 
of our chemical methods. It has recently been demonstrated 
by several independent investigators that amino acids are 
absorbed from the intestines, circulate in the blood, and pass 



r 



ABSORPTION 37 

to the tissues, and that the cells of the body are able to take 
them up and use them according to their needs. AnimaJ* 
have been made to store protein when the only nitrogen 
supplied to the blood was in the form of amino acids. 

Traces of protein, proteoses or peptones, may be absorbed 
from the stomach or intestines, but ordinarily the amount is 
negligible. Such products when present in the blood tend 
to pass quickly into the urine. The peculiar idioByncrasy of 
poisoning from such foods as eggs, milk, fish, etc., is thought 
to be due to the influence of traces of absorbed proteins to 
which the subject shows an anaphylactic reaction. 

Absorption of Fat. It is now commonly believed that fat 
is absorbed in the form of the end products of its digestion, 
i. e., fatty acids and glycerine, and that somewhere in the 
intestinal wall these are recombined into neutral fat. It is 
possible that some of the finely emulsified fat is able to pass 
unchanged through the intestinal wall. In either case, mi- 
nute fat droplets pass into the lacteals, and finally into the 
blood stream by way of the thoracic duct. A small portion - 
finds its way directly into the blood. 

Fats having a low melting point are absorbed more quickly 
than solid fats, and pure fat more readily than fat inter- 
mingled with other food principles, as in fat meat. 

Absorption of Carbohydrates. The end products of carbo- 
hydrate digestion pass to the blood by way of tlie portal sys- 
tem. The monosaccharides on reaching the liver enter the 
general circulation as dextrose if required for immediate use; 
otherwise they are stored in the liver in the form of glycogen, 
which can be again transformed into sugar when demanded 
by the system to furnish energy. Sugars are so readily ab- 
sorbed that if taken in large quantities the body may be un- 
able to utilize them, and the excess is excreted in the urine. 
This is especiaUy true in case of an excess of cane sugar or 
milk BHgar. They may be absorbed before digestion, and 
there are no enzymes in the blood capable of converting them 
into dextrose so that they can be burned or stored. Under 
Buch circumstances they are useless and must be gotten rid of. 
If maltose is absorbed too rapidly, it may still be changed to 



^J 



38 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

dextrose by enzymes in the blood or tissues^ and so be utilized. 

Absorption of Mineral Matter, As salts are not digested 
in the ordinary sense of the word, they require nothing more 
than solution in the digestive fluids before absorption. The 
mineral matter is set free from food and diffuses more or less 
rapidly into the surrounding fluids. Common salt is most 
quickly absorbed. The chief locality for absorption is the 
small intestine. The older text books taught that salts 
were absorbed only by diffusion through the intestinal wall, 
which required that another solution must at the same time 
pass from the blood to the intestines until both fluids were 
of the same degree of concentration. It appears, however, 
that in the main, mineral matter is taken up in the intestinal 
wall without diffusion, and as fast as it can be incorporated 
with certain peculiar solvents is absorbed into the blood. 

Absorption of Water. Water it not absorbed by the stom- 
ach, but passes quickly in little spurts (if taken alone) into 
the intestines. Here it is very rapidly absorbed; it may be 
excreted through the kidneys within twenty minutes after 
ingestion. The rapidity of absorption may be considerably 
influenced by mineral matter dissolved in the water. 

Summary. Absorption is an active, not a passive process. 
It takes place mainly in the intestines, the larger part before 
the food reaches the ileo-cecal valve. 

Proteins are absorl^ed by the villi, chiefly in the form of 
amino acids and pass through the portal vein to the liver. 

Fats are absorbed by the lacteals, chiefly in the form of 
fatty acids and glycerine, but pass to the lymphatics as nen« 
tral fat, and enter the blood stream from the thoracic duct. 

Carbohydrates are absorbed by the villi in the form of su- 
gar (chiefly dextrose) and pass through the portal vein to 
the liver. 

TJnabsorbed material passes out as part of the feces (see 
Excretion, page 53). Undigested proteins, fats and car- 
bohydrates are liable to attack by putrefactive and fermenta- 
tive organisms in the intestines. The products of such bac- 
terial action are absorbed to a considerable extent. Carbohy- 
drates which escape digestion tend to produce lactic and 



METABOLISM 39 

other acids. This fermentation is not altogether an evil, 
for it checks the putrefaction of undigested meat. The latter 
is imdeairahle, as the products are likely to prove tosic. It 
is for this reason that lactic acid, especially in the form of 
huttermilk and artificially fermented sour milk, is largely 
employed as a remedial agent in intestinal indigestion. 

METABOUSM 

Metabolism is the sum of the cliemical changes taking place 
in the cells of the body in connection with all biological 
processes, including growth, repair and waste, generation and 
maintenance of heat, all manifestations of functional activity, 
storage of surplus nutriment, etc. It comprises two phases, 
anaholism and kataholism. 

Anabolism embraces the changes involved in the upbuilding 
of the cells, and corresponds in a general way to nutrition. 
Assimilation is the selective act of the cells in appropriating 
the special form of nutriment in the circulating blood which 
is suited for their needs. The special phases of anabolism 
comprise the assimilation of nitrogen for growth and repair 
of protoplasm, the storage of a certain amount of fat and 
carbohydrate, the assimilation of oxygen for maintenance of 
heat and functional activity, and the retention of inorganic 
salts in the bones and other tissues. 

Katabolism comprises the changes involved in the contin- 
nons molecular waste of the cells; in the constant oxidation 
going on in the tissues resulting in the maintenance of animal 
heat; in the exercise of muscular, nervous and secretory ac- 
tivity; and perhaps in the breaking up of protein into 
oxidizable carbohydrates and nitrogenous waste products. 
We speak less of the acts of katabolism than of the products 
of katabolism, which are a measure of those acts. The chief 
of these products are: (1) urea, the chief form of excretion of 
nitrogen, and (2) carbon dioxide and water, which represent 
the products of energy-yielding oxidations. 

Elimination is the escape or expulsion of the products of 



40 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

katabolism from the tissues into the blood, and corresponds 
to disassimilation or denutrition. Excretion is the final ex- 
pulsion of the end products of katabolism from the excretory 
organs and includes the expulsion of unabsorbed aliment by 
the bowel. 

In the case of certain products of metabolism, it is hardly 
possible to state positively whether they represent anabolism 
or katabolism. Here belong especially the substances formed 
in connection with secretion, as the digestive enzymes, the 
hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the iodothyrin of the 
thyroid gland and the adrenalin of the suprarenal gland. In 
all likelihood both factors participate, for certain substances 
must be assimilated from the food to form these bodies which 
in turn are set free in the blood. It is also true that some 
of these substances act by their mere presence, without ap- 
parent waste (catalytic action). 

Metabolism of Protein. A relatively small proportion of 
protein is normally disposed of by oxidation for energy-forma- 
tion, when carbohydrates and fats enter fully into the diet. 
But in their absence, protein, by virtue of the fact that it con- 
tains the elements of carbohydrates and fats (carbon, hydro- 
gen and oxygen) in its molecule, can furnish all the heat and 
force required. Certain savages subsist wholly on meat and 
remain in good health, and in the so-called Salisbury treat- 
ment of obesity, etc., it can be demonstrated at will that a 
patient may subsist for weeks on raw beef without apparent 
detriment, provided plenty of water is drunk, the excess of 
water aiding in the elimination of unutilized nitrogen. 

When absorbed protein reaches the liver, a large part of the 
nitrogen is split off and excreted as urea. The remaining 
portion goes to make good the small daily waste of body 
protein. The portion of the protein molecule left after the 
nitrogen is split off is available as fuel. When carbohydrates 
and fats are liberally supplied, so that protein is not required 
for fuel, the daily amount needed is comparatively small. 
Even when the body is losing nitrogen rapidly, as in certaia 
fevers, it has been found that this is partly because the body 



METABOLISM 41 

protein is being used as fuel, and the loss can be largely 
prevented by furnisiiing more energy in the form of carbo- 
hydrate or fat. Much confusion has arisen because the excess 
of nitrogen in the diet is to some extent identical in form 
with the waste products of cellular activity. Besides urea, 
some of the chief nitrogenous products of protein metaboliem 
are ammonium salts, uric acid, cieatin and creatinin. 

The non-nitrogenoua portion of protein may be burned or 
possibly stored, but the nitrogen excess must be eliminated. 
Because of the fact that excess of nitrogen throws work on the 
kidneys, it is assumed that an excessive protein diet is injuri- 
ous to the integrity of these organs. This is evident in dis- 
eased kidneys, but cannot be proved for healthy organs. 
However, it seems unnecessary to consume a great excess of 
protein and perhaps unwise, owing to the great frequency of 
fatal kidney diseases. At any late, except where protein is 
specially advantageous for ease of digestion, it is unnecessary 
to make it a large part of the diet. 

Metabolism of Fat. Fat, which is passed into the blood 
from the thoracic duct, is carried over the body and deposited 
in many organs and tissues, nnlcss needed for immediate use 
as a source of energy, in which case it is oxidized to carbon 
dioxide and water. It has been shown that diet-fat may be 
deposited in the body in the same form as eaten, but ih& 
readiest means of forming body fat is usually to give an. 
excess of carbohydrate. The ease with which carbohydrates; 
form fat is shown in the case of cows which produce large; 
quantities of butter fat on an herbivorous diet. It t& aJsoi 
possible to form fat from protein, but it is difficult, as a con- 
siderable part of the energy of the protein molecule goes to 
get rid of the nitrogen, and protein increases the rate of metab- 
olism. We know very little of the details of fat metabolism. 
Some investigators hold that it must be converted into dex- 
trose before it can be oxidized. As already stated, an excess 
of carbohydrate may be stored ia the form of fat. 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates. The blood maintains a con- 
stant sugar content of about 0.8 per cent. As fast as thi" 



1 



42 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

sugar is oxidized, it is replaced by more from the store of 
glycogen in the liver and muscles, or from newly-formed 
sugar of recently digested food. The final products of carbo- 
hydrate oxidation are carbon dioxide and water, but several 
intermediate products (as lactic acid) are first formed^ prob« 
ably by the action of enzymes. 

When the body is unable to store any more carbohydrate as 
glycogen, all further storage of excess is in the form of fat. 

AVlien sugar is lacking in the blood, as in starvation or 
failure to utilize carbohydrates, the sugar content is main- 
tained at the expense of protein. This explains why the dia- 
betic who is eating no carbohydrate, may still excrete sugar 
in the urine. There is some experimental evidence that su- 
gar may be formed also from fat. At any rate, fat is oxidized 
in absence of carbohydrate, and whether it is first changed to 
sugar, or oxidized directly, it is a compact means of storing 
energy, since one gram of fat will yield 2^ times as much 
as an equal amount of protein or carbohydrate. 

EXCBETION 

The waste products of metabolism and all unutilized food, 
along with the products of oxidation, are eliminated from the 
system in several ways. Water escapes through the lungs^ 
skin and kidneys. Aside from the obvious fiuid perspiration, 
a steady evaporation takes place from the skin (insensible 
perspiration). The carbon dioxide produced by oxidation 
escapes by the lungs, and nitrogenous products of protein me- 
tabolism by the urine. The feces in health are made up 
•of the secretions and excretions of the alimentary tract, bac- 
teria, indigestible food waste, and a little undigested food 
material. When there is excessive putrefaction of the fecal 
matter, some of the soluble material is absorbed and elimi- 
nated in the urine. Generally speaking, putrefaction (of 
nitrogenous food) and fermentation (of carbohydrates) hold 
each other in check. Starving people pass feces, thus show- 
ing that the bowel is a true excretory organ. 



CHAPTER III 

FOOD VALUES 

mTEOGEN BALANCE — ENEHGT VALUE OF FOOD 

We are now in position to understand something of food 
values, which depend on the food actually utilized in the body, 
to the exclusion of food unabsorbed, or eliminated because in 
exceEB of the demands of the system. Energy-yielding ma- 
terial which ia not used at the time may be stored, but be- 
yond a certain point, stored nutriment must be regarded as 
undesirable, as in obese subjects. 

As stated by Atwater, the food supplies body wants in five 
ways: (1) tissue-building, (2) tissue-repairing, (3) storage 
for future use, (4) oxidation to maintain animal heat and (5) 
oxidation to supply energy ; or Tne may say that according to 
function, foods are classified as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. (See page 4.) 

miEOGEIT BALANCE OE KITEOOEK EQUILIBBrDK 

In body building and repairing, the nitrogen of protein 
food is indispensable. In the other functions, nitrogen is not 
utilized. Carbohydrates and fats are the natural and con- 
venient sources of energy, although the protein contains in 
itaelf Don-nitrogenous material cnpable of oxidation. As al- 
ready stated, however, to depend largely upon protein for 
oxidizable food means the ingestion of an enormous quantity 
of unnecessary nitrogen, the getting rid of which involves 
waste of energy and is thought to necessitate a strain upon 
the excretory system. Furthermore, when the diet consists 
chiefly of protein, much of the latter may not be digested and 
absorbed as such, but may remain in the intestine, there to 



44 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

undergo putrefactiTe changes. In the course of pntrefaction 
certain soluble poisonous substances form and are absorbed, 
requiring elimination by the kidneys. The excess of nitrogen 
which cannot be utilized in tissue repair must also be elimi- 
nated by the kidneys. Thus while people may thrive on a 
diet rich in protein, there is considerable evidence that vital- 
ity^ endurance and resistance to disease are better attained 
with a diet in which the fuel foods (carbohydrates and fats) 
predominate. n 

Nitrogen cannot be stored to any extent and is constantly 
eliminated in the urine as urea and other nitrogenous sub- 
stances. AMien the diet-nitrogen corresponds in amount with 
the eliminated nitrogen, the metabolism of nitrogen is bal- 
anced, or in a state of equilibrium. If too small a quantity 
of nitrogenous food is taken it does not compensate for the 
waste of body nitrogen which is inseparable from life. The 
same thing occurs when for any reason the food nitrogen is 
not absorbed, or is eliminated without being utilized. This 
condition of nitrogen starvation is characteristic of under- 
feeding, wasting diseases, defective assimilation, etc Con- 
versely equilibrium between food nitrogen and excreted ni- 
trogen represents good nutrition, health and energy ; for while 
nitrogen cannot be permanently stored, it is possible for a 
balance to be maintained over long periods. It was onoe 
taught that increased elimination of nitrogen was due chiefly 
to the waste of tissue incidental to prolonged and severe 
muscular or nervous effort ; at a later period, however, it be- 
came apparent that this waste was comparatively little, and 
constant for the individual regardless of the amount of muscu- 
lar exercise, so that the urea nitrogen depends chiefly on the 
amount of diet nitrogen. The loss of nitrogen in wasting 
disease, starvation, etc., is, however, extensive ; so that in con- 
valescence the body is able to store some nitrogen. 

Nitrogen retention is greatly facilitated in all cases by a 
liberal supply of carbohydrates and fats. 

Nitrogen metabolism can hardly be studied in the ordinary 
patient^ on account of the number and variety of tests which 



ENERGY VALUE 45 

muat be accurately made, so that our only guide is the results 
of scientific investigation of the amounts of nitrogen required 
under given conditions, and the general well-being of the 
enbject. If weight is maintained, along with a healthy state 
of functions, the ration in question la suitable for the sub- 
ject tested. If the individual be in the growing period, the 
ration should be such that the growth rate is normal. If 
he be a convalescent, the recovery of the original weight should 
be constantly progressive. Of late years, however, the em- 
phasis on nitrogen values alone has been largly superseded 
by greater attention to total fuel values as being of greater 
practical worth. It is known that a relatively small and 
easily obtained quantity of nitrogen is sufficient to repair waste 
in the average individual, but the food required for producing 
energy is very significant in amnunt. With a liberal supply 
of carbohydrates and fats, the ordinary daily waste of nitrogen 
in one adult may be reduced as low as 3 to 4 grams daily 
(corresponding to 20 to 25 grams of protein). 

To insure a full supply of nitrogen, and to maintain ni- 
trogen equilibnum at a higher level than the bare maintenance 
requirement, considerably more than this amount is commonly 
taken. From 80 to 100 grama of protein per day is re- 
garded as a liberal supply for an average man (weighing 70 
kilograms or 154 lbs.) on an ordinary mixed diet of suitable 
energy value. 

IHZ EKEEaT TAIinB OF POOD 
In Liebig's time it was recognized that animal heat was 
generated by carbohydrates and fats, but the physiologists of 
that day did not realize that th€ae were the nutrients which 
furnislied the body with energy for its activity. They 
thought that all muscular work was done at tlie expense of 
"Utrogenous material. It has taken many years for us to 
realize fully that animal energy in all its forms is derived 
primarily from carbohydrate material, secondly from fata, and 
thirdly from proteins only in so far as they yield combustible, 
non-nitrogenous bodies. 



1 



46 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Energy may be defined as the power to do work. This 
force manifests itself in different ways. It may be latent, 
or inactive; or it may be active in varions forms, such as 
heat; chemical or electrical energy; or mechanical moyement, 
which we call work. It may be changed from one of these 
forms into another without loss. The most convenient way to 
measure energy is by transforming it into heat. A unit has 
been devised to express different amounts of heat, correspond- 
ing to a definite number of work units; this is called the 
calorie. One calorie represents the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water one degree 
Centigrade. This is called the large calorie, which is com- 
monly used in determining the energy value of food. The 
small calorie is tuW of a large calorie. 

Energy cannot be created. "We must put into any machine 
as much force as we expect to get from it. Even in the most 
efficient machine we cannot recover all of the energy in the 
form of useful work; some of it is always transformed into 
heat, owing to friction. This is true even in the body, which 
is a most efficient machine, but here much of the waste energy 
in the form of heat is turned to good account in maintaining 
the body temperature. 

The source of energy for the body is food, just as much as 
the source of energy for the engine is coal. Plants store up 
the sun's energy, it is transferred to animals which eat the 
plants, and eventually man gets it by eating the plant and 
animal foods. The amount of energy in any given food ma^ 
terial is measured by the amount of heat which it will pro- 
duce. In general, this is the same, whether the food be 
burned outside or inside the body, the total result in any case 
depending upon the amount of the food-stuff which is utilized 
by the body. 

An instrument devised for the measurement of heat is 
called a calorimeter. To determine the fuel value of any 
food material outside of the body, a given amount is placed 
in a calorimeter, where it is burned in an atmosphere of pure 
oxygen, in a vessel surrounded by water. The heat generated 



ENERGY VALUE 47 

Taisee the temperature of the water, and the change ia ob- 
served with a. very delicate thermometer. From this the 
total heat evolved is calculated. To determine the fuel value 
of this material within the body, the average amount which 
is lost in digestion, or wliich ia not completely oxidized before 
excretion, is deducted from the fuel value outside the body. 
The result is the physiological fuel value. Many years ago, 
Eubner determined averages for proteins, fats, and carbohy- 
drates from experiments on dogs. In recent times, further 
experiments made in this country on human subjects by Prof. 
Atwater and his associates have modified these factors some- 
what. The following are therefore accepted as the average 
.energy values of food in the body to-day : 

1 gram of Protein yields 4 Calories 

Nl gram of Fnt yickla 9 Cnloriea 
1 gram of Carbohydrate . . . yields 4 Coloriea 
letermhtation op esurgt vaice op food 
To determine the energy value of a given amount of any 
food, it ia necessary to know first its composition, i, e,, the 
percentages of protein, fat, and carbohydrate present. Tables 
are available giving the results of many analyses, as in Bulle- 
tin 28, Office of Experiment Station, ITnited States Dept. of 
Agriculture, 'Washington, D. C, "The Chemical Composi- 
tion of American Food Materials." 

Second. From these percentages to determine the weight 
of proteia fat and carbohydrate in grams, which can be ob- 
tained from a given amount of the food material. 

Third. To multiply these weights by the energy value of 
one gram of each of the three food principles. 

By way of illustration let us find the fuel value of one loaf 
of bread, weighing IS ounces. 

(1) By referring to Bulletin 28, we find that white bread 
(rolBcellaneous) yields on the average, 



1),3 % proldn. 
1.2 % tat. 
B2.7 % carbohydrate. 



48 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

(2) To get the weight of protein, fat and carbohydrate in 
grams, we must first convert the total weight of bread into 
grams, 

1 oz. = 28.35 grams. 
12 oz. = 340.2 grams. 
Then 340.2 X 0.093 = 31.64 grams of protein. 
340.2 X 0.012 = 4.08 grams of fat. 
340.2 X 0.527 = 179.28 grams of carbohydrate. . 

(3) ]\rultiplying the amount of each nutrient by the proper 
factor, 

31.04 f,'rnms protein X 4 = 126.56 Calories 

4.08 grams fat X 9 = 36.72 Calories 

170.28 grams carbohydrate X 4 = 717.12 Calories 

Total 880.40 Calories 

ITonce the total energy value of 1 loaf of bread weighing 12 
ounces is 880.4 calorics. 

To calculate the total energy value of any combination of 
foods, it is necessary to compute the fuel value of each in- 
gredient, and take tlie sum of the whole group. 

Thus for Egg Broth, page 118, it is necessary first to get 
the weiglit in grams of each of the following ingredients and 
then to estimate their energy value as indicated above. 

Yolk of 1 egg =: 13 grams. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 15 grams. 

1 cup milk = 244 grams. 

1 tablespoon brandy = 14 grams. 

In this book the food values of all the materials used have 
been incorporated into a table, so that by reference to this 
the value of any combination is quickly made. 

Yolk of 1 ogg = 48 Calories. 

1 tablespoon sugar =^ 60 Calories. 

1 cup milk = 169 Calories. 

1 tablespoon brandy i = 42 Calories. 

Total energy value 319 Calories. 

^The energy value of alcohol is 7 calorieg per gram. It is necessary, 
therefore, to know the per cent, of alcohol in any liqaor. 



r 



ENERGY REQUIREMENT 49 

To estimate the fuel value of any diet, it is simply necessary 
to compute the food value of each food material used and add 
the results together. 

To estimate the fuel Talue of an infant's diet, the following 
formula, adapted to the above factors for energy value from 
friedenwald and Buhrah's Diet in Health and Disease, is 
very convenient. 

Formula for calculating the Calories of Any Period of 
Infant Feeding: 



The sum of 1 and 3 gives the total calories. 

Quantity ^ 24-hour amount in ounces. F, S and P ^= 
fat, sugar, and protein respectively, with pereents in whole 
numbers. 

To illustrate, take a formula of the following composition: 

Protein 0.7% 



Feedings per day 9, amount at each finding 11^ oz. 
Hence Q = 13.5 oz. (0 X 1>4) 



<1) Q. X P X 2.85 = 13.5 X 2.7 X 2.05 = B8.6 Cal. 
(2) Q. X (S + P) X 1.18=13.5 X (6 + 0.7) X 1.18= 106.7 Cal. 
86.6 + 108.7 = 203.3 Cal., total for day. 

THE ENEAOY REttUIEEUEKTS OF THE BOST 
Work goes on continually in the living body, whether asleep 
or awake, idle or active, sick or well. In the resting body it 
consists of such internal work as that of digestion and abairp- 
tion, circulation, respiration, muscular tension, and intracellu- 
lar work. 

In youth these functions are more active than in adult life; 
Id old age they are somewhat less active. 



50 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

For a man of average weight (154 lbs. or 70 kg.) from 
1600 to 2000 cal. daily are required to supply energy for 
these internal activities. Children require somewhat more in 
proportion to their body weight, aged persons somewhat less. 
Beyond this, the factor of most significance in determining the 
total food requirement for any individual is the amount of 
muscular activity. A man requiring 100 cal. per hour at 
rest may by hard work raise his energy requirement as high 
as 500 or 600 cal. per hour. For this reason a person en- 
gaged in a sedentary occupation needs less food than one 
whose work is physical, as a farmer or lumberman. Children 
are usually more active than adults, and hence in proportion 
to their weight require more food, while inactive aged per- 
sons require very little. 

Averages obtained from many observations on the amount 
of food consumed by individuals under different conditions, 
show that the energy requirement of the active man of 70 
kgs. body weight is approximately 3000 calories. 

In making estimates for any individual, age, weight, size 
and shape, season and climate, mechanical efficiency, etc., 
must be considered as well as muscular activity. 

During the early months of life, children require about 100 
cal. per kilogram of body weight. Throughout the years of 
childhood, they need about 80 calories per kilogram. The 
adult moderately active, 35-40 cal. per kilogram, and the 
very aged, about 27 cal. per kilogram. 

** The following table, computed by Rubner, shows the daily 
heat consumption, in units of heat (calories) in an adul^ 
weighing 65 kilograms or 140 Ibs.^' 

During rest in bed. . 1800 calories or 28 Cal. per kilogram. 

In repose 2100 calories or 32 Cal. per kilogram. 

In light work 2300 calories or 33 Cal. per kilogram. 

In moderate work . . 2600 calories or 40 Cal. per kilogram. 
In hard work 3100 calories or 48 Cal. per kilogram. 

The total energy requirement for individuals under diflfer- 
enl conditions of age, weight, and activity are approximately 
as indicated in the following table: 



ENEIiGY EEQUITtEMENT 61 

EflEBOY FEB DAT 
CONDITIOKB IN CALOaiES 

Man at light work 2500-2800 Cal. 

Man at moderate work 3000-3500 Cal. 

Man at very hard work 4000-5000 Cal, 

Woman at light work lSOO-2400 Cal. 

Woman at moderate work 2400-2800 Cal. 

Child from two to six 1200-1800 Cal. 

Child from six to fifteen 1800-2500 Cal. 

Aged Man 1800-2000 Cal. 

Aged Woman lGOO-1800 Cal. 

The most convenient means of calculating the energy value 
ia afforded by the following fable, determined for the adult 
man of average weight. 

AVEEAGE 1T0B.KAL OUTPITE OF HEAT JHOU IBS BODY 

co;fi>moK3 OP musci;lab Acixviry calories pea 

Man at rest, sleeping 05 Calories 

Man at rest, awake, sitting up 100 Calories 

Man at light muscular exercise 170 Calories 

Man at moderately active muscular exercise . . 200 Calories 

Man at severe muscular exercise 450 Calories 

Man at very severe muscular exerciao flOO Calories 

To illustrate the use of thia table. Jet ua calculate the 
energy rcfiuiremcnt of a woman weighing 120 lbs., under 
the following conditions : 

Sleeps hours OX 85 = 585 Cal. 

Works at desk 8 Iioura 8 X 100 = 800 Cal. 

Walks or does light exercise 3 hri 3X170 = 510 CaL 

Beada or sits quietly sewing 4 lirs 4 X 100^=400 Cal. 

2205 Cal.' 

Since these factors are for a man weighing 154 lbs., for a 
woman of 120 lbs. under above conditions, reduce this pro- 
portionately to her weight, 

154 : 120 : : 2895 i X 

X^ 1788 cal. — total energy requirement for 
a woman of 120 lbs., under the above conditions. 




52 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

The protein requirement is conyeniently estimated by pro- 
Tiding 10-12 per cent of the day's energy in the form of 
protein. Thus for a man whose energy requirement is 3000 
cal. per day, 360 cal. from protein (12 per cent.) would 
correspond to 90 grams of protein, which would be a fairly 
liberal allowance. 

A tall thin person requires more food than a short fat 
person of equal weight. Also, the person of nervous tem- 
permanent, in whom muscular tension is high, may require 
more food than one of phlegmatic temperament. More en- 
ergy is lost in the form of heat in cold weather than in warm. 
Because of the numerous factors involved in any case, it is 
possible to calculate the absolute energy requirement only 
by rigid scientific experiment. The tables given above, how- 
ever, are a useful guide to the approximate amount of food 
required by different individuals. 

As an aid to easy estimation of the food value of any diet, 
the following tables have been introduced, showing the nutri- 
tive value of the food materials used in the recipes in this 
book, calculated for the quantities commonly required in 
cooking for individuals. 

The values for larger amounts will be easily obtained by 
simple multiplication. 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



53 



K^ TABLE SHOVinG THE nUTRITIVE VALUE O? THE FOOD MATERIALS 
B irSED IN THE RECIPES IM THIS BOOK, CALCULATED FOR THE QOAN- 

K TITIES COMMONLY REQUIRED IN COOKING SMALL PORTIONS' 



Food Matehial. 
(UDHwkad, unlesa 
otharwiH nsUd) 


£ 


1 

ft 


1 


^ 


|e 


1 


A 




Oh, 


Cm.. 


dm.. 


c™. 


<3mt. 


CbI- 




















lOsnlU 




10 




S.49 


1.7: 




E. P." 




*\ 












■■ E. P 


lib. 


IS 


*53.8 


B5.26 


249.03 


78.47 


2936 


Appl«a6%Ciir.') 
















■■ Raw 


I medium 


« 


150 


0.6 


0.5 


16.0 


70 


■■ Frat. E. P. . . . 






453.8 




2.27 


64.0 




■■ S»uoB, Cooked . . 


2tb«p. 


1 


28.35 


0.071 




B.85 


30 


Apricou (1S% Car.'l 
















Dried, Slewed . . 


Icup 


V7 










lOO 


Dried, Bused . . 


IfUR 


S 


ua 


o.e 


1.4 




391 


■ ■' I>ried.A.P.t . . 


lib. 




453.6 




4.54 


2S3.5( 








n.n> 












■■ Fr«b. A. P. . . . 


lib. 




453.6 


4.99 




00.70 


263 




llb.p. 


i 


14.17 






13.65 


SS 


















Freah .... 


SniUka 


* 






.24 




2G.2 


Fnah .... 


Ibuuh 


(SI 


1247 

lbs.) 


22.4 


2.4 


41.0 


276 



' Th« msleriidii are measurBd in atutdHrd S-oun« 
The meuum ■» eisclly level unleH otherwine state 
wdcbU, vkd ibbivvUtioiu. 

■The weiiihte uaiined ta the 
mlDad sanfulljr. but sre the mull 

be nfmrded la only approximate. _..„. 

to bawltUiiClialiinlu of emirafiiomputetlonsmHcla on average SDslyiiia of food-nuffa. 
A number of the valueiitaud are baaed upon the tables of Alwalcrs aod Dryant. Schidl 
sod Heiiler. Amold'e Diet Chart, Dr. wTColemaD. Hill and Eclcman. 

Many ot the pound eajmilaticnia in tbia talile us quoted from Dr. Ron's "Laborft- 
Uny Manual of Dieletioa." publlBbed by Macmillan Co.. New York. 

■ CBibohydratM — Forliat of foodaanansed appmiiinBlcly to percent of carbohy- 
drate* note pue 371 . For liit of fooja to order of their carbohydrate content from the 

* Flv«-per-cent thnrc-cook^ (boiled) vegelablei are considered carbohydrate free. 
FlTe-tHr-ceot vciFtables (cooked) "100 irams" m meuured "2 hea)ilDa tbap." 
sItbouBta ID reality the wsicbl vsnoa uliihily- 






M 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



A — iConiinued) 

Asparagus, Canned . . . . 
" Canned . . . . 

B 

Bacon, Raw 

" Cw»ked 

'• Raw 

Bananas (20 <~. Car.) 
li 

Barloy, IViirl 

IVarl 

I'rtjMhiMl 

l-'lnur 

Flour 

BaHs. 10. V 

'• K. V 

Beans (20% Car.) 

'* Baked, Cannod . . 
" Dried, Raw .... 
" Dried, A. P 

Bean<), Butter 

'* Lima, Canned . . . 
" Lima, Canned . . . 
*' Lima, Dried .... 
•• Lima, Fresh, E. P. . 

Beans, String (i) % Car.) 
It 

String, Fresh, E. P. . 

Bean Flour 

" Flour 

Bean, Soy Bean Flour . . 
" Soy Bean Flour . . . 



X 



s 

a 



On, Cms. 



i cup 
5 stalks 



2 slices 
2 slices 
1 lb. 



1 medium 

1 tbsp. 
1 lb. 
1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 ser^-ing 
1 lb. 



1 cup 
i cup 
1 lb. 

1 serving 

1 lb. 

2 tbsp. 
i cup 



1 serving 
21 cups (1 
in. pieces) 

I tbsp. 
1 cup 

I tbsp. 
1 cup 



4 
7 



113.4 
200 



I 



A 



16 



I 



28.35 

10 : 

453.6 - 



3i - 100 



16 



i 

8 

34 
16 



8.22: 
3.5 
16 

3 

4.58; 
16 
1.01 
2.88 



4 
8.50 



i 



14.17 
453.6 
14.17 
14.17: 
227 

100 
453.6 



233.4 



Gum. 

1.72 
3.0 



2.2 

2.0 

43.0 



0.8 

1.3 

38.55 

LI 

1.3 

19.0 

18.6 
84.3 



16.11 



100 : 22.5 
453.6 .102.06 



85 



7.9 






Onts. 

0.12 
0.20 



13.7 

6.0 

269.4 



0.4 

0.2 

4.78 

0.1 

0.2 

2.5 

2.8 
12.6 



i 

i 



S fl 

o 



Onu. 

3.16 
5.6 



129.7 


5.19 


453.6 


1S.14 


28.6 


5.17 


81.5 


5.97 


113 


2.4 


241.0 


5.54 


8 


1.8 


125 


29.3 


4 


0.35 


64 


5.6 



5.85 

1.8 

8.16 

0.51 
0.39 
1.36 
0.43 
0.57 



0.3 
0.72 



0.1 
2.3 

0.15 
2.4 



14.0 

11.7 

352.90 

11.3 

12.5 

174.3 



45.75 
59.6 
270.34 

24.7 

18.94 

66.21 

18.85 

17.93 



5.8 
17.83 



4.8 
77.5 

0.08 
1.28 



P 

•a 
< 
> 



Cah- 
ria 

206 
36 



132 

62 

2507 



64 

54 

1610 

51 

67 

796 

106 
452 



309 

350 

1564 

134.9 
100 
350 
100 
100 . 



44 
100 



28 
448 

30 
480 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



Beef. Driad. Snltad. 
Smokwl, E. P. . 

B«ef, Dried. Sailed, 
Smoked, E. P. . 

Beef Juice .... 
■■ Soup .... 

Beef Murow .... 
Beef Roast, Cooked 



Top of Round . 



Beeta (10% Car.) 
" Cooked. . . 
■' Fredi,E.P. . 



Frath.E. P. . . 
t GiMU (S% Cu.) 



56 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



a 

p 

OQ 



B — (jContinued) 
Blackberries (10% Car.) 



I cup 



Blue Fish, E. P ;1 serving 

. . . .;Hb. 



<t •• «« •• 



Brandy 'l tbsp. 



Bran 



1 cup 



BrazU Nuts (10% Car.) 

" Shelled . . . 1 nut 

" Chopped . . . !l tbsp. 

•• Shelled, E. P. . il lb. 



Bread, White '1 slice 

f in. thick 
White . . . 
Crumbs (White) 
Boston Brown 



Gluten 



1 loaf 
1 cup 
1 small 
slice 
1 slice 



Gluten ;1 loaf 

Graham 1 slice 



Butter 



Butternuts (5% Car.) 
E. P. . 
E. P. . 



Cabbage. E. P. 

Shredded . 
E. P. . . 



} lb. (1 

cup) 

1 tbsp. 



4-5 nuts 
lib. 



a 



. 5 cups 



lllb. 



Cantaloupe, A. P :1 melon 

(4} in. in 
diam.) 



On, 



Om». 



6.10 173.0 



3* 
16 



2} 



I 



100 
453.6 

14.17 

71 



16 



12 

41 
1 

1 

13 

1 

8 
i 



0.52 
16 



11.20 
16 

18 



453.6 



Gnu. 

2.25 

10.4 
87.8 



I 



7.8 



1.2 

3.6 

76.9 



Gum. 

1.73 

1.2 
6.4 



I 



Gnu. 



18.85 



28.35. 2.6 

! 

I 

340 ' 31.6 

136 12.6 

28.35* 1.5 



28.35 8.4 

386.5 114.0 

28.35! 2.5 



227 



1.5 



4.7 

14.2 

302.8 

0.3 

4.1 
1.6 
0.5 

0.3 
4.0 
0.51 



43.4 



0.01 
0.1 



p 

i 

P 



CA- 



31j6 310 



100 

» 

401 

43 

218 



47 
142 



15.0 

179.3 
71.7 
13.3 



2.2 193.0 



14.17 0.1 



14.8 
453.6 



317.5 
453.6 

510.2 



4.13 
126.55 



12.1 



j 9.05 
'277.60 



73 

881 

352 

64 



8.5 70 

116.3 957 

14.7 73 



1744 
109 



0.52 100 
15.86 3060 



I 



5.08 0.95 17.78 
7.25 1.36 , 25.40 



1.53 



23.5 



100 
143 

100 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



57 



Food Matbiual 
(Unoooked. unless 
otherwise stated) 



C — (Continued) 

Carrots (10% Car.) 

E. P 

Cooked. E. P. , 
E. P 

Cauliflower (5% Car.) 

E. P. . . . 

It 

Cooked, E. P. 

Celery (6% Car.) 

•• E. P 

•* Uncooked . . . 



Cheese, American . . 

" American (Fresh 

Grated) . . 

Cottage . . . 

Cream . . . 

Neufch&tel . 

Cherries (16% Car.) 

Stoned . . 

Chestnuts (40% Car.) 

" Uncooked . . 

Chicken, E. P. . . . 
E. P. . . . 

Chocolate. Unsweetened 
" Unsweetened 

Clams, E. P 

" E. P 

Clam Bouillon . . . 
Claret (10% Alcohol) 



d 

S 



1 small 

2 hp. tbsp. 
lib. 



1 serving 

1 lb. 

2 hp. tbsp. 

1 serving 
6 pieces 4} 
in. long or 
I cup 1 in 
pieces 

1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 
} block 



I cup 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 square 
lib. 

1 serving 
1 cup 

1 serving 
1 quart 



1 tbsp. 



I 



0X8. 

2 

3.5 
16 



4 
16 
3.5 



2 
3.5 



I 



1 
1 



3.5 

3} 
16 

1 
16 

3i 
11.5 

3i 
32 



Oma. 

57 
100 
453.4 



113 

453.4 

100 



57 
100 



14.17 

28.35 
28.35 
24 
28.35 



28.35 

100 

100 
453.6 

28.35 
453.6 

100 
326.0 

100 
906 



14.17 



Oma. 

0.5 
1.1 
4.99 



2.0 

8.16 

1.8 



0.6 
1.1 



4.0 

8.0 
5.9 
6.1 
5.3 



0.28 

6.2 

21.4 
97.5 

3.6 
58.5 

8.6 
21.19 

0.2 
2.0 



1 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Oma, 


Oma. 


• • • • 


4.2 


0.4 


9.3 


1.81 


42.18 


0.6 


5.2 


2.27 


21.32 


0.5 


4.7 


• • • • 


1.9 


• « ■ • 


3.3 


5.0 


• • • « 


10.0 


• • • • 


0.2 


1.2 


8.1 


0.6 


7.78 


0.42 


0.23 


4.7 


5.4 


42.1 


2.5 


• • • • 


11.3 


• • • • 


13.8 


8.5 


20.9 


137.4 


1.0 


2.0 


1.3 


13.69 


■ • • ■ 


0.2 


0.8 


1.6 


• • • • 


• • • • 



B 



Calo- 
rxea 

20 

45 

205 



35 

138 

33 



11 
17 



62 

124 

31 
100 

92.8 



22 

243 

108 
492 

173 
2772 

51 
151 

2 

23 

10 



58 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(L'ocooked. uoIeaB 
othenriae stated) 



C — {Continutti) 



2 

2 



Ou. 



Cocoa 



2t«p. 
1 tbsp. 
lib. 






16 



Cod. Fresh, E. P 1 aennng 3J 

'• Fresh. E. P 1 lb. 16 

Cod Fish. Salt, Boneless . . 1 9er\iDg j 2 

" Salt. Boneless . . 1 lb. 16 

! 

Condensed Milk. Sweetened . : 1 tap. A 

Sweetened. 1} tbep. ; 1 

Sweetened . 1 can ' 16 

ConsoQim6 1 serving . 3} 

!l quart 32 



Gwu. 

3.5 
7 
453.6 



I 






Omi. Gwu 



100 
453.6 

67 



I 



a76 

1.5 
97.96 

16JS 
74.8 

15.7 



453.6 125.6 



11 I 0.9 

28.35: 2.3 

453.6 36.3 



Corn (20''oCur.) 
A. P. . . 



' 1 ear (6 in. 4.5 

I long) I 
Canned 2 tbsp. 1 



** Gunned Il cup 

Cornflukos, Toasted . . . . 1 i cups 



Cornmoal, Cooked . 
A. P. . 
A. P. . 



Cornstarch, Uncooked 
" Uncooked 



Com Syrup 



• • • • 



Crackers, Graham . 
Water . . 
Oyster. . 



• • • 



Cracker Crumbs 



• • • • 



I cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cracker 
1 cracker 

1 cup 



9 



100 
906 



2.5 
23.0 



127.5 1.5 



28.35 
253 



0.99 27.8 1.53 



0.79 
7.8 



6.0 
0.33 
5. 
16 

I 
51 

1 
16 



170.1 2.5 
9.45 0.87 
141.75! 13.05 



453.6 

10 
156 

28.35 
448 

9.45 

9.45 

28.35 

151 



41.73 



0.94 

1.2 

3.20 

16.5 



1.02 
2.0 
131.10 

a4 

0.2 
1.4 

1.0 

2.7 

43.7 






B 

> 

i 

D 



Omu. 



rim 



1.33 17i 
2.5 I 36 
171.00!22Ji6 

70 
315 



64 
515 

37 

96 

1541 

18 
106 



6.0 

15.6 

250.6 

0.4 
3.5 



0.50 

0.34 
3.0 

0.42 

0.55 
0.18 
2.70 
8.62 



0.88 
0.06 
2.98 

9.0 



9.82 50 



5.39 

48.1 

22.53 

21.28 
7.12 
106.9 
342.01 

9.5 
148.2 

80.0 
1280.0 

6.97 
7.6 
19.98 

110.0 



27.8 
248 

100 

100 

34 

504 

1613 

88 
692 

90 
1440 

30.6 
40 
119.6 

588 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



59 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



C— (Continued) 
Cranberries (10% Car.) 

A. P 

Cranberry Jelly 

Cream. Thin (18%). 

*' Single z . . . . 
•I It <« 

* • • • 4 

" Thick (40%), 

" Double XX ... , 

•• Thick (40%). 

" Double XX ... . 

Cucumbers (5 % Car.) 

Fresh. E. P. . . 

Currants (16% Car.) 

Fresh 

Dried 

D 

Dandelion Greens (5 % Car.) 
•* Cooked . . . . 

Dates, with Stones . . . . 

Dry Milk 

(I <( 

Dry Peptonoids, Soluble . . 

E 

Egg, Average. Whole (with 

■heU) 

" Average, Whole (with- 
out shell) 

Egg White, Average . . . 

Egg Yolk, Average .... 



2tb0p 
lib. 

2tbsp. 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

• • • • • 



1 cup 
1 cup 



o 
S 



0X8. 
1 

16 
1.5 



8 



8 



2 hp. tbsp. 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup (16 
tbsp.) 

1 tbsp. 



5 

8 



3.5 

7 

u 



2 

1.76 

1.2 

0.6 



Qma. 

28.35 
453.6 

42.5 



14.17 
227 

14.17 

227 



28.35 



142 
227 



Gnu. 

.11 
1.81 



100 

200 

9.5 
50 

159 



0.4 
5.6 

0.3 

5.0 



0.2 



2.1 
5.4 



56.7 

50 
33 

17 



2.1 

3.8 

2.9 
15.5 

6.0 



6.74 

6.7 

4.05 

2.66 






0ms. 

.17 
2.72 

0.11 



2,8 
41.9 

6.0 

90.7 



.06 



B • • • 



3.8 



0.3 

5.0 

1.2 
6.3 



5.26 

5.25 

0.066 

5.66 






Gma. 

2.81 
44.91 

24.75 

0.7 
10.2 

0.5 

6.8 

0.8 



18.0 
84.0 



3.2 

140.0 

4.1 
21.6 

8.0 



> 



Calo- 
ries 

13.2 
211 

100 



29 
440 

57 

864 



81 
728 



2a 

62a 

40 
211 

57 



74 

74 
17 
60 



60 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 




Food Matsrial 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



Farina, Uncooked . 
" Uncooked . 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



Figs, Large 1 fig 

Ub. 



Filberts (10% Car.) 
" Shelled, Chopped 



E.P. 



Fish, Roe (Shad), A. P. 
" Roe (Shad), A. P. 



Flounder, Fresh 



Flour, Barley . . 

Barley . . 

Gluten . . 

Gluten . . 

Graham . . 

Graham . . 

Rice . . . 

Rice . . . 

Rye . . . 

Rye . . . 

Soy Bean 

Soy Bean 

Roller Process 

Roller Process 

Roller F*rocess 

Wheat Entire 



1 tbsp. 

Idoz. 

lib. 

1 oz. 

:i lb. 

1 av.i 
helping 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
lib. 
lib. 



Fowl, E. P 1 serving 

•• E. P !l lb. 



G 

Gelatine, Granulated 
" Granulated 
Shredded 



I 



1 tbflp. 
1 box 
§ box 



I 



0Z8. 
i 

6 

1 
8 



i 
I 

16 

1 
16 

3i 



8 

i 

5 

5 

i 

5 
4 

41 

16 
16 

31 
16 



I 



Onu. 

10 
170 

28.35 
227 



6 
21 
453.6 

28.35 
453.6 

100 



8 
227 

8 
142 

8 
142 

7 
128 

8 
142 

4 
64 

8 
126 
453.6 
453.6 

100 
453.6 



8.5 
34 
17 



0.9 

3.3 

70.7 

5.93 
94.72 

6.4 



0.7 

19.0 
3.4 

60.0 
1.2 

20.2 
0.6 

10.9 
0.5 
9.6 
0.35 
5.6 
0.9 

15.2 

50.80 

50.80 

19.3 
87.5 



7.8 
31.1 
15.6 



3.9 

13.8 

296.2 

1.08 
17.12 

0.3 



0.1 
2.5 
.1 
2.3 
0.2 
3.2 
0.5 
7.8 

• • ■ • 

1.3 

0.15 

2.4 

• • • • 

3.2 

4.53 

4.53 

16.3 
73.9 



• • • • 



0^ 

2.7 

58.9 

0.74 
11.79 



42 

150 

3185 

36 
581 

30 



6.3 
174.3 

3.4 
63.0 

6.7 
101.2 

5.1 
86.8 

6.3 
111.5 

0.08 

1.28 

6.0 
84.8 
339.75 
339.75 



29 
796 

29 
512 

30 
500 

27 
461 

28 
496 

30 
480 

28 

445 

1603 

1603 

224 
1015 



31 

125 

62 



> Average Portion 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



(Uooookat. unieat 
otherwJBO slated) 



a — (Conliniwd) 
OIuUd Flour 

OlutaD Bnad 

■■ Bread 

Olulan Noodin 

Onpcfniit (G%Cu.) 

Gispa, CoDoord, A. P. . , 
Concord, A. P, . . 

OnpM, Mstuci 

MaiMB 

Onpcnula 

OnsM (G% Car.) 

" Cooksd 

H 

Haddoek, E. P 

B. P 

HaUbiit,E.P. 

E. P. 

Hud. BmakKd, A. P. . . . 

" flmofcfld, A- P. . . , 
Hlokory Nut* <10% Cut.}, 



62 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



B.— {Continued) 
Hominy, Cooked . . 



Honey 



Huckleberries (15% Car.) 



• • 



Jell-O 



Kohl-rabi (10% Car.) 

Fresh . . 
Kumyss .... 



Lactose (Sugar of Milk) 



Lady Fingers 
Lamb Chops 



Lard 



Lemon Juice (10% Car.) 



Lentils, Dried, A. P. 
Dried, A. P. 



1 hp. tbsp. 
1 cup 



Hominy Grits, Cooked . .\\ cup 



1 tbsp. 



1 serving 
1 box 



I cup 

1 qt. 



1 tsp. (av. 

size) 
1 tbsp. 



2 medium 

size 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 



1 lemon (3 
tbsp.) 

2§ tbsp. 
lib. 



I 



Ota. 

\ 

5i 

6.8 



3.5 



t 

3i 



3.45 
34} 






31 



16 



\ 



16 



U 



1.01 
16 



Qnu. 

14.17 
157 

192.8 



28.35 



100 



16 
100 



98 
975 



1 
3 

10 



QfM. 

1^ 
13.0 

2.25 



0.1 



0.6 



1.9 
11.2 



1.90 
2.2 



14.17 1.24 



100 

453.6 

14 
453.6 



42 



28.7 
453.6 



18.7 



84.8 



7.37 
116.57 



I 



Qnts. 

0.1 
1.0 

0.11 



0.6 



• • • • 



0.098 
2.1 



.70 

28.3 

128.3 

14.0 
484.0 



0.29 
4.54 



O 



I 



< 
> 



Gnu. 

11.2 
110.0 



Cah- 
riet 

50 
565 



22.5 100 



23.0 



16.6 



14.4 
86.4 



5.39 
1.6 



93 



74 



66 
395 



3.5 
10.0 
10 



30 
328 



4.2 



16.98 
268.52 



4 
14 

40 

51.2 

320 

1494 

127 
4083 



17 



100 
1581 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



6? 



Food Matebial 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



L — (Continued) 

Lentil Flour 

<« •« 

Lettuce (5% Car.) 

Liquid Peptonoids .... 

Lobster, E. P 

E. P 

M 

Macaroni (20% Car.) 

A. P 

A. P 

Cooked . . . . 

Macaroons 

Mackerel. E. P 

E. P 

Salted . . . . 
Salted . . . . 

Malted Milk 

Milk. Butter 

" Condensed, Sweetened 
" Condensed, Sweetened 
" Condensed. Sweetened 

" Dry 

"Dry 

•• Whole 

•• Whole 

" Whole 

" Skimmed 

«* Skimmed 

" Skimmed 

Molasses 




1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 head 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 
lib. 
1 cup 



1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 
1 tsp. 
litbsp. 
1 can 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup (16 

tbsp.) 
1 tbsp. 
Icup 
1 quart 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



S 



0X8. 



8 



31 
16 



31 
16 
5.2 

0.83 

3* 
16 

31 
16 

I 

8.5 
A 

1 

16 
11 

34 f 

8f 

34} 



I 



11 



Oma. 

9 
144 



227 

15 

100 
453.6 



108 

453.6 

147.4 

23.6 

100 
453.6 
100 
453.6 

14.17 

241 

11 

28.35 
453.6 
9.5 

50 

20 
244 
975 

20 
244 
975 

27 
317 



s 




il 


1 


1 


s ^ 


Onu. 


Onu, 


Oma. 


2.3 


0.9 


5.3 


37.0 


1.4 


85.0 


2.3 


0.5 


5.7 


0.8 


• • • • 


2.1 


18.1 


1.1 


0.5 


82.0 


4.9 


2.2 


14.7 


1.0 


81.1 


60.78 


4.08 


336.12 


3.5 


0.22 


20.75 


1.54 


3.59 


15.39 


18.7 


7.1 


• • • • 


84.8 


32.1 


• • • • 


17.3 


26.4 


• • • • 


78.5 


119.7 


• • • • 


2.3 


1.2 


9.6 


7.23 


1.2 


11.56 


0.9 


1.0 


6.0 


2.3 


2.7 


15.6 


36.3 


43.7 


250.6 


2.9 


1.2 


4.1 


15.5 


6.3 


21.6 


0.6 


0.8 


1.0 


8.0 


9.3 


12.2 


32.2 


39.0 


48.8 


.7 


. • . . 


1.0 


8.3 


0.7 


12.5 


33.1 


2.9 


49.7 


0.6 


• ■ • • 


18.7 


7.6 


• « • • 


219.7 



g 

PE4 



Colo- 
ties 

31 
500- 



3& 

2S 

84 
382 



392 

1624 

lOO 

lOO 

13» 

629 

307 

1392 

61 

87 
37 
96- 
1541 
40' 
211 

14 
16S^^ 
675 
7 

89 
35» 

77 
909 



64 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



M — (Continued) 
Muskmelons, E. P. . . 

Mushrooms (10% Car.) 



Mutton Chops 



N 



Noodles, Gluten 



O 



a 

OQ 
1^ 



} (small) 



11 (1 in. in 
diameter) 
1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 



Oatmeal, Granulated . . . '1 tbsp. 
Granulated . . .1 cup 
Cooked . . . . !l cup 
Gruel I i cup 



It 
<< 



Oats, Rolled 1 tbsp. 

" Rolled 1 cup 

Olive Oil 1 tbsp. 



OUve8(20%fat) 
" Ripe Olives 



. 2 or 3 



Onions (10% Car.) 

•• 1 serving 

E. P 3-4 me- 

I dium 



A. P. 



Orange, E. P. (10^ Car.) 



lib. 



1 medium 



Orange Juice 1 tbsp. 

" 1 cup 



Oysters 2 

1 cup 
(solid) 



I 



Oza. 
8 

3.5 

31 
16 



31 



I 

5i 

7.9 

4 

i 



4 
7.24 

16 



8 

1 
8i 



Oma. 
226.8 

100 

100 
453.6 



100 



14.17 
156 
223.9 
113.4 

5 
71 

14.17 



QVM. 

1.36 

3.5 

16.0 
72.5 



45.0 



1.8 
25.1 
4.25 
1.3 

0.7 
11.8 



14.17 0.1 



113 
205.4 

453.6 



142 

14.17 
227 

28.35 
240 



1.8 
3.30 

7.26 



1.2 



1.7 
14.4 



I 



GVM, 

* • • • 

0.4 

33.1 
150.1 



4.2 



0.9 
11.2 
1.77 
.45 

0.3 
5.2 

15.0 



2.8 



0.3 
0.62 

1.36 



0.3 



0.3 
3.1 



S 






Gnu. 
21.12 

6.8 



Caio- 
riet 

90 



46 

362 
1640 



32.6 



9.9 
106.2 
16.76 
7.3 

2.7 
46.9 



1.2 



11.2 
20.33 

44.80 



16.4 

1.6 
25.6 

1.0 
7.9 



434 



66 

623 
100 
38.4 

16 
282 

136 



31 



66 
100 

220 



78 

6 

104 

14 
118 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



65 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



Parsnips (15% Car.) 
E. P. . . 
A. P. . . 



Peaches (10% Car.) 
A. P. . . 
" Canned 



•• Dried 
Peach Juice 



Pea Flour 
•« •< 



Peanuts, Shelled 



Peanut Butter 



Pears (15% Car.) 
Canned 



It 



Peas (15% Car.) 
" Green . . 
*' Canned . 
Split. Dried 



•< 



Pecans (10% Car.) 

" Shelled . . . 
Pineapple (10% Car.) 
Fresh, E. P. 
" Canned . 
*' Canned . 

Canned . 

Plums (20% Car.) 
E. P. . . . 




• • • 



• • • 



1 medium 
lib. 



1 medium 

2 large 
halves 

and 3 tbsp. 
juice 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 



1 medium 
1 serving 



1 serving 
1 cup 
3 tbsp. 



1 cup 



,1 slice 
1 cup 
1 can 



3 large 



H 
O 

a 



0Z8. 
1 

16 



4 
7.60 



8 



A 



f 



3 
3 



4 

64 

1 



51 

8 

H 
10* 
24 



3.5 



Qma. 

28.35 
453.6 



113 
213.2 



85 

14.17 
227 


144 

142 

16.5 



85.05 
85.05 



113 
184 
28.35 



156 

227 

53 

290 

680 



100 



z 

a 




Cabbo- 

HTDBATS8 


Ofiu. 


Qma. 


Qma. 


0.45 


0.14 


3.83 


7.30 


2.27 


61.24 


0.8 


0.1 


11.3 


1.49 


0.21 


23.03 


1.4 


1.8 


56.2 


• • • • 


• • • • 


1.1 


• • • • 


• • • « 


17.6 


2.3 


1.0 


5.8 


36.9 


16.0 


93.0 


36.5 


54.7 


34.5 


4.85 


7.7 


2.83 


.51 


.42 


12. 


.27 


.27 


15.30 


7.7 


0.5 


19.6 


6.6 


0.4 


18.0 


6.97 


.28 


17.57 


15.0 


110.0 


23.8 


0.9 


0.7 


22.0 


0.2 


0.3 


19.3 


1.2 


2.0 


10.6 


2.6 


4.8 


247.0 


1.0 


• • « • 


20.1 



PE4 



Calo- 
ries 

18 
294 



50 
100 



247 

5 

80 

41 
656 

777 

100 



53.7 
64.5 



114 
100 
100.7 



1145 

98 

81 

444 

1044 

84 



66 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



P — {Continued) 

Popcorn, A. P 

** Popped . . . . 

Pork, Loin Chops, Lean, E. P. 
*• Tenderloin, A. P. . . 

Port Wine (10% Alcohol) 

Potato Chips, Cooked . . . 

♦• Cooked . . . 

Potatoes (20% Car.) 

White, E. P. . . . 
White, E. P. . . . 

Sweet 

Sweet, E. P. . . . 

Prunes (20% Car.) 
«« 

It 

Puffed Rice 

Puffed Wheat 

Pumpkin (10% Car.) 

Fresh 

Q 
Quail 

R 

Radishes (5% Car.) 

A. P 

Raisins 

<< 



icup 
1| cups 



• • • • • 



1 tbsp. 

8-10 large 

pieces 
lib. 



1 medium 

lib. 

1 medium 

lib. 



3 prunes 
1 cup 

1 cup 

1 cup 



1 cup 



1 serving 



12 red but- 
ton 
1 doz. 
1 cup 



S 



Oza. 

0.6 
0.6 

1.4 
3.5 



0.62 



16 



3i 
16 

3i 
16 



1 
5 

0.75 

0.6 

6§ 



3§ 



4.4 
5 



Oma. 

17.01 
17.01 

40 
100 



14.17 



17.5 



453.6 



100 
453.6 
100 
453.6 



28.35 
142 

21.26 

17.01 

184.2 



100 



125 

9 
142 



9i 



Oma. 

2.75 
2.75 

8.05 
18.9 



1.19 



30.85 



2.2 
9.93 
1.8 
8.16 



0.5 
2.5 

1.7 

2.31 

1.84 



21.8 



1.12 

0.2 
3.3 



I 



Gnu, 

1.22 
1.22 

7.53 
13.0 



6.93 



180.50 



0.1 
0.45 
0.7 
3.18 



S 

a 



o 



I 



Onu. 

19.5 
19.5 



8.16 



211.80 



18.4 
83.46 
27.4 
124.29 



CaU- 
riea 

100 
100 

100 
193 



10 



100 



2596 



83 
378 
123 
553 



• • • • 


17.6 


72 


• • • • 


88.1 


363 


0.063 


16.79 


76 


0.41 


12.67 


60 


.184 


9.57 


48 


8.0 


• « • • 


159 


.125 


5.0 


• 
26 


0.3 


6.8 


31 


4.3 


97.1 


440 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



67 



Food Material 
(Unoooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



R — (Continued) 

Raspberries (16% Car.) 
Fresh Black 
Fresh . . 

Rhubarb (6% Car.) 



Rice, (20% Car.) 
•• Raw. . . 
" Raw. . . 
" Raw. . . 
•• BoUed . . 



Rum 



S 



Salmon, E. P., Fresh . 
Fresh . . . 
Canned, E. P. 
Canned, E. P. 



Saltines 



Sardines, Canned . . . 

E. P. . 

Sauerkraut (5% Car.) 



Scallops, A. P. 



Shad, E. P 1 serving 



1 cup 
1 cup 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
lib. 
6 level 
tbsp. 

1 tbsp. 



1 serving 
lib. 

• ••«•••■ 

lean 
(1 lb.) 

1 wafer 
lib. 

1 small 
serving 

1 small box 

(28-sar- 

dines) 



f cup, 
packed 

1 cup 



E. P. 



lib. 



I 



Ozs. 

5 

8 



1 
16 



I 



7 

16 

2 



3i 
16 

1 
16 



i 

16 

1 
3.5 



4.05 



6.4 



3i 
16 



Oma. 

142 
227 



28.35 
453.6 



14.17 
200 
453.6 

56.7 



14.17 



100 
453.0 

28.35 
453.6 



3 

453.6 

28.35 
100 



Gnu. 



2.4 



• • • • 



0.2 
2.72 



1.1 
16.0 
36.02 

1.1 



115 

181.4 

100 
453.6 



22.0 
99.6 

6.18 
98.87 



0.4 
48.08 

6.72 



23 



1.95 

26.84 

18.8 
85.1 



I 



Oma, 



1.4 



0.2 
3.17 



0.6 

1.36 

0.05 



12.8 
57.9 
3.43 

54.88 



0.5 
57.60 

3.43 

19.7 



0.57 

0.18 

9.5 
43.0 



s 



Gnu. 

17.8 
22.6 



1.0 
16.33 



11.2 
158.0 
358.34 

11.2 



2.4 






Calo- 
ries 

94 
90 



6 
105 



50 

702 

1591 

50 



38 



203 
922 
55.6 
889 



15 



310.70 1954 
57.7 
269 



4.37 



6.16 



30 

133 

161 
729 



68 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Matbbial 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



S — (ConiinuecO 
Shad Roe 

Sherry 

Shredded Wheat .... 

Shrimps, E. P 

Soy Bean Flour 

<< << <« 

Spinach (5% Car.) 

Cooked 

Fresh, E. P. . . . 

Squabs 

Squash (10% Car.) 

•• Cooked 

" Fresh, A. P. . . . 

Strawberries (10% Car.) 
«« 

E. P 

Fresh, E. P. . 

Strawberry Juice . . . . 

Suet 

Sugar, Granulated . . . . 
" Granulated . . . . 
" Granulated . . . . 
" Loaf 

•• Loaf 

•• Loaf 

•* Powdered . . . . 
" Powdered . . . . 



1 serving 

1 tbsp. 

1 biscuit 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



2 tbsp. 
lib. 



1 serving 



2 hp. tbsp. 
lib. 



1 serving 
1 cup 
lib. 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
lib. 
1 lump 

(large) 
1 lump 

(small) 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 oup 



S 



On, 
3} 

I 
0.97 
6.3 



3 
16 

3J 



3i 
10 



4 

6 

16 

8 



16 

} 

16 
I 

\ 

6.5 

\ 

6.5 



Oma. 
100 

14.17 

27.4 

181.4 

4 
64 



87 
453.6 

100 



100 
453.6 



113 
170 
453.6 

227 

14.17 
453.6 

14.17 
210 
453.6 

7 

7.1 

184 

14.17 
184 



Qma, 
20.9 



3.51 

45.42 

0.35 
5.6 



1.1 
9.52 

16.3 



1.4 
3.17 



1.0 
1.5 
4.54 



it, 



Onu. 
3.8 



0.49 

1.8 

0.15 
2.4 



0.2 
1.36 

36.2 



0.5 
0.91 



0.7 
1.0 
2.72 



21.3 



11.6 
371.0 



g 






I 

•J 

I 



Cfnu, 
2.0 



20.59 

0.36 

.08 
1.28 



2.6 
14.50 



9.0 
20.41 



7.9 
11.9 
33.57 

11.4 



15.0 
210.0 
453.60 
7.0 

7.1 

184.0 

12.0 

184.0 



Calo- 
fiet 

128 



13 

100 

200 

30 
480 



16 
108 

391 



46 
103 



42 

63 

177 

45 

107 1 
3425 

60 
840 

1814 
28 

28 

736 

48 

736 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



69 



Food Matbbial 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



S — {Continued) 
Sugar of Milk ^ . . . 



Sweetbreads 



Syrup, CJorn 
" Com 



Toast 



Tapioca, Pearled, Raw 

Pearled, Raw 

" Minute, Raw 

Tomato (5% Car.) 

Fresh . . . 

Fresh. A. P. . 

" Canned . . 

Cooked. . . 
*' Canned. . . 






Trout, E. P. 
•• E. P. 



Turnip (10% Car.) 
Cooked . 



i tsp. 
1 tsp. 
1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 
1 pair 
(med. sixe) 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 slice (av. 
sice) 

1 thap, 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 



1 medium 
lib. 
1 tbsp. 
(raw) 
2 1 hp.tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



2 hp. tbsp. 



" Fresh, E. P. . . .1 lb. 
Turkey, Cooked, E. P. . 

A.P 



I 



Ots. 

• • • B 

i 
i 

3i 
16 
8 



1 
16 



2 large 
slices 
lib. 



61 



5 
16 



3.5 

8 

3i 
16 



31 
16 

31 
16 



Oma. 

1 

3 

10 

100 

453.6 

227 



28.35 
448 



28.35 



14.17 

180 

14.17 



142 

453.6 
14.17 

100 
227 

100 
453.6 



100 
453.6 

100 
453.6 



Oma. 



• • • • 

16.8 
76.2 
38.1 



2.6 



0.7 



0.5 

4.08 

0.2 

1.2 
2.7 

17.8 
80.6 



1.3 
5.89 

21.1 
95.7 






Oma. 



12.1 
54.8 
27.4 



0.3 



0.3 
1.81 



0.2 
0.5 

10.3 
46.7 



0.2 
0.91 

22.9 
103.9 






Oma. 

• • • • 

3.5 
10.0 



80. 
1280 



15.0 

12.3 

158.4 

12.2 



3.0 

17.69 

0.6 

4.0 
9.0 



I 



Calo- 
ries 

4 
14 
40 

176 
798 
399 



90 
1440 



8.1 
36.74 



73 



49 

640 

49 



16 
103 

4 

23 
51 

164 
743 



39 
179 

290 
1317 



> For practical purposes, the milk sugar may be measured in a medicine glass. ^ Each 
measured ounce equals 18 grams in weight. If milk sugar is added to water in the 
proportion of 24 grams to 3 c.c. and the water brought to the boiling point the mUk 
sugar is completely dissolved. Such a solution made daily or Just before use will be 
found ocmvoiient in administering the diet. (Coleman) 



70 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Food Material 
(Uncooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 



Veal Loin, Mediiim Fat, 
A. P. 



Vegetables^ . , . 

Asparagus, Fresh . 
Fresh . 



II 



Canned 
Canned 



Beans, Baked . . 
" Dried . . 

Beans, Butter . . 

Lima, Canned 
Lima, Dried 
Lima, Fresh 



ti 
II 
II 



Beans, String . . 

" String.Fresh.E.P. 

Beets, Cooked . . 
•• Fresh . . 

Beet Greens . . 

Cabbage, Shredded 
E. P. . 



Carrots, E. P. . . 

Cooked, E. P 



Cauliflower. E. P. 
Cooked, 



«i 
II 



Celery, E. P. . 
*' Uncooked 



Com, A. P. 
" Canned . 
" Canned . 



E. P. 



1 slice (2 X 
21Xiin.) 



6 stalks 
1 bunch 

i cup 
5 stalks 

1 cup 
J cup 

1 serving 

2 tbsp. 
2 tbsp. 

1 serving 
2\ cups 

2 hp. tbsp. 

4 beets 

2 hp. tbsp. 

5 cups 
lib. 

1 small 

2 hp. tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 

2 hp. tbsp. 

1 serving 

6 pieces 

1 ear 

2 tbsp. 
1 cup 



I 



0X8. 

2i 



4 
44 

( 
4 
7 



(21 



8.22 
3.5 

3 

4.58 
1.01 
2.88 

4 
8.50 

3.5 
7.66 

3.5 

11.20 
16 

2 
3.5 

4 
16 
3.5 

2 
3.5 

4.5 

1 

9 



Onu. 
66.15 



113.4 
1247 
lbs.) 

113.4 

200 

233.4 
100 

85 

129.7 
28.6 
81.5 

113 
241.0 

100 
217.1 

100 

317.5 
453.6 

57 

100 

113 

453.4 

100 

57 
100 

127.5 
28.35 
253 



Gnu. 
10.98 



2.04 
22.4 

1.72 
3.0 

16.11 
22.5 

7.9 
5.19 
5.17 
5.97 

2.4 
5.54 

1.3 
3.47 

2.1 

5.08 
7.25 

0.5 
1.1 

2.0 

8.16 

1.8 

0.6 
1.1 

1.5 
.79 
7.8 



I 



Oma. 
5.95 



.24 
2.4 

.12 
0.20 

5.85 
1.8 

.51 
0.39 
0.43 
0.57 

0.3 
0.72 

0.1 
0.22 

0.3 

0.95 
1.36 



0.4 

0.6 

2.27 

0.5 



0.50 
.34 
3.0 



6S 



Gnu. 



3.72 
41.0 

3.16 
5.6 

45.75 
59.6 

24.7 
18.94 
18.85 
17.93 

5.8 

17.83 

7.7 
21.10 

3.2 

17.78 
25.40 

4.2 
9.3 

5.2 

21.32 

4.7 

1.9 
3.3 

9.82 
5.39 
48.1 



m 

s 



Colo- 
riea 

100 



25.2 
276 

20.0 
36 

300 
350 

134.9 
100 
100 
100 

44 
100 

37 
100 

23 

100 
143 

20 
45 

35 

138 

33 

11 
17 

50 
27.8 
248 



* Vegetables are listed under their various names. Note footnote, page 53. 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



71 



Food Matbbxal 
(Unoooked, unless 
otherwise stated) 


1 
p 




1 


1 


S 


P 

•J 


V — {Continued) 




Ota. 


Onu. 


Cms. 


Oma. 


Gma. 


Calo- 
riea 


Dandelion Greens, 
















Cooked . . . 


2 hp. tbep. 


3.5 


100 


2.1 


0.3 


3.2 


23 


Greens, Cooked . . . 


2 hp. tbsp. 


4 


113 


2.3 


0.3 


3.6 


27 


.Lettuce 


1 head 


8 


227 


2.3 


0.5 


5.7 


36 


Peas, Green .... 


1 serving 


4 


113 


7.7 


0.5 


19.6 


114 


" Canned .... 


1 cup 


6i 


184 


6.6 


0.4 


18.0 


100 


" Split, Dried . . 


3 tbsp. 


1 


28.35 


6.97 


.28 


17.57 


100.7 


Potatoes. White . . . 


1 medium 


3J 


100 


2.2 


0.1 


18.4 


83 


" Sweet . . . 


1 medium 


3i 


100 


1.8 


0.7 


27.4 


123 


W 
















Walnuts. Black (10% Car.) 
















E. P 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


125.19 


255.38 


53.06 


3012 


" Engli8h(16%Car.) 
















E. P 


1 meat 


• • • • 


1 


.1 


0.6 


0.1 


7 


English. E. P. . 


8-16 meats 


0.5 


14.17 


2.61 


9.13 


1.84 


100 


English, E. P. . 


1 cup 


5J 


156 


25.8 


98.8 


25.1 


1093 


English, E. P. . 


1 cup 
chopped 


3 


85.05 


15.66 


54.77 


11.07 


600 


• 


meats 














English, E. P. . 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


83.46 


292.10 


58.79 


3199 


Watermelon, E. P. . . . 




11.7 


331.1 


1.32 


0.66 


22.19 


100 


Wheat, Shredded . . . 




1 


28.35 


3.43 


.51 


21.31 


103.6 


Wheat Flakes . . . . 


1 cup 


1 


28.35 


3.80 


.39 


21.06 


103 


Whey 


1 glass 


6J 


184 


1.8 


0.5 


9.3 


50 


Whiskey (43% Alcohol) . 




• • • • 


50c.c. 


• • • • 


• • • • 


■ ■ • • 


152 


White Fish, E. P. . . . 


1 serving 


3i 


100 


22.9 


6.5 


• ■ ■ • 


150 


" " E. P. ... 


lib. 


16 


453.6 


103.8 


29.4 


• • • ■ 


681 


Z 

Zwieback 


3 small 
slices 


1 


28.35 


2.77 


2.80 


20.83 


199.6 



CHAPTER IV 
FEEDING THE SICK 

GENERAL ETTLES 

In the treatment of disease there are few questions which 
have to be considered so often in the daily routine of practice 
as those which concern the proper support and nourishment of 
the patient. 

A good nurse will never exceed or depart from the phy- 
sician^s instructions ; but there are occasions when her posses- 
sion of accurate, even if limited, knowledge on the subject 
of chemical and physiological action of food will enable a 
physician to give more definite directions, greatly assisting 
him in the performance of his duties, and adding to the com- 
fort and well-being of the patient. 

Physician's Directions. The nurse's directions in refer- 
ence to feeding her patient should be written, stating how 
much food may be given, its form, preparation and time of 
serving. In pneumonia, typhoid and all acute serious con-' 
ditions, a record of all these details should be kept, also a 
record of the quantity of fluid and medicine taken. 

The nurse has a far better opportunity than the physician 
to judge of all the conditions of the patient's digestion, and 
his likes and dislikes for different foods, and she should not 
fail to report them to the physician in charge and under- 
stand very definitely to what extent she is to be permitted to 
humor her patient, and substitute one form of food or drink 
for another. 

It may happen from lack of care or indefinite instruction, 
that the food served will neutralize the effect of the med- 
icine, either by overfeeding, or by irregularities in feeding, 

72 



FEEDING THE SICK 73 

which disturb digestion and interfere with the beneficial ef- 
fect of the medicine. 

Those who are ill are often allowed to drift into critical 
conditions through not being properly supplied with such 
nutritive material as tlieir enfeebled powers can digest 
Many have perished because those around them did not know 
how to feed them, and either withheld food altogether, or 
gave that which was unsuitable, through ignorance. Even 
when the patient is confined to bed and prevented from tak- 
ing any kind of voluntary esercise, he still requires energy for 
the involuntary action of heart, lungs, and the other processes 
of living, and healthy nutrition must be provided for by a 
supply of suitable food. 

Often the nurse may conscientiously serve one form of 
food ordered, offering it in spite of the patient's dislike and 
nausea with the result of half starving him. When her in- 
Btruetiona have not been specific, or have not provided for 
emergencies, she should make it a point to have them clearly 
understood at the next visit of tlie physician. 

To he able to carry out these instructions and offer nourish- 
ment intelligently, a thorough practical knowledge of dietetics 
is necessary, and should be the foundation of every nurse's 
training. If we wish to succeed in avoiding nausea, vomit- 
ing, loss of strength, and even loss of life, we must learn to 
offer food to the patient in & suitable form, in the quantity 
and at the times suited to his digestive power, and so adapt 
his food to his capabilities. 

This subject has been so ably treated by Dr. Thompson 
(Practical Dietetics, 2d ed.) in his chapter, "Administration 
of Food for the Sick," that penniaaion has been asked, and 
kindly granted, to use extracts from that chapter; also, by 
the kindness of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, quotations have been 
made from the article, " Nourishment in Acute Disease," from 
the " Eumford Kitchen Leafiets." 

Feeding in Acute Disease, The preparation of food for 
those who are seriously ill is a matter of vital importance, 
for the life of the patient often depends either upon the 



he I 

dm 



U PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

maintenance of strength during the acute period of the dis* 
€ase or on the recovery of power during convalescence. Since 
acute disease is accompanied by fever, we must consider the 
effect of feeding in cases where the temperature is febrile in 
character; also the amount of food, its quality and quantity, 
together with other conditions affecting its absorption. 

In acute disease accompanied by fever, what are the con- 
ditions? The body loses weight, urea is increased and car- 
bonic acid and water are excreted in larger amounts than in 
health. All of this loss is not dangerous if permitted to go 
on for a few days only, and if the amounts do not exceed 
certain limits. But to replace these losses we are at a dis- 
advantage as regards the ability of the system to assimilate 
food. In fevers the appetite is small, or may be completely 
lost. The saliva, the gastric juice, pancreatic fluid, the bile, 
are less efficient in action or diminished in amount during 
high temperature. 

The stomach is very sensitive, in part, perhaps, through 
«3rmpathy with the increased sensitiveness of the nervous sys- 
tem as a whole. If there is much hyperaesthesia of the diges- 
tive tract, as in typhoid, in peritonitis, in dysentery or gastro- 
•enteritis, one must be careful not to give too much food at 
a time, and it should be in a liquid form and partially pre- 
digested. Note Typhoid Diet, page 337. 

Evidences of Digestion. Our attention should be devoted 
not only to what is put into the alimentary canal, but also to 
what goes out. For instance, if curds of undigested milk 
are found in the stools of a tjrphoid patient, the quantily of 
milk should be diminished, or it should be diluted. 

Every careful observer of the sick will agree that many 
patients are starved, simply from the went of attention to 
the means which alone make it possible for them to take 
food. For example, if the patient has a fever with remis- 
sion and intermission, it is of the first importance to remem- 
ber that the ability to digest food at these intermissions is 
greater, and it is then that the most nourishing portions of 
diet should be given. 



FEEDING THE SICK 75 

It must be borne in mind that, contrary to the prevalent 
notion, the increase of body beat is not entirely responsible 
for the wasting of the fever patient. The emaciation is due 
partly to the inability to receive and digest the food, which 
in turn arises from the irritable state of the stomach and 
bowels and the defective secretion of the digestive fluids. 

It IB the administration of unsuitable food that must be 
guarded against, and also the giving of nourishment in 
quantitieB and at times unsuifed to the digestive powers of 
the patient. All food is changed into liquid in the process 
of digestion before it can be absorbed into the blood. Liquid 
food, therefore, is given to the very sick because it can be 
digested with the smallest amount of labor to the body. 

Predigested milk possesses the decided advantage in that 
it aids the assimilation of the milk without adding to its 
balk, as do lime water and other substances. 

By diluting milk, stimulants and gruels too much, the 
quantity of tbe fluid is so great that the patient soon tires 
of swallowing, and stops before enough nourishment has been 
obtained. One should not give what cannot be digested, nor 
less than can be assimilated. So the attendant must have a 
constant watch over the condition of the patient's powers of 
digestion, and it is necessary for her to know how to choose 
such variety in the diet as to include both what is palatable 
and what will afford a proper amount of nourishment. 

The Appetite. As the appetite of the sick often ref^uires 
tempting, the greatest pains should be taken in the prepara- 
tion of the invalid's food. The lack of desire for food may 
be due merely to defective cooking, to the serving of meals at 
inopportune moments, or to the fact that the food selected 
is not to the patient's liking in. kind, flavor, or appearance. 
A desire for food may exist, but not for the particular food 
offered, and it is the province of the nurse to differentiate. 

Punctuality in serving meals should be carefully observed, 
for an appetite ready at the accustomed hour may fail if the 
meal is delayed. There is much unconscious habit in re- 
gard to eating. Time for cooking food should be carefully 



76 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

considered with regard to the time for serving. Many foods 
properly cooked are spoiled by standing, which if served 
promptly would be delicious. The rule of serving food at 
stated intervals should be observed for the conscious as well 
as the unconscious or semi-unconscious patient. 

Quality and Quantity of Food. All foods supplied should 
be as pure and fresh as possible. Hence for the sick it is 
desirable to select the best quality obtainable. 

The amount should be regulated by the physician* When 
this is not done^ care must be taken, on the one hand to see 
that sufficient is eaten, which often necessitates tempting the 
appetite; and on the other to avoid overindulgence if the 
patient is voracious or has a fancy for certain articles of 
which large amounts are likely to be harmful. 

A well man, lying quietly in bed, requires from 1600 to 
2000 calories per day, and if the body is being wasted by 
disease, he may need a great deal more. During conva^ 
lescence, if the body has lost weight, food must be given 
for rebuilding, in addition to the ordinary daily need. 

Temperature of Food. The temperature of the food served 
is exceedingly important, as it has a marked influence upon 
digestion. As a rule, foods to be served *'hot" should 
neither be served lukewarm nor too hot. Serve in hot dishes 
and cover in transit. Cold food should be served neither 
lukewarm nor ice cold. Under many conditions food at ex- 
treme temperatures interferes with digestion and absorption. 

Details in Feeding. The patient should be saved from 
thinking as well as from physical exertion, and it is unwise 
to ask him what he would like to eat, for it is often the un- 
expected that pleases. Personal idiosyncrasies should be con- 
sidered; for some foods easy of digestion, if repugnant to 
the patient, may prove nauseating and be rejected or disturb 
digestion. 

Only a small quantity of food should be given at one time 
80 that the digestive organs may not be overtaxed. It is 
much better to do this often than to give too much at one 
time. A tablespoonful of nourishment every half hour may 



r 



FEEDING TEE SICK 77. 

be retained and digested, and do the patient good, when if 
a larger amoimt were given the stomach would reject it. 

Tlie majority of weak patients are nnable to take food of 
any solid kind before eleven o'clock in the morning, yet 
before that time eomes they are apt to become exhausted. 
This would not be likely to occur if a spoonful of some liquid 
nourishment or stimulant ordered by the physician were given 
every hour or two, from the early morning up to the time 
for taking the solid food, which the patient would then 
probably be able to do by noon. 

All noise in the preparation of food and smell of cook- 
ing should be kept from the sick room. The nurse should 
never eat her meal or taste the patient's food in his presence, 
and should always have a cheerful manner and a cleanly, 
tidy appearance. These things have much effect upon the 
patient's appetite. 

Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth, When possible, it is 
well to bathe the patient's face and hands before offering a 
meal. The mouth should be rinsed each time after eating 
with pure water, or diluted borax water (two teaspoonfuls 
to a tumbler of water). This "takes away the after-taste of 
the food and he is less apt to tire of it. 

The mouth should be kept thoroughly cleansed, for if the 
lips are allowed to become parched and sour, the patient will 
refuse nourishment which he might otherwise take. When a 
patient cannot rinse his own mouth it must be frequently 
cleansed by the nurse with a swab of fresh cotton, fastened to 
a small flexible stick. A tongue seraper made of a whale- 
bone bent to a loop may be used before serving the food; 
thus the taste nerves will be uncovered and the appetite im- 
proved. 

Time and Position for Feeding. When the patient is first 
allowed to sit up for half an hour, it is well to utilize this 
time for giving the principal meal of the day, which is likely 
to be eaten with more relish, and perhaps better digested in 
consequence. If the patient is only allowed to sit partially 
up in bed, the nurse should see that the position is com- 



78 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

f ortable, and that the food tray does not cramp the arms and 
legs, taking care that no cmmbs get into the bed. 

Sleep and Feeding. The awakening of a patient to take 
nourishment depends upon his need of the nutriment and 
npon his ability to go to sleep again. In serious cases it 
should be given at stated intervals if the patient drops to 
sleep easily after taking it. Some patients, however, are an- 
noyed by being awakened and cannot sleep again. In such 
cases it may be that the sleep will be more beneficial than 
food. 

Feeding the Helpless Patient. The effort of sitting up 
may become fatiguing to the invalid and so destroy his appe- 
tite before the meal is half done, or he may not be able to 
feed himself, or to raise his head. In such cases the diffi- 
culty can be obviated by placing the hand beneath the pillow 
and raising both together gently. 

In feeding fluids at these times always serve in small 
tumbler, not more than two-thirds filled; see that swallows 
are not taken during inspiration, and that each mouthful is 
swallowed before another is offered. In case the head cannot 
be raised, food may be given by means of a glass tube or a 
feeding cup. 

Feeding the Unconscious Patient. The feeding of uncon- 
scious patients demands especial care. They should be given 
only liquid nourishment, and fed with a spoon, or through 
a catheter. If the jaws are set, a medicine dropper may be 
utilized; not over a teaspoonful should be given at once, and 
the nurse must be sure it is swallowed before she gives more. 
In the case of comatose children, or young infants, the nour- 
ishment may be poured into the nostril in place of the mouth. 
Feeding with the stomach tube is sometimes resorted to, when 
nasal feeding is not feasible. 

Forced Feeding. Forced feeding consists in introducing 
various liquid foods, as milk, eggs, meat-juice or extracts 
into the stomach by way of the nose or directly through the 
mouth by means of a stomach tube. This is seldom required 
of the nurse, but is usually done by the physician himself. 



FEEDING TEE SICE 79 

This method ia employed when the unconscious patient expe- 
riences difficulty in swallowing ; in gastric irritability ; when 
a patient ia unable to take sufficient food, owing to loss of 
appetite and disgust for food; and also in case of a refrac- 
tory patient who refuses to eat. 

Nasal Feeding. In nasal feeding a nasal tube is em- 
ployed or in case of infant a catheter. Have either well 
oiled and passed gently through the nose into the (esophagus 
and then into the stomach. Before pouring in the food wait 
a moment to see that the tube has not entered the larynx. 

Use of the Stomach Tube. The jaws must be kept open. 
In children without teeth, the £nger may be employed; in 
grown persons a mouth gag or a roller bandage may be held 
between the teeth. The tube should be moistened, passed 
into the pharynx and thence Tapidly into the stomach. If 
these two procautionB are not observed, contraction of the 
muscles may occur, preventing the tube from entering the 
cesophagus. In passing the tube into the cesophagus, hold 
it well back from the end. Wien the tube is satisfactorily 
introduced, place a funnel in the free end and pour liquid 
nourishment slowly down the aide of the funnel until the 
tube is filled, and the air in tube ia expelled; this care pre- 
vents the air in tube entering the stomach. In removing the 
tube, it should be withdrawn rapidly in order not to excite 
vomiting. In some cases the physician orders the stomach 
washed out before introducing the food. WTicn it ia neces- 
sary to take special precautions to prevent regurgitation of 
the food, the ribs may be tickled to prevent contraction of 
the diaphragm. 

Rectal Feedini}. This form of alimentation is necessary 
-when the stomach cannot retain food. It is based on the fact 
that the rectal mucous membrane, while it possesses no di- 
gestive faculty, is able to absorb certain classes of nutriment 
These include among the carbohydrates, sugars; among pro- 
teins, the native albumin as well as the end products of pro- 
tein digestion. The latter are believed to be much more 
absorbable than the first products (albumoses and peptones' 



more I 

nes). I 



80 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Soluble starch (dextrin) is doubtless absorbable^ but un- 
changed starch and fats can hardly be taken np. It is prob- 
able that finely emulsified fats if thrown well np into the 
colon are absorbable to some extent. Although we cannot 
understand why certain substances nourish the 'psiSasnt, since 
they are theoretically not absorbable, they seem in some man- 
ner to be utilized, even when merely thrown into the rectum. 
As far as possible we should employ substances which we 
know positively to be capable of absorption; but in rectal 
feeding for a long period it is sometimes necessary to use a 
great variety of formulae, making it out of the question to 
confine ourselves to the few articles which are theoretically 
best suited for the purpose. 

The rectum may be intolerant to almost any form of enema; 
even if retained for some time, it may be rejected without 
apparent change. Under the most favorable circumstances, 
at least three-fourths of the quantity injected will come 
away with the regular evacuation of the bowels. The amount 
of energy actually supplied must be far below the theoretical 
demands of the body. In some cases, it is of course possible 
to nourish the patient partly by the mouth and partly by 
rubbing a small amount of fatty matter into the skin. Some 
of the most available substances, such as solutions of sugar, 
are naturally irritating to the rectum. 

It is possible to keep a patient alive for weeks and even 
months by rectal feeding, but in many cases this resource for 
one Hfason or another fails outright to do what is expected of 
it. Hence we cannot be too careful as to technique and 
cljoi(;e of material used. Of natural substances, milk and 
eggs linve bo(;n very freely used. The albumin and sugar in 
tlie milk are probably utilized. In an emulsion of eggs, the 
native albumin is doubtless the constituent which nourishes 
the patient. We cannot be sure of the absorption of the 
fatty matter of the milk and eggs. Both these substances are 
relatively non-irritating. Peptonized milk answers well in 
Pome cases. It is best to carry on the peptonization for a 
long period, until the end products of digestion form, pep- 



FEEDING THE SICK 81 

tones themselves being often irritating. Solutions of glucose' 
and dextrin are useful, alone or combined with other in- 
gredients. For example, eggs may be combined with glucose, 
or plain milk with dextrin. For variety, any of the pre- 
digested foods, whether these come in solution or dried, and. 
even bouillon and beef-tea may be tried. Starch emulsion 
is soothing in the rectum and may be utilized if first mixed 
with diastase. 

The technique is most important. The rectum should 
first be cleaned by a high injection of decinormal saline 
solution, after which no attempt should be made to give a 
nourishing injection for at least an hour. It may be neces- 
sary for the physician to treat the rectum if hemorrhoids or 
great irritability exists. The patient's hips should be raised 
higher than the head to aid in retaining the enema. A tube 
specially designed for the purpose should be used, the enema 
being at body heat and allowed to flow in by gravity from 
a fimnel. The amount injected should never exceed 8 oz. 
and the enema cannot be repeated oftener than every 6 
hours unless the quantity is small. As a rule, the smaller the 
enema the more frequently it may be used. After an injec- 
tion the patient should be kept perfectly quiet. 

Stimulants like black coffee and whisky are often given by 
the rectum, the whisky requiring dilution with two parts 
water. Wine is sometimes used for the purpose. Stimulat- 
ing and nutritive enemata may be combined. 

Injections of normal salt solution, seltzer water, etc., are 
sometimes used to supply the body with fluids and quench 
thirst. 

Useful additions to enemata comprise a little salt or sodium 
bicarbonate or a little starch emulsion; at times a few drops 
of laudanum are of value in aiding retention. 

One should not be discouraged by early failure, as it is 
possible for tolerance to be established. 



82 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PORMTTLAE FOE 2ECTAL RSBZHO 

I. Peptone-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk = 170 CaL 

00 c. c. peptone = loo CaL 

II. Egg-milk, Von Leube 
250 c. 0. milk = 170 CaL 

■* *?«K« =200 CaL 

3 gniH. Halt. 

III. Starch-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk = 170 CaL 

70 gms. starch = 250 CaL 

IV. Sugar-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk = 170 CaL 

60 gms. grape sugar =3 250 CaL 

V. Pancreas, Von Leube 

76 gm. pancreas substance = 300 CaL 

225 gm. beef = 300 CaL 

35 gms. fat = 350 CaL 

(This enema, in semi-solid condition, is introduced into the rectum 
and allowed to digest therein. A piston syringe with a wide nozzle 
is required.) 

"Nutrient Enema: 

Peptonised Milk 5 iv to 5 vi (four 

Whites of two eggs to six ounces) 

Above used Per Rectum every two to four hours. 

yutrient Enema: 

Milk 5 i (one ounce) 

German Seltzer HoO 5 iv (four ounces) 

Used in Icterus, every two hours. 

Nutrient Enemata — ^l^Ialted Milk. 

Dissolve from three to four heaping teaspoonfuls of Horlick's 
malted milk powder in one-half pint of water, to which add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Use at body temperature, or two or three de- 
grees higher. 

The white of one egg may be incorporated if desired. 

Four to six ounces used per rectum every two to four hours. 

Btimulating Enema: 

Black Coffee 5 ^^ ^ ^o""* ounces) 

Whiskey 3 ^^ (^^'^ ounces) 




FEEDING THE SICK 

Bait Solution: 

Sodium chloride 3 i (one dracbm) 

Aquae O i (one pint) 

Use of Alcohol in the Sick Room. The nurse may be re- 
quired to esercise lier own judgment at times in the emer- 
gency use of alcoholics in the Bick room. This necessity is 
most likely to occur wifh those patients having incurable 
maladies where tbe question of harm to the organism or to 
the morals of the individual does not come into consideration. 
Consomptives often show a remarkable tolerance to alcohol, 
and receive a notable stimulating effect from it, and it 
sometimes happens that an eggnog or milk punch will enable 
an advanced consumptive to dre^s and make his toilet in the 
morning when otherwise he would have to lie in bed. This 
IB true to a less extent of some other incurable diseases. 
Severe acute or subacute conditions in which an alcoholic 
stimulant might require to be given in preference to any 
other for its emergency effect in averting unlooked-for cardiac 
failure comprise pyemia, septicemia and diphtheria. In the 
same class belong certain cases of acute poisoning due to 
mistakes or suicidal intent, such as those due to aconite and 
similar heart poisons. The propriety of giving alcoholics 
after simple collapse or syncope when no serious disease is 
present depends upon the nature of the case and whether 
other stimulants are available. 

Alcohol should perhaps never te given even in emergencies 
to subjects with neuroses or insanity or to victims of severe 
disease of the gastrointestinal organs. 

Keeping Ice in the Sick Room. The very best plan is to 
have a small refrigerator or a Japanese ice box, which may 
be had for a few dollars. If these little luxuries are im- 
possible, put the ice in a deep bowl, cover it with a plato, 
and place the bowl between two clean feather pillows. An- 
other simple way of keeping ice is to put it in a dish pan, 
cover with a tin lid, and wrap in flannel cloths and news- 
papers. It will keep a long time, aa feathers, wool and 
paper are poor conductors of heat. 



84 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Disinfecting Utensils, All dishes or utensils used in Hie 
sick room should be disinfected before being sent to the 
kitchen to be washed. A simple method is to scrape them 
clean and dip them in a basin of borax water (a teaspoonfol 
of borax in a shallow bowl of water). In case of infectiont 
diseases all dishes and utensils should be boiled in watei 
containing 3 per cent, of sodium bicarbonate for one-half ai 
hour to one hour. 






CHAPTER V 
THE TKAT 

The -writer's intention is only to suggest to the nurse the 
best and eimplest methods of arranging the tray and a few 
of the important detaila. 

These things seem trivial, but it mnst he remembered that 
the horizon of the sick room is limited, and that the patient 
who has long been confined to bed with a serious illness thinks 
much of liis immediate surroundings. 

He may seem too ill to notice these details, whereaa he is 
only too ill to speak of them, for one feeds with the eyes quite 
as much as with the lips, and by some carelessness of the 
nurse the appetite of a refined, fastidious, or nerroua pa- 
tient may be wholly destroyed. 

While the natural Btimulants to appetite, such as fresh 
air, exercise and enlivening companionship, are necessarily 
wanting, the taking of food ia the chief event of the day, 
and too much care cannot be bestowed upon its preparation 
and service, as, has been said, the appearance and manner of 
offering have much to do with Its acceptance or rejection, 
ATTAACTIVE AS^ANOEMEITF OF A TEAT 

The cover and the arrangement of the tray is of the ut- 
most importance, and the slightest departure from regularity 
and immaculate cleanliness should be avoided. 

The tray should he covered with fine linen damask, with- 
out crease or wrinkle — the best you can afford. Use the 
choicest silver, daintiest china and glassware; arrange neatly 
and conveniently. Place a single rose or flower on the tray; 
a quotation, added as a variety, will often attract tlie atten- 
tion, and it ia well, when possible, to divert the patieafa 
85 



86 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



mind from his ailments while eating. This can easily be 
done in these little ways, and also by the introduction of 
some cheerful and interesting topic of conversation. 




Proper Placing 



1 
2 
3 
4 
5 



Plate. 

Cup and saucer. 

Bread and butter plate. 

Individual creamer and sugar. 

Tumbler. 



7 Knife. 

8 Fork. 

9 Spoon. 

10 Butter spread. 

11 Napkin. 

12 Flowers. 



17 After coffee spoon. 

18 Soup or cereal or berry plate, 

etc. 



6 Individual salt. 

• 

13 Salad knife. 

14 Soup spoon. 

15 Oyster fork. 

16 Salad fork. 

N.B. — The dots between numbers 7 and 2 reading from left to 
right represent numbers 13, 14, 15, and 17. Sharp edge of knife 
turned toward plate; tines of forks, bowl of spoons, all dishes and 
tumblers placed right side up. 

II ow to Serve. (General Eules.) The time of cooking 
food to be served, should be carefully considered in relation 



TEE TRAY 87 

to the time of Berving, for most palatable food may be 
Bpoiled by not serving it at the proper time. 

Avoid serving too many things on tray. Cover tray with a 
clean napkin or tray cover in carrying it to its deetination. 
When the dietary ordered ia very limited In variety, the pa- 
tient is often gratified by having his food served in courses, 
and will eat more than if given everything at once. 

Only a small quantity should he served at one time. If 
possible, taste of all food and drinks before serving, to see 
if properly seasoned and at right temperature to serve. 

Always use separate spoon for tasting. 

Food to be served hot, should be served hot (not luke- 
warm), in heated dishes and covered in transit. 

Cold drinks and fruita are more healthful when served 
cool than ice-cold. 

When fluid foods are to he given, other receptacles should 
be used than those used for medicine, or the association of 
ideas may be strong enough to destroy what little appetite 
the patient has, and to even produce nausea. Do not fill 
cups or glasses full, but within one inch of the top. For 
individual dishes, for a luncheon, or drinks to be passed 
alone, use a small tray or plate, covered with a doily or 
folded napkin. 

The finger-howl should be placed on a small plate, cov- 
ered with a dainty doily; fill one-fourth full of water, and 
put a few rose petals or green leaves in the water and on the 
aide of the plate. 

When possible, cover all foods and drinks left standing in 
the sick room. 

The tray and all traces of a meal should be removed im- 
mediately after eating. Half-emptied cupa or glasses should 
never he left in the room. 

If the patient is restricted to any especial diet, vary aa 
far as possible in the preparation and wrving. 

The diet of the patient should be under the supervision 
of the physician, and his directions followed implicitly, for 
much unnecessary snfferlng, and even death, has been the 
result of giving forbidden food. 



J 



CHAPTER VI 
UETHODS OF COOKING AND CAEE OF FOOD 

Cooking is the preparation of food for eating. 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of cooked food depends 
to a considerable extent upon the manner in which it is 
cooked and served. The time and temperature of cooking 
should be carefully considered, in relation to the constituents 
of the food material. 

.Success in Cooking depends in part upon the quality of 
material used, which should be the best. The measurements 
must be accurate. Care should be exercised in eombiiung 
ingredients and one should know the effect of varioiis modes 
of cooking on the food under consideration. Training and 
experience are necessary for success. 

Objective Points in Cooking: 

1. To improve the flavor of food, or render it xiore pal- 
atable. 

2. To soften it that it may be more readily masticated and 
digested. 

3. To produce chemical changes which increase digestibil- 
ity. 

4. To destroy bacteria and parasites which may be pres- 
ent in raw food. 

Effects of Heat. Protein is coagulated by hot water and 
dry heat; cold water dissolves soluble proteins, especially if a 
little salt is present. 

Starch is converted into dextrin by dry heat at a tempera- 
ture of 320** P.; the starch granules dissolve when subjected 
to boiling water; cold water separates starch grains. 

88 



METHODS OF COOEIIfO AND CARE OF FOOD 89 

Sugars are changed to caramel at a high temperature. 

Fats are readily decomposed by heat, with production of 
free fatty acida. 

Principles Governing ike Choice of a Method of Cooking 
Any Food. These include: (1) A knowledge of the effects 
of heat and moisture on the digestibility of the articles to be 
cooked. (2) The relation of the method to the extraction of 
soluble portions of the food materials. 

Principal Cooking Processes: 

1. Boiling is cooking in boiling water (31S° F.). Gentle 
boiling is as effective as rapid, and prevents waste of fuel if 
gas is used. 

2. Stewing is long, alow cooking in water below the boil- 
ing point — 186° F. 

3. Steaming is cooking in heat derived from the vapor of 
boiling water. In using the Savory Double Boiler the steam 
enters the cooking compartment and comes into contact with 
the food cooked, keeping it at a constant temperature 212° F. 

4. Broiling is cooking over a glowing fire or over or un- 
der a flame. Pan broiling is cooking meat in a very hot 
frying-pan without fat, turning the meat often. 

6. Baking ia cooking in an oven by means of heated air. 
Boasting is cooking before a glowing fire (direct heat), 

6. Frying is cooking in a deep bath of hot fat (tempera- 
ture ranging from 350° to 400° F.). 

Other methods are used which differ but slightly from the 
above. Braizing is a combination of stewing and baking; 
fricasseeing of frying and stewing. 

The Object of Each Cooking Process: 

1. To retain the juice as in boiling, steaming, broiling, bak- 
ing, roasting, frying, 

3. To extract the juices as in soups, 

3. Partly to retain and partly to extract the juices as in 
stews, chowders, braising, and fricaaaeeing. 

Cooking Utensils. A nurae should always have at hand a 
standard measuring cup, divided into thirds and fourths. 
Wooden spoons are preferable to metal ones for mixing and 



90 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

stirrings as metal spoons are too hard and may break 
bits of enamel, and are also acted upon by acids. For beating 
egg-white, a spoon-shaped wire beater should be used; for 
the yolks, a fork or Dover egg beater is preferable. Use 
round bottom utensils when stirring is necessary during the 
cooking. Use earthen bowl and wooden spoons for mixing 
batters, etc. A double boiler should be used when cooking 
any food that burns easily (as milk) ; also when foods are to 
be cooked at low temperatures. 

Blending Ingredients, There are several ways of accom- 
plishing this purpose. 

1. Stirring. This is simple mechanical mixing in which 
a mass of ingredients is made uniform. 

2. Beating or whipping consists in so manipulating a soft 
mixture as to incorporate the air. A spoon or special device 
is so applied that the bottom of the mixture is steadily lifted 
to the top. 

3. Folding-in is a term applied to the method of intro- 
ducing beaten white of egg slowly and gently into a soft 
mass, so as to render it light, the air being retained. 

4. Cutting is used only in making pastry. Two knives are 
worked in opposite directions until the shortening is well 
incorporated in the flour. 

Suggestions as to Methods of Working. If a fire and oven 
are to be used these must be first of all attended to that they 
be in readiness when needed. All the cooking apparatus 
should be laid out and the materials to be cooked measured 
in preparations for mixing. It is advisable to be economical 
in the use of utensils. Thus one measuring cup may some- 
times be used in succession for dry materials, liquids and 
fats, in the order named. A receptacle should be at hand 
for soiled spoons and other utensils employed in measuring 
or mixing. It is desirable to work as much as possible in a 
small space; thus the measuring and mixing should be done 
on a single table if possible. All soiled dishes should be put 
to soak ; at odd moments they may be washed, dried and put 
away. The purpose underlying these principles is that the 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CAEE OF FOOD 91 

nurBe may go into the family kitclien and prepare food for 
the patient without in the least interfering with the regular 
kitchen work of the household. 

Ice Box and Contents. The ice boK should be maintained 
in a state of absolute cleanliness. This is not ditficult in 
the case of a simple portable refrigerator without a drain 
pipe, which may be flushed out daily with boiling water con- 
taining borax or ammonia (half ounce to the gallon). How- 
ever, in the larger kinds of portable refrigerators, and in the 
set ice boxes where a tube is necessary for drainage, all the 
compartments and shelves should be washed with soap and 
hot water at least once in a week, while every day loose par- 
ticles of food which have escaped from dishes, etc., should 
be carefully removed ; or if advisable in certain cases, the food 
and shelves may be removed and wiped or brushed off. The 
drainage pipes must be cleaned with a brush made for tiie 
purpose at least once a week. It is advisable to sprinkle 
borax on the shelves after cleaning. Certain pungent articles 
can not be kept in an ice box without flavoring other foods 
BQch as butter, milk, etc. 

Institutions, if large enough, nnay use a refrigerating plant, 
which does away in part with the handling of ice; or by the 
aid of an ice machine, superintendents may assure them- 
selves of the purity of all ice designed for internal use. 

The drain pipe of an ice box should not, for obvious rea- 
sons, communicate with the sewerage system. 

The temperature in the food compartments is sometimeB 
mnch warmer than one would imagine; and it is desirable 
to get aome idea of wiiat the temperature fluctuations are by 
using a thermometer. The reading can hardly go lower than 
40° F. and should not be over G0° F. 

The ice cake should be wrapped in cloth or paper, not only 
for economy's sake but because it may be dirty inside or out- 
aide. No food should be placed in the box while warm, for 
the sudden cooling may set up undesirable changes. Canned 
food should not be placed on ice in the opened can, but in a 
freeh receptacle. When possible, each article should be 



\)2 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

placed in a separate container, or wrapped in paper. }b» 
lure in the ice box, while unavoidable, should be kept don 

by wiping walls and shelves dry at intervals. 

CAKE OF FOODi 

Tho caro of food between the time of purchase and cooldn( 
and that of cooking and serving is highly important Tb 
fa(!i that spoiled food represents an economic loss, importut 
fiH it iH, is niiieh less significant than the fact that not odj 
spoiled food, but good food which is contaminated with gem 
life, iH a jxmHible source of disease. 

KxpoHcd r<)()<l, i. e., food exposed to dust, insects, etc^be- 
eorneH (M)nituninated with disease germs without necessaiilj 
hecoMiing Hj)()iled or in any way offensive to the senses. TIm 
nioHi (M'iHp Hnlad or luscious fruit may be covered with dut 
gf-rouH Ml icroiirganisms. 

\\y far the most frequent and abundant forms of mioO' 
or^nniHiriH, wliicli grow at such rate as quickly to become tu 
ibl(! If) i\u} luiked eye, are molds. These are not on the whok 
hHrniful io man, and their chief significance is that they ff^ 
U) foods a l^ad flavor and cause a certain amount of decompo 
Hiiion. I'Ikjhc organisms attack food which is stored in dwk 
dnrnp plm;<?H, chiefly cellars, and although themselves gen 
<jrally hannlcHH, they are likely to be associated with poisooou 
bacteria. Certain butchers hang steaks until they becomi 
covered with mold, but the mold does not make the meat ten 
der and highly flavored, for these changes are due largd; 
to th(j bact(;ria of putrefaction which are also present, thrii 
ing uiu]<;r the same conditions as does the mold. 

In case of suhstances which have a natural protective aw 
ering, it is highly important that this should not be broke 
in handling, ^i'hus when fruits and vegetables are bruisec 
the pulp is quickly attacked by microorganisms and loci 
changes occur, resulting in economic waste, since such article 
can only be partly utilized. 

*For further information, note ** Care of Food in the Home." Farmer 
Bulletin, No. 375 U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. O. 



\ METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 93 

^ Foods should therefore be stored in places which admit 
fi plenty of sunlight and air, which will antagonize the grovrth 
of molds and putrefactive bacteria. Ice, by producing tem- 
peratures unfavorable for the growth of microorganisms, is 
a valuable aid in this sort of cleanliness. Some use of soap 
' and water is necessary, but the benefits are partly lost if the 
T shelves, etc., are loft damp. In cellars repeated whitewashing 
is the most available resource for cleanliness. 

Food should be bought in the freshest and cleanest state, 
should be placed in clean containers, and handled with clean 
hands. Foods should always be washed if there is any suspi- 
cion of contamination. The cases of violent cholera morbus 
which often follow tiie use of unripe apples, and even of ripe 
fruit like cherries, are believed to be due not to the irritating 
acids present in fruit, but to the presence of a well-known 
baclerium mingled with the dust which collects on such fruit. 
To be absolutely on the safe side, all fruits and vegetables 
should be eaten cooked, but this would deprive us of salads 
and fresh fruits and berries which form so large and pleas- 
urable a part of the average dietary. It has been found by 
experience that if celery, greens, asparagus, berries, etc., are 
washed repeatedly in cool or tepid water, they can at last 
become quite clean without losing their delicate flavor and 
consistency. As long as a particle of grit is present there is 
of course possibility of contamination by living organisms. 
They should be washed, therefore, until the wash water is 
clear, This is a rule which applies to all food that is to 
be eaten raw. With cooking such caution is not absolutely 
neceBsary. Potatoes, etc., are washed before boiling for 
esthetic reasons only. 

The worst cases of food poisoning, known as ptomaine 
poisoning, are mysterious in character, and are not entirely 
preventable. Chemical substances not usually formed in sim- 
ple decomposition are responsible. They may be present alike 
in raw, cooked, or frozen foods, and in fresh and preserved 
foods. In some cases there is abundant evidence of extreme 
decomposition. The use of rotten eggs in cookery by bakers 



94 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

has caused severe ptomaine poisoning. Cold storage meats 
are sometimes responsible. Fish poisoning, especially with 
shell fish^ may be due to some unknown disease of the ani- 
mals themselves (although fish very readily undergo decom- 
position), and personal susceptibility is often a factor. The 
numerous cases of ice cream poisoning are usually due to 
mistakes of amateurs who do not understand the proper re- 
quirements of the art. Although we do not understand and 
cannot always foresee ptomaine poisoning, it is the more 
important that no step be neglected which will contribute in 
theory to securing clean food. Most cases occur in prolonged 
warm weather in which decomposition is favored. Sound, 
fresh food, thoroughly cooked and eaten at once could hardly 
cause ptomaine poisoning under any conditions. 

The articles which the ordinary careful nurse must think 
of in this connection are preserved foods of all kinds, shell 
fish, and milk products, the latter being of most significance, 
because milk, fresh cream, ice cream, etc., are often given 
freely to invalids. The care of milk, drinking water and 
other kinds of food is considered elsewhere. 

Special care of food in respect to fiy pollution has become 
necessary since we have learned of the part played by thia 
insect in causing typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, etc. Both 
the feet and the excrement of files are sources of contamina- 
tion. Dealers in food-stuffs in the main take but little pains 
against protecting their wares from fly contamination. Cook- 
ing and careful washing of food to be eaten raw, are our 
principal safeguards in respect to food as it reaches the house. 
There is tlie added danger that food when ready for con- 
sumption will be freshly contaminated. To obviate this, 
doors and windows of kitchens and dining rooms must be 
properly screened, and flypaper and similar precautions em- 
ployed. If typhoid is epidemic in a neighborhood, it is well 
to avoid raw food entirely, just as we avoid unsterilized water 
and milk. Flies are much more likely to abound in neighbor- 
hoods wliere manure, garbage, etc., are allowed to accumulate, 
and are more dangerous than ordinary dust. 



METHODS OF COOKING AKD CARE OF FOOD 95 

Dealers usually are at Bome pains to keep their enpplies free 
from dust, though their methods are not always sanitary, 
e. g., the use of the feather duster for fruit. Dust from the 
streets of cities ahounds in germ life. Vegetables and cer- 
tain fruits in clusters which cannot be wiped (grapes, cur- 
rants, etc.) are most likely to be dusty. Washing succes- 
sively in a number of waters will usually remove the dust: 
but in the tropics where many diseases are dust-borne it ia not 
considered safe to eat raw grapes at all. Whether washing 
is sufficient depends on the character of the dust and the 
degree of exposure to it. 

Preserving Foods. Foods to be preserved should be per- 
fectly fresh, Yeo gives four methods of preservation : 

(1) Drying is the method most available for preserving 
peas, beans, prunes, apricots and other fruits. Milk and eggs 
may both be preserved by desiccation. 

(2) Exclusion of air may be applied in several ways. 
Smoking, which coagulates the outer surface and sterilizes 
it, serves for preserving ham, bacon, fish, etc. Packing in 
sawdust, etc., or dipping in wax preserves eggs. Canning in 
tins or jars under steam heat is used for preserving many 
kinds of food, all air thus being forced out be'ore the can or 
Jar is hermetically sealed. 

(3) Freezing and cold storage are used extensively for 
preserving fish, meat, jams, etc. Such foods must be cooked 
immediately upon thawing. 

(4) Antiseptics are used very extensively in food presierva- 
tion. The oldest and most widely known of these are salt, 
vinegar, alcohol and syrups, Jlore recently a great variety 
of antiseptic chemicals have been used — benzoate of soda, 
salicylic acid, etc., etc. The advisability of their ub3, even 
in minute quantities, is questionable. 

Concentration. Most foods can be reduced to a dry or 
otherwise condensed state without loss of nutritive value or 
danger of decomposition; and on account of the resulting 
economy in price and storage room may enter into the dietaries 
of hospitals and institutions. Sugar, oil and starch, ana 



96 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

many cereal products, are already in a state of concentration. 
Powdered mUk and meat, egg powder, etc., are coming moie 
and more into use. Condensed milk has long been a useM 
product (see milk and milk preparations), as have dried and 
evaporated fruits and vegetables. All these products can be 
used in cookery. Their chief use as mainstays will doubtlesB 
be in cases of temporary shortage of fresh foods, due to 
devastating storms, ^* strikes'* and other happenings which 
interrupt traffic. 

Predigestion of Food. Much is written against the use of 
predigested foods as a steady diet for the well. Many starchy 
foods on the market are partially digested by heat. The 
objection seems to rest on the theory that such foods give the 
digestive fluids and muscles of the digestive organs nothing 
to do, and that a sort of sluggishness is set up. It cannot 
be said truthfully tliat these claims have ever been backed 
up by facts. No one denies that thorough mastication is a 
great advantage, and with thorough mastication much of the 
starch is predigested in the mouth, or, after swallowing, in 
the fundus of the stomach. Predigested proteins are not used 
as staple foods, and as little is gained by very finely masti- 
cating flesh foods, the stomach has plenty of work in digest- 
ing animal proteins. If there is fat in the diet the pancreas 
can never fall into a state of disuse. Hence the outcry 
against partially predigested breakfast foods does not seem 
justified on this score. It is true, however, that their absence 
of flavor, and the soft and pulpy character of some of them 
are recognized as possible drawbacks; for semi-solid and 
pultaceous foods are difficult to masticate, while their in- 
sipidity does not flavor a flow of digestive fluids. If ad- 
herence to these foods causes sluggish digestion and inability 
to deal with food in more natural condition, one would impute 
this not to predigestion, but to the fact that the tastelessness 
and the ease with which they may be bolted, are the real 
factors which bring about a passive state of the digestive 
functions. 



METHODS OF COOKING AJS'D CARE OF FOOD 97 

In a diet for the ill, the dyspeptic, the coDvaleaeent, etc., 
there can be no poeaible objection to predigeetion ; on the con- 
trary, it is highly desirable up to a certain extent But just 
aa soon as possible the patient should return to foods in the 
natural state, bearing in mind that a small minority of 
patients, even the acutely ill, thrive on food which in theory 
would be hazardous to say the least. Apparently hopeless 
cases of sepsis have seemingly been rescued by placing pa- 
tients on food suited only for the healthy. Such patients 
must, however, have a natural appetite and be able to tolerate 
the food. 

Adulteration of Food. " Since the passage of the National 
Pure Food and Drugs Act, giving to the United States Gov- 
ernment authority to enforce stringent laws against the adul- 
teration and misbranding of foods which enter into inter- 
state commerce, and the more rigid enforcement of similar 
state laws which regfllate these matters in many of the states, 
a great burden has heen lifted from the shoulders of the buyer. 
This legislation has enormously decreased the deceptions 
formerly practiced by some manufacturers, and since it in- 
sures that the name and description on bottle and package 
shall not misrepresent the contents, the buyer, if he knows 
■what he wants, will have no difficulty in obtaining it, while 
the honest manufacturers and dealers {and they have with- 
out doubt always outnumbered the others) will also be pro- 
tected. This matter in its various aspects is taken up in 
publications of the Bureau of Chemistry ' of this Depart- 
ment"' For Table of Common Adulteration of Food- 
stuffs, note Farmer's Bulletin No. 25, of the United States 
Department of Agriculture, Division of Chemistry, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

'C B. Dept. AgrimlloM Buroiio of ChemUtrj', Bullatin 100; Yemr Hook 
IBOT, p. 821. 

> U, a. Uept. AEcicuiMue. BiOSka ot Chemiitir, Bullalin B25, p. IB, 



k 



CHAPTER VII 
IfEASTTEES AND WEIGHTS 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success in 
cooking. 

All dry ingredients, such as flour, meal, confectioners' or 
powdered sugar, should be sifted before measuring. 

Mustard, cream of tartar, soda, and salt should be stirred 
before measuring, to lighten and free from lumps. 



r 




A standard Measuring Cnp 

'A standard measuring cup contains one-half pint and is 
divided into fourths and thirds.* 

To measure a cupful of dry material, put in the ingredients 
by spoonfuls, round slightly and level with back of case- 
knife, being careful not to shake cup. 

A cupful is measured level with the brim. 

A heaping cupful is measured level, with two table spoon- 
fuls extra added. 

A scant cupful is measured level, with two table spoonfuls 
taken out. 

All ingredients measured by the tablespoon or teaspoon are 
measured level. 

To measure a spoonful, fill the spoon and level it off with 

the back of case-knife. 

08 




To measure a half -spoonful, first measure a spoonful and 
then cut it in halves, lengthwise. 

To measure a quarter-Bpoonfml, measure a half-spoonful 
and divide it into half, erosswist!, allowing a little more for 
tip of spoon. 

A saltspoon ia one-fourth of a level teaspoon. 

A speck is a little less than one-eighth of a teaspoon. 

To measure butter, lard, and other solid fats, pack solidly 
into spoon or cup and level with knife. 

When recipe calls for one tablespoon {or so) of butter 
melted, measure before melting. When recipe calls for one 
tablespoon (or bo) of melted iutter, measure after melting. 

TABLE OF HEAS1TKES AND WEIGHTS 
(LeVL'l McaBureioents. ) 

1 ealtapoon 
1 teaspoon, tap. 
1 tablespoon, tbsp. 
i tup or I gill. 



J teaspoon 

4 aaltspoons 

3 teaapoong 

4 tablespoons 

10 tableapoona (dry ingredients) 



S tablespoons (liquid) . 






100 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



2 gills 

2 cups 

2 pints 

4 quarts 

2 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

4 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 

2 tablespoons liquid 

2 tablespoons powdered lime 

1 cup of stale bread crumbs 

1 square Baker's unsweetened chocolate .... 
Juice of one lemon ==( about) 3 tablespoons... 

5 table spoons liquid 

4 cups of sifted flour 

2 cups of butter (packed solid) 

2 cups of flnely chopped meat (packed solidly) 
2 cups of granulated sugar 

2| cups of powdered sugar 

2§ cups brown sugar 

2§ cups oatmeal 

41 cups rolled oats 

9 to 10 eggs 

1 cup of rice 

APOTHECAEIES WEIGHTS 



cap. 

pint. 

quart. 

gaUon. 

ounce. 

ounce. 

ounce. 

ounce. 

ounce. 

ounce. 

ounoea. 

ounce. 

wineglassfoL 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 

pound. 



20 grains = 1 scruple, 3 

3 scruples =1 drachm, 5 

8 drachms (or 480 grains) =1 ounce, J 

12 ounces = 1 pound, Ibw 



APOTHECARIES XSASIJEES 

60 minims (M) = 1 fluid drachm, f 5 

8 fluid drachms =1 fluid ounce, f j 

16 fluid ounces = 1 pint, or pt. 

2 pints = 1 quart, qt. 

4 quarts = 1 gallon, gal. 

APPBOZIMATE MEASURES 

One teaspoonful equals about 1 fluid drachm. 

One dessertspoonful equals about 2 fluid drachms. 

One tablespoonful equals about 4 fluid drachma. 

One wineglassful equals about 2 ounces. 

One cup (one-half pint) equals about 8 ounces. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTl^ 101 

METEIC S*/ 8T£tf 

For the origin and nnderiying principles of the metric 
system consult any modern arithmetic (Milne's Standard, for 
example) . The nurse should know the metric tables and the 
equivalents between the metric and common systems for meas- 
ures of volume and weight. She does not require linear and 
square measure^ nor measures of capacity except in a few 
instances. 

The subjoined tables and equivalents will sufiBce. 

TABLES 
Measures of Volnme 

In measuring small quantities the cubic centimeter is the 
unit. 

1 cubic centimeter = 1.0 cc. 

10 cubic centimeters = 10.00 cc 

1 cubic millimeter ^ 0.1 cc 

1-100 cubic millimeter 1 __. ^ q^, 

1-1000 cubic centimeter J 

3tc., etc. 

XEASXTBES OF WEIGHT 

In measures of weight the gram is the unit. 

1 gram 1.0 gm. 

1 decigram 0.1 gm. 

1 centigram 0.01 gm. 

1 milligram 0.001 gm. 

TABLE OF EaTTIYALEKTS 

Appended is a table of all the denominations of weights 
and measures, opposite which are placed the metric system, 
with corresponding equivalents in wine measure and avoirdu- 
pois weights : 



102 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



LIQUIDS 



1 minim 

1 fl. drachm 

1 fl. oz 

4 fl. ozs. or I pint 

8 fl. ozs. or i pint .... 

16 fl. ozs. or 1 pint 

2 pints 

4 pints or i gallon . . . 
1 gallon 

1 Cubic centimeter. 

4 Cc 

15 Cc 

25 Cc 

30 Cc 

60 Cc 

100 Cc 

120 Cc 

125 Cc 

235 Cc 

250 Cc 

300 Cc 

470 Cc 

500 Cc 

950 Cc 

1000 Cc. (1 Liter) 

4 Liters 




0.06 Cubic centi- 
metre 
4 Cc 
30 Cc 

118 Cc (i Liter) 
236 Cc (i Liter) 
473 Cc (i Liter) 

1 Liter (1000 Cc) 

2 Liters. 
4 Liters. 



16 minims. 
1 fluid drachm, 
i fl. oz. (4 fl. drs.) 
61 fl. drs. 

1 fl. oz. 

2 fl. ozs. 
3) fl. ozs. 

4 fl. ozs. (I pint) 
4i fl. ozs. 
8 fl. ozs. (i pint) 
8i fl. ozs. 
10 fl. ozs. 
1 pint. 

1 pint 1 fl. oz. 

2 pints. 

2 1-10 pints. 
1 gallon. 



EQUIVALKNT 



0.061 Cc. 



3.696 

29.574 

118.205 

236.590 

473.197 

.946 

1.892 

3.785 



Cc. 

Cc 

Cc 

Cc 

Cc 

Liter. 

Liters. 

Liters. 



16.23 mins. 

1.082 fl. drs. 

4.057 fl. drs. 

6.762 fl. drs. 

1.014 fl. ozs. 

2.029 fl. 

3.381 fl. 

4.057 fl. 

4.227 fl. 

7.945 fl. 

8.453 fl. 

10.144 fl. 

15.892 fl. 

1.056 pints. 

2.007 pints. 

2.113 pints. 

1.056 gals. 



ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 



SOLIDS 



1-500 grain 
1-150 gr... 
1-120 gr... 
MOO gr... 
1-64 gr... 



APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVAIJRNT 


0.00013 Gm. 
0.00043 Gm. 
0.00054 Gm. 
0.00065 Gm. 
0.001 Gm. 

(1 milligramme.) 


0.000129 Gm. 
0.000432 Gm. 
0.000540 Gm. 
0.000648 Gm. 
0.001013 Gm. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



103 



SOLIDS 



approximate: 
equivalent 



EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



1-50 gr 

1-40 gr 

i-32 gr 

1-25 gr 

1-10 gr 

1-3 gr 

1 gr 

6 grs 

15 grs 

30 grs 

60 grs 

i oz 

i oz 

1 oz. 

2 ozs 

i lb 

i lb 

1 lb 

2 lbs 

1 milligramme 

(0.001 Gm.) 

10 milligrammes 

(0.01 Gm.) 

( = 1 centigramme. ) 
100 milligrammes 

(0.1 Gm.) 

(= 1 decigramme. ) 

1 Gramme 

4 Gm 

10 Gm. (1 deka- 

gramme) 

25 Gm 

28 Gm 

66 Gm 

100 Gm. ' ( 1 hekto- 

gramme) 

113 Gm 

200 Gm 



0.0013 Gm, 
0.0016 Gm. 
0.002 Gm. 
0.0026 Gm. 
0.0065 Gm. 
0.021 Gm. 
0.065 Gm. 
0.3 Gm. 
( 3 decigrammes. ) 

1 Gm. 

2 Gm. 
4 Gm. 
3.5 Gm. 

14.2 Gm. 

28 Gm. 

56 Gm. 
113 Gm. 
225 Gm. 
450 Gm. 
900 Gm. 



1-65 grain. 
1-6 gr. 

li grs. 

15i grs. 

60 grs. (1 dr. Troy) 

i oz. 
I oz. 

1 oz. (437i grs.) 

2 ozs. 

3) ozs. 



4 ozs. 

7 OKS. 



(i lb.) 



0.001296 Gm. 

0.001620 Gm. 

0.002025 Gm. 

0.002592 Gm. 

0.006479 Gm. 

0.021599 Gm. 

0.064798 Gm. 
0.324 Gm. 

0.972 Gm. 

1.944 Gm. 

3.888 Gm. 

3.544 Gm. 

14.175 Gm. 

28.350 Gm. 

56.699 Gm. 

113.398 Gm. 

226.796 Gm. 

453.592 Gm. 

907.185 Gm. 



0.015 grain. 
0.154 gr. 

1.543 grs. 

15.4324 grs. 
61.729 grs. 

154.324 grs. 
385.81 grs. 
432.107 grs. 
1 oz. 426.7 grs. 

3 ozs. 230.7 grs. 



3 ozs. 431.3 grs. 
7 ozs. 24 grs. 



104 



PBACTICAL DIETETICS 



SOLIDS 



AFPBOXnCATB 
EQUIVALENT 



XQUIYALENT 



225 Gm 

260 Gm 

450 Gm 

600 Gm 

900 Gm 

1000 Gm. (1 kilo- 
gramme or Kilo) 



8 ozs. (i lb.) 

8t OZB.* 

1 lb. (7000 gn.) 

1 1-10 lbs. 

2 lbs. 

2i lbs. 



7 ozs. 410 grs. 

8 ozs. 358 grs. 
16 02S. 382 grs. 

1 lb. 1 oz. 279 grs. 

1 lb. 16 ozs. 327 gn. 

2 lbs. 3 ozs. 120 gn. 



TABLE FOR PREPARING PERCENTAGE SOLUTIONS 

Pnblio Charities and the Department of Bellevue and Allied 

Hospitals 1 

One fluid ounce of water^ or 480 minims^ weighs 456.4 
grains. One pint of water, or 7680 minims, weighs 7300, or 
practically 7300 grains. Hence, a 10 per cent, solution, for 
instance^ is one which contains 730 grains of some substance 
in 1 pint. 

The following table will show at a glance the quantity of 
any substance, by weight, required to prepare one pint of a 
solution : 

1. To Prepare One Pint of a Solution 



REQUIRED TO CONTAIN OF A CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



FEB CENT. 



ih P*' <*"* 



€€ 



it 



t€ 



t€ 



€€ 



€€ 



II 



OR 



TAKE OF THB SUBSTAHOI 
BEIX>W STATED AMOUKT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATEB TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



1 in 


10,000 


Grains 0.73 


(li 


1 in 


5,000 


1.46 


(11) 


1 in 


4,000 


1.83 


(U) 


1 in 


3,000 


2.44 


(21) 


1 in 


2,500 


2.92 


(3) 


1 in 


2,000 


3.66 


(31) 


1 in 


1,500 


4.87 


(41) 


1 in 


1,000 


7.30 


(71) 



> Arranged by the Public Charities and the Department of BelleTve ani 
Allied HuspitaU. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



105 



BEQUIBED TO CONTAIN OF A CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



PEB CENT. 



OB 



i' per cent 

\ 

I 

I 

1 

li 

2 " 

2i " 

3 

4 

6 " 

10 *• 

20 " 
26 " 
60 " 



in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 
in 



600 

400 

300 

200 

100 

75 

60 

40 

33i 

25 

20 

10 

6 

4 

2 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATEB TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



Grains 



14.60 
18.25 
24.33 
36.50 
73.00 
97.33 
146.00 
182.50 
219.22 
292.00 
366.00 
730.00 
1460.00 
1825.00 
" 3660.00 



€i 



€€ 



€( 



(€ 



« 



(( 



*( 



(( 



« 



(( 



« 



(14i) 
(18i) 
(24i) 
(36i) 
(73) 
(97) 
(146) 
(180) 
(220) 
(290) 
(366) 
(730) 
(1460) 
(1826) 
(3650) 



2. To Prepare One Fluid Ounce of a Solution 



BEQUIBED TO CONTAIN OF 
A SUBSTANCE 



0.1 per cent. . 
0.5 

1 " .. 

2 « 

3 " .. 

4 " .. 
6 " .. 

6 " .. 

7 " .. 

8 ** .. 

9 ** .. 

10 •• 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 







APPROX. 




0.46 


grain 


il 


gr.) 




2.28 


(( 


(2i 


" ) 




4.56 


« 


(4J 


" ) 




9.13 


(( 


(9 


" ) 


And 


13.69 


« 


(13 J 


/ 


enough 


18.26 


i( 


(18i 


" ) 


water 


22.82 


t* 


(23 


" ) 


to 


27.38 


a 


(27J 


" ) 


make 


31.95 


ti 


(32 


" ) 


1 fluid ounce. 


36.51 


tt 


(36 J 


" ) 




41.08 


(( 


(41 


" ) 




45.64 


t( 


(46 J 


" ) 





106 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

THEBXOICSTBY 

The thermometers used by the nurse in cookery, in r^« 
lating the heat of the room or in taking the patienl^s tempera- 
tures are chiefly of the Fahrenheit scale. Scientists employ 
the Centigrade scale in most countries. While thermometers 
are made with both scales^ it is a simple matter to translate 
the ordinary Falirenheit to Centigrade. 

The freezing point of the lattei is 0®, while that of the 
former is 32° above 0. 

The boiling point of the latter is 100®, while that of the 
former is 212°. 

Hence, to change Fahrenheit to Centigrade, we subtract 
32° from 212° in order that the freezing points correspond, 
which leaves 180° F.= 100** C. A degree Centigrade is 
therefore 6/9 of a degree Fahrenheit. 

To change Centigrade to Fahrenheit, every Fahrenheit de- 
gree is 9/5 times as large as a Centigrade degree. It is also 
necessary to add 32° to the result. 

Examples: Change 212** Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
212*'-— 32''=:q 180'' X 5-9 = 100* C. 
Change 100° Centrigrade to Fahrenheit. 
IOC* X 9-6 = ISO** + 32«» = 212« F. 



QUESTIOHS FOR REVIEW 

Chapter I 

1. What are the functions of food? Name the sources of food. 

2. Classify the foodstuffs according to function. Which foodstuffs 
yield energy in the body? Which may contribute to the forma- 
tion of body fat? 

3. Classify the foodstuffs according to chemical composition. 

4. Define carbohydrates. How do they differ in composition from 
fats? From proteins? 

5. Name five typical carbohydrate foods. 

6. ClaHwify earl ohydrates, giving examples of each class. 

7. What advantages has lactose over cane sugar and glucose in the 
dietarv ? 



r 

1 11. 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 



lOG-a 



What are the principlca to be -followed in cooking starch! 

Name five typical fat foods. 

What can you say of the fuel value of butter Bubatitutee, and 

safety in using themt 

Give three examples of animail proteins; three examples of 

vegetable proteina. 
:. Diacusa the differences in value of different kinds of protein In 

nutrition. Name two complete proteins, 
. What are nitrogenous extraetivea! Of what use in the diet 

are they? 
. What are the funetions of mineral matter i: 
. Give the compoeition of the body. 
. Give the composition of food. 
. Where in the body ia calcium found? Phoaphor 
. Name three foods rich in calcium; three rich in phosphorus; three 






sources of the water-soluble vit amine. 

antiscorbutic vitamine. 
. Define the term food a 
. Of what uac are condin 
. Define dieieticg. 



Chai 



« II 



. What does the term 
!. Name and describe : 
I. Describe digestion ii 
On what substances 
■. What digestive fluid 



include? 
B two pracesaes concerned in digestion, 
the mouth. What enzymea are present? 
they act? What products are formed! 
secreted by the atomachT What enzymes 
contain! What changes in foods do they cause! 
>. What are the functions of the Tiydrouhloric acid of the gastric 

1. What means have we of stimulating the flow of gastric juice! 

Of saliva? 
'. What factors control the opening of the pyloric Hphincter! 
I, What digestive fluids arc present in the small intestine! What 

enzymes does each contain? On what substances do tbey act! 

What products are formed! 
I. Describe the part which bile plays in digestion. 
K Outline the digestion of protein, tat and carbohydrate from the 

time each enters the mouth until it is absorbed. 
.. In what part of the digestive tract doea absorption take place! 



tamine. It'ame three 
e three sources of the 

4 



106-b QUESTIONS FOB REVIEW 

12. Describe the absorption of proteinB, fats, carbohydrates, mineni 
matter and water. 

13. Define the following terms: metabolism, anabolism, kataboliaii 
assimilation, elimination, excretion. 

14. Discuss the metabolism of protein. What becomes of the nitro- 
gen? What ])ecomes of the non-nitrogenous part of the proton 
molecule? What are the end products of protein oxidation? 

15. Describe the fate of fat in metabolism. What products are 
formed when it is oxidized ? 

10. What becomes of carbohydrate after absorption? What are the 

end products of its oxidation? 
17. In what ways does the body rid itself of its waste products? 

Ghapteb III 

1. What are the functions of protein nitrogen? 

2. What are the disadvantages of a high protein diet? ' 

3. What is meant by nitrogen equilibrium? Nitrogen starrations? 

4. How would you tell whether the diet of an individual contained 
rii()U>;h ])rotein? 

5. Define energy. In what forms may it be manifested? 

6. How is the energy in foods measured? What methods are used 
in determining the energy value of food; (a) outside the body; 
(b) within the body? 

7. (iivc the definition of a calorie. 

8. Wliat lire tlic physiological fuel values of protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate? 

9. (-uleulute the energy value of one quart of milk, weighing 975 
grams. (The composition of whole milk is as follows; 3.3% 
protein, 4.0% fat, 5.0% carbohydrate.) Compare your answer 
with the table, see page 53. 

10. What factors influence the total energy requirement of any in- 
dividual? Which of these factors is most significant? 

11. What is the energy requirement of a man weighing 70 kilograms, 
engaged in moderately active muscular work? Light work? 
Hani work? 

12. What is the energy requirement of a woman doing light muscular 
work? AUxlerate work? 

13. What is the energy re<]uirenient of an infant, of a child of three 
years, of an aged person? 

14. Calculate your own energy rciiuirement, using the table giving 
the number of calories required per hour for various degrees of 
activity. 

15. Estimate your protein requirement. 



QUESTIONS FOB REVIEW 106-c 

Cbapteb IV 

1. What ie the duty of the nurae in regard to the physician's direc- 
tions concerning diet! 

2. Why is a knowledge of dieteticB esaential for the nurses T 

3. What conditions present in acute disease accompanied by fever 
require adjustment of the diet? 

4. What are the advantages of a liquid diet in feeding the eick* 
VCitaX muKt he guarded against? 

5. In what ways may the patient'a appetite be safeguarded? 

6. Why is it important to cleanse Ihe patient's mouth before and 
after eating? How should this Im! donel 

T. Would you wake a patient to feed him? 

8. How would you feed a helpless patient? 

9. How would ycm feed an unconscious patient? 

10. When is forced feeding necessary? Wliat methods are used? 

11. Outline the procedure to be followed in the use of the stomach 
tube. What precautions must be taken? 

12. When is rt-ctal feeding used? 

13. How far is it possible to nourish the patient in this way! 

14. Descrihe the method of procedure to be followed in rectal feeding. 

15. List the foods generally used. 

10. How often and in what quantities can nutrient enemas be given? 

17. Give a method for keeping ice in the sick room when a re- 
frigerator is not obtainable. 

18. Describe two ways of disinfecting dishes and utensils used in 
the sick room. 

Chapteb V 

1. What is gained by scrupulous care in the arrangement of the 
tray and the serving of food? 

2. Mention at least five points which you consider important for 
the nurse to remember when serving the patient's meals. 

3. Is there any advantage in serving the meal in courses? 

i. When hut one thing can be given a patient, how would you 
present it most attractively I Illustrate. 

CKAPTEa Vt 

1. What are the abjective points in cocking? Illustrate each point 
with reference to a particular food. 

2. Is there a difTerence between boiling and stewing, pan broiling 
and frying, baking and roasting! , 

3. When is a double boiler useful? 
. Mention four ways of blending ingredients. Qive an illustra- 
tflop of each method. 






106-d QUESTIONS FOB REVIEW 

5. Mention some points to be observed in the preparation of a meal 
for a patient in a private house. 

6. Describe the care of an ice box. 

7. What precautions are necessary in the purchase of food, and in 
its care before use and preparation for the table? Why is all 
this important? 

8. Give four methods for the preservation of food. 

9. Discuss the value of predigested foods. 

Chafteb VII 

1. What difference does it make whether flour, meal, etc., are sifted 
before measuring? 

2. Describe a standard measuring cup. 

3. How would you measure a cupful of dry material? 

4. How would you measure a spoonful of dry material? A half- 
spoonful? A quarter-spoonful? 

5. Give the method for measuring solid fats. 

6. What is the difference between one tablespoon of butter melted 
and one tablespoon of melted butter? Between one cupful of 
flour sifted and one cupful of sifted flour? 

7. The following measures and weights are so frequently needed 
by the nurse that they should be memorized; but it is equally 
important that she familiarize herself with the entire contents 
of the tables, in order that she may know where to turn quickly 
for useful information. 

(a) How many tablespoons are there in one cup? 

(b) How many teaspoons are there in one tablespoon? 

(c) How many cups in one pint? 

(d) How many pints in one quart? 

(e) How many tablespoons of butter in one ounce? 

(f) How many tablespoons of flour in one ounce? 

(g) How many tablespoons of sugar in one ounce? 
(h) How many cups of butter in a pound? 

(i) How many cups of granulated sugar in a pound? 

(j) How many cups of sifted flour in a pound? 

(k) How many grams in one ounce? 

(1) How many ounces in one pound? 

(m) How many grams in one pound? 

(n) How many grams in one kilogram? 

(o) How many pounds in one kilogram? 

8. Change 160 degrees Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
Change 70 degrees Centigrade to Fahrenheit. 



PART n 

BEVEBAQES 

ANIMAL FOODS 

VEGETABLE FOODS 

NUTEITIOUS DESSEBTS 



CHAPTER Vni 



ACm — AIBmQNOTJS — STARCHT — HISCELLAHEOITS BSTXR- 
AQES, mCXUDINQ TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, AND COCOA, 
Am) SPECIAL HON-HTJTRITITE BEVEBAQES 

Beverages serve primarily to relieve thirst. The universal 
beverage is ivater.' Other beverages answer the same pur- 
pose, because their chief constituent is water. They are also 
taken for their temperature — cold or hot; for their flavor, 
which helps to arouse or appease the appetite; or for their 
stimnlating properties. Usually they have little or no energy 
value, but when made with millc, eggs, cocoa, chocolate or 
other highly nutritive materials, they become a valuable 
means of aininistering food in a liquid form. 

All beverages need to be made with much care and served 
daintily. Hot drinks should be served at a temperature of 
123-140° F. When water is used it should be freshly 
drawn, brought to a boil and drank at once. This serves to 
sterilize it and also to develop a better flavor. 

Cold drinks should he given thoroughly cooled, but iced 
liquids lower the temperature of the stomach unless sipped 
very slowly, and thus tend to retard digestion. They are 
therefore better for serving between meals than with them. 
Do not use ice in a beverage unless it is made from pure water, 
but cool by placing the receptacle on ice. Use a separate 
Bpoon, and taste every beverage just before serving to be sure 
it is properly seasoned and of correct temperature. 

Never allow a drink to stand any length of time in a sick 
room. If it has to be carried any distance, be sure that it 
is covered. 



The) 
Ty and fopx 

»>f. iiA'^i ir £55^£ Tilie fx ^oer fxredc and di^ihoRlie 

s: — :i'i^ ^frxaliir arDnr. Tiee aods TKnr with tbe Uad 
ri ±^T : ri^Sw ijjl-s rciia^fMar aoi; lemoBB, eiinc add; 
»p:^ xcrrr-o iu'ziL Si. ^2*He Ka^ as daevliere slated/ 
xvLT ir ri-i f .-mi ri icil sil"3. Tsaauh" of pocBSEhnn, and in 

— ~ -- -^' --^>^ —3^ 7^^2«??^ ;'JH» flBBXaias m fennot 

"■i5> I-=:--z< i=i£ :jriz^^ izj£ rr 'isa^ tfie jidoe lemoie 
±T >:v-l>. ii ^-7 c:^i i :^:r=^ :a5X. Wbm Ae rind of lemoa 
rr rr^LZ^- :> " I^^in."::^ ru^li.'iza-.j, r: aboold iwt be nwd. 

>:rrt i,- :«c--r5j?* iiiTT!.- fz. uaaes ca- dieibet cups 
viir:\-: :-:--:-> ll\c , pLss :iL sznZ ranr or j^te, coTcwd 
▼iri I.-i:^, £zl i.:I i :rv Tni=r ^r^cisrs. or a szn^ flower. 

"■-r. -- :;;;. TT- :,r :< r: >■ ::>.-I .zssaad of renr hot or 
:.. ". v^ ".i::- v v-- j- .^ : - l-ur^ - is pr^feiabfe to use 
">.,:v-r > rv.v ~ : r <-..,:: -..:,; ..: tIl-^- :f s:ii:ar, which re 

, ...T\> - ... >- 

-J^ :!. i::l: . : :-:. : i--> .-.rsiwr^iVIj widi the kind, 
ii::. "5^.:* Tt >-.i.>.:-: ,: ; :.^" :">:!>: ~'-<r >c iwmie in mind 
-ar':!.": vrrViiT :\: : v :.-^:^. Vj: "r^:\ r^f*. .ch^rwise too mndi 

-"■:': r ' : • ■- . >-\ci' T.v.>: :«f '^y.i*:':*! ?t sweetina or 
^i^.■/^.^r■.^ 't ? ". iV; T ".-> >v,-::r :' iz sz^nr but it has 
l; ::•:'.; £;::. N.:: >"-:^r >.::>: :v.::<. Vii^ ^4;?. 

^r-v -■ . <."-,- ?" • V.J'-- i" -. ^: r ..::'. :l:-i 5'zzar is dis- 



ACID BEYESAGES 111 

golyed. Bo3 sIoitIt, without mmng, for fittem mdsmte^; 
oool slightly and bottku 

ISMOHAn; lS7CAXiBIB 

1 lemon. 2 f iifii lyinHi 

% cop boiliii^ walec. 5i^ l&m £tt 

Wash and wipe Iodehi: cot a tstt ^^fx &Ss& ^r^ot v5SSk. 
Squeeze juke into a bowi {sse^s:^ uck 'ie: wgAt^ . usif -^ui; 
sugar a^ \ifsSiiag water; eov^r^ aaxt px: 51L Ss^ 'S^ ^m!. 
Strain and pour into a ^aas <sr scnes sm. 

Cot half the ^ice of Vrmaf ^Hna tv^v i6ea& aoof iK; si 
garnish in ^asi: or a isw jgrntBf ir fiis t£ vaeu^ lut; ns: 
used. 

Note. — The nmnrr.a cf aorar laef »suni iwil iue 
acidity of frart. Fsr fnn: Vrnrmraifg: iifif fSsso. fbnur t^ A 
kinds to strong leHU3Btt&. iBiE^ Miiiie w^ 
cool, and dull aa wt^ 




Boil die 
t 
tabl< 



to taste, AHEKy ami asaL ^ 3«c ^P9K ^aiii«& Mt ^ rv* ^ 




Piepaie Ae lomiiaiU!^ ra -Mttt »*. a» -fa»: ^m^jf^ r;- 
thorou^ilT. aod -flak naue jfen aa e^u g. 

Note- — FB^HftiiLiiaifei>fsia mtrsb^jr -vui^a^ 
soda mar le amccBK n£ ^aoMHicKre 




«-rf 



no BEVERA0E8 



ACID BEVERAGES 

Beverages made from fruit juices are cooling and lefie* 
ing, and hence especially grateful to fever patients. Tbf 
are valuable for the organic acids^ mineral matter^ and wpr 
which they contain. Some of them, as lemonade and onV 
ade, have an added value in their diuretic and diaphflflte 
action. The organic acids are useful in constipation, M ft? 
stimulate peristaltic action. These acids vary with the W- 
of fruit; thus, apples contain malic acid; lemons, citric tAw 
grapes, tartaric acid, etc. These acids, as elsewhere MA 
occur in the form of acid salts, usually of potassium, andi^ 
the body are changed to carbonates, which preserve the tSf^ 
linity of the blood. Eipe pineapple jaice contains a fero^ 
capable of digesting proteins. 

Wash lemons and oranges, and in using the juice rcrnfli^ 
the seeds, as they give a bitter taste. When the rind of lan*^ 
or orange is xmdesirable medicinally, it should not be used* 

Serve acid beverages daintily in glasses or sherbet coP 
(three-fourths filled), pass on small tray or plate, covci* 
with doily, and add a few wafer crackers, or a single flower. 

Whenever cold water is to be used instead of very hot • 
boiling water in preparing the drinks, it is preferable to u 
" sugar syrup " for sweetening in place of sugar, which i 
quires time for solution. 

As tlie acidity of fruit varies considerably with the kin 
and with the season of year, this fact must be borne in mil 
while preparing the foregoing recipes, otherwise too mm 
sugar may be added. 

For the Diabetic. Sugar must be replaced by sweetina 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but it h 
no food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 249. 

SUGAK 8YBTTP, 480 CALORIES 
Vt <^^P ^^ wgar. \ i cup of boiling water. 

Mix the sugar and water and stir until the sugar is d 

\Sm Ifinerml lf»tt«r. p. 17. 



112 BEVERAGES 

Mix pineapple, lemon juice and sngar^ and add the boiling 
water. Cool, add ice-cold water, strain and serve. 

Note. — Canned pineapple may be nsed^ or pineapple 
juice. 

nUSH MOSS lEXOHASE, 25 CALOBIES i 

^ cup Irish moss. 4 tablespoons lemon Jiiioe. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss (soaking 15 minutes). 
Drain and add the cold water; cook in top of donble boiler 
about 20 minutes or until syrupy. If it becomes too thick, 
add hot water. Strain, add the lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Eeheat and serve hot. 

Excellent for sore throat and cold on the lungs, or any 
inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

GRAPE LEHONADE, 200 CALOKIEfl 

Make one cup lemonade, rather sweet, add one-fourth cup 
grape juice. 

EGG LJSHONADE 

See " Albuminous Beverages '^ for recipe. Page 121, 

ORANGEADE, 197 CALORIES 

1 sour orange. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

^ cup boiling water. % slice orange. 

Prepare as for lemonade. If orange is not very acid^ add 
a little lemon juice or use less sugar. 

■ 

ORANGEADE NO. U, 77 CALORIES 

Put two tablespoons of crushed ice in dainty glasses and 
pour the juice of one orange over it. Sweeten if desired. 

PRUITADE, 45 CALORIES 

^ cup grated pineapple 1 cup boiling water. 

Juice l^ lemon. Sugar. 

Juice l^ orange. 

Prepare fruit Add the boiling water and one tablespoon 
sugar; allow to stand until cool. Add more water or. sugar 
if necessary. Strain and serve cold. 

* Without lugar. 



ACID BEVERAGES 113 

PinZAPFLE JUICE, ABOin: so CAXORIES 

Vi cup Pineapple Juice. Crushed lee. 

Pour the pineapple juice over crushed ice and serve in 
dainty glasses. This is delicious and has remedial qualities; 
especially valuable in throat and stomach trouble. 
LEMON WHEY, &9 CALORIES 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tableapoons lemon juice. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water, or in a 
double-boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook without stirring 
until the whey separates. Strain through cheese-cloth, and 
add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small pieces 
of slice of lemon. 

VmE WSEY, 84 CAXOKIES 
1 cup sweet milk. ^ cup sherry wine. 

Heat the milk to boiling point, add the wine, and cook with- 
out stirring until the milk separates. Strain through a fine 
etrainer, and serve hot or cold. 

ACID PHOSPHATE 
Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a solution of the phosphates 
of lime, magnesia, potash and iron with phosphoric acid, 
in such fonn as to be readily assimilated by the system. It 
is thus a true nerve and tissue food. 
I teaspoon Horsford's Acid Fhos- 1 cup hot or cold water, 
phate. Sugar. 

Mix the Acid Phosphate with the water and sweeten with 
Bugar, if desired. 

If the above should seem too stiong, or be found too stimu- 
lating, use one-half teaspoon of the Acid Phosphate. 

Note. — Horsford's Acid Phosphate can he substituted for 
lemon juice in any of the acid drinks. 

ACn) PHOSPHATE WHET, 56 CALORIES 

1 cup hot milk. 1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid Phoa- 

2 teaspoons sugar, pbabe. 



114 BEVERAGES 

Heat the milk in a small saiicepui orer hot water or in 

a doTjble bcikr. Add ihe Acid Fhoqiliate. Cook without 
stirring Tunil the whey sepafates. Strain fhn)ugh cheese- 
cjoth and add the sn^r. If more acid is desired, add two 
or tLree drops of Horsford's Acid Phosphate. Serve hot or 
cold. 

CEEAJC OF TASTAX DXmC 

1 or V/z teaspoons Cream Lemon. 

of Tartar. Sugar. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Dissolve the cream of tartar in the boiling water, and 
flavor with lemon and sugar, \nien cold strain. Take as i 
refrigerant drink and diuretic 

JCALTED XILX AJm CI7SXAHT JZLLT, 85 naTj^ny|ff| 

I tahleKpoon Horlick's Malted 1 tablespoon cunmnt jelly. 

Milk. % cup cold water. 

% cup boiling water. Cracked ice. 

Mix the malted milk powder \i-ith a little of the boiling 
wuk-r to make a smooth paste, add the jelly and the rest of 
the* wat/;r, and stir till the jelly is dissolved. Add the cold 
wal^fr and ice, strain and serve daintily in glass or sherbet 
cup, partly filled, and set on a small plate witii doily. 

HALTED MILK WITH WIHE, 88 CALORIES 

J Uihh'HiHjon Horlick's Malted 1 teaspoon port or sherry win^ 

Milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

J rijp lioi watr;r. 

Mix I ho malted milk powder with enough of the hot water 
lo timka u Hinooth paste, then add gradually the rest of the 
hot wilier, the wine, and sugar if desired. 

JELLY AND ICE 

Wilh fi lar^e needle or pin, chip half a cup of ice into 
hiirt iiM Uii'iry HH u pea (or use an ice-scraper). Mix with it 
filintil. I ho Miiiruj (juantity of lemon, currant, blackberry, or 
hiirlM'iry jrlly. Very refreshing in fevers. Be sure ice is 
jM'i'frclly pure. 



ACID BEVERAGES 



I QBAFE WATEB, 135 CAXOBIES ' 

I 4 tablespoons grape jelly, ^ cup cold water. 

^L. i& '^V boiliag water. L.emoa juice and sugar. 

^k^Diasolve the jelly lo the boiling water, then add the cold 
^^■llfier, season to taste. Serve ice cold. 

CUBKAST WATER, 100-125 CAlOEIESi 

y^ cup currant juice or '/i '^up cold water. 

4 tableapoona currant jelly. Lemon juice and r.ugar. 

^ cup boiling water. 

Dissolve the jelly ia the boiling water (put over heat a 
few moments if it does not dissolve quickly). When dis- 
solved add the cold water, sweeten to taste, and add a little 
lemoa juice, if desired. Serve cold. 

APPLE, VATEB, 2S CALOSIES i 
1 Bour apple. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wipe a rosy-cheeked sour apple, and, without paring it, 
cut it into small pieces. Add the boiling water and one table- 
Epoon sugar. Cover, and let it stand till cold, then strain, 
And add lemon juice and sugar to taste. Serve cold. 

Note. — Dried apple may be substituted, or two baked ap- 
ples. 

HBTTBASB WAXES, 15 CALO&IESi 
1 fltalk rhubarb. Lemon juice. 

1 cup Ijoiling water. Sugar. 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and cut in thin slices, leaving 
on the ekin. Add the boiling water aijd one tablespoon sugar. 
Cover, and let stand till cold. Strain, add lemon juice and 
sugar to taste, and serve cold. 

takabjud wateh, eo cai.obies % 

2 tablespoons preserved tama- 1 cup boiling water. 
rinds. S ugar. 

Pour the water over the tamarinds and let stand one-half 
hour. Sweeten to taste, strain and serve cold. 

■ Without lemnn jaicn or ngar. 

■WUhool .iif«. Eatimilfd from iTeraga compoiition of ptoiBrToB. 



116 BEVERAGES 

TAXAEUn) HALTED UJLK, 128 nATA-tt^Tg| | 

2 tablespoons Horlick's 31alted % cup hot water. 
Milk. % cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon tamarinds. Cracked ice. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk ix>wder and M 
water^ add preserved tamarinds and the cold water. Stnin 
and chilly or add pure cracked ice. 

OBAPE JmCE 
(1^ cup = 120 Caloriee.); 

Partially fill a small glass with crushed ice, and add grape 
juice and serve. • 

Grape juice is a tonic food and a medicine for the sick 
and convalescent. It may be served plain, cold or hot, or 
diluted with one-third water. It is preferable to keep and 
serve the juice very cold. The bottles may be kept on ice 
until ready to serve. 

GRAPE LITHIA, 75 CALOBIES 

Pour one ounce of grape juice into a glass, dissolve itt 
it two teaspoons of sugar, and add four ounces of lithia 

water. 

GBAFE NECTAR, 2750 CALORIES 

(About 2 quarts) 

Boil together one pound of sugar and one-half pint of 
water until it spins a thread ; remove from the fire, and when 
cool, add the juice of, six lemons and one quart of grape 
juice. Let stand over night. Serve with ice water, car- 
bonated water or plain soda. 

TEA PUNCH 

Pew beverages find readier favor during the hot weather 
than tea punch. To make it, pour boiling lemonade, sweet- 
ened to taste, over the tea leaves, and allow the liquid to stand 
until cold. Then strain and serve in tall glasses, with shayed 
ice and slices of lemon. 



ACID BE7EBA0E8 117 

PBUIT PITNCH, 2100 CALOBZES 

(3 Quarts.) 

2 large teaspoons tea. 3 oranges. 

2 quarts boiling water. 1 pineapple. 

1 pound lump sugar. 5 bananas. 

8 lemons. 1 pint strawberries* 

Steep the tea in the boiling water for five minutes, strain 
and add the sugar, stirring until thoroughly dissolved. Grate 
the rind of the lemons and extract all the juice. Cut the 
oranges into slices, shred the pineapple, slice the bananas 
very thin and hull the strawberries. When the tea is cold 
add all the fruit, and let stand in the refrigerator for several 
hours. Place a cube of ice in the punch-bowl, pour the mix- 
ture around it, and when well chilled serve in punch glasses* 
If desired, one cup of Maraschino cherries may be added. 

To get the best results from the pineapple, pare and remove 
the eyes, tear apart with a silver knife and fork, reject the 
core, sprinkle with sugar and let stand on ice for twelve. 
hours. 

While fresh fruits are always preferable, canned berries 
and pineapples may be substituted. 

TUTTI-FBUTTI PUNCH, 2300 CALOKIES 

(3 Quarts.) 

2 quarts water. 2 tangerine oranges. 

1 pound sugar. 4 slices pineapple. 

2 lemons. 1 banana. 

4 oranges. 1 pint Maraschino cherries. 

2 dozen Malaga grapes. 

Boil together for five minutes the water and sugar. Add 
the grated rind of two lemons and four oranges, and continue 
boiling for ten minutes longer. Strain the syrup through 
cheese-cloth, and add one quart of cold water. Extract the 
juice from the lemons and oranges, strain and mix with two 
dozen Malaga grapes, cut in half and seeded, the tangerine 
oranges sliced, the pineapple shredded, the banana cut in 
slices, and one pint bottle of Maraschino cherries with their 



118 BEVERAOEB 

liquor. Add the fruit to the syrup, chill and serve same as 
•Fruit Punch. 

ALBUMINOirS BEVESAOES 

Albuminous or albuminized beverages are combinations of 
egg with water, milk, fruit juices and other fluids. Becent 
studies by Bateman ^ show that, contrary to general opini<Hi, 
raw egg white is not well digested. Hence the energy value 
of such drinks is not as high as might be expected from the 
composition of egg white. Cooking coagulates the albumin 
and makes egg white more digestible. (See experiment on 
the Effect of Temperature on Albumin, page 17.) 

Egg yolk, on the other hand, is easily digested raw. Since 
it contains about thirty per cent, of fat, the yolk has a 
much higher fuel value than the white. In cases where the 
patient's ability to digest fat is disturbed, egg yolk should be 
given with caution. The combination of egg, milk and sugar 
with alcohol which constitutes egg-nog may produce nausea 
and vomiting in a feeble stomach, especially in fever. Egg- 
nog is very nutritious and is extensively prescribed in certahi 
non-febrile diseases, especially for forced feeding in phthisiB 
and melancholia. 

Albuminous drinks are most easily prepared cold. When 
a hot liquid is used, it must be poured very slowly into the 
well beaten egg^ stirring constantly, so that lumps of coaga- 
lated albumin do not form. 

For the Diabetic, Sugar must be replaced by sweetina or 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but it has no 
food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 249. 

ENEBGY VALTJE OF AN EGG 2 

Calories 

1 Qgg (with shell) average size 74 

1 egg (without shell) average size 74 

1 white of Ggg average size 17 

1 yolk of Qgg average size 60 

EGG BROTH, 319 CALOBIES 3 

Yolk 1 Qgg, 1 cup hot milk. Brandy or some other stimulant 
1 tablespoon sugar, if required. Speck salt. 

1 Bateman, Journal of Biological Chemistry, Vol. 26, page 263. 

2 Range from 60 to 100 calories according to size of ew. 

3 Calculated with 1 tbsp. brandy. 277 calories if brandy is omitted. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 119 

Beat egg, add sugar and salt. Pour on carefully the hot 
milk. Flavor as desired, if with brandy or wine, use about one 
tablespoon. 

Note, — Dried and rolled bread crumbs may be added, if 
desired. The whole egg may be used. Hot water, broth or 
coffee, may be substituted for the milk ; nutmeg may be sub- 
stituted for the stimulant. 

EGQ-HOG NO. I, 831 CAIOEIES i 

1 e^. ^ cup milk. 

Speck sitit. IVi tabieepoon wine or 

% tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon brandy (or leas). 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt ; blend thoroughly, add 
the milk and liquor. Serve immediately. 

Note. — Have e^s and milk chilled before blending. A 
grating of nutmeg may be substituted for the stimulant. A 
lemonade shaker may be used for the blending. 

EQQ-ITDa SO. n, 231 CALORIES > 

1 egg. ?4 cup milk. 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or lew). 

Speck Ealt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt, and beat until 
creamy. Add the milk and brandy. Beat the white till 
foamy (not stiff and dry), and fold it iu lightly. Serve im- 
mediately. 

JUNKET Eaa-NOG, 2S8 CALORIES > 
1 egg. 2 fenspoona rum, brandy, or 

1 cup milk. wine. 

I tablespoon lugftr. Vi Junket Tablet. 

Beat white and yolk of egg separately, very light; blend 
the two. Add the sugar dissolTed in the mm. Heat the 
railk lukewarm, stir into the egg mixture, and add quickly 
the tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour into small warm 
glasses, and sprinkle grated nutraeg over the top. Stand in 
warm room undisturbed until firm, and then put on ice to 
cool. This can be retained by the most delicate stomach, 
> Witbont llqooi. 



120 BEVERAGES 

BEEF EGO-NOG, 200 CALOaZSfl 

1 egg. Yg cup hot beef broth. 

Speck salt. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

1 tublespoon sugar. 

Beat tlie egg slightly, add the salt and sugar; add grad- 
ually the hot broth; add brandy and strain. Sugar and 
brandy may be omitted if preferred. 

COPPEE EGG-NOG, 175 CALOKIESi 

1 egg. y^ scant cup miUc or cream. 

11^ teaspoon sugar. i^ scant cup strong coffee. 

Chill ingredients, and blend as for Egg-nog No. II. 

PINEAPPLE EGG-NOG 

Prepare as per Egg-nog No. I or II ; omit the brandy and 
use pineapple juice to taste. 

EGG AND RTTH, 315 CALOEIES 

Pamous In the Treatment of Phthisis 
1 cup fresh milk. Speck salt. 

Yolk 1 i^gg. Few grains nutm^. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon rum. 

I^(»nt yolk, add sugar, salt and nutmeg; add milk and rum. 

Note. — For consumptives, taken at about 6 a.m., often 
pn^vcnts the exhausting sweats which accompany the morn- 
ing doze. Also may be given to a patient before dressing to 
prevent exhaustion. 

EGG AND BRANDY, 350 CALOKIES 2 

.') e^^H. 4 tablespoons brandy. 

4 tablcHpoons cold water. Sugar. 

Nutmeg. 

Boat the ogga, add cold water, brandy and sweeten to taste. 

A little nutmeg may be added. Give a tablespoonful at a 

time. 

EGG AND WINE, 125 CALORIES 2 

1 egg. 1 wineglass sherry. 

% cup cold water. Nutmeg. 

Sugar. 

> Calculated with milk. 
'Without sugar. 



r 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 



Beat the egg. Heat the water and ■wine together but not 
boiling; pour onto the egg, stirring constantly; flavor with 
sugftr and nutmeg. 

£00 LEUOITADE, 192 CAXOHIES 

1 egg. 2. tablespoona lemon juiee. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup cold water. 

Beat the egg thoroughly, add the sugar and lemon juice; 
pour in gradually the water, stirring until smooth and well 
mixed. Strain and serve. Two tablespoons of sherry or port 
niay be added if desired. 

MALTED UIIK AHS EGQ, US CAIOSTES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 20 drops acid pliuspliate. 
Milk. 1 tnblespoon i^rushed ice. 

1 tableapoon crushed fruit. ^ cup ice nater. 

1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, crushed fruit and egg and 
beat five minutes. Add the phosphate and crushed ice, blend- 
ing thoroughly. Strain and add ice water or cold carbonated 
water, and a grating of nutmeg to flavor. 
STDEES mZTUHE 
Egga and Brandy = 106 Calories. 

" 2 egg yolks, 50 c. c. of brandy, 120 c. c. of aqua aurantii 
florum (sugar or syrup enough to sweeten), has consider- 
able nutritive, as well as stimulative, value, and is eligible 
for use when such a combination is indicated." 
OBAPE YOLK, 150 GALOSIES 
I egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablSBpoon sugar. '2 tablcapoona grape juice. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and stand aside while 
the while ia thoroughly whipped. Add the grape juice to the 
yolk and pour this onto the whipped white, blending care- 
fully. Serve cold. Have all ingredienta chilled before blend- 



182 BEVERAGES 

GRAPE TUICZ AHS £00, 270 fiAT^^jM 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

y2 cup rich milk. ' ^, cup grape juice. 

Beat yolk and white separately very light To the yoll 
add milk, sugar and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the 
white add a little powdered sugar and a taste of grape juice. 
Serve on yolk mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 

MITLLED WIHE, 250-280 CALOBIES 

1 ounce stick cinnamon. ^ cup sherry, port» or dani 

A slight grating nutmeg. wine. 

^ cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Put the spices into top of a double boiler with the water. 
Cover and cook over hot water ten minutes. Add wine to the 
spiced water and bring to the boiling point. Beat the egg 
to a stiff froth, add sugar and pour on the mulled wine^ and 
beat well. Serve at once. 

ALBUMINIZED XILK, 98 CALORIES 

y^ cup milk (sterile). Salt. 

White 1 egg. 

Put milk and white of egg in a glass fruit jar, cover with 
air tight cap and rubber band. Shake until thoroughly 
blended. Strain into glass. A few grains of salt may be added 
if desired. Two teaspoons of Sanatogen added = 30 calories. 

Note. — The blending may be done in a lemonade shaker. 

ALBTnamZED water, 13 CALORIES 1 

% cup ice-cold water Lemon juice. 

(boiled and chilled). Sugar. 

White 1 egg. 

Blend as for *' Albuminized Milk/^ serve plain or add lemon 
juice and sugar to taste. If set on ice to keep cool, shake be- 
fore serving. Two teaspoons of Sanatogen added = 30 calories. 

ALBUMIN WATER (FOR INPANTS;, 18 CALORIES 

Albumin water is utilized chiefly in cases of acute stomach 
and intestinal disorders in which some nutritious and easily 

^ Without lemon juice or lugar. 



r 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 



assimilated food is needed ; albumin water is then very ueefnl. 
The white of one egg is dissolved in eight ounces or a pint 
of water which has been boiled and cooled. — Koplik. 

AXBTTianiZED CLAU WATEE, 18 CALORIES 

1 cup cold water. Whita 1 egg. 
Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired, add the unbeaten white of egg, 
and follow general directions for " Albuminized Milk." 
Serve cold in dainty glasses. This drink will often be re- 
tained by the stomach when other nourishment is rejected. 

Note. — Milk may be substituted for the water. 

AiBmnnizES orakge, so calokies i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

Juice 1 orange. 

To the unbeaten white add the orange juice, sweeten to 
taste and blend thoroughly. Strain and set on ice to eooL 
Serve cold. 

AlBUKmiZED SHEBRT, 22 CALOEIES i 
White 1 egg. Sugar. 

iJi tablpBpcmn Hherry. 

Beat the white stiff, add slowly, while beating, the wine and 
sugar. Serve cold. 

Note, — Have all ingredients cold before blending. 

AXBTTKimZEI) QSAPE TVICE, 40 CALOEIES i 

2 tableapooDs grape Sugar. 
juice. Chopped ice. 

White 1 egg. 

Put in a dainty glass the grape juice, and the beaten white 
of egg and a little pure chopped ice; sprinkle sugar over the 
top and serve. 



124 BEVERAGES 



STAKCH7 BEVERAGES 



Starchy drinks consist of cereals or cereal products, cooked 
thoroughly in a large amount of water and strained before 
serving. Arrowroot, cornstarch, tapioca, rice and rice flonr 
are nearly pure starch. Oats, barley and. wheat in forms 
which include the whole grains contain besides starch some 
protein and fat, and also valuable mineral matter, especially 
phosphorus, iron, and calcium salts.^ In starchy drinks, 
these ingredients are necessarily present in small amoimts; 
hence they have little food value, unless milk or other 
liighly nutritive material is added. Such drinks are of value 
when only a small quantity of nutriment can be taken. 

Principles of Cooking, As the chief ingredient is starch, 
long cooking is necessary, in water at a high temperature 
(212° F.), which softens the cellulose, and breaks open the 
starch grains, so that it can be very readily digested. Time 
of cooking should be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

Digestion, The action of ptyalin is very rapid, and if these 
drinks are sipped slowly, so as to be thoroughly niixed with 
saliva, a considerable portion of starch may be changed to 
sugar before reaching the intestines. 

For the Diabetic, Sugar must be replaced by sweetina or 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but it has no 
food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 249. 

BARLEY WATER, 180 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons pearl barley. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or 
over night; in same water, boil gently over direct heat two 
hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to one 
pint if used for infant feeding, and to one cup for the adult. 
Strain through muslin. 

Note. — Cream or milk and salt may be added, or Jemon 
juice and sugar. • Barley water is an astringent or demulcent 
drink used to reduce laxative condition. 

1 See Mineral Matter, p. 17. 



STABCHY BEVEEAQES 135 



^^B BAHLEY water (ISFAITT irBEDINa), 19 CALOBIES 

^^^B teaspoon barley flour. 1 pint boiling water. 

^m7% tablespoons cold water. 

Blend flour and cold water to a Bmooth paste in top of 
double boiler; add gradually the boiling water. Boil over 
direct heat five minutes, stirring constantly, tben put over 
boiling water and cook 15 minutes longer, etirring frequently. 
Older infants take the barley water in much more concentrated 
form. Barley water is used as a diluent with normal infants 
and in forms of diarrhcea. 

Note. — For children or adulta, use i^ tablespoon barley or 
rice flour, 1 cup boiling water, 14 teaspoon salt. 
RICE WATER, 100 CALORIES i 

2 tablespoons rice. Salt. 

3 cups cold water. Milk. 

Wash tbe rice; add cold water and soak thirty minutes, 
heat gradually io boiling point and cook one hour or until 
rice is tender. Strain, reheat and dilute with boiling water 
or hot milk to desired consistency. Season with salt. 

Note. — Sugar may be added if desired, and cinnamon, if 
allowed, may be cooked with it, and will assist in reducing a 
laxative condition. 

RICE WATER HO. II, 160 CALORIES 
3 tableapoons rice. 1 tabtespoon stoned raisins, 

1 pint boiling water. 

Wash rice, put into saucepan ivith water and raisins; boil 
gently for one hour. Strain. When cold serve. Sugar or 
Bait may be added to taste. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in bowel trouble. 
OATHEAL WATER, GO CALORIES 
1 tablespoon oattneal. Speek salt. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 1 quart boiling water. 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt and stir into the 
boiling water. Boil three hours: replenish the water as it 

iWllhODl milk. 



126 BEVEBA0E8 

boils away. Strain through a fine sieve or cheese dotk 
Season, serve cold. Different brands of oatmeal vary eonsid* 
erably in the amount of water which they take np in cookiiig, 
and sufficient should always be added to make iliis drink al« 
most as thin as water. 

OATMEAL WATEB NO. U, 880 CALOBIBS^ 

Yz cup fine oatmeal. 1 quart water. 

Use sterile water (boiled and cooled). Add oatmeal and 
stand in warm place (covered), for one and one-half hours. 
Strain, season, and cool. Sometimes used for dyspeptics. 

TOAST WATEB, 850 CALORIES 

1 cup stale bread toasted. Salt. . 

1 cup boiling water. 

Cut bread in thin slices and in inch squares. Dry thor- 
oughly in oven until crisp and a delicate brown. Measure, 
and break into crumbs; add the water and let it stand one 
hour. Rub through a fine strainer, season and serve hot or 
cold. The nourishment of the bread is easily absorbed in 
this way and valuable in cases of fever or extreme nausea. 

Note. — Milk or cream and sugar may be added. 

CRUST COFFEE 

Take some pieces and crusts of brown bread and dry them 
in a slow oven until thoroughly hard and crisp. Place in a 
mortar and pound or roll. Pour boiling water over and let 
soak for about fifteen minutes. This when strained carefully 
is very acceptable to invalids who are tired of the ordinary 
drinks, such as lemonade, etc. 

CRACKER PANADA, 100 CALORIES 2 

4 hard crackers. Sugar. 

1 quart water. 

Break crackers into pieces and bake quite brown ; add water 
and boil fifteen minutes, allow to stand three or four minutes. 
Strain off the liquid through a fine wire sieve ; season with salt 

^ Estimated on one-half the oatmeal. 
•Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 



^^^^ a little sugar. This is a nourishing beverage for infants 
Blnat are teething, and with the addition of a little wine and 
nutmeg, is often prescribed for invalids recovering from a 
fever. 

BBXAD FAHADA, 162 CALORIES 
IVi cup3 water. 34 cup white wine. 

1 tttbleapoon flugar. 1 tableapooo lemon juice. 

2 tableapoona stale white bread Nutmeg, 
crumba. 

Put water and sugar on to cook, just before it commences 
to boil add the bread crumbs; stir well, and let it boil three 
or four minutes. Add the wine, lemon and a grating of nut- 
meg; let it boil up once, remove from fire, and keep it closely 
covered until it is wanted for use. 

MISCELLANEOirS BEVEEAGES 

TEA — COFFEE —CHOCOLATE — COCOA AKD SPECTAL HOH-NTr- 
TEITIVE BEVERAGES 

TEA 
Source. The tea of commerce ia prepared from the leaves 
of a shrub cultivated for this purpose in China, Japan, India, 
Ceylon, and other portions of Southern and Eastern Asia. 

Classes of Tea. There are two great classes of tea, the 
green and the black. The difference lies in the mode of 
preparation. Green teas are quickly dried and fired; black 
teas are allowed to ferment a few hours before drying and 
firing. 

Active Principles of Tea. Tea has no "food value. Its 
principal constituents are caffein, tannic acid, and a volatile 
oil. 

Its flavor is due to the volatde oil; its stimulating prop- 
erties to the caffeio. Tannic acid is a soluble, bitter sub- 
stance, which has a retarding effect on digestion. 

When tea leaves are placed in boiling water, caffein is ex- 
tracted very rapidly. Tannic acid is less soluble, and there- 
fore it is possible to make tea with little of this principle by 
letting the water stand on the leaves only a short time. In 



128 



BEVERAOES 



praotioo, the liot, but not boiling water, should stand on the 
ioti from 8 to 5 minutes. The water should be soft, as 
limo ill hard water tends to make tannin dissolve more freelv. 

m 

(ilroen or mixed tea is more powerful than black tea. 

t^ffcrt.^ of Tea, Tea is mildly stimulating and hence re- 
frosliinjr* as it removes the sense of bodily fatigue. But the 
tannio aoid retards the digestive action of the saliva and gas- 
trie juioe, and lends to produce constipation. Tea is there- 
fore not suitable for persons suffering from gastric disorders. 
Tlie oatToin is over-stimulating to the nervous system of 
many {vrsons, oausing restlessness, sleeplessness and muscular 
tremors. It should not be given to children, nor to adnlis 
Nxith a teudenev to nervousness. If vou wish to avoid ihe 
retard ins: eiTivt of tea on salivary- digestion, direct the paries: 
not to sip tlie beverage with the meal, but to eat first and 
livink afiiTNvard: in this way time is given for the saliva 
to 'jvrform i:s intondeil functions. 

y. - :'.-: 7U:rj:iV. Suinir must Iv replaced by sweetina :: 
>:UvV.;ir-.::. 1: is mar.v ti^r.es sweeier than susar b"at it has 2? 
r.w. \:r.v.i\ N^^:o Sr.crsT S*3>:i::::e>, r^aire •49. 



COFFEE 

>. :.-.:•. 1 :'.:s rvvorsp? :? prfpsrr.! frorc :he seesis of. n-: 
..■..:■.::■:>. :"...*;:;:■•. o :■>:::.:'.>.- ::::r.: in Arabia. The pnfee 



... .X ^il ^-•-i^ -l^ •- 






" m 

Tr.-- s.TiTf rriDjipIfs of e::- 
;. : :. ..:■■. :■:. :^ -:•: . z : -w^ ±_ -jjf. 

•- ■ ■ - — — — ■- - *i- ■ I » a. >. 






.t ' 



St 



•e i' 



.•-> y > - . 



■ ■ . 4 • 



■• «i 



*i- 21£!r»-llli? 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 139 

eyBtem; the heart action ia considerably increaBcd in rate 
VB well as strength. Indirectly, this results in an increased 
activity of the kidneys. The respiration is deepened and the 
cerebral centers excited. For this reason it often proves use- 
ful in cases of opium and alcoholic poisoning. In some per- 
sons these effects are very mild; in others, they are severe, 
producing nervousness and insomnia, and coffee should then 
I)e withheld. It removes the sensation of fatigue, for wliich 
reason it is used by many nurses when on uight duty. It 
should never be given to children. 

Coffee or tea taken with either milk or sugar alone is much 
more healthful and less likely to cause ill effects than when 
both are used. 

Frequently after operation freshly made black coffee or 
tea without milk or sugar will be retained, and in some cases 
will check vomiting. Give the patient one-half teaspoonful at 
frequent intervals. 

Many preparations have been put upon the market as 
coffee substitutes, but they lack the aromatic oil and caffein 
for which it is really prized. Tliey make, however, pleasing 
liot beverages, and served with sugar and cream, have a food 
value. 

CHOCOLATE AHD COCOA 

Source. Cocoa and chocolate are commercially prepared 
from the seeds of the cacao tree, Theobroma cacao. The seeds 
(or beans) are contained in a pulpy fruit 7-12 inches long, 
3-5 inches in diameter, in shape intermediate between a melon 
and a cucumber. The fruit is gathered and allowed to re- 
main in a heap to ferment a few days, when the pulp becomes 
loosened. The seeds lose some of their bitterness during this 
process, upon which the flavor of the bean largely depends. 
They are then dried in the sun, cleaned and sorted, and care- 
fully roasted. After this the thin outer husks are removed 
and sold under tlie name of cocoa shells. The broken roasted 
beans constitute cocoa nibs. 

Chocolate is prepared by grinding the nibs between hot 
rollers to a great degree of fineness. The presence of 50 per 



130 BEVERAGES 

cent, fat causes the mass to form a paste* This is molded 
and cooled with or without the addition of sugar and flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoa consists of chocolate deprived of a part of the fat 
Sugar or starch or both, are sometimes added. 

Resemblance to Tea and Coffee. Chocolate and cocoa con- 
tain a volatile oil, set free by the fermentation process and 
further modified by roasting, to which, the characteristic 
flavor is due. They also contain tannic acid, but in smaller 
amount than in tea or coffee. The stimulating principle 
of chocolate and cocoa is an alkaloid closely allied to caffein, 
called theobromin. It is less apt to induce nervous symptoms 
than either tea or coflfee, but in many persons their stimulat- 
ing power is distinctly felt. 

Nutritive Value. Unlike tea and coflfee, chocolate and co- 
coa have a high food value, as shown by the following 
analysis : 

Protein Fat Carbo- Mineral Water Caloriei 

hydrates Matter per lb. 

Chocolate 12.5% 47.1% 26.8% 3.3% 10.3% 2720 

Breakfast Cocoa 21.6% 28.9% 37.7% 7.2% 4.6% 2320 

By reason of the high percentage of fat, chocolate is likely 
to cause indigestion when used to excess, or when taken in 
addition to an otherwise heavy meal. Cocoa, being less rich 
in fat, is free from this objection. 

The use of cocoa often makes milk acceptable when it 
would otherwise be refused. Hence this beverage is good 
in convalescence, if there are no digestive disturbances. When 
made weak, it can also be given to children in moderation. 

Principles of CooJcing. Chocolate and cocoa both contain 
considerable starch, and hence should be boiled to be di- 
gestible. The cooked starch also serves to thicken the bev- 
erage somewhat, and to make it smoother and more homo- 
geneous. On account of the volatile oil to which the flavor 
is due, the cooking should be continued only long enough to 
alter the starch, otherwise the oil is lost. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 133) 

lEA 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon tea, 1 cup boiling water. 

Scald the teapot, which should be silver, crockery or granite 
■ware, not tin. Put in the tea, add the freshly boiling water 
and let it infuse three to five minutes. By no means allow 
it to boil, for boiling dissipates the aroma and extracts the 
tannin. Strain into hot cup and serve with cream or mUk 
and lump sugar, or with sugar and a slice of lemon. 
KirSSIAK TEA. 
Heat cup, fill three-fourths full of boiling water and dip in 
it two teaspoons tea (put in tea-ball or fine small strainer), 
until strong enough. Serve hot with sugar and a slice of 
lemon. 

Note. — Lemon is a good substitute for milk. The lemon 
prevents the headache and sleeplessness which the mHk in 
tea causes to some persons. 

COTTEE HADE tH TEE FEBCOIATOE 
Breakfast Coffee. After-Dinner Coffee. 

2 tablespoons ooBee. Increase quantitj of coffee to 

I cup cold water. suit the taste. 

Prom the percolator take out the cup with its tube, fill the 
percolator with the quantity of water desired, replace cup and 
tnbe (covering tube with thumb), and put in the coffee, then 
put on the spreader plate and cover. Cook fifteen minutes. 

Note. — If warm or hot water is used it takes less time for 
cooking. Never use boiling water. It takes a little longer 
with the urns than with the pots. 

When heat is applied to the foot of the pot, a jet of water, 
lukewarm at first, but quickly increasing in temperature as 
the pumping process goes on, is forced up through the tube, 
falling on the spreader plate; by this, it is evenly distributed 
over the coffee, through which it percolates down into the pot 
again. This pumping continues until the water reaches the 
boiling point, when water and steam together come up 
through the tube. The coffee is thus ready to serve. 



] 



[^ 



132 BEVERA0E8 

CodcQ made in this way has a delicious aioma, a fine flavor 
and an absence of the bitter taste caused by boiling. Many 
can only drink coflfee when made in this way that cannot when 
made in other ways. 

\\ny ooffoe in the berry and grind it fresh every day, for 
ground colToe soon loses its aroma. 

BOILED COFFEE 

(To make seven cups of coffee.) 

1 Clip coffee. 6 cups boiling water. 
Vs ^SS *^"d shell. 1 cup cold water. 

Scald coffee pot. "Wash egg, beat slightly and add crushed 
slicll, coffee and one-half cup cold water. Put into scalded 
coffee pot, add boiling water and let boil up three times, 
stirring down after each time (or boil five minutes) ; then 
add one-lialf cup cold water. Let it stand 20 minutes where 
it will keep hot but not boil. Serve in hot coffee cups with 
cream and sugar, or hot milk may be used in place of cream. 

Note. — A favorite blend of coffee is three parts Java and 
one part Mocha. 

BOILED COFFEE 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tabli'spoons corfoe. % cup boiling water* 

1 vi*^ slu'H or 1 lonspoon *4 cup cold water, 
*'KS whito. 

Follow general directions for blending in preceding redpei 
1^)11 three niinnics and keep hot 15 minutes. 

For iho. Diabetic. The following varieties may be usei 
Pour coffee into a slightly beaten egg or yolk; or one teaspoon 
butter; or lieavy cream. Substitute saccharin for sugar. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

(Individual Kule.) 

2 talilcspooiiH finely ground % cup boiling water. 
votYvv. 

Vlace a pieire of filter ])aper over a strainer and put the 
(fofl'ec* ii) it. Jlold the strainer over a hot coffee cup and pour 
tile boiling water slowly over the coffee. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 133 

COFFEE WITH LACTOSE, 800 CALOBIES i 

Calories 

1% ounces of milk sugar (about 3 tablespoons) 180 

4 to 5 ounces of strong coffee (8 to 10 tablespoons) 

2 ounces of cream (4 tablespoons) 120 

By previously dissolving the milk sugar in water, 72 grams 
of it may be put into a cup of coffee 

HALTED MILK COFFEE, 61 CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 tablespoon ground coffee. 
Milk. Sugar. % cup boiling water. 

Mix the malted milk powder, coffee and water, stirring 
well. Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired. 

Or one to four teaspoons of malted milk powder may be 
put in a cup and ordinary coffee poured directly upon it, 
stirring constantly. 

COCOA WITH LACTOSE 490-470 CALORIES i 
Vocoa with milk: Calories 

1 roimding teaspoonful of cocoa 50 

2 oimces of milk sugar 240 

4 ounces of milk 80 

2 ounces of cream 120 

Mix the sugar and cocoa ; cook in the milk until dissolved. 
Serve with the cream. 

Cocoa with toaier: Calories 

1 Heaping teaspoonful of cocoa 50 

2 ounces of milk sugar 240 

% cup water — 3 ounces of cream 180 

Mix cocoa and sugar, add the water, and boil. Then add 
the cream, or use less cream and serve with whipped cream. 

BBEAXPAST COCOA, 847 CALOBIES 

(To make six cups of cocoa.) 

3 tablespoons Walter Baker's 1 cup boiling water. 
cocoa. 3 cups scalded milk. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

1 Dr. W. Cdtoman, " American Journal of Medical Sciences." January, 1912. 
s WitlMfttt sngsr. 



134 BEVERAGES 

Scald milk in double boiler. Put the cocoa and sugar in 
a saucepan and slowly pour on the hot water, stirring all the 
time. Boil five minutes, add the scalded milk, beat until 
foamy with Dover egg beater to prevent formation of skin. 
Serve in heated cups. One-half cup of cream is a great addi- 
tion to cocoa. 

BBEAZFAST COCOA, 197 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's % cup boiling water, 

cocoa. % cup scalded milk. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

Follow general directions for blending and cooking in pre- 
ceding recipe. Boiling three minutes. 

Note. — Cocoa may be served hot or ice cold, with or with- 
out whipped cream. It may be served hot, poured over the 
beaten white or yolk of Qgg. One-third teaspoon of brandy 
may be added if ordered by the physician. 

MALTED MILK COCOA, 72 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 teaspoon cocoa. 

Mix the malted milk powder, cocoa and water, stirring welL 
Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired and serve hot. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 1220 CALORIES 

(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. ^ tablespoon cornstarch. 

2 ounces Walter Baker's choco- 3 tablespoons sugar, 
late. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with one-fourth cup of the milk. Put 
remainder of milk in double boiler to heat. When the milk 
is scalded, stir in the cornstarch and cook ten minutes. 
Scrape the chocolate and put it in a small saucepan; add 
sugar and water and place the saucepan over hot water. Stir 

* Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 135 

constantly until the mixture is smooth and glosB)'. Add the 
hot milk and beat the mixture with egg beater until frothy; 
or it may be poured back and forth from the boiler to a 
pitcher, holding high the vessel from, which it is poured. 
This will give a thick froth. Serve at once. 

Note. — If you prefer not to thicken the chocolate, omit 
the cornstarch. 

Whipped cream may be served with chocolate, or it may 
be poured onto the beaten yolk of egg. 

If desired, flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

7UUN CHOCOLATE, 305 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup millc. Vfe tablespoon comfitarch. 

Va ounce chocolate. %, tablespoon sugar. 

Following directions for blending and cooking in preced- 
ing recipe. 

CHOCOLATE, TTEinTA BTTLE, 1427 CALORIES 

(Eight Cupa.) 

1 quart milk. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 
4 ounces Walter Baker's vanilla 1 tablespoon Bugar. 

chocolate. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Scrape chocolate and put 
sugar and water into a small saucepan; heat over hot water, 
stirring till smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into the 
hot milk and beat well with an egg heater. Serve at once, 
putting a tablespoon of whipped cream in each cup, and 
filling with the chocolate. 

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla, 
but in that case use one teaspoon vanilla and three generous 
tablespoons sugar. 

CHOCOLATE UILE SHAKE, 295 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.] 

2 tablespoons chopped Ice. '/^ cup milk. 

2 tableipoons chocolate eytup, '4 cup soda water or carbonated 

3 tablespoons whipped cream. water. 



136 BEVERAGES 

Shake or stir well before drinking. A tablespoon of 
vanilla ice-cream is a desirable addition. It is a deliciona 
drink, even if the soda or carbonated water be omitted. 

A plainer drink is made by combining the Bymp, three- 
fourths cup milk and the ice, and shaking well. 

CHOCOLATE SYRITP — TTSED IN PBECEBIHO, 1018 CALORIES 

1 ounce (3 tablespoons) Walter 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Baker's soluble chocolate. 1% cups sUgar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Put chocolate in a saucepan and add the water gradually, 
stirring all the time. Add sugar and stir till it begins to 
boil ; boil three minutes^ strain^ cool and add one tablespoon 
vanilla. Bottle, and keep in a cold place* 

SPECIAL nON-MUTiUTlVE BEVERAGES 

FLAXSEED TEA 

1 tablespoon whole flaxseed. Lemon juice to taste. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Wash flaxseed thoroughly, put it with the cold water in a 
saucepan, simmer one hour, add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste and strain. 

Note. — If too thick, add hot water. 

Valuable in case of inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

CINKAXOK WATEB 
1 ounce stick cinnamoc. 1 pint boiling water. 

Boil together fifteen minutes. Strain. Serve hot or cold. 

Note. — Good in bowel trouble. The pure cinnamon is 
quite different from the coarse bark usually sold for cinna- 
mon, which is really only cassia. 

TLAZSXEI) AKD LICORICE TEA 

1 ounce flaxseed. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 drachms licorice root. 



NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 137 

Ponr the boiling water over whole flaxseed and bruised 
licorice-root, cover and cook yery slowly for four hours. 
Strain. 

XIKE VATEB. 

1 tablespoon of slaked lime. 1 quart boiUil or diatilled water. 

Put the lime and water in a corked bottle and shake thor- 
oughly two or three times during the first hour. The lime 
ehould then be allowed to settle, and after twenty-four hours 
the upper clear fluid carefully poured or siphoned off into 
a glass-stoppered bottle. Keep tightly corked, as it absorbs 
carbon dioxide from the air. Keep in a cool place. 
BRAIT TEA 
% cup wheat bran. Egg shell, 

2 cups eald water. Jlolaases, lemon juice. 

Boil the water and bran twenty minutes, and settle it with 
an egg shell or a little cold water. Sweeten with molasses, 
and lemon juice can be used if desired, 
SLIPPERY EIH TEA 
2 teaspoons slippery elra pow- Sugar. 

der or piece of the bark. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pour the water npon the alipperj-elm powder or bark. 
"When cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice and sugar. 
This is soothing in case of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

HXSB TEA 

Pour one cup of boiling water over two tablespoons of 
herbs. Cover the bowl, set it over the tea-kettle and steep 
ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. 

QlneES, TEA 

Mil one tablespoon of molasses with one-half teaspoon of 
ginger; pour on gradually one-half cup boiling water, and 
boil one minute. Add one-half cup milk and when thor- 
oughly heated, serve. 



chapter ix 
'aniual eoods 

The important foods derived from the animal kingdom are 

— Meat — Poultry and Game — Fish — Shell Fish — Egga 

— Milic and Milk Products — Sweetbreads — Gelatin — Beef 
Preparations — Meat Broth and Jellies. 

Composition. Milk is the only animal food in ■which all 
the nutrients are represented in forms and proportions suit- 
able to supply all the needs of the body. It is properly called 
a " complete food." Eggs, also often called " complete food," 
contain both body-building and fuel food-stuffs, but are in- 
complete in the sense that the amount of carbohydrate is so 
small as to be almost negligible. 

Meats are valuable primarily as sources of protein. When 
fat is present they are also useful for fuel. 

Meat extracts are chiefly valuable for their flavor and stim- 
ulating properties. 

The Proteins of animal foods are of many forma, con- 
spicuous among which are albumin of egg-white; myosin of 
muscle; casein of milk; fibrin of blood; nucleo-proteia of 
liver and sweetbreads; collagen of connective tissue. 

The Fats are chiefly mixtures of stearin, palmitin and olein 
in varying proportions; small amounts of esters of volatile 
fatty acids; and compounds of fats with phosphorus Jn the 
form of lecithin and related substances. 

Extractives. Nitrogenous extractives are found chiefly in 
meat, to which they help to give the characteristic flavor and 
the stimulating properties. They consist chiefly of purins 
{adenine, guanine, xanthine, hypoxanthine and uric acid) ; 
and ereatin and creatinin. 

Carbohydrates, The carbohydrates are represented mainly 
138 



ANIMAL FOODS 139 



Eilk, and glycogen in sliellfish. As a rule, carbo- 
egligible in animal foods. 
Water. Water is present in all animal foods. Some ex- 
amples, showing the varying proportions in different kinds, 
are given in the following table ; 



Mineral Matter. Milk and eggs are more valuable sources 
of ash constituents than any other animal foods. 

ileats are not particularly useful in this respect. They 
are deficient in calcium, and while they contain considerable 
iron, it is not in as useful a form as that in eggs or milk. 
Most of the ash constituents found in the body are, however, 
represented in flesh foods. 

Digestibility. As a class, animal foods are easy of diges- 
tion. They contain little indigestible residue, and the nu- 
trients are almost completely absorbed. Prepared for the ta- 
ble, they are more concentrated than most vegetable foods. 
Hence animal foods are frequently chosen for invalids and 
convalescents, regardless of their high protein content. 

Disadvantage of a Purely Animal Diet. The chief dis- 
advantages of a purely animal diet are that it does not afford 
sufficient bulk to maintain the proper functioning of the 
alimentary tract, owing to the lack of indigestible residue; 
and that it loads the body with an escess of nitrogenous ma- 
teria, which is not only unnecessary for repair, but may 
cause harm if not speedily eliminated and the elimination of 
which is a strain on the excretory organs. Furthermore, pro- 
tein raises the metabolism so that more food is actually re- 
quired than if carbohydrates and fats are used as fuel. For 
further discussion of the relative merits of animal and veg- 
etable diets, see page S33. 



140: ANIMAL FOODS 

MEAT 

The term meat includes the flesh of all animals used for 
food, as beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, poultry and game. 
Lean meat is almost a pure protein food. 

. Composition of Meat, 

1. Muscle fibers, composed of proteins, extractives, inor- 
ganic salts *and \^ater. 

The principal protein is albumin. " Muscle albumin is 
often called myosin. 

The nitrogenous extractives include creatin, creatinin 
and purins. (See page 15.) 

The inorganic salts are chiefly those of potassium, 
sodium and magnesium. 

The greater part of the iron is in combination with 
the hemoglobin of the red blood corpuscles. 

2. Connective tissue which binds together the muscle fibers; 
this consists chiefly of a protein called collagen which 
yields gelatin on boiling. 

3. Fat interspersed between the fibers. 

Nutritive Value, Meat is rich in nitrogenous compounds 
and fats and contains mineral elements which are of value 
to the body. It is easily cooked and improves in flavor during 
the process ; it requires less mastication and is more easily di- 
gested and assimilated than most vegetable food. 

Meat is lacking in carbohydrates and, unless a large amount 
of fat is present, is to be regarded as a source of nitrogen 
rather than of energy. It is to be remembered, however, that 
protein can be burned in the animal body to supply energy. 
(See page 14.) Since protein burns up faster than other 
foods, and very little of the nitrogen can be retained in the 
body, it is most advantageously used in small amounts along 
with plenty of fats and carbohydrates. 

The most important food element in meat is the myosin or 
muscle albumin. The collagen belongs to a group of pro- 
teins often called gelatinoids or albuminoids which, unlike 
the albumins, cannot sustain life alone. They are able, how- 




MEAT 141 

ever, to replace other proteins to the extent of two thirds of 
the ordinary nitrogen requirement. In young animals, the 
connective tissue is soft and the tisHues are easily masticated ; 
but in older animals it becomes very firm, is hard to chew and 
often escapes digestion unless softened or changed to gelatin 
by cooking. 

The nitrogenous extractives have no nutritive value, and 
in fact, represent products either of waste (katabolism) or of 
insufficient oxidation. Unless promptly excreted, they may 
cause an excess of uric acid or other disorders. However, 
they bestow upon cooked meat its characteristic flavor and 
odor; in the stomach, act as stimulants to the secretion of 
gastric juice; and exert on the nervous system a stimulating 
influence similar to that of tea and coiTce. 

Digestibility of Meat. Meat is easily digested) the degree 
of ease depending upon the following conditions: (1) The 
^e of the animal when killed, with the exception of veal, the 
flesh of the young animal is more easily digested, but less 
nutritious than that of the older one; (3) the time the animal 
is kept before cooking; (3) the sex; (4) the care bestowed on 
the animal during life; (5) the quantity of fat. Lean meat 
is more easily digested than fat meat. 

Absorption of Meat. Meat is very readily absorbed and 
leaves little residue in the intestines; only 3 per cent, of meat 
taken is lost in the process of digestion. 

Uncooked Meat. Ordinary raw meat ia not quite as easily 
digested as cooked meat. Owing to color and flavor, it is not 
appetizing and could not be taken continuously. However, 
when chopped fine or scraped free from connective tissue, so 
as to be easily attacked by the digestive juices, it is more 
readily digested than cooked meat. 

Effect of Cooking Meat Proper cooking makes meat more 
digestible, as it softens the connective tissues, thus causing a 
separation of the muscular fibers, and enabling the digestive 
juices to act more advantageously. The color and flavor are 
improved. There is a loss of weight by evaporation of water, 
and loss of mineral matter and some extractives. The loss of 
water concentrates the nutrients, and thus renders cooked 
meat proportionally more nutritious than raw Ttifta.\„ 



142 ANIMAL FOODS 

Objective Paints and Methods in Cooking: 

1. To retain the juice as in bakings broiling, boiling and 
fiying. 

2. To extract the juice as in soups. 

3. To extract and retain the juice as in stews. 

The Principal Constituent of meUt to be considered in coot 
ing is the albumin. Note page 17, for albumin. 

Cooking of Meat Heat penetrates meat slowly. At a tem- 
perature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit, the meat assumes a gnj 
color^ as a result of the decomposition of the coloring mattec 
of the blood. At the same time a peculiar odor of cooking 
develops, which is due to chemical changes prodoced by tte 
heat. 

At a temperature above 104 degrees Fahrenheit, meat be- 
gins to lose weight from the separation of water, which con- 
tains salts and nitrogenous extractives. This process contin- 
ues as the temperature rises, except that coagulable proteins 
no longer separate with the water. 

Coagulation of the albumin is an important factor in cook- 
ing meat^ and the degree varies with the mode of cooking. 

As broiling is the preferred way of preparing meat for the 
sick and convalescent, it is taken up in detail in this chapter. 

Broiling. In broiling, the meat is to be cooked in its own 
juices ; it is, therefore, evident that these must be retained as 
completely as possible. At first the temperature should be 
sufl5ciently high quickly to coagulate, and even harden the 
albumin on the outside surface, so as to form a layer or pro- 
tecting coat over the whole ; then the heat should be modified 
so that the interior will be raised to a temperature that will 
cook it properly without loss of its nutritive properties. 

In broiling we partially sacrifice the outer layer of the 
meat, to preserve the inner portion. 

The time for exposure will be different for different kinds 
of meat. Beef and mutton require a shorter time than lamb, 
chicken or game. 

A piece of meat properly broiled swells, and when cut, the 



MEAT 143 

liquid portion flows out readily; but if cooked too long the 
albumin inside coagulates and the meat loses its moisture, 
Bhrinks, and becomes teugh. 

Effect of Cold and Hat Water on Meat. Cold water draws 
out the soluble albumin, the extractives and some of the salts ; 
thus in soups, broths and stews where all the nutriment pos- 
sible is desired in the liquid, the meat is first put into cold 
water and gradually brought to a higher temperature. 

Hot water or dry heat coagulates albumin, and since if 
subjected to too high a temperature this becomes tough and 
indigestible, we must note carefully the proper temperature of 
cooking. Often it is necessary to sacrifice a small amount 
of albumin by exposing the meat to a high temperature for 
a short time to form a coating on the meat, in order to re- 
tain the rest of the juices more effectively, after which the 
connective tissue can be softened by gentle simmering for 
several hours. 

The Quality of Meat depends upon the age, sex, environ- 
ment, care, feeding and time of hanging after slaughtering. 
It also depends greatly on the cuts used. 

The tougher and less expensive cuts, if properly cooked, 
are as nutritious and as easily digested as the expensive cuts; 
however, tough meats take long, slow cooking to make them 
palatable, and the fuel used must be taken into consideration 
in the expense. Tough meats are muscles which the animal 
uses the most, aa the legs (especially the lower part), neck, 
etc.; they are more highly flavored on account of the freer 
circulation of blood through these portions. Cuts from the 
neck and shin are used for sonpa and broths. 

The tenderer and more expensive cuts are from the muscles 
which the animal uses the least, as the upper portion of the 
bind quarter (rump, sirloin) and fore ribs. The circulation 
of blood through these portions is less and they are not as 
juicy and well flavored, nor any more nutritious than tougher 
portions. These tenderer cuts are used for steaks and roasts. 

The remaining muscular portions of the animal (flank, 
Bhoulder and brisket) are not aa tender as the upper portion 



L_ 



^— — ^ ^ 



-i- ..j.J-^ rL'UD^ 



"1 :le i.z : ri^rrfr. : :: ;:st is riirridcns. They need longer 
.■''.•iizj izi. irf li^i ::r rf-v?. ":riisizg and poc roast. 

-' • - :." /-.TV ." J^' r..:l '^.^c^rz -xd as food are the 
\\..iT'. Tz^'ii. j'l.z. iiiz-f"?. l:~-rr. razcreas. rhviiiiis glands 
.;-.: 7.:.:z..:. ^:^ :^-i f-rzi-f irf is rasilj 'iigested as most 
:-:>/f ■-55:--. :.■ .- -..-f z;: is z'lTriric^LS, and most of them 

TV: ■;.:.::-. ..-.' izl >:lzr". V-en rr-rperlj cooked, are 
~:: .1? :M5 . - .: ^■:?:.- : is ::l:-f7 zi-firi. :z acccnnr of their close 
.11". ".::'" :;:t":";. izi ?_:: — « :•= i'lZiz. cz-j cj mose ot good 

v.- -"vj-if -.5 z;: -f— fisil- iiresTfd. f:?r alrliou^h the 

^ - ... : ., _ . . >■ j_ . ^ ". J, : |~».r -jr;.'^ •.■> rc:-;!-,^ i^ims^ 



.resTfd cf mears, but a 
f 'rccT. I: is nor suited 



^.■»j 



: :^r :s and called trine. 
rfSTfd. z^z contains too 

:: :l:e :ili or Iamb are 

. ^--=7 A-*? most easilv 

X::f jhirtfr on Sweer- 

: m:?": V2.zac.e kind of 
:i~;7. izl c-:n:r»arat:ve!v 



• = .: me gained in 
iz.: zron exiH.^szre 
■a:fd ^i'ji fat. and 






• *i. 



• " • • ' ■m 

'•::..' ". .1 j-'STirn ard 

' r z.i •'.".z^ rr"'tz. li 

.;■> i .:.:?:::z. I: con- 



MEAT 145 

tains less albuminous BubstanceB, and more gelatin than 
beef. 

Test for Good Veal. It ghould be of a pinkiah color, with 
clear, firm, white fat, fine grained and tender. The ent most 
nsed for broth and soup la the lower part of the leg known 
ae the knuckle. 

Mutton. Next to beef, mutton is considered the most 
nutritious of meats, and by some considered as easily digested ; 
but it is known that fat of mutton, which consists largely of 
stearin, is not as easily digested. 

The best quality of mutton comes from a sheep from three 
to five years old; after killing it should be allowed to hang 
to ripen and to develop the flavor. 

Test for Good Mutton. The flesh is fine grained, bright 
pink in color, the fat ia white, hard and flaky, and the akin 
i.'omes off easily. The hones of mutton are white and smooth 
and round at fhe Joints. 

Lamh. Lamb of the right age is as nutritious aa beef or 
mutton but the fleah is milder in flavor. 

Lamb is sold aa " spring lamb " when killed at sis weeks to 
three months old. It is very expensive and comes into the 
market early in fhe year — February and March, Lamb is 
usually killed when a year old, and should be sold imme- 
diately after killing; in this respect it differs from beef and 
mutton, which should hang after killing to ripen and develop 
the flavor. 

Test for Lamb. Lamb can be distinguished from mutton 
by the pinkish color of the bone, and the serrated joints. 

Fork. The flesh of the pig ia the most indigestible of 
all meats on account of the large percentage of fat which it 
contains, consequently it is not used in cookery for the sick. 
except sometimes a small amount of ham, salt pork or bacon, 
8S the salty taste occasionally acts as a stimulant to the lost 
appetite of the convalescent. Ham and bacon are more easily 
digested than other cuta of pork, and when thin strips of 
bacon are cooked crisp they are easily digested. Bacon is 
from the dank of pork and is salted and smoked. Next to 



L 



146 



ANIMAL FOODS 



butter and cream, bacon fat is the most easily assimilated of 
ordinary food fats. 

Cnts of Meat. ^ The methods of cutting sides of beef^ veal, 
mutton, and pork into parts, and the terms used for the differ- 
ent ^^cuts/^ as these parts are commonly called, vary in 
different localities. The diagrams show the positions of the 
different cuts, both in the live animal and in the dressed car- 
cass, as found in the markets. The lines of division between 
the different cuts will vary slightly, according to the usage of 
the local market, even where the general method of cutting 
is as here indicated. The names of the same cuts likewise 
vary in different parts of the coimtry. 

Cuts of Beef 





Fig. 6 



Fie. 5. — Diagrams of cuts of beef: 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 8, ribs; t, iliovl- 
derclod; 5, fore-shank; 6, brisket; 7, cross-ribs; 8, plate; 9, narel; 10, 
loin; 11, flank; 12, rump; 13, round; 14, second-cut round; 15, hind-shank. 
— (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Ststioni. 
United States Department of Agriculture.) Send for Bulletin for cuts of 
Veal and Pork. 

^ This section is quoted from Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Ofles 
of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture* WMhiag- 
ton. D. 0. 



MEAT 147 

The general method or cutting np a side of beef is illus- 
trated in Fig. 5, which shows the relative position of the cuts 
in the animal and in a dressed side. The neck piece is fre- 
quently cut BO as to include more of the chuck than is repre- 
sented by the diagrams. The ehoulder-elod is usually cut 
without bone, while the shoulder (not included in diagram) 
would include more or leas of the shoulder blade and of the 
upper end of the fore-shank. Shoulder steak is cut from the 
chuck. In many localities the plate is made to include all 
the parts of the fore-quarter designated on the diagrams as 
brisket, cross-ribs, plate, and navel, and different portions of 
the plate, as tlius cut, are spoken of as the " brisket end of 
plate " and " navel end of plate." This part of the animal is 
largely used for corning. The ribs are frequently divided 
into first, second, and third cuts, the latter lying nearest the 
chuck and being slightly less desirable than the former. The 
chuck is sometimes sub-divided in a similar manner, the third 
cut of the chuck being nearest the neck. The names applied 
to different portions of the loin vary considerably in different 
localities. The part nearest the ribs is frequently called 
" email end of loin " or " short steak." The other end of the 
loin is called " hip sirloin " or " sirloin." Between the short 
steak and the sirloin is a portion quite generally called the 
" tenderloin,'' for the reason that the real tenderloin, the 
very tender strip of meat lying inside the loin, is found most 
fully developed in this cut Porterhouse steak is a term most 
frequently applied either to the short steak or the tenderloin. 
It is not uncommon to find the flank cut so as to include more 
sf the loin than is indicated in the figures, in which case the 
upper portion is called " flank steak." The larger part of the 
flank is, however, very frequently corned, as is also the case 
with the rump. In some markets the rump is cut so as to 
include a portion of the loin, which is then sold as " rump 
steak." The portion of the round on the inside of the leg 
is regarded as more tender than that on the outside, and is 
frequently preferred to the latter. As the leg lies upon the 
butcher's table, this inside of the round is usually on the 



148 



ANIMAL FOODS 



upper or top side, and is therefore called " top round/' Occa- 
sionally the plate is called the " rattle/' 



Cuts of Lamb and Xutton 




Fig. 7 

Fig. 7. — Diagrams of cuts of Iamb and mutton: 1, Ne<}k; 2. chuck; 8^ 
shoulder; 4, flank; 5, loin; 6, leg. — (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28; 
Office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agrieoltnre.) 

Fig. 7 shows the relative position of the cuts in a dressed 
side of mutton or lamb and in a live animal. The cuts in a 
side of lamb and mutton number but six, three in each quar- 
ter. The chuck includes the ribs as far as the end of the 
shoulder blades, beyond "which comes the loin. The flank is 
made to include all the under side of the animal. Some 
butchers, however, make a large number of cuts in the fore- 
quarter, including a portion of the cuts marked " loin " and 
" chuck " in Fig. 7, to make a cut designated as " rib/^ and 
a portion of the "flank" and "shoulder" to make a cut 
designated as "brisket." The term "chops" is ordinarily 
used to designate portions of either the loin, ribs, chuck or 
slioulder, which are either cut or " chopped " by the butcher 
into pieces suitable for frying or boiling. The chuck and ribs 
are sometimes called the " rack." 



MEAT lid 

£HEnQY TAITTE OF HEAT 
See Table, under names of meat, as Beef — Mutton — 
Lamb — Baeon — Ham, etc. 

See Table, page 63, for energy value of other ingredients. 

TO BEOIX STEAE 

Wipe, trim off the superfluoua fat and remove a little of 
the bone. Save the flank ends for broiled meat cakes. Heat 
and grease the broiler with some of the fat. Place meat in 
broiler with fat edge next to handle and broil over a clear 
fire, turning every ten seconds for the first minute, holding 
Kroiler near the coals that the surface may he well seared, 
thus preventing escape of juices ; then cook at lower tempera- 
iiire, holding the broiler higher. 

Steak cut one inch thick will take iive minutes if liked 
jare, and eight minutes if well done; one and one-half inch 
thick, eight to ten minutes. Serve on a hot platter and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper, or with Maltre d'Hotel But- 
ler. 

Note. — Steak should be cut at least one inch thick; many 
prefer it much thicker. The most tender steaks are tender- 
loin, sirloin and cross-cut of rump. Sirloin, porterhouse (a 
thick slice of sirloin with tenderloin attached), cross-cut of 
the rump and top of the round are all good steaks. The top 
of round is solid meat and a cheap steak; is tender if cut 
from animal of right age and is the second or third cut from 
top of round, 

Ua!tEE S'hStEL butter, 443 CALORIES 

y cup 'biitter. 1 tablespoon chopped paraley. 

>/, teaspoon salt. I tablespoon lemon juice. 

lii teaspoon. 

Rub the butter to a cream; add salt, pepper, parsley and 
lemon juice. Spread on hot beefsteak. 

TAIT-BROILED BEEF CAKES 

Use steak from upper part of round, and with a small piece 

of suet put all through a meat chopper; without seasoning. 



L 



150 ANIMAL FOODS 

shape into small, flat, circular cakes. Into saut^ pan put a 
little beef fat, when smoking hot, put in the cakes and cook 
a few moments on each side and turn; it will take about five 
minutes to cook them. Season well with salt, pepper and 
butter, and serve on hot platter. Do not add salt before cook- 
ing, as it toughens the meat. 

SCBAPED BEEF 

See " Beef Preparations '' for recipe. Page 217. 

UTTTTON CHOPS BBOILEDi 

Cut away the tough outside skin, trim off a part of the 
fat. Broil same as steak — that is, close to the glowing coals 
— for about one minute, turning every ten seconds, then cook 
at a lower temperature, holding the broiler higher. Will take 
four or six minutes for a chop one inch thick. Mutton, like 
beef, should be served rare. Season chops with salt and 
pepper, but not with butter, as the meat is rich and fat and 
does not require it. 

LAUB CHOPS BBOILEDI 

Prepare and broil same as for mutton chops, except that 
they are to be well done instead of rare, to accomplish this 
about three minutes longer cooking will be required; for a 
chop one inch thick, from eight to ten minutes, 

PBENCH CHOPS i 

Trim a chop until there is nothing left but the round 
muscle at the thick end, with a little fat about it. Cut away 
all the meat from the bone, which will then look like a handle 
with a meat morsel at one end. Broil, and serve on hot 
platter with paper handles on chops, and garnished with pars- 
ley and peas. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS i 

Chops are fairly good pan-broiled. The same principle is 
to be followed as in the cooking over coals — that is, a high 
degree of heat at first, to sear the outside before the juice 

^Chopt ayerage 800 Cal. per 100 gms. 



MEAT 151 

escapes, and a lower temperature afterward^— therefore, heat 
the saute pan or spider exceediDgly hot (use no fat), drop in 
the chop, count ten and turn, repeating for about one minute, 
then draw the pan to the baelt or side of the etoTe and finish 
cooking slowly. A chop one inch thick wilt be perfectly done 
in from five to seven minutes. If the pan ia hot enough at. 
first there will he no loss of juice or flavor. >Season and serve 
in the same manner as broiled «hops. 

CHOPS (OH BIKDS) BSOILED IN FATEB > 

Prepare a chop as for pan-broiling. Spread a piece of 
paper evenly and thickly with butter. Lay on it a nicely 
trimmed chop and double the paper with edges together. 
Fold and crease the edges on the three sides, then fold and 
crease again, bo that the butter cannot run out. These folds 
should be half-an-inch wide. It will be necessary to hare 
the sheet of paper — foolscap or heavy white paper — consid- 
erably more than twice as large as the chop. Broil over coals, 
not too near, turning often so that the temperature will not 
get so high as to ignite the paper. A chop broiled in this way 
is basted in the butter and in its own juices, and is very deli- 
cate, A chop three-quarters of an inch thick will cook in five 
minutes; one an inch thick, in eight. 

Should the paper ignite, it need not destroy the chop. 
Take it out and put into a fresh paper and try again. The 
chop should be served hot, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Note. — Birds may be broiled in the same way. 

BKDILEI) BACON 
Cut bacon in as thin slices as possible, and remove rind. 
Put in broiler, placing broiler OTer baking pan, and cook in 
hot oven until crisp. 

CTTRLES BACON 
Heat saut6 pan very hot. Put in strips of very thin sliced 
bacon. As fat is drawn out, pour it off into cup; cook bacon 
nntil crisp and brown. Drain on brown paper. 

> Chopi ■Ttrais 300 CiL per 100 nos. 









^:x , i 






« •■_■ 



--=■'- i s^:^^z «h 



POULTRY AND GAME 153 

Game is comparatively easy of digestion but too highly 
flavored for most invalids. The cuts from the breast are 
the best for an invalid. 

Test for Selecting a Chicken. The cartilage at the end of 
tlie breast bone must be soft and pliable, the skin smooth 
and the feet soft. Chickens are used for broiling and roast- 
ing. 

Test for Selecting a Fowl. The cartilage at the end of the 
breast bone is firm, the feet are hard and drj-. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broths. One from one to two years is 
best for roasting, or where the meat substance is desired. The 
proportion of bone to meat in chicken under tliis age makes 
them expensive eating. 

Principles of Cooking. In general same as for cooking of 
other meats. 

When the layer of meat over the bones is very thin, as in 
young chickens or squabs, broiling is preferable to roasting. 

An old fowl can sometimes be made tender without having 
all its flavor stewed into the broth, by cooking in a small 
amount of water in a double boiler for a long time, or in a 
fireless cooker. 

A general rule for roasting chickens or turkeys is twenty 
minutes to the pound. Ducks and geese, having tougher 
fibers, require a longer time for thorough cooking. 

qehskal bttle fok cleahhtq fotiltat 

Cut off head and feet and pnll out pin feathers. If the 
bird has not been drawn, make an incision below the breast 
jnst large enough to admit the hand (or finger for the small 
birds). With the hand or finger, draw all the entrails out at 
one time. Care must be taken not to break them, especially 
the gall-bladder. Turn down the skin of the neck, cut off 
neck close to body and pull out wind pipe and crop. Cut 
oat the oil bag. Cut through skin of the leg a little below the 
joint (not cutting the tendons), press against table and break 
and putl off foot with tendons, which will come out in break- 



154 ANIMAL FOODS 

ing if chicken is young. In fowls you may have to pull them 
out separately with skewer. Singe the bird by holding it 
over a tablespoon of burning alcohol^ or paper (holding over 
sink). Wash by allowing the cold water to run through and 
over it, and dry well inside and out and prepare further for 
broiling or roasting, etc. 

DRY DRESSING FOR STXTFrnTG, 1100 CALORIES 

ll^ cup stale bread crumbs. Powdered sage, marjoram, and 

% cup butter (not melted). summer savory. 

Salt, pepper. 

Thoroughly mix ingredients and season to taste. Fill in 
both openings of bird and sew the skin at both ends^ and turn 
the skin of neck over, and fasten to back. Oysters can be 
added to dressing if desired, omitting all seasonings but the 
salt and pepper. 

TO TRUSS POTTLTRY 

After stuffing and sewing up the openings^ draws the thighs 
close to body and secure in place by putting a skewer through 
them and the body. Fold wings under back by taking end 
of wing and place in under back which fastens it. Gross the 
drum-sticks and tie with long string and fasten to the tail^ 
and tie string so that it will hold thighs close to the body. 
Cut and remove string before serving the bird. 

ROAST POULTRY 

100 grams =: about 200 Calories.^ 

Clean, stuff and truss bird and place it on its back on 
rack in dripping pan. Bub surface with salt and a butter and 
flour mixture (mix three tablespoons of butter and two table- 
spoons of flour and stir until creamy). Dredge bottom of 
pan with flour. Place in hot oven and in about ten minutes 
the flour should be well browned, then reduce heat of oven and 
cook more slowly. Baste every ten minutes with one-fourth 
cup of butter melted in three-fourths cup of water, after this 

* Edible portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 155 

has been exhausted use fat in pan. Turn bird often while 
cooking that it may brown evenly. When cooked, remove to 
hot platter and make the gravy. 

A chicken four to five pounds wil! require about one and 
one-half to two hours for cooking. Turkey, nine pounds, two 
and one-half to three hours. Ducks {domestic), one to one 
and one-half hours. Duck (wild), twenty-five to thirty min- 
utes. Goose, nine pounds, two to two hours and one-half. 

QEAVY rOE ROAST FOITLTET 

Clean the heart, liver and gizzard hy removing the mem- 
brane, blood veBsels and clotted blood from the heart. Cut 
liver from the gall bladder and remove all green on liver. 
Clean gizzard and cut through edge carefully to sac, and re- 
move carefully not to break it, wash giblets (that is, the 
heart, liver, gizzard) and the neck and put on to cook in two 
and one-half cups of cold water, cook slowly at the simmering 
point until tender. 

After chicken has been removed from pan, pour off all the 
fat, strain and return to pan four tablespoons of fat and add 
four tablespoons of flour, brown together thoroughly, and add 
gradually the water the giblets were cooked in. Cook five 
minutes, stirring constantly, add hot water if gravy is too 
thick, and salt and pepper to taste, and the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

TO BOBE BIESS 

Select bird that is fresh -killed, dry-picked, and not drawn. 
Cut off head and feet, singe and remove pin feathers, crop, and 
oil bag. Cut off wings close to body. Lay on board breast 
down and cut to bone the entire length of spine. Scrape the 
flesh from backbone the entire length of body, working toward 
the breast, cutting the tendinous portions as reached. When 
edge of breastbone is reached, care must be taken not to break 
through skin. Scrape flesh from second joint and drum- 
sticks, laying flesh back and pulling out bone (as if turning 
glove off inside out). 

Scrape flesh from lower part of back and withdraw from 



156 ANIMAL FOODS 

carcass. Put flesh in original shape and broil, following 
directions for broiled quail; or stuff bird with stale bread 
crumbs and tie in shape with string and bake in hot oveiL 
When cooked, remove bread and tie in shape with a bit of 
white baby ribbon and garnish with parsley and lemon. 

BROILED QUAIL 

100 grams = 160 Calories. 

Clean, cut off the head and feet, singe, and wipe with a 
damp cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife split the quail down 
the back, beginning at back of neck and cutting through the 
backbone the entire length of bird. Lay bird open and re- 
move contents. Cut through tendons at joints. Wipe thor- 
oughly. Season with salt and pepper, rub thickly with soft- 
ened butter and dredge with flour. Broil ten minutes over 
clear coals. Serve on hot buttered toast. Qarnish with toast 
points, parsley and currant jelly. 

BROILED SaiTABS 

100 grams = 390 Calories. 

Prepare, cook and serve the same as quail. 

BROILED SKALL BIBDS 

All small birds can be broiled according to the directions 
for quail, remembering that for very small ones it takes a very 
bright fire, as the birds should only be browned and the time 
required for cooking is brief. 

BIBDS BROILED IN PAPER 

See chapter on Meats and follow directions for "Chope 
Broiled in Paper." Page 151. 

BROILED CHICKEN 

100 grams =3 108 Calories.i 

Dress for broiling, following directions given under Broiled 
Quail. SoaHoij well with salt and pepper, and rub all over 
with softened butter, especially breast and legs. Put in a 
well-greased broiler and broil over a clear fire about fifteen 

^ Edible portion. 



r 



POULTRY AND GAME 157 

minutes, turning often. The flesh side must be exposed to 
the fire the greater part of the time as the skin side bums 
easily. When chicken is nicely browned, place in a dripping- 
pan, skin side down, in a moderate oven twelve minutes. Put 
on a hot dish, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve 
immediately. 

Thia rule is for a chicken weighing ahout two and a half 
pounds, yielding 725 calories. 

CBEAUED CHICKEN, 210 CALOBIES ' 

( iDdividual Rule.) 
% cnp cold cooked chicken. % lablespoon butter. 



Melt bntter in saucepan, add flour and pour on gradually 
the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly. Add chicken cut into 
dice, and seasonings. Heat well and serve on toast rounds, 
garnished with toast points and parsley; or use as a filling 
for Swedish timbales. 

Note. — Chicken may be used that is removed from chicken 
broth when it is tender. Chicken broth may replace part of 
the milk in making the sauce. 

SCAXLOPEO CHICEEir 

Put creamed chicken into a small baking dish, cover with 
dried bread or cracker crumbs, dot with small pieces of but- 
ter, and brown in oven. 

JELLIES CHICKEN, 100 CALOSIES ^ 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin, yi eup chopped chicken. 

2 tablespoons c«Id water. Salt, celery salt. 
S tablespoona strong chicken 

broth. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water five minutes, and add the 
boiling hot broth, stir until dissolved. Season to taste. Dip 




158 ANIMAL FOODS 

mold into cold water and pour in enon^ gelatin to cover 
bottom^ put in ice box to harden, when firm decorate with t 
slice of hard-cooked egg; or cook a couple slices of carrots 
and cut a small round from one slice to form the center of 
a daisy and cut the other slice into strips to represent the 
petals and put in bottom of mold, add a few drops of 
gelatin to keep the decoration in place, and put on ice to 
harden. Mix the chicken with remainder of gelatip and poor 
into mold and set to harden. Serve on leaf of lettuce or 
garnish with parsley. 

LABDED GBOTTSS 

Clean and wash the grouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Run a small skewer through the legs and tail. Tie firmly 
with twine. Dredge with salt, rub the breast with softened 
butter, then dredge with flour. Put into a quick oven. K 
desired rare, cook twenty minutes; if well done, thirty min- 
utes. Serve on hot platter garnished with parsley and Bread 
Sauce. 

LABDED aTTAIL 

100 grams = 160 Calories. 

The directions for cooking and serving are the same as for 
grouse, except that quail cook in fifteen minutes. Larding 
gives richness to dry meat that does not have fat enough of 
its own. 

BBEAD SAUCE FOB GAHE, 540 CAL0BIE8 

Crumbs 
l^ cup coarse dried bread crumbs. % smaU onion. 
^ tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Sauce 
1 cup milk. Salt. 

Va cup fiJie bread crumbs. Pepper, 

Prepare Crumbs. Dry in a warm oven; sift. Cook the 
coarse bread crumbs in the butter until a delicate brown, and 
use to cover breast of bird. 

Prepare Sauce. Put the fine bread crumbs, milk and 



FISH 



169 



onion on to scald ten minutes^ then skim out the onion^ add 
the butter and seasonings and serve as a gravy for birds. 

FISH 

Pish is one of the important protein foods. The term is 
usually applied to all kinds of water animals used for food. 
They may be classified as follows : 



Classes 



1. Scaly or Vertebrate, 



» 

White or lean, e. g. 



Dark or oily, e. g. 



r Halibut 
Haddock 
Flounder 
Turbot 
White Fish 
Smelt 
Cod 

r Salmon 
Mackerel 
Blue Fish 
Shad 
Herring 
Eel 



12. Shell-fish 



MoUusks, e. g. 



Crustaceans, e. g. 



rOysters 
I^Clams 



Crabs 
Lobsters 
Shrimps 
Turtles 
^Terrapin 



In the white-fleshed flsh the fat is found principally in 
the liver. This is the only class usually considered in the 
cookery for the sick. 

In the dark-fleshed fish the fat is found distributed through- 
out the body. A considerable amount of the protein of fish 
is in the form of gelatin. Fish is less rich in extractives^ and 
hence less stimulating than meat. 

Digestibility. The digestibility of scaly fish depends upon 
the quantity of fat present and the coarseness of the fiber. 



160 ANIMAL FOODS 

The white-fleshed fish are less nutritious and stimulating than 
the dark-fleshed fish as they contain less fat and extractives 
and more water. They are consequently more easily digested. 
With the exception of cod, white fish is useful for a con- 
valescent diet, for those of sedentary habits, for children, 
and others for whom the extractives of meat are less desir- 
able. 

Oily fish should not be eaten by those of weak digestion 
or given to the sick. In some cases they may be served dur- 
ing advanced convalescence. 

Salt fish is not as easily digested as fresh fish, as the fibers 
are apt to be hardened in the process of salting. Salt codfish 
is an exception, for if finely divided and served in an ap- 
petizing manner it is a valuable and inexpensive form of 
protein food. As a rule, dried, smoked or pickled fish should 
not be given to the sick. 

By some persons, fish cannot be eaten without causing in- 
digestion or biliousness. The fat sometimes disagrees, caus- 
ing acidity and eructations of the stomach. 

Composition. In composition fish is similar to meat, con- 
taining proteins, extractives, fats, salts and water. As a rule, 
fish contains more water and less fat than meat, therefore it 
is more easily digested; and it is due to this, its easy digesti- 
bility, tliat white fish by some is considered a brain food, and 
not, as is popularly supposed, to the amount of phosphorus it 
contains; in fact, fish does not contain as much phosphorus 
as some meat. Fish contains less extractives than meat and 
it is due to this that people tire more quickly of it than of 
meat. 

Ijemon juice and vinegar are desirable condiments to serve 
with fish. The acid is a desirable neutralizing agency, as 
the juice of fish, especially shellfish, is of an alkaline 
nature. 

Nutritive Value, The chief nutritive constituents of fish, 
as of meat, are their proteins and fats. Their energy value 
depends largely on the amount of fat thoy contain 



r 



FISR IGl 



When Fish are in Season. Halibut, haddock, flounder and 
cod are in season all the year. 

Turbot, October to May; shadj February to May; salmon. 
May to September; blue flsh and mackerel, May to October; 
sturgeon, April to September; trout (lake), April to August. 

Test for Freshness. In freali fish the gilla are red, the eyes 
bright and protruding, the flesh is firm and there is no un- 
pleasant odor. The first two testa disappear after the fiah 
has been out of water a short time, and although the flavor of 
the fish 13 not as good, it is not spoiled. But if the last two 
tests are not present the fish should not be used. Great care 
should be taken that fish ia perfectly fresh, in season, and 
thoroughly cooked, or it will be indigestible and aometimeB 
poisonous. Unless these conditions are known to exist, fish 
should not be served to the aick. 

" In many European cities fiah are sold alive, the customer 
selecting his fish as it swims in a tank. It would seem that 
this excellent method might be used in our cities, especially 
those situated on the seaboard, at least for customers who are 
fastidious and who are willing to pay an extra price for 
a special article when it is warranted." (Farmer's Bulletin 
No. 375.) 

Principles to be Observed in CooMng Fish. As in meat, 
albumin is the principal constituent to be considered in the 
cooking of fish. Hence the same principles which apply to 
the cooking of meat apply also to the cooking of fish. 

See page 17, for effect of heat on albumin. 

Objective Points and Methods.' 

To Retain the Juice. — Baking, Broiling, Boiling and Fry- 
ing. 

To Extract the Juice. — Soup. 

To Extract and Retain the Juice. — Chowder. 

ENEROT TAini: OF FISH 

Sec Table, under names of fisli, as Halibut, Salmon, etc. 
See Table, page 53, for energy value of other ingredients. 



162 ANIMAL FOODS 

BEOnSD FUU. 

White &A, trout, small bine fish, mackerel, shad and small 
cod should be split down the back, and broiled whole, and if 
preferred, cut off the head and taiL Halibut and sahnon 
should be cut into inch slices and turned often while broil- 
ing. 

Clean Fish, Wipe with a cloth wet in salt-water, and dry 
on a fish towel. Season ; oily fish need only salt and pepper, 
but dry white fish should be spread with butter and salt and 
pepper before broiling. Use a double wire broiler greased 
well with salt pork rind. Put thickest edge of fish next 
middle of broiler, turn often while broiling; with split fish 
sear the flesh side first and then turn. 

The time of cooking will vary with the thickness of fish. 
Fish is done when fiesh separates easily from the bone. 

The fire should be hot and clear. When ready to serve, 
loosen the fish from broiler on each side. Open broiler, slide 
fish onto platter, having fiesh side uppermost. Spread with 
butter, salt and pepper. Garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. Or serve with Butter Cream and a border of potato 
balls. 

Note *' Fish Sauces '' for Butter Cream. 

BAKED FISH 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet in salted water, dry on a 
fish towel and bake on a greased fish sheet, placed in a drip- 
ping pan, A strip of cotton cloth, by which it may be lifted 
from the pan, may be substituted for the fish sheet. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, brush over with melted butter, dredge 
with flour, and place around fish small pieces of fat salt pork. 
Hiike in hot oven until fish separates from bone when lifted 
with fork. Baste every ten minutes. Serve plain with 
UHtltod butter, or with Egg Sauce. 

Note " Fish Sauces " for Egg Sauce. 



FISH 163 

HAUBTTT A LA CBEOLE, 413 CALORIES 
y^ pouod halibut. I clove. 

Va cup tomafoea. *4 teaspoon sugar, 

^ cup water. ^ tablespoon butter. 

Small piece onion. ^ tablespoon flour. 

Sprig parsley. Salt and pepper. 

Tomato Sauce. Blend tomatoes, water, onion, parsley, 
clove and sugar, and cook ten minutea. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
hot mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste, cook five minutes 
and strain. 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet with cold salted water 
and dry thoroughly. Put in baking tin, pour around half 
the sauce and bake until fish separates easily from bone, 
basting often. Serve on hot platter, pour around it the re- 
mainder of the sauce and garnish with parsley, 
CHEAUED FISH 
(Individual Rule.) 
^ eup cooked fish, remove skin ^ cup cream or white sauce 
and bone, and flake the flesh (note Fish Sauces), 
with a fork; season with salt, 
pepper, and a tittle lemon 
juice. 

Blend the fish and white sauce, reheat and serve on toast, 
garnish with parsley and half-slice of lemon; or serve in 
bread cases made of slices of bread cut two inches thick, 
round off edges, scoop out center, leaving case, brush with 
softened butter and brown in oven. 

Note, — White sauce may be poured on one egg yolk before 
adding fish. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

Put creamed fish into small baking dish, cover wifh dried 
bread or cracker crumbs; dot with bits of butter and brown 
in oven. 

CBEAHED COSFISK, S28 CAIOBrES 

Flake salt codfish in small pieces, remove the bone ; the fish 
should be pat info several cold waters to remove some of the 



164 ANIMAL FOODS 

salt. Prepare the potatoes, cutting them into eighths, or it 
small into fourths, add the shredded fish and boiling water 
to cover; cook until potatoes are tender, drain oflf the water 
|(saving it for the sauce), add a little butter and season witii 
pepper, and mash lightly and heap in center of platter. 

Sauce 

1 pint fish and potato water. 4 tablespoons flour. 
4 tablespoons butter. Pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
potato water. Cook thoroughly, season with pepper, and 
pour about the codfish, and garnish with slices of hard-cooked 
egg and parsley. 

CREAMED CODFISH, 314 CALORIES 

14 cup flaked codfish. ^ teaspoon gluten flour. 

1 cup milk or cream. Yolk 1 egg. 

1/^ teaspoon butter. Pepper. 

Soak the fish in two waters ; melt the butter, add the flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded n9i4b;cook thoroughly, add 
codfish and Qgg, cook five minutes, season and serve on gluten 
toast or fresh bread. 

CREAMED FISH, 208 CALORIES 

% cup cooked fish. % cup cream sauce. 

Salt, pepper, lemon juice. Gluten bread crun^bs. 

Season fish with salt, pepper and lemon juice, add cream 
sauce, put into ramikins or cups, sprinkle with gluten 
crumbs, and bake. 

BAKED FISH, 4S0 CALORIES 

For baked fish make a dressing with one cup of gluten 
bread crumbs, one-half an onion, chopped fine; one table- 
spoon celery, chopped fine, one tablespoon of butter; pepper, 
salt, lemon juice and parsley. 

FISH 

Fish should be rubbed with salt and pepper and dipped in 
gluten flour, or rolled in egg and gluten cracker crumbs. 
Saute (or fry) in oil or butter. 



PFISH SAUCES lis I 

PISH SAUCES ■ 

BiniER CEEAU * 

Cream a little butter; season with aalt, cayenne, lemon 
juice (speck salt and pepper, one-half teaspoon lemon juice). 
Add finely minced parsley or chopped pickle, such as cucum- 
ber or olive. Prepare quantity according to size of fish. Put 
it on the fiah, and place in oven a moment until butter is 
melted. 



CEEAU OB WHITE SAUCE, 1S5 CALOEIES 

(ludivIduaL Rule.) 
% tablespoon butter, 1/3 cup hot milk. 

'/g tablespoon flour. Salt. 

Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire, and pour on 
gradually the milk, stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling 
point, cook thoroughly and season. 

Note. — Extra milk may be added if a thinner sauce ia 
desired, using one~half cup milk. 

CEEAU SAUCE, 138 CALOBIES 
'/! "Up miik. Salt. 

1 tpaepoon Koyt'H gluten flour. Cayenne. 
1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk; cook thoroughly and season. 

EQQ BATTCE, 434 CALOBTES 
2% iableapoons butter. Speck pepper. 

IVi tablespoons flour. % cup hot water, 

% teaspoon salt. 2 egga. 

Melt one-baif the butter; add flour and seasoning and 
pour on gradually the hot water. Boil five minutes and add 
remainder of butter in small pieces. Add two hard-cooked 
eggs cut into one-fourth inch slices, or the beaten yolks may 
be added to hot sauce with one-half teaspoon lemon juice. 



i 



166 ANIMAL FOODS 

£GG SAUCE HO. n 

To Cream or White Sauce add one hard-cooked egg chopped 
fine and a little lemon juice if desired; or add to White 
Sauce, yolk slightly beaten and a few drops of lemon juice. 

TOKATO SAtrCE, 80 CALORIES 

^^ tablespoon butter. Few grains salt. 

^ tablespoon flour. Few grains pepper. 

y^ cup strained tomato juice. 

Brown butter, add flour and stir until slightly browned; 
remove from fire and pour on gradually, stirring constantly, 
the heated tomato. Cook thoroughly and add salt and pepper. 

Note. — A sprig of parsley, one clove and a small piece of 
onion may be added to tomato while heating. 

CUCTTHBEE RELISH, 15 CALORIES 

Grate one-half cucumber and add a small piece of red pep- 
per chopped fine; season with salt, pepper and vinegar and 
serve with fish. 

HOLLA]!n)AISE, 484 CALORIES 

1 egg yolk. % teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons butter. White pepper. 

y2 tablespoon vinegar. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 

Put one tablespoon butter in top of double boiler, add the 
other ingredients. Place over hot water and stir constantly 
while butter is melting. Add second tablespoon of butter 
and stir until melted, repeat this process until all butter is 
used. As soon as the mixture begins to thicken remove from 
hot water. Vary by adding a little chopped parsley, gratec* 
horse-radish root. 

SHELL-FISH 

OYSTERS Ain) CLAMS 

Only the mollusks are considered in this book, because the 
crustaceans are not easily digested, and therefore are not suit- 
able for an invalid diet. 

Crustaceans. The most popular of the crustaceans are the 



SIIELL-FISn 167 

crab aud kibster. ITiej are highly uiitritious, but at tlie smne 
time highly indigestible. 

Oysters. Oysters are valuable food for invalids and con- 
valescents. Their nutritive value is not' high, but they are 
easily digested and possess a delicate flavor which is ac- 
ceptable to most palates. 

Composition. The composition of oysters, reckoned as 
"solids," i. e,, removed from the shell, is as follows: 88.3% 
■water, 6.1% protein, 1.4% fat, and 3.3% carbohydrate. 

The carbohydrate is in the form of glycogen, being found 
in the liver, which constitutes a large proportion of the oyster. 

Digestibility. The soft part of the oyster or clam is made 
up largely of the stomach and liver and is easily digested 
when cooked in a variety of ways — broiling, roasting, stew- 
ing, panning and steaming — hut not fried when served to 
the sick. 

The hard part of shellfish is the muscle which fastens the 
animal to the shell, and is rendered tougher by all forms of 
cooking ; therefore, when whole oysters are to he eaten, they 
are more easily digested when served raw or broiled slightly 
in the shell. They can be digested by fever patients and 
those suffering from many forms of gastric disorders. 

It is desirable in acute illness to serve only the soft part 
of the oyster, but in the later stages of convalescence the 
whole oyster can he served raw or in stew and soups, which 
are recommeuded on account of their liquid form and warmth. 

When in Season. Oysters are in season from September to 
May. During the rest of the year they are insipid and unfit 
for food. 

Principles to he CarefuUij Observed in Serving and CooTc- 
ing Oysters for the Sicl: (a) Make every effort to have the 
oyster alive when used, or as fresh as can he obtained from 
a reliable dealer. Many serious cases of illness and even 
death have been caused by eating oysters so long dead that 
poisonous Bubstances had formed in thera. Great care should 
also be taken that oj-stera are not procured from beds where 



168 ANIMAL FOODS 

the water has been contaminated in any way. '' As it is in 
general impossible to learn their origin the rule of never ea1> 
ing them in the raw state is adopted by many. The practice 
of fattening or * floating' oysters in fresh or in brackish 
water robs them of much of their fine flavor^ and since the 
most accessible supply of such water is at the outlet of 
streams^ and as such streams are frequently polluted by sew- 
age^ many persons believe that this practice should be for- 
bidden by law/* ^ 

(b) Oysters contain an albuminous substance which in- 
creases in hardness with an increase of temperature^ just as 
the albumin of an egg does. When oysters are cooked with 
reference to this albuminous substance, they are also cooked 
in the best possible manner with reference to their other con- 
stituents; therefore subject them to a low temperature, for 
a short time, bearing in mind that 160 to 180 degrees Fahren- 
heit is the cooking temperature of albumin. 

General rule is to remove the oyster from heat as soon 
as the body grows plump and the edges curl, if cooked be- 
yond this stage they are over-cooked. 

Varieties. In New York State the "Blue Points'' are 
considered the finest for serving raw. They came originally 
from Blue Point, Long Island. 

In Massachusetts the " Cove '' Oyster is considered the fin- 
est for serving raw. They come from a still water cove near 
Plymouth. 

Clams. Clams are similar in composition to the oyster 
and same general rules followed in preparing and serving. 
They are much used for food and considered a great delicacy. 
They contain a tough portion that is not used in sick-room 
cooker}^ but the clear juice, on account of its digestibility 
and stimulating properties, is invaluable in the sick room. 
Clams are in season all the year around. 

Varieties. There are two varieties, the hard and soft shell 
clams. The hard shell are known as quahaugs. The small 

> Farmer's Bulletin No. 875. 




OYSTERS 169 

or round "little neck clama" take the place of Blue Points 
to serve raw when oysters are out of seaBon, 
EITEEGT TAIUE OF 0T3IEE8 

2 oyatera ^14 CalorieH, 

100 grama oysters =50 Calories. 

1 cup (solid) oysters ^84 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredienta, 
BAW OTSTEBS 

Wash, scrub the shells well under a stream of water with 
a vegetable brush. With a hammer break the thin edges of 
the shell bo that a knife may be inserted to sever the muscle 
which holds the two parts of the shell together; when this is 
cut remove the upper half and wipe the edges free from any 
grains of sand. Then sever the muscle which joins the oyster 
to the other shell, so that it may be easily lifted out without 
the necessity of catting. Arrange six oysters on an oyster- 
plate on crushed ice, and serve with salt, black pepper and 
lemon juice. A quarter of lemon cut lengthwise may be 
placed in the center of plate, and bit of parsley. 
OYSTERS COASTED IN THE SHELL 

Wash the shelh very carefully with a brush. Put them 
in a wire broiler over glowing coals, the round aide of shell 
down 80 as to hold the juice. Cook them quickly, turning 
once or twice until the shell opens. They may also be cooked 
in a hot oven. When done remove the upper half of the shell ; 
season them quickly with salt, pepper and a tiny bit of but- 
ter and vinegar, if liked, and serve them while very hot. 

The true oyster flavor is delightfully developed by pre- 
paring in this way. They may also be served with melted 
butter, salt, pepper and lemon juice. 

TO WASH OTSTESB 

Place oysters in strainer over a bowl and pour one table- 
spoon of water over each one-half cup of oysters. Take each 
oyster up in fingers and remove any particle of shell that may 
adhere to tough muscle. 



-MLZ 



1 



170 ANIMAL FOODS 

:BAS AOAST 0T8TEES 

"Wash oysters and put in sautfi pan or chafing dish and 
gently stir with sjpoon. When bodies grow pliunp and the 
edges curl remove from heat. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little butter and serve on rounds of toast^ with eighth 
of lemon for individual dishes; or serve on platter and 
garnish with toast points, watercress and lemon. 

BEOILED OYSTEES, 320 CALOEIES 

(Individual Kule.) 

4 oysters. 4 teaspoons butter. 

l^ cup cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

Select large oysters. Wash, drain and dry between towels. 
Melt butter. Season cracker crumbs with salt and pepper. 
With silver fork lift each oyster by tough muscle, and dip 
first in butter, then in crumbs. Place on a buttered fine wire 
broiler and broil, turning often until brown and the juice be- 
gins to flow. Serve plain, garnished with parsley and a piece 
of lemon or prepare cream toast and sprinkle with fine 
chopped celery, and place the broiled oysters on top. 

CEEAHED OYSTEES, 284 CALOEIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

8 oysters. % cup rich milk or tbm cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. Salt. 

ll^ tablespoon flour. White pepper. 

Wash, drain and dry oyster between towels. Melt butter 
and remove from fire, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk. Season with salt and pepper. Cook thor- 
oughly. Add the oysters and heat until the edges curl and 
the bodies grow plump. Serve at once on rounds of toast 
and garnish with toast points and parsley or in crisped " bread 
cases.'^ See " Creamed Fish.'' 

CEEAHED OYSTEES NO. U, 340 CALOEIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup thin cream or rich milk. 1 teaspoon butter, 
i tablespoon flour. 8 oysters. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 

> Calculated with whole milk. 
^ Calculated with thin cream. 



OYSTERS 171 

Wet the flour with a little cold milk ; scald the cream, add 
the flour and cook -well. Just before serving add the drained 
oyaterB and cook until they grow plump and the edges curl; 
add the salt and butter. Serve in Swedish timbale shells, lit- 
tle scooped-out buna, or on rounds of toast. 

aCALIOFES OYSTERS, 366 CAL0EIE8 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup oysters. Salt. 

•4 cup cracker crumbs. Pepper. 

% cup stale bread crumbs. '/a tablespoon cream. 

1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon oyster liquor. 

Prepare the oysters. Stir together crumbs and melted but- 
ter. Butter a, small baking dish and sprinkle part of the 
crumbs in it. Put in half the oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of cruinba, pour over enough cream 
or oyster liquor to moisten well, add the remaining oysters, 
season, and finish with a layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a 
hot oven about ten minutes, till oysters are plump and crumbs 
browned. Serve hot. 

Never allow more than two layers as they will not cook 
evenly. A sprinkling of maee or nutmeg is considered an 
improvement by some. Sherry wine may be used in place 
of cream. 

OTSTEK SOTJF. 252 CAX0BIE3 

(Individua.1 Rule.) 
Vi cup oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup water. % tablespoon flour. 

% cup milk. Grating of mace. 

Bit of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the scalded milk; add mace and onion, and cook 
thoroughly. 

Put oysters in a strainer placed over a bowl, add water and 
carefully pick over oysters to remove particles of shell. Heat 
liquor which has drained from oysters to the boiling point, 
strain through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth and return to 



172 ANIMAL FOODS 

saucepan^ add oysters and cook until plump and edges cnrL 
Drain off liquor and add to soup. Season^ add oysters and 
serve immediately. 

OYSTEE SOUP, 107 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

One-half pint of oysters, heated in their own liquor; strain. 
Put in saucepan one-half teaspoonful butter and a scant half- 
teaspoonful gluten flour, add liquor, and, when slightly thick, 
oysters, pepper and salt. For variety, add occasionally a 
tablespoonful of cream. 

OYSTEE STEW, 205 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

y2 cup oysters. % teaspoon salt. 

% cup milk. Speck pepper. 

% tablespoon water. % tablespoon butter. 

Scald the milk. Put oysters in a strainer placed over a 
bowl, and add water. Carefully pick over oysters to remove 
particles of shell. Heat the liquor which has drained from 
the oysters to the boiling point, and strain through the finest 
strainer and cheese-cloth, return to saucepan and put in the 
oysters and simmer, but do not boil, until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl and separate. Strain the liquor 
into the scalded milk, season, add oysters and serve imme- 
diately. 

CLAMS 

ENEEGY VALVE OF CLAMS 

Yg dozen clams =40 Calories. 

3^ ounces clam bouillon = 2 Calories. 

1 quart clam bouillon =23 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS 

Serve raw on the half-shell in same manner as raw oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shelL Wash 
in several waters, scrubbing thoroughly. Put into kettle, 



CLAMS 173 

allowi^ig one-fourth cup water to one quart clams. Cover 
closely and steam until clams partially open. Care should 
be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. A 
few drops of lemon juice may be added to butter. 

CLAM BROTH 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 dozen clams. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Wash clams and scrub with a brush, changing the water 
several times. Put in saucepan, add water, cover, and cook 
until shells open. Remove clams from shell, adding liquor 
which comes from them, to liquor already in saucepan. 
Strain liquor through double thickness of cheese-cloth. Serve 
bot, cold, or frozen. 

CLAM WATEE 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Clam broth, i 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired. Serve hot, cold, or frozen. 
When necessary, serve in small quantity and repeat at short 
intervals. 

Note. — Clam broth served in the several ways (as a 
variety) is invaluable in case of weak stomach, indigestion 
and general debility. 

CLAX WATER NO. H, 17 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup Clam Broth.i Pepper. 

1 tablespoon milk. % teaspoon butter. 

y^ cup hot water. 

Blend the clam broth, milk and hot water, season with 
pepper and add the butter. Serve hot. 

Note. — The pepper and butter may be omitted when neces- 
sary. 

1 Clam broth ready for use, is put up in bottles and caUed Burnham's Clam 
Bouillon. 



174 ANIMAL FOODS 

CLAM. STEW, 250 CALOKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup clam broth.i % teaspoon salt. 

V2 cup scalded milk. Spedk pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter. Soft part of 1 dozen clams. 

Yz tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter, add flour, add gradually the scalded milk and 
clam broth, and cook thoroughly. Season, add clams and 
serve hot. 

CLAM SOTTP, 276 CAXOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz dozen clams. Y2 tablespoon butter. 

% cup cold water. Y2 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper. 

Wash and scrub clams and put in kettle with cold water. 
Cook until shells open. Take from shell and cut oflE the 
tough parts ; save the soft parts for the soup and keep warm. 
Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot milk. Cook thoroughly; add soft parts 
of clams and juice, season with salt and pepper, and serve 
immediately and hot. 

CLAM BOUILLON, 45 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup cold water. Salt. 

V2 cup clam Broth.i Pepper. 

% cup scalding milk. Celery sauce. 

Y2 teaspoon butter. White of egg or whipped cream. 

Blend the water and clam broth, heat to the boiling point, 
then add the scalding milk, the butter, and stir well ; season 
with salt, pepper and celery sauce to taste. A small quan- 
tity of cracker crumbs may be added to thicken it. Serve in 
heated bouillon cups and garnish with two teaspoons of 
whipped cream or well-beaten white of egg, 

1 ClanY broth ready for use, is put up in bottles and called Bumham*! Clam 
Bouillon. 



E0G8 175 

GLAM BOUILLON BISaVE, 355 CAL0BIE8 

(Two Servings.) 

% tablespoon butter. ^^ tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 cup boiling water. 

14 tablespoon chopped carrot. Yolk 1 Qgg, 

1 cup clam broth. l^ cup cream. 

Melt the butter, add the finely chopped onion and carrot, 
cover and cook until the onion and carrot are tender, stirring 
it occasionally. Add the flour, blending well; then pour on 
gradually the boiling water and the clam broth. Cook five 
minutes, strain and return to saucepan. Mix the yolk of Qgg 
with the cream, and add it slowly to the Bisque. Pour into 
heated bouillon cups, and serve with small oyster crackers. 

ALBTJUnnZED CLAH WATEE 

See " Albuminized Beverages '^ for recipe. Page 123. 

CLAH BROTH NO. H 

See ** Meat Broth and Jellies '^ for recipe. Page 220. 

CLAM BROTH ON TOAST 

See ** Toast '' for recipe. Page 258. 

CLAM PRAPPE 

See " Ices '* for recipe. Page 313. 

CLAH SHERBET 

See " Sherbets '' for recipe. Page 312. 

Many kinds of eggs are eaten, but hens' eggs are the only 
ones necessary of consideration as a staple article of diet. 
The shell constitutes about 1.1 per cent of the weight of the 
whole eggy the yolk 32 per cent., and the white 57 per cent. 

Composition, Eggs contain protein, fat, mineral matter 
and water. The composition of the hen's Qgg is as follows : 

1 For farther information, note " Eggs and Their Uses as Food," Farm- 
er*! Bulletin No. 128. U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington. D. C. 



176 



ANIMAL FOODS 



Whole egg as purchased. 
Whole egg edible portion. 

White 

Yolk 



Refuse Water Protein Fat Ash 

.11.2% 65.5% 11.9% 9.8% 0.9% 

73.7% 18.4% 10.5% 1.0* 

86.2% 12.8% 0.2% 0.6< 

49.5% 15.7% 88.8% 1.1< 






From this table it may be seen that the white of egg 
sists of eight-tenths water, the remaining portion being 
eipally protein (albumin), with a little mineral matt^^ 
the yolk is about half water, one-third fat, and nearly 
sixth protein, with almost twice as much mineral matter^ 
the white. 

Varieties. By eggs the product of the domestic fowl' 
commonly meant. The eggs of the duck, goose, turkey, 
are edible, but are hardly suited for the sick, because of 
stronger flavor. The color of the shell is due to a pigment i 
has no connection with the composition of the egg. 
things being equal, the edible portions of brown-shelled 
white-shelled eggs have the same food value. 

Digestibility. Eggs are easily digested and very thoroi 
absorbed in the intestines. If the absorption is delayed, 
composition follows with production of sulphuretted hy( 
and ammonia, which causes considerable gastro-enteric ^^S. 
turbance. The yolk is usually the cause of this disturbance " 
The digestibility of an egg depends upon its freshness and tii0 
manner in which it is cooked. ^ Carelessness in cooking aiA 
serving may make an egg difficult of digestion and unap* 
petizing, when, if it is cooked properly, it would be mo» 
palatable and easy of digestion. For a discussion of the di- 
gestibility of raw eggs see " Albuminous Beverages,'^ page 118. 
Eaw eggs are added to various foods, as milk and broth, etc^ 
to give extra nutriment. Eggs are freely prescribed for 
those suffering from loss of flesh and strength, as the con- 
valescent, anaemic, or in tuberculosis. 

A soft-cooked egg digests very quickly. A hard-cooked 

1 See Albumin, p. 17. 



178 ANIMAL FOODS, 

Principles to he Observed in Cooking. The principal con- 
stituent of the egg white is albumin, which should be cooked 
in such a manner as to require the least possible expenditure 
of force in digestion. Those who are ill cannot afford to 
waste energy, and whether they are forced to do so or not de- 
pends much upon those who prepare their food. 

Effect of Temperature on Albumin. See " Albumin/^ page 

The proper cooking temperature of egg albumin is 160 to 
180 degrees Fahrenheit, when it is found to be tender, soft, 
jelly-like, and in an easily digested state. 

But cooked at the boiling point of water, 212 degrees 
Fahrenheit, albumin is found to be firm, compact, tough and 
indigestible. With this knowledge we can appreciate the 
necessity of cooking eggs at a temperature below that of boil- 
ing water. It is often advisable to cook the white and yolk 
of eggs separately, as the yolk when hard cooked (at proper 
toniperaturo) and mealy is more easily digested than the 
soft cooked yolk, and the white more easily digested soft 

iH.>okiHl. 

Suijgestions, Eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Always wash oggs just Wfore using. Save the shell for mak- 
ing boiled ootTeo, as the shells of three eggs is as effective in 
settling cotTiV as one whole egg. Wlien using several eggs 
break them si^i^a lately in a saucer to test the quality of each. 

In Wating fresh eggs to a stiff froth the idbumin entraps 
tlie air, forniing bubbles which expimd and stiffen when ex- 
[K>st\l to heat and blended with batter and dough, thus mak- 
ing the food light and s^K>ugy. Stale eggs lose this quality 
of frv>thiut^<. 

Teiit ff.^ Fresh Fij(js, To test the freshness of an egg hold 
It in fn.>ut of an eUvtriv light or a caudle in a dark room. If 
the eiTir is wrftvtlv trausUuvut throuo:hout it is fresh. 

The prinoiplo ujK>n wluvli the methods of preserving eggs 
ar\' based, is the vvxeriug of :he surface of the egg with a 



EOOS 179 

preparation which prevents air from entering the Qgg and 
carrying with it the bacteria which cause decomposition. 

ENERGY VALVE OP AN EGG i 

Calories 

1 egg (with shell) average size 74 

1 Qgg (without shell) average size 74 

1 white of egg average size 17 

1 yolk of egg average size 60 

CKEAMEB EGG ON TOAST, 117 CALOKIES 

1 egg. Salt. 

2 tablespoons rich milk. Pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 slice of bread. 

Cut the crust from one slice of bread and cut bread in one- 
inch cubes ; toast while preparing Qgg, Beat the egg with egg 
beater until light colored; stir into it the milk; pour into a 
double boiler, over hot water ; add the butter, a little salt and 
pepper; stir until thick boiled custard. Pour over toasted 
cubes of bread and serve at once. Garnish plate with parsley. 

SOPT COOKED EGGS 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of boiling 
water to cover; remove to back of stove, or where the water 
will keep very hot, but not boil. Cook seven to ten minutes, 
according to consistency desired. Serve in sligjitly heated 
cups. 

Note. — A stone crock is nice to use, as it keeps more even 
heat. A double boiler may be used, putting boiling water 
in top and bottom, set on back of stove and cook six to seven 
minutes, according to size of egg. 

Care must be taken that the size of utensil is in accordance 
with the number of eggs to be cooked, so that # the cold eggs 

1 Range fnun 60 to 100 calories according to size of egg. 



180 ANIMAL FOODS 

will lower the temperature of the boiling water. Keep tem- 
perature about 160 degrees Fahrenheit, or a little above. 

SOPT COOKED EGGS NO. II 

"Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of cold water 
to cover. Bring just to boiling point, remove and serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

EAED COOKED EGGS 

Follow directions for soft cooked eggs ITo. I, allowing egg 
to remain in water forty-five minutes. Chop fine and add 
one-half teaspoon butter and a few grains salt, serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

STEAMED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer or a small sauce-plate and pour in 
the eggs. Salt, place in steamer over boiling water, and 
cook till white is firm. Cooked in this manner, the white is 
tender and light and can be eaten by invalids. 

BAKED EGGS 

Plain baked eggs make a pretty breakfast dish. Take a 
deep earthen plate, butter it and break in the eggs, adding 
salt, pepper, bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the white is set. Garnish with curled parsley and serve with 
buttered toast. Use a small dish to prepare one egg. 

Note. — Before cooking i/^ tablespoon of cream to each 
Qgg may be poured over them, and in serving a little grated 
cheese may be sifted over the top. 

BAKED EGGS 

Break an egg into a baking-cup, pour gently over it a large 
tablespoonful of melted butter sauce; then add a thick layer 
of grated cheese; sprinkle with gluten cracker crumbs, and 
dot with bits of butter. Bake until the egg is set, and serve 
at once. 



r 



GOLDEN-EOD EQOS 

1 hard -crooked egg ^60 Calories. 3 alicea toaBt^l46 Calories. 
Sauee;^170 Calories. 

2 teaspoons butt«r. Speck white pepper, 
y, tablespoon flour. Gait. 

'/g cup Bcalded milk. 

Prepare the sauce. Add the white of egg chopped fine, 
pour over the toast and rub the yolk through a strainer over 
the top. Serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalded 
milk; cook well and season with salt and pepper. 
EOQ HESTS, 142 GALOEIES 
I egg. 1 round of toast with toast 

Toast bread. Separate egg. Beat white to a stiff froth. 
Salt to taste. Spread toast with butter and put white of egg' 
on in shape of nest. Make a depression in center, put in the 
butter and drop the yolk in the hollow. Cook in a moderate 
oven three or four minutes. 

Note. — May be cooked in tumbler placed in pan of water, 
allowing the water to heat gradually, and as the white riseB, 
make a depression and drop in yolk. 

It may be served with Tomato Sauce. 

FOAUT OMELET, 144 CALOEIES 
1 egg. Vi aaltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon milk. Speck pepper. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Separate egg and beat white to a stiff froth. Beat yolk 
till light, add milk, salt and pepper; lightly fold the yolk 
into the white. Put butter into saute pan, when it bubbles 
pour in the mixture. Gently shake pan so omelet will not 
adhere to it; lift up at sides with a knife to see when done, 
and when a delicate brown set pan in oven a minute to 
absorb moisture on top. Fold omelet half over, turn on a 
hot dish, and serve immediately. 



182 ANIMAL FOODS 

Variations. Mix one tablespoon ham, or any meat, 
chopped fine, with foamy omelet, and cook as directed. Or 
when omelet is cooked, the chopped meat may be spread over 
before folding. A little chopped parsley may be added. Oys- 
ters either whole or chopped, or creamed chicken, stewed or 
sliced tomatoes, asparagus tips, peas or jelly may be used. 

BAKED ICEAT OHELET 

Prepare Foamy Omelet and add to it the chopped meat 
Put it into a buttered pudding-dish, set it in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm. 

BREAD OMELET, 164 CALOBIES 

2 tablespoons bread cnimbs. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons milk. 1 egg. 

Speck salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Soak bread crumbs in the cold milk for ten minutes, add 
the salt and pepper. Separate egg and beat until light. Add 
the crumbs and milk to the yolk and fold in the white. Fol- 
low general directions as for Foamy Omelet. 

POACHED OB DROPPED EGOS 

Toast a square or round piece of bread and four toast 
points ; put on hot plate with points at each side and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. Have a shallow pan two-thirds full 
of boiling salted water, allowing one teaspoon salt to one pint 
water. Put a slightly buttered muSin ring on a buttered 
skimmer in the water. Break an egg into the ring. The 
water should cover the egg. When there is a film on top and 
the white is firm, carefully take up skimmer, remove ring, 
loosen egg with a knife and place on the toast; salt slightly 
The toast may be buttered if desired. 

EGG POACHED IN MILE, 470 CALORIES 

1 ppfpf. Salt. 

It/j ipaHpoons butter. 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

y^ cup thin cream. 

Molt butter in top of double boiler, add cream and when 
hot drop in carefully the egg. Cook until white is nearlj 



firm, add salt and Bprinkle with cheese. Serve on toast- 
Cheese may be omitted, 

CODDLED OR SCEAUBLED EQ&S, ISO CALORIES 

I egg. Vi teaBpoon salt. 

V4 cup milk. Speck popper. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Beat egg in top of double boiler until light, add milk and 
rest of ingredients and stir over boiling water until it thick- 
ens; allow it to stand a few minutes without stirring, to set. 
Serve on toast or hot rice. 

EQQ EAITDWICHES, 96 CALORIES 
1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mustard. 

14 teaapoon salt. 3 drops vinegar. 

Speck paprika. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Mince the egg very fine with a silver fork, ndd seasonings 
and butter, and mix thoroughly. Butter very thin slices of 
bread, spread with egg mixture, cover it with watercress 
leaves, or bits of nasturtium leaves, or lettuce. Cover with 
another slice of bread, and cut in triangles or rounds. Serve 
00 small plate and doily. 

Note. — Minced ham may be added to egg mixture. 
SHIRRED EQQS 

Butter an egg shirrer, ramikina, or small earthen cups; 
put one egg in each without breaking yolk ; dust with salt and 
white pepper, put in pan of hot water and cook on back of 
range or in a moderate oven until white is set. If baked, 
cover with a buttered paper to keep from browning. 
SHIRRED EQQS NO. H 

Butter small, deep earthen dishes and line with fine white 
bread crumbs moistened to a paste, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Break an egg in each, sprinkle with a fevr grains 
of ealt, coyer with more paste and bake in a pan of hot water, 
placed in the oven. ^Tien egg is set. serve with two table- 
spoons of tomatoes or cream sauce poured over it^ and itarnish 
with a sprig of parsley. 



184 ANIMAL FOODS 

FILLED sees, 96 GAL0UB8 

1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mnstaixL 

1 teaspoon butter or Paprika. 

1 teaspoon olive oiL Salt. 

Remove the shell and cnt the egg in halves lengthwise. 
Take out the yolk carefully without breaking the white. Eub 
the yolk to a smooth paste, adding the butter or oil and the 
seasonings, and mix iiorou^ly. A small quantity of finely 
chopped ham, tongue or chicken may be added. Pill the 
whites with the mixture and serve on lettuce, or in a bed of 
parsley. 

EGG DESSEST8 

See " Nutritious Desserts '' for recipe. Page 286. 

ALBinaHOUS BEYEEAOES 

See " Albuminous Beverages '* for recipe. Page 118. 

HUE AND HUE PBODTTCTS^ 

Milk is the only substance in nature designed expressly for 
the nourishment of the young animal. It contains all the 
compounds necessary to support life, in remarkably good pro- 
portions and in very assimilable forms. It is a perfect food 
for infants, and is specially suited to the needs of certain 
classes of invalids. For the normal healthy adult it is un- 
desirable as the sole article of diet, because the proportion of 
water is so high that too large quantities have to be taken 
to supply the necessary energy; because the proportion of 
protein is unnecessarily high; and because it furnishes no 
indigestible residues to supply bulk for the perfect function- 
ing of the intestines. 

Composition, Milk contains all the essentials of an ade- 
quate diet. The proportions of the different nutrients vary 
somewhat with different species, and also with individuals of 
the same species. Cow's milk, which is most extensively used, 
is the only kind which will be considered here. Milk has a 
specific gravity of 1.027 to 1.035* 

1 For further information, note " The Use of Milk an Food." Farmer*! 
BuUetin No. 363, U. S. Dept. of Ajcriculture, Washington. D. 0. 



MILK AND MILE PRODUCTS 185 

The chief bulk is water, which averages 87 per cent. The 
solid matter is made up of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The average percentages are aa follows: 
Protein, 3.3 per cent.; fat, 4 per cent,; carbohydrates, 5 per 
cent.; mineral matter, 0.7 per cent. 

The principal protein is casein, a compound containing 
both phosphorus and sulphur. Casein is precipitated (or 
coagulated) by the addition of acid or in neutral solutions, 
by rennet. Milk also contains lactalbumin, averaging about 
1/7 of the total protein. The character of the curd depends 
largely on the relative proportions of casein and lactalbumin. 

The fat of milk varies widely in amount. It is found 
throughout the milk in globules, i. e., as an emulsion. On 
standing, the fat rises to the top and forma cream chemically. 
Several fats are present, chiefly stearin, palmitin and olein, 
with smaller amounts of others, such as butyrin which give 
the characteristic flavor to butter. The chief carbohydrate is 
lactose or milk sugar. This remains in the whey when the 
casein and fat are removed. 

The ash constituents are mainly phosphates and chlorides 
of calcium, sodium and potassium. 

DigestibilHy. While milk is taken as a liquid, it sbouI3 
really be regarded as a solid food, for in the stomach it is 
coagidated by the action of the enzyme rennin in the gastric 
juice. If the milk is swallowed hastily, a large, tenacious 
curd may form, which will remain long in the stomach, and 
the milk will be regarded as difficult of digestion. If the 
milk is sipped slowly — or eaten with a spoon — the curds will 
be small, and hence readily acted on by the gastric juice. 
For this reason, the combination of milk witli another food 
material, as bread or cereal gruel, may render it more easily 
digestible. Many persons think that they cannot digest milk. 
This is seldom true, if the above precautions are taken. 

Nutritive Value. — ■ Milk is a rich source of protein. More- 
over, its proteins are of high biological value because they 
contain all the amino acids essential to good nutrition. Milk 
is the most valaable source of protein from infancy through- 



136 JjnMAL FOODS 

OTit the entire period of growti. It m non-stdnmlatiiig and 
less liable to pnrretaction. in the alimeataiy tract than meat 
proteins. Given a qnart of miTk and an egg each, day, a 
child under eight years of age on a suitable diet of proper 
fuel rahie, will have sufficient protein for all body needs. 

The fat of milk, being in an emuMfied fomnu is more 
readily rligested than the fat of meats and other similar foods. 
The carbohydrates of milk require only transformation to 
simple sugars by the intestinal enzyme lactase, to be per- 
fectlv utilized. Often the ener^rv value of TniTV is increased 
for infants and invalids, bv addition of this soluble, mild- 
flavored compound. 

The ash of milk contains the elements necessarv to the 
Viody in particularly assimilable forms. It contains only a 
small amount of iron, but the iron present is in an especially 
valuable form. When milk is the chief source of nutriment, 
as with infants and young children, iron must be supplied by 
the addition of other foods such as egg yolk and spinach. 

The value of milk as a food is not appreciated by many 
y>ef>ple. It is frequently regarded as a beverage rather than 
a food, while in fact a quart of milk is equivalent in fuel value 
to approximately nine ounces of white bread, one pound 
of lean beef and nine eggs. It contains as much protein as 
about one third of a pound of lean beef, and in addition about 
as much fat as is supplied by one and one half ounces of but- 
ter, over one and one half ounces of milk sugar, and valuable 
mineral salts. Compared with other animal foods milk is a 
cheap food, even at present prices, and should enter freely into 
the dietan*. It mav be flavored with cocoa or coffee, or it 
need not be used as a beverage, but can be combined with 
other materials in soups, sauces for vegetables, custards and 
the like, or used in cooking cereals, in place of water. 

'i'he value of skim milk as a food also needs to be empha- 
sized. It has lost most of the fat in the skimming process, 
but has })ractically the same amount of protein, carbohy- 
drate and ash as whole milk. It is not as rich in flavor 
ns whole milk, but used in combination with other foods 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 187 

it forms a very inexpensive so-urce of valuable iiutriniDnt. 

Care of milk. The importance of keeping milk clean can- 
not be over-emphasized. Aside from all esthetic considera- 
tions, absolute cleanliness is essential as a, protection to 
health. Milk is an excellent culture medium for bacteria, and 
these organisms may not only be of types producing changes 
in the character of the milk, such as alterations in flavor, 
odor, color, decomposition of proteins, formation of gases, 
alcohol, lactic acid, etc., but also disease germs, especially 
those of tuberculosis, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, diphtlieria 
and septic sore throat. 

Comviercially the care of milk has an important effect on the 
keeping qualities. For all these reasons, milk should come 
from a healthy animal in a sanitary environment. Milking 
must be done under conditions which protect the milk as 
fully as possible from contamination through impurities on 
the cow herself, on the hands or clothing of the milker, in 
the receptacles used for the milk, and in the air, in the place 
where the milking is done. Milk should be immediately 
cooled, and transported to the consumer in sealed bottles; 
cooling prevents the growth of bacteria. Such cautions 
necessarily increase the price of milk, but even then milk is 
a cheap food and the additional security is worth paying 
for. 

Certiftcation of Milk. To insure a milk free from im- 
purities, the method of certification and pasteurization have 
been widely adopted. 

Certiiication involves a specific testing of milk against all 
accidental and harmful contamination. To secure it the 
services of chemists, bacteriologists and veterinaiy surgeons 
are required. The most vital object desired is the exclusion 
of tubercule bacilli from miik, which involves a special in- 
spection of dairy herds and rejection of tuberculous cows. 
Other pernicious germs, pus corpuscles, etc., are also sought 
for. 

Certification of milk requires periodical inspection of 



I9fl lyiMAL FOODS 

'Vd.r.t'.Ti. ir 'inrrii-'i .ii-lk )i)U:£!ir in )p«i aiarket. 'itc- AH ^'^^ 
.iv.irX :■.]■:• :.-t;}« aii ".J i 3.iiiiiij*^r ind Tarierv or rests, coo n-im-f:- 

■;-.i: .11.1 ".V :vitLe -5 :')^=:r^L Siicii mi.'k r^eivea a cer::i:oi:e 
■\".:.i::: iiirj;.-: :--.G7a-D. "iie iare or niiLkiair (xniL is nurartillT ri- 
Cf^r.rfi-r. :r.7 :- ^iirjilti :e 'n^d TJienever possible for inianrs 
ar.ii -.:::« :::.'-- i.-rii. mii f:r ill purposti ia lioui=eiioLia which 
hi' "::fi >rir iriiles :f :tlier ::«:<i DiarerJilis. 

'livr-/: tsj,:-. :: ies= ^rarile 'Iz-zva^ iesmctioa ci acrive bac- 
r,^r'..\ ".;■ JL-rri":. Viri'-jia iiJUiIar-L*. as zo remperamre and 
*..r.'.t .-.a-r ^en i-:':j:"-r':. ":ut iz. j^^neral the milk Ls heated 
V- 1 :r:r.".:e.-i-::.-=r z^:" -rzjerclzz l-to' F.. f^r a period of "20 to 
.V; .".ri-.r^rr^. iz,'l :Vii :•!::::> -zooleii :q -to' F. or lower. 
]tr->.- r..i.'"r.;il ".a'-.'i^ria azd laciic acid bacteria are killed. 
>ior;-:« -i-'r: --:■■.: killrd, ;ir.d if :he nilk ia not keot coM or is 
a..OTi^'i :■; raiL'i :.:o l:i^. p-^-reractive organiams develop. 
7r.-;-.r r. :::■;: a.-.-iTe -:ha::rrs ar«r v^rj :indesirable. so that the 
f.iiT-: \: r;^.T::-::zr;d nilk := ''is* as important as that of fresh 
rr.i.A. I: oJij-^irs.r'.T r.an:l-:d- ie fa-:: :hat it does not sour 
rf;Ji.':"!v :.= a rr.^na:'^ :o h-ral:h raiher than a benefit. 

r-.r/.r.'.-^rr .^1 r.i-rr: :r:za:: .z is a .h-rap and etTeotive means 
o : '. .--: ' ': :. *. . :. j '. :'. -■; - ;.■ r-;a 1 -v :' ■■. : 1 i Lirr :r. recti-jus diseases. The 
<:*Yj :•:*': '■-.:' ..-;«.*: T >-;';: ::-:■: i'^-? r-o: i:i.ar.:ze materially the flavor 
or :::.': ^::.^:rr.:-;«i co:r:po^:t:on -:■: t::e milk. It d«:»es destroy the 
aL-irOor/.r:'-: r^r'-.-r^-rtv. (.See " Antiscorbutic Propertv of 
F00.J7.'* ^:.^rj^rr 1. r;^i'e -'-■' When clean fresh milk cannot 
be au-oliitel;.' ir.-jre'i. it is safer to pasteurize. But this proo- 
f:=.s r-ar.r.ot rruti-re ^a-i rniik st-xhI '"-r 'lirty milk clean. If 
bar-teria have already produced poisonous products it will not 
de-troy theni. 

>f.pri1rzafion.. Sterilization i.s af''omj)lished by keeping milk 
Jit boilin;: temperature (112 decrees F. ) fur 10 or more min- 
iite.s, preferably in the vessel in which it is to remain. This 
will kill all living bacteria, but will not df.stn)y spores. Hence 
to render rriilk absolutely sterile, repetition of the process on 
succf.'ssive davs is necessary. Thi» is rarely done, as the spores 



MILK AND MILE PRODVOTS 189 

are not likely to develop if the milk is kept at a temperature 
of 40 degrees F. or less. 

Sterilized milt is not an ideal food. Boiling changes the 
taste, and the cream does not rise aa quickly; the chemical 
nature of the milk is altered. It is less easily coagulated hy 
rennet, since the calcium salts are changed. The antiscorhu- 
tic property is destroyed. Sterilization should he regarded 
as an emergency measure, for hot weather, when cooling facili- 
ties are lacking. 

mLE PSOQVCTS 

Butter. Butter consists almost entirely of separated milk 
fat. Churning canses the fat globules to unite into a solid 
mass. The cream is first allowed to ripen for some hours. 
This process gives the characteristic taate and odor, which is 
dne to action of bacteria. When kept, butter tends to turn 
rancid, owing to the fermentation of a small quantity of casein 
present. Salt ia added largely to prevent this change. But- 
ter is very palatable, and one of the moat digestible forms 
of fat. 

Cheese. Cheese ia made from full milk, skim milk or 
cream. It consists of the casein of the milk and more or 
less of the fat and mineral matters. The flavor is due to the 
action of enzymes in molds or bacteria. Cheese is a very 
concentrated nutritious food, and very thoroughly assimilated. 
It is not usually well borne by invalids and convalescents, 
however. 

Cream. Cream is the fatty layer which forms at the top 
of milk which is allowed to stand undisturbed. It contains 
the fat of the milk, water, some protein, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The percentage of fat is exceedingly vari- 
able, ranging from about 16 per cent, to 40 per cent. The 
cream which rises on milk after 24 hours is called gravity 
cream and contains about 16 per cent. fat. The richer creams 
Bie obtained by centrifugalizing the milk. Cream in large 



I 



190 ANIMAL FOODS 

quantities is less easily digested than an equal amount of 
whole milk because of the large amount of fat, but this fonn 
of fat is easily digested compared with other food fats, and 
hence is often ordered by physicians. 

Curds. When milk sours, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid by the action of lactic acid bacteria upon the 
sugar, or when the enzyme rennet is added to fresh milk at 
body temperature, and the clot is stirred, the curds separate 
from the whey. 

Curds consist of coagulated casein, which commonly car- 
ries with it the fat and gentle heat facilitates this separation, 
but a high temperature renders the curd tough and indigesti- 
ble. With or without the addition of cream, curds are used 
as cottage cheese and is a very cheap, nutritious food. 

Junket. If sweet milk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet, the thickened, custard-like mass 
is called junket. This is a valuable method of using milk, 
especially for invalids, children, and those who fromi personal 
idiosyncrasy cannot drink milk. 

Whey. This substance may be either sweet when formed 
by junket or sour when otherwise produced. It contains 
most of the lactose, lactalbumin and ash constituents of the 
milk, but has so little nutritive value, owing to the removal of 
the milk fat and casein, that it may be regarded as a beverage. 
See page 185. 

Sour Milk. When whole milk sours, with the formation 
of " curds and whey," the entire product is known as clabber 
or bonny-clabber. It is wholesome, and nutritious, since it 
contains all the ingredients naturally present in milk. By 
some it is used as a beverage. When not so relished, it can be 
used to good advantage in cooking, adding its nutritive value 
to any dish in which it is incorporated. 

Buttermilk. True buttermilk, which is common on farms, 
is seldom found in commerce. Unless produced where sold, 
its genuineness may be a matter of question. Those who are 
familiar with the genuine article state that the delicacy of 
its flavor, its consistency, etc., are much superior to the so- 



MILK AXD MILK PSODVCTS 191 

iii]i>VfT'n»TTlr ctf commerce. The composition of the tvo 
aitidfes 5s pracsiciIlT the same. Wben skim milk, the ore^im 
faaii^ IseeiL TEmsfTBi hj the septrttor. is allo^pred to «>ur, it 
is Slid xo rpfiPfnMp ordinjirT buttermilks and the fluid which 
goes hr lie latier mme, sold extensively throughout Greater 
Xew York, k siid to he sour skim milk, 

M€i9ckmie^Pof Artificially Soured Mill\ The announce- 
ment some jeMis ago by Metschnickoff that the foregoing 
products wert of very great hygienic and tliorapeutic value in 
dianfecdi^ die int^tines has resulted in the wholesale pro* 
dnctkm of m sohstance which differs from ordinary sour 
milk in that it is prepared from a pure culture of lactic- 
acid germs. This product is doubtless destined to replace 
the older ones on account of its freedom from undesirable 
forms of bacteria. The technique for preparing it, devised 
originally by Metschnickoff himself, also places it in a higher 
class than the older preparations. Pure cultures are sold in 
the natural liquid form or are desiccated and sold as tablets. 

Fermented Milk. Milk which has been fermented is really 
a deriTative of native milk^ and in parts of Europe and Asia 
constitutes an important article of diet. The fermentation 
is either the lactic alone or lactic and alcoholic together. 

The ferments used consist chiefly of various " leavens '^ 
or cultures which cause lactic acid fermentation. People who 
have subsisted on this milk for centuries simply use a por- 
tion of old fermented milk to leaven fresh milk. These 
leavens vary considerably in composition, and the milk used 
may be from one of several domestic animals. Some leavens 
contain yeast germs, so that alcohol may or may not be 
present. The native preparations which have been imitated 
in this country are kumyss, kefir and matzoon. 

Kumyss was prepared originally from mares' milk. The 
leaven contains lactic acid germs and yeast. The product 
therefore contains lactic acid, alcohol, and carbonic acid 
gas, representing an acid, effervescing, mildly alcoholic bev- 
erage. The casein curd is finely broken up and partially 
digested. Kumyss has been imitated in America by adding 



193 ANIMAL FOODS 

yeast to mitk and allowing fermentetion to proceed twen^- 
four hours or over. 

Kefir was made originally from cowb' milk with a leaven 
of kumyes. This has been sold in tablet form like the ren- 
net ferment. Kefir resemblea kumyaa bo closely that no 
further description is necesaary. 

Malzoon differs from the preceding chiefly in containing 
no alcohol. 

Modified Milk is milk containing definite proportions of 
fat, sugar, proteids, etc., put up usually according to the 
formula of a physician, who prescribes the quantity of tbe 
different constituents he desires. 

For sick children and in convalescence it is of great value 
to obtain a modification in which tbe composition is definite 
and accurate. It can then be known what mixtures will agree 
with the patient. 

Malted Milk ia a pure food prepared from rich full-cream 
milk, combined with the valuable nutritive extracts of malted 
barley and wheat. This product being highly concentrated 
and partially predigeated, suppliea a large amount of nutrition 
with little tax upon the digestive organs. It ia a valuable 
nutrient in dyspepsia or impaired digestion, for fever and 
wasting diseases, the convaleacent, nursing mothers, and the 
aged. 

Pepionised Milk is milk in which the casein or curd has 
been made soluble and diffusible by means of the Peptoniaing 
Tubes. In these Peptoniaing Tubes, estractum pancreatis, 
containing the pancreatic ferment which acta especially upon 
the proteins of milk, is combined with soda bicarbonate in 
due proportion, and each tube containa sufficient peptoniaing 
powder to peptonise a pint of milk. Milk may be peptonised 
by various methods — by tlie " cold proceaa," " immediate 
proceaa," " warm process," etc. Tlie method and degree of 
peptonisation suitable for any special case is soon determined 
by experience, by the agreeability of the milk and its digesti- 
bHity. 
. Condensed Milk. Preservation of milk by condensation 



MILE AND MILK PRODUCTS 193 

constituteB b very extensive commercial industry. There are 
several processes in vogue, and the product is either sweet- 
ened or unsweetened. Ordinary unsweetened condensed milk 
contains about 12 per ct'nt. each of protein and fat and 16 per 
cent, of the native milk sugar, making the total solids 40 per 
cent. Cane sugar may be added to the amount of about 40 per 
cent, more, making the total solids 80 per cent. 

Diy Milk is milk in powdered form from .which all of the 
water has been removed. The resulting powder is milk in its 
most concentrated, digestible and nutritious form. Dry milk 
having part of the butter fat removed (12% in the dry state), 
has been found to be best suited for infants and those suf- 
fering from impaired digestion. It is most valuable in mal- 
nutrition, vomiting and other infant feeding troubles as 
well as in febrile conditions, such as, typhoid, pneumonia; 
also in empyema, osteomyelitis and suppurative conditions. 

Evaporated Milk is made of pure milk, fresh from the 
cow, nothing taken from it to lessen its nourishing qualities 
and nothing added. It is sterilized by the application of a 
higher degree of heat than is used in ordinary pasteurization. 

EKEEQT TALTTE 01 mXE 

1 cup of whole milk = 169 Calories. 

1 cup ikimmfd milk = 89 Calories. 

1 cup dry milk ( 16 level tbsp. or 2 oz.) = 264 Calories. 

I cup cream (18%) =440 Calories. 

1 cup cream ( 40% ) = HQ4 Calories. 

PA8TZUEIZATI0IT 
Methods of Preparing. Put bottle into kettle of cold 
water and slowly bring to the boiling point. Boil ten minutes. 
After which fill immediately nearly full with milk ; cork with 
absorbent cotton which has been baked in the oven until a 
delicate brown. Place bottles on a rest in a deep pan so that 
they will not touch bottom, and fill the pan with cold water to 
reach as high as the milk iu bottles. Heat water gradually to 
145 degrees Fahrenheit, or until small bubbles appear in 
the milk next to the glass. Remove to back of stove and keep 
milk at same temperature 20 to 30 minutes; then cool 



194 ANIMAL FOODS 

quickly to 45 degrees or lower. To cool rapidly put bottles 
first into lukewarm water and then cold water until milk iS 
cold, then surround with ice water. Keep in cold place and 
do not remove stoppers until ready to use. Note Pasteuriza- 
tion, page 188. 

Utensils. A convenient form of apparatus for pasteuriza- 
tion can be purchased or a covered tin pail answers well for 
the larger vessel, and an inverted pie pan with perforated 
bottom can serve as the false bottom. A hole may be punched 
in the cover of the pail, a cork inserted and a chemical 
thermometer put through the cork so that the bulb dips in 
the water, thus enabling one to watch the temperature closely 
without removing the cover, or an ordinary dairy ther- 
mometer may be used from time to time by removing 
the lid. 

stebhizatiok 

The utensils and methods to sterilize milk are the same as 
for pasteurizing, except that the water is heated to the boU- 
ing point (212° F.) and the time for boiling is ten or more 
minutes. Note Sterilization, page 188. 

EVAPORATED MILX 

It is sometimes of advantage, as in cases of dilated stom- 
ach or whenever the total amount of fluids must be cut down 
to a given point, to heat the milk in a pan over which is 
placed an inverted funnel. Much of the water of the milk 
passes off as vapor, while the solids remain in the pan. 

BAKED MILK 

Into a stone jar put one-half gallon of sweet milk; cover 
with writing paper and tie it on. Bake in moderate oven 
nine to ten hours. It will be the consistency of thick cream. 

MALTED MILK, 122 CALORIES 

Mix two tablespoon of Horlick's Malted Milk powder with 
a little tepid water to make a smooth paste; add three-fourths 
cup water, hot or cold, stirring briskly and serve. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 195 

Note. — May be prepared with hot milk instead of water 
and a little cream added if desired. 

PEPTONISES UILE, 33S CALOSOS 
Warm Process 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonisiag Tubes (Fairchild) into a 
clean quart bottle and shake thoroughly; add a pint of cold 
fresh milk and shake again ; then place the bottle in a pail 
or kettle of warm water — ahont 115° F., or not too hot to 
immerse the whole hand in it without discomfort. Keep 
the bottle in the water hath for five or ten minutes, or longer 
if it is desired to peptonise the milk quite completely, then 
put it immediately on ice — directly in contact with the ice 
~— in order to check the process of digestion and keep the milk 
from spoiling. 

The degree of peptoniaation is very simply regulated in 
this process by the length of time during which the milk is 
kept in the water bath. It is seldom necessary to peptonise 
milk ■until it becomes hitter. 

PASTIALIT FEFTDNISED UILZ, 33S CALDHIES 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) into a 
clean saucepan, and stir well; add a pint of cold frosh milk, 
and heat, with constant stirring, to boiling point. The heat 
should be so applied that the milk will come to a boil in ten 
minutes. Let it cool to about lukewarm, then strain into a 
clean bottle or glass jar, cork tightly and keep in a cold 
place. The bottle or jar should always be well shaken before 
*nd after pouring out a portion. The milk may be taken 
eold or hot as the physician may direct. 

" PartiaJhj peptonised milk" if properly prepared will not 
become bitter. 

PEFTOmSED UILE, 338 CALOEIES 
Cold Process 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water into a clean quart 
bottle and dissolve in it by shaking thoroughly the powder 



196 ANIMAL FOODS 

contained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Pairchild) ; add 
a pint of cold fresh milk, shake the bottle again^ and tm- 
mediately place it on ice — directly in contact with the ice. 

The bottle should always be well shaken before and after 
pouring out a portion. 

Peptonised milk prepared by this recipe is especially ap- 
preciated by patients who dislike the taste of wanned or 
boiled milk, and ordinarily it is readily digested and assimir 
lated. 

PEPTONISED MILX 
Immediate Process 

Put two tablespoons (1 oz.) of cold water into a goblet 
or glass; dissolve in this one-quarter of the contents of a 
Peptonising Tube (Fairchild) ; add eight tablespoonfuls 
(4 ozs.) of warm milk — not boiling; drink immediately, 
sipping slowly; 85 calories. 

To prepare half a pint of milk, use half the contents of a 
Peptonising Tube, 4 tablespoonfuls of water, a half pint of 
milk; 169 calories. 

SPECIALLY PEPTONISED MILK, 338 CALOSIES 

For Making Milk JeUy, Milk Punch, Milk Lemonade, and for TTie 

with Fruit Juices or Acids 

Peptonise a pint of milk by the "Warm Process/' keep- 
ing the bottle in the water bath for one hour; pour the pep- 
tonised milk into a saucepan and heat to boiling, when it is 
ready for use if it is required hot ; or it may J)© put on ice, in 
a bottle or any suitable container, to be used for punches, 
lemonade, etc. 

It is necessary to peptonise the milk quite completely — 
for one hour — so that it will not curdle when mixed with 
lemon juice or acid. The bitter taste of this "specially 
peptonised milk'' is not evident in the jellies, punches, etc., 
and these foods are very agreeable and exceedingly assimil- 
able. 

EFFERVESCENT PEPTONISED MILK 

Into a glass put some finely cracked ice and fill it half- 
full of vichy, carbonated or siphon water, add immediately 



i peptonist 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



peptonised milk prepared by any of the preacribed methods 
and drink while efEervescing. Brandy or other spirits may be 
added if desired. 

THIGEEItED UILE 
See Flour Giue!. Page 239. 

EICE MIIK, 458 CAI0HIE8 
1 ounce rice. W teaapoon Halt, 

1 pint scalded milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Soak rice twelve hours, strain and add the scalded milk, 
salt and sugar. Stir well and cook slowly one hour. Eub 
through a fine sieve (thin with more hot milk if desired). 
Taste and add more seasoning if necessary. Sago or tapioca, 
may be used in the same way. 

BUK AHD MILK, 186 CALOSIES 
^ cup milk. I Va teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon nun or brandy. 

Use fresh or pasteurized milk. Put ingredients into a 
lemonade shaker or fruit jar (using rubber band and cover) ; 
cover well and shake until frothy. Serve in glass three- 
fourths filled. 

8HEHRT OR BRANDT AHO UILK, 173 GALOBIES 
% cup fresh milk. % teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon brandy or Nutmeg. 

Vj wiuegtass of slierry. 

Blend as for " Rum and Milt." Fill glass three-fourths 
full and add a grating of nutmeg on top. 

CUtSAXOn AND UILK, 132 CAXOBIES > 

% cup new milk. Sugar. 

Stick cinnamon. y^ teaspoon brandy. 

Boil milk, with sufficient cinnamon to flavor pleasantly, 
and sweeten. This may be taken cold with the brandy. 
Very good in cases of diarrhcea. Children may take it warm 
without brandy. 



198 ANIMAL FOODS 



6V^ ounces whey = 60 Calories. 

1 cup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet, dissolved 
in the cold water. Allow it to jelly in a warm place. Then 
break up the curd and strain through two thicknesses of 
cheese-cloth, being careful to remove all the casein. Serve 
cold, with or without sweetening, and flavor as desired. 

LiaiTII) FEFTONOIDS AlH) WHEY 

Place one tablespoonful of finely cracked ice in a small tea- 
cup. Pour over it one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids; 
stir, fill the cup with whey and drink slowly. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY 

See ^^ Acid Beverages ^^ for recipe. Page 113. 

LEMON WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages " for recipe. Page 113. 

WINE WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages " for recipe. Page 113. 

THICKENED MILK 

Dry milk can be fed to the sick in highly concentrated form 
by simply adding a little water: for example — a glass 2/3 
full, mixed with hot water has double the milk solids of ordi- 
nary milk. Or it can be made into a paste or thin gruel by 
mixing with cold water. 

KTTMYSS, 328 CALORIES 

\ cake Flcischmann's yeast. 1 tablespoon water. 

1^2 tablespoons sugar. 1 quart milk. 

Make a thin syrup of the sugar and water and cook one 
minute. Soften the yeast in two tablespoons of lukewarm 
milk. Heat the milk until lukewarm, add other ingredients 
and shake. Put in sterile patent beer bottles, place in up^ 
right position for twelve hours, at 70 degrees Fahrenheit 
(or comfortably warm room) ; then turn on side at heat 



MILK AND MILE PRODUCTS 199 

50 degrees Fahrenheit (lower part of ice-box). Ready for 
use after the first twenty-four hours; often kept several days, 
but the longer it is kept the less palatable it is. Do not 
open a hottle of kumyss without a champagne tap, or the 
cork naay be punctured with a stout needle to let the gas 
escape. It should look like thick, foamy cream. 

Kumysa is especially suited for many forms of indigestion, 
nausea, fever and gastric trouble, pulmonary coneumption and 
other wasting disease. 

Dr. Brush's prepared kumysa is recommended on account 
Cif its superiority over the home-made preparations, as the 
loilk supply is controlled, and the method of preparing is 
carried out upon scientific bases. It is also more convenient, 
&B it is ready for immediate use. 

KATZOON OE ZOOLAE (GEHIIAN EOSFITAL, HEW YOBE GItT) 
1 pint ^338 Calories. 

Take forty-five pints of milk, boil thoroughly. Cream 
two or three times; that is, until all the cream is removed. 
When the milk is still quite warm add two (3) bottles of 
prepared bottled Zoolak. Mix thoroughly. Bottle quickly in 
pint bottles, not entirely full. Cork tightly immediately, and 
put in a warm place till the liquid shows creamy througli the 
bottles. Then place and keep iik a cold place. 

N. B. — If chilled before it is thick it remains thin and 
the flavor is spoded. If not kept very cold after it is made 
the fermentation is carried too far. 

JUBKET, ISS CALOBIES 
1 cup fresh milk. \ teaspoon cold water. 

\i Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm ; add the tablet dissolved 
in the cold water; allow it to jelly in a warm place ; chill in 
ice-boi; serve plain or in the Tarioua ways as directed in 
chapter "Nutritious Desserts." 

ABTI7ICIA1 OS BOKEKAOE BTTTTEKKILX 
1 cup (whole milk buttermilk) =169 CalorieB. 

Faetenrize fresh, sweet milk, which may be new, or partly 



200 ANIMAL FOODS 

skimmed, or entirely fat-free, as desired, by heating it to 
between 160 and 175 degrees F, and holding at such tem- 
perature for at least 20 minutes, cool to 100 degrees. 

Dissolve one Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablet in a table- 
spoon of cold milk or water and add a quart or less of the 
pasteurized milk. Leave in warm room until thick, 24 to 
36 hours. 

When milk has thickened, place in refrigerator. When 
cold, " Churn ^^ by shaking the bottle vigorously for a minute 
or two. Or the milk may be prepared in a fruit jar, a bowl 
or a pitcher and beaten with an egg beater until smooth and 
creamy. 

If the acid flavor is too mild, let stand cold another day. 

If desired, the milk may be diluted with one-fourth water. 
A pinch of salt may be added. 

Junket Buttermilk may be kept on ice or in refrigerator 
for a week or longer. 

SWEETBREADS 

Among epicures sweetbreads are considered a dainty and 
are certainly a most acceptable food for the sick, as they are 
easily digested, but they must not be used to excess on account 
of the large amount of uric acid which they produce. 

Definition, Sweetbreads are the pancreas and thymns 
glands of the calf, the word being used for either one or 
both organs. The thymus glands are removed and used for 
food while the animal lives on milk. The pancreas of the 
calf is sometimes called stomach sweetbread, and the thymus 
gland the neck or throat sweetbread. The latter is con- 
sidered somewhat more easily digested than the former. 

Digestibility. It is an error to state that sweetbreads are 
more digestible because they contain digestive ferments in 
life, for these are destroyed by cooking. The tenderness of 
these bodies is due doubtless to the delicate character of the 
connective tissue, and to the soft character of the gland tis- 
sue itself, which is rich in nucleo-protein. The presence of 



SWEETBREADS 201 

this nuclein ib objectionable for gouty and other patients 
with uric acid disordera, but this is no contraindication for 
an occasional use of them by invalids. 

EHEEQY TALUI OF SWEETBREADS 

100 grams (SVa o'-) sweetbrcada = 178 CalorieB. 

1 pair sweetbreads, medium size (B oz.) . . =^3B0 Calories. 

1 pair sweetbreads, medium size (8 oz.), when cooked, freed from 

Dtembrane, pipe, etc., and cut iota cubes, measures three-fourths 

TO PSEPABE SWEETBREADS 
(To Parboil.) 

Remove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge 
into cold water and allow to stand one hour. Drain. Place 
immediately in boiling water salted water to cover, allowing 
one-half tablespoon each of salt and vinegar to a pair of 
sweetbreads. Simmer twenty minutes; again drain and 
plunge into cold water that they may keep white and firm. 
Free from membrane fat and veins, and serve as desired. 

Sweetbreads are always prepared in this way for subse- 
quent cooking and are spoken oi as parboiled, 

BSOIIES SWEETBREADS 

Parboil and cut in halves cross-wise. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, place on a greased fine wire broilei, and broil 
five minutes over a clear fire. As soon as sweetbread is 
heated brush both sides with a little melted butter. Serve 
with creamed butter to which has been added a little lemon 
juice or simply spread with soft butter. 

CREAKED SWEETBREADS HO. I, 2SS CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
^ tablespoon butter. '/^ cup milk. 

Yi tablespoon flour. '/^ cup sweetbreads. 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour on gradually the scald- 
ing milk. Cook thoroughly and season. Add the parboiled 
sweetbreads cut in small pieces, reheat and Ben,'e on toast and 
garnish with parsley. 



202 ANIMAL FOODS 

Note. — For Scalloped Sweetbreads put creamed sweetbreads 
in small baking dish ; cover with cracker crumbs and dot with 
bits of butter ; bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. II, 968 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1 cup thin cream or rich milk. l^ teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup sweetbreads. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into one-half inch cubes. 
Blend flour with a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture; 
scald cream in double boiler, add the flour mixture and cook 
thoroughly. Just before serving add the prepared sweet- 
breads, salt and butter. Serve hot on toasted rounds, and 
garnish with parsley, or use as a filling for Swedish tim- 
bales. 

Note. — May use equal proportions of cold cooked chicken 
and sweetbreads, reheat and serve in the cream sauce. 

FRICASSEED SWEETBREADS, 240 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 

Parboil and cut sweetbread into one-half inch pieces. 
Make a sauce using: 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup hot strong chicken broth. 

1 teaspoon flour. l^ cup cream. 

Yg teaspoon lemon juice. Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, allow it to simmer until 
a golden brown, then add the hot broth gradually, stirring 
constantly, lastly the cream. Season with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. A speck of curry powder may be added if 
desired. 

Put the cut sweetbread into the sauce, simmer five minutes 
and serve on sippets or squares of dry toast; garnish with 
parsley. 

SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS 
1 cup of canned peas =100 Calories. 

Parboil and broil sweetbreads, arrange in center of plat- 
ter, and serve the peas (cooked and seasoned) around &em. 

^ Calculated without the sweetbreads. 



GELATIN 303 

Or llie peas may be piled in center of platter and the broiled 
Bweetbreads arranged as a border. A cream sauce may be 
poured over all; for it, use the recipe in Creamed Sweet- 
breads No, I or II. 

0£LATIH 

Source. Gelatin is a nitrogenou3 food classed with pro- 
teins, under the division called gelatinoids or albuminoids, and 
derived from " collagen," the chief constituent of connective 
tissue with ita various modifications, as tendons, the " chondri- 
gen " of cartilage, or the " ossein " of bone, " By proper 
treatment, any form of connective tissue can be made to yield 
gelatin. Hide clippings yield glue, a crude form of gelatin, 
and much commercial gelatin ia simply a purified glue, derived 
from such a source. Isinglass, obtained from the swimming 
bladder of the sturgeon and other fish, is the purest form of 
gelatin; the gelatin obtained from calves' feet is also of high 
quality." ' 

General Principles in Cooking. Gelatin is insoluble in 
cold water, but when allowed to stand in it will swell from 
absorption of water. "Gelatin is very soluble in boiling 
water, and on cooling sets into a jelly. This jellying will 
occur in a solution containing as little as 1 per cent, of 
gelatin." ' Gelatin is decomposed by boiling and conse- 
quently if allowed to boil will not solidify on cooling. 

Digestibility. Gelatin is very easily digested in the stom- 
ach, and readily absorbed from the small intestines. 

Nutritive Value. Although gelatin is a protein food, it 
cannot alone support life. Proteins are made up of groups 
of amino acids, most of which it seems necessary to have 
represented in the diet, to secure complete repair of the waste 
of nitrogenous tissue. In gelatin two important acids are 
lacking ; hence not more than two-thirds of the day's nitrogen 
requirement should be given in the form of gelatin. Because 
it can to this extent take the place of other proteins, gelatin 
has often been called a "protein-sparer," but it is a true 

1 SUllB or Connecticut. BepOfl ot The ConnecticuC Aicicullarml Eipsii- 
menl SUlloD. FockI Drid Drug FroduclB. ISOB, Bsini Fart It of Iho 
Biintiiiil Rsporl ot IBOB-ISIO. 



1 




804 ANIMAL FOODS 

protein. In the ordinary intake of animal food, not more' 
than one-eiglith of the total nitrogen is in the form of gelatiiL 
It is usually not convenient to take more than 25 to 30 
grams (about 1 ounce) in & day. Six ounces of calf's foot 
jelly (which would be a large helping) contain less than half 
an ounce of gelatin. Jellying will occur in a solution con- 
taining as little as 1 per cent, of gelatin. Gelatin has the 
advantage (along with other proteins) of fixing a good deal 
of acid in the process of stomach digestion and is thus of 
aervice in cases of hyperacidity of the stomach, when giyen 
in other forms than acid jellies. It seems also to promote 
the secretion of gastric juice. It ia useful in febrile stata 
as it really belongs with liquid foods, melting as it does at 
body temperature. 

In convalescence, acid jellies (orange, lemon, etc.,) are of 
■ flerviee as a pleasant supplement to the ordinary diet, but the 
actual nutriment which they supply is small. 

Extra nutriment can he added to gelatin by combining it 
with eggs and milk, as in Snow Pudding, Charlottes o£ 
various kinds, Spanish Cream, etc., all of which are attrac- 
tive forms of invalid diet. 

Meat Jellies are condensed form of broth, and are prepared 
by taking any meat containing a large proportion of eonnefr 
tive tissues and cooking long and slowly. (Note broths, page 
217 for directions and recipes.) Home-made jellies, prop- 
erly prepared, have a pleasing flavor and are an agreeable 
addition to diet of an invalid, although their nutritive value 
is low. 

For the Diabetic. Sugar must be replaced by sweetina or 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but it has no 
food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 349. 

WINE JELLT HO. I, 18S CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspooa granulated gelatin. 2 tableapoons wiue. 

1 tablespoon iiold water. 1 tablespoon orange juice. 
^4 cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 

2 tablespoons s'lgar. 




QELATIN 205 

Soak gelatin in the cold Tater 5 minutes ; add the boiling 
wat«r and dissolve. Add sugar, wine, orange and lemon 
juice. When sugar is dissolved, strain through a cheese- 
cloth into cold, wet molds; or chOl in shallow soup plate 
and when firm cut into one-half inch cubes and serve in 
sherbert or champagne glasses, or half orange shell with a 
little whipped cream on top. 

WINE TELLT NO. H, 1S30 CALORIES 

(Sii Servings.) 
Va box shredded gelatin or 2 cups boiling water. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup wine. 
Vi (^up cold water. Speck Bait. 

IVi eupa sugar. 

Cover gelatin with the cold water and let it stand about 
one-half hour. Add the boiling water, sugar and salt. Stir 
till gelatin is dissolved and add the wine. Strain through 
cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds and set in cold place 
to harden. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

fEFTOITOIDS WINE lELLT, 182 CAIOEIES 

% box gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon alierry wine. 

8 tableapoona boiling water. 1 tablespoon Liquid Pcptonoida. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar, wine and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is 
dissolved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

OEAHOE JELLT SO. X, 1020 CALORZBS 

(Six Servings.) 
% box sbredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

2 tableapoonk granulated gelatin. 1 cup orange juice. 
14 cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water one-half hour; add the 
boiling water and dissolve. Add sugar and fruit juice, 
strain through a cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds 



206 ANIMAL FOODS 

and set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

ORANGE JELLY NO. n, 162 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Make same as preceding. Soaking gelatin five minutes. 

Cut orange in half, crosswise, remove pulp with spoon 
and strain through cheese-cloth. Fill halves with jelly ; when 
it is hardened cut with sharp knife into thirds (which leaves 
the rim filled with jelly). Serve three pieces on small plate 
with whipped cream in center. 

ORANGE BASKETS 

Wash oranges. Eemove two sections from the upper half 
of an orange, leaving a band of peel for a handle. Dig out 
the pulp and scrape clean. Fill with lemon or orange jelly, 
cut into cubes. An attractive form to serve to children. 

Note. — If these shells are wrapped in a damp cloth they 
will retain their shape for hours. 

LEMON JELLY, 142 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

y^ cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar and fruit juice. When the sugar is dissolved, 
pour into cold, wet molds and put on ice to harden. 

GRAPE JELLY, 588 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. ^2 cup sugar. 
V4 cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. 14 cup grape juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water; add boiling water and 
dissolve. Add sugar, lemon juice and grape juice; strain, 
pour into cold, wet molds and cool. 



Til is recipe may be served in another and very inviting 
form; when the gelatin is firm, force it through a potato 
ricer. Keep on ice until ready to serve. 

FEACH TELLY, 130 CALORIES 
(Individual Eu!e.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
1 teaspoon cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry nine. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 1 '/j tablespoons sugar. 

3 tablespoons peocb juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add boiling 
water and dissolve. Add fruit juice, wine and sugar, strain 
and pour into a cold, wet mold. 

COFFEE JELLY, 629 CAIOEIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 leaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 7 tablespoons thick cream. 

2 tablespoons strong hot coSee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes. Add the hot 
coffee and dissolve; add sugar and strain. Set bow! into 
chopped ice, or ice water to cool, stirring occasionally until 
it tbickens. Then add the cream, and pour into cold, wet 
molds to chill. 

f EPTOnOIDS COFFEE JEXIT, 255 CALORIES <■ 
y, box granulated gelatin. Sugar to taste. 

8 tablespoons Liquid FeptcDoids. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes ; add the boiling 
coffee, sugar and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is dis- 
Bolved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

CREAK TELLY, 330 CALOHIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin, I tablespoon sugar. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons scalded milk. Vanilla to taste. 

4 tablespoons thick cream. 




208 ANIMAL FOODS 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the 
scalded milk and dissolve. Add the sugar^ salt^ cream and 
vanilla. Stir occasionally until the mixture thickens; pour 
into cold, wet after-dinner coflEee cups, or egg cups, and chill. 
Serve with Soft Custard, or cream and sugar. 

PEPTONISEB MILK JELLY, 617 CALORIES x 

(Three Servings.) 

1 pint " specially peptonised Rinds and juice of one fresh 

milk," hot. lemon and orange. 

Yg box gelatin. 2 or 3 tablespoons best St. Croix 

Sugar to taste. rum, or brandy, etc. 

Soak the gelatin in a cup of cold water, pour the hot milk 
over it and add the sugar; stir until dissolved, then throw 
in the lemon and orange rinds. 

Squeeze the juice of the lemon and orange into a glass 
and strain ; stir in the rum or brandy, etc., then mix with the 
milk and gelatin; strain. 

When the mixture has cooled to a syrup so as to be almost 
ready to set, pour into molds or glasses wet in cold water 
and put on ice or. in cold water or in a cold place to harden; 
if it is too warm when poured into the molds, it is apt 
to separate in setting. 

PANOPEPTOK TELLY, 242 CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1 ounce fresh celery (cut 2 dashes pepper. 

in small pieces ) . 6 tablespoons Panopepton. 

% small box best gelatin. 2 cups cold water. 
l^ teaspoon salt. 

Soak the gelatin in one-half cupful of cold water for ono 
hour; put thG water and celery in a double boiler on the 
fire and simmer one-half hour; add the salt, pepper, and 
soaked gelatin and stir until it is dissolved; remove from 
fire, add Panopepton; stir, and strain through linen into a 
jelly-jar, and set near ice. Serve in small quantities. 

1 Without sugar. 



SATS 7ILLT, 1100 CALOBIES 
^ lb. Dromcdaiy Dates. ^ pint orange gelatin jelly, 

% pint strawberry gelatin jelly- 
Pit dates and fill with walauta chopped fine. Pour half 
the strawberry mixture in a mold and when it begins to 
harden, cover with layer of dates and half the orange mix- 
ture. When this hardens repeat the process until all the in- 
gredients are need. Keep on ice until perfectly firm. Serve 
with cream. 

HEAT JEIXISS 

See " Meat Jellies " for recipe. Page 231. 

BTAECHy JXLXIES 
See " Starchy JeUiea " for recipe. Page 344, 

snow PUDDINQ, 834 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
U box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar, 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. ^ cup lemon juice, 
^ cup cold water. Wbitea 3 egga. 

1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

Soften gelatin in cold water, add boiling water and dia- 
Bolve. Add sugar, fruit juice and extract, and etir until 
sugar is dissolved. Set bowl into chopped ice, or ice water, 
to cool, stirring occasionally; wien jelly is quite thick fold 
in the Btiffly-beaten whites of eggs, and put into cold, wet 
molds. Put on ice to harden. \Vhen firm, remove from 
molds and serve with Soft Custard No. 1. 

SHOW PUBDING, 222 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons granulated gelatin, ly^ tablespoons lemon juiM. 

3 tablespoons cold water. 3 tablespoons sugar. 
y, cup boiling water. White 1 egg. 

Make eame ae preceding. 



I 



210 AXIMAL FOODS 

SPAHISH CKEAX, 1055 CAX0BIB8 

1 tablespoon jrranulated gelatin. % teaspoon salt. 

^ cup cold milk or water. 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

21^ cups hot milk. 2 teaspoons sherry .i 

Tolk 3 eg^. Whites 3 eggs beaten very light. 

% cup sugar. 

Soften gelatin in cold milk or water. Beat yolks in top 
of double boiler and add the sugar and gradually the hot milk. 
Place boiler over hot water and stir until custard thickens; 
remove boiler immediately from hot water and add the soft- 
ened gelatin, salt and flavoring, stirring till the gelatin dis- 
solves. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites and pour into cold, 
wet moulds (large or individual) to harden. Serve with 
Soft Custard No. 1, or with Whipped Cream. 

SPAHISH CREAK, 303 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. White 1 egg. 

% cup milk. y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding, and serve with Orange Sauce. 

ORANGE SAUCE, 136 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

Beat white of one egg very light, add two tablespoons sugar 
gradually, beating constantly, then add one and one-half 
tablespoon orange juice and one teaspoon lemon juice. 

BAVARIAN CREAM, 205 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 toaspoon gelatin. 14 tablespoon sugar. 

I tablespoon cold water. % teaspoon vanilla. 

l^ cup milk. y^ cup whipped cream. 
Yolk 1 egg. 

Soak gelatin in cold water 5 minutes. Heat the milk and 
pour into tlio beaten yolk of egg and add this mixture to gela- 

1 CalouUted without aberry. 



GELATIN 311 

tin ; stir until gelatin is dissolved and flavor. Set in ice water 
io cool, beating almost constantly. When it begins to stiffen, 
fold in the whipped cream. Pour into molds. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Note.- — Chocolate may be added by omitting flavoring 
add chocolate to hot milk and dissolve before adding to the 
yolk. 

OBAPE FLXTFF, 957 CALDKIEB 
(Six Servings.) 
V^ box shredded gelatin or 1 cup grape juice. 

1 tablespoon gmnulateU gelutiu. Juioe 1 lemon. 
W cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 
% cup BUgar. 

Soften the gelatin in cold water and dissolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice, 
ttnd strain the gelatin into it. Set in ice and water, and 
btir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
Hdd gradually the well-beaten whites of eggs, and beat until 
ihe whole is very light and stiS enough to hold its shape. 
Pile lightly in glass serving-dish, or mold and serve with 
"flTiipped Cream or Soft Custard. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE, 390 GALOSIEB 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tpaspoonB gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juiee. 
1 iBbleapoon cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
y^ '-Up boiling watpr. Whites 2 eggs. 

y, cup sugar. 

Blend as for Orange Gelatin and set the bowl into chopped 
ice or ice-water to cool; stir occasionally. When jelly is 
quite thick, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of egga. Mix 
well and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice to harden. 
"^^Tien firm, remove by dipping mold quickly in warm water; 
loosen with knife, allowing air to enter. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. 1. 

Note. — Line molds with lady fingers or slices of sponge 
cake and pour in the charlotte. 



nd 
;he 

ng 1 

ce, 'i 



L 



^,_.,l 



212 ANIMAL FOODS 

STRAWBERRY HLOVBSA,^ 8884 CALORIES 

% box shredded gelatin or 1 pint thick cream. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. % cup powdered sugar. 

Vi cup cold water. 1 cup strawberry juice. 
l^ cup boiling water. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water; add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Whip the cream until stiff, and add the pow- 
dered sugar. To the gelatin add the strawberry juice, fold 
the cream in carefully, turn into a wet mold and pack in 
salt and ice for two hours. 

THE KADE-IH-A-MUnrTE DESSERT, 895 CALORIES 

Dissolve one package of Jell-0 in one pint of boiling water. 
Pour into a mould and put in a cold place to harden. When 
set turn out on a plate and serve with whipped cream. Wine 
Jelly can be made by using one-fourth cup of good wine with 
the Lemon Jell-0, and using that much less water. 

PINEAPPLE JELL-O WHIP, 889 CALORIES 

Drain the juice from one cup of canned pineapple. Add 
enough water to make a pint, heat to boiling point, and dis- 
solve in this liquid one package of Lemon Jell-0. When cool 
but still liquid set the dish in ice water and whip to the con- 
sistency of whipped cream. Chop or grate the pineapple and 
fold into the whipped Jell-0, turn into mould to harden or 
pile up in sherbet glasses. Fresh or canned berries can be 
used in place of pineapple. 

BEEF FBEFABATIONS 

BEEP JTTICE^BEEP TEA— * RAW BEEP 

BEEP JUICE 

Composition. The juice of meat contains some protein, in 
addition to salts and extractives. 

Oeneral Principles in CooJcing. From raw meat we can- 
not obtain as much meat juice as is easily taken from the same 
amount of meat when previously heated. 

1 Calculated without fruit. 



BEEF PEEPARATIONS 213 

The reason for this is that the envelope enclosing the 
muscular tissue is a tough substance, which swells and dis- 
soIveB when heated, yielding gelatin, and the liquid portion 
of the meat is easily expressed. If cooked too long the pro- 
tein largely coagulates and the meat loses most of its moisture 
and becomes tough, 

A steak thoroughly heated through swells, and when cut 
the liquid portion flows out readily. One pound of meat 
yields about four ounces of juice. 

Care in Serving. In administering beef juice great care 
should be taken in reheating not to heat it above 136 degrees 
Fahrenheit, at which temperature albumin coagulates in 
flakes. 

Sviistitutes for Beef Juice. Prepared extracts of good 
make may be used to advantage with beef juice to add flavor 
and make it more appetizing. 

Absorption. Beef juice is readily absorbed. It has very 
little food value but is useful where the stimulating effect due 
to its extractives is desirable, 

Cotnparaiive Food Value of Beef Juice and Beef Tea. 
Beef juice, although fourteen times aa rich in protein as 
beef tea, ia raw in flavor, and is rejected by many palates. 
In such a ease, add a small quantity of beef tea or prepared 
beef extract for flavor. 

Thus by the union of two bodies, one rich in protein and 
the other rich in flavor, we have a superior preparation. Pre- 
pare a small quantity at a time, as it does not keep well. 



Composition. Meat treated with hot water contains only a 
small percentage of sohds aud almost no protein, but consists 
chiefly of nitrogenous extractives and soluble mineral matter 
and water. The clear liquid which remains when the coagu- 
lated albumin is strained out of beef tea contains only ex- 
tractive or flavoring substances with the soluble mineral mat- 
ter of tile meat. Therefore it shotdd not be strained, and if 



214 ANIMAL FOODS 

properly prepared the albumin will not be coagulated to so 
great an extent. 

Even in strong beef tea which is carefully made the amount 
of protein present has been found to be less than two per cent. 

Nutritive Value. Beef tea is valuable in the sick room not 
as a food, but because of its appetizing flavor and stimulating 
qualities. 

Beef Extracts are prepared in both liquid and solid form. 
They have very little nutritive value, containing but four to 
five per cent, of protein, but are useful for their flavor and as 
stimulants. They are used to advantage in combination with 
beef juice, adding flavor and making it more palatable and ap- 
petizing. 

BAWBEEF 

UncooJced Meat. Eaw meat is not quite as easily digested 
as cooked meat, and owing to color and flavor is not appetiz^ 
ing, and could not be taken continuously. However, when 
chopped fine, or scraped free from connective tissue, it if^ 
very readily digested and can be served disguised or very 
slightly cooked in many dainty ways. 

Comparative Food Value of Raw Beef and Beef Tea, It 
can readily be seen that raw meat served chopped fine or 
scraped contains all the nutriment of the meat, whereas beef 
tea as seen from the manner of preparation, contains only the 
extractives and soluble mineral matter of meat. 

BEEF JTTICE 

100 grams (3^^ oz.) =25 Calories. 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or top of the round. 
Bemove all fat and broil or warm slightly one or two min- 
utes, to set free the juices; lay on plate and cut meat in 
various directions that more juice may be extracted; then 
squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer or 
potato ricer into a slightly warmed cup. Salt if necessary, 
and serve at once. Prepare only enough to serve, as it doe« 
not keep well. Serve in dainty china cup to disguise color. 
One pound of meat yields four ounces of juice. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 215 

BEEF JUICE (FOB INFAIITS), 20 CALOAIES 

This food 15 very uBcfuI in forma of diarrhcea and dysen- 
tery. A half pound of chopped lean meat is made Into an 
oval, flat maBB, placed on a broiler and slightly browned. 
The Juice ib then expressed with a small meat press, mixed 
with equal parts of barley water and salted to suit the taste. — 
Koplik. 

BEEF ESSENCE 
100 grams (Si/j oz.) =23 Calories. 

Put one-half pound round steak (freed from fat, etc.) 
through a meat chopper; put into small glass fruit jar with 
one tablespoon cold water. Place jar in a kettle of cold 
water, heat gradually and keep at temperature 150 degrees 
>'ahreiiheit (which is 63 degrees below the boiling point of 
water) for two hours. Strain and press the meat to obtain 
all the juice. Season with salt. Serve in slightly heated 
dainty china cup to disguise color. 

Note. — A small piece of raw beef, broiled slightly, then 
cat up and added to above, gives a better davor. 

Liquid thus obtained should be red, with albuminous juice 
in solution and not coagulated ; it may be kept in the refriger- 
ator twelve hours. Serve in small quantity slightly heated ; or 
it may be made into beef tea by diluting with boiling water. 
Beef essence given ice cold and in small amounts is often grate- 
ful to a fever patient. 

LZCI17ID FEPTOnOISS, 28 CALORIES 

Add one tablespoonfu! of Liquid Peptonoids to one-half 
cup of boiling water; add pinch of salt. Sip slowly. This 
will he found particularly grateful in painful affections of 
the throat. 

Note. — To serve cold, pour one tablespoonful Liquid Pep- 
tonoids over B small glass of finely cracked ice. Allow it to 
chill thoroughly and sip slowly. 

BEEF ISA 
% pound Htealc. Salt. 

1 cup cold water. 



216 ANIMAL FOODS 

Wipe steak, remove all fat and cut in small pieces. Put 
in glass fruit jar, add the cold water and let it stand fifteen 
minutes to draw out the juice. Cover jar, using rubber band 
and cover, place on trivet in a kettle and surround with cold 
water. Allow water to heat slowly to 150° F. (no higher), 
and keep at this temperature two hours. Strain and season* 
with salt. Eemove fat with soft paper or bread. Eeheat 
over hot water to 130** F. and serve in heated cups. 

Note. — If possible cool beef tea before serving that fat may 
be removed more thoroughly. 

BEEF TEA 7B0ZEN 

Beef tea may be frozen to the consistency of a water ice. 
.Very grateful to a fever patient. 

BEEF TEA WITH HYDBOCHLOBIC ACID 

100 grams {Zy^ oz.) =25 Calories.! 

Select one-half pound of good beef; remove everything that 
is not clear meat. Chop it fine. Put in pint fruit jar and 
add one cup cold water and five drops dilute hydrochloric acid. 
Stir and set in refrigerator or any cold place for two hours 
to digest. Then strain, season with salt and serve in some 
dainty china cup on account of color. If one should object 
to color, heat the tea in a double boiler just till color changes. 
Do not strain. Beef tea made in this way is recommended 
by physicians for feeble children and patients much weakened 
by sickness. 

ICED PANOPEPTON, 30 CALOBIES 

To a small glass half-full of clean crushed ice add one 
tablespoonf ul of Panopepton ; let it stand a moment and then 
sip slowly. 

PANOPEPTON — HOT, 36 CALOBIES 

To a small teacup two-thirds full of boiling water, add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton, and one teaspoonful of fresh 
lemon juice — a little sugar, if desired — stir. Drink im- 

1 Calculated as beef juice. 



BROTH AND MEAT JELLIES 217 

mediately, sippuig slowly. This gives a pleasant sense of 
warmth when one is chilly, and is excellent in cases where 
light nourishment is required before retiring. 

SC&APED BEEF 
100 grams = 142 Calories. 

Wipe a small piece of steak, cut from top of round. Lay 
it on a meat board, and with a sharp knife scrape off the soft 
part until there is nothing left but the tough, stringy fibers. 
Make it into little flat, round cakes half an inch thick and 
broil them two minutes. Season with salt and pepper if 
allowed. Serve on rounds of buttered toast. Do not add 
salt before cooking, as it toughens the meat. 

BAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

1 ounce scraped beef =40 Calories. 

1 ounce bread ( 1 slice) =73 Calories. 

Prepare meat as for scraped beef, season and spread on 
bread cut very thin. Put slices on top, sandwich-fashion, 
and cut in fancy shapes. Serve in this manner or toast 
daintily. 

BBOTH AHS MEAT TELLIES 

Broih is a liquid containing the juices of soluble parts of 
meat and bone, which have been extracted by long, slow cor>k- 
ing. 

This liqnid is more or less solid when cold, according to the 
gelatinous nature of the ingredients. It varies greatly in 
quantity, according to the manner in which it is prq>ar^l 
and the material nsed« The cheaper, inferior parts of mf^t 
yield more notriment than the expensive cuts. 

Comffmiiym^ Broth contains almost no prothin. It con* 
dsts dufiflj of extractives, and soluble mineral matter %:*:i 
a little gdatiBte. 

Ohjeciitt P^tki and Otn^.ral Vrin/ApUn in CW^ir-g. T:.h 
chief object in making crcth is to f>:*j^.i. ti'-e Uri-e^t y^.%.H 
amount of nctrnaer.: from the rr.eat. This is 'j^ati acrxrr.- 
plisfacd bjr fiaasn'is^z vj^ follow: r.^ r:;!e« : 



218 ANIMAL FOODS 

Cut meat into small pieces. 

Soak in the cold water before heating. 

Use a careful selection and proportion of meat^ bone and 
water. (The usual proportion is one pint of water to one 
pound of meat.) 

Season judiciously. 

Use steam-tight kettle; simmer (not boil), that the juice 
may be fully extracted. 

Make it the day before using, that the fat may be removed 
more easily. 

Long, slow cooking. 

Broth may be made from beef, mutton or chicken. Bice, 
barley, white or whole egg, etc., may be added^ if allowed, to 
increase the quantity of nourishment. 

Comparative Value of Broth and Beef Tea. Broth differs 
from beef tea in that it contains gelatin, besides the extrac- 
tives or flavoring substances and soluble mineral matter that 
are found in beef tea. Gelatin is obtained from meat and 
bones by long, slow cooking, and it is useful in convalescence 
and in febrile states. (Note " Gelatin/^ p. 203.) 

Meat Jellies are a condensed form of broth, which form an 
agreeable way of serving broth to an invalid. Although they 
contain little nourishment they are appetizing and stimulat- 
ing. 

ENEEGY VALTTE OF BBOTH 

Very few analyses of broths are available ; hence no attempt 
has been made to state the calories under each recipe. The 
following table gives an approximate idea of their energj 

value : 



Beef broth 100 grams yield 16.5 Calories. 

Beef juice 100 grama yield 25 Calories. 

Clam bouiHon 100 grams yield 2 Calories. 

Consomme 100 grams yield 12 Calories. 




BROTH 819 

Food tbat may be added for extra natrlmeut 
1 whole egg (average) . ■ ■ ■ 45 grams yield 60 Caioriea. 
White of 1 egg (average) . 25 gtama yield 13 Caloriea. 
Yolk oi 1 egg (average) ■ . 13 grama yield 4S GalorieB. 

1 tablespoon rice 15 grama yield 50 Calories. ^ 

1 tablespoon barley 27 grams yield 90 Calories. 

1 tablespoon aoy bean flour 4 grama yield 30 Calories 
1 tableBpooD dry milk ... 3 grams yield IG Calorieii. 
UTJTTOIT BBOTH 
2 pounds mutton, cut from fore- Speek pepper. 

quarters. 2 tablespoons bailed rice or bar- 

1 quart cold water. ley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Wipe meat, remove skin and fat and cut into small pieces. 
Put in a kettle with bones that have been well broken, add 
cold water and let it stand one-half hour to extract the juices. 
Heat gradually to boiling point, skim, and when partly cooked 
Heaaon with salt and pepper. Simmer four hours, or until 
meat ia tender. Do not allow it to boil. Remove fat and 
strain through a coarse sieve. Serve hot. If broth is made 
the day before it is used, it can be cooled thoroughly and 
the fat be removed easily. In reheating use double boiler. 
Two tablespoons of cooked rice or barley may be added if 
desired. The barley should he soaked over night or several 
hours before cooking. Taste and season before serving, a tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley may be added just before serving 
if desired. 

Note. — For weaker broth, use one quart of water to one 
pound of meat. 

BEEF BROTH 

Prepared same as Mutton Broth. 

BBOTH WITH OBAIKS 
1 quart hot broth. 1 tablespoon rice or barley. 

To the hot broth add the well-washed rice. Simmer slowly 
until the rice ia tender, adding more broth if it evaporates. 
The broth should be strained before using. 



220 ANIMAL FOODS 

CHIOKEN BBOTH 

3^ pounds chicken. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 pints cold water. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons rice. 

■ Thoroughly clean a chicken (see ^'Poultry/' p. 153), re- 
move skin and fat; separate at the joints and wipe with a 
wet cloth. Put in kettle and add the cold water and let 
stand one-half hour. Heat very slowly and simmer three 
hours, or until meat is tender. When half -cooked skim off 
fat and add the rice and seasonings (and if desired, a small 
onion). When meat is tender, skim oflE fat and strain, taste 
and season properly and serve hot. When possible, make 
broth the day before using, that it may be thoroughly cooled 
and the fat removed easily. Eeheat in a double boiler. The 
rice may be cooked, and rubbed through strainer before add- 
ing to broth, or it may be omitted if desired. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broth. 

VEAL BBOTH 

Prepared same as Chicken Broth (use cut from loin or 

knuckle of veal). 

CLAK BBOTH HO. I 

Take five clams, wash and scrub well and put in saucepan 
with cold water to cover. Cook until shells open, remove 
from pan and take out clams. Chop and put them back into 
broth. Cook fifteen minutes. Str^ain through muslin; serve 
hot. If too strong flavor, add hot water. 

N'ote. — If made in large quantity, use two or three clams 
to one cup of water. Clam broth ready for usp is put up in 
bottles and called Bumham^s Clam Bouillon. This broth may 
be frozen to the consistency of a f rapp6. 

CLAH BBOTH HO. II 

% cup clam broth or Burnham's Pepper. 

Clam Bouillon. l^ teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water or milk. 

Blend the clam broth and water (or milk), and heat to the 
boiling point. Season with salt to taste, and if allowed, a 
little pepper and the butter. Serve hot in dainty cups. 



r 



MEAT JELLIES 221 

EQO BROTH 

If one cannot conveniently get protein from meat, a broth 
may be made by means of hot water into which an egg has 
been stirred. Heat three tablespoons of water to not above 
149 degrees P. (below the simmering point), and pour it 
gradually into a raw egg. The liquid is milky if the yolk is 
used; clear if only the white is used. It haa little taste, which 
is an advantage with many patients. This broth may be 
flavored with beef extract or hot prepared broth may be used 
in place of the hot water. 

Note : See discussion of the digestibility of raw egg under 
" Albuminous Beverages," page 118. 

;RE?AKED 3R0TH8 
Prepared mutton broth, beef broth, chicken broth and clam 
broth ready for use and of reliable quality, can now be pur- 
chased at best grocers. The tine contain about Ys pint or 8 
oz. of clear broth, making a good cupful. Additional food 
value can be given to the meat broths thus prepared by the 
addition of either one even teaspoon of patent barley flour, 
arrowroot, farina or two teaspoons of sago. These different 
ingredients should be cooked slowly in the broth for ten or 
twelve minutes. 

MEAT JELLIES 

CALF'S FOOr JELLT 

100 grBmB = 65 Caloriea. 

1 calf's foot. Juice of one lemon. 

I quart cold water. Rind of ^ lemon (yellow part 

3 cupB sherry wind (beat To- only). 

paz). 1^ cup cut or cube sugar. 

Clean calf's foot and" put into the cold water ; bring slowly 
to boiling point, and boil five hours; skim if necessary, while 
cooking. Strain through cheese-cloth and allow it to stand 
until firm and remove the fat. 

Mix lemon juice, wine, the whites and shells of eggs, sugar 
and beat all together until the sugar is dissolved, then add to 

I Sanni vnrietiei msy be made by aubBtitutine llie different llaTOri. blaadr. 
rum. porl wine, chatDpiEDG. oranm and lemon Juice. 



l_ 



222 ANIMAL FOODS 

the jelly. Place on the fire in an enamel stewpan, and stir 
constantly until the mixture is very hot, but not boiling; 
strain through a jelly bag, made of cotton flannel, and allow 
the jelly to drip through same slowly, pour into molds or 
glass jars, and put in cold place to harden. 

Calfs-foot jelly, scientifically prepared in the following 
flavors, sherry, port, rum, cognac and plain, ready for imme- 
diate use, is put up by Gordon & Dilworth, New York. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

3 pounds chicken. 8 peppercorns.' 

1 quart cold water. Salt. 

Prepare chicken as for chicken broth and cut flesh and 
bone into small pieces. Put into saucepan with cold water 
and peppercorns and let stand one-half hour. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point, remove scum and cook five or six hours 
or until meat is very tender and water is reduced to one pint, 
while cooking keep it below the boiling point. Skim fre- 
quently while cooking, strain through double thickness of 
cheese-cloth, season to taste and let stand until firm. Re- 
move fat, reheat and turn into glass fruit jars or individual 
molds and cool ; put in ice box until jellied. 

Additional flavor may be added if desired, a stalk of celery 
or a small piece of bay leaf may be cooked with the chicken. 

Note. — Mutton Broth Jelly may be treated in the same 
way. 

BEEF JELLY 

3 pounds solid meat from the 4 quarts cold water. 

shoulder or shin. 2 teaspoons salt. 

3 pounds bone from same. 

Take off the dried skin and any soft or bloody portion. 
Cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cracked 
bone into an earthen jar. Cover with the cold water. Set 
in slow oven and cook from eight to twelve hours. Strain 
through a colander. Add salt to taste; cool quickly. When 
cold remove the fat. Serve cold as a jelly, or reheat in 
double boiler. 



SOUP 223 

SOTTP AND SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Soup is a light and suitable form of food for the sick. 
There are two classes — those made with meat and those 
without meat. 

The soups with meat are an infusion of meat, flavored with 
salt and some condiment. They are treated in the chapter 
on broths. 

The foundations of soups without meat are milk, vegetables 
and water. They are dainty and nutritious, j^nd an excellent 
way of serving milk and the starch and mineral matter of the 
vegetable. 

They may be served as a luncheon, with crisp crackers, or as 
the first course of a dinner. Serve daintily in heated bouillon 
cups, partly filled, on small plate and doily. 

Oeneral Rule for blending: 

(a) Prepare vegetables, cook and strain. 

(6) Prepare cream sauce: Melt butter, add the flour and 
gradually pour on the scalded milk or water. Cook thor- 
oughly. 

(c) Blend (a) and (6). Season, strain and serve imme- 
diately. 

In the preparation of these soups great care must be taken 
that the starch of the vegetable and of the flour used in the 
thickening is thoroughly cooked. Cooking temperature of 
starch is 212 degrees Fahrenheit. 

CEEAX OF ASPAEAGTTS SOTTP, 313 CALOEIES 

(Individual Kule.) 

^ bundle asparagus. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt. 

14 tablespoon butter. Pepper. 

(a) "Wash the asparagus and cook in boiling salted water, 
boiling gently thirty minutes. Take from the water, cut off 
the tips and put them into the serving dish; press the re- 
mainder through a colander. 

(6). Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and 



224 ANIMAL FOODS 

pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stir- 
ring often. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; reheat, season to taste, strain over tips 
and serve at once with crisped wafer crackers. 

Note.-^For individual quantity use one-half recipe. 

CBEAX OF COSJT SOITP, 488 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup com. 1 cup milk. 

^ cup cold water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

^ slice onion. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Salt and pepper. Yolk 1 egg. 

(a) Chop corn, add water and simmer .twenty minutes; 
rub through a sieve. 

(b) Scald milk with onion; remove onion. Melt butter, 
add flour and gradually pour on milk. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; cook thoroughly, season to taste with 
salt and pepper and pour onto the beaten yolk. When well 
blended, serve hot. 

Note. — The yolk of egg may be omitted. 

CBEAX OF CEIEEY SOUP, 320 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

4 stalks celery. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup b /iling water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Salt and pepper. 1 cup rich milk. 

(a) "Wash and scrape the celery and cut into small pieces^ 
add the water and cook until very tender and soft. Renew 
the water if it boils away. Mash the celery in the water in 
which it was cooked. 

(&) Scald milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly, 
stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; season to taste; strain and serve im- 
mediately with croMons or crisped crackers. 



SOVT 985 

CSEAM OF CELES? SOtTP, 326 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
6 atalka celery, SpMk cayenne pepper, anlt. 

L slice onion. ^ teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water. • 1 cap hot milk, ^ teaspoon gluten flour. 

Boil, mash and strain the first three ingredienta, add the 
liot milk or cream. Melt the butter, add the fiour and pour 
on gradually the hot eoup stock; season and cook thoroughly. 

CSEAK OT ;EA soup, 315 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% can peaa. ^, cup milk. 

^i teaspoon sugar. " '-*"' 

% cup cold water. 
Salt and pepper. 

(a) Drain peas from their liquor, rinse thoroughly, add 
sugar and cold water and simmer twenty minutes. Rub 
through a sieve; reheat. 

(6) Scald milk. Melt butter, add flour and pour on grad- 
ually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stirring carefully. 

CREAK OP PKA FLOUR SOUP P. 203 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon pea flour. Salt. 

1 cup cold milk. Pepper. 

Put the pea flour into a saucepan and pour on gradually 
the cold milk. Cook over direct heat, stirring constantly 
until flour is tlioroughly cooked (about 10 or 15 minutes). 
Season with salt and pepper, serve hot. Bean, lentil, rice 
or barley flour may be used in tlie same way. 

Note. — In making a large tjuantity use double boiler. 

Cook over direct heat 10 minutes and place over hot water. 

CREAM OF OITION SOUP, 397 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 onion. % tablespoon butter. 

1 cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

Cut onion in small pieces and scald in milk. Melt butter, 
add flour and add graduaUy the milk mixture and cook well. 
Season with salt and pepper and strain. 




226 ANIMAL FOODS 

ONION SOUP (POB THE DIABETIC), 30 CALOEIES 

One Bermuda or three green onions boiled until tender in 
stock or water ; mash and strain. Add one-half teaspoon Gum 
Gluten Flour, one-half teaspoonful butter and a little chopped 
parsley. One tablespoon of cream, if desired.' 

CBEAX OF POTATO SOUP, 220 CALO&IES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

y^ slice onion. % teaspoon salt. 

y^ cup mashed potatoes. Pepper. 
^ tablespoon butter. 

(a) Scald milk with onion in it, remove onion and add milk 
slowly to potatoes. (6) Melt butter, add flour and pour on 
gradually the hot mixture. Cook thoroughly and season to 
taste. A little celery salt may be added if desired. A little 
finely-chopped parsley may be sprinkled over top of soup. 

CBEAX OF BICE SOUP, 802 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon rice. Stalk celery. 

1 cup idilk. % bay leaf. 

% tablespoon butter. Salt. 

% small onion. Pepper. 

Scald the milk, add the well-washed rice and cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes, covered closely. 

Melt butter in saut6 pan, add the sliced onion and cook till 
tender, but not brown. Add celery sliced, and turn into 
scalded milk; add the bay leaf, cover and let stand on back 
of stove fifteen minutes. Strain, season with salt and pepper, 
reheat and serve. 

Note. — If soup is too thick, add a little heated milk. 

TOMATO SOTTP (WITH BBOTH), 110 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

yg cup strained tomatoes. 1 cup water or stodc 

14 tablespoon butter. 14 teaspoon salt. 

14 slice onion. Speck pepper. 
1 tablespoon flour. 



SOUP 237 

(a) Cook and Btrain tomatoes, obtaining one-half cup 
juice. 

(6) Melt butter, add the onion and brown slightly; add 
the flour; pour on gradually the boiling water or stock. 

Biend (a) and {b) ; cook thoroughly, Beason with salt and 
pepper, strain and serve. 

Kote. — Two tablespoons of cream may be added. 

Beef or mutton broth strained may be used in place of 
water if desired. 

CILEAU OF TOaUTO SOUP, 224 CAIOEIEB 
(Two ServiDga.} 
V, cup toniatoes. Ya teaspoon butter. 

1 slice onion. >^ teaspoon gluten flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt, pepper. 

Stew and strain the tomatoes and onion, reheat and add 
a tiny pinch of soda. When effervescing subsides add milk. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and pour in gradually the hot 
stock. Season and cook thoroughly, 

KOCE BISQtTE SOUF^ 324 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup tomatopB. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Vig t«HHpoon Boda. ^ tablespoons flour or corn- 

Salt and pepper. starch, 

I cup milk. 

(a) Steam tomatoes until soft enough to strain juice; 
strain, add soda and allow gases to pass off. This prevents 
the acid of the tomato curdling the milk. 

(&) Scald milk ; melt butter in quart size saucepan, add the 
flour and pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thor- 
oughly, stirring carefully. 

Blend (ffl) and (b) ; reheat, season to taste, strain and 
serve immediately with croutons or crackers. 

SSIEJ) FETJIT SOUP, SOS CALOBISS >- 
% cup dried apricots. 1 cup cold water. 

'A <^up prunes. Sugar to taste. 

■WlUioue iDgar. 



228 ANIMAL FOODS 

Pick over and wash fruit .until perfectly clean. Cook in 
the water until very soft. Strain and squeeze out all the 
juice; sweeten to taste. Thicken if liked. 

Thickening. — 1 slightly rounding teaspoon rice flour to 
1 cup liquid. Cook twenty minutes to remove raw taste of 
starch. 

PANOPEPTON BOUILLON -^ HOT, 80 CALORIES 

Put one tablespoonful of Panopepton into a small teacup; 
fill the cup nearly full of boiling water, and flavor to taste 
with celery salt, or plain salt and pepper; stir, and sip slowly. 
This is a very nourishing and pleasantly stimulating drink. 

VICTOBIA SOITP (WITH BBOTH), 619 CALO&IES 

(Two Servings. ) 

^ cup lean chicken meat. 1 cup |ich milk. 

1 cup strong chicken broth. % ciip cracker crumbs* 

Yz teaspoon salt. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Pepper. 

Soak the crumbs in a little of the milk. Cook yolks of 
eggs in hot water until hard. Chop the chicken, mix with the 
soaked cracker crumbs, press the hard-cooked yolks through 
a coarse strainer, add the seasonings and the broth and cook 
all together five minutes over direct heat or one-h^lf hour in 
double boiler. Serve hot. 

CONSOMME 

Make a beef or any broth according to the strength re- 
quired. While cooking skim frequently, and when reduced 
to one-third of its quantity take from saucepan and strain; 
season well, cool quickly and remove fat. Return to sauce- 
pan, add a few thin slices of onion and one-half pound of 
lean beef chopped fine and clear. 

To Clear Soup, To each quart of stock add the slightly 
beaten white and broken shell of one egg and a few shavings 
of lemon rind. Place on front of range, and stir constantly 
until boiling point is reached; boil two minutes. Set back 
where it may simmer twenty minutes ; remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 229 

OYSTEE SOTJP 

See chapter " Oysters ^* for recipe. Pages 171-172. 

OTSTEB STEW 

See " Oysters *' for recipe. Page 173. 

CLAU SOTJP 

See chapter " Clams ** for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAH BOTJUXOK 

See chapter " Clams '^ for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAH BOXniLOK BISQUE 

See chapter " Clams '^ for recipe. Page 175. 

MEAT SOUPS 

Foundation for same, see chapter " Broths/' Page 219. 



SOTTP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

CBISPED CRACKEBS 
1 Saltine=3l5 Calories. 

Split common crackers or use saltines. Put in pan and 
bake until thoroughly heated. Serve plain or buttered: 
slightly. 

TOASTED CBACEEBS 

Butter crackers, put in pan and bake until a delicate brown. 
Serve on small plate with doily. 

CBOUTONS 

1 ounce (1 slice) bread ^73 Calories. 

Take a slice of stale bread about half an inch thick, cut 
into half -inch cubes ; put them in a shallow pan and dry thor- 
oughly, then brown delicately. Stir often to brown evenly. 



230 ANIMAL FOODS 

Serve on small plate with doily. A little butter may be 
spread on the bread if desired. 

NOODLES FOB SOTJP, 596 CALORIES 

1 egg. 6 ounces Hoyt's gluten flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat the egg very light, add the milk and gluten flour. 
EoU very thin and cut in stravirs. Cook in any soup. 



CHAPTEE X 
VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

The important food products derived from the vegetable 
kingdom are the Cereals, Legumes — Boots and Tubers — 
Green Vegetables — Fruits — Nuts — Fungi — Lichens. 

Composition. Vegetable or plant foods contain the five 
proximate principles, namely, proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
water and mineral matter. In this they resemble animal 
foods. The food principles in the two classes are, however, 
in different proportions, animal foods being rich in proteins 
or fats, and seldom containing carbohydrate in appreciable 
amounts; while vegetable foods are, as a rule, rich in carbo- 
hydrates, and poor in proteins and fats. 

These differences are clearly shown in the following table : 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 

% % % 
Lean round of beef. Free from all vis- 
ible fat 23.2 2.5 

Lean round of beef. Very fat 16.1 23.1 .... 

Wheat flour (entire wheat) 13.8 1.9 71.9 

Potatoes 1.8 0.1 14.7 

Apples 1.6 2.2 66.1 

The legumes and most nuts are exceptional in containing 
high percentages of protein or fat or both, but unlike meats, 
they also contain a very considerable amount of carbohydrate, 
as shown by the following analyses : 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 

% % % 

Beans, dried 22.6 1.8 59.6 

Peas 24.6 1.0 62.0 

Almonds 21.0 54.9 17.3 

Walnuts 16.6 63.4 16.1 

231 



232 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Protein. (1) Gluten of wheat and some of the other 
cereals. (2) Legumin found in legumes. (3) Vegetable 
albumin as found in some vegetables. 

Carbohydrates of Vegetables include — starch, sugar, veg- 
etable gums and cellulose. 

Fats of Vegetables are in the form of oils and are similar 
in composition to animal fats, but are more easily digested 
and equal in nutritive value. 

Water. Dry vegetable foods, such as cereals, dried beans 
and peas, nuts, dried fruits, etc., do not, as a rule, contain 
as much water as animal foods, but fresh vegetables and fruits 
contain frequently from 90 per cent, to 95 per cent, of water. 

This gives them a low nutritive value compared with their 
bulk. In cooking, water is added to most dry vegetable foods, 
so that when served they resemble fresh or succulent vegetable 
foods in this respect. 

Mineral Matter, All vegetable foods contain valuable ash 
constituents. In cereals, these are largely in the outer part 
of the grain, and are lost if the entire grain is not utilized. 
Thus polished rice is much poorer in ash constituents than 
unpolislied; and white flour than entire wheat flour. Fresh 
vegetables and fruits are desirable in the dietary for their 
salts and organic acids. 

Vitamines. The leafy vegetables are one source of the fat- 
soluble vitamine, the lack of which prevents growth and proper 
nutrition. The water-soluble vitamine is found in whole 
grains, legumes and green vegetables. Fresh vegetables and 
fruits are also valuable for their antiscorbutic ^ properties. 

Digestibility, Vegetable foods are less easily digested than 
animal foods, owing to their complex composition, and espe- 
cially to the intimate mixture of the nutrients with cellulose. 
This prevents the digestive ferments acting readily upon the 
food-stuffs so that they are digested more slowly and less com- 
pletely than animal foods. Although cellulose is indigestible, 
its presence under normar conditions in proper amounts, is 
advantageous, but it should be thoroughly softened by cook- 
ing, except in the case of tender young vegetables such as 
lettuce. 

1 See section on Vitamines. oage 22. 



CEREALS 233 

Com/paraiive Yalue of Animal and Vegetable Diets. An 
animal diet is concentrated and easily digested. If the ani- 
mal foods taken are eggs and milk, no serious objection can 
be urged against them, except that they lack bulk. The food 
ie 80 fully absorbed that the large intestine has no stimulus 
to action and no material for its muscles to act upon, and 
serious complications are likely to arise from constipation. 
If the animal food is largely meat, it is undesirable, not ouly 
for the reason above mentioned, but because excessive quan- 
tities of nitrogenous extractives are taken, which are likely 
to cause uric acid disorders and other disturbances, and also 
because important mineral salts are lacking (such as calcium, 
which carnivorous animals get by eating bone) ; and because 
the acids formed from the protein (phosphoric and sulphuric) 
tend to deprive the body of salts already present in the tissues. 

A strict vegetable diet, on the other hand, while free from 
these objections, is necessarily very bulky, owing to the high 
percentages of water and cellulose, and to the fact that extra 
allovaoce must be made because it is less perfectly absorbed. 
A'egetable proteins are not of as high biological value as animal 
proteins, and, unless special care is taken, a vegetable diet is 
also likely to be low in protein. Legumes and nuts must form 
a considerable part of the dietary to prevent this. \Vhen eggs, 
milk and milk products are added to the vegetable foods, the 
diet becomes mixed, and these objections no longer hold. 

An Ideal Diet contains a mistnre of animal and vegetable 
foods, so that protein, fat, carbohydrate and mineral mattei" 
are supplied in proper proportions and in available forms, and 
sufficient bulk is afforded for proper intestinal action. 

CESEALS 



Wherever it is possible to grow grains, they are staples of 
man's diet. No food products of the vegetable kingdom equal 
them in importance. They are cheaply and easily grown, and 
contain all the food principles in unusually good proportion. 



234 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

They can be kept for long periods, are not difficult to cook, 
and furnish a palatable and digestible article of diet. Cereals 
alone supply nearly one-fourth of the total food in a large 
number of the American families. Wheat, com, rye, oate, 
barley, rice and buckwheat are in commonest use. 

The natural grain is surrounded by an indigestible husk 
which is always removed. Grains simply hulled or husked, 
and slightly crushed are called groats or grits; more finely 
crushed, they constitute meal ; ground to a powder and sifted 
they form flour. 

Composition. Cereals contain all the food principles, with 
considerable cellulose, especially in the outer skin, which forms 
bran in milling. They are comparatively dry materials, hav- 
ing an average water content of about 10 per cent. The pro- 
tein content is fairly high, averaging 12 per cent.-13 per cent^ 
The fat is never large in amount, and varies within wide 
limits, being greatest in corn and oats and their products, and 
lowest in rice. 

The nutrients in largest proportion are the carbohydrates, 
which frequently constitute 75 per cent, of the whole. The 
ash content is as large as in most common food materials, and 
some of the grains, as oats and wheat, are especially valuable 
for their soluble phosphates of calcium, potassium, magne- 
sium, etc. 

The chemical composition of some of the most common 
cereals is shown in the following table : 

Carbohydrates 
Water Protein Fat Starch, etc. Crude Fiber Aah 
Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent 

Barley 10.9 12.4 1.8 69.8 2.7 2.4 

Com (maize) ... 9.3 9.9 2.8 74.9 1.4 1.5 

Oats 11.0 11.8 5.0 59.7 9.5 8.0 

Rice 12,4 7.4 0.4 79.2 0.2 0.4 

Wheat (spring) ..10.4 12.5 2.2 71.2 1.8 1.9 

It will be seen that corn is relatively rich in fat; oats in 
both protein and fat; rye and wheat in protein with a mod- 
erate amount of fat; rice is notably free from crude fiber 
and fat, and also very low in ash. 

> For further information, see * 'Cereal Breakfast Foods," Fanner's Bvlto- 
tin No. 249, Agricultural Dept., Washington, D. C. 



CEREALS 335 

Cereal Breakfast Foods are very Bimilar in composition to 
tlie grains from which they are made, except that finely milled 
cei'eals contain little cellulose arid are relatively poor in ash. 

Macaroni is much like wheat breakfaBt foods in composition 
and food value. 

Principles in Cooking. Cooking improves cereals in many 
ways. For the average person, proper cooking has almost as 
much to do with the nutriment finally obtained as the pro- 
portions of nutrients originally present. Flavor and appear- 
ance are improved, with the gain in digestibility that comes 
from appetizing foods which stimulate the flow of digestive 
juices. Cooking to convert nutrients into more digestible 
forms, is very important in the case of cereals which contain 
80 much starch; and since the starch iu these foods is sur- 
rounded by cell-walls of crude fiber (largely cellulose) upon 
which the digestive juices are unable to act, these walls must 
be broken down. Part of this disintegration may be accom- 
plished in milling, and part by thorough raaBtieation but com- 
plete digestion of the starch is assured only by thorough 
cooking. 

Parching is one of the simplest methods of cooking grains. 
The invisible moisture in the cells is expanded by the heat, 
and the cell walla burst. Some of the starch is also made 
soluble or changed to dextrin by this process. The digestibil- 
ity of protein seems to be lessened by cooking at high tem- 
peratures, bat the starch can be made almost perfectly di- 
gestible. 

The softening of cellulose i3 more perfectly accomplished 
by cooking for a long time in the presence of a large amount 
of moisture, as in steaming, or cooking with water or milk 
in a double boiler. The glutinous material which surrounds 
the starch grains and prevents their digestion is disintegrated 
BO that the digestive juices can act. In general, the more 
crude fiber a cereal contains, the longer it should be cooked. 
Reference to the table (p. 234) shows that oata requires 
more cooking than rice; whole or partially crushed grains 
than finely ground ones. There k danger in undercooked 
cereals, not only of loss of valuable nutriment thion^ iwixait 



1 



236 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

of digestion, but in irritation of the alimentary tract. This 
should be especially remembered in preparing partially cooked 
breakfast foods. 

When cereals are cooked in water some of it is absorbed, 
and soluble substances in the food pass into the remaining 
water. If this is thrown away, as when rice is boiled in a 
large quantity of water and subsequently drained dry, a con- 
siderable part of the nutriment is lost. Eice water frequently 
contains enough dissolved starch to form a jelly on cooling. 
For this reason steaming is a preferable method. Practical 
application of the fact that certain nutrients in cereals are 
soluble is made in the preparation of all kinds of cereal 
waters and starchy jellies. (See Recipes, pp. 124-244.) 

Gruels are thin porridges made from flour or other finely 
ground grain products, with either water or milk. They are 
cooked for a long time until the starch grains are thoroughly 
ruptured and the starch passes into a condition of " colloidal " 
or semi-solution. It is then much more easily acted on by 
the digestive juices. The time of cooking should therefore be 
conscientiously kept by the clock. 

By passing the material through a cheese-cloth or sieve, the 
coarser, undissolved portions are removed, and the smooth 
product does not irritate weakened digestive organs; hence 
this method is desirable for invalids and young children. 

In cooking all cereal products, the following points should 
be observed : Use a double boiler. Observe the correct pro- 
portions of cereal, water and salt. 

Cook at boiling temperature (212® F.). 

Watch the time by the clock, and always cook the full time 
prescribed, preferably longer. 

Serve attractively. 

Improper cooking and poor serving are largely responsible 
for unpopularity of cereal foods. 

Digesiibility. The digestibility of cereals is greatly in- 
fluenced by the mode of preparation and the thoroughness of 
insalivation. For the normal healthy person cereal foods are 
very wholesome. In general, about 90 per cent, or more of 



r 



CEREALS 237 

the organic matter is HSBiinilated. The carbohydrates are 
most completely digested ; the protein showB a wide variation, 
hut is lees perfectly assimilated than the other nutrients, 
owing partly to the fact that it is often hardened in cooking 
and partly that it is intimately bound up with cellulose in 
the bran coats. For this reason white flour shows a higher 
<3egree of digestibility for protein, than do whole wheat prepa- 
rations. 

Nulriiive Value. Cereals supply actual digestible nutri- 
ments to the body more cheaply than any other class of foods . 
€xcept the dried legumes. All animal foods, especially meats, 
are more expensive, even as sources of protein, than cereals. 
A glance at their composition shows that they are chiefly fuel 
foods, because of their high carbohydrate content. Their 
coat varies with the coat of labor and fuel in preparing the 
food. The comparatively expensive ready-to-eat breakfast 
foods do not yield any extra nutritive value. Their only ad- 
vantages are pleasant flavor and ease of serving. Cereal 
products yield on the average between 1600 and 1700 caloriea 
per pound. Thus: 

For the Diabetic. To sweeten cereals sugar must be re- 
placed by sweetina or saccharin. It is many times sweeter 
than sugar but it has no food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, 
page 249. 

1 lb. flour fumisheB 1665 calories. 

1 lb. entire wheat flour furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. com meal furnishes 1Q55 calories. 

1 lb. corn^tBTch furnishes 1QT5 calories. 

^B 1 lb. wheatlet furnishes IQSS calories. 

^^^ 1 lb. homing furnishes 16S0 calories. 

^H 1 lb. granulated com meal furnishes 16GS calories. 

^^^ 1 lb. wheat germ furnishes 1805 calories. 

1 lb. tapioca furnishes 1650 calories. 

Care of Cereals. Cereals must be kept in a cool, dry place; 
warmth will favor the development of the maggot egga; and 
moisture, wlien absorbed, makes them musty. 



1 



238 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

. OBTTELS 

ABEOWBOOT OBTnBL, 196 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons arrowroot. 1 cup boiling water or milk. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

Sugar, lemon juice, wine or brandy as required. 

Blend the arrowroot and cold water to a smooth paAe. 
Add to the boiling water or milk. Cook in double boiler two 
hours. Add salt. Strain and serve hot. 

Arrowroot is the purest form of starch, and beneficial in 
case of diarrhoea if not given too hot. 

BABLEY OBTJEL, 212 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. 1 cup scalded milk. 

2 tablespoons cold milk. Salt. 

Blend the barley flour with the cold milk and stir into 
the scalding milk. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 
Season with salt to taste, and add sugar if desired. Strain. 

BABLEY OBTJEL OB JELLY, 114 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. ^ cup milk (if desired). 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Blend carefully the barley flour and the cold water; add 
gradually to the boiling water and cook twenty minutes. Add 
milk and salt to taste, reheat to boiling point, strain and 
serve or bottle for keeping. 

Note. — For jelly omit the milk and strain. 

BICE OB OAT OBXTEL 

Eice or oat gruel may be made in same way as Barley 
Gruel No. I or II, using the prepared flour for the purpose. 

BABLEY OBTJEL (WITH BBOTH), 132 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 cups beef broth. 2 tablespoons cold water. 
2 tablespoons barley flour. ^4 teaspoon salt. 

^ Calculated with milk. 



Mix barley flour and salt with the cold water to form a 
smooth paste. Add gradually to the boiling atodc and boil 
one-half hour. Strain and serve very hot. 

CEAGKEB OKTTEL, 243 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
2 tablespoona sifted cracker 1 cup scalded milt. 

crumba. 
^ teaspoon salt. 

Pour hot milk gradually onto cracker crumbs, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook in double boiler five minutes or two minutes 
over direct heat. 

Note. — Before preparing crumbs, crackers may be baked 
in a slow oven until a delicate brown; or graham crackers 
may be used. A convenient way to prepare the crumbs is to 
put them several times through a meat chopper and then sift. 

FI^OUR QRUEL OE THICKEHED IDLE, 212 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup acnided milk. Speck salt. 

y^ cup cold milk. I dozen raisina. 

'/i tableapoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with the cold milk to make 
a smooth mixture, and stir into the scalding milk. Cook in 
a double boiler one-half hour or on back of stove in a sauce- 
pan. 

Stone and quarter the raisins, then add water enough to 
cover; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. Add to 
gruel just before serving. Add salt. Strain and serve, or it 
may be eaten with the raisins in it. 

Note. — This gruel may be made without the raisins. 
Clever use raisins in bowel troubles. 

^B TAEinA OETTEL, 102 CAIOEIES 

^^ (Individual Eule.) 

t^ tablespoon farina. '/^ cup scalded milk. 

14 cup cold water. Suit. 

14 cup boiling water. 



240 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Mix the farina with the cold water, add to the boiling 
water and boil thirty minntes. Add the scalding milk. 
Taste and season properly. A little sugar may be added if 
desired, or an egg may be beaten and the gruel poured into it. 

SOY BEAN GEXJEL, 30 CALORIES 

1 level tablespoon soy flour. 4 cups boiling water. 

Pour water gradually on the flour and cook fifteen min- 
utes. Season with salt. As this flour contains no starch it 
settles on standing. This may be overcome by adding one to 
two heaping teaspoons of barley, oat or wheat gruel flour be- 
fore cooking. This adds 0.6 to 1.2 per cent starch to the 
gruel, also slightly increases the percentage of protein. One 
to four tablespoons soy flour may be used to one quart of 
water. 

INDIAN HEAL OBTTEL, 48 CALOEIES i 

1 tablespoon Indian meal. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Yz tablespoon flour. 2 cups boiling water. 

^ teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Blend the meal, flour and salt with the cold water to make 
a smooth paste, and stir into the boiling water. Boil gently 
one hour and a half. Dilute with hot water, milk or creanL 
Strain. 

OATMEAL OETJEL NO. I, 125 CALOEIES 

^ cup coarse oatmeal. l*^ cup boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Add oatmeal and salt to the boiling water, and cook four to 
five hours in a double boiler, adding more water if necessary. 
Strain and dilute with hot milk to make it of the right con* 
sistency. Reheat and serve. 

Xote. — Sugar, and a little port wine may be added if al* 
lowed and desired. 

1 Without milk or cream. 



GUV ELS 341 

OATUEAL QEUXL, 'SQ. II, 70 CALOBIEB i 

Vi cup rolled oata. 14 teaspoon salt. 

ll^ cup boiliiig water. Milk or cream. 

Mix the oats, water and salt in top of double boiler. Cook 
over direct heat five minutes and then over hot water one 
hour. Strain, bring to the boiling point and add milk or 
cream kb desired. 

OATHEAL GRUEL NO. HI, 110 CALORIES i 

% cup coarse oatmeal. Salt. 

2 cups water. Milk. 

Pound the oatmeal in a mortar until it ia mealy, then put 
it into a tumbler and fill it with cold water. Stir, and pour 
off the mealy water into a saucepan. Fill tumbler again, stir 
and pour off, and repeat until the above quantity of water is 
exhausted. Boil the oatmeal water thirty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Season with salt to taste. Thin with milk or 
«ream to desired consistency. 

EQ8 AND SHEBET QBTIEL, 3SS CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 egg. 1 tulilespoon Hugnr. 

1 wineglass aherry. Grating of nutmeg, 

1 t«aapoan lemon juice. 1 cup smooth hot gruel. 

Beat the egg; add wine, lemon, nutmeg and pour on the 
hot gruel. 

CAUDLE, 344 CALORIES = 
y, cup Scotch oatmeal. Juice % lemon. 

2 quarts water. Sugar, cinnamon, brandy, or 
Salt to taste. wine. 

Boil oatmeal, water and salt four or five hours. Strain; 
jf too thick add a little hot water and whip it with a wooden 
spoon. Remove seeds from raisins, cook a short time in hot 
water, and add raisins and water to above. Add lemon juice, 
and sugar, cinnamon, brandy or ■wine to taste. 



242 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

FLOUE BALL OE BOILED OE BEOWNED FLOUB OBUEL (FOB 

TEETHING CHILDEEN) 

Tie one cup of wheat flour in a thick cloth, and boil it in 
one quart of water for three hours ; remove the cloth and ex- 
pose the flour to the air, or heat until it is hard. Orate from 
it when wanted. Put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
new milk, and stir over the fire until it comes to a boil ; add 
a pinch of salt and a tablespoon of cold water, and serve. 
This gruel is excellent for children afflicted with summer com- 
plaint. Or brown a tablespoon of flour in the oven, or on 
top of the stove in a baking tin ; feed a few pinches at a time 
to a child, and it will often check diarrhoea. 

BBEAEFAST FOODS 

Fruits served with breakfast foods make them more ap- 
petizing. 

Follow directions on package for preparing patent or pre- 
pared cereals, allowing double the given time for cooking. 

HASTY PirBBING OE COENMEAL HTTSH, 182 CALOBIES t 

(Individual Eule.) 

l^ cup cornmeal. % cup cold milk or water. 

Yz tablespoon flour. ^ cup boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix the meal, flour and salt with the cold milk or water; 
when smooth, stir into the boiling water. Cook in a double 
boiler one hour or more; or over direct hea^ '^'C-half hour. 
Serve with cream and sugar, turn into tins to ^ool if wanted 
for sauteing. Cut into slices, dip in flour and saut6 in drip- 
pings or butter. 

SOY BEAN BEEAKFAST FOOI), 480 CALOEIES.i 

1 cup soy flour. 1 gram saccharin dissolved in wa- 

Milk or water. ter. 

Salt. 

Moisten the flour with milk or water to make a smooth 

1 Oalculated without milk or cream. 



I BREAKFAST FOODS 243 

paste, add a pinch of salt, and one gram saccharin which 
should be dissolved before adding. Boil one and one half 
hour in a double boiler and serve with rich cream. 

HOmUT AND DATES, 378 GALOKIES 

% oup flnc hominy. 
' 1^ cupe boiling water. 

Put the hominy, water and salt in top of double boiler and 
cook two hours. Add more boiling water if mush seems stiff 
and thick. Stone and chop the dates and add to the mueh 
I about three minutes before serving. Dales are delicious 
served with rice or combined with any cereal. 
OATIIEAL XITSH fDB CHILDEEir AHO INVALIDS, 880 CALOEIES 
(Four Setving3.j 
1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water. 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Put the oatmeal and salt in a double boiler, pour on the 
boiling water and cook three or four hours. Remove the 
cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to let the 
steam escape, li the water in the lower boiler be strongly 
salted, the oatmeal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar 
or salt and cream or milk. 

Note. — Baked sour apples, apple sauce and apple jelly are 
delicious oaten with oatmeal. They should be served with the 
mush, and sugar and cream poured over the whole. They 
^ive the acid flavor which so many crave in the morning. 
Coarse oatmeal is not advisable in any form of water brash, 
acidity or bowel irritations. It often caasea eruptions on the 
skin in warm weather. 

BOILED KICE 
See " Rice Puddings " for recipe. Page 297. 



^^See 



STEAMED EICE 
" Eice Puddings " for recipe. Page 298. 



244 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

STABCHY JELLIES 

BARLEY JELLY, 150 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

3 tablespoons pearl barley. ^ teaspoon salt. 
1 quart cold water. 

Soak barley over night, drain and add the quart of fresb 
water; add salt; and cook in double boiler steadily for four 
hours down to one pint, adding water from time to time; 
strain through muslin. When cold this makes a thick jelly. 
Two tablespoons dissolved in eight ounces of warmed and 
sweetened milk may be given at single feeding for infants. 

Xote. — Oatmeal wheaten grits and rice grains may be used 
in same way. 

Jelly made with Barley Flour, see Barley Gruel, p. 238. 

BICE JELLY, 181 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
11/2 tablespoons rice. % cup milk. 

1 cup cold water. 1 white of egg. 

Speck salt. 

Wash the rice and soak in cold water two hours, drain off 
the water and add the milk, cook in double boiler one and one- 
half hours. Strain through a fine sieve. Pour into molds, 
chill and serve witli fruit juice or cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY, 200 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

4 tablespoons pearl tapioca. % cup boiling water. 
1 cup cold water. Speck salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water three hours; add boiling 
water and salt; cook in double boiler two and one-fourth 
hours. Serve hot, plain with cream, wine and powdered 
sugar, or flavor while hot with lemon juice, and chill. 

CORNSTARCH JELLIES 

See " Cornstarch Pudding " for recipe. Page 295. 



MACARONI 846 

KACABONI 

BOILED ICAGABONI, 98 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup macaroni. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 cups boiling water. Cream or milk. 

Break macaroni into one-inch pieces, put into a strainer 
and rinse with cold water. Cook in boiling salted water 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Strain, pour a little cold 
water over it to prevent pieces from adhering; add cream, 
reheat and season with salt; or serve with White or Tomato 
Sauce and grated cheese. 

WHITE SATTGE, 152 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

yg cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

Yg tablespoon butter. ^ teaspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, remove from stove and 
add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on gradually the 
hot milk, stirring constantly while blending. Cook thor- 
oughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season with 
salt. 

TOHATO SATTGE, 93 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yq cup strained tomato juice. ^ tablespoon flour. 

Yg tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes. Melt the butter and remove from 
stove, add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on grad- 
ually the hot tomato, stirring constantly while blending ; cook 
thoroughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season 
with salt and pepper. 

BAXED HACARONI 

1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese = 62 Calories. 

Fill a buttered baking-dish with alternate layers of maca- 
roni. White Sauce and cheese; then cover with buttered 

^Without milk or cream. 



246 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

cracker crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 
Tomato Sauce may be substituted for White Sauce if desired. 

NOODLES, 596 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 egg, well beaten. 6 ounces Hoyt's gluten flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat eggy add milk and gradually add the gluten flour. 
Roll out and cut in thin strips. Serve with any soup. 

BOILED NOODLES or NOODLES ATT GRATIN 

1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese = 62 Calories. 

Put the noodles into cold, salted water ; cook at least forty- 
five minutes after it comes to boil, or boil until it is tender. 
Season with pepper and butter. Serve with white sauce or 
place the noodles in a baking-dish in alternate layers with 
grated cheese, having cheese form the top layer; season with 
pepper and butter. Pour over the mixture the water in which 
the noodles were cooked; or, if preferred, cream or stewed 
tomatoes may be used to moisten. 

BUTTERED CRACKER CRTTHBS, 201 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon butter. ^ cup cracker crumbs. 

Melt butter and add cracker crumbs that have been rolled 
fine. To be used for the top of any scalloped dish. Cracker 
crumbs or bread crumbs may be used and bits of butter dotted 
over top. 



BREAD ^ 

From the moat remote times, bread has been an important 
part of the diet of mankind. It is to-day probahly more gen- 
erally and extensively used than any other one food-stuH, 
with the possible exception of milt. It is therefore extremely 
important to know what constituteB good bread and what are 
its nutritive properties. 

Composition. The ingredients of bread are very simple — 
flour, water, yeast and salt. Any cereal, cleaned, crushed and 
aifted to a powder, may serve as the flour, but wheat flour 
- makes the moat satisfactory bread, because its proteins in 
the form of gluten have more elasticity than those of other 
cereals. 

" Bread contains from 34 to 40 per cent, of water, and the 
remainder, about 60 per cent, at least, is nutritive material. 
It contains a large amount of carbohydrates, a moderate 
amount of protein, a small amount of mineral matter, and 
almost no fat. Bread could not serve as the sole article of 
diet, because in order to supply enough fuel, protein, and ash 
constituents one would have to eat an impossibly large amount, 
and the diet would still be deficient in vitamines. The ad- 
dition of other foods to increase the protein and ash content 
of the diet decreases the hulk necessary. Most methods of in- 
creasing the protein contents of "bread have a tendency to in- 
crease the cost, but skim milk can be used in place of water in 
the mixing with little added expense, and it will add about 3 
per cent, increase as to protein.'-^ 

Digeslibililtf and Nutritive Value. " The nutritive value 
of bread depends, not only on its chemical composition, but 
also on its digestibility, and digestibility in its turn seems 
to depend largely on the lightness of the loaf. It is the 

1 For «lr Une rrclp«i spnd to A. O. True, Director The Stales BclaliDti 
SoTTice, DnilBd 8Ul6« DD|,artnienl of Agriqulture, WaBhinglon, D. C. 

:Tn>m F»™w"« Bulletin Ko. 3H9. XT. 8. Depl. of Agriculture, Woshlng- 
Inn n (■ Pnr l„rtlii'r I nf nrniat inn . Tead " Bread and Brnad-llakinB^- 



348 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

gluten in a dough which gives it the power of stretching 
and rising as the gas from the yeast expands within it, and 
hence of making a light loaf. Eye has less gluten proteids 
than wheat, while barley, oats and maize have none, so that 
they do not make a light, porous loaf like wheat. It is pos- 
sible that of the various kinds of wheat flour those con- 
taining a large part of the bran — entire wheat and graham 
flours — furnish the body with more mineral matter than 
fine white flour; but it is not certain that the extra amount 
of mineral matter furnished is of the same value as that from 
the interior of the grain. They do not yield more digestible 
protein than the white flours, as was for a time supposed. 
It seems safe to say that, as far as is known, for a given 
amount of money, white flour yields the most actual nourish- 
ment with the various food ingredients in good proportion. 

" It should be remembered, however, that all kinds of bread 
are wholesome if of good quality, and the use of several 
kinds is an easy means of securing variety in the diet.'' ^ As 
compared with most meats and vegetables, bread has prac- 
tically no waste, and is very completely digested. Few foods 
yield so much energy for so little money. A diet of bread 
and milk can be perfectly balanced and will be tired of less 
easily than any other equally simple diet. 

All bread-stuffs should be eaten slowly and thoroughly 
masticated, in order that time may be given for the saliva 
to act upon the starch. For if the stomach is hampered with 
quantities of unchanged starch it cannot perform its work 
without effort. Fermentation results or the intestines have 
more than their share of work to do and rebel. If these foods 
were eaten slowly much of the resultant dyspepsia would be 
avoided. 

Bread Substitutes. When, for any reason, persons are 
curtailed in the use of starch in a diet, as in diabetes, they 
find it a great privation to do without bread, and an acceptable 
substitute may be used. However, a diabetic bread should 
never be prescribed without a knowledge of its content of 
carbohydrates, protein and fat. 

1 From Farmer's Bulletin No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washinr 
ton. D. 0. 




BREAD 249 

Gluten Bread. Uliitcri fluur is prepared by washing the 
starch wliolly or in part from wlieat flour. The grayish, 
tough, elastic, sticky mass left aftor this process is largely 
gluten. The washed gluten dried and ground is called gluten 
flour. It contains considerable starch, so tiiat it is necessary 
for the pjiysician to know the exact composition of the brand 
emploj'ed so aa to insure good results. 

Bran Bread. Bran is now extensively used in the diet of 
diabetic patients. If made with bacon fat, butter or eggs the 
flavor is much improved. Bran often contains a considerable 
quantity of starch. This may be washed by putting bran in 
cheesecloth and washed under cold water tap until water is 
clear. 

Soy Bean Bread. Soy bean or soy bean flour contains a 
small amount of sugar, but few foods so valuable to llie dia- 
betic contain so little, and the flour is used to great advantage 
in diabetics. The average composition is water 1(1%, pro- 
tein 35%, fat 18%, sugar 8 or 9% and the remainder i.s made 
up of filwr and noo-nitrogenons extract. One ounce con- 
tains 13 grams of protein and 130 calories. 

Svgar Substitutes. Sweetina, or saccharine tablets may 
be used to sweeten bread substitutes or for any food needing 
sweetening for the diabetic. To one bottle of " sweetina " 
add one pint water of which one teaspoon is equal to one pint 
of sugar. Dissolve one half grain " saccharine " in one tea- 
spoon water or one " saccharine tablet " in two tablespoons of 
water. 

Bread-Making. The two practical methods of making 
bread are with yeast (fermented bread) and with cream of 
tartar and bicarbonate of soda (unfcrmented bread). 

Fermented Bread. The raising or leavening of bread is 
usually brought about by allowing yeast to develop in it. 
Yeast is an exceedingly minute form of plant life, which, 
when given food, flour, moisture and warmth, grows; and 
by this growth produces carbon dioxide and alcohol. 

The carbon dioside, in its eSort to escape, puffs up the 
flour dough, hut owing to the viscous nature of the gluten 
(the elastic, strength-giving substances of flour) it is caught 
and retained. 



350 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Each little bubble of gas occupies a certain space^ and 
when the bread is baked the walls around these spaces harden 
and the result is a porous loaf. The alcohol escapes into the 
oven in the baking. 

To bake bread requires a hot oven. 

The bread should continue to rise for about fifteen min- 
utes after being placed in the oven, then the rising should 
cease and the loaf begin to brown. 

We bake bread to kill the yeast plant, to render the starch 
more digestible, to expel the alcohol and carbon dioxide and to 
form a nice flavored crust. 

The making of good bread requires care and intelligence 
on the part of the cook. Use a good brand of flour, fresh 
yeast, remembering that yeast is a plant and must be put at 
a proper temperature to grow. Watch each process carefully. 

"Lightness and sweetness of bread depends as much on 
the way in which it is made as on the materials used. The 
greatest care should be used in preparing and baking the 
dough and in cooking and keeping the finished bread.*' 

Unfermented Bread, Carbon dioxide is obtained to lighten 
bread by causing cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda to 
unite chemically. 

To one part soda use two parts cream of tartar. When 
given moisture and heat carbon dioxide is obtained. 

Baking powder is a combination of the following in- 
gredients: 

Bicarbonate of soda 84 grammes 

Cream of tartar 188 grammes 

Starch 5 to 20 per cent. 

WHITE FLOUR BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) =73 Calories. 

1 pint hot milk (or water). 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk (or water). 1 Fleischmann's yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Flour (about 3 quarts). 

2 tablespoons butter or lard. 

Into mixing bowl put the scalded milk, add the butter; 
when melted add the sugar, salt and cold milk. Save one- 



BREAD 251 

half cup of this liquid, and when lukewarm soften the yeast 
in it and stand where it will keep warm. To above mixture 
add warmed sifted flour (sift twice before using) to make a 
thin batter, add softened yeast and more flour until stiff 
enough to knead. Ejiead until light and spongy. Care 
should be taken not to add more flour than is absolutely neces- 
sary. Butter a large stone crock or bowl, place bread in it 
and cover. Let rise three and one-half hours at about 75 
degrees Fahrenheit (in a medium warm room) . Then remove 
from jar and knead about twenty minutes until smooth and 
velvety, put into pans, cover carefully and let rise one hour 
or until double its bulk. 

Bake in a hot oven from forty-five minutes to one hour, 
depending upon size of loaves. • 

If hard crust is desired, remove from pans and cool in a 
draft of air. For soft crust, before bread cools roll it in a 
clean cloth. 

This quantity will make three good sized loaves; one-half 
the amount may be used for one large loaf. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 
1 slice (1 oz. ) .= 70 Calories. 

2 cups scalded milk. 2 yeast cakes dissolved in ^ cup 

2 cups boiling water. lukewarm water. 

3 tablespoons butter. 2 cups white flour. 

3 tablespoons salt. Entire wheat flour enough to 

5 tablespoons molasses. knead. 

Make as for wheat flour bread, and add molasses after the 
first rising. 

One-half of recipe may be used. 

WHOLE WHEAT OR GRAHAM BREAD 

Make the same as wheat flour bread, adding two table- 
spoons of sugar or molasses. Make a batter with white flour, 
using three or four cups, then use whole wheat or graham 
flour. Let rise longer than for white bread, and put imme- 
diately into pans without second kneading. 

Note. — Omit sweetening if desired. 



252 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

GLTTTEN BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) =71 Calories. 

l^ yeast cake. 3*4 cups Hoyt*s gluten flour. 

2 cups lukewarm water. 14 teaspoon salt. 

Soften the yeast in a small portion of the water and add 
to tlie ingredients. Mix to a stiff dough and knead thor- 
oughly, using more gluten if necessary to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board. Shape into a loaf, place in a buttered pan 
for about two and one-half hours to rise until the dough is 
about twice its bulk. Then bake for forty-five minutes. If 
desired the dough may be given a second mixing after the 
first rising, letting it rise again before baking. 

Note. — Gluten bread may be made the same as ordinary 
wheat flour bread with the exception of shortening, which is 
not required. 

Avoid having the water too warm or the bread will be 
sticky ; the chill taken off is all that is necessary. 

If desired, one cup of nut meats cut in small pieces may be 
added to dough just before putting into pans. 

BRAN BREAD 

Follow rule for Gluten Bread, using one part of bran to 
four parts of Gluten Flour with one cup of moisture. If 
the bran is increased the moisture must be lessened. 

BOSTON BBK)WN BREAD, 2530 CALORIES 

1 small slice (1 oz. ) =64 Calories. 

1 cup granulated Indian meal. 2 cups sour milk. 

1 cup rye flour. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 cup graham flour. % cup molasses. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients (except soda) together; dissolve soda 
in sour milk and add, then, molasses. Pour into buttered tins 
and steam three or four hours. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT, 694 CALORIES 

1 cup flour. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 

11/2 level teaspoons Rumford bak- 1 tablespoon butter or lard. 
ing powder. ^^ cup (scant) milk or water. 



BREAD 353 

Sift dry ingredientB twice, ml) in the butter with tips of 
fingers; using knife, stir in gradually the liquid; mix aa 
soft aa can be handled : put dough on a well-flonrcd board, 
pat lightly to one inch thickneBs, cut with biscuit cutter, 
put on a shallow buttered tin, heated, and bake in a hot oven. 
Put a little milk on top of each biscuit before baking to make 
them brown well. 

Note. — Dough may be lightly kneaded as for bread, and 
then cut. 

WHITE QEMS, 1627 CALORIES 

2 cups flour. 2 tnbleepoona butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tableEpoons sugar. 

3 level teBBpuoDS Runiford bak- 2 eggs, 
ing powder. 1 cup niilk. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the well-beaten 
eggs and the milk gradually, then the butter melted, and beat 
all weU together. Have gem pans well greased and heated ; 
fill two-thirds full and bake in a very hot oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Put a little melted butter on each gem 
before putting it into the oven. They are sufficiently cooked 
when tested with a fine washed knitting needle and it comes 
out dry. 

COanVEAL GEUS, 1370 CAXORIEB 

1 cup flour. Vb teaspoon salt, 
■/a cup eornmeal, 1 egg. 

% cup BUgar. 1 cup milk. 

.1 level teaxpoons Humford baking 1 tablespoon melted butter, 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and 
well-beaten egg and the melted butter. Put into well-greased 
hot gems and cook in a quick oven . 

SOY BEAN HTTFTIITS, ISOO CALORIES 
IH cups Eo; flour, 1 cup milk. 

y, cup wheat tlcmr. 3 tea»[H)on8 (level) baking pow- 

V: teaspoon salt. der. 

2 eggB. 1 i/j tablespoons melted butter. 



254 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Sift dry ingredients into nnxing bowl, add the milk and 
well beaten eggs and the melted butter. Put into well- 
greased hot gem pans and cook in a hpt oven about fifteen 
minutes. The carbohydrates produced in above will be 280. 
Soy bean cake may be made the same as above adding such as 
chopped nuts, spices or chocolate, etc., for flavor. 

BRAN MUFFINS, 1177 CALORIES 

1 cup wheat bran. 1 egg. 

1 cup whole wheat flour. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1^ cups milk. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

(14 cup stoned raisins, 220 Calories.) 

Mix dry ingredients (and raisins if used) add milk, well 
beaten egg and the melted butter. Bake in hot oven in gem 
pans which have been well greased. 

BRAN BISCUITS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 1 

Bran 60 gms. 

Agar Agar ( powdered ) 6 gms. 

Water 70 cc. {% glass) 

Tie bran in cheesecloth and wash under cold water tap 
until water is clear. Mix Agar Agar and % glass cold water 
free from lumps, and bring to a boil. Mix while hot with 
the washed bran. Turn the mixture upon a tray and press 
into a firm, even sheet about % inch thick. Mark off into 
five biscuits, and when firm and cold (6 to 8 hrs.) bake in 
moderate oven till dry — about 45 minutes. Salt may be 
added. This quantity is sufficient for one day. 

BRAN CAKES FOR DIABETICS, 393 CALORIES 2 

Calories 

Bran 2 cups 

Melted butter 30 grams (1 tablespoonful plus 2 gms.) 225 

Eggs (whole) 2 156 

Egg-white ( 1 ) 25 grams 12 

Salt 1 teaspoonful 

Water 

1 Dr. F. M. Allen, " The Hospital of the Rockefeller Institute," 1917. 
(Agar Agar purchase at drug stores. Bran is more reasonable if purchased 
from a feed store.) 

•-' Dr. Elliott P. .Toslin. *' The Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus." Lea h 
Febiger. Philadelphia, Pa.. 1916. 



TOAST 255 

Tie bran in cheese-cloth and wash thoroughly by fastening 
on to the water tap, until the water comes away clear. The 
bran should be frequently kneaded so that«all parts come in 
contact with the water. Wring dry. Mix bran, well beaten 
whole eggs, butter and salt. Beat the egg white very stiff and 
fold in at the last. Shape with knife and tablespoon into 
three dozen small cakes. If desired one-half a gram of cin- 
namon or other flavoring may be added. Each cake contains : 
protein, 0.5 grams; fat, 1.0 gram; calories, 11. 

BTTTTEB BALLS 
1 teaspoon butter = 36 Calories. 

Cut butter in small pieces size of balls desired, and put 
in ice-water. Soak the butter paddles in boiling water ten 
minutes, then chill in ice-water. Hold a paddle firmly in 
the left hand and roll each piece of butter with the right 
paddle until round. If butter sticks it must be chilled longer, 
or paddles must be rubbed with salt and reheated. 

One pound of butter will make about thirty balls. 

TOAST 

In ordinary wheat bread, starch is the principal constituent. 
Starch when subjected to a high degree of heat is changed 
into an easily digested substance called dextrin. 

In the ordinary cooking of a loaf of bread the starch, in 
the outer layer is changed into dextrin, which gives the crust 
its sweet flavor. Slices of bread toasted imdergo a similar 
change. 

Bread is toasted not merely to brown it, but to take out 
all the moisture possible, so that it may be more thoroughly 
moistened with the saliva, and thus easily digested; also 
to give it a better flavor. The correct way to make toast is 
to use stale bread cut in uniform slices, and to dry it thor- 
oughly before browning. 

Toast prepared in this way, even if moistened with milk 
or water, may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by the 
digestive fluids. 



266 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

ENERGY VALUE OF BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz. ) entire wheat bread =70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz. ) gluten bread =71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston Brown Bread.. =64 Calories. 

See Table, page 56, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SIPPETS 

Cut thin slices of bread, and from them make oblongs an 
inch wide by four inches long. Toast carefully so that they 
will not break, and pile on a small bread-plate with doily if 
they are to be served dry. 

TOAST STICKS 

Take a slice of fresh home-made bread (made without shorts 
ening), or French bread, cut five-eighths of an inch thick, re- 
move crust and cut in narrow strips. Place on rack in pan 
and dry and brown in a slow oven. 

CBOTTTONS 

See chapter '^ Soup Accompaniments '' for recipe. Page 
229. 

GLUTEN CRISP 

Cut gluten bread into thin slices, and dry in slow oven 
until the moistening is thoroughly evaporated, or the bread 
may be cut in cubes and slightly browned. Serve in soups 
or in milk. 

WATER TOAST 

Toast the bread. Dip quickly in boiling salted water (al- 
lowing one-half teaspoon salt to one cup water). Spread 
with butter. Serve on hot plate. 

TOASTED CRACKERS 
1 Saltine=15 Calories. 

Toast oblong crackers daintily, and butter. Serve on plate 
with doily, piled log-cabin fashion. 



TOAST 367 

UTLS TOAST, 386 CALOEIES 

Put a cup of rich milk in a aaucepan and place it on the 
stove. While it is heating, toast three slices of bread to a 
delicate brown. Put them into a covered dish, and when the 
milk is scalding hot, season it with a saltspoon of salt, and 
pour it over the toaat. 

Note. — A little butter may be spread on each slice before 
the milk is added, but it is a more delicate dish without it. 
CKEAU TOAST "SO. I, 261 CALOKIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
14 tableapoon butter. y, cup milk. 

'/, tablespoon flour. IVi Blicea bread. 

^ teaspoon aalt. 

Scald the milk. Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire 
and add the milk gradually. Stir over heat constantly until 
emooth, cooking five minutes after blending, or until the 
starch is thoroughly cooked. 

Toast: Remove crust if desired, cut in oblong pieces and 
toast Serve on small platter with cream sauce poured over 
it, and garnish with toast points. 

Note. — If you wish the toast very soft, it may be dipped 
very quickly in boiling salted water before adding the cream 
sauce. 

CBEAK TOAST HO. H, 261 CALORIES 
^ tablespoon butter. 1 tableBponn. cold water. 



Scald milk. Mix flour and salt and add the cold water 
gradually, making a smooth, thin paste. Add to scalded 
milk; cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Add butter. Pour over toast, and 
serve hot, on hot platter, 

CELERY TOAST 
4 ounces celery = 12 Caloriea. 
Clean celery and cut into one-inch pieces ; cover with boil- 
ing water and cook until tender ; drain off water. 



258 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Prepare Cream Sauce in Cream Toast No. I; add cooked 
celery and pour on small slices of buttered toast. Garnish 
with toast points. 

FRENCH TOAST (FOR THE DIABETIC), 544 CALORIES 

1 egg. Salt. 

3 tablespoons milk. 5 slices gluten bread. 

Beat the egg, add milk or cream and salt; dip into this 
mixture slices of the bread or muflBns may be used. Saute 
and brown in a little butter. 

CLAM BROTH AND TOAST 

Follow directions as for Milk or Cream Toast, adding suffi- 
cient Clam Broth (to taste) to the Sauce, and pour over toast. 
Serve hot. 

SANDWICHES 

TO PREPARE SANDWICHES 

Use white, entire wheat, graham, gluten or Boston brown 
bread. Bread may be buttered before cutting from loaf, 
spread with soft, plain butter cut into very thin slices, cover 
with another slice, press together, cut in fancy shapes, or 
roll. Wrap in waxed paper or cover with a dry napkin, 
over which place a slightly moistened one, until ready to 
serve. 

Bread may be baked purposely for sandwiches by filling 
one-half pound baking powder boxes half full of dough, let 
rise and bake. Serve sandwiches on a dainty doily on a 
small plate. 

ENERGY VALUE OF BREAD 



1 slice (1 oz. ) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread =70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread =71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston Brown Bread.. =: 64 Calories. 

1 teaspoon butter =36 Calories. 

See Table, page 53, for energy value of other ingredients. 

^Calculated without bread. 



SANDWICHES 289 

BKEAS AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Butter bread slightly, cut vefy thin and put slices to- 
gether. Cut in fancy shapes, 

BOSTOIT BBOWN BBEAD SAITDWICHES 

Steam Boston brown bread in one-half pound baking pow- 
der cans. Butter and cnt in thin slices and add a thin round 
of white bread. The combination of the two makes a pleas- 
ing variety. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Chop stufEed olives fine and add equal quantity of cream 
cheese and spread on bread and butter sandwiches. A lettuce 
leaf may be added if desired. 

CHICKEN SAimWICEES 
Chop cold boiled chicken, add mayonnaise dressing and 
spread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

Or, instead of mayonnaise, moisten with strong chicken 
broth and season with salt and pepper. Minced celery may 
be added. 

EQ6 SANDWICHES 
See chapter " Egga " for recipe. Pago 183. 

mTTIT SABSWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiclics with stewed dates, 
fi^ or prunes, seasoned with a little lemon juice or chop 
dates, raisins and nuts very fine and moisten with " Cream 
Dreasing." See page 374. 

LETTTTCE SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with a little mayon- 
naise dreasing, lay in fresh, crisp lettuce leaves washed and 
diied thoroQghly, and cut even, 

miT SANDWICHES 
Prepare same as lettuce sandwiches, adding chopped nuts 
to the mayonnaise. 



1 



l,jl 



260 



VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 



PEPTONOISS SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of bread in fancy shapes, butter and spread with 
layer of Dry Peptonoids Soluble, adding salt, pepper, paprika 
or celery salt, if desired. 

Note. — Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be blended with 
mayonnaise dressing, cream, chopped nuts or eggs, for filling. 

RAW BEEP SANDWICHES 

See chapter " Beef Preparations ^^ for recipe. Page 217. 

DATE SANDWICHES 

Combine chopped Dromedary Dates with chopped pecan nut 
meats or cottage cheese and spread on slices of whea thread, 
which have been spread with thick, sweet cream or soft butter. 



CRACKERS — WATERS 

BRAN CRACKERS, 1513 CALORIES i 

1^4 cups wheat bran. ^4 teaspoon salt. 

1% cups sifted flour. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Milk. 

V2 teaspoon soda. 

Blend all ingredients, using enough cold milk to make a 
stiif dough. Eoll to one-eighth inch thickness and cut with 
a small biscuit cutter. Great care is needed in baking that 
tlioy do not burn and at the same time that they are thor- 
ouglily cooked. 

Tliev keep well a long time if put in a tin box. 

Tlioy should be eaten at each meal if needed as purgative 
medicine. 

DELICIOTTS CRACKERS, 547 CALORIES 



Wliito of ono ojxjj. 
Pinch of salt. 



% cup stoned Dromedary Dates, 

chopped. 



Boat slio^htly tlio white of egg with salt. Add the chopped 
dates, spread on luisweetouod crackers, pressing down firmlv. 



CRACKERS — WAFERS 261 

and put in moderate oven for three minutes. This is a de- 
licious cracker, particularly suitable for small children. 

aZVTEIt WA7EE8. 
% cup thick cream = 432 Cal- Hoy t's gluten flour (1 cup = 513 

orieH. Calorii!s), 

Vi teaspoon salt. 

Add salt to the cream and sdd the gluten gradually to 
make a stiff dough. Tosa on a floured board and roll as 
thinly as possible and cut in strips with sharp knife or shape 
with a cutter. Bake in a buttered sheet in a slow oven until 
delicately browned. 

VEGETABLES — VEG-ETABLE SAUCES 
LEOTTUES — EOOTS AND TlTBEXS — BREEtT VEOETABLES 

Vegetables intlude nearly all kiuds of plant food except 
fruits, grains and nuts. 

Classification. Vegetables are classified as — 

Legumes — as peas, beans and lentils. 

Boots and Tubers — - as potatoes, beets, turnips, etc. 

Green Vegetables —■ stems and leaves — as lettuce, spinach, 
celerj', etc. 

Composition. All vegetables have a high percentage of 
water, and with the exception of legumes, a relatively small 
proportion of protein. T!ie chief nutrients are starch and 
sugar. The fats are usually smnll in amount and chiefly in 
the form of oils. A variety of mineral salts are present, 
chiefly salts of potassium and sodium united with organic 
acids. Vegetables give bulk to food and possess antiscorbutic 
properties. 

Digestibility. As the gastric ferments play no part in 
carbohydrate digestion, vegetables are digested mainly in the 
intestines. The presence of cellulose prevents the ready di- 
gestion of the nutrients, hence it may be stated as a general 
rule that vegetable food is less ■completely digested and ab- 
sorbed than animal food. It would seem desirable to restrict 



262 



VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 



this type of food for persons of very weak digestive powers. 

Oenerai Rules for Cooking Vegetables. Wash thoroughly; 
pare, peel, or scrape, according to the- kind. Let them stand 
in cold water until ready to cook, to keep them crisp, to 
freshen them when wilted, or to prevent them- from turning 
dark. 

Cook in enough freshly boiling salted water to cover, and 
keep the water boiling (not rapid boiling, as tender vegetables 
are easily broken). Allow one teaspoon of salt to one quart 
of water. Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, 
except in the case of delicate green vegetables, as peas, 
spinach, etc., when it should not be added until nearly done. 
To preserve the color, cook green vegetables uncovered. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender, drained im- 
mediately, and served promptly. Overcooking injures their 
flavor and makes them tough. Time for cooking vegetables 
varies with the size, age and freshness. 



Time-TahU for Cooking 



Potatoes 25-30m. 

Carrots 35-45m. 

Turnips 45m. 
Beets (young) 45m. 

Beets (old) 3-4 hrs. 

Tomatoes 1-3 hrs. 

Onions 45-60m. 



Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Asparagus 

Spinach 

Celery 

Parsnips 

Green Peas 



Yegetahlea in Water 
45-60m. String Beans 1-3 hra. 



20-30m. 
20-30m. 
30-45m. 
20-30m. 
30-45m. 
30-45m. 



Lima Beans, 

Green Com 

Rice 

Macaroni 



1 hr. or 
more 
12-20IIL 
20-45m. 
45-60m. 



Thrice-cooked Vegetables,^ The vegetables are cleaned, 
cut up fine, soaked in cold water and then strained. They 
are then tied up loosely in a large square of double cheese- 
cloth — large enough so that the comers of the cloth, after 
it has been tied up with a string, make conveniently long 
ends, and also large enough to allow the vegetables to swell 
without sticking together. They are then transferred to fresh 
cold water, placed on the fire, and allowed to reach 150® F. 
This water is poured off and replaced by water of the same 
temperature, which is brought to the boiling point, and then 

1 Dr. EUiott P. Joslin, *' The Treatment of Diabetes MellituB." 



VEGETABLES 263 

the water is again poured off, and so on until the requisite 
number of changes are made. The pots for the vegetables 
ehould be of sufficient size to hold a large quantity of water, 
and in a hospital, vegetables enough for the daily supply of 
BIX patients. Vegetables thus ccKiked will keep in cold stor- 
age two or more days, and can be reheated in a steamer. 

If the vegetables are cooked with the cover left off the pot 
they will he lighter in color and the flavor not so strong. 

Legumes. Of this class of food-stuffs, peas and beans are 
the most important. Lentils and peanuts are also valuable. 

Composition. Fresh legumes, such as peas and beans, con- 
tain from 8 per cent, to 9 per cent, of protein, a trace of fat 
and from 1 per cent, to 30 per cent, of carbohydrate. 

Dried legumes, such as dried peas and beans, on account 
of the lessened amount of water, contain from IS per cent, to 
35 per cent, of protein, over 1 per cent, fat, and as high as 
65 per cent, carbohydrate. They form one of the chief sources 
of protein in a strictly vegetarian diet. Digestibility depends 
largely upon the method of cooking and the amount eaten. 

Boots and Tubers. Boots and tubers contain the reserve 
material stored up by the plant, and some of them are among 
the important food-stuffs. Their nutritive value is largely 
due to starch and sugar. On account of the small proportion 
of protein and fat, and the large proportion of water, they 
are inferior in nutritive value to both legumes and cereals. 
The mineral matter is an important constituent of these, as 
of other vegetable foods. Sodium, potassium and iron salts, 
and sulphur and phosphorus compounds, are the common ash 
constituents. In combination with organic acids, etc, they 
contribute much to the flavor of these foods. 

Aa a class they may be divided into the following groups : 

1. Starch-yielding vegetables, as potatoes and sweet pota- 
toes. 

2. Succulent roots, as beets, carrots, parsnips and onions. 

3. Condimental or flavoring roots, as horse-radish and gin- 



1 



264: VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

The potato is the most important of the starch-yielding 
class of vegetables. It is a tuber or thickened undergronnd 
stom. 

The composition of the potato (Letheby) is as follows : 

Water 75.00 per cent. 

Starch 18.80 per cent. 

Nitrogenous matter 2.00 per cent. 

Sugar 3.00 per cent. 

Fat 20 per cent. 

When pared before cooking, there may be a considerable 
loss of nutritive material, especially of mineral matter. By 
cooking in the skin, this loss is largely prevented. To be 
easily digestible, a potato must be mealy, so as to be readily 
acted on by digestive juices. This is best accomplished by 
baking in an oven at 380 to 400'' P. When a patient begins 
to take solids, the vegetable usually first prescribed is a baked 
potato. 

Beets, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips and onions are 
the most common of the class of succulent roots. They con- 
tain, as a rule, more water than the starch-yielding class of 
vegetables, and their carbohydrates are frequently in the form 
of sugars, pectins, and other polysaccharide carbohydrates 
some of which have no nutritive value. The percentage of 
crude fiber is greater than in the starch-yielding class. 

The characteristic flavors and odors are in many cases due 
to the presence of volatile organic compounds of sulphur. 
These are often advantageous in making the vegetables pal- 
atable, and adding variety to the diet. 

The beet contains a large percentage of starch and sngar. 

Carrots and parsnips also contain much sugar, and when 
young and tender form a very nutritious food. 

Onions contain considerable nutriment, but are most val- 
uable for their pungent oil, which is rich in sulphur. They 
have diuretic properties, and are useful in constipation. 

Radishes contain a large amount of cellulose and should 
not be eaten by invalids. They are chiefly used as a relish. 



VEGETABLES 136ff 

Green Vegetables. These vegetables have a fuel value of 
less tlian 200 calories per pound; they are useful chiefly for 
their mineral saltB, and for the bulk, variety and relish they 
give to the diet, 

Asparagus is easily digested, even by invalids. It has a 
diuretic action, and imparts a characteristic odor to the urine 
for some hours. 

Cabbage contains considerable aulpliur and therefore fre- 
quently causes flatulence. 

Cauliflower belongs to the cabbage family, but is easily 



1 



Celery is more digestible cooked than raw. 

Spinach is especially valuable for its large amount of iron. 

ENXEQT VALTTE OF THE POTATO 

1 medium potato E. P.i (S'/j oza.) = 83 Calories. 

See Table, page 66, for energy value of other ingredients, 
BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and put into 
cold water to keep from discoloring. Put them into sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, hoil and when partly cooked, 
add one tablespoon salt to every six potatoes. Cook until 
soft, about twenty-iive to thirty minutes, drain very dry, and 
shake the pan, without a cover, gently over the stove till 
the potatoes are mealy. Do not serve in covered dish. 

EICED POTATOES 

Add salt and pepper to boiled potatoes, and rub them 
through a heated potato-ricer or squash-strainer into the (hot) 
dish they are to be served in. Serve immediately, or pour 
a little milk over the top and brown in the oven. 

MASHED POTATOES, 306 CALORIES 

For mashed potatoes the uneven sizes may be used; the 

larger ones should be cut, bo all will be of uniform size. 

Prepare as for boiled potatoes. When cooked and dried, add 

salt, butter, pepper and cream in following proportion: 

1 Edible Fortion. 



266 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

V 

1 pint potatoes. % teaspoon white pepper. 

14 teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons hot cream, milk or 2 

1 tablespoon butter. tablespoons dry milk.i 

To the potatoes add the salt, pepper and butter, and mash, 
leaving them in saucepan cooked in, and on stove so as to 
keep them hot. Use open-wire masher or fork and beat 
quickly, so they may be light and dry, not " gummy." Lastly 
put in the cream, beat for a moment and serve immediately. 

POTATO CAKES 

From cold mashed potatoes make slightly flattened balls. 
Put them in a floured tin, brush each over with milk and 
bake in a hot oven five minutes, or till a delicate brown. 

Note. — These cakes may be saut6ed in a little beef fat or 
butter if desired. 

STTEPRISE BALLS 

Eoll the potatoes into balls as above, and with a teaspoon 
press a hollow in the top. Chop fine some cold, lean meat, 
season it with salt, pepper and gravy and put one teaspoon 
of the meat into the hollow of the potato ball. Put a little 
milk or melted butter on top and brown in oven or saute. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size, not very large, wash and 
scrub thoroughly, cut off a small piece at each end in order 
that the steam may escape. Bake in hot oven from forty-five 
to fifty minutes. When baked break open slightly, that steam 
may escape, and serve on folded napkin. 

POTATOES BAKED IN THE HALP SHELL 

Cut off top of baked potato and scoop out inside. Mash 
and season well as for mashed potatoes and add the well- 
beaten white of egg. Fill the skins with the mixture, heap- 
ing it lightly on top, brush over with milk or slightly beaten 
white of egg and brown slightly. Potatoes may be sprinkled 
with grated cheese before putting into oven. 

1 Dissolve in a little hot water. . , 



VEGETABLES 367 

POTATOES AU QB.ATIN 

Cut oold boiled potatoes into cubes and put into a buttered 
baking disb. Cover witb white sauce, put buttered cracker 
or bread crumbs on top and bake until golden brown. 

Note. — A little grated cheese added to the White Sauce 
juBt before pouring over the potatoes adds a pleasant flavor. 
CBEAUED POTATOES, 180 CALOEIES 
X cap cold sliced or cubed po- '^ teaspoon salt. 

tatnes. '^ teaspoon finely chopped para- 

Vt cup milk. lej. 

14 lableapoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

Heat the milk, add the potatoes, and cook until they have 
nearly absorbed the milk. Add butter and aeaaoning, cook 
five minutes longer, add parsley and serve hot. 
POTATO BALLS 
From large potatoes cut balls with a French potato cutter 
and throw them into cold water. Cook for twelve minutes 
or more in enough boiling water to cover. Salt at end of 
aix minutes. Drain and let them stand a few minutes to 
dry. Serve as a vegetable, with cream sauce, or with parsley 
butter, or use as a garnish for broiled fish. Test potatoes 
with a needle to see when tender. 

Note. — Make mashed potatoes from frames left after cut- 
ting out the balls. 

FAESLEY BUTTEB, 358 CALOBIES 
1 tablespoon butter. .Juice '/^ lemon. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 pint potato balla. 

Cream the butter, add lemon juice and chopped parsley. 
Add to the hot potato balls, heat five minutes and serve. 
Om it lemon guice if desired. 

ASFAKAQirS 

^ bunch asparagus =: 60 Calorics. 

1 Blic« toast ( 1 OE.) ^73 Calories. 

Boiled Asparagus. Prepare asparagus by cutting off lower 
part of stalk at the point at which they will snap. Waah, 



1 



268 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

remove scales and tie together or cut into one inch pieces 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, twenty to thirty-five 
minutes. As the tips are more tender keep them out of water 
the first ten minutes of the cooking. Drain, place in hot 
serving dish, spread with one-half teaspoon butter and sprin- 
kle with salt. 

Asparagus on Toast. Serve boiled asparagus on buttered 
toast, moistened with a little of the liquid the asparagus is 
cooked in. 

Cream Asparagits, Plain or on Toast. Pour Cream Sauce 
No. I over boiled asparagus and serve hot, or serve boiled 
asparagus on toast and pour Cream Sauce "No. I over same. 

CARROTS 

1 small carrot (2 ozs.) =20 Calories. 

Boiled Carrots. Wash, scrub and scrape off the very thin 
skin. Cut each carrot into slices from one-fourth to one- 
fifth inch thick, cut into cubes and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft, forty-five to sixty minutes. They may be 
served plain with a little melted butter, salt and pepper, or 
they may be mashed and seasoned as above. 

Creamed Carrots. Pour Creamed Sauce No. I over boiled 
cubed carrot, reheat and serve. 

CAXTLtFLOWER 

1 serving (4 ozs.) =35 Calories. 

Boiled Cauliflower. Cut off stalk and remove leaves of 
cauliflower. Soak thirty minutes in cold water to cover, head 
down. Cook, head up, twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft, 
in boiling salted water. Drain and separate flowerets. 

Creamed Cauliflower. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
cauliflower, reheat and serve. 

CELERY 

1 serving (2 ozs.) =6 Calories. 

Scrape celery. Cut stalks in one-half inch pieces and 
cook uncovered in boiling salted water twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Serve with Cream Sauce No. I poured over it. Sauce 



VEGETABLES 269 

can be made using' part milk and part water in which celery 
was cooked. 

SFUTACH — SANSEIIONE — BEET GEEEKS 
1 serving (4 oza,) ^27 Calories. 

Eemove roots, pick over carefully (discarding wilted leaves) 
and waHh thoroughly in many waters until Iree from sand; 
cook in boiling salted water, allowing one-fourth as much 
water as greens. Cook twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain 
and chop if desired, reheat, season with butter and salt; gar- 
nish with slices of hard-cooked egg. Serve with vinegar. 
OKIONS 
1 aerving (4 ozB.) :^66 Calories. 

Boiled Onions. Put onions into pan of cold water and peel 
nnder water. Put them into boiling water with one teaspoon 
salt and one-fourth teaspoon soda to one quart water. After 
cooking five minutes pour off the water and add fresh boiling 
salted water, and after ten minutes change the water again. 
Boil until tender — forty-five to sixty minutes. Drain off 
the water and add a little milk, eook a few moments and add 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Onions. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
onions, reheat and serve. 

Scalloped Onions. Place onions in a baking dish and add 
Cream Sauce No. I. Cover top with buttered cracker or 
bread crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

PEAS (QREEN OS. CAKlfED) 
1 SGrviog (4 ozs.) ^114 Caloriee. 
Green Peas. Eemove peas from pods, cover with cold 
water and let stand one-half hour. Skim off small peas tliat 
come to the top and drain remaining peas. Cook until soft, 
thirty to forty-five minutes, in a small quantity of water. 
There should be little or no water to drain from peas when 
they are cooked. A small quantity of sugar may be added 
if the natural sweetness of the peas has been lost. Season 
with butter and ealt. 



270 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Canned Peas should be drained and thoroughly rinsed, 
cover with boiling water, boil two minutes and again drain, 
then add a small quantity of boiling water and cook from 
five to ten minutes. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Peas No. I. To one-third cup of cooked peas 
add one teaspoon of flour mixed with one-eighth teaspoon of 
sugar. Cook slightly and add one tablespoon of cream, and 
salt and pepper to taste. = 75 calories. 

Creamed Peas No. II. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over 
drained cooked peas, reheat and serve. 

STRING BEANS 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =44 Calories. 

Eemove strings from beans and cut or snap into one inch 
pieces. Wash and cook in boiling water until tender (one 
to three hours). Drain and season with butter and salt 
Cook beans in as little water as possible. Select fresh beans 
that will snap easily. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 medium tomato =16 Calories. 

1 cup canned tomato =61 Calories. 

Canned or fresh tomatoes may be used. To prepare fresh 
tomatoes wash, pour boiling water over them and then peel 
and cut into pieces, put in saucepan and cook slowly twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a few bread or cracker 
crumbs and season with butter, salt and pepper. Bread and 
cracker crumbs may be omitted. A little sugar may be added 
if tomatoes are very acid. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

1 medium tomato =16 Calories. 

Wash, dry and remove a thin slice from stem end of to- 
mato. Remove seeds and pulp, and drain off most of the 
liquid ; to the pulp add an equal quantity of cracker crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion, or a 
few drops of onion juice. Eefill tomatoes with mixture and 



VEGETABLE SAUCES 271 

place in a buttered tin; sprinkle with buttered cracker 
crumbs, bake twenty to thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES, 176 CALOBIES 

(Individual Hule.) 

1 large ripe tomato. Bread crumbs. 

Salt, pepper. 2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place a layer of 
bread crumbs; and place on top of this one-half of the to- 
mato, from which the skin has been removed and then cut 
in small pieces; season well with salt, pepper and bits of but- 
ter. Add another layer of crumbs, then the remaining tomato 
and seasoning, lastly crumbs. Place bits of butter on top, 
put in slow oven and bake twenty to thirty minutes. (Calcu- 
lated with one slice of bread.) 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 

CEEAH OB WHITE SAXTCE NO. I, 152 CALOKIES i 

Use to pour over any vegetable. 
(Individual Rule.) 
Yz cup milk or thin cream. %6 teaspoon salt. 

Yg tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

Yg tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove 
from stove, add the flour, then the scalding milk gradually, 
put over heat and cook, stirring constantly, until smooth 
and there is no raw taste of starch. 

This sauce may be used in many ways — with creamed oys- 
ters, sweetbreads, any cream dish or any scalloped dish. If 
a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

CEEAH SATTCE NO. n, 134 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y2 cup milk or thin cream. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Y9 tablespoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

^Galculated with milk. 



272 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Scald the cream. Wet the flour with a little cold milk to 
make a smooth mixture, and add to the hot cream. Cook 
well. Just before serving add the butter and salt, and pep- 
per if desired. 

Sauce blended in this way is especially easy of digestion. 
If a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

SALADS ANB SALAD DEESSINQS 

The salad plants, such as lettuce, celery, water cress, en- 
dives, etc., contain little nutriment, but are especially rich 
in mineral matter, and served uncooked in the form of salad, 
all this mineral matter :*- preserved. They are very valuable, 
as these mineral substances are necessary for the healthy 
condition of the blood and should form a large part of the 
daily diet. 

Salads should not be eaten by dyspeptics or those having 
delicate bowels. 

Salads should be prepared daintily, arranged attractively 
and always be served cold. Lettuce and other salad plants 
should be fresh, crisp, and dry. Wash thoroughly, on account 
of danger of germs from dust, soil, etc., chill in very cold 
water until crisp and dry by placing on a clean towel so that 
the water will drain from the leaves; or fold lightly in a 
towel and place on ice until serving time. Parsley is re- 
vived quickly by sprinkling with cold water and putting it 
into an air-tight fruit jar and keeping it in a cold place. 
Treated in this way it will keep fresh a long time. 

Dressing should not be added to green vegetables until 
just before serving, as it tends to wilt them. 

Meat to be used in salads should be free from skin and 
gristle, and should be cut into small cubes, mixed with French 
dressing and allowed to stand some time before combining 
with the vegetables. 

A dainty salad served with a crisp cracker or cheese wafer 



SALAD DRESSING 373 

forms an acceptable luncheon for the convalescent. It may 
also be served with dinner. 

FSESCH DBESSIKO, STO CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, i*, of Rctipe.) 

1 tablespoon vinegar. % tesapoon salt. 

2 tablespoona olive oil. \% teaspoon pepper. 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly and pour over salad juat 
before serving. 

BOILED DRE5SIK0, 4S3 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, Vi of Recipe.) 

1 teaepoon salt. 1 egg. 

y^ teaspooQ mustard. Vs '^^P tailk. 

Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tableBpoons augar. % cup vinegar. 

Mix all dry ingredients. Beat egg in double boiler, add 
dry ingredients, butter and mOk; cook over hot water, stir- 
ring constantly until thick like custard; add vinegar; cool 
and serve. One half tablespoon, flour added to the dry in- 
gredients will make a slightly thicker and a very smooth dress- 
ing. 

Note. — If it curdles, beat ovex cold water until smooth, 

KATDITKAISE OREBSINO, 2S70 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule, ^ of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon mustard. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons powdered sugar. 1^^ cups olive oil. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Mix dry ingredients, add to yolks and mix thoroughly. 
Add a few drops of oil at a time until one-half cup is used, 
beating with egg-beater or wooden spoon. Then add al- 
ternately a few drops of vinegar and lemon juice and the 
remainder of the oil, using care not to lose the stiff con- 
sistency. It should be a thick dressing and not added to 
food until just before serving. 

Note. — Have all ingredients and utensils thoroughly chilled 
and place mixing bowl in a pan of crushed ice while blending. 



J 



274 VEGETABLE OR PLANT POODS 

If dressing curdles, take another egg yolk and add the 
curdled mixture to it slowly, beating constantly. 

Another method of blending is to mix dry ingredients, add 
to yolks and mix thoroughly. Add the vinegar and lemon 
juice slowly, beating well with Dover egg beater. Add the 
oil slowly. 

CBEAM BBESSING, 1697 CALORIES 

(For Fruit Salads.) 

^ cup butter. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon cider vinegar. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 yolks of eggs. ^4 cup vinegar. 
3 whites of egga. ^ cup sugar. 

(a) Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour and pour on 
gradually the scalding milk, cook thoroughly, stirring con- 
stantly. (&) Beat yolks in top of double boiler, add the 
mustard (dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar), salt and 
vinegar. Pour (a) gradually on the egg mixture and cook 
over hot water until it thickens like soft custard, remove from 
fire, add the sugar and fold in the stiflSy-beaten white of eggs. 
Pour into glass fruit jar, cool and cover and keep on ice. 
This dressing will keep a long time and is especially delicious 
to serve with fruit salads. 

CHICKEN SALAD, 856 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

2 cups cut chicken. % teaspoon pepper. 

1 cup cut celery. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

> 2 tablespoons olive oil. 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. 

1 saltspoon salt. 

Mayonnaise, olives, celery leaves or white lettuce for gar- 
nishing. 

Cut the cold chicken into small dice ; cut the cleaned celery 
into small uniform pieces. Mix these together and pour over 
the oil. Mix well, then sprinkle with salt and pepper to 
taste; add the vinegar, blend and put in colander to drain; 
set in a cold place for two or three hours. Just before serv- 
ing add the mayonnaise, put on a bed of lettuce and garnish. 

Note. — Do not mince chicken. 



SALADS aVB 

FRUIT SALADS 

Any combination of fruit desired may be used served with 
"Cream Dressing." An attractive combination is a banana 
peeled, cut in half crosswiBe, Cut one-half lengthwise, ar- 
range on lettuce leaf, add a little Cream Dressing and gar- 
nish with malaga grapes (cut in half and seeded) and small 
pieces of English walnuts. 

HAKGUESITX SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg cut crosswise. Remove yolk. Cut 
white in slices, petal fashion, arrange on lettuce leaf like a 
marguerite and till the center with the yolk put through the 
potato-ricer or strainer. (Jiarnish with parsley and serve 
with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

HIXED SALAD 
Equal proportions of green peas (cooked and drained), 
celery cut in thin slices and English walnuts cut into small 
pieces. Season with salt and pepper, add mayonnaise and 
serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with ripe cherries on the 
stem with blanched hazel nuts put in place of stones. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

Mix equal parts of parboiled Bweetbreada cut into one-half 
inch cubes and celery cut into thin slices. Season with salt 
and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Arrange daintily 
on lettuce leaves. 

DBAS6E AlfD SATE SAIAD, 1373 CALORIES 

Separate one package Dromedary Dates, cover with boiling 
water and cook for two or three minutes. Drain, and dry in 
an oven, cool, stone and cut in halves lengthwise. Halve four 
large oranges and cut out the sections of pulp. Arrange 
criap lettuce leaves on a platter, pile the orange in the centre 
and surround with the dates. Ser^-e with French dressing. 
WALDORF SALAD 

Mix equal parts of apples, pared and cut into small cubes, 
celery sliced in thin circles and English walnuts cut into 



1 



276 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

small pieces. Season with salt and moisten with mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce leaf, garnished with a spoonful of whipped 
cream and halves of English walnuts or pecans. 

WATEB LILY SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg. Cut in halves crosswise in fence 
fashion; remove yolk, put through strainer and refill white. 
Serve on shredded lettuce leaves and garnish with parsley. 
Serve with Erench, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE WAFEBS 

Butter wafer crackers and sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese. Put in oven and bake till cheese is melted and crack- 
ers are a delicate brown. Arrange on small plate with doily. 
Serve with salad. 



FRUITS 1 

Fruits are the seed-bearing portions of plants. Some 
products of this class, such as melons, are sometimes called 
fruits and sometimes vegetables ; and a few vegetable products 
which are not fruits in the strict sense, are included in this 
class of food products because they have a similar place in 
the diet. 

Composition, Fresh fruits contain a high percentage of 
water, varying from about 75 per cent, to over 95 per cent. 
It has been suggested that those containing 80 per cent, or 
more of water be classed as flavor fruits, and those with less 
than 80 per cent, as food fruits : Bananas, grapes and fresh 
figs are the commonest examples of the latter class. When 
the water is removed by evaporation, as in drying, the per- 
centage of moisture falls to 30 per cent, or less, and the 
proportion of nutrients is correspondingly raised, so that 
dried fruits would fall into the class of food fruits. Pre- 
served fruits have their nutritive value raised by the addition 
of water, and usually by some loss of water in preparation. 

1 For further information, note " Usee of Fruit as Food." Farmer's BoOe- 
tin No. 293, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. WaBhington, D. O. 



FRUITS S7T 

As a class, fruits contain little or no fat. The olive is a 
remarkable exception. 

The proportion of protein ia so low aa to be practically negli- 
gible. 

Carbohydrates are the chief nutrient present. In ripe 
fruits these are almost wholly in the form of sugars and other 
soluble carbohydrates, pommonly called pectin bodies. In 
unripe fruits starch is often found — notably in the ordinary 
banana. The principal sugars ate sucrose or cane sugar, dex- 
trose or grape sugar, and levulose or fruit sugar. A mix- 
ture of the last two is common, and is called invert sugar, 

Fmita contain characteristic organic acids, such as malic 
in apples, citric in lemons, etc. These acids exist in the form 
of salts, usually of potassium. A little phosphoric acid, lime, 
iron, etc., also occur. 

The flavor is due partly to the sugars and acids, and partly 
to characteristic ethereal bodies present in small quantities. 
Chemists have isolated the ethers and oils which give the 
peculiar flavor to bananas, strawberries and other fruits. 

Digestibility/. Digestibility of fruits varies with the kind 
of fruit eaten and its mode of preparation ; stewed fruits are, 
in general, more easily digested than raw fruits. Personal 
idiosyncrasy has also much to do with digestibility in case of 
this class of food materials. Oranges, lemons, grapes and 
peaches are very generally digested with ease. Oranges are 
much used in invalid dietaries, their juice being very effective 
in allaying thirst. Orange juice is also commonly adminis- 
tered to infants, especially if fed artificially, for Uie sake of 
the mineral matter and to prevent constipation and, in the case 
of infants fed on pasteurized or boiled milk or on proprietary 
foods, as an antiscorbutic. 

It ie important to those who are obliged to exclude sugar 
from the dietary to know that fruits containing the least 
sugar are the plum, peach, apricot and raspberry. Those 
containing the largest amounts are the apple, sweet cherry, 
grape and pear. 

The apple exerts a most excellent influence upon the liver 



L^ 



278 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

and the kidneys, and is valuable in eases of acidity of the stom- 
ach. 

The juice of the ripe pineapple contains an enzyme, similar 
to pepsin, called bromelin, and so powerful is its action on 
protein that it will digest as much as one thousand times its 
weight within a few hours. It is especially valuable in diph- 
theria and diabetes. 

Dates, figs and prunes are valuable for inactivity of the 
liver and most excellent laxatives. Dates owing to their 
high food value and sweetness offer sugar in a most harm- 
less form to the child and are as satisfactory to them as candy. 

The banana contains a large amount of starch, as much as 
the potato ; therefore it should not be eaten in an unripe state. 
For invalids and children and others of delicate digestion, it 
should always be cooked. 

Grape juice and other freshly expressed juices are refresh- 
ing and wholesome beverages, and can often be given to in- 
valids when the pulp would prove irritating. 

Nutritive Value, Fresh fruits are chiefly valuable for 
their refreshing appetizing qualities, their ash constituents 
and the laxative effect of their cellulose content. The organic 
acids form carbonates in the body, and by their alkalinity as- 
sist in the regulation of body processes. Fresh and canned 
fruits are also valuable for their antiscorbutic property.* 

In disturbed conditions of metabolism it is often important 
to know just what salts and acids fruits contain. 

As already stated, the chief nutrients are carbohydrates. 
In fuel value, fresh fruits resemble given vegetables, as is 
shown by the following figures : 



Kind of Fresh Fruit. Calories 
Edible Portion Per 

Pound. 

Apples 290 

Blackberries 270 

Oranges 240 

Peaches 190 



Kind of Green Calories 

Vegetables. E. P. Per 

Pound. 
Beans, string, fresh .... 195 

Beets, fresh 216 

Carrots, fresh 210 

Onions, fresh 206 

1 See section on the Antiscorbutic Property of Foods, page 22. 



FRUITS 279 

The dried fruits compare favorably with bread, dried beans 
and similar foods as to energy value, but the latter contain 
protein in considerable amounta, while in fruits it occurs only 
in small quantities. The fuel value of fruits is often in- 
creased by the sugar added in cooking or serving. 

Fruits are also valuable for hulk, which is an essential 
factor in diet. Most of them contain a considerable propor- 
tion of indigestible matter. Intelligently used, fruits are a 
valuable part of a well-balanced diet, and their use should 



Precautions in the Use of Fruit. Over-ripe or unripe fruit 
should not be eaten raw ; besides inferior flavor there is dan- 
ger of digestive disturbance. 

Before serving, all fruit should be thoroughly washed to 
avoid germs. Digestive disturbances are more often caused 
by these germs than by the fruit itself. There is danger 
also of acquiring harmful intestinal parasites from raw 
fruits; in all doubtful cases, the food should be cooked. 

For the Diabetic. Sugar must be replaced by sweetina or 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but it has 
no food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 249. 

BAKED APf LES 

Wipe and core apples. Put in a shallow dish with one 
tablespoon water to each apple; more may be added during 
cooking if necessary, put into the center of each apple two 
teaspoons sugar. Bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty min- 
utes, or until soft; baste with the syrup everj- ten minutes. 
A little nutmeg may be added to the sugar, and a few drops 
of lemon juice to each apple. Care must be taken that apples 
do not lose their shape and break. 1 apple = 70 cal. 

STEWED AFFLE SAUCE, 00 GAL0B.IE8 
Wash, pare, core and slice one apple; put in saucepan and 
add one teaspoon sugar and enough boiling water to partly 
cover. Cover and cook slowly without stirring until trans- 
parent and tender. Appetizing to serve with any breakfast 
food. Pears and peaches may be cooked in the same way. 



280 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

APPLES CITBAH STYIE 

Pare and core sound, tart apples. Steam until almost ten- 
der; remove to a buttered pan; fill cavities with eocoanut, 
stick apples full of blanched almonds, baste with syrup made 
of sugar, water and lemon juice. Finish cooking in a hot 
oven, basting often. When serving, fill the cavities with 
jelly or the jellied juice. 

APKICOT AND PBTTNE SAUCE, 178 CALOBIES i 

y^ cup prunes. 1 cup cold water. 

y^ cup dried apricots. Sugar to taste. 

Wash fruit carefully; soak over night and cook slowly for 
two hours. If cooked properly the fruit will need very little 
sugar, as the sugar in the fruit is developed by this method 
of cooking. 

BAKED BANANA 
1 medium banana = 64 Calories. 

Raw, this fruit is often indigestible, but baked it acts as 
a stimulant to the nerves, being at once received and rapidly 
assimilated by the stomach. Cut bananas in halves; put in 
shallow pan ; sprinkle with sugar and a little lemon juice and 
bake until soft. 

Note. — The banana contains starch and should be thor- 
oughly ripened before eating. 

CBANBEBBY SAUCE OB JELLY 

1 cup cranberries. 14 cup water. 

Va cup sugar. 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put in saucepan and add 
sugar and water, bring to the boiling point and boil fifteen 
minutes. Strain and cool. 

For jelly use one-half cup sugar and one-quarter cup water 
and after straining put into molds. 

BAKED LEMON OB OBANOE 

Bake a lemon or a sour orange in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes, ^^^^.en done, open at one end and take out 

* Without sugar. 



the inside. Sweeten with sugar or molasses. Tliia ia excel- 
lent for hoaraenesa and pressure on the lungs. 

OBAiraE SUHFLOWEB 

Wash the orange. Put a three-lined fork into the stem 
end. Cut off each end down to pulp, leaving the stem end 
on fork, then pare off rind to pulp, cut out each section and 
place on small plate in sunflower fashion, the pieces of pulp 
for petals; fill centre with granulated sugar. Serve cold. 

Note. — To cut nicely have a large, firm, cold orange and 
a sharp knife. 

ORAKOE HO. U 
1 medium orange =^77 Calories. 

Select a large, firm orange; wash, cut and peel skin down 
in eight parts, leaving them connected to stem end of orange 
to form the petals, folding them under the pulp. Separate 
pnlp in sections and put ice between petals before serving, 

SATE SAirCE 
Prepare apples as for stewing and partially cook. Add 
equal quantity of stoned Dromedary Dates, and sugar to 
taste. Cook until dates are tender. Serve either hot or cold, 

DATES rOE TOUNQ CHIISB,£N 

Wash the dates and lay in water for fifteen minutes, then 
remove and dry ; take off the outer skin and remove the atone ; 
put through meat chopper; add two teaspoons of orange juice 
to each cup of dates. This ia good on toast or crackers and is 
very nourishing. It can be prepared and kept on hand sum- 
mer and winter. 

STEWED PXUHES 
3 prunes :^ 72 Calories. 

Wash and look over the pruuea, cover with clear cold water 
end allow to stand on the back of range over night In the 
morning put the saucepan where they will cook slowly for 
four hours. 



2S2 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Note. — No sugar is needed as prunes are 18 per cent, sugar, 
and by this manner of cooking are made very sweet. This 
simmering process renders them rich and Juicy, while boiling 
toughens the skin. A little lemon juice is a pleasant addi- 
tion. 

Prunes are a valuable nutrient, and their use as a laxative 
is scarcely second to figs. 

STEAMED KHTTBAKB, 234 CALOKIES i 

1 cup rhubarb (4 oz.). % to ^4 cup sugar. 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces without re- 
moving the skin, as this gives a pretty pink color to the juice. 
Put it into an agate double boiler without water and steam 
one-half hour, or until soft. Do not 'stir, as it breaks the 
pieces. Sweeten to taste at once on taking from fire. If 
rhubarb cooks a minute too long — which means after it has 
gone to pieces — it will lose its delicious flavor. 

STEWED PIOS, 936 CALOKIES 

Yz pound figs. 1 cup cold water. 

y^ cup white sugar. Juice ^ lemon. 

Wash figs. Dissolve sugar in the water ; add figs and bring 
slowly to boiling point. Stew two and one-half hours ; when 
tender, add lemon juice. 

Note. — Cut figs in small pieces ; cook very slowly so as 
not to add more water. 

DATE BON SONS 

1 date = 20-25 Calories. 

1 walnut meat = 6-8 Calories. 

Put salted almonds, or fourths of English walnuts into the 
inside of dates that have been cut open and stones removed. 
EoU in powdered or granulated sugar and serve. 

^Calculated with ^ cup sugar; with % cup sugar = 444 calories. 



NUTS 883 

NUTS I 



} Nuts enter but little into the invalid's dietary, but as more 

I attention is being paid to means of rendering tbem di- 
gestible, a word concerning them is not out of place. 

Composition. The edible substance of nuta is concentrated 
food, containing little water, and with few exceptions, much 
fat. In general, nuts are also rich in protein. The average 
composition is as follows: 

L Water 1-4% 

r Protein 6-15% 

FatB 40-50% 

CBrboIi;dTB,tes 6-10% 

The only common nut containing much carbohydrate is the 
chestnut, which containB 73 per cent. The piguolia, peanut, 
butternut, almond, beechnut and pistachio contain over 30 
per cent, of protein. The pecan, brazil nut, butternut, filbert, 
hickory nut and walnut contain over 60 per cent, of fat. 

The ash content is comparatively high. Walnuts, almonds, 
etc., are rich in phosphoric acid. 

Cooking of Nnts. Nuts are more often eaten raw than 
cooked. But the peanut is not considered palatable when raw, 
and the chestnut is very indigestible unless the starch is 
cooked, when it becomes very easily digestible. Almonds are 
widely used in confectionery. 

Nuts may he nsed as staple articles of diet, in salad, soups, 
desserts, etc. 

To insure the best utilization of nUts they must be thor- 
oughly prepared for digestion by grinding or mastication. 
Nut butters offer much less resistance to digestion than raw 
nuts hastily eaten. On account of the high fat content, 
these products must he fresh, or the fat is likely to decompose 
{become rancid) and be irritating. 

Nut flours and meals are made into bread or porridge. 
Almond meal (containing no starch and very little sugar) 
is often utilized as a bread for diabetica. The chestnut ean- 

> For tnrther InformaKon. note " Nali ind Their Uiea bb Pood." Farmer'! 
BoUatiB Ko. SS2, U. a. Dept. of Agriculture, WaihiDgtoD, D. C. 



■^^^^ 



284 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

not be 80 used, on account of its high content of starch. The 
peanut contains about 11 per cent, of carbohydrates, and 
hence is undesirable for this purpose. 

Digestihility. Nuts have been considered very indigestible. 
This is due largely to improper mastication or other prepara- 
tion for digestion; to the fact that they are a very concen- 
trated food, and are often eaten when not needed. While 
nut protein, as nuts are ordinarily eaten, is not so easily nor 
completely digested as meat protein, there are experiments 
showing that on the whole, they are as thoroughly digested 
as an ordinary mixed diet. No experiments have been re- 
ported on the ease or rapidity of nut digestion. 

Nutritive Value. Nuts are a concentrated food. This ia 
clearly shown by the following figures : 

1 lb. of Almonds, E. P.i yield 2936 Calories. 

1 lb. of Brazil nuts, E. P yield 3162 Calories. 

1 lb. of Filberts, E. P yield 3185 Calories. 

1 lb. of Hickory nuts, E. P yield 3238 Calories. 

1 lb. of Peanuts, E. P yield 2487 Calories. 

1 lb. of Walnuts, E. P yield 3199 Calories. 

The high fuel value is due to the absence of water and the 
large amount of fat present. Nuts can be most advan- 
tageously used along with bulky foods, such as fruits and 
vegetables, and those lacking in fat, such as bread. In a 
vegetarian diet they become a valuable source of protein. 

FTINOI AND ALOiE 

These substances have little nutritive value. They may be 
considered as food adjuncts, rather than foods proper. 

Of fungi, mushrooms are the most commonly eaten. Thev 
are prized for their delicate flavor. Chemical analysis shows 
a high percentage of nitrogen, but although reported as pro- 
tein, it is largely in an indigestible form. 

Algae and lichens are much used as food in some parts of 
the world and high claims are sometimes made for their 
nutritive value, but digestion experiments show that, although 

1 Edible portion. 



FUNOI AND ALO^ 286 

they have a similar carbohydrate content to other succulent 
vegetable foods, these carbohydrates are not attacked by the 
ordinary digestive enzymes of the alimentary tract. 

The most important alga, from the dietetic standpoint, is 
Irish moss. It is conunonly used in making jellies or sooth- 
ing beverages for invalids, but it has no nutritive value 
whatsoever. 

The lichen most used as food is Iceland moss. It has 
frequently been recommended as a food for diabetics, but it 
is practically indigestible. 



CHAPTEE XI 
NVTEITIOTrS DESSERTS 

HOT AND COLD BESSEBTS — FBOZEN DESSEBT8 

SOFT CTJSTAKBS, BAKED CTJSTABDS, WHIPS AND SOirFFLES, 
JTTNXET, COBNSTAKCH PUDDINGS OB BLANC ICANOE, BICE, 
TAPIOCA, CBACEEB AND BBEAD PUDDINGS, SAUCES 

Properly prepared, the dessert may constitute a very large 
part of the nutriment represented in a meal. Dishes con- 
taining eggs, milk, cream, starches, etc., in large proportion 
are necessarily of high nutritive value, and become a useful 
means of administering these foods to patients who do not 
care for the flavor of plain milk, raw eggs, cereals, etc., or 
who are likely to become tired of them. For invalids, com- 
binations of foods should always be simple, because the more 
complex the mixture of protein, fat and carbohydrate, the 
longer and more complicated is the process of digestion. 
Hence junket, which is simply flavored, coagulated milk, is 
one of the most digestible of desserts. As a rule, less sugar 
is relished in sickness than in health; an excess is apt to 
cause nausea. 

Dainty service is most important. Baked custards and 
junkets are usually best served in the original individual 
molds to avoid danger of breaking, or in case of junket, of 
becoming watery. Sauces should never be poured over pud- 
dings till the moment of serving. Care must be taken to 
see that cold desserts are thoroughly chilled; a lukewarm 
custard is frequently nauseating and always unappetizing. 

For the Diabetic. Sugar must be replaced by sweetina or 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but it has no 
food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 249. 

286 



SOFT CUSTARDS 287 

SOFT CTJSTAEDS 

SOFT CTJSTABD NO. I, 192 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. ^ cup milk. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Beat yolk, add salt and sugar 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Pour back into 
top of double boiler and stir constantly until it looks creamy 
or it coats the spoon and the foam has disappeared; then re- 
move inmiediately from hot water. Cool and add flavoring 
desired; vanilla, orange or lemon extract. 

Note. — If custard curdles, place saucepan over cold water 
and beat until smooth. 

This custard is usually used for pudding sauces. 

SOFT CTJSTAKD NO. U, 410 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup milk. % teaspoon salt. 

2 eggs. % teaspoon vanilla or grating of 
2 tablespoons sugar. nutmeg. 

Reserve one egg white for meringue. Blend according to 
Soft Custard No. I. This custard is usually used as a 
foundation for puddings. 

SOFT CTJSTABI) WITH LACTOSE, 500 CALOBIES i 

Calories 

8 ounces milk ( 1 cup) 160 

1 egg 80 

2 ounces of milk sugar (about 4 tablespoons) 240 

Speck of salt 

2 to 3 drops of vanilla or Caramel made of 3 tablespoons 
of granulated sugar 20 (?) 

500 

Blend according to Soft Custard No. 1. To make caramel : 
put the sugar in a pan directly over heat and bum until a 
very dark brown. Dissolve in hot water or milk. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



288 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

HEBINGITE, 110 CALOBIES i 

1 egg white. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Speck salt. Lemon or orange juice. 

Beat the egg until stiflP and dry; add the salt, sugar and 
lemon juice to taste. Beat very little after adding the sugar. 

FLOATING ISLAND, 506 CALOBIES 

Chill Soft Custard No. II ; pour into serving dish and put 
meringue on top. 

OBANOE CTJSTABD 

Peel, slice and remove seeds of oranges, put into serving 
dish. Chill Soft Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put 
meringue on top. 

BANANA CTJSTABD 

Peel bananas and slice very thin with silver knife; put 
into serving dish and flavor with lemon juice. Chill Soft 
Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

ALMOND PUDDING 

Line a glass dish with slices of stale cake and put in some 
salted almonds. Pour a little sherry wine on the cake. Chill 
Soft Custard No. II and pour over. Put meringue on top, 
with some salted almonds in it. 

BAKED CTJSTAEDS 

BAKED OB CUP CXTSTABD, 319 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. 1^/^ tablespoon sugar. 

1 egg, % teaspoon salt. 

Flavoring to taste — nutmeg, cinnamon, vanilla, or lemon extract 

Scald the milk; beat egg, add sugar and salt and pour on 
gradually the scalded milk. Flavor to taste and pour into 
custard cups; place in deep pan and pour boiling water 

1 Without lemon and orange juice. 



BAKED CUSTARDS 289 

around until it almost reaches the top of enps. Bake in 
moderate oven about twenty miuutea. If cinnamon is used 
for flsYor, put one-ialf square inch into the milk when acald- 
iog. 

Note. — To test when done, dip a pointed knife into water 
and plunge into the middle of the custard. If it looks set 
and the koife comes out clear, the custard is done ; if milky, 
it is not cooked enough. If cooked too long the custard will 
curdle. 

BAKED CUSTAES SO. II, 262 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. M2 teaspoon aalt. 

1 egg. Nutmeg. 

IVi tableapoon augar. V4 teaspoon vanilla. 

Blend according to Baked Custard No. I. 
The smaller quantity of milk makes a little firmer custard. 
WaiTE CirSTASD, 163 CALORIES 
I egg white. 14 saltspoan salt 

1 tablespoon sugar. J4 '^"P ^i<^ milk. 

Beat white of egg until very light; add sugar and salt 
and pour on gradually the milk. Flavor with vanilla, orange 
or lemon extract. Bake in cups set in pan of boiling water 
in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. \?hen firm set 
on ice and serve cold. This may be taken by patient when the 
yolk of egg is prohibited. 

CHOCOUITE CUSTARD, 250 CAIOBIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's choc- 2 egg jolks. 
olate. 2 teBEpoona BUgar. 

2 tablespoons milk. Speck salt. 

6 tablespoons ricb milk , 

Orate chocolate and mix with the two tablespoons milk; 
stir over the fire until smooth, add the rich milk, the well- 
beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard cups set 
in pan of hot water (nearly to the top). Cook until custard 
is set. Serve hot or cold. 



290 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

HALTED MILK CTTSTABD, 121 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % c^P ^^t water. 

Milk. Salt. 

1 egg yolk. 

Mix the Malted Milk powder with enough of the hot 
water to make a smooth paste, add remainder of water and 
pour it gradually on to the well-beaten yolk. Butter custard 
cup, pour in the mixture and let it stand in a pan of boil- 
ing water in a moderate oven until custard is set. 

BAKED CABAHEL CUSTAKD, 293 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

1 Qgg, A few drops of vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Scald the milk. Put two tablespoons sugar in a small 
saucepan, place over heat and stir constantly until the sugar 
is melted and a light brown color. Add milk and pour over 
the slightly-beaten Qgg. Add one tablespoon sugar and flavor- 
ing. Strain into buttered custard cups, place in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm in a slow oven. 

BAKED CUSTABD WITH LACTOSE, 360 CALOBIES i 

Calories 

1% ounces of milk sugar (about 2% tablespoons) 160 

6 ounces of milk ( 12 tablespoons) 120 

1 egg 80 

Nutmeg or vanila 

Speck of salt 

Beat the ^gg slightly. Warm the sugar and milk, stirring 
constantly, add to the ^gg, strain into a custard cup, and 
flavor. Bake in a pan of water in a moderate oven until a 
knife when cut into it will come out clean (30 minutes to 1 
hour) . 

WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 

Dainty and nutritious ways to serve the uncooked and 
slightly cooked white of eggs. 

^tw W. Colpman, American Journal of Medical. Sciencea, January, 1918. 



WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 291 

PBTIIT WHIP, 125-150 CALOEIES 

(Two Servings.) 
Any fruit, fresh, canned or dried (properly prepared), or 
jellies may be used. 
2 to 4 tablespoons fruit pulp. 2 tablespoons powdered HUgai 

Wliite 1 egg. (or to taste). 

Lemon juice. 

Prepare the fruit pulp by scraping, grating or rubbing 
through a strainer. Beat the white of egg on platter until 
Btiff. Add pulp, sugar and lemon juice to taste, and beat 
until very stiff. Heap in center of serving dish and pour 
Soft Custard No. I around it. 

Note. — The apple is a. favorite fruit for these whips. 
The juice of freah fruits in season used with the raw white 
of egg makes an appetizing as well as a very nutritious lunch 
for the sick. 

STRAWBEEBY WHIP, 327 CALOBIES 

(Four Servings.) 
1 cup fresh strawberries. ^^ cup powdered sugar. 

Whites 2 ^gB. 

Wash and hull the strawberries and mash slightly. Beat 
whites of eggs until stiff, add augar and berries; beat until 
very stiff, using a broad bowl and a wire egg-beater, beating 
with a long, steady stroke. Pile lightly in a glass dish and 
serve with white or sponge cake, 

QEAPE WHIP, 1357 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 



Beat the white of egg until foamy, add the grape juice 
mixed with the sugar and, lastly, the cream, then beat with 
a whip churn. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on 
a sieve. Pour the unwhipped mixture into small, high glasaea 
and pile the whip on top. Serve cold. 



292 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

OXELET SOTTPPLE, 230 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 e^. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. Strawberry or fruit jam. 

To the well-beaten yolk add the sugar, salt, lemon juice 
and rind. Beat the whites to the stiffest possible froth, then 
cut and fold into the yolk. Have ready a small baking dish, 
buttered and spread with a layer of the fruit ; pour the omelet 
over it and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Test as for baked custard. Serve at once. 

Note. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere me 
dicinally. 

CirSTABD SOTTPFLE, 279 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% tablespoon butter. Yolk 1 egg. 

1% tablespoons flour. 1^4 tablespoons sugar. 

y^ cup scalded milk. White 1 egg. 

Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalding milk. 
Cook thoroughly, pour on to the well-beaten yolk, add sugar 
and cool. Fold into mixture the well-beaten white. Turn 
into buttered custard cups and bake about fifteen m.inute8, 
until firm — determined by pressing with the finger. Take 
from oven and serve at once, or it will fall. Serve witii 
Foamy Sauce. 

LEMON SOUFFLE, 275 CALOBIBS 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg, ^4, cup sugar. 

Juice 14 lemon. White 1 egg. 

Thoroughly beat yolk, add sugar, slowly, beating con- 
stantly; add lemon juice. Fold in the white beaten until 
dry. Pour into buttered custard cups, set in pan of hot 
water and bake twenty minutes or until firm, testing by press- 
ing with finger. Serve plain or with Foamy Sauce. 

1 Without jam. 



^^^H^^ JUNKET 293 I 

r PEACE UEBIHOirE. 210 CAX0BJE8 ^ ■ 

I (Individual Rulu.) I 

P 1 cup yellow peaches. Bread crumba. , ' 

' Sugar to taste. White 1 egg. 

I Yolk I egg. 1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 

Stew peaches in a very little water, sweeten to taste and 
stir in ttie well-beaten jolk. Butter a pudding dish and 
cover bottom with fine bread crumbs, put in the peaches and 
, bake fifteen minutes. Cover with jneringue made of white 
of egg and the powdered sugar; brown slightly in the oven. 
Serve cold. 

JUNKET 

Junket ia a healthful and dainty dessert made simply of 
pure milk, and containing enough of the active principle 
of rennet found in the Junket Tablet to coagulate tlie milk. 
It is nutritious and has the added advantage of being easily 
digested. 

Milk or cream that has been boiled, sterilized, condensed 
or evaporated cannot be used in making junket, and care 
must he taken not to heat the milk more than lukewarm, as 
hot milk spoils the action of the tablet. 

For diabetic patients saccharin may be used as a substitute 
for sugar in these recipes. 

PLAIIr JUNKET, a»S CALOKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. ^ Junket Tablet. 

2 tahlespoona BURHr. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
'/^ teaspoon brandy or wine. i 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add sugar and flavoring; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Pour mixture immediately into sherbet cups or cham- 
pagne glasses, partly fill. Stand in warm room undisturbed 
until firm like jelly, then put on ice to cooi. Serve with 
whipped cream heaped on top, with one-half teaspoon bright 
jelly for garnish. 

> Wllboul breid rrumfa) Biid lURir. 



294 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — For variety, whole strawberries or raspberries may 
be served with junket, or chopped English walnuts with the 
whipped cream. For garnish, candied cherries may be used. 

If desired, the brandy and sugar may be omitted in making 
jimket and served plain, with sugar and a grating of nutmeg. 

CTTSTABD JUNKET, 512 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg, y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons sugar. ^ Junket Tablet. 

% cup lukewarm milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

Beat the egg, add two tablespoons sugar; pour on grad- 
ually the hot milk. Cook in top of double boiler; stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; take at once from the fire and cooL 
Mix two tablespoons sugar with the lukewarm milk, add to 
the cooled custard and blend thoroughly. When lukewarm 
add vanilla and the tablet dissolved in cold water; finish as 
for Plain Junket. 

COCOA JUNKET, 260 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon cocoa. % Junket Tablet. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
2 tablespoons boiling water. 3 drops vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix the cocoa, sugar, boiling water, and cook over heat 
and rub to a smooth paste; add gradually the fresh cool 
milk. Heat until lukewarm (not more), add vanilla and 
then tablet dissolved in the cold water. Finish as for Plain 
Junket and serve with sweetened cream or a Soft Custard. 

PLAIN AND COCOA JUNKET WITH LACTOSE, 250 CALOBIES i 

Calories 

1 teaspoonful of cocoa 50 

25 graras of milk sugar (scant 2 tablespoons) 100 

5 ounces of milk ( 10 tablespoons) 100 

% junket tablet dissolved in 1 ounce of cold water 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the milk, and heat lukewann, 
stirring constantly; add the dissolved junket, stir thoroughly, 
and leave in a cool place to set. For plain junket omit cocoa. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING OR BLANC MANGE 395 

CORNSTABCH PUDDING OS BLANC lUNOE 

Starch of various kinds is used in milk puddings. For 
children, invalids and dyspeptics such puddings are admirable. 
They must be thoroughly cooked, that the action of the heat 
may affect the starch. The combinatioD of starch and milk 
gives a wholesome nutritive food, and the addition of eggs 
increases the food value, 

COSHSTAKCH FUODIXG, 329 CALOItlEB 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

I'/i tablespoona cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

I'/ii tablespooiiB Bugar. Tanilla. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar 
and salt thoroughly; add slowly the scalded milk, stirring 
constantly. Return to top of boiler and cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly for the first five or six minutes, then 
occasionally. Remove from fire and while very hot fold in 
lightly, hut thoroughly, the well-beaten white of egg. ^Tien 
partially cooled add flavoring to taste; put into wet cups 
or molds, cool and then stand for several hours on ice. Ee- 
move from molds. Serve with a soft custard, mashed fresh 
berries, or whipped cream. Vary the pudding by adding a 
little Walter Baker's chocolate, melted, 

PINEAPPLE CBEAH, 340 CALORQIB 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

1V4 tablespoons cornstarch. "White 1 egg. 

V/i tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons grated pineapple. 

Follow directions for Cornstarch Pudding, adding the 
pineapple instead of vanilla. Pour into individual molds 
and serve cold with cream. 

COBITSTABCH FKUIT JEXLY, 166 CALOSIES i 

(Two Servings.) 
I cup raspberiy juice. " tablespoons cornatarch. 



296 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Sweeten the juice to taste and heat to boiling point. Make 
a smooth paste of the cornstarch and a little cold water^ add 
slowly to the juice and cook thirty minutes in top of double 
boiler, stirring constantly at first. Pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold with whipped cream and fresh, whole berries. 

MALTED MILK BLANC MANGE, MO CAL0BIE8 

(Two Servings.) 

2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted Speck salt. 

Milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons powdered arrow- 1^^ cups boiling water, 
root. y^ teaspoon yanilla. 

Mix the arrowroot and Malted Milk powder with a little 
cold water into a smooth paste. Add the boiling water slowly, 
cook in double boiler about twenty minutes, or until arrow- 
root is thoroughly cooked, add vanilla and pour into cold, 
wet molds. Chill and serve with Soft Custard or whipped 
cream. 

Note. — One teaspoon powdered coffee may be added to 
above before Jooking, for Coffee Blanc Mange. 

NUTRITIOTTS WHEAT PTJDDINO, 252 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. White 1 egg. 

2*4 tablespoons flour. ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Blend flour with a little of the cold milk. Scald remainder 
of milk and add flour mixture; cook thoroughly; add salt 
and flavoring and fold in the white of egg beaten slightly. 
Put into cold, wet mold, cool and set in ice box to harden. 
Serve with Soft Custard or whipped cream, or sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and pour over it one-fourth cup of fresh 
fruit juice or crushed fruit. 

GLUTEN PTTDDING, 861 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

3 tablespoons gluten flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 pint hot milk. ^ teaspoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk. Cinnamon. 

1 egg. Saccharin. 



EICE PUDDINGS 397 

Blend gluten flour with a little of the cold milk, add 
gradually to one pint hot milk. Cook thoroughly. Beat egg, 
add cold milk, the cooked mixture and salt, cinnamon and 
saccharin to taste. Bake thirty minutes. A little fruit im- 
proves the flavor. Serve with whipped cream. 

miSE MOSS J£LLT, 677 CAXOSIES 

(Three Servinga,} 
Vi cup Irish moaa. Juice 1 lemon or orange. 

2 iiupa boiling water, i/g cup eugar. 

4 figB. 

Soak, pick over and wash the mosa. Put it into the boil- 
ing water, add the figs cut into strips and simvier about > 
twenty minuteH, or until it is very thick when dropped on 
a cold plate. Add lemon juice and sugar. Strain into a 
cold, wet mold. 

IEI8E UOSS BLAKC HANGE, 296 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
y cup Irish moss. iig ttiaspooii milt. 

I'/a cups eold water. Vs teaspoon vanilla. 

1% cups milk. 

Soak the moss in cold water about fifteen minutes. Re- 
move from water, pick over and put into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook about twenty minutes, or until it thickens 
when dropped on a cold plate. Add salt, strain and flavor. 
Strain again and turn into small cold, wet molds. Chill and. 
Berre with cream and sugar or sliced fruit. 

RICE PUDDINGS 
BOILED RICE, lOD CALORIES 

(Individual Kule.) 
Z tablespoons rice. 1/3 teaspoon Bait. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Wash rice thoroughly and add gradually to the boiling 
salted water, care being taken that the water does not stop 
boiling. Boil uncovered twenty minutes, or until grains 



\ 



298 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

are soft. Turn into a strainer and pour over it one cup of 
hot water and drain, put in oven a few moments to dry, with 
oven door open. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream or 
as a pudding with cooked dates and whipped cream, or plain 
with Soft Custard. 

Note. — Keep rice well covered with water while cooking. 

Dates. — Cut in small pieces, add a little water to partly 
cover and cook until soft. Simmer and do not stir. 

STEAXED BICE, 265 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Va cup rice. 14 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pick over the rice, wash in three or four waters; put it 
with the boiling water and salt in upper part of double 
boiler. Do not stir while cooking. Steam one hour, or until 
the grains are tender. * Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream 
or as a pudding with Soft Custard, or with sugar and cream. 

Note. — A few dates cut in narrow strips may be added 
just before serving if desired. Part milk may be used in 
the cooking. 

PEACHES AND BICE 

Serve boiled or steamed rice with sections of fresh, juicy 
peaches, or with fresh berries. Serve with sugar and cream. 

DATES AND BICE, 1035 CALOBIES 

1 tablespoon sugar. . % cup boiling water. 

1 cup Dromedary Dates. 1 cup boiled or steamed rice. 

Put dates, sugar and boiling water in sauce pan and sim- 
mer three minutes. Make border around serving dish with 
the boiled or steamed rice and fill center with the date mix- 
ture. Serve with cream. 

SOTTTHEBN SNOWBALLS, 367 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ cup rice. ^^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Pick over rice, wash in several waters and put with milk 
and salt in top of double boiler. Cook until the milk is ab- 
Borbed and rice is tender. Do not sUt ^hile cooking. Dip 



RICE PUSDINGS 299 

egg cups m cold water and pack with rice carefully bat 
tightly, turn out on serving dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, p\it a candied cherry or a strawberry on top, and serve 
with whipped cream, 

PLAIN RICE fUimillG, 709 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup ateamed rice. 2 tableapoons sugar. 

1 cup scnlded milk, ^ teaspoon salt. 

■ijl tahleepoon butter. ■^ cup stoned taisins. 

1 egg. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat egg, add sugar and salt 
and pour on slowly the scalding milk. Put in pudding dish 
with rice and raisins. Bake in a moderate oven until custard 
is set. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in case of bowel trouble, 

RICE MERIiratJE, 526 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
14 cup cold cooked riee. Egg yolk, 

1 cup scalded tnilk. Vanilla. 

2Vi tablespoona sugar. 1 egg white. 

V4 saltspoon salt. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Blend rice and milk and soak until soft. Beat the yolk, 
add sugar and salt and gradually the hot milk and rice. 
Cook until it thickens like soft custard. Add flavoring to 
taste and pour into pudding dish or custard cups. Make a 
meringue of the white of egg and powdered sugar, cover the 
pudding and brown slightly in the oven. 

CREAH OF BICE FnHDIfiO, 657 CALD&IEB 

(Three Servings.) 
y^ cup rice (well wnahed). Vi teaiipoon aalt. 

2 tableepoona eugar. 1 pint milk. 
Umted rind of 1^ lemon. 

Mix all ingredients in a small baking dish. Bake two 
hours, slowly at first until rice la softened and thickened in 
the milk. Cut the crust several times, stirring to the bottom 
gently. The crust will then dissolve in the pudding, giving 
it a creamy color. Then let it brown slightly. 



300 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 

TAPIOCA CBEAM, 483 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

ll^ tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
11/2 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg, 

% teaspoon salt. Flavoring. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; 
add slowly to the scalding milk, return to double boiler and 
cook fifteen minutes. Add the yolk and white of the egg, 
beaten separately. Eemove from fire and add flavoring de- 
sired. Serve plain or with any fresh fruit in season. 

PLAIN TAPIOCA, 451 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

IV2 tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 14 cup raisins. 

Salt. Nutmeg. 

Scald milk in double boiler and gradually add the tapioca 
and sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Add salt, nutmeg to taste 
and seeded raisins. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Note. — Eaisins should never be used in bowel trouble. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA, 718 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

% cup Minute tapioca. 1% cups boiling water. 

% cup sugar. 1 cup canned grated pineapple. 

Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler until clear, about fifteen min- 
utes. Pour over the grated pineapple and decorate the top 
of the pudding with currant jelly. 

APPLE TAPIOCA, 345 CALORIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 

l^ cup Minute tapioca. 1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 3 tart apples. 

Speck salt. Sugar, nutmeg. 

^ Without extra sugar. 



TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 301 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
TFateij and cook in double boiler fifteen minuteB. Pour this 
onto the apples, which have been pared and cored and the 
holes filled with eugar and a little nutmeg. Cover tlie dish 
and bake one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

BASPBEBST TAPIOCA, 21B CAIOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 
IVi tableBpoons Minute tapioca. '/^ eup raspberry juice, 
ly, tablespoons sugar. Juiee '/^ lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. Speck Bait. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add rasp- 
berry and lemon juice. When it begins to jelly, beat smooth 
with a spoon. Serve plain or -with whipped cream. 

BATS TAPIOCA, 680 CAIOBIES 

(Tliree Servings.) 
V/i tableBpoona Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
1 tabli^spoon sugar. 1 egg. 

% teaspoon salt. V*. cup chopped dates. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; add gradually the hot milk 
and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add the beaten 
egg yolk and cook three minutes longer. Stir in the dates. 
Make a meringue of the white of egg, heap it on top and 
brown delicately in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE OB COCOA BLAITC UANOE, 827 CAIOBIES i 

(Three Servings.) 
% cup Minute tapioca. 1% cups hot chocolate or cocoa. 

Yt cup sugar. Vt teaspoon vanilla. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt: pour on gradually the hot 
cocoa and cook in double boiler about twenty minutes. Re- 
move from heat, add vaniJia and pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold, plain or with whipped cream or Soft Custard, 

' OalcnlBUd vilh choeoUts, ladpa page 135. 



te 



302 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



BSEAD PUDDINGS 

The principle of employing farinaceous matter which has 
already been subjected to heat (so that a considerable con- 
version of starch has gone on before the human salivary 
diastase comes into play) is carried out in practice in the 
form of bread puddings. 

PLAIN BBEAD PUDDING, 900 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread. 2 tablespoons sugar (to taste)* 

1 cup milk. % teaspoon salt.. 

1 tablespoon butter. ^ cup seeded raisins. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg and add sugar 
and salt; pour on gradually ttie scalding milk. Cut the 
bread into one-half inch cubes and add with the raisins. 
Pour into well-buttered pudding dish, put bits of butter on 
top and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 
Serve with Hard Sauce or cream and sugar. 

Note. — Do not serve raisins in bowel trouble. 

ORANGE BBEAD PTJDDING, 919 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup stale bread. 2 oranges. 

% cup milk. 6 tablespoons sugar. 

2 eggs. 

Soak bread in the milk until soft and beat lightly with 
fork; add the grated rind of one orange and the juice of 
both; sweeten. Beat the whites very light and add to above 
mixture. Pour into custard cups and cook as for baked cus- 
tard — about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve plain or with 
Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Omit orange rind if it will interfere medicinally. 



BREAD PUDDINGS 303 

LEUOB BKEAD FTTSDIITG, 643 CALDSIE8 

(Two Sen'inga.) 
yj cup milk. 3 tablespoons sugar, 

'/a pup soft bread crumba. '/j tablespoon butter. 

Yolk 1 egg. Grated rind ^ lemon. 

Speck salt. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg yolk, add sugar 
and salt and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Add the 
bread crumba and grated lemon rind; pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes, or until set like baked custard. 

Make a meringue by beating the white of egg very stiff, 
adding two tablespoons powdered sugar and juice of one- 
fourth lemon. Cover the pudding with it and set in the 
oven till a dainty brown. 

Kote. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere medici- 
nally. For the crumbs, rub soft bread through a coarse 
strainer. 

niXT BKEAS PUDSUTQ 
Prepare the same as for Lemon Bread Pudding, omitting 
the lemon rind and juice. Spread any tart jelly over pudding 
when baked and add meringue. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD FtTDDINO, 904 GALORIEB 
(Two Servings.) 
^ cup stale bread crumbs. 2V2 tableapoons sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

% square Walter Baker's un- Speck salt. 

Bweetened ch<iciilat«. V* teaspoon vanilla. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Melt chocolate over hot water 
and add to it the sugar and salt. To the chocolate mixture, 
add the soaked crumbs, tlie beaten egg and vanilla. Put into 
buttered custard cups and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, or until custard is set. Serve hot, plain or 
with Hard Sauce. 



304 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

LACTOSE BBEAD PTTDDINQ, 660 CALOBIES i 

Caloriei 

1% ounces of milk sugar (about 3 tablespoons) 180 

6 ounces of milk ( 12 tablespoons) 120 

1 egg 80 

1 slice of bread ( % inch thick ) 60 

% ounce of butter ( 1 level tablespoon) 120 

Spread the bread with butter and cut into squares. Beat 
the egg slightly; heat the milk and sugar, stirring constantly; 
mix with the egg and pour over the bread. Grate nutmeg 
over the top and bake the same as the custard. 

BROWN BETTY, 270 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Bread crumbs. Sugar. 

1 large sour apple. Cinnamon. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place a layer 
of bread crumbs; into this put one-half apple cooked as for 
apple sauce or raw cut in thin slices or chopped ; season with 
sugar, speck of cinnamon and bits of butter. Add another 
layer of crumbs, then the remaining half of apple and season- 
ing, lastly crumbs. Place bits of butter on top, put in slow 
oven and bake. (Calculated with 2 teaspoons sugar and one 
slice of bread.) 

CBACEEB PUDDINGS 

CBACKEB FTTDDING, 397 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

lYz soda crackers. Yolk 1 egg, 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% teaspoon salt. 

EoU the crackers and soak in the milk. Beat yolks and 
sugar well together and add to pudding with salt. Bake 
one-half hour. Make a meringue with the whites of the 
eggs, pile lightly on top and put in oven till golden brown. 
Serve hot. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Sciencet, January, 1918. 



PUDDING SAUCES 305 

PUDDING SATTCES 
UABD SADCE, 650 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
3 tableapoona butter. '^ white of egg. 

6 tablespoons powdered sugar. '^ tablespoon cream. 
Nutmeg. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually. When light and 
creamy add the unbeaten white of egg and the cream, a drop 
or two at a time. Season highly. Heap on serving dish and 
cool. 

rOASY SAUCE, BG3 CALORIES 
(Three Servings.) 
'/i cop butter. Yi egg. 

'A tup powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon wine. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, the well-beateu egg 
and the wine. Heat over hot water, beating eonatantly. 
Serve immediately. 

TAHILLA SArCE, 484 CALORIES 

2 tableBpoons butter. Vi cup augar. 

2 tableBpoons flour. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Mix butter and flour and stir until smooth, add the boiling 
water and sugar. Cook thoroughly. Add flavoring and 
serve. Corn stiirrh may be substituted for the flour. 
GOLD SAUCE. 832 CALORIES 
Yolk 2 egga. Lemon juice or vanilla. 

I cup powdered sugar. 

Beat yolks very light and add powdered sngar gradually, 

beating constantly. Add seasoning and serve. 

TO WHIP CREAK 

y, cup thick tream ( 40% ] = 432 Calories. 

Do not have cream too thick ; season with sugar and any 

flavoring desired ; put in bowl and Bet bowl in another utensil 

containing a little cold water and ice. Beat cream with Dover 



306 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

egg-beater until stiflE enough to keep its form. Set on ice to 
keep cold. 

Note. — Do not beat too long or it may turn to butter. To 
one-half cup thick cream add three tablespoons milk. 

WHIFFED CREAM NO. H. 
1 egg white = 10 to 15 Calories. 

Follow the above recipe, and add the white of one egg 
beaten stiff, folding it into the stiffly-beaten cream. 

FBTTIT SATTCE, 75 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

6 tablespoons fruit juice. ^ teaspoon arrowroot or corn- 

starch. 

Blend starch with a little cold water and pour into the 
hot fruit juice. Boil two or three minutes. Sweeten if de- 
sired. 

ORANGE SAirCE 

See chapter " Gelatin ^^ for recipe. Page 210. 

FBOZEN DESSEBT 

ICE CREAM — SHERBET — ICES 

Frozen dishes not only constitute an acceptable form of 
serving nutriment, but often are a means of furnishing addi- 
tional liquid and relieving thirst. Ices and sherbets made 
with fruits and water, have a dietetic value similar to acid 
beverages. Frozen cream, milk, junkets, custards, etc., have 
the same nutritive value as the same foods served without 
freezing. 

In giving all very cold dishes, care must be taken not to 
interfere with the digestion of other foods. Chilling the 
mouth hinders the formation and activity of saliva; chilling 
the stomach retards gastric digestion. The latter effect can 
be avoided by eating ice-cold food very slowly, so that it is 
partially warmed before reaching the stomach. Frozen foods 
should not be given when ptyalin digestion is especially im- 
portant. 



ICE GEE AM 307 

Qeneral Rules for Freezing. Ice (or snow) and salt are 
required for the process of freezing. The salt melts the ice, 
and in melting absorbs heat from the mixture, thus causing it 
to freeze. The finer the ice, the more quickly the freezing 
will be accomplished. In packing a freezer allow three level 
measures of ice to one of salt. This proportion is found beat 
for fine-grained mixture. The can should not be filled more 
than three-fourths full, as the liquid expands in freezing, an& 
if over-crowded, the cream will become coarse-graihed and the 
cover may he pushed up allowing the salt water to get in. 

Freezing in Small Amounts. Put mixture to be frozen 
into a water-tight baking powder can, or a small tin pail with 
cover, and stand in large pail or bowl. Pack the ice and salt 
alternately under and around it (ice pounded fine), using 
one part salt to three parts iee. Eemove cover, and beat 
mixture with Dover egg-heater until foamy, replace cover and 
turn can, or pail, back and forth; remove cover occasionally 
and scrape the frozen mixture from aide of can, and beat 
thoroughly with fork. The mixture will freeze in twenty 
minutes. When frozen, place a narrow strip of cloth, dipped 
in melted beef fat or lard, around the outside of cover to keep 
out the salt water. Repack in ice, or ice and salt, and cover 
well until wanted. 

Serve frozen dishes in sherbet, champagne, or high glasses ; 
pass on small plate covered with doily, and at the side of the 
plate a small cake, wafer or a few orange straws may be 
added; a rose will add to the attractiveness. 

For the Diabetic. Sugar must be replaced by swcetina or 
saccharin. It is many times sweeter than sugar but it has no 
food value. Note Sugar Substitutes, page 249. 

ICE CKEAM 
TAHILLA ICE CEEAM, 310 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 
% rup thin cream or M run '/- teaBpoon vanilla. 

heavy cream and ',i cup milk. Speck bhU, 
1% tabli-fipoonrt sugar. 
1 CklcuLaUd Willi UUn aream. 



1 



308 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Blend all the ingredients; when sugar is dissolved, freeze 
in a small pail according to general directions. 

VANILLA ICE CBEAM WITH LACTOSE, 520 CALOBIES i 

Calories 

4 ounces of cream ( ^ pint or % cup) 240 

2 ounces of milk (4 tablespoons) 40 

2 ounces of milk sugar (about 4 level tablespoons) 240 

Speck of salt 

Few drops of vanilla 

520 

Mix cream, milk, and sugar, and heat, stirring constantly, 
until the sugar is dissolved. Then flavor, cool, and freeze. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM, 353 CALOBIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

^ cup thin cream or ^ cup l^ tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and ^ cup milk. 1 tablespoon boiling water. 
^ square Walter Baker's choco- % teaspoon vanilla. 

late. Speck salt. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling water, 
sugar and hot cream. Cool, add vanilla and salt and freeze 
in small pail according to general directions. 

Note. — To make a large quantity, double recipe as many times as 
desired. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM, 352 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup thin cream or ^ cup l^ tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and % cup milk. Speck salt. 
1 tablespoon ground coffee. ^ cup milk. 

Mix cofifee and milk, put into double boiler and cook five 
minutes. Strain through cheese-cloth and strainer; add 
sugar, salt and cream. Cool and freeze in small pail, accord- 
ing to general directions. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Seieneea, January, 1916 

2 Calculated with thin cream. 



ICE CREAM 309 

QBAPE JinCE ICE CREAM, 490 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup thin cream. ^ cup sugar. 

% cup grape juice. 

Scald one-half cup of the cream and add the sugar. Cool, 
add remainder of cream and the grape juice and freeze accord- 
ing to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM, 356 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup thin cream or l^ cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and l^ cup milk. Speck salt. 
Va cup strawberries. 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar and allow them to 
stand five minutes. Add the cream and milk and freeze in 
small pail according to general directions. 

Note. — The berries may be mashed and strained through 
cheese-cloth. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM, 363 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Y2 cup thin cream or ^ cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and l^ cup milk. Speck salt. 
l^ cup raspberries. 

Mash the raspberries and strain through cheese-cloth. Add 
cream, milk and sugar. Freeze in small pail according to 
general directions. 

PEACH ICE CREAM, 390 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup thin cream or ^ cup 14 cup peaches, 
heavy cream and ^ cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Mix peaches and sugar and press through a potato-ricer 
or sieve. Scald cream and milk. Cool and add peaches and 
sugar. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 



310 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CABAKEL ICE CREAM, 340 CALOBIES 

( Individual Rule. ) 

^ cup thin cream or ^ cup 1^ tablespoons boiling water. 

thick cream and y^ cup milk. Vs teaspoon vanilla. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Speck salt. 

Into saucepan place the sugar and stir constantly until 
melted. Add water and boil until reduced to one and one- 
half tablespoon. Add cream very slowly, vanilla, salt, and 
freeze. 

CABAliEL ICE CBEAH NO. II, 5942 CALOBIES 

(Ten Servings.) 

1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 quart cream. 
1 scant cup sugar for caramel. 

Scald the milk ; mix one cup sugar, flour and salt, add the 
eggs and beat all together until perfectly smooth and light. 
Add the scalding milk gradually, beating until very smooth. 
Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 

While cooking, prepare caramel. Put the second cup of 
sugar in saute pan, and cook until melted and a delicate 
brown ; add gradually the custard, stirring constantly ; strain 
and cool. Add the cream (which has been scalded and 
cooled) and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — This may be used for vanilla ice-cream by omit- 
ting the caramel and using one tablespoon vanilla and enough 
of the second cup of sugar to sweeten. 

MALTED MILK ICE CREAM, 3900 CALORIES i 

(Ten Servings.) 

l^ pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 pint cream. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

1 quart water. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
White 1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, sugar and boiling water, stir- 
ring until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate and 
cook until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla, cool and freeze. 

1 Thick cream. 



ICE CREAM 311 

When partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg, and 
finish freezing. 

Note. — If strawberry or other flavor is desired, it may be 
used in place of vanilla. 

JTTHKET ICE CREAM, 2379 CALORIES 

1 cup thick cream. % tablespoon vanilla. 

L quart rich milk. 1 junket tablet dissolved in 

L cup sugar. 1 tablespoon cold water. 

Heat the milk and sugar to luke warm. Add the dissolved 
junket and the vanilla. Allow to jelly in warm place and 
then freeze. 

FROZEN CUSTARD, 349 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg, y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt and gradually the 
scalded milk. Cool, add flavoring and freeze. 

HOT COCOA SATTCE FOR ICE CREAM, 1035 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1% cups water. 2 tablespoons Walter Baker's co- 

1 cup sugar. coa. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Boil together the water and sugar for two minutes; add 
the arrowroot mixed with a little cold water, stir for a mo- 
ment, then boil until clear. Add the cocoa, which has been 
mixed with a little hot water, and the salt, and boil three 
minutes longer. Eemove from the flre and add the vanilla. 



312 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

SHERBET 

LEMON MILK SHERBET, 299 CALOBTES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup milk. Juice of y^ lemon. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 1 drop lemon extract. 

Blend all the ingredients and freeze in small pail accord- 
ing to general directions. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET, NO. U, 2390 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. Juice 2 lemons. 

1^ cups sugar. % teaspoon lemon extract. 

To the lemon juice add the sugar, milk and extract. 
Freeze immediately in large freezer. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET, 357 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz cup milk. l^ cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. To the juice add sugar and 
milk. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET NO. II, 2940 GALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 2 cups sugar. 

2 quarts strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. Add sugar and milk. Freeze 
in large freezer. 

CLAM SHERBET, 128 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. Speck paprika. 

14 cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Rule. Serve in 
small dainty glasses with a teaspoon of unsweetened whipped 
cream on top. The milk and clam taken in this way are 
often more acceptable to the patient than when served in 
liquid form. 



SHERBET 313 

Note. — The paprika may be omitted if condiments are not 
desirable. 

MALTED MILK SHERBET, 2148 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

14 pound Hor lick's Malted Milk. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

3 pints water. White 1 egg. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and a 
little of the water, then add the rest of the water gradually, 
the sugar, vanilla and the chocolate grated. Freeze. When 
partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of Qgg and finish 
freezing. 

GRAPE SHERBET, 3265 CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 

3 cups grape juice. 3 cups sugar. 

1 quart water. White 2 Qgg^, 

Blend the grape juice, water and sugar. Partly freeze. 
Beat the whites of eggs lightly, add two tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar ; add to sherbet and continue freezing until hard. 
Eemove dasher and allow it to stand for one hour to ripen. 
Pack carefully. 

GRAPE AMBROSIA, 5243 CALORIES 

(Twelve Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 1 pint grape juice. 

2 quarts water. 1 can grated pineapple. 
3V2 cups sugar. Juice 3 lemons. 
Whites 4 eggs. 

Mix together milk, water, sugar and fruit and partially 
freeze. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs and continue 
freezing until hard. 

ICES 

ORANQE ICE, 252 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Juice V/2 oranges. l^ cup sugar. 



314 



NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



Mix together all the ingredients and freeze in small pail 
according to general directions. 

ORANGE ICE NO. U, 990 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

2 tablespoons shredded gelatin. 1 cup sugar. 

l^ cup cold water. 1 cup orange juice. 

1^ cups boiling water. Juice 1 lemon. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water twenty minutes; add boil- 
ing water; when gelatin is dissolved add the sugar, orange 
and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

ORANGE ICE NO. m, 1922 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

1 pint orange juice. Grated rind 1 orange. 

Juice 2 lemons. 1 quart water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes; add fruit juice 
and rind of orange. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — Do not use orange rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

LEMON ICE, 257 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ cup water. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Mix all the ingredients and freeze in small pail according 
to general directions. 

FRUIT ICE, 497 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% banana. Juice ^ lemon. 

1/3 cup strawberries. 14 cup cold water, 

juice l^ orange. i^ cup sugar. 

Put the fruit into a coarse strainer (or a potato-ricer), rub- 
bing it through into a large bowl. Pour the cold water 
through the strainer. Add the sugar, stir well and freeze 
according to general directions. 



ICES 315 

PINEAPPLE ICE, 242 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup grated pineapple. % cup water. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together about three minutes; 
add pineapple and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze ac- 
cording to general directions. 

GRAPE FEAPPE, 2175 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 pint grape juice. 1 pint water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 2 cups sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes; cool 
and add the grape and lemon juice. Freeze to the con- 
sistency of a mush. Serve in tall glasses with sweetened 
whipped cream piled high on top. 

CLAM FEAPPE 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup cold water. Speck paprika. 

^ cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Eule, to the con- 
sistency of a soft Water Ice. Serve in small punch-glasses 
or champagne glasses, with a teaspoon of unsweetened 
whipped cream on top — Delicious to serve for dinner in 
place of shellfish. 

SGALPIGON OF FBITIT 

A delicious scalpicon is made by cutting all kinds of fresh 
fruits into small pieces flavoring with wine or lemon juice 
and sugar. Put into serving dish with Orange or Lemon 
Ice on top. Serve individually in champagne glasses on a 
small plate with doily, with a single rose or other flower to 
correspond with color of ice. 

OBANQE STRAWS 

Peel the orange or lemon lengthwise ; cut into long, narrow 
strips, about one-fourth of an inch wide. Put into saucepan 



316 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

and cover with cold water and bring to the boiling point and 
pour off the water; repeat this process five or six times, or 
until the bitter taste of peel is extracted. Drain thoroughly 
and cover with granulated sugar. Cook until sugar is dis- 
solved and is thick and hardens in cold water. Then roll 
straws in granulated sugar and cool. Serve with Orange Ice, 
etc., or as a bon-bon. 



CHAPTER XII 
CAKE 

The two methods of making- cake light are by means of 
air and of gas. Air is introduced by boating, or by the 
addition of beaten eggs, as in sponge cake. When the light- 
ness is entirely dependent upon air, the whites and yolks of 
eggs should be beaten separately. 

Gas may be generated from ■within by combining an acid 
and alkali and adding moisture; as cream of tartar and 
bicarbonate of soda; or sour milk and soda; or molasses and 
baking powder. The combination of both air and gaa is 
used to raise butter cakes. 

General Directions for Cake Making. Before blending the 
cake, see that the oven is at right temperature for baking 
and the pans greased with a Httle beef fat and dredged with 
flour. The pan may be lined with paper to prevent cake 
burning on bottom when cake requires long baking or when 
the oven bakes too quickly on tlie bottom. Have all material 
at hand and measured. Use a round bottom bowl, and a 
wooden spoon for mixing; beat rather than stir the mixture 
and fold in ingredients. Put mixture in cake pans, slightly 
higher on the sides than in the center, as cake rises more 
quickly in the center. Layer cake takes a hotter oven than 
loaf cake. If cake is baked properly, it will rise, but not 
brown, during first quarter of the time required for baking; 
become slightly browned the second quarter; well browned 
during the third; and shrink from the pan during the 
fourth. 

If the oven is too hot, a crust will form over the top be- 
fore the cake hss risen sufficiently and the cake will break 
317 



318 CAKE 

open on the top. If the oven is too cool the cake will rise too 
much and will be of coarse texture. 

Place pans in oven in such position that they may remain 
and do not move them before the third quarter of the baking. 
If the top of the cake should brown too quickly cover with 
a piece of light weight paper, slightly buttered on the one 
side and next to the cake. 

Cake is suflBciently baked when it shrinks slightly from 
the edge of the pan and feels firm to the touch; if when 
tested with a fine washed and heated knitting or darning 
needle and it comes out clear. In looking at cake do not 
open the oven door too wide and only for a moment, and 
care must be taken not to jar the door in closing. 

SFONQE CAKE, 1350 CALOBIES 

4 eggs. 1% level teaspoons Rmnford's 

1 cup powdered sugar. baking powder. 

% cup bread flour. Rind and juice of ^ lemon. 

^2 teaspoon salt. 

Beat eggs separately, very light. To the yolks add the 
sugar and lemon, sift in carefully the flour blended with the 
baking powder and beat about five minutes. Then fold in 
the whites. Bake in a well-greased and floured angel cake 
tin in a moderate oven. Cake is done if when tested with a 
fine (washed) knitting needle it comes out clear, or when the 
cake shrinks from the pan. 

COLD WATER SPONGE CAKE, 1633 CALOBIES 

2 eggs. 2 level teaspoons Rumford bak- 
1 cup sugar. ing powder. 

6 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
iVs cups bread flour. 

Boat the yolks and whites separately. To the yolks add 
the sugar and boat well ; add lemon juice and cold water; sift 
flour and baking powdor together three times and add grad- 
ually, beating thoroughly. 

Fold in the woll-beaten whites. Bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan in a moderate oven. 



CAKE 319 

HOT WATEE SFOHaE CAKE, J460 CALOKIES 

2 egg». ^/^ teaBpoon Halt. 

1 pup sugar. Va teftapoon vanilla or 2 tea- 

1 cup bread flour. spoons lemon juice. 
IVi level teaapoons fiumford hak- % cup liot water. 

ing powder. 

Beat the oggs very light, add the sugar; sift dry ingredients 

together and add gradually ; add flavoring and heat well. 

Lastly add the hot water, and bake in well-greased and floured 

gem tins, or shallow pan, in a. moderate oven. 

PLAUT cake, 2230 CALORIES 

2 eggB. 4 tablespoons butter. 

Vi cup milk. 2 level teaspoona Rumford bak- 

1 cup sugar. ing powder. 

IVi cupa bread flour blended witb 1 teaspoon flavoring or spicea. 
2 tablespoona corn-atarch 

Line the pan with buttered paper; separate eggs. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, add the well-beaten yolks 
and flavoring. Add alternatelj' the milk and the flour with 
the baking powder sifted in it. Beat well and fold in the 
stiffly-beaten white. Put at once in a well-lined and greased 
pan, and bake in a hot oven about thirty minutes, or until it 
shrinks from the pan, or until a fine (washed) knitting needle 
comes out dry. 

The cake may he varied by adding one-fourth cup currants, 
or a few raisins and a little citron, or mixed spices, or a httle 
melted chocolate. Before adding fruit to cake it should be 
slightly floured. 

GLUTEIT mjT CAKE, 1436 CALORIES i 

1 tablespoon butter. Vi teaspoon aweetina = 

Yolks 2 eggB. Salt and apioes. 

Wiitea 2 eggs. 1 cup nut mcata. 

% cup Bour milk, Hoyt'e gluten flour. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Cream the butter, add the well-beaten yolks and sweetina 
syrup, tlien the sour milk in which the soda has been 
blended. Add gluten flour gradually to make a stiff batter; 



1 



320 CAKE 

season with salt and spices and add nut meats. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

BOILED FBOSTING, 853 CALOBIES 

1 cup sugar. . White 1 egg, 

y^ teaspoon cream of tartar. y^ teaspoon flavoring. 

Va cup cold water. • 

Boil the sugar, cream of tartar and cold water without stir- 
ring until it threads from spoon, and gradually pour on to 
the well-beaten white of ^gg. Add any flavoring to taste. 
Beat until thick and spread quickly. A little chocolate may 
be added for variety, or chopped nuts or cocoanut, etc. 

KABGTJEBITE WAPEBS 

Take "Long Branch ^^ wafer crackers and spread with 
plain-boiled frosting, or add nuts, chocolate, cocoanut, etc. 
Put in oven a moment to dry, but not brown. Dainty to 
serve with Ice Cream, Ices and Sherbet. 

GINGEB BBEAD, 2600 CALOBIES 

1 ^gg, l^ cup boiling water. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

7 tablespoons melted butter. IV2 cups bread flour or 

1 teaspoon soda. 2 cups pastry flour. 

Beat ^gg in mixing bowl ; add molasses, melted butter, and 
gradually one cup of flour. To the remaining flour add the 
soda and ginger, sift and add to mixture; beat well and add 
the boiling water. Bake in well-greased and floured gem tins, 
or shallow pan, in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Test 
with a fine (washed) darning needle; when it comes out clear, 
or tlio cake shrinks from the pan the cake is done. 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 320-a 

QTJESTIONS FOE EEVIEW 

Chaptee VIII 

1. Discuss fully the uses of beverages in the diet. 

2. Why is it important that the ice used in preparing cold drinks 
should be pure? 

3. Why is a sugar syrup preferable to sugar in sweetening cold 
beverages ? 

4. Give a recipe for lemonade. 

6. What fruit juices may be used in place of or combined with 
lemon juice? 

6. Discuss the digestibility of raw eggs. How does this affect the 
nutritive value of albuminous beverages? 

7. What is the energy value of one tablespoon of malted milk 
powder ? 

8. What principle is involved in the preparation of starchy bever- 

ages? 

9. Give a recipe for barley water; oatmeal water. 

10. What are the active principles of tea and coffee? To what are 
their stimulating properties due? 

11. Discuss the nutritive value of chocolate and cocoa. 

12. What is the chief difference between chocolate and cocoa? What 
active principles do they contain? 

13. Give a recipe for tea, coffee, cocoa. 

14. Give a method for making lime water. 

Chapter IX 

1. What are the disadvantages of a diet consisting very largely 
of animal foods? 

2. Discuss the digestibility of meat. What do you understand by 
the term " digestibility " ? 

3. Discuss the nutritive value of meat. 

4. What are the objective points in cooking meat? Illustrate each 
point by outlining a method of cooking meat. 

6. What is the effect of hot and cold water on meat? In what 
methods of cooking meat are these effects taken advantage of? 

6. What factors affect the quality of meat? 

7. What animal organs are used for food? 

8. Mention the points by which you would judge of the quality of 
beef, veal, mutton. 

9. From what part of the animal do the following come: roimd 
steak, porterhouse steak, sirloin steak, sweetbreads? 

10. Compare the digestibility of beef and pork. Give reasons for 
your answer. 



320-b QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 

11. Discuss the digestibility of chicken. 

12. What is a general rule for the time to be allowed in roasting 
fowl? 

13. Discuss the digestibility and nutritive value of fish; shell-fish. 

14. How would you tell whether fish is fresh? 
15*. When are oysters in season? 

16. Give a recipe for oyster soup. Mention the special points to be 
observed in cooking oysters. 

17. Discuss the nutritive value of eggs. In what forms is egg yolk- 
most digestible? Egg white? 

18. Compare the composition of egg yolk and egg white. What is 
the energy value of a medium sized eggi Of an average yolk! 
Of an average white? 

19. How would you prepare a soft cooked eggi A poached egg^ 

20. What is the percentage composition of whole milk? 

21. What can you say of the digestibility of milk? 

22. Discuss the nutritive value of milk. 

23. Why is care in the handling of milk important? 

24. What is certified milk? Do you think its cost is justified? 

25. What is pasteurized milk? What effect has pasteurization 
upon milk? Describe the method of pasteurizing milk. 

26. When would you advise the sterilization of milk? How is 
this done? How does it affect the milk? 

27. What is modified milk? Buttermilk? Peptonized milk? 
Malted milk? Condensed milk? Evaporated milk? Dry milk? 

28. What is the fuel value of one cup of whole milk? Of one quart? 
Of one cup of skimmed milk? How many tablespoons are there 
in a lOO-calorie portion of thin cream (18%) ? In a lOO-calorie 
portion of thick cream (40%) ? 

29. What is gelatin? Discuss its food value and use in the diet. 

30. Describe a method of obtaining meat juice. How much juice 
can be obtained from one pound of meat? 

31. Discuss the nutritive value and place in the diet of beef prep- 
arations. 

32. Outline the principal points in the method of making broth. 

33. Name three substances which can be added to broths to in- 
crease their nutritive value. 

34. State briefly the method of preparation of cream soups. Discuss 
their food value. 

Chapter X 

1. Compare the digestibility of animal and vegetable foods. 

2. Discuss the nutritive value of cereals, comparing whole grain and 
finely milled cereals. 



QUESTIONS FOR REVIEW 320-c 

3. State the principles involved in the cooking of cereals. 

4. Name a class of vegetable foods which is rich in protein. Give 
examples of this class. 

'5. Compare vegetable and animal proteins as to digestibility and 
nutritive value. 

6. Discuss the nutritive value of breads. Name two breads com- 
monly prescribed for diabetics. Why does toasting bread make 
it more digestible? 

7. What are thrice cooked vegetables? 

8. Discuss the digestibility and nutritive value of legumes, roots 
and tubers and green vegetables. Give one reason why peas and 
beans should not be given in cases of digestive disturbances. 

9. What is the most easily digested form of potatoes? 

10. Compare the composition of vegetables, cereals and fruits. 

11. Compare the nutritive value of fresh and dried fruits. 

12. What advantage is there in cooking fruits? 

13. Why is the inclusion of fruits and vegetables in the diet im- 
portant ? 

14. What is an ideal diet? 

Chapter XI 

1. Name five easily digested desserts using milk and eggs. 

2. What is a good proportion of liquid to egg for soft custard: 
for baked custard? 

3. What do you gain by using lactose in desserts ? 

4. What do you understand by the term " diabetic custard " ? 

5. How would you serve a custard with chocolate sauce? 

6. What is junket? How is it made? 

7. What variations of plain custard can you suggest? 

8. On what principle is the cooking of starchy desserts based? 

9. Discuss the value of frozen desserts. What caution must be 
observed in serving them? 

10. What principle is involved in freezing mixtures? 

11. How would you freeze a small amount of material? 

Chapter XII 

1. Give two methods of making cake light. 

2. Outline the general points to be observed in making cake. 



I 

I 



i 



PART III 

HOSPITAL DIETAEIES 

DIET IN" DISEASE 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITION'S 



1 



:i; 



!. . I 



CHAPTER XIII 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

GENEBAL TYPES OF DIET USED IN HOSPITALS 

LIQ17ID OB FLUID DIETS 

Foqds to be Used. Acid, starchy and miscellaneous bev- 
erages (note various chapters for recipes). Baw eggs in cona- 
bination with water, milk, fruit juices, cocoa, or other fluids 
(note chapter Albuminous Beverages). Milit either plain or 
modified in different ways as given in recipes under chapter; 
thus milk may be flavored with cocoa, chocolate, coffee or meat 
broth; diluted with lime water, or carbonated water; com- 
bined with starchy drinks or strained gruels. Broths of vari- 
ous kinds; beef juice; beef tea; beef extiact. Soups, both 
clear and creamy. 

LOW FLUID DIET, 100-200 CALOKIES 

This consists practically of plain broths, clear soups, thin 
gruels, dilute fruit juices slightly sweetened, along with non- 
nutritious drinks, such as plain tea and coffee. These food 
articles are in reality not given for their very slight nutritive 
value, but because they are palatable and at the same time 
enable the stomach to rest for a day or two. Thus the patient 
receives a liberal daily supply of water (two or three pints) 
in a bland and agreeable form. 

FLUID DIET WITHOUT SUTHITIVE VALUE 
Dr. Max Einhorn i 

8 A. M, Tea or Coffee 1-2 cups 250-500 C.C, 

12 M. Bouillon 1-^2 cupn 250-500 C.C. 

4 P. u. Tea or Coffee 1-2 cups 250-500 C.C. 

1 Dr. Ubi EiDhom. Professor ot Medklne. M«v Yorli PoM Gradoste Scboal 
and BwpiWI; Fh^iiclau to Post Oraduite uid Qennui Hospitsl, IBIT, 



324 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

8 P. M. Bouillon 1-2 cups 250-500 C.C. 

2 quarts of plain water, or White Rock, or Vichy 
should be consumed, in addition, in every 24 
hours. 

FLUID DIET WITH LOW NUTBITIVE VALT7V 

Dr. Max Einhomi 

Calories 

8 A.M. Tea or Coffee 1-2 cups 250-500 C.C. 

with one teaspoonful of sugar 16 

12 M. Thin Barley Gruel 10 ounces 300 C.C. 

1 tablespoonful Crushed Barley 50 

4 p. M. Bouillon 1-2 cups 250-500 C.C. 

8 P. M. Lemonade 1-2 cups 250-500 C.C. 

with one tablespoonful sugar 60 

Total 126 

2 quarts of plain water, or White Rock, or Vichy, 
should be consumed, in addition, in every 24 
hours. 

MEDIUM FLUID DIET (HALF BATION), 800-800 CAI.0BIE8 

This is intended for very brief use — a few days at most, to 
rest the digestive organs and prepare the patient for the full 
fluid regimen. The balance of the daily requirement must 
be borrowed from the patient's own tissues. This diet may 
be obtained from the following articles: 

Milk IV'i pintH ( about) 400 calories 

Meat Broth IVa pints (about) 110 " 

Cereal Flour for Gruel . . 1 tablespoon (about) 40 

Sugar 4 tablespoons 240 

Egg White 2 27 « 

Lemon Juice 4 tablespoons 22 ** 

Coffee, tea, vichy, water (no fuel value) 

Total 839 « 

In arranging these food articles in a daily menu, individual 
feedings should be small and succeed one another every two 
hours (eight or nine feedings daily). 

1 Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Medicine, New York Post Graduate School 
and Hospital; Physician to Poft Graduate and German Hospital, 1917. 



M 
M 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 



325 



8 


A. 


M. 


10 


A. 


M. 


12 




M. 


2 


P. 


M. 


4 


P. 


M. 


6 


P. 


M. 


8 


P. 


M. 


10 


P. 


M. 



MEDITJH FLUID DIET (HALF EATION) 
Dr. Max Einhomi 

Calories 

Milk 10 ounces 300 C.C. 202 

Milk and strained barley 

water, equal parts 10 ounces 300 C.C. 160 

Bouillon with the white of 

two eggs 10 ounces 300 C.C. 30 

Lemonade with 2 tablespoon- 

fuls sugar 10 ounces 300 C.C. 120 

Milk 10 ounces 300 C.C. 202 

Bouillon with the whites of 

2 eggs 10 ounces 300 C.C. 30 

Whey 10 ounces 300 C.C. 60 

Lemonade, with 2 tablespoon- 

fuls sugar 10 ounces 300 C.C. 120 



Total 924 

1 quart of water should be taken in addition 
in 24 hours. 

FULL FLUID DIET 
-1800 Calories at least 

The full fluid diet gives the full requirement for an adult 
in bed and can, if necessary, be used over long periods. It 
also serves as a preparation for semi-solid and convalescent 
diets. The calories may be derived as follows : 



Milk 


2^ pints 


844 


Calories 


Extra Cream (thick) 


3% ounces 


584 


« 


Sugar 


3 tablespoons 


180 


ti 


Malted Milk 


3 tablespoons 


180 


tc 


Egg 


2 


120 


tt 


Egg White 


1 


14 


a 


Cereal Flour Gruel 


1 tablespoon cereal flour 


40 


a 


Grape Juice 


2 ounces 


60 


tc 


Orange Juice 


4 ounces 


60 


tt 




Total 


2072 


tt 



A daily menu with eight or nine feedings, two hours apart 
may be arranged from the above materials. 



1 Dr. Max Einhom, Professor of Medicine, New York Post Graduate School 
ftnd Hospital; Physician to Post Graduate and German Hospital, 1917. 



326 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

"ETTLL IXTJID DIET (FULL BATIOH) 

Dr. Max Einhomi 

Calories 
8 A.M. Milk 200 C.C. (6% oz.), with 
Coflfee 100 C.C. (3% oz.), and 
Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 160 

10 A. M. Bouillon and 1 Egg 82 

12 M. Milk 200 C.C. (6% oz.), 

Cream 50 C.C. {\% oz.), and 

Cereal 60 C.C. ( 1% oz.) ! 426 

2 P.M. Milk 200 C.C. (6% oz.), with 
Coflfee 100 C.C. (3% oz.) and 
Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 160 

4 P.M. Milk 250 C.C. (8% oz.), 

Cream 50 C.C. (l%oz.) 296 



« 



6 P.M. Milk 200 C.C. (6% oz.) 
Tea 50 C.C. (1% oz.) 
Cream 50 C.C. (1% oz.) and 
Sugar 2 teaspoonfuls 328 

8 P.M. Milk 200 C.C. (6% oz.) 
Cream 50 C.C. (1% oz.) 
Cereal 50 C.C. ( 1% oz.) 426 

10 P. M. Milk 300 C.C. ( 10 oz.) 192 

Total 2070 

FULL FLUID DIET (SUITABLE FOB TYPHOID FEYEE) 

Dr. F. P. Kinnicutt2 

1900 Calories with Low Fat 

8 A. M. Milk and coflfee each 4 oz. 120 C.C. 

10 A.M. Milk, hot or cold 8 oz. 240 C.C. 

12 M. Oatmeal gruel 4 oz. 120 C.C. 

With milk 2 oz. 60 C.C. 

1 Dr. Max E inborn, Professor of Medicine, New York Post Graduate School 
and Hospital; Physician to Post Graduate and German Hospital, 1917. 

2 Dr. F. P. Kinnicutt, ** Diet Lista of the Presbyterian Hoapital," New York 
City, page 15. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 



2 P.M. 


Milk 


S 


E. 


240 C.C. 


4 P.M. 


Oatmeal gruel 


4 




120 C.C. 




With milij 


2 


z. 


00 C.C. 


6 P.M. 


CusUrd with lactose 


% pint 




8 r.M. 


Hot miik 


8 




240 C.C. 


10 P. M. 


Whey with one whole e^ and sherry 


6 


X. 


180 C.C. 


12 P. M. 


Oatmeal gruel 


4 


1Z. 


120 C.C. 




Milk 


2 




60 CO. 


2 A.M. 


Milk 


8 


I. 


240 CO. 


4 A.M. 


Broth with 1 whole egg 


S 


z. 


240 CO. 


G A,U. 


Milk 


8 




240 CO. 




This diet is given in 12 feediagB, every t 


•XQ 






hours, both day and night. 








Appro 


rimate rafufrs.— Protein, 98 gm. (3Vi 


oz.) 


: fa 


. 52 gm. 


{1% ot. 


; carbohjd rates, 150 gm. {6 oz.) ; calories, 


1900. 





HIQH CALOaT 7IUIS DIET 

^Tien as a consequence of influenza or any severe mental 
Btrain there is a continuous loss of appetite, with complete 
repugnance to solid food, an individual may secure sufficient 
daily calories for leading a fairly active life through flttid 
diet in the form of egg nogs. One of the latter composed 
of 8 oz. of milk or thin cream with the addition of two eggs 
and one tablespoonful of sugar will yield from 350 to 600 cal- 
ories, and one made of a mixture of equal parts of whole milk 
and thin cream will yield nearly 500 calories. If intended 
for brief use only, a few days at most, the occasional addi- 
tion of an ounce of spirits will not only add nearly 100 extra 
calories, but will perhaps cause a slight desire for other foods, 
fluch as dipped toast. From 4 to 6 of these egg nogs daily, 
accor3ing to the food value will secure at least 2000 calories. 

The high calory diet used in Typhoid Fever may be adapted 
to other conditions (note Chapter XIV).' 

MILK DIET 

Belle VUG IIoBpital 
During the day give 6 to 8 ounces every two hours. 
During the night give 6 to 8 ounces every three hours. 

t Ptge 3<S. 



328 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

(When very ill give every two hours during the nigbt.) 
Three quarts with 3000 cc: Protein, 100 gm. (3% 

oz.) ; fat, 120 gm. (4 oz.) ; carbohydrate, 150 gm. (5 oz.); 

calories, 2160; chlorids, 5.2 gm. 

KODIPIED MILK 7L1TID DEBT 

Dr. W. Coleman 1 

See " Typhoid Fever," Page 342. 

SOFT OB SEia-SOLn) DEBT 

Foods to be Used, All fluid foods. Milk and water gruels. 
Water, milk or creamy toast. Toast softened with broth. 
Starchy and meat jellies. Custards in various forms. Whips 
and souffles. Junkets, cornstarch puddings or blanc-mange, 
gelatins jellies. Ice cream, sherbet, ices. Plain cream and 
butter. (Meats, fish, and green vegetables are to be omitted.) 

Soft or Semi-Solid Diet This differs from a full liquid 
diet in including a number of semi-solid dishes, and having 
generally a larger caloric value (2000-2200 calories). It 
must be simple, well cooked and attractively served, so as to be 
easy of digestion. 

The following suggests some of the possibilities for ar- 
rangement of foods which are suitable for this type of diet: 

TYPICAL MENU FOE A SOFT OB SEMI-SOLID DEBT 

Dr. Mary S. Rose 2 

2000-2200 Calories 

7 A. M. 1 cup hot milk (may be flavored with tea or coffee). 
9:30 A.M. % cup grape or pineapple juice. 

1 cup thick farina gruel served with rich milk. 
1 thin slice toast with butter. 
12 Noon. 1 cup beef broth with the white of 1 egg, 
1 thin slice toast with butter. 
2 : 30 P. M. % cup of chicken souffle. 
14 thin slice toast. 
^ cup lemon jelly with 1 tablespoonful whipped cream. 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Seienceg, .January. 191t. 

2 Mury Swartz Rose, Ph.D., " Feeding the Family," The Macmillan Co.. New 
York. 1917. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 329 

5 p. M. 1 cup milk flavored with tea or cocoa. 
^ thin slice toast. 
7:30 P.M. % cup bouillon. 
1 egg omelet. 

^ cup cocoa or caramel junket. 
10 P. M. 1 cup gruel or malted milk (made with milk). 
1 thin slice toast. 

LIQiriD AND SOFT-SOLID DIET 

Massachusetts General Hospital i 

For Typhoid Fever, Acute Infectious Diseases, Convales- 
cence from Operation, Heart Decompensation. 



Wheat cereal (as wheat germ or shredded wheat) with 

cream or salt only. Milk, 4 ounces. 
Crackers and milk or eggnog. 
Pea or potato pur6e. 
Soft or cream toast. 
Soft boiled egg, 
Kice, tapioca or custard. 
Cereal or rice. Milk, 4 oimces. 
Crackers and milk. 

Drinks — Grape juice, lemonade, orangeade, albumin water with 
sugar. 



Indian meal mush or Farina. Milk. 
Crackers and milk. 
Minced chicken, mashed potatoes. 
Chocolate or crackers and milk. 
Cream toast. Ice cream or custard. 
Crackers and milk or malted milk. 



Cerealin. Milk. 

Malted milk or crackers and milk. 

Soft boiled eggs, rice, apple sauce. 

Cornstarch or custard. 

Potato pur^e, toast. 

Crackers and milk. 

iDiet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 1917. 



First Day 


8 


A. 


M. 


10-11 


A. 


M. 


1 


P. 


M. 


3-4 


P. 


M. 


6 


P. 


M. 


8 


P. 


M. 



Secoih) Day 


8 


A. 


M. 


10-11 


A. 


M. 


1 


P. 


M. 


3 


P. 


M. 


6 


P. 


M. 


9 


P. 


M. 


Thibd Day 


8 


A. 


M. 


10-11 


A. 


M. 


1 


P. 


M. 


3-4 


P. 


M. 


6 


P. 


M. 





P. 


M. 



330 



HOSPITAL DIETARIES 



LIGHT OB CONVALESCENT DIET 

A simple mixed diet is suitable for convalescence. Foods 
recognized as difficult of digestion should be avoided, and em- 
phasis laid on milk, eggs, toast, well cooked cereals, and other 
foods used in Soft Diet, mild fruits and well-cooked vege- 
tables may be added cautiously and tender meat about 
once a day. The fuel value should be liberal, probably 2200 
to 2500 calories per day. 



Breakfast 



10:30 A.M. 



Lunch 
12:30 



3:30 P.M. 



6:30 P.M. 



9:30 P.M. 



DIET FOB CONVALESCENTS 

Dr. Max Einhom i 

2 soft boiled or poached eggs. 

Toast and butter. 

Coffee with milk and sugar. 

Egg nog. 

Crackers and butter. 

Cream soup, or meat soup. 

White bread and butter. 

Tender meat. 

Mashed or baked potato. 

Spinach or cauliflower. 

Custard or tapioca pudding. 

Crackers and butter. 

Fish or oysters. 

Scrambled or coddled eggs or omelette. 

Toast and butter. 

1 cup weak tea with milk and sugar. 

Rice or tapioca pudding. 

1 glassful of milk, or kumyss. 

Crackers and butter. 



GENERAL CONVALESCENT DIET 

New York Hospital 2 

6' (I. m. — Milk, 7 oz. (210 c.cm.) if desired. 

Breakfast. — Coffee or tea with milk and sugar, or milk; 1 egg, or 
fro8h fish, or plain stew; cereal with milk and sugar; toast 
anil butter or rolls or bread (white, graham or brown). 

Dinner. — liroth or soup with barley or vegetables; bread and but- 

1 Dr. Mux Kinhorn, ProfeRSor of Medicine, New York Post Graduate School 
and IIoM^titHl; Physician to Post Graduate and German Hospital, 1917. 

a Modifled from New York Hospital Diets by Herbert 8. Garter, 
*' Diet hiHts of the Presbyterian Hospi\aI." New York City. W. B. Sander* Co- 
Philadelphia. Pa. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 



331 



ter; milk; potatoes (baked, boiled or raaahed) ; r 

or hominy; beef, chicken or flab; pudding, ice cream or fruit. 

Bvpper. — Tea or milk; toast and butter or bread; cooked fruit 

apples, stewed or baked, prunes, rhubarb, apricota or pears; 



SPECIAL COITVALXSCEITT DIET 

New York Hospital i 
SUNDAY 
Breakfast. — Wheatena, 1 egg. 
Dinner. — Chicken, baked potato, orange. 
Supper.— Egg, prunes. 

MONDAY 
Breakfast. — Hominy, stew. 

Mnitfr. — Roaat beef, mashed potato, rice pudding. 
Supper. — EggB, pears or apricots. 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast. — Oatmeal, I egg. 

Dinner,— Freah fish, boiled potato, liominy, ice creai 
Supper. — Egg, stewed apples. 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast. — Wheatena, fresh fish. 
Dinner. — Chicken, baked potato, 
Sapper, — Egg, rhubarb or prunes. 

THURSDAY 
Breakfast. — Hominy, 1 egg. 

Dinner. — Boikd beef, masbed potato, rice, baked custard. 
Sapper. — Egg, baked apple. 

FRIDAY 
Breakfast.— Oatmeal, 1 egg. 

Dinner, — Fresh fish, boiled potato, macaroni, ice cream. 
Supper. — Egg, prunes. 

SATURDAY 
Breakfast. — Commeal, stew. 

Dinner, — Chicken, mashed potato, bominy, cornstarch pudding. 
Supper. — Egg, apricots or pears, 

ork Hospital Diet* b» Harbsrt EL C 

„ , ^. „ _ SBndera Co., Phila- 



tnpioca pudding. 



lospltal Dleta br E 
' Saw Yotl dty. 



332 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

Appboximate Values to be Given 

Total 
Protein Carbohydrate Fat Calories 

Men 100 gm. ( 3% oz. ) 300 gm. ( 10 oz. ) 90 gm. (3 oz. ) 2500 

Women . 80gm. {2%oz.) 300gm. (lOoz.) 80gm. (2%oz.) 2200 

BEGULAB HOUSE DIET 

New York Hospital i 

The regular house diet in institutions comprises a great 
variety of dishes, so that it is always possible to consult econ- 
omy in making a selection. It consists of a general plan of 
feeding, in which general terms like soup, meat, cereal, fruit, 
puddings are set down, together with beverages and bread and 
butter. The special diet gives the particular cereal, soup, 
etc., for each day and meal. There is, however, no absolute 
distinction between the two diets, for as will be noted, the gen- 
eral plan contains certain special dishes which do not appear 
in the special diets. 

GENERAL HOUSE DIET 

Breakfast. — Coffee or tea with milk or sugar, or milk; bread and 
butter; eggs; cereal with milk or sugar; fresh fish; hash. 

Dinner. — Soup; meat or fish; potatoes (baked, boiled or mashed): 
one of the following vegetables: spinach, squash, boiled on- 
ions, beets, sweet potatoes, macaroni, tomatoes, corn; bread 
and butter; milk 180 c.c. (6 oz.) ; pudding or fruit. 

Supper. — Tea or milk; bread and butter; cooked fruit (prunes, 
apples or rhubarb); apricots, pears; cold meat; egg; cereal 
with milk and sugar; milk toast. 

The total quantity of milk allowed should not exceed 1^^ pints. 
Male ward patients are allowed two eggs, females, one egg. 

SPECIAL HOUSE DIET 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast. — Wheatena, eggs. 

Dinner. — Chicken, tomatoes, baked potatoes, fresh fruit. 

Supper. — Cold meat, prunes. 

1 Modified from New York Hospital Diet Lists by Dr. Herbert 8. Carter, 
" Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York City. W. B. Sander* Cc 
Philadelphia, Pa. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 333 

MONDAY 

Breakfast. — Hominy, bacon. 

Dinner. — Vegetable soup, roast mutton, spinach or com, mashed po- 
tatoes, rice pudding. 
Supper, — Eggs, apricots. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast. — Oatmeal, eggs. 

Dinner. — Lalnb stew, boiled potatoes, beets, sago pudding. 

Supper. — Cereal with milk and* sugar, apples. 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast. — Wheatena, fresh fish. 

Dinner. — Chicken, baked potatoes, boiled onions, baked apples. 

Supper. — Cold meat, rhubarb or prunes. 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast. — Hominy, eggs. 

Dinner. — Pea soup, roast mutton, mashed potatoes, squash, bread 

pudding. 
Supper. — Milk-toast, baked apple. 

FRIDAY 
Breakfast. — Oatmeal, egg. 

Dinner, — Fish, boiled potatoes, macaroni and tomatoes, rice pudding. 
Supper, — Eggs, prunes. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast. — Commeal, hash. 

Dinner. — Vegetable soup, meat stew, mashed potatoes, spinach or 

corn, cornstarch pudding. 
Supper, — Eggs, apricots or pears. 

Appboximate Values to be Given 

Total 
Protein Carbohydrates Fat Calories 

Men . . . 90 gm. ( 3 oz. ) 300 gm. (10 oz. ) 70 gm. ( 2% oz. ) 2200 
Women 80 gm. ( 2% oz. ) 250 gm. ( S% oz. ) 60 gm. ( 2 oz. ) 1800 



CHAPTER XIV 
DIET IN DISEASE 

One of the most striking differences between the older and 
more recent methods of treatment of disease is the careful 
attention bestowed upon the diet at the present day. For it is 
now recognized that the proper selection of food, both solid 
and fluid, is of as much importance as the use of medicaments. 
In the management of diseases affecting the digestive organs 
proper, and in all affections of metabolism (gout, obesity and 
diabetes, for example) the diet may be said to represent the 
treatment, and there is hardly any disease which may not be 
benefited by intelligent feeding. 

These matters, however, are left entirely to the medical prac- 
titioner, and it is only exceptionally that the nurse is required 
to assume any responsibility. She should know in a general 
way, however, the types of food suitable in different diseased 
conditions, so that she may avoid harmful foods when not 
given specific instructions, and so that she may adapt the 
prescribed diet to the tastes of the individual. For this pur- 
pose, an outline of the diets in use in common diseases is 
included in this volume. 

DIET IN FEVEES AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

DIET IN FEVER IN GENERAL 

In fevers due to poisons circulating in the blood, there is 
an interference with heat regulation, so that the heat gen- 
erated in the body cannot be gotten rid of in the normal 
way; an increased metabolism; and a disturbance of the di- 
gestive functions, especially in the early stages. It is, there- 
fore, desirable to give easily digested food, in small quantities 

334 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 335 

at frequent intervals, preferably in liquid form, as substances 
dissolved in water are more readily absorbed, and water tends 
to aid in cooling tbe body to normal temperature. 

For the first three or four days, patients previously strong 
should be given only fluid foods. But since a normal man, 
lying quietly in bed, requires about 2000 calories to com- 
pensate for daily loss of energy, and since in the increased 
metabolism of fever, this requirement is increased, it is neces- 
sary that more substantial food be incorporated into the diet 
as far as is possible without disturbing digestion. 

DIET.— Milk is the ataple food, but must be given with care, 
■wallowed very slowly and diluted with limewater, soda, Beltzer or 
other effeiresttnt water — one part to two parts milk. 

If milk can be token, two or three pints ehould be given — four 
ounces every two hours, or six ounces every three hours. In ease 
milk does not agree, whey may be given as a substitute for milk in 
part or in whole. Alodified milk or peptonized milk may I>e given. 
SometimeB the milk may be flavored with tea, coffee, cocoa or 
malted mitk and junket used. 

Kext to milk the most important nrticle of diet is beet juice and 
broths. Nest come well cooked gruels. Later well prepared cereals 
and malt extract are valuable, and plain or cocoa junkets. Usually 
there is fbirst, and all acid drinks, such as grape juice, may be taken. 

Panopepton with crushed ice, peptonised milk, clam, mutton and 
chicken broth, beef tea, clear soups, thickened with some farinaceous 
substance, gelatin jellies, are all of value. 

Liguida.^^ Pure cold water, toast water, any of the acid drinks, 
all sipped slowiy, are recommended both to relieve thirst and on 
account of facilitating the speed with which the waste matter re- 
sulting from increased metabolism of the fever is eliminated through 
the kidneys. 

AVOID. — Any solid or vegetable food or fruits, until permitted 
by the physician in charge. 

DIET IN COHTAIESGENCE FEOH FEVSa 
Thompion. i 

Convalescents who have long subsisted solely upon fluids 
must be careful in resuming solid diet, for the rapidity of 
recuperation of the digestive organs varies in different per- 

'W. Oilmiin Thompaon, M.D.: "Practical Dietetic*." New York. D. 
A p piston A Co. 



336 DIET IN DISEASE 

sons, and taking meats or other solid foods too soon may cause 
rise in temperature, rapid heart action, and possibly visceral 
congestion. The first meat given, therefore, should be in a 
finely subdivided state, such as scraped beef or minced chicken. 

During convalescence from protracted fevers the more 
easily digested forms of starchy foods are found to be very 
useful, especially if there has been much loss of weight. Sago 
and tapioca, and dried bread crumbs rolled through a fine 
sieve may be added to thicken clear meat broths. Crackers 
and zwieback are useful. 

Other ingredients which may be added to thicken soups 
during convalescence are panada, semolina, tapioca, and maca- 
roni. Custard puddings, cooked fruit, wine and beef jellies, 
blanc-mange, or baked custard, may be allowed. "Mush," 
fine hominy, cornstarch, farina, and boiled rice, with beef 
juice, can be ordered. 

The following dietary will serve as a general guide for 
feeding convalescents from fevers of ordinary severity in 
which special lesions of the alimentary canal are not present 

FIRST DAY 

Breakfast. — Poached egg on toast. Cocoa. 

Lunch. — Milk punch. 

Dinner. — Raw oysters. Cream crackers. Light wine if desired. 

Lunch. — One cup of hot meat broth. 

Supper. — Milk toast. Wine jelly. Tea. 

SECOND DAY 

Breakfast. — Soft cooked egg. Milk punch. Coffee with sugar and 

cream. 
Lunch. — One cup of soft custard. 
Dinner. — Cream of celery soup. Sippets of toast. A little barley 

pudding, with cream. Sherry wine if desired. 
Lunch. — Milk punch. 
Supper. — Water toast, buttered. Wine jelly. Tea. 

THIRD DAY 

Breakfast. — Coddled eggs. Cream toast. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot chicken broth. 

Dinner. — Chicken panada. Bread. Light wine if desired. A little 
tapioca cream. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 337 



Eupper. — Buttered dry toast. Baked sweet apples and cream. Tea, 

FOURTH DAY 
Breakfast. — An orange. Oatmeal (H. 0.)i with crenni and sugar. 

Poached egg on toast. Baked potato. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot, soft custard. 
Dinner. — Potato soup. C rontons. A small piece of beefsteak. 

Creamed potatoes. Baked custard. Coffee. 
Ltmch. — One cup of chicken broth, with rice. 
.Supper. — Raw oystera. Banquet crackers. Graham bread, toasted 

Wine Jelly, Tea. 

FIFTH DAY 

Breakfast. — An orange. Coffee. Oatmeal, with cream and sugai 
Broiled mutton chop. Toast. 

Lunch. — One cup of mulled wine. 

Dinner. — Chicken soup. Bread. Creamed sweetbreads. Duchess po- 
tatoes. Snow pudding. Cocoa. 

Lunclt.— Siphon soda, with coffee syrup and cream. 

Supper, — Buttered dry toast. Orange jelly. Sponge cake and 
cream. Tea. 

The reader is referred to the general dieeuasion of Con- 
valescence Diet given under Hospital DietarieB, Page 330. 
DIET in TYPHOID 7EVEB 

The modem dietetics of tj'phoid fever has uodergone a 
rather radical change in the light of the very significant work 
done by physicians ^ in the past few years. There is no longer 
any necessity for giving the starvation treatment. A fluid 
diet is advisable at first, and perhaps for some time during 
the febrile period. As soon as the individual patient is in a 
fit condition, however, soft diet yields the best results. 

As in the past, constant attention from the physician and 
nnrse is a most important factor. A schedule must be worked 
out for each patient, and then strictly adhered to by the nurse. 
All developments must be carefully watched, noted and cared 
for, chiefly by an alteration in the diet. 

1 Dr. W. Colemin, BellevuB HewpiUl N»w York City; Dr. Eogena P. DdBsU, 
Had. DIrfcUr. Bellerue BoBplul; Dr. B. B. Crobn, Mt, Sinii Hotpitil, Hew 
Tock: Dr. K*Dt, Dr. LiFMtb, Pi. Shnader and Mhen, 



338 DIET IN DISEASE 

The first important clinical evidence of the value of a 
liberal diet, is that given by Dr. Shattuck.^ 

" When typhoid kills, it does so either by perforation or ex- 
haustion. The main factors in producing exhaustion, which 
causes the death of at least nine-tenths of the fatal cases, are 
toxemia, continued fever, diarrhea and vomiting, and in- 
testinal hemorrhage/' 

" Most of us are agreed that we are not as yet acquainted 
with any therapeutic measures which either abort or very 
materially shorten the course of the disease. We are, I think, 
unanimous in believing that husbanding the strength from 
the start through skillful nursing, the judicious use of water 
externally and internally, and the supervision of a wise at- 
tendant on the watch for and prepared to meet such indica- 
tions as may arise, materially modifies the course of the dis- 
ease and lessens its mortality. If what I have assumed to be 
facts be really facts, the question of diet must be a very im- 
portant one in the management of typhoid fever. It is 
through the food which is assimilated, not through that which 
is merely put into the stomach, that we seek to limit the tissue 
waste while the process is active, and also try to land the pa- 
tient on the low shore of convalescence with as much of his 
property as may be ; for the recovery of his property is a nec- 
essary preliminary to the attainment of the high tableland of 
full health.^' 

" I may perhaps add here that diarrhea is not nearly as 
constant a symptom in typhoid fever as the books lead stu- 
dents to believe. In at least 50 per cent, of my hospital 
cases no diarrhea was present at any time. We must there- 
fore have reference to the local intestinal lesions as well as 
to tlie general state. In a disease of such long course it is 
impossible to prevent accidents by putting the bowels in splints, 
even if it were desirable to do so. More or less peristalsis 

1 Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck. From a paper on *' Liberal Diet in TVpboid 
Fever," read by title in the Section of Practice of Medicine at the 48th Annaal 
Meeting of the American Medical Association at Philadelphia, Pa., Jane, 1897. 
Corroborated in Vol. II — " Therapeusis of Internal Diseases" — edited l^ 
Forcheimer — 1913. Pages 11-16. 






FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 339 

must go on, and waste matter mnst pass over the ulcerated 
Burfaces; and how deep or extensive the ulcerated surface may 
be in any particular ease no symptom or group of symptoms 
enables us to measure. Hence, it seems rational, quite apart 
from the fever, to withhold from the diet any articles the 
residue of which is liable to irritate either the mucous mem- 
brane in general or the ulcerated portion in particular. This 
would seem & fair explanation for tlie popularity of milk as 
a diet for typhoid, containing as it does a large proportion 
of water, and every principle necessary to nutrition, so com- 
bined as to make relatively small demands on the digestion of 
most persons, and leaving a residue which, though notoriously 
large, is not mechanically irritating. The objection to milk 
is that it is repugnant to a few persons, and becomes either 
repugnant or monotonous to a considerable number sooner or 
later. It is not necessary here to specify the many expedi- 
ents which may and often must be resorted to to overcome 
this objection, and in some cases to render it digestible 
■whether palatable or not. Milk ia likely to maintain a very 
important, perhaps leading place in the diet of typhoid, aa 
well as of other diseases and conditions." 

"During the twelve years, 188S to 1897 (both inclusive), 
380 cases of typhoid fever have come under my personal care 
in the Massachusetts General Hospital. From 1886 to 1893, 
333 cases were treated under a milk diet, with a mortality of 
10 per cent. From 1893 to 1897, 14? cases have been treated 
under a much more extended diet with a mortality of 8.1 
per cent. I know well the liability to reach false conclusions 
in reasoning from too small figures in a disease like typhoid 
fever. And it ia also true that water has been used more 
efficiently of late than in former years. But I can see noth- 
ing in my figures to contravene my observation that an en- 
larged diet has not been injurious. I would not be under- 
stood as advocating an indiscriminate diet. My plea is simply 
for treating the patient rather than the disease; for feeding 
him with reference to his digestive power rather than solely 



340 DIET IN DISEASE 

or mainly with reference to his fever; for the view that the 
danger of accidents from the local intestinal ulceration is not 
increased by allowing him to partake of articles which leave 
no irritating residue, and which cautious trial shows are di- 
gested without disturbance or discomfort/' 

Through observing some patients, to whom, because of great 
weakness, a full diet was given. Dr. Shattuck found that the 
increased diet, led to a happier and more rapid convalescence, 
and consequently, enlarged his dietetic treatment for all sub- 
sequent cases. 

It seems strange that this did not command wider attention, 
but a long habit is hard to overcome. Dr. Shattuck's views 
are now upheld by scientific as well as by clinical evidence. 
One of the most significant contributions to the science of 
feeding has been made by Dr. Coleman^ and his associates, 
who have studied typhoid patients in a respiration calorim- 
eter 2 (large enough to allow for a patient in bed) and in 
other ways determined accurately the effect of food. A suf- 
ficient number of cases has been studied to give us convincing 
evidence of the beneficial results of high feeding. 

THE HIGH CALORY FEEDING » 

Dr. Coleman estimated that the minimiun daily requirement 
should be 40 calories per kilogram (2.2 pounds) of body 
weight — that is 3000 calories for a man of 70 kilograms 
(154 pounds). This diet did not prevent loss of body weight 
To prevent loss, from 60 to 80 calories per kilogram are 
needed. The optimum amount must be determined for each 
patient. 

Those foods which are easy of digestion and of high nu- 
tritive value, are used. Carbohydrate foods contribute about 
half in point of calories. Sugar in the form of lactose (milk 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, BeUevue Hospital, New York City; Dr. Eu^ne P. DaBoii, 
Med. Director, Bellevue Hospital; Dr. B. B. Crohn, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Nev 
York; Dr. Kelly, Dr. LaFetra, Dr. Shroeder and others. 

2 The Respiratory Calorimeter at Bellevue Hospital, New York. 

8 Dr. W. Coleman, " The High Calory Diet in Typhoid Fever." Americm 
Journal of Medical Sciences, Jan., 1912, and other papers by him and his col- 
leagues. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 341 

sugar) is the best, as it is less inclined to ferment, and more 
can be taken because of its lack of sweetness. 

Protein has the same drawbaclts in fever as in health, and 
should be limited to from 60 to 90 grams per day. Dr. Cole- 
man does not advocate the use of meat as a source of protein. 
Enough can be obtained elsewhere, and meat is more liable 
to putrefaction. 

Fat is of great value, especially after the first few days of 
the febrile period, and during convalescence. It has a ten- 
dency to cause nausea or diarrhea if given in excess. 

Each patient must he studied to find out his ma.xinium, 
Fat should be given in an emulsified form, as cream, butter 
or egg-yolk. 

The patient should first be put on a low liquid diet (not 
lower than 1000 calories, however) until any undesirable con- 
dition may he corrected. Then as rapidly as possible the fluid 
diets higher in fuel value and then soft diet, are used, until 
the patient's maximum capacity is reached. In the cases 
studied and reported, the various doctors ' have experienced 
little difBculty from the patient himself. Some have taken 
food amounting to GOOO calories a day, without special 
urging. 

The advantages from this purely dietetic treatment of 
typhoid, seem to be many. The patients are contented, al- 
most free from delirium, and not more liable to relapse. Ab- 
dominal distension, and diarrhea, which were considered 
symptoms of the disease, have ceased. Body weight is either 
maintained or any loss is recovered before the patient leaves 
the hospital. The long slow convalescence has apparently 
disappeared. 

From this, at least some of the causes of death from ex- 
haustion, mentioned above, are eliminated. 



Had. Direct 
Tgrt Oitj; 

i 



li City ; : 

_, _. -rohn. Ml, 

, Dr. Shroeder and otheri. 



342 DIET IN DISEASE 

MODIFIED MILK ELTJID DIETS FOB TYPHOID FEYEB 

Dr. W. Coleman 1 

For the convenience of those desiring to use the high calory 
diet, the following combinations of foods are given. They are 
especially useful in the early stages of the disease^ or in the 
case of patients who are unable to take solid food. 

For 1000 calories a day: Calories 

Milk, 1000 c.c. (1 quart) 700 

Cream, 50 c.c. ( 1% oz.) 100 

Lactose, 50 gm. ( 1% oz.) 200 

This furnishes eight feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 120 c.c. (4 oz.) 80 

Cream, 8 gm. (2 dr.) 15 

Lactose, 6 gm. ( 1% dr.) 24 

For 1500 calories a day: 

Milk, 1500 c.c. ( 1% quarts) 1000 

Cream, 50 c.c. (1% oz. ) 100 

Lactose, 100 gm. (3% oz. ) 400 

This furnishes six feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.) 160 

Cream, 8 gm. ( 2 dr. ) 15 • 

Lactose, 16 gm. (4 dr.) 64 

For 2000 calories a day: 

Milk, 1500 c.c. ( 1^ quarts) 1000 

Cream, 240 c.c. (8 oz. ) 500 

Lactose, 120 gm. (4 oz. ) 500 

This furnishes seven feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 210 c.c. (7 oz.) 140 

Cream, 30 c.c. (1 oz. ) 60 

Lactose, 18 gm. ( 41^ dr. ) 72 

For 2500 calories a day: 

Milk, 1500 c.c. ( 1^ quarts) 1000 

Cream, 240 c.c. (8 oz. ) 500 

Lactose, 240 gm. (8 oz. ) 1000 

This furnishes seven feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 210 c.c. (7 oz.) 140 

Cream, 30 c.c. (1 oz. ) 60 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, " American Journal of Medical Sciences," Lea A Febifer, 
Philadelphia, Pa., January, 1912. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 343 

Lactose, 36 gm. (0 dr.) * 114 

For 3000 calories a day: 

Milk, 1600 C.C. ( l^ quarts) 1000 

Cream, 480 c.e. (1 pint) 1000 

Lactose, 240 c.e. (8 ox. | 1000 

This furnishes eight feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 180 C.C. (8 oz.) 120 

Cream. CO c,c. {2 oz.J 120 

Lactose, 30 gm. ( 1 oz.) 120 

For 3900 calories a day: 

Milk, 1500 c.e. (13^ quarta) 1000 

Cream, 480 c.e. (1 pint) 1000 

Lactose, 480 gni. (10 oz.) 1000 

This furnishes eight feedings, each containing: 

Milk, 180 c,e. (6 oz.) 120 

Cream, 00 c.e. (2 oz.) 120 

Laetoae, 60 gm. (2 oz.) 240 

"When the above eombi nations are employed, it is generally 
desirable to add eggs to the diet in order to raise the nitrogen 
to the desired amount. The eggs may be soft-boiled or be 
shaken up in any of the above feedings nnleaa distasteful to 
the patient, though the addition of an egg makes the stronger 
mixtures very rich, I have given some patients who seemed 
iinahle to get enough to eat 4 ounces of milk, 4 ounces of 
cream, 2 ounces of milk sugar, and an egg at a feeding. Such 
patients, however, are except iooal. 

"Milk toast, with the addition of butter or cream, ia rel- 
ished hy many patients, 

" The following menus were arranged by Miss Mary E. 
Sheehan, head nurse in Ward AI of Bellevue Hospital, and 
have been employed, with such modifications as individual 
patients required, for the last two years. They may be fol- 
lowed in general at any stage of the disease if the patient ia 
capable of taking solid and semt-solid food, and if he is hun- 
gry, but are most useful in the later stages, and in convales- 
cence. The night-feedings are given when the patients' tem- 
perature are taken in the course of the ward routine." 

mlUi-mgmr may be given In >ome other fono. 



344 DIET IN DISEASE 

A SOFT DIET FOB TYPHOID OB TYPHOID COKVALESCEHCE i 

(3911 Calories) 

Caloriei 

7 A. M. Egg, 1 80 

Toast, 1 slice 80 

Butter, 20 grams 150 

Coffee 

Cream, 2 oimces . .• 120 

Lactose, 20 grams 80 

9 A. M. Milk, 6 ounces 123 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 10 grams 40 

11 A. M. Egg, 1 80 

Mashed potato, 20 grams 20 

Custard, 4 ounces 250 

Toast (or bread) 1 slice 80 

Butter, 20 grams : 150 

Coffee 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Lactose, 20 grams 80 

1 p. M. Same as 9 A. m 283 

3 P. M.2 Same as 9 a. m 283 

6 P. M. Egg, 1 80 

Cereal, 3 tablespoons 150 

Cream, 2 ounces 120 

Apple sauce, 1 ounce 30 

Tea 

Cream, 3 ounces 180 

Lactose, 20 grams 80 

7 P. M. Same as 9 a. m 283 

10 P. M. Same as 9 A. m 283 

1 A. M. Same as 9 A. m 283 

4 A. M. Same as 9 A. m 283 

Total Calories for day 3911 

A SOFT DIET FOB TYPHOID CONVALESCENCE s 

(4835 Calories) 

Caloriei 

7 A. M. Egg, 1 80 

Toast, 2 slices 160 

1 Dr. W. Coleman, American Journal of Medical Science», Lea and Febifer, 
Philadelphia. Pa., January. 1912. 

2 Lactose lemonade may be substituted for the milk mixture at three o'cloek. 
8 Dr. W. Coleman. American Journal of Medical Sciences, January, 1912. 



346 



DIET IN DISEASE 



4 P.M. Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 

6 P.M. Custard with lactose (full cup). 

8 P.M. Hot milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

10 P.M. Whey, 180 c.c. (6 oz.), with one whole egg and sherry. 

12 P.M. Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 

2 A.M. Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

4 A. M. Broth, 240 c.c. (8 oz.), with one whole egg. 

6 A.M. Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

Appboximate Values 

Protein, 98 gm. (3l^ oz.) ; fat, 52 gm. (1% oz.) ; carbohydrates, 
150 gm. (5 oz.) ; calories, 1900. 



A lilXED FLUID DIET FOB TYPHOID FEYE& (NO. 2) i 

Dr. F. P. Kinnicutt 
(2300 Calories. Lower Protein) 

8 a.m. Milk and coffee, each 120 c.c. (4 oz.). 

10 a.m. Milk, hot or cold, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

12 NOON Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 

2 P. M. Junket with cane- and milk-sugar. 

4 P.M. Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 

6 P. M. Junket with cane- and milk-sugar. 

8 P.M. Hot milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

10 P. M. Whey, 180 c.c, with one whole egg and sherry. 

12 P.M. Oatmeal gruel, 120 c.c. (4 oz.), with milk, 60 c.c. (2 oz.). 

2 A. M. Junket with cane- and milk-sugar. 

4 A. M. Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

6 A. M. Milk, 240 c.c. (8 oz.). 

15 gm. (% oz.) of lactose added to the four milk feedings. 

Appboximate Values 

Protein, 71 gm. {2^^ oz.) ; fat, 81 gm. (2% oz.) ; carbohydrates, 
160 gm. (51^ oz.) ; calories, 2300. 

These typhoid fluid diets can be further augmented by the 
addition of the following articles : 

Lactose or cane-sugar, 30 gm. (1 oz.), 120 calories. 

Pea soup, 180 c.c. (1 cup, 6 oz.), 192 calories (7.5 gm. protein). 

Bean soup, 180 c.c. (1 cup, 6 oz.), 242 calories (12 gm. protein). 

Soda cracker (one), 30 calories (.5 gm. protein). 

Cream 100 c.c. ( 3% oz. ) . 1 

Sugar or lactose 60 gm. (2 oz.) . (. 500 calories. 

Gruel 150 c.c. (5 oz.).J 

1 Dr. F. P. Kinnicutt, " Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital," New York. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 347 

This adds protein, 5 gm. {'^ oz.) ; Sat, 20 gm. (% oz.) ; carbo- 
bydratea, 75 gm. (21^ oz.)- 

700DS 7R0M WHICH A TYPHOID UIXED DIET UAT B£ 
CEOSES 
Uar? S. Kose, Ph.D.i 
Whea the typhoid patient is not limited to a fluid diet, 
foods may be chosen from the following: 

1. Milk in various forms. 

2. Broths — beef, veal, chicken, mutton. 

3. Soupa — potato, pea, bean, carefully strained and thick- 
ened with flour, milk, cream, and egg may be used. 

4. Gruels — always strained. 
6. Eggs, raw or soft-cooked. 

6. Cream and butter, 

7. Custards, ice cream and sherbets, blanc manges, and gel- 
atin jellies. Milk sugar used for sweetening will increaBe 
the fuel value. 

8. Toast. 

9. Breakfast cereals, thoroughly cooked and strained. 

10. Eice, baked and mashed potatoes. 

11, Apple sauce, orange juice aud grape juice. 

DIET IN TOBSILITIS AND QITINBT 
Dr. Thompson 2 

Dietetic Treatment. These diseases require no special care 
in the acute stage, beyond giving food in such fluid form as 
can be most easily swallowed. The pain caused by this act 
is often so extreme that it is advisable to concentrate all food, 
to lessen the number of necessary acts of deglutition. Meat 
juice, petptonoids, beaten eggs and brandy, may be added to 
good milk. Plain vanilla ice cream may be given. Its cold- 
nese is sometimes soothing to the pharynx. 

Holding cracked ice in the mouth before swallowing will 
sometimes annul the pain momentarily, or in extreme cases 

I Uiry Swnm Rose. Pb.D., "Feeding the Fumtly." The UacmlUan Co., Hew 
York. IDIT. 

IW. Gilman Thompaon. M.D.: " Practleil Dletetlo," ISOS. D. Appleton 
k Co,, Hew York. 



348 DIET IN DISEASE 

the pharynx and tonsils may be sprayed with cocaine, and the 
period of temporary anaethesia may be utilized for swallowing 
considerable nourishment. This is rarely necessary, for un- 
less the patient is emaciated by previous serious illness, he is 
not apt to be in need of much food for a day or two. In bad 
cases of suppurative tonsilitis the strength suffers more, and 
stimulants may be given by the rectum if deglutition is im- 
possible. 

After all forms of tonsilitis there is apt to be considerable 
anaemia, and the patient for a week or two should eat abun- 
dantly of animal food. Egg-nog and milk punches are often 
needed for the first few days of convalescence. 

DIET m DIPHTHERIA 
Dr. Thompson! 

Dietetic Treatment. "Alimentation occupies the first 
place in the general treatment ^^ (Trousseau.) Throughout 
the active stage of the disease, while the fever lasts, there is 
difficulty in swallowing. All food should be given in fluid 
form, of which milk is best; or if as sometimes happens, semi- 
solid material is more easily swallowed, the food may be 
thickened with cream, gelatine, eggs or farinaceous articles; 
or beef meal. Malted milk, Hellenes food, or granum, etc., may 
be added for this purpose to. other foods. The diet should 
consist chiefly of nutritious beef or chicken broth and beef 
tea, egg albumin, egg nog, milk and milk punch. Plain 
vanilla ice cream is nutritious, and if not too sweet, it is well 
borne, and is frequently very acceptable to the inflamed throat. 
Simple farinaceous foods, such as arrowroot, thoroughly 
cooked rice, soft cream toast and gruels may be taken. Con- 
tinued disgust of food is a very bad prognostic sign and every 
effort should be made to counteract it by offering variety. 

1 W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : " Practical Dietetics," 1909. D. Appktoa 
& Co., New York. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 349 
MET IN PHEUMONIA 
Dr. Thompson ' 

Dietetic Treatment. The indications for treatment are to 
give a light diet, which will not excite the cough in swallow- 
ing, or increase dyspncea by distention of the stomach, or 
augment the enfeeblement of the heart action by overtaxing 
the digestive powers. Vomiting should be especially guarded 
against, and if nausea exists, efforts sliould be made at once 
to control it. It is not necessary to keep the patient upon a 
rigid milk diet, but if milk is well borne, it is advisable to 
give nothing else while the acute symptoms last; otherwise, 
whey, meat juice, broths, and egg albumin may be allowed. 
Starchy and saccharine food muLst be withheld. Cold drinks 
are both acceptable and beneficial to the patient, and water 
plain or aerated, such as carbonated or soda water, may be 
drunk in considerable quantity. It is believed by some au- 
thorities that the activity of the kidneys may be thus pro- 
moted, and that tlie poison which occasions the constitutional 
symptoms of the disease may be tetter eliminated. There are 
cases, however, among persons with robust circulation, in 
which the onset is very sudden and violent. The pulse is full 
and bounding, and the heart is greatly overworked by the ef- 
fort to propel a large volume of imperfectly aerated blood. 
In such instances the addition of large quantities of fluid to 
the circulation, besides what is actually required for nutrition, 
may have the effect of still further straining the heart. 

It is stated that carbonated waters reduce the viscidity of 
the spuhim, which is often very tenacious. 

The diet should be kept fluid until defervescence has oc- 
curred, with a normal temperature and commencing disap- 
pearance of the exudation — ia fact, it ia well to prolong 
the fluid diet for three or four days after the temperature 
has become normal, in order to make sure that a relapse of 
the fever is not likely to follow. In those cases in which 
resolution is postponed, and the patient becomes more and 

iW. Ollmin TbompgoD. M.D.: " Praclieal Dietetlci," 1SO0. D. Appktoa 
ft Co., New York. 



1 



360 DIET IN DISEASE 

more feeble ,although the temperature may be nearly or quite 
normal, it may be desirable to give a little properly prepared 
solid food somewhat earlier, and scraped beef, with toast, or 
a soft-cooked egg may be added to the milk diet. 

During the entire period of convalescence the diet must 
be very nourishing and of easy digestion ; milk may still be 
given, and after slowly returning to the regulation three meals 
a day (see Diet .in Convalescence from Typhoid Fever), very 
feeble patients do well to take milk punch, or egg-nog, or a 
glass of wine and a biscuit three or four times a day in the 
intervals. • 

Alcohol. In alcoholic subjects who have been drinking up 
to the time of the onset of the disease it may be indispensable 
to continue the use of alcohol, for the sudden withdrawal of its 
stimulating effect on the organism may give rise to rapid col- 
lapse. In aged and constitutionally weak persons it is also 
indicated, but the majority of patients if given abundant fresh 
air do better without it. 

The custom now in vogue of prescribing other forms of 
cardiac stimulants, such as strychnine and vasodilators, like 
nitroglycerin, makes the employment of excessive doses of 
alcohol less imperative. It should always be remembered that 
it is undesirable to produce toxic symptoms of alcoholism in 
pneumonia, as well *s in any other disease. So long as the 
pulse is slowoil and its force strengthened, the use of alcohol 
may be regarded as beneficial; but if delirimn is iDcre^seJ. 
and the odor of whiskey or brandy is strong in the breath la 
hour or two after it has been given, it is an indication xkn 
the patient is reeeivinET more than is desirable, and the doeue 
should bo reduced. 

DIET IH BBOKCHO-PHEIWOHIA 
Br. Thompson i 

Oiototio Treatment. Broncho-pneumonia is alwavs a T«rr 
critical disease, and the utmost care is required in n:irs 

1 W. Oilman Thomp«oa. M.D. : *' Practical Diecccka^*' 19i>9l D 
* Ox. N>w York. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 351 

and feeding. Stimulation may be required early in consider- 
able quantity. Hot milli and vichy in the proportion of one 
part of vicby to two of milk for older cbildren or half and 
half for young infants may have the effect of loosening the 
mucus and easing the cough. If there is any tendency to 
flatulency, aerated waters had better be avoided. When the 
disease occurs in children the diet should be adapted to foster 
the strength and tax the digestive organs as little as possible. 
At first food should be given every two hours, and predigested 
milk is usually all that is required. Later it may be alter- 
nated witli or supplemented by egg albumin, expressed meat 
juice, plain beef or mutton broths, arrowroot, or other gruels. 

BIET IH UXrUPS 
St. TlioinpBon i 
For mumps no special diet is required, beyond the neces- 
sity of giving fluids or soft food while the swelling of the 
parotid glands and fever last. The suggestions for the die- 
tetic treatment of tonsilitis apply to this disease. Aniemia 
is apt to be extreme during convalescence, and meat should 
therefore be plentifully supplied. Cod-liver oil is very ap- 
propriate in protracted convalescence. 

DIET IN WHOOPIHQ COUGH 
Dr. Thompson i 

In whooping cough the paroxysms of coughing are so 
severe as to give rise to vomiting, and in bad cases they are 
excited by taking food whicli does not have an opportunity 
to become assimilated, and nutrition may suffer very seriously 
in consequence, adding to the general exhaustion which ac- 
companies the disease. All food must be made easily as- 
Bimilable. It is best to give food regularly in moderate quan- 
tity at each time, and it should be predigested if neces- 
sary, Pancreatinised milk, kumyss, the prepared amylaceous 

" PrsclicBl DletBlie«." 19n0. D, Appletfln 



352 DIET IN DISEASE 

foods, cream toast, eggs, junket, chicken broth, malted farina- 
ceous foods, custard, milk puddings, gruels thickened with 
meat extracts, and stimulants in the form of egg albumin in 
sherry, egg-nog or milk punch, are recommended for patients 
who vomit solid food. The worst cases reqmre nutrient 
enemata, as exhaustion becomes critical. 

DIET IN TITBEBCULOSIS 

While the proper diet is the primary factor in the treatment 
in tuberculosis, the influence of good hygienic conditions must 
also be emphasized. Plenty of fresh air is an essential 
Whenever it is possible to live out of doors this should be en- 
couraged. Suitable periods of rest, and when possible some 
light exercise should be prescribed. The main object in treat- 
ment is to build up in the body such strong defenses against 
the activity of the tubercle bacillus that its rapid growth is 
arrested, and its results minimized. 

The purpose of the dietetic treatment is to supply such 
foods as will conserve body tissue and help to restore what has 
been lost through disease. Feeding must be carefully con- 
trolled since an overabundance of food may result in injury to 
the organs of digestion and assimilation. For this reason the 
so called " stuffing method,^^ or hyperalimentation, has. been 
largely abandoned in the treatment of tuberculosis. A mod- 
erate amount of food well digested and assimilated is con- 
ducive to better result than overfeeding. Since individuals 
in normal health differ as to their energy requirements accord- 
ing to their weight, age and activity, so the diet in tuberculosis 
must be regulated to meet the individual need. A man at 
active work may require from 3000 to 4000 calories per day. 
but at complete rest, even though under treatment for tuber- 
culosis his energy requirement may be reduced to about 2500 
calories. On the other hand, the sedentary man of the same 
weight, who required perhaps 2500 calories in normal health 
might need 3000 calories if he should undertake some light 
exercise in the course of his treatment for tuberculosis. 

If a patient is underweight the fuel value of the diet ac- 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 353 

cording to Eardswell and Chapman should be increased 30 
per cent, over hia normal requirement for his highest weight 
in health,' and this supply maintained until he gains a slight 
excess over his highest normal weight. At this point his 
diet may be reduced by 15 per cent, so long as it proves 
equal to the maintenance of the required weight. For ex- 
ample an active man with an energy requirement of 3000 
calories per day would need, if tuberculous, additional fuel 
to the extent of 900 calories until the proper weight was 
attained, and then a reduction of 450 calories could be made, 
leaving a daily total of 3450 calories. The increase in fuel 
value may be met by fats, carbohydrates or protein, though 
the capacity for digesting any kind of food must be taken 
into consideration. Fats such as cream, butter, olive oil, 
codliver oil and bacon are all valuable sources of fuel, but 
in some individuals they are not well digested nor assimilated 
in large quantities, so a substitution of some carbohydrate in 
the form of bread stuffs or vegetables may give better re- 

BUlts. 

Since there is a rapid waste of tissue in tuberculosis, the 
diet must contain a rather high per cent, of protein. In the 
normal diet from 10 to 15 per cent, of fuel in the form of pro- 
tein is considered liberal, but it is advisable in this disease to 
raise the protein calories about 30 per cent, and give from 15 to 
20 per cent, of the fuel value of the diet in the form of protein, 
in order to afford the best conditions for building up the tis- 
sues and repairing the waste. With a total energy require- 
ment of 3000 calories a liberal amount of protein is supplied 
by 80 to 120 grams per day. With a 30 per cent, increase 
this would be advanced to between 120 and 155 grams. Pro- 
tein in very large amounts is inadvisable as it may he ac- 
companied by putrefaction, gout or other nutritive disorders 
and so delay the process of repair. Milk and eggs are best 
adapted to this purpose, and they appear most often as the 
basis of a tuberculosis diet, but other forms of protein such 
as those in cereals and legumes may be substituted if they 
are found to be equally digestible. 

1 Mota Knerff ReqalremaDt of the Body, page 4B. 



354 



DIET IN DISEASE 



In planning a diet for tuberculosis there must be the same 
recognition of individual differences as in health. The age 
and sex of the patient, as well as the amount of exercise, must 
be taken into account. While the diet in general should be 
more or less concentrated, a patient who is doing moderate 
work, and is accustomed to considerable bulk can digest with 
ease what a patient of sedentary habits would find quite dif- 
ficult to dispose of. The cost of food is another factor in 
the diet for tuberculosis since the high protein diet demanded 
may prove too expensive especially if largely in the form of 
milk, eggs and meat. Proteins from plant sources, such as 
cereals, legumes, nuts and cheese, may be used in so far as 
they do not interfere with digestion. Oleomargarine, suet 
and beef drippings may replace the more expensive fats, such 
as butter and olive oil when necessary for economy. 

The appetite of the patient in tuberculosis is usually poor; 
hence the food, though simple in character, should be pre- 
pared with the utmost care, and served attractively. Three 
meals a day stimulate the appetite better than a larger num- 
ber. However, if the patient is in such a weak state as to 
be able to take only small quantities at a time, six small 
meals may be given at regular intervals. Sometimes three 
meals with a small amount of food served at bed time will be 
found advisable. 



MENTT FOR FOOD SERVED IN VERY SHALL QTTAHTITIES 

8 A. M. Milk, taken slowly; toast and butter or marmalade. 
10 A. M. Milk, taken slowly, or egg nog. 
1 p. M. Dinner, consisting of small portions of broth, meat or fish, 

potato or macaroni, custard dessert. 
4 P. M. Milk, taken slowly, varied for flavor by addition of cream, 

coffee or cocoa. 
7 P. M. Supper, consisting of small portions of broth, a chop or 

cold meat, bread and butter, cooked fruit. 
6 P. M. Bed time. Milk, taken slowly. 

In this way 2500 or more calories may be taken withont 
overtaxing the digestive system, and an increase up to 3000 
calories may be made by adding more fat in the form of 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 356 

cream, butter, or olive oil served as French Dressing on let- 
tuce, with the dinner. 

SOME INEXPENSIVE MENUS FOB TTTBEBCTTLOSIS i 

Breakfast Qms, Dinner Oma. Supper Oma, 

Prunes 76 Bouillon, wafers . . 120 Creamed beef 89 

Quaker oats, cream 25 Baked halibut 122 Baked potato 80 

Bacon 10 Mashed potatoes . . 160 Dutch cheese .... 39 

Com muffins 20 Stewed tomatoes . 150 Biscuit 43 

Bread, butter .... Lemon jelly, cream 95 Baked apples, 

Coffee, cocoa, milk Bread, butter .... cream 75 

Milk Bread, butter 

Tea, cocoa 

Bread for day 80 gms. 

Butter " " 32 



(t 



Milk " " 1430 

Cream " " 160 " 



St 



Cocoa " " 260 

Sugar " " 78 

Average per patient per day: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Calories 

127 107 372 3041 

Breakfast 0ms. Dinner 0ms, Supper 0ms. 

Orange Fricasseed chicken 200 Boston Baked 

Pettijohns 24 Sliced Tomatoes . 98 beans, ketchup . 82 

Sausage 63 Mashed potatoes . 126 Marmalade 15 

Com bread 40 Boiled rice 37 Chocolate cake ... 67 

Bread, butter Vanilla ice cream. 120 Prunes 63 

Coffee, cocoa Bread, butter Bread, butter 

Milk, cream Milk Tea, cocoa, milk . . 

Bread for day 120 gms. 

Butter " " 28 

Milk « " 1649 

Cream " " 155 

Cocoa " " 180 

Sugar " " 60 

Average per patient per day: 

Protein Fat Carbohydrate Calories 

146 123 419 3456 

1 Actually served at the Loomis Sanatorium — cf . King, " On the Construc- 
tion of an EiBcient and Economic Diet in Tuberculosis," Medical Record, Oct. 
16. 1909. 



tt 
tt 
t( 
tt 
tt 



CHAPTER XV 
DIET Iir DISOSDEKS OF NUTJUTIOH 

DIET nr DIABETES 

• 

Diabetes Mellitus is a condition of the body in which carbo- 
hydrates are not fully utilized and accumulate in the blood as 
sugar (glucose) until a certain concentration is reached, when 
the sugar is excreted in the urine. Diabetes is believed to be 
due to a deficiency in the internal secretion of the pancreas. 

During the progress of the disease, the power to use carbo- 
hydrate decreases ; there is also a loss in the ability to use pro- 
tein and fat. The sugar in the blood may come from proteins 
as well as from carbohydrate. In severe cases proteins and 
fats give rise to acids which are responsible for the complica- 
tion called acidosis or ketonuria, so common in diabetes. 
Ketonuria is believed to be a direct factor in causing coma. 

It is essential that any line of treatment result in a sugar 
free urine. The acids disappear during the treatment now 
used, and so are treated incidentally. 

It is found that acidosis is very apt to ensue if carbohydrate 
be suddenly withdrawn and fat substituted, consequently it is 
advantageous to use a preparatory period, which precedes the 
starvation treatment introduced by Dr. Allen, to whom we 
owe much of the knowledge of the best way to treat diabetes 
mellitus. 

DR. JOSLIN'S FREFARATOBY TREATMENT 

Withdraw fat from the diet. In two days withdraw pro- 
tein. Two days later, halve the carbohydrate, and continue 
to halve the remainder each day until but 10 grams are given. 
Begin the fast. 

356 



r 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 357 

TEE FASTIHG PERIOD 

This treatment is successful only when the urine becomes 

sugar free. Fast two to four days or longer, until the desired 

I " result is obtained. Give water, tea, coffee and broth freely 

I during the fast. They prevent hunger and are stimulating. 

CABBOETDBATE FEEDIHQ 

When feeding begins, it is important that there be no 
repetition of the same vegetable during a single day. 
Monotony in the diet of adults must be avoided if the best 
results are to be obtained. Green vegetables containing not 
over 5 per cent, carbohydrate prevent constipation. If given 
raw or steamed, no carboiiydrate is lost and the valuable salts 
are conserved. If the patient cannot take even this small 
amount of carbohydrate, the vegetables may be made to lose 
much starch by boiling in three watera, throwing the first two 
away after the vegetable has cooked for a few minutes, and 
then cook at least fifteen minutes in all. These are " thrice 
cooked vegetables." '■ 

A DIABETIC CHABT 
Dr. Elliott P. Joaim a 
The intelligent management of a case of diabetes mellitns 
requires frequent comparisons between the diet, the urinary 
analyses and the weight of the patient. These data are often 
printed or written down in four or five different places, and 
the labor of uniting them is so great that it is seldom at- 
tempted. Any accurate study of a ease is thus extremely 
difficult, and in hospitals past records are almost useless. To 
facilitate the treatment of diabetic patients and to eliminate 
some of the annoying sources of error, we have used a chart 
for some years upon which some of these facts were recorded. 

) Nole vige UStl for geoersl directions In cooking " thrice cooked TeeeUblea," 
I Dr. Elliotl P. Joilin. " The Treatment of Diabetea UellitDi,'' Lea ± 
Feblger. Pbiltdelphia, Ps., igiS. 




nmT m disease 





a 

i 


h 




iJ* 




|=* 




ili^ 


3 


JS5« 


1 

3 


111 


1 


»11 




II 




s 




1 




ss 


s 




1 
1 




"' 






1 




i 




l| 




s 

5 








i 




i 

o 




1 




3 


II 

i 

i 

i 



£ 1 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 359 

Otir chart wae designed chiefly for the benefit of the physician, 
in contrast to the charts in use in various German clinics, 
which have a broader application and are of direct help not 
only to the physician, but also to the nurse and the patient 
SB well. By this latter arrangement the chart becomes the 
nurse's record, and upon it the nurse writes what the patient 
actually eats. We have attempted to combine the two methods 
on the following chart, and hope tliat it will be found helpful 
and suggestive in the treatment of diabetic patients. 

Space is reserved upon the chart for the Doctor's orders and 
the nurse's record, as well as the urinary analyses. There is 
given, in addition, a statement of the foods commonly allowed 
in a strict diabetic diet, with the percent of carbohydrates in 
other foods which are occasionally employed, 

8VG0ESTED DIET FOR DIABETES UNDEB FASTIIia TEEATUEBT 

Observation Diet. — The severity of diabetes is determined 
by an observation diet for forty-eight hours. 

Fast Until Sugar-Free. — The patient is placed in bed (if 
necessary) and nxade to fast until sugar free. No food is 
given with the exception of coffee, tea or broth and whiskey 
if necessary, quantity depending upon the physician's judg- 
ment. 

Carbohydrate Test, — Start with 10 grams of carbohydrates 
in green 5 per cent, vegetables, increase 10 grams daily until 
sugar appears in urine. Vegetables are given as salads raw or 
steamed. 

First Day — 10 grams carbohydrates. Total calories, 65. 

Grams Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

AepsragiiB 20O 3,0 .2 5,6 

Lettuce 50 .7 .2 l.T 

Celery 00 1.2 .1 2.7 

QnuDB 340 4.9 .5 10.0 

Calories 20. 4. 41. 

Total Calories 05 

Fast Until Sugar-Free. — Follow directions as given above. 



L 



360 DIET IN DISEASE 

Mixed Diet. The diet is gradually built up with protein, 
fat and carbohydrates, keeping the patient sugar free. Give 
tea, coffee or broth ; thrice cooked ^ vegetables and bran bis- 
cuit ^ to secure the necessary bulk. 

Vegetables are used raw, steamed or thrice cooked (cooking 
at least 15 minutes and pour off all the water) . 

First Day — Protein 35, Fat 29, Carbohydrate 10, Total 
Calories, 450. 

Total Grams Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

Breakfast — Egg 1 150 22.3 15.9 

Asparagus (canned) 100 gms. 100 1.5 .1 2.8 
Bran Biscuits 2 (G) (15 gms. 

Bran) 15 12.3 

Coffee 1 cup 

Dinner — Lean Beef 46 gms. . 46 9.6 

Butter 5 

Lettuce 50 1 100 1.3 .4 33 

Celery 65 / {g 

Cauliflower T. C.s 100 gms. 

Bran Biscuits 2 

Clear soup 1 cup 

Coffee 1 cup 

Supper — Eggs 2 

Butter 

Spinach T. C. 100 gms. . . . 

Lettuce 60 gms Xnci a a 

Raw Tomato 50 gms J ^" •* ^ 2.0 

Bran Biscuits 2 

Clear Soup 1 cup 

Total grams 35.0 28.0 10.0 

Calories 143 268 41 

Total Calories 452 

The Fast Day. Eegularly one day a week the patient has a 
fast day, taking tea, coffee and broth only. 

1 See page 262 for general directions in cooking "thrice cooked vegetablas.** 

2 Note Dr. F. M. Allen's recipe for bran biscuit, page 253. 

8 Calculations in table have been condensed, for instance, the 8 e^gi for the 
dav are reckoned together in the first line. 
4T. C. (Thrice Cooked). 



r 


] 


mSORDEBS OF NUTRITION 


361 J 


SUGQESTKD CAEBOHTDBATE TEST MEHTTS ' 


1 


First Dat 


1 


Order: 10 Grnraa of Carbohydratea, 60 Calories 


1 


CALOBIGS ' 


Breakfast. ABparaguS lOOgrams (21ieaping thsp.) 


16 


Coffee 236C..C. (Icup) 




Dinner. Lettuce 25 grama (2 to 3 medium leaves 


5.3 


Celery 45 grama (3 pieceB2i4 in. long) 


S.4 


Aaparagua lOOgrams (2 heaping tbsp.) 


16 


Broth 236 c.<:. (loup) 




Supper. Lettuce SSgraJna (2 to3 mediumlearea 


5.3 


Celery 43 grama OpiecesZU in. long) 


8.1 


Tea or Coffee 236 c.e. (1 cup) 




Total 


60,1 . 


Second Day 


Order: 20 Grama Carbohydrates, Calories 125 




Breakfast. Aaparagus 200 grama (4 heaping tbap.) 


32 


Coffee 230 c.c. (Icup) 




Dinner. Spinach 200 grama (5 heaping tbap.) 


50 


Lettuce OOgrams (5 or Qmed.leaves) 


11 


Tomato 20 grams 




Supper. Lettuce 50 grama (5or 6 med. leavea) 


11 


Celery SOgrams 15 piecea 2i^ in. long) 


16 


Total 


125 


THian Day 




Order: 30 Grama Carbohydratea, 193 Calories 




Breakfatl. String beans SOgrams (4 heaping tbsp.) 


39 


Asparagus 200 grama (4 heaping tbap.) 


31 


Tea or Coffee 236 c.c. ( 1 cup ) 




DimuT. Cauliflower lOOgrams (2 heaping tbap.) 


38 


Spinach ISOgrama (?i cup) 


33 


Lemon jelly 121 grams (% cup) 


22 


Tea or Coffee 236 cc. {Icup) 




Supper. Cueumbera 60 grama (6 slices) 


8 


Celery 125 grama (6 pea. 6 in. long) 


22 


Tea or Coffee 236 c.c. (Icup) 




or Broth 




Total 


103 


1 Note Tktd< of Food Talaei According (o IndiTidual Serving^ page T 


l-A. 



362 



DIET IN DISEASE 



Fourth Day 
Order: 40 Grams Carbohydrates, 271.9 Calories 



BreaJefast. 



Dinner, 



Supper, 



Brussels sprouts 
Celery 
Grapefruit 
Tea or Coffee 
Shredded cabbage 
Eggplant 
Carrots 
Asparagus 
Tea or Coffee 
Tomatoes (raw) 
String beans 
Rhubarb 



70 grams 
90 grams 

236 C.C. 

100 grams 
50 grams 
60 grams 

200 grams 

236 C.C. 

100 grams 

100 grams 

100 grams 



CAL0BIE8 

( 2 heaping tbsp. ) 24 

(5% pes. 2^ in. long) 16 

20 
(Icup) 

(l%cup) 30 

( 1 heaping tbap. ) 27.9 

(%c. diced) 28 

(4 heaping tbsp.) 31 
(Icup) 

( 1 small 2 in. dia. ) 22 
( 2 heaping tbsp. ) 47 

(%c. cooked) 26 



Total 271.0 



Fifth Day 
Order: 50 Grams Carbohydrates, 294 Calories 



Breakfast 



Dinner. 



Supper, 



Orange 

Asparagus 

Celery 

Tea or Coffee 

Onions, boiled 

Turnips 

String beans 

Broth 

Spinach 

Carrots 

Tea or Coffee 



200 grams 
100 grams 
236 C.C. 
100 grams 
100 grams 
100 grams 
236 c.c. 
150 grams 
100 grams 
236 c.c. 



( 6 med. stalks) 

(6 pes. 2% in. long) 

(Icup) 

(2 heaping tbsp.) 

(2 heaping tbsp.) 

(2 heaping tbsp.) 

(1 cup) 

( 3 heaping tbsp. ) 

(2 heaping tbsp.) 

(1 cup) 



20 
31 

18 

50 
42 
50 

38 
45 



Total 204 



Sixth Day 
Order: 60 Grams Carbohydrates, 369 Calories 



Breakfast, 



Dinner. 



Grapefruit 

String beans 

Cauliflower 

Onions 

Squash 

Beets 

Kohlrabi 



% 



200 grams (4 heaping tbsp.) 

1 00 grams ( 2 heaping tbsp. ) 

30 grams 
100 grams 

10 grams ( 1 tbsp. diced) 
200 grams 



40 
100 
37.6 
15 
51 
4.5 
61J 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 363 

CALORIES 

Supper. Peas 50gramB 27.7 

11.2 
6.5 
18 



Peas 


50 grams 


Tomatoes 


50 grams 


Lettuce 


25 grams 


Celery 


100 grams 



Total 369 

SUGGESTED MIXED DIETS i 

FiBST Day 

Order: Protein 35, Fat 29, Carbohydrate 10, Total Calories 450. 



Breakfast, Egg, 1 


50 grams 




75 


Asparagus (can) 


100 grams 


(2 heaping tbsp.) 


15 


Butter 


5 grams 




33.4 


Bran biscuits 


2 






(5 grams bran) 








Coffee 


236 c.c. 


(Icup) 




Dinner, Lean beef 


46 grams 




175 


Butter 


5 grams 




33.4 


Lettuce 


50 grams 


(4 to 6 med. leaves) 


10.6 


Celery 


65 grams 




12 


Cauliflower T. C. 


100 grams 


(2 heaping tbsp.) 


38 


Bran biscuits 


2 






Clear soup 


236 c.c. 


(Icup) 




Coffee 


236 C.C. 


(Icup) 




Supper, Butter 


6 grams 




33.4 


Spinach T. C. 


100 grams 


(2 heaping tbsp.) 


15.1 


Lettuce 


50 grams 


(4 to 6 med. leaves) 


10.6 


Tomatoes (raw) 


50 grams 


(^ small2in. dia.) 


11 


Bran biscuits 


2 






Clear soup 


236 c.c. 


(Icup) 




Total 






450 


Second Day 






Order: 


548 Calories. 




Breakfast, Grape fruit 


% 




20 


Egg, 


1 




75 


String beans 


50 grams 


(1 heaping tbsp.) 


25 


Asparagus 


100 grams 


(2 heaping tbsp.) 


15 


Bran biscuits 


2 






Coffee 


236 c.c. 


(Icup) 





1 Not« Table of Food Values According to Individual Servings, page 71-A« 



364 



DIET IN DISEASE 



Dinner, Codfish (fresh) 



Carrots 
Graham bread 
Wine jelly 
Bran biscuits 

Spinach 
Orange 
Bran biscuits 
Total 



Supper. 



60 grams ( 1 very small help 

ing) 

150 grams (3 heaping tbsp.) 

16 grams ( 1 slice ) 

113 grams (% cup) 
2 
1 

200 grams (4 heaping tbsp.) 
1 small 
2 



GAL0BIE8 

120 
67 
50 
30 

75 
31 
40 



548 



Thibd Day 
Order: 769 Calories. 



Breakfast. Oatmeal 



Dinner, 



Supper, 



Milk 

Egg 

Bacon 

String beans 

Bran biscuits 

Beefsteak 

Onions 

Carrots 

Coffee jelly 

English walnuts 

Bran biscuits 

Coffee 

Grape fruit 

Celery 

Tomatoes 



10 grams ( 1 rounding tbsp. 
cooked ) 
(%cup) 



150 grams 
1 

14 grams 
50 grams 
2 
60 grams 
150 grams 
50 /g^ams 
llS^Tams 
8 
2 
236 c.c. 

y2 

50 grams 
50 grams 



(4 small pieces) 
(1 heaping tbsp.) 



(3 onions size of egg) 
(1 heaping tbsp.) 
(1 average helping) 



(Icup) 

(3 pes. 21^ in long) 
( % small, 2 in. dia. ) 



40 
100 

75 
100 

25 

150 
75 
22 

100 



40 

9 

11 



Total 7e9 



Breakfast. 



Grape fruit 
Oatmeal 



FouKTH Day 
Order: 926 Calories. 
1/^ (small) 
10 grams ( 1 rounding tbsp. 



Milk 

String beans 
Brussels sprouts 
Cream 20% 
Bran biscuits 



cooked ) 

150 grams (%cup) 

1 

50 grams ( 1 heaping tbsp. ) 

50 grams ( 1 heaping tbsp. ) 

30 grams (2 tbsp.) 
2 



40 

40 
100 
75 
25 
10 
60 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



365 



Dinner. Hamburger steak 
Lettuce 
Cucumbers 
Turnips 
Rhubarb jelly and 

cream 
Bran biscuits 

Supper, Eggs 

Oysters 

Cream 20% 

Asparagus 

Celery 

Bran biscuits 



CALOBIES 

90 grams 225 

10 grams ( 1 medium sized leaf) 2 

30 grams (4 slices) 5 

150 grams ( 3 heaping tbsp. ) 61 



150 grams 

120 grams ( % cup ) 
2 
2 
6 

15 grams (Itbsp.) 
100 grams ( 2 heaping tbsp. ) 
75 grams (4% pes. 2% in long) 
2 



25 

150 
50 
30 
15.4 
13 



Breakfast 



Dinner, 



Supper. 



Fifth Day 


%^mm-%0 


Order: 


1276 Calories. 




Grapefruit 

Egg 
Bacon 

Bran biscuits 


1 
30 grams (8 small slices) 
2 


40 

75 

200 


Toast 


1 slice 


50 


Coffee 
Salmon 
Squash 

Tomatoes cooked 
Watercress and 


236 c.c. (Icup) 

100 grams 

100 grams ( 2 heaping tbsp. ) 

100 grams (2% heaping tbsp. ) 


200 
51 
23 


cottage salad ^ 
Coffee jelly 
Bran biscuits 


1 00 grams ( 2 ^ heaping tbsp. ) 
113 grams ( 1 average helping ) 
2 


250 
22 


Tea or coffee 

Boiled ham 

Shredded cabbage 

Toast 

Butter 

Tea or coffee or 


236 c.c. (Icup) 
50 grams 

90 grams ( 2 rounding tbsp. ) 
30 grams (2 slices) 
14 grams (Itbsp.) 


135 

30 

100 

100 


cracked cocoa 


236 c.c. (Icup) 




al calories 


1276 



1 Made from 5 % tap. cottage cheese, 1 tbsp. oil, 1 tbsp. vinegar, 5 or 6 walnuts 
and cress. 



366 



DIET IN DISEASE 



Sixth Day 
Order: 1524 Calories. 



Breakfast. 



Dinner, 



8upper, 



Gluten breakfast 

food 
Milk 

Egg 

String beans 

Orange 

Bran biscuits 

Corn beef 

Spinach 

Potatoes 

Lettuce and cu- 
cumber salad, 
French dress- 
ing 

Ice cream 

Bran biscuits 

Tea or coffee 

Eggs, 2 

Stuffed tomatoes 

Toast 

Butter 

Cheese 

Strawberries 

Bran biscuits 



30 grams 
120 grams ( % cup ) 

1 
100 grams ( 2 heaping tbsp. ) 



2 



CALOBIES 

150 
100 

75 
50 
20 



120 grams 

120 grams ( 2^ heaping tbsp. ) 
30 grams (l^ medium potato) 



155 grams 
60 grams 
2 • 
236C.C. (Icup) 

2 
120 grams 
2 slices 
15 grams 

22 grams ( 1 % cube ) 
50 grams 
2 



200 
33 
25 



225 
135 



150 
42 
100 
100 
100 

1ft 



Total calories 1524 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



367 



A LOW FBICED DIETABY FOB A DIABETIC ALLOWED 50 
GBAMS (200 CALOBIES) OF CABBOHYDBATE FEB DAYi 



O 

•a 



ml W 

s * 



-2 

OS 
OS 08 






Breakfast 

Scrambled eggs . . 

Bacon 

Soy bean muffins . 

Butter 

Cream, thick 



Dinner 

Hamburg Steak .... 

Lentil Puree 

Whole wheat bread . 

Butter 

Cottage Cheese Salad 
Coffee 



Supper 

Boiled Ham . . . . 

Deviled egg 

Shredded cabbage 

Lemon jelly 

Brazil nuts 

Whipped Cream . 



2 eggs 

8 small pieces 

2 muffins 

2 tbsp. 

1^ tbsp. 



2 balls 
1 serving 

1 slice 

1 tbsp. 
1 serving 

1 cup 



2 slices 

1 egg & 1 tbsp. cream 

1% cups 

% cup 

2 large nuts 

4 tbsp. 



4.0 
1.0 
2.1 
1.0 
0.9 



4.0 

• • 

0.7 
0.5 
3.9 



2.5 
2.3 
3.4 
4.3 
0.5 
1.8 



i 



45 

50 
2 
2 

125 



170 

30 

8 

1 

82 



291 



57 

25 

6 

8 

10 
5 

111 



29 

3 

32 



68 
41 

• • 

19 



128 



21 

14 

4 

6 

45 



527 205 



150 
200 
167 
200 
100 

817 



200 
175 
50 
100 
250 



775 



200 
100 
30 
22 
100 
200 

652 

2244 



1 Mary S. Bote, Ph.D., " Feeding the Family." The MacmiUan Co.. 1917. 



368 DIET IN DISEASE 

FOODS ABBAKGED IK OBDEB OF THEIB CAKBOHYDBAIS 
CONTENT, FBOK LOWEST TO HIGHEST i 

The following table was giyen to me by Dr. F. M. Allen, The Hospital of 
the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. New York. 1917. 

Meats 

Edible Portion Protein Fat Carbohydnte 

% % % 

Bacon 10.0 67.2 

Bacon crisp 10.0 

Beef, Sirloin, very lean 20.5 6.4 

Beef — Round, very lean 20.8 6.8 

Chicken 22.8 1.8 

Ham, very lean 20.2 20.8 

Pork — Tenderloin 19.5 14.4 

Pork — Loin 19.7 19.0 

Lamb 10.1 12.4 

Veal 21.0 3.6 

Fresh Fish 

Sea Bass 18.8 0.6 

Blue Fish 19.0 1.2 

Cod — fresh 15.8 0.4 

Flounder 13.9 0.6 

Halibut 18.3 5.2 

Salmon 20.6 12.8 

Shad Roe 20.9 3.8 2.6 

Shad whole 18.6 9.5 

Vesretables 

Cucumbers fresh 0.8 0.2 2.5 

Asparagus canned 1.5 O.l 2.8 

Celery fresh 1.4 0.1 3*0 

Spinach fresh 2.1 0.6 3.1 

Asparagus fresh 1.8 0.2 33 

Lettuce fresh 1.3 0.4 33 

HruMols Sprout;) canned 1.5 0.1 34 

Uhulmrb fresh 0.6 0.7 3.6 

UiMin9« String canned 1.1 0.1 39 

'romi*t*>o*» freah fresh 0.8 0.4 3.9 

Towut^HNi canned 1.2 0.2 40 

l^ruik^H'U Spr\>ut« fresh 4.7 1.1 4j 

Snuovkri^ut 1.5 0.8 44 

Ar()ohoW«Mi canned 0.8 5 q 

Lt^U 12 0.6 5^8 

KitupUM frwb L2 0.3 5.1 

rumpkU\ frt«h LO 0.1 59 

i\i\HiiwU^r |v|AW« 0.5 0.6 5.4 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 369 

Edible Portion Protein Fat Carbohydrate 

% 

Kohl-rabi fresh 2.0 

Cabbage fresh 2.1 

Cauliflower fresh 1.6 

Radishes fresh 1.4 

Turnips fresh 1.4 

Carrots fresh 1 .1 

Beans, string fresh 2.2 

Beets fresh 1.6 

Peas, Green canned 3.6 

Onions fresh 1 .7 

Squash fresh 1.6 

Lima Beans canned 4.0 

Corn, Green fresh 2.8 

Peas, Green fresh 4.4 

Parsnip fresh 1 .7 

Artichoke fresh 2.6 

Potatoes fresh 2.1 

Lima Beans fresh 7.1 

Bread 9.5 

Fruits 

Grapefruit 

Watermelon 0.3 

Strawberries 1 .0 

Blackberries 0.9 

Muskmelon 0.6 

Peaches 0.7 

Pineapple 0.4 

Orange 0.9 

Lemon Juice 

Cranlierries 0.6 

Baspberries 1.0 

Grapes 1.0 

Apricots 1.1 

Pears 0.6 

Apples 0.5 

Dairy Products 

Eggs — 1 7.5 

Eggs — 100 gms., 14.9 

Butter 

Whole Milk 3.3 



% 


% 


0.1 


5.5 


0.4 


5.8 


0.8 


6.0 


0.1 


6.6 


0.2 


8.7 


0.4 


9.2 


0.4 


9.4 


0.1 


9.6 


0.2 


9.8 


0.4 


9.9 


0.6 


10.4 


0.3 


14.6 


1.1 


14.1 


0.5 


16.1 


0.6 


16.1 


0.2 


16.7 


0.1 


18.0 


0.7 


22.0 


1.2 


52.8 




5.0 


0.1 


6.5 


0.1 


6.8 


0.2 


7.5 




9.3 


0.1 


9.4 


0.3 


9.7 


0.6 


9.7 




9.8 


0.7 


10.1 




12.6 


1.3 


13.3 




13.4 


0.8 


14.2 


0.5 


16.6 


5.3 




10.6 




82.4 




4.0 


5.0 



370 



DIET IN DISEASE 



Edible Portion Protein 

% 

Buttermilk 3.0 

Whiting's Milk (Sugar of 

Milki) 6.97 

Cream, Average 2.6 

CHEESE 

Dutch 37.1 

Cheddar 28.2 

Cheshire 26.9 

Cream 25.9 

American — pale 28.8 

American — red 29.6 

Limburger 23.0 

Boudon 15.4 

Swiss 27.6 

Brie 15.9 

Neufchatel 18.7 

Roquefort 22.6 



Fat 


Carbohydrtte 


% 


% 


0.5 


18 


7.36 




18.5 


4i 


17.7 




32.0 




31.6 




31.7 




36.2 




38.3 




29.4 


0.4 


21.7 


0.7 


34.9 


U 


21.0 


1.4 


27.4 


•i 


20.6 


.8 



OATMEAL DAY DIET IK DIABETES XELLITTTS 

Johns Hopkins 



o 



i 



Oatmeal, 250 gm 

Butter, 250 gm 

Whites of 6 eggs 

Whisky, 90 c.c.l 

or 
Brandy, 70 c.c 

or 
Claret, 450 c.c 

or 

Sour white wine, 450 c.c 
2 cups of black coffee ... 



o 

u 



40.0 

2.5 

25.0 



36 






^M 









6.4 15.0 
0.4 213.0 
4.0 0.4 



6 



170 



■Sft 

O 

lOOA 

1990 

105 



Total 36 68 11 228 170 3371 

1 D. Whiting & Sons. 570 Rutherford Ave.. Boston, Mass. 



DTSOHDERS OF JVUTHITION 

































































































FRUITS 
































































NUTS 


Br All 1 nuta 


Almonds 


PeanuU 








40» 


Pitmuhas 
















Filhfrts 






MISCELLANEOUS 

iDSH-cclennl and unapired Pickle 


• Reckon available mrbohydrale! In 
in vcgetatika of t« group aa if, at 111* 


Scallow Flah roe Liver 


BTOUD aa a». 





Carboh yd tales, 



OatmeBl, dryweieht 

Cream, 40 per cent 


:i '1 


















Fiali. cod, haddock (cooked) S.I) a 




!S^i"i^oju>i _ ' ■• 


Ikiloeram- 
MBiumslen.. 

\ paWeSfat 
kilo body 



eisbt per if^, appr 



s{c.c.)- 
limalely 



Superintendent of Uocumer 
MCticutAciirullunilEicper 
DnutMIH . Part I, Section i.— rree. 

• Dr. Elliott P. Jotlln. "The Treatment 
PhlladelphlB, Pa.. IBm. 

• Seot^leor"l'oDdValues"accordinKtii 



igton. D. C nlsn Annual Report nr Ihe Con- 
Ion. Kevi Hayen, Conn., Food Products and 

if Diabetes Meilltus." Lea & Febiger, 



372 DIET IN DISEASE 

OKEEH DAY SIEI IH SXABETE8 

^ " J^ fe O o 

1 egg (boiled or poached) .. 6.6 1.1 6.0 .. 83 
Cup of black coffee. 

Dinner: 

Spinach, with a hard-boiled 

egg 6.6 1.1 6.0 Trace 83 

Bacon, 15 gm 1.5 0.2 9.8 Trace 100 

Salad with 15 gm. of oil . . Trace Trace 16.0 Trace 150 

Whisky, 30 c.c 12 83 

Supper: 

1 eggy scrambled, with to- 
mato and a little butter 6.6 1.1 6.0 . . 83 

Bacon, 15 gm 1.5 0.2 9.8 . . 100 

Cabbage, cauliflower, sauer- 
kraut, string-beans or 
asparagus Trace Trace Trace Trace 15 

Whisky, 30 c.c 12 . . 83 

Bedtime : 

Cup of beef tea or chicken 

broth 3.0 0.5 Trace . . 12 

Total 24 26 4 53 Trace 792 

Sodium bicarbonate, 15 to 30 gm. in the twenty-four hours. 

TYPICAL MENUS USES IN DIABETES 
PATIENT — AN ADULT i 

First Day, 107 Calories 

Orders: Orange, 1; grapefruit, %; 5% vegetables, 150 graiiiB — 
107 total calories. 

Breakfast. — Coffee, 150 grams; broth; orange, %; asparagus, 60 
grams. 

1 Dr. Elliott P. Joslin, " Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus." 1916. " 



r 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 373 



Dinner. — Grapefruit, Vt; broth; tomatoes, 50 grama. 

Afternoon.— OT&ttge, ^. 

Supper. — String beane, 50 grama; eggplant, 58 grama; tea; grape- 
fruit, M. 

StxTH Day, 299 Caloriea 

Ordera: 10% vegetablee, 150 graiosi orange, 14; 5% Tegetables, 
200 grams; grapefruit, i^; meat, 60 grams; eggs, 2 — 299.5 total 
calories. 

Breakfast, — Grapefruit, ^; egg, 1; fltring beana, 60 grams; as- 
paragus, 50 grama; coffee. 
I Lu«ch.~~ Fieh, 60 grama; cfirrota, 150 grama; orange, V>. 

.Afternoon. — Broth. 

Supper. — Egg; cracked cocoa; apinacb, 100 grams; grapefruit, y. 

PATIEHI — AaS 2 YEAES, 4 MONTHS i 

(Dr. Joalin) 

FiEsT Day, 49 Calories 

Order: 6 per cent, vegetables, 100 grams, sugar free; milk, 30 

I grama — 40.3 total calories. 

Breakfast. — Broth, 60 grams; atring beana, 30 grams; sugar free 
I milk, 10 grams. 

' Dinner. — Brotb, 00 grams; cabbage, 40 grams; sugar free milk, 

I 10 grams. 

Supper. — Broth, 80 grams; asparagua, 30 grams; sugar free milk, 
I 10 grams. 

FIFTEESTH Day, 310 Calories 
Order: Oatmeal, 6 grams; 5 per cent, vegetable, 150 grams; 20 
per cent, cream, GO grains; meat, 15 grams; egg, 1 gram — 310 total 
calories, 
, Breakfatt. — Broth with cream, 15 grams; oatmeal, 5 grama, with 

cream, 15 grama. 

Dinner. — Meat, 16 grams; string beana, 50 grams; coffee jelly with 
cream, 15 grama. 

Suppcr.-^'E^, 1; eelery, 50 grama; cream, 15 grama; broth; as- 
paragua, 60 grams. 

CABBOHTDRATE TEST DIET. TOTAL CALORIES 127 
Hill and Eckman ^ 
Breakfati. — 

Asparagus (canned), 75 grams . (1% h. thsp. chopped) 11,5 

Cabbage, 0S grams (1 very h. thsp.) 23. 

Tea or coff«e 

1 Dr, ElltDtt P. JoaliD. " TrailDieDt of 1 
1 " SUnMiion Treitment of Diatwtei. 
Boaloa. Mau., IBIS. 



^ 



374 DIET IN DISEASE 

Dinner. — 

Onions, cooked, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 50. 

Celery, 50 grams (3 pieces about 4% in. long) 9. 

Tea or coffee 

Supper. — 

Spinach, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 25. 

Celery, 50 grams (3 pieces 4% in. long) 9. 

Tea or coffee 

Total 127i 

Protein, 7 grams; fat, 6 grams; carbohydrate, 16 grams; totil 
calories, 150. 

MIXES DIET. TOTAL CALOEIES 379 

Hill and Eckman i 

Breakfast. — 

String beans, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 50 

Egg, 1 75 

Coffee 

Dinner. — 

^ggy 1 75 

Turnips, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 42 

Cabbage, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 35 

Tea 

Supper. — 

Egg, 1 75 

Turnips, 100 grams (2 b. tbsp.) 42 

Spinach, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 35 

Tea — 

Total 379 

Protein, 24 grams; fat, 22 grams; carbohydrate, 8 grams; total 
calories, 370. 

MIXED DIET. TOTAL CALOBIES 1148 
Hill and Eckman 1 

lircakfast. — 

Bacon, 50 grams (2 slices about 6 in. long) 

Asparagus, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp. or 9 stalks 4 in. 

long (canned) 
Spinach, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 

Butter 
('roam 
(\)ffre 

I •' HturvHtlon Treatment of Diabetes," Hill & Eckman. W. !£. Leonard. 
Hoaton. Mamn.. 1010. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 376 

Dinner. — 

Steak, 100 grams (1 small serving) 

Turnips, 140 grams (2 h. tbsp. -|-) 

Spinach, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 

Cabbage, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 

Butter 

Tea 

Cream 

Supper. — 

Spinach, 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 

String beans (cooked) 100 grams (2 h. tbsp.) 

Cauliflower (cooked) 120 grams (2 h. tbsp. -f) 

Butter 

Tea 

Cream 

Allow during the day-^ 

Butter, 20 grams 
Cream, 2% oz. 

Protein, 35 grams; carbohydrate, 17 grams; fat, 100 grams; 1143 
total calories. 

CABBOHYDBATE PBEE DIET, 500 CALOBIES 

Dr. Hosenthali 

Calobies 

Breakfast, — Egg, 1 83 

Bacon,2 60 grams 88 

Black coffee 

Dinner, — Broth, 160 c.c 16 

Steak, 40 grams 77 

5% vegetable (thrice cooked), 200 grams 33 

Butter, 5 grams 40 

Black coffee 

Supper, — Broth, 150 c.c 16 

Steak, 40 grams 77 

5% vegetables, 200 grams 33 

Butter, 5 grams 40 

Tea 

Total 503 

1 ** Tie Treatment of Diabetes MeUitos,*' Dr. H. O. Mosenthal, Baltimore Md, 
t The bacon is weighed uncooked. 



376 DIET IN DISEASE 

GA&BOHTB&AIX FXEE BIET, 1000 CALO&IES 

nr. Motentlial 1 

Breakfast,— Eggs, 2 166 

Bacon, 50 gruns Ill 

Butter, 5 grams 40 

Black coffee 

Dinner. — Broth, 150 grams 16 

Steak, 100 grams 193 

5% Y^etable ( thrice cooked) , 200 grams 33 

Olive oil, 10 grams 93 

Butter, 10 grams 80 

Black coffee 

Supper. — Broth, 150 grams 16 

Steak, 75 grams 145 

5% vegetable (thrice cooked) , 200 grams 33 

Butter, 10 grams 80 

Tea, plain 

Total 1006 
DIET IK UTHEMIA OB EXCESS OF UBIC ACH) 

Treatment for Uric Acid. Exercise in the open air— 
walk — plenty of fresh air by night as well as by day. 
Breathe deeply. Bathe often; rub the body thoroughly after- 
ward ; the skin should play an important part in elimination 
of uric acid. 

To prevent the formation of an over supply of uric acid, 
be careful of diet. The first thing, do not eat meat. You 
may eat nuts with salt, fresh ripe fruit; best of all, apples 
unpeeled : all cooked fruits, but very little sugar in them ; 
all vegetables that grow above ground (not those that grow 
below ground) ; greens are especially good, with good cider 
vinegar. Bread may be eaten in moderation, graham and 
entire wheat best, good water crackers, cere^s of all kinds; 
eggs should be used sparingly, and in severe cases not at all. 
Fish is good, also shellfish. Xo pastry or sweet cake; milk 
and cheese may be used freely, also buttermilk. Drink no 
coffee, tea, malt or alcoholic liquors. Drink pure water and 
a great deal of it ; sometimes it is well to use lithia tablets. 

1 ** The Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus." Dr. H. O. Moaenthal, BaltiinorB, M4. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 377 

DIET FOB. UBIC ACID GHAYEL ASB ACUTE NEFHBITIS 
MassaclmsettB Geneial Hospital ' 
- Wliwit t'ercal with cream and sugar. 
Bread and butter. 
11 A.M. — Milk — 1 glasB with 1 ounce ot cream and four erackera. 
J P.M. — Eice or tapioca with cream and sugar. 
Toast and butter. 
Ice cream and custard . 
4 r. M. — Milk and cream and crackers, 
e P.M. — Cereal and cream. . 

Mashed potato. 
Apple sauce. 
Later, add eggs and green vegetables. No meat or meat eoup. 

DIET iiT oonr 

Mary Swart^ Rose, Ph.D.a 

Gout ia a disease of the overfed rather than the under- 
nourished. Luxurious living, with its constant temptation to 
overeat, especially of protein foods, and to avoid esercise, 
often brings its penalty in the form of acute or chronic gout. 
Indulgence in alcoholic beverages, especially as an accompani- 
ment to a sumptuous repast, increases a man's chances of ac- 
quiring the disease. Sometimes he suffers for the sins of 
his ancestors, the tendency to the disease being said to be 
transmissible. There are usually disturbances of the diges- 
tive system — gastric indigestion, intestinal putrefaction, and 
constipation — but the most constant symptom is an excess 
of uric acid in the blood, indicating a faulty elimination of 
this substance. Uric acid is formed in the body, but in 
health it is excreted in the urine, so that the amount in cir- 
culation in the blood is very small. In gout this acid ac- 
cumulates in tlie blood and is eliminated with difficulty. The 
following are to be avoided: (1) all foods which disturb di- 
gestion; (2) all foods which tend to induce intestinal putre- 
faction and constipation; (3) all excess of total fuel and of 
protein food; and (4) all foods which by their composition 

1 Dirt nupd >c IhP MuHFtinuttii Orneral HoipUil, BoKoD, Uwi.. laiT. 

ig Ihe Famil).." Tbe Irbcmillui Oo., 



378 



DIET IN DISEASE 



tend to increase the amount of uric acid which the body has 
to get rid of. Uric acid belongs to a group of closely related 
substances called purins. These are found in flesh foods of 
all kinds and in some vegetable foods. The purins other than 
uric acid in these foods are mostly converted into uric acid 
in the body. Hence, if elimination is faulty, they raise the 
amount of uric acid in the blood, a condition considered ven 
unfavorable in cases of gout, though the relation of this suh- 
• stance to the disease is not fully understood. The taking of 
alcohohc beverages also tends to hinder uric acid elimination, 
and these should be excluded in gout. 

The treatment is largely dietetic and the diet should be 
adapted to the needs of the patient by the physician. Some 
information, however, as to the purin content of foods will 
be helpful in carrying out his orders. Milk, eggs, cheese, 
nuts, gelatin, fruits, sugars, breadstufFs made with white flour, 
cornstarch, tapioca farina, rice, potatoes and other root vege- 
tables, most green vegetables (spinach and asparagus ex- 
cepted), and all kinds of fat are practically purin-free. 

Sweetbreads, kidney, liver, sardines, and anchovies are very 
rich in purins and should be entirely avoided. Beef, veal, 
mutton, pork, chicken, turkey, goose and other kinds of game, 
lish with the exception of cod are fairly high in purin content, 
aiul should be sparingly if at all indulged in. Boiling meat 
will r^^nove some of the purins; hence boiled meats are some- 
times allowed where roasted or broiled ones are not. Among 
veg^^table foods, spinach, asparagus, peas, and beans are rich- 
ecit iu purins, though none of these contains as much as meat. 
A vUetarv inchoating the type of food best adapted to use in 
gout i?^ given on the following page. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



379 



A SAT'S SISTAET STTOQESTES POR CHBONIC OOITT (BOSS) i 



Hot water 

8 A. M. : 

Orange 

Kice 

Cream, thick .... 

Sugar 

Hot milk 

Bread 

Butter 

Peaches 

1 p. M.: 

Soft-cooked eggs . 
Baked potato . . . 

Celery 

Bread 

Butter 

Peaches 

Tea, very weak and 
unsweetened . . . 

6 P.M.: 

Milk 

Bread 

Baked apple with 
whipped cream 
Sugar 

Butter 



Measure 



1 cup 

1 large 
% cup 
1 tbsp. 

(scant) 
1 tbsp. 

(scant) 
1^4 cups 
4 slices 
1 tbsp. 
1% medium 



2 eggs 
2 mediimi 

4 slices 
1 tbsp. 
1% mediimi 



Weight 
Oz. 



114 cups 
6 slices 

1 small apple 
1 tbsp. 

(scant) 
1 tbsp. 



9.5 
2.0 
0.5 

0.5 

10.2 
1.3 
0.5 
5.3 



3.4 
6.0 
4.8 
2.6 
0.5 
5.3 



10.2 
3.9 

2.4 
0.5 

0.5 



Protein 
Calories 



7 
5 
1 



38 

28 

1 

3 



54 

22 

6 

28 
1 
3 



38 
42 



Total 
Cal- 
ories 



100 
50 
50 

50 

200 

200 

100 

50 

800 

150 
200 

25 
200 
100 

50 



726 

200 
300 

100 
50 

100 

750 



Total for day 



279 



2275 



1 Mary Swarta Rose, Ph.D.. *' Feeding the Family." The Macmillan Co., 
New York, 1017. 



380 DIET IN DISEASE 

DIET IN ACUTE BHEXTMATISIC 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. While the fever lasts and other symp- 
toms are acute, such as pain and swelling of the joints, the 
patient should be put upon a fluid diet. The majority of 
cases do best at this time with an exclusive milk or bread- 
and-milk diet. Those patients who cannot take milk, how- 
ever, may be allowed soups and broths flavored with vegetable 
extracts, chicken tea, milk toast, barley or oatmeal gruel, 
clam broth. 

Thirst is often a prominent symptom, especially if there 
be much fever, and it is advisable for the patient to drink 
fluid freely to assist in washing out the waste products from 
the body. Lemonade and slightly acid drinks of various 
kinds, such as dilute phosphoric acid or the effervescent min- 
eral waters, are recommended. Boiled milk and Seltzer or 
Vichy may be drunk, or oatmeal or barley water flavored 
with lemon. Alcohol should be avoided while the acute symp- 
toms last, unless the complication of inflammation of the 
endocardium or pericardium enfeeble the heart action, if pro- 
longed and anaemia is considerable, alcohol may be given as 
a tonic two or three times a day in the form of a glass of 
claret or Burgundy (one to two ounces), or diluted whiskey. 

During convalescence the appetite is not usually vigorous, 
and it is not necessary to urge the taking of much food at 
lirst. The diet should be principally farinaceous, but not 
saccliarine. 

Sucli articles may be given as rice (plain or spiced), arrow- 
root, oatmeal, cornmeal, semolina, wheaten grits, panada, 
milk toast, simple unsweetened puddings, wine jelly, blanc- 
mange and malted foods. 

The return to solid diet should be gradual, and for a long 
time the patient should abstain from eating meats as well as 
from pastry and sweets. Fagge states that no meat or fish 
should be allowed for at least a week after subsidence of the 

1 W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 381 

fever and acute symptoms, or, tetter, for a fortnight, and 
many believe that beef tea is harmful. Meat can undoubtedly 
induce a relapse. 

When convalescence becomes established, eggs, iish, oysters, 
and white meat of broiled or roasted chickens may be given, 
and one or two such vegetables aa asparagus, spinach, or 
stewed celery, with a baked apple or fresh fruit, but sweets 
and alcohol should long be withheld. 

The patient should be fed often, having one or two extra 
lunches during the day, for anaemia is apt to prevail for some 
time, and abundant nutriment is required. 

DIET IN CHEONIC SHETTHATISH 

DIET: Soup.— Beef tea, chicken and mutton broth in small qiian- 
titles. 

Fiah. — Haw oysters or clams, white fleshed fresh flsh — broiled or 
boiled. 

Heal. — Sweetbreads, chickm, tripe, broiled fat bacon or boiled 
ham (all sparingly). 

Farinaceous, — Boston brown liread, com, whole wheat bread, corn- 
starch, rice, milk toast, dry toast, graliam bread, granum, butter. 
crackers. 

Vfgetabtes. — All except potatoes and cookt'd tomatoes. 

Desserts. — Plain puddings, rhubarb; junket (all without sugar). 

Liquids. — Milk, cream, buttermilk, malted milk, alkaline waters, 
tea. cocoa (no augar), pure water, plain or with lemon or lime (no 
sugar). 

AVOID. — Red meats, pork, turke:r, goose, duck, real, fried fisli, 
cooked oysters or clams, salted, dried, potted or preserved flsh or 
meats (except ham and bacon). Lobsters, eraba, salmon, eggs, rich 
pies, made dishes, gravies, potatoes, tomatoes, aaparagua, mush- 
rooms, rich puddings, candies, nuts, cheese, coffee, cider, malt liq- 

DIET FOB OXALimU 
HasBaohnaetts deneral Hospital i 

Avoid spinach, rhubarb, cocoa, chocolate, tea, coffee, green peas, pota- 
toes, tomatoes, berries, plums, figs. 
Reduce the carbohydrate foods in diet — as sugar, puddings, sweets, 

Breakfast. — Eggs, toast, milk. 

I Diet iu«d at the MsBBBchuiella GenerBl Hoapiul, Bogtcn, Mbu.. 1917. 



i^ 



382 DIET IN DISEASE 

Dinner. — Meat, fish, green vegetables (except those forbidden), qb- 

ions, carrots, squash, beets. Custard, ice cream. 
Supper, — Cold meat, cereal bread, cooked fruit. 

DIET IK OBESITY 

This is one of the most important features of dietetic 
therapy, and is older and better known than any other, prob- 
ably because of its connection with conditioning athletes for 
all kinds of contests and also from the cosmetic point of 
view, as superfluous flesh generally implies advanced years. 
Unlike many other plans of diet it concerns the nominally 
healthy rather than the sick and invalid. 

The old trainer of athletes knew little or nothing of any 
scientific regimen for reducing adipose tissue. For him re- 
duction of weight was merely a matter of getting rid of 
superfluous water, to be accomplished by sweating, purgation 
and abstinence from fluids. He rejected certain articles of 
diet as "bad for the wind,^* but this is as near as he came 
to specializing in diet. Exercise, without profuse perspira- 
tion, meant nothing to him. The steady grind of a worker 
who burns up so much excess fat daily, yet without any un- 
usual degree of perspiration, is something he took no ac- 
count of. 

Of recent years it has been learned that abstinence, hot 
baths and purgation, are far less efficacious in keeping down 
weight than continuous and vigorous exercise within the fa- 
tigue limit. It is much less a matter of starvation and ehm- 
ination than of a steady oxidation of superfluous tissue by 
graded and varied exercises extending throughout the day. 
But while constant exercise is the chief essential, it is also 
important to curb the appetite for food and drink, and to 
keep the excretory organs active. Otherwise, in the case of 
novices at least, increased exercise will provoke increased 
appetite for food and drink, so that not a few people gain 
flesh while trying to lose it. 

Doubtless the best plan for reducing flesh without suffering 
and violence is to do a great amount of work daily, severe 
enough in character to oxidize much body fat, but without 



DISORDERS OF AUTRITIOX 383 

profuse waste of flnids by sweating, etc. In regard to the 
meals^ these should be small, light and as frequent as desired. 
Nothing should be taken to provc^e thirst Any foodrartide 
whatever whidi is especially ridi in starch, sugar or fat^ along 
with alcoholics, mnst be omitted. Such individuals thrive 
best on toast or biscnit without butter; lean meatS; fish and 
eggs; and vegetables which grow above ground. 

The selection of food differs but little from the diabetic 
regimen, but some carbohydrates are aUowed, while the fatty 
articles, including milk, permissible in diabetes, are to be 
avoided. The patient is not to be stinted in quantity pro- 
Tided he takes the necessary amouiit of exercise. He may 
breakfast freely on eggs, meat and toast, dine on meats and 
salad vegetables, etc. He should take as little fluid as possi- 
ble with his meals, but may quench his thirst between meals. 
By masticating his food thoroughly he materially reduces the 
demand, and does away with eating for the mere sake of eat- 
ing. 

By simple measures of this sort an individual may reduce 

his weight to as great degree as desirable, and the process 
will not be painful, but the reverse. He simply oxidizes and 
otherwise utilizes a little more matter than he takes in, and 
thereby prevents a pathological and unsafe accumulation of 
fat 

DIET 70& BEDVCTIOK OF OBESITY 
Xassachiuetts General Hospital i 

MENU 

Breakfast, — Cup black coffee (with milk but no cream or sugar). 
raw fruit (1 orange, apple, pear, or ^ grapefruit), eggs 
(one or two, boiled or poached), toast (one or two small 
slices, i.e., 10^20 grams, usually without butter). 

11^0 A. M. — Cup bouillon (250 cc.)* skimmed milk or buttermilk, 
or fruit. 

Lufkiheon, — Clear soup, 120 c.c, moderately lean meat or Ash, 100 
grams (or eggs), two varieties green vegetables, 50-100 grams 
each, as spinach, or lettuce, or cabbage or cauliflower, or on- 
ions or lentils, or beets, or carrots, or string beans, or celery, 
or squash. 

1 DWl UMd at the Kaflsachusetts Oeneral Hospital, Boston, Mass., 1917. 



384 



DIET IN DISEASE 



5 P. M. — Raw oysters, moderately lean meat or fish, 100-150 grams, 
two varieties green v^etables, 50-100 grams each (as in 
luncheon), salad (fruit or v^etable) with small quantity of 
French dressing), raw or unsweetened cooked fruit, orange, 
grapefruit, apple, pear, grapes, d^ni-tasse Uack coffee. 

The above menu represents, according to choice, a maxi- 
mum and minimum value, as follows : 



Minimum 
Maximiun 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates Calories 

60 50 70 1000 

100 70 165 1738 



DIET: Meat and Fish. — All lean meats and fish, except as noted 
below, but without rich dressing or sauce. 

Soups. — Thin soups in moderation. 

Eggs in any form except scrambled, fried and omelette. 

Fruits. — All fresh varieties (except bananas), and berries (with- 
out cream and sugar) ; cooked, if with saccharin. 

Vegetables. — String beans, water cress, lettuce, radish, cucumber, 
asparagus, green peas, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, okrt, 
onions, celery, watermelon, tomato, artichoke, spinach, white potato 
in moderation, mushrooms, squash, beets, turnips, carrots, parsnips, 
oyster plant. 

Miscellaneous. — Tea, coffee, skimmed milk, lemonade (with sac- 
charin), ginger ale. Desserts made of gelatin, or Irish moss, if 
with but little sugar; use saccharin or sweetena in place of sugar. 

AVOID (or to be avoided or greatly restricted) : 

Starches. — Bread, crackers, cereals, macaroni, vermicelli spae- 
hetti, sago, tapioca, corn, cornstarch, sweet potatoes, shelled beans, 
dried peas or beans and nuts. 

Sweets. — Sugar, candy, dried fruits, syrups, fruit preserves honev 
marmalade and sugar sauces. 

Meats. — Pork, bacon, goose, sausage, croquettes. 

Fish. — Shad, fresh salmon, eels, sardines, mackerel, bluefish fried 
fishes. 

Fats. — Butter, cream, olive oil, bacon, lard; fat meats and fishes. 

Desserts. — Ices, rich puddings, cake and gingerbread. 



CHAPTER XVI 



DIET IN DISEASES OP THE STOUACH 

ACUTE QASTBITIS 
Elnhom i 

During the first or second day of illnees it is best not to 
give the patient anything substantial to eat. Strained barley 
or rice water, or weak tea may be taken. On the third day, 
as Boon as the appetite reappears, the patient is permitted to 
partake of water soup (bread and hot water) oatmeal or bar- 
ley gruel, rice aoup, and perhaps one soft-cooked egg. Later 
on French bread, butter and oysters may be added to the 
dietary. 

If the improvement is steadily progressing the fourth day 
begin with meat once a day, and thus slowly return to the 
UBual bill 'of fare. 

DIET IH CHRONIC 0A8TEITIS 
E Inborn ' 

The regulation of the diet is of prime importance in the 
treatment. The dietary to be selected will depend on the 
severity of the symptoms. 

At the beginning, therefore, a light diet will be called 
for. The patient should partake of four meals daily. The 
articles of food should be given largely in liquid and semi- 
liquid forms ; that is, milk, kiunyss, matzoon, barley, oat- 
meal, and rice soup prepared in milk; chicken soup with au 
egg beaten up in it ; soft-cooked eggs, mashed potatoes, scraped 
meat, raw, or broiled, toasted bread, and also French white 
bread (not too fresh) ; butter; tea and cocoa. 

"DiiBBse or thi stomach." New Tark. Wil- 




386 DIET IN DISEASE 

The quantity of nourishment for each meal should neither 
be excessively large nor too small. 

My own bill of fare for the first week of the treatment is as 
follows : 

Eight o'clock: Caloric 

Two eggs i^ 

Two ounces of French white bread 15j 

One-half ounce of butter lO; 

One cup of tea (100 gm. of tea, .150 gin. milk) 101 

Sugar 10 gm. (3 iiss.) 40 

Half past ten o'clock: 

Kumyss or matzoon or milk, 250 gm. (J viii. y^) 168 

Crackers, 30 gm. (one otince) lO; 

Butter, 20 gm. (3 v.) .!!*!. 183 

Half past twelve o'clock: 

Two ounces of tenderloin steak, or of white meat of chicken. "• 

Mashed potatoes, or thick rice, 100 gm. (J iii. y^) i27 

White bread, two ounces jjj 

Butter, one-half ounce jq; 

One cup of cocoa, 200 gm. (J vi. %) 101 

Half past three o'clock: 

The same as half past ten 43g 

Half past six o'clock: 

Farina, hominy, or rice boiled in milk, one plateful, 250 gm. 

(5 viii. 1/3) V '440 

Two scrambled eggs 150 

Bread, two ounces ; j5j 

Butter, one-half ounce jo; 



2.863 

The patient having been kept on this diet for a week or 
two, the diet must be gradually changed to one suitable for 
the lighter forms of chronic gastritis. Here the following 
rule will apply: The diet should correspond as nearly as 
possible to the common mode of living. In this way the dis- 
tribution of the meals should be arranged according to the 
customs prevailing in those places in which the patient lives. 

All food derived from the vegetable kingdom should ba 
given in large portions, while the quantity of meat should be 
somewhat limited. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 387 

In order to permit the patient to have a greater variety 
in his food, it is best not to point out a. tev articles he 
should eat, but to mention only those he should avoid. For- 
bid meat with very tough fibers, meat from too old animals 
or too fresh meat (right after slaughtering), meat that con- 
tains too much fat, like pork; forbid sausages, lobster, sal- 
mon, chicken salad, mayonnaise, cucumbers, pickles, cabbage, 
strong alcoholic drinks like liquors. 

It must be impressed upon the patient to masticate the 
food thoroughly, to eat slowly, not to think of business dur- 
ing meals, and to stop eating before the sensation of satiety 
appears. The latter advice is only necessary in persona who 
are accustomed to high living. 

Chronic gastric catarrh is frequently combined with con- 
stipation. The diet can be arranged as to facilitate move- 
ment of the bowels. All foods which contain a large per- 
centage of cellulose (undigested matter) increase the quantity 
of feces, thereby effecting a stronger peristalsis of the larger 
bowel. 

All kind of green vegetables (spinach, asparagus, green 
peas) and rye bread are therefore very suitable. Many or- 
ganic acids possess the property of increasing intestinal peri- 
stalsis. Ahnost all kinds of fruits contain a certain quantity 
of these organic acids, and act like mild aperients. The use 
of cooked pears, stewed or baked apples, stewed prunes, is in 
many instances effective. Ewaid recommends a misture of 
two parts of prunes to one part of dried figs. The taste is 
agreeable, and the cathartic action mild. The custom of 
eating an orange in the morning for its laxative effect is well 
known. To these dietary remedies we may also add the use 
of a glassful of either very cold or warm water, or a glass of 
tnilk in arising, in the fasting condition. 

There are many persons in whom one of these latter means 
produces a good movement of the bowels. 



388 



DIET IN DISEASE 



DIET IN GASTBIC'EYPEBAGIBITT 

The dietetic treatment of gastric hyperacidity is very im- 
portant because it virtually is equivalent to the preventive 
diet of gastric ulcer and to diet after recovery from the lat- 
ter. It should be extremely simple and bland, consisting of 
but few dishes of easily digested solids, together with milk. 
Sweets cannot be used. Carbohydrates are obtained from 
bread and potatoes in relatively small amounts; while the 
protein content is relatively high because this combines with 
the acid of the gastric juice. Vegetables are limited to well 
cooked greens, green peas, etc. All bulky food which leaves 
residues and all irritant substances are naturally out of place 
in a bland diet. 

OUTLINE OF DIET IN EYPEBACIDITT 

Dr. Hax Einhomi 

Calories. 

7 :30 A. M. 2 Eggs 160 

Wheaten bread 60 gma 128 

Butter 20 gma 163 

Milk 250 gms 169 

10:30 A. M. Zoolak or Milk 200 gms 135 

Crackers or Bread 30 gma 77 

Butter 10 gms 81 

1 P. M. Broiled Meat 100 gms 21^ 

Mashed Potatoes 50 gms 63 

Bread 30 gms 77 

Butter 10 gms 81 

Weak tea or Vichy Water 200 gms. 

3:30 P. M. The same as at 10:30 A. M 293 

6:30 P. M. Soup (with Barley or Vermicelli) . .200 gms 100 

Bread (30 gms.) and Butter 10 gms 158 

Meat (broiled or boiled) 100 gms 210 

Potatoes baked 60 gms 60 

Green vegetables (Spinach, green 

peas) 50 gms 80 

Coffee (half milk) 100 gms 34 

10 P. M. Ovsters and Crackers, or Cold Meat 

Sandwich ; 1 glass Beer 260 

Total 2539 

1 Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Medicine, New York Post Oradaate Sdiool 
of Medicine. Physician to Post Graduate and German Hoapital. 1917. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 389 

POODS FEOU WHICH THE DIET IN GASTBIG HTFEKACISITY 

HAT BE CHOSEN 

Dr. Eei1>ert S. Carter i 

DIET: Raw oysUrs: 

Boups. — Cream or pur^e (except tomato). 

Fiah. — Fresh cod, halibut, baea, boiled with cream sauce or broiled. 

Meat. — Beef well done (without griatlo, fat, or graTy), chicken, 
turkey, guinea hen, lamb (without fat), once daily. 

Vegetables. — AH soft-boiled green vegetables, except cabbage, cauli- 
flower, bruaaela aprouta, or turnipa. Baked white potato may be used 
moderately. Rice or macaroni. 

Cheese.— Any mild variety, but better without this at flrst. 

DeaaeTts. — Cream and egg deaaerta of all aorta, e. g., blanc-mange. 
Bavarian cream, floating island, cup cuaterd, junket, eoft rice or 
bread puddings. Gelatin deaaerta made with little flavoring. Very 
little sugar used in all desaerts. Fruit, none, except when constipa- 
tion ia a marked feature, then stewed soft fruits may be taken in 
good amount, but muat be cooked witb very little augar and are 
best taken with or after a meal, never before. Cream may uaually 
be freely uaed. 

Bread. — Toaat, stale bread, roll. (Freah butter or aalt butter 
freshened by working it over in freati water.) 

Drinks. — Weak tea, cocoa, water, and milk. 

Cereals. — Fine-grained varieties, well cooked. 

Egga. — In all forma except fried. 

AVOID. — All sour, spiced, or peppery fooda, condiments, salt foods, 
chow-chow, etc. Sweets, fried fooda. 

Very hot or very cold food or drinks. 

Rough bard substances, such as aeeda, akins of fruit or vegetables, 
corn, uncooked vegetablea. 

Coffee, winea, litjuors, beer. 

Hot breada, pies, cakes, sj'rups, etc. 

UXCEB OF THE STOMACH 
Dr. Uaz Einhom i 

The diet consists of liquids — milk, milk with strained 
barley, or oatmeal, or rice water; plain water, weak tea and 
peptone (one teaspoon to a cup of water). Debove and 
Hemond have suggested the addition of lactose and of meat 
powder to the milk, in order to make the diet richer in 
nutritive substances. 

1 Dr. Harbtrt 8. Cancr, ■■ Diet Lists of ths Preibyleriin HoepitBl," W. B. 
8»UBiier« Co., Philsdelphio. Pa„ 1917. 

""' ■ Elntaorn, iLO.: ■■ DliBiaea ri the SWmMli." Kew York. WillUm 




390 



DIET IN DISEASE 



As a rule, we employ the above-named additions, which 
fulfill the same purposes, besides varying the monotonous bill 
of fare. 

First week. During the first week we give the patient half 
a cup (about 100^150 c.c.) of either, every hour. Every- 
thing the patient takes must be neither cold nor very warm, 
and should be taken slowly (sipping, or with a spoon) . 

Second week. During the second week we order tiie same 
kind of food, with this difference, that he is nourished every 
two hours, and gets a cupful or a cupful and a half (200 to 
300 c.c.) at a time. 

Occasionally we now allow the patient one raw egg beaten 
up in the milk, once or twice a day. In the beginning of the 
third week we feed the patient eveiy three hours; he is al- 
lowed barley, farina, and rice (well cooked) in milk, soft- 
cooked eggs, crackers softened in milk, in addition to his 
previous foods; in the third day of the third week we begin 
to give the patient meat, first raw, well scraped, then broiled. 

Thereafter we go over to the ordinary daily diet, exclud- 
ing heavy salads, pastry, raw fruit and the like. 

In the following table I give an outline of diet which I 
ordinarily prescribe in this affection: 

OUTLim: OF DIET IN GASTBIC TTLCE& 
Dr. Max Einhom 

FntST Thbee Days 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M. : milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

H " milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

\) ** milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) lOi 

10 " milk and strained barley water (aa, 150 C.C.) 80 

1 1 " milk, 150 C.C ' * ' * loi 

li! " milk, 150 C.C 101 

I p. M.: iKUiillon either alone or with the addition of one to 
two teaspoonfuls of a peptone preparation 150 

(^C ;.... 30 

•J '* milk 101 

:i " milk ' * * 101 

4 " milk 101 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 391 

Number of 
Calories. 

5 P. M. : milk with strained barley or oatmeal 80 

6, 7, 8, 9, p. M.: milk, 160 C.C 404 

1402 

FOUBTH TO THE TENTH DaY 

7 A. M.: milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

9 " milk, 300 C. C. (ten ounces) 202 

11 " milk with barley, rice, or oatmeal water, 300 C.C. . . 160 
1 p. M. : one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, and one egg beaten 

up in it 80 

3 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

5 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

7 " milk with barley water, 300 C.C. • 160 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

1410 

Eleventh to the Foubteenth Day 

7 A. M. : milk, 300 C.C 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers softened (one ounce) 100 

11 " milk with barley water, 300 C.C. 160 

1 P.M.: one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, one egg, and two 

crackers 180 

3 " milk, 300 C.C, and one egg 282 

6 " milk, 300 C.C, 202 

and two crackers 100 

7 " milk, with barley water 160 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



1790 



Foubteenth to the Seventeenth Day 

7 A. M.: milk, 300 C.C 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers (one ounce) 100 

11 " milk with barley, 300 C.C 342 

1 p. M. : scraped meat, 50 gm 60 

two crackers, one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 100 

3 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

5 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

one egg ( soft boiled ) 80 

two crackers 100 



392 DIET IN DISEASE 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 P. M.: milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

2134 
Seventeenth to Twenty-Fourth Day 

7 A. M. : two eggs ( soft boiled) 160 

butter, 10 gm 81 

toasted bread, 60 gm 130 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

10 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

crackers, 60 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

1 r. M. : lamb chops (broiled), 60 C.C 60 

mashed potatoes, 60 gm 44 

toasted bread, 60 gm 130 

butter, 10 gm.; one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 81 

4 " the same as at 10 a. m 530 

6:30 " milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



2820 

In cases of ulcer of the stomach presenting a more severe 
type — violent pains, frequent vomiting, inability to take 
food on account of the pains — or after haBmatemesis, I 
usually have the patient abstain from any food whatever, 
given by the mouth, for a period of five days. The patient 
is then fed by the rectum. This is done in the following way: 
early each morning the patient receives a large enema of 
about a quart of lukewarm water, in which a teaspoonful of 
common tablesalt has been dissolved as a cleansing' enema. 
About an hour after the patient has emptied the injected 
water the first nourishing enema is given; this may consist 
either of a glassful of milk (about 200 c.c), in which a raw 
egg has been well beaten and a pinch of salt added, or of « 
cupful of water in which a tablespoon of a good peptone 
preparation has been dissolved. The temperature of either 
must be about 100° F. Such a nourishing enema is given 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 393 

three or four times a day. The quantity of the feeding enema 
la 200-350 c.c, and it is slowly injected by meaoB of a foun- 
tain syringe and a soft-rubber rectal tube. The patient may 
frequently wash his mouth with cold water, and is allowed 
from time to time to keep a small piece of chopped ice in 
his mouth, and to swallow the melted water. The five days 
being over, the mode of diet is the same as described above 
for the ordinary form of ulcer. 

BIET FOR ACTIVE ITXCEK OF THE STOUACH OB DVODEITUM 

Uassachasetts General Hospital i 

for tico daya — 2 oz. milk with ono powdered craeker (3^2 in. 
square). Given every two boura. 

The neat ten days — 8 oz. milk, 4 eraekera, 2 to 4 oz. sugar. Given 
every two hours, 

Tfto neaJt month — In eight feedings, every two hours — {1) Indian 
meal mush with cream and salt (1 helping). (2) Eight 
ounces of milk with crackers and sugar. (3) Potato Fur^e, 
(4) Milk and whites of two egga. (5) Soft Custard (1 serv- 
ing)- *0) Chocolate with cream (1 cup). (7) Pea Puree. 
(B) Milk, crackers and sugar. 

The next four months — ^In six feedings a day. Add tapioca, bailed 
rice, macaroni, mashed potatoes, soft toast with butter, soft 
boiled eggs, wheat germ, shredded wheat. 

THE LENHAB.TZ DIET 

The " Lenhartz diet " begins with 100 c.c. milk and one 
egg daily, in teaspoonful doses, gradually increasing until 
at the end of four weeks a liberal mixed diet is allowed, al- 
ways avoiding coarse vegetables and irritating substances. 

The gradual increase of food appears in the accompanying 
scale. 

In preparing the eggs they are beaten very light, without 
salt, a small amount of sugar frequently added, to bowl kept 
in a pan of cracked ice. At first the milk is given with 
shaved ice. Some of the milk, eggs, and sugar are made into 
custard on the tenth day. The heef is scraped and weighed 
after cooking; occasionally hme water has to be added to 
tlie milk, and, if large curds form, the milk is diluted with 

nchtuetta Gensra.! Hoapitil, BoatOD, Uui.. lOlT. 




394 



DIET IN DI8BASB 



~ s^ * * 

i r : : "^ 



• 

8 

• 



« 






S si Sg -. w 1? 

5i O %» <~. •_'*i*' ^ 0« ft« 






g 



- £ f ^ o S- S 

'^^ '^ •^ s 



o 
o 



§ o _ 

i: "® oo § 



? ** I ^ * 8 a 7 '^ 



_-^- * S g 2 o .^ 6 5 g 






r •: J. « «• o 



■«■» 






mil I a i ill 






^ - S ^ 1 

■J? i ^ > ^ > > >tf k- m '•'' '*'* v^ s 

^ m&&h&i II jf If ii ;2 : 

V "•••::""•; ^ ^ ^ % £ 
"^ ' *• *♦ ^ o « j: • . 



•^ s •* ^ 

■^ •-• z 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 



395 



barley water. Great care is exercised in the transition stages 
from liquids to semi-solids and finally to full diet. 



Breakfast 



11 A.M.: 
Dinner: 



4 p. M. : 
Supper: 



CONVALESCENT GASTBIC DIET NO. 1 
Dr. T. C. Janeway i 

Boiled milk with cocoa or coffee. 

Any cereal, strained, with cream. 

Soft toast, buttered. 

Glass of milk. 

Pur^e of potatoes, peas, or beans with toast soaked in it, 

or boiled rice, with milk or cream. 
Junket or custard, or jelly or tapioca pudding. 
Glass of milk with beaten egg in it. 
2 soft-boiled eggs. 
Soft toast. 
Glass of milk. 



9:30 P. M.: Glass of milk, with beaten egg in it. 



Breakfast : 



11 A.M.: 
Lunch : 



CONVALESCENT GASTBIC DIET NO. 2 

Dr. T. C. Janeway i 

Boiled milk, with a little coffee or cocoa. 
Any cereal, strained, with cream. 
Dry toast, buttered. 

Glass of malted milk. 

2 soft-boiled or scrambled eggs, or fresh boiled fish in 
place of eggs. 

A little broiled bacon (eating the fat and not the lean). 

Toast and milk. 

Pur6e of potatoes, rice, barley, peas, asparagus, celery, 
or beans. 

Buttered toast. 

Rare beefsteak broiled, or lamb chop broiled, roast beef 
or lamb. 

Roast or broiled chicken or minced chicken, with well- 
cooked rice or a well-baked potato with butter. 

Junket or custard, jelly or tapioca pudding. 
10:30 P.M.: Glass of milk with lime-water. 



Dinner: 



1 Dr. Theodore 0. Janeway, " Diet Lists of the Presbyterian Hospital." 1917. 



CHJLPTER Xm 



li i^^^r-i ^umual uttouont' das^ iMt recognize such a dis- 
^?«si: j^ r-c^^nsaa;. Zx s iiiMii luirtj of local and general 
f',v.,J-:i.as OiiBSCanL 3? iDint <ar &essi idisonleivd. It may be 
t.v ^nuu Tw same iriffinii^ iaujpierfocT for one or more of 
:>,: . i;4S^?< ic 1jw%^ IT :^«2£^b£d wnzight. Specialists base 
;u/^ ^ii^i*- lit :a]tf :35saife rf ttstHmeakw so that the diet in 
i C'^:xi ^:i»t >%5eiai»? :ni£^tTiniIlBaK4. If a person with ordi- 
:;i;'^ STincwanS' ii ^iciimr EmS^iestMMi is to be dieted and 
:u ,^u^ ic r.hj iifecomi 5? ii« known, the regimen for 
^'!t> iuu ^p^cri:3> "voL £n?*\ffiv. Bat if in addition to in- 
;-ur>;M:n :ii;«^ ^ iiascsnil rrroua&ilirr of the stomach the 
;u' v.. lis. .'io^^ id Hik'is: iflfiJtLT ficsiestied articles of solid food, 
i;!v: UA^;^^^^' K ^ai:>^'o£ lijc Bftqittid food. In other words, 
t\ ^ ;:i,»v»i iw i ..voiTtJi^'^fisit firam some scTere acute dis- 



s i:>fh^: ftv :.i5ctth Tv? piDftaMrtbe a diet for constipation 
is : 5> • r ; s^^^c^^it^ ire ::r -ise same reason, namelv, con- 
N : uu vJt :v ^i:c: .:j: ::^J^c :jk iii^ftfcje, bat a symptom or r^ult of 
liii r j>:><ajjON A> i jKC^-nt rtdle, however, a certain diet is 
ti^ V :r V^ vczrrjL.v*,' ::r xry ktchi of constipation. Bv the 
ti \i -vc-^jrx ^v^ .;:,>s;jul> ^--^lirL :i t&layed action of the bowel? 
Nv: \> ;t 7dr>^-^'. ^-^'vr.^e^ c: :be muscles of the intestines, or 
•; if Ks*u '^\l w-dvr^*^ 5.u^ re too concentrated a form of 
»v\i 'Si> Mvtt; v^r rv> i <»:\vr.::irT life. In a certain percentage 
H>:; ^acjak-^ :N!.> v>elivi\l *:c:v:»:i 0: the bowels is due to temporanr 

5« 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 397 

spasm of the intestinal muscle and this may even occur in 
association with weakness of the muscle, as is seen in hysteri- 
cal women. There is finally delayed bowel action in a great 
number and variety of diseases. 

The resources employed in treating the diseases which 
cause constipation include many plana beside diet, yet the 
latter is indispensable. 

A mixed diet is very necessary, for purely animal food 
products, as meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, etc., conduce to 
constipation because absorption of such foods is so nearly 
complete that not enough residue remains in the intestines to 
stimulate peristalsis. On the other hand, a diet of vegetables, 
involving a large indigestible residue, causes large fecal mo- 
tions, but these are not promptly expelled unless the intestine 
is healthy. Much extra work ia thrown upon the intestine 
when a vegetarian diet is used exclusively; and as a result 
of such excessive work the intestine may become in time weak- 
ened. 

Constipation from whatever cause and of whatever nature 
may be, when suiBciently pronounced, sufficient to render a 
healthy man or woman sick. Digestion becomes impaired, 
appetite lost. This fact alone teaches us that in dieting a 
constipated subject we often have to deal with a sick in- 
dividual. Hence the only course to pursue is to cure the con- 
dition which causes the constipation as soon as possible. For 
mere sluggish action of the bowels, not amounting to disease, 
many popular dietetic remedies are employed. 

Of household dietetic procedures for securing daily evacua- 
tions, the most common is the drinking of cold water on ris- 
ing — one, two or more glasses. To this a little common salt 
may be added. The use of fruit at or before breakfast often 
causes an evacuation during the day. This is true especially 
of . apples, pears, oranges, etc. Buttermilk is also largely 
used for this purpose. The vegetable acids with the large 
amount of indigestible residue make certain fruits valuable 
na laxatives, although those berries which contain tannin as 
blackberries may tend to constipate. Dried fruits, such as 



398 DIET IN DISEASE 

figs and prunes are especially useful. The eflBcacy of sweet 
cider seems to illustrate again the laxative power of vegetable 
acids. Very sweet substances in large amounts, chiefly 
honey and molasses, are notably laxative. Oatmeal, among 
the cereal foods, is noted for its laxative powers. Oils and 
fats are laxative to many people. A word of caution must 
here be inserted. Many of these substances occasionally be- 
have as violent purgatives, especially in individuals who al- 
ternate between constipation and diarrhea. The severe diar- 
rhea set up at times by sweet cider, molasses and other rela- 
tively inert substances should teach us caution in giving such 
articles to patients. 

No more important hygienic regimen can be adopted than the fol- 
lowing: 1. Eat fruit daily (experiment and find what fruit seems 
to agree). 2. Three-quarters of an hour before breakfast drink 
one glass of hot or cold water and exercise ten minutes in room 
before open window or take a brisk walk. Drink at least three 
pints of water daily. If needed take one or two tablespoons of raw 
bran daily. 

DIET IN CONSTIPATION 

HassachiLsetts General Hospital i 

Plan diet in following manner, eating the usual quantity of 
foods presented and using the variety allowed in list : 

Breakfast. — Cereal with cream and sugar — preferably corn meal, 

or rye and oats. 
Two soft boiled or scrambled eggs. 
Bread — Preferably black bread or pumpernickel, or 

rye bread, with much butter. 
Fruit — Apples or grapes. 
Dinner. — Soup — preferably vegetable soup. 
Fish or meat, or both, with salad. 

Vegetables — at least two kinds, preferably spinach, cab- 
bage, beets, turnips, potatoes, beans or peas if desired. 
Dessert of rice or bread pudding or custard — including 
daily a saucer of prunes or saucer of tamarinds. 
Supper, — Bread and Butter. 
Cocoa. 

Cold meat and vegetable salad. 

Dessert of stewed fruit — apples or pears or figs. If neces- 
sary, include a saucer of prunes or plums (preserved). 

1 Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass., 1917. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 399 

Drink at least three pints of water daily. 
Omit all drugs for constipntion. 
Agar Agar Powder — tablespoonful twice daily. 
DIET IS DIABEEEA 

The term diarrhea, like dyspepsia and constipation, repre- 
senfe only a sjinptom or result of various diseaaes. While 
this affection cannot he cured by a dietetic plan alone, at- 
tention to diet is very important. It consists as much in 
avoiding laxative articles as in using constipating articles 
which are also bland and easily digested. Food nearly all of 
which may be absorbed naturally antagonizes diarrhea from 
any cause. The commonest articles used in this class are 
flour porridge, cooied white of eggs, boiled milk, toasted 
crackers, zwieback, rice, chocolate. Meat should he of the 
most tender and digestible nature, as sweetbreads, tongue, 
tenderloin of beef, etc. Dried beef powder may be mixed 
with 6 per cent, tannic acid. Articles which naturally con- 
tain the latter are useful if digestible. Acorn coffee is recom- 
mended by some. 

In a daily menu compiled by Ewald the following articles 
enter: Soft eggs, milk, toasted bread, zwieback, scraped 
beef, breast of chicken, the most digestible kinds of iish, 
soups and broths (to the latter may be added Sanatogen and 
other semi -proprietary condensed protein foods). Articles 
used in diet list for constipation must he avoided. 
DIET IK DTSEHTEBT 
Or. Thompson i 

During an attack of acute dysentery the patient should be 
kept absolutely quiet in bed, and should not be allowed to 
rise for the movement of the bowels, making use of a bed- 
pan instead. Throughout the active stage the diet must be 
strictly confined to easily digestible food, and in most cases it 
is wisest to give only predigeated fluid articles. Peptonised 
or pancreatinised milk, or boiled milk, pressed-meat juice, 
whey, or raw egg albumin beaten with sherry and flavored 

iW, niliDBD Thompson, M.D.: " Prncticil Dietetiia." New York. D. 
ApplBton Ji Oo. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 401 

rest in bed or on the lounge. In other eases rare steak or 
roast beef or chicken and egg albumin may be allowed, with 
dry toasted, zwieback, or crackers. The milk and meat diet 
may be advantageously combined. 

In Osier's opinion, if there is much ulceration of the colon^ 
meat is not well borne, and it is better to keep the patient 
upon a diet which will give but little residue, such as boiled 
or peptonised milk. 

The stools must be examined every day or two to ascertain 
the presence of undigested fragments of milk curds or meats,, 
oil globules, mucus, blood, etc. If improvement does not 
occur, the patient may be put upon a diet of egg albumin or 
Sanatogen with beef juice, or some of the preparations of beef 
meal or peptonoids, with pancreatinised milk. Eeturn to- 
solid diet must be very gradual, and may be conducted on 
the lines directed for convalescence from typhoid fever. 

ENTEBIC DIET 

Dr. Vickeryi 

Whey, 7 ounces. Barley water, 8 ounces. Beef juice, 3 ounces^ 
Buttermilk, 6 ounces. Gruel, IG ounces. Junket, 8 ounces. 

SPECIAL ENTEBIC DIET 
Dr. Cutler 2 



Skimmed Milk 


8 


oz. 


at 7 A. M 


Mellins' Food 


8 


it 


" 9 ** 


Skimmed Milk 


8 


« 


"11 " 


Eggs and Milk 


8 


« 


" 1 P.M. 


Beef juice 


3 


" with 




Barley water 


3 


a 


" 3 " 


Skimmed Milk 


6 


" with 




Tea 


i 


(( 


<€ 5 <« 


Chicken Broth 


4 


" with 




Barley Water 


3 


« 


« *r (( 


Buttermilk 


8 


« 


€€ 9 €i 


Skimmed Milk 


8 
8 


(t 


" 11 " 


Beef Tea 


" 1 A.M. 


Skimmed Milk 


8 


a 


" 3 " 


Albumin Water 


8 


(( 


« 6 " 



1 Dr. Vickery : " Diet used at the Massachosetts General Hospital, Boston/*" 
1917. 

S SIbrldfe G. Cutler, M.D. : " Diet used at the Massachuaetts General Hof- 
ViM, Bofton.'* 



400 DIET IN DISEASE 

with nutmeg are recommended. Many patients do b( 
a diet of raw scraped beef or meat balls. 

In cases of acute dysentery, and especially in the 
form, the loss of strength, anaemia, and emaciation 
very rapidly, and the strength must be supported by 
tion, for which brandy is preferable to whiskey. 

During convalescence the diet must be very cauti( 
creased, and confined to food which is promptly a 
pletely digested, leaving but little residue. For this 
animal food should be chiefly eaten, while fish, ten 
steak, roast beef, boiled or broiled chicken, eggs, 
blanc-mange, dry toast, junket, well-boiled rice, or w 
may be given. All fruits and vegetables must be 4 
and butter and cream should be taken sparingly. 

If the the disease occurs in infancy, the child, if 
should be fed at the breast. Otherwise all milk a 
given should be pasteurized. Beef tea and mutt 
may be allowed in moderation, and special care s 
observed not to overfeed. 

DIET FOR ULCERATIVE COLITIS AND DYSENT£ 
(Low Fat and Low Carbohydrate Diet) 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 

Breakfast. — One large portion lean meat. 

Two thick slices of toast without butter. 
Noon. — Meat or fish. 

Two slices of toast. 

One potato or macaroni. 
Night. — Meat. 

Two slices toast. 

Custard or tapioca. 
Later, add wheat or corn cereals, tapioca, rice, mild in m 

DIET IN CHRONIC DYSENTERY 
Dr. Thompson 2 

Chronic dysentery is often best treated by an 
milk diet of from two and a half to three quarts a < 

1 Diet used at the MaBsachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mast. 

2 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : " Practical Dietetics." New 
Appleton is Co. 



¥.AV¥Jk 



UZSEli^'ii'^' 



.01 




luiiiiUB^ In Other i:d&e6 litLt* >aaiv ■'* 

ancL es^ aibnmin uiav .t^* ai)ustv.\i, uttik 

or cracicEESk Thti uiiik ana wtcuL -lici 

if there is nmch uioeraiiou o. - •<«.- x>-1«.mi, 

and. it is oercer lo :\L*tj.» 'i* ..iJiiu 

give bur liiiie i*«tiuut*, >ul.i ..^ .=..v\l 

Bwcagche esaananEd everr aay oi- -.v^* .-< <^l< ^^.h-i 

MXxmtJDST be put npon a diet «»l » .,i^ .. m.;.,.. 
nth b^eslf foice. or some oi rite :'i-rL»ai«i."..^ "i. 
ommHiiB. with Doncreauuisi^'d -mh:;. 
LTBrt^ be ▼eiT' znidnai. and Mtav -o .i.t.a vi. i 
for conTaiescence i t\uu . \ j m n.» lu ■ \ i . . 



3« .. 4 1 4 I 






.•I IK. V 



t .IK. > 



MMUk 
! F-.«»«t 
-4 MOfe 


'^ or. 


!i» IcGO? 


■1 ■• 

6 ■• 'Villi 

« ■ ■ 




4 ■• 'vuh 

> 

« - _ 

> 


ift ^filk 


* mm 



I , 



V. H. 



■jLt :ntf ''•lii»»4«iauM:»i* v:»..v';al Utf*^iiul, B«Mtoii,' 
f> vfn ' ' I'^tvi t«««i ^« *w >iA»»>>^ kU>»c(i* vinuiiiral 



402 DIET IN DISEASE 

Uaini) ENTEBIC DIET 
Dr. Cutler 2 

Skimmed Milk 8 oz. 4 times every 24 hours. 

Skimmed Milk 6 " with 

Tea or Coffee 2 " 



Beef Tea 8 " 1 " 

Chicken broth 3 " with 

Barley Water 3 " 1 " 

Mellins' Food 8 " 1 " 

Albumin Water 8 " 1 " 

Beef juice 3 " with 



Barley Water 3 " 1 

Buttermilk 8 " 1 



« 



« 
« 

It 

€€ 



One soft boiled egg daily if desired or raw in milk. 
SCHMIDT'S INTESTINAL TEST DIET 

This is not necessarily a series of test meals^ such as are 
employed for diagnosis in diseases of the stomach, for it may 
be used as a steady regimen, the test of the efficacy of which 
is shown by the character of the stools, which should consist 
in health only of the indigestible residue of the food. It is 
adapted to the healthy, as well as to those with intestinal dis- 
orders. All foods with considerable amounts of indigestible 
residue are forbidden, but no attempt is made to eliminate 
all residues, for such a step would favor the occurrence of 
constipation. The diet should be properly balanced and con- 
tain sufficient calories for the daily requirement. 

The diet as advocated by Schmidt has been in use in a 
slightly modified form at the Massachusetts General Hos- 
pital. Instead of oatmeal gruel, corn meal mush is used: 
while mashed potatoes are substituted for potato broth. In 
subjects with intestinal affections, the failure to digest some 
or more of the principal classes of foods, as shown by studt 
of the feces, leads to a change in diet. Many normally healthv 
subjects may benefit by such a diet, which may be rendered 
less monotonous by introducing alternate dishes. 



L 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 403 

TEST DIET FOR STUDTING THE FTJKCTIOIt OF THE 

AUMEHTART TRACT 

Has BBcbv setts General Hospital i 

Morning. — Zwiebaok 50 gma. 
Milk 200 C.C. 

3 tablespoon fuls of Indian meal muBh made with 10 grms. 
butter and 200 grms. milk. 
II A. M.— Milk 1 pint. 
Soon. — Hamburg Steak, 125 grms. 

On toast with 20 grma. butter. 
Mashed potatoes with 10 grms, butter. 
i P. K.— Milk 1 pint. 
Supper, — Same ae breakfast. 

Value of Diet, Atpbokimately 
Protein, 105, Fat 125, Carbohydrates 220, Calories 2500. 

DIET FOR IHTESTINAX PTTTRErACTION 
As putrefaction ia limited chiefly to animal proteins, an 
antiputrefactive diet is a restricted vegetarian diet in which 
milk, cheese and eggs are allowed in small quantities, but 
no meats. The patient Uvea principally upon bread, potatoes, 
cereals, fruits, and green vegetables. Such a diet agrees 
closely with those in use for Bright'a disease, high blood 
pressure, the self poisoning of pregnancy, and in fact, in any 
condition supposed to be caused or aggravated by excess of 
animal protein. 

DIET FOE IHTESTIKAX FUTBEFACTIOH 
Dr. Haz Einhom 2 
Brtakjast. — Fruit : Apple, haiiana, pear, grapefruit, orange. 

Cereal: Oatmeal, farina, shredded wheat: with milk or 

Bread and Butter. 
Tea. 
Dinner. — Soup; Vegetable eoup. 

Egga: (2) Soft boiled, coddled or scrambled. 

Potatoes, Rico or Spaghetti. 

Oreen Vegetables: String beans, cauliflower. 

Baked Apple. 

Coffee with milk. 

1 Diet used St the Ksunchuietls OenerBl Hoapltal, BoBtoii, Muu.. 1»1T. 

2 Dr. Max EiDbDrn, PraFeHac of Medicine. New Yotic Post Oradnite SehixA 
at Uedicbs. Pbjiiidau lo Pott Ornduate and German Hospiul, 10IT, 



404 DIET IN DISEASE 

Supper, — Cereal: Oatmeal, farina, shredded wheat: with milk or 
cream or butter. 
Cheese, 
Stewed Fruit, 
Bread and Butter, Bice and Milk. 

DIET IN APPENDICITIS 
Dr. Thompson 1 

Dietetic Treatment. The dietetic treatment of appendici- 
tis, which has not yet passed into the surgeon's han^^ should 
consist in giving only such foods as will be thoroughly ab- 
sorbed, leaving as little residue as possible to irritate the lower 
bowel and excite peristalsis. 

Until the outcome of the attack is decided it is best to put 
the patient upon a fluid diet, consisting chiefly of nutritiye 
broths. Beaten eggs may be allowed, and a moderate quan- 
tity of pancreatinised milk, whey, or buttermilk. Cocoa may 
be given, and strained gruels of rice and barley. 

In recurrent cases the patient should be cautioned to eat 
moderately and avoid all coarse or hard food, such as grits, 
coarse oatmeal, tough meats, fibrous vegetables, the skin of 
fruits or potatoes — in short, everything likely to overload 
the intestine with accumulated waste. 

The operative cases should have the diet recommended 
after laparotomy. Usually the digestive organs require al- 
most absolute rest for twenty-four ho.urs after the operation, 
and hot water may be sipped. No food at all should be given 
for fully six hours before operation. 

iW. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 




DIET IH DISEASES OF THE GEHITO-URINABY SYSTEM 

ACUTE BEIQHT'S DISEASE 

In dieting a patient Buffering from Bcufe Brighfa disi 
one fact to be kept prominently in mind ia the difficulty that 
the system has in getting rid oi its waste material — espe- 
cially of its nitrogenous waste. Another point is that the 
diet should be such as to assist in carrying off those inflam- 
matory products by which we know that the tubules of the 
kidneys are to a greater or less extent blocked. The amount 
of nitrogenous elements in foods must be kept down, and aid 
must be given for washing out the products of inflammation 
from tlie uriniferoua tubules. 

Water ia the best diuretic. — Hot water and hot diluent 
drinks. 

Diluted milk is the food that answers best, and skimmed 
milk has a high reputation as a diuretic. Buttermilk, whey 
and kumyss are useful. 

From two to three pints of mOk, well diluted, given in the 
twenty-four hours, will in most cases be sufficient at first, 
but if the disease be protracted and tends to become chronic, 
a more liberal allowance of liquid food must bo ordered, and 
broths may be added to the dietary. Wlien milk alone is 
given it should be given in divided quantities at stated in- 
tervals — half a pint every three or four hours, diluted with 
half as much hot water or effervescing water. 

Between supplies of milk drink freely of diluent drinks. 

Diluent Drinles. Plain water, toast water, barley water, 
cream of tartar and lemon drinks, and the acid drinks are all 
useful diluents. 

Give between meals and drink slowly. 



406 



DIET IN DISEASE 

DIET IN CHEONIC BEIOHT'S DISEASE 



The kidneys are great agents in the work of excreting ni- 
trogenous waste, and slight inability to perform functioni 
prevent elimination of nitrogenous waste. 

As soon as we have evidence sufficient to prove that the 
kidneys are laboring and are burdened by their work, we must 
endeavor to remove the strain by regulating the diet ; and one 
clear indication is to limit the supplies of nitrogenous foods. 

Large amounts of animal food and the use of alcohol must 
be stopped. 

In many cases the effect of feeding the patient for sii 
weeks, or even two or three months, upon an exclusive milk 
diet, is remarkably gratifying. The quantity of milk to be 
prescribed for an exclusive milk diet in Bright's disease must 
depend on the age and size of the patient, as well as upon 
his ability to take exercise and use up force in muscular en- 
ergy. If the patient is invalided so as to be confined to his 
room or the house, from five to seven pints of milk daily are 
quite sufficient. If the patient loses weight on a milk diet, 
although it otherwise agrees with him, it may be well to add 
farinaceous food in the shape of rice or bread. In the worst 
cases it is desirable to give the milk at brief intervals, 
in quantities of six ounces, once an hour during the day- 
time, with an extra tumblerful at night, and on awakening 
in the morning. 

The quantity of milk necessary to support life for any 
length of time and maintain good nutrition, especiallv if 
the patient is exercising at all, is considerable, and he must 
take from fourteen to eighteen, or even twenty-two six-ounce 
tumblerfuls of milk in the twenty-four hours. 

It is usually impossible to conunence at this rate without 
producing gastric disturbances from souring of the milk in 
the stomach, and possibly diarrhoea. The latter symptom 
is an almost certain indication that the milk is being im- 
perfectly digested, and a temporary reduction in its quantity 
is advised. 



6ENIT0-URINAEY SYSTEM 407 ' 

In very advanced cases ■when the ability of the kidneys to 
excrete protein has passed a certain stage a pure milk diet 
is out of the question, since it contains far too much protein. 
See Diet lists. 

As the patient improves the milk diet may be given np, 
but it should never be too suddenly abandoned In adopting 
any other diet it is a good rule never to let the nitrogenous 
food bear a greater proportion to the non-nitrogenous than 
one to four. 

When, after a milk diet, the change is to he made to a more 
liberal menu, the hours of taking the milk may be reduced 
in frequency, and some of the milk may be replaced by the 
more hearty food. 

^*-i)IET: Soap. — Vegetable or fish Houp, brotha with rice or barley. 

Fiak. — Raw oystera or clams, frcHh. fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Eat sparingi;, chicken, game, fat bacon, fat ham. 

Farinaceous. — Stale bread, whole wheat bread, toast, milk toast, 
biscuits, macaroni, rice, cereals of alt kinds. 

Vegttahtes. — Onion, cauliflower, mashed potatoeE, mueihroomB, let- 
tuce, watercresB, Bpiiiach, celery, cabbage. 

Deiterls. — Ripe raw fruits, stewed fruits, rice, tapioca, bread and 
milk puddings, junkets, cocoa. 

Liquids. — Toast water, weak tea, pure water, peptonised milk, 
malted milk, freah buttermilk, milk with hot water equal parts, 
whey, unfermented grape juice. 

AVOID. — Fried fish, corned beef, tnshea, atews, pork, veal, heavy 
bread, batter cakes, lamb, mutton, beef, gravies, beans, peas, malt 
or spirituous liquors, tobacco, coffee, ice cream, cake, pastry. 

STANDABD FABENCHTHATOITS ITEFHSITIS DIET 

AU Food to be Salt Fiee 

Wew Tork Fost Graduate Hospital ' 

7 A.u, Cocoa 180 c.c. (6 oz.) 

Bread or Toast 30 g. 

Butter 15 g. 

Cereal 100 g, 

10 A, M. Cocoa 180 c.c. (8 oi.) 

Matzoths 1 

Butter 10 g. 



I 1 DiM owd Bt 



e New York Poit QridnikW Ho»pilii1. New York City, 1B17. 



408 



DIET IN DISEASE 



12 M. Cream of Vegetable Soup 240 c.c. (8 oz.) f 

Baked Potato or Boiled Rice 130 g*. (Approximate) 

Bread or Toast 30 g*. 

Butter 20 g. 

3 P. M. Cocoa 180 c.c. 

Matzoths 1 

Butter 10 g-. 

5 P. M. Milk 180 c.c. 

Cream of Wheat or Rice 100 g. 

Sugar 10 g. 

Cream 30 c.c. 

Bread or Toast 30 g. 

Butter 20 g. 

Stewed Primes or Apricots 100 g. 

The cocoa used is to be prepared as follows: 

Cocoa 2 tsp. 

Sugar 1 " 

Hot Water ..% C. 
Milk Va C. 

Level measure of cocoa, sugar, water, and milk. Mix cocoa, sngtr, 
and hot water. Cook over flame three minutes. Add milk and heat 
in double boiler to boiling point. Two drops of vanilla may be 
added as flavor. Beat with Dover beater before serving. 

STANDARD INTEESTITIAL NEPHRITIS DIET i 
New York Post Graduate Hospital 

To be in all respects similar to the Parenchymatous Ne- 
phritis Diet, except that the food is not to be prepared salt free, 
and bread or toast may be substituted for Matzoths. 



DIET IN UREMIA 



A special diet is indicated when uremia is actually present 
and when certain symptoms point to its actual approach • also 
probably when blood and urine tests show that uremia will 
probably develop within a short time. 

1 Diet used at the New York Post Graduate Hospital, New York City 1917. 



GENITO'URINARY SYSTEM 40^ 



Material Weight 

Lemonade 
Lemon Juice 
Sugar 224 gms. 

Water 1 Litre 



TTREMIC DIET i 






Percentage of 




CarhO' Cal- 


Measure Protein 


Fat hydrates oriea 


Juice of 




6 lemons 


9.8 60 




100 918 



Vomstarch 








Blanc Mange 








Cornstarch 


112 


gms, 


1 


Sugar 


154 


(( 




Water 






1 Litre 


Lemon Jmce 






30 c.c. 



90 413 
100 631 



2022 



Divide into five equal portions, feeding at 8 A. M., 10 A. M., 12 m., 
3 P. M., and 6 p. m. 
Method of making Cornstarch Blanc Mange: 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and 230 c.c. of cold water to a smooth paste. 
Pour 750 c.c. of boiling water over it gradually, stirring constantly. 
Cook over flame imtil it thickens, meanwhile stirring constantly. 
Then place over hot water 30 minutes. Add lemon juice before 
serving. 

DIET IN ALBTTHINTTEIA 
Thompson 2 

Dietetic Treatment. The frequent return of functional 
albuminuria should be regarded as an indication of special 
weakness of the kidneys in the same way that frequent 
glycosuria invites suspicion of the strength of the digestive 
power of the liver, and it demands a careful regulation of 
the diet. Meat should be reduced in quantity, or temporarily 
forbidden, as well as all forms of alcoholic drinks, or other 
substances liable to produce renal irritation, and the diet 
should consist chiefly of fruits, vegetables, and milk. Care- 
ful attention must be paid to increasing the activity of the 
bowels. 

1 Diet used at the New York Post Graduate Hospital, New York City, 1917. 
2W. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York, D. 
Appleton & Co. 



410 DIET IN DISEASE 

When functional albnminnria is observed in children and 
adolescents the following dietary from which a variety of 
foods may be selected is recommended. 

Diet : — Bacon, sweetbreads, cnstards, butter, cream, milk, 
cereals and breadstnfb, gingerbread, potatoes, celery, blanc- 
mange. Bavarian cream, whipped cream, and sponge cake. 
Wine or lemon jelly, junket, bread pudding, apple sauce, or- 
anges, ripe bananas, pineapple juice, prunes^ cocoa, lemonade, 
orangeade. 




DIET IS NEBVOUS DISOHDESS 

Dietetic Treatraent. Tlie first thing to be done for a per- 
son suffering from nerve exhaustion is to adopt a dietary 
and a habit of life, that will rebuild the nerve cells. The 
lost energy must be gently and slowly " coaxed " back — not 
tJirough medicines, but through proper environments, proper 
employment and proper food. There is no disease that re- 
quires BO little medicine aa nerve exhaustion. The dietary 
should be simple and nutritioua, abounding in lettuce, pars- 
ley and the fresh green edibles- in season. If there is much 
intestinal disturbance, foods that are rich in starch should 
be discarded. Active stimulants should be entirely eschewed. 
Take freely of unferment«d grape juice, malted milk and 
Sanatogen in milk or Vichy. 

In functional nervous disease, such as hysteria and hy- 
pochondriasis, the appetite, muscular elasticity, and mental 
powers will often be observed to be deficient in the early part 
of the day, and to recover their tone in the evening. At this 
latter time, therefore, it is advisable to make the principal 
meal. 

DIET in SXin DISEASES 

\early all affections of the skin of constitutional or reflex 
(gastro-intestinal) origin, especially acne, eczema, psoriasis, 
seborrhcea capitis, pruritus, urticaria, etc., improve under 
dietetic measures and often recover under these alone. 
While no special plan applies to all, the elimination of sugar 
and sweets of all kinds, and substances rich in fat, as cheese, 
nuts, fried articles, etc., is essential. Pure fats like butter, 
cream, salad oil, etc., are, however, well enough in small 



412 



DIET IN DISEASE 



amoBnts. Malt liqaors and sweet wines disagree, largdt 
because of the sugar flieiein; but alcohol itself is idso prej- 
udicial in many eases. 

It is well to take all food in small rations, and masticate 
it thoronghlT; for the prejudicial effect of food in skin dis- 
eases is often directly attributable to fermentation, favored 
by atony of the digestive tract, dilated stomach, constipa- 
tion, etc. Physical exerciBe is of great benefit in most of 
these case& 

The diet and other r^imen in skin diseases is much like 
that for obesity, gout and diabetes. All these metabolic dis- 
orders tend to produce skin diseases. 

OIET fO& CAHCEK 0& SXIV DISEASES i 

FoKST Day 

BrmkfmMt. — 4 ounces rice, 3 ounces com bread, 1^ omices butter, 

^ oonce sugar, hot water. 
I>immer, — 5 ounces TegetaUe soup, 3 ounces baked potatoes, 3 ounces 

stewed celery, 1 ounce grabam fare^ 1^ omices butter, 1 

frvsh apple. 
Supper. — 4 ounces rolled oats, 2 ounces white bread, 1% ounces 

butter, 4 ounces stewed prunes, ^ ounce sugar, very weak 

tea. 

Second Dat 

BrtQxf^st, — Orange, 4 ounces hominy, 2 ounces graham toast, 1^ 

ounces butter. ^ ounce sugar, postum. 
I>t>ikrr. — 5 ounces pea soup, 3 ounces macaroni, 3 ounces string 

beans. 3 ounces carrot, 2 ounces bread, 1% ounces butter, 
ci^h^r^r. — 4 ounces cream of wheat, 2 ounces graham toast 1^ 

oumvs baked apple, 2 ounces crackers, 1% ounces butter, ^ 

ounc^ su^r. verr weak tea. 

TmsD Day ' 

K'wo.v'^itt— Banana, 4 ounces Petti John, 2 ounces white bread, 1V4 

ouiKVS butter, ^ ounce sugar, hot water. 
Oiiti^^. — 5 ounces com soup, 3 ounces baked potato, 3 oimoes 

<i|M«Ach. S ounces boiled onion, 2 ounces bread, 1% ounces 

buttcr» raisins. 
^Kt\tvr--4 ounces farina, 4 oimces stewed figs, 2 ounces graham 

cracker, 1 ^^j ounces butter, ^4 ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

\ Ow« wwsl *l Ik* N>^ York Skin and Cancer Hospital, New York. 1917. 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 413 

FouBTH Day 

Breakfast.^- Raw apple, 4 ouuces cornmeal muBb, 2 ounces gr&ham 
bread, 1!4 ounces butter, Vj ounce sugar, postum. 

Dinner. — 5 ounces vegetable aoup, 4 ounces baked beans, 3 ouneea 
caulidower, 3 ounces asparagus, 2 ounces bread, 'A ounce but- 
ter, orange. 

Supper. — 4 ounces rice, 4 ounces atewed prunes, 2 ounces graham 
cracker, IV* ounces butter, Vi ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

Fifth Das 
Breakfast. — Orange, 4 ouucea cracked wheat, 3 ounces corn mufBns, 

114 ounces butter, Mi ounce sugar, bot water. 
Dinner. — 5 ounces sago soup, 4 ounces spaghetti, 3 ounces lima beans, 

3 ounces boiled onions, 114 ounces butter, dates, 
Bupper.— 4 ounces cream of wheat, sliced orange, 2 ounces oatmeal 

crackers, I^^ ounces butter, 14 ounce sugar, very weak tea. 

Sixth Day 
Breaktaat. — 4 ounces samp, 2 ounces graham toast, 114 ounces 

butter, lA ounce sugar, PoHtum. 
Dinner. — 5 ounces celery soup, 4 ounces baked potatoes, 3 ounces 

carrots, 3 ounces spinach, 11^ ounces butter, 2 ounces bread. 
Supper. — 4 ounces wheatena, 4 ounces atewed figs, 2 ounces Uneeda 

Biscuit, lli ounce butter, 14 ounce sugar, very weak tea, 

DIETETIC HANAOEICEnT OF 3TJS6ICAL CASES 

Not much special attention is paid to dietetics until a day 
or two before operation, with the esception of stomach cases. 
'Wlienever a patient is to be operated on for a stomach affec- 
tion, many surgeons advocate the free use of articles rich in 
vegetable acids, believing that such articles are natural anti- 
eepticfi for the stomach and intestines. These substances, 
while technically acids, are quickly changed to alkalies in 
the body, and tend to lessen the total acidity of the latter. 
Some German surgeons even allow such patients to eat freely 
of sauerkraut, sour milk, etc. 

In other cases, the patient is placed in bed, or is in com- 
plete rest for several days, and fed on very simple and nutri- 
tious articles in moderate quantities only. The old custom 
of fattening or building patients up before operating on them 
has largely died out. If the bad general state of the patient 



L 



414 DIET IN DISEASE 

is due to the condition wbidi is to be operated on^ notiiing 
is gained by snob attempts. In the case of a rapidly pro- 
gressing disease, erery bonr lost before Ofper^tlng mav dimin- 
ish the chance for recoTery, immediate or ultimate.' If the 
patient is in bad condition for nithstandin^ an operation, he 
may often be operated on safely under local anesthesia. 
There are many resources to-day for minimiziii^ the dangers 
of shock and hemorrhage. As a general role the sooner a 
patient is operated on, the better, irrespective of the nrgencr 
of the condition* To lire for weeks and months in anticipa- 
tion of an operation is believed by its depressLog- effect to off- 
set alleged attempts at strengthening patients. 

WTien a general anesthetic is to be given the patient must 
fast beforehand to such an extent that the stomach is empty 
at the hour of anesthesia. As operations are nsnally per- 
formed in the forenoon, the patient should take but little 
supper and no breakfast. Should the operation be performed 
late in the day, he may have a light breakfast. 

In emergency operations, the patient having taken food 
within six hours, the stomach should first be washed out. 
This is also done as a routine procedure in all operations 
involving the stomach, itself. Water may be given at anv 
time. After the operation there is such a natural tendencv 
to nausea that little or no attempt should be made to feeo 
the patient for some hours. Only in exceptional cases in 
which the stomach is not upset and the patient complains 
of hunger, a little tea and toast, or milk may be given. In 
the great majority of cases no food is given until the foDow- 
ing day. 

As soon as the stomach will tolerate it, however, simple 
nutritious food should be given in proper amounts. The 
tendency to-day is toward getting up early after operations, 
and against everything which tends to make the patient pas- 
sive and bedfast. The patient therefore needs more food 
than if he were to be bedridden. 

In patients who from any reason are unconscious or de- 
lirious after operation, some plan of artificial treatment is 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 415 

necessary, involving the nse of the naaal, stomach or rectal 
tube. 

In any condition in which post operative vomiting will 
undo the results of operation, the diet should be extremely 
light and bland until healing has occurred, and it may be 
necessary to feed by the rectum. If the patient is unable to 
masticate. he must be given only liquid or very soft foods. 

Ah a rule, when post operative feeding ia left wholly to 
the discretion of the nurse, a certain rule is adopted as fol- 
lows : 

No food at all for the first twenty-four hours. Water may 
be given in sips for the intolerable thirst and in addition to 
plain water, the patient may receive a swallow of carbonated 
water, cracked ice, a little hot tea or black coffee, or some 
alcoholic stimulant. Toward the end of the period a tea- 
spoonful or two of milk diluted with lime water may be 
given. 

During the second twenty-four-hour period about one-half 
a pint of milk or some other liquid food may be given in 
small doses and this amount may be doubled on the third 
day. 

The third or fourth day usually coincides with normal 
bowel action, the patient having received laxatives on the day 
preceding. The patient as soon as this has occurred may 
go upon a aemi-solid diet, so increased as to be regular at 
tlie end of a week or ten days. 

The diet varies notably with the patient and the kind of 
operation and its outcome and the responsibility for special 
provisions suited to individual cases falls upon the medical 
attendant and are modified from day to day under his direc- 
tions. 

DIET AFTEB LAf AEOTOMY, OTAEIOTOHT. ETC. 
Dr. Thompson i 

After all operations involving opening the peritoneal cav- 
ity complete rest of the stomach ia necessary for at least four 

U.D.; "Prastiol DIatMia." Maw Tork. D- 



41t: DIET IN DISEASE 

or six bonis, and not infrequently for two or three im. 
Fix>d and stimnknts may be given by enemata. If fed per os 
fv^ lie firsi three days, not over a tablespoonful of pancrea- 
iirS<»c^i milk or milk with lime water or barely water should 
b^ ali>wed, onoe in two or three hours. Later the quantity 
iniT be increased and the intervals diminished, and beef tea, 
r»c^f pepionoids, and egg albumin may be added. 

lii tbese cases the duration of anesthesia has usually been 
rrS3^:nA?ft3, and ihe shock is considerable. The danger from 
:-V vxviirneaioe of vomitings fermentation of food, and flatn- 
I'jrci iisxeniion of the abdomen is far worse than that of in- 
Ar-::iciCi frvon abstinence. It is well also to precede the opera- 
::.^r. >t « day or two of dieting in order to lessen the bulk 
!>.: ir:TJc^:inal w;tste matter. To this end the diet should, 
^V;::: rv^We. ocMosist chiefly of lean meat and dry toast, 
^•^j::^:3iK»i>? aiid ejsp^eially sweets being avoided. 

A:'t\^r iR>^ih3s and operations affecting the stomach or in- 
t^>$5:rte>? T>o ivv^ at aU should be given by the mouth. Noth- 
:r,^ b::: a liiTk crtcked ice should be so administered, and 
iV, r>.""^r,^^r!>eiil mus^t be supplied for several days bv the 
Tw:'::r,':. The Tv-iTim w mouth-feeding must be made verv 
N^-^iiN ir..\ oi^iiccsJT by at first giving not over one or two 
::i^^>^;^:\v.r.f ,:'<i of pancreatinised milk or beef juice at a time. 
?>>; :\^ :^ o::5fr. unach thirst following operations involving 
;V xv: ,^^rMrc:£l. which is relieved more by hot fluids than by 
>A\ >*>.^.>, :?oc:':x^::iiie$ irritates the throat and increases the 
,wv!V ^-T .?r,r.>:. If there is danger of all fluids exciting 
,N-N;nN-^ i $*h-w:fct^J enema once in three or four hours will 




DIET IH FKEaNANGT 



It is necessary to adopt a specific diet for pregnancy only 
when complications arise. If eerious vomiting occurs in the 
early months, this disorder should he treated in the manner 
descrihed in the following article. If albuminuria is discov- 
ered, meat and other nitrogenous food must be restricted in 
accordance with directions given for albujuinuria. If the 
patient becomes ansemic, without albuminuria, miik, egga 
and other iron-hearing foods should be eaten in abundance, 
particularly such vegetables as spinach and celery, and fruits 
including oranges and dates. In cases where constipation 
must be remedied, fruits, vegetables, and coarse cereals such 
as oatmeal and wheaten grits, will be of service. The " long- 
ing " of pregnant women for various indigestible articles 
such as pickles, chalk, etc., is largely raj'thical, and occurs, 
if at all, only as an accompaniment of a general hysterical 
condition, not as a peculiarity of the period of pregnancy. 

A few general rules for wise eating would certainly include 
the following: 

1. Let the diet always be simple and easy of digestion. 

2. Be sure that it furnishes abundant fuel value, since car- 
rying the unborn child increases the energy requirement of 
pregnant women about 10% over the normal. 

3. Include in the dietary foods high in calcium and phos- 
phorus; among the former are milk, orange juice, and such 
vegetables as celery, cauliflower, asparagus, lettuce, and 
spinach; among the latter^ fish, lean beef, lettuce, spinach, 

417 



418 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

rutabagas, and parsnips. The skeletal lime supply and some- 
times the teeth of the pregnant woman are called upon to 
furnish calcium for the unbom child, if the food does not 
supply enough lime. During periods of insufficient phos- 
phorus assimilation, there is also skeletal lime- waste. 

4. Never eat when tired, and do not overload the stomach. 

The diet as a whole, then, must be digestible, and suffi- 
ciently high in nourishment and mineral content to keep the 
patient in good condition. 

DIET nr YOMITINa — SEASICKNESS — VOMITING OF PREG- 
NANCY 

Thompson i 

The first principle in the dietetic treatment of vomiting 
from any cause is to give the stomach rest. If it has been 
overloaded with a large bulk of food, or with indigestible 
material, it is well to encourage emesis, and distressing retch- 
ing may be overcome by taking large draughts of lukewarm 
water. A quart or two will rinse out the stomach and allay 
irritation to a marked degree. 

Well nourished patients when serious vomiting first occurs 
should usually refrain from taking food of €iny kind for from 
ten or twelve or even twenty-four hours. Exceptions to this 
rule are sometimes found in that type of seasickness, and 
sometimes in the vomiting of pregnancy, in which, as soon 
almost as the stomach is emptied, there is a desire to replen- 
ish the loss. 

In any case in which the gastric irritation is persistent, 
it is necessary to give fiuid food, and only in small oft-re- 
peated doses, preferably in predigested form. The food is 
best given cold, as a rule, although some persons can relieve 
nausea by sipping very hot water. 

A teaspoon of prepared milk, or in extreme cases but a 
few drops, given with a medicine dropper once in ten or fif- 
teen minutes, may be all that the stomach will at first toler- 
ate. 

The following is a list of dietetic substances which are 

1 W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New fork. IX 
Appleton & Go. 



MOTHERHOOD 419 

commonly prescribed for the relief of nansea and vomiting, 
or for nourishment while those conditions exist: Cracked 
ice; pancreatioised milk; milk with sodium bicarbonate (ten 
grains), and cerium oxalate (five grains); milk and lime 
water; Vichy or milk with Sanatogen; milk and Vichy, soda, 
seltzer, or carbonic-acid water; kumyss and zoolak; beef ex- 
tracts; raw meat pulp, scraped; strong black coffee; sour lem- 
onade or lemonade and Vichy ; clam broth. Dry crackers, dry 
toast, and ginger snaps will sonietimes be retained in seasick- 
ness, or a cracker buttered and sprinkled with a little 
Cayenne pepper ; brandy and soda ; iced dry champagne ; iced 
brandy diluted with water, soda water, or carbonated water. 
Very severe and protracted cases may require lavage or 
nutrient enemata. Vomiting after abdominal surgical opera- 
tions is often controlled by lavage. 

DIET FOE THE KOTHSR AFTER I.ABOB 

Immediately after labor in normal cases a milk diet is 
given for the flrst six hours; at the end of that time, regular 
diet. The regular diet should include stewed fruits, and 
cereals given frequently; eggs, vegetables which are easy of 
digestion, and very little meat — no veal nor pork. Plenty 
of milk should be supplied. 

In abnormal cases the diet is prescribed by the physician. 

In cases of severe engorgement of breasts, fluids are re- 
stricted; a dry diet is given, which consists of the regular 
diet, and one glass of milk with each meal; no tea nor eoSee, 
and no fluid between meals. 

In cases of eclampsia milk is always given, and also a 
large quantity of water, either hot or cold, and cream of tartar 
drink. 

DIET OF A inTBSinO UOTHEE OB WET mmSE 

Thompaon i 
The diet of the nursing mother or wet nurse must he regu- 
lated to prevent noxious substances from passing into the 

iW. OUnui Thompion, M.D.; "Poetical Dletetki." New TDrk. D. 
Applaton A Co. 



420 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

breast milk, and to keep her in good health, so that she does 
not suffer from constipation, indigestion, or anaemia. Her 
weight should not alter, and if she has menstruated once or 
twice the milk changes and may disagree. 

If milk does not make her constipated or bilious, she may 
drink it abundantly. Cream, cocoa, and chocolate are all 
valuable in the diet. She may take gruels- and meat broths, 
and she should eat simple nourishing food, meat, eggs, veg- 
etables, and fruits. The latter, even if sour, do not react 
unfavorably upon the child, provided the mother^s digestion 
is good, and they serve to keep the child's bowels active. A 
high supply of calcium is still necessary, for the mammary 
glands, during their activity, are a severe drain on the skeletal 
lime unless an abundance is offered for assimilation from 
the food. Accordingly the vegetables and fruits named be- 
fore are a necessary addition to the diet. A liberal supply of 
iron is also very desirable. The iron of meat, occurring in 
the blood which is not very easily digested, is less available 
than the iron of eggs, vegetables, and fruits. The mother 
should forego the drinking of much tea and coffee. Beer 
and wine also should not be drunk unless they are especially 
prescribed as a tonic. Wet nurses often demand beer, ale, 
or porter with their meals if they have been accustomed 
to it; but the popular idea that such beverages are especially 
beneficial is fallacious. Malt liquor sometimes causes the 
secretion of more milk, because more fluid is drunk, but the 
milk is no better for it. A reasonable quantity of fluid? 
should be drunk, however, or the secretion of milk will suffer. 
The fluid may be in the form of plain or effervescing water, 
milk, soups, etc. 

The mother or wet nurse should avoid all fatigue, worrv, 
and emotional excitement of any kind, which msLx inhibit her 
digestive functions, and should take daily outdoor exercise. 

On the whole, the best indication for the dietetic treatment 
of the wet nurse is the study of the condition of the child V 
digestion, bowels, and nutrition. A too meager diet for the 



MOTHERHOOD 421 

nurse is soon evident in lack of nutrition and development 
of the infant. 

Drugs in Human Milk. Not many drugs pass unchanged 
into the milk which are likely to poison the child through 
its food, but there are some which should be carefully avoided 
on this account. Such are belladonna, opium, morphine, and 
other alkaloids; iodin and its preparations; mercury and its 
salts; salicylic acid. 

When, for any reason, it becomes necessary to discontinue 
the nursing and to stop further secretion of milk, the diet 
should at once be made as dry as possible, and a minimum 
quantity only of fluid is allowed. 



CHAPTER XXI 
INFANT FEEDINa 



PROCESS OF DIGESTIONS 

In order to comprehend the principles which rmderhe the 
proper feeding of infants, it is well to understand what is 
involved in the process of digestion and what food elements 
are needed for the growth, maintenance, and repair of the 
body. 

Digestion is the process or series of processes by which the 
food eaten is changed into the forms in which it can be ab- 
sorbed by the tissues of the body. This is a most intricate 
operation, involving the use of many organs and functions, 
but one which takes place without difficulty in the healthy 
human body. But since all the complicated machinery neces- 
sary for digestion must be started at once, and since, neces- 
sarily, the organs of a newborn baby can be but feeble, it 
stands to reason that the food presented to him must be espe- 
cially adapted to his needs. This food must be liquid; it 
must also contain the five essential elements which the human 
body requires for maintenance and growth, namely, the fats, 
sugars and starches, which furnish the necessary fuel for 
energy; the proteins, or muscle-forming foods; the mineral 
salts needed for the growth of all tissues and regulation of 
body processes and, lastly, a great amount of water. All 
these are found in milk, and in no other food which the in- 
star (*) indicates quotations from "Infant Care" issned bv the U. 8. 
Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. 0. (Cfare of Chil- 
dren, Series No. 2, Bureau Publication No. 8.) 

References to "Parental Care" issued by the U. S. Department of 
Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C, are made in Uiis chapter, 
copies of same can be secured by writing to the department. 

422 



INFANT FEEDING 433 

fant is capable of digesting. Therefore milk is the one proper 
infant food. 

BREAST FEEDHTO* 

The millf necessary for the normal heaJthy growth of every 
infant mammal, including the human species, is created for 
it in the breast of its mother. The milk of the cow, mare, 
ass, goat, and other animals has been analyzed by many in- 
vestigators, to see whether any one of them bears so close a 
resemblance to human milk that it may be used as a substi- 
tute. All these investigations show that the milk of each 
animal is different from that of every other, and each is espe- 
cially adapted to the requirements of the young of that spe- 
cies. Ifo other argument than this simple physiological one 
should be needed to induce a thoughtful mother to nurse her 
baby at the beginning of his life, but if further demonstra- 
tioQ is needed the evidence on every hand of the comparative 
failure of artificial feeding, at least as far as young babies 
are concerned, should be convincing,' 

Statistics gathered from this country and many others show 
that breast-fed babies have a much greater chance for life 
than those who are bottle fed, and also that the infant ill- 
nesses, not only those of the digestive tract but many other 
I'arieties, afflict bottle-fed infants much oftener and much 
more seriously than those who have breast milk. But not 
only does breast milk protect the nursing baby from illness 
and increase materially his chance for life, but it practically 
insures that his development shall proceed in a normal orderly 
fashion. 

The body makes a greater proportional growth during the 
first year of life than during any other, and the brain in- 
creases more in the same time than in all the rest of the 
years of life put together. It is therefore of the utmost im- 
portance to the whole existence of each individual that during 
this most critical period the baby be surrounded with all the 
necessities for perfect health. The most important of these 

1 8«e Pr?niilal Cue. pp. S2-35, for coniideration at breait itedatg mi if- 



424 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

necessities is breast milk. Food is the one question of over- 
whelming importance to the baby. If the food is one to 
which the digestive apparatus must learn to accommodate 
itself, or one which is lacking in some of the elements neces- 
sary for growth and development, the natural processes are 
hindered, and if illness comes, the^ are seriously interfered 
with, sometimes to an extent which makes it difficult, if not 
impossible, for the baby entirely to regain the lost ground. 
To accustom the infant organs to do their work properly at 
this critical, formative time is essential to the health of the 
adult in no small degree. Undoubtedly in many cases grown 
people would have escaped many of the defects and deficiencies 
with which they have to contend if they had passed the period 
of infancy in perfect health. 

These are the impelling reasons why mothers should nurse 
their babies. Other less important reasons are that if the 
mother takes care of the baby herself it is much easier to 
nurse than to feed by a bottle; that breast milk is practically 
free from disease germs, and that it is fed to the baby at a 
uniform temperature from beginning to end of the nursing. 

NURSING HOTHERHe i 

The majority of mothers can nurse their babies, at least 
in part, if they have suitable care and advice. What is chiefly 
required is that this conviction should enter the mind of the 
mother and abide there ; for the fear that she will not be able 
to perform this function, or that the milk will not or does 
not agree with her child, has more to do with the supposed 
inability to nurse than any other one factor. The gland 
which secretes maternal milk is a wonderful and delicate 
mechanism. So intimate is the connection of the mammarv 
nerves with the mind that the mental states of the mother 
are readily reflected in their function. Fear, anger, or worry 
may serve to check the secretion of the milk, or to change 
its quality so much that, for the time being, it is unfit for 
use, while, on the other hand, a calm mind, joy, laughter, 

1 See Prenatal Care, pp. 32-35. 



INFANT FEEDING 435 

and delight in life, coupled with the desire and intention to 
DUTBe the baby, will make it possible to do so. Failing this 
spirit, all other measures may prove futile. 

The secretion of milk is induced by the efforts of the baby 
to nurse, and therefore he should be put to the breast regu- 
larly for at least two weeks after birth, even if only a very 
little milk is secreted. This patient effort, with proper food 
And care, coupled with the determination to succeed, will 
■usually result in a good supply of milk, and no physician or 
nurse who appreciates the value of breast milk for the baby 
will counsel another course. It is rarely true that the moth- 
er's milk does not agree with the baby. It is much more 
often deficient in quantity than in quality. The return of 
menstruation may lead to a alight temporary disturbance, but 
it is not a sufficient cause for weaning. 

Diet. A nursing mother should have a light, abundant, 
and appetizing diet, and such a one as causes her no indi- 
gestion. Disturbances in the digestive tract of the motlier 
are quickly reflected in the baby's condition, and therefore 
the mother should refrain from eating or drinking those 
things which she knows from experience she can not digest. 
As a rule, indigestion in the nLotlier, which diows itself in 
conatipation, eructations of gas, headache, diarrhea, and the 
like, is caused by such foods as heavy puddings or underdone 
pastrj'; doughnuts; fried food soaked in fat; made dishes, 
such as croquettes and fritters ; pickles, mincemeat, baked 
beans, pork and cabbage, and other heavy or poorly cooked 
foods; but people differ greatly in their power of digestion, 
and what will suit one person may upset the next. Overeat- 
ing may be a cause of indigestion. 

A mixed diet of such digestible and nutritious foods as are 
readily available is desirable for the nursing mother. All 
foods are milk-making foods. Emphasis should be laid on 
a high calcium and iron content for the diet; the former is 
necessary since the mammary glands, during their period of 
activity, are a severe drain on the skeletal lime unless a plen- 
tiful supply is present in the food offered for assimilation. 



426 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Accordingly such vegetables as celery, asparagus, carrots, let- 
tuce, radishes and spinach, and such fruits as oranges, grape 
fruit, dates, etc., besides plenty of milk, are necessary in the 
diet. A liberal amount of iron will be insured by the above 
list, provided eggs are added. In general the foods will in- 
clude vegetables easy of digestion, ripe fruits, poultry, beef, 
lamb, fish, with oysters and the like, eggs, milk, cheese, 
farinaceous foods (cereals, flour, meals, etc.), breads, espe- 
cially graham, whole wheat, corn meal, and bran, and simple 
desserts. Occasionally acid fruits, vegetables, and spices 
eaten by the mother may cause some disturbance in the baby, 
and in such cases they should be avoided. 

Constipation is to be most carefully avoided, by eating bran 
bread/ vegetables in which the cellulose content is high, and 
other laxative foods. Drugs should be taken as little as pas- 
sible, and only on the doctor's advice. Tea and coflfee may be 
taken in moderation, not more than one cup of each a day. 
Alcoholic drinks of all sorts are better avoided. One quart 
of milk should be taken each day. Six to eight glasses of 
good drinking water a day are required, one or two of which 
should be taken on rising to encourage the action of the bowels. 

Exercise, In order that a healthy nursing mother may be 
able to eat and digest a generous supply of food materials, 
exercise in the fresh air is indispensable. This must be un- 
dertaken gradually, so that the woman who is not accustomed 
to exercise may not be overtired. A vigorous walk is one 
of the best of tonics, because of its effect both on the body 
and on the mind. Worries take flight when treated to sun- 
shine and fresh air and leave the nervous system free to 
perform its normal functions. The woman who has a garden 
to look after, or other interests which take her out of doors 
a good deal in the course of a day, gets her exercise in the 
most natural way, but she will need to be on guard against 
overtaxing herself. No exercise should be carried on to the 
point of weariness, because then the nutriment which should 

1 See " Diet for a nursing mother," Prenatal Care, p. 34. 



INFANT FEEDING 437 

go to make milk for the baby will be used to renew the moth- 
er 'a worn-out tissues. 

Sleep. An abundance of sleep is essential. The nursing 
mother should have at least eight hours of sleep every night, 
and an hour in the daj'time. A mother soon learns to rest 
herself whenever the baby nurses, and these brief periods of 
relaxation help greatly to keep her in good condition. 

Bathing.'- A daily bath is desirable, and should be taken 
whenever possible. It is especially important to remove the 
odors of perspiration or old milk from the mother's body and 
clothing, as the baby may refuse to nurse when an unpleasaJit 
odor is forced upon him. 

Amusements and Recreation. A conscientious young 
mother is very apt to defeat her own ends by staying at home 
too constantly and watching over her baby so incessantly that 
she grows pale and nervous and begins to worry, a condition 
which often results in depletion of the mUk and correspond- 
ing disturbance in the baby. Healthy babies are better off 
with a judicious amount of " letting alone," and there is no 
reason why a mother should not be absent some part of every 
day, if there is a responsible person to be left in charge. Out- 
of-door life, pleasant recreation which is not exhausting, vis- 
iting, and other diversions are essentia! to every nursing 
mother if she is to keep up an abundant supply of milk. The 
family, especially the husband, should realize how important 
it is to shield the nursing mother from unnecessary work and 
worry, and to provide her at intervals with the opportunity 
for rest and recreation. However, a healthy mother should 
not regaxd herself nor permit her family to regard her as in 
any sense an invalid at this time. She is much more likely 
to succeed in nursing if she goes about her ordinary duties 
as usual and fills her life with normal interests. 

TECENiaTJE OF NUESING* 

The first secretion of the breasts is called colostrum, and 
while not a true milk is adapted to the baby's needs in the 

19m "Blthlne," Frenltal Csre, p. 13. 



428 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

first hours of his life. He should therefore be put to the 
breast as soon after birth as the mother is able to bear it 
This early nursing is important to the mother because it helps 
to contract the uterus, and to the baby for various reasons, 
one of which is that he needs to learn how to draw his food 
before the breast fills with milk and becomes less pliant and 
more painful. 

The mother holds the baby on her arm, drawing him to the 
breast in such a way that his head is comfortably supported, 
turning slightly toward the side she wishes to present and 
drawing the baby^s feet and legs against her body. A pillow 
under the opposite shoulder is a welcome support. The baby 
should be able to grasp the nipple squarely. If his head is 
too low, the milk may fiow back in his throat, making him 
cough and choke; but the head must be low enough so that 
the nostrils are not covered by the breast. It is impossible 
for the baby to suck properly unless he can breathe freely, 
and the mother should hold the breast away from his nostrils 
with the fingers of her free hand. When the breasts hare 
filled, if the milk flows too fast, as sometimes happens, she 
may control the flow by taking the breast in her hand so that 
one finger is above and one below the nipple and by pressing 
it gently at the base. If the baby^s efforts to nurse make the 
mother^s nipples sore, they should be washed with plain boiled 
water or boric-acid solution before and after each nursinsr and 
may be anointed with lanolin at night, covering them with 
gauze or clean linen. If a crack should appear, the greatest 
care should be taken to prevent infecting the breast, as if this 
happens a painful breast abcess may result. A doctor should 
always be consulted. The cracked nipple should be kept con- 
stantly clean by washing it with boiled water. A glass nipple 
shield should be used, care being taken that it is always per- 
fectly clean and made sterile by boiling. The shield will not 
materially increase the difficulty of nursing for the baby and 
will safeguard the mother. If the breasts become engorged, 
they may be relieved by using a breast pump, if necessary, 
or by gentle massage; but all manipulation only serves to 



INFANT FEEDING 429 



tonilate the breast to greater activity and the less handling 
can have the better. Hot or cold applications, according 
lo the patient's preference, are useful, and a breast binder 
is often a great relief, but should be applied fay a physician 
or nurse.' Usually the matter rights itself without difficulty 
as soon as the relation between the supply and demand is 
established. If the mother has received the proper care dur- 
ing pregnancy and the breasts and nipples have received due 
attention, which is part of a doctor's duty, the nursing period 
will be shorn of much of its pain and trouble. In general, 
the nipples should be kept as clean and as dry as possible 
and should be washed before each nursing. 

REOTTLASITY IN NUESniGO 

The baby should be nursed regularly, by the clock, from 
the very first and should have nothing between meals save 
water to drink. It takes from one and one-half to three 
hours for a baby's stomach to empty itself after a full meal 
of breast milk, and considerably longer for the process of 
digestion to be completed in the intestines. 

The baby should not ordinarily be allowed to remain at the 
breast over 20 minutes in any case, and the nipple should be 
withdrawn several times during the nursing, so that he will 
not take the food too rapidly with consequent regurgitation 
and indigestion. If the milk is plentiful, the breasts should 
be nursed alternately, but it may be necessary to give both 
breasts at one feeding, in order to satisfy the baby. Do not 
let the baby go to sleep while nursing. 

HOW OFTEN TO TEED* 

Most babies thrive better if the interval between feedings 
is fairly long. This interval may be sis hours until the milk 
is established. From that time the baby may be fed at three- 
hour intervals until he is 4 months old, when four hours 
should be allowed to elapse between feedings. Many babies 
do well if fed only once in four hours from birth. However, 

of engorged hreaslB. 




430 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

if the breast supply is scanty, more frequent stimulation ii 
sometimes necessary to the auceesa of breast feeding. 

Night feeding (after the 10 o'clock nursing) may U 
omitted when the child is 4 months old. 

The following table shows nursing interval and the nom- 
her of feedings in 24 hours when the three-hour interval if 
used: ^ 

Nursings Night 

Period in 24 Interval □□THuigt 

hours, bv day. (10 p.m. to 
aA.M-]. 
flours. 

I'lrst and Becond day i S I 

Third day to 4 montha 7 3 1 

4 to 7 months 6 3 

7 to 12 montlis 5 4 

SUFPLEHENIABT FEEDHIO* 

There is apt to he a time, after the departure of the nurse, 
when the mother is just getting about her aecuetomed duties 
and is eoraewhat enfeebled and worried with the care of tlie 
baby, that the supply of milk decreases. It is at this or some 
other later period of stress that many babies are needle«lf 
weaned. Instead, the baby should be put to breast with un- 
failing persistence at regular intervals, no matter liow liltta 
he gets, since every mouthful of breast milk is important W 
him. It is the tendency of the breasts to cease to secret* 
milk when suction is discontinued, and it is essential to • 
continuance of the supply that it be constantly drawn upon. 
The mother shoidd be encouraged to cat more aourisliins 
food, such as milk, cream, eggs, meat, and good bread, and 
to take a larger amount of fluid food. Haw eggs beaten up 
and added to milk agree well with many persons. Even if 
the amount of milk diminishes until the baby gets little or 
none, it may often be reestablished by patient and constant 
effort, provided the mother does not worry, but rather strim 
in every way to build herself up by good food, out-of-doot 
life, and pleaaajit surroundings, in all of which she should 

iThe Cue and Fading at Children, 1914, L. EmmeU HoK. U.D. 



INFANT FEEDING 431 

have the help of her family. Sleanwhile the baby must be 
given additional food, 

WHAT TO FEES* 

This supplementary food should be cows' milk, adapted to 
the age of the infant, given by bottle, using a nipple with a 
very small hole lest the baby, finding it easier to nurse the 
bottle, will not suckle the breast with sufflcient vigor to give 
it the required stimulation. 

HOW MUCH TO PEED* 

In order to determine how much breast milk he ia getting, 
and therefore how much supplementary food is needed, the 
baby should he weighed, without making any change in the 
clofiiing, before and after each nursing in 24 hours and the 
results carefully set down. At the end of this period it will 
be possible, by adding the various amounts together, to see 
exactly how much milk the baby has had and from this to 
determine to what extent the mother's milk needs to be sup- 
plemented. In this situation the lielp and care of a good 
doctor are especially needed. 

The scales should be similar to grocer's scales, having a 
pan or basket in which to lay the baby, and should weigh 
to one-half ounce. Spring scales are not sufficiently accurate 
for this purpose. 

CAPACITY OF BAST'S STOUACH 

Newly born about 1 ounce; 

At 1 month about 2j ounceg. 

At 2 months about 3i ounccH. 

from then on, up to the first six months, the gain is only 
fractional, so that at that time it is barely four ounces. 

One should bear in mind that the haby often craves water, 
rather than milk, and should always be offered it at intervals. 
It takes in this way one and one-hatE ounces or more each 
day, uflually at the rate of two teaspoonfuls every four hours. 
This use of water tends to prevent overfeeding. It is a good 






432 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

plan to give the water, in a nursing bottle, as in this wayihe 
child becomes accustomed to its use, and less difficulty is 
experienced at weaning time, or when breast feeding has to 
be partially or wholly discontinued for any reason. 

WEIGHT* 

In order to determine how the baby is thriving, it is neces- 
sary to weigh him at stated intervals and compare the result. 
The average baby weighs about 7 pounds at birth, boyB being 
slightly heavier than girls. A healthy baby may weigh as 
little as 5 or 6 pounds and as much as 10 or 12 pounds, but 
these weights are unusual. A slight falling oflf in weight 
occurs during the first few days or the first week of Ufe, 
amounting to a few ounces or as much as a pound, but thi? 
loss is promptly regained in from 4 to 10 days, and from 
that time the baby should show a constant gain in weight. 
During the first month the daily gain should average about 
three-fourths of an ounce ; at 7 months, about one-half ounce 
a day; and at 1 year, one-fourth of an ounce a day. The 
average baby gains about 1^ pounds a month for the first 
six months and one pound a month from that time to the 
end of the first year, doubles its weight at about 5 or 6 
months, and trebles it at the end of the first year. A dimin- 
ishing weight demands careful attention. If there is a loss 
in weight, and especially if it is accompanied with other 
symptoms of illness, a good doctor should be consulted at 
once. If these conditions occur in the heat of summer, the 
physician will make any change in the diet with very great 
caution, taking pains not to increase the food to the extent 
of producing diarrhea. 

A very rapid increase in weight is not to be desired. The 
ideal in baby feeding is not to produce a fat baby, but rather 
a proportionately nourished one. It is comparatively easy 
to grow fat, but it is a harder and slower process to grow 
muscle, bone, blood, and nerve tissue. The majority of moth- 
ers feel that if they have a fat, red-cheeked baby it is evi- 
dence they are giving the best sort of care, but this is not 



INFANT FEEDING 433 

always true. Some of tlie well-advcriised infant foods pro- 
duce just this kind of babies, but the lator development shows 
that the food was deficient in some of the important elements 
needed for the symmetrical development of all parts of the 
body, and weakness of some part or aome later deficiency of 
health may he the first indication that such babies were not 
properly fed. A perfect baby does not have the outlines of 
his muscles obliterated by wada and euahions of fat. He ia 
alert, springy. The flesh is hard to pressure, not soft and 
flabby. His color is pinkish, save when the cheeks have been 
reddened by the cold or heat. A leading English authority 
on infant care declares that in hia opinion " it is practically 
impossible for any infant to put on more than G or 8 ounces 
of good nitrogenous tiaaue in one week, and very few can 
put on as much." ^ Bottle-fed babies should he watched with 
particular care as to their weight in summer. It is better to 
have little or no gain during the excessive heat than to upset 
the digestion hy overfeeding designed to Jceep the hahy gain- 
ing. 

HOW TO WEIGH THE BABT« 

Undress the baby completely. Put a soft ciotli in the pan 
of the scales, and lay the baby on it ; or wrap the baby in a 
blanket, if the room is not warm. Weigh carefully and write 
down the result. Kemove the baby, weigh the blanket or 
cloth, and subtract this amount from the first weight. 

When weighing the baby before and after nursings to de- 
termine the amount of breast milk he is receiving, do not un- 
dress him, but weigh both times in exactly the same clothing. 
If the diaper becomes wet or soiled meantime, do not change 
it until after the weight has been taken. 

ARTIFICIAL FEEDING)* 

The term "artificial feeding" refers, in common accept- 
ance, to the method of feeding which must he employed when 
a baby ia, for any reason, denied breast milk, because any 

I Eric FrlKhird. M.D.. Intsiit EdiicXian, London, ISDT, p. IB. 



4^ DIET IX SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ci-er method of feeding a young baby than at its mother's 
"coe^is: is tralT ardfidaL 

UFFEKSVCE TB COKPOSITIOH BETW££K HXTICAH 

AHB OO^rS KILK 

Cov^s inilk has a larger protein content than human milk, 
ano i> richer in mineral matter. Human milk has a larger 
su^r c^>nient and therefore a somewhat sweeter taste. The 
fa: coi::eni of the two kinds of milk is about the same, and 
this is also true of the total solids. The following table shovs 
;he aveT^ge composition of the two kinds of milk : 

Human Cow's 

Wat^T 87% 87% 

Total solids 13% 13% 

Fattv matter 4% 4% 

Lacto^ 7% 5% 

I*n>tein \ see second table) 1.5% 3.3% 

Mineral matter 0.2% 0.7% 

The fat of cow's milk differs with the breed of milch cow, 
and may be as low as 2 per cent, or 3 per cent. The fat in 
human milk is quite constant in amount, but the protein 
content mav vary from 1 per cent, to 2 per cent., the 1.5 per 
cent, in the table being an average. 

Human milk, in comparison with cow^s milk, is very poor 
in casein, but rich in lactalbumin and hence, when coagulated, 
does not form large curds like cow's milk. The relations 
between casein and lactalbumin in the two kinds of milk are 
shown in tlie following table: 

Human Cow's 

Total protein 1.50 3.30 

Casein 50 3.00 

Lactalbumin 1.00 .50 

The high protein content and large proportion of casein 
in cow's milk are advantageous to the calf, with its rapid 
rate of growth, and complex system of stomachs in which 
large curds can be completely digested; but for the more 
slowly growing baby, whose digestion is largely intestinal, 



INFANT FEEDING 435 

the proportion of protein and the character of the curd must 
be modified. The fat of mother's milk contains more oleiu 
and more phosphorized fat (lecithin) than cow's milk. The 
lactose is chemically the same. Freshly drawn cow's milk is 
neutral or amphoteric in reaction to litmus. Basic elements 
predominate in both cow's and human milk, and hence they 
are hoth technically alkaline. The acidity of cow's milk to 
certain indicators is due to the presence of acid salts, such as 
acid calcium phosphate. 

On standing, true acid is formed by the action of lactic 
acid bacteria upon the lactose. For this reason, cow's milk 
frequently reacts acid to litmus. Breast milk is practically 
sterile. 



Wide experience lias shown that fresh cows' milk is the 
best substitute for breast milk. This milk should he the 
purest and cleanest possible; it should be the product of a 
tuberculin-tested herd, one that is healthy, well fed, properly 
housed and cared for, and milked by clean milkers into steril- 
ized utensils. The milk should be bottled and cooled at the 
dairy and delivered to the consumer in sealed bottles. The 
milk commonly sold from open cans, knoivn aa " loose " or 
" dipped " milk, should never be given to a baby. 

Certified Milk. In certain places it is possible to obtain 
what is known as " certified " milk, which is fresh, clean, pure, 
normal milk of uniform composition and highest quality 
obtained from healthy cows and produced and liandled under 
the supervision of a medical milk commission, with special 
sanitary precautions. Although the amount of certified milk 
is as yet far too small, the demand for it is steadily increasing. 
As soon as mothers become convinced of the infinite advan- 
tage of having a supply of raw milk whoso quality is guaran- 
teed, they are quite ready to pay the additional cost. This 
milk averages to cost about 16 cents a quart; but compared 
with the cost of the illness due to the use of unclean milk, 
this is not to be considered. There can be no doubt ^Jiat the 



43G DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

use of certified milk has been a great factor in the reduction 
of deaths from infantile diarrhea in recent years. The Amer- 
ican Association of Milk Commissions publishes literature 
on the subject. The secretary may be addressed at the Ortz 
Building, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Heating or Cooking Milk. When certified milk can not be 
had, or some other milk known to be clean, it is safer to heat 
that which is used. Bad milk may look clean and may taste 
and smell sweet, since disease germs do not reveal their pres- 
ence by the ordinary tests. It is very diflficult to insure the 
cleanliness of the general milk supply, and since it seems 
impossible to be certain that the milk is always perfectly 
clean, it is necessary to kill these germs by some process 
of heating before using the milk for young babies, or for any 
babies, in the heat of summer. These processes, however, do 
not make good milk out of bad, nor clean milk out of that 
which is dirty; they merely make a poor thing a little less 
dangerous, and emphasize the necessity for raising the stand- 
ard of local milk production. 

Breed of Cows, Authorities recommend the herd milk of 
Ilolstein or ordinary grade cows for infant feeding, as such 
milk has a more nearly proper percentage of fat than others. 
If one is obliged to use milk having a high percentage of fat, 
such as that from Jersey or Guernsey cows, some part of tlie 
fat should be removed before making up the feedings.^ 

Care of the Milk. One of the reasons why cows' milk is 
not always a safe food is that it is very readily infected with 
germs, some of which may make the baby sick. These germs 
multiply with astonishing rapidity when the milk is allowed 
to stand for any length of time at a moderate temperature, 
but do not flourish if the milk is kept very cold. The milk 
should never be left standing on the doorstep in the sun, nor 
in a warm kitchen, but should be put in the ice box as soon 
as it is delivered. It must be kept covered, protected from 
dust and flies, not left standing in shallow, open pans nor put 

1 Milk and its Relation to the Public Health, Hygrienic Laboratory BoU. 
No. 56. Wash. D. C. 



INFANT FEEDING 437 

into tte refrigerator in pitchera or open dishes, as it is very 
readily contaminated by other foods. Milk should be iept in 
i jars or bottles which are made sterile by boiling before 
being filled. If the milk is sour, or shows a sediment in the 
bottom of the bottle, it is not fit to give to the baby. 

Homemade Ice Box. An ice box to keep the baby's 
i cold for 24 hours, can be made at home for very 
small cost, as follows : Procure a wooden box about 18 inches 
square, the same depth ; put a layer of sawdust 3 inches thick 
in the bottom of the box ; fill in with sawdust around a 10- 
quart tin pail or a section of 10-inch galvanized pipe which 
occupies the middle of the bos. Inside this pail or pipe 
place another slightly smaller pail, which is to hold the ice 
and the bottles. This inner pail should be covered, and the 
outer bos tightly closed by a wooden cover lined with several 
thicknesses of newspaper. The inner pail should be taken 
out each morning to be emptied and cleaned. This little 
device will keep cool with 5 cents' worth of ice for 2^ hours 
or even longer. When feeding time comes, the box is opened, 
one bottle is taken out, and the box is quickly closed again. 

HOW TO FEED THE BABY 
WHAT TO TEES* 

Leading authorities differ so widely on various points con- 
nected with this subject that no directions can be given which 
will meet with general agreement, A few of the fundamental 
points are given here, but whenever possible the mother should 
confer with a good doctor regarding an artificially fed infant. 

The only proper artificial food is cows' milk, suitably mod- 
ified to suit the child's age and development. Dry milk con- 
taining 12% of butter fat is a good modification. Some 
habies have peculiarities, and with them rules can not be 
closely followed; but with moat, if proper rules are followed 
from the outset, there will be comparatively little trouble. 
The advice of a good doctor should be sought and followed. 
It is most unwise for the mother to experiment with different 
foods or different mixtures, or to trj' to feed her baby by, the 
8dvice of her neighbors. 



C 



438 DIET IX SPECIAL COXDITIONS 



gBinntATi ntisGiFxss of xilk xobificatiohs 

It must be ccmstantly borne in rniad that anything bnt 
mother s milk is a foreign snbstance in the stomach of the 
child, and even to make a mixtnre agreeing in chemical com- 
position with the natural food is not to insure success. The 
general principles must be appUed in a special way to each 
individual case. 

The first step in modification is the dilution of the protein. 
Few new-bom infants can digest pure cow^s milk. Some 
require more dilution than others, "Where the digestive pow- 
ers are unknown, it is wise to begin with a low strength 
and advance as rapidly as the condition of the child will per- 
mit. From ^ to 1 per cent, protein is commonly recom- 
mended for the earlv weeks. 

The second step is the adjustment of the fat. Individual 
infants differ in their tolerance of fat as of protein. But 
inasmuch as the chemical and physical differences are not as 
great in the case of fat, it is usually not necessary to reduce 
it below 2 per cent., and it should approximate the proportion 
in mother^s milk as rapidly as possible. 

When whole milk is diluted, if more than one volume of 
water be added, the percentage of fat is less than two, and 
for greater fat content, fat must be added in the form of 
cream. Since it is difficult to get the right percentage in 
this way, it is customary to select a milk with such a ratio 
between the protein and fat that diluting one to the desired 
strength dilutes the other also to the required degree and is 
known as the Top Milk Method. This is accomplished by 
taking the upper layers of milk which has been standing 
five hours or more for the cream to rise. The upper lay- 
ers have much fat and little protein; the lower, much pro- 
tein and little fat, and the adjustment is readily made by 
taking a certain number of ounces for dilution. In the 
laboratory, the exact fat and protein content can be deter- 
mined by direct analysis. 

The third step in modification is the adjustment of the 



r 



INFANT FEEDING 43!) 

milt sugar. This can usually be given of the full strength 
found in mother's milk (7 per cent.). Since lactose com- 
mercially prepared from cow's milk is of the same composi- 
tion as that in mother's milk, it is only necessary to know 
the percentage already present in the mixture to be fed, and 
then add sutficient to make the desired strength. 

Besides these tliree main steps in artificial feeding, we may 
have as a further consideration the selection of a diluent. 
Water is the first choice, but to aid in the modification of 
the character of the curd, cereal waters or gruels, lime water, 
proprietary foods, etc., are sometimes prescribed. Carefully 
prepared, and regarded mainly as dilutente and not as sub- 
stitutes for milk, the cereals and prepared foods are often 
useful aids. Lime water causes the casein of the milk to 
swell, and tends to send the curd in soft condition into the 
intestines. It is also beneficial as a corrective of constipa- 
tion. 



1. It may be predigested, in which ease there is no casein 
to curdle. 

" Peptonisation " is accomplished by the use of commer- 
cial trypsin (pancreatic extract, and sodium bicarbonate). 
Put the nuxture into milk at body temperature 32° C. Heat 
for approximately two hours, and arrest the process at the 
partial peptonisation stage since peptonised milk is bitter. 
This modification reheves tlie stomach of practically all its 
work, but should be made use of for short periods only. 

2. Sodium bicarbonate can be used. Sodium citrate is 
available for the same purpose. Milk of magnesia also 

s the acidity of the stomach. 
" Protein milk " for emergency cases, is made in the 
following way : A quart of fresh milk is curdled with rennet, 
nsing one ]unket tablet for the quart. Keep the milk at body 
temperature for half an hour; then filter through cheese 
cloth, and discard the whey. Mix the curd with a pint of 



440 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

water; beat, and rub through a very fine sieve two or three 
times. Finally add a pint of buttermilk. This preparation 
has a fuel value of 350 calories to the quart, and the per- 
centage composition is as follows: 

Protein, 3%. Fat, 2^%. Carbohydrate, 1%%. Ash, %%. 

WHAT DILUTION TO USE 

The degree of dilution varies with the age of the child. 
Advance is made from low strength to higher as rapidly as 
the child is able to digest stronger food. Since it is usually 
necessary to begin with a formula weaker than mother's milk, 
it is desirable that stronger formulae be given as soon as 
practicable to compensate for this early loss. This is partic- 
ularly true as regards mineral constituents. On diluted 
cow^s milk, the child gets less iron and phosphorus than in 
mother's milk, and while cow's milk is rich in calcium, it is 
doubtful whether this is as perfectly utilized as that in human 
milk. 

Whenever there are signs of indigestion, such as vomiting 
or frequent loose stools, the mother should dilute the food, 
or omit it altogether, giving nothing but a little plain boiled 
water until the doctor sees the. baby. 

MODIFIED WHOLE MILK 

The following directions for feeding the baby modified 
whole milk have been prepared by a committee of the Ameri- 
can Medical Association.^ 

Beginning on the third day, the average baby should be given 3 
ounces of milk daily, diluted with 7 ounces of water. To this should 
be added 1 tablespoonful of lime water and 2 level teaspoonfuls of 
sugar. This should be given in seven feedings. 

At 1 week the average child requires 6 ounces of milk daily, which 
should be diluted with 10 ounces of water. To this should be added 
1^ even tablespoonfuls of sugar and 1 ounce of lime water. ITiis 

1 " Save the Babies," prepared for use in Baby Health Conferences for tbt 
Committee on Public Health Education Among Women, by Drs. L. Emmett Hoh 
and Henry L. K. Shaw. Council on Health and Public Instruction. Americsa 
Medical Association. 



INFANT FEEDING 441 

should be given in eeven feedingH. The milk should be increaeed by 
«>ne-halt ounce about every four days. The water should be increased 
by one-half ounce every eight days. 

At 3 months the average child requires 16 ouncea of milk daily, 
which ahould be diluted with 16 ounces of water. To this should 
be added 3 tablespoonfula of sugar and 2 ounces of lima wuteV. Thia 
should be given in uix feedings. The milk should be increased by 
one-half ounce every six days. The water should be reduced by one- 
half ounce about every two weeks. 

At 6 ihontha the average child requires 24 ounces of milk daily, 
■which should be diluted with 12 ounces of water. To this should be 
added 2 ounces of lime water and 3 even tableapoonfuis of sugar. 
This should be given in five feedinga, Tlie amount of milk should 
be increased by one-half ounce every week. The milk should be 
increased only if the child is hun^y and digesting his food well. It 
should not be increased unlesfT h^ is hungry, nor If he is suffering 
from indigestion even though he aefelns hungry. 

At 9 months the average cbild requires 30 ounces of milk daily, 
which should be diluted with 10 ounces of water. To this should be 
added 2 even tablespoonfuls of sugar and 2 ounees of lime water. This 
should be given In five feedings. The sugar added may be milk sugar 
or if this cannot be obtained cane (granulated) sugar or maltose 
(malt sugarj. At drat plain water should be used to dilute the milk. 

At 3 months, sometimes earlier, a weak barley water may be used 
in the place of plain water; it is made of one-half level tablespoonful 
of barley ilour to 16 ounces of water and cooked for 20 minutes. 

At 6 months the barley flour may be increased to H4 p^pu table- 
spoonfuls cooked in the 12 ounces of water. 

At months the barley flour may be increased to 3 level tablespoon- 
fuls cooked in the S ounces of water. 

Sugar is added to the food not to sweeten it but to fnmish 
a neeeasary foodstuff. Ordinarily it is much better to avoid 
using it. Physicians differ as to the best sugar for use in in- 
fant feeding. Malt sugar gives very good results, and several 
preparations which contain dextrin as well as maltose are 
on the market, but are expensive. Milk sugar is also expen- 
sive, and some physicians believe that it has a greater tendency 
to upset the baby. Cane sugar is the cheapest form of sugar, 
and many babies seem to digest it very well. One objection 
to the use of cane sugar is that the baby quickly becomes 
accnstomed to the sweet taste, making it difficult later to 
induce him to eat unsweetened foods. 



[ induce hi 



442 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



TOP MILK KETHOD IN INFANT PEEPING 
L. Emmett Holti 








ALL 
A% FAT 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. Chapin's 
dipper for re- 
moving the up^ 
The percentage of fat in diflferent lajrers per layers of 

of milk. milk. 



The top milk method has been greatly simplified by Dr. 
Holt and the following suggestions will be helpful in apply- 
ing it : 

^^ Milk bottled at dairies should be allowed to stand after 
it is received for at least two hours before removing the top- 
milk. This may be done with a siphon, spoon or small, 
special dipper ; pouring off is not accurate. 

It is unnecessary in practice to have a top-milk which 
contains more than 7 per cent, fat; while it is desirable at 
times to obtain milk which is practically fat-free. It is also 
desirable to know the percentage of fat that is obtained when 
one uses various quantities from the top or bottom of a quart 
of milk. These values are only approximate, but if the top- 
milk is carefully removed, are sufficiently accurate for practi- 
cal purposes. These may be obtained from average henl 
milk or very rich milk as given on page 444 (from 4% and 
5% milk). 

iHolt and Howland: "Diseases of Infancy and Ohildhood.*' D. Appleloi 
& Co., New York, 191*. 



INFANT FEEDING 



443 

















OB 








o o o o 




r-4 A 
I-H -^ 


>^s® 


IQ I-H 


o 

03 


O p p CO 

CO to oi oi 


^H 

C4 


2§ 

s 












oo 


><S'^ 


ao ^ 


C 


o o o o 
' 00 »o o -^ 

• • • 


o 

C4 


GC 


hH "^ 






(M to Ol (N 




O 

B 


i-H CO to 

1— 1 i-H 




C 


o o o to 

CO to 00 (N 
• • • • 


00 

I-H 


00 

•1 


> 






d to Ol 




o 

B 












CO 


H^ <N ^• 


^ ©1 


C 
©3 


o o o o 

Tj« O -^ I-H 
1 • • • • 

Ol CO C4 




to 

o 
B 




.;f5 




o o o 




0) 

4S 


l>H 




oi to • o 


to 


-M 


►> ^ a 


• 


o 


oi o : ^ 


CO 

I-H 










o o .to 




00 


'^oo 




c 


p to ; r>; 
► oi CO • ^ 


to 
to 


CO 

o 


^ I-H 


• 


04 


1 


^H 


B 








o o o 




CO 


& O ^ 

•^ I-H 




e 


00 to 'CO 

• • . * 

1 ^ CO : -H 


to 

I-H 


5 
B 








o o o 




00 


I-H 


.;^ 




CO o * ^ 


to 


^ 


2 00 o* 


• Ol 


e 


» ^ «o * ^ 


CO 


« s 


»-• I-H 


t 


Ol 


1 


I-H 


w 

& 




.;f5 




o o o 


to 


-g 


tl ^- w 


• 01 


e 


► I-H ?0 • ^ 

• 


<N 


^ <u 


" I-H 


• 


Ol 




I-H 


^ 








o o o 








.^ 




C4 I^ • o 


to 

• 


00 


M «o ^ 


• oi 


e 


► I-H lo ; 1-^ 


I-H 


(N rt 


I-H 


• 


ej 


1 


I-H 


ns 


r of formula 
ounces) . . . 
(ounces) .. 


(ounces) . 
of milk . . . 
tablespoons) 




r cent 

per cent. . 
per cent. . 
, per cent. 


a 
g 

CO 


1 
a 

1 


Numbei 
Milk ( 
Water 


1 Gruel 
Sugar 
(Even 


S 


Fat. pe 
Sugar, 
Starch. 
Protein 


0) 


1 



o 

5 
8 



s 



o 



444 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

From 1 quart 4% milk From 1 quart 5% milk 

Upper 16 oz. has 7% fat Upper 20 oz. 

" 20 " " 6% " " 24 " 

" 24 " " 5% " all the milk 

All the milk " 4% " Rest after removing top 2 a 
Rest after removing top 

2 oz. has 3% " " " *' " 3 ol 
" after removing top 

4 oz. has 2% " . " " *' " 5 oi. 
" after removing top 

8 oz. has 1% " " " " " 8 OL 

Fat-free milk can he obtained only hy the removal of the cream liy 
a separator. 

FORMULAS FROM WHOLE (4 PER CENT) MILK 

Giving Approximate Percentage Composition and Calorio Yalu 

Per Ounce 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt 

Two sets of formulas are used of which the second diffen 
from the first in having a larger fat percentage. The fii« 
set is given in full. Note table I Page 443. 

The second formula is sometimes substituted for the fiist 
after the first few weeks. The upper half of a quart bottk 
of milk, i.e. a 7 per cent, top-milk is substituted for whok 
milk. The child receives from a third to a fourth less milk 
than in the first formula. The second formula may be used 
up to the seventh or eighth month, when the child returns to 
whole milk with gruel additioa The second formula may be 
used by any child who can assimulate the increased fat pe^ 
centage. The top-milk formula should never be used for 
children who vomit or those with weak digestion. 

TOP MILK MODIFICATION 

The following table from Dr. Holt's book sliows the amount 
of food required by the average healthy baby at the gifen 
ages and the proper interval between feedings : 



INFANT FEEDING 



445 



TABLE II 
Schedule for Feeding Healthy Infanta During the First Year 







'm 












£- 












B )i^ 








Age 




3 . 

5, ^ 






• 




-2 


"^« 


00 


be 


-p £ 




Interva 
(hou 


Nights 
(after 


24 hou; 
numbei 


Amoun 
1 feedi 
oz. 


Amoun 
24 hou; 
oz. 


2d to 7th day 


3 


2 


7 


1-2 


7-14 


2d» 3d and 4th weeks 


3 


2 


7 


2%-4V2 


18-32 


2d and 3d months 


3 


2 


7 


SV2-5 


24-35 


4th and 6th months . . . 


3 


1 


6 


5-6 


30-36 


6th, 7thf and 8th months 


4 


1 


5 


6%-7V2 


32M»-37^i 


9th and lOth months . . 


4 


1 


5 


7-8 


35-40 


11th and 12th months . . 


4 


1 


•5 


8-9 


40-45 



The interval is reckoned from the beginning of one feeding 
to the beginning of the next. Large children with strong 
digestion may take the larger quantities, while small or weak 
infants should take the smaller amounts. If the baby either 
habitually regurgitates his food or leaves some milk in the 
bottle each time, the 'interval between feedings .should be in- 
creased. 

aXXPLE XETHOD 07 CALCTTLATING A MILK FORinTLA ON A 

BASIS 07 CALORIC REaUIREMENTS 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt 

This is based on the experience that an average healthy 
child requires about lYo oz. milk for each pound of body- 
weight. An infant weighing 10 pounds therefore requires 
15 oz. of milk in 24 hours. Its caloric requirements are 45 to 
the pound or 450 for a 10 lb. child. The milk alone supplies 
20 calories per oz. or 300 in all. To secure the additional 150 
fat, sugar or starch must be added. One ounce of sugar gives 
120 calories; 1^ oz. gives 150. The amount of diluent (wa- 
ter, etc.) to be added is calculated from the Yu\md requirement 



446 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



which is 3 oz. per pound for the early and 2 oz. for the later 
months. Thus if a 10 lb. child requires 30 oz. of fluid daily, 
15 oz. of water will have to be added to the 15 oz. of milk. 
The formula will therefore be as follows for a 10 lb, child: 



Milk 


15 oz. 


300 calories 


Sugar 


m oz. 


150 


Water 


15 oz. 


• • • 



Total 30 oz. 450 calories 

The 30 ounces should be taken in 7 feedings of 4^4 oz. each 
or in 6 feedings of 5 oz. each. 

TABLE ni 
Approximate Calorie Requirements 

1 month 400 7 feedings 4^^ oz. Table i Formula HI 

2 months 500 7 " 4% " « « « IV 

3 " 660 7 " 5 « «« «« a V 

6 " 640 5 " 7% " « « « Vm 

9 " 740 5 ** 7% " ** « « jX 

PEEPARATION 07 THE FOOD ♦ 
Home Modification 

Everything that is to be used in the preparation of the 
baby^s food, including the hands and clothing of the mother 
01 nurse, must be absolutely clean. To clean the utensils 
they should be boiled in the large kettle for 15 minutes just 
before using. 

Utensils. Enameled ware or aluminum utensils are the 
safest kind to use, since they are most readily kept clean. 
They should be used exclusively for this purpose. The fol- 
lowing articles will be found convenient : 

As many nursing bottles as there are feedings in one day. 

A nipple for each bottle. 

A new clean cork stopper for each bottle or rubber cover. 

A bottle brush. 

A graduated measuring glass. 

A 2-quart pitcher. 



INFANT FEEDING 447 

A long-handled spoon for stirring the food. A pail or ket- 
tle for pasteurizing the milk and sterilizing the utensils. A 
fork. A tablespoon. A double boiler for cooking cereals. 
A clinical thormomeler. A bath thermometer. The frame 
being wood, which permits the thermometer to float. A milk 
thermometer. 

Bottles. The best nursing bottle is the one which affords 
the least harbor for germs. An 8-ounce cylindrical bottle 
having the scale in ounces blown in the side is most con- 
venient, as it fits readily into the ice box and the pasteurizer. 
Nursing bottles with a small long neck are difficult to clean 
and require a brush, which must also be kept dean. If the 
neck is short, sloping gradually into the shoulder the construc- 
tion is better than bottles with long necks, or abrupt shoulder. 
Nursing bottles have influence on baby mortality ; therefore, 
mothers sliould use the nursing bottle which is safest for the 
baby. 

CASE OF BOTTIES * 

New bottles should be annealed by placing them on the 
stove in a dishpan of cold water and leaving them to boU for 
80 minutes. Allow them to stay in the water until it is cold. 
Bottles tiius treated will not readily break when tilled with 
boiling water or when the food is being cooked in them. 

Each"bottle should be emptied as soon as the baby has fin- 
ished nursing, then rinsed with cold water and left standing, 
filled with water, until the bottles for one day's feedings have 
all been used. At a convenient time, scrub all the bottles 
with hot soapsuds, using the bottle brush over every part of 
the inside. Then rinse them tiioroughly through several 
waters and put them in a kettle of water over the fire. AVhen 
the water has boiled for 15 minutes the bottles will be steril- 
ized. 

Nipples. A conical nipple ^ is best, since it can be readily 
turned inside out to be cleaned. Nipples attached to long 
rubber tnbes should never be used, as it is impossible to clean 




448 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

them. They are so dangerous to infant health and life that 
the sale of them ought to be prohibited by law. The hole in 
the nipple should be just large enough so that when the filled 
bottle is held upside down the milk drops rapidly. If the hole 
is large enough so that the milk runs in a stream^ the baby 
will take his food too fast. 

Care of Nipples. Nipples need special care. If allowed 
to soak in water when not in use the rubber quickly becomes 
spongy and disintegrates, the hole grows larger and larger, 
and the nipple is soon unfit for use. 

Immediately after the feeding remove the nipple and rinse 
with cold or warm (not hot) water. Rub the outside with 
a little common salt to remove the milk, turn the nipple in- 
side out, rinse, and rub with salt; rinse again and boil for 
five minutes. The nipple will dry at once when removed 
from the boiling water. Place in a dry glass jar which has 
been boiled and screw the cover on tight. Keep from the 
light and rinse again in boiled water just before using. 

It is wise always to have extra nipples prepared, as they 
are subject to many accidents. 

How to Prepare the Feedings. Take the milk bottle out 
of the ice box, rinse with boiled water, and wipe the top with 
a clean towel. Next remove the paper cap with the fork 
which has just been boiled. Then pour out enough milk for 
the day's feedings, measuring the amount in the glaSs grad- 
uate, and empty it into the pitcher. Measure the required 
amount of water (using cold boiled water) in -the same war 
and add to the milk. Measure the sugar and lime water; add 
these to the milk and water and stir well. Then take as 
many bottles as there are to be feedings in 24 hours, and fill 
them exactly to the proper depth according to the scale blown 
in the bottle. If the materials have been carefullv measured, 
the bottles will be filled to equal depth. Close with new, 
clean bottle corks in preference to wads of cotton,^ and pa5- 



INFANT FEEDING 449 

teurize or sterilize the feedings thus prepared in accordance 
with directions that follow. 

Pasteurizing. ThiB procesa consists in heating the milk 
to 145 degrees, holding it there ior some time (20 to 30 min- 
utes), and then cooling it rapidly to 50 degrees. The uae 
of one of the excellent pasteurizers and sterilizers in the 
market greatly simpliiies this part of the work, but satis- 
factory results can be attained by the use of an ordinary pail 
or kettle. A convenient method for home pasteurizing is as 
follows ; 

Put a gallon (4 quarts) of water on the stove in a kettle. 
When the water is boiling hard, remove the kettle from the 
stove to a table and allow it to stand uncovered for 10 min- 
utes; then put the filled and loosely corked bottles into the 
water, cover the kettle, and allow it to stand covered for half 
an hour. At the end of this time remove the bottles, cool 
rapidly under running water, and put in the ice bos until 
needed. Do not uncork the bottle from the time it is first 
closed until the baby is to be fed. 

Boiling. Fill the bottles and stand them in a kettle of 
water over the fire. When the water has boiled three-quarters 
of an hour the milk will have been sufficiently heated; or, 
when more convenient, the milk may be simply boiled in a. 
clean saucepan for three minutes, poured into sterilized bot- 
tles, and then cooled rapidly in running water. 

Note: It is well to put a wooden rack at the bottom of 
the receptacle in which nursing bottles are placed. This 
will protect the bottles from contact with the iron receptacle^ 
or tin, whatever is used, and prevent breakage. 

HOW TO GIVE THE BABT THE BOTTLE « 

When it is time to feed the baby take the cold bottle from 
the ice; do not pour out the milk, but place the bottle, still 
corked, in a vessel of warm water, having the water cover 
the bottle above the milk line, and allow the water to heat. 
Do not allow the water to boil, as that will make the milk 



450 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

too hot. To test the temperature of the milk, open the bot- 
tle and drop a little milk on the inner surface of the arm. 
If it feels comfortably warm to the mother's skin it will be 
right for the baby. If it has been made too hot, cool the 
bottle imder rmining water. The mother should never pm 
the nipple in her own mouth to test the temperature of the 
milk, as an infection, such as a *^ cold,'' noiight easily be con- 
veyed in this way from mother to baby. Put on one of the 
sterile nipples from the jar. Handle the nipple only by the 
neck, and do not touch the pari; which is to go into the babys 
mouth. 

Hold the baby on the left arm in the same position as for 
breast feeding. The bottle should be held by the mother 
or nurse throughout the feeding. It must be presented to 
the baby at such an angle that the neck of the bottle is kept 
continually filled and the baby is able to grasp the nipple 
squarely. The feeding should be finished in 20 minutes. If 
the baby eats greedily, withdraw the nipple for a moment 
several times during the feeding. If he is sleepy, keep him 
Awake until the bottle is finished. If, in spite of this he 
fiills asleep, remove the bottle and do not give another until 
iho next feeding time. Babies hke to nurse a little, then 
jilocp a little, then take the bottle again ; but this should not 
bo allowed, as it unduly prolongs the feeding. 

VORICAX FEEDING ♦ 

If the baby has been breast fed for a while and is then put 
>'C, ^vws' milk, it is wise, until he has become somewhat 
>»,vv:ii:v^med to the new food, to use a weaker mixture at first 
• -vjtv. The one indicated for that age. The food can be 
^v.vi-^^heneil eyery few days if necessary until it suits his 
.»^^^\ l! the baby shows any signs of disturbed digestion it 
vv >• .Nt^ !v^ renirn at once to the weaker food until he is quite 
^v^. %^5*^.i^ ; if he seems satisfied, is gaining from 4 to 6 ounces 
w ^v\A^ N^vti not vomit, and has normal stools, it is reason- 
v,>.N .\^C;fci^ that the food is of the right strength and quan- 



.1 . « 



INFANT FEEDING 451 

UHBEKrEEDIITQ * 

Ab a rule, babies are overfed rather than underfed. But 
if the baby cries as soon as the bottle is taken away, aud 
again before the nest feeding time, a careful increase may 
be made day by day toward a stronger mixture, stopping at 
a point where he is satisfied. 

OVERFEED IBQ « 
If the baby sleeps restlessly, vomits his food, or has loose 
bowel movements, it usually indicates that he is being fed 
too much, too often, or that his food is stronger than he can 
digest. If the baby is breast fed, the interval between nurs- 
ings should be lengthened to 4 hours, as a first measure. It 
is wise to see the doctor, when possible. For bottle-fed babies 
the amount of the day's feeding may be decreased by using 
one-half of the usual contents of each bottle until the dis- 
turbance has subsided. 

ORJHEINO WATER * 

The baby needs plenty of cool, unsweetened water to drink. 
It is safe to boil all the drinking water for a baby, which 
should be given to a young baby lukewarm, never ice cold. 
Never put sugar or anything else in it. Offer it to the baby 
between feedings; in summer especially he needs to drink 
frequently. A " runabout " baby is constantly exercising 
while awake and requires a great deal of water. Fretful 
babies, especially those who are cutting teeth, are often quieted 
by a cool drink, 

FEELING OF 01»ER IHTAITTS 
Some general rules : 

1. Unless a child has loose bowels, he should be gi^en from 
1 to 3 tablespoonfuls of orange juice once a day after he is 
about 6 or 6 months old. Up to the time he doubles his 
weight, he has enough iron stored in his body for his needs, 
but after that he needs iron-bearing food. 

2. Do not feed him beef juice, beef tea, or broths. The 



45^ DIET LS SPECIAL COXDITIOSS 

jirsi: two psrtieixLirly, szi& too high in fl^Tor, and tend to 
porrefaetion in the Isrge intestme. 

3. After the twelftli montk there is no adyantage in con- 
tfniTTng' nLQtheris milk: wiiicfi bj tiiat time has deterioratei 
ArtTTTiMal food shfloJd be gr«iaaIlT substituted, and a single 
ineal fed from time ts> time fnnn the bottle. A babv 9 
months old may at tirst have to try a formula of cow^s milk 
made for a i^hrld 6 montis old wbo has been fed artificiallv 

* 

fp3m. tile lirst : and even a more dilate mixture may be neces- 
sarr for a while. 

-L The transition period eomes between the tenth and 
fourteenth month. Milk is still tiie chief food during the 
second year, bat the baby m.iist have in addition, iron from 
the yolk of egg, and from orange juice or prune pulp: he 
m^L^t also have food for deTeloping chewing muscles and 
teeth, such as stale bread, toasted, and zwieback. He maT 
also have thoroughly cooked, strained cereal, preferablv oat- 
meal. Other solid food should not be given during the sec- 
ond Tear. 

-5. Feedings must be regular: the digestive tract responds 

to good eating habits. 

Good hours for meals are : 

First feeding 6.30- 7 a. m. 

Mid-morning feeding 9.30-10 a. m. 

>ooa feeding 11.30-12 a. m. 

Afternoon feeding 2.30- 3 p. m. 

Evening feeding » — 5.30 p. m. 

^ti^ at six o'clock. 

6. During the third year milk is still one of the most 
important of the child^s foods, and a quart should be allowed. 
1 1 reaU need no longer be strained, if thoroughly cooked : the 
wliole egg may be given, although the yolk is still the more 
valuAbte ^>art : stale bread is still used, but crackers — graham 
or Tiuwias — may be substituted in certain meals. Fruit 
jui<.\\ aud vlru\l fruits including raisins, dates, and figs are 
valuable, a^i arv^ green vegetables, such as spinach, peas, and 
varrv^t^i, lUik<\l jK>tato may also be given. 



INFANT FEEDING 453 

7. In the fourth year, vegetahlea and fruits need not be 
strained, and cream may be added to the vegetables. Cab- 
bage, cauliflower, and lettuce must not be given, nor should 
any vieat be fed at this age. It is not desirable to give it 
until the child is 7 or S years old. 

8, Never give the baby or young child, cakes, candy, dough- 
nuts, pastry, fresh breads, griddlecakes, sirups or molasses, 
pork or meat of any kind, bananas or any overripe fruit, 
pickles, tea, coffee, soda water, wine, cider, beer, nor tastes 
of the family meals. If this is begun, he will soon demand 
B, taste of everything he sees, and his appetite for the simple 
diet which is essential at this age will be quickly destroyed. 

WBAHIHG * 

Weaning is the process wherehy the baby is gradually de- 
prived of breast milk. It should proceed slowly, one-bottle 
feeding being substituted for one breast feeding during the 
day for some time, then two bottles, and so on until all breast 
feeding has been done away with and the baby is entirely 
weaned. In order that this change may be accomplished with 
as little disturbance as possible, one bottle feeding may he 
given to the baby in 24 hours as early as the fifth or sixth 
month. This will hardly be sufEcient to upset the baby's 
digestion and yet will serve to accustom him to the taste of 
strange food and to the use of the bottle and to begin the 
education of the stomach in dealing with new materials. 

When to Wean. In most cases the baby should be weaned 
by the end of the first year, and in some cases from one to 
three. months earlier, depending largely upon tlie health of 
the baby, the amount and quality of the breast milk, and upon 
the time of the year. It is unwise to wean the baby in the 
heat of summer or when infant illness of any sort is epidemic. 
It has been proved over and over again that breast milk will 
save a sick baby's life and restore him to health after the 
strain of a long hot summer, and that often there is no other 
food that can be relied upon to accomplish the same result. 




454 DIET IX SPECIAL COXniTIOXS 

Therefore, eren thoa^ the breast milk must be supplemented 
with one or seTenl bottks, it is wise to nurse the baby througii 
the smnmer so that the breasts will not cease entirelv to se- 
crete and may be called on in an energency. If the "baby L? 
weaned at 10 months or earlier he may be fed by bottle: ii 
not mitil the end of the year, he may be taught to drink from 
a glass or cup directly. 

If drinking water has been given by means of a nursing 
bottle during much of the first year, the baby will take bis 
food in the same way the more readily. A healthy infant 
weaned at 9 months should begin with the food for an infant 
of 4 or 5 months. If he digests this mixture well, tbe 
strength can be increased until within two or three weeks 
he i^ taking the food full strength. Increase in the diet 
should be made with special caution at the beginning of 
summer or during the heat, when there is great danger of 
inducing diarrhea. H is far better to keep the baby on rather 
a low diet, even without increasing his weight, than to upset 
the intestinal tract by overfeeding. If, after trying a new 
food, vomiting occurs or the stools show that there is indi- 
gestion, it is always best to return to the weaker food until 
the disturbance has subsided. 

Weaning from the Bottle. An artificially fed infant is 
weaned from the bottle by beginning at 10 months to sub- 
stitute one feeding a day from the spoon or cup for one bottle 
feeding, gradually increasing the number of such feedings 
until the baby is weaned, usually by the thirteenth month. 
The mother will find it a convenience to continue the bottle 
for the night feedings as long as necessary. 



CHAPTER XXII 
THE FEEDING 01 TOTTNG CHILDEEN 

Whether the child be fed at the breast or witli the bottle, 
the period from the tenth to the fifteenth month ia usually 
one of transition. For the breast-fed baby it may be more 
critical than for the artifieiaUy fed; but the former should 
ordinariiy have been growing used to a certain proportion 
of cow's milk in his diet By the fifth or sixth month iron- 
bearing foods such as yolk of egg and orange juice should 
be added to the diet. The white of egg may be used if the 
baby cannot take milk. By the ninth month thoroughly 
cooked gruel may be added to the milk diet. 

Throughout tne growing period the child should have at 
least a quart of milk a day. When he is a year old, he may 
have, in addition to the milk, strained cereals, stale bread, 
toast or zweiback, soft-cooked egg {especially the yolk), 
fruit juice or fruit pulp, such as orange juice and prune 
pulp. Such a diet should continue well through the sec- 
ond year. By the end of that time well-cooked, strained 
or finely mashed vegetables, such as baked potato, spinach, 
carrots, and peas, may be added. It is no longer necessary 
to strain the cereals if they are thoroughly cooked. Stale 
bread is still given, but crackers such as graham and Uneedas 
may he substituted in certain meals. Fruits should be given 
daily, and raisins, dates, and figs are valuable additions to 
those already named. If a distaste for milk arises, the va- 
riety of other foods should be cut down, and every effort made 
to lead the chOd back to it. In fact there should be little 
variety up to the fifth year. During the fourth year it is 
unnecessary to strain vegetables and fruits. Cream may be 
455 



456 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

added to the vegetables. Meat is very undesirable for yoimg 
children, and should not be given until about the sevenft 
year, since protein is obtainable in more easily digested forms 
from milk and eggs. Sweet fruits, such as prunes, dates, and 
figs, are much better than pure sugar, since they contain val- 
uable mineral constituents, and are less likely to destroy the 
taste for other proper food. 

Tea, coffee, beer, and even cocoa except occasionally and 
very weak, should be prohibited. The child should no more 
expect to eat the same food as an adult than to dress like one. 
But his diet should be limited in quality rather than quantity, 
as he requires much more in proportion than an adult on 
account of his requirements for growth and his great activity. 
Up to five years of age, about eighty calories per kilograin 
seems to be desirable. 

A well-known dispensary sends out printed instructions for 
the people of its neighborhood, prohibiting all eating between 
meals, and forbidding all pastry, coffee, tea, alcoholics and 
carbonated drinks, in the case of children of any age. 

Those under seven years of age are allowed no meats nor 
fish, no hot bread, griddlecakes, or nuts, no corn, cucimibers, 
egg plant, nor cabbage. 

For those under four years no stews, tomatoes, bananas, 
and fruit sparingly in hot weather. 

Children up to the age of eighteen months are to be limited 
entirely to milk, orange juice, and cooked and strained cereals : 
with, in exceptional cases, zwieback, biscuit and soft-cooked 
eggs. 

Such education means much for the development of hardy 
men and women. Undernutrition is not due alone to pov- 
erty; much of it comes from ignorance. 

OENEKAL KITLES FOB FEEDING YOTTNO CHILDKEK 

Thompson i 

1. Allow time for meals. 

2. See that the food is thoroughly masticated. 

1 W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



TEE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 457 

3. Do no allow nibbling between meals. 

4. Do not tempt the child with the sight of rich and in- 
digestible food. 

5. Do not force the child to eat against his will, but exam- 
ine the mouth, which may be sore from erupting teeth; and 
examine the food, which may not be properly cooked or 
flavored. If good food is refused from peevishness merely, 
remove it and do not offer it again before the next time. 

6. In acute illness reduce and dilute the food at once. 

Table of Comparisons, Food Required by Child and Man 

A child under 2 requires 0.3 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 3 to 5 requires 0.4 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 6 to 9 requires 0.5 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 10 to 13 requires 0.6 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A girl of 14 to 16 requires 0.7 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A boy of 14 to 16 requires 0.8 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

Prof. W. O. Atwateb. 



Table Showing Increase of Calories Required for a 


Growing Child 








Carbo- 




Age. 


Pboteix. 


Fat. 


hydrates 


Calories. 


years. 


grammes. 


grammes. 


grammes. 




1% 


42.5 


35.0 


100 


909.7 


2 


45.5 


36.0 


110 


972.4 


3 


50.0 


38.0 


120 


1050.4 


4 


63.0 


41.5 


135 


1156.8 


5 


66.0 


43.0 


145 


1224.0 


8 to 9 


60.0 


44.0 


150 


1270.0 


12 to 13 


72.0 


47.0 


245 


1736.8 


14 to 15 


79.0 


48.0 


270 


1877.3 



Hutchison, p. 453. Schroedeb, Archiv, fiir Hygiene, iv. 39, 1886. 

DIETARIES FOR YOXTNO CHILDREN 

Diet for the second year. — 900-1200 Calories per day: 
7 A.M. Orange juice, 2 tablespoonfuls (1 ounce). 

Cereal — oatmeal strained, 4-5 tablespoonfuls. 



458 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Bread toasted, one thin slice. 
Milk, 1 cup (for cereal and to drink). 
9:30-10 A.M. Milk, % cup. 

Zweiback, 3 pieces. 
11:30-12 M. Bread, stale, 1 slice. 

Yolk of egg (cooked soft and mixed with breaid 

crumbs ) . 
Milk, 1 cup. 
2:30-3 P.M. Orange juice, 2 tablespoonfuls. 

Zweiback, 2 pieces. 
5-6:30 P.M. Bread toasted and dipped in milk, 2 thin slices. 

Milk, 1% cups. 
Diet for third year. — 1300 Calories (at least) per day. 

7 A. M. Cream of Wheat, with 2-3 dates, 5-6 tablespoonfuls. 
Bread toasted, one slice, with 
Egg, soft-cooked. 
Milk, 1 cup. 

9:30-10 A.M. Graham crackers, 4 (small). 

Milk, % cup. 

11:30-12 M. Potato, baked and mashed. 

Peas, carrots, with cream added. 

Bread, 1 thin slice. 

Milk, y2 cup. 
2:30-3 P.M. Uneeda Biscuits, 2. 

Milk, % cup. 

Fig, 1. 
5 : 30-6 P. M. Bread, 2 slices toasted. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Diet for fourth to seventh years. — 1400-1800 Calories per day. 
Breakfast. — Every day: 

A mild fruit: as orange, fresh ripe or baked apple, stewed 
prunes. 

A well-cooked cereal : oatmeal should be given preference ; Wheat- 
ena, hominy grits may be introduced for variety, and occa- 
sionally a ready-to-eat cereal, especially in the summer. 

A generous supply of milk should be served with any of theae, 
but no sugar need be added. 

Stale bread: as toast, zweiback, very crusty rolls baked a second 
time after they are at least a day old. These help to develop 
chewing habits. 

Milk to drink : never very cold, and may be served hot on winter 
mornings. Weak cocoa may also be given. 
Mid-morning Luncheon: 

Crackers: such as graham, whole wheat, Uneeda. 

Fruit: ripe apple, fig, dates, or raisins. 



THE FEEDINB OF YOVNa CHILDREN 459 

Tioon Meat: ■. 

Soup: made with milk and vegetable juice, or pulp. 

An egg: dropped OD toast, or poached, or made into an omelet, 

but never fried. 
A green vegetable: of mild Qavor, maahed or flnelf chopped. 
Spinach (rich in iron), carrots, peae. Potato, and asparagua 
tips are all valuable. 

Since it is undesirable for tiie child under seven or eigM 
years to have meat, much of the variety in the diet conies 
through the wise choice and careful cooking of vegetables. 
By forming this good eating hahit the child is furnished with 
building material while he is young, and with a means of 
keeping the body in good condition as he grows older. 
Deisert : 

Let this be kept simple, as: rice and milk, cereal puddings, baked 
custard, junket, and blanc mange. Frozen creams are also 
allowed, but milk sberbets are better than sweet creama. 
Afternoon luncheon: 

Crackers, or sponge cake. 
Milk. 

Fruit, or baked custard. 
Supper; 

This Tai!S.\ should be veiy simple up to the eighth or ninth year, 

and served not later than sis. o'clock. 
Bread and milk. 
Milk toast. 
Creamy egg on toast. 

Children from two to five years of age thrive best with 
about 105?! protein in the total food. If the protein is in- 
creased beyond \5%, there is a direct rise in heat output. 
There ia, furthermore, interference with the body's ability 
to store protein for tissue. Beef juice and meats should be 
kept out of the diet for the following reasons : their flavor is 
too high and tends to throw bland foods into disfavor ; meats 
are more expensive than other foods furnishing protein, such 
as milk and eggs, and they tend to putrefaction in the large 
intestine. CJiildren are more sensitive than adults to putre- 
factive organisms. 

As soon as the child begins going to school, the tendency 
to slight breakfast must be guarded against carefully. The 



460 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

results of carelessness with this meal are lack of appetite, 
anaemia, and stunted growth. A regular schedule for meals 
is an essential to good digestion. The morning and after- 
noon luncheons must be simple: no other nibbling between 
meals should be allowed. 

After the sixth or seventh year sugar may be given — candy, 
very simple, after meals, never between meals. If the extri 
meals always consist of only one or two simple foods, they 
will be naturally discontinued when the child no longer feeb 
hungry for them ; yet while there is really need of extra fuel, 
that need will be met. 

GENERAL PKINCIPLES OF FEEDING SICK CHILDREN 

Since this work has been chiefly devoted, as the title im- 
plies, to the relationship between diet and disease, the amount 
of space given to the feeding of presumably normal children 
may occasion some wonderment. But the chief difference be- 
tween the dietetics of the infant and adult lies in the fact that 
the bottle infant and the weanling, nominally healthy, have 
to be dieted to prevent disease. This has now come to be 
realized on all sides. In classic and mediaeval times an infant 
which could not get breast milk usually perished. The wean- 
ing period was somewhat less trying, but millions of children 
must have succumbed to the ordeal of changing t^ solid food. 
Improvement in feeding means a direct lessening of infant 
mortality, as modem statistics testify. 

Colic and Vomiting (Eegurgitation) are almost physiolog- 
ical, so common is their occurrence; they do not arise from 
any single cause, and the fact that breast-fed infants suffer 
almost as frequently as the bottle-fed, often more so, show? 
that such ailments are not entirely preventable by care in feel- 
ing. In breast-fed children, these symptoms are best con- 
trolled by lengthening the period between feedings. In bottle- 
fed children, besides lengthening the nursing interval, special 
pains should be taken in the modification of the milk. These 
symptoms may occur quite independently of diet. Chilling 
of the body surface, coughing, improper handling, a too snug 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 461 

binder, etc., may be the true cause of the trouble. Even in 
breast-fed infants under ideal conditions, the mother's milk 
may not be well-borne. It may in fact be bo rich in fat and 
protein as to require dilution; which of course iu. the breast- 
fed may be accomplished only by giving the infant water be- 
fore or after nursing. 

Gavage. Of late years the use of the stomach sound in 
feeding sick nurslings has come into considerable vogue in 
foundling asylums and the like. This resource has a con- 
siderable range of application. Thus in premature infanta 
(which do not nurse readily) ; in all infants which refuse to 
nurse ; and in infants sick from "any cause, especially when the 
nerve centers, swallowing oc breathing apparatus are involved, 
or when continuous vomiting is present, the use of the stom- 
ach tube may save life. Very young babies are fed much 
more readily than older ones, since they are less liab!e to 
fright. The tube used is a soft rubber catheter, which is 
coupled with a small funnel. The catheter is first passed 
down tlie gullet. In order to have plenty of leeway, it is an 
advantage to unite the catheter to a second rubber tube with 
a piece of glass tubing. The second rubber tube is then 
coupled to the funnel. If the case be one of vomiting, it ia 
often necessary to wash out the stomach before the introduc- 
tion of nourisliment, however given. The term lavage, used 
for washing out the etonmch, must not he confounded with 
gavage, which means literally forced feeding. Complete de- 
tails will be found in works on obstetrics and obstetric nurs- 
ing. Edgar says of gavage, that the infant to be fed should 
lie on its back in the nurse's arms, its own arms held to its 
sides, while an e.vtra assistant steadies the head. The tube 
having been passed, the modified milk or other nutriment is 
poured into the funnel, and as the latter empties itself the 
tube is pinched to prevent escape. While regurgitation may 
occur and necessitate a repetition of the act, it very often 
happens that food taken in this manner is much better re- 
tained than if taken by nursing the breast or bottle. The 
exertion required by nursing, the swallowing of air, etc., are 



462 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

avoided in gavage. To recapitulate, the conditions in which 
gavage has been found life saving, are given by Edgar in the 
following order : 

Prematurity (especially in incubator babies) ; after opera- 
tions on the nose and throat ; habitual vomiting ; pneumonia, 
diphtheria and scarlet fever. The jaws of the nursling can 
usually be separated to receive the gavage-tube. But if there 
is inflammation of the mouth or locking of the jaws (or if 
intubation has been required for diphtheritic cases) it may be 
necessary to resort to nasal feeding (see p. 79). 

Diarrhoda. Under this familiar term, which includes the 
mildest looseness of the bowels as well as the severest symp- 
toms of cholera and dysentery, may be included the greater 
part of the morbidity of the nursling. Death certificates of 
babies, especially in summer months, chiefly specify this canse. 
The diarrhoea makes itself felt in a variety of ways. If con- 
joined with vomiting we may term it a gastro-enteritis, and 
state that a given child died from inability to profit by its 
nourishment. But many infants succumb, not because their 
nourishment is rejected outright, but rather from the fact that 
it is not utilized. We can understand death when due to vio- 
lent vomiting and diarrhoea; but the slow death from non- 
utilization of food, such as occurs so extensively in bottle-fed 
tenement house children, still remains largely a ni3'8tery, which 
has been explained in the most diverse ways. The amount 
and character of gastro-intestinal disturbance present is not 
sufficient, in many cases at least, to explain the total failure 
of nutrition. It is in the effort to combat this condition that 
so many methods of feeding have come into use. As in all 
stubborn and imperfectly understood conditions, with a bad 
outlook for recovery, many substances have been tested, and 
many recoveries have been recorded. If a threatening diar- 
rhoea appears, with or without vomiting, the best course t'"> 
pursue at first seems to be fasting. Sterile water may be al- 
lowed but milk is prohibited. It is believed by some au- 
thorities that cow's milk or the milk of any animal is poison- 
ous in these cases. Others would state that milk is dangerous 



TEE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 463 

because of one or another solid ingredient, or because it 
furnishes a culture medium for germa. In any case some pre- 
digested food like panopepton, or Bome cereal decoction like 
rice or barley water seema better borne. It may also be ad- 
visable at this atuge to use certain drugs to control vomiting. 
Wben the latter has ceaaed for twenty-four hours, normal feed- 
ing may be cautiously reaumed. The treatment of theae eases 
taxes the utmost resources of the physician, and the mortality 
is enormous. The nurse's duties lie rather in the direction 
of prevention; but if these cases develop, rest of the stomaeh 
is imperative at tirst and milk must not be resumed until all 
symptoms are passed. Diarrhcea, dysentery and all gastro- 
intestinal troubles in older children are dieted on the same 
principles as are the same affections in adults. 

Constipation in nuTBlings is a condition diEGcult to over- 
come entirely by diet. The familiar remedies are sugar and 
cream, an excess of either of which, over dietetic requirements, 
may loosen the bowels. A prescription of laboratory milk 
may meet this obstacle, or the corresponding home modifica- 
tion. Fruit juices, oatmeal gruel, etc., are sometimes em- 
ployed. 

Marasmus and Rickets are two conditions generally in- 
cluded under diseases amenable to diet. There is no special 
regimen, however, for such affections: a full balanced diet 
cannot be improved on. Infantile Scurvy should be named in 
the same connection, and is the result of an unbalanced diet 
or absence of vitaminea. Orange juice and a change in the 
diet will usually cure the disease promptly. 



CHAPTER XXm 

-THE SEDEHTABT— THE AGED 



• x^ ^ ^* » t^ n : I :*M A I ) :•« ; 



Tbf XTv-^^iiur vanA aeieds extra protein food for the build- 
::iix: nf TCi-trr^iJiKm azkd n suffidencr of salts for the rapidly 
fv^CTr::Ty: xi<5:iie>: «niilr sdts for bones^ iron for blood, phos- 
T\hnrB> fvic HKvcm? liasDe and its general influence on growth, 
<vxu::i«c frcim lije ax^Ttgje liberal mixed diet with milk, eggs* 
:-!v^ rn::i a2>5 xrne«i ii»?etiUes, so that no special plan of 
f ^vr.zu: :i> r^oxii^ K the adolescent leads a very active ex- 
:?<Q^::D^*r^ <*c?i:iT«i»eiii to htid labor in an adult, he will naturallt 
r^: ^:^ :Cv s^iw^ amwint of food with necessary reduction for 
^'^.c*:- X2ji ^cooe aUoinmee for e3[tra protein. Many ado- 
j^j;;»;'T-T<^ VinfTw, ai^ TiMT shiggish and lead inactive lives, and 
t^jwI ^rK\v;:T^w?«r)eiii to activity, with food in proportion to 
^> .^u^r^v. Aadu libe appetite is not always a safe guide. 
^,^;\ .£> fv^T prk: for the period of adolescence coincide? 
> :^ :V 5fw»>pn>eiit of *• hysterical '' tendencies which may 
:v r^ir,,:i>>^o.? ^y exv>e«sive or diminished craving for food 
MP' .::?x:t irA TV^ft^reiitV to the actual physical demands. Girls 
N>, ,. .\ V :ri:r»x\i c^xit of fad:^ An active adolescent may have 
>;;: >.::> ip;.v::Tc^ while a sluggish one may be a glutton, or 
". J^^ v\^r,:ir,.:£-v <5rink water. The perverted cravings for 
N;,>ts::ir>.v> of :':o n^jtritive value and without appetizing qual- 
;;\s >*>,v>. *^wnr.\auy this period, are well known. It is 
: \;:v^^r\^ :>iw?is3iry that the diet of this period be as care- 
:„V,\ v,r.vTx:<«t\5 ^i^ t>.at for the linle cliild. The food mu?t 
x\^r.:or,v, :o iV sl:^,itvt"s physical requirements, must be eaten 
^v^^A^j'-rrs a^.^v5 '.r.r,<i he administered with discretion, for a 
';^T)^y^ jVTvvnt^^ of fiwi aversions are acquired at this time, 
a:^J u i^ oj^s^^tial to ihe well-being of the individual, and tbe 

464 



r 



DIET FOR THE ADOLESCENT 465 

comfort of others, that his food habits be good. In college 
food ahoTild he prepared with reference to work. 

The energy requirements of this period are approzimately : j 
Photeis Caioeies Total Calobie8 
Age is Yeabs per Poukd peb Pound 

12-13 3 25-30 

14-17 20-25 

"This means that the total daily requirements for girls 
from fourteen to seventeen will be from 2200 to 3600 Calories ; 
for boys of the same age from 2500 to 3000 Calories. Very 
often by this time the full height will have been attained and 
the parents are surprised at the large consumption of food, 
thinking that growth has ceased. But growth is not merely 
a question of height. As already said, it involves laying on 
of muscle and fat, development of internal organs and a vigor- 
ous nervous system, and tbese demand food. Furthermore, 
muscular activity, especially out of doors^ is a great aid in 
muscle and nerve development, and the extra fuel required 
to support this activity should never be begrudged young peo- 
ple. Tor five or ten years after full height is reached their 
food eonsmuption will be considerably higher than that of 
adults of the same size. As long as they confine themselves 
to simple, nourishing foods they are not likely to overeat. 
Sometimes their expenditures in growth and activity exceed 
their assimilative powers. Especially is this true of those ' 
who grow very tall with great rapidity and indulge freely in 
active sports and dancing. To leave a balance in favor of 
the body it may be for a time necessary to curtail the activity 
somewhat — to insist on longer hours for rest and less violent 
exercise until substantial gains in weight and other signs of 
physical welfare show that the energy demands are not greater 
than the energy supply." 

" The daily menu list may well include such dishes as the 
f ollovring : 

I Uarh prscl) 
found In " Feedi 
Mnr Tork. 



I Mnr Tork. 



M _ 



^?^ 



JCnr IS SPECIAL coxditions 




white and black beu 

sia^etti with tomato sanee. 

com pudding, a 8tet 



v^^etable. 
ch daiv. 

of various kinds. 
oolx in combination witk 
baked pudding, sweet choeo- 



*>r i*-timiw: matl auMs ts> bt more substantial than for 
^.urssriir iUiiiiKaL la iie drr this will be the time for 
r^^cu'ttir nnnur; jX ^ Kicstiy it is more likely to be sop- 

SiC^ ^v* 3Ens: rntTi itsainst eilreines — too heavy a 
. itr ihr 2iie Jsa>£ rai tiw light on the other. Supper 
:i ii ;£iuiui5f im* sdhsCXTTal vmim dish as a rule. This 
:v i -ri-u-i stfonv. jj? s^ui^^esred for the younger children 
^.r^:^ s::^£ ,i:*:»^5*r^ i srrr oc ehowder, or a loaf of beans or 
> V .1 i ;r^-iai. rr r.Tcrir^ sauce. This with plenty of 
u i.r5 :uTtir. Sircm? s:?'*^ fruit and cookies, or a whole- 

■'-i-.:r^ Oil TT^'V •» drint will make a sufficientlr 






\. 



-\^. : -:..;>? XT V Ji5£ Soirn for the dietetics of the 

,^- -\^ .uiytl r^T Zx^d a technically sedentary 

A :v- . .:5^ . ,^ i ^^Jii ino^ini of energy, only standing 

f :t. V r^ :- *-v <-< >:crj: :r: ii<U5e just as in a person whose 

,vv ,\Y .: v,. -^^ ^cti^r-rii: xnd walking, little use may be 

. ,-. i- n'\'....Vt ir.c mrik muscles. A better distinc- 

N X\T-;v - .X.; o,v? xr-i ri-HJoor life, or quiet and active 

, \ X _ v,v^ V" V >5iv-;'rri^y -.v::^'»i:s lead both a quiescent and 

^ r Aw ,\^:v>\v. .: -.?.y in :he sitting posture. The less 

\^ ,.v;s.', ^^i^v ;-V \>^ tS-^ :^:\::.::^iiient for food. Excess of 

.,\\. s^>%^;' is^;;;^'. i»;^^,jir:,l< :> usuilly manifested by the putting 



DIET FOR TEE AGED 



F' on of flesh or by the development of indigestion or metabolic 
L disturbances. In theoiy there should be no such thing as a 
■ permissible diet for the sedentary, because no one should 
allow himself to lead a purely quiescent existence. It is pos- 
sible to compress a good deal of active exercise in a couple 
of hours of file twenty-four, so that the sedentary person passes 
virtually into the next class above, corresponding to light 
active labor extending through a number of hours. 

While individual estimates vary, it ia probable that 1600- 
3000 calories suffice for the average individual on the usual 
basis of 145 pounds veeight with the usual reduction for sex. 
As the sedentary person finds it difficult to digest heavy arti- 
cles of food, the food should be easily digestible. Fruit and 
succulent vegetables (salads) are usually well borne by sedeu- 
. tary people, as they induce daily evacuations of the bowels, 
and are not fattening. They are the reverse of condensed 
and highly nutritious foods. 

DIET FOB TEE AGES 

Ab there is a radical distinction between a person merely 
old in years and one who is actually senile, no dietary can 
be devised to suit the case of all those of advanced years. A 
man is technically old at sixty. In theory he should require 
less protein in proportion to carbohydrates than a younger 
man. Many people of both sexes, however, preserve their 
working capacity far into the sixties and even into the seven- 
ties. Many people can put on flesh up to tlie age of sixty, 
and it is very important that thoy do not do so. Their regi- 
men should be practically that of the corpulent. After the 
age of sixty the weight may remain at an equilibrium for some 
years, or with the advent of senile change, the flesh may be- 
gin to disappear, this loss being physiological. At this period 
less depends on the selection of food than on the quantity 
and thoroughness of mastication. An active, healthy man 
can preserve his condition by cutting down the amount of 
food greatly, and chewing it thoroughly. The demand for 
protein will very likely be satisfied with a small quantity. 



468 



DIET IX SPECIAL COXDITIOXS 



The total fuel requirement will depend upon whether the it 
dividual exercises or leads a sedentanr life. Sedentary elderlT 
people can subsist on very little food, and do not differ muci 
in this respect from middle-aged sedentary people. 

A senile person is practically an inralid, and his dietetic 
demands do not differ greatly from those of other invalid 
(aside from the convalescent). If the teeth are more or te 
useless, and mastication cannot be effected bv the gums, tte 
individual bec-omes a confirmed dyspeptic. The problem of 
starch digestion becomes a serious one. Milk can be used 
larorelv. 

In theory sugars could partially replace starches. An ex- 
cellent food under the circumstances is toasted bread, which 
may be dipped in coffee to soften it. In toast the starch be 
comes changed to dextrin, which is bet one step removed from 
sugar. TTell-cooked cereals, vegetables (potatoes, greens, etc.) 
and fruits may be used in small quantities in the expectation 
that they will be digested by the pancreatic juice. 

Special Begimen : As already suggested^ this cannot differ 
in kind from that of the confined invalid or dyspeptic. 

DIETi: Soup. — Nutritious soups, sucli as chicken or fish purfe. 
beef tea, mutton or chicken broth. Purees of all kinds. 

Fish. — White fish as sole, whiting, smelts, flounders, etc. 'best 
when boiled). 

Eggs. — Egg lightly cooked, or beaten up with milk, etc. 

Meats. — Young and tender chicken and game. Other tender mttti 
Potted chicken, game and other potted meats. Sweetbreads, bacoa 
grilled. 

Farinaceous. — Bread and butter (bread at least a dav old) to be 
soaked in tea or milk or water. Bread and milk, porridge and o«t- 
meal gruel. Puddings of ground rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago, mac*- 
roni. Prepared foods consisting of predigested starches. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes, carrots, spinach and other succulent vege- 
tables, stewed celery, boiled onions. 

Desserts. — Fruit jellies, stewed or baked fruit. Pulp of perfeitk 
ripe raw fruit in small quantity, farinaceous puddings. 

Liquids. — Milk in all forms, and with the addition of warm ViohT 
or warm water, fruit juice. 

1 Food suitable for the Aged According to Yeo. 



DIET FOR THE AGED 469 

AVERAGE WEIGHT OF OLD MEN AND WOMEN i 





Men 


Women 


Age in Yeabs 


Pounds 


Pounds 


60 


]44 


125 


70 


139 


125 


80 


135 


113 


90 


127 


109 



* " It is roughly estimated that the decrease in food require- 
ment due to old age, from the total fuel which would be 
required by an adult of the same degree of activity, is about 
10 per cent, between the ages of sixty and seventy; about 20 
per cent, between seventy and eighty; and about 30 per cent 
after that. In other words a man who at thirty requires per 
day 2000 Calories simply sitting at rest, will require under 
the same circumstances only about 1800 at seventy and only 
1600 at eighty. The ordinary activities of a man of thirty 
may raise his energy output to 3500 Calories per day, but few 
men of eighty could do sufficient muscular work to transform 
80 much additional fuel. Their lives are likely to be decidedly 
sedentary; hence 1600 to 1800 Calories will probably closely 
approximate their total daily expenditure, though no abso- 
lute rule can be laid down. In general, there is safety in 
abstemiousness; dangers of excess are greater than dangers 
of undernutrition.'^ 

1 From BnUetin No. 223, Office of Experiment Stations, U. S. Department 
of Arricultnre (calculated to pounds). 

2 Much practical information in reference to feeding the asred is to be found 
in *' Feeding the Family " by Dr. Mary Swartz Rose. The Macmillan Co., New 
York. 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



(Based on 74,162 accepted applicants for life ii 



— 


15-34 


=«. 


-"' 


..... 


"■" 


45-49 


50-54 6S-5B 


ao. 


«S4l 


5 ft. in. 

a in! 

11 In. 

6 ft. in. 


ISO 
IBT 
ISS 

1S4 
185 


135 

ITO 


1E9 
138 

176 


140 
170 


203 


i3e 

183 
IM 


15S 155 
163 183 

177 178 

1S3 183 
188 ISA 


Itl 


ill 
iffl 



(B.r«d<. 


58,855 accepted applicants for life inBorance-) 


i... 


i5.» 


.0-.4 


>"• 


>»•" 


8G-se 


'"' 


45-49 


..-=. 


55.6.;4^4 


i ft. 11 in 
5 ft. in 

1 in 

2 la 

3 in 




ii 


las 

132 


117 


118 

ia7 

137 
161 


ISl 

14a 

155 


JSfi 
149 


i 


as 

57 
170 


ill 1 1« 

« 1 };{ 



INDEX TO RECIPES 

AND 

GENERAL INDEX 



A Real Help 

Better 
Baking 



The 

absolute 

purity, uniform 

strength ana keepirg 

quality of Rumford make 

^^^^^^ cooking reeults most dependable. 

^^^ The food ia always wbolesome and 

of that fine, even texture, sought for by 

all good eooV.3. 

RUMFORD 

The Wholesome 

Baking Powder 

ia healthful, because it restores the nutritious proper- 
ties of which fine wheat flour has been deprived. 
It is economical because it does not cause waste of 
good material, and because of its reasonable coat. 

Rumford ia a scientific preparation, being the result 
of extended research by the celebrated chemist Prof. 
E. N, Horsf ord. for many years Professor of Chemist- 
ry in Harvard University. 

Ask na to mail you FREE, a copy o( "Th« 
Humfoni Way of Cocikery and Household 
EcQiiQmy." compiled br Ure. Janel H. BilL 
and Mrs. Chrisline Fredericli, EousehoM 
KSiciehcy Engineer, 

RUMFORD COMPANY. 
Providence, 
R. I. 




INDEX TO RECIPES 



A. 

Acid Bevebages . 
Acid Phosphate 
Acid Phosphate Whey- 
Apple Water 
Cream of Tartar Drink 
Currant Water 
Effervescent Lemonade 
Egg Lemonade 
Fruit Lemonade 
Fruit Punch 
Fruitade 
Grape Juice 

Lemonade 

Lithia 

Nectar . 

Water 
Irish Moss Lemonade 
Jelly and Ice 
Lactose Lemonade . 
Lemonade 
Lemon Whey 



(( 



(( 



ft 



tt 



Malted Milk Currant Jelly 114 



Malted Milk with Wine 

Orangeade 

Orangeade No. II . 

Pineapple Juice 

Pineapple Lemonade 

Rhubarb Water 

Soda or Effervescent Lem 

onade 

Tamarind Malted Milk 
Tamarind Water . 
Tea Punch .... 
Tutti Frutti Punch 
Wine Whey 
Acid Phospha^te (Hobs 

fobd's) 
Acid Phosphate Whey 



page 
110 
113 
113 
115 
114 
115 
111 
121 
111 
117 
112 
116 
112 
116 
116 
116 
112 
114 
111 
111 
113 



(( 



« 



It 



tt 



114 
112 
112 
113 
111 
115 

111 
116 
115 
116 
117 
113 

113 
113 
473 



page 
Albuminous Bevebages . 118 
Albumin Water ... 122 
Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 
Milk . . 122 
Orange . . 123 
Sherry . . 123 
Water . . 122 
Beef Egg-nog .... 120 
Coffee Egg-nog ... 120 

Egg Broth 118 

** Lemonade . .121 

Egg-nog 119 

Egg-nog No. II . . .119 

Egg and Brandy . .120 

" and Rum .... 120 

" and Wine .... 120 

Grape Yolk . . . .121 

" Juice and Egg . . 122 

Junket Egg-nog . .119 

Malted Milk and Egg . .121 

Mulled Wine .... 122 

Pineapple Egg-nog . 120 

Stokes* Mixture .121 

Albuminous Jellies .221 

Beef Jelly 222 

Calf's Foot Jelly . 221-222 

Chicken Broth Jelly . . 222 

Panopepton Jelly . . 208 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 

Wine Jelly . 206 

Apples 

Apple Cuban Style 

" Tapioca 

" Water . 

Baked Apples . 

Stewed Apples . 

Apbicot and Pbune 

Abb6wboot Gbuel 



. 280 

. 300 

. 116 

. 279 

. 279 

Sauce 280 

. . 238 



474 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



ASPABAGUS ON TOAST 

" Soup 

Boiled Asparagus . 
Creamed Asparagus 

B. 



PAGE 

. 268 
. 223 
. 267 
. 268 



Bacon, Broiled . . . . 


151 


Curled Bacon . . . . 


151 


Baked Custards 




Baked Custard . . 288 


-289 


" Caramel Custard . 


290 


" Custard (Lactose) 


290 


Chocolate Custard 


289 


Malted Milk Custard . . 


290 


White Custard . . . . 


289 


Baking Powder (Rumford) 


472 


Bananas Baked . . . . 


280 


Banana Custard 


288 


Bart.ey 




Barley Gruel . . . . 


238 


Gruel with Broth 


238 


Gruel or Jelly . 


238 


Jelly . . . . 


244 


Water . . . . 


124 


Water (for In- 




fants) 


125 


Bavarian Cream 


210 


Beef 




Beef Broth 


219 


" Egg-nog . . . . 


120 


" Jelly 


222 


" Sandwiches . 


260 


Broiled Beefsteak 


149 


Maltre D'HCtel Butter . 


149 


Pan Broiled Beef Cakes . 


149 


Roast Beef 


152 


Scraped Beef 


217 


Beef Preparations . . 


212 


Beef Essence .... 


215 


" Juice 


214 


" Juice (for Infants) 


215 


''Tea 


216 


" Tea Frozen 


216 


" Tea with Hydro- 




chloric Acid . 


216 


Liquid Peptonoids 


215 


Panopepton .... 


216 



tt 



PAGE 

Beep Prepabatioxs {confd) 
Raw Beef Sandwiches . 217 
Scraped Beef . . 217 

Beet Greens 269 

Beverages 
Acid Beverages . .110 

Albuminous Beverages . 118 
Miscellaneous Beverages . 127 
Starchy Beverages . 124 

Birds (Note Poultry) . . 152 

Biscuit 

Baking Powder Biscuit . 252 

Bran Biscuit . ... 254 

Cakes .... 254 

Muffins .... 254 

Commeal Gems ... 253 

Soy Bean Muffins ... 253 

White Gems . ... 253 

Blanc Mange . . . 295 

Chocolate Blanc Mange . 301 

Boiled Frosting ... 320 

Bouillon, Clam . . . .174 

Clam Bouillon Bisque . 175 

Bran Biscuits . ... 254 

Bran Bread 252 

Bran Cakes 254 

Bran Muffins . . . . 254 

Bran Tea 137 

Brandy and Milk .197 

Bread 247 

Baking Powder Biscuit . 252 
Boston Brown Bread . . 252 
Bran Biscuit .... 254 
Bread . .252 

Cakes . .254 

Muffins . .254 

Cornmeal Gems . 253 

Entire Wheat Bread . .251 
Gluten Bread . . .252 

Soy Bean Muffins . . . 253 
White Flour Bread . 250 

White Gems .... 253 
Whole Wheat or Graham 

Bread 251 

Bread Crumds Buttered . 246 

Bread Panada . .127 

Bread Pudding .... 302 

Chocolate Bread Pudding . 303 

Brown Betty .... 304 



« 



ISDEX TO RECIPES 



475 



PAGE 



PAGE 



Bbead Pudding {continued) 






« 



t( 



(( 



tt 



Jelly Bread Pudding 

Lactose Bread Pudding 

Lemon 

Orange 

Plain 
Bbead Sauce fob Game 
Bbeakfast Foods 

Boiled Rice 

Commeal Mush 

Hasty Pudding 

Hominy 

Oatmeal Mush . 

Soy Bean Breakfast Food 242 

Steamed Rice . . 298 
Bboths 217 

Beef Broth 219 



303 
304 
303 
302 
302 
158 
242 
297 
242 
242 

243 
243 



Broth with Grains 
Chicken Broth . 
Clam Broth No. I 
" Broth No. II 
Egg Broth (Milk) 
*^ Broth (Hot Water) 
" Broth (Beef Broth) 
Mutton Broth . 
Prepared Broths 
Veal Broth . . 
BuTTEB Balls 
BUTTEB Cbeam 

BUTTEBMILK (AbTIFICLAL) 

Buttebed Cbumbs 

a. 



219 
220 
220 
220 
118 
221 
221 
219 
221 
220 
255 
165 
199 
246 



317 

Boiled Frosting ... 320 
Cold Water Sponge Cake . 318 
Ginger Bread .... 320 
Gluten Nut Cake ... 319 
Hot Water Sponge Cake .319 
Marguerite Wafers . 320 

Plain Cake .... 319 
Sponge Cake .... 318 
Calf's Foot Jellt . 221-222 

Cabbots 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Caudle 241 

Caulifloweb .... 268 






Caulifloweb {continued) 
Boiled 
Creamed 
Celeby 
Boiled . 
Creamed 
Soup 
Soup 
Toast 
Cereals 

Breakfast Food 
Gruels 

Starchy Jellies 
Chablotte, Orange 
Cheese 
Cheese Wafers . 
Sandwiches 
Chicken 

Broiled Chicken 
Chicken Broth . 

Broth Jel 
Salad . 
Creamed Chicken 
Jellied 
Roast 
Gravy 
Stuffing 
Trussing . 
Scalloped Chicken 
To clean Chicken 
Chocolate (Walter Bak 
er's) 
dThocolate Blanc Man^o 
Bread Pudding 
Custard 
Ice Cream . 
Milk Shake . 
Sauce for 1 ce 

Cream . 
Syrup . 
Vienna Style . 
Plain Chocolate 

" Chocolate (Ind.) . 
Chops 

Chop Broiled in Paper . 
French Chops .... 
Lamb Chops Broiled . 
Mutton Chops " 
Pan Broiled Chops 



t< 
it 



tt 



tt 
tt 



268 
268 
268 
268 
268 
224 
225 
257 
233 
242 
238 
244 
211 

276 
259 

156 
220 
222 
274 
157 
157 
154 
165 
154 
154 
157 
153 



.301 
303 
289 
308 
135 

311 
1 36 
135 
134 
135 

151 
150 
150 
150 
150 



476 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Cinnamon Water . . . 136 
Milk .... 197 

Clams 172 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 



Clam Bouillon . . . . 

Bouillon Bisque 

Broth . . . . 

Broth No. II . . 

Broth on Toast . 

Frapp^ . . . . 

Sherbet . . . . 

Soup 

Stew 

Water . . . . 

Water No. II . . 
Little Neck Clams 
Steamed Clams 
Cocoa (Walter Baker*s) 
Breakfast Cocoa . 

Cocoa (Ind.) . 

" (Lactose) 

Cocoa Junket . . . . 



tt 



(I 






it 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



n 



n 



it 



« 



»( 



tt 



It 



) 



Malted Milk Cocoa 
Codfish 

Creamed Codfish 
Codfish 
Coffee 

Boiled Coffee 

Coffee (Ind. 
Coffee ( Lactose ) 
Egg-nog 
Ice Cream 
Jelly 
Filtered Coffee . 
Malted Milk Coffee 
Percolator Coffee 
Peptonoids Coiree Jelly 
Condensed Milk 
Consomme 
Corn Soup 
Corn meal Gems 
" Mush 
Cornstarch Pudding 

Fruit Jelly 
Pudding 



i< 



(( 



174 
176 
173 
220 
258 
315 
312 
174 
174 
173 
173 
172 
172 

133 
134 
133 
294 



(Lactose) 294 



134 

163 
164 

132 
132 
133 
120 
308 
207 
132 
133 
131 
207 
192 
228 
224 
253 
242 
295 
295 
295 



page 
Crackebs 
Bran Crackers . . . . 260 
Cheese Wafers . . . . 276 
Cracker Crumbs (but- 
tered) 246 

Cracker Gruel . . . 239 

" Panada ... 126 

Puddinor . . , m 

Crisped Crackers ... 229 

Date Crackers . . . 260 

Gluten Wafers . . . 261 

Marguerite Wafers . . 320 

Toasted Crackers . .256 

Cbanrerry J"eu:,y . . 280 

Cranberry Sauce . . 280 

Cream Sauc?e 

Cream Sauce (Toast) . 257 

" (Vegetables) 271 

White Sauce (Fish) . . 165 

(Macaroni) 245 

( Scalloped 

Tomatoes) .271 

Cream of Tabtar Dbixk . 114 

Cream (Whipped) . ! 305 

Croutons ...... 229 

Crumrs (Buttered) . 246 

Crust Coffee .... 126 

CucuMRER Relish .166 

Currant Water . ! 115 

Custards 

Baked Custards . 288-289 

Baked Custard (Lactose) 290 
Baked Caramel Custard . 290 
Chocolate Custard 289 

Custard Junket . 294 

Custard Souffle 292 

Frozen Custard .311 

Malted Milk Custard * . 290 
Soft Custards (Lactose) 287 
White Custard . 289 



Malted Milk Blanc Manjje 296 



Pineapple Cream 



295 



D. 

Dandelion Greens 

Dates 

Date Jelly . . 
and Hominy 
Sandwiches 
Salad . . 



It 



tt 



tt 



269 

209 
243 
260 
275 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



477 



PAGE 

Dates {continued) 

Dates 278 

" Sauce .... 281 
Dates for Young Children 281 



PAGE 



Date Bon Bons 
Dates and Rice 
Date Tapioca 
Desserts ( Frozen ) 
Ice Cbeam 
Caramel Ice Cream 



282 
298 
301 
306 
306 
310 



(( 



Ice Cream No. II 310 



n 



tl 



{( 



tf 



i( 



<( 



« 



u 



Chocolate Ice Cream . 
Coffee " " 

Frozen Custard 
Grape Ice Cream . 
Hot Cocoa Sauce for Ice 

Cream 

Junket Ice Cream . 
Malted Milk Ice Cream 
Peach 
Raspberry 
Strawberry 
Vanilla 

Vanilla (Lactose) 
Ices 
Clam Frapp6 
Fruit Ice 
Grape Frapp6 
Lemon Ice . 
Orange " 

" No. II 

" No. Ill 
Orange Straws 
Pineapple Ice 
Scalpicon of Fruit 
Shebbet 

Clam Sherbet 
Grape Ambrosia 
Grape Sherbet . 
Lemon Milk Sherbet 



ft 



({ 



Malted Milk 
Strawberry 
Strawberry 
Dessebts ( Hot 



i( 



« 



(( 



if 



308 
308 
311 
309 

311 
311 
310 
309 
309 
309 
307 
308 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 
315 
312 
312 
313 
313 
312 
Xo. II 312 
313 
312 
312 
286 
302 



Xo. II 
AND Cold) 



Bread Puddings 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 303 

. 304 
. 303 
. 304 



Brown Betty 

Jelly Bread Pudding 

Lactose 



303 
302 
302 

295 
295 
296 
297 
297 



Bbead Puddings (cont'd) 
Lemon Bread Pudding 
Orange " " . . 

Plain " " . . 

COBNSTABCH OR BLANC 

Mange 

Cornstarch Fruit Jelly 

Gluten Pudding 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange . 

** Jelly . . . 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 296 

Nutritious Wheat Pudding 296 

Pineapple Cream . . . 295 

Cracker Pudding . . . 304 

Plain Cracker Pudding . 304 

Custards 

Baked Custards . . 288-289 
Baked Caramel Custard . 290 
or Cup *' . 288 

Custard ( Lactose ) 290 



(C 

ft 



(( 



u 



C( 



289 
290 
289 

287 
288 
288 
288 
288 
288 
287 
287 
287 



Chocolate Custard 
Malted Milk 
White 
Soft Custards . 
Almoyd Pudding . 
Banana Custard 
Floating Island 
Meringue 
Orange Custard 
Soft Custard No. I 

Custard (Diabetic) 
Custard (Lactose) 

Junket 293 

Cocoa Junket .... 294 
Cocoa Junket (Lactose) . 294 
Custard " .... 294 
Plain " (Lactose) . 294 
Pudding Sauces . 305 

Foamy Sauce .... 305 

306 
305 
305 
210 
305 
305 
306 
297 
297 



(( 



t( 



tt 



tt 



it 



it 



a 



Fruit 
Gold 
Hard 
Orange 
Vanilla 

Whipped Cream 
Whipped Cream No. II 
Rice Puddings . 
Boiled Rice 
Cream of Rice Pudding . 299 
Peaches and Rice . . 298 



4T8 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 



(( 



« 



290 
200 
298 
298 
300 
300 
301 
301 
300 
300 
301 
300 
290 
292 
291 
291 
292 
292 
293 
291 
154 
272 
227 



Rice Puddings {continued) 

Plain Rioe Pudding 

Rice Meringue . 

Southern Snow Balls 

Steamed Rice . 
Tapioca Puddings . 

Apple Tapioca . 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

Date Tapioca 

Pineapple Tapioca 

Plain 

Raspberry 

Tapioca Cream 
Whips and Souffles 

Custard Souffle 

Fruit Whip 

Grape Whip 

Lemon SouJffle 

Omelet Souffle 

Peach Meringue 

Strawberry Whip . 
Dressing fob Poultry 

" Salads 
Dried Fruit Soup . 
Dry Milk 

193, 198, 219, 366, 437 
Dry Peptonoids, Sand- 
wiches 260 

E. 

Eggs 175 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 
122 
123 
123 
122 

122 
288 
180 
182 
120 
183 
120 
118 
221 
221 
121 



(( 



(( 






u 



In 



Milk 
Orange 
Sherry 
Water 
Albumin Water (for 

fants) 
Baked Custard 
" Eggs . . 
*♦ Meat Omelet 
Beef Egg-nog . . 
Coddled Eggs (Scrambled) 
CofTeo Egg-nog . . 
Ekj? Broth (Milk) 
EKg Broth (Water) 
Broth (Beef) 
T^emonade 



ii 



II 



M 
(( 



« 






(( 



Eggs {continued) 
Egg Nests 
£^-nog No. I . 
" No. II 
Sandwiches 
Sauce 

Sauce No. II 
Egg and Brandy 
Hum 

Sherry Gruel 
Wine 
Filled Eggs 
Golden Rod Egg 
Grape Juice and Egg 
Grape Yolk 
Hard Cooked Egg 
Junket Egg-nog 
Malted Milk and Egg 
Marguerite Salad 
Mulled Wine . 
Omelet (Bread) 
" (Foamy) 

(Meat) 
Pineapple Egg-nog 
Poached or dropped Egg . 
Egg in Milk . . 
Scrambled Eggs (Coddled) 
Shirred Egg 

Eggs No. II 
Soft Cooked Egg . 

" No. 
" Custard . . 
Steamed Eggs . 
Stokes* Mixture 
Water Lily Salad . 
Whips and SoufBes 
Evaporated Milk 



PAGE 



181 
119 
119 
183 
163 
166 
120 
120 
241 
120 
184 
181 
122 
121 
180 
119 
121 
275 
122 
182 
181 
182 
120 
182 
182 
183 
183 
183 
179 
ISO 
. 287 
. 180 
. 121 
. 276 
. 290 
193-194 



II 



F. 

Fabina Gbuel 

Fish 

Baked Fish 
Baked Fish 
Broiled Fish 
Creamed Codfish 
Codfish 
Creamed Fish . 
Creamed Fish . 



239 
159 
162 
164 
162 
163 
164 
163 
164 



V 








1 


^^' INDEX TO RECIPES 


479 






PAGt- 


Fbuit Soup .... 


227 


Fish 




104 


Fbuit Whip .... 


2111 1 


Halibut a la Creole 




183 


FBurrADE 


112 


Bcttlloped Fish , , 




163 


G. 




Fish Sauces . . . 




185 




Butter Crewn . , 




165 


Game (Note Poultbt) . 


152 


Cream or White Sauce 


165 


Gelatin 




Cream Sauce (Diabetic) 


165 


Bavarian Cream . . 


210 


Cucumber Relieh , 




lea 


CofTee Jelly , . . 


307 






165 




207 


" Sauce No. 11 '. 




166 


Date ■'.'.'.'. 


209 


Hollandaiae Sauce 




loa 


Grape Fluff . . . 


211 


Tomato Sauce . . 




166 


Grape Jelly . . . 


206 


Flaxseed Tea . . 




136 


Pineapple Jell-0 Whip 


212 


FlJXaEED AND LlCOBlC 


Te 


136 


Lemon Jelly . . . 


206 


Floating Island 




2B8 


Made in a Minute Dessert 212 | 


Flox.™. KiNiia , - 




249 


Orange Bask eta . . 


2oe 


FLOim GBUia, . 




239 




211 


PLODtt Ball .... 


242 


" Jelly . ; 
Jelly No. II . 


205 


FBAPPfe 






206 


Clam FrappS . , 




315 


Panopepton Jelly . . 


208 


Grape " . - 




315 


Peach Jelly . . . 


207 


Fbostino ... - 




320 


Wine Jelly 


207 


Feozen Costabd . - 




311 


206 


Frozen Dbssebts (See Deb 




Peptonised Milk Jelly 


208 


seSTs) . . . 




306 


Snow Pudding . . 
find.) 


209 


Fbtjits 


276 


209 


Apples — Cuban Sty 




280 


Spanish Cream . . 


210 


Baked . 




279 


(Ind.) 


210 


Stewed . 




279 


Strawberry Mouasfi 


212 


Apricot and Prune Sauci 


280 


Wine Jelly .... 


204 


Baked Banana . . 




260 


" No. II . . 


205 


Cranberry Sauce or 


Jell 


280 


Sauces: Sebved with Gel- 


Date . . 209,243 


,260 








275,278,281,282 


2i)8 


301 


Orange 


210 


Figs, Stewed . - 




282 


Soft Custard . . . 


287 


LemoD Baked . . 




280 


Whipped Cream . . 


305 


Orange Baked . , 




280 


Gems 




No. II . . 




281 


Cornmeal Gems , . 


253 


Straws 




315 


White Gema . . , 


253 


" Sunflower . 




281 


GiNGEB BBEAD . . . 


320 






278 


GisuER Tea ... . 


137 


Prunes Stewed 




281 


<i:BAPe Jcice 




Khubarb Steamed . 




2S2 


Albumini/ed Grape Juice 123 


Fboit Ice . . 




314 


Grape Ambrosia 


313 


Fbuit Punch 






« la-' ■ ; ; 


315 


FBurr PuDDiNQ Sauce 




306 


211 


FsulT Salad . . . 




275 


■' Jelly . , , 


206 


Fbuit Sandwicheh . 




2511 


" Ite Cream 


309 

i 



ij*> 



IXDEX TO RECIPES 



Ot7&^ J«M«^ ftlftlB 



116 





. 112 


^ litkia . . 


. . 116 


"" X«««tr . . . 


. . 116 


■- Slwrtat - > 


. . 313 


^ W«t»r . . 


. . 115 


^ \%5uf» 


. - »1 


•" YoBk 


. . 121 


GSATT FI9K Rk^dkSTS . 


. . 132 


•*- Rkmlst F^CUKT 155 


GlDC^SI^ L.^BOSX> . . 


. . 15S 


Gk.~1EL;S^ . - . > 


. . 23S 


Am?wN*K Gmel . 


. , 23S 


S^u^i^ Gmiel . 


. 2» 


-" witit Bretk , ±3S 


* «r J<ilv 


. . 23S 


BtvviKd FWwr Grcwl 


242 


Caokile . . . . 


- . 241 


Cr«*i» Gxtiri . . 


. , 23» 


E^ iu»i Sk«rr GhkI 


. 241 


FaLTioak GrtKl 


23* 


Ftotjx GtjwI 


- . 23» 


Floor EaOI . . . 


. . 242 


Imiiaa M«il Gnwl 


24»> 


Otttate&I Gru^l Xv.v I 


. 240 


No. II 


. 241 


Xa III . ±41 


KW or Oifct Gnwl . 


- . 235> 


Kx-^ JeUy 


. 244 


Scv B*»aa Gruel 


. 240 


lajrioca JiilU . 


. 244 


Oll rKN — 




Baied Ea^ . - . 


. 180 


Brvfdd ^ 


2:52 


Civam. SaUiW 


1193 


Cri>p«> ... 


. i5<> 


Ca^ve* ■ Gluten Nut • 


. . 31^ 


Vi>2i 


. . I^ 


Kakvja 


. . l^ 


Ctvuttt^ 


. . 164 


V.>V*ltJt^ V.\xli:5it 


. H54 


KrvttcbL l\vA>5 


. 25.> 


v.ilut\Mfc ^^^idtM^ 


i« 


Nvs.»»ik*H 


i:W^24d 


^»U|K^ 




v>v<Aitt v>i CVlerv 


2*5 


** CWBAtO 


. . i2r 



PACK 

{c€)ntinued) 
— Oyster . .172 

. . . . 261 

Halibct a i-a Creole . IW 

Ham Bmkhxd 152 

Habd Saitck 305 

Hasty Pcddcxg .... 242 

Hbbb TkA 137 

HOUA^OIAISK SArcE . . IW 
HoMEjrr Mush ... 243 

Hot Cocoa Sacce ... 311 
Hot A3ED Cou> Desserts . 286 

307 

310 

310 

308 

308 

311 

309 

311 
311 
310 
309 
309 
309 
307 

308 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 
315 
240 



297 
29: 
112 



Cansid Ice Cream 




-•*•'• No 


. II 


CiMKoIate Ice Cream 




Coffee Ice Cremm 




FroKB Custard 




Grmpe Ice Cream 




Hoi Cocoa Sauce for 


Ice 


Cream 




Jmkct Ice Cream . 




>Ialted Milk Ice Crean 


[i 


Peadi Ice Cream 




Raspberry Ice Cream . 




5?tr»wbeny Ice Cream 




VaaiUa Ice Cream 




VaniUa i Lactose > 


Ice 


Cream . . . . 




Ices .... 






Ciam Frai^ . 






Fruit Ice . . . 






Grape Frappi^ . 






Leflion lee . 






Oran^ Ice . 






- ** Xo. II . 






- - Xo. HI 






Owa^e Straws 






Pizietipple Ice . 






Scalpicon of Fruits 




IxDiAX Meal Gkuel 




Ieish Moss 




Blaac Mam^ . . . 




JellT . - . . 




LenMBade 







INDEX TO RECIPES 



481 



PAGE 

. 203 
. 114 
. 221 
. 244 
. 212 
.212 
Made in a Minute Dessert 212 
Jexlt Bbead Pudding . . 303 

Junket 293 

Cocoa Junket (Lactose) . 294 
Custard " .... 294 

Junket Egg-nog .119 

Plain Junket . . .199 

198 



J. 

Jexlies (See Gelatin) 

Jelly and Ice 

Meat Jellies 

Starchy Jellies 
Jell-0 .... 

Pineapple Jell-0 Whip 



W T M^SfJ .... 


. XV*J 


KUMYSS 




Dr. Brush's Kumyss 
Home-made Kumyss 


. 199 
. 198 


L. 

LiAMB 




Chops Broiled in Pape 
French Chops . 
Lamb ** Broiled . 


T . 151 
. 150 
. 150 


Pan Broiled Chops 
Lemon Souffle . . 


. 150 
. 292 


Lemonade . . . . 


. Ill 


Effervescent Lemonade 


. Ill 


Egg 
Fruit 


. 121 
. Ill 


Grape 

Irish Moss " 


. 112 
. 112 


Lactose " 


. Ill 


Pineapple " 
Soda 


. Ill 
. Ill 


Lemon Baked 


. 280 


" Bread Pudding . 
Lemon Ice . . . . 


. 303 
. 314 


Lemon Jelly 

" Milk Sherbet . 


. 206 
. 312 


" Whey . . . 
Licorice Tea . . . . 


. 198 
. 136 


LiQun? Peptonoids . 
Lf^uid Peptonoids Col 

Hot 


d '. 215 
i . 216 


" with W 


hey 198 



page 

Liquid Peptonoids iconfd) 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 

Wine Jelly . 205 

Lettuce Sandwiches . . 259 

Lime Water 137 



Macaroni 

Baked Macaroni 
Boiled Macaroni 
Boiled Noodles 
Noodles (Diabetic) 
Sauces and Accessories 



235 
245 
245 
230 
230 
245 



Buttered Cracker Crumbs 246 

Cream or White Sauce . 245 

Tomato Sauce . 245 

Made in a Minute Dessert 212 

Maitre D'Hotel Butter . 149 

Malted Milk (Horlick's) 

Malted Milk .... 194 
Blanc Mange 296 

134 
133 
290 
310 
194 
313 



(( 



(( 



it 



K 



(( 



(( 



it 



« 



t( 



i( 



it 



it 



a 



li 



a 



Cocoa 
Coffee 
Custard . 
Ice Cream ' . 
Plain . . 
Sherbet . 
and Currant 
Jelly . .114^ 
Malted Milk and Egg . . 121 
" with Tamarind 116^ 
" with Wine . 114^ 

Matzoon 199* 

Meat 140« 

Broiled Bacon . .151 
Curled " .... 151 
Broiled Ham .152 
Broiled Steak .... 149 
Chops or Birds Broiled in 
Paper 15 1 



(( 



(( 



it 



Lamb Chops Broiled . .150 
French Chops .... 150 
Mutton Chops Broiled . 150 
Pan Broiled Beef Cakes . 149 
Pan Broiled Chops . .150 
Roast Meats . .152 

Gravy 152 

Scraped Beef .217 



482 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Meat Jellies .... 221 

Beef Jelly 222 

Calf's Foot Jelly . . .221 
Chicken Jelly .... 222 
Panopepton Jelly . . 208 

Peptonoids Coflfee Jelly . 207 
Wine Jelly . 205 

Meat Soups (See Broths) 217 

Meringue 288 

Rice Meringue .... 299 

Milk 184 

Albuminized Milk . . 122 
Baked Milk .... 194 
Brandy and Milk ... 197 
Buttermilk (Artificial) . 199 
Cinnamon and Milk .197 

Condensed Milk ... 192 
Dry Milk 

193, 198, 219, 266, 437 
Evaporated Milk . .193-194 



<( 



Junket 
Kumyss . 
Milk Toast . 
Malted Milk 
Matzoon or Zoolak 
Modified Milk . 
Pasteurization . 
Peptonised Milk 

Eff'ervescent . 

By the Cold Process 
" " Warm Process 

Immediate Process . 

Partially Peptonised 

Specially 
Rice Milk . . 
Rum and Milk . 
Sherbets 

Sherry and Milk 
Sterilization 
Thickened Milk 
Whey . . . 

Acid Phosphate . .113 

Lemon Whey .113 

Liquid Peptonoids with 
Whey 198 

Wine Whey . . . .113 

Minute Tapioca . 300 

Miscellaneous Beverages 127 

Cocoa (Lactose) . . . 133 



199 
198 
257 
194 
199 
192 
193 
195 
196 
195 
195 
. 196 
. 195 
. 196 
. 197 
. 197 
. 312 
. 197 
. 194 
198-239 
. 198 



« 

K 
(( 



<( 



Misc. Beverages (confd) 

Cocoa (Ind.) . . 

Breakfast Cocoa 

Malted Milk Cocoa . 

Coff'ee (Lactose) . . 

Boiled CofiTee . . 

" (Ind.) 
Filtered Coffee . . 
Malted Milk Coffee . 
Percolator Coffee 
Chocolate .... 
Milk Shake 
Syrup 

Vienna Style 
Plain . . 
" (Ind.) 
Special Non-Nutritive Bev 
erages .... 
Bran Tea . . . 
Cinnamon Water 
Flaxseed Tea 
Ginger Tea . 
Herb Tea . . . 
Lime Water . 
Slippery Elm Tea . 

Tea 

Russian Tea . 
Mock Bisque Soup 
Mousse, Stbawbebbt 
Muffins 

Bran Biscuits . 
Bran Cakes 
Bran Muffins 
Soy Bean Muffins . 
Mulled Wine 
Mush (See Breakfast 

Food) 
Mutton Broth 
Mutton Cuops Broiled 



Pi 



t 

i 
£ 

1: 

2- 

21 
K 



' Noodles ( Diabetic ) . 230-24 
Non-Nitrogenous Beverages U 

Bran Tea 13 

Cinnamon Water . . .13 
Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 13 
Flaxseed Tea . . .13 

Ginger Tea ... 13 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



483 



PAGE 
NON-NlTBOGENOUS BeVEBAGES 

(continued) 

Herb Tea 137 

Lime Water .137 

Slippery Elm Tea . . . 137 

Nutritious Desserts . 286 

Nutritious Wheat Pudding 296 



0. 


. . fcUtJ 


Oatmeal 




Caudle .... 


. . 241 


Oat or Rice Gruel . • 


. . 238 


Oatmeal Gruel . 


. . 240 


" No. II 


. . 241 


" No. Ill 


. 241 


Mush . . 


. . 243 


Water . . 


. . 125 


" No. II 


. . 126 


Olive Oil .... 


■ • 


Salads .... 


. . 272 


Salad Dressings 
Onions 


. . 273 




. 269 


Creamed 


. . 269 


Scalloped . . . . 
Soup 
Omelet 


. 269 
. . 225 


Baked Meat Omelet 


. 182 


Bread Omelet . 


.. . 182 


Foamy Omelet . 
Meat Omelet 


. 181 
. 182 


Omelet Souffle . . 


. 292 


Oranges 




Albuminized Orange . 

Baked Orange . 

Orange Baskets 

" Bread Pudding 
" Charlotte . . 


. 123 
. 280 
. 206 
. 302 
. 211 


" Custard . . 


. 288 


" Ice ... . 


. 313 


" No. II 


. 314 


" No. Ill . 


. 314 


" Jelly No. I 
" No. II 


. 205 
. 206 


" Plain . . . 


. 281 


" Sauce 


. 210 


" Straws . . 


. 315 


" Sunflower . 


. 281 


Orangeade . . . . 


. 112 



PAGE 

Oysters 166 

Broiled 170 

Creamed . . • .. 170 

Creamed No. II . . .170 
Pan Roasted .170 

Raw 169 

Roasted in the Shell . .169 

Scalloped 171 

Soup 171 

Soup 172 

Stew 172 

To Wash Oysters ... 169 

P. 

Panada (Cracker) . .126 

(Bread) ... 127 

Pan Broiled Beef Cakes . 149 
Panopepton 

Panopepton Bouillon Hot 228 

Hot . . . 216 

Jelly ... 208 

Pasteurization .... 193 

Parsley Butter .... 267 

Peas Green 269 

" Canned 270 

" Creamed No. I . . . 270 

No. II . . 270 

Peach Ice Cream . 309 

Jelly 207 

" Meringue . . . 293 
and Rice .... 298 
Peptonised Milk . 196 
Effervescent .... 196 
By the Cold Process . . 195 
" " Warm Process . 195 
Immediate Process . 196 
Partially Peptonised . . 195 
Specially " . . 196 
Dry Peptonoids Sand- 
wiches 260 

Liquid Peptonoids Cold . 215 

Hot . 215 
with 

Whey 198 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 

Wine Jelly . . 205 
Phosphate ( Horsford's ) 

Acid Phosphate .113 

Whev .113 



484 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Pineapple 




Pineapple Cream 


. . . 295 


*^ Egg-nog 


. . 120 


Ice . 


. . . 315 


Jell-0 \^ 


^ip . 212 


" Juice 


. . . 113 


" Lemonac 


le . . Ill 


" Tapioca 


. . 300 


Potatoes . 


. . 265 


Baked 


. . . 266 


Boiled 


. . . 265 


Creamed 


. . . 267 


Mashed . 


. . 265 


Potatoes Au Grati 


n . .267 


Potato Balls 


. . . 267 


" Cakes . 


. . . 266 


" in Half Sh( 


ell . . 266 


Riced Potatoes 


. . . 265 


Surprise Balls . 


. . . 266 


Poultry 


. . . 152 


Birds Broiled in Pi 


aper . 151 


Bread Sauce for G 


rame . 158 


Broiled Chicken 


. . . 156 


Quail . 


. . . 156 


Small Bird 


8 . .156 


** Squabs 


. . . 156 


'Creamed Chicken 


. . . 157 


Dry Dressing for 


Stuffing 154 


General Rule for C 


)Ieaning 


Poultry . 


. . . 153 


Gravy for Roast Pc 


mltry . 155 


Jellied Chicken 


. . . 157 


Larded Grouse . 


. . . 158 


Tjflrded Quail 


. . . 158 


Roast Poultry . 


. . . 154 


Dry Dressing . 


. . 154 


Gravy . 


. . 155 


To Bone Birds . 


. . 155 


To Clean Poultry 


. . . 153 


To Truss " . . 


. . 154 


Scalloped Cliicken . 


. . 157 


Prunes Stewed . 


. . 281 


Puddings 


. 295-305 


Pudding Sauces . 


. . 305 


Foamy Sauce 


. . 305 


Fruit " . . 


. . 306 


Gold " . . 


. . 305 


Hard " . . 


. . 305 


Orange " • • 


. . 210 



PAGE Pudding Sauces (continued) 



Vanilla 

Whipped Cream . . 

" No. II 
Punch 

Fruit Punch . . . 

Tea Punch . . 

Tutti Frutti Punch . 

Q. 

Quail 

Broiled 

Broiled' in Paper . 
Bread Sauce for Game 
Larded Quail 

Raspbebby Ice Cream 

Tapioca . 
Rhubabb Steamed 
Water . 
Rice ..... 
Boiled Rice 
Cream of Rice Pudding 
Date and Rice . 
Peaches and Rice 
Plain Rice Pudding 
Rice Gruel . 

Jelly . . 

Meringue 
Milk . . . 
Water 

No. II . 
Steamed Rice . 
Roasts or Meats 
Rum and Milk 



« 



(( 



(( 






303 
303 
306 

117 
116 
117 



PA6E 

. 156 

. 151 

. 158 

. 158 



. 309 
. 301 
. 282 
. 115 
. 234 
. 297 
. 299 
. 298 
. 298 
. 299 
. 238 
. 244 
. 299 
. 197 
. 125 
. 125 

298 
. 152 

197 



8. 

Sacchabin 

Salads .... 

Chicken Salad . 

Date and Orange Salad 

Filled Eggs . . 

Fruit Salad 

Marguerite Salad . 

Mixed " 

Sweetbread " 

Waldorf 

Water Lily " 



8-249 
. 272 
274 
275 
184 
275 
275 
275 
275 
275 
276 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



485 



Salad Accompaniments 

Cheese Wafers 
Saiad Dressings 

Boiled Dressing 

Cream 

French 

Mayonnaise 
Sauces fob 

Ice Cream (Hot Cocoa) 

Macaroni 



(( 



<( 



Meat 

Pudding 

Vegetable 
Sanatooen 
Sandwiches 

Boston Brown Bread 

Bread and Butter . 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Chicken 



(( 



u 



t( 



ti 



<( 



(( 



n 
u 



Date 

Egg 

Fruit 

Lettuce 

Nut 

Peptonoids 

Raw Beef 
Savory Double Boiler 
ScALPicoN OF Fruits 
Scrambled Eggs (Coddled 
Scraped Beef 
Shell-Fish .... 
Oysters 

Broiled 

Creamed .... 

Creamed No. II 

Pan Roasted 

Raw 

Roasted in the Shell 

Scalloped .... 

Soup 

Soup 

Stew 

To Wash Oysters . 
Clams 

Albuminized Clam Water 

Clam Bouillon . 

Bouillon Bisque 

Broth 

Broth No. II 



page 
276 
276 
272 
273 
274 
273 
273 

311 
245 
149 
305 
271 
122 
258 
259 
259 
259 
259 
260 
183 
259 
259 
259 
260 
217 
89-511 
315 



page 



<( 



« 



k^ 



183 
21/ 
166 
166 
170 
170 
170 
170 
169 
169 
171 
171 
172 
172 
169 
172 
123 
174 
175 
173 
220 



n 
(( 
t( 
t( 
(( 



II 



II 



Clams ( continued ) 
Clam Broth on Toast 
Frappe 
Sherbet 
Soup . 
Stew . 
Water 
Watir No 
Little Neck Clams 
Steamed Clams 
Sherbet 

Clam Sherbet . 
Grape Ambrosia 
Grape Sherbet . 
Lemon Milk Sherbet 

" " " No 

Malted Milk Sherbet 
Strawberry Sherbet 

" No. II 
Sherry (Albuminized) 

SlIEKRY AND MiLK 

Slippery Elm Tea 
Sippets 

Soda Lemonade . 
Soft Custard 
Almond Pudding 
Banana Custard 
Floating Island 
Meringue 
Orange Custard 
Soft Custard No. 1 

{ Lactose ) 
(Diabetic) 
Souffles or Whips . 

Soups 

Asparagus Soup (Cream) 
Clam Bouillon . . . . 
Bouillon Bisque . 

Soup 

Consomme 

Cream of Asparagus . 
Celery 
Celery 
Corn 
Onion 
Pea Soup 
Potatoes 
Kice . . . . 
Tomato Soup . 






it 



u 



it 



tt 



n 



(t 



•( 



i( 



tt 



t( 



tt 






tt 



i( 



258 
316 
312 
174 
174 
173 
173 
172 
172 

312 
313 
313 
312 
312 
313 
312 
312 
123 
197 
137 
256 
111 
287 
288 
288 
288 
288 
288 
287 
287 
287 
290 
223 
223 
174 
175 
174 
228 
223 
224 
225 
224 
225 
225 
226 
226 
227 



486 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAOE 



na 



Siyrrs {eomHmmed) 

Dried Frait Sofop ... 227 



Mock Bisqpe Soap . . 


227 


Qmtm Scrap .... 


226 


Qrslcr Soap .... 


171 


(DUbetic) . 


172 


Stew .... 


172 


¥mmt/fefiUm Bouillon . 


228 


ToBftto Soop with Broth 226 


Tictorim Soap .... 


228 


SOCr ACCOMFA>-IM£:STS 




Crimed Cimikim . . . 


229 


CfUlllOBS 


229 


GhilHi Ctisps .... 


256 


Xoodks 


230 


Scmllopcd Tmnatoea . . 


271 


Rah 


165 


Tonsted Crmckers . . 


. 229 


Sot Beajx 




219, 240, 242, 24S 


1, 253 


Sfoxgb Cake . . . .318-319 


Sfeciai, Nok-Nltkitivk Bilv- 


ERAGES .... 


. 136 


Bran Tea .... 


. 137 


Cinnamon Water . 


. 136 


Flaxseed and Licorice Tei 


i 136 


Ginger Tea 


. 137 


Herb Tea .... 


137 


Lime Water 


137 


Slippery Elm Tea . . . 


137 


Spinach 


269 


Squabs, Bboiue3) .... 


156 


Strhcg Beans .... 


270 


Stabcht Beverages 


124 


Barley Water .... 


124 


" for Infants . 


125 


Bread Panada . 


127 


Cracker Panada 


126 


Crust Coffee .... 


126 


Oatmeal Water 


125 


" No. II 


126 


lUce Water .... 


125 


" No. II 


125 


Toast Water . . . 


126 


Stabcht Jelues 


244 


Barley Jelly . . . 


. 244 


Cornstarch Jellies 


. 295 


Rice Jelly .... 


244 



Stabcst JEU.IES {continued) 

Tapi<M» Jelly . 
Steak' <See Beef) 
sterii.izati02v of milk 
Steamed Clams . 
Stew, Otstes 
Stokes' Mixtuke 



Stbawbebbt Ice Cbeam 

" Mousse 

Stbawbebbt Whip 
SuGAB Substitutes 
SuGAB Stbup . 
sweetina . 
Sweetbreads . 

Boiled . . . 

Creamed 

No. II 

Fricasseed 

Parboiled Sweetbread 

Sweetbreads with Peas .^ 
Stbup (Sugab) . . . . 110 



T. 



. 141 

. m 
. m 

. 172 
. 121 
. 301 
. 212 
. 291 
8-24J 
110 
8-249 
. 200 
. 201 
. 201 
. 20i 
. 202 
. 201 



Tamabind Wateb . . Ho 

Malted Milk . . IM 

Tapioca (Minute) . . . 30C 
Apple Tapioca . . . . 30C 
Chocolate Blanc Mange . 301 
Date Tapioca . . 301 

Pineapple Tapioca . 30C 

Plain Tapioca . . . . 30C 
Raspberry Tapioca . 301 

Tapioca Cream .300 

Tapioca Jelly .... 244 

Tea 

Bran Tea 137 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 131 
Tea . . . 13< 

Ginger Tea 137 

Herb Tea 137 

Russian Tea . . 131 

Slippery Elm Tea ... 137 

Tea 131 

Tea Punch 116 

Thickened Milk . 198-23S» 

Toast 255 

Celery Toast .257 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



487 



PAOE 

Toast {continued) 

Clam Broth Toast . . .258 

Cream Toast .... 257 

'* No. II . . 257 

Crisps (Gluten) .256 

Crofltons 229 

French Toast (Diabetic) 258 
Gluten Crisps . . .256 

Milk Toast 257 

Sippets 256 

Toast Crackers .256 

** Sticks .... 256 
" Water .... 126 
Water Toast .... 256 
Tomato Sauce for Fish . 166 
" " (For Maca- 

roni and Noodles) . 245 

Tomatoes 

Baked 270 

Mock Bisque Soup . 227 

Scalloped 271 

Stewed 270 

Soup with Broth ... 226 
Turkey (See PoutTRY) . 152 
Tutti Frutti Punch .117 



V. 



Vanilla Ice Cream . . 307 

Vanilla (Lactose) Ice 

Cream 308 

Veal Broth 220 

Vegetables . 261 

Asparagus on Toast . 268 

, Boiled 267 

Creamed 268 

Beet Greens .... 269 

Carrots 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Cauliflower .... 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Celery 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Dandelion Greens . .269 

Onions 269 

Boiled 269 



(< 



« 



<( 



I 
II 



(( 



t< 



(( 



Vegetables ( continued ) 
Onions, Creamed 
Scalloped 
Peas, Green 

Canned . 
Creamed No. 
Creamed No. 
Potatoes 
Baked . 
Boiled . 
Creamed 
Mashed 

Potato Au Gratin 
Balls 
Cakes, 
Half Shell 
Riced Potatoes 
Surprise Balls 
Spinach 
String Beans 
Tomatoes 
Baked . 
Scalloped . 
Stewed 
Vegetable Sauces 
Cream or White Sauce 

" Sauce No. II 
Parsley Butter 
Vegetables (Thrice Cooked) 
Time Table, Cook- 
ing of 

Victoria Soup .... 

W 

Wafers 

Cheese Wafers . 

Marguerite Wafers 
Water ( Albuminized ) 
Whey .... 

Acid Phosphate 

Lemon 

Liquid Peptonoids with 
Whey 

Wine Whey . 
Whipped Cream 
Whips and Souffles 

Custard Souffle 

Fruit Whip 



page 

. 269 
. 269 
. 269 
. 270 
. 270 

270 
. 265 
. 266 
. 265 
. 267 
. 265 
. 267 
. 267 
. 266 
. 266 
. 265 
. 266 
. 269 
. 270 
. 270 
. 270 

271 
. 270 
. 271 
. 271 
. 271 
, 267 

262 

262 

228 



276 
323 
122 

113 
113 

198 
113 
305 
290 
292 
291 



488 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Whips and Souffles {confd) 



Grape Whip 
Lemon SouflSe . 
Omelet Souffle . 
Peach Meringue 
Strawberry Whip . 
White Sauce fob 

Fish 

Macaroni 

Scalloped Tomatoes 
Vegetables 



291 
292 
292 
293 
291 

165 
245 
271 
271 



PAGE 

Wine Jeixy No. I . . . 2(H 

No. II . . .205 

(Mulled) ... 122 

" Whey li: 

y. 

Yeast 249 

Z. 
ZooiiAK 199 



SoyiBB's 



OLIVE OIL— 

Pure, palatable, nutritious. From full-grown, 

perfectly sound olives. 
MILK SUGAR— 

For modification of milk. Il contains no cane 

sugar, starch or butter-fat. 
CASTOR OIL— 

Because of its purity, it has scarcely any taste. 
SODIUM BICARBONATE— 

Does not contain any potassium salts nor any 

sodium carbonate. 
SODIUM PHOSPHATE— 

May be taken freely without harm, as it docs 

not contain any arsenic. 
ZEVC STEARATE— 

An antiseptic, practically invisible, protective 

dusting powder for infants. It sheds water. 
TALCmi POWDER— 

Pure, soft, unirritating. Contains no cbalk, 

rice powder, or other objectionable sub- 
stances. 
MINERAL OII^ 

Known as Liquid Petrolalum Squibb, Heavy (Cati- 

A pure, odorless, tasteless nuphlhene oil, free 
froniparaffinsandall undesirable compounds, 

ER; Squibb & Sons. New York 



m We know now ai 

^^ that an adequate supply of "chemical foods" y^ 

Q —meaning easily- assimilable forms of calcium, Q 

W» sodium, potassium, manganese, phosphorus, ^m 

1 1 1 and iron — is quite as necessary to ensure I 1 

Mjm proper metabolism, as arc protein, carbohy- ■■ 

FJI drates. or fats. K% 

iWi The so-called " dynamic " action of quinine VMl 

FJV ii"l strychnine renders ihem ralional and rJV 

efficient adjuvants to mineral salts emplojed 
■ e eitKi. 



H Syrup HypophosphitesComp. H 



in which these elements ve combined, has 

demonstrated its practical value during half a 



Fellows' Syrup is bland, stable, oon-irriui 
ing, uniform in composition, and reliable i 



Liliraiurt and SampUi m rtqittil 



FELLOWS MEDICAL MFG. CO, Inc. 

26 diriitopber Stroet Nmr York 



GENERAL INDEX 



A, 

PAGB 

Absorption 35 

of Carbohydrates ... 37 

" Fats 37 

•' Mineral Matter . . 38 

" Protein 36 

" Water 38 

Summary' of .... 38 
Acid Drinks . . 109 

Phosphate 113 

Acidosis 356 

• Dietetic Treatment of . 356 
Acids, Fatty .... 11-12 
Aged, Diet for .... 467 

Ai.BUinN 15 

Cooking of 17 

Effects of Heat on . 17, 178 

Albumins 9 

Albuminoids . . 15, 140 

Albuminous Beverages . 118 
Albuminxtria, Diet in . . 409 
Alcohol 

in Pneumonia .... 350 

" the Sick Room . . . .83 

Alcoholics as Beverages . 24 

ALOiE 284 

Allen's Treatment of Dia- 
betes 350, 350 

Amino-acids . . 14,16,28 

Amusements for Nursing 

Mother 427 

Amtlopsis .... 33-34 

Anabolism 39 

Animal Food (See Albu- 
mins, Proteins, etc.) 4-138 
Digestibility of ... 138 
Disadvantage of- . .138 

Antiscorbutic Property 22 

Antiseptics in Food Pres- 
ervation .... 9.) 
Appendicitis, Diet in . 404 

Appetite (See Digestion) 

in Sickness 75 

Appetizers (See Beverages) 

491 



page 

Apples 278 

Asparagus 265 

Assimilation .... 25 

Baby's Stomach, Capacity 

OF 431 

Baking 89 

Beans (See Legumes) 
Beating in Cookery 90 

Beef 144 

Cuts of . . . .146 

Drippings 12 

E.xtracts 214 

Beef Juice 212 

Absorption of . .213 

Care in Serving .213 

Composition . .212 

Preparations .... 212 
Principles of Cooking . 212 

Raw . 214 

Substitutes for . .213 

vs. Beef Tea . . . .213 

Beef Tea 213 

Composition of ... 213 
Nutritive Value of . .214 
Tests for Good .... 144 
vs. Beef Juice . .213 

vs. Broth 218 

Beets 264 

Beet Sugar (See Sucrose) 5-7 

Beriberi 21 

Beverages . . . 23,24,109 

Acid 110 

" Sweetening of . .110 

Albuminous Beverages . 118 

Alcoholic " . 24 

as Appetizers .... 24 

Bevera(jes, Miscellaneous 127 

Diabetic 110 

Nutritive 24 

Sapid 24 

Special Non-Nutritive . 136 



492 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Beverages {continued) 
Stimulating .... 24 
Thirst Quenching ... 24 
Beverages, Starchy . . 124 

Diabetic 124 

Digestion of .124 

Principles of Cooking . . 124 

Bile 27 

Body, Composition of 17 

Energy Requirements of . 49 

Boiling 89 

Bottle Feeding .... 447 

Braizing 89 

Bran Biscuit for the Dia- 
betic (Atxen) . . , 254 
Cakes for the Diabetic 

(Joslin) 254 

Bread 247 

Composition of . . . 247 
Digestibility of . . . 247 
Energy Value of . .256 

Fermented 249 

Making of 249 

Nutritive Value of . 247 

Puddings 302 

Substitutes for .... 248 

Toasted 255 

Unfermented .... 250 
Breakfast Foods . 235, 242 

Breast Feeding .... 423 
Brigiit's Disease, Acute, 

Diet in 405 

Chronic, Diet .... 400 

Broiling S) 

Bromelin 27S 

Bronchopneumonia, Diet in 350 
Broth 217 



Composition of . . . 
Energy Value of 
Extra Nutriment . 


. 217 
. 218 
. 219 


Meat Jellies 


. 218 


Principles of Cooking . 
vs. Beef Tea 


. 217 

. 218 


Butter 


. 189 


Butterine .... 


12-13 



Buttermilk 190 

C. 
Cabbage 205 



PAGE 

Cake 317 

General Directions for 

Making 317 

Calcium 17-I8 

Calcium Phosphate . . 17 

Calories 46 

Calobimeteb 41 

Cane Sugar 5-7 

Description of . . . 7 

Food Uses of . ... 7 

Sources of 7 

Carbohydrates .... 4 
Absorption of . . . 37 

Classifications of . . . 5 
Definition of .... 4 
Digestion of . ... 29 

Function of 6 

Metabolism of . ... 41 
of Animal Food .138 

Source of % 

Table of Food Percentages 
of . . . 368-371 

Carrots 264 

Casein ....*.' 16,185 

Cauliflower 265 

Celery 265 

Cellulose . . . 5,8,9,235 
Centigrade Scale, Change 

to Fahrenheit ... 106 
Cereal Breakfast Foods . 235 

Cereals 233 

Care of 237 

Composition of .234 

Digestibility of ... 236 
Nutritive Value of . 237 

Principles of Cooking . . 235 

Cheese ig9 

Chicken, How to Select . 153 
Children (See also Young 

Children) 455-4IS0 

Children, Feedi.no Sick . 460 

of School Age, Diet of . 459 

Chlorides 18 

Chocolate 129 

Compared with Tea and 

Coffee 130 

Nutritive Value of .130 
Principles of Cooking of 130 
Source of 129 



GENERAL INDEX 



493 



PAGE 
ClJ^NAMON 23 

Clams 168 

Varieties of .... 168 

Cix>VES 24 

Cocoa 129 

with Lactose .133 

CoDLiVER Oil 12 

Coffee, Effects cf . . . 128 
Active Principles of . . 128 

Effect of 128 

Sources of 128 

with Lactose .133 

Colic in Children, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . . 460 
Collagen .... 15, 140 

Colostrum 427 

Condiments 23 

Classification of . . 23 

Constipation, Diet in . . 396 
in the Mother .... 426 
" " Nursling, Treat- 
ment of . . . 463 
Consumption ( See Tuber- 
culosis) 
Convalescence, Diet in . . 330 
Cooking 

Beating in 90 

Blending in .... 90 

Cutting in 90 

Folding in 90 

Methods of .... 88 
Objective Points of . .88 
Principles of .... 89 
Processes, Objects of . .89 
Principal . . 89 

Stirring in 90 

Success -in 88 

Suggestions in Methods of 
Working in . .90 

Crackers 260 

Cream 185, 18D 

Curds 190 

Softening 190 

Custard, Soft, with Lac- 
tose 287 

Cutting in Cookery . . 90 

D, 

Dairy Products, Tarle of, 



PAGE 

WITH Carbohydrate 

Content (Allen) . . 369 

Dessert, Frozen . . . 306 

Desserts, Nutritious . . 306 

Dextrin .... 8-11-29 

Dextrose 6-29 

Description of ... . 6 

Sources of 6 

Use in the Diet ... 6 

Diabetes 366 

Allen's Starvation Treat- 
ment of 356 

Carbohydrate Feeding in . 357 

Diet in 356 

Green Days .... 372 
Joslin's Preparatory Treat- 
ment of 356 

Low Priced Dietary in . 367 

Oatmeal Days .... 370 

Test Diet in . . . .361 

Diabetic Chart (Joslin) . 357 

Diarrhea, Diet in . . . 399 

in Young Children, Diet in 462 

Diet 

Adequate 22 

After Laparotomy . 416 

Animal, Disadvantages of 

Exclusive . . . .139. 
Carbohydrate Free . 376 

Comparative Value, Ani- 
mal vs. Vegetable . . 233 
Convalescent (Einhorn) . 330 
** General ( New 

York Hosp.) . 330 
" Special (New 

York Hosp.) . 331 

Diabetic 356 

Enteric 401 

Essentials of an Adequate 

Diet 21 

Fluid 323 

Full .... 325 
" (Einhorn) . 326 
" High Calory . . 327 
" Low Nutritive 

Value (Einhorn) 324 
" Medium ... 324 
" " (Einhorn) 325 

" Mixed .... 346 



494 



GENERAL INDEX 



(f 






PAGE 

BncT (ooniinued) 

" without Nutritive 

Value (Einhorn) 323 
High Calorie in Typhoid . 340 
Hospital, Types of . . 323 
House, Regular (New 

York Hospital) 332 
Special (New York 
Hospital) . . 332 

Ideal 233 

Duct in Acute Bbioht's 

Disease 405 
" Gastritis . 386 
'' Rheumatism 380 
" Adolescence . . 465 
" Appendicitis . 404 
" Albuminuria . 409 
Diet in Bronchopneumonia 350 
" Cancer ... 412 
" Chronic Gastritis 385 
Gout . 379 
" Chronic Intestinal 
Nephritis (N. 
Y. Postgraduate 
Hospital) . . 408 
in Parenchymatous Ne- 
phritis (M*. Y. Postgrad- 
uate Hospital) . 407 
in Colic in Children .460 
in Colitis, Ulcerative 

( Mass. General Hospital ) 400 
in Constipation . 306 
in Constipation (Massa- 
chusetts General Hos- 
pital) 398 

in Convalescence from Fe- 
ver .... 330,335 
in Convalescence from Gas- 
tric Diseases (Dr. T. C. 
Janeway) .... 395 
in Convalescence from Ty- 
phoid Fever .... 344 

in Diarrhea 399 

in Diarrhea in Young Chil- 
dren 462 

in Diphtheria .... 348 

in Disease 334 

in Diseases of the Genito- 
urinary System . . 405 
in Disorders of Nutrition 356 



Diet (continued) 
in Dysentery . . 
in Dyspepsia . . 
in Fevers . . . 
in Gastric Diseases 
in Gastric Hyperacid 
in Gastric Ulcer (se 

cer of Stomach) 
in Gout .... 
in Infectious Diseasi 
in Intestinal Disease 
in Intestinal Putrefi 
in Lithemia . . 
in Lying-in Period 
in Aiarasmus in Infi 
in Mumps 

in Nervous Disorder) 
in Obesity . 
in Obesity (Massach 

General Hospital) 
in Old Age . 
in Oxaluria (Mast 

setts General Hos 
in Pneumonia . 
in Prematurity 
in Pregnancy . 
in Quinsy . 
in Rickets in Infantf 
in Scurvy in Infants 
in Seasickness . 
in Skin Diseases 
in Surgical Cases 
in the Sedentary 
in Tonsilitis 
in Tuberculosis (espe 

Pulmonary Com 

tion) 

in Typhoid . 

in Typhoid Late C 

lescent (Dr. F. P. 

nicutt) 
Ulcer of the Stomac 
in Ulcer of the St< 

( Lenhartz ) 
in Ulcer of the St< 

(Massachusetts G 

Hospital ) 
in Ulcer of the St« 

(Dr. T. C. Janewa 
in Ulcerative Colitie 






-i_' X 



'IX 



4i'% 



/«t' »'*.?.•: 



li^i 



i> 



i' w 



^'::-i.s7::>" 



zlxs^ZZ^ ir* ■.TA^'Til I 






:?> 



s^« r.-i 


^ 


■"' .~. r- 
• _■ • 


12 " ' 


. 


. 323 


x: ::u-:ve 




4" 


• • ■ 


■ 


. :'24 
. . 327 


. 




. 2:j 


Iu:d* . 




. .:.46 



i T12 MotLer 



Tv- 
32 S 



"s. Tr.t*-i*ina» Mr»di- 
^fass. GenT Hosp. i 

S€riDi-solid 
>r Typlioid Conva- 



34 2 

4iri 

407 
4fi2 

403 
32^ 



Its 


344 


\on in Dialjeteri 357. 


.3.ifi 


ion in Tvpljoid 


337 


We vs. Animal . 


233 


trw 


375 




403 


:s FOR Young Chil- 




'...... 


457 


al . ! . 323 


-333 


■/. 


23 


ion of ... . 


23 


X .... 


25 


ices of in the Sick . 


74 


bohyd rates . 


29 


s 


29 


tein 


25 


'* in Intestines . 


27 


'* in Stomach 


25 


' Products of 20 


, 28 


'* Summary of . 


28 


rch 


29 


Products of 


30 


Summary of . 


30 






01 






r.v: r 

SI 
SI 



i^t^..".l' O. 

D:fhthei::a. I'ikt :n 

l):^L.K>y. AkVty. Vrv.ryc ":n 
Disinfection of I'TF.Nsir. s 
Dkinks. Av ii> 
Cold :i::d H-.-t . 

Db1PFINi.>. r.iltF . 

Dkvgs ANi> MoniFu's MiiK 4,:'. 
Dey Milk. U'8. 1j^<. -Jl'.^ 'Jl.l^ 4^7 

DY.SENTFKY Ai I 1 1 \. Ol 1- 



o4> 



>4 
I ->t 



TIS . OlKl IN 

DYSPEr>iA, DiKr in 

F. 

Eggs .... 
Composition i»t 
Cook in jr of . 
Digostilulity oi 
Energy A'tiluo of 



. . i: 

5S. r.S. 17" 



r:: 

i:< 

ITS 

4 . 



Nutritive Vahio of 
Principles fi»r Cov^Niiij; 
Suji^post ions Coiu'orniiiu 
Tost for Erosh 
Variotios of 

EXKRGY V.Vl IK or I'OvM^ iS 

Determination oi 

TvciiuironuMits i^t 
E.NTKRic Out 
Equivai.kn Ts. Taiu k ok Mr 

TRU' .... 

Erepsin 

Excretion .... 
ExTUAiTiVKs, \ 1 1 Kin;r\ 

CIS . . . lo. ISS. 144 
Extracts. Ki.axokino . *J4 

Faiikeniii:it s^ai k. Cuan«k. 

to Ckntiorahk . . lOrt 

FastiN(; Tkkatmknt ok Dia 

iirrKs .... :\M\ 359 

Fat 11 

Al»sor|)tioii of . 37 



4iM 



liM 

•;s 

4^ 



496 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Fat {continued) 

Animal 138 

Cheap forms of .12 
Definition of .... 11 
Description of . 11 

Digestibility .... 13 
Digestion of .... 29 
Function of .... 13 
Metabolism of . 41 

Percentages in Modified 

Milk 444 

Sources of . 12 

Tests for 14 

vs. Carbohydrate as Food 13 
Value of in Tubercu- 
losis .... 363-354 
Feeding, Details of . . 76 

Forced 78 

in Acute Disease ... 73 
Infant .... 422-454 
" Artificial 433, 437, 454 
Breast .... 423 
Feeding, Formulas for 443-440 
" Normal and Abnor- 
mal .... 450 
" Top Milk Method of 444 

Nasal 79 

of older Infants . 451 

'* Young Children 455-460 

Rectal 79 

Sick Children . 400-463 

the Helpless Patient . . 78 
" Sick .... 72-84 
*' Sleeping Patient . . 78 
" Unconscious Patient 78 
Fever, Diet in . . 334 

Diet in Convalescence from 335 
Diet in Typhoid (see Ty- 
phoid Fever) . 

Fibrin 138 

Figs 278 

Fish, Fresh 159 

Composition of . . . 160 
Digestibility of ... 159 
Energy Value of . 53, 161 
Nutritive Value of . 160 
Objective Points and Meth- 
ods 161 

Principles of Cooking . 161 
Sauces 165 



PAGE 



ii 



n 



t( 



of 



Fish, Fbesh (continued) 

Season for 

Tables of Carbohydrate 
Percentages in (Allen) 
Test for Freshness of . 

'Fish, Salt 

Fletcher, Mr., ox Mastica- 
tion 

Folding ix, ix Cookery 
Flour, Kinds . . . . 
Food 

Accessories 

Adjuncts .... 
Adulteration of 
Animal 

Carbohydrates 
Composition of 
Digestibility of 
Extractives of . 
Mineral Matter of 
Animal, Proteins . 
Water of 
Care of . 

" in Markets and 
Kitchens 
Chemical Composition 

4, 11, 14, 17 
Classification of 
Composition of 
Concentration of 
Definition of 

Determination of Energy 

Value of . . . 
Effects of Heat on 
Fly Pollution of . 
Functions of 
How to Serve . 
Methods of Cooking 
Liquid (Fluid) 
Nitrogenous 

Classification of 
Source of 



161 

m 
w 

30 

90 

249 

23 

23 
07 

m 

13S 
1.3.0 

w 

13S 

1.1!> 

92 

92 

, 10 
4 

0.> 
3 



n 



(t 



Non-Nitrogenous 
Perfect Food 
Poisoning 
Predigestion of 
Preservation 



« 



by Antiseptics 
*^ Drying . 



47 

04 
.V4 

S6 

4-14 

4 

14 

4-Jl 
22 

u^ 
in; 

!!."> 

Oo 
95 



GENERAL INDEX 



497 



PAGE 

Food (continued) 

Preservation by Exclusion 

of Air . 95 
'* Freezing . 95 
Quantity and Quality of, 

for Sick 76 

Soft (Semi-Solid) . . 328 

Source of 4 

Storage of 93 

Temperature of, for Sick 70 
Values . . . . 43, 53, 71 
Vegetables ..... 2:U 
Carbohydrates of 232 
Composition of 18-10 
Digestibility of . 232 
" Fats of . . . 232 
" Mineral Matter of 232 
" Protein of . . 232 
Water of . . 232 
Washing of Uncooked 93 
Food Accessoeies or Ad- 
juncts 23 

Definition of .... 23 

Food Values 43 

Average Normal Output 

of Heat from Body . 51 

Determination of Knergy 

Value of . . '. 47 

Energy Requirements of 

the Body 49 

Energy Value of ... 45 
Nitrogen Balance ... 43 
Nitrogen Equilibrium 43 

Value According to Indi- 
vidual Serving . 53-71 
Values Tabulation of . 53-71 

FOBMULiE FOB INFANT FEED- 
ING 443 

Fowl, How to Select . .153 
Fbeezino, General Rules 

FOB 307 

in Small Amounts . 307 

Fbicasseeing .... 89 

Fbutts 270 

as Ballast 279 

Composition of . . . 276 
Digestibility of . . . 277 

Dried 279 

Flavoring Principle of .277 



PAGE 

Fruits ( continued ) 

( Fresh ) and Vegetables, 

Agreement between . 278 
Fuel Value of ... . 278 
Nutritive Value of . 278 

Precaution in Use of . 279 
Sugar-content of . . . 277 
Table of, with Carbohy- 
drate Contents . . 369 
Fruit Sugar (See Levu- 
lose) .... 5-7-32 

Frying 89 

Fungi 284 

O. 

Galactose 31 

Game (See Poultry) . 

Gastric Juice .... 26 

Ulcer 389 

" Diet in . . 389-395 

Gastritis, Acute, Diet in . 385 

Chronic, Diet in . . . 385 

Gavage 461 

Gelatix 203 

Digestibility of . . . 203 
Meat Jellies .... 204 
Nutritive Value of . 203 

Principles of Cooking . . 203 

Source of 203 

Gelatixoids . . . 140-203 

Ginger 23 

Gliadin 16 

Glucose (See Dextrose) . 
Gluten Bread . . 249-252 

Glycogen 5-8 

Gout, Acute, Diet in . . 377 
Chronic, Diet in . . . 379 
Gbape Sugar (See Dex- 
trose) .... 6-29 

Grapes 277 

Gbuels ... 236,238 
Gums 5-8-9 



//. 



Heat, Average Normal 
Output from Body 51 

Effects of on Albumin . 178 
Helpless, Feeding the . 78 



498 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

horse-badish .... 24 
Hospital Dietaries 323-333 
House Diet, Regular . . 332 

Special 332 

Hydrochloric Acid . . 26-27 

/. 

Ideal Diet 233 

Ice Box and Contents . 91 
" Home Made . . 437 

Ice Cream 307 

Vanilla, with Lactose . 308 

Ice, Keeping of in Sick 
Room 83 

Ices 313 

Infant Feeding .... 422 
Artificial . . . . . 433 

Breast 423 

Calorie Values of . . . 445 
Fat Percentages in . . .444 
Formulae for .... 443 

Normal 450 

Table of Proportions for 
Healthy Child . . 457 

Intestinal Diseases, Diet 

IN 396 

Iron 18 

J. 

Jellies, Meat . . .221 
Starchy 244 

Joslin's Treatment of Dia- 
betes 356 

JncR, Gastric .... 26 

Intestinal 27 

Pancreatic 27 

Junket .... 190, 293 
with Lactose .... 294 

K. 

Katabolism 39 

Kefir 192 

KUMYSS 191 

L. 

Lactalbumin .14, 15, 185 

Lactase 31, 186 

Lactose 6, 185 

Bread Pudding . . . 304 
Lemonade Ill 



PA(2 

Lamb 145 

Cuts of 148 

Tests for Good ... 145 
Laparotomy, Diet After . 415 

Lavage 461 

Lecithix 12 

Legumes 263 

Composition of ... 263 
Digestibility of ... 263 
Principles of Cooking . 263 

Levulose 5-7-32 

Levulose .... 5-7-32 

Lichens 2&4 

Lipase 29 

LiTHEMiA, Diet ix . ! . 376 
Lyinq-In Period, Diet in . 419 

Macaroni .... 235-245 
Magnesium . . . . 17-lS 

Phosphate 18 

Malt Suoab ( See Maxtose) 5-2!» 

Maltase 2» 

Malted Milk . 192-r.M 

;Maltose .... 5-*29 

Maple Sugar (SeeSucbo.se) 5-7 
Marasmus nx Infa.xt.s, Die- 
tetic Treatment of . 4C3 

^Mastication 3i» 

;NL\tzoon i{»2 

Measures 9s 

Apothecaries' .... UR» 
Approximate .... l<w 
of Volume, Metric System 101 
" Weight, Metric System 101 

Table of 99 

Measuring Cup, Standard iw 

Meat 140 

Absorption of . .141 

Broiling of 142 

Composition of . .140 

Cooking 142 

Cuts of . . 143, 146 

Digestibility of . . . 141 
Effect of Cooking ... 141 
Effects of Water on .145 

Energy Value of . . I4i» 

Meat Jellies 204,218.221 

Methods in Cooking .142 



GENERAL INDEX 



Mkat (coniiBuerf) 

Nutritivi.' Value of . . 140 

Quality of 143 

Table of, witli Carbohy- 
drate Content (Allen) 3GS 

Uncooked 141 

Uetabolisji 3!) 

of CarbohydrateB ... 41 

"Fat 41 

" Protein ..... 40 

Metapboteiks .... 15 

MCTBic System .... 101 

Milk as a Bevbb.\ge 24 

Ash of ... . 185, 180 

Care of 187 

Certification of . . . 187 
Composition of . . . 184 

Condensed 192 

Difference between Human 

and Cow'e .... 434 
DigeBtihiiity of . . . 185 

Dry Milk 103 

Energy Value of . . . 1B3 
Fata of ... . 185, 186 
(See Cream, Butter). 

Fermented 191 

Formulas from Wliole . 444 
Home JVIodi flea lion . . 440 
Human. Diu^h in . . . 421 
MalttJ Milk . . 10-2-194 

lletschnikoff'H Artificially 

Soured 101 

Modification .... 439 
" what Dilution 

to Uee . . 440 

ModiRed lua 

Mother's, Composition of 434 
Nutritive Value of . .185 
Pasteurization of . . . 188 
Peptonized . . . 102,439 

Protein 439 

Quantity to Use in Infant 

Feeding 431 

Skimmed 18fi 

Sour 100 

Sterilization of . . . 188 
Top, Modification . . .444 
Whole, Modified . . . 440 



Milk Sugar (See Lac- 
tose) .... 8-185 
MiNEBAL Matter ... 17 
Absorption of / . .38 

Amount and Kind of in 

Bodj' 17 

Function of .... IB 
Occurrence in Food . 18 

in Plants . . 18 
" in Animal Food 

IS, 139 
Source of 13 

MOWOSACCLUBIDLS ... 6 

Moss, Iceland. Irish . . 285 

MOUTtr, Cl.EANSl.NO OF, BE- 
FORE Feeihsq ... 77 

Mumps, Diet i.v , . . . 351 

MusHnoous 284 

Mustard 24 

MtrrroN 146 

Cuts of 149 

Test for Good .... 145 
Miosis 140 



Nasal Feeding 

Nervous Disoboers, Diet ii 

NiTBOGEN Balance . . 

NiTBOOESOlla 
NUCLEOPBOTELN 



3 Hoi- 
Mother, Diet of 
Schedule of 

Technique c^f . 

NUEf 



. 427 



Childrex) . 

NCT BuiTEBS .... 283 
Flours 293 

Nutmeg 24 

NoTRiTio.v 25 

Conditions for Perfect 22-23 
Diet in Disorders of . . 33C 

Nuts 283 

Composition of . . . 283 

Cooking of 283 

Digestibititv of , . . 284 
Nutritive Value of . .294 



500 



GENERAL INDEX 



0. 

Obesity, Diet in 

Oils . . .% . 

Volatile .^ . 



PAGE 

... 382 

... 11 

. . . 12 

Olein 12 

Oranges . . . . 277 
Oleomabgarin 12-13 

Onions 264 

Organic 4 

Inorganic 4 

Ovariotomy, Diet after . 415 

Oysters 166 

Composition of . . . 167 

Digestibility of . . . 167 
Energy Value of . . .169 

Principles for Cooking . 167 

Season for 167 

Variety of 168 

P. 

Palmitin 12 

Pancreas, Internal Secre- 
tion OF AND Diabetes . 356 
Pancreatic Juice ... 27 

Parsnips 264 

Pasteurization .... 193 
Apparatus for .... 194 
Peas (See Legumes) . 
Pectin Bodies .... 277 

Pepper 24 

Pepsin 26 

Action of 26 

Peptones .... 15-26-28 
Peptonization .... 192 
Percentage Solutions, Ta- 
bles for Preparing . 104 
PnosPiioRus . 12-17-18 

Physicians' Directions for 

Feeding the Sick . 72 



Pineapples 
Pneumonia, Alcohol in 

Diet in . . . 
Polysaccharides 
Pork .... 
Potassium 
Potatoes . 

Energy Value of 

POITLTRY 

Digestibility of 



. 278 
. 350 
. 349 
5-8-9 
. 145 
17-18 
. 264 
. 205 
. 152 
. 152 



PAGE 

PouLTBY (continued) 

General Rule of Cleaning 153 

Principles of Cooking . 153 

Test for Selecting ... 153 

Pregnancy, Diet in . . 417 

Vomiting of, Diet in . . 418 

Prematurity, Feeding in . 462 

Protein 

Absorption of . ... 36 

Acid 27 

Alkaline 28 

Animal 138 

Chemical Nature ... 14 
Classification ... 14 

Cooking of 17 

Derived Proteins ... 15 
Difference in Value in 

Nutrition ... 16 

Digestion, Table of . . 28 
Effect of Temperature on 17 
Function of .... 15 
in Tuberculosis ... 352 
Metabolism of . . . 40 

Milk 439 

Nitrogenous Extractions . 15 
Simple Proteins ... 15 

Source of 14 

Vegetable 14 

Proteoses .... 15-28 

Prunes 278 

Ptomaine Poisoning . . 93 

Ptyalin 29 

Puddings, Bread .302 

Punctuality in Serving 

Meals 7.) 

PURINS 15 

Putrefaction, Intestinal, 
Diet in 403 



Questions for Review 106-106c 

320a-320c 
Quinsy, Diet in . . . « 347 



R. 



Radishes . 

Rectal Feeding 
Formulae for 
Technique of 



. 264 
79-83 

. 82 
. 81 



GENERAL INDEX 



601 



PAGE 

Reflex, Pharyngeal 30 

Pyloric 27 

Regurgitation .... 460 

Rennix 26 

Rheumatism, Acute, Diet in 380 
Chronic, Diet in . . . 3S1 

Rice 234 

Rickets ix Infants, Die- 
tetic Treatment of . 463 
Roots 263 

fif. 

Saccharin .... 8-240 
Salad Dressings . 272 

Salads 272 

Salsify 204 

Salt (See Sodium Chlor.) 24 
Sanatogen 399, 401, 411, 411) 

Sandwiches 258 

Sauces 23 

Savory Double Boiler 89-511 
Scurvy, Infantile, Die- 
tetic Treatment of 22, 463 
Seasickness. Dietetics of 418 
Sedentary, Diet of . . . 466 

Shell-Fish 166 

Sherbets 312 

Sick, Appetite of ... 75 

Feeding the .... 72 

Room, Alcohol or Ice . 83 

Skin Diseases, Diet in .411 

Sodium 17-18 

Chloride 18 

" as a Condiment 24 

SoLT> 223 

Accompaniments . 229 

General Rule for Blending 223 

Sov Beans 249 

Spices 23 

Spinach 265 

Starch 8 

Chemical Principles . 10 

Cooking of 9 

Description of ... . 8 
Digestion of .... 29 
Mechanical Principles 10 

Other Polysaccharides 9 

Source of 9 

Test for 11 



Starchy Beverages 

Diabetic 

Digestion 

Principles of Cooking 
Starchy Jellies 



Starvation Diet in Diabetes 356 



Steak, Broiled . 
Steaming .... 
Steapsin (See Lipase) 
Stearin .... 
Sterilization 
Stewing .... 
Stirring in Cookery 
Stomach .... 

Capacity of Baby's 

Fundus of . . . 

Pyloric Sphincter of 

Tube, Use of 
Sucr.ase .... 
SircROSK .... 

Description of . 

Source .... 

Use in Diet 
Sugar 

Description of . 

Dietetic Uses of 

Digestion of 

Invert .... 

of Milk (See Lactose 

Source .... 

Starvation 

Substitutes for 

Syrup .... 

Tests for 

Use in Diet 
Sulphur .... 



Sltigical Cases, Dietetic 



of 



Management 
Sweetbreads . 
Definition of 
Digestibility of 
Energy Value of 
sweetina . 
Syrup, Sugar 

T, 



Tallow .... 

Tea 

Active Principles of 



PAGE 

124 
124 
124 
124 
244 



149 

89 

29 

12 

194 

89 

90 

25 

431 

26 

27 

79 

31 

7 

7 

7 

7 

6 

6 

6 

31 

277 



7 
359 
8-249 
110 
8 
7 
17-18 



. 413 

. 200 

. 200 

. 200 

. 201 
8-249 

. 110 



12 
127 
127 



502 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Tea {continued) 

Classes of 127 

Effects of 128 

Source of 127 

Test Diet in Diabetes 361-367 

" Intestinal . . 402 

Thebmometby . . .106 

Top Milk Method . . . 444 

Toast 255 

Tray 85 

Arrangement of ... 86 

Tubers (See Roots) . . 263 

Tuberculosis, Diet in 352-354 

Typhoid Fever, Diet in 337-347 

Fluid .... 342-347 

High Calory .... 340 

Liberal 338 

Soft or Convalescent . . 344 



U, 



Ulcer, Gastric, Diet in 389-395 
Convalescence from . 395 

Convalescence, Lenhartz 

Diet in 

Convalescence, Mass. Gen- 
eral Hospital, Diet in 
Unconscious, Feeding the 
Uric Acid Excess (See 

LiTHEMIA ) . 

Utensils, Disinfection of 



293 

393 

78 



84 



y. 



Veal 144 

Test for Good . . . .145 
Vegetable Sauces . . .271 
Vegetables .... 4-231 
Classification of . . . 261 
Comparative Value, Ani- 
mal vs. Vegetable . . 233 
Composition of . 231-261 
Digestibility of 232-262 

■Green 265 

Principles of Cooking . 262 
Table of, with Carbohv- 

drate Content (Allen) 368 
Thrice Cooked, for the 

Diabetic (Joslin) 262,360 
Time Table Cooking of 262 



PAGE 

Vinegar u 

Viscera, Animal, Food 

Uses of 144 

Vitamines . 4-13-21-22-232 
Antiscorbutic Property . 22 
Volatile Oils . ... 12 
Vomiting. Diet in . . . 418 
in Young Children, Die- 
tetic Treatment of . .460 



W. 



Wafers 
Water 

Absorption of . 

Boiled . . . 

Composition of 

Content of Food 

Functions of 

in Animal Food 

Properties of 
Weaning . 

from Bottle 
Weighing of Baby 
Weight of Infant 
Old Men 

" Women 

Weights .... 

Apothecaries', Table 
Wet Nurse . 

Diet of ... . 
Whooping Cough, Diet 



(( 



it 



of 



. 260 
. 19 
. 38 
. 20 
. 19 
. 20 
. 20 
. 139 
. 19 
. 453 
. 454 
. 433 
. 432 
. 469 
. 469 

98-101 
. 99 
. 419 
. 419 

IN 351 



Y. 



Young Children, Caloric 

Requirements of . .457 
Dietaries for .... 457 
Feeding of, General Rules 

for 456 

Percentagre Requirements 

of Food 457 

Protein Requirement of . 459 
Sick, General Principles 

of Feeding .... 460 

. Z. 

Zein 16 

Zwieback U 



It is delicious, pure and healthful 



L 



Baker's 

Breakfast 

Cocoa 

EXCELS IN ALL THE 
ESSENTIALS OF A 
GOOD COCOA 
[' 1ms the delicious natural 
fliivorof the best cocoa beans, 
ii.'iitifically blended, utiim- 
ireil by the addition of any 
foreign flavoring substances. 
;. Its purity is unquestioned, 
samples purchased in the 
Blistered U. S.T^t. Oflico "^'en market serving as 
standards for chemical re- 
search. It is healthful, supplying the body with some 
of the purest elements of nutrition in a most agreeable 
form. These qualities combine to make it the ideal 
food beverage. 

S7 HIGHEST AWARDS IN EUROPE AND AMEJUCA 

WALTER BAKER & CO. LTD. 
EatablUhed 1780 DORCHESTER. MASS. 




HORSFORD'S 

Acid Phosphate 

The nurse is justified in recom- 
mending the use of Horsford's 
Acid Phosphate as a sickroom bev- 
erage. As a basis for albuminous 
drinks and fruit punches, or simply 
added to the patient's drinking- 
water, it affords tAvelcome change 
to the invalid on a Hmited or pre- 
scribed diet. 

TheNurseHerself 

will find in Horsford's Add Phosphate a 
relief from many of the conditions brought 
on by overwork and the so-called brain- 
fag." Non-alcoholic, and containing no 
narcotics, it nevertheless has a refreshing 
and stimulating effect in cases of reduced 
nerve energy. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 
Providence, R. I. 




Substitution 

The Kewpie idea of substituting good food 
for medicine in the case of Dorothy, who is just 
getting over the measles, is worth more consid- 
eration than it receives. 



JELL'O 



is used in hundreds of hospitals, as well as mil- 
lions of homes, and the saving in time and money 
and the satisfaction assured are matters of uni- 
versal interest No other dish is quite so easy 
to prepare and so appetizing and delicious when 
made, as JelI-0. 

Made in six flavors: Raspberry, Strawberry, 
Lemon, Orange, Chocolate, Cherry. 



NURSES' JOURNAL 



Send your subscription to 

A. ¥. Pattee 

MOUNT VERNON 
NEW YORK 



The American Journal Of Nursing (issued 

monthly) per year 2.50 

The Trained Nurse (issued monthly) per year 2.50 

The Canadian Nurse (issued monthly) per 

year 2.00 

The Pacific Coast Journal of Nursing 

(issued monthly) per year 1»50 

The Modern Hospital (issued monthly) per 

year 3*00 

American National Red Cross (issued 

monthly) per year 2*00 

The American Cookery Magazine (issued 

monthly) per year 1»50 



506 




Gordon £-Dilworth 
CALF'S FOOT JELLIES 

This parlicular form of appetizing nourish- 
ment is prescribed by doctors, and u&ed ex- 
tensively in hospitals, as the mosc nourishing 
food for invalids, especially in. cases where the 
Stomach will not retain more solid foods. 

Patients have thrived upon it, alone, for Ion); 
periods, with an appreciable gain in strength. 



Sen 


ed with shaved or -cracked ic 


, it will be 


found 


empting to a poor appetite. 


At a tern- 


perature of 60 degrees, it becomes 


a delicate 


jelly which will dissolve ^joicldy when placed 


on the 


tongue: 

(In l-lf.[d« uid pint ■!» 





Gordon &Dilworth 

616-620 West 46th Street 

NEW "YORK 



NURSES' JOURNAL 
COMBINATION OFFERS 

The Folh-w'ing Offirs At>ply to New Subscriptions Only 

The American Journal of Nursing (2.50) 
and one copy of 
Patiee's Practical Dietetics (2.25) . . . 4.25 

The Trained Nurse (2.50) and one conv of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics {2.2S) . . . .4.25 

The Canadian Nurse (2.00) and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.25) . . . .3.75 

The Pacific Coast Journal of Nursing 

(1.50) and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.25). . . .3.25 

The Modern Hospital (3.00) and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.25) . . . .4.75 

American National Ked Cross (2.00) and 

one copyof Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.25)3.75 

The American Cookery Magazine ( 1. 50) 

and one copy of 

Pattee's Practical Dietetics (2.25). . . .3^ 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South Firtt Avenue 
Mount Veroon.N. Y. 



For the Sick, Convalescent or Well there it 
oo finer energy producing food than 

Minute Tapioca 

Its food value is parbcularly important because 
of its ready digestibility and its easy conversion 
into bodily energy. Minute Tapioca is as pure 
as tapioca can possibly be made and ii so pre- 
pared that it soften* immediately, thus making 
it very desirable when a particularly nourishing 
and healthful dessert is required quickly. 

Try the Minute Tapioca recipes in this book. 
A section of our Minute Cook Book is de- 
voted to recipes of some especially dainty, 

nourisliing desserts for the sick 

room. 

It is yours for the asking. 

Also a Free sample for your 

grocer's name. 



At AU Good Grocers 
Minute Tapioca Co. 

223 W. Mun Si. 
Oraage, ... Mkm. 




New Book By Mary Swartz Rose 

AMiEtant Profe«»or, Department of Nutrition, Teacher's 
College, Columbia Uiii*eriity 

FEEDING THE FAMILY 



By Ma 



■ Swartz Rose 



This is a clear iiid concise account in simple everyday te 
of the ways in which modem knowledge of ihe science of nti 
tion may be afiplied in ordinary life. The food necdt of the 
different members of the typical family group — men, women, 
infants, children of various agea — are discussed in separate chap- 
ters, and many concrete illustrations in the form of food plans 
and dietaries are included. The problems of the housewife in 
trying to reconcile the needs of different ages and tastes at 
same table are also taken up, as are the cost of food and the c 
stnictioo of menus. A final chapter deals with feeding the si 

Probably no publication in this field of recent date lias found 
such instant favor and been so widely received. It surpaattes all 
previous efforts at a practical, non-technical, but tharoughly 
scientific, presentation of the subject of nutrition. Ita use by 
house^vcs and college classes is equally successful. 
449 p&Re*. llluitrated, IZ" $2.10 



A LABORATORY MANUAL OF DIETETICS 

By Marv Swartz Rose 

A series of definite exeroiies for laboratory work in dietetici, 

accompanied by problems and explanations of calculations. 

There is also included a series of reference tables giving food 

ralues, for use in laboratory calculations, which are in a m 

It form than can be found elsewhere. 



127pa7es, 8° $1.10 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
PUBUSHERS NEW YORK 



Ll 



510 



Your First Aid, Your Chief Help 

— a "Diet Kitchen" on the Case 




In Hospitals foods are stcam- 
noied. There you have "Diet 
Kitchens" to simplify the exact- 
ing work of providing the proper 
iaoAs fraperlj prepared. 

"On the case" you know how 
very different it is] Here, in the 
average home you have M "Diet 
Kitchen" conveniences — to say 
nothing of even such jirj/ niassitits, 
tothe hospital, as ' 'steam cooking' ' . 



easy matter while you are on the 
case but you vill have conferred a 
lailing bmefit on the household tor 
the '^SAVORY" steam-cooking 
Douhle Boiler makes for every- 
day -of-thc -year help and health. 
Your services, in introducing, 
this utensil alone, will long be re- 
membered to your credit. 

Liifat. rKf to nee. alwari mdr- die 



FREE FOLDER, explaininjr 
this utensil, will be gladly sent you 
on request. Specify '^'SAVORY," 
ask for it su your local dealer (if 
he is unable to furnish, write us 
and we will see that yoiL are 
promptly supplied.) Buy today your 

"SAVORY" 

Double Boiler 

"SAVEwilh *"■* aSAVOBY-l 



Mtnlun, "apprtiKEne" 



THE, REPUBLIC METALWARE CO. 

Maktt afSlml Mclal Ukmik for Ihc Horn Since IS36 
97 HCPU&LIC STREET BUFFAt.0, NEW YORK 

SIL 





* 



LIQUID PEPTONOIDS 

Emergency nutnent and dietetic auxiliary 
— Offering immediately available car- 
bohydrales — nitrogen — energy. 

AMINOIDS 

For rectal feeding — Offers the only 
form of nitrogen capable of absorption 
from the colon-viz. amino-acid nitrogen. 

CULTOL 

(Bacillus bulgaricus in Petrolatum) 
Empties the bowels and destroys putre- 
factive bactena — without drugs. 

LACTOPEPTINE 

Aids and supports digestive processes 
throughout the alimentary tract. 

HEMABOLOIDS 

Reconstructive hematinic — bland — pal- 
atable— nonstyptic. 

BOROLYPTOL 

A non-toxic — pleasant germicidal moutli 
wash — based on formaldehyde. 



The Arlington Chemical Company 

The New York Pharmacal Association 

The Palisade Manufacturing Company 

Yonkers, N. Y. 



I 



State Board 

Requirements f^ Examination 
Qu^fistions in Dietetics 



Va. 



states 



A practical little work giving antlmtic 
outlines anowing the requirementa in di^ 
itcUci oi ttc i.nou> Sutc BouJ. of 
Examiners oi INuraes ; a.na tha exaiiiina- 
tian queatioaa in ciietetica actually DjeJ 
\>y the variDua states. TLe examination 
questions for several years past are ffivcn. 
Xbis ^vill materially aid tne Supenn- 
tendent or Dietitian in arranging tLe 
course oi study for tbe nurse so as to 
prepare ter ade quately for her state 
examination. This Supplement is given 
complimentary 'witn each copy of Pattee** 
Practical Dietetica (not sold separately). 

Price — 13tli edition Pattee's Practical Die- 
tetics and Supplement (State Board Rf 
quirements and examination Cjueation* in 
DUttrin). $2,25, Poitpui 



A, F. PATTEE, Pal,li.I,„ 

134 Smtl Fiot Avenue. Mount Vernon. N. Y, 



Burnham* s 
Clam Bouillon 




is a delicious, nourishing and 
absolutely sterile prei>aralion 
of Clams manufactured by 
our own process, without the 
use of any preservative save 
bottling with heat. The con- 
tainers are of glass, pints and 
hLdf pints. 

Tne delicate flavor and odor 
from Clam Bouillon is what 
renders it so palatable ajid re- 
freshing to an invali'l, and on 
account of its digestive and 
stimulating properties entitles 
it to the highest recommenda- 
A person having 



nach 



Clan 



The mudnltcTiled juice el Ihe 
Clam. 

Atiasuebuilderforlheemacialed. 

Conlains readily assimilable or- 
ganic pbosphales. 

Streaglhcnine. Easily aad speed- 
ily absorbed. 

flannless lo the most delicate 
inlanl. 



Bouillon -where all other food 
preparations are rejected. 

Appelizing, Delicious, tieallhliil. 

Put up in glass only: pints and 

half pints. 



Vari, 



I of preparing and H 



fully gi 

E. S. BURNHAM PACKING COMPANY 

53 CANSEVOORT STREET NEW YORK CITY 



L 



HOSPITALS 



HOSPITALS desiring 
Dietitians can secure the 
services of graduates from 
leading Schools of House- 
hold Arts by applying to 
A. F. Pattee, 134 South 
First Avenue Mt. Vernon, 
New York. 

Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is 
made for this service. 



516 





1 




BREAD AS A FOOD 


i 

i 


Tha value of Bread, as of any food, depends on 




the value of the ingredients in it. 






Yeast is the richest and most important of all 






these ingredients. 






Fleischmann 's 




1 


Compressed 


1 


r 


Yeast 






is the perfect leaven. 






It does more than raise the dough. It softens 






the gluten and makes it more digestible. 






And it is the richest of all substances in the body- 






building property, vitamine. 






Insist on Bread made wholesome and nourishing 






with Fleischmann's Compressed Yeast. 






THE FLEISCHMANN CO. 




L 


M 



DIETITIANS 



DIETITIANS desiring 
Hospital positions are in- 
vited to register with A. 
F. Pattee, 134 South First 
Avenue, Mount Vernon, 
New York. 

No charge for registration 
is made and only nominal 
charge if position is secured. 



518 



DRYCO BRAND 
DRY MILK 

{Formerly caUmd Honor Brand) 

Is simply the finest quality of liquid milk from 
which all of the water and part of the hutter fat 
has been removed. (Contains \2% Fat in the 
dry state.) 

Dryco Brand Dry Milk is more digestible and 
nutritious than liquid or any other form of milk. 

Because of its high Caloric value, and because 
its available fraction for absorption is so high, 
Dryco Brand Dry Milk has supplied a great gap 
in the feeding of the acutely ill and convalescent. 

Because of its small bulk it is possible to sup- 
ply a great nutritional deficit without causing the 
patient to refuse extra feedings because of the 
amount. 

In febrile conditions, where the proteld de- 
struction is great and the consequent loss in 
weight is rapid, Dryco Brand Dry Milk has 
proved invaluable. 

The gains in weight, following the use of 
Dryco Brand Dry Milk in the convalescent period 
following typhoid, pneumonia, empyema, os- 
teomyelitis and other suppurative conditions, 
have been starthng. 

PhynciaDa and Nuriei can obtain (ample* and our 
booklet "How To U>e Dry MUk" 

THE DRY MILK COMPANY 

IS Pork Row :: ;: New York City 



II for the study BRd production 



1 








National Head- 


' 




quarters f o r 






DIETITIANS 




HOSPITALS desiring dietitians 




can secure the services of grad- 






uates from leading Schools of 






Household Arts by applying to 






us. Prompt attention given to 






request and no charge is made 






for this service. 






DIETITIANS desiring hospital 






positions are invited to register 






with us. No chargefor registration 






A. F. PATTEE 






134 South First Avenue, 






Mt. Vernon. New York 




1. 


S2U 





Dr. Brush's 




MARY SWARTZ ROSE'S 
NEW BOOK 

EVERYDAY FOODS IN WAR TIME 

By Mary Swartz Rose 

"This little book," so the Preface informs the 
reader, was started in response to a request for a war 
message about food.' It seems to the author that a 
simple explanation of the part which some of our com- 
mon foods play in our diet might be both helpful and 
reassuring. To change one's menu is often trying; 
to be uncertain whether the substituted foods will pre- 
serve one's health and strength makes adjustment 
doubly difficult. It is hoped that the chapters of this 
volume will make it easier to 'save wheat, meat, sugan 
and fats' and to make out an accepfable bill-of-fare 
without excessive cost." Among the chapters into 
which the text is divided are the following: The Milk 
Pitcher in the Home, Cereals We Ought to Eat, 
Meat We Ought to Save, The Potato and Its Substi- 
tutes, Are Fruits and Vegetables Luxuries?, Sugu and 
Spice and Everything Nice, Fat and Vitamines, Od 
Being Economical and Patriotic at the Same "nme. 

Eighty Cents 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

PUBUSHERS NEW YORK 



r 




1 




GOOD THINGS TO EAT 

THAT ARE 

HOME MADE 

PRESERVES, MARMALADES, PICKLES, 
RELISHES, JELLIES, MIKCE MEAT, 
PLUM PUDDING. 


1 


This Kitchen is under tlie personal supervis- 
ion of Miss Ciiivvis, who assures the public that 
only tlie purest and best goods are used in her 
establishment. 


SPECIALTIES 

GINGER PEARS, GRAPE CONSERVE, 
SPANISH PICKLE, CENTURY RELISH. 


Special prices to Hospitals, HoUls, Clubs, etc. 

Prlo* list furnlahad on appUoaclon. 

C. E. CHITTIS, - " MODNT TEBNON, MEW lOEK 


L 


521 



1 the Gold Medal at the Paris 1910 In 




Ernalionale I 



THE GLUTEN OF WHEAT 
SEPARATED BY A SCIENTIFIC PROCESS RETAIN- 
ING THE NATURAL PHOSPHATES AND SALTS 

For the special benefit and convenience of the busy prac- 
titioner, who has scant time for extended research, we have 
collected from experiences of the highest authoritalirt 
i follows: 

is no other single food-aubstance in the whole nalm of 
t and valuable in human diet as (bis chief nourisbcr, 
all ventable (anfla. GLulcn ia Ibt Dtine ■truclunl ni. 

table life. Distmelinlr, 

rer of the cereal ^^ain^ without wbii ' "'^ 
[1 deprived of luoliehl and moiilure.' 
—Prof. Parahall in "Food Value 
a flour salisfiei by itself prolonstd W 

—The French Academy of Scien 
3 the int»t Important of all nltrogenons subatance* 1 
f supporting lifTwhen ((iyen alonj "■ 

—Henry Lewes in "Physiology of Common til. 

Jemandi (or prolonged nt 
DOn-fenneiitiaK Iwd, Mi* 

'Eating and Dnnjiini. 
of Gluten tbere is no opparonuQ 



muscle-roakerDi t 
:tcd from 



—Albert Harris Hoy, M. D., i 



GLUTEN AS A BUILDER 

Gluten Fdoda as prepared by this compaojr, being a high com 

and all other cell-building material. TlwT «> 
" '"'e. "* 



of ceU life. I 



roths 



Xeally quidkeniBK the integrating proce 
ive energy in IHe revival of the syaiei 
may be ^ven in the form of the most delicate and twty mm 
made from nur Gluten flour; or in the form ol brud, nfc 
- "" ' also in th e form of breakfast food and nunr •** 




THE VALUE OF GLUTEN KNOWN FOR CENTURIES 



Tho ancient Greeks knew the value of gluten as 
learned to wash it out from wheat flour. This has 
of the old counlries for ages. Dr. Knos found the 
Canada separating it and makinB bread and biscuits f 
the family under s severe strain, and a-lwajs using it 
mother before child birth. 


been done in all 
Indian women of 

to strengthen the 


The gluten gives to flour that nutty Savor. Exi 
I. somewhat bitter but satisfying. 


racted by itself il 


To elinUnate Fatigue Poison, the dead wom.out t 
clean Gluten protein extracted iroia wheat saves that 


:ells from our own 
eating meat. The 


Hoyfs Gluten in a gruel added to milk for inlai! 
into flakes like mother's milk Instead of curdling into 
cross babies good and builds muscle. Children alway 


,t feeding forms it 
a ball. It makes 
s Hke it. 



LIST OF HOYT-S GLUTEN FOODS 

Hoyfa Gluten Flour. For making Gluten hread and for other pur- 
poses where flour ia jeneralty used, such as biscuits, muffins, wafers, 
crullers, cakes, soups, gruels, puddings, elc. la 1-lb. packages. S- 10- and 
2S.lb. sacks. 

Hoyt's Gluten Special Flour contains over 80% protein, and about 
S% Blirch. Used tor making muffins, and flat-cakes. Accepted by the 
A. M. A. In t-lb. packages and 5-lb. sacks. 



Hoye> Gluteo Breakfast 
the only gluten breakfast fo 
unable to eat olher foods be 


Food is gluten in a granular form and is 
od on the market It is relished by those 
cause of indigestion or a weak stomach. 


In Mb. packages. 5-lb. sark. 




Hoyfs Gluten Granules 
fast food. In Mb. package 


require leis time to cook tlian the Break- 
s and 5-lb. sacks. 


Hoyfs Gluten Self-Raisii 


ag makes most delicious griddle cakes, muf- 



HOYT'S SWEETINA— IN PURE CRYSTALS 
Turns to a Syrup by Adding Cold Water 

For SO Cent! ■ bottle of Hoyfs Sweetina will be mailed you on 
receipt o.' price equo! in awcelening power to Ei«ht Pounds of Sugar. 

TFie coirtents of a bottle of crystals makes a pint of syrup of which 

Our foods may he purchased from our agent, usually the leading 
grod. or direct from us. 

PURE GLUTEN FOOD COMPANY 

CHAMBER OF COFdMERCE Bldi, COLUMBUS, OHIO 



Cut Out the Blue Nondaus 




Automatic Electric Washer 



The Automatic is the El ectric Washer you have heard 
so much abouL It has brightened Monday for 50,000 
American women. 

Most atmple. Thetwo upright leverscontrol every- 
thing. Washes and wrings separately or at same time. 
Washes a tubful in seven minutes. — beautifully 
clean, without injury to the most delicate fabric 
Wringer swings easily to three positions, mm 
forwardor backward. Automatic Safety Release causes 
rolls to separate — positively preventing accident. 

Automatic Electric Washer Company 
328 Third Street i> NEWTON. IOWA 




NEXT in importance to the proper feeding 
of the inner man is the proper care of 
the outer man. 

Ivory Soap is recoenized, not orJy by the gen- 
eral public but by the professional world too, 
as the best means for keeping the skin thor- 
oughly clean without irritation. 

Its purity enables It to produce the aseptic Condition 
which is cleanliness in the strictest sense. And its 
mildness perraita of its continual use even on the sldn 
of a baby. 

Like a carefully chosen diet. Ivory Soap is free from 
troublesome ingredients which, in iioup, are uncom- 
bined alkali and unsaponified oil. And it includes all the 
desirable factors, which are quick lather, easy rinsing 
whiteness, sweet natural odor, mildness, purity and 



"The Biidft Booh" — 
"Umaual Vict of Ivotg Soap' 



IVORY SOAP 




'T pyBftti 



PURE 



[ 



"Not What We Have But What You Want 

Ell 1890 




4 



HOME BUREAU 

Poodi for roYalidi. Diibclici, Cblldi 

52 West 39th Street. New York City 

Tclcvhone 406-4D9 Grecler 

Nur*ei— For every kind oi a cue hoipilal and pcirale. 

Delicadei-Foi the SLck. Biothi, Puien, GiucU. Be*Ei^!^ }dfa 

Elggi. elc, on hand and to order, Manuel Fieret' Swhi pnAtM 
Surgical Dreuinga-FoT Opecatiant. Stnillzed Maternilr OadB« 

■falcd bmes, Laparoloniy KiU, Adenoid and ToDalilii Sol 
Medical Suppliea~of evay kind far llie tick nmm aod lire be^HtJ. 
Invalid Fumiture-Chain. Back Ruti. B«d Trayi, Stntcbei. O^ 

ating Tableft, Stoitized Sheets. Towda, Sut|feo(u' Go««i, <iU 

sold and rented. 
Invslida Moved --anywhere from dry lo eouDliy. and hooe ta \omt 

roam lo room, and up and down tiain. 
Rett Cure Apartmeats— attractively and daiuil; !■ iiiihi il [ar am 

valeieceQl and niS cure palieaii. 
Houiea and Rooma— fumigated and driaifHied by tke Ba« ifpHi^ 

metliodi nitfiout aiuiayance to Ingieltoldat or pMcak. I 

Purcha*e«— made of anything [or hospilali. [ilijiiiiM, HBMaiadil 

vaJjdL PhoIograpKs lubmmillea, ^■'^—i^Tt 
Mail Order*— for licktoom and hiii|iilil mnilji mmniitj ibJ «| 



Open D*r. Mgkt, Snndaj and HiiM^f J 



[ODINE MEDICATION 

EXTERNALLY APPLIEI 

ODOFUMER p 



EXTERNALLY APPLIED BY THE 




Use 90 dayB; if 
unsatisfactory 

we rerund 
parcliaae price 

l^oladlizes lodin CrystaU by Heat. Sublimed lodin 
Forced oa or Into diseased tissue. 

"Itching of the nose or inner canthus of one or both eyes, 
leezbg, runninff at iho nose of a watery fluid, weeping of 
he eyes and severe frontal headache, patients of various ages 
er^^'ly troubled for many years with daily attacks of this 
haracter lasting for several hours. Fumes of Iodine often 
clieve this affection at once, lessening the headache and dis- 
harge from the nostrils. Its effect is most marked in regard 
) itching" Hare, continues, page 316: In case of acute 
pryza, much relief is obtained from sniffing the fumes of 
>din.'* 

A potent antiseptic to external wounds, ulcers and inf ec- 
m dermatoses. READILY ABSORBED for treatment 
systemic syphilis, mucous patches. Lymphadenitis, Goitre, 
Itronic rheumatism. Bone disease, throat and ear and all 
inditions requiring efficient lodin medication. 
Read our Guarantee then send us your order. 

THE lODOFUME COMPANY 

N. Wabash Avenue -:- Chicago, Ul. 



II 



L 



€i 



1000 Surgical 
Suggestions'* 



BY 
WALTER Af. BRICXNER. Af .D.. F.A.CS. 



AMOoUt» SvrgMm. M t. Siafti Hospital. N. Y. 
Edit^r*ia-Chi«ff Aaierieaa Jnawmml of Surgery. 



FOURTH AMERICAN EDITION 



Ten thousand physicians and nurses have purchasec 
this book which contains 1000 practical surgical "thera- 
peutic hints and dia^osdc wrinkles." It presents ir 
an explicit and pithy form many facts liable to escape 
the practitioner and nurse in connection with surreal 
work. 

It offers nuggets of information that might in many 
cases turn the scales from failure to success. 

Artistically presented from a mechanical standpoint 
Printed with Cheltenham type upon India tint antique 
paper, with red marginal headings. 



Friee-Cloth Bo«m4. Sl.M. Paper Bom4. S .50~PMt9«i4 

PUBLISHED BY 

THE SURGERY PUBLISHIXG CO. 

15 KAST :oTH STREET NEW YORK 

530 



^ 



"I^ss) that's 



Eliminate those two words! 

NOT only is it unneces- 
sary to guess about 
cooking temperatures, but it 
ii wronif to attempt to get 
up any dish forthe sick with- 
out ftnow/n^ exactly howit is 
cooked. 

Vou can fcnow with the 




Binty V 



nyoQ t 



ethe 



Taylor 
HoM£ Set 

which consists of Oven Thermometer, $1.75; 
Candy Thermometer, $1.5 0; and Sugar Meter, 
$1.00; all packed in neat case with books of 
recipes, complete, $4.35. 

{Pr.ces ,o Canada and Ftir IVesI higher) 

And put your faith in 

TyccsFever Thermometers 



special catalog of these fan 



Taylor Instrument Companies 
Rochester, N.V 

Tbvt^'a a Tycai or IKlJir Thtnnamiiler 



The Vitalized Water Filter 

ss is shown in the illustration below is especially duigned 
for the use of physicians and nurses who aie exposed to 
infections of various sorts. The filter may be attached to 
any faucet where there is running water and regardless of 
the quality of the water that passes into the filter that which 
is drawn therefrom is a bland colloidal solution. The 
colloidal solutions are the most powerful anti-infectious agents 
known. The water also h&s a pronounced and beneficial effect 
upon assimilation and elimination. This has been attested 
by physicians useing the filter alter prolonged observations. 



'n^e eAeef at Aese 




Brilllh Mailcal/ta: 



For nurses or those wb. „ ._. 

attached anywhere or for a permanent resid< 
plumbed. Price complete as above 



traveling the filter may be 



residence it may be 
$15.00 f. o. b. 



VITALIZED WATER FILTE,R CO. 

901 MaoDlltli Building 

45 West 34tb Street. New YorR Cltr 

S12 



^6^^^^^ 




breathed Dy ihe palient. Btealhine be 
allayed and the patient gains needfiil res 

The diseases m nhich Cresolene has been especially uti 
Whooping Cough, Spasmodic Croup, Influeiiia, Bronchitis, 
Awhma, Broncho -pneumonia, the bronchial complications of Scar- 
let-Fever and Measles and aa an aid in the treatment of Diphtheria. 

A i( solution of Cresolene In nater kills the germs of Dlphlheria, 
Trehoid Fever and pus at once. Cresolene is less toxic than catbolic 

For ule by Dmggitt*. Literature on requeil. 

THE VAPO-CRESOLENE CO. 

64 Cortlandl Street, New York City. 



THE THIBD EDITION BEVISED AND ENIAROED 



INSTITUTION RECIPES 

FOR USE IN 

SCHOOLS, COLLEGES. HOSPITALS, 

AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS 

By E.MMA SME,DLEY 

Dirtclor of School Lonchronm. Philadelphia. Pa., formerly tntln. 
in Domtmlh Scitnct, Drtxel InitiluU. Philadelphia: •"•J 
hmtractor in DieUtism, Tha Jahnm Hophinm Hoipilal 
Trainlnt School for Nartt: Bullimore, Md. 

"INSTITUTION RECIPES" is unlike the usual cookery book 

which is designed for use in the home, as ihe recipes hae 

given aie in quantilies to serve Rfty, or one hundied and fifty porliou 

This third edition of Institution Recipes has been cardtJ^ 
renaed. Many new recipes have been added for soups, meaH 
salads, sandwiches and desserts, which are appropriate foe iit 
School Luncheon, Cafeteria, Mountain Camp, College aod Ho^Mtil 

The use of flour substitutes, to conform with the Food 
Administration regulations, is also treated. 

A new feature is the addition of the Caloric Value ej i 
single serving of each recipe. This will simplify the UIx« it 
planning the balanced menu. 

Institution Recipes has proved indispensable to the di_ 
in hospitals, colleges, school lunch rooms: in the United StaU- 
Government Cantonments and Base Hospitals; and in Ym^ 
Men's and Young Women's Christian Assodation Cafeta' ' 
all parts of the United States and Canada. 

The Teacher of Home Econon-.ics cannot afford to be wilt 
out this standard work, as a general reference book, and as &- 
text-book for the course in Institutional Management. 

Price, $3.00 Post Paid 



FOR SALE BY 

F. PATTEE, Mount Vernon, N. Y. 




1 


1 
i 


EVERY NURSE 
NEEDS 

A dependable Dusting and 
Dressing Powder 

KORA-KONIA contains proper ingredients, per- 
fectly proportioned. It is aLsorbent, protective, 
meclianically lubricating, sootbing, bealing and 
agreeable to use in tbe dressing of cuts, bums, 
scalds, cbafes, sore nipples, umbilical bemia, 
bed sores, suture irritation, etc. 
KORA-KONIA is a special product, especially 
made for professional use, steadily growing in 
popularity and use. A sample of KORA-KONLV 
to any nurse on re<jneBt. 


^ 


An agreeable and efficient 
"Baby Powder" 

MENNEN'S BORATED TALCUM is particu- 
larly adapted to the baby's delicate skin. It is 
protective and sootbtng; it relieves irritation 

"Wlietber for use after tbe batb ; to relieve and 
prevent diaper rash; prickly beat; dermatitis; 
smarting, burning, or itching, the INurse will pre- 
fer MENNEN'S BORATED TALCUM because it 
enables ber to keep her little patient comfortable 

THE MENNEN COMPANY 

NEWARK. NEW JEBSBV 


L 


535 


« 



PATTEE'S 



Pattee's Practical Dietetics with reference 
to Diet in Disease* 

Pattee's State Board Requirements and 
Examination Questions in Dietetics. 

Pattee's Hand Bag Diet Book. 

Pattee's Dietitians' Registry. 

(All Text Books for Nurses SuppRed) 



A. F. PATTEE, 

Publisher and Book Seller, 
137 South 1st Avenue, 

MOUNT VERNON, N. Y. 

Tele, 272 R, 



THE STORM BINDER AND 
ABDOMINAL SUPPORTER 



(PATENTED) 




Specul Kidney Belt Inguinal Hernia Modificadoa 

Adapted to Use of Men, Women, 
Children and Babies 

For Hernia, Relaxed Sacroiliac Arliculalions, 
FloatiDg KidDey. High and Low OperatioDs. 
Ptosis, Obesity. Pregnancy. Pertussis, etc. 

"Sendjor illuitralcJ fiUir ivith lestimomah ef pliyuciant. Mail 
DrJirs filled at Phila'dtlphiii only— within Itutnty-four hoars. " 

KATHE.RINE L. STORM, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA 



L 



<A 



Gingham for Nurses' Uniforms 



OrJfrs filli-d piompily for Gmi;;. 
ham or Chambray for Nurses' Uiii- 
fomis, by piece only (38 to 58 yards 
in piece) , subject to price on delivery. 

Send sample and state number of 
yards required, and we will Ecnd ax 
near as possible th« quantity require J. 

AH goods sent C. O.D. ciipreas 
collect. No charge accounts opened 
on orders for ging'ham. 




A. F. PATTEE 
134 South Fir« Avenue Mount Vemont N. T. 



Kahler 
Shoes 

Embody 




Styk 



r For All Occaaiona 



average ready-made shoes, ii 



Comfort 

Quality- 
Fat lhi» reason they 
are universally admired by 
pToFessional people. 

Our NURSES" 
- Shoes aie constructed en- 
tirely different from the 
accordance with anatomic 



ind hygienic principles. In designing them vf e have given 
ipecial consideration to those who walk or sland 

:onstanlly. 

Dr. P. KAHLER & SONS 

15-17 West 44th Street, near 5th Avenue 

N,?w York Ci(y, New York 



Pattee's 
Hand=Bag Diet Book 

Consisting ol 

Measures and Weights, Recipes 
and ilospital Dietaries 

HEPRINTED PKOM 

Pattee's "Practical Dietetics with 
Reference to Diet in Health and Disease" 



IN response to requests from a large number 
of nurses these extraets from the Pattee's 
"Practical Dietetics with Reference to Diet 
in Disease" have been collated into a Email book, 
suitable for the nurse's hand-bag. 

It is bound in heavy paper and is sold only 
to nurses, purchasers of the complete edition, 
Those who do not purchase both the complete 
book and the Hand-Bjig Diet fiuok at the same 
time can obtain the latter only when the coupon 
on the opposite page is forwarded to the publisher 
or b(X)kseUer from whom book was purchased 
and is accompanied by the nurse's profesiiiional 
cni-d or hospital order and the price of the 
book. Orders will not be filled unless these 
instructions are followed. 

Price of Pattee's "Practical Dietetics'" ($2.85 
postpaid) with one copy Pattee's Hand- Bag Diet 
Book, $2,85 postpaid. 

This booklet is not published for general circula- 
tion, simply for the convenience of the nurse for 
her himd-liig equipment. 

NOTF. FOLH.OWING PAGE 



COUPON 

The possession of this coupon entitles any 
nurse to the right to purchase one copy of Pattee*8 

Hand-Bag Diet Book. 

Send this coupon with your professional card 
or hospital order and 60 cents to the publisher or to 
the bookdealer from whom the book was purchased^ 
and a copy will be forwarded postpaid. 

A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 
Mount Vernon New York 

Name 

Address 



•VOTE PRBCEDING PAGE 

541 



INDEX TO SUPPLIES 

FOR The 

HOSPITAL— HOME— PHYSICIAN— NURSE 

puritr al ihc preparation* thai are uied in the various compounda for tlw 
FOODS AND UTENSILS: 

Bumham'* Clam BouUloo '." Hi 

C«lf W«,t ^=lli„ 507 

Dr° bVu?! Ku" yii '\''[\]]\\]]m\l':[\''.'.'.'.[[]]'.[iy". |!J 

Dryco Brand Dry Milk S» 

Flei«hmann'a Veoit S17 

Hemaboloida sil 

Uoraford-a Acid Phosphate 504 

Horliclt'i Malted Milt i« 

HcirC'a Clulen Fooda S24 525 

I«"0 ,,, "jOS 

Laclopeptme . , S13 

Liquid PrplonauU jlj 

Minute TapioGK SW 



SSI.' 



DiLiiiiaus Dci^iriiig HaepitaT Poiiiioai su 

Dietitiani' Regiitry SM 

E»eryday Foodi in War Time (Roae) 523 

Feedins Ihe Familj (Rok) sjo 

Fellow^ Syrup of the Hypophosphiles 400 

Gingham for ¥lur»«' UnifSrSs. ::::::;: SJ8 

Hand-Bag Diei Book JIO 

Home Bureau 52> 

HoipiUIi Ueiirlng Dittitians Sit 

lodofumer 529 

InititutioD Becipes 514 

Ivory Soap 527 

Kahfer Shoea 539 

Laboralpry UaautI of Dietelici (Rose) JIO 

Mennen'i Knra-Konia '.'.'.'.'.'.'.','.'. S3S 

NuTaei- Journal! SM 

Nuri»' JoumaLa CombiDation Offer SOt 

Pailee'ii Dietitiant' Regiatry 518.520 

Patlee'i Hand-liaE Diet Book 540 

Palln'a Praclitar Dietetics . ; 540 

t'atiee'* Slate Board Rcciuiremcnla and Eiaminalion Quesiiooa in 

Diilellci 514 

Soil Ihb'l—'CBi lor Oil. Sodium Bicarbonate, Sodium Phosphale. 

Zinc Stearale, Minrral Oil 419 

Stale Board Eitminalinn Queitiona in Dietetics 514 

'".ItDmi" Bindtr and Abdominal Supporter Sil 

inon Sur^icil RTiEKt5'io'is (Brickner) S» 



above finns uieftil literature and aamples will b* 
St. In writing, please mtntion Pattee'i Praciicil 



va 



GET THE GENUINE 

THIS IS THE ORIGINAL PACKAGE 
OF KNOWN OUALITY 



The Clioice of 
DIETITIANS, 
PHYSICIANS, 
& HOSPITALS 




The Name 
•'IIORLICK'S" 
is your gviarantee 



AN EXTENSIVELY USEFUL 
DIETETIC PRODUCT 

The quality and reliability of "Horlick's" are such 
that the medical profession has endorsed its use for 
over one-third century as the most satisfactory infant- 
food next to mother's milk, and as a most efficient 
builder for nursing mothers, invalids, convalescents 
and the aged. 

Heine partially predigested, unimpaired in vitaminc 
content and properly proportioned, it is successfully 
used in the dietetic treatment of was:ing diseases, 
fevers and gastro- intestinal diseases. 
Is easy to prepare and may be served in many 
delicious ways. 

Samples ami liliraSurt prepaid upon regaeil 

HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO. 



i^ 



LANE MEDICAL LIBRARY 



To avoid fine, this book should be returned on 
or before the date last stamped below. 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



kl 



vV^l-a^^D 3.,-W^- v?a^v,~.^tir 





V^yVeVi.Ct. 






IS' 



:::' 






i» 



i 



^ !V^ 




I HI I 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 
WITH REFERENCE TO 
DIET IN DISEASE j» j» 



[ 


PRACTICAL 




r 


DIETETICS 




1 


WITH REFERENCE TO 




■ 


DIET IN DISEASE 




■ 


BY 




1 


ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 






Ule [niiruclor in Dlclet^cs, BEllefue Trtlnlpi Schoal lor Nuncti, 
BeLlevue Hosplul. Nev York Cily. 

HQSpiul Tnlnint School! for Nur.». New York Cliy; 

Uhcside. St. Mir/'i. Trinity, ind Vlicomlii TniDlnt 

School, tor Nana. Mllnokee, Wl..; St. Jo.tph'. 

Hoipiul. ChiO(o, III.; Si. Vincem di Paul 

Hoiplnl, BrockvllJe. Onnrlo, Cioadi. 






EIGHTH EDITION 

Revised and Ei>ler(<d 

Price SI. 50 






^^ 




1 


A. F. PATTEE, PUBLISHER 

Mount Vernon, New York 

1914 








L. . 



Set up, electrotyped, printed, and copyrighted, June, 1903 

Reprinted July, 1904, February, 1905, October, 1906, and November, 190S 

Revised, reset, and recopyrighted December, 1910 

Reprinted August, 191a, October, 1913 



Copyright, 1903, 1904, 190s, 1910, by 
ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 



Entered at Stationers' Hall 
All rights reserved 



*• ■ < 






- 


• • ■ 


• * 


• 


9 ■ , 






A 




* • » 


•■ 








^ 


« « 


^ % • 


• 1 


* fe « 


> k 


* 


• 
• 


• » • 


4 • 


• . ' 

• • • • • 



tTo tbe T^raine^ Vlurae: 
Wb09e ^ail1? life is a 
I)te00ind to bumanitie 



ill 



i 

I! 
i 



PREFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION 



The very gratifying demand for this work has necessitated 
the preparation of a sixth edition. Advantage has been 
taken of this opportunity to revise the book and incorporate, 

Ias far as space allows, the latest results of research in die- 
tetics. To meet the growing tendency of physicians to pre- 
scribe the exact fuel value of a diet, the total energy value 
of each recipe has been calculated wherever data as to com- 
position of materials used are available, or the quantities 
of materials used are fairly constant. A table has also been 
introduced in which the food value of the materials used in 
the recipes is given. This will be useful in computing other ' 
food combinations, and in calculating the amount of protein, ' 

I fat or carbohydrates in any dietary, whenever required, with- 
out the tedious mathematical processes usually involved in 
Buch operations. 
It is hoped that a revised classification of food principles, 
greater emphasis on the value of mineral matter in the diet, 
and fuller discussion of the fundamental principles of nutri- 
tion, will add much to the usefulness of the book. 

In the introduction are presented outlines showing the re- 
quirements in dietetics of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Nurses, and the contents of the book have been 
rearranged to correspond directly with these requirements. 
This will materially aid the dietitian in arranging the course 
of study for the nurse so as to prepare her adequately for her 
State Examinations. 

Many years of experience as an instructor in dietetics in 
hospitals seem to the author to demonstrate that the "recipe 
book," so-called, should not be separate from the volume 
L<m "theory." Both tlieoretical and practical work should be 




V'.->i;^V. 




treated together, otherwiBe, while the eabjects are naturally 

closely allied, the young etudent becomea confused and is not 
apt to apply the theory to the practice. In this book she 
cannot read a recipe without having her attention called to 
its function in nutrition, furthermore, for convenience 
sake, the two should be combined in one book of moderate 
size. One hundred and fifty pages have been added to this 
edition with but little increase in bulk. 

I take pleasure in acknowledging the valuable assistance 
rendered by Dr. Mary D. Swartz Eose, Assistant Professor 
of Household Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University, 
New York, in the preparation of this edition; also again to 
express my thanks for valuable material used in the book to 
Mrs. Ellen H, Eichards, Dr. W. Gilman Thompson, Dr. Max 
Einhorn, Dr. Henry Koplik, Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Dr. Louia 
Starr, Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Dr. 
Elliott P. Joslin, Dr. Harry W. Goodall and Dr. Maynard 
Ladd. 

Alida Frances Pattee. 

New York, December, 1910, 

EiTBAcT FaoM Phefacb to Fifth EDmoir 
I have been particularly pleased to see " Practical Dietet- 
ics " accepted as a text-book by so many educational and other 
authorities. Thus it is to he found in all hospitals of the 
United States Army ; it has been recommended for use bj' all 
the various State Boards of Examiners of Nurses that have 
tims far been appointed ; it has been adopted by the military 
authorities in Canada for the Permanent Schools of Instruc- 
tion for the Militia, and it has also been added to the Author- 
ized Text Book list of the New York City and Boston Public 
Schools. 

New York, November, 1908. 




PEBPACB TO THE SECOND EDITION 

The very cordial reception of the first edition of Practical 
Dietetics has encouraged a second presentation. 

In the preparation of the second issue the original matter 
has been thoroughly revised, and important additions made. 

For valuable material I am indebted to the following 
physicians, hospitals and publishers, and gratefully acknowl- 
edge their assistance and kind permission accorded by them 
to quote their several diets. 

Dr. W. Oilman Thompson, Professor of Medicine in the 
Cornell University Medical College in New York City and 
Tisiting physician to the Presbyterian and Bellevue Hos- 
pitals : 

Dr. Max Einhom, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the 
New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, vis- 
iting physician to the German Dispensary: 

Dr. Henry Koplik, attending physician Mount Sinai Hos- 
pital, ex-president of the American Psediatric Society: 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Professor of Diseases of Children 
in the College of Physicians and Surgeons (Columbia Uni- 
versity), attending physician at the Babies^ Hospital and 
Foundling Hospital, New York : 

Dr. Louis Starr, Consulting Pasdiatrist to the Maternity 
Hospital, Philadelphia; late Clinical Professor of Diseases 
of Children in the Hospital of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania: 

Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Professor of Clinical Medicine 
in Harvard University, visiting physician Massachusetts Gen- 
eral Hospital: 

Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Instructor in Theory and Prac- 
tice* at Harvard Medical School, visiting physician Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital: 

ix 



X PREFACE 

Dr. Nathan Smith Davis, late Dean Northwestern Uni- 
versity Medical School, Chicago: 

Bellevue Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Presby- 
terian Hospital, the Society of Lying-in Hospital (New- 
York), Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston: 

D. Appleton & Co., Blakiston & Co., William Wood & 
Co., and the publisher of the Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette : 

And sincere thanks are due Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards (In- 
structor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology) for aid and information, also for permission to 
quote from the Eumford Kitchen Leaflets. 

A. F. Patteb. 

New York, July, 1904. 



PEEPACE TO THE PIEST EDITION 

As instructor of dietetics at various hospitals I have con- 
stantly felt the need of a simple manual and text-book for 
the use of the nurse in the classroom. 

None could be found which fulfilled the requirements as 
to simplicity, brevity, and exactness, with reference to dietetic 
treatment in disease. 

This same need has been expressed by mothers and nurses 
outside of the hospital. 

In the following pages I have endeavored to meet this 
need by giving the result of knowledge gained during the 
past eight years of practical classwork experience in hospitals 
of different cities. 

The preparation of food is a science as well as an art, the 
ehemis^ of which is as precise as the chemistry of the 
laboratory. When we are willing to be as exact and care- 
ful in this work as we are in chemical experiments, our suc- 
cess will become a certainty. No other technical art can, with 
80 little practical knowledge, go as far in simplifying that 
which is otherwise complicated and laborious, or do more 
toward accomplishing that which is a chief result of all 
science — adding to the comfort and happiness of the human 
race. 

A, P. Pattee. 

New York, July, 1903, 



zi 



INTRODUCTION 

In response to the many requests of Superintendents of 
Training Schools and Dietitians for an outline of the va- 
rious State Board Requirements in Dietetics, I herewith 
quote with permission the following outlines of courses of 
study recommended by the American Hospital Association, 
New York, Minnesota, Illinois and Colorado State Boards 
of Examiners of Nurses. Answers to all questions are to 
be found in this book. Requirements of other States when 
issued will be added in each new edition of "Practical 
Dietetics.^^ 

These outlines will prove of assistance to the Dietitian in 
arranging her course of study for the nurse, and will also 
prove suggestive to the nurse in preparing for her State 
Examinations. 

Through the kindness of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Nurses I am also able to quote the examination 
questions of various States. 

Conrse of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the American 

Hospital Association 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics: Cla43sification of foods, care of foods, cooking of foods, 
serving of foods. 

First Year 

Tray setting and food serving; feeding the helpless and delirious 
patients; management of liquid diet. 

Second and Third Year 

Milk modification for infants according to different formulae; also 
for fever patients and invalids. '' It is recommended that continued 
and special attention be given throughout the second year, to 
dietetics^ hygiene and the management of special diseases." 

• • • 

Xlll 



xiv INTRODUCTION 

Second Yeab Theobetical Work 
Foods and food value; eight to fourteen hours. 

Thibd Yeab Pbactical Wobk 

Diet kitchen practice, including the modification of milk, one to 
two months. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Colorado State 

Board 

Dietetics 
FOOD — DEFINITION — CLASSIFICATION 

1. Organic — 

a. Proteids. 

b. Fats. 

c. Carbohydrates. 

2. Inorganic — 

a. Water. 

b. Salts. 

3. The uses of foods in disease. 

4. Practical work should be given in at least twelve (12) lessons 

and should include plain and fancy cooking for in- 
valids. 

5. Pupils should be familiar with the text of either Pattee, Farmer 

or equivalent. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Illinois State 

Board 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics 

Secoih) FOub Weeks 

Simple nourishments. Hospital diet lists. Times of feeding. 
Methods of feeding. Preparation of the following, to be served to 
patients : 

Milk, cold and hot. Malted milk, cold and hot. Lemonade. Beer. 
Gruel. Egg-nog. Orangeade. Root Beer. Soda-pop. Buttermilk. 
Fruit Juices. Broth. 

FiBST Yeab 
Diet Cooking: 12 practical demonstrations, 2 hours each. 



INTRODUCTION xv 

Conne of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Michigan State 

Board of Examiners of Nurses 

LECTURE COUnSE: JUNIOR YEAR 

Dietetics 
FOUR LECTURES 

1. Foodstuffs and their classification. 

2. Principles of cooking. 

3. Beverages: Milk, etc. 

4. Serving of food, combination of food and 12 lessons in practical 

demonstration in diet kitchen. Written examination to be 
held at the end of lectures. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Minnesota State 

Board 

SECOND YEAR 

Dietetics 
Theoretical Work 

(Anatomy and Physiology of digestion. Review subject as al- 
ready given in Anatomy, i. e. — mechanical and chemical processes, 
absorption, assimilation, metabolism, elimination.) 

Food — definition of, source, function, composition, classification 
and food adjuncts. 

Water — minerals, fats and oils, carbohydrates and proteids, each 
studied as to their composition, food value, digestion and compara- 
tive values. 

General principles to be observed in cooking of starch, meat, eggs, 
poultry, game, fish, cereals and vegetables. 

Practical Work 

Dietetics — 24 two-hour lessons — individual class work under 
dietitian. (15 minutes to theory and remainder of period to prac- 
tical work.) 

Practical work to include the proper methods of preparing and 
serving: Coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate, beef juice, beef broth, chicken 
broth, oyster broth, egg-nog, albumin, milk. Cream soups (tomato, 
corn, celery, pea). Toast, crodtons, pulled bread. Bread — graham, 
wheat, whole wheat, gluten, nut. Light desserts — cornstarch, gela- 
tin, ices, ice cream, baked apples. Eggs — soft-boiled, poached, 
creamed, custard, omelet. Beefsteak, lamb chops, roast beef, roast 
lamb, bacon, sweetbreads, scraped beef. Chicken and game. Baked 
and broiled whitefish, halibut, bass, brook trout, oysters. Rice, oat- 
meal, cream of wheat, rolled oats. Potatoes — baked, boiled, 



xvi INTRODUCTION 

creamed, escalloped and stuffed. Fruits — stowed and fresh. Sal- 
ads — French salad dressing, cooked salad .ressing, mayoimaise. 
Vegetables. 



Conne of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Missouri State 

Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 

FIRST YEAR 

Probationary Course. Two to Four Months 
Tray setting and food serving; feeding of helpless patients; man- 
agement of liquid diet. 

FIRST YEAR 

Probationary Course. Two to Four Months 
Dietetics. (Theoretical and practical work.) Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics. Part 1. 

SECOND YEAR 

First Half. Intermediate Term (4% months) 
Dietetics. (Theoretical and practical work.) Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics. Part 2. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the New York State 

Board 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics, 14 hours 

Theory 

Water: source, function, varieties of drinking water, source of 
disease. 

Beverages: tea, coffee, cocoA, chocolate; history and growth of 
plants; composition, nutritive value; physiological effects. 

Constituents of milk: care and preservation; bacteria in milk; ef- 
fects of heat on milk; adulteration — digestibility; value of skimmed 
milk; whey, buttermilk, cheese. 

Infant feeding; comparison of human and cow's milk; modifica- 
tion of milk; certified milk; capacity of infant's stomach; symp- 
toms considered in regulating the feeding of infants. 

Practical 

Care of dining-room, gas range, cooking utensils, ice box and con- 
tents. 

Preparation of trays; how to make them attractive; how to serve; 
quantity, quality and temperature of food; how to feed helpless 
patients. 



INTRODUCTION 



xm. 



, fruit jui 



; cottage 



Beveragea: watpi:, ten, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, v 
craltful mill^ prept d foods. 

Milk: paBt«urizing, steriliziog, modiflcation, kumyss, buttermilk, 
(artifleial) and whey. 

Eggs in various forma as liquid diet; gruels, 

tMilk and eggs aa food; custards; junket; white a 
Digeat 



s already 



] 

] 

tiv. 

■ ' 

r 



INTERMEDIATE TERM, FIRST HALF 
Dietetics, 10 two-hour lesaous (under dietitian) 
Theoretical 
Digeation and absorption: review subject of digestion ai 
^Ten in anatomy, i. e., mechanical and chemical processei- 
tion, asaimilatiou, metabolism, elimination of waste. 

Food: source, function, food adjuncts, definition of food, compo- 
sition, claeaification. 

Mineral matter; source and function. 

Carbohydrates: why ao called, source, function, nutritive value. 
General principle in cooking cereals, vegetables, fruits, nuts and. 
sugars. 

~ ;gs: composition; test for freshness; digestibility; nutritive val- 

effect of temperature; advantages and disadvantages in use. 
Ideat: Composition; nutritive value; effect of hot and cold water; 
imparative value of tea and broth; raw compared with cooked; 
organs used as food; gelatin. 
Poultry: game. 

Pish; classes; composition; signs of freshness; care of fish; nutri- 
tive value; digestibility. 
Mollusks ; crustaceans. 

Fata and oils: source, animal and vegetable; function; digestibil- 
comparative value as fuel food. 
Practical 

:e; sandwiches. 



Toast; cereals; cornstarch; 

Starchy vegetables, legumes. 

Green vegetables, salads, dressings (cream and oily^ 

Fruit, fresh and cooked; fruit puddings. 

Soups, stock and creamy; broths. 

Broiled meats, giving cuts. 

Chicken and game. 

Fish, shell and scaly. 

Frozen desserts; sponge cake; wafers. 

If tlie pupils are not assigned to a term of eervicc' >b the diet 
kitchen, practice in preparing and spi'ving full meals Bbonld be given 
' 1 connection with tbis aeties of lessons. 




xviii INTRODUCTION 

SENIOR TERM 

Dietetics 

Theory, at least 6 hours 
Diift in cbildlKKxl, 
\>ini in dimsine. 
Vood vsilueH, 

iUfmimriwm of animal, vegetable and mixed diets. 
C.'al<;nkitin^ dietarieH. 
Planning mi;nuf». 

Practical 

During the term the nurse in charge of wards should make prac- 
tical application of the theory of dietetics and study food ordered 
for patientN under her care, in connection with the cases for which 
it in ordered. 

Course of Stndy in Dietetics Arranged by the Oregon State 

Board of Examiners of Nurses 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics 
8e<x)nd Foub Weeks 

Himple nouriHhments. Hospital diet lists. Times of feeding. 
MethmlM of feeding. I*reparation of the following, to be served to 
patientM : 

Milk, (fold and hot. Malted milk, cold and hot. Lemonade. Beer. 
Oruel. Kgg-nog. Orangeade. Root Beer. Soda-pop. Buttermilk. 
Fruit JuiccH. Hroth. 

First Year 

Diet Cooking: 12 practical demonstrations, 2 hours each. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Pennsylvania 
State Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 

PRELIMINARY COURSE 

Recoxd Week 
Serving of trays and feeding helpless patients. Three hours daily. 

TWO YFJVRS CX)URSE 
FlIlHT Yeab 

Lecture I. Foodstuffs and their classification. 

Lecture *II. Principles of cooking. 

Lecture III. Beverages, Milk. 

Lecture IV. Serving of food. Combination of food. 



INTRODUCTION xix 

Lecture V. Relation of diet and nutrition. 

Lessons; Twelve. 
Practical demonstration in diet kitchen on care of 

gas range, electric range, cooking utensils and 

ice box. 
Preparations of trays. 
Feeding of helpless patients. 
Preparation of food. 

Second Yeab 
Lecture I. Carbohydrates; their sources, food values and prepara- 
tion. 
Lecture II. Meats; their food values and methods of preparation. 
Lecture III. Eggs; their value, tests for freshness, and preparation. 
Lecture IV. Fish, clams, oysters; their food value, and prepara- 
tion. 
Lecture V. Special diets in different diseases. 

Lessons ; Twelve. 

Practical demonstrations in diet kitchen, preparing 
and serving the different varieties of food. 

THREE YEARS COURSE 
The same as first and second year's Courue with the addition of 
the following matter: — 

Computing cost of foods. 

Computing food values. 

Planning menus for people in health and disease. 

Feeding of children, sick and well. 

Dietary for special diseases. 

Practical work in diet kitchen with instructor. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Vermont State 

Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 

Classification of foods, care of foods, cooking of foods, serving of 
foods. 

Tray-setting and food serving: feeding of helpless and delirious 
patients; management of liquid diet. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Wisconsin State 

Board of Examiners of Nurses 

Dietetics 
FIRST YEAR 
Probationary Course. Three Months. 
Feeding helpless patients. Serving liquid diets under direction. 
Charting diets. 



XX INTRODUCTION . 

SECOND TERM JANUARY 3 TO MAY 31 

Dietetics. — Twelve classes. Theory, one-half hour. Demonstra- 
tion, one and one-half hours. Review physiology of digestion; 
mechanical and chemical processes; absorption; assimilation, and 
elimination. 

Foods. — Classification, composition, and function. 

Food values. 

Principles to be observed in the preparation of foods. 

Practical Dietetics. — Preparation and serving of the following: 
Coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, broths, hot milk, oyster stew, egg-nog, 
eggs (poached, scrambled, jellied, baked), omelets, custards, toasts, 
cream sauce, light-desserts (including ice cream), beefsteak, roasts, 
bacon, sweet breads, fish, chicken, breakfast foods, vegetables, fruits, 
and simple salads. 

Serving of trays. 



state Examination Qnestions in Sietetica 

COLORADO 
1009 

1. Mention one good nutritive enema. 

2. What is included under the head of liquid dietl 
S, How do jou make albumiii water 7 

4. niiat ia the appearance of healthy beef; chicken; fish? 

5. How would you feed a typhoid patient the first weric he gets 
solid food? 

6. Deaeribe all the correct methods you know of preparing food 
for the Bick. 

7. What is important in cooking starchy fuodal 

6. What foods contain the most albumin! 

B. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 
10. Have you had any special tj'alning in dietetics! Of what did 
It consistt Name one book on dietetics. Do yau own a book on 
dietetics t 

1911 

1. (a). Define dietetics. (6) What are . nitrogenous foods and 
what is their chief function! 

2. (a) Wliat do you understand by predigested foods? (6) By 
modified milkT 

3. Has skimmed milk any great value as a food? Give reason. 

4. (a) By what signs do you know a fresh egg without break- 
ing! (b) Which are more easily digested, raw or soft-cooked eggs! 
(o) Give a proper method of preparing a aoft-boited egg. 

5. (a) Which has the higher nutritive value, flah or meat! (fi) 
Which is more easily digested? 

e. (o) By what signs do you know good beefl (6) By what 
signs do you know good fish? 

7. Give a good method of preparing beef jnice and state what 
cuta of beef are best for thia purpoiief 

6. (o) What is included under the head of light diet? (b) Why 
is butter valuable as a food? 

9. Bow do you increase the digestibility of starchy foods? Give 

10. (a) What instruction have you had in dietetics? (6) Give 
uuDe of one book on dietetics with which you are familiar. 



xxU INTRODUCTION 

1912 

1. Define dietetics. 

2. What processes are necessary to make food of use to the body 7 

3. Name two vegetables containing a large proportion of carbo- 
hydrates. 

4. What food principles predominate in nuts? 

5. Why is a salt free diet often ordered where there is oedema? 

6. How are broths made? Mention two ways of removing fats 
from soups. 

7. How sterilize water? How oxygenate the same after it is 
sterilized ? 

8. What do you understand by predigested food? By modified 
milk? 

9. Give a good method for preparing beef juice and state what 
cuts of beef are best for this purpose. 

10. What should be the diet of a tubercular patient in the incipi- 
ent stage. 

CONNECTICUT 

Dietetics and Hygiene 

June, 1909 

1. Name the different classes into which food may be divided. 

2. Name two animal and two vegetable foods which contain fat. 

3. Prepare a day's menu for a patient, excluding starchy foods 
as far as possible, while giving a variety. ^ 

4. What useful function may be performed by the indigestible 
parts of vegetables. 

5. Show why a mixed diet is advisable. 

6. Give one method of predigesting milk. 

7. Prepare a day's menu of at least six meals for a patient with 
mild fever, excluding milk, but giving as much variety as per- 
missible in a fiuid diet. 

8. What are sweetbreads, and how would you prepare and serve 
them? 

9. Why is a thorough cooking especially important in cereal foods 
and not in flesh foods? 

10. Write the rules for preparing three desserts you would use 
in feeding a typhoid fever patient during convalescence. 

11. Give a list of fruits you would recommend for their laxative 
effect. 

January, 1910 

1. Give a brief description of the care of glass drinking tubes 
used by typhoid patients. 

2. Give recipe for (1) partial peptonisation of milk; (2) junket. 



INTRODUCTION xxiii 

3. Mention the foods allowed according to the following classifi- 
cation: (1) Liquid; (2) Soft; (3) Light. 

4. How would you render the following sterile: (1) Woolen 
blankets; (2) Cotton sheets; (3) Rubber catheters; (4) Your hands? 

5. In making up modification of milk give in detail from the 
time you receive the milk until you give it to the infant the pre- 
cautions you would take to keep certified milk pure. 

6. Tell what you know of either tea or coffee, its production-, 
preparation, use and abuse. 

7. What cuts of beef would you select for the following purposes : 
(1) Beef juice; (2) Roast beef; (3) A tender steak? 

8. What action has prolonged cooking on (1) starch grains; (2) 
albumin ? 

9. What different methods would you employ in cooking chicken 
for (1) broths; (2) fricassee? Why? 

10. Give minute details of your care of the linen used on the bed of 
a scarlet fever patient. 

January, 1911 

1. Describe the diet to be given to a patient after an operation 
on (a) the liver, (b) the stomach. 

2. What diet would you give to a patient with scarlet fever ? Give 
your reasons. 

3. What is the effect in cooking (a) meat, (b) vegetables? 

4. State why green vegetables are valuable in diets. 

5. Give the preparation of (a) koumiss, (b) whey. 

6. Give a list of six fluid foods. 

7. What are the best natural disinfectants? 

8. What precautions would you take in the use of water where 
the supply is impure? 

9. What are some of the diseases attributed to an impure water 
supply? 

10. Describe fully one method of ventilation for a sick room. 

January, 1912 

1. Of what use is gelatin as food? 

2. What points must be observed in the cooking and serving of 
cereals ? 

3. Name the five most important food compounds. 

4. Name some of the points to be considered in the amount of 
food needed by an individual? 

5. What action do the gastric fluids have on milk? How would 
you prepare milk to make it more digestible? 

6. What is the effect of toasting bread? 

7. State your reasons for adding salads to a diet? 

8. What points should be considered in selecting a disinfectant? 



xxiY INTRODUCTION 

9. In what ways is scarlet fever communicated? 
10. What precautions would you take for both your patient and 
yourself before leaving quarantine for scarlet fever? 

January, 1913 

1. State why food should be thoroughly masticated if good 
digestion is to result. 

2. What are the uses of fruit in a diet? 

3. Define the terms (a) Hygiene, (5) Dietetics. 

4. State how you would prepare {a) barley water, (6) oatmeal 
^uel, (c) albumen water. 

6. Describe fully how to prepare (a) beef broth, (5) mutton 
broth (c) beef juice. 

6. What are predigested foods? 

7. Why is the study of dietetics a valuable asset in the training 
of a nurse? 

8. State what you know of the reason for the present movement 
Against nurses wearing their uniforms on the street. 

9. What are communicable diseases ? Give a list of them. 

10. State fully how you would disinfect a room in a private house 
after a case of typhoid fever. 

June, 1913 

1. How would you prepare and serve (a) soft boiled egg;, (6) 
poached egg? 

2. What is a salt free diet, and in what diseases is it often 
•ordered ? 

3. Describe fully the diet for a rheumatic patient. 

4. Describe the following diets and tell what can be given under 
the different headings, (a) Liquid, (5) Soft, (c) Light. 

5. Give the preparations of a nutritive enema. 

6. How is lime water prepared? Why is it added to milk? 

7. Give some of the essential points for a nurse to observe in 
serving meals to (a) a weak convalescent, (&) a helpless patient, (c) 
an unconscious one. 

8. What are the uses of condiments? Give a list of them. 

9. Has a nurse any duties in a home other than the care of her 
patient? 

10. Define the terms (a) contagion, (6) incubation, (c) crisis^ 
(d) quarantine, (e) immunity. 

(Tabulate answers where possible.) 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

1908 
1. Name three foodstuffs rich in albumin in the order of their 
importance. 



INTRODUCTION xxv 

2. Describe process of digestion and absorption of albuminoids. 

3. What is the object of cooking vegetables and of cooking meats? 

4. Give frequency of feeding patient on liquid diet and on plain 
diet; why the difference? 

6. Name any two diseased conditions which may be brought about 
by dietetic error ; state how ? 

1909 

1. Name the different classes of foodstuffs and give an example 
of each. 

2. What are the chief ingredients in fruits? 

3. Describe the action of the gastric juice on food. 

4. State the length of time required to cook properly the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, rice, and cornmeal mush. 

6. Give the two complete food products furnished by the animal 
kingdom. 

ILLINOIS 
January, 1911 

1. Define food and name the five principles. 

2. What are some of the uses of water in the body? 

3. What physical and mental conditions decrease the secretion of 
the digestive juices? 

4. Discuss the value of (a) Milk, (b) Beef Tea, (c) Beef Juice. 

5. Name some diseases that may be caused by the following errors 
indict: (a) Insufficient food, (b) Lack of fresh food, (c) Overeating, 
(d) Improperly balanced diet. 

Julv, 1911 

1. Discuss feeding the sick, under the following headings: Gen- 
eral rules, appetite, the tray. 

2. Define food. Name the different classes of foodstuffs, according 
to their chemical composition, and give the special function of each. 

3. What is meant by " certified milk," " pasteurized milk«'* " modi- 
fied milk"? 

4. Outline one day's diet for a normal child three years of age. 

5. What diseases may result from: improperly balanced diet, in- 
sufficient food, over-feeding, lack of fresh food. 

January, 1912 

1. Classify food under (a) source, (6) chemical composition, (c) 
function. 

2. Describe the gradual effect of increased heat on white of an egg 
(albumin). 

3. What is lactose and where found? 

4. (a) Of what use is sugar in practical dietetics? (6) What is 
the substitution for sugar, and where found? 



xxvi INTRODUCTION 

5. What are the chief sources of fat in a general diet? 
G. (a) What are the food uses of water? (6) What is distilled 
water and why not used as a beverage? 
7. Discuss diet in tuberculosis. 

July, 1912 

1. (a) Give the theory of cooking starch. 

(b) What secretions assist in the digestion of starch? 

2. (a) What are the characteristics of an ideal piece of toast? 
(b) How is toast to be served? 

3. (a) Why does milk become sour? 
(b) Is sour milk harmful? 

(e) What preventive measures can be used in summer to keep 
milk from becoming sour? 

4. (a) Define foodstulTs. 

(b) What are the uses of foods? 

5. What is meant by a Calorie? 

(b) How many Calories are needed by the average adult in 
healtli? 

G. Describe live ways of preparing milk and eggs, either separately 
or together, with which to vary a liquid diet. 

7. Name four points which should be considered in the feeding of 
patients. 

8. What changes take place in the making of wheat flour into 
bread ? 

MISSOURI 
June, 1913 

1. Name different classes of foodstuffs, and give an example of 
each. 

2. Give theory of cooking starches, and tell where and by what 
digested. 

3. (a) What is Predigested milk? (b) Modified milk? (c) 
Certified milk? 

4. (a) What is the composition of water? (b) Boiling point, 
freezing point? (c) How would you render boiled water palatable? 
(d) How would you boil water for Tea? (e) Should Tea he an 
Infusion or a Decoction f 

5. Describe the process of making (a) Beef Tea, (b) Beef Juice. 
C. (a) What should be eliminated from the diet of a Dropsical 

patient ? 

(b) Why is the diet of auch importance in Tuberculosis? 

7. What is the value of (a) Sugar in food? (b) Mineral mat- 
ters in food? (c) Condiments? 

8. How should an egg be cooked for an invalid, and how served? 



INTRODUCTION xxvii 

9. What class of foods are restricted in Diabetes? Give one 
reason. 

10. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? Give reason. 

11. State some of the advantages and disadvantages of milk in a 
case of Typhoid Fever. 

12. What class of Vegetables are rich in Protein? 

13. Give two formulas for Rectal feeding. 

September, 1913 

1. Name different classes of foodstuffs, and give an example of 
each. 

2. Give theory of cooking starches, and tell where and by what 
digested. 

3. (a) What is Predigested milk? (b) Modified milk? (c) 
Certified milk? 

4. (a) What is the composition of water? (b) boiling point, 
freezing point? (c) How would you render boiled water palatable? 
(d) How would you boil water for Tea? (e) Should Tea be an 
Infusion or a Decoction? 

5. Describe the process of making (a) Beef Tea, (b) Beef Juice. 

6. (a) What should be eliminated from the diet of a Dropsical 
patient? 

(b) Why is the diet of such importance in Tuberculosis? 

7. What is the value of (a) Sugar in food? (b) Mineral mat- 
ters in food? (c) Condiments? 

8. How should an egg be cooked for an invalid, and how served? 

9. What class of foods are restricted in Nephritis? Give one 
reason. 

10. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? Give reason. 

11. State some of the advantages and disadvantages of milk in a 
case of Typhoid Fever. 

12. What class of Vegetables are rich in Protein? 

NEW YORK 
1907 

1. What effect has cooking on meat? 

2. Give recipe for veal broth made from a half pound of veal. 

3. State the length of time required to cook properly the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, Irish oatmeal, steamed rice, cornmeal mush. 

4. How would you make a flour ball? 

5. Give recipe for making an oyster stew containing a pint of 
oysters. 

6. How would you determine whether or not an egg is fresh? 



xxviii INTRODUCTION 

7. Which is more quickly digested, a raw egg or a sott-boiled 
egg! WhjT 

8. Give a recipe for egg sandwich, 

9. Give the general rules for making custards. 

10. How -would you bake a banana and prepare it for a patieutt 

1908 H 

1. What are tbe uses of water in the body! ^M 

2. Name three vegetable acids. ^H 

3. Give three eiamplea of foods iu which starch is found, ^| 

4. Of what value is sugar as food! 

6, Give three examples of food containing fat. 

6. What hygienic effect baa heat, on milk? 

T. How should an egg be boiled! How should it be scrveil to an 
invalid f 

8. How would you make a raw beef sandwich? 

0. Why is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked! 

10. Give recipe for lemon jelly, B 

11. Outline a breakfast for a convalescent man. '^^t 

12. Outline b, dinner for a convalescent woman. ^^M 

13. Give recipe for creamy rice pudding. | 

14. Of what value are fruits as food! 

15. Whiit are the requirements of food for a fever patient in order 
that proper nourishment may be obtained! 

1900 

1. What is meant by predigested food! 

2. What effect on tbe system has hot water when taken internally? 

3. What effect has stcriliiuttion on milk? 

4. What is condensed milk! State its value as a. food. 

5. How is limewater made? 
0. What is farinaceous diet? 

7. What are tbe most important food products derived from the 
vegetable kingdom? h 

8. State the effect of cofTco on the system. ^M 

9. What are concentrated foods! State their chief use. ^M 

10. State the food value of green vegetables. ^M 

11. What are the diet requirements in anecmia! 

12. Mention some factors, apart from proper diet, that specially 
affect tbe digestion. 

13. Name some diseases that may be caused by the following errors 
in diet: (a) insufficient food; (b) overeating: (c) lack of fresh 
food; (d) improperly balanced diet. 

14. What are the reasons for limiting tbe diet of a young child 
to certain foods t 



^^^P INTRODUCTION sxix 

P IS. Wbat changes in diet Hhould be made in advanced yearet 

IWhyj I 

I February, 1911 ' 

P 1. Why ehould the nurse have & working knowledge of dietetiesT 

I 2. ClnsBify the food principles as [a] organic or inorganic, |6) 

t ititrogenous or non-nit rogenoui. 

I 3. Explain why carbohydrates alone are not suflicient for a , 

r dietary. I 

I 4. Name the digestive fernienta and give their functions. 

I 5. Describe in detail the proper care of milk from the time it la 

f drawn till it is used. • 

I 6, Compare the advantages and the disadvantages of sterilized 

f milk with those of pasteurized milk. 

I T. Trace the digestioii of a glass of milk. 

I 8. State why it is important for a convalescent typhoid patient 

I to reiume solid food gradually. 

I 9. What diet would you give to an antemic patient, if the matter 

Bvere left to your discretion? 

r 10. What is the effect of heat on [a) starch, {b) albumen! 

11. What is cellulose and what is its valuer 

12. What is the disadvantage of boiled water and how may this 
disadvantage be overcome t 

13. Give four points to be considered in tbe preparation of an 
I Inralid's tray. 

14. Give concisely the ingredients and tbe method of preparation 
|of (a) beef t«a, (b) oatmeal gruel. 

10. Why is it beat to surround the cups with cold water when 
[ratting custards in to bake? 

June, mil 

1. State tbe uses of food. 

2. What processes are necessary to make food of use to th« 
I body? 

3. What is the object of the digestion of food t 

4. What food principles require digestion? 

6. Name (wo vegetables cimtaining a good proportion of proteid. 
6. Name tico vegetables containing a large proportion of carbo- 
ftl^rate. 

T> Name tuxi vegetables containing a, large amount of salts. 
6. Why are fruits a. valuable addition to a general diet? 
9. What food principle predominates in nuts? 

10. Why are meats restricted of forbidden in cases of nephritis? 

11. Why are carbohydrates restricted in cases of diabefesi 

12. Why is a salt-free diet often ordered in illness when there is 



XXX INTRODUCTION 

13. Why are meats more digestible when broiled of roasted than 
when fried? 

14. Give the method of making chicken broth. 

15. Mention two ways of removing fat from a soup. 

February, 1912 

1. In what places and under what names is food stored in the 
body? 

2. Give the mechanical processes of digestion. 

3. Of what elements is proteid food composed? 

4. In health what are the advantages of drinking large quantities 
of water? 

5. Outline for a nephritic patient the three meals for one day. 

6. What is (a) chyme, (6) chyle? 

7. What are the uses of condiments? 

8. Why is table salt an essential part of our diet? 

9. What is a calorie? 

10. What articles of food would you avoid giving to a rheumatic 
patient? 

•11. What vegetables and fruits would you give to a patient with 
a tendency to constipation? Why? 

12. What food principle is lacking in eggs? 

13. Explain briefly the process used in raising and baking bread. 

14. How would you make and serve toast in order to increase its 
digestibility ? 

16. Describe the process of making tea, giving reasons for this 
process. 

June, 1912 

1. What is a mixed diet? What are its advantages in health? 

2. Why is fresh air necessary to nutrition? 

3. What may be used as a substitute for sugar in cases where 
carbohydrate food is limited? 

4. Mention four chief sources of fat in the diet. 

6. Which is the more easily digested, fat or carbohydrate food? 

6. What is distilled water? Why is it unsuitable for use as a 
beverage ? 

7. Why is salt used with ice in freezing ice cream? 

8. What is buttermilk? What are its uses? 

9. Mention two signs that indicate that an ^gg is fresh. 

10. What kinds of food would you give in cases of diarrhea? 

11. What kinds of food would you give in cases of constipation? 

12. What is broiling? What are its advantages over frying? 

13. How would you peptonize a pint of milk by the cold process? 

14. Tell how you would prepare and serve raw beef sandwiches. 

15. Describe briefly the necessary steps in making mutton broth. 



INTRODUCTION xxxi 

January, 1913 

1. Name three juices in the body that aid digestion. 

2. Why do water and mineral salts not require digestion) 

3. What is digestion? 

4. What is the name of the special substance in any digestive 
juice, which brings about chemical changes in the food? 

5. Where in the body does the oxidation of food take place? 

6. What is meant by the caloric value of food? 

7. What special value has proteid food? 

8. Name the ferments in the pancreatic juice. 

9. Outline three meals for a patient with chronic constipation. 

10. Why is it now considered desirable not to restrict the diet in 
typhoid fever to fluids only? 

11. What may be the advantage of giving eggs raw in cases of 
tuberculosis ? 

12. How may hard drinking water generally be rendered soft? 

13. Why should potatoes be thoroughly cooked? 

14. Tell how you would make and serve oatmeal gruel. 

15. Tell how you would cream oysters for one person. 

June 1913 

1. Define (a) chyme, (6) chyle. 

2. At what age may a healthy child begin to digest starches? 

3. In what organs and by what enzymes are starches digested? 

4. Mention three results gained by the cooking of food. 

5. Give the freezing and the boiling point of (a) the Fahrenheit 
thermometer, (6) the centigrade thermometer. 

6. Make a list of five tissue-building foods. 

7. What does the term "top milk" mean? 

8. When 10% top milk is used, what is the relative proportion 
of fat to proteid? 

9. Outline the daily care of an ice box. 

10. Contrast the cooking of meat in making broth and in broiling. 

11. Describe the care of milk in the home. Give reasons for your 
answer. 

12. How would you make junket? State the source of rennet. 

13. Give the general rule for making cream vegetable soups. 

14. Tell how you would make cocoa and give your reasons for thus 
making it. 

15. Name two diseases in which carbohydrate food is limited. 

NORTH CAROLINA 

1908 

1. In what foods are ptomaine poisoning most likely to be found? 
How may this be avoided? 



xxxii INTRODUCTION 

2. What can you say of the effect of long or second cooking of 
albuminous foods? State whether or not this increases their di- 
gestibility. 

3. Give a list of the easily digested meats, (a) Describe method 
of cooking one of these, (b) Najne those you would not give an 
invalid, giving reasons. 

4. Give a list of foods you have been accustomed to giving con- 
valescents from typhoid fever, between the liquid and full diet 
period. 

5. What foods have you given your obstetrical cases during the 
first two weeks? 

6. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? 

7. Name such foods as you would give a healthy child from 12 
to 18 months of age. 

8. What vegetables supply about the same elements for the ijB- 
tern as meats? 

9. What can you say of the long and second cooking of starchy 
foods? 

10. Kame such vegetables and fruits as you would give an invalid. 
State reasons. 

1909 

1. Give theory of cooking starches and tell where and by what 
digested. 

2. Name the cereals that require long cooking and give approxi- 
mate time. 

3. Why do we toast bread? 

4. What disease is usually given a carbohydrate-free diet? 
6. Name the heat and energy-giving foods. 

6. What do you consider an ideal diet? 

7. What should be the characteristics of an invalid's diet? 

8. What are some of the advantages of vegetables and fruits in 
our own diet ? 

9. Why is cow's milk more likely to disagree with infants during 
the summer than in cold weather? 

10. Up to the present have we been benefited by the pure food 
laws? 

11. Which contains more nourishment, fji of beef juice or fji 

of beef tea? 

12. Give a list of tissue-building foods. 

13. What should be the diet of a case of acute nephritis? (6) 
A case of eclampsia preceding or following labor? 

14. Give several ways in which milk and eggs may be prepared 
and flavored to give variety to liquid diet. 



INTRODUCTION 



XX21U 



' 15. State some of the iLdvaotageis and disadvantages of milk, as 
a food for invalids. 

June, 11)12 

1. Name the different sourcea of fooda. 

2. From what source do we have (a) Proteida, (b) Carbohj-- 
drates, {c) Salts. 

3. What elements do the diSerent classes supply to the body — 
(a) Proteids, (h) Carbohydrates, (c) Salts, 

4. What is the relative value of skimmed and unskimmed milk, 
and why? 

5. What important function does water perform in the body? 

C. Mention some points to be remembered in serving food to 
patients. 

7. Which is preferable, to serve too little or an overabundance to 
a patient, and why? 

8. If you were doing private nursing and could not get ice, bow 
would you keep eggs and milk fresh! 

9. Name several ways of cooking eggs for invalids. 
10. Give directions for making whey. 

November, 1912 
1. (a) Define foodstuffs, (b) What are the uses of food? 
Z. (a) What causes milk to aourf (b) What preventive meaa- 
nres can be used to keep milk from becoming sour? 

3. Describe six ways of preparing milk and eggs, either Heparately* 
or together, with which to vary a liquid diet. 

4. What classes of foodstuffs should be excluded from a, rheumatic 
diet, and why? 

5. (a) Give the theory of cooking starch, (b) What accretions 
assist in the digestion of starches? 

8. Mention some diseases in which the diet forms an important 
part in the treatment of disease, or in which errors in diet may have 
serious consequences. 

7. What foods are excluded from a diabetic diet? and give the 
substitutes. 

8. |a) Why is the diet of such importance in the treatment of 
tuberculosis! (b) Of what fooda does the diet chiefly consist? 

9. Why is thorough cooking of cereal foods especially important? 
10. (a) What is a Calorie? (b) How many Calories required 

daily by an adult I 



k 



xxxiv INTRODUCTION 

NEW HAMPSHIRE 

May, 1911 

1. Of what value is food to the human body? 

2. What is the average composition of cow's milk? Mother's 
milk? 

3. State in detail a method of peptonizing milk. 

4. Why are different foods cooked? 

5. What should be the diet of a tubercular patient in the incipi- 
ent stage? 

6. What is the usual form of diet in acute gastritis? 

7. What foods should be avoided if there is a tendency to flatu- 
lency ? 

8. What should be the general diet in diseases of the heart? 

9. What class of foods is to be avoided in diabetes mellitus? 
10. Give in detail a day's diet for a diabetic patient. 

October, 1911 

1. Compare mother's and cow's milk. 

2. What are nitrogenous foods? 

3. What foods can be given a patient with diabetes? Give a 
breakfast, dinner and supper for such a patient. 

4. Of what value is beef broth as a food? 

6. Give a detailed method of making baked custards for the sick. 

6. What should be the diet of an habitually constipated person? 

7. Give in detail the diet of a typhoid patient from the beginning 
to the termination of the disease. 

8. How would you make corn-meal gruel ? Oyster stew ? Chicken 
broth ? 

9. What is the diet in acute nephritis? 

10. How would you prepare a steak? A chop? 

April, 1912 

1. Kame the chief classes of food. 

2. When should water be boiled and why? 

3. What value has nitrogenous food? 

4. State in detail the preparation of egg-albumin for a typhoid 
patient. 

6. State in detail how you would make chicken broth. 

C. Give a breakfast, dinner and supper diet for diabetes mellitus. 

7. How would you make an egg-nog? tea? coffee? 

8. How would you prepare and serve a steak? a chop? 

9. What is milk? Name four milk products. 
10. How would you peptonize milk? 



INTROD UCTION sxrt| 

October, 1913 

1. How would you cook a steak t A chop? What are th: 
vantages of joiir method of cooking over other methods! 

2. How long would you cook a cereal? Why? 

3. How would you make a cup of cofTee? Of teat 

4. Give a diabetic breakfast, dinner and supper in detail. 

5. What is a proper diet to give in acute Bright'a diBeasel 
G. Of what value are the meat broths as foodsT 
7. What is the use of the Pure Food Lawel What is food | 

adulteration t 

S. How may foods be classified T 
9. State in detail a method of peptonizing milkT 
10. Of what value is milk as a food? 

OKLAHOMA 
October, 1912 

1. Give definition of food. 

2. Why is a mixed diet necessary as an ideal diet? 

3. Describe the gradual effect of heat on the wliite of an 
(Albumin.) 

4. How should an egg lie boiled and served to an invalid? 

5. How would you make and serve toaat to increase its digesti- 
bility? 

0. What do you consider an ideal typhoid diet? 

7. Why is cow's milk more likely to disagree with an infant dur- 
Dg summer than in cold weather? 

3. What is important in the cooking of starchy foods? 
9. Give diet for obstetrical patient during first week. 
10. Give one good nutritive enema. 

TEXAS 

November, 1912 

1. Name the difi'erent classes into which food may be divided. 

2. How would you make beef broth? Beef juice? 

3. What class of foods should be excluded from a rheumatic diet 
and why? 

4. Name three foodstuffs rich in albumin. 

6. Give a. general outline of diet for a typhoid fever patient. 
One for a diabetic patient. 

6. Give a. list of fruits to bo recommended (or laxative effect. 

7. Why is a, mixed diet necessary? 

8. What effect does boiling have upon tea? 

6. Why is thorough cooking especially important in cereal foodst 
10. Give points to be observed in setting an- invalid's tray. 



ixxvi INTRODUCTION 

VIRGINIA 
December, 1911 

1. Name the principal chemical elements contained in the human 
body. 

2. Why is a mixed diet necessary? 

3. How would you prepare beef juice? How much juice will one 
pound of beef make? 

4. Give examples of liquid and soft diet. 

5. What would you give a typhoid patient when he is first al- 
lowed solid food? 

6. What point should always be observed in cooking cereals? 
Mention a complete food. 

WASHINGTON 

1909 

1. State the length of time required to properly cook the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, rice, cornmeal mush. 

2. Of what value are fruits in digestion? 

3. How should an egg be boiled? How should it be served to 
an invalid? 

4. How would you make a raw beef sandwich ? 

5. What are the requirements of food for a fever patient in order 
that the proper nourishment may be obtained? 

6. Why is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked? 

7. What is meant by predigested food? 

8. How would you prepare extract of beef from the raw beef ? 

9. Briefly outline a diet for diabetics. 

10. Would you boil cocoa? Give reasons for your answer. 

1910 

1. How would you prepare a beefsteak? Give reasons for method 
employed. 

2. Why is the saliva an important factor in the digestive process? 

3. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 

4. Name one good nutritive enema. 

5. What is important in cooking starchy foods? 

6. What would you include in a soft diet for an invalid? 

7. Briefly outline a diet for a patient suffering from pulmonary 
tuberculosis. 

8. What are the diet requirements in a case of anaemia ? 

9. What class of foods should be excluded from a rheumatic diet 
and why? 

10. How do you prepare an egg omelet? Coffee? Cocoa? Tea? 



INTRODUCTION xxxvii 

June, 1013 

1. Name the uses of water in the body. 

2. What are the special functions of the following food princi- 
pals? (a) Proteins, (b) Fats, (c) Carbohydrates. 

3. What constitutes a perfect food? 

4. Give formula for modifying milk for infant feeding; and your 
reasons for the need of modifying. 

5. Give in detail the precautions you would take to keep certified 
milk pure. 

6. How is milk pasteurized? 

7. Name several articles of food in which iron is available. 

8. What general rules should be observed in the care and cooking 
of cereals? 

9. Of what value are fruit juices? 

10. Give dietetic treatment in acute rheumatism. 

11. State briefiy what instruction you have had in Dietetics. 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 
IlTTBODUGTION xiii 

The American Hospital Association — Colorado — 
Illinois — Minnesota — New York State Board Re- 
quirements in Dietetics. 

PAKT I 

PEIJSTCIPLES OF NUTKITIOISr AJSTD FOOD 

PKEPAKATIOISr 

OHAPTEB 

I Food 3 

General Object — Definition — Food Accessories (or 
Food Adjuncts) — Source — Composition of the Body 

— Composition of Food — Classification of Food — 
NiTBOOENOUS, Protein and Extractives — Non-Nitro- 
OENOUS, Carbohydrates (Starch and Sugar), Fats — 
Water — Mineral Matter. Food Accessories — Condi- 
tions for Perfect Nutrition. 

II Nutrition 3C 

Digestion : — Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — 
Mineral Matter — Water. Resume of Digestion — 
Factors Determining Rate of Digestion. Absorption : 

— Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — Mineral Matter 

— Water. Metabolism : — Protein — Fats — Carbo- 
hydrates. Excretion. 

in Food Values 64 

The Balance of Energy and Nitrogen Equilibrium, 
The Energy Value of Food — Energy Requirements of 
the Body — Tables Showing the Nutritive Value of 
Food. 

IV Feeding the Sictk 72 

General Rules — Physicians' Directions — Feeding 

XXXIX 



XL CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

in Acute Disease — Evidences of Digestion — The Ap- 
petite — Punctuality in Serving — Quality and Quan- 
tity of Food — Temperature of Food -^ Details in 
Feeding — Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth — Time 
and Position for Feeding — Sleep and Feeding — 
Feeding the Helpless Patient — Feeding the Uncon- 
scious Patient — Forced Feeding — Nasal Feeding — 
Use of the Stomach Tube — Rectal Feeding — Use of 
Alcohol in the Sickroom — Keeping Ice in the Sick- 
• room — Disinfecting Utensils. 

V The Tray 85 

Attractive Arrangement of a Tray. How to Serve 
(General Rules). 

VI Methods of Cooking and Care of Food 88 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Cooked Food 

— Success in Cooking — Objective Points in Cooking 

— Effect of Heat — Principles Governing the Choice 
of a Method of Cooking Any Food — Principal Cook- 
ing Processes — The Object of each Cooking Process — 
Cooking Utensils — Blending Ingredients — Method 
of Working — Ice Box and Contents — Care of Food 

— Preserving Foods — Concentration — Predigestion 
of Food — Adulteration of Food. 

VII Measures and Weights 98 

Table of Measures and Weights — Apothecaries 
Weight — Apothecaries Measure — Approximate Meas- 
ures — Metric System — Measures of Volume — Meas- 
ure of Weight — Table of Equivalents — Table for Pre- 
paring Percentage Solution — Thermometry. 

PAKT II 

PEACTICAL APPLICATIOISr OF PEINCIPLES 

OF NUTKITION 

BECIPES 

VIII Be^^eraoes 109 

Add Beverages 110 

Recipes 110 



CONTENTS XLi 

OHAJmCD PAGE 

Albuminous Beverages . . 118 

Recipes 118 

Starchy Beverages 124 

Recipes 124 

Miscellaneous Beverages . . / 127 

Tea 127 

Recipes 131 

Coffee 128 

Recipes 131 

Chocolate 129 

Recipes 134 

Cocoa 129 

Recipes 133 

Special Non-Nutritive Beverages 136 

Recipes 136 

IX Animal Foods 138 

Meat 140 

Recipes 149 

Poultry and Game 152 

Recipes 163 

Fish 159 

Recipes 162 

Fish Sauces 165 

Recipes 165 

Shell Fish 166 

Oysters 166 

Recipes 169 

Clams 168 

Recipes 172 

Eggs 175 

Recipes 179 

Milk and Milk Products 184 

Recipes 193 

Sweetbreads 200 

Recipes 201 

Gelatin 203 

Recipes 204 

Beef Preparations 212 

Beef Juice 212 

Recipes 214 



XLii CONTENTS 

CHAFTEB PAGB 

Beef Tea 213 

Recipes 215 

Raw Beef 214 

Recipes 217 

Meat Broths 217 

Recipes 219 

Meat Jellies 217 

Recipes 221 

Soups 223 

Recipes 223 

Soup Accompaniments 229 

Recipes 229 

X Vegetable ob Plant Foods 231 

Cereals 233 

Gruels 236 

Recipes 238 

Breakfast Foods 235 

Recipes 242 

Starchy Jellies 244 

Recipes 244 

Macaroni 245 

Recipes 245 

Bread 247 

Recipes 250 

Toast 265 

Recipes 256 

Sandwiches 258 

Recipes 259 

Crackers and Wafers 260 

Recipes 260 

Vegetables 261 

Recipes 265 

Vegetable Sauces 27 1 

Recipes 271 

Salads 272 

Recipes 274 

Salad Dressings 272 

Recipes 273 



Fruits 276 

Recipes 279 

Nuts 283 

Fungi and Alga 264 

XI NvTBinous Debsertb 286 

Hot and Cold Desserta 286 

Soft CuHtarda 287 

Itecipea 287 

Baked Cuatarda 288 

Recipes 288 

Whips end Souffles 260 

Recipes 291 

Junket 2B8 

Recipes 298 

Cornstarch Pudding or Blanc Mange 296 

Recipes 295 

Rice Puddings 297 

Recipes 297 

Tapioca 300 

Recipes 300 

Bread Puddings 302 

Recipes 302 

Cracker Puddings 304 

Recipes 304 

Pudding Sauces 305 

Recipes 306 

Frozen Desaerta 306 

Ice Cream 306 

Recipes 307 

Sherbet 306 

Recipes 312 

Ices 306 

B«dpes 313 

m Caee 317 

Kedpes 318 



XLiv CONTENTS 

PAET ni 

HOSPITAL DIETAEIES — DIET IN DISEASE 
— DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



PAflB 

Xni Hospital Dietabies 323 

Genebai. Ttfes 01* Diet Used in Hospitals : — 
Liquid or Fluid Foods — Soft or Semi-Solid Food — 
Solid Food. 

Typical Diets fbom VABions Hospitals: — Light 
Diet or Gonyalescent Diet — Typical light Diet 

— Milk Diet — Fluid Diet — Soft Diet — Soft SoUds 

— Liquid or Farinaceous -^ Farinaceoua Diet — Ni- 
trogenous Diet— Nutrient Diet — Oxaluric Diet — 
Strict Sugar-free Diet — Fat-free Diet — Salt-free 
Diet — Test Diet — Fish Diet — Broth Diet — Be- 
stricted Diet — Extra Diet — Dietary of the Bellevue 
Hospital, New York, 1910 — Dietary of the Presby- 
terian Hospital, New York, 1910. 

DIET IN DISEASE 

XIV Diet in Fevers and Infectious Diseases ^ . . . 381 

Diet in Fever in Greneral — Diet in Ck)nvale8- 

cence from Fever — Typhoid Fever — Starvation 

Treatment of Typhoid — Liquid Diet in T^rphoid — 

Liberal or Generous Diet — Liquid Diet in Typhoid 

— (1) Fluid Diet in l^hoid— (2) Fluid Diet in 
Typhoid — Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid — 
Diet in Typhoid after Two Days of Normal Tempera- 
ture — Diet in l^phoid after Two Weeks of Normal 
Temperature — Typhoid Delicacies — Typhoid Extra 
Diet — Liberal Diet in Typhoid (Frederick a Shut- 
tuck, M.D.) — Tonsilitis and Quinsy — Diphtheria 

— Pneumonia — Broncho-Pneumonia — Mumps — 
Whooping Cough — Diet in Tuberculosis, Especially 
Pulmonary Consumption. 

XV Ddbt in Disobdess or Nutrition 805 

Diet in Diabetes <— Diabetic Diet of Bellevue Hospi- 
tal — Diabetic Diet of Pronbytcrion Hospital — Dia- 



CONTENTS XLV 

CHAPTER PAGE 

betic Diet of Massachusetts General Hospital — Strict 
Sugar-free Diabetic Diet — Chronic Diabetes Diet — 
Substitutes for Starch and Sugar — A Diabetic Chart 
(Elliott P. Joslin, M.D.) — Menus for the Diabetic 

— Diet in Lithemia or Excess of Uric Acid — Acute 
Gout — Chronic Gout — Acute Rheumatism — Chronic 
Rheumatism — Diet in Obesity. 

XVI Diet in the Diseases of the Stomach 373 

Acute Gastritis — Chronic Gastritis — Ulcer of the 
Stomach — Outline of Diet in Gastric Ulcer (Max 
Einhom, M.D.) — Gastric Ulcer Diet — Dr. Hewes's 
Diet, The Lenhartz Diet — The Lenhartz Diet Sheet. 

XVII Diet in Intestinal Diseases 381 

Dyspepsia — Constipation — Diarrhoea — Dysen- 
tery — Diet for Acute Colitis (Dysentery) — Chronic 
Dysentery — Enteric Diet — Special Enteric Diet — 
Liquid Enteric Diet — Appendicitis. 

XVIII Diet in Disease of the Genito-Urinabt System . . 390 

Acute Bright's Disease — Chronic Bright's Disease 

— Nephritic Diet — Acute Nephritis, Uric Acid 
Gravel — Convulsion in Bright's Disease — Albumi- 
nuria. 

XIX Diet in Miscellaneous Affections 395 

Nervous Disorders — Functional Disorders of the 
Liver (Biliousness) — Skin Diseases — Heart Dis- 
ease — Dietetic Management of Surgical Cases — 
Diet after Laparotomy, Ovariotomy, etc 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 
Motherhood 401 

Diet in Pregnancy — Vomiting of Pregnancy — 
(Vomiting of Seasickness) — Diet for the Mother 
after Labor — Diet for a Nursing Mother or Wet 
Nurse. 



XLVi CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PACOS 

XXI Infant Feeding 406 

General Considerations — Breast Feeding — The 
Wet Nurse — Composition of Mother's Milk — The 
Hygiene of Natural Feeding — Capacity of Babies' 
Stomachs — Schedule for Nursing — Weaning — Arti- 
ficial or Bottle Feeding — Difference Between Human 
and Cow^s Milk — General Principles of Milk Modi- 
fications — What Dilution to Use — The Quantity to 
Feed — Laboratory Milk — Home Modification — The 
Nursing Bottle — Formulae for Infant Feeding — Top 
Milk Method (L. Emmett Holt, M.D.) Card for Per- 
centage Feeding of Infants (Maynard Ladd, M.D.) 

— Formulse for Preparing Infant Food from Ster- 
ilized Sugar of Milk — Scheme for Feeding Babies 
(Society of the Lying-In Hospital, New York City) 

— Peptogenic Milk Powder, Modifies Cow's Milk. 

XXII The Feeding op Young Children 434 

General Rules for Feeding Young Children — Table 
of Comparison, Food Required by Child and Man — 
Table showing Increase of Calories Required for a 
Growing Child — Dietaries for Young Children 
(Louis Starr, M.D.) — General Principles of Feeding 
Sick Children. 

XXIII Diet fob the Adolescent — Diet fob the Sedentary 

— Diet fob the Aged 442 

Index to Recipes 447 

General Index 465 



PAET I 

PEINOIPLES OP NUTRITION AND FOOD 

PEEPAEATIONS 



I 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



rOOD: IIS OBJECT 

Mainteaonoe of lAfe and Energy 

There are few subjects deserving of more careful consid- 
eration than that of food; its composition, preparation, and 
effect upon the human system ; together with tlie process of its 
conversion into complex animal tissue, as brain or muscle, 
blood or bone. 

The true science of feeding should be thoroughly studied, 
that we may understand what properties enter into food; 
what elements the system demands in order to build or re- 
pair; by what means the necessary substances are best sup- 
plied, and how to prepare them that the body may maintain 
its efficiency; so tliat in case of illness, the least possible de- 
mands upon the digestive and assimilative functions may be 
made. 

Apart from the labor of every-day life in which brain and 
muscle engage, an immense amount of work is performed in 
the mere act of keeping alive. Nowhere in nature is work 
performed without a supply of energy, and also some wear 
and tear of the machine which does the work. This asser- 
tion is as true of the human body as of the locomotive, and 
just as the machine — whatever it may be — requires to be 
supplied with the conditions necessary for the prodoction of 
force, so the living body similarly demands a supply of ma- 
terial from which its energy — the power of doing the work — 
can be taken. As the locomotive obtains the necessary con- 




4 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ditions from the fuel and water (and air) which it consumes, 
so the living body derives its energy from the food, water 
and air upon which it subsists. 

Definition of Food. Foods are substances which when 
taken into the body supply the necessary elements for pro- 
moting its growth and repairing its waste; and furnish it with 
material from which to produce heat and internal or external 
work. Substances that are unable to assist in either of these 
ways are called food accessories or food adjuncts. 

Food Accessories or Food Adjuncts. These are substances 
which, although unable to fulfill the definition of foods, find 
an extensive use in the dietary, for a variety of reasons. 
They give flavor to food, increase the appetite, stimulate 
secretion, and thus aid the digestive functions. They com- 
prise two classes, viz., condiments and beverages. 

Source of Food. Food occurs in the mineral, plant and 
animal kingdoms. It occurs in all physical forms of matter 

— gases, liquids and solids. Gases are mentioned because 
oxygen is a true food and metabolized to a certain degree, 
being always present in the blood and tissues in loose chem- 
ical combination. 

- Composition of the Body. The human body contains many 
chemical elements in varying amounts. 

Nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen are the four pres- 
ent in largest proportion; iron, phosphorus, calcium, mag- 
nesium, potassium, sodium, sulphur, chlorin, iodin, also have 
important offices to perform. 

Composition of Food. Foods must contain the same ele- 
ments found in the body; thus it is that they are able to 
build and maintain the body structure. But no " one food '* 
contains all these elements in proper proportions for all per- 
sons; therefore, it is by combinations of the various food 
stuffs that we produce a suitable diet. These elements must 
further be supplied in forms which the body can use. It 
cannot utilize carbon in the form of coal, for example, but 
must have it combined in special ways with hydrogen and 
oxygen. These combinations of elements or "Food Com- 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 5 

pounds" found in nature (sometimes called "alimentary" 
or "food principles" and "food stuflfs"), are usually classi- 
fied as proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter (or salts) 
and water. 

Food, as it is taken into the body still differs in composi- 
tion from the material utilized by the tissues in growth, 
repair of waste, and production of energy in the form of work 
or heat. It must be finally prepared for the use of the body 
by the processes involved in Digestion. 

CLASSIPICATION OF FOOD 

Foods may be classified in various ways : 

a. According to Source, as animal, vegetable, and mineral 
(including oxygen for combustion). 

b. According to Chemical Composition, as organic and in- 
organic, the organic foods being further subdivided into ni- 
trogenous and non-nitrogenous substances. 

e. According to Function, as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. / ' 

Classification according to Chemical Composition 

(Nitrogenous — Proteins v^ / p . . , '^ 

rCarbohvdrates J "^^™(_ 
Non-nitrogenous 



Inorganic 



Carbohydrates 
Mineral Matter 



Water ^ 



Classification according to Function 

Proteins 
Tissue-formers or Body-builders 



Energy or Work and Heat Producers, 



Mineral Matter 
Water 

Carbohydrates 

Fats 

Proteins 



6 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Eegulators of Body Processes {^1^^^ ^**" 

Important Sources of Proteins: 

Milk^ eggs, meat^ fish^ cheese^ beans^ peas^ lentils, some nuts 
and cereals. 

Important Sources of Fats: 

Olive oil^ butter^ cream^ bacon and other fat meat, and nuts* 

Important Sources of Carbohydrates: 

Cereals, and cereal products; sago, tapioca; starchy veg- 
etables, such as potatoes ; sugar, honey, sweet dried fruits. 

Important Sources of Mineral Matter: 

a. Available in organic form: 

Nitrogen, — supplied by protein. 

Phosphorus, — in milk and cream, eggs (especially 

the yolk), meat, whole wheat, oatmeal, dried peas 

and beans. 
Iron, — in eggs (especially the yolk), meat, whole 

wheat, oatmeal, dried and fresh peas and beans, 

spinach, raisins and prunes. 

b. Available in organic or inorganic form : 

Calcium, in milk, dried beans and peas, oranges, 
spinach, turnips ; other fresh fruits and vegetables, 
and whole grains. 

Magnesium, potassium, iodin, etc. — likely to be 
adequately supplied if the other ash constituents 
are provided for. The addition of sodium chloride 
(common salt) as a condiment usually supplies a 
surplus of sodium and chlorin. 

Special Functions of each Food Principle: 

Proteins — Supply energy, nitrogen, sulphur, and some- 
times phosphorus. 

Pats — Supply energy in the most concentrated form. 

Carbohydrates — • Supply energy in the form most econom- 
ical to the body. 

Mineral Matter — Supplies building material, except nitro- 
gen and sulphur, and helps to regulate body processes. 



CONDITIONS FOB PERFECT NUTRITION 

Water — Sttpplies building material (forming 60 per cent, 
of the body), and helps to regulate body procesges. 

CONDITIONS F0& PERFECT mrTRITIOH 

For the proper support of the human Byatem, a combina- 
tion of nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous foods is essential, 
with water to dissolve them and oxygen to burn them. Al- 
though air is not classified as a food it is essential to effect 
the chemical changes needful for assimilation. " About two 
thousand cubic feet of air need to pass through the lungs of 
an adult daily in order to furnish oxygen in sulficient quan- 
tity. If there is lack in this most important food-stuflf (and 
nothing else can take its place), starvation as truly results 
as if other food were withheld, for the changes required for 
nutrition cannot take place, and furthermore incomplete de- 
composition occurs, which may result in more or less poison- 
ous products. 

"Fresh air — air with its quota of oxygen — is, then, a 
prime requirement in nutrition." — Ellen H. Richards. 

A Perfect Food, 1. " A perfect food must contain all tho 
nutritive elements of the body : Proteins, carbohydrates, fats, 
minerals, and water. 

2. It must contain these in their proper proportions. 

3. It must contain in a moderate compass the total amount 
required daily. 

4. The nutritive elements must be capable of easy absorp- 
tion, and yet leave a certain hulk of unabsorbed matter to 
act as intestinal ballast. It must be obtainable at a mod- 
erate coat." — Hutchinson. 

A Mixed Diet therefore is necessary, as no "one food" 
fulfills all the requirements of a "perfect food." A mixed 
diet must he taken whereby one food may be used to sup- 
plement what is lacking in another. The foods best for 
health are those best fitted to the needs of the individual. 
The cheapest food is that which furnishes the largest amount 
of nutriment at the least cost. The best food 18 that which 
I both healthful and cheapest. 




8 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



NITBOGENOVS FOODS 

Nitrogenous substances are those which contain nitrogen, 
an element which is essential to the life of every cell. 

Classification. In older classifications, the term Protein 
is used to include all food substances containing nitrogen, 
this class being further subdivided into (1) Proteids, those 
proteins which can alone maintain the nitrogen equilibrium 
of the body; (2) Albuminoids or Gelatinoids, those which 
contain nitrogen in a form which can replace other proteins 
only to a limited extent; (3) Extractives, containing nitro- 
gen in a form unable to make good the body loss of nitrogen. 
Those extractives are properly food accessories. 

Proteins are now defined as compounds of carbon, hydrogen, 
oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and sometimes phosphoms, which 
contain nitrogen in a form which the body can use. They are 
variously classified, but a simple division is one into (1) 
Simple Proteins, (2) Compound Proteins, and (3) Albumi- 
noids, Examples of simple proteins are albumins, globulins, 
and certain alcohol-soluble proteins found in cereals, as the 
gliadin of wheat : of compound proteins, the nucleo-protein of 
organs consisting chiefly of cells, as pancreas or sweetbread, 
and the ha?moglobin of the blood: of albuminoids, the fa- 
miliar product, gelatin, formed from the collagen of connec- 
tive tissue : 



PxoteiBt -* 



Simple 



Albnamt. 6. g. 



White of 

Casein of mUk. 

MTorin of imisdt. 

Fibrin of blood. 

Gluten of wheat. 

Leffomin of Iff ■<! 

GlobuUnt. e. s In ^nine. 

rOliadin of whaat 
^Aleohol-eolnble proteins e. g. . .•< 

LZein of midse. 

pKncleo-proteia, e. g. in lirer end iweetbieed. 

Oomponnd "S 

LH»m»rlobis of blood. 

^ AAninisoid Colleen of oonnectire tiesae. 






NITROGENOUS FOODS 9 

Source. The proteins of the diet are derived both from the 
animal and vegetahle kingdoms. The principal animal pro- 
teins are obtained from meats, fish, eggs, and milk. Meat 
and fish proteins are derived principally from the muBcIes; 
egg proteins from both the white and yolk; milk proteins 
chiefly from the casein, which forms the main constituent of 
cheese and curds. Animal foods are much richer in protein 
than plant foods. The only substancea of vegetable origin 
which can compare with animal nutrients in this respect are 
the legumes {peas, beans, lentils, peanuts, etc.), and certain 
nuts, such as almonds, pine nuts, cocoa beans (the source of 
cocoa and chocolate). The entire grain of some cereals pos- 
sesses a high percentage of protein; this is particularly true 
of so-called hurd wheat, and in lesser degree of oats, Indian 
corn, rye, and barley. As a rule, flour and meal are about 
half as rich in protein as the dried grains from which they 
are prepared, though oatmeal and Indian meal lose but lit- 
tle til rough milling. 

Animal foods are usually digested with ease, and require 
les3 cooking and less mastication to insure good utilization; 
in the form of meat, they are liked because of their high 
flavor and stimulating properties. In vegetable foods, on 
account of the presence of cellulose, some of the protein is 
likely to escape digestion and absorption. For the invalid 
or convalescent, certain animal foods are preferred as a 
source of protein, as being more concentrated, and easier of 
digestion. Of ordinary vegetable food rich in protein, bread, 
"iher stale and dry, or thoroughly toasted. Is perhaps the 
lost suitable for invalids. Starchy roots and tubers (as 
potatoes), and green vegetables and fruits, though valuable 
for other dietetic reasons, are very poor in protein. 

Animal Proteins. The albumins in the ordinary diet are 
derived chiefly from animal foods. The white of egg is a 
very pure form of this compound, and eggs constitute one 
of the best sources of nitrogen in a compact and assimilable 
form, especially convenient as they are readily taken raw. 

Casein, tlie chief protein of milk, represents the main 



I 



10 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



source of this food element for infants and the sick, 
quart of milk contains as much protein as six ounces of lean 
beeksteak, and is more valuable because of its rich supply 
of mineral matter, to say nothing of the fat and carbohydrate 
present. 

Myosin is the typical protein in muscle tissue. After death 
it changes to a form called syntonin. 

Fibrin and Serum Albumin, found in blood, occur to a 
slight extent along with myosin in meat. 

The only albuminoid which requires consideration here ia 
collagen, a protein found in all connective tissues, including 
the modified forms, such as cartilage and bone. This sub- 
stance is changed by boiling to gelatin. This is further al- 
tered by the gastric juice to gelatoses and gelatin-peptones, 
and finally absorbed, but it lacks certain elements found in 
albumins and other proteins, and consequently cannot be re- 
lied upon exclusively as a source of nitrogen for the body. 
It can replace about two-thirds of the ordinary protein re- 
quirement. 

Vegetable Proteins. These are chiefly globulins. The 
main representatives of the albumins in vegetable food are 
gluten of wheat and legumin of the legumes, A number of 
alcohol -soluble proteins occur, such as gliadin in wheat and 
zein in Indian corn. Vegetables contain a large number of 
nitrogenous substances which are not proteins. Thus while 
mushrooms contain much nitrogen, little of the latter is in a 
form which can be absorbed. 

Function of Proteins. Proteins are both body-builders and 
energy-producers, but are little utilized as fuel when carbo- 
hydrates and fats are well represented in the diet. As a fuel, 
they tend to burn up rapidly, and hence are not economical, 
and since in health only a small proportion of nitrogen is 
used from day to day, the part not needed being promptly 
excreted, it is not advantageous to have the diet largely com- 
posed of this food principle. During the periods of rapid 
growth, in the prenatal, infantile and adolescent states, when 
the body is forming new tissue at an unusual rate, there must 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 



11 



be a liberal nitrogen supply. This is also true in conva- 
lescence from wasting disease, and sometimes after exceesive 
physical exertion, wlien the muscle tissue is actually increas- 
ing. In health, when fats and carbohydrates are liberally 
provided, bo that the protein is not required as fuel, a com- 
paratively small amount is needed for repair of tissue. This 
is especially true in old age. 

Nitrogenous Extractives. Substances found in muscle 
juice, consisting chiefly of creatin, creatinin, and purina 
{uric acid and related substances), are valuable only as stim- 
ulants. They give sapidity to meats and hence are appetiz- 
ing; possess the power of stimulating the flow of gastric juice, 
and by their influence on the nervous system, gently in- 

t crease the activity of the heart. For this reason, beef tea, 
beef extracts, etc., are of value to the sick, 
Cooking of Froieiii. Of all the proteins, " Albumin," of 
which there are many varieties, is the most important and 
Seeds most care in the cooking to malce it easily digested. 
The majority of albumins are soluble in cold water and 
Iregetabie acids; they are coagulated by beat, mineral acids 
•nd alcohol. The cooking of albumin should be governed by 
tiiese facts. 
"As the white of the egg is nearly pure albumin it will 
serve as an excellent illustration for demonstrating the effect 
of heat on the principal constituent of albuminous foods." 
Effect of Temperature or Test for CooJcing Albumin 
Into a test tube put some white of egg, place in a sauce pan 
of cold water, heat gradually, and observe all changes. 

1. Raw white of egg is a sticky, clear, pale straw-colored 
liquid, and readily digested. 

2. When water reaches the temperature 134° F. white 
streaks will be seen in a semi-solid white substance which ia 
found to be readily digested. 

3. UTien water reaches the temperature 160° P. the egg 
will be firm, soft, and jelly-like, and is readily digested, 

, AVhen water reaches 213° F. the egg will be tough white 
Jly and less readily digested. 



4 
4 




12 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. When egg is heated to 300** P. or higher (for example 
put the test tube directly over flame), the egg will almost 
immediately become hard and tenacious. 

These albumin- tests demonstrate that albuminous foods 
are most tender and readily digested when cooked at a low 
temperature but when coagulated at too high a temperature 
are tough and indigestible. . ; 

Eeheated albuminous foods are less digestible than freshly 
cooked because the albumin is much hardened by the second 
cooking. The principal foods requiring care in preparation 
because of the albumin are eggs, meat, and fish. These will 
be considered further under their separate headings. 

WOW-NITROOEWOTrS FOODS 

CARBOHYDRATES (SITOAR AND STARCH): FATS 

Strictly speaking, any food substance not protein, even 
water and mineral water, is non-nitrogenous; but in the re- 
stricted sense of food as a source of energy, it is applied to 
two classes of organic compounds which contain no nitrogen, 
viz., carbohydrates and fats. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

Definition. Carbohydrates are food substances which con- 
tain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The oxygen and hydro- 
gen are usually present in proportion to form the water mole- 
cule (HjO). These substances have therefore been termed 
carbohydrates. A carbohydrate may be defined as a simple 
sugar, or a substance which yields simple sugar after hy- 
drolysis. 

Source. Carbohydrates come from the vegetable kingdom 
almost entirely. There are a few exceptions, such as glycogen 
and milk sugar. They abound throughout the plant world, 
but especially in grains, roots, tubers, or wherever the plant 
stores its reserves. 

Function. Carbohydrates are burned up in the body to 
produce energy in the form of work or heat. All that is 
taken in excess of immediate need is stored, first as gl;>oogeii 



I 
t 



\ 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 



13 



or " animal starch " in the liver and mnseles ; and when the 
capacity to store glycogen is exliausted, in the form of fat. 
The fuel value of fat is two and one-fourth times that of 
sugars and starches, bo that this is a very convenient form 
of storage of surplus carbohydrate. 

The Most Important Energy Producing Foods are cereals, 
potatoes, tapioca, sago, fats, sugar and honey. 

Classification. Carbohydrates include the monosaccharides, 
as typified in grape sugar; the disaccharides, as typified in 
cane sugar, and polysaccharides, including starch, dextrin, 
guniH, cellulose and g 



t 



Qrape I 



MaplH Sugar J 

Milk augur (Lactom) 

Malt Sugar (MaUot*) 



PolTiaoch 



Sugar 



Definition. Sugars are carbohydrates which are soluble, 
have a more or less sweet taste and many minor qualities 
which distinguish them from the starches. The disaccharides 
yield monosaccharides under the influence of enzymes or on 
boiling with dilute acids. When heated to a high tempera- 
ture sugars form caramel. In dietetics we are especially 
concerned with grape sugar (dextrose), milk sugar (lactose) 
and cane sugar (sucrose). 



Description. Dextrose occurs as a syrup, rarely in crystal- 
line form. It is much less sweet than cane sugar. Other 
sugars have to be changed to this form before the body can 

P tbem. 




14 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Sources. It is found throughout the vegetable kingdom, 
and especially in fruits. A dried fig contains 65 per cent. 
of grape sugar. In nature it is formed from starch and so 
it may be produced in art by treating starch with acids. It 
is prepared on a large scale from cornstarch. 

Uses as Food. Dextrose or grape sugar is a fuel food in 
one of its most readily absorbed forms. It does not require 
digestion because this is the form to which carbohydrates of 
all kinds must be changed before they can be of use to the 
body. Taken in large quantities it is liable to ferment, or 
flood the system with sugar too rapidly, but as naturally 
present in sweet fruits, or in its artificial form in small 
quantities along with other food-stuffs, it is a very economical 
source of energy. 

LACTOSE 

Milk Sugar or Lactose. This sugar is found almost ex- 
clusively in milk, from which it is commercially prepared. It 
has little sweetness and does not readily ferment. Until re- 
cently it has entered but little into practical dietetics, save 
in case of infants or others subsisting wholly or partly on 
milk, but its ease of assimilation and its mild flavor, make 
it frequently a valuable source of energy in disease. 

CANE SUOAB 

Pure cane sugar is chemically the same as beet-sugar, f 
Maple sugar would not be different from common sugar, if 
it were suflSciently purifled to remove the flavoring matter. 

Description. Cane sugar occurs naturally in crystals, some 
of which are extremely hard (rock candy) ; and in syrups, one 
of which is molasses. 

Sources, etc. Cane sugar is found in the sap or juices of 
a variety of plants, including sugar cane, the beet, the sugar 
maple, etc. Whether obtained by collecting sap or crushing, 
etc., it is always at first a syrup and all solid sugar is obtained 
from these juices by various methods. 

Uses as Food. Cane sugar enters into the dietary very 
largely, pure for table use, and in confectionery, or in com- 



^^nnations with other foods in cookery. It is a very valuable 
^^■nirce of energy, but must be used with discretion, because 
^^PH too large amounts or in too concentrated form it is irri- 
^^fcting to the stomach and liable to ferment, and also be- 
cause being quickly absorbed, it satisfies the appetite before' 
the need for food has been entirely met, or blunts it so that 
other foods become distasteful. A pound of sugar and a 
pound of pure cornstarch are nearly equal in energy value. 
For children, it is much better to give sugar in the form of 
sweet fruits, because they are then supplied with valuable 
mineral salts which are entirely lacking in pure sugar. 

Subsiiluie for Sugars. Since sugar is used not only as a 
fuel food but as a condiment, attempts have been made to ' 
secure a substitute for use in cases where carbohydrate is 
limited or denied. The best known of these is "saccharin" 
or " swectina," a crj'stalline coal-tar product. It is many 
tim.es sweeter than sugar, but it has no food value. 

Use of Sugar in Practical Dietetics. Sugar taken in small 
quantities will replace starch weight for weight, and be more 
easily and quickly absorbed. The amount of sugar which 
can be taken in place of other fuel food depends on the 
amount of exercise and the peculiarities of the individual. 
An excess of sweets may cause nausea and always blunts the 
appetite, thus cutting down the consumption of other foods. 
If a very large amount be taken, sugar will appear in the 
urine. The maximum advisable daily allowance of sugar is 
considered to be about four ounces. 

Sugar should be avoided in gastric disorders, such dis- 
turbances of nutrition aa gout, rheumatism, and especially 
diabetes. Being a highly concentrated food, it should be 
avoided in obesity. 

Uses of Sugar in Cookery. Glucose is not so sweet as cane 
sugar, so that when used for sweetening other foods a larger 
amount must be taken. In cooking fruits, sugar should be 
added when the process is nearly complete, aa it tends to 
harden the fruit tissues. By boiling for a long time or in 
. the presence of acids (whether naturally in the fruit or added 



NON-NITROGENOVS FOODS 



16 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to it) cane sugar is changed to invert sugar, which is a 
mixture of equal parts of dextrose and levulose. While dex- 
trose is not so sweet as cane sugar, levulose is very much 
sweeter, so that the resulting product has a peculiar, pene- 
trating sweetness that is not so well liked as the cane sugar 
flavor. This is another reason for reserving the sugar till 
the end of the cooking process. 

Test for Sugar. A simple test for sugar, irrespective of 
whether it is glucose or cane sugar, consists in adding a little 
33 per cent, solution of caustic soda to the suspected solution, 
and boiling. If sugar is present the solution turns brown. 

The chief test for glucose or grape sugar alone is Fehling's. 
A test solution should be on hand, and may be obtained at any 
apothecaries. It should be obtained fresh. The test is based 
on the fact that glucose " reduces " salts of copper, i. e., by 
depriving them of some of their oxygen, an insoluble oxide 
of copper is precipitated. The test solution contains sulphate 
of copper, caustic potash and tartrate of sodium and potas- 
sium. To make the test, add to a portion of the test solution 
a few drops of the suspected solution in a test tube and boil. 
If a red substance precipitates, glucose is present. The sole 
use of this test for the nurse will probably be in connection 
with diabetes, when the nurse makes the test at the request of 
the medical attendant. In all other tests for sugar, the first 
test mentioned above will suffice, and would also suffice for dia- 
betic urine were it not for the fact that a shamming patient 
could deceive the nurse by placing common sugar in her urine. 

Starch and Other Polysaccharides 

Starchy foods form a large part of the ordinary diet of 
man ; they are the chief source of the cai^bohydrates. Starch, 
unlike sugar, is insoluble but may be made to pass into a 
soluble form by dry-heating at high temperature, or by cer- 
tain digestive ferments. The first bodies formed are known 
as dextrins, but ultimately a sugar (maltose) is produced. 
The alimentary starches may be said to comprise starch 



■ NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 17 

proper; dextrins or soluble starches; aod glycogen or animal 
starch, which ia stored up in the liver. 

Source. Starch occurs widely in the vegetable kingdom, 
along with grape sugar. It is found in largest amounts in 
grains, seeds, roots and tubers. It is prepared for the market 
chiefly by mechanical means, Iwing washed out of the finely 
cut vegetable substances. Its main commercial source is 
probably wheat, but it is also made largely from potatoes, rice, 
arrow-rootj etc. 

Description. In its pure state, i. e., when isolated from 
proteins, cellulose, gum, etc., starch is a shining white pow- 
der having a distinctive quality to the touch. Under the 
microscope it is found to consist of granules, which are in- 
soluble in cold water. When heated to a high temperature, 
these granules undergo a certain amount of transforma- 
tion into soluble starch and dextrin. Boiling the starch 
in water has the same results. The action of the group 
of ferments known as diastases ia to transform starch suc- 
cessively into soluble starch, dextrin, and finally maltcae 
(malt sugar). 

Uses as Food. Starch is seldom used pure in dietaries, but 
■with other food principles in the form of various flours and 
bread made from them, or as breakfast cereals, legumes, po- 
tatoes, etc. The breads baked from wheat flour are among 
the most widely distributed foods. 

Other Polysaccharides. Aside from starch and sugar the 
polysaccharides contribute but little to dietetic uses. Cellu- 
lose, the framework of plants, constitutes the largest propor- 
tion of their hulk. It is the principal part of the so-called 
" indigestible residue " of digestion ; and hence the amount ■ 
of the residue varies greatly with the nature of the food 
eaten. Without nutritive value, it is still believed to be of 
eervice as a stimulant to intestinal peristalsis, by acting as 
a gentle mechanical irritant; by helping to retain moisture 
and keep the feces soft; and by giving such bulk that the 
inteatinal muscles can act to good advantage. When attacked 

r bacteria, it forms acids which are valuable checks to in- 



^^fejr bacteria, it 



18 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

testinal putrefaction. TTnlesa it iB desirable for some special 
reason to relieve the digestive tract of all work, a certain 
amount of celinlose should be included in the diet. In con- 
stipation the addition of some non-irritating form, as agar- 
agar has proved a euecesaful therapeutic measure. 

Gums, taken incidentally into the body, represent little or 
no nutritive value, and like cellulose act as " ballast." 

Principles of Cooking Starch. The principlea involved in 
the cooking of starch are of two types — chemical and me- 
chanical. 

Chemical Principles. Since raw starch is digestible only 
to a slight degree, it ia essential to perfect digestion that 
starchy foods be cooked. 

In the presence of moisture, starch ia made soluble at the 
temperature of boiling water, i. e., 212° F, By long boiling, 
this soluble starch can be converted into dextrin, a still more 
easily digested form than soluble starch. This principle is 
applied in the making of gruels, especially for invalids and 
infants. 

By dry heat, at a temperature considerably above 213° F. 
(300° F.-100° F.) starch can be converted quite readily to 
dextrin. This principle ia applied in making toast. Some 
of the starch is further changed to caramel, giving a char- 
acteristic flavor to the crust of bread, toast, etc. 

Mechanical Principles. When foods composed almost en- 
tirely of pure starch, such as flour, cornstarch, etc., are to 
be cooked with a liquid, care must be taken to prevent the 
formation of lumps, for these are not only unsightly, but con- 
sist of an outer layer of soluble starch surrounding a center 
ef unchanged material and preventing its being made i 
gestible. 

There are three methods of avoiding lumps : — 

1. By mixing the starch gradually with a small portion 
of cold water, so that a smooth fluid maas ia 
formed, before adding the boiling liquid. Thig 
method is useful in making gruels, et 



-- ■_ 



e dij 

trtioa I 
IS is 
Thia ) 



NON-NITBOQENOUS FOODS 



19 



S. By mixing with fat before adding liquid. The melt- 
ing fat separates the starch granules. At least as 
much fat as starch must be used. The liquid is 
preferably added cold, and all at once. If added 
hot, it must be stirred in very gradually. This 
method is employed in making gravies, sauces, etc. 

3. By mixing with sugar. The melting sugar serves 
to separate the starch grains. This is practicable 
only when the sugar is greater in amount than the 
starch, and the liquid must be added gradually. 
This method is applied in the case of desserts, such 
as cornstarch pudding. 

When foods consisting of a mixture of starch and cellulose, 
as cereal breakfast foods, are to be cooked, it is necessary to 
soften and break up the cellulose to enable the digestive juices 
to reach the starch. This necessitates long cooking at a 
temperature near the boiling point. The longer such a cereal 
product is cooked, the easier of digestion it becomes. Hence 
it is an escellent rule to cook such foods for infants and others 
of feeble digestive powers, twice as long as is commonly recom- 
mended. 

Reheating of starchy foods, therefore, tends to increase 
their digestibility. Zwieback (or twice-baked bread) is more 
digestible, for example, than fresh bread. 

Test for Starch. Starch is colored blue by iodin. Hence 
it is easy to detect its presence in any food. To make the 
test, a small portion of the material should be placed in a 
test tube, boiled with a little water, cooled, and two or three 
drops of dilute tincture of iodin added. If starch is present, 
the blue color will immediately appear. Dextrin gives a port- 
wine color with iodin, so that if any of this substance be 
present, the color is modiiied, becoming more or less purplish, 
Vddr purple-red. 

FATS AND OILS 

I Definition. Fats are food-stuffs having the same ultimate 
oical composition as carbohydrates; i. e., consisting of 




20 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, but the latter element is pres- 
ent in less proportion than in carbohydrates. Fats were 
formerly spoken of as hydrocarbons, but this term is now 
reserved for substances which contain no oxygen at all, such 
as benzine. 

Description. True fats, whether solid or oily, are chem- 
ically compounds of fatty acids with glycerine, and differ 
among themselves according to the particular fatty acids they 
contain. These commonly comprise stearic, palmitic and 
oleic acids. The stearates or combinations of stearic acid 
with glycerine (also generally spoken of as stearins) are solid 
fats as are also palmitates or palmitins. The oleates or oleins 
on the other hand are fluid at ordinary temperatures. It 
is therefore evident that solid fats contain much more stearin 
or palmitin than olein, while fat oils consist chiefly of olein. 
Stearin is found only in fat of animal origin. Animal fats 
are therefore a mixture of all three classes, while vegetable 
fats consist of mixtures of palmitins and oleins. Suet and 
tallow owe their firmness largely to the amount of stearin 
present, while lard owes its softness to the amount of olein 
present. Butter consists largely of palmitin. The most 
prominent of the animal fats are butter, cream, lard, suet, 
tallow, butterine, oleomargarine and cod-liver oil. The veg- 
etable oils are obtained from fruits and nuts (olive, cotton- 
seed, peanut, cocoanut, cocoa bean and almond). Vegetable 
oils and the liver oil of fish are composed chiefly of olein. 
Certain dietetic substances not usually tliought of as fatty, 
contain much oil. Some of these are yolks of eggs, Indian 
corn and nearly all nuts except chestnuts. Artificial products 
like butterine are described elsewhere. They are often pre- 
ferred to butter because their melting point is lowered by the 
addition of suet or tallow (beef -drippings) so that they keep 
better in warm weather. 

Lecithin is a substance usually classed with fats and oils. 
Besides fatty acids it contains phosphorus. It is a necessary 
constituent of every living cell and is especially plentiful in 
the nervous tissues. At present it is used to a considerable 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 21 

extent in medicine in the belief that it is of value as a food- 
drug and reeonstituent. It is prepared from the yolk of egg 
and from brain substance. Feeding yolks of eggs is usually 
as advantageous and cheaper. 

Volatile Oils. These, as already stated, have little in com- 
mon with true oils. They stain paper only temporarily, 
while a fat stain is permanent. They vary much among 
themselves in composition and agree chiefly in their tendency 
to disappear by evaporation; and their odor, taste and pun- 
gency. A few of them are used in diet for flavoring. The 
oil of bergamot is obtained from orange peel, oil of lemon 
from lemon peel, etc. The act of cooking tends to volatilize 
them, so that such flavoring should be added at the last mo- 
ment. 

Sources of Fat in the Diet, The chief sources of fat in the 
diet are milk (yielding cream and butter), olive oil, meat 
fats (especially lard, bacon and salt pork, beef suet and drip- 
pings), and oily nuts. 

Cheap Forms of Fat. Butter, cream, olive oil, lard, etc., 
are all subject to adulteration with cheaper fats, but aside 
from the fraud in charging a high price there is a legitimate 
industry for making cheaper products representing these 
articles. Thus skim milk has its lost cream restored by a 
homogenized meat fat containing some butter. A substitute 
for butter is produced from animal fats and sold under special 
names, etc. The industry is yet in its infancy, although half 
a century old. The more expensive fats are prized for their 
flavor, but the cheaper fats carefully refined have also a high 
nutritive value. 

Function, Fats are burned up in the body and produce 
energy in the form of work or heat. According to Dr. W. 
Oilman Thompson, the chief uses of fats are as follows: 

1. To furnish energy for the development of heat. 

2. To supply force. 

3. To serve as covering and protection in the body. 

4. To make more plastic various structures of the body and give 
rotundity to the form. 



22 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. To spare the tissues from disintegration; for, although their 
combustion in the body results largely in the production of heat, 
they also take to some extent in tissue formation. 

6. To serve for storage of energy. 

Source of Body Fat. Twenty per cent, of the normal 
weight of man is fat. It is derived mainly from fatty foods 
and carbohydrates. Proteins are transformed into fat only to 
a very limited degree. It is most readily produced from car- 
bohydrates, or a mixture of carbohydrates and fats. 

Principles of Cooking. Fats are more digestible cold than 
hot, because hot fat tends to coat and intimately penetrate 
the food with which it is cooked or eaten, and as this coating 
is not dissolved by the digestive juices of the mouth or 
stomach, little or no digestion of carbohydrate and protein 
can take place in either of these places under such circum- 
stances. Heating fat to a high temperature also changes its 
chemical nature, often producing irritating substances which 
interfere with digestion. For such reasons fried food should 
never be given to invalids. 

Digestibility. The majority of fats are not very easily di- 
gested, consequently are not tolerated by those suffering from 
indigestion or by patients acutely ill; their use should be 
limited to finely divided forms, as in milk or yolk of egg; 
it is sometimes even necessary to reduce the fat in milk by 
skimming off the cream, or to limit the amount of yolk of 
egg, inasmuch as 30 per cent, of the yolk is fat. Other 
forms of fat valuable in the invalid's dietary are butter, cod- 
liver oil, and fat bacon cooked crisp. All fats, except limited 
quantities of butter and cream, should be forbidden in acute 
diseases of the stomach, intestines and liver, and in most of 
the chronic affections. Their uses should be limited also in 
the presence of gall stones. 

Fatty foods should be prescribed for children with rickets 
and for all who have diabetes. In the latter disease they 
partly replace the carbohydrates which cannot be used. Fat 
may be prescribed with benefit in chronic wasting disease, 
such as tuberculosis, and during convalescence from severe 



WATER 



23 



acute disease. The most agreeable and digestible forms 
should be given. At first a small portion only should be 
taken, and the quantity increased in proportion to a patient's 
■willingness to accept it. In a. general way fats and oils are 
laxative; consequently useful in case of constipation and 
equally harmful where there Is a tendency to diarrhcea. 
Comparative Value of Fat and Carbohydrates as Fuel Foods. 

I Fats and carbohydrates serve the same purpose in the body, 
in that they furnish energy. Fats are not as easily digested 
as carbohyd ratals, but weiglit for weight they furnish two and 
one-fourth times as much energy. 
Tests far Fais. Fats are readily tested with paper; if 
they are present in a given substance a permanent greaae- 
epot appears. If to a suspected substance a little solution of 
caustic soda is added a white precipitate forms, representing 
a hard soda soap. 

• WATEE 

Composition and Properties. Water is a compound of hy- 
drogen and oxygen, consisting of two parts by volume of 
oxygen to one of hydrogen. Absolutely pure water is color- 
less, odorless, and tasteless, but such water is not found in 
nature, owing to its great solvent power, which caqses it to 
L dissolve substances with which it comes in contact. Water 
■ordinarily, therefore, contains varying quantities of mineral 
land organic matter, including gases. To these substances in 
ioiution the characteristic flavor is due. Water from which 
r has been expelled by long standing in a warm place, 
r by boiling, has a " flat " taste. 
Water freezes at 33" F. On heating, the ice melts, and 
B may have ice water with a temperature of 33° F. When 
itiiis water is warmed, the air dissolved in it begins to expand, 
Land tiny bubbles appear, forming first on the sides of the 
el, and tending to rise to the surface. If the water there 
i not yet warmed, they contract and sink, but finally when 
Ihe water is warm throughout, come to the surface and es- 
|CBpe. After the air is thus expelled, if heating is continued. 



24 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

steam bubbles form in a similar manner. At 185® F., water 
bubbles below the surface, or simmers. When the bubbles 
reach the surface and break, giving off a cloud of steam^ the 
boiling point has been reached, 212** P. Except under pres- 
sure, water can then become no hotter. Fast boiling simply 
means rapid evaporations and waste of fuel. 

Source of Water as Food, A considerable source of water 
is food itself. In green vegetables and fruits it constitutes 
as high as 85 per cent.-95 per cent, of the whole substance ; in 
potatoes and other starchy vegetables it is present in as large 
amount as 75 per cent. Even in seemingly dry foods, as 
crackers, there may be as much as 5 to 10 per cent. But 
since GO per cent, of the body itself is composed of water, and 
water loss through the lungs, skin, kidneys, etc., is very con- 
stant, the supply in ordinary diet is not sufficient, and water 
must be added as a beverage. This may be in the form of 
ordinary drinking water, of tea, coffee, or other similar bev- 
erages and of medicinal waters; the latter, however, should 
be considered chiefly under the head of drugs. 

Functions of Water in the Body. Water undergoes no 
chemical change in the body, yet the consideration of it is of 
vital importance. Solution is an essential part of digestion. 
Water bathes the tissues and washes away our waste and ex- 
crementitious matter. As it does not itself undergo any 
chemical alteration it is not susceptible of liberating force, 
consequently is not an energy-producing agent, but contributes 
to chemical changes by supplying a necessary condition for 
their occurrence. 

Dr. Oilman Thompson summarizes the uses of water in the 
body as follows: 

1. It enters into the chemical combination of the tissues. 

2. It forms the chief ingredient of aU the fluids of the body and 
maintains their proper degree of dilution. 

3. By moistening various surfaces of the body, such as the mucous 
and serous membranes, it prevents friction and the imcomfoi^ble 
symptoms which might result from their drying, (^f' Jj"^ 

4. It furnishes in the blood and lymph a fluid medium by wldch 



WATER 25 

food may be taken to remote parts of the body and the waste material 
removed, thus promoting rapid tissue changes. 

6. It serves as a distributor of body heat. 

6. It regulates the body temperature by the physical processes of 
absorption and evaporation. 

Professional fasters have shown that one may live for 
weeks without food, but it may readily be demonstrated that 
a warm-blooded animal except in a state of hibernation or 
trance can subsist but a few days without water. 

Food Uses of Water. Water taken in considerable quan- 
tities with meals favors upward .metabolism and increases the 
utilization of food. Thirst at meals does not always mean 
a true body demand for water, as it may be due to condiments, 
or to improper mastication of food. Under ordinary circum- 
stances, about three or four pints daily are necessary to make 
up loss of water that is constantly being eliminated through 
the skin, kidneys, lungs and intestines. The quantity ex- 
creted daily varies greatly under special conditions. The de- 
mand for water is much increased by hot weather, and vio- 
lent exercise, and diminished in the bedridden and sedentary. 
Babies, delirious patients, etc., should be fed water, as care- 
fully as other food. ' 

Classification of Varieties of Drinking Waters, The clas- 
sification of water as food is based chiefly on its purity and 
palatability. 

Hard and Soft Water. Water containing calcium (lime) 
or magnesium salts is known as hard water ; and if it contains 
these salts in excess it is unsuited not only for drinking 
but for cooking and bathing, unless purified or softened. As 
only the carbonates can be expelled from the water, the purifi- 
cation is incomplete; chlorides and sulphates remain behind. 
For washing purposes the carbonate of lime may be precipi- 
tated by treating with lye, whereupon it rises to the surface 
and can be skimmed off. By adding soda to cooking water, 
a similar softening is obtained desirable in cooking vegetables, 
as they are toughened by the lime and sodium chloride. 
Finally, for drinking purposes hard water may be subjected 



26 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to prolonged boiling and straining; by this means the car- 
bonic acid is driven off and the lime is set free. It must be 
remembered that a water not suited for domestic uses may 
still be fit for drinking if not taken in great excess, because 
lime and magiiesium are natural ingredients of the body. 

In soft water only a small amount of salts are found and 
as a rule it is more desirable to use for cooking purposes, 
especially in the cooking of legumes or when the object is 
to extract the nourishment or flavor of food, as in making 
tea or soup, etc. 

Rain water is naturally pure but devoid of any mineral 
content, which is sometimes a disadvantage. It is not very 
palatable. It should be remembered that the first part of a 
rain fall carries down with it dust and impurities from the 
air, but the latter part of a shower furnishes as pure water 
as can be found from any source. 

Spring Water, well water, etc., vary greatly in the amount 
of mineral matter, organic matter, gases, etc., present. In 
many cases the mineral content or gas content is such as to 
confer a medicinal value. In other cases the mineral matter 
is a menace to health. In most ground-water there is organic 
matter which besides being undesirable in itself invites the 
presence of germs, which often threaten the health and safety 
of whole communities. Great care should be taken as to the 
location of a well ; deep spring water and water from artesian 
wells is usually pure. City water is usually filtered through 
sand beds and otherwise purified ; the law requires such waters 
to be frequently analyzed as to purity. 

As water may dissolve the lead from pipes through which 
it flows, it should be allowed to run several minutes before 
using if it has not been recently run off (as after standing 
over night) to avoid the risk of lead poisoning. 

Filtered AYator is water freed from organic matter of all 
kinds. It should be pure and palatable. But filtered water 
as a rule cannot be depended upon for purity owing to the 
fact that the domestic filters require constant cleansing and 



WATEE 



37 



'e to coodeose the impure organic matter which putreiiea 
upon the filter and renders the water passed through them 
fouler in place of purer. Small filters screwed on fau- 
cets are of no value whatever. There are charcoal and 
porcelain filters on the market that are very good, but are 
not effective unless often and thoroughly cleansed. When 
there is the least doubt as to the purity of water it is best to 
boil it. 

Boiled Water. Water simply sterilized by boiling and 
kept in bottles in a cool place is extensively used when there 
is suspicion as to its purity. It is rather unpalatable. Boil- 
ing renders harmless all the organic impurities and precipi- 
tates salts of lime. It must always be borne in mind that 
typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery and other pestilences are 
largely water-borne diseases, and whenever there is any sus- 
picion that water is contaminated, the most available method 
for purification is boiling. Before filling the bottles, have 
them thoroughly cleansed and rinse with boiling hot water, 
as a few drops o£ unboiled water would be sufficient to con- 
taminate the whole. To prevent breaking, place bottles in, 
pan of warm water before pouring in the boiling water. 

Distilled Water, This is water in its purest state. It is 
eaid by many authorities to be unsuited for a beverage be- 

I cause of total absence of mineral matter and gases, on ac- 
count of which mineral matter -is greedily abstracted from 
■the walls of the stomach, thereby causing congestion and irri- 
tation. It is generally used for medicinal and chemical pur- 
poses. If employed as a beverage it should be aerated to 
^prove the flavor. 
Carbonated Waters. Ordinary water may be artificially 
(diarged with carbon dioxid, as soda water, etc. Among the 
tnost common carbonated waters (naturally charged) are 
Vichy, Apollinaris and Seltzer (effervescing waters) and Po- 
land water (uneffervescing). These are valuable in case of 
fever and to tempt people to drink more water; also in re- 
lieving nausea and vomiting. They are used to advantage 
l_with acid drinks and to dilute alcoholic liquors. Carbonated 




28 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

water of uiiy kind should not be taken in excess, as such waters 
nn» H|)t. to produce indigestion, by retarding the action, of the 
pistrii' juico. 

AIkaliiu> Mineral Waters are carbonated (naturally 
I'lmr^od) and dilTor from ordinary water in. the greater 
au\oui\t of pisiHUis (carbon dioxid and sulphuretted hydro- 
s^mO and solid mat tor (sodium chloride, potassium, magne- 
sium, iron, sulphur, oU\s etc.), which they contain. Some 
\uinoral waters liavc no medicinal value and are simply used 
tor ^puMuhiniT thirst; others have purgative, laxative or diu- 
i\*iu- etTovi. Tlie following are a few examples of the latter 
^ lass Snlphur Sprinc. Saratoga, Vichy, Hunyadi, London- 
\'A'.t\ , and l.ithia Waiers. 

ri'v* lv!U".'t devixed from iho water cures so often pre- 
ss* Iwi -.s v.v^: v.sv.allv troni ihe water itself but from the 
s '■.;:'•:;'. •.•.\':f.v.\'v,: :r.'v'. ^v.iar.titv ot w:uer taken. Much bene- 
• . ./" /\- \.\'. >\ '.V..vn\'.v.ir :V.e satv.e treatment at home. 

,"'■•:•'■ ^V :.':—. I.uke-warm or tepid 

^^ • , ^. ' .' : V ' *' \\'v.v -. •.:•. :'..iory >/.:::\l Iv most suited 

■v ■; 'i ••< \^ .i :\",: i^.:: :\y"^":i": :o niCHSt people. 

" . , , N .•.\.- • — '.. .- -: •< ::'::r ::.\'r:, v^^r::: •i*:2' to 100^ 

^- ,«■■. ,x.'. , ,..» .. ^^ ^T. _ '.ik I O ^ 

. % • • • • ■ ■ ^ 

• V • : .' ' . ■..•.■.," v. .,".-^; .:v.i:i::::t> has 
• . V .• ^.s-> /v. \ ■":!:::, h chrvnic 

■ > '^ ■ "^ ■■-■*'. ..' ^■.•■.s!" ," A ".i?:STion I re- 
' ■• . - V .....:..,.. -^ — —^ :uivkly ab- 

■' -uls i.T ivs- 
■• > "v:>: v'r^ve 



MINERAL MATTER 29 

blood temperature, but the arrest is only temporary. A small 
quantity of crushed ice is known to relieve nausea. 

MINERAL MATTER 

Function. The mineral matter in the body serves the 
most varied ends. It gives solidity to the bones and teeth; 
its presence in body fluids, such as blood and lymph, im- 
parts to them a certain degree of concentration which is abso- 
lutely necessary to the vital processes. Again, minute quan- 
tities of mineral matter are invariably present in living cells 
and are indispensable to their existence. The kind of. min- 
eral matter in a given tissue or organ varies according to its 
function. The bones and teeth owe their stability to salts 
of calcium (lime) and magnesium, especially the phosphates. 
The salts which are necessary for the regulation of the body 
fluids comprise potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium, 
especially in the form of chlorides. The substances essential 
to the active cells as part of their normal structure comprise 
phosphorus, iron, and sulphur, in the form of organic com- 
pounds, along with other salts in small quantities. Phos- 
phorus is found in the nuclei of all cells and is essential for 
growth. The red corpuscles are rich in iron, and the thyroid 
gland cells contain considerable iodin. Nearly all cells have 
traces of sulphur, mainly in the form of protein. 

Amount and Kind of Mineral Matter in the Organism. 
The mineral matter in the body amounts to about 5 or 6 
per cent, by weight, occurring chiefly in the bones. The ele- 
ments needed in the body can all be found in food. 

The chemical elements found in the body comprise hydro- 
gen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus, sulphur, silicon, 
fluorin, chlorin, iodin, all of the non-metal type ; while of the 
metals are present sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, 
iron. Traces of manganese, aluminium, possibly also arsenic, 
are sometimes found. Any substance which exists in the soil 
may find its way into the body. 



30 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

There is more calcium (lime) in the body than any other 
of the metals, while phosphorus exists to a greater extent 
tlian any other non-metallic felement, exclusive of those which 
go to form living matter. These elements predominate thus 
because the bones contain so large an amount of phosphate 
of lime. Lime is also present to a considerable extent as car- 
bonate. Magnesium phosphate comes next in amount. With 
the exception of these three bone compounds, mineral matter 
is present in relatively small quantities. 

The sodium and chlorin occur chiefly in the form of sodium 
chlorid, which is present in all the fluids and solids. The 
chlorin of hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice comes from 
the sodium chlorid. Some sodium is also present as car- 
bonate and phosphate, and these two are found in sufBcient 
amount to give the blood and numerous fluids and secretions 
an alkaline reaction. Potassium occurs mainly in the form 
of potassium phosphate. Muscle-tissue is rich in this salt. 

The sulphur and phosphorus which enter the body in the 
form of protein in animal food are oxidized to sulphuric 
and phosphoric acids and these at once combine with bases 
to form sulphates and phosphates of lime, sodium, etc. 
Sulphates occur to a slight extent only, while as already stated 
phosphates are the most important constituents numerically. 

Source of Mineral Matter in the Food. The mineral mat- 
ter received into the body comes either from the solid food 
or dietetic fluids. With the exception of sodium chlorid 
(common salt) it is not usually added to the diet. Such ad- 
ditions, however, are often prescribed as medicine in states 
of ill health. Thus phosphates and hypophosphites of lime, 
sodium and potassium are used largely in rickets and scrofula. 
Iron is given for impoverished blood. It is better to give 
them in the form of food as far as possible, and care should 
be taken to see that the food is rich in the mineral elements 
needed even if they are at the same time being given in in- 
organic form, for the body can use food salts in many in- 
stances to much greater advantage. 

Animal food in general contains the same mineral con- 



MINERAL MATTER 31 

stituentB that are found in corresponding human tissues. 

Cow's milk is rich in calcium and phoaphorua in organic 
forms, and contains small amounts of sodium, potassium, 
magnesium, iron and chlorin. 

Eggs contain iron and phosphorus in their most assimilable 
forms, especially in the yolks. 

Meats are lacking in calcium, and while red meats are 
comparatively rich in iron, it Is not in as available form as 
in eggs. 

Since the animals used by us as food obtain their mineral 
matter from plants, the richest and most varied supply is com- 
monly found in the vegetable kingdom. Calcium is abundant, 
especially in such vegetables as beans and peas, fresh or dried, 
in other green vegetables, in fruits and the outer parts of 
grains. There is little in polished rice or fine flour. 

Vegetable foods are rich in potassium, which usually oc- 
curs in the form of potassium phosphates. Spinach is richer 
in iron than almost any other plant food ; whole wheat, oat- 
meal, peas and beans, raisins and prunes are also valuable 
sources of orgnnie iron. 

Vegetable Acids and their Salts. Some authorities con- 
sider these substances under the head of mineral matter, 
although they have an organic origin and do not pre-exist 
in the soil. They comprise the acids of juicy fruits such as 
the citric acid of the citrus group, the malic acid of apples, 
pears, etc., and the tartaric acid of grapes. They exist partly 
in a state of combination with sodium and potassium. From 
a dietetic standpoint they may be placed in the same category 
as the carbonic acid gas and alkaline carbonates of the diet, 
because in the body they quickly become changed to car- 
bonates, and assist in the maintenance of the proper reaction 
of the blood. Various diseases are believed to be due to an 
excess of acid in the diet, or what is the same thing, to a 
diminution of alkali. There is no doubt that substances con- 
taining these bodies and their compounds form a very useful 
and agreeable addition to dietaries. 

Importance of a Proper Supply of Mineral Matter. It 




32 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

was formerly thouight that eince mineral matter is uniTersally 
present in food and drink, an individual need pay little at- 
tention to this phase of the feeding problem. Before the 
patlia of elimination of ash constituents had been studied with 
any eare, it was assumed that many such compounds were 
excreted in the feces without having ever been absorbed. 
Since more light has been thrown on the fact that the in- 
testines form the regular path of excretion of certain mineral 
matter, and on the chemical nature of the regulation of body 
processes, there has been greater realization of the fact that 
unless a diet is chosen from a wide range of food materials, 
there is danger of some of these constituents being supplied in 
too small quantities or not at all. This is especially true in 
the case of artificially-fed infants and of growing children, 
whose demand for building material is large, but it is not 
negligible even in adults, especially for the proper control 
of the body processes. If care is taken to provide iron, 
phosphorus and calcium in organic forms, there ia little dan- 
ger of inadequate supply of the inorganic salts, since these 
are present in the milk, eggs, green vegetables and fruits 
which best supply the elements mentioned above. 

Use of Mineral Matter in Disease. In health, deprivation 
of salt soon leads to great loss of vitality, but in varioue 
diseases reduction in the consumption of salt is known to be 
beneficial. Thus in such conditions as B right's Disease, 
sodium chlorid (common salt), appears to be so injurious 
that attempts are made to reduce the quantity ingested. This 
is known as " salt starvation." Epileptics who depend 
upon bromides to prevent their fits can do with much less of 
these substances if their salt is cut down, because bromin up 
to a certain extent displaces the chlorin in such compounds 
as sodium chlorid, and fails to fulfill its purpose in hhcIi a 
case. 

Lime-starvation is also practiced under certain 
stances, and some animals can thrive fairly well if 
replaced by strontium, an allied substance i 
mally in animal tissues. It is 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 33 

certain serious disorders like calculus disease, rickets, scurvy, 
tuberculosis, etc., are due primarily to too much or too little 
of some mineral ; but as already stated the real causes must lie 
deeper, although the possibility of such factors must never be 
underrated. Scurvy was once held to be due to too much 
salt, used as preservatives; later it was regarded as due less 
to excess of some salts than absence of others, as potassium. 
We only know that with a more liberal dietary, including 
vegetables and fruits, it has largely disappeared. Calculus 
disease of certain kinds is more frequent in districts where 
drinking water contains much lime, but most people escape 
the affection. 

Children with rickets often improve on preparations con- 
taining lime and sodium, as also do scrofulous children, but 
it is diflBcult to show that in such cases the remedies act by 
supplying any one kind of mineral food. The safe way is to 
supply foods containing all, unless some particular condition 
makes the elimination or addition of specific elements neces- 
sary. vy^.tl^ \ 

FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 

CONDIHENTS — BEVERAGES 
CONDIHENTS 

Condiments are substances not necessarily possessing nutri- 
tive value, which are used to give sapidity to tasteless or un- 
appetizing dishes. To what extent they have any specific 
action on the functions of the body is not clear. They tend 
to increase the fiow of saliva, and thus in theory favor the 
digestion of starch. 

Classification, The number of condiments, if we include 
appetizing substances of all kinds, is very large. In some 
countries, olives, a bit of dried herring, in fact, anything pos- 
sessing pungency, may be served before a regular meal. Al- 
coholic beverages need not be considered here. 

Sauces perhaps represent the largest class of condiments 
and the great number and variety of their ingredients give 



34 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

us some idea of the number of individual condiments. They 
are added to food while eating. 

Spices (ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves), are used 
only in cooking. In this same category may be placed flavor- 
ing extracts. 

Mustard forms a condiment in itself. It is used both in 
preparing food and as an accessory while eating. Horserad- 
ish belongs in the same class. The flavor of these depends 
on a volatile oil peculiar to each substance. Such oils have 
no value as foods. Pepper, salt and vinegar form the most 
indispensable of table condiments. Of these, salt is, strictly 
speaking, a food. When, however, it is used in excess of 
body needs, simply to modify the flavor of food, it is prop- 
erly classed as a condiment. 

Condiments are taken for their mild stimulating effects on 
the tissues with which they come in contact. They are not 
required by a normal appetite, but are frequently used to 
obscure the flavor of poorly prepared food. Just as bread can 
be made of so delicate a flavor that it can be eaten without 
butter, most other foods can be so treated as to have a suffi-' 
cient sapidity. In the Northern States, tomatoes and melons 
are eaten with various accessories ; in some parts of the South 
such fruits have so delicious a flavor that they are eaten plain. 
To add a cheap table sauce to a costly steak seems a gas- 
tronomic sin and certainly has no physiological justiflcation. 

In short, the taste for condiments is largely an artificial 
one, and their use should be limited. A well-trained palate 
tires of these high seasonings more quickly than of the mild 
characteristic flavors of food perfect in its natural state or 
so cooked as to develop its inherent taste. The moderate use 
of condiments occasionally, for the sake of variety, or when 
the appetite is feeble,- may be legitimate. They should be 
withheld (with the exception of salt), from the food of chil- 
dren, both because they destroy the appetite for milder foods, 
and because they are irritating to the mucous membrane of 
the alimentary canal. Because of their irritant properties 
they should also be given with caution to invalids, especially 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OB ADJUNCTS 35 

those suffering from any inflammation of the digestive tract. 
A person properly trained to relish foods for their natural 
flavors does not crave condiments, and is better off without 
tiiem. 

BEVERAGES 

These food accessories comprise milk, coffee, tea, cocoa 
and chocolate, alcoholic drinks, lemonade and other acid 
drinks, aerated and carbonated drinks. Milk is a food 
rather than a beverage, becoming a solid instead of a liquid 
food in the stomach. It is the only product in nature pro- 
vided solely for food. It contains not only protein, fat, and 
carbohydrates in good proportions, but also a rich supply of 
mineral salts in an available form. Growing children should 
have at least a quart of milk every day. Cocoa and chocolate 
are also valuable for their content of protein, fat, and car- 
bohydrate, and drinks from fruit juices contain mineral salts, 
organic acids (which help to maintain the alkalinity of the 
blood), and some carbohydrate. In other cases, the value of 
beverages does not lie in their nutritive content. 

Stimulation, Coffee, tea, chocolate and cocoa contain a 
stimulating alkaloid which produces mild exhilaration without 
reaction. Alcoholic drinks while they tend to produce nar- 
cotic effects when taken in excess, act as stimulants and ap- 
petizers in small quantities. 

Thirst Quenching, Substances like lemonade, ginger ale, 
and aerated drinks in general use are used for this purpose. 

Sapidity, Coffee and its congeners are used largely for 
their delicate flavor, and this may be said to a certain degree 
of all beverages. Drinks especially designed for the invalid 
and the sick will be considered under other heads. 



CHAPTER II 
NTJTBITION 

DIGESTION — ABSORPTION — METABOLISM 

Under this term is usually understood the digestion and 
absorption of nourishment, its assimilation and utilization, 
its storage in excess, and finally the elimination of the 
products of wear and tear, of combustion products, and of 
nutriment or waste which cannot be utilized. Those processes 
of nutrition which occur after absorption are now included in 
the term metabolism. To restate this in a simple form 
(adapted from Thompson), nutrition involves: 

1. The secretion of digestive fluids, and their action upon 
food in the alimentary canal — in other words, digestion. 

2. The passage of the ingredients of the digested food into 
the blood vessels and Ijrmphathic vessels — absorption. 

3. The utilization of the absorbed nutrition products by 
the cells — assimilation or upward metabolism. 

4. The elimination of waste material — disassimilation or 
downward metabolism. 

The subjects of digestion and absorption will be treated in 
detail for each food principle, and then summarized at the 
end of each topic. 

DIGESTIOir 

DIGESTION OF PEOTEINS 

Digestion in the Stomach, Protein is not chemically al- 
tered in the mouth. The process of chewing simply mois- 
tens and divides it into small particles so that it is easily 
swallowed and more readily attacked by the secretion of the 
stomach. Passing down the oesophagus, through the cardiac 

36 



DIGESTION 37 

sphincter guarding the entrance to the stomach, it enters that 
portion of the latter organ called the fundus. Here it rests 
quietly for some time, so that it is not immediately mixed 
with gastric juice, as formerly taught, but the outer portions 
of the mass are successively attacked and dissolved. These 
soft portions are then pressed into the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach and subjected to a thorough 
mixing. 

The gastric juice is an acid fluid which may be secreted in 
large quantities — as much as one or two gallons in 24 hours. 
Its acidity is due to the presence of about 0.2 per cent, to 0.4 
per cent, of hydrochloric acid. This of itself is capable; of 
causing protein to swell and to some extent dissolve; of 
hydrolyzing the collagen of connective tissue; of decalcifying 
bone ; and of preventing bacterial action. 

The gastric juice contains two enzymes which act on pro- 
tein, pepsin and rennin. Pepsin can act only in the presence 
of a definite percentage of hydrochloric acid, while rennin 
acts in a neutral solution. The relations of rennin and pep- 
sin are not yet very clearly understood. The function of 
rennin is to curdle milk, which causes it to remain in the 
stomach long enough to be digested by the pepsin. 

Action of Pepsin. The protein of the diet, more or less 
swollen, softened, and dissolved by the action of hydrochloric 
acid, is changed chemically by pepsin, into a series of in- 
creasingly simpler and more soluble products, namely, acid 
proteins, proteoses (often called albumoses) and peptones. 
The change to peptones is not complete, but these three 
products of peptic digestion tend to pass together into the 
intestine, when the pyloric sphincter which guards the en- 
trance to the duodenum opens to let them pass. The opening 
and closing of this sphincter is controlled by two factors: 
1. The consistency of the partly digested food, solid particles 
tending to keep the pylorus closed. 2. The presence of free 
hydrochloric acid in the stomach contents. This is the more 
important factor. 

Protein is capable of absorbing and imiting chemically with 



38 PRACTICAL DIETETICS ^M 

a, certain amount of acid. When it is so saturated, free adf^ 
will be present, having now nothing with which to combine, 
and this free acid is the stimulus whicb causes tbe pyloric 
sphincter to relax and lets a little spurt of food into the 
duodenum. Once in the duodenum, this same acid acts as 
tbe stimulus to close tbe pylorus, and no more food enters the 
duodenum until the first portion has been neutralized. 

A clear understanding of the way in whicb the pyloric 
sphincter is regulated throws considerable light on stomach 
digestion. We can understand why a certain quantity of in- 
digestible residue, such as is present in most of our staple 
foods — meats, vegetables, fruits, etc. — is of service in re- 
taining food within the stomach for a time, giving tbe 
bydrochlorie acid a chance to exercise its bactericidal power, 
and favoring thorough gastric digestion. It also explains 
why a meal of " bolted " food (or of food imperfectly masti- 
cated through absence of teeth), or a failure of free hydro- 
chloric acid in the stomach contents, as in hj-poacidity or 
achylia gastrica, may set up such a continuous state of pyloric 
contraction that the stomach remains uneniptied for a long 
period, with a good prospect of fermentation and gas pro- 
duction, of relief by vomiting, or of an attack of acute in- 
digestion, biliousness or diarrhcea. The nurse will under- 
stand why a diet of " litjuide " for a person in relatively 
good health does not prove satisfactory. Liijuids do not stay 
long enough in the stomach to give a sense of fullness, give 
the stomach little to do, and tend to pass into tbe intestine 
poorly prepared for the action of the digestive juices there. 

Digestion in the Intestines. On entering the duodenum, 
the acid chyme from tbe stomach meets three secretions, all 
alkaline in reaction, namely, the pancreatic juice, the bile, 
and the intestinal juice. 

The hydrochloric acid of tbe stomach is indirectly respon- 
sible for the flow of the pancreatic juice, for this begins only 
after acid food lias entered tbe duodenum. Tbe pancreatic 
juice contains an enzyme capable of digesting protein only 
after it has come into contact with the intestinal juice. This 



DIGESTION 



39 



enzyme is then called trypsin, and the changes which it pro- 
duces in protein are similar to those produced by pepsin; it 
acts, however, in an alkaline medium. 

The products of tryptic digestion are therefore alkali prO" 
tein, proteoses (albumoses) and peptones. 

The bile plays no significant part in protein digestion, ex- 
cept as it helps to neutralize the chyme. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme called erepsin, 
which completes the digestion of protein, breaking down the 
proteoses and peptones formed by pepsin and trypsin into 
still less complex compounds called amino acids. These are 
the ^^ end-products '* of protein digestion. The digestive 
process can go no farther. There are no enzymes acting on 
proteins in the large intestines. 

Summary. The chemical changes in protein during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

PROTEIN 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME ACTION 


Mouth. 


Saliva 


Xone 


None 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 


Rennin 

Pepsin and Hy- 
drochloric acid 


Coagulates milk 

fAcid Protein, 
Proteoses, 
Peptones 


Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 

Bile 

Intestinal Juice 


Trypsin (in alka- 
line medium) 

None 

Erepsin (acts 
• only on proteo- 
ses and pep- 
tones ) 


'Alkali Protein, 
■ Proteoses, 
Peptones 

None 

Amino Acids 



40 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

DIGESTION OF FAT 

Fat is not acted upon by the secretions of the mouth nor 
to any great extent by those of the stomach. The gastric 
juice contains an enzyme, called gastric lipase, which* has the 
power of acting on emulsified fats, such as in cream or yolk 
of eggs. It plays a more important part in the digestion of 
infants than of adults. 

The presence of fat in the stomach retards the secretion of 
gastric juice. Hence a certain excess of fat in the stomach 
is suflBcient to close the pylorus for a longer or shorter time, 
due to the failure of the appearance of free hydrochloric acid. 
This doubtless accounts for the fact that fat in the diet often 
seems to retard and otherwise disturb digestion. 

Digestion of fat takes place mainly in the small intestines. 
The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called steapsin, which 
has the power of emulsifying fats and also of splitting them 
into fatty acids and glycerine. 

The bile contains no such enzymes, but it is nevertheless an 
important factor in the digestion of fat. It has the power 6i 
increasing greatly the activity of the pancreatic lipase (steap- 
sin), and of holding in solution the fatty acids formed by 
its action, so that they are more perfectly absorbed. When 
bile is lacking, much of the fat fails of absorption and is 
excreted through the intestines. Emulsification is an im- 
portant aid in the splitting of fat into fatty acids and glycer- 
ine, the forms in which fat is chiefly absorbed. 

DIGESTION OF CAEBOHYDEATES 

1. Digestion of Starch. There is little doubt that prim- 
itive man accomplished much of the digestion of starch in the 
mouth. The saliva contains two enzymes, ptyalin, and maU 
tase. By the action of ptyalin starch is changed to dextrins 
and these to maltose; by the action of maltase, maltose is 
converted into dextrose, the end-product of salivary digestion. 
The crude uncooked food required prolonged mastication be- 
fore it could be swallowed, and during this mastication the 
enzymes had opportunity for action. Raw starch is so very 



DIGESTION 41 

slowly affected by enzymes, that much of the food value of un- 
cooked cereals is lost, so that the practice of baking ground 
grain into bread developed very early. This fact in regard 
to starch digestion is often disregarded by advocates of a re- 
turn to raw foods. 

There is said to be some evidence that a pharyngeal reflex 
once existed which prevented the bolting of foods which are 
capable of salivary digestion, or which are not easily di- 
gestible without mastication. In recent years, Mr. Horace 
Fletcher has counseled a return to prolonged mastication, in 
order that salivary digestion may be carried to its fullest ex- 
tent. It is claimed that the more perfect utilization of all 
food eaten necessitates the taking of a smaller amount. 
There is no doubt that thorough mastication renders the di- 
gestion of starch easier and more complete, but it will not 
greatly alter the total food requirement. 

The starchy food mixed with saliva passes from the mouth 
to the stomach and lodges in the fundus, the portions last 
eaten always going to the center of the mass. Thus, while 
the gastric juice is at work upon the outer layer, attacking 
the protein of the diet, the inner portions remain alkaline for 
a considerable time, so that salivary digestion may continue 
undisturbed. 

From time to time, the soluble products of salivary and 
gastric digestion pass into the small intestine. Here the con- 
version of starch and intermediate products into simple sugars 
is completed. The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called 
amylopsin, which acts like ptyalin, i. e., changes starch to 
dextrins, and finally to maltose. 

The intestinal juice contains an enz3rme capable of chang- 
ing maltose to dextrose, the final product in starch digestion. 

Summary, The chemical changes in starch during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : 



42 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PABT OF 

ALIMENTABY 

TRACT 


OP 

NAME 

BECBETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

STABCH 


PBODUCTS OF 
ENZYME 
ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Ptyalin 
Maltase 


fDextrins 
Maltose 

Dextrose 


stomach 


• 

Gastric Juice 


None 




i 

Small Intestine 

1 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Amylopsin 
Maltase 


fDextrins 
' Maltose 

Dextrose 



2. Digestion of Sugars. Although sugars are perfectly 
soluble and easily absorbed, they must all be converted into 
monosaccharides or simple sugars (chiefly dextrose), before 
they can be utilized by the body. Hence we j&nd a number 
of enzymes in the alimentary tract acting upon disaccharides. 
Two of these have already been indicated in discussing the 
digestion of starch, i. e., the maltases of the saliva and in- 
testinal juice, which convert each molecule of maltose into 
two of dextrose. In the stomach, a slight hydrolysis of the 
disaccharides may occur through the influence of the hydro- 
chloric acid. In the intestines, provision is made for iheir 
complete transformation. Both the pancreatic and intestinal 
juices contain enzymes of this type. In young animals, or 
older individuals on a milk diet, the pancreatic juice con- 
tains lactase, which converts lactose (milk sugar) into dex- 
trose and galactose. The intestinal juice contains three such 
enz3rmes, micrase, acting on sucrose (cane sugar) ; lactase, 
acting on lactose ; and maltase, acting on maltose. 

Summary. The chemical changes in sugar during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



DIGESTION 



43 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACr 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

SUGARS 


PRODUCTS 

OF ENZYME 

ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Maltase 


Dextrose 


Small Intestines 


Pancreatic Juice 

Intestinal Juice 

1. 


Lactase (at 
times) 

Lactase 

Maltase 

Sucrase 


fDextrose 
"^Galactose 

fDextrose 
\Galacto8e 

Dextrose 

fDextrose 
I^Levulose 



Mineral Matter and Water require no changes to prepare 
them for absorption. 

BESUHE^ OF DIGESTION 

The processes of digestion are both mechanical and chem- 
ical. By mechanical processes the foods are first softened 
and finely divided, so as to be nan-irritating to the walls of 
the alimentary tract, and to expose as much surface as pos- 
sible to the action of the digestive enz3rmes; secondly, they 
are moved along the alimentary tract from time to time, to 
facilitate digestion and absorption, and to expel indigestible 
residues. The movements of the mouth in mastication, of 
the oesophagus in swallowing, and of the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach in mixing the food with the 
gastric juice; the rhythmic and peristaltic movements of the 
small intestines, by which the food is alternately churned in 
a stationary position and then pushed along to a new region 
to repeat the process; and finally, the anti-peristaltic move- 
ments of the first part of the large intestines and the slow 
peristalsis throughout its entire length, form a series of events 
of tremendous importance to the welfare of the organism. 

By chemical processes, complex food-stuffs are converted 
into simpler substances out of which the body can build the 



44 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



compounds essential to its persistence and activity. The di- 
gestive fluids and the enzymes contained therein, with the 
results of their activity, are most readily indicated by the 
following table: 



PART OF 


NAME OF 
SECRETION 


REACTION 


17N7V1tfK4 


FOOD 


PRODUCTS OF 


ALIMENTARY 
TRACT 


TO 
LITMUS 


PRESENT 


PRINCIPLES 
ACTED UPON 


ENZYMB 

ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Alkaline 


Ptyalin 


Starch 


r Soluble 
Starch- 
Dextrins 
. Maltose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 


stomach 


Gastric 
Juice 


Acid 

(0.2%- 
0.4% 


Pepsin 


Proteins 


fAcid 
^ Protein 
Proteoses 










L Peptones 






H CI.) 














Rennin 


Protein 
(especially 
casein of 
milk) 


Coagulated 
Protein 








Lipase 


Emulsified 
Fats 


Fatty acids 
and 
glycerine 


Small 


Pancreatic 


Alkaline 


Trypsin 


Proteins 


( Alkali 


Intestines 


Juice 


• 






J Protein 
1 Proteoses 
L Peptones 








Steapsin 


Fats 


f Emulsified 

Pat — 
-{ Patty 

acids and 








Amylopsin 


Starch 


i. glycerine 
r Soluble 
J Starch — 
1 Dextrins — 
I Maltose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


'Dextrose 








(in young 


(Milk 


and 








animals) 


Sugar) 


L Galactose 




Intestinal 


Alkaline 


Erepsin 


Proteins in 


Amino 




Juice 






the form of 

Proteoses 

and 


Acids 








Sucrase 


Peptones 
Sucrose 


Dextrose and 
LeTolose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose and 










Galactose 



The bile contains no important enzymes, but greatly facilitates the dlgMh 
tion of fats. The intestinal juice contains an enzyme which mftkas trj r pMft 
an active enzyme, and a substance which helps to stimulate the flow of 
pancreatic juice. 



DIGESTION 45 

Inspection of the table on page 44 shows that there are five 
so-called digestive juices, viz. : saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic 
juice, bile, and intestinal juice. All are produced intermit- 
tently except the bile, which is secreted continuously into the 
gall-bladder and discharged at intervals into the intestine. 
All are alkaline except the gastric juice. All contain power- 
ful enzymes except the bile. Enzymes which digest protein 
occur in the gastric juice (pepsin), the pancreatic juice (tryp- 
sin), and the intestinal juice (erepsin). Ferments which 
transform starch to sugar occur especially in the saliva and 
pancreatic juices, and are commonly known as diastatic 
enz3rmes. Ptyalin is an old name for salivary diastase, amy- 
lopsin for pancreatic diastase. 

The principal fat-splitting enzyme occurs in the pan- 
creatic juice, and is known as pancreatic lipase or steapsin. 
Numerous enzymes of minor importance occur in the gastric, 
pancreatic, and intestinal juices. Bile in itself is able to 
emulsify fat as a step toward digestion. . 

FACTOBS DETEBMINING BATE OF DIGESTION 

We know of the existence of many factors which influence 
salivary and gastric digestion, but much less about intestinal 
digestion. Among these are the nature of the food, cook- 
ery, appetite, mastication, palatability, mental state, amount 
of fluid in the meal, the pyloric reflexes, etc. The nature of 
the individual plays a powerful role; some individuals can 
subsist almost wholly upon one or a few articles, while others 
quickly revolt against monotony of diet. Idiosyncrasy is 
another important factor; for example, some individuals can- 
not eat mutton, however disguised, while in others sugar is 
so strong a stimulant to peristalsis that it sets up a violent 
diarrhoea. The above being true of presumably healthy peo- 
ple, the factors which may influence digestion in the sick, 
invalid and convalescent must be still more uncertain. 
Hence tables which purport to give the relative digestibility 
of foods must be studied with allowances. We can study this 
problem in test tubes, or by examining the washings from the 



46 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Btomacli after definite meala or in fistula patients, but the 
results can hardly be applied forthwith to all persona. 

The direct Btimuli to the eecretion of saliva are the sight, 
odor or taste of food; or the mechanical irritation produced 
by contact of food-stuffs with the mouth. Indirectly, the 
thought of food may be a psychic stimulus to the flow of 
saliva. Excitement may so ctieck the flow of saliva that it 
la impossible to swallow dry food. 

The stimuli to the eecretion of gastric ]'nice are both psychic 
and chemical. Pawlow has demonstrated, in the ease of 
dogs, that the sight of food or the chewing of food in the 
mouth may produce a very effective flow of gastric juice, to 
which he attributes great importance in digestion. How im- 
portant this preliminary flow before food enters the stomach 
may be in the case of man has not been very clearly demon- 
strated, but it seems reasonable that the desire for eating, the 
act of eating and the pleasure obtained therefrom exercise 
a favorable influence upon gastric secretion. It has recently 
been shown that the products of salivary digestion act as 
a stimulus to the flow of gastric juice, and that once the 
process of gastric digestion is initiated, the products of pep- 
tic activity cause the continuance of the secretion as long 
aa tlie food remains in the stomach. The mere mechanical 
irritation caused by the presence of food in the stomach is 
ineffective. Thus white of egg will cause no flow. But cer- 
tain substances, such as meat extracts, bitters and condiments, 
promote secretion. The use of meat broths, gelatin jellies, 
peptones (i. e,, products of gastric digestion), and toast (con- 
taining dextrins or products of salivary digestion), at the 
beginning of a meal, or to promote feeble gastric digeatioii.i^^ 
an invalid, is therefore a rational practice. ^^M 

ASSOEFTIOIT ^1 

Wliilft absorption through a permeable animal membrane 
outside the body may be a simple physical process, following 
the ordinary laws of pressure, diffusion, osmosis, etc., the case 



ABSORPTION 47 

)B far otherwise in the alimentary tract, ivhere the selective 
activity of the living cell becomes a positive factor. The 
pressure in secreting glands rises above blood pressure; sub- 
stances pass inward to tiie body through the mucous mem- 
brane without a corresponding movement in the opposite di- 
rection. Thus blood serum, placed in a loop of intestine is 
promptly absorhed, but if the loop he surrounded with serum, 
it does not pass in a similar manner into the lumen of the 
eection of intestine. 

The stomach is not primarily aa absorbing organ, but a few 
substances, such as sugars and peptones, pass to a limited 
estent through its walls. The most important seat of absorp- 
tion is the small intestine, and second, the large intestine. 
Absorption in the small intestine is aiiected through the in- 
numerable little projections with which the intestine is lined, 
known as villi, which greatly extend the amount of surface. 
These villi contain a capillary network and a so-called lac- 
teal space. The capillaries by converging into larger vessels 
eventually form the portal vein which passes through the 
liver. The lacteal spaces are prolonged into lymphatic ves- 
sels which similarly converge to form the thoracic duct. The 
lacteals are intended almost wholly for the absorption of the 
fats, all other digestive products passing through the liver 
before reaching the general circulation. 

Absorption continues throughout the length of the large 
intestine, being especially flavored by antiperistalsis in the 
upper portions. Constipation soraefimes results from the 
great absorptive power of this region, the feces being left dry 
and hard and hence difScult to evacuate. 

Absorption of Protein. This question still continues to be 
a riddle. At some point, either in the intestinal walls and 
villi or blood vessels, or in the blood itself, the amino acids 
formed in digestion are united to form body protein. We do 
not know how or where this transformation occurs. It is 
certain that a small amount of humanized albumin reaches 
the blood through the thoracic duet. The rest must enter the 
1 circulation and pass through the liver into the general 



HjlOTtal circulation am 



48 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

blood stream. The end products of peptic (ligestion seldom 
are fonnd in the blood, and when present, tend to pass at once 
into the urine. When food albumin for any reason enters 
the blood, it does not act as blood albumin, but is at once 
excreted by the kidneys as a poison. Proteoses and peptones 
behave similarly. As animals may be made to live in health 
on a diet of end products alone, wo know that these repre- 
sent the utilizable portion of food albumin. 

Absorption of Fat. It is now commonly believed that fat 
is absorbed in the form of the end products of its digestion, 
fatty acids and glycerine, and that somewhere in the 
intestinal wall these are recombined into neutral fat. It is 
possible that some of the finely emulsified fat is able to pass 
unchanged through the intestinal wall. In either case, mi- 
nute fat droplets pass into the lacteals, and finally into the 
blood stream by way of the thoracic duct. A small portion 
finds its way directly into the blood. 

Tats having a low melting point are absorbed more quickly 
than solid fats, and pure fat more readily than fat inter- 
mingled with other food principles, as in fat meat, for ex- 
ample. 

Absorption of CarboJiydrates. The end products of carbo- 
hydrate digestion pass to the blood by way of the portal sys- 
tem. The monosaccharides on reaching the liver enter the 
general circulation as dextrose if required for Immediate use ; 
otherwise they are stored in the liver in the form of glycogen, 
which can he again transformed into sugar when demanded 
by the system to furnish energy. Sugars are so readily ab- 
Borbed that if taken in large quantities the body may be un- 
able to utilize them, and the excess is excreted in the urine. 
This is especially true in case of an excess of cane sugar or 
milk sugar. They may be absorbed before digestion, and 
there are no enzymes in the blood capable of converting them 
into dextrose so that they can be burned or stored. Under 
such circumstances they are useless and must be gotten rid of. 
If maltose is absorbed too rapidly, it may still be changed to 
dextrose by enzymes in the blood or tissues, and bo be utilized. 



ABSORPTION 



49 



sorption of Mineral Matter. As salts are not digested 
in the ordinary sense of the word, they require nothing more 
than solution in the digestive fluids before absorption. The 
mineral matter is set free from food and diffuses more or less 
rapidly into the surrounding fluids. Common salt is most 
quickly absorbed. The chief locality for absorption is the 
email intestines. The older text books taught that salts 
were absorbed only by diffusion through the intestinal wall, 
which required that another solution must at the same time 
pass from the blood to the intestines until both fluids were 
of the same degree of concentration. It appears, however, 
that in the main, mineral matter is taken up in the intestinal 
wall without diffusion, and as fast as it can be incorporated 
with certain peculiar solvents is absorbed into the blood. 

Absorption of Water. Water is not absorbed by the stom- 
ach, but passes quickly in little spurts (if taken alone) into 



I' 



idly absorbed ; it may be 
twenty minutes after 
on may be considerably 



the intestines. Here it is very rapid 

excreted through the kidneys ' 

ingestion. The rapidity of abaorptio 

influenced by mineral matter dissolved in tlie water. 

Summary. Absorption is an active, not a passive process. 
_ [t takes place mainly in the intestines, the larger part before 
the food reaches the ileo-cecal valve. 

Proteins are absorbed by the villi, chiefly in the form of 
amino acids and pass through the portal vein to the liver. 

Fats are absorbed by the lacteals, chiefly in the form of 
fatty acids and glycerine, but pass to the lymphatics as neu- 
tral fat, and enter the blood stream from the thoracic duct. 

Carbohydrates are absorbed by the villi in the form of su- 
gar (chiefly dextrose) and pass through the portal vein to 
'file liver. 

TJnahsorbed material forms the feces (see Excretion, page 
JS3). Undigested proteins, fats and carbohydrates are liable 
to attack by putrefactive and fermentative organisms in the 
intestines. The products of such bacterial action are absorbed 
to a considerable extent. Carbohydrates which escape diges- 
tion tend to produce lactic and other acids. This ferraenta- 



50 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



tion is not altogether an evil, for it checks the putrefactiffl 
of undigested meat. The latter is imdeairable, as the products 
are likely to prove toxic. It is for this reason that lactic acid, 
especially in the form of buttermilk and artificially fermented 
Bour milk, ia largely employed as a remedial agent in intes- 
tinal indigestion. 



, METABOUSM 

Metabolism ia the sum of the chemical changes taking place 
in the cells of the body in connection with all biological 
proceMea, including growth, repair and waste, generation and 
maintenance of heat, all manifestations of functional activity, 
storage of surplus nutriment, etc. It comprises two phases, 
anabolism and katabolism. 

Anabolism embraces the changes involved in the upbuilding 
of the cells, and corresponds in a general way to nutrition. 
Assimilaiion is the selective act of the cells in appropriating 
the special form of nutriment in the circulating blood which 
ia suited for their needs. The special phases of anaholism 
comprise tlie assimilation of nitrogen for growth and repair 
of protoplasm, the storage of a certain amount of fat and 
carbohydrate, the assimilation of oxygen for maintenance of 
heat and functional activity, and the retention of inorganic 
salts in the bones and other tissues. 

Katabolism comprises the changes involved in the contin- 
uous molecular waste of the cells ; in the constant oxidation 
going on in the tissues; in the maintenance of animal heat; 
in the esercise of muscular, nervous and secretory activitj'; 
and perhaps in the breaking up of protein into oxidizable 
carbohydrates and nitrogenous waste products. We speak 
less of the acts of katabolism than of the products of katabo- 
lism, which are a measure of those acta. The chief of these 
products are: (1) urea, the chief form of excretion of ni- 
trogen, and (3) carbon dioxide and water, which represent 
the products of energy-yielding oxidations. 

Elimination is the escape or expulsion of the prodoctoi 



METABOLISM 



Bl 



katabolism from the tissues into the blood, and corresponds 
to disasBimilation or demitrition. Excretion is the final ex- 
pulsion of the end products of katabolism from the excretory 
organs and includes the expulsion of unabsorbed aliment by 
the bowel. 

In the case of certain products of metabolism, it is hardly 
possible to state positively whether they represent anabolism 
or katabolism. Here belong especially the substances formed 
in connection with secretion, as the digestive enzymes, the 
hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the iodothyrin of the 
thyroid gland and the adrenalin of the suprarenal gland. In 
all likelihood both factors participate, for certain substances 
must be assimilated from tlie food to form these bodies which 
in turn are set free in t!ie blood. It is also true that some 
of these substances act by their mere presence, without ap- 
parent waste (catalytic action). 

Metabolism of Protein. A relatively small proportion of 
protein is normally disposed of by oxidation for energy-forma- 
tion, when carbohydrates and fats enter fully into the diet. 
But in their absence, protein, by virtue of the fact that it con- 
tains the elements of carbohydrates and fata (carbon, hydro- 
gen and oxygen) in its molecule, can furnish all the heat and 
force required. Certain savages subsist wholly on meat and 
remain in good health, and in the so-called Salisbury treat- 
ment of obesity, etc., it can be demonstrated at will that a 
patient may subsist for weeks on raw beef without apparent 
detriment, provided plenty of water is drunk, the excess of 
water aiding in the elimination of unutilized protein. 

When absorbed protein reaches the liver, a large part of the 
nitrogen is split off and excreted as urea. The remaining 
portion goes to make good the small daily waste of body 
protein. The portion of the protein molecule left after the 
nitrogen is split off is available aa fuel. When carbohydrates 
and fats are liberally supplied, so that protein is not required 
for fuel, the daily amount needed is comparatively small. 
Even when the body is losing nitrogen rapidly, as in certain 
tvveiBf it has been found that this is partly because the body 



4 



62 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

protein is being used as fuel, and the loss can be largely 
prevented by furnishing more energy in the form of carbo- 
hydrate or fat. Much confusion has arisen because the excess 
of nitrogen in the diet is to some extent identical in form 
with tlje waste products of cellular activity. Besides urea, 
some of the chief nitrogenous products of protein metabolism 
are ammonium salts, uric acid, creatin and creatinin. 

The non-nitrogenous portion of protein may be burned or 
possibly stored, but the nitrogen excess must be eliminated. 
Because of the fact that excess of nitrogen throws work on the 
kidneys, it is assumed that an excessive protein diet is injuri- 
ous to the integrity of these organs. This is evident in dis- 
c&Hdd kidneys, but cannot be proved for healthy organs. 
However, it seems imnecessary to consume a great excess of 
protein and perhaps unwise, owing to the great frequency of 
fatal kidney diseases. At any rate, except where protein is 
FfKX'ially advantageous for ease of digestion, it is unnecessary 
to make it a large part of the diet. 

M etaholism of Fat. Fat, which is passed into the blood 
from the tlioracic duct, is carried over the body and deposited 
in many organs and tissues, unless needed for immediate use 
as a Boun.e of energy, in which case it is oxidized to carbon 
dioA'ifle and water. It has been shown that diet-fat may be 
i\(t])fmUi(\ in the body in the same form as eaten, but the 
readiest means of forming body fat is usually to give an 
i^xeess of carbohydrate. The ease with which carbohydrates 
form fat is shown in the case of cows which produce large 
cjuantiiies of butter fat on an herbivorous diet. It is also 
possible to form fat from protein, but it is di£Scult, as a con- 
Fiderable part of the energy of the protein molecule goes to 
pet rid of the nitrogen, and protein increases the rate of metab- 
olism. We know very little of the details of fat metabolisnu 
Some investi;rators hold that it must be converted into dex- 
trose before it can be oxidized. As already stated, an excess 
of carbohydrate mav be stored in the form of fat 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates. The blood TnaintainR a con- 
stant sugar content of about 1.5 per cent. As fart as this 



EXCRETION 53 

sugar is oxidized, it is replaced by more from the store of 
glycogen in the liver and muscles, or from newly-formed 
sugar of recently digested food. The final products of carbo- 
hydrate oxidation are carbon dioxide and water, but several 
intermediate products (as lactic acid) are first formed, prob- 
ably by the action of enzymes. 

When the body is unable to store any more carbohydrate as 
glycogen, all further storage of excess is in the form of fat. 

When sugar is lacking in the blood, as in starvation or 
failure to utilize carbohydrates, the sugar content is main- 
tained at the expense of protein. This explains why the dia- 
betic who is eating no carbohydrate, may still excrete sugar 
in the urine. There is some experimental evidence that su- 
gar may be formed also from fat. At any rate, fat is oxidized 
in absence of carbohydrate, and whether it is first changed to 
sugar, or oxidized directly, it is a compact means of storing 
energy, since one gram of fat will yield 2^ times as much 
as an equal amount of protein or carbohydrate. 

EXCBETION 

The waste products of metabolism and all unutilized iood, 
along with the products of oxidation, are eliminated from the 
system in several ways. Water escapes through the lungs, 
skin and kidneys. Aside from the obvious fluid perspiration, 
a steady evaporation takes place from the skin (insensible 
perspiration). The carbon dioxide produced by oxidation 
escapes by the lungs, and nitrogenous products of protein me- 
tabolism by the urine. The feces are made up chiefly of the 
residues of food, but also contain biliary matters and other 
products of the body. When there is excessive putrefaction 
of the fecal matter, some of the soluble material is absorbed 
and eliminated in the urine. Generally speaking, putrefac- 
tion (of nitrogenous food) and fermentation (of carbohy- 
drates) hold each other in check. It is known that fasting 
and starving people pass some feces, thus showing that the 
bowel is a true excretory organ. 




POOD VALUES 
mTEOOEH BAXANGE — ENEHQT TALITE OF FOOD 

We are now in position to understand something of food 
valnea, which depend on the food actually utilized in the body, 
to the exclusion of food unahsorbed, or eliminated because in 
excess of the demands of the system. Energy-yielding ma- 
terial which is not used at the time may be stored, but be- 
yond a certain point, stored nutriment must be regarded as 
undesirable, as in obese subjects. 

As stated by Atwater, the food supplies body wants in five 
ways: (1) tissue-building, (2) tissue-repairing, (3) storage 
for future use, (4) oxidation to maintain animal heat and (o) 
oxidation to supply energy ; or we may say that according to 
fanction, foods are classified as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. (See page 5.) 

HITEOazn BALAITCE OB KITSOOEN EQUILXBErOK 

In body building and repairing, the nitrogen of protein 
food is indispensable. In the other functions, nitrogen is not 
utilized. Carbohydrates and fats are the natural and con- 
venient eources of energy, although the protein contains in 
itself non-nitrogenous material capable of osidation. As al- 
ready stated, however, to depend largely upon protein for 
oxidizable food means the ingestion of an enormous quantity 
of unnecesBary nitrogen, the getting rid of which involves 
■waete of energy and is thought to necessitate a strain upon 
the excretory system. Furthermore, when the diet consists 
chiefly of protein, much of the latter may not be digested and 
absorbed as such, but may remain in the intestine, there to 
54 



NITEOGSS BALANCE 



55 



I 



undergo putrefactive changes. In the course of putrefaction 
certain soluble poiaonouB substances form and are absorbed, 
requiring elimination by the kidneys. The excess of nitrogen 
which cannot be utilized in tisane repair must also be elimir 
nated by the kidneys. Thus while people may thrive on a 
diet rich in protein, there is considerable evidence that vital- 
ity, endurance and resistance to disease are better attained 
with a diet in which the fuel foods (carbohydrates and fats) 
predominate. 

Nitrogen cannot be stored to any extent and is constantly 
eliminated in the urine as urea and other nitrogenous suh- 
Btancea. When the diet-nitrogen corresponds in amount with 
the eliminated nitrogen, the metabolism of nitrogen is bal- 
anced, or in a state of equilibriimi. If too small a quantity 
of nitrogenous food is taken it does not compensate for the 
■waste of body nitrogen which is inseparable from life. The 
same thing occurs when for any reason the food nitrogen ia 
not absorbed, or is eliminated without being utilized. This 
eoDdition of nitrogen starvation is characteristic of under- 
feeding, wasting diseases, defective assimilation, etc. Con- 

■ Tersely equilibrium between food nitrogen and excreted ni- 

\ tiogen represents good nutrition, health and energy ; for while 
nitrogen cannot be permanently stored, it is possible for a 
balance to he maintained over long periods. It was once 
taught that increased elimination of nitrogen was due chiefly 
to the waste of tissue incidental to prolonged and severe 
mnscular or nervous effort ; at a later period, however, it be- 
came apparent that this waste was comparatively little, and 
constant for the individual regardless of the amount of muscu- 
lar exercise, so that the urea nitrogen depends chiefly on the 
amount of diet nitrogen. The loss of nitrogen in wasting 
disease, starvation, etc., is, however, extensive ; so that in con- 
Talescence the body is able to store some nitrogen. 

Nitrogen retention is greatly facilitated in all cases by a 

i liberal supply of carbohydrates and fats. 

Nitrogen metabolism can hardly be studied in the ordinary 

I patient, on account of the number and variety of tests which 



4 




i 



56 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 
1 that o 



I 



must be accurately made, so that our only guide is the r 
of Bcientifie investigation of tlie amounts of nitrogen required 
under given conditiona, and the general well-being of the 
subject. If Tveight is maintained, along with a healthy state 
of functions, the ration in question is suitable for the sub- 
ject tested. If the individual be in the growing period, the 
ration shoidd be such that the growth rate is normal. If 
he be a convalescent, the recovery of the original weight should 
be constantly progressive. Of late years, however, the era- 
phaais on nitrogen values alone has been largly superseded 
by greater attention to total fuel values as being of greater 
practical worib. It is known that a relatively small and 
easily obtained quantity of nitrogen is sufficient to repair waste 
in the average individual, but the food required for producing 
energy is very significant in amount. With a liberal supply 
of carbohydrates and fats, the ordinary daily waste of nitrogen 
in one adult may be reduced as low as 3 to 4 grams daily 
{corresponding to 20 to 25 grams of protein). 

To insure a full supply of nitrogen, and to maintain ni- 
trogen equilibrium at a higher level than the bare maintenance 
requirement, considerably more than this amount is commonly 
taken. From 80 to 100 grams of protein per day is re- 
garded as a liberal supply for an average man (weighing 70 
kilograms or 154 lbs,) on an ordinary mixed diet of suitable 
energy value. 

THZ ESEBQT VAITTE OF FOOD 

In Liebig'a time it was recognized that animal heat was 
generated by carbohydrates and fats, but the physiologists of 
that day did not realize that these were the nutrients which 
furnished the body with energy for its activity. They 
thought that all muscular work was done at the expense of 
nitrogenous material. It has taken many years for us to 
realize folly that animal energy in all its forms is derived 
primarily from carbohydrate material, secondly from fata, and 
thirdly from proteins only in bo far as they yield combustiU& 
non-nitrogenous bodies. 



ENERGY VALUE 57 

Energy may be defined as the power to do work. This 
force manifests itself in difiEerent ways. It may be latent, 
or inactive; or it may be active in various forms, such as 
heat ; chemical or electrical energy ; or mechanical movement, 
which we call work. It may be changed from one of these 
forms into another without loss. The most convenient way to 
measure energy is by transforming it into heat. A unit has 
•been devised to express different amounts of heat, correspond- 
ing to a definite number of work units; this is called the 
calorie. One calorie represents the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water one degree 
Centigrade. This is called the large calorie, which is com- 
monly used in determining the energy value of food. The 
small calorie is -nAnr of a large calorie. 

Energy cannot be created. We must put into any machine 
as much force as we expect to get from it. Even in the most 
eflBcient machine we cannot recover all of the energy in the 
form of useful work; some of it is always transformed into 
heat, owing to friction. This is true even in the body, which 
is a most eflBcient machine, but here much of the waste energy 
in the form of heat is turned to good account in maintaining 
the body temperature. 

The source of energy for the body is food, just as much as 
the source of energy for the engine is coal. Plants store up 
the sun's energy, it is transferred to animals which eat the 
plants, and eventually man gets it by eating the plant and 
animal foods. The amount of energy in any given food ma- 
terial is measured by the amount of heat which it will pro- 
duce. In general, this is the same, whether the food be 
burned outside or inside the body, the total result in any case 
depending upon the amount of the food-stuff which is utilized 
by the body. 

An instrument devised for the measurement of heat is 
called a calorimeter. To determine the fuel value of any 
food material outside of the body, a given amount is placed 
in a calorimeter, where it is burned in an atmosphere of pure 
oxygen, in a vessel surrounded by water. The heat generated 



58 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Taisea the temperature of the water, and the change is ob- 
served with a very delicate thermometer. From this the 
total heat evolved is calculated. To determine the fuel value 
of this material within the body, the average amount which 
is lost in digestion, or which is not completely oxidized before 
excretion, is deducted from the fuel value outside the body. 
The result is the physiological fuel value. Many years ago, 
Eubner determined averages for proteins, fats, and carbohy- 
drates from experiments on dogs. In recent times, further 
experiments made in this country on human subjects by Prof. 
Atwater and his associates have modified these factors some- 
what. The following are therefore accepted as the average 
energy values of food in the body to-day : 

1 gram of Protein yields 4 Calories ^^H 

1 gram of Fat yUlds 9 Calories ^^H 

I gram of Carbohj'drate . . . yields 4 Calories ^^^| 

SETEBUIITATIOIT OF SBEBOT VALUE OF FOOD 

To determine the energy value of a given amount of any 
food, it la necessary to know frst its composition, i, e., the 
percentages of protein, fat, and carbohydrate present. Tables 
are available giving the results of many analyses, as in Bulle- 
tin 28, Office of E.\periment Station, United States Dept. of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C, " The Chemical Composi- 
tion of American Food Materials." 

Second. From these percentages to determine the weight 
of protein fat and carbohydrate in grams, which can be ob- 
tained from a given amount of the food material. 

Third. To multiply these weights by the energy value of 
one gram of each of the three food principles. 

By way of illustration let us find the fuel value of one loaf 
of bread, weighing 18 ounces. 

(1) By referring to Bulletin 28, we find that white b^ 
(miscellaneous) yields on the average, 



0.3 % protein. 

1.2 % fat. 
62.7 % corbohydra 



that white b^^^ 



ENERGY VALVE 59 

(2) To get the weight of protein, fat and carbohydrate in 
grams, we must first convert the total weight of bread into 
grams, 

1 oz. =^ 28.35 grams. 
12 oz. = 340.2 grams. 
Then 340.2 X 0.093 = 31.64 grams of protein. 
340.2 X 0.012 = 4.08 grams of fat. 
340.2 X 0.527 = 179.28 grams of carbohydrate. 

(3) Multiplying the amount of each nutrient by the proper 
factor, 

31.64 grams protein X 4 = 126.56 Calories 

4.08 grams fat X 9 = 36.72 Calories 

179.28 grams carbohydrate X 4 = 717.12 Calories 

Total 880.40 Calories 

Hence the total energy value of 1 loaf of bread weighing 12 
ounces is 880.4 calories. 

To calculate the total energy value of any comhmation of 
foods, it is necessary to compute the fuel value of each in- 
gredient, and take the sum of the whole group. 

Thus for Egg Broth, page 118, it is necessary first to get 
the weight in grams of each of the following ingredients and 
then to estimate their energy value as indicated above. 

Yolk of 1 egg = 13 grams. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 15 grams. 

1 cup milk = 244 grams. 

1 tablespoon brandy = 14 grams. 

In this book the food values of all the materials used have 
been incorporated into a table, so that by reference to this 
the value of any combination is quickly made. 

Yolk of 1 egg = 48 Calories. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 60 Calories. 

1 cup milk = 169 fcalories. 

1 tablespoon brandy i = 42 Calories. 

Total energy value 319 Calories. 

^The energy value of alcohol is 7 calories per gram. It is necessary, 
therefore, to know the per cent, of alcohol in any liquor. 



60 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

To estimate the fuel value of any diet, it is simply necessary 
to compute the food value of each food material used and add 
the results together. 

To estimate the fuel value of an infant's diet, the following 
formula, adapted to the above factors for energy value from 
Friedenwald and Euhrah's Diet in Health and Disease, is 
very convenient. 

Formula for calculating the Calories of Any Period of 
Infant Feeding: 

(1) Quantity X F X 2.65 = Calories from fat. 

(2) Quantity X (S + P) X 1.18 = Calories from protein and sugar. 

The sum of 1 and 2 gives the total calories. 

Quantity = 24-hour amount in ounces. F, S and P = 
fat, sugar, and protein respectively, with percents in whole 
numbers. 

To illustrate, take a formula of the following composition: 

Protein 0.7% 

Fat 2.7% 

Carbohydrates 6.0% 

Feedings per day 9, amount at each finding 1^ oz. 

Hence Q= 13.5 oz. (9 X 1%) 
F= 2.7 oz. 
S= 6 oz. 
P= 0.7 oz. 

(1) Q. X F X 2.66 = 13.5 X 2.7 X 2.65 = 96.6 Cal. 

(2) Q. X (S + P) X 1.18 == 13.5 X (6 + 0.7) X 1.18 = 106.7 CaL 

96.6 + 106.7 = 203.3 Cal., total for day. 

THE ENERGY REaUIREHENTS OF THE BODY 

"Work goes on continually in the living body, whether asleep 
or awake, idle or active, sick or well. In the resting body it 
consists of such internal work as that of digestion and absorp- 
tion, circulation, respiration, muscular tension, and intraoellu* 
lar work. 

In youth these functions are more active than in adult life; 
in old age they are somewhat less active. 



ENERGY REQUinEMENT 
1 of s 



61 I 

from 



Por a man of average weight (154 lbs. or 70 kg.) 
,1600 to 2000 cal. daily are required to supply energy for 
these internal activities. Children require somewhat more in 
proportion to their body weight, aged persons somewhat less. 
Beyond this, the factor of most significance in determining the 
total food requirement for any individual is the amount of 
muscular activiti/. A man requiring 100 cal. per hour at 
rest may by hard work raise his energy requirement as high 
as 500 or 600 cal. per hour. For this reason a person en- 
gaged in a Bedentary occupation needs less food than one 
whose work is physical, as a farmer or lumberman. Children 
are usually more active than adults, and hence in proportion 
to their weight require more food, while inactive aged per- 
sona require very little. 

Averages obtained from many observations on the amount 
of food consumed by individuals under different conditions, 
show that the energy requirement of the active man of 70 
kgs, body weight is approximately 3000 calories. 

In making estimates for any individual, age, weight, size 
and shape, season and climate, mechanical efficiency, etc., 
must be considered as well as muscular activity. 

During the early months of life, children require about 100 
cal, per kilogram of body weight. Throughout the years of 
childhood, they need about 80 calories per kilogram. The 
adult moderately active, 35-40 cal. per kilogram, and the 
very aged, about 37 cal. per kilogram. 

" The following table, computed by Rubner, shows the daily 
heat consumption, in units of heat (calories) in an adult, 
weighing 65 kilograms or 140 lbs." 

During rest in bed. . IBOO calories or 28 Cal. per kilogram. 

In repose 2100 calories or 32 Cal. per kilogram. 

In light work 2300 calories or 33 Cal. per kilogram. 

In moderate «-ork.. 20OO calories or 40 Cal. per kilogram. 

In hard work 3100 calories or 48 Cal. per kilogram. 

The total energy requirement for individuals under differ- 
. enl conditions of age, weight, and activity are approximately 
as indicated in the following table : 



68 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

EREBQT FEB DAT 

CONDITIOBS IN CALOaiES 

Man at light work 2500-2800 Cal. 

Man st moderate work 3000-3504) CaL 

Man at very hard work 4000-5000 Cal. 

Woman at light work 1800-2400 Cat. 

Woman at moderate work 2400-2800 CaL 

Child from two to six 1200-1800 CaL 

Child from aLc to fifteen 1800-2500 CaL 

Aged Man 1800-2000 Cal. 

Aged Woman 1600-1800 Cal. 

The most convenient means of calculating the energy value 
ia afforded by the following table, determined for the adult 
man of average weight. 

ATEEAOE ITOBHAL OTSTTVI OP HEAT FBOU TEE BODY 



i 



JVITY CALORIES FEB 

Man at rest, Bleeping 65 Calories 

Man at rest, awake, sitting up 100 Calories 

Man at light muscular exercise 170 Calories 

Man at moderately active muscular exercise . . 290 Calories 

Man at severe muscular exercise 460 Calories 

Man at very severe muscular exercise 600 Calories 



To illustrate the use of this table, let us calculate the 
energy requirement of a woman weighing 130 lbs., under 
the following conditions : 

Sleeps 9 hours 9 X 65 = 585 Cal. _ 

Works at desk 8 hours 8 X 100 = aOO CaL ^M 

Walks or does light exercise 3 hrs 3 X 170 = 610 CaL H 

Beads or sits quietly sewing 4 hrs 4 X 100 = 400 Cal. ^1 

2295 Cal. 

Since these factors are for a man weighing 154 lbs., for a 
woman of 120 lbs. under above conditions, reduce this pro- 
portionately to her weight, 

154 : ISO : : 2S95 : X 

X^ 1788 cal. — total energy requirement for 
a woman of 120 lbs., under the above conditions. 



I 




ENERGY REQUIREMENT 63 

The protein requirement is conveniently estimated by pro- 
viding 10-12 per cent, of the day's energy in the form of 
protein. Thus for a man whose energy requirement is 3000 
cal. per day, 360 cal. from protein (12 per cent.) would 
correspond to 90 grams of protein, which would be a fairly 
liberal allowance. 

A tall thin person requires more food than a short fat 
person of equal weight. Also, the person of nervous tem- 
permanent, in whom muscular tension is high, may require 
more food than one of phlegmatic temperament. More en- 
ergy is lost in the form of heat in cold weather than in warm. 
Because of the numerous factors involved in any case, it is 
possible to calculate the absolute energy requirement only 
by rigid scientific experiment. The tables given above, how- 
ever, are a useful guide to the approximate amount of food 
required by different individuals. 

As an aid to easy estimation of the food value of any diet, 
the following tables have been introduced, showing the nutri- 
tive value of the food materials used in the recipes in this 
book, calculated for the quantities commonly required in 
cooking for individuals. 

The values for larger amounts will be easily obtained by 
simple multiplication. 



64 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

TABIE SHOWmO TEE mTTBITZTE TAITJB OP THE POOD HA- 
TESIALS USED m THE HECIFES IN THIS BOOK, CALCTT- 
LATED FOE THE aUAlTTITIES COKKONLT EEQUIEED IN 
COOEXNO SMALL POETIONS 



1 


' 


1 


1 


s 


Ots. 


Gms. 


Gms. 
33,6 


Gms. 
87,8 


Gms. 

27.7 


5+ 


!S 


!:: 


!! 


88.S 


H 


1«+ 






13.S 


mm 


1247 


32.1 


2.4 


41.0 


»■* 


4H 


«■* 


jJS;* 




3Si 


100 


O.B 


0.4 


14.0 


k 


»+ 


i:i 


s.l 


s 


;.« 


4M 


2.4 


0.3 


5.8 


.^ 


too 


ii 


1.01 




m 


lOD 


4.9 


0-6 




,.'^ 


4m' 


9:« 


^lo'.i 




3« 


100 


IB.l 


18.0 




m 


1 




IJ 





• Dried 

ApricotB, Dilfid... 
Airowioat- 



a, (edible poninj . . 



Beefjalca 

Beef Marrow 

Beef Steak, PorterhoiK. 



TopDf RaDHd... 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALVES 



FOOD MATERIAL 



aHContimed) 
Blu Pish, tedlble porKon), 

flnmdy 

Bn>n NM>, SheUed 

Bfcad, White 

■ Cninbs (dry) .,,-.,. 

• Gnm Gluleo 

C 

CuUeower 

Celery 

CheeaOt American 

' * (fresh grated) . , 

Chickn, (edible inrtiOD) 

Cboo^te. (uuwKtcDed) 

CluRi, (edible jionioB) 

dun Bonilloa 

ClMM(tO%Ala^d) 

Cod, Fredi, (idible ifortioii),.. 
Cod Fitb. Salt.' Biuidus! '.'.'.'.'. 



PRACTICAL VlHTETWa 



POOD MATERtAl, 
(Uncooked) 


1 




1 


1 


I 


it 


I 
I 


C-(Contiinied) 
Coadflued Milk, EiiflB Biosd . . . 


1 quart 

leap 

llbsp. 

Itbsp. 
Ipup 

llUp. 

IS,. 
!t 

itbsp. 

ichopp«i| 


Oil. 

t 


Gm*. 

10 

2J7 
127 

i 


(Jmj 

IS 
79 

o.e 

1,2 

2-1; 

1-0 

II 

1.0 
1.3 


ami 
J.4 

o.i 

9-0 

.oe 

«.l 

!:! 

0.1 
2%. 16 


0-4 

53.9 
7.1 

7:6 

.89 

S 

IISO.R 

KM 
2. 76 


isli 








278 




M 






Coruureh 


M 






rv, ir-,r 1- 










» 














Cncnmben. Fmh (edible non'n) 








■ D 




E 
Era. whole .VMBge 8i«e (witlioot 












F 

































ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



67 



POOD KATBRIAL. 
(Uaoooked) 



F— (Coirtiiraed) 



G«m Glvten. 



Gfaham. 

• 



»r 



Wheat (Roller Process). .^ 
« « • 



FknH.(edifalepartiaa). 



Gdatfai.' Grainilated. 
« Shiedded..* 



Gun Gluten Floor 



Itbsp. 
1 cap 
Itbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
Itbsp. 
1 cup 
Itbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 tbsp. 

Iboz 

Hbox 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

- lib. 

Bread '. 1 slice 

• i lloaf 

Biscuit Crisp 1 biscuit 



Noodles. 



Grapes, lialaga. 



Giyc Jidoe. 



H 
H^«V*«»V, (edible portion) 

m m • 

Halibut, (edible portion).. 
• * .. 

Ham, Fresh, Lean 

« « « 

Hickory Nuts. Shelled. . . . 

« « m 

• • • 



1 cup 

1 serving 

1 dozen 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 



lib. 

Kcup . 
(chopped) 
1 tbsp. 
(chopped) 



1 
I 



•I" 



Ozs. I Oms, 



8 

H 

5 

H 

5 

H 

H 
5 

H 
s 

16 



Mo 
H 



I 227 



I 



5 

16 

1 

13 

33 
4 

2 
16 



H 



H 



8 



3H 
16 

16 

3H 
16 

16 

H 



8 
142 

8 

142 

16 

241 

8 
142 

8 
142 

100 
454 



8.5 
34 
17 



8 
142 

450 
28. 
386. 
7 
100 



113 

57 
454 

14 
227 



100 
454 

100 
454 

100 
454 

454 









J 




il 


1 


1 


5-^ 


Gms. 


Oms, 


Oms, 


1.3 


0.2 


12.5 


19.0 


2.5 


174.3 


3.46 


.12 


3.48 


60 


2.3 


63 


1.3 


0.2 


6.8 


18.8 


3.2 


101.2 


1.4 


0.04 


10.2 


18.9 


0.7 


187.8 


0.5 


0.07 


6.3 


9.6 


1.3 


111.5 


0.9 


0.08 


6.0 


15.9 


1.4 


106.2 


19.3 


16.3 


• • • • 


87.5 


73.9 


• • • • 


7.8 


■ • • • 


• • • • 


31.1 


• • • • 


• • • • 


15.6 


.... 


• • • • 


3.46 


.12 


3.48 


60 


2.3 


63 


191 


7.3 


200 


8.4 


.30 


8.5 


114 


4 


116.3 


2.94 


.13 


3.15 


45 


4.2 


32.5 


2.3 


0.3 


3.6 


0.74 


0.9 


10.88 


4.5 


5.4 


65.3 


• • • • 


• • • • 


3.8 


• • • • 


• • • • 


60.0 


17.2 


0.3 


• • • • 


77.9 


1.36 




18.6 


5.2 




84.3 


23.5 




24.8 


14.2 




112.6 


64.4 




69.76 


305.6 


51.68 


6.54 


28.5 


4.83 


2.18 


9.5 


1.61 



s 



Calor-* 
ies 

57 
796 

29 
512.7 

34 
509 

58 
870 

28 
496 

28 
500 

224 
1015 



81 

125 

62 

29 
512. 
1629. 

70. 
957. 

25. 
350 

27 

55 
328 

15 
240 



72 
324 

121 
549 

227 
1029 

3234 
303 

101 



68 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 




H— (Cootinued) 
Hominy 

Honey 

J 
JcU-0 

K 
Ktunyss 

L 
Lamb Chops 

m u 

Lard 

m 

Lemon Juice, (1 lemon) 

Lettuce 

Liquid Peptonoids 

Lobster, (edible portion) 

M 

Macaroni 

Mackerel, Fresh (edible portion). . 

« « « « 

Salted 

m « 

Malted MUk, HorUck'a 

Milk. Whole 

« « 

m » 

• Skimmed 

m m 

u u 

MolMses 

m 

MttttoB Chops 



Itbsp. 
1 cup 

Itbsp. 



Ibox 
1 serving 



Iqt. 



Iserving 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
lib. - 

3 tbsp. 

Ihead 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 

Itbsp. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



I 



Ozs. 

H 
8 

1 

3.5 . 
.6 

34.4 



3H 
16 

O.S 
16 

IH 
8 

16 



3H 

3H 
16 

3H 
16 

0.7 
8.6 

34.4 
0.7 
8.6 

34.4 



3H 
16 



Oms. 

14 
227 

28.35 



100 
16 



975 



100 
454 

14 
454 

42 

227 

15 

100 
454 



108 

100 
454 
100 
454 

14 

20 

244 
975 
20 
244 
975 

27 
317 

100 
454 





1 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Oms. 


Gms, 


Oms. 


1.2 
18.9 


0.1 
1.4 


11.2 
179.2 


.133 


• • • • 


23.02 


11.2 
1.9 


• • • • 

• « • • 


r86.4 
14.4 


2.2 


2.1 


1.5 


18.7 
84.8 


28.3 
128.3 


• • • • 

• • • • 


• • • • 

• • • • 


14 
484 


• • • • 

• • • • 


• • • • 


• • • • 


4.2 


2.3 


0.5 


5.7 


0.8 


• • • • 


2.f 


18.1 
82.08 


1.1 
4.96 


0.5 
2.24 


14.7 


1.0 


81.1 


18.7 
84.8 
16.3 
73.9 


7.1 
32.16 
17.4 
78.9 


• • • • 

• • • • 

• • • • 

• • • • 


2.3 


1.2 


9.5 


.066 
8.0 

32.2 
0.7 
8.3 

33.1 


0.8 
9.3 
39.0 
0.06 
0.7 
2.9 


1.0 
12.2 
48.8 

1.0 
12.5 
49.7 


0.6 
7.6 


• • • • 

• • • • 


18.7 
219.7 


16.0 
72.5 


33.1 
150.1 


• • • • 

• • • • 



4> 

I 

9 



CaloT' 
ies 

50 
805 

92.5 



395 
66 



328 



329 
1494 

127 
4083 

17 

36 

28 

84 
382 



392 

139 

629 

222 

1007 

59.54 

14 

169 

675 

7 

89 

358 

77 
909 

362 
1640 



MSTIMATES OF FOOD 7ALUES 



POOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


J 


1 


1 


1 


i 


i 
1 


N 


leap 

itbsp, 
Icnp 

jltap. 
leap 

ttbsp. 

(KiUd) 

Itbsp. 
1 medium 

la. 

Itbap. 

I'^ 
ltb>p. 


J 


Gms. 
14+ 
W 

1« 
127 

142 


Qms. 
ii'.i 

1,7 

36.5i 
0,9 


o.... 

u:7 

IS 
0-J 

H.7 
0,7 


Gms. 

11,3 
22 


Color. 











_ 








cm nn ni™ii 














77 




^ 














P 








































P--^ft«*JdiU=porUon, 


98 












10 




B3 



















fBACTICAL DIETSTICS 



^ 








(edik= portion). 


Binboib 












Rom 


Itbsp. 


S 


















l«rvins 






















iKTving 






i«rviag 
Icop 


StnwbHTia.(«iiblt portion) 


























■ Powdered 


iiW. 



milMATES OF FOOa TALUES 



POOD MATERIAL 

(Uncooked) 


1 


1 


1 


.III 


1 
1 


S-(COQtiLHd) 


Itbsp. 
Itbsp. 

IZp. 

ICBP 

1|U» 


Ots. 

f 

.1 

,^« 

3M 


Gmi. 

16 
100 

127 

i 

100 

100 

45» 


16,8 
1,3 


0,J 


Cm. 

100% 
U'.2 


ca;=. 








AS6 


Smetbwrf* 












T 






































» 




290 S 






W 










» 


«ldt<fi.fa.((.liMei»ftio<i) 


tai 




the T«ri. 
ba regBi 


le cei 


"only" 


s 


a thi 
mitsd 


t&bl 





CHAPTEE IV 
PEEDINa THE SICE 

OENERAL BTTLES 

In the treatment of disease there are few questions which 
have to be considered so often in the daily routine of practice 
as those which concern the proper support and nourishment of 
the patient. 

A good nurse will never exceed or depart from the phy- 
sician's instructions ; but there are occasions when her posses- 
sion of accurate, even if limited, knowledge on the subject 
of chemical and physiological action of food will enable a 
physician to give more definite directions, greatly assisting 
him in the performance of his duties, and adding to the com- 
fort and well-being of the patient. 

Physician's Directions, The nurse's directions in refer- 
ence to feeding her patient should be written, stating how 
much food may be given, its form, preparation and time of 
serving. In pneumonia, typhoid and all acute serious con- 
ditions, a record of all these details should be kept, also a 
record of the quantity of fluid and medicine taken. 

The nurse has a far better opportunity than the physician 
to judge of all the conditions of the patient's digestion, and 
his likes and dislikes for different foods, and she should not 
fail to report them to the physician in charge and under- 
stand very definitely to what extent she is to be permitted to 
humor her patient, and substitute one form of food or drink 
for another. 

It may happen from lack of care or indefinite instruction, 
that the food served will neutralize the effect of the med- 
icine, either by overfeeding, or by irregularities in feeding, 

72 



FEEDING TEE SICK 73 

which disturb digestion and interfere with the beneficial ef- 
fect of the medicine. 

Those who are ill are often allowed to drift into critical 
conditions through not being properly supplied with such 
nutritive material as their enfeebled powers can digest. 
Many have perished because those around them did not know 
how to feed them, and either withheld food altogether, or 
gave that which was unsuitable, through ignorance. Even 
when the patient is confined to bed and prevented from tak- 
ing any kind of voluntary exercise, he still requires heat and 
energy for the involuntary action of heart, lungs, and the 
other processes of living, and healthy nutrition must be pro- 
vided for by a supply of suitable food. 

Often the nurse may conscientiously serve one form of 
food ordered, offering it in spite of the patient's dislike and 
nausea with the result of half starving him. When her in- 
structions have not been specific, or have not provided for 
emergencies, she should make it a point to have them clearly 
understood at the next visit of the physician. 

To be able to carry out these instructions and offer nourish- 
ment intelligently, a thorough practical knowledge of dietetics 
is necessary, and should be the foundation of every nurse's 
training. If we wish to succeed in avoiding nausea, vomit- 
ing, loss of strength, and even loss of life, we must learn to 
offer food to the patient in a suitable form, in the quantity 
and at the times suited to his digestive power, and so adapt 
his food to his capabilities. 

This subject has been so ably .treated by Dr. Thompson 
(Practical Dietetics, 2d ed.) in his chapter, "Administration 
of Food for the Sick,'* that permission has been asked, and 
kindly, granted, to use extracts from that chapter ; also, by 
the kindness of Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards, quotations have been 
made from the article, " Nourishment in Acute Disease," from 
the " Bmnf ord Kitchen Leaflets.'* 

Feeding in Acute Disease, The preparation of food for 
those who are seriously ill is a matter of vital importance, 
for the life of the patient often depends either upon the 



74 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

maintenance of strength during the acute period of the dis- 
ease or on the recovery of power during convalescence. Since 
acute disease is accompanied by fever, we must consider the 
effect of feeding in cases where the temperature is febrile in 
character; also the amount of food, its quality and quantity, 
together with other conditions affecting its absorption. 

In acute disease accompanied by fever, what are the con- 
ditions? The body loses weight, urea is increased and car- 
bonic acid and water are excreted in larger amounts than in 
health. All of this loss is not dangerous if permitted to go 
on for a few days only, and if the amounts do not exceed 
certain limits. But to replace these losses we are at a dis- 
advantage as regards the ability of the system to assimilate 
food. In fevers the appetite is small, or may be completely 
lost. The saliva, the gastric juice, pancreatic fluid, the bile, 
are lees efScient in action or diminished in amount during 
high temperature. 

The stomach is very sensitive, in part, perhaps, through 
sympathy witli the increased sensitiveness of the nervous sys- 
tem aa a whole. If there is much hypeitesthesia of the diges- 
tive tract, as in typhoid, in peritonitis, in dysentery or gastro- 
enteritis, one must be careful not to give too much food at 
a time, and it should be in a liquid form and partially pre- 
digested. Note Typhoid Diet, page 337. 

Evidences of Digestion. Our attention should he devoted 
not only to what is put into the alimentary canal, but also to 
what goes out. For instance, if curds of undigested milk 
are found in the stools of a typhoid patient, the'quantity of 
milk should be diminished, or it should be diluted. 

Every careful observer of the sick will agree that many 
patients are starved, simply from the want of attention to 
the means which alone make it possible for them to take 
food. For example, if the patient has a fever with remis- 
sion and intermission, it is of the first importance to remem- 
ber that the ability to digest food at these intermissions is 
greater, and it is then that tlie most nourishing portions of 
diet should be given. 




FEEDING THE SICK 75 

It must be borne in mind that, contrary to the prevalent 
notion, the increase of body heat is not entirely responsible 
for the wasting of the fever patient. The emaciation is due 
partly to the inability to receive and digest the food, which 
in turn arises from the irritable state of the stomach and 
bowels and the defective secretion of the digestive fluids. 

It is the administration of unsuitable food that must be 
guarded against, and also the giving of nourishment in 
quantities and at times unsuited to the digestive powers of 
the patient. All food is changed into liquid in the process 
of digestion before it can be absorbed into the blood. Liquid 
food, therefore, is given to the very sick because it can be 
digested with the smallest amount of labor to the body. 

Predigested milk possesses the decided advantage in that 
it aids the assimilation of the milk without adding to its 
bulk, as do lime water and other substances. 

By diluting milk, stimulants and gruels too much, the 
quantity of the fluid is so great that the patient soon tires 
of swallowing, and stops before enough nourishment has been 
obtained. One should not give what cannot be digested, nor 
less than can be assimilated. So the attendant must have a 
constant watch over the condition of the patient's powers of 
digestion, and it is necessary for her to know how to choose 
such variety in the diet as to include both what is palatable 
and what will afford a proper amount of nourishment. 

The Appetite. As the appetite of the sick often requires 
tempting, the greatest pains should be taken in the prepara- 
tion of the invalid's food. The lack of desire for food may 
be due merely to defective cooking, to the serving of meals at 
inopportune moments, or to the fact that the food selected 
is not to the patient's liking in kind, flavor, or appearance. 
A desire for food may exist, but not for the particular food 
offered, and it is the province of the nurse to differentiate. 

Punctuality in serving meals should be carefully observed, 
for an appetite ready at the accustomed hour may fail if the 
meal is delayed. There is much unconscious habit in re- 
gard to eating. Time for cooking food should be carefully 



I 



76 PRACTICAL DIETETICS U 

considered with regard to the time for eerving. Many foods 
properly cooked are spoiled by standing, which if served 
promptly would be delicious. The rule of serving food at 
stated intervals should be observed for the conscious as well 
as the unconscious or semi-unconscious patient. 

Quality and Quantity of Food. All foods supplied should 
be as pure and fresh as possible. Hence for the sick it is 
desirable to select the best quality obtainable. 

The amount should be regulated by the physician. When 
this is not done, care must be taken, on the one hand to see 
that sufficient is eaten, which often necessitates tempting the 
appetite; and on the other to avoid overindulgence if the 
patient is voracious or has a fancy for certain articles of 
which large amounts are likely to be harmful. 

A well man, lying quietly in bed, requires from IGOO fo 
3000 calories per day, and if the body Is being wasted by 
disease, he may need a great deal more. During conva- 
lescence, if the body has lost weight, food must be given 
for rebuilding, in addition to the ordinary daily need. 

Temperature of Food. The temperature of the food served 
is exceedingly important, as it has a marked influence upon 
digestion. As a rule, foods to he served "hot" should 
neither he served lukewarm nor too hot. Serve in hot dishes 
and cover in transit. Cold food should be served neither 
lukewarm nor ice cold. Under many conditions food at ex- 
treme temperatures interferes wifh digestion and absorption. 

Details in Feeding, The patient should be saved from 
thinking as well as from physical exertion, and it is unwise 
to ask him what he would like to eat, for it is often the un- 
expected that pleases. Personal idiosyncrasies should be con- 
sidered ; for some foods easy of digestion, if repugnant to 
the patient, may prove nauseating and be rejected or disturb 
digestion. 

Only a small quantity of food should be given at one time 
80 that the digestive organs may not be overtaxed. It is 
much better to do this often than to give too much at one 
time. A tablcspoonful of nourisliment everj' half hour may 



FEEDING THE SICK 77 

be retained and digested, and do the patient good, when if 
a larger amount were given the stomach would reject it. 

The majority of weak patients are unable to take food of 
any solid kind before eleven o^clock in the morning, yet 
before that time comes they are apt to become exhausted. 
This would not be likely to occur if a spoonful of some liquid 
nourishment or stimulant ordered by the physician were given 
every hour or two, from the early morning up to the time 
for taking the solid food, which the patient would then 
probably be able to do by noon. 

All noise in the preparation of food and smell of cook- 
ing should be kept from the sick room. The nurse should 
never eat her meal or taste the patient's food in his presence, 
and should always have a cheerful manner and a cleanly, 
tidy appearance. These things have much effect upon the 
patient's appetite. 

Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth, When possible, it is 
well to bathe the patient's face and hands before offering a 
meal. The mouth should be rinsed each time after eating 
with pure water, or diluted borax water (two teaspoonfuls 
to a txmibler of water). This takes away the after-taste of 
the food and he is less apt to tire of it. 

The mouth should be kept thoroughly cleansed, for if the 
lips are allowed to become parched and sour, the patient will 
refuse nourishment which he might otherwise take. When a 
patient cannot rinse his own mouth it must be frequently 
cleansed by the nurse with a swab of fresh cotton, fastened to 
a small flexible stick. A tongue scraper made of a whale- 
bone bent to a loop may be used before serving the food; 
thus the taste nerves will be uncovered and the appetite im- 
proved. 

Time and Position for Feeding. When the patient is first 
allowed to sit up for half an hour, it is well to utilize this 
time for giving the principal meal of the day, which is likely 
to be eaten with more relish, and perhaps better digested in 
consequence. If the patient is only allowed to partially sit 
np in bed, the nurse should see that the position is com- 



I 



78 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

fortable, and that the food tray does not cramp the anna and 
legs, taking care that no crumbs get into the bed. 

Sleep and Feeding. The awakening of a patient to take 
nourishment depends upon his need of the nutriment and 
upon his ability to go to sleep again. In serious cases it 
Bhould be given at stated intervals if the patient drops to 
sleep easily after taking it. Some patients, however, are an- 
noyed by being awakened and cannot sleep again. In such 
cases it may be that the sleep will be more beneficial than 
food. 

Feeding the Helpless Patient. The effort of sitting up 
may become fatiguing to the invalid and so destroy hia appe- 
tite before the meal is half done, or he may not be able to 
feed himself, or to raise his head. In such eases the dif&- 
culty can be obviated by placing the hand beneath the pillow 
and raising both together gently. 

In feeding fluids at these times always serve in small 
tumbler, not more than two-thirds filled; see that swallows 
are not taken during inspiration, and tliat each mouthful is 
swallowed before another is offered. In case the head cannot 
be raised, food may be given by means of a glass tube or a 
feeding cup. 

Feeding ihe Unconscious Patient. The feeding of uncon- 
scious patients demands especial care. They should be given 
only liquid nourishment, and fed with a spoon, or through 
a catJieter. If the jaws are set, a medicine dropper may be 
utilized; not over a teaspoonful should be given at once, and 
the nurse must be sure it is swallowed before she gives more. 
In the case of comatose children, or young infanta, the nour- 
ishment may be poured into the nostril in place of the mouth. 
Feeding with the stomach tube is sometimes resorted to, when 
nasal feeding is not feasible- 
forced Feeding. Forced feeding consists in introducing 
various liquid foods, as milk, eggs, meat-juice or extracts 
into the stomach by way of the nose or directly through the 
mouth by means of a stomach tube. This is seldom required 
of the nurse, but is usually done by the physician himself. 



FEEDING TEE SICK 79 

This method is employed when the unconscious patient expe- 
riences difficulty in swallowing; in gastric irritability; when 
a patient is unable to take sufficient food, owing to loss of 
appetite and disgust for food; and also in case of a refrac- 
tory patient who refuses to eat. 

Nasal Feeding, In nasal feeding a nasal tube is em- 
ployed or in case of infant a catheter. Have either well 
oiled and passed gently through the nose into the oesophagus 
and then into the stomach. Before pouring in the food wait 
a moment to see that the tube has not entered the larynx. 

Use of the Stomach Tube. The jaws must be kept open. 
In children without teeth, the finger may be employed; in 
grown persons a mouth gag or a roller bandage may be held 
between the teeth. The tube should be moistened, passed 
into the pharynx and thence rapidly into the stomach. If 
these two precautions are not observed, contraction of the 
muscles may occur, preventing the tube from entering the 
oesophagus. In passing the tube into the oesophagus, hold 
it well back from the end. When the tube is satisfactorily 
introduced, place a funnel in the free end and pour liquid 
nourishment slowly down the side of the funnel until the 
tube is filled, and the air in tube is expelled; this care pre- 
vents the air in tube entering the stomach. In removing the 
tube, it should be withdrawn rapidly in order not to excite 
vomiting. In some cases the physician orders the stomach 
washed out before introducing the food. When it is neces- 
sary to take special precautions to prevent regurgitation of 
the food, the ribs may be tickled to prevent contraction of 
the diaphragm. 

Rectal Feeding. This form of alimentation is necessary 
when the stomach cannot retain food. It is based on the fact 
that the rectal mucous membrane, while it possesses no di- 
gestive faculty, is able to absorb certain classes of nutriment. 
These include among the carbohydrates, sugars; among pro- 
teins, the native albumin as well as the end products of pro- 
tein digestion. The latter are believed to be much more 
absorbable than the first products (albumoses and peptones). 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



80 



Soluble starch (dextrin) is doubtlesa absorbable, but un- 
changed starch and fats can hardly be taken up. It is prob- 
able that finely emukified fats if thrown well up into the 
colon are absorbable to some extent. Although we cannot 
understand why certain subatances nourish the patient, since 
they are theoretically not absorbable, they seem in some man- 
ner to be utilized, even when merely thrown into the rectum. 
As far aa possible we should employ substances which we 
know positively to be capable of absorption; but in rectal 
feeding for a long period it is soraetimea necessary to use a 
great variety of formulfe, making it out of the question to 
confine ourselvea to the few articles which are theoretically 
best suited for the purpose. 

The rectum may be intolerant to almost any form of enema; 
even if retained for some time, it may be rejected without 
apparent change. ITcder the most favorable circumstances, 
at least three-fourths of the quantity injected will come 
away with the regular evacuation of the bowels. The amount 
of energy actually supplied must be far below the theoretical 
demands of the body. In some cases, it is of course possible 
to nourish the patient partly by the mouth and partly by 
rubbing a small amount of fatty matter into the skin. Some 
of the moat available substances, such as solutions of sugar, 
are naturally irritating to the rectum. 

It ia possible to keep a patient alive for weeks and even 
months by rectal feeding, but in many cases this resource for 
one reason or another fails outright to do what is expected of 
it. Hence we cannot be too careful as to technique and 
choice of material used. Of natural substances, milk and 
eggs have been very freely used. The albumin and sugar in 
the milk are probably utihzed. In an emulsion of eggs, the 
native albumin is doubtless the constituent which nourishes 
the patient. We cannot be sure of the absorption of the 
fatty matter of the milk and eggs. Both these substances are 
relatively non-irritating. Peptonized milk an"™'"-" ™"'" i" 
some cases. It is best to carry on the j 
long period, until the end products of ' 




FEEDING TEE SICK 81 

tones themselves being often irritating. Solutions of glncose 
and dextrin are nseful, alone or combined with other in- 
gredients. For example, eggs may be combined with glucose, 
or plain milk with dextrin. For variety, any of the pre- 
digested foods, whether these come in solution or dried, and 
even bouillon and beef-tea may be tried. Starch emulsion 
is soothing in the rectum and may be utilized if first mixed 
with diastase. 

The technique is most important. The rectum should 
first be cleaned by a high injection of decinormal saline 
solution, after which no attempt should be made to give a 
nourishing injection for at least an hour. It may be neces- 
sary for the physician to treat the rectum if hemorrhoids or 
great irritability exists. The patient^s hips should be raised 
higher than the head to aid in retaining the enema. A tube 
specially designed for the purpose should be used, the enema 
being at body heat and allowed to flow in by gravity from 
a funnel. The amount injected should never exceed 8 oz. 
and the enema cannot be repeated oftener than every 6 
hours unless the quantity is small. As a rule, the smaller the 
enema the more frequently it may be used. After an injec- 
tion the patient should be kept perfectly quiet. 

Stimulants like black coffee and whisky are often given by 
the rectum, the whisky requiring dilution with two parts 
water. Wine is sometimes used for the purpose. Stimulat- 
ing and nutritive enemata may be combined. 

Injections of normal salt solution, seltzer water, etc., are 
sometimes used to supply the body with fluids and quench 
thirst. 

Useful additions to enemata comprise a little salt or sodium 
bicarbonate or a little starch emulsion; at times a few drops 
of laudanum are of value in aiding retention. 

One should not be discouraged by early failure, as it is 
poBsible for tolerance to be established. 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOKHITLAE FOB KECTAL FEESISQ 

I, Peptone-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. e. milk . =170 CaL 

60 0. c. peptone = 100 CaU 

II. Egg-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

3 eggs =200 Cal. 

3 gms. salt. 

III. Starch-milk, Von Leube 
250 c. 0. milk =170 CaL 

70 gms, starch =^ 250 Cal. 

IV. Sugar-milk, Von Leube 
250 c. e, milk =170 Cal. 

60 gms. grape sugar = 250 Cal. 

V. Panereaa, Von X*ube 

75 gm. panereas substance :^300 Cal. 

225 gm, beef =300 Cal. 

35 gma, fat =350 Cal. 

(Thia euema, in semi-aolid condition, is introduced into the rectum 
and allowed to digest therein. A piston springe with a wide nozzle 
is required.) ^^_ 

Xutrient Enema: ^^^M 

Feptonised Milk 5 '^ t" 3 ""^ iloV^^^^M 

Whites of two eggs to six ouncesi^^f 

Above used Per Rectuoi everj* two to four hours. ^^^^ 

Vutrient Enema: ^^H 

Milk 5 i ("ne ounce) ^H 

German Seltzer H,0 3 iv ( four oiinces);'^^H 

Used in Icterus, every two hours, ^^^| 

Tfulrient Enemata — Malted Milk, ^^^| 

Dissolve from three to four heaping teaspoonfuls of Horliolrt'^^^ 
malted milk powder in one-half pint of water, to which add one-half 
teaspoontui of salt. Use at body temperature, or two or three de- 
grees higher. 

The wliite of one egg may be incorporated it desired. •> _ 

Four to six ounces used per rectum every two to four hours. ^^^J 

Btimulating Enema: ^^^H 

Elack Coffee 3 iv (four aimcwf^^^f 

Whiskey 3 ii (two ouneea^^^H 



I 



FEEDING THE SICK 

Salt Solution: 

Sodium chloride 3 i (one drAchin|| I 

Aquae O i (one pint) 

Use of Alcohol in the Sick Room. The nurse may be re- 
quired to exercise her own judgment at times in the emer- 
gency use of alcoholics in the Bick room. This neceseity is 
most likely to occur with those patients having incurable 
maladies where the question of harm to the organism or to 
■ the morals of the individual does not come into consideration. 
Consumptives often show a remarkabie tolerance to alcohol, 
and receive a notable stimulating effect from it, and it 
Bometimea happens that an eggnog or milk punch will enable 
an advanced consumptive to dress and make his toilet in the 
morning when otherwise he would liave to lie in bed. This 
is true to a less extent of some other incurable diseases. 
Severe acute or subacute conditions in which an alcoholic 
stimulant might require to be given in preference to any 
other for its emergency effect in averting unlooked-for cardiac 
failure comprise pyemia, septicemia and diphtheria. In the 
same class belong certain cases of acute poisoning due to 
mistakes or suicidal intent, such as those due to aconite and 
similar heart poisons. The propriety of giving alcoholics 
after simple collapse or syncope when no serious disease is 
present depends upon the nature of the case and whether 
other stimulants are available. 

Alcohol should perhaps never be given even in emergencies 
to subjects with neurosis or insanity or to victims of severe 
disease of the gastrointestinal organs. 

Keeping Ice in the Sick Room. The very best plan is to 
have a small refrigerator or a Japanese ice box, which may 
be had for a few dollars. If these little luxuries are im- 
possible, put the ice in a deep bowl, cover it with a plate, 
and place the bowl between two clean feather pillows. An- 
other simple way of keeping ice is to put it in a dish pan, 
cover with a tin lid, and wrap in flannel cloths and news- 
papers. It will keep a long time, as feathers, wool and 
paper are poor conductors of heat. 



J 



84 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Disinfecting Utensils, All dishes or utensils used in the 
sick room should be disinfected before being sent to the 
kitchen to be washed. A simple method is to scrape them 
clean and dip them in a basin of borax water (a teaspoonful 
of borax in a shallow bowl of water). In case of infectious 
diseases all dishes and utensils should be boiled in water 
containing 3 per cent, of sodium bicarbonate for one-half an 
hour to one hour. 



CHAPTER Y 
THE THAT 

The writer's intention is only to suggest to the nurse the 
heat and simplest methods of arranging the tray and a few 
of the important details. 

These things seem trivial, hut it must be remembered that 
the horizon of the sick room is limited, and that the patient 
who has long been confined to bed with a serious illnesa thinks 
much of his immediate surroundings. 

He may seem too ill to notice these details, whereas he is 
only too ill to speak of them, for one feeds with the eyes quite 
as much as with the lips, and by some carelessness of the 
nurse the appetite of a refined, fastidious, or nervous pa- 
tient may be wholly destroyed. 

While the natural stimulants to appetite, such as fresh 
air, exercise and enlivening companionship, are necessarily 
wanting, the taking of food is the chief event of the day, 
and too much care cannot be bestowed upon its preparation 
and aerviee, as, baa been said, the appearance and manner of 
offering have much to do with its acceptance or rejection. 
ATTKACTITE ABRANQEIIEKT OF A TRAT 

The cover and the arrangement of the tray ia of the ut- 
most importance, and the slightest departure from regularity 

1 immaculate cleanliness should be avoided. 

The tray should be covered with fine linen damask, with- 
out crease or wrinkle — the beat you can afford. Use the 
choicest silver, daintiest china and glassware ; arrange neatly 
and conveniently. Place a single rose or flower on the tray; 
a quotation, added as a variety, will often attract the atten- 
tion, and it ia well, when posaible, to divert the patienf a 
86 



86 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



mind from his ailments while eating. This can easily be 
done in these little ways, and also by the introduction of 
some cheerful and interesting topic of conversation. 






Proper Placing 


1 Plate. 




7 Knife. 


2 Cup and saucer. 




8 Fork. 


3 Bread and butter 


plate. 


9 Spoon. 


4 Individual creamei 


• and sugar. 


10 Butter spread. 


6 Tumbler. 




11 Napkin. 


6 Individual salt. 




12 Flowers. 


13 Salad knife. 




17 After coffee spoon. 


14 Soup spoon. 




18 Soup or cereal or berry plate. 


15 Oyster fork. 




etc. 


16 Salad fork. 







N.B. — The dots between numbers 7 and 2 reading from left to 
right represent numbers 13, 14, 15, and 17. Sharp edge of knife 
turned toward plate; tines of forks, bowl of spoons, all dishes and 
tumblers placed right side up. 

How to Serve, (General Eules.) The time of cooking 
food to be served, should be carefully considered in relation 



TEE TRAY 87 , 

to tbe time of serving, for most palatable food may be 
spoiled by not serving it at the proper time. 

Avoid serving too many tilings on tray. Cover tray with ft 
clean napkin or tray cover in carrying it to its destination. 
When the dietary ordered is very limited in variety, the pa- 
tient is often gratified by having bis food served in course^ 
and will eat more than if given everything at once. 

Only a small quantity should be served at one time. If 
possible, taste of all food and drinks before serving, to see 
if properly seasoned and at right temperature to serve. 

Always use separate spoon for tasting. 

Food to be served hot, should be served hot (not luke- 
warm), in heated dishes and covered in transit. 

Cold drinks and fruits are more healthful when served 
cool than ice-cold. 

When fluid foods are to be given, other receptacles should 
be nsed than those used for medicine, or the association of 
ideas may be strong enough to destroy what little appetite 
the patient has, and to even produce nausea. Do not fill 
cups or glasses full, but within one inch of the top. Por 
individual dishes, for a luncheon, or drinks to be passed 
alone, use a small tray or plate, covered with a doily or 
folded napkin. 

The finger-bowl should be placed on a small plate, cov- 
ered with a dainty doily; fill one-fourth full of water, and 
put a few rose petals or green leaves in the water and on the 
eide of the plate. 

When possible, cover all foods and drinks left standing in 
the sick room. 

The tray and all traces of a meal should be removed im- 
mediately after eating. Half-emptied cups or glasses should 
never be left in the room. 

If the patient is restricted to any especial diet, vary as 
far as possible in the preparation and serving. 

The diet of the patient should be under the supervision 
of the physician, and his directions followed implicitly, for 
much unnecessary suffering, and even death, has been the 
result of giving forbidden food. 



i 



CHAPTER VI 
METHODS OF COOKINO AND CAEE OF FOOD 

Cooking is the preparation of food for eating. 

Digestibility and Sutritive Value of cooked food depends 
to a considerable extent upon the manner in which it is 
cooked and served. The time and temperature of cooking 
should be carefully considered, in relation to the constituents 
of the food material. 

iSMct^'jw in Cooking depends in part upon the quality of 
material used, which should be the best. The measurements 
must be accurate. Care should be exercised in combining 
ingredients and one should know the effect of various modes 
of cooking on the food under consideration. Training and 
experience are necessary for success. 

Objective Points in Cooking: 

1. To improve the flavor of food, or render it more pal- 
atable. 

t?. To soften it that it may be more readily masticated and 
digi^stod. 

o. To produce chemical changes which increase digestdbil- 
itv. 

4. To destroy bacteria and parasites which may be pres- 
ent in raw fixni. 

K'^tcts cf Heat. Protein is coagulated by hot water and 
drv boat : oold water dissolves soluble proteins, especially if a 
little salt is present. 

Staivli is oouvertevl into dextrin by dry heat at a tempera- 
ture o( ;^C0* F. ; the starch granules dissolve when subjected 
to Iviling wa:er ; cold water separates starch grains. 

88 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 89 

Sugars are changed to caramel at a high temperature. 

Fats are readily decomposed by heat, with production of 
free fatty acids. 

Principles Governing the Choice of a Method of Cooking 
Any Food. These include; (1) A knowledge of the effects 
of heat and moisture on the digestibility of the articles to be 
cooked. (3) The relation of the method to the extraction of 
soluble portions of the food materials. 

Principal Cooking Processes: 

1. Boiling is cooking in boiling water {212° P.). Gentle 
boiling is as effective as rapid, and prevents waste of fuel if 
gas is used. 

2. Stewing is long, slow cooking in water below the boil- 
ing point — 186° F, 

3. Steaming is cooking in heat derived from the vapor of 
boiling water. It is of two types. (1) In a steamer (moist 
heat). (2) In a double boiler {dry heat). 

4. Broiling is cooking over a glowing fire or over or un- 
der a flame. Pan broiling is cooking meat in a very hot 
frying-pan without fat, turning the meat often. 

5. Baking is cooking in an oven by means of heated air. 
Boasting is cooking before a glowing fire (direct heat). 

6. Frying is cooking in a deep hath of hot fat (tempera- 
ture ranging from 350° to 400° F.). 

Other methods are used which differ but slightly from the 
above. Braizing is a combination of stewing and baking; 
fricasseeing of frying and stewing. 

The Object of Each Cooking Process: 

1. To retain the juice as in boiling, steaming, broiling, bak- 
ing, roasting, frying. 

2. To extract the juices as in soups. 

3. Partly to retain and partly to extract the juices as in 
stews, chowders, braising, and fricasseeing. 

Cooking Utensils. A nurse should always have at hand a 
standard measuring cup, divided into thirds and fourths. 
Wooden spoons are preferable to metal ones for mi.^ng and 



I 

I 




i 



90 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

stirring, as metal spoons are too hard and may break off 
bits of enamel, and are also acted upon by acids. For beating 
egg-white, a spoon-shaped wire beater should be used; for 
the yolks, a fork or Dover egg beater is preferable. Use 
round bottom utensils when stirring is necessary during the 
cooking. Use earthen bowl and wooden spoons for mixing 
hatters, etc. A double boiler should be used when cooking 
any food that burns easily (as milk) ; also when foods are to 
he cooked at low temperatures. 

Blending Ingredients. There are several ways of accom- 
plishing this purpose. 

1. Stirring. This ia simple mechanical mixing in which 
a mass of ingredients is made uniform. 

2. Beating or wliipping consists in so manipulating a soft 
mlKture as to incorporate the air, A spoon or special device 
is so applied that the bottom of the mixture is steadily lifted 
to the top. 

3. Polding-in is a term applied to the method of intro- 
ducing beaten white of egg slowly and gently into a soft 
mass, 80 as to render it light, the air being retained. 

4. Cutting is used only in making pastry. Two knireB are 
worked in opposite directions until the shortening ie well 
incorporaied in the flour. 

Suggestions as to Methods of WorJdng. If a fire and oven 
are to be used these must he first of all attended to that they 
be in readiness when needed. All the cooking apparatus 
should be laid out and the materials to be cooked measured 
in preparations for mixing. It is advisable to be economical 
in the use of utensils. Thus one measuring cap may some- 
times be used in succession for dry materials, liquids and 
fats, in the order named. A receptacle should be at hand 
for soiled spoons and other utensils employed in measuring 
or mixing. It is desirable to work as much as possible in a 
small space; thus the measuring and mixing should be done 
on a single table if possible. All soiled dishes should be put 
to soak ; at odd moments they may he washed, dried and put 
away. The purpose underlying these principles is that the 



I 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 91 

nuTBe may go into the family kitchen and prepare food for 
the patient without in the least interfering with the regular 
kitchen work of the household. 

Ice Box and Contents. The ice hox should he maintained 
in a state of ahsolute cleanliness. This is not difficult in 
the case of a simple portable refrigerator without a drain 
pipe, which may be flushed out daily with hoiling water con- 
taining borax or ammonia (half ounce to the gallon). How- 
ever, in the larger kinds of portable refrigerators, and in the 
set ice boxes where a tube is necessary for drainage, all the 
compartments and shelves should be washed with soap and 
hot water at least once in a week, while every day loose par- 
ticles of food which have escaped from dishes, etc., should 
be carefully removed; or if advisable in certain cases, the food 
and shelves may be removed and wiped or brushed off. The 
drainage pipes must be cleaned with a brush made for the 
purpose at least once a week. It is advisable to sprinkle 
borax on the shelves after cleaning. Certain pungent articles 
can not he kept in an ice hox without flavoring other foods 
such as butter, milk, etc. 

Institutions, if large enough, may use a refrigerating plant, 
which does away in part with the handling of ice; or by the 
aid of , an ice machine, superintendents may assure them- 
Belves of the purity of all ice designed for internal use. 

The drain pipe of an ice box should not, for obvious rea- 
sons, communicate with the sewerage system. 

The temperature in the food compartments is sometimes 
much warmer than one would imagine; and it is desirable 
io get some idea of what the temperature fluctuations are by 
using a thermometer. The reading can hardly go lower than 
40° F. and should not be over 60° F. 

The ice cake should be wrapped in cloth or paper, not only 
for economy's sake hut because it may be dirty inside or out- 
side. No food should be placed in the box while warm, for 
the sudden cooling may set up undesirable changes. Canned 
food should not be placed on ice in the opened can, but in a 
fresh receptacle. iiVhen possible, each article should be 



1 



92 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

placed in a separate container, or wrapped in paper. Mois** 
tnre in the ice box, while unavoidable, etiould be kept down 
by wiping walla and shelves dry at intervals. 

CARE OF rOOIX 

The care of food between the time of purchase and cooking, 
and that of cooking and serving ia highly important. The 
fact that spoiled food represents an economic loss, important 
as it is, is much less significant than the fact that not only 
spoiled food, but good food which is contaminated with germ 
life, is a possible source of disease. 

Exposed food, i, e., food exposed to dust, insects, etc., be- 
comes contaminated with disease germs without necessarily 
becoming spoiled or in any way oilensive to the senses. The 
most crisp salad or luscious fruit may be covered with dan- 
gerous microorganisms. 

By far the most frequent and abundant forms of micro- 
organisms, which grow at such rate as quickly to become vis- 
ible to the naked eye, are molds. These are not on the whole 
harmful to man, and their chief significance is that they give 
to foods a bad flavor and cause a certain amount of decompo- 
sition. These organisms attack food which is stored in dark, 
damp places, chiefly cellars, and although themselves gen- 
erally harmless, they are likely to be associated with poisonous 
bacteria. Certain butchers hang steaks until they become 
covered with mold, but the mold does not make the meat ten- 
der and highly flavored, for these changes are due largely 
to the bacteria of putrefaction which are also present, thriv- 
ing under the same conditions as does the mold. 

In case of substances which have a natural protective cov- 
ering, it is highly important that this should not be broken 
in handling. Thus when fruits and vegetables are bruised, 
the pulp is quickly attacked by microorganisms and local 
changes occur, resulting in economic waste, since such articles 
can only be partly utilized. 

■For further inrornistioii, DDte " Care ol 
BnUelin, No. 3T5 U. 8. Dept. of Agiicultur 




I 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 

Foods should therefore he stored in places which admit 
plenty of sunlight and air, which will antagonize the growth 
of molds and putrefactive bacteria. Ice, by producing tem- 
peratures unfavorable for the growth of microorganisms, is 
a valuable aid in this sort of cleanliness. Some use of s( 
and water is necessary, hut the benefits are partly lost if the 
shelves, etc., are left damp. In cellars repeated whitewashing 
is the most available resource for cleanliness. 

Food should be bought in the freshest and cleanest state, 
should be placed in clean containers, and handled with clean 
hands. Foods sliould always be washed if there is any suspi- 
cion of contamination. The cases of violent cholera morl 
which often follow the use of unripe apples, and even of ripe 
fruit like cherries, are believed to be due not to the irritating 
acids present in fruit, hut to the presence of a well-known 
bacterium mingled with the dust which collects on such fruit. 
To be absolutely on the safe side, ail fruits and vegetables 
should be eaten cooked, but this would deprive us of salads 
and fresh fruits and berries which form so large and pleas- 
urable a part of the average dietary. It has been found by 
experience that if celery, greens, asparagus, berries, etc., are 
washed repeatedly in cool or tepid water, they can at last 
become quite clean without losing their delicate flavor and 
consistency. As long as a particle of grit is present there ia 
of course possibility of contamination by living organisms. 
They should be washed, therefore, until the wash water ia 
clear. This is a rule which applies to all food that is to 
bfi eaten raw. With cooking such caution is not absolutely 
necessary. Potatoes, etc., are washed before boiling for 
esthetic reasons only. 

The worst cases of food poisoning, known as ptomaine 
poisoning, are mysterious in character, and are not entirely 
preventable. Chemical substances not usually formed in sim- 
ple decomposition are responsible. They may be present alike 
in raw, cooked, or frozen foods, and in fresh and preserved 
foods. In some cases there is abundant evidence of extreme 
decomposition. The use of rotten eggs in cookery by bakers 




94 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

has cansed severe ptomaine poisoning. Gold storage i 
are Eometiicea responsible. Fish poisoning, especially with 
Bhell fish, may Ije due to some unknown disease of the ani- 
mals themselves {although fish very readily undergo decom- 
position), and personal susceptibility is often a factor. The 
numerous cases of ice cream poisoning are usually due to 
mistakes of amateurs who do not understand the proper re- 
quirements of the art. Although we do not understand and 
cannot always foresee ptomaine poisoning, it is the more 
important that no step be neglected which will contribute In 
theory to securing clean food. Most cases occur in prolonged 
warm weather in which decomposition is favored. Sound, 
fresh food, thoroughly cooked and eaten at once could hardly 
cause ptomaine poisoning under any conditions. 

The articles which the ordinary careful nurse must think 
of in this connection are preserved foods of all kinds, shell 
fish, and milk products, the latter being of most significance, 
because milk, fresh cream, ice cream, etc., are often given 
freely to invalids. The care of miik, drinking water and 
other kinds of food is considered elsewhere. 

Special care of food in respect to fly pollution has become 
necessary since we have learned of the part played by thia 
insect in causing typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, etc. Both 
the feet and the excrement of flies are sources of contamina- 
tion. Dealers in food-stuffs in the main take but little pains 
against protecting their wares from fiy contamination. Cook- 
ing and careful washing of food to he eaten raw, are our 
principal safeguards in respect to food as it reaches the house. 
There is the added danger that food when ready for con- 
sumption will be freshly contaminated. To obviate thia, 
doors and windows of kitchens and dining rooms must be 
properly screened, and flypaper and similar precautions em- 
ployed. If typhoid is epidemic in a neighborhood, it is well 
to avoid raw food entirely, just as we avoid unsterilized water 
and milk. Flies are ranch more likely to abound in neighbor- 
hoods where manure, garbage, etc., are allowed to accumulate, 
and are more dangerous than ordinary dust. 






IIP 



i 



¥ 



I 



METHODS OP COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 95 

Dealers usually are at some pains to keep their supplies free 
from dust, though their methods are not always sanitary, 
e. g., the use of the feather duster for fruit. Dust from the 
atreeta of cities abounds in germ life. Vegetables and cer- 
tain fniits in clusters which cannot be wiped {grapes, cur- 
rants, etc.) are most likely to be dusty. Washing succes- 
sively in a number of waters will usually remove the du 
but in the tropics where many diseases are dust-borne it is not 
considered safe to cat raw grapes at all. ^\Tiether washing 
is sufficient depends on the character of the dust and the 
degree of exposure to it. 

Preserving Foods. Foods to he preserved should be per- 
fectly fresh. Yeo gives four methods of preservation: 

(1) Drying is the method most available for preserving 
peas, beans, prunes, apricots and other fruits. Milk and eggs 
may both be preserved by desiccation. 

(S) Exclusion of air may be applied in several ways. 
Smoking, which coagulates the outer surface and sterilizes 
it, serves for preserving ham, bacon, fish, etc. Packing in 
sawdust, etc., or dipping in wax preserves eggs. Canning in 
tills or jars under steam heat is used for preserving many 
Idnds of food, all air thus being forced out before the can or 
'jar is hermetically sealed. 

(3) Freezing and cold storage are used extensively for 
preserving fish, meat, jams, etc. Such foods must be cooked 
immediately upon thawing. 

(4) Antiseptics are used very extensively in food preserva- 
tion. The oldest and most widely known of these are salt, 
vinegar, alcohol and syrups. More recently a great variety 
of antiseptic chemicals have been used — benzoate of soda, 
salicylic acid, etc., etc. The advisability of their use, even 
in minute quantities, is questionable. 

Concfntraiion. Most foods can be reduced to a dry or 
otherwise condensed state without loss of nutritive value or 
danger of decomposition; and on account of the resulting 
economy in price and storage room may enter into the dietaries 
of hospitals and institutions. Sugar, oil and starch, and 




96 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

many cereal products, are already in a state of concentration. 
Powdered milk and meat, egg powder, etc., are coming more 
and more into use. Condensed milk has long been a useful 
product (see milk and milk preparations), as have dried and 
evaporated fruits and vegetables. All these products can be 
used in cookery. Their chief use as mainstays will doubtless 
be in cases of temporary shortage of fresh foods, due to 
devastating storms, " strikes " and other happenings which 
interrupt traffic. 

Predigestion of Food. Much is written against the use of 
predigeated foods as a steady diet for the well. Many starchy 
foods on the market are partially digested by heat. The 
objection seems to rest on the theory that such foods give the 
digestive fluids and muscles of Ihc digestive organs nothing 
to do, and that a sort of sliiggisiiness is set up. It cannot 
be said truthfully that these claims have ever been backed 
up by facts. ISfo one denies that thorough mastication is a 
great advantage, and with thorough mastication much of the 
starch is predigested in the mouth, or, after swallowing, in 
the fundus of the stomach. Predigested proteins are not used 
as staple foods, and as little is gained by very finely masti- 
cating flesh foods, the stomach has plenty of work in digest- 
ing animal proteins. If there ia fat in the diet the pancreas 
can never fall into a state of disuse. Hence the outcry 
against partially predigested breakfast foods does not aeem 
justified on this score. It is true, however, that their absence 
of flavor, and the soft and pulpy character of some of them 
are recognized as possible drawbacks; for semi-solid and 
pultaceous foods are difficult to masticate, while their in- 
sipidity does not flavor a flow of digestive fluids. If ad- 
herence to these fooda causes sluggish digestion and inability 
to deal with food in more natural condition, one would impute 
this not to predigestion, but to the fact that the tastelessness 
and the ease with which they may be bolted, are the real 
factors which bring about a passive state of the digestive 
functiouB. 




I METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 97 | 

I In a diet for the ill, the dyspeptic, the convalescent, etc., 
I there can be no possible objection to predigestion ; on the con- 
I trarj, it is highly desirable up to a certain extent. But just 
r as Boon as possible the patient should return to foods in the 
[ natural state, bearing in mind that a small minority of 
I cases, even the acutely ill, thrive on food which in theory 
I would be hazardous to say the least. Apparently hopeless 
I cases of sepsis have seemingly been rescued by placing pa- 
I tients on food suited only for the healthy. Such patients 
I must, however, have a natural appetite and be able to tolerate 
[ the food. 

I Adulteration of Food. " Since the passage of the National 
I Pure Food and Drugs Act, giving to the United States Gov- 
ernment authority to enforce stringent laws against the adul- 
teration and misbranding of foods which enter into inter- 
state commerce, and the more rigid enforcement of similar 
state laws which regulate these matters in many of the states, 
I B great burden has been lifted from the shoulders of the buyer. 
I This legislation has enormoualy decreased the deceptions 
" formerly practiced by some manufacturers, and since it in- 
sures that the name and description on bottle and package 
shall not misrepresent the contents, the buyer, if he knows 
what he wants, will have no difficulty in obtaining it, while 
the honest manufacturers and dealers (and they have with- 
out doubt always outnumbered the others) will also be pro- 
tected. This matter in its various aspects is taken up in 
publications of the Bureau of Chemistry ' of this Depart- 
ment." - For Table of Common Adulteration of Food- 
stuffs, note Farmer's Bulletin No, 25, of the United States 
, Department of Agriculture, Division of Chemistry, Washing- 
^ton, D. C. 

n. S, Dept. Agricullure Bnrenu of Chemialrf, BuUolin 100; Ycnr Book 

'7, p. aai. 

if, 8. Dept. AgrtcuUqre, Bureiu ot Chemiitrj, Bullelia S25, p. 19. 




CHAPTER Yn 
XEASUBES AND WEIOHTS 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success in 
cooking. 

All dry ingredients, such as flour, meal, confectioners' or 
powdered sugar, should be sifted before measuring. 

Mustard, cream of tartar, soda, and salt should be stirred 
before measuring, to lighten and free from lumps. 




A Standard Keasuriii^ Cup 

A standard measuring cup contains one-half pint and is 
divided into fourths and thirds. 

To measure a cupful of dry material, put in the ingredients 
by spoonfuls, round slightly and level with back of case- 
knife, being careful not to shake cup. 

A cupful is measured level with the brim. 

A heaping cupful is measured level, with two taUe spoon- 
fuls extra added. 

A scant cupful is measured level, with two table spooiifals 
taken out. 

All ingredients measured by the tablespoon or teaspoon aro 
measured level, 

9S 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



To measiire a spoonful, fill the spoon and level it ofE with 
the back of caee-knife. 



I 




To measure a half-epoonful, first measure a spoonful and 
then cut it in halves, lengthwise. 

To measure a quarter-spoonful, measure a half-spooaful 
and divide it into half, crosswise, allowing a little more for 
tip of spoon. 

A aaltspoon is one-fourth of a level teaspoon. 

A speck is a little less than one-eighth of a teaspoon. 

To measure hutter, lard, and other solid fats, pack solidly 
into spoon or cup and level with knife. 

When recipe calls for one tablespoon (or so) of butter 
mfilted, measure before melting. When recipe calls for one 
tableBpoon (or so) of melted butter, measure after melting. 

TABLE OF MEASiniES AND WEIQHTS 
4 saltupoons = 1 teaspoon, tap. 

3 tesspoons ^ 1 tablespoon, tbsp. 

4 tabteapoona = i cup or i gill. 

16 tablcapoons {dry ingredients) ^1 cup, c. 

16 tableepoona (liquid) ^1 cup. 



100 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

2 gilla ^ 1 cup. 

2 cups ^1 pint. 

2 pints ^1 quart 

4 quarts ^1 gallon. . 

2 tablespoons butter ^ 1 t 

1 tablespoon melted butter =1<: 

4 tablespoons flour r=l[ 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar ^It 

2 tablespoouB liquid ^ 1 r 

2 tablespoons powdered lime := 1 ounce. 

1 cup of stale bread crumbs =2 ounces, 

1 square Baker's unsweetened chocolate .... ^^ 1 ounce. 
Juice of one ]enion = (about) 3 tnblcapoonB. . . 

6 table spoons liquid ^1 nineglaasfoL 

4 cups of sifted flour ^ 1 pound. 

2 cups of butter (packed solid) ^1 pound. 

2 cups of finelj chopped meat (packed solidly) ^ 1 pound. 

2 cups of granulated sugar ^1 pound. 

2g cups of powdered sugar =1 pound. 

28 cups brown sugar =^1 pound. 

2i cu]is oatmeal = 1 pound. 

43 cups rolled oats = 1 pound. 

fi to 10 eggs = 1 pound. 

1 cup of rice =^ i pound. 

APOTHECARIES WEIGHTS 

20 grains ^ 1 scruple, 3 

3 scruples ^1 dracbm, 3 

8 drachms (or 480 grains ) ^1 ounce, 3 

12 ounces = 1 pound, Ih. 



APOTHECAKTES MEASITSES 

60 minims (M) = 1 fluid drachm, f 3 

8 fluid drachms := 3 fluid ounce, f J 

16 fluid ounces = 1 pint, or pt. 

. 2 pints r= I quart, qt. ~ 

4 quarts ^ 1 gallon, gal. 1 

APPROXIMATE MEASTTRES 

One feaspoonful equals about 1 fluid draehm. 

One dessertspoonful equals about 2 fluid drachms. 

One tablespoonful equals about 4 fluid drachma. 

One nineglassful equals about 2 o 

One cup (one-hall pint) equals about 8 o 



X 



f 

I 

. 1! 
pt. 

J 

rachms. 
'achnu. 

1 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



KETKIC STSTEH 

For the origin and underlying principlea of the metric 
Bystem consult any modem arithmetic (Milne's Standard, for 
example). The nurse should know the metric tables and the 
equivalents between the metric and common systems for meas- 
ures of volume and weight. She does not require linear and 
square measure, nor measures of capacity except in a few 
instances. 

The subjoined tables and equivalents will suffice. 

tabi:es 
HeaBnres of 'Volnme 
In measuring small quantities the cubic centimeter is the 
unit. 

1 cubic centimeter ^= I.O cc. 

10 cubic centimeters = lO.OO cc. 

1 cubic millimeter =^ 0.1 cc 

1-100 cubic milLmeter 1 n rail on. 

1-1000 cubic centimeter J "'^^ *^ 

KEABiraES OF WEIGHT 

In measures of weight the gram is the unit. 

1 gram 1.0 gnu 

1 decigram 0.1 gm. 

1 centierain O.OI gm. 

1 milligram O.OOI gm. 

TABLE OF EaUIVAXEITia 

Appended is a table of all the denominationB of weights 
and measures, opposite which are placed the metric system, 
with corresponding equivalents in wine measure and avoirdu- 
pois weights : 



102 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



LIQUIDS 



1 minim 

1 fl. drachm 

1 fl. oz 

4 fl. ozs. or i pint .... 
8 fl. ozs. or i pint .... 

16 fl. ozs. or 1 pint .... 

2 pints 

4 pints or i gallon . . . 
1 gallon 

1 Cubic centimeter. 

4 Cc 

15 Cc 

25 Cc 

30 Cc 

60 Cc 

100 Cc 

120 Cc 

125 Cc 

235 Cc 

250 Cc 

300 Cc 

470 Cc 

500 Cc 

950 Cc 

1000 Cc. (1 Liter).... 
4 Liters 



APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 



0.06 Cubic centi- 
metre 
4 Cc. 
30 Cc. 

118 Cc. (i Liter) 
236 Cc. (i Liter) 
473 Cc. (i Liter) 

1 Liter (1000 Cc.) 

2 Liters. 
4 Liters. 



16 minims. 
1 fluid drachm, 
i fl. oz. (4 fl. drs.) 
61 fl. drs. 

1 fl. oz. 

2 fl. ozs. 
3i fl. ozs. 

4 fl. ozs. (I pint) 
4| fl. ozs. 
8 fl. ozs. (i pint) 
Sh fl. ozs. 
10 fl. ozs. 
1 pint. 

1 pint 1 fl. 02. 

2 pints. 

2 1-10 pints. 
1 gallon. 



EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



0.061 Cc. 



3.696 

29.574 

118.295 

236.590 

473.197 

.946 

1.892 

3.785 



Cc. 

Cc. 

Cc. 

Cc. 

Cc. 

Liter. 

Liters. 

Liters. 



16.23 mins. 

1.082 fl. drs. 

4.057 fl. drs. 

6.762 fl. drs. 

1.014 fl. ozs. 

2.029 fl. ozs. 

3.381 fl. ozs. 

4.057 fl. ozs. 

4.227 fl. ozs. 

7.945 fl. ozs. 

8.453 fl. ozs. 

10.144 fl. ozs. 

15.892 fl. ozs. 

1.056 pints. 

2.007 pints. 

2.113 pints. 

1.056 gals. 



SOLIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1-500 grain 


0.00013 Gm. 
0.00043 Gm. 
0.00054 Gm. 
0.00065 Gm. 
0.001 Gm. 

(1 milligramme.) 


0.000129 Gm. 


1-150 gr 


0.000432 Gm. 


1-120 irr 


0.000540 Gm. 


1-100 ttr 


0.000648 Gm. 


1-64 er 


0.001013 Gm. 


* *'• o* ••••....»»•-•• 





MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



103 



S0IJD8 


AFFBOXIMATB 
KQU1VAT.ENT 


EXACT 

equivaij:nt 


1-50 mr 


0.0013 Gm. 
0.0016 Gm. 
0.002 Gm. 
0.0026 Gm. 
0.0065 Gm. 
0.021 Gm. 
0.065 Gm. 
0.3 Gm. 
( 3 decigrammes. ) 

1 Gm. 

2 Gm. 
4 Gm. 
3.5 Gm. 

14.2 Gm. 

28 Gm. 

56 Gm. 
113 Gm. 
225 Gm. 
450 Gm. 
900 Gm. 


0.001206 Gm. 


1-40 AT 


0.001620 Gm. 


1-32 Iff 


0.002025 Gm. 


1-26 zr 


0.002592 Gm. 


1-10 ar 


0.006479 Gm. 


1-3 inr 


0.021599 Gm. 


1 or 


0.064798 Gm. 


6 grs 

16 mrs 


0.324 Gm. 
0.972 Gm. 


30 firrs 


1.944 Gm. 


60 mrs 


3.888 Gm. 


i OE. 


3.544 Gm. 


1 oz 


14.175 Gm. 


1 OZ. 


28.350 Gm. 


2 ozs 


56.699 Gm. 


1 lb 


113.398 Gm. 


1 lb 


226.796 Gm. 


1 lb 


453.592 Gm. 


2 lbs 


007.185 Gm. 






1 milligramme 

(0.001 Gm.) 

(0.01 Gm.) 

(=3 1 . centigramme. ) 
100 milligrammes 

(0.1 Gm.) 

(^ 1 decigramme. ) 

1 fl-ramwift . 


1-65 grain. 
1-6 gr. 

li grs. 

151 grs. 

60 grs. (1 dr. Troy) 

i oz. 
g oz. 

1 oz. (437i grs.) 

2 ozs. 

3i ozs. 


0.015 grain. 
0.154 gr. 

1.543 grs. 

15.4324 grs. 
61.729 grs. 


4 Gm 


10 Gm. (1 deka- 

gramme) 

26 Gm, 


154.324 grs. 
385.81 grs. 
432.107 grs. 
1 oz. 426.7 grs. 

3 ozs. 230.7 grs. 


28 Gm 


60 Gm 


100 Gm. (1 hekto- 

gramme) 


118 Gm 


4 ozs. (i lb.) 
7 ozs. 


3 ozs. 431.3 grs. 
7 ozs. 24 grs. 


200 Gm 



■ 104 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 


SOLtDS 


APPROXIMATE EXACT 
EtJUIYALEBT KqniV ALEUT 




8 0Z9. (i lb.) 

St ozs.' 

1 lb. (7000 gra.) 

1 1-10 lbs. 

2 lbs. 

21 lbs. 


1 ozH. 410 gre. 
8 ozB. 353 grs. 

1 lb. 1 oz. 270 gre. 

1 lb. IB Dzs. 327 grs. 

2 Iba. 3 ozs. 120 gra. 










1000 Gm. (1 kilo- 
gramme or Kiio) 



TABLE rOE PEEPABina FEECEIITAOE SDLITTIOITS 

Public CbaTitiea and the Oepartmeat of Bellevne and Allied 

Hospitals 1 

One fluid ounce of water, or 480 minims, weighs 456.4 
grains. One pint of water, or 7680 minims, weighs 7300, or 
practically 7300 grains. Hence, a 10 per cent, solution, for 
instance, is one which contains 730 grains of some substance 
in 1 pint. 

The following table will show at a glance the quantity of 
any suhstance, (ly weight, required to prepare one pint of a 
solution 1 

1. To Prepare One Pint of a Solution 



I 



A " ■ ■ • 

A 

A 

A 

A " • • ■ 

A " ■••■ 

A " .-■■ 

■ Amnnd by the 

AUIed HoipiUU. 



E SCBSrANCB 



1 in 10,000 


Oraina 0.73 


(It 


1 in 5,000 




(U) 


1 in 4,000 


1.83 


ai) 


1 in 3,000 


2.44 


m\ 


1 in 2,500 


2.92 


(3) 


1 in 2,000 


3.65 


(3il| 


1 in 1,500 


4.87 


im 


1 in 1.000 


7.30 


(VI) 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



106 



REQUIRED TO CONTAIN OF ▲ CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



PER CENT. 



1 

2 

2i 

3 

4 

5 
10 
20 
25 
50 



percent 



€€ 
U 
ii 

a 
i« 
«i 

€€ 
€€ 
ii 
M 
«t 
M 
it 
ii 




TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATER TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



Grains 



a 



a 



a 



a 



ti 



a 



a 



it 



a 



a 



14.60 

18.25 

24.33 

36.50 

73.00 

97.33 

146.00 

182.50 

219.22 

292.00 

365.00 

730.00 

1460.00 

1825.00 

3650.00 



(141) 
(18i) 
(24i) 
(36i) 
(73) 
(97) 
(146) 
(180) 
(220) 
(290) 
(365) 
(730) 
( 1460) 
(1825) 
(3650) 



2. To Prepare One Fluid Ounce of a Solution 



BBQUIRED TO CONTAIN OF 
A SUBSTANCE 



0.1 per cent 

0.5 " 

1 " 

2 « 

8 « 

4 « 

5 « 

6 « 
7 

8 

9 ** 
10 « 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 



0.46 grain 

2.28 " 

4.56 

9.13 
13.69 
18.26 
22.82 
27.38 
31.95 
36.51 
41.08 
45.64 



ti 



ti 



a 



ti 



it 



it 



ii 



a 



ii 



ii 



APPBOX. 

(i gr.) 

(2i 

(4i 

(9 

(13i 
(18i 
(23 
(27i 
(32 
(36i 
(41 
(45i 



a 
ii 



a 



it 



it 



ti 



it 



it 



a 



a 



a 



And 

enough 

water 

to 

make 

1 fluid ounce. 



106 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

THERMOMETRY 

The thermometers used by the nurse in cookery, in regu- 
lating the heat of the room or in taking the patient's tempera- 
tures are chiefly of the Fahrenheit scale. Scientists employ 
the Centigrade scale in most countries. While thermometers 
are made with both scales, it is a simple matter to translate 
the ordinary Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 

The freezing point of the latter is 0°, while that of the 
former is 32° above 0. 

The boiling point of the latter is 100**, while that of the 
former is 212°. 

Hence, to change Fahrenheit to Centigrade, we subtract 
32° from 212° in order that the freezing points correspond, 
which leaves 180° F.= 100° C. A degree Centigrade is 
therefore 5/9 of a degree Fahrenheit. 

To change Centigrade to Fahrenheit, every Fahrenheit de- 
gree is 9/5 times as large as a Centigrade degree. It is also 
necessary to add 32° to the result. 

Examples: Change 212° Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
212°— 32°=J 180° X 5-9 = 100° C. 
Change 100° Centrigrade to Fahrenheit. 
100° X 9-5= 180° -f 32° =212° F. 



PART II 

BEVERAGES 

ANIMAL FOODS 

VEGETABLE FOODS 

'NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



CHAPTEH VIII 



I 



AOIS — AIBTmUTOUB — STABCHT — mSCEIXANEOUS 

A0E8, IHCLUDIKG TEA, COPFEE, CHOCOLATE. AUD COCOA, 

AND SPECIAL IfON-iniTBIIIVE BEYEBAaES 

Be7eragps aerre primarily to relieve thirst. The universal 
beverage ia water.' Other beverages answer the same pur- 
pose, because their chief constituent is water. They are also 
taken for their temperature — cold or hot; for their flavor, 
which helps to arouse or appease the appetite; or for their 
stimulating properties. Usually they have little or no energy 
value, but when made with milk, eggs, cocoa, chocolate or 
I other highly nutritive materials, they become a valuable 
I means of administering food in a liquid form. 

All beverages need to be made with much care and served 
daintily. Hot drinks should be served at a temperature of 
183-140° F. \Vhen water is used it should be freshly 
drawn, brought to a boil and used at once. This serves to 
sterilize it and also to develop a better flavor. 

Cold drinks should be given thoroughly cooled, but iced 
liquids lower the temperature of the stomach unless sipped 
very slowly, and thus tend to retard digestion. They are 
therefore better for serving between meals than with them. 
Bo not use ice in a beverage unless it is made from pure water, 
but cool by placing the receptacle on ice. TJee a separate 
spoon, and taste every beverage just before serving to be sure 
it is properly seasoned and of correct temperature. 

Never allow a drink to stand any length of time in a sick 
room. If it has to be carried any distance, be sure that it 
is covered. 



^Sm Wat«T, p*ce 2S. 




109 



110 BEVERAGES 



ACID BEVEBAOES 

Beverages made from fruit juices are cooling and refresh- 
ing, and hence especially grateful to fever patients. They 
are valuable for the organic acids, mineral matter, and sugar 
which they contain. Some of them, as lemonade and orange- 
ade, have an added value in their diuretic and diaphoretic 
action. The organic acids are useful in constipation, as they 
stimulate peristaltic action. These acids vary with the kind 
of fruit; thus, apples contain malic acid; lemons, citric acid; 
grapes, tartaric acid, etc. These acids, as elsewhere stated,^ 
occur in the form of acid salts, usually of potassium, and in 
the body are changed to carbonates, which preserve tiie alka- 
linity of the blood. Eipe pineapple juice contains a ferment 
capable of digesting proteins. 

Wash lemons and oranges, and in using the juice remove 
the seeds, as they give a bitter taste. When the rind of lemon 
or orange is undesirable medicinally, it should not be used. 

Serve acid beverages daintily in glasses or sherbet cups 
(three-fourths filled), pass on small tray or plate^ covered 
with doily, and add a few wafer crackers, or a single flower. 

Sweetening Acid Drinks. For the diabetic, sugar must be 
replaced by Sweetina. 

Whenever cold water is to be used instead of very hot or 
boiling water in preparing the drinks, it is preferable to use 
"sugar syrup ^^ for sweetening in place of sugar, which re- 
quires time for solution. 

As the acidity of fruit varies considerably with the kind, 
and with the season of year, this fact must be borne in mind 
while preparing the foregoing recipes, otherwise too much 
sugar may be added. 

SIJGAE 8YETJP, 420 CALORIES 
% cup of sugar. % cup of boiling water. 

Mix the sugar and water and stir until the sugar is di»- 

iSee Mineral Matter, p. 31. 



ACID BEVEEAGES 111 

solved. Boil slowly, without stirring, for fifteen minutes; 
cool slightly and bottle. 

LEKONASE, 137 CALOEIES 

1 lemon. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
% cup boiling water. ^ tbin slice lemon. 

Wash and wipe lemon; cut a very thin slice from middle. 
Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), add the 
sugar and boiling water; cover, and put on ice to cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. 

Cut half the slice of lemon into two pieces, and use as 
garnish in glass; or a few berries or slice of orange may be 
used. 

Note. — The quantity of sugar used depends upon the 
acidity of fruit. 

FEUIT LEMONADE 

Add fresh fruit of all kinds to strong lemonade, using boil- 
ing water for the beverage, cool, and chill on ice. 

BRAIT LEHOITADE, 20 CAIOIUES 

^/i cup wbeat braa. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups cold water. 

Allow the bran and water to stand overnight Strain, and 
add the juice of the lemon. 

SODA OR AFOILISABIS LEUOHADE, 137 CALORIES 

Juice of I lemon. % teaspoon aoda, free from 

1 or 2 tableapopna sugar. lumps. 
% cup cold water. 

Prepare the lemonade to taste, cool, add the soda, stir 
thoroughly, and drink while effervescing. 

Note, — Put glass on plate when soda is added. Water and 
soda may be omitted and ApoUinaris water substituted. 

FIHEAFPLE LEHOITADE, ISS calorieb 

'/( cup grated pineapple or juice. ^ cup boiling water. 
Juice 1 lemon. 1 cup ke-cold water. 

2 tablespoona sugar. 



1 




113 BEVERAGES 

Mix pineapple, lemon juice and sugar, and add the boiling 
water. Cool, add ice-cold water, strain and serve. 

Not«. — Canned pineapple may be used or Hawaiian pine- 
apple ]uiee. ^^ 
IBISH UOSB Z^UONASE, 25 CAXOBIEB i ^H 
14 cup Ii'ish moss. 4 tablespoons lemon juice. ^^^| 
2 cups cold water. Sugar. ^^H 

Soak, pick over and wash tbe mosa (soaking 15 minutes). 
Drain and add ttie cold water; cook in top of double boiler 
about 20 minutes or until syrupy. If it becomes too thick, 
add hot water. Strain, add the lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Eeheat and serve hot. 

Excellent for sore throat and cold on the lungs, or any 
inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

OEAFE LEMONADE, SOO CAXOKIES 
Make one cup lemonade, rather sweet, add one-fourth cup 
Welch's Grape Juice. 

EQQ LEUOKASE 
See " Albuminous Beverages " for recipe. Page 131. ■ ■ 

OBANQEADE, 197 CAXOSIES j/j^ 

Prepare as for lemonade. If orange is not very acid, add 
a little lemon juice or use less sugar, 

OBANOEASE NO. H, 77 CALOBIES 
Put two tablespoons of crushed ice in dainty glasses and 
pour the juice of one orange over it. Sweeten if desired. 

TBirlTADE, 45 CALOBIES ^^M 

^ cup grated pineapple I cup boiling water, ^^H 

Juice '/s lemon, Sugar. ^^H 

Juice '/i orange. 

Prepare fruit. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon 
sugar; allow to stand until cool. Add more water or sugar 
if necessary. Strain and serve cold. 



■ ACW BEVERAGES 113 

W PINSAPPLE nnCE, ABOUT 50 CALORIES 

I % cup Hawaiian Pineapple Juice. Crushed Ice. 

I Pour the pineapple juice over crushed ice and serve in 

I daintj glasses. This is delicious and has remedial qualities; 

I especially valuable in throat and stomach trouble. 

I LEHON WBEY, BB CALORIES 

I 1 cup hot milk. 2 tableapoons lemon juiee. 

I 2 teaapoons sugar. 

I Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water, or in a 

f double-boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook without stirring 

I Bntil the whey separates. Strain through cheese-cloth, and 

I add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small pieces 

[ of slice of lemon, 

I WIITE WHET, B4 CALOBIES 

I 1 cup Bweet milk, Vi cup sherry wine. 

Heat the milk to boiling point, add the wine, and cook with- 
out stirring until the milk separates. Strain through a fine 
strainer, and serve hot or cold. 

^ ACID PHOSPHATE 

I Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a solution of the phosphates 
, of lime, magnesia, potash and iron with phosphoric acid, 
in such form as to be readily assimilated by the system. It 
is thus a true nerve and tissue food, 
1 teaapoon Horsford's Acid Plioa- 1 cup hot or cold water, 
phate. Sugar, 

Mix the Acid Phosphate with the water and sweeten with 
sugar, if desired. 

If the above should seem too strong, or he found too atimn- 
lating, use one-half teaspoon of the Acid Phosphate. 

Note. — Horsford's Acid Phosphate can be substituted for 
lemon juice in any of the acid drinks. 

ACO PHOSPHATE WHET, 56 CALORIES 

1 cop hot milk. 1 teaspoon Oorsfotd's Acid Phos- 

2 teaspoons sugar. phate. 




114 BEVERAGES H 

Heat the milk in a email saucepan over hot water or 16 
a double boiler. Add the Acid Phosphate. Cook withont 
stirring until the wliey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth and add the sugar. If more acid is desired, add two 
or three drops of Horsford's Acid Phosphate. Serve hot or 
cold. 

CKEAU OF TABTAB DBIHK 

1 or I'/j teaspoons Cream. Lemon. ^^^| 

of Tartar. Sugar. ^^^| 

1 pint boiliDg water. ^^^H 

Dissolve the cream of tartar in the boiling water, and 

flavor with lemon and sugar. When cold strain. Take aa a 
refrigerant drink and diuretic. 

HALTED UILE AND CITEKAITT JELXT, 8S CAXOBIsa ^^| 

1 tablespoon. Ilorlitk'a Matted 1 tablespoon eurrant jeUj. ^^H 

Hilk. % eup cold water. ^^H 

y^ Clip boiling water. Cracked ice. ^^* 

Mix the malted milk powder with a little of the boiling 
water to make a smooth paste, add the jelly and the rest of 
the water, and stir till the jelly is dissolved. Add the cold 
water and ice, strain and serve daintily in glass or sherbet 
ccp, partly filled, and set on a small plate with doily. 
MALTED mLK WITH WINE, 88 CALORIES 
1 tablespoon Horliek'a Malted 1 teaapoon port or aiierry wine. 

Milk. 1 teaapoon tiiigar. 

1 eup hot water. 

Mix the malted milk powder with enough of the hot water 
to make a smooth paste, then add gradually the rest of the 
hot water, the wine, and sugar if desired. 

JZLLT AHD ICE 

With a large needle or pin, chip half a cup of ice mto 
bits as large as a pea (or use an ice-scraper). Mix with it 
about the same quantity of lemon, currant, blackberry, or 
barberry jelly. Very refreshing in fevers. Be sure ice is 
perfectly pure. 



ACID BEVERAGES 115 

GBAPE WATEE, 135 CALORIES i 

4 tablespoons grape jelly. . % cup cold water. 

^ cup boiling water. Lemon juice and sugar. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water, then add the cold 
water, season to taste. Serve ice cold. 

CTTBRAKT WATEB, lOO-ldS CALORIES i 

l^ cup currant juice or % cup cold water. 

4 tablespoons currant jelly. Lemon juice and sugar. 

^ cup boiling water. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water (put over heat a 
few moments if it does not dissolve quickly). When dis- 
solved add the cold water, sweeten to taste, and add a little 
lemon juice, if desired. Serve cold. 

APPLE, WATER, d5 CALORIES i 

1 sour apple. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wipe a rosy-cheeked sour apple, and, without paring it, 
cut it into small pieces. Add the boiling water and one table- 
spoon sugar. Cover, and let it stand till cold, then strain, 
and add lemon juice and sugar to taste. Serve cold. 

Note. — Dried apple may be substituted, or two baked ap- 
ples. 

RHUBARB WATER, 15 CALORIES i 

1 stalk rhubarb. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and cut in thin slices, leaving 
on the skin. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon sugar. 
Cover, and let stand till cold. Strain, add lemon juice and 
sugar to taste, and serve cold. 

TAMARIND WATER, 60 CALORIES 2 

2 tablespoons preserved tama- 1 cup boiling water, 
rinds. Sugar. 

Pour the water over the tamarinds and let stand one-half 
hour. Sweeten to taste, strain and serve cold. 

^Without lemon juice or sugar. 

'Without sugar. Estimated from average composition of preserves. 



116 BEVERAGES 

TAMAEIND HALTED MILK, 115 CALOEIES 

2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted • ^ cup hot water. 
Milk. ^ cup cold water, 

1 tablespoon tamarinds. Cracked ice. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and hot 
water, add preserved tamarinds and the cold water. Strain 
and chill, or add pure cracked ice. 

GEAPE JinCE 

(lyj cup = 120 Calories.) 

Partially fill a small glass with crushed ice, and add Welch's 
Grape Juice and serve. 

Grape juice is a tonic food and a medicine for the sick 
and convalescent. It may be served plain, cold or hot, or 
diluted with one-third water. It is preferable to keep and 
serve the juice very cold. The bottles may be kept* on ice 
until ready to serve. 

GRAPE LITHIA, 75 CALOEIES 

Pour one ounce of Welch's Grape Juice into a glass, dis- 
solve in it two teaspoons of sugar, and add four ounces of 
lithia water. 

GEAPE NECTAE, 2750 CALOEIES 
(About 2 Quarts.) 

Boil together one pound of sugar and one-half pint of 
water until it spins a thread ; remove from the fire, and when 
cool, add the juice of six lemons and one quart of Welch's 
Grape Juice. Let stand over night. Serve with ice water, 
Apollinaris or plain soda. 

TEA PUNCH 

Few beverages find readier favor during the hot weather 
than tea punch. To make it, pour boiling lemonade, sweet- 
ened to taste, over the tea leaves, and allow the liquid to stand 
until cold. Then strain and serve in tall glasses, with shaved 
ice and slices of lemon. 



ACID BEVERAGES 117. 

PBTTIT PUNCH, 2100 CALOBIES 
(3 Quarts.) 

2 large teaspoons tea. 3 oranges. 

2 quarts boiling water. 1 pineapple. 

1 pound lump sugar. 5 bananas. 

8 lemons. 1 pint strawberries. 

Steep the tea in the boiling water for five minutes, strain 
and add the sugar, stirring until thoroughly dissolved. Grate 
the rind of the lemons and extract all the juice. Cut the 
oranges into slices, shred the pineapple, slice the bananas 
very thin and hull the strawberries. When the tea is cold 
add all the fruit, and let stand in the refrigerator for several 
hours. Place a cube of ice in the punch-bowl, pour the mix- 
ture around it, and when well chilled serve in punch glasses. 
If desired, one cup of Maraschino cherries may be added. 

To get the best results from the pineapple, pare and remove 
the eyes, tear apart with a silver knife and fork, reject the 
core, sprinkle with sugar and let stand on ice for twelve 
hours. 

While fresh fruits are always preferable, canned berries 
and pineapples may be substituted. 

TUTTI-FEUTTI PUNCH, 2300 CALOBIES 

(3 Quarts.) 

2 quarts water. 2 tangerine oranges. 

1 pound sugar. 4 slices pineapple. 

2 lemons. 1 banana. 

4 oranges. 1 pint Maraschino cherries. 

2 dozen Malaga grapes. 

Boil together for five minutes the water and sugar. Add 
the grated rind of two lemons and four oranges, and continue 
boiling for ten minutes longer. Strain the syrup through 
cheese-cloth, and add one quart of cold water. Extract the 
juice from the lemons and oranges, strain and mix with two 
dozen Malaga grapes, cut in half and seeded, the tangerine 
oranges sliced, the pineapple shredded, the banana cut in 
slices^ and one pint bottle of Maraschino cherries with their 



118 BEVERAGES 

liquor. Add the fruit to the syrup, chill and serve same as 
Pruit Punch. 

AIBTTMINOTrS BEVEBAGES 

When a large amount of nutriment is required the al- 
buminized drinks are valuable. 

The egg is a fluid food until its albumin is coagulated by 
heat. Often the white of egg, dissolved in water or milk, 
and flavored, is given when the yolk cannot be digested, as 
30 per cent, of the yolk is fat. Egg-nog is very nutritious, 
and is extensively prescribed in certain non-febrile diseases, 
especially for the forced alimentation of phthisis and melan- 
cholia. There are occasional cases of bilious habit, in which 
eggs to be digested must be beaten in wine. But the combi- 
nation of eggy milk and sugar with alcohol, which constitutes 
egg-nog, is apt to produce nausea and vomiting in a feeble 
stomach, especially in fever. For this reason whole eggs are 
unfit for fever patients, and the whites only should be used. 

Albuminized drinks are most easily prepared cold. When 
a hot liquid is used, it must be poured very slowly into the 
well-beaten egg, stirring constantly, so that lumps of coagu- 
lated albumin do not form. 

For the Diabetic, In all the albuminous drinks substitute 
Sweetina for the sugar. The fuel value will be 60 calories 
less in every recipe than when one tablespoon of sugar is 
used. 

ENEEOY VALUE OF AN EGG 

1 medium egg (without shell) =60 Calories. 

1 white of c^g (average) =13 " * 

1 yolk of egg (average ) =48 ** 

EOO BEOTH, 319 CALO&IES i 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

Brandy or some other stimulant if required. 

Beat egg, add sugar and salt. Pour on carefully the hot 
milk. Flavor as desired, if with brandy or wine, use about 
one tablespoon. 

^Calculated with 1 tbsp. brandy. 277 Caloriea if brandy is omitted. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 119 

Note. — Dried and rolled bread crumbs may be added, if 
desired. The whole egg may be used. Hot water, broth or 
coffee, may be substituted for the milk ; nutmeg may be sub- 
(stituted for the stimulant. 

EGO-NOG NO. I, 231 CALO&IES i 

1 ^^, % cup milk. 

Speck salt. IV^ tablespoon wine or 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt ; blend thoroughly, add 
the milk and liquor. Serve immediately. 

Note. — Have eggs and milk chilled before blending. A 
grating of nutmeg may be substituted for the stimulant. A 
lemonade shaker may be used for the blending. 

EGO-NOG NO. n, 231 CALORIES i 

1 egg. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Speck salt. 

• Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt, and beat until 
creamy. Add the milk and brandy. Beat the white till 
foamy (not stiff and dry), and fold it in lightly. Serve im- 
mediately. 

JUNKET EGG-NOG, 289 CALOEIES i 
1 egg. 2 teaspoons rum, brandy, or 

1 cup milk. wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. ^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Beat white and yolk of egg separately, very light; blend 
the two. Add the sugar dissolved in the rum. Heat the 
milk lukewarm, stir into the egg mixture, and add quickly 
the tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour into small warm 
glasses, and sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top. Stand in 
warm room undisturbed until firm, and then put on ice to 
cool. This can be retained by the most delicate stomach. 

1 Without liquor. 



liquor. Add the fruit to the syrup, i 
Frnit Punch. 

ALBTrmnOTTS BEVEB H 

When & large amount: of nutiiiii 
buminized drinks are valuable. 

The egg is a fluid food until its nlli" 
heat. Often the white of egg, diseoH' 
and flavored, is given whei 
30 per cent, of the yolk is 
and is extensively prescribed in c 
ospecially for the forced alimcntatio 
cholia. There are occasioiiul cases o' 
eggs to be digested must be beaten i 
nation of egg, milk and Eugar with . 
egg-nog, is apt to produce nausea 
Btomach, especially in fever. For : ' 
unfit for fever patients, and the wl<' 

Albuminized drinks are most ea^i- 
a hot liquid is used, it must be pon 
well-beaten egg, stirring constantly, , 
lated albumin do not form. _ 

For the Diabetic. In all the alhur^ 
Sweetina for the sugar. The fueL ■ 
less in every recipe than when t 

ENXRQT TAXTTE ( 
1 medium egg (without shell) ., 
I white of egg (average?) . 
1 jollc of egg (average ) . . 

ZQQ BBOTH, 319 J 
Yolk I egg. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 

Brandj or some other ri 
Beat egg, add sugar and salt ' 
milk. Flavor as desired, if wi 
one tablespoon. 

'Cslculaled with 1 tbip. bnndr- 31 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 

Beat the egg. Heat the water and wine together bnt not 
boiling; pour onto the egg, stirring constantly; flavor with 
sugar and nutmeg. 

£0a LlillONADE, 192 CAXOBIES - 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons lemon juiee. fl 

2 tablespoonB sugar. 1 cup cold water. 

Beat the egg thoroughly, add the sugar and lemon juice ; 
pour in gradually the water, stirring until smooth and well 
mixed. Strain and serve. Two tablespoons of sherry or port 
may be added if desired. 

HALTED IHXX AUD EGQ, 120 GAIOKIES 

1 tablespoon Borlick's Malted 20 drops acid phosphate. 



1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, crushed fruit and egg and 
beat five minutes. Add the phosphate and crushed ice, blend- 
ing thoroughly. Strain and add ice water or cold carbonated 
■water, and a grating of nutmeg to flavor. , 

STOKES MIZTUBE I 

Eggs and Brandy^ 19G Calories. 

*' 8 egg yolks, 50 c. e. of brandy, 130 c, e. of aqua aurantii 
florun (sugar or syrup enough to sweeten), has consider- 
able nutritive, as well as stimulative, value, and is eligible 
for use when such, a combination is indicated." 
- QKAFE YOLK, ISO CAIOaiES 



I 



Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and stand aside while 
the white is thoroughly whipped. Add the grape juice to the 
yolk and pour this onto the whipped white, blending care- 
folly. Serve cold. Have all ingredients chilled before blend- 



I 



122 BEVERAGES 

ORAPE firlCE AND EGG, 270 CAIOEIES 
1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

^ cup rich milk, 14 cup Welch's Grape Juice. 

Beat yolk and white separately very light. To the yo 
add milk, sugar and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the 
white add a little powdered sugar and a taste of grape juice. 
Hurve on yolk mixture. Chill all ingredients before using, 
IITJILES WJKE, aSO-280 CAIOEIES 
1 Olincp Htipk finniimon. % piip sherry, port, or claret 

A illglit grating nutmeg. wine. 

^ cup. boiling water. 2 tableapoong sugar. 

1 *6g. 

Put the spices into top of a doiible boiler with the wan 
Cover and cook over hot water ten minutes. Add wine to iiie 
spiced water and bring to the boiling point. Beat the egg 
to a stiil froth, add sugar and pour on the mulled wine, and 
beat well. Serve at once. -m 

ALBUKINIZEII KILK, &S CALORIES H 

% cup milk (iterile). Salt. 4 

White 1 egg. ■ 

Put milk and white of egg in a glass fruit jar, cover with 
air tight cap and rubber band. Shake until thoroughly 
blended. Strain into gJasH. A few grains of sqH may be added 
if desired. Two teaspoons of Sanutogen addod^30 calories. 
Note, — The blending may be done in a lemonade shaker. 

ALBmUlTIZED WATER, 13 CALORIES ' h 

^ cup ice-cold water Lemon juice. |H 

<boiled and cliilled). Sugar. ^M 

. White 1 egg. ^ 

Blend as for " Albuminized Milk," serve plain or add lemon 
juice and sugar to taste. If set on ice to keep cool, shake be- 
fore serving. Two teaspoona of Sanatogen added ^30 calories. 
ALBUUIIT VATER <EOR IRFANTB), 18 CALORIES 
Albumin water is utilized chiefly in cases of acute stomach 
utestiuai disorders in which some r ■ and eaaily 



' and ea ailT 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 123 

assimilated food is needed ; albumin water is then very useful. 
The white of one egg is dissolved in eight ounces or a pint 
of water which has been boiled and cooled. — Koplik. 

ALBTJMINIZED CLAU WATEB, 18 CALOBIES 

1 cTip cold water. White 1 egg. 
Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired, add the unbeaten white of egg^ 
and follow general directions for "Albuminized Milk." 
Serve cold in dainty glasses. This is a very nutritious drink, 
and will be retained by the stomach when other nourishment 
is rejected. 

Note. — Milk may be substituted for the water. 

ALBmnNIZED OEANOE, 30 CALOBIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

Juice 1 orange. 

To the unbeaten white add the orange juice, sweeten to 
taste and blend thoroughly. Strain and set on ice to cool. 
Serve cold. 

ALBmnNIZED SHEBBY, 22 CALOBIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

% tablespoon sherry. 

Beat the white stiff, add slowly, while beating, the wine and 
sugar. Serve cold. 

Note. — Have all ingredients cold before blending. 

ALBUMINIZED 6BAPE JITICE, 40 CALOBIES i 

2 tablespoons Welch's Sugar. 
Grape Juice. Chopped ice. 

White 1 egg. 

Put in a dainty glass the grape juice, and the beaten white 
of egg and a little pure chopped ice ; sprinkle sugar over the 
top and serve. 

^Without sugar. 



124 BEVERAGES 

STABCHT BEVEBAGES 

Starchy drinks consist of cereals or cereal products^ cooked 
thoroughly in a large amount of water and strained before 
serving. Arrowroot, cornstarch, tapioca, rice and rice flour 
are nearly pure starch. Oats, barley and wheat in forms 
which include the whole grains contain besides starch some 
protein and fat> and also valuable mineral matter, especially 
phosphorus, iron, and calcium salts.^ In starchy drinks, 
these ingredients are necessarily present in small amounts; 
hence they have little energy value, unless milk or other 
highly nutritive material is added. Such drinks are of value 
when only a small quantity of nutriment can be taken. 

Principles of Cooking. As the chief ingredient is starch, 
long cooking is necessary, in water at a high temperature 
(212** F.), which softens the cellulose, and breaks open the 
starch grains, changing the insoluble starch to soluble starch 
and dextrin, so that it can be very readily digested. Time 
of cooking should be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

Digestion. The action of ptyalin is very rapid, and if these 
drinks are sipped slowly, so as to be thoroughly mixed with 
saliva, a considerable portion of starch may be changed to 
sugar before reaching the intestines. 

BAELEY WATEE, 180 CALOEIES 

2 tablespoons pearl barley. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or 
over night; in same water, boil gently over direct heat two 
hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to one 
pint if used for infant feeding, and to one cup for the adult 
Strain through muslin. 

Note. — Cream or milk and salt may be added, or lemon 
juice and sugar. Barley water is an astringent or demulcent 
drink used to reduce laxative condition. 

iSee Mineral Matter, p. 81. 



STARCHY BEVERAGES 

BARLEY WATER (INFANT FEESrNQ), 19 CAXORTES 

1 teaspoon barley tlour. 1 piut boiling water. 

2 tablespoons eold water. 




Blend flour and cold water to a Bmooth paste in top of 
double boiler; add gradually the boiling water. Boil over 
direct heat five minutes, stirring constantly, then put over 
boiling water and cook 15 minutes longer, stirring frequently. 
Older infants take the barley water in much more concentrated 
form. Barley water is used as a diluent with normal infanta 
and in forms of diarrhfea. 

Note.— For children or adults, use I/2 tablespoon barley or 
rice flour, 1 cup boiling water, Y^ teaspoon salt. 
EIGE WATER, 100 CALORIES 1 

2 Ubiespoons rice. Salt. 

3 cups cold water. Kiilc 

Wasii the rice; add cold water and soak thirty minutes, 
heat gradually to boiling point and cook one hour or until 
rice ia tender. Strain, reheat and dilute with boiling water 
or hot milk to desired consistency. Season with salt. 

Note. — Sugar may be added if desired, and cinnamon, if 
allowed, may be cooked with it, and will assist in redocing a 
laxative condition. 

RICE waxeh no. n, leo caiobzes 

3 tablespoona rice. 1 tablespoon stoned raisice. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Wash rice, put into saucepan with water and raisins ; boil 
gently for one hour. Strain. When cold serve. Sugar or 
salt may be added to taste. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in bowel trouble. 
DATUEAL WATER, 60 CALORIES 
I tablespoon oatmeal. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon cold water, 1 quart boiling water. 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt and stir into the 
boiling water. Boil three hours; replenish the water as it 



126 BEVERAGES 

boils away. Strain through a fine sieve or cheese cloth. 
Season, serve cold. Different brands of oatmeal vary consid- 
erably in the amount of water which they take up in cooking, 
and sufficient should always be added to make this drink al- 
most as thin as water. 

OATMEAL WATEB NO. U, 220 CALOBIES i 

V2 cup fine oatmeal. 1 quart water. 

Use sterile water (boiled and cooled). Add oatmeal and 
stand in warm place (covered), for one and one-half hours. 
Strain, season, and cool. Sometimes used for dyspeptics. 

TOAST WATEE, 350 CALOBIES 

1 cup stale bread toasted. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Cut bread in thin slices and in inch squares. Dry thor- 
oughly in oven until crisp and a delicate brown. Measure, 
and break into crunjibs; add the water and let it stand one 
hour. Kub through a fine strainer, season and serve hot or 
cold. The nourishment of the bread is easily absorbed in 
this way and valuable in cases of fever or extreme nausea. 

Note. — Milk or cream and sugar may be added. 

CETJST COFFEE 

Take some pieces and crusts of brown bread and dry them 
in a slow oven until thoroughly hard and crisp. Place in a 
mortar and pound or roll. Pour boiling water over and let 
soak for about fifteen minutes. This when strained carefully 
is very acceptable to invalids who are tired of the ordinary 
drinks, such as lemonade, etc. 

CEACKEE PANADA, 100 CALOEIES 2 

4 hard crackers. Sugar. 

1 quart water. 

Break crackers into pieces and bake quite brown ; add water 
and boil fifteen minutes, allow to stand three or four minutes. 
Strain off the liquid through a fine wire sieve ; season with salt 

^ E«timated on one-half the oatmeal. 
•Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 127 

and a little sugar. This is a nourishing beverage for infants 
tliat are teething, and with the addition of a little wine and 
nutmeg, is often prescribed for inralids recovering from a 
fever. 

BKEAD lAKASA, 163 CAIOKIES 
ly,, cups water. 14 cup white wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon lemon, juiee. 

2 tablespoons stale white bread Nutmeg. 
crumbs. 

Put water and sugar on to cook, just before it commences 
to boil add the bread crumbs; stir well, and let it boil three 
or four minutes. Add the wine, lemon and a grating of nut- 
meg : let it boii up once, remove from fire, and keep it closely 
covered until it is wanted for use. 

MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 

TEA — COFFEE— CHOCOLATE — COCOA Am) SFECIAI NOK-IHT- 
TRITIVE BETEHAGES 

TEA 

Source. The tea of commerce is prepared from the leaves 
of a shrub cultivated for this purpose in China, Japan, India, 
Ceylon, and other portions of Southern and Eastern Asia. 

Classes of Tm. There are two great classes of tea, the 
green and the black. The difference lies in the mode of 
preparation. Green teas are quickly dried and tired; black 
teas are allowed to ferment a few hours before drj'ing and 
firing. 

Active Principles of Tea. Tea has practically no food 
value. Its principal constituents are caifein, tannic acid, and 
a volatile oil. 

Its flavor is due to the volatile oil; its stimulating prop- 
erties to the eaffein. Tannic acid is a soluble, bitter sub- 
stance, which has a retarding effect on digestion. 

When tea leaves are placed in boiling water, eaffein is ex- 
tracted very rapidly. Tannic acid is less soluble, and there- 
fore it is possible to make tea with little of this principle by 
letting the water stand on the leaves only a short time. In 



128 BEVERAGES 

practice, the hot, but not boiling water, should stand on the 
tea from 3 to 5 minutes. The water should be soft, as 
lime in hard water tends to make tannin dissolve more freely. 
Green or mixed tea is more powerful than black tea. 

Effects of Tea. Tea is mildly stimulating and hence re- 
freshing, as it removes the sense of bodily fatigue. But the 
tannic acid retards the digestive action of the saliva and gas- 
tric juice, and tends to produce constipation. Tea is there- 
fore not suitable for persons suffering from gastric disorders. 
The caffein is over-stimulating to the nervous system of 
many persons, causing restlessness, sleeplessness and muscular 
tremors. It should not be given to children, nor to adults 
with a tendency to nervousness. If you wish to avoid the 
retarding effect of tea on salivary digestion, direct the patient 
not to sip the beverage with the meal, but to eat first and 
drink afterward; in this way time is given for the saliva 
to perform its intended functions. 

Tea is less likely to cause sleeplessness if lemon juice is 
substituted for milk. 

COFFEE 

Source, This beverage is prepared from the seeds of the 
coffee tree (Caffea arabica), which grows in many warm 
countries, though originally found in Arabia. The coffee 
berry is about the color and size of a ripe cherry, and con- 
tains two seeds placed face to face. 

Active Principles of Coffee, The active principles of cof- 
fee are essentially the same as those in tea. By the roasting 
process a volatile oil is liberated (called caffeol) to which the 
aroma is due. The caffein is chemically the same as in tea, 
and according to Hutchison (p. 310), a cup of black coffee 
contains about as large a quantity of caffein and tannic acid 
as a cup of tea. 

Effects of Coffee. Coffee has only a slight retarding in- 
fluence on salivary digestion, compared with tea, but an 
equally detrimental effect on gastric digestion. 

As a stimulant it effects more directly the central nervous 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 139 

system; the heart action is conaiderably increased in rate 
as well as strength. Indirectly, this results in an increased 
activity of the kidneys. The respiration is deepened and the 
cerebral centers escited. For this reason it often proves use- 
ful in cases of opium and alcoholic poisoning. In some per- 
sons these effects are very mild; in others, they are severe, 
producing nervousness and insomnia, and coffee should be 
withheld. It removes the sensation of fatigue, for which 
reason it is used by many nurses when on night duty. It 
ehould never be given to children. 

Coffee or tea taken with either milk or sugar alone is much 
more healthful and less likely to cause ill effects than when 
both are used. 

Frequently after operation freshly made black coffee or 
tea without milk or sugar will be retained, and in some cases 
check vomiting. Give the patient one-half teaspoonful at 
frequent intervals. 

Many preparations have been put upon the market as 
coffee substitutes, but they lack the aromatic oil and caffein 
for which it is really prized. They make, however, pleasing 
hot beverages, and served with sugar and cream, have a food 
value, 

CBOCOLAIE AITD COCOA 

Source. Cocoa and chocolate are commercially prepared 
from the seeds of the cocao tree, Theobroma cocao. The seeds 
(or beans) are contained in a pulpy fruit 7-13 inches long, 
3-5 inches in diameter, in shape intermediate between a melon 
and a cucimiber. The fruit is gathered and allowed to re- 
main in a heap to ferment a few days, when the pulp becomes 
loosened. The seeds lose some of their bitterness during this 
process, upon which the flavor of the bean largely depends. 
They are then dried in the sun, cleaned and sorted, and care- 
fully roasted. After this the thin outer husks are removed 
and sold under the name of cocoa shells. The broken roasted 
beans constitute cocoa nibs. 

Chocolate is prepared by grinding the nibs between hot 
lUers to a great degree of fineness. The presence of 50 per 



1 
« 




r 



vn 



130 ^ BEVERAGES 

cent, fat causes the mass to form a paste. This is molded 
and cooled with or without the addition of sugar and flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoa consists of chocolate deprived of a part of the fat. 
Sugar or starch or both, are sometimes added. 

Besemblance to Tea and Coffee. Chocolate and cocoa con- 
tain a volatile oil, set free by the fermentatioa process and 
further modified by roasting, to which the characteristic 
flavor is due. They also contain tannic acid, but in smaller 
amount than in tea or coffee. The stimulating principle 
of chocolate and cocoa is an alkaloid closely allied to caffein, 
called theobromin. It is less apt to induce nervous symptoms 
than either tea or coffee, but in many persons their stimulat- 
ing power is distinctly felt. 

Nutritive Value. Unlike tea and coffee, chocolate and co- 
coa liave a high food value, as shown by the following 
analysis : 

FrDtein F>t Carbo- Mineral Water Calories 

hcdratei Matter per lb. 

Chocolate 13.5% *T.l^ 26.8% 3.3% 10.3% 2730 

BreakFBBt Cocos 21.6% 23.9'/e 3T.T% T.2% i.a'}-^ 2320 

By reason of the high percentage of fat, chocolate is likely 
to cause indigestion when used to excess, or when taken in 
addition to an otherwise heavy meal. Cocoa, being less rich 
in fat, is free from this objection. 

The use of cocoa often makes milk acceptable when it 
would otherwise be refused. Hence this beverage is good 
in convalescence, if there are no digestive disturbances. When 
made weak, it can also be given to children in moderation. 

Principles of Cooking. Chocolate and cocoa both contain 
conaiderabJe starch, and hence should be boiled to be di- 
gestible. The cooked starch also serves to thicken the bev- 
erage somewhat, and to make it smoother and more homo- 
geneous. On account of the volatile oil to which the flavor 
is dne, the cooking should be continued only long enough to 
alter the starch, otherwise the oil is lost. 



_ii ^ 



I 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 



131 



TEA 

{Individual Rule.) 
[ 1 teaapoon tea. 1 cup boiling water. 

Scald the teapot, which should be silver, crockery or granite 
ware, not tio. Put in the tea, add the fresiily boiling water 
and let it infuse three to five minutes. By no means allow 
it to boil, for boiling dissipates the aroma and estracta the 
I tannin. Strain into hot cup and serve with cream or milk 
I and lump sugar, or with sugar and a slice of kmon. 
BirSSIAN TEA 
Heat cup, fill three-fourths full of boiling water and dip in 
it two teaspoons tea (put in tea-ball or fine small strainer), 
until strong enough. Serve hot with sugar and a slice of 
J lemon. 

Note. — Lemon is a good substitute for milk. The lemon 
\ prevents the headache and sleeplessness which the milk in 
1 causes to some persons. 

COFFEE UADE IN THE PEBCOIATEB 
Breakfast Coffee. After-Dinner Coffee. 

2 tablespoons coffee, Increaae quantity of coffee to 

1 eup cold water. suit the taste. 

Prom the percolator tnke out the cup with its tube, fill the 

Ppercoiator with the quantity of water desired, replace cup and 

Ktnbe (covering tube with thumb), and put in the coffee, then 

I the spreader plate and cover. Cook fifteen minutes. 

Note. — If warm or hot water is used it takes less time for 

cooking. Never use boiling water. It takes a little longer 

with the urns than with the pota. 

When heat is applied to the foot of the pot, a jet of water 
lukewarm at first, but quickly increasing in temperature as 
the pumping process goes on, is forced up through the tube, 
falls on the spreader plate; by it, it is evenly distributed over 
Lthe coffee, throngh which it percolates down into the pot 
tagain. This pumping continues until the water reaches the 
liboiling point, when water and steam together come up 
■filrough the tube. The coffee is thus ready to serve. 




132 BEVERAGES 

Coffee made in this way has a delicious aroma, i 
and an absence of the bitter taste caused by boiling. Many 
can drink coffee made in this way that cannot when made 
in other ways. 

Buy coffee in the berry and grind it fresh every day, for 
ground coffee soon loses its aroma. 

BOILEB COITEE 
(To make seven cups ot coETeg.) ^^M 

1 cup coffee. 8 cups boiling water. ^^H 
Vi ^SS ^°^ shell. 1 cup cold water. ^^| 

Scald coffee pot. Wash egg, beat slightly and add crushed 
shell, coffee and one-half cup cold water. Put into scalded 
coffee pot, add boiling wat«r and let boil up three times, 
stirring down after each time (or boil five minutes) ; then 
add one-half cup cold water. Let it stand 20 minutes where 
it will keep hot but not boil. Serve in hot coffee cups with 
cream and sugar, or hot milk may be used in place of cream. 

Note. — A favorite blend of coffee is three partB Java and 
one part Moclia. 

BOILES COFFEE ^_ 

[Individual Bule.) ^^H 

2 tablespoons colTee. % cup boiling water. ^^H 

1 egg shell OT 1 teaspoon H cup cold water. ^^| 
egg white. 

Follow general directions for blending in preceding recipe, 
Boil three minutes and keep hot 15 minutes. 

For the Diabetic. The following varieties may be used. 
Pour coffee into a slightly beaten egg or yolk ; or one teaspoon 
butter; or heavy cream. Substitute Sweetina for sugar. 

FIITERED COFFEE ^H 

(Individual Rule.) ^H 

2 tablespoons finely ground % cup bailing water. ^^H 

coffee. 

Place a piece of filter paper over a strainer and put the 
coffee in it. Hold the strainer over a hot coffee cup and pour 
the boiling water slowly over the coffee. 




MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 133 

riLTEHED COFFEE BO. II 

(Individual Rule.) 
i tablespoone coffee. 1 cup boiling water. 

Grind the coffee very fine, put it into the upper part of 
a double coifee pot and pour the boiling water through it. 
Let it stand a few minutes on the back of the stove, where 
it will not boil. Then remove it and serve hot. 



HALTED UILE COPFEE, S9 CALOBIESi 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 tablespoon ground coffee- 
Mix the malted milk powder, coffee and water, stirring 
well. Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired. 

Or one to four teaspoons of malted milk powder may be 
put in a cup and ordinary coffee poured directly upon it, 
stirring constantly. 

CEEEAL COITEE 
. (Two Cupa.) 
4 tablespoons cereal coffee. ^ saltspoon butter. 

1 pint cold water. 

Put the cereal into coffee pot; add cold water and butter, 
when it reaches the boiling point, boil 15 minutes. Al- 
ways allow 25 minutes to make cereal coffee; 10 minutes to 
come to the boiling point and 15 minutes for the boiling 
(not violent boiling). Serve with sugar and hot milk or 
cream. 

Note, — As cereal coffee is made of browned grain, it is a 
wholesome drink, and is not stimulating. Butter is added to 
keep the coffee from boiling over. 

BREAKFAST COCOA, 8S7 CALOBIES 
(To make six cups of cocoa.) 

3 tableipoona Walter Baker's 1 cup boiling water. 
cocoa. 3 cups scalded milk. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 




1 



134 



BEVERAGES 



Scald milk in double boiler. Put the cocoa and sagi 
a saucepan and elowly pour on the hot water, stirring all the 
time. Boil five minutes, add the scalded milk, beat until 
foamy with Dover egg beater to prevent formation of skin. 
Serve in heat«d cup3. One-half cup of cream is a great addi- 
tion to cocoa. 

BBEAZTAST COCOA, 197 CAIiOSIES ■^^^ 

( Individual Rule. ) ^^^H 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker'a Vi cup boiling water. ^^H 

cocoa. % cup scalded milk. ^^^| 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

Follow general directions for blending and cooking in pre- 
ceding recipe. Boiling three minutes, 

Note. — Cocoa may be served hot or ice cold, with or with- 
out whipped cream. It may be served hot, poured over the 
beaten white or yolk of egg. One-third teaspoon of brandj 
may be added if ordered by the physician. 

HALTED SULK COCOA, 83 CALOBIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon Horlicb'a Malted % cup boiling water. 

Mjik. Sugar, 

1 teaspoon cocoa. 

Mis the mailed milk powder, cocoa and water, atirringi 
Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired and serve h 
PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 1220 CA10BIE3 
(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. '^ tablespoon eomBtarcb.J 

2 ounces Walter Baker's ehoeo- 3 tablespoons sugar, 
late. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with one-fourth cup of the milk. Put 
remainder of milk in double boiler to heat. When thfl pilfc | 
is scalded, stir in the cornstarch and cook tea,, ) 
Scrape the chocolate and put it in a small t 
Bngar and water and place the s;' 




r 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 



constantly until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Add the 
hot railli and beat the mixture with egg beater until frothy ; 
or it may be poured baelf and forth from the boiler to a 
pitcher, holding high the vessel from which it ia poured 
This will give a thick froth. Serve at once. 

Note. — If you prefer not to thicken the chocolate, omit 
the cornstarch. 

Whipped cream may be served with chocolate, or it may 
be poured onto the beaten yolk of egg. 

If desired, flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

FLAIH CHOCOLATE, 305 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
: 1 cup milk. ^ tablespoon cornstarch. 

Yi ounce chocolate. % tablespoon sugar. 

Following directions for blending and cooking in preced- 
ing recipe. 

CHOCOIATE, VIEMNA STYLE, 1427 CALORIES 

(Eight Cups.) 
1 quart milk. 3 tablespoona boiling water. 



Scald milk in double boiler. Scrape chocolate and put 
sugar and water into a small saucepan ; heat over hot water, 
stirring till smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into the 
hot milk and beat well with an egg beater. Serve at once, . 
putting a tablespoon of whipped cream in each cup, and 
filling with the chocolate. 

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla, 
but in that ease use one teaspoon vanilla and three generous 
tablespoons sugar. 

CHOCOLATE UILK SHAKE, 295 CALORIES 

(ludividual Rule.) 
■S tablespoons chopped ice. '/i cup milk. 

■ S tableapoona chooulate ayrup. '/^ cup soda water or ApoIIin 
T. S tableapoona whipped cream. water. 




186 



BET m AGES 



Shake or stir well before drinking. A tablespoon ' 
vanilla ice-cream is a desirable addition. It is a delicious 
drink, even if the soda or Apollinaria water be omitted. 

A plainer drink is made by combining the sjrup, three- 
fourtha cup milk and the ice, and shaking well, 

CHOCOLATE SYBTTT — USED IIT PRECEDniG, 2093 CAIOBIES 

(One Tablespoon = 05 Calories.) ^^M 

1 ounce (3 tablespoons) Walter 1 tablespoon vanilla. ^^^^ 

Baker's soluble chocolate. 2 cups sugar. ^^^^ 

1 cup boiling water. ^^H 

Put chocolate in a saucepan and add the water gradually, 
stirring all the time. Add sugar and stir till it begins to 
boil; boil three minutes, strain, cool and add one tablespoon 
vanilla. Bottle, and keep in a cold place. 



SPECIAL NON-miTRZTIVE BEVERAGES ^_ 

riAXSEED TEA ^^M 

1 tablespoon whole flaxseed. Lemon juice to taste. ^^H 

2 cups cold water.. Sugar. ^^* 

Wash flaxseed thoronghly, put it with the cold water in a 
saucepan, simmer one hour, add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste and strain. 

Note. — If too thick, add hot water. 

Valuable in case of inflammation of the mucous membrane. 



oi^oH^n 



CimiAHOIT WATER 

1 pint boiling wBtV. 

Boil together fifteen minutes. Strain. Serve hot OIT 
Note. — Good in bowel trouble. The pure cinnamon h 

quite different from the coarse bark usually sold for c 

mon, which is really only cassia. 

FLAXSEED AND LICORICE TEA 

1 pint 1 




NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 



137 



Pour the boiling water over whole flaxseed and bruised 
licorice-root, cover and cook very slowly for four liours. 
Strain. 

LIME WATEB, 

1 tablespoon of slaked lime. 1 quart boiled or distilled water. 

Put the lime and water in a corked bottle and shake thor- 
oughly two or three times. during the first hour. The lime 
should then be allowed to settle, and after twenty-four hours 
the upper clear fluid carefully poured or siphoned off into 
a glass-stoppered bottle. Keep tightly corked, aa it absorbs 
carbon dioxide from the air. Keep in a cool place. 

BaAN TEA 

Egg ahell. 

MolaaseB, lemon juice. 

Boil tlie water and bran twenty minutes, and settle it with 
an egg shell or a little cold water. Sweeten with molasses, 
and lemon juice can be used if desired. 
SLIFPEHY ELM TEA 

2 teaspoons slippery elm pow- Sugar. 

der or piece of the bark. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pour the water upon the slippery-elm powder or bark. 
When cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice and sugar. 
This is soothing in case of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

HERB TEA 
Pour one cup of boiling water over two tablespoons of 
')B. Cover the bowl, set it over the tea-kettle and steep 
minutes. Sweeten if desired. 

aiNGES TEA 

Mix one tablespoon of molasses with one-half teaspoon of 

ginger; pour on gradually one-half cup boiling water, and 

boll one minute. Add one-half cup milk and when thor- 



^* ID 



CHAPTER IX 
ANIMAL FOODS 

The important foods derived from the animal kingdom are 

— Meat — Poultry and Game — Fish — Shell Fish — Eggs 

— Milk and Milk Products — Sweetbreads — Gelatin — Beef 
Preparations — Meat Broth and Jellies. 

Composition. Milk is the only animal food in which all 
the nutrients are represented in forms and proportions suit- 
able to supply all the needs of the body. It is properly called 
a " complete food.'' Eggs, also often called " complete food/' 
contain both body-building and fuel food-stuffs, but are in- 
complete in the sense that the amount of carbohydrate is so 
small as to be almost negligible. 

Meats are valuable primarily as sources of protein. When 
fat is present they are also useful for fuel. 

Meat extracts are chiefly valuable for their flavor and stim- 
ulating properties. 

The Proteins of animal foods are of many forms, con- 
spicuous among which are albumin of egg-white; myosin of 
muscle; casein of milk; flbrin of blood; nucleo-protein of 
liver and sweetbreads; collagen of connective tissue. 

The Fats are chiefly mixtures of stearin, palmitin and olein 
in varying proportions; small amounts of esters of volatile 
fatty acids; and compounds of fats with phosphorus in the 
form of lecithin and related substances. 

Extractives. Nitrogenous extractives are found chiefly in 
meat, to which they help to give the characteristic flavor and 
the stimulating properties. They consist chiefly of purins 
(adenine, guanine, xanthine, hypoxanthine and uric acid) ; 
and creatin and creatinin. 

Carbohydrates. The carbohydrates are represented mainly 

138 



ANIMAL FOODS 



139 



by lactOBe in milk, and glycogen in shellfiBh. As a rule, carbo- 
hydrates are negligible in animal foods. 

Water. Water is present in all animal ioods. Some ex- 
amples, showing tlie varying proportions in different kinda, 
are given in the following table : 

Ojfiter BolidB 88% 

Milk 87% 

EggB 73% 

Lean beef 75% 

Salt cod 60% 

Mineral Matter. Milk and eggs are more valuable for their 
ash constituents than any other animal foods. Calcium, iron 
and phosphorus especially, are here found in most available 
forms. 

Meats are not particularly useful in this respect. They 
are deficient in calcium, and while they contain considerable 
iron, it is not in as useful a form as that in eggs. Most of 
the ash constituents found in the body are, however, repre- 
sented in flesh foods. 

DigesUhiliiy. As a class, animal foods are easy of diges- 
tion. They contain little indigestible residue, and the nu- 
trients are very perfectly absorbed. Prepared for the table, 
they are more concentrated than most vegetable foods. Hence 
animal foods are frequently chosen for invalids and con- 
valescents, regardless of their high protein content. 

Disadvantage of a Purely Animal Diet. The chief dis- 
advantages of a purely animal diet are that it does not afford 
sufficient bulk to maintain the proper functioning of the 
alimentary- tract, owing to the lack of indigestible residue; 

■ and that it loads the body with an excess of nitrogenous ma- 
terial, which is not only unnecessary for repair, but may 
cause harm if not speedily eliminated. Furthermore, pro- 
tein raises the metabolism so that more food is actually re- 
quired than if carbohydrates and fats are used as fuel. For 
further discussion of the relative merits of animal and veg- 
^_ etable diets, see page 233. ^^^^ 




ANIMAL FOODS 



MEAT 



Ite term meat includes the flesh of all aniinala used for 
food, as beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, poultry, game. Lean 
meat is almost a pure protein food. 

Composition of Meat: 

1. Muscle fibers, composed of proteins, extractives, in- 

organic salts, and water. 

The principal protein is albumin. Muscle al- 
bumin is often called myosin. 

The extraetiyea are largely nitrogenous. 

The mineral constituents in greatest abundance are 
phosphates and potash salts. 

2. Connective tissue which binds together the muscle fibers, 

this consisting chiefly of a protein called collagen, 
which yields gelatin on boiling. 

3. Fat interspersed between the fibers. 

Nutritive Value. Meat is rich in nitrogenous elements and 
fats, and contains important salts, chiefly potassium and iron. 
It is easily cooked and improves in flavor during the process; 
requires less mastication and is more easily digested and as- 
similated than most vegetable food. 

Meat is lacking in carbohydrates, and unless a large amount 
of fat is present, is to be regarded as a source of nitrogen 
rather than of energy. Since protein burns up faster than 
other foods, and very little of the nitrogen can be retained in 
the body, it is most advantageously used in small amounts 
along with plenty of fata and carbohydrates. 

The moat important food element in meat is the myosin or 
muscle albumin. The collagen belongs to a group of proteins 
often called gelatinoida or albuminoids, because, unlike the 
albumins, they cannot sustain life alone. They are able, 
however, fn replace other proteina to the extent of two-thirds 
of the ordinary nitrogen requirement. In young animals, the 
connective tissue is soft, and the tissues are easily masticated- 
but in older animals it becomes very firm, is hard to chev 



\ 



f MEAT 141 

ind often escapes digestion unless softened or changed to 
gelatin by cooking. 

The nitrogenous extractives have no nutritive value, and 
in fact, represent products either of waste (kataboHsm) or of 
inaufScient osidation. Unless promptly excreted, they may 
cause an excess of uric acid or other disorders. However, 
they bestow upon cooked raeat its characteristic flavor and 
odor; in the stomach, act as stimulants to the secretion of 
gastric juice ; and exert on the nervous systeui a stimulating 
influence similar to that of tea and coffee. 

Digeslibiliiy of Meat. Meat is easily digested, the degree 
of ease depending upon the following conditions: (1) The 
age of the animal when killed, with the exception of veal, the 
flesh of the young animal is more easily digested, but less 
nutritious than that of the older one; (2) the time the animal 
is kept before cooking; (3) the sex; (4) the care bestowed on 
the animal during life; (5) the quantity of fat. Lean meat 
is more easily digested than fat meat. 

Absorption of Meat. Meat is very readily absorbed and 
^ves little residue in the intestines; only 3 per cent, of meat 
taken is lost in the process of digestion. 

Uncooked Meat. Ordinary raw meat is not quite as easily 
digested as cooked meat. Owing to color and flavor, it is not 
appetizing and could not be taken continuously. However, 
when chopped fine or scraped free from connective tissue, so 
ae to be easily attacked by the digestive juices, it is mora 
readily digested than cooked meat. 

Effect of Cooking Meat, Proper cooking makes meat more 
digestible, as it softens the connective tissues, thus causing a 
separation of the muscular fibers, and enabling the digestive 
juices to act more advantageously. The color and flavor are 
improved. There is a loss of weight by evaporation of water, 
and loss of mineral matter and some extractives. The loss of 
water concentrates the nutrients, and thus renders cooked 
meat proportionally more nutritious than raw meat. 



W 



143 



ANIMAL FOODS 



Objective Points and Methods in Cooking: 

1. To retain the juice as in baking, broiling, boiling and 
frying. 

2. To extract the juice as in soups. 

3. To estract and retain the juice as in atewa. 

The Principal Constituent of meat to be considered in cook- 
ing is the albumin. Note page 11, for albumin. 

Cooking of Meat. Heat penetrates meat slowly. At a tem- 
perature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit, the meat assumes a gray 
color, as a result of the decomposition of the coloring matter 
of the blood. At the same time a peculiar odor of cooking 
develops, which is due to chemical changes produced by the 
heat. 

At a temperature above 104 degrees Fahrenheit, meat be- 
gins to lose weight from the separation of water, which con- 
tains salts and nitrogenous extractives. This process contin- 
ues as the temperature rises, except that coagulable proteins 
no longer separate with tiie water. 

Coagulation of the albumin is an important factor in cook- 
ing meat, and the degree varies with the mode of cooking. 

As broiling is the preferred way of preparing meat for the 
sick and convalescent, it is taken up iu detail in this chapter. 

Broiling. In broiling, the meat is to be cooked in its own 
jniecB ; it is, therefore, evident that these must be retained as 
completely as possible. At first the temperature should be 
sufficiently high quickly to coagulate, and even harden the 
albumin on the outside surface, so as to form a layer or pro- 
tecting coat over the whole ; then the heat should be modified 
so that the interior will be raised to a temperature that will 
cook it properly without loss of its nutritive properties. 

In broiling we partially eacrifice the outer layer of the 
meat, to preserve the inner portion. 

The time for exposure will be different for different kinds 
of meat. Beef and mutton require a shorter time than lamb, 
chicken or game. 

A piece of meat properly broiled swells, and when cut 



1 



MEAT 



143 



portion flows out readily; but if cooked too long the 
albumin inside coagulates and the meat loses its moisture, 
shrinks, and becomes tough. 

Effect of Cold and Hot Water on Meat. Cold water draws 
out the soluble albumin, the extractives and some of the salts ; 
thus in soups, broths and stews where all the nutriment pos- 
sible is desired in the liquid, the meat is first put into cold 
water and gradually brought to a higher temperature. 

Hot water or dry heat coagulates albumin, and since if 
subjected to too high a temperature this becomes tough and 
indigestible, we must note carefully the proper temperature of 
cooking. Often it is necessary to sacrifice a small amount 
of albumin by exposing the meat to a high temperature for 
a short time to form a coating on the meat, in order to re- 
tain the rest of the juices more effectively, after which the 
connective tissue can be softened by gentle simmering for 
several hours. 

The Quality of Meat depends upon the age, sex, environ- 
ment, care, feeding and time of hanging after slaughtering. 
It also depends greatly on the cuts used. 

The tougher and less expensive cuts, if properly cooked, 
are as nutritious and as easily digested as the expensive cuts; 
however, tough meats take long, slow cooking to make them 
palatable, and the fuel used must be taken into consideration 
in the expense. Tough meats are muscles which the animal 
uses the moat, as tlie legs (especially the lower part), neck, 
etc.; they are more highly flavored on account of the freer 
circulation of blood tiirough these portions. Cuts from the 
neck and shin are used for soups and broths. 

The tenderer and more expensive cuts are from the muscles 
which the animal uses the least, as the upper portion of the 
hind quarter (rump, sirloin) and fore ribs. The circulation 
of blood through these portions is less and they are not as 
juicy and well flavored, nor any more nutritious than tougher 
lortions. These tenderer cuts are used for steaks and roasts. 

The remaining muscular portions of the animal (flank, 
Edioulder and brisket) are not as tender as the upper portion 




144 ANIMAL FOODS 

of the hind quarter, but juat as nutritions. Tboy need longed 
cooking and are used for atewa, braising and pot roast. 

Internal Organs or Animal Viscera used as food are the 
heart, tongue, brain, kidneya, liver, pancreaa, thymus glands 
and paunch. Although some are as easily digested as moBt 
muscle tissue, they are not as nutritious, and most of them 
produce large quantities of uric acid. 

The heart, liver and kidneys, when properly cooked, are 
not as easily digested as other meats, on account of their close 
and firm texture, and should be eaten only by those of good 
digestive powers. 

The tongue is not very easily digested, for although the 
lean meat is tender, the fat is hard, and tends to retard diges- 
tion in the stomach. 

The brain ia the most rapidly digested of meats, but a 
very high per cent, is of no use to the body. It is not suited 
for invalid diet on account of the high fat content. 

The paunch is the third stomach of the ox and called tripe. 
When properly cooked it is easily digested, but contains too 
much fat to give an invalid. 

The pancreas and thymus glands of the calf or lamb are 
sold under the name of sweetbreads. They are most easily 
digested, but give rise to uric acid. Note chapter on Sweet- 
breads. 

Beef. Beef, ia without donbt, the most valuable kind of 
meat; it is nutritious, of excellent flavor, and comparatively 
easy of digestion. 

Test for Good Beef. The flesh is firm and fine grained in 
texture ; bright red in color when first cut and upon esposure 
to air; looks juicy and well-mottled and coated with fat, and 
the fat is of yellowish color and firm. 

The best beef ia obtained from the steer of four to six years 
of age. After killing, the animal should hang for two to 
three weeks. 

Veal. The flesh of the calf is difficult of digestion and 
should only be used in the aick room for making broth. It 
should never be eaten by those of weak digestion. It con- 



, tains less albuminous substances, and more gelatin than 
beef. 

Test for Good TeaJ. It should be of a pinkish color, with 
clear, firm, white fat, tine grained and tender. The cut most 
used for broth and soup is the lower part of the leg knowft 
as the knuckle. 

Untton. Next to beef, mutton ia considered the most 
nutritious of meats, and by some considered as easily digested; 
but it is known that fat of mutton, which consists largely of 
atearin, is not as easily digested. 

The best quality of mutton comes from a sheep from three 
to five years old; after killing it should be allowed to hang 
to ripen and to develop the flavor. 

Test for Good Mutton. The flesh is fine grained, bright 
pink in color, the fat is white, hard and flaky, and the skin 
comes ofE easily. The bones of mutton are white and smooth 
and round at the joints. 

Lamb. Lamb of the right age is as nutritious as beef or 
mutton but the flesh is milder in flavor. 

Lamb is sold as " spring larab " when killed at six weeks to 
three months old. It is very expensive and comes into the 
market early in the year — February and March. Lamb is 
usually killed when a year old, and should be sold imme- 
diately after killing; in this respect it differs from beef and 
mutton, which should hang after killing to ripen and develop 
the flavor. 

Test for Lamb- Lamb can be distinguished from mutton 
by the pinkish color of the bone, and the serrated joints. 

Fork. The flesh of the pig is the most indigestible of 

all meats on account of the large percentage of fat which it 

I contains, consequently it is not used in cookery for the sick, 

\ except sometimes a small amount of ham, salt pork or bacon, 

3 the salty taste occasionally acts as a stimulant to the lost 
appetite of the convalescent. Ham and bacon are more easily 
digested than other cuts of pork, and when thin strips of 
bacon are cooked crisp they are easily digested. Bacon la 
from the flank of pork and is salted and smoked. Next to 



^1 from the fl 



« 



146 



ANIMAL FOODS 



tl 



A, 



butter and cream, bacon fat is the most easily assimilated of 
ordinary food fats. 

Ctitf of Meat. ^ The methods of cutting sides of beef, veal, 
tnulU)Uf and pork into parts, and the terms used for the difEer- 
/rfit "dulH," ns these parts are commonly called, vary in 
iUncrctit l<»(;alitio8. The diagrams show the positions of the 
(Itih'rt'Uii cuin, both in the live animaL.^nd in the dressed car- 
v.mH, iiH foinul in the markets. The lineff^of division between 
tJH! iUihlrc.ui (MitH will vary slightly, according to the usage of 
ifui 'Uu'ijl rnarl<(;ti (;vcn where the general method of cutting 
m HH Ulva indic4t(i(l. The names\pj»the ^ii^e cuts likewise 
vary inldiirtjn'ntl parts of the country. 

I Cuts of Bj^ef 

I 




k 




Pig. 5 

Fie. 5. — Diafcrams of cuts of beef: 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 3, ribs; 4, ihovl- 
der-clod; 5, fore-shank; G, brisket; 7, cross-ribs; 8, plate; 9, navel; 10. 
loin; 11, flank; 12, rump; 18, round; 14, second-cut round; 15, hind-shank. 
— (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Station*. 
United States Department of Agriculture.) Send for Bulletin for cuts ox 
Veal and Pork. <* 



> This section is quoted from Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Offlee 
of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agrieultore, Waihinf 
ion. D. 0. 



r MEAT 147 

The general method of cutting up a side of beef is illus- 
trated in Fig. 5, which shows the relative position of the cuts 
in the animal and in a droascd aide. The neck piece is fre- 
quently cut so as to include more of the chuck than is repre- 
eented by the diagrams. The shoulder-clod ia usually cut 
without hone, while the shoulder (not included in diagram) 
would include more or less of the shoulder blade and of the 
upper end of the fore-shank. Shoulder steak is cut from the 
chuck. In many localities the plate is made to include all 
the parts of the fore-quarter designated on the diagrams as 
brisket, cross-ribs, plate, and navel, and different portions of 
th^ plate, as thus cut, are spoken of as the " brisket end of 
plate " and " navel end of plate." This part of the animal is 
largely used for corning. The ribs are frequently divided 
into first, second, and third cuts, the latter lying nearest the 
chuck and being slightly less desirable than the former. The 
chuck is sometimes sub-divided in a similar manner, the third 
cut of the chuck being nearest the neck. The names applied 
to different portions of the loin vary considerably in different 
localities. The part nearest the ribs is frequently called 
" small end of loin " or " short steak." The other end of the 
Join is called " hip sirloin " or " sirloin," Between the short 
steak and the sirloin is a portion quite generally called the 
" tenderloin," for the reason that the real tenderloin, the 
very tender strip of meat lying inside the loin, is found moat 
fully developed in this cut. Porterhouse steak is a term most 
frequently applied either to the short steak or the tenderloin. 
It is not uncommon to find the flank cut so as to include more 
of the loin than is indicated in the figures, in which case the 
upper portion is called " flank steak." The larger part of the 
flank is, however, very frequently corned, as is also the case 
with the rump. In some markets the rump is cut so as to 
include a portion of the loin, which is then sold as " rump 
steak." The portion of the round on the inside of the leg 
is regarded as more tender than that on the outside, and is 
frequently preferred to the latter. As the leg lies upon the 
butcher's table, this inside of the round is usually on the 



k 



r 



148 ANIMAL FOODS 

upper or top side, and is therefore called " top round." Occa- 
sionally the plate is called the "rattle." 

Cnti of Lamb and Hntton 




or A gri culture.) 

Fig. 7 shows the relative position of the cuts in a dressed 
side of mutton or lamb and in a live animal. The cuts in a 
side of lamb and mutton number but six, three in each quar- 
ter. The chuck includes the ribs as far as the end of the 
shoulder blades, beyond which cornea the loin. The flank is 
made to include all the under aide of the animal. Some 
butchers, however, make a large number of cuts in the fore- 
quarter, including a portion of the cuts marked "loin" and 
"" chuck " in Fig. 7, to make a cut designated as " rib," and 
a pLrtion of the "flank" and "shoulder" to make a cut 
designated as "brisket." The term "chops" is ordinarily 
used to designate portions of either the loin, ribs, chuck or 
shoulder, which are either cut or "chopped" by the butcher 
into pieces suitable for frying or boiliLg, The chuck and ribs 
are sometimes called the " rack," 




I 



MEAT 149 

EHEBGT VALUE OF XEAT 
See Table, under names of meat, aa Beef — Mutton — 
mb — Bacon — Ham, etc. 
See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredientB. 

TO BEOIL STEAK 

Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat and remove a little of 
the bone. Save the flank ends for broiled meat cakes. Heat 
and gi'ease the broiler with some of the fat. Place meat in 
broiler with fat edge next to handle and broil over a clear 
fire, turning every ten seconds for the first minute, holding 
broiler near the coals that the surface may be well seared, 
thus preventing escape of juices ; then cook at lower tempera- 
ture, holding the broiler higher. 

Steak cnt one inch thick will take five minutes if liked 
rare, and eight minutes if well done; one and one-half inch 
thick, eight to ten minutes. Serve on a hot platter and sea- 
eon with butter, salt and pepper, or with Maitre d'Hotel But- 
ter. 

Note. — Steak should be cut at least one inch thick ; many 
prefer it much thicker. The most tender steaks are tender- 
loin, airloia and crosa-cut of rump. Sirloin, porterhouse (a 
thick slice of sirloin with tenderloin attached), cross-cut of 
the rump and top of the round are all good steaks. The top 
of round is solid meat and a cheap steak; is tender if cut 
from animal of right age and is the second or third cut from 
top of round. 

MAStSE D'eStEL BTTTTEB, 443 CALORIES 

14 cup butter, 1 tableapooti chopped parsley. 

^ teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Yg aaltspoon pepper. 

Rub the butter to a cream ; add salt, pepper, parsley and 
lemon juice. Spread on hot beefsteak. 

PAIT--BBOIIEI) BEEF CAKES 

Use steak from upper part of round, and with a small piece 
of Buet put all through a meat chopper; without seasoning. 



150 ANIMAL FOODS 

shape into small^ flat, circular cakes. Into saut6 pan put a 
little beef fat, when smoking hot, put in the cakes and cook 
a few moments on each side and turn; it will take about five 
minufes to cook them. Season well with salt, pepper and 
butter, and serve on hot platter. Do not add salt before cook- 
ing, as it toughens the meat. 

SCEAPED BEEF 

See " Beef Preparations ^' for recipe. Page 217. 

MTJTTON CHOPS BEOILED i 

Cut away the tough outside skin, trim off a part of the 
fat. Broil same as steak — that is, close to the glowing coals 
— for about one minute, turning every ten seconds, then cook 
at a lower temperature, holding the broiler higher. . Will take 
four or six minutes for a chop one inch thick. Mutton, like 
beef, should be served rare. Season chops with salt and 
pepper, but not with butter, as the meat is rich and fat and 
does not require it. 

LAMB CHOPS BROILED 1 

Prepare and broil same as for mutton chops, except that 
they are to be well done instead of rare, to accomplish this 
about three minutes longer cooking will be required; for a 
chop one inch thick, from eight to ten minutes. 

FEENCH CHOPS 1 

Trim a chop until there is nothing left but the round 
muscle at the thick end, with a little fat about it. Cut away 
all the meat from the bone, which will then look like a handle 
with a meat morsel at one end. Broil, and serve on hot 
platter with paper handles on chops, and garnished with pars- 
ley and peas. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS i 

Chops are fairly good pan-broiled. The same principle is 
to be followed as in the cooking over coals — that is, a high 
degree of heat at first, to sear the outside before the juice 

^ Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gms. 



MEAT 161 

escapes, and a lower temperature afterward — therefore, heat 
the saute pan or spider exceedingly hot (use no fat), drop in 
the chop, count ten and turn, repeating for about one minute, 
then draw the pan to the back or side of the stove and linish 
eooliing slowly. A chop one inch thick will be perfectly done 
in from five to seven minutes. If the pan is hot enough at 
first there will he no loss of juice or flavor. Season and serve ' 
in the same manner as broiled chops. 

CHOPS (OH BIBSS) BROILED IH PAPER i 

Prepare a chop as for pan-hroding, . Spread a piece of 
paper evenly and thickly with butter. Lay on it a nicely 
trimmed chop and double the paper with edges together. 
Fold and crease the edges on the three sides, then fold and 
crease again, so that the butter cannot run out. These folds 
should be half-an-inch wide. It will he necessary to have 
the sheet of paper — foolscap or heavy white paper — consid- 
■ erably more than twice as large as the chop. Broil over coals, 
not too near, turning often so that the temperature ■wil! not 
get so high as to ignite the paper. A chop broiled in this way 
is basted in the butter and in its own juices, and is very deli- 
cate. A chop three-quarters of an inch thick will cook in five 
minutes; one an inch thick, in eight. 

Should the paper ignite, it need not destroy the chop. 
Take it out and put into a fresh paper and try again. The 
chop should be served hot, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Note. — Birds may be broiled in the same way. 

BBOILED BACON 

Cut bacon in as thin slices as posaihle, and remove rind. 
Put in broiler, placing broiler over baking pan, and cook in 
hot oven until crisp. 

CXTRIES BACON 

Heat sautd pan very hot. Put in strips of very thin sliced 
bacon. As fat is drawn out, pour it off into cup; cook bacon 
until crisp and brown. Drain on brown paper, 

1^ I Chops iTcrBge 300 Cnl. per 100 gma. 



^ 



ANIMAL FOODS 



BIOILKD HAM 



Cat slices of ham one-third inch thick. If very salt soak 
fifteen miimtes in lukewarm water ; broil three minntes or un- 
til brown on both sides, turning frequently. A slice of boiled 
ham is very delicate cooked Id this same way, cooking it less 
time. 

BOAST HEATS 

Prepare meat, put on rack in dripping pan, dredge with 

salt and flour and cook in hot oven until the surface is seared, 

reduce the heat and cook slowly the required time. ^^^ 

Beef, rare 13 minutes per pound. ^^H 

Beef, rare (over 5 lbs.) IS minutes per pound. ^^^H 

aSATY ZOB BOAST KEATS ^H 

I tablespoon fat. I cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Pour fat from baking pan and return to pan the quantity 
desired. Add flour and when well browned pour on gradually 
the boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook five minutes, 
season with salt and pepper, and strain. 

fOULTBY AND GAM£^ 

Poultry and game are generally classed together, poultry 
being applied to domesticated birds raised for their fleah or 
eg^ or both. "Wild birds are all classed as game. 

Digestibility/. Chicken may be introduced early into the 
dietary of the convalescent, for it is one of the most easily 
digested of meats. Chicken is more easily digested than 
fowl, bnt is not as nutritious. The white meat of the breast 
is particularly free from fat, has short fibers and small amount 
of connective tissues, and is easier to digest than the dark 
meat. 

Squab, quail, pigeons and the white meat of turkey an 
easily digested. 

Dnck and goose contain a large quantity of fat aodjl 
as easily digested. 

>Far (nrther inlgrmatioB, i 
He- 182, Dept. of AsrlcnllDre 




POULTRY AND GAME 



153 



Game is comparatively easy of digestion but too highly 
flavored for most invalids. The cuts from the breast are 
the beet for an invalid. 

Test for Selecting a Chicken. The cartilage at the end of 
the breast bone must be soft and pliable, the akin smooth 
and the feet soft. There should be an abundance of pin 
feathers. Chickens are used for broiling and roasting. 

Test for Selecting a Fowl. The cartilage at end of the 
breast bone is firm, the feet are hard and dry. The pin feath- 
ers are largely replaced with long hair. An old fowl, not too 
fat, is best for broths. One from one to two years is best for 
roasting, or where the meat substance is desired. The propor- 
tion of bone to meat in chicken under this age makes them 
espensive eating. 

Principles of Cooking. In general same as for cooking of 
other meats. 

When the layer of meat over the bones is very thin, as in 
young chickens or squabs, broiling is preferable to roasting. 

An old fowl can sometimes be made tender without having 
all its flavor stewed into the broth, by cooking in a small 
amount of water in a double boiler for a long time, or in a 
firoless cooker. 

A general rule for roasting chickens or turkeys is twenty 
ininutea to the pound. Ducks and gceso, having tougher 
fibers, require a longer time for thorough cooking. 

QEITEKAL KULE FOR CLEANIITQ FOITLTIIT 

Cut off head and feet and pull out pin feathers. If the 
bird has not been drawn, make an incision below the breast 
just large enongh to admit the hand (or finger for the small 
birds). With the hand or finger, draw all the entrails out at 
one time. Care must be taken not to break them, especially 
» gall-bladder. Turn down the skin of the neck, cut off 
1 pill out wind pipe and crop. Cut 
skin of the leg a little below the 
IS against table and break 
will come out in break- 




164 ANIMAL FOODS 

ing if chicken is young. In fowls you may have to pull them 
out separately with skewer. Singe the bird by holding it 
over a tablespoon of burning alcohol, or paper (holding over 
sink). Wash by allowing the cold water to run through and 
over it, and dry well inside and out and prepare further for 
broiling or roasting, etc. 

DEY DRESSING FOR STUFFING, 1100 CALORIES 

ll^ cup stale bread crumbs. Powdered sage, marjoram, and 

Yq cup butter (not melted). summer savory. 

Salt, pepper. 

Thoroughly mix ingredients and season to taste. Fill in 
both openings of bird and sew the skin at both ends, and turn 
the skin of neck over, and fasten to back. Oysters can be 
added to dressing if desired, omitting all seasonings but the 
salt and pepper. 

TO TRUSS POULTRY 

After stuffing and sewing up the openings, draws the thighs 
close to body and secure in place by putting a skewer through 
them and the body. Fold wings under back by taking end 
of wing and place in Tinder back which fastens it. Cross the 
drum-sticks and tie with long string and fasten to the tail, 
and tie string so that it will liold thighs close to the body. 
Cut and remove string before serving the bird. 

ROAST POULTRY 

100 grams ^ about 200 Calories.^ 

Clean, stuff and truss bird and place it on its back on 
rack in dripping pan. Rub surface with salt and a butter'and 
flour mixture (mix three tablespoons of butter and two table- 
spoons of flour and stir until creamy). Dredge bottom of 
pan with flour. Place in hot oven and in about ten minutes 
the flour should be well browned, then reduce heat of oven and 
cook more slowlv. Baste everv ten minutes with one-fourth 
cup of butter melted in three-fourths cup of water, after this 

> Edible portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 155 

has been exhausted use fat in pan. Turn bird often while 
cooking that it may brown evenly. When cooked, remove to 
hot platter and make the gravy. 

A chicken four to fiviB pounds will require about one and 
one-half to two hours for cooking. Turkey, nine pounds, two 
and one-half to three hours. Ducks (domestic), one to one 
and one-half hours. Duck (wild), twenty-five to thirty min- 
utes. Goose, nine pounds, two to two hours and one-half. 

GEAVY FOE EOAST POTTLTRY 

Clean the heart, liver and gizzard by removing the mem- 
brane, blood vessels and clotted blood from the heart. Cut 
liver from the gall bladder and remove all green on liver. 
Clean gizzard and cut through edge carefully to sac, and re- 
move carefully not to break it, wash giblets (that is, the 
heart, liver, gizzard) and the neck and put on to cook in two 
and one-half cups of cold water, cook slowly at the simmering 
point until tender. 

After chicken has been removed from pan, pour off all the 
fat, strain and return to pan four tablespoons of fat and add 
four tablespoons of flour, brown together thoroughly, and add 
gradually the water the giblets were cooked in. Cook five 
minutes, stirring constantly, add hot water if gravy is too 
thick, and salt and pepper to taste, and the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

TO BONE BIEDS 

Select bird that is fresh-killed, dry-picked, and not drawn. 
Cut off head and feet, singe and remove pin feathers, crop, and 
oil bag. Cut off wings close to body. Lay on board breast 
down and cut to bone the entire length of spine. Scrape the 
flesh from backbone the entire length of body, working toward 
the breast, cutting the tendinous portions as reached. When 
edge of breastbone is reached, care must be taken not to break 
through skin. Scrape flesh from second joint and drum- 
sticks, laying flesh back and pulling out bone (as if turning 
glove off inside out). 

Scrape flesh from lower part of back and withdraw from 



156 



ANIMAL FOODS 



carcass. Put flesh in original sliape and broil, following 
directions for broiled quail ; or stuff bird with stale bread 
crumbs and tie in shape witli string and bake in hot oven. 
When cooked, remove bread and tie in shape with a bit of 
white baby ribbon and garnish with parsley and lemon, 
BEOILED aUAIL 
100 grams ^160 CalorieB, 
Clean, cut ofE the head and feet, singe, and wipe with a 
damp cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife split the quail down 
the back, beginning at back of neck and cutting through the 
backbone the entire length of bird. Lay bird open and re- 
move contents. Cut through tendons at joints. Wipe thor- 
oughly. Season with salt and pepper, rub thickly with soft- 
ened butter and dredge with flour. Broil ten minutes over 
clear coals. Serve on hot buttered toast. Garnish with toast 
points, parsley and currant jelly. 

BROILED SQITABS 
100 grams = 300 Calories. 
Prepare, cook and serve the same as quail. 

BEOILED SHALL BIRDS 
All email birds can be broiled according to the directions 
for (juail, renieinbering that for very small ones it takes a very 
bright fire, as the birds should only be browned and the time 
required for cooking is brief. 

BIBDS BROILED IS PAPER 
See chapter on Meats and follow directions for " Chops 
Broiled in Paper." Page 151. 

BEOILED CHICKEIT ^M 

100 grams = 108 Caloriea.i ^^ 

Dreaa for broiling, following directions given under Broilei 

Quail. Season well with salt and pepper, and rub all over 

with softened butter, especially breast and legs. Put in a 

well-greased broiler and broil over a clear fire about fifteen 



POULTRY AND GAME 157 

minutes^ turning often. The flesh side must be exposed to 
the fire the greater part of the time as the skin side burns 
easily. When chicken is nicely browned, place in a dripping- 
pan, skin side down, in a moderate oven twelve minutes. Put 
on a hot dish, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve 
immediately. 

This rule is for a chicken weighing about two and a half 
pounds, yielding 725 calories. 

CEEAMED CHICKEN, 210 CALOEIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup cold cooked chicken. ^ tablespoon butter. 

Speck celery salt. l^ tablespoon flour. 

Salt. y^ cup rich milk. 

Pepper.- 

Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and pour on gradually 
the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly. Add chicken cut into 
dice, and seasonings. Heat well and serve on toast rounds, 
garnished with toast points and parsley; or use as a filling 
for Swedish timbales. 

Note. — Chicken may be used that is removed from chicken 
broth when it is tender. Chicken broth may replace part of 
the milk in making the sauce. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN 

Put creamed chicken into a small baking dish, cover with 
dried bread or cracker crumbs, dot with small pieces of but- 
ter, and brown in oven. 

JELLIED CHICKEN, 100 CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin. ^ cup chopped chicken. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt, celery salt. 
8 tablespoons strong chicken 

broth. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water five minutes, and add the 
boiling hot broth, stir until dissolved. Season to taste. Dip 

*0slea1ated with 1^ ounce of fowl. 
'▲bout 100 calories. 



U8 



ANIMAL FOODS 



mold into cold water and pour in enough gelatin to cover 
bottom, put in ice bos to harden, when firm decorate with a 
slice of hard-cooked egg; or cook a couple slices of carrots 
and cut a small round from one slice to form the center of 
a daisy and cut the other slice into strips to represent the 
petals and put in bottom of mold, add a few drops of 
gelatin to keep the decoration in place, and pet on ice to 
harden. Mis the chicken with remainder of gelatin and pour 
into mold and set to harden. Serve on leaf of lettuce or 
garnish with parsley. 

LABDED QBOnSE 

Clean and wash the gi'ouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Run a small skewer through the legs and tail. Tie firmly 
with twine. Dredge with salt, rub the breast with softened 
butter, then dredge with flour. Put into a quick oven. If 
desired rare, cook twenty minutes; if well done, thirty min- 
utes. Serve on hot platter garnished with parsley and Bread 
Sauce. 

LAUDED aUAIL 

100 gmma = 180 Calories, 

The directions for cooking and serving are the same as for 

grouse, except that quail cook in fifteen minutes. Larding 

gives richness to dry meat that does not have fat enough of 

its own. 

BREAD BA.VCE FOB OAKE, S40 CAIOSIEB 
CmmbB 
Va cup coarse dried bread crumbs. ^ email o 
Vj tableBpoon butter. 

Sai 
1 eup milk. Salt. 

Prepare Crumbs. Dry in a warm oven; sift. Oodkit 
coarse bread crumbs in the butter until a delicKto bCDWOf Hlld 
use to cover breast of bird. 

Prepare Sauce. Put the 




FISH 



159 



onion on to scald ten minutes, then skim out the onion, add 
the butter and seasoning, and serve as a gravy for birds. • 

FISH 

Fish is one of the important protein foods. The term is 
usually applied to all kinds of water animals used for food. 
They may be classified as follows : 

r Halibut 
Haddock 
Flounder 
White or lean, e. g. •{ Turbot 

White Fish 

Smelt 

Cod 



Classes 



1. Scaly or Vertebrate. 



Dark or oily, e. g. ^ 



Salmon 

Mackerel 

Blue Fish 

Shad 

Herring 

Eel 



.2. Shell-fish 



Mollusks, e. g. {?fair 



Crustaceans, e. g. 



^Crabs 
Lobsters 
Shrimps 
Turtles 

^Terrapin 



In the white-fleshed fish the fat is found principally in 
the liver. This is the only class usually considered in the 
cookery for the sick. 

In tiie dark-fleshed fish the fat is found distributed through- 

A considerable amount of the protein of fish 
Fish is less rich in extractives, and 
ihAn meat. 

itibility of scaly fish depends upon 
and the coarseness of the fiber. 




160 ANIMAL FOODS ^H 

The white-fleshed fish are less nutritious and stimulating th^^* 
the. dark- fleshed fish as they contain leas fat and extractives 
and more water. They are consequently more easily digested. 
With the exception of cod, white fish is useful for a con- 
valescent diet, for those of sedentary habits, for childr^ and 
others for whom the stimulating extractives of meat are not 
desirable. 

Oily fish should not be eaten by those of weak digestion 
or given to the sick. In some eases they may be served dur- 
ing advanced convalescence. 

Salt fish is not as easily digested as fresh fish, as the fibers 
are apt to be hardened in the process of salting. Salt codfish 
is an exception, for if finely divided and served in an ap- 
petizing manner it is a valuable and inexpensive form of 
protein food. As a rule, dried, smoked or pickled fish should 
not be given to the sick. 

By some persons, fish cannot be eaten without causing in- 
digestion or biliousness. A complete diet of fish is said to 
cause an affection of the skin. The fat sometimes disagrees, 
causing acidity and eructations of the stomach. 

Composition. In composition fish is similar to meat, con- 
taining proteins, extractives, fats, salts and wafer. As a rule, 
fish contains more water and less fat than meat, therefore it 
is more easily digested ; and it is due to this, its easy digesti- 
bility, that white fish by some is considered a brain food, and 
not, as is popularly supposed, to the amount of phosphorus it 
contains; in fact, fish does not contain as much phosphorus 
as some meat. Fish contains less extractives than meat and 
it is due to this that people tire more quickly of it than of 
meat. 

Lemon juice and vinegar are desirable condiments to serve 
with fish. The acid is a desirable neutralizing agency, as the 
juice of fish, especially shellfish, is of an alkahne nature. 

Nvtritive Value. The chief nutritive constituents of fish, 
as of meat, are their proteins and fats. Their energy value 
depends largely on the amount of fat tliey contain. 



_l^ k. 



I 



F FI8H l«ffl 

When Fish are in Season. Halibut, haddock, flounder and 1 
I cod, are in season all tile year. | 

Turbot, October to May; shad, February to May; salmon. 
May to September; blue fish and mackerel, May to October; l 
Bturgeon, April to September; trout (lake), April to August. J 

Test for Freshness. In fresh fiah the gills are red, the eyes I 
bright and protruding, the fleeh is firm and there is no un- i 
pleasant odor. The first two tests disappear after the fish 
has been out of water a short time, and although the flavor of 
' the fish is not as good, it is not spoiled. But if the last two 
testa are not present the fiah should not be used. Great care 
should be taken that flsh is perfectly fresh, in season, and 
thoroughly cooked, or it will be indigestible and sometimes 
poisonous. Unless these conditions are known to exist, fish 
should not be served to the sick. 

" In many European cities fish are sold alive, the customer 
selecting iiis flsh as it swims in a tank. It would seem that 
this excellent melhod might be used in our cities, especially 
those situated on the seaboard, at least for customers who are 
fastidious and who are willing to pay an extra price for 
a special article when it is warranted." (Farmer's Bulletin 
No. 375.) 

Principles to be Observed in Cooking Fish. As in meat, 
albumin is the principal constituent to be considered in the 
cooking of fish. Hence the same principles which apply to 
the cooking of meat apply also to the cooking of fish. 
a page 11, for effect of heat on albumin. 

Objective PotTits and Methods: 

To Retain the Juice. — Baking, Broiling. Boiling and Fry- 

To Extract the Juice. — Soup. 

To Extract and Retain the Juice. — Chowder. 

ENEKQT TAL1TE 07 FISH 

See Table, under names of fish, as Halibut, Salmon, etc. 
See Table, page C4, for energy value of other ingredients. 



<d 



ANIMAL FOODS 



BROILED FISH 

White fish, trout, small blue fish, mackerel, shad and email 
cod should be split down the back, and broiled whole, and if 
preferred, cut off the head and tail. Halibut and salmon 
should be cut into inch slices and turned often while broil- 



Clean Piah. Wipe with a cloth wet in salt-water, and dry 
on a fish towel. Season ; oily fiah need only aalt and pepper, 
but dry white fiah should be spread with butter and aalt and 
pepper before broiling. Use a double wire broiler greaaed 
well with salt poj'k rind. Put thickest edge of fish next 
middle of broiler, turn often while broiling; with split fish 
sear the fiesh side first and then turn. 

The time of cooking will vary with the thickness of fish. 
Fish is done when flesh separates easily from the hone. 

The fire ahould be hot and clear. When ready to serve, 
loosen the fish from broiler on each aide. Open broiler, slide 
fiah onto platter, having fleah side uppermost. Spread with 
butter, aalt and pepper. Garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. Or serve with Butter Cream and a border of potato 
balls. !^m 

Note " Fiah Sauces " for Butter Cream. ^^M 



BASED nSE ^H 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet in salted water, dry on a 
fish towel and bake on a greased fish sheet, placed in a drip- 
ping pan. A strip of cotton cloth, by which it may be lifted 
from the pan, may be substituted for the fish sheet. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, brush over with melted butter, dredge 
with flour, and place around fiah small pieces of fat salt pork. 
Bake in hot oven until fish separatee from bone when lifted 
with fork. Baste every ten minutes. Serve plain with 
melted butter, or with Egg Sauce. 

Note " Fish Sauces " for Egg Sauce. 




FISH 163 

HAUBXTT A LA CREOLE, 413 CALORIES 

y^ pound halibut. 1 clove. 

y^ cup tomatoes. % teaspoon sugar. 

% cup water. % tablespoon butter. 

Small piece onion. % tablespoon flour. 

Sprig parsley. Salt and pepper. 

Tomato Sauce. Blend tomatoes, water, onion, parsley, 
clove and sugar, and cook ten minutes. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
hot mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste, cook five minutes 
and strain. 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet with cold salted water 
and dry thoroughly. Put in baking tin, pour around half 
the sauce and bake until fish separates easily from bone, 
basting often. Serve on hot platter, pour around it the re- 
mainder of the sauce and garnish with parsley. 

CREAMED nSH 

(Individual Rule.) 

^ cup cooked fish, remove skin % cup cream or white sauce 
and bone, and flake the flesh (note Fish Sauces), 
with a fork; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon 
juice. 

Blend the fish and white. sauce, reheat and serve on toast^ 
garnish with parsley and half -slice of lemon; or serve in 
bread cases made of slices of bread cut two inches thick, 
round off edges, scoop out center, leaving case, brush with 
softened butter and brown in oven. 

Note. — White sauce may be poured on one egg yolk before 
adding fish. 

SCALLOPED PISH 

Put creamed fish into small baking dish, cover with dried 
bread or cracker crumbs; dot with bits of butter and brown 
in oven. 

CREAMED CODFISH, 828 CALORIES 

Flake salt codfish in small pieces, remove the bone ; the fish 
should be put into several cold waters to remove some of the 



164 ANIMAL FOODS 

Bfilt. Prepare the potatoes, cutting them into eighths, or if 
smal! into fourths, add the shredded fish and hoiling water 
to cover: cook until potatoes are tender, drain oS the water 
(saving it for the sauce), add a little butter and season wi th 
pepper, and mash lightly and heap in center of platter. J^M 

1 pint fish and potato water. 4 tablespoons flour. ^^| 

4 tablespoons butter. Pepper. 

Melt the hutter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
potato water. Cook thoroughly, season with pepper, and 
pour ahout the codfish, and garnish with slices of hard-cooked 
egg and parsley. 

CaEAKEQ CODFISH (FOK THE DIABETIC), 314 CALORIES 
14 cup flaked codSsh. '^ teaspoon Gum Gluten tlour. 

1 cup millc or cream. Yolk 1 egg. 

% teaspoon butter. Pepper. 

Soak the fish in two waters ; melt the butter, add the flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk ; cook thoroughly, add 
codfish and egg, cook five minutes, season and serve on Gum 
Gluten toast or fresh bread. ^^m 

CREAMED FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), SOS CALORIES ^| 
'/i cup cooked fish. ^ (?up cream sauce. ^^H 

Salt, pepper, lemon Juice. Gum Gluten bread crumbs. 

Season fieh with salt, pepper and lemon juice, add cream 
sauce, put into ramikins or cups, sprinkle with Gum Gluten 
crumbs, and hake. 

BAKED FISH (FOB, TEE DIABETIC), 480 CALORIES 
For baked fish make a dressing with one cup of Qnm 
Gluten bread crumbs, one-half an onion, chopped fine; one 
tablespoon celery, chopped fine, one tablespoon of butter ; pep- 
per, salt, lemon juice and parsley, 

FISH (FOR TEE DIABETIC) 
Fish should be rubbed with salt and pepper and dipped in 
Gum Gluten Flour, or rolled in egg and Gum Gluten Cracker 
crumbs. SautS (or fry) in oil or butter. 




FISH SAUCES 



FISH SAUCES 

BUTTEB, CREAU 
Cream a little butter; season with salt, cayenne, lemon 
ji:ice (speck salt and pepper, one-half teaspoon lemon juice). 
Add finely minced parsley or chopped pickle, such a a cucum- 
ber or olive. Prepare quantity according to size of fish. Put 
it on the fish, and place in oven a moment until butter is 
melted. 

CKEAK OB WHITE BAUCE, 126 CALOKIES 

{Individual Rule.) 
'/J tablespoon butter. '^ dip hot milk. 

'/g tablespoon flour. Salt. 

Melt butter, add flour, remove from flre, and pour on 
gradually the milk, stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling 
point, cook thoroughly and season. 

Note. — - Extra milk may be added if a thinner sauce is 
desired, using one-half cup milk. 

CEEAU SAUCE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 138 CALOEIES 
Vi cup milk. Salt. 

1 teaspoon Gum Gluten flour. Cayenne. 
1 teaapoon butter. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk; cook thoroughly and season. 

Eaa SAUCE, 434 CALORIES 

2'4 tablespoons butter. Speck pepper. 



ly, tablespoons flour. 
% teaspoon salt. 



i cup hot water. 
2 eggH. 



Melt one-half the butter; add flour and seasoning and 
pour on gradually the hot water. Boil five minutes and add 
remainder of butter in small pieces. Add two hard-cooked 
eggs cut into one-fourth inch elices, or the beaten yoJks may 
be added to hot sauce with one-half teaspoon lemon juice. 




166 ANIMAL FOODS 

EGG SAUCE NO. II 

To Cream or White Sauce add one hard-cooked egg chopped 
fine and a little lemon juice if desired; or add to White 
Sauce, yolk slightly beaten and a few drops of lemon juice. 

TOMATO SAUCE, 80 CALOKIES 

l^ tablespoon butter. Few grains salt. 

% tablespoon flour. Few grains pepper. 

y^ cup strained tomato juice. 

• 

Brown butter, add flour and stir until slightly browned; 
remove from fire and pour on gradually, stirring constantly, 
the heated tomato. Cook thoroughly and add salt and pepper. 

Note. — A sprig of parsley, one clove and a small piece of 
onion may be added to tomato while heating. 

CVCVMBEK KELISH, 15 CALORIES 

Grate one-half cucumber and add a small piece of red pep- 
per chopped fine; season with salt, pepper and vinegar and 
serve with fish. 

HOLLANDAISE, 484 CALORIES 

1 egg yolk. % teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons butter. White pepper. 

% tablespoon vinegar. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 

Put one tablespoon butter in top of double boiler, add the 
other ingredients. Place over hot water and stir constantly 
while butter is melting. Add second tablespoon of butter 
and stir until melted, repeat this process until all butter is 
used. As soon as the mixture begins to thicken remove from 
hot water. Vary by adding a little chopped parsley, grated 
horse-radish root. 

SHELL-FISH 

OYSTERS AND CLAHS 

Only the mollusks are considered in this book, because the 
crustaceans are not easily digested, and therefore are not suit- 
able for an invalid diet. 

Oysters. Oysters are valuable food for invalids and con- 



SHELL-FISH IG? 

TaleacentB. Their nutritive value la not high, but they are 
easily digested and possess a delicate flavor which ia a&- 
eeptable to most palates. 

Composition. The five food principles are represented in 
oysters. Reckoned as " solid," i. e., removed from the shell, 
oysters contain 88.3 per cent, of water, 6.1 per cent, protein, 
1.4 per cent, fat, and 3.3 per cent, carbohydrate. Oysters 
come nearer to milk than almost any other common food 
material, both in amount and proportion of nutritive prin- 
ciples. 

The carbohydrate is in the form of glycogen, being found 
in the liver, which constitutes a large proportion of the oyster. 

DigeMibilHy. The soft part of the oyster or clam is made 
wp largely of the stomach and liver and is easily digested 
when cooked in a variety of ways — broiling, roasting, stew- 
ing, panning and steaming — but not fried when served to 
the sick. 

The hard part of shellfish is the muscle which fastens the 
animal to the shell, and is rendered tougher by all forms of 
cooking: therefore, when whole oysters are to be eaten, they 
are more easily digested when served raw or broiled slightly 
in the shell. They can be digested by fever patients and 
those suffering from many forms of gastric disorders. 

It is desirable in acute illness to serve only the soft part 
of the oyster, but in the later stages of convalescence the 
whole oyster can be served raw or in stew and soups, which 
are recommended on account of their liquid form and warmth. 

When in Season. Oysters are in season from September to 
May. During the rest of the year they are insipid and unfit 
for food. 

Principles to be Carefully Observed in Serving and Cook- 
ing Oysters for the Sick, (a) Make every effort to have the 
oyster alive when used, or as fresh as can be obtained from 
a reliable dealer. Many serious cases of illness and even 
death have been caused by eating oysters so long dead that 
poisonous substances had formed in them. Great care should 
sIbo be taken that oysters are not procured from beds where 



* 



n 



168 



ANIMAL FOODS ' 



the water has heen contain in a ted in any way. "Ah it is ia 
general impossible to learn tlieir origin the rule of never eat- 
ing them in the raw state is adopted by many. The practice 
of fattening or ' floating ' oysters in fresh or in brackish 
water robe them of much of their fine flavor, and since the 
moat accessible supply of such water is at the outlet of 
streams, and as such streams are frequently polluted by sew- 
age, many persons believe that this practice should be for- 
bidden by law." ^ 

(b) Oysters contain an albuminous substance which in- 
creases in hardness with an increase of temperature, just as 
the albumin of an egg does. When oysters are cooked with 
reference to this albuminous substance, they are also cooked 
in the best possible manner with reference to their other con- 
stituents ; therefore subject them to a low temperature, for 
a short time, bearing in mind that 160 to 180 degrees Fahren- 
heit is the cooking temperature of albumin. 

General rule is to remove the oyster from heat as soon 
as the body grows plump and the edges curl, if cooked be- 
yond this stage they are over-cooked. 

Varieties. In New York State the " Blue Points " are 
considered the finest for serving raw. They come originally 
from Blue Point, Long Island. 

In Massachusetts the " Cove " Oyster is considered the fin- 
est for serving raw. They come from a still water cove near 
Plymouth. 

Clams. Clams are similar in composition to the oyster 
and same genera! rules followed in preparing and serving. 
They are much used for food and considered a great delicacy. 
They contain a tough portion that is not used in sick-room 
cookery, but the clear juice, on account of its digestibility 
and stimulating properties, is invaluable in the sick room. 
Clams are in season all the year around. 

Varieties. There are two varieties, the hard and soft shell 
clams. The hard shell are known as quahaugs. The small 




I 



OYSTERS 169 , 

I "little neck cloms " take the place of Blue Pointa , 
to serve raw when oysters are out of season. 
eherqt talve of otstebs 

2 oysters =: 14 Caloriefl. 

100 grams oystpra =50 Calories. 

1 cup (solid) oysters ^S4 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 
KAW OTSTEBS 

"Wash, scrub the shells well under a stream of water with 
a vegetable brush. With a hammer break the thin edges of 
the shell so that a knife may be inserted to sever the muscle 
which holds tlie two parts of the shell together : when this is 
cut remove the upper half and wipe the edges free from any 
grains of sand. Then sever the muscle which joins the oyster 
to the other shell, so that it may be easily lifted out without 
the necessity of cutting. Arrange six oysters on an oyster- 
plate on crushed lee, and serve with salt, black pepper and 
lemon juice. A quarter of lemon cut lengthwise may be 
placed in the center of plate, and bit of parsley. 
0TSTEE6 EOASTES IIT THE SHELL 

Wash the shells very carefully with a brush. Put them 
in a wire broiler over glowing coals, the round side of shell 
down BO as to hold the juice. Cook them quickly, turning 
once or twice until the shell opens. They may also be cooked 
in a hot oven. When done remove the upper half of the shell ; 
reason them quickly with salt, pepper and a tiny bit of but- 
ter and vinegar, if liked, and serve them while very hot. 

The true oyster flavor is delightfully developed by pre- 
paring in this way. They may also be served with melted 
butter, salt, pepper and lemon juice. 

TO WASH OYSTEKS 

Place oysters in strainer over a bowl and pour one table- 
Bpoon of water over each one-half cup of oysters. Take each 
oyster up in fingers and remove any particle of shell that may 
adhere to tough muscle. 



4 



iro 



ANIMAL FOODS 



I 



FAIT EOAST OTSTEKS 

Wash oysters and put in saute pan or chafing dish and 
gently stir with spoon. When bodies grow plump and the 
edgea curl remove from heat. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little butter and serve on rounds of toast, with eighth 
of lemon for individual dishes; or serve on platter and 
garnish with toast points, watercress and lemon, ^_ 

BBOIIEQ DTSTESS, 320 CAIOAIES ^H 

(lodiridual Rule.) ^^M 

4 oystera. 4 toaapoona butter. ^^1 

^/t cup cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

Select large oysters. Wash, drain and dry between towels. 
Melt butter. Season cracker crumbs with salt and pepper. 
With silver fork lift each oyster by tough muscle, end dip 
first in butter, then in crumbs. Place on a buttered fine wire 
broiler and broil, turning often until broivn and the juice be- 
gins to flow. Serve plain, garnished with parsley and a piece 
of lemon or prepare cream toast and sprinkle with fine 
chopped celery, and place the broiled oysters on top. 
CEEAMED OTSTEES, S81 CALORIES ^ 
(iDdividual Rule.) 
8 oysters. Y^ cup rich milk or thin cream. 

1 Inblespoon butter. Salt. 

1% tablespoon flour. White pepper. 

Wash, drain and dry oyster between towels. Melt butter 
and remove from lire, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk. Season with salt and pepper. Cook thor- 
oughly. Add the oysters and heat until the edges curl and 
the bodies grow plump. Serve at once on rounds of toast 
and garnish with toast points and parsley or in crisped " bread 
cases." Sec " Creamed Fish." 

CREAKED OYSTERS HO. H, 340 CAL0BIE8 ^ 
(Individual Rule.) 
Vi cup thin cream or rich milk, I teaspoon buttei 
J tableBpooti Hour. 8 oystera, 

% teaspoon salt. 

■CilcDiBted with »l.ol^ mllli, 
<C*lcnUled wlUi ibin cresm. 




OYSTERS 171 

Wet the flour with a little cold milk : scald the cream, add 
the flour and cook well. Just before serving add the drained 
oysters and cook until they grow plump and the edges curl; 
add the salt and butter. Serve in Swedish timbale shells, lit- 
tle scooped-out Uuos, or on rounds of toast. 

SCALLOPED OTSTEBS, 3SS CALOEUIS 

(Individual Rule.) 
Ya cup oysters. Salt. 

M cup cracker crumbs. Pepper. 

% cup stale bread crumbs. '/^ tablespoon cream. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 tablespoon oyater liquor. 

Prepare the oyaterB. Stir together crumbs and melted but- 
ter. Butter a small baking dish and sprinkle part of tha 
crumbs in it. Put in half the oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of crumbs, pour over enough cream 
or oyster liquor to moisten well, add the remaining ovBters, 
season, and finish with a layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a 
hot oven about ten minutes, till oysters are plump and crumbs 
browned. Serve hot. 

Never allow more than two layers as they will not cook 
evenly. A sprinkling of mace or nutmeg is considered an 
improvement bv some. Sherry wine may be used in place 
of cream. 

OYSTER SOUP. 252 GAIOEIES 

(Individual Rule.} 
y^ cup oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup water. % tablespoon flour. 

y, cup milk. Grating of mace. 

Bit of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the scalded milk; add mace and onion, and cook 
thoroughly. 

Put oysters in a strainer placed over a bowl, add water and 
carefully pick over oysters to remove particles of shell. Heat 
liquor which lias drained from oysters to the boiling point, 
strain througli two thicknesses of cheese-cloth and return to 



172 ANIMAL FOODS 

saucepan, add oyetere and cook until plump and edges curl. 
Drain oil liquor and add to soup. Season, add oysters and 
serve immediately. 

079TEE SOTTP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 107 CAIOEIES 
(Two Servings.) 
One-half pint of oysters, heated in their own liquor; strain. 
Put in saucepan one-half teaspoonful butter and a scant half- 
teaspoonful of Gum Gluten Flour, add liquor, and, when 
slightly thick, oysters, pepper and salt. Tor variety, add 
occaaionally a tablespoonful of cream. 

OTSTEB STEW, 205 CAIOEIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
^ cup oysters. y^ teaspoon salt. 

% cup milk. Hpeck pepper. 

% tablespoon water. Vi tablespoon butter. 

Scald the milk. Put oysters in a strainer placed over 
bowl, and add water. Carefully pick over oysters to remove 
particles of shell. Heat the liquor which has drained from 
the oysters to the boiling point, and strain through the finest 
strainer and eheeae-cloth, return to saucepan and put in the 
oysters and simmer, but do not hoil, until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl and separate. Strain the liquor 
into the scalded milk, season, add oysters and serve imme- 
diately. 

CLAMS 
ENEEQT VALUE OF CLAHS 

% dozen elama =40 Calories. 

3y3 ounces clam bouillon ^ 2 Calories. 

1 quart clam bouillon =23 Calories. 

See Table, page ()4, for energy value of other ingredient 

XITTIE HECK CLAUS 

Serve raw on the half-shell in same manner as raw oystera. 

STEAMED CLAUS 
For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash 
in several waters, scrubbing thoroughly. Put into kettle. 



add 

I 



I 



CLAMS 173 

• 

allowing one-fourth cup water to one quart clams. Cover 
closely and steam until clams partially open. Care should 
be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. A 
few drops of lemon juice may be added to butter. 

CLAH BKOTH 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 dozen clams. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Wash clams and scrub with a brush, changing the water 
several times. Put in saucepan, add water, cover, and cook 
until shells open. Eemove clams from shell, adding liquor 
which comes from them, to liquor already in saucepan. 
Strain liquor ^through double thickness of cheese-cloth. Serve 
hot, cold, or frozen. 

CLAH WATER 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired. Serve hot, cold, or frozen. 
When necessary, serve in small quantity and repeat at short 
intervals. 

Note. — Clam broth served in the several ways (as a 
variety) is invaluable in case of weak stomach, indigestion 
and general debility. 

CLAH WATER NO. II, 17 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup Clam Broth. Pepper. 

1 tablespoon milk. % teaspoon butter. 

Yg cup hot water. 

Blend the clam broth, milk and hot water, season with 
pepper and add the butter. Serve hot. 

Note. — The pepper and butter may be omitted when neces- 
sary. 



174 ANIMAL FOODS 

CLAH STEW, 250 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup clam broth. % teaspoon salt. 

^ cup scalded milk. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter. Soft part of 1 dozen clams. 

V2 tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter, add flour, add gradually the scalded milk and 
clam broth, and cook thoroughly. Season, add clams and 
serve hot. 

CLAH SOTTP, 276 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

^ dozen clams. V2 tablespoon butter. 

% cup cold water. V2 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper. 

Wash and scrub clams and put in kettle with cold water. 
Cook until shells open. Take from shell and cut off the 
tough parts; save the soft parts for the soup and keep warm. 
Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot milk. Cook thoroughly; add soft parts 
of clams and juice, season with salt and pepper, and serve 
inunediately and hot. 

CLAM BOUILLON, 45 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup cold water. Salt. 

l^ cup clam broth. Pepper. 

% cup scalding milk. Celery sauce. 

Vsj teaspoon butter. White of egg or whipped cream. 

Blend the water and clam broth, heat to the boiling point, 
then add the scalding milk, the butter, and stir well; season 
with salt, pepper and celery sauce to taste. A small quan- 
tity of cracker crumbs may be added to thicken it. Serve in 
heated bouillon cups and garnish with two teaspoons of 
whipped cream or well-beaten white of egg. 



EGGS 175 ' 

OLAU B01TIXL01I BISQUi:, 355 CiXOEXES 

(Two Serringa.) 
% tablespoon butter. '/j tablespoon flour, 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 eup boiling water, 

Va tablespoon chopped carrot. Yolk 1 egg. 
1 cup elam broth, Vi "^i^P cream. 

Melt the butter, add the finely chopped onion and carrot, 
cover and cook until the onion and carrot are tender, stirring 
it occasioually. Add the flour, blending well ; then pour on 
gradually the boiling water and the clam broth. Cook five 
minutes, atrain and return to saucepan. Mix the yolk of egg 
with the cream, and add it slowly to tlie Bisque. Pour into 
heated bouillon cups, and serve with small oyster crackers. 
ALBUMimzED CLAH WATER 
See " Albuminized Beverages" for recipe. Page 133. 

CIAH BKOTH SO. H 
See " Meat Broth and Jellies " for recipe. Page 230. 

GLAU SHOTS OIT TOAST 
See " Toast " for recipe. Page 3o8. 
CLAH FRAPPE 
Sec " Ices " for recipe. Page 313. 

CLAU SHESBET 
See "Sherbets" for recipe. Pago 313. 

EGOS' 

Many kinds of eggs are eaten, but hens' eggs are the only 
ones necessary of consideration as a staple article of diet. 
The shell constitutes about 1.1 per cent, of the weight of the 
whole egg, the yolk 33 per cent., and the white 57 per cent. 

Composition. Eggs are albuminous in nature and con- 
sist practically of the following substances — protein, water, 
fat and mineral matter. The composition of the hen's egg ia 
as follows: 



4 



1. 128. C. a. Dap 



" 'Etg* nnd Theli 



ANIMAL FOODS 



05.6% ll.S% 

73.T.% 13.*% 

86.3% ia.3% 

49.6% 15.7% 



Froni this table it may be seen that the white of egg con- 
sists of eight-tenths water, the remaining portion being prin- 
cipally protein (albumin), with a little mineral matter, etc., 
the yolk is about half water, one-third fat, and nearly one- 
sixth protein, with almost twice as much mineral matter as 
the white. 

Varieties. By eggs the product of the domestic fowl are 
commonly meant. The eggs of the duck, goose, turkey, etc., 
are edible, bfit are hardly suited for the sick, because of their 
stronger flavor. The purely white eggs are usually selected 
for the invalid, but many regard the brown-shelled egg aa the 
more delicate. 

Digestibility. Eggs are easily digested and very thoroughly 
absorbed in the intestines. If the absorption is delayed, de- 
composition follows with production of sulphuretted hydrogen 
and ammonia, which causes considerable gastro-enteric disturb- 
ance. The yolk is usually the cause of this disturbance. The 
digestibility of an egg depends upon its freshness and the 
manner in which it is cooked. ' Carelessness in cooking and 
serving may make an egg difficult of digestion and un- 
appetizing, when, if it is cooked properly, it would be more 
palatable and easy of digestion. A raw egg, on account of its 
blandnesB, does not stimulate the flow of gastric juice and is 
not as easily digested as a soft-cooked egg; but by heating a 
. raw egg the albumin is finely divided and is more quickly 
acted upon by gastric juice, consequently is digested about 
as quickly as a soft-cooked egg, Eaw egga are added to 
various foods, as milk and broth, etc., to give e.ttra nutriment. 
: freely prescribed for those suffering from loss of 
flesh and strength, as the convalescent, anaemic, or in tubercu- 
9«e Albumin, p. 11. 





I 



EGGS nrl 

losis; in such cases as many as twelve eggs being given in as ] 
many hours. I 

A Boft-cooked egg digests very quickly. 1 

A medium-cooked egg is not aa easily digested as either 
the raw, soft or hard-cooked, and should not be served cooked 
in this manner to the sick. 

A hard-cooked egg as commonly cooked is difficult to di- 
gest, bnt cooked at proper temperature and chopped very fine 
will digest about as quickly as a soft-cooked egg. 

Nutritive Value. Eggs are a very nutritious food, com- 
parable with meat, milk, cheese, and other animal foods, both 
as regards total food material and the total protein and fat 
furnished by them. At twenty-five cents per dozen they are 
commonly considered very expensive, but this must not be 
interpreted too literally. Many persons will be satisfied with 
an egg who would not be with the equivalent food value in 
.the form of meat, and eggs are valuable for giving variety 
to the diet and for furnishing an easily digested protein food, 
especially for the sedentary. For children they are much 
better than meat, because the fat is in an emulsified, and 
hence easily digested form, and because of their ash con- 
stituents. The yolk is rich in compounds of iron, phosphorus, 
calcinm, magnesinm. The protein of egg yolk is combined 
with lecithin, a phosphorized fat which has come to be re- 
garded as an important constituent of food, especially for the 
growing animal. Egg yolks are frequently prescribed for 
invalids requiring an easily assimilated, concentrated food. 
It should be remembered that when fat is barred from the 
diet, egg yolk should not be given. 

Egg white is valuable chiefly as a source of protein. Be- 
cause of its mild flavor it can be combined with many sub- 
stances, especially milk and other beverages (See "Al- 
buminous Beverages," page 118), to increase the nutritive 
value of a liquid or semi-solid diet. 

With some persons, eggs induce constipation, or have a 
slight aphrodisiac effect. They contain sulphur, and unless 
digested before decomposition occurs in the alimentary tract, 






1?8 ANIMAL FOODS 

give rise to hydrogen sulphide gas. They should not be eaten 
by those suffering from flatulent dyspepsia, gastric dilatation, 
or any severe gastric derangement. They are contraindicated 
in acute Bright's disease. 

Principles to be Observed in Cooking. The principal con- 
etituent of the egg is albumin, which should be cooked in 
such a manner as to require the least possible expenditure of 
force in digestion. Those who are ill cannot afford to waste 
energy, and whether they are forced to do so or not depends 
much upon those who prepare their food. 

Effect of Temperature on Albumin. See " Albumin," page 
11. 

The proper cooking temperature of egg albumin is 160 to 
180 degree Fahrenheit, when it ia found to be tender, soft, 
jelly-like, and in an easily digested state. 

But cooked at the boiling point of water, 818 degrees 
Fahrenlieit, albumin is found to be firm, compact, tough and 
indigestible. With this knowledge we can appreciate the" 
necessity of cooking eggs at a temperature below that of boil- 
ing water. It is often advisable to cook the white and yolk 
of eggs separately, as the yolk when hard cooked (at proper 
temperature) and mealy is more easily digested than the 
soft cooked yolk, and the white more easily digestfid soft 
cooked. 

Suggestions. Eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Always wash egga just before using. Save the shell for mak- 
ing boiled coffee, as the shells of three egga is as effective in 
settling coffee as one whole egg. When using several egge 
break tliem separately in a saucer to test the quality of each. 

In beating fresh eggs to a stiff froth the albmnin entraps 
the air, forming bubbles which expand and stiffen when ex- 
posed to heat and blended with batter and dough, thus mak- 
ing the food light and spongy. Stale eggs lose this quality 
of froth iness. 

Test for Fresh Eggs. (1) The shell of a fresh egg is 
slightly rough : held to the eai' and shake slightly there should 
"ttle sound, held in front of electric light or caudle i^^i 



EGGS 179 

a dark room if they look more transparent in center they are 
fresh, if more transparent at ends, are stale. 

(2) In a solution made of two ounces of common salt and 
one pint of water, an egg one day old will sink (not quite 
reach the bottom) ; three days old wUl barely float above the 
surface, and seven days old will float above the surface. This 
is due to the loss of water and to the development of gases of 
putrefaction. Unless air is excluded from eggs they very 
quickly deteriorate in value and decompose. 

The water in the egg evaporates through the shell, which 
is porous, and aii* rushes in to take its place, causing decompo- 
sition of the organic matter of the egg, the result being the 
formation of various gases — principally sulphuretted hydro- 
gen, due to the action of putrefactive bacteria which enter 
the shell with air. Eggs eaten in this state may cause gastric 
and intestinal disorders, therefore, unless eggs are perfectly 
fresh, they should not be given to a child or a person of 
delicate digestion or the sick. 

ENERGY VALUE OF AN EGG 

1 average egg =60 Calories. 

1 average white of egg =13 Calories. 

1 average yolk of egg =48 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of boiling 
water to cover; remove to back of stove, or where the water 
will keep very hot, but not boil. Cook seven to ten minutes, 
according to consistency desired. Serve in slightly heated 
cups. 

Note. — A stone crock is nice to use, as it keeps more even 
heat. A double boiler may be used, putting boiling water 
in top and bottom, set on back of stove and cook six to seven 
minutes, according to size of egg. 

Care must be taken that the size of utensil is in accordance 
with the number of eggs to be cooked, so that the cold eggs 



ANIMAL FOODS 

will lower the temperature o£ Ihe boiling water, 
perature about 160 degree Fahrenheit, or a little above. 

SOFT COOKED EQGS SO. II 

Waeh one egg and put it in a small saucepan of cold water 
to cover. Bring just to boiling point, remove and serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

EABD COOKED EQEIS 

Follow directions for soft cooked eggs No. T^ allowing egg 
to remain in water forty-five minutes. Chop fine and add 
one-half teaspoon butter and a few graing salt, serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

st£Ahi:d eogs 

Butter an egg shirrer or a small sauce-plate and pour in 
the eggs. Salt, place in steamer over boiling water, and 
cook till white is firm. Cooked in this manner, the white is 
tender and light and can be eaten by invalids. 

BAKED EGOS 

Plain baked eggs make a pretty breakfast dish. Take a 
deep earthen plate, butter it and break in the eggs, adding 
salt, pepper, bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the white is set. Garnish with curled parsley and serve with 
buttered toast. Use a small dish to prepare one egg. 

Note. — Before cooking y^ tablespoon of cream to each 
egg may be poured over them, and in serving s little grated 
cheese may be sifted over the top. 

BAKES EGQS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Break an egg into a baking-cup, pour gently over it a large 
tablespoonful of melted butter sauce; then add a thick layer 
of grated cheese ; sprinkle with Gum Gluten cracker crumbs, 
and dot with bits of butter. Bake until the egg is set, and 
aerve at once. 




I 



EQGS 1 

QOLDEH'BOD EOQS 

1 hard-eooked egg ^60 Calories. 2 slices toasts 146 Caloriea. 

Sauce — 170 Calories. 

2 teaspoons butter. Speck white pepper. 
^ tablespoon flour. Salt. 
'^ cup scalded milk. 

Prepare the sauce. Add the white of egg chopped fine, 
pour over the toast and rub the yolk through a strainer o^er 
the top. Serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalded 
milk; cook well and season with salt and pepper. 
ECa ITESTB, 142 CALOKIES 
1 eg^. 1 round of toast with toast 

14 teaspoon butter. points. 

Salt to Uste. 

Toast bread. Separate egg. Beat white to a stiff froth. 
Salt to taste. Spread toast with butter and put white of egg 
on in shape of nest. Make a depression in center, put in the 
butter and drop the yolk in the hollow. Cook in a moderate 
oven three or four minutes. 

Note, — May be cooked in tumbler placed in pan of water, 
allowing the water to heat gradually, and as the white rises, 
make a depression and drop in yolk. 
It may be served with Tomato Sauce. 

rOAHY OUELET, 144 CAL0KIE5 
1 egg. % saltspoon salt. 

Speck pepper. 

Separate egg and beat white to a stiff froth. Beat yolk 
till light, add milk, salt and pepper; lightly fold the yolk 
into the white. Put butter into saute pan, when it bubbles 
pour in the mixture. Gently shake pan so omelet will not 
adhere to it; lift up at sides with a knife to see when done, 
and when a delicate brown set pan in oven a minute to 
moisfure on top. Fold omelet half over, turn on a 
hot disli, and serve immediately. 



182 ANIMAL FOODS ^^^H 

Variationa. Mix one tablespoon ham, or any meat,' 
chopped fine, with foamy omelet, and cook as directed. Or 
when omelet is cooked, the chopped meat may he spread over 
before folding, A little chopped parsley may he added. Oya- 
tera either whole or chopped, or creamed chicken, stewed or 
sliced tomatoes, asparagus tips, peas or jelly may be used. 

BAKED HEAT OUELET 
Prepare Foamy Omelet and add to it the chopped meat. 
Put it into a buttered pudding-dish, set it in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm. ^^m 

BKEAD OMELET. 164 CALOBIES ^^M 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs. Speck pepper. ^^^| 

2 tableBpoons milk. 1 egg. 

Speck Bait. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Soak bread crumbs in the cold milk for ten minutes, add 
the salt and pepper. Separate egg and beat until light. Add 
the crumbs and milk to the yolk and fold in the white. Fol- 
low general directions as for Foamy Omelet. 
POACHES OE DEOPFED EQGS 
Toast a. sqnare or round piece of bread and four toast 
points; put on hot plate with points at each side and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. Have a shallow pan two-thirds full 
of boiling salted water, allowing one teaspoon salt to one pint 
water. Put a slightly buttered muffin ring on a buttered 
ekimmer in the water. Break an egg into the ring. The 
water should cover the egg. When there is a film on top and 
the white is firm, carefully take up skimmer, remove ring, 
loosen egg with a knife and place on the toast; salt slightly. 
The toast may he buttered if desired. ^H 

EGO POACHED IK UILE. 470 CALOBIES ^M 

1 egg. Salt. ■ 

IVi teaapoons butter. 2 tableepoona grated cheeae. 

% cDp thin cream. 

Melt butter in top of double boiler, add cream and when 
hot drop in carefully the egg. Cook until white is nearly 



ck- 
iet. 



firm, add salt and sprinkle with cheese. Serve ou toast. 
Cheese may Ije omitted. 

CODDLED OE SCEAKBIEO EGQS, ISO CALORIES 

1 egg. 1 saltspoon salt. 

Vi cup milk. Speck pepper. 

I teaspoon butter. 

Beat egg in top of double boiler until light, add milk and ' 
rest of ingredients and stir over boiling water until it thick- 
ens; allow it to stand a few minutes without stirring, to set. 
Serve on toast or hot rice. 

£00 8AKDWIGKES. 96 CALOEIES 

1 hard-cooked egg, % tenspoon mustard. 

% teaspoon salt, 3 drops vinegar. 

Speck paprika. 1 teaapoon butter. 

Mince the egg very fine with a silver fork, add seasonings 
and butter, and mix thoroughly. Butter very thin slices of 
bread, spread with egg mixture, cover it with watercress 
leaves, or bita of nasturtium leaves, or lettuce. Cover with 
another slice of bread, and cut in triangles or rounds. Serve 
on small plate and doily. 

Note. — Minced ham may be added to egg mi.xture, 
8HIBB.ED BOOS 

Butter an egg shirrer, ramikins, or small earthen cups; 
put one egg in each without breaking yolk ; dust with salt and 
white pepper, put in pan of hot water and cook on back of 
range or in a moderate oven until white is set. If baked, 
cover with a battered paper to keep from browning. 
8HIEBED EOQS ITO. n 

Butter small, deep earthen dishes and line with fine white 
bread crumbs moistened to a paste, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Break an egg in each, sprinkle with a few grains 
of salt, cover with more paste and bake in a pan of hot water, 
placed in the oven, AVIien egg is set, serve with two table- 
spoons of tomatoes or cream sauce poured over it, and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. 



<l 



AMMAL FOODS 

FILLED EGOS, 96 CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg. % tpaepoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon butter or Paprika. 

1 teaspoon olive oil. Salt. 

Eemove the shell and cut tlie egg in halves lengthwise. 

Take out the yolk carefnlly without breaking the white. Btib 

the Yolk to a smooth paste, adding the butter or oil and the 

seasoDings, and mix thoroughly. A small quantity of finely 

chopped ham, tongue or chicken may be added. Fill the 

whites with the mixture and serve on lettuce, or In a bed of 

paraley. 

EGQ DESSEBTS 

See " Nutritious Desserts " for recipe. Page S86. 

ALBimillOnS BEVERAOES 
See " Albaininous Beverages '' for recipe. Page 118. 

HTLK AITD MILK PEODTJCTS' 

Uilk is the only substance in nature designed expressly for 
the nourishment of the young animal. It contains all the 
compounds necessary to support life, in remarkably good pro- 
{Kirtions and in very assimilable forms. It is a perfect food 
for infants, and is specially suited to the needs of certain 
classes of invalids and sedentary persons. For the active 
adult it is undesirable as the sole article of diet, because the 
proportion of water is so high that large quantities have to 
be taken to supply the necessary energj' ; because the propor- 
tion of protein is unnecessarily high ; and because it furnishes 
no indigestible residues to supply bulk for the perfect func- 
tioning of tho intestines. 

Composition. Milk contains the five food principles, the 
proportions varying somewhat with different species, and also 
with individuals of the same species. Cow's milk, which is 
most extensively used, is the only kind which will be con- 
sidered here. Milk has a specific gravity of 1.027 to 1.035. 



of 

I 




^w 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 185 

The chief bulk is water, which averageB 87 per cent. The 
solid matter is made up of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The average percentages are as follows : 
Protein, 3.3 per cent.; fat, 4 per cent.; carbohydrates, 5 per 
cent; mineral matter, 0.7 per cent. 

The principal protein is casein, a compound containing 
both phosphorus and sulphur. Casein is precipitated (or 
coagulated) by the addition of acid or in neutral solutions, 
by rennet. Milk also contains lactalbumin, arranging about 
1/7 of the total protein. The character of the curd depends 
largely on the relative proportions of casein and lactalbumin. 

The fat of milk varies widely in amount. It is found 
throughout the milk in globules, i. e., as an emulsion. On 
standing, the fat rises to the top and forms cream chemically. 
Several fata are present, chiefly stearin, palmitin and olein, 
with smaller amounts of others, which give the characteristic 
flavor to butter. The chief carbohydrate is lactose or milk 
sugar. This remains in the whey when the casein and fat 
are removed. 

The ash constituents are mainly phosphates and chlorides 
of calcium, sodium and potassium. 

Digestibility. While milk is taken as a liquid, it should 
really be regarded as a solid food, for in the stomach it is 
coagulated by the action of the enzyme rennin in the gastric 
juice. If the milk is swallowed hastily, a large, tenacious 
curd may form, which will remain long in the stomach, and 
the milk will be regarded as diihcult of digestion. If the 
milk is sipped slowly — or eaten with a spoon — the curds will 
be small, and hence readily acted on by the gastric juice. 
For this reason, the combination of milk with another food 
material, as bread or cereal gruel, may render it more easily 
digestible. Many persons think that they cannot digest milk. 
This is seldom true, if the above precautions are taken. 

Nutritive Value. Milk is a high protein food. In infancy 
it therefore furnishes the nitrogen necessary for the forma- 
tion of new protoplasm. Throughout the growing period, it 
furnishes the most valuable source of protein, as it is non- 




186 ANIMAL FOODS ■ 

stimulating, and less liable to putrefaction in the alimentary 
tract than meat proteins. Given a quart of milli and an egg 
each day, a child under eight years of age on a suitable diet 
of proper fuel value, will have sufficient protein for all body 
needs. 

The fat of milk, being in an emulsified form, is more 
readily digested than the fat of meats and other similar foods. 
The carbohydrates of milk require only transformation to 
simple sugars by the intestinal enzyme lactase, to be per- 
fectly utilized. Often the energy value of milk is increased 
for infants and invalids, by addition of this soluble, mild- 
flavored compound. 

The ash of milk contains the elements required for the 
bony tissues in particularly assimilable forms. It is lack- 
ing in iron, bo that this element must be supplied by other 
foods {as yolk of egg) when milk is the chief source of nutri- 
ment. 

The value of milk as a food is not appreciated by many 
people. It ia frequently regarded as a beverage rather than 
nutriment, while in fact a quart of milk is equivalent in food 
value to half a loaf of bread (six ounces) or three-quarters of 
a pound of lean beef. It contains as much protein as one- 
third of a pound of lean beef, at approximately the same 
price, and in addition about as much fat as is daily con- 
sumed at the table in the form of butter, over one and one-half 
ounces of milk sugar, and valuable mineral salts. Compared 
with other anima! foods milk is a cheap food, even at 10 or 13 
cents per quart, and should enter freely into the dietary. It 
need not be used as a beverage if disliked, but can be combined 
with other materials in soups, sauces for vegetable, custards 
and the like, or used in cooking cereals, in place of water. 

The value of akim milk as a food also needs to he empha- 
sized. It has lost most of the fat in the skimming processes, 
but is correspondingly richer than whole milk in protein, 
carbohydrates and ash. It is not as rich in flavor aa whole 

milk, but used in combination with other foods it forms b 

very inexpensive source of valuable nutriment, two and c 



r 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS IST 

half quarte of skim milk will yield ae much protein as a 
pound of lean round steak, at less than one-fourth the coat. 

Care of milk. The importance of keeping milk clean can- 
not be OTcr-emp ha sized. Aside from all esthetic considera- 
tions, absolute cleanliness is essential as a protection to 
health. Milk is an excellent culture medium for bacteria, and 
these organisms may not only be of types producing changes 
in the character of the milk, such as alterations in flavor, 
odor, color, decomposition of proteins, formation of gases, 
alcohol, lactic acid, etc., but also disease germs, especially 
those of tuberculosis, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, and diph- 
theria. 

Commercially, care of milk is important as effecting the 
keeping qualities. For all these reasons, milk should come 
from a healthy animal in a sanitary environment. Milking 
must be done under conditions which protect the milk as 
fully as possible from contamination through impurities on 
the cow herself, on the hands or clothing of the milker, in 
the receptacles used for the milk, and in the air, in the place 
where the milking is done. Milk should be immediately 
cooled, and transported to the consumer in sealed bottles; 
cooling prevents the growth of bacteria. Such cautions 
necessarily increase the price of milk, but even then milk is 
a cheap food and the additional secnrity is worth paying 
for. 

CertificaHon of MUk. To insure a milk free from im- 
purities, the method of certification and pastearization have 
been widely adopted. 

Certification involves a specific testing of milk against all 
accidental and harmful contamination. To secure it the 
services of chemists, bacteriologists and veterinary surgeons 
are required. The most vital object desired is the exclusion 
of tubercule bacilli from milk, which involves a special in- 
spection of dairy herds and rejection of tuberculous cows. 
Other pernicious germs, pus corpuscles, etc., are also sought 
for. 

Certification of milk requires periodical inspection of 




188 ANIMAL FOODS 

dairiea, of bottled milk bought in open market, etc. All milk 
luust correspond to a number and variety of teats, too numer- 
ous to be mentioned in this connection. Every branch of 
the milk trade is covered. Such milk receives a certificate 
which should contain the date of milking and is naturally ex- 
pensive, but it should be used whenever possible for infanta 
and little children, and for all purposes in households which 
buy the best grades of other food materials. 

Pasteunzaiian. This is the process by which milk ia ren- 
dered more or less sterile through destruction of active bac- 
teria by heat. Various standards as to temperature and 
time have been adopted, but in general the milk ia heated 
to a temperature not exceeding 167° F., for a period of 20 to 
45 minutes, and then rapidly cooled to 45° F. or lower. 
Most harmful bacteria and lactic acid bacteria are killed. 
Spores are not killed, and if the milk is not kept cold or ia 
allowed to stand too long, putrefactive organisms develop. 
These putrefactive changes are very undesirable, so that the 
care of pasteurized milk is just as important as that of fresh 
milk. If carelessly handled, the fact that it does not sour 
readily is a menace to health rather than a benelit. 

Commepeial paatenrization ia a cheap and effective means of 
preventing the spread of ordinary infectious diseases. The 
degree of heat used does not change materially the flavor nor 
the chemical composition of the milk. It does destroy the 
enzymes naturally present in milk, and how much this affects 
the value of milk for infants is still unsettled. ^Hien clean 
fresh milk cannot be absolutely insured, it is safer to pas* 
teurize. But this process cannot make bad railk good nor 
dirty milk clean. If bacteria have already produced poison- 
ous products it will not destroy them. 

Sterilization. Sterilization is accomplished by keeping 
milk at boiling temperature (313° F.) for 10 or more minutes, 
preferably in the vessel in which it is to remain. This will 
kill all living bacteria, but will not destroy spores. Hence 
to render milk absolutely sterile, repetition of the process on 
necessary. This is rarely done, as the 




MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



189 ' 



spores are not likely to develop if the milk is kept at a 
temperature of 40° P. or less. 

Sterilized milk is not an ideal food. Boiling changes the 
taste, tlie cream does not rise as quickly, and it is less easily 
coagulated by the action of rennet. Lecithin is decomposed, 
diminishing the amount of organic phosphorus compounds, 
and increasing the inorganic phosphorus which is not as use- 
ful to the body. The calcium salts are changed, and the 
ferments of the milk destroyed. Sterilization should be re- 
garded as an emergency measure, for hot weather, when cool- 
ing facilities are lacking. 

MILE PROSUGTB 

Buiter. Butter consists almost entirely of separated milk 
fat. Churning causes the fat globules to unite into a solid 
mass. The cream is first allowed to ripen for some hours. 
This process gives the characteristic taste and odor, which is 
due to action of bacteria. AVhen kept, butter tends to turn 
rancid, owing to the fermentation of a small quantity of casein 
present. Salt is added largely to prevent this change. But- 
ter is very palatable, and one of the most digestible forma 
of fat. 

Cheese. Cheese is made from full milk, skim milk or 
cream. It consists of the casein of the milk and more or 
less of the fat and mineral matters. The flavor is due to the 
action of enzymes in molds or bacteria. Cheese is a very 
concentrated nutritious food, and very thoroughly assimilated. 
It is not usually well borne by invalids and convalescents, 
however. 

Cream. Cream is the fatty layer which forms at the top 
of milk which is allowed to stand undisturbed. It contains 
the fat of the milk, water, some protein, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The percentage of fat is exceedingly vari- 
able, ranging from about 16 per cent, to 40 per cent. The 
cream which rises on milk after 24 hours is called gravity 
cream and contains about 16 per cent, fat. The richer creams 
are obtained by centrifugalizing the milk. Cream in large 



i 



190 



ANIMAL FOODS 



quantities is less easily digeeted than an equal amount of" ' 
whole milk because of the large amount of fat, but this form 
of fat is easily digested compared with other food fats, and 
hence la often ordered by physicians. 

Curds. When milk sours, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid by the action of lactic acid bacteria upon the 
sugar, or when the enzyme rennet is added to fresh milk at 
body temperature, and the clot is stirred, the curds separate 
from the whey. 

Curds consist of coagulated casein, which commonly car- 
ries with it the fat ; gentle beat facilities this separation, but 
a high temperature renders the curd tough and indigestible ; 
with or without the addition of cream, curds are used as 
cottage cheese. It is a very cheap, nutritious food. 

Junket. If sweet mitk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet, the thickened, custard-like mass 
is called junket. This is a valuable method of using milk, 
especially for invalids, children, and those who from personal 
idioayncrasy cannot drink milk. 

Whey. Tliia substance may be either sweet when formed 
by junket or sour when otherwise produced. It contains 
most of the lactose, lactalbumin and ash constituents of the 
milk, but has so little nutritive value, owing to the removal of 
the milk fat and casein, that it may be regarded as a beverage. 
See page 185. 

Sour Milk. When whole mQk sours, with the formation 
of " curds and whey," the entire product is known as clabber 
or bonny-clabber. It is wholesome, and nutritious, since it 
contains all the ingredients naturally present in milk. By 
some it is used as a beverage. When not so relished, it can be 
used to good advantage in cooking, adding its nutritive value 
to any dish in which it is incorporated. 

Buttermilk. True buttermilk, which is common on farms, 
is seldom found in commerce. Unless produced where sold, 
ita genuineness may be a matter of question. Those who are 
familiar with the genuine article state that the delicacy of 
its flavor, its consistency, etc., are much superior to the ao- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



r called buttermilk of commerce. The composition of the two 
articles is practically the same. Wlien skim milk, the cream 
having been removed by the separator, is allowed to sour, it 
is said to resemble ordinary bulrt:ermilk, and the fluid which 
goes by the latter name, sold extensively throughout Greater 
Kew York, is said to be sour akira milk, 

Metschnickoff Artificially Soured Milk. The announce- 
ment some years ago by Metschnickoff that the foregoing 
products were of very great hygienic and therapeutic value in 
disinfecting the intestines has resulted in the wholesale pro- 
duction of a substance which differs from ordinary sour 
milk in that it is prepared from a pure culture of lactic- 
acid germs. This product is doubtless destined to replace 
the older ones on account of its freedom from undesirable 
forms of bacteria. The technique for preparing it, devised 
originally by Metschnickoff himself, also places it in a higher 
class than the older preparations. The pure culture is sold 
in the solid form as Buttermilk Tablets. 

Fermented Milk. Milk which has been fermented is really 
a derivative of native milk, and in parts of Europe and Asia 
constitutes an important article of diet. The fermentation 
is either the lactic alone or lactic and alcoholic together. 

The ferments used consist chiefly of various " leavens " 
or cultures which cause lactic acid fermentation. People who 
have subsisted on this milk for centuries simply use a por- 
tion of old fermented milk to leaven fresh milk. These 
leavens vary considerably in composition, and the milk used 
may be from one of several domestic animals. Some leavens 
contain yeast germs, as that alcohol may or may not be 
present. The native preparations which have been imitated 
in this country are kumyss, kefir and matzoon. 

Kumyss was prepared originally from mares' milk. The 
leaven contains lactic acid germs and yeast. The product 
therefore contains lactic acid, alcohol, and carbonic acid 
gas, representing an acid, effervescing, mildly alcoholic bev- 
erage. The casein curd is finely broken up and partially 
Kumyss has been imitated in America by adding 



I 
I 




192 



ANIMAL FOODS 



I 



yeaet to milk and allowing fermentation to 
four hours or over. 

Kefir was made originally from cows' milk with a leaven 
of kumyas. This has been sold in tablet form like tlie ren- 
net ferment. Kefir resembles kumyss so eloaelj that no 
further description ia. necessary. 

Matzoon differs from the preceding chiefly in containing 
no alcohol. 

Modified Milk ie milk containing definite proportions of 
fat, sugar, proteida, etc., put up usually according to the 
formula of a physician, who prescribes the quantity of the 
different constituents he desires. 

For sick children and in convalescence it is of great value 
to obtain a modification in which the composition is definite 
and accurate. It can then be known what mixtures will agree 
with the patient. 

Malted Milk ia a pure food prepared from rich full-cream 
milk, combined with the valuable nutritive extracts of malted 
barley and wheat. This product being highly concentrated 
and partially predigested, supplies a large amount of nutrition 
with little tax upon the digestive organs. It is a valuable 
nutrient in dyspepsia or impaired digestion, for fever and 
wasting diseases, the convalescent, nursing mothers, and the 
aged. 

Peptanised Milk is milk in which the casein or curd has 
been made soluble and diffusible by means of the Peptonising 
Tubes. In these Peptonising Tubes, extractuni pancreatis, 
containing the pancreatic ferment which acts especially upon 
the proteins of milk, is combined with soda bicarbonate in 
due proportion, and each tube contains sufficient peptonising 
powder to peptonise a pint of milk. Milk may be peptonised 
by various methods — by the "cold process," "immediate 
process," "warm process," etc. The method and degree of 
peptoniaation suitable for any special case is soon determined 
by experience, by the agreeability of the milk and its digesti- 
bility. 

Condensed Milk. Preservation of milk by condensation 



I MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 193 

conatitutea a very extensive commercial industry. There are ( 
several procesaea in vogue, and the product is either sweet- ( 
ened or unsweetened. Ordinary unsweetened milk contains 
about 13 per cent, each of protein and fat and 16 per cent. ■ 
of the native milk sugar, making the total solids 40 per cent. 
Cane sugar may be added to tlie amount of about 40 per cent, 
more, making the total solids 80 per cent. Milk may also , 
be condensed by forcing filtered air through it, until its vol- 
ume is reduced to one-fourth the original amount. This 
product is sold in sterile bottles. Condensed milk la very 
generally used as a substitute for fresh milk. It is especially 
valuable in tropical regions and on ocean voyages. It is 
important that condensed milk be made from clean milk, and 
kept free from bacteria contamination. The unsweetened 
brands are especially liable to putrefaction, and should be 
cared for, when opened, like fresh milk. 

Desiccated Millc. ^Tien the proceas of condensation has 
been carried to complete expulsion of all fluid matter, a 
I powder may be obtained which is sold as milk powder, des- 
iccated milk, etc. 

ENEEGT VALUE OF MIIK 

I cup of whole milk ^ 169 Caloriea. 

1 pup skimmed milk = 89 Calories. 

1 oup cream ( 18% ) — 440 Calories. 

1 cup cream (40%) =804 Calories. 

lASTETJRIZATIOn 

Methods of Preparing. Put bottle into kettle of cold 

• irater and slowly bring to the boiling point. Boil ten minutes. 

After which fill immediately nearly full with milk; cork with 

absorbent cotton which has been baked in the oven until a 

delicate brown. Place bottles on a rest in a deep pan so that 

they will not touch bottom, and fill the pan with cold water to 

I reach as high as the milk in bottles. Heat water gradually to 

1 1S5 to 167 degrees Fahrenheit, or until small bubbles appear 

I in the milk next to the glass. Remove to back of stove and 

I keep milk nt same temperature 20 to 45 minutes; then cool 




194 



ANIMAL FOODS 



I 



qnickly to 45 degrees or lower. To cool rapidly put bottleo 
first into luitewarm water and then cold water until milk is 
cold, then Burround witii ice water. Keep in cold place and 
do not remove stoppers until ready to use. Note Pasteuriza- 
tion, page 188. 

Utensils. A convenient form of apparatus for pasteuriza- 
tion is known as the Hygeia Pasteurizer or Sterilizer. Or 
a covered tin pail answers well for the larger veaael, and an 
inverted pie pan with perforated bottom can serve as the 
false bottom. A hole may be pimched in the cover of the 
pail, a cork inserted and a chemical thermometer put through 
the cork so that the bulb dips in the water, thus enabling one 
to watch the temperature closely without removing the cover, 
or an ordinary dairy thermometer may be used from time 
to time by removing the lid. 

STEBUJZATION 

The utensils and methods to sterilize milk are the same as 
for pasteurizing, except that the water is heated to the boil- 
ing point (S1S° F.) and the time for boiling is ten or more 
minutes. Not« Sterilization, page 188, 

XVAPOBATED KILK 

It is sometimes of advantage, as in cases of dilated sto 
ach or whenever the total amount of fluids must be cut down 
to a given point, to heat the milk in a pan over which is 
placed an inverted funnel. Much of the water of the milk - 
passes off as vapor, while the solids remain in the pan. 

BAZEO KIXE 

Into a stone jar put one-half gallon of sweet milk; c 
with writing paper and tie it on. Bake in moderate oven 
nine to ten hours. It will be the consistency of thick cream, 

HALTED MILK, 69 CALOEIES 

Mix one tablespoon of Horlick'e Malted Milk powder with 
a little tepid water to make a smooth paste ; add three-fonrths 
cup water, hot or cold, stirring briskly and serve. 



straw^^ 
wn 
is 
ilk 




MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 195 

Note. — May be prepared with hot milk instead of watert 
and a little cream added if desired. H 

PEPTONISES KILE, 338 CALORIES ^ 

W&Ttn. Froceis 

Pat one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) into a 
clean quart bottle and shake thoroughly; add a pint of cold 
fresh milk and shake again ; then place the bottle in a pail 
or kettle of warm water — about 115° F., or not too hot to 
immerse the whole hand in it without discomfort. Keep 
the bottle in the water bath for five or ten minutes, or longer 
if it is desired to peptoniae the milk quite completely, then 
put it immediately on ice — directly in contact with the ice 
— in order to check the process of digestion and keep the milk 
from spoiling. 

The degree of peptoniaation is very simply regulated in 
this process by the length of time during which the milk is 
kept in the water bath. It is seldom necessary to peptoniae 
milk until it becomes bitter. 

FARTIAILT PEFTONISES HILE, 338 CALOBIEB 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and thi' powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) into a 
clean saucepan, and stir well; add a pint of cold fresh milk, 
and heat, with constant stirring, to boiling point. The heat 
should be so applied that the milk will come to a boil in ten 
minutes. Let it cool to about lukewarm, then strain into a 
clean bottle or giasa jar, cork tightly and keep in a cold 
place. The bottle or ]ar should always he well shaken before 
and after pouring out a portion. The milk may be taken 
cold or hot as the physician may direct. 

"Partially peptonised milk" if properly prepared n'lll not 
become bitter. 

PEPTOniSES MHZ, 338 CALORIES 
Cotd Procesa 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water into a clean quart 
bottle and dissolve in it by shaking thoroughly the powder 



190 ANIMAL FOODS 

contained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) ; add 

II pint of cold fresh milk, shake the bottle again, and im- 
medialchj place it on ice — directly in contact with the ice. 

'I'lio bottle should always be well shaken before and after 
pouring out a portion. 

rvptunised tnilk prepared by this recipe is especially ap- 
prwiatvd by jxitients who dislike the taste of warmed or 
hui/t'd in ilk", and ordinarily it is readily digested and assimu 
ItitnL 

PEPTONISED lOLK 
Immediate Prooeu 

Put. iwo iablospoons (1 oz.) of cold water into a goblet 
nr f^IiiHH; ilissolvo in this one-quarter of the contents of a 
IN'pltinlHin^ Tube (Fairchild) ; add eight tablespoonfuls 
(1 n/.s.) of warm milk — not boiling; drink immediately, 
Hipping HK>wly : S5 calorics. 

T(i pi'cpnrt' hair n pint of milk, use half the contents of a 
rrptitnisiu^ Tubo. I tablespoonfuls of water, a half pint of 

III I Ik ; !<»!> ralorios. 

HrKCIALLY PEPTONISEB lOLK, 388 CAL0SZS8 

ir«ir Mukliitf Milk Jelly. Milk Punch. XUk Lemonade, and for tTie 

with Fruit Juices or Acids 

IN'plonist' a pint v^f milk by the "Warm Process/* keep- 
ing! (Ih< l»»»ulr ill \\w \v;Uor bath for one hour; pour the pep- 
ImiiImimI niilk \\\U^ a sauoopan and heat to boiling, when it is 
II iiil\ loi \iM' 1 1' M is vtHpiirod hot : or it may be put on ice, in 
ii liuiilo \M i\\\\ suiuiMo oomaiuor* to be used for punches^ 

li iiM>hihl(\ \M\' 

ll I. n*Ax' -.MX w poptvmiso tho milk quite completely — 
(hi «iiu' lu'ui M' iluu ir will not curdle when mixed with 
liiih'M \\\\^^' \M iwul 'V\w Mttcr tsste of this ''speciaUy 
iM|ih»m»»l nnl\ " Is Uv*; o^'AV^lC in the jellies^, pmiches, etc., 
iiihl {\\\\' Iv^'nI" .ux* \o'v iisT'sWable and exceediof^y assimil- 

(ni.i k .U.i pui M^'Mo -'vvvv k'TAo'vCvl iv.'^ and fill it half- 
iuti \>i \ix^\. \(s'!'m».i!<< ,v- svy:v:i water, add immediately 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 1 

peptoniBed milk prepared by any of the prescribed methods 
and drink while efferveacing. Brandy or other spirita may be 
added if desired. 

TEICEXITED MILX 
See Flour Gmel. Page 239. 

KICE HUE, 468 CUOEIES 
1 ounce rioe. 1 saltspoon B«lt. 

1 pint Hcalded milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Soak rice twelve houra, atrain and add the scalded milk, 
salt and sugar. Stir well and cook alowly one hour. Hub 
through a fine sieve (thin with more hot mi!k if desired). 
Taste and add more aeaaoning if necesaary. Sago or tapioca 
may be uaed in the aame way. 

XUH AND KIXE, 1S6 CALORIES 
% cup milk. 3 Yi teaspoon eugar. 

^ tablespoon rum or brandj. 

Use fresh or pasteurized milk. Put ingredients into a 
lemonade shaker or fruit jar (using rubber band and cover) ; 
cover well and shake until frothy. Serve in glass three- 
fourth a filled. 

SHEBRT OR BKAIIDY ANO MILE, 173 CAL0SIE8 
% cup fresh milk. \ teaspoon sugar, 

% tablespoon braodj or Nutmeg. 

% wineglass of sherry. 

Blend as for " Rum and Milk." Fill glass three-fourths 
full and add a grating of nutmeg on top. 

CIKITAMOIT ASS MIXK. 132 CALOEIES i 



Boil milk, with auflBcient cinnamon to flavor pleasantly, 
and Bweeten. Thia may be taken cold with the brandy. 
Very good in eases of diarrhcea. Children may take it warm 

without brandy. 
■ WIthoDt aagftr. • 



198 ANIMAL FOODS 

WHEY 

6^4 ounces whey = 50 Calories. 

1 cup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet, dissolved 
in the cold water. Allow it to jelly in a warm place. Then 
break up the curd and strain through two thicknesses of 
cheese-cloth, being careful to remove all the casein. Serve 
cold, with or without sweetening, and flavor as desired. 

LiairiD PEPTONOIDS AND WHEY 

Place one tablespoonful of finely cracked ice in a small tea- 
cup. Pour over it one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids; 
stir, fill the cup with whey and drink slowly. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages '' for recipe. Page 113. 

LEMON WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages " for recipe. Page 113. 

WINE WHEY 

See " Acid Beverages '' for recipe. Page 113. 

PANOPEPTON WITH WHEY 

Put into a small teacup one or two teaspoonfuls of clean 
crushed ice; add one tablespoonful of Panopepton, stir, then 
fill the cup with Avhey. Drink slowly. This is very refresh- 
ing and nourishing — an admirable liquid food for fever 
patients and convalescents. 

KTTHYSS, 328 CALORIES 

i cake Fleischmann's yeast. 1 tablespoon water. 

1% tablespoons sugar. 1 quart milk. 

Make a thin syrup of the sugar and water and cook one 
minute. Soften the yeast in two tablespoons of lukewarm 
inilk. Heat the milk until lukewarm, add other ingredients 
and shake. Put in sterile patent beer bottles, place in up- 
right position for twelve hours, at 70 degrees Fahrenheit 
^(or comfortably warm room) ; then turn on side at heat 



MILE AND MILE PRODUCTS 199 

SO degrees Fahrenheit (lower part of ice-box). Beady for 
use after the first twenty-four hours ; often kept several days, 
but the longer it is kept the less palatable it is. Do not 
open a bottle of kumysa without a champagne tap, or the 
cork may be punctured with a stout needle to let the gas 
eaeape. It should look like thick, foamy cream. 

Kumyss is especially suited for many forma of indigestion, 
nausea, fever and gastric trouble, pulmonary consuuiption and 
other wasting disease. 

Dr. Brush's prepared kumyss is reeomraonded on account 
of its superiority over the home-made preparations, as the 
milk supply is controlled, and the method of preparing is 
carried out upon scientific bases. It is also more convenient, 
as it is ready for immediate use, 

UATZOON OK ZOOLAE (OEKMAN HOSPITAL, XEW YORE CIT7) 
1 pint ^338 Calories. 

Take forty-five pints of milk, boil thoroughly. Cream 
two or three times; that ia, until all the cream is removed. 
When the milk is stiU quite warm add two (S) bottles of 
prepared bottled Zoolak. Mix thoroughly. Bottle quickly in 
pint bottles, not entirely full, Cork tightly immediately, and 
put in a warm place till the liquid shows creamy through the 
bottles. Then place and keep in a cold place. 

N". B. — If chilled before it is thick it remains thin and 
the flavor is spoiled. If not kept very cold after it is made 
the fermentation is carried too far. 

jniTEET, 168 CAXOBIES 
1 cup fresh milk, 1 teaspoon, cold water. 

14 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet dissolved 
in the cold water: allow it to jelly in a warm place: chill in 
ice-box; serve plain or in the various ways as directed in 
chapter " Nutritious Desserts." 

ASirFICIAL OK EOXEHADE BTTTTEBKILE 
1 eup (whole milk buttermilk) =160 Calories. 

Pasteurize fresh, sweet milk, which may be new, or partly 



I 



i 



800 ANIMAL FOODS 

skimmed, or entirely fat-free, as desired, by heating it t^ 
between 160 and 175 degrees F, and holding at Bucii tem- 
perature for at least SO minuteB, cool to 100 degrees. 

Dissolve one Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablet in a table- 
spoon of cold milk or water and add a quart or less of the 
pasteurized milk, lieave in warm room until thick, 24 to 
36 hours. 

When milk has thickened, place in refrigerator. ^Vlle^ 
cold, " Chum " by shaking the bottle vigorously for a minute 
or two. Or the milk may he prepared in a fruit jar, a bowl 
or a pitcher and heaten with an egg beater until smooth and 
creamy. 

If the acid flavor is too mild, let stand cold another day. 

If desired, the milk may he diluted with one-fourth water, 
A pinch of salt may be added. 

Junket Buttermilk may he kept on ice or in refrigerator 
for a week or longer. ^_ 



SWEETBREADS ^M 

Among epicures sweetbreads are considered a dainty and 
are certainly a moat acceptable food for the sick, as tliey are 
easily digested, but they must not be used to excess on account 
of the large amount of uric acid which they produce. 

Definition. Sweetbreads are the pancreas and thymus 
glands of the calf, the word being used for either one or 
both organs. The thjmus glands are removed and used for 
food while the animal lives on milk. The pancreas of the 
calf is som.etimea called stomach sweetbread, and the thymus 
gland the neck or throat sweetbread. The latter is con- 
sidered somewhat more easily digested than the former. 

DigestihUiiy. It is an error to state that sweetbreads are 
more digestible because they contain digestive ferments in 
life, for these are destroyed by cooking. The tenderness of 
these bodies is due doubtless to the delicate character of the 
connective tissue, and to the soft character of the gland tis- 
sue itself, which is rich in nucleo-protein. The presence of 



SWEETBREADS 301 

thia nuelein is objectionable for gouty and other patients 
with uric acid diBorders, but thiB is no contraindication for 
an occaBional use of them by invalids. 

EITEBGT VALUE OF SWEETBKEADS 

100 Rrama {3'/^ ok.) sweetbrends = 176 Calories. 

1 pair stteetbreada, medium size (S oz.) . . =: 399 Calories. 

1 pair Bweetbreada, mediuci size (8 or..}, whpn cooked, freed from 

niembraae, pipe, ttc, ond cut joto cubes, lueaaures three-fourths 

TO FSEPARE SWEETBBEASB 
(To PsTboil.) 

Bemove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge 
into cold water and allow to stand one hour. Drain. Place 
immediately in boiling water salted water to cover, allowing 
one-half tablespoon each of salt and vinegar to a pair of 
aweetbreada. Simmer twenty minutes ; again drain and 
plunge into cold water that they may keep white and firm. 
Free from membrane fat and veins, and serve as desired. 

Sweetbreads are always prepared in this way for subae- 
quent cooking and are spoken of as parboiled. 

BBOILES SWEETBREADS 

Parboil and cut in halves crosa-wise. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, place on a greased fine wire broiler, and broil 
five minutes over a clear fire. As soon as sweetbread is 
heated brush both sides with a little melted butter. Serve 
with creamed butter to which has been added a little lemon 
juice or simply spread with soft butter, 

CBEAHED BWEETBBEABS KO. I, 28S GAXOBIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
Vi tableBpoon butter. % cup milk. 

'/j tablespoon flour. '/^ cup aweetbreada. 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour on gradually the scald- 
ing milk. Cook thoroughly and season. Add the parboiled 
sweetbreads cut in small pieces, reheat and serve on toast and 
garnish with parsley. 



1 



»02 ANIMAL FOODS 

Xote. — For Scalloped Sweetbreads put creamed sweetbreads 
in small baking dish ; cover with cracker crumbs and dot with 

bits of butter ; bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

* 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. II, 968 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1 cup thin cream or rich milk. % teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup sweetbreads. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into one-half inch cubes. 
Blend flour with a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture ; 
scald cream in double boiler, add the flour mixture and cook 
thoroughly. Just before serving add the prepared sweet- 
breads, salt and butter. Serve hot on toasted rounds, and 
garnish with parsley, or use as a filling for Swedish tim- 
bales. 

Note. — May use equal proportions of cold cooked chicken 
and sweetbreads, reheat and serve in the cream sauce. 

FRICASSEED SWEETBREADS, 240 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 

Parboil and cut sweetbread into one-half inch pieces. 
Make a sauce using: 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup hot strong chicken broth. 

1 teaspoon flour. l^ cup cream. 

^ teaspoon lemon juice. Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, allow it to simmer until 
a golden brown, then add the hot broth gradually, stirring 
constantly, lastly the cream. Season with salt, -pepper and 
lemon juice. A speck of curry powder may be added if 
desired. 

Put the cut sweetbread into the sauce, simmer five minutes 
and serve on sippets or squares of dry toast; garnish with 
parsley. 

SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS 
1 cup of canned peas = 100 Calories. 
Parboil and broil sweetbreads, arrange in center of plat- 
ter, and serve the peas (cooked and seasoned) around them. 

^Calculated without the sweetbreads. 



GELATIN 203 

Or the peas may be piled in center of platter and the broiled 
sweetbreads arranged as a, border, A cream sauce may be 
poured over all; for it, uae the recipe in Creamed Sweet- 
breads No. I or 11, 

GELATIN 

Source. Gelatin is a nitrogenous food classed with pro- 
teins, under the division called gelatinoids or albuminoids, and 
derived from " collagen," the chief constituent of connective 
tissue with its various modifications, as tendons, "chondri- 
gen " of cartilage, or the " ossein " of bone. " By proper 
treatment, any form of connective tissue can be made to yield 
gelatin. Hide clippings yield glue, a crude form of gelatin, 
and much commercial gelatin is simply a purified glue, derived 
from such a source. Isinglass, obtained from the swimming 
bladder of the sturgeon and other fish, is the purest form of 
gelatin; the gelatin obtained from calves' feet is also of high 
quality." ' 

General Principles in CooHng. Gelatin is insoluble in 
cold water, but when allowed to stand in it will swell from 
absorption of water. "Gelatin is very soluble in boiling 
water, and on cooling sets into a jelly. This jellying will 
occur in a solution containing as little as 1 per cent, of 
gelatin." ' Gelatin is decomposed by boiling and conse- 
quently if allowed to hoi! will not solidify on cooling. 

Digestibility. Gelatin is very easily digested in the stom- 
ach, and readily absorbed from the small intestines. 

Nutritive Value. Although gelatin is a protein food, it 
cannot alone support life. Proteins are made up of groups 
of amino acids, most of which it seems necessary to have 
represented in the diet, to secure complete repair of the waste 
of nitrogenous tissue. In gelatin two important acids are 
lacking; hence not more than two-thirds of the day's nitrogen 
requirement should be given in the form of gelatin. Because 

'SUte of OonnMlleut. R*port p( The ConneclEcnt Aerirnltural Eiperi- 



204 ANIMAL FOODS 

it can to this extent take the place of other proteins, gelatin 
has often been called a "protein-sparer/^ rather than a true 
protein. In the ordinary intake of animal food, not more 
than one-eighth of the total nitrogen is in the form of gelatin. 
It is usually not convenient to take more than 25 to 30 
grams (about 1 ounce) in a day. Six ounces of calf's foot 
jelly (which would be a large helping) contain less than half 
an ounce of gelatin. Jellying will occur in a solution con- 
taining as little as 1 per cent, of gelatin. Grelatin has the 
advantage (along with other proteins) of fixing a good deal 
of acid in the process of stomach digestion and is thus of 
service in cases of hyperacidity of the stomach, when given 
in oilier forms than acid jellies. It seems also to promote 
the secretion of gastric juice. It is useful in febrile states 
as it really belongs with liquid foods, melting as it does at 
body temperature. 

In convalescence, acid jellies (orange, lemon, etc.,) are of 
eervice as a pleasant supplement to the ordinary diet, but the 
actual nutriment which they supply is small. 

Extra nutriment can be added to gelatin by combining it 
with (^[gs and milk^ as in Snow Pudding, Charlottes of 
various kinds, Spanish Cream, ete^ all of whidi are attrac- 
tive forms of invalid diet. 

Mfni JMes are ix^ndtmsed form of broth, and are prepared 
by taking any meat <>(Hitaining a large proportioi of oomiee- 
tiTv t&«s^ue$ and <cooking long and slowly. (Xote broths^ page 
:^n f^oir diveK^flons and recipes. H HcaneHOEiade jjdllies, prop- 
erty piepaieid. have a pleasing flavor and are an agieedble 
aidii^KJoii tx> d5et of an invalid, although tbeir n^tridve vahie 
ii$ low. 

wm jixxT sml X. ics caiAuss 



GELATIN SOS I 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
wafer and dissolve. Add sugar, wine, orange and lemon 
juice. When sugar is dissolved, strain through a cheese- 
cloth into cold, wet molds ; or chill in shallow soup plate 
and when firm cut into one-half inch cubes and serve in 
sherbert or champagne glasses, or half orange shell with a 
little whipped cream on top. 

WIITE JELLY NO. II, 1E30 CAXOBIES 

(Sis Servings. ) 
Y^ box shredded gelatin or 2 ciipa boiling water, 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup wine. 
'/s cup cold water. Speck salt. 

I'/a cups Bugar. 

Cover gelatin with the cold water and let it stand about 
one-half hour. Add the boiling water, sugar and salt. Stir 
till gelatin is dissolved and add the wine. Strain through 
cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds and set in cold place 
to harden. Serve plain or with whipped cream, 

TEFTONOIDS WINE 7XZXT, 192 CAIOKIES 

% box gelotin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

8 tablespoons boiling water. 1 tablespoon Liquid Feptonoids. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar, wine and Liquid Feptonoids. When sugar is 
dissolved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

OBANQE TELLT NO. I, 1020 CAIOKIEB 

(Six Servings.) 
V: box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup orange juice. 
14 cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water one-half hour ; add the 
boiling water and dissolve. Add sugar and fruit juice, 
Htrain through a cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds 



6 ANIMAL FOODS 

«Dd set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

OHAHQE JELIT NO. II, 1S2 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) ^H 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 3 tableBpoons orange juice. ^^| 

1 tablfspoon cold water. 2 tcuapoons lemou juice. ^^H 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 2 tablespoona sugar. ^H 

Make same as preceding. Soaking gelatin iive minutes. 

Cut orange in half, crosawiBe, remove pulp with spoon 
and strain tlirough cheese-cloth. Pill halves with jelly; when 
it is hardened cut with sharp knife into thirds (which leaves 
the rim filled with jelly). Serve three pieces on small plate 
with whipped cream in center. 



ORANGE 

Wash oranges. Itemove two sections from the upper half 
of an orange, leaving a band of peel for a handle. Dig out 
the pulp and scrape clean. Fill with lemon or orange jelly, 
cut into cubes. An attractive form to serve to children, 

Note. — "If these shells are wrapped in a damp cloth th^ 
will retain their shape for hours. 

LEMOK JELLY, 142 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons lemon juioe. 
1 tablespoon cold water, 2 tablespoons sugar. 

y^ cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes : add the boiling 
water, sugar and fruit juice. When the sugar is dissolved, 
pour into cold, wet molds and put on ice to harden. 

ORAPE JELLT, S8B CALORIES J 

(Individual Rule.) H 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. % cup sugar. f 

y, cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. Vi cup Welch's grape juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water; add boiling water and 
dissolve. Add sugar, lemon juice and grape juice; strain, 
pour into cold, wet molds and cool. 



I 



GELATIN 207 

This recipe may be served in another and very inviting 
form; when the gelatin is firm, force it through a potato; 
rieer. Keep on ice until ready to serve. 

PEACH JELLY, 130 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 1^ tablespoons sugar. 

3 tablespoons peach juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add boiling 
water and dissolve. Acjd fruit juice, wine and sugar, strain 
and pour into a cold, wet mold. 

COFFEE JELLY, 529 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 7 tablespoons cream. 

2 tablespoons strong hot coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes. Add the hot 
coffee and dissolve; add sugar and strain. Set bowl into 
chopped ice, or ice water to cool, stirring occasionally until 
it thickens. Then add the cream, and pour into cold, wet 
molds to chill. 

PEPTONOIDS COFFEE JELLY, 255 CALORIES i 

14 hox granulated gelatin. Sugar to taste. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 8 tablespoons Liquid Peptonoids. 
8 tablespoons boiling coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
coffee, sugar and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is dis- 
solved, strain and pour into ,cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

CREAM JELLY, 330 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 tablespoon sugkr. 

1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons scalded milk« Vanilla to taste. 

4 tablespoons thick cream. 

••«■•> , - 
»•■._. ( 

^Without sugar. 



308 ANIMAL FOODS ^ 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the 
scalded milk and dissolve. Add the sugar, salt, cream and 
vanilla. Stir occasionally until the mixture thickens; pour 
into cold, wet after-dinner coffee cups, or egg cups, and chill. 
Serve with Soft Custard, or cream and sugar. ^M 

FEf TOITISED UIIK JELLT, S17 CALORIES i ^M 

(Three Serrings.) ^ 

1 pint " specially peptoniscd Riada and juice of one fresh 

milk," hot. lemon and orange 

^ box: gelatin. 2 or 3 tablespoons best St. CroiK 

Sugar to taste. rum, or brandy, etc. 

Soak the gelatiii in a cup of cold water, pour the hot milk 
over it and add the sugar; etir until dissolved, then throw 
in the lemon and orange rinds. 

Squeeze the juice of the lemon and orange into a glass 
and strain ; stir in the rum or brandy, etc., then mix with the 
milk and gelatin; strain, 

T\Tien the mixture has cooled to a syrup so as to bo almost 
ready to set, pour into molds or glasses wet in cold water 
and put on ice or in cold water or in a cold place to harden ; 
if it is too warm when poured into the molds, it is apt 
to separate in setting. 



PAITOPETTDN TELXT, 242 CAIORIES 

(Tbre 



2 daabas pepper. 

6 tablespoons Fanopepton. 

2 cupa cold wat«r. 



1 ounce fresh celery (cut 

in small pieces ), 
y^ small box best gelatin. 
>^ teaspoon salt., 

Soak the gelatin in one-half cupful of cold water for one 
hour; put tha water and celery in a double boiler on the 
iire and simmer one-half hour; add the salt, pepper, and 
soaked gelatin and stir until it is dissolved; remove from 
fire, add Panopepton; stir, and strain through linen into 
jelly-jar, and set near ice. Serve in amall quantities. 

1 WilhonC aniBT. 



I 




GELATIN : 

FASOPEPTOIT JELLT WITH OEABQE, 379 CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.) 
'^ Bmall box beat gelatin. Juice anJ pepl o[ 1 orange. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 pint cold water, 

G tables poons FunopeptOD. 

Put the gelatin, orange peel (cut in small pieces), orange 
juice, and cold water in a dish and let it stand for one hour, 
then put in a double boiler on the fire, add the sugar and stir 
until it is dissolved; now strain through linen, add the Pano- 
pepton and stir well. Pour into a jelly-jar and set near ice. 
Serve in small quantities. 

HEAT JELLIES 

See " Meat Jellies " for recipe. Page 321. 
STABCHT JELLIES 

See " Starchy Jellies " for recipe. Page 2i4. 

SNOW PITDDING, 934 CALOEIES 

(Sii Servings.) 
y^ box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

1 tftblespoon granulated gelatin, '/t cup lemon juice. 
U cup cold water. Whites 3 egga. 

1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

Soften gelatin in cold water, add boiling water and dis- 
solve. Add sugar, fruit juice and extract, and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Set bowl into chopped ice, or ice water, 
to cool, stirring occasionally; when jelly is quite thick fold 
in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, and put into cold, wet 
molds. Put on ice to harden. When firm, remove from 
molds and serve with Soft Custard No. 1. 

SNOW ruDBIKG, 2S2 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons granulated gelatin. I■^ tablespoons lemon juice, 

3 tablespoons eold water. 3 tablespoons sugar. 
^ cup boiling water. White I egg. 

Make same as preceding. 



210 ANIMAL FOODS 

SPAinSH CSEAir, 912 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

y^ box shredded gelatin or Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 6 tablespoons sugar. 
y^ cup cold water. y^ teaspoon salt. 

% cup boiling water. Whites 3 eggs. 

2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water, add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Heat the milk in a double-boiler. Beat the 
yolk of eggs, add sugar and salt, and pour the hot milk 
gradually onto the mixture. Eeturn to double-boiler and 
cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add the strained 
gelatin and the flavoring, and fold in carefully the well- 
beaten whites. Pour into cold, wet molds to harden. Serve 
with Soft Custard No. 1, or with Whipped Cream. 

SPANISH CREAM, 303 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. White 1 egg. 

% cup milk. y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding, and serve with Orange Sauce. 

ORANGE SAUCE, 13Q CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

Beat white of one egg very light, add two tablespoons sugar 
gradually, beating constantly, then add one and one-half 
tablespoon orange juice and one teaspoon lemon juice. 

BAVARIAN CREAM, 205 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin. l^ tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. % teaspoon vanilla. 

y^ eup milk. % cup whipped cream. 
Yolk 1 egg. 

Soak gelatin in cold water 5 minutes. Heat the milk and 
poor into the beaten yolk of egg and add this mixture to gela- 



GELATIN 311 ' 

tin; stir until gelatin ia dissolved and flavor. Set in ice water 
to cool, beating almost constantly. When it begins to stiffen, ' 
fold in the whipped cream. Pour into molds. Serve with \ 
whipped cream. 

Note. — Chocolate may be added by omitting flavoring and 
add chocolate to hot milk and dissolve before adding to the 
yolk. 

6EAFE TLTTTF, 967 CALOEIES 
(Six ServiDgB. ) 
Vt box shredded gelatin or 1 cup Welch's grape juice. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. Juice I lemon. 
14 cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 

% cup sugar. 

Soften the gelatin in cold water and disaolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice, 
and strain the gelatin into it. Set in ice and water, and 
stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
add gradually the well-beaten whites of egga, and beat until 
the whole is very light and stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Pile lightly in glass serving-diah, or mold and serve with 
Whipped Cream or Soft Custard. 

ORAITGE CHARLOTTE, 360 CALOKXES 

( Individual Rule. ) 
S teaspoons gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 

1 tablespoon cold water. I tablespoon lemon juice. 

Vj cup boiling water. Whitee 2 eggs, 

% cup sugar. 

Blend as for Orange Gelatin and set the bowl into chopped 
ice or ice-water to cool; stir occasionally. When jelly is 
quite thick, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Mix 
well and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice to harden. 
When firm, remove by dipping mold quickly in warm water; 
loosen with knife, allowing air to enter. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. 1. 

Note. — Line molds with lady flngers or slices of sponge 
cake and pour in the charlotte. 



312 



ANIMAL FOODS 



STRAWBEfiST MOUSSE, 22B4 CALOBIES 
(Six Servings.) 
% box ahredded gelatin or 1 pint thick cream. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin, '/i cup powdered sugar. 
Vj cup cold water. 1 cup strawberry juice. 

■^ cup boiling water. 

Soften the geJatin in the cold water; add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Whip the cream until stiff, and add the pow- 
dered sugar. To the gelatin add the strawberrj juice, fold 
the cream in carefully, turn into a wet mold and pack in 
salt and ice for two hours. AVten ready to serve, turn out of 
mold onto a large glass dish and garnish with fresh straw- 
berries and whipped cream, 

THE BUDE-IIT-A-inirUTE DESSERT, 396 CALOBIES 

Dissolve one package of Jell-0, any flavor, in a pint of 
boiling wafer. Pour into a bowl or mold and put in a 
cold place to harden. When set turn out on a plate and 
serve. 

JELI-D WITH 7HVIT, 39S GALOKIES i 

Dissolve a package of Jcll-O, any flavor, in a pint of boil- 
ing water. Pour into a bowl or mold. Just as Jell-O is 
beginning to set, arrange in it, witli the aid of a fork, sliced 
oranges or bananas, or cherries and currants, or peaches and 
strawberries, or any other fruit that may be preferred for the 
purpose. Set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 



BEEF PREPARATIOHS 

BEEF JUICE — BEEF TEA — EAW BEEF 
BEEF JUICE 

Composilion. The juice of meat contains considerable pro- 
tein, in addition to salts and extractives. 

General Principles in Cooking. From raw meat we can- 
not obtain as much juice as is easily taken from the same 
amount of meat when previously heated. 



4 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 313 

The reason for this is that the envelope enclosing tlie 
muscular tissue is a tough substance, which swells and dis- 
solves when heated, yielding gelatin, and the liquid portion 
of the meat is easily expressed. If cooked too long the pro- 
tein largely coagulateB and the meat loses most of ita moisture 
and becomes tough, 

A steak thoroughly heated through swells, and when cut 
the liquid portion flowa out readily. One pound of meat 
yields about four ounces of juice. 

Care in Serving. In administering beef juice great care 
should be taken in reheating not to heat it above 136 degrees 
Falireuheit, at which temperature albumin coagulates in 
flakes. 

Substitutes for Beef Juice. A solution of white of egg 
flavored with meat extract makes a cheap and efficient sub- 
stitute for beef juice. 

Prepared extracts of good make may be used to advantage 
with beef juice to add flavor and make it more appetizing. 

Absorption. Beef juice is absorbed in the rectum to nearly 
the same extent aa complete peptones and is an excellent 
article of diet where solid foods cannot be given. 

Comparative Food Value of Beef Juice and Beef Tea. 
Beef juice, although fourteen times as rich in protein as 
beef tea, is raw in flavor, and is rejected by many palates. 
In such a case, add a small quantity of beef tea or prepared 
beef extract for flavor. 

Thus by the union of two bodies, one rich in protein and 
the other rich in flavor, we have a superior food. Prepare 
a small quantity at a time, as it does not keep well. 



Composition. Meat treated with hot water contains only 
a small percentage of solids and almost no protein except 
extractive matter and soluble mineral matter. The clear 
liquid which remains when the coagulated albumin is strained 
out of beef tea contains only extractive or flavoring sub- 
stances with the soluble mineral matter of the meat. There- 



214 ASIMAL FOODS 

fore it should not be strained, and if properljr prepaied tbe 
albumin will not be coagulated to 80 giemt an extent. 

Even in strong beef tea which is carefnllT made the amount 
of proteids present has been foond to be leas than 2 per cent 

yutntive Value. Beef tea is valuable in the sick room not 
as a food^ but as a flavoring: the liquid with the heat of the 
water acts as a stimulant. 

Beef Extracts are prepared in both liquid and solid form. 
They have but slight nutritive value, containing but 4 to 5 
per cent, of protein, but are valuable for their flaToring' prop- 
erties. Thev are used to advantage in combination with beef 
juice^ adding flavoring and making it more palatable and 
appetizing. 

EAW BEEF 

Uncooked Meat. Eaw meat is not quite as easily digested 
as cooked meat, and owing to color and flavor is not appetiz- 
ing, and could not be taken continuously. However, when 
chopped fine, or scraped free from connective tissue, it is 
very readily digested and can be served disguised or very 
slightly cooked in many dainty ways. 

Comparative Food Value of Raw Beef and Beef Tea. It 
can readily be seen that raw meat served chopped fine or 
scraped contains all the nutriment of the meat, whereas beef 
tea as seen from the manner of preparation, contains only the 
extractives and soluble mineral matter of meat. 

BEEF XinCE 

100 grams (3^4 oz.) ^25 Calories. 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or top of the round. 
Remove all fat and broil or warm slightly one or two min- 
utes, to set free the juices; lay on plate and cut meat in 
various directions that more juice may be extracted; then 
squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer or 
potato ricer into a slightly warmed cup. Salt if necessary, 
and serve at once. Prepare only enough to serve, as it does 
not keep well. Serve in dainty china cup to disguise color. 
One pound of meat yields four ounces of juice. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 215 

BEEF JUICE (FOR IKFAKTS), 20 CAXOBIEB 

This food is very useful in fonuB of diarrhcea and dysen- 
tery. A half pound of chopped lean meat is made into an 
oval, flat mass, placed on a broiler and slightly browned. 
The juice is then expressed with a small meat press, mixed 
with equal parts of barley water and salted to suit the taste. — 
Koplik. 

BEEF ESSENCE 
100 grama (314 oz.) ^23 Calories. 

Put one-half pound round steak (freed from fat, etc.) 
through a meat chopper; put into small glass fruit jar with 
one tablespoon cold water. Place jar in a kettle of cold 
water, heat gradually and keep at temperature 150 degrees 
Fahrenlieit (which is 62 degrees below the boiling point of 
water) for two hours. Strain and press the meat to obtain 
all the juice. Season with salt. Serve in slightly heated 
dainty china cup to disguise color. 

Note, — A small piece of raw beef, broiled slightly, then 
cut up and added to above, gives a better flavor. 

Liquid thus obtained should be red with albuminous juice 
in solution and not coagulated ; it is nutritious, and may be 
kept in refrigerator twelve hours. Serve in small quantity 
slightly heated ; or it may be made into beef tea by diluting 
with boiling water. Beef essence given ice cold is often 
grateful to a fever patient, 

LiaUID FEFIOITOIDS. 3S CALORIES 

Add one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids to one-half 
cup of boiling water; add pinch of salt. Sip slowly. This 
will be found particularly grateful in painful affections ot 
the throat. 

Note. — To serve cold, pour one tablespoonful Liquid Pep- 
tonoids over a small glass of finely cracked ice. Allow it to 
chill thoroughly and sip slowly. 

BEEF TEA 
V, pound Bteak. Bolt. 

1 cup cold water, 



1 

1 



216 ANIMAL FOODS 

Wipe steak, remove all fat and ctit in small pieces, 
in glass fniit jar, add the coM water and let it stand &fteen 
minutes to draw out the juice. Cover jar, using rubber band 
and coier, place on trivet in a kettle and surround with cold 
water. Allow water to heat slowlv to 150° F. (no higher), 
and keep at this temperature two hours. Strain and season 
with salt. Remove fat with soft paper or bread. Reheat 
over hot water to 130° F. and serve in heated cups. 

Note. — If possible cool beef tea before serving that fat may 
be removed more thoroughly. 

BEEF TEA FBOZEH 
Beef tea may be frozen to the consistency of a water ice. 
Very grateful to a fever patient. 

BEEF TEA WITH HTSBOCHIOKIC ACID 

100 grams 13'/^ oz.) =25 Calories.i 
Select one-half pound of good beef; remove everything that 
is not clear meat. Chop it fine. Put in pint fruit jar and 
add one cup cold water and five drops dilute hydrochloric acid. 
Stir and set in refrigerator or any cold place for two hours 
to digest. Then strain, season with salt and serve in some 
dainty china cup on account of color. If one should object 
to color, heat the tea in a double boiler just till color changes. 
Do not strain. Beef tea made in this way is recommended 
by physicians for feeble children and patients much weakened 
by sickness. 

ICED PABDFEFTON. 3D CALOEIES 

To a small glass half-full of clean crushed Ice add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton; let it stand a moment and then 
sip slowly. 

PAnOPEPTON — HOT, 3S CALOKEES 

To a small teacup two-thirds full of boiling water, add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton, and one teaspoonful of fresh 
lemon juice — a little sugar, if desired — stir. Drink ira- 



BEOTH AND MEAT JELLIES 217 

mediately, sipping slowly. This gives a pleasant sense of 
warmth when one is chilly, and is excellent in cases where 
light nourishment is required before retiring. 

SCRAPES BEEF 

100 gTainB^142 CHlories. 
Wipe a small piece of steak, cut from top of round. Lay 
it on a meat board, and with a sharp knife scrape off the soft 
part until there is nothing left but the tough, stringy iibers. 
Make it into little flat, round cakes half an inch thick and 
broil them two minutes. Season with salt and pepper if 
allowed. Serve on rounds of buttered toast. Do not add 
Bait before cooking, as it toughens the meat. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

1 ounce scraped beef ^40 Calories, 

1 ounce bread ( 1 slice) ^73 Calories. 

Prepare meat as for scraped beef, season and spread on 
bread cut very thin. Put slices on top, sandwich-fashion, 
and cut in fancy shapes. Serve in this manner or toast 
daintily. 

BROTH AHB MEAT JELLIES 

Broth is a liquid containing the juices of soluble parts of 
meat and bone, which have been extracted by long, alow cook- 
ing. 

This liquid is more or less solid when cold, according to the 
gelatinous nature of the ingredients. It varies greatly in 
quantity, according to the manner in which it is prepared 
and the material used. The cheaper, inferior parts of meat 
yield more nutriment than the expensive cuts. 

Composition. Broth contains almost no protein except ex- 
tractive matter with soluble mineral matter and gelatin. 

Objective Point and General Principles in Cooking. Tlie 
chief object in making broth is to obtain the largest possible 
amount of nutriment from the meat. This is best accom- 
plished by observing the following rules : 



218 ANIMAL FOODS 

Cut meat into small pieces. 

Soak in the cold water before heating. 

Use a careful selection and proportion of meat^ bone and 
water. (The usual proportion is one pint of water to one 
pound of meat.) 

Season judiciously. 

Use steam-tight kettle; simmer (not boil), that the juice 
may be fully extracted. 

Make it the day before using, that the fat may be removed 
more easily. 

Long, slow cooking. 

Broth may be made from beef, mutton or chicken. Rice, 
barley. Dry Peptonoids Soluble, white or whole egg, etc., may 
be added, if allowed, to increase the quantity of nourishment. 

Comparative Value of Broth and Beef Tea, Broth differs 
from beef tea in that it contains gelatin, besides the extrac- 
tives or flavoring substances and soluble mineral matter that 
are found in beef tea. Gelatin is obtained from meat and 
bones by long, slow cooking, and it is useful in convalescence 
and in febrile states. (Note " Gelatin,'' p. 203.) 

Meat Jellies are a condensed form of broth, which forms an 
agreeable way of serving protein food to an invalid, and are 
especially valuable in febrile states. Although they do not 
entirely replace protein in the diet, they produce a consid- 
erable quantity of energy. (Note "Gelatin,'' p. 203, for 
nutritive value.) 

ENERGY VALUE OF BROTH 

Very few analyses of broths are available ; hence no attempt 
has been made to state the calories under each recipe. The 
following table gives an approximate idea of their energy 
value : 

Beef broth 100 grams yield 16.5 Calories. 

Beef juice 100 grams yield 25 Calories. 

Clam bouillon 100 grams yield 2 Calories. 

Consomme 100 grams yield 12 Calories. 



Food that ma7 lie added for extra nutriment 
e egg (average} 45 grama yield 60 Calories. 



White of 1 egg (average) . 25 grama yield 13 Caloriea. 
Yolk of 1 egg (average) . . 13 grams yield 48 Calories. 
1 tablespoon Dry Pcptonoida Soluble yield 57 Calories. 

1 tablespoon rice 15 grams yield 50 Calories. 

1 tablespoon barley 27 grams yield 90 Calories. 



H17TT0H BBOTH 
lUtton, cut frtUB fore- Speck pepper. 



2 poundi 

quarters. 2 tablespoons boiled nee or bar- 

1 quart cold water. ley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Wipe meat, remove akin and fat and cut into Bmall pieces. 
Put in a kettle with bones that have been well broken, add 
cold water and let it stand one-half hour to extract the juices. 
Heat gradually to boiling point, skim, and when partly cooked 
season with salt and pepper. Simmer four hours, or until 
meat is tender. Do not allow it to boil. Remove fat and 
fitiain through a. coarse sieve. Serve hot. If broth is made 
the day before it is used, it can be cooled thoroughly and 
the fat be removed easily. In reheating use double boiler. 
Two tablespoons of cooked rice or barley may be added if 
desired. The barley should be soaked over night or several 
hours before cooking. Taste and season before serving, a tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley may be added just before serving 
if desired. 

Note. — For weaker broth, use one quart of water to one 
pound of meat. 

BEEF BUDTH 

Prepared same as Mutton Broth. 

BEOTH WITH QBAINS 
1 quart hot broth. 1 tableepoon rice or barley. 

To the hot broth add the well-washed rice. Simmer slowly 
until the rice is tender, adding more broth if it evaporates. 
The broth should be strained before using. 



220 ANIMAL FOODS 

CHIOKEN BKOTH 

3V2 pounds chicken. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 pints cold water. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons rice. 

Thoroughly clean a chicken (see "Poultry/^ p. 153), re- 
move skin and fat; separate at the joints and wipe with a 
wet cloth. Put in kettle and add the cold water and let 
stand one-half hour. Heat very slowly and simmer three 
hours, or until meat is tender. When half-cooked skim off 
fat and add the rice and seasonings (and if desired, a small 
onion). When meat is tender, skim off fat and strain, taste 
and season properly and serve hot. When possible, make 
broth the day before using, that it may be thoroughly cooled 
and the fat removed easily. Eeheat in a double boiler. The 
rice may be cooked, and rubbed through strainer before add- 
ing to broth, or it may be omitted if desired. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broth. 

VEAL BEOTH 

Prepared same as Chicken Broth (use cut from loin or 
knuckle of veal). 

CLAM BROTH NO. I 

Take five clams, wash and scrub well and put in saucepan 
with cold water to cover. Cook until shells open, remove 
from pan and take out clams. Chop and put them back into 
broth. Cook fifteen minutes. Strain through muslin; serve 
hot. If too strong flavor, add hot water. 

Note. — If made in large quantity, use two or three clams 
to one cup water. 

This broth may be frozen to the consistency of a frapp6. 

CLAM BEOTH NO. II 

14 cup clam broth. Pepper. 

1 cup water or milk. y^ teaspoon butter. 

Blend the clam broth and water (or milk), and heat to the 
boiling point. Season with salt to taste, and if allowed, a 
little pepper and the butter. Serve hot in dainty cups. 



MEAT JELLIES 221 

- EGG BROTH 

If one cannot conveniently get protein from meat, a very 
nntritious broth may be made by means of hot water into 
Ti'hich an egg has been stirred. Heat three tablespoons of 
water to not above 149 degrees Fahrenlieit (below the sim- 
mering point), and pour it gradually into a raw egg. The 
liquid is milky if the yolk is used ; clear if only the white is 
used. It has little taste, which is an advantage with many 
patients; or it may be flavored with beef extract. 

EQG BKOTE KO. II 

1 pup hot beef broth. Vi teaspoon salt. 

1 egg. 

Beat the white and yolk of egg separately. To the yolk 
add gradually the hot broth, stirring continually. Add the 
salt 'and folj in the well-beaten white. Reheat in double 
boiler, taking care not to coagulate the albumin. Serve very 
hot. 

Kote. — The white or yolk of egg may be used separately. 

MEAT JELLIES 
CALF'S FOOT JELIT 

100 grams ^05 CalorieB. 
1 calVa foot. Rind of >4 li^iiioi {yellow part 

1 quart cold water. only). 

3 cups sherry wine (beat Topaz). % cup cut or cube sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 

Oiean calf's foot and put into the cold water; bring slowly 
to boiling point, and boil five hours; akim if necessary, while 
cooking. Strain through cheese-cloth and allow it to stand 
until firm and remove the fat. 

Mix lemon juice, wine, the whites and shells of eggs, sugar, 
and beat all together until the sugar is dissolved, then add to 
the jelly. Place on the fire in an enamel stewpan, and stir 
constantly until the mixture is very hot, but not boiling; 
strain through a jelly bag, made of cotton flannel, and allow 



r 



232 ANIMAL FOODS 

the jelly to drip through same alowly, pour into molds or 
glass jars, and put in cold place to harden. 

Note. — Several varieties may be made by Bubatituting the 
different flavors, brandy, rum, port wine, champagne, orange 
and lemon juice. 



orange | 



CHICEEIT JXILT 
3 pounds chicken. 8 peppercorns. 

1 quart cold water. Salt. 

Prepare chicken as for chicken broth and cut fleeh and 
bone into small pieces. Put into saucepan with eold 'water 
and peppercorns and let stand one-half hour. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point, remove scum and cook five or six hours 
or until meat is very tender and water is reduced to one pint, 
while cooking keep it below the boiling point. Skim fre- 
quently while cooking, strain through double thickness of 
cheese-cloth, season to taste and let stand until firm. Re- 
move fat, reheat and turn into glass fruit jars or individual 
molds and cool ; put in ice box until j'ellied. 

Additional flavor may be added if desired, a stalk of celery 
or a small piece of bay leaf may be cooked with the chicken. 

Note. — Mutton Broth Jelly may be treated in the same 
way. 

BEEF JELLY ^^ 

3 pounds Bolid meat from the 4 quarts cold water. ^^^H 

shouldEr or shin. 2 teaspoons salt. ^^^H 

3 pounds bone from sarne. ^^^H 

Take off the dried skin and any soft or bloody portion. 
Cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cracked 
bone into an earthen jar. Cover with the cold water. Set 
in slow oven and cook from eight to twelve hours. Strain 
through a colander. Add salt to taste; cool quickly. When 
cold remove the fat. Serve cold as a jelly, or reheat in 
double boiler. 



SOITF AND SOUP ACC0UFANIHENT8 

Soup is a light and suitable form of food for the sick- 
There are two classes — those made with meat and those 
without meat. 

The soups with meat are an infusion of meat, flavored with 
salt and some condiment. They are treated in the chapter 
on broths. 

T!ie foundations of soups without meat are milk, vegetables 
and water. They are dainty and nutritious, and an excellent 
way of serving milk and the starch and mineral matter .of the 



I 



They may be served as a luncheon, with criap crackers, or aa 
the first course of a dinner. Serve daintily in heated bouillon 
cups, partly filled, on small plate and doily. 

General Rule for blending: 

(a) Prepare vegetables, cook and strain. 

(6) Prepare cream sauce: Melt butter, add the flour and 
gradually pour on the scalded milk or water. Cook thor- 
oughly. 

(c) Blend (o) and (&). Season, strain and serve imme- 
diately. 

In the preparation of these soups great care must be taken 
that the starch of the vegetable and of the flour used in the 
thickening is thoroughly cooked. Cooking temperature of 
starch is 212 degrees Fahrenheit. 



CREAK OF ASFAEAQtrS SOTTF, 313 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
^ bundle asparagus. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt. 

% tableBpoon butter. Pepper. 

(a) Wash the asparagus and cook in boiling salted water, 
boiling gently thirty minutes. Take from the water, cut off 
the lips and put them into the serving diah; press the re- 
mainder through a colander, 

(6) Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and 




224 ANIMAL FOODS 

pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stir- 
ring often. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; reheat, season to taste, strain over tips 
and serve at OLce with crisped wafer crackers. 

Note. — For individual quantity use one-hulf recipe. 



Melt 

loon- 



ASFAAAGUS SOUP (FOB TEE DIABETIC), 30 CAXOBJElJ 

One-half pint of veal stock or water, boiled with five or s 
stalks of asparagus. Keserve tips; mash and strain. Melt 
together one-half teaspoonful of butter with one-half teaepoon- 
ful of Gum Gluten Flour. Add stock and asparagus tips, a 
serve at once. 

CBEAU OF COBK SOUP, 4S3 GALOBIES 
(Two Servings.) 
Vi cup corn. 1 eup milk. 

Vx cup cold water. 1 tablespoon floui. 

^ slice onion. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Salt. Yolk I egg. 

Pepper. 

(a) Chop corn, add water and simmer twenty minutes; 
rub through a sieve. 

(b) Scald milk with onion; remove onion. Melt butter, 
add flour and gradually pour on milk. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; cook thoroughly, season to taste with 
Halt and pepper and pour onto the heaten yolk. When well 
blended, serve hot. 

Notfi.^ — The yolk of egg may be omitted. 

CBEAK OF CELEBT SOTTP, 320 CALOSIES 

(Two Servings.) 
4 stalks celery. 1 tablespoon butter. 

^ cup boiling water. 1 tablespoon fiour. 

Salt. 1 cup rich milk. 

Pepper. 

(a) Wash and scrape the celery and cut into small pieces, 
add the water and cook until very tender and soft. Renew 
the water if it boils away, Masji the celery in the water in 
which it was cooked. 



I 

XB8, i 



SOUP 

(&) Scald milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add floor"! 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly, . 
Btirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; season to taste; strain and serve im- 
mediately with croiitons or crisped crackers. 

'CKEAH OP CELES,T SOITF (FOR THE DIABETIC), 226 CAXOBZES 

(Three Servings.) 
6 stalkH celery. Spetk eayenne pepper, salt. 

1 slice onion. % teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water. Va teaapoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

I cup hot milk. 

Boil, mash and strain the first three ingredients, add the 
hot milk or cream. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot soup stock : season and cook thoroughly. 

CKEAK OF PEA SOXTP, 216 CAIOEIES 

(Indiridual Rule.) 
% can peai. Vi cup milk. 

Yi teaapoon sugar. % tnlilpspooii butter. 

y^ cup cold water. Ys tablespoon flour. 

Salt and pepper. 

(a) Drain peas from their liquor, rinse thoroughly, add 
sugar and cold water and simmer twenty minutes. Rub 
through a sieve ; reheat, 

{h) Scald milk. Melt butter, add flour and pour on grad- 
ually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stirring carefully. 
Note. — Peas that are too old to serve as a vegetable may 
be used for soup. One-half slice onion may be cooked in the 
milk. 

CEEAU OF OmOir SOUP, 297 CALORIES 
(Individtul Bule.) 
1 onion. % tablespoon bntt«r. 

1 L-up milk. % tablespoon flour. 

Cut onion in small pieces and scald in milk. Melt batter, 
add flour and add gradually the milk mixture and cook welL 
Season with salt and pepper and strain. 



r 



mi 



236 ANIMAL FOODS 

OHIOH SOUP (FOE THE DIABETIC), 30 CALOBIEB 

One Bermuda or three green onions boiled until tender ia 
stock or water ; mash and strain. Add one-half teaspoon Gum 
Gluten Flour, one-half teaspoonful butter and a little chopped 
parHley. One tablespoon of cream, if desired. 

CKEAU OF POTATO SOUP, 220 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. Vg tableEpoon. flonr. ^^^M 

% slice onion. Vt teaspoon salt. ^^^| 

% cup mashed potatoes. Pepper. ^^^| 

^ tablespoon butter. ^H 

(o) Scald milk with onion in it, remove onion and add milk 
slowly to potatoes, (b) Melt butter, add flour and pour on 
gradually the hot mixture. Cook thoroughly and season to 
taste. A little celery salt may be added if desired. A little 
finely-chopped parsley may be sprinkled over top of soup. 

CEEAH 07 BICE SOTTP, 302 CALOBIZa ^m 

(Individual Rule.) ^^M 

1 tablespoon rice. Stalk celery. ^^U 

1 cup milk. % bay leaf. fl 
% tabieflpoon butter. Salt. 
^ amall onion. Pepper. 

Scald the milk, add the well-washed rice and cook in doable 
boiler thirty minutes, covered closely. 

Melt butter in saut4 pan, add the sliced onion and cook till 
tender, but not brown. Add celery sliced, and turn into 
scalded milk; add the bay leaf, cover and let stand on back 
of stove fifteen minutes. Strain, season with salt and pepper, 
reheat and serve. 

Note. — If soup is too thick, add a little heated milk. 

TOKATO SOTFF (WITH BEOTH), 110 CAL0EIE8 

(Individual Rule.) 
^ cup strained tomatoes. 1 cup water or stock. 

^ tablespoon butter. % teaspoon salt, 

y, slice onion. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. 



SOUP 227 

(a) Cook and strain tomatoeB, obtaining one-half cup 
juice. 

{b) Melt butter, add the onion and brown slightly; add 
the flour; pour on gradually the boiling water or stock. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; cook thoroughly, Beason with salt and 
pepper, strain and serve. 

Note. — Two tablespoons of cream may be added. 

Beef or mutton broth strained may be used in place of 
water if desired. 

GEEAK OF TOMATO B01TP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 221 CALOBIES 
(Two ServingB.) 
Vj cup tomatoes. % tcaapoon butt«r. 

1 slice onioo. % teaspoon Qum Gluten Flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt, pepper. 

Stew and strain the tomatoes and onion, reheat and add 
a tiny pinch of soda. When effervescing subsides add milk. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and pour in gradually the hot 
stock. Season and cook thoroughly. 

XOCK BISaiTE SOUP, 324 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
'/, cup tomatoes. 1 tableapoon butter. 

% flaitspoon 9oda. % tablespoons flour or corn- 

Salt and pepper. starch. 

1 cup milk. 

(a) Steam tomatoes until soft enough to strain juice; 
strain, add soda and allow gases to pass off. This prevents 
the acid of the tomato curdling the milk. 

(b) Scald milk ; melt butter in quart size saucepan, add the 
flour and pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thor- 
oughly, stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (h) ; reheat, season to taste, strain and 
serve immediately with crofltona or crackers. 

DRIED FRUIT 80ITP, 209 CALORIES i 
y^ cup dried apricots. I cup cold water. 

^4 cup prunes. Sugar to taste. 

'Without iDEtr. 



JiJ. , i.-.T r^^<^/7.rf 




II THIflBDl& 

rr ' 



JL TTKI* 






3iiir Ht snrjiHijri o'?£r -ai 




inrgr Tyrrmm* STR^S??!! iiirg^-;- 

vuaass i. «TTtf ttt jin£ -inf sitspi nnim 
r- inc ami: TmirL iiit 'saer^ sLir-L n 
KsuoaL aiiE&rr koi -iie iffJ^ "^^r "t^jh: eul ±^ 3 



] 






228 ANIMAL FOODS 

Pick ovec and wash fruit until perfectly clean. Cook in 
the water until very soft. Strain and squeeze out all the 
juice; sweeten to taste. Thicken if liked. 

Thickening. — 1 slightly rounding teaspoon rice flour to 
1 cup liquid. Cook twenty minutes to remove raw taste of 
starch. 

PANOPEPTON BOinLLON — HOT, 30 CALOKIES 

Put one tablespoonful of Panopepton into a small teacup; 
fill the cup nearly full of boiling water, and flavor to taste 
with celery salt, or plain salt and pepper ; stir, and sip slowly. 
This is a very nourishing and pleasantly stimulating drink. 

VICTOKIA SOTJP (WITH BEOTH), 619 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

Yg cup lean chicken meat. 1 cup rich milk. 

1 cup strong chicken broth. % cup cracker crumbs. 

l^ teaspoon salt. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Pepper. 

Soak the crumbs in a little of the milk. Cook yolks of 
eggs in hot water until hard. Chop the chicken, mix with the 
soaked cracker crumbs, press the hard-cooked yolks through 
a coarse strainer, add the seasonings and the broth and cook 
all together five minutes over direct heat or one-half hour in 
double boiler. Serve hot. 

CONSOMME 

Make a beef or any broth according to the strength re- 
quired. While cooking skim frequently, and when reduced 
to one-third of its quantity take from saucepan and strain; 
season well, cool quickly and remove fat. Return to sauce- 
pan, add a few thin slices of onion and one-half pound of 
lean beef chopped fine and clear. 

To Clear Soup, I'o each quart of stock add the slightly 
beaten white and broken shell of one egg and a few shavings 
of lemon rind. Place on front of range, and stir constantly 
until boiling point is reached; boil two minutes. Set back 
where it may simmer twenty minutes ; remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 229 

Note. — To increase the nutrient value and improve flavor. 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be added to any stock. Its com- 
plete solubility and concentration have caused it to be recom- 
mended most highly for this purpose. 

OYSTE& SOUP 

See chapter " Oysters ^^ for recipe. Pages 171-172. 

OYSTE& STEW 

See " Oysters ^^ for recipe. Page 172. 

CLAH SOUP 

See chapter " Clams '' for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAM BOUILLON 

See chapter " Clams '' for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAM BOUILLON BISQUE 

See chapter " Clams '* for recipe. Page 175. 

MEAT SOUPS 

Foundation for same, see chapter " Broths." Page 219. 

SOTTP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

GLUTEN BISCUIT CRISPS 
1=25 Calories. 

Serve plain or butter slightly and bake until heated through, 

CBISPED CBACKEBS 

1 Saltine = 15 Calories. 

Split conmion crackers or use saltines. Put in pan and 
bake until thoroughly heated. Serve plain or buttered 
slightly. 

TOASTED CBACKEBS 

Butter crackers^ put in pan and bake until a delicate brown. 
Serve on small plate with doily. 



230 ANIMAL FOODS 

CBOTTTONS 
1 ounce (1 slice) bread = 73 Calories. 

Take a slice of stale bread about half an inch thick, cut 
into half -inch cubes; put them in a shallow pan and dry thor- 
oughly, then brown delicately. Stir often to brown evenly. 
Serve on small plate with doily. A little butter may be 
spread on the bread if desired. 

NOODLES FOK SOTTP (FOB THE DIABETIC), 596 CALORIES 
1 egg. 5 ounces Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat the egg very light, add the milk and Gum Gluten. 
EoU very thin and cut in straws. Cook in any soup. 

GLUTEN CBISP (FOB THE DIABETIC) 

See chapter " Toast '' for recipe. Page 256. 



CHAPTEli X 
VEGETABLE OE PLANT FOODS 

The important food products derived from the vegetable 
kingdom are tlie Cereals, Legumes — Eoots and Tubers — 
Green Vegetables — Fruits — Nuts — Fungi — Liehens, 

Composition. Vegetable or plant fooda contain the five 
proximate principles, namely, proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
water and mineral matter. In this they resemble animal 
fooda. The food principles in the two classes are, however, 
in different proportions, animal foods being rich in proteins 
or fats, and seldom containing carbohydrate in appreciable 
amounts; while vegetable fooda are, as a rule, rich in carbo- 
hydrates, and poor in proteins and fata. 

These differences are clearly shown in the following table: 
Pro. Fat. Garb, 
% % % 
Lean round of beef. Free from all vis- 
ible fat 23.2 2.5 

Lean round of beef. Very fat 18.1 23.1 

Wheat flour (eutire wheat) 13.8 1.9 71,0 

Potatoes 1.8 O.I 14.7 

ippiea 1.8 2.2 86.1 

The legumes and most nuts are exceptional in containing 
high percentages of protein or fat or both, but unlike meats, 
they also contain a very considerable amount of carbohydrate, 
ae shown by the following analyses : 

Pro. Pat. Garb. 

Beans, dried 22.5 l.a 59.6 

Peaa 24.8 1.0 62.0 

AlmwidH 21.0 S4.B 17.3 

Walnuto 16,6 83.4 16.1 

231 



232 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS • 

Protein.^ (1) Gluten of wheat and some of the otha 
cereals. 

(2) Legumin found in legumes. 

(3) Vegetable albumin as found in some vegetables. 
Carbohydrates of Vegetables ^ include — starch, sngSLr, veg- 
etable gums and cellulose. 

Fats of Vegetables * are in the form of oils and are similar 
in composition to animal fats, but are more easily digested 
and equal in nutritive value. 

Water. Dry vegetable foods, such as cereals, dried beans 
and peas, nuts, dried fruits, etc., do not, as a rule, contain 
as much water as animal foods, but fresh vegetables and fruits 
contain frequently from 90 per cent, to 95 per cent, of water. 

This gives them a low nutritive value compared with their 
bulk. In cooking, water is added to most dry vegetable foods, 
so that when served they resemble fresh or succulent vegetable 
foods in this respect. 

Mineral Matter.* All vegetable foods contain valuable ash 
constituents. In cereals, these are largely in the outer part 
of the grain, and arc lost if the entire grain is not utilized. 
Thus polished ri(!0 is much poorer in ash constituents than 
unpolished; and white flour than entire wheat flour. Fresh 
vegetables nnd fruits are d(j8irable in the dietary for their 
salts and organic; acids. 

Digestibility. Vegetable foods are less easily digested than 
animal foods, owing to tlun'r complex composition, and espe- 
cially to the intimate mixture of the nutrients with cellulose. 
This prevents the digestive ferments acting readily upon the 
food-stuffs so that they are digested more slowly and less com- 
pletely than animal foods. Although cellulose is indigestible, 
its presence under normal conditions in proper amounts, is 
advantageous,'^ but it should be thoroughly softened by cook- 
ing, except in the case of tender young vegetables such as 
lettuce. 

* Protein, see p. 10. 

^ Carbohvdrates, nee p. 16. 

' Fats of vegetables, see p. 20. 

^Mineral matter, see p. 81. 

« See p. 17. 



CEREALS 233 

Comparative Value of Animal and Vegetable Diets. An 
animal diet is concentrated and eaBily digested. If the ani- 
mal foods taken are eggs and milk, no serioua objection can 
be urged against them, except that they lack bulk. The food 
is BO fully absorbed that the large intestine has no stimulus 
to action and no material for its muscles to act upon, and 
serious complications are likely to arise from constipation. 
If the animal food is largely meat, it is undesirable, not only 
for the reason above mentioned, but because excessive quan- 
tities of nitrogenous extractives are taken, which are likely 
to cause uric acid disorders and other disturbances, and also 
because important mineral salts are lacking (such as calcium, 
which carnivorous animals get by eating bone) ; and because 
the acids formed from the protein (phosphoric and sulphuric) 
tend to deprive the body of salts already present in tlie tissues. 

A strict vegetable diet, on the other hand, while free from 
these objections, is necessarily very bulky, owing to the high 
percentages of water and cellulose, and to the fact that extra 
allowance must be made because it is less perfectly absorbed. 
Unless special care is taken, a vegetable diet is also likely to 
be low in protein. Legumes and nuts must form a consid- 
erable part of the dietary to provide this. When oggs, milk 
and milk products are added to the vegetable foods, the diet 
becomes mixed, and these objections no longer hold. 

An Ideal Diet contains a mixture of animal and vegetable 
foods, BO that protein, fat, carbohydrate and mineral matter 
are supplied in proper proportions and in available forms, and 
BuflSeient bulk is afforded for proper intestinal action, 

CEREALS 



WTierever it is possible to grow grains, they are staples of 
man's diet. No food products of the vegetable kingdom equal 
them in importance. They are cheaply and easily groft-n, and 
contain all the food principles in unusually good proportion. 



234 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

They can be kept for long periods, are not difficult to cook, 
and furnish a palatable and digestible article of diet. Cereala 
alone Buppty nearly one-fourth of the total food in a large 
number of the American families. Wheat, corn, rye, oate, 
barley, rice and buckwheat are in commonest use. 

The natural grain is surrounded by an indigestible husk 
which is always removed. OraiuB simply hulled or husked, 
and slightly crushed are called groats or grits; more finely 
crushed, they constitute meal ; ground to a powder and sifted 
they form flour. 

Composition. Cereals contain all the food principles, with 
considerable cellulose, especially in the outer skin, which forms 
bran in milling. They are comparatively dry materialB, hav- 
ing an average water content of about 10 per cent. The pro- 
tein content is fairly high, averaging 13 per eent.-13 per cent,' 
The fat is never large in amount, and varies within wide 
limits, being greatest in com and oata and their products, and 
lowest in rice. 

The nutrients in largest proportion are the carbohydrates, 
wliich frequently constitute 75 per cent, of the whole. The 
ash content is as large as in most common food materials, and 
some of the grains, as oats and wheat, are especially valuable 
for their soluble phosphates of calcium, potassium, magne- 
sium, etc. 

The chemical composition of some of the most common 
cereals is shown in the following table : 

OsrbDhydrslfli 
Wttler Protein Fat Hlarch, etc. Crude Fiber Aih 

Percent. Per Oenl. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. 



Com (maiie) .. 

Oals 

Rice 

Wheot lapring) . 



It will be seen that corn is relatively rich in fat; oats in 
both protein and fat; rye and wheat in protein with a mod- 
erate amount of fat; rice is notably free from crude fiber 
and fat, and also very low in ash. 



t Foodi," Fermer"* 



CEREALS 2 

Cereal Breakfast Foods are very similar in compoBition to 
the grains from which they are made. 

Macaroni is much like wheat breakfast foods in composition 
and food value. ■ 

Principles in Cooking. Cooking improves cereals in many 
ways. For the average person, proper cooking has almost aa 
much to do with the nutriment finally obtained as the pro 
portions of nutrients originally present. Flavor and appear 
ance are improved, with the gain in digestibility that comes 
from appetizing foods which stimulate the flow of digestive 
juices. Cooking to convert nutrients into more digestible 
forms, is very important in the case of cereals which contain 
so much starch; and since the starch in these foods is sur- 
rounded by cell-walls of crude fiber (largely cellulose) upon 
which the digestive juices are unable to act, these walls must 
be broken down. Part of this disintegration may be accom- 
plished in milling, and part by thorough mastication but com- 
plete digestion of the starch is assured only by thorough 
cooking. 

Parching is one of the simplest methods of cooking grains. 
The invisible moisture in the cells is expanded by the heat, 
and the cell walls burst. Some of the starch is also made 
Boluble or changed to dextrin by this process. The digestibil- 
ity of protein seems to be lessened by cooking at high tem- 
peratures, but the starch can be made almost perfectly di- 
gestible. 

The Boftening of cellulose is more perfectly accomplished 
by cooking for a long time in the presence of a large amount 
of moisture, as in steaming, or cooking with water or milk 
in a double boiler. The glutinous material which surrounds 
the starch grains and prevents their digestion is disintegrated 
80 that the digestive juices can act. In general, the more 
crude fiber a cereal contains, the longer it should be cooked. 
Reference to the table (p. 234) ahows that oats requires 
more cooking than rice; whole or partially crushed grains 
than finely ground ones. There is danger in undercooked 
cereals, not only of loss of valuable nutriment through failure 



236 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

of digestion, but in irritation of the alimentary tract. This 
should be especially remembered in preparing partially cooked 
breakfast foods. 

When cereals are cooked in water some of it is absorbed, 
and soluble substances in the food pass into the remaining 
water. If this is thrown away, as when rice is boiled in a 
large quantity of water and subsequently drained dry, a con- 
siderable part of the nutriment is lost. Eice water frequently 
contains enough dissolved starch to form a jelly on cooling. 
For this reason steaming is a preferable method. Practical 
application of the fact that certain nutrients in cereals are 
soluble is made in the preparation of all kinds of cereal 
waters and starchy gellies. (See Recipes, pp. 124-244.) 

Gruels are thin porridges made from flour or other finely 
ground grain products, with either water or milk. They are 
cooked for a long time to insure the starch being changed to 
soluble starch, or even partially dextrinized. Time for cook- 
ing should therefore be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

By passing the material through a cheese-cloth or sieve, the 
coarser, undissolved portions are removed, and the smooth 
product does not irritate weakened digestive organs; hence 
this method is desirable for invalids and young children. 

In cooking all cereal products, the following points should 
be observed: 

Use a double boiler. 

Observe carefully the correct proportions of cereal, water 
and salt. 

Cook at boiling temperature (212° F.). 

Watch the time by the clock, and always cook the full time 
prescribed, preferably longer. 

Serve attractively. 

Improper cooking and poor serving are largely responsible 
for unpopularity of cereal foods. 

Digestibility. The digestibility of cereals is greatly in- 
fluenced by the mode of preparation and the thoroughness of 
insalivation. For the normal healthy person cereal foods are 
very wholesome. In general, about 90 per cent, or more of 



■ CEREALS 337 

the organic matter is aBBimilated. The carbohydrates are 
moat completely digested; the protein shows a wide variation, 
but is less perfectly assimilated than the other nutrients, 
owing partly to the fact that it is often hardened in cooking 
and partly that it is intimately bound up with cellulose in 
the bran coats. For this reason white flour shows a higher 
degree of digestibility for protein, than do whole wheat prepa- 
rations. 

Among cereal breakfast foods, rolled wheat ranks first in 
digestibility, rolled oata next, and com preperations among 
the lowest. The partially digested or ready-to-eat cereals 
supply more digestible material than the plain grains when 
well cooked. 

Nutritive Value. Cereals supply actual digestible nutri- 
ments to the body more cheaply than any other class of fooda 
except the dried legumes. All animal foods, especially meats, 
are more expensive, even as sources of protein, than cereals. 
A glance at their composition shows that they are chiefly fuel 
foods, because of their high carbohydrate content. Their 
cost varies with the cost of labor and fuel in preparing the 
food. The comparatively expensive ready-to-eat breakfast 
foods do not yield any extra nutritive value. Their only ad- 
vantages are pleasant flavor and ease of serving. Cereal 
products yield on the average between 1600 and liOO calories 
per pound. Thus: 

1 lb. flour furnishes 1665 calories. 

I lb. entire wheat flour furnishes 1675 calories. 

I lb. com meal furnishes 1656 calories. 

1 lb. cornstarch furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. wheatlet furnishes 16S5 calories. 

1 lb. bominf fumiahes 1650 calories. 

1 lb. granulated corn meal furnishes 16SS calories. 

1 lb. wheat germ furnishes 1S95 calories. 

1 lb. tapioca furnishes 1650 calories. 

Care of Cereals. Cereals must be kept in a cool, dry place; 
warmth will favor the development of the maggot eggs; and 
moisture, when absorbed, makes them musty. 



238 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 



OKXTELS 

ABBOWBOOT OBTJEL, 205 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons arrowroot. 1 cup boiling water or wiillr. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

Sugar, lemon juice, wine or brandy as required. 

Blend the arrowroot and cold water to a smooth paste. 
Add to the boiling water or milk. Cook in double boiler two 
hours. Add salt. Strain and serve hot. 

Arrowroot is the purest form of starch, and beneficial in 
case of diarrhoea if not given too hot. 

BARLEY OBXf£L, 248 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. 1 cup scalded milk. 

2 tablespoons cold milk. Salt. 

Blend the barley flour with the cold milk and stir into 
the scalding milk. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 
Season with salt to taste, and add sugar if desired. Strain. 

BARLEY ORTTEL OR JELLY, 142 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. ^ cup milk (if desired). 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Blend carefully the barley flour and the cold water; add 
gradually to the boiling water and cook twenty minutes. Add 
milk and salt to taste, reheat to boiling point, strain and 
serve or bottle for keeping. 

Note. — For jelly omit the milk and strain. 

RICE OR OAT ORTTEL 

Kice or oat gruel may be made in same way as Barley 
Gruel No. I or II, using the prepared flour for the purpose. 

BARLEY GRUEL (WITH BROTH), 308 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 cups beef broth. 2 tablespoons cold water. 
2 tablespoons barley flour. 1 saltspoon salt. 

^Calculated with milk. 



r 



Mix barley flour and salt with the cold wator to form a 
smooth paste. Add gradually to the boiling stock and boil 
one-haii hour. Strain and serve very hot, 

CSAGXZR OBUEL, 243 CALORIES 

(Individual Ruii^.) 
2 tablespooiiB sifted cracker i cup scalded milt. 

crumbs. 
^ ten spoon salt. 

Pour hot milk gradually onto cracker crumbs, Btirring con- 
stantly. Cook in double boiler five minutes or two minutes 
over direct heat. 

Note. — Before preparing crumbs, crackers may be baked 
in a slow oven until a delicate brown; or graham crackers 
may be used. A convenient way to prepare the crumbs is to 
put them several times through a meat chopper and then sift. 

PLOirS QKUEL OR THICEEITED HUE, 212 CALORIES 

(Indi^'idual Eulo.) 
% cup BMilded milk. Speck salt. 

% pup cold milk. 1 dmen raiaius. 

'/; tnbleBpoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with the cold milk to make 
a smooth mixture, and stir into the scalding milk. Cook in 
a double boiler one-half hour or on back of stove in a sauce- 
pan. 

Stone and quarter the raisins, then add water enough to 
cover: cook slowly until water has all boiled away. Add to 
gruel just before serving. Add salt. Strain and serve, or it 
may be eaten with the raisins in it. 

Note. — This gruel may be made without the raisins. 
Never use raisins in bowel troubles. 

FASIITA aETTEL, 103 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule,) 
% tablespoon farina, Vs ''"P scalded milk. 

% cup cold water. Salt, 

y, cup boiling water. 



240 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Mix the farina with the cold water, add to the boiling 
water and boil thirty minutes. Add the scalding Tnilk. 
Taste and season properly. A little sugar may be added if 
desired, or an egg may be beaten and the gruel poured into it. 

OLUTEH OBTJEL OE POBBIDGE (FOB THE DIABETIC), 185 GAI- 

OBIESi 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 tablespoon Gum Gluten Flour. 1 cup hot water or millr^ 
i tablespoon cold water. Salt. 

Add cold water slowly to Gluten Flour to form a thin 
paste, then add gradually to boiling water, while stirring con- 
stantly; cook fifteen minutes. Season with salt. Is an ex- 
cellent food for the sick ; for baby food it may be sweetened. 

INDIAN HEAL GBTJEL, 48 CALOBIES2 

1 tablespoon Indian meal. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Yg tablespoon flour. 2 cups boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Blend the meal, flour and salt with the cold water to make 
a smooth paste, and stir into the boiling water. Boil gently 
one hour and a half. Dilute with hot water, milk or cream. 
Strain. 

OATMEAL GBVEL NO. I, 70 CALOBIES 2 

% cup coarse oatmeal. 1^ cup boiling water. 

V^ teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Add oatmeal and salt to the boiling water, and cook four to 
five hours in a double boiler, adding more water if necessary. 
Strain and dilute with hot milk to make it of the right con- 
sistency. Eeheat and serve. 

Xote. — Sugar, and a little port wine may be added if al- 
lowed and desired. 

1 Calculated with milk. 
'Without milk or cream. 



GRUELS 841 

OATITEAL OBUEL, SO. II, 70 CAIOEIES i 
Yt cup rolled oats. Yt teaspoon salt, 

li/a cup boiling wat«r. Milk or cretun. 

Mix the oate, water and salt in top of double boiler. Cook 
over direct heat five minutes and then over hot water one 
hour. Strain, bring to the boiling point and add millr or 
cream as desired. 

OATUEAL GSTTBI. ITO. m. 140 CAIOBIES ' 
'/„ cup coarse oatmeal. Salt. 

2 cups water. Milk. 

Pound the oatmeal in a mortar until it is mealy, then put ' 
it into a tumbler and till it with cold water. Stir, and pour 
off the mealy water into a saucepan. Fill tumbler again, stir 
and pour off, and repeat until the above quantity of water is 
exhauBted. Boil the oatmeal water thirty minutea, stirring 
frequently. Season with salt to taste. Thin .with milk or 
cream to desired consistency. 

EGO AITS SHEBB7 OBTIEI, 3SS CALO&IES 

(Individual Rule.} 
1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 wineglass sherry. Grating of nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon lemcHi jutee. I cup smooth bot gruel. 

Beat tlie egg; add wine, lemon, nutmeg and pour on the 
hot gruel. 

CAimLE, 404 CALOBIES = 

y^ cup Scotch oatmeal. Juice Vi lemon. 

2 quarts water. Sugar, cinnamon, brandy, or 
Salt to taste. wine. 

i/a cup raisins. 

Boil oatmeal, water and salt four or five hours. Strain; 
if too thick add a little hot water and whip it with a wooden 
spoon. Remove seeds from, raisins, cook a short time in hot 
water, and add raisins and water to above. Add lemon juice, 
and sugar, cinnamon, brandy or wine to taste. 



243 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

TLOTTR BAIL OB BOHXD OB BBOWBKD TLOUTM ttTOL (IB 



Tie one cup of wheat flour in a thick cloth, and boil ix in 
one quart of water for three hours ; remove the cloth «ii<^ ex- 
pose the flour to the air, or heat until it is hard. Grate from 
it when wanted. Put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
new milk, and stir over the fire until it comes to a boil : acd 
a pinch of salt and a tablespoon of cold water, and serve. 
Thia gruel is excellent for children aflBicted with summer ocm- 
plaint. Or brown a tablesp«x)n of flour in the oven, or m 
rop of ihe stove in a baking tin : feed a few pinches ar a liaie 
:o a child, and :r will often check diarrhoea. 

BSEAKFAST FOODS 
7:^.:t5 ^r^rd -^ith Treakfisr f-xxls make ihem. more is- 



.- .._-T :::- -:-i:i -ii -:\^:.<t^ ::r preparjig patrair or OT!- 
liTrl ;-^r-.i-r. ill--v-.z:r :'"■/''.- The r.'^^n liz^ze for v?o«?kfnar. ' 

X:; -iir -r^'. -: ir iz.: ?d-- ^rii -!:■- .-. : zulk jr w ^t r^r: 
.ir: Zt -17 '-.:-- .: -r i:.:-.: i-fiT :ne-aAlz 2wur. 



ZaZZLLST 3*303] ?33 Z33. 

nr=s 




.tXL. 



I 



wm 



BREAKFAST FOODS 243 

lefore using, as a long cooking improves the quality. Put 
tlie food in the water and cook over direct heat for fifteen 
minutes, then put in double Doiler and cook for about one 
hour, adding suit to taste when nearly done. It is then neees- 
Bary to cook it but twenty minute^ in the morning. Serve 
with cream. 

HOmST MUSE, SOO CALOKIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
Vt cup fine hominy. 1% cups boiling water. 

'^ teaspoon salt. 

Put all together in a double boiler and cook two hours 
Add more water if mush seems stiff and thick; all prepara- 
tions of corn absorb a great deal of water in cooking, and 
hominy usually needs a little more than four times its bulk. 

Note. — Hominy is exceedingly indigestible unless well 
cooked, but sweet and nutritious when subjected to a high 
temperature for ft long time. 

OATHEAL HTJSB: FOR CEILDKEN AHD INVALIDS, 880 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water. 

Put tlie oatmeal and salt in a double boiler, pour on the 
boiling water and cook three or four hours. Remove the 
cover juat Iwfore serving, and stir with a fork to let the 
steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler be strongly 
salted, the oatmeal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar 
or salt and cream or milk. 

Note. — Baked sour apples, apple sauce and apple jelly are 
delicious eaten with oatmeal. They should be served with the 
mush, and sugar and cream poured over the whole. They 
give the acid flavor which so many crave in the morning. 
Coarse oatmeal is not advisable in any form of water brash, 
acidity or bowel irritations. It often causes eruptions on the 
skin in warm weather. 

BOILED KICE 

See " Bice Puddings " for recipe. Page 397. 



244 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

STEAMED BICE 

Soe " Eice Puddings ^' for recipe. Page 298. 

STABCHT TELLIES 

BABLEY JELLY, 270 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

3 tablespoons pearl barley. % saltspoon salt. 
1 quart cold water. 

Soak barley over night, drain and add the quart of fresh 
water; add salt; and cook in double boiler steadily for four 
hours down to one pint, adding water from time to time; 
strain through muslin. When cold this makes a thick jelly. 
Two tablespoons dissolved in eight ounces of wanned and 
sweetened milk may be given at single feeding for infants. 

Note. — Oatmeal wheaten grits and rice grains may be used 
in same way. 

Jelly made with Barley Flour, see Barley Gruel, p. 238. 

RICE JELLY, 181 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

lYz tablespoons rice. % cup milk. 

1 cup cold water. 1 white of egg. 

Spedc salt. 

Wash the rice and soak in cold water two hours, drain ofiE 
the water and add the milk, cook in double boiler one and one- 
half hours. Strain through a fine sieve. Pour into molds, 
chill and serve with fruit juice or cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY, 200 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

4 tablespoons pearl tapioca. % cup boiling water. 
1 cup cold water. Speck salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water three hours; add boiling 
water and salt; cook in double boiler two and one-fourth 
hours. Serve hot, plain with cream, wine and powdered 
sugar, or flavor while hot with lemon juice, and chill. 

COBNSTABCH JELLIES 

See '' Cornstarch Pudding ^' for recipe. Page 295. 



UACAEONI 
BOILED UACASONI, 98 CALOHIES i 

(Individual Kulc.) 
14 cnp macaroni. 1 teaapoon salt. 

3 cups boiling water. Cream or milk, 

Breat macaroni into one-inch pieces, put into a strainer 
and rinse with eold water. Cook in boUing salted wat«r 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Strain, pour a little cold 
water over it to prevent pieces from adhering; add cream, 
reheat and season with salt; or serve with White or Tomato 
Sauce and grated cheese. 

WHITE SAUCE, 153 CALOBIES 

(Individual Bule.) 
V4 cup milk. '/a tubleBpoon flour. 

Vj tabtespooa butter. V4 teaspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, remove from stove and 
add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on gradually the 
hot milk, stirring constantly while blending. Cook thor- 
oughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season with 
salt. 

TDUATO 8ATTCE, 93 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% eup strained tomato juice. V, tablespoon flour. 
% tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes. Melt the butter and remove from 
stove, add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on grad- 
ually tlie hot tomato, stirring constantly while blending; cook 
thoroughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season 
with Bait and pepper. 

BAKES KACABOin 
1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese ^62 Calories. 
Fill a buttered baking-dish with alternate layers of maca- 
roni. White Sauce and cheese; then cover with buttered 

^WltboDt milk or cTcnm. 



r 



246 VEOETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

cracker crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 
Tomato Sauce may be eubstituted for White Sauce if deairei 
BUTTEAED GBACEEE CBXTUBS, 201 CAXOBIES 
1 tablespoon butter. '/^ cup cracker crumbs. 

Melt buttf^r and add cracker crumbs that have been rolled 
fine. To be used for the top of any Hcalloped dish. Cracker 
crumbs or bread crumbs may be used and bits of butter dotted 
over top. 

NOODLES (FOR TEE DIABETIC), S96 CALOBZES 
( Individual Rule, j 
1 egg, well beaten. 5 ounceH Gum Gluten Floor. 

I tablespoon milb. 

Beat egg, add milk and gradually add the Gluten Flour. 
Koll out and cut in thin strips. Serve with any soup. 
BOILED NOODLES (FOE THE DIABETIC) 
Put the noodles into cold, salted water; cook at least forty- 
five minutes after it comes to boil, or boil until it is tender. 
Season with pepper and butter. Serve with White Sauce. 
CREAU OR WHITE SAUCE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 130 CALORIES 
{Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. 1 teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour, 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter without browning it, add the flour, then 
pour in the scalded milk gradually, stirring all the time. 
Cook five minutes. Season with salt and red pepper to taste. 
Flavor with onion, lemon juice or parsley if desired. Pour 
over vegetables very hot. 

BOODLES AU ORATIN (FOR THE DIABETIC) 
1 tablespoon grated freab cheese =: 62 Calories. 

Boil the noodles as above. Place them in a baking-dish in 
alternate layers with grated cheese, having cheese form the 
top layer; season with pepper and butter. Pour over the 
mixture the water in which the noodles were cooked; or, if 
preferred, cream or stewed tomatoes may be used to moisten. 



BBEAD 

From the most remote timeB, bread has been an important 
part of the diet of mankind. It is to-day probably more gen- 
erally and extensively used than any other one food-stuff, 
with the possible esception of milk. It is therefore extremely 
important to know what conatitutes good bread and what are 
its nutritive properties. 

Composition. The ingredients of bread are very simple — 
flour, wat«r, yeast and Bait, Any cereal, cleaned, crushed and 
sifted to a powder, may serve as the flour, but wheat flour 
makes the most satisfactory bread, because its proteins in 
the form of gluten have more elasticity than those of other 
cereals. 

" Bread containa from 34 to 40 per cent, of water, and the 
remainder, about 60 per cent, at least, is nutritive material. 
It contains a large amount of carbohydrates, a moderate 
amount of protein, a small amount of mineral matter, and 
almost no fat. Owing to the excess of carbohydrates and 
deficiency of protein in wheat, bread could not serve alone 
for the proper nutritive of the body, because an amount of 
bread sufficient to supply the requisite protein would furnish 
much more carbohydrates than necessary. In a mixed diet 
this discrepancy is of little importance, as it is supplied by 
the other protein foods eaten. Most methods of increasing 
the protein contents of bread have a tendency to increase 
the cost, but skim milk can be used in place of water in the 
mixing with little added expense, and it will add about S 
per cent, increase as to protein." ' 

Digesiibility and Nutritive Value. "The nutritive value 
of bread depends, not only on its chemical composition, but 
also on its digestibility, and digestibility in its turn seems 
to depend largely on the lightness of the loaf. It is the 
gluten in a dough which gives it the power of stretching 
and rising as the gaa from the yeast expands within it, and 

'From Fitnrr'* BnUMin No. 8S9. U. S. Dept. of Afirleiillure, ^ashlnic- 
ton, D. C. For further iatonoslion. reod -'^rwd and Breid-MiikiDg,'' 
ruBK'l Bnllelin No. B89. 



248 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

hence of making a light loaf. Eye has less gluten proteids 
than wheat, while barley, oats and maize have none^ so that 
they do not make a light, porous loaf like wheat. It is pos- 
sible that of the various kinds of wheat flour those con- 
taining a large part of the bran — entire wheat and graham 
flours — furnish the body with more mineral matter than 
fine white flour; but it is not certain that the extra amount 
of mineral matter furnished is of the same value as that from 
the interior of the grain. They do not yield more digestible 
protein than the white flours, as was for a time supposed. 
It seems safe to say that, as far as is known, for a given 
amount of money, white flour yields the most actual nourish- 
ment with the various food ingredients in good proportion. 

^^ It should be remembered, however, that all kinds of bread 
are wholesome if of good quality, and the use of several 
kinds is an easy means of securing variety in the diet.^' ^ As 
compared with most meats and vegetables, bread has prac- 
tically no waste, and is very completely digested. Pew foods 
yield so much energy for so little money. A diet of bread 
and milk can be perfectly balanced and will be tired of less 
easily than any other equally simple diet. 

All bread-stuffs should be eaten slowly and thoroughly 
masticated, in order that time may be given for the saliva 
to act upon the starch. For if the stomach is hampered with 
quantities of unchanged starch it cannot perform its work 
without effort. Fermentation results or the intestines have 
more than their share of work to do and rebel. If these foods 
were eaten slowly much of the resultant dyspepsia would be 
avoided. 

Gluten, Bread, TMien, for any reason, persons are denied 
starch in the diet, as in diabetes, they flnd it a great priva- 
tion to do without bread, and many attempts have been made 
to provide an acceptable substitute. Sometimes bran is used 
or inulin or Iceland moss, but none of these is nutritious. 
One of the best materials for this purpose is gluten flour. 

^From Farmer's Bulletin No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Waahinc- 
ton, D. 0. 



BREAD 

It is prepared by washing the starch, wholly or in part, from 
wheat flour. The grayish, tough, elastic, sticky mass left 
after this process is largely gluten, and since gluten is a, 
protein, it has been sometimes called " the lean meat of the 
vegetable kingdom." The washed gluten, dried and ground, 
is called gluten flour. 

It still contains considerable starch, so that it is necessary 
for the physician to know the exact composition of tiie brand 
employed, to insure good results. 

Gluten Standards. The necessity for a Standard for Gluten 
Flour is very apparent to chemists who have had occasion to 
analyze the various kinds on the market. For years millers 
have supplied dealers with middlings, entire wheat flour and 
mixtures containing bran to be sold as gluten fiour. Igno- 
rant of those facte, physicians advise their patients to use 
gluten, but, of course, have invariably been disappointed in 
results. 
United States Standard for Gluten : 

" Gluten Flour is the product made from flour by the re- 
moval of starch, and contains not less than five and sis- 
tenths (5.6) per cent, of Nitrogen, and not more than ten 
(10) per cent, of Moisture." 

Note. — Using the factor 0.25 usually employed by the U. 
S. Government chemists, Standard Gluten Flour must there- 
fore show at least thirty-five (35) per cent, protein, 

Bread-Making. The two practical methods of making 
bread are with yeast (fermented bread) and with cream of 
tartar and bicarbonate of soda (unfermented bread). 

Fermented Bread. The raising or leavening of bread is 
usually brought about by allowing yeast to develop in it. 
Yeast is an exceedingly minute form of plant life, which, 
when given food, flour, moisture and warmth, grows; and 
by this growth produces carbon dioside and alcohol. 

The carbon dioxide, in its effort to escape, puffs up the 
flour dough, but owing to the viscous nature of the gluten 
(the elastic, strength-giving substances of flour) it is caught 
and retained. 



250 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Each little bubble of gaa occupiea a certain space, 
when the bread is baked the walla around these spaces harden 
and the result is a porous loaf. The alcohol escapes into the 
oren in the haking. 

To bake bread requires a hot oven. 

The bread should continue to rise for about fifteen min- 
utes after being placed in the oven, then the rising should 
cease and the loaf begin to brown. 

We bake bread to kill the yeast plant, to render the starch 
soluble, to expel the alcohol and carbon dioxide and to form 
a nice flavored crust. 

The making of good bread requires care and intelligence 
on the part of the cook. L'se a good brand of flour, fresh 
yeast, remembering that yeast is a plant and must be put at 
a proper temperature to grow. Watch each process carefully. 

" Lightness and sweetness of bread depends as much on 
the way in which it is made as on the materials used. The 
greatest care should be used in preparing and baking the 
dough and in cooking and keeping the finished bread." 

Unfermented Bread. Carbon dioxide is obtained to lighten 
bread by causing cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda to 
unite chemically. 

To one part soda use two parts cream of tartar. When 
given moisture and heat carbon dioside is obtained. 

Baking powder is a combination of the following in- 
gredients : 

Bicarbonate of soda 64 gramnies t 

Cream of tartar ISB grammes 

Starch 6 to 20 per ceii 

WHITE FLOmi BKEAS 
1 slice (1 oz.) ^73 Calories. 
I pint hot iniTIc (or water). I tablespoon salt, 

1 pint cold milk (or water). 1 Fleischniann'e yeaat c 

1 tablespoon sugar. Flour. 

2 tablespoons butter or lard. 

Into mixing bowl put the scalded milk, add the bn) 
when melted add the sugar, salt and cold milk. Savet 



BREAD SSI 



1 

rt ^ 

re 

— - V- =' a I 

»tliiii batter, add softened yeast and more flour until BtifE ^^J 

enough to knead. Knead until light and spongy. Care ^^M 

Ehould be taken not to add more flour than is absolutely neceg- ^^M 

sary. Butter a lartre stone crock or bowl, place bread in it ^^H 

1 and velvety, put into pans, cover carefully and let rise one I 



half cup of this liquid, and when lukewarm soften the yeast 
in it and stand where it will keep warm. To above mixture 
add warmed sifted flour (sift twice before using) to make a 
thin batter, add softened yeast and more flour until stiff 
enough to knead. Knead until light and spongy. Care 
should be taken not to add more flour than ia absolutely n 
jary. Butter a large stone crock or bowl, place bread in it 
ind cover. Let rise three and one-half hours at about 75 
degrees Fahrenheit (in a medium warm room). Then re- 
move from jar and knead about twenty minutes until smooth 
and velvety, put into pans, cover carefully and let rise one 
hour or until double its bulk. 

Bake in a hot oven from forty-five minutes to one hour, 
depending upon size of loaves. 

If bard crust is desired, remove from pans and cool in a 
draft of air. For soft crust, before bread cools roll it in a 
clean cloth. 

This quantity will make three good sized loaves; one-half 
tiie amount may be used for one large loaf. 

ENTIEE WHEAT BREAD 

1 Blire (1 oz,) = Calo es 

2 cup9 Hcoliled milk. ea t cnk d at 1 ed n '^ cup 

2 cupB boiling water. lukewa iti wate 

3 tablespoons butter. up »h te Sou 

3 tablespoons salt. En e wheat flo enougb to 

6 tablespooDH molasaea, knead 

Make as for wheat flour bread, and add molasses after the 
first rising. 

One-half of recipe may be used. 

WHOLE WHEAT OB OBAHAH BBEAD 
Make the same as wheat flour bread, adding two table- 
spoons of sugar or molasses. Make a batter with white flour, 
using three or four cups, then use whole wheat or graham 
fiour. Ijct rise longer than for white bread, and put imme- 
diately into pans without second kneading. 
Note. — Omit sweetening if desired. 



252 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

GLUTEN BEEAD (FOE THE DIABETIC) 

1 slice (1 oz.) =71 Calories. 

% yeast cake. 3^^ cups Gum Gluten Flour. 

2 cups lukewarm water. ^ teaspoon salt. 

Soften the yeast in a small portion of the water and add 
to the ingredients. Mix to a stiff dough and knead thor- 
oughly, using more gluten if necessary to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board. Shape into a loaf, place in a buttered pan 
for about two and one-half hours to rise until the dough is 
about twice its bulk. Then bake for forty-five minutes. If 
desired the dough may be given a second mixing after the 
first rising, letting it rise again before baking. 

Note. — Gum Gluten Bread may be made the same as ordi- 
nary wheat flour bread with the exception of shortening, 
which is not required. 

Avoid having the water too warm or the bread will be 
sticky; the chill taken off is all that is necessary. 

If desired, one cup of nut meats cut in small pieces may be 
added to dough just before putting into pans. 

BEAN BEEAD 

Follow rule for Gluten Bread, using one part of bran 
to four parts of Gluten Flour with one cup of moisture. If 
the bran is increased the moisture must be lessened. 

BOSTON BEOWN BEEAD, 2530 CALOEIES 

1 small slice (1 oz.j =64 Calories. 

1 cup granulated Indian meal. 2 cups sour milk. 

1 cup rye flour. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 cup graham flour. % cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients (except soda) together; dissolve soda 
in sour milk and add, then, molasses. Pour into buttered tins 
and steam three or four hours. 

GLUTEN BISCUIT (FOE THE DIABETIC), 950 CALOEISSi 

1 cup Gum Gluten Self-raising. 1 saltspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon butter. Milk or water. 

» Without milk. 



Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk 
or water to make a soft dough. EoU and cut with biscuit 
cutter. Makes two large biscuits. 

OLUTEH DEOF BISCTTIT (PDE TEE DIABETIC), Se2 CALOKIESi 

1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. ' Vi teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon butter. Milk or water, 

■/j teaspoon Bait, 

Mix and sift dry iugredients, rub in tlie butter, add milk 
or water to make a stiff batter. Drop from spoon into a 
buttered pun, and bake very quickly. Makes three. 

BRAN BISCUIT, 416 CAXORTES i 

Vi eup wheat bran. 1 teaapaon melted butter, 

i/i cup improved graham flour. 1 saltspoon Bait. 
1 teaspoon Runiford baking pow- Milk, 

Sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter and add mi!k to 
make a soft dough. IJolI it out and bake in hot oven. 

BAEHIG FOWDEE BISCUIT, 6B4 CALORIES 

1 eup flour. 1 tablespoon butter or beef drip- 

8 teaspoons Rum ford baking ping- 
powder. Vi cup (scant) milk or water. 
y^ teaspoon salt. 

Sift dry ingredients twice, rub in the butter with tips of 
fingers; using knife, stir in gradually the liquid; mix aa 
soft as can be handled ; put dough on a well-floured board, 
pat lightly to one inch thickness, cut with biscuit cutter, 
put on a shallow buttered tin, heated, and bake in a hot oven. 
Put a little milk on top of each biscuit before baking to 
make them brown well. 

Note. — Dough may be lightly kneaded as for bread, and 
then cut. 

GLUTEN MUFFINS (FOE THE DIABETIC), 75B CALORIES 

1 cup Gutn ntuten Seif-raiaing. y^ teaspoon salt. 
1 eup milk, or part water. 1 egg. 



I 



254 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Beat egg and add the milk. Sift the Gluten and salt and 
gradually add the liquid and beat thoroughly. Bake in hot 
buttered gem pans. 

BBAK XTTPriNS, 1850 CALOSISS 

2 cups bran. ^^ cup butter. 

1 cup flour. 3 tablespoons molasses. 

1 teaspoon soda. 1^2 cups sour milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter with the tips of the 
fingers, add molasses and sour milk, put into hot muffin tins 
and bake in a hot oven. 

WHITE OEMS, ie27 CALORIES 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
4 teaspoons Rumford baking 2 eggs. 

powder. 1 cup milk. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add melted butter 
and rub it in with tips of fingers. Add the well-beaten eggs 
and the milk gradually and beat all well together. Have 
gem pans well greased and heated; fill two-thirds full and 
bake in a very hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Put a 
little melted butter on each gem before putting it into the 
oven. They are sufficiently cooked when tested with a fine 
washed knitting needle and it comes out dry. 

COBNMEAL GEMS, 1370 CALORIES 

1 cup flour. ^ teaspoon salt. 

l^ cup cornmeal. 1 egg. 

Vs cup sugar. 1 cup milk. 

4 teaspoons Rumford baking 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
powder. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and 
well-beaten egg and the melted butter. Put into well-greased 
hot gems and cook in a quick oven. 

POP-OVEBS, 730 CALORIES 

1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup flour. 



TOAST 255 

Beat egg until very light, add milk and salt and sift in the 
flour very carefully — beat very light, never stirring. Have 
ready gem pans or stone custard eupSj well greased and heated. 
Pour in mixture, tilling two-thirda full, and bake in quick 
oven. Tills will make six large pop-overs. The eucceea of 
these pop-overs lies in beating the batter well and in having 
the cups very hot before putting in the mixture. 

Note. — These cannot be cooked Buccessfully in tin. 

BTTITER BALLS 
1 teaspoon butter = 36 Calories. 

Cut butter in small pieces size of balls desired, and put 
in ice-water. Soak the butter paddles in boiling water ten 
minutes, then chill in ice-water. Hold a paddle firmly in 
the left hand and roll each piece of butter with the right 
paddle until round. If butter sticks it must be chilled longer, 
or paddles must be rubbed with salt and reheated. 

One pound of butter will make about thirty balls. 

TOAST 

In ordinary wheat bread, starch is the principal constituent. 
Starcli wlieu subjected to a high degree of heat is changed 
into an easily digested substance called dextrin. 

In the ordinary cooking of a loaf of bread the starch, in 
the outer layer is changed into dextrin, which gives the crust 
its sweet flavor. Slices of bread toasted undergo a similar 
change. 

Bread is toasted not merely to brown it, but to take out 
all the moisture possible, so that it may be more thoroughly 
moietened with the saliva, and thus easily digested; also 
to give it a better flavor. The correct way to make toast is 
to use stale bread cut in uniform slices, and to dry it thor- 
oughly before browning. 

Toast prepared in this way, even if moistened with millr 
or water, may he easily and thoroughly acted upon by the 
digestive fluids. 



L 



256 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

EHEBGT YALITE OP BREAD 

1 slice ( 1 oz.) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz. ) entire wheat bread =70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread =71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston Brown Bread.. =64 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SIPPETS 

Cut thin slices of bread, and from them make oblongs an 
inch wide by four inches long. Toast carefully so that they 
will not break, and pile on a small bread-plate with doily if 
they are to be served dry. 

TOAST STICKS 

Take a slice of fresh home-made bread (made without short- 
ening), or French bread, cut five-eighths of an inch thick, re- 
move crust and cut in narrow strips. Place on rack in pan, 
and dry and brown in a slow oven. 

CBOTTTONS 

See chapter " Soup Accompaniments " for recipe. Page 
230. 

OLTJTEN CBISP (POE THE DIABETIC) 

Cut Gum Gluten Bread into thin slices, and dry in slow 
oven until the moistening is thoroughly evaporated, or the 
bread may be cut in cubes and slightly browned. Serve in 
soups or in milk. 

Note. — Gluten Biscuit Crisps, page 261. 

WATEB TOAST 

* 

Toast the bread. Dip quickly in boiling salted water (al- 
lowing one-half teaspoon salt to one cup water). Spread 
with butter. Serve on hot plate. 

TOASTED CBACKEBS 
1 Saltme == 15 Calories. 

Toast oblong crackers daintily, and butter. Serve on plate 
with doily, piled log-cabin fashion. 



TOAST 257 

mLK TOAST, 388 CALOEIES 

Put a cup of rich milk in a saucepan and place it on the 
stove. While it is heating, toast three slices of bread to a 
delicate brown. Put them into a covered dish, and when the 
milk is scalding hot, season it with a saltspoon of salt, and 
pour it over the toast. 

Note. — A little butter may be spread on each slice before 
the milk is added, but it is a more delicate dish without it. 

CREAM TOAST NO. I, 261 CALOILCES 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ tablespoon butter. 14 cup milk. 

l^ tablespoon flour. 1^^ slices bread. 

V^ saltspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire 
and add the milk gradually. Stir over heat constantly until 
smooth, cooking five minutes after blending, or until the 
starch is thoroughly cooked. 

Toast: Eemove crust if desired, cut in oblong pieces and 
toast. Serve on small platter with cream sauce poured over 
it, and garnish with toast points. 

Note. — If you wish the toast very soft, it may be dipped 
very quickly in boiling salted water before adding the cream 
sauce. 

CEEAM TOAST NO. H, 261 CALORIES 

Yz tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon cold water. 

14 tablespoon flour. Yg cup milk. 

14 saltspoon salt. 1^ slices toast. 

Scald milk. Mix flour and salt and add the cold water 
gradually, making a smooth, thin paste. Add to scalded 
milk; cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Add butter. Pour over toast, and 
serve hot, op. hot platter. 

CELERY TOAST 
4 oiinoes celery = 12 Calories. 

Clean celery and cut into one-inch pieces; cover with boil- 
ing water and cook until tender ; drain off water. 



258 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Prepare Cream Sauce in Cream Toast No. I ; add cooked 
celery and pour on Bmall slices of buttered toast. Garnish 
with toast points. 

FKENCE TOAST (FOB THE DIABETIC), 144 CALORIEI » ^^m 

% cup milk. Salt. ^^H 

1 egg. Uluten bread. ^^^| 

Beat the egg, add milk and salt; dip into this mix^^n 
slices of Gum Gluten bread. Saute and brown in a little 
butter. 

CLAM BBOTH AltD TOAST 

Follow directions as for Milk or Cream Toast, adding Huffi- ' 
cieut Clam Broth (to taste) to the Sauce, and pour over toast 
Serve hot. .^^^ 

SANDWICHES ^^| 

TO FBEPABE SANDWICHES ^^T 

Use white, entire wheat, graham, gluten or Boston brovn 
bread. Bread may he buttered before cutting from loaf, 
spread with soft, plain butter cut into very thin slices, cotct 
with another slice, press together, cut in fancy shapes, or 
roll. Wrap in waxed paper or cover with a dry napkin, 
over which place a slightly moistened one, until ready to 
serve. 

Bread may be baked purposely for sandwiches by filling 
one-half pound baking powder boxes half fuU of dough, let 
rise and bake. Serve sandwiches on a dainty doily on a 
small plate. 

ENEBOT VALUE OF BBEAD 



1 Blice (1 oz.) white bread =73 Calorii 

1 Rlice {1 oz.) entire wheat bread =70 Catorii 

1 slice (1 oi.) gluten bread zzr 71 Caforiei.™ 

1 small aliee (1 oi.) Boston Brown Bread.. =04 Calories. 
1 teaspoon butter ^36 Caloriea. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

'Osleulaled withont bread. 



■^ SANDWICHES 269 

■ BEEAO AND BiriTER SAHSWIGHES 

Butter bread slightly, cut very thin and put slicea to- 
gether. Cut in fancy shapes. 

BOSTON BBOWN BREAD BAKDWICHES 

Steam Boston brown bread in one-half pound baking pow- 
der cans. Butter and cut in thin slices and add a thin round 
of white bread. The combination of the two makes a pleas- 
ing variety. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Chop stuffed olives fine and add equal quantity of cream 
cheese and spread on bread and butter aandwiches, A lettuce 
leaf may be added if desired. 

CEICKEIT SANDWICHES 

Chop cold boiled chicken, add mayonnaise dressing and 
Bpread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

Or, instead of mayonnaise, moisten with strong chicken 
broth and season with salt and pepper. Minced celery may 
be added. 

EGO SANDWICHES 

See chapter " Eggs " for recipe. Page 183. 

FEinT SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with stewed dates, 
figs or prunes, seasoned with a little lemon juice or chop 
dates, raisins and nuts very fine and moisten with " Cream 
Dressing." See page 274. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with a little mayon- 
naise dressing, !ay in fresh, crisp lettuce leaves washed and 
dried thoroughly, and cut even. 

L Nirr SANDWICHES 

B prepare same aa lettuce sandwiches, adding chopped nuts 

I to the mayonnaise. 



I 



260 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

PEPTONOISS SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of bread in fancy shapes, butter and spread with 
layer of Dry Peptonoids Soluble, adding salt, pepper, paprika 
or celery salt, if desired. 

Note. — Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be blended with 
mayonnaise dressing, cream, chopped nuts or eggs, for filling. 

EAW BEEP SANDWICHES 

See chapter ^^ Beef Preparations '^ for recipe. Page 217. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Homove oil and bones from canned sardines. Mix with 
Boih;d Dressing (page 273) to form a paste and spread. 
Chopped olives or gherkins may be added. 

CEACKEES — WAFEES 

BRAN CBACHERS, 1513 CALORIES i 

l^^ cups wheat bran. Yg teaspoon salt. 

V/2 cups sifted flour. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Milk. 

Yg teaspoon soda. 

Blend all ingredients, using enough cold milk to make a 
stiff dough. Koll to one-eighth inch thickness and cut with 
a small biscuit cutter. Great care is needed in baking that 
they do not burn and at the same time that they are thor- 
oughly cooked. 

They keep well a long time if put in a tin box. 

They should be eaten at each meal if needed as purgative 
medicine. 

GLUTEN CEACKEBS (FOB THE DIABETIC), 2555 CALORIES 

1 pound Gum Gluten Flour. Sweetina. 

14 pound butter. Cold water. 

Salt. 

I Without milk. 



CRA CKEBS — WA FEES S 

Mix thoroughly the Gum Gluten Flour with the butter^ 
add salt and Sweefina to taste. Add cold water to make a. 
Hoft dough, Tosa on floured board, roll tliin, cut into shape,, 
bake. 

OLITTEir VAEEBS (FOB. TEE DIABETIC) 
Yn cup thick cream^432 Cal- Gum Gluteu Flour (1 cup^5I3 

oriea. CalocieB). 

1 saltspoon salt. 

Add salt to the cream and add the Gluten gradually to 
make a stiff dough. Toss on a flonred board and lotl as 
thinly as possible and cut in strips with sharp knife or shape 
with a cutter. Bake in a buttered sheet in a alow oven until 
delicately browned. 

OLUTEN BISCUIT CBISP8 (FOB THE DIABETIC) 
1 biscuit crisp ^25 Calories. 
Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be served plain, or but- 
tered and heated slightly in oven. 

QLUTEN CHEESE WAFEBS (FOB. TEE DIABETIC), 882 CALORIES'. 

1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. Yolks 2 egga. 

3 tablespoDiiH cream. 1 aaltspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons grated cheese. Kutmeg. 

Mis in order given, roll thin and bake. 

VEGETABLES — VSaETASLE SAfCES 
LESTTHES — BOOTS AHD TITBEBS— OBEEN TEOETABLZS 

Vegetables include nearly all kinds of plant food except 
fruits, grains and nuts. 

Classification. Vegetables are classified as — 
Legumes — -as peas, beans and lentils. 
Soots and Tubers — as potatoes, beets, turnips, etc. 
Green Vegetables — as lettuce, spinach, celery, etc. 
Composition. All vegetables have a high percentage of 
water, and with the exception of legumes, a relatively small 
proportion of protein. The chief nutrients are starch and 



262 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

sugar. The fats arc usually small in amount and chiefly in 
the form of oils. A variety of mineral salts are present, 
diiefly salts of potash and soda united with organic acids. 
A'egetables give bulk to food and possess antiscorbutic prop- 
erties. 

Digestibility. As the gastric ferments play no part in 
carbohydrate digestion, vegetables are digested mainly in the 
intestines. The presence of cellulose prevents the ready di- 
gestion of the nutrients, hence it may be stated as a general 
rule that vegetable food is less completely digested and ab- 
sorbed than animal food. It would seem desirable to restrict 
this type of food for persons of very weak digestive powers. 

General Rules far Cool'ing Vegetables, Wash thoroughly; 
pare, peel, or scrape, according to the kind. Let them stand 
in cold water until ready to cook, to keep them crisp, to 
freshen them when wilted, or to prevent them from turning 
dark. 

Cook in enough freshly boiling salted water to cover, and 
keep the water boiling (not rapid boiling, as tender vegetables 
are easily broken). Allow one teaspoon of salt to one quart 
of water. Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, 
except in the case of delicate green vegetables, as peas. 
spinach, etc., when it should not be added until nearly done. 
To preserve the color, cook green vegetables uncovered. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender, drained im- 
■ mediately, and served promptly. Overcooking injures their 
'- -flavor and makes them tough. Time for cooking vegetables 
varies with the size, age and freshness. 

Legumes. Of this class of food-stufls, peas and beans are 
the most important. Lentils and peanuts are also valuable, 
but less widely used. 

Composition. Fresh legumes, such as peas and beans, con- 
tain from 2 per cent, to 9 per cent, of protein, a trace of &t 
and from 7 per cent, to 30 per cent, of carbohydrate. 

Dried legumes, such as dried peas and beans, on account 
of the lessened amount of water, contain from 18 per cent, to 
35 per cent, of protein, over 1 per cent, fat, and as hig^ 



VEGETABLES 263 

65 per cent, carbohydrate. Tliey foi'in one of the chief sources 
of protein in a strictly vegetarian diet. 

Digestibility. Digestibility depends largely upon the 
method of cooking and the amount eaten. The more the 
cellulose is softened or removed, the more completely they 
are utilized. Legumes are apt to produce fermentation, 
which causes flatulence and gastro-intestinal disturbance. 
They are more suitable for those leading an active outdoor 
life than for invalids, convalescents, or those of sedentary 
habits. 

Principles of Cooking. The attractiveness and digestibility 
of dried legumes depends very greatly on proper cooking. 
Hard water must not be used, as it makes them hard and 
unpalatable, and causes a considerable loss of protein. 
Water softened by boiling ia more desirable than that soft- 
ened by baking soda. l\Tien cooked in the former, the dried 
legumes, especially heans, keep their shape better, are only 
very slightly colored yellow, and are more mealy, conse- 
quently more digestible, as the digestive juices can more 
easily mingle with the particles of the food. 

BootB and Tuben. Boots and tubers contain the reserve 
material stored up by the plant, and some of them are among 
the important food-stuffs. Their nutritive value is largely 
due to starch and sugar. On account of the small proportion 
of protein and fat, and the large proportion of water, they 
are inferior in nutritive value to both legumes and cereals. 
The mineral matter is an important constituent of these, as 
of other vegetable foods. Sodium, potassium and iron salts, 
and sulphur and phosphorus compounds, are the common ash 
constituents. In combination with organic acids, etc., they 
contribute much to the flavor of these foods. 

As a class they may be divided into the following groups : 

1. Starch-yielding vegetables, as potatoes and sweet pota- 
toes. 

2. Succulent roots, as beets, carrots, parsnips and onions, o 

3. Condimental or flavoring roota, as horse-radish and gin- 



864 TEOETABLE OH PLANT FOODS 



^1 j-iie puLULu IB lue uiuol iiujjuii.ain ui. tuu ei.»ri;ii-_)'it'iuj.ijg i 

jund 

able 

Bv ' 



The potato is the most important of the starch -yielding 
class of vegetables. It ie a tuber or thickened underground 
-stem. 
, [The composition of the potato (Letheby) is as follows: 

[ Water 75.00 per cent. 

I Starch 18.80 per cent. I 

I Nitrogenous matter 2.00 per c 

I Sugar 3.00 per cent. 

\ Fat 20 per c 

When pared before cooking, there may be a considerable 
loss of nutritive material, especially of mineral matter. By 
cooking in the skin, this loss is largely prevented. To be 
easily digestible, a potato must be mealy, bo as to be readily 
acted on by digestive juices. This is best accomplished by 
baking in an oven at 380 to 400° F. When a patient begins 
to take solids, the vegetable usually first prescribed is a baked 
potato. 

Beets, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips and onions aia 
the most common of the class of succulent roots. They eon- 
tain, as a rule, more water than the starch-yielding class of 
vegetables, and their carbohydrates are frequently in the form 
of sugars, pectins, and other polysaccharide carbohydrates 
than true starch, some of which have no nutritive value. The 
percentage of crude fiber is greater than in the starch-yield- 
ing class. 

The characteristic flavors and odors are in many cases due 
to the presence of volatile organic compounds of sulphur. 
These are often advantageous in making the vegetables pal- 
atable, and adding variety to the diet. 

The beet contains a large percentage of starch and sugar. 

Carrots and parsnips also contain much sugar, and when 
young and tender form a very nutritious food. 

Onions contain considerable nutriment, but are most val- 
uable for their pungent oil, which is rich in sulphur. They 
have diuretic properties, and are useful in constipation. 

Badishes contain a large amount of cellulose and should 
not be eaten by invalids. They are chiefly used as a relish. 



mom a I 
i3h.-^H 



VEGETABLES 265 

Oreen Vegetables. These vegetables have a fuel value of 
less than 200 calories per pound; they are useful chiefly for 
their mineral salts, and for the bulk, variety and relish they 
give to the diet. 

Asparagus is easily digested, even by invalids. It has a 
diuretic action, and imparts a characteristic odor to the urine 
for some hours. 

Cabbage contains considerable sulphur and therefore fre- 
quently causes flatulence. 

Cauliflower belongs to the cabbage family, but is easily 
digested. 

Celery is more digestible cooked than raw. 

Spinach is especially valuable for its large amount of iron. 

ENERGY VALUE OF THE POTATO 
1 medium potato (3l^ ozs.) =83 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and put into 
cold water to keep from discoloring. Put them into sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, boil and when partly cooked, 
add one tablespoon salt to every six potatoes. Cook until 
soft, about twenty-five to thirty minutes, drain very dry, and 
shake the pan, without a cover, gently over the stove till 
the potatoes are mealy. Do not serve in covered dish. 

BICED POTATOES 

Add salt and pepper to boiled potatoes, and rub them 
through a heated potato-ricer or squash-strainer into the (hot) 
dish they are to be served in. Serve immediately, or pour 
a little milk over the top and brown in the oven. 

HASHED POTATOES, 305 CALORIES 

For mashed potatoes the uneven sizes may be used; the 
larger ones should be cut, so all will be of uniform size* 
Prepare as for boiled potatoes. When cooked and dried, add 
salt, butter, pepper and cream in following proportion : 



2«G VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

1 pint poUtoet. % aaltspoon white pepper. 

y^ teaapoon salt. 2 teaspoons hot cream or milL 

1 tubleHpoon butter. 

To tlie potatoes add the salt, pepper and butter, and mash, 
leaving tliein in saucepan cooked in, and on stove so as to 
kwp them liot. Use open-wire masher or fork and beat 
(juickly, so they may be light and dry, not *^ gummy.'* Lastly 
put in the cream, beat for a moment and serve immediately. 

POTATO CAXZ8 

From cold mashed potatoes make slightly flattened balk. 
Put tliem in a floured tin, brush each over with milk and 
bake in a hot oven five minutes, or till a delicate brown. 

Xote. — These cakes may be saut6ed m a little beef fat or 
butter if desired. 

STTBPRISE BALLS 

Roll the potatoes into balls as above, and with a teaspoon 
press a hollow in the top. Chop fine some cold, lean meat, 
season it with salt, pepper and gravy and put one teaspoon 
of the meat into the hollow of the potato ball. Put a little 
milk or melted butter on top and brown in oven or saut6. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size, not very large, wash and 
scrub thoroughly, cut off a small piece at each end in order 
that the steam may escape. Bake in hot oven from forty-five 
to fifty minutes. When baked break open slightly, <that .steam 
may escape, and serve on folded napkin. 

POTATOES BAKED IK THE HALF SHELL 

Cut off top of baked potato and scoop out inside. Mash 
and season well as for mashed potatoes and add the well- 
beaten white of egg. Fill the skins with the mixture, heap- 
ing it lightly on top, brush over with milk or slightly beaten 
white of egg and brown slightly. Potatoes may be sprinkled 
with grated cheese before putting into oven. 



VEGETABLES 267 

POTATOES AU SRATIN 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and put into a butteied 
baking diali. Cover with white sauce, put buttered cracker 
or bread crumbs on top and bake until golden brown. 

Note.— A little grated cheese added to the White Sauce 
just before pouring over the potatoes adds a pleasant flavor. 
CREAMED F0TATOE5, 180 CAXOKIES 
1 cup cold sliced or cubed po- '/, teaapoon Halt. 

tatoes, ■ V4 teaspoon finelj chopped pari- 

% cup milk. lej. 

y, tablespoon butUr. Speck white pepper. 

Heat the milk, add the potatoes, and cook until they have 
nearly absorbed the milk. Add butter and seasoning, cook 
five minutes longer, add parsley and serve hot. 
POTATO BALLS 
From large potatoes cut balls with a French potato cutter 
and throw them into cold water. Cook for twelve minutes 
or more in enough boiling water to cover. Salt at end of 
six minutes. Drain and let them stand a few minutes to 
dry. Serve as a vegetable, with cream sauce, or with parsley 
butter, or nae as a garnish for broiled fish. Teat potatoes 
with a needle to see when tender. 

Note. — Make mashed potatoes from frames left after cut- 
ting out the balls. 

FASSLET BVTTEE, 3G8 CALOBIES 
1 tablespoon butter. Juiee Vi lemon. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 pint potato balls. 

Cream the butter, add lemon juice and chopped parsley. 
Add to the hot potato balls, heat five minutes and serve. 
Omit lemon juice if desired. 

ASPAEAaiTS 



Boiled Asparagus. Prepare asparagus by cutting off lower 
part of stalk at Oie point at which they will snap. Wash, 



268 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

remove scales and tie together or cut into one inch pieces 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, twenty to thirty-five 
minutes. As the tips are more tender keep them out of water 
the first ten minutes of the cooking. Drain, place in hot 
serving dish, spread with one-half teaspoon butter and sprin- 
kle with salt. 

Asparagus on Toast. Serve boiled asparagus on buttered 
toast, moistened with a little of the liquid the asparagus is 
cooked in. 

Cream Asparagus, Plain or on Toast. Pour Cream Sauce 
No. I over boiled asparagus and serve hot, or serve boiled 
asparagus on toast and pour Cream Sauce No. I over same. 

CARROTS 

1 small carrot (2 ozs.) =20 Calories. 

Boiled Carrots. Wash, scrub and scrape off the very thin 
skin. Cut each carrot into slices from one-fourth to one- 
fifth inch thick, cut into cubes and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft, forty-five to sixty minutes. They may be 
served plain with a little melted butter, salt and pepper, or 
they may be mashed and seasoned as above. 

Creamed Carrots. Pour Creamed Sauce No. I over boiled 
cubed carrot, reheat and serve. 

CAXTLIFLOWER 

1 serving (4 ozs.) =35 Calories. 

Boiled Cauliflower. Cut off stalk and remove leaves of 
cauliflower. Soak thirty minutes in cold water to cover, head 
down. Cook, head up, twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft, 
in boiling salted water. Drain and separate flowerets. 

Creamed Cauliflower. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
cauliflower, reheat and serve. 

CELERY 
1 serving (2 ozs.) =:6 Calories. 

Scrape celery. Cut stalks in one-half inch pieces and 
cook uncovered in boiling salted water twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Serve with Cream Sauce No. I poured over it. Sauce 



VEGETABLES 2 

can be made using part milk and part water in whieli celery 
was cooked. 

SPINACH — 3 ANSELIOITS — BEET QUEENS 
1 serving (4 oza.) ^27 Calories. 

Eemove roota, pick over carefully (discarding wilted leaves) 
and waah thoroughly in many waters until free from sand; 
cook in boiling salted water, allowing one-fourth as much 
water as greens. Cook twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain 
and chop if desired, reheat, season with butter and salt; gar- 
nish with slices of hard-cooked egg. Serve with vinegar. 
ONIOKS 
1 serving (i oza.) ^::^B6 CalorieH. 

Boiled Onions. Put onions into pan of cold water and peel 
under water. Put them into boiling water with one teaspoon 
Bait and one-fourth teaspoon soda to one quart water. After 
cooking five minutes potir off the water and add fresh boiling 
salted water, and after ten minutes change the water again. 
Boil until tender — forty-five to sixty minutes. Drain off 
the water and add a little milk, cook a few moments and add 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Onions. Pour Cream Sauce No, I over boiled 
onions, reheat and serve. 

Scalloped Onions. Place onions in a baking dish and add 
Cream Sauce No. I. Cover top with buttered cracker or 
bread crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown, 

PEAS (GKEEN OR CANNED) 
1 nen'ing (1 ozfl.) =114 Calories. 
Green Peas. Remove peas from pods, cover with cold 
water and let stand one-half hour. Skim off small peas that 
come to the top and drain remaining peas. Cook until soft, 
tliirty to forty-five minutes, in a small quantity of water. 
There should be little or no water to drain from peas when 
they are cooked. A small quantity of sugar may be added 
if the natural sweetness of the peas has been lost. Season 
with butter and salt 



270 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Canned Peas should be drained and thoroughly riiwed, 
cover with boiling water, boil two minutes and again drain, 
then add a small quantity of boiling water and cook from 
five to ten minutes. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Peas No. I. To one-third cup of cooked peas 
add one teaspoon of flour mixed with one-eighth teaspoon of 
sugar. Cook slightly and add one tablespoon of cream, and 
salt and pepper to taste. = 75 calories. 

Creamed Peas No. II. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over 
drained cooked peas, reheat and serve. 

STRING BEAKS 
1 servmg (4 ozs.) =44 Calories. 

Eemove strings from beans and cut or snap into one inch 
pieces. Wash and cook in boiling water until tender (one 
to three hours). Drain and season with butter and salt. 
Cook beans in as little water as possible. Select fresh beans 
that will snap easily. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 medium tomato =16 Calories. 

1 cup canned tomato =51 Calories. 

Canned or fresh tomatoes may be used. To prepare fresh 
tomatoes wash, pour boiling water over them and then peel 
and cut into pieces, put in saucepan and cook slowly twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a few bread or cracker 
crumbs and season with butter, salt and pepper. Bread and 
cracker crumbs may be omitted. A little sugar may be added 
if tomatoes are very acid. 

BAXED TOMATOES 

1 medium tomato = 16 Calories. 

Wash, dry and remove a thin slice from stem end of to- 
mato. Eemove seeds and pulp, and drain off most of the 
liquid; to the pulp add an equal quantity of cracker crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion, or a 
few drops of onion juice. Eefill tomatoes with mixture and 



VEGETABLE SAUCES 271 

place in a buttered tin; aprinkle with buttered cracker 
cruniljs, bake twenty to thirty minutes iu a hot oven. 

SCAXLOFES TOMATOES (FOE TEE DIABETIC), IBS CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 large ripe tama.to. 3 Gum Gluteu Biacuit Crigps. 

Salt, pepper. 2 teikapoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp; and place on top of this one-half 
the tomato, from which the skin has been removed and then 
cut in small pieces ; season well with salt, pepper and bits of 
butter. Add another layer of crumbs (one crushed Biscuit 
Crisp), then the remaining tomato and seasoning, lastly 
crumbs. Place bits of butter on top, put in slow oven and 
hake twenty io thirty minutes. 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 
CEEAS OK WHITE SAUCE SO. I, 152 CAIOEIESi 

Use to pour over any vegetable. 
(Individual Rule.) 
y, cup milk or thin eream. Vi saltspi^n salt. 

Va tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

Vf ta.bleapcion flour. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove 
from stove, add tlie flour, then the scalding milk gradually, 
put over heat and cook, stirring constantly, until smooth 
and there is no raw taste of starch. 

This sauce may be used in many ways — with creamed oys- 
ters, sweetbreads, any cream dish or any scalloped dish. If 
a thick sauce ia desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

CBEAK SAUCE HO. U, 134 CALOEIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk or thin ercam. 1 teaspoon butter. 



I 



272 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Scald the cream. Wet the flour with a little cold milk t 
make a smooth mixture, and add to the hot cream. Cook 
well. Just before Berving add the hutter and salt, and pep- 
per if desired. 

SaUce blended in this way ie especially easy of digestion. 
If a thick sauce is desired, uae one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. ^^ 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS ^B 

The salad plants, such as lettuce, celery, water cress, en- 
dives, etc, contain little nutriment, but are especially rich 
in mineral matter, and served uncooked in the form of salad, 
all this mineral matter i^ preserved. They are very valuable, 
as these mineral substances are necessaiy for the healthy 
condition of the blood and should form a large part of the 
daily diet. 

Salads should not be eaten by dyspeptics or those having 
delicate bowels. 

Salads should be prepared daintily, arranged attractively 
and always be served cold. Lettuce and other salad plants 
should be fresh, crisp, and dry. Wash thoroughly, on account 
of danger of germs from dust, soil, etc., chill in very cold 
water until crisp and dry by placing on a clean towel so that 
the water will drain from the leaves; or fold lightly in a 
towel and place on ice until serving time. Parsley is re- 
vived quickly by sprinkling with cold water and putting it 
into an air-tight fruit ]ar and keeping it in a cold place. 
Treate<i in this way Jt will keep fresh a long time. 

Dressing should not be added to green vegetables until 
just before serving, as it tends to wilt them. 

Meat to be used in salads should be free from skin and 
gristle, and should be cut into small cubes, mixed with French 
dressing and allowed to stand some time before combining 
with the vegetables. 

A dainty salad served with a crisp cracker or cheese waf« 



SALAD DRESSING S 

fomiB an acceptable luncheon for the convalescent. It may 
also he served with dinner. 

FSENCH SKESSIVa. 270 CALORIES 
(Individual Kule, % of Kecipe.) 

1 tablespoon vinegar. y^ teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons Nlcelle olive oil. '/;, saltspoon pepper. 

Mix ail ingredients thoroughly and pour over salad juat 
before serving. 

BOILED SRESSIKO, 483 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, H of Recipe, } 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

'/a teaspoon mustard, '/i. cup milk. 

Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar, "4 cup vinegar. 

Mi.x all dry ingredients. Beat egg in double boiler, add 
dry ingredients, butter and milk; cook over hot water, stir- 
ring constantly until thick like cnstard; add vinegar; cool 
and serve. 

Note. — If it curdles, beat over cold water until smooth. 

HATOITNAISE DRESSING, 2570 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule, ^ of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon mustard. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons powdered sugar. ly^ cups Nicelle olive oil. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
Speck cayenne, 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Mix dry ingredients, add to yolks and mix thoroughly. 
Add a few drops of oil at a time until one-half cup ia used, 
beating with egg-beater or wooden spoon. Then add al- 
ternately a few drops of vinegar and lemon juice and the 
remainder of the oil, using care not to lose the stiff con- 
eistency. It should be a thick dressing and not added to 
food until Just before serving. 

Note. — Have all ingredients and utensils thoroughly 
chilled and place mixing bowl ia a pan of crushed ice while 
blending. 



U 



1 



374 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

If dresaing curdles, take another egg yolk and add 
cnrdled mixture to it slowly, beating constantly. 

Note. — One-half o;' one-fourth of recipe may be prepared. 
Ab it will keep well it is best to prepare in larger quantil 
thus saving labor. 

CBEAK DEESBIira, 1697 CAXOKUS 
(For Fruit Salads.) 
% cup butter. 1 teaspoon iQUstard. 

2 tableHpoonH flour, 1 tablespoon cider vii 

1 cup si^alded milk. 1 teuBpoon. salt. 

3 yolks of egga. '/a cup vinegar. 
3 wbitea of egga. Vt cup sugar. 

(a) Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour and pour on 
gradually the scalding milk, cook thoroughly, stirring con- 
stantly. (6) Beat yolks in top of double boiler, add the 
mustard (dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar), salt and 
vinegar. Pour (a) gradually on the egg mixture and cook 
over hot water until it thickens like soft custard, remove from 
fire, a(!d the sugar and fold in the stiffly-beaten white of eggs. 
Pour into glass fruit ]ar, cool and cover and keep on ice. 
This dressing will keep a long time and Is especially delicious 
to serve with fruit salads. 

CHICEEIT SALAD, SSS CAIOEIES 
(Six Servings.) 

2 cups cut cbicken. '/^ saltspoon pepper. 

1 cup cut celery. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

2 tablespoons Nicelle olive oil. 2 tablespoons mayonnAiM, 
] GDltapoon salt. 

Mayonnaise, olives, celery leaves or white lettuce for 



'%! 



J 



Cut the cold chicken into small dice ; cut the cleaned celery 
into small uniform pieces. Mix these together and pour over 
the oil. Mix well, then sprinkle with salt and pepper to 
tasfe; add the vinegar, blend and put in colander to drain; 
set in a cold place for two or three hours. Just before serv- 
ing add the mayonnaise, put on a bed of lettuce and garnish. 

Note. — Do not mince chicken. 



and garnishj^^i 



SALADS 275 

FBUIT SALADS 

Anj combination of fruit desired may be used served with 
"Cream Dressing." An attractive combination is a banana 
peeled, cut in half crosswise. Cut one-half lengthwise, ar- 
range on lettuce leaf, add a little Cream Dressing and gar- 
nish with malaga grapes (cut in half and seeded) and small 
pieces of English walnuts. 

UARQimaJTS SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg cut crosswise. Eemove yolk. Cut 
white in slices, petal fashion, arrange on lettuce leaf like a 
marguerite and fill. the center with the yolk put through the 
potato-ricer or strainer. Garnish with parsley and serve 
with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

KIXEP SALAD 

Equal proportions of green peag (cooked and drained), 
celery cut in thin slices and English walnuts cut into small 
pieces. Season with salt and pepper, add mayonnaise and 
serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with ripe cherries on the 
stem with blanched haze! nuts put in place of stones, 

SWEETBKEAD SALAD 

Mix equal parts of parboiled sweetbreads cut into one-half 
inch cubes and celery cut into thin slices. Season with salt 
and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Arrange daintily 
on lettuce leaves. 

TOHATO SALAD 

Take some medium sized tomatoes, cover with boiling 
water, remove skin and put in refrigerator until ready to 
serve. Then cut off top of tomato, scoop out a part of the 
inside and fill with finely cut celery mixed with boiled dress- 
ing or with mayonnaise. Serve tomato on lettuce leaf and 
garnish with sprig of parsley. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Mix equal parts of apples, pared and cut into small cubes, 
celery sliced in thin circles and English walnuts cut into 



276 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

small pieces. Season with salt and moisten with mayonnaistt, 
Serve on lettuce leaf, garnished with a spoonful of whipped 
cream and halves of English walnuts or pecans. 
WATER LILY SALAD 

One hard-eooked egg. Cut in halves crosswise in fence 
fashion; remove yolk, put through strainer and refill whiti 
Serve on shredded lettuce leaves and garnish with parsley,.. 
Serve with Trenc-h, boiled or mayonnaise 
CHEESE WAFEI18 

Butter wafer crackers and sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese. Put in oven and hake till cheese is melted and crack- 
era are a delicate brown. Arrange on small plate with doily. 
Serve with salad. 

CHEESE 6LT7TEIT BISCVIT CRISPS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Put grated cheese on Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps, place in 
moderate oven until the cheese is melted. Serve while hot. 
Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be spread with cream cheese 
and served with salad. 



M 



FETTITSi 



Fruits are the seed-hearing portions of plants, 
products of this class, such as melons, are sometimes called 
fruits and sometimes vegetables ; and a few vegetable products 
which are not fruits in the strict sense, are included in this 
class of food products because they have a similar place in 
the diet. 

Composition. Fresh fruits contain a high percentage of 
water, varying from about 75 per cent, to over 95 per cent. 
It has been suggested that those containing 80 per cent, or 
more of water be classed as flavor fruits, and those with less 
than 80 per cent, as food fruits : Bananas, grapes and fresh 
figB are the commonest esaraples of the latter class, Wlien 
the water is removed by evaporation, as in drying, the per- 



lUed I 



inner-iBuUtr^J 



FRUITS 377 

centage of moiBture falls to 30 per cent, or less, and the 
proportion of nutrients is correspondingly raised, so that 
dried fruits would fall into the class of food fruits. Pre- 
served fruits have their nutritive value raised by the addition 
of water, and usually by some loss of water in preparation. 

As a class, fruita contain little or no fat. The olive is a 
remarkable exception. 

The proportion of protein is so low as to be practically 
negligible. 

Carbohydrates are the chief nutrient present. In ripe 
fruits these are almost wholly in the form of sugars and other 
soluble carbohydrates, commonly called pectin bodies. In 
unripe fruits starch is often found — notably in the ordinary 
banana. The principal sugars are sucrose or cane sugar, dex- 
trose or grape sugar, and levulose or fruit sugar. A mix- 
ture of the last two is common, and is called invert sugar. 

Fruits contain characteristic organic acids, such as malic 
in apples, citric in lemons, etc. These acids exist in tlie form 
of salts, usually of potassium. A little phosphoric acid, lime, 
iron, etc., also occur. 

The flavor is due partly to the sugars and acids, and partly 
to characteristic ethereal bodies present in small quantities. 
Chemists have isolated the ethers and oils which give the 
peculiar flavor to bananas, strawberries and other fruits. 

Digestibility. Digestibility of fruits varies with the kind 
of fruit eaten and its mode of preparation ; stewed fruits are 
more easily digested than raw fruits. Personal idiosyneracy 
has also much to do with digestibility in case of this class 
of food materials. Oranges^ lemons, grapes and peaches are 
very generally digested with ease. Oranges are much used 
in invalid dietaries, their juice being very effective in allay- 
ing thirst. Orange juice is also commonly administered to 
infants, especially if fed artificially, for the sake of the min- 
eral matter and to prevent constipation. 

It is important to those who are obliged to exclude sugar 
from the dietary to know that fruits containing the least 
sugar are the plum, peach, apricot and raspberry. Those 



278 



VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 



containing the largest amounts are the apple, sweet cherry, " — ' 
grape and pear. 

The apple exerts a most excellent influence upon the liver 
and kidneys, and is valuable in cases of acidity of the stom-, 
ach. 

The juice of the ripe pineapple contains a remarkable i 
tive digestive priaciple, similar to pepsin, termed biomelii 
and BO powerful is its action upon proteids that it will dig« 
as much as one thousand times its weight within a few hoain 
It is especially valuable in diphtheria and diabetes. 

Figa and prunes are valuable for inactivity of the liv< 
and most excellent laxatives. 

The banana contains a large amount of starch, aa much a 
the potato; therefore it should not be eaten in an unripe state." 
Por invalids and children and others of delicate digestion, it 
should always be cooked. 

Grape juice and oilier freshly expressed juices are refresh- 
ing and wholesome beverages, and can often be given to in- 
valids when the pulp would prove irritating. 

Nutritive Valve. Fresh fruits are chiefly valuable for 
their refreshing, appetizing qualities, and for their mineral 
constituents. The organic acids form carbonates in the body, 
and by their alkalinity assist in the regulation of body 
processes. 

In disturbed conditions of metabolism it is often impon 
to know just what salts and acids fruits contain. 

As already stated, the chief nutrients are carbohyd rates. 
In fuel value, fresh fruits resemble given vegetables, as is 
shown by tlie following flgures : 



'tan^fl 
atea. ^^ 



Kind of Fresh Fruit. 



Calories 
Per. 

Apples 290 

Blackberries ETO 

Oranges £40 

Peaches 190 



Kind of Green 
Vegetables. 

Beans, string, fresh 190,1 

Beets, fresh 21S I 

Carrots, fresh 210^ 

Onions, fresh 



FRUITS 279 

The dried fruits compare favorably with bread, dried beans 
and similar foods as to energy value, but the latter contain 
protein in considerable amounts, while in fruits it occurs only 
in small quantities. The fuel value of fruits is often in- 
creased by the sugar added in cooking or serving. 

Fruits are also valuable for bulk, which is an essential 
factor in diet. Most of them contain a considerable propor- 
tion of indigestible matter. Intelligently used, fruits are a 
valuable part of a well-balanced diet, and their use should 
be encouraged. 

Precautions in the Use of Fruit. Over-ripe or unripe fruit 
should not be eaten raw; besides inferior flavor there is dan- 
ger of digestive disturbance. 

Before serving, all fruit should be thoroughly washed to 
avoid germa. Digestive disturbances are more often caused 
by these germs than by the fruit itself. There is danger 
also of acquiring harmful intestinal parasites from raw 
fruits ; in all doubtful cases, the food should be cooked. 

BAKED APPLES 
1 medium apple ^70 Calories, 
Wipe and core apples. Put in a shallow dish with one 
tablespoon water to each apple ; more may be added during 
cooking if necessary, put into the center of each apple two 
teaspoons sugar. Bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty min- 
utes, or until soft; baste with the syrup every ten minutes. 
A little nutmeg may be added to the sugar, and a few drops 
of lemon juice to each apple. Care must be taken that apples 
do not lose their shape and break. 

STEWED APPLE SAUCE, &0 CALORIES 

Wash, pare, core and slice one apple ; put in saucepan and 
add one teaspoon sugar and enough boiling water to partly 
cover. Cover and cook slowly without stirring until trans- 
parent and tender. Appetizing to serve with any breakfast 
food. 

Pears and peaches may be cooked in the same way. 



280 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

APPLES CTTBAN STYXE 

Pare and core sound, tart apples. Steam until almost ten- 
der; remove to a buttered pan; fill cavities with cocoanut, 
stick apples full of blanched almonds, baate with ajrup made 
of sugar, water and lemon juice. Tlnish cooking in a hot 
oven, basting often. When serving, fll] the cavities with 
jelly or the jellied juice. 



APEICOT AKD PSVUE SATTCE, 1TB CALOEIEB i 

1 cup cold water. 



Sugar to taate. 
Wash fruit carefully; soak over night and cook slowly for 
two hours. If cooked properly the fruit will need very little 
sugar, as the sugar in the fruit is developed by this method 
of cooking. 

BAZED BAITAITA 
I medium banana ^64 Calories. 
Baw, this fruit ia often indigestible, but baked it acta as 
a stimulant to the nerves, being at once received and rapidly 
assimilated by tlie stomach. Cut bananas in halves; put in 
shallow pan ; sprinkle with sugar and a little lemon juice and 
bake until soft. 

Note. — The banana contains starch and should be thoi 
oughly ripened before eating. 

CKAKBEEKT BA¥CE OB, JELLY 
1 cup cranberries. ^ cup water. 

Va cup augar. 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put in saucepan and ai 
augar and water, bring to the boiling point and boil fifl 
minutes. Strain and cool. 

For jelly use one-half cup sugar and one-quarter cup water' 
and after straining put into molds. 

BAKED LEHON OB OBAITQE 

Bake a lemon or a sour orange in a moderate oven ft 
twenty minutes. When done, open at one end and take oi 

'Wilhi 



4 

tr 
e 
d 

4 



the inside. Sweeten with sugar or molasses. This is excel- 
lent for hoarseness and jiressure on the lungs. 

OKANGE SUNTLOWEK 

Wash the orange. Put a three-tined fork into the sten 
end. Cut off each end down to pulp, leaving the stem end 
on fork, then pare off rind to pulp, cut out each section and 
place on small plate in suoflower fashion, the pieces of pulp 
for petals; fill centre with granulated sugar. Serve cold. 

Note. — To cut nicely have a large, firm, cold orange and 
a sharp knife. 



Select a large, firm orange; waah, cut and peel skin down 
in eight parts, leaving them connected to stem end of orange 
to form the petals, folding them under the pulp. Separate 
pulp in Beetions and put ice between petals before serving. 

PINEA7FIE, 131 CALOHIES 
1 ilice Hawaiian pineapple, 1 Maraschino cherry. 

Serve pineapple on small tea plate with cherry in center. 
To eat a slice of pineapple after a. meal ia quite in accord- 
ance with physiological indications, as pineapple juice con- 
tains a remarkable digestive principle similar to pepsin. It 
aids the work of digestion in the stomach, also in the intes- 
tinal tract. The Hawaiian Pineapple comes in three forms — 
sliced, crashed and grated. The sliced pineapple ia usually 
served just as it comes from the can; the crushed and grated 
are used like apple sauce and also in delicious made desserts 
and beverages. 

STEWED FBTTNZS 

3 prunes ^ 72 Calories. 

Wash and look over the prunes, cover with clear cold water 

and allow to stand on tlie back of range over night. In the 

morning put the saucepan where they will cook slowly for 

four hours. 



I 



383 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Note. — No sugar ia needed as prunes are 18 per cent, sugsr, ' 
and by this manner of cooking are made TCry sweet. This 
Bimmering process renders them rich and ]uicy, while boiling 
toughens the skin. A little lemon juice is a pleasant addi- 
tion. 

Pmnee are a valuable nutrient, and their use as a laxative 
is scarcely second to figs. 



STEAUES BH1TBASB, 231 CALORIES • V 

1 cup rhubarb (4 oz.). >4 to >4 '^"P sugar. I 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces without re-" 
moving the skin, as this gives a pretty pink color to the juice. 
Put it into an agate double boiler without water and steam 
one-half hour, or until soft. Do not stir, as it breaks the 
pieces SwLeten to taste at once on tuklng from fire. If 
rhubarb look's a minute too long — ■ which means after it has 
gone to pieces — it will lose its delicious flavor. 

Bhubaib is rich in oxalic acid, which does much to toi 
the '^^stem 



aTEWES FIGS, 93S CALOBIES 

% pound flgs. 1 eup cold water. 

yi cup white Bugar. Juice y^ lemon. 

Wash figs. Dissolve sugar in the water; add figs and bring 
slowly to boiling point. Stew two and one-half hours ; when 
tender, add lemon juice. 

Note. — Cut figs in small pieces; cook very slowly so 
not to add more water. 



ng^^ 



DAT£ BOB BOBS 



Put salted almonds, or fourtlia of English walnuts into t 
inside of dates that liave been cut open and stones removal 
Roll in powdered or granulated sugar and serve. 

■OalcnlBted with hi cap >nf^i: with 'A cup ■UE»' = 444 nloriil. 



NUTS 
HTTTS' 

Nuta enter but little into the invalid's dietary, but aa more 1 
attention is being paid to meana of rendering them di- 
gestible, a word concerning them is not out of place. 

Composition. The edible substance of nuts is concentrated 
food, containing little water, and with few exceptions, much 
fat. In general, nuts are also rich in protein. The average 
composition ia aa follows; 

Water 1-4% 

Protein 6-15% 

FaU 40-50% 

Carbohydrates 6-10% 

The only common nut containing much carbohydrate is the 
chestnut, which contains TS per cent. The pignolia, peanut, 
butternut, almond, beechnut and pistachio contain over 30 
per cent, of protein. The pecan, brazil nut, butternut, filbert, 
hickory nut and walnut contain over 60 per cent, of fat. 

The ash content ia comparatively high. Walnuts, almond, 
etc., are rich in phosphoric acid. 

Cooking of Nuts. Nuta are more often eaten raw than 
cooked. But the peanut is not considered palatable when raw, 
and the chestnut is very indigestible unless the starch is 
cooked, when it becomes very easily digestible. Almonds are 
widely used in confectionery. 

Xuts may be used as staple articles of diet, in salad, soupa, 
desserts, etc. 

To insure the best utilization of nuta they must be thor- 
oughly prepared for digestion by grinding or mastication. 
Nut butters offer much less resistance to digestion than raw 
nuta hastily eaten. On account of the high fat content, 
these products must be fresh, or the fat is likely to decompose 
(become rancid) and be irritating. 

Nut flours and meals are made into bread or porridge. 
Almond meal (containing no starch and very little sugar) 
ia often utilized as a bread for diabetica. The chestnut can- 

' For (nrther informHion, doIb ■' Not* and Their tr«ei >■ Food." Furroer'i 
BnUctIn No. B32, U. B. Depl. at AriiBDlnin, Waibiugton. D. O. 



284 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

not be BO used, on account of its high content of starch. The 
peanut contains about 11 per cent, of carbohydrates, and 
hence is undesirable for this purpose. 

Digestibility. Nuts have been considered very indigestible. 
This is due largely to improper mastication or other prepara- 
tion for digestion; to the fact that they are a very concen- 
trated food, and are often eaten when not needed. While 
nut protein, as nuts are ordinarily eat«n, is not so easily nor 
completely digested as meat protein, there are experiments 
showing that on the whole, they are as thoroughly 
as an ordinary mixed diet- No experiments have been 
ported on the ease or rapidity of nut digestion. 

Nutritive Value. Nuts are a concentrated food. This is 
clearly shown by the following 6gures: 



1 lb. of Almonds ^ield 2305 Caloric. 

1 lb. of Brazil nuts yield 3120 Calories. 

1 lb. of Filberts yield 3100 Calories. 

1 lb. of Hickory yield 3345 Calories. 

1 lb. of Peanuts yield 2610 Calories. 

1 lb. of Walnuts yield 3075 Caloriea. 



I 



The high fuel value is due to the absence of water and the 
large amount of fat present. Nuts can be most advan- 
tageously used along with bulky foods, such as fruits and 
vegetables, and those lacking in fat, such as bread. In a 
vegetarian diet they become a valuable source of protein. 

FUHGI AND ALGiE 

These substances have little nutritive value. They may be 
considered as food adjuncts, rather than foods proper. 

Of fungi, iriuBhrooms are the most commonly eaten. They 
are prized for th^ir delicate flavor. Chemical analysis shows 
a high percentage of nitrogen, but although reported as pro- 
tein, it is largely in an indigestible form, 

Algte and lichens are much used as food in some parts of 
the world and high claims are sometimes made for their 
natritive value, but digestion experiments show that, although 



i 



FUNOI AND AL02E 285 

they have a similar carbohydrate content to other succulent 
vegetable foods, these carbohydrates are not attacked by the 
ordinary digestive enzymes of the alimentary tract. 

The most important alga, from the dietetic standpoint, is 
Irish moss. It is commonly used in making jellies or sooth- 
ing beverages for invalids, but it has no nutritive value 
whatsoever. 

The lichen most used as food is Iceland moss. It has 
frequently been recommended as a food for diebetics, but it 
is practically indigestible. 



CHAPTER XI 

NTJTMTIOTIS DESSEBTS 

EOT Am) COLD SESSEETS — FBOZEK SESSEETS 

SOFT CUSTAEDS, BAKED CTJSTAKDS, WHIPS AND S0UPFLE8. 
JTTIfEET, GOEKSTAEGH fUSDISBS OE BLANC UANGE, BICE, 
TAPIOCA. CEACKEE AND BEEAD PUSDINaS, SAUCES 

Properly prepared, the dessert may constitute a very large 
part of tbe nutriment represented in a meal. Dishea con- 
taining egga, milt, cream, starchea, etc., in large proportion 
are necesaarily of high nutritive value, and become a usefnl 
means of administering these foods to patients who do not 
care for the flavor of plain milk, raw eggs, cereals, etc., or 
who are likely to become tired of them. For invalids, com- 
binations of foods should always be simple, because the more 
complex the mixture of protein, fat and carbohydrate, the 
longer and more complicated is the process of digestion. 
Hence junket, which is simply flavored, coagulated milk, is 
one of tbe most digestible of desserts. As a rule, leas sugar 
is relished in sickness than in health; an excess is apt to 
cause nausea. 

Dainty service is most important. Baked custards and 
junkets are usually best served in the original individual 
molds to avoid danger of breaking, or in case of junket, of 
becoming watery. Sauces should never he poured over pud- 
dings till the moment of serving. Care must be taken to 
see that cold desserts are thoroughly chilled ; a lukewarm 
custard is frequently nauseating and always unappetizing. 




SOFT CUSTARDS 287 



SOFT CTJSTABDS 



SOFT CUSTARD NO. I, 192 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. ^ cup milk. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Beat yolk, add salt and sugar 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Pour back into 
top of double boiler and stir constantly until it looks creamy 
or it coats the spoon and the foam has disappeared; then re- 
move immediately from hot water. Cool and add flavoring 
desired; vanilla, orange or lemon extract. 

Note. — If custard curdles, place saucepan over cold water 
and beat until smooth. 

This custard is usually used for pudding sauces. 

SOFT CUSTARD NO. II, 410 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 

1 cup milk. Yg saltspoon salt. 

2 eggs. ^ teaspoon vanilla or grating of 
2 tablespoons sugar. nutmeg. 

Eeserve one egg white for meringue. Blend according to 
Soft Custard No. I. This custard is usually used as a 
foundation for nuddiners. 



foundation for puddings 



CUSTARD SUITABLE FOR A DIABETIC, 230 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 egg. Speck salt. 

Sweetina to taste. 1 cup milk. 

Scald the milk and add the liquid Sweetina to taste ; pour 
on to the well-beaten eggs. Cook and flavor as in preceding 
rule for soft custard or bake according to Cup Custard. 

HERINOUE, 110 CALORIES 1 

1 egg white. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Speck salt. Lemon or orange juice. 

Beat the egg until stifif and dry; add the salt, sugar and 
lemon juice to taste. Beat very little after adding the sugar. 

^Without lemon and orange jnlce. 



NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 




r? nut ' 



PLOATinO ISLAND, 606 CAIOEIES 

Chill Soft Custard Xo. II ; pour into eerving dish and pnt 
meringue on top. 

OAANOE CTTSTABD 
Peel, slice and remove seeds of oranges, pat into serving 
dish. Chill Soft Custard No, II, pour over fruit and put 
meringue on top. 

BANANA CnSTABD 
Peel bananas and slice very thin with silver knife; pat 
into serving dish and flavor with lemon juice. Chill Soft 
Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 
AUIOND PTTDDINO 
Line a glass dish with slices of stale cake and put in some 
salted almonds. Pour a little sherry wine on the cake. Chill 
Soft Custard No. II and pour over. Put meringue on top, 
with some salted almonds in it. 

PEACH CUSTARD 
Put into serving dish alternate layers of stale cake and 
glices of fresh or canned peaches. Chill Soft Custard No, II, 
pour OTer fruit and put meringue on top. 
APPLE CTTSTARD 
Cool haked apples and put in serving dish. Heap meringue 
on top and hrown slightly in the oven. Serve with Soft 
Cujtard No. I. 

BAKED CirSTAHDS 

BAKED OR CITP CXTSTARD, 319 CALOBIES 

(Individual Eule.) 

1 cup milk. IVj tablespoon sugar. 

1 egg. V-j BaltspoDn salt. 

Flavoring to taste — nutmeg, rinnamon, vanilla, or letniHi ext] 

Scald the milk; beat egg, add sugar and salt and pour on 

gradually the scalded milk. Flavor to taste and pour into 

custard cups; place in deep pan and pour boiling water 



I 



BAKED CUSTARDS 389 

around until it almost reaches the top of cups. Bake in 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. If cinnamon is used 
for flavor, put one-half square inch into the milk when scald- 
ing. 

Xote. — To test when done, dip a pointed knife into water 
and plunge into the middle of the custard. If it looks set 
and the knife comes out clear, the custard is done; if milky, 
it is not cooked enough. If cooked too long the custard will 
curdle. 

BAKED CUSTABD NO. II, 2S3 CALOKIES 
(Individual Kule.) 
% cup milk. Vs Bultapoon salt. 

1 t^g. Nutmeg. 

I'/s tablespoon sugar. '^ teanpoon vanilla. 

Blend according to Baked Custard No. I. 
The smaller quantity of milk makes a little firmer custard. 
WSIIE CTTSTASS, 163 CALORIES 
I egg white. '/t Raltspoon aalL 

1 tablespoon sugar. '/a cup rich milk. 

Beat white of egg until very light; add sugar and salt 
and pour on gradually the milk. Flavor with vanilla, orange 
or lemon extract. Bake in cups set in pan of boiling water 
in a moderate oven about twenty nainutes. When firm set 
on ice and serve cold. This may he taken by patient when the 
yolk of egg is proliibited. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD, 250 CALORIES 

(Individual Kule.) I 

2 teaspocMiB Walter Baker's choc- 2 egg yolka. 
olate. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

2 tablesposns milk. Speck salt. 

6 tablespoons rich milk. 

Grate chocolate and mix with the two tablespoons milk; 
stir over the fire until smooth, add the rich milk, the well- 
beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard cups set 
in pan of hot water (nearly to the top). Cook until custard 
is set Serve hot or cold. 



L 




290 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — The chocolate and yolk of egg contain a large 
amount of fat. Do not serve to a patient who cannot dig^ 

it. 

HALTED MILK CUSTARD, 107 CALOKISS 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted ^ cup hot water. 

Milk. Salt. 

1 egg yolk. 

Mix the Malted Milk powder with enough of the hot 
water to make a smooth paste, add remainder of water and 
pour it gradually on to the well-beaten yolk. Butter custard 
cup, pour in the mixture and let it stand in a pan of boil- 
ing water in a moderate oven until custard is set. 

BAKED CARAMEL CUSTARD, 293 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg, A few drops of vanilla. 
Speck salt. 

Scald the milk. Put the sugar in a small saucepan^ place 
over heat and stir constantly until the sugar is melted and 
a light brown color. Add milk and pour over the slightly- 
beaten egg. Add flavoring. Strain into buttered custard 
cups, place in a pan of hot water and bake until firm in a 
slow oven. 

PEPTONOIDS CUSTARD, 452 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons of Dry Peptonoids Yolks of 2 eggs. 
Soluble. 2 teaspoons of sugar. 

2 tablespoons of milk. A pinch of salt. 

6 tablespoons of thin cream. 

Dissolve Dry Peptonoids Soluble in the milk. Add the 
well-beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard 
cups, set in pan of hot water, cook until set. 

WHIPS AND SOTTITLES 

Dainty and nutritious ways to serve the uncooked and 
riightly cooked white of eggs. 



WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 291 

FRUIT WHIP, ISS-ISO CALORIES 

(Two ServingB.) 
Any fruit, freeh, canned or dried (properly prepared), or 
jellies may be used. 
2 to 4 tablespoons fruit pulp. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

White I egg. (or to taste). 

Lemon juke. 

Prepare the fruit pulp by scraping, grating or rubbing 
througli a strainer. Beat the white of egg on platter until 
stiff. Add pulp, sugar and lemon juice to taste, and beat 
until very stiif. Heap in center of serving dish and pour 
Soft Custard No. I around it. 

Note. — The apple is a favorite fruit for these whips. 
The juice of fresh fruits in season used with tlie raw white 
of egg makes an appetizing as well as a very nutritious lunch 
for the sick. 

STEAWBERRT WHIP, 327 CALORIES 

(Four ServingH.) 
1 clip freah atra wherries. % cup powdered augar. 

Whites 2 eggB. 

Wash and hull the strawberries and mash slightly. Beat 
whites of eggs until stiff, add sugar and berrtes; beat until 
very stiff, using a broad bowl and a wire egg-beater, beating 
with a long, steady stroke. Pile lightly in a glass dish and 
serve with white or sponge cake. 

GRAPE WHIP, IMS CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% cup Welch's grape juice, 5 tablespoons sugar. 

White 1 egg. 1 cup double creant. 

Beat the white of egg until foamy, add the grape juice 
mised with the sugar and, lastly, the cream, then beat with 
a whip churn. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on 
a sieve. Pour the unwhipped mixture into small, high glasses 
and pile the whip on top. Serve cold. 



1 




•).• 



":t-^ ^ z wt c 



Rnr 



*^^"*- 






, • . ■ • . ' 






:ieT rr 




d"-- r^i;r^ -: SZXLE.. UTTir 



.. .♦^' 



C-:"'-i:-J»&- 



£■ anei 



yt'trvi^i wrr??: 






1- : .-en*c 



j: 






-O ^ - 






^.'/J.' '..«.■ -'■/ 



V. . 



• - .' 



,„ "T- 



::.•: v-r--:.'ri::'E!i_ vqiH. aac snfiET 



t,'i', '//^ /■ ..'- ." .'. -■: .'..-• .:.r V- .-:»rrti-aL 'Wiiitt. Z 



• ■* * 



- 1 . -' 



,' , . -• ■ ■- - 



..->.": ■;.:■ < i»: .:t.i*- ii:.«'.^ir: izreer 






< t 



U',:VJi.\)Jcl. Kv^t. 



:; '-v;, vui?&r. 



'ii.oi'/'j;//:'y */*fer v/^i^. t'i': t'.gar; fc-o-Brlv. bearing cotD- 
iti«/;ij/; fc'J'i Uuti'fit yilrA:. J-'/.'i -u the white beaten until 
tity. \*'tui \hy*t J/'iM>-fwj ^:u»tta;'J cuj/^. ivj-t in pan of hot 
wMhi ii/j'i l/Jl^'; Iwi'/ily miunu-n or ufjtiJ firm, testing by 
ji*g will* iUn/t'i. H<'rv<r j/Itti/* or with fV^amy Sauce. 



FEACH KEBIHGTJE, 210 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup yellow peaches. Bread cruinba. 

Sugar to taste. White 1 egg. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 tsbleapoon powdered BUgtJ. 

Stew peaches in a very little water, sweeten to taste and 
fltir in the well-beaten yolk. Butter a pudding dish and 
cover bottom with fine bread erumbs, put in the peaches and 
bake fifteen minutes. Cover with meringue made of white 
of egg and the powdered sugar; brown slightly in the oven. 
Serve cold. 

JUNKET 

Junket is a healthful and dainty dessert made simply of 
pure milk, and containing enough of the active principle 
of rennet found in the Junket Tablet to coagulate the milk. 
It is nutritious and has the added advantage of being easily 



lilk or cream that has been boiled, sterilized, condensed 
or evaporated cannot be used in making junket, and care 
must be taken not to heat the milk more than lukewarm, aa 
hot milk spoils the action of the tablet. 

For diabetic patients Sweetina may be used as a substitute 
for sugar in these recipes. 

PLAIN riTKSET. 290 CALOKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. ^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 tablespooiiB sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
Vi teaspoon brandy or wine. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add sugar and flavoring; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Pour mixture immediately into sherbet cups or cham- 
pagne glasses, partly fill. Stand in warm room undisturbed 
until firm like Jelly, then put on ice to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream heaped on top, with one-half teaspoon bright 
jelly for garnish. 

1 Without brend snimbs and ingsr. 



294 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — For variety, whole strawberries or raspberries may 
be served with junket, or chopped English walnuts with the 
whipped cream. For garnish, candied cherries may be used. 

If desired, the brandy and sugar may be omitted in making 
junket and served plain, with sugar and a grating of nutmeg. 

CTTSTABD JTTNKET, 512 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

Yg cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. l^ teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons sugar. V^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 
% cup lukewarm milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

Beat the egg, add two tablespoons sugar; pour on grad- 
ually the hot milk. Cook in top of double boiler; stir con- 
stantly until it tliickens ; take at once from the fire and cool. 
Mix two tablespoons sugar with the lukewarm milk, add to 
the cooled custard and blend thoroughly. When lukewarm 
add vanilla and the tablet dissolved in cold water; finish as 
for Plain Junket. 

COCOA JITNKET, 280 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon cocoa. y^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
2 tablespoons boiling water. 3 drops vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix the cocoa, sugar, boiling water, and cook over heat 
and rub to a smooth paste; add gradually the fresh cool 
milk. Heat until lukewarm (not more), add vanilla and 
then tablet dissolved in the cold water. Finish as for Plain 
Junket and serve with sweetened cream or a Soft Custard. 

COFFEE JimCET, 269 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tubleiipoons boiled coffee. % Hansen's Junket Tablet 

1 «caDi cup milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

2 tmblespocmji iiugar. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the coffee and sugar; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the odd 
water. Finish as for Plain Junket. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING OR BLANC MANGE 293^ 

COKNSTABCH PUDDINQ OE BLANC UAKQE I 

Starch of various kinds is user! in milk puddings. For 
children, invalids and dyspeptics such puddings are admirable. 
They must be thoroughly' cooked, that the action of the heat 
may affect the starch. The combination of starch and milk 
gives a wholesome nutritive food, and the addition of eggs 
increaaea the food value. 

COBHSTAHCH PUDDING, 329 CAIOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
I cup milk. Speck salt. 

V/i tablespoons cotHBtarcb. White 1 egg. 

ly, tableBpoonB sugar. Vanilla. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar 
and salt thoroughly ; add slowly the scalded milk, stirring 
constantly. Return to top of boiler and cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly for the first five or six minutes, then 
occasionally. Remove from fire and while very hot fold in 
lightly, but thoroughly, the well-beaten white of egg. When 
partially cooled add flavoring to taste; put into wet cups 
or molds, cool and then stand for several hours on ice. Re- 
move from molds. Serve with a soft custard, mashed fresh 
berries, or whipped cream. Vary the pudding by adding & 
little Walter Baker's chocolate, melted. 

PINEAPPLE CHEAU, 340 CALDKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
I eup milk. Speck salt. 

IVi tableepoons cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

1^ tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespooiia grated pineapple. 

Follow directions for Cornstarch Pudding, adding the 
pineapple instead of vanilla. Pour into individual molds 
and serve cold with cream. 

COAITBTABCH FBTHT JELLY, 166 CALORIES > 

(Two Servings.) 
1 cup raspberry juice. 2 tableapoouB cornstarch. 

Sugar. 
'Witliuut lugar. 



296 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Sweeten the juice to taste and heat to boiling point. Make 
a smooth paste of the cornstarch and a little cold water^ add 
slowly to the juice and cook thirty minutes in top of double 
boiler, stirring constantly at first. Pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold with whipped cream and fresh, whole berries. 

XALTED XILK BLANC MANGE, 280 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted Speck salt. 

Milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons powdered arrow- 1% cups boiling water, 
root. l^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix the arrowroot and Malted Milk powder with a little 
cold water into a smooth paste. Add the boiling water slowly, 
cook in double boiler about twenty minutes, or until arrow- 
root is thoroughly cooked, add vanilla and pour into cold, 
wet molds. Chill and serve with Soft Custard or whipped 
cream. 

Note. — One teaspoon powdered coffee may be added to 
above before cooking, for Coffee Blanc Mange. 

NTTTBITIOTTS WHEAT PTTDDINO, 252 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. White 1 egg. 

2% tablespoons flour. ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Blend flour with a little of the cold milk. Scald remainder 
of milk and add flour mixture; cook thoroughly; add salt 
and flavoring and fold in the white of egg beaten slightly. 
Put into cold, wet mold, cool and set in ice box to harden. 
Serve with Soft Custard or whipped cream, or sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and pour over it one-fourth cup of fresh 
fruit juice or crushed fruit. 

QLUTEN PTTDDING (FOB THE DIABETIC), 861 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

3 tablespoons Gum Gluten Flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 pint hot milk. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk. Cinnamon. 

1 egg. Sweetina. 



RICE PUDDINGS 297 

Blend Gum Gluten Flour with a little of the cold milk, 
add gradually to one pint hot milk. Cook thoroughly. Beat 
^g, add cold milk, the cooked mixture and salt, cinnamon 
and Sweetina to taste. Bake thirty minutes. A little fruit 
improves the flavor. Serve with whipped cream. 

IBISH MOSS JELLY, 677 GALORIEB 

(Three Servings.) 
V, cup Irish moHs. Juice 1 lemon or orange, 

2 cups hoiling water. ^ cup augor. 

4 figs. 

Soak, "pick over and wash the moss. Pat it into the boil- 
ing water, add the figs cut into strips and simmer about 
twenty minutes, or until it is very thick when dropped on 
a cold plate. Add lemon juice and sugar. Strain into a 
cold, wet mold. 

lEIBH KOSS BLAKC HANaE, S96 CALOEIES 
(Four Servings.) 
^ cup Iria)] mosa. % saltHpoon salt. 

114 cupfl I'Old wuter. i/a teaspoon vanilia. 

1% cups milk. 

Soak the moss in cold water about fifteen minuteB. Re- 
move from water, pick over and put into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook about twenty minutes, or until it thickens 
when dropped on a cold piate. Add salt, strain and fiavor. 
Strain again and turn into small cold, wet molds. Chill and 
aerve with cream and sugar or sliced fruit. 

RIC£ FTTTDHrGS 
BOILED BICE, 100 CALORIES 
{Individual Rule.) 
2 tablespoons riee. '/a teaspoon salt. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Wash rice thoroughly and add gradually to the boiling 
salted water, care being taken tiiat the water does not stop 
boiling. Boil uncovered twenty minutes, or until grains 



298 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

are soft. Turn into a strainer and pour over it one cup of 
hot water and drain, put in oven a few moments to dry, with 
oven door open. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream or 
as a pudding with cooked dates and whipped cream, or plain 
with Soft Custard. 

Note. — Keep rice well covered with water while cooking. 

Dates. — Cut in small pieces, add a little water to partly 
cover and cook until soft. Simmer and do not stir. 

STEADIED RICE, 265 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V3 cup rice. Yg teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pick over the rice, wash in three or four waters; put it 
with the boiling water and salt in upper part of double 
boiler. Do not stir while cooking. Steam one hour, or until 
the grains are tender. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream 
or as a pudding with Soft Custard, or with sugar and cream. 

Note. — A few dates cut in narrow strips may be added 
just before serving if desired. Part milk may be used in 
the cooking. 

PEACHES AND RICE 

Serve boiled or steamed rice with sections of fresh, juicy 
peaches, or with fresh berries. Serve with sugar and creain. 

SOUTHERN SNOWBALLS, 367 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup rice. y^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Pick over rice, wash in several waters and put with milk 
and salt in top of double boiler. Cook until the milk is ab- 
sorbed and rice is tender. Do not stir while cooking. Dip 
egg cups in cold water and pack with rice carefully but 
tightly, turn out on serving dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, put a candied cherry or a strawberry on top, and serve 
with whipped cream. 



nWE PUDDINGS : 399 

PLAIN EICE FITDDIIIQ, 748 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
I oup steamed rice. 2 tablespoons augar. 

1 cup sntlded milk. Va ssltapoon salt. 

^ tahlespoon butter. Vi "^"P atoned raiHins. 

1 egg. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat egg, add sugar and salt 
and pour on slowly the scalding milk. Put in pudding dish 
with rice and raiains. Bake in a moderate oven until custard 
is set. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in case of bowel trouble. 

BICE UEEIKOUE, 526 CAIOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 
14 cup cold cooked rice. Egg yolk. 

1 cup Bcalded mitk. Vanilla. 

2'/j tabiespoona sugar. 1 egg white. 

'/^ saltspoun salt. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Blend rice and milk and soak until soft. Beat the yolk, 
add sugar and salt and gradually the hot milk and rice. 
Cook until it thickens like soft custard. Add flavoring to 
taste and pour into pudding dish or custard cups. Make a' 
meringue of the white of egg and powdered sugar, cover the 
pudding and brown slightly in the oven. 

CBEAM OF BICE PUDSIITa, 657 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 
Vi cup rice (well washed), 1 saltspoon salt. 

2 tabiespoona sugar. 1 pint mitk. 

Mix all ingredients in a small baking dish. Bake two 
hours, slowly at first until rice is softened and thickened in 
the milk. Cut the crust several times, stirring to the bottom 
gently. The crust will then dissolve in the pudding, giving 
it a creamy color. Then let it brown slightly. 



NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 
TAPIOCA PTTDDINGS 



TAPIOCA CBEAM, 483 CAIOEIEB 

(Two Servings.) 
1'/^ tablespooDB Minut« tapioca. 1 cup ecalded milk. 
3 tablespoona sugar. 1 egg. 

14 saltBpoon salt. Flavoring. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix tapioca, sugar and aalt; 
add siowly to the scalding milk, return to double boiler and 
cook fifteen minutes. Add the yolk and white of the egg, 
beaten separately. Eeinove from fire and add flavoring de- 
sired. Serve plain or with any fresh fruit in Beason. ^ 
PLAIN TAPIOCA, 451 CALOItlES 
(Three Servings.) 
1*4 tabieapooilB Minute tapiooa. 1 cup scalded milk. 
2 tablespoons sugar. % cup raisins. 
Salt. Xutmeg. 

Scald milk in double boiler and gradually add the tapioca 
and sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Add salt, nutmeg to taste 
and seeded raisins. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Note. — Raisins should never be used in bowel trouble, 
PISEAPPLE TAPIOCA, TIS CALOBIZS 
(Three Servings.) 
Vi cup Minute tapioca. 1% cups boiling water. 

^ cup sugar. I cup canned grated pineappl 

Speck salt. 

Mis tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boilii __ 
water and cook in double boiler until clear, about fifteen min- 
utes. Pour over the grated pineapple and decorate the top 
of the pudding with currant jelly. 

APPLE TAPIOCA, 346 CALORIXS 1 
(Three Servings.) 
^ cup Hinute tapiaca. 1 pint boiling wat«r. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 3 tart apples. 

Speck salt. Sugar, nutmeg. 

iWithont eitTii miu. 



I 



TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 301 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water, and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Pour this 
onto the apples, which have been pared and cored and tha 
holes filled with sugar and a little nutmeg. Cover the diah 
and bake one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar, 

BASFBEERT TAPIOCA, SIS CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.} 
1^2 tablespoons Minute tapioca. '/^ cup raspberry juice, 
ly, tablespoons sugar. Juice '^ lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. Speck Eolt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler lifteen minutes. Add rasp- 
berry and lemon juice. Wlien it begins to jelly, beat smooth 
with a spooQ. Serve plain or with whipped cream, 

DATE TAPIOCA, 660 CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.) 
ly, tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup Hcalded milk. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 1 egg. 

Yj BultspooQ salt. 14 cup chopped dates. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; add gradually the hot milk 
and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add the beaten 
egg yolk and cook three minutes longer. Stir in the dates. 
Make a meringue of the white of egg, heap it on top and 
brown delicately in the- oven. 

CHOCOLATE OE COCOA BLAITC KAKQE, 827 CALORIES 1 

(Three Sen-ings.) 
^. cup Minute tapioca. 1% cups hot chocolate or cocoa. 

% cup sugar. ■^ teaspoon vanilla. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 

Mis tapioca, sugar and salt; pour on gradaatly the hot 
cocoa and cook in double boiler about twenty minutes. He- 
move from heat, add vanilla and pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold, plain or with whipped cream or Soft Custard. 

■CBlculaled with rhocolole. recipe pege 135. 



I 



302 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



BREAD PTTDDINOS 

The principle of employing farinaceous matter which has 
already been subjected to heat (so that a considerable con- 
version of starch has gone on before the human salivary 
diastase comes into play) is carried out in practice in the 
form of bread puddings. 

PLAIN BREAD PUDDING, 900 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread. 2 tablespoons sugar (to taste). 

1 cup milk. y2 saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. ^4 ^^P seeded raisins. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg and add sugar 
and salt; pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cut the 
bread into one-half inch cubes and add with the raisins. 
Pour into well-buttered pudding dish, put bits of butter on 
top and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 
Serve with Hard Sauce or cream and sugar. 

Note. — Do not serve raisins in bowel trouble. 

ORANGE BREAD PTTDDINO, 710 CALORIES i 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread. 2 oranges. 

% cup milk. Sugar to taste. 

2 eggs. 

Soak bread in the milk until soft and beat lightly with 
fork; add the grated rind of one orange and the juice of 
both; sweeten. Beat the whites very light and add to above 
mixture. Pour into custard cups and cook as for baked cus- 
tard — about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve plain or with 
Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Omit orange rind if it will interfere medicinaUy. 

^Without sugar. 



BREAD PUDDINGS 303 

LEMON BREAD PUDDING, 543 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

V2 cup niilk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

Yg cup soft bread crumbs. % tablespoon butter. 

Yolk 1 egg. Grated rind ^ lemon. 

Speck salt. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg yolk, add sugar 
and salt and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Add the 
bread crumbs and grated lemon rind; pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes, or until set like baked custard. 

Make a meringue by beating the white of egg very stiff, 
adding two tablespoons powdered sugar and juice of one- 
fourth lemon. Cover the pudding with it and set in the 
oven till a dainty brown. 

Xote. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere medici- 
nally. For the crumbs, rub soft bread through a coarse 
strainer. 

JELLY BREAD PUDDING 

Prepare the same as for Lemon Bread Pudding, omitting 
the lemon rind and juice. Spread any tart jelly over pudding 
when baked and add meringue. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING, 904 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

^ cup stale bread crumbs. 2% tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

y^ ounce (or square) Walter Speck salt. 

Baker's unsweetened chocolate. ^^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Melt chocolate over hot water 
and add to it the sugar and salt. To the chocolate mixture, 
add the soaked crumbs, the beaten egg and vanilla. Put into 
buttered custard cups and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, or until custard is set. Serve hot, plain or 
with Hard Sauce. 



3W yUTRITIOrS DESSERTS 



fiHKiaK FUABUW (!<•& THE. WriMlTfC), 140O CATdOHTTO 



1 Clip millL I tablfl^ocn bolter. 

% cap cbccse. Sedt. 

1 cup GmiL Gluten bzod cnmib& Cajone. 

Dnr the bread, roll and soak a short time in the milk. 
Beat the ^gs lightlj. add the milk and eramfae, grated cheese, 
salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Beat well, poor into but- 
tered pan and bake in a hot OTen half an hour. Serve im- 
mediate! j, as dve minutei?* delaj will spoiL 



FLUTES BmOWV XETTT (lOm TEE UAXBHC), ttt CAXOXIESi 

3 Gum Glntoi Biseait Cnspsw Sugar. 

1 liurge sour apple. Cinnamon. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered indiridual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp: onto this put one^ialf apple cooked 
as for apple sauce or raw cut in thin slices or chopped; 
season with sugar, speck of cinnamon and bits of butter. 
Add another layer of crumbs (one Biscuit Crisp), then the 
remaining half of apple and seasoning, lastly cmmbe. Place 
bits of butter on top. put in slow oven, and bake. 

CBACKER PTTSDnrOS 

CRACTER PTTDDniO, 397 CAL0KIS8 

(Two Servings.) 

V/g soda cradcen. Tolk 1 eg^. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Boll the crackers and soak in the milk. Beat yolks and 
sugar well together and add to pudding with salt. Bake 
one-half hour. Make a meringue with the whites of the 
eggs, pile lightly on top and put in oven till golden brown* 
Serve hot. 

■Witlunit migsr. 



PUDDING SAUCES 305 

SnOLISH WALNUTS AJSTD BISCUIT GSISFS (FOIt THE DIA- 
BETIC), 194 CALORIES 

1 Individual Rule.) 
2 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. 4 walnut halves. 

2 hot tablespoons thin cream. Parsley. 
% teaspoon butter. 

Butter Biscuit Crisps and place in oven until well heated 
through. Dip the nuta in melted butter and cook, turning 
often until heated. Cover each Crisp with one tablespoon of 
hot cream and serve two nuts on each Crisp; garnish with 
sprig of parsley. 

Note. — Buttered Biscuit Crisps may be served heated and 
served with ground nut meats over top. 

PUDDING SADCES 
HAED SAUCE, 6S0 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

3 tablespoons butter. y^ white of egg'. 

6 tablespooDB powdered sugar. % tablespoon cream. 
Nutmeg. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually. When light and 
creamy add the unbeaten white of egg and the cream, a drop 
or two at a time. Season highly. Heap on serving dish and 
cool. 

FOAKT SADCE, S63 CALORIEB 
(Three Serringa.) 
y, cup butter. '/a e^. 

Vs cup powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon wine. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, the well-beaten egg 
and the wine. Heat over hot water, beating constantly. 
Serve immediately. 

TO WHIP CREAK 

Vj cup thick cream (40%) =432 Calories. 

Do not have cream too thick; season with sugar and any 

flavoring desired; put in bowl and set bowl in another utensil 

containing a little cold water and ice. Beat cream with Dover 



306 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

egg-beater until stiff enough to keep its form. Set on ice to 
keep cold. 

Note. — Do not beat too long or it may turn to butter. To 
one-half cup thick cream add three tablespoons milk. 
WHIPFED CEEAH NO. H. 
1 egg white ^10 to 15 Calories. 
Follow the above recipe, and add the white of one ^g, 
beaten stiff, folding it into the stiffly-beaten cream. Z^^ 

F&iriT S&nCE, 75 CALOEIES ^^j 

(Two Servings.) iTt 

8 tableapoonB fruit juice. H teaspoon arrowroot or corn- 

Blend starch with a little cold water and pour into the 
hot fruit juice. Boil two or three minutes. Sweeten if de- 
sired. 

OAAHaE SATTCE 
See chapter " Gelatin " for recipe. Page 310. ^^H 



ICE CEEAM — BHEABET — ICES 

I dishes not only conatitute an acceptable form of 
serving nutriment, but often are a means of furnishing addi- 
tional liquid and relieving thirst. Ices and sherbets made 
with fruits and water, liave a dietetic value similar to acid 
beverages. Frozen cream, milk, junkets, custards, etc., have 
the same nutritive value as the same foods served without 
freezing. 

In giving all very cold dishes, care must be taken not to 
interfere with the digestion of other foods. Chilling the 
mouth hinders the formation and activity of saliva; cbUling 
the stomach retards gastric digestion. The latter effect can 
be avoided by eating ice-cold food very slowly, so that it is 
partially warmed before reaching the stomach. Frozen foods 
should not be given when ptyalin digestion is especially im- 
portant. 



ICE CREAM 307 

General Rules for Freezing. Ice (or snow) and salt are 
required for the procesB of freezing. The salt melts the ice, 
and in melting absorbs heat from the mixture, thus causing it 
to freeze. The finer the ice, the more quickly the freezing 
will be accomplished. In packing a freezer allow three level 
measures of ice to one of salt. This proportion is found best 
for fine-grained mixture. The can should not be filled more 
than three-fourths full, as the liquid expands in freezing, and 
if over-crowded, the croam will become coarse-grained and the 
cover may be pushed up allowing the salt water to get In. 

Freezing in Small Amounts. Put mixture to be frozen 
into a water-tight baking powder can, or a small tin pail with 
cover, and stand in large pail or howl. Pack the ice and salt 
alternately under and around it (ice pounded fine), using 
one part salt to three parts ice. Remove cover, and beat 
mixture with Dover egg-beater until foamy, replace cover and 
turn can, or pail, back and forth ; remove cover occasionally 
and scrape the frozen mixture from side of can, and beat 
thoroughly with fork. The mixture will freeze in twenty 
minutes. When frozen, place a narrow strip of cloth, dipped 
in melted beef fat or lard, around the outside of cover to keep 
out the salt water, Bepack in ice, or ice and salt, and cover 
well until wanted. 

Serve frozen dishes in sherbet, champagne, or high glasses; 
pass on small plate covered with doily, and at the side of the 
plate a small cake, wafer or a few orange straws may be 
added; a rose will add to Hie attractiveness, 

ICE CEEAH 
TAHZLLA ICE CKEAH, 310 CALOSIZS • 

(Individual Rule.) 
% *^up thin cream or V* cup '/a teaspoon vsnilU, 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
IV2 tableapoons sugar. 

Blend all the ingredients; when sugar is dissolved, freeze 
in a small pail according to general directions. 



1 



308 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE ICE CBEAH, 353 CALOBISS i 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yg cup thin cream or l^ cup 1^ tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and ^ cup milk. 1 tablespoon boiling water. 

14 square Walter Baker's choco- ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

late. Speck salt. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling water, 
sugar and hot cream. Cool, add vanilla and salt and freeze 
in small pail according to general directions. 

COFFEE ICE CBEAH, 352 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yg cup thin cream or l^ cup 1^2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
1 tablespoon ground coffee. 14 cup milk. 

Mix coffee and milk, put into double boiler and cook five 
minutes. Strain through cheese-cloth and strainer; add 
sugar, salt and cream. Cool and freeze in small pail, accord- 
ing to general directions. 

JUNKET ICE CREAM, 690 CALORIES 1 

(Two Servings.) 

14 cup cream. 14 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

14 cup milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

2V2 tablespoons sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the sugar and vanilla; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Allow it to stand in warm room until firm, then beat 
thoroughly and turn into small pail and freeze according to 
General Eule. 

Note. — A variety may be made by adding two teaspoons 
cocoa dissolved in a little boiling water. Add to mixture 
before adding the tablet. Serve the creams plain or with 
whole strawberries, etc. 

Note. — The junket improves the body or consistency of 
any cream. 

^Calculated with thin cream. 



ICE CREAM 

QEAPE JinCE ICE CREAK, 490 CALORIES 

(Individual Bule.) 
% cup tiiin creain. ^ cup aug^r. 

1/4 cup Welch's grape juice. 

Scald one-half cup of tlie cream and add the sugar. Cool, 1 
add remainder of cream and the grape juiee and freeze accord- 
ing to general directions. 

STBAWBERBT ICE CHEAH, 3SS CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or % cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and '/^ cup milk. Speck salt. 
14 cup strawberries. 

Mash the strawberriea with the sugar and allow them to 
stand five minutes. Add the cream and milt and freeze in 
small paii according to general directions. 

Note. — The berries may be mashed and strained through 
cheese-cloth. 

BASFBEEBT ICE CBEAU, 363 CALORIES 
(Individual Bule.) 
^ cup thin cream or ^ cup 2 tablespoons sugar, 

heavy cream and ^ cup milk. Speck salt. 
V* "^"P raspberries. 

Mash the raspberries and strain through cheese-cloth. Add 
cream, milk and sugar. Freeze in small pail according to 
general directions. 

PEACH ICE GBEAM, 390 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
!4 cup thin cream or Vi cup y, cup peaches. 
heavy cream and % cup milk. 2 tAblespoons sugar. 

Mix peaches and sugar and press througli a potato-ricer 
or Bieve. Scald cream and milk. Cool and add peaches and 
BOgar. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 



310 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CARAMEL ICE CBEAK, 340 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yg cup thin cream or l^ cup ll^ tablespoons boiling water. 

thick cream and l^ cup milk. V^ teaspoon vanilla. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Speck salt. 

Into saucepan place the sugar and stir constantly until 
melted. Add water and boil until reduced to one and one- 
half tablespoon. Add cream very slowly, vanilla, salt, and 
freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM NO. II, 5942 CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 

1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. Speck salt. 

5 tablespoons flour. 1 quart cream. 

1 scant cup sugar for caramel. 

Scald the milk; mix one cup sugar, flour and salt, add the 
eggs and beat all together until perfectly smooth and light. 
Add the scalding milk gradually, beating until very smooth. 
Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 

While cooking, prepare caramel. Put the second cup of 
sugar in saute pan, and cook until melted and a delicate 
brown; add gradually the custard, stirring constantly; strain 
«,nd cool. Add the cream (which has been scalded and 
cooled) and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — This may be used for vanilla ice-cream by omit- 
ting the caramel and using one tablespoon vanilla and enough 
of the second cup of sugar to sweeten. 

HALTED MILK ICE CREAM, 3900 CALORIES i 

(Ten Servings.) 

l^ pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 pint cream, 

i cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

1 quart water. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
White 1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, sugar and boiling water, stir- 
ring until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate and 
cook until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla, cool and freeze. 

1 Thick cream. 



ICE CREAM 311 

When partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg, and 
finish freezing. 

Note. — If strawberry or other flavor is desired, it may be 
used in place of vanilla. 

PEPTONOIDS ICE CBEAK, 1274 CALORIES 

4 tablespoons Dry Peptonoids % pint thin cream. 

Soluble. 1 oz. chocolate. 

14 cup sugar. V^ tablespoon of vanilla. 

1 pint of water. White of 1 egg. 

Mix Dry Peptonoids Soluble, sugar and boiling water^ 
Stir until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate. Cook 
until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla; cool and freeze* 
When partially frozen, add well-beaten white of egg. 

FEOZEN GXJSTARD, 349 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 Qgg, l^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Beat the Qggy add the sugar and salt and gradually the 
scalded milk. Cool, add flavoring and freeze. 

HOT COCOA SATTCE EOB ICE CREAM, 1035 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

114 cups water. 2 tablespoons Walter Baker's co- 

1 cup sugar. coa. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Boil together the water and sugar for two minutes; add 
the arrowroot mixed with a little cold water, stir for a mo- 
ment, then boil until clear. Add the cocoa, which has been 
mixed with a little hot water, and the salt, and boil three 
minutes longer. Eemove from the fire and add the vanilla. 



NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



LEMON KIIS SHERBET, 2S8 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1/2 aup milk, 
% eup Bugnr. 

Blend all the ingredientB and freeze in small pail accord- 
ing to general directions, 

LEMOS HILE SHEBBEI, NO. II, 23H> CALORIES 
(Sis Servings.) 
1 quart milk. Juice 2 lemons. 

1 pint sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

To the lemon juice add the Bugar, milk and extract. 
Freeze immediately in large freezer. 

STKAWBEBBIT SHERBET, 357 CAIOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
Vs cup milk. Vi cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. To the juice add sugar and 
milk. Freeze in small pail according to general directioiuk« 
STBAWBEBHT 8HEEBET NO. II, S840 CALORIES M 

(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 2 cups sugar. 

2 quarts stravberries. 

Uaeh the berries and strain. Add sugar and milk. Freeze 
in large freezer. 

CLAU SHERBET. 128 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. Speck paprika. 

% cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Rule. Serve i 
email dainty glasses with a teaspoon of unsweetened whipped 
cream on top. The milk and clam taken in this way are 
often more acceptable to the patient than when served in 
liquid form. 



I 

iped I 
are 
served in 1 



Note. — The papriia may be omitted if condiments are not i 
desirable. 

BULTKD KILX SHEKSET, 214B CALOBIES 
(Six Servings.) 
% pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

3 pints water. White 1 egg. 

Make a smootli paste of the malted milk powder and a 
little of the water, then add the rest of the water gradually, 
the Bugar, vanilla and the chocolate grated. Freeze. When 
partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg and finish 



QSAPE SHEBBET, 3365 CALOBIES 

(Ten Servings.) 
3 cupB Welch's grape juice. 3 cups sugar. 

1 quart water. White 2 eggs. 

Blend the grape juiee, water and Bitgar. Partly freeze. 
Beat the whites of eggs lightly, add two tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar ; add to sherbet and continue freezing until hard. 
Eemove dasher and allow it to stand for one hour to ripen. 
Pack carefully. 

OBAfE AKBBOSIA, 6243 CAXORIES 
(Twelve Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 1 pint Welch's grape juice, 

2 quarts water. 1 can grated pineapple. 
3'/t cups sugar. Juice 3 lemons. 
Whitea 4 eggs. 

Mix together milk, water, sugar and fruit and partially 
freeze. Add the well-beaten whitea of eggs and continue 
freezing until hard. 

ICES 
OKANOE ICE, 368 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
Ya cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Juice I'/i oranges. '^ cup sugar. 



314 NUTRITIOUS DE8SEBT8 

Mix together all the ingredients and freeze in small pail 
according to general directions. 

OBANGE ICE NO. U, 990 CAL0BIS8 

(Four Servings.) 

2 tablespoons shredded gelatin. 1 cup sugar. 

Yg cup cold water. 1 cup orange juice. 

1^4 cups boiling water. Juice 1 lemon. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water twenty minutes; add boil- 
ing water; when gelatin is dissolved add the sugar, orange 
and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

ORANGE ICE NO. Ill, 1922 CAL0SIE8 

(Four Servings.) 

1 pint orange juice. Grated rind 1 orange. 

Juice 2 lemons. 1 quart water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes; add fruit juice 
and rind of orange. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — Do not use orange rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

LEMON ICE, 257 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup water. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Mix all the ingredients and freeze in small pail according 
to general directions. 

FRUIT ICE, 497 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% banana. Juice Yg lemon. 

Va cup strawberries. ^^ cup cold water. 

Juice y2 orange. 14 cup sugar. 

Put the fruit into a coarse strainer (or a potato-rieer), rub- 
bing it through into a large bowl. Pour the cold water 
through the strainer. Add the sugar, stir well and freeze 
according to general directions. 



ICES 316 

PINEAPPLE ICE, 242 CALO&IES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup Hawaiian grated pine- ^ cup water. 

apple. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1. tablespoon lemon juice. 

Boil the water and sugar together about three minutes; 
add pineapple and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze ac- 
cording to general directions. 

GBAPE PBAPPE, 2175 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 pint Welch's grape juice. 1 pint water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 2 cups sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes; cool 
and add the grape and lemon juice. Freeze to the con- 
sistency of a mush. Serve in tall glasses with sweetened 
whipped cream piled high on top. 

CLAM PEAPPE 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup cold water. Speck paprika. 

% cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Kule, to the con- 
sistency of a soft Water Ice. Serve in small punch-glasses 
or champagne glasses, with a teaspoon of unsweetened 
whipped cream on top — Delicious to serve for dinner in 
place of shellfish. 

SCALPICON OF FRUIT 

A delicious scalpicon is made by cutting all kinds of fresh 
fruits into small pieces flavoring with wine or lemon juice 
and sugar. Put into serving dish with Orange or Lemon 
Ice on top. Serve individually in champagne glasses on a 
small plate with doily, with a single rose or other flower to 
correspond with color of ice. 

OBANGE STRAWS 

Peel the orange or lemon lengthwise ; cut into long, narrow 
strips, about one-fourth of an inch wide. Put into saucepan 



316 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

and cover with cold water and bring to the boiling point and 
pour ofif the water; repeat this process five or six times, or 
until the bitter taste of peel is extracted. Drain thoroughly 
and cover with granulated sugar. Cook until sugar is dis- 
solved and is thick and hardens in cold water. Then roll 
straws in granulated sugar and cool. Serve with Orange Ice, 
etc., or as a bon-bon. 



CHAPTER XII 
CAKE 

The two methoda of making cake light are bj means of 
air and of gaa. Air is introduced by beating, or by the 
addition of beaten eggs, as in sponge cake. When the light- 
ness is entirely dependent upon air, the whites and yolka of 
eggs should be beaten separately. 

Gaa may be generated from within by combining an acid 
and alkali and adding moisture ; as cream of tartar and 
bicarbonate of soda; or sour milk and soda; or molasses and 
baking powder. The combination of both air and gas is 
used to raise butter cakes, 

Generd Directions far Calce Making, Before blending the 
eake, see that the oven is at right temperature for baking 
and the pans greased with a little beef fat and dredged with 
flour. The pan may be lined with paper to prevent cake 
burning on bottom when eake requires long baking or when 
the oven bakes too quickly on the bottom. Have all material 
at hand and measured. Use a round bottom bowl, and a 
wooden spoon for mixing; beat rather than stir the mixture 
and fold in ingredients. Put mixture in cake pans, slightly 
higher on the sides than in the center, as cake rises more 
quickly in the center. Layer cake takes a hotter oven than 
loaf cake. If cake is baked properly, it will rise, but not 
brown, during first quarter of the time required for baking; 
become slightly browned the second quarter; well browned 
during the third; and shrink from the pan during the 
fourth. 

If the oven ia too hot, a crust will form over the top be- 
fore the cake has riaen Bu£Bciently and the cake will break 
317 



318 CAKE 

open on the top. If the oven is too cooi the cake will rise too 
much and will be of coarse texture. 

Place pans in oven in such position that they may remain 
and do not move them before the third quarter of the baking. 
If the top of the cake should brown too quickly cover with 
a piece of light weight paper, slightly buttered on the one 
eide and next to the cake. 

Cake ia sufficiently baked when it shrinks slightly from 
the edge of the pan and feels firm to the touch: if when 
tested with a fine washed and heated knitting or darning 
needle and it comes out clear. In looking at cake do not 
open the oven door too wide and only for a. moment, and 
care must be taken not to jar the door in closing. 

SFOiraE CAKE, 1390 CALOBIZS 

4 eggs. V/s ten.^pooDs Rumford's baking 

1 cup powdered sugar. powder. 

% cup bread flour. Rind and juice of y^ lemon. 

Yi teaspoon aalt. 

Beat eggs separately, very light. To the yolks add the 
sugar and lemon, sift in carefully the flour blended with the 
baking powder and beat about five minutes. Then fold in 
the whites. Bake in a well-greased and floured angel cake 
tin in a moderate oven. Cake is done if when tested with a 
fine (washed) knitting needle it comes out clear, or when the 
cake shrinks from the pan. 

COLS WATER SFOITQE CAKE, 1633 CALOBIES 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoons Rumford bttldng 
1 cup sugar. powder. 

5 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
I'/a cups bread Hour. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately. To the yolka add 
the sugar and beat well ; add lemon Juice and cold water ; sift 
flour and baking powder together three times and add grad- 
nally, heating thoroughly. 

Fold in the well-beaten whites. Bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan in a moderate oven. 



^^^B 



«9 



CAKE 



HOT WATEB SPONGE CAKE, 1460 CALORIES 

3 ^BS^- Vi snltspoon salt. 

1 cup augar, ' '/^ teaspoon vaniHa. 

1 uup bread fiour. '/z cup boiling water. 
1% teaapoona Rumford baking 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar ; sift dry ingredients 
together and add gradually; add flavoring and beat well. 
Lastly add the boiling water, and bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan, in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN CASE, 2230 CALORIES 

2 egga. 4 tablespoons butter. 

y^ cup milk. 2 tcNEpoons Rutnford baking 

1 cup sugar. powiier. 

IVi cupH bread tlour lileiided with 1 teaapaon flavoring or spices. 

2 tablespoon a corn-starch. 
Line the pan with buttered paper; separate egg? Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, add the well-beaten yolks 
and flavoring. Add alternately the milk and t!ie flour with 
the baking powder sifted in it. Beat well and fold in the 
stiSly-beaten whites. Put at once in a well-lined and greased 
pan, and bake in a hot oven about thirty minutes, or until it 
shrinks from the pan, or until a fine (washed) knitting needle 
comes out dry. 

The cate may be varied by adding one-fourth cup currants, 
or a few raisins and a little citron, or mixed spices, or a little 
melted chocolate. Before adding fruit to cake it should be 
slightly floured. 

QLTTTEN nUT CASE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 1436 CALORIES i 

1 tablespoon butter. y^ teaspoon Sweetina. 

Yolka 2 eggs. Salt and spices. 

Whites 2 eggs. 1 cup nut meats. 

% cup sour milk. Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Cream the butter, add the well-beaten yolks and Sweetina 
ayrup, then the sour milk in which the soda has been blended. 
Add Gum Oluten Flour gradually to make a stiff hatter; 

■Wilhool Kliiten flonr. 



320 CAKE 

season with salt and spices and add nut meats. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

BOILED EBOSTING, 853 CALORIES 

1 cup sugar. White 1 egg. 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. l^ teaspoon flavoring. 

^ cup cold water. _ 

Boil the sugar, cream of tartar and cold water without stir- 
ring until it threads from spoon, and gradually pour on to 
the well-beaten white of Qgg. Add any flavoring to taste. 
Beat until thick and spread quickly. A little chocolate may 
be added for variety, or chopped nuts or cocoanut, etc. 

HABGTTERITE WAFERS 

Take "Long Branch ^^ wafer crackers and spread with 
plain-boiled frosting, or add nuts, chocolate, coeoanut, etc. 
Put in oven a moment to dry, but not brown. Dainty to 
serve with Ice Cream, Ices and Sherbet. 

GINGER BREAD, 2600 CALORIES 

1 egg. l^ cup boiling water. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

7 tablespoons melted butter. 1% cups bread flour or 

1 teaspoon soda. 2% cups pastry flour. 

Beat egg in mixing bowl ; add molasses, melted butter, and 
gradually one cup of flour. To the remaining flour add the 
soda and ginger, sift and add to mixture; beat well and add 
the boiling water. Bake in well-greased and floured gem tins, 
or shallow pan, in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Test 
with a fine (washed) darning needle; when it comes out clear, 
or the cake shrinks from the pan the cake is done. 



PAET III 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

DIET m DISEASE 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



CHAPTEE XIII 

HOSPITAL DIETAEIES 

GEITEBAL TYPES OF DIET USED IN HOSPITALS 

LIQUID OB FLUID FOODS 

Acid, starchy and miscellaneous drinks. Eaw eggs in the 
fonn of all albuminous drinks. Milk in different ways as 
given in recipes under chapter; thus milk may be flavored 
with cocoa, chocolate, coffee or meat broth ; diluted with lime 
water, ApoUinaris or Vichy ; combined with starchy drinks or 
strained gruels. Broths of various kinds; beef juice; beef 
tea ; beef extract. Soups, both clear and creamy ; oysters and 
clams. 

SOFT OB SEm-SOLID FOOD 

Milk and water gruels. Water, milk or creamy toast. 
Starchy and meat jellies. Custards in various forms. Whips 
and souffle. Junkets, cornstarch puddings or blanc-mange, 
gelatins. Ice cream, sherbet, ices. Plain cream, butter, olive 
oil, mayonnaise dressing, cod liver oil, plain or emulsified. 

SOLID FOODS 

Qruels and mushes. Various forms of bread, toast and 
crackers. Eggs prepared in many forms. Meats cooked in 
various ways; as beef, mutton, lamb; chicken, turkey or 
game; sweetbreads; fish, oysters, clams. Suitable vegetables 
and fruits. 

TTPICAL DIETS EBOM VAEIOITS HOSPITALS 

LIGHT DIET i 
(or Convalescent Diet) 

Breakfast. — Milk, tea, coffee or cocoa (with milk and sugar). 
Bread and butter, white bread, graham bread or toast. 
Cereals with cream. Eggs (any style except fried). Fruit: 
fresh in season or dried. 

> Diet uatd at Nathan Littauer Hospital, OloTersTille, New York. 

323 



324 HOSPITAL DIET ARIES 

Dinner. — Tea (milk). Soup, with stock ox broths; or c 

Crackera, bread and butter. Eggs: Bo£t boiled or poached or 
law (it deaired). Vegetablea: baked or stuffed potato or rice. 
DeBBerta: light puddinga or icea or ice cream or jelllea or 
custardB or freah or stewed fruits or baked apples. 

■Bupper. — Tea (milkf. Fruit; (freah in season), dried, canned or 
preserved. Bread and butter: wlijte bread, toast, milk toast; 
egg or fruit sandwich. Vegetables: baked or stuffed potato, 
creamed baked potato; rice, baked bananas or macaroni 
(plain). Eggs (any stjle except fried). Light puddings or 
custards, jellies, plain cakes. 

TYPICAL LIQHT DIET i 

Breakfast. — Oranges, coffee with milk and sugar, or tea; milk, cream 

of wheat, eggs (soft cooked in shell), toast. 
I>i niier.^ Tea and milk, aoup, crackers, bread and butter, baked 

potato, snow pudding. 
Supper,— Tea, milk, bread and butter, steamed rice, canned peaches, 

cake, jelly. 



HILE DIET 3 

During the daj give 6 to 8 ounces every two hours. 
During the night give 8 to 8 ounces every three houra. 
(When very ill give every two houra during the night.) 

TLUID DIET a 

Milk, beef tea, chicken broth, mutton broth, egg albumin. 

SOFT DIET s 
Cereals, soft ^gs, milk toast, cuatard, farinaceous puddings, tea. 



I 



SOFT SOLIDS 4 

ift eggs, crackers in milk or broth, jellies of all kinds, 



Soft 

ice cream, soft puddings without 

strained, very weak tea, coffee or 

Avoid: meat, potatoes, vegetabli 

LIQTTID OR FABIITACEOnS 
Cereals, bread, jellies, liquids, ice cream, custard, 
puddings (without raisins), chic 



I, liquids of all kinds, soups 

LCEons * ^^M 

ream, custard, blanc-mui^^^H 

lloveriTllle, New Tork, ^^H 

..J 




TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 



FARINACEOUS DIET i 
Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and buttert I 

white bread or graham bread or rolls or muffins c 
CereaU. 

Dinner. — Soup: vegetable or macaroni or barley broth. Bread or 
cracters. Vegetables; baked potatoes or tomatoes or French 
beans or riee or macaroni or snmp. Puddings; rice or bread 
or cracker or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar}. Bread and milk or milk toast or 
hominy or boiled riee or puffed rice with custards or milk or 
farina or banana or potatoes baked. Fruit; apples (stewed 
or baked) or prunea or pears or peaches or apricots (other 

ITITEOGElIOirB DIET i 
Meat, fish, eggs (not fried), oysters, junket, custard, ice cream, 
string beans, soup and oatmeal; with crackers, fruit, butter and let- 
tuce. 
Breakfast.— Milk or tea or coffee {with milk). Bread and butter: 

graham bread. Meats; eggs or fresh fish or stew without 

v^etubles or meat or hash without potatoes. 
iKnner. — Soup ; stock or cllowder, graham bread. Meats ; beef 

(roast or boiled) or fresh flsh or Irish stew. Vegetables; 

spinach, lettuce, celery or string beans. Desserts ; custards. 
Supper. — Tea (milk), grsbam bread and butter or bread and milk, 

eggs or cold meat. 

NVTKIEirE DIETS 

Two eggs strained througli miislin into a tablespoon of cold 
water until dissolved. Add this to four to six ounces of cold 
milk, add one-half drachm salt, dissolved in water. If pa- 
tient is very low add tincture opii (deodorized). At times 
beef juice, one-half drachm is added, but is not necessary. 

OZALintIA DIET i 

Oxaluria, as the name signifies, is an excess of oxalate of 
lime in the form of crystals in the urine, usually affecting the 
nervous, irritable dyspeptic. It is considered that p 

'Diet n>ed it Nitban Lillauer Hoipilal. OloTeisviUe, 14 



326 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

frequency of the disease among the poorer classes is due to 
an excessive vegetable diet, sugar and starch foods, com- 
bined with irritating activities. The diet should be carefully 
regulated, though liberal. All vegetables and drugs contain- 
ing oxalates must be avoided; all lime or hard water should 
be forbidden and replaced by boiled or distilled water. Sugar 
should be prohibited, coffee and tea replaced by milk. 

Avoid asparagus, celery, cauliflower, green beans, tomatoes, 
spinach, rhubarb, potatoes, sorrel, carrots, parsnips, berries, 
apples, pears, plums, grapes, chocolate and cocoa. Cut carbo- 
hydrates low. Give this: (1) eggs, toast, milk; (2) meat or 
fish, green vegetables, except those forbidden; peas, onions, 
custard, fruit, ice cream; (3) cereals, cold meat, cooked fruit, 
except forbidden forms. 

STRICT SUGAR-FREE DIET ' 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 

See " Diabetic Diet.'' Page 357. 

SPECIAL EAT-EREE DIET i 

Breakfast. — Lean meat, 100 gms. ; toasted bread, 50 gms.; coflFee with 
a little milk and saccharine (no butter, no cream, no sugar). 
11 A. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 

'Noon. — Clear soup, fat-free; bread, 50 gms.; lean meat, 100 gms. 
4 p. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 

.Supper. — Lean meat, 100 gms.; bread, 50 gms.; rice, 50 gms. 

SALT-EREE DIET i 

See Nephritis Diet. Page 393. 

TEST DIETS 1 

Much stress is laid upon test-diets in order to determine the 
ability of the patient to properly assimilate fats, proteins or 
carbohydrates. These test-diets are known as " fat-free days,'' 
"sugar-free days," "vegetable days," "oatmeal days," and a 
diet giving the proper amount of bulk, containing little pro- 
teids and carbohydrates, with the caloric value of the fat so 
low that it is styled " starvation days." 

^Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 

The main test-diet is the Schmidt diet as modified by Dr. 

Hewes.' It runs tJiree days, beginning with breakfast, and 

is as follows : 

Schmidt Diet 

Homing, — Fifty grammea zwieback; '/z litre oatmeal grwel, made 
uf 40 gma. rollsd oats, 20U ca. milk, 300 cc. water, 1 egg, 10 
gms. butter. 11 A. M., '/^ litre milk. 

Noon 125 gins, chapped beef broiled and made palatable with 20 

gma. butter; 260 gma. potato mashed with 10 gma. butter; 50 
gma. toast. 4 f. m., one-balf litre niitd. 

Sight. — Same as morning. (Stools third and fourth days.) It is 
carefully weighed, measured, and prepared, and one-fifth ad- 
ditional of the amount served ia aent to the laboratory for 
analysis. All the patient does not consume is wi-ighed and 
deducted i all uriue and feces are calculated. 

HOSPITAL EXTRA DIET ^ 
Chicken, eggs, stale hread and toast, scraped beef, sand- 
wiches, blanc-mange, soft custard without raisins; raw oy&- 
ters, milk, broths, gruels, soups, milk whey, oranges, lemonade, 
crackerHj jelly, ice cream, weak tea, coffee or cocoa. 

PISE DIET 

Consists of a ration of bread, ten ounces, and fish, eight 
ounces (the uncooked measure), such as haddock, cod or sole, 
or similar fiah, potatoes, eight ounces, cocoa, one ounce, with 
half an ounce of sugar and a sixth of a pint of milk. 

This is a serviceable form, of diet for those for whom large 
quantities of meat are not only uuneceasary but injurioua. 

BEOTK DIET 
In children's hospitals a diet is sometimes classified as the 
*' broth diet," consisting of mutton broth flavored with veg- 
etables, and bread and butter, with milk ; or a " beef tea diet," 
in which beef tea replaces the broth. In the lighter diet of 
children, gruels, bread and molasses, and simple farinaceous 

.11, MaiischDietti 0«nenl Hoapltat. 



328 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

foods such as farina, cornstarch, rice, etc., should play i 

importaot rSle. Sometimes such a diet goes under the name 

of " soft food." 

BESTBICIED SIEI 

Breakfast, — Tea or coffee (with milk and sugar). Farinaceoua food 
(with milk). Eggs. 

Dinner, — Soup; raw oysters, roast beef, steak or chicken and veg- 
etables. Pudding (bread, rice, tapioca or coroBtarch). 

Supper. — Tea (with milL and sugar). Bread (with butter). Pruit 
(fresh or dried). 

BELIEYUE HOSPITAL TS IB£ CITT OZ HEW TOBE, I&IO J 

I>letai7 Table foi Patlenta ■ 

MONDAY 1 

Breakfast. — Ckiffee, with milk and sugar, bread and buttery oatmeBl, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Diniter.— Roast beef, rice, soup, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
iS upper.— Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 
apples. 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar) , bread and butter, bomiiif, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner, — Mutton stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread, bread pudc 
Suffer. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, pruncB. 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butt«r, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner, — Roast beet, barley soup, potatoes, bread. 
Bupper. — Tea, (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, atewi 

prunes. 

TEIURSDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, oatmi 

crackers, milk (1 qt. ). 
Dinner. — Beef stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Bupper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewedd 

apricots. 

FRIDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, t 

eggs, crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner.-^ Baked flsh, potatoes, vegetables, bread, rice pudding. 
Bupper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 329 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee ( wHt milk and sugar ) , bread and butter, hominy, 
crackers, milk (1 qt.). 

Dinner. — -Slutton stew, potatoes, 

Bupper. — Tea (with milk and 
prunes, apples. 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, crack- 
ers, milk (1 qt. I, two eggs. 

Dinner. — Corn beef, bean suup, potatoes, bread, cornstarch pudding. 

Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 

MILK DIET 

To be prescribed by the attending physician or surgeons. 

ARTICLES OF SPECIAL DIET 
Beefsteak, beef tea, chicken, chicken soup, rice and milk, eggs. 



HOUSE DIET 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 
White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 
Porridge: Oatmeal or wheaten-grits or Indian meai or hom- 
iny or farina or samp. Meats; Hash or eggs or salt flsh 
or fresh fish or stew. 

Dinner. — Soup: Stock or mutton broth with barley or vegetable or 
chowder; dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or mut- 
ton (roast or boiled) or corned beef or fresh fish or Irisb 
stew. Vegetables: Potatoes, baked, boiled or mashed and 
toraatoea or baked beans or French henna or turnipa or 
beets or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding; Rice or bread 
or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or custard. 

Supper. — Tea {sugar and milk), bread and butter or toast and 
butter. Fruit: Apples stewed or baked or prunes or pears. 

CONVALESCENT DIET 

Breatfaat. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter. 
White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast- 
Porridge: Hominy or farina. Meats; Eggs or fresh flah or 
stew (plain). 

iKniHT. — Soup: Stock or chicken or mutton broth with barley or 
vegetable. Dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or 



1 



330 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

chicken or fish (fresh). Vegetables: Potatoes (baked) or rice 
or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or tapioca or 
farina or cornstarch or custard. 
Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar). Bread and milk or milk toast or 
bread and butter or toast and butter. Fruit: Apples stewed 
or baked or prunes or pears. 

NITROGENOUS DIET 

Breakfast, — Tea or coffee (milk), bread and butter, Graham bread. 

Meats: Eggs or fresh fish or stew without vegetables or meat, 

hash without potatoes. 
Dvrmer. — Soup : Stock or chowder, Graham bread. Meats : Beef 

(roast or boiled) or mutton (roast or boiled) or fresh fi.sh or 

Irish stew. Vegetables: Spinach or lettuce or celery or 

string beans. Pudding: Custard. 
Supper. — Tea (milk), Graham bread and butter or bread and milk, 

eggs or cold meat. 

FARINACEOUS DIET 

Breakfast.-^ Tea. or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 

White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 

Porridge: Hominy or farina or Indian meal. 
Dinner. — Soup : Vegetable or macaroni or barley broth ; dry bread. 

Vegetables: Baked potatoes and tomatoes or French beans 

or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or 

tapioca or farina or cornstarch. 
Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar) J[)read and milk or milk toast or 

hominy or boiled rice or farina. Fruit: Apples stewed or 

baked or prunes or pears. 

MILK DIET 

Breakfast. — One quart of milk. 

Dinner. — One quart of milk. , 

Supper. — One quart of milk. 

EXTRAS 

OBDEBED ONLY BY THE ATTENDING PHYSICIAN OB SX7B6EON 

Mutton chops, beef steak, scraped beef, beef tea (made with hydro- 
chloric acid), chicken (broiled, fricasseed or roast), chicken 
broth, eggs, milk, oysters, clam broth, gruels, crackers, ginger 
bread, custard, milk toast. 



CHAPTER XIV 
SIET IK DISEASE 

One of the most Btriking differences between the older and 
more recent methods of treatment of disease is the careful 
Httention bestowed upon the diet at the present day. Por it is 
now recognized that the proper selection of food, both solid 
and fluid, is of as much importance as the use of medicaments. 
In the management of diseases affecting the digestive organs 
proper, and in all affections of metabolism (gout, oheeity and 
diabetes, for example) the diet may be said to represent the 
treatment, and there is hardly any disease which may not be 
benefited hy intelligent feeding. 

These matters, however, are left entirely to the medical prac- 
titioner, and it is only esceptionally that the nurse is required 
to assume any responsibility. She should know in a general 
way, however, the types of food suitable in different diseased 
conditions, so that she may avoid harmful foods when not 
given specific instructions, and so that she may adapt the 
prescribed diet to the tastes of the individual. For this pur- 
pose, an outline of the diets in use in common diseases is 
included in this volume. 

DIET IN FEVEKS AND INPECTIODS DISEASES 
DIET IIT FEVEB, IS QEITEEAL 

In fevers due to poisons circulating in the blood, there is 
an interference with heat regulation, so that the heat gen- 
erated in the body cannot he gotten rid of in the normal 
way; an increased metabolism; and a disturbance of the di- 
gestive and absorptive functions. It is, therefore, desirable to 
give easily digested food, in small quantities at frequent in- 
331 




332 DIET IN DISEASE 

tervals, preferably in liquid form, as substances dissolved uf 
water are more readily absorbed, and water tends to aid in 
cooling the body to uormai temperature. 

For the first three or four days, patients previously strong, 
should be given only fluid foods. But since a normal man, 
lying quietly in bed, requires about 2000 calories to com- 
pensate for daily loss of energy, and in the increased metab- 
olism of fever, this requirement ia increased, it is necessary 
that more substantial food be incorporated into the diet as far 
as is possible without disturbing digestion. 

DIET.— Milk ia the staple food, but must be given with e«te, 
swallowed very slowly and diluted with limewater, soda, Beltzer or 
other effervescent water- — one part to two parta milk. 

If milk can be taken, two or three pints should be given — four 
ounces every two hours, or six ounces every three hours. In case 
milk does not, agree, whey may be given as a, aubatitute for milk in 
part or in whole. Modified milk or peptonized milk may be given. 
Sometimes tbe milk may be flavored with tea, colTee, cocoa or 
malted milk and junket used. 

Next to milk the moat important article of diet is beef juice and 
broths. Ne.xt come well cooked gruels, fjiter well prepared cereals 
and malt extract are valuable, and plain or cocoa junkets. Usually 
there ia thirst, and all acid drinks, such as grape juice, may be taken. 

Panopepton with crushed ice, peptoniaed milk, clam, mutton and 
chicken broth, beef tea, clear soups, thickened with some farinaceous 
substance, gelatin jellies, are all of value. 

Liquids. — Pure cold water, toast water, any of the acid drinks, 
all sipped slowly, are recommended both to relieve thirst anil on 
account of facilitating the speed with which the waste matter re- 
sulting from increased metabolism of the fever is eliminated through 
the kidneys. 

AVOID. — Any solid or vegetable food or fruits, until permitted 
by the physiciau in charge. 

DIET IH COHVALESCEKCE FROH FEVEK 

Thompion 1 
ConvaleBcents who have long subsisted solely upon j 
must be careful in resuming solid diet, for the rapidity of 
recuperation of the digestive organs varies in different per- 



y of 
per- 

i 



FEVEES AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 333 

sons, and taking meats or other Bolid foods too soon may cause 
rise in. temperature, rapid heart action, and possibly visceral 
congestion. The first meat given, therefore, should be in a 
finely subdivided state, such as scraped beef or minced chicken. 

During convalescence from protracted fevers the more 
easily digested forma of starchy foods are found to he very 
useful, especially if there has been much loss of weight. Sago 
and tapioca, and dried bread crumbs rolled through a fine 
sieve may be added to thicken clear meat broths. Crackers 
and zwieback are useful. 

Other ingredients which may be added to thicken soupa 
during convalescence are panada, semolina, tapioca, and maca- 
roni. Custard puddings, cooked fruit, wine and beef jellies, 
blanc-mange, or baked custard, may be allowed. " Mush," 
fine hominy, cornstarch, farina, and boiled rice, with beef 
juice, can be ordered. 

The following dietary will serve as a general guide for 
feeding convalescents from fevers of ordinary severity in 
which special lesions of the alimentary canal are not present. 

FIRST DAY 
Breakfatt. — Poached egg on toaat. Cocoa. 
livnch. — Milk punch. 

Dinner, — Ba.w ojatera. Cream crackera. Light wine if deaired. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot meat broth. 
Btipper. — Millt toast. Wine jelly. Tea. 

BECOND DAY 

Breakfast. — Soft cooked egg. Milk punch. Coffee with sugar and 

Lunch. — One cup of soft custard. 

Dinner. — Cream of celery Boup. Sippeta of toast. A little "barley 

pudding, with cream. Sherry wine if desired. 
Lunch. — Milk punch, 
jBupper. — Water toaat, buttered. Wine jelly. Tea. 

THIRD DAY 

Breal-fasl. — Coddled eggs. Cream toast. Cocoa. 
L«nch. — One cup of hot chicken broth. 

Dinner. — Chicken panada. Bread. Light wine it desired. A little 
tapioca ercam. 



334 DIET IN DISEASE 

Lunch. — An eggnog. 

Supper. — Buttered dry toast. Baked sweet apples and cream. Tea. 

FOURTH DAY 

Breakfast. — An orange. Oatmeal (H. 0.), with cream and sugar. 

Poached egg on toast. Baked potato. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot, soft custard. 
Dinner. — Potato soup. Crodtons. A small piece of beefsteak. 

Creamed potatoes. Baked custard. Coffee. 
Lunch. — One cup of chicken broth, with rice. 
Supper. — Raw oysters. Banquet crackers. Graham bread, toasted 

Wine jelly. Tea. 

FIFTH DAY 

Breakfast. — An orange. Coffee. Oatmeal, with cream and sugar. 
Broiled mutton chop. Toast. 

Lunch. — One cup of mulled wine. . 

Dinner. — Chicken soup. Bread. Creamed sweetbreads. Duchess po- 
tatoes. Snow pudding. Cocoa. 

Lunch. — Siphon soda, with coffee syrup and cream. 

Supper. — Buttered dry toast. Orange jelly. Sponge cake and 
cream. Tea. 

A further discussion of this topic will be found in the sec- 
tion upon Convalescence in Typhoid Fever. 

AVhile brandy and whiskey constitute the best form in 
which to give alcohol in the acute stage of fever, in con- 
valescence it is often advisable to use some other alcoholic 
drink, and an occasional change from one variety to another 
renders the patient somewhat less liable to the danger of 
acquiring a permanent alcoholic habit. For convalescence, 
if the patient's purse can afford it, champagne, port wine, 
sherry, Madeira, or a good claret or Burgundy, may be taken 
with advantage, in the class of cases above mentioned. 

TYPHOID FEVER 

The modern dietetics of typhoid may be conveniently con- 
sidered under three plans of feeding as follows : 

1. Starvation Treatment of Typhoid, This ancient method 
of feeding or omitting to feed typhoid patients has recently 
been revived with alleged good results, but those who have 
tested the method are thus far few in number and it is very 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 335 

unlikely that the profession as a whole will ever adopt it, 
especially since we know what may be done with liberal feed- 
ing. Typhoid subjects are commonly young, vigorous and 
well nourished and can naturally subsist for a long time on 
their own stored-up nutriment; while by "starvation" tliey 
are protefted from intestinal fermentation of undigested food. 
Hence suih patients may seem to do well for a number of 
dajs on water alone given in unlimited quantities. But this 
represents but one aspect, and that a narrow one, in the prob- 
lem of feeding tjphoid patients, and is applicable only to 
particular ca^es and particular stages of such cases. Much 
would also depend, perhaps, on other methods of treatment 
in use Thus if the fever were kept down by cold baths, 
the demand for nutriment would doubtless be less than were 
the fever allowed to pursue its course. 

With advancing age the mortality rate increases greatly, and 
patients above thirty-five or forty doubtless require nutri- 
ment to a greater extent than the youtliful. 

3. Liquid Diet in Typhoid, This consists chiefly of milk, 
varied with broths and cereal decoctions. The milk which is 
the mainstay, is given in amounts up to two quarts in twenty- 
four hours, otlier articles being given only now and then to 
vary the monotony. Milk may itself be administered in 
various forms — peptonised milk, whey, malted milk and 
junket, kumysa and artificially-soured milk.* Water is also 
given freely. This mode of dieting has tieen for many years 
the prevailing one for the acutely dangerous period of the 
disease, having succeeded the earlier beef tea diet. Tinder 
liquid diet may also be mentioned the various prcdigested 
foods, which, by reason of their concentrated state, are of 
value when there is difficulty in ingesting enough milk to 
make up the proper fuel value for the day. 

Of late years, it has Iteen claimed that milk is unsuiled 
for diet in typhoid because it forms an ideal culture medium 
for bacteria. A much older ohjecfion is the necessary forma- 
tion of irritating curds from the cows' milk usually given. 
This last objection has been met to some extent by peptonlsa- 

" Ewnid reoonmicnds SanHtrnTn in milk nnd lirotli. 



'i 




VIET IN DISEASE |H 

tion of the milk, and by ingesting it very slowly, bo that no 
large clot can quickly form. Milk already curdled and emul- 
sified, as in the form of kumyss and other fermented products 
escapes this objection, and is less favorable to putrefaction. 
But the moat weighty objection to a fluid diet is probably 
found in the belief that it gives too few calories in propor- 
tion to the volume of food injected, and hence like the 
starvation treatment is not adapted for routine use but only 
for special cases and special periods, 

3. Liberal or Generous Diet. This in its widest sense is 
doubtless the only sound routine plan, for it permits the use 
of semi-solid food if the patient can take it and digest it. 
It allows considerable variety, for such dishes as custard, ice 
cream, arrowroot, calf's foot jelly and the like, usually re- 
served for convalescence, may often be taken safely at an 
early period in the disease. There is, in fact, hardly any 
line drawn as to how far a person may go, provided he does 
not go beyond the dietary proper for delicate BtomschB. 
Baked potato, baked apple, rice pudding, water toast and 
similar articles are gradually added to the diet and even Iamb 
chop and soft-boiled egp are given while the temperature is 
still elevated. This, of course, is in direct violation of the 
older rule of giving liquid food until fever has completely 
subsided. The justification appears to lie in the fact that 
liberal diet often saves life, and in cases where the chances 
seem against recovery it is one of the reserve cards to play. 
Because if the patient is likely to die in any case, the solid 
diet, if it can be tolerated, cannot add to the risk and may 
be of incalculable value. This observation was made long 
ago in connection with such diseases as childbed fever, blood 
poisoning, erysipelas, meningitis, gangrene and similar mala- 
dies with a natural tendency to go from bad to worse; and 
the severest types of typhoid belong in the same category of 
diseases. 

Note. — " High Caloric Feeding" in typhoid which has been 
tested in recent years is known as the high caloric, in which 
it is aimed to give the patient far more calories than he 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 3S?1 

should utilize in health, even at the hardest labor and on the 
most liberal diet. This is the exact antitheais of the water 
or starvation diet, in which the patient subsists on his own 
tissues. In the high caloric plan the theory is to supply 
Buch an excess of nutriment that the least possible loss of tis- 
sue occurs; so that the period of convalescence and recupera- 
tion should be greatly shortened. Certain physicians have 
actually claimed a gain in weight during the fever under 
plans of this character. It is obviously very difficult to feed 
typhoid patients with food having the highest calorific value. 
Even the blandest fats are badly tolerated, as is also cane 
sugar. It is possible, however, to use glucose, dextrin, and 
especially lactose, along with brandy, more or less in connec- 
tion with ordinary feeding, to such a degree that in in- 
dividual cases the number of calories in tlie ordinary liberal 
diet may be practically doubled. 

Whatever shortcomings exist in connection with calorie 
feeding are naturally increased with the amount of food. 
There ie practically no limit to what can be ingested in 
twenty-four hours, but there may be a limit to utilization. 
The amount of calories actually used can only be determined 
by painstaking investigation of the excreta. There is also 
great individual variation in the oxidation of special food- 
stuffs, as is seen notably in alcohol. The greater the daily 
intake, the greater the difficulty in establishing common 
standards. For this and other reasons it is best to regard 
caloric feeding as merely a check on the older methods and 
on common experience. It is hardly likely, therefore, that 
high caloric feeding will ever come into vogue, although it 
may have a field in the individual case or at some special 
period in a case. 

LiaUID DIET IN ITPHOID FEVER 

In the ordinary case, two and a half pints of milk and a 
pint and a half of beef, mutton or chicken broth will be a fair 
average supply, given in divided quantities, alternately. 
Give ten ounces at a time, every three hours; the broths will 



1 



338 DIET IN DISEASE 

come in after every second supply of milk. The amount of 
meat broths must be governed by the state of the bowels. If 
diarrhoea^ then broths must not be given, or should be 
given in very small quantities. 

Broths tend to increase diarrhoea. In some cases meat jellj 
iced or extract of meat may be taken in place of broths, a 
teaspoon being given at a time. 

The chief guide in the matter of food in typhoid must be 
found in the condition of the stools. The physician in charge 
of the case should himself see the feces daily. If any signs 
of undigested food appear, there is something regarding the 
dietary that is wrong. If masses of hard curd appear in the 
motion, there is probably too much milk given in the twenty- 
four hours, or it is being given in too large quantities at a 
time. 

It may be that the quantities are not wrong, and that dilu- 
tion of the milk, or the addition of an alkali, or of some 
farinaceous material in powder well cooked in milk will an- 
swer the purpose by preventing the formation of the firm 
curd. 

Milk, if not retained or digested, should be peptonised. 

The chill may be taken from milk by adding a little hot 
water, and twenty drops of the saccharated solution of lime 
in each supply will secure alkalinity. Farinaceous substances 
to use in milk are arrowroot and baked flour, to aid in subdi- 
vision of the curd. Food should not be given as the nurse 
sees fit, but definite directions should bo laid down as to the 
quantity to be given at a time and the mode of its administra- 
tion. 

Indication for the use of alcohol lies in the condition of 
the heart. A small, frequent, easily compressed pulse, espe- 
cially if associated with feebleness of the first sound of the 
heart, is a clear indication that alcohol is required. The 
amount given should be small — from a teaspoon to a table- 
•poon, or one ounce of wine. 

Alcohol, on account of effect only lasting for a short time, 
should be given every two hours, so that stimulation is kept 



m 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 339 

up. In giving alcohol, you get an effect first of stimulation, 
then depression. 

The use of alcohol is not advocated by some physicians. 

TYPHOID FLTTTD DIET OF PRESBTTEKIAN HOSPITAL i 

Milk, broth, egg albumin. 

TYPHOID FIinD WET OF QIOVEKSVILLE HOSFIT&L ' 

Milk, strained broths of chickcE, mutton, beef, clam brotli, 
barley water, farina, arrowroot and other gruels, custards, egg- 
nog, weak tea, bouillon, junket, cream, egg albumin, gelatin, 

DIET IN COTTVALESCENCE FKOH TYPHOID 

Thompson s 

As the fever subsides, it becomes an important question 
how soon to allow a return to solid food. Eelapscs are very 
easily induced by indiscretion in this regard. 

The patient's appetite is always a dangerous guide to fol- 
low in this disease. After four or five weeks of an exclusive • 
milk or milk and broth diet, when the temperature subsides, 
and often before it has become normal, he becomes ravenous. 
Like a long-starved man, he thinks of nothing but food, and 
demands something new to eat every day. A hospital ward 
containing a dozen convalescing typhoid fever patients, ia 
difficult to manage, as a bread riot is constantly menaced. Ill- 
advised but sympathetic friends attempt to smuggle in all 
manner of forbidden fruits, and the patient just arrived at 
the hungry state is tempted to steal solid food from his more 
advanced neighbors. 

In the milder cases it is undoubtedly both safe and wise 
to allow a strengthening diet at an early date, and it will 
greatly prolong convalescence to forbid it. Light farinaceous 
diet — tapioca, rice, vermicelli, cream-toast, a cracker soaked 
in cream, etc. — may be given with impunity in cases which 
have run a mild course, as soon as the temperature remains 

> Diet nixd nt the PrHbTteriin Hogpital. New Ycirk. 
'Diet med it the Ksthan Littiaer Hoapilsi, OlorersTllie, N. Y. 
■W, GilmHn Thompion, U.D.: " Pncllciil Dietetic!." New Toik. D. 
Appleton * Oo. 



340 



DIET m DISEASE 



normal. Meat broth may be thickened with rice, sago, oc 
vermicelli. Id a day or two more, the soft part of oysters 
or a chop are permissible in cases which have preHented no 
need of prolonging a fluid diet for fear of intestinal injury. 
Tbe following is a list of fluids suitable for the different 
days of convalescence, comnienciDg a day or two after disap- 
pearance of all fever. Milk should still be given, until grad- 
ually wholly replaced by solid food : 



DIET HI TTTHOID AFTEE TWO SATS OF KOBHAL TEUPE: 

TUEEi 
First Day. — Chicken broth thickened with thoroughly boiled 

Milk toast or cream toaat once only during the day. Beef 

juice. 
Seoond Day. — Junket, mutton broth, and bread crumbB, Cocoa. 

Milk toast. A piece of tender stfiak may be chewed but not 

swallowed. One of the prepared fariuaccouB foods, sucli as 

Horlick's, may be given with a cup of hot milk. 
Third Day. — A small scraped beef sandwich at noon. A soft cookod 
, egg or baked custard for supper. Baited rice or potato pur^ 

strained. Arrowroot gruel. 
Fourth Day. — The soft part of three or four oysters. Meat broth 

thickened with a beaten egg. Cream toaat. Kice pudding or 

blanc-mange and whipped cream, or Bavarian cream. 
Fifth Day. — Scraped beef sandwich. A tender sweetbread. Bread 

and milk. A poached egg. Wine jelly or calf's foot jelly. 

Macaroni, 
fitieth Day. — Mush or crackers and milk, scrambled eggs, chicken 

jelly. Bread and butter. The soft parts of raw oysters. 
Seventh Day. — A small piece of tenderloin steak or a little breast of 

broiled chicken. Bread and butter. Boiled rice. Wine jelly. 

Sponge cake and whipped cream. 
Eighth Day. — A slice of tender rare roast beef, a thoroughly 

mealy potato served with butter or mashed with 

Other food as before. 
Sinth Day. — A little broiled fresh fish for breakfast. Beef steak Bt 

dinner. Rice, macaroni, eggs. Sago, rice, or milk pudding. 

A baked apple. 
Tenth Day. — Mush and milk. A squab or breast of partridge or 

roast chicken. Other foods as before. ' ■" 



^ 




• ■ PracticB 



itetic*. 




FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 341 

For the next four or five days the patient may select 
artick'B from the menu of the previous day, so that three 
good meals a day are taken, besides three or four glasses of 
milk between meals. 

It is often desirable to give a little alcoholic stimulant, 
especially if there is much dilTerence in the frequency of tlie 
pulse between lying and sitting or standing, or if the pulse 
rate is very low, say 56, as it sometimes is. A glass of sherry 
or a good, sound Burgundy, or a tumbler of ale may "be 
drunk, but with meals only, 

DIET IN TTPEOID AFTER TWO WEEKS 07 NORMAL TEHPESA- 

TUBE 
Presbj^erlan Hospital > 
Strained vegetable soups, baked apples, baked potatoes, oat- 
meal. 

TYPHOID DELICACIES 
Presbyterian Hoipttal i < 
Rice (well cooked), junket, custard, gruels, milk toast, 
scraped beef, eggs. 

TYPHOID EXTHA DIET 
FresbTteriBii Hasp It b1 > 
Broths, beef soups, oysters, white fish, beef, chops, mutton, 
steak, custard, eggs, chicken, rice, white bread, toast, farina- 
ceous puddings. 

Avoid vegetables, fruit, pastry or hot bread. 

LIBEEAL DIET IH TYPHOID FEVER 

Shattnck : 
When typhoid fever kills it does so either by perforation 
or exhaustion, the proportion of the former being estimated 
at 5 to 10 per cent. The main factors in producing the ex- 
haustion which causes the death of at least nine-tenths of the 
fatal eases are toxemia, continued fever, diarrhcea and vomit- 

' Diet used nl tha PreabTterian Hoipllsl, New York. 

' Frederick C. Shultuck. M.D.— Read br title in tlie Section on Fracticre 
el Urdicine at tlia Kiirty el(hlh Annual Meeting of t)ie Americin Medical 
; PhiUdBlphia. p«., June 1-*. 18B7. 



I 



f 843 DIET IN DISEASE 

ing, and intestinal hemorrhage. The heart is ordinarily the"" 
best index of the presence and degree of exhaustion, and the 
moat frequent serious pulmonary complication, hypoBtasia, in 
its various forms, degrees and eonseqiiences, ia the direct out- 
growth of the cardiac weakness. Moreover, typhoid fever ia 
not sliort and sharp like pneumonia, but of long course, and 
Bsually attended with decided, often with very great wasting 
of the muscular and fatty tissues. 

Most of us are agreed that we are not as yet acquaintedl^ 
with any therapeutic measures which will either abort or veiylj 
materially shorten the course of the disease. We are, I think^J 
unanimous in believing that husbanding the strength from, I 
the start through skillful nursing, the judicious use of wat^J 
externally and internally, and the supervision of a " 
tendant on the watch for and prepared to meet such indicfuij 
tiona as may arise, materially modiiies the course of the din 
ease and lessens its mortality. If what I have assumed to h 
facts be really facts, the question of diet must be a vei^J 
important one in the management of typhoid fever. It igfl 
through the food which is assimilated, not through that whieaM 
is merely put into the stomach, that we seek to limit the t 
Bue waste wliile the process is active, and also try lo land t 
patient on the low shore of convalescence with as much of t 
property as may he; for the recovery of hia property is mM 
necessary preliminary to the attainment of the high tablelanda 
of full health. 

Under the old doctrines as to inflammation, fever was i 
unfailing indication for depletion; directly by veneaectionj^!! 
pukes, sweats and purges; indirectly by starvation, Indi»>'^ 
criminate direct depiction is now a thing of the past, and 
since the time of Todd the fact has gradually been more and 
more clearly recognized that the febrile state is often an 
indication for more, rather than less, nourishment, with seleo 
tion as to quality, rather than diminution as to quantity, 
the shorter essential fevers a few days' starvation cannot doij 
much harm, and may even be of great service with a cert 
claes of patients. But suppurative fever for instance, whether'^ 




FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 343 

of tubercular or other origin, especially if chronic, wc feed 
to the largest limit ; and we do this because we treat the con- 
dition and not the disease, individualizing our cases. Since 
our knowledge of gastric cliemistry has been enriched by the 
adaptation of the soft catheter to another hoUow viseua at the 
opposite extremity of the abdomen, a more complete explana- 
tion has been afforded for the fact which we knew by practical 
experience before, that gastric digestion is often weakened in 
the febrile state. But the same practical experience teaches 
us that it is not always so, or very materially so, and when 
theory and practice conflict, the former must prevail. Have 
we not fully escaped from the domination of the old doctrine 
as to the lowering treatment of inflammation, or are there 
valid reasons why we should be less bold in feeding oui- 
typhoid patients than our chronic febrile consumptives? 
Three such reasons deserve special consideration. In the first 
place, typhoid is far more frequently a self-limited disease 
than is phthisis ; but the fact of a self-limitation does not seem 
to me to warrant us in underfeeding, for the less the patient 
loses the less does he require to regain. In the second place, 
typhoid has constant intestinal lesions which may bleed or 
perforate, and which may be accompanied by a general 
catarrhal state of the intestinal tract. I may perhaps add 
here that diarrhtea ia not nearly as constant a symptom in 
typhoid fever as the hooks lead students to believe. In at 
least 50 per cent, of my hospital cases no diarrhcra was pres- 
ent at any time. We must therefore have reference to the 
local intestinal lesions as well as to the general state. In 
a disease of such long course it is impossible to prevent acci- 
dents by putting the bowels in splints, even if it were de- 
sirable to do so. More or less peristalsis must go on, and 
waste matter must pass over the ulcerated surfaces; and liow 
deep or extensive the ulcerated surface may be in any par- 
ticular case no symptom or group of symptoms enables us to 
measure. Hence, it seems rational, quite apart from the 
fever, to withhold from the diet any articles the residue of 
which is liable to irritate either the mucous membrane in 



344 



DIET IN DISEASE 



general or the ulcerated portion in particular. This would 
seem a fair explanation for the popularity of milk as a diet 
for typhoid, containing as it does a large proportion of water, 
and every principle necessary to nutrition, so combined as to 
make relatively small demands on the digestion of most per- 
sons, and leaving a residue which, though notoriously large, 
Is not mechanically irritating. The objection to milk is that 
it is repugnant to a few persons, and becomes either repugnant 
or monotonous to a considerable number sooner or later. It 
is not necessary here to specify the many expedients which 
may and often must be resorted to to overcome this objection, 
and in some cases to render it digestible whether palatable or 
not. Milk is likely to maintain a very important, perhaps 
leading place in the diet of tj'phoid, as well as of other dis- 
eases and conditions. For a number of years I adhered aa 
strictly as possible to an exclusively milk diet in typhoid 
fever until at least a week had elapsed from tlie date of the 
first normal evening temperature. I closed my ears to the 
clamors of adults, and my eyes and heart to the tears of 
children, as I now believe, unnecessarily. Thirdlj', it was 
only comparatively recently the general opinion of the pro- 
fession that relapse is or may be due to errors in diet. I 
well remember the time when a fresh access of fever lod my 
teachers and me to carefully inquire into the kindness of 
officious friends. It was often proved that forbidden fruit 
actually or metaphorically had been brought in by a visitor, 
and this was an entirely satisfactory explanation. When 
proof could not be had, the fact of relapse was strong pre 
sumptive evidence of sin. We know better now, and wfaUA*^ 
we recognize that errors in diet may produce fever, as may 
fatigue or excitement in convalescence from any severe dis- 
ease, we do not believe that they can start up a fresh invasion 
of bacilli from within. One of the things which set me 
thinking on this question of the diet in typhoid was the 
favorable course run by several acute febrile cases for whom I 
ordered a full diet because they were weak; believing at the 
time of so doing that typhoid conld be excluded. 



d, but being JH 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 345 

forced to the conclusion later that only typhoid fever could 
explain the whole course of the disease. These patients did 
perfectly well, were happier and convalesced more rapidly 
than my recognized typhoid cases fed exclueively on milk. 
For five years now, I have been enlarging the diet of my 
typhoid cases, and have seen no reason to regret this course, 
but, on the contrary, found cause for satisfaction. 

During the twelve years, 1886 to 1897 (both inclusive), 
380 cases of typhoid fever have come under my personal care 
in the Massachusetts General Hospital. From 1886 to 1893, 
233 eases were treated under a milk diet, with a mortality 
of 10 per cent. From 1893 to 1897, 147 cases have been 
treated under a much more extended diet with a mortality of 
8.1 per cent. I know well the liability to reach false conclu- 
sions in reasoning from too small figures in a disease like 
t}'phoid fever. And it is also true that water has been used 
more efficiently of late than in former years. But I can 
see nothing in my figures to contravene my observation that 
an enlarged diet has not been injurious. I would not be 
understood as advocating an indiscriminate diet. My plea 
is simply for treating the patient rather than the disease; 
for feeding him with reference to his digestive power rather 
than solely or mainly with reference to his fever; for the 
view that the danger of accidents from the local intestinal 
ulceration is not increased by allowing him to partake of 
articles which leave no irritating residue, and which cautious 
trial shows are digested without disturbance or discomfort. 
At one end of the scale are the cases with such irritability 
or weakness of the stomach as to lead to the unfortunate term 
gastric fever, or those with pronounced diarrhcea and un- 
digested food in the stools; at the other end are those more 
numerous cases with clean tongue and a desire for food. 
Between the two is every gradation. The life of the former 
may depend on the skill and ingenuity of the doctor, as- 
sisted by the intelligent devotion of the nurse. The com- 
fort and the duration of disability of all others may be 
materially modified for good by careful study and wise in- 



346 



DIET IN DISEASE 



dividuajization of our cases. A long list of permiMible ar- 
ticles, from which seiection can he made for different caseSj 
and for the same case at different times under varying cir- 
cumstances, can be given. That which I append makes no 
claim to completeness, but is meant merely to be suggestive 
and illustrative: 

1. Milk, hot or cold, with ot witiout salt, diluted with lime water, 
soda, water, Apollinarla, Vichj; peptogenic and peptoniaed milk; 
cream nnd water (i. e., lesa albumin), milk with white of egg, alip 
buttermilk, kumjas, matzoou, milk whey, milk with tea, coSee, 

2. Soups: beef, veal, chicken, tomato, potato, oyster, mutton, ■_ 
bean, squash ; carefully strained and thickened witll rice (powdered]f3 
arrowroot, flour, milk or cream, egg, barley. 

3. Horlick'B food, malted milk, camipeptoDe, bovinine, somatoie. ' 

4. Beef Juice; 

5. Gruels: strained cornraeal, crackers, flour, barl^-water, 
wat«r, albumin, water with lemon-juice. 

8. Ice cream. Water ice. 

7. Eggs, soft boiled or raw, egg-nog. 

8. Finely minced lean meat, scraped beef. The aoft part of i 
oysters. Soft crackers with milk or broth. Soft puddings withot 
Toisins. Soft toast without crust. Blanc-mange, wine jelly, i 
sauce and macaroni. 

TOKSILITIS AND VJTSSI 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. These diseases require no special 
in the acute stage, beyond giving food in such fluid form 
can be moat easily swallowed. The pain caused by this act 
is often so extreme that it is advisable to concentrate all food, 
to lessen the number of necessary acts of deglutition. Meat 
juice, peptonoids, beaten eggs and brandy, may be added 
good milk. Plain vanilla ice cream may be given. Its 
nesa is sometimes soothing to the pharynx. 

Holding cracked ice in the mouth before swallowing 
sometimes annul the pain momentarily, or in extreme cases 
the pharynx and tonsils may be sprayed with cocaine, and the 

'W. Oilman Thompioo. M.D. : " Prscli™! Dietetic!," 
AppletQD A Co. 



Meat ' 



JM h_ 




FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 347 

period of temporary aofethesia may be utilized for swallowing 
considerable nourishment. This is rarely necessary, for un- 
less the patient is emaciated by previoua serious illness, he is 
not apt to be in need of much food for a day or two. In bad 
cases of suppurative tonsilitis the strength suffers more, and 
stimulants may be given by the rectum if deglutition is in- - 
possible. 

After all forms of tonsilitis ^here is apt to be considerable 
auffimia, and the patient for a week or two should eat 
abundantly of animal food. Egg-nog and milk punches are 
often needed for tlie first few days of convalescence. 

DIFHTHEBIA 
Thompson > 

Dietetic Treatment. "Alimentation occupies the first 
place in the general treatment" (Trousseau), Throughout 
the active stage of the disease, while the fever lasts, there is 
difficulty in swallowing. All food must be given in fluid 
form, of which milk is the beet, or if, as sometimes happens, 
semi-solid material is more easily swallowed, the food must 
be thickened with cream, gelatin, eggs, or farinaceous articles ; 
or Dry Peptonoids Soluble, malted milk, etc., may be added 
for this purpose to other foods. The use of pineapple juice 
is recommended because it contains an enzyme which belongs 
to the proteolytic group. 

The diet should consist chiefly of nutritious beef or chicken 
broth and beef tea, egg albumin, egg-nog, milk, and milk 
punch. Plain vanilla ice cream is nutritious, and if not too 
sweet, it is well borne, and is frequently ?ery grateful to the 
inflamed throat. Simple farinaceous foods, such as arrow- 
root, thoroughly cooked rice, soft cream toast, and gruels, 
may be taken. Continued disgust for food is a very bad 
prognostic sign, and every effort must be made to counteract 
it by offering variety. When the child is unable to swallow 
on account of pain in accumulation of membrane in the 

■W. Oilm»u Thomp^n, M,D.: -'PtaeliMl Dietetics." New York. D. 



848 DIET IN DISEASE 

throat, forced feeding with a nasal or stomach tube may's 
better than nutrient enemata, 

PHEHMOHIA 

Thompsoii 1 

Dietetic Treatment. T!ie indications for treatment are to 
give a light diet, which will not excite the cough in swallow- 
ing, or IncreaBC dyspncea by, distention of the stomach, or 
augment the enfeeblement of the heart action by overtaxing 
the digestive powers. Vomiting should be especially guarded 
against, and if nausea exists, efforts should be made at once 
to control it. It ia not necessary to keep the patient upon a 
rigid milk diet, but if milk ia well borne, it ia advisable to 
give nothing else while the acute symptoms last; otherwise, 
whey, meat juice, broths, and egg albumin may be allowed. 
Starchy and saccharine food must be withlield. Cold drinks 
are both acceptable and beneficial to the patient, and water 
plain or aerated, such as ApoUinaris or soda water, may bo 
drunk in considerable quantity. It is believed by some au- 
thorities that the activity of the kidneys may be thus pro- 
moted, and that the poison which occasions the constitutional 
symptoms of the disease may be better eliminated. There are 
cases, however, among persons with robust circulation, in 
which the onset is very sudden and violent. The pulse ia 
full and bounding, and the heart is greatly overworked by 
the effort to propel a large volume of imperfectly aerated 
blood. In such instances the addition of large quantities of 
fluid to the circulation, besides what is actually required for 
nutrition, may have the effect of still further straining the 
heart. 

It is stated that carbonated waters reduce tie viscidity of 
the sputum, which is often very tenacious. 

The diet should be kept fluid until defervescence has oc- 
curred, with a normal temperature and commencing disap- 
pearance of the exudation — in fact, it is well to prolong 

'■Pmotienl Dielelict." New York. 




FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES J49 

the fluid diet for three or four days after the temperature 
has become normal, in order to make sure that a relapse of 
the fever is not likely to follow. In those cases in which 
resolution is postponed, and the patient becomes more and 
more feeble, although the temperature may be nearly of quite 
normal, it may be desirable to give a little properly prepared 
solid food somewhat earlier, and scraped beef, with toast, or 
a soft-cooked egg may be added to the milk diet. 

During the entire period of convalescence the diet must 
be very nourishing and of easy digestioii; milk may still be 
given, and after slowly returning to the regulation three meals 
a day (see Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid Fever, p. 
339, patients do well to take milk punch, or egg-nog, or a 
glass of wine and a biscuit three or four times a day in the 
intervals. 

Alcohol is exceptionally well borne, and it undoubtedly 
serves both as a food and a support to the overworked heart. 
The fact that it is thoroughly oxidized in the circulation or 
tissues is demonstrated by the large quantities which patients 
can often digest and absorb without toxic symptoms. Doses 
may be thus tolerated which in health would ordinarily pro- 
duce drunkenness. In alcoholic subjects who have been drink- 
ing up to the time of the onset of the disease, it is indispen- 
sable to continue the use of alcohol, for the sudden withdrawal 
of its stimulating effect on the organism may give rise to 
rapid collapse. In aged and constitutionally weak persons it 
is also important that its use should be begun early in con- 
siderable quantities. 

In extreme cases as much ae an ounce every two hours, or 
twelve ounces in the day, may be given with benefit, but 
ordinarily from sis to eight ounces will sufBce. There are 
other cases found among robust subjecta who do not need 
euch stimulating, and possibly may not require alcohol at 
aih Th& custom now in vogue of prescribing other forms of 
cardiac stimulants, such as strychnine and vasodilators, like 
nitroglycerin, makes the employment of excessive doses of 
alcohol less imperative. It should always be remembered 



35(1 DIET IN DISEASE 

that it is undesirable to produce toxie symptoms of alcoholiBin 
in pneumonia, as well aa in any other disease. So long as 
the pulse is slowed and its force strengthened, the use of 
alcohol may be regarded as beneficial; but if delirium is in- 
creased, and the odor of whiskey or brandy is strong in the 
breath an hour or two after it has been given, it is an indi- 
cation that the patient is receiving more than is desirable, 
and the dosage should he reduced. From its serving as a 
fuel, and thereby saving tissue waste in the muscles, the free 
use of alcohol in pneumonia undoubtedly saves many lives. 

BBOITCHO-FBEUHONIA 

Thompson i 
Dietetic Treatment. Broncho- pneumonia is always a very 
critical disease, and the utmost care is required in nursing 
and feeding. The diet should consist of such articles as 
meat juice, predigested milk, and egg albumin. Stimulation 
is early required, and in considerable quantity. Brandy or 
whiskey, sweetened with a little sugar, and cold water, should 
be systematically given, especially to young children, who 
are unable to make their want of drink known. Hot milk and 
Vichy, in the proportion of one part of Vichy to two of 
milk for older children, or half-and-half for young infants, 
may have the effect of loosening the tenacious mucous and 
easing the cough. If there is any tendency to flatulency, 
aerated waters had better be avoided. When the disease oe- 
cuia in children the diet should be adapted to foster the 
strength and tas the digestive organs as little as possible. 
At first food should be given every two hours, and milk is 
usually all that is required. Later it may be alternated with 
or supplemented by egg albumin, expressed meat juice, plaia 
beef or mutton broths, arrowroot, or other gruels. 



For mumps no special diet is required, beyond the neces- 
aity of giving fluids or soft food while the swelling of the 

■W. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: ■■PrnoticBl Dlstollci." Now Ygtli. ft. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 3B1 

parotid glands and fever last. The suggfstiona for the di 
tetic treatment of tonsilitia apply to this disease. Amemia 
is apt to be extrtnie durmg L-ouvaleseence, and meat should 
■therefore be plentifully supplied. CocJ-liver oil is very ap- 
propriate in protracted convalescence. 

WHOOPIBO COTTOH 
Thompson i 
In whooping cough the paroxysms of coughing are ao 
severe as to give rise to vomiting, and in bad cases they are 
exeited hy taking food which does not have an opportunity 
to become assimilated, and nutrition may suffer very seriously 
in consequence, adding to the general exhaustion which 
accompanies the disease. All food must be made easily as- 
similable. It is best to give food regularly in moderate quan- 
tity at each time, and it should be predigested if neces- 
sary. Pancreatinised milk, kumyss, the prepared amylaceous 
foods, cream toast, eggs, junket, chicken broth, malted farina- 
ceous foods, custard, milk puddings, gruels thickened with 
meat extracts, and stimulants in tlie form of egg albumin in 
sherry, egg-nog or milk punch, are recommended for patients 
who vomit solid food. The worst cases require nutrient 
enemata, as exhaustion becomes critical. 

siET rsr TUBEKcniosis, especially puluoitaet constthp- 

TIOP 

Before we learned of the contagious character of this affec- 
tion, and its dependence on the tubercle bacillus, it was the 
custom to regard tuberculosis as a disease of nutrition, curable 
only by abundant feeding — all that a patient could tolerate 
— and especially feeding with fats and mineral matter. Even 
in modern times the custom of overfeeding ia largely re- 
sorted to, and when the patient has but little appetite, the 
stomach sound is often used to give large quantities of con- 
centrated liquid food, perhaps predigested. Many physicians 
strongly disapprove of this practice, claiming that it is utterly 

'W. Giim.n ThompBoo, M.D.: ■■Priclical Dielelici." Naw York. D. 
AppleloD A Co. 



1 



353 



DIET IN DISEASE 



irrational and tlirows an eooi'mous amount of extra work rt*' 
ttie organs of digestion, assimilation and elimination. 

It is as true, as ever, that a full diet antagonizes the dis- 
ease. A tuberculous subject or one likely to become bo, is not 
capable of much physical exertion, and save in the hectic 
fever stage, has not much temperature. The poison of the 
disease deprives him of a natural appetite, and unless he is 
able to assimilate a normal amount of food, he loses flesh 
progressively, as in any other affection with loss of appetite 
or indigestion. Hence his diet does not differ much from 
that of the convalescent in the composition of food; but 
on account of the enfeebled appetite and digestion the in- 
dividual articles best borne are those used in severe indiges- 
tion from any cause. That is, they are to be concentrated, 
bland, and as varied as possible. As in dyspepsia, the pa- 
tient does best on small and frequent meals. 

Considerable use can be made of millc, cream, buttermilk, 
korayss, etc. The remariiable and inosplicable curative effects 
of a certain amount of fat in tlie diet should never be for- 
gotten. The frequent repugnance to fat has in fact been 
connected with the development of disease. This distaste 
does not usually extend to cream, butter and salad oil, and 
many forms of emulsions of fat with or without hypophoa- 
phitea have a deserved reputation. So important is a cer- 
tain amount of fat that many physicians have it rubbed into 
the skin and even injected subcutaneously. The patient is 
not limited to a fixed daily quantity, hut is given as much as 
he can tolerate. A certain amount of alcohol in some form 
is so well borne in tuberculosis as to make it a dietetic article 
of value. It is probable that both fat and alcohol act by 
protecting the protein. Both have a high caloric value, so 
that the amount of other nutriment can be restricted, and 
should consist largely of eggs, milk and an occasional piece 
of tender meat. 

For an average consumptive, without fever, but with no 
desire for food, six small meals may he given daily. 



J 



FEVEUS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 353 

1. 8 A. M. Milk, taken slowly, two glaBses, with a roll or 
toast and butter and a little marmalade. 
3. 10 A. M. Milk punch, taken slowly. 

3. 1 P. M. A course dinner may be given for the sake of 
variety: cup of broth, a few bites each of fish, beef, potato 
and anything else craved as an entree (as a bit of smoked 
tongue). Also a mouthful or two of some kind of dessert. 
The patient may aid the appetite by taking wine, or some 
form of malt liquor. 

4. 4 p. M. Two glasses milk slowly sipped. 

5. 7 p. M. Like dinner, but much smaller. A plate of 
soup, a chop and a little preserve with a glass of wine. 

6. Bed time. Two glasses of milk slowly sipped. 

In this way up to S500 calories may be taken without over- 
feeding. If a patient technically tuberculous, but with good 
appetite and digestion can take 3000 to 3500 calories daily 
without discomfort, he may do so, even though his quiet life 
would not otherwise make such a quantity desirable. The 
fat and alcohol which help so materially to swell the number 
of calories tend to fortify the body against the progress of 
the disease. 

On the other hand, patients in, advanced or confirmed 
phthisis can hardly be saved by any plan of feeding. They 
often suffer from severe complications like incessant diarrhoea 
or laryngeal phthisis which make any plan of feeding difBcult, 
Each case, therefore, must he a law to itself. The modem 
custom is to feed them all they can tolerate, especially of 
solid food, to supply energy, for the paroxysms of coughing 
and the exertion necessary to dress and get about in the out- 
door air, 

DIET: Soups, — Turtle or oyster soup, mutton, clam or chicken 
broth, purfe of barley, ri«, peas, beans, cream of celery or tomatocB, 
whole beef tea, peptanised milk gruel. 

Fish. — Alt kinds of fresh fiah, boiled or broiled, ofHters or clams, 
raw, roasted or broiled. 

Meats, — Itare roast beef or mutton, lamb chops, ham. fat bacon, 
sweetbreads, poultry, game, tender ateaka, hamburger steak rare. 



354 DIET IN DISEASE 

Eggs. — Every way except fried. 

Farinaceous, — Oatmeal, wheaten grits, mush, hominy, rice, whole 
wheat bread, com bread, milk toast, biscuits, muffins, gems. 

Fats. — Cream, butter, olive oil. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes, baked, boiled or creameu, string * beans, 
spinach, onions, asparagus, tomatoes, green peas, all well cooked, 
cresses, lettuce (alone or with oil dressing), celery. 

Desserts. — Farina, sago, tapioca, apple or milk pudding, floating 
island, custards, baked or stewed apples with fresh cream, cooked 
fruits, rice with fresh cream. 

Liquids. — Fresh milk, cool, warm, or peptonised, cocoa, chocolate, 
buttermilk, pure water, tea, coffee, Liquid Peptonoids. 

AVOID. — Fried foods, salt fish, hashes, gravies, veal, pork, carrots, 
parsnips, cabbage^ beets, turnips, cucumbers, macaroni, spaghetti, 
sweets, pies, pastry, sweet wines* 



CHAPTER XV 

DIET IN DISORDEES OF NTTTIlinOir 
DIET IK DIABETES 

It is commonly believed tliat diabetes should be managed 
dietetically by a sugar-and-starch-free regimen, carried to 
Buch a degree that excesa of sugar no longer appears in the 
urine. As a matter of fact, such teaching may be very mis- 
leading. A diabetic, in the early stages at least, inust lead 
a fairly active life, and requires the usual number of calories 
for such living. If Bugars and starches are removed wholly 
from the diet, the requisite calories must be derived from 
protein and fat, and this may prove a strain both on the 
desire for food and its digestion and utilization. It is there- 
fore rational to allow a certain percentage of carbohydrates, 
as they occur in such common articles of food as bread, 
cereals, potatoes, etc., even if they favor the appearance of 
sngnr in the urine. We know that in this disease, the starch 
and sugar in the diet becomes a poison if carried beyond a 
certain stage. The tissues then become saturated with 
saccharine products, and readily succumb to chance infec- 
tions, the microbes of which behave as they do in sweetened 
culture media. But in a vigorous subject leading an active 
life, there is always a point within which the bodily activities 
are sufficient to oxidize most of the carbohydrate intake; and 
a certain amount of escape of excess products in the urine is 
then relatively insignificant. 

A characteristic diet is aa follows : 

(a) First Breakfast. This should consist of lean and fat 
meat, such as occurs naturally in ham or bacon. For a bev- 
erage we may give coffee sweetened with saccharine. If there 
is a craving for bread, starch-free gJuten bread should be 
added. 

3fi5 



366 DIET IN DISEASE 

(b) Second Breakfast. Cream, eggs, beef juice, kumyss, 
or other liquid or semi-liquid food. 

(c) Noon Meal. A course dinner, beginning with broth 
enriched with an egg, meat, or bits of green vegetable. To 
this should be added small portions of fish, roast, entree, game, 
etc. As extras, salad, cheese, etc. Wine, etc. A small 
amount of bread and butter and potatoes if craved. 

First Evening Meal. Coffee and cream, sweetened with 
saccharine. An egg added if craved. 

Second Evening Meal. This, usually served at bed time, 
is meant to give the patient a chance to make up for de- 
ficiencies. He may indulge especially in sapid food, as fish, 
oysters, clams, caviare, sardines, etc., with plenty of salad 
vegetables. Bread and butter, cheese, nuts, etc., if craved 
during the meals of abstention may be given if allowed. 

The foregoing menu is intended for those stages of the 
disease in which the patient profits by some use of carbohy- 
drates. With the advance of the affection, a point is reached 
at which such foods are actually pernicious. It then becomes 
a problem to nourish these individuals with a diet practically 
free from sugars and starches. It is only necessary for the 
nurse to have at hand tables of food containing the exact 
percentage of carbohydrates; for in this way she may protect 
the sufferer. 

A point is reached at last in which a certain excess of carbo- 
hydrates may precipitate a fatal termination. 

DIABETIC DIET OP BELLEVUE HOSPITAL i 

Meat. — Fat beef, mutton, ham and bacon. 

Fish. — Fresh fish, salted codfish, canned salmon, sardines, oystera 
and clams. 

Farinaceous, — Gluten bread and biscuits. 

Vegetables. — String beans, spinach, lettuce with olive oil and 
vinegar, cabbage, cucumbers, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, asparagus, 
celery, watercress, radishc?, pickles and olives. Cream cheese. 

Dessert. — Custards, jellies and creams (without sugar), walnuts, 
Brazil nuts and pecans. 

Drinks. — Tea or coffee without sugar, water and buttermilk. 

^Diet used at Bellevue Hospital, New York. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 357 

DIABETIC DIET OF FRESBTTEBIAH HOSPITAL l 

Buttermilk, kumysB, beef tea, coffee, cocoa, tea, saccharine 
in lien of sugar, clams (thin soup), iish, poultry, beef, mutton, 
bacon, eggs, string beans, cabbage, tomatoes, lettuce, flpinach 
greens, lemons, apples, oranges, strawberries. 

No milk or sugar. 

DIABETIC DIET OF THE HASSACHUSETTB QENEBAL EOSFITAX : 
DIET.— Meats of all kinds (escept livev), flsh except lobsters or 
oysters, poultry, gamo, eggs, cheesp, butter, lettuce, celery, cucum- 
bers, watercress, dandeliana, young onions, cabbago, caullfloirer, 
Hpinaeli, beet-topa, string beans, artichokea, filberta, musbrooms, 
almonds, butternuts, walnuts, cocoa nut, sour oranges, grape fruits, 
currants, alkaline water?. 

AVOID. — Sugar, syrup of all kinds, potatoes, beets, peas, parsnips, 
carrots, beans, arrowroot, aagra, tapioca, oatmeal, barley, sweet fruits, 
chocolate, cider, malt liquors, champagne, sparkling or sweet wines 
and milk. 

STRICT SUOAB-FREE DIET = 

(Diabetic Diet) 

Diabetic Diet (Strict — Sugar-free). Contains about 20 gms. of 

carbohydrates, calories 2600, proteid 110 cms. 

Breakfast. — -Bacon, 100 gms.; eggs, 2; Jrange, 1; coiTee with saecha- 

rine and cream. 11 a. m.. Cheese: cream or Swiss, 50 gms. 
Xoon. — Beef, veal, lamb or chicken, 100 gms. ; lettuce or tomato salad 
with oil; spinach, onions, cabbage or cauliflower, olives; cus- 
tard made of eggs and cream with saccharine or ice cream 
made the same way. 4 p. m., Soft cooked egg with butter. 
Supper. — Fish, 100 gms. ; cucumber salad with oil ; asparagus or beet 
tops; mushrooms, nuts; give all cream and butter possible. 
Vary diet within above limits. 6(1 per cent, centrifugal creant | 
is j^ed, dilijted^mth;wat^. J _ ^y. t ,' '. ^ ' "I^'T P 
At start give above diet With addition ofSOO gms. breaS. 
After two to four days, decrease bread gradually 100 gms. — 
50 gms. to strict diet. 

If acidosis increases with strict diet, give large doses of 
soda. Control in this way, and by changing diet. 

If patient has increasing acidosis on strict diet add soda 8 



353 



DIET IN DISEASE 



02. a day, try method of starvation one day, vegetable dii 
(no carbohydrate) one day, oatmeal, 350 grammes one day, 
alternating. The same plan may be tried if there is failure 
to get sugar-free urine on strict diet; but first try plan of 
cutting down protein on strict diet, replacing protein with 
more cream and butter, as sugar is made from protein. Keep 
on strict diet one month after using sugar-free; then add 
bread 35 gms., etc. J 



CHKOmC DIABETES DIET 

Soupsi or broth of beef, chicki 



urtle (not thickened ' 



itton, vea^fl 
ith any farinaceous 



DIET.— Soupi 
ojBtera, clams, terrnpin 
Hubstanf^ea) . beef ti 

Fiak. — Shell Gab and ail kinds of flab, freab, Baited, dried, pickled 
or otherwise preserved (no dressing containing flour). 

Eggs.-^ In any way most acceptable. 

Meats. — Fat beef, mutton, ham or bacon, poultry, gweetbreada, 
calf's head, Hauaage, kidneys, pig's feet, tongue, tripe, game (all 
cooked free of Hour, potatoes, bread or crackers). 

Fart?wceous.— Gluten porridge, gluten bread, gluten gems, gluten 
biscuits, gluten wafers, gluten griddle cakes, almond bread or cakes, 
bran bread or cakes. 

Vegetables. — String beans, spinach, beet-tops, chicory, kale, let- 
tuce, plain or dressed with oil and vinegar, cucumbers, onions, toma- 
toes, mushrooms, asparagus, oyster plant, celery, dandelions, cresses, 
radishes, pickles, olives. 

Desserts. — Custarda, jellies, creams (without any sugar)', walnuts, 
almonds, filberts, Brazil nuts, oocoaniits, pecans. 

Drinks. — Tea or coffee (without any sugar), pure water, pepto- 
nised milk, buttermilk. 

AVOID. — Liver, sugars, sweets or starches of any kind, wheaten 
bread or biscuits, com bread, oatmeal, barley, rice, rye bread, arrow- 
root, sago, macaroni, tapioca, vermicelli, potatoes, parsnips, beets, 
turnips, peas, carrots, melons, fruits, puddings, pastry, pies, ices, 
honey, jams, sweet or sparkling wines, cordials, cider, porter, lagerj 
chestnuts, peanuts. 

ETIBSTITTTrES TOE STABCH AND BTTOAS 
Gum Qlulen Flour can be made into bread and a great 
dishes, and is the most satiafactory substitute for the wheat floa 
bread or bread in common use, and the effects are particularly r 
ticeable in the reduction of sugar in the daily tests. 

Sweetina is in the pure crystal form, and is made into a syrup b 



^m Sweetini 




DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 

adding cold water. DUtUled wat*r ja preferable. It ia sold in small 
bottlea at 25 cents each, the coiittnts of which is equal to eight pound* I 
of sugar in sweetening power. 

One bottle of cryatala makea one pint of syrup, of which i 
spoonful is equal to a cupful of sugar. 

Sweetina is an improved product from coal tar. 

A DIABETIC CHAEI 
Joslin and Ooadall i 

The intelligent management of a case of diabetes melUtia 1 
requires frequent comparisons between the diet, the urinary 
analyses and the weight of the patient. These data are often 
printed or written down in four or five different places, and 
the lahor of uniting them is so great that it is seldom at- 
tempted. Any accurate study of a case ia tlms extremely 
difficult, and in hospitals past records are almost useless. To 
facilitate the treatment of diabetic patients and to eliminate 
some of the annoying sources of error, we have used a chart 
for some years upon which some of these facts were recorded. 
Our chart was designed chiefly for the beneiit of the physician, 
in contrast to the charts in use in various German clinics, 
which have a broader application and are of direct help not 
only to the physician, hut also to the nurse and the patient 
as well. By this latter arrangement tlie chart becomes the 
nurse's record, and upon it the nurse writes what the patient 
actually eats. We have attempted to combine the two meth- 
ods on the following chart, and hope that it will be found 
helpful and suggestive in the treatment of diabetic patients. 

Space ia reserved upon the chart for the Doctor's orders 
and the nurse's record, as well as the urinary analyses. 
There is given, in addition, a statement of the foods com- 
monly allowed in a strict diabetic diet, with the percent of 
carbohydrates in other foods which are occasionally em- 
ployed, 

■A Diabetic Chiirt b; Elliult P. Joilln, U.D., and Hair* W. OoodilL 
U ri Rn.Tnn. Msia. (Rpnrinlvil Imm the, Hnnton Medjul and Sarelcil 
), leOB.) D. 0. Henth & 



aao 



DIET ly DISEASE 



I 



-3 



5 S 



6 — ^ 



:2:i "* 



tc 




^ 




*ODH^X 




DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



361 



es 

o 



» 

•d 



« 
o 
A 
A 

o 



<*• 

-a 




»4 

QQ 












a 

g 

O 




M 

n 




U 

1 

o 




5 





o 



•a 

tf A » g « « 

o,a « h o o 

P4 0Qnonn 






d 
I 



&S'5« 



d 

« 

n 



H fl 



a 



OD 



+ « 

12 c 

o 



« 

• a V d V ® 
^ a£ S *> h S'Sj^ 



,d*S 0) 
o _ 
use d 



"9 



12 -i^ d 



h es • » 0) »5d _d «5 tS 



CI h d 



O 



d 

« 



+ a 

esJ2 »£ 



• « S «> c3 S 
*C K E C JS'3 9 





5 

d 



8 



S 



»4 



d 

9> 



« O^ MS •»> 



d 

e 

4« 



9 



ffl g. 

a 



d^^ 



S ^^ 




o 






362 DIET IN DISEASE 

MENUS FOB THE DIABETIC 

SmCMER 

SUNDAY 

Bkeakfast 

Olmten Breakfast Food, Scalloped Eggs, 

Oluten Muffins, Coffee. 

Dinner 

Asparagus Soup, 
Fricassee Chicken and Dumpling, 
Creamed Oreen Onions, Sliced Tomatoes, 

Beet Greens, Cucumber Salad, 

Baked Custard, Oum Gluten Bread Rolls. 

Supper 

Chicken Salad, 

Pimento Cheese Oluten Sandwiches, 

Gluten Nut Cake, Tea. 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 
Asparagus Tip Omelet, Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, 

Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Baked Gluten Noodles, Ripe Olives and Radishes, 

Gluten Bread, Tea, 

Dinner 

Jellied Chicken Consomme, 

Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

String Beans, Scalloped Tomatoes, 

Egg Salad with Cress, Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Coffee Jelly, Whipped Cream, 

Demi Tasse, Gum Gluten Dainty Fluffs. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gum Gluten Dainty Fluffs and Crea/m, 

Fried Perch a/nd Cresses, 

Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Codfish Croquettes, Gluten Drop Biscuits, 

Sliced Tomatoes, Tea. 



DISORDERS OP NUTRITION 363 

Dinner 

JeUied Consomme, 

Gum Oluten Bread Sticks, 

Scalloped Tomatoes^ Spinach, 

Asparagus Salad, French Dressing, 
Cheese Souffle, Boiled Almond Custard, 

Iced Coffee Oum Gluten Dainty Fluffs, 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Tomato Omelet, 
Gluten Muffins, Coffee, 

Luncheon 

French Gluten Toast, 
String Bean Salad, French Dressing, 
Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, Iced Tea, 

Dinner 

Jellied Tomato Consomme, 

Baked Fish, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Creamed Asparagus, Fried 'Noodles, 

String Beans, 
Pineapple Ice, Demi Tasse, 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Fried Mackerel, Cresses, 

Gluten Bread, Coffee, 

Luncheon 
Scalloped Eggs, Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, 

Olives, Radishes, 

Gluten Cheese Sandwiches, Tea, 

Dinner 

Cream Tomato Soup, 

Broiled Squab on Toast, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Sliced Tomatoes, Spinach, Lettuce Salad, 

Baked Nut Custard, Coffee. 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Granules, Spanish Omelet, 

Oluten Drop Biscuits, Coffee. 



364 DIET IN DISEASE 

Luncheon 

Cheese Puddingy Olives, 

Oluten Lettuce SandvAohes, Tea, 

Dinner 

Cream of Spinach Soup, 

Broiled Shad, 

String Beans, Cucumbers, 

Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Oluten Bread, 
Oluten Fruit Pudding, Coffee. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Oluten Breakfast Food, Fish Croquettes, 

Oum Oluten Bread Sticks, Coffee, 

Luncheon 

Aspic Jelly with Tongue, 

Oluten Lettuce Sandwiches 

Whipped Cream with Nuts on Dainty Fluffs, 

Tea. 

Dinner 

Clam Broth, 

Oum Oluten Bread Sticks, 

Asparagus on Oluten Toast, String Beans, 

Spinach, Baked Onions, 

Lemon Jelly, Oluten Biscuit Crisps, 

Coffee. 

WINTEE 
SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Oluten Breakfast Food, Scrambled Eggs, 

Oluten Toast, Coffee. 

Dinner 
Oysters, Cream Celery Soup, 

Oum Oluten Bread Sticks, 

Boast Beef, Spinach, Brussels Sprouts, 

Celery, Shrimp Salad, Olives, 

Salted Almonds, Baked Custard, 

Oum Oluten Dainty Fluffs, Coffee, 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 365 

Supper 

Cream Cheese Dainty Fluff Sandtoiches, 

Salmon Pudding, 

Oluten Nut Cake, Tea. 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Granules, Parsley Omelet, 

Gluten Muffins, Coffee, 

Luncheon 

Broiled Lobster, Mayonnaise Dressing, 
Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, Tea. 

Dinner 
Consomme, Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, 

Scalloped Gluten Noodles and Celery, 
Creamed Cabbage, String Beans, ' 

Salmx)n Salad with Mayonnaise, 

Pignolia Nuts, Olives, 

Coffee Jelly with Whipped Crea/m, 

Demi Ta^se. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Griddle Cakes, Bacon and Eggs, 

Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Gluten Noodles au Gratin, 

Cream Cheese OAnd Lettuce Salad, 

Gluten Biscuit Crisps, Tea. 

Dinner 

Cream of Onion Soup, 
Roast Mutton, Gum Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Creamed Cauliflower, Spinach, 

Fried Sour Apples, Gluten Cheese Wafers, 

Gluten Brown Betty, Coffee. 

Wia)NESDAY 

Breakfast 

Ham and Eggs, Gluten Muffins, 

Coffee. 

Luncheon 
Clam Broth, Chim Gluten Bread Sticks, 

Scalloped Tomatoes, 
Oluten Tea Biscuits, Tea. 



Z€C DIET IX DISEASE 



Cream of Towtaio Soup, 
Roojft Chickem, Gum Glmtem. Bread StUki, 

Brussels SprouU, Celery, String Beams, 

Oluien Pudding, Coffee, 

THURSDAY 

Bbeakfast 

Fried Gluten Breakfast Food, 
Gluten Pop-Overs, Coffee. 

Luncheon 
Chicken Salad, Sour Pi4^les, 

Gluten Bread, Tea. 

Dinner 
Little Neck Clams, Mutton Chops, 

Oyster Plant, Baked Noodles, 

Sardine Salad with French Dressing, 
Fruit Pudding, Whipped Cream, 
Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, Demi Tasse, 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Porridge, Mackerel with Egg Sauce, 

Gluten Drop Biscuit 8 , Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Scalloped Oyaiers, Gluten Nut Sandiciches, 

Cold SloAJO, Tea, 

Dinner 

Baked Fish, Celery, 

Creamed Cabbage, Asparagus on Toast, 

Tomato Jelly Salad with MayonnaisCy 

Baked Custard, 

Gluten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Breakfast Food, Bacon and Eggs, 

Gum Gluten Bread Rolls, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Fish Croquettes, 
Grape Fruit, Gluten Lettuce Sandvnches, 

Tea, 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 3( 

Dinner 

Oyster Steic, Oum Gluten Bread Biicka, 

Bpinach, Cheese Souffle, 

Ripe OHres, Celery, 

Coffee Junket teith Whipped Cream, Coffee. 

UTHEUIA OR EXCESS 07 UBIC ACID 

Treatment for Uric Acid. Exercise in the open air — 
walk — plenty of fresh air by night as well aa by day. 
Breathe deeply. Batbe often; rub the body thoroughly after- 
ward ; the skin should play an importaiit part in elimination 
of uric acid. 

To prevent the formation of an over supply of uric acid, 
be careful of diet. The first thing, do not eat meat. You 
may eat nuts with salt, fresh ripe fruit; beat of all, apples 
nnpeeled; all cooked fruits, hut very little sugar in them; 
all vegetables that grow above ground (not those that grow 
below ground) : greens are especially good, with good cider 
vinegar. Bread iiia\ be eaten in moderation, graham and 
entire wheat best, good water crackers, cereals of all kinds; 
eggs should be used sparingly, and in severe cases not at all. 
Fish is good, also shellfish. No pastry or sweet cakes; milk 
and cheese may be used freely, also buttermilk. Drink no 
coffee, tea, malt or alcoholic liquors. Drink pure water and 
a great deal of it; sometimes it is well to use lithia tablets. 
ACUTE QOUT 

Dietetic Treatment. During acute attacks the diet must 
be restricted, but the extent of restriction will depend upoa 
age, habits and conditions of the patient. 

Meat and alcohol as a rule are excluded. Aa a rule it is 
best to exclude meat, more especially red meat, and, unless 
especially necessary, forbid alcohol. In old people, with 
feeble circulation, accustomed to the regular and free use of 
alcohol, it may be necessary to allow a small amount. If the 
kidneys be seriously at fault it may be best not even to give 
email amount of alcohol. 

For the young and strong the diet should consist mainly 



368 DIET IN DISEASE 

of farinaceouB Bubatences and broths, made not too etrong, 
Buch as bread and milk, a cup of weak tea with milk, drj 
toast with a little butter, vegetable broths, two ouneea of r pjl k 
with Vichy water ; rice, sago, semoliua or an farinaceous pud- 
ding made without egga. 

He should sip half a pint of hot wat«r twice or thrice 
daily between meals, and barley water and toast water may 
be allowed. After acute symptoms have subsided, boiled fish 
and a little chicken may be given once a day, and nourish- 
ment carefully and gradually increased. 

For old or feeble persons the diet, although kept in same 
lines, must be more supporting; have broths, etc., stronger, 
and beef juice, chicken broth and an egg beaten up in a 
glass of milk once a day. Alcohol may also be necessary. 

In protracted cases it may be necessary to allow more 
nutritious diet, including fish, soup and white meata, as well 
as an ailowance of brandy or whiskey. 
GHBOmC GOUT 
DIET: Soupg. — Clear vegetable brotha, fresh flsh Boup. 
Fish. — Fresh fish bioiled or boiled, raw oyatera. 
Meats, — Eat of all kinds sparingly, game, chicken, fat bacon. 
Farinaceous. — Crackere, dry toast, milk toast, macaroni, graham 
bread or rolls, rye bread, whole wheat bread, or biscuit, cercala. 

Tegetables. — Celery, lettuce, cresses, cticumbera, cabbage, spinach, 
string beans, green peas, mashed potatoes. 

Desserts. — ( All without sugar ) . Plain milk puddings, junket, rieo 
and milk. Stewed fruits. 

Liquids. — Pure water, hot or cold; toast water, buttermilk, milk, 
malted milk, weak tea (no sugar). 

AVOID. — Champagne, aweet wines, malt liquors, cider, coffee, 
tobacco, dried fruits, nuts, cheese, sweets, pastry, pies, spices, rich 
puddings, tried dishes, vinegar, pickles, lemons, rhubarb, mush- 
rooms, asparagus, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, gravies, patties, rich 
Houp, eggs, lobater, salmon, crabs, mackerel, eel, veal, pork, goos«, 
duck, turkey; salted, dried, potted or preserved Bsh or meat (except 
fat bacon). 

ACUTE hheuuatish 

Thompson, t 
Dietetic Treatment. While the fever lasts and other eymp- 



^ 






isn Thompiaa 



M.D.: 



I DIbH 



r York. D, 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 369 

toms are acute, auch as pain and swelling of the joints, the 
patient should be put upon a fluid diot. The majority of 
cases do best at this time with an exclusive milk or bread- 
and-milk diet. Those patients who cannot take milk, how- 
ever, may be allowed soups and broths flavored with vegetable 
extracts, chicken tea, milk toast, barley or oatmeal gruel, 
clam broth. 

Thirst 33 often a prominent symptom, especially if there 
be much fever, and it is advisable for the patient to drinik 
fluid freely to assist in washing out the waste products from 
the body. Lemonade and slightly acid drinks of various 
kinds, such as dilute phosphoric acid or the effervescent min- 
eral waters, are recommended. Boiled milk and Seltzer or 
Vichy may be drunk, or oatmeal or barley water flavored 
with lemon. Alcohol should be avoided while the acute symp- 
toms last, unless the complication of inflammation of the 
endocardinm or pericardium enfeeble the heart action, if pro- 
longed and anaemia is considerable, alcohol may be given as 
a tonic two or three times a day in the form of a glass of 
claret or Burgundy (one to two ounces), or diluted whiskey. 

During convalescence the appetite is not usually vigorous, 
and it is not necessary to urge the taking of much food at 
first. The diet should be principally farinaceous, but not 
Baccharine. 

Such articles may be given as rice (plain or spiced), arrow- 
root, oatmeal, cornmeal, semolina, wheaten grits, panada, milk 
toast, simple unsweetened puddinga, wine jelly, blanc-mange 
and malted foods. 

The return to solid diet should be gradual, and for a long 
time the patient should abstain from eating meats as well as 
from pastry and sweets. Fagge states that no meat or fish 
should be allowed for at least a week after subsidence of the 
fever and acute symptoms, or, better, for a fortnight, and 
many believe that beef tea is harmful. Meat can undoubtedly 
induce a relapse. 

When convalescence becomes established, eggs, flsb, oysters, 
and white meat of broiled or roasted chickens may be given, 



I 



370 DIET IN DISEASE 

and one or two such vegetables as asparagus, spinach, orl 
Btewed celery, with a. baked apple or fresh fruit, but sweets 
and alcoliol should long be withheld. 

The patient should be fed often, having one or two extra 
lunches during the day, for anemia is apt to prevail for some 
tune, and abundant nutriment is required. 
KHETnUTISU 
Haasachusetts Qeneral HoBpltal 

DIET.— Graham or brown hiead, white bread limited m slice 
daily), corn, granuin, rice, milk, egga, flour, puddings, crackers, 
beans, pens, bU kinds of vegetables (except potatoes and cooked 
tonintoes), rhubarb, fresh fish; butter, cheese, buttermilk, cream, 
alkaline waters, toast. 

AVOID.- — Ked meats, starch or potatoes, white bread, sugars. 

CH&OKIG AHETJKATISM 
DIET: Soup. — Beef tea, chicken and mutton broth in amall 
quantities. 

Fish. — Raw oysters or tlams, white fleshed freah fiali ^broiled or 
boiled. 

Mrat, — Sweetbreads, chicken, tripe, broiled fat bacon or boiled 
ham (all sparingly). 

Farinaceous. — Boston brown bread, com, whole wheat bread, 
cornBtarcb, rice, milk toast, dry toast, graham bread, granum, butter, 
urackerb. 

Vegetables.— All except potatoes and cooked tomatoes. 

UesscTis, — Plain puddings, rhubarb; junket (all without sugar). 

Liquids. — Milk, cream, buttermilk, malted milk, alkaline waters, 
tea, cocoa (no sugar), pure water, plain or with lemon or lime (no 
sugar). 

AVOID. — Red ments, pork, turkey, goose, duck, vea!, fried fish, 
cooked oysters or clams, salted, dried, potted or preserved £ah or 
meats (except ham and bacon). Lobsterfl, crabs, aalmoa, eggs, rich 
pies, made dishes, gravies, potatoes, tomatoes, asparagus, mushrooms, 
rich puddings, candies, nuts, cheese, coffee, cider, malt liquors, wines. 

DIET IS 0BE8ITT 

This ia one of the moat important features of dietetic 
therapy, and is older and better known than any other, prob- 
ably because of its connection with conditioning athletes for 

> Dlel ui«d at the UsiHchuietts General Hoipiial, Boatoa. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 371 

all kinds of contests and also from the cosmetie point of 
view, as auperiluous flesh generally implies advanced years. 
Unlike many other plana of diet it concerns the nominally 
healthy rather than the sick and invalid. 

The old trainer of athletes knew -little or nothing of any 
scientific regimen for reducing adipose tissue. For him re- 
duction of weight was merely a matter of getting rid of 
superfluous water, to be accomplished by sweating, purgation 
and abstinence from fluids. He rejected certain articles of 
diet as " bad for the wind," but this is aa near as he came 
to specializing in diet. Exercise, without profuse perspira- 
tion, meant nothing to him. The steady grind of a worker 
who burns up so much excess fat daily, yet without any un- 
usual degree of perspiration, ia something he took no account 
of. 

Of recent years it has been learned that abstinence, hot 
baths and purgation, are far less efficacious in keeping down 
weight than continuous and vigorous exercise within the fa- 
tigue limit. It is much less a matter of starvation and 
elimination than of a steady oxidation of superiluoua tissue 
by graded and varied exercises extending throughout the day. 
But while constant exercise is the chief essential, it is also 
important to curb the appetite for food and drink, and to 
keep the excretory organs active. Otherwise, in the case of 
novices at least, increased esereise will provoke increased 
appetite for food and drink, so that not a few people gain 
flesh while trying to lose it. 

J)oubtless the best plan for reducing flesh without suffering 
and violence is to do a great amount of work daily, severe 
enough in character to oxidize much body fat, but without 
profuse waste of fluids by sweating, etc. In regard to the 
meals, these should be small, light and as frequent as desired. 
Nothing should be taken to provoke thirst. Any food-article 
whatever which is especially rich in starch, sugar or fat, along 
with alcoholics, must be omitted. Such individuals thrive 
best on toast or biscuit without butter; lean meats, fish and 
eggs; and vegetables which grow above ground. 



372 DIET IX DISEASE 

The selection of food differs bnt little from the diabetic 
regimen, but some carbohydrates are aUowed^ while the fatty 
articles, including milk, permissible in diabetes, are to be 
avoided* Ihe patient is not to be stinted in quantity pro- 
yided he takes the necessanr amount of exercise. He mav 
breakfast freely on eggs, meat and toast, dine on meats and 
salad vegetables, etc. He should take as little fluid as pos- 
sible with his meals, but may quench his thirst between meals. 
By masticating his food thoroughly he materiaUy reduces the 
demand, and does away with eating for the mere sake of eat- 
ing. 

By simple measures of this sort an individual may reduce 
his weight to as great degree as desirable, and the process 
will not be painful but the reverse. He simply oxidizes and 
otherwise utilizes a little more matter than he takes in, and 
thereby prevents a pathological and unsafe accumulation of 
fat. 

DIET: Fish.— All fresh white fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Lean mutton or lamb, beef, chicken, game (sparingly). 

Eggs. — Ck>oked in all ways (not fried). 

Farinaceous. — Dry toast or crusts, stale bread (sparingly). 

Vegetables. — Lettuce, celery, spinach, cresses, asparagus, cauli- 
flowers, white cabbage, onions, tomatoes, radishes, olives. 

Liquids. — Coffee or tea, one cup without milk, cream or sugar; 
pure water one glass, drank slowly after the meal. 

AVOID. — Dark flesh flsh, rich soups, salt fish, veal, pork, sausage, 
fats, potatoes, oatmeal, hominy, macaroni, spices, rice, carrots, beets, 
turnips, parsnips, puddings, pastry, pies, sugar, sweets, cakes, 
^ream, milk, spirituous liquors, beers, sweet nuns, champagne. 



CHAPTER XVT 

DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

AOVTE GASTBITIS 
Einhom > 

During the first or second day of illness it is best not to 
give the patient anything substantial to eat. Strained barley 
or rice water, or weak tea may be taken. On the third day, 
as soon as the appetite reappears, the patient is permitted to 
partake of water soup (bread and hot water) oatmeal or bar- 
ley gruel, rice soup, and perhaps one soft-cooked egg. Later 
on French bread, butter and oysters may be added to the 
dietary. 

If the improvement is steadily progressing the fourth day 
begin with meat once a day, and thus slowly return to the 
nsual bill of fare. 

CHXOHIC QASTBITIS 
Einlioni ^ 

The regulation of the diet is of prime importance in the 
treatment. The dietary to be selected will depend on the 
severity of the Bymptoma. 

At the beginning, therefore, a light diet will be called 
for. The patient should partake of four meals daily. The 
articles of food should be given largely in liquid and semi- 
liquid forms; that ia, milk, kumysa, matzoon, barley, oat- 
meal, and rice soup prepared in milk; chicken soup with an 
egg beaten up in it; soft-cooked eggs, mashed potatoes, scraped 
meat, raw, or boiled, toasted bread, and also French whits 
bread (not too fresh) ; butter; tea and cocoa, 

>M<ii Einhorn, M.D.: " Diuua at the Blomich." New Tglk. Wil- 



374 DIET IN DISEASE 

The quantity of nourishment for each meal should neither 
be excessively large nor too small. 

My own bill of fare for the first week of the treatment is as 
follows : 

Eight o'clock: Calories. 

Two eggs 160 

Two ounces of French white bread 156 

One-half ounce of butter 107 

One cup of tea (100 gm. of tea, .150 gra. milk) 101 

Sugar 10 gm. (3 iiss.) 40 

Half past ten o'clock : 

Kumyss or matzoon or milk, 250 gm. (J viii. y^) 168 

Crackers, 30 gm. (one ounce) 107 

Butter, 20 gm. (3 v.) 163 

Half past twelve o'clock: 

Two ounces of tenderloin steak, or of white meat of chicken . 76 

Mashed potatoes, or thick rice, 100 gm. (J iii. 1/3) 127 

White bread, two ounces 163 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 

One cup of cocoa, 200 gm. (J vi. %) 101 

Half past three o'clock: 

The same as half past ten 438 

Half past six o'clock: 

Farina, hominy, or rice boiled in milk, one plateful, 250 gm. 

(3 viii. 1/3) 440 

Two scrambled eggs 160 

Bread, two ounces 156 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 



2.863 



The patient having been kept on this diet for a week or 
two, the diet must be gradually changed to one suitable for 
the lighter forms of chronic gastritis. Here the following 
rule will apply: The diet sliould correspond as nearly as 
possible to the common mode of living. In this way the dis- 
tribution of the meals should be arranged according to the 
customs prevailing in those places in which the patient lives. 

All food derived from the vegetable kingdom should be 
given in large portions, while the quantity of meat should be 
somewhat limited. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH STSJ 

In order to permit the patient to have a gi-eater variety 
in his food, it is best not to point out a few articles he 
should eat, but to mention only those he should avoid. For- 
bid meat with very tough fibers, meat from too old animals 
or too fresh meat (right after slaughtering), meat that con- 
tains too much fat, like pork; forhid sausages, lobster, sal- 
mon, chicken salad, mayonnaise, cucumbers, pickles, cabbage, 
strong alcoholic drinks like liquors. 

It must be impressed upon the patient to masticate the 
food thoroughly, to eat slowly, not to think of business dur- 
ing meala, and to stop eating before the sensation of satiety 
appears. The latter advice is only necessary in persons who 
are accustomed to high living. 

• •■!■••••• 

Chronic gastric catarrh is frequently combined with con- 
stipation. The diet can be arranged as to facilitate move- 
ment of the bowels. All foods which contain a large per- 
centage of cellulose (undigested matter) increase the quantity 
of fscea, thereby effecting a stronger peristalsis of the larger 
bowel. 

All kind of green vegetables (spinach, asparagus, green 
peas) and rye bread are therefore very suitable. Many or- 
ganic acids poHsesa the property of increasing intestinal peri- 
Btalais. Almost all kinds of f niits contain a certain quantity 
of these organic acids, and act like mild aperients. The use 
of cooked pears, stewed or baked apples, stewed prunes, is in 
many instances effective. Ewald recommends a mistnre of 
two parts of prunes to one part of dried figs. The taste is 
agreeable, and the cathartic action mild. The custom of 
eating an orange in the morning for its laxative effect is well 
known. To these dietary remedies we may also add the use 
of a glassful of either very cold or warm water, or a glass of 
milk in arising, in the fasting condition. 

There are many persons in whom one of these latter means 
produces a good movement of the bowels. 



DIET IN DISEASE 



The diet consists of liquids — milk, milk with strained 
barley, or oatmeal, or rice water; plain water, weak tea and 
peptone {one teaspoon to a cup of water). Debove and 
Esmond have suggested the addition of lactose and of meat 
powder to the milk, in order to make the diet richer in 
nourishment substances. 

Aa a rule, we employ the above-named additions, whieh 
fulfill the same purposes, besides varying the monotonous bill 
of fare. 

First week. During the first week we give the patient half 
a eup (about 100-150 c.c.) of either, every hour. Every- 
thing the patient takes must be neither cold or very warm, 
and should be taken slowly (sipping, or with a spoon). 

Second week. During the second week we order the same 
kind of food, with this difference, that he is nourished every 
two hours, and gets a cupful or a cupful and a half (200 to 
300 c.c.) at a time. 

Occasionally we now allow the patient one raw egg beaten 
up in the milk, once or twice a day. In the beginning of the 
third week we feed the patient every three hours ; he is al- 
lowed barley, farina, and rice (well cooked) in milk, soft- 
cooked eggs, crackers softened in milk, in addition to his 
previous foods; in the third day of the third week we begin 
to give the patient meat, first raw, well scraped, then broiled. 

Thereafter we go over to the ordinary daily diet, exclud- 
ing heavy salads, pastry, raw fruit and the like. 

In the following table I give an outline of diet which I 
ordinarily prescribe in this affection : 

OTTTLinE OF DIET IS OASTKIC TTLCEB 
FrBflT Thbeb Dats 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A.M.: milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

8 " milk, 160 C.C. (Ave ounces) 101 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 377 

9 A. M. : milk, 150 C.C. (Ave ounces) 101 

10 " milk and strained barley water (ftfi, 160 C.C.) 80 

11 " milk, 160 C.C 101 

12 " milk, 160 C.C 101 

1 P. M. : bouillon either alone or with the addition of one to 

two teaspoonfuls of a peptone preparation, 160 

C.C 30 

2 " milk 101 

3 " milk 101 

4 " milk 101 

6 ** milk with strained barley or oatmeal 80 

6, 7, 8, 9 P. M. : milk, 160 C.C 404 



1.402 

Fourth to the Tenth Day 

Number 
of Calories. 

7 A. M. : milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

11 " milk with barley, rice, or oatmeal water, 300 C.C. . 160 
1 p. M. : one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, and one egg beaten 

up in it 80 

3 " milk, 300 CO 202 

5 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

7 " milk with barley water, 300 C.C 160 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



1.410 

Eletenth to the Foubteenth DAT 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M.: milk, 300 C.C 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers softened (one ounce) 100 

11 " milk with barley water, 300 C.C 160 

1 P.M.: one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, one egg, and two 

crackers 180 

3 " milk, 300 C.C, and one egg 282 

6 " milk, 300 C.C, 202 

and two crackers 100 

7 " milk, with barley water 160 

9 '* milk, 300 CO 202 

1.790 



378 



DIET IN DISEASE 



FOUBTEEKTH TO THE SEYBIYTEENTH DAT 



7 
9 

11 
1 



S 



A M. : milk, 300 C.C 

milk, 300 C.C 

and two crackers (one ounce) 

milk with barley, 300 C.C 

M.: scraped meat, 50 gm 



p. 



7 
9 



Number of 
Calories. 

202 

202 

100 

• • • • • «/4^ 

60 



two crackers, one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 100 

milk, 300 C.C. 202 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

one egg (soft boiled) 80 

two crackers 100 

milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

milk, 300 C.C 202 



2.134 
Seventeenth to Twenty-Foubth Day 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M. : two eggs ( soft boiled) 160 

butter, 10 gm 81 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

10 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

1 p. M : lamb chops (broiled) , 50 C.C 60 

mashed potatoes, 50 gm 44 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

butter, 10 gm.; one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 81 

4 '' the same as at 10 a. M 530 

6:30 " milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

2.820 

In cases of ulcer of the stomach presenting a more severe 
type — violent pains, frequent vomiting, inability to take 
food on account of the pains — or after haematemesis, I 
usually have the patient abstain from any food whatever. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 379 

given by the moutli, for a period of five days. The patient 
is then fed by the rectum. This is done in the following way : 
early each morning the patient receives a large enema of 
about a quart of lukewarm water, in which a teaspoon ful of 
conimoQ tablesalt has been dissolved as a cleansing enema. 
About an hour after the patient has emptied tlie injected 
water, the first nourishing enema is given; tliis may consiat 
either of a glassful of milk (about 300 c.C.), in which a raw 
egg has been well beaten and a pinch of salt added, or of a 
cupful of water in which a tablespoon of a good peptone 
preparation haa been dissolved. The temperature of eitlier 
must be about 100° P. Such a nourishing enema is given 
three or four times a day. The quantity of the feeding enema 
is 200-250 c.C, and it is slowly injected by means of a foun- 
tain syringe and a soft-rubber rectal tube. The patient may 
frequently wash his mouth with cold water, and ia allowed 
from time to time to keep a small piece of chopped ice in 
his mouth, and to swallow the melted water. The five days 
being over, the mode of diet is the same as described above 
for tiie ordinary form of ulcer. 

GASTEIC TfLCEH DIET 
Uassaohasetts General Hospital i 

1. Dr. Hewes's Diet for Gastric and Duodenal Ulcer. Two 
oz. milk, 1 Boda cracker (powdered), 1 oz. sugar, every two 
hours. Give two to tliree days, then increase to G-8 oz. milk, 
1-2 oz. sugar, 4 soda crackers, every two hours. Continue 
for two to three weelis, then adopt the following : Eight feed- 
ings in 24 hrs. : (1) milk and crackers; (2) Indian meal 
porridge with cream or salt; (3) potato purfe, jelly; (4) 
milk and whites of two eggs ; (5) soft custard; (6) hot choco- 
late; (7) pea purfe strained through fine wire mesh; (8) 
milk and crackers. 

2. " The Lenhartz Diet." The " Lenhartz diet " begins 
with 100 c.C, milk and one egg daily, in tcaspoonful doses, 

'Diet niPd St the MaBUchnisKt Genenl Hoipilsl, Boitan. 

Dr. Hewm, Physician to Onl-PstleDli, MsKBcfiBietti Genera! Hojpllal. 



380 DIET IN DISEASE 

gradually increaaing until at the end of four weeks a liberal 
mixed diet is allowed, always avoiding coarse vegetables and 
irritating substances. 

The gradual increaae of food appears in the accompanying 
scale. 

In preparing the eggs they are beat«n very light, without 
salt, a small amount of sugar frequently added, the bowl kept 
in a pan of cracked ice. At first the milk is given with 
shaved ice. Some of the milk, eggs, and sugar are made into 
custard on the tenth day. The beef is eeraped and weighed 
after cooking; tlie ham is chopped very fine; occasionally 
lime water has to be added to the milk, and, if large curds 
form, the milk is diluted with barley water. Great care is 
exercised in the transition stages from liquids to Bemi-solidfl 
and finally to full diet. 

Imharti' Met 


s 


1 


i 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 






1 


~2" 


200' 
200 

"300- 


(,PU. 


'""■ 


■""- 


(,«*. 


(,„. 


(,rw. 








































4 


401) 


20 
















5 


MXJ 


:fu 














..^_ 




6 


600 


30 














»J^^H 




7 


















J^^^l 


8 


800 


40 


Hi 


100 










^™ 




8 


900 


40 


70 


100 


20 








^" 


10 


8 


1000 


iO 


70 


^00 


40 










11 


S 


.000 


50 


^00 


40 


50 


20 




■■ 


12 


8 


.000 




70 300 


00 




40 












Continue for 3 weeks 






'^^1 






, J 


A 


tf 


^1 




■ 


■ 


■ 


■ 


■ 


l^^l 




CHAPTER XVII 

DIET IN INTESTINAL DISEASES 

DIET IN STSfEPSIA 

Modern clinical medicine does not recognize such a dis- 
ease as dyspepsia. In a great variety of local and general 
conditions digestion is more or lesa disordered. It may be 
too rapid, too slow, difBcult, imperfect for one or more of 
the classes of foods, or abolished outright. Specialists base 
diets largely on the results of test-meala, so that the diet in 
a given case becomes individualized. If a person with ordi- 
nary Bymptoms of chronic indigestion is to be dieted, and 
the cause of the affection is not known, the regimen for 
chronic gastritis will answer (p. 373). But if in addition 
to indigestion there is unusual irritability of the stomach, the 
diet must consist of most easily digested articles of solid food, 
and if necessary of semi-solid or liquid food. In other words, 
he is dieted like a convalescent from some severe acute dis- 
eaao, or a child at weaning time. 

DIET; Soup. — Ousters and tiiin, clear beef and mutton aoup. 

Fish. — Fresh mackprel, baaa, pereh, shad, cod, raw oysters. 

Heals. — Game, ewcetbreads, tender meats, chopped meats, broiled 
calf's head, tongue, tripe, lamb, chieken, mutton and beef. 

Eggs. — Eggs raw, soft and hard cooked. 

Farinaceotis. — Graham bread, whole wheat bread, corn bread, 
stale bread, dry toast, cradiera, tapioca, sago, cornstarch, rice, oata, 
hominy, cracked wlieat. 

Vegetables. — Asparagua, celery, creases, lettuce, green peas, string 
beans, sweet corn, apinach. 

Desserts. — Ripe fruit — raw or stewed ; apple tapioca, apple snow, 
baked apples, cuaUrds, junkets, rice, tapioca, cornstarch, or bread 
puddings. 

Liquida. — Liquid Peptonoida on cracked iee, pure cold water, hot 

water and milk (equal parts), malted milk, weak tea and coffee, not 

381 



383 DIET IN DISEASE 

more than one cup at a time and taken slowly after a, meal; nil' 
fermented grape juiee. 

AVOID. — Ice water, Bpirituoua liquora, nuts, cfaeeae, ice cri 
pastry, pies, candies, salmon, lobster, crabs, sausages, ducks, goos«. 
Baited, Hmoked or preserved fish ; pickled, potted, eomed or curtJ 
meats, kidney, liver, fried foods, gravies, potatoes, turkey, atew, 
hashes, pork, veal, rich soups, chowder. 

DIET m COnSTIPATION 

It is almost as difficult to preacribe a diet for constipatioQ 
88 it is for dyspepsia, and for the same reason, namely, cou- 
stipation is not in itself a disease, but a symptom or result of 
many diseases. As a general rule, however, a certain diet is 
more or less suitable for any kind of constipation. By tiie 
latter term we uaually mean a delayed action of the bowels 
due to a natural weakness of the muscles of the intestines, or 
to an acquired weakness due to too concentrated a form of 
nourishment or to a sedentary life. In a certain percentage 
of cases the delayed action of the bowels is due to temporarj 
spasm of the intestinal muscle, and this may even occur in 
association with weakness of the muscle, as is seen in hysteri- 
cal women. There is finally delayed bowel action in a great 
number and variety of diseases. 

The resources employed in treating the diseases which 
cause constipation include many plans beside diet, yet the 
latter is indispensable. 

A mixed diet is very necessary, for purely animal food 
products, as meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, etc., conduce to 
constipation because absorption of such foods is bo nearly 
complete that not enough residue remains in the intestines to 
stimulate peristalsis. On the other hand, a diet of vegetables, 
involving a large indigestible residue, causes large fecal mo- 
tions, but these are not promptly expelled unless the intestine 
is healthy. Much extra work is thrown upon the intestine 
when a vegetarian diet is used exclusively; and as a result 
of such excesBive work the intestine becomes in time weak- 
ened. 

Constipation from whatever cause and of whatever nature 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 383 

may be, wheo BufEeiently pronounced, sufficient to render a 
healthy man or woman sick. Digestion becomes impaired, 
appetite lost. This fact alone teaches us that in dieting a 
constipated subject we often have to deal with a sick in- 
dividual. It has often been stated that a patient or his life- 
long companions are better judges as to his diet than a 
physician hastily consulted, 

Ewald, and doubtless most stomach specialists, are opposed 
to au exclusive calorie plan of feeding in all gastro-intestinal 
diseases. This is natural because food which is theoretically 
indiciited cannot be managed by the digestive organs. If an 
attempt is made to feed a. patient thus affected witii 3000 
calories of food, the result will be complete repugnance to 
all food. The amount of food ingested in these cases, in 
the most palatable and digestible form, cannot come up to 
the calorie standard. The quantity ingested in such pa- 
tients is BO low as to be quite beneath the efficient level. The 
inference is natural that such patients must draw on their 
reserve fund to make up the calories. 

Ilence the only course to pursue is to cure the condition 
which causes the constipation as soon as possible. For mere 
sluggish action of the bowels, not amounting to disease, many 
popular dietetic remedies are employed. It ia by no means 
certain that this delayed action in many healthy peraona is 
other than natural or temperamental. Fletcher has shown 
that as a result of his reduced diet and excessive mastication 
of food which contains not much indigestible residue, sterile 
and odorless feces are formed which cause no discomfort, and 
insists that such people need have no anxiety about their 
bowels. On the other hand, very many people who have reg- 
ular daily evacuations suffer from retention of fecal matter; 
only careful palpation of the sigmoid flexure will inform us 
as to whether the bowels are actually empty. 

Of household dietetic procedures for securing daily evacua- 
tions, the most common is the drinking of cold water on ris- 
ing — one, two or more glasses. To this a little common salt 
may be added. Jlany men depend for their morning e 



3S4 



DIET IN DISEASE 



tioD on smoking a cigar after breakfast. Women, as aire 
stated, find the morning draught of cold water valuable. ' 
The use of fruit at or before breakfast often causes an evacua- 
tion during the day. This is true especially of apples, pears, 
oranges, etc. Buttermilk is also largely used for this purpose. 
The vegetable acids with the large amount of indigestible 
residue make certain fruits valuable as laxatives. This is 
tme also of berries, although those which contain tannin 
(blackberries) may tend to constipate. Dried fruits, such as 
figs and prunes are especially useful. The use of sweet cider 
as a marked laxative seems to illustrate again the laxative 
power of vegetable acids. Very sweet substances in large 
amounts, chiefly honey and molasses are notably laxative. 
Oatmeai, among the cereal foods, is noted for its laxative 
powers. Beans and peas, popularly believed to be laxative, 
are really constipating; but the fermentation of the large 
amount of cellulose gives the illusion of impending diarrhcea. 
Oils and fats are laxative to many people. A word of cau- 
tion must here be inserted. Many of these substanccB car^ 
lessly spoken of as laxatives, often behave as violent purga- 
tives, especially in individuals who alternate between consti- 
pation and diarrhcea. The severe diarrhcea set up at times 
by sweet cider, molasses and other relatively inert sub- 
stances should teach us caution in giving such articlea to 
patients. 

No more important bygienic regimen can be adopted than the fol- 
lowing; I. Eat fruit before retiring {experiment and find what 
fruit seems to agree). 2. Three-quarters of an bour before breakfast 
drink two glasaea of cold water and exercise ten minutes in room 
before open window or take a brisk walk. If this regimen were 
followed daily by children and grown people thr^re would bs leas 
illness. 

DIKT: Boup. — Oyster eoup, meat broths, Liquid Peptonoids booQ- 

Fiah. — Haw oyatcrs, fresh fish of all kinds broiled or boiled. 
Ueata. — Game, poultry, almost any fresh meats. 
Farinaceous. — Eye bread, brown bread, graham, com and whelt 
wheat bread, hominy, mush, cereals. Bran Cookies. 

Tegelattlea. — Salads with oil, string beans, green peas, green com, 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 385 

asparagus, potatoes, cauliSower, spina tti, bruBsels sprouts, onious, 
boiled. 

DesBertB.— Simple and light-spple and Qg puddings, plain pud- 
ding, as custards, whips, and gi?latin, etc., junkets, ice cream, sherbet, 
ices, hominy, raisins, cherries, hucltleberries (the blue seedless kind), 
grapes, melons, apples, oranges, pears, ripe peaches, baked apples, 
with cream, figs, stewed prunes. 

Liquid. — Unfennented grape juice, plenty of pure water, cold or 
hot; black coffee, cocoa, new cider, buttermilk, orange juice, malted 
milk. 

AVOID. — ^ Spirituous liquors, pineapple, cheese, nuts, tea, sweets, 
milk, pastry, rich puddings, rice, tapioca, new bread, eggs, liver, 
pork, salt, smoked, potted or preserved fish or meats. 

DIET IN SIABRHOEA 

The term diarrhcea, like dyspepsia and constipation, repre- 
sents only a symptom or result of various diseases. While 
this affection cannot be cured by a dietetic plan alone, certain 
foods are known to be constipating and in treating the under- 
lying conditions attention to diet is all-important. It con- 
sists as much in avoiding laxative articles as in using consti- 
pating articles. Thus cheese and hard-boiled eggs are highly 
constipating to most individuals, yet they could not be em- 
ployed in a- diarrhcea which was due to or associated with 
gastritis. Hence foods known to be constipating must also 
be bland and easily digested. Food nearly all of which may 
be absorbed naturally antagonizes diarrhoea from any cause. 
The commonest articles used in this class are flour porridge, 
cooked white of eggs, boiled milk, toasted crackers, zwieback, 
rice, chocolate. Meat should be of the most tender and diges- 
tible nature, as sweetbreads, tongue, tenderloin of beef, etc. 
Dried beef powder may be mixed with 5 per cent, tannic acid- 
Articles which naturally contain the latter are useful if di- 
gestible. Acorn coffee is recommended by some. 

In a daily menu compiled by Ewald the following articles 
enter: Soft eggs, milk, toasted bread, zwieback, scraped 
beef, breast of chicken, the moat digestible kinds of fish, 
soups and broths (to the latter may be added Dry Pepto-' 
noids Soluble, Sanatogen and other semi-proprietary condensed 



386 DIET IN DISEASE 

protein foods). Articles used in diet list for constipation 
must be avoided. 

Massachusetts Oeneral Hospital i 

DIET. — Stale bread, dry toast, crackers, butter, rice, soft cooked 
Eggs, eggs and. milk. Hour aiid milk puddings, boiled and peptoniaed 
milk, tea, custards, blauc-mange, wine jelly, oatmeal, ojeters, gruel, 
chicken. 

AVOID. — Soups, animal broths, fresh bread, fruits, vegetables, 
fried dishes, fish, saccbarioe foods, salt meats, veal, lamb and pork. 

DYSENTEEY 

Thompson = 

During an attacii of acute dysentery the patient should I 
kept absolutely quiet in bed, and should not be allowed to 
rise for the movement of the bowela, making use of a bed- 
pan instead. Throughout the active stage the diet must be 
strictly cooflned to easily digestible food, and in moat cases it 
is wisest to give only predigested fluid articles. Peptonised 
or pane reatini zed milk, or boiled milk, presaed-meat juice, 
whey, or raw egg albumin beaten with sherry and flavored 
with nutmeg are recommended. Many patients do beet upon 
a diet of raw scraped beef or meat balls. 

In cases of acute dysentery, and especially in the amoebic 
form, the loss of strength, amemia, and emaciation progress 
very rapidly, and the strength must be supported by stimula- 
tion, for which brandy is preferable to whiskey. 

During convalescence the diet must be very cautiously in- 
creased, and confined to food which is promptly and com- 
pletely digested, leaving hut little residue. For this purpose 
animal food should be chiefly eaten, while fish, tender beef- 
steak, roast beef, boiled or broiled chicken, eggs, custard, 
blanc-mange, dry toast, junket, well-hoOed rice, or wine jelly, 
may be given. All fruits and vegetables must be forbidden, 
and butter and cream should be taken sparingiy. 

If the disease occurs in infancy, the child, if poseibl^ 
should be fed at the breast. Otherwise all milk and water 

• Dial uiHid at the Mmsachuaetta General Honpltal, Boatoa. 
*W. Oilman ThDmpioa. U.D.: "Practical DliietJcB." Now York, D. 
AppletoQ h Co. 



i 



1 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 387 

given should be Pasteurized. Beef tea and mutton brotli 
may be allowed in moderation, and special care should be 
observed not to overfeed. 

DIET FOU ACUTE COLITIS (DYSENTEKT) 

XaESSchasetts General Hoapital i 

Purge and starve one day, then: lean meat, 100 gms., 3 
times daily ; albumin water of 2 eggs, 6-8 times daily. Con- 
tinue for 4 days, then add: skimmed milk, 16 oz, ; toast (no 
butter), 3 slices with maple syrup; rice, 50 gms, daily. After 
10 days increase toast, give butter, macaroni, tapioca, cream 
cheese and Indian meal iiiush. 

CEnoinc DTSENiEaT 
Thompson ' 

Chronic dysentery is often best treated by an exclusive 
Ttiillf diet of from two and a half to three quarts a day, with 
rest in bed or on the lounge. In other cases rare steak or 
roast beef or chicken and egg albumin may be allowed, witb 
dry toast, zwieback, or crackers. The milk and meat diet 
may be advantageously combined. 

In Osier's opinion, if there is much ulceration of the colon, 
meat is not well borne, and it ia better to keep the patient 
upon a diet which will give but little residue, such as boiled 
or peptonised milk. 

The stools must be examined every day or two to ascertain 
the presence of undigested fragments of milk curds or meats, 
oil globules, mucus, blood, etc. If improvement does not 
occur, the patient may be put upon a diet of egg albumin or 
Sanatogen with beef juice, or some of the preparations of beef 
meal or peptonoids, with pancreatinised milk. Ketam to 
solid diet must be very gradual, and may be conducted on 
the lines directed for convalescence from typhoid fever. 

■W. Oilmaa ThampHD, H.D.: ■'Pnotlosl OlsUtloi." Nbv York. D. 



388 



DIET IN DISEASE 



EKTEUC DIET 
Dr. Vickery i 

Milk, strained gruels, broths and strained sonps, milk whey, 
buttermilk, slips, eggs (soft cooked or raw), milk flavored occa- 
«ionally with tea or coffee, barley water, albumin water, beef juice, 
Liquid Peptonoids. 



SPECIAL ENTEBIC DIET 

Cutler 2 



Rkimmcd Milk 


8 


oz. 








at 7 


A.M 


Mcllins* Food 


8 


(( 








" 9 


« 


l^kimmed Milk 


8 


it 




• 




''11 


tt 


KggH and Milk 


8 


(t 








" 1 


P.M. 


l\ovi juice 


3 


" with 












Harley water 


3 


(( 








" 3 


€€ 


Skimmed Milk 


6 


" with 












Tea 


i 


(( 








" 5 


€€ 


(thicken Broth 


4 


" with 












IJarley Water 


3 


(( 








t< "T 

i 


€€ 


Buttermilk 


8 


ft 








" 9 


*€ 


Wkimmed Milk 


8 


(( 








"11 


t€ 


Beef Tea 


8 


it 








" 1 A.M 


i^kimmed Milk 


8 


ti 








" 3 


f( 


Albumin Water 


8 


it 








" 6 


€€ 


LiairiD ENTERIC DIET 










Cutler 2 












Skimmed Milk 


8 


oz. 


4 


times 


every 24 


hour 


Bkimmcd Milk 


6 


" with 












Tva or Coffee 






2 


tt 


tt 




t€ 


Beef Tea 


8 


It 


1 


it 


tt 




f€ 


Chicken broth 


3 


" with 












Barley Water 


3 


(( 


1 


tt 


tt 




tt 


Mellins* Food 


8 


(I 


1 


tt 


tt 




tt 


Albumin Water 


8 


tt 


1 


ft 


tt 




tt 


Beef juice 


3 


" with 












Barley Water 


3 


tt 


1 


tt 


tt 




tt 


Buttermilk 


8 


t( 


1 


tt 


tt 




tt 



One soft boiled egg daily if desired or raw in milk. 

^ Dr. Viokery : ' ' Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Bos- 
ton. • • 

' Blbridge O. Cutler, M.D. : ' ' Diet used at the Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston." 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 



389 



APPEBDICITIS 

Thompson t 

Dietetic Treatment. The dietetic treatment of appendiei- 
tia, which has not yet passed into the surgeon's hands, should 
consist in giving only such foods as will be thorougUy ab- 
Borbed, leaving as little residue as possible to irritate the lower 
bowel and excite peristalsis. 

Until the outcome of the attack is decided it is best to put 
the patient upon a fluid diet, consisting chiefly of nutritive 
broths. Beaten eggs may be allowed, and a moderate quan- 
tity of pancreatinised milk, whey, or buttermilk. Cocoa may 
be given, and strained gruels of rice and barley. 

In recurrent cases the patient should be cautioned to eat 
moderately and avoid all coarse or hard food, such as grits, 
coarse oatmeal, tough meats, fibrous vegetables, the skin of 
fruits or potatoes — in short, everything likely to overload 
the intestine with accumulated waste. 

The operative cases should have the diet recommended 
after laparotomy. Usually the digestive organs require al- 
most absolute rest for twenty-four hours after the operation, 
and hot water may be sipped. No food at all should be given 
for fully six hours before operation. 



AppUtDu a Co, 



New Yorlt 



CHAPTER XVIII 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE OENITO-TTBINAKY SYSTEM 

ACITTE BRIGHT'S DISEASE 

In dieting a patient suffering from acute Blight's disease, 
one fact to be kept prominently in mind is the diflBculty that 
the system has in getting rid of its waste material — espe- 
cially of its nitrogenous waste. Another point is that the 
diet should be such as to assist in carrying off those inflam- 
matory products by which we know that the tubules of the 
kidneys are to a greater or less extent blocked. The amount 
of nitrogenous elements in foods must be kept down, and aid 
must be given for washing out the products of inflammation 
from the uriniferous tubules. 

Water is the best diuretic. — Hot water and hot diluent 
drinks. 

Diluted milk is the food that answers best, and skimmed 
milk has a high reputation as a diuretic. Buttermilk, whey 
and kumyss are useful. 

From two to three pints of milk, well diluted, given in the 
twenty-four hours, will in most cases be sufficient at first, 
but if the disease be protracted and tends to become chronic, 
a more liberal allowance of liquid food must be ordered, and 
broths may be added to the dietary. When milk alone is 
given it should be given in divided quantities at stated in- 
tervals — half a pint every three or four hours, diluted with 
half as much hot water or effervescing water. 

Between supplies of milk drink freely of diluent drinks. 

Diluent Drinks. Plain water, toast water, barley water, 
cream of tartar and lemon drinks, and the acid drinks are all 
useful diluents. 

Give between meals and drink slowly. 



GENITO-URINABY SYSTEM 391 

CHSONIC BaiGHT'8 DISEASE 

The kidneys are great agents in the work of excreting ni- 
trogenous waste, and if these organs become clogged with ac- 
cumulation of nitrogenous waste products they are not able 
to perform their functions. 

As soon as we have evidence sufficient to prove that th6 
kidneys are laboring and are burdened by their work, we must 
endeavor to remove the strain by regulating the diet; and one 
clear indication is to limit the supplies of nitrogenous foods. 

Large amounts of animal food and the use of alcohol must 
be stopped, and better stopped altogether. 

In many cases the effect of feeding the patient for six 
weeks, or even two or three months, upon an exclusive milk 
diet, is remarkably gratifying. The quantity of milk to be 
prescribed for an exclusive milk diet in Bright'a disease must 
depend on the age and size of the patient, as well as upon 
his ability lo take exercise and use up force in muscular en- 
ergy. If the patient is invalided so as to be confined to his 
room or the house, from five to seven pints of milk daily are 
quite sufficient. If the patient loses weight on a milk diet, 
although it otherwise agrees with him, it may be well to add 
farinaceous food in the shape of rice or bread. In the worst 
cases it is desirable to give the milk at brief intervals, 
in quantities of six ounces, once an hour during the day- 
time, with an extra tumblerful at night, and on awakening 
in the morning. 

The quantity of milk necessary to support life for any 
length of time and maintain good nutrition, especially if 
the patient is exercising at all, is considerable, and he must 
take from fourteen to eighteen, or even twenty-two six-ounce 
tumblerfuls of milk in the twenty-four hours. 

It is usually impossible to commence at this rate without 
producing gastric disturbances from souring of the milk in 
the stomach, and possibly diarrhoea. The latter symptom 
is an almost certain indication that the milk is being im- 
perfectly digested, and a temporary reduction in its quantity 
is advised. 



I 



39S 



DIET IN DISEASE ' 



Ab the patient improves the milk diet may be given np, 
but it should never be too suddenly abandoned. In adopting 
any other diet it is a good rule never to let the nitrogenous 
food bear a greater proportion to the non-nitrogenous than 
one to four. 

When, after a milk diet, the change is to be made to a more 
liberal menu, the hours of taking the milk may be reduced 
in frequency, and some of the milk may be replaced by the 
more hearty food, 

DIET: Soup. — Vegetable or fish soup, broths with rice or barl^. 

Fish. — ■ Raw oystera or clams, freah fish broiled or boiled. 

Jfenfs. — Eat sparingly, chicken, game, fat bacon, fat ham. 

Farinaceous, — State bread, whole wheat bread, toast, milk toast, 
biscuits, macaroni, rice, cereals of all kinds. 

Vegelabtes. — Onion, cauliflower, mashed potatoes, inuahrooms let- 
tuce, watercreHS, Bpinach, celery, cahbage. 

Desserts. — EJpe raw fruits, stewed fmita, riee, tapioca, bread and 
milk puddings, junkets, eocoa. 

Liquids. — Toast water, weak tea, pure water, peptonieed milk, 
matted milk, fresh buttermilk, milk with hot water equal parts, 
whey, nnfermented grape juice. 

AVOID. — Fried fish, corned beef, hashes, stews, pork, vea), heavy 
bread, hatter cakes, lamb, mutton, beef, gravies, beans, peas, malt 
or spirituouE liquors, tobacco, coffee, ice cream, cake, pastry. 



MEPHBITIC DIET 

Hassachnsetts Ocneral Hospital ' 

Bread, soft puddings without eggs, all vegetables, except peas 



beans, fruits of all kinds, gruels and broths. 
AVOID. — Meat, eggs, peas, beans. 

DIET FOB ACUTE NEPHRITIS, UBIC ACID QBATXL 

Dr. Hewes, Hassachnsetts General Eotpltal i- 
Four days. Milk, 800 c.c; 32 per cent, cream, 30O c.( 

200 gms.; butter. Feed six times a day with mixture of milk, ISO 

gms. i creani, 1 oz. ; bread, y^ slice. 

Fifth day adopt the following: Milk, 800 c.c; cream, 300 c.c; 

rice, 50 gms.; tapioca, 50 gms.; bread, 100 gms. Occasionally ice 

cream or custard. 



as a^^^l 




GENlTO-UmXABY SYSTEM 393 

Tary diet from Any to day in above limits. If oedema is present 
and tuila to disappear ehange above to dry salt-free diet. At the 
start give no more liquid than above; after the oedema is gone 
water can be given bb desired. 

Speoiat Dry Salt-Free Diel. Morning. Salt-free bread, 2 slices 
(toasted if desired); an abundance of salt-free butter; maple syrup 
if desired. 10 a. M, Rice with small amount of cream or sugar 
(no syrup). 

Noon. Mashed potatoes with butter, no salt; salt-free bread, 2 
aJicea; salt-free butter, 4 P. 11. Rice, tapioca, or baked custard. 

Supper. Salt-free bread, 2 slices; salt-free butter; 2 eggs, soft 
cooked; 1 orange daily. 

Caution. Limit liquids to one pint a day, including milk and 

Sail-Free yephritio Dieta (Halpin). Xo. 1. Milk, 1500-2000 c.c; 
white salt-free bread, 400-500 gmn.; butter (salt-free), 40 gma.; eggs, 
4-6. (5-6 gma. NaCL contained.) 

No. 2. (Widal). SalMree bread, 200 gras.; salt-free butter, 50 
gms.; salt-free beans or rice, 250 gms.; meat, 20O gms. (beef, chicken, 
or mutton) ; sugar, 40 gms. (1500 calories). (1-2 gms. NaCL con- 
tained.) 

No. 3. Potatoes, TOO gma.; salt-free bread, 200 gms.; salt-free 
butter, GO gms.; cream cheese, 60 gma. (2000 calories.) (1-2^4 gms, 
NaCL contained.) 

No. 4. Potatoes, 1000 gms. without salt; meat, 400 gms. without 
salt; salt-free butter, 80 gma.; sugar, 100 gms. (2000 calories). 
(1-2 gms. NaCL contained.) 

No. 5. Potatoes, 16 oz. (without salt) ; rice. oz. (without salt) ; 
meat, 4 oz. (without salt); cream, S oz.; eggi, 2 (without salt); 
sugar to taste. 

COITTTTLSIOIIS IN BBIOHT'S DISEASE 

Convulsions in Brigki's Disease. In the course of Bright'a 
disease convulsioDB and unconsciousneBS may occur. The 
course to adopt is to encourage the action of the akin, there- 
fore place the patient in bed between warm blankets, pack 
hot water bottles around him, and send for medical assist- 
ance. — During this period the patient should live upon the 
exclusive milk diet. 



394 DIET IS DISEASE 



Dietetic Treatment. The frequent return of functional 
albuminuria should be regarded as an indication of special 
weakness of the kidneys in the same way that frequent 
glycosuria invites suspicion of the strengtii of the digestive 
power of the liver, and it demands a carefnl r^ulation of 
the diet. Meat should be reduced in quantity^ or temporarily 
forbidden, as well as all forms of alcoholic drinks^ or other 
substances liable to produce renal irritation, and the diet 
should consist chiefly of fruits, vegetables, and Tnillr , Care- 
ful attention must be paid to increasing the activity of the 
bowels. 

When functional albuminuria is observed in children and 
adolescents, it is not necessary, nor is it advisable in ordi- 
nary cases, to wholly exclude nitrogenous food, but it should 
be restricted, especially in regard to eating butcher's meat 
and eggs, and the evening meal should be made very simple, 
consisting of food such as bread, crackers, rice or porridge, 
and milk. 

*W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: ** Practical Dietetics." New York. D 
Appleton & Co. 



CHAPTER XTX 

DIET IN MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 

ITEAVOUS DISOKDEBS 

Dietetic Treatment. The first thing to be done for a per- 
son suffering from nerve exhaustion is to adopt a dietary 
and a habit of life that will rebuild the nerve cells. The 
lost energy must be gently and slowly " coaxed " back — not 
through medicines, but through proper environments, proper 
employment and proper food. There is no disease that re- 
quires so little medicine as nerve exhaustion. The dietary 
should be simple and nutritious, abounding in lettuce, pars- 
ley and the fresh green edibles in season. If there is much 
mtestinal disturbance, potatoes and foods that are rich io 
starch should be discarded. Active stimulants should be en- 
tirely eschewed. Take freely of unfermentcd grape juice, 
malted milk and Sanatogen in milk or Vichy. 

In functional nervous disease, such as hysteria and hy- 
pochondrias is, the appetite, muscular elasticity, and mental 
powers will often be observed to be deficient in the early part 
of the day, and to recover their tone in the evening. At this 
latter time, therefore, it is advisable to make the principal 
meal. 

FTJIICTIOHAl DISORDEKS OF THE LITEIl (BUIOIISIIESa) 

DIET: Soups. — Light brotliH, vegetable aoups, with crackers or a 
little toasted bread. 

FiBk. — Broiled or boiled freali white fleah flah, raw oyaters. 

Heals. — Eat very sparingly of lean mutton, lamb, chicken or 

Farinaceous. — Whole wheat bread, graham bread, dry toast, crack- 
ers, cereals, tapioca, arrowroot [well cooked). 

Vegetables. — Maehed potatoes — alraoat all fresh vegetables (well 
cooked), plain salads of watercress, lettuce end dandelions. 
395 




396 VIST m DISEASE 

Dtaaerli. — Plaiii milk pudding ot tapioca oi 
Htew»d or fresh fruits (all without sugar). 

lAquiiU. — Weak tea or coffee ( without sugar 
pore, plain or aerated water. 

AVOID. — Articles o( diet that are rich and highlj- 
euiries, pies and pastry, strong- aoupa, foods rich in fats, galmoD, 
bemngs, eels, mackerel, and other fish of an oily nature, elaborate 
entries, also rich sweets and creams, cheese, dried fruits and nuls, 
malt liquors, sweet wines, such as cbampagne, Madeira, brows 
Bhen7 and port. 

DIET IH SEm DISEASES 

Nearly all affections of the skin of coDstitntional or reflei 
(gastro-intestinai ) origin, especially acne, eczema, psoriaBis, 
Beborrhosa capitis, pruritus, urticaria, etc., improve under 
dietetic measures and often recover under these alone. 
While no special plan applies to all, the elimination of sugar 
and sweets of all kinds, and aubetanceB rich in fat, as cheesy 
nuts, fried articles, etc., is essential. Pure fats like butter, 
cream, salad oil, etc., are, however, well enough in small 
amounts. Malt liquors and sweet wines disagree, largely 
because of the sugar therein; but alcohol itself 13 also prej- 
udicial in many cases. 

It is well to take all food in small rations, and masticate 
it thoroughly; for the prejudicial effect of food in skin dis- 
eases is often directly attributable to fermentation, favored 
by atony of the digestive tract, dilated stomach, constipa- 
tion, etc. Physical exercise is of great benefit in most of 
these cases. 

The diet and other regimen in skin diseases is much like 
that for obesity, gout and diabetes. All these metabolic di». 
orders tend to produce skin diseases. 

DIET IS HEABT DISEASE 
In disease of the heart which has passed the period of com- 
pensatory activity, so that the organ is no longer able to 
discharge its functions perfectly, it is highly important that 
the stomach be not overloaded by heavy meals, and that the 
likelihood of flatulency be minimized as much as possible bi 



1 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 397 

care in eating, for distention of the atomach from any cause 
may be quickly felt by the pressure upon the weakened heart. 
Many fatahties come about in this manner; hence meals 
should be small, repeated when ncceasary. The food should 
be concentrated and should contain little waste material. 
Certain articles of food prone to ferment should be excluded, 
the patient's own experience being the best guide. 

On the other hand, it is also important to avoid increasing 
the blood pressure by giving too much water, which should 
be kept within a certain daily limit conformable to the good 
results obtained. Patients should not try to live on milk 
or take any mineral water cure. Anything which produces 
thirst — like salted food, spices, etc., should be avoided, as 
should e.xposure to very hot weather. 

DIETETIC KANAGEIIEHT OF SUKOICAL CASES 

Not much special attention is paid to dietetics until a day 
or two before operation, with the exception of stomach cases. 
Whenever a patient is to be operated on for a stomach affec- 
tion, many surgeons advocate the free use of articles rich in 
vegetable acids, believing that such articles are natural anti- 
septics for the stomach and intestines. These substances, 
while technically acids, are quickly changed to altaliea in 
the body, and tend to lessen the total acidity of the latter. 
Some German surgeons even allow such patients to eat freely 
of sauerkraut, sour milk, etc. 

In other cases, the patient is placed in bed, or is in com- 
plete rest for several days, and fed on very simple and nutri- 
tious articles in moderate quantities only. The old custom 
of fattening or building patients up before operating on them 
has largely died out- If the bad general state of the patient 
is due to the condition which is to be operated on, nothing 
is gained by such attempts. In the case of a rapidly prog- 
ressing disease, every hour lost before operating may dimin- 
ish the chance for recovery, immediate or ultimate. If the 
patient is in bad condition for withstanding an operation, he 
may often be operated on safely under local anesthesia. 



398 DIET IN DISEASE 

There are many resources to-day for minimizmg the dangers 
of shock and hemorrhage. As a general rule the sooner a 
patient is operated on, the better, irrespective of the urgency 
of the condition. To live for weeks and months in anticipa- 
tion of an operation is beUeved by its depressing effect to off- 
set alleged attempts at strengthening patients. 

WTien a general anesthetic is to be given the patient must 
fast beforehand to such an extent that the stomach is empty 
at the hour of anesthesia. As operations are usually per- 
formed in the forenoon, the patient should take but little 
supper and no breakfast. Should the operation be performed 
late in the day, he may have a light breakfast. 

In emergency operations, the patient having taken food 
within six hours, the stomach should first be washed out. 
This is also done as a routine procedure in all operations 
involving the stomach itself. Water may be given at any 
time. After the operation there is such a natural tendency 
to nausea that little or no attempt should be made to feed 
tlie patient for some hours. Only in exceptional eases in 
which the stomach is not upset and the patient complains 
of hunger, a little tea and toast, or milk may be given. In 
tlie great majority of cases no food is given until the follow- 
ing day. 

As soon as the stomach will tolerate it, however, simple 
nutritious food should be given in proper amounts. The 
tendency to-day is toward getting up early after operations, 
and against everything which tends to make the patient pas- 
sive and bedfast The patient therefore needs more food 
than if he were to be bedridden. 

In patients who from any reason are unconscious or de- 
lirious after operation, some plan of artificial treatment is 
necessary, involving the use of the nasal, stomach or rectal 
tube. 

In any condition in which post operative vomiting will 
undo the results of operation, the diet should be extremely 
light and bland until healing has occurred, and it may be 
necessary to feed by the rectum. If the patient is unable to 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 399 

masticate be must be given only liquid or very soft foods. 

Aa a rule, when poat operative feeding is left wholly to 
the discretion of the nurse, a certain rule is adopted as fol- 
lows: 

No food at all for the first twenty-four hours. Water may 
be given in sips for the intolerable thirst and in addition to 
plain water, the patient may receive a swallow of carbonic 
water, cracked ice, a little hot tea or black coffee, or some 
alcoholic stimulant. Toward the end of the period a tea- 
spoonful or two of milk diluted with lime water may be 
given. 

During the second twenty-four-hour period about one-half 
a pint of milk or some other liquid food may be given in 
Bmall doses and this amount may be doubled on the third 
day. 

The third or fourth day usually coincides with normal 
bowel action, the patient having received laxatives on the day 
preceding. The patient as soon as this has occurred may 
go upon a semi-solid diet, so increased aa to be regular at 
the end of a week or ten days. 

The diet varies notably with the patient and the kind of 
operation and its outcome and the responsibility for special 
provisions suited to individual cases falls upon the medical 
attendant and are modified from day to day nnder his direc- 
tions. 

DIET AFTEK lAPAROTOMT, OVAHIOTOMT, ETC. 

Thompson ' 
After all operations involving opening the peritoneal cav- 
ity complete rest of the stomach is ncceBsary for at least four 
or six hours, and not infrequently for two or three days. 
Food and stimulants may be given by enemata. If fed per os 
for the first three days, not over a tablespoonful of pancrea- 
tinised milk or milk with lime water or barley water should 
be allowed, onee in two or three hours. Later the quantity 

<W. Gjlnon Thompson, M.D.: '■ Pnctkul Dietetic!." New York. D. 
ApplstoD ft Co. 



I 



400 DIET IN DISEASE \ 

may be increased and the intervals diminished, and beef tai 
beef peptonoids, and egg albumin may be added. 

In these eases the duration of anesthesia has usually \m 
prolonged, and the shock is considerable. The danger fron, 
the occurrence of vomiting, fermentation of food, and flatu-; 
lent distention of the abdomen is far worse than that of in-i 
anition from abstinence. It is well also to precede the opera-l 
tion by a day or two of dieting in order to lessen the bulkl 
of intestinal waste matter. To this end the diet shouHJ 
when possible, consist chiefly of lean meat and dry toast, 
vegetables and especially sweets being avoided. 

After wounds and operations affecting the stomach or in« 
testines no food at all should be given by the mouth. Notli-' 
ing but a little cracked ice should be so administered, and 
all nourishment must be supplied for several days by the 
rectum. The return to mouth-feeding must be made very 
slowly and cautiously by at first giving not over one or two 
tablespoonfuls of pancreatinised milk or beef juice at a time. 

There is often much thirst following operations involving 
the peritonaeum, which is relieved more by hot fluids than by 
ice, which sometimes irritates the throat and increases the 
desire for drink. If there is danger of all fluids exciting 
emesis, a salt-water enema once in three or four hours will 
alleviate thirst. 



CHAPTER XS 

SIET IN SPECIAL COin)ITIONS 

MOTHERHOOD 
DIET ns fbeohasct 

Thompson ' 
It is not customary to adopt any definite system of diet 
for pregnancy unless complications arise. If aerious vomit- 
ing occurs in the early months, this should be treated in the 
manner described in following article. If albuminuria is 
discovered, meat and other nitrogenous food must be re- 
stricted, in accordance with the directions given for al- 
buminuria. If the patient becomes very anromic, without 
albuminuria, meat, eggs, and milk should be eaten in abnnd- 

The "longing" of pregnant women for various indigestible 
articles, such as pickles, chalk, etc., are largely mythical, and 
occurs, if at all, only as an accompaniment of a general hys- 
terical condition, not as a peculiarity of the period of preg- 
nancy. Pregnant women, however, should live simply and 
avoid foods which are likely to produce dyspepsia, heartburn, 
spiced dishes, and heating drinks. 

They often suffer from constipation, in which case fruita 
and coarse cereals, such as oatmeal or wheatcn grits, may be 
of service. The stomach, especially at night, should not be 
overloaded. The idea formerly prevalent that pregnant 
women need to eat food containing abundant phosphates and 
lime salts, to furnish the embryo with material for making 



Appletoo « Co. 



IIKI1 Thompson, M.D.: 




402 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

bones, as a lien eats lime to make egg shells, ie no longer 
accepted. The ealta in question are Buffieientlj contained 
in an ordinary mixed diet, such as any pregnant woman maj 
eat, if plainly cooked. 

Another theory, equally ingenious and directly opposed 
to the one above mentioned, is only interesting historical!?, 
for efforts to aid Nature in a proceaa which slie is abundantij 
competent to regulate unaided are now regarded as futile. 
This theory was tliat the agonies of labor would be less severe 
if the pregnant woman lived upon a diet of fruits and meats, 
avoiding bread and fresh vegetables during gestation, on the 
ground that the lime salts which they contain would favor 
early ossification of the infant's bones, and thus make the 
labor proportionately difficult. 

It will be observed that the first theory favors the child, 
and the second tlie mother, but practically it has been found 
that diet has little or no influence either way, eo long as it 
is digestible, nourishing and sufBcient to keep the mother in 
good general condition. 

VOMITINO — SEABICKHE8S — TOMITIITa OF FSEGNAWCT 
Thompson > 

The first principle in the dietetic treatment of vomiting 
from any cause is to give the stomach rest. If it has been 
overloaded with a large bulk of food, or with indigestible 
material, it is well to encourage emesis, and distressing retch- 
ing may be overcome by taking large draughts of lukewarm 
water. A quart or two will rinse out the stomach and allay 
irritation to a marked degree. 

Well nourished patients when serious vomiting first occurs 
should usually refrain from taking food of any kind for from 
ten or twelve or even twenty-four hours. E.\ceptions to this 
rule are sometimes found in that type of seasickness, and 
sometimes in the vomiting of pregnancy, in wliich, as soon 
almost as the stomach is emptied, there is a desire to re- 
plenish the loss. 

'W. Gilmon Thooip»on, M.D.: " Pi«cUc»1 DieMtici," J 
Applaton A Co. 




MOTHERHOOD 403 

In any ease in which the gastric irritation is peraJBtent, 
it is necessary to give fluid food, and only in small oft-re- 
peated doses, preferably in predigested form. The food is 
best given cold, as a rule, although some persona can relieve 
nausea by sipping very hot water. 

A teaspoon of prepared milk, or in extreme cases but a 
few drops, given with a medicine dropper once in ten or fif- 
teen minutes, may be all that the stomach will at first toler- 
ate. 

The following is a list of dietetic substances which are 
commonly prescribed for the relief of nausea and vomiting, 
or for nourishment while those conditions exist: Cracked 
ice; pancreatinised milk; milk with sodium bicarbonate (ten 
grains), and cerium oxalate (five grains) ; milk and lime 
water ; Vichy or milk with Sanatogen ; milk and Vichy, soda, 
seltzer, or carbonic-acid wafer ; Inimyss and zoolak ; beef ex- 
tracts and Liquid Peptonoids; Dry Peptonoids Soluble; raw 
meat pulp, scraped; strong black coffee; Eour lemonade or 
lemonade and Vjehy; clam broth. Dry crackers, dry toast, 
and ginger snaps will sometimes be retained in seasickness, 
or a cracker buttered and sprinkled with a little Cayenne 
pepper; brandy and soda; iced dry champagne; iced brandy 
diluted with water, soda water, or ApolUnaris, 

Very severe and protracted cases may require lavage or 
nutrient enemata. Vomiting after abdominal surgical opera- 
tions is often controlled by lavage. 

DIET FOR TEE MOTHES AFTEH LABOB 

Society of the Lylng-In Hospital, New York City > 
Immediately after labor in a normal case milk diet is given 
for the first six hours ; at the end of that time regular diet. 
In abnormal cases the diet is ordered by the physician. 
In our regular diet stewed fruits and cereals are given 
very frequently ; no veal or pork is allowed. 

In cases of severe engorgement of breasts, fluids are re- 
stricted; a dry diet is given, which consists of the regular 

'Diet used at the Sociely of the Lyine-ln Hojpilsl, New Ygrk ffltj. 



1 



404 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

diet and one glass of milk with each meal; no tea or coffee 
and no fluid between meals. 

In cases of eclampsia milk is always given; also a large 
quantity of water, either hot or cold, and cream of tartar 
drink. 

All nursing women have extra quantities of milk. 

DIET OF A NTTESING HOTHEE OE WET NITBSE 

Thompson i 

The diet of the nursing mother or wet nurse must be regu- 
lated to prevent noxious substances from passing into the 
breast milk, and to keep her in good health, so that she 
does not suffer from constipation, indigestion, or anaemia. 
Her weight should not alter, and if she has menstruated once 
or twice the milk changes and may disagree. 

If milk does not make her constipated or bilious, she may 
drink it abundantly. She may take gruels and meat broths, 
and she should eat simple nourishing food, meat, eggs, veg- 
etables, and fruits. The latter, even if sour, do not react 
unfavorably upon the child, provided the mother's digestion 
is good, and thoy serve to keep the child's bowels active. The 
mother should forego the drinking of much tea and coffee. 
Beer and wine also should not be drunk unless they are es- 
pecially prescribed as a tonic. Wet nurses often demand 
beer, ale, or porter with their meals if they have been accus- 
tomed to it; but the popular idea that such beverages are 
especially beneficial is fallacious. Malt liquor sometimes 
causes the secretion of more milk, because more fluid is 
drunk, but the milk is no better for it. A reasonable quan- 
tity of fluids should be drunk, however, or the secretion of 
milk will suffer. The fluid may be in the form of plain or 
effervescing water, milk, soups, etc. 

The mother or wet nurse should avoid all fatigue, worry, 
and emotional excitement of any kind, which may inhibit her 
digestive functions, and should take daily outdoor exercise. 

^W. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Oo. 



MOTHERHOOD 406 

On the whole, the best indication for the dietetic treatment 
of the wet nurse is the study of the condition of the child's 
digestion, bowels, and nutrition. A too meager diet for the 
nurse is soon evident in lack of nutrition and development 
of the infant. 

Drugs in Human Milk, Not many drugs pass unchanged 
into the milk which are likely to poison the child through 
its food, but there are some which should be carefully avoided 
on this account. Such are belladonna, opium, morphine, and 
other alkaloids; iodin and its preparations; mercury and its 
salts; salicylic acid. 

When, for any reason, it becomes necessary to discontinue 
the nursing and to stop further secretion of milk, the diet 
should at once be made as dry as possible, and a minimum 
quantity only of fluid is allowed. 



CHAPTER XXI 
INFANT FEEDING 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

Infants may be fed naturally, artificially or by a combina- 
tion of both methods. When the child is at tbe breast of 
its own mother or another nursing woman, there is no indi- 
cation for artificial feeding as long as breast milk is plentiful 
and of good quality. If the infant no longer thrives on 
mother's milk or the mother is unable to nurse it, and there 
is no other breast milk available, bottle feeding is then indi- 
cated. It goes without saying that many infants, chiefly 
foundlings, have to be bottle fed from the start, but every 
effort should be made to secure to the child its birthright of 
mother's milk. 

The subject of breast feeding and choice of a wet nurse 
are discussed thoroughly in special works which the nurse 
is obliged to study, and hardly belong to the general 
subject of dietetics. This is also true to a large extent of 
artificial feeding, because the physician's orders are so ex- 
plicit that they may be carried out by the mother or any 
intelligent woman. However, cases may occur, as they fre- 
quently do in hospitals, where the nurse is largely respon- 
sible for the thriving of the child, and is given only general 
instructions, if any, from the practitioner. For this reason 
a brief resume of the whole subject seems desirable. 

BREAST FEEDING 

The baby is first allowed to nurse after the mother has had 
some hours of sleep following delivery. This, however, is 
not actual feeding for the milk is not secreted as such until 
the second twenty-four hour period after birth. The first 

406 



INFANT FEEDING 407 

flow, called colostrum, differs from true milk ia its compo- 
sitioD, providing a Bmall amount of nourishment ready for 
absorption without digestion. The first attempt at nursing 
aids the mother by assisting the empty uterus to contract; 
while the colostrum aids the infant by stimulating the diges- 
tive tract and arousing peristalsis. In addition to the colos- 
trum the infant should receive only warm water for the first 
twenty-four hours. Should there be much delay in the secre- 
tion of mature milk it may be necessary to give the infant 
a little modified cow's milk having a very low protein content 
(Vi P^'' cent, to y2 per cent.). 

Under ordinary conditions the mother begins to secrete 
mature milk by the second twenty-four hour period. Up to 
the third or fourth day, this milk is mixed with colostrum 
in increasingly small amounts, but this may he disregarded 
in practice. The child must he taught to nurse at stated 
intervals, for fifteen or twenty minutes at a time, alternating 
the use of the breasts.' 

THE W£T BTJUBE 

When the mother is unable for any reason to nurse her 
child or to supply it with enough nutriment, the ideal sub- 
stitute is the milk of another nursing mother, who should be 
in perfect health and have a child of about the same age aa 
the infant to be nursed, When the wet nurse is a hireling 
the moral risk is very great, for the nurse's own child if atill 
living is largely sacrificed for the good of the other. It ia 
also difficult to find a wet nurse of good character or educa- 
tion. It ia particularly necessary to supervise her diet for 
she may be intemperate. Her own child may be illegitimate; 
she herself may suffer from some venereal or parasitic dis- 
ease. 

COHPOSITIOB OF MOTHER'S UILE 

It is often advisable to collect enough milk with the breast 
pump to permit of an analysis. Milk within normal limits 
should average fat, 4 per cent.; carbohydrates (milk sugar). 



1 



408 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITION^ 

7 per cent., and protein, 1.3 per cent. Such an analyeie 
unnecessary when the infant keeps well and gains in weight I 
Maternal nursing is of such vital importance that artificiil 
feeding should be looked upon as a last resort and necessarj 
evil, and carefully guarded against. If the mother's milk is 
found to bo poor in non-protein elements and over-rich m 
protein, attempts should be made to remedy the disproportion 
by proper treatment for the mother. 

TEE ETGIEUE of NATinCAL feedhtg 
Aa a nursing hiibv spends most of its time sleeping, dur- 
ing which state it grows and develops, there must be some 
relationship established between sleeping and feeding. Wheo 
it wakes from normal causes, it needs nourishment. Every- 
thing possible should be done to keep it from being wakened 
uniioccBsarily. Uonce it is best left alone, in a dark and 
quiet room, witli clothing properly adjusted. 

The baby should be weighed at birth and at regular inter- 
vals. It is natural for it to lose weight for the first week 
or BO, but by the end of the second week it should have re- 
turned to ita birth weight, and after that should gain steadily. 
Up to the fifth month, it should gain on an average from five 
to eight ounces a week and hence should then weigh double 
its birlli wcigjit. During the ne.\t ten months it should 
again gain its own weight, so that if it weighed eight pounds 
at birth it should weigh sixteen pounds at the end of five 
monllirt mid twenty-four pounds at the end of fifteen months. 
Teething, diarrhcea, hot summer weather, etc., tend to re- 
tard somewhat the natural gain. If it fail to gain from no 
apparent cause, the breast milk should be examined and a 
atrict plan of feeding introduced. If there is too little breast 
milk, as very often happens, the mother should drink from 
one to two (juarts of good milk daily, at regular intervals, 
during the night as well as the day hours. 

Some attention should he paid to the capacity of the in- 
fant's stomach, in all plans of systematic feeding, as ahown 
by the following table : 



r 



^1^^^^™ 



INFANT FEEDING 409 

CAPACITY 07 BABY'S STOIiACH 

Newly bom about 1 ounce. 

At I month about 2i ounces. 

At 2 months about 3| ouneea. 

from tlitii on, up to the first six months, the gain ia only 
fractional, so that at that time it is barely four ounces. 

One should bear in mind that the baby often craves water, 
rather than milk, and should always be offered it at intervals. 
It takes in this way one and one-half ounces or more each 
day, usually at the rate of two teaspoonfuls every four hours. 
This use of water tends to prevent overfeeding. It ia a good 
plan to give the water in a nursing bottle, as in this way 
the child becomes accustomed to its use, and leas difficulty 
is experienced at weaning time, or when breast feeding has 
to be partially or wholly discontinued for any reason, 

SCKBOXTLE FOB mTRSine 

up to two months of age the baby will normally demand 
the breast about ten timea in twenty-four houra, or roughly 
apeaking, every two hours, day and night. 

After the second month, the night nursings may be cut 
down to one. so that eight feedings in twenty-four hours will 
suffice, intervals from two to three hours. 

After the third month, and up to the sixth, it may be fed 
every three hours, in the daytime only. 

From the aixth to twelfth month, five feedings will suffice, 
all in the daytime, intervals from three to four houra. 

From the twelfth month to leaning time, four feedings 
BuSicc, about four hours apart, in the daytime only. 

The tendency of the mother's milk to grow scanty is usually 
very marked long before the nursing period is over. Aa al- 
ready stated, she should use milk freely aa a milk maker. 
The use of malt liquors no doubt increaaea the milk supply, 
but if the child has any ailment, especially of the akin, this 
will almost surely be aggravated. No drugs have any power 
to increase the flow of milk. 

When the mother's milk is inadequate and no other breast 



410 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

milk is afvailable, mixed feeding will be necessary. The 
receives just enough artificial food to make up the deficit. 
This is only what happens naturally at the weaning period, 
and is simply an anticipation of the latter. 

WEAHIHG 

Children can be nursed for two or three years, but in the 
great majority of cases, a period not earlier than twelve or 
later tlian eighteen months is chosen to begin mixed feed- 
ing, so that the process may be made gradual or rapid as 
cin^umstancos demand. 

As there is absolutely no difference between artificial feed- 
ing as a supplement to breast feeding and the same as an 
entire diet, the subject of substitute feeding is usually dis- 
cussed without special reference to the former. It must 
be reinoni bored that breast feeding continued too long be- 
comes a oonlirniod habit, like a drug habit, against the in- 
fantas own welfare. It then is necessary to make it repug- 
nant by putting aloes, etc., on the mother's nipple. 

AETIFICIAL OB BOTTLE FEEDING 

When tliore is no breast milk available for the newly-born 
child, or for an infant of any age during the nursing period; 
or when tlie eliild has some breast milk, but not enough to 
nourish it ; or when it has reached the weaning period and 
must be taken olf the breast either suddenly or gradually, 
the general conditions are much the same; viz., the child 
must be nourished by some artificial fluid which closely ap- 
proximates mother's milk in composition. For this purpose 
ass's milk seems esppcially suitable, as its composition and 
behavior in the stomach are very similar to human milk; but 
as a rule, no better results are obtained with any kind of 
foreign milk than that of the cow, properly modified to ob- 
tain the right proportion of protein, fat, and carbohydrate. 

DIFFEBENGE BETWEEN HTJXAN AND COW'S HILX 

Cow's milk has a larger protein content than human milk, 
and is richer in mineral matter. Human milk has a larger 



INFANT FEEDING 4X1 

sugar content and therefore a Boniewhat sweeter taate. The 
fat content of the two kinds of milk is about the same, and 
this is also true of the total solids. The following table showa 
the average composition of the two kinds of milk : 

Human Cow's 

Water 87% 87% 

Total Bolida 13% 13% 

Fatty matter 4% 4% 

Lactone 7% 5% 

Protein (aee Mcond tuble) 1.3% 3.5% 

Mineral matter 0.2% 0.7% 

The fat of cow's milk difEers with the breed of milch cow, 
and may be as low as 3 per cent, or 3 per cent. The fat in 
human milk is quite constant in amount, but the protein 
content may vary from 1 per cent, to 3 per cent., the 1.5 per 
cent, in the table being an average. 

Human milk, in comparison with cow's milk, ia very poor 
in casein, but rich in lactalbumin and hence, when coagulated, 
does not form large curds like cow's milk. The relations 
between casein and lactalbumin in the two kinds of milk are 
shown in the following table : 

Hunittti Cow's 

Total protein 1.80 3.50 

Casein 60 3.00 

Lactalbumin 1-20 .50 

The high protein content and large proportion of casein 
in cow's milk are advantageous to the calf, with its rapid 
rate of growth, and complex system of stomachs in which 
large curds can be completely digested; but for the more 
sinwly-growing boby, whose digestion is largely intestinal, 
the proportion of protein and the character of the curd must 
be modified. The fat of mother's milk contains more olein 
and more phosphorized fat (lecithin) than cow's milk. The 
lactose ia chemically the same. Freshly drawn cow's milk is 
neutral or amphoteric in -reaction to litmus. Basic elements 
predominate in both cow's and human milk, and hence they 
are both technically alkaline. The acidity of cow's milk to 



«a mST IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

certain indicatorB is due to the presence of acid salts, suA 
as acid calcium pliosphate. 

On standing, true acid is formed by the action of lactit 
acid bacteria upon the lactose. Por this reason, cow's milt 
frequently reacts acid to litmus. Breast miLt is practically 
eterile. 

OEHSRAL PXmCIPIXS 07 KILE H0IIIFICATIOH8 
It must be constantly borne in mind that anything bnt 
mother's milk is a foreign substance in the stomach of the 
child, and even to make a mixture agreeing in chemical com- 
position with the natural food 13 not to insure success. The 
gi'neral principles must be applied in a special way to each 
individual case. 

Tlio first step in modification is the dilution of the pro- 
tein. Few new-born infanta can digest pure cow's rnilk 
Some wquire more dilution tlian others. \\'here the diges- 
tive powers are unknown, it is wise to begin with a. low 
struMKlh and advance as rapidly as the condition of the child 
will jierniit. From '4 to 1 per cent, protein is eoniinoniy 
iTcom mended for the early weeks. 

The BOiiind step is the adjustment of the fat. Individual 
infanta differ in tlieir tolerance of fat as of protein. But 
iniiMuiK'lL as llie chemical and physical differences are not as 
groat in the case of fat, it is usually not necessary to reduce 
it below 2 per cent,, and it should approximate the propor- 
tion in mother's milk as rapidly as possible. 

When whole milk is diluted, if more than one volume of 
water be added, the percentage of fat is less than two, and 
for greater fat content, fat must be added in the form of 
crcnm. Since it is difficult to get the right percentage in 
this way, it is customary to select a milk with such a ratio 
between the protein and fat that diluting one to the desired 
strength dilutes llie other also to tlie required degree. This 
is accomplished by taking the upper layers of milk which has 
been standing five hours or more for the cream to rise. The 
Upper layers have much fat and little protein; the lower. 



loweij I 



^ 



INFANT FEEDING 413 

much protein and little fat, and the adjustment is readily 
made by taking a certain number of ounces for dilution. In 
the laboratory, the exact fat and protein content can be de- 
terniined by direct analysis. 

Tile third step in modification is the adjustment of the 
milk sugar. This can usually be given of the full strength 
found in mother's milk (7 per cent). Since lactose com- 
mereiaJly prepared from cow's milk is of the same composi- 
tion as that in mother's milk, it is only necessary to know 
the percentage already present in the misture to be fed, and 
then add sufficient to make the desired strength. 

Besides these three main steps in artificial feeding, we may 
have as a further consideration the selection of a diluent. 
Water is the first choice, but to aid in the modification of 
the character of the curd, cereal waters or gruels, lime water, 
proprietary foods, etc., are sometimes prescribed. Carefully 
prepared, and regarded mainly aa diluents and not as sub- 
stitutes for milk, the cereals and prepared foods are often 
useful aids. Lime water causes the mucin of the milk to 
swell, and tends to send the curd in soft condition into the 
intestines. It is also beneficial as a corrective of constipa- 
tion. 

WHAT jtiunios TO vm 

The degree of dilution varies with the age of the child. 
Advance is made from low strength to higher as rapidly as 
the child is able to digest stronger food. Since it is usually 
necessary to begin with a formula weaker than mother's milk, 
it is desirable that stronger formulte be given as soon as 
practicable to compensate for this early loss. This is par- 
ticularly true as regards mineral constituents. On diluted 
cow's milk, the child gets less iron and phosphorus than in 
mother's milk, and while cow's milk is rich in calcium, it is 
doubtful whether this is as perfectly utilized as that in human 
milk. 

THE aUAHTITT TO FEUD 

The amount of milk taken by the hreast-fed child is the 
usual guide as to quantity. (See Capacity of Baby's Stom- 



1 



414 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ach.) Both under-feeding and over-feeding are undesirable 
The best criteria of proper feeding are the normal weekly 
gain in weight (averaging at least four ounces) and the gen- 
eral well-being of the child. A determination of the energy 
value of the diet is desirable as a control. For the first year, 
a child requires on the average 100 calories per kilogram of 
body weight. Seventy calories per kilogram is minimum for 
existence, and does not ordinarily provide for storage in 
growth. 

LABORATORY MILK 

Witli the development of the milk laboratory, it has be- 
come possible to obtain by prescription, pure milk of any 
given composition. Such milk is necessarily expensive, and 
since slight variations in the composition of formulae are not 
serious for the ordinary healthy child, the use of laboratory 
milk is largely limited to sick babies or those of rich parents. 

HOME MODIFICATION 

For the average child, milk can be successfully modified at 
home. The chief requirements are fresh clean milk, absolute 
cleanliness in its treatment, and careful following of direc- 
tions in making up the feedings. 

Clean raw milk is preferable to any other kind. Therefore 
certified milk should be used if it can be afforded. If this 
is impossible, then the best bottled milk. If this is pasteur- 
ized, the pasteurization should be at a low temperature. 
Loose grocery milk should be avoided. When the milk comes 
into the house, the bottles should be carefully washed, and 
set in the cold until needed. 

All apparatus used in preparing the baby's food should 
be kept by itself on a tray or table. Every vessel should be 
washed in soapsuds and then scalded in clear water before 
use. 

If there is a special nursing refrigerator, it should be 
cleansed daily with soda-water. 



I 



INFANT FEEDING 
THE RTT&SXHO BOTTLE 

The tube bottles should never, under any con- 
sideration, be used. No matter how carefully these 
tubes and outfits are washed, small particles of 
milk will remain in the tiny crevices and cause 
inHammation of the intestines. 

Select the plain, graduated cell, without neck, 
wide -mouthed, covered with breast-nipple. Such a 
bottle can be thoroughly and easily cleaned. These re- 
<iuireraenta are met by the Hygeia nursing bottle. 

When filled, the bottles are corked with non-abaorbent cot- 
ton.' They are plugged loosely, so that the steam may es- 
cape, if the milk is pasteurized in the bottles before putting 
into the refrigerator, as is necessary when the quality of the 
milk is unknown or when refrigeration is lacking. Before 
feeding, the bottle of milk is warmed to 105° F. {-10.5° C), 
so that t!ie milk may not chill the stomach of the infant, and 
thereby suspend digestive processes. After the nursing, the 
bottle sliould be carefully rinsed with cold water, then bottle 
and nipple washed with a suds of soap and water. Einae, 
boil in clear borax water for twenty minutes (nipples for two 
or three minutes), and set away in a porcelain dish filled with 
boric acid solution, one teaspoonful to a quart of water, or 
they may be emptied and tilled with a plug of sterilized baked 
absorbent cotton, and will remain sterile until ready to use. 

The twenty-four-hour supply should be prepared at one 
time. For removing the milk from the bottle a dipper is 
most satisfactory, as the cream is not disturbed. A siphon 
may also be used. The milk sugar to be added should be 
dissolved in a little boiling water and strained. A bottle 
of sterile water should be at hand for diluting the milk. 
The proper number of bottles for the day's feedings (pre- 
viously sterilized) should be each filled witli the prescribed 
amount, stoppered and put in the refrigerator, or if necessary, 
pasteurized and then quickly cooled, 

'To cork the HygulB botlle. ■ BieriUiN cap is Died to coyEr ifas cell. 
The cap hu ft imBn opening, wbich i« corked with uoii-ibioTblng bdIIoh. 



1 



416 DIET IS SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

FORMULAE FOB ZHFAHT YEEDTSQ 

Uany srstems for perc<Dtage feeding of infants have beal 
evolved. One of the simplest is the top milk method. Til 
cr«am is allowed to rise. The upper third of the bottle era'I 
taining practically all the fat, will contain approximately wl 
per cent, of fat; the upper half 7 per cent, of fat. In ihf I 
upper third, the ratio of fat to protein is 3.1 ; iti the upper I 
half, S.l; in whole milk. 1.1 (approximately). 

TOP lOXK ICETHOO 
L Emmet Holt • 

Top-MGh. To secure a milk for infant feeding which ii 
fresh and at the same lime one which contains an extra 
amount of fat, the practice has come largely into vogne oi 
using the upper portion — a third, fourth, or fifth from milt 
purchased and delivered in bottles — -after it haa stood onlv 
a few hours. To this the term " top-milk " or " upper- 
milk " has heen given. Different percentages of fat may be 
obtained by varying the amount removed and the length of 
time the milk haa been allowed to stand. Top-milk and thin 
cream are practically identical in composition, although thej 
may differ in freshness. 

If cow's milk from a mixed herd is put into bottles soon 
after it is drawn and rapidly cooled, it will be found that 
after four hours the upper fourth will contain nearly all the 
fat that will rise as cream, and that the upper layers will have 
nearly the same percentage of fat whether the milk has stood 
for four hours, for eight hours, or over night. This has been 
demonstrated in a series of experiments made for me by 
Messrs. Upton & JefTers, at the Walker-Gordon Farm at 
Plainsboro, After the milk had been standing under the 
conditions mentioned, fat-testa were made with the Babcock 
apparatus of the different four-ounce layers of bottled milk 
which contained originally 4 per cent, of fat. The different 



rrlcht, 1 



bood." I 



INFANT FEEDING 417 

layers were carefully removed with a siphon, with the follow- 
ing results: 

Percentage of fat in — After four After eight Overnight. 

hours. hours. 

Upper 4 oz 20.50 21.25 22.00 

Second 4 oz 6.00 6.50 6.50 

Third 4 oz 1.50 1.40 1.00 

Fourth 4 oz 1.20 1.00 0.30 

Fifth 4 oz 1.00 1.00 0.20 

Each of these percentages represents the averages, each test 
having been repeated many times, 110 different tests in all 
having been made. It will be seen that after four hours 
the composition of the separate layers does not change very 
much with the period of standing. With this knowledge, it 
becomes a comparatively simple matter to secure almost any 
desired percentage of fat by simply varying the number of 
ounces removed from the upper part of the quart. 

This will of course not be the same with all milks, but 
will vary considerably according as the supply is from a good 
herd of selected cattle of mixed breeds (average 4 per cent, 
fat), a Jersey or Alderney herd (5.25 to 5.50 fat), or from 
widely scattered farms such as make up the general supply 
01 any large town or city (3.25 to 3.50). It is therefore 
absolutely necessary for the physician to know with which one 
of these he is dealing, if the milk for infant feeding is to 
be modified at home from the different layers of top-milk. 
More mistakes are made just here than at any other step in 
this method of feeding. 

The tables given below are suflBciently accurate for home 
modification, provided the fat percentage of the whole milk 
is known. 

From 4 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 16 oz., or 
about one-half. 



418 



DIET IX SPECIAL CONDITIONS • 



From 525 to 5.50 per cent. {Jersey) Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 15 oz., or 
nearly one-half. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 24 oz., or 
nearly three-fourths. 

From 3.25 to 3.50 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 8 oz., or 
about one-fourth. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

How to Obtain the Formulas Required for General Use, 
If one has at command three series or groups of formulas in 
which the fat has certain definite relations to the proteids, 
he will be equipped for the great majority of cases met with 
in practice. The three groups are as follows : 

First Series, those in which the fat is three tim.es the pro- 
teids. 

Second Series, those in which the fat is twice the proteids. 

Third Series, those in which the fat and proteids are 
nearly equal. 








ALL 
4% FAT 



Fig. 2. Chapin'fr 
dipper for re- 
moving the up- 

Fig. 1. The percentage of fat in different layers per layers of! 

of milk. milk 



INFANT FEEDING 419 

Once thoroughly familiar with these groups of formulas, 
Tariations from them to suit the needs of the particular case 
can readily be made. In general, the First and Second 
Series, in which the fat is considerably higher than the pro- 
teids, are adapted to the early months, because at this period 
the infant as a rule has more difficulty in digesting proteids 
than in digesting fat. In the later months a higher propor- 
tion of proteids can be taken with the same percentage of fat. 
There are, however, other conditions besides age which must 
he taken into account, such as the vigor of constitution, the 
weight, and most of all, the peculiarities of the child's diges- 
tion. It is, therefore, impossible to say that at certain 
months certain proportions are desirable, and certain others 
at another period. 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Three Times the Proteids. 
This is nearly the relation which the fat and proteids bear 
to each other in a good sample of woman's milk. The easiest 
way to arrive at this would seem to be, first, to secure some 
milk or milk combination containing three times as much fat 
as proteids, and then dilute this according to the infant's age 
and digestion. After such dilution it will be necessary only 
to add the requisite amount of sugar and, when desired, 
lime water to complete the modification. This, in brief, is the 
whole process. 

The most convenient combination for dilution is one con- 
taining 10 per cent, fat and 3.3 per cent, proteids. I ehall 
call it a 10 per cent, milk, and refer to it subsequently as 
the primary formula of the First Series. The 10 per cent, 
milk may be obtained by removing the upper portion (see 
Fig. 1) from a quart bottle of milk, as described (p. 41'!', 
418). This method will answer for persons who can obtain 
milk fresh from the cow, or for those who use bottled milk, 
provided the bottling is done at the dairy before the cream 
rises. The upper milk may be taken off with a siphon, spoon, 
or small dipper (Fig. 2); pouring off is not so accurate. 
For those who do not get their milk as above described, the 
additional fat can be secured by adding cream to the milk. 



I 



420 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

To secure a combination containing 10 per cent, fat^ equid 
parts of plain milk and the ordinary (16 per cent) cream 
should be used. 

The next step is the manner and degree of dilution of the 
primary formula. It is convenient in our calculation to 
make up twenty ounces of the food at a time. For such a 
twenty-ounce mixture it is seldom necessary to use less than 
two ounces of our 10 per cent. milk. When one wishes to 
strengthen the food he gradually increases the amount of the 
10 per cent, milk, one ounce at a time, making it successively 
three ounces, four ounces, five ounces, six ounces, etc., in a 
twenty-ounce mixture, the water, of course, being reduced 
by the same amount. 

These mixtures may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat is always exactly 
one-half the number of ounces of the 10 per cent, milk used 
in a twenty-ounce mixture. Thus, using three ounces will 
give 1.5 per cent, fat; four ounces, 2 per cent, fat; six 
ounces, 3 per cent, fat, etc. The proteids will continue to be 
in every instance exactly one-third the fat, as in the primary 
formula. 

The amount of milk sugar needed to bring this up to the 
p(»rccntage usually required (5.5 to 6.5) is one ounce in each 
twenty-ounce mixture. One may obtain from a druggist a 
box holding exactly one ounce of sugar, or may measure in a 
tablespoon, calculating two and one-half even tablespoonfuls 
as one ounce. This sugar is dissolved in the water used for 
di hi ting the milk. 

11ic usual proportion of limewater added is 5 per cent., or 
one ounce in a twenty-ounce mixture; this may be easily in- 
creased to any desired quantity. The foregoing directions 
may be expressed in the following table : 

First Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 3 :1. (See p. 421,) 

Primary Formula. 10 per cent, milk — or fat 10 per cent., 
sugar 4.3 per cent, proteids 3.3 per cent. Obtained (1) as 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (2) equal parts 
milk and (16 per cent.) cream. 



INFANT FEEDING 



421 



CO 

O 



«0 



•3 



'a 
•I 



4A 

a 
8s 

Ph m 

0) 

♦-> 

2 

o . 
go 

PU u 

a 

88 

PU| ^ 
Co 

«4-l 

n 

a 

o 



o 



(4 (4 

o o 



5s vO OOO '^ 

• • • • ■ 

9 4 9 a 3 

S8SSS 

• • , • • 

« 9 ^ ;s « 

• ■ • • « 

9 9 ;s ;s ;s 

II n 11 n II 

a 9 9 9 « 

a « ;s a 3 
a a ;s a 3 

• • • • • 

t) N t) N (9 

O O O O O 

« » 9 a « 






: o 

•4J 



J3 fe M» " » • • 

CO 4J • 

g ^ -a a « « n 

' — . — ' 

« • • • • « 

- |i||:::>>t:« 



i 












^.0 

pui'd 

.2 

P^ cS 



a 

• 

O 



• •••■•• 

a a a a a a a 

jq88SS88 

lo >d >d >d >d t^ t^ 
$1 a a a a a a 

• • • • • • • 

^^ ^ cs cs <s ro fO 

3 a a a a a a 

II II II II II II II 

a a a a a a a 
a a a a a a a 
a a a a a a a 



^ ««aii3«a 

■«■ - - 



8 



8 



8 

II 



3 



3 a a a a a a 

•^ lo o t^ 00 o\ O c^ 



S ^ ^ N . N ' 

•S O O Oil 333339 M^r% 

•k • • o 



• o 

^ V. Ui 

CO 



Jh U M ._ 

tJflrt d<3 3 3 3 3 3 3 §,"5 O* 

3 ^ U g ? M 

ga'83 333333ga'S 
S3^ sa& 



•I . 



Making more than a twenty-ounce mixture will be found 
very simple if we calculate for twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five 
ounces, etc. Thus for twenty-five ounces we add one-fourtk 



422 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

more of each ingredient ; for thirty ounces one-half more, e 
For twenty-five ounces of eleven, therefore, the exact formu 
would be : 10 per cent, milk, three and three-quarter oimcex 
milk sugar, one and one-quarter ounces ; lime water, one an^ 
one-quarter ounces; water q. s. to make twenty-five ounces - 
i. e., twenty ounces.^ 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Twice the Proteids. Here 
we first obtain a combination, or primary formula, in which 
the fat and proteids stand in the relation of two to one, and 
then dilute this, adding milk sugar and limewater to complete 
the modification. 

The primary formula most conveniently obtained for this 
purpose is one containing 7 per cent, fat and 3.5 per cent, 
proteids, or a 7 per cent. milk. This we may get by removing 
the upper portion from a quart bottle of milk, as described on 
page 418. Or in case milk and cream are used, instead of 
this upper milk, it will be necessary to add one part ordinary 
(16 per cent.) cream to three parts milk. The dilution is 
accomplished in the same general way as with the First 
Series. 

These formulas may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat in any formula is 
exactly seven-twentieths, or about one-third, the number of 
ounces of the 7 per cent, milk in a twenty-ounce mixture. 
Thus three ounces in the mixture will give about 1 per cent. 
fat; five ounces will give 1.6 per cent.; nine ounces about 3 
per cent., etc. In the following table these directions are 
expressed : 

Second Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 2 :1. 

Primary Formula. 7 per cent, milk — or fat 7 per cent., 
sugar 4.40 per cent., proteids 3.50 per cent. Obtained (1) as 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (2) by using three 
parts milk and one part (16 per cent.) cream. 

With these, as with the First Series, if more than twenty 

^ For method of calcnlatine any number of ounces of any formula derived 
from 10 per cent, milk, see footnote on page 428. 



INFANT FEEDING 



423 



B ounces are required, we may make twenty-five, thirty, or forty 
T ounces by using of each ingredient one-quarter more, one-half 
L more, or twice as much,^ 

Formulas m Which the Fat and Proteids are Nearly Equal. 
In general formulas are more often used for healthy infante 
during the later months; but there are many couditions of 
disturbed digestion in which formulas having this relation of 
fat and proteids are desirable during the early months. This 
series of formulas is obtained by using as a starting-point 
plain milk and variously diluting it. The exact percentages 
of fat and proteids obtained with the different dilutions of 
milk, and the amount of sugar necessary to bring this up to 
the desired quantity, are shown in the. table below. The sugar 
in the higher formulas is reduced for the reason that with 
them the child will probably be taking a considerable part of 
his carbohydrates in the form of starch. 

Third Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 8:7. 
Primary Formula. WTiole milk: Fat 4 per cent., sugar 
4,5 per cent., proteids 3.5 per cent. (When using Jersey or 
Aldcrney milk add one-fourth water.) 





424 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 









55 
I 









3 






■I 






c ^ 



o^ 



«fl 



§ w3 









H 



m 

O 

»o 



J3 



« « « 



O ''I o 

• • • 

» » « 

• • • 

« 3 3 

n n B 






3 






;s s 






n » » » 



3 3 3 

3 3s 

O 00 o 



3 



•-» « « « 



c 



3 3 

n II 

3 3 

3 3 






3 3 



e4 e4 

O O 






8» « 3 


N N N„ 

o o o" 


s 


t5v .<N 


o 


• o 


"*J 


• • ♦J 


to 


i: S to 


■ 


cd 43 • 


0*3 3 « 


Men 0** 


m 
'§3 « « 


ilk su 
me-w 
ater, 


^ 


S3^ 






X 
^ 



5t 












• • " • • • • 



o \ [::::[ : 

4> A) 'OSR 9 9 CS OQ ao CN 
^ qOO O O ^ OO O 

^£ i i i i f : i i 

&SSSS888S 

^ . - • • • • - • 

tJSSSSSSSS 
H H H a I I I 

CD 

^3 3 3 3 t: 

2. S » » 

«« » 3 3 ^ 

^ s 

^3333339 

a 

OSs 3 3 3 3 « « 

o 

^3 3 3 3 3 3 9 
CM 

X*3 3 3 3 3 « « 

a 

J^a 3 3 3 3 3 « 

Hm— I J^ •^ ^ »-< h4 



s 

In 

S 


n 
H 

1 


e9 


INFANT FEEDING 4 


1 

i 
i 
1 

n 
1 

J 


3 


||..S-S8«S5K^».H«SSSSSJ.S.« 


g 


§|S^^aS^„M««l?»s===«s«K*S 


!!-■ 




ii 

1 


g .S.S»x.S«.,SSS..».S.-.S.«gSS 


S . -. :«=S*oSS®. .S.J. =-S.SS|S 


g . ^. .SS. >«. „.K«. . =S. . . »Kii| 


|.=..^&._..„SS...^ 5SS? 


1 

s 


S Si5„..„SS.-,— ,SSSS 


« . .. S«SS?»*SS. S$S5. ».—»„». 


fi . S. »5S. K. ,„.„„.. SS. . . SiSHK 


s . - ...... 


U 

ss 


» 
J 


1 HaaSKSSKSSiRSSS8R»S = g2S8S88SS8g 


|8SiSSSSSSS88SSS«SS8SSSSSSS888SS 


^ SiS!88S8SSiKSS8SS8838S188888S8S8SS 





I 
\ 

« 



f 



4i6 
« •• " .. " .. " ^"Wwdi 

. "■« Wests " f " '• 



INFANT FEEDING 



TABU n 
ThMretiwl Butt for Pflodlar a Hwlthjr Xofast 











ProlodsiJ 






, B 












.plil. 


tt"™ 


I 


1 












J_ 


I 


1 


i 


SI 


-J 


leedini 


in 


III 




«. |c.e. 




Prema- 


00 


t 00 


o.;j 


0.2S o.js 


M-?i 


;s- 


1-iH w-18 




tnrc 


.50 


*..50 






» ozs 




.so 






term . 


.00 


s.oo 


o.so 




50 O.IS 




30 


2 ,0 




£nda[ 




















idwk. 


so 


















Eodol 




























































EaVo'f 


















JVota.— The data riv- 






















EiiVif 


■,9° 


7.00 


i.op 




90 O.W 


^ 


90* 


2H a 


riy a guldf lo the ml. 


Mhwk. 


M 


;.oo 


l.JS 




90 0.7S 


3H 


Oi 


IH 7 


age A (a)"hi,°bab y .ThTy 
aid cot inlcndfd to be 


Uth.k 


.00 


7,00 


i.io 




90 1.00 




20 


2M 7 
























00 


7.00 


l-SO 


7i 1.2J 




M 


IM J 


difficnll (etdinK, with- 
to the individnnl re- 


Endo( 


00 


,00 


100 






80 


3 6 




f™*^ 


.00 


700 


J.iO 






10 


3 6 




End if 


.00 


700 








40 






fo'mS' 




600 


300 






« 


3 6 




Eodoi 


















ILmo, 


00 
















End of 


00 


4.TS 


350 




10 


^«_ 


3 5 





428 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIOXS 

TABLE m 
Kethod of Caloolating Whey Mixtures from the Cud 

The percentages of fats, proteids, and lime-water are calculated bj 
the card. Three-fourths (Ji) of the proteid in the formula chose 
will be caseino^en, and one-fourth (Ji) whey proteids, that is. 
Formula callmg for 0.25 proteid give approximately 0.20 caseinogc. 
** ** ** 0.50 « « « O 40 ' 

« « 0.75 « « « 0.'50 

u « « 1.00 « « « 75 

« « « 1.25 « « « I'oo 

« ** " 1.50 " « « 1.20 

To calculate the additional amount of whey needed to make the de- 
sired whey-proteid percentage, 
Let W = number of ounces of whey needed. 
" Y= percentage of whey proteid desired. 
** P= proteid percentage in the card formula. 
" Q = total number of ounces of mixture. 



Then(i)W=Q (y^J . 



The maximimi in the percentage of whey proteids in any formula is 
obtained when all the watery diluent is replaced by whey. 
To calculate the sugar required beyond that contributed by the 
cream, milk, and whey, 
Let S= percentage of sugar desired. 
** L= number of measures, or level tablespoonfuls, of sugar to be 

added. 
** Z = sugar percentage as given in last column of feeding card 

Then(2)L=Q(§=f=^ 

Example: 5t Fat 4.00, sugar 7.00, whey proteid 0.90, caseinogen 0.75, 

lime-water 5.00. Amount, 20 oz. 
Solution: Formula 23 gives 0.75 caseinogen. Use 16% cream. 

Cream = 5 ounces. 

Fat-free milk = 1 

Whey = 20 [o.90--^] =13 " 

Lime-water = 1 " 

*^.i, 20(7— 1.42) — 5X13 ,,.,,.y. 

Milk sugar = — ^ ^ =1.16 (IVo) measures. 



INFANT FEEDING 



429 



TABLE IV 







Caloric Value of Formulae OlYen on Card 




No. 






No. 




No. 




1. 


334 calories. 


11. 555 calories. 


21. 642 calories. 


2. 


344 


u 


12. 566 


u 


22. 648 


« 


3. 


401 


u 


13. 576 


u 


23. 690 


« 


4. 


411 


.« 


14. 606 


u 


24. 710 


a 


5. 


421 


u 


15. 626 


u 


25. 720 


tt 


6. 


452 


u 


16. 591 


u 


26. 741 


« 


7. 


458 


u 


17. 601 


u 


27. 762 


« 


8. 


488 


u 


18. 631 


u 


28. 782 


« 


9. 


520 


u 


19. 642 


u 


29. 741 


« 


10. 


545 


a 


20. 653 


u 


30. 720 


tt 



To Estlinate the Caloric Value of Food Taken. 

Example : An infant takes 6 feedings of 210 c.c each of Formula 
25, the caloric value of which is 720. The caloric value of the food 
ingested is, then, 

^j^ X 720 = 906.2 calories. 



To Estimate Weight Development of an Infant. 

To estimate the weight development of any infant, calculate as fol- 
lows: — 

Weight of an infant 

Weight index « 

Weight of average infant of same age 
Example: An infant of 18 weeks weighs 12 lbs. 

Its weight index =«i%4=*.85. Its weight development =» .85X100» 
85 per cent. 



430 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

TABLE y 

ICethods of Calonlating approzimately the Percentasre Compoiitia| 
of a Food from Known Amounts of Inflrredients used 

Let C= number of ounces of cream used. 
" M = number of ounces of fat-free milk used. 
" L = number of measures of milk sugar (or level tablespoonfuls).! 
" Q = total quantity of mixture in ounces. 

Then (1) Fat percentage ^CXfatperc^tageof creart 

(2 ) Proteid percentage = — — 



(3) Sugar percentage = 



Q 

4.75 (C+M)+40 L. 



If whole milk is used in place of fat-free milk, add to the quotient in 
(1) the amount of fat contributed by the whole milk, M* standing for 
number of ounces used; i. e., 

(4) Fat percentage in milk = — pr — * 

Example: A 20-ounce mixture consists of 7 ounces of 10 per cent 
cream, 2 ounces of fat-free milk, 1 ounce of lime-water, 10 ounces of 
boiled water, 2Ji measures of sugar. 

7X10 
Solution: Fat percentage = — ^^r — =3.50%. 

Proteid « .3J0gt2)^^5y^^ 

Sugar « , 4.75(7+2R40X2K .,^^^j 

The fat percentage of cream must be calculated by reference to the 
cream table, page 426. 

Infant Pood — Modified Milk Pormula 

6 ounces cream. 4 ounces lime water. 

7 teaspoons sugar of milk. 18 ounces filtered or boiled 
1 % teaspoons Gum Gluten Flour. water. 

Thin gluten with a little cold water then add to the boiled water 
and let boil 15 minutes. When cool add to the other ingredients. 
This formula is for 4 full sized bottles or enough for ten feedings, 
infant being fed every two hours through the 24. As child grows 
older, reduce the amount of cream replacing the same with milk. 




INFANT FEEDING 431 

.iniLAE FOK PKEPABIKO INFANT FOOD FBOX PTTBE STEE- 

ILIZED SUOAB OF lOLK 

»h, Pure Milk, 1 ounce. 

(about 2 tablespoonfuls) 
id. esh Cream, 1^ ounces. 

(about 3 tablespoonfuls) 
agar of Milk, 3^ drachms. 

(4 even teaspoonfuls) 
Lcarbonate of Sodium, 1 grain, 

(or use fresh limewater, 2 teaspoonfuls) 
Vater, 5 ounces. 

(11/4 gills) 

Mix enough for one day's use, and sterilize. Be sure feeding bot- 
tles, nipples, etc., are kept perfectly clean. 

^i SCHEME FOB FEEDING BABIES 

Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City i 

First Day, — Give from nursing bottles 30 C.C. (1 ounce) of 6 per 

cent, sugar water every 3 hours, from 6:45 p. m. to 9:45 p. M., 
'-" inclusive, and if necessary one bottle at 3:45 A. m. 

' Second Day. — 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to IV2 ounce) of Formula No I 

in nursing bottle, every 2 hours from 6:45 A. M. to 10:45 P. M., 

and 3:45 A. M. — ten feedings. 
Third Day. — Same as second day. 
Fourth Day. — If there is milk in mother's breast, nurse every 2 

hours as on second day. If there is no milk in mother's 

breast, 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to ll^ ounce) of Formula No. 

II every 2 hours, as on second day. 
Fifth and Sixth Day. — For breast fed babies ten feedings as in second 

day. For bottle fed babies same as fourth day. 
Seventh to Fourteenth Days. — For breast fed babies ten feedings. 

For bottle fed babies 30 to 75 C.C. (1 ounce to 2^2 ounces) of 

Formula No. Ill for ten feedings. 

Formulae 

Sugar Solution 6 per cent.: 

Take 30 grams (1 ounce) sugar of milk and dissolve in 500 C.C. 
(1 pint) boiled water. 

Formula No. I 

Fat, 0.6 per cent.; sugar, 6 per cent.; proteid, 0.6 per cent.: 
Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts. 

• 1 Diet used at the Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City. 



432 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS \ 

\ 

Plain milk 1 part, 60 C.C. (2 ounces) lime water for every 5M| 
C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture. 

FOBMULA No. II 

Fat, 1 per cent.; sugar, 6 per cent.; proteid, 0.5 per c&nt.: \ 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts; 12 per cent, cream im- 
part; milk *^ part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food [ 
mixture. 

Formula No. Ill 

Fat, 1.5 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.5 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 

part. 60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of 

food mixture. 

Formula No. IV 

Fat, 2 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.6 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 5 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 

part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 

mixture. 

Formula No. V 

Fat, 2.6 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.8 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 4 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 

part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 

mixture. 

Notes 

1. For every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture add 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) of lime water. 

2. 12 per cent, cream is the top fifth of a bottle of milk after stand- 
ing about 5 hours. 

3. It is the top 200 C.C. (7 ounces) of 1,000 C.C. (1 quart) of 
milk after standing about 5 hours. 

4. If the milk is of rich quality the top 240 C.C. (8 ounces) can 
be taken. 

6. Up to two weeks the amount of each feeding is 30 C.C. (1 
ounce) to 76 C.C. (2^2 ounces) according to weight, digestion and 
capacity. 

From two to five weeks the amount of each feeding is 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) to 100 C.C. (3^ ounces). 

Number of daily feedings 10. From 6:45 a.m. to 10:45 P. i£. 
From 10:46 p.m. to 6:46 a. M., one feeding should suffice. 



w 



INFANT FEEDING 



7EPT0GENIC MILE FOWSEa UOSIFIES COW'S UILE 

by a physiological procesa, makes the casein of cows' milk boI- 

uble and digestible like the proteins of mothers' milk, and 

gives a food for infants which behaves in the stomach like the 

food that Xafure provides under favorable conditions. 

DiTcctlon* for TTsIilk Peptog-Enic Uilk Powder 

Formula So. 1 — For Infanta of Firtt Few Weeka 

Milk, ey^ oza. i% cup}. Cream, 1 oi- (or "top" milk, 2 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 cupa). om.). 

Peptogenic Milk Powder, ly^ 

The bottle cop is the n 

Place the Peptc^nic Milk Powder into a clean Baucepan, add the 
pure cold water, mix perfectly; add the fresh cold milk and cream; 
mix well and heat with constant atirring until "lukewarm" (95 to 
100° F.), not too hot to be agreeably borne by the mouth; keep at 
about lukewarm for 8 minutes, then bring quickly just to bailing 
point in the open saucepan, or " pasteurise " by heating to only IQO- 
165° F.; pour at once into a clean bottle, cork tightly, shake thor- 
oughly and put on ice or in a. very cold place. 

When a feeding is required, pour out the portion and warm to 
proper temperature for nursing; always sbake the bottle well before 
and after pouring out a feeding. 

Formula Xo. 2 — For Infanta From 1 (o 6 Months 
Milk, 8 ozH. (1 cup) Cream, l-ly^ozB. (3 tebleapoonfuls). 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 eupa| Peptogenie Milk Powder, l-Hi measure. 
Feat this milk mixture to about lukewarm (05-100° F.) and keep 
ot this temperature for 5 minutes, then bring quickly juat to boiling 
point, or '' pasteurize " by heating to only 160-165° F. 

Formula So. 3~For Infants From Months to 1 Year 
Milk, 16 ozs. (2 cu])9) Cream, 2 ozs. (4 tableapoonfula) , 

Water, 16 ozs. Peptogenie Milk Powder, 2 

Prepare this milk mixture precisely as in Formula No. 



1 




CHAPTER XXTT 
THE FEEDIHG OF TOTOG CHILDBEH 

Whether the child be fed at the breast or with the bottle, the 
period from the tenth to the fifteenth month is usually one 
of transition. For the breast-fed baby it is often more critical 
than for the artificially fed, as the former has now to become 
accustomed to cow's milk and to a different method of feeding 
at the same time, unless it has been on mixed feeding or has 
learned to take water from a bottle. By the ninth month, 
bottle-fed infants may have cereals added to the milk in the 
form of thoroughly cooked gruel. By the beginning of the 
first year, there may be added to the diet strained cereals in 
the form of jelly, stale bread, zwieback or toast, soft-cooked 
egg (especially the yolk), and thin cream. Throughout the 
growing period, every child should get at least one quart of 
milk a day. Milk supplies the elements of growth liberally 
and in readily available forms. Orange juice or prune pulp 
should be given daily. By the twentieth month, systematic 
training in chewing should begin. In the latter part of the 
second year, well-cooked, strained or finely-mashed, easily- 
digested vegetables are added to the diet, and any mild fruit, 
cooked (or fresh if in perfect condition) and free from in- 
digestible residues, may be given in moderate quantities. If 
a distaste for milk arises, the variety of -other foods should 
be cut down and every effort made to lead the child back to 
it. Too much other food, especially if highly flavored, is fre- 
quently the cause of this dislike. 

Meat is undesirable for young children, and should not be 
given before the fourth year, and preferably not till the eighth 
or ninth year, as sufficient protein is obtainable from milk and 
eggs. Sweet fruits, as prunes and dates, are preferable to 

434 



THE FEEDING OF YOVNQ CHILDREN 435 

pare sugar, as they contain valuable ash conetituents ajid are 
less likely to deetroy the taste for other proper food. 

Tea, coffee, beer, and even cocoa except occasionally and 
very weak, should be proiiibited. The child should no more 
expect to eat the same food aa an adult than to dress like one. 
But his diet should be limited in quality rather than quantity, 
as he requires much more in proportion than an adult on 
account of his requirements for growth and his great activity. 
Up to five years of age, about eighty calories per kilogram 
Ecems to be desirable. 

A well-known dispensary sends out printed instructions for 
the people of its neighborhood, prohibiting all eating between 
meals, and forbidding all pastry, coffee, tea, alcoholics and 
carbonated drinks, in the case of children of any age. 

Those under seven years of age are allowed no preserved 
meats or fish, no hot bread, griddle cake, or nuts, no corn, 
cuciunbers or egg plant. 

For those under four years no atewa, tomatoes, bananas, or 
any fruit in hot weather. 

Children up to the age of eighteen months are to be limited 
entirely to milk, meat broths, orange juice and cooked and 
strained cereals; with, in exceptional cases, zwieback, biscuit 
and Boft-eooked eggs. 

Such education means much for the development of hardy 
men and women. Undernutrition is not due alone to pov- 
erty ; much of it comes from ignorance. 

GENERAL UTILES FOE EEEDIKG YOUNG CHILSIREII 
ThompsOD I 

1. Allow time for meals. 

2. See that the food is thoroughly masticated. 

3. Do not allow nibbling between meals. 

4. Do not tempt the child with the sight of rich and in- 
digestible food. 

5. Do not force the child to eat agaiuBt ita will, but esam- 

'W. GilmBB Thoropion, M.D.; "Practical Dielatio." Xew York. D. 
Appleton k Co. 



436 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



ine the month, which may be sore fnnn emptiiig teeth: ad 
examine the food, which may not be properly cooked ot 
flavored. If good food is refnsed from peeTishness merdy, 
remove it and do not offer it again before the next time. 
G. In acute illness reduce and dilute the food at once. 



Table of Comparisons, Pood Keqaired by Child and 

A child under 2 requires 0.3 the food of a man doin^ moderate 
work. 

A child of 3 to 5 requires 0.4 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 6 to 9 requires 0.5 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 10 to 13 requires 0.6 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A girl of 14 to 16 requires 0.7 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A boy of 14 to 16 requires 0.8 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

Prof. W. O. Atwateb. 



Table showing: 


Increase 


of Calories 


required for a 
Carbo- 


Growing Child 


AOE. 


Pboteid. 


Fat. 


hydrates. 


Caxortka. 


yearH. 


grammes. 


grammes. grammes. 




iy« 


42.5 


35.0 


100 


909.7 


2 


45.5 


36.0 


110 


972.4 


3 


50.0 


38.0 


120 


1050.4 


4 


53.0 


41.5 


135 


1156.8 


5 


56.0 


43.0 


145 


1224.0 


8 to 9 


60.0 


44.0 


150 


1270.0 


12 to 13 


72.0 


47.0 


245 


1736.8 


14 to 15 


79.0 


48.0 


270 


1877.3 



IIiJTCiiiBON, p. 453. ScHBOEDEB, ArcfUv, fur Hygiene, iv. 39, 1886. 

DIETAKIES POK YOTTNO CHILDKEN 

Starr 1 

Diet from the twelfth to the eighteenth month: 

7 A. M., stale bread soaked in a breakfast eup of new milk. 
10 a. m., milk, six ounces, and soda biscuit, or a thin slice of but- 
tered bread. 

^Louii Starr, M.D.: ** Hygiene of the KurMry." Philadelphia. Blak- 
iiton. 



1 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 437 

2 P. M., beef tea, six ounces, bread, and a tableapoontul of rice 
and milk pudding. 

a P.M., same as S rat meal. 

10 p. u., a tablexpuonful of Mcllins' Food in eight ounces of milk- 
In alternation, a lightly bailed egg with bread crumbs und six 

ounces of milk may be given at 7 A. M., and at 2 p. u. a mashed 
baked potato, moistened with four tabtespoonfula of beef tea, two 
tablespoonfuls of junket. 
Diet from the eighteenth to the thirtieth month: 

7 A. M., new milk, eight ounces; the yolk of an egg lightly boiled; 
two thin elicea of bread and butter, or else milk, and two table* 
epoonfuls of well-cooked oatmeal or wfaeaten grits, with sugar and 
cream. 

11 A. If., milk, six ounces, with a soda biscuit or bread and butter. 
2 p. M., one talilespoonful of rare mutton pounded to a paste, 

bread and butter, or mashed potatoes moistened with good dish 
gravy, a saucer of junket; or else a breakfast cupful of beef tea or 
mutton or chicken broth, a thin slice of stale bread, a saucer of rice 
and milk pudding. 

6:30 P.M., a breakfast cupful of milk with bread and butter, or 
soft milk toast. 

Diet from tico and a half to three and a half years of age; ehildrtH 
who have cut their milk teeth: 
7 A. M., one or two tumblers of milk, a saucer of thoroughly cooked 
oatmeal or wheaten grits, a slice of bread and butter. 

11 A. u. (if hungry) , a tumbler of milk or a teacupful of beef tea 
with a biscuit. 

2 p. M,, a slice of underdone roast beef or mutton, or a bit of roast 
chicken or turkey, minced as fine hb possible, a mashed baked potato 
moistened with dish gravy, a slice of bread and butler, a saucer of 
junket or rice and milk pudding. 

7 p. M., a tumbler of milk and a slice or two of soft milt toast. 
Diet from three and a half years up: 

Breakfast. — Every day: milk, porridge nnd cream, bread and 
butter. 
One dish only each day: Fresh fish, eggs lightly boiled, 
poached, eggs scrambled, eggs (plain omelet), chicken hash, 
riewed kidney, stewed liver. 
Sound fruit may be allowed before and after the meal, accord- 
ing to taste, as oranges without pulp, grapes (seeds not to be 
Bwallowed), peaches, thoroughly ripe pears, and cantaloupes. 
Dinner. — Every day; Clear soup, meat roasted or broiled and 
cut into small pieces, bread and butter. 



438 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Two dishes each day: Potatoes baked^ i>otatoes mashed, 
spinach, stewed celery, cauliflower, hominy, macaroni (plain), 
peas, string beans (young), green corn (grated). 

Junket, rice and milk or other light puddings, and occasionally 
ice cream, may be allowed for dessert. 
Supper. — Every day: Milk, with toast or bread and butter, 
stewed fruit. 

From the third to the fifth year the child has twenty teeth, 
and often three meals a day suffice, although from the third to 
the fourth year four may be given. After three years of age 
it is not possible to lay down definite rules for the quantity 
of food allowed. In health the appetite may be taken as a 
fair guide, and the child will not eat too much if taught to 
eat very slowly, and thoroughly chew each mouthful. 

When the second set of teeth begin to replace the deciduous 
or milk teeth, which gradually decay, digestion is sometimes 
interfered with temporarily, from lack of ability to masticate 
thoroughly, and food should be subdivided before it is offered 
to the child. 

OENEEAL PEINCIPLES OF FEEDING SICK CHILDREIT 

Since this work has been chiefly devoted, as the title im- 
plies, to the relationship between diet and disease, the amount 
of space given to the feeding of presumably normal children 
may occasion some wonderment. But the chief difference be- 
tween the dietetics of the infant and adult lies in the fact that 
the bottle infant and the weanling, nominally healthy, have 
to be dieted to prevent disease. This has now come to be 
realized on all sides. In classic and mediaeval times an infant 
which could not get breast milk usually perished. The wean- 
ing period was somewhat less trying, but millions of children 
must have succumbed to the ordeal of changing to solid food. 
Improvement in feeding means a direct lessening of infant 
mortality, as modern statistics testify. 

Colic and Vomiting (Eegurgitation) are almost physiolog- 
ical, so common is their occurrence; they do not arise from 
any single cause, and the fact that breast-fed infants suffer 
almost as frequently as the bottle-fed, often more so, shows 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 439 

that such nilmentB are not entirely preventable by care in feed- 
ing. In breast-fed children, these symptoms are heat con- 
trolled by lengthening the period between feedings. In hottle- 
fed children, besides lengthening the nursing interval, special 
pains should be taken in the modification of the milk. These 
symptoms may occur quite independently of diet. Chilling 
of the body surface, coughing, improper handling, a too snug 
binder, rtc, may be the true cause of the trouble. Even in 
breast-fed infants under ideal conditions, the mother's milk 
may not be well-bome. It may in fact be so rich in fat and 
protein as to require dilution; which of course in the breast- 
fed may be accomplished only by giving the infant water be- 
fore or after nursing. 

Gavage. Of late years the use of the stomach sound in. 
feeding sick nurslings has come into considerable vogue in 
foundling asylums and the like. This resource has a con- 
siderable range of application. Thus in premature infanta 
(which do not nurse readily) ; in all infants which refuse to 
nurse : and in infants sick from any cause, especially when the 
nerve centers, swallowing or breathing apparatus are involved, 
or when continuous vomiting is present, the use of the stom- 
acli tube may save life. Very young babies are fed much 
more readily than older ones, since tliey are less liable to 
fright. The tube used is a soft rubber catheter, which is 
coupled with a small funnel. The catheter is first passed 
down the gullet. In order to have plenty of leeway, it is an 
advantage to unite the catheter to a second rubber tube with 
a piece of glass tubing. The second rubber tube is then 
coupled to the funnel. If the ease be one of vomiting, it is 
often necessary to wash out the stomach before the introduc- 
tion of nourishment, however given. The term lavage, used 
for washing out the stomach, must not be confounded with 
gavage, which means literally forced feeding. Complete de- 
tails will be found in works on obstetrics and obstetric nurs- 
ing. Edgar says of gavage, that the infant to be fed should 
lie on its back in the nurse's arms, its own arms held to its 
aides, while an extra assistant steadies the head. The tube 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

having been passed, the modified milk or other nntriment it 
poured into the funnel, and as the latter empties itself Sie 
tube is pinched to prevent escape. ^Vhile regurgitation nuj 
occur and necessitate a repetition of the act, it very ohoi 
happens that food taken in this manner is much better re- 
tained than if taken by nursing the breast or bottle. The 
exertion required by nursing, the swallowing of air, etc., are 
avoided in gavage. To recapitulate, the conditions in which 
gavage has been found life saving, are given by Edgar in the 
following order: 

Prematurity (especially in incubator babies) ; after open- 
tions on the nose and throat; habitual vomiting; pneumonia, 
diphtheria and scarlet fever. The jaws of the nursling can 
usually be separated to receive the gavage-tube. But if there 
is inflammation of the mouth or locking of the jaws (or if 
intubation has been required for diphtheritic cases) it may be 
necessary to resort to nasal feeding {see p. 79). 

Diarrhea. Under this familiar term, which includes the 
mildest looseness of the bowels as well as the severest symp- 
toms of cholera and dysentery, may be included the greater 
part of the morbidity of the nursling. Death certificates of 
babies, especially in summer months, chiefly specify this cause. 
Tlie diarrhcea makes itself felt in a variety of ways. If con- 
joined with vomiting we may term it a gastro-enteritis, and 
state that a given child died from inability to profit by its 
nourishment. But many infants succumb, not because their 
nourishment is rejected outright, but rather from the fact that 
it is not utilized. We can understand death when due to vio- 
lent vomiting and diarrhcea; but the slow death from non- 
utilizfttion of food, such as occurs so extensively in boitle-fed 
tenement house children, still remains largely a mystery, which 
has been explained in the most diverse ways. The amount 
and character of gastro-intestinal disturbance present is not 
BuflScicnt, in many cases at least, to explain the total failure 
of nutrition. It is in the effort to combat this condition that 
HO many methods of feeding have come into use. As in all 
Btubborn and imperfectly understood conditions, with a bad 




I TEE FEEDING OF YOUNG CUILDREN 441 

r 

outlook for recovery, many substances have been tested, and 
many recoveriea have been recorded. If a threatening diar- 
rhcea appears, with or without vomiting, the best course to 
pursue at first seems (o be fasting. Sterile water may be al- 
lowed but milk is prohibited. It 13 believed by some 
authorities that cow's milk or the milk of any animal is poi- 
sonous in these cases. Others would state that milk is danger- 
ous liecause of one or another solid ingredient, or because it 
furnishes a j:ulture medium for germs. In any case some pre- 
digested food like panopepton, or some cerea! decoction like 
rice or barley water seems better borne. It may also be ad- 
visahle at this stage to use certain drugs to control vomiting. 
When the latter has ceased for twenty-four hours, normal feed- 
ing may be cautiously resumed. The treatment of these cases 
tases the utmost resources of the physician, and the mortality 
is enormous. The nurse's duties lie rather in the direction 
of prevention ; but if these eases develop, rest of the stomach 
is imperative at first and milk must not be resumed until all 
symptoms are passed. Diarrhcea, dysentery and all gastro- 
intestinal troubles in older children are dieted on the same 
principles as are the same affections in adults. 

Constipation in nurslings is a condition difficult to over- 
come entirely by diet. The familiar remedies are sugar and 
cream, an excess of either of which, over dietetic requirements, 
may loosen the bowels. A prescription of laboratory milk 
may meet this obstacle, or the corresponding home modifica- 
tion. Fruit juices, oatmeal gruel, etc., are sometimes em- 
ployed. 

Marasmus and Rickets are two conditions generally in- 
cluded under diseases amenable to diet. Infantile Scurvy 
should be named in the same connection. There is no special 
regimen, however, for such affections, A full normal diet 
cannot he improved on. 



1 



CHAPTEK XXITT 
THE ADOLESCOrr — THE SEDEHTAKT — Tme aSED 

DIXT FOR TEE ADOISSCZST 

The growing youth needs extra protein food for the build- 
ing of protoplasm and a sufficiency of salts for the rapidly- 
forming tissues ; earthy salts for bones, iron for blood, pho8- 
phoms for nervous tissne and its general influence on growth, 
obtained from the average liberal mixed diet with Tnillr^ eggs, 
fresh fruit and green vegetables, so that no special plan of 
feeding is required. If the adolescent lead a very active ex- 
istence, equivalent to hard labor in an adult, he will naturallv 
require the same amount of food with necessary reduction for 
weight, and some allowance for extra protein. Many ado- 
lescents, however, are very sluggish and lead inactive lives, and 
need encouragement to activity, with food in proportion to 
its degree. Again the appetite is not always a safe guide, 
especially for girls; for the period of adolescence coincides 
with the development of " hysterical ^^ tendencies which may 
be manifested by excessive or diminished craving for food 
without any reference to the actual physical demands. An 
active adolescent may have but little appetite while a slug- 
gish one may be a glutton, or may continually drink water. 
The perverted cravings for substances of no nutritive value 
and without appetizing quality, which accompany this period, 
are well known. It is therefore necessary that the diet of this 
period be as carefully supenrised as that for the little child. 
The food must conform to the subject's physical requirements, 
and must be administered with discretion, for a large percent- 
age of food aversions are acquired at this time, and it is es- 
Bential to the well-being of the individual, and the comfort 
of others, that his eating habits be normal* 

442 



THE SEDENTARY 443 

DIET FOR TEE SEDEKTART 

No exact rules can be laid down for the dietetics of the 
sedentary. An individual may lead a teohnically sedentary 
life, and yet use up a great amount of energy, only standing 
and walking uuscles being in disuse just as in a person whose 
occupation retjuires standing and walking, little use may be 
made of arm, shoulder and trunk muscles. A better distinc- 
tion is between out-door and in-door life, or quiet and active 
existence. True sedentary persons lead both a quiescent and 
an in-door existence, chiefly in the sitting posture. The less 
the exertion, the less the requirement for food. Excess of 
food over actual demands is usually mauifeeted by the putting 
on of flesh or by the development of indigestion or metabolic 
disturbances. In theory there should be no such thing as a 
permissible diet for the sedentary, because no one should 
allow himself to lead a purely quiescent existence. It is pos- 
sible to compress a good deal of active exercise in a couple 
of hours of llie twenty-four, so that the sedentary person passes 
virtually into the next class above, corresponding to light 
active labor extending through a number of hours. 

While individual estimates vary, it is probable that 1600- 
2000 calories sufRce for the average individual on the usual 
basis of 145 pounds weight with the usual reduction for sex. 
As the sedentary person finds it difficult to digest heavy arti- 
cles of food, the food should be easily digestible. Fruit and 
succulent vegetables (salads) are usually well borne by seden- 
taiy people, as they induce daily evacuations of the bowels, 
and are not fattening. They are the reverse of condensed 
and highly nutritious foods. 

DIET FOR THE AGED 

As there is a radical distinction between a person merely 
old in years and one who is actually senile, no dietary can 
be devised to suit the case of all those of advanced years. A 
man is technically old at sixty. In theory he should require 
less protein in proportion to carbohydrates than a younger 
man. Many people of both sexes, however, preserve their 



444 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

working capacity far into the sixties and even into thesei^ 
tifs. Many people can put on flesh up to the age of sir 
and it is very important that they do not do so. Their ri- 
men shouhl be practically that of the corpulent. After ti 
age of sixty the wciglit may remain at an equilibrium for sot- 
years, or with the advent of senile chang-e, the flesh mayW 
gin to disappear, this loss being physiological. At this peri-^ 
less depends on the selection of food than on the quaiti:; 
and thoroughn(?as of mastication. An active, healthy m 
can preserve his condition by cutting down the amount oi 
food greatly, and chewing it thoroughly. The demand fo: 
protein will very likely be satisfied with a small quantity! 
The total fuel requirement will depend upon wliether the it- 
dividual exercises or leads a sedentary life. Sedentary elderb 
people can subsist on very little food, and do not differ mud 
in this respect from middle-aged sedentary people. 

A senile person is practically an invalid, and his dietetic 
demands do not differ greatly from those of other invalids 
(aside from the convalescent). If the teeth are more or less 
useless, and mastication cannot be effected by the gums, the 
individual becomes a confirmed dyspeptic. The problem of 
starch digestion becomes a serious one. Milk can be used 
largely. 

In theory sugars could partially replace starches. An ex- 
cellent food under the circumstances is toasted bread, which 
may be dipped in coffee to soften it. In toast the starch be- 
comes changed to dextrin, which is but one step removed from 
sugar. Well-cooked cereals, vegetables (potatoes, greens, etc.) 
and fruits may be used in small quantities in the expectation 
that they will be digested by the pancreatic juice. 

Special Eegimen : As already suggested, this cannot differ 
in kind from that of the confined invalid or dyspeptic. 

DIETi: Soup, — Nutritious soups, such as chicken or fish punfe^ 
beef tea, mutton or chicken broth. Purees of all kinds. 

Fish. — White fish as sole, whiting, smelts, flounders, etc. (best 
when boiled). 

^Food suitable for the Aged Aeeording to Yeo. 



TEE AGED 445 

Eggs, — Egg lightly cooked, or beaten up with milk, etc. 

Meats. — Young and tender chicken and game. Other tender 
meats. Potted chicken, game and other potted meats. Sweetbreads, 
bacon grilled. 

Farinaceous. — Bread and butter (bread at least a day old) to be 
soaked in tea or milk or water. Bread and milk, porridge and oat- 
meal gruel. Puddings of ground rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago, maca- 
roni. Prepared foods consisting of predigested starches. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes, carrots, spinach and other succulent veg- 
etables, stewed celery, boiled onions. 

Desserts. — Fruit jellies, stewed or baked fruit. Pulp of perfectly 
ripe raw fruit in small quantity, farinaceous puddings. 

Liquids. — Milk in all forms, and with the addition of warm Vichy 
or warm water, fruit juice. 



RUMFORD 

"THE WHOLESOME" 

Baking Powder 

BEST of the HIGH GRADE Powders. 



Fureand Wholesome. Rumford is different from and 
superior to all other powders, it beinfr made of tiie gem 
Professor Horsford's phosphate, thus supplying the food with 
an elciaent, the strength-^ ving phosphates, absolutely 
sary to health. Fioe wheat flour is of little value as a, strength- 
ening food because it is deprived of its phosphates ia boltlDg. 
Rumford Baking Powder supplies these phosphates. 

Perfect Baking Quality. Its action in the dough is 

thorough, making cake, biscuit, muffins, etc., of the finest 
texture, whieh will retain their fresh Condition longer than 
wheo made with ordinary baking powder or cream tartar. 

No "BfiMtiff Powder" taste. Rumford contains no 
alum or cream tartar and gives no bitter or "baking powder" 
taste to the food. Biscuit, etc., made with it retain the 
natural flavor of the grain and it will not impair the most 
delicate flavoring used in cake, etc. 

Eiery Can Warranted. Rumford will retain Its 
strength indefinitely and we guarantee every can to ^re 

satisfaction or money refunded. 

Reaaonnhle Price, Recent improvements enable ns 
to sell Rumford at a reasonable price, much less than the 
ordinary high-priced powders. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Main Olftcea, Providence, R. I. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



tt 






it 



A. 

Acid Beverages . 

Acid Phosphate . . 
Acid Phosphate Whey 
Apple Water . 
Apollinaris Lemonade . 
Bran Lemonade 
Cream of Tartar Drink 
Currant Water . . 
Effervescent Lemonade 
Egg Lemonade . 
Fruit Lemonade 
Fruit Punch . . . 
Fruitade .... 
Grape Juice . . . 

Lemonade . 

Lithia 

Nectar . 

Water 
Irish Moss Lemonade . 
Jelly and Ice . . 
Lemonade .... 
Lemon Whey . 
Malted Milk Currant Jelly 
Malted Milk with Wine 
Orangeade .... 
Orangeade No. II . 
Pineapple Juice 
Pineapple Lemonade . 
Rhubarb Water 
Soda or Apollinaris Lem 

onade 

Tamarind Malted Milk 
Tamarind Water . 
Tea Punch .... 
Tutti Frutti Punch . 
Wine Whey .... 
Acid Phosphate (Hors 
ford's) .... 
Acid Phosphate 
Add Phosphate Whey 



PAGB 

110 

113 

113 

115 

111 

111 

114 

115 

111 

121 

111 

117 

112 

116 

112 

116 

116 

115 

112 

114 

111 

113 

114 

114 

112 

112 

113 

111 

115 

111 
116 
115 
116 
117 
113 

478 
113 
113 



PAGB 

Albuminous Beverages . 118 
Albumin Water . . .122 
Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 



Milk 
Orange 
Sherry 
Water 

Beef Egg-nog . . 

Coffee Egg-nog 

Egg Broth . . . 
*^ Lemonade . 

Egg-nog .... 

Egg-nog No. II 

Egg and Brandy . 
" and Rum . 
*' and Wine . 

Grape Yolk 

" Juice and Egg 

Junket Egg-nog 

Malted Milk and Egg 

Mulled Wine . 

Pineapple Egg-nog 

Stokes' Mixture 
Albuminous Jellies 

Beef Jelly . 

Calf's Foot Jelly . 

Chicken Broth Jelly 

Panopepton Jelly 



€i 



Jelly with Orange 209 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
" Wine Jelly 

Apples 
Apple Cuban Style 

Custard 

and Prunes 

Tapioca . 

Water . 
Baked Apples . 
Stewed Apples 



«€ 
€€ 



122 
123 
123 
122 
120 
120 
118 
121 
119 
119 
120 
120 
120 
121 
122 
119 
121 
122 
120 
121 
221 
222 
221 
222 
208 



207 
205 

280 
288 
280 
300 
115 
279 
279 



Apricot and Prune Sauce 280 



447 



448 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Arrowroot Gruel . 

asparaqus on toast 

Soup . . 

Boiled Asparagus . 

Creamed Asparagus 

B. 



PAGE 

. . 238 
. 268 

223-224 
. 267 
. 268 



« 



(( 



Bacon, Broiled . . . .151 

Curled Bacon .... 151 
Baked Custards 

Baked or Cup Custard . 288 

Caramel Custard . 290 

Custard No. II . 289 

Chocolate Custard . . 289 

Malted Milk Custard . . 290 

White Custard ... 289 

Baking Powder (Rumford) 

446 

Bananas Baked . 280 

Banana Custard . . 288 
Barley 

Barley Gruel .... 238 

" Gruel with Broth 238 



t€ 






Gruel or Jelly . 238 
Jelly .... 244 
Water .... 124 
Water (for In- 
fants) 125 

Bavarian Cream .210 

Beef 

Beef Broth 219 

Egg-nog .... 120 

Jelly 222 

Sandwiches . . .260 
Broiled Beef Steak . . 149 
Maltre jyHQtel Butter . 149 
Pan Broiled Beefsteak 

Cakes 149 

Roast Beef 152 

Scraped Beef .... 217 

Beef Preparations . .212 

Beef Essence . . . .215 

" Juice 214 

Juice (for Infants) 215 

Tea 216 

Tea Frozen . . . 216 
Tea with Hydro- 
chloric Acid .... 216 



t€ 
ft 



« 



Nfl 

I^ Peptonoids Soluble . 4^. 
Liquid Peptonoids . . 215 

Panopepton 218 

Raw Beef Sandwiches . 2i: 

Scraped Beef . . . . 211 

Beet Greens .... 

Beverages 

Acid Beverages 

Albuminous Beverages 

Miscellaneous Beverages 

Starchy Beverage . 

Birds (Note Poui.tby) 

Biscuit 

Baking Powder Biscuit 
Bran Biscuit 

" Muffins . . . 
Cornmeal Gems 
Gum Gluten Biscuit . 

Drop Biscuit 253 
Muffins . . 253 

Pop Overs 254 

254 
295 
301 
320 
174 
175 



« 
« 






llO 
US 
12T 
124 
152 

253 
253 
254 
254 
252 



White Gems 
Blanc Mange 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 
Boiled Frosting . 
Bouillon, Clam: . 

Clam Bouillon Bisque 

Bran Tea 137 

Bran Lemonade . . . .Ill 
Brandy and Milk . . . 197 

Bread 247 

Baking Powder Biscuit . 253 
Boston Brown Bread . . 252 
Bran Bread .... 252 
Biscuit .... 253 
Muffins .... 254 
Cornmeal Gems . . 254 

Entire Wheat Bread . . 251 
Gum Gluten Biscuit . . 252 
Bread . 252 

Drop Biscuit 253 
Muffins . . 253 

Pop Overs 254 

White Flour Bread . . 250 
White Gems .... 254 
Whole Wheat or Graham 

Bread 251 

Bread Crumbs Buttebed . 246 
Bread Panada .... 127 



(S 



it 
ft 
it 






« 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Bbead Puddiko 

Cheese Bread Pudding 

Chocolnte " " 

Gluten Brown Betty . 

Jelly Bread Pudding . 

Lemon " 

Orange " 

Plain " 
Bbead Sauce fob Gaub 
BsEAKKAST Foods 

Boiled Rice . 

Commeal Mush 

Gum Glutea Breakfast 
Food ... 

Hast^ Pudding 

Homln; . 

Oatmeal Mush . 

Steamed Rice . 
Bboths 

Beef Broth . . 

Brutli with Graini 

Chicken Broth . 

Clam Broth No. I 
" Broth No. n 

Egg Broth (Milk) 

Broth (Hot Water) 
" Broth (Beef Broth) 

Mutton Broth . . . ■ 

Veal Broth 

BuTTEE Balls .... 

BUTTEB CBKAM .... 
BCTTKRUILK (ABTIFICIAI.) . 
BUTTEEED CBttMSa . 



C. 

Boiled Frosting 
Cold Water Sponge Cake . 
Ginger Bread . . . . 
Gum Gluten Nut Cake . 
Hot Water Sponge Cake . 
Marguerite Wafers 

Plain Cake 

Sponge Cake . . . . 

Carbots 

Boiled 

Creamed 



Caodlb 

Catoitiowkb .... 

Boiled 

Creamed .... 
CixEBr 

Boiled 

Creamed 

" (Diabetic) . . 

Toast 

Cebeals 

Breakfast Food . 

Starchy Grueis 
Ceakloite, Orange . 

Cheese Bread Pudding 

" Wafers . 
Gluten Biscuit Crisps . 
Gluten Cheese Wafers . 
Sandwiches . 
Chicken 

Broiled Chicken 
Chicken Broth . 

" Broth Jelly . 
" Salad . . 
Creamed Chicken . 
Jellied 

Roast " 

Gravy .... 
Stuffing . . . 
Trussing 
Scalloped Chicken . 
To clean Chicken . 
Chocolate ( Waltee Bak- 

EB'8) 4 

Chocolate Blanc Mange . 3 
" Bread Pudding 3 

" Custard . , 2 



Chocolate Syrup 

Vienna Style 
Plain Choeolate 

" Chocolate (Ind.) 

Chop Broiled in Paper 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



French Chops . . 

Lumb Chops Broiled 
ilottoa Chops " 
Pan Broiled Chops 

CiNMAMON WATEB . 

Milk . . 

Clams 172 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Clam Bouillon . . . , 1T4 

" Bouillon Bisque . 175 

" Broth . . 

" Broth No. II 

" Broth on Toast 

" Frapp* 

" Sherbet 

" Stew . 
" Water 

" Water No. II . 
Little Neck Clams 
Steamed Clams 
Cocoa (Walter Baker's 
Breakfast Cocoa . 

" Cocoa (Ind) 

Cocoa Junket ■ 
Malted Milk Cocoa 
CoDt-isn 

Creamed Codfish . 
" Codfish 

betic) .... 

COFVEE 

Boiled Coffee . . 

" Coffee (Ind.J 

Cereal Coffee . . 

Coffee Egg-nog . 

" Ice Cream . 

" Jelly . . . 

" JuiJtet . 

Filtered Coffe« . . 

" Coffee No. II 
Malted Milk Coffee 
Perculator Coffee . 
Peptonoida ColTee Jelly 
CoNDEnSED Milk (Eaqlb 

Bsand) 

coksomue 

cobit souf 

CoiUTia:AL Gems .... 



rut 
CoERSTAKCH PuDDnra . . iSi 

Cornstarch Fruit Jelly . 29i 
" Pudding . . 29i 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 29t 

Pineapple Cream . 9m 

Cbackbbs 

Bran Crackers 

Cheese Wafers 

Cracker Crumbs <but- 

Cracker Gruel . 
Cracker Panada 

" Pudding 
Crisped Crackers . 
Gluten -Cheese Wafers 
" Crackers 
" Biscuit Crisps 
Wafers . . 
Mfllguerite Wafers 
Toasted Crackers 
CEiXBEHBY Jelly 
Cranberry Sauce 
CaEAM Sauce 

Cream Sauce (Fish) , . Ifl5 
" (Macaroni) . 245 
" (Noodles) . 246 
" (Scalloped 

Dishes) 271 

Cream Sauce (Toast) . 257 

" (Vegetables) 271 

Cream of Tartar Driite , 114 

Creau (Whipped) . 

Crombs Butterib) . 
Crust CorrEE 

CUCUMBEIl IlELian . 

CuiiB,\NT Water . . 

CUSTASDS 

Baked Ciigtards . 
Custard Junket . 
Custard SouflSe 
Frozen Custard 
Soft Custards . 



W INDEX TO RECIPES 


ll 


■ 


MOB 






• 




Orange Bread Pudding 


302 ^^1 


Daisdeuon Greeks . . 


. 26B 


Plain " 


. 302 ^m 


Date Bonboss . 




. 2S2 


Cornstarch ob Blano ^^B 


" Tapioca 




. 301 


Manoe . . . 


. 295 ^^ 


Desserts (Frokbs) 




. 308 


Cornstarch Fruit Jelly . 295 ^^| 


Ice Cbeak . . 




. 306 


Cornstarch Pudding 


206 ^H 


Cammel Ice Cream . 


. 310 


Gum Gluten , . 


296 ^^M 


Ice Cream No. 


11 310 


Irish Mo9B Blanc Jlanjie . 297 ^H 


Chocolate Ice Cream . 


. 308 


" Jelly . 


297 ^H 


Coffee 


. 308 


Malted Milk Blanc Mange 298 ^H 


Frozen Custard . . 


. 311 


Nutritious Wheat Pudding 296 ^H 


Grape Ice Cream . . 


. 300 


Pineapple Cream . 


2Q5 ^H 


Hot Cocoa Sauce for Ice 


Cbaokeb Pcaoi>-Q . 


. 304 ^^ 


Cream .... 


. 311 


Walnut, Biscuit Crisps . 305 


Junket Ice Cream . . 


. 308 


Plain Cracker Pudding . 304 


Malted Milk Ice Cream 


. 310 


Custards 




Peach 


. 309 


Baked Custards . 


. 288 


Peptonoids " 


. 311 


Baked Caramel Custard . 290 


Raspberry ■' " 


. 309 


" or Cup 




Strawberry 


. 309 


" Custard No- II . 289 


Vanilla 


. 307 


Chocolate Custard 


. 281) 


Ices 


. 313 


Malted Milk " 
Peptonoids 


. 290 
. 290 


Clam Frapp* . 




. 315 


Fruit Ice . . 




. 314 


White 


. 289 


Orape Frappfi . 




. 315 


Soft Custakds . 


. 287 






. 314 


Almond Pudding . 


. 288 


Orange " . . 




. 313 


Apple Custard . . 


. 288 


" No. II 




. 314 


Banana " . . 


. 288 


" No. Ill 




. 314 


Floating Island 




Orange Strawa . 




. 315 


Meringue . . . 


'. 287 


Pineapple Ice . 




. 315 


Orange Custard 


. 288 


Scalpicon of Fruit 




. 315 


Peach Custard . . 


. 288 


Sherbet . . . 




. 312 


Soft Custard No. I 


. 287 


Clam Sherbet . 




. 312 


" Custard No. II 


. 287 


Grape Ambrosia 




, 313 


" Custard (Diabeti 


) . 287 


Grape Sherbet - 




. 313 


Junket .... 


. 293 


Lemon Milk Sherbet . 


. 312 


Cocoa Junket . . 


. 294 


" No 


II 312 


Coffee " . . 


. 294 


Malted Mitk 


. 313 


Custard " . . 


. 294 


Strawberry " 


. 312 


Plain " . . 


. 293 


Strawberry " No 


11 312 


Junket Ice Cream 


. 308 


Dessebts (Hot and Cold) 288 


PcDDiNo Sauces 


. 305 


Bread Podbinos . , 


. 302 


Foamy Sauce . . 


. 305 


Cheese Bread Pudding 


Fruit " . . 


. 308 


(Diabetic) . . . 


. 304 


nard " . . 


. 305 


Chocolate Bread Pudding 303 


Orange " . . 


. 210 


Gluten Brown Betty . 


. 304 


Whipped Cream . 


. 305 


Jelly Bread Pudding . 


. 303 


Whipped Cream No. 


II . 306 


Lemon " " 


. 303 


Rice Puddisqs . . 


. 297 



452 



INDEX TO RECIPES 





PAGS 


Boiled Rice .... 


. 297 


Cream of Rice Pudding 


. 299 


Peaches and Rice . . 


. 298 


Plain Rice Pudding . 


. 299 


Rice Meringue . 


. 299 


Southern Snow Balls . 


. 298 


Steamed Rice . 


. 298 


Tapioca Puddings . 


. 300 


Apple Tapioca . . 


. 300 


Chocolate Blanc Mange 


. 301 


Date Tapioca 


. 301 


Pineapple Tapioca . 


. 300 


Plain " . . 


. 300 


Raspberry ** 


. 301 


Tapioca Cream . 


, 300 


Whips and SoL't'n.F.s . 


. 291 


Custard Souffle 


. 292 


Fruit Whip 


. 291 


Grape Whip 


. 291 


Lemon Souffle . 


. 292 


Omelet Souffle . 


. 292 


Peach Meringue 


. 293 


Strawberry Whip . 


. 291 


Dressing fob Poultry . 


. 154 


" Salads . 


. 272 


Dried Fruit Soup 


. 227 


Dry Peptonoids Soluble 


. 492 


Peptonoids Sandwiches 


. 260 



E. 



Eggs 176 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 
. 122 
. 123 
. 123 
. 122 



it 



tt 






tt 



Milk 

Oranp^e 

Sherry 

Water 

Albumin Water (for In- 
fants) 122 

Baked Custard ... 288 

Baked Eggs 180 

" Eggs (Diabetic) . 180 
Baked Meat Omelet . .182 
Beef Effg-nog .... 120 
Coddled Eggs (Scrambled) 183 
Coffee Egg-nog .... 120 
Egg Broth (Milk) . .118 



Egg Broth (Water) . . 221 
•* Broth (Beef) . . 225 
" Lemonade . . . . 121 

** Nests 181 

** -nog No. I . . . . 119 
" -nog No. II . . . 119 
" Sandwiches . . . 183 

" Sauce 165 

" Sauce No. II . . .166 
" and Brandy ... 120 
" " Rum . . . . 120 
" « Wine . . . . 120 
" « Sherry Gruel . 241 

Filled Eggs 184 

Golden Rod Egg^ ... 181 
Grape Juice and Egg . . 122 

Grape Yolk 121 

Hard Cooked Egg ... 180 
Junket Egg-nog ... 119 
Malted Milk and Egg . .121 
Marguerite Salad . . . 275 
Mulled Wine .... 122 
Omelet (Bread) . . .182 
" (Foamy) ... 181 
" (Meat) ... 182 
Pineapple Egg-nog . . 122 
Poached or Dropped Egg . 182 
Egg in Milk . . 182 
Shirred Egg . . . .183 
« Egffs No. II . .183 
Soft Cooked Egg . . .179 

" No. II .180 
" Custard .... 287 
Steamed Eggs . . . .180 
Stokes' Mixture . . .121 
Water Lily Salad . . . 276 
Whips and Souffles . . 291 



F. 

Fabina Gbuel .... 239 

Fish 150 

Baked Fish 162 

Baked Fish (Diabetic) . 164 
Broiled Fish .... 162 
Creamed Cod Fish . . 163 
" Cod Fish (Dia- 
betic) 164 



mDEX TO RECIPES 



Creamed Fish .... 
" Fish [Diabetic) 

Fish (Diabetic) 

Halibut a la Creole 

Bcalloped Fish . 
Fish Sauces . 

Butter Cream . . 

Cream or White Sauce 

Cream Sauce (Diabetic) 

Cucumber Relis)i . 

Egg Sauee .... 
" Sauce No. II 

HollandaiBe Sauce . 

Tomato Sauce . 
FiAxeETO Tea . - . 

FLASSEliD AND LiCOKlCE TeA. 

Floatinq Island . 

Fuit'B Gbuel OB Thickened 

Flouk Baix . 
Fbapp£ 

Clam Frapp6 . 

Fbobtino . . . 
Fbozek Custabd . 
Fbuzen Desserts (See Des- 



r Jelly 



Fbuits 

Apples — Cuban Styli 
" Baked 

" Stewed . 

*' and Prunes 

Apricot and Prune Sauce 
Baked Banana . 
Cranberry Sauce 
Date Bonbons . 
Figs, Stewed 
Lemon Baked . 
Orange Baked . 
No. II . 
" Straws . 
" Sunflower 
Pineapple 
Prunes Stewed . 
Hhubarb Steamed 
FBurr Ice . 
Fboit Punch 
Fbuit Puddino Sauce 
Fbuit Saiad . . . 



Fbuit Sandwiches . . . 25& 

Fruit Soup 22T 

Fbuit Whip 291 

Fbuitade 112 

O. 

Gaub (Note Poultbt) . , 152 

Geiatitj 203 

Bararian Cream . . 210 

Coffee Jelly 207 

Cream " 207 

Grape Fluff 211 

Grape Jelly 206 

JellO 212 

Lemon Jelly .... 206 

Made in a Minute Dessert 212 

Orange Baskets ... 206 

" Charlotte . . .211 

" Jelly .... 205 

" Jelly No. II . .20ft 

Panopepton Jelly . . . 20S 

Panopepton Jelly with 

Orange 209 

Peach Jelly 207 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 
Wine Jelly . 20S 
Feptoniaed Milk Jelly . 208 
Snow Pudding .... 209 
(Ind.) . 209 
Spanish Cream 

" (Ind.) . 
Strawberry Mouaae 
Wine Jelly . . . 
" No. 11 . 
Sauces; Sebved with Gel- 

Orange 2 

Soft Custard .... 2 

Whipped Cream ... 3 

Gems 

Cornmeal Qems . . ,2 

White Gems .... 2 

GiNQCB Bbead .... 3 

GiNQEB Tea I 

Grape Juice (Welch's) . 4 
Albuminized Grape Juice 1 
Grape Ambrosia ... 3 



454 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



it 
« 
« 
<« 



«( 



(( 
«( 
«< 

« 



(< 



PAGS 

Grape Frapp4 .... 316 
Fluff .... 211 
Jelly .... 206 
Ice Cream . . . 309 
Juice, plain . .116 
Juice and Egg . . 122 
Lemonade . . .121 
Lithia . . .116 

Nectar . . . .116 
Sherbet .... 313 
Water .... 115 
Whip . . . .291 
Yolk .... 121 
Gravy for Roasts . . 152 

'* " Roast Poultry 155 
Grouse, Larded . . . .158 

Gruels 238 

Arrowroot Gruel . . . 238 

Barley Gruel .... 238 

" " with Broth . 238 

" " of Jelly . . 238 

Browned Flour Gruel . . 242 

Caudle 241 

Cracker Gruel .... 239 
Egg and Sherry Gruel . 241 
Farina Gruel .... 239 
Flour Gruel .... 239 

Flour Ball 242 

Gum Gluten Gruel . . 240 
Indian Meal Gruel . . 240 
Oatmeal Gruel No. I . . 240 
« " No. II . 241 

" " No. Ill . 241 

Rice or Oat Gruel ... 238 

Rice Jelly 244 

Tapioca Jelly .... 244 
Gum Gluten — How Pro- 
cured .... 488-497 

Baked Egg 180 

Biscuit 252 

" Crisps .... 261 

(a) Drop 253 

(b) Plain 252 

Bread 252 

Breakfast Food ... 242 
Cheese Biscuit Crisps . . 229 

Crisps 256 

Cakes (Gluten Nut) . .319 
Fish 164 



Fish, Baked 

Creamed 

Creamed Codfish 
Gruel or Porridge 
Muffins . 
Noodles . 

Boiled Noodles 

Noodles Au Gratin 
" for Soup 

White Sauce . 
Puddings 

Brown Betty . 

Cheese . 

Walnuts, Gluten 
Crisps . 

Plain . . . 



Sauces 

Cream . 

White . . . 
Soups 

Asparagus . 

Cream of Celery 

" " Tomato 

Oyster . 
Toast 

French . 
Wafers 

Cheese . 

Plain . . . 



Biscuit 



164 
164 
164 
240 
253 
246 
246 
246 
246 
246 

304 
304 

305 
304 

246 
246 

224 
225 
227 
172 

258 

261 
261 



H. 

Halibut \ la Creole . .163 

Ham Broiled 152 

Hard Sauce 305 

Hasty Pudding .... 242 

Herb Tea 137 

Holland AiSE Sauce . . .166 
Hominy Mush .... 243 
Hot Cocoa Sauce .311 

Hot and Cold Desserts . 286 



/. 



Ice Cream 307 

Caramel Ice Cream . .310 

" No. II 310 
Chocolate Ice Cream . . 308 
Coffee Ice Cream . . . 308 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



456 



Frozen Custard 

Grape Ice Cream . 

Hot Cocoa Sauce for 
Cream 

Junket Ice Cream . 

Malted Milk Ice Cream 

Peach Ice Cream . 

Peptonoids Ice Cream 

Raspberry Ice Cream 
• Strawberry Ice Cream 

Vanilla Ice Cream . 
Ices . . . 

Clam Frapp6 

Fruit Ice 

Grape Frappfi 

Lemon Ice . 

Orange Ice . 

« No. II . 
" No. Ill 
Straws . 

Pineapple Ice . 

Scalpicon of Fruits 
Indian Meal Gbuel . 
Irish Moss 

Blanc Mange . 

Jelly 

Lemonade . 



« 

€€ 



Ice 



J. 



FAGB 

311 
309 

311 
308 
310 
309 
311 
309 
309 
307 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 

srs 

240 

297 
297 
112 



Jellies 

Gelatin Jellies .... 203 
Jelly and Ice . . . .114 
Meat Jellies .... 221 
Storchy Jellies .... 244 

jELL-0 483 

Jell-0 with Fruit ... 212 
Made in a Minute Dessert 212 

Jellt Bread Puddinq . . 303 

Junket Tablets (Han- 
son's) 480 

Junket 

Cocoa Junket .... 294 
Coflfee " .... 294 
Custard " .... 294 
Junket Egg-nog . . .119 
Junket Ice Cream . . . 308 
Plain junket .... 199 
Wh^ 198 



it 
tt 

a 



« 



« 



Lemon 



« 
« 



« 



PAGI 



198 
198 



KUMTSS 

Dr. Brush's Kumyss, 
Home-made Kumyss 

L. 



Lamb 

Chops Broiled in Paper 
French Chops . 
Lamb ** Broiled . 
Pan Broiled Chops 
Lemon Souffle . 
Lemonade 
Apollinaris Lemonade . 
Bran Lemonade 
Efifervescent Lemonade 
Egg 
Fruit 
Grape 
Irish Moss 
Pineapple 
Soda 

Baked 
Bread Pudding 
Ice . 
Jelly 

Milk Sherbet 

Whey . . 

Liquid Peptonoids . 

Dry Peptonoids Soluble 

Dry Peptonoids with Broth 218 

" " Sandwiches 260 

Liquid Peptonoids Cold . 215 

Hot . 215 
with Whey 198 



151 
150 
150 
150 
292 

111 
HI 
111 
121 
111 
112 
112 
111 
111 
280 
303 
314 
206 
312 
198 
492 
492 



t( 



(t 
it 



Peptonoids Coflfee Jelly . 207 

Custard . . 290 

Ice Cream . 311 

Wine Jelly . 205 

Ijettuce Sandwiches . 259 

Lime Water 137 






<( 



M. 



Maoaboni . . . 
Baked Macaroni 



. 245 
. 245 



456 



INDEX TO BECIPES 



Boiled Macaroni . 

Boiled Noodles . . 

Noodles (DiabeUe) 

** Au Gratin 



PACK 

245 
246 
246 
246 



Sauces and Accessories . 245 

Buttered Cracker Crumbs 246 

Cream or White Sauce . 245 

** Sauce (Diabetic) 246 

Tomato Sauce .... 245 

Made in a Mhojte Dessebt 212 

MAitBE lyHoTEL Butter . 149 

Malted Milk (Horlick's) 487 

Malted Milk .... 194 

Blanc Mange 296 



u 



« 



<« 

M 
*€ 
M 



«< 
«« 



« 



«< 



« 



« 



« 



(( 



« 



Cocoa 
Coffee 
Custard . 
Ice Cream . 
Plain 
Sherbet . 
and Currant 



Jelly 
Malted Milk and Egg 



134 
133 
290 
310 
194 
313 

114 
121 



4( 



« 



" with Tamarind 116 

" with Wine . 114 

. 199 

. 140 

. 151 

. 151 

. 152 

. 149 



Matzoon 
31eat 

Broiled Bacon 

Curled 

Broiled Ham 

Broiled Steak 

Chops or Birds Broiled in 
Paper .... 

Lamb Chops Broiled 

French Chops . . 

Mutton Chops Broiled 

Pan Broiled Beef Cakes 

Pan Broiled Chops 

Boast Meats 
Gravy . . . 

Scraped Beef . 
Meat Jellies 

Beef Jelly . . 

Calf s Foot Jelly 

Chicken Jelly . 

Panopepton Jelly 



« 



it 



with 



Orange 



151 

150 

150 

150 

149 

150 

152 

152 

217 

221 

222 

221 

222 

208 

209 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 209 

•* Wine Jelly . 205 

Meat Soups (See Broths) 217 

MEBmouE 2^7 

Rice Merin^^e . . . . 299 

Milk IW 

Albuminized Milk . . 122 
Baked Milk . . . . 194 
Brandy and Milk . . . W 
Buttermilk (Artificial) . 199 
Cinnamon and Milk . . 197 
Condensed Milk (Eagle 

Brand) 479 

Evaporated Milk . . . 194 

Junket 199 

Kumyss 198 

Milk Toast 257 

Malted Milk .... 194 

Matzoon or Zoolak . . 199 

Modified Milk .... 192 

Pasteurization .... 193 

Peptonised Milk . . . 195 

Effervescent . . .196 

By the Cold Process . 195 

" " Warm Process . 195 

Immediate Process . . 196 

Partially Peptonised . 195 

Specially " .196 

Rice MUk 197 

Rum and Milk . . . .197 

Sherbets 312 

Sherry and Milk ... 197 
Sterilization . . .194 

Thickened Milk . . . 239 

Whey 198 

Acid Phosphate . . .113 

Lemon 113 

Liquid Peptonoids with 

Whey 198 

Panopepton with Whey 198 

Wine Whey .... 113 

MmuTB Tapioca .... 484 

Miscellaneous Beverages 127 

Cereal Coffee . . . .133 

Cocoa (Ind.) .... 134 

Breakfast Cocoa . . .133 

Malted Milk Cocoa . . 134 



INDES: TO RECIPES 



Coffee 

Boiled Coffee . . . 

" (Ind.) . 

Filtered " ... 

■' No. ir . 

Malted Milk Coffee . 
Pereulator Coffee 
Chocolate .... 
Milk Shake . 
Syrup - . . 
Vienna Style 
" Plnitl . . . 
•' (Ind) . 
Special Non-Nutritive Bt 
erages .... 
Bran Tea ... . 
Cinnamon Water . 
FlttXBeed Tea . . . 
Ginger Tea. . . . 
Herb Tea .... 
Lime Water 
Slippery Elm Tea 
Tea 



Slippery Elm 
Nutritious De 
NuTRinoua Wheat 



Russian Tea .... I 
Mock Bisque Soup ... 2 

M0U8s£, STBAWBEBR7 . . 2 

Muffins 

Bran MufTms .... 2 

Gum Gluten Muflins . . 2 

Mulled Wink .... 1 
Mush (See BaEAKrAST 

Food) 2 

Mutton Broth .... 2 

Mutton Chops Broiled . 1 

W. 

Noodles ( Diabetic ) 
Au Gratin 
" Boiled . . 

KoN-NcTBiTioua Bevei 

Bran Tea . . . 

Cinnamon Water . 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 

Flaxseed Tea . . 

Ginger Tea . 

Herb Tea . . . 

Lime Water 



Oatmeal Gruel , 



Olive Oil (Nicelle) 
Salads .... 
I Dresainga 



Boiled . . . 

Sreanicd 

Scalloped 

Omelet 

Baked Meat Om< 
Bread Omelet . 
Foamy Omelet . 
Meat Omelet 
Omelet Souffle . 

Ob A NOES 

Albuminized Orange . 

Baked Orange . 

Orange Baskets 

" Bread Pudding 
" Charlotte 
Cufltard 






No. II 

" No. HI 

" Jelly No. I 

" " No. II 

" Plain . . 

" Straws . 
" Sunflower . 
Orangeade . 



458 



INDEX TO EECIPE8 



Oysters . . 
Broiled . 
Creamed 
Creamed No. II 
Pan Roasted 
Raw . 

Roasted in the 
Scalloped 
Soup 

Soup (Diabetic) 
Stew . . . 
To Wash Oysters 




PAGB 

166 
170 
170 
170 
170 
169 
169 
171 
171 
172 
172 
169 



(( 



(( 



(( 



P. 



Panada (Crackeb) . . 126 

(Bread) ... 127 

Pan Broiled Beef Cakes 149 

Ice Panopepton . . .216 

Panopepton Bouillon Hot 228 

Hot . . . 216 

Jelly ... 208 

Jelly with 

Orange 209 

Panopepton with Whey . 198 

Pasteurization .... 193 

Pasteurizer (Hygeia) . 194 

Parsley Butter .... 267 

Peas Green 269 

" Canned 270 

270 
270 
309 
207 
293 
298 
195 
196 
195 
195 
196 
195 
196 
492 
492 



(( 



« 






Creamed No. 1 
" No. II 

Peach Ice Cream 
" Jelly . . 
Meringue 
and Rice . 
Peptonised Milk 
Effervescent 
By the Cold Process . 
" " Warm Process 
Immediate Process 
Partially Peptonised . 
Specially " 

Peptonoids (Liquid) 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble 



»( 



« 



€€ 



s 



) 



«( 



« 



« 






ftet 
T>Ty Peptonoids with Broth 218 

Sandwiches 260 
Liquid " Cold . . 215 

" Hot . . 215 

with Whey 198 
. 207 
. 290 
. 311 
. 205 
, 478 
. 113 
. 113 
495 
. 295 
120 
315 
113 
111 
300 
254 
265 
266 
265 
267 
265 
267 
267 
266 
266 
265 
266 
152 
151 
158 
156 
156 
156 
156 
157 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
Custard . 
" Ice Cream 

Wine Jelly 
Phosphate (Hobsfobd' 
Acid Phosphate 

Whey 
Pineapple (Hawaiian) 
Pineapple Cream . 
Egg-nog 
Ice . 
Juice 
Lemonade 
Tapioca 
Pop-Overs . 
Potatoes . 
Baked . . 
Boiled . . 
Creamed 
Mashed . 

Potatoes Au Gratin 
Potato Balls 
Cakes 

in Half Shell 
Riced Potatoes 
Surprise Balls 
Poultry 

Birds Broiled in Paper 
Breaded Sauce for Game 
Broiled Chicken 

Quail . / . 
Small Bird 
Squabs 
Creamed Chicken 
Dry Dressing for Stuffing 154 
General Rule for Cleaning 

Poultry 1.53 

Gravy for I^oast Poultry . 155 
Jellied Chicken . . .157 
Larded Grouse . . . .158 

... 158 
. . . 154 
... 154 
... 155 



« 



(( 



« 



« 



LS 



« 



Quail 
Boast Poultry 
Dry Dressing 
Gravy . 



INDEX TO BECIPES 



To Bon« Birds . 
To Clean Poultry , 
To Truss *' 
Bca Hoped Chicken . 

Pbunes Stewed . 

FuDDiNO Sauceb . 
Toamj Sauce . 
Fruit '■' 

Hard " 
Orange " 
Whipped Cream 
" " No. 



Tutu Frutti Punch 



Ql7AIL 

Broiled 

Broiled in Paper . 
Breaded Sauce for Qame . 
Laided Quail . . . . 



Baspbebrt Ice Cream . . 

" Tapioca . 

Rhubarb Steamed . . . 
" Water . . . . 
Rice ^ 

Boiled Kic6 

Cream of Rice Pudding . 
Peaches and Rice . 
Plain Rice Pudding . . 

Rice Gruel 

" Jelly 

" Meringue . . 

" Milk 

" Water . . . . 

" No. II . . . 

Southern Snow Balla . 

Steamed Rice . . . . 

KoABTB OF Meats . . . 



. ISS BtiH ADD Milk . „ 



Chicken Salad . . 


. 27a 
. 274 


Filled Eggs . . 
Fruit Salad . . 


. 1S4 
. 376 


Marguerite Salad . 


. 275 


Mixed 


. 275 


Sweetbread " . 


. 2T5 


Tomato " . 


. 276 


Waldorf 


. 275 


Water Lily " 


. 276 


Salab Accompaniments 


. 276 


Checae Gluten Biacuit 


Crisps . . 


. 276 


Cheese Wafers . . 


. 276 


Salad Dkess^nos . 


. 272 


Boiled Dressing . 


. 273 


Cream Dressing . 


. 274 


French " . 


. 273 


Mayonnaise . . . 


. 273 


Sabdine Sandwiches 


. 260 


Sauces fob 




Ice Cream (Hot Cocoa) . 311 


Macaroni and Noodles 245-246 


Ideat .... 


. 149 


Scalloped Dishes . 


. 271 


Fish 


. 165 


Pudding .... 


. 305 


Vegetable . . . 


. 271 


Sandwiches . . . 


. 268 


Boston Brown Bread 


. . 259 


Bread and Butter . 


. 259 


Cheese Sandwiches 


. 250 


Chicken 


. 259 


Egg 


. 183 


FFuit 


. 259 


Lettuoe 


. 259 


Nut 


. 259 


Peptonoids " 


. 260 


Raw Beef " 


. 217 


Sardine 


. 260 


ScALpicoN OF Frotts 


. 315 


ScBAPED Beef . . 


. 217 


Shell-Fibh . . . 


. 166 


Oystera .... 


. 166 


BroUed . . . 


. 170 



460 



INDEX TO BECIPBS 



Creamed . . 


. . . 170 


Creamed No. II 


" • • ^ V ^^ 

... 170 


Pan Roasted . 


... 170 


Raw 


. . . 169 


Roasted in the 


SheU . 169 


Scalloped 


. . . 171 


Soup . . 


• • • ^ # ^ 

... 171 


Soup (Diabetic) 


... 172 


Stew . . . 


. . . 172 


To Wash Oyster 


• m • ^ # mm 

s . . 169 


Clahs . . 


... 172 


Albuminized Clan 


I W ater 123 


Clam Bouillon . 


. . . 174 


" Bouillon Bi 


sque . 175 


" Broth 


. . . 173 


« Broth No. 


II . . 220 


*' Broth on T 


oa$t . 25S 


" Frapp6 . 


. . . 315 


« Sherbet . 


. . . 312 


" Soup . . 


. . . 174 


" Stew . . 


. . . 174 


" Water 


. . . 173 


" No. U 


[ . . 173 


Little Neck Clama 


. . 172 


Steamed Clams 


. . . 172 


BilERBET 




Clam Sherbet . 


. . . 312 


(jrapo Ambrosia 


. . . 313 


Orapo Sherbet . 


. . . 313 


Lnmon Milk Sherb 


et . . 312 


II II 11 


No. II 312 


Multf'd Milk Sherb 


et . . 313 


Htrowberry Sherbel 


b . .312 


tt K 


No. II 312 


HllKHHY (AlBUMINIZI 


CD) . 123 


HiiKiiiiY AND Milk 


. . 197 


Hiiii*i*KUY Klh Tea . 


. . 137 


Hll*l*KTM . . . . 


. . 256 


HimA Lkmonadb . . 


. . Ill 


Hurr ('(JNTAiii) . . 


. . 287 


Almond Pudding . 


. . 238 


Appld CuNtard . . 


. . 288 


lltttiHim CuNtard 


. . 288 


KloHtIng iNland 


. . 288 


Mt«rlngua . . 


. . 287 


Orangt OuNtard 
PfAoli Cuitard . . 


. . 288 


. . 288 


Hoft CuMtard No. 


I . .287 


" " No. 1 


I . . 287 



FJfl 



Soft Costard (IHabetic) . 281 
S0UFF1.BS OB Whips ... 291 
Soups .... 

Asparagus Soup 



223 
(Cream) 2^ 



S<Hip (Diab^c) 224 



Clam Bouillon 

** BoaiUon Bisque 

" Soup . . . 
Conaomm^ 
Cream ot Aspara^rug 

** ** Celery 

•* •* Celeif 

b^c) . . . 
Cream of Com 

" " Onion 



u 









(Dia- 



Soup 



lU 
115 
174 

228 
223 
224 

22s 
224 
225 
225 
226 
226 



227 
227 
217 
227 
226 
171 
172 
172 
228 



Potatoes 
Rice 

Tomato 

(Diabetic) 
Dried Fruit Soup 
Meat Soup . 
Mock Bisque Soup 
Onion Soup (Diabetic) 
C)yster Soup 

" (Diabetic)' 
" Stew . . 

Panopepton Bouillon . . ^^^ 
Tomato Soup with Broth 226 
Victoria Soup .... 228 

Soup Accohfaniicents . ] 229 
Crisped Crackers . . .' 229 
CroQtons .... J 230 
Gum Gluten Crisps .' ' 256 
" " Biscuit Crisps 229 

** ** Noodles . . 230 

Toasted Oackers . . 229 

Sponge Cake . . . 318-319 

Special Now-Nutbitive Bev- 
erages . . . ^ . 130 

Bran Tea 137 

Cinnamon Water . .136 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 

Tea .... 136 
Ginger Tea 137 

Herb Tea . . . . . 137 

Lime Water . . . . 137 

Slippery Elm Tea . . . 137 



^P INDEX TO BECIPES 


■?! 


i| SniTACH 


. 209 


Date Tapioca . . . 


•s ■ 


1^ S<jUABs, Bboiled . . . 


. 156 


Pineapple Tapioca . . 


300 


String Beans . . . 


. 270 


Plain Tapioca . . . 


300 


c Starchy Be:vehaoe3 . . 


. 124 


Raspberry Tapioca 


301 


Bftrley Water . . . 


. 124 


Tapioca Oream'^. . . 


300 


" for Infanta 


. 125 


Tapioca Jelly . . . 


244 


Bread Panada . . . 


. 127 


Tea 




Cracker Panada . . 


. 120 


Bran Tea ... . 


137 


Crust Coffee . . . 


. 128 


Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 


Oatmeal Water . . 


. 125 


Tea . . . 


136 


" No. II . 


. 126 


Ginger Tea .... 


137 


Hice Water .... 


. 126 


Herb Tea ... . 


137 


" No. U . . 


. 125 


Russian Tea . . . 


131 


Toast Water . . . 


. 126 


Slippery Elm Tea . . 


137 


Starchy Jeujes . . 


. 244 


Tea 


131 


Barley Jelly . . . 


. 244 


Tea Punch .... 


lis 


Cornatareh Jellies . . 


. 205 


Toast 


256 


Rice Jelly .... 


244 


Celery Toast . . . 


257 


Tapioca Jelly . . . 


244 


Clam Broth Toast . . 


25a 


Steak (See Bbep) . . 


. 149 


Cream Toaat . . . 


25T 


Stebiuzamon of Milk 


104 


" No. ir . 


257 


Stebiuzbb (Hyqeia) 


104 


Crisps (Gum Gluten) 


266 


Steaubd Clams . . . 


172 


Crodtons .... 


230 


Stew, Oyster . . . 


172 


French Toast (Diabetic) 


258 


Stokes' Miktuke . , 


121 


Gum Gluten Crispa . 


253 


Straivbkbby Ice Cream 


309 


" Biaeuit Crisp 261 


Mousse 


212 


Milk Toast .... 


257 


Whip . . 


201 


Sippets 


25a 


Stjoab Stbup .... 


110 


Toast Crackers . . 


256 


Sweet Breads . . . 


200 


" Sticks . . . 


250 


Broiled 


201 


" Water . . . 


126 


Creamed .... 


201 


Water Toast . . . 


256 


No. n . . 


202 


Tomato Sauce for Fish 


163 


Fricasseed .... 


202 


(For Maca 




Parboiled Sweet Bread 


201 


roni and Noodles) . 


24S 


Salad 


275 


Tomatoes 




Sweet Breada with Peaa 


202 


Baked 


270 


SWEETINA 


488 


Mock Bisque Soup 


227 


Stpup (Sugar) . . . 


110 


Scalloped ... 


271 






Stewed 


270 






Salad 


275 






Soup with Broth . . 


220 


T. 




Turkey (See Poultry) 


162 






Tutti Frutti Punch 


117 


TAUAKinn Wateb . . 


116 






Malted Milk 


lie 






Tapioca (Minute) . . 


484 


F. 




Apple Tapioca . . . 
Chocolate Blanc Mangs 


300 






301 


Vamilla Ice Cbbam . . 

i 


307 



Veai. Broth . 
VtawtkBLta 
AsparaguB o 

Boiled . . 

Creamed 
Beet Ureena 
Carrots . 

Boiled . . 

Creamed 
Cauliflower , 

Boiled . . 

Cieamed 
Celery . . 

Boiled . . 

Creamed 
JHndelion Greens 
Onions . 

Boiled . . 

Creamed 

Scalloped . 
Peas, Green 

" Canned 

" Creamed No. 

No. 

Potatoes 



Boiled . 

Creamed 

Mashed 

Potato Au Gratia 

Balls 

Cakes 

Half Shell 

Riced Potatoes 

Surprise Balls 

Spinach . 

String Beans 

Tomatoes 

Baked . . 

Scalloped . 

Stewed . 

Vegetable Saucbb 

Cream or White Sai 

" Sauce No. II 

FaxBley Butter . . 



) RECIPES 
Victoria Scup , 



Waters 
Cheese Wafers . . . 
Gluten Cbeese Wafers 
Marguerite Wafers 

Water ( Ai-buminizep } 

Whet 



PanopeptoQ with 

Wine Whej- 
Whipped Ckeam , 
Wnips ANn SotTFJ 

Custard Souffle . 

Fruit "Whip . 

Grape Whip 

Lemon SnuSle . 

Omelet Souffle . 

Peach Meringue 

Strawberry Whip 
White Sauce fob 

Fish .... 

Macaroni 
■ .Noodles . 

Scalloped Bishes 

Vegetables . . 
Wine Jells No. I 
" No. II 
(Mulled) . , 

" Whey . . , 



367 ZOOLAS. 



r 


A -■ 


1 


h 
4 


DIET FOR INFANTS 
AND INVALIDS 

A l^HE proficient and careful nurse is well aware of 
1 the great importance of proper diet and will 
recognize the advantage of a method by which 
any desired proportion of protein, fats and carbohy- 
drates for an infant or invalid can be readily obtained. 
By the use of MellinU Food, such a method is always 
at hand. 

For Infants. When Mellin's Food is added to cow's 
milk it supplies the carbohydrates and other elements 
necessary to make up the deficiency of these constitu- 
ents in cow's milk, and the resulting mixture shows — 
both chemically and physiologically — the closest re- 
semblance to mother's milk, thereby furnishing a 
complete and satisfying diet for an infant of any age. 
Mellin's Food also softens the curd of the milk, making 
it light and digestible, like mother's milk, thus enabling 
the infant to assimilate sufficient nourishment to insure 
proper growth and development. 

For Invalids ana Convalescents. Mellin's Food, 
being perfectly digestible, possessing nourishing quali- 
ties of the highest order, and requiring but little effort 
for assimilation, is especially valuable for those of weak- 
ened digestion, Alany invalids who have difficulty in 
digesting milk alone find that by the addition of Mellin's 
Food they can take as much milk as desired and digest 
it perfectly, thus proving the value of Mellin's Food as a. 
diet for invalids and convalescents. 

Write to-day for our books, "The Care and 
Feeding of Infants," and "MelHo's Food for 
the Adult." We will send them to you free, 
If you will mention "Practical Dietetics." 

MELLIN'S FOOD COMPANY, Boston, Mass. 


1 




463 


" 




THE PRACTICE OF 

SHAMPOOING! 



"OHAMPOOING iDcreases the biood supply and quic^eoE 
O tbe circulation of the scalp. It is. however, wbea the 
scalp Ib diseased and the Integritj ot the hair is tbreai- 
ened tbat sbampooiDg, and cspeciaJIr wet shampooins. 
is an energetic assistant to other methods of treatment 

"'Dry Seborrhea (dandniB) is a very comnjon affection 
of the scalp and a very freqaent cause of baldness. When 
the disease ruos a full course, it leads to oblii 
the bair follicles and irremediable baldness. 

"In order to checit falling of the bair and _, 

hair-forming apparatus to Lealth, treatment should be 
begun with the first manifestations of disease. 

"The practice of sbawpoolDg is of value Id restoring 
the sebaceous glands to normal activity and remoTlng 
disease products from the skin. 

"An excellent preparatloa tor shampooing the scalp is 
that known as Packer's Tar Soap, It contains pine-tai 
and glycerine, both ot which substances are ofteD of de- 
cided Ltillty in unhealthy conditions of the scalp. Gly- 
cerine has an excellent effect upon the akin, and pine- 
tar poBsesees antiseptic virtues. Tbese constituents ren- 
der the soap serviceable when applied in the form of a 
shampoo. By this practice we obtain the benefits of lo- 
cal massage, the detergent action of a soap, and, addi- 
tionally, the remedial influence of pine-tar and glycerine, 
in threatened loss of hair, shampooing with Packer's 
Tar Soap may be performed much more frequently than 
la needful in health. It will be of advantage to have the 
BCalp manipulated in this manner every day until de- 
cided eigne ot improvement are manifested. In that 
event the number of applications may be reduced to two 
and at least one in the courae of the week. If begun at 
an early stage, tbia procedure, in cod Junction with other 
local and probably general means, will ordinarily effect 
a cure."— John V. 8hoemakfr. M.D., LL.D., PhilaOel- 
phia. in The Medical Bulletin. 



The PACKER MFG. CO. 




GENERAL INDEX 



A. 



« 



ti 



Absorption 46 

of Carbohydrates 48 
of Fats ... 48 
of Mineral Matter 49 
of Protein . . 47 
of Water ... 49 
Absorption, Summary of . 49 
Acid, Hydrochloric . . 30, 37 
Acidosis, Dietetic Treatment 357 
Acid Phosphate . .113 

Acids, Tatty 20 

Acids, Vegetable .... 31 

Salts of 31 

Adolescent, Diet of . . . 442 
Aged, Diet for ... . 443 
Albumin, Cooking of . 11 

" Effects of Heat on 178 
Albuminoids . . . 8-10-140 

Albumins 9-10 

Albuminuria, Diet in . . 394 
Alcohol, in Pneumonia . . 349 
Use of in Sick Room 83 
Value of in Tuber- 
culosis 352 

Alcoholics as Beverages . . 35 

AlgfiB 284 

Amino Acids 39 

Amylopsin 45 

Anabolism 50 

Animal Food (See Protein, 

Meats, Eggs, Milk, Etc.). 
Antiseptics in Food Preser- 
vation 95 

Appendicitis, Diet in . . 389 
Appetite (See under Diges- 
tion). 

465 



PAGE SAGS 

Appetite of the Sick ... 75 
Appetizers (See under Bev- 
erages). 

Apples 278 

Asparagus 265 

Assimilation 50 



« 
it 



« 



(( 



t( 



B. 



Baby's Stomach, Capacity of 409 

Beans (See Legumes). 

Beating in Cookery ... 90 

Beef 144 

Cuts of 146 

Drippings .... 20 

Extracts 214 

212 
213 
213 
212 
213 
213 
212 
213 
214 
213 
213 



« 



t< 



« 



<( 



tt 



« 



tt 



tt 



tt 
it 



tt 



tt 



" Juice 

Absorption of . 
Care in Serving 
Composition of 
Beef Juice, Substitutes for 
" vs. Beef Tea . 
Preparations 
Principles of Cooking 

Raw 

Tea .... . 
Composition of 
Nutritive Value of 214 
vs. Beef Juice . . 213 

. 218 

. 144 

. 264 

35, 109 

Acid . . . .110 

" Sweetening of 110 

Albuminous . .118 

as Appetizers . 35 



t( 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



vs. Broth 
Tests for Good 



Beets 
Beverages 



tt 






466 



GENERAL INDEX 






« 
« 



« 



P4cni 
127 
35 
35 
35 



Beverages, Miscellaneous 
Nutritive . 
Sapid . 
Stimulating . 
Thirst Quenching 35 
Special Non-Nu- 
tritive 136 

Beverages, Starchy . .124 

Digestion of .124 

Principles of Cooking . .124 

Bile 38 

Biliousness, Diet in . . . 395 
Body, Composition of . . 4 
" Energy Requirements 

of 60 

Bottle Feeding . . . .410 
Bread, Composition of . . 247 
Digestibility of . . 247 
Energy Value of . 256 
Fermented . . . 249 
Gluten .... 248 
Making of . . . 249 
Nutritive Value of . 247 
Puddings .... 302 
Toasted .... 255 
Unfermented . .250 
Breakfast Foods . . 235, 242 
Breast Feeding .... 406 
Bright's Disease, Acute, Diet 
Bright's Disease, Chronic, 

Diet in 391 

Bromelin 278 

Broncho-Pneumonia, Diet in 350 

Broth 217 

Composition of . .217 
Energy Value of . . 218 
Principles of Cooking 217 
vs. Beef Tea ... 218 

Butter 189 

Butterine 20 

Buttermilk 190 



C. 



Cabbage 265 

Cake ....... 317 

'' General Directions for 
Making 317 



« 

« 
« 



<( 



« 






i- 



« 



« 



(( 






*« 



Caldum Phosphate . . 

Calories i\ 

Calorimeter d 

Cane Sugar Uj^ 

Description of . U'l 

Food, Uses of . \\\ 

Sources of . . ir^ 

Carbohydrates . . li: 

Absorption of %\ 

Classifications \ 

of . . . 13 

I>efinition of 12 ' 

Digestion of 40 " 

Function of 12 

of Animal Food 13S 

^ , . Source of . 12 

Carbonates 30 

Carrots 264 

Casein 9, 185 

Cauliflower .... 

Celery 

Cellulose .... 17, 235 

Centigrade Scale, Change to 

Fahrenheit . . . 106 



« 
« 






Cereal Breakfast Foods 

Cereals 

Care of . 
Composition of 
Digestibility of 



« 



(( 



(( 






. 235 
. 233 
. 237 
. 234 
. 236 
Nutritive Value of . 237 
Principles of Cook- 
ing 235 

Cheese 189 

Chicken, How to Select . . 153 
Children, Feeding Sick . . . 438 

Chlorides .29 

Chocolate 129 

" Compared with Tea 
and Coffee . . .130 
Chocolate, Nutritive Value of 130 
" Principles of Cook- 
ing of 130 

Chocolate, Source of . . .129 

Cinnamon 34 

Clams 168 

" Varieties of . . . 168 

Cloves ' . . 34 

Cocoa 129 

Codliver Oil 20 



GENERAL INDEX 



:joffee .... 

i|i " Effects of . 

" Sources of . 

Colic, Dietetic Treatment of, 
in Children . 
■Collagen . . . 
ClCondimentB 
K Classification of 

Constipation, Diet i 
I "in Nurslings, 

I Treatment of 

Consumption (Sea Tubercu- 



Cooking, Methods of 

" Objective Points in 
" Principles of . 
" Processes, Objcrts of 
" Processes, Principal 
" Success in . . . 
Suggestions in 
Method, ot Working in . 

Crackers 2 

Cream 185, 1 

Cutting in Cookery . 



Dessert, Frozen 

Desserts, Nutritious . 

Dextrin 

Dextrose 

" Description of . 
Food Uses of . 
" Sourees of . 

Diabetes, Diet in . 

" Chronic, Diet of 

Diabetic Chart (Joslin and 
Goodall) . . . 

Diabetic Diet of Bellevue 
Hospital . 

Diabetic Diet of Massachu- 
setts General Hospital 

Diabetic Diet of Presbyterian 
Hospital, N. Y. . 

Diarihiea, Diet in 



Diet, after Laparotomy, etc. 399 
" Animal, Disadvantages 

of ExcluBive . . .139 
Diet.Bellevue Hospital . . 328 

" Broth 32T 

" Convalescent . . . 323 
" Diabetic, of Bellevue 
Hospital .... 356 
Diet, Diabetic, of Massachu- 
setts Hospital . . .357 

Diet, Enteric 388 

" Extra, for Typhoid, in 
Presbyterian Hospital, 

N. Y 341 

Diet, Farinaceous 324-5 

" Fat Free .... 326 

" Fish 327 

■' High Caloric, in Ty- 
phoid 338 

Diet, Hospital, General Type 

of 323 

Diet, Hospital Extra . . 327 

Diet, Ideal 233 

" in Acute Bright's Dis- 
ease 390 

Diet in Acute Gastritis . 373 
" in Acute Gout . . 307 
" in A e u t e Nephritis, 

Mass. Gen'l Hosp. . 392 
Diet in Acute Kheumatism. 36S 
" in Adolescence . . . 442 
" in Appendicitis . . 389 
" in Albuminuria . , 394 
" in Biliousness . . .395 
" in Broncho- Pneumonia 350 
" in Chronic Diabetes . 358 
" in Chronic Gastritis . 373 
" in Chronic Gaut . . 368 
" in Constipation . . 382 
" in Convalescence from 

Fever 332 

in Convales^nce from 

Typhoid 339 

in Diarrh<Ea ... 385 
in Diphtheria . . .347 
in Disease . . . .331 
in Diseases of the Gen- 
ito Urinary System . 390 



Diet 
Diet 




468 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Diet in Disorders of Nutri- 
tion 355 

Diet in Dysentery . . 386-387 
" in Dyspepsia . . . 381 
" in Fevers .... 331 
" in Gastric Diseases . 373 
" in Heart Disease . . 396 
" in Infectious Diseases . 331 
" in Intestinal Diseases . 381 
" in Lithemia ... 367 
" in Lying-in Period . 403 
" in Mumps .... 350 
" in Nervous Disorders . 395 
" in Obesity .... 370 
" in Old Age .... 443 
" in Oxaluria .... 325 
" in Pneumonia . . . 348 
" in Pregnancy . . . 401 
" in Quinsy .... 346 
" in Skin Diseases . . 396 
" in Surgical Cases . . 397 
" in the Sedentary . . 443 
" in Tonsilitis ... 346 
" in Tuberculosis (espe- 
cially Pulmonary Con- 
sumption) . . . .351 
Diet in Typhoid, Late Con- 
valescent ( Presbyterian 
Hospital, N. Y.) . . 341 
Diet in Typhoid, Summary of 337 
" in Ulcer of the Stomach 376 
** in Vomiting of Preg- 
nancy 402 

" in Whooping Cough . 351 
Diet, Liberal, in Typhoid 

Fever .... 336, 341 

Diet, Light 323^ 

" Liquid Enteric ... 388 
« Liquid, in Typhoid 335, 337 
" Meat, Exclusive . . 51 

" Milk 324 

« Mixed 7 

« Nephritic .... 392 
" Nitrogenous .... 325 

" Nutrient 325 

" of Nursing Mother . 404 
" of Wet Nurse ... 404 
Diets, Presbyterian Hospital, 

N. Y 329 



Diet, Restricted .... 33 
" Salt-free . . . . 393 

•* Schmidt 321 

" Special Enteric ... 388 
" Starvation, in Typhoid 334 
" Vegetable vs. Animal . 233 
" Strictly Sugar-free . . 35T 
" Test 326 

Dietaries for Young Chil- 
dren 436 

Dietaries, Hospital . . . 323 

Digestion 36 

" Evidences of in 

Sick 74 

Digestion of Fat .... 40 

of Protein, Prod- 
ucts of .... 37, 39 
Digestion of Protein, Sum- 
mary of 39 

Digestion of Proteins . . 36 
" of Proteins in In- 
testines 38 

Digestion of Proteins in 

Stomach 35 

Digestion of Starch ... 40 

Products of .... 41 

Summary of . . . . 41 

Digestion of Sugars ... 42 

Products of 42 

Summary of .... 42 

Digestion, Salivary ... 41 

Rate of ... 45 

" Resume of . . 43 

Diphtheria, Diet in . . .347 

Disease, Acute, Feeding in . 73 

" Diet in . . . .331 

Disinfection of Utensils . . 84 

Drinks, Cold 109 

Drinks, Hot . . . . . 100 

Dysentery (Acute Colitis), 

Diet in . . . ...; . 387 

Dyspepsia; Diet in . ..', • 381 



E. 



Eggs 



(( 



<€ 



Composition of 
Cooking of . 



. 175 
. 175 
11-12 



GENERAL INDEX 



^gi, DIgMtlbility of . . ITO 

^ Energy Value of 118, 179 
" Nutritive Value of . . 177 
" Principles for Cooking 178 
" Suggestions Concerning 178 
" Test for Fresh . . ,178 
" Varieties ot . . . .176 

Enteric Diet 388 

Equivalents, Table of Metric 101 

Erepsin 30 

Excretion . , ... 53 

Extractives, Nitrogenous 11, 138 

144 

Extracts, Flavoring ... 34 

F. 



Fat . 



Absorption of 
" Animal .... 
" Cheap Forms of . 
" Definition of . . . 
" Description of 
" Digestibility of 
" Digestion of . . . 
" Function ot . . . 
" Percentages in Crean 
Table Showing . . 
Fat, Principles of Cooking 
" Sources of . . . 
" Tests for ... 
" Ts. Carbohydrate t 

Food 

Fat, Value of in Tuberculos: 
Feeding, Details ot . 
" Forced . 

" in Acute Disease 

Feeding, Infant 
" Artificial 

" Breast . 

" Hygiene ot Naturi 

Feeding, Nasal 
Feeding of Young Children 
" of Young Childrej 

General Rules for 
" Rectal . . . 
" the HelplesB Pi 
tient 



Feeding the Bick ... 72 
" the Sick, Physi- 
cians' Directions for 72 
Feeding the Sick, Position in 77 
" the Sick, Time for . 77 
" the Unconscious Pa- 
tient 78 

Feeding and Sleep ... 78 

Fever, Diet in .... 331 

" Typhoid (See Typhoid 

Fibrin lo 

FigH 27B 

Fish 159 

" Composition of . . . 180 

" Digestibility of . . 158 

" Energy Value of . . 181 

" Nutritive Value of . 180 

" Principles of Cooking 161 

" Salt ... 



1 for . 



. 185 
. 161 

Test for Freshness of 181 

Fletcher, Mr,, on Mastication 41 

Folding In, in Cookery . . 90 

Food Accessories . . 4, 33 

" Adjuncts . . . 4, 33 

" Adulteration of . . 07 

" Animal 138 

" Animal, Carbohydrates 

of 138 

Food, Animal, Composition ■ 

of 138 

Food, Animal, Digestibility 

of 139 

Food, Extractives of . . 138 
" Mineral Matter of . 139 
" Animal, Proteins . . 13S 
" Animal, Water ot . 130 
" Care of .... 92 
" Care of, in Markets 

and Kitchens ... 92 

Food, Classification of . 5, 8 

" Composition of . . 4 

" Concentration of . ,05 



Definitio 



ot 



Effects of Heat on 89 

Determination of Energy 

Value of .... 68 



470 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGB 

Food, Fly Pollution of . .94 
" How to Serve ... 86 
" Methods of Cooking . 88 
" Liquid (Fluid) . . 323 
" Nitrogenous ... 8 
Classification of . 8 
Source of . . . 9 
Food, Non-Nitrogenous . . 12 
" Object of ... . 3 
" Predigestion of . . 96 
" Preservation ... 95 
" Preservation by anti- 
septics 95 

Food Preservation by D r y- 

ing 95 

Food Preservation by Exclu- 
sion of Air ... 95 
Food Preservation by Freez- 
ing 95 

Food, Quantity and Quality 

of, for Sick ... 76 
Food, Soft (Semi-Solid) . 323 

" Solid 323 

" Source of ... . 4 
" Storage of .... 93 
" Temperature of, for 

Sick 76 

Food Values 54 

" Values, Tabulation of 64-71 
« Vegetable .... 231 
" Vegetable, Carbohy- 
drates of . . . .232 
Food, Vegetable Composition 

of 31 

Food, Vegetable. Digestibil- 
ity of 232 

Food, Vegetable, Fats of . 232 
" Vegetable, Mineral 

Matter of . . . • 232 

Food, Vegetable, Protein of . 232 

" Vegetable, Water of . 232 

" Washing of Uncooked 93 

Formulre for Infant Feeding 416 

Fowl, How to Select . .153 

Freezing, General JRules for 307 

" in Small Amounts 307 

Fruits 276 

« as Ballast ... 279 
** Composition of . .276 



Fruits, BigestibiUty of . . 2r 

I>ried 279 

" Flavoring Principle of 277 

" (Fresh) and Vegeto- 

bles. Agreement between 278 

Fruits, Fuel Value of . . 278 

Nutritive Value of . 278 

" Precautions in Use of 279 

" Sugar-content of . . 277 

Fungi 284 

G. 

Galactose 42 

Game (See Poultry). 

Gastric Juice 37 

Gastritis, Acute, Diet in . 373 
Chronic, Diet in . 373 

Gavage 439 

Gelatin 10, 203 

" Digestibility of . .203 
" Nutritive Value of . 203 
" Source of . . . . 203 
'* Principles of Cooking 203 
Gelatinoids . . 8—10, 140 

Ginger 33 

Glucose (See Dextrose). 

Gluten Bread 248 

" Standards . . . 249 
Gout, Acute, Diet in . . 367 
** Chronic, Diet in . . 368 
Grape Sugar (See Dextrose). 

Grapes 278 

Gruels 236, 23d 

Gums 18 

H. 

Heat, Average Normal Out- 
put from Body ... 62 
Heart Disease, Diet in . . 396 
Helpless, Feeding the . . 78 

Horse-radish 33 

Hospital Dietaries . . . 323 

/. 

Ice Box and Contents . . 91 
Ice Cream 307 



1 GENERAL INDEX 


1 


PAGE 




.^ ■ 


Ice, Keeping of, in Sick Room 83 




43 ^M 


IC.S 313 


Lichens '-'.'.'.', 


234 ^M 


Infant Feeding . . . .406 


Lime StjirvBtion . . . 


32 ^M 


■ " " Artificial . 410 


Lipase 


40 


V " " Caloric Val- 


Litliemia, Diet in . . 


367 


■■ ues of 429 


Lying-in Period, Diet in 


403 


rlofftnt Feeding, Formula for 418 






■ " " Hygiene of 






Natnral 408 


M. 




Infant Keeding, Mavnard 






Lndd Table for . . .425 


Macaroni 


235 


Infant Feeding, Sclieme of 


Magnesium .... 


29 


at Lying-in Hospital, 




29 


N. Y . 431 


Maltase 


40 


Infant Feeding, Table Show- 


Maltose 


40 


ing Proportions for 


Marasmus in Infanta, Di* 




Healthy Child . . .427 


tetic Treatment of . 


441 


Intestinal Diseasea, Biet in . 381 


Mastication .... 


41 


Iron 2B 


Mat/oon 


192 






SS 


J. 


Apotiiecarics' '. 


100 




" Approximate . 


100 


Jellies, Starchy . . . .244 


of Volume, Metri 




Juice, GaBtrie 38 


System .... 


101 


" Intestinal .... 33 


Measures of Weight, Metri 




" Pancreatic .... 38 


System .... 


101 


Junket ISO, 293 


Measures, Table of . . 


99 




Measuring Cup, Standard 


OS 


K. 


Meat ...... 


140 




" Absorption of . 


141 


Katabolism 50 


" Broiling of . . . 
" Composition of . . 


142 


Kefir 102 


140 


Kumyss 191 


" Cooking .... 


142 




" Cuts of . . . 143 


146 


L, 


" Digestibility of . 
" Effect of Cooking . 


141 




141 


Lsctelbumin 1S5 


" Effects of Water on 


143 


Lactase 42, IBS 


" Energy Value of . 


149 


Lactose 14, 183 


" Jellies , . 204, 218 


221 


Lamb 145 


" Nutritive Value of 


140 


" Cuts of .... 148 


" Quality of . . . 


143 


" Test for Good . . .145 


•' Uncooked . . . 


141 


Laparotomy, Diet after . . 399 


Metabolism of Carbohydrates 


52 


Lecithin 26 


" Fat . . 


62 


Leg'imes 262 


" Protein 


51 


Composition of . . 262 


Metric System . . . 


101 


Digealibilitv of . 263 


Milk as a Beverage . 


35 




" Ash of . . . 185 


186 


ing 263 


" Care of ... . 

4 


187 



472 



GENERAL INDEX 



Milk, Certification of 
" Composition of . 
" Condensed . 
" Desiccated . 



PAGE 

. 187 

. 184 

. 192 

. 193 



it 






" Difference Between Hu- 
man and Cows . . . 410 
Milk, Digestibility of . .185 
Energy Value of . .193 
Evaporated . . .194 
" Fats of . . . 185, 186 
(See Cream, Butter.) 
Milk, Fermented . . . .191 
" Formulae, Fat to Pro- 
tein =3:1 .... 419 
Milk, Formulffi, Fat to Pro- 
tein =2:1 .... 422 
Milk, Formulffi, Fat to Pro- 
tein, nearly Equal . . 423 
Milk, Home Modification of 414 
Human, Drugs in . . 405 
Laboratory . . .414 
" MetschnikolT's Arti- 
ficially Soured Milk . 191 
Milk Modification ... 412 
" Modification, What Di- 
lution to Use . . . 413 . 
Milk, Modified .... 192 
'* Mothers, Composition 

of 407 

Milk, Nutritive Value of . 185 
" Pasteurisation of . . 188 
" Peptonized .... 192 
" Products .... 189 
" Quantity to Use in In- 
fant Feeding . . .413 
Milk, Skimmed . . . .186 

" Sour 190 

" Sterilisation of . . 188 
Milk, Sugar (See Lactose). 

Mineral Matter .... 29 

" Absorption of 49 

" " Amount and 

Kind of in Body . . 29 

Mineral Matter, Function of 29 

" " Importance 

of 31 

Mineral Matter in Plants . 31 
" " in Animal 

Food 30, 139 



PiCI 

Mineral Matter, Source of . 30 
" . " Uses of in 

Disease 39 

Moss, Iceland . . . . ! 285 

" Irish 285 

Mouth, Cleansingr of, before 

Feeding 77 

Mumps, Diet in . .' .' ! 350 
Mushrooms . . . . . 284 
Mustard •....! 34 
Mutton ... 145 

;; Cuts of . ' . ' . : 148 
Test for Good . . 145 
Myosin 10, 140 



Nasal Feeding 
Nephritic Diet . . 
Nervous Disorders, Diet in 
Nitrogen Balance 
Nursing Bottle . . .' i 

" Mother, Diet of 

" Schedule for 
Nut Butters . . . ' ' 
" Flours ....'.' 

Nutmeg 

Nutrition \ 

" Conditions for Per- 
fect 

Nutrition, Diet in Disorders 

of 

Nuts 

Composition of 
Cooking of ... . 
Digestibility of 
" Nutritive Value of 



0. 



79 

392 

395 

54 

415 

404 

409 

283 

283 

34 

36 



it 

(S 



355 
283 
283 
283 
284 
284 



Obesity, Diet in ... . 370 

Oils 19 

Volatile 21 

Olein 20 

Oranges 277 

Oleomargarin 20 

Onions 264 

Ovariotomy, Diet after . . 399 

Oysters 166 



GENERAL INDEX 



Oysfera, Composition of 
" Digestibility of . 
" Energy Value of 
" Principles for Cook- 



Palmitin 20 

Pancreatic Juice .... 38 

Parsnips 26* 

Paateurisation . . . .103 
" Apparatus for 194 

Peas (See Legulnea). 

Pectin Bodies 277 

Pepper 34 

Pepsin 37 

Action of ... , 37 

Peptogenic Milk Powder in 

Infant Feeding . . . 433 

Peptones 37. 39 

Percentage Solutions, Tables 

tor Preparing . 104 

Phosphorus . . . . 20, 29 
Physicians' Directions for 

Feeding the Sick . . 72 

Pineapples 278 

Pneumonia, Alcohol in . 349 

Diet in . . 348 

Polyeaccharides . . 10-19 

Pork 145 

Potassium 29 

Potatoes 264 

Energy Value of . 28li 

Poultry 152 

" Digestibility of . 153 
" General Rule of 

Cleaning 153 

Poultry, Principles o( Cook- 
ing 153 

Pregnaniy, Diet in . . . 401 
Prematurity, Feeding in , 440 
Protein, Absorption of . .47 

" Add 39 

Alkaline ... 39 



Cooking of . 



Protein, Digestion, Table of 39 

" Function of . . 10 
" Vegetable . . .10 

Proteoses 39 

Prunes 278 

Ptomaine Poisoning ... 93 

Ptyalin 40 

Puddings, Bread . . . .302 

Punctuality in Serving 

Meals 75 

Purina 11 

Q- 

Quinsy, Diet 34G 

B. 

Radishes 264 

Rectal Feeding . . . 79-83 

" FormulsB for 82 

" " Teciinique of 81 

Keflex, Pharyngeal ... 41 

•' Pyloric .... 38 

Rennin 37 

Rheumatism, Acute, Diet in 388 

Chronic, Diet in 370 

" Diet in . . . 370 
Rickets in Infanta, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . . 441 

RooU 263 

S. 

Saccharin 15 

Salad Dreseinga .... 272 

Salads Z72 

Salsify 204 

Salt (See Sodium Chloride) 34 

Sandwiches 268 

Sauces 33 

Salt Starvation .... 32 
Scurvy, Infantile, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . . 441 

Seasickness, Dietetics of . 402 

Sedentary, Diet of . . . 443 

Shell-Fish 166 

Sherbets 312 

Sick, Feeding the ... 72 j 



GENERAL INDEX 



223 



40 



Skin DiseasSB, Diet In . 

Sodium 

Sodium Chloride .... 
" " as a Condi. 

" Acconipaniments 

" General Rule for 

Blendiug 

Spii^eB 

tipinach 

" Cooking of . . . 

" Descripliou of 

" Digestion of . . . 

" Food Uses of 

" Source of ... 17 

" Test for .... 19 

Btarvutioii Diet . . . .334 

Steak, Broiled .... 149 

Steapain (See Lipase) 

Stearin 20 

Sterilisation 194 

Stirring in Cookery ... 90 

Stomach 3<t 

Fundus of . . . 3T 
" Pyloric Sphincter of 38 
" Tube, Use of . .79 

Strontium 32 

Sucraae 42 

Sugar 13 

" Dietetic Uses of . . 15 
" Digestion of ... 42 

" Invert 277 

" of Milk (See Lac- 
Sugar Starvation .... 357 
Substitutes for . . 15 
" Testa for .... 10 
" Use of in Cookery . 15 

Sulphur 29 

Surgical Cases, Dietetic 
Management of . . . 397 

Sweetbreads 200 

" Definition of . 200 

" Digestibility of 200 

" Energy Value of 201 

Sweetina 15, 110 

Syntonin 10 



Tallow , 



■' Active Principlea of 

" Effects of 
Thermometry 
Top Milk Method' 
Toast .... 
Tubers (See Roots) 
TubercuIoBis, Diet i 
Turnips 



U. 

Ulcer, Gastric Diet in 

Massacliuaetta Gen 

Hospital 
Unconscious, Feeding the 
Uric Acid Excess (St 

Lithsemia) . 
Utensils, Disinfection of 



^*«' ..... 141 

■' Test for Good ' iH 

Vegetables -...;; H 

"^ Digestibility of . 282 

Composition of 261 

green . g^; 

Cooking .... 2BS 

Vegetable Sauces . ' 271 

Vinegar .... .' 3^ 
Viscera, Animal, Food Uses 

Vomiting, Diet in . . ' 402 
" in Young Chil- 
dren, Dietetic Treatment 
"* 438 

W. 

Wafers 2SO 

Water os 



GENERAL INDEX 



476 







PAGE 




PAGE 


itei 


r. Absorption of , 


. 49 


Water, Well .... 


. 26 


ti 


Alkaline . 


. 28 


Weaning 


. 410 


(t 


Boiled 


. . 27 


Weight Development of 


In- 


« 


Carbonated . 


. . 27 


fant, Computation of . 429 


« 


Classification of 


. . 25 


Weights 


. . 98 


« 


Composition of 


. . 23 


Table of . . 


. . 99 


« 


Distilled . 


. . 27 


" Apothecaries 


. . 100 


« 


Drinking . 


. . 25 


Wet Nurse . . . , 


. . 407 


« 


Filtered . . 


. . 26 


" Diet of . , 


. . 404 


« 


Food Uses of 


. . 25 


Whey 


. . 190 


« 


Functions of . 


. . 24 


Whey-made Formulae 


. . 424 


« 


Hard . 


. . 25 


Whey Mixtures, Method 


for 


<* 


in Animal Food 


. . 139 


Calculating . 


. . 428 


M 


Properties of 


. . 23 


Whooping Cough, Diet i 


in . 351 


« 


Rain . 


. 26 






« 


Soft . . . 


. . 25 






M 


Sources of 


. . 24 


Z. 




M 


Spring . . 


. . 26 






« 


Temperature of 


. . 28 


Zwieback 


. . 19 



INDEX TO 
PURE FOODS — SUPPLIES FOR THE DIET- 
KITCHEN — SUPPLIES FOR THE 

SICK-ROOM 

" Good nutrition depends upon pure and healthful food." 
There is no subject which should more engross attention 
than the purity of the preparations that are used in the va- 
rious compounds for the human stomach, and in the sick- 
room. 

A. F. P. 



It is delicious, pure and healthful 




Baker's 

Breakfast 

Cocoa 

EXCELS IN ALL THE 
ESSENTIALS OF A 
GOOD COCOA 
IT haa tlie delicious natunl 
* flav(»rof the best cocoa beans, 
scientilically blended, unim- 
paired by the addition of any 
foreign flavoringsubstances. 
Its purity is unquestioned, 
samples purchased in the 






^Ithful, supplying the body with soine 
of the purest elements of nutrition in a most agreeable 
form. These qualities combine to make it Ike ideal 
food beverage. 

63 HIGHEST AWARDS IN EUROPE AND AMERICA 



WALTER BAKER & CO. LTD. 

Established 1780 DORCHESTER. MASS. 



i 



I AD 



A Drink in Fevers 



A teaspoon of Horsford's Acid Phos- 
phate added to a glass of cold water 
makes a cooling and refreshing acidulous 
drink for the patient during convalescence 
from typhoid and other febrile conditions. 

Its superiority over Dihite Phosphoric 
Acid, or any other acid, is due to the fact 
that it contains the phosphates of cal- 
cium, sodium, magnesium andiron, which 
means increased nutrition. 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate 

is more palatable and strengthening than 
lemonade, lime Juice, or any other acidulous 
drink. 

If your druggist cannot Niippl}' jou we will send 
small bnLtlo prepaid on rcreipt of S5 conta 



RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Providence, R. I. 




Fellows' Syrup 



of the 



Hypophosphites 



The great care taken 
in the manufacture of 
FELLOWS' SYRUP, 
in order to secure purity 
of ingredients and uni- 
formity in strength, is 
responsible for the 
brilliant results obtained 
from its administrBtion 



«»'«<:z 



and Inefficient Subttitutea 
'PreparatJon* "Just u Good" 



r^ 



JUNKET 

The Perfect Milk Food 

JUNKET TABLETS comain absolutely nothing buc [he 
pure Rennet Ferment and a little pure table salt. No chemi- 
cals whatever enter into their manu&ctnre. 

Ideal for the prepanrLon of WHEV, MODIFIED or HUMANIZED 
MILK., JUNKET PUDDINGS and ICE CREAM in cndlei. v,ri«,. 
10 Tablets for 1" quMrts, 10c. iOO Tablets in a package, Ide. 




Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablets 

Compreised Lactic Fcnnenr Culture prcpaied at ibc Bacleiiolngical de- 
pinmenc of Cht. Hinien'i Laboratory, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
ConTctu lugir of milk into lactic acid, rendering the milk pibtaUe and 
healthtiil, and a prevenlive and cunriTC for many intestinal disorder!. 
15 Tablets in a. vial. B5c. 75 Tablets in a package, 81 .00 

At all druggljts, or by mail direct from the raqnufecmter. 

CHR. HANSEN'S LABORATORY 
Box 1709 LITTLE FALLS, N. Y. 




HI 



IHHHHHHHI 

Suggested for Diet 

N. B. C. Zwieback Uneeda Biscuit 

N. B. C. Graham Crackers Water Thins 

Bent's Water Crackers 

Cracknels (Egg Biscuit) 

N. B. C. Oatmeal Crackers 



l ^^ i TTiese ate seven of the National Biscuit 

l^pi Company products especially desirable 

for dietary purposes. They contain all 

1^^ the requisite food elements for people 

I ' not on normal rations — appetizing ap- 

l^^l pearance, digestibility, nutrition, clean- 

' liness, relish, freshness. 

|^g)| National Biscuit Company products are 

r-sE-i easy of assimilation because of their 

[^PH lightness and wholesomeness. N. B. C. 

r^-. products (and they are made in a wide 

1^ variety) are world famous for their 

I . purity and freshness. 

|S| NATIONAL BISCUIT. 

^ COMPANY 



HHHIllgllllHHHH 




Useful Foods 

in Typhoid Kever 

Peptoniced Milk — Whoiemiikwiih the. 

such ayj^ree ihal il torms only minute, floccul 
coagula, thus avoiding complicalionsdue 
"cheese-like muses of C3S ' 
ed milk has ihe iiouriahing properties of whole 
from the qualities which so often constitute a serious draivbick 
to its use as a food. Very simply prepared by means of 
Peptonising Tubes, Fairchild, and "Recipes." 
Samples and "Recipes" upan requist. 
Wney — Contains the soluble albuminoids, sugar and saline coiuti- 
tiienta oi Ihe milk and (in suspension) ihe particles of casein and 
fat which may pass through the strainer. Refreshing and e»- 
celleni fluid food. Very simply prepared from fresh milk with 

"Pepaencia" {Essence of Pepaine, Fairchild) 

Analysis and " Direelions" upon requtsl. 

PanopeptOn Contains the entire soluble digestible substance of 

beef and wheat in a sterile and perfectly assimilable solution: 
designed especially as a food (or Ihe sick, for the nutrition of 
the patient in acute illness and under conditions where food in 
its native form or as ordinarily cooked or prepared is unsuitable 
or intolerable. May be giveo on cracked ice, in jelly iatra, 
as a cordial, etc. 
Recipes upon request. 

Whey with PanOpepton Cracked ice, lablcspoonfu 

Panopeplon, cup filled with whey, drink slowly; admin 
liquid food for fever patients and convaleai 

Lsibose — Faircbild's whole-milk-and-wheal food; the •olidi 
pure whole milk and the entire digestible substance of y' 
wheat in a dry granular form. Made ready (or use timpM 

*, the addition of water. Samples 

Ni iiialyseB upon request, 

Fairchild Bros. & FostSj 

New Yorf 




Fruit and Jell-0 

Dainty and delicious combinations of Jel1-0 and fmit are made In a 
minute, and these dishes are not only especially suitable for serving 
where lime for preparation is limited, butfor the regular tlinner course 
or any sjiecial meal. 

Ihe folltiwing is a recipe furnished by Mrs. Sarah Tyson Rorer, the 
famous cook and authority on culinary and other household topics. 
The fruit used can be changjed or 
omitted altogether to meet re- 
quirements in the sick room ot 
elsewhere : 
Mrs. Rorcr's Orange Jaabalaya. 
Fillaraouldorbowlhalf fullof 
jnixeil sliced fruit — oranges and 
bananas, or otlier fruits in their 
season. Dissolve one package of 
Orange Jell-O in one pint of boil- 
ing water. , When cool, pour it 
over the fruit in the mould. 
Ctiopped nuts may be added. Set 
away to cool, file whipped cream 
on top if desired. 

I'ure fruit flavorings are used 
in mnkins 





jELL-0 






-ct our famous 
wholesome 







preparation : 
and heallhful. 

There are seven Jell-O flavors, 
aU^«re/i-«;/>aio«.' Strawberry. 
Raspberry, Orange, Lemon, Cher- 
ry, Peach, Chocolate. 

All grocers and general store- 
keepers carry Jell-O in stock and 
sell it at 10 cents a package. 

In every package of Jell-O there 
is a little recipe book full of rec- 
ipes for making all kinds of de- 
licious desserts, and we have a 
larger recipe book which we will 
send free to all who write and ask 



THE CENESF-E PITRE FOOD CO„ 



FOR WELL AND SICK 

Minute Tapioca 



\ 



It is a light, healthful, delicious dessert, high in food 
value and very nourishing: ', made from oalj the most 
carefully selected material. 

It requires no soakiiig, can be cooked in fif< 
teen minutes, and with it can be prepared any 
one of an almost endless variety of desserts. 
Try the recipes for Minute Tapioca in this book. 
If you want to know more 
ways of preparing it write us for 
our free Minuteman Cook Book. 
Samples Free on receipt of 

name of your grocer. Ask 
your grocer fur the package 
that bears the red Minuteman. 

At All Good Grocers 



MinuteTapioca Co. 

\ ORANGE, MASS. 
223 W. Main Street 





Welch's 

QrapeJiuce 




"^ATURE'S own product, the pure 
juice of perfect Concords, rich in 
invert sugar, fruit acids and mineral salts; 
full of that tart fruity flavor so welcomed by 
the fever sufferer. 

Administer it to your typhoid patients, to 
your child sufferers, in convalescence and 
whenever your judgment recommends a 
pure fruit juice. It's an energizing appetite 
restorative with its acid tang and delicate 
aroma — a food beverage the patient in- 
stantly takes to and never tires of, because 
it brings the cheer and vim of happy we\l 
days to come. Serve it cold in a small thin 
glass. 



Sample pint bottles gladly lent posl- 
paid 10 nurses, physiciana, sanitiriunii 
and hospitals. Send for deacriplive 
1 recipes tor tasty aide- 
rs. Free upon requtsl. 



^ The Welch Grape Juice Co. 

ffj Portage Street Westficld, N.Y, 




GOOD THINGS TO EAT 

THAT ARE 

HOME MADE 

PRESERVES, MARMALADES, PICKLES. 
RELISHES, JELLIES, MINCE MEAT, 
PLUM PUDDING. 



This Kitchen is tinder the personal supervis- 
ion of Miaa Cliiwis, who assures the public that 
only tiie purest and best goods are used in her 
establishmeut. 



SPECIALTIES 

GINGER PEARS, GRAPE CONSERVE, 
SPANISH PICKLE, CENTURY RELISH. 

Special prunes to Ifonpltah, IL/.eh, Clubs, etc. 

C. E. CHIVTIS, • • MDUKT TERNON, NEW lORK 



i^ 



ORIGINAL 




MALTED MILK 



II IVIAI_T t. U IVI I 



Pure full-cream milk combined with 

the extracts of selected grains 

reduced to powder form 

DELICIOUS, INVIGORATING, 
NOURISHING 

Selected recipes will be found in this book (or 
preparing original delicacies from Horlick's Malted 
Milk that will not fail to tempt the appetite of 
fastidious patients. Samples Sent Free and Ex- 
press Paid. 

ASK FOR 

HORLICK'S 



OTHERS ARE IMITATIONS 

HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO. 

RACINE, WIS. 



i 



GUM GLUTE.N 



e prcxluct msde 

:id Hix-tenths Is.e) per cent, or Nitrogen, sad not more thoji ten (1d} 
;r cent, of Moisture," 

NOTE— [Jains the factor, e,SS, iisuslir employed by the U. 5. 
overniiient chemlals, Standard Gluten Flour muat, Uiererore, ahow 
: icast tliirtr-flYe {»5) per cent, protein. 



lat it may be due to the increa^d use of malted and dei 
;real fnods. at a time when the digestive organs are not p 
> digest ithem. h very probale. 

Cow's mill! differs from mother'B milk <n that the casein i 
mllli coagulates as soon ux it reacties tile stomach and o 

tact with the rennet ferment, into « ehwae-likp maiuL 

ot easily broken upand digested by t 



Gluten Flour li especially 

Hayt-s Gum Gluten resembles milk in thnt Its chief element 
la nitrogenous, and of the same muscle-forming character as 
casein, and require essentially the same fermenta for their proper 



stained, and give strength, after which milk and milk-sugar may 

SWEBTINA 
NEW PRODUCTS 

GUM GLUTE.M DAINTY FLUFFS 
GUM GLUTEN BREAD STICKS and BREAD ROLLS 

HOW PR.OCURED 

As a rule the leading grocer in a, city is agent for Hoyt's Gum 
Gluten, If not easily procured write us and «b will gladly send you 
name of our nearest agent, price-list and starch restricted menu. 
Send us a tc stamp ood we will forward yuu a sample of our 
DAINTY FLUFFS. 

PURE GLUTEN FOOD CO. 
90 W. Broadway New YorR 




PURITY ABSOLUTE FLAVOR UNIQUE 



NOTHING FINER PRODUCIBLE 

" h ii OUT opinion the analytical tc*ti of the UNITED STATES 
BUREAU OF CHEMrSTRY ptovo NICELLE OUVE OIL 

•upeiior to all known biandi Idled ."-ST1LLWELL & CLADDING, 
Official Cheniiti to New Yoik Produce Exchange. 



Mi> AUDA FRANCES PATTEE M» CORNELIA C. BEDFORD 
Mk, FANNIE MERBIT FARMER Min JANET MACKENZIE HILL 
Mn. HELEN ARMSTRONG Mm ANNA BARROWS 



NICELLE OUVE OIL CO. 

96 Warren Street. New York City 

FOREIGN OFHCES: 
PARIS, 10 Avenue de i'Opera NICE, 7 Place Defly 



4 




0( whose ironEflji'a una resting ciuaUty 
Ibete le no fellow >a tSe Ormameut." 




^^ei 



Dear- 
Docioj-^ 

'Revalue jf Kumyss as 
a food, in almoSi^ve'r^ 
morbid condition ospocially 
whontfeo stomach and nniri- 
tion aro involved , is so woU 
Known i&at it soems supor- 
flttous to call uour attontion 
to it'iS morits-s^Dut there are* 
Just now, so nianyhnitations 
and so much stiDstitutin5 
that I wish to call upiu" atton- 
tion to tho fact that all the 
genuine is stoppered with 
crown caps marked 

DR. E. r. BRUSH 

LABORATORY. MOUNT VERNON. N. V. 
N. Y. Office. 217 W. 123d St. 




Liquid Peptonoids (Emergency Food) 

When there is dishke for ordinary food, or 
inability to digest or assimilate it, to main- 
tain strength and tide over the emergency. 

Lactopeptine (Digestant) 

When inability exists to digest food, and 
digestive secretions, enzymes and functional 
activity need to be assisted or augmented. 

Borolyptol (Andgeptic) 

Thoroughly, pleasantly and promptly disin- 
fects, deodorizes and opposes germ action 
without irritating or any change of poisonous 
action. 



The Arlington Chemical Company 

The New York Pharmacal Association 

The Palisade Manufacturing Company 

Yonkera, New York 




What Two of the World's Greatest Au- 
thorities on Invalid Dietetics say of 

SANATOGEN 

Professor C. A. Ewald of Berlin, writing in 
" Zeitschrift fuer diaetetische & physicalische 
Therapie" says: 
"Sanalogen, on account of its being very easily absorbed 
and its perfectly non-irritating character, may be used with 
great advantage, that is, for the purpose of increasing the 
nutritive value ot a given diet, in al] cases of physical 
weakness, especially in those of a chronic nature, as well 
as in the acute stages of all those maladies vchich are ac- 
companied by high rise of temperature, ami particularly 
in typhoid fe'vtr." 

Professor C. von Noorden of Vienna, states: 
"As the result of my trial of S an atogen. extending over 
a period of several years, I regard Sanatogen as an excel- 
lent protein preparation. 

An especially responsive class of cases to its use, com- 
prises all diseases in which the object is to promote tissue- 
building, such as various forms of anemia, particularly 
chlorosis and most varieties of mal-nutrition, since San- 
atogen most energcticaiiy promotes protein assimilation." 



It is safe (or you to follow their lead and Ihe lead of 
18,000 physicians who have recommended Sanatogen over 
their signatures as a reconstructive tonic during Fevers 
and Convalescence, after Operations, in Gastro-Inteilinal 
Disturbances, in Neurasthenia and wherever the object is 
quick[y and effectually to improve the patient's strength 
and vitality. 

Sanatogen is purest albumin in combination with 
sodium glycerophosphale-if is free from purins, ialorstarch, 
and may be used safely for diabetic or gouty patients. 

Sample and literature free to Nurses. 

THE BAUER CHEMICAL CO. 

30 IRVING PLACE ii >i NEW YORK 



A NEW EDITION REVISED AND ENLARGED 

INSTITUTION RECIPES 

FOR USE IN 

SCHOOLS. COLLEGES. HOSPITALS. 
AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS 

By EMMA SMEDLEIY 

Suptrinttndtnt of HilkSchaol Lancheofll, Philadilehia, Pa.! Formtrl, 
InMlTucloT in Domeilic Scitnet. Drrxtl Inililalt, Philadelphia; 



'T'HIS work will provt; indispensable to the dietitiai 

schools, hospitals and other institutions wha« 
attractive, wholesome and economical food in large 
quantities is demanded. 

The recipes have been carefully tested in actual 
daily use, and, unlike the usual cookery book designed 
for use in the home, they aie here given in quantities to 
serve either fifty or one hundred and fifty portions. 

In addition to the many valuable recipes, the book 
contains chapters which deal with the equipment of the 
institution kitchen, and the equipment, menu and ad- 
ministration of the high-school luncheon. 

" Institution Recipes " has been greatly appreciated 

by all who have used it, and this enlarged edition will 

answer the repeated requests for a fuller treatment of 

the subject. 

Price. $1.25 nel By Mail. $1.35 C. 0. D.. $1.50 

FOR SALE BY 

A. F. PATTEE, Mt. Vernon, New York 





COX'S 

Inst&nt 

Powdered 

GELATINE 



GELATINE was first made by J. & G. Cox as a 
substitute for calves' ieet in tbe preparation of a 
nutritious food for invalids, about the year 1845, 

For many years it was sold only by Druggists as a 
specific for invalids through medical suggestion. 

COX'S INSTANT POWDERED GEF^ATTNE 
is produced under i<leal condi- 
tions, and is the PUREST and 
most economical Gelatine on 
the market. 

Sold by all Grocers. 
ALWAYS in the Red, White 
and Blue CHECKERBOARf) 
Packages. 

Cox's Manual of Gelatine 
Cookery, containing over tW 
recipes, will be sent, post- 
paid, on reijuest, 

THE COX GEUTINE CO. 

(Rtpieici.lb» J. & G. C,.i, Umilnl) 

100 Hudson Street 

New York 




u 











National Head- 
quarters for 

DIETITIANS 




HOSPITALS desiring dietitians 
can secure the services of grad- 
uates from leading Schools of 
Household Arts by applying to 
us. Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is made 
for this service. 

DIETITIANS desiring hospital 
positions are invited to register 
with 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South First Avenue, 
Mt. Vernon, New York 


ii)6 



THERAPEUTIC APPUCATION OF OUH OLUTEN 

Dyipepaia. GailriliSi Etc. — Being non-fermenfative snd 
quickly reduced by (he dignllve fluids, Gum Gluten ia a food in 
perfect harmony with the action of the stomach and can be eaten 
fn fki lom ol Ecud. 

Convalesoenoe. — As Gum Gluten is remarkahl^ rich in 
Dudeo-albumen and all other cell-buiiding material, il is capable 
of greatly quickening and intensifying the integrating processes 
□f cell lite and living impulsive energy and force in the revival 
of the system to its normal metabolism. 

Rheumatism, Gout and Uric Acid Diatheiis — Being 
non-acid making and n on -fermenting, and digested by the action 
of the stomach, Gum Gluten has a distinct specjlic value in all 

Obesitr-- 

Diabetes Metlitus.— Gum Gluten can be made into bread 
and a great variety of dishes, and is the most aatiafaclory substi- 
tute for the wheat flour bread or bread in common use, and the 
effects are particularly noticeable in the reduction of sugar in the 

Other CooditioDB.^ — All anarmic and chloroiic conditions 
due to an insufficient supply of red blood corpuscles or lack of 
hasmoglobin, or both, and more remotelv to a disordered nutri- 
tion, are furnished the one thing needed by Gum Gluten. 

For Nuriiot Mothers. — ft enriches the lacteal secretions. 

For Infants' Food.— To increase the amount of protein Gum 
Gluten Flour should .be added to cow's milk to keep it from 
coagulating and fermenting. 

For the expectant mother it supplies the prenatal aliment par 
excellence, since it is rich in all those elements vihich serve to 



For the Aged, (he Eafeebledi the Invalid, and all whose 
vital powers are waning, Gum Gluten will be found a most 
vtholesome, sustaining and helpful food. In its blood-making 
property it restores to the system the loss which has resulted in 
enervation and decline. 

ir new starch restricted diet-list 



PURE GLUTEN FOOD COMPANY 
90 W. BROADWAY NEW YORK 



r 



Gazette Pocket Speller and Def iner 

iSicond, Reoitid Edilhn) 

THISuniqjevalame 
isa combined Eog. 




Sin4/sr Spicime-, Pas^i und Olh.r P^rticlart 

THE DtETETIC AND HVaiENIC aAZETTE 

206 BrOBdway New York City 



I 




q 



Pennsylvania Orthopaedic Institute 

AND 

School Of MechanoJherapy 



1709.1711 Gre 



Phil>delph>>, Pa. 



COURSES IN MEDICAL MASSAGE 
Swedish Movements. Medical snd Orthopaedic 



remi 4 Months 



ioa Fee, $8S.OO 



Course in Electro-Therapy 



I 



Ulaisea open u 



A1lc< 
four nil 



in piitienla referred 



Jlinida rrum vnriuua Hospllal 
uiftpennanes. Liec'iurea ana uinzzes on Anatciniv, Ptiyslalo^ and 

Fnthology by Physkiang of the staff. Demonstrations and InBtraction 
in the use of all mechanica.1 apparatus. Complete Medico- Uechsnicsl 
Zander OymnHuum. X-Ray Laboratory. 

Original Swedish (LinB) system, and Weir Mitchell's Rcst-Cure synteni- 
A1I pupils attend clinics at several city hDspltalK, FayniFnts ran be 
made to suit your convenienc?. Particulars and illustrated booklet on 
MosiaBE upon requesL An aarly applinatiaii for adMiuiionu advlu- 
blc. A diploma is awarded at the end of the term. 

ed wiUi the institute. Special attention paid to proper dk-t. 

STAFF OF INSTRUCTORS 
J.HiJi»aTiylor,A.,...H.D.(UiiiT . 



c.Thnm 



a,Pl.,0,M.D. 



Unit. P«u 
M« J. Wilier, M. D, (U. 



i^j^j,: G™r„,TJ 



>'.Med.ajlw>. 
nlLyon.H.D.iJuhiHupUiii 
■ id «iid P.lhd™ 



I and MelhodiU Hc^huIb. 



LlllieH. Nirlbill. FunieS. Frinli 

Ediih W. Knlfbt. Eliislxlli Jioii»a 
pFuniyl'iaia Oltlia^cilic liudlule. 
Ill iUuilntedpnapeciusiddrFHrheSuperlalEaJsn 
MAX J. WALTER, M. D., Snpi 





ECZEMA, 

THUMB SUCKING, 
LEFT HANDEDNESS, 
NAIL BITING 

■HAND- 

i-HOLD" X INVALUABLE IN 

BABE MITS X ,,„„„,„., 
are light- «/eight. \H O S P I T A L 
daintily enamelled balls/\^^ SERVICE 
spunwithout seam from al-\^^ ' 

uminum. They are ventilatedx^E T C, ETC. 
and have sleeves of wash fabrii 



The hands are confined in the balls, which makes It 
\ absolutely impossible for the child to scratch, suck 
1 \ hK thiimh. hite his finper nailK. or nir.k at bandapRs. 



thumb, bite his finger nails, or pick at 
Yet It Is all done so gently and humanely that thi 
child Is made happy by their use, for his arms, 
wrist, and fingers are practically tree from restraint 
So sure are we of results that we guarantee satis- 
faction or refund your money, Wbether you have 
children in your home, or not, it will be well worth your 
while to drop a postal card for our FREE BOOKLET 
"D."which will tell you allabout"Hand-l-Hold"BabcMiei. 



1 




THE THREE (3) HYGEIA NURSING BOTTLES 
TAKE YOUR CHOICE 

THE NON-BREAKABLE 

HYGEIA is madf without gUsa. 

Thcreisnolhingto break. Thecozy 

' keeps the food warm. The tooii- 

; collapses, and air dots not 

;rthe bottle. Only two parts to 

clean, and these two parts can be 

posiblewithanyothernurser. The 
tood-bag is made oF pure gum, and 
lasts a long time, so thai the 
breast-nipple is about the only 
pan ncccasaryto replace frequently. 

THETWIN HYGEIA is open 
The Non-break- at both ends. SO the food cavity is 
easily acceesable for cleaning. It 
J— JickVi'opcn 11 has two breasts one of which forms 
jh>. hoiiom the base of the bottle. This can 
•—Food biE EDEi be vented or not, as preferred . 

(™°o" "■ THE REGULAR HYGEIA so 
long and favorably known, is now brought out 
with a new breast, with hidden shield, which 
prevents baby taking any portion of the breast 
into its mouth. 

ALL PARTS SOLD SEPARATELY 

BY ALL DRUGGISTS 
THE BALL-CUP NIPPLE, which has the 
puncture at the bottom of the cup, away from the 
tip, where it is protected from enlargement, regu- 
lates feeding better than any other nipple c 
the market, and will not collapse. It is 
•mall nipple for a amal] neck bottle only. 
WRITE FOR OUR BOOKLET 

HYGEIA NURSING BOTTLE CO. 

DEFT. A. 

BUFFALO, N. Y. 




1204 MAIN STREET 



The BEST WORK PUBLISHED for 
HOSPITAL INTERNES and 

SURGICAL NURSES 



■ The BEST 

K Hoa 

I 




THE SURGICAL ASSISTANT 



WALTER M. BRIGKNER, B.S., M,D, 

Assistant Adjunct Suigeon, Mount Sinai Hospitil, Ke< 
York, and Chief in Surgical Out-patient DepatWnenti J 
Surgeon to N. V. Sanitarium for Hebrew Children, 



It is replete with d( 




The flH/v iooi thai ii divotedlo Ihcmclhods and diilUr oflhtiie -wXo ASSIS\ 
Ue^rreDM, and contains descriptions oi all the important operation], *t^ b 
step,/r»n the assiilanfs standpoint. 

IwH III Clittli. 883 Pitw. Pn«, «.M hntpald. 



INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SURGERY 

MedlMl Pitllsliers 

100 miUlH STREET. 




icd}c^(^^^^ 



VAPORIZER 
IS SIX 
INCHES 
HIGH 




nt without internal medication isliiglily desiribie in Whooping 
.Spaimudlc CrcKip, particularly in the very youne. The value 
,___ J j_ r. .■ :. ^tfthe sedative 



S-^i -.- 

InHuetice of the 

breathed by the t ___. 

allayed and the patient gains needful resl. 



ir i^ffused through the 



[Ptic. power 



ESin which Cresolene has been espedallr utilized are Whn< 
■" '■ - lammalnry con, 

lof Diphtheri 






Cresolene is less 



A I* solution of Cre 

Typhoid Fever and piii _. . 

acid and has a greatec germicidal va 

For mIs by all Druggiiti. LitenituTe on requeil. 

THE VAPO-CRESOLENE CO. 

62 Cortlandt Street, New York City. 



Uemini-MUcu 



[. Montnal, Cinada. 



i 




EXCELSIOR 

QUILTING COMPANY 



The Excelsior Quilting 
Company make Quitted Pads 
of the correct weight for 
washing properly and of best 
material. Their "trade mark" 
is on every pad which they 
guarantee to be sanitary and 
perfect. Be careful and 
guard your beds against 
"sweat shop goods" and imi- 
tations which unscrupulous 
dealers offer you because 
they make more profit. 



Look carefully at this 
trade mark so you will know 




; when you go to shop". 



"NoOF jmuinr wiilioui 



-1 



THE STORM BINDER AND 
ABDOMINAL SUPPORTER 

IS ADAPTED TO USE OF MEN. WOMEN, 
CHILDREN AND BABIES 



NO WHALEBONES 



NO RUBBER ELASTIC 




SPECIAL 

support in cases oi prolapsed kidney, stomacb. colon, re- 
laxed sacroiliao articulations, and bcrnia; GENERAL 
support in pregnane]', obesity and geocral relaxationi a 

POSTOPERATIVE Binder after operation upon the kidney, 
stomach, bladder, appendix and pelvic organs, and after plastic 
operaiiona and in conditions of irritable bladder (o support the 
weight of the viscera. 

Try it for CHRONIC INDIGESTION due to Ptosis of 
Stomach or Colon: 

Send for Itlasirated fstder and itstimoniaU offhysicians. 

NURSES GIVEN AGENCIES UPON APPLICATION 

General Mail Orders Filled at PhiUdclpfais 

KATHERINE L. STORM, M.D. 

1541 Diamond Street PHILADELPHIA 



THE "NEAL" 

PORTABLE RUBBER. 
BATHTUB FOR CHILDREN 




This unique and prettj little Sanitary Bathing Apparatus 
InfentB Is one or the beat find most UBeful bathtubs on lue 
market. It has been In activo use over flrteen years and 
baa found IIB way Into iDnie of the flnest Nurserlea on both 
ints. The ■■Neal" Bathtub baa been succeastuUy 
1 p1ac3 of an Ineubator for premature and delicate 
tiablei. By wrapping the Intant In soft woolen blankets 
and placing hcL-water basa around the child, tbe rubber 
keeps Its uniform heat, and at the same time Inaurea 
plenty of fresh air. and Is of easy acceas to Pbyslclan and 
Nurse. This baa bpen lUOoeBsfuUy tried in a number of 
cases, Tbe Inventor of this little bathtub is a graduate of 
the New York City Hoapital Trslnlns School for Nursea. 
For further particulurb send tor tslaloguo and price liat to 
Miss 8. C. NEAL. Patentee and Manufacturer, 9ti FIFTH 
AVENUE. New York City. U. S. A. 




Ask your physician 

A user of Mennen's recently wrote us the 
following letter: My brother had a long spell 
of typho-tnalaria (ever and, of course, was com- 
pelled to lie in bed many weeks. He suffered very 
much from bed sores. They were very large on 
one of his heels, his hips, shoulders and elbows. 
The nurse began bathing these in alcohol and 
then covering them with Mennen's Borated 
Talcum Toilet Powder. They had almost en- 
tirely disappeared in about ten days. The nurse 
would use no other but Mennen's as she said it 
was pure and contained healing qualities." 

Your physician will tell you that Mennen's 
Borated Talcum Toilet Powder, because it is 
soft, pure and efficiently medicated, is the right 
powder to comfort and soothe the skin, and aid 
in keeping it healthy. Sample box Ic in stamps. 

Sold by all druggists. 



Manufactured by 

Gerhard Mennen Co. 

Newark, N. J. 



® 



Every Nurse should road this book 

PLASTER OF PARIS AND HOW TO USE IT 

Sooond Edition. Revised and Enlarged 



I 



This [s one of the moat ustful booka ever prewii led. not only on af count 
r the general deouiiid loi the informatian and jnstructton upnn the 
itgect which this hook ao explicitir, praelitBlly nnrt cmnprehenalvely 



1 by Dr. Ware, t 



mipreheDalv 
raOablB etc 



istic mnnnerehaiocleristicofthepi 

mna ofthe Surgery Puhli.'hing Company. 

t ]* prinred nsfon ooHtcd book pHpcr, aiid uttT^oiively 

y bias hnBkriLm. ilampBil In while leaf and <old. Pri. 

Fntpaid. 90 illu.lr.lioni. 

Buial Edlllon de Luie, ooie leather, Kold ed^e^ and stampiHl, S3.50. 



rely bom 



Plaate 



19 tittle I 
of Paris 



jtbylh 



"The book will be a h<rlp to 



1000 SURGICAL SUGGESTIONS' 



DK. E. MoacHcowrrz 

hj.ici.n Mount Sin.I Hoiplul Di.»«.i><r, N™ York; 
uoclm Edimi Afflei!c«n Joumil a) Suiicif. 
artli •dllion, wbile we could not laiprove the quality. 
asea the number of "SUBgealiona." making Ihia book, we 
Ht complete, praoticaland U!<erul mtinual omursicat eaggfa- 
.... .1 diagnostic hinta and UacCul therapeutic wrinklsa e 

produced. 

Regular Edition, cloth, Se 
eavy indla tint paper, with viicllcuuuiu i 
■asting ink. 

Price , SI. DO, Foil paid 
Speelal Full Library Edition de Liue. Ilnip o«ie leather hindinc. 
rtisticfllly lined, stnmpea in guld. with golil edtes, $2.3S, puatpaid. 



la Ihia, lb* fo 



!, Stamped in ^Id. Printed upon 



"They 



eofpi 



and til 



tell a. 



practitioner may "peruae them wllh prQflt.---y i 

II prnve pmrtU'ally invaluable lo every physician practji 
orsurgtry, us well as to the gi:ncrftl practltigiier as an aid 

diaglluaia. A leritabl tf st^>te hiilise,"— ^m rnrt M.J^ al Jnui-nal. 

SURGERY PUBLISHING CO. 

DONAI.D, Jr.. M.D., Pre.idcD(. 92 William Si.. N.Y., U.S.A. 



GALEN HALL 

by the Sea 
ATLANTIC CITY, N. 3. 

HOTEL AND SANATORIUM 




Resident physician and Nurses. Diet Kitchen also 
Bath Department giving 60 varieties of Tonic and 
Curative Baths. 



GALEN HALL 

in the Mountains 
WERNERSVILLE, PA. 




A First Cliiss Hotel with the advantages of a Sar 
torium. Resident physician and Baths, under sat 
management as Atlantic City. 



Of Interest to the Super- 
intendent and Nurse 

JOURNAL COMBINATION OFFERS 

THE FOLLOWING OFFERS APPLY 
TO NEW SUBSCRIBERS ONLY 

THE TRAINED NURSE ($2.00) and one 
copy of PiLttee's '■ PRACTICAL DIE- 
TETICS" ($1.50) $3.00 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF NURS- 
ING ($2.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
"PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. S3.25 

THE DIETETIC AND HYGIENIC GA- 
ZETTE ($1.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
"PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. $2.00 

THE CANADIAN NURSE ($1J5) and 
one copy of Pattee's "PRACTICAL 
DIETETICS" ($1.50) $2.25 

THE NURSE'S JOURNAL OF THE 
PACIFIC COAST ($1.50) and one copy 
of Pattees "PRACTICAL DIE- 
TETICS" ($1.50) $2.50 

THE NATIONAL HOSPITAL RECORD 
($1.25) and one copy of Pattee's "PRAC- 
TICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50) $2.50 

A. F. Pattee 

134 South First Avenue 
mt. Vernon, N. Y 



r 



ESTABLISHED 1874 




: ( g)AVOO "."» 

A NECESSITY IN EVERY HOME 
iS^ SICK ROOM 




islK^m'i 






DA VOL "HOUSEHOLD" RUBBER 
GOODS 



WE make eTerything for Uw "HoniehoU" BlU^BpelIl«» 

in Rubbei Goadi and the largest and best BidPui 

line of Atomliets on the msrket. THroii wjim bij 

ring a DAVOL WATER BOTTLE 

and a DAVOL FOUKTAIN SYRINGE and 

NOT-- SOMETHING JUST A3 GOOD" 







Mcdldna Jiropptf* 






ChcniEstB' Slopperi 



SSS that the Hjune 
ii on ereiy article yoa 
purcbiSE for home a:e. 



<gw6t) 



DAVOL RUBBER COMPANY 

STRICTLY HISH-GRADC RUBBER GOODS TOR THE "HOUSEHOLD" 

PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A. 

515 



ingSam for Nurses' Cnifornis 




'NO OIL TO SOIL" 



THE LAST WORD IN DUSTLESS DUSTERS 

Howard Extension Handle Dusters 

Will dust where no other handle duster can reach. Covers 
more surface than any other duster made. Will dust equally 
well Furniture, Floors, Walls or Ceilings; under and around 
Radiators without stooping. Treated with our exclusive 
process. CLEAN AND. STERILIZE WITH HOT 
WATER AND SOAP. 

dinp ihree-foot extension handled j,^-, .. ' ■ «. Vk 



« 



PRICE, i 



The Howard Dusters are used in more than 500 Schools in 

U.S. 

They are the Government Standard and the Standard of 

the world. 

St. Louis School Board have ordered 20,000, 

12 Different Styles for all purposes. 

Send for Duit-book and Small free aample 



HOWARD 



HOWARD DUSTLESS-DUSTER CO. 

300 SUMMER STREET BOSTON, MASS. 



IS 




Michigan. MmnoDta, the Black HUla. Ycllowalonc National 
pBrk, YoHrmilt Nflllonal Park, CoLorado, Utah, Coljfotnia, 
Orecon, WBthlnelon and the Paeifii: Northweal. 

Low Round Trip Summer Fares 

qthc palatial hfw PaBBingcr Tciminal In Chlcago—la p«r- 
licularly adapted in many ways to the conveuleQCe ol 

The Beat of Everything 

Chicago and 
UllJ North Western Railway 

A. C JOHNSON C A. CAIRNS 
P.T.M. G.P.6T.A. 

Chicago, III. 



BlBsasESEsasasasssBgasasaBasaHasagBSBSgsfQ 





The Smith Solitaire 
Board Co. 

7600 Wornsll Roiid 
KANSAS CITY, MO. 



Pattee's 
Hand=Bag Diet Book 

Consisting of 

Measures and Weights, Recipes 
and Hospital Dietaries 

REPRINTED FROM 

Pattee's "Practical Dietetics with 
Reference to Diet in Disease" 



IN response to requests from a large number 
of nurses these extracts from the Pattee's 
"Practical Dietetics with Referente to Diet 
in Disease" fanve been collated into a small book, 
suitable for the nurse's hand-bag. 

It is bound in lieavy paper and is sold only 
to nurses, purchasers of the complete edition. 
Those who do not purchase both the complete 
book and the Hand-Bag Diet Book at the same 
time can obtain the latter only when the coupon 
on the opposite page is forwarded to the publisher 
or bookseller from whom book was purchased 
and is accompanied by the nurse's professional 
card or hospital oi-der and the price of the 
book. Oi-dcrs will not be filled unless these 
instructions are followed. 

Price of Pattee's "Practical Dietetics" (Si. 50 
postpaid) with one copy Pattee's Hand-Bag Diet 
Book, $1.75 postpaid. 

This booklet is not published for general circula- 
tion, simply for the convenience of the nui-se for 
her hand-bag equipment. 

5-20 



COUPON 

The possession of this coupon entitles any 
nurse to the right to purchase one copy of Pattee's 

Hand-Bag Diet Book. 

Send this coupon with your professional card 
or hospital order and 30 cents to the publisher or to 
the bookdealer from whom the book was purchased^ 
and a copy will be forwarded postpaid. 

A. P. PATTEE, Publisher 
Mount Vernon New York 



Name 



Address. 



521 



V 










1 ■ 







.J 








i -fe 

I 

I 

I * 

I 




INDEX TO SUPPLIES 

FOR THE 

HOSPITAL— HOME— PHYSICIAN— NURSE 

FOODS: 

Cox's Gelatine 495 

Crackers*vBent;'s Water Crackers, Cracknels, N. B, C. Gra- 
hafti Crg,ckers,' N. B. C. Oatmeal Crackers, Uneeda Bis- 
cuits, Water Thins, N. B. C. Zwieback 481 

Dr. Brush's Kumyss 490-491 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate 478 

Horlick's Malted Milk 487 

Hoyt's Gum Gluten 488-497 

Jell-O 483 

Junket 480 

Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablets 480 

Lactopeptine 492 

Laibose 482 

Liquid Peptonoids 492 

Mellin's Food 463 

Minute Tapioca 484 

Nicelle Olive Oil 489 

Panopepton 482 

Peptonising Tubes 482 

Preserves, etc.. Home-made 486 

Rumford Baking Powder 446 

Sanatogen 493 

Walter Baker's Breakfast Cocoa 477 

Welch's Grape Juice 485 

MISCELLANEOUS SUPPLIES: 

Borolyptol 492 

Chicago & North Western Railway 518 

Coupon for Pattee's Handbag Diet Book 521 

Coward Shoe 503 

"Davol" Rubber Company 515 

Dietitians' Registry 500 

Dix-Make Uniforms 501 

Excelsior Quilted Mattress Pads 508 

Fellow's Syrup of the Hypophosphites 479 

Galen Hall 513 

Gazette Pocket Speller 498 

Gingham for Nurses* Uniforms 516 

"Hand-I-Hold" Babe Mits 504 

Home Bureau 502 

Howard Dustless Duster 517 

Hygeia Nursing Bottle 505 

Institution Recipes 494 

Journal Combination Offer 514 

Mennen's Toilet Powder 511 

••Neal" Bath Tub for Children 510 

Packer's Tar Soap 464 

Pattee's Handbag Diet Book 520 

Pennsylvania Orthopaedic Institute and School of Mechano- 

Therapy 499 

••Smith" Solitaire Board 519 

••Storm" Binder and Abdominal Supporter 509 

Surgery Publishing Company 512 

The Surgical Assistant 506 

Vapo-Cresolene 507 

By writing to the above Arms useful literature and samples will 
be forwarded upon request. In writing mention Pattee's Practical 
Dietetics and prompt attention will be given to your letter. 

592 



/ ■ 



j- 



■1 



kN .-^ f 



m 




CJ/LOU^^ 



^eji 









'^ti Q^^f^^U)e/Ofttifi^%n 



V, (/t/l- y&^ CL^iyvi \Q 



'^ 



p 



rx ^. »-0 r^ 



r 



•^ ^^^'^'V 



-7-n.v--p 



*^ *>' v^ 



y /^ ,.- /^ ^^- -^ "xrv 



xy\^^y^ 



'J 






■> I, >■ > .. ■ ^ ^> 




I / 



y ^* J- > i - ; ' v'- • ^ 






-n.-v^ 









/ 



-*^'^' 









''".T^Il^fe; 





16 Pattee, A.F. 11ES51 ' __ .n-^fl 
SI Practical dietetics. ' -f^. ^ ■ 
!14 .~U^ <-T) 1 


NAMH 


DATE DUB C 'S^H 




^l-^CC^ 




,ri5^1 




' J 




I t«i«a^B 




r ^^H 








^^^^^^1 




y'^ ^^^^1 




y^ ^^^^1 




/ ^^^H 




y H 






/ 


^^^^1 


/ 


^^^H 


/ // 


^^^1 


/ 




/ 


fl 




Bt\n |9or6 

g>tate College of agriculture 

St Cornell ^Hnibersitp 

Stftaca, M. B. 



Eibrarp 



Cornell University Library 
RM 216.P31910 



Practical dietetics, with reference to di 




■T 1924 003 487 992 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003487992 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 
WITH REFERENCE TO 
DIET IN DISEASE ^ ^ 



PRACTICAL 



DIETETICS 

WITH REFERENCE TO 

DIET IN DISEASE 



BY 

ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 

Graduate, Department o( Household Arts, Slate Normal School, 

Framingham, Mass. 
Late Instructor in Dietetics, Bellevue Training School for Nurses, 

Bellevue Hospital, New York City. 

Former Instructor at Mount Sinai, Hahnemann, and the Flower 

Hospital Training Schools for Nurses, New York City; 

Lakeside, St. Mary's, Trinity, and Wisconsin Training 

Schools for Nurses, Milwaukee, Wis.; St. Joseph's 

Hospital, Chicago, 111.; St. Vincent de Paul 

Hospital, Brockrflle, Ontario, Canada. 



SIXTH EDITION 

Revised and Enlarged 

Price $1.50 




F. PATTEE, Publisher 

Mount Vernon, New York 
1910 



Set up, electrotyped, printed, and copyrighted, June, 1903 
Reprinted July, 1904, February, 1905, October, 1906. and November, 1908 
Revised, reset, and recopyrighted December, 1910 



Copyright, 1903, 1904, 1905, igio, by 
ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 



Entered at Stationers' Hall 
^ Alt rights reserved 



JLo tbe ti:raine& murse: 
xmosc bail^ life is a 
blessing to bumanit^e 



PEEPACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION 

The very gratifying demand for this work has necessitated 
the preparation of a sixth edition. Advantage has been 
taken of this opportunity to revise the book and incorporate, 
as far as space allows, the latest results of research in die- 
tetics. To meet the growing tendency of physicians to pre- 
scribe the exact fuel value of a diet, the total energy value 
of each recipe has been calculated wherever data as to com- 
position of materials used are available, or the quantities 
of materials used are fairly constant. A table has also been 
introduced in which the food value of the materials used in 
the recipes is given. This will be useful in computing other 
food combinations, and in calculating the amount of protein^ 
fat or carbohydrates in any dietary, whenever required, with- 
out the tedious mathematical processes usually involved in 
such operations. 

It is hoped that a revised classification of food principles, 
greater emphasis on the valufe of mineral matter in the diet, 
and fuller discussion of the fundamental principles of nutri- 
tion, will add much to the usefulness of the book. 

In the introduction are presented outlines showing the re- 
quirements in dietetics of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Nurses, and the contents of the book have been 
rearranged to correspond directly with these requirements. 
This will materially aid the dietitian in arranging the course 
of study for the nurse so as to prepare her adequately for her 
State Examinations. 

Many years of experience as an instructor in dietetics in 
hospitals seem to the author to demonstrate that the "recipe 
book," so-called, should not be separate from the volume 
on "theory." Both theoretical and practical work should be 

vii 



viii PREFACE 

treated together, otherwise, while the subjects are naturally 
closely allied, the young student becomes confused and is not 
apt to apply the theory to the practice. In this book she 
cannot read a recipe without having her attention called to 
its function in nutrition. Furthermore, for convenience 
sake, the two should be combined in one book of moderate 
size. One hundred and fifty pages have been added to this 
edition with but little increase in bulk. 

I take pleasure in acknowledging the valuable assistance 
rendered by Dr. Mary D. Swartz Eose, Assistant Professor 
of Household Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University, 
'New York, in the preparation of this', edition ; also again to 
express my thanks for valuable material used in the book to 
Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards, Dr. W. Gihnan Thompson, Dr. Max 
Einhorn, Dr. Henry Koplik, Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Dr. Louis 
Starr, Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Dr. 
Elliott P. Joslin, Dr. Harry W. Goodall and Dr. Maynard 
Ladd. 

Alida Erances Patteb. 

New York, December, 1910. 

Extract Fhom Preface to Fifth Edition 
I have been particularly pleased to see "Practical Dietet- 
ics " accepted as a text-book by so many educational and other 
authorities. Thus it is to be found in all hospitals of the 
United States Army ; it has been recommended for use by all 
the various State Boards of Examiners of Nurses that have 
thus far been appointed ; it has been adopted by the military 
authorities in Canada for the Permanent Schools of Instruc- 
tion for the Militia, and it has also been added to the Author- 
ized Text Book list of the New York City and Boston Public 
Schools. 

New York, November, 1908. 



PEEFACB TO THE SECOND EDITION 

The very cordial reception of the first edition of Practical 
Dietetics has encouraged a second presentation. 

In the preparation of the second issue the original matter 
has been thoroughly revised, and important additions made. 

For valuable material I am indebted to the following 
physicians, hospitals and publishers, and gratefully acknowl- 
edge their assistance and kind permission accorded by them 
to quote their several diets. 

Dr. W. Gilman Thompson, Professor of Medicine in the 
Cornell University Medical College in New York City and 
visiting physician to the Presbyterian and Bellevue Hos- 
pitals : 

Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the 
New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, vis- 
iting physician to the German Dispensary: 

Dr. Henry Koplik, attending physician Mount Sinai Hos- 
pital, ex-president of the American Paediatric Society: 

Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Professor of Diseases of Children 
in the College of Physicians and Surgeons (Columbia Uni- 
versity), attending physician at the Babies' Hospital and 
Foundling Hospital, New York : 

Dr. Louis Starr, Consulting Paediatrist to the Maternity 
Hospital, Philadelphia; late Clinical Professor of Diseases 
of Children in the Hospital of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania : 

Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Professor of Clinical Medicine 
in Harvard University, visiting physician Massachusetts Gen- 
eral Hospital: 

Dr. Elbridge G. Cutler, Instructor in Theory and Prac- 
tice at Harvard Medical School, visiting physician Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital: 

ix 



X PREFACE 

Dr. Nathan Smith Davis, late Dean Northwestern TJni-, 
versity Medical School, Chicago: 

Bellevue Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Presby- 
terian Hospital, the Society of Lying-in Hospital (New- 
York), Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston: 

D. Appleton & Co., Blakiston & Co., William Wood & 
Co., and the publisher of the Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette: 

And sincere thanks are due Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards (In- 
structor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology) for aid and information, also for permission to 
quote from the Eumford Kitchen Leaflets. 

A. F. Pattee. 

•New York, July, 1904. 



PEEFACE TO THE FIEST EDITION 

As instructor of dietetics at various hospitals I have con- 
stantly felt the need of a simple manual and text-book for 
the use. of the nurse in the classroom. 

None could be found which fulfilled the requirements as 
to simplicity, brevity, and exactness, with reference to dietetic 
treatment in disease. 

This same need has been expressed by mothers and nurses 
outside of the hospital. 

In the following pages I have endeavored to meet this 
need by giving the result of knowledge gained during the 
past eight years of practical classwork experience in hospitals 
of different cities. 

The preparation of food is a science as well as an art, the 
chemistry of which is as precise as the chemistry of the 
laboratory. When we are willing to be as exact and care- 
ful in this work as we are in chemical experiments, our suc- 
cess will become a certainty. No other technical art can, with 
so little practical knowledge, go as far in simplifying that 
which is otherwise complicated and laborious, or do more 
toward accomplishing that which is a chief result of all 
science — adding to the comfort and happiness of the human 
race. 

A. F. Patteb. 

New York, July, 1903. 



zi 



INTEODUCTION 

In response to the many requests of Superintendents of 
Training Schools and Dietitians for an outline of the va- 
rious State Board Eequirements in Dietetics, I herewith 
quote with permission the following outlines of courses of 
study recommended by the American Hospital Association, 
New York, Minnesota, Illinois and Colorado State Boards 
of Examiners of Nurses. Answers to all questions are to 
be found in this book. Requirements of other States when 
issued will be added in each new edition of " Practical 
Dietetics." 

These outlines will prove of assistance to the Dietitian in 
arranging her course of study for the nurse, and will also 
prove suggestive to the nurse in preparing for her State 
Examinations. 

Through the kindness of the various State Boards of 
Examiners of Nurses I am also able to quote the examination 
questions of various States. 

Course op Study in Dietetics Aerakged by the American 
Hospital Association 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics: Classification of foods, care of foods, cooking of foods, 
serving of foods. 

First Year 
Tray setting and food serving; feeding the helpless and delirious 
patients; management of liquid diet. 

Second and Third Year 
Milk modification for infants according to diflferent formulse; also 
for fever patients and invalids. " It is recommended that continued 
and special attention be given throughout the second year, to 
dietetics, hygiene and the management of special diseases." 

xiii 



xh INTRODUCTION 

Second Yeak THeobetical Work 
Foods and food value; eight to fourteen hours. 

Third Year Practical Work 
Diet kitchen practice, including the modification of milk, one to 
two months. ' 

Course op Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Colorado State 

Board 

Dietetics 

FOOD — DEFINITION — CLASSIFICATION 

1. Organic — 

a. Proteids. 

b. Fats. 

c. Carbohydrates. 

2. Inorganic — 

a. Water. 

b. Salts. 

3. The uses of foods in disease. 

4. Practical work should be given in at least twelve (12) lessons 

and should include plain and fancy cooking for in- 
valids. 

5. Pupils should be familiar with the text of either Pattee, Farmer 

or equivalent. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Illinois State 

Board 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics 

Second Four Weeks 

Simple nourishments. Hospital diet lists. Times of feeding. 

Methods of feeding. Preparation of the following, to be served to 

patients : 

Milk, cold and hot. Malted milk, cold and hot. Lemonade. 
Beer. Gruel. Egg-nog. Orangeade. Root Beer. Soda-pop. Butter- 
milk. Fruit Juices. Broth. 

First Year 
Diet Cooking: 12 practical demonstrations, 2 hours each. 



INTRODUCTION xv 

Course op Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Minnesota Stath 

Board 

SECOiro YEAR 

Dietetics 
Theoretical Work 
(Anatomy and Physiology of digestion. Review subject as al- 
ready given in Anatomy, i. e. — mechanical and chemical processes, 
absorption, assimilation, metabolism, elimination.) 

Food — definition of, source, function, composition, classification 
and food adjuncts. 

Water — minerals, fats and oils, carbohydrates and proteids, each 
studied as to their composition, food value, digestion and compara- 
tive values. 

General principles to be observed in cooking of starcli, meat, eggs, 
poultry, game, fish, cereals and vegetables. 

Practical Work 

Dietetics — 24 two-hour lessons — individual class work under 
dietitian. (15 minutes to theory and remainder of period to prac- 
tical work.) 

Practical work to include the proper methods of preparing and 
serving: Coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate, beef juice, beef broth, chicken 
broth, oyster broth, egg-nog, albumin, milk. Cream soups (tomato, 
corn, celery, pea). Toast, crofltons, pulled bread. Bread — graham, 
wheat, whole wheat, gluten, nut. Light desserts — cornstarch, gela- 
tin, ices, ice cream, baked apples. Eggs — soft-boiled, poached, 
creamed, custard, omelet. Beefsteak, lamb chops, roast beef, roast 
lamb, bacon, sweetbreads, scraped beef. Chicken and game. Baked 
and broiled whitefish, halibut, bass, brook trout, oysters. Rice, oat- 
meal, cream of wheat, rolled oats. Potatoes — baked, boiled, 
creamed, escalloped and stuffed. Fruits — stewed and fresh. Sal- 
ads — French salad dressing, cooked salad dressing, maydnnaise. 
Vegetables. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the New York State 

Board 

PRELIMINARY TERM 
Dietetics, 14 hours 



Water: source, function, varieties of drinking water, source of 
disease. 

Beverages: tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate; history and growth of 
plants; composition, nutritive value; physiological effects. 



xvi INTRODUCTION 

Constituents of milk: care and preservation; bacteria in milk; ef- 
fects of heat on milk; adulteration — digestibility; value of skimmed 
milk; whey, buttermilk, cheese. 

Infant feeding: comparison of human and cow's milk; modifica- 
tion of milk; certified milk; capacity of infant's stomach; symp- 
toms considered in regulating the feeding of infants. 

Practical 

Care of dining-room, gas range, cooking utensils, ice box and con- 
tents. 

Preparation of trays; how to make them attractive; how to serve; 
quantity, quality and temperature of food; how to feed helpless 
patients. 

Beverages: water, tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, wines, fruit juices, 
malted milk, prepared foods. 

Milk: pasteurizing, sterilizing, modification, kumyss, buttermilk 
(artificial) and whey. 

Eggs in various forms as liquid diet; gruels. 

Milk and eggs as food; custards; junket; white sauce; cottage 
cheese. 

INTERMEDIATE TEEM, FIRST HALF 

Dietetics, 10 two-hour lessons (under dietitian) 

Theoretical 

Digestion and absorption: review subject of digestion as already 
given in anatomy, 1. e., mechanical and chemical processes, absorp- 
tion, assimilation, metabolism, elimination of waste. 

Food: source, function, food adjuncts, definition of food, compo- 
sition, classification. 

Mineral matter: source and function. 

Carbohydrates: why so called, source, function, nutritive value. 

General principle in cooking cereals, vegetables, fruits, nuts and 
sugars. 

Eggs: composition; test for freshness; digestibility; nutritive val- 
ues; effects of temperature; advantages and disadvantages in use. 

Meat: composition; nutritive value; effect of hot and cold water; 
comparative value of tea and broth; raw compared with cooked; 
organs used as food; gelatin. 

Poultry: game. 

Fi^h: classes; composition; signs of freshness; care of fish; nutri- 
tive value; digestibility. 

Mollusks: crustaceans. 

Fats and oils: source, animal and vegetable; function; digestibil- 
ity; comparative value as fuel food. 



INTRODUCTION xvii 

Praciioal 

Toast; cereals; cornstarch; macaroni; rice; sandwiches. 

Starchy vegetables, legumes. 

Green vegetables, salads, dressings ( cream and oily ) . 

Fruit, fresh and cooked; fruit puddings. 

Soups, stock and creamy; broths. 

Broiled meats, giving cuts. 

Chicken and game. 

Fish, shell and scaly. 

Frozen desserts; sponge cake; wafers. 

If the pupils are not assigned to a terra of service in the diet 
kitchen, practice in preparing and serving full meals should be given 
in connection with this series of lessons. 

SENIOR TERM. 
Dietetics 
Theory, at least 6 hours 
Diet in childhood. 
Diet in disease. 
Food values. 

Comparison of animal, vegetable and mixed diets. 
Calculating dietaries. 
Planning menus. 

Practical 
During the term the nurse in charge of wards should make prac- 
tical application of the theory of dietetics and study food ordered 
for patients under her care, in connection with the cases for which 
it is 9rdered. 

State Examinatiosj Questions in dietetics 

COLORADO 
1909 

1. Mention one good nutritive enema. 

2. What is included under the head of liquid diet? 

3. How do you make albumin water? ^ 

4. What is the appearance of healthy beef; chickeh; fish? 

.5. How would you feed a typhoid patient the, first week he gets 
solid food? 

6. Describe all the correct methods you know of preparing food 
for the sick. 

7. What is important in cooking starchy foods? 

8. What foods contain the most albumin? 

9. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 



xviii INTRODUCTION 

10. Have you had any special training in dietetics? Of what did 
it consist? Name one book on dietetics. Do you own a book on 
dietetics ? 

CONNECTICUT 

Dietetics and Hygiene 

June, 1909 

1. Name the different classes into which food may be divided. 

2. Name two animal and two vegetable foods which contain fat. 

3. Prepare a day's menu for a patient, excluding starchy foods 
aa far as possible, while giving a variety. 

4. What useful function may be perfprmed by the indigestible 
parts of vegetables? 

5. Show why a mixed diet is advisable. 

6. Give one method of predigesting milk. 

7. Prepare a day's menu of at least six meals for a patient with 
mild fever, excluding milk, but giving as much variety as per- 
missible in a fluid diet. 

8. What are sweetbreads, and how would you prepare and serve 
them? 

9. Why is a thorough cooking especially important in cereal foods 
and not in flesh foods? 

10. Write the rules for preparing three desserts you would use 
in feeding a typhoid fever patient during convalescence. 

11. Give a list of fruits you would recommend for their laxative 
effect. 

January, 1909 

1. Give a brief description of the care of glass drinking tubes 
used by typhoid patients. 

2. Give recipe for (1) partial peptonisation of milk; (2) junket. 

3. Mention the foods allowed according to the following classifi- 
cation: (l)Liquid; (2) Soft; (3) Light. 

4. How would you render the following sterile: (1) Woolen 
blankets; (2) Cotton sheets; (3) Rubber catheters; (4) Your 
hands? 

5. In making up modification of milk give in detail from the 
time you receive the milk until you give it to the infant the pre- 
cautions you would take to keep certified milk pure. 

6. Tell what you know of either tea or coffee, its production, 
preparation, use and abuse. 

7. What cuts of beef would you select for the following purposes : 
(1) Beef juice; (2) Eoast beef; (3) A tender steak? 

8. What action has prolonged cooking on (1) starch grains; (2) 
albumin? 



INTRODUCTION xix 

9. What different methods would you employ in cooking chicken 
for (1) broths; (2) fricassee? Why? 

10. Give minute details of your care of the linen used on the 
bed of a scarlet fever patient. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
1908 

1. Name three food-stuflfs rich in albumin in the order of their 
importance. 

2. Describe process of digestion and absorption of albuminoids. 

3. What is the object of cooking vegetables and of cooking 
meats ? 

4. Give frequency of feeding patient on liquid diet and on plain 
diet; why the difference? 

5. Name any two diseased conditions which may be brought 
about by dietetic error; state how? 

1909 

1. Name the different classes of food-stuffs and give an example 
of each. 

2. What are the chief ingredients in fruits? 

3. Describe the action of the gastric juice on food. 

4. State the length of time required to cook properly the fol- 
lowing cereals: rolled oats, rice, and eornmeal mush. 

5. Give the two complete food products furnished by the animal 
kingdom. 

NEW YORK 
1907 

1. What effect has cooking on meat? 

2. Give recipe for veal broth made from a half pound of veal. 

3. State the length of time required to cook properly the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, Irish oatmeal, steamed rice, eornmeal mush. 

4. How would you make a flour ball? 

5. Give recipe for making an oyster stew containing a pint of 
oysters. 

6. How would you determine whether or not an egg is fresh? 

7. Which is more quickly digested, a raw egg or a soft-boiled 
egg? Why? 

8. Give a recipe for egg sandwich. 

9. Give the general rules for making custards. 

10. How would you bake a banana and prepare it for a patient? 



XX INTRODUCTION 

1908 

1. What are the uses of water in the body? 

2. Name three vegetable acids. 

3. Give three examples of foods in which starch is found. 

4. Of what value is sugar as food? 

5. Give th/ree examples of food containing fat. 

6. What hygienic effect has heat on milk? 

7. How should an egg be boiled? How should it be served to 
an invalid? 

8. How would you make a raw beef sandwich? 

9. Why is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked ? 

10. Give recipe for lemon jelly. 

11. Outline a breakfast for a convalescent man. 

12. Outline a dinner for a convalescent woman. 

13. Give recipe for creamy rice pudding. 

14. Of what value are fruits as food? 

15. What are the requirements of food for a fever patient in 
order that proper nourishment may be obtained? 

1909 

1. What is meant by predigested food? 

2. What effect on the system has hot water when taken in- 
ternally? 

3. What effect has sterilization on milk? 

4. What is condensed milk? State its value as a food. 

5. How is limewater made? 

6. What is farinaceous diet? 

7. What are the most important food products derived from the 
vegetable kingdom? 

8. State the effect of coffee on the system? 

9. What are concentrated foods? State their chief use. 

10. State the food value of green vegetables. 

1 1. What are the diet requirements in ansemia ? 

12. Mention some factors, apart from proper diet, that specially 
affect the digestion. 

13. Name some diseases that may be caused by the following er- 
rors in diet: (a) insufficient food; (b) overeating; (c) lack of fresh 
food; (d) improperly balanced diet. 

14. What are the reasons for limiting the diet of a young child 
to certain foods? 

15. What changes in diet should be made in advanced years? 
Why? 



INTRODUCTION xxi 

NORTH CAROLINA 

1908 

1. In what foods are ptomaine poisoning most likely to be found? 
How may this be avoided? 

2. What can you say of the effect of long or second cooking of 
albuminous foods? State whether or not this increases their di- 
gestibility. 

3. Give a list of the easily-digested meats, (a) Describe method 
of cooking one of these, (b) Name those you would not give an 
invalid, giving reasons. 

4. Give a list of foods you have been accustomed to giving con- 
valescents from typhoid fever, between the liquid and full diet 
period. 

5. What foods have you given, your obstetrical cases during the 
first two weeks? 

6. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? 

7. Name such foods as you would give a healthy child from 12 
to 18 months of age. 

8. What vegetables supply about the same elements for the sys- 
tem as meats? 

9. What can you say of the long and second cooking of starchy 
foods ? 

10. Name such vegetables and fruits as you would give an in- 
valid. State reasons. 

1909 

1. Give theory of cooking starches and tell where and by what 
digested. 

2. Name the cereals that require long cooking and give approxi- 
mate time. 

3. Why do we toast bread? 

4. What disease is usually given a carbohydrate-free diet? 

5. Name the heat and energy-giving foods. 

6. What do you consider an ideal diet? 

7. What should be the characteristics of an invalid's diet? 

8. What are some of the advantages of vegetables and fruits in 
our own diet? 

9. Why .is cow's milk more likely to disagree with infants dur- 
ing the summer than in cold weather? 

10. Up to the present have we been benefited by the pure food 
laws? 

11. Which contains more nourishment, fji of beef juice or fji 
of beef tea? 



xxii INTRODUCTION 

12. Give a list of tissue-building foods. 

13. What should be the diet of a ease of acute nephritis? B. 
A case of eclampsia preceding or following labor? 

14. Give several ways in which milk and eggs may be prepared 
and flavored to give variety to liquid diet. 

15. State some of the advantages and disadvantages of milk, as 
(I food for invalids. 

WASHINGTON 

1909 

1. State the length of time required to properly cook the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, rice, cornmeal mush. 

2. Of what value are fruits in digestion? 

3. How should an egg be boiled? How should it be served to 
an invalid^ 

4. How would you make a raw beef sandwich? 

5. What are the requirements of food for a fever patient in order 
that the proper nourishment may be obtained? 

6. Why is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked? 

7. What is meant by predigested food? 

8. How would you prepare extract of beef from the raw beef? 

9. Briefly outline a diet for diabetics. 

10. Would you boil cocoa? Give reasons for your answer. 

1910 

1. How would you prepare a beefsteak? Give reasons for method 
employed. 

2. Why is the saliva an important factor in the digestive 
process ? 

3. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 

4. Name one good nutritive enema. 

5. What is important in cooking starchy foods? 

6. What would you include in a soft diet for an invalid? 

7. Briefly outline a diet for a patient suffering from pulmonary 
tuberculosis. 

8. What are the diet requirements in a case of ansemia? 

9. What class of foods should be excluded from a rheumatic diet 
and why? 

10. How do you prepare an egg omelet? Coffee? Cocoa? Tea? 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Intboduction xiii 

The American Hospital Association — Colorado — 
Illinois — Minnesota — New York State Board Ee- 
quirejnents in Dietetics. 

PAET I 

PEINCIPLES OF N^UTEITION AND FOOD 
PEEPAEATION 

CHAPTER 

I Food . . . . 3 

General Object — Definition — Food Accessories (or 
Food Adjuncts) — Source — Composition of the Body 

— Composition of Food — Classification of Food — 
Nitrogenous, Protein and Extractives — Non-Nitro- 
genous, Carbohydrates (Starch and Sugar), Fats — 
Water — Mineral Matter. Food Accessories — Condi- 
tions for Perfect Nutrition. 

II Nutrition ... . 36 

Digestion : — Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — 
Mineral Matter — Water. EesumS of Digestion — 
Factors Determining Rate of Digestion. Absorption : 

— Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — Mineral Matter 

— Water. Metabousm : — Protein — Fats — Carbo- 
hydrates. Excretion. 

III Food Values . . ... ... . . 54 

The Balance of Energy and Nitrogen Equilibrium, 
The Energy Value of Food — Energy Requirements of 
the Body — Tables Showing the Nutritive Value of 
Food. 

IV Feeding the Sick . . .... 72 

General Rules — Physicians' Directions — Feeding 
xxiii 



xxiv CONTENTS 

CHAFTEE PAGE 

in Acute Disease — Evidences of Digestion — The Ap- 
petite — Punctuality in Serving — Quality and Quan- 
tity of Food — Temperature of Food — Details in 
Feeding — Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth — Time 
and Position for Feeding — Sleep and Feeding — 
Feeding the Helpless Patient — Feeding the Uncon- 
scious Patient — Forced Feeding — Nasal Feeding — 
Use of the Stomach Tube — Eectal Feeding — Use of 
Alcohol in the Sickroom — Keeping Ice in the Sick- 
room — Disinfecting Utensils. 

V The Teay 85 

Attractive Arrangement of a Tray. How to Serve 
(General Rules). 

VI Methods of Cooking and Cake of Food .... 88 
Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Cooked Food 

— Success in Cooking — Objective Points in Cooking 

— Eif eet of Heat — Principles Governing the Choice 
of a Method of Cooking Any Food — Principal Cook- 
ing Processes — The Object of each Cooking Process — 
Cooking Utensils — Blending Ingredients — Method 
of Working — Ice Box and Contents — Care of Food 

— Preserving Foods — Concentration — Predigestion 
of Food — Adulteration of Food. 

VII Measures and Weights 98 

Table of Measures and Weights — Apothecaries 
Weight — Apothecaries Measure — Approximate Meas- 
ures — Metric System — Measures of Volume — Meas- 
ure of Weight — Table of Equivalents — Table for Pre- 
paring Percentage Solution — Thermometry. 

PAET II 

PEACTICAL APPLICATION OF PEIjSTCIPLES 
OP NUTEITION" 

EECIPES 

VIII Bemieages 109 

Acid Beverages HO 

Eecipes \\q 



CONTENTS XXV 

CHAPTEB PAGE 

Albuminous Beverages 118 

Recipes 118 

Starchy Beverages 124 

Recipes 124 

Miscellaneous Beverages . . 127 

Tea 127 

Recipes . 131 

Coffee ... 128 

Recipes . 131 

Chocolate ... . ... 129 

Recipes 134 

Cocoa . 129 

Recipes ... . . 133 

Special Non-Nutritive Beverages . . 136 

Recipes . 136 

IX Animal Foods . . 138 

Meat 140 

Recipes ... 149 

Poultry and Game . 152 

Recipes . . 153 

Fish ... . 159 

Recipes 162 

Fish Sauces ... 165 

Recipes 165 

Shell Fish •....-... 166 

Oysters . 166 

Recipes . . 169 

Clams . . 168 

Recipes .... 172 

Eggs .175 

Recipes .... .... ... 179 

Milk and Milk Products ... 184 

■ Recipes 193 

Sweetbreads 200 

Recipes 201 

Gelatin 203 

Recipes 204 

Beef Preparations 212 

Beef Juice 212 

Recipes 214 



xxvi CONTENTS 

CHAPTEB PAGE 

Beef Tea 213 

Eecipes 215 

Raw Beef 214 

Eecipes ' . . .217 

Meat Broths 217 

Recipes . 219 

Meat Jellies 217 

Recipes 221 

Soups . 223 

Recipes 223 

Soup Accompaniments . 229 

Recipes ... 229 

X Vegetable ob Plant Foods . 231 

Cereals 233 

Gruels 236 

Recipes . .238 

Breakfast Foods 235 

Recipes 242 

Starchy Jellies 244 

Recipes 244 

Macaroni 245 

Recipes 245 

Bread . 247 

Recipes ... 250 

Toast . V . .... . .255 

Recipes . . . 256 

Sandwiches 258 

Recipes . ... . 259 

Crackers and Wafers . 260 

Recipes ... . . 260 

Vegetables . ... .261 

Recipes . 265 

Vegetable Sauces . . 271 

Recipes . . . 271 

Salads . . . 272 

Recipes 274 

Salad Dressings 272 

Recipes 273 



CONTENTS 



XXVll 



CHAPTEE 



Fruits 

Recipes 

Nuts 

Fungi and Algae 

XI NUTEITIOUS Dessekts . . . . 

Hot and Cold Desserts 

Soft Custards . ... 

Recipes 

Baked Custards . 

Recipes .... ... 

Whips and Souffles 

Recipes . . 

Junket 

Recipes . . . . 

Cornstarch Pudding or Blanc Mange 

Recipes ... ... 

Rice Puddings 

Recipes . 
Tapioca 

Recipes . 
Bread Puddings 

Recipes . 
Cracker Puddings 

Recipes . 
Pudding Sauces 

Recipes . 
Frozen Desserts . 
Ice Cream . 

Recipes . 
Sherbet 

Recipes . 
Ices 

Recipes . 



XII Cake 



Recipes 



PAGE 

276 
. 279 
. 283 

. 284 

. 286 

. 286 

287 

. 287 

. 288 

. 288 

290 

. 291 

.293 

293 

295 

. 295 

. 297 

. 297 

300 

300 

. 302 

302 

304 

. 304 

305 

305 

306 

. 306 

307 

. 306 

312 

306 

313 

. 317 
. 318 



xxviii CONTENTS 

PAET III 

HOSPITAL DIETAEIES — DIET IN DISEASE 

— DIET IK SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XIII Hospital Dietaries . . ... 323 

General Types of Diet Used in Hospitals : — ■ 
Liquid or Fluid Foods — Soft or Semi-Solid Food — 
Solid Food. 

Typical Diets from Vabious Hospitals -. — Light 
Diet or Convalescent Diet ■=— Typical Light Diet 

— Milk Diet — Fluid Diet — Soft Diet — Soft Solids 

— Liquid or Farinaceous — Farinaceous Diet — Ni- 
trogenous Diet — Nutrient Diet — Oxaluric Diet — 
Strict Sugar-free Diet — Fat-free Diet — Salt-free 
Diet — Test Diet — Fish Diet — Broth Diet — Re- 
stricted Diet — Extra Diet — Dietary of the Bellevue 
Hospital, New York, 1910 — Dietary of the Presby- 
terian Hospital, New York, 1910. 

DIET IN DISEASE 

XIV Diet in Fevers and Infectious Diseases .... 331 

Diet in Fever in General — Diet in Convales- 
cence from Fever — Typhoid Fever — Starvation 
Treatment of Typhoid — Liquid Diet in Typhoid — 
Liberal or Generous Diet — Liquid Diet in Typhoid 

— (1) Fluid Diet in Typhoid — (2) Fluid Diet in 
Typhoid — Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid — 
Diet in Typhoid after Two Days of Normal Tempera- 
ture — Diet in Typhoid after Two Weeks of Normal 
Temperature — Typhoid Delicacies — Typhoid Extra 
Diet — Liberal Diet in Typhoid (Frederick C. Shut- 
tuck, M.D. ) — Tonsilitis and Quinsy — Diphtheria 

— Pneumonia — Broncho-Pneumonia — Mumps — 
Whooping Cough — Diet in Tuberculosis, Especially 
Pulmonary Consumption. 

XV Diet in Disorders of Nutrition 355 

Diet in Diabetes — Diabetic Diet of Bellevue Hospi- 
tal — Diabetic Diet of Presbyterian Hospital — Dia- 



CONTENTS 



XXIX 



betie Diet of Massachusetts General Hospital — Strict 
Sugar-free Diabetic Diet — Chronic Diabetes Diet — 
Substitutes for Starch and Sugar — A Diabetic Chart 
(Elliott P. Joslin, M.D.) — Menus for the Diabetic 

— Diet in Lithemia or Excess of Uric Acid — Acute 
Gout — Chronic Gout — Acute Rheumatism — Chronic 
Rheumatism — Diet in Obesity. 

XVI Diet in the Diseases of the Stomach 373 

Acute Gastritis — Chronic Gastritis — Ulcer of the 
Stomach — Outline of Diet in Gastric Ulcer (Max 
Einhorn, M.D. ) — Gastric Ulcer Diet — Dr. Hewes's 
Diet, The Lenhartz Diet — The Lenhartz Diet Sheet. 

XVII Diet in Intestinal Diseases .381 

Dyspepsia — Constipation — Diarrhoea — Dysen? 
tery — Diet for Acute Colitis (Dysentery) — Chronic 
Dysentery — Enteric Diet — Special Enteric Diet — 
Liquid Enteric Diet — Appendicitis. 

XVIII Diet in Disease of the Genito-Ubinaey System . . 390 
Acute Bright's Disease — Chronic Bright's Disease 

— Nephritic Diet — Acute Nephritis, Uric Acid 
Gravel — Convulsion in Bright's Disease — Albumi- 
nuria. 

XIX Diet in Misceixaneous Affections 395 

Nervous Disorders — Functional Disorders of the 
Liver (Biliousness) — Skin Diseases — Heart Dis- 
ease — Dietetic Management of Surgical Cases — 
_ Diet after Laparotomy, Ovariotomy, etc. 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 
XX Motherhood . ... . .... 401 

Diet in Pregnancy — Vomiting of Pregnancy — 
(Vomiting of Seasickness) — Diet for the Mother 
after Labor — Diet for a Nursing Mother or Wet 
Nurse. 



XXX 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAGE 

XXI Infant Feeding .... ... ... 406 

General Considerations — Breast Feeding — The 
Wet Nurse — Composition of Mother's Milk — The 
Hygiene of Natural Feeding — Capacity of Babies' 
Stomachs — Schedule for Nursing — Weaning — Arti- 
ficial or Bottle Feeding — > Difference Between Human 
and Cow's Milk — General Principles of Milk Modi- 
fications — What Dilution to Use — The Quantity to 
Feed — Laboratory Milk — Home Modification — The 
Nursing Battle — Formulse for Infant Feeding — Top 
Milk Method (L. Emmett Holt, M.D.) Card for Per- 
centage Feeding of Infants (Maynard Ladd, M.D.) 

— Formulse for Preparing Infant Food from Ster- 
ilized Sugar of Milk — Scheme for Feeding Babies 
(Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City) 

— Peptogenic Milk Powder, Modifies Cow's Milk. 

XXII The Feeding of Young Childben .... 434 

General Rules for Feeding Young Children — Table 
of Comparison, Food Required by Child and Man — 
Table showing Increase of Calories Required for a 
Growing Child — ^Dietaries for Young Children 
(Louis Starr, M.D.) — General Principles of Feeding 
Sick Children. 

xxiii dret foe the adolescent dlet for the sedentary 

— Diet for the Aged . . . 442 

Index to Recipes . . 447 

General Index 465 



PAET I 

PEINCIPLES OP NUTEITION AND FOOD 
PEEPAEATIONS 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

CHAPTEE I 
FOOD: ITS OBJECT 

Maintenance of Life and Energy 

There are few subjects deserving of more careful consid- 
eration than that of food; its composition, preparation, and 
effect upon the human system ; together with the process of its 
conversion into complex animal tissue, as brain or muscle, 
blood or bone. 

The true science of feeding should be thoroughly studied, 
that we may understand what properties enter into food; 
what elements the system demands in order to build or re- 
pair; by what means the necessary substances are best sup- 
plied, and how to prepare them that the body may maintain 
its efficiency; so that in case of illness, the least possible de- 
mands upon the digestive and assimilative functions may be 
made. 

Apart from the labor of every-day life in which brain and 
muscle engage, an immense amount of, work is performed in 
the mere act of keeping alive. Nowhere in nature is work 
performed without a supply of energy, and also some wear 
and tear of the machine which does the work. This asser- 
tion is as true of the human body as of the locomotive, and 
just as the machine — whatever it may be — requires to-be 
supplied with the conditions necessary for the production of 
force, so the living body similarly demands a supply of, ma- 
terial from which its energy — the power of doing the work — 
can be taken. As the locomotive obtains the necessary con- 

3 



4 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ditions from the fuel and water (and air) which it consumes, 
so the living body derives its energy from the food, water 
and air upon which it subsists. 

Definition of Food. Foods are substances which when 
taken into the body supply the necessary elements for pro- 
moting its growth and repairing its waste ; and furnish it with 
material from which to produce heat and internal or external 
work. Substances that are unable to assist in either of these 
ways are called food accessories or food adjuncts. 
■ Food Accessories or Food Adjuncts. These are substances 
which, although unable to fulfill the definition of foods, find 
an extensive use in the dietary, for a variety of reasons. 
They give flavor to food, increase the appetite, stimulate 
secretion, and thus aid the digestive functions. They com- 
prise two classes, viz., condiments and beverages. 

Source of Food. Food occurs in the mineral, plant and 
animal kingdoms. It occurs in all physical forms of matter 
— gases, liquids and solids. Gases are mentioned because 
oxygen is a true food and metabolized to a certain degree, 
being always present in the blood and tissues in loose chem- 
ical combination. 

Composition of the Body. The human body contains many 
chemical elements in varying amounts. 

Nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen are the four pres- 
ent in largest proportion; iron, phosphorus, calcium, mag- 
nesium, potassium, sodium, sulphur, chlorin, iodin, also have 
important ofiBces to perform. 

Composition of Food. Foods must contain the same ele- 
ments found in the body; thus it is that they are able to 
build and maintain the body structure. But no " one food " 
contains all these elements in proper proportions for all per- 
sons ; therefore, it is by combinations of the various food 
stuffs that we produce a suitable diet. These elements must 
further be supplied in forms which the body, can use. It 
cannot utilize carbon in the form of coal, for example, but 
must have it combined in special ways with hydrogen and 
oxygen. These combinations of elements or " Food Com- 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 5 

pounds " found in nature (sometimes called " alimentary " 
or "food principles" and "food stuffs"), are usually classi- 
■fied as proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter (or salts) 
and water. 

Food, as it is taken into the body still differs in composi- 
tion from the material utilized by the tissues in growth, 
repair of waste, and production of energy in the form of work 
or heat. It must be finally prepared for the use of the body 
by the processes involved in Digestion. 

CIASSIEICATION OF POOD 

Foods may be classified in various ways: 

a. According to Source, as animal, vegetable, and mineral 
(including oxygen for combustion). 

b. According to Chemical Composition, as organic and in- 
organic, the organic foods being further subdivided into ni- 
trogenous and non-nitrogenous substances. 

c. According to Function, as tissue-fofmers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. 

Classification according to Chemical Composition 
Nitrogenous — Proteins 



Organic 



- ("Sugars 

Carbohydrates i 
ISTon-nitrogenous^ I Starches 

[Fats 

{Mineral Matter 
Water 
Classification according to Function 
r Proteins 
Tissue-formers or Body-builders \ Mineral Matter 

LWater 

{Carbohydrates 
Fats 
ProteiAS 



6 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

T> 1 J. J! -D J T) r Mineral Matter 

liegulators of Body Processes T w f 

Important Sources of Proteins: 

Milk, eggs, meat, fish, cheese, beans, peas, lentils, some nuts 
and cereals. 
Important Sources -of Fats: 

Olive oil, butter, cream, bacon and other fat meat, and nuts. 

Important Sources of Carbohydrates: 

Cereals, and cereal products ; sago, tapioca ; starchy veg- 
etables, such as potatoes ; sugar, honey, sweet dried fruits. 
Important Sources of Mineral Matter: 

a. Available in organic form: 

IsTitrogen, — supplied by protein. 

Phosphorus, — in milk and cream, eggs (especially 

the yolk), meat, whole vcheat, oatmeal, dried peas 

and beans. 
Iron, — in eggs (especially the yolk), meat, whole 

wheat, oatmeal, dried and fresh peas and beans, 

spinach, raisins and prunes. 

b. Available in organic or inorganic form : 

Calcium, in milk, dried beans and peas, oranges, 
spinach, turnips; other fresh fruits and vegetables, 
and whole grains. 

Magnesium, potassium, iodin, etc. — likely to be 
adequately supplied if the other ash constituents 
are provided for. The addition of sodium chloride 
(common salt) as a condiment usually supplies a 
surplus of sodium and ehlorin. 

Special Functions of each Food Principle: 

Proteins — Supply energy, nitrogen, sulphur, and some- 
times phosphorus. 

Fats — Supply energy in the most concentrated form. 

Carbohydrates — Supply energy in the form most econom- 
ical to the body. 

Mineral Matter — Supplies building material, except nitro- 
gen and sulphur, and helps to regulate body processes. 



CONDITIONS FOR PERFECT NUTRITION 7 

"Water — Supplies building material (forming 60 per cent, 
of the body), and helps to regulate body processes. 

CONDITIONS rOR PERFECT NUTRITION 

Tor the proper support of the human system, a combina- 
tion of nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous foods is essential, 
■with water to dissolve them and oxygen to burn them. Al- 
though air is not classified as a food it is essential to effect 
the chemical changes needful for assimilation. " About two 
thousand cubic feet of air need to pass through the lungs of 
an adult daily in order to furnish oxygen in sufiBcient quan- 
tity. If there is lack in this most important food-stuff (and 
nothing else can take its place), starvation as truly results 
as if other food were withheld, for the changes required for 
nutrition cannot take place, and furthermore incomplete de- 
composition occurs, which may result in more or less poison- 
ous products. 

"Fresh air — air with its quota of oxygen — is, then, a 
prime requirement in nutrition." — Ellen H. Eichards. 

A Perfect. Food. 1. " A perfect food must contain all the 
nutritive elements of the body : Proteins, carbohydrates, fats, 
minerals, and water. 

2. It must contain these in their proper proportions. 

3. It must contain in a moderate compass the total amount 
required daily. 

4. The nutritive elements must be capable of easy absorp- 
tion, and yet leave a certain bulk of unabsorbed matter to 
act as intestinal ballast. It must be obtainable at a mod- 
erate cost." — Hutchinson. 

A Mixed Diet therefore is necessary, as no "one food" 
fulfills all the requirements of a "perfect food." A mixed 
diet must be taken whereby one food may be used to sup- 
plement what is lacking in another. The foods best for 
health are those best fitted to the needs of the individual. 
The cheapest food is that which furnishes the largest amount 
of nutriment at the least cost. The best food is that which 
is both healthful and cheapest. 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 



Nitrogenous substances are those which contain nitrogen, 
an element which is essential to the life of every cell. 

Classification. In older classifications, the term Protein 
is used to include all food substances containing nitrogen, 
this class being further subdivided into (1) Proteids, those 
proteins which can alone maintain the nitrogen equilibrium 
of the body; (2) Albuminoids or Oelatinoids, those which 
contain nitrogen in a form which can replace other proteins 
only to a limited extent; (3) Extractives, containing nitro- 
gen in a form unable to make good the body loss of nitrogen. 
These extractives are properly food accessories. 

Proteins are now defined as compounds of carbon, hydrogen, 
oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and sometimes phosphorus, which 
contain nitrogen in a form which the body can use. They are 
variously classified, but a simple division is one into (1) 
Simple Proteins, (2) Compound Proteins, and (3) Albumi- 
noids. Examples of simple proteins are albumins, globulins, 
and certain alcohol-soluble proteins found in cereals, as the 
gliadin of wheat ; of compound proteins, the nucleo-protein of 
organs consisting chiefly of cells, as pancreas or sweetbread, 
and the haemoglobin of the blood; of albuminoids, the fa- 
miliar product, gelatin, formed from the collagen of connec- 
tive tissue : 



Proteins 



Simple 



Albumins, e. g 

Globulins, e. g 

Alcohol-soluble proteins e. g. 



'White of egg. 
Casein of milk. 
Myosin of muscle. 
Fibrin of blood. 
Gluten of wheat. 
^Legumin of legumes. 

In grains. 
fGIiadin of wheat. 



LZein of maize. 

{Nucleo-protein, o. g. in liver and sweetbread. 
Hsemoglobin of blood. 
Albuminoid Collagen of connective tissue. 



Compound 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 9 

Source. The proteins of the diet are derived both from the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms. The principal animal pro- 
teins are obtained from meats, fish, eggs, and milk. Meat 
and fish proteins are derived principally from the muscles; 
egg proteins from both the white and yolk; milk proteins 
chiefly from the casein, which forms the main constituent of 
cheese and curds. Animal foods are much richer in protein 
than plant foods. The only substances of vegetable origin 
which can compare with animal nutrients in this respect are 
the legumes (peas, beans, lentils, peanuts, etc.), and certain 
nuts, such as almonds, pine nuts, cocoa beans (the source of 
cocoa and chocolate). The entire grain of some cereals pos- 
sesses a high percentage of protein; this is particularly true 
of so-called hard wheat, and in lesser degree of oats, Indian 
corn, rye, and barley. As a rule, flour and meal are about 
half as rich in protein as the dried grains from which they 
are prepared, though oatmeal and Indian meal lose but lit- 
tle through milling. 

Animal foods are usually digested with ease, and require 
less cooking and less mastication to insure good utilization; 
in the form of meat, they are liked because of their high 
flavor and stimulating properties. In vegetable foods, on 
account of the presence of cellulose, some of the protein is 
likely to escape digestion and absorption. For the invalid 
or convalescent, certain animal foods are preferred as a 
source of protein, as being more concentrated, and easier of 
digestion. Of ordinary vegetable food rich in protein, bread, 
either stale and dry, or thoroughly toasted, is perhaps the 
most suitable for invalids. Starchy roots and tubers (as 
potatoes), and green vegetables and fruits, though valuable 
for other dietetic reasons, are very poor in protein. 

Animal Proteins. The albumins in the ordinary diet are 
derived chiefly from animal foods. The white of egg is a 
very pure form of this compound, and eggs constitute one 
of the best sources of nitrogen in a compact and assimilable 
form, especially convenient as they are readily taken raw. 

Casein, the chief protein of. milk, represents the main 



10 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

source of this food element for infants and the sick. One 
quart of milk contains as much protein as six ounces of lean 
beeksteak, and is more valuable because of its rich supply 
of mineral matter, to say nothing of the fat and carbohydrate 
present. 

Myosin is the typical protein in muscle tissue. . After death 
it changes to a form called syntonin. 

Fibrin and Serum Albumin, found in blood, occur to a 
slight extent along with myosin in meat. 

The only albuminoid which requires consideration here is 
collagen, a protein found in all connective tissues, including 
the modified forms, such as cartilage and bone. This sub- 
stance is changed by boiling to gelatin. This is further al- 
tered by the gastric juice to gelatoses and gelatin-peptones, 
and finally absorbed, but it lacks certain elements found in 
albumins and other proteins, and consequently cannot be re- 
lied upon exclusively as a source of nitrogen for the body. 
It can replace about two-thirds of the ordinary protein re- 
quirement. 

Vegetable Proteins. These are chiefly globulins. The 
main representatives of the albumins in vegetable food are 
gluten of wheat and legumin of the legumes. A number of 
alcohol-soluble proteins occur, such as gliadin in wheat and 
zein in Indian corn. Vegetables contain a large number of 
nitrogenous substances which are not proteins. Thus while 
mushrooms contain much nitrogen, little of the latter is in a 
form which can be absorbed. 

Function of Proteins. Proteins are both body-builders and 
energy-producers, but are little utilized as fuel when carbo- 
hydrates and fats are well represented in the diet. As a fuel, 
they tend to burn up rapidly, and hence are not economical, 
and since in health only a small proportion of nitrogen is 
used from day to day, the part not needed being promptly 
excreted, it is not advantageous to have the diet largely com- 
posed of this food principle. During the periods of rapid 
growth, in the prenatal, infantile and adolescent states, when 
the body is forming new tissue at an unusual rate, there must 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 11 

be a liberal nitrogen supply. This is also true in conva- 
lescence from wasting disease, and sometimes after excessive 
physical exertion, when the muscle tissue is actually increas- 
ing. In health, when fats and carbohydrates are liberally 
provided, so that the protein is not required as fuel, a com- 
paratively small amount is needed for repair of tissue. This 
is especially true in old age. 

Nitrogenous Extractives. Substances found in muscle 
juice, consisting chiefly of ereatin, creatinin, and purins 
(uric acid and related substances), are valuable only as stim- 
ulants. They give sapidity to meats and hence are appetiz- 
ing ; possess the power of stimulating the flow of gastric juice, 
and by their influence on the nervous system, gently in- 
crease the activity of the heart. Por this reason, beef tea, 
beef extracts, etc., are of value to the sick. 

Cooking of Protein. Of all the proteins, "Albumin," of 
which there are many varieties, is the most important and 
needs most care in the cooking to make it easily digested. 

The majority of albumins are soluble in cold water and 
vegetable acids; they are coagulated by heat, mineral acids 
and alcohol. The cooking of albumin should be governed by 
these facts. 

" As the white of the egg is nearly pure albumin it will 
serve as an excellent illustration for demonstrating the effect 
of heat on the principal constituent of albuminous foods." 

Effect of Temperature or Test for CooTcing Albumin 
Into a test tube put some white of egg, place in a sauce pan 
of cold water, heat gradually, and observe all changes. 

1. Eaw white of egg is a sticky, clear, pale straw-colored 
liquid, and readily digested. 

2. When water reaches the temperature 134° P. white 
streaks will be seen in a semi-solid white substance which is 
found to be readily digested. 

3. When water reaches the temperature 160° P. the egg 
will be firm, soft, and jelly-like, and is readily digested. 

4. When water reaches 313° P. the egg will be tough white 
jelly and less readily digested. 



13 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. When egg is heated to 300° F. or higher (for example 
put the test tube directly over flame), the egg will almost 
immediately become hard and tenacious. 

These albumin tests demonstrate that albuminous foods 
are most tender and readily digested when cooked at a low 
temperature but when coagulated at too high a temperature 
are tough and indigestible. 

Eeheated albuminous foods are less digestible than freshly 
cooked because the albumin is much hardened by the second 
cooking. The principal foods requiring care^in preparation 
because of the albumin are eggs, meat, and fii^h. These will 
be considered further under their separate headings. 

NOW-NITROGENOUS FOODS 
CARBOHYDRATES (SUGAR AND STARCH): FATS 

Strictly speaking, any food substance not protein, even 
water and mineral water, is non-nitrogenous; but in the re- 
stricted sense of food as a source of energy, it is applied to 
two classes of organic compounds which contain no nitrogen, 
viz., carbohydrates and fats. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

Definition. Carbohydrates are food substances which con- 
tain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The oxygen and hydro- 
gen are usually present in proportion to form the water mole- 
cule (HjO). These substances have therefore been termed 
carbohydrates. A carbohydrate may be defined as a simple 
sugar, or a substance which yields simple sugar after hy- 
drolysis. 

Source. Carbohydrates come from the vegetable kingdom 
almost entirely. There are a few exceptions, such as glycogen 
and milk sugar. They abound throughout the plant world, 
but especially in grains, roots, tubers, or wherever the plant 
stores its reserves. 

Function. Carbohydrates are burned up in the body ' to 
produce energy in the form of work or heat. All that is 
taken in excess of immediate need is stored, first as glycogen 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 



13 



or " animal starch " in the liver and muscles ; and when the 
capacity to store .glycogen is exhausted, in the form of fat. 
The fuel value of fat is two and one-fourth times that of 
sugars and starches, so that this is a very convenient form 
of storage of surplus carbohydrate. 

The Most Important Energy Producing Foods are cereals, 
potatoes, tapioca, sago, fats, sugar and honey. 

Classification. Carbohydrates include the monosaccJiarides, 
as typified in grape sugar; the disaccJiarides, as typified in 
cane sugar, and polysaccharides, including starch, dextrin, 
gums, cellulose and glycogen: 



Carbohydrates 



(Grape Sugar (Dextrose or Glucose) 
^"^"a m^fture^^rd'exteose and levulose is 
called Invert Sugar. Honey is the 
best example in nature) 



CjHii 



Disaccharides 

Cj2"220il 



Polysaccharides 
CeHioOs 



" Cane Sugar ^ 

Beet Sugar >■ Sucrose 

Maple Sugar J 

Milk Sugar (Lactose) 

.Malt Sugar (Maltose) 

r Starch 
I Dextrin 
■j Glycogen 

Gums 
I Cellulose 



Sugar 
Definition. Sugars are carbohydrates which are soluble, 
have a more ct less sweet taste and many minor qualities 
which distinguish them from the starches. The disafccharides 
yield monosaccharides under the influence of enzymes or on 
boiling with dilute acids. When heated to a high tempera- 
ture sugars form caramel. ' In dietetics we are especially 
concerned with grape sugar (dextrose), milk sugar (lactose) 
and cane sugar (sucrose). 

DEXTKOSE OE GBAPE SUGAR (GLUCOSE) 

Description. Dextrose occurs as a syrup, rarely in crystal- 
line form. It is much less sweet than cane sugar. Other 
sugars have to be changed to this form before the body can 
use them. 



14 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Sources. It is found throughout the vegetable kingdom, 
and especially in fruits. A dried fig contains 65 per cent, 
of grape sugar. In nature it is formed from starch and so 
it may be produced in art by treating starch with acids. It 
is prepared on a large scale from cornstarch. 

Uses as Food. Dextrose or grape sugar is a fuel food in 
one of its most readily absorbed forms. It does not require 
digestion because this is the form to which carbohydrates of 
all kijids must be changed before they can be of use to the 
body. Taken in large quantities it is liable to ferment, or 
flood the system with sugar too rapidly, but as naturally 
present in sweet fruits, or in its artificial form in small 
quantities along with other food-stuffs, it is a very economical 
source of energy. 

LACTOSE 

MilTc Sugar or Lactose. This sugar is found almost ex- 
clusively in milk, from which it is commercially prepared. It 
has little sweetness and does not readily ferment. Until re- 
cently it has entered but little into practical dietetics, save 
in ease of infants or others subsisting wholly or partly on 
milk, but its ease of assimilation and its mild flavor, make 
it frequently a valuable source of energy in disease. 

CANE SUGAK 

Pure cane sugar is chemically the same as beet-sugar. 
Maple sugar would not be different from common sugar, if 
it were sufiBciently purified to remove the flavoring matter. 

Description. Cane sugar occurs naturally in crystals, some 
of which are extremely hard (rock candy) ; and in syrups, one 
of which is molasses. 

Sources, etc. Cane sugar is found in the sap or juices of 
a variety of plants, including sugar cane, the beet, the sugar 
maple, etc. Whether obtained by collecting sap or crushing, 
etc., it is always at first a syrup and all solid sugar is obtained 
from these juices by various methods. 

Uses as Food. Cane sugar enters into the dietary very 
largely, pure for table use, and in confectionery, or in com- 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 15 

binations with other foods in cookery. It is a very valuable 
source of energy, but must be used with discretion, because 
in too large amounts or in too concentrated form it is irri- 
tating to the stomach and liable to ferment, and also be- 
cause being quickly absorbed, it satisfies the appetite before 
the need for food has been entirely met, or blunts it so that 
other foods become distasteful. A pound of sugar and a 
pound of pure cornstarch are nearly equal in energy value. 
For children, it is much better to give sugar in the form of 
sweet fruits, because they are then supplied with valuable 
mineral salts which are entirely lacking in pure sugar. 

Substitute for Sugars. Since sugar is used not only as a 
fuel food but as a condiment, attempts have been made to 
secure a substitute for ■ use in cases where carbohydrate is 
limited or denied. The best known of these is " saccharin " 
or " sweetina," a crystalline coal-tar product. It is many 
times sweeter than sugar, but it has no food value. 

Use of Sugar in Practical Dietetics. Sugar taken in small 
quantities will replace starch weight for weight, and be more 
easily and quickly absorbed. The amount of sugar which 
can be taken ill place of other fuel food depends on the 
amount of exercise and the peculiarities of the individual. 
An excess of sweets may cause nausea and always blunts the 
appetite, thus cutting down the consumption of other foods. 
If a very large amount be taken, sugar will appear in the 
urine. The maximum advisable daily allowahce of sugar is 
considered to be about four ounces. 

Sugar should be avoided in gastric disorders, such dis- 
turbances of nutrition as gout, rheumatism, and especially 
diabetes. Being a highly concentrated food, it should be 
avoided in obesity. 

Uses of Sugar in Coohery. Glucose is not so sweet as cane 
sugar, so that when used for sweetening other foods a larger 
amount must be taken. In cooking fruits, sugar should be 
added when the process is nearly complete, as it tends to 
harden the fruit tissues. By boiling for a long time or in 
the presence of acids (whether naturally in the fruit or added 



16 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to it) cane sugar is changed to invert sugar, which is a 
mixture of equal parts of dextrose and levulose. While dex- 
trose is not so sweet as cane sugar, levulose is very much 
sweeter, so that the resulting product has a peculiar, pene- 
trating sweetness that is not so well liked as the cane sugar 
flavor. This is another reason for reserving the sugar till 
the end of the cooking process. 

Test for Sugar. A simple test for sugar, irrespective of 
whether it is glucose or cane sugar, consists in adding a little 
33 per cent, solution of caustic soda to the suspected solution, 
and boiling. If sugar is present the solution turns brown. 

The chief test for glucose or grape sugar alone is Fehling's. 
A test solution should be on hand, and may be obtained at any 
apothecaries. It should be obtained fresh. The test is based 
on the fact that glucose " reduces " salts of copper, i. e., by 
depriving them of some of their oxygen, an insoluble oxide 
of copper is precipitated. The test solution contains sulphate 
of copper, caustic potash and tartrate of sodium and potas- 
sium. To make the test, add to a portion of the test solution 
a few drops of the suspected solution in a test tube and boil. 
If a red substance precipitates, glucose is present. The sole 
use of this test for the nurse will probably be in connection 
with diabetes, when the nurse makes the test at the request of 
the medical attendant. In all other tests for sugar, the first 
test mentioned above will sufiBce, and would also suffice for dia- 
betic urine were it not for the fact that a shamming patient 
could deceive the nurse by placiiig common sugar in her urine. 

Starch and Other Polysaccharides 

Starchy foods form a large part of the ordinary diet of 
man ; they are the chief source of the carbohydrates. Starch, 
unlike sugar, is insoluble but may be made to pass into a 
soluble form by dry-heating at high temperature, -or by cer- 
tain digestive ferments. The first bodies formed are known 
as dextrins, but ultimately a sugar (maltose) is produced. 
The alimentary starches may be said to comprise starch 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 17 

proper; dextrins or soluble starches; and glycogen or animal 
starch, which is stored up in the liver. 

Source. Starch occurs widely in the vegetable kingdom, 
along with grape sugar. It is found in largest amounts in 
grains, seeds, roots and tubers. It is prepared for the market 
chiefly by mechanical means, being washed out of the finely 
cut vegetable substances. Its main commercial source is 
probably wheat, but it is also made largely from potatoes, rice, 
arrow-root, etc. 

Description. In its pure stale, i. e., when isolated from 
proteins, cellulose, gum, etc., starch is a shining white pow- 
der having a distinctive quality to the touch. Under the 
microscope it is found to consist of granules, which are in- 
soluble in cold water. When heated to a high temperature, 
these granules undergo a certain amount of transforma- 
tion into soluble starch and dextrin. Boiling the starch 
in water has the same results. The action of the group 
of ferments known as diastases is to transform starch suc- 
cessively into soluble starch, dextrin, and finally maltose 
(malt sugar). 

Uses as Food. Starch is seldom used pure in dietaries, but 
with other food principles in the form of various flours and 
bread made from them, or as breakfast cereals, legumes, po- 
tatoes, etc. The breads baked from wheat flour are among 
the most widely distributed foods. 

Other Polysaccharides. Aside from starch and sugar the 
polysaccharides contribute but little to dietetic uses. Cellu- 
lose, the framework of plants, constitutes the largest propor- 
tion of their bulk. It is the principal part of the so-called 
"indigestible residue" of digestion; and hence the amount 
of the residue varies greatly with the nature of the food 
eaten. Without nutritive value, it is still believed to be of 
service as a stimulant to intestinal peristalsis, by acting as 
a gentle mechanical irritant; by helping to retain moisture 
and keep the feces soft; and by giving such bulk that the 
intestinal muscles can act to good advantage. When attacked 
by bacteria, it forms acids which are valuable checks to in- 



18 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

testinal putrefaction. Unless it is desirable for some special 
reason to relieve the digestive tract of all work, a certain 
amount of cellulose should be included in the diet. In con- 
stipation the addition of some non-irritating form, as agar- 
agar has proved a successful therapeutic measure. 

Oums, taken incidentally into the body, represent little or 
no nutritive value, and like cellulose act as " ballast." 

Principles of Cooking Starch. The principles involved in 
the cooking of starch are of two types — chemical and me- 
chanical. 

Chemical Principles. Since raw starch is digestible only 
to a slight degree, it is essential to perfect digestion that 
starchy foods be cooked. 

In the presence of moisture, starch is made soluble at the 
temperature of boiling water, i. e., 212° F. By long boiling, 
this soluble starch can be converted into dextrin, a still more 
easily digested form than soluble starch. This principle is 
applied in the making of gruels, especially for invalids and 
infants. 

By dry heat, at a temperature considerably above 318° P. 
(300° P.-400° P.) starch can be converted quite readily to 
dextrin. This principle is applied in making toast. Some 
of the starch is further changed to caramel, giving a char- 
acteristic flavor to the crust of bread, toast, etc. 

Mechanical Principles. When foods composed almost en- 
tirely of pure starch, such as flour, cornstarch, etc., are to 
be cooked with a liquid, care must be taken to prevent the 
formation of lumps, for these are not only unsightly, but con- 
sist of an outer layer of soluble starch surrounding a center 
of unchanged material and preventing its being made di- 
gestible. 

There are three methods of avoiding lumps : — 

1, By mixing the starch gradually with a small portion 
of cold water, -so that a smooth fluid mass is 
formed, before adding the boiling liquid. This 
method is useful in making gruels, etc. 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 19 

2. By mixing with fat before adding liquid. The melt- 

ing fat separates the starch granules. At least as 
much fat as starch must be used. The liquid is 
preferably added cold, and all at once. If added 
hot, it must be stirred in very gradually. This 
method is employed in making gravies, sauces, etc. 

3. By mixing with sugar. The melting sugar serves 

to separate the starch grains. This is practicable 
only when the sugar is greater in amount than the 
starch, and the liquid must be added gradually. 
This method is applied in the case of desserts, such 
as cornstarch pudding. 

When foods consisting of a mixture of starch and cellulose, 
as cereal breakfast foods, are to be cooked, it is necessary to 
soften and break up the cellulose to enable the digestive juices 
to reach the starch. This, necessitates long cooking at a 
temperature neaT the boiling point. The longer such a cereal 
product is cooked, the easier of digestion it becomes. Hence 
it is an excellent rule to cook such foods for infants and others 
of feeble digestive powers, twice as long as is commonly recom- 
mended. 

Eeheating of starchy foods, therefore, tends to increase 
their digestibility. Zwieback (or twice-baked bread) is more 
digestible, for example, than fresh bread. 

Test for Starch. Starch is colored blue by iodin. Hence 
it is easy to detect its presence in any food. To make the 
test, a small portion of the material should be placed in a 
test tube, boiled with a little water, cooled, and two or three 
drops of dilute tincture of iodin added. If starch is present, 
the blue color will immediately appear. Dextrin gives a port- 
wine color with iodin, so that if any of this substance be 
present, the color is modified, becoming more or less purplish, 
or purple-red. 

FATS AND OIIS 

Definition. Fats are food-stuffs having the same ultimate 
chemical composition as carbohydrates; i. e., consisting of 



so PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, but the latter element is pres- 
ent in less proportion than in carbohydrates. Fats were 
formerly spoken of as hydrocarbons, but this term is now 
reserved for substances which contain no oxygen at all, such 
as benzine. 

Description. True fats, whether solid or oily, are chem- 
ically compounds of fatty acids with glycerine, and difEer 
among themselves according to the particular fatty acids they 
contain. These commonly comprise stearic, palmitic and 
oleic acids. The stearates or combinations of stearic acid 
with glycerine (also generally spoken of as stearins) are solid 
fats as are also palmitates or palmitins. The oleates or oleius 
on the other hand are fluid at ordinary temperatures. It 
is therefore evident that solid fats contain much more stearin 
or palmitin than olein, while fat oils consist chiefly of olein. 
Stearin is found only in fat of animal origin. Animal fats 
are therefore a mixture of all three classes, while vegetable 
fats consist of mixtures of palmitins and oleins. Suet and 
tallow owe their firmness largely to the amount of stearin 
present, while lard owes its softness to the amount of olein 
present. Butter consists largely of palmitin. The most 
prominent of the animal fats are butter, cream, lard, suet, 
tallow, butterine, oleomargarine and cod-liver oil. The veg- 
etable oils are obtained from fruits and nuts (olive, cotton- 
seed, peanut, cocoanut, cocoa bean and almond). Vegetable 
oils and the liver oil of fish are composed chiefly of olein. 
Certain dietetic substances not usually thought of as fatty, 
contain much oil. Some of these are yolks of eggs, Indian 
corn and nearly all nuts except chestnuts. Artificial products 
like butterine are described elsewhere. They are often pre- 
ferred to butter because their melting point is lowered by the 
addition of suet or tallow (beef -drippings) so that they keep 
better in warm weather. 

Lecithin is a substance usually classed with fats and oils. 
Besides fatty acids it contains phosphorus. It is a necessary 
constituent of every living .cell and is especially plentiful in 
the nervous tissues. At present it is used to a considerable 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 21 

extent in medicine in the belief that it is of value as a food- 
drug and reconstituent. It is prepared from the yolk of egg 
and from brain substance. Feeding yolks of eggs is usually 
as advantageous and cheaper. 

Volatile Oils. These, as already stated, have little in com- 
mon with true oils. They stain paper only temporarily , 
while a fat stain is permanent. They vary much among 
themselves in composition and agree chiefly in their tendency 
to disappear by evaporation; and their odor, taste and pun- 
gency. A few of them are used in diet for flavoring. The 
oil of bergamot is obtained from orange peel, oil of lemon 
from lemon peel, etc. The act of cooking tends to volatilize 
them, so that such flavoring should be added at the last mo- 
ment. 

Sources of Fat in the Diet. The chief sources of fat in the 
diet are milk (yielding cream and butter), olive oil, meat 
fats (especially lard, bacon and salt pork, beef suet and drip- 
pings), and oily nuts. 

Cheap Forms of Fat. Butter, cream, olive oil, lard, etc., 
are all subject to adulteration with cheaper fats, but aside 
from the fraud in charging a high price there is a legitimate 
industry for making cheaper products representing these 
articles. Thus skim milk has its lost cream restored by a 
homogenized meat fat containing some butter.. A substitute 
for butter is produced from animal fats and sold under special 
names, etc. The industry is yet in its infancy, although half 
a century old. The more expensive fats are prized for their 
flavor, but the cheaper fats carefully refined have also a high 
nutritive value. 

Function. Fats are burned up in the body and produce 
energy in the form of work or heat. According to Dr. W. 
Oilman Thompson, the chief uses of fats are as follows: 

1. To furnish energy for the development of heat. 

2. To supply force. 

3. To serve as covering and protection in the body. 

4. To make more plastic various structures of the body and give 
rotundity to the form. 



33 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. To spare the tissues from disintegration; for, although their 
combustion in the body results largely in the production of heat, 
they also take to some extent in tissue formation. 

6. To serve for storage of energy. 

Source of Body Fat. Twenty per cent, of the normal 
"weight of man is fat. It is derived mainly from fatty foods 
and carbohydrates. Proteins are transformed into fat only to 
a very limited degree. It is most readily produced from car- 
bohydrates, or a mixture of carbohydrates and fats. 

Principles of Cooking. Pats are more digestible cold than 
hot, because hot fat tends to coat and intimately penetrate 
the food with which it is cooked or eaten, and as this coating 
is not dissolved by the digestive juices of the mouth or 
stomach, little or no digestion of carbohydrate and protein., 
can take place in either of these places under such circum- 
stances. Heating fat to a high temperature also changes its 
chemical nature, often producing irritating substances which 
interfere with digestion. Por such reasons fried food should 
never be given to invalids. 

Digestibility. The majority of fats are not very easily di- 
gested, consequently are not tolerated by those suilering from 
indigestion or by patients acutely ill; their use should be 
limited to finely divided forms, as in milk or yolk of egg; 
it is sometimes even necessary to reduce the fat in milk by 
skimming off the cream, or to limit the amount of yolk of 
egg, inasmuch as 30 per cent, of the yolk is fat. Other 
forms of fat valuable in the invalid's dietary are butter, cod- 
liver oil, and fat bacon cooked crisp. All fats, except limited 
quantities of butter and cream, should be forbidden in acute 
diseases of the stomach, intestines and liver, and in most of 
the chronic affections. Their uses should be limited also in 
the presence of gall stones. 

Fatty foods should be prescribed for children with rickets 
and for all who have diabetes. In the latter disease they 
partly replace the carbohydrates which cannot be used. Pat 
may be prescribed with benefit in chronic wasting disease 
such as tuberculosis, and during convalescence from severe 



WATER 23 

acute disease. The most agreeable and digestible forms 
should be given. At first a small portion only should be 
taken, and the quantity increased in proportion to a patient's 
willingness to accept it. In a general way fats and oils are 
laxative; consequently useful in case of constipation and 
equally harmful where there is a tendency to diarrhoea. 

Comparative Value of Fat and Carbohydrates as Fuel Foods. 
Fats and carbohydrates serve the same purpose in the body, 
in that they furnish energy. Fats are not as easily digested 
as carbohydrates, but weight for weight they furnish two and 
one-fourth times as much energy. 

Tests for Fats. Pats are readily tested with paper; if 
they are present in a given substance a permanent grease- 
spot appears. If to a suspected substance a little solution of 
caustic soda is added a white precipitate forms, representing 
a hard soda soap. 

WATER 

Composition and Properties. Water is a compound of hy- 
drogen and oxygen, consisting of two parts by volume of 
oxygen to one of hydrogen. Absolutely pure water is color- 
less, odorless, and tasteless, but such wat^r is not found in 
nature, owing to its great solvent power, which causes it to 
dissolve substances with which it comes in contact. Water 
ordinarily, therefore, contains varying quantities of mineral 
and organic matter, including gases. To these substances in 
solution the characteristic flavor is due. Water from which, 
the air has been expelled by long standing in a warm place, 
or by boiling, has a " flat " taste. 

Water freezes at 33° F. On heating, the ice melts, and 
we may have ice water with a temperature of 33° F. When 
this water is warmed, the air dissolved in it begins to expand, 
and tiny bubbles appear, forming first on the sides of the 
vessel, and tending to rise to the surface. If the water there 
is not yet warmed, they contract and sink, but finally when 
the water is warm throughout, come to the surface and es- 
cape. After the air is thus expelled, if heating is continued. 



24 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

steam bubbles form in a similar manner. At 185° P., water 
bubbles below the surface, or simmers. When the bubbles 
reach the surface and break, giving off a cloud of steam, the 
boiling point has been reached, 213° F. Except under pres- 
sure, water can then become no hotter. Fast boiling simply 
means rapid evaporations and waste of fuel. 

Source of Water as Food. A considerable source of water 
is food itself. In green vegetables and fruits it constitutes 
as high as 85 per cent.-95 per cent, of the whole substance ; in 
potatoes and other starchy vegetables it is present in as large 
amount as 75 per cent. Even in seemingly dry foods, as 
crackers, there may be as much as 5 to 10 per cent. But 
since 60 per cent, of the body itself is composed of water, and 
water loss through the lungs, skin, kidneys, etc., is very con- 
stant, the supply in ordinary diet is not sufficient, and water 
must be added as a beverage. This may be in the form of 
ordinary drinking water, of tea, coffee, or other similar bev- 
erages and of medicinal waters; the latter, however, should 
be considered chiefly under the head of drugs. 

Functions of Water in the Body. Water undergoes no 
chemical change in the body, yet the consideration of it is of 
vital importance. Solution is an essential part of digestion. 
Water bathes the tissues and washes away our waste and ex- 
crementitious matter. As it does not itself undergo any 
chemical alteration it is not susceptible of liberating force, 
consequently is not an energy-producing agent, but contributes 
to chemical changes by supplying a necessary condition for 
their occurrence. 

Dr. Gilman Thompson summarizes the uses of water in the 
body as follows: 

1. It enters into the chemical combination of the tissues. 

2. It forms the chief ingredient of all the fluids of the body and 
maintains their proper degree of dilution. 

3. By moistening various surfaces of the body, such as the mucous 
and serous membranes, it prevents friction and the uncomfortable 
symptoms which might result from their drying. 

4. It furnishes in the Hood and lymph a fluid medium by which 



WATER .35 

food may be taken to remote parts of the body and the waste material 
removed, thus promoting rapid tissue changes. 

5. It serves as a distributor of body heat. 

6. It regulates the body temperature by the physical processes of 
absorption and evaporation. 

Professional fasters have shown that one may live for 
weeks without food, but it may readily be demonstrated that 
a warm-blooded animal except in a state of hibernation or 
trance can subsist but a few days without water. 

Food Uses of Water. Water taken in considerable quan- 
tities with meals favors upward metabolism and increases the 
utilization of food. Thirst at meals does not always mean 
a true body demand for water, as it may be due to condiments, 
or to improper mastication of food. Under ordinary circum- 
stances, about three or four pints daily are necessary to make 
up loss of water that is constantly being eliminated through 
the skin, kidneys, lungs and intestines. The quantity ex- 
creted daily varies greatly under special conditions. The de- 
mand for water is much increased by hot weather, and vio- 
lent exercise, and diminished in the bedridden and sedentary. 
Babies, delirious patients, etc., should be fed water, as care- 
fully as other food. 

Classification of Varieties of Drinhing Waters. The clas- 
sification of water as food is based chiefly on its purity and 
palatability. 

Hard and Soft Water. Water containing calcium (lime) 
or magnesium salts is known as hard water ; and if it contains 
these salts in excess it is unsuited not only for drinking 
but for cooking and bathing, unless purified or softened. As 
only the carbonates can be expelled from the water, the purifi- 
cation is incomplete; chlorides and sulphates remain behind. 
For washing purposes the carbonate of lime may be precipi- 
tated by treating with lye, whereupon it rises to the surface 
and can be skimmed off. By adding soda to cooking water, 
a similar softening is obtained desirable in cooking vegetables, 
as they are toughene"d by the lime and sodium chloride. 
Finally, for drinking purposes hard water may be subjected 



36' PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to prolonged boiling and straining; by this means the car- 
bonic acid is driven off and the lime is set free. It must be 
remembered that a water not suited for domestic uses may 
still be fit for drinking if not taken in great excess, because 
lime and magnesium are natural ingredients of the body. 

In soft water only a small amount of salts are found and 
as a rule it is more desirable to use for cooking purposes, 
especially in the cooking of legumes or when the object is 
to extract the nourishment or flavor of food, as in making 
tea or soup, etc. 

Eain water is naturally pure but devoid of any mineral 
content, which is sometimes a disadvantage. It is not very 
palatable. It should be remembered that the first part of a 
rain fall carries down with it dust and impurities from the 
air, but the latter part of a shower furnishes as pure water 
as can be found from any source. 

Spring Water, well water, etc., vary greatly in the amount 
of mineral matter, organic matter, gases, etc., present. In 
many cases the mineral content or gas content is such as to 
confer a medicinal value. In other eases the mineral matter 
is a menace to health. In most ground-water there is organic 
matter which besides being undesirable in itself invites the 
presence of germs, which often threaten the health and safety 
of whole communities. Great care should be taken as to the 
location of a well ; deep spring water and water from artesian 
wells is usually pure. City water is usually filtered through 
sand beds and otherwise purified ; the law requires such waters 
to be frequently analyzed as to purity. 

As water may dissolve the lead from pipes through which 
it flows, it should be allowed to run several minutes before 
using if it has not been recently run off (as after standihg 
over night) to avoid the risk of lead poisoning. 

Filtered Water is water freed from organic matter of all 
kinds. It should be pure and palatable. But filtered water 
as a rule cannot be depended upon for purity owing to the 
fact that the domestic filters require constant cleansing and 



WATER 27 

serve to condense the impure organic matter which putrefies 
upon the filter and renders the water passed through them 
fouler in place of purer. Small filters screwed on fau- 
cets are of no value whatever. There are charcoal and 
porcelain filters on the market that are very good, but are 
not effective unless often and thoroughly cleansed. "When 
there is the least doubt as to the purity of water it is best to 
boil it. 

Boiled Water. Water simply sterilized by boiling and 
kept in bottles in a cool place is extensively used when there 
is suspicion as to its purity. It is rather unpalatable. Boil- 
ing renders harmless all the organic impurities and precipi- 
tates salts of lime. It must always be borne in mind that 
typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery and other pestilences are 
largely water-borne diseases, and whenever there is any sus- 
picion that water is contaminated, the most available method 
for purification is boiling. Before filling the bottles, have 
them thoroughly cleansed and rinse with boiling hot water, 
as a few drops of unboiled water would be sufficient to con- 
taminate the whole. To prevent breaking, place bottles in 
pan of warm water before pouring in the boiling water. 

Distilled Water. This is water in its purest state. It is 
said by many authorities to be unsuited for a beverage be- 
cause of total absence of mineral matter and gases, on ac- 
count of which mineral matter is greedily abstracted from 
the walls of the stomach, thereby causing congestion and irri- 
tation. It is generally used for medicinal and chemical pur- 
poses. If employed as a beverage it should be aerated to 
improve the flavor. 

Carbonated Waters. Ordinary water may be artificially 
charged with carbon dioxid, as soda water, etc. Among the 
most common carbonated waters (naturally charged) are 
Vichy, ApoUinaris and Seltzer (effervescing waters) and Po- 
land water (uneiferveseing). These are valuable in case of 
fever and to tempt people to drink more water; also in re- 
lieving nausea and vomiting. They are used to advantage 
with acid drinks and to dilute alcoholic liquors. Carbonated 



28 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

water of any kind should not be taken in excess, as such waters 
are apt to produce indigestion, by retarding the action of the 
gastric juice. 

Alkaline Mineral Waters are carbonated (naturally 
charged) and differ from ordinary water in the greater 
amount of gaseous (carbon dioxid and sulphuretted hydro- 
gen) and solid matter , (sodium chloride, potassium, magne- 
sium, iron, sulphur, etc., etc.), which they contain. Some 
mineral waters have no medicinal value and are simply used 
for quenching thirst; others have purgative, laxative or diu- 
retic effect. The following are a few examples of the latter 
class — Sulphur Spring, Saratoga, Vichy, Hunyadi, London- 
derry, and Lithia Waters. ■ 

The benefit derived from the water cures so often pre- 
scribed is not usually from the water itself but from the 
change, treatment and quantity of water taken. Much bene- 
fit can be derived by following the same treatment at home. 

Temperature of Drinhing Water. Luke-warm or tepid 
water (65° to 93° P.) which in theory should be most suited 
for drinking is insipid and even repugnant to most people. 
Hence as a beverage water is either taken warm (93° to 100° 
R), hot (100° P. and over), cool (65° to 93° F.) or cold (33° 
to 65° P.). The taking of hot water in large quantities has 
been found of benefit for weak digestions and in much chronic 
invalidism. It acts as a stimulant to gastric digestion; re- 
lieves thirst more quickly than cold water ; is more quickly ab- 
sorbed, and leaves the stomach sooner. Cool water is the nor- 
mal beverage for quenching thirst. Ice water is unsuitable 
for all individuals when overheated, and with meals for dys- 
peptics and those in delicate health. Fever patients, however, 
may take it ad libitum ; for most robust individuals who crave 
it with or without meals it seems to do no great harm, if taken 
slowly and in moderation. Its coldness acts as a natural 
check against overindulgence. It probably slows the move- 
ments of the stomach and as long as the stomach is chilled 
the action of the pepsin is curtailed since this acts best near 



MINERAL MATTER 39 

blood temperature, but the arrest is only temporary. A small 
quantity of crushed ice is known to relieve nausea. 

MINERAL MATTER 

Function. The mineral matter in the body serves the 
most varied ends. It gives solidity to the bones and teeth ^ 
its presence in body fluids, such as blood and lymph, im- 
parts to them a certain degree of concentration which is abso- 
lutely necessary to the vital processes. (Again, minute quan- 
tities of mineral matter are invariably present in living cells 
and are indispensable to their existence. The kind of min- 
eral matter in a given tissue or organ varies according to its 
function. The bones and teeth owe their stability to salts 
of calcium (lime) and magnesium, especially the phosphates. ' 
The salts which are necessary for the regulation_of_the body 
fluids comprise potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium, 
especially in the form of chlorides. The substances essential 
to the active cells, as part of their normal_ structure comprise 
phospho rus, irnri r aTid snlpbur,, in tEe'form of organic com- 
pounds, along with other salts in small quantities. Phos - 
phoras is found in the nuclei of all cells and is essential for 
growth. The red corpuscles ar e rich^in iron, and the thyroid 
gland cells containconsjderable iodin.. Nearly all cells have 
traces of sulphur, mainly in the form of protein. ) 

Amount and Kind of Mineral Matter in the Organism. 
The mineral matter in the body amounts to about 5 or 6 
per cent, by weight, occurring chiefly in the bones. The ele- 
ments needed in the body can all be found in food. 

The chemical elements found in the body comprise hydro- 
gen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus, sulphur, silicon, 
fluorin, chlorin, iodin, all of the non-metal type; while of the 
metals are present sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, 
iron. Traces of manganese, aluminium, possibly also arsenic, 
are sometimes found. Any substance which exists in the soil 
may find its way into the body. 



30 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

There is more calcium (lime) in the body than any other 
of the metals, while phosphorus exists to a greater extent 
than any other non-metallic element, exclusive of those which 
go to form living matter. These elements predominate thus 
because the bones contain so large an amount of phosphate 
of lime. Lime is also present to a considerable extent as car- 
bonate. Magnesium phosphate comes next in amount. With 
the exception of these three bone compounds, mineral matter 
is present in relatively small quantities. 

The sodium and chlorin occur chiefly in the form of sodium 
chlorid, which is present in all the fluids and solids. The 
chlorin of hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice comes from 
the sodium chlorid. Some sodium is also present as car- 
bonate and phosphate, and these two are found in sufficient 
amount to give the blood and numerous fluids and secretions 
an alkaline reaction. Potassium occurs mainly in the form 
of potassium phosphate. Muscle-tissue is rich in this salt. 

The sulphur and phosphorus which enter the body in the 
form of protein in animal food are oxidized to sulphuric 
and phosphoric acids and these at once combine with bases 
to form sulphates and phosphates of lime, sodium, etc. 
Sulphates occur to a slight extent only, while as already stated 
phosphates are the most important constituents numerically. 

Source of Mineral Matter in the Food. The mineral mat- 
ter received into the body comes either from the solid food 
or dietetic fluids. With the exception of sodium chlorid 
(common salt) it is not usually added to the diet. Such ad- 
ditions, however, are often prescribed as medicine in states 
of ill^ health. Thus phosphates and hypophosphites of lime, 
sodium and potassium are used largely in rickets and scrofula. 
Iron is given for impoverished blood. It is better to give 
them in the form of food as far as possible, and care should 
be taken to see that the food is rich in the mineral elements 
needed even if they are at the same time being given in in- 
organic form, for the body can use food salts in many in- 
stances to much greater advantage. 

Animal food in general contains the same mineral con- 



MINERAL MATTER 31 

stituents that are found in corresponding human tissues. 

Cow's milk is rich in calcium and phosphorus in organic 
forms, and contains small amounts of sodium, potassium, 
magnesium, iron and chlorin. 

Eggs contain iron and phosphorus in their most assimilable 
forms, especially in the yolks. 

Meats are lacking in calcium, and while red meats are 
comparatively rich i n iron , it is not in as available form as 
in eggs. ■""■ "" 

Since the animals used by us as food obtain their mineral 
matter from plants, the riche st and most v aried sup ply is com- 
monly found in the vegetable ki ngdom. Calcium is abundant, 
especially in such vegetables as beans and peas, fresh or dried, 
in other green vegetables, "in fruits and the outer parts of 
grains. There is little in polished rice or fine flour. 

Vegetable foods are rich in potassium, which usually oc- 
curs in the form of potassium phosphates. Spinach is richer 
in iron than almost any other plant food; whole wheat, oat- 
meaiT^eas and beans, raisins and prunes are also valuable 
sources of organic iron. ^ 

Vegetable Acids and, their Salts. Some authorities con- 
sider these substances under the head of mineral matter, 
although they have an organic origin and do not pre-exist 
in the soil. They comprise the acids of juicy fruits such as 
the citric acid of the citrus group, the malic acid of apples, 
pears, etc., and the tartaric acid of grapes. They exist partly 
in a state of combination with sodium and potassium. Prom 
a dietetic standpoint they may be placed in the same category 
as the carbonic acid gas and alkaline carbonates of the diet, 
because in the body they quickly become changed to car- 
.bonates, and assist in the maintenance of the proper reaction 
of the blood. Various tdiseases are believed to be due to an 
excess of acid in the diet, or what is the same thing, to a 
diminution of alkali. There is no doubt that substances con- 
taining these bodies and their compounds form a very useful 
and agreeable addition to dietaries. 

Importance of a Proper Supply of Mineral Matter. It 



32 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

was formerly thought that since mineral matter is universally 
present in food and drink, an individual need pay little at- 
tention to this phase of the feeding problem. Before the 
paths of elimination of ash constituents had been studied with 
any care, it was assumed that many such compounds were 
excreted in the feces without having ever been absorbed. 
Since more light has been thrown on the fact that the in- 
testines form the regular path of excretion of certain mineral 
matter, and on the chemical nature of the regulation of body 
processes, there has been greater realization of the fact that 
unless a diet is chosen from a wide range of food materials, 
there is danger of some of these constituents being supplied in 
too small quantities or not at all. This is especially true in 
the case of artificially-fed infants and of growing children, 
whose demand for building material is large, but it is not 
negligible even in adults, especially for the proper control 
of the body processes. If care is taken to provide iron, 
phosphorus and calcium in organic forms, there is little dan- 
ger of inadequate supply of the inorganic salts, since these 
are present in the milk, eggs, green vegetables and fruits 
which best supply the elements mentioned above. 

Use of Mineral Matter in Disease. In health, deprivation 
of salt soon leads to great loss of vitality, but in various 
diseases reduction in the consumption of salt is known to be 
beneficial. Thus in such conditions as Bright's Disease, 
sodium chlorid (common salt), appears to be so injurious 
that attempts are made to reduce the quantity ingested. This 
is known as "salt starvation." Epileptics who depend 
upon bromides to prevent their fits can do with much less of 
these substances if their salt is cut down, because bromin up 
to a certain extent displaces the chlorin in such compounds 
as sodium chlorid, and fails to fulfill its purpose in such a 
case. 

Lime-starvation is also practiced under certain circum- 
stances, and some animals can thrive fairly well if calcium is 
replaced by strontium, an allied substance never present nor- 
mally in animal tissues. It is common to find statements that 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OB ADJUNCTS 33 

certain serious disorders like calculus disease, rickets, scurvy, 
tuberculosis, etc., are due primarily to too much or too little 
of some mineral ; but as already stated the real causes must lie 
deeper, although the possibility of such factors must never be 
underrated. Scurvy was once held to be due to too much 
salt, used as preservatives; later it was regarded as due less 
to excess of some salts than absence of others, as potassium. 
We only know that with a more liberal dietary, including 
vegetables and fruits, it has largely disappeared. Calculus 
disease of certain kinds is more frequent in districts where 
drinking water contains much lime, but most people escape 
the aflfection. 

Children with rickets often improve on preparations con- 
taining lime and sodium, as also do scrofulous children, but 
it is difficult to show that in such eases the remedies act by 
supplying any one kind of mineral food. The safe way is to 
supply foods containing all, unless some particular condition 
makes the elimination or addition of specific elements neces- 
sary. 

FOOD ACCESSORIES OB ADJUNCTS 

CONDIMENTS — BEVEBAGES 
CONDIMENTS 

Condiments are substances not necessarily possessing nutri- 
tive value, which are used to give sapidity to tasteless or un- 
appetizing dishes. To what -extent they have any specific 
action on the functions of the body is not clear. They tend 
to increase the flow of saliva, and thus in theory favor the 
digestion of starch. 

Classification. The number of condiments, if we include 
appetizing substances of all kinds, is very large. In some 
countries, olives, a bit of dried herring, in fact, anything pos- 
sessing pungency, may be served before a regular meal. Al- 
coholic beverages need not be considered here. 

Sauces perhaps represent the largest class of condiments 
and the great number and variety of their ingredients give 



34 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

us some idea of the number of individual condiments. They 
are added to food while eating. 

Spices (ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves) are used 
only in cooking. In this same category may be placed flavor- 
ing extracts. 

Mustard forms a condiment in itself. It is used both in 
preparing food and as an accessory while eating. Horserad- 
ish belongs in the same class. The flavor of these depends 
on a volatile oil peculiar to each substance. Such oils have 
no value as foods. Pepper, salt and vinegar form the most 
indispensable of table condiments. Of these, salt is, strictly 
speaking, a food. When, however, it is used in excess of 
body needs, simply to modify the flavor of food, it is prop- 
erly classed as a condiment. 

Condiments are taken for their mild stimulating effects on 
the tissues with which they come in contact. They are not 
required by a normal appetite, but are frequently used to 
obscure the flavor of poorly prepared food. Just as bread can 
be made of so delicate a flavor that it can be eaten without 
butter, most other foods can be so treated as to have a suffi- 
cient sapidity. In the Northern States, tomatoes and melons 
are eaten with various accessories ; in some parts of the South 
such fruits have so delicious a flavor that they are eaten plain. 
To add a cheap table sauce to a costly steak seems a gas- 
tronomic sin and certainly has no physiological justification. 

In short, the taste for condiments is largely an artificial 
one, and their use should be limited. A well-trained palate 
tires of these high seasonings more quickly than of the mild 
characteristic flavors of food perfect in its natural state or 
so cooked as to develop its inherent taste. The moderate use 
of condiments occasionally, for the sake of variety, or when 
the appetite is feeble, may be legitimate. They should be 
withheld (with the exception of salt), from the food of chil- 
dren, both because they destroy the appetite for milder foods, 
and because they are irritating to the mucous membrane of 
the alimentary canal. Because of their irritant properties 
they should also be given with caution to invalids, especially 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 35 

those suffering from any inflammation of the digestive tract. 
A person properly trained to relish foods for their natural 
flavors does not crave condiments, and is better off without 
them. 

BEVERAGES 

These food accessories comprise milk, coffee, tea, cocoa 
and chocolate, alcoholic drinks, lemonade and other acid 
drinks, aerated and carbonated drinks. Milk is a food 
rather than a beverage, becoming a solid instead of a liquid 
food in the stomach. It is the only product in nature pro- 
vided solely for food. It contains not only protein, fat, and 
carbohydrates in good proportions, but also a rich supply of 
mineral salts in an available form. Growing children should 
have at least a quart of milk every day. Cocoa and chocolate 
are also valuable for their content of protein, fat, and car- 
bohydrate, and drinks from fruit Juices contain mineral salts, 
organic acids (which help to maintain the alkalinity of the 
blood), and some carbohydrate. In other cases, the value of 
beverages does not lie in their nutritive content. 

Stimulation. Coffee, tea, chocolate and cocoa contain a 
stimulating alkaloid which produces mild exhilaration without 
reaction. Alcoholic drinks while they tend to produce nar- 
cotic effects when taken in excess, act as stimulants and ap- 
petizers in small quantities. 

Thirst Quenching. Substances like lemonade, ginger ale, 
and aerated drinks in general use are used for this purpose. 

Sapidity. Coffee and its congeners are used largely for 
their delicate flavor, and this may be said to a certain degree 
of all beverages. Drinks especially designed for the invalid 
and the sick will be considered under other heads. 



CHAPTEE II 
NUTRITION 

SIGESTI0I7 — ABSORPTION — UETABOIISU 

Under this term is usually understood the digestion and 
absorption of nourishment, its assimilation and utilization, 
its storage in excess, and finally the elimination of the 
products of wear and tear, of combustion products, and of 
nutriment or waste which cannot be utilized. Those processes 
of nutrition which occur after absorption are now included in 
the term metabolism. To restate this in a simple form 
(adapted from Thompson), nutrition involves: 

1. The secretion of digestive fluids, and their action upon 
food in the alimentary canal — in other words, digestion. 

2. The passage of the ingredients of the digested food into 
the blood vessels and lymphathic vessels — absorption. 

3. The utilization of the absorbed nutrition products by 
the cells — assimilation or upward metabolism. 

4. The elimination of waste material — disassimilation or 
downward metabolism. 

The subjects of digestion and absorption will be treated in 
detail for each food principle, and then summarized at the 
end of each topic. 

DIGESTION 

DIGESTION OE PROTEINS 

Digestion in the Stomach. Protein is not chemically al- 
tered in the mouth. The process of chewing simply mois- 
tens and divides it into small particles so that it is easily 
swallowed and more readily attacked by the secretion of the 
stomach. Passing down the oesophagus, through the cardiac 

36 



DIGESTION 37 

/ 
sphincter guarding the entrance to the stomach, it enters that 
portion of the latter organ called the fundus. Here it rests 
quietly for some time, so that it is not immediately mixed 
with gastric juice, as formerly taught, but the outer portions 
of the mass are successively attacked and dissolved. These 
soft portions are then pressed into the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach and subjected to a thorough 
mixing. 

The gastric juice is an acid fluid which may be secreted in 
large quantities — as much as one or two gallons in 34 hours. 
Its acidity is due to the presence of about 0.2 per cent, to 0.4 
per cent, of hydrochloric acid. This of itself is capable; of 
causing protein to swell and to some extent dissolve; of 
hydrolyzing the collagen of connective tissue; of decalcifying 
bone; and of preventing bacterial action. 

The gastric juice contains two enzymes which act on pro- 
tein, pepsin and rennin. Pepsin can act only in the presence 
of a definite percentage of hydrochloric acid, while rennin 
acts in a neutral solution. The relations of rennin and pep- 
sin are not yet very clearly understood. The function of 
rennin is to curdle milk, which causes it to remain in the 
stomach long enough to be digested by the pepsin. 

Action of Pepsin. The protein of the diet, more or less 
swollen, softened, and dissolved by the action of hydrochloric 
acid, is changed chemically by pepsin, into a series of in- 
creasingly simpler and more soluble products, namely, acid 
proteins, proteoses (often called albumoses) and peptones. 
The change to peptones is not complete, but these three 
products of peptic digestion tend to pass together into the 
intestine, when the pyloric sphincter which guards the en- 
trance to the duodenum opens to let them pass. The opening 
and closing of this sphincter is controlled by two factors: 
1. The consistency of the partly digested food, solid particles 
tending to keep the pylorus closed. 2. The presence of free 
hydrochloric acid in the stomach contents. This is the more 
important factor. 

Protein is capable of absorbing and uniting chemically with 



38 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

a certain amount of acid. When it is so saturated, freie acid 
will be present, having now nothing with which to combine, 
and this free acid is the stimulus which causes the pyloric 
sphincter to relax and lets a little spurt of food into the 
duodenum. Once in the duodenum, this same acid acts as 
the stimulus to close the pylorus, and no more food enters the 
duodenum until the first portion has been neutralized. 

A clear understanding of the way in which the pyloric 
sphincter is regulated throws considerable light on stomach 
digestion. We can understand why a certain quantity of in- 
digestible residue, such as is present in most of our staple 
foods — meats, vegetables, fruits, etc. — is of service in re- 
taining food within the stomach for a time, giving the 
hydrochloric acid a chance to exercise its bactericidal power, 
and favoring thorough gastric digestion. It also explains 
why a meal of " bolted " food (or of food imperfectly masti- 
cated through absence of teeth), or a failure of free hydro- 
chloric acid in the stomach contents, as in hypoacidity or 
achylia gastrica, may set up such a continuous state of pyloric 
contraction that the stomach remains unemptied for a long 
period, with a good prospect of fermentation and gas pro- 
duction, of relief by vomiting, or of an attack of acute in- 
digestion, biliousness or diarrhoea. The nurse will under- 
stand why a diet of "liquids" for a person in relatively 
good health does not prove satisfactory. Liquids do not stay 
long enough in the stomach to give a sense of fullness, give 
the stomach little to do, and tend to pass into the intestine 
poorly prepared for the action of the digestive juices there. 

Digestion in the Intestines. On entering the duodenum, 
the acid chyme from the stomach meets'- three secretions, all 
alkaline in reaction, namely, the pancreatic juice, the hile, 
and the intestinal juice. 

The hydrochloric acid of the stomach is indirectly respon- 
sible for the flow of the pancreatic iuice^ for this begins only 
after acid food has entered the duodenum. The pancreatic 
juice contains an enzyme capable of digesting protein only 
after it has come into contact with the intestinal juice. This 



DIGESTION 



39 



enzyme is then called trypsin, and the changes which it pro- 
duces in protein are similar to those produced by pepsin; it 
acts, however, in an alkaline medium. 

The products of tryptic digestion are therefore alkali pro- 
tein, proteoses (albumoses) and peptones. 

The bile plays no significant part in protein digestion, ex- 
cept as it helps to neutralize the chyme. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme called erepsin, 
which completes the digestion of protein, breaking down the 
proteoses and peptones formed by pepsin and trypsin into 
still less complex compounds called amino acids. These are 
the "end-products" of protein digestion. The digestive 
process can go no farther. There are no enzymes acting on 
proteins in the large intestines. 

Summary. The chemical changes in protein during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



PART OP 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OP 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

PROTEIN 


PRODUCTS OP 
ENZYME ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


None 


None 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 


Rennin 


Coagulates milk 






Pepsin and Hy- 
drochloric acid 


["Acid Protein, 
■ Proteoses, 
[Peptones 


Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 


Trypsin (in alka- 
line medium) 


TAlkali Protein, 
■ Proteoses, 
[Peptones 




Bile 


None 


None 




Intestinal Juice 


Erepsin (acts 
only on proteo- 
ses and pep- 
tones) 


Amino Acids 



40 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

SIGESTIOn or FAT 

Fat is not acted upon by the secretions of the mouth nor 
to any great extent by those of the stomach. The gastric 
juice contains an enzyme, called gastric lipase, which has the 
power of acting on emulsified fats, such as in cream or yolk 
of eggs. It plays a more important part in the digestion of 
infants than of adults. 

The presence of fat in the stomach retards the secretion of 
gastric juice. Hence a certain excess of fat in the stomach 
is sufficient to close the pylorus for a longer or shorter time, 
due to the failure of the appearance of free hydrochloric acid. 
This doubtless accounts for the fact that fat in the diet often 
seems to retard and otherwise disturb digestion. 

Digestion of fat takes place mainly in the small intestines. 
The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called steapsin, which 
has the power of emulsifying fats and also of splitting them 
into fatty acids and glycerine. 

The bile contains no such enzymes, but it is nevertheless an 
important factor in the digestion of fat. It has the power of 
increasing greatly the activity of the pancreatic lipase (steap- 
sin), and of holding in solution the fatty acids formed by 
its action, so that they are more perfectly absorbed. When 
bile is lacking, much of the fat fails of absorption and is 
excreted through the intestines. Emulsification is an im- 
portant aid in the splitting of fat into fatty acids and glycer- 
ine, the forms in which fat is chiefly absorbed. 

DIGESTION 07 CARBOHYDRATES 

1. Digestion of Starch. There is little doubt that prim- 
itive man accomplished mudh of the digestion of starch in the 
mouth. The saliva contains two enzymes, ptyalin, and mal- 
tase. By the action of ptyalin starch is changed to dextrins 
and these to maltose; by the action of maltase, maltose is 
converted into dextrose, the end-product of salivary digestion. 
The crude uncooked food required prolonged mastication be- 
fore it could be swallowed, and during this mastication the 
enzymes had opportunity for action. Eaw starch is so very 



DIGESTION 41 

slowly affected by enzymes, that much of the food value of un- 
cooked cereals is lost, so that the practice of baking ground 
grain into bread developed very early. This fact in regard 
to starch digestion is often disregarded by advocates of a re- 
turn to raw foods. 

There is said to be some evidence that a pharyngeal reflex 
once existed which prevented the bolting of foods which are 
capable of salivary digestion, or which are not easily di- 
gestible without mastication. In recent years, Mr. Horace 
Fletcher has counseled a return to prolonged mastication, in 
order that salivary digestion may be carried to its fullest ex- 
tent. It is claimed that the more perfect utilization of all 
food eaten necessitates the taking of a smaller amount. 
There is no doubt that thorough mastication renders the di- 
gestion of starch easier and more complete, but it will not 
greatly alter the total food requirement. 

The starchy food mixed with saliva passes from the mouth 
to the stomach and lodges in the fundus, the portions last 
eaten always going to the center of the mass. Thus, while 
the gastric juice is at work upon the outer layer, attacking 
the protein of the diet, the inner portions remain alkaline for 
a considerable time, so that salivary digestion may continue 
undisturbed. 

From time to time, the soluble products of salivary and 
gastric digestion pass into the small intestine. Here the con- 
version of starch and intermediate products into simple sugars 
is completed. The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called 
amylopsin, which acts like ptyalin, i. e., changes starch to 
"dextrins, and finally to maltose. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme capable of chang- 
ing maltose to dextrose, the final product in starch digestion. 

Summary. The chemical changes in starch during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : - 



42 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PART OF 

ALIMENTAEY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

STARCH 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME 
ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Ptyalin 
Maltase 


fDextrins 
[^Maltose 

Dextrose 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 


None 


• 


Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Amylopsin 
Maltase 


fDextrins 
1 Maltose 

Dextrose 



3. Digestion of Sugars. Although sugars are perfectly 
soluble and easily absorbed, they must all be converted into 
monosaccharides or simple sugars (chiefly dextrose), before 
they can be utilized by the body. Hence we find a number 
of enzymes in the alimentary tract acting upon disaecharides. 
Two of these have already been indicated in discussing the 
digestion of starch, i. e., the maltases of the saliva and in- 
testinal juice, which convert each molecule of maltose into 
two of dextrose. In the stomach, a slight hydrolysis of the 
disaecharides may occur through the influence of the hydro- 
chloric acid. In the intestines, provision is made for their 
complete transformation. Both the pancreatic and intestinal 
juices contain enzymes of this type. In young animals, or' 
older individuals on a milk diet, the pancreatic juice con- 
tains lactase, which converts lactose (milk sugar) into dex- 
trose and galactose. The intestinal juice contains three such 
enzymes, sucrose, acting on sucrose (cane sugar) ; lactase, 
acting on lactose ; and maltase, acting on maltose. 

Summary. The chemical changes in sugar during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



DIGESTION 



43 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

SUGARS 


PRODUCTS 

OF ENZYME 

ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Maltase 


Dextrose 


Small Intestines 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Lactase (at 
times) 

Lactase 

Maltase 

Sucrase 


("Dextrose 
\Galactose 

/Dextrose 
\Galactose 

Dextrose 

TDextrose 
\Levulose 



Mineral Matter and Water require no changes to prepare 
them for absorption. 

RESTTUE OF DIGESTION 

The processes of digestion are both mechanical and chem- 
ical. By mechanical processes the foods are first softened 
and finely divided, so as to be non-irritating to the walls of 
the alimentary tract, and to expose as much surface as pos- 
sible to the action of the digestive enzymes; secondly, they 
are moved along the alimentary tract from time to time, to 
facilitate digestion and absorption, and to expel indigestible 
residues. The movements of the mouth in mastication, of 
the oesophagus in swallowing, and of the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach in mixing the food with the 
gastric juice; the rhythmic and peristaltic movements of the 
small intestines, by which the food is alternately churned in 
a stationary position and then pushed along to a new region 
to repeat the process; and finally, the anti-peristaltic move- 
ments of the first part of the large intestines and the slow 
peristalsis throughout its entire length, form a series of events 
of tremendous importance to the welfare of the organism. 

By chemical processes, complex food-stuffs are converted 
into simpler substances out of which the body can build the 



44 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



compounds essential to its persistence and activity. The di- 
gestive fluids and the enzymes contained therein, with the 
results of their activity, are most readily indicated by the 
following table: 



PART OF 


NAME OF 
SECRETION 


REACTION 


ENZYMES 
PRESENT 


FOOD 


PRODUCTS OF 


ALIMENTARY 
TRACT 


TO 
LITMUS 


PRINCIPLES 
ACTED UPON 


ENZYME 
ACTION 


Moutli 


Saliva 


Alkaline 


Ptyalin 


Starch 


r Soluble 
J starch- 
) Dextrius 
I Maltose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 


Stomach 


Gastric 


Acid 


Pepsin 


Proteins 


f Acid 




Juice 






J Protein 






(0.2%- 






1 Proteoses 






0.4% 






I Peptones 






H CI.) 














Rennin 


Protein 

(especially 
casein of 
milk) 


Coagulated 
Protein 








Lipase 


Emulsified 
Fats 


Fatty acids 
and 
glycerine 


Small 


Pancreatic 


Alkaline 


Trypsin 


Proteins 


f Alkali 


Intestines 


Juice 








J Protein 
I Proteoses 
L Peptones 








Steapsin 


Fats 


r emulsified 

Fat — 
-i Fatty 

acids and 

L glycerine 








Amylopsin 


Starch 


r Soluble 

Starch — 
Dextrins — 
, Maltose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose 








(in young 


(Milk 


and 








animals) 


Sugar) 


. Galactose 




Intestinal 


Alkaline 


Erepsin 


Proteins in 


Amino 




■ Juice 






the form of 
Proteoses 
.and 


Acids 








Sucrase 


Peptones 
Sucrose 


Dextrose and 
Levniose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose and 
Galactose 



The bile contains no important enzymes, but greatly facilitates the diges- 
tion of fats. The intestinal juice contains an enzyme which makes trypsin 
an active enzyme, £nd a substance which helps to stimulate the flow of 
pancreatic juice. 



DIGESTION 45 

Inspection of the table on page 44 shows that there are five 
so-called digestive juices, viz. : saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic 
juice, bile, and intestinal juice. All are produced intermit- 
tently except the bile, which is secreted continuously into the 
gall-bladder and discharged at intervals into the intestine. 
All are alkaline except the gastric juice. All contain power- 
ful enzymes except the bile. Enzymes which digest protein 
occur in the gastric juice (pepsin), the pancreatic juice (tryp- 
sin), and the intestina:! juice (erepsin). Ferments which 
transform starch to sugar occur especially in the saliva and 
pancreatic juices, and are commonly known as diastatic 
enzymes. Ptyalin is an old name for salivary diastase, amy- 
lopsin for pancreatic diastase. 

The principal fat-splitting enzyme occurs in the pan- 
creatic juice, and is known as pancreatic lipase or steapsin. 
Numerous enzymes of minor importance occur in the gastric, 
pancreatic, and intestinal juices. Bile in itself is able to 
emulsify fat as a step toward digestion. 

rACTORS DEIEEMIinNG BATE 0? DIGESTION 

We know of the existence of many factors which influence 
salivary and gastric digestion, but much less about intestinal 
digestion. Among these are the nature of the food, cook- 
ery, appetite, mastication, palatability, mental state, amount 
of fluid in the meal, the pyloric reflexes, etc. The nature of 
the individual plays a powerful role; some individuals can 
subsist almost wholly upon one or a few articles, while others 
quickly revolt against monotony of diet. Idiosyncrasy is 
another important factor; for example, some individuals can- 
not eat mutton, however disguised, while in others sugar is 
so strong a stimulant to peristalsis that it sets up a violent 
diarrhoea. The above being true of presumably healthy peo- 
ple, the factors which may influence digestion in the sick, 
invalid and convalescent must be still more uncertain. 
Hence tables which purport to give the relative digestibility 
of foods must be studied with allowances. We can study this 
problem in test tubes, or by examining the washings from the 



46 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

stomach after definite meals or in fistula patients, but the 
results can hardly be applied forthwith to all persons. 

The direct stimuli to the secretion of saliva are the sight, 
odor or taste of food; or the mechanical irritation produced 
by contact of food-stufEs with the mouth. Indirectly, the 
thought of food may be a psychic stimulus to the flow of 
saliva. Excitement may so check the flow of saliva that it 
is impossible to swallow dry food. 

The stimuli to the secretion of gastric juice are both psychic 
and chemical. Pawlow has demonstrated, in the case of 
dogs, that the sight of food or the chewing of food in the 
mouth may produce a very effective flow of gastric juice, to 
which he attributes great importance in digestion. How im- 
portant this preliminary flow before food enters the stomach 
may be in the case of man has not been very clearly demon- 
strated, but it seems reasonable that the desire for eating, the 
act of eating and the pleasure obtained therefrom exercise 
a favorable influence upon gastric secretion. It has recently 
been shown that the products of salivary digestion act as 
a stimulus to the flow of gastric juice, and that once the 
process of gastric digestion is initiated, the products of pep- 
tic activity cause the continuance of the secretion as long 
as the food remains in the stomach. The mere mechanical 
irritation caused by the presence of food in the stomach is 
ineffective. Thus white of egg will cause no flow. But cer- 
tain substances, such as meat extracts, bitters and condiments, 
promote secretion. The use of meat broths, gelatin jellies, 
peptones (i. e., products of gastric digestion), and toast (con- 
taining dextrins or products of salivary digestion), at the 
beginning of a meal, or to promote feeble gastric digestion in 
an invalid, is therefore a rational practice. 

ABSORPTION 

While absorption through a permeable animal membrane 
outside the body may be a simple physical process, following 
the ordinary laws of pressure, diffusion, osmosis, etc., the case 



ABSORPTION 47 

is far otherwise in the alimentary tract, where the selective 
activity of the living cell becomes a positive factor. The 
pressure in secreting glands rises above blood pressure; sub- 
stances pass inward to the body through the mucous mem- 
brane without a corresponding movement in the opposite di- 
rection. Thus blood serum, placed in a loop of intestine is 
promptly absorbed, but if the loop be siirrounded with serum, 
it does not pass in a similar manner into the lumen of the 
section of intestine. 

The stomach is not primarily an absorbing organ, but a few 
substances, such as sugars and peptones, pass to a limited 
extent through its walls. The most important seat of absorp- 
tion is the small intestine, and second, the large intestine. 
Absorption in the small intestine is affected through the in- 
numerable little projections with which the intestine is lined, 
known as villi, which greatly extend the amount of surface. 
These villi contain a capillary network and a so-called lac- 
teal space. The capillaries by converging into larger vessels 
eventually form the portal vein which passes through the 
liver. The lacteal spaces are prolonged into lymphatic ves- 
sels which similarly converge to form the thoracic duct. The 
lacteals are intended almost wholly for the absorption of the 
fats, all other digestive products passing through the liver 
before reaching the general circulation. 

Absorption continues throughout the length of the large 
intestine, being especially flavored by antiperistalsis in the 
upper portions. Constipation sometimes results from the 
great absorptive power of this region, the feces being left dry 
and hard and hence difficult to evacuate. 

Absorption of Protein. This question still continues to be 
a riddle. At some point, either in the intestinal walls and 
villi or blood vessels, or in the blood itself, the amino acids 
formed in digestion are united to form body protein. We do 
not know how or where this transformation occurs. It is 
certain that a small amount of humanized albumin reaches 
the blood through the thoracic duct. The rest must enter the 
portal circulation and pass through the liver into the general 



48 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

blood stream. The end products of peptic digestion seldom 
are found in the blood, and when present, tend to pass at once 
into the urine. When food albumin for any reason enters 
the blood, it does not act as blood albumin, but is at once 
excreted by the kidneys as a poison. Proteoses and peptones 
behave similarly. As animals may be made to live in health 
on a diet of end products alone, we know that these repre- 
sent the utilizable portion of food albumin. 

Absorption of Fat. It is now commonly believed that fat 
is absorbed in the form of the end products of its digestion, 
i. e., fatty acids and glycerine, and that somewhere in the 
intestinal wall these are recombined into neutral fat. It is 
possible that some of the finely emulsified fat is able to pass 
unchanged through the intestinal wall. In either case, mi- 
nute fat droplets pass into the lacteals, and finally into the 
blood stream by way of the thoracic duct. A small portion 
finds its way directly into the blood. 

Pats having a low melting point are absorbed more quickly 
than solid fats, and pure fat more readily than fat inter- 
mingled with other food principles, as in fat meat, for ex- 
ample. 

Absorption of Carbohydrates. The end products of carbo- 
hydrate digestion pass to the blood by way of the portal sys- 
tem. The monosaccharides on reaching the liver enter the 
general circulation as dextrose if required for immediate use ; 
otherwise they are stored in the liver in the form of glycogen, 
which can be again transformed into sugar when demanded 
by the system to furnish energy. Sugars are so readily ab- 
sorbed that if taken in large quantities the body may be un- 
able to utilize them, and the excess is excreted in the urine. 
This is especially true in case of an excess of cane sugar or 
milk sugar. They may be absorbed before digestion, and 
there are no enzymes in the blood capable of converting them 
into dextrose so that they can be burned or stored. Under 
such circumstances they are useless and must be gotten rid of. 
If maltose is absorbed too rapidly, it may still be changed to 
dextrose by enzymes in the blood or tissues, and so be utilized. 



ABSORPTION 49 

Absorption of Mineral Mailer. As salts are not digested 
in the ordinary sense of the word, they require nothing more 
than solution in the digestive fluids before absorption. The 
mineral matter is set free from food and diffuses more or less 
rapidly into the surrounding fluids. Common salt is most 
quickly absorbed. The chief locality for absorption is the 
small intestines. The older text books taught that salts 
were absorbed only by diffusion through the intestinal wall, 
which required that another solution must at the same time 
pass from the blood to the intestines until both fluids were 
of the same degree of concentration. It appears, however, 
that in the main, mineral matter is taken up in the intestinal 
wall without diffusion, and as fast as it can be incorporated 
with certain peculiar solvents is absorbed into the blood. 

Absorption of Water. Water is not absorbed by the stom- 
ach, but passes quickly in little spurts (if taken alone) into 
the intestines. Here it is very rapidly absorbed; it may be 
excreted through the kidneys within twenty minutes after 
ingestion. The rapidity of absorption may be considerably 
influenced by mineral matter dissolved in the water. 

Summary. Absorption is an active, not a passive process. 
It takes place mainly in the intestines, the larger part before 
the food reaches the i\eo-cecal valve. 

Proteins are absorbed by the villi, chiefly in the form of 
amino acids and pass through the portal vein to the liver. 

Pats are absorbed by the lacteals, chiefly in the form of 
fatty acids and glycerine, but pass to the lymphatics as neu- 
tral fat, and enter the blood stream from the thoracic duct. 

Carbohydrates are absorbed by the villi in the form of su- 
gar (chiefly dextrose) and pass through the portal vein to 
the liver. 

Unabsorbed material forms the feces (see Excretion, page 
53). Undigested proteins, fats and carbohydrates are liable 
to attack by putrefactive and fermentative organisms in the 
intestines. The products of such bacterial action are absorbed 
to a considerable extent. Carbohydrates which escape diges- 
tion tend to produce lactic and other acids. This fermenta- 



50 PRACTICAL DlETETiqS 

tion is not altogether an evil, for it checks the putrefaction 
of undigested meat. The latter is undesirable, as the products 
are likely to prove toxic. It is for this reason that lactic acid, 
especially in the form of buttermilk and artificially fermented 
sour milk, is largely employed as a remedial agent in intes- 
tinal indigestion. 

METABOnSM 

Metabolism is the sum of the chemical changes taking place 
in the cells of the body in connection with all biological 
processes, including growth, repair and waste, generation and 
maintenance of heat, all manifestations of functional activity, 
storage of surplus nutriment, etc. It comprises two phases, 
anabolism and katabolism. 

Anabolism embraces the changes involved in the upbuilding 
of the cells, and corresponds in a general way to nutrition. 
Assimilation is the selective act of the cells in appropriating 
the special form of nutriment in the circulating blood which 
is suited for their needs. The special phases of anabolism 
comprise the assimilation of nitrogen for growth and repair 
of protoplasm, the storage of a certain amount of fat and 
•carbohydrate, the assimilation of oxygen for maintenance of 
heat and functional activity, and the retention of inorganic 
salts in the bones and other tissues. 

Katabolism comprises the changes involved in the contin- 
uous molecular waste of the cells; in the constant oxidation 
^oing on in the tissues; in the maintenance of animal heat; 
in the exercise of muscular, nervous and secretory activity; 
and perhaps in the breaking up of protein into oxidizable 
•carbohydrates and nitrogenous waste products. We speak 
Jess of the acts of katabolism than of the products of katabo- 
lism, which are a measure of those acts. The chief of these 
products are: (1) urea, the chief form of excretion of ni- 
irogen, and (3) carbon dioxide and water, which represent 
the products of energy-yielding oxidations. 

Elimination is the escape or expulsion of the, products of 



METABOLISM 51 

katabolism from the tissues into the blood, and corresponds 
to disassimilation or denutrition. Excretion is the final ex- 
pulsion of the end products of katabolism from the excretory 
organs and includes the expulsion of unabsorbed aliment by 
the bowel. 

In the case of certain products of metabolism, it is hardly 
possible to state positively whether they represent anabolism 
or katabolism. Here belong especially the substances formed 
• in connection with secretion, as the digestive enzymes, the 
hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the iodothyrin of the 
thyroid gland and the adrenalin of the suprarenal gland. In. 
all likelihood both factors participate, for certain substances 
must be assimilated from the food to form these bodies which 
in turn are set free in the blood. It is also true that some 
of these substances act by their mere presence, without ap- 
parent waste (catalytic action). 

Metabolism of Protein. A relatively small proportion of 
protein is normally disposed of by oxidation for energy-forma- 
tion, when carbohydrates and fats enter fully into the ditt. 
But in their absence, protein, by virtue of the fact that it con- 
tains the elements of carbohydrates and fats (carbon, hydro- 
gen and oxygen) in its molecule, can furnish all the heat and. 
force required. Certain savages subsist wholly on meat and 
remain in good health, and in the so-called Salisbury treat- 
ment of obesity, etc., it can be demonstrated at will that a 
patient may subsist for weeks on raw beef without apparent 
detriment, provided plenty of water is drunk, the excess of 
water aiding in the elimination of unutilized protein. 

When absorbed protein reaches the liver, a large part of the 
nitrogen is split off and excreted as urea. The remaining' 
portion goes to make good the small daily waste of body*" 
protein. The portion of the protein molecule left after the 
nitrogen is split off is available as fuel. When carbohydrates 
and fats are liberally supplied, so that protein is not required 
for fuel, the daily amount needed is comparatively small. 
Even when the body is losing nitrogen rapidly, as in certain 
fevers, it has been found that this is partly because the body 



53 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

protein is being nsed as fuel, and the loss can be largely 
prevented by furnishing more energy in the form of carbo- 
hydrate or fat. Much confusion has arisen because the excess 
of nitrogen in the diet is to some extent identical in form 
with the waste products of cellular activity. Besides urea, 
some of the chief nitrogenous products of protein metabolism 
are ammonium salts, uric acid, creatin and creatinin. 

The non-nitrogenous portion of protein may be burned or 
possibly stored, but the nitrogen excess must be eliminated.. 
/Because of the fact that excess of nitrogen throws work on the 
llcidneys, it is assumed that an excessive protein diet is injuri- 
ous to the integrity of these organs. This is evident in dis- 
eased kidneys, but cannot be proved for healthy organs. 
However, it seems unnecessary to consume a great excess of 
protein and perhaps un\Wse, owing to the great frequency of 
fatal kidney diseases. At any rate, except where protein is 
specially advantageous for ease of digestion, it is unnecessary 
yto make it a large part of the diet. 

Metabolism of Fat. Fat, which is passed into the blood 
from the thoracic duct, is carried over the body and deposited 
in many organs and tissues, unless needed for immediate use 
as a source of energy, in which case it is oxidized to carbon 
•dioxide and water. It has been shown that diet-fat may be 
•deposited in the body in the same form as eaten, but the 
readiest means of forming body fat is usually to give an 
■excess of carbohydrate. The ease with which carbohydrates 
form fat is shown in the case of cows which produce large 
quantities of butter fat on an herbivorous diet. It is also 
possible to form fat from protein, but it is diflBcult, as a con- 
siderable part of the energy of the protein molecule goes to 
get rid of the nitrogen, and protein increases the rate of metab- 
olism. We know very little of the details of fat metabolism. 
Some investigators hold that it must be converted into dex- 
trose before it can be oxidized. As already stated, an excess 
of carbohydrate may be stored in the form of fat. 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates. The blood maintains a con- 
stant sugar content of about 1.5 per cent. As fast as this 



EXCRETION 53 

sugar is oxidized, it is replaced by more from the store of 
glycogen in the liver and muscles, or from newly-formed 
sugar of recently digested food. The final products of carbo- 
hydrate oxidation are carbon dioxide and water, but several 
intermediate products (as lactic acid) are first formed, prob- 
ably by the action of enzymes. 

When the body is unable to store any more carbohydrate as 
glycogen, all further storage of excess is in the form of fat. 

When sugar is lacking in the blood, as in starvation or 
failure to utilize carbohydrates, the sugar coHt^t is main- 
tained at the expense of protein. This explains why the dia- 
betic who is eating no carbohydrate, may still excrete sugar 
in the urine. There is some experimental evidence that su- 
gar may be formed also from fat. At any rate, fat is oxidized 
in absence of carbohydrate, and whether it is first changed to 
sugar, or oxidized directly, it is a compact means of storing 
energy, since one gram of fat will yield 214 times as much 
as an equal amount of protein or carbohydrate. 

EXCRETION 

The waste products of metabolism and all unutilized food, 
along with the products of oxidation, are eliminated from the 
system in several ways. Water escapes through the lungs, 
skin and kidneys. Aside from- the obvious fluid perspiration, 
a steady evaporation takes place from the skin (insensible 
perspiration). The carbon dioxide produced by oxidation 
escapes by the lungs, and nitrogenous products of protein me- 
tabolism by the urine. The feces are made up chiefly of the 
residues of food, but also contain biliary matters and other 
products of the body. When there is excessive putrefaction 
of the fecal matter, some of the soluble material is absorbed 
and elinlinated in the urine. Generally speaking, putrefac- 
tion (of nitrogenous food) and fermentation (of carbohy- 
drates) hold each other in check. It is known that fasting 
and starving people pass some feces, thus showing that the 
bowel is a true excretory organ. 



CHAPTEE III 

FOOD VALUES 
NITROGEN BAIANCE — ENERGY VALUE OF FOOD 

We are now in position to understand something of food 
"values, which depend on the food actually utilized in the body, 
to the exclusion of food unabsorbed, or eliminated because in 
excess of the demands of the system. Energy-yielding ma- 
terial which is not used at the time may be stored, but be- 
yond a certain point, stored nutriment must be regarded as 
undesirable, as in obese subjects. 

As stated by Atwater, the food supplies body wants in five 
■ways: (1) tissue-building, (2) tissue-repairing, (3) storage 
for future use, (4) oxidation to maintain animal heat and (5) 
oxidation to supply energy; or we may say that according to 
function, foods are classified as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. (See page 5.) 

NITROGEN BAIANCE OR NITROGEN EQUILIBRIUM 

In body building and repairing, the nitrogen of protein 
food is indispensable. In the other functions, nitrogen is not 
utilized. Carbohydrates and fats are the natural and con- 
venient sources of energy, although the protein contains in 
itself non-nitrogenous material capable of oxidation. As al- 
ready stated, however, to depend largely upon protein for 
oxidizable food means the ingestion of an enormous 'quantity 
of unnecessary nitrogen, the getting rid of which involves 
Tvaste of energy and is thought to necessitate a strain upon 
the excretory system. Furthermore, when the diet consists 
chiefly of protein, much of the latter may not be digested and 
absorbed as such, but may remain in the intestine, there to 

54 



NITROGEN BALANCE 55 

undergo putrefactive changes. In the course of putrefactiou 
certain soluble poisonous substances form and are absorbed, 
requiring elimination by the kidneys. The excess of nitrogen 
wJiich cannot be- utilized in tissue repair must also be elimi- 
nated by the kidneys. Thus while people may thrive on a, 
diet rich in protein, there is considerable evidence that vital- 
ity, endurance and resistance to disease are better attained 
with a diet in which the fuel foods (carbohydrates and fats) 
predominate. 

Nitrogen cannot be stored to any extent and is constantly 
eliminated in the urine as urea and other nitrogenous sub- 
stances. When the diet-nitrogen corresponds in amount with 
the eliminated nitrogen, the metabolism of nitrogen is bal- 
anced, or in a state of equilibrium. If too small a quantity 
of nitrogenous food is taken it does not compensate for the 
waste of body nitrogen which is inseparable from life. The 
same thing occurs when for any reason the food nitrogen is 
not absorbed, or is eliminated without being utilized. This 
condition of nitrogen starvation is characteristic of under- 
feeding, wasting diseases, defective assimilation, etc. Con- 
versely equilibrium between food nitrogen and excreted ni- 
trogen represents good nutrition, health and energy ; for while 
nitrogen cannot be permanently stored, it is possible for a 
balance to be maintained over long periods. It was once 
taught that increased elimination of nitrogen was due chiefly 
to the waste of tissue incidental to prolonged and severe 
muscular or nervous efEort; at a later period, however, it be- 
came apparent that this waste was comparatively little, and 
constant for the individual regardless of the amount of muscu- 
lar exercise, so that the urea nitrogen depends chiefly on the 
amount of diet nitrogen. The loss of nitrogen in wasting 
disease, starvation, etc., is, however, extensive ; so that in con- 
valescence the body is able to store some nitrogen. 

Nitrogen retention is greatly facilitated in all cases by a 
liberal supply of carbohydrates and fats. 

Nitrogen metabolism can hardly be studied in the ordinary 
patient, on account of the number and variety of tests which 



56 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

must be accurately made, so that our only guide is the results 
of scientific investigation of the amounts of nitrogen required 
Tinder given conditions, and the general well-being of the 
subject. If weight is maintained, along with a healthy state 
of functions, the ration in question is suitable for the sub- 
ject tested. If the individual be in the growing period, the 
ration should be such that the growth rate is normal. If 
he be a convalescent, the recovery of the original weight should 
be constantly progressive. Of late years, however, the em- 
phasis on nitrogen values alone has been largly superseded 
by greater attention to total fuel values as being of greater 
practical worth. It is known that a relatively small and 
easily obtained quantity of nitrogen is sufficient to repair waste 
in the average individual, but the food required for producing 
energy is very significant in amount. With a liberal supply 
of carbohydrates and fats, the ordinary daily waste of nitrogen 
in one adult may be reduced as low as 3 to 4 grams daily 
(corresponding to 20 to 25 grams of protein). 

To insure a full supply of nitrogen, and to maintain ni- 
trogen equilibrium at a higher level than the bare maintenance 
requirement, considerably more than this amount is commonly 
taken. From 80 to 100 grams of protein per day is re- 
garded as a liberal supply for an average man (weighing 70 
kilograms or 154 lbs.) on an ordinary mixed diet of suitable 
energy value. 

THE ENEHGY VAITIE OF FOOD 

In Liebig's time it was recognized that animal heat was 
generated by carbohydrates and fats, but the physiologists of 
that day did not realize that these were the nutrients which 
furnished the body with energy for its activity. They 
thought that all muscular work was done at the expense of 
nitrogenous material. It has taken many years for us to 
realize fully that- animal energy in all its forms is derived 
primarily from carbohydrate material, secondly from fats, and 
thirdly from proteins only in so far as they yield combustible, 
Bon-nitrogenous bodies. 



ENERGY VALUE 57 

Energy may be defined as the power to do work. This 
force manifests itself in different ways. It may be latent, 
or inactive; or it may be active in various forms, such as 
heat; chemical or electrical energy; or mechanical movement, 
which we call work. It may be changed from one of these 
forms into another without loss. The most convenient way to 
measure energy is by transforming it into heat. A unit has 
been devised to express different amounts of heat, correspond- 
ing to a definite number of work units; this is called the 
calorie. One calorie represents the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water one degree 
Centigrade. This is called the large calorie, which is com- 
monly used in determining the energy value of food. The 
small calorie is Thu of a large calorie. 

Energy cannot be created. We must put into any machine 
as much force as we expect to get from it. Even in the most 
efficient machine we cannot recover all of the energy in the 
form of useful work; some of it is always transformed into 
heat, owing to friction. This is true even in the body, which 
is a most efReient machine, but here much of the waste energy 
in the form of heat is turned to good account in maintaining 
the body temperature. 

The source of energy for the body is food, just as much as 
the source of energy for the engine is coal. Plants store up 
the sun's energy, it is transferred to animals which eat the 
plants, and eventually man gets it by eating the plant and 
animal foods. The amount of energy in any given food ma- 
terial is measured by the amount of heat which it will pro- 
duce. In general, this is the same, whether the food be 
burned outside or inside the body, the total result in any case 
depending upon the amount of the food-stuff which is utilized 
by the body. 

An instrument devised for the measurement of heat is 
called a calorimeter. To determine the fuel value of any 
food material outside of the body, a given amount is placed 
in a calorimeter, where it is burned in an atmosphere of pure 
oxygen, in a vessel surrounded by water. The heat generated 



58 PB ACTIO AL DIETETICS 

raises the temperature of the water, and the change is ob- 
served with a very delicate thermometer. From this the 
total heat evolved is calculated. To determine the fuel value 
of this material within the body, the average amount which 
is lost in digestion, or which is not completely oxidized before 
excretion, is deducted from the fuel value outside the body. 
The result is the physiological fuel value. Many years ago, 
Eubner determined averages for proteins, fats, and carbohy- 
drates from experiments on dogs. In recent times, further 
experiments made in this country on human subjects by Prof. 
Atwater and his associates have modified these factors some- 
what. The following are therefore accepted as the average 
energy values of food in the body to-day : 

1 gram of Protein yields 4 Calories 

1 gram of Fat yields 9 Calories 

1 gram of Carbohydrate . . . yields 4 Calories 

BETERUINATION 01" ENERGY VALUE OF FOOD 

To determine the energy value of a given amount of any 
food, it is necessary to know first its composition, i. e., the 
percentages of protein, fat, and carbohydrate present. Tables 
are available giving the results of many analyses, as in Bulle- 
tin 28, Office of Experiment Station, United States Dept. of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C, "The Chemical Composi- 
tion of American Food Materials." 

Second. From these percentages to determine the weight 
of protein fat and carbohydrate in grams, which can be ob- 
tained from a given amount of the food material. 

Third. To multiply these weights by the energy value of 
one gram of each of the three food principles. 

By way of illustration let us find the fuel value of one loaf 
of bread, weighing 13 ounces. 

(1) By referring to Bulletin 28, we find that white bread 
(miscellaneous) yields on the average, 

9.3 % protein. 
1.2 % fat. 
52.7 % carbohydrate. 



ENERGY VALUE 59 

(3) To get the weight of protein, fat and carbohydrate in 
grams, we must first convert the total weight of bread into 
grams, 

1 oz. = 28.35 grams. 
12 oz. = 340.2 grams. 
Then 340.2 X 0.093 = 31.64 grams of protein. 
340.2 X 0.012 = 4.08 grams of fat. 
340.2 X 0.527 = 179.28 grams of carbohydrate. 

(3) Multiplying the amount of each nutrient by the proper 
factor, 

31.64 grams protein X 4 = 126.56 Calories 

4.08 grams fat X 9 = 36.72 Calories 

179.28 grams carbohydrate X 4:= 717.12 Calories 

Total 880.40 Calories 

Hence the total energy value of 1 loaf of bread weighing 12 
ounces is 880.4 calories. 

To calculate the total energy value of any combination of 
foods, it is necessary to compute the fuel value of each in- 
gredient, and take the sum of the whole group. 

Thus for Egg Broth, page 118, it is necessary first to get 
the weight in grams of each of the following ingredients and 
then to estimate their energy value as indicated above. 

Yolk of 1 egg = 13 grams. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 15 grams. 

1 cup milk V = 244 grams. 

1 tablespoon brandy '^13=, 14 grams. 

In this book the food values of all the materials used have 
been incorporated into a table, so that by reference to this 
the value of any combination is quickly made. 

Yolk of 1 egg = 48. Calories. 

1 tablespoon sugar = -^0 Calories. 

1 cup milk = 169 Calories. 

1 tablespoon brandy i =: 42 Calories. 

Total energy value 319 Calories. 

*The energy value of alcohol is 7 calories per gram. It is necessary, 
therefore, to know the per cent, of alcohol in any liquor. 



60 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

To estimate the fuel value of any diet, it is simply necessary 
to compute the food value of each food material used and add 
the results together. 

To estimate the fuel value of an infant's diet, the following 
formula, adapted to the above factors for energy value from 
Friedenwald and Euhrah's Diet in Health and Disease, is 
very convenient. 

Formula for calculating the Calories of Any Period of 
Infant Feeding: 

( 1 ) Quantity X F X 2.C5 — Calories from fat. 

(2) Quantity X (S + P) X 1.18 = Calories from protein and sugar. 

The sum of 1 and 2 gives the total calories. 

Quantity = 24-hour amount in ounces. F, S and P =^ 
fat, sugar, and protein respectively, with pereents in whole 
numbers. 

To illustrate, take a formula of the following composition: 

Protein 0.7% 

Fat 2.7% 

Carbohydrates 0.0% 

Feedings per day 9, amount at each finding I14 oz. 

Hence Q = 13.5 oz. (9 X I'/s) 
F= 2.7 oz. 
S= 6 oz. 
P= 0.7 oz. 

(1) Q. X P X 2.65 = 13.5 X 2.7 X 2.65 = 96.6 Cal. 

(2) Q. X (S + P) X 1.18 = 13.5 X (6 + 0.7) X 1.18 = 106.7 Cal. 

96.6 + 106.7 = 203.3 Cal., total for day. 

THE ENERGY REatTIREMENTS OF THE BODY 

Work goes on continually in the living body, whether asleep 
or awake, idle or active, sick or well. In the resting body it 
consists of such internal work as that of digestion and absorp- 
tion, circulation, respiration, muscular tension, and intracellu- 
lar work. 

In youth these f unctioi)s are more active than in adult life ; 
in old age they are somewhat less active. 



ENERGY REQUIREMENT 61 

For a man of average weight (154 lbs. or 70 kg.) from 
1600 to 2000 cal. daily are required to supply energy for 
these internal activities. Children require somewhat more in 
proportion to their body weight, aged persons somewhat less. 
Beyond this, the factor of most significance in determining the 
total food requirement for any individual is the amount of 
■muscular activity. A man requiring 100 cal. per hour at 
rest may by hard work raise his energy requirement as high 
as 500 or 600 cal. per hour. Por this reason a person en- 
gaged in a sedentary occupation needs less food than one 
whose work is physical, as a farmer or lumberman. Children 
are usually more active than adults, and hence in proportion 
to their weight require more food, while inactive aged per- 
sons require very little. 

Averages obtained from many observations on the amount 
of food consumed by individuals under different conditions, 
show that the energy requirement of the active man of 70 
kgs. body weight is approximately 3000 calories. 

In making estimates for any individual, age, weight, size 
and shape, season and climate, mechanical efficiency, etc., 
must be considered as well as muscular activity. 

During the early months of life, children require about 100 
cal. per kilogram of body weight. Throughout the years of 
childhood, they need about 80 calories per kilogram. The 
adult moderately active, 35-40 cal. per kilogram, and the 
very aged, about 27 cal. per kilogram. 

" The following table, computed by Eubner, shows the daily 
heat consumption, in units of heat (calories) in an adult, 
weighing 65 kilograms or 140 lbs." 

During rest in bed . . 1800 calories or 28 Cal. per kilogram. 

In repose 2100 calories or 32 Cal. per kilogram. 

In light work 2300 calories or 33 Cal. per kilogram. 

In moderate work.. 2600 calories or 40 Cal. per kilogram. 

In hard work 3100 calories or 48 Cal. per kilogram. 

The total energy requirement for individuals under differ- 
ent conditions of age, weight, and activity are approximately 
as indicated in the following table: 



62 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ENERGY PER DAT 
CONDITIONS IN CALORIES 

Man at light work 2500-2800 Cal. 

Man at moderate work 3000-3500 Cal. 

Man at very hard work 4000-5000 Cal, 

Woman at light work 1800-2400 Cal. 

Woman at moderate work 2400-2800 Cal. 

Child from two to six 1200-1800 Cal. 

Child from six to fifteen 1800-2500 Cal. 

Aged Man 1800-2000 Cal. 

Aged Woman 1000-1800 Cal. 

The most convenient means of calculating the energy value 
is afforded by the following table, determined for the adult 
man of average weight. 

AVERAGE NORMAL OUTPUT OF HEAT FROM THE BODY 

AVERAGE 
CONDITIONS OF MUSCULAR ACTIVITy CALORIES PER 

HOUR 

Man at rest, sleeping 65 Calories 

Man at rest, awake, sitting up 100 Calories 

Man at light muscular exercise 170 Calories 

Man at moderately active muscular exercise . . 290 Calories 

Man at severe muscular exercise 450 Calories 

Man at very severe muscular exercise 600 Calories 

To illustrate the use of this table, let us calculate the 
energy requirement of a woman weighing 130 lbs., under 
the following conditions : 

Sleeps 9 hours 9 X 65 = 585 Cal. 

Works at desk 8 hours 8 X 100 = 800 Cal. 

Walks or does light exercise 3 hrs 3 X 170=: 510 Cal. 

Keads or sits quietly sewing 4 hrs 4 X 100 ^400 Cal. 

2295 Cal. 

Since these factors are for a man weighing 154 lbs., for a 
•woman of 120 lbs. under above conditions, reduce this pro- 
portionately to her weight, 

154 : 120 : : 2295 : X 

X := 1788 cal. — total energy requirement for 
a woman of 120 lbs., under the above conditions. 



ENERGY REQUIREMENT 63 

The protein requirement is conveniently estimated by pro- 
Tiding 10-13 per cent, of the day's energy in the form of 
protein. Thus for a man whose energy requirement is 3000 
cal. per day, 360 cal. from protein (13 per cent.) would 
correspond to 90 grams of protein, which would be a fairly 
liberal allowance. 

A tall thin person requires more food than a short fat 
person of equal weight. Also, the person of nervous tern- 
permanent, in whom muscular tension is high, may require 
more food than one of phlegmatic temperament. More en- 
ergy is lost in the form of heat in cold weather than in warm. 
Because of the numerous factors involved in any case, it is 
possible to calculate the absolute energy requirement only 
by rigid scientific experiment. The tables given above, how- 
ever, are a useful guide to the approximate amount of food 
required by different individuals. 

As an aid to easy estimation of the food value of any diet, 
the following tables have been introduced, showing the nutri- 
tive value of the food materials used in the recipes in this 
book, calculated for the quantities commonly required in 
cooking for individuals. 

The values for larger amounts will be easily obtained by 
simple multiplication. 



64 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



TABLE SHOWING THE NUTRITIVE VAIUE OF THE FOOD MA- 
TERIALS 1TSEB IN THE RECIPES IN THIS BOOK, GALCU- 
LATED FOR THE QUANTITIES COUUONLY REdUIREB IN 
COOKING SHALL PORTIONS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



I 



I 



> 



A 

Almonds, Shelled 

Apples, Fresh 

« Dried 

Apricots, Dried 

Arrowroot 

Asparagus 

B 
Bacon 

Bananas 

Barley, Pearl 

" Crushed 

Flour 

a a 

Bass, (edible portion) 

li u u 

Beans, String 

Beef Broth 

Beef Juice 

Beef Marrow 

U tl 

Beet Steak, Porterhouse. . 

u u « 

" " Rump 

u a a 

" SIrloinV.V.'";! 
" " Top of Round 



1 cup 

1 medium 
1 cup 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 bunch 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 medium 

1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 

1 serving 
1 quart 

1 serving 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 



Ozs. 
5.6 



5+ 
3 



44(2K 
lbs.) 



Gms. 

160 

150 

85 

142 

14+ 
1247 



0.6 


18 


16 


4S4 


m 


100 


1 


27 


^ 


14+ 


v,-\- 


16 


8 


227 


m 


100 


16 


454 


4 


113 


m 


100 


32 


907 


3H 


JOO 


V, 


14.1 


16 


454 


IV, 


100 


16 


454 


■W 


100 


16 


4.S4 


3H 


100 


16 


454 


3K 


100 


16 


454 



Gms. 
33.6 



0.5 
1.4 



22.4 



1.6 
43 

0.8 

2.2 
1.1 
1.3 
19.0 

18.6 
84.3 



10.3 
93.4 



4.9 



9.92 

19.1 
86.6 
21.0 
94.8 
16.5 
74.8 
19.5 
88.45 



Gms. 
87.8 



0.5 
1.8 



1.4 



10.4 
269.4 

0.4 

0.3 
0.1 
0.2 
2.5 

2.8 
12.6 

0.3 

0.3 
2.7 



420.8 

18.0 
81.2 
13.7 
62.1 
16.1 
73.0 
7.3 
33.1 



Gms. 

27.7 

16 
56. 2 

88.5 

13.8 

41.0 



Calor- 
Us 

1035 

70 
247 ' 

354 

5S 

276 



lOO 
2597 

64 

90 
51 
57 
796 

lOO 
452 



44 
39S 

25 

120 

382& 

23g 
1077 
207 
93S 
211 
957 
144 
652' 



ESTIMATEb OF FOOD VAlom^o 



65 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



B— (Continued) 
Blue Fish, (edible portion) . 



Brandy 

Bran 

Brazil Nuts, Shelled., 



Bread, White. 



Crumbs (dry). 
Boston Brown. 

a u 

Gum Gluten. . . 



Butter. , 



Carrots 

Cauliflower. . 

Celery 

Cheese, American . 



Cottage. . 
Creamed. , 



(fresh grated) . 



Chicken, (edible portion) . 
Chocolate, (unsweetened) . 



Clams, (edible portion) . 
Clam Bouillon 



Claret (10% Alcohol ) 

Cocoa 

Cod, Fresh, (edible portion). 
Cod Fish, Salt, Boneless! .... 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

lib. 
1 nut 
1 tbsp. 
chopped 

1 slice 
lloaf 
1 cup 
1 small 
slice 
1 slice 
lloaf 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 small 
1 serving 
1 serving 

1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

1 serving 

2 tbsp. 
(IM cubic 

inch) 
1 serving 
lib. 

1 square 
lib. 

1 serving 
1 serving 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 

I tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 



314 
16 

H 

2H 
16 



1 

12 

1 

1 

13 

M 



2.0 

4.0 

2.0 

H 
1 
1 

8 



3}4 
16 

1 
16 

32 



16 
2 
16 



Gms. 

100 
454 

14+ 

71 

454 



28.4 
340 
136 

28.4 

28.4 

386.5 

14+ 
227 



57 

113 

57 

IS 

28.4 
28 
23 

100 
454 

28.4 
454 

100 
100 
906 

14 

7+ 

100 

454 

57 

454 



Gms. 



19.4 
87.8 



76.94 
1.20 



2.6 
31.6 
12.6 

1.5 
8.4 
114 

0.1 
2.2 



0.5 
2.0 



4'.0 
8.0 
5.9 
6.1 



21.4 
97.5 

3.65 
58.5 

8.6 
2 
2.0 






I 



Gms. Gms. 



1.2 

5.44 



3.0 

16.5 
74.8 
15.7 
125.6 



302.88 
4.74 



0.3 
4.1 
1.6 

0.5 

.30 
4. 

12.1 
193 



5.0 
10.0 
0.28 
8.1 



2.5 
11.3 



13.8 
220.9 



1.0 
O.k 



4.1 

0.4 
1.8 
0.2 
1.4 



43.4 



31.68 
0.05| 



Calor- 
ies 



88 
401 



42 
218 



3048 
47.6 



0.15 142.1 



73 

881 • 
352 

64' 

70.3 

957.2 

109 
1744 



20 
35 
6 

62 
124 

31 
100 



108 
492 

173 
2772 

51 
2 

23 

10 
70 

70 
315 

64 
SIS 



15.0 
179.3 
71.7 


13.3 

8.5 

116.3 


4.2 


S.2 


1.4 


'i'2 
0.5 



8.59 
137.4 

2.0 
0.2 
1.6 



m 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 

(Uncooked) 



C — (Continued) 
Condensed Milk, Eagle Brand... 



Consomme.. 



Corn , 

Cornmeal . , 



Cornstarch., 



Cracker Crumbs., 
Crackers, Water.. 



Cream, Thin (18%).. 
Thick (40%)".' 



Cucumbers, Fresh (edible port'n). 



Currants, Fresh.. 
Dried. 






Dates 

Dry Peptonoids, Soluble. 

E 



Eggs, whole average size (without 

shell) 

Eggs, White 

" Yolk 



Farina. 



Figs'. . 



1 teaspoon 

1 can 

1 serving 
1 quart 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cup 
1 large 

1 tbsp, 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 cup 
1 cup 



1 cup (with 
stones) 
1 tbsp. 



Filberts, Shelled.. 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

Ifig 
H&. 

lib. 
1 doz. 
1 tbsp. 
fchopped) 



Ozs. 

.388 
1 
16 

3}i 
32 



5 

sii 

5+ 

H 

H 
g 

8 

1 

5 
8 






H 



Gms. 

11 

28.35 
450 

100 
906 



10 

142 

10 

156 

151 
10 

14 
227 

14 
227 

28.4 

142 
227 



227 
159 



10 
170 



28.4 
227 



454 



Gms. 

0.88 

2.27 

36.33 

2.5 
10.0 

7.9 

0.8 
13.0 



16.5 

1.2 

0.4 
5.6 
0.3 
4.99 

23 

2.12 
5.44 



4.0 
6 



5.4 
3.3 
2.1 



1.0 
18.7 

1.3 
9.7 

70.72 
3.3 
2.21 



Gms. 

1.057 

2.72 

43.79 



3.4 



0.2 
2.6 



9.0 
0.5 

2.8 
41.9 

6.0 
90.7 

.06 



pQ-O 



Gms. 

6.07 

15.66 

250.60 

C.4 
1.6 

53.9 

7.1 
106.8 

9.5 
197.4 

110.2 
7.6 

0.7 
10.2 
0.5 
6.8 



I 



Calor- 
ies 

3S.25 

98. S9 

1579.33 

12 
46 



34 

504 



.89 



0.1 
2.3 

0.1 
0.7 

296.16 
13.89 
9.26 



160.1 
8 



7.2 
129.8 

22.2 
168.2 

58.88 
2.76 
1.84 



38 
790 

588 
40 

29 

440 
57 
864 



81 

728 



710 

57 



34 
616 

95 
718] 

3184 
ISO 
100 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALVES 



67 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 






F — (Continued) 
Flour, Barley 

" Gum Gluten 

a a « 

" Graham 

a ** 

« Rice v.'"";]!!!;;! 

(I « 

" Rye .'.'.'. 

" Wheat (Rolier Process) 

a u <i « 

Fowl, (edible portion) 

(1 u a 

Q 

Gelatin, Granulated 

It it 

Shredded..'.'.'.'"!!'.!! 
Gum Gluten Flour 

a u a 

" " Bread!!!!!!!!!!! 

a M u 

« Biscuit Crisp.'.'.'. 
" " Noodles 

Greens 

Grapes, Malaga 

It u 

Grape Juice 

U It 

H 
Haddock, (edible portion) 

Halibut, (edible portion) 

u a u 

Ham, Fresh, Lean 

U u u 

Hickory Nuts, Shelled 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp, 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 tbsp. 
1 box 
}4 box 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
lib. 
1 slice 
lloaf 
1 biscuit 
1 cup 

1 serving 

1 dozen 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 serving 

Ub. 

I serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 

lib. 

Jicup 
(chopped) 
1 tbsp, 
(chopped) 



Ozs. 

8 

H 
s 

5^ 
'A 



16 



IH 

}i 
s 

16 
1 
13 

3K 



2 
16 



16 

3J^ 
16 

3H 
16 

16 



Gms. 

16 
227 

8 
142 

8 

142 

16 

241 

8 
142 

8 
142 

100 
454 



S.S 
31 
17 

8 

142 
450 

28.4 
386.5 

7 
100 

113 

57 
454 

14 

227 



100 
454 



100 
454 



100 

454 



454 



Gms. 

1,3 
19.0 

3.46 
60 

1.3 
18.8 

1.4 
18.9 

0.5 

9.6 

0.9 
15.9 

19.3 
87.5 



7.8 
31.1 
15.6 

3.46 
60 
191 

8.4 
114 

2.94 
45 

2.3 

0.74 
4.5 



17.2 
77.9 



18.6 
84.3 



24.8 
112.6 



69.76 

6.54 



2.18 



Gms. 

0.2 
2.5 
.12 
2.3 
0.2 
3.2 
0.04 
0.-7 
0.07 
1.3 
0.08 
1.4 

16.3 
73.9 



.1: 

2.3 
7.3 

.30 
4 

.13 
4.2 

0.3 

0.9 

5.4 



0.3 
1.36 



5.2 
23.5 



14.2 
64.4 



305.6 
28.5 



Calor- 
Gms. ies 



12.5 

174.3 

3.41 

63 

6.8 

101.2 

10.2 

187.8 

6.3 

111. 5 

6.0 

106.2 



3.48 
63 
200 

8.5 

116. 3 

3.15 

32.5 

3.6 

10.83 
65.3 

3.8 
60.0 



51.68 
4.83 



1.61 



57 
796 

29 
512.7 

34 
509 

58 
870 

28 
496 

28 
500 

224 
1015 



81 
125 
62 

29 

512.7 

1629.7 

70.3 

957.2 

25.5 

350 

27 

55 
328 

IS 
240 



72 
324 



121 
549 



227 
1029 



3234 
303 



68 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


E 
1 


1 


1 


1 


P 




H— (Continued) 


1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

Ibox 
1 serving 

Iqt. 

1 serving 
1 lb. 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

3 tbsp. 

Ihead 

1 tbsp. 

i serving 
lib. 

1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 


Ozs. 

1 

3.5 
.6 

34.4 

3^ 
16 

0.5 
16 

VA 

8 
H 

3Ji 
16 

3H 

16 

16 

H 

0.7 
8.6 

34.4 
0.7 
8.6 

34.4 

11^ 
1?^ 


Gms. 

14 
227 

28.35 

100 
16 

975 

100 

454^ _ 

14 
454 

42 

227 

15 

100 

454 

108 

100 

454 
100 
454 

14 

20 
244 
975 

20 
244 
975 

27 
317 

100 
454 


Gms. 

1.2 
18.9 

.133 

11.2 
1.9 

2.2 

18.7 
84.8 

2.3 

0.8 

18.1 
82,08 

14.7 

18.7 
84.8 
16.3 
73.9 

2.3 

.066 
8.0 

32.2 
•0.7 
8.3 

33.1 

0.6 
7.6 

16.0 
72.5 


Gms. 

0.1 
1.4 

2.1 

28.3 
128.3 

14 ' 
484 

0.5 

1.1 
4.96 

1.0 

7.1 
32.16 
17.4 
78.9 

1.2 

0.8 
9.3 
39.0 
0.06 
0.7 
2.9 

33.1 
150.1 


Gms. 

11.2 
179.2 

23.02 

"86.4 
14.4 

I.S 

4.2 

5.7 

2.1 

0.5 
2.24 

81.1 

9.5 

1.0 
12.2 
48.8 

1.0 
12.5 
49.7 

18.7 
219.7 


Calor- 
ies 

50 




805 




92.5 


J 

Jell-O . 


395 




66 


K 


328 


L 


329 ' 


U « 


1494 


Lard 


127 




4083 




17 




36 




28 




84 




382 


M 


392 


Mackerel, Fresh (edible portion) . . 
** Salted 


139 
629 
222 




1007 


Malted Milk, Horlick's 


59.54 


Milk, Whole 


14 




169 


u u 


675 




7 




89 


It u 


358 




77 


u 


909 


Mutton Chops 


362 




1640 







ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



69 



POOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



U 
S 





1 


i 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


100 


45 


4.2 


14+ 
227 


1.8 
28.8 


0.9 

14.7 


5 
71 


0.7 
11.8 


0.3 

5.2 


15 
U 


'6!i 


IS 
2.8 


113 


1.8 


0.3 


142 


1.2 


0.3 


14 
227 






28.4 
170 


1.7 
10.5 


0.3 
2.0 


IS 


1 




113 

85 

14 

227 


0.8 

1.4 


0.1 
1.8 


142 
16 


36.55 
4.8 


54.7 
7.7 


113 
184 


7.7 
6.6 


O.S 
0.4 


156 


15.0 


110.0 


227 
85 
227 
680 


0.9 

.4 

0.9 

2.6 


0.7 

.6 

1.6 

4.8 


14 
6 
100 
100 


2,2 
1.8 


0.1 
^.7 


142 
28.4 


2.5 
O.S 





> 

■3 



N 
Noodles, Gluten 

O 

Oatmeal, Granulated 

Oats, Rolled 

Olive Oil, Nicelle 

OlivK 

Onion 

Orange 

Orange Juice 

a It 

Oysters 

a 

P 

Fanopeptcm 

Peaches, Fresh 

Dried 

Peach Juice 

a u 

Peanuts, Shelled 

Peanut Butter 

Peas, Green 

I " Canned 

Pecans, Shelled 

Pineapple, Fresh (edible portion) 

" Canned 

« ..» 

u u 

Port Wine (10% Alcohol) 

Potatoes, White 

Potatoes, Sweet 

Prunes 



1 cup 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

2 or 3 

1 serving 

1 medium 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

2 

Icup 
(solid) 



1 tbsp. 

1 medium 
1 cup 
l.tbsp. 
I'cup 

1 cup 
1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
1 cup 

1 cup 



1 slice 
1 cup 
1 can 

1 tbsp. 

1 medium 
1 medium 

1 cup 
3 prdtaes 



Ozs. 
T4 



2)4 

Vi 
0.5 

4 

5 

a 



4 
3 



5 
0.6 

4 
63^ 

5.5 



3 
8 

24 

3'A 
3'A 

5 
.1 



Gms, 
32.5 



9.9 
158.2 



2.7 
46.9 



1.2 

11.2 

17.4 

1.6 
25.6 

1.0 
6.3 



2.5 

11.3 

56.2 

1.1 

17.6 

34.55 
2.8 

19.6 

18.0 



Calor- 
ies 



434 



55 



16 
282 



135 
-31 



56 
77 



6 

104 



14 

84 



50 

247 
5 



777 
100 



114 
100- 



1145 



22 98 

31 130. S 

82.6 348 

247 1044 



18.4 
27.4 



88.1 
17.6 



10 



83 
123 



363 

n 



70 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


•s. 


1 




I 


s 
il 







1 serving 

1 dozen 
1 cup 

1 cup 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 wafer 

1 serving 
1 can 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 

1 serving 

1 serving 

1 serving 
1 cup 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 lump 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 


Ozs. 
M 

4 

S 
8 

1 
16 

8H 

16 

i% 
16 

16 

4 

4 
6 
8 

16 

0.4 

6.5 

% 

6.5 


Gins. 
100 

9 

113 

142 
227 

28.4 
454 

IS 
240 

14 

100 
454 

3 

100 
454 

lOO 
454 
100 

14 

a 

100 

100 

113 
170 
227 

14 

454 

IS 
210 

7.6 
184 

12 
184 


Gms. 
21.8 

0.2 
2.6 

2.4 

0.2 
2.7 

1.1 
18.1 

22 
99.6 

0.4 

23 
104.3 

18.8 
85. 1 
20.9 

2.3 

16.3 

1.4 

1.0 
1.5 

.66 

21.28 


Gms. 
8.0 

0.3 

3.4 

1.4 

0.2 

3.2 

0.04 
0.7 

12.8 
57.9 

0.5 

19.7 
89.2 

9.5 
43.0 
3.8 

0.3 

36.2 

O.S 

0.7 
1.0 

11.59 
371.0 


Gms. 

6.S 
77.6 

17.8 
22.6 

1.0 
16.3 

11.2 
179.1 

2.4 

26" 
3.6 

9 

7.9 
11.9 
11.4 

15.0 
210 

7.6 
184 

12 
184 


Calor- 
ies 

159 


R 
Raisins 


29 




352 


Raspberries. Fresh, Black, 

(edible portion) . . 


94 
90 


Rhubarb 


6 




105 




50 


u 


795 




38 


s 


203 




922 


Saltines 


IS 




269 




1221 




161 




729 




128 




13 




27 




391 




46 


Strawberries, (edible portion) 


42 
63 

45 




107 


u 


3425 




60 




840 


« Loaf 


30 




736 




48 




736 







ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



n 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



S — (Continued) 
S igar of Milk, Patch's 

am f 

S 7eetbreads 

T 
Tomatoes 

Tapioca, Pearled 

a u 

" Minute Tapioca . . 
Trout, (edible portion). . . . 

a a u _ 

Turnip 

Turkey, (edible portion). . 

a u u 

w 

Walnuts. English 

Whey 

Whitefish, (edible portion) 



1 .teaspoon 
(aver, size) 
1 tbsp 

I serving 
lib. 
Ipair 
(med. bizc) 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

1 medium 
(whole to- 
mato) 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 
1 meat 

1 glass 

1 serving 
lib. 



■s 



Ozs. 

".i64 
.564 

16 



H+ 



H 

6.S 

'A 
i'A 

16 
16 



SA 



3H 

16 



Gms. 



100 
451 
227 



IS 
227 
142 



14 
184 
14 

100 
454 



100 
454 



156 
1 



100 
454 



1 


1 


ll 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 

100% 


16.8 
76.2 
38.1 


12.1 

54.8 
27.4 




0.2 
2.7 
0.5 


0.03 

0.5 

0.3 


0.6 
9,0 
3.0 


0.03 

0.4 

0.03 




12,3 
159,5 
12.2 


17.8 
80.6 


10.3 
46,7 




1.3 


0.2 


8.1 


21.1 
95.7 


22.9 
103.9 




25.8 
.17 


98.8 
0.63 


25,1 
0,16 


1.8 


0.5 


9.3 


22.9 
103.8 


6.5 
29,4 





Calor- 
ies 



4.1 
20.5 



176 

798 
399 



4 
51 
16 



49 
640 
49 

164 
743 

39 

290.5 
1317 



093 

7 



50 



150 
681 



The weights assigned to the various measurements in this table have 
been determined carefully, but are the results of a limited number of 
experiments, and hence must be regarded as only nj^proximate. The food 
values are given with, sullicient accuracy to be within the limits of error 
of computations made on average analysis of food-stuffs. 

"A New Food Scale an aid in the administration of quantitative diets." 
Designed by T. Stewart Hart, M.D. For sale by Messrs. John Chatillon & 
Sons, 85 Cliff Street, New York. 



CHAPTEE IV 
FEEDING THE SICK 

GENERAL BrLES 

In the treatment of disease there are few questions which 
have to be considered so often in the daily routine of practice 
as those which concern the proper support and nourishment of 
the patient. 

A good nurse will never exceed or depart from the phy- 
sician's instructions ; but there are occasions when her posses- 
sion of accurate, even if limited, knowledge on the subject 
of chemical and physiological action of food will enable a 
physician to give more definite directions, greatly assisting 
him in the performance of his duties, and adding to the com- 
fort and well-being of the patient. 

Physician's Directions. The nutse's directiops in refer- 
ence to feeding her patient should be written, stating how 
much food may be given, its form, preparation and time of 
serving. In pneumonia, typhoid and all acute serious con- 
ditions, a record of all these details should be kept, also a 
record of the quantity of fluid and medicine taken. 

The nurse has a far better opportunity than the physician, 
to judge of all the conditions of the patient's digestion, and 
his likes and dislikes for different foods, and she should not 
fail to report them to the physician in charge and under- 
stand very definitely to what extent she is to be permitted to 
humor her patient, and substitute one form of food or drink 
for another. 

It may happen from lack of care or indefinite instruction, 
that the food served will neutralize the effect of the med- 
icine, either by overfeeding, or by irregularities in feeding, 

72 



FEEDING THE SICK 73 

-which disturb digestion and interfere with the beneficial ef- 
fect of the medicine. 

Those who are ill are often allowed to drift into critical 
conditions through not being properly supplied with such 
nutritive material as their enfeebled powers can digest. 
Many have perished because those around them did not know 
how to feed them, and either withheld food altogether, or 
gave that which was unsuitable, through ignorance. Even 
when the patient is confined to bed and prevented from tak- 
ing any kind of voluntary exercise, he still requires heat and 
energy for the involuntary action of heart, lungs, and the 
other processes of living, and healthy nutrition must be pro- 
vided for by a supply of suitable food. 

Often the nurse may conscientiously serve one form of 
food ordered, offering it in spite of the patient's dislike and 
nausea with the result of half starving him. When her in- 
structions have not been specific, or have not provided for 
emergencies, she should make it a point to have them clearly 
understood at the next visit of the physician. 

To be able to carry out these instructions and ofEer nourish- 
ment intelligently, a thorough practical knowledge of dietetics 
is necessary, and should be the foundation of every nurse's 
training. If we wish to succeed in avoiding nausea, vomit- 
ing, loss of strength, and even loss of life, we must learn to 
offer food to the patient in a suitable form, in the quantity 
and at the times suited to his digestive power, and so adapt 
his food to his capabilities. 

This subject has been so ably treated by Dr. Thompson 
(Practical Dietetics, 2d ed.) in his chapter, "Administration 
of Food for the Sick," that permission has been asked, and 
kindly granted, to use extracts from that chapter; also, by 
the kindness of Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards, quotations have been 
made from the article, " Nourishment in Acute Disease," from 
the "Eumford Kitchen Leaflets." 

Feeding in Acute Disease. The preparation of food for 
those who are seriously ill is a matter of vital importance, 
for the life of the patient often depends either upon the 



74 PRACTICAL DIETET-ICS 

maintenance of strength during the acute period of the dis- 
ease or on the recovery of power during convalescence. Since 
acute disease is accompanied by fever, we must consider the 
effect of feeding in cases where the temperature is febrile in 
character; also the amount of food, its quality and quantity, 
together with other conditions affecting its absorption. 

In acute disease accompanied by fever, what are the con- 
ditions? The body loses weight, urea is increased and car- 
bonic acid and water are excreted in larger amounts than in 
health. All of this loss is not dangerous if permitted to go 
on for a few days only, and if the amounts do not exceed 
certain limits. But to replace these losses we are at a dis- 
advantage as regards the ability of the system to assimilate 
iood. In fevers the appetite is small, or may be completely 
lost. The saliva, the gastric juice, pancreatic fluid, the bile, 
are less efficient in action or diminished in amount during 
high temperature. 

The stomach is very sensitive, in part, perhaps, through 
sympathy with the increased sensitiveness of the nervous sys- 
tem as a whole. If there is much hyperaesthesia of the diges- 
tive tract, as in typhoid, in peritonitis, in dysentery or gastro- 
enteritis, one must be careful not to give too much food at 
a time, and it should be in a liquid form and partially pre- 
digested. Note Typhoid Diet, page 337. 

Evidences of Digestion. Our attention should be devoted 
not only to what is put into the alimentary canal, but also to 
what goes out. For instance, if curds of undigested milk 
are found in the stools of a typhoid patient, the quantity of 
milk should be diminished, or it should be diluted. 

Every careful observer of the sick will agree that many 
patients are starved, simply from the want of attention to 
the means which alone make it possible for them to take 
food. Por example, if the patient has a fever with remis- 
sion and intermission, it is of the first importance to remem- 
ber that the ability to digest food at these intermissions is 
greater, and it is then that the most nourishing portions of 
diet should be given. 



FEEDING THE SICK 75 

It must be borne in mind that, contrary to the prevalent 
notion, the increase of body heat is not entirely responsible 
for the wasting of the fever patient. The emaciation is due 
partly to the inability to receive and digest the food, which 
in turn al-ises from the irritable state of the stomach and 
bowels and the defective secretion of the digestive fluids. 

It is the administration of unsuitable food that must be 
guarded against, and also the giving of nourishment in 
quantities and at times unsuited to the digestive powers of 
the patient. All food is changed into liquid in the process 
of digestion before it can be absorbed into the blood. Liquid 
food, therefore, is given to the very sick because it can be 
digested with the smallest amount of labor to the body. 

Predigested milk possesses the decided advantage in that 
it aids the assimilation of the milk without adding to its 
bulk, as do lime water and other substances. 

By diluting milk, stimulants and gruels too much, the 
quantity of the fluid is so great that the patient soon tires 
of swallowing, and stops before enough nourishment has been 
obtained. One should not give what cannot be digested, nor 
less than can be assimilated. So the attendant must have a 
constant watch over the condition of the patient's powers of 
digestion, and it is necessary for her to know how to choose 
such variety in the diet as to include both what is palatable 
and what will afford a proper amount of nourishment. 

The Appetite. As the appetite of the sick often requires 
tempting, the greatest pains should be taken in the prepara- 
tion of the invalid's food. The lack of desire for food may 
be due merely to defective cooking, to the serving of meals at 
inopportune moments, or to the fact that the food selected 
is not to the patient's liking in kind, flavor, or appearance. 
A desire for food may exist, but not for the particular food 
offered, and it is the province of the nurse to differentiate. 

Punctuality in serving meals should be carefully observed, 
for an appetite ready at the accustomed hour may fail if the 
meal is delayed. There is much unconscious habit in re- 
gard to eating. Time for cooking food should be carefully 



76 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

considered with regard to the time for serving. Many foods 
properly cooked are spoiled by standing, which if served 
promptly would be delicious. The rule of serving food at 
stated intervals should be observed for the conscious as well 
as the unconscious or semi-unconscious patient. 

Quality and Quantity of Food. All foods supplied should 
be as pure and fresh as possible. Hence for the sick it is 
desirable to select the best quality obtainable. 

The amount should be regulated by the physician. When 
this is not done, care must be taken, on the one hand to see 
that sufficient is eaten, which often necessitates tempting the" 
appetite; and on the other to avoid overindulgence if the 
patient is voracious or has a fancy for certain articles of 
which large amounts are likely to be harmful. 

A well man, lying quietly in bed, requires from 1600 to 
2000 calories per day, and if the body is being wasted by 
disease, he may need a great deal more. During conva- 
lescence, if the body has lost weight, food must be given 
for rebuilding, in addition to the ordinary daily need. 

Temperature of Food. The temperature of the food served 
is exceedingly important, as it has a marked influence upon 
digestion. As a rule, foods to be served "hot" should 
neither be served lukewarm nor too hot. Serve in hot dishes 
and cover in transit. Cold food should be served neither 
lukewarm nor ice cold. Under many conditions food at ex- 
treme temperatures interferes with digestion and absorption. 

Details in Feeding. The patient should be saved from 
thinking as well as from physical exertion, and it is unwise 
to ask him what he would like to eat, for it is often the un- 
expected that pleases. Personal idiosyncrasies should be con- 
sidered; for some foods easy of digestion, if repugnant to 
the patient, may prove nauseating and be rejected or disturb 
digestion. 

Only a small quantity of food should be given at one time 
so that the digestive organs may not be overtaxed. It is 
much better to do this often than to give too much at one 
time. A tablespoonful of nourishment every half hour may 



FEEDING TEE SICK 77 

be retained and digested, and do the patient good, when if 
a larger amount were given the stomach would reject it. 

The majority of weak patients are unable to take food of 
any solid kind before eleven o'clock in the morning, yet 
before that time comes they are apt to become exhausted. 
This would not be likely to occur if a spoonful of some liquid 
nourishment or stimulant ordered by the physician were given 
every hour or two, from the early morning up to the time 
for taking the solid food, which the patient would then 
probably be able to do by noon. 

All noise in the preparation of food and smell of cook- 
ing should be kept from the sick room. The nurse should 
never eat her meal or taste the patient's food in his presence, 
and should always have a cheerful manner and a cleanly, 
tidy appearance. These things have much effect upon the 
patient's appetite. 

Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth. When possible, it is 
well to bathe the patient's face and hands before offering a 
meal. The mouth should be rinsed each time after eating 
with pure water, or diluted borax water (two teaspoonfuls 
to a tumbler of water). This takes away the after-taste of 
the food and he is less apt to tire of it. 

The mouth should be kept thoroughly cleansed, for if the 
lips are allowed to become parched and sour, the patient will 
refuse nourishment which he might otherwise take. When a 
patient cannot rinse his own mouth it must be frequently 
cleansed by the nurse with a swab of fresh cotton, fastened to 
a small flexible stick. A tongue scraper made of a whale- 
bone bent to a loop may be used before serving the food; 
thus the taste nerves will be uncovered and the appetite im- 
proved. 

Time and Position for Feeding. When the patient is first 
allowed to sit up for half an hour, it is well to utilize this 
time for giving the principal meal of the day, which is likely 
to be eaten with more relish, and perhaps better digested in 
consequence. If the patient is only allowed to partially sit 
up in bed, the nurse should see that the position is com- 



78 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

fortable, and that the food tray does not cramp the arms and 
legs, taking care that no crumbs get into the bed. 

Sleej} and Feeding. The awakening of a patient to take 
nourishment depends upon his need of the nutriment and 
upon his ability to go to sleep again. In serious cases it 
should be given at stated intervals if the patient drops to 
sleep easily after taking it. Some patients, however, are an- 
noyed by being awakened and cannot sleep again. In such 
cases it may be that the sleep will be more beneficial than 
food. 

Feeding the Helpless Patient. The effort of sitting up 
may become fatiguing to the invalid and so destroy his appe- 
tite before the meal is half done, or he may not be able to 
feed himself, or to raise his head. In such cases the diffi- 
culty can be obviated by placing the hand beneath the pillow 
and raising both together gently. 

In feeding fluids at these times always serve in small 
tumbler, not more than two-thirds filled; see that swallows 
are not taken during inspiration, and that each mouthful is 
swallowed before another is offered. In case the head cannot 
be raised, food may be given by means of a glass tube or a 
feeding cup. 

Feeding the Unconscious Patient. The feeding of uncon- 
scious patients demands especial care. They should be given 
only liquid nourishment, and fed with a spoon, or through 
a catheter. If the jaws are set, a medicine dropper may be 
utilized ; not over a teaspoonf ul should be given at once, and 
the nurse must be sure it is swallowed before she gives more. 
In the case of comatose children, or young infants, the nour- 
ishment may be poured into the nostril in place of the mouth. 
Feeding with the stomach tube is sometimes resorted to, when 
nasal feeding is not feasible. 

Forced Feeding. Forced feeding consists in introducing 
various liquid foods, as milk, eggs, meat-juice or extracts 
into the stomach by way of the nose or directly through the 
mouth by means of a stomach tube. This is seldom required 
of the nurse, but is usually -done by the physician himself. 



FEEDING THE SICK 79' 

This method is employed when the unconscious patient expe-- 
riences difficulty in swallowing; in gastric irritability; when 
a patient is unable to take sufficient food, owing to loss of 
appetite and disgust for food; and also in case of a refrac- 
tory patient who refuses to eat. 

Nasal Feeding. In nasal feeding a nasal tube is em- 
ployed or in case of infant a catheter. Have either well 
oiled and passed gently through the nose into the oesophagus 
and then into the stomach. Before pouring in the food wait 
a moment to see that the tube has not entered the larynx. 

Use of the Stomach Tube. The jaws must be kept open. 
In children without teeth, the finger may be employed; in 
grown persons a mouth gag or a roller bandage may be held 
between the teeth. The tube should be moistened, passed 
into the pharynx and thence rapidly into the stomach. If 
these two precautions are not observed, contraction of the 
muscles may occur, preventing the tube from entering the 
oesophagus. In passing the tube into the oesophagus, hold 
it well back from the end. When the tube is satisfactorily 
introduced, place a funnel in the free end and pour liquid 
nourishment slowly down the side of the funnel until the 
tube is filled, and the air in tube is expelled; this care pre- 
vents the air in tube entering the stomach. In removing the 
tube, it should be withdrawn rapidly in order not to excite 
vomiting. In some cases the physician orders the stomach 
washed out before introducing the food. When it is neces- 
sary to take special precautions to prevent regurgitation of 
the food, the ribs may be tickled to prevent contraction of 
the diaphragm. 

Eectal Feeding. This form of alimentation is necessary 
when the stomach cannot retain food. It is based on the fact 
that the rectal mucous membrane, while it possesses no di- 
gestive faculty, is able to absorb certain classes of nutriment. 
These include among the carbohydrates, sugars; among pro- 
teins, the native albumin as well as the end products of pro- 
tein digestion. The latter are believed to be much more 
absorbable than the first products (albumoses and peptones). 



80 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Soluble starch (dextrin) is doubtless absorbable, but uir- 
changed starch and fats can hardly be taken up. It is prob- 
able that finely emulsified fats if thrown well up into the 
colon are absorbable to some extent. Although we cannot 
understand why certain substances nourish the patient, since 
they are theoretically not absorbable, they seem in some man- 
ner to be utilized, even when merely thrown into the rectum. 
As far as possible we should employ substances which we 
know positively to be capable of absorption; but in rectal 
feeding for a long period it is sometimes necessary to use a 
great variety of formula, making it out of the question to 
confine ourselves to the few articles which are theoretically 
best suited for the purpose. 

The rectum may be intolerant to almost any form of enema j 
even if retained for some time, it may be rejected without 
apparent change. Under the most favorable circumstances, 
at least three-fourths of the quantity injected will come 
away with the regular evacuation of the bowels. The amount 
of energy actually supplied must be far below the theoretical 
demands of the body. In some cases, it is of course possible 
to nourish the patient partly by the mouth and partly by 
rubbing a small amount of fatty matter into the skin. Some 
of the most available substances, such as solutions of sugar, 
are naturally irritating to the rectum. 

It is possible to keep a patient alive for weeks and even 
months by rectal feeding, but in many cases this resource for 
one reason or another fails outright to do what is expected of 
it. Hence we cannot be too careful as to technique and 
choice of material used. Of natural substances, milk and 
eggs have been very freely used. The albumin and sugar in 
the milk are probably utilized. In an emulsion of eggs, the 
native albumin is doubtless the constituent which nourishes 
the patient. We cannot be sure of the absorption of the 
fatty matter of the milk and eggs. Both these substances are 
relatively non-irritating. Peptonized milk answers well in 
some cases. It is best to carry on the peptonization for a 
long period, until the end products of digestion form, pep-. 



FEEDING TEE SICK 81 

tones themselves being often irritating. Solutions of glucose 
and dextrin are useful, alone or combined with other in- 
gredients. For example, eggs may be combined with glucose, 
or plain milk with dextrin. For variety, any of the pre- 
digested foods, whether these come in solution or dried, and 
even bouillon and beef-tea may be tried. Starch emulsion 
is soothing in the rectum and may be utilized if first mixed 
with diastase. 

• The technique is most important. The rectum should 
first be cleaned by a high injection of decinormal saline 
solution, after which no attempt should be made to give a 
nourishing injection for at least an hour. It may be neces- 
sary for the physician to treat the rectum if hemorrhoids or 
great irritability exists. The patient's hips should be raised 
higher than the head to aid in retaining the enema. A tube 
specially designed for the purpose should be used, the enema 
being at body heat and allowed to flow" in by gravity from 
a funnel. The amount injected should never exceed 8 oz. 
and the enema cannot be repeated oftener than every 6 
hours unless the quantity is small. As a rule, the smaller the 
enema the more frequently it may be used. After an injec- 
tion the patient should be kept perfectly quiet. 

Stimulants like black coffee and whisky are often given by 
the rectum, the whisky requiring dilution with two parts 
water. Wine is sometimes used for the purpose. Stimulat- 
ing and nutritive enemata may be combined. 

Injections of normal salt solution, seltzer water, etc., are 
sometimes used to supply the body with fluids and quench 
thirst. 

Useful additions to enemata comprise a little salt or sodium 
bicarbonate or a little starch emulsion ; at times a few drops 
of laudanum are of value in aiding retention. 

One should not be discouraged by early failure, as it is 
possible for tolerance to be established. 



83 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOSHTJLAE FOR RECTAL FEEDING 

I. Peptone-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

60 e. c. peptone ; = 100 Cal. 

II. Egg-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

3 eggs =200 Cal. 

3 gms. salt. 

III. Stareh-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

70 gms. starch = 250 Cal. 

IV. Sugar-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. e. milk ' =170 Cal. 

50 gms. grape sugar = 250 Cal. 

V. Pancreas, Von Leube 

75 gm. pancreas substance = 300 Cal. 

225 gm. beef =300 Cal. 

35 gms. fat =350 Cal. 

(This enema, in semi-solid condition, is introduced into the rectum 
and allowed to digest therein. A piston syringe with a wide nozzle 
is required.) 

Nutrient Enema: 

Peptonised Milk 5 iv to J vi (four 

Whites of two eggs to six ounces) 

Above used Per Rectum every two to four hours. 

'Nutrient Enema: 

Milk 5 i (one ounce) 

German Seltzer H-O 5 '^ (four ounces) 

Used in Icterus, every two hours. 

Nutrient Enemata — ^Malted Milk. 

Dissolve from three to four heaping teaspoonfuls of Horlick's 
malted milk powder in one-half pint of water, to which add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Use at body temperature, or two or three de- 
grees higher. 

The white of one egg may be incorporated if desired. 

Four to six ounces used per rectum every two to four hours. 

Stimulating ^nema: ' 

Black Coffee ^ \v (four ounces) 

Whiskey 3 ii (two ounces) 



FEEDING TEE SICK 83 

Bait Solution: 

Sodium chloride 5 i (one drachm ) 

Aquae O i (one pint) 

Use of Alcohol in the Skh Room. The nurse may be re- 
quired to exercise her own judgment at times in the emer- 
gency use of alcoholics in the sick room. This necessity is 
most likely to occur with those patients having incurable 
maladies where the question of harm to the organism or to 
the morals of the individual does not come into consideration. 
Consumptives often show a remarkable tolerance to alcohol, 
and receive a notable stimulating effect from it, and it 
sometimes happens that an eggnog or milk punch will enable 
an advanced consumptive to dress and make his toilet in the 
morning when otherwise he would have to lie in bed. This 
is true to a less extent of some other incurable diseases. 
Severe acute or subacute conditions in which an alcoholic 
stimulant might require to be given in preference to any 
other for its emergency effect in averting unlooked-for cardiac 
failure comprise pyemia, septicemia and diphtheria. In the 
same class belong certain cases of acute poisoning due to 
mistakes or suicidal intent, such as those due to aconite and 
similar heart poisons. The propriety of giving alcoholics 
after simple collapse or syncope when no serious disease is 
present depends upon the nature of the case and whether 
other stimulants are available. 

Alcohol should perhaps never be given even in emergencies 
to subjects with neurosis or insanity or to victims of severe 
disease of the gastrointestinal organs. 

Keeping Ice in the Sick Room. The very best plan is to 
have a small refrigerator or a Japanese ice box, which may 
be had for a few dollars. If these little luxuries are im- 
possible, put the ice in a deep bowl, cover it with a plate, 
and place the bowl between two clean feather pillows. An- 
o'ther simple way of keeping ice is to put it in a dish pan, 
cover with a tin lid, and wrap in ilannel cloths and news- 
papers. It will keep a long time, as feathers, wool and 
paper are poor conductors of heat. 



84 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Disinfecting Utensils. All dishes or utensils used in the 
sick room should be disinfected before being sent to the 
kitchen to be washed. A simple method is to scrape them 
clean and dip them in a basin of borax water (a teaspoonful 
of borax in a shallow bowl of water). In case of infectious 
diseases all dishes and utensils should be boiled in water 
containing 3 per cent, of sodium bicarbonate for one-half an 
hour to one hour. 



CHAPTEK V 
THE TRAY 

The writer's intention is only to suggest to the nurse the 
best and simplest methods of arranging the tray and a few 
of the important details. 

These things seem trivial, but it must be remembered that 
the horizon of the sick room is limited, and that the patient 
who has long been confined to bed with a serious illness thinks 
much of his immediate surroundings. 

He may seem too ill to notice these details, whereas he is 
only too ill to speak of them, for one feeds with the eyes quite 
as much as with the lips, and by some carelessness of the 
nurse the appetite of a reiined, fastidious, or nervous pa- 
tient may be wholly destroyed. 

While the natural stimulants to appetite, such as fresh 
air, exercise and enlivening companionship, are necessarily 
wanting, the taking of food is the chief event of the day, 
and too much care cannot be bestowed upon its preparation 
and service, as, has been said, the appearance and manner of 
offering have much to do with its acceptance or rejection. 

ATTRACTIVE ARRANGEMENT OF A TRAY 

The cover and the arrangement of the tray is of the ut- 
most importance, and the slightest departure from regularity 
and immaculate cleanliness should be avoided. 

The tray should be covered with fine linen damask, with- 
out crease or wrinkle — the best you can afford. Use the 
choicest silver, daintiest china and glassware; arrange neatly 
and conveniently. Place a single rose or flower on the tray; 
a quotation, added as a variety, will often attract the atten- 
tion, and it is well, when possible, to divert the patient's 

85 



86 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



mind from his ailments while eating. This can easily be 
done in these little ways, and also by the introduction of 
some cheerful and interesting topic of conversation. 




Proper Placing 



1 Plate. 

2 Cup and saucer. 

3 Bread and butter plate. 

4 Individual creamer and sugar. 
6 Tumbler. 

6 Individual salt. 



7 Knife. 

8 Fork. 

9 Spoon. 

10 Butter spread. 

11 Napkin. 

12 Flowers. 



17 After coffee spoon. 

18 Soup or cereal or berry plate, 

etc. 



13 Salad knife. 

14 Soup spoon. 

15 Oyster fork. 

16 Salad fork. 

N.B. — 'The dots between numbers 7 and 2 reading from left to 
right represent numbers 13, 14, 15, and 17. Sharp edge of knife 
turned toward plate; tines of forks, bowl of spoons, all dishes and 
tumblers placed right side up. 

How to Serve. (General Eules.) The time of cooking 
food to be sefved, should be carefully considered in relation 



THE TRAY 87 

to the time of serving, for most palatabl-e food may be 
spoiled by not serving it at the proper time. 

Avoid serving too many things on tray. Cover tray with a 
clean napkin or tray cover in carrying it to its destination. 
When the dietary ordered is very limited in variety, the pa- 
tient is often gratified by having his food served in courses, 
and will eat more than if given everything at once. 

Only a small quantity should be served at one time. *If 
possible, taste of all food and drinks before serving, to see 
if properly seasoned and at right temperature to serve. 

Always use separate spoon for tasting. 

Food to be served hot, should be served liot (not luke- 
warm), in heated dishes and covered in transit. 

Cold drinks and fruits are more healthful when served 
cool than ice-cold. 

When fluid foods are to be given, other receptacles should 
be used than those used for medicine, or the association of 
ideas may be strong enough to destroy what little appetite 
the patient has, and to even produce nausea. Do not fill 
cups or glasses full, but within one inch of the top. For 
individual dishes, for a luncheon, or drinks to be passed 
alone, use a small tray or plate, covered with a doily or 
folded napkin. 

The finger-bowl should be placed on a small plate, cov- 
ered with a dainty doily; fill one-fourth full of water, and 
put a few rose petals or green leaves in the water and on the 
side of the plate. 

When possible, cover all foods and drinks left standing in 
the sick room. 

The tray and all traces of a meal should be removed im- 
mediately after eating. Half-emptied cups or glasses should 
never be left in the room. 

If the patient is restricted to any especial diet, vary as 
far as possible in the preparation and serving. 

The diet of the patient should be under the supervision 
of the physician, and his directions followed implicitly, for 
much unnecessary suffering, and even death, has been the 
result of giving forbidden food. 



CHAPTER VI 
METHODS OF COOKING AND CAEE OF FOOD 

Cooking is the preparation of food for eating. 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of cooked food depends 
to a C9nsiderable extent upon the manner in which it is 
cqoked'and served. The time and temperature of cooking 
should be carefully considered, in relation to the constituents 
of the food material. 

Success in Cooking depends in part upon the quality of 
material used, which should be the best. The measurements 
must be accurate. Care should be exercised in combining 
-ingredients and one should know the effect of various modes 
of cooking on the food under consideration. Training and 
experience are necessary for success. 

Objective Points in Cooking: 

1. To improve the flavor of food, or render it more pal- 
atable. 

2. To soften it that it may be more readily masticated and 
digested. 

3. To produce chemical changes which increase digestibil- 
ity. 

4. To destroy bacteria and parasites which may be pres- 
ent in raw food. 

Effects of Heat. Protein is coagulated by hot water and 
dry heat ; cold water dissolves soluble proteins, especially if a 
little salt is present. 

Starch is converted into dextrin by dry heat at a tempera- 
ture of 320° F. ; the starch granules dissolve when subjected 
to boiling water; cold water separates starch grains. 

88 



METHODS OP CObKING AND CARE OF FOOD 89 

Sugars are changed to caramel at a high temperature. 

Fats are readily decomposed by heat, with production of 
free fatty acids. 

Principles Governing the Choice of a Method of Coohing 
Any Food. These include : (1) A knowledge of the effects 
of heat and moisture on the digestibility of the articles to be 
cooked. (2) The relation of the method to the extraction of 
soluble portions of the food materials. 

Principal Cooking Processes: 

1. Boiling is cooking in boiling water (213° P.). Gentle 
boiling is as effective as rapid, and prevents waste of fuel if 
gas is used. 

2. Stewing is long, slow cooking in water below the boil- 
ing point — 186° P. 

3. Steaming is cooking in heat derived from the vapor of 
boiling water. It is of two types. (1) In a steamer (moist 
heat). (2) In a double boiler (dry heat). 

4. Broiling is cooking over a glowing fire or over or un- 
der a flame. Pan broiling is cooking meat in a very hot 
frying-pan without fat, turning the meat often. 

5. Baking is cooking in an oven by means of heated air. 
Eoasting is cooking before a glowing fire (direct heat). 

6. Prying is cooking in a deep bath of hot fat (tempera- 
ture ranging from 350° to 400° P.). 

Other methods are used which differ but slightly from the 
above. Braizing is a combination of stewing and baking; 
fricasseeing of frying and stewing. 

The Object of Each Coohing Process: 

1. To retain the juice as in boiling, steaming, broiling, bak- 
ing, roasting, frying. 

2. To extract the Juices as in soups. 

3. Partly to retain and partly to extract the juices as in 
stews, chowders, braising, and fricasseeing. 

Coolcing Utensils. A nurse should always have at hand a 
standard measuring cup, divided into thirds and fourths. 
iWooden spoons are preferable to metal ones for mixing and 



90 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

stirring, as metal spoons are too hard and may break off 
bits of enamel, and are also acted upon by acids. For beating 
egg-white, a spoon-shaped wire beater should be used; for 
the yolks, a fork or Dover egg beater is preferable. Use 
round bottom utensils when stirring is necessary during the 
cooking. Use earthen bowl and wooden spoons for mixing 
batters, etc. A double boiler should be used when cooking 
any food that burns easily (as milk) ; also when foods are to 
be cooked at low temperatures. 

Blending Ingredients. There are several ways of accom- 
plishing this purpose. 

1. Stirring. This is simple mechanical mixing in which 
a mass of ingredients is made uniform. 

2. Beating or whipping consists in so manipulating a soft 
mixture as to incorporate the air. A spoon or special device 
is so applied that the bottom of the mixture is steadily lifted 
to the top. 

3. Polding-in is a term applied to the method of intro- 
ducing beaten white of egg slowly and gently into a soft 
mass, so as to render it light, the air being retained. 

4. Cutting is used only in making pastry. Two knives are 
worked in opposite directions until the shortening is well 
incorporated in the flour. 

Suggestions as to Methods of Working. If a fire and oven 
are to be used these must be first of all attended to that they 
be in readiness when needed. All the cooking apparatus 
should be laid out and the materials to be cooked measured 
in preparations for mixing. It is advisable to be economical 
in the use of utensils. Thus one measureing cup may some- 
times be used in succession for dry materials, liquids and 
fats, in the order named. A receptacle should be at hand 
for soiled spoons and other utensils employed in measureing 
or mixing. It is desirable to work as much as possible in a 
small space ; thus the measureing and mixing should be done 
on a single table if possible. All soiled dishes should be put 
to soak; at odd moments they may be washed, dried and put 
away. The purpose underlying these principles is that the 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 91 

nurse may go into the family kitchen and prepare food for 
the patient without in the least interfering with the regular 
kitchen work of the household. 

Ice Box and Contents. The ice box should be maintained 
in a state of absolute cleanliness. This is not difficult in 
the case of a simple portable refrigerator without a drain 
pipe, which may be flushed out daily with boiling water con- 
taining borax or ammonia (half ounce to the gallon). How- 
ever, in the larger kinds of portable refrigerators, and in the 
set ice boxes where a tube is necessary for drainage, all the 
compartments and shelves should be washed with soap and 
hot water at least once in a week, while every day loose par- 
ticles of food which have escaped from dishes, etc., should 
be carefully removed ; or if advisable in certain cases, the food 
and 'shelves may be removed and wiped or brushed o£E. The 
drainage pipes must be cleaned with a brush made for the 
purpose at least once a week. It is advisable to sprinkle 
borax on the shelves after cleaning. Certain pungent articles 
can not be kept in an ice box without flavoring other foods 
such as butter, milk, etc. 

Institutions, if large enough, may use a refrigerating plant, 
which does away in part with the handling of ice; or by the 
aid of an ice machine, superintendents may assure them- 
selves of the purity of all ice designed for internal use. 

The drain pipe- of an ice box should not, for obvious rea- 
sons, communicate with the sewerage system. 

The temperature in the food compartments is sometimes 
much warmer than one would imagine; and it is desirable 
to get some idea of what the temperature fluctuations are by 
using a thermometer. The reading can hardly go lower than 
40° P. and should not be over 60° F. 

The ice cake should be wrapped in cloth or paper, not only 
for economy's sake but because it may be dirty inside or out- 
side. No food should be placed in the box while warm, for 
the sudden cooling may set up undesirable changes. Canned 
food should not be placed on ice in the opened can, but in a 
fresh receptacle. When possible, each article should be 



93 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

placed in a separate container, or wrapped in paper. Mois- 
ture in the ice box, while unavoidable, should be kept down 
by wiping walls and shelves dry at intervals. 

CARE OF FOODi 

The care of food between the time of purchase and cooking, 
and that of cooking and serving is highly important. The 
fact that spoiled food represents an economic loss, important 
as it is, is much less significant than the fact that not only 
spoiled food, but good food which is contaminated with germ 
life, is a possible source of disease. 

Exposed food, i. e., food exposed to dust, insects, etc., be- 
comes contaminated with disease germs without necessarily 
becoming spoiled or in any way offensive to the senses. The 
most crisp salad or luscious fruit may be covered with dan- 
gerous microorganisms. 

By far the most frequent and abundant forms of micro- 
organisms, which grow at such rate as quickly to become vis- 
ible to the naked eye, are molds. These are not on the whole 
harmful to man, and their chief significance is that they give 
to foods a bad flavor and cause a certain amount of decompo- 
sition. These organisms attack food which is stored in dark, 
damp places, chiefly cellars, and although themselves gen- 
erally harmless, they are likely to be associated with poisonous 
bacteria. Certain butchers hang steaks until they become 
covered with mold, but the mold does not make the meat ten- 
der and highly flavored, for these changes are due largely 
to the bacteria of putrefaction which are also present, thriv- 
ing under the same conditions as does the mold. 

In case of substances which have a natural protective cov- 
ering, it is highly important that this should not be broken 
in handling. Thus when fruits and vegetables are bruised, 
the pulp is quickly attacked by microorganisms and local 
changes occur, resulting in economic waste, since such articles 
can only be partly utilized. 

'•For further information, note " Care of Food in the Home." Farmers* 
Bulletin, No. 375 U. S. Dept; of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 93 

Foods should therefore he stored in places which admit 
plenty of sunlight and air, which will antagonize the growth 
of molds and putrefactive bacteria. Ice, by producing tem- 
peratures unfavorable for the growth of microorganisms, is 
a valuable aid in this sort of cleanliness. Some use of soap 
and water is necessary, but the benefits are partly lost if the 
shelves, etc., are left damp. In cellars repeated whitewashing 
is the most available resource for cleanliness. 

Food should be .bought in the freshest and cleanest state, 
should be placed in clean containers, and handled with clean 
hands. Foods should always be washed if there is any suspi- 
cion of contamination. The cases of violent cholera morbus 
which often follow the use of unripe apples, and even of ripe 
fruit like cherries, are believed to be due not to the irritating 
acids present in fruit, but to the presence of a well-known 
bacterium mingled with the dust which collects on such fruit. 
To be absolutely on the safe side, all fruits and vegetables 
should be eaten cooked, but this would deprive us of salads 
and fresh fruits and berries which form so large and pleas- 
urable a part of the average dietary. It has been found by 
experience that if celery, greens, asparagus, berries, etc., are 
washed repeatedly in cool or tepid water, they can at last 
become quite clean without losing their delicate flavor and 
consistency. As long as a particle of grit is present there is 
of course possibility of contamination by living organisms. 
They should be washed, therefore, until the wash water is 
clear. This is a rule which applies to all food that is to 
be eaten raw. With cooking such caution is not absolutely 
necessary. Potatoes, etc., are washed before boiling for 
esthetic reasons only. 

The worst cases of food poisoning, known as ptomaine 
poisoning, are mysterious in character, and are not entirely 
preventable. Chemical substances not usually formed in sim- 
ple decomposition are responsible. They may be present alike 
in raw, cooked, or frozen foods, and in fresh and preserved 
foods. In some cases there is abundant evidence of extreme 
decomposition. The use of rotten eggs in cookery by bakers 



94 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

has caused severe ptomaine poisoning. Cold storage meats 
are sometimes responsible. Pish poisoning, especially with 
shell fish, may be due to some unknown disease of the ani- 
mals themselves (although fish very readily undergo decom- 
position), and personal susceptibility is often a factor. The 
numerous cases of ice cream poisoning are usually due to 
mistakes of amateurs who do not understand the proper re- 
quirements of the art. Although we do not understand and 
cannot always foresee ptomaine poisoning, it is the more 
important that no step be neglected which will contribute in 
theory to securing clean food. Most cases occur in prolonged 
warm weather in which decomposition is favored. Sound, 
fresh food, thoroughly cooked and eaten at once could hardly 
cause ptomaine poisoning under any conditions. 

The articles which the ordinary careful nurse must think 
of in this connection are preserved foods of all kinds, shell 
fish, and milk products, the latter being of most significance, 
because milk, fresh cream, ice cream, etc., are often given 
freely to invalids. The care of milk, drinking water and 
other kinds of food is considered elsewhere. 

Special care of food in respect to fly pollution has become 
necessary since we have learned of the part played by this 
insect in causing typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, etc. Both 
the feet and the excrement of flies are sources of contamina- 
tion. Dealers in food-stuffs in the main take but little pains 
against protecting their wares from fly contamination. Cook- 
ing and careful washing of food to be eaten raw, are our 
principal safeguards in respect to food as it reaches the house. 
There is the added danger that food when ready for con- 
sumption will be freshly contaminated. To obviate this, 
doors and windows of kitchens and dining rooms must be 
properly screened, and flypaper and similar precautions em- 
ployed. If typhoid is epidemic in a neighborhood, it is well 
to avoid raw food entirely, just as we avoid unsterilized water 
and milk. Flies are much more likely to abound in neighbor- 
hoods where manure, garbage^ etc., are allowed to accumulate, 
and are more dangerous than ordinary dust. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 95 

Dealers usually are at some pains to keep their supplies free 
from dust, though their methods are not always sanitary, 
e. g., the use of the feather duster for fruit. Dust from the 
streets of cities abounds in germ life. Vegetables and cer- 
tain fruits in clusters which cannot be wiped (grapes, cur- 
rants, etc.) are most likely to be dusty. Washing succes- 
sively in a number of waters will usually remove the dust; 
but in the tropics where many diseases are dust-borne it is not 
considered safe to eat raw grapes at all. Whether washing 
is sufficient depends on the character of the dust and the 
degree of exposure to it. 

Preserving Foods. Foods to be preserved should be per- 
fectly fresh. Yeo gives four methods of preservation : 

^1) Drying is the method most available for preserving 
peas, beans, prunes, apricots and other fruits. Milk and eggs 
may both be preserved by desiccation. 

(2) Exclusion of air may be applied in several ways. 
Smoking, which coagulates the outer surface and sterilizes 
it, serves for preserving ham, bacon, fish, etc. Packing in 
sawdust, etc., or dipping in wax preserves eggs. Canning in 
tins or jars under steam heat is used for preserving many 
kinds of food, all air thus being forced out before the can or 
jar is hermetically sealed. 

(3) Freezing and cold storage are used extensively for 
preserving fish, meat, jams, etc. Such foods must be cooked 
immediately upon thawing. 

(4) Antiseptics are used very extensively in food preserva- 
tion. The oldest and most widely known of these are salt, 
vinegar, alcohol and syrups. More recently a great variety 
of antiseptic chemicals have been used — benzoate of soda, 
salicylic acid, etc., etc. The advisability of their use, even 
in minute quantities, is questionable. 

Concentration. Most foods can be reduced to a dry or 
otherwise condensed state without loss of nutritive value or 
danger of decomposition; and on account of the resulting 
economy in price and storage room may enter into the dietaries 
of hospitals and institutions. Sugar, oil and starch, and 



96 PRACTICAL DIETETIC IS 

many cf n-al products, are already in a state of concentration. 
Powdered milk and meat, egg powder, etc., are coming more 
and more into use. Condensed milk has long been a useful 
product (see milk and milk preparations), as have dried and 
evaporated fruits and vegetables. All these products can be 
used in cookery. Their chief use as mainstays will doubtless 
be in cases of temporary shortage of fresh foods, due to 
devastating storms, " strikes " and other happenings which 
interrupt trafBc. 

Predigestion of Food. Much is written against the use of 
predigested foods as a steady diet for the well. Many starchy 
foods on the market are partially digested by heat. The 
objection seems to rest on the theory that such foods give the 
digestive fluids and muscles of the digestive organs nothing 
to do, and that a sort of sluggishness is set up. It cannot 
be said truthfully that these claims have ever been backed 
up by facts. No one denies that thorough mastication is a 
great advantage, and with thorough mastication much of the 
starch is predigested in the mouth, or, after swallowing, in 
the fundus of the stomach.' Predigested proteins are not used 
as staple foods, and as little is gained by very finely masti- 
cating flesh foods, the stomach has plenty of work in digest- 
ing animal proteins. If there is fat in the diet the pancreas 
can never fall into a state of disuse. Hence the outcry 
against partially predigested breakfast foods does not seem 
justified on this score. ' It is true, however, that their absence 
of flavor, and the soft and pulpy character of some of them 
are recognized as possible drawbacks; for semi-solid and 
pultaceous foods are difficult to masticate, while their in- 
sipidity does not flavor a flow of digestive fluids. If ad- 
herence to these foods causes sluggish digestion and inability 
to deal with food in more natural condition, one would impute 
this not to predigestion, but to the fact that the tastelessness 
and the ease with which they may be bolted, are the real 
factors which bring about a passive state of the digestive 
functions. 



METHODS OP COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 97 

In a diet for the ill, the dyspeptic, the convalescent, etc., 
there can be no possible objection to predigestion ; on the con- 
trary, it is highly desirable np to a certain extent. But just 
as soon as possible the patient should return to foods in the 
natural state, bearing in mind that a small minority of 
cases, even the acutely ill, thrive on food which in theory 
would be hazardous to say the least. Apparently hopeless 
cases of sepsis have seemingly been rescued by placing pa- 
tients on food suited only for the healthy. Such patients 
must, however, have a natural appetite and be able to tolerate 
the food. 

Adulteration of Food. " Since the passage of the !N'ational 
Pure Food and Drugs Act, giving to the United States Gov- 
ernment authority to enforce stringent laws against the adul- 
teration and misbranding of foods which enter into inter- 
state commerce, and the more rigid enforcement of similar 
state laws which regulate these matters in many of the states, 
a great burden has been lifted from the shoulders of the buyer. 
This legislation has enormously decreased the deceptions 
formerly practiced by some mahufacturers, and since it in- 
sures that the name and description on bottle and package 
shall not misrepresent the contents, the buyer, if he knows 
what he wants, will have no difficulty in obtaining it, while 
the honest manufacturers and dealers (and they have with- 
out doubt always outnumbered the others) will also be pro- 
tected. This matter in its various aspects is taken up in 
publications of the Bureau of Chemistry^ of this Depart- 
ment." " For Table of Common Adulteration of Food- 
stuffs, note Farmer's Bulletin No. 25, of the United States 
Department of Agriculture, Division of Chemistry, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

' U. S. Dept. Agriculture Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 100; Year Book 
1907, p. 321. 

"U. S. Dept. Agriculture, Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 325, p. 19. 



CHAPTEE VII 
MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success in 
cooking. 

All dry ingredients, such as flour, meal, confectioners' or 
powdered sugar, should be sifted before measuring. 

Mustard, cream of tartar, soda, and salt should be stirred 
before measuring, to lighten and free from lumps. 




A Standard Measuring Cup 

A stah,dard meaiuring cup contains one-half pint and is 
divided into fourths and thirds. 

To measure a cupful of dry material, put in the ingredients 
by spoonfuls, round slightly and level with back of case- 
knife, being careful not to shake cup. 

A cupful is measured level with the brim. 

A heaping cupful is measured level, with two table spoon- 
fuls extra added. 

A scant cupful is measured level, with two table spoonfuls 
taken out. 

All ingredients measured hy the tablespoon or teaspoon are 
measured level. 

98 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 99 

To measure a spoonful, fill the spoon and level it oS with 
the back of case-knife. 




To measure a half -spoonful, first measure a spoonful and 
then cut it in halves, lengthwise. 

To measure a quarter-spoonful, measure a half-spoonful 
and divide it into half, crosswise, allowing a little more for 
tip of spoon. 

A saltspoon is one-fourth of a level teaspoon. 

A speck is a little less than one-eighth of a teaspoon. 

To measure butter, lard, and other solid fats, pack solidly 
into spoon or cup and level with knife. 

When recipe calls for one tablespoon (or so) of butter 
melted, measure before melting. When recipe calls for one 
tablespoon (or so) of melted luiter, measure after melting. 

TABLE OF MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 

.4 saltspoons =1 teaspoon, tsp. 

3 teaspoons =1 tablespoon, tbsp. 

4 tablespoons = i cup. or i gill. 

15 tablespoons (dry ingredients) = 1 cup, c. 

12 tablespoons (liquid) =1 cup. 



100 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



2 gills = 1 cup. 

2 cups ^1 pint. 

2 pints := 1 quart. 

4 quarts = 1 gallon. 

2 tablespoons butter := 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoon melted butter =1 ounce. 

4 tablespoons flour = 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar =1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons liquid =1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons powdered lime =1 ounce. 

1 cup of stale bread crumbs =2 ounces. 

1 square Baker's unsweetened chocolate .... =1 ounce. 
Juice of one lemon = ( about) 3 tablespoons. . . 

5 table spoons liquid ^1 wineglassful. 

4 cups of sifted flour = 1 pound. 

2 cups of butter (packed solid) =1 pound. 

2 cups of flnely chopped meat (packed solidly) = 1 pound. 

2 cups of granulated sugar =1 pound. 

2g cups of powdered sugar =1 pound. 

21 cups brown sugar =1 pound. 

21 cups oatmeal =1 pound. 

4| cups rolled oats ^1 pound. 

9 to 10 eggs ^1 pound. 

1 cup of rice := J pound. 

APOTHECARIES WEIGHTS 

"20 grains = 1 scruple, 3 

3 scruples .- = 1 drachm, 3 

8 drachms (or 480 grains) = 1 ounce, 5 

12 ounces = 1 pound, lb. 

APOTHECARIES MEASURES 

«0 minims (M) = 1 fluid drachm, f 3 

8 fluid drachms =1 fluid ounce, f ^ 

J6 fluid ounces =1 pint, or pt. 

2 pints = 1 quart, qt. 

4 quarts = 1 gallon, gal. 

APPROXIHATE MEASURES 

One teaspoonful equals about 1 fluid drachm. 

■One dessertspoonful equals about 2 fluid drachms. 

One tablespoo;iful equals about 4 fluid drachms. 

One wineglassful equals about 2 ounces. 

One cup (one-half pint) equals about 8 ounces. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 101 



UEIRIC SYSTESC 

For the origin and underlying principles of the metric 
system consult any modern arithmetic (Milne's Standard, for 
example). The nurse should know the metric tables and the 
equivalents between the metric and common systems for meas- 
ures of volume and weight. She does not require linear and 
square measure, nor measures of capacity except in a few 
instances. 

The subjoined tables and equivalents will suffice. 

TABLES 
Measures of Volume 

In measuring small quantities the cubic centimeter is the 
unit. 

1 cubic centimeter = 1.0 ce. 

10 cubic centimeters = 10.00 cc. 

1 cubic millimeter ^ 0.1 cc. 

1-100 cubic millimeter 1 __ ^ ^qj ^^ 

1-1000 cubic centimeter 

etc., etc. 



:} = 



MEASTTRES OE WEIGHT 

In measures of weight the gram is the unit. 

!1 gram 1.0 gm. 

1 decigram 0.1 gra. 

1 centigram 0.01 gm. 

1 milligram 0.001 gm. 

TABLE OF EaUIVALENTS 

Appended is a table of all the denominations of weights 
aad measures, opposite which are placed the metric system, , 
with corresponding equivalents in wine measure and avoirdu- 
pois weights: 



103 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



LIQUIDS 



APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 



EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



1 minim 

1 fl. drachm 

1 fl. oz 

4 fl. ozs. or i pint . . . 
8 fl. ozs. or i pint . . . 

16 fl. ozs. or 1 pint. . . 

2 pints 

4 pints or J gallon . . 
1 gallon 

1 Cubic centimeter 

4 Ce 

15 Cc 

25 Cc 

30 Cc 

60 Cc 

100 Cc 

120 Cc 

125 Cc 

235 Cc 

250 Cc 

300 Cc 

470 Cc 

500 Cc 

950 Cc 

1000 Cc. (1 Liter) ... 
4 Liters 



0.06 Cubic centi- 
metre 
4 Ce. 
30 Cc. 

118 Cc. (i Liter) 
236 Ce. (J Liter) 
473 Cc. (i Liter) 

1 Liter (1000 Cc.) 

2 Liters. 
4 Liters. 



0.061 Cc. 

3.696 Cc. 

29.574 Cc. 

118.295 Cc. 

236.590 Cc. 

473.197 Cc. 

.946 Liter. 

1.892 Liters. 

3.785 Liters. 



16 minims. 
1 fluid drachm. 
i fl. oz. (4 fl. drs.) 
61 fl. drs. 

1 fl. oz. 

2 fl. ozs. 
3i fl. ozs. 

4 fl. ozs. (i pint) 
4i fl. ozs. 
8 fl. ozs. (J pint) 
Si fl. ozs. 
10 fl. ozs. 
1 pint. 

1 pint 1 fl. oz. 

2 pints. 

2 1-10 pints. 
1 gallon. 



16.23 mins. 
1.082 fl. drs. 



drs. 
drs. 



4.057 fl. 

6.762 fl. 

1.014 fl. 

2.029 fl. 

3.381 fl. 

4.057 fl. 

4.227 fl. 

7.945 fl. 

8.453 fl. 
10.144 fl. 
15.892 fl. 

1.056 pints. 

2.007 pints. 

2.113 pints. 

1.056 gals. 



ozs, 

ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 
ozs. 



SOLIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1-500 erain 


0.00013 Gm. 
0.00043 Gm. 
0.00054 Gm. 
0.00065 Gm. 
0.001 Gm. 

(1 milligramme.) 


0.000129 Gm. 


1-150 gr. 


0.000432 Gm. 




0.000540 Gm. 




0.000648 Gm. 


1 (\d. ar 


0.001013 Gm. 







MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



103 



SOUDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQtIIVAI.ENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1-.50 ar 


0.0013 Gm. 
0.0016 Gm. 
0.002 Gm. 
0.0026 Gm. 
0.0065 Gm. 
0.021 Gm. 
0.065 Gm. 
0.3 Gm. 
(3 decigrammes.) 

1 Gm. 

2 Gm. 
4 Gm. 
3.5 Gm. 

14.2 Gm. 

28 Gm. 

56 Gm. 
113 Gm. 
225 Gm. 
450 Gm. 
900 Gm. 


001296 Gm 


1 -40 ar 


001620 Gm 


1-32 er 


002025 Gm. 


1-25 er 


0.002592 Gm. 


1-10 gr 


0.006479 Gm. 


1-3 er 


021599 Gm. " 


1 er 


0.064798 Gm. 




0.324 Gm. 




0.972 Gm. 


30 grs 


1.944 Gm. 


60 grs 


3.888 Gm. 




3.544 Gm. 


^ oz 


14.175 Gm. 




28.350 Gm. 


2 ozs 


56.699 Gm. 


1 lb 


113.398 Gm. 


1 lb 


226.796 Gm. 


1 lb 


453.592 Gm. 


2 lbs 


907.185 Gm. 






1 milligramme 

(0.001 Gm.) .... 
10 milligrammes 

(0.01 Gm.) 

(= 1 centigramme. ) 
100 milligrammes 

(0.1 Gm.) 


1-65 grain. 
1-6 gr. 

li grs. 

15 J grs. 

60 grs. (1 dr. Troy) 

i oz. 
i oz. 

1 oz. (437i grs.) 

2 ozs. 

3i ozs. 


0.015 grain. 
0.154 gr. 

1.543 grs. 
15.4324 grs. 


4 Gm 


61.729 grs. 


10 Gm. (1 deka- 

gramme) 

25 Gm 


154.324 grs. 
385.81 grs. 


28 Gm 


432.107 grs. 
1 oz. 426.7 grs. 


56 Gm 


100 Gm. (1 hekto- 

gramme) 


3 ozs. 230.7 grs. 


113 Gm 


4 ozs. (i lb.) 
7 ozs. 


3 ozs. 431.3 grs. 


200 Gm 


7 ozs. 24 grs. 



104 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



SOLIDS 



APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 



EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



7 ozs. 410 grs. 

8 ozs. 358 grs. 
15 ozs. 382 grs. 

1 lb. 1 oz. 279 grs. 

1 lb. 15 ozs. 327 grs. 

2 lbs. 3 ozs. 120 grs. 



225 Gm 

250 Gm 

450 Gm 

500 Gm 

900 Gm 

1000 Gm. (1 kilo- 
gramme or Kilo) 



8 ozs.' (J lb.) 

81 ozs. 

1 lb. (7000 grs.) 

1 1-10 lbs. 

2 lbs. 

2i lbs. 



TABLE rOK f BEPARING PERCENTAGE SOLUTIONS 

Public Charities and the Department of Bellevue and Allied 
Hospitals 1 

One fluid ounce of water, or 480 minims, weighs 456.4 
grains. One pint of water, or 7C80 minims, weighs 7300, or 
practically 7300 grains. Hence, a 10 per cent, solution, for 
instance, is one which contains 730 grains of some substance 
in 1 pint. 

The following table will show at a glance the quantity of 
any substance, by weight, required to prepare one pint of a 
solution : 

1. To Prepare One Pint of a Solution 



REQUIRED TO CONTAIN OF A CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



PER CENT. 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATER TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



T^ per cent. 

A " ■ 



10,000 
5,000 
4,000 
3,000 
2,500 
2,000 
1,500 
1,000 



Grains 



0.73 
1.46 
1.83 
2.44 
2.92 
3.65 
4.87 
7.30 



(1) 
(U) 

(11) 

(2i) 
(3) 
(3i) 
(41) 
(7i) 



^ Arranged by the Public Charities and the Department of Bellevue and 
Allied Ho£i)ita.lji. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



105 



KEQUIBED TO CONTAIN OP A CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



PER CENT. 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATER TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



i per cent 
I 



i 
1 

IJ 

2 

2J 

3 

4 

5 
10 
20 
25 
50 





in 


500 




in 


400 




in 


300 




in 


200 




in 


100 




in 


75 




in 


50 




in 


40 




in 


331 




in 


25 




in 


20 




in 


10 




in 


5 




in 


4 




in 


2 



Grains 



14.60 


(14J) 


18.25 


(18i) 


24.33 


(24i) 


36.50 


(36i) 


73.00 


(73) 


97.33 


(97) 


146.00 


(146) 


182.50 


(180) 


219.22 


(220) 


292.00 


(290) 


365.00 


(365) 


730.00 


(730) 


1460.00 


(1460) 


1825.00 


(1825) 


3650.00 


(3650) 



3. To Prepare One Fluid Ounce of a Solution 



BEQUIBED TO CONTAIN OF 
A SUBSTANCE 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 



0.1 per 
0.5 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 
10 



cent. 







APPROX. 




0.46 


grain 


(i 


Rr.) 




2.28 


it 


(2i 


" ) 




4.56 


" 


(4i 


" ) 




9.13 


(( 


(9 


" ) 


And 


13.69 


C( 


(131 


" ) 


enough 


18.26 


it 


(18i 


" ) 


water 


22.82 


€t 


(23 


" ) 


to 


27.38 


tc 


(27i 


" ) 


make 


31.95 


ti 


(32 


" ) 


1 fluid ounce 


36.51 


It 


(36i 


" ) 




41.08 


(t 


(41 


" ) 




45.64 


tt 


(45i 


" ) 





106 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



THERMOMETRY 

The thermometers used by the nurse in cookery, in regu- 
lating the heat of the room or in taking the patient's tempera- 
tures are chieily of the Fahrenheit scale. Scientists employ 
the Centigrade scale in most countries. While thermometers 
are made with both scales, it is a simple matter to translate 
the ordinary Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 

The freezing point of the latter is 0°, while that of the 
former is 33° above 0. 

The boiling point of the latter is 100°, while that of the 
former is 213°. 

Hence, to change Fahrenheit to Centigrade, we subtract 
32° from 313° in order that the freezing points correspond, 
which leaves 180° F.i= 100° Cc A degree Centigrade is 
therefore 5/9 of a degree Fahrenheit. 

To change Centigrade to Fahrenheit, every -Fahrenheit' de- 
gree is 9/5 times as large as a Centigrade degree. It is also 
necessary to add 33° to the result. 

Examples: Change 212° Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
212°— 32°= 180° X 5-9 = 100° C. 

Change 100° Centrigrade to Fahrenheit. 
100° X 9-5 = 180° -f 32° = 212° F. 



PAET II 

BEVEEAGES 

ANIMAL POODS 

VEGETABLE POODS 

NTJTEITIOUS DESSEETS 



CHAPTEE VIII 
BEVERAGES 

ACID — AlBTTMINOTJS — STARCHY — MISCEIIANEOTJS BEVER- 
AGES, INCLUDING TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, AND COCOA, 
AND SPECIAL NON-NTTTRITIVE BEVERAGES 

BcTerages serve primarily to relieve thirst. The universal 
beverage is water.^ Other beverages answer the' same pur- 
pose, because their chief constituent is -water. They are also 
taken for their temperature — cold or hot; for their flavor, 
which helps to arouse or appease the appetite; or for their 
stimulating properties. Usually they have little or no energy 
value, but when made with milk, eggs, cocoa, chocolate or 
other highly nutritive materials, they become a valuable 
means of administering food in a liquid form. 

All beverages need to be made with much care and served 
daintily. Hot drinks should be served at a temperature of 
133—140° F. When water is used it should be freshly 
drawn, brought to a boil and used at once. This serves to 
sterilize it and also to develop a better flavor. 

Cold drinks should be given thoroughly cooled, but iced 
liquids lower the temperature of the stomach unless sipped 
very slowly, and thus tend to retard digestion. They are 
therefore better for serving between meals than with them. 
Do not use ice in a beverage unless it is made from pure water, 
but cool by placing the receptacle on ice. Use a separate 
spoon, and taste every beverage just before serving to be sure 
it is properly seasoned and of correct temperature. 

Never allow a drink to stand any length of time in a sick 
room. If it has to be carriedT any distance, be sure that it 
is covered. 

1 See Water, page 23. 

109 



110 BEVERAGES 



ACID BEVEEAGES 



Beverages made from fruit juices are cooling and refresh- 
ing, and hence especially grateful to fever patients. They 
are valuable for the organic acids, mineral matter, and sugar 
which they contain. Some of them, as lemonade and orange- 
ade, have an added value in their diuretic and diaphoretic 
action. The organic acids are useful in constipation, as they 
stimulate peristaltic action. These acids vary with the kind 
of fruit; thus, apples contain malic acid; lemons, citric acid; 
grapes, tartaric acid, etc. These acids, as elsewhere stated,* 
occur in the form of acid salts, usually of potassium, and in 
the body are changed to carbonates, which preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. Eipe pineapple juice contains a ferment 
capable of digesting proteins. 

Wash lemons and oranges, and in using the juice remove 
the seeds, as they give a bitter taste. When the rind of lemon 
or orange is undesirable medicinally, it should not be used. 

Serve acid beverages daintily in glasses or sherbet cups 
(three-fourths filled), pass on small tray or plate, covered 
with doily, and add a few wafer crackers, or a single flower. 

Sweetening Acid DrinJcs. For the diabetic, sugar must be 
replaced by Sweetina. 

Whenever cold water is to be used instead of very hot or 
boiling water in preparing the drinks, it is preferable to use 
" sugar syrup " for sweetening in place of sugar, which re- 
quires time for solution. 

As the acidity of fruit varies considerably with the kind, 
and with the season of year, this, fact must be borne in mind 
while preparing the foregoing recipes, otherwise too much 
sugar may be added. 

STTGAB, STRTTP, 420 CAIORIES 

i/g cup of sugar. % cup of boiling water. 

Mix the sugar and water and stir until the sugar is dis- 

* See Mineriil Matter, p. 31, 



ACID BEVERAGES 111 

solved. Boil slowly, without stirring, for fifteen minutes; 
cool slightly and bottle. 

XEUONADE, 137 CALORIES 

1 lemon. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% eup boiling water. % thin slice lemon. 

Wash and wipe lemon; cut a very thin slice from middle. 
Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), add the 
sugar and boiling water; cover, and put on ice to cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. 

Cut half the slice of lemon into two pieces, and use as 
garnish in glass; or a few berries or slice of orange may be 
used. 

Note. — The quantity of sugar • used depends upon the 
acidity of fruit. 

FEUIT LEMONADE 
Add fresh fruit of all kinds to strong lemonade, using boil-, 
ing water for the beverage, cool, and chill on ice. 

BRAN LEMONADE, 20 CALORIES 
% cup wheat bran. ^ ^ - Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups cold water. t 

Allow the bran and water to stand overnight. Strain, and 
add the juice of the Jemon. 

SODA OR AFOLLINa'rIS LEMONADE, 137 CALORIES 

Juice of 1 lemon. %, teaspoon soda, free from 

1 or 2 tablespoons sugar. lumps. 

% cup cold water. 

Prepare the lemonade to taste, cool, add the soda, stir 
:horoughly, and drink while effervescing. 

Note. — Put glass on plate when soda is added. Water and 
ioda may be omitted and Apollinaris water substituted. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE, 186 CALORIES 

% cup grated pineapple or juice. % cup boiling water. 
Juice 1 lemon. 1 cup ice-cold water. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 



113 BEVERAGES 

Mix pineapple, lemon juice and sugar, and add the boiling 
water. Cool, add ice-cold water, strain and serve. 

Note. — Canned pineapple may be used or Hawaiian pine- 
apple juice. 

IRISH HOSS LEUONADE, 25 CALORIES i 

14 cup Irish moss. 4 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss (soaking 15 minutes). 
Drain and add the cold water; cook in top of double boiler 
about 30 minutes or until syrupy. If it becomes too thick, 
add hot water. Strain, add the lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Eeheat and serve hot. 

Excellent for sore throat and cold on the lungs, or any 
inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

GRAPE LEMONADE, 200 CALORIES 

Make one cup lemonade, rather sweet, add one-fourth cup 
Welch's Grape Juice. 

EGO LEUONABE 

See " Albuminous Beverages " for recipe. Page 131. 

ORANGEADE, 197 CALORIES 
1 sour orange. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% cup boiling water. % sli<^6 orange. 

Prepare as for lemonade. If orange is not very acid, add 
a little lemon juice or use less sugar. 

ORANGEADE NO. II, 77 CALORIES 

Put two tablespoons of crushed ice in dainty glasses and 
pour the juice of one orange over it. Sweeten if desired. 

ERUITADE, 45 CALORIES 
% cup grated pineapple 1 cup boiling water. 

Juice % lemon. Sugar. 

Juice Yg orange. 

Prepare fruit. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon 
sugar; allow to stand until cool. Add more water or sugar 
if necessary. Strain and serve cold. 

1 Without sugar. 



ACID BEVERAGES 113 

PINEAPI'LE JUICE, ABOUT 50 CAIORIES 
% cup Hawaiian Pineapple Juice. Crushed Ice. 

Pour the pineapple juice over crushed ice and serve in 
dainty glasses. This is delicious and has remedial qualities; 
especially valuable in throat and stomach trouble. 

lEMON WHEY, 96 CALORIES 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water, or in a 
double-boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook without stirring 
until the whey separates. Strain through cheese-cloth, and 
add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small pieces 
of slice of lemon. 

WINE WHEY, 84 CALORIES 

1 cup sweet milk. % cup sherry wine. 

Heat the milk to boiling point, add the wine, and cook with- 
out stirring until the milk separates. Strain through a fine 
strainer, and serve hot or cold. 

ACID PHOSPHATE 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a solution of the phosphates; 
of lime, magnesia, potash and iron with phosphoric acid,, 
in such form as to be readily assimilated by the system. It 
is thus a true nerve and tissue food. 

1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid Phos- 1 cup hot or cold water, 
phate. Sugar. 

Mix the Acid Phosphate with the water and sweeten with 
sugar, if desired. 

If the above should seem too- strong, or be found too stimu- 
lating, use one-half teaspoon of the Acid Phosphate. 

Note. — Horsford's Acid Phosphate can be substituted for 
lemon juice in any of the acid drinks. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY, 56 CAIORIES 

1 cup hot milk. 1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid Phos- 

2 teaspoons sugar. phate. 



114 BEVERAGES 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water or in 
a double boiler. Add the Acid Phosphate, Cook without 
stirring until the wliey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth and add the sugar. If more acid is desired, add two 
or three drops of Horsford's Acid Phosphate. Serve hot or 
cold. 

CREAM OF TARTAR DRINK 
1 or 1% teaspoons Cream. Lemon, 

of Tartar. Sugar. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Dissolve the cream of tartar in the boiling water, and 
"flavor with lemon and sugar. When cold strain. Take as a 
i-efrigerant drink and diuretic. 

MALTED MILK AND CURRANT JELLY, 85 CALORIES 
t tablespoon Horliek's Malted 1 tablespoon currant jelly. 

Milk. % cup cold water. 

% cup boiling water. Cracked ice. 

Mix the malted milk powder with a little of the boiling 
water to make a smooth paste, add the jelly and the rest of 
the water, and stir till the jelly is dissolved. Add the cold 
water and ice, strain and serve daintily in glass or sherbet 
cup, partly filled, and set on a small plate with doily. 

MALTED MILK WITH WINE, 88 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horliek's Malted 1 teaspoon port or sherry wine. 

Milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 
1 cup hot water. 

Mix the malted milk powder with enough of the hot water 
to make a smooth paste, then add gradually .the rest of the 
hot water, the wine, and sugar if desired. 

JELLY AND ICE 
With a large needle or pin, chip half a cup of ice into 
bits as large as a pea (or use an ice-scraper). Mix with it 
about the same quantity of lemon, currant, blackberry, or 
harberry jelly. Very refreshing in fevers. Be sure ice is 
perfectly pure. 



ACID BEVERAGES 115. 

GRAPE WATER, 135 CALORIES i 

4 tablespoons grape jelly. % cup cold water. 

V2 cup boiling water. Lemon juice and sugar. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water, then add the cold 
water, season to taste. Serve ice cold. 

CURRANT WATER, 100-125 CALORIES 1 

14 cup currant juice or % cup cold water. 

4 tablespoons currant jelly. Lemon juice and sugar. 

% cup boiling water. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water (put over heat a. 
few moments if it does not dissolve quickly). When dis- 
solved add the cold water, sweeten to taste, and add a little 
lemon juice, if desired. Serve cold. 

APPLE, WATER, 25 CALORIES 1 
1 sour apple. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wipe a rosy-cheeked sour apple, and, without paring it, 
cut it into small pieces. Add the boiling water and one table- 
spoon sugar. Cover, and let it stand till cold, then strain, 
and add lemon juice and sugar to taste. Serve cold. 

Note. — Dried apple may be substituted, or two baked ap- 
ples. 

RHUBARB WATER, 15 CALORIES 1 

1 stalk rhubarb. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and cut in thin slices, leaving^ 
on the skin. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon sugar. 
Cover, and let stand till cold. Strain, add lemon juice and 
sugar to taste, and serve cold. 

TAMARIND WATER, 60 CALORIES 2 

2 tablespoons preserved tama- 1 cup boiling water, 
rinds. Sugar. 

Pour the water over the tamarinds and lef stand one-half 
hour. Sweeten to taste, strain and serve cold. 

'Without lemon juice or sugar. 

2 Without sugar. Estimated from average composition of preserves. 



116 BEVERAGES 

lAKARIITS MALTED MILE, 115 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons Horliek's Malted % cup hot water. 
Milk. % cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon tamarinds. Cracked ice. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and hot 
■water, add preserved tamarinds and the cold water. Strain 
and chill, or add pure cracked ice. 

GKAFE JUICE 

(% cup = 120 Calories.) 

Partially fill a small glass with crushed ice, and add Welch's 
Grape Juice and serve. 

Grape juice is a tonic food and a medicine for the sick 
and convalescent. It may be served plain, cold or hot, or 
diluted with one-third water. It is preferable- to keep and 
serve the juice very cold. The bottles may be kept on ice 
until ready to serve. 

GRAPE LITHIA, 75 CALORIES 
Pour one ounce of Welch's Grape Juice into a glass, dis- 
solve in it two teaspoons of sugar, and add four ounces of 
lithia water. 

6RAFE NECTAR, 2750 CALORIES 
(About 2 Quarts.) 

Boil together one pound of sugar and one-half pint of 
Tvater until it spins a thiread ; remove from the fire, and when 
cool, add the juice of six lemons and one quart of Welch's 
Grape Juice. Let stand over night. Serve with ice water, 
Apollinaris or plain soda. 

TEA PTTNCH 
Few beverages find readier favor during the hot weather 
than tea punch. To make it, pour boiling lemonade, sweet- 
ened to taste, over the tea leaves, and allow the liquid to stand 
nntil cold. Then strain and serve in tall glasses, with shaved 
ice and slices of lemon. 



ACID BEVERAGES 117 

FRUIT PUNCH, 2100 CALORIES 
(3 Quarts.) 

2 large teaspoons tea. 3 oranges. 

2 quarts boiling water. 1 pineapple. 

1 pound lump sugar. 5 bananas. 

8 lemons. 1 pint strawberries. 

Steep the tea in the boiling water for five minutes, strain 
and add the sugar, stirring until thoroughly dissolved. Grate 
the rind of the lemons and extract all the juice. Cut the 
oranges into slices, shred the pineapple, slice the bananas 
very thin and hull the strawberries. When the tea is cold 
add all the fruit, and let stand in the refrigerator for several 
hours. Place a cube of ice in the punch-bowl, pour the mix- 
ture around it, and when well chilled serve in punch glasses. 
If desired, one cup of Maraschino cherries may be added. 

To get the best results from the pineapple, pare and remove 
the eyes, tear apart with a silver knife and fork, reject the 
core, sprinkle with sugar and let stand on ice for twelve 
hours. 

While fresh fruits are always preferable, canned berries 
and pineapples may be substituted. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI PUNCH, 2300 CALORIES 
(3 Quarts.) 

2 quarts water. 2 tangerine oranges. 

1 pound sugar. 4 slices pineapple. 

2 lemons. 1 banana. 

4 oranges. 1 pint Maraschino cherries. 

2 dozen Malaga grapes. 

Boil together for five minutes the water and sugar. Add 
the grated rind of two lemons and four oranges, and continue 
boiling for ten minutes longer. Strain the syrup through 
cheese-cloth, and add one quart of cold water. Extract the 
juice from the lemons and oranges, strain and mix with two 
dozen Malaga grapes, cut in half and seeded, the tangerine 
oranges sliced, the pineapple shredded, the banana cut in 
slices, and one pint bottle of Maraschino cherries with their 



118 BEVERAGES 

liquor. Add the fruit to the syrup, chill and serve same as 
JFruit Punch. 

ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 

When a large amount of nutriment is required the al- 
buminized drinks^are valuable. 

The egg is a fluid food until its albumin is coagulated by 
heat. Often the white of egg, dissolved in water or milk, 
and flavored, is given when the yolk cannot be digested, as 
30 per cent, of thfe yolk is fat. Egg-nog is very nutritious, 
and is extensively prescribed in certain non-febrile diseases, 
especially for the forced alimentation of phthisis and melan- 
<;holia. There are occasional cases of bilious habit, in which 
eggs to be digested must be beaten in wine. But the combi- 
nation of egg, milk and sugar with alcohol, which constitutes 
egg-nog, is apt to produce nausea and vomiting in a feeble 
stomach, especially in fever. For this reason whole eggs are 
unfit for fever patients, and the whites only should be u^d. 

Albuminized drinks are most easily prepared cold. When 
a hot liquid is used, it must be poured very slowly into the 
well-beaten egg, stirring constantly, so that lumps of coagu- 
lated albumin do not form. 

For the Diabetic. In all the albuminous drinks substitute 

Sweetina for the sugar. The fuel value will be 60 calories 

less in every recipe than when one tablespoon of sugar is 

used. 

ENEKGT VAITJE OF AN EGG 

1 medium egg (without shell) ^60 Calories. 

1 white of egg (average) ^13 " 

1 yolk of egg (average) =48 " 

EGG BROTH, 319 CALORIES i 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

Brandy or some other stimulant if required. 

Beat egg, add sugar and salt. Pour on carefully the hot 
milk. Flavor as desired, if with brandy or wine, use about 
one tablespoon. 

^ Calculated with 1 tbsp. brandy. 277 Calories if brandy is omitted. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 119 

Note. — Dried ahd rolled bread crumbs may be added, if 
desired. The whole egg may be used. Hot water, broth or 
coffee, may be substituted, for the milk; nutmeg may be sub- 
stituted for the stimulant. 

EGG-NOG NO. I, 231 CALORIES i 
1 egg. % cup milk. 

Speck salt. 1% tablespoon wine or 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt ; blend thoroughly, add 
the milk and liquor. Serve immediately. 

Note. — Have eggs and milk chilled before blending. A 
grating of nutmeg may be substituted for the stimulant. A. 
lemonade shaker may be used for the blending. 

EGG-NOG NO. II, 231 CALORIES i 

1 egg. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Speck salt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt, and beat*until 
creamy. Add the milk and brandy. Beat the white till 
foamy (not stiff and dry), and fold it in lightly. Serve im- 
mediately. 

JTTNKET EGG-NOG, 304 CALORIES i 

1 egg. 2 teaspoons rum, brandy, or 

1 cup milk. wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

.Beat white and yolk of egg separately, very light; blend 
the two. Add the sugar dissolved in the rum. Heat the 
milk lukewarm, stir into the egg mixture, and add quickly 
the tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour into small warm 
glasses, and sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top. Stand in 
warm room undisturbed until firm, and then put on ice to 
cool. This can be retained by the most delicate stomach. 

• Without liquor. 



120 BEVERAGES 

BEEF EGG-NOG, 200 CAIOSIES 

1 egg. % cup hot beef broth. 

Speck salt. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

Beat the egg slightly, add the salt and sugar; add grad- 
ually the hot broth; add brandy and strain. Sugar and 
brandy may be omitted if preferred. 

COFFEE EGG-NOG, 175 CALORIES i 

1 egg. % scant cup milk or cream. 

lYg teaspoon sugar. % scant cup strong coffee. 

Chill ingredients, and blend as for Egg-nog No. II. 

PINEAPPLE EGG-NOG 
Prepare as per Egg-nog No. I or II ; omit the brandy and 
use pineapple juice to taste. • -.^ < 

EGG AND RTJM, 315 CALORIES - 

Famous in the Treatment of Phthisis 
1 cup fresh milk. Speck salt. 

Yolk 1 egg. Few grains nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon rum. 

Beat yolk, add sugar, salt and nutmeg; add milk and rum. 

Note. — For consumptives, taken at about 6 a. m., often 
prevents the exhausting sweats which accompany the morn- 
ing doze. Also may be given to a patient before dressing to 
prevent exhaustion. 

EGG AND BRANDY, 350 CALORIES 2 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoons brandy. 

4 tablespoons cold water. Sugar. 
Nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs, add cold water, brandy and sweeten to taste. 

A little nutmeg may be added. Give a tablespoonful at a 

time. 

EGG AND WINE, 125 CALORIES 2 

1 egg. 1 wineglass sherry. 

% cup cold water. Nutmeg. 

Sugar. 

1 Calculated with milk. 
^ Without sugar. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 131 

Beat the egg. Heat the water and wine together but not 
boiling; pouv onto the egg, stirring constantly; flavor with 
sugar and nutmeg. 

EGG lEMONADE, 192 CAIORIES 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup cold water. 

Beat the egg thorouglily, add the sugar and lemon juice; 
pour in gradually the water, stirring until smooth and well 
mixed. Strain and serve. Two tablespoons of sherry or port 
may be added if desired. 

MALTED MIXK AND EGG, 120 CALORIES 

-1 — tnWcBpoon Horliek's Malted 20 drops acid phosphate. 
Milk. 1 tablespoon crushed ice. 

1 tablespoon crushed fruit. % cup ice water. 

1 egg. 

Mix the malted millf powder, crushed fruit and egg and 
beat iive minutes. Add the phosphate and crushed ice, blend- 
ing thoroughly. Strain and add ice water or cold carbonated 
"water, and a grating of nutmeg to flavor. 

STOKES MIXTUKE 

Eggs and Brandy = 196 Calories. 

" 2 egg yolks, 50 c. c. of brandy, 130 c. c. of aqua aurantii 
florun (sugar or syrup enough to sweeten), has consider- 
able nutritive, as well as stimulative, value, and is eligible 
for use when such a combination is indicated." 

GRAPE YOLK, 150 CALORIES 
1 egg. 2 tablespoons Welch's Grape 

1 tablespoon sugar. Juice. 

Speck salt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and stand aside while 
the white is thoroughly whipped. , Add the grape juice to the 
yolk and pour this onto the whipped white, blending care- 
fully. Serve cold. ' Have all ingredients chilled before blend- 
ing. 



122 BEVERAGES 

GRAFE jnCE AND EGG, 270 CALORIES 
1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

% cup rich milk. ^ cup Welch's Grape Juice. 

Beat yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk 
add milk, sugar and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the 
white add a little powdered sugar and a taste of grape juice. 
Serve on yolk mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 

KTrilES WINE, 2S0-2S0 CALORIES 
1 ounce stick cinnamon. % cup sherry, port, or claret 

A slight grating nutmeg. wine. 

% cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. 

Put the spices into top of a double boiler with the water. 
Cover and cook over hot water ten minutes. Add wine to the 
spiced water and bring to the boiling point. Beat the egg 
to a stifE froth, add sugar and pour on the mulled wine, and 
beat well. Serve at once. 

ALBUniNIZES MILK, 98 CALORIES 
^4 cup milk (sterile). Salt. 

White 1 egg. 

Put milk and white of egg in a glass fruit jar, cover with 
air tight cap and rubber band. Shake until thoroughly 
blended. Strain into glass. A few grains of salt may be 
added if desired. 

Note. — The blending may be done in a lemonade shaker. 

ALBUUIinZEI) WATER, 13 CALORIES i 
% cup ice-cold water Lemon juice. 

(Ijoiled and chilled). Sugar. 

White 1 egg. 

Blend as for " Albuminized Milk," serve plain or add lemon 
juice and sugar to taste. If set on ice to keep cool, shake 
before serving. 

ALBUMIN WATER (EOR INFANTS), 13 CALORIES 
Albumin water is utilized chiefly in cases of acute stomach 
and intestinal disorders in which some nutritious and easily 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 123 

assimilated food is needed ; albumin water is then very useful. 
The white of one egg is dissolved in eight ounces or a pint 
of water which has been boiled and cooled. — Koplik. 

ALBTJUINIZED CIAH WATER, 18 CALORIES 

1 cup cold water. White 1 egg. 
Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired, add the unbeaten white of egg, 
and follow general directions for " Albuminized Milk." 
Serve cold in dainty glasses. This is a very nutritious drink, 
and will be retained by the stomach when other nourishment 
is rejected. 

Xote. — Milk may be substituted for the water. 

ALBUMINIZES ORANGE, 30 CALORIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

Juice 1 orange. 

To the unbeaten white add the orange juice, sweeten to 
taste and blend thoroughly. Strain ancl set on ice to cool. 
Serve cold. 

ALBUMINIZED SHERRY, 22 CALORIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

Yg to 1 tablespoon sherry. 

Beat the white stiff, add slowly, while beating, the wine and 
sugar. Serve cold. 

Xote. — Have all ingredients cold before blending. 

ALBUMINIZED GRAPE JUICE, 40 CALORIES i 

2 tablespoons Welch's Sugar. 
Grape Juice. Chopped ice. 

White 1 egg. 

Put in a dainty glass the grape juice, and the beaten white 
of egg and a little pure chopped. ice; sprinkle sugar over the 
top and serve. 

1 Without sugar. 



uga: 



124 BEVERAGES 



STARCHY BEVERAGES 



Starchy drinks consist of cereals or cereal products, co(Jked 
thoroughly in a large amount of water and strained before 
serving. Arrowroot, cornstarch, tapioca, rice and rice flour 
are nearly pure starch. Oats, barley and wheat in forms 
which include the whole grains contain besides starch some 
protein and fat, and also valuable mineral matter, especially 
phosphorus, iron, and calcium salts.^ In starchy drinks, 
these ingredients are necessarily present in small amounts; 
hence they have little energy value, unless milk or other 
highly nutritive material is added. Such drinks are of value 
when only a small quantity of nutriment can be taken. 

■Principles of Coolcing. As the chief ingredient is starch, 
long cooking is necessary, in water at a high temperature 
(213° F.), which softens the cellulose, and breaks open the 
starch grains, changing the insoluble starch to soluble starch 
and dextrin, so that it can be very readily digested. Time 
of cooking should be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

Digestion. The action of .ptyalin is very rapid, and if these 
drinks are sipped slowly, so as to be thoroughly mixed with 
saliva, a considerable portion of starch may be changed to 
sugar before reaching the intestines. 

BARLEY WATER, 180 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons pearl barley. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or 
over night; in same water, boil gently over direct heat two 
hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to one 
pint if used for infant feeding, and to one cup for the adult. 
Strain through muslin. 

Kote. — Cream or milk and salt may be added, or lemon 
juice and sugar. Barley water is an astringent or demulcent 
drink used to reduce laxative condition. 

1 See Mineral Matter, p. 31. 



STARCHY BEVERAGES 125 

BARLEY WATEK (INFANT FEEDING), 19 CAIORIES 

1 teaspoon barley flour. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 tablespoons cold water. 

Blend flour and cold water to a smooth paste in top of 
double boiler; add gradually the boiling water. Boil over 
direct heat five minutes, stirring constantly, then put over 
boiling water and cook 15 minutes longer, stirring frequently. 
Older infants take the barley water in much more concentrated 
form. Barley water is used as a diluent with normal infants 
and in forms of diarrhoea. 

Note. — For children or adults, use % tablespoon barley or 
rice flour, 1 cup boiling water, i/^ teaspoon salt. 

MCE WATER, 100 CALORIES i 

2 tablespoons rice. Salt. 

3 cups cold water. Milk. 

Wash the rice; add cold water and soak thirty minutes, 
heat gradually to boiling point and cook one hour or until 
rice is tender. Strain, reheat and dilute with boiling water 
or hot milk to desired consistency. Season with salt. 

Note. — ■ Sugar may be added if desired, and cinnamon, if 
allowed, may be cooked with it, and will assist in reducing a 
laxative condition. 

RICE WATER NO. II, 160 CALORIES 
3 tablespoons rice. 1 tablespoon stoned raisins. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Wash rice, put into saucepan with water and raisins; boil 
gently for one hour. Strain. When cold serve. Sugar or 
salt may be added to taste. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in bowel trouble. 

OATMEAL WATER, 50 CALORIES 
1 tablespoon oatmeal. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 1 quart boiling water. 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt and stir into the 
Doiling water. Boil three hours; replenish the water as it 

' Without milk. 



136 BEVERAGES 

toils away. Strain through a fine sieve or cheese cloth. 
Season, serve cold. Different brands of oatmeal vary consid- 
erably in the amount of water which they take up in cooking, 
and sufficient should always be added to make this drink al- 
most as thin as water. 

OATMEAI WATER NO. II, 220 CALORIES i 

% cup fine oatmeal. 1 quart water. 

Use sterile water (boiled and cooled). Add oatmeal and 
stand in warm place (covered), for one and one-half hours. 
Strain, season, and cool. Sometimes used for dyspeptics. 

TOAST WATER, 350 CALORIES 

1 cup stale bread toasted. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Cut bread in thin slices and in inch squares. Dry thor- 
oughly in oven until crisp and a delicate brown. Measure, 
and break into crumbs; add the water and let it stand one 
hour. Eub through a fine strainer, season and serve hot or 
cold. The nourishment of the bread is easily absorbed in 
this way and valuable in cases of fever or extreme nausea. 

Note. — Milk or cream and sugar may be added. 

CRXrST COFFEE 

Take some pieces and crusts of brown bread and dry them 
in a slow oven until thoroughly hard and crisp. Place in a 
mortar and pound or roll. Pour boiling water over and let 
soak for about fifteen minutes. This when strained carefully 
is very acceptable to invalids who are tired of the ordinary 
drinks, such as lemonade, etc. 

CRACKER PANADA, 100 CALORIES 2 

4 hard crackers. Sugar. 

1 quart water. 

Break crackers into pieces and bake quite brown ; add water 
and boil fifteen minutes, allow to stand three or four minutes. 
Strain off the liquid through a fine wire sieve ; season with salt 

* Estimated on one-half the oatmeal. 
' Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVEBAGES IS? 

and a little sugar. This is a nourishing beverage for infants 
that are teething, and with the addition of a little wine and 
nutmeg, is often prescribed for invalids recovering from a 
fever. 

BREAD FAITABA, 162 CALORIES 
1% cups water. 14 cup white wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons stale white bread Nutmeg, 
crumbs. 

Put water and sugar on to cook, just before it commences 
to boil add the bread crumbs; stir well, and let it boil three 
or four minutes. Add the wine, lemon and a grating of nut- 
meg ; let it boil up once, remove from fire, and keep it closely 
covered until it is wanted for use. 

MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 

TEA — COFFEE —CHOCOLATE — COCOA AND SPECIAL NON-NTT- 
TRITIVE BEVERAGES 

TEA 

Source. The tea of commerce is prepared from the leaves 
of a shrub cultivated for this purpose in China, Japan, India, 
Ceylon, and other portions of Southern^ and Eastern Asia. 

Classes of Tea. There are two great classes of tea, the 
green and the black. The difference lies in the mode of 
preparation. Green teas are quickly dried and fired; black 
teas are allowed to ferment a few hours before drying and 
firing. 

Active Principles of Tea. Tea has practically no food 
value. Its principal constituents are caffein, tannic acid, and 
a volatile oil. 

Its flavor is due to the -volatile oil; its stimulating prop- 
erties to the caffein. Tannic acid is a soluble, bitter sub- 
stance, which has a retarding effect on digestion. 

When tea leaves are placed in boiling water, caffein is ex- 
tracted very rapidly. Tannic acid is less soluble, and there- 
fore it is possible to make tea with little of this principle by 
letting the water stand on the leaves only a short time. In 



128 BEVERAGES 

practice, the hot, but not boiling water, should stand on the 
tea from 3 to 5 minutes. The water should be soft, as 
lime in hard water tends to make tannin dissolve more freely. 
Green or mixed tea is more powerful than black tea. 

Effects of Tea. Tea is mildly stimulating and hence re- 
freshing, as it removes the sense of bodily fatigue. But the 
tannic acid retards the digestive action of the saliva and gas- 
tric juice, and tends to produce constipation. Tea is there- 
fore not suitable for persons suffering from gastric disorders. 
The caffein is over-stimulating to the nervous system of 
many persons, causing restlessness, sleeplessness and muscular 
tremors. It should not be given to children, nor to adults 
with a tendency to nervousness. If you wish to avoid the 
retarding effect of tea on salivary digestion, direct the patient 
not to sip the beverage with the meal, but to eat first and 
drink afterward; in this way time is given for the saliva 
to perform its intended functions. 

Tea is less likely to cause sleeplessness if lemon juice is 
substituted for milk. 

COFFEE 

Source. This beverage is prepared from the seeds of the 
cofiEee tree (Caffea arabica), which grows in many warm 
countries, though originally found in Arabia. The coffee 
berry is about the color and size of a ripe cherry, and con- 
tains two seeds placed face to face. 

Active Principles of Coffee. The active principles of cof- 
fee are essentially the same as those in tea. By the roasting 
process a volatile oil is liberated (called cafleol) to which the 
aroma is due. The caffein is chemically the same as in tea, 
and according to Hutchison (p. 310), a cup of black coffee 
contains about as large a quantity of caffein and tannic acid 
as a cup of tea. 

Effects of Coffee. Coffee has only a slight retarding in- 
fluence on salivary digestion, compared with tea, but an 
equally detrimental effect on gastric digestion. 

As a stimulant it effects more directly the central nervous 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 129 

system; the heart action is considerably increased in rate 
as well as strength. Indirectly, this results in an increased 
activity of the kidneys. The respiration is deepened and the 
cerebral centers excited. For this reason it often proves use- 
ful in cases of opium and alcoholic poisoning. In some per- 
sons these effects are very mild; in others, they are severe, 
producing nervousness and insomnia, and coffee should be 
•withheld. It removes the sensation of fatigue, for .v^hich 
reason it is used by many nurses when on night duty. It 
should never be given to children. 

Coffee or tea taken tvith either milk or sugar alone is much 
more healthful and less likely to cause ill effects than when 
both are used. 

Frequently after operation freshly made black coffee or 
tea without milk or sugar will be retained, and in some cases 
check vomiting. Give the patient one-half teaspoonful at 
frequent intervals. 

Many preparations have been put upon the market as 
coffee substitutes, but they lack the aromatic oil and caffein 
for which it is really prized. They make, however, pleasing 
hot beverages, and served with sugar and cream, have a food 
value. 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Source. Cocoa and chocolate are commercially prepared 
from the seeds of the cocao tree, Theobroma cocao. The seeds 
(or beans) are contained in a pulpy fruit 7-12 inches long, 
3-5 inches in diameter, in shape intermediate between a melon 
and a cucumber. The fruit is gathered and allowed to re- 
main in a heap to ferment a few days, when the pulp becomes 
loosened. The seeds lose some of their bitterness during this 
process, upon which the flavor of the bean largely depends. 
They are then dried in the sun, cleaned and sorted, and care- 
fully roasted. After this the thin outer husks are removed 
and sold under the name of cocoa shells. The broken roasted 
beans constitute cocoa nibs. 

Chocolate is prepared by grinding the nibs between hot 
rollers to a great degree of fineness. The presence of 50 per 



130 BEVERAGES 

cent, fiat causes the mass to form a paste. This is molded 
and cooled with or without the addition of sugar and flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoa consists of chocolate deprived of a part of the fat. 
Sugar or starch or both, are sometimes added. 

Resemblance to Tea and Coffee. Chocolate and cocoa con- 
tain a volatile oil, set free by the fermentation process and 
further modified by roasting, to which the characteristic 
flavor is due. They also contain tannic acid, but in smaller 
amount than in tea or coffee. The stimulating principle 
of chocolate and cocoa is an alkaloid closely allied to caffein, 
called theobromin. It is less apt to induce nervous symptoms 
than either tea or coffee, but in many persons their stimulat- 
ing power is distinctly felt. 

Nutritive Value. Unlike tea and coffee, chocolate and co- 
coa have a high food value, as shown by the following 
analysis : 





Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Mineral 
Matter 


Water 


Calories 
per lb. 


Chocolate 


12.5% 


47.1% 


26.8% 


3.3% 


10.3% 


2720 


Breakfast Cocoa 


21.6% 


28.9% 


37.7% 


7.2% 


4.6% 


2320 



By reason of the high percentage of fat, chocolate is likely 
to cause indigestion when used to excess, or when taken in 
addition to an otherwise heavy meal. Cocoa, being less rich 
in fat, is free from this objection. 

The use of cocoa often makes milk acceptable when it 
would otherwise be refused. Hence this beverage is good 
in convalescence, if there are no digestive disturbances. When 
made weak, it can also be given to children in moderation. 

Principles of Coohing. Chocolate and cocoa both contain 
considerable starch, and hence should be boiled to be di- 
gestible. The cooked starch also serves to thicken the bev- 
erage somewhat, and to make it smoother and more homo- 
geneous. On account of the volatile oil to which the flavor 
is due, the cooking should be continued only long enough to 
alter the starch, otherwise the oil is lost. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 131 

TEA 
(Individual Rule.). 
1 teaspoon tea. 1 cup boiling water. 

Scald the teapot, which should be silver, crockery or granite 
ware, not tin. Put in the tea, add the freshly boiling water 
and let it infuse three to five minutes. By no means allow 
it to boil, for boiling dissipates the aroma and extracts the 
tannin. Strain into hot cup and serve with cream or milk 
and lump sugar, or with sugar and a slice of lemon. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

Heat cup, fill three-fourths full of boiling water and dip in 
it two teaspoons tea (put in tea-ball or fine small strainer), 
until strong enough. Serve hot with sugar and a slice of 
lemon. 

Note. — Lemon is a good substitute for milk. The lemon 
prevents the headache and sleeplessness which the milk in 
tea causes to some persons. 

COFFEE MADE IN THE FERCOIATER 
Breakfast CofiFee. After-Dinner Coffee. 

2 tablespoons cofifee. Increase quantity of coflFee to 

1 cup cold water. suit the taste. 

Prom the percolator take out the cup with its tube, fill the 
percolator with the quantity of water desired, replace cup and 
tube (covering tube with thumb), and put in the coffee, then 
put on the spreader plate and cover. Cook fifteen minutes. 

Note. — If warm or hot water is used it takes less time for 
cooking. Never use boiling water. It takes a little longer 
with the urns than with the pots. 

"WTien heat is applied to the foot of the pot, a jet of water 
lukewarm at first, but quickly increasing in temperature as 
the pumping process goes on, is forced up through the tube, 
falls on the spreader plate; by it, it is evenly distributed over 
the coffee, through which it percolates down into the pot 
again. This pumping continues until the water reaches the 
boiling point, when water and steam together come up 
through the tube. The coffee is thus ready to serve. 



133 BEVERAGES 

Coffee made in this way has a delicious aroma, a fiae ilavor 
and an absence of the bitter taste caused by boiling. Many 
can drink coffee made in this way that cannot when made 
in other ways. 

Buy coffee in the berry and grind it fresh every day, for 
ground coffee soon loses its aroma. 

BOILED COFFEE 
(To make seven cups of coffee.) 

1 cup coffee. 6 cups boiling water. 
Yji egg and shell. 1 cup cold water. 

Scald coffee pot. Wash egg, beat slightly and add crushed 
shell, coffee and one-half cup cold water. Put into scalded 
coffee pot, add boiling water and let boil up three times, 
stirring down after each time (or boil five minutes) ; then 
add one-half cup cold water. Let it stand 20 minutes where 
it M'ill keep hot but not boil. Serve in hot coffee cups with 
cream and sugar, or hot milk may be used in place of cream. 

Note. — A favorite blend of coffee is three parts Java and 
one part Mocha. 

BOILED COFFEE 
(Individual Bule.) 

2 tablespoons coffee. % cup boiling water. 

1 egg shell or 1 teaspoon % cup cold water, 
egg white. 

Follow general directions for blending in preceding recipe. 
Boil three minutes and keep hot 15 minutes. 

For the Diabetic. The following varieties may be used. 
Pour coffee into a slightly beaten egg or yolk ; or one teaspoon 
butter; or heavy cream. Substitute Sweetina for sugar. 

FILTERED COFFEE 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons finely ground % cup boiling water. 

coffee. 

Place a piece of filter paper over a strainer and put the 
coffee in it. Hold the strainer over a hot coffee cup and pour 
the boiling water slowly over the coffee. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 133 

FILTERED COFFEE HO. II 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons coffee. 1 cup boiling water. 

Grind the coffee very fine, put it into the upper part of 
a double coffee pot and pour the boiling water through it. 
Let it stand a few minutes on the back of the stove, where 
it will not boil. Then remove it and serve hot. 

HALTED MILK COFFEE, 59 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) . 
1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 tablespoon ground coffee. 

Mix the malted milk powder, coffee and water, stirring 
well. Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired. 

Or one to four teaspoons of malted milk powder may be 
put in a cup and ordinary coffee poured directly upon it, 
stirring constantly. 

CEREAL COFFEE 
(Two Cups.) 
4 tablespoons cereal coffee. % saltspoon butter. 

1 pint cold water. 

Put the cereal into coffee pot; add cold water and butter, 
when it reaches the boiling point, boil 15 minutes. Al- 
ways allow 25 minutes to make cereal coffee; 10 minutes to 
come to the boiling point and 15 minutes for the boiling 
(not violent boiling). Serve with sugar and hot milk or 
cream. 

Xote. — As cereal coffee is made of browned grain, it is a 
wholesome drink, and is not stimulating. Butter is added to 
keep the coffee from boiling over. 

BREAKFAST COCOA, 957 CALORIES 

(To make six cups of cocoa.) 

3 tablespoons Walter Baker's 1 cup boiling water, 
cocoa. 3 cups scalded milk. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

1 Without sugar. 



134 BEVERAGES 

Scald milk in double boiler. Put the cocoa and sugar in 
a saucepan and slowly pour on the hot water, stirring all the 
time. Boil five minutes, add the scalded milk, beat until 
foamy with Dover egg beater to prevent formation of skin. 
Serve in heated cups. One-half cup of cream is a great addi- 
tion to cocoa. 

BREAKFAST COCOA, 197 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
2 teaspoons Walter Baker's % cup boiling water, 

cocoa. % cup scalded milk. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

Follow general directions for blending and cooking in pre- 
ceding recipe. Boiling three minutes. 

Note. — Cocoa may be served hot or ice cold, with or with- 
out whipped cream. It may be served hot, poured over the 
beaten white or yolk of egg. One-third teaspoon of brandy 
may be added if ordered by the physician. 

MALTED MILK COCOA, 83 CALORIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 teaspoon cocoa. 

Mix the malted milk powder, cocoa and water, stirring well. 
Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired and serve hot. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 1220 CALORIES 

(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. % tablespoon cornstarch. 

2 ounces Walter Baker's choco- 3 tablespoons sugar, 
late. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with one-fourth cup of the milk. Put 
remainder of milk in double boiler to heat. When the milk 
is scalded, stir in the cornstarch and cook ten minutes. 
Scrape the chocolate and put it in a small saucepan; add 
sugar and water and place the saucepan over hot water. Stir 

^Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 135 

«onstantly until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Add the 
hot milk and beat the mixture M'ith egg beater until frothy; 
or it may be poured back and forth from the boiler to a 
pitcher, holding high the vessel from which it is poured. 
This will give a thick froth. Serve at once. 

Note. — If you prefer not to thicken the chocolate, omit 
the cornstarch. 

Whipped cream may be served with chocolate, or it may 
be poured onto the beaten yolk of egg. 

If desired, flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 305 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. % tablespoon cornstarch. 

Yz ounce chocolate. % tablespoon sugar. 

Following directions for blending and cooking in preced- 
ing recipe. 

CHOCOLATE, VIEKWA STYLE, 1427 CALORIES 

(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 
4 ounces Walter Baker's vanilla 1 tablespoon sugar. 

chocolate. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Scrape chocolate and put 
sugar and water into a small saucepan; heat over hot water, 
stirring till smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into the 
hot milk and beat well with an egg beater. Serve at once, 
putting a tablespoon of whipped cream in each cup, and 
filling with the chocolate. 

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla, 
but in that case use one teaspoon vanilla and three generous 
tablespoons sugar. 

CHOCOLATE MILK SHAKE, 295 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons chopped ice. Vs cup milk. , 

2 tablespoons chocolate syrup. % cup soda water or Apollinaris 

3 tablespoons whipped cream. water. 



136 BEVERAGES 

Shake or stir well before drinking. A tablespoon of 
vanilla ice-cream is a desirable addition. It is a delicious 
drink, even if the soda or Apollinaris water be omitted. 

A plainer drink is made by combining the syrup, three- 
fourths cup milk and the ice, and shaking well. 

CHOCOLATE SYErP — USED IN PRECEDING, 2093 CALORIES 

(One Tablespoon = 65 Calories.) 
1 ounce (3 tablespoons) Walter 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Baker's soluble chocolate. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Put chocolate in a saucepan and add the water gradually, 
stirring all the time. Add sugar and stir till it begins to 
boil ; boil three minutes, strain, cool and add one tablespoon 
vanilla. Bottle, and keep in a cold place. 

SPECIAL NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 

FLAXSEED TEA 

1 tablespoon whole flaxseed. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Wash flaxseed thoroughly, put it with the cold water in a 
saucepan, simmer one hour, add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste and strain. 

Note. — If too thick, add hot water. 

Valuable in case of inflammation of the mucous membrane., 

CINNAMON WATER 
1 ounce stick cinnamon. 1 pint boiling water. 

Boil together fifteen minutes. Strain. Serve hot or cold. 

Note. — Good in bowel trouble. The pure cinnamon is 
quite different from the coarse bark usually sold for cinna- 
mon, which is really only cas^a. 

FLAXSEED AND LICORICE TEA 

1 ounce flaxseed. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 drachms licorice root. 



NON-NUTBITIVE BEVERAGES 137 

Pour the boiling water over whole flaxseed and bruised 
licorice-root, cover and cook very slowly for four hours. 
Strain. 

LIJIE WATER 

1 tablespoon of slaked lime. 1 quart boiled or distilled water. 

Put the lime and water in a corked bottle and shake thor- 
oughly two or three times during the first hour. The lime 
should then be allowed to settle, and after twenty-four hours 
the upper clear fluid carefully poured or siphoned off into 
a glass-stoppered bottle. Keep tightly corked, as it absorbs 
carbon dioxide from the air. Keep in a cool place. 

BRAN TEA 
% cup wheat bran. Egg shell. 

2 cups cold water. Molasses, lemon juice. 

Boil the water and bran twenty minutes, and settle it with 
an egg shell or a little cold water. Sweeten with molasses, 
and lemon juice can be used if desired. 

SIIPPERY EIM TEA 
2 teaspoons slippery elm pow- Sugar. 

der or piece of the bark. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pour the water upon the slippery-elm powder or bark. 
"VATien cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice and sugar. 
This is soothing in case of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

HERB TEA 

Pour one cup of boiling water over two tablespoons of 
herbs. Cover the bowl, set it over the tea-kettle and steep 
ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. 

GINGER TEA 
Mix one tablespoon of molasses with one-half teaspoon of 
ginger; pour on gradually one-half cup boiling water, and 
boil one minute. Add one-half cup milk and when thor- 
oughly heated, serve. 



CHAPTEB IX 
ANIMAL FOODS 

The important foods derived from the animal kingdom are 

— Meat — Poultry and Game — Fish — Shell Fish — Eggs 

— Milk and Milk Products — Sweetbreads — Gelatin — Beef 
Preparations — Meat Broth and Jellies. 

Composition. Milk is the only animal food in which all 
the nutrients are represented in forms and proportions suit- 
able to supply all the needs of the body. It is properly called 
a " complete food." Eggs, also often called " complete food," 
contain both body-building and fuel food-stufEs, but are in- 
complete in the sense that the amount of carbohydrate is so 
small as to be almost negligible. 

Meats are -valuable primarily as sources of protein. When 
fat is present they are also useful for fuel. 

Meat extracts are chiefly valuable for their flavor and stim- 
ulating properties. 

The Proteins of animal foods are of many forms, con- 
spicuous among which are albumin of egg-white; myosin of 
muscle; casein of milk; fibrin of blood; nucleo-protein of 
liver and sweetbreads; collagen of connective tissue. 

The Fats are chiefly mixtures of stearin, palmitin and olein 
in varying proportions; small amounts of esters of volatile 
fatty acids; and compounds of fats with phosphorus in the 
form of lecithin and related substances. 

Extractives. Nitrogenous extractives are found chiefly in 
meat, to which they help to give the characteristic flavor and 
the stimulating properties. They consist chiefly of purins 
(adenine, guanine, xanthine, hypoxanthine and uric acid) ; 
and creatin and preatinin. 

Carbohydrates. The carbohydrates are represented mainly 

138 



ANIMAL FOODS 139 

y lactose in milk, and glycogen in shellfish. As a rule, carbo- 
ydrates are negligible in animal foods. 
Water. Water is present in all animal foods. Some ex- 
mples, showing the varying proportions in different kinds, 
re given in the following table : 

Oyster solids 88% 

Milk 87% 

Eggs .73% 

Lean beef 75% 

Salt cod 50% 

Mineral Matter. Milk and eggs are more valuable for their 
3h constituents than any other animal foods. Calcium, iron 
ad phosphorus especially, are here found in most available 
3rms. 

Meats are not particularly useful in this respect. They 
re deficient in calcium, and while they contain considerable 
■on, it is not in as useful a form as that in eggs. Most of 
le ash constituents found in the body are, however, repre- 
;ni:ed in flesh foods. 

Digestibility. As a class, animal foods are easy of diges- 
!on. They contain little indigestible residue, and the nu- 
•ients are very perfectly absorbed. Prepared for the table, 
ley are more concentrated than most vegetable foods. Hence 
Qimal foods are frequently chosen for invalids and con- 
alescents, regardless of their high protein content. 

Disadvantage of a Purely Animal Diet. The chief dis- 
Jvantages of a purely animal diet are that it does not afford 
ifBcient bulk to maintain the proper functioning of the 
limentary tract, owing to the lack of indigestible residue; 
ad that it loads the body with an excess of nitrogenous ma- 
!rial, which is not only unnecessary for repair, but may 
luse harm if not speedily eliminated. Furthermore, pro- 
dn raises the metabolism so that more food is actually re- 
nired than if carbohydrates and fats are used as fuel. For 
irther discussion of the relative merits of animal and veg- 
;able diets, see page 333. 



140 ANIMAL FOODS 



MEAT 



^ The term meat includes the flesh of -all animals used for 
/food, as beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, poultry, game. Lean 
meat is almost a pure protein food. 

Composition of Meat : 

1. Muscle fibers, composed of proteins, extractives, in- 
organic salts, and water. 

The principal protein is albumin. Muscle al- 
bumin is often called myosin. 

The extractives are largely nitrogenous. 
The mineral constituents in greatest abundance are 
phosphates and potash salts. 
2., Cqinective tissue which binds together the muscle fibers, 
""^ this consisting chiefly of a protein cajled collagen, 
which yields gelatin on boiling. 
3. Fat interspersed between the fibers. 

Nutritive Value. Meat is rich in nitrogenous elements and 
fats, and contains important salts, chiefly potassium and iron. 
It is easily cooked and improves in flavor during the process ; 
requires less mastication and is more easily digested and as- 
similated than most vegetable food. 

Meat is lacking in carbohydrates, and unless a large amount 
of fat is present, is to be regarded as a source of nitrogen 
rather than of energy. Since protein burns up faster than 
other foods, and very little of the nitrogen can be retained in 
the body, it is most advantageously used in small amounts 
along with plenty of fats and carbohydrates. 

The most important food element in meat is the myosin or 
muscle albumin. The collagen belongs to a group of proteins 
often called gelatinoids or albuminoids,, because, unlike the 
albumins, they cannot sustain life alone. They are able, 
however, to replace other proteins to the extent of two-thirds 
of the ordinary nitrogen requirement. In young animals, the 
connective tissue is soft, and the tissues are easily masticated ; 
but in older animals it becomes very firm, is hard to chew 



MEAT 141 

id often escapes digestion unless softened or changed to 

latin by cooking. 

The nitrogenous extractives have no nutritive value, and 

fact, represent products either of waste (katabolism) or of 
sufficient oxidation. Unless promptly excreted, they may 
use an excess of uric acid or other disorders. However, 
ey bestow upon cooked meat its characteristic flavor and 
or; in the stomach, act as stimulants to the secretion of 
stric juice; and exert on the nervous system a stimulating 
fluence similar to that of tea and coffee. 
Digestibility of Meat. Meat is easily digested, the degree 

ease depending upon the following conditions: (1) The 
e of the animal when killed, with the exception of veal, the 
:sh of the young animal is more easily digested, but less 
itritious than that of the older one; (2) the time the animal 
kept before cooking; (3) the sex; (4) the care bestowed on 
e animal during life; (6) the quantity of fat. Lean meat 
more easily digested than fat meat. 

Absorption of Meat. Meat is very readily absorbed and 
ives little residue in the intestines ; only 3 per cent, of meat 
ken is lost in the process of digestion. 
Uncoohed Meat. Ordinary raw meat is not quite as easily 
jested as cooked meat. Owing to color and flavor, it is not 
petizing and could not be taken continuously. However, 
len chopped fine or scraped free from connective tissue, so 

to be easily attacked by the digestive juices, it is more 
jdily digested than cooked meat. 

Ejfect of Cooking Meat. Proper cooking makes meat more 
jestible, as it softens the connective tissues, thus causing a 
Daration of the muscular fibers, and enabling the digestive 
ices to act more advantageously. The color and flavor are 
proved. There is a loss of weight by evaporation of water, 
d loss of mineral matter and some extractives. The loss of 
ter concentrates the nutrients, and thus renders cooked 
sat proportionally more nutritious than raw meat. 



143 ANIMAL FOODS 

Objective Points and Methods in Cooking: 
1. To retain the juice as in baking, broiling, boiling and 
frying. 

3. To extract the juice as in soups. 

3. To extract and retain the juice as in stews. 

The Principal Constituent of meat to be considered in cook- 
ing is the albumin. Kote page 11, for albumin. 

Cooking of Meat. Heat penetrates meat slowly. At a tem- 
perature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit, the meat assumes a gray 
color, as a result of the decomposition of the coloring matter 
of the blood. At the same time a peculiar odor of cooking 
develops, which is due to chemical changes produced by the 
heat. 

At a temperature above 104 degrees Fahrenheit, meat be- 
gins to lose weight from the separation of water, which con- 
tains salts and nitrogenous extractives. This process contin- 
ues as the temperature rises, except that coagulable proteins 
no longer separate with the water. 

Coagulation of the albumin is an important factor in cook- 
ing meat, and the degree varies with the mode of cooking. 

As broiling is the preferred way of preparing meat for the 
sick and convalescent, it is taken up in detail in this chapter." 

Broiling. In broiling, the meat is to be cooked in its own 
juices; it is, therefore, evident that these must be retained as 
completely as possible. At first the temperature should be 
sufficiently high quickly to coagulate, and even harden the 
albumin on the outside surface, so as to form a layer or pro- 
tecting coat over the whole ; then the heat should be modified 
so that the interior will be raised to a temperature that will 
cook it properly without loss of its nutritive properties. 

In broiling we partially sacrifice the outer layer of the 
meat, to preserve the inner portion. 

The time for exposure will be different for different kinds 
of meat. Beef and mutton require a shorter time than lamb, 
chicken or game. 

A piece of meat properly broiled swells, and when cut, the 



MEAT 143 

[quid portion flows out readily; but if cooked too long the 
Ibumin inside coagulates and the meat loses its moisture^ 
brinks, and becomes tough. 

Effect of Gold and Hot Water on Meat. Cold water draws 
ut the soluble albumin, the extractives and some of the salts ; 
hus in soups, broths and stews where all the nutriment pos- 
ible is desired in the liquid, the meat is first put into cold 
rater and gradually brought to a higher temperature. 

Hot water or dry heat coagulates albumin, and since if 
ubjected to too high a temperature this becomes tough and 
ndigestible, we must note carefully the proper temperature of 
ooking. Often it is necessary to sacrifice a small amount 
f albumin by exposing the meat to a high temperature for 

short time to form a coating on the meat, in order to re- 
ain the rest of the Juices more effectively, after which the 
onnective tissue can be softened by gentle simmering for 
everal hours. 

The Quality of Meat depends upon the age, sex, environ- 
lent, care, feeding and time of hanging after slaughtering, 
t also depends greatly on the cuts used. 

The tougher and less expensive cuts, if properly cooked, 
re as nutritious and as easily digested as the expensive cuts ; 
owever, tough meats take long, slow cooking to make them 
alatable, and the fuel used must be taken into consideration 
1 the expense. Tough meats are muscles which the animal 
ses the most, as the legs (especially the lower part), neck, 
tc. ; they are more highly flavored on account of the freer 
irculation of blood through these portions. Cuts from the 
eck and shin are used for soups and broths. 

The tenderer and more expensive cuts are from the muscles 
hich the animal uses the least, as the upper portion of the 
ind quarter (rump, sirloin) and fore ribs. The circulation 
E blood through these portions is less and they are not as 
licy and well flavored, nor any more nutritious than tougher 
ortions. These tenderer cuts are used for steaks and roasts. 

The remaining muscular portions of the animal (flank, 
loulder and brisket) are not as tender as the upper portion 



144 ANIMAL FOODS 

of the hind quarter, but just as nutritious. They need longer 
cooking and are used for stews, braising and pot roast. 

Internal Organs or Animal Viscera used as food are the 
heart, tongue, brain, kidneys, liver, pancreas, thymus glands 
and paunch. Although some are as easily digested as most 
muscle tissue, they are not as nutritious, and most of them 
produce large quantities of uric acid. 

The heart, liver and kidneys, when properly cooked, are 
not as easily digested as other meats, on account of their close 
and firm texture, and should be eaten only by those of good 
digestive powers. 

The tongue is not very easily digested, for although the 
lean meat is tender, the fat is hard, and tends to retard diges- 
tion in the stomach. 

The brain is the most rapidly digested of meats, but a 
very high per cent, is of no use to the body. It is not suited 
for invalid diet on account of the high fat content. 

The paunch is the third stomach of the ox and called tripe. 
When properly cooked it is easily digested, but contains too 
much fat to give an invalid. 

The pancreas and thymus glands of the calf or lamb are 
sold under the name of sweetbreads. They are most easily 
digested, but give rise to uric acid. Note chapter on Sweet- 
breads. 

Beef, Beef, is without doubt, the most valuable kind of 
meat; it is nutritious, of excellent flavor, and comparatively 
easy of digestion. 

Test for Good Beef. The flesh is firm and fine grained in 
texture ; bright red in color when first cut and upon exposure 
to air; looks juicy and well-mottled and coated with fat, and 
the fat is of yellowish color and firm. 

The best beef is obtained from the steer of four to six years 
of age. After killing, the animal should hang for two to 
three weeks. 

Veal. The flesh of the calf is difficult of digestion and 
should only be used in the sick room for making broth. It 
should never be eaten by those of weak digestion. It con- 



MEAT 145 

tains less albuminous substances, and more gelatin than 
beef. 

Test for Good Veal. It should be of a pinkish color, with 
clear, firm, white fat, fine grained and tender. The cut most 
used for broth and soup is the lower part of the leg known 
as the knuckle. 

Mutton. Next to beef, mutton is considered the most 
nutritious of meats, and by some considered as easily digested ; 
but it is known that fat of mutton, which consists largely of 
stearin, is not as easily digested. 

The best quality of mutton comes from a sheep from three 
to five years old; after killing it should be allowed to hang 
to ripen and to develop the flavor. 

Test for Good Mutton. The flesh is fine grained, bright 
pink in color, the fat is white, hard and flaky, and the skin 
comes off easily. The bones of mutton are white and smooth 
and round at the joints. 

Lamb. Lamb of the right age is as nutritious as beef or 
mutton but the flesh is milder in flavor. 

Lamb is sold as " spring lamb " when killed at six weeks to 
three months old. It is very expensive and comes into the 
market early in the year — February and March. Lamb is 
usually killed when a year old, and should be sold imme- 
diately after killing; in this respect it differs from beef and 
mutton, which should hang after killing to ripen and develop 
the flavor. 

Test for Lamb. Lamb can be distinguished from mutton 
by the pinkish color of the bone, and the serrated joints. 

Pork. The flesh of the pig is the most indigestible of 
all meats on account of the large percentage of fat which Jt 
contains, consequently it is not used in cookery for the sick, 
except sometimes a small amount of ham, salt pork or bacon, 
as the salty taste occasionally acts as a stimulant to the lost 
appetite of the convalescent. Ham and bacon are more easily 
digested than other cuts of pork, and when thin strips of 
bacon are cooked crisp they are easily digested. Bacon is 
from the flank of pork and is salted and smoked. Next to 



146 



ANIMAL FOODS 



butter and cream, bacon fat is the most easily assimilated of 
ordinary food fats. 

Cuts of Meat. * The methods of cutting sides of beef, veal, 
mutton, and pork into parts, and the terms used for the differ- 
ent "cuts," as these parts are commonly called, vary in 
different localities. The diagrams show the positions of the 
different cuts, both in the live animal and in the dressed car- 
cass, as found in the markets. The lines of division between 
the different cuts will vary slightly, according to the usage of 
the local market, even where the general method of cutting 
is as here indicated. The names of the same cuts likewise 
vary in different parts of the country. 

Cuts of Beef 




Pig. 5 



Pie. 5. — Diagrams of cuts of beef: 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 3, ribs; 4, shonl- 
der-clod; 5, fore-shank; 6, brisket; 7, cross-ribs; 8, plate; 9, navel; 10, 
loin; 11, flank; 12, rump; 13, round; 14, second-cut round; 15, hind-shank. 
— (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, OfBce of Experiment Stations, 
United States Department of Agriculture.) Send for Bulletin for cuts of 
Teal and Pork, 



' This section is (juoted from Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office 
of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton. D. C. 



MEAT Ur 

The general method of cutting up a side of beef is illus- 
trated in Fig. 5, which shows the relative position of the cuts 
in the animal and in a dressed side. The neck piece is fre- 
quently cut so as to include more of the chuck than is repre- 
sented by the diagrams. The shoulder-clod is usually cut 
without bone, while the shoulder (not included in diagram) 
would include more or less of the shoulder blade and of the 
upper end of the fore-shank. Shoulder steak is cut from the 
chuck. In many localities the plate is made to include all 
the parts of the fore-quarter designated on the diagrams as 
brisket, cross-ribs, plate, and navel, and difEerent portions of 
the plate, as thus cut, are spoken of as the " brisket end of 
plate " and " navel end of plate." This part of the animal is 
largely used for corning. The ribs are frequently divided 
into first, second, and third cuts, the latter lying nearest the 
chuck and being slightly less desirable than the former. The 
chuck is sometimes sub-divided in a similar manner, the third 
cut of the chuck being nearest the neck. The names applied 
to different portions of the loin vary considerably in different 
localities. The part nearest the ribs . is frequently called 
" small end of loin " or " short steak." The other end of the 
loin is called " hip sirloin " or " sirloin." Between the short 
steak and the sirloin is a portion quite generally called the 
" tenderloin,"' for the reason that the real tenderloin, the 
very tender strip of meat lying inside the loin, is found most 
fully developed in this cut. Porterhouse steak is a term most 
frequently applied either to the short steak or the tenderloin. 
It is not uncommon to find the flank cut so as to include more 
of the loin than is indicated in the figures, in which case the 
upper portion is called " flank steak." The larger part of the 
flank is, however, very frequently corned, as is also the case 
with the rump. In some markets the rump is cut so as to 
include a poition of the loin, which is then sold as " rump 
steak." The poittion of the round on the inside of the leg 
is regarded as riiore tender than that on the outside, and is 
frequently preferred to the latter. As the leg lies upon the 
butcher's table. tW,'^ inside of the round is usually on the 



148 



ANIMAL FOODS 



upper or top side, and is therefore called " top round.' 
sionally the plate is called the " rattle." 



Occa- 



Cuts of Lamb and Mutton 




Fig. 7 

"Fig. 7. — Diagrams of cuts of lamb and mutton ; 1, Neck ; '2, chuck ; 3, 
shoulder; 4, flank; 5, loin; 6, leg. — (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, 
Office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture.) 

Fig. 7 shows the relative position of the cuts in a dressed 
side of mutton or lamb and in a live animal. The cuts in a 
side of lamb and mutton number but six, three in each quar- 
ter. The chuck includes the ribs as far as the end of the 
shoulder blades, beyond which comes the loin. The flank is 
made to include all the under side of the animal. Some 
butchers, however, make a large number of cuts in the fore- 
quarter, including a portion of the cuts marked " loin " and 
" chuck " in Fig. 7, to make a cut designated as " rib," and 
a portion of the " flank " and " shoulder " t^ make a cut 
designated as "brisket." The term "cnoj5B^' is ordinarily 
used to designate portions of either the loin, ribs, chuck or 
shoulder, which are either cut or " chopped " by the butcher 
into pieces suitable for frying or boilin§»-.i^l ° chuck and ribs 
are sometimes called the " rack." 



ing,-^! ° ct 



MEAT 149 

ENERGY VALUE OF MEAT 
See Table, under names of meat, as Beef — Mutton — 
Lamb — Bacon — Ham, etc. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

TO BBOIL STEAK 

Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat and remove a little of 
the bone. Save the flank ends for broiled meat cakes. Heat 
and grease the broiler with some of the fat. Place meat in 
broiler with fat edge next t6 handle and broil over a clear 
fire, turning every ten seconds for the first minute, holding 
broiler near the coals that the surface may be well seared, 
thus preventing escape of juices ; then cook at lower tempera- 
ture, holding the broiler higher. 

Steak cut one inch thick will take five minutes if liked 
rare, and eight minutes if well done; one and one-half inch 
thick, eight to ten minutes. Serve on a hot platter and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper', or with Maitre d'Hotel But- 
ter. 

Note. — Steak should be cut at least one inch thick ; many 
prefer it much thicker. The most tender steaks are tender- 
loin, sirloin and cross-cut of rump. Sirloin, porterhouse (a 
thick slice of sirloin with tenderloin attached), cross-cut of 
the rump and top of the round are all good steaks. The top 
of round is solid meat and a cheap steak ; is tender if -cut 
from animal of right age and is the second or third cut from 
top of round. 

MAITRE D'HOTEI BUTTER, 443 CAIORIES 
^ cup butter. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

% teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

14 saltspoon pepper. 

Eub the butter to a cream; add salt, pepper, parsley and 
lemon juice. Spread on hot beefsteak. 

FAN-BROILED BEEF CAEES 
Use steak from upper part of round, and with a small piece 
of suet put all through a meat chopper; without seasoning. 



150 ANIMAL FOODS 

shape into small, flat, circular cakes. Into saute pan put a 
little beef fat, when smoking hot, put in the cakes and cook 
a few moments on each side and turn; it will take about live 
minutes to cook them. Season well with salt, pepper and 
butter, and serve on hot platter. Eo not add salt before cook- 
ing, as it toughens the meat. 

SCRAFEB BEEF 
See " Beef Preparations " for recipe. Page 217. 

MUTTON CHOPS BROIIEB i 

Cut away the tough outside skin, trim off a part of the 
fat. Broil same as steak — t^at is, close to the glowing coals 
— for about one minute, turning every ten seconds, then cook 
at a lower temperature, holding the broiler higher. Will take 
four or six minutes for a chop one inch thick. Mutton, like 
beef, should be served rare. Season chops with salt and 
pepper, but not with butter, as the meat is rich and fat and 
does not require it. 

LAUB CHOPS BROILEBi 

Prepare and broil same as for mutton chops, except that 
they are to be well done instead of rare, to accomplish this 
about three minutes longer cooking will be required; for a 
chop one inch thick, from eight to ten minutes. 

FRENCH CHOPS 1 

Trim a chop until there is nothing left but the round 
muscle at the thick end, with a little fat about it. Cut away 
all the meat from the bone, which will then look like a handle 
with a meat morsel at one end. Broil, and serve on hot 
platter with paper handles on chops, and garnished with pars- 
ley and peas. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS i 

Chops are fairly good pan-broiled. The same principle is 
to be followed as in the cooking over coals — that is, a high 
degree of heat at first, to sear the outside before the juice 

' Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gms. 



MEAT 151 

escapes, and a lower temperature afterward — therefore, heat 
the saute pan or spider exceedingly hot (use no fat), drop in 
the chop, count ten and turn, repeating for about one minute, 
then draw the pan to the back or side of the stove and finish 
cooking slowly. A chop one inch thick will be perfectly done 
in from five to seven minutes. If the pan is hot enough at 
first there will be no loss of juice or flavor. Season and serve 
in the same manner as broiled chops. 

CHOPS (OB BIRDS) BROILED IN PAPER i 
Prepare a chop as for pan-broiling. Spread a piece of 
paper evenly and thickly with butter. Lay on it a nicely 
trimmed chop and double the paper with edges together. 
Fold and crease the edges on the three sides, then fold and 
crease again, so that the butter cannot run out. These folds 
should be half-an-inch wide. It will be necessary to have 
the sheet of paper — foolscap or heavy white paper — consid- 
erably more than twice as large as the chop. Broil over coals, 
not too near, turning often so that the temperature will not 
get so high as to ignite the paper. A chop broiled in this way 
is basted in the butter and in its own juices, and is very deli- 
cate. A chop three-quarters of an inch thick will cook in five 
minutes ; one an inch thick, in eight. 

Should the paper ignite, it need not destroy the chop. 
Take it out and put into a fresh paper and try again. The 
chop should be served hot, seasoned with salt and pepper. 
Kote. — Birds may be broiled in the same way. 

BROILED BACON 

Cut bacon in as thin slices as possible, and remove rind; 
Put in broiler, placing broiler over baking pan, and cook in 
hot oven until crisp. 

CURLED BACON 
Heat saute pan ve^'y hot. Put in strips of very thin sliced 
bacon. As fat is drawn out, pour it ofE into cup ; cook bacon 
until crisp and brown. Drain on brown paper. 

* Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gma. 



152 ANIMAL FOODS 

BBOIIES HAU 

Cut slices of ham one-third inch thick. If very salt soak 
fifteen minutes in lukewarm water ; broil three minutes or un- 
til brown on both sides, turning frequently. A slice of boiled 
ham is very delicate cooked in this same way, cooking it less 
time. 

ROAST HEATS 

Prepare meat, put on rack in dripping pan, dredge with 
salt and flour and cook in hot oven until the surface is seared, 
reduce the heat and cook slowly the required time. 

Beef, rare 13 minutes per pound. 

Beef, rare (over 5 lbs.) ,. 18 minutes per pound. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST MEATS 
1 tablespoon fat. 1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Pour fat from baking pan and return to pan the quantity 
desired. Add flour and when well browned pour on gradually 
the boilifig water, stirring constantly. Cook five minutes, 
season with salt and pepper, and strain. 

POITLTEY AND GAME^ 

Poultry and game are generally classed together, poultry 
being applied to domesticated birds raised for their flesh or 
eggs or both. Wild birds are all classed as game. 

Digestibility. Chicken may be introduced early into the 
dietary of the convalescent, for it is one of the most easily 
digested of meats. Chicken is more easily digested than 
•fowl, but is not as nutritious. The white meat of the breast 
is particularly free from fat, has short fibers and small amount 
of connective tissues, and is easier to digest than the dark 
meat. 

Squab, quail, pigeons and the white meat of turkey are also 
easily digested. 

Duck and goose contain a large quantity of fat and are not 
as easily digested. 

'For further information, note "Poultry as Food." Farmer's Bulletin, 
No. 182, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



POULTRY AND GAME 153 

Game is compai:atively easy of digestion but too highly 
flavored for most invalids. The cuts from the breast are 
the best for an invalid. 

Test for Selecting a Chicken. The cartilage at the end of 
the breast bone must be soft and pliable, the skin smooth 
and the feet soft. There should be an abundance of pin 
feathers. Chickens are used for broiling and roasting. 

Test for Selecting a Fowl. The cartilage at end of the 
breast bone is firm, the feet are hard and dry. The pin feath- 
ers are largely replaced with long hair. An old fowl, not too 
fat, is best for broths. One from one to two years is best for 
roasting, or where the meat substance is desired. The propor- 
tion of bone to meat in chicken under this age makes them 
espensive eating. 

Principles of Cooking. In general same as for cooking of 
other meats. 

When the layer of meat over the bones is very thin, as in 
young chickens or squabs, broiling is preferable to roasting. 

An old fowl can sometimes be made tender without having 
all its fla;Vor stewed into the broth, by cooking in a small 
amount of water in a double boiler for a long time, or in a 
fireless cooker. 

A general rule for roasting chickens or turkeys is twenty 
minutes to the pound. Dupks and geese, having tougher 
fibers, require a longer time for thorough cooking. 

GENERAl KTIIE FOR CIEANING POULTRY 

Cut off head and feet and pull out pin feathers. If the 
bird has not been drawn, make an incision below the breast 
just large enough to admit the hand (or finger for the small 
birds). With the hand or finger, draw all the entrails out at 
one time. Care must be taken not to break them, especially 
the gall-bladder. Turn down the skin of the neck, cut off 
neck close to body and pull out wind pipe and crop. Cut 
out the oil bag. Cut through skin of the leg a little below the 
joint (not cutting the tendons), press against table and break 
and pull off foot with tendons, which will come out in break- 



154 ANIMAL FOODS 

ing if chicken is young. In fowls you m^y have to pull them 
out separately with skewer. Singe the bird by holding it 
over a tablespoon of Burning alcohol, or paper (holding over 
sink). Wash by allowing the cold water to run through and 
over it, and dry well inside and out and prepare further for 
broiling or roasting, etc. 

DRY SRESSING FOR STVEFISG, 1100 CAIORIES 

1% cup stale bread crumbs. Powdered sage, marjoram, and 

% cup butter (not melted). summer savory. 

Salt, pepper. 

Thoroughly mix ingredients and season to taste. Fill in 
both openings of bird and sew the skin at both ends, and turn 
the skin of neck over, and fasten to back. Oysters can be 
added to dressing if desired, omitting all seasonings but the 
salt and pepper. 

TO TRUSS POTIETRT 

After stufiSng and sewipg up the openings, draws the thighs 
close to body and secure in place by putting a skewer through 
them and the body. Fold wings under back by taking end 
of wing and place in under back which fastens it. Cross the 
drum-sticks and tie with long string and fasten to the tail, 
and tie string so that it will hold thighs close to the body. 
Cut and remove string before serving the bird. 

ROAST POTTLTRY , 

100 grams = about 200 Calories.i 

Clean, stuff and truss bird and place it on its back on 
rack in dripping pan. Eub surface with salt and a butter and 
flour mixture (mix three tablespoons of butter and two table- 
spoons of flour and stir until creamy). Dredge bottom of 
pan with flour. Place in hot oven and in about ten minutes 
the flour should be well browned, then reduce heat of oven and 
cook more slowly. Baste every ten minutes with one-fourth 
cup of butter melted in three-fourths cup of water, after this 

' Edible portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 155 

has been exhausted use fat in pan. Turn bird often while 
cooking that it may brown evenly. When cooked, remove to 
hot platter and make the gravy. 

A chicken four to five pounds will require about one and 
one-half to two hours for cooking. Turkey, nine pounds, two 
and one-half to three hours. Ducks (domestic), one to one 
and one-half hours. Duck (wild), twenty-five to thirty min- 
iites. Goose, nine pounds, two to two hours and one-half. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST POULTRY 

Clean the heart, liver and gizzard by removing the mem- 
brane, blood vessels and clotted blood from the heart. Cut 
liver ftfom the gall bladder and remove all green on liver. 
Clean gizzard and cut through edge carefully to sac, and re- 
move carefully not to break it, wash giblets (that is, the 
heart, liver, gizzard) and the neck and put on to cook in two 
and one-half cups of cold water, cook slowly at the simmering 
point until tender. 

After chicken has been removed from pan, pour off all the 
fat, strain and return to pan four tablespoons of fat and add 
four tablespoons of flour, brown together thoroughly, and add 
gradually the water the giblets were cooked in. Cook five 
minutes, stirring constantly, add hot water if gravy is too 
thick, and salt and pepper to taste, and the mely-chopped 
gibjets. 

TO BONE BIRDS 

Select bird that is fresh-killed, dry-picked, and not drawn. 
Cut off head and feet, singe and remove pin feathers, crop, and 
oil bag. Cut off wings close to body. Lay on board breast 
down and cut to bone the entire length of spine. Scrape the 
flesh from backbone the entire length of body, working toward 
the breast, cutting the tendinous portions as reached. When 
edge of breastbone is reached, care must be taken not to break 
through skin. Scrape flesh from second joint and drum- 
sticks, laying flesh back and pulling out bone (as if turning 
glove off inside out). 

Scrape flesh from lower part of back and withdraw from 



156 ANIMAL FOODS 

carcass. Put flesh in original shape and broil, following 
directions for broiled quail; or stufE bird with stale bread 
crumbs and tie in shape with string and bake in hot oven. 
When cooked, remove bread and tie in shape with a bit of 
white baby ribbon and garnish with parsley and lemon. 

BROILED aiTAIL 

100 grains = 160 Calories. 

Clean, cut off the head and feet, singe, and wipe with a 
damp cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife split the quail down 
the back, beginning at back of neck and cutting through the 
backbone the entire length of bird. Lay bird open and re- 
move contents. Cut through tendons at joints. Wipe thor- 
oughly. Season with salt and pepper, rub thickly with soft- 
ened butter and dredge with flour. Broil ten minutes over 
clear coals. Serve on hot buttered toast. Garnish with toast 
points, parsley and currant Jelly. 

BROILED SQUABS 

100 grams = 390 Calories. 

Prepare, cooTc and serve the same as quail. 

BROILED SHALL BIRDS 

All small birds can be broiled according to the directions 
for quail, remembering that for very small ones it takes a very 
bright fire, as the birds should only be browned and the time 
required for cooking is brief. 

BIRDS BROILED IS BAFER 

See chapter on Meats and follow directions for " Chops 
Broiled in Paper." Page 151. 

BROILED CHICKEIT 
100 grams =i 108 Calories.i 

Dress for broiling, following directions given under Broiled 
Quail. Season well with salt and pepper, and rub all over 
with softened butter, especially breast and legs. Put in a 
well-greased broiler and broil over a clear fire about fifteen 

1 Edible portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 157 

minutes, turning often. The ilesh side must be exposed to 
the fire the greater part of the time as the skin side burns 
easily. When chicken is nicely browned, place in a dripping- 
pan, skin side down, in a moderate oven twelve minutes. Put 
on a hot dish, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve 
immediately. 

This rule is for a chicken weighing about two and a half 
pounds, yielding 735 calories. 

CREAUED CHICKEN, 210 CALORIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
Vs cup cold cooked chicken. % tablespoon butter. 

Speck celery salt. % tablespoon flour. 

Salt. Yi cup rich milk. 

Pepper. 

Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and pour on gradually 
the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly. Add chicken cut into 
dice, and seasonings. Heat well and serve on toast rounds, 
garnished with toast points and parsley; or use as a filling 
for Swedish timbales. 

Note. — Chicken may be used that is removed from chicken 
broth when it is tender. Chicken broth may replace part of 
the milk in making the sauce. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN 

Put creamed chicken into a small baking dish, cover with 
dried bread or cracker crumbs, dot with small pieces of but- 
ter, and brown in oven. 

JELLIED C&ICKEN, 100 CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin. 14 cup chopped chicken. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt, celery salt. 
8 tablespoons strong chicken 

broth. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water five minutes, and add the 
boiling hot broth, stir until dissolved. Season to taste. Dip 

1 Calculated with 1% ounce of fowl. 

2 About 100 calories. 



158 ANIMAL FOODS 

mold into cold water and pour in enough gelatin to cover 
bottom, put in ice box to harden, when firm decorate with a 
slice of hard-cooked egg; or cook a couple slices of carrots 
and cut a small round from one slice to form the center of 
a daisy and cut the other slice into strips to represent the 
petals and put in bottom of mold, add a few drops of 
gelatin to keep the decoration in place, and put on ice to 
harden. Mix the chicken with remainder of gelatin and pour 
into mold and set to harden. Serve on leaf of lettuce or 
garnish with parsley. 

LARDED GROUSE 

Clean and wash the grouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Eun a small skewer through the legs and tail. Tie firmly 
with twine. Dredge with salt, rub the breast with softened 
butter, then dredge with iiour. Put into a quick oven. If 
desired rare, cook twenty minutes; if well done, thirty min- 
utes. Serve on hot platter garnished with parsley and Bread 
Sauce. 

LARDED aUAIL 
lOO grams =: 160 Calories'. 

The directions for cooking and serving are the same as for 
grouse, except that quail cook in fifteen minutes. Larding 
gives richness to dry meat that does not have fat enough of 
its own. 

BREAD SAUCE TOR 6AUE, 540 CALORIES 
Crumbs 

% cup coarse dried bread crumbs. % small onion. 

% tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon, butter. 

Sauce 
1 cup milk. Salt. 

14 cup fine bread crumbs. Pepper. 

Prepare Crumbs. Dry in a warm oven; sift. Cook the 
coarse bread crumbs in the butter until a delicate brown, and 
use to cover breast of bird. 

Prepare Sauce. Put the fine bread crumbs, milk and 



FISH 



159 



onion on to scald ten minutes, then skim out the onion, add 
the butter and seasoning, and serve as a gravy for birds. 

FISH 

Fish is one of the important protein foods. The term is 
usually applied to all kinds of water animals used for food. 
They may be classified as follows : 



Classes 



1. Scaly or Vertebrate. 



White or lean, e. g. 



l2. Shell-flsh 



Halibut 

Haddock 

Flounder 

Turbot 

White Fish 

Smelt 

Cod 



Dark or oily, e. g. 



Mollusks, e. g. 



Crustaceans, e. g. 



'Salmon 

Mackerel 

Blue Fish 

Shad 

Herring 

Eel 

rOysters 
"I^Clams 

Crabs 
Lobsters 
Shrimps 
Turtles 
.Terrapin 



In the white-fleshed fish the fat is found principally in 
the liver. This is the only class usually considered in the 
cookery for the sick. 

In the dark-fleshed fish the fat is found distributed through- 
out the body. A considerable amount of the protein of fish 
is in the form of gelatin. Fish is less rich in extractives, and 
hence less stimulating than meat. 

Digestibility. The digestibility of scaly fish depends upon 
the quantity of fat present and the coarseness of the fiber. 



160 ANIMAL FOODS. 

The white-fleshed fish are less nutritious and stimulating than 
the dark-fleshed fish as they contain less fat and extractives 
and more water. They are consequently more easily digested. 
With the exception of cod, white fish is useful for a con- 
valescent diet, for those of sedentary habits, for children, and 
others for whom the stimulating extractives of meat are not 
desirable. 

Oily fish should not be eaten by those of weak digestion 
or given to the sick. In some cases they may be served dur- 
ing advanced convalescence. 

Salt fish is not as easily digested as fresh fish, as the fibers 
are apt to be hardened in the process of salting. Salt codfish 
is an exception, for if finely divided and served in an ap- 
petizing manner it is a valuable and inexpensive form of 
protein food. As a rule, dried, smoked or pickled fish should 
not be given to the sick. 

By some persons, fish cannot be eaten without causing in- 
digestion or biliousness. A complete diet of fish is said to 
cause an affection of the skin. The fat sometimes disagrees, 
causing acidity and eructations of the stomach. 

Composition. In composition fish is similar to meat, con- 
taining proteins, extractives, fats, salts and water. As a riile, 
fish contains more water and less fat than meat, therefore it 
is more easily digested ; and it is due to this, its easy digesti- 
bility, that white fish by some is considered a brain food, and 
not, as is popularly supposed, to the amount of phosphorus it 
contains; in fact, fish does not contain as much phosphorus 
as some meat. Fish contains less extractives than meat and 
it is due to this that people tire more quickly of it than of 
meat. 

Lemon juice and vinegar are desirable condiments to serve 
with fish. The acid is a desirable neutralizing agency, as the 
juice of fish, especially shellfish, is of an alkaline nature. 

Nutritive Value. The chief nutritive constituents of fish, 
as of meat, are their proteins and fats. Their energy value 
depends largely on the amount of fat they contain. 



FISH 161 

When Fish are in Season. Halibut, haddock, flounder and 
cod, are in season all the year. 

Turbot, October to May; shad, February to May; salmon. 
May to September; blue fish and mackerel. May to October; 
sturgeon, April to September; trout (lake), April to August. 

Test for Freshness. In fresh fish the gills are red, the eyes 
bright and protruding, the flesh is firm and there is no un- 
pleasant odor. The first two tests disappear after the fish 
has been out of water a short time, and although the fiavor of 
the fish is not as good, it is not spoiled. But if the last two 
tests are not present the fish should not be used. Great care 
should be taken that fish is perfectly fresh, in season, and 
thoroughly cooked, or it will be indigestible and sometimes 
poisonous. Unless these conditions are known to exist, fish 
should not be served to the sick. 

" In many European cities fish are sold alive, the customer 
selecting his fish as it swims in a tank. It would seem that 
this excellent method might be used in our cities, especially 
those situated on the seaboard, at least for customers who are 
fastidious and who are willing to pay an extra price for 
,a special article when it is warranted." (Farmer's Bulletin 
No. 375.) 

Principles to ie Ohserved in Coolcing Fish. As in meat, 
albumin is the principal constituent to be considered in the 
cooking of fish. Hence the same principles which apply to 
the cooking of meat apply also to the cooking of fish. 

See page 11, for eifect of heat on albumin. 

Objective Points and Methods: 

To Eetain the Juice. — Baking, Broiling, Boiling and Fry- 
ing. 

To Extract the Juice. — Soup. 

To Extract and Eetain the Juice. — Chowder. 

ENERGY VALUE OF FISH 

See Table, under names of fish, as Halibut, Salmon, etc. 
See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients.- 



163 ANIMAL FOODS 

BROILED FISH 

White fish, trout, small blue fish, mackerel, shad and small 
cod should be split down the back, and broiled whole, and if 
preferred, cut ofE the head and tail. Halibut and salmon 
should be cut into inch slices and turned often while broil- 
ing. 

Clean Fish. Wipe with a cloth wet in salt-water, and dry- 
on a fish towel. Season ; oily fish need only salt and pepper, 
but dry white fish should be spread with butter and salt and 
pepper before broiling. Use a double wire broiler greased 
well with salt pork rind. Put thickest edge of fish next 
middle of broiler, turn often while broiling; with split fish 
sear the flesh side first and then turn. 

The time of cooking will vary with the thickness of fish, 
rish is done when flesh separates easily from the bone. 

The fire should be .hot and clear. When ready to serve, 
loosen the fish from broiler on each side. Open broiler, slide 
fish onto platter, having flesh side uppermost. Spread with 
hutter, salt and pepper. Garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. Or serve with Butter Cream and a border of potato 
balls. 

Note " Fish Sauces " for Butter Cream. 

BAKES FISH 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet in salted water, dry on a 
fish towel and bake on a greased fish sheet, placed in a drip- 
ping pan. A strip of cotton cloth, by which it may be lifted 
from the pan, may be substituted for the fish sheet. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, brush over with melted butter, dredge 
with flour, and place around fish small pieces of fat salt pork. 
Bake in hot oven until fish separates from bone when lifted 
-with fork. Baste every ten minutes. Serve plain with 
melted butter, or with Egg Sauce. 

Note " Fish Sauefes " for Egg Sauce. 



FISH 163 

HAIIBTTI i XA CREOLE, 413 CALORIES 

Yz pound halibut. 1 clove. 

% cup tomatoes. % teaspoon sugar. 

Vi cup water. % tablespoon butter.. 

Small piece onion. % tablespoon flour. 

Sprig parsley. • Salt and pepper. 

Tomato Sauce. Blend tomatoes, water, onion, parsley, 
clove and sugar, and cook ten minutes. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
hot mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste, cook five minutes 
and strain. 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet with cold salted water 
and dry thoroughly. Put in baking tin, pour around half 
the sauce and bake until fish separates easily from bone, 
basting often. Serve on hot platter, pour around it the re- 
mainder of the sauce and garnish with parsley. 

CREAMED EISH 
(Individual Rule.) 
y^ cup cooked fish, remove skin 14 cup cream or white sauce 
and bone, and flake the flesh ( note Fish Sauces ) . 
with a fork; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon 
juice. 

Blend the fish and white sauce, reheat and serve on toast, 
garnish with parsley and half -slice of lemon; or serve in 
bread eases made of slices of bread cut two inches thick, 
round off edges, scoop out center, leaving case, brush with 
softened butter and brown in oven. 

Note. — White sauce may be poured on one egg yolk before 

adding fish. 

SCALLOFES PISH 

Put creamed fish into small baking dish, cover with dried 

bread or cracker crumbs; dot with bits of butter and brown. 

in oven. 

CREAMED CODFISH, 828 CALORIES 

Flake salt codfish in small pieces, remove the bone ; the fish 
should be put into several cold waters to remove some of the 



164 ANIMAL FOODS 

salt. Prepare the potatoes, cutting them into eighths, or if 
small into fourths, add the shredded fish and boiling water 
to cover; cook until potatoes are tender, drain off the water 
|( saving it for the sauce), add a little butter and season with 
pepper, and mash lightly and heap in center of platter. 

Sauce 
1 pint fish and potato water. 4 tablespoons flour. 
4 tablespoons butter. Pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
potato water. Cook thoroughly, season with pepper, and 
pour about the codfish, and garnish with slices of hard-cooked 
egg and parsley. 

CBEAMED CODFISH .(POR THE DIABETIC), 314 CALORIES 

% cup flaked codflsh. % teaspoon Gum Gluten flour. 

1 cup milk or cream. Yolk 1 egg. 

% teaspoon butter. Pepper. 

Soak the fish in two waters ; melt the butter, add the flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk ; cook thoroughly, add 
codfish and egg, cook five minutfes, season and serve on Gum 
Gluten toast or fresh bread. 

CREAMED FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), 208 CALORIES 

% cup cooked fish. % cup cream sauce. 

Salt, pepper, lemon juice. Gum Gluten bread crumbs. 

Season fish with salt, pepper and lemon juice, add cream 
sauce, put into ramikins or cups, sprinkle with Gum Gluten 
crumbs, and bake. 

BAKED FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), 480 CALORIES 

For baked fish make a dressing with one cup of Gum 
Gluten bread crumbs, one-half an onion, chopped fine; one 
tablespoon celery, chopped fine, one tablespoon of butter ; pep- 
per, salt, lempn juice and parsley. 

FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Fish should be rubbed with salt and pepper and dipped in 
Gum Gluten Flour, or rolled in egg and Gum Gluten Cracker 
crumbs. Sautd (or fry) in oil or butter. 



FISH SAUCES 165 

FISH SAUCES 
BUTTER CREAM 
Cream a little butter; season with salt, cayenne, lemon 
juice (speck salt and pepper, one-half teaspoon lemon juice). 
Add finely minced parsley or chopped pickle, such as cucum- 
ber or olive. Prepare quantity according to size of fish. Put 
it on the fish, and place in oven a moment until butter is 
melted. 

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE, 125 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
14 tablespoon butter. % eup hot milk. 

14 tablespoon flour. Salt. 

Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire, and pour on 
gradually the milk, stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling 
point, cook thoroughly and season. 

Note. — Extra milk may be added if a thinner sauce is 
desired, using one-half cup milk. 

CREAM SAUCE (EOR THE DIABETIC), 138 CALORIES 

% cup milk. Salt. 

1 teaspoon Gum Gluten flour. Cayenne. 
1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter, add the fiour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk; cook thoroughly and season. 

EGG SAUCE, 434 CALORIES 
2% tablespoons butter. Speck pepper. 

11/3 tablespoons flour. % cup hot water. 

14 teaspoon salt. 2 



Melt one-half the butter; add flour and seasoning and 
pour on gradually the hot water. Boil five minutes and add 
remainder of butter in small pieces. Add two hard-cooked 
eggs cut into one-fourth inch slices, or the beaten yolks may 
be added to hot sauce with one-half teaspoon lemon juice. 



166 ANIMAL FOODS 

EOG SATTCE NO. II 
To Cream or "White Sauce add one hard-cooked egg chopped 
fine and a little lemon juice if desired; or add to "WTiite 
Sauce, yolk slightly beaten and a few drops of lemon juice. 

TOMATO SAUCE, 80 CAIOB,IES 

% tablespoon butter. Few grains salt. 

% tablespoon flour. Few grains pepper. 

Vt '^^P strained tomato juice. 

Brown butter, add flour and stir until slightly browned; 
remove from fire and pour on gradually, stirring constantly, 
the heated tomato. Cook thoroughly and add salt and pepper. 

Note. — A sprig of parsley, one clove and a small piece of 
onion may be added to tomato while heating. 

CUCUMBEIl HELISH, 15 CAIORIES 

Grate one-half cucumber and add a small piece of red pep- 
per chopped fine; season with salt, pepper and vinegar and 
serve with fish. 

HOIIANDAISE, 484 CALORIES 

1 egg yolk. % teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons butter. White pepper. 

% tablespoon vinegar. 

Put one tablespoon butter in top of double boiler, add the 
other ingredients. Place over hot water and stir constantly 
while butter is melting. Add second tablespoon of butter 
and stir until melted, repeat this process until all butter is 
used. As soon as the mixture begins to thicken remove from 
hot water. Vary by adding a little chopped parsley, grated 
horse-radish root. 

SHELL-FISH 
OYSTERS AND CLAUS 

Only the mollusks are considered in this book, because the 
crustaceans are not easily digested, and therefore are not suit- 
able for an invalid diet. 

Oysters. Oysters are valuable food for invalids and con- 



8HELL-FISH 167 

valescents. Their nutritive value is not high, but they are 
easily digested and possess a delicate flavor which is ac- 
ceptable to most palates. 

Composition. The five food principles are represented in 
oysters. Eeckoned as " solid," i. e., removed from the shell, 
oysters contain 88.3 per cent, of water, 6.1 per cent, protein, 
1.4 per cent, fat, and 3.3 per cent, carbohydrate. Oysters 
come nearer to milk than almost any other common food 
material, both in amount and proportion of nutritive prin- 
ciples. 

The carbohydrate is in the form of glycogen, being found, 
in the liver, which constitutes a large proportion of the oyster. 

Digestibility. The soft part of the oyster or clam is made 
up largely of the stomach and liver and is easily digested 
when cooked in a variety of ways — broiling, roasting, stew- 
ing, panning and steaming — but not fried when served to 
the sick. 

The hard part of shellfish is the muscle which fastens the 
animal to the shell, and is rendered tougher by all forms of 
cooking; therefore, when whole oysters are to be eaten, they 
are more easily digested when served raw or broiled slightly 
in the shell. They can be digested by fever patients and 
those suffering from many forms of gastric disorders. 

It is desirable in acute illness to serve only the soft part 
of the oyster, but in the later stages of convalescence the 
whole oyster can be served raw or in stew and soups, which, 
are recommended on account of their liquid form and warmth. 

When in Season. Oysters are in season from September to 
May. During the rest of the year they are insipid and unfii> 
for food. 

Principles to be Carefully Observed in Serving and Cook' 
ing Oysters for the Sick, (a) Make every effort to have the 
oyster alive when used, or as fresh as can be obtained from 
a reliable dealer. Many serious cases of illness and even 
death have been caused by eating oysters so long dead that 
poisonous substances had formed in them. Great care should 
also be taken that oysters are not procured from beds where 



168 ANIMAL FOODS 

the water has been contaminated in any way. " As it is in 
general impossible to learn their origin the rule of never eat- 
ing them in the raw state is adopted by many. The practice 
of fattening or 'floating' oysters in fresh or in brackish 
water robs them of much of their fine flavor, and since the 
most accessible supply of such water is at the outlet of 
streams, and as such streams are frequently polluted by sew- 
age, many persons believe that this practice should be for- 
bidden by law." ^ 

(b) Oysters contain an albuminous substance which in- 
creases in hardness with an increase of temperature, just as 
the albumin of an egg does. When oysters are cooked with 
reference to this albuminous substance, they are also cooked 
in the best possible manner with reference to their other con- 
stituents; therefore subject them to a low temperature, for 
a short time, bearing in mind that 160 to 180 degrees Fahren- 
heit is the cooking temperature of albumin. 

General rule is to remove the oyster from heat as soon 
as the body grows plump and the edges curl, if cooked be- 
yond this stage they are over-cooked. 

Varieties. In New York State the " Blue Points " are 
considered the finest for serving raw. They come originally 
from Blue Point, Long Island. 

In Massachusetts the " Cove " Oyster is considered the fin- 
est for serving raw. They come from a still water cove near 
Plymouth. 

Clams. Clams are similar in composition to the oyster 
and same general rules followed in preparing and serving. 
They are much used for food and considered a great delicacy. 
They contain a tough portion that is not used in sick-room 
cookery, but the clear juice, on account of its digestibility 
and stimulating properties, is invaluable in the sick room. 
Clams are in season all the year around. 

Varieties. There are two varieties, the hard and soft shell 
clams. The hard shell are known as quahaugs. The small 

1 Farmer's Bulletin No. 375. 



OYSTERS 169 

or round " little neck clams " take the place of Blue Points 
to serve raw when oysters are out of season. 

ENERGY VAItTE OF OYSTEES 

2 oysters =14 Calories. 

100 grams oysters =50 Calories. 

1 cup (solid) oysters =84 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 
RAW OYSTERS 

Wash, scrub the shells well under a stream of water with 
a vegetable brush. With a hammer break the thin edges of 
the shell so that a knife may be inserted to sever the muscle 
which holds the two parts of the shell together; when this is 
cut remove the upper half and wipe the edges free from any 
grains of sand. Then sever the muscle which joins the oyster 
to the other shell, so that it may be easily lifted out without 
the necessity of cutting. Arrange six oysters on an oyster- 
plate on crushed ice, and serve with salt, black pepper and 
lemon juice. A quarter of lemon cut lengthwise may be 
placed in the center of plate, and bit of parsley. 

OYSTERS ROASTED IN THE SHELL 

Wash the shells very carefully with a brush. Put them 
in a wire broiler over glowing coals, the round side of shell 
down so as to hold the juice. Cook them quickly, turning 
once or twice until the shell opens. They may also be cooked 
in a hot oven. When done remove the upper half of the shell ; 
season them quickly with salt, pepper and a tiny bit of but- 
ter and vinegar, if liked, and serve them while very hot. 

The true oyster flavor is delightfully developed by pre- 
paring in this way. They may also be served with melted 
butter, salt, pepper and lemon juice. 

TO WASH OYSTERS 
Place oysters in strainer over a bowl and pour one table- 
spoon of water over each one-half cup of oysters. Take each 
oyster up in fingers and remove any particle of shell that may 
adhere to tough muscle. 



170 ANIMAL FOODS 

FAN ROAST OYSTERS 

Wash oysters and put in saute pan or chafing dish and 
gently stir with spoon. When bodies grow plump and the 
edges curl remove from heat. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little butter and serve on rounds of toast, with eighth 
of lemon for individual dishes; or serve on platter and 
garnish with toast points, watercress and lemon. 
BROIIES OYSTERS, 320 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
4 oysters. 4 teaspoons butter. 

14 cup cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

Select large oysters. Wash, drain and dry between towels. 
Melt butter. Season cracker crumbs with salt and pepper. 
With silver fork lift each oyster by tough muscle, and dip 
first in butter, then in crumbs. Place on a buttered fine wire 
broiler and broil, turning often until brown and the juice be- 
gins to flow. Serve plain, garnished with parsley and a piece 
of lemon or prepare cream toast and sprinkle with fine 
chopped celery, and place the broiled oysters on top. 

CREAKED OYSTERS, 284 CALORIES 1 
(Individual Hule.) 
8 oysters. % cup rich milk or thin cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. Salt. 

114 tablespoon flour. White pepper,. 

Wash, drain and dry oyster between towels. Melt butter 
and remove from fire, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk. Season with salt and pepper. Cook thor- 
oughly. Add the oysters and heat until the edges curl and 
the bodies grow plump. Serve at once on rounds of toast 
and garnish with toast points and parsley or in crisped " bread 
cases." See " Creamed Pish." 

CREAMED OYSTERS ITO. II, 340 CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup thin cream or rich milk. 1 teaspoon butter. 

1 tablespoon flour. 8 oysters. 

Yi. teaspoon salt. 

" Calculated with whole milk. 
' Calculated with thin cream. 



OYSTERS 171 

Wet the flour with a little cold milk ; scald the cream, add' 
the flour and cook well. Just before serving add the drained 
oysters and cook until they grow plump and the edges curl; 
add the salt and butter. Serve in Swedish timbale shells, lit- 
tle scooped-out buns, or on rounds of toast. 

SCALLOFES OYSTEBS, 365 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
^^ cup oysters. Salt. 

% eup cracker crumbs. Pepper. 

% cup stale bread crumbs. l^ tablespoon cream. 

1 tablespoon- melted butter. 1 tablespoon oyster- liquor. 

■ Prepare the oysters. Stir together crumbs and melted but- 
ter. Butter a small baking dish and sprinkle part of the 
crumbs in it. Put in half the oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of crumbs, pour over enough cream 
or oyster liquor to moisten well, add the remaining oysters, 
season, and finish with a layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a 
hot oven about ten minutes, till oysters are plump and crumbs 
browned. Serve hot. 

N^ever allow more than ,two layers as they will not cook 
evenly. A sprinkling of mace or nutmeg is considered an 
improvement by some. Sherry wine may be used in place 
of cream. 

OYSTER SOUP, 253 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup water. % tablespoon flour. 

% cup milk. Grating of mace. 

Bit of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the scalded milk ; add mace and onion, and cook 
thoroughly. 

Put oysters in a strainer placed over a bowl, add water and 
carefully pick over oysters to remove particles of shell. Heat 
liquor which has drained from oysters to the boiling point, 
strain through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth and return to 



172 ANIMAL FOODS 

saucepan, add oysters and cook until plump and edges curl. 
Drain off liquor and add to soup. Season, add oysters and 
serve immediately. 

OYSTER SOXJF (rOR THE DIABETIC), 107 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
One-half pint of oysters, heated in their own liquor ; strain. 
Put in saucepan one-half teaspoonful butter and a scant half- 
teaspoonful of Gum Gluten Flour, add liquor, and, when 
slightly thick, oysters, pepper and salt. For variety, add 
occasionally a tablespoonful of cream. 

OYSTER STEW, 205 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup oysters. y^, teaspoon salt. 

% cup milk. Speck pepper. 

% tablespoon water % tablespoon butter. 

Scald the milk. Put oysters in a strainer placed over a 
bowl, and add water. Carefully pick over oysters to remove 
particles of shell. Heat the liquor which has drained from 
the oysters to the boiling point, and strain through the finest' 
strainer and cheese-cloth, return to saucepan and put in the 
oysters and simmer, but do not boil, until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl and separate. Strain the liquor 
into the scalded milk, season, add oysters and serve imme- 
diately. 

CLAMS 

ENERGY VALUE OF CLAMS 

% dozen clams ^40 Calories. 

31/3 ounces clam bouillon = 2 Calories. 

1 quart clam bouillon ! . = 23 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS 
Serve raw on the half-shell in same manner as raw oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS 
For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash 
in several waters, scrubbing thoroughly. Put into kettle. 



CLAMS 173 

allowing one-fourth cup water to one quart clams. Cover 
closely and steam until clams partially open. Care should 
be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. A 
few drops of lemon juice may be added to butter. 

CLAU BROTH 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 dozen clams. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

AVash clams and scrub with a brush, changing the water 
several times. Put in saucepan, add water, cover, and cook 
until shells open. Eemove clams from shell, adding liquor 
which comes from them, to liquor already in saucepan. 
Strain liquor through double thickness of cheese-cloth. Serve 
hot, cold, or frozen. 

CLAM WATER 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired. Serve hot, cold, or frozen. 
"When necessary, serve in small quantity and repeat at short 
intervals. 

Note. — Clam broth served in the several ways (as a 
variety) is invaluable in case of weak stomach, indigestion 
and general debility. 

CLAU WATER NO. II, 17 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
^ cup Clam Broth. Pepper. 

1 tablespoon milk. % teaspoon butter. 

% cup hot water. 

Blend the clam broth, milk and hot water, season with 
pepper and add the butter. Serve hot. 

Note. — The pepper and butter may be omitted when neces- 
sary. 



174 ANIMAL FOODS 

CLAU STEW, 250 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup clam broth. Vs teaspoon salt. 

1/2 cup scalded milk. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter. Soft part of 1 dozen clams. 

Yg tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter, add flour, add gradually the scalded milk and 
clam broth, and cook thoroughly. Season, add clams and 
serve hot. 

CLAU SOTTF, 276 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

% dozen clams. % tablespoon butter. 

% cup cold water. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper. 

Wash and scrub clams and put in kettle with cold water. 
Cook until shells open. Take from shell and cut ofE the 
tough parts; save the soft parts for the soup and keep warm. 
Add the milk to the juice. Melt the butter, add the flour and 
pour on gradually the hot liquid. Cook thoroughly; season 
with salt and pepper, add soft parts of clams, and serve 
immediately and hot. 

CLAU BOTTILLON, 45 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup cold water. Salt. 

% cup clam broth. Pepper. 

% cup scalding milk. Celery sauce. 

Yg teaspoon butter. White of egg or whipped cream. 

Blend the water and clam broth, heat to the boiling point, 
then add the scalding milk, the butter, and stir well ; season 
with salt, pepper and celery sauce to taste. A small quan- 
tity of cracker crumbs, may be added to thicken it.. Serve in 
heated bouillon cups and garnish with two teaspoons of 
whipped cream or well-beaten white of egg. 



EGQS 175 

clah bouillon bisque, sss calories 

(Two Servings.) 
% tablespoon butter. % tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 cup boiling water. 

% tablespoon chopped carrot. Yolk 1 egg. 
1 cup clam broth. 14 cup cream. 

Melt the butter, add the finely chopped onion and carrot, 
cover and cook until the onion and carrot are tender, stirring 
it occasionally. Add the flour, blending well; then pour on 
gradually the boiling water and the clam broth. Cook five 
minutes, strain and return to saucepan. Mix the yolk of egg 
with the cream, and add it slowly to the Bisque. Pour into 
heated bouillon cups, and serve with small oyster crackers. 

ALBTJIiIimZEI) CLAK WATER 

See " Albuminized Beverages " for recipe. Page 133. 

CLAM BROTH NO. II 

See " Meat Broth and Jellies " for recipe. Page 230. 

CLAM BROTH ON TOAST 

See " Toast " for recipe. Page 358. 
CLAU PRAFFE 
See " Ices " for recipe. Page 315. 

CLAM SHERBET 
See " Sherbets " for recipe. Page 313. 

EGGSi 

Many kinds of eggs are eaten, but hens' eggs are the only 
ones necessary of consideration as a staple article of diet. 
The shell constitutes about 1.1 per cent, of the weight of the 
whole egg, the yolk 33 per cent., and the white 57 per cent. 

Composition. Eggs are albuminous in nature and con- 
sist practically of the following substances — protein, water, 
fat and mineral matter. The composition of the hen's egg is 
as follows: 

* For further information, note " Eggs and Their Uses as Food." Farm- 
er's Bulletin No. 128, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



176 ANIMAL FOODS 

Fuel value 
Refuse Water Proteia Fat Ash per pound 

calories 

Whole egg as purchased. ..12.2% 66.5% 11.9% 9.3% 0.9% 635 

Whole egg, edible portion. . 73.7% 13.4% 10.5% 1.0% 720 

White 86.2% 12.3% 0.2% 0.6% 250 

Yollc 49.5% 15.7% 33.3% 1.1% 1705 

From this table it may be seen that the white of egg con- 
sists of eight-tenths water, the remaining portion being prin- 
cipally protein (albumin), with a little mineral matter, etc., 
the yolk is about half water, one-third fat, and nearly one- 
sixth protein, with ahnost twice as much mineral matter as 
the white. 

Varieties. By eggs the product of the domestic fowl are 
commonly meant. The eggs of the duck, goose, turkey, etc., 
are edible, but are hardly suited for the sick, because of their 
stronger flavor. The purely white eggs are usually selected 
for the invalid, but many regard the brown-shelled egg as the 
more delicate. 

Digestibility. Eggs are easily digested and very thoroughly 
absorbed in the intestines. If the absorption is delayed, de- 
composition follows with production of sulphuretted hydrogen 
and ammyiia, which causes considerable gastro-enteric disturb- 
ance. The yolk is usually the cause of this disturbance. The 
digestibility of an egg depends upon its freshness and the 
manner in which it is cooked. ^Carelessness in cooking and 
serving may make an egg difficult of digestion and un- 
appetizing, when, if it is cooked properly, it would be more 
palatable and easy of digestion. A raw egg, on account of its 
blandness, does not stimulate the flow of gastric juice and is 
not as easily digested as a soft-cooked egg; but by heating a 
raw egg the albumin is finely divided and is more quickly 
acted upon by gastric juice, consequently is digested about 
as quickly as a soft-cooked egg. Raw eggs are added to 
various foods, as milk and broth, etc., to give extra nutriment. 
Eggs are freely prescribed for those suffering from loss of 
flesh and strength, as the convalescent, aneemic, or in tubercu- 

^See Albumin, p. 11. 



EGGS 177 

losis; in such cases as many as twelve eggs being given in as 
many hours. 

A soft-cooked egg digests very quickly. 

A medium-cooked egg is not as easily digested as either 
the raw, soft or hard-cooked, and should not be served cooked 
in this manner to the sick. 

A hard-cooked egg as commonly cooked is difficult to di- 
gest, but cooked at proper temperature and chopped very fine 
will digest about as quickly as a soft-cooked egg. 

Nutritive Value. Eggs are a very nutritious food, com- 
parable with' meat, milk, cheese, and other animal foods, both 
as regards total food material and the total protein and fat 
furnished by them. At twenty-five cents per dozen they are 
commonly considered very expensive, but this must not be 
interpreted too literally. Many persons will be satisfied with 
an egg who would not be with the equivalent food value in 
the form of meat, and eggs are valuable for giving variety 
to the diet and for furnishing an easily digested protein food, 
especially for the sedentary. For children they are much 
better than meat, because the fat is in an emulsified, and 
hence easily digested form, and because of their ash con- 
stituents. The yolk is rich in compounds of iron, phosphorus, 
calcium, magnesium. The protein of egg yolk is combined 
with lecithin, a phosphorized fat which has come to be re- 
garded as an important constituent of food, especially for the 
growing animal. Egg yolks are frequently prescribed for 
invalids requiring an easily assimilated, concentrated food. 
It should be remembered that when fat is barred from the 
diet, egg yolk should not be given. 

Egg white is valuable chiefly as a source of protein. Be- 
cause of its mild flavor it can be combined with many sub- 
stances, especially milk and other beverages (See "Al- 
buminous Beverages," page 118), to increase the nutritive 
value of a liquid or semi-solid diet. 

With some persons, eggs induce constipation, or have a 
slight aphrodisiac effect. They contain sulphur, and unless 
digested before decomposition occurs in the alimentary tract. 



178 ANIMAL FOODS 

give rise to hydrogen sulphide gas. They should not be eaten 
hy those suffering from flatulent dyspepsia, gastric dilatation, 
or any severe gastric derangement. They are contraindicated 
in acute Bright's disease. 

Principles to be Observed in CooJcing. The principal con- 
stituent of the egg is albumin, which should be cooked in 
£uch a manner as to require the least possible expenditure of 
force in digestion. Those vrho are ill cannot afford to waste 
energy, and whether they are forced to do so or not depends 
much upon those who prepare their food. 

E-ffect of Temperature on Albumin. See " Albumin," page 
11. 

The proper cooking temperature of egg albumin is 160 to 
180 degree Fahrenheit, when it is found to be tender, soft, 
jelly-like, and in an easily digested state. 

But cooked at the boiling point of water, 312 degrees 
Fahrenheit, albumin is found to be firm, compact, tough and 
indigestible. With this knowledge we can appreciate the 
necessity of cooking eggs at a temperature below that of boil- 
ing water. It is often advisable to cook the white and yolk 
■of eggs separately, as the yolk when hard cooked (at proper 
temperature) and mealy is more easily digested than the 
soft cooked yolk, and the white more easily digested soft 
cooked. 

Suggestions. Eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Always wash eggs ]ust before using. Save the shell for mak- 
ing boiled coffee, as the shells of three eggs is as effective in 
settling coffee as one whole egg. "When using several egg^ 
break them separately in a saucer to test the quality of each. 

In beating fresh eggs to a stiff froth the albumin entraps' 
the air, forming bubbles which expand and stiffen when ex- 
posed to heat and blended with batter and dough, thus mak- 
ing the food light and spongy. Stale eggs lose this quality 
of frothiness. 

Test for Fresh Eggs. (1) The shell of a fresh egg is 
slightly rough ; held to the ear and shake slightly there should 
be little sound, held in front of electric light or candle in 



EGGS 179 

a dark room if they look more transparent in center they are 
fresh, if more transparent at ends, are stale. 

(3) In a solution made of two ounces of common salt and 
one pint of water, an egg one day old will sink (not quite 
reach the bottom) ; three days old will barely float above the 
surface, and seven days old will float above the surface. This 
is due to the loss of water and to the development of gases of 
putrefaction. Unless air is excluded from eggs they very 
quickly deteriorate in value and decompose. 

The water in the egg evaporates through the shell, which 
is porous, and air rushes in to take its place, causing decompo- 
sition of the organic matter of the egg, the result being the 
formation of various gases — principally sulphuretted hydro- 
gen, due to the action of putrefactive bacteria which enter 
the shell with air. Eggs eaten in this state may cause gastric 
and intestinal disorders, therefore, unless eggs are perfectly 
fresh, they should not be given to a child or a person of 
delicate digestion or the sick. 

ENERGY VALUE OF AN EGG 

1 average egg =60 Calories. 

1 average white of egg =13 Calories. 

1 average yolk of egg =48 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of boiling 
water to cover; remove to back of stove, or where the water 
will keep very hot, but" not boil. Cook seven to ten minutes, 
according to consistency desired. Serve in slightly heated 
cups. 

Note. — A stone crock is nice to use, as it keeps more event 
heat. A double boiler may be used, putting boiling water 
in top and bottom, set on back of stove and cook six to seven 
minutes, according to size of egg. 

Care must be taken that the size of utensil is in accordance 
with the number of eggs to be cooked, so that the cold eggs 



180 ANIMAL FOODS 

"will lower the temperature of the boiling water. Keep tem- 
perature about 160 degree Fahtenheit, or a little above. 

SOPT COOKED EGGS NO. II 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of cold water 
to cover. Bring just to boiling point, remove and serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

HABD COOKED E06S 

Follow directions for soft cooked eggs No. I, allowing egg 
to remain in water forty-five minutes. Chop fine and add 
one-half teaspoon butter and a -few grains salt, serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

STEAUED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer or a small sauce-plate and pour in 
the eggs. Salt, place in steamer over boiling water, and 
cook till white is firm. Cooked in this manner, the white is 
tender and light and can be eaten by invalids. 

BAKES EGGS 

Plain baked eggs make a pretty breakfast dish. Take a 
deep earthen plate, butter it and break in the eggs, adding 
salt, pepper, bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the white is set. Garnish with curled parsley and serve with 
buttered toast. Use a small dish to prepare one egg. 

Note. — Before cooking i/^ tablespoon of cream to each 
€gg may be poured over them, and in. serving a little grated 
cheese may be sifted over the top. 

BAKED EGGS (FOB, THE DIABETIC) 

Break an egg into a baking-cup, pour gently over it a large 
tablespocnful of melted butter sauce; then add a thick layer 
of grated cheese ; sprinkle with Gum Gluten cracker crumbs, 
and dot with bits of butter. Bake until the egg is set, and 
serve at once. 



EGGS 181 

GOLDEN-ROD £G&S 

1 hard-cooked egg = 60 Calories. 2 slices toast := 146 Calories. 

Sauce = 170 Calories. 

2 teaspoons butter. Speck white pepper. 
• l^ tablespoon flour. Salt. 

% cup scalded milk. 

Prepare the sauce. Add the white of egg chopped fine, 
pour over the toast and rub the yolk through a strainer over 
the top. Serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalded 
milk; cook well and season with salt and pepper. 

EGG NESTS, 142 CALOBIES 
■ 1 egg. 1 round of toast with toast 

14 teaspoon butter. points. 

Salt to taste. 

Toast bread. Separate egg. Beat white to a stiff froth. 
Salt to taste. Spread toast with butter and put white of egg 
on in shape of nest. Make a depression in center, put in the 
butter and drop the yolk in the hollow. Cook in a moderate 
oven three or four minutes. 

Note. — May be cooked in tumbler placed in pan of water, 
allowing the water to heat gradually, and as the white rises, 
make a depression and drop in yolk. 

It may be served with Tomato Sauce. 

FOAHT OKELET, 144 CAIOBIES 

1 egg. V2 saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon milk. Speck pepper. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Separate egg and beat white to a stiff froth. Beat yolk 
till light, add milk, salt and pepper; lightly fold the yolk 
into the white. Put butter into saute pan, when it bubbles 
pour in the mixture. Gently shake pan so omelet will not 
adhere to it ; lift up at sides with a knife to see when done, 
and when a delicate brown set pan in oven a minute to 
absorb moisture on top. Fold omelet, half over, turn on a 
hot dish, and serve immediately. 



182 ANIMAL FOODS 

Variations. Mix one tablespoon ham, or any meat, 
chopped fine, with foamy omelet, and cook as directed. Or 
when omelet is cooked, the chopped meat may be spread over 
before folding. A little chopped parsley may be added. Oys- 
iers either whole or chopped, or creamed chicken, stewed or 
sliced tomatoes, asparagus tips, peas or jelly may be used. 

BAKED UEAT OMELET 
Prepare Foamy Omelet and add to it the chopped meat. 
Put it into a buttered pudding-dish, set it in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm. 

BREAD OUEXET, 164 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons milk. 1 egg. 

Speck salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Soak bread crumbs in the cold milk for ten minutes, add 
the salt and pepper. Separate egg and beat until light. Add 
-the crumbs and milk to the yolk and fold in the white. Pol- 
low general directions as for Foamy Omelet. 

POACHED OR DROPPED EGGS 
Toast a square or round piece of bread and four toast 
points ; put on hot plate with points at each side and garnish 
with a sprig of parsley. Have a shallow pan two-thirds full 
of boiling salted water, allowing one teaspoon salt to one pint 
'B'ater. Put a slightly buttered muffin ring on a buttered 
skimmer in the water. Break an egg into the ring. The 
-water should cover the egg. When there is a film on top and 
the white is firm, carefully take up skimmer, remove ring, 
loosen egg with a knife and place on the toast; salt slightly. 
The toast may be buttered if desired. 

EGG POACHED ITSt UILK, 470 CALORIES 

1 egg. Salt. 

lYg teaspoons butter. 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

% cup thin cream. 

Melt butter in top of double boiler, add cream and when 
hot drop in carefully the egg. Cook until white is nearly 



EGGS 183 

firm, add salt and Bprinkle with cheese. Serve on toast. 
Cheese may be omitted. 

CODDLED OR SCBAUBIED EGGS, 180 CALORIES 
1 egg. 1 saltspoon salt. 

% cup milk. Speck pepper. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Beat egg in top of double boiler until light, add milk and 
rest of ingredients and stir over boiling water until it thick- 
ens; allow it to stand a few minutes without stirring, to set. 
Serve on toast or hot rice. 

EGG SANDWICHES, 96 CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mustard. 

Yi teaspoon salt. 3 drops vinegar. 

Speck paprika. 1 tea-spoon butter. 

Mince the egg very fine with a silver fork, add seasonings 
and butter, and mix thoroughly. Butter very thin slices of 
bread, spread with egg mixture, cover it with watercress 
leaves, or bits of nasturtium leaves, or lettuce. Cover with 
another slice of bread, and cut in triangles or rounds. Serve 
on small plate and doily. 

Ifote. — Minced ham may be added to egg mixture.- 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer, ramikins, or small earthen cups; 
put one egg in each without breaking yolk ; dust with salt and 
white pepper, put in pan of hot water and cook on back of 
range or in a moderate oven until white is set. If baked,, 
cover with a buttered paper to keep from browning. 

SHIRRED EGGS HO. II 

Butter small, deep earthen dishes and line with fine white 
bread crumbs moistened to a paste, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Break an egg in each, sprinkle with a few grains, 
of salt, cover with more paste and bake in a pan of hot water, 
placed in the oven. When egg is set, serve with two table- 
spoons of tomatoes or cream sauce poured over it, and garnish, 
with a sprig of parsley. 



184 ANIMAL FOODS 

FILLED EGGS, 96 CALORIES 
1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon butter or Paprika. 

1 teaspoon olive oil. Salt. 

Eemove the shell and cut the egg in halves lengthwise. 
Take out the yolk carefully without breaking the white. Eub 
the yolk to a smooth paste, adding the butter or oil and the 
seasonings, and mix thoroughly. A small quantity of finely 
chopped ham, tongue or chicken may be added. Pill the 
whites with the mixture and serve on lettuce, or in a bed of 
parsley. 

EGG DESSERTS 

See " ISTutritious Desserts " for recipe. Page 386. 
ALBUUINOUS DRINKS 

See " Albuminous Drinks " for recipe. Page 118. 

MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS ^ 

Milk is the only substance in nature designed expressly for 
the nourishment of the young animal. It contains all the 
compounds necessary to support life, in remarkably good pro- 
portions and in very assimilable forms. It is a perfect food 
for infants, and is specially suited to the needs of certain 
classes of invalids and sedentary persons. Por the active 
adult it is undesirable as the sole article of diet, because the 
proportion of water is so high that large quantities have to 
be taken to supply the necessary energy; because the propor- 
tion of protein is unnecessarily high ; and because it furnishes 
no indigestible residues to supply bulk for the perfect func- 
tioning of the intestines. 

Composition. Milk contains the five food principles, the 
proportions varying somewhat with different species, and also 
with individuals of the same species. Cow's milk, which is 
most extensively used, is the only kind which will be con- 
sidered here. Milk has a specific gravity of 1.027 to 1.035. 

^ For further information, note "The Use of 'Mi[^c as Food,** Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 363, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



MILK AND MILE PRODUCTS 185 

The chief bulk is water, which averages 87 per cent. The 
solid matter is made up of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The average percentages are as follows: 
Protein, 3.3 per cent. ; fat, 4 per cent. ; carbohydrates, 5 per 
cent ; mineral matter, 0.7 per cent. 

The principal protein is casein, a compound containing 
both phosphorus and sulphur. Casein is precipitated (or 
coagulated) by the addition of acid or in neutral solutions, 
by rennet. Milk also contains lactalbumin, arranging about 
1/7 of the total protein. The character of the curd depends 
largely on the relative proportions of casein and lactalbumin. 

The fat of milk varies widely in amount. It is found 
throughout the milk in globules, i. e., as an emulsion. On 
standing, the fat rises to the top and forms cream chemically. 
Several fats are present, chiefly stearin, palmitin and olein, 
with smaller amounts of others, which give the characteristic 
flavor to butter. The chief carbohydrate is lactose or milk 
sugar. This remains in the whey when the casein and fat 
are removed. 

The ash constituents are mainly phosphates and chlorides 
of calcium, sodium and potassium. 

Digestibility. While milk is taken as a liquid, it should 
really be regarded as a solid food, for in the stomach it is 
coagulated by the action of the enzyme rennin in the gastric 
juice. If the milk is swallowed hastily, a large, tenacious 
curd may form, which will remain long in the stomach, and 
the milk will be regarded as difficult of digestion. If the 
milk is sipped slowly — or eaten with a spoon — the curds will 
be small, and hence readily acted on by the gastric juice. 
For this reason, the combination of milk with another food 
material, as bread or cereal gruel, may render it more easily 
digestible. Many persons think that they cannot digest milk. 
This is seldom true, if the above precautions are taken. 

Nutritive Value. Milk is a high protein food. In infancy 
it therefore furnishes the nitrogen necessary for the forma- 
tion of new protoplasm. Throughout the growing period, it 
furnishes the most valuable source of protein, as it is non- 



186 ANIMAL FOODS 

stimulating, and less liable to putrefaction in the alimentary 
tract than meat proteins. Given a quart of milk and an egg 
each day, a child under eight years of age on a suitable diet 
of proper fuel value, will have sufficient protein for all body 
needs. 

The fat of milk, being in- an emulsified form, is more 
readily digested than the fat of meats and other similar foods. 
The carbohydrates of milk require only transformation to 
simple sugars by the intestinal enzyme lactase, to be per- 
fectly utilized. Often the energy value of milk is increased 
for infants and invalids, by addition of this soluble, mild- 
flavored compound. 

The ash of milk contains the elements required for the 
bony tissues in particularly assimilable forms. It is lack- 
ing in iron, so that this element must be supplied by other 
foods (as yolk of egg) when milk is the chief source of nutri- 
ment. 

The value of milk as a food is not appreciated by many 
people. It is frequently regarded as a beverage rather than 
nutriment, while in fact a quart of milk is equivalent in food 
value to half a loaf of bread (six ounces) or three-quarters of 
a pound of lean beef. It contains as much protein as one- 
third of a pound of lean beef, at approximately the same 
price, and in addition about as much fat as is daily con- 
sumed at the table in the form of butter, over one and one-half 
ounces of milk sugar, and valuable mineral salts. Compared 
with other animal foods milk is a cheap food, even at 10 or 12 
cents per quart, and should enter freely into the dietary. It 
need not be used as a beverage if disliked, but can be combined 
with other materials in soups, sauces for vegetable, custards 
and the like, or used in cooking cereals, in place of water. 

The value of skim milk as a food also needs to be empha- 
sized. It has lost most of the fat in the skimming processes, 
but is correspondingly richer than whole milk in protein, 
carbohydrates and ash. It is not as rich in flavor as whole 
milk, but used in combination with other foods it forms a 
very inexpensive source of valuable nutriment, two and one- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 187 

half quarts of skim milk will yield as much protein as a 
pound of lean round steak, at less than one-fourth the cost. 

Care of milk. The importance of keeping milk clean can- 
not be over-emphasized. Aside from all esthetic considera- 
tions, absolute cleanliness is essential as a protection to 
health. Milk is an excellent culture medium for bacteria, and 
these organisms may not only be of types producing changes 
in the character of the milk, such as alterations in flavor, 
odor, color, decomposition of proteins, formation of gases, 
alcohol, lactic acid, etc., but also disease germs, especially 
those of tuberculosis, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, and diph- 
theria. 

Commercially, care of milk is important as effecting the 
keeping qualities. For all these reasons, milk should come 
from a healthy animal in a sanitary environment. Milking 
must be done under conditions which protect the milk as 
fully as possible from contamination through impurities on 
the cow herself, on the hands or clothing of the milker, in 
the receptacles used for the milk, and in the air, in the place 
where the milking is done. Milk should be immediately 
cooled, and transported to the consumer in sealed bottles; 
cooling prevents the growth of bacteria. Such cautions 
necessarily increase the price of milk, but even then milk is 
a cheap food and the additional security is worth paying 
for. 

Certification of Milk. To insure a milk free from im- 
purities, the method of certification and pasteurization have 
heen widely adopted. 

Certification involves a specific testing of milk against all 
accidental and harmful contamination. To secure it the 
services of chemists, bacteriologists and veterinary surgeons 
are required. The most vital object desired is the exclusion 
of tubercule bacilli from milk, which involves a special in- 
spection of dairy herds and rejection of tuberculous cows. 
Other pernicious germs, pus corpuscles, etc., are also sought 
for. 

Certification of milk requires periodical inspection of 



188 ANIMAL FOODS 

dairies, of bottled milk bought in open market, etc. All milk 
must correspond to a number and variety of tests, too numer- 
ous to be mentioned in this connection. Every branch of 
the milk trade is covered. Such milk receives a certificate 
which should contain the date of milking and is naturally ex- 
pensive, but it should be used whenever possible for infants 
and little children, and for all purposes in households which 
buy the best grades of other food materials. 

Pasteurization. This is the process by which milk is ren- 
dered more or less sterile through destruction of active bac- 
teria by heat. Various standards as to temperature and 
time have been adopted, but in general the milk is heated 
to a temperature not exceeding 167° P., for a period of 20 to 
45 minutes, and then rapidly cooled to 45° F. or lower. 
Most harmful bacteria and lactic acid bacteria are killed. 
Spores are not killed, and if the milk is not kept cold or is 
allowed to stand too long, putrefactive organisms develop. 
These putrefactive changes are very undesirable, so that the 
care of pasteurized milk is Just as important as that of fresh 
milk. If carelessly handled, the fact that it does not sour 
readily is a menace to health rather than a benefit. 

Commercial pasteurization is a cheap and effective means of 
preventing the spread of ordinary infectious diseases. The 
degree of heat used does not change materially the flavor nor 
the chemical composition of the milk. It does destroy the 
enzymes naturally present in milk, and how much this affects 
the value of milk for infants is still unsettled. When clean 
fresh milk cannot be absolutely insured, it is safer to pas- 
teurize. But this process cannot make bad milk good nor 
dirty milk clean. If bacteria have already produced poison- 
ous products it will not destroy them. 

Sterilization. Sterilization is accomplished by keeping 
milk at boiling temperature (212° P.) for 10 or more minutes, 
preferably in the vessel in which it is to remain. This will 
kill all living bacteria, but will not destroy spores. Hence 
to render milk absolutely sterile, repetition of the process on 
successive days is necessary. This is rarely done, as the 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 189 

spores are not likely to develop if the milk is kept at a 
temperature of 40° F. or less. 

Sterilized milk is not an ideal food. Boiling changes the 
taste, the cream does not rise as quickly, and it is less easily 
coagulated by the action of rennet. Lecithin is decomposed, 
diminishing the amount of organic phosphorus compounds, 
and increasing the inorganic phosphorus which is not as use- 
ful to the body. The calcium salts are changed, and the 
ferments of the milk destroyed. Sterilization should be re- 
garded as an emergency measure, for hot weather, when cool- 
ing facilities are lacking. 

MILK PRODUCTS 

Butter. Butter consists almost entirely of separated milk 
fat. Churning causes the fat globules to unite into a solid 
mass. The cream is first allowed to ripen for some hours. 
This process gives the characteristic taste and odor, which is 
due to action of bacteria. When kept, butter tends to turn 
rancid, owing to the fermentation of a small quantity of casein 
present. Salt is added largely to prevent this change. But- 
ter is very palatable, and one of the most digestible forms 
of fat. 

Cheese. Cheese is made from full milk, skim milk or 
cream. It consists of the casein of the milk and more or 
less of the fat and mineral matters. The flavor is due to the 
action of enzymes in molds or bacteria. Cheese is a very 
concentrated nutritious food, and very thoroughly assimilated. 
It is not usually well borne by invalids and convalescents, 
however. 

Cream. Cream is the fatty layer which forms at the top 
of milk which is allowed to stand undisturbed. It contains 
the fat of the milk, water, some protein, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The percentage of fat is exceedingly vari- 
able, ranging from about 16 per cent, to 40 per cent. The 
cream which rises on milk after 24 hours is called gravity 
cream and contains about 16 per cent. fat. The richer creams 
are obtained by centrifugalizing the milk. Cream in large 



190 ANIMAL FOODS 

quantities is less easily digested than an equal amount of 
whole milk because of the large amount of fat, but this form 
of fat is easily digested compared with other food fats, and 
hence is often ordered by physicians. 

Curds. When milk sours, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid by the action of laqtic acid bacteria upon the 
sugar, or when the enzyme rennet is added to fresh milk at 
body temperature, and the clot is stirred, the curds separate 
from the whey. 

Curds consist of coagulated casein, which commonly car- 
ries with it the fat ; gentle heat facilities this separation, but 
a high temperature renders the curd tough and indigestible; 
with or without the addition of cream, curds are used as 
cottage cheese. It is a very cheap, nutritious food. 

Junket. If sweet milk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet, the thickened, custard-like mass 
is called junket. This is a valuable method of using milk, 
especially for invalids, children, and those who from personal 
idiosyncrasy cannot drink milk. 

Whey. This substance may be either sweet when formed 
by junket or sour when otherwise produced. It contains 
most of the lactose, lactalbumin and ash constituents of the 
milk, but has so little nutritive value, owing to the removal of 
the milk fat and casein, that it may be regarded as a beverage. 
See page 185. 

Sour MilTe. When whole milk sours, with the formation 
of " curds and whey," the entire product is known as clabber 
or bonny-clabber. It is wholesome, and nutritious, since it 
contains all the ingredients naturally present in milk. By 
some it is used as a beverage. When not so relished, it can be 
used to good advantage in cooking, adding its nutritive value 
to any dish in which it is incorporated. 

Buttermilh. True buttermilk, which is common on farms, 
is seldom found in commerce. Unless produced where sold, 
its genuineness may be a matter of question. Those who are 
familiar with the genuine article state that the delicacy of 
its flavor, its consistency, etc., are much superior to the so- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 191 

called buttermilk of commerce. The composition of the two 
articles is practically the same. When skim milk, the cream 
having been removed by the separator, is allowed to sour, it 
is said to resemble ordinary buttermilk, and the fluid which 
goes by the latter name, sold extensively throughout Greater 
New York, is said to be sour skim milk. 

Metschnickojf Artificially Soured Milk. The announce- 
ment some years ago by Metschnickoff that the foregoing 
products were of very great hygienic and therapeutic value in 
disinfecting the intestines has resulted in the wholesale pro- 
duction of a substance which differs from ordinary sour 
milk in that it is prepared from a pure culture of lactic- 
acid germs. This product is doubtless destined to replace 
the older ones on account of its freedom from undesirable 
forms of bacteria. The technique for preparing it, devised 
originally by Metschnickoff himself, also places it in a higher 
class than the older preparations. The pure culture is sold 
in the solid form as Buttermilk Tablets. 

Fermented Milk. Milk which has been fermented is really 
a derivative of native milk, and in parts of Europe and Asia 
constitutes an important article of diet. The fermentation 
is either the lactic alone or lactic and alcoholic together. 

The ferments used consist chiefly of various " leavens " 
or cultures which cause lactic acid fermentation. People who 
have subsisted on this milk for centuries simply use a por- 
tion of old fermented milk to leaven fresh milk. These 
leavens vary considerably in composition, and the milk used 
2nay be from one of several domestic animals. Some leavens 
contain yeast germs, as that alcohol may or may not be 
present. The native preparations which have been imitated 
in this country are kumyss, kefir and matzoon. 

Kumyss was prepared originally from mares' milk. The 
leaven contains lactic acid germs and yeast. The product 
therefore contains lactic acid, alcohol, and carbonic acid 
gas, representing an acid, effervescing, mildly alcoholic bev- 
erage. The casein curd is finely broken up and partially 
digested. Kumyss has been imitated in America by adding 



193 ANIMAL FOODS 

yeast to milk and allowing fermentation to proceed twenty- 
four hours or over. 

Kefir was made originally from cows' milk with a leaven 
of kumyss. This has been sold in tablet form like the ren- 
net ferment. Kefir resembles kumyss so closely that no 
further description is necessary. 

Matzoon differs from the preceding chiefly in containing 
no alcohol. 

Modified Milk is milk containing definite proportions of 
fat, sugar, proteids, etc., put up usually according to the 
formula of a physician, who prescribes the quantity of the 
different constituents he desires. 

For sick children and in convalescence it is of great value 
to obtain a modification in which the composition is definite 
and accurate. It can then be known what mixtures will agree 
with the patient. 

Malted Milk is a pure food prepared from rich full-cream 
milk, combined with the valuable nutritive extracts of malted 
barley and wheat. This product being highly concentrated 
and partially predigested, supplies a large amount of nutrition 
with little tax upon the digestive organs. It is a valuable 
nutrient in dyspepsia or impaired digestion, for fever and 
wasting diseases, the convalescent, nursing mothers, and the 
aged. 

Peptonised Milk is milk in which the casein or curd has 
been made soluble and diffusible by means of the Peptonising 
Tubes. In these Peptonising Tubes, extractum pancreatis, 
containing the pancreatic ferment which acts especially upon 
the proteins of milk, is combined, with soda bicarbonate in 
due proportion, and each tube contains sufficient peptonising 
powder to peptonise a pint of milk. Milk may be peptonised 
by various methods — by the "cold process," "immediate 
process," "warm process," etc. The method and degree of 
peptonisation suitable for any special case is soon determined 
by experience, by the agreeability of the milk and its digesti- 
bility. 
^ Condensed Milk. Preservation of milk by condensation 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 193 

constitutes a very extensive commercial industry. There are 
several processes in vogue, and the product is either sweet- 
ened or unsweetened. Ordinary unsweetened milk contains 
about 12 per cent, each of protein and fat and 16 per cent, 
of the native milk sugar, making the total solids 40 per cent. 
Cane sugar may be added to the amount of about 40 per cent, 
more, making the total solids 80 per cent. Milk may also 
be condensed by forcing filtered air through it, until its vol- 
ume is reduced to one-fourth the original amount. This 
product is sold in sterile bottles. Condensed milk is very 
generally used as a substitute for fresh milk. It is especially 
valuable in tropical regions and on ocean voyages. It is 
important that condensed milk be made from clean milk, and 
kept free from bacteria contamination. The unsweetened 
brands are especially liable to putrefaction, and should be 
cared for, when opened, like fresh milk. 

Desiccated Milk. When the process of condensation has 
been carried to complete expulsion of all fluid matter, a 
powder may be obtained which is sold as milk powder, des- 
iccated milk, etc. 

ENERGY VALTTE OF MILE 

1 cup of whole milk := 169 Calories. 

1 cup skimmed milk = 89 Calories. 

1 cup cream ( 18% ) = 440 Calories. 

1 cup cream (40%) := 864 Calories. 

FASTETJRIZATIOIT 

Methods of Preparing. Put bottle into kettle of cold 
water and slowly bring to the boiling point. Boil ten minutes. 
After which fill immediately nearly full with milk ; cork with 
absorbent cotton which has been baked in the oven until a 
delicate brown. Place bottles on a rest in a deep pan so that 
they will not touch bottom, and fill the pan with cold water to 
reach as high as the milk in bottles. Heat water gradually to 
155 to 167 degrees Fahrenheit, or until small bubbles appear 
in the milk next to the glass. Eemove to back of stove and 
keep milk at same temperature 30 to 46 minutes; then cool 



194 ANIMAL FOODS 

quickly to 45 degrees or lower. To cool rapidly put bottles 
:first into lukewarm water and then cold water until milk is 
cold, then surround with ice water. Keep in cold place and 
do not remove stoppers until ready to use. Note Pasteuriza- 
tion, page 188. 

Utensils. A convenient form of apparatus for pasteuriza- 
tion is known as the Hygeia Pasteurizer or Sterilizer. Or 
a covered tin pail answers well for the larger vessel, and an 
inverted pie pan with perforated bottom can serve as the 
false bottom. A hole may be punched in the cover of the 
pail, a cork inserted and a chemical thermometer put through 
the cork so that the bulb dips in the water, thus enabling one 
to watch the temperature closely without removing the cover, 
or an ordinary dairy thermometer may be used from time 
to time by removing the lid. 

STERIIIZATIOH 

The utensils and methods to sterilize milk are the same as 
for pasteurizing, except that the water is heated to the boil- 
ing point (313° P.) and the time for boiling is ten or more 
minutes. Note Sterilization, page 188. 

EVAPORATED MILK 

It is sometimes of advantage, as in cases of dilated stom- 
ach or whenever the total amount of fluids must be cut down 
to a given point, to heat the milk in a pan over which is 
placed an inverted funnel. Much of the water of the milk 
passes off as vapor, while the solids remain in the pan. 

BAKES UIIK 

Into a stone jar put one-half gallon of sweet milk; cover 
with writing paper and tie it on. Bake in moderate oven 
nine to ten hours. It will be the consistency of thick cream. 

HALTED MILK, 59 CALORIES 

Mix one tablespoon of Horlick's Malted Milk powder with 
a little tepid water to make a smooth paste ; add three-fourths 
cup water, hot or cold, stirring briskly and serve. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 195 

Note. — May be prepared with hot milk instead of water 
and a little cream added if desired. 

FEFIONISED MILK, 338 CALORIES 
Warm Process 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) into a 
clean quart bottle and shake thoroughly; add a pint of cold 
fresh milk and shake again; then place the bottle in a pail 
or kettle of warm water — about 115° P., or not too hot to 
immerse the whole hand in it without discomfort. Keep 
the bottle in the water bath for five or ten minutes, or longer 
if it is desired to peptonise the milk quite completely, then 
put it immediately on ice — directly in contact with the ice 
— in order to check the process of digestion and keep the milk 
from spoiling. 

The degree of peptonisation is very simply regulated in 
this process by the length of time during which the milk is 
kept in the water bath. It is seldom necessary to peptonise 
milk until it becomes bitter. 

PABTIALLY FEFTONISED MILE, 338 CALORIES 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Pairchild) into a 
clean saucepan, and stir well; add a pint of cold fresh milk, 
and heat, with constant stirring, to boiling point. The heat 
should be so applied that the milk will come to a boil in ten 
minutes. Let it cool to about lukewarm, then strain into a 
clean bottle or glass jar, cork tightly and keep in a cold 
place. The bottle or jar should always be well shaken before 
and after pouring out a portion. The milk may be taken 
cold or hot as the physician may direct. 

" Partially peptonised milk " if properly prepared will not 
become bitter. 

PEPTONISED MILK, 338 CALORIES 
Cold Process 
Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water into a clean quart 
bottle and dissolve in it by shaking thoroughly the powder 



196 ANIMAL FOODS 

contained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairehild) ; add 
a pint df cold fresh milk, shake the bottle again, and im- 
mediately place it on ice — directly in contact with the ice. 

The bottle should always be well shaken before and after 
pouring out a portion. 

Peptonised milh prepared by this recipe is especially ap- 
preciated iy patients who dislike the taste of warmed or 
boiled milk, and ordinarily it is readily digested and assimi- 
lated. 

PEPTONISED MILK 
Immediate Process 

Put two tablespoons (1 oz.) of cold water into a goblet 
or glass; dissolve in this one-quarter of the contents of a 
Peptonising Tube (Pairchild) ; add eight tablespoonfuls 
(4 ozs.) of warm milk — not boiling; drink immediately, 
sipping slowly; 85 calories. 

To prepare half a pint of milk, use half the contents of a 
Peptonising Tube, 4 tablespoonfuls of water, a half pint of 
milk; 169 calories. 

SPECIAILT PEPTONISED MILE, 338 CALORIES 

For Making Milk Jelly, Milk Punch, Milk Lemonade, and for Use 
with Pruit Juices or Acids 

Peptonise a pint of milk by the "Warm Process," keep- 
ing the bottle in the water bath for one hour; pour the pep- 
tonised milk into a saucepan and heat to boiling, when it is 
^ready for use if it is required hot ; or it may be put on ice, in 
a bottle or any suitable container, to be used for punches, 
lemonade, etc. 

It is necessary to peptonise the milk quite completely — 
for one hour — so that it will not curdle when mixed with 
lemon juice or acid. The bitter taste of this " specially 
peptonised milk" is not evident in the jellies, punches, etc., 
and these foods are very agreeable and exceedingly assimil- 
able. 

EFFERVESCENT PEPTONISED MILK 

Into a glass put some iinely cracked ice and fill it half- 
full of vichy, Apollinaris or siphon water, add immediatelv 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 197 

peptonised milk prepared by any of the prescribed methods 
and drink while effervescing. Brandy or other spirits may be 
added if desired. 

THICKENED UILK 
See Elour Gruel. Page 239. 

RICE MIIK, 458 CALORIES 

1 ounce rice. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 pint scalded milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Soak rice twelve hours, strain and add the scalded milk, 
salt and sugar. Stir well and cook slowly one hour. Eub 
through a fine sieve (thin with more hot milk if desired). 
Taste and add more seasoning if necessary. Sago or tapioca 
may be used in the same way. 

RTTU AND JBILK, 186 CALORIES 

% cup milk. i% teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon rum or brandy. 

Use fresh or pasteurized milk. Put ingredients into a 

lemonade shaker or fruit jar (using rubber band and cover) ; 

cover well and shake until frothy. Serve in glass three- 
fourths filled. 

SHERRY OR BRANDY AND MILK, 173 CALORIES 

% cup fresh milk. % teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon brandy or Nutmeg. 
% wineglass of sherry. 

Blend as for " Eum and Milk." Fill glass three-fourths 
full and add a grating of nutmeg on top. 

CINNAMON AND MILK, 132 CALORIES i 

% cup new milk. Sugar. 

Stick cinnamon. Vs teaspoon brandy. 

Boil milk, with sufficient cinnamon to flavor pleasantly, 
and sweeten. This may be taken cold with the brandy. 
Very good in cases of diarrhoea. Children may take it warm 
without brandy. 

1 Without sugar. 



198 ANIMAL FOODS 

WHEY 

6V4 ounces whey = 50 Calories. 
1 cup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

% Hansen's Junket Tahlet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet, dissolved 
in the cold water. Allow j,t to jelly in a warm place. Then 
break up the curd and strain through two thicknesses of 
cheese-cloth, being careful to remove all the casein. Serve 
cold, with or without sweetening, and flavor as desired. 

LIQTTID PEPTONOIDS AND WHEY 
Place one tablespoonful of finely cracked ice in a small tea- 
cup. Pour over it one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids; 
stir, fill the cup with whey and drink slowly. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY 

See " Acid Drinks " for recipe. Page 113. 

lEMON WHEY 
See " Acid Drinks " for recipe. Page 113. 

WINE WHEY 
See " Acid Drinks " for recipe. Page 113. 

PANOPEPTON WITH WHEY 
Put into a small teacup one or two teaspoonfuls of clean 
crushed ice; add one tablespoonful of Panopepton, stir, then 
fill the cup with whey. Drink slowly. This is very refresh- 
ing and nourishing — an admirable liquid food for fever 
patients and convalescents. 

KTJMYSS, 328 CALORIES 
i cake Fleisehmann's yeast. 1 tablespoon water. 

114 tablespoons sugar. 1 quart milk. 

Make a thin syrup of the sugar and water and cook one 
minute. Soften the yeast in two tablespoons of lukewarm 
milk. Heat the milk until lukewarm, add other ingredients 
and shake. Put in sterile patent beer bottles, place in up- 
right position for twelve hours, at 70 degrees Fahrenheit 
(or comfortably warm room) ; then turn on side at heat 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 199 

50 degrees Fahrenheit (lower part of ice-hox). Eeady for 
use after the first twenty-four hours ; often kept several days, 
but the longer it is kept the less palatable it is. Do not 
open a bottle of kumyss without a champagne tap, or the 
cork may be punctured with a stout needle to let the gas 
escape. It should look like thick, foamy cream. 

Kumyss is especially suited for many forms of indigestion, 
nausea, fever and gastric trouble, pulmonary consumption and 
other wasting disease. 

Dr. Brush's prepared kumyss is recommended on account 
of its superiority over the home-made preparations, as the 
milk supply is controlled, and the method of preparing is 
carried out upon scientific bases. It is also more convenient, 
as it is ready for immediate use. 

UATZOON OR ZOOLAK (GERKAN HOSPITAL, NEW YORE CITY) 
1 pint = 338 Calories. 

Take forty-five pints of milk, boil thoroughly. Cream 
two or three times; that is, until all the cream is removed. 
When the milk is still quite warm add two (3) bottles of 
prepared bottled Zoolak. Mix thoroughly. Bottle quickly in 
pint bottles, not entirely full. Cork tightly immediately, and 
put in a warm place till the liquid shows creamy through the 
bottles. Then place and keep in a cold place. 

N. B. — If chilled before it is thick it remains thin and 
the flavor is spoiled. If not kept very cold after it is made 
the fermentation is carried too far. 

JUNKET, lee CALORIES 
1 eup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

14 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet dissolved 
in the cold water ; allow it to jelly in a warm place ; chill in 
ice-box; serve plain or in the various ways as directed in 
chapter " Nutritious Desserts." 

ARTIFICIAL OR HOUEMASE BTTTTERMILE 
1 cup (whole milk buttermilk) =169 Calories. 
Pasteurize fresh, sweet milk, which may be new, or partly 



200 ANIMAL FOODS 

skimmed, or entirely fat-free, as desired, by heating it to 
between 160 and 175 degrees F, and holding at such tem- 
perature for at least 20 minutes, cool to 100 degrees. 

Dissolve one Junket Brand Buttermilk Tablet in a table- 
spoon of cold milk or water and add a quart or less of the 
pasteurized milk. Leave in warm room until thick, 34 to 
36 hours. 

When milk has thickened, place in refrigerator. When 
cold, " Churn " by shaking the bottle vigorously for a minute 
or two. Or the milk may be prepared in a fruit jar, a bowl 
or a pitcher and beaten with an egg beater, until smooth and 
creamy. 

If the acid flavor is too mild, let stand cold another day. 

If desired, the milk may be diluted with one-fourth water. 
A pinch of salt may be added. 

Junket Buttermilk may be kept on ice or in refrigerator 
for a week or longer. 

SWEETBREADS 

Among epicures sweetbreads are considered a dainty and 
are certainly a most acceptable food for the sick, as they are 
easily digested, but they must not be used to excess on account 
of the large amount of uric acid which they produce. 

Definition. Sweetbreads are the pancreas and thymus 
glands of the calf, the word being used for either one or 
both organs. The thymus glands are removed and used for 
food while the animal lives on milk. The pancreas of the 
calf is sometimes called stomach sweetbread, and the thymus 
gland the neck or throat sweetbread. The latter is con- 
sidered somewhat more easily digested than the former. 

Digestibility. It is an error to state that sweetbreads are 
more digestible because they contain digestive ferments in 
life, for these are destroyed by cooking. The tenderness of 
these bodies is due doubtless to the delicate character of the 
connective tissue, and to the soft character of the gland tis- 
sue itself, which is rich in nucleo-protein. The presence of 



SWEETBREADS 201 

this nuclein is objectionable for gouty and other patients 
with uric acid disorders, but this is no contraindication for 
an occasional use of them by invalids. 

ENERGY VAIXTE OF SWEETBREADS 

100 grams (3% oz.) sweetbreads = 176 Calories. 

1 pair sweetbreads, medium size {8 oz.) . . ^399 Calories. 
1 pair sweetbreads, medium size (8 oz.), when cooked, freed from 
membrane, pipe, etc., and cut into cubes, measures three-fourths 
«up. 

TO PREPARE SWEETBREADS 
(To Parboil.) 

Eemove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge 
into cold water and allow to stand one hour. Drain. Place 
immediately in boiling water salted water to cover, allowing 
one-half tablespoon each of salt and vinegar to a pair of 
sweetbreads. Simmer twenty minutes; again drain and 
plunge into cold water that they may keep white and firm. 
Free from membrane fat and veins, and serve as desired. 

Sweetbreads are always prepared in this way for subse- 
quent cooking and are spoken of as parboiled. 

BROIIED SWEETBREADS 
Parboil and cut in halves cross-wise. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, place on a greased fine wire broiler, and broil 
five minutes over a clear fire. As soon as sweetbread is 
heated brush both sides with a little melted butter. Serve 
with creamed butter to which has been added a little lemon 
juice or simply spread with soft butter. 

CREAHED SWEETBREADS NO. I, 288 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
l^ tablespoon butter. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon flour. Vs cup sweetbreads. 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour on gradually the scald- 
ing milk. Cook thoroughly and season. Add the parboiled 
sweetbreads cut in small pieces, reheat and serve on toast and 
garnish with parsley. 



203 ANIMAL FOODS 

Note. — For Scalloped Sweetbreads put creamed sweetbreads 
in small baking dish ; cover with cracker crumbs and dot with 
bits of butter ; bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

CREAUEI) SWEETBBEABS NO. II, 968 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1 cup thin cream or rich milk. Yg teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup sweetbreads. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into one-half inch cubes. 
Blend flour with a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture ; 
scald cream in double boiler, add the flour mixture and cook 
thoroughly. Just before serving add the prepared sweet- 
breads, salt and butter. Serve hot on toasted rounds, and 
garnish with parsley, or use as a filling for Swedish tim- 
bales. 

Note. — May use equal proportions of cold cooked chicken 
and sweetbreads, reheat and serve in the cream sauce. 

TBICASSEES SWEETBREADS, 240 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 
Parboil and cut sweetbread into one-half inch pieces. 
Make a sauce using: 
2 teaspoons butter. % cup hot strong chicken broth. 

1 teaspoon flour. % cup cream. 

y^ teaspoon lemon juice. Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, allow it to simmer until 
a golden brown, then add the hot broth gradually, stirring 
constantly, lastly the cream. Season with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. A speck of curry powder may be added if 
desired. 

Put the cut sweetbread into the sauce, simmer five minutes 
and serve on sippets or squares of dry toast; garnish with 
parsley. 

SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS 
1 cup of canned peas = 100 Calories. 
Parboil and broil sweetbreads, arrange in center of plat- 
ter, and serve the peas (cooked and seasoned) around them. 

I 

* Calculated without the sweethreads 



GELATIN 303 

Or the peas may be piled in center of platter and the broiled 
sweetbreads arranged as a border. A cream sauce may be 
poured over all; for it, use the recipe in Creamed Sweet- 
breads Xo. I or II. 

GELATIN 

Source. Gelatin is a nitrogenous food classed with pro- 
teins, under the division called gelatinoids or albuminoids, and 
derived from " collagen," the chief constituent of connective 
tissue with its various modifications, as tendons, "chondri- 
gen" of cartilage, or the "ossein" of bone. "By proper 
treatment, any form of connective tissue can be made to yield 
gelatin. Hide clippings yield glue, a crude form of gelatin, 
and much commercial gelatin is simply a purified glue, derived 
from such a source. Isinglass, obtained from the swimming 
bladder of the sturgeon and other fish,^is the purest form of 
gelatin; the gelatin obtained from calves' feet is also of high 
quality." ^ 

General Principles in Coohing. Gelatin is insoluble in 
cold water, but when allowed to stand in it will swell from 
absorption of water. " Gelatin is very soluble in boiling 
water, and on cooling sets into a jelly. This jellying will 
occur in a solution containing as little as 1 per cent, of 
gelatin." ^ Gelatin is decomposed by boiling and conse- 
quently if allowed to boll will not solidify on cooling. 

Digestibility. Gelatin is very easily digested in the stom- 
ach, and readily absorbed from the small intestines. 

Nutritive Value. Although gelatin is a protein food, it 
' cannot alone support life. Proteins are made up of groups 
of amino acids, most of which it seems necessary to have 
represented in the diet, to secure complete repair of the waste 
of nitrogenous tissue. In gelatin two important acids are 
lacking ; hence not more than two-thirds of the day's nitrogen 
requirement should be given in the form of gelatin. Because 

1 state of Connecticut. Report of The Connecticut Agricultural Experi- 
ment Station. Food and Drug Products, , 1909. Being Part II of tile 
Biennial Report of 1909-1910. 



204 ANIMAL FOODS 

it can to this extent take the place of other proteins, gelatin 
has often been called a " protein-sparer," rather than a true 
protein. In the ordinary intake of animal food, not more 
than one-eighth of the total nitrogen is in the form of gelatin. 
It is usually not convenient to take more than 25 to 30 
grams (about 1 ounce) in a day. Six ounces of calf's foot 
jelly (which would be a large helping) contain less than half 
an ounce of gelatin. Jellying will occur in a solution con- 
taining as little as 1 per cent, of gelatin. Gelatin has the 
advantage (along with other proteins) of fixing a good deal 
of acid in the process of stomach digestion and is thus of 
service in cases of hyperacidity of the stomach, when given 
in other forms than acid jellies. It seems also to promote 
the secretion of gastric juice. It is useful in febrile states 
as it really belongs with liquid foods, melting as it does at 
body temperature. 

In convalescence, aeid jellies (orange, lemon, etc.,) are of 
service as a pleasant supplement to the ordinary diet, but the 
actual nutriment which they supply is small. 

Extra nutriment can be added to gelatin by combining it 
with eggs and milk, as in Snow Pudding, Charlottes of 
various kinds, Spanish Cream, etc., all of which are attrac- 
tive forms of invalid diet. 

Meat Jellies are condensed form of broth, and are prepared 
by taking any meat containing a large proportion of connec- 
tive tissues and cooking long and slowly. ' (Note broths, page 
217 for directions and recipes.) Home-made jellies, prop- 
erly prepared, have a pleasing flavor and are an agreeable 
addition to diet of an invalid, although their nutritive value 
is low. 

WINE JEIIY NO. I, 165 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons wine. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon orange juice. 

->4 cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. ' 

2 tablespoons sugar. 



GELATIN 305 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water and dissolve. Add sugar, wine, orange and lemon 
juice. When sugar is dissolved, strain through a cheese- 
cloth iijto cold, wet molds; or chill in shallow soup plate 
and when firm cut into one-half inch cubes and serve in 
sherbert or champagne glasses, or half orange shell with a 
little whipped cream on top. 

WINE JELLY NO. II, 1530 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
^2 tox shredded gelatin or 2 cups boiling water. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup wine. 
'/4 cup cold water. Speck salt. 

1V4 cups sugar. 

Cover gelatin with the cold water and let it stand about 
one-half hour. Add the boiling water, sugar and salt. Stir 
till gelatin is dissolved and add the wine. Strain through 
cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds and set in cold place 
to harden. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

PEPTONOIDS WINE JELLY, 192 CALORIES 

1/4 box gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

8 tablespoons boiling water. 1 tablespoon Liquid Peptonoids. 

Soak gelatin in tJie cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar, wine and Liquid Peptonoids. "When sugar is 
dissolved, strain and, pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

ORANGE JELLY NO. I, 1020 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup orange juice. 
y, cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water one-half hour; add the 
boiling water and dissolve. Add sugar and fruit juice, 
strain through a cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds 



206 ANIMAL FOODS 

and set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

ORANGE TELLY HO. II, 152 CALOKIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Make same as preceding. Soaking gelatin five minutes. 

Cut orange in half, crosswise, remove pulp with spoon 
and strain through cheese-cloth. Fill halves with jelly ; when 
it is hardened cut with sharp knife into thirds (which leaves 
the rim filled with jelly). Serve three pieces on small plate 
with whipped cream in center. 

ORANGE BASKETS 

Wash oranges. Eemove two sections from the upper half 
of an orange, leaving a band of peel for a handle. Dig out 
the pulp and scrape clean. Pill with lemon or orange jelly, 
cut into cubes. An attractive form to serve to children. 

Note. — If these shells are wrapped in a damp cloth they 
will retain their shape for hours. 

LEMON TELLY, 142 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar and fruit juice. When the sugar is dissolved, 
pour into cold, wet molds and put on ice to harden. 

GRAPE TELLY, 588 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon granulated gelatin, y^ cup sugar. 
14 cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. % cup Welch's grape juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water ; add boiling water and 
dissolve. Add sugar, lemon juice and grape juice; strain, 
pour into cold, wet molds and cool. 



GELATIN 207 

This recipe may be seryed in another and very inviting 
form; when the gelatin is firm, force it through a potato 
ricer. Keep on ice until ready to serve. 

PEACH TELLY, 130 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granvilated gelatin. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
1 teaspoon cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 1% tablespoons sugar. 

3 tablespoons peach juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add boiling 
water and dissolve. Add fruit juice, wine and sugar, strain 
and pour into a cold, wet mold. 

COFFEE JELLY, 529 CALORIES 
(Individual Eule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 7 tablespoons cream. 

2 tablespoons strong hot coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes. Add the hot 
coffee and dissolve; add sugar and strain. Set bowl into 
chopped ice, or ice water to cool, stirring occasionally until 
it thickens. Then' add the cream, and pour into cold, wet 
molds to chill. 

JEPTONOIDS COFFEE JELLY, 255 CALORIES i 

14 box granulated gelatin. Sugar to taste. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 8 tablespoons Liquid Peptonoids. 
8 tablespoons boiling coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes ; add the boiling 
coffee, sugar and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is dis- 
solved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 

to harden. 

CREAU JELLY, 330 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons scalded milk. Vanilla to taste. 

4 tablespoons thick cream. 

1 Without sugar. 



208 ANIMAL FOODS 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the 
scalded milk and dissolve. Add the sugar, salt, cream and 
vanilla. Stir occasionally until the mixture thickens; pour 
into cold, wet after-dinner coffee cups, or egg cups, and chill. 
Serve with Soft Custard, or cream and sugar. 

PEFTONISED MILK JELLY, 517 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 
1 pint " specially peptonised Rinds and juice of one fresh: 

milk," hot. lemon and orange. 

% box gelatin. 2 or 3 tablespoons best St. Croix 

Sugar to taste. rum, or brandy, etc. 

Soak the gelatin in a cup of cold water, pour the hot milk 
over it and add the sugar; stir until dissolved, then throw 
in the lemon and orange rinds. 

Squeeze the juice of the lemon and orange into a glass 
and strain ; stir in the rum or brandy, etc., then mix with the 
milk and gelatin; strain. 

When the mixture has cooled to a syrup so as to be almost 
ready to set, pour into molds or glasses wet in cold water 
and put on ice or in cold water or in a cold place to harden; 
if it is too warm when poured into the molds, it is apt 
to separate in setting. 

FANOFEFTON JELLY, 242 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1 ounce fresh celery (cut 2 dashes pepper. 

in small pieces). 6 tablespoons Fanopepton. 

y^ small box best gelatin. 2 cups cold water. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 

Soak the gelatin in one-half cupful of cold water for one 
hour ; put the water and celery in a double boiler on the 
fire and simmer one-half hour; add the salt, pepper, and 
soaked gelatin and stir until it is dissolved; remove from 
fire, add Panopepton; stir, and strain through linen into a 
jelly-jar, and set near ice. Serve in small quantities. 

'Without sugar. 



GELATIN 209 

PANOPEPTON JEIIY WITH ORANGE, 379 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
% small box best gelatin. Juice and peel of 1 orange. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 pint cold water. 

6 tablespoons Panopepton. 

Put the gelatin, orange peel (cut in small pieces), orange 
juice, and cold water in a dish and let it stand for one hour, 
then put in a double boiler on the^fire, add the sugar and stir 
until it is dissolved ; now strain through linen, add the Pano- 
pepton and stir well. Pour into a jelly-jar and set near ice. 
Serve in small quantities. 

MEAT JELLIES 
See " Meat Jellies " for recipe. Page 221. 

STARCHY JELLIES 
See- " Starchy Jellies " for recipe. Page 244. 

SNOW PUDDING, 934 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. % cup lemon juice. 
^4 cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

Soften gelatin in cold water, add boiling water and dis- 
solve. Add sugar, fruit juice and extract, and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Set bowl into chopped ice, or ice water, 
to cool, stirring occasionally; when jelly is quite thick fold 
in the stifBy-beaten whites of eggs, and put into cold, wet 
molds. Put on ice to harden. When firm, remove from 
molds and serve with Soft Custard No. 1. 

SNOW PUDDING, 222 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons granulated gelatin. 1% tablespoons lemon juice. 

3 tablespoons cold water. 3 tablespoons sugar. 
1/3 cup boiling water. White 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding. 



210 ANIMAL FOODS 

SPANISH CREAM, 912 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
14 box shredded gelatin or Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 6 tablespoons sugar. 
Yt cup cold water. % teaspoon salt. 

% cup boiling water. Whites 3 eggs. 

2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water, add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Heat the milk in a double-boiler. Beat the 
yolk of eggs, add sugar and salt, and pour the hot milk 
gradually onto the mixture. Eeturn to double-boiler and 
cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add the strained 
gelatin and the flavoring, and fold in carefully the well- 
beaten whites. Pour into cold, wet molds to harden. Serve 
with Soft Custard No. 1, or with Whipped Cream. 

SPANISH CREAH, 303 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. White 1 egg. 

% cup milk. Vi teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding, and serve with Orange Sauce. 

ORANGE SAUCE, 136 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
Beat white of one egg very light, add two tablespoons sugar 
gradually, beating constantly, then add one and one-half 
tablespoon orange juice and one teaspoon lemon juice. 

BAVARIAN CREAM, 205 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon gelatin. % tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. % teaspoon vanilla. 

l^ cup milk. % cup whipped cream. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Soak gelatin in cold water 5 minutes. Heat the milk and 
pour into the beaten yolk of egg and add this mixture to gela- 



GELATIN 311 

tin ; stir until gelatin is dissolved and flavor. Set in ice water 
to cool, beating almost constantly. When it begins to stiffen, 
fold in the whipped cream. Pour into molds. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Note. — Chocolate may be added by omitting flavoring and 
add chocolate to hot milk and dissolve before adding to the 
yolk. 

GRAPE riTJFF, 957 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
1/4 box sliredded gelatin or 1 cup Welch's grape juice. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. Juice 1 lemon. 
% cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 
% cup sugar. 

Soften the gelatin in cold water and dissolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice, 
and strain the gelatin into it. Set in ice and water, and 
stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
add gradually the well-beaten whites of eggs, and beat until 
the whole is very light and stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Pile lightly in glass serving-dish, or mold and serve with 
WTiipped Cream or Soft Custard. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE, 350 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
Yg cup boiling water. Whites 2 eggs. 

l^ cup sugar. 

Blend as for Orange Gelatin and set the bowl into chopped 
ice or ice-water to cool; stir occasionally. When jelly is 
quite thick, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Mix 
well and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice to harden. 
When firm, remove by dipping mold quickly in warm water; 
loosen with knife, allowing air to enter. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. 1. 

Note. — Line molds with lady fingers or slices of sponge 
cake and pour in the- charlotte. 



213 ANIMAL FOODS 

STRAWBERRY MOTJSSf , 2284 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% box shredded gelatin or 1 pint thick cream. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. % cup powdered sugar. 
Vi Clip cold water. 1 cup strawberry juice. 

Vi cup boiling water. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water; add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Whip the cream until stiff, and add the pow- 
dered sugar. To the gelatin add the strawberry juice, fold 
the cream in carefully, turn into a wet mold and pack in 
salt and ice for two hours. When ready to serve, turn out of 
mold onto a large glass dish and garnish with fresh straw- 
berries and whipped cream. 

THE MASE-IN-A-HIITUTE DESSERT, 395 CALORIES 

Dissolve one package of Jell-0, any flavor, in a pint of 
boiling water. Pour into a bowl or mold and put in a 
cold place to harden. When set turn out on a plate and 
serve. 

JELL-0 WITH FRUIT, 395 CALORIES i 

Dissolve a package of Jell-0, any flavor, in a pint of boil- 
ing water. Pour into a bowl or mold. Just as Jell-0 is 
beginning to set, arrange in it, with the aid of a fork, sliced 
oranges or bananas, or cherries and currants, or peaches and 
strawberries, or any other fruit that may be preferred for the 
purpose. Set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

BEEF PREPARATIONS 

BEEF JUICE — BEEP TEA — RAW BEEF 
BEEF JUICE 

Composition. The juice of meat contains considerable pro- 
tein, in addition ,to salts and extractives. 

General Principles in Cooking. Prom raw meat we can- 
not obtain as much juice as is easily taken from the same 
amount of meat when previously heated. 

1 Calculated without fruit. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 213 

The reason for this is that the envelope enclosing the 
muscular tissue is a tough substance, which swells and dis- 
solves when heated, yielding gelatin, and the liquid portion 
of the meat is easily expressed. If cooked too long the pro- 
tein largely coagulates and the meat loses most of its moisture 
and becomes tough. 

A steak thoroughly heated through swells, and when cut 
the liquid portion flows out readily. One pound of meat 
yields about four ounces of juice. 

Care in Serving. In administering beef juice great care 
should be taken in reheating not to heat it above 136 degrees' 
Fahrenheit, at which temperature albumin coagulates in 
flakes. 

Substitutes for Beef Juice. A solution of white of egg 
flavored with meat extract makes a cheap and efficient sub- 
stitute for beef juice. 

Prepared extracts' of good make may be used to advantage 
with beef juice to add flavor and make it more appetizing. 

Absorption. Beef juice is absorbed in the rectum to nearly 
the same extent as complete peptones and is an excellent 
article of diet where solid foods cannot be given. 

Comparative Food Value of Beef Juice and Beef Tea. 
Beef juice, although fourteen times as rich in protein as 
beef tea, is raw in flavor, and is rejected by many palates. 
In such a case, add a small quantity of beef tea or prepared 
beef extract for flavor. 

Thus by the union of two bodies, one rich in protein and 
the other rich in flavor, we have a superior food. Prepare 
a small quantity at a time, as it does not keep well. 

BEEF TEA 

Composition. Meat treated with hot water contains only 
a small percentage of solids and almost no protein except 
extractive matter and soluble mineral matter. The clear 
liquid which remains when the coagulated albumin is strained 
out of beef tea contains only extractive or flavoring sub- 
stances with the soluble mineral matter of the meat. There- 



214 ANIMAL FOODS 

fore it should not be strained, and if properly prepared the 
albumin will not be coagulated, to so great an extent. 

Even in strong beef tea which is carefully made the amount 
of proteids present has been found to be less than 3 per cent. 

Nutritive Value. Beef tea is valuable in the sick room not 
as a food, but as a flavoring; the liquid with the heat of the 
water acts as a stimulant. 

Beef Extracts are prepared in both liquid and solid form. 
They have but slight nutritive value, containing but 4 to 5 
per cent, of protein, but are valuable for their flavoring prop- 
erties. They are used to advantage in combination with beef 
juice, adding flavoring and making it more palatable and 
appetizing. 

RAW BEEF 

Uncooked Meat. Kaw meat is not quite as easily digested 
as cooked meat, and owing to color and flavor is not appetiz- 
ing, and could not be taken continuously. However, when 
chopped fine, or scraped free from connective tissue, it is 
very readily digested and can be served disguised or very 
slightly cooked in many dainty ways. 

Comparative Food Value of Raw Beef and Beef Tea. It 
can readily be seen that raw meat served chopped fine or 
scraped contains all the nutriment of the meat, whereas beef 
tea as seen from the manner of preparation, contains only the 
extractives and soluble mineral matter of meat. 

BEEF JTTICE 
100 grams (3% oz.) =25 Calories. 
Select a piece of meat from the rump or top of the round. 
Eemove all fat and broil or warm slightly one or two min- 
utes, to set free the juices; lay on plate and cut meat in 
various directions that more juice may be extracted; then 
squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer or 
potato ricer into a slightly warmed cup. Salt if necessary, 
and serve at once. Prepare only enough to serve, as it does 
not keep well. Serve in dainty china cup to disguise color. 
One pound of meat yields four ounces of juice. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 215 

BEEF JUICE (FOB INFANTS), 20 CAIOBIES 

This food is very useful in forms of diarrhcea and dysen- 
tery. A half pound of chopped lean meat is made into an 
oval, flat mass, placed on a broiler and slightly browned. 
The juice is then expressed with a small meat press, mixed 
with equal parts of barley water and salted to suit the taste. — 
Koplik. 

BEEF ESSENCE 
100 grams (3% oz.) =23 Calories. 

Put one-half pound round steak (freed from fat, etc.) 
through a meat chopper; put into small- glass fruit jar with 
one tablespoon cold water. Place jar in a kettle of cold 
water, heat gradually and keep at temperature 150 degrees 
Pahrenheit (which is 62 degrees below the boiling point of 
water) for two hours. Strain and press the meat to obtain 
all the juice. Season with salt. Serve in slightly heated 
dainty china cup to disguise color. 

Note. — A small piece of raw beef, broiled slightly, then 
cut up and added to above, gives a better flavor. 

Liquid thus obtained should be red with albuminous juice 
in solution and not coagulated; it is nutritious, and may be 
kept in refrigerator twelve hours. Serve in small quantity 
slightly heated; or it may be made into beef tea by diluting 
with boiling water. Beef essence given ice cold is often 
grateful to a fever patient. 

IIQUII) FEFTONOISS, 28 CAIOBIES 
Add one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids to one-half 
cup of boiling water; add pinch of salt. Sip slowly. This 
will be found particularly grateful in painful affections of 
the throat. 

Note. — To serve cold, pour one tablespoonful Liquid Pep- 
tonoids over a small glass of finely cracked ice. Allow it to 
chill thoroughly and sip slowly. 

BEEF TEA 
% pound steak. Salt. 

1 cup cold water. 



216 ANIMAL FOODS 

Wipe steak, remove all fat and cut in small pieces. Put 
in glass fruit jar, add the cold water and let it stand fifteen 
minutes to draw out the juice. Cover jar, using rubber band 
and cover, place on trivet in a kettle and surround with cold 
water. Allow water to heat slowly to 150° F. (no higher), 
and keep at this temperature two hours. Strain and season 
with salt. Remove fat with soft paper or bread. Reheat 
over hot water to 130° F. and serve in heated cups. 

Note. — If possible cool beef tea before serving that fat may 
be removed more thoroughly. 

BEEF TEA FROZEN 

Beef tea may be frozen to the consistency of a water ice. 
yery grateful to a fever 'patient. 

BEEF TEA WITH HYDROCHIOBIC ACID 
100 grams (SVi oz.) =25 Calories.i 
Select one-half pound of good beef ; remove everything that 
13 not clear meat. Chop it fine. Put in pint fruit jar and 
add one cup cold water and five drops dilute hydrochloric acid. 
Stir and set in refrigerator or any cold place for two hours 
to digest. Then strain, season with salt and serve in some 
dainty china cup on account of color. If one should object 
to color, heat the tea in a double boiler just till color changes. 
Do not strain. Beef tea made in this way is recommended 
by physicians for feeble children and patients much weakened 
by sickness. 

ICES FANOPEFTON, 30 CALORIES 

To a small glass half-full of clean crushed ice add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton ; let it stand a moment and then 
sip slowly. 

FANOFEPTON — HOT, 36 CALORIES 

To a small teacup -two-thirds full of boiling water, add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton, and one teaspoonful of fresh 
lemon juice — a little sugar, if desired — stir. Drink im- 

1 Calculated as beef juice. 



BROTH AND MEAT JELLIES 317 

mediately, sipping slowly. This gives a pleasant sense of 
warmth when one is chilly, and is excellent in cases where 
light nourishment is required before retiring. 

SCRAPES BEEF 
100 grams = 142 Calories. 
Wipe a small piece of steak, cut from top of round. Lay 
it on a meat board, and with a sharp knife scrape off the soft 
part until there is nothing left but the tough, stringy fibers. 
Make it into little flat, round cakes half an inch thick and 
broil them two minutes. Season with salt and pepper if 
allowed. Serve on rounds of buttered toast. Do not add 
salt before cooking, as it toughens the meat. 

RAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

1 ounce scraped beef =40 Calories. 

1 ounce bread ( 1 slice) =73 Calories. 

Prepare meat as for scraped beef, season and spread on 

bread cut very thin. Put slices on top, sandwich-fashion, 

and cut in fancy shapes. Serve in this manner or toast 
daintily. 

BEOTH AND MEAT JELLIES 

Broth is a liquid containing the juices of soluble parts of 
meat and bone, which have been extracted by long, slow cook- 
ing. 

This liquid is more or less solid when cold, according to the 
gelatinous nature of the ingredients. It varies greatly in 
quantity, according to the manner in which it is prepared 
and the material used. The cheaper, inferior parts of meat 
yield more nutriment than the- expensive cuts. 

Composition. Broth contains almost no protein except ex- 
tractive matter with soluble mineral matter and gelatin. 

Objective Point and General Principles in Cooking. The 
chief object in making broth is to obtain the largest possible 
amount of nutriment from the meat. This is best accom- 
plished by observing the f ollowiog rules : 



218 ANIMAL FOODS 

Cut meat into small pieces. 

Soak in the cold water before heating. 

Use a careful selection and proportion of meat, bone and 
water. (The usual proportion is one pint of water to one 
pound of meat.) 

Season judiciously. 

Use steam-tight kettle; simmer (not boil), that the juice 
may be fully extracted. 

Make it the day before using, that the fat may be removed 
more easily. 

Long, slow cooking. 

Broth may be made from beef, mutton or chicken. Eice, 
barley, Dry Peptonoids Soluble, white or whole egg, etc., may 
be added, if allowed, to increase the quantity of nourishment. 

Comparative Value of Broth and Beef Tea. Broth differs 
from beef tea in that it contains gelatin, besides the extrac- 
tives or flavoring substances and soluble mineral matter that 
are found in beef tea. Gelatin is obtained from meat and 
bones by long, slow cooking, and it is useful in convalescence 
and in febrile states. (Note " Gelatin," p. 203.) 

Meat Jellies are a condensed form of broth, which forms an 
agreeable way of serving protein food to an invalid, and are 
especially valuable in febrile states. Although they do not 
entirely replace protein in the diet, they produce a consid- 
erable quantity of energy. (Note " Gelatin," p. 303, for 
nutritive value.) 

ENERGY VALUE OF BROTH 

Very few analyses of broths are available ; hence no attempt 
has been made to state the calories under each recipe. The 
following table gives an approximate idea of their energy 
value : 

Beef broth 100 grams yield 44 Calories. 

Beef juice 100 grams yield 25 Calories. 

Clam bouillon 100 grams yield 2 Calories. 

Consomme 100 grams yield 12 Calories. 



BROTH 219 

Pood that may be added for extia nutriment 
1 whole egg (average) .... 45 grams yield 60 Calories. 
White of 1 egg (average) . 25 grams yield 13 Calories. 
Yolk of 1 egg (average) .. 13 grams yield 48 Calories. 
1 tablespoon Dry Peptonoids Soluble yield 57 Calories. 

1 tablespoon rice 15 grams yield 50 Calories. 

1 tablespoon barley 27 grams yield 90 Calories. 

MUTTON BROTH 
2 pounds mutton, cut from fore- Speck pepper. 

quarters. 2 tablespoons boiled rice or bar- 

1 quart cold water. ley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Wipe meat, remove skin and fat and cut into small pieces. 
Put in a kettle with bones that have been well broken, add 
cold water and let it stand one-half hour to extract the juices. 
Heat gradually to boiling point, skim, and when partly cooked 
season with salt and pepper. Simmer four hours, or until 
meat is tender. Do not allow it to boil. Eemove fat and 
strain through a coarse sieve. Serve hot. If broth is made 
the day before it is used, it can be cooled thoroughly and 
the fat be removed easily. In reheating use double boiler. 
Two tablespoons of cooked rice or barley may be added if 
desired. The barley should be soaked over night or several 
hours before cooking. Taste and season before serving, a tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley may be added just before serving 
if desired. 

Xote. — For weaker broth, use one quart of water to one 
pound of meat. 

BEES' BBOTH 

Prepared same as Mutton Broth. 

BROTH WITH GRAINS 
1 quart hot broth. 1 tablespoon rice or barley. 

To the hot broth add the well-washed rice. Simmer slowly 
until the rice is tender, adding more broth if it evaporates. 
The broth should be strained before using. 



220 ANIMAL FOODS 

CHICKEN BSOTH 

31/2 pounds chicken. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 pints cold water. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons rice. 

Thoroughly clean a chicken (see " Poultry," p. 153), re- 
move skin and fat; separate at the joints and wipe with a 
wet cloth. Put in kettle and add the cold water and let 
stand one-half hour. Heat very slowly and simmer three 
hours, or until meat is tender. When half-cooked skim off 
fat and add the rice and seasonings (and if desired, a small 
onion). When meat is tender, skim off fat and strain, taste 
and season properly and serve hot. When possible, make 
broth the day before using, that it may be thoroughly cooled 
and the fat removed easily. Eeheat in a double boiler. The 
rice may be cooked, and rubbed through strainer before add- 
ing to broth, or it may be omitted if desired. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broth. 

VEAL BROTH 

Prepared same as Chicken Broth (use cut from loin or 
knuckle of veal). 

CLAM BKOIH NO. I 

Take five clams, wash and scrub well and put in saucepan 
with cold water to cover. Cook until shells open, remove 
from pan and take out clams. Chop and put them back into 
broth. Cook fifteen minutes. Strain through muslin; serve 
hot. If too strong flavor, add hot water. 

Note. — If made in large quantity, use two or three clams 
to one cup water. 

This broth may be frozen to the consistency of a frappe. 

CLAM BROTH NO. II 
% cup clam broth. Pepper. 

1 cup water or milk. 14 teaspoon butter. 

Blend the clam broth and water (or milk), and heat to the 
boiling point. Season with salt to taste, and if allowed, a 
little pepper and the butter. Serve hot in dainty cups. 



MEAT JELLIES 221 

EOG BROTH 

If one cannot conveniently get protein from meat, a very 
nutritious broth may be made by means of hot water into 
which an egg has been stirred. Heat three tablespoons of 
water to not above 149 degrees Fahrenheit (below the sim- 
mering point), and pour it gradually into a raw egg. The 
liquid is milky if the yolk is used ; clear if only the white is 
used. It has little taste, which is an advantage with many 
patients ; or it may be flavored with beef extract. 

EGO BROTH SO. II 
1 cup hot beef broth. % teaspoon salt. 

1 egg- 
Beat the white and yolk of egg separately. To the yolk 
add gradually the hot broth, stirring continually. Add the 
salt and fold in the well-beaten white. Eeheat in double 
boiler, taking care not to coagulate the albumin. Serve very 
hot. 

Note. — The white or yolk of egg may be used separately. 

MEAT JELLIES 

CAIF'S FOOT JELLY 
100 grams = 65 Calories. 

1 calf's foot. Rind of V4 lemon (yellow part 

1 quart cold water. only ) . 

3 cups sherry wine (best Topaz). % cup cut or cube sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 

Clean calf's foot and put into the cold water ; bring slowly 
to boiling point, and boil five hours ; skim if necessary, while 
cooking. Strain through cheese-cloth and allow it to stand 
until firm and remove the fat. 

Mix lemon juice, wine, the whites and shells of eggs, sugar, 
and beat all together until the sugar is dissolved, then add to 
tlie jelly. Place on the fire in an enamel stewpan, and stir 
constantly until the mixture is very hot, but not boiling; 
strain through a jelly bag, made of cotton flannel, and allow 



222 ANIMAL FOODS 

the jelly to drip through same slowly, pour into molds or 
glass jars, and put in cold place to harden. 

Note. — Several varieties may be made by substituting the 
different flavors, brandy, rum, port wine, champagne, orange 
and lemon juice. 

CHICKEN JELLY 
3 pounds cliicken. 8 peppercorns. 

1 quart cold water. Salt. 

Prepare chicken as for chicken broth and cut flesh and 
■ bone into small pieces. Put into saucepan with cold water 
and peppercorns and let stand one-half hour. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point, remove scum and cook five or six hours 
or until meat is very tender and water is reduced to one pint, 
■while cooking keep it below the boiling point. Skim fre- 
quently while cooking, strain through double thickness of 
cheese-cloth, season to taste and let stand until firm. Ee- 
move fat, reheat and turn into glass fruit jars or individual 
molds and cool ; put in ice box until jellied. 

Additional flavor may be added if desired, a stalk of celery 
or a small piece of bay leaf may be cooked with the chicken. 

Note. — Mutton Broth Jelly may be treated in the same 
way. 

BEEF JELLY 
3 pounds solid meat from the 4 quarts cold water. 

shoulder or shin. 2 teaspoons salt. 

3 pounds bone from same. 

Take off the dried skin and any soft or bloody portion. 
Cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cracked 
bone into an earthen jar. Cover with the cold water. Set 
in slow oven and cook from eight to twelve hours. Strain 
through a colander. Add salt to taste; cool quickly. When 
cold remove the fat. Serve cold as a jelly, or reheat in 
double boiler. 



SOUP 22,3 

SOUP AND SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Soup is a light and suitable form of food for the sick. 
There are two classes — those made with meat and those 
without meat. 

The soups with meat .are an infusion of meat, flavored with 
salt and some condiment. They are treated in the chapter 
on broths. 

The foundations of soups without meat are milk, vegetables 
and water. They are dainty and nutritious, and an excellent 
way of serving milk and the starch and mineral matter of the 
vegetable. 

They may be served as a luncheon, with crisp crackers, or as 
the first course of a dinner. Serve daintily in heated bouillon 
cups, partly filled, on small plate and doily. 

General Rule for Mending: 

{a) Prepare vegetables, cook and strain. 

(&) Prepare cream sauce: Melt butter, add the flour and 
gradually pour on the scalded milk or water. Cook thor- 
oughly. 

(c) Blend (a) and (&). Season, strain and serve imme- 
diately. 

In the preparation of these soups great care must be taken 
that the starch of the vegetable and of the flour used in the 
thickening is thoroughly cooked. Cooking temperature of 
starch is 312 degrees Fahrenheit. 

CKEAU OF ASFARA6TJS SOUP, 313 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% bundle asparagus. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt. 

% tablespoon butter. Pepper. 

(a) Wash the asparagus and cook in boiling salted water, 
boiling gently thirty minutes. Take from the water, cut ofc 
the tips and put them into the serving dish; press the re- 
mainder through a colander. 

(6) Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and 



224 ANIMAL FOODS 

pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stir- 
ring often. 

Blend (a) and (&) ; reheat, season to taste, strain over tips 
and serve at once with crisped wafer crackers. 

Note. — For individual quantity use one-half recipe. 

ASPARAGTTS SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 30 CAIORIES 

One-half pint of veal stock or water, boiled with five or six 
stalks of asparagus. Eeserve tips; mash and strain. Melt 
together one-half teaspoonful of butter with one-half teaspoon- 
f ul of Gum Gluten Flour. Add stock and asparagus tips, and 
serve at once. 

CREAU OF CORN SOUP, 493 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% eup corn. 1 cup milk. 

% cup cold water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

14 slice onion. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Salt. Yolk 1 egg. 
Pepper. 

(a) Chop corn, add water and simmer tvrenty minutes; 
rub through a sieve. 

(6) Scald milk with onion; remove onion. Melt butter, 
add flour and gradually pour on milk. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; cook thoroughly, season to taste with 
salt and pepper and pour onto the beaten yolk. When well 
blended, serve hot. 

Note. — The yolk of egg may be omitted. 

CREAH OF CELERT SOTTP, 320 CAIORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

4 stalks celery. 1 tablespoon butter. 

14 cup boiling water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Salt. 1 cup rich milk. 
Pepper. 

(a) Wash and scrape the celery and cut into small pieces, 
add the water and cook until very tend^er and soft. Eenew 
the water if it boils away. Mash the celery in the water in 
which it was cooked. 



SOUP 325 

(6) Scald milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly, 
stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; season to taste; strain and serve im- 
mediately with croutons or crisped crackers. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOTTP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 226 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
6 stalks celery. Speck cayenne pepper, salt. 

1 slice onion. % teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water. % teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 cup hot milk. 

Boil, mash and strain the first three ingredients, add the 
hot milk or cream. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot soup stock ; season and cook thoroughly. 

CREAM OF PEA SOTJF, 215 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
14 can peas. 14 cup milk. 

Y2 teaspoon sugar. % tablespoon butter. 

14 cup cold vifater. % tablespoon flour. 

Salt and pepper. 

(a) Drain peas from their liquor, rinse thoroughly, add 
sugar and cold water and simmer twenty minutes. Eub 
through a sieve; reheat. 

(6) Scald milk. Melt butter, add flour and pour on grad- 
ually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stirring carefully. 
Note. — Peas that are too old to serve as a vegetable may 
be used for soup. One-half slice onion may be cooked in the 
milk. 

CREAM 07 ONION SOUP, 297 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 onion; % tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

Cut onion in small pieces and scald in milk. Melt butter, 
add flour and add gradually the milk mixture. Season with 
salt and pepper and strain. 



226 ANIMAL FOODS 

ONION SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 30 CALORIES 

One Bermuda or three green onions boiled until tender in 
stock or water ; mash and strain. Add one-half teaspoon Gum 
Gluten Flour, one-half teaspoonful butter and a little chopped 
parsley. One tablespoon of cream, if desired. 

CREAU 07 FOIATO S0TT7, 220 CALORIES 
(Individual Eule.) 
% cup milk. Vi tablespoon flour 

l^ slice onion. % teaspoon salt. 

% cup mashed potatoes. Pepper. 

y^ tablespoon butter. 

(a) Scald milk with onion in it, remove onion and add milk 
slowly to potatoes. (6) Melt butter, add flour and pour on 
gradually the hot mixture. Cook thoroughly and season to 
taste. A little celery salt may be added if desired. A little 
finely-chopped parsley may be sprinkled over top of soup. 

CREAU OF RICE SOTTF, 302 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 tablespoon rice. Stalk celery. 

1 cup milk. % bay leaf. 

% tablespoon butter. Salt. 

% small onion. Pepper. 

Scald the milk, add the well-washed rice and cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes, covered closely. 

Melt butter in saut6 pan, add the sliced onion and cook till 
tender, but not brown. Add celery sliced, and turn into 
scalded milk; add the bay leaf, cover and let stand on back 
of stove fifteen minutes. Strain, season with salt and pepper, 
reheat and serve. 

Note. — If soup is too thick, add a little heated milk. 

TOMATO SOTTF (WIlTH BROTH), 110 CALORIES 

(Individual Eule.) 
% cup strained tomatoes. 1 cup water or stock. 

% tablespoon butter. % teaspoon salt. 

% slice onion. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon flour. 



SOUP 327 

(a) Cook and strain tomatoes, obtaining one-lialf cup 
juice. 

(b) Melt butter, add the onion and brown slightly; add 
the flour ; pour on gradually the boiling water or stock. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; cook thoroughly, season with salt and 
pepper, strain and serve. 

Note. — Two tablespoons of cream may be added. 

Beef or mutton broth strained may be used in place of 
water if desired. 

CREAM OP TOMATO SOTTP (FOB, THE DIABETIC), 224 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup tomatoes. % teaspoon butter. 

1 slice onion. % teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt, pepper. 

Stew and strain the tomatoes and onion, reheat and add 
a tiny pinch of soda. When effervescing subsides add milk. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and pour in gradually the hot 
stock. Season and cook thoroughly. 

MOCK BISQUE SOtJF, 324 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup tomatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% saltspoon soda. % tablespoons flour or corn- 

Salt and pepper. starch. 

1 cup milk. 

(a) Steam tomatoes until soft enough to strain juice; 
strain, add soda and allow gases to pass off. This prevents 
the acid of the tomato curdling the milk. 

(&) Scald milk; melt butter in quart size saucepan, add the 
flour and pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thor- 
oughly, stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (&) ; reheat, season to taste, strain and 
serve immediately with croiitons or crackers. 

DRIES FBXTIT SOUP, 209 CALORIES i 
14 cup dried apricots. 1 cup cold water. 

ii cup prunes. Sugar to taste. 

1 Without sugar. 



228 ANIMAL FOODS 

Pick over and wash fruit until perfectly clean. Cook in 
the water until very soft. Strain and squeeze out all the 
juice; sweeten to taste. Thicken if liked. 

Thickening. — 1 slightly rounding teaspoon rice flour to 
1 cup liquid. CoOk twenty minutes to remove raw taste of 
starch. 

PANOPEPTON BOUILLON — HOT, 30 CALORIES 

Put one tablespoonful of Panopepton into a small teacup; 
fill the cup nearly full of boiling water, and flavor to taste 
with celery salt, or plain salt and pepper ; stir, and sip slowly.. 
This is a very nourishing and pleasantly stimulating drink. 

VICTORIA SOUP (WITH BROTH), 619 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup lean chicken meat. 1 cup rich milk. 

1 cup strong chicken broth. % cup cracker crumbs. 

% teaspoon salt. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Pepper. 

Soak the crumbs in a little of the milk. Cook yolks of 
eggs in hot water until hard. Chop the chicken, mix with the 
soaked cracker crumbs, press the hard-cooked yolks through 
a coarse strainer, add the seasonings and the broth and cook 
all together five minutes over direct heat or one-half hour in 
double boiler. Serve hot. 

CONSOUME 

Make a beef or any broth according to the strength re- 
quired. While cooking skim frequently, and when reduced 
to one-third of its quantity take from saucepan and strain; 
season well, cool quickly and remove fat. Eeturn to sauce- 
pan, add a few thin slices of onion and one-half pound of 
lean beef chopped fine and dear. 

To Clear Soup. To each quart of stock add the slightly 
beaten white and broken shell of one egg and a few shavings 
of lemon rind. Place on front of range, and stir constantly 
until boiling point is reached; boil two minutes. Set back 
where it may simmer twenty minutes ; remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 229 

N"ote. — To increase the nutrient value and improve flavor. 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be added to any stock. Its com- 
plete solubility and concentration have caused it to be recom- 
mended most highly for this purpose. 

OYSTER SOUP 

See chapter " Oysters " for recipe. Pages 171-173. 

OYSTEK STEW 
See " Oysters " for recipe. Page 172. 

CIAM SOUP 

See chapter " Clams " for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAM BOUILLON 

See chapter " Clams " for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAM BOUILLON BISQUE 

See chapter " Clams " for recipe. Page 175. 

MEAT SOUPS 
Foundation for same, see chapter " Broths." Page 219. 

SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 

GLUTEN BISCUIT CRISPS 
1^25 Calories. 
Serve plain or butter slightly and bake until heated through. 

CRISPED CRACKERS 
1 Sal tine =; 15 Calories. 
Split common crackers or use saltines. Put in pan and 
bake until thoroughly heated. Serve plain or buttered 
slightly. 

TOASTED CRACKERS 

Butter crackers, put in pan and bake until a delicate brown. 
Serve on small plate with doily. 



230 ANIMAL FOODS 

CROUTONS 
1 ounce (1 slice) bread = 73 Calories. 

Take a slice of stale bread about half an inch thick, cut 
into half -inch cubes ; put them in a shallow pan and dry thor- 
oughly, then brown delicately. Stir often to brown evenly. 
Serve on small plate with doily. A little butter may be 
spread on the bread if desired. 

EDUCATOR CRACKERS 

Serve plain or butter slightly and bake until well heated. 

NOODLES POR SOTJF (FOR THE SIASETIC), 596 CALORIES . 

1 egg. 5 ounces Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat the egg very light, add the milk and Gum Gluten. 
Eoll very thin and cut in straws. Cook in any soup. 

GLUTEN CRISP (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

See chapter " Toast " for recipe. Page 256 



CHAPTER X 
VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

The important food products derived from the vegetable 
kingdom are the Cereals, Legumes — Eoots and Tubers — 
Green Vegetables — Fruits — Nuts — Fungi — Lichens. 

Composition. Vegetable or plant foods contain the five 
proximate principles, namely, proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
water and mineral matter. In this they resemble animal 
foods. The food principles in the two classes are,, however, 
in different proportions, animal foods being rich in proteins 
or fats, and seldom containing carbohydrate in appreciable 
amounts; while vegetable foods are, as a rule, rich in carbo- 
hydrates, and poor in, proteins and fats. 

These differences are clearly shown in the following table: 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 
% % % 
Lean round of beef. Free from all vis- 
ible fat 23.2 2.5 

L«an round of beef. Very fat 16.1 23.1 .... 

Wheat flour (entire wheat) 13.8 1.9 71.9 

Potatoes 1.8 0.1 14.7 

Apples 1.6 2.2 66.1 

The legumes and most nuts are exceptional in containing 
high percentages of protein or fat or both, but unlike meats, 
they also contain a very considerable amount of carbohydrate, 
as shown by the following analyses : 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 

% % % 

Beans, dried 22.5 1.8 59.6 

Peas 24.6 1.0 62.0 

Almonds 21.0 54.9 17.3 

Walnuts 16.6 63.4 16.1 

331 



233 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Protein.^ (1) Gluten of wheat and some of the other 
cereals. 

(3) Legumin found in legumes. 

(3) Vegetable albumin as found in some vegetables. 

Carbohydrates of Vegetables ^ include — starch, sugar, veg- 
etable gums and cellulose. 

Fats of Vegetables '" are in the form of oils and are similar 
in composition to animal fats, but are more easily digested 
and equal in nutritive value. 

Water. Dry vegetable foods, such as cereals, dried beans 
and peas, nuts, dried fruits, etc., do not, as a rule, contain 
as much water as animal foods, but fresh vegetables and fruits 
contain frequently from 90 per cent, to 95 per cent, of water. 

This gives them a low nutritive value compared with their 
bulk. In cooking, water is added to most dry vegetable foods, 
so that when served they resemble fresh or succulent vegetable 
foods in this respect. 

'Mineral Matter.* All vegetable foods contain valuable ash 
constituents. In cereals, these are largely in the outer part 
of the grain, and are lost if the entire grain is not utilized. 
Thus polished rice is much poorer in ash constituents than 
nnpolished; and white flour than entire wheat flour. Fresh 
vegetables and fruits are desirable in the dietary for their 
salts and organic acids. 

Digestibility. Vegetable foods are less easily digested than 
animal foods, owing to their complex composition, and espe- 
cially to the intimate mixture of the nutrients with cellulose. 
This prevents the digestive fermtats acting readily upon the 
food-stuffs so that they are digested more slowly and less com- 
pletely than animal foods. Although cellulose is indigestible, 
its presence under normal conditions in proper amounts, is 
advantageous,^ but it should be thoroughly softened by cook- 
ing, except in the case of tender young vegetables such as 
lettuce. 

^ Protein, see p. 10. 

^ Carbohydrates, see p. 16. 

3 Fats of vegetables, see p. 20. 

^Mineral matter, see p. 31. 

' See p. 17. 



CEREALS 333 

Comparative Value of Animal and Vegetable Diets. An 
animal diet is concentrated and easily digested. If the ani- 
mal foods taken are eggs and milk, no serious objection can 
be urged against them, except that they lack bulk. The food 
is so fully absorbed that the large intestine has no stimulus 
to action and no material for its muscles to act upon, and 
serious complications are likely to arise from constipation. 
If the animal food is largely meat, it is undesirable, not only 
for the reason above mentioned, but because excessive quan- 
tities of nitrogenous extractives are taken, which are likely 
to cause uric acid disorders and other disturbances, and also 
because important mineral salts are lacking (such as calcium, 
■which carnivorous animals get by eating hone) ; and because 
the acids formed from the protein (phosphoric and sulphuric) 
tend to deprive the body of salts already present in the tissues. 

A strict vegetable diet, on the other hand, while free from 
these objections, is necessarily very bulky, owing to the high 
percentages of water and cellulose, and to the fact that extra 
allowance must be made because it is less perfectly absorbed. 
Unless special care is taken, a vegetable diet is also likely to 
be low in protein. Legumes and nuts must form a consid- 
erable part of the dietary to provide this. When eggs, milk 
and milk products are added to the vegetable foods, the diet 
becomes mixed, and these objections no longer hold. 

An Ideal Diet contains a mixture of animal and vegetable 
foods, so that protein, fat, carbohydrate and mineral matter 
are supplied in proper proportions and in available forms, and 
sufficient bulk is afforded for proper intestinal action. 

CEREALS 

GEUEi:S — BREAKFAST FOODS — STARCHY JEIIIES — MACA- 
RONI 

Wherever it is possible to grow grains, they are staples of 
man's diet. No food products of the vegetable kingdom equal 
them in importance. They are cheaply and easily grown, and 
contain all the food principles in unusually good proportion. 



334 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

They can be kept for long periods, are not difficult to cook, 
and furnish a palatable and digestible article of diet. Cereals 
alone supply nearly one-fourth of the total food in a large 
number of the American families. Wheat, corn, rye, oats, 
barley, rice and buckwheat are in commonest use. 

The natural grain is surrounded by an indigestible husk 
■which is always removed. Grains simply hulled or husked, 
and- slightly crushed are called groats or grits ; more finely 
crushed, they constitute meal ; ground to a powder and sifted 
they form flour. 

Composition. Cereals contain all the food principles, with 
considerable cellulose, especially in the outer skin, which forms 
bran in milling. They are comparatively dry materials, hav- 
ing an average water content of about 10 per cent. The pro- 
tein content is fairly high, averaging 12 per cent.-13 per cent.^ 
The fat is never large in amount, and varies within wide 
limits, being greatest in corn and oats and their products, and 
lowest in rice. 

The nutrients in largest proportion are the carbohydrates, 
which frequently constitute 75 per cent, of the whole. The 
ash content is as large as in most common food materials, and 
some of the grains, as oats and wheat, are especially valuable 
for their soluble phosphates of calcium, potassium, magne- 
sium, etc. 

The chemical composition of some of the most common 
cereals is shown in the following table : 

Carbohydrates 

Water Protein Fat Starch, etc. Crude Fiber Ash 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. 

Barley 10.9 12.4 1.8 69.8 2.7 2.4 

Corn (maize) ... 9.3 9.9 2.8 74.9 1.4 1.5 

Cats 11.0 11.8 5.0 59.7 9.5 3.0 

Eice 12.4 7.4 0.4 79.2 0.2 0.4 

Wheat (spring) ..10.4 12.5 2.2 71.2 1.8 1.9 

It will be seen that corn is relatively rich in fat; oats in 
both protein and fat; rye and wheat in protein with a mod- 
erate amount of fat; rice is notably free from crude fiber 
and fat, and also very low in ash. 

'For further information, see "Cereal Breakfast Foods," Farmer's Bulle- 
tin No. 249, Agricultural Dept., Washington, D. C. 



CEREALS 235 

Cereal Breakfast Foods are very similar in composition to 
the grains from which they are made. 

Macaroni is much like wheat breakfast foods in composition 
and food value. 

Principles in Cooking. Cooking improves cereals in many 
ways. Por the average person, proper cooking has almost as 
much to do with the nutriment finally obtained as the pro- 
portions of nutrients originally present. Flavor and appear- 
ance are improved, with the gain in digestibility that comes 
from appetizing foods which stimulate the flow of digestive 
juices. Cooking to convert nutrients into more digestible 
forms, is very important in the case of cereals which contain 
so much starch; and since the starch in these foods is sur- 
rounded by cell-walls of crude fiber (largely cellulose) upon 
which the digestive juices are unable to act, these walls must 
be broken down. Part of this disintegration may be accom- 
plished in milling, and part by thorough mastication but com- 
plete digestion of the starch is assured only by thorough 
cooking. 

Parching is one of the simplest methods of cooking grains. 
The invisible moisture in the cells is expanded by the heat, 
and the cell walls burst. Some of the starch is also made 
soluble or changed to dextrin by this process. The digestibil- 
ity of protein seems to be lessened by cooking at high tem- 
peratures, but the starch can be made almost perfectly di- 
gestible. 

The softening of cellulose is more perfectly accomplished 
by cooking for a long time in the presence of a large amount 
of moisture, as in steaming, or cooking with water or milk 
in a double boiler. The. glutinous material which surrounds 
the starch grains and prevents their digestion is disintegrated 
so thart the digestive juices can act. In general, the more 
crude fiber a cereal contains, the longer it should be cooked. 
Eeference to the table (p. 234) shows that oats requires 
more cooking than rice; whole or partially crushed grains 
than fiLnely ground ones. There is danger in undercooked 
cereals, not only of loss of valuable nutriment through failure 



236 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

of digestion, but in irritation of the alimentary tract. This 
should be especially remembered in preparing partially cooked 
breakfast foods. 

When cereals are cooked in water some of it is absorbed, 
and soluble substances in the food pass into the remaining 
water. If this is thrown away, as when rice is boiled in a 
large quantity of water and subsequently drained dry, a con- 
siderable part of the nutriment is lost. Kice water frequently 
contains enough dissolved starch to form a jelly on cooling. 
For this reason steaming is a preferable method. Practical 
application of the fact that certain nutrients in cereals are 
soluble is made in the preparation of all kinds of cereal 
waters and starchy jellies. (See Eecipes, pp. 12i-244.) 

Gruels are thin porridges made from flour or other finely 
ground grain products, with either water or milk. They are 
cooked for a long time to insure the starch being changed to 
soluble starch, or even partially dextrinized. Time for cook- 
ing should therefore be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

By passing the material through a cheese-cloth or sieve, the 
coarser, undissolved portions are removed, and the smooth 
product does not irritate weakened digestive organs; hence 
this method is desirable for invalids and young children. 

In cooking all cereal products, the following points should 
be observed: 

Use a double boiler. 

Observe carefully the correct proportions of cereal, water 
and salt. 

Cook at boiling temperature (312° P.). 

Watch the time by the clock, and always cook the full time 
prescribed, preferably longer. 

Serve attractively. 

Improper cooking and poor serving are largely responsible 
for unpopularity of cereal foods. 

Digestibility. The digestibility of cereals is greatly in- 
fluenced by the mode of preparation and the thoroughness of 
insalivation. Por the normal healthy person cereal foods are 
Tery wholesome. In general, about 90 per cent, or more of 



CEREALS 337 

the organic matter is assimilated. The carbohydrates are 
most completely digested ; the protein shows a wide variation, 
but is less perfectly assimilated than the other nutrients, 
owing partly to the fact that it is often hardened in cooking 
and partly that it is intimately bound up with cellulose in 
the bran coats. For this reason white flour shows a higher 
degree of digestibility for protein, than do whole wheat prepa- 
rations. 

Among cereal breakfast foods, rolled wheat ranks first in 
digestibility, rolled oats next, and corn preperations among 
the lowest. The partially digested or ready-to-eat cereals 
supply more digestible material than the plain grains when 
well cooked. 

Nutritive Value. Cereals supply actual digestible nutri- 
ments to the body more cheaply than any other class of foods 
except the dried legumes. All animal foods, especially meats, 
are more expensive, even as sources of protein, than cereals. 
A glance at their composition shows that they are chiefly fuel- 
foods, because of their high carbohydrate content. Their 
cost varies with the cost of labor and fuel in preparing the 
food. The comparatively expensive ready-to-eat breakfast 
foods do not yield any extra nutritive value. Their only ad- 
vantages are pleasant flavor and ease of serving. Cereal 
products yield on the average between 1600 and 1700 calories 
per pound. Thus: 

1 lb. flour furnishes 1665 calories. 

1 lb. entire wheat flour furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. corn meal furnishes 1655 calories. 

1 lb. cornstarch furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. wheatlet furnishes 1685 calories. 

1 lb. hominy furnishes 1650 calories. 

1 lb. granulated corn meal furnishes 1665 calories. 

1 lb. wheat germ furnishes 1695 calories. 

1 lb. tapioca furnishes 1650 calories. 

Care of Cereals. Cereals must be kept in a cool, dry place ; 
warmth will favor the development of the maggot eggs; and 
moisture, when absorbed, makes them musty. 



238 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

GRUELS 

ABROWROOT OSTTEL, 205 CALOBIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
2 teaspoons arrowroot. 1 cup boiling water or milk. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

Sugar, lemon juice, wine or brandy as required. 

Blend the arrowroot and cold water to a smooth paste. 
Add to the boiling water or milk. Cook in double boiler two 
hours. Add salt. Strain and serve hot. 

Arrowroot is the purest form of starch, and beneficial in 
case of diarrhoea if not given too hot. 

BARLEY GRUEL, 248 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. 1 cup scalded milk. 

2 tablespoons cold milk. Salt. 

Blend the barley flour with the cold milk and stir into 
the scalding milk. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 
Season with salt to taste, and add sugar if desired. Strain. 

BABLEY GBUEL OB JELLY, 142 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. % cup milk (if desired). 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Blend carefully the barley flour and the cold water; add 
gradually to the boiling water and cook twenty minutes. Add 
milk and salt to taste, reheat to boiling point, strain and 
serve or bottle for keeping. 

Note. — For jelly omit the milk and strain. 

BICE OR OAT GBUEL 
Eice or oat gruel may be made in same way as Barley 
Gruel No. I or II, using the prepared flour for the purpose. 

BABLEY GBUEL (WITH BBOTE), 308 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 cups beef broth. 2 tablespoons cold water. 
2 tablespoons barley flour. 1 saltspoon salt. 

^Calculated with milk. 



GBUELS 339 

Mix barley flour and salt with the cold water to form a 
smooth paste. Add gradually to the boiling stock and boil 
one-half hour. Strain and serve very hot. 

CRACKER GRUEL, 243 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
2 tablespoons sifted cracker 1 cup scalded milk. 

crumbs. 
^ teaspoon salt. 

Pour hot milk gradually onto cracker crumbs, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook in double boiler five minutes or two minutes 
over direct heat. 

Note. — Before preparing crumbs, crackers may be baked 
in a slow oven until a delicate brown; or graham crackers 
may be used. A convenient way to prepare the crumbs is to 
put them several times through a meat chopper and then sift. 

TLOUR GRUEL OR THICKENED MILK, 212 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup scalded milk. Speck salt. 

14 cup cold milk. 1 dozen raisins. 

% tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with the cold milk to make 
a smooth mixture, and stir into the scalding milk. Cook in 
a double boiler one-half hour or on back of stove in a sauce- 
pan. 

Stone and quarter the raisins, then add water enough to 
cover; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. Add to 
gruel just before serving. Add salt. Strain and serve, or it 
may be eaten with the raisins in it. 

Note. — This gruel may be made without the raisins. 
Never use raisins in bowel troubles. 

FARINA GRUEL, 102 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
14 tablespoon farina. Va cup scalded milk. 

34 cup cold water. Salt. 

y^ cup boiling water. 



340 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Mix the farina ■with the cold water, add to the boiling 
water and boil thirty minutes. Add the scalding milk. 
Taste and season properly. A little sugar may be added if 
desired, or an egg may be beaten and the gruel poured into it. 

GIUTEN GRTJEL OR PORRIDGE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 185 CAL- 
ORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yg tablespoon Gum Gluten Four. 1 cup hot water or milk. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Salt. 

Add cold water slowly to Gluten Flour to form a thin 
paste, then add gradually to boiling water, while stirring con- 
stantly; cook fifteen minutes. Season with salt. Is an ex- 
cellent food for the sick ; for baby food it may be sweetened. 

INDIAN MEAL GRTJEL, 48 CALORIES 2 

1 tablespoon Indian meal. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

% tablespoon flour. 2 cups boiling water. 

14 teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Blend the meal, flour and salt with the cold water to make 
a smooth paste, and stir into the boiling water. Boil gently 
one hour and a half. Dilute with hot water, milk or cream. 
Strain. 

OATUEAL GRVEL NO. I, 70 CALORIES.2 

% cup coarse oatmeal. 1% cup boiling water. 

Yg teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Add oatmeal and salt to the boiling water, and cook four to 
five hours in a double boiler, adding more water if necessary. 
Strain and dilute with hot milk to make it of the right con- 
sistency. Eeheat and serve. 

Note. — Sugar, and a little port wine may be added if al- 
lowed and desired. 

' Calculated vrith. milk. 
'Without milk or cream. 



GRUELS 241 

OATKEAL GRUEL, NO. II, 70 CALOEIES i 

% cup rolled oats. ' 14 teaspoon salt. 

1% cup boiling water. Milk or cream. 

Mix the oats, water and salt in top of double boiler. Cook 
over direct heat five minutes and then over hot water one 
hour. Strain, bring to the boiling point and add milk or 
cream as desired. 

OATSCEAI. GRTTEI NO. Ill, 140 CALORIES 1 

14 cup coarse oatmeal. Salt. 

2 cups water. Milk. 

Pound the oatmeal in a mortar until it is mealy, then put 
it into a tumbler and fill it with cold water. Stir, and pour 
off the mealy water into a saucepan. Pill tumbler again, stir 
and pour off, and repeat until the above quantity of water is 
exhausted. Boil the oatmeal water thirty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Season with salt to taste. Thin with milk or 
cream to desired consistency. 

EGa AND SHERRY GRUEL, 388 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 wineglass sherry. ' Grating of nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 cup smooth, hot gruel. 

Beat the egg; add wine, lemon, nutmeg and pour on the 
hot gruel. 

CAUDLE, 404 CALORIES 2 
y^ cup Scotch oatmeal. Juice % lemon. 

2 quarts water. Sugar, cinnamon, brandy, or 
Salt to taste. wine. 

% cup raisins. 

Boil oatmeal, water and salt four or five hours. Strain; 
if too thick add a little hot water and whip it with a wooden 
spoon. Eemove seeds from raisins, cook a short time in hot 
water, and add raisins and water to above. Add lemon juice, 
and sugar, cinnamon, brandy or wine to taste. 

1 Without milk or cream. 
' Witliottt sugar or liquor. 



242 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

JIOTJR BAIL OR BOILED OB, BROWNED FIOTTR GRUEL (FOR 
TEETHIKG CHILDREN) 

Tie one cup of wheat flour in a thick cloth, and boil it in 
one quart of water for three hours ; remove the cloth and ex- 
pose the flour to the air, or heat until it is hard. Grate from 
it when wanted. Put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
new milk, and stir over the fire until it comes to a boil; add 
a pinch of salt and a tablespoon of cold water, and serve. 
This gruel is excellent for children afilicted with summer com- 
plaint. Or brown a tablespoon of flour in the oven, or on 
top of the stove in a baking tin ; feed a few pinches at a time 
to a child, and it will often check diarrhoea. 

BREAKFAST FOODS 

Fruits served with breakfast foods make them more ap- 
petizing. 

Follow directions on package for preparing patent or pre- 
pared cereals, allowing double the given time for cooking. 

HASTY PUDDING OR CORNMEAL MUSH, 182 CALORIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
% Clip cornmeal. ^ cup cold milk or water. 

% tablespoon flour. % cup boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Mix the meal, flour and salt with the cold milk or water ; 
when smooth, stir into the boiling water. Cook in a double 
boiler one hour or more; or over direct heat one-half hour. 
Serve with cream and sugar, turn into tins to cool if wanted 
for sauteing. Cut into slices, dip in flour and saute in drip- 
pings or butter. 

GLUTEN BREAKFAST FOOD (FOR THE DIABETIC), 665 CAL- 
ORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
Yg cup Gum Gluten Breakfast 2 cups cold water. 
Food. Salt. 

Would suggest partly cooking the Breakfast Food the day 

^ Calculated with milk. 



BREAKFAST FOODS 343 

before using, as a long cooking improves the quality. Put 
the food in the water and cook over direct heat for fifteen 
minutes, then put in double boiler and cook for about one 
hour, adding salt to taste when nearly done. It is then neces- 
sary to cook it but twenty minutes in the morning. Serve 
with cream. 

HOUINY HUSH, 200 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

^ cup fine hominy. 1% cups boiling water. 

Yi teaspoon salt. 

Put all together in a double boiler and cook two hours. 
Add more water if mush seems stiff and thick; all prepara- 
tions iDf corn absorb a great deal of water in cooking, and 
hominy usually needs a little more than four times its bulk. 

"Note. — Hominy is exceedingly indigestible unless well 
cooked, but sweet and nutritious when subjected to a high 
temperature for a long time. 

OATUEAI MirSH FOR CHILDREN AND INVALIDS, 880 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the oatmeal and salt in a double boiler, pour on the 
boiling water and cook three or four hours. Eemove the 
cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to let the 
steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler be strongly 
salted, the oatmeal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar 
or salt and cream or milk. 

Note. — Baked sour apples, apple sauce and apple jelly are 
delicious eaten with oatmeal. They should be served with the 
mush, and sugar and cream poured over the whole. They 
give the acid flavor which so many crave in the morning. 
Coarse oatmeal is not advisable in any form of water brash, 
acidity or bowel irritations. It often causes eruptions on the 
skin in warm weather. 

BOILED BICE 

See " Kice Puddings " for recipe. Page 297. 



244 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

STEAMED BICE 

See " Eice Puddings " for recipe. Page 398. 

STAECHY JELLIES 

BARLEY JEILY, 270 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

3 tablespoons pearl barley. % saltspoon salt. 
1 quart cold water. 

Soak barley over night, drain and add the quart of fresh 
"water; add salt; and cook in double boiler steadily for four 
liours down to one pint, adding water from time to time; 
strain through muslin. When cold this makes a thick jelly. 
Two tablespoons dissolved in eight ounces of warmed and 
sweetened milk may be given at single feeding for infants. 

Note. — Oatmeal wheaten grits and rice grains may be used 
in same way. 

Jelly made with Barley Plour, see Barley Gruel, p. 338. 

RICE TELLY, 181 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1% tablespoons rice % cup milk. 

1 cup cold water. 1 white of egg. 

Speck salt. 

Wash the rice and soak In cold water two hours, drain off 
the water and add the milk, cook in double boiler one and one- 
lialf hours. Strain through a fine sieve. Pour into molds, 
chill and serve with fruit juice or cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY, 200 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

4 tablespoons pearl tapioca. % cup boiling water. 
1 cup cold water. Speck salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water three hours; add boiling 
-water and salt; cook in double boiler two and one-fourth 
hours. Serve hot, plain with cream, wine and powdered 
sugar, or flavor while hot with lemon juice, and chill. 

CORNSTARCH JELLIES 

See " Cornstarch Pudding " for recipe. Page 395. 



MACARONI 345 

MACARONI 

BOIIED MACAEONI, 98 CALORIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
14 cup macaroni. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 cups boiling water. Cream or milk. 

Break macaroni into one-inch pieces, put into a strainer 
and rinse with cold water. Cook in boiling salted water 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Strain, pour a little cold 
water over it to prevent pieces from adhering; add cream, 
reheat and season with salt; or serve with White or Tomato 
Sauce and grated cheese. 

WHITE SATJCE, 152 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

% tablespoon butter. 14 teaspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, remove from stove and 
add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on gradually the 
hot milk, stirring constantly while blending. Cook thor- 
oughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season with, 
salt. 

TOMATO SATJCE, 93 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
1/3 cup strained tomato juice. % tablespoon flour. 
% tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes. Melt the butter and remove from, 
stove, add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on grad- 
ually the hot tomato, stirring constantly while blending ; cook 
thoroughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season, 
with salt and pepper. 

BAKED MACARONI 

1 tablespoon grated fresh, cheese =: 62 Calories. 
Fill a buttered baking-dish with alternate layers of maca- 
roni. White Sauce and cheese; then cover with buttered 

^ Without milk or cream. 



246 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

cracker crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 
Tomato Sauce may be substituted for White Sauce if desired. 

BTTTTEKEI) CRACKER CRUMBS, 201 CALORIES 
1 tablespoon butter. >/4 cup cracker crumbs. 

Melt butter and add cracker crumbs that have been rolled 
jine. To be used for the top of any scalloped dish. Cracker 
crumbs or bread crumbs may be used and bits of butter dotted 
over top. 

KOOSIES (FOR THE DIABETIC), 596 CAIORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 egg, well beaten. 5 ounces Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat egg, add milk and gradually add the Gluten Flour. 
Eoll out and cut in thin strips. Serve with any soup. 

BOILED NOODLES (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Put the noodles into cold, salted water ; cook at least forty- 
^ive minutes after it comes to boil, or boil until it is tender. 
Season with pepper and butter. Serve with White Sauce. 

CREAK OR WHITE SAUCE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 130 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

%-cup milk. ' 1 teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter without browning it, add the flour, then 
pour in the scalded milk gradually, stirring all the time. 
Cook five minutes. Season with salt and red pepper to taste. 
Plavor with onion, lemon juice or parsley if desired. Pour 
over vegetables very hot. 

NOODLES AU GRATIN (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese = 62 Calories. 
Boil the noodles as above. Place them in a baking-dish in 
alternate layers with grated cheese, having cheese form the 
top layer; season with pepper and butter. Pour over the 
mixture the water in which the noodles were cooked; or, if 
preferred, cream or stewed tomatoes may be used to moisten. 



BREAD 34r 



BREAD 



From the most remote times, bread has been an important 
part of the diet of mankind. It is to-day probably more gen- 
erally and extensively used than any other one food-stufE, 
with the possible exception of milk. It is therefore extremely 
important to know what constitutes good bread and what are 
its nutritive properties. 

Composition. The ingredients of bread are very simple — 
flour, water, yeast and salt. Any cereal, cleaned, crushed and 
sifted to a powder, may serve as the flour, but wheat flour 
makes the most satisfactory bread, because its proteins in 
the form of gluten have more elasticity than those of other 
cereals. 

" Bread contains from 34 to 40 per cent, of water, and the 
remainder, about 60 per cent, at least, is nutritive material. 
It Contains a large amount of carbohydrates, a moderate 
amount of protein, a small amount of mineral matter, and 
almost no fat. Owing to the excess of carbohydrates and 
deficiency of protein in wheat, bread could not serve alone 
for the proper nutritive of the body, because an amount of 
bread sufiicient to supply the requisite protein would furnish 
much more carbohydrates than necessary. In a mixed diet 
this discrepancy is of little importance, as it is supplied by 
the other protein foods eaten. Most methods of increasing 
the protein contents of bread have a tendency to increase 
the cost, but skim milk can be used in place of water in the 
mixing with little added expense, and it will add about 3 
per cent, increase as to protein." ^ 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value. "The nutritive value 
of bread depends, not only on its chemical composition, but 
also on its digestibility, and digestibility in its turn seems 
to depend largely on the lightness of the loaf. It is the 
gluten in a dough which gives it the power of stretching 
and rising as the gas from the yeast expands within it, and 

iFrom Fanner's Bulletin No. 389, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. 0. For further information, read "Bread and Bread-Making, * 
Farmer's Bulletin No. 389. 



S48 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

hence of making a light loaf. Eye has less gluten proteids 
than wheat, while barley, oats and maize have none, so that 
they do not make a light, porous loaf like wheat. It is pos- 
sible that of the various kinds of wheat flour those con- 
taining a large part of the bran — entire wheat and graham 
flours — furnish the body with more mineral matter than 
fine white flour; but it is not certain that the extra amount 
of mineral matter furnished is of the same value as that from 
the interior of the grain. They do not yield more digestible 
protein than the white flours, as was for a time supposed. 
It seems safe to say that, as far as is known, for a given 
amount of money, white flour yields the most actual nourish- 
ment with the various food ingredients in good proportion. 

" It should be remembered, however, that all kinds of bread 
are wholesome if of good quality, and the use of several 
kinds is an easy means of securing variety in the diet." ^ As 
compared with most meats and vegetables, bread has prac- 
tically no waste, and is very completely digested. Pew foods 
yield so much energy for so little money. A diet of. bread 
and milk can be perfectly balanced and will be tired of less 
easily than any other equally simple diet. 

All bread-stuffs should be eaten slowly and thoroughly 
masticated, in order that time may be given for the saliva 
to act upon the starch. Por if the stomach is hampered with 
quantities of unchanged starch it CMinot perform its work 
without effort. Fermentation results or the intestines have 
more than their share of work to do and rebel. If these foods 
were eaten slowly much of the resultant dyspepsia would be 
avoided. 

Gluten Bread. When, for any reason, persons are denied 
starch in the diet, as in diabetes, they find it a great priva- 
tion to do without bread, and many attempts have been made 
to provide an acceptable substitute. Sometimes bran is used, 
or inulin or Iceland moss, but none of these is nutritious. 
One of the best materials for this purpose is gluten flour. 

^From Parmer's BuUetin No. 889, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 



BREAD 249 

It is prepared by washing the starch, wholly or in part, from 
wheat flour. The grayish, tough, elastic, sticky mass left 
after this process is largely gluten, and since gluten is a 
protein, it has been sometimes called " the lean meat of the 
vegetable kingdom." The washed gluten, dried and ground, 
is called gluten flour. 

It still contains considerable starch, so that it is necessary 
for the physician to know the .exact composition of the brand 
employed, to insure good results. 

Gluten Standards. The necessity for a Standard for Gluten 
Flour is very apparent to chemists who have had occasion to 
analyze the various kinds on the market. For years millers 
have supplied dealers with middlings, entire wheat flour and 
mixtures containing bran to be sold as gluten flour. Igno- 
rant of those facts, physicians advise their patients to use 
gluten, but, of course, have invariably been disappointed in 
results. 
United States Standard for Gluten: 

" Gluten Flour is the product made from flour by the re- 
moval of starch, and contains not less than five and six- 
tenths (5.6) per cent, of Nitrogen, and not more than ten 
(10) per cent, of Moisture." 

ISTote. — Using the factor G.25 usually employed by the U. 
S. Government chemists, Standard Gluten Flour must there- 
fore show at least thirty-five (35') per cent, protein. 

Bread-Making. The two practical methods of making 
■ bread are with yeast (fermented bread) and with cream of 
tartar and bicarbonate of soda (unfermented bread). 

Fermented Bread. The raising or leavening of bread is 
usually brought about by allowing yeast to develop in it. 
Yeast is an exceedingly minute form of plant life, which, 
when given food, flour, moisture and warmth, grows; and 
by this growth produces carbon dioxide and alcohol. 

The carbon dioxide, in its effort to escape, puffs up the 
flour dough, but owing to the viscous nature of the gluten 
(the elastic, strength-giving substances of flour) it is caught 
and retained. 



850 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Each little bubble of gas occupies a certain space, and 
when the bread is baked the walls around these spaces harden 
and the result is a porous loaf. The alcohol escapes into the 
oven in the baking. 

To bake bread requires a hot oven. 

The bread should continue to rise for about fifteen min- 
utes after being placed in the oven, then the rising should 
cease and the loaf begin to brown. 

We bake bread to kill the yeast plant, to render the starch 
soluble, to expel the alcohol and carbon dioxide and to form 
a nice flavored crust. 

The making of good bread requires care and intelligence 
on the part of the cook. Use a good brand of flour, fresh 
yeast, remembering that yeast is a plant and must be put at 
a proper temperature to grow. Watch each process carefully. 

"Lightness and sweetness of bread depends as much on 
the way in which it is made as on the materials used. The 
greatest care should be used in preparing and baking the 
dough and in cooking and keeping the finished bread." 

Unfermented Bread. Carbon dioxide is obtained to lighten 
bread by causing cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda to 
unite chemically. 

To one part soda use two parts cream of tartar. When 
given moisture and heat carbon dioxide is obtained. 

Baking powder is a combination of the following in- 
gredients : 

Bicarbonate of soda 84 grammes to 

Cream of tartar 188 grammes 

Starch 5 to 20 per cent. 

WHITE I'LOTTR BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) =73 Calories. 
1 pint hot milk (or water). 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk (or water). 1 Fleischmann's yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Flour. 

2 tablespoons butter or lard. 

Into mixing bowl put the scalded milk, add the butter; 
when melted add the sugar, salt and cold milk. Save one- 



BREAD 251 

half cup of this liquid, and when lukewarm soften the yeast 
in it and stand where it will keep warm. To above mixture 
add warmed sifted flour (sift twice before using) to make a 
thin batter, add softened yeast and more flour until stifE 
enough to knead. Knead until light and spongy. Care 
should be taken not to add more flour than is absolutely neces- 
sary. Butter a large stone crock or bowl, place bread in it 
and cover. Let rise three and one-half hours at about 75 
degrees Fahrenheit (in a medium warm room). Then re- 
move from jar and knead about twenty minutes until smooth 
and velvety, put into pans, cover carefully and let rise one 
hour or until double its bulk. 

Bake in a hot oven from forty-five minutes to one hour, 
depending upon size of loaves. 

If hard crust is desired, remove from pans and cool in a 
draft of air. Por soft crust, before bread cools roll it in a 
clean cloth. 

This quantity will make three good sized loaves; one-half 
the amount may be used for one large loaf. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BBEAS 

1 slice (1 oz.) =70 Calories. 

2 cups scalded milk. 2 yeast cakes dissolved in % cup 

2 cups boiling water. lukewarm water. 

3 tablespoons butter. 2 cups white flour. 

3 tablespoons salt. Entire wheat flour enough to 

5 tablespoons molasses. knead. 

Make as for wheat flour bread, and add molasses after the 
first rising. 

One-half of recipe may be used. 

WHOLE WHEAT OB GRAHAM BREAD 

Make the same as wheat flour bread, adding two table- 
spoons of sugar or molasses. Make a batter with white flour, 
using three or four cups, then use whole wheat or graham 
flour. Let rise longer than for white bread, and put imme- 
diately into pans without second kneading. 

Note. — Omit sweetening if desired. 



252 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

GLUTEN BREAD (FOB, THE DIABETIC) 

1 slice (1 oz.) =71 Calories. 
% yeast cake. 3% cups Gum Gluten Flour. 

2 cups lukewarm water. ^ teaspoon salt. 

Soften the yeast in a small portion of the water and add 
to the ingredients. Mix to a stiff dough and knead thor- 
oughly, using more gluten if necessary to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board. Shape into a loaf, place in a buttered pan 
for about two and one-half hours to rise until the dough is 
about twice its bulk. Then bake for forty-five minutes. If 
desired the dough may be given a second mixing after the 
first rising, letting it rise again before baking. 

Note. — Gum Gluten Bread may be made the same as ordi- 
nary wheat flour bread with the exception of shortening, 
which is not required. 

Avoid having the water too warm or the bread will be 
sticky; the chill taken off is all that is necessary. 

If desired, one cup of nut meats cut in small pieces may be 
added to dough just before putting into pans. 

BRAN BREAD 

Follow rule for Gluten Bread, using one part of bran 
to four parts of Gluten Mour with one cup of moisture. If 
the bran is increased the moisture must be lessened. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD, 2530 CALORIES 

1 small slice (1 oz. ) =; 64 Calories. 
1 cup granulated Indian meal. 2 cups spur milk. 
1 cup rye ilour. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 cup graham flour. % cup molasses. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients (except soda) together; dissolve soda 
in sour milk and add, then, molasses. Pour into buttered tins 
and steam three or four hours. 

GIXTTEN BISCTTIT (FOR THE DIABETIC), 950 CALORIES i 

1 cup Gum Gluten Self-raising. 1 saltspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon butter. Milk or water. 

1 Without milk. 



BREAD 253 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk 
or water to make a soft dough. Eoll and cut with biscuit 
cutter. Makes two large biscuits. 

GLUTEN DROP BISCUIT (FOR THE DIABETIC), 562 CALORIES i 

1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. y^ teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon butter. Milk or water. 

Yg teaspoon salt. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk 
or water to make a stiff batter. Drop from spoon into a 
buttered pan, and bake very quickly. Makes three. 

BRAN BISCUIT, 416 CALORIES i 
% cup wheat bran. 1 teaspoon melted butter. 

% cup improved graham flour. 1 saltspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon Rumford baking pow- Milk, 
der. 

Sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter and add milk to 
make a soft dough. Eoll it out and bake in hot oven. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT, 694 CALORIES 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoon butter or beef drip- 

2 teaspoons Rumford baking ping. 

powder. y^ cup (scant) milk or water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Sift dry ingredients twice, rub in the butter with tips of 
fingers; using knife, stir in gradually the liquid; mix as 
soft as can be handled; put dough on a well-floured board, 
pat lightly to one inch thickness, cut with biscuit cutter, 
put on a shallow buttered tin, heated, and bake in a hot oven. 
Put a little milk on top of each biscuit before baking to 
make them brown well. 

Note. — Dough may be lightly kneaded as for bread, and 
then cut. 

GLUTEN MUFFINS (FOR THE DIABETIC), 755 CALORIES 

1 cup Gum Gluten Self-raising. % teaspoon salt. 
1 cup milk, or part water. 1 egg. 

1 Without milk. 



354 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Beat egg and add the milk. Sift the Gluten and salt and 
gradually add the liquid and beat thoroughly. Bake in hot 
buttered gem pans. 

BRAN MUFFINS, 1850 CALORIES 

2 cups bran. % cup butter. 

1 cup flour. 3 tablespoons molasses. 

1 teaspoon soda. 1% cups sour milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter with the tips of the 
fingers, add molasses and sour milk, put into hot mufiBn tins 
and bake in a hot oven. 

WHITE GEMS, 1627 CALORIES 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
4 teaspoons Rumford . baking 2 eggs. 

powder. 1 cup milk. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add melted butter 
and rub it in with tips of fingers. Add the well-beaten eggs 
and ,the milk gradually and beat all well together. Have 
gem pans well greased and heated; fill two-thirds full and 
bake in a very hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Put a 
little melted butter on each gem before putting it into the 
oven. They are sufficiently cooked when tested with a fine 
washed knitting needle and it comes out dry. 

CORNMEAL GEMS, 1370 CALORIES ^ 

1 cup flour. Ye teaspoon salt. 

% cup cornmeal. 1 egg. 

Ya cup sugar. 1 cup milk. 

4 teaspoons Rumford baking 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
powder. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and 
well-beaten egg and the melted butter. Put into well-greased 
hot gems and cook in a quick oven. 





POP-OVERS, 730 CALORIES 


1 egg. 

1 cup milk. 


Speck salt. 
1 cup flour. 



TOAST 355 

Beat egg until very light, add milk and salt and sift in the 
flour very carefully — beat very light, never stirring. Have 
ready gem pans or stone custard cups, -well greased and heated. 
Pour in mixture, filling two-thirds full, and bake in quick 
oven. This will make six large pop-overs. The success of 
these pop-overs lies in beating the batter well and in having 
the cups very hot before putting in the mixture. 

Note. — These cannot be cooked successfully in tin. 

BUTTER BAILS 
1 teaspoon butter = 36 Calories. 
Cut butter in small pieces size of balls desired, and put 
in ice-water. Soak the butter paddles in boiling water ten 
minutes, then chill in ice-water. Hold a paddle firmly in 
the left hand and roll each piece of butter with the right 
paddle until round. If butter sticks it must be chilled longer, 
or paddles must be rubbed with salt and reheated. 
One pound of butter will make about thirty balls. 

TOAST 

In ordinary wheat bread, starch is the principal constituent. 
Starch when subjected to a high degree of heat is changed 
into an easily digested substance called dextrin. 

In the ordinary cooking of a loaf of bread the starch, in 
the outer layer is changed into dextrin, which gives the crust 
its sweet flavor. Slices .of bread toasted undergo a similar 
change. 

Bread is toasted not merely to brown it, but to take out 
all the moisture possible, so that it may be more thoroughly 
moistened with the saliva, and thus easily digested; also 
to give it a better flavor. The correct way to make toast is 
to use stale bread cut in uniform slices, and to dry it thor- 
oughly before browning. 

Toast prepared in this way, even if moistened with milk 
or water, may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by the 
digestive fluids. 



256 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

ENEEGY VALUE OF BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) white bread =73 Calories. 

I slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread =i70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz. ) gluten bread ^71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston Brown Bread.. =64 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SIPPETS 

Cut thin slices of bread, and from them make oblongs an 
inch wide by four inches long. Toast carefully so that they 
will not break, and pile on a small bread-plate with doily if 
they are to be served dry. 

TOAST STICKS 
Take a slice of fresh home-made bread (made without short- 
ening), or French bread, cut five-eighths of an inch thick, re- 
move crust and cut in narrow strips. Place on rack in pan, 
and dry and brown in a slow oven. 

CROUTONS 

See chapter " Soup Accompaniments " for recipe. Page 
230. 

GLUTEN CRISP (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Cut Gum Gluten Bread into thin slices, and dry in slow 
oven' until the moistening is thoroughly evaporated, or the 
bread may be cut in cubes and slightly browned. Serve in. 
soups or in milk. 

Note. — Gluten Biscuit Crisps, page 361. 

JM m;( ,ii WATER TOAST 

V, Toast ithe bread. Dip quickly in boiling salted water (al- 
lowing onBrhalf teaspoon salt to one cup water). Spread 
with butter. Serve on hot plate. 

TOASTED CRACKERS 
1 Saltine=15 Calories. 
Toast oblong crackers daintily, and butter. Serve on plate 
•with doily, piled log-cabin fashion. 



TOAST 357 

MILE TOAST, 388 CALORIES 

Put a eup of rich milk in a saucepan and place it on the 
stove. While it is heating, toast three slices of bread to a 
delicate brown. Put them into a covered dish, and when the 
milk is scalding hot, season it with a saltspoon of salt, and 
pour it over the toast. 

Note. — A little butter may be spread on each slice before 
the milk is added, but it is a more delicate dish without it. 

CKEAM TOAST NO. I, 261 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
14 tablespoon butter. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon flour. 1% slices bread. 

% saltspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire 
and add the milk gradually. Stir over heat constantly until 
smooth, cooking five minutes after blending, or until the 
starch is thoroughly cooked. 

Toast: Remove crust if desired, cut in oblong pieces and 
toast. Serve on small platter with cream sauce poured over 
it, and garnish with toast points. 

Note. — If you wish the toast very soft, it may be dipped 
very quickly in boiling salted water before adding the cream 
sauce. 

CREAM TOAST NO. II, 261 CALORIES 
% tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon cold water. 

14 tablespoon flour. % cup milk. 

% saltspoon salt. 1% slices toast. 

Scald milk. Mix flour and salt and add the cold water 
gradually, making a smooth, thin paste. Add to scalded 
milk; cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Add butter. Pour over toast, and 
serve hot, on hot platter. 

CELERY TOAST 
4 ounces celery = 12 Calories. 
Clean celery and cut into one-inch pieces; cover with boil- 
ing water and cook until tender ; drain off water. 



358 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Prepare Cream Sauce in Cream Toast No. I; add cooked 
celery and pour on small slices of buttered toast. Garnish 
■with toast points. 

FRENCH TOAST (FOR THE DIABETIC), 144 CALORIES i 

Vi cup milk. Salt. 

1 egg. Gluten bread. 

Beat the egg, add milk and salt; dip into this mixture 
slices of Gum Gluten bread. Saute and brown in a little 
butter. 

CIAU BROTH AND TOAST 

Follow directions as for Milk or Cream Toast, adding suffi- 
cient Clam Broth (to taste) to the Sauce, and pour over toast. 
Serve hot. 

SANDWICHES 

TO PREPARE SANDWICHES 

Use white, entire wheat, graham, gluten or Boston brown 
bread. Bread may be buttered before cutting from loaf, 
spread with soft, plain butter cut into very thin slices, cover 
with another slice, press together, cut in fancy shapes, or 
roll. Wrap in waxed paper or cover with a dry napkin, 
over which place a slightly moistened one, until ready to 
serve. 

Bread may be baked purposely for sandwiches by filling 
one-half pound baking powder boxes half full of dough, let 
rise and bake. Serve sandwiches on a dainty doily on a 
small plate. 

ENERGY VAITTE OF BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread =70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread =71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston Brown Bread.. =64 Calories. 

1 teaspoon butter =36 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

1 Calculated without bread. 



SANDWICHES S59 

BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 
Butter bread slightly, cut very thin and put slices to- 
gether. Cut in fancy shapes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Steam Boston brown bread in one-half pound baking pow- 
der cans. Butter and cut in thin slices and add a thin round 
of white bread. The combination of the two makes a pleas- 
ing variety. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Chop stuffed olives fine and add equal quantity of cream 
cheese and spread on bread and butter sandwiches. A lettuce 
leaf may be added if desired. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 
Chop cold boiled chicken, add mayonnaise dressing and 
spread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

Or, instead of mayonnaise, moisten with strong chicken 
broth and season with salt and pepper. Minced celery may 
be added. 

EGG SANDWICHES 
See chapter " Eggs " for recipe. Page 183. 

TRTTIT SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with stewed dates, 
figs or prunes, seasoned with a little lemon juice or chop 
dates, raisins and nuts very fine and moisten with " Cream 
Dressing." See page 3,74. 

lETTTJCE SANDWICHES 
Spread bread and butter sandwiches with a little mayon- 
naise dressing, lay in fresh, crisp lettuce leaves washed and 
dried thoroughly, and cut even. 

NUT SANDWICHES * 

Prepare same as lettuce sandwiches, adding chopped nuts 
to the mayonnaise. 



260 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

7EFT0N0IDS SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of bread in fancy shapes, butter and spread with 
layer of Dry Peptonoids Soluble, adding salt, pepper, paprika 
or celery salt, if desired. 

Note. — Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be blended with 
mayonnaise dressing, cream, chopped nuts or eggs, for filling. 

SAW BEEP SANDWICHES 

See chapter " Beef Preparations " for recipe. Page 217. 
SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Eemove oil and bones from canned sardines. Mix with 
Boiled Dressing (page 273) to form a paste and spread. 
Chopped olives or gherkins may be added. 

CRACKERS — WAFERS 

BRAN CRACKERS, 1513 CALORIES i 

IV2 cups wheat bran. % teaspoon salt. 

1% cups sifted flour. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Milk. 

^ teaspoon soda. 

Blend all ingredients, using enough cold milk to make a 
stiff dough. Eoll to one-eighth inch thickness and cut with 
a small biscuit cutter. Great care is needed in baking that 
they do not burn and at the same time that they are thor- 
oughly cooked. 

They keep well a long time if put in a tin box. 

They should be eaten at each meal if needed as purgative 
medicine. 

EDUCATOR CRACKERS 

The various varieties of Educator Crackers may be served 
plain or buttered slightly and heated in oven. 

GLUTEN CRACKERS (FOR THE DIABETIC), 2555 CALORIES 

1 pound Gum Gluten Flour. Sweetina. 

% pound butter. Cold water. 

Salt. 

» Without milk. 



CRACKERS — WAFERS 261 

Mix thoroughly the Gum Gluten Flour with the butter, 
add salt and Sweetina to taste. Add cold water to make a 
soft dough. Toss on floured board, roll thin, cut into shape, 
bake. 

61TITEN WAFERS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

% cup thick cream = 432 Cal- Gum Gluten Flour (1 cup = 513 
ories. Calories ) . 

1 saltspoon salt. 

Add salt to the cream and add the Gluten gradually to 
make a stiff dough. Toss on a floured board and roll as 
thinly as possible and cut in strips with sharp knife or shape 
with a cutter. Bake in a buttered sheet in a slow oven until 
delicately browned. 

GLUTEN BISCTTIT CRISPS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 
1 biscuit crisp = 25 Calories. 
Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be served plain, or but- 
tered and heated slightly in oven. 

GITTTEN CHEESE WAFERS (FOR THE DIABETIC), 882 CAIORIES 
1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. Yolks 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoons cream. 1 saltspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons grated cheese. Nutmeg. 

Mix in order given, roll thin and bake. 



VEGETABLES — VEGETABLE SATJCES 

LEGUMES — ROOTS AND TUBERS — GREEN VEGETABLES 
Vegetables include nearly all kinds of plant food except 
fruits, grains and nuts. 

Classification. Vegetables are classified as — 
Legumes — as peas, beans and lentils. 
Roots and Tubers — as potatoes, beets, turnips, etc. 
Green Vegetables — as lettuce, spinach, celery, etc. 
Composition. All vegetables have a high percentage of 
water, and with the exception of legumes, a relatively small 
proportion of protein. The chief nutrients are starch and 



262 YEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

sugar. The fats are usually small in amount and chiefly in 
the form of oils. A variety of mineral salts are present, 
chiefly salts of potash and soda united with organic acids. 
Vegetables give bulk to food and possess antiscorbutic prop- 
erties. 

Digestibility. As the gastric ferments play no part in 
carbohydrate digestion, vegetables are digested mainly in the 
intestines. The presence of cellulose prevents the ready di- 
gestion of the nutrients, hence it may be stated as a general 
rule that vegetable food is less completely digested and ab- 
sorbed than animal food. It would seem desirable to restrict 
this type of food for persons of very weak digestive powers. 

General Rules for Coohing Vegetables. Wash thoroughly; 
pare, peel, or scrape, according to the kind. Let them stand 
in cold water until ready to cook, to keep them crisp, to 
freshen them when wilted, or to prevent them from turning 
dark. 

Cook in enough freshly boiling salted water to cover, and 
keep the water boiling (not rapid boiling, as tender vegetables 
are easily broken). Allow one teaspoon of salt to one quart 
of water. Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, 
except in the case of delicate green vegetables, as peas, 
spinach, etc., when it should not be added until nearly done. 
To preserve the color, cook green vegetables uncovered. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender, drained im- 
mediately, and served promptly. Overcooking injures their 
flavor and makes them tough. Time for cooking vegetables 
varies with the size, age and freshness. 

Legumes. Of this class of food-stuffs, peas and beans are 
the most important. Lentils and peanuts are also valuable, 
but less widely used. 

Composition. Fresh legumes, such as peas and beans, con- 
tain from 2 per cent, to 9 per cent, of protein, a trace of fat 
and from 7 per cent, to 30 per cent, of carbohydrate. 

Dried legumes, such as dried peas and beans, on account 
of the lessened amount of water, contain from 18 per cent, to 
35 per cent, of protein, over 1 per cent, fat, and as high as 



VEGETABLES 263 

65 per cent, carbohydrate. They form one of the chief sources 
of protein in a strictly vegetarian diet. 

Digestibility. Digestibility depends largely upon the 
method of cooking and the amount eaten. The more the 
cellulose is softened or removed, the more completely they 
are utilized. Legumes are apt to produce fermentation, 
■which causes, flatulence and gastro-intestinal disturbance. 
They are more suitable for those leading an active outdoor 
life than for invalids, convalescents, or those of sedentary 
habits. 

Principles of GooTcing. The attractiveness and digestibility 
of dried legumes depends very greatly on proper cooking. 
Hard water must not be used, as it makes them hard and 
unpalatable, and causes a considerable loss of protein. 
Water softened by boiling is more desirable than that soft- 
ened by baking soda. When cooked in the former, the dried 
legumes, especially beans, keep their shape better, are only 
very slightly colored yellow, and are more mealy, conse- 
quently more digestible, as the digestive juices can more 
easily mingle with the particles of the food. 

Boots and Tubers. Eoots and tubers contain the reserve 
material stored up by the plant, and some of them are among 
the important food-stuffs. Their nutritive value is largely 
due to starch and sugar. On accounl of the small proportion 
of protein and fat, and the large proportion of water, they 
are inferior in nutritive value to both legumes and cereals. 
The mineral matter is an important constituent of these, as 
of other vegetable foods. Sodium, potassium and iron salts, 
and sulphur and phosphorus compounds, are the common ash 
constituents. In combination with organic acids, etc.,, they 
contribute much to the flavor of these foods. 

As a class they may be divided into the following groups : 

1. Starch-yielding vegetables, as potatoes and sweet pota- 
toes. 

2. Succulent roots, as beets, carrots, parsnips and onions. 

3. Condimental or flavoring roots, as horse-radish and gin- 
ger. 



364 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

The potato is the most important of the starch-yielding 
class of vegetables. It is a tuber or thickened underground 
stem. 

The composition of the potato (Letheby) is as follows : 

Water 75.00 per cent. 

Starch 18.80 per cent. 

Nitrogenous matter 2.00 per cent. 

Sugar 3.00 per cent. 

Fat 20 per cent. 

When pared before cooking, there may be a considerable 
loss of nutritive material, especially of mineral matter. By 
cooking in the skin, this loss is largely prevented. To be 
easily digestible, a potato must be mealy, so as to be readily 
acted on by digestive juices. This is best accomplished by 
baking in an oven at 380 to 400° P. When a patient begins 
to take solids, the vegetable usually first prescribed is a baked 
potato. 

Beets, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips and onions are 
the most common of the class of succulent roots. They con- 
tain, as a rule, more vi^ater than the starch-yielding class of 
vegetables, and their carbohydrates are frequently- in the form 
of sugars, pectins, and other polysaccharide carbohydrates 
than true starch, some of which have no nutritive value. The 
percentage of crude fiber is greater than in the starch-yield- 
ing class. 

The characteristic flavors and odors are in many cases due 
to the presence of volatile organic compounds of sulphur. 
These are often advantageous in making the vegetables pal- 
atable, and adding variety to the diet. 

The beet contains a large percentage of starch and sugar. 

Carrots and parsnips also contain much sugar, and when 
young and tender form a very nutritious food. 

Onions contain considerable nutriment, but are most val- 
uable for their pungent oil, which is rich in sulphur. They 
have diuretic properties, and are useful in constipation. 

Eadishes contain a large amount of cellulose and should 
not be eaten by invalids. They are chiefly used as a relish. 



VEGETABLES 265 

Green Vegetables. These vegetables have a fuel value of 
less than 200 calories per pound; they are useful chiefly for 
their mineral salts, and for the bulk, variety and relish they 
give to the diet. 

Asparagus is easily digested, even by invalids. It has a 
diuretic action, and imparts a characteristic odor to the urine 
for some hours. 

Cabbage contains considerable sulphur and therefore fre- 
quently causes flatulence. 

Cauliflower belongs to the cabbage family, but is easily 
digested. 

Celery is more digestible cooked than raw. 

Spinach is especially valuable for its large amount of iron. 

ENERGY VALUE OP THE POTATO 
1 medium potato (314 ozs.) =83 Calories. 
See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and put into 
cold water to keep from discoloring. Put them into sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, boil and when partly cooked, 
add one tablespoon salt to every six potatoes. Cook until 
soft, about twenty-five to thirty minutes, drain very dry, and 
shake the pan, without a cover, gently over the stove till 
the potatoes are mealy. Do not serve in covered dish. 

BICEB POTATOES 

Add salt and pepper to boiled potatoes, and rub them 
through a heated potato-ricer or squash-strainer into the (hot) 
dish they are to be served in. Serve immediately, or pour 
a little milk over the top and brown in the oven. 

HASHED POTATOES, 305 CALORIES 

For mashed potatoes the uneven sizes may be used; the 
larger ones should be cut, so all will be of uniform size. 
Prepare as for boiled potatoes. When cooked and dried, add 
salt, butter, pepper and cream in following proportion : 



366 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

1 pint potatoes. Yg saltspoon white pepper. 

% teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons hot cream or milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

To the potatoes add the salt, pepper and butter, and mash, 
leaving them in saucepan cooked in, and on stove so as to, 
keep them hot. Use open-wire masher or fork and beat 
quickly, so they may be light and dry, not " gummy." Lastly 
put in the cream, beat for a moment and serve immediately. 

POTATO CAKES 

From cold mashed potatoes make slightly flattened balls. 
Put them in a floured tin, brush each over with milk and 
bake in a hot oven five minutes, or till a delicate brown. 

Note. — These cakes may be sauteed in a little beef fat or 
butter if desired. 

SXTRPRISE BAILS 
Eoll the potatoes into balls as above, and with a teaspoon 
press a hollow in the top. Chop fine some cold, lean meat, 
season it with salt, pepper and gravy and put one teaspoon 
of the meat into the hollow of the potato ball. Put a little 
milk or melted butter on top and brown in oven or saute. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size, not very large, wash and 
scrub thoroughly, cut off a small piece at each end in order 
that the steam may escape. Bake in hot oven from forty-five 
to fifty minutes. When baked break open slightly, that steam 
may escape, and serve on folded napkin. 

POTATOES BAKED IN THE HAIF SHEIL 

Cut off top of baked potato and scoop out inside. Mash 
and season well as for mashed potatoes and add the well- 
beaten white of egg. Fill the skins with the mixture, heap- 
ing it lightly on top, brush over with milk or slightly beaten' 
white of egg and brown slightly. Potatoes may be sprinkled 
with grated cheese before putting into oven. 



VEGETABLES 267 

POTATOES ATT GBATIIT 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and put into a buttered 
baking dish. Cover with white sauce, put buttered cracker 
or bread crumbs on top and bake until golden brown. 

Note. — A little grated cheese added to the White Sauce 
just before pouring over the potatoes adds a pleasant flavor. 

CBEAUKD POTATOES, 180 CALOBIES 

1 cup cold Sliced or cubed po- 14 teaspoon salt. 

tatoes. % teaspoon finely chopped pars- 

Vi cup milk. ley. 

% tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

Heat the milk, add the potatoes, and cook until they have 
nearly absorbed the milk. Add butter and seasoning, cook 
five minutes longer, add parsley and serve hot. 

POTATO BALLS 

Prom large potatoes cut balls with a French potato cutter 
and throw them into cold water. Cook for twelve minutes 
or more in enough boiling water to cover. Salt at end of 
six minutes. Drain and let them stand a few minutes to 
dry. Serve as a vegetable, with cream sauce, or with parsley 
butter, or use as a garnish for broiled fish. Test potatoes 
with a needle to see when tender. 

Xote. — Make mashed potatoes from frames left after cut- 
ting out the balls. 

PARSLEY BTTTTER, 358 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon butter. Juice % lemon. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 pint potato balls. 

Cream the butter, add lemon juice and chopped parsley. 
Add to the hot potato balls, heat five minutes and serve. 
Omit lemon juice if desired. 

ASPARAGUS 

14 bunch asparagus =60 Calories. 

1 slice toast (1 oz.) =73 Calories. 

Boiled Asparagus. Prepare asparagus by cutting off lower 
part of stalk at the point at which they will snap. Wash, 



268 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

remove scales and tie together or cut into one inch pieces. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, twenty to thirty-five 
minutes. As the tips are more tender keep them out of water 
the first ten minutes of the cooking. Drain, place in hot 
serving dish, spread with one-half teaspoon butter and sprin- 
kle with salt. 

Asparagus on Toast. Serve boiled asparagus on buttered 
toast, moistened with a little of the liquid the asparagus is 
cooked in. 

Cream Asparagus, Plain or on Toast. Pour Cream Sauce 
No. I over boiled asparagus and serve hot, or serve boiled 
asparagus on toast and pour Cream Sauce No. I over same. 

CARROTS 
1 small carrot (2 ozs.) =20 Calories. 

Boiled Carrots. Wash, scrub and scrape off the very thin 
skin. Cut each carrot into slices from one-fourth to one- 
fifth inch thick, cut into cubes and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft, forty-five to sixty minutes. They may be 
served plain with a little melted butter, salt and pepper, or 
they may be mashed and seasoned as above. 

Creamed Carrots. Pour Creamed Sauce No. I over boiled 
cubed carrot, reheat and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER 

1 serving (4 ozs.) :r=35 Calories. 

Boiled Cauliflower. Cut off stalk and remove leaves of 
cauliflower. Soak thirty minutes in cold water to cover, head 
down. Cook, head up, twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft, 
in boiling salted water. Drain and separate flowerets. 

Creamed Cauliflower. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
cauliflower, reheat and serve. 

CELERY 

1 serving (2 ozs.) =6 Calories. 
Scrape celery. Cut stalks in one-half inch pieces and 
cook uncovered in boiling salted water twenty to thirty min- 
utes. Serve with Cream Sauce No. I poured over it. Sauce 



VEGETABLES 269 

can be made using part milk and part water in which celery 
was cooked. 

SPINACH — DANDELIONS — BEET GREENS 

1 serving (4 ozs.) ^27 Calories. 
Eemove roots, pick oyer carefully (discarding wilted leaves) 
and wash thoroughly in many waters until free from sand; 
cook in boiling salted water, allowing one-fourth as much 
water as greens. Cook twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain 
and chop if desired, reheat, season with butter and salt ; gar- 
nish with slices of hard-cooked egg. Serve with vinegar, 

ONIONS 

1 serving (4 ozs.) =56 Calories. 

Boiled Onions. Put onions into pan of cold water and peel 
under water. Put them into boiling water with one teaspoon 
salt and one-fourth teaspoon soda to one quart water. After 
cooking five minutes pour off the water and add fresh boiling 
salted water, and after ten minutes change the water again. 
Boil until tender — forty-five to sixty minutes. Drain off 
the water and add a little milk, cook a few moments and add 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Onions. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
onions, reheat and serve. 

Scalloped Onions. Place onions in a baking dish and add 
Cream Sauce No. I. Cover top with buttered cracker or 
bread crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

PEAS (GREEN OR CANNED) 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =114 Calories. 
Oreen Peas. Eemove peas ivprn pods, cover with cold 
water and let stand one-half hour. Skim ofE small peas that 
come to the top and drain remaining peas. Cook until soft, 
thirty to forty-five 'minutes, in a small quantity of water. 
There should be little or no water to drain from peas when 
they are cooked. A small quantity of sugar may be added 
if the natural sweetness of the peas has been lost. Season 
with butter and salt. 



370 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Canned Peas should be drained and thoroughly rinsed, 
cover with boiling water, boil two minutes and again drain, 
then add a small quantity of boiling water and cook from 
five to ten minutes. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Peas No. I. To one-third cup of cooked peas 
add one teaspoon of flour mixed with one-eighth teaspoon of 
sugar. Cook slightly and add one tablespoon of cream, and 
salt and pepper to taste.= 75 calories. 

Creamed Peas No. II. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over 
drained cooked peas, reheat and serve. 

STRING BEANS 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =44 Calories. 

Eemove strings from beans and cut or snap into one inch 
pieces. Wash and cook in boiling water until tender (one 
to three hours). Drain and season with butter and salt. 
Cook beans in as little water as possible. Select fresh beans 
that will snap easily. 

STEWED TOKATOES 

1 medium tomato =16 Calories. 

1 eup canned tomato =51 Calories. 

Canned or fresh tomatoes may be used. To prepare fresh 
tomatoes wash, pour boiling water over them and then peel 
and cut into pieces, put in saucepan and cook slowly twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a few bread or cracker 
crumbs and season with butter, salt and pepper. Bread and 
cracker crumbs, may be omitted. A little sugar may be added 
if tomatoes are very acid. 

BAKEb TOMATOES 
1 medium tomato = 16 Calories. 
Wash, dry and remove a thin slice from stem end of to- 
mato. Eemove seeds and pulp, and drain off most of the 
liquid; to the pulp add an equal quantity of cracker crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion, or a 
few drops of onion juice. EefiU tomatoes with mixture and 



VEGETABLE SAUCES 271 

place in a buttered tin; sprinkle with buttered cracker 
crumbs, bake twenty to thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES (FOR THE DIABETIC), 165 CALORIES 

(Individual Eule.) 
1 large ripe tomato. 3 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. 

Salt, pepper. 2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp; and place on top of this one-half 
the tomato, from which the skin has been removed and then 
cut in small pieces; season well with salt, pepper and bits of 
butter. Add another layer of crumbs (one crushed Biscuit 
Crisp), then the remaining tomato and seasoning, lastly 
crumbs. Place bits of butter on top, put in slow oven and 
bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 

CREAK OR WHITE SATTCE KG. I, 152 CALORIES i 
Use to pour over any vegetable. 
(Individual Kule.) 
^4 eup milk or thin cream. Yi saltspoon salt. 

% tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

% tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove 
from stove, add the flour, then the scalding milk gradually, 
put over heat and cook, stirring constantly, until smooth 
and there is no raw taste of starch. 

This sauce may be used in many ways — with creamed oys- 
ters, sweetbreads, any cream dish or any scalloped dish. If 
a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

CREAU SAUCE NO. II, 134 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk or thin cream. 1 teaspoon butter. 

% tablespoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

> Calculated with milk. 



272 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Scald the cream. "Wet the flour with a little cold milk to 
make a smooth mixture, and add to the hot cream. Cook 
well. Just before serving add the butter and salt, and pep- 
per if desired. 

Sauce blended in this way is especially easy of digestion. 
If a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

The salad plants, such as lettuce, celery, water cress, en- 
dives, etc., contain little nutriment, but are especially rich 
in mineral matter, and served uncooked in the form of salad, 
all this mineral matter is preserved. They are very valuable, 
as these mineral substances are necessary for the healthy 
condition of the blood and should form a large part of the 
daily diet. 

Salads should not be eaten by dyspeptics or those having 
delicate bowels. 

Salads should be prepared daintily, arranged attractively 
and always be served cold. Lettuce and other salad plants 
should be fresh, crisp, and dry. Wash thoroughly, on account 
of danger of germs from dust, soil, etc., chill in very cold 
water until crisp and dry by placing on a clean towel so that 
the water will drain from the leaves; or fold lightly in a 
towel and place on ice until serving time. Parsley is re- 
vived quickly by sprinkling with cold water and putting it 
into an air-tight fruit jar and keeping it in a cold. place. 
Treated in this way it will keep fresh a long time. 

Dressing should not be added to green vegetables until 
just before serving, as it tends to wilt them. 

Meat to be used in salads should be free from skin and 
gristle, and should be cut into small cubes, mixed with French 
dressing and allowed to stand some time before combining 
with the vegetables. 

A dainty salad served with a crisp cracker or cheese wafer 



SALAD DRESSING 273 

forms an acceptable luncheon for the convalescent. It may 
also be served with dinner. 

FRENCH DRESSING, 270 CALORIES 
(Individual Bule, 1/3 of Recipe.) 

1 tablespoon vinegar. % teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons Nieelle olive oil. % saltspoon pepper. 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly and pour over salad just 
before serving. 

BOIIED DRESSING, 483 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, V2 of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

% teaspoon mustard. % cup milk. 

Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 14 cup vinegar. 

Mix all dry ingredients. Beat egg in double boiler, add 
dry ingredients, butter and milk; cook over hot water, stir- 
ring constantly until thick like custard; add vinegar; cool 
and serve. 

Note. — If it curdles, beat over cold water until smooth. 

UAYONNAISE DRESSING, 2570 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule, 14 of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon mustard. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons powdered sugar. 1% cups Nieelle olive oil. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Mix dry ingredients, add to yolks and mix thoroughly. 
Add a few drops of oil at a time until one-half cup is used, 
beating with egg-beater or wooden spoon. Then add al- 
ternately a few drops of vinegar and lemon juice and the 
remainder of the oil, using care not to lose the stifE con- 
sistency. It should be a thick dressing and not added to 
food until just before serving. 

N"ote. — Have all ingredients and utensils thoroughly 
chilled and place mixing bowl in a pan of crushed ice while 
blending. 



274t VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

If dressing curdles, take another egg yolk and add the 
curdled mixture to it slowly, beating constantly. 

Note, — One-half or one-fourth of recipe may be prepared. 
As it will keep well it is best to prepare in larger quantity, 
thus saving labor. 

CREAM DRESSING, 1697 CALORIES 

(For Fruit Salads.) 
% cup butter. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon cider vinegar. 

1 cup scalded milk, 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 yolks of eggs. % cup vinegar. 
3 whites of eggs. % cup sugar. 

(ft) Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour and pour on 
gradually the scalding milk, cook thoroughly, stirring con- 
stantly. (6) Beat yolks in top of double bqiler, add the 
mustard (dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar), salt and 
vinegar. Pour (a) gradually on the egg mixture and cook 
over hot water until it thickens like soft custard, remove from 
fire, add the sugar and fold in the stiffly-beaten white of eggs. 
Pour into glass fruit jar, cool and cover and keep on ice. 
This dressing will keep a long time and is especially delicious 
to serve with fruit salads. 

CHICKEN SALAD, 856 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

2 cups cut chicken. % saltspoon pepper. 

1 cup cut celery. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

2 tablespoons Nicelle olive oil. 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. 

1 saltspoon salt. ^ 

Mayonnaise, olives, celery leaves or white lettuce for gar- 
nishing. 

Cut the cold chicken into small dice ; cut the cleaned celery, 
into small uniform pieces. Mix these together and pour over 
the oil. Mix well, then sprinkle with salt and pepper to 
taste; add the vinegar, blend and put in colander to drain; 
set in a cold place for two or three hours. Just before serv- 
ing add the mayonnaise, put on a bed of lettuce and garnish. 

Note. — Do not mince chicken. 



SALADS 275 ' 

FRUIT SALADS 

Any combination of fruit desired may be used served with 
" Cream Dressing." An attractive combination is a banana 
peeled, cut in half crosswise. Cut one-half lengthwise, ar- 
range on lettuce leaf, add a little Cream Dressing and gar- 
nish with malaga grapes (cut in half and seeded) and small 
pieces of English walnuts. 

MASGU£RIT£ SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg cut crosswise. Eemove yolk. Cut 
white in slices, petal fashion, arrange on lettuce leaf like a 
marguerite and fill the center with the yolk put through the 
potato-ricer or strainer. Garnish with parsley and serve 
with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

MIXES SALAD 

Equal proportions of green peas (cooked and drained), 
celery cut in thin slices and English walnuts cut into small 
pieces. Season with salt and pepper, add mayonnaise and 
serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with ripe cherries on the 
stem with blanched hazel nuts put in place of stones. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

Mix equal parts of parboiled sweetbreads cut into one-half 
inch cubes and celery cut into thin slices. Season with salt 
and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Arrange daintily 
on lettuce leaves. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Take some medium sized tomatoes, cover with boiling 
water, remove skin and put in refrigerator until ready to 
serve. Then cut off top of tomato, scoop out a part of the 
inside and fill with finely cut celery mixed with boiled dress- 
ing or with mayonnaise. Serve tomato on lettuce leaf and 
garnish with sprig of parsley. 

WALDORF SALAD 
Mix equal parts of apples, pared and cut into small cubes, 
celery sliced in thin circles and English walnuts cut into 



276 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

small pieces. Season with salt and moisten with mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce leaf, garnished with a spoonful of whipped 
cream and halves of English walnuts or pecans. 

WATER LILT SALAD 
One hard-cooked egg. Cut in halves crosswise in fence 
fashion-; remove yolk, put through strainer and refill white. 
Serve on shredded lettuce leaves and garnish with parsley. 
Serve with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE WAFERS 
Butter wafer crackers and sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese. Put in oven and bake till cheese is melted and crack- 
ers are a delicate brown. Arrange on small plate with doily. 
Serve with salad. 

CHEESE GLUTEN BISCUIT CRISPS (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Put grated cheese on Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps, place in 
moderate oven until the cheese is melted. Serve while hot. 
Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be spread with cream cheese 
and served with salad. 

FRUITSi 

Fruits are the seed-bearing portions of plants. Some 
products of this class, such as melons, are sometimes called 
fruits and sometimes vegetables ; and a few vegetable products 
which are not fruits in the strict sense, are included in this 
class of food products because they have a similar place in 
the diet. 

Composition. Fresh fruits contain a high percentage of 
water, varying from about 75 per cent, to over 95 per cent. 
It has been suggested that those containing 80 per cent, or 
more of water be classed as flavor fruits, and those with less 
than 80 per cent, as food fruits : Bananas, grapes and fresh 
figs are the commonest examples of the latter class. When 
the water is removed by evaporation, as in drying, the per- 

' For further information, note " Uses of Fruit as Food." Farmer's Bulle- 
tin No. 293, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. 0; 



FRUITS 377 

centage of moisture falls to 30 per cent, or less, and the 
proportion of nutrients is eorrespoAdingly raised, so that 
dried fruits would fall into the class of food fruits. Pre- 
served fruits have their nutritive value raised by the addition 
of water, and usually by some loss of water in preparation. 

As a class, fruits contain little or no fat. The olive is a 
remarkable exception. 

The proportion of protein is so low as to be practically 
negligible. 

Carbohydrates are the chief nutrieiit present. In ripe 
fruits these are almost wholly in the form of sugars and other 
soluble carbolr^dratgg, commonly called pectin bodies. In 
unripe fruits starchjs often found - — notably in the ordinary 
banana. ) The principal sugars are sucrose or cane sugar, dex- 
trose or grape sugar,, and levulose or fruit sugar. A mix- 
ture of the last two is common, and is called invert sugar. 

Fruits contain characteristic organic acids, such as malic 
in apples, citric in lemons, etc. These acids exist in the form 
of salts, usually of potassium. A little phosphoricaeid, lime, 
iron, etc., also occur. 

The flavor is due partly to the sugars and acids, and partly 
to characteristic ethereal bodies present in small quantities.. 
Chemists have isolated the ethers and oils which give the 
peculiar flavor to bananas, strawberries and other fruits. 

Digestibility. Digestibility of fruits varies with the kind 
of fruit eaten and its mode of preparation; stewe d fruits. are 
more easily digested than jw_frui^ Personal idiosyncracy 
has also much to dp with digestibility in case of this class 
of food materials. (jOranges, lemons, grapes and peaches are 
very generally digested with ease. Oranges are much used 
in invalid dietaries, their juice being very effecti ve in alla y- 
ingjhirst, ) Orange juice is also commonly administered to 
infants, especially if fed artificially, for the sake of the min- 
eral matter and to prevent constipation. 

It is important to those who are obliged to exclude sugar 
from the dietary to know that fruits containing the least 
sugar are the plum, peach, apricot and raspberry. Those 



278 



VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 



containing the largest amounts are the apple, -eweet cherry^ 
grape and pear. 

The apple exerts a most excellent influence upon the liver 
and kidneys, and is valuable in cases of acidity of the stom- 
ach. 

The juice of the ripe pineapple contains a remarkable ac- 
tive digestive principle, similar to pepsin, termed bromelin, 
and so powerful is its action upon proteids that it will digest 
as much as one thousand times its weight within a few hours. 
It is especially valuable in diphtheria and diabetes. 

Pigs and prunes are valuable for inactivity of the liver 
and most excellent laxatives. 

The banana contains a large amount of starch, as much as 
the potato ; therefore it should not be eaten in an unripe state. 
For invalids and children and others of delicate digestion, it 
should always be cooked . 

Grape juice and other freshly expressed juices are refresh- 
ing and wholesome beverages, and can often be given to in- 
valids when the pulp would prove irritating. 

Nutritive Value. Fresh fruits are chiefly valuable for 
their re freshing, appetizing (qualities, and for their minera l 
constituents. The organic acids' form carbonates in the body, 



and by their alkalinity assist in the regulation of, "body 
processes. 

In disturbed conditions of metabolism it is often important 
to know just what salts and acids fruits contain. 

As already stated, the chief nutrients are carbohydrates. 
In fuel value, fresh fruits resemble given vegetables, as is 
shown by the following figures : 



Kind of Fresh Fruit. Calories 
Per. 
Pound. 

. Apples 290 

Blackberries 270 

Oranges 240 

Peaches 190 



Kind of Green Calories 

Vegetables. Per. 

Pound. 

Beans, string, fresh 195 

Beets, fresh 215 

Carrots, fresh 210 

Onions, fresh 205 



FRUITS 379 

The dried fruits- compare favorably with bread, dried beans 
and similar foods as to energy value, but the latter contain 
protein in considerable amounts, while in fruits it occurs only 
in small quantities. The fuel value of fruits is often in- 
creased by the sugar added in cooking or serving. 

Fruits are also valuable for bulk" which is an essential 
factor in diet. Most of them contain a considerable propor- 
tion of indigestible matter. Intelligently used, fruits are a 
valuable part of a well-balanced diet, and their use should 
be encouraged. 

Precautions in the Use of Fruit. Over-ripe or unripe fruit 
should not be eaten raw; besides inferior flavor there is dan- 
ger of digestive disturbance. 

Before serving, all fruit should be thoroughly washed to 
^void germs. Digestive disturbances are more often caused 
by these germs than by the fruit itself. There ii danger 
also of acquiring harmful intestinal parasites from raw 
fruits; in all doubtful cases, the food should be cooked. 

BAKED APPLES 
1 medium apple = 70 Calories. 
Wipe and core apples. Put in a shallow dish with one 
tablespoon water to each apple; more may be added during 
cooking if necessary, put into the center of each apple two 
teaspoons sugar. Bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty min- 
utes, or until soft; baste with the syrup evei-^ten minutes. 
A little nutmeg may be added to the sugar, and a few drops 
of lemon j-uice to each apple. Care must be taken that apples 
do not lose their shape and break. 

STEWED APPLE SAUCE, 90 CAIORIES 
Wash, pare, core and slice one apple; put in saucepan and 
add one teaspoon sugar and enough boiling water to partly 
cover. Cover and cook slowly without stirring until trans- 
parent and tender. Appetizing to serve with any breakfast 
food. 

Pears and peaches may be cooked in the same way. 



280 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

APPLES CUBAN STYLE 

Pare and core sound, tart ajjples. Steam until almost ten- 
der; remove to a buttered pan; fill cavities with cocoanut, 
stick apples full of blanched almonds,, baste with syrup made 
of sugar, water and lemon juice. Finish cooking in a hot 
oven, basting often. When serving, fill the cavities wi,th 
jelly or the jellied juice. 

APRICOT AND PRUNE SAUCE, 178 CALORIES i 

Yi cup prunes. • 1 cup cold water. 

% cup dried apricots. Sugar to taste. 

Wash fruit carefully; soak over night and cook slowly for 
two hours. If cooked properly the fruit will need very little 
sugar, as the sugar in the fruit is developed by this method 
of cooking. 

BAKED BANANA 
1 medium banana = 64 Calories. 

Eaw, this fruit is often indigestible, but baked it acts as 
a stimulunt to the nerves, being at once received and rapidly 
assimilated by the stomach. Cut bananas in halves; put in 
shallow pan; sprinkle with sugar and a little lemon juice and 
bake until soft. 

Note. — The banana contains starch and should be thor- 
oughly ripened before eating. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE OR JELLY 
1 cup cranberries. % cup water. 

14 cup sugar. 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put in saucepan and add 
sugar and^water, bring to the boiling point and boil fifteen 
minutes. Strain and cool. 

For jelly use one-half cup sugar and one-quarter cup water 
and after straining put into molds. 

BAKED LEMON OR ORANGE 

Bake a lemon or a sour orange in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. When done, open at one end and take out 

1 Without sugar. 



FRUITS 281 

the inside. Sweeten with sugar or molasses. This is excel- 
lent for hoarseness and pressure on the lungs. 

ORANGE SUNFLOWER 

Wash the orange. Put a three-tined fork into the stem 
end. Cut off each end down to pulp, leaving the stem end 
on fork, then pare off rind to pulp, cut out each section and 
place on small plate in sunflower fashion, the pieces of pulp 
for petals; fill centre with granulated sugar. Serve cold. 

Note. — To cut nicely have a large, firm, cold orange and 
a sharp knife. 

ORANGE NO. II 

1 medium orange = 77 Calories. 

Select a large, firm orange ; wash, cut and peel skin down 
in eight parts, leaving them connected to stem end of orange 
to form the petals, folding them under the pulp. Separate 
pulp in sections and put ice between petals before serving. 

PINEAPPLE, 131 CALORIES 
1 slice Hawaiian pineapple. 1 Maraschino cherry. 

Serve pineapple on small tea plate with cherry in center. 
To eat a slice' of pineapple after a meal is quite in accord- 
ance with physiological indications, as pineapple juice con- 
tains a remarkable digestive principle similar to pepsin. It 
aids the work of digestion in the stoinach, also in the intes- 
tinal tract. The Hawaiian Pineapple comes in three forms — 
sliced, crushed and grated. The sliced pineapple is usually 
served just as it comes from the can ; the crushed and grated 
are used like apple sauce and also in delicious made desserts 
and beverages. 

STEWED PRUNES 

3 prunes = 72 Calories. 

Wash and look over the prunes, cover with clear cold water 

and allow to stand on the back of range over night. In the 

morning put the saucepan where they will cook slowly for 

four hours. 



282 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Note. — No sugar-is needed as prunes are 18 per cent, sugar, 
and by this manner of cooking are made very sweet. This 
simmering process renders them rich and juicy, while boiling 
toughens the skin. A little lemon juice is a pleasant addi- 
tion. 

Prunes are a valuable nutrient, and their use as a laxative 
is scarcely second to figs. 

STEAMED RHTJBAKB, 234 CALORIES i 

1 cup rhubarb (4 oz.). V4 ^o Vz cup sugar. 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces without re- 
moving the skin, as this gives a pretty pink color to the juice. 
Put it into an agate double boiler without water and steam 
one-half hour, or until soft. Do not stir, as it breaks the 
pieces. Sweeten to taste at once on taking from fire. If 
rhubarb cooks a minute too long — which means after it has 
gone to pieces — it will lose its delicious flavor. 

Ehubarb is rich in oxalic acid, which does much to tone 
the system. 

STE.WES FIGS, 936 CALORIES 

% pound figs. 1 cup cold water. 

>4 cup white sugar. Juice % lemon; 

Wash figs. Dissolve sugar in the water ; add figs and bring 
slowly to boiling point. Stew two and one-half hours ; when 
tender, add lemon juice. 

Note. — Cut figs in small pieces ; cook very slowly so as 
not to add more water. 

SATE BON SONS 

1 date = 20-25 Calories. 

1 walnut meat = 6-8 Calories. 

Put salted almonds, or fourths of English walnuts into the 
inside of dates that have been cut open and stones removed. 
Eoll in powdered or granulated sugar and serve. 

1 Calculated with Vt, cup sugar; with V4 cup sugar =444 calories. 



NUTS 283 



NUTSi 



Kuts enter but little into the invalid's dietary, but as more 
attention is being paid to means of rendering them di- 
gestible, a word concerning them is not out of place. 

Composition. The edible substance of nuts is concentrated 
food, containing little water, and with few exceptions, much 
fat. In general, nuts are also rich in protein. The average 
composition is as follows: 

Water 1-4% 

Protein 6-15% 

Tats 40-50% 

Carbohydrates 6-10% 

The onl}" common nut containing much carbohydrate is the 
chestnut, which contains 73 per cent. The pignolia, peanut, 
butternut, almond, beechnut and pistachio contain over 20 
per cent, of protein. The pecan, brazil nut, butternut, filbert, 
hickory nut and walnut contain over 60 per cent, of fat. 

The ash content is comparatively high. Walnuts, almonds, 
etc., are rich in phosphoric acid. 

Cooking of Nuts. Nuts are more often eaten raw than 
cooked. But the peanut is not considered palatable wheii raw, 
and the chestnut is very indigestible unless the starch is 
cooked, when it becomes very easily digestible. Almonds are 
widely used in confectionery. 

Nuts may be used as staple articles of diet, in salad, soups, 
desserts, etc. 

To insure the best utilization of nuts they must be thor- 
oughly prepared for digestion by grinding or mastication. 
Nut butters ofEer much less resistance to digestion than raw, 
nuts hastily eaten. On account of the high fat content, 
these products must be fresh, or the fat is likely to decompose 
(become rancid) and be irritating. 

Nut flours and meals are made into bread or porridge. 
Almond meal (containing no starch and very little sugar) 
is often utilized as a bread for diabetics. The chestnut can- 

1 For further information, note " Nuts and Their Uses as Food," Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 332, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. 0. 



384 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

no^ be so used, on account of its high content of starch. The 
peanut contains about 11 per cent, of carbohydrates, and 
hence is undesirable for this purpose. 

Digestibility. Nuts have been considered very indigestible. 
This is due largely to improper mastication or other prepara- 
tion for digestion; to the fact that they are a very concen- 
trated food, and are often eaten when not needed. While 
nut protein, as nuts are ordinarily eaten, is not so easily nor 
completely digested as meat protein, there are experiments 
showing that- on the whole, they are as thoroughly digested 
as an ordinary mixed diet. No experiments have been re- 
ported on the ease or rapidity of nut digestion. 

Nutritive Value. Nuts are a concentrated food. This is 
clearly shown by the following figures : 

1 lb. of Almonds yield 2895 Calories. 

1 lb. of Brazil nuts yield 3120 Calories. 

1 lb. of Filberts yield 3100 Calories. 

1 lb. of Hickory yield 3345 Calories. 

1 lb. of Peanuts yield 2610 Calories. 

1 lb. of Walnuts yield 3075 Calories. 

The high fuel value is due to the absence of water and the 
large amount of fat present. Nuts can be most- advan- 
tageously used along with bulky foods, such as fruits and 
vegetables, and those lacking in fat, such as bread. In a 
vegetarian diet they become a valuable source of protein. 

FUNGI AND ALGM 

These substances have little nutritive value. They may be 
considered as food adjuncts, rather than foods proper. 

Of fungi, mushrooms are the most commonly eaten. They 
are prized for their delicate flavor. Chemical analysis shows 
a high percentage of nitrogen, but although reported as pro- 
tein, it is largely in an indigestible form. 

Algse and lichens are much used as food in some parts of 
the world and high claims are sometimes made for their 
nutritive value, but digestion experiments show that, although 



FUNGI AND ALG^ 285 

they have a similar carbohydrate content to other succulent 
vegetable foods, these carbohydrates are not attacked by the 
ordinary digestive enzymes of the alimentary tract. 

The most important alga, from the dietetic standpoint, is 
Irish moss. It is commonly used in making jellies or sooth- 
ing beverages for invalids, but it has no nutritive value 
whatsoever. 

The lichen most used as food is Iceland moss. It has 
frequently been recommended as a food for diebetics, but it 
is practically indigestible. 



CHAPTER XI 
NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

HOT AND COLD DESSERTS — FROZEN DESSERTS 

SOFT CUSTARDS, SAKED CUSTARDS, WHIPS AND SOUFEIES, 
JUNKET, CORNSTARCH PUDDINGS OR BLANC MANGE, RICE, 
TAPIOCA, CRACKER AND BREAD PUDDINGS, SAUCES 

Properly prepared, the dessert may constitute a very large 
part of the nutriment represented in a meal. Dishes con- 
taining eggs, milk, cream, starches, etc., in large proportion 
are necessarily of high nutritive value, and become a useful 
means of administering these foods to patients who do not 
care for the flavor of plain milk, raw eggs, cereals, etc., or 
who are likely to become tired of them. For invalids, com- 
binations of foods should always be simple, because the more 
complex the mixture of protein, fat and carbohydrate, the 
longer and more complicated is the process of digestion. 
Hence junket, which is simply flavored, coagulated milk, is 
one of the most digestible of desserts. As a rule, less sugar 
is relished in sickness than in health; an excess is apt to 
cause nausea. 

Dainty service is most important. Baked custards and 
junkets are usually best served in the original individual 
molds to avoid danger of breaking, or in case of junket, of 
becoming watery. Sauces should never be poured over pud- 
dings till the moment of serving. Care must be taken to 
see that cold desserts are thoroughly chilled; a lukewarm 
custard is frequently nauseating and always unappetizing. 



SOFT CUSTARDS 287 

SOFT CUSTARDS 

SOFT CUSTARD NO. I, 192 CAIORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % cup milk. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Beat yolk, add salt and sugar 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Pour back into 
top of double boiler and stir constantly until it looks creamy 
or it coats the spoon and the foam has disappeared; then re- 
move immediately from hot water. Cool and add flavoring 
desired; vanilla, orange or lemon extract. 

Note. — If custard curdles, place saucepan over cold water 
and beat until smooth. 

This custard is usually used for pudding sauces. 

SOFT CTTSTARD NO. II, 410 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup milk. Yg saltspoon salt. 

2 eggs. % teaspoon vanilla or grating of 
2 tablespoons sugar. nutmeg. 

Eeserve one egg white for meringue. Blend according to 
Soft Custard No. I. This custard is usually used as a 
foundation for puddings. 

CTTSTARD SUITABLE FOR A DIABETIC, 230 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1 egg. Speck salt. 

Sweetina to taste. 1 cup milk. 

Scald the milk and add the liquid Sweetina to taste; pour 
on to the well-beaten eggs. Cook and flavor as in preceding 
rule for soft custard or bake according to Cup Custard. 

KERIN6UE, 110 CALORIES i 

1 egg white. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Speck salt. Lemon or orange juice. 

Beat the egg until stiff and dry; add the salt, sugar and 
Jemon juice to taste. Beat very little after adding the sugfr. 

* Without lemon and orange juice. 



288 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

FLOATING ISLAND, 506 CALORIES 

Chill Soft Custard No. II; pour into serving dish and put 
meringue on top. 

ORANGE CUSTARD 

Peel, slice and remove seeds of oranges, put into serving 
dish. Chill Soft Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put 
meringue on top. 

BANANA CUSTARD 

Peel bananas and slice very thin with silver knife; put 
into serving dish and flavor with lemon juice. ChiU Soft 
Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

ALUOND PUDDING 

Line a glass dish with slices of stale cake and put in some 
saked almonds. Pour a little sherry wine on the cake. Chill 
Soft Custard No. II and pour over. Put meringue on top, 
with some salted almonds in it. 

PEACH CUSTARD 

Put into serving dish alternate layers of stale cake and 
slices of fresh or canned peaches. Chill Soft Custard No. II, 
pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

APPLE CUSTARD 
Cool baked apples and put in serving dish. Heap meringue 
on top and brown slightly in the oven. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. I. 

BAKED CUSTARDS 

BAKED OR CUP CUSTARD, 319 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milki 1^2 tablespoon sugar. 

' 1 egg. Va saltspoon sal^. 

Flavoring to taste — ntftmeg, cinnamon, vanilla, or lemon extract. 

Scald the milk ; beat egg, add sugar and salt and pour on 
gradually the scalded milk. Flavor to taste and pour into 
custard cups; place in deep pan and pour boiling water 



BAKED CUSTARDS 389 

sround until it almost reaches the top of cups. Bake in 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. If cinnamon is used 
for flavor, put one-half square inch into the milk when scald- 
ing. 

Note. — To test when dolie, dip a pointed knife into water 
and plunge into the middle of the custard. If it looks set 
and the knife comes out clear, the custard is done; if milky, 
it is not cooked enough. If cooked too long the custard will 
curdle. 

BAKED CUSTARB NO. II, 262 CALOBIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milki , 1/3 saltspoon salt. 

1 cgg^ Nutmeg. 

1^4 tstblespoon sugar. l^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Blend according to Baked Custard No. I. 

The smaller quantity of milk makes a little firmer custard. 

WHITE CTTSTARI), 163 CALORIES 

1 egg white. % saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. % cup rich milk. 

Beat white of egg until very light; add sugar and salt 
and pour on gradually the milk. Flavor with vanilla, orange 
or lemon extract. Bake in cups set in pan of boiling water 
in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. When firm set 
on ice and serve cold. This may be taken by patient when the 
yolk of egg is prohibited. 

CHOCOLATE CTTSTARS, 250 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's choc- 2 egg yolks, 
olate. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

2 tablespoons milk. Speck salt. 

6 tablespoons rich milk. 

Grate chocolate and mix with the two tablespoons milk; 
stir over the fire until smooth, add the rich milk, the well- 
beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard cups set 
in pan of hot water (nearly to the top). Cook until custard 
is set. Serve hot or cold. 



290 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — The chocolate and yolk of egg contain a large 
amount of fat. Do not serve to a patient who cannot digest 
it. 

MALTED HILK CXTSTARD, 107 CALORIES 
(Individual Itule.) 
1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup hot water. 

Milk. Salt. 

1 egg yolk. 

Mix the Malted Milk powder with enough of the hot 
water to make a smooth paste, add remainder of water and 
pour it gradually on to the well-beaten yolk. Butter custard 
cup, pour in the mixture and let it stand in a pan of boil- 
ing water in a moderate oven until custard is set. 

BAKED OABAKEL CUSTARD, 293 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. A few drops of vanilla. 
Speck salt. 

Scald the milk. Put the sugar in a small saucepan, place 
over heat and stir constantly until the sugar is melted and 
a light brown color. Add milk and pour over the slightly- 
heaten egg. Add flavoring. Strain into buttered custard 
cups, place in a pan of hot water and bake until firm in a 
slow oven. 

FEFTONOIDS CUSTARD, 452 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons of Dry Peptonoids Yolks of 2 eggs. 
Soluble. 2 teaspoons of sugar. 

2 tablespoons of milk. A pinch- of salt. 

C tablespoons of thin cream. 

Dissolve Dry Peptonoids Soluble in the milk. Add the 
well-beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard 
cups, set in pan of hot water, cook until set. 

WHIPS AND SOTJITLES 

Dainty and nutritious ways to serve the uncooked and 
slightly cooked white of eggs. 



WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 291 

rRXriT WHIP, 125-150 CALOEIES 

(Two Servings.) 
Any fruit, fresh, canned or dried (properly prepared), or 
jellies may be used. 

2 to 4 tablespoons fruit pulp. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 
White 1 egg. (or to taste). 

Lemon juice. 

Prepare the fruit pulp by scraping, grating or rubbing 
through a strainer. Beat the white of egg on platter until 
stiff. Add pulp, sugar and lemon juice to taste, and beat 
until very stiff. Heap in center of serving dish and pour 
Soft Custard No. I around it. 

Note. — The apple is a favorite fruit for these whips. 
The juice of fresh fruits in season used with the raw white 
of egg makes an appetizing as well as a very nutritious lunch 
for the sick. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP, 327 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
1 cup fresh strawberr'ies. 1/3 cup powdered sugar. 

Whites 2 eggs. 

Wash and hull the strawberries and mash slightly. Beat 
whites of eggs until stiff, add sugar and berries; beat until 
very stiff, using a broad bowl and a wire egg-beater, beating 
with a long, steady stroke. Pile lightly in a glass dish and 
serve with white or sponge cake. 

GRAPE WHIP, 1445 CAIORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
% cup Welch's grape juice. 5 tablespoons sugar. 

White 1 egg. 1 cup double cream. 

Beat the white of egg until foamy, add the grape juice 
mixed with the sugar and, lastly, the cream, then beat with 
a whip churn. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on 
a sieve. Pour the unwhipped mixture into small, high glasses, 
and pile the whip on top. Serve cold. 



292 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

OMELET SOUFFLE, 230 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 
Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 
2 tablespoons lemon juice. Strawberry or fruit jam. 

To the well-beaten yolk add the sugar, salt, lemon juice 
and rind. Beat the whites to the stiffest possible froth, then 
cut and fold into the yolk. Have ready a small baking dish, 
buttered and spread with a layer of the fruit ; pour the omelet 
over it and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Test as for baked custard. Serve at once. 

Note. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

CirSTARS SOUFFLE, 297 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% tablespoon butter. Yolk 1 egg. 

I'/i tablespoons flour. 1% tablespoons sugar. 

Yi cup scalded milk. White 1 egg. 

Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalding milk. 
Cook thoroughly, pour on to the well-beaten yolk, add sugar 
and cool. Fold into mixture the well-beaten white. Turn 
into buttered custard cups and bake about fifteen minutes, 
ujitil firm — determined by pressing with the finger. Take 
from oven and serve at once, or it will fall. Serve with 
Foamy Sauce. 

LEMON SOUFFLE, 275 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
Yolk 1 egg. l^ cup sugar. 

Juice 14 lemon. White 1 egg. 

Thoroughly beat yolk, add sugar, slowly, beating con- 
stantly; add lemon juice. Fold in the white beaten until 
dry. Pour into buttered custard cups, set in pan of hot 
water and bake twenty minutes or until firm, testing by press- 
ing with finger. Serve plain or with Foamy Sauce. 

' Without jam. 



JUNKET 293 

PEACH UERINOITE, 210 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup yellow peaches. Bread crumbs. 

Sugar to taste. White 1 egg. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 

Stew peaches in a very little water, sweeten to taste and 
stir in the well-beaten yolk. Butter a pudding dish and 
cover bottom with fine bread crumbs, put in the peaches and 
bake fifteen minutes. Cover with meringue made of white 
of egg and the powdered sugar; brown slightly in the oven. 
Serve cold. 

JUNKET ' 

Junket is a healthful and dainty dessert made simply of 
pure milk, and containing enough of the active principle 
of rennet found in the Junket Tablet to coagulate the milk. 
It is nutritious and has the added advantage of being easily 
digested. 

Milk or cream that has been boiled, sterilized, condensed 
or evaporated cannot be used in making junket, and care 
must be taken not to heat the milk more than lukewarm, as 
hot milk spoils the action of the tablet. _: 

For diabetic patients Sweetina may be used as a substitute 
for sugar in these recipes. 

PLAIN JTTNKET, 296 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
% teaspoon brandy or wine. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add sugar and flavoring; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Pour mixture immediately into sherbet cups or cham- 
pagne glasses, partly fill. Stand in warm room undisturbed 
until firm like jelly, then put on ice to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream heaped on top, with one-half teaspoon bright 
jelly for garnish. 

1 Without bread crumbs and suear. 



294 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — For variety, whole strawberries or raspberries may 
be served with junket, or chopped English walnuts with the 
whipped cream. For garnish, candied cherries may be used. 

If desired, the brandy and sugar may be omitted in making 
junket and served plain, with suga,r and a grating of nutmeg. 

CUSTARD JUNKET, 512 CALORIES 

(Two- Servings.) 
Yo c"P hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. % teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons sugar. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 
% cup lukewarm milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

Beat th^ egg, add two tablespoons sugar; pour on grad- 
ually the hot milk. Cook in top of double boiler; stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; take at once from the fire and cool. 
Mix two tablespoons sugar with the lukewarm milk, add to 
the cooled custard and blend thoroughly. AVhen lukewarm 
add vanilla and the tablet dissolved in cold water; finish as 
for Plain Junket. 

COCOA JUNKET, 280 CAIORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon cocoa. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
2 tablespoons boiling water. 3 drops vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix the cocoa, sugar, boiling water, and cook over heat 
and rub to a smooth paste; add gradually the fresh cool 
milk.. Heat until lukewarm (not more), add vanilla and 
then tablet dissolved in the cold water. Finish as for Plain 
Junket and serve with sweetened cream, or a Soft Custard. 

COFFEE JUNKET, 289 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons boiled coffee. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

1 scant cup milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the coffee and sugar; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Finish as for Plain Junket. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING OR BLANC MANGE 295 



CORNSTAECH PUDDING OR BLANC MANGE 

Starch of various kinds is used in milk puddings. For 
children, invalids and dyspeptics such puddings are admirable. 
They must be thoroughly cooked, that the action of the heat 
may affect the starch. The combination of starch and milk 
gives a wholesome nutritive food, and the addition of eggs 
increases the food value. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING, 329 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

1% tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

1% tablespoons sugar. Vanilla. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar 
and salt thoroughly; add slowly the scalded milk, stirring 
constantly. Eeturn to top of boiler and cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly for the first five or six minutes, then 
occasionally. Eemove from fire and while very hot fold in 
lightly, but thoroughly, the well-beaten white of egg. When 
partially cooled add flavoring to taste; put into wet cups 
or molds, cool and then stand for several hours on ice. Ee- 
move from molds. Serve with a soft custard, mashed fresh 
berries, or whipped cream. Vary the pudding by adding a 
little Walter Baker's chocolate, melted. 

PINEAPPLE CREAU, 340 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. ■> Speck salt. 

1% tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg. 

11/2 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons grated pineapple. 

Follow directions for Cornstarch Pudding, adding the 
pineapple instead of vanilla. Pour into individual molds 
and serve cold with cream. 

CORNSTARCH FRTTIT JELLY, 166 CALORIES 1 

(Two Servings.) 
1 cup raspberry juice. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Sugar. 
1 Without sugar. 



296 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Sweeten the juice to taste and heat to boiling point. Make 
a smooth paste of the cornstarch and a little cold water, add 
slowly to the juice and cook thirty minutes in top of double 
boiler, stirring constantly at first. Pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold ^xh. whipped cream and fresh, whole berries. 

MALTED UILE BLANC IIAK6E, 280 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted Speck salt. 

Milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons powdered arrow- 1% cups boiling water, 
root. %, teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix the arrowroot and Malted Milk powder with a little 
cold wajt^r into a smooth paste. Add the boiling water slowly, 
cook in double boiler about twenty minutes, or until arrow- 
root is thoroughly cooked, add vanilla and pour into cold, 
wet molds. Chill and serve with Soft Custard or whipped 
cream. 

Note. — One teaspoon powdered coffee may be added to 
above before cooking, for Coffee Blanc Mange. ^' 

NUTRITIOUS WHEAT PUDDING, 252 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 cup milk. White 1 egg. 

2% tablespoons flour. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Blend flour with a little of the cold milk. Scald remainder 
of milk and add flour mixture; cook thoroughly; add salt 
and flavoring and fold in the white of egg beaten slightly. 
Put into cold, wet mold, cool and set in ice box to harden. 
Serve with Soft Custard or whipped cream, or sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and pour over it one-fourth cup of fresh 
fruit juice or crushed fruit. 

GLUTEN PUDDING (FOR THE DIABETIC), 861 CALORIES 

o ( Six Servings. ) 

3 tablespoons Gum Gluten Flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 pint hot milk. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk. Cinnamon. 

1 egg. Sweetina. 



mCE PUDDINGS 297 

Blend Gum Gluten Flour with a little of the cold milk, 
add gradually to one pint hot milk. Cook thoroughly. Beat 
egg, add cold milk, the cooked mixture and salt, cinnamon 
and Sweetina to taste. Bake thirty minutes. A little fruit 
improves the flavor. Serve with whipped cream. 

IRISH UOSS JELLT, 677 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
% cup Irish moss. Juice 1 lemon or orange. 

2 cups boiling water. % cup sugar. 

4 figs. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss. Put it into the boil- 
ing water, add the figs cut into strips and simmer about 
twenty minutes, or until it is very thick when dropped on 
a cold plate. Add lemon juice and sugar. Strain into a 
cold, wet mold. 

IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE, 296 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
% cup Irish moss. 14 saltspoon salt. 

1% cups cold water. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

1% cups milk. 

Soak the moss in cold water about fifteen minutes. Ee- 
move from water, pick over and put into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook about twenty minutes, or until it thickens 
when dropped on a cold plate. Add salt, strain and flavor. 
Strain again and turn into small cold, wet molds. Chill and 
serve with cream and sugar or sliced fruit. 

RICE PUDDINGS 

BOILED RICE, 100 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
2 tablespoons rice. % teaspoon salt, 

2 cups boiling water. 

Wash rice thoroughly and add gradually to the boiling 
salted water, care being taken that the water does not stop 
boiling. Boil uncovered twenty minutes, or until grains 



298 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

are soft. Turn into a strainer and pour over it one cup of 
hot water and drain, put in oven a few moments to dry, with 
oven door open. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream or 
as a pudding with cooked dates and whipped cream, or plain 
with Soft Custard. 

Note. — Keep rice well covered with water while cooking. 

Dates. — Cut in small pieces, add a little water to partly 
cover and cook until soft. Simmer and do not stir. 

STEAMED RICE, 265 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup rice. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pick over the rice, wash in three or four waters; put it 
with the boiling water and salt in upper part of double 
boiler. Do not stir while cooking. Steam one hour, or until 
the grains are tender. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream 
or as a pudding with Soft Custard, or with sugar and cream. 

Note. — A few dates cut in narrow strips may be added 
just before serving if desired. Part milk may be used in 
the cooking. 

PEACHES AND RICE 

Serve boiled or steamed rice with sections of fresh, juicy 
peaches, or with fresh berries. Serve with sugar and cream. 

SOUTHERN SNOWBALLS, 367 CALORIES 

(^Individual Rule.) 
% cup rice. ^4 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Pick over rice, wash in several waters and put with milk 
and salt in top of double boiler. Cook until the milk is ab- 
sorbed and rice is tender. Do not stir while cooking. Dip 
egg cups in cold water and pack with rice carefully but 
tightly, turn out on serving dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, put a candied cherry or a strawberry on top, and serve 
with whipped cream. 



EICE PUDDINGS 299 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING, 74G CALORIES 

(Individual Eule.) 
1 cup steamed rice. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup scalded milk. % saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. i^ cup stoned raisins 

1 egg. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat egg, add sugar and salt 
and pour on slowly the scalding milk. Put in pudding dish 
with rice and raisins. Put bits of butter on top and bake in 
a moderate oven until custard is set. Serve with Hard 
Sauce. 

Xote. — Do not use raisins in case of bowel trouble. 

RICE UERINGUE, 526 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
% cup cold cooked rice. Egg yolk. 

1 cup scalded milk. Vanilla. 

2% tablespoons sugar. 1 egg white. 

% saltspoon salt. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Blend rice and milk and soak until soft. Beat the yolk, 
add sugar and salt and gradually the hot milk and rice. 
Cook until it thickens like soft custard. Add flavoring to 
taste and pour into pudding dish or custard cups. Make a 
meringue of the white of egg and powdered sugar, cover the 
padding and brown slightly in the oven. 

CREAH OF RICE PUDDING, 657 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
^/4 cup rice (well washed). 1 saltspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 pint milk. 

Mix all ingredients in a small baking dish. Bake two 
hours, slowly at first until rice is softened and thickened in 
the milk. Cut the crust several times, stirring to the bottom 
gently. The crust will then dissolve in the pudding, giving 
it a creamy color. Then let it brown slightly. 



300 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 

TAPIOCA CREAU, 483 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 
11/2 tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
3 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 

Yg saltspoon salt. Flavoring. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; 
add slowly to the scalding milk, return to double boiler and 
cook fifteen minutes. .Add the yolk and white of the egg, 
beaten separately. Remove from fire and add flavoring de- 
sired. Serve plain or with any fresh fruit in season. 

PLAIN TAPIOCA, 451 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1% tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Vi cup raisins. 

Salt. Nutmeg. 

Scald milk in double boiler and gradually add the tapioca 
and sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Add salt, nutmeg to taste 
and seeded raisins. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Note. — Eaisins should never be used in bowel trouble. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA, 718 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
14 cup Minute tapioca. IVi cups boiling water. 

% cup sugar. 1 cup canned grated pineapple.- 

Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler until clear, about fifteen min- 
utes. Pour over the grated pineapple and decorate the top 
of the pudding with currant jelly. 

APPLE TAPIOCA, 345 CALORIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 
14 cup Minute tapioca. 1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 3 tart apples. 

Speck salt. Sugar, nutmeg. 

1 Without extra sugar. 



TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 301 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water, and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Pour this 
onto the apples, which have been pared and cored and the 
holes filled with sugar and a little nutmeg. Cover the dish 
and bake one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA, 218 CAIORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1% tablespoons Minute tapioca, y^ eup raspberry juice. 
1% tablespoons sugar. Juice % lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add rasp- 
berry and lemon juice. When it begins to jelly, beat smooth 
■with a spoon. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

SATE TAPIOCA, 660 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 
1% tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded inilk. 
3 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 

% saltspoon salt. 14 cup chopped dates. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; add gradually the hot milk 
and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add the beaten' 
egg yolk and cook three minutes longer. Stir in the dates. 
Make a meringue of the white of egg, heap it on top and 
brown delicately in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE OR COCOA BLANC MANGE, 827 CALORIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 

14 cup Minute tapioca. 1% cups liot chocolate or cocoa. 

14 cup sugar. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; pour on gradually the hot 
cocoa and cook in double boiler about twenty minutes. Ee- 
move from heat, add vanilla and pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold, plain or with whipped cream or Soft Custard. 

> Calculated with chocolate, recipe page 135. 



302 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



BREAD PUDDINGS 

The principle of employing farinaceous matter which has 
already been subjected to heat (so that a considerable con- 
version of starch has gone on before the human salivary 
diastase comes into play) is carried out in practice in the 
form of bread puddings. 

PLAIN BKEAD PUDDING, 900 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1 cup stale bread. 2 tablespoons sugar (to taste). 

1 cup milk. % saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. 14 cup seeded raisins. 

1 egg- 
Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg and add sugar 
and salt; pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cut the 
bread into one-half inch cubes and add with the raisins. 
Pour into well-buttered pudding dish, put bits of butter on 
top and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 
Serve with Hard Sauce or cream and sugar. 
Note. — Do not serve raisins in bowel trouble. 

ORANGE BREAD PUDDING, 710 CALORIES 1 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread. 2 oranges. 

% cup milk. Sugar to taste. 

2 eggs. 

Soak bread. in the milk until soft and beat lightly with 
fork; add the grated rind of one orange and the juice of 
both; sweeten. Beat the whites very light and add to above 
mixture. Pour into custard cups and cook as for baked cus- 
tard — about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve plain or with 
Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Omit orange rind if it will interfere medicinally. 

1 Without sugar. 



BREAD PUDDINGS 303 

LEMON BREAD f USSING, 543 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

% eup soft bread crumbs. % tablespoon butter. 

Yolk 1 egg. Grated rind Vi lemon. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg yolk, add sugar 
and salt and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Add the 
bread crumbs and grated lemon rind ; pour into^ a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes, or until set like baked custard. 

Make a meringue by beating the white of egg very stiff, 
adding two tablespoons powdered sugar and juice of one- 
fourth lemon. Cover the pudding with it and set in the 
oven till a dainty brown. 

Note. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

JELLY BREAD PUDDING 

Prepare the same as for Lemon Bread Pudding, omitting 
the lemon rind and Juice. Spread any tart jelly over pudding 
when baked and add meringue. 



CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING, 904 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread crumbs. 2% tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

1 ounce (or square) Walter Speck salt. 

Baker's unsweetened chocolate. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Melt chocolate over hot water 
and add to it the sugar and salt. To the soaked crumbs add 
the chocolate mixture, the beaten egg and vanilla. Put into 
buttered custard cups and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minute's, or until custard is set. Serve hot, plain or 
with Hard Sauce. 



304 NUTBITIOUS DESSERTS 

CHEESE PUDDING (FOR THE DIABETIC), 1400 CALORIES 
(Two Servings.) 

2 eggs. Speck soda. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup cheese. Salt. 

1 cup Gum Gluten bread crumbs. Cayenne. 

Dry the bread, roll and soak a short time in the milk. 
Beat the eggs lightly, add the milk and crumbs, grated cheese, 
salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Beat well, pour into but- 
tered pan and bake in a hot oven half an hour. Serve im- 
mediately, as five minutes' delay will spoil. 

GLUTEN BROWN BETTY (FOR THE DIABETIC), 222 CALORIES i 

3 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. Sugar. 

1 large sour apple. Cinnamon. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp; onto this put one-half apple cooked 
as for apple sauce or raw cut in thin slices or chopped; 
season with sugar, speck of cinnamon and bits of butter. 
Add another layer of crumbs (one Biscuit Crisp), then the 
remaining half of apple and seasoning, lastly crumbs. Place 
bits of butter on top, put in slow oven, and bake. 

CRACKER PUDDINGS 

CRACKER PUDDING, 397 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1% soda crackers. Yolk 1 egg. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Ys teaspoon salt. 

EoU the crackers and soak in the milk. Beat yolks and 
sugar well together and add to pudding with salt. Bake 
one-half hour. Make a meringue with the whites of the 
eggs, pile lightly on top and put in oven till golden brown. 
Serve hot. 

' Without sugar. 



PUDDING SAUCES 305 

ENGIISH WALNUTS AND BISCTTIT CRISPS (FOR THE DIA- 
BETIC), 154 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
2 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. 4 walnut halves. 

2 hot tablespoons thin cream. Parsley. 
Yi teaspoon butter. 

Butter Biscuit Crisps and place in oven until well heated 
through. Dip the nuts in melted butter and cook, turning 
often until heated. Cover each Crisp with one tablespoon of 
hot cream and serve two nuts on each Crisp; garnish with 
sprig of parsley. 

Note. — Buttered Biscuit Crisps may be served heated and 
served with ground nut meats over top. 

PUDDING SAUCES 

HARD SAUCE, 650 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

3 tablespoons butter. % white of egg. 

6 tablespoons powdered sugar. % tablespoon cream. 
Jfutmeg. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually. When light and 
creamy add the unbeaten white of egg and the cream, a drop 
or two at a time. Season highly. Heap on serving dish and 
cool. 

■BOAUY SAUCE, 863 CALORIES 
(Three Servings.) 

14 cup butter. % egg. 

% cup powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon wine. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, the well-beaten egg 
and the wine. Heat over hot water, beating constantly. 
Serve immediately. 

TO WHIP CREAM 

i/a cup thick cream (40%) =432 Calories. 

Do not have creani too thick; season with sugar and any 

flavoring desired ; put in bowl and set bowl in another utensil 

containing a little cold water and ice. Beat cream with Dover 



306 ^ NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

egg-beater until stiff enough to keep its form. Set on ice to 
keep cold. 

Note. — Do not beat too long or it may turn to butter. To 
one-half cup thick cream add three tablespoons milk. 

WHIPPED CREAM NO. II. 
1 egg white = 10 to 15 Calories. 
Follow the above recipe, and add the white of one egg 
beaten stiff, folding it into the stiflBy-beaten cream. 

FRUIT SAUCE, 75 CAIORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
6 tablespoons fruit juice. % teaspoon arrowroot or corn- 

starch. 

Blend starch with a little cold water and pour into the 
hot fruit juice. Boil two or three minutes. Sweeten if de- 
sired. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

See chapter " Gelatin " for recipe. Page 210. 
FBOZEN DESSEET 

ICE CREAK — SHERBET — ICES 

Frozen dishes not only constitute an acceptable form of 
serving nutriment, but often are a means of furnishing addi- 
tional liquid and relieving thirst. Ices and sherbets made 
with fruits and water, have a dietetic value similar to acid 
heverages. Frozen cream, milk, junkets, custards, etc., have 
the same nutritive value as the same foods served without 
freezing. ' 

In giving all very cold dishes, care must be taken not to 
interfere with the digestion of other foods. Chilling the 
mouth hinders the formation and activity of saliva; chilling 
the stomach retards gastric digestion. The latter effect can 
be avoided by eating ice-cold food very slowly, so that it is 
partially warmed before reaching the stomach. Frozen foods 
should not be given when ptyalin digestion is especially im- 
portant. 



ICE CREAM 30r 

General Rules for Freezing. Ice (or snow) and salt are 
required for the process of freezing. The salt melts the ice, 
and in melting absorbs heat from the mixture, thus causing it 
to freeze. The finer the ice, the more quickly the freezing 
will be accomplished. In packing a freezer allow three level 
measures of ice to one of salt. This proportion is found best 
for fine-grained mixture. The can should not be filled more 
than three-fourths full, as the liquid expands in freezing, and 
if over-crowded, the .cream will become coarse-grained and the 
cover may be pushed up allowing the salt water to get in. 

Freezing in Small Amounts. Put mixture to be frozen 
into a water-tight baking powder can, or a small tin pail with 
cover, and stand in large pail or bowl. Pack the ice and salt 
alternately under and around it (ice pounded fine), using 
one part salt to three parts ice. Eemove cover, and beat 
•mixture with Dover egg-beater until foamy, replace cover and 
turn can, or pail, back and forth; remove cover occasionally 
and scrape the frozen mixture from side of can, and beat 
thoroughly with fork. The mixture will freeze in twenty 
minutes. When frozen, place a narrow strip of cloth, dipped 
in melted beef fat or lard, around the outside of cover to keep 
out the salt water. Eepack in ice, or ice and salt, and cover 
well until wanted. 

Serve frozen dishes in sherbet, champagne, or high glasses ; 
pass on small plate covered with doily, and at the side of the 
plate a small cake, wafer or a few orange straws may be 
added ; a rose will add to the attractiveness. 

ICE CREAM 

VANILIA ICE CEEAM, 310 CAIORIES i 
(Individual Rule.) 
1/2 cup thin cream or % cup % teaspoon vanilla. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. , 

11/2 tablespoons sugar. 

Blend all the ingredients; when sugar is dissolved, freeze 
in a small pail according to general directions. 

1 Calculated with thin cream. 



308 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM, 353 CALOBIESl 

(Individual Rule.) 
% eup thin cream or 14 cup 1% tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and %, cup milk. 1 tablespoon boiling water. 
Vi square Walter Baker's chooo- ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

late. Speck salt. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling water, 
sugar and hot cream. Cool, add vanilla and salt and freeze 
in small pail according to general directions. 

COFFEE ICE CBEAU, 352 CALORIES 1 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or % cup 1% tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 <^"P niilk. Speck salt. 
1 tablespoon ground coflfee. 14 ^^^P milk- 

Mix coifee and milk, put into double boiler and cook five 
minutes. Strain through cheese-cloth and strainer; add 
sugar, salt and cream. Cool and freeze in small pail, accord- 
ing to general directions. 

JUNKET ICE CREAK, 690 CALORIES 1 
(Two Servings.) 
% cup cream. % Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

% cup milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

214 tablespoons sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the sugar and vanilla; 
■when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Allow it to stand in warm room until firm, then beat 
thoroughly and turn into small pail and freeze according to 
<jreneral Eule. 

Note. — A variety may be made by adding two teaspoons 
cocoa dissolved in a little boiling water. Add to mixture 
before adding the tablet. Serve the creams plain or with 
whole strawberries, etc. 

Note. — The junket improves the body or consistency of 
any cream. 

^ Calculated with thin cream. 



ICE CREAM 30» 

GRAPE JUICE ICE CREAU, 490 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream. % cup sugar. 

14 cup Welch's grape juice. 

Scald one-half cup of the cream and add the sugar. Cool, 
add remainder of cream and the grape juice and freeze accord- 
ing to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM, 356 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or i^ cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and V4 cup milk. Speck salt. 
% cup strawberries. 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar and allow them to 
stand five minutes. Add the cream and milk and freeze in. 
email pail according to general directions. 

Note. — The berries may be mashed and strained through 
cheese-cloth. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAU, 363 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or % cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
Vi cup raspberries. 

Mash the raspberries and strain through cheese-cloth. Add 
cream, milk and sugar. Freeze in small pail according to 
general directions. 

PEACH ICE CREAM, 390 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
14 cup thin cream or % cup 14 cup peaches, 
heavy cream and 14 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Mix peaches and sugar and press through a potato-ricer 
or sieve. Scald cream and milk. Cool and add peaches and 
sugar. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 



310 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CABAHEL ICE GREAU, 340 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup thin cream or % cup I14 tablespoons boiling water. 

thick cream and 14 cup milk. % teaspoon vanilla. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Speck salt. 

Into saucepan place the sugar and stir constantly until 
melted. Add water and boil until reduced to one and one- 
half tablespoon. Add cream very slowly, vanilla, salt, and 
freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAU NO. II, 5942 CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 
1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. Speck salt. 

7 tablespoons flour. 1 quart cream. 

1 scant cup sugar for caramel. 

Scald the milk; mix one cup sugar, flour and salt, add the 
eggs and beat all together until perfectly smooth and light. 
Add the scalding milk gradually, beating until very smooth. 
Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 

While cooking, prepare caramel. Put the second cup of 
sugar in saute pan, and cook until melted and a delicate 
brown; add gradually the custard, stirring constantly; strain 
and cool. Add the cream (which has been scalded and 
cooled) and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — This may be used for vanilla ice-cream by omit- 
ting the caramel and using one tablespoon vanilla and enough 
of the second cup of sugar to sweeten. 

HALTED UILE ICE CREAU, 3900 CALORIES 1 

(Ten Servings.) 
% pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 pint cream. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

1 quart water. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

White 1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, sugar and boiling water, stir- 
ling until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate and 
cook until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla, cool and freeze. 

1 Thick cream. 



ICE CREAM 311 

"When partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg, and 
finish freezing. 

N"ote. — If strawberry or other flavor is desired, it may be 
used in place of vanilla. 

PEPTONOISS ICE CREAM, 1274 CALORIES 

4 tablespoons Dry Peptonoids % pint thin cream. 

Soluble. 1 oz. chocolate. 

% cup sugar. 14 tablespoon of vanilla. 

1 pint of water. White of 1 egg. 

Mix Dry Peptonoids Soluble, sugar and boiling water. 
Stir until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate. Cook 
until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla; cool and freeze. 
"When partially frozen, add well-beaten white of egg. 

FROZEN CTJSTARS, 349 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
1 cup hot milk 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. Vi teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt and gradually the 
scalded milk. Cool, add flavoring and freeze. 

HOT COCOA SAUCE POR ICE CREAM, 1035 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
114 cups water. 2 tablespoons Walter Baker's co- 

1 cup sugar. coa. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Boil together the water and sugar for two minutes; add 
the arrowroot mixed with a little cold water, stir for a mo- 
ment, then boil until clear. Add the cocoa, which has been 
mixed with a little hot water, and the salt, and boil three 
minutes longer. Eemove from the fire and add the vanilla. 



313 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

SHERBET 

lEIION HILK SHERBET, 299 CALOBIES 
(Individual Eule.) 
^^ cup milk. Juice of y^ lemon. 

14 cup sugar. 1 drop lemon extract. 

Blend all the ingredients and freeze in small pail accord- 
ing to general directions. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET, NO. 11, 2390 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
1 quart milk. Juice 2 lemons. 

1 pint sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

To the lemon juice add the sugar, milk and extract. 
Preeze immediately in large freezer. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET, 357 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. 14 cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. To the juice add sugar and 
milk. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET NO. II, 2940 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 2 cups sugar. 

2 quarts strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. Add sugar and milk. Freeze 
in large freezer. 

CLAU SHERBET, 128 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup milk. Speck paprika. 

Vi cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Eule. Serve in 
small dainty glasses with a teaspoon of unsweetened whipped 
cream on top. The milk and clam taken in this way are 
often more acceptable to the patient than when served in 
liquid form. 



SHERBET 313 

Note. — The paprika may be omitted if condiments are not 
desirable. 

HALTED HOLS. SHERBET, 2148 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) ' 
Vs pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

3 pints water. White 1 egg. 

Make a smooth, paste of the malted milk powder and a 
little of the water, then add the rest of the water gradually, 
the sugar, vanilla and the chocolate grated, Freeze. When 
partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg and finish 
freezing. 

GRAPE SHERBET, 326S CALORIES 

(Ten Servings.) 
3 cups Welch's grape juice. 3 cups sugar. 

1 quart water. White 2 eggs. 

Blend the grape juice, water and sugar. Partly freeze. 
Beat the whites of eggs lightly, add two tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar; add to sherbet and continue freezing until hard. 
Eemove dasher and allow it to stand for one hour to ripen. 
Pack carefully. 

GRAPE AUBROSIA, 5iM3 CALORIES 

(Twelve Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 1 pint Welch's grape juice. 

2 quarts water. 1 can grated pineapple. 
Z% cups sugar. Juice 3 lemons. 
Whites 4 eggs. 

Mix together milk, water, sugar and fruit and partially 
freeze. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs and continue 
freezing until hard. 

ICES 

ORANGE ICE, 252 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Juice 1% oranges. % cup sugar. 



314 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Mix together all the ingredients and freeze in small pail 
according to general directions. 

ORANGE ICE NO. II, 990 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
2 tablespoons shredded gelatin. 1 eup sugar. 
^/2 cup cold water. 1 cup orange juice. 

1% Clips boiling water. Juice 1 lemon. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water twenty minutes; add boil- 
ing water; when gelatin is dissolved add the sugar, orange 
and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

ORANGE ICE NO. Ill, f922 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 
1 pint orange juice. Grated rind 1 orange. 

Juice 2 lemons^ 1 quart water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes; add fruit juice 
and rind of orange. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — Do not use orange rind if it will ' interfere me- 
dicinally. 

LEMON ICE, 257 CALORIES 
(Individual Rule.) 
14 cup water. 4 tablespoons sugar. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Mix all the ingredients and freeze in small pail according 
to general directions. 

FRUIT ICE, 497 CALORIES 
(Individual Hule.) 

% banana. Juice Va lemon. 

1/3 cup strawberries. % cup cold water. 

Juice 1/2 orange. % cup sugar. 

Put the fruit into a coarse strainer (or a potato-ricer), rub- 
bing it through into a large bowl. Pour the cold water 
through the strainer. Add the sugar, stir well and freeze 
according to general directions. 



ICES 315 

FINEAFFIK ICE, 242 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 
% cup Hawaiian grated pine- % cup water. 

apple. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Boil the water and sugar together about three minutes; 
add pineapple and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze ac- 
cording to general directions. 

GRAPE FEAPPE, 2175 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 
1 pint Welch's grape juice. 1 pint water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 2 cups sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes; cool 
and add the grape and lemon juice. Preeze to the con- 
sistency of a mush. Serve in tall glasses with sweetened 
whipped cream piled high on top. 

CLAM ERAPPE 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Speck paprika. 

%, cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Eule, to the con- 
sistency of a soft Water Ice. Serve in small punch-glasses 
or champagne glasses, with a teaspoon of unsweetened 
whipped cream on top — Delicious to serve for dinner in 
place of shellfish. 

SCAIFICON OP FRUIT 

A delicious scalpicon is made by cutting all kinds of fresh 
fruits into small pieces flavoring with wine or lemon juice 
and sugar. Put into serving dish with Orange or Lemon 
Ice on top. Serve individually in champagne glasses on a 
small plate with doily, with a single rose or other flower to 
correspond with color of ice. 

ORANGE STRAWS 

Peel the orange or lemon lengthwise ; cut into long, narrow 
strips, about one-fourth of an inch wide. Put into saucepan 



316 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

and cover with cold water and bring to the boiling point and 
pour ofiE the water; repeat this process iive or six times, or 
until the bitter taste of peel is extracted. Drain thoroughly 
and cover with granulated sugar. Cook until sugar is dis- 
solved and is thick and hardens in cold water. Then roll 
straws in granulated sugar and cool. Serve with Orange Ice, 
etc., or as a bon-bon. 



CHAPTEE XII 
CAKE 

The two methods of making cake light are by means of 
air and of gas. Air is introduced by beating, or by the 
addition of beaten eggs, as in sponge cake. When the light- 
ness is entirely dependent upon air, the whites and yolks of 
eggs should be beaten separately. 

Gas may be generated from within by combining, an acid 
and alkali and adding moisture; as cream of tartar and 
bicarbonate of soda; or sour milk and soda; or molasses and 
baking powder. The combination of both air and gas is 
used to raise butter cakes. 

General Directions for Cake Making. Before blending the 
cake, see that the oven is at right temperature for baking 
and the pans greased with a little beef fat and dredged with 
flour. The pan may be lined with paper to prevent cake 
burning on bottom when cake requires long baking or when 
the oven bakes too quickly on the bottom. Have all material 
at hand and measured. Use a round bottom bowl, and a 
wooden spoon for mixing; beat rather than stir the mixture 
and fold in ingredients. Put mixture in cake pans, slightly 
higher on the sides than in the center, as cake rises more 
quickly in the center. Layer cake takes a hotter oven than 
loaf cake. If cake is baked properly, it will rise, but not 
brown, during first quarter of the time required for baking; 
become slightly browned the second >quarter ; well browned 
during the third; and shrink from the pan during the 
fourth. 

If the oven is too hot, a crust will form over the top be- 
fore the cake has risen sufficiently and the cake will break 

317 



318 CAKE 

open on the top. If the oven is too cool the cake will rise too 
much and will be of coarse texture. 

Place pans in oven in such position that they may remain 
and do not move them before the third quarter of the baking. 
If the top of the cake should brown too quickly cover with 
a piece of light weight paper, slightly buttered on the one 
side and next to the cake. 

Cake is sufBciently baked when it shrinks slightly from 
the edge of the pan and feels firm to the touch; if when 
tested with a fine washed and heated knitting or darning 
needle and it comes out clear. In looking at cake do not 
open the oven door too wide and only for a moment, and 
care must be taken not to jar the door in closing. 

SPONGE CAKE, 1390 CALORIES 

4 eggs. 1% teaspoons Rumford's baking 

1 cup powdered sugar. powder. 

% cup bread flour. Rind and juice of Vz lemon. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 

Beat eggs separately, very light. To the yolks add the 
sugar and lemon, sift in carefully the flour blended with the 
baking powder and beat about five minutes. Then fold in 
the whites. Bake in a well-greased and floured angel cake 
tin in a moderate oven. Cake is done if when tested with a 
fine (washed) knitting needle it comes out clear, or when the 
cake shrinks from the pan. 

coil) WATER SPONGE CAKE, 1633 CALORIES 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking 
1 cup sugar. powder. 

6 tablespoons cold .water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
IVs cups bread 'flour. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately. To the yolks add 
the sugar and beat well ; add lemon juice and cold water ; sift 
flour and bakipg powder together three times and add grad- 
ually, beating' thoroughly. 

Pold in the well-beaten whites. Bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, ox shallow pan in a moderate oven. 



CAKE 319 

HOT WATEE SPONGE CAKE, 1460 CALORIES 

2 eggs. 1/^ saltspoon salt. 

1 cup sugar. i/^ teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup bread flour. % cup boiling water. 
ly^ teaspoons Kumford baking 

powder. 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar ; sift dry ingredients 
together and add gradually; add flavoring and beat well. 
Lastly add the boiling water, and bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan, in a moderate oven. 

PLAIN CAKE, 2230 CALOBIES 

2 eggs. 4 tablespoons butter. , 

% cup milk. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking 

1 cup sugar. powder. 

1% cups bread flour. 1 teaspoon flavoring or spices. 

Line the pan with buttered paper; separate eggs. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, add. the well-beaten yolks 
and flavoring. Add alternately the milk and the flour with 
the baking powder sifted in it. Beat well and fold in the 
stiffly-beaten whites. Put at once in a well-lined and greased 
pan, and bake in a hot oven about thirty minutes, or until it 
shrinks from the pan, or until a fine (washed) knitting needle 
comes out dry. 

The cake may be varied by adding one-fourth cup currants, 
or a few raisins and a little citron, or mixed spices, or a little 
melted chocolate. Before adding fruit to cake it should be 
slightly floured. 

GLUTEN NUT CAKE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 1436 CALORIES i 

1 tablespoon butter. % teaspoon Sweetina. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Salt and spices. 

Whites 2 eggs. 1 cup nut meats. 

% cup sour milk. Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Cream the butter, add the well-beaten yolks and Sweetina 
syrup, then the sour milk in which the soda has been blended. 
Add Gum Gluten Flour gradually to make a stiff batter; 

1 Without gluten flour. 



§20 CAKE 

season with salt and spices and add nut meats. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

BOILED PKOSTING, 853 CALORIES 

1 cup sugar. White 1 egg. 

14 teaspoon cream of tartar. % teaspoon flavoring. 

% cup cold water. 

Boil the sugar, cream of tartar and cold water without stir- 
ring until it threads from spoon, and gradually pour on to 
the well-beaten white? of egg. Add any flavoring to taste. 
Beat until thick and spread quickly. A little chocolate may 
be added for variety, or chopped nuts or eocoanut, etc. 

HARGTJERITE WAFERS 
Take " Long Branch " wafer crackers and spread with 
plain-boiled frosting, or add nuts, chocolate, eocoanut, etc. 
Put in oven a moment to dry, but not brown. Dainty to 
serve with Ice Cream, Ices and Sherbet. 

GINGER BREAD, !2600 CALORIES 

1 egg. % cup boiling water. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

7 tablespoons melted butter. 1% cups bread flour or 

1 teaspoon soda. 2% cups pastry flour. 

Beat egg in mixing bowl ; add molasses, melted butter, and 
gradually one cup of flour. To the remaining flour add the 
soda and ginger, sift and add to mixture; beat well and add 
the boiling water. Bake in well-greased and floured gem tins, 
or shallow pan, in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Test 
with 4 fine (washed) darning needle ; when it comes out clear, 
or the cake shrinks from the pan the cake is done. 



PAET III 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

DIET IN" DISEASE 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITION'S 



CHAPTEE XIII 
HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

GENERAL TYPES OF DIET USED IN HOSPITALS 

LIQUII) OR TLTJID FOODS 

Acid, starchy and miscellaneous drinks. Eaw eggs in ""the 
form of all albuminous drinks. Milk in different ways as 
given in recipes under chapter; thus milk may be flavored 
with cocoa, chocolate, coffee or meat broth; diluted with lime 
water, ApoUinaris or Vichy ; combined with starchy drinks or 
strained gruels. Broths of various kinds; beef juice; beef 
tea ; beef extract. Soups, both clear and creamy ; oysters and 
clams. 

SOFT OR SEMI-SOLID FOOD 

Milk and water gruels. Water, milk or creamy toast. 
Starchy and meat jellies. Custards in various forms. Whips 
and souffles. Junkets, cornstarch puddings or blanc-mange, 
gelatins. Ice cream, sherbet, ices. Plain cream, butter, olive 
oil, mayonnaise dressing, cod liver oil, plain or emulsified. 

SOLID FOODS 

Gruels and mushes. Various forms of bread, toast and 
crackers. Eggs prepared in many forms. Meats cooked in 
various ways; as beef, mutton, lamb; chicken, turkey or 
game; sweetbreads; fish, oysters, clams. Suitable vegetables 
and fruits. 

TYPICAL DIETS FROM VARIOUS HOSPITALS 

LIGHT DIET i 
(or Convalescent Diet) 

Breakfast. — Milk, tea, coffee or cocoa (with milk and sugar). 
Bread and butter, white bread, graham bread, or toast. 
Cereals with cream. Eggs (any style except fried). Fruit: 
fresh in season or dried. 
» Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, New York. 

323 



334 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

Dinner. — Tea (milk). Soup, with stock or broths; or cream soup. 
Crackers, bread and butter. Eggs: soft boiled or poached or 
raw (if desired). Vegetables: baked or stuffed potato or rice. 
Desserts: light puddings or ices or ice cream or jellies or 
custards or fresh or stewed fruits or baked apples. 

Supper. — Tea (milk). Fruit: (fresh in season), dried, canned or 
preserved. Bread and butter: white bread, toast, milk toast; 
egg or fruit sandwich. Vegetables: baked or, stuffed potato, 
creamed baked potato; rice, baked bananas or macaroni 
(plain). Eggs (any style except fried). Light puddings or 
custards, jellies, plain cakes. 

TYPICAL IIGHT DIET i 

Breakfast. — Oranges, coffee with milk and sugar, or tea ; milk, cream 

of wheat, eggs (soft cooked in shell), toast. 
Dinner. — Tea and milk, soup, crackers, bread and butter, baked 

potato, snow pudding. 
Supper. — Tea, milk, bread and butter, steamed rice, canned peaches, 

cake, jelly. 

MILE DIET 2 
During the day give 6 to 8 ounces every two hours. 
During the night give 6 to 8 ounces every three hours. 
(When very ill give every two hours during the night.) 

FLUID DIETS 

Milk, beef tea, chicken broth, mutton broth, egg albumin. 

SOFT DIET 3 

Cereals, soft eggs, milk toast, custard, farinaceous puddings, tea, 
coffee, cocoa, milk. 

SOFT SOLIDS 1 

Soft toast, soft eggs, crackers in milk or broth, jellies of all kinds, 
ice cream, soft puddings without raisins, liquids of all kinds, soups 
strained, very weak tea, coffee or cocoa. 

Avoid: meat, potatoes, vegetables. 

LIQUID OB FARINACEOUS « 

Cereals, bread, jellies, liquids, ice cream, custard, blanc-mange, 
puddings (^without raisins), chicken. 

' Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, New York. 

^ Diet used at Bellevue Hospital, New York. 

^ Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

•Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Boston. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 335 

FARINACEOUS DIET i 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 
white bread or graham bread or rolls or muffins or toast. 
Cereals. 

Dinner. — Soup: vegetable or macaroni or barley broth. Bread or 
crackers. Vegetables: baked potatoes or tomatoes or French 
beans or rice or macaroni or samp. Puddings: rice or bread 
or crack6r or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar). Bread and milk or milk toast or 
hominy or boiled rice or puffed rice with custards or milk or 
farina or banana or potatoes baked. Fruit: apples (stewed 
or baked) or prunes or pears or peaches or apricots (other 
fruits ) . 

NITSOGENOUS DIET 2 
Meat, fish, eggs (not fried), oysters, junket, custard, ice cream, 
string beans, soup and oatmeal; with crackers, fruit, butter and let- 
tuce. 
Breakfast. — Milk or tea or coffee (with milk). Bread and butter: 

graham bread. Meats: eggs or fresh fish or stew without 

vegetables or meat or hash without potatoes. 
Dinner. — Soup: stock or chowder, graham bread. Meats: beef 

(roast or boiled) or fresh fish or Irish stew. Vegetables: 

spinach, lettuce, celery or string beans. Desserts: custards. 
Supper. — Tea (milk), graham bread and butter or bread and milk, 

eggs or cold meat. 

NUTRIENT DIET 3 

Two eggs strained through muslin into a tablespoon of cold 
water until dissolved. Add this to four to six ounces of cold 
milk, add one-half drachm salt, dissolved in water. If pa- 
tient is very low add tincture opii (deodorized). At times 
beef juice, one-half drachm is added, but is not necessary. 

OXAIURIA DIET 2 
Oxaluria, as the name signifies, is an excess of oxalate of 
lime in the form of crystals in the urine, usually affecting the 
nervous, irritable dyspeptic. It is considered that possibly the 

1 Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, New York. 
= Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 
»Elbridge' J. Cutler, M.D. : Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hos- 
pital, Boston, Mass. 



326 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

frequency of the disease among the poorer classes is due to 
an excessive vegetable diet, sugar and starch foods, com- 
bined with irritating activities. The diet should be carefully 
regulated, though liberal. All vegetables and drugs contain- 
ing oxalates must be avoided; all lime or hard water should 
be forbidden and replaced by boiled or distilled water. Sugar 
should be prohibited, coffee and tea replaced by milk. 

Avoid asparagus, celery, cauliflower, green beans, tomatoes, 
spinach, rhubarb, potatoes, sorrel, carrots, parsnips, berries, 
apples, pears, plums, grapes, chocolate and cocoa. Cut carbo- 
hydrates low. Give this: (1) eggs, to£(st, milk; (2) meat or 
fish, green vegetables, except those forbidden; peas, onions, 
custard, fruit, ice cream; (3) cereals, cold meat, cooked fruit, 
except forbidden forms. 

STRICT SrGAK-FREE DIET 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 
See " Diabetic Diet." Page 367. 

SPECIAL FAT-EREE DIET i 

Breakfast. — Lean meat, 100 gms. ; toasted bread, 50 gms. ; coffee with 
a little milk and saccharine (no butter, no cream, no sugar). 
11 A. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 

tioon. — Clear soup, fat-free; bread, 50 gms.; lean meat, 100 gms. 
4 P. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 

Supper. — Lean meat, 100 gms.; bread, 50 gms.; rice, 50 gms. 

SAIT-EREE DIET i 

See Nephritis Diet. Page 393. 

TEST DIETS 1 

Much stress is laid upon test-diets in order to determine the 
ability of the patient to properly assimilate fats, proteins or 
carbohydrates. These test-diets are known as " fat-free days," 
" sugar-free days/' " vegetable days," " oatmeal days," and a 
diet giving the proper amount of bulk, containing little pro- 
teids and carbohydrates, with the caloric value of the fat so 
low that it is styled "starvation days." 

^ Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 327 

The main test-diet is the Schmidt diet as modified by Dr. 
Hewes.^ It runs three days, beginning with breakfast, and 
is as follows : 

Schmidt Diet 

Morning. — Fifty grammes zwieback; % litre oatmeal gruel, made 
of 40 gms. rolled oats, 200 c.c. milk, 300 c.e. water, 1 egg, 10 
gms. butter. 11 a.m., % litre milk. 

Noon. — 125 gms. chopped beef broiled and made palatable with. 20- 
gms. butter; 250 gms. potato mashed with 10 gms. btrfter; 50 
gms. toast. 4 P. M.', one-half litre milk. 

Night. — ^ame as morning. (Stools third and fourth days.) It is 
carefully weighed, measured, and prepared, and one-fifth ad- 
ditional of the amount served is sent to the laboratory for 
analysis. All the patient does not consume is weighed and 
deducted; all urine and feces are calculated. 

HOSPITAL EXTRA DIET 2 

Chicken, eggs, stale bread and toast, scraped beef, sand- 
wiches, blanc-mange, soft custard without raisins ; raw -oys- 
ters, milk, broths, gruels, soups, milk whey, oranges, lemonade, 
crackers, jelly, ice cream, weak tea, coffee or cocoa. 

PISE DIET 

Consists of a ration of bread, ten ounces, and fish, eight 
ounces (the uncooked measure), such as haddock, cod or sole, 
or similar fish, potatoes, eight ounces, cocoa, one ounce, with 
half an ounce of sugar and a sixth of a pint of milk. 

This is a serviceable form of diet for those for whom large 
quantities of meat are not only unnecessary but injurious. 

BROTH DIET 

In children's hospitals a diet is sometimes classified as the 
"broth diet," consisting of mutton broth flavored with veg- 
etables, and bread and butter, with milk ; or a " beef tea diet," 
in which beef tea replaces the broth. In the lighter diet of 
children, gruels, bread and molasses, and simple farinaceous 

iDr. Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. 
5 Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



338 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

foods such as farina, cornstarch, rice, etc., should play an 
important role. Sometimes such a diet goes under the name 
of " soft food." 

RESTRICTED DIET 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (with milk and sugar). Farinaceous food 
(with milk). Eggs. 

Dinner. — Soup ; raw oysters, roast beef, steak or chicken and veg- 
etables. Pudding (bread, rice, tapioca or cornstarch). 

Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar). Bread (with butter). Fruit 
(fresh or dried). 

BELLEVUE HOSPITAL IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK, 1910 
Dietary Table for Patients 

MONDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee, with milk and sugar, bread and butter, oatmeal, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dmner. — Roast beef, rice, soup, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

apples. 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, hominy, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner. — Mutton stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread, bread pudding. 
Supper. — Tea ( with milk and sugar ) , bread and butter, prunes. 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, rice, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). . 

Dinner. — Eoast beef, barley soup, potatoes, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

prunes. 

THURSDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, oatmeal 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner. — Beef stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

apricots. 

FRIDAY 
Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, two 

eggs, crackers, milk (1 qt. ) . 
Dinner. — Baked fish, potatoes, vegetables, bread, rice pudding. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 329 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast, — Coffee (with milt and sugar), bread and butter, hominy, 
crackers, milk (1 qt.). 

Dinner. — Mutton stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 

Supper, — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 
prunes, apples. 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, crack- 
ers, milk (1 qt.), two eggs. 

Dinner. — Corn beef, bean soup, potatoes, bread, cornstarch pudding. 

Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 

MILK DIET 
To be prescribed by the attending physician or surgeons. 

ARTICLES OF SPECIAL DIET 
Beefsteak, beef tea, chicken, chicken soup, rice and milk, eggs, 
milk. 

DIETARY OF THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL IN THE CITY OF 
NEW YORK, 1910 

HOUSE DIET 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 
White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 
Porridge: Oatmeal, or wheaten-grits or Indian meal or hom- 
iny or farina or samp. Meats: Hash or eggs or salt fish 
or fresh fish or stew. 

Dinner. — Soup: Stock or mutton broth with barley or vegetable or 
chowder; dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or mut- 
ton (roast or boiled) or corned beef or fresh fish or Irish 
stew. Vegetables: Potatoes, baked, boiled or mashed and 
tomatoes or baked beans or French beans or turnips or 
beets or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread 
or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or custard. 

Supper. — Tea (sugar and milk), bread and butter or toast and 
butter. Fruit: Apples stewed or baked or prunes or pears. 

CONVALESCENT DIET 
Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter. 

White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 

Porridge: Hominy or farina. Meats: Eggs or fresh fish or 

stew (plain). 
Dinner. — Soup: Stock or chicken or mutton broth with barley or 

vegetable. Dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or 



330 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

chicken or fish (fresh). Vegetables: Potatoes (baked) or rice 
or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or tapioca or 
farina or cornstarch or custard. 
Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar). Bread and milk or milk toast or 
bread and butter or toast and butter. Fruit: Apples stewed 
or baked or prunes or pears. 

NITROGENOUS DIET 
Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk), bread and butter, Graham bread. 

Meats: Eggs or fresh fish or stew without vegetables or meat, 

hash without potatoes. 
Dinner. — Soup : Stock or chowder, Graham bread. Meats : Beef 

(roast or boiled) or mutton (roast or boiled) or fresh fish or 

Irish stew. Vegetables: Spinach or lettuce or celery or 

string beans. Pudding: Custard. 
Supper.— Tea. (milk), Graham bread and butter or bread and milk, 

eggs qr cold meat. 

FARINACEOUS DIET 
Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 

White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 

Porridge: Hominy or farina or Indian meal. 
Dinner. — Soup : Vegetable or macaroni or barley broth ; dry bread. 

Vegetables: Baked potatoes and tomatoes or French beans 

or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or 

tapioca or farina or cornstarch. 
Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar) bread and milk or milk toast or 

hominy or boiled rice or farina. Fruit: Apples stewed or 

baked or prunes or pears. 

MILK DIET 
Breakfast. — One quart of milk. 
Dinner. — One quart of milk. 
Supper. — One quart of milk. 

EXTRAS 

ORDERED ONLY BY THE ATTENDING PHYSICIAN OR SURGEON 

Mutton chops, beef steak, scraped beef, beef tea (made with hydro- 
chloric acid), chicken (broiled, fricasseed or roast), chicken 
broth, eggs, milk, oysters, clam broth, gruels, crackers, ginger 
bread, custard, milk toast. 



CHAPTEE XIV 
DIET IN DISEASE 

One of the most striking differences between the older and 
more recent methods of treatment of disease is the careful 
attention bestowed upon the diet at the present day. For it is 
now recognized that the proper selection of food, both solid 
and fluid, is of as much importance as the use of medicaments. 
In the management of diseases affecting the digestive organs 
proper, and in all affections of metabolism (gout, obesity and 
diabetes, for example) the diet may be said to represent the 
treatment, and there is hardly any disease which may not be 
benefited by intelligent feeding. 

These matters, however, are left entirely to the medical prac- 
titioner, and it is only exceptionally that the nurse is required 
to assume any responsibility. She should know in a general 
way, however, the types of food suitable in different diseased 
conditions, so that she may avoid harmful foods when not 
given specific instructions, and so that she may adapt the 
prescribed diet to the tastes of the individual. For this pur- 
pose, an outline of the diets in use in common diseases is 
included in this volume. 

DIET IN FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 
DIET IN TEVER IN GEKEBAL 
In fevers due to poisons circulating in the blood, there is 
an interference with heat regulation, so that the heat gen- 
erated in the body cannot be gotten rid of in the normal 
way; an increased metabolism; and a disturbance of the di- 
gestive and absorptive functions. It is, therefore, desirable to 
give easily digested food, in small quantities at frequent in- 

331 



333 DIET IN DISEASE 

tervals, preferably in liquid form, as substances dissolved in 
water are more readily absorbed, and water tends to aid in 
cooling the body to normal temperature. 

For the first three or four days, patients previously strong, 
should be given only fluid foods. But since a normal man, 
lying quietly in bed, requires about 2000 calories to com- 
pensate for daily loss of energy, and in the increased metab- 
olism of fever, this requirement is increased, it is necessary 
that more substantial food be incorporated into the diet as far 
as is possible without disturbing digestion. 

DIET. — Milk is the staple food, but must be given with care, 
swallowed very slowly and diluted with limewater, soda, seltzer or 
other effervescent water — one part to two parts milk. 

If milk can be taken, two or three pints should be given — four 
ounces every two hours, or six ounces every three hours. In case 
milk does not agree, whey may be given as a substitute for milk in 
part or in whole. Modified milk or peptonized milk may be given. 
Sometimes the milk may be flavored with tea, coffee, cocoa or 
malted milk and junket used. 

Next to milk the most important article of diet is beef juice and 
broths. Next come well cooked gruels. Later well prepared cereals 
and malt extract are valuable, and plain or cocoa junkets. Usually 
there is thirst, and all acid drinks, such as grape juice, may be taken. 

Panopepton with crushed ice, peptonised milk, clam, mutton and 
chicken broth, beef tea, clear soups, thickened with some farinaceous 
substance, gelatin jellies, are all of value. 

Liquids. — Pure cold water, toast water, any of the acid drinks, 
all sipped slowly, are recommended both to relieve thirst and on 
account of facilitating the speed with which the waste matter re- 
sulting from increased metabolism of the fever is eliminated through 
the kidneys. 

AVOID. — Any solid or vegetable food or fruits, until permitted 
by the physician in charge. 

DIET IN CONVALESCENCE FEOM FEVER 
Thompson i 

Convalescents who have long subsisted solely upon fluids 
must be careful in resuming solid diet, for the rapidity of 
recuperation of the digestive organs varies in different per- 

'W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New Yorlc. D. 
Appleton & Co, 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 333 

sons, and taking meats or other solid foods too soon may cause 
rise in temperature, rapid heart action, and possibly visceral 
congestion. The first meat given, therefore, should be in a 
finely subdivided state, such as scraped beef or minced chicken. 

During convalescence from protracted fevers the more 
easily digested forms of starchy foods are found to be very 
useful, especially if there has been much loss of weight. Sago 
and tapioca, and dried bread crumbs rolled through a fine 
sieve may be added to thicken clear meat broths. Crackers 
and zwieback are useful. 

Other ingredients which may be added to thicken soups 
during convalescence are panada, semolina, tapioca, and maca- 
roni. Custard puddings, cooked fruit, wine and beef jellies, 
blanc-mange, or baked custard, may be allowed. " Mush," 
fine hominy, cornstarch, farina, and boiled rice, with beef 
Juice, can be ordered. 

The following dietary will serve as a general guide for 
feeding convalescents from fevers of ordinary severity in 
which special lesions of the alimentary canal are not present. 

FIRST DAY 
Breakfast. — Poached egg on toast. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — Milk punch. 

Dinner. — Raw oysters. Cream crackers. Light wine if desired. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot meat broth. 
Supper. — Milk toast. Wine jelly. Tea. 

SECOND DAY 
Breakfast. — Soft cooked egg. Milk punch. Coffee with sugar and 

cream. 
Lunch. — One cup of soft custard. 
Dinner. — Cream of celery soup. Sippets of toast. A little barley 

pudding, with cream. Sherry wine if desired. 
Lunch. — Milk punch. 
Supper. — Water toast, buttered. Wine jelly. Tea. 

THIRD DAY 
Breakfast. — Coddled eggs. Cream toast. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cvip of hot chicken broth. 

Dinner. — Chicken panada. Bread. Light wine if desired. A little 
tapioca cream. 



334 DIET IN DISEASE 

Lunch. — An eggnog. 

Supper. — Buttered dry toast. Baked sweet apples and cream. Tea. 

FOURTH DAY 
Breakfast. — An orange. Oatmeal (H. O.), with cream and sugar. 

Poached egg on toast. Baked potato. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot, soft custard. 
Dinner. — Potato soup. Crolltons. A small piece of beefsteak. 

Creamed potatoes. Baked custard. Coffee. 
Lunch. — One cup of chicken broth, with rice. 
Supper. — Raw oysters. Banquet crackers. Graham bread, toasted 

Wine jelly. Tea. 

FIFTH DAY 

Breakfast. — An orange. Coffee. Oatmeal, with cream and sugar. 
Broiled mutton chop. Toast. 

Lunch. — One cup of mulled wine. 

Dinner. — Chicken soup. Bread. Creamed sweetbreads. Duchess po- 
tatoes. Snow pudding. Cocoa. 

Lunch. — Siphon soda, with coffee syrup and cream. 

Supper. — Buttered dry toast. Orange jelly. Sponge cake and 
cream. Tea. 

A further discussion of this topic will be found in the sec- 
tion upon Convalescence in Typhoid Fever. 

While brandy and whiskey constitute the best form in 
which to give alcohol in the acute stage of fever, in con- 
valescence it is often advisable to use some other alcoholic 
drink, and an occasional change from one variety to another 
renders the patient somewhat less liable to the danger of 
acquiring a permanent alcoholic habit. For convalescence, 
if the patient's purse can afford it, champagne, port wine, 
sherry, Madeira, or a good claret or Burgundy, may be taken 
with advantage, in the class of cases above mentioned. 

TYPHOID FEVER 

The modern dietetics of typhoid may be conveniently con- 
sidered under three plans of feeding as follows : 

1. Starvation Treatment of Typhoid. This ancient method 
of feeding or omitting to feed typhoid patients has recently 
been revived with alleged good results, but those who have 
tested the method are thus far few in number and it is very 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 335 

unlikeljf that the profession as a whole will ever adopt it, 
especially since we know what may be done with liberal feed- 
ing. Typhoid subjects are commonly young, vigorous and 
well nourished and can naturally subsist for a long time on 
their own stored-up nutriment ; while by " starvation " they 
are protected from intestinal fermentation of undigested food. 
Hence such patients may seem to do well for a number of 
days on water alone given in unlimited quantities. But this 
represents but one aspect, and that a narrow one, in the prob- 
lem of feeding typhoid patients, and is applicable only to 
particular cases and particular stages of such cases. Much 
would also depend, perhaps, on other methods of treatment 
in use. Thus if the fever were kept down by cold baths, 
the demand for nutriment would doubtless be less than were 
the fever allowed to pursue its course. 

With advancing age the mortality rate increases greatly, and 
patients above thirty-five or forty doubtless require nutri- 
ment to a greater extent than the youthful. 

2. Liquid Diet in Typhoid. This consists chiefly of milk, 
varied with broths and cereal decoctions. The milk which is 
the mainstay, is given in amounts up to two quarts in twenty- 
four hours, other articles being given only now and then to 
vary the monotony. Milk may itself be administered in 
various forms — peptonised milk, whey, malted milk and 
junket, kumyss and artificially-soured milk. Water is also 
given freely. This mode of dieting has been for many years 
the prevailing one for the acutely dangerous period of the 
disease, having succeeded the earlier beef tea diet. Under 
liquid diet may also be mentioned the various predigested 
foods, which, by reason of their concentrated state, are of 
value when there is difficulty in ingesting enough milk to 
make up the proper fuel value for the day. 

Of late years, it has been claimed that milk is unsuited 
for diet in typhoid because it forms an ideal culture medium 
for bacteria. A much older objection is the necessary forma- 
tion of irritating curds from the cows' milk usually given. 
This last objection has been met to some extent by peptonisa- 



336 DIET IN DISEASE 

tion of the milk, and by ingesting it very slowly, so that no 
large clot can quickly form. Milk already curdled and emul- 
sified, as in the form of kumyss and other fermented products 
escapes this objection, and is less favorable to putrefaction. 
But the most weighty objection to -a fluid diet is probably 
found in the belief that it gives too few calories in propor- 
tion to the volume of food injected, and hence like the 
starvation treatment is not adapted for routine use but only 
for special cases and special periods. 

3. Liberal or Generous Diet. This in its widest sense is 
doubtless the only sound routine plan, for it permits the use 
of semi-solid food if the patient can take it and digest it. 
It allows considerable variety, for such dishes as custard, ice 
cream, arrowroot, calf's foot jelly and the like, usually re- 
served for convalescence, may often be taken safely at an 
early period in the disease. There is, in fact, hardly any 
line drawn as to how far a person may go, provided he does 
not go beyond the dietary proper for delicate stomachs. 
Baked potato, baked apple, rice pudding, water toast and 
similar articles are gradually added to the diet and even lamb 
chop and soft-boiled eggs are given while the temperature is 
still elevated. This, of course, is in direct violation of the 
older rule of giving liquid food until fever has completely 
subsided. The justification appears to lie in the fact that 
liberal diet often saves life, and in cases where the chances 
seem against recovery it is one of the reserve cards to play. 
Because if the patient is likely to die in any case, the solid 
diet, if it can be tolerated, cannot add to the risk and may 
be of incalculable value. This observation was made long 
ago in connection with such diseases as childbed fever, blood 
poisoning, erysipelas, meningitis, gangrene and similar mala- 
dies with a natural tendency to go from bad to worse; and 
the severest types of typhoid belong in the same category of 
diseases. 

Note. — " High Caloric Feeding " in typhoid which has been 
tested in recent years is known as the high caloric, in which 
it is aimed to give the patient far more calories than he 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 337 

should utilize in health, even at the hardest labor and on the 
most liberal diet. This is the exact antithesis of the water 
or starvation diet, in which the patient subsists on his own. 
tissues. In the high caloric plan the theory is to supply 
such an excess of nutriment that the least possible loss of tis- 
sue occurs; so that the period of convalescence and recupera- 
tion should be greatly shortened. Certain physicians have 
actually claimed a gain in weight during the fever under 
plans of this character. It is obviously very difBcult to feed 
typhoid patients with food having the highest calorific value. 
Even the blandest fats are badly tolerated, as is also cane 
sugar. It is possible, however, to use glucose, dextrin, and 
especially lactose, along with brandy, more or less in connec- 
tion with ordinary feeding, to such a degree that in in- 
dividual cases the number of calories in the ordinary liberal 
diet may be practically doubled. 

Whatever shortcomings exist in connection with calorie 
feeding are naturally increased with the amount of food. 
There is practically no limit to what can be ingested in 
twenty-four hours, but there may be a limit to utilization. 
The amount of calories actually used can only be determined 
by painstaking investigation of the excreta. There is also 
great individual variation in the oxidation of special food- 
stuffs, as is seen notably in alcohol. The greater the daily 
intake, the greater the difficulty in establishing common 
standards. For this and other reasons it is best to regard 
caloric feeding as merely a check, on the older methods and 
on common experience. It is hardly likely, therefore, that 
high caloric feeding will ever come into vogue, although it 
may have a field in the individual case or at some special 
period in a case. 

llftTJID DIET IN TYPHOID FEVER 

In iJhe ordinary ease, two and a half pints of milk and a 

pint and a half of beef, mutton or chicken broth will be a fair 

average supply, given in divided quantities, alternately. 

Give ten ounces at a time, every three hours; the broths will 



338 DIET IN DISEASE 

come in after every second supply of milk. The amount of 
meat broths must be governed by the state of the bowels. If 
diarrhoea, then broths must not be given, or should be 
given in very small quantities. 

Broths tend to increase diarrhoea. In some cases meat jelly 
iced or extract of meat may be taken in place of broths, a 
teaspoon being given at a time. 

The chief guide in the matter of food in typhoid must be 
found in the condition of the stools. The physician in charge 
of the case should himself see the feces daily. If any signs 
of undigested food appear, there is something regarding the 
dietary that is wrong. If masses of hard curd appear in the 
motion, there is probably too much milk given in the twenty- 
four hours, or it is being given in too large quantities at a 
time. 

It may be that the quantities are not wrong, and that dilu- 
tion of the milk, or the addition of an alkali, or of some 
farinaceous material in powder well cooked in milk will an- 
swer the purpose by preventing the formation of the firm 
curd. 

Milk, if not retained or digested, should be peptonised. 

The chill may be taken from milk by adding a little hot 
water, and twenty drops of the saccharated solution of lime 
in each supply will secure alkalinity. Parinaceous substances 
to use in milk are arrowroot and baked flour, to aid in subdi- 
vision of the curd. Food should .not be given as the- nurse 
sees fit, but definite directions should be laid down as to the 
quantity to be given at a time and the mode of its administra- 
tion. 

Indication for the use of alcohol lies in the condition of 
the heart. A small, frequent, easily compressed pulse, espe- 
cially if associated with feebleness of the first sound of the 
heart, is a clear indication that alcohol is required. The 
amount given should be small — from a teaspoon to a table- 
spoon, or one ounce of wine. 

Alcohol, on account of effect only lasting for a short time, 
should be given every two hours, so that stimulation is kept 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 339 

up. In giving alcohol, you get an effect first of stimulation, 
then depression. 

The use of alcohol is not advocated by some physicians. 

TTPHOID FLriD DIET OF PKESBYTEMAN HOSPITAl i 

Milk, broth, egg albumin. 

TYPHOID FLUID DIET OF 6I0VEBSVII1E HOSPITAL 2 

Milk, strained broths of chicken, mutton, beef, clam broth, 
barley water, farina, arrovi^root and other gruels, custards, egg- 
nog, weak tea, bouillon, junket, cream, egg albumin, gelatin. 

DIET IN CONVALESCENCE FROM TYPHOID 
Thompson 3 

As the fever subsides, it becomes an important question 
how soon to allow a return to solid food. Eelaps'es are very 
easily induced by indiscretion in this regard. 

The patient's appetite is always a dangerous guide to fol- 
low in this disease. After four or five weeks of an exclusive 
milk or milk and broth diet, when the temperature subsides, 
and often before it has become normal, he becomes ravenous. 
Like a long-starved man, he thinks of nothing but food, and 
demands something new to eat every day. A hospital ward 
containing a- dozen convalescing typhoid fever patients, is 
difficult to manage, as a bread riot is constantly menaced. Ill- 
advised but sympathetic friends attempt to smuggle in all 
manner of forbidden fruits, and the patient just arrived at 
the hungry state is tempted to steal solid food from his more 
advanced neighbors. 

In the milder cases it is undoubtedly both safe and wise 
to allow a strengthening diet at an early date, and it will 
greatly prolong convalescence to forbid it. Light farinaceous 
diet — tapioca, rice, vermicelli, cream-toast, a cracker soaked 
in cream, etc. — may be given with impunity in eases which 
have run a mild course, as soon as the temperature remains 

1 Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

2 Diet used at the Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, N. Y. 

3 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



340 DIET IN DISEASE 

normal. Meat broth may be thickened with rice, sago, or 
vermicelli. In a day or two more, the soft part of oysters 
or a chop are permissible in cases which have presented no 
need of prolonging a fluid diet for fear of intestinal injury. 
The following is a list of fluids suitable for the different 
days of convalescence, commencing a day or two after disap- 
pearance of all fever. Milk should still be given, until grad- 
ually wholly replaced by solid food : 

DIET IN TYPHOID AFTER TWO DAYS OF NORMAL TEMPERA- 
TURE i 
First Day. — Chicken broth thickened with thoroughly boiled rice. 

Milk toast or cream toast once only during the day. Beef 

juice. 
Second Day. — Junket, mutton broth, and bread crumbs. Cocoa. 

Milk toast. A piece of tender steak may be chewed but not 

swallowed. One of the prepared farinaceous foods, such as 

Horlick's, may be given with a cup of hot milk. 
Third Day. — A small scraped beef sandwich at noon. A soft cooked 

egg or baked custard for supper. Boiled rice or potato purge 

strained. Arrowroot gruel. 
Fourth Day. — The soft part of three or four oysters. Meat broth 

thickened with a beaten egg. Cream toast. Rice pudding or 

blanc-mange and whipped cream, or Bavarian cream. 
Fifth Day. — Scraped beef sandwich. A tender sweetbread. Bread 

and milk. A poached egg. Wine jelly or calf's foot jelly. 

Macaroni. 
Sixth Day, — Mush or crackers and milk, scrambled eggs, chicken 

jelly. Bread and butter. The soft parts of raw oysters. 
Seventh Day. — A small piece of tenderloin steak or a little breast of 

broiled chicken. Bread and butter. Boiled rice. Wine jelly. 

Sponge cake and whipped cream. 
Eighth Day. — A slice of tender rare roast beef, a thoroughly baked 

mealy potato served with butter or mashed with cream. 

Other food as before. 
'Ninth Day. — A little broiled fresh fish for breakfast. Beef steak at 

dinner. Eice, macaroni, eggs. Sago, rice, or milk pudding. 

A baked apple. 
Tenth Day. — Mush and milk. A squab or breast of partridge or 

roast chicken. Other foods as before. Ice cream. 

1 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. 
Appieton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 341 

For the next four or five days the patient may select 
articles from the menu of the previous day, so that three 
good meals a day are taken, besides three or four glasses of 
milk between meals. 

It is often desirable to give a little alcoholic stimulant, 
especially if there is much difference in the frequency of the 
pulse between lying and sitting or standing, or if the pulse 
rate is very low, say 56, as it sometimes is. A glass of sherry 
or a good, sound Burgundy, or a tumbler of ale may be 
drunk, but with meals only. 

DIET IN TYPHOID AFTER TWO WEEKS OF NORMAL TEMPERA- 
TURE 
Presbyterian Hospital i 
Strained vegetable soups, baked apples, baked potatoes, oat- 
meal.. 

TYPHOID DELICACIES 
Presbyterian Hospital i 

Rice (well cooked), junket, custard, gruels, milk toast, 
scraped beef, eggs. 

TYPHOID EXTRA DIET 
Presbyterian Hospital i 

Broths, beef soups, oysters, white fish, beef, chops, mutton, 
steak, custard, eggs, chicken, rice, white bread, toast, farina- 
ceous puddings. 

Avoid vegetables, fruit, pastry or hot bread; 

LIBERAL DIET IN TYPHOID FEVER 
Shattuck 2 
When typhoid fever kills it does so either by perforation 
or exhaustion, the proportion of the former being estimated 
at 5 to 10 per cent. The main factors in producing the ex- 
haustion which causes the death of at least nine-tenths of the 
fatal eases are toxemia, continued fever, diarrhcea and vomit- 

1 Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

2 Frederick C. Shattuck, M.D. — Bead by title in the Section on Practice 
of Medicine at the Forty-eighth Annual Meeting of the American Medical 
Association at Philadelphia, Pa, June 1-4, 1897. 



342 DIET IN DISEASE 

ing, and intestinal hemorrhage. The heart is ordinarily the 
best index of the presence and degree of exhaustion, and the 
most frequent serious pulmonary complication, hypostasis, in 
its various forms, degrees and consequences, is the direct out- 
growth of the cardiac weakness. Moreover, typhoid fever is 
not short and sharp like pneumonia, but of long course, and 
usually attended with decided, often with very great wasting 
of the muscular and fatty tissues. 

Most of us are agreed that we are not as yet acquainted 
with any therapeutic measures which will either abort or very 
materially shorten the course of the disease. "We are, I think, 
unanimous in believing that husbanding the strength from 
the start through skillful nursing, the Judicious use of water 
externally and internally, and the supervision of a wise at- 
tendant on the watch for and prepared to meet such indica- 
tions as may arise, materially modifies the course of the dis- 
ease and lessens its mortality. If what I have assumed to be 
facts be really facts, the question of diet must be a very 
important one in the management of typhoid fever. It is 
through the food which is assimilated, not through that which 
is merely put into the stomach, that we seek to limit the tis- 
sue waste while the process is active, and also try to land the 
patient on the low shore of convalescence with as much of his 
property as may be; for the recovery of his property is a 
necessary preliminary to the attainment of the high tableland 
of full health. 

Under the old doctrines as to inflammation, fever was an 
unfailing indication for depletion; directly by venesection, 
pukes, sweats and purges; indirectly by starvation. Indis- 
criminate direct depletion is now a thing of the past, and 
since the time of Todd the fact has gradually been more and 
more clearly recognized that the febrile state is often an 
indication for more, rather than less, nourishment, with selec- 
tion as to quality, rather than diminution as to quantity. In 
the shorter essential fevers a few days' starvation cannot do 
much harm, and may even be of great service with a certain 
class of patients. But suppurative fever for instance, whether 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 343 

of tubercular or other origin, especially if chronic, we feed 
to the largest limit; and we do this because we treat the con- 
dition and not the disease, individualizing our cases. Since 
our knowledge of gastric chemistry has been enriched by the 
adaptation of the soft catheter to another hollow viscus at the 
opposite extremity of the abdomen, a more complete explana- 
tion has been afforded for the fact which we knew by practical 
experience before, that gastric digestion is often weakened in 
the febrile state. But the same practical experience teaches 
us that it is not always so, or very materially so, and when 
theory and practice conflict, the former must prevail. Have 
we not fully escaped from the domination of the old doctrine 
as to the lowering treatment of inflammation, or are there 
valid reasons why we should be less bold in feeding our 
typhoid patients than our chronic febrile consumptives? 
Three such reasons deserve special consideration. In .the first 
place, typhoid is far more frequently a self-limited disease 
than is phthisis ; but the fact of a self -limitation does not seem 
to me to warrant us in underfeeding, for the less the patient 
loses the less does he require to regain. In the second place, 
typhoid has constant intestinal lesions which may bleed or 
perforate, and which may be accompanied by a general 
catarrhal state of the intestinal tract. I may perhaps add 
here that diarrhoea is not nearly as constant a symptom in 
typhoid fever as the books lead students to believe. In at 
least 50 per cent, of my hospital cases no diarrhrea was pres- 
ent at any time. We must therefore have reference to the 
local intestinal lesions as well as to the general state. In 
a disease of such long course it is impossible to prevent acci- 
dents by putting the bowels in splints, even if it were de- 
sirable to do so. More or less peristalsis must go on, and 
waste matter must pass over the ulcerated surfaces ; and how 
deep or extensive the ulcerated surface may be in any par- 
ticular ease no symptom or group of symptoms enables us to 
measure. Hence, it seems rational, quite apart from the 
fever, to withhold from the diet any articles the residue of 
which is liable to irritate either the mucous membrane in 



344 DIET IN DISEASE 

general or the ulcerated portion in particular. This would 
seem a fair explanation for the popularity of milk as a diet 
for typhoid, containing as it does a large proportion of water, 
and every principle necessary to nutrition, so combined as to 
make relatively small demands on the digestion of most per- 
sons, and leaving a residue which, though notoriously large, 
is not mechanically irritating. The objection to milk is that 
it is repugnant to a few persons, and becomes either repugnant 
or monotonous to a considerable number sooner or later. It 
is not necessary here to specify the many expedients which 
may and often must be resorted to to overcome this objection, 
and in some cases to render it digestible whether palatable or 
not. Milk is likely to maintain a very important, perhaps 
leading place in the diet of typhoid, as well as of other dis- 
eases and conditions. For a number of years I adhered as 
strictly as possible to an exclusively milk diet in typhoid 
fever until at least a week had elapsed from the date of the 
first normal evening temperature. I closed my ears to the 
clamors of adults, and my eyes and heart to the tears of 
children, as I now believe, unnecessarily. Thirdly, it was 
only comparatively recently the general opinion of the pro- 
fession that relapse is or may be due to errors in diet. I 
well remember the time when a fresh access of fever led my 
teachers and me to carefully inquire into the kindness of 
officious friends. It was often proved that forbidden fruit 
actually or metaphorically had been brought in by a visitor, 
and this was an entirely satisfactory explanation. When 
proof could not be had, the fact of relapse was strong pre- 
sumptive evidence of sin. We know better now, and while 
we recognize that errors in diet may produce fever, as may 
fatigue or excitement in convalescence from any severe dis- 
ease, we do not believe that they can start up a fresh invasion 
of bacilli from within. One of the things which set me 
thinking on this question of the diet in typhoid was the 
favorable course run by several acute febrile cases for whom I 
ordered a full diet because they were weak; believing at the 
time of so doing that typhoid could be excluded, but being 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 345 

forced to the conclusion later that only typhoid fever could 
explain the whole course of the disease. These patients did 
perfectly well, were happier and convalesced more rapidly 
than my recognized typhoid cases fed exclusively on milk. 
For five years now, I have been enlarging the diet of my 
typhoid cases, and have seen no reason to regret this course, 
hut, on the contrary, found cause for satisfaction. 

During the twelve years, 1886 to 1897 (both inclusive), 
380 cases of typhoid fever have come under my personal care 
dn the Massachusetts General Hospital. From 1886 to 1893, 
233 cases were treated under a milk diet, with a mortality 
of 10 per cent. From 1892 to 1897, 147 cases have been 
freated under a much more extended diet with a mortality of 
8.1 per cent. I know well the liability to reach false conclu- 
sions in reasoning from too small figures in a disease like 
typhoid fever. And it is also true that water has been used 
more efficiently of late than in former years. But I can 
see nothing in my figures to contravene my observation that 
an enlarged diet has not been injurious. I would not be 
understood as advocating an indiscriminate diet. My plea 
is simply for treating the patient rather than the disease; 
for feeding him with reference to his digestive power rather 
than solely or mainly with reference to his fever; for the 
view that the danger of accidents from the local intestinal 
ulceration is not increased by allowing him to partake of 
articles which leave no. irritating residue, and which cautious 
trial shows are digested without disturbance or discomfort. 
At one end of the scale are the cases with such irritability 
or weakness of the stomach as to lead to the unfortunate term 
gastric fever, or those with pronounced diarrhoea and un- 
digested food in the stools; at the other end are those more 
numerous cases with clean tongue and a desire for food. 
Between the two is every gradation. The life of the former 
may depend on the skill and ingenuity of the doctor, as- 
sisted by the intelligent devotion of the nurse. The com- 
fort and the duration of disability of all others may be 
materially modified for good by careful study and wise in- 



346 DIET IN DISEASE 

dividualization of our cases. A long list of permissible ar- 
ticles, from which selection can be made for different cases, 
and for the same case at different times under varying cir- 
cumstances, can be given. That which I append makes no 
claim to completeness, but is meant merely to be suggestive 
and illustrative: 

1. Milk, hot or cold, with or without salt, diluted with lime water, 
soda water, Apollinaris, Viehy; peptogenic and peptonised milk; 
cream and water (i. e., less alhumin), milk with white of egg, slip 
buttermilk, kumyss, matzoon, milk whey, milk with tea, coffee, 
cocoa. 

2. Soups: beef, veal, chicken, tomato, potato, oyster, mutton, pea, 
bean, squash; carefully strained and thickened with rice (powdered), 
arrowroot, flour, milk or cream, egg, barley. , 

3. Jlorlick's food, malted milk, carnipeptone, bovinine, somatose. 

4. Beef juice. 

0. Gruels: strained cornmeal, crackers, flour, barley-water, toast- 
water, albumin, water with lemon-juice.. 

6. Ice cream. Water ice. 

7. Eggs, soft boiled or raw, egg-nog. 

8. Finely minced lean meat, scraped beef. The soft part of raw 
oysters. Soft crackers with milk or broth. Soft puddings without 
raisins. Soft toast without crust. Blanc-mange, wine jelly, apple 
sauce and macaroni. 

TONSIIITIS ANS aUINSY 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. These diseases require no special care 
in the acute stage, beyond giving food in such fluid form as 
can be most easily swallowed. The pain caused by this act 
is often so extreme that it is advisable to concentrate all food, 
to lessen the number of necessary acts of deglutition. Meat 
juice, peptonoids, beaten eggs and brandy, may be added to 
good milk. Plain vanilla ice cream may be given. Its cold- 
ness is sometimes soothing to the pharynx. 

Holding cracked ice in the mouth before swallowing will 
sometimes annul the pain momentarily, or in extreme cases 
the pharynx and tonsils may be sprayed M^ith cocaine, and the 

>W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 347 

period of temporary ansethesia may be utilized for swallowing 
considerable nourishment. This is rarely necessary, for un- 
less the patient is emaciated by previous serious illness, he is 
not apt to be in need of much food for a day or two. In bad 
cases of suppurative tonsilitis the strength sufEers more, and 
stimulants may be given by the rectum if deglutition is im- 
possible. 

After all forms of tonsilitis there is apt to be considerable 
anaemia, and the patient for a week or two should eat 
abundantly of animal food. Egg-nog and milk punches are 
often needed for the first few days of convalescence. 

DIPHTHERIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. "Alimentation occupies the first 
place in the general treatment" (Trousseau). Throughout 
the active stage of the disease, while the fever lasts, there is 
difficulty in swallowing. , All food must be given in fluid 
form, of which milk is the best, or if, as sometimes happens, 
semi-solid material is more easily swallowed, the food must 
be thickened with cream, gelatin, eggs, or farinaceous articles ; 
or Dry Peptonoids Soluble, malted milk, etc., may be added 
for this purpose to other foods^ The use of pineapple juice 
is recommended because it contains an enzyme which belongs 
to the proteolytic group. 

The diet should consist chiefly of nutritious beef or chicken 
broth and beef tea, egg albumin, egg-nog, milk, and milk 
punch. Plain vanilla ice cream is nutritious, and if not too 
sweet, it is well borne, and is frequently very grateful to the 
inflamed throat. Simple farinaceous foods, such as arrow- 
root, thoroughly cooked rice, soft cream toast, and gruels, 
may be taken. Continued disgust for food is a very bad 
prognostic sign, and every effort must be made to counteract 
it by offering variety. When the child is unable to swallow 
on account of pain in accumulation of membrane in the 

iW. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. ' 
Appleton & Co. 



348 DIET IN DISEASE 

throat, forced feeding with a nasal or stomach tube may be 
better than nutrient enemata. 

FNETTIIONIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The indications for treatment are to 
give a light diet, Vhich will not excite the cough in swallow- 
ing, or increase dyspnoea by distention of the stomach, or 
augment the enfeeblement of the heart action by, overtaxing 
the digestive powers. Vomiting should be especially guarded 
against, and if nausea exists, efforts should be made at once 
to control it. It is not necessary to keep the patient upon a 
rigid milk diet, but if milk is well borne, it is advisable to 
give nothing else while the acute symptoms last; otherwise, 
whey, meat juice, broths, and egg albumin may be allowed. 
Starchy and saccharine food must be withheld. . Cold drinks 
are both acceptable and beneficial to the patient, and water 
plain or aerated, such as ApoUinaris or soda water, may be 
drunk in considerable quantity. It is believed by some au- 
thorities that the activity of the kidneys may be thus pro- 
moted, and that the poison which occasions the constitutional 
symptoms of the disease may be better eliminated. There are 
cases, however, among persons with robust circulation, in 
which the onset is very sudden and violent. The pulse' is 
full and bounding, and the heart is greatly overworked by 
the effort to propel a large volume of imperfectly aerated 
blood. In such instances the addition of large quantities of 
fluid to the circulation, besides what is actually required for 
nutrition, may have the effect of still further straining the 
heart. 

It is stated that carbonated waters reduce the viscidity of 
the sputum, which is often very tenacious. 

The diet should be kept fluid until defervescence has oc- 
curred, with a normal temperature and commencing disap- 
pearance of the exudation — in fact, it is well to prolong 

' W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 349 

the fluid diet for three or four days after the temperature 
has become normal, in order to make sure that a relapse of 
the fever is not likely to follow. In those eases in which 
resolution is postponed, and the patient becomes more and 
more feeble, although the temperature may be nearly or quite 
normal, it may be desirable to give a little properly prepared 
solid food somewhat earlier, and scraped beef, with toast, or 
a soft-cooked egg may be added to the milk 'diet. 

During the entire period of convalescence the diet must 
be very nourishing and of easy digestion; milk may still be 
given, and after slowly returning to the regulation three meals 
a day (see Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid Fever, p. 
339, patients do well to take milk punch, or egg-nog, or a 
glass of wine and a biscuit three or four times a day in the 
intervals. 

Alcohol is exceptionally well borne, and it undoubtedly 
serves both as a food and a support to the overworked heart. 
The fact that it is thoroughly oxidized in the circulation or 
tissues is demonstrated by the large quantities which patients 
can often digest and absorb without toxic symptoms. Doses 
may be thus tolerated which in health would ordinarily pro- 
duce drunkenness. In alcoholic subjects who have been drink- 
ing up to the time of the onset of the disease, it is indispen- 
sable to continue the use of alcohol, for the sudden withdrawal 
of its stimulating effect on the organism may give rise to 
rapid collapse. In aged and constitutionally weak persons it 
is also important that its use should be begun early in con- 
siderable quantities. 

In extreme cases as much as an ounce every two hours, or 
twelve ounces in the day, may be given with benefit, but 
ordinarily from six to eight ounces will suffice. There are 
other cases found among robust subjects who do not need 
such stimulating, and possibly may not require alcohol at 
all. The custom now in vogue of prescribing other forms of 
cardiac stimulants, such as strychnine and vasodilators, like 
nitroglycerin, makes the employment of excessive doses of 
alcohol less imperative. It should always be remembered 



350 DIET IN DISEASE 

that it is undesirable to produce toxic symptoms of alcoholism 
in pneumonia, as well as in any other disease. So long as 
the pulse is slowed and its force strengthened, the use of 
alcohol may be regarded as beneticial; but if delirium is in- 
creased, and the odor of whiskey or brandy is strong in the 
breath an hour or two after it has been given, it is an indi- 
cation that the patient is receiving more than is desirable, 
and the dosage should be reduced. From its serving as a 
fuel, and thereby saving tissue waste in the muscles, the free 
use of alcohol in pneumonia undoubtedly saves many lives. 

BRONCHO-PITEUIIONIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. Broncho-pneumonia is always a very 
critical disease, and the utmost care is required in nursing 
and feeding. The diet should consist of such articles as 
meat juice, predigested milk, and egg albumin. Stimulation 
is early required, and in considerable quantity. Brandy or 
whiskey, sweetened with a little sugar, and cold water, should 
be systematically given, especially to young children, who 
are unable to make their want of drink known. Hot milk and 
Vichy, in the proportion of one part of Vichy to two of 
milk for older children, or half-and-half for young infants, 
may have the effect of loosening the tenacious mucous and 
easing the cough. If there is any tendency to flatulency, 
aerated waters had better be avoided. When the disease oc- 
curs in children the diet should be adapted to foster the 
strength and tax the digestive organs as little as possible. 
At first food should be given every two hours, and milk is 
usually all that is required. Later it may be alternated with 
or supplemented by egg albumin, expressed meat juice, plain 
beef or mutton broths, arrowroot, or other gruels. 

MUMPS 
Thompson i 

For mumps no special diet is required, beyt)nd the neces- 
sity of giving fluids or soft food while the swelling of the 

^ W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 351 

parotid glands and fever last. The suggestions for the die- 
tetic treatment of tonsilitis apply to this disease. Anaemia 
is apt to be extreme during convalescence, and meat should 
therefore be plentifully supplied. Cod-liver oil is very ap- 
propriate in protracted convalescence. 

WHOOPING COUGH 
Thompson i 
In whooping cough the paroxysms of coughing are so 
severe as to give rise to vomiting, and in bad cases they are 
excited by taking food which does not have an opportunity 
to become assimilated, and nutrition may suffer very seriously 
in consequence, adding to the general exhaustion which 
accompanies the disease. All food must be made easily as- 
similable. It is best to give food regularly in moderate quan- 
tity at each time, and it should be predigested if neces- 
sary. Pancreatinised milk, kumyss, the prepared amylaceous 
foods, cream toast, eggs, Junket, chicken broth, malted farina- 
ceous foods, custard, milk puddings, gruels thickened with 
meat extracts, and stimulants in the form of egg albumin in 
sherry, egg-nog or milk punch, at-e recommended for patients 
who vomit solid food. The worst cases require nutrient 
enemata, as exhaustion becomes critical. 

DIET IN TTJBERCUIOSIS, ESPECIAIIY PriMONARY CONSTTUP- 

TION 

Before we learned of the contagious character of this affec- 
tion, and its dependence on the tubercle bacillus, it was the 
custom to regard tuberculosis as a disease of nutrition, curable 
only by abundant feeding — all that a patient could tolerate 
— and especially feeding with fats and mineral matter. Even 
in modern times the custom of overfeeding is largely re- 
sorted to, and when the patient has but little appetite, the 
stomach sound is often used to give large quantities of con- 
centrated liquid food, perhaps predigested. Many physicians 
strongly disapprove of this practice, claiming that it is utterly 

' W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.; "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appletou & Co, 



353 DIET IN DISEASE 

irrational and throws an enormous amount of extra work on 
the organs of digestion, assimilation and elimination. 

It is as true, as ever, that a full diet antagonizes the dis- 
ease. A tuberculous subject or one likely to becomp so, is not , 
capable of much physical exertion, and save in the hectic 
fever stage, has not much temperature. The poison of the 
disease deprives him of a natural appetite, and unless he is 
able to assimilate a normal amount of food, he loses iiesh 
progressively, as in any other affection with loss of appetite 
or indigestion. Hence his diet does not differ much from 
that of the convalescent in the composition of food; but 
on account of the enfeebled appetite and digestion the in- 
dividual articles best borne are those used in severe indiges- 
tion from any cause. That is, they are to be concentrated, 
bland, and as varied as possible. As in dyspepsia, the pa- 
tient does best on small and frequent meals. 

Considerable use can be made of milk, cream, buttermilk, 
kumyss, etc. The remarkable and inexplicable curative effects 
of a certain amount of fat in the diet should never be for- 
gotten. The frequent repugnance to fat has in fact been 
connected with the development of disease. This distaste 
does not usually extend to cream, butter and salad oil, and 
many forms of emulsions of fat with or without hypophos- 
phites have a deserved reputation. So important is a cer- 
tain amount of fat that many physicians have it rubbed into 
the skin and even injected subcutaneously. ' The patient is 
not limited to a fixed daily quantity, but is given as much as 
he can tolerate. A certain amount of alcohol in some form 
is so well borne in tuberculosis as to make it a dietetic article 
of value. It is probable that both fat and alcohol act by 
protecting the protein. Both have a high caloric value, sO' 
that the amount of other nutriment can be restricted, and 
should consist largely of eggs, milk and an occasional piece 
of tender meat. 

For an average consumptive, without fever, but with no 
desire for food, six small meals may be given daily. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 353 

1. 8 A. M. Milk, taken slowly, two glasses, with a roll or 
toast and butter and a little marmalade. 

2. 10 A. M. Milk punch, taken slowly. 

3. 1 p. M. A course dinner may be given for the sake of 
variety: cup of broth, a few bites each of fish, beef, potato 
and anything else craved as an entree (as a bit of smoked 
tongue). Also a mouthful or two of some kind of dessert. 
The patient may aid the appetite by taking wine, or some 
form of malt liquor. 

4. 4 p. M. Two glasses milk slowly sipped. 

5. 7 p. M. Like dinner, but much smaller. A plate of 
soup, a chop and a little preserve with a glass of wine. 

6. Bed time. Two glasses of milk slowly sipped. 

In this way up to 2500 calories may be taken without over- 
feeding. If a patient technically tuberculous, but with good 
appetite and digestion can take 3000 to 3500 calories daily 
without discomfort, he may do so, even though his quiet life 
would not otherwise make such a quantity desirable. The 
fat and alcohol which help so materially to swell the number 
of calories tend to fortify the body against" the progress of 
the disease. 

On the other hand, patients in advanced or confirmed 
phthisis can hardly be saved by any plan of feeding. They 
often suffer from severe complications like incessant diarrhoea 
or laryngeal phthisis which make any plan of feeding difficult. 
Each case, therefore, must be a law to itself. The modern 
custom is to feed them all they can tolerate, especially of 
solid food, to supply energy, for the paroxysms of coughing 
and the exertion necessary to dress and get about in the out- 
door air. 

DIET: Soups. — Turtle or oyster soup, mutton, clam or chicken 
broth, purge of barley, rice, peas, beans, cream of celery or tomatoes, 
whole beef tea, peptonised milk gruel. 

Fish. — All kinds of fresh fish, boiled or broiled, oysters or clams, 
raw, roasted or broiled. 

Meats. — Rare roast beef or mutton, lamb chops, ham, fat bacon, 
sweetbreads, poultry, game, tender steaks, hamburger steak rare. 



354 DIET IN DISEASE 

Eggs. — Every way except fried. 

Farinaceous. — Oatmeal, wheaten grits, mush, hominy, rice, whole 
wheat bread, corn bread, milk toast, biscuits, mufiSns, gems. 

Fats. — Cream, butter, olive oil, Scott's Emulsion. 

Yegetailes. — Potatoes, baked, boiled or creamed, string beans, 
spinach, onions, asparagus, tomatoes, green peas, all well cooked, 
cresses, lettuce (alone or with oil dressing), celery. 

Desserts. — Farina, sago, tapioca, apple or milk pudding, floating 
island, custards, baked or stewed apples with fresh cream, cooked 
fruits, rice with fresh cream. 

Liquids. — Fresh milk, cool, warm, or peptonised, cocoa, chocolate, 
buttermilk, pure water, tea, coffee, Liquid Feptonoids. 

AVOID. — Fried foods, salt fish, hashes, gravies, veal, pork, carrots, 
parsnips, cabbage, beets, turnips, cucumbers, macaroni, spaghetti, 
sweets, pies, pastry, sweet wines. 



CHAPTEE XV 
DIET IN DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 

DIET IN DIABETES 

It is commonly believed that diabetes should be managed 
dietetieally by a sugar-and-starch-free regimen, carried to 
such a degree that excess of sugar no longer appears in tlie 
urine. As a matter of fact, such teaching may be very mis- 
leading. A diabetic, in the early stages at least, must lead 
a fairly active life, and requires the usual number of calories 
for such living. If sugars and starches are removed wholly 
from the diet, the requisite calories must be derived from 
protein and fat, and this may prove a strain both on the 
desire for food and its digestion and utilization. It is there- 
fore rational to allow a certain percentage of carbohydrates,, 
as they occur in such common articles of food as bread, 
cereals, potatoes, etc., even if they favor the appearance of 
sugar in the urine. We know that in this disease, the starch 
and sugar in the diet becomes a poison if carried beyond a 
certain stage. The tissues then become saturated with 
saccharine products, and readily succumb to chance infec- 
tions, the microbes of which behave as they do in sweetened 
culture media. But in a vigorous subject leading an active 
life, there is always a point within which the bodily activities 
are sufiBcient to oxidize most of the carbohydrate intake; and 
a certain amount of escape of excess products in the urine is 
then relatively insignificant. 

A characteristic diet is as follows : 

(a) First Breakfast. This should consist of lean and fat 
meat, such as occurs naturally in ham or bacon. For a bev- 
erage we may give coffee sweetened with saccharine. If there 
is a craving for bread, starch-free gluten bread should be 
added. 

355 



356 DIET IN DISEASE 

(b) Second Breakfast. Cream, eggs, beef juice, kumyss, 
or other liquid or semi-liquid food. 

(e) Noon Meal. A course dinner, beginning with broth 
enriched with an egg, meat, or bits of green vegetable. To 
this should be added small portions of fish, roast, entree, game, 
etc. As extras, salad, cheese, etc. Wine, etc. A small 
amount of bread and butter and potatoes if craved. 

First Evening Meal. Coffee and cream, sweetened with 
saccharine. An egg added if craved. 

Second Evening Meal. This, usually served at bed time, 
is meant to give the patient a chance to make up for de- 
ficiencies. He may indulge especially in sapid food, as fish, 
oysters, clams, caviare, sardines, etc., with plenty of salad 
vegetables. Bread and butter, cheese, nuts, etc., if craved 
during the meals of abstention may be given if allowed. 

The foregoing menu is intended for those stages of the 
disease in which the patient profits by some use of carbohy- 
drates. With the advance of the affection, a point is reached 
at which such foods are actually pernicious. It then becomes 
a problem to nourish these individuals with a diet practically 
free from sugars and starches. It is only necessary for the 
nurse to have at hand tables of food containing the exact 
percentage of carbohydrates; for in this way she may protect 
the sufferer. 

A point is reached at last in which a certain excess of carbo- 
hydrates may precipitate a fatal termination. 

DIABETIC DIET OE BELLEVITE HOSPITAL i 

Meat. — Fat beef, mutton, ham and bacon. 

FisTh.— Fieah fish, salted codfish, canned salmon, sardines, oysters 
and clams. 

Farinaceous. — Gluten bread and biscuits. 

Vegetables. — String beans, spinach, lettuce with olive oil and 
vinegar, cabbage, cucumbers, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, asparagus, 
celery, watercress, radishes, pickles and olives. Cream cheese. 

Dessert. — Custards, jellies and creams (without sugar), walnuts, 
Brazil nuts and pecans. 

Drinks.^- Tea, or coffee without sugar, water and buttermilk. 

^ Diet used at Bellevue Hospital, New York. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 357 

DIABETIC DIET OF PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL i 

Buttermilk, kumyss, beef tea, coffee, cocoa, tea, saccharine 
in lieu of sugar, clams (thin soup), fish, poultry, beef, mutton, 
bacon, eggs, string beans, cabbage, tomatoes, lettuce, spinach 
greens, lemons, apples, oranges, strawberries. 

No milk or sugar. 

DIABETIC DIET OE THE MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL z 

DIET. — Meats of all kinds (except liver), fish except lobsters or 
oysters, poultry, game, eggs, cheese, butter, lettuce, celery, cucum- 
bers, watercress, dandelions, young onions, cabbage, cauliflower, 
spinach, beet-tops, string beans, artichokes, filberts, mushrooms, 
almonds, butternuts, walnuts, eocoanut, sour oranges, grape fruits, 
currants, alkaline waters. 

AVOID. — Sugar, syrup of all kinds, potatoes, beets, peas, parsnips, 
carrots, beans, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, oatmeal, barley, sweet fruits, 
chocolate, cider, malt liquors, champagne, sparkling or sweet wines 
and milk. 

STRICT SUGAR-FREE DIET 2 
(Diabetic Diet) 
Diabetic Diet (Strict — Sugar^free). Contains about 20 gms. of 
carbohydrates, calories 2800, proteid 110 gms. 

Breakfast. — Bacon, 100 gms.; eggs, 2; orange, 1; coffee with saccha- 
rine and cream. 11 A. M., Cheese: cream or Swiss, 50 gms. 
Nocn, — Beef, veal, lamb or chicken, 100 gms.; lettuce or tomato salad 
with oil; spinach, onions, cabbage or cauliflower, olives; cus- 
tard made of eggs and cream with saccharine or ice cream 
made the same way. 4 P. M., Soft cooked egg with butter. 
Supper. — Fish, 100 gms.; cucumber salad with oil; asparagus or beet 
tops; mushrooms, nuts; give all cream and butter possible. 
Vary diet within above limits. 60 per cent, centrifugal cream 
is used, diluted with water. 

At start give above diet with addition of 300 gms. bread. 
After two to four days, decrease bread gradually 100 gms. — 
50 gms. to strict diet. 

If acidosis increases with strict diet, give large doses of 
soda. Control in this way, and by changing diet. 

"If patient has increasing acidosis on strict diet add soda 8 

' Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

'Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. 



358 DIET IN DISEASE 

oz. a day, try method of starvation one day, vegetable diet 
(no carbohydrate) one day, oatmeal, 260 grammes one day, 
alternating. The same plan may be tried if there is failure 
to get sugar-free urine on strict diet; but first try plan of 
cutting down protein on strict diet, replacing protein with 
more cream and butter,, as sugar is made from protein. Keep 
on strict diet one month after using sugar-free; then add 
bread 25 gms., etc. 

CHRONIC DIABETES DIET 

DIET. — Soups: Soups or broth of beef, chicken, mutton, veal, 
oysters, clams, terrapin or turtle (not thickened with any farinaceous 
substances), beef tea. 

Fish. — Shell fish and all kinds of fish, fresh, salted, dried, pickled 
or otherwise preserved (no dressing containing flour). 

Eggs. — In any way most acceptable. 

Meats. — Fat beef, mutton, ham or bacon, poultry, sweetbreads, 
<;alf's head, sausage, kidneys, pig's feet, tongue, tripe, game (all 
cooked free of flour, potatoes, bread or crackers ) . 

Farinaceo'us. — Gluten porridge, gluten bread, gluten gems, gluten 
tiseuits, gluten wafers, gluten griddle cakes, almond bread or cakes, 
bran bread or cakes. 

Vegetables. — String beans, spinach, beet- tops, chicory, kale, let- 
tuce, plain or dressed with oil and vinegar, cucumbers, onions, toma- 
toes, mushrooms, asparagus, oyster plant, celery, dandelions, cresses, 
radishes, pickles, olives. 

Desserts. — Custards, jellies, creams (without any sugar), walnuts, 
almonds, filberts, Brazil nuts, cocoanuts, pecans. 

Drinks. — Tea or coffee ( without any sugar ) , pure water, pepto- 
nised milk, buttermilk. 

AVOID. — Liver, sugars, sweets or starches of any kind, wheaten 
bread or biscuits, corn bread, oatmeal, barley, rice, rye bread, arrow- 
root, sago, macaroni, tapioca, vermicelli, potatoes, parsnips, beets, 
turnips, peas, carrots, melons, fruits, puddings, pastry, pies, ices, 
honey, jams, sweet or sparkling wines, cordials, cider, porter, lager, 
chestnuts, peanuts. 

SUBSTITUTES FOB STARCH AND SUGAR 
Gum Oluten Flour can be made into bread and a great variety of 
•dishes, and is the most satisfactory substitute for the wheat flour 
bread or bread in common use, and the effects are particularly no- 
ticeable in the reduction of sugar in the daily tests. 

Sweetina is in the pure crystal form, and is made into a syrup by 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 359 

adding cold water. Distilled water is preferable. It is sold in small 
bottles at 25 cents each, the contents of which is equal to eight pounds 
of sugar in sweetening power. 

One bottle of crystals makes one pint of syrup, of which a tea- 
spoonful is equal to a cupful of sugar. 

Sweetina is an improved product from coal tar. 

A DIABETIC CHAKT 
Joslin and Goodall i 

The intelligent management of a case of diabetes mellitus 
requires frequent comparisons between the diet, the urinary 
analyses and the weight of the patient. These data are often 
printed or written down in four or five different places, and 
the labor of uniting them is so great that it is seldom at- 
tempted. Any accurate study of a case is thus extremely 
difficult, and in hospitals past records are almost useless. To 
facilitate the treatment of diabetic pa,tients and to eliminate 
some of the annoying sources of error, we have used a chart 
for some years upon which some of these facts were recorded. 
Our chart was designed chiefly for the benefit of the physician, 
in contrast to the charts in use in various German clinics, 
which have a broader application and are of direct help not 
only to the physician, but also to the nurse and the patient 
as well. By this latter arrangement the chart becomes the 
nurse's record, and upon it the nurse writes what the patient 
actually eats. We have attempted to combine the two meth- 
ods on the following chart, and hope that it will be found 
helpful and suggestive in the treatment of diabetic patients. 

Space is reserved upon the chart for the Doctor's orders 
and the nurse's record, as well as the urinary analyses. 
There is given, in addition, a statement of the foods com- 
monly allowed in a strict diabetic diet, with the percent of 
carbohydrates in other foods which are occasionally em- 
ployed. 

lA Diabetic Chart by Elliott P. Joslin, M.D., and Harry W. Goodall, 
■ M,D., Boston, Mass. (Reprinted from the Boston Medical and Surgical 
Journal, Vol. clviii, No. 8, pp. 248-261, Feb. 20, 1908.) D. C. Heath & 
Co., 120 Boylston St., Boston, Mass. 



360 



DIET IN DISEASE 



< 
u 

u 

o 

M 

H 
P 
O 



13 






T3 

■a 



fu 






o 



Pi 



(U u 

pqfe 



fa 



fe-S 



^2; 



!M 



ni 
O 



.i 6 






, .St) 






Pi 






> 






w 
M 
Pi 
< 

w 
Pi 



^ p3 



5|§ 



«OOH^N 



O t/1 



01 

fa 



Ph. 



o ca 
HO 



Si's 2 
Cj ™ rt 

■? -S So 



3 

Is 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



36] 















a 
§ 






4) 

a 
a 

P 






§ 

3 






cS 






o 
















u to bo 

■" S? 2 
MSB' 



si e-i. m 



S £^ 

C3 ffl B 
OJ « ^ 



pC n en 

to 03 pfi 

ta 3 o 

s o h 



+ 

o o 






OQM 



5«s 

h o o 



A<pq 



a 
5 



+ 



S3 s >< 

u 2 »> m o E a*3 

^H OJ ta ft 4) ft^ eB^ 



aS5 



I 3 



«U M-I h^ •f-l « 



02 



-" a « ° 



+ 

o 






a 



s^ 






a a a " " o "3 



m 



Pi o oT " 

O rO CO 



fe Efl _, fl (Dm "S 

3 a 3 SOQ) Qj a tj 
a o>4 &i><u ii>>^ 3 






^ 



-g a a acn 



••■si* 



» a=j4 

■ft oooixi 

•a 

p 



'1^ 



51.5 p-c^ ftS P E3 S _- 
ojfta^iuKipMoP^ •-<h 









363 



DIET IN DISEASE 



MENUS FOE THE DIABETIC 

WINTJER 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Porridge, Steak Scrambled Eggs, 



Gluten Toast, 



Coffee. 



Olives, 



Coffee, 



Dinner 

Oysters, Celery Soup, Gluten Biscuit Crisps, 

Boiled Onions, Spinach, 

Shrimp and Lettuce Salad, 

Salted Almonds, 

Baked Custard. 

Supper 
Gluten Crisp in Millc. 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Breakfast Food, 



Parsley Omelet, 



Oyster Steio, 

Celery, 



Gluten Muffins. 
Luncheon 



Coffee, 



Gluten Crackers, 
Tea. 



Bouillon, 



Nuts, 



Dinner 

Creamed Salmon, Olives, 

String . Beans, 

Coffee. 



Pineapple Ice. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Griddle Cakes, 

Codfish Croquettes, Creamed Celery, 

Gluten Bread, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Creamed Dried Beef, 

Cream Cheese, with Lettuce, 

Gluten Toast, Tea 

Grated Pineapple, with Whipped Cream. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



363 



DiNNEB 

Cream of Onion Soup, 
Baked Eggs, Fried Sour Apples, 

Celery, • Pickles, Cabbage Salad, 

Gluten Biscuit Crisps and Cream- Cheese, Coffee Jelly 

WEDNESDAY 

Bre;akfast 
' Oluten French Toast, 



Boiled Eggs, 



Chicken Salad, 
Olives, 



Broiled Lobster, 

Onions, 
Cheese Souffle, 



Cresses, 

Scalloped Oysters, 
Cold Slaw, 



Baked Apples, 
Luncheon 

Dinner 
Tomato Soup, 



THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Granules, 

Luncheon 
Dinner 



Coffee. 



Gluten Bread and Butter, 
Tea. 



Spinach, 



Mayonnaise, 
Coffee. 



Little 'Neck Clams, 
Pickles, Lettuce, Onions, 

Walnut Oluten Biscuit Crisps, 

Pineapple Ice. 



Gluten Muffins. 

11 ut Sandioiches, 
Tea. 

Oyster Plant, 

French Dressing, 
Coffee, 



Mackerel, 



FRIDAY 

Breakfast 
Gluten Breakfast Food, Fried, 



Egg Sauce, 



Gluten Drop Biscuit. 



Luncheon 

Aspic Jelly, with Tongue, 

Lettuce Sandwiches with Gluten Bread, 

Tea, Cream. 



364 DIET IN DISEASE 

Dinner 

Fried Oysters, Celery, Baked Fish, 

Creamed Cabbage, Canned Asparagus, 

Tomato Jelly, Mayonnaise, 

Gluten Nut Sandwiches, 

Club Cheese, Coffee^ 

Sliced Pineapple. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Griddle Cakes, Ham and Eggs, 

Fried Sour Apples, Coffee. 

Lhncheon 

Clam Soup, Gluten Baking Powder Biscuit, 

Xoodles au Gratin and Cheese, Tea. 

DiNNEB 

Fish Croquettes, Tomato Sauce, 
Boiled Chicken, Chestnut Dressing, 



Baked Onions, 


Tomatoes, 


Dressed Celery, 


Cheese, 


STTUKER 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Breakfast Food, 


Coffee. 


Sliced Tomatoes, 




Cresses, 


Gluten Muffins, 


Coffee. 



Dinner 

Asparagus Soup, Broiled Chicken Cresses, 

Green Onions, Creamed, on Gluten Toast, 

I Beet-Tops, Lettuce, French Dressing, 

Gluten Cheese-Crackers, 

Whipped Cream,, with Chopped Nuts, 

flavored with Sweetina and Vanilla, 

Coffee. 

Supper 

Tomato Mayonnaise, 

Gluten Nut Sandiciches, 

Iced Tea, ivith Sweetina. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 365 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Porridge, 

Minced Chicken on Gluten Toast, 

Omelet, with Asparagus Tips, 

Gluten Bread, Coffee 

Luncheon 

Creamed Sweetbreads, 

Gluten Bread and Butter, Tea, Cream. 

Dinner 

Bouillon, Teal Cutlet, 

String Beans, Cucumbers, 

Egg Salad, icith Cresses, French Dressing, 
Coffee Jelly, Whipped Cream. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Pancakes, Fried Perch, 

<lUtten Toast, Boiled Eggs, Radishes, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Codfish Croquettes, Cucumbers, Lettuce, 

Gluten Drop Biscuit, Tea. 

Dinner 

Veal Broth, with Lemon and Parsley, 

Spinach, Tomatoes, 

Asparagus, French Dressing, 

Cheese Souffle, Coffee. 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten BreaJcfast F-ood, 

Frozen Tomatoes, Scrambled Eggs, 

Gluten Bread, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Omelet, with Ham, Lettuce and Onions, 

Gluten Bread, Tea. 

Dinner 

Fried Fish, Cresses, Cold Lamb, 

Baked Onions, Asparagus, 

Cabbage Salad, Gluten Crackers, 

Pineapple Sherbet, Coffee. 



366 DIET IN DISEASE 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Oluten Oriddle Calces, 

Sweetbreads, breaded with gluten crumbs 

and fried, 

Radishes, Gluten Biscuit, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Broiled Mushrooms, 

Olives, Gluten Bread, Tea. 

Dinner 

Cream of Tomato Soup, 

Escalloped Fish, Olives, Gluten Bread, 

Cold Tongue, String Beans, 

Tomatoes, Baked Gluten Noodles, Iced Coffee. 

- ■ FRIDAY 
Breakfast 
Gluten Porridge, Creamed Codfish, 

Coddled Eggs, Gluten Drop Biscuit, 

Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Cheese Pudding, Gluten Sandwiches, 

Gluten Bread, Pineapple Ice Cream, Tea. 

Dinner 

Cream of Spinach Soup, Broiled Shad, 

Tomatoes, Cucumbers, 

Sliced Onions, Asparagus Salad, 

Gluten Nut Sandwiches, 
Cream Cheese, Gluten Wafers, Coffee. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Breakfast Food, Fried, 

Gluten Mu/fins, Tomato Omelet, 

Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Tongue, Shad Roe, 

Gluten Bread and Butter, iced Tea. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 367 

Dinner 

Lamb Broth, Boiled Squab, 

Tomatoes, Cresses, 

Lettuce, Aspio, icith Mayonnaise, Cheese, 

Custard, with Nuts, Iced Coffee. 

LITHEMIA OR EXCESS OF TTSIC ACID 

Treatment for Uric Acid. Exercise in the open air — ■ 
walk — plenty of fresh air by night as well as by day. 
Breathe deeply. Bathe often ; rub the body thoroughly after- 
ward; the skin should play an important part in elimination 
of uric acid. 

To prevent the formation of an over supply of uric acid, 
be careful of diet. The first thing, do not eat meat. You 
may eat nuts with salt, fresh ripe fruit; best of all, apples 
unpeeled; all cooked fruits, but very little sugar in them; 
all vegetables that grow above ground (not those that grow 
below ground) ; greens are especially good, with good cider 
vinegar. Bread may be eaten in moderation, graham and 
entire wheat best, good water crackers, cereals of all kinds; 
eggs should be used sparingly, and in severe cases not at all. 
Fish is good, also shellfish. No pastry or sweet cakes; milk 
and cheese may be used freely, also buttermilk. Drink no 
coffee, tea, malt or alcoholic liquors. Drink pure water and 
a great deal of it ; sometimes it is well to use lithia tablets. 

ACUTE GOUT 

Dietetic Treatment. During acute attacks the diet must 
be restricted, but the extent of restriction will depend upon 
age, habits and conditions of the patient. 

Meat and alcohol as a rule are excluded. As a rule it is 
best to exclude meat, more especially red meat, and, unless 
especially necessary, forbid alcohol. In old people, with 
feeble circulation, accustomed to the regular and free use of 
alcohol, it may be necessary to allow a small amount. If the 
kidneys be seriously at fault it may be best not even to give 
small amount of alcohol. 

For the young and strong the diet should consist mainly 



3G8 DIET IN DISEASE 

of farinaceous substances and broths, made not too strong, 
such as bread and milk, a cup of weak tea with milk, dry 
toast with a little butter, vegetable broths, two ounces of milk 
with Vichy water ; rice, sago, semolina or an farinaceous pud- 
ding made without eggs. 

He should sip half a pint of hot water twice or thrice 
daily between meals, and barley water and toast water may 
be allowed. After acute symptoms have subsided, boiled fish 
and a little chicken may be given once a day, and nourish- 
ment carefully and gradually increased. 

Por old or feeble persons the diet, although kept in same 
lines, must be more supporting; have broths, etc., stronger, 
and beef juice, chicken broth and an egg beaten up in a 
glass of milk once a day. Alcohol may also be necessary. 

In protracted cases it may be necessary to allow more 
nutritious diet, including fish, soup and white meats, as well 
as an allowance of brandy or whiskey. 

CHRONIC GOUT 

DIET : Soups. — Clear vegetable broths, fresh fish soup. 

Fish. — Fresh fish broiled or boiled, raw oysters. 

Meats. — Eat of all kinds sparingly, game, chicken, fat bacon. 

Farinaceous. — Crackers, dry toast, milk toast, macaroni, graham 
bread or rolls, rye bread, whole wheat bread, or biscuit, cereals. 

Vegetables. — Celery, lettuce, cresses, cucumbers, cabbage, spinach, 
string beans, green peas, mashed potatoes. 

Desserts. — (All without sugar). Plain milk puddings, junket, rice 
and milk. Stewed fruits. 

Liquids. — Pure water, hot or cold; toast water, buttermilk, milk, 
malted milk, weak tea (no sugar). 

AVOID. — Champagne, sweet wines, malt liquors, cider, coffee, 
tobacco, dried fruits, nuts, cheese, sweets, pastry, pies, spices, rich 
puddings, fried dishes, vinegar, pickles, lemons, rhubarb, mush- 
rooms, asparagus, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, gravies, patties, rich 
soup, eggs, lobster, salmon, crabs, mackerel, eel, veal, pork, goose, 
duck, turkey; salted, dried, potted or preserved fish or meat (except 
fat bacon). 

ACUTE RHETJMATISU 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. While the fever lasts and other symp- 

> W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : ' ' Practical Dietetics.' ' New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 369 

toms are acute, such as pain and swelling of the joints, the 
patient should be put upon a fluid diet. The majority of 
cases do best at this time with an exclusive milk or bread- 
and-milk diet. Those patients who cannot take milk, how- 
ever, may be allowed soups and broths flavored with vegetable 
extracts, chicken tea, milk toast, barley or oatmeal gruel, 
clam broth. 

Thirst is often a prominent symptom, especially if there- 
be much fever, and it is advisable for the patient to drink 
fluid freely to assist in washing out the waste products from 
the body. Lemonade and slightly acid drinks of various 
kinds, such as dilute phosphoric acid or the effervescent min- 
eral waters, are recommended. Boiled milk and Seltzer or 
Vichy may be drunk, or oatmeal or barley water flavored 
with lemon. Alcohol should be avoided while the acute symp- 
toms last, unless the complication of inflammation of the 
endocardium or pericardium enfeeble the heart action, if pro- 
longed and ansemia is considerable, alcohol may be given as 
a tonic two or three times a day in the form of a glass of 
claret or Burgundy (one to two ounces), or diluted whiskey. 

During convalescence the appetite is not usually vigorous,, 
and it is not necessary to urge the taking of much food at 
first. The diet 'should be principally farinaceous, but not 
saccharine. 

Such articles may be-given as rice (plain or spiced), arrow- 
root, oatmeal, cornmeal, semolina, wheaten grits, panada, milk 
toast, simple unsweetened puddings, wine jelly, blanc-'mange 
and malted foods. 

The return to solid diet should be gradual, and for a long^ 
time the patient should abstain from eating meats as well as 
from pastry and sweets. Fagge states that no meat or fish 
should be allowed for at least a week after subsidence of the 
fever and acute symptoms, or, better, for a fortnight, and 
many believe that beef tea is harmful. Meat can undoubtedly 
induce a relapse. 

When convalescence becomes established, eggs, fish, oysters, 
and white, meat of broiled or roasted chickens may be given,. 



SrO DIET IN DISEASE 

and one or two such vegetables as asparagus, spinach, or 
stewed celery, with a baked apple or fresh fruit, but sweets 
and alcohol should long be withheld. 

The patient should be fed often, having one or two extra 
lunches during the day, for anaemia is apt to prevail for some 
time, and abundant nutriment is required. 

KHEUMATISU 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 
BIET. — Graham or brown bread, white bread limited (% slice 
daily), corn, granum, rice, milk, eggs, flour, puddings, crackers, 
beans, peas, all kinds of vegetables (except potatoes aiid cooked 
tomatoes), rhubarb, fresh fish; butter, cheese, buttermilk, cream, 
alkaline waters, toast. 

AVOID. — ^Red meats, starch or potatoes, white bread, sugars. 

CHRONIC RHETTUATISK 

DIET: Soup. — Beef tea, chicken and mutton broth in small 
quantities. 

Fish. — Raw oysters or clams, white fleshed fresh fish — broiled or 
boiled. 

Meat. — Sweetbreads, chicken, tripe, broiled fat bacon or boiled 
ham ( all sparingly ) . 

Farinaceous. — Boston brown bread, corn, whole wheat bread, 
cornstarch, rice, milk toast, dry toast, graham bread, granum, butter, 
crackers. 

Vegetables. — All except potatoes and cooked tomatoes. 

Desserts. — Plain puddings, rhubarb; junket (all without sugar). 

Liquids. — Milk, cream, buttermilk, malted milk, alkaline waters, 
tea, cocoa (no sugar), pure water, plain or with lemon or lime (no 
sugar). . 

AVOID. — Red meats, pork, turkey, goose, duck, veal, fried fish, 
cooked oysters or clams, salted, dried, potted or preserved fish or 
meats (except ham and bacon). Lobsters, crabs, salmon, eggs, rich 
pies, made dishes, gravies, potatoes, tomatoes, asparagus, mushrooms, 
rich puddings, candies, nuts, cheese, coffee, cider, malt liquors, wines. 

DIET IN OBESITY 

This is one of the most important features of ' dietetic 
therapy, and is older and better known than any other, prob- 
ably because of its connection with conditioning athletes for 

'Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 371 

all kinds of contests and also from the cosmetic point of 
view, as superfluous flesh generally implies advanced years. 
Unlike many other plans of diet it concerns the nominally 
healthy rather than the sick and invalid. 

The old trainer of athletes knew little or nothing of any 
scientific regimen for reducing adipose tissue. For him re- 
duction of weight was merely a matter of getting rid of 
superfluous water, to be accomplished by sweating, purgation 
and abstinence from fluids. He rejected certain articles of 
diet as "bad for the wind," but this is as near as he came 
to specializing in diet. Exercise, without profuse perspira- 
tion, meant nothing to him. The steady grind of a worker 
who burns up so much, excess fat daily, yet without any un- 
usual degree of perspiration, is something he took no account 
of. 

Of recent years it has been learned that abstinence, hoi; 
baths and purgation, are far less efficacious in keeping down 
weight than continuous and vigorous exercise within the fa- 
tigue limit. It is much less a matter of starvation and 
elimination than of a steady oxidation of superfluous tissue 
by graded and varied exercises extending throughout the day. 
But while constant exercise is the chief essential, it is also 
important to curb the appetite for food and drink, and to- 
keep the excretory organs active. Otherwise, in the ease of 
novices at least, increased exercise will provoke increased, 
appetite for food and drink, so that not a few people gain 
flesh while trying to lose it. 

Doubtless the best plan for reducing flesh without suffering 
and violence is to do a great amount of work daily, severe 
enough in character to oxidize much body fat, but without 
profuse waste of fluids by sweating, etc. In regard to the 
meals, these should be small, light and as frequent as desired. 
Nothing should be taken to provoke thirst. Any food-article 
whatever which is especially rich in starch, sugar or fat, along 
with alcoholics, must be omitted. Such individuals thrive 
best on toast or biscuit without butter; lean meats, fish and 
eggs; and vegetables which grow' above ground. 



372 DIET IN DISEASE 

The selection of food differs but little from the diabetic 
regimen, but some carbohydrates are allowed, while the fatty 
articles, including milk, permissible in diabetes, are to be 
avoided. The patient is not to be stinted in quantity pro- 
vided he takes the necessary amount of exercise. He may 
breakfast freely on eggs, meat and toast, dine on meats and 
salad vegetables, etc. He should take as little fluid as pos- 
sible with his meals, but may quench his thirst between meals. 
vBy masticating his food thoroughly he materially reduces the 
demand, and does away with eating for the mere sake of eat- 
ing. 

By simple measures of this sort an individual may reduce 
his weight to as great degree as desirable, and the process 
will not be painful but the reverse. ■ He simply oxidizes and 
otherwise utilizes a little more matter than he takes in, and 
thereby prevents a pathological and unsafe accumulation of 
Jat. 

DIET: Fish. — All fresh white fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Lean mutton or Iamb, beef chicken, game (sparingly). 

Eggs. — Cooked in all ways (not fried). 

Farinaceous. — Dry toast or crusts, stale bread (sparingly). 

Vegetables. — Lettuce, celery, spinach, cresses, asparagus, cauli- 
flowers, white cabbage, onions, tomatoes, radishes, olives. 

Liquids. — Coffee or tea, one cup without milk, cream or sugar; 
pure water one glass, drank slowly after the meal. 

AVOID. — Dark flesh fish, rich soups, salt fish, veal, pork, sausage, 
fats, potatoes, oatmeal, hominy, macaroni, spices, rice, carrots, beets, 
turnips, parsnips, puddings, pastry, pies, sugar, sweets, cakes, 
«ream, milk, spirituous liquors, beers, sweet rums, champagne. 



CHAPTER XVI 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

ACUTE GASTRITIS 
Einhorn i 

During the first or second day of illness it is best not to 
give the patient anything substantial to eat. Strained barley 
or rice water, or weak tea may be taken. On the third day,, 
as soon as the appetite reappears, the patient is permitted to 
partake of water soup (bread and hot water) oatmeal or bar- 
ley gruel, rice soup, and perhaps one soft-cooked egg. Later 
on French bread, butter and oysters may be added to the 
dietary. 

If the improvement is steadily progressing the fourth day 
begin with meat once a day, and thus slowly return to the 
usual bill of fare. 

CHRONIC GASTRITIS 
Einhorn ^ 

The regulation of the diet is of prime importance in the 
treatment. The dietary to be selected will depend on the 
severity of the symptoms." 

At the beginning, therefore, a light diet will be called 
for. The patient should partake of four meals daily. The 
articles of food should be given largely in liquid and semi- 
liquid forms; that is, milk, kumyss, matzoon, barley, oat- 
meal, and rice soup prepared in milk; chicken soup with an 
egg beaten up in it ; soft-cooked eggs, mashed potatoes, scraped 
meat, raw, or boiled, toasted bread, and also French white 
bread (not too fresh) ; butter; tea and cocoa. 

•Max Einhorn, M.D. : "Disease of the Stomach." New York. Wil- 
liam Wood & Co. 

373 



'374: DIET IN DISEASE 

The quantity of nourishment for each meal should neither 
he excessively large nor too small. 

My own bill of fare for the first week of the treatment is as 
follows : 

lEiglit o'clock: Calories. 

Two eggs 160 

Two ounces of French white bread 156 

One-half ounce of butter 107 

One cup of tea (100 gm. of tea, .150 gm. milk) 101 

Sugar 10 gm. (3 iiss.) 40 

Half past ten o'clock: 

Kumyss or matzoon or milk, 250 gm. (J viii. Vs) 168 

Crackers, 30 gm. (one ounce) 107 

Butter, 20 gm. (3 v.) 163 

Half past twelve o'clock: 

Two ounces of tenderloin steak, or of white meat of chicken . 76 

Mashed potatoes, or thick rice, 100 gm. (3 iii. %) 127 

White bread, two ounces 153 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 

One cup of cocoa, 200 gm. (5 vi. %) 101 

Half past three o'clock: 

TJhe same as half past ten 438 

Half past six o'clock: 

Farina, hominy, or rice boiled in milk, one plateful, 250 gm. 

(3 viii. 1/3) 440 

Two scrambled eggs 160 

Bread, two ounces 156 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 



2.863 



The patient having been kept on this diet for a week or 
two, the diet must be gradually changed to one suitable for 
the lighter forms of chronic gastritis. Here the following 
rule will apply: The diet should correspond as nearly as 
possible to the common mode of living. In this way the dis- 
tribution of the meals should be arranged according to the 
customs prevailing in those places in which the patient lives. 

All food derived from the vegetable kingdom should be 
given in large portions, while the quantity of meat should be 
somewhat limited. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 375 

In order to permit the patient to have a greater variety 
in his food, it is best not to point out a few articles he 
should eat, but to mention only those he should avoid. For- 
bid meat with very tough fibers, meat from too old animals 
or too fresh meat (right after slaughtering), meat that con- 
tains too much fat, like pork; forbid sausages, lobster, sal- 
mon, chicken salad, mayonnaise, cucumbers, pickles, cabbage, 
strong alcoholic drinks like liquors. 

It must be impressed upon the patient to masticate the 
food thoroughly, to eat slowly, not to think of business dur- 
ing meals, and to stop eating before the sensation of satiety 
appears. The latter advice is only necessary in persons who 
are accustomed to high living. 

Chronic gastric catarrh is frequently combined with con- 
stipation. The diet can be arranged as to facilitate move- 
ment of the bowels. All foods which contain a large per- 
centage of cellulose (undigested matter) increase the quantity 
of feces, thereby effecting a stronger peristalsis of the larger 
bowel. 

All kind of green vegetables (spinach, asparagus, green 
peas) and rye bread are therefore very suitable. Many or- 
ganic acids possess the property of increasing intestinal peri- 
stalsis. Almost all kinds of fruits contain a certain quantity 
of these organic acids, and act like mild aperients. The use 
of cooked pears, stewed or baked apples, stewed prunes, is in 
many instances effective. Ewald recommends a mixture of 
two parts of prunes to one part of dried figs. The taste is 
agreeable, and the cathartic action mild. The custom of 
eating an orange in the morning for its laxative effect is well 
known. To these dietary remedies we may also add the use 
of a glassful of either very cold or warm water, or a glass of 
milk in arising, in the fasting condition. 

There are many persons in whom one of these latter means 
produces a good movement of the bowels. 



376 DIET IN DISEASE 

ULCER OF THE STOUACH 
Einhorn i 

The diet consists of liquids — milk, milk with strained 
barley, or oatmeal, or rice water; plain water, weak tea and 
peptone (one teaspoon to a cup of water). Debove and 
Pemond have suggested the addition of lactose and of meat 
powder to the milk, in order to make the diet richer in 
nourishment substances. 

As a rule, we employ the above-named additions, which 
fulfill the same purposes, besides varying the monotonous bill 
of fare. 

Pirst week. During the first week we give the patient half 
a cup (about 100-150 c.c.) of either, every hour. Every- 
thing the patient takes must be neither cold or very warm, 
and should be taken slowly (sipping, or with a spoon). 

Second week. During the second week we order the same 
kind of food, with this difference, that he is nourished every 
two hours, and gets a cupful or a cupful and a half (200 to 
300 e.e.) at a time. 

Occasionally we now allow the patient one raw egg beaten 
up in the milk, once or twice a day. In the beginning of the 
third week we feed the patient every three hours; he is al- 
lowed barley, farina, and rice (well cooked) in milk, soft- 
cooked eggs, crackers softened in milk, in. addition to his 
previous foods; in the third day of the third week we begin 
to give the patient meat, first raw, well scraped, then broiled. 

Thereafter we go over to the ordinary daily diet, exclud- 
ing heavy salads, pastrj^, raw fruit and the like. 

In the following table I give an outline of diet which I 
ordinarily prescribe in this affection: 

OTJIIIITE OF DIET IN GASTRIC ULCER 

FiKST Three Days 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M.: milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

8 " milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

'Max Kinhorn, M.D. : "Disease o( the Stomach." New York. Wil- 
liam Wood & Co. 



DISEASES OP THE STOMACH 37Y 

9 A. M. ; milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

10 " milk and strained barley water (aa, 150 C.C.) .... 80 

11 " milk, 150 C.C 101 

12 " milk, 150 C.C 101 

1 p. M. : bouillon either alone or with the addition of one to 

two teaspoonfuls of a peptone preparation, 150 

C.C 30 

2 " milk 101 

3 " milk 101 

4 " milk 101 

5 " milk with strained barley or oatmeal 80 

6, 7, 8, 9 p. M. : milk, 150 C.C 404 



1.402 
Fourth to the Tenth Day 

Number 
of Calories. 

7 A. M.: milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

11 " milk with barley, rice, or oatmeal water, 300 C.C. . 160 
1 p. sr. : one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, and one egg beaten 

up in it 80 

3 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

5 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

7 " milk with barley water, 300 C.C 100 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



1.410 
Eleventh to the Fourteenth Day 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M. -. milk, 300 C.C 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers softened (one ounce) 100 

11 " milk with barley water, 300 C.C 160 

1 p. M. : one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, one egg, and two 

crackers 180 

3 " milk, 300 C.C.,. and one egg 282 

5 " milk, 300 C.C, 202 

and two crackers 100 

7 " milk, with barley water 160 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

1.790 



378 DIET IN DISEASE 

FOUBTEENTH TO THE SEVENTEENTH DAT 

Number oi 
Calories. 

7 am.: milk, 300 C.C 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers (one ounce) 100 

11 " milk with barley, 300 C.C 342 

1 P. M. : scraped meat, 50 gm 60 

two crackers, one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 100 

3 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

5 " milk, 300 CO 202 

one egg (soft boiled) 80 

two crackers 100 

7 " milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



2.134 
Seventeenth to Twenty-Fourth Day 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M.: two eggs (soft boiled) 160 

butter, lOgm 81 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

10 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

1 p. M : lamb chops (broiled) , 50 C.C 60 

mashed potatoes, 50 gm 44 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

butter, 10 gm. ; one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 81 

4 " the same as at 10 A. M 530 

6 :30 " milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



2.820 



In cases of ulcer of the stomach presenting a more severe 
type — violent pains, frequent vomiting, inability to take 
food on account of the pains — or after haematemesis, I 
usually have the patient abstain from any food whatever. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 379 

given by the mouth, for a period of five days. The patient 
is then fed by the rectum. This is done in the following way : 
early each morning the patient receives a large enema of 
about a quart of lukewarm water, in which a teaspoonful of 
common tablesalt has been dissolved as a cleansing enema. 
About an hour after the patient has emptied the injected 
water, the first nourishing enema is given; this may consist 
either of a glassful of milk (about 200 c.c.), in which a raw 
egg has been well beaten and a pinch of salt added, or of a 
cupful of water in which a tablespoon of a good peptone 
preparation has been dissolved. The temperature of either 
must be about 100° P. Such a nourishing enema is given 
three or four times a day. The quantity of the feeding enema 
is 200-250 c.c, and it is slowly injected by means of a foun- 
tain syringe and a soft-rubber rectal tube., The patient may 
frequently wash his mouth with cold water, and is allowed 
from time to time to keep a small piece of chopped ice in 
his mouth, and to swallow the melted water. The five days 
being over, the mode of diet is the same as described above 
for the ordinary form of ulcer. 

GASTRIC ULCER DIET 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 

1. Dr. Hewes's Diet for Gastric and Duodenal Ulcer. Two 
oz. milk, 1 soda cracker (powdered), 1 oz. sugar, every two 
hours. Give two to three days, then increase to 6-8 oz. milk, 
1-2 oz. sugar, 4 soda crackers, every two hours. Continue 
for two to three weeks, then adopt the following : Eight feed- 
ings in 24 hrs. : (1) milk and crackers; (3) Indian meal 
porridge with cream or salt; (3) potato pur^e, jelly; (4) 
milk and whites of two eggs; (5) soft custard; (6) hot choco- 
late; (7) pea puree strained through fine wire mesh; (8) 
milk and crackers. 

2. "The Lenhartz Diet." The "Lenhartz diet" begins 
with 100 c.c. milk and one egg daily, in teaspoonful doses, 

J Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 

Dr. Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massacliusetts General Hospital. 



380 



PIET IN DISEASE 



gradually increasing until at the end of four weeks a liberal 
mixed diet is allowed, always avoiding coarse vegetables and 
irritating substances. 

The gradual increase of food appears in the accompanying 
scale. 

In preparing the eggs they are beaten very light, without 
salt, a small amount of sugar frequently added, the bowl kept 
in a pan of cracked ice. At first the milk is given with 
shaved ice. Some of the milk, eggs, and sugar are made into 
custard on the tenth day. The beef is scraped and weighed, 
after cooking; the ham is chopped very fine; occasionally 
lime water has to be added to the milk, and, if large curds 
form, the milk is diluted with barley water. Great care is 
exercised in the transition stages from liquids to semi-solids 
and finally to full diet. 



Lenhartz' Diet 



(3 


1 


s 


% 
5 


1 


1 


IS) 


1 


1 

3 






1 


1 


CO. 

200 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Cms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 






2 


2 


200 
















3 


3 


300 


















4 


4 


400 


20 
















5 


5 


500 


20 
















6 


6 


600 


30 
















7 


7 


700 


30 


35 












8 


8 


800 


40 
40 


70 


100 












9 


8 


900 


70 


100 


20 










10 


8 


1000 


50 


70 


200 


40 
40 










11 


8 


1000 


SO 


70 


200 


SO 


20 






12 


8 


1000 


30 


70 


300 


60 


50 


40 




, 








Continue for 3 weeks 









CHAPTEE XVII 

DIET IN INTESTINAL DISEASES 

DIET IN DYSPEPSIA 

Modern clinical medicine does not recognize such a dis- 
ease as dyspepsia. In a great variety of local and general 
conditions digestion is more or less disordered. It may be 
too rapid, too slow, difficult, imperfect for one or more of 
the classes of foods, or abolished outright. Specialists base 
diets largely on the results of test-meals, so that the diet in 
a given case becomes individualized. If a person with ordi- 
nary symptoms of chronic indigestion is to be dieted, and. 
the cause of the affection is not known, the regimen for 
chronic gastritis will answer (p. 373). But if in addition 
to indigestion there is unusual irritability of the stomach, the 
diet must consist of most easily digested articles of solid food, 
and if necessary of semi-solid or liquid food. In other words, 
he is dieted like a convalescent from some severe acute dis- 
ease, or a child at weaning time. 

DIET : Soup. — Oysters and thin, clear beef and mutton soup. 

Fish. — Fresh mackerel, bass, perch, shad, cod, raw oysters. 

Meats. — Game, sweetbreads, tender meats, chopped meats, broiled 
calf's head, tongue, tripe, lamb, chicken, mutton and beef. 

Eggs. — Eggs raw, soft and hard cooked. 

Farinaceous. — Graham bread, whole wheat bread, corn bread, 
stale bread, dry toast, crackers, tapioca, sago, cornstarch, rice, oats, 
hominy, cracked wheat. 

Vegetailes. — Asparagus, celery, cresses, lettuce, green peas, string 
beans, sweet corn, spinach. 

Desserts. — Ripe fruit — raw or stewed ; apple tapioca, apple snow, 
baked apples, custards, junkets, rice, tapioca, cornstarch, or bread 
puddings. 

Liquids. — Liquid Peptonoids on cracked ice, pure cold water, hot 
water and milk (equal parts), malted milk, weak tea and coffee, not 

381 



'^83 DIET IN DISEASE 

more than one cup at a time and taken slowly after a meal; un- 
fermented grape juice. 

AVOID. — Ice water, spirituous liquors, nuts, cheese, ice cream, 
pastry, pies, candies, salmon, lobster, crabs, sausages, ducks, goose, 
salted, smoked or preserved fish; pickled, potted, corned or cured 
meats, kidney, liver, fried foods, gravies, potatoes, turkey, stews, 
hashes, pork, veal, rich soups, chowder. 

DIET IN CONSTIPATION 

It is almost as difficult to prescribe a diet for constipation 
as it is for dyspepsia, and for the same reason, namely, con- 
stipation is not in itself a disease, but a symptom or result of 
many diseases. As a general rule, however, a certain diet is 
more or less suitable for any kind of constipation. By the 
latter term we usually mean a delayed action of the bowels 
due to a natural weakness of the muscles of the intestines, or 
to an acquired weakness due to too concentrated a form of 
'nourishment or to a sedentary life. In a certain percentage 
of cases the delayed action of the bowels is due to temporary 
spasm of the intestinal muscle, and this may even occur in 
association with weakness of the muscle, as is seen in hysteri- 
cal women. There is finally delayed bowel action in a great 
number and variety of diseases. 

The resources employed in treating the diseases which 
cause constipation include many plans beside diet, yet the 
latter is indispensable. 

A mixed diet is very necessary, for purely animal food 
products, as meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, etc., conduce to 
constipation because absorption of such foods is so nearly 
complete that not enough residue remains in the intestines to 
stimulate peristalsis. On the other hand, a diet of vegetables, 
involving a large indigestible residue, causes large fecal mo- 
tions, but these are not promptly expelled unless the intestine 
is healthy. Much extra work is thrown upon the intestine 
when a vegetarian diet is used exclusively; and as a result 
of such excessive work the intestine becomes in time weak- 
ened. 

Constipation from whatever cause and of whatever nature 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 383 

may be, when sufBciently pronounced, sufficient to render a 
healthy man or woman sick. Digestion becomes impaired, 
appetite lost. This fact alone teaches us that in dieting a 
constipated subject we often have to deal with a sick in- 
dividual. It has often been stated that a patient or his life- 
long companions are better judges as to his diet than a 
physician hastily consulted. 

Ewald, and doubtless most stomach specialists, are opposed 
to an exclusive calorie plan of feeding in all gastro-intestinal 
diseases. This is natural because food which is theoretically 
indicated cannot be managed by the digestive organs. If an 
attempt is made to feed a patient thus affected with 3000 
calories of food, the result will be complete repugnance to 
all food. The amount of food ingested in these cases, in 
the most palatable and digestible form, cannot come up to 
the calorie standard. The quantity ingested in such pa- 
tients is so low as to be quite beneath the efficient level. The 
inference is natural that such patients must draw on their 
reserve fund to make up the calories. 

Hence the only course to pursue is to cure the condition 
which causes the constipation as soon as possible. For mere 
sluggish action of the bowels, not amounting to disease, many 
popular dietetic remedies are employed. It is by no means 
certain that this delayed action in many healthy persons is 
other than natural or temperamental. Fletcher has shown 
that as a result of his reduced diet and excessive mastication 
of food which contains not much indigestible residue, sterile 
and odorless feces are formed which cause no discomfort, and 
insists that such people need have no anxiety about their 
bowels. On the other hand, very many people who have reg- 
ular daily evacuations suffer from retention, of fecal matter; 
only careful palpation of the sigmoid flexure will inform us 
as to whether the bowels are actually empty. 

Of household dietetic procedures for securing daily evacua- 
tions, the most common is the drinking of cold water on ris- 
ing — one, two or more glasses. To this a little common salt 
may be added. Many men depend for their morning evacua- 



384 DIET IN DISEASE 

tion on smoking a cigar after breakfast. Women, as already 
stated, find, the morning draught of cold water valuable. 
The use of fruit at or before breakfast often causes an evacua- 
tion during the day. This is true especially of apples, pears, 
oranges, etc. Buttermilk is also largely used for this purpose. 
The vegetable acids with the large amount of indigestible 
residue make certain fruits valuable as laxatives. This is 
true also of berries, although those which contain tannin 
(blackberries) may tend to constipate. Dried fruits, such as 
figs and prunes are especially useful. The! use of sweet cider 
as a marked laxative seems to illustrate again the laxative 
power of vegetable acids. Very sweet substances in large 
amounts, chiefly honey and molasses are notably laxative. 
Oatmeal, among the cereal foods, is noted for its laxative 
powers. Beans and peas, popularly believed to be laxative, 
are really constipating; but the fermentation of the large 
amount of cellulose gives the illusion of impending diarrhoea. 
Oils and fats are laxative to many people. A word of cau- 
tion must here be inserted. Many of these substances care- 
lessly spoken of as laxatives, often behave as violent purga- 
tives, especially in individuals who alternate between consti- 
pation and diarrhoea. The severe diarrhoea set up at times 
by sweet cider, molasses and other relatively inert sub- 
stances should teach us caution in giving such articles to 
patients. 

No more important hygienic regimen can be adopted than the fol- 
lowing: 1. Eat fruit before retiring (experiment and find what 
fruit seems to agree). 2. Three-quarters of an hour before breakfast 
drink two glasses of cold water and exercise ten minutes in room 
before open window or take a brisk walk. If this regimen were 
followed daily by children and grown people there would be less 
illness. 

DIET: Soup. — Oyster soup, meat broths, Liquid Peptonoids bouil- 
lon. . V - -■ 

Fish. — Raw oysters, fresh fish of all kinds broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Game, poultry, almost any fresh meats. ._ 

Farinaceous. — Rye bread, brown bread, graham, corn and whole 
wheat bread, hominy, mush, cereals. Educator Bran Cookies. 

Yegetables. — Salads with oil, string beans, green peas, green corn. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 385 

asparagus, potatoes, cauliflower, spinach, brussels sprouts, onions, 
boiled. 

Desserts. — Simple and light-apple and fig puddings, plain pud- 
ding, as custards, whips, and gelatin, etc., junkets, ice cream, sherbet, 
ices, hominy, raisins, cherries, huckleberries (the blue seedless kind), 
grapes, melons, apples, oranges, pears, ripe peaches, baked apples, 
with cream, figs, stewed prunes. 

Liquid. — Unfermented grape juice, plenty of pure water, cold or 
hot; black coffee, cocoa, new cider, buttermilk, orange juice, malted 
milk. -^ — — — ~" 

AVOID. — Spirii^uous liquors, pineapple, cheese, nuts, tea, sweets, 
milk, pastry, rich puddings, rice, tapioca, new bread, eggs, liver, 
pork, salt, smoked, potted or preserved fish or meats. 

DIET Iir DIARRHOEA 

« 

The term diarrhoea, like dyspepsia and constipation, repre- 
sents only a symptom or result of various diseases. While 
this affection cannot be cured by a dietetic plan alone, certain 
foods are known to be constipating and in treating the under- 
lying conditions attention to diet is all-important. It con- 
sists as much in avoiding laxative articles as in using consti- 
pating articles. Thus cheese and hard-boiled eggs are highly 
constipating to most individuals, yet they could not be em- 
ployed in a diarrhoea which Vfas due to or associated with 
gastritis. Hence foods known to be constipating must also 
be bland and easily digested. Food nearly all of which may 
be absorbed naturally antagonizes diarrhoea from any cause. 
The commonest articles used in this class are flour porridge,^ 
cooked white of eggs, boiled milk, toasted crackers, zwieback, 
rice, chocolate. Meat should be of the most tender and diges- 
tible nature, as sweetbreads, tongue, tenderloin of beef, etc. 
Dried beef powder may be mixed with 5 per cent, tannic acid. 
Articles which naturally contain the latter are useful if di- 
gestible. Acorn coffee is recommended by some. 

In a daily menu compiled by Ewald the following articles 
enter : Acorn coffee, soft eggs, milk, toasted bread, zwieback, 
scraped beef, breast of chicken, the most digestible kinds of 
fish, soups and broths (to the latter may be added Dry Pep- 
tonoids Soluble, nutrose and other semi-proprietory condensed 



386 DIET IN DISEASE 

protein foods). Articles used in diet list for constipation 
must be avoided. 

Uassachusetts General Hospital i 

DIET. — Stale bread, dry toast, crackers, butter, rice, soft cooked 
*ggs, eggs and milk, flour and milk puddings, boiled and peptonised 
milk, tea, custards, blanc-mange, wine jelly, oatmeal, oysters, gruel, 
chicken. 

AVOID. — Soups, animal broths, fresh bread, fruits, vegetables, 
fried dishes, ilsh, saccharine foods, salt meats, veal, lamb and pork. 

DYSENTERY 
Thompson 2 

During an attack of acute dysentery the patient should be 
kept absolutely quiet in bed, and should not be allowed to 
rise for the movement of the bowels, making use of a bed- 
pan instead. Throughout the active stage the diet must be 
strictly confined to easily digestible food, and in most cases it 
is wisest to give only predigested fluid articles. Peptonised 
or pancreatinized milk, or boiled milk, pressed-meat Juice, 
whey, or raw egg albumin beaten with sherry and flavored 
with nutmeg are recommended. Many patients do best upon 
a diet of raw scraped beef or meat balls. 

In cases of acute dysentery, and especially in the amcebie 
form, the loss of strength, ansemia, and emaciation progress 
very rapidly, and the strength must be supported by stimula- 
tion, for which brandy is preferable to whiskey. 

During convalescence the diet must be very cautiously in- 
creased, and confined to food which is promptly and com- 
pletely digested, leaving but little residue. For this purpose 
animal food should be chiefly eaten, while fish, tender beef- 
steak, roast beef, boiled or broiled chicken, eggs, custard, 
blanc-mange, dry toast, junket, well-boiled rice, or wine Jelly, 
may be given. All fruits and vegetables must be forbidden, 
and butter and cream should be taken sparingly. 

If the disease occurs in infancy, the child, if possible, 
should be fed at the breast. Otherwise all milk and water 

^ Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 
= W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Apj>leton & Co. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 387 

given should be Pasteurized. Beef tea and mutton broth 
may be allowed in moderation, and special care should be 
observed not to overfeed. 

DIET FOR ACUTE COLITIS (DYSENTEET) 
Ilassachusetts General Hospital t 
Purge and starve one day, then: lean meat, 100 gms., 3 
times daily ; albumin water of 3 eggs, 6-8 times daily. Con- 
tinue for 4 days, then add : skimmed milk, 16 oz. ; toast (no 
butter), 3 slices with maple syrup; rice, 50 gms. daily. After 
10 days increase toast, give butter, macaroni, tapioca, cream 
cheese and Indian meal mush. 

CHRONIC DYSENTERY 

Thompson 2 ' 

Chronic dysentery is often best treated by an exclusive 
milk diet of from two and a half to three quarts a day, with 
rest in bed or on the lounge. In other cases rare steak or 
roast beef or chicken and egg albumin may be allowed, with 
dry toast, zwieback, or crackers. The milk and meat diet 
may be advantageously combined. 

In Osier's opinion, if there is much ulceration of the colon, 
meat is not well borne, and it is better to keep the patient 
upon a diet which will give but little residue, such as boiled 
or peptonised milk. 

The stools must be examined every day or two to ascertain 
the presence of undigested fragments of milk curds or meats, 
oil globules, mucus, blood, etc. If improvement does not 
occur, the patient may be put upon a diet of egg albumin 
with beef juice, or some of the preparations of beef meal or 
peptonoids, with pancreatinised milk. Eeturn to solid diet 
must be very gradual, and may be conducted on the lines 
directed for convalescence from typhoid fever. 

^Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 
-W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. ; "Practical Dietetics." New Tork. D. 
Appletou & Co. 



388 



DIET IN DISEASE 



ENTERIC DIET 
Dr. Vickery i 

Milk, strained gruels, broths and strained soups, milk whey, 
buttermilk, slips, eggs (soft cooked or raw), milk flavored occa- 
sionally with tea or coffee, barley water, albumin water, beef juice. 
Liquid Peptonoids. 



SPECIAL ENTERIC DIET 

Cutler 2 



Skimmed Milk 
Mellins' Food 
Skimmed Milk 
Eggs and Milk 
Beef juice 

Barley water 
Skimmed Milk 

Tea 
Chicken- Broth 

Barley Water 
Buttermilk 
Skimmed Milk 
Beef Tea 
Skimmed Milk 
Albumin Water 



8 oz. 

8 " 

3 " 

8 

3 

3 

6 

i 

4 

3 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 



with 
with 
with 



at 7 A.M. 
" 9 " 
" 11 " 
" 1 P.M. 

" 3 " 



" 9 " 

"11 " 

" 1 A.M 

" 3 " 

" 5 " 



Skimmed Milk 
Skimmed Milk 

Tea or Cofl'ee 
Beef Tea 
Chicken broth 

Barley Water 
Mellins' Food 
Albumin Water 
Beef juice 

Barley Water 
Buttermilk 



LIQUID ENTERIC DIET 

Cutler 2 

8 oz. 

6 " with 



with 



with 



4 times every 24 hours. 



One soft boiled egg daily if desired or raw in milk. 

1 Dr. Vickery: "Diet used nt the Massachusetts General Hospital, Bos- 
ton." 

2 Elhridge G. Cutler, M.D. : ' ' Diet used at the Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston." 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 389 

APPENDICITIS 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The dietetic treatment of appendici- 
tis, which has not yet passed into the surgeon's hands, should 
consist in giving only such foods as will be thoroughly ab- 
sorbed, leaving as little residue as possible to irritate the lower 
bowel and excite peristalsis. -I 

Until the outcome of the attack is decided it is best to put 
the patient upon a fluid diet, consisting chiefly of nutritive 
broths. Beaten eggs may be allowed, and a moderate quan- 
tity of pancreatinised milk, whey, or buttermilk. Cocoa may 
be given, and strained gruels of rice and barley. 

In recurrent eases the patient should be cautioned to eat 
moderately and avoid all coarse or hard food, such as grits, 
coarse oatmeal, tough meats, fibrous vegetables, the skin of 
fruits or potatoes — in short, everything likely to overload 
the intestine with accumulated waste. 

The operative cases should have the diet recommended 
after laparotomy. 'Usually the digestive organs require al- 
most absolute rest for twenty-four hovirs after the operation, 
and hot water may be sipped. No food at all should be given 
for fully six hours before operation. 

^ W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. T>. 
Appleton & Co. 



CHAPTEE XVIII 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE GENITO-URINARY SYSTEM 

ACUTE BBIGHT'S DISEASE 

In dieting a patient suffering from acute Bright's disease, 
one fact to be kept prominently in mind is the difficulty that 
the system has in getting rid of its waste material — espe- 
cially of its nitrogenous waste. Another point is that the 
diet should be such as to assist in carrying off those inflam- 
matory products by which we know that, the tubules of the 
kidneys are to a greater or less extent blocked. The amount 
of nitrogenous elements in foods must be kept down, and aid 
must be given for washing out the products of inflammation 
from the uriniferous tubules. 

Water is the best diuretic. — Hot water and hot diluent 
drinks. 

Diluted milk is the food that answers best, and skimmed 
milk has a high reputation as a diuretic. Buttermilk, whey 
and kumyss are useful. 

From two to three pints of milk, well diluted, given in the 
twenty-four hours, will in most cases be sufficient at first, 
but if the disease be protracted and tends to become chronic, 
a more liberal allowance of liquid food must be ordered, and 
broths may be added to the dietary. When milk alone is 
given it should be given in divided quantities at stated in- 
tervals — half a pint every three or four hours, diluted with 
half as much hot water or effervescing water. 

Between supplies of milk drink freely of diluent drinks. 

Diluent Drinks. Plain water, toast water, barley water, 
cream of tartar and lemon drinks, and the acid drinks are all 
useful diluents. 

Give between meals and drink slowly. 

390 



GENITO-URINABY SYSTEM 391 

CHROmC BRIGHT'S DISEASE 

The kidneys are great agents in the work of excreting ni- 
trogenous waste, and if these organs become clogged with ac- 
cumulation of nitrogenous waste products they are not able 
to perform their functions. 

As soon as we have evidence sufficient to prove that the 
kidneys are laboring and are burdened by their work, we must 
endeavor to remove the strain by regulating the diet ; and one 
clear indication is to limit the supplies of nitrogenous foods. 

Large amounts of animal food and the use of alcohol must 
be stopped, and better stopped altogether. 

In many cases the effect of feeding the patient for six 
weeks, or even two or three months, upon an exclusive milk 
diet, is remarkably gratifying. The quantity of milk to be 
prescribed for an exclusive milk diet in Bright's disease must 
depend on the age and size of the patient, as well as upon 
his ability to take exercise and use up force in muscular en- 
ergy. If the patient is invalided so as to be confined to his 
room or the house, from five to seven pints of milk daily are 
quite sufficient. If the patient loses weight on a milk diet, 
although it otherwise agrees with him, it may be well to add 
farinaceous food in the shape of rice or bread. In the worst 
eases it is desirable to give the milk at brief intervals, 
in quantities of six ounces, once an hour during the day- 
time, with an extra tumblerful at night, and on awakening 
in the morning. 

The quantity of milk necessary to support life for any 
length of time and maintain good nutrition, especially if 
the patient is exercising at all, is considerable, and he must 
take from fourteen to eighteen, or even twenty-two six-ounce 
tumblerfuls of milk in the twenty-four hours. 

It is usually impossible to commence at this rate without 
producing gastric disturbances from souring of the milk in 
the stomach, and possibly diarrhoea. The latter symptom 
is an almost certain indication that the milk is being im- 
perfectly digested, and a temporary reduction in its quantity 
is advised. 



392 DIET IN DISEASE 

As the patient improves the milk diet may be given up, 
but it should never be too suddenly abandoned. In adopting 
any other diet it is. a good rule never to let the nitrogenous 
food bear a greater proportion to the non-nitrogenous than 
one to four. 

When, after a milk diet, the change is to be made to a more 
liberal menu, the hours of taking the milk may be reduced 
in frequency, and some of the milk may be replaced by the 
more hearty food. 

DIET: Soup. — Vegetable or fish soup, broths with rice or barley. 

Fish. — Raw oysters or clams, fresh fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Eat sparingly, chicken, game, fat bacon, fat ham. 

Farinaceous. — Stale bread, whole wheat bread, toast, milk toast, 
biscuits, macaroni, rice, cereals of all kinds. 

Vegetables. — Onion, cauliflower, mashed potatoes, mushrooms, let- 
tuce, watercress, spinach, celery, cabbage. 

Desserts. — Ripe raw fruits, stewed fruits, rice, tapioca, bread and 
milk puddings, junkets, cocoa. 

Liquids. — Toast water, weak tea, pure water, peptonised milk, 
malted milk, fresh buttermilk, milk with hot water equal parts, 
whey, unfermented grape juice. 

AVOID. — Fried fish, corned beef, hashes, stews, pork, veal, heavy 
bread, batter cakes, lamb, mutton, beef, gravies, beans, peas, malt 
or spirituous liquors, tobacco, coffee, ice cream, cake, pastry. 

NEPHRITIC DIET 
Kassachusetts G-eneral Hospital i 
Bread, soft puddings without eggs, all vegetables, except peas and 
beans, fruits of all kinds, gruels and broths. 
AVOID. — Meat, eggs, peas, beans. 

DIET FOR ACUTE NEPHRITIS, URIC ACID GRAVEL 
Dr. Hewes, Massachusetts General Hospital ^ 
Four days. Milk, 800 c.c; 32 per cent, cream, .300 c.c; bread, 
200 gms. ; butter. Feed six times a day with mixture of milk, 150 
gms. ; cream, I oz. ; bread, % slice. 

Fifth day adopt the following: Milk, 800 c.c; cream, 300 c.c; 
rice, 50 gms.; tapioca, 50 gms.; bread, 100 gms. Occasionally ice 
cream or custard. 

^ Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital,- Boston, Mass. Dr. 
Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. 



GENITO-URINARY SYSTEM 393 

Vary diet from day to day in above limits. If oedema ia present 
and fails to disappear change above to dry salt-free diet. At the 
start give no more liquid than above; after the oedema is gone 
water can be given as desired. 

Special Dry Salt-Free Diet. Morning. Salt-free bread, 2 slices 
(toasted if desired) ; an abundance of salt- free butter; maple syrup 
if desired. 10 A. M. Rice with small amount of cream or sugar 
(no syrup). 

Noon. Mashed potatoes with butter, no salt; salt-free bread, 2 
slices ; salt-free butter. 4 P. M. Kice, tapioca, or baked custard. 

Supper. Salt-free bread, 2 slices; salt-free butter; 2 eggs, soft 
cooked; 1 orange daily. 

Caution. Limit liquids to one pint a day, including milk and 
water. 

Salt-Free IJephritio Diets (Halpin). No. 1. Milk, 1500-2000 c.c; 
white salt-free bread, 400-500 gms.; butter (salt-free), 40 gms.j eggs, 
4-6. (5-6 gms. NaCL contained.) 

No. 2. (Widal). Salt-free bread, 200 gms.; salt-free butter, 50 
gms.; salt-free beans or rice, 250 gms.; meat, 200 gms. (beef, chicken, 
or mutton) ; sugar, 40 gms. (1500 calories). (1-2 gms. NaCL con- 
tained.) 

No. 3. Potatoes, 700 gms.; salt-free bread, 200 gms.; salt-free 
butter, 50 gms.; cream cheese, 50 gms. (2000 calories.) 1-2% gms, 
NaCL contained.) 

No. 4. Potatoes, 1000 gms. without salt; meat, 400 gms. without 
salt; salt-free butter, 80 gms.; sugar, 100 gms. (2000 calories). 
(1-2 gms. NaCL contained.) 

No. 5. Potatoes, 16 oz. (without salt) ; rice, 6 oz. (without salt) ; 
meat, 4 oz. (without salt),- cream, 8 oz. ; eggs, 2 (without salt); 
sugar to taste. 

COHVUISIONS IN BKIGHT'S DISEASE 

Convulsions in Brighfs Disease. In the course of Bright's 
disease eonvulsions and unconsciousness may occur. The 
course to adopt is to encourage the action of the skin, there- 
fore place the patient in bed between warm blankets, pack 
hot water bottles around him, and send for medical assist- 
ance. — During this period the patient should live upon the 
exclusive milk diet. 



394 DIET IN DISEASE 

ALBUMINURIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The frequent return of functional 
albuminuria should be regarded as an indication of special 
weakness of the kidneys in the same way that frequent 
glycosuria invites suspicion of the strength of the digestive 
power of the liver, and it demands a careful regulation of 
the diet. Meat should be reduced in quantity, or temporarily 
forbidden, as well as all forms of alcoholic drinks, or other 
substances liable to produce renal irritation, and the diet 
should consist chiefly of fruits, vegetables, and milk. Care- 
ful attention must be paid to increasing the activity of the 
bowels. 

When functional albuminuria is observed in children and 
adolescents, it is not necessary, nor is it advisable in ordi- 
nary cases, to wholly exclude nitrogenous food, but it should 
be restricted, especially in regard to eating butcher's meat 
and eggs, and the evening meal should be made very simple, 
consisting of food such as bread, crackers, rice or porridge, 
and milk. 

1 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton Sc Co, 



CHAPTEE XIX 

DIET IN MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 

NERVOUS SISOBSERS 

Dietetic Treatment. The first thing to be done for a per- 
son suffering from nerve exhaustion is to adopt a dietary 
and a habit of life that will rebuild the nerve cells. The 
lost energy must be gently and slowly " coaxed " back — not 
through medicines, but through proper environments, proper 
employment and proper food. There is no disease that re- 
quires so little medicine as nerve exhaustion. The dietary 
should be simple and nutritious, abounding in lettuce, pars- 
ley and the fresh green edibles in season. If there is much 
intestinal disturbance, potatoes and foods that are rich in 
starch should be discarded. Active stimulants should be en- 
tirely eschewed. Take freely of unfermented grape juice and 
malted milk. 

In functional nervous disease, such as hysteria and hy- 
pochondriasis, the appetite, muscular elasticity, and mental 
powers will often be observed to be deficient in the early part 
of the day, and to recover their tone in the evening. At this 
latter time, therefore, it is advisable to make the principal 
meal. 

ETJNCTIONAI DISORDERS OF THE LIVER (BIIIOTJSNESS) 

DIET: Soups. — Light broths, vegetable soups, with crackers or a 
little toasted bread. 

Fish. — Broiled or boiled fresh white flesh fish, raw oysters. 

Meats. — Eat very sparingly of lean mutton, Iamb, chicken or 
game. 

Farinaceous. — Whole wheat bread, graham bread, dry toast, crack- 
ers, cereals, tapioca, arrowroot (well cooked). 

Vegetables. — Mashed potatoes — almost all fresh vegetables (well 
cooked), plain salads of watercress, lettuce and dandelions. 

395 



396 DIET IN DISEASE 

Desserts. — Plain milk pudding of tapioca or cornstarch, junkets, 
stewed or fresh fruits (all without sugar). 

Liquids. — Weak tea or coffee (without sugar or cream), hot water, 
pure, plain or aerated water. 

AVOID. — Articles of diet that are rich and highly seasoned, as 
curries, pies and pastry, strong soups, foods rich in fats, salmon, 
herrings, eels, mackerel, and other fish of an oily nature, elaborate 
entries, also rich sweets and creams, cheese, dried fruits and nuts, 
malt liquors, sweet wines, such as champagne, Madeira, brown 
sherry and port. 

DIET IN SKIN DISEASES 

Nearly all affections of the skin of constitutional or reflex 
(gastro-intestinal) origin, especially acne, eczema, psoriasis, 
seborrhoea capitis, pruritus, urticaria, etc., improve under 
dietetic measures and often recover under these alone. 
While no special plan applies to all, the elimination of sugar 
and sweets of all kinds, and substances rich in fat, as cheese, 
nuts, fried articles, etc., is essential. Pure fats like butter, 
cream, salad oil, etc., are, however, well enough in small 
amounts. Malt liquors and sweet wines disagree, largely 
because of the sugar therein; but alcohol itself is also prej- 
udicial in many cases. 

It is well to take all food in small rations, and masticate 
it thoroughly; for the prejudicial effect of food in skin dis- 
eases is often directly attributable to fermentation, favored 
by atony of the digestive tract, dilated stomach, constipa- 
tion, etc. Physical exercise is of great benefit in most -of 
these cases. 

The diet and other regimen in skin diseases is much like 
that for obesity, gout and diabetes. All these metabolic dis- 
orders tend to produce skin diseases. 

DIET IN HEAKT DISEASE 

In disease of the heart which has passed the period of com- 
pensatory activity, so that the organ is no longer able to 
discharge its functions perfectly, it is highly important that 
the stomach be not overloaded by heavy meals, and that the 
likelihood of flatulency be minimized as much as possible by 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 397 

care in eating, for distention of the stomach from any cause 
may be quickly felt by the pressure upon the weakened heart. 
Many fatalities come about in this manner; hence meals 
should be small, repeated when necessary. The food should 
bo concentrated and should contain little waste material. 
Certain articles of food prone to ferment should be excluded, 
the patient's own experience being the best guide. 

On the other hand, it is also important to avoid increasing 
the blood pressure by giving too much water, which should 
be kept within a certain daily limit conformable to the good 
results obtained. Patients should not try to live on milk 
or take any mineral water cure. Anything which produces 
thirst — like salted food, spices, etc., should be avoided, as 
should exposure to very hot weather. 

DIETETIC MANAGEMENT OF SURGICAL CASES 

Not much special attention is paid to dietetics until a day 
or two before operation, with the exception of stomach cases. 
AVhenever a patient is to be operated on for a stomach affec- 
tion, many surgeons advocate the free use of articles rich in 
vegetable acids, believing that such articles are natural anti- 
septics for the stomach and intestines. These substances, 
while technically acids, are quickly changed to alkalies in 
the body, and tend to lessen the total acidity of the latter. 
Some German surgeons even allow such patients to eat freely 
of sauerkraut, sour milk, etc. 

In other cases,, the patient is placed in bed, or is in com- 
plete rest for several days, and fed on very simple and nutri- 
tious articles in moderate quantities only. The old custom 
of fattening or building patients up before operating on them 
has largely died out. If the bad general state of the patient 
is due to the condition which is to be operated on, nothing 
is gained by such attempts. In the case of a rapidly prog- 
ressing disease, every hour lost before operating may dimin- 
ish the chance for recovery, immediate or ultimate. If the 
patient is in bad condition for withstanding an operation, he 
may often be operated on safely under local anesthesia. 



398 DIET IN DISEASE 

There are many resources to-day for minimizing the dangers 
of shock and hemorrhage. As a general rule the sooner a 
patient is operated on, the better, irrespective of the urgency 
of the condition. To live for weeks and months in anticipa- 
tion of an operation is believed by its depressing effect to off- 
set alleged attempts at strengthening patients. 

When a general anesthetic is to be given the patient must 
fast beforehand to such an extent that the stomach is empty 
at the hour of anesthesia. As operations are usually per- 
formed in the forenoon, the patient should take but little 
supper and no breakfast. Should the operation be performed 
late in the day, he may have a light breakfast. 

In emergency operations, the patient having taken food 
within six hours, the stomach should first be washed out. 
This is also done as a routine procedure in all operations 
involving the stomach itself. Water may be given at any 
time. After the operation there is such a natural tendency 
to nausea that little or no attempt should be made to feed 
the patient for some hours. Only in exceptional cases in 
which the stomach is not upset and the patient complains 
of hunger, a little tea and toast, or milk may be given. In 
the great majority of cases no food is given until the follow- 
ing day. 

As soon as the stomach will tolerate it, however, simple 
nutritious food should be given in proper amounts. The 
tendency to-day is toward getting up early after operations, 
and against everything which tends to make the patient pas- 
sive and bedfast. The patient therefore needs more food 
than if he were to be bedridden. 

In patients who from any reason' are unconscious or de- 
lirious after operation, some plan of artificial treatment is 
necessary, involving the use of the nasal, stomach or rectal 
tube. 

In any condition in which post operative vomiting will 
undo the results of operation, the diet should be extremely 
light and bland until healing has occurred, and it may be 
necessary to feed by the rectum. If the patient is unable to 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 399 

masticate he must be given only liquid or very soft foods. 

As a rule, when post operative feeding is left wholly to 
the discretion of the nurse, a certain rule is adopted as fol- 
lows: 

No food at all for the first twenty-four hours. Water may 
be given in sips for the intolerable thirst and in addition to 
plain water, the patient may receive a swallow of carbonic 
water, cracked ice, a little hot tea or black coffee, or some 
alcoholic stimulant. Toward the end of the period a tea- 
spoonful or two of milk diluted with lime water may be 
given. 

During the second twenty-four-hour period about one-half 
a pint of milk or some other liquid food may be given in 
small doses and this amount may be doubled on the third 
day. 

The third or fourth day usually coincides with normal 
bowel action, the patient having received laxatives on the day 
preceding. The patient as soon as this has occurred may 
go upon a semi-solid diet, so increased as to be regular at 
the end of a week or ten days. 

The diet varies notably with the patient and the kind of 
operation and its outcome and the responsibility for special 
provisions suited to individual cases falls upon the medical 
attendant and are modified from day to day under his direc- 
tions. 

DIET AFTER LAPAROTOMY, OVARIOTOMY, ETC. 
Thompson ^ 

After all operations involving opening the peritoneal cav- 
ity complete rest of the stomach is necessary for at least four 
or six hours, and not infrequently for two or three days. 
Food and stimulants may be given by enemata. If fed per os 
for the first three days, not over a tablespoonful of pancrea- 
tinised milk or milk with lime water or barley water should 
be allowed, once in two or three hours. Later the quantity 

* W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : *' Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
AppJeton & Co. 



400 DIET IN DISEASE 

may be increased and the intervals diminished, and beef tea, 
beef peptonoids, and egg albumin may be added. 

In these cases the duration of anesthesia has usually been 
prolonged, and the shock is considerable. The danger from 
the occurrence of vomiting, fermentation of food, and flatu- 
lent distention of the abdomen is far worse than that of in- 
anition from abstinence. It is well also to precede the opera- 
tion by a day or two of dieting in order to lessen the bulk 
of intestinal waste matter. To this end the diet should, 
when possible, consist chiefly of lean meat and dry toast, 
vegetables and especially sweets being avoided. 

After wounds and operations affecting the stomach or in- 
testines no food at all should be given by the mouth. Noth- 
ing but a little cracked ice should be so administered, and 
all nourishment must be supplied for several days by the 
rectum. The return to mouth-feeding must be made very 
slowly and cautiously by at first giving not over one or two 
tablespoonfuls of pancreatinised milk or beef juice at a time. 

There is often much thirst following operations involving 
the peritonaeum, which is relieved more by hot fluids than by 
ice, which sometimes irritates the throat and increases the 
desire for drink. If there is danger of all fluids exciting 
emesis, a salt-water enema once in three or four hours will 
alleviate thirst. 



CHAPTER XX 
DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

MOTHERHOOD 

DIET IN PREGNANCY 
Thompson i 

It is not customary to adopt any definite system of diet 
for pregnancy unless complications arise. If serious vomit- 
ing occurs in the early months, this should be treated in the 
manner described in following article. If albuminuria is 
discovered, meat and other nitrogenous food must be re- 
stricted, in accordance with the directions given for al- 
buminuria. If the patient becomes very ansemic, without 
albuminuria, meat, eggs, and milk should be eaten in abund- 
ance. 

The " longing " of pregnant women for various indigestible 
articles, such as pickles, chalk, etc., are largely mythical, and 
occurs, if at all, only as ah accompaniment of a general hys- 
terical condition, not as a peculiarity, of the period of preg- 
nancy. Pregnant women, , however, should live simply and 
avoid foods which are likely to produce dyspepsia, heartburn, 
and colic, such as sweets, pastry, fried food, rich sauces, 
spiced dishes, and heating drinks. 

They often suffer from constipation, in which case fruits 
and coarse cereals, such as oatmeal or wheaten grits, may be 
of service. The stomach, especially at night, should not be 
overloaded. • The idea formerly prevalent that pregnant 
women need to eat food containing abundant phosphates and 
lime salts, to furnish the embryo with material for making 

> W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : " Practical Dietetics. ' ' New York. D, 
Appleton & Co. 

401 



402 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

bones, as a hen eats lime to make egg shells, is no longer 
accepted. The salts in question are sufficiently contained 
in an ordinary mixed diet, such as any pregnant woman may 
eat, if plainly cooked. 

Another theory, equally ingenious and directly opposed 
to the one above mentioned, is only interesting historically, 
for efforts to aid Nature in a process which she is abundantly 
competent to regulate unaided are now regarded as futile. 
This theory was that the agonies of labor would be less severe 
if the pregnant woman lived upon a diet of fruits and meats, 
avoiding bread and fresh vegetables during gestation, on the 
ground that the lime salts which they contain would favor 
early ossification of the infant's bones, and thus make the 
labor proportionately difficult. 

It will be observed that the first theory favors the child, 
and the second the mother, but practically it has been found 
that diet has little or no influence either way, so long as it 
is digestible, nourishing and sufficient to keep the mother in 
good general condition. 

VOMITING — SEASICKNESS — VOMITING OF PREGNANCY 
Thompson ^ 

The first principle in the dietetic treatment of vomiting 
from any cause is to give the stomach rest. If it has been 
overloaded with a large bulk of food, or with indigestible 
material, it is well to encourage emesis, and distressing retch- 
ing may be overcome by taking large draughts of lukewarm 
water. A quart or two will rinse out the stomach and allay 
irritation to a marked degree. 

Well nourished patients when serious vomiting first occurs 
should usually refrain from taking food of any kind for from 
ten or twelve or even twenty-four hours. Exceptions to this 
rule are sometimes found in that type of seasickness, and 
sometimes in the vomiting of pregnancy, in which, as soon 
almost as the stomach is emptied, there is a desire to re- 
plenish the loss. 

1 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D, 
Appleton & Co. 



MOTHERHOOD 403 

In any case in which the gastric irritation is persistent, 
it is necessary to give fluid food, and only in small oft-re- 
peated doses, preferably in predigested form. The food is. 
best given cold, as a rule, although some persons can relieve 
nausea by sipping very hot water. 

A teaspoon of prepared milk, or in extreme cases but a 
few drops, given with a medicine dropper once in ten or fif- 
teen minutes, may be all that the stomach will at first toler- 
ate. 

The following is a list of dietetic substances which are- 
commonly prescribed for the relief of nausea and vomiting,, 
or for nourishment while those conditions exist: Cracked 
ice; panereatinised milk; milk with sodium bicarbonate (ten 
grains), and cerium oxalate (five grains) ; milk and lime 
water; milk and Vichy, soda, seltzer, or carbonic-acid water; 
kumyss and zoolak; beef extracts and Liquid Peptonoids; 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble; raw meat pulp, scraped; strong 
black coffee; sour lemonade or lemonade and Vichy; clam 
broth. Dry crackers, dry toast, and ginger snaps will some- 
times be retained in seasickness, or a cracker buttered and 
sprinkled with a little Cayenne pepper; brandy and soda;, 
iced dry champagne; iced brandy diluted with water, soda 
water, or Apollinaris. 

Very severe and protracted cases may require lavage or 
nutrient enemata. Vomiting after abdominal surgical opera- 
tions is often controlled by lavage. 

DIET FOR THE MOTHER AFTER LABOR 
Society of the lying-In Hospital, New York City i 
Immediately after labor in a normal case milk diet is givert 
for the first six hours ; at the end of that time regular diet. 
In abnormal cases the diet is ordered by the physician. 
In our regular diet stewed fruits and cereals are given: 
very frequently ; no veal or pork is allowed. 

In cases of severe engorgement of breasts, fluids are re- 
stricted; a dry diet is given, which consists of the regular 

^Diet used at the Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City. 



404 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

diet and one glass of milk with each, meal; no tea or cofEee 
and no fluid between meals. 

In cases of eclampsia milk is always given; also a large 
quantity of water, either hot or cold, and cream of tartar 
drink. 

All nursing women have extra quantities of milk. 

DIET or A NURSIITG UOTHER OB WET NTTIISE 
Thompson i 

The diet of the nursing mother or wet nurse must be regu- 
lated to prevent noxious substances from passing into the 
breast milk, and to keep her in good health, so that she 
does not suffer from constipation, indigestion, or anaemia. 
Her weight should not alter, and if she has menstruated once 
or twice the milk changes and may disagree. 

If milk does not make her constipated or bilious, she may 
drink it abundantly. She may take gruels and meat broths, 
and she should eat simple nourishing food, meat, eggs, veg- 
etables, and fruits. The latter, even if sour, do not react 
unfavorably upon the child, provided the mother's digestion 
is good, and they serve to keep the child's bowels active. The 
mother should forego the drinking of much tea and coffee. 
Beer and wine also should not be drunk unless they are es- 
pecially prescribed as a tonic. Wet nurses often demand 
Tseer, ale, or porter with their meals if they have been accus- 
tomed to it; but the popular idea that such beverages are 
especially beneficial is fallacious. Malt liquor sometimes 
causes the secretion of more milk, because more fluid is 
drunk, but the milk is no better for it. A reasonable quan- 
tity of fluids should be drunk, however, or the secretion of 
milk will suffer. The fluid may be in the form of plain or 
effervescing water, milk, soups, etc. 

The mother or wet nurse should avoid all fatigue, worry, 
and emotional excitement of any kind, which may inhibit her 
digestive functions, and should take daily outdoor exercise. 

>W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York D 
Appleton & Co. 



MOTHERHOOD 405 

On the whole, the best indication for the dietetic treatment 
of the wet nurse is the study of the condition of the child's 
digestion, bowels, and nutrition. A too meager diet for the 
nurse is soon evident in lack of nutrition and development 
of the infant. 

Drugs in Human Milk. ISTot many drugs pass unchanged 
into the milk which are likely to poison the child through 
its food, but there are some which should be carefully avoided 
on this account. Such are belladonna, opium, morphine, and 
other alkaloids; iodin and its preparations; mercury and its 
salts; salicylic acid. 

"When, for any reason, it becomes necessary to discontinue 
the nursing and to stop further secretion of milk, the diet 
should at once be made as dry as possible, and a minimum 
quantity only of fluid is allowed. 



CHAPTER XXI 
INFANT FEEDING 

GENERAL CONSISERATIOKS 

Infants may be fed naturally, artificially or by a combina- 
tion of both methods. When the child is at the breast of 
its own mother or another nursing woman, there is no indi- 
cation for artificial feeding as long as breast milk is plentiful 
and of good quality. If the infant no longer thrives on 
mother's milk or the_ mother .is unable to nurse it, and there 
is no other breast milk available, bottle feeding is then indi- 
cated. It goes without saying that many infants, chiefly 
foundlings, have to be bottle fed from the start, but every 
effort should be made to secure to the child its birthright of 
mother's milk. 

The subject of breast feeding and choice of a wet nurse 
are discussed thoroughly in special works which the nurse 
is obliged to study, and hardly belong to the general 
subject of dietetics. This is also true to a large extent of 
artificial feeding, because the physician's orders are so ex- 
plicit that they may be carried out by \the mother or any 
intelligent woman. However, cases may occur, as they fre- 
quently do in hospitals, where the nurse is largely respon- 
sible for the thriving of the child, and is given only general 
instructions, if any, from the practitioner. For this reason 
a brief resume of the whole subject seems desirable. 

BREAST FEEDING 

The baby is first allowed to nurse after the mother has had 
some hours of sleep following delivery. This, however, is 
not actual feeding for the milk is not secreted as such until 
the second twenty-four hour period after birth. The first 

406 



INFANT FEEDING 407 

flow, called colostrum, differs from true milk in its compo- 
sition, providing a small amount of nourishment ready for 
absorption without digestion. The first attempt at nursing 
aids the mother by assisting the empty uterus to contract; 
while the colostrum aids the infant by stimulating the diges- 
tive tract and arousing peristalsis. In addition to the colos- 
trum the infant should receive only warm water for the first 
twenty-four hours. Should there be much delay in the secre- 
tion of mature milk it may be necessary to give the infant 
a little modified cow's milk having a very low protein content 
(1/4 per cent, to y2 per cent.). 

Under ordinary conditions the mother begins to secrete 
mature milk by the second twenty-four hour period. Up to 
the third or fourth day, this milk is mixed with colostrum 
in increasingly small amounts, but this may be disregarded 
in practice. The child must be taught to nurse at stated 
intervals, for fifteen or twenty minutes at a time, alternating 
the use of the breasts.'- 

THE WET NURSE 
When the mother is unable for any reason to nurse her 
child or to supply it with enough nutriment, the ideal sub- 
stitute is the milk of another nursing mother, who should be 
in perfect health and have a child of about the same age as 
the infant to be nursed. When the wet nurse is a hireling 
the moral risk is very great, for the nurse's own child if still 
living is largely sacrificed for the good of the other. It is 
also difficult to find a wet nurse of good character or educa- 
tion. It is particularly necessary to supervise her diet for 
she may be intemperate. Her own child may be illegitimate ; 
she herself may suffer from some venereal or parasitic dis- 
ease. 

COUFOSITION OF KOTHEB'S MILK 

It is often advisable to collect enough milk with the breast 
pump to permit of an analysis. Milk within normal limits 
should average fat, 4 per cent.; carbohydrates (milk sugar), 

. 1 See table of feeding according to age. 



408 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

7 per cent., and protein, 1.5 per cent. Such an analysis is 
unnecessary when the infant keeps well' and gains in weight. . 
Maternal nursing is of such vital importance that artificial 
feeding should be looked upon as a last resort and necessary 
evil, and carefully guarded against. If the mother's milk is 
found to be poor in non-protein elements and over-rich in 
protein, attempts should be made to remedy the disproportion 
by proper treatment for the mother. 

THE HYGIENE OF NATTJIIAL FEEDING 

As a nursing baby spends most of its time sleeping, dur- 
ing which state it grows and develops, there must be some 
relationship established between sleeping and feeding. When 
it wakes from normal causes, it needs nourishment. Every- 
thing possible should be done to keep it from being wakened 
unnecessarily. Hence it is best left alone, in a dark and 
quiet room, with clothing properly adjusted. 

The baby should be weighed at birth and at regular inter- 
vals. It is natural for it to lose weight for the first week 
or so, but by the end of the second week it should have re- 
turned to its birth weight, and after that should gain steadily. 
Up to the fifth month, it should gain on an average from five 
to eight ounces a week and hence should then weigh double 
its birth weight. During the next ten months it should 
again gain its own weight, so that if it weighed eight pounds 
at birth it should weigh sixteen pounds at the end of five 
months and twenty-four pounds at the end of fifteen months. 
Teething, diarrhcea, hot summer weather, etc., tend to re- 
tard somewhat the natural gain. If it fail to gain from no 
apparent cause, the breast milk should be examined and a 
strict plan of feeding introduced. If there is too little breast 
milk, as very often happens, the mother should drink from 
one to two quarts of good milk daily, at regular intervals, 
during the night as well as the day hours. 

Some attention should be paid to the capacity of the in- 
fant's stomach, in all plans of systematic feeding, as shown 
by the following table : 



INFANT FEEDING 409 

CAPACITY OF BABY'S STOMACH 

Newly born about 1 ounce. 

At 1 month about 2J ounces. 

At 2 months about 3i ounces. 

from then on, up to the first six months, the gain is only 
fractional, so that at that time it is barely four ounces. 

One should bear in mind that the baby often craves water, 
rather than milk, and should always be offered it at intervals. 
It takes in this way one and one-half ounces or more each 
day, usually at the rate of two teaspoonfuls every four hours. 
This use of water tends to prevent overfeeding. It is a good 
plan to give the water in a nursing bottle, as in this way 
the child becomes accustomed to its use, and less difficiilty 
is experienced at weaning time, or when breast feeding has 
to be partially or wholly discontinued for any reason. 

SCHEDULE rOR NURSING 

Up to two months of age the baby will normally demand 
the breast about ten times in twenty-four hours, or roughly 
speaking, every two hours, day and night. 

After the second month, the night nursings may be cut 
down to one, so that eight feedings in twenty-four hours will 
suffice, intervals from two to three hours. 

After the third month, and up to the sixth, it may be fed 
every three hours, in the daytime only. 

From the sixth to twelfth month, five feedings will suffice, 
all in the daytime, intervals from three to four hours. 

From the twelfth month to weaning time, four feedings 
suffice, about four hours apart, in the daytime only. 

The tendency of the mother's milk to grow scanty is usually 
yery marked long before the nursing period is over. As al- 
ready stated, she should use milk freely as a milk maker. 
The use of malt liquors no doubt increases the milk supply, 
but if the child has any ailment, especially of the skin, this 
will almost surely be aggravated. Fo drugs have any power 
to increase the flow of milk. 

When the mother's milk is inadequate and no other breast 



410 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

milk is available, mixed feeding will be necessary. The baby 
receives just enough artificial food to make up the deficit. 
This is only what happens naturally at the weaning period, 
and is simply an anticipation of the latter. 

WEANING 

Children can be nursed for two or three years, but in the 
great majority of cases, a period not earlier than twelve or 
later than eighteen months is chosen to begin mixed feed- 
ing, so that the process may be made gradual or rapid as 
circumstances demand. 

As there is absolutely no difference between artificial feed- 
ing as a supplement to breast feeding and the same as an 
entire diet, the subjeqt of substitute feeding is usually dis- 
cussed without special reference to the former. It must 
be remembered that breast feeding continued too long be- 
comes a confirmed habit, like a drug habit, against the in- 
fant's own welfare. It then is necessary to make it repug- 
nant by putting aloes, etc., on the mother's nipple. 

AKIIPICIAl OR BOTTLE EEEDINO 

When there is no breast milk available for the newly-born 
child, or for an infant of any age during the nursing period; 
or when the child has some breast milk, but not enough to 
nourish it; or when it has reached the weaning period and 
must be taken off the breast either suddenly or gradually, 
the general conditions are much the same; viz., the child 
must be nourished by some artificial fluid which closely ap- 
proximates mother's milk in composition. For this purpose 
ass's milk seems especially suitable, as its composition and 
behavior in the stomach are very similar to human milk; but 
as a rule, no better results are obtained with any kind of 
foreign milk than that of the cow, properly modified to ob- 
tain the right proportion of protein, fat, and carbohydrate. 

SIEEEBENCE BETWEEN HUMAN AND COW'S UILK 

Cow's milk has a larger protein content than human milk, 
and is richer in mineral matter. Human milk has a larger 



INFANT FEEDING 411 

sugar content and therefore a somewhat sweeter taste. The 
fat content of the two kinds of milk is about the same, and 
this is also true of the total solids. The following table shows 
the average composition of the two kinds of milk: 

Human Cow's 

Water 87% 87% 

Total solids 13% 13% 

Fatty matter 4% 4% 

Lactose 7% 5% 

Protein (see second table) 1.5% 3.5% 

Mineral matter 0.2% 0.7% 

The fat of cow's milk differs with the breed of milch cow, 
and may be as low as 2 per cent, or 3 per cent. The fat in 
human milk is quite constant in amount, but the protein 
content may vary from 1 per cent, to 2 per cent., the 1.5 per 
cent, in the table being an average. 

Human milk, in comparison with cow's milk, is very poor 
in casein, but rich in lactalbumin and hence, when coagulated, 
does not form large curds like cow's milk. The relations 
between casein and lactalbumin in the two kinds of milk are 
shown in the following table : 

Human Cow's 

Total protein 1.80 3.50 

Casein 60 3.00 

Lactalbumin 1.20 .50 

The high protein content and large proportion of casein 
in cow's milk are advantageous to the calf, with its rapid 
rate of growth, and complex system of stomachs in which 
large curds can be completely digested; but for the more 
slowly-growing baby, whose digestion is largely intestinal, 
the proportion of protein and the character of the curd must 
be modified. The fat of mother's milk contains more olein 
and more phosphorized fat (lecithin) than cow's milk. The 
lactose is chemically the same. Freshly drawn cow's milk is 
neutral or amphoteric in reaction to litmus. Basic elements 
predominate in both cow's and human milk, and hence they 
are both technically alkaline. The acidity of cow's milk to 



412 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

certain indicators is due to the presence of acid salts, such 
as acid calcium phosphate. 

On standing, true acid is formed by the action of lactic 
acid bacteria upon the lactose. For this reason, cow's milk 
frequently reacts acid to litmus. Breast mil^ is practically 
sterile. 

GENERAL FEINCIFIES OF MILE MODIFICATIONS 

It must be constantly borne in mind that anything but 
mother's milk is a foreign substance in the stomach of the 
child, and even to make a mixture agreeing in chemical com- 
position with the natural food is not to insure success. The 
general principles must be applied in a special way to each 
individual case. » 

The first step in modification is the dilution of the pro- 
tein. Pew new-born infants can digest pure cow's milk. 
Some require more dilution than others. Where the diges- 
tive powers are unknown, it is wise to begin with a low 
strength and advance as rapidly as the condition of the child 
will permit. Prom % to 1 per cent, protein is commonly 
recommended for the early weeks. 

The second step is the adjustment of the fat. Individual 
infants differ in their tolerance of fat as of protein. But 
inasmuch as the chemical and physical differences are not as 
great in the case of fat, it is usually not necessary to reduce 
it below 2 per cent., and it should approximate the propor- 
tion in mother's milk as rapidly as possible. 

When whole milk is diluted, if more than one volume of 
water be added, the percentage of fat is less than two, and 
for greater fat content, fat must be added in the form of 
cream. Since it is difficult to get the right percentage in 
this way, it is custemary to select a milk with such a ratio 
between the protein and fat that diluting one to the desired 
strength dilutes the other also to the required degree. This 
is accomplished by taking the upper layers of milk which has 
been standing five hours or more for the cream to rise. The 
upper layers have much fat and little protein; the lower. 



INFANT FEEDING ,413 

much protein and little fat, and the adjustment is readily 
made by taking a certain number of ounces for dilution. In 
the laboratory, the exact fat and protein content can be de- 
termined by direct analysis. 

The third step in modification is the adjustment of the 
milk sugar. This can usually be given of the full strength 
found in mother's milk (7 per cent.). Since lactose com- 
mercially prepared from cow's milk is of the same composi- 
tion as that in mother's milk, it is only necessary to know 
the percentage already present in the mixture to be fed, and 
then add sufiicient to make the desired strength. 

Besides these three main steps in artificial feeding, we may 
have as a further consideration the selection of a diluent. 
AVater is the first choice, but to aid in the modification of 
the character of the curd, cereal waters or gruels, lime water, 
proprietary foods, etc., are sometimes prescribed. Carefully 
prepared, and regarded mainly as diluents and not as sub- 
stitutes for milk, the cereals and prepared foods are often 
useful ■ aids. Lime water causes the mucin of the milk to 
swell, and tends to send the curd in soft condition into the 
intestines. It is also beneficial as a corrective of constipa- 
iion. 

WHAT DILUTION TO TISE 

The degree of dilution varies with the age of the child. 
Advance is made from low strength to higher as rapidly as 
the child is able to digest stronger food. Since it is usually 
necessary to begin with a formula weaker than mother's milk, 
it is desirable that stronger formulae be given as soon as 
practicable to compensate for this early loss. This is par- 
ticularly true as regards mineral constituents. On diluted 
cow's milk, the child gets less iron and phosphorus than in 
mother's milk, and while cow's milk is rjch in calcium, it is 
doubtful whether this is as perfectly utilized as that in human 

milk. 

THE ftrANTITY TO FEED 

The amount of milk taken by the breast-fed child is the 
usual guide as to quantity. (See Capacity of Baby's Stom- 



414 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ach.) Both under-feeding and over-feeding are undesirable. 
The best criteria of proper feeding are the normal weekly- 
gain in weight (averaging at least four ounces) and the gen- 
eral well-being of the child. A determination of the energy 
value of the diet is desirable as a control. For the first year, 
a child requires on the average 100 calories per kilogram of 
body weight. Seventy calories per kilogram is minimum for 
existence, and does not ordinarily provide for storage in 
growth. 

LABORATORY MILK 

"With the development of the milk laboratory, it has be- 
come possible to obtain by prescription, pure milk of any 
given composition. Such milk is necessarily expensive, and 
since slight variations in the composition of formulae are not 
serious for the ordinary healthy child, the use of laboratory 
milk is largely limited to sick babies or those of rich parents. 

HOME UOSIFICATION 

For the average child, milk can be successfully modified at 
home. The chief requirements are fresh clean milk, absolute 
cleanliness in its treatment, and careful following of direc- 
tions in making up the feedings. 

Clean raw milk is preferable to any other kind. Therefore 
certified milk should be used if it can be afforded. If this 
is impossible, then the best bottled milk. If this is pasteur- 
ized, the pasteurization should be at a low temperature. 
Loose grocery milk should be avoided. When the milk comes 
into the house, the bottles should be carefully washed, and 
set in the cold until needed. 

All apparatus used in preparing the baby's food should 
be kept by itself on a tray or table. Every vessel should be 
washed in soapsuds and then scalded in clear water before 
use. 

If there is a special nursing refrigerator, it should ba 
cleansed daily with soda-water. 




INFANT FEEDING 415 

THE NUBSIN6 BOTTLE 

The tube bottles should never, under any con- 
sideration, be used. No matter how carefully these 
tubes and outfits are washed, small particles of 
milk will remain in the tiny crevices and cause 
inflammation of the intestines. 

Select the plain, graduated cell, without neck, 
wide-mouthed, covered with breast-nipple. Such a 
bottle can be thoroughly and easily cleaned. These re- 
quirements are met by the Hygeia nursing bottle. 

When filled, the bottles are corked with non-absorbent cot- 
ton.^ They are plugged loosely, so that the steam may es- 
cape, if the milk is pasteurized in the bottles before putting 
into the refrigerator, as is necessary when the quality of the 
milk is unknown or when refrigeration is lacking. Before 
feeding, the bottle of milk is warmed to 105° F. (40.5° C), 
so that the milk may not chill the stomach of the infant, and 
thereby suspend digestive processes. After the nursing, the 
bottle should be carefully rinsed with cold water, then bottle 
and nipple washed with a suds of soap and water. Einse, 
boil in clear borax water for twenty minutes (nipples for two 
or three minutes), and set away in a porcelain dish filled with 
boric acid solution, one teaspoonful to a quart of water, or 
they may be emptied and filled with a plug of sterilized baked 
absorbent cotton, and will remain sterile until ready to use. 

The twenty-four-hour supply should be prepared at one 
time. For removing the milk from the bottle a dipper is 
most satisfactory, as the cream is not disturbed. A siphon 
may also be used. The milk sugar to be added should be 
dissolved in a little boiling water and strained. A bottle 
of sterile water should be at hand for diluting the milk. 
The proper number of bottles for the day's feedings (pre- 
viously sterilized) should be each filled with the prescribed 
amount, stoppered and put in the refrigerator, or if necessary, 
pasteurized and then quickly cooled. 

> To cork tile Hygeia bottle, a sterilizer cap is used to cover the cell. 
The cap has a small opening, which is corked With non-absorbing cotton. 
These caps are on sale by druggists. 



416 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

FORMULAE FOE INFANT FEEDING 

Many systems for percentage feeding of infants have been 
evolved. One of the simplest is the top milk method. The 
cream is allowed to rise. The upper third of the bottle con- 
taining practically all the fat, will contain approximately 10 
per cent, of fat; .the upper half 7 per cent, of fat. In the 
upper third, the ratio of fat to protein is 3.1; in the upper 
half, 2.1; in whole milk, 1.1 (approximately). 

TOP UILK METHOD 
1. Emmet Holt i 

Top-Milk. To secure a milk for infant feeding which is 
fresh and at the same time one which contains an extra 
amount of fat, the practice has come largely into vogue of 
using the upper portion — a third, fourth, or fifth from milk 
purchased and delivered in bottles — after it has stood only 
a few hours. To this the term "top-milk" or "upper- 
milk" has been given. Different percentages of fat may be 
obtained by varying the amount removed and the length of 
time the milk has been allowed to stand. Top-milk and thin 
cream are practically identical in composition, although they 
may differ in freshness. 

If cow's milk from a mixed herd is put into bottles soon 
after it is drawn and rapidly cooled, it will be found that 
after four hours the upper fourth will contain nearly all the 
fat that will rise as cream, and that the upper layers will have 
nearly the same percentage of fat whether the milk has stood 
for four hours, for eight hours, or over night. This has been 
demonstrated in a series of experiments made for me by 
Messrs. Upton & Jeffers, at the Walker-Gordon Farm at 
Plainsboro. After the milk had been standing under the 
conditions mentioned, fat-tests were made with the Babcock 
apparatus of the different four-ounce layers of bottled milk 
which contained originally 4 per cent, of fat. The different 

^L. Emmett Holt, M.B. : "The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood." 
Fifth Edition, Copyright, 1897, 1902, 1905, 1907, 1909. D. Appleton & Co. 



INFANT FEEDING 417 

layers were carefully removed with a siphon, with the follow- 
ing results: 

Percentage of fat in — After four After eight Over night, 

hours. hours. 

Upper 4 oz 20.50 21.25 22.00 

Second 4 oz 6.00 6.50 6.50 

Third 4 oz 1.50 1.40 1.00 

Fourth 4 oz 1.20 1.00 0.30 

Fifth 4 oz 1.00 1.00 0.20 

Each of these percentages represents the averages, each test 
having been repeated many times, 110 different tests in all 
having been made. It will be seen that after four hours 
the composition of the separate layers does not change very 
much with the period of standing. With this knowledge, it 
becomes a comparatively simple matter to secure almost any 
desired percentage of fat by simply varying the number of 
ounces removed from the upper part of the quart. 

This will of course not be the same with all milks, but 
will vary considerably according as the supply is from a good 
herd of selected cattle of mixed breeds (average 4 per cent, 
fat), a Jersey or Alderney herd (5.35 to 5.50 fat), or from 
widely scattered farms such as make up the general supply 
of any large town or city (3.25 to 3.60). It is therefore 
absolutely necessary for the physician to know with which one 
of these he is dealing, if the milk for infant feeding is to 
be modified at home from the different layers of top-milk. 
More mistakes are made just here than at any other step in. 
this method of feeding. 

The tables given below are sufficiently accurate for home: 
modification, provided the fat percentage of the whole milk 
is known. 

From 4 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 16 oz., or 
about one-half. 



418 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



From 525 to 5.50 per cent. (Jersey) Milk 
To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 15 oz., or 

nearly one-half. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 24 oz., or 

nearly three-fourths. 

From 3.25 to 3.50 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 8 oz., or 
about one-fourth. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

How to Obtain the Formulas Required for General Use. 
If one has at command three series or groups of formulas in 
which the fat has certain definite relations to the proteids, 
he will be equipped for the great majority of cases met with 
in practice. The three groups are as follows : 

First Series, those in which the fat is three times the pro- 
teids. 

Second Series, those in which the fat is twice the proteids. 

Third Series, those in which the fat and proteids are 
nearly equal. 




Fig. 2. Chapin's 
dipper for re- 
moving the up- 

Fig. 1. The percentage of fat in different layers per layers of 
of milk. milk 



INFANT FEEDING 419 

Once thoroughly familiar with these groups of formulas, 
variations from them to suit the needs of the particular case 
can readily be made. In generalj the First and Second 
Series, in which the fat is considerably higher than the pro- 
teids, are adapted to the early months, because at this period 
the infant as a rule has more difficulty in digesting proteids 
than in digesting fat. In the later months a higher propor- 
tion of proteids can be taken with the same percentage of fat. 
There are, however, other conditions besides age which must 
be taken into account, such as the vigor of constitution, the 
weight, and most of all, the peculiarities of the child's diges- 
tion. It is, therefore, impossible to say that at certain 
months certain proportions are desirable, and certain others 
at another period. 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Three Times the Proteids. 
This is nearly the relation which the fat and proteids bear 
to each other in a good sample of woman's milk. The easiest 
way to arrive at this would seem to be, first, to secure some 
milk or milk combination containing three times as much fat 
as proteids, and then dilute this according to the infant's age 
and digestion. After such dilution it will be necessary only 
to add the requisite amount of sugar and, when desired, 
lime water to complete the modification. This, in brief, is the 
whole process. 

The most convenient combination for dilution is one con- 
taining 10 per cent, fat and 3.3 per cent, proteids. I shall 
call it a 10 per cent, milk, and refer to it subsequently as 
the primary formula of the First Series. The 10 per cent, 
milk may be obtained by removing the upper portion (see 
Fig. 1) from a quart bottle of milk, as described (p. 417, 
418). This method will answer for persons who can obtain 
milk fresh from the cow, or for those who use bottled milk, 
provided the bottling is done at the dairy before the cream 
rises. The upper milk may be taken off with a siphon, spoon, 
or small dipper (Fig. 2) ; pouring off is not so accurate. 
For those who do not get their milk as above described, the 
additional fat can be secured by adding cream to the milk. 



420 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

To secure a combination containing 10 per cent, fat, equal 
parts of plain milk and the ordinary (16 per cent.) cream 
should be used. 

The next step is the manner and degree of dilution of the 
primary formula. It is convenient^ in our calculation to 
make up twenty ounces of the food at a time. For such a 
twenty-ounce mixture it is seldom necessary to use less than 
two ounces of our 10 per cent. milk. When one wishes to 
strengthen the food he gradually increases the amount of the 
10 per cent, milk, one ounce at a time, making it successively 
three ounces, four ounces, five ounces, six ounces, etc., in a 
twenty-ounce mixture, the water, of course, being reduced 
by the same amount. 

These mixtures may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat is always exactly 
one-half the number of ounces of the 10 per cent, milk used 
in a twenty-ounce mixture. Thus, using three ounces will 
give 1.5 per cent, fat; four ounces, 3 per cent, fat; six 
ounces, 3 per cent, fat, etc. The proteids will continue to be 
in every instance exactly one-third the fat, as in the primary 
formula. 

The amount of milk sugar needed to bring this up to the 
percentage usually required (5.5 to 6.5) is one ounce in each 
twenty-ounce mixture. One may obtain from a druggist a 
box holding exactly one ounce of sugar, or may measure in a 
tablespoon, calculating two and one-half even tablespoonfuls 
as one ounce. This sugar is dissolved in the water used for 
diluting the milk. 

The usual proportion of limewater added is 5 per cent., or 
one ounce in a twenty-ounce mixture; this may be easily in- 
creased to any desired quantity. The foregoing directions 
may be expressed in the following table : 
, First Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 3 :1. 

Primary Formula. 10 per cent, milk — or fat 10 per cent., 
sugar 4.3 per cent, proteids 3.3 per cent. Obtained (1) as 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (2) equal parts 
milk and (16 per cent.) cream. 



INFANT FEEDING 



431 






fUm 



3 



^ 






o 



»o 






CO ^H 



a 






Cj 



o 



OOO-H^ 



Ph 1-. 
m 

. 3 

oo 

01 



i/^ VO \0 vo vO 



^HCStSCOCO 



6? » 

o 



CO -^ lO ^ t-- 



•g a - ^ ;s :: 

O O • 

M:s ^ ;± ;i :± 

■ -o 




8 






?> 
■£ 






■^ ID VO t^ 00 ON O 



OO §5 = =. = ;:-» gOg 

•-t 1-t O ^ '-I /-^ 

: :° :j2 

!3 «) "i iSS "^ 

McScy ---""-" MgCT 

> 



Making more than a twenty-ounce mixture will be found 
very simple if we calculate for twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five 
ounces, etc. Thus for twenty-five ounces we add one-fourth 



423 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

more of each ingredient ; for thirty ounces one-half more, etc. 
For twenty-iive ounces of eleven, therefore, the exact formula 
would be : 10 per cent, milk, three and three-quarter ounces ; 
milk sugar, one and one-quarter ounces; limewater, one and 
one-quarter ounces; water q. s. to make twenty-five ounces — 
i. e., twenty ounces.^ 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Twice the Proteids. Here 
we first obtain a combination, or primary formula, in which 
the fat and proteids stand in the relation of two to one, and 
then dilute this, adding milk sugar and limewater to complete 
the modification. 

The primary formula most conveniently obtained for this 
purpose is one containing 7 per cent, fat and 3.5 per cent, 
proteids, or a 7 per cent. milk. This we may get by removing 
the upper portion from a quart bottle of milk, as described on 
page 418. Or in case milk and cream are used, instead of 
this upper milk, it will be necessary to add one part ordinary 
(16 per cent.) cream to three parts milk. The dilution is 
accomplished in the same general way as with the First 
Series. 

These formulas may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat in any formula is 
exactly seven-twentieths, or about one-third, the number of 
ounces of the 7 per cent, milk in a twenty-ounce mixture. 
Thus three ounces in the mixture will give about 1 per cent, 
fat; five ounces will give 1.6 per cent.; nine ounces about 3 
per cent., etc. In the following table these directions are 
expressed : 

Second Series of Formulas. Fattoproteids,3:l. (Seep. 421). 

Primary Formula. 7 per cent, milk — or fat 7 per cent., 
sugar 4.40 per cent., proteids 3.50 per cent. Obtained (1) as 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (2) by using three 
parts milk and one part (16 per cent.) cream. 

With these, as with the First Series, if more than twenty 

' For method of calculating any number of ou. -ces of any formula derived 
from 10 per cent, milk, see footnote on page 423. 



INFANT FEEDING 423 

ounces are required, we may make twenty-five, thirty, or forty 
ounces by using of each ingredient one-quarter more, one-half 
more, or twice as much.^ 

Formulas in Which the Fat and Proteids are Nearly Eqiml. 
In general formulas are more often used for healthy infants 
during the later months; but there are many conditions of 
disturbed digestion in which formulas having this relation of 
fat and proteids are desirable during the early months. This 
series of formulas is obtained by using as a starting-point 
plain milk and variously diluting it. The exact percentages 
of fat and proteids obtained with the different dilutions of 
milk, and the amount of sugar necessary to bring this up to 
the desired quantity, are shown in the table below. The sugar 
in the higher formulas is reduced for the reason that with 
them the child will probably be taking a considerable part of 
his carbohydrates in the form of starch. 

Third Series of Formulas. Pat to proteids, 8 tT. (Seep. 

424.) 

Primary Formula. Whole milk: Fat 4 per cent., sugar 
4.5 per cent., proteids 3.5 per cent. (When using Jersey or 
Alderney milk add one-fourth water.) 

1 One may readily calculate any formula of any numbep of ounces which 
may be desired in either the first or the second series in the following way: 

There is wanted, for example, 35 ounces of a mixture containing 3 per 
cent fat. 6 per cent sugar, 1.50 per cent proteids. In this combination the 
fat is twice the proteids. It will therefore be derived from 7 per cent. milk. 

35 (No. ounces needed) X 3 (percentage fat desired) =105 (parts of fat 
required). 105-4-7 (parts of fat in milk used) = 15 (No. ounces of 7 per 
cent, milk needed). . , . . . . „ 

The amount of sugar required is found as follows. 

7 per cent, milk has 4.40 per cent, sugar. , . ^, , 

15 X 4 40 i= 66 (parts of sugar in the milk used in the formula). 

66 — 35 = 1.88 (percentage of sugar in the formula of 35 ounces). 

There is needed, therefore, an addition of about 4 per cent, of sugar to 
bring it to the desired percentage. ,, .. 

4 per cent, of 35 = 1.40 (No. ounces sugar to be added). 



424 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



^ 



^ 



S 



hO 

n, m 



. O 

uo 



S 



13 



Ph 



CLi eg B s a 



SSJ2 


2 


gS 






■.-Ht-I^H 


C^ 


cscs 




gdo'dooooo 




a 

8 


a a 








as:!: 




pioS 


^& ■ : 








OVO*^ 


ugar 
4.00 
5.00 


88S8SS 




a 


a a 


^ 

(© 


lO »OtOu^lOIO 




"J ; : 




1.20 
1.60 
2.00 




00 r4 


1?§g2ggSS8 


s !S a 


« 


a a 


3 


II II 


II II II II II II 


1 

S 3 S 


II 

a 


II II 
a a 


s 
1 


it" 
ft 


= s s "K 

ft' ' 


a - !s 


a 


a a 


'^ 


^' 


a s s ^ 

E 


a a s 

vOOOO 


a 
a 


a a 


S5 
o 
-S 

i 


1- 


a a a a a a 




El 















CUa 3 



fe?. 



s- - 

ft 



o «• 



l=ltl> > 



>> 



Ti<O\lO'-HON00\OlO 

,-1 ^-H '-H '-H 

,£ia asanas 



H l-l hH t« t> t^ '-' *-" 



INFANT FEEDING 



425 



CO 

H 

o 

C6 

M 

n 

CJ 
■as 
H 
f!i 

P4 

o 
f» 

p 



o 

n 
n 

Hi 






! >tO ooo^^o^iHO»-<*-<*MC*iMOOi-<*Hno^»-i^e*ic>Jc*5'*'^'^ 



M g 






JS:' 



MS 



Ow 



9 w 



(S* 












i.o.. 



^s? 



• Oi-iMiO* • » e^* • • » «H fj to Ov Ot 0\ 



s;s; jssjs; 



s:is^s;:s 



e*I r4 «>H r^ c<4 N r4 N cs CS e«3 CO r^ r^ tC t^ (^ f*) c^ to ro *1< ^ 1^"^ ^ ^ ^ «^ ^ ^ 



«• N M M CO fO *0 fO f*J l*> to « ro • id*'^-^-4<* lO lO m »o lO to lO >o lO 



• (M* rOtO(0» i^Tt"* I01010»0>0» • I0t0»0» • • o « \o *o to ^o "O 



O « *0» • ^^» • to* » >0*0>0\0» * » t*t^» • • • 000000000000 



lo lo I.O V} lo lo lo to >mo lO to lO to >o to >0 lO lO lO >o >o to lO to (O >o lO to to 



•OOiOOlOOOtOOOtOOioOOOiOOtoOOtOOiOOOOOOO 
C«JiOOIiO»^OtO*~-OtOt^O«NtOOtOr-0»-iiO>Ot^OCS«OOiOOOO 



OOOOOiHOOiMOO^^i 



nes (N to tOfO 



I to too O O to O to O O O O O to to O O lO to to o o o o o o 5 o o to 



^^I0l0t0i0t0t0'0\00\0'0*00v0'000t0»0*0t»t^»^**»c»-t-~'0t0 



^ ^^ 



OOOtototOOOOOOOtOtOtOtOiOOOOOOOOOOO 
csNe*tCSesCNC^tOrorotOroeOtOrOco(OtO^^T}<^^<^^^W^ 



426 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

For 25-ouiice mixtures multiply the amount of each ingredient by 114 

ft ntk ft tt (t it ft ({ it ' n 11/ 

" 35 " " " " " " " " 1% 

" 40 " " " " " " " " 2 

it Ar t( tc tt <t tc « n it 01/ 

* Combination impossible with strength of cream indicated. 

Table for Estimation of Fat Percentages in Cream 

To determine the fat percentage of the cream: 
One quart of whole milk, of 4% fat, will yield on an average, ap- 
proximately: 

Cream 10% fat in upper 11 ounces after standing 8 hpurs or more. 

ti 12^ " " " 8 " '* " 8 " '* *' 

" 16% " " " 6 " " " 8 " " " 

" 20% " " " 4 " " " 8 " " " 

Fat-free milk is the lowest 8 ounces after standing 8 or more hours. 



A sugar measure is approximately one level tablespoonful. One 
measure to a twenty-ounce mixture gives 2 per cent, of sugar, from 
which fact one may easily increase or decrease the sugar percentage 
in any of the above formulse. 



INFANT FEEDING 



427 



TABLE II 
Theoretical Basis for Feeding a Healthy Infant 












Proteids if 






, a 














split. 


Amount 


i.s 


Si 
















at each 
feeding in 


•^TJ 


■^ d 




fli 


1 


1 


i 
1 




ii 


Hi 


Is 




1 


oz. 


C.C. 




Prema- 


1.00 


4.00 


0.25 


0.25 


0,25 


%-% 


3.75- 


l-l<^ 24-18 




ture 














22.50 








1.50 


4.50 


0,25 


0.50 


0,25 










At 




















term 


2.00 


5.00 


0.50 


0.50 


0.25 


1 


30 


2 10 




End of 




















2dwk. 


2.50 


5.50 


0.50 


0,50 


0.25 


2 


60 


2 10 




End of 




















3d. wk. 


3.00 


6.00 


0.75 


0,75 


0.25 


'2H 


75 


2 9 




End of 




















4th wk. 


3.50 


6.50 


1,00 


0.75 


0.50 


3 


90 


2 8 


Note.—The data giv- 


End of 


















en ia this table are sim- 


oth wk. 


4.00 


7.00 


1,00 


0.90 


0.60 


3 


90 


2J^ 8 


ply a guide to the rule 


End of 


















for feeding of the aver - 


8th wk. 


4.00 


7.00 


1.25 


0.90 


0.75 


3J^ 


105 


2H 7 


age healthy baby.They 


End of 


















are only approximate, 


12th wk 


4.0O 


7.00 


1.50 


0.90 


1.00 


4 


120 


214 7 


and not intended to be 


End of 


















followed in cases of 


4 mo. 


4.00 


7.00 


1.50 


0,75 


1.25 


m 


135 


2H 7 


difficult feeding, with- 


End of 


















out due consideration 


5 mo. 


4.00 


7.00 


1.75 






S}i 


165 


3 6 


to the individual re- 


End of 


















quirements. 


6 mo. 


4.00 


7.00 


2.00 






6 


180 


3 6 




End of 




















«mo. 


4.00 


7.00 


2.50 






7 


210 


3 6 




End of 




















9 mo. 


4.00 


7.00 


3.00 






8 


240 


3 6 




End of 




















10 mo. 


4.00 


6.00 


3.00 






8 


240 


3 6 




End of 




















11 mo. 


4.00 


5.00 


3.00 






10 


300 


3 S 




End of 




















12 mo. 


4.0O 


4.75 


3.50 






13 


300 


3 5 





428 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

TABLE III 

Method of Calculating Whey Mixtures from the Card 

The percentages of fats, proteids, and lime-water are calculated by 
the card. Three-fourths (J^) of the proteid in the formula chosen 
will be caseinogen, and one-fourth (}^) whey proteids, that is. 
Formulae calling for 0.25 proteid give approximately 0.20 caseinogen. 
" " " 0.50 «' « « 0.40 

" " " 0.75 " " " 0.50 " 

« « •' 1.00 " " " 0.75 " 

•' " " 1.25 " " " 1.00 " 

« « " 1.50 " " " 1.20 " 

To calculate the additional amount of whey needed to make the de- 
sired whey-proteid percentage, 
Let W = number of ounces of whey needed. 
" Y=percentage of whey proteid desired. 
" P=proteid percentage in the card formula. 
" Q = total number of ounces of mixture. 



Then (i)W=Q [y^ 



J- 

The maximum in the percentage of whey proteids in any formula is 
obtained when all the watery diluent is replaced by whey. 
To calculate the sugar required beyond that contributed by the 
cream, milk, and whey, 

Let S=percentage of sugar desired. 
" L=number of measures, or level tablespoonfuls, of sugar to be 

added. 
" Z = sugar percentage as given in last column of feeding card. 

Then(2)L=Qi§=g=:^ 

Example: Bt Pat 4.00, sugar 7.00, whey proteid 0.90, caseinogen 0.75, 

lime-water 5.00. Amount, 20 oz. 
Solution: Formula 23 gives 0.75 caseinogen. Use 16% cream. 

Cream = 5 ounces. 

Fat-free milk = 1 " 

Whey = 20 [o.90— ^-]=13 

Lime-water = 1 " 

ATn 20(7— 1.42)— 5X13 ,,^,,^., 

Milk sugar = — =^ j^r^ =1.16 (1%) measures. 



INFANT FEEDING 



429 



TABLE IV 
Caloric Value of Formulae Given oU Card 



No. 






No. 






No. 






1. 


334 calories. 


11. 


555 calories. 


21. 


642 calories. 


2. 


344 


a 


12. 


566 


ti 


22. 


648 


it 


3. 


401 


it 


13. 


576 


u 


23. 


690 


a 


4. 


411 


u 


14. 


606 


u 


24. 


710 


it 


,S. 


421 


ti 


15. 


626 


u 


25. 


720 


tt 


6. 


452 


u 


16. 


591 


11 


26. 


741 


it 


7. 


4S8 


il 


17. 


601 


tl 


27. 


762 


it 


8. 


488 


u 


18. 


631 


a 


28. 


782 


tt 


9. 


520 


it 


19. 


642 


ti 


29. 


741 


it 


10. 


545 


tt 


20. 


653 


u 


30. 


720 


it 



To Estimate the Caloric Value of Food Taken. 

Example : An infant takes 6 feedings of 210 c.c each of Formula 
25, the caloric value of which is 720. The caloric value of the food 
ingested is, then, 

^^ X 720 = 906.2 calories. 
lUUO 



To Estimate Weight Development of an Infant. 

To estimate the weight development of any infant, calculate as fol- 
lows: — 

Weight of an infant 

Weight index = 

Weight of average infant of same age 
Example: An infant of 18 weeks weighs 12 lbs. 

Its weight index =i%4=.85. Its weight development = .85X100= 
85 per cent. 



430 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



TABLE V 

Methods of Calculating approximately the Percentage Composition 
of a Food from Known Amounts of Ingredients used 

Let C = number of ounces of cream used. 
" M = number of ounces of fat-free milk used. 
" L= number of measures of milk sugar (or level tablespoonfuls). 
" Q = total quantity of mixture in ounces. 

„, ,,STK ^ i CXfat percentage of cream 
Then (1) Fat percentage = -^ '^ ^r — ^ 

3.50 (C+M). 



(2) Proteid percentage = 

(3) Sugar percentage = 



Q 

4.75 (C+M) +40 L. 



Q 

If whole milk is used in place of fat-free milk, add to the quotient in 
(1) the amount of fat contributed by the whole milk, M^ standing for 
number of ounces used; i. e., 

(4) Fat percentage in milk = — pr — ' 

Example: A 20-ounce mixture consists of 7 ounces of 10 per cent, 
cream, 2 ounces of fat-free milk, 1 ounce of lime-water, 10 ounces of 
boiled water, 2}4 measures of sugar. 

7X10 
Solution: Pat percentage = — ^^r — =3.50%. 

Proteid " = ?:M^hl) =1.57%. 

Sugar « ^ 4.75(7+2R40X2M ,,,3y^^ 

The fat percentage of cream must be calculated by reference to the 
cream table page 426. 



INFANT FEEDING 431 

rORUTTLAE FOR FREFARING INFANT FOOD FROU FTJRE STER- 
ILIZED SUQAR OF UILE 

Fresh, Pure Milk, 1 ounce. 

(about 2 tablespoonfuls) 
Fresh Cream, 1% ounces. 

(about 3 tablespoonfuls) 
Patch's Sugar of Milk, 3% drachms. 

(4 even teaspoonfuls) 
Bicarbonate of Sodium, 1 grain. 

(or use fresh limewater, 2 teaspoonfuls) 
Water, 5 ounces. 

(1% gills) 

Mix enough for one day's use, and sterilize. Be sure feeding bot- 
tles, nipples, etc., are kept perfectly clean. 

SCHEME FOR FEEDING BABIES 

Society of the lying-In Hospital, New York City i 

First Day. — Give from nursing bottles 30 C.C. (1 ounce) of 6 per 

cent, sugar water every 3 hours, from 6:45 P. M. to 9:45 p. M., 

inclusive, and if necessary one bottle at 3:45 a.m. 
Second Day. — 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to 1% ounce) of Formula No I 

in nursing bottle, every 2 hours from 6:45 A. M. to 10:45 P. M., 

and 3:45 a.m. — ten feedings. 
Third Day. — Same as second day. 
Fourth Day. — If there is milk in mother's breast, nurse every 2 

hours as on second day. If . there is no milk in mother's 

breast, 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to 1% ounce) of Formula No. 

II every 2 hours, as on second day. 
Fifth and Sixth Day. — For breast fed babies ten feedings as in second 

day. For bottle fed babies same as fourth day. 
Seventh to Fourteenth Days. — For breast fed babies ten feedings. 

For bottle fed babies 30 to 75 C.C. (1 ounce to 2% ounces) of 

Formula No. Ill for ten feedings. 

Formulx 

Sugar Solution 6 per cent.: 

Take 30 grams (1 ounce) sugar of milk arid dissolve in 500 C.C, 
(1 pint) boiled water. 

Formula No. I 
Fat, 0.5 per cent.; sugar, 6 per cent; proteid, 0.5 per cent.: 
Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts. 
iDiet used at the Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New Yorls City. 



433 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Plain milk 1 part, 60 C.C. (2 ounces) lime water for every 500 
C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture. 

FORMTJLA No. II 
Fat, 1 per cent.; sugar, 6 per cent.; proteid, 0.5 per cent.: 
Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts j 12 per cent, cream % 
part; milk 14 part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) lirnewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 
mixture. 

Formula No. Ill 
Fat, 1.5 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.5 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 
part. 60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of 
food mixture. 

Formula No. IV 
Fat, 2 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.6 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 5 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 
part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 
mixture. 

Formula No. V 
Fat, 2.5 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.8 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 4 parts; 12 per cent, cream I 
part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 
mixture. 

Notes 

1. For every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture add 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) of lime water. 

2. 12 per cent, cream is the top fifth of a bottle of milk after stand- 
ing about 5 hours. 

3. It is the top 200 CO. (7 ounces) of 1,000 C.C. (1 quart) of 
milk after standing about 5 hours. 

4. If the milk is of rich quality the top 240 C.C. (8 ounces) can 
be taken. 

5. Up to two weeks the amount of each feeding is 30 C.C. ( 1 
ounce) to 75 C.C. (2'/^ ounces) according to weight, digestion and 
capacity. 

From two to five weeks the amount of each feeding is 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) to 100 C.C. (3% ounces). 

Number of daily feedings 10. From 6:45 a.m. to 10:45p. m; 
From 10:45 p.m. to 6:45. a.m., one feeding should suffice. 



INFANT FEEDING 433 

FEPT06ENIG MILK POWDER IIODIEIES COW'S MILE 

by a physiological process, makes the casein of cows' milk sol- 
uble and digestible like the proteins of mothers' milk, and 
gives a food for infants which behaves in the stomach like the 
food that Nature provides under favorable conditions. 

Directions for Using Peptogenio Milk Powder 
Formula No. 1 — For Infants of First Few Weeks 
Milk, 6% ozs. (% cup). Cream, 1 oz. (or "top" milk, 2 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 cups). ozs.). 

Peptogenio Milk Powder, ll^ 
measure. 
The hottle cap is the measure 

Place the Peptogenlc Milk Powder into a clean saucepan, add the 
pure cold water, mix perfectly; add the fresh cold milk and cream; 
mix well and heat with constant stirrjng until "lukewarm" (95 to 
100° F.), not too hot to be agreeably borne by the mouth; keep at 
about lukewarm for 8 minutes, then bring quickly just to boiling 
point in the open saucepan, or " pasteurise " by heating to only 160- 
165° F. ; pour at once into a clean bottle, cork tightly, shake thor- 
oughly and put on ice or in a very cold place. 

When a feeding is required, pour out the portion and warm to 
proper temperature for nursing; always shake the bottle well before 
and after pouring out a, feeding. 

Formula No. 2 — For Infants From I to 6 Months 
Milk, 8 ozs. (1 cup) Cream, l-lVaOzs. (3 tablespoonf uls ) . 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 cups) Peptogenic Milk Powder, 1-1% measure. 
Heat this milk mixture to about lukewarm (95-100° F. ) and keep 
at this temperature for 5 minutes, then bring quickly just to boiling 
point, or " pasteurize " by heating to only 160-165° F. 

Formula No. 3 — For Infants From 6 Months to 1 Year 
Milk, 16 ozs. (2 cups) Cream, 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) . 

Water, 16 ozs. Peptogenic Milk Powder, 2 measures. 

Prepare this milk mixture precisely as in Formula No. 2. 



CHAPTEK XXII 
THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 

Whether the child be fed at the breast or with the bottle, the 
period from the tenth to the fifteenth month is usually one 
of transition. For the breast-fed baby it is often more critical 
than for the artificially fed, as the former has now to become 
accustomed to cow's milk and to a different method of feeding 
at the same time, unless it has been on mixed feeding or has 
learned to take water from a bottle. By the ninth month, 
bottle-fed infants may have cereals added to the milk in the 
form of thoroughly cooked gruel. By the beginning of the 
first year, there may be added to the diet strained cereals in 
the form of jelly, stale bread, zwieback or toast, soft-cooked 
egg (especially the yolk), and thin cream. Throughout the 
growing period, every child should get at least one quart of 
milk a day. Milk supplies the elements of growth liberally 
and in readily available forms. Orange juice or prune pulp 
should be given daily. By the twentieth month, systematic 
training in chewing should begin. In the latter part of the 
second year, well-cooked, strained or finely-mashed, easily- 
digested vegetables are added to the diet, and any mild fruit, 
cooked (or fresh if in perfect condition) and free from in- 
digestible residues, may be given in moderate quantities. If 
a distaste for milk arises, the variety of other foods should 
be cut down and every effort made to lead the child back to 
it. Too much other food, especially if highly flavored, is fre- 
quently the cause of this dislike. 

Meat is undesirable for young children, and should not be 
given before the fourth year, and preferably not till the eighth 
or ninth year, as sufficient protein is obtainable from milk and 
eggs. Sweet fruits, as prunes and dates, are preferable to 

434 



THE FEEDING OF YOU NO CHILDREN 435 

pure sugar, as they contain valuable ash constituents and are 
less likely to destroy the taste for other proper food. 

Tea, coffee, beer, and even cOcoa except occasionally and 
very weak, should be prohibited. The child should no more 
expect to eat the same food as an adult than to dress like one. 
But his diet should be limited in quality rather than quantity, 
as he requires much more in proportion than an adult on 
account of his requirements for growth and his great activity. 
Up to five years of age, about eighty calories per kilogram 
seemsto be desirable. 

A well-known dispensary sends out printed instructions for 
the people of its neighborhood, prohibiting all eating"t>etween 
meals, and forbidding all pastry, coffee, tea, alcoholics and 
carbonated drinks, in the case of children of any age. 

Those under seven years of age are allowed no preserved 
meats or fish, no hot bread, griddle cake, or nuts, no corn, 
cucumbers or egg plant. 

For those under four years no stews, tomatoes, bananas, or 
any fruit in hot weather. 

Children up to the age of eighteen months are to be limited 
entirely to milk, meat broths, orange juice and cooked and 
strained cereals; with, in exceptional cases, zwieback, biscuit 
and soft-cooked eggs. 

Such education means much for the development of hardy 
mon and women. Undernutrition is not due alone to pov- 
erty; much of it comes from ignorance. 

GENERAL RULES FOB FEEBIKG YOUNG CHILDREN 
Thompson i 

1. Allow time for meals. 

2. See that the food is thoroughly masticated. 

3. Do not allow nibbling between meals. 

4. Do not tempt the child with the sight of rich and in- 
digestible food. 

5. Do not force the child to eat against its will, but exam- 

^W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Lppleton & Co. 



43G DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ine the mouth, which may be sore from erupting teeth; and 
examine the food, which may not be properly cooked or 
flavored. If good food is refused from peevishness merely, 
remove it and do not offer it again before the next time. 
6. In acute illness reduce and dilute the food at once. 

Table of Comparisons, Food Required by Child and Man 

A child under 2 requires 0.3 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 3 to 5 requires 0.4 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 6 to 9 requires 0.5 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A chifd of 10 to 13 requires 0.6 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A girl of 14 to 16 requires 0.7 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A boy of 14 to 16 requires 0.8 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

Prof. W. 0. Atwatee. 

Table showing Increase of Calories required for a Growing Child 









Carbo- 




Age. 


Proteid. 


Fat. 


HYDRATES. 


Calories. 


years. 


grammes. 


grammes. 


grammes. 




1% 


42.5 


35.0 


100 


909.7 


2 


45.5 


36.0 


110 


972.4 


3 


50.0 


38.0 


120 


1050.4 


4 


53.0 


41.5 


135 


1156.8 


5 


56.0 


43.0 


145 


1224.0 


8 to 9 


60.0 


44.0 


150 


1270.0 


12 to 13 


72.0 


47.0 


245 


1736.8 


14 to 15 


79.0 


48.0 


270 


1877.3 



Hutchison, p. 453. Schroeder, Archiv. fiir Hygiene, iv. 39, 1886. 

DIETARIES FOR YOUNG CHILDREN 

Starr i 
Diet from the twelfth to the eighteenth month: 

7 A. M., stale bread soaked in a breakfast cup of new milk. 

10 A.M., milk, six ounces, and' soda biscuit, or a thin slice of but- 
tered bread. 

» Louis Starr, M.D.: "Hygiene of the Nursery." Philadelphia. Blak- 
iston. 



TEE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 437 

2 P. M., beef tea, six ounces, bread, and a tablespoonful of rice 
and milk pudding. 

6 P. M., same as first meal. 

10 p. M., a. tablespoonful of Mellins' Food in eight ounces of milk. 
In alternation, a lightly boiled egg with bread crumbs and six 

ounces of milk may be given at 7 A. M., and at 2 p. M. a mashed 
baked potato, moistened with four tablespoonfuls of beef tea, two 
tablespoonfuls of junket. 

Diet from the eighteenth to the thirtieth month: 

7 A. M., new milk, eight ounces ; the yolk of an egg lightly boiled ; 
two thin slices of bread and butter, or else milk, and two table- 
spoonfuls of well-cooked oatmeal or wheaten grits, with sugar and 
cream. 

11a. m., milk, six ounces, with a soda biscuit' or bread and butter. 

2 p. M., one tablespoonful of rare mutton pounded to a paste, 
•bread and butter, or mashed potatoes moistened with good dish 
gravy, a saucer of junket; or else a breakfast cupful of beef tea or 
mutton or chicken broth, a thin slice of stale bread, a saucer of rice 
and milk pudding. 

6:30 P.M., a breakfast cupful of milk with bread and butter, or 
soft milk toast. 

Diet from two and a half to three and a, half years of age; children 
uho have cut their milk teeth: 
7 A. M., one or two tumblers of milk, a saucer of thoroughly cooked 
oatmeal or wheaten grits, a slice of bread and butter. 

1 1 A. M. ( if hungry ) , a tumbler of milk or a, teaeupf ul of beef tea 
with a, biscuit. 

2 P. M., a slice of underdone roast beef or mutton, or a bit of roast 
chicken or turkey, minced as fine as possible, a mashed baked potato 
moistened with dish gravy, a slice of bread and butter, a saucer of 
junket or rice and milk pudding. 

7 p. M., a, tumbler of milk and a slice or two of soft milk toast. 

Diet from three and a half years up: 

Breakfast. — Every day: milk, porridge and cream, bread and 
butter. 
One dish only each day: Fresh fish, eggs lightly boiled, 
poached, eggs scrambled, eggs (plain omelet), chicken hash, 
stewed kidney, stewed liver. ^ 

Sound fruit may be allowed before and after the meal, accord- 
ing to taste, as oranges without pulp, grapes (seeds not to be 
swallowed), peaches, thoroughly ripe pears, and cantaloupes. 
Dinner. — Every day: Clear soup, meat roasted or broiled and 
cut into small pieces, bread and butter. 



438 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Two dishes each day: Potatoes baked, potatoes mashed, 
spinach, stewed celery, cauliflower, hominy, macaroni (plain), 
peas, string beans (young), green corn (grated). 

Junket, rice and milk or other light puddings, and occasionally 
ice cream, may be allowed for dessert. 
Supper. — Every day: Milk, with toast or bread and butter, 
stewed fruit. 

rrom the third to the fifth year the child has twenty teeth, 
and often three meals a day sufiice, although from the third to 
the fourth year four may be given. After three years of age 
it is not possible to lay down definite rules for the quantity 
of food allowed. In, health the appetite may be taken as a 
fair guide, and thfe child will not eat too much if taught to 
eat very slowly, and thoroughly chew each mouthful. 

When the second set of teeth begin to replace the deciduous' 
or milk teeth, which gradually decay, digestion is sometimes 
interfered with temporarily, from lack of ability to masticate 
thoroughly, and food should be subdivided before it is offered 
to the child. 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF FEEDING SICK CHILDREN 

Since this work has been chiefly devoted, as the title im- 
plies, to the relationship between diet and disease, the amount 
of space given to the feeding of presumably normal children 
may occasion some wonderment. But the chief difference be- 
tween the dietetics of the infant and adult lies in the fact that 
the bottle infant and the weanling, nominally healthy, have 
to be dieted to prevent disease. This has now come to be 
realized on all sides. In classic and mediaeval times an infant 
which could not get breast milk usually perished. The wean- 
ing period was somewhat less trying, but millions of children 
must have succumbed to the ordeal of changing to solid food. 
Improvement in feeding means a direct lessening of infant 
mortality, as modern statistics testify. 

Colic and Vomiting (Regurgitation) are almost physiolog- 
ical, so common is their occurrence; they do not arise from 
any single cause, and the fact that breast-fed infants suffer 
almost as frequently as the bottle-fed, often more so, shows 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 439 

that such ailments are not entirely preventable by care in feed- 
ing. In breast-fed children, these symptoms are best con- 
trolled by lengthening the period between feedings. In bottle- 
fed children, besides lengthening the nursing interval, special 
pains should be taken in the modification of the milk. These 
symptoms may occur quite independently of diet. Chilling 
of the body surface, coughing, improper handling, a too snug 
binder, etc., may be the true cause of the trouble. Even in 
breast-fed infants under ideal conditions, the mother's milk 
may not be well-borne. It may in fact be so rich in fat and 
protein as to require dilution; which of course in the breast- 
fed may be accomplished only by giving the infant water be- 
fore or after nursing. 

Gavage. Of late years the use of the stomach sound in 
feeding sick nurslings has come into considerable vogue in 
foundling asylums and the like. This resource has a con- 
siderable range of application. Thus in premature infants 
(which do not nurse readily) ; in all infants which refuse to 
nurse ; and in infants sick from any cause, especially when the 
nerve centers, swallowing or breathing apparatus are involved, 
or when continuous vomiting is present, the use of the stom- 
ach tube may save life. Very young babies are fed much 
more readily than older ones, since they are less liable to 
fright. The tube used is a soft rubber catheter, which is 
coupled with a small funnel. The catheter is first passed 
down the gullet. In order to have plenty of leeway, it is an 
advantage to unite the catheter to a second rubber tube with 
a piece of glass tubing. The second rubber tube is then 
coupled to the funnel. If the case be one of vomiting, it is 
often necessary to wash out the stomach before the introduc- 
tion of nourishment, however given. The term lavage, used 
for washing out the stomach, must not be confounded with 
gavage, which means literally forced feeding. Complete de- 
tails will be found in works on obstetrics and obstetric nurs- 
ing. Edgar says of gavage, that the infant to be fed should 
lie on its back in the nurse's arms, its own arms held to its 
iides, while an extra assistant steadies the head. The tube 



440 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS • 

having been passed, the modified milk or other nutriment is 
poured into the funnel, and as the latter empties itself the 
tube is pinched to prevent escape. While regurgitation may 
occur and necessitate a repetition of the act, it very often 
happens that food taken in this manner is much better re- 
tained than if taken by nursing the breast or bottle. The 
exertion required by nursing, the swallowing of air, etc., are 
avoided in gavage. To recapitulate, the conditions in which 
gavage has been found life saving, are given by Edgar in the 
following order: 

Prematurity (especially in incubator babies) ; after opera- 
tions on the nose and throat; habitual vomiting; pneumonia, 
diphtheria and scarlet fever. The Jaws of the nursling can 
usually be separated to receive the gavage-tube. But if there 
is inflammation of the mouth or locking of the jaws (or if 
intubation has been required for diphtheritic cases) it may be 
necessary to resort to nasal feeding (see p. 79). 

Diarrhoea. Under this familiar term, which includes the 
mildest looseness of the bowels as well as the severest symp- 
toms of cholera and dysentery, may be included the greater 
part of the morbidity of the nursling. Death certificates of 
babies, especially in summer months, chiefly specify this cause. 
The diarrhoea makes itself felt in a variety of ways. If con- 
joined with vomiting we may term it a gastro-enteritis, and 
state that a given child died from inability to profit by its 
nourishment. But many infants succumb, not because their 
nourishment is rejected outright, but rather from the fact that 
it is not utilized. We can understand death when due to vio- 
lent vomiting and diarrhoea; but the slow death from non- 
utilization of food, such as occurs so extensively in bottle-fed 
tenement house children, still remains largely a mystery, which 
has been explained in the most diverse ways. The amount 
and character of gastro-intestinal disturbance present is not 
suflBcient, in many cases at least, to explain the total failure 
of nutrition. It is in the effort to combat this condition that 
so many methods of feeding have come into use. As in all 
stubborn and imperfectly understood conditions, with a bad 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 441 

outlook for recovery, many substances have been tested, and 
many recoveries have been recorded. If a threatening diar- 
rhoea appears, with or v^ithout vomiting, the best course to 
pursue at first seems to be fasting. Sterile water may be al- 
lowed but milk is prohibited. There is in these cases some 
special reason for forbidding plain milk (see remarks on the 
use of whey-free milk, p. 190). It is believed by some 
authorities that cow's milk or the milk of any animal is poi- 
sonous in these cases. Others would state that milk is danger- 
ous because of one or another solid ingredient, or because it 
furnishes a culture medium for germs. In any case some pre- 
-digested food like panopepton, or some cereal decoction like 
rice or barley water seems better borne. It may also be ad- 
visable at this stage to use certain drugs to control vomiting. 
When the latter has ceased for twenty-four hours, normal feed- 
ing ihay be cautiously resumed. The treatment of these cases 
taxes the utmost resources of the physician, and the mortality 
is enormous. The nurse's duties lie rather in the direction 
of prevention; but if these cases develop, rest of the stomach 
is imperative at first and milk must not be resumed until all 
symptoms are passed. Diarrhoea, dysentery and all gastro- 
intestinal troubles in older children are dieted on the same 
principles as are the same affections in adults. 

Constipation in nurslings is a condition difficult to over- 
come entirely by diet. The familiar remedies are sugar and 
cream, an excess of either of which, over dietetic requirements, 
may loosen the bowels. A prescription of laboratory milk 
may meet .this obstacle, or the corresponding home modifica- 
tion. Fruit juices, oatmeal gruel, etc., are sometimes em- 
ployed. 

Marasmus and Rickets are two conditions generally in- 
cluded under diseases amenable to diet. Infantile Scurvy 
should be named in the same connection. There is no special 
regimen, however, for such affections. A full normal diet 
cannot be improved on. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
THE ADOLESCENT — THE SEDENTARY — THE AGED 

DIET FOE THE ADOLESCENT 

The growing youth needs extra protein food for the build- 
ing of protoplasm and a sufficiency of salts for the rapidly- 
forming tissues; earthy salts for bones, iron for blood, phos- 
phorus for nervous tissue and its general influence on growth, 
obtained from the average liberal mixed diet with milk, eggs, 
fresh fruit and green vegetables, so that no special plan of 
feeding is required. If the adolescent lead a very active ex- 
istence, equivalent to hard labor in an adult, he will naturally 
require the same amount of food with necessary reduction for 
weight, and some allowance for extra protein. Many ado- 
lescents, however, are very sluggish and lead inactive lives, and 
need encouragement to activity, with food in proportion to 
its degree. Again the appetite is npt always a safe guide, 
especially for girls; for the period of adolescence coincides 
with the development of " hysterical " tendencies which may 
be manifested by excessive or diminished craving for food 
without any reference to the actual physical demands. An 
active adolescent may have but little appetite while a slug- 
gish one may be a glutton, or may continually dj ink water. 
The perverted cravings for substances of no nutritive value 
and without appetizing quality, which accompany this period, 
are well known. It is therefore necessary that the diet of this 
period be as carefully supervised as that for the little child. 
The food must conform to the subject's physical requirements, 
and must be administered with discretion, for a large percent- 
age of food aversions are acquired at this time, and it is es- 
sential to the well-being of the individual, and the comfort 
of others, that his eating habits be normal. 

443 



TEE SEDENTARY 443 

DIET FOR THE SEDENTARY 

'No exact rules can be laid down for the dietetics of the 
sedentary. An individual may lead a technically sedentary 
life, and yet use up a great amount of energy, only standing 
and walking muscles being in disuse just as in a person whose 
occupation requires standing and walking, little use may be 
made of arm, shoulder and trunk muscles. A better distinc- 
tion is between out-door and in-door life, or quiet and active 
existence. True sedentary persons lead both a quiescent and 
an in-door existence, chiefly in the sitting posture. The less 
the exertion, the less the requirement for food. Excess of 
food over actual demands is usually manifested by the putting 
on of flesh or by the development of indigestion or metabolic 
disturbances. In theory there should be no such thing as a 
permissible diet for the sedentary, because no one should 
allow himself to lead a purely quiescent existence. It is pos- 
sible to compress a good deal of active exercise in a couple 
of hours of the twenty-four, so that the sedentary person passes 
virtually into the next class above, corresponding to light 
active labor extending through a number of hours. 

While individual estimates vary, it is probable that 1600- 
2000 calories suffice for the average individual on the usual 
basis of 145 pounds weight with the usual reduction for sex. 
As the sedentary person finds it difficult to digest heavy arti- 
cles of food, the food should be easily digestible. Fruit and 
succulent vegetables (salads) are usually well borne by seden- 
tary people, as they induce daily evacuations of the bowels, 
and are not fattening. They are the reverse of condensed 
and highly nutritious foods. 

DIET FOR THE AGED 
As there is a radical distinction between a person merely 
old in years and one who is actually senile, no dietary can 
be devised to suit the case of all those of advanced years. A 
man is technically old at sixty. In theory he should require 
less protein in proportion to carbohydrates than a younger 
man. Many people of both sexes, however, preserve their 



444 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

working capacity far into the sixties and even into the seven- 
ties. Many people can put on flesh up to the age of sixty, 
and it is very important that they do not do so. Their regi- 
men should be practically that of the corpulent. After the 
age of sixty the weight may remain at an equilibrium for some 
years, or with the advent of senile change, the flesh may be- 
.gin to disappear, this loss being physiological. At this period 
less depends on the selection of food than on the quantity 
and thoroughness of mastication. An active, healthy man 
can preserve his condition by cutting down the amount of 
food greatly, and chewing it thoroughly. The demand for 
protein will very likely be satisfied with a small quantity. 
The total fuel requirement will depend upon whether the in- 
dividual exercises or leads a sedentary life. Sedentary elderly 
people can subsist on very little food, and do not difEer much 
in this respect from middle-aged sedentary people. 

A senile person is practically an invalid, and his dietetic 
demands do not differ greatly from those of other invalids 
(aside from the convalescent). If the teeth are more or less 
useless, and mastication cannot be effected by the gums, the 
individual becomes a confirmed dyspeptic. The problem of 
starch digestion becomes a serious one. Milk can be used 
largely. 

In theory sugars could partially replace starches. An ex- 
cellent food under the circumstances is toasted bread, which 
may be dipped in coffee to soften it. In toast the starch be- 
comes changed to dextrin, which is but one step removed from 
sugar. Well-cooked cereals, vegetables (potatoes, greens, etc.) 
and fruits may be used in small quantities in the e:^pectation, 
that they will be digested by the pancreatic juice. 

Special Kegimen: As already suggested, this cannot differ 
in kind from that of the confined invalid or dyspeptic. 

DIET 1 : Soup. — Nutritious soups, such as chicken or fish purge, 
beef tea, mutton or chicken broth. Purges of all kinds. 

Fish. — White fish as sole, whiting, smelts, flounders, etc. (best 
when boiled). 

' Food suitable for the Aged According to Yeo. 



THE AGED 445 

Eggs. — Egg lightly cooked, or beaten up with milk, etc. 

Meats. — Young and tender chicken and game. Other tender 
meats. Potted chicken, game and other potted meats. Sweetbreads, 
bacon grilled. 

Farinaceous. — Bread and butter (bread at least a day old) to be 
soaked in tea or milk or water. Bread and milk, porridge and oat- 
meal gruel. Puddings of ground rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago, maca- 
roni. Prepared foods consisting of predigested starches. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes, carrots, spinach and other succulent veg- 
etables, stewed celery, boiled onions. 

Desserts. — Fruit jellies, stewed or baked fruit. Pulp of perfectly 
ripe raw fruit in small quantity, farinaceous puddings. 

Liquids. — Milk in all forms, and with the addition of warm Vichy 
or warm water, fruit juice. 



RUMFORD 

"THE WHOLESOME" 

Baking Powder 

BEST of the HIGH GRADE Powders. 



Pure and Wholesome. Rumford Is different from and 
superior to all other powders, it being made of the genuine 
Professor Horsford's phosphate, thus supplying the food with 
an element, the strength-giving phosphates, absolutely neces- 
sary to health. Fine wheat flour is of little value as a strength- 
ening food because it is deprived of its phosphates in bolting. 
Rumford Baking Powder supplies these phosphates. 

Perfect Baking Quality. Its action in the dough is 
thorough, making cake, biscuit, muifins, etc., of the finest 
texture, which will retain their fresh condition longer than 
when made with ordinary baking powder or cream tartar. 

No "Baking Powder" taste. Rumford contains no 
alum or cream tartar and gives no bitter or "baking powder " 
taste to the food. Biscuit, etc., made with it retain the 
natural flavor of the grain and it will not impair the most 
delicate flavoring used in cake, etc. 

Every Can Warranted, Rumford will retain its 
strength indefinitely and we guarantee every can 'to give 
satisfaction or money refunded. 

Beasonable Price, Recent improvements enable us 
to sell Rumford at a reasonable price, much less than the 
ordinary high-priced powders. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Main Offices, Providence, R. I. 



446 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



A. 

Acid Beverages . 

Acid Phosphate 

Acid Phosphate Whey 

Apple Water . 

Apollinaris Lemonade . 

Bran Lemonade 

Cream of Tartar Drink 

Currant Water 

Effervescent Lemonade 

Egg Lemonade . 

Pruit Lemonade 

Fruit Punch . . . 

Fruitade 

Grape Juice 

" Iiemonade . 
" Lithia . . . 
" Nectar . 
" Water . . . 

Irish Moss Lemonade . 

Jelly and lee . 

Lemonade . . . , 

Lemon Whey . 

Malted Milk Currant Jelly 

Malted Milk with Wine 

Orangeade . 

Orangeade No. II . 

Pineapple Juice 

Pineapple Lemonade . 

Hhubarb Water 

Soda or Apollinaris Lem- 
onade 

Tamarind Malted Milk 

Tamarind Water . 

Tea Punch .... 

Tutti Frutti Punch . 

Wine Whey .... 
Acid Phosphate (Hobs 
ford's) .... 

Acid Phosphate 

Acid Phosphate Whey 



110 
113 
113 
115 
111 
111 
114 
115 
111 
121 
111 
117 
112 
116 
112 
116 
116 
115 
112 
114 
111 
113 
114 
114 
112 
112 
113 
111 
115 

■ 111 
116 
115 
116 
117 
113 

478 
113 
113 



PACE 

Albuminous Beverages . 118 
Albumin Water . . .122 
Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 



Milk 
" Orange 

" Sherry 

Water 
Beef Egg-nog . 
Coffee Egg-nog 
Egg Broth . . . 

" Lemonade . 
Egg-nog .... 
Egg-nog No. II •. 
Egg and Brandy . 
" and Rum . 
" and Wine . 
Grape Yolk • . . 

" Juice and Egg 
Junket Egg-nog 
Malted Milk and Egg 
Mulled Wine 
Pineapple Egg-nog 
Stokes' Mixture 
Albuminous Jellies 
Beef Jelly . . . 
Calf's Foot Jelly . 
Chicken Broth Jelly 
Panopepton Jelly 



122 
123 
123 
122 
120 
120 
118 
121 
119 
119 
120 
120 
120 
121 
122 
119 
121 
122 
120 
121 
221 
222 
221 
222 
208 
Jelly with Orange 209 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 
" Wine Jelly . 205 

Apples 

Apple Cuban Style . . 280 

" Custard . . .288 

" and Prunes . . 280 

" Tapioca . . .300 

Water . . . 115 

Baked Apples . . . 279 

Stewed Apples .... 279 

Apricoi and Prune Sauce 280 



447 



448 



INDEX TO RECIPES 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Arrowroot Gbuel . . . 


238 


Dry Peptonoids Soluble . 


492 


Asparagus on Toast . . 


268 


Liquid Peptonoids 


215 


Soup . . 223 


-224 


Panopepton 


210 


Boiled Asparagus 


267 


Raw Beef Sandwiches 


217 


Creamed Asparagus . 


268 


Scraped Beef 


217 






Beet Greens 


269 


B. 




Beverages 








Acid Beverages 


110 


Bacon, Broiled . 


151 


Albuminous Beverages 


118 


Curled Bacon . 


151 


Miscellaneous Beverages . 


127 


Baked Custards 




Starchy Beverages . 


, 124 


Baked or Cup Custard . 


288 


Birds (Note Poultry) 


, 152 


" Caramel Custard .' 


290 


Biscuit 




Custard No. II . 


289 


Baking Powder Biscuit . 


, 253 


Chocolate Custard 


289 


Bran Biscuit 


, 253 


Malted Milk Custard . 


290 


" Muffins 


, 2.54 


White Custard 


289 


Cornmeal Gems 


, 254 


Bakino Powder (Rumford) 




Gum Gluten Biscuit . 


252 




446 


" Drop Biscuit 253 


Bananas Baked 


280 


" Muffins 


, 253 


Banana Custard 


288 


Pop Overs , 


, 254 


BARLESr 




White Gems 


, 254 


Barley Oruel . . . . 


238 


Blanc Mange .... 


, 295 


Gruel with Broth 


238 


Chocolate Blanc Mange . 


301 


Gruel or Jelly . 


238 


Boiled Frosting 


320 


Jelly . . . 


244 


Bouillon, Claji 


, 174 


" Water . . 


124 


Clam Bouillon Bisque 


. 175 


Water (for In- 




Bran Tea . 


137 


fants ) 


125 


Bran Lemonade . 


, in 


Bavarian Creasi 


210 


BrJndy and Milk . 


197 


Beep 




Bread ... . . , 


, 247 


Beef Broth 


219 


Baking Powder Biscuit . 


. 253 


" Egg-nog . . . . 


120 


Boston Brown Bread . 


, 252 


" Jelly ... 


222 


Bran Bread 


252 


" Sandwiches 


260 


" Biscuit 


, 253 


Broiled Beef Steak- . . 


149 


" Muffins . . 


. 254 


' Mattre D-HOtel Butter 


149 


Cornmeal Gems 


, 254 


Pan Broiled Beefsteak 




Entire Wheat Bread 


, 251 


Cakes . . . 


149 


Gum Gluten Biscuit . 


. 252 


Roast Beef . 


152 


" Bread 


. 252 


Scraped Beef . 


217 


" Drop Biscuit 253 


Beef Preparations 


212 


" Muffins . 


253 


Beef Essence 


215 


Pop Overs .... 


254 


" Juice . 


214 


White Flour 'Bread 


. 250 


" .Juice (for Infants) 


215 


White Gems . . 


. 254 


" Tea . . . . 


215 


Whole Wheat or Graham 


" Tea Frozen . 


216 


Bread .... 


. 251 


" Tea with Hydro- 




Bread Crumbs Buttered 


246 


chloric Acid . . . . 


216 


Bread Panada . . . 


. 127 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



449 



Bread Pudding . 


302 


Caudle 


241 


Cheese Bread Pudding 


304 


Cauliflower 


268 


Chocolate " 


303 


Boiled . . 


268 


Gluten Brown Betty . 


304 


Creamed 


268 


Jelly Bread Pudding . 


303 


Cet,f.ry . .... 


268 


Lemon " 


303 


Boiled . ... 


268 


Orange " 


302 


Creamed . 


268 


Plain " 


302 


Soup . 


224 


Bread Sauce fob Game 


158 


" (Diabetic) 


225 


Breakfast Foods 


242 


Toast . . 


257 


Boiled Rice . 


297 


Cereals 


233 


Cornmeal Mush 


242 


Breakfast Food 


242 


Gum Gluten Breakfast 


Gruels . 


238 


Food 


242 


Starchy Gruels 


244 


Hasty Pudding . 


242 


Charlotte, Orange . 


211 


Hominy . 


243 


Cheese 




Oatmeal Mush . 


243 


Cheese Bread Pudding 


304 


Steamed Rice . 


298 


Wafers . . . 


276 


Broths 


217 


Gluten Biscuit Crisps 


276 


Beef Broth . . 


219 


Gluten Cheese Wafers 


261 


Broth with Grains 


219 


Sandwiches . 


259 


Chicken Broth . 


220 


Chicken 




Clam Broth No. I . 


220 


Broiled Chicken 


156 


« Broth No. 11 


220 


Chicken Broth . . 


220 


Egg Broth (Milk) . . 


118 


Broth Jelly 


222 


" Broth (Hot Water) 


221 


Salad 


274 


" Broth (Beef Broth) 


221 


Creamed Chicken . 


157 


Mutton Broth . 


219 


Jellied 


157 


Veal Broth .... 


220 


Roast 


154 


BUTTEB BaIXS 


255 


Gravy . 


155 


BUTT^B CKEAM 


165 


Stuffing 


154 


Buttermilk (Artificial) . 


199 


Trussing . 


154 


Buttered Crumbs . 


246 


Scalloped Chicken 


157 






To clean Chicken . 


153 






Chocolate (Walter Bak- 




C. 




er's) .... 


477 






Chocolate Blanc Mange . 


301 


Cake 


317 


" Bread Pudding 


303 


Boiled Frosting . . . 


320 


" Custard 


289 


Cold Water Sponge Cake . 


318 


" Ice Cream . 


308 


Ginger- Bread . 


320 


Milk Shake 


135 


Gum Gluten Nut Cake . 


319 


" Sauce for Ice 




Hot Water Sponge Cake . 


319 


Cream 


311 


Marguerite Wafers 


320 


Chocolate Syrup 


136 


Plain Cake 


319 


Vienna Style . 


135 


Sponge Cake .... 


318 


Plain Chocolate 


134 


Carrots .... 


268 


" Chocolate (Ind.) . 


135 


Boiled 


268 


Chops 




Creamed .... 


268 


Chop Broiled in Paper . 


151 



450 



INDEX TO EECIPES 



Prench Chops . 
Lamb Chops Broiled 
Mutton Chops " 
Pan Broiled Chops 

Cinnamon Water . 
Milk . . 

Clams .... 



PAGE 

. 150 
150 
150 
150 
136 
. 197 
172 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Clam Bouillon .... 174 
" Bouillon Bisque . 175 
" Broth .... 173 
'• Broth No. II . . 220 
" Broth on Toast . . 258 
" Frappg .... 315 
" Sherbet . . . .312 
" Soup ... .174 

" Stew 174 

" Water . . . .173 

" Water No. II . . 173 

Little Neck Clams . . 172 

Steamed Clams . . 172 

Cocoa (Waltbb Baker's) . 477 

Breakfast Cocoa . . .133 

Cocoa (Ind) .134 

Cocoa Junket .... 294 

Malted Milk Cocoa . .134 

Codfish 

Creamed Codfish . 

Codfish (Dia- 
betic) 164 

Coffee 

Boiled Cofl'ee .... 

•' Coffee (Ind.) . . 

Cereal Coffee .... 

Coffee Egg-nog ... 

" Ice Cream . 

" Jelly 

" Junket .... 
Filtered Coflfee . . . 
Coffee No. II . 
Malted Milk Coffee . . 
Perculator Coffee. . 
Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 
Condensed Milk (Eagle 
Brand) ... .479 



163 



132 
132 
133 
120 
308 
207 
294 
13? 
133 
133 
131 
207 



Consomme 
Corn Soup 
Cornmeal Gems 
" Mush 



228 
224 
254 
242 



PAGE 

Cornstarch Pudding . . 295 

Cornstarch Fruit Jelly . 295 

" Pudding . . 295 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 296 

Pineapple Cream . . . 295 

Cbaokers 

Baby Educator . . . 501 
Bran Crackers .... 260 
Cheese Wafers . . .276 

Cracker Crumbs (but-' 

tered) 246 

Cracker Gruel . . . 239 

Cracker Panada . . .126 

" Pudding ... 304 

Crisped Crackers . . 229 

Educator Crackers . . 260 

Gluten Cheese Wafers 261 

" Crackers . . 260 

" Biscuit Crisps 261 

Wafers . . . .261 

Marguerite Wafers . '. 320 

Toasted Crackers . . . 256 

Cranberry Jelly . . . 280 

Cranberry Sauce . . . 280 

Cream Sauce 

Cream Sauce (Fish) . . 165 

" (Macaroni) . 245 

" " (Noodles) . 246 

" (Scalloped 

Bishes) 271 

Cream Sauce (Toast) . 257 

" (Vegetables) 271 

Cream op Tartar Drink . 114 

Cream (Whipped) . . 305 

Croutons ... . . 230 

Crumbs (Buttered) . .246 

Crust Coffee . . 126 

Cucumber Relish . . .166 

Currant Water . . 115 

Custards 

Baked Custards . . 288 y 

Custard Junket . . . 294 

Custard Souffle . 292 

Frozen Custard . . .311 

Soft Custards .... 287 > 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



451 



D. 



Orange Bread Pudding 



PAGE 

. 302 



Dandelion Greens . 


. . 269 


Plain " " . . 


302 


Date Bonbons . 


. . 282 


Cornstarch or Blanc 




" Tapioca . . 


. . 301 


Mange ... 


295 


Desserts (Frozen) . 


. . 306 


Cornstarch Fruit Jelly . 


295 


Ice Cream . 


. . 306 


Cornstarch Pudding 


295 


Caramel Ice Cream 


. . 310 


Gum Gluten 


296 


" lee Cream ^ 


ro. II 310 


Irish Moss Blanc Mange . 


297 


Chocolate Ice Cream 


. . 308 


" " Jelly . . 


297 


Coffee 


. . 308 


Malted Milk Blanc Mange 


'296 


Frozen Custard 


. . 3H 


Nutritious Wheat Pudding 


296 


Grape lee Cream 


. . 309 


Pineapple Cream . 


295 


Hot Cocoa Sauce fo 


i- Ice 


Cracker Pudding . 


304 


Cream 


. . 311 


Walnut, Biscuit Crisps 


305 


Junket Ice Cream . 


. 308 


Plain Cracker Pudding . 


304 


Malted Milk Ice Ores 


im . 310 


Custards 




Peach 


309 


Baked Custards . 


288 


Peptonoids " " 


. 311 


Baked Caramel Custal-d . 


290 


Raspberry " " 


. 309 


or Cup 


288 


Strawberry " " 


. 309 


Custard No. II . 


289 


Vahilla 


. 307 


Chocolate Custard 


289 


Ices . ... 


. 313 


Malted Milk " . . 


290 


Clam Frappg . 


. . 315 


Peptonoids " 


290 


Fruit Ice 


. . 314 


White " . . 


289 


Grape Frappg 


. . 315 


Soft Custards . 


287 


Lemon Ice . 


. . 314 


Almond Pudding . 


288 


Orange " 


. 313 


Apple Custard . . . . 


288 


" No. II . 


. 314 


Banana " 


288 


" No. Ill . 


314 


Floating Island 


288 


Orange Straws . 


. 315 


Meringue 


287 


Pineapple Ice 


. 315 


Orange Custard 


288 


Scalpicon of Fruit 


. . 315 


Peach Custard . 


288 


Sherbet . 


. 312 


Soft Custard No. I 


287 


Clam Sherbet . 


. 312 


" Custard No. II 


287 


Grape Ambrosia 


. 313 


" Custard (Diabetic) 


287 


Grape Sherbet . 


. . 313 


Junket 


293 


Lemon Milk Sherbet 


. . 312 


Cocoa Junket . 


294 


n « « 


iSTcII 312 


Coffee " . . 


294 


Malted Milk 


. . 313 


Custard " ' . 


294 


Strawberry " 


. 312 


Plain " 


293 


Strawberry " 


No. II 312 


Junket Ice Cream 


308 


Desserts (Hot and Cold) 286 


Pudding Sauces . . 


305 


Bread Puddings 


. . 302 


Foamy Sauce . 


305 


Cheese Bread Pudding 


Fruit 


306 


(Diabetic) . . 


. . 304 


Hard " . . 


. 305 


Chocolate Bread Pudding 303 


Orange " ... 


. 210 


Gluten Brown Betty 


. . 304 


Whipped Cream . 


305 


Jelly Bread Pudding 


. . 303 


Whipped Cream No. II 


306 


Lemon " 


. . 303 


EioE Puddings , 


297 



452 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Boiled Rice 297 

Cream of Rice Pudding 299 

Peaches and Rice . . . 298 

Plain Rice Budding . . 299 

Rice Meringue .... 299 

Southern Snow Balls . . 298 

Steamed Rice . . 298 

Tapioca Puddings . . . 300 

Apple Tapioca . . . 300 

Chocolate Blano Mange . 301 

Date Tapioca ... 301 

Pineapple Tapioca . . 300 

Plain " . 300 

Raspberry " 301 

Tapioca Cream . 300 

Whips and Souffles . ,291 

Custard Souffle 292 

Eruit .Whip ... 291 

Grape Whip . 291 

Lemon Souffle . . . 292 

Omelet Souffle ... 292 

Peach Meringue 293 

Strawberry Whip . 291 

Dressing foe Poultry . 154 

" Salads . 272 

Dried Fruit Soup . . . 227 

Dry Peptonoids Soluble 492 

Peptonoids Sandwiches . 260 



E. 

Eggs 175 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 
MilK . 122 
Orange . 123 
Sherry . . 123 
Water . 122 

Albumin Water (for In- 
fants) .... 122 
Baked Custard . . 288 
Baked Eggs .... 180 
" Eggs (Diabetic) . 180 
Baked Meat Omelet 182 
Beef Egg-nog . . . .120 
Coddled Eggs (Scrambled) 183 
Coffee Egg-nog . . .120 
Egg Broth (Milk) . . 118 



PACE 

Egg Broth (Water) . .221 
" Broth (Beef) . . 225 
" Lemonade .... 121 

" Nests 181 

" -nog No. I . . . . 119 
" -nog No. II . . .119 
" Sandwiches . . . 183 

" Sauce 165 

" Sauce No. II . . 166 
" and Brandy . . . 120 
" " Rum .... 120 
" Wine .... 120 
" " Sherry Gruel . 241 

Filled Eggs 184 

Golden Rod Egg . . .181 
Grape Juice and Egg . .122 

Grape Yolk 121 

Hard Cooked Egg . . 180 

Junket Egg-nog . 119 

Malted Milk and Egg . 121 

Marguerite Salad . .275 

Mulled Wine . . .122 

Omelet (Bread) . .182 

" (Foamy) . . : 181 

(Meat) . . 182 

Pineapple Egg-nog 122 

Poached or Dropped Egg . 182 

" Egg in Milk . 182 

Shirred Egg . . '. . 183 

" Eggs No. II . .183 

Soft Cooked Egg . . .179 

" No. II . 180 

" Custard . 287 

Steamed Eggs . . .180 

Stokes' Mixture . . .121 

Water Lily Salad . . .276 

Whips and Souffles . 291 

Emulsion (Scott's), . . 493 

F. 

Farina Gruel . . . 239 

Fish .159 

Baked Fish 162 

Baked Fish (Diabetic) 164 
Broiled Fish . . 162 
Creamed Cod Fish . . 163 
Cod Fish (Dia- 
betic) 164 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



455 



PAGE 

Creamed Fish . . . .163 

Fish (Diabetic) 164 

Fish (Diabetic) . . 164 

Halibut a la Creole . . 163 

Scalloped Fish . 163 

Fish Sauces . . . 165 

Butter Cream . . 165 

Cream or White Sauce 165 

Cream Sauce (Diabetic) . 165 

Cucumber Relish . ' .166 

Egg Sauce . . .165 

" Sauce No. II . 166 

Hollandaise Sauce . . . 166 

Tomato Sauce . 166 

Flaxseed Tea .... 136 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 

Floating Island .... 288 

Flour Gkuel or Thickened 

Milk 239 

Flour Ball ... .242 

FRAppf 

Clam Frappg . . .315 

Grape " .... 315 

Frosting ... . 320 

Frozen Custard . . . 311 
Frozen Desserts (See Des- 
serts) ... . 306 

Fruits 276 

Apples — Cuban Style . 280 

Baked . . 279 

" Stewed . . 279 

" and Prunes . 280 

Apricot and Prune Sauce 280 

Baked Banana . . . .280 

Cranberry Sauce or Jelly 280 



Date Bonbons 
Figs, Stewed 
Lemon Baked . 
Orange Baked . 
No. II . 
" Straws . 
" Sunflower . 
Pineapple 
Prunes Stewed . 
Rhubarb Steamed . 
Fruit Ice . . . . 
Fruit Punch 
Fruit Pudding Sauce 
Feuit Salad . 



282 
282 
280 
280 
281 
315 
281 
281 
281 
282 
314 
117 
306 
275 



PAGE 

Fruit Sandwiches . . 259 

I'RUiT Soup . . .227 

Fruit Whip . . .291 

Fruitade ... . . 112 

G. 

Game (Note Poultry) . .152 
Gelatin . 203 

Bavarian Cream . 210 

Coffee Jelly . . .207 

Cream " . ... 207 

Grape Fluff . 211 

Grape Jelly . 206 

Jell-0 212 

Lemon Jelly . . . 206 

Made in a Minute Dessert 212 

Orange Baskets . . . 206 

" Charlotte . .211 

" Jelly . 205 

" Jelly No. II 206 

Panopepton Jelly . . . 208 

Panopepton Jelly with 

Orange ... . 209 

Peach Jelly . ... 207 

Peptonoids Coff'ee Jelly . 207 

" Wine Jelly 205 

Peptonised Milk Jelly . 208 

Snow Pudding . . 209 

" (Ind.) . 209 

Spanish Cream . . .210 

" (Ind.) 210 

Strawberry Moussg . 212 

Wine Jelly . . 204 

" No. II . . 205 



Sauces: Served with Gel- 




atin 




Orange . . . . 
Soft Custard 
Whipped Cream 
Gems 


210 

287 
305 


Cornmeal Gems 
White Gems 
Ginger Bread 
Ginger Tea . 


254 
254 
320 
137 



Grape Juice (Welch's) . 486 
Albuminized Grape Juice 123 
Grape Ambrosia . . ,313 



454 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Grape Frappg 

" Fluff . . 

" Jelly . . 

" Ice Cream . 

" Juice, plain 

" Juice and Egg 

" Lemonade 

" Lithia 

" Nectar 

" Sherbet . . 

" Water . . 

" Whip . . 

" Yolk . . 

Geavy fob Roasts . 



PAGE 

315 
211 
206 
309 
116 
122 
121 
116 
116 
313 
115 
291 
121 
152 

" " Roast Poultry 155 
Grouse, Larded . . . .158 

Gruels 238 

Arrowroot Gruel . . . 238 

Barley Gruel . . . .238 

" with Broth . 238 

" of Jelly . 238 

Browned Flour Gruel . ,. 242 

Caudle "241 

Cracker Gruel . . .239 

Egg and Sherry Gruel . 241 
Farina Gruel ... 239 
Flour Gruel . . . .239 
Flour Ball .... 242 
Gum Gluten Gruel . 240 

Indian Meal Gruel . . 240 
Oatmeal Gruel No. I . . 240 
" No. II .241 
" No. Ill . 241 
Rice or Oat Gruel . . 238 

Rice Jelly . . . . 244 

Tapioca Jelly ... 244 
Gum Gluten — How Pro- 
cured .... 488-497 
Baked Egg . . . . 180 

Biscuit . . . 252 

Crisps . . . 261 

(a) Drop ... .253 

(b) Plain 252 

Bread .... .252 

Breakfast Food . . 242 
Cheese Biscuit Crisps . 229 

Crisps 256 

Cakes (Gluten Nut) . .319 
Fish 164 



PAGE 

Fish, Baked . . .164 

Creamed .... 164 
Creamed Codfish . . .164 

Gruel or Porridge . . 240 

Mufiins 253 

Noodles .... . 246 

Boiled Noodles . . 246 

Noodles Au Gratin . . 246 

" for Soup 246 

White Sauce .... 246 

Puddings 

Brown Betty . . . 304 

Cheese . . . . 304 
Walnuts, Gluten Biscuit 

Crisps . . . . 305 

Plain . . . 304 

Sauces 

Cream . .... 246 

White . . ... 246 

Soups 

Asparagus . .... 224 

Cream of Celery . . . 225 

" Tomato . . 227 

Oyster . . . . 172 

Toast 

French 253 

Wafers 

Cheese .... 261 
Plain . . .261 



Halibut a la Creole . .163 

Ham Broiled . . . . 152 

Hard Sauce . . . 305 

Hasty Pudding . . 242 

Herb Tea ... .137 

HOLLANDAISB SaUCE . . 166 

Hominy Mush . . . 243 

Hot Cocoa Sauce . 311 
Hot and Cold Desserts . 286 

I. 

Ice Cream .... 307 

Caramel Ice Cream . .310 

" No. II 310 

Chocolate Ice Cream . . 308 

Coffee Ice Cream . . . 308 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



455 



FACE 

Frozen Custard . . .311 

Grape Ice Cream . . . 309 
Hot Cocoa Sauce for Ice 

Cream 311 

Junket Ice Cream . . . 308 

Malted Milk Ice Cream . 310 

Peach Ice Cream . . . 309 

Peptonoids Ice Cream . .311 

Raspberry Ice Cream . . 309 

Strawberry Ice Cream . 309 

Vanilla lee Cream . . 307 

Ices .313 

Clam Frappg . .315 

Fruit Ice . . .314 

Grape FrappS . . .315 

Lemon Ice . . .314 

Orange Ice ... 313 

" " No. II . 314 

" " No. Ill . 314 

" Straws . 315 

Pineapple Ice . . . 315 

Sealpicon of Fruits . 315 

Indian Meal Gkuel . . . 240 

Irish Moss 

Blanc Mange . . . 297 

Jelly .... . 297 

Lemonade 112 



Jellies 

Gelatin Jellies . . 203 

Jelly and Ice . . .114 

Meat Jellies . . 221 

Starchy Jellies . . . .244 

Jell-O ... .483 

Jell-0 with Fruit . . .212 
Made in a Minute Dessert 212 

Jelly Bread Pudding . . 303 

Junket Tablets (Han- 



son's) 
Junket 

Cocoa Junket . 
Coffee 
Custard " 
Junket Egg-nog 
Junket Ice Cream 
Plain Junket . 
Whey . . . 



. 480 

294- 

294 

294 

119 

308 

199 

198 



K. 

KUMTSS 

Dr. Brush's Kumyss, 482, 198 
Home-made Kumyss . .198 

L. 



Lamb 

Chops Broiled in Paper 

French Chops . 

Lamb " Broiled . 

Pan Broiled Chops 
Ij:mon Soufele . 
Lemonade 

ApoUinaris Lemonade . 

Bran Lemonade 

Effervescent Lemonade 



Fruit 
Grape 
Irish Moss 
Pineapple 
Soda 
Lemon 



151 
150 
150 
150 
292 

111 
111 
111 
121 
HI 
112 
112 
111 
111 
280 
303 
314 
206 
312 
198 
492 
492 



Baked . 
" Bread Pudding 
" Ice . 
" Jelly . . . 
" Milk Sherbet 
Whey . . 
Liquid Peptonoids 

Dry Peptonoids Soluble 

Dry Peptonoids with Broth 218 

" " Sandwiches 260 

Liquid Peptonoids Cold . 215 

Hot . 215 

" " with Whey 198 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 207 

Custard . 290 

" Ice Cream . 311 

Wine Jelly . 205 

Lettuce Sandwiches 259 

Lime Water . . .137 

Jlf. 

Macaroni ... . . 245 

Baked Macaroni . . 245 



456 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Boiled Macaroni . 
Boiled Noodles . 
Noodles (Diabetic) 
Au Gratin 



PACE 

245 
. 246 
. 246 
. 246 



Sauces and Accessories . 245 

Buttered Cracker Crumbs 246 

Cream or White Sauce . 245 

Sauce (Diabetic) 246 

Tomato Sauce .... 245 

Made in a Minute Dessert 212 

MaItre D'Hotel Butter . 149 

Malted Milk (Hoklick's) 487 

Malted Milk . . . 194 

" Blanc Mange 296 

" Cocoa . 134 

" Coffee . . 133 

" Custard . . 290 

" " Ice Cream . 310 

" Plain . . 194 

" Sherbet . . 313 

" " and Currant 

Jelly 114 

Malted Milk and Egg . 121 
" with Tamarind 116 
" with Wine . 114 



Matzoon . 


199 


Meat . . . 


140 


Broiled Bacon 


. 151 


Curled 


151 


Broiled Ham . 


. . 152 


Broiled Steak 


149 


Chops or Birds Broiled in 


Paper . 


151 


Lamb Chops Broiled . 150 


French Chops . 


. . 150 


Mutton Chops Broiled . 150 


Pan Broiled Beef Cakes 149 


Pan Broiled Chops 


. . 150 


Roast Meats 


152 


Gravy . 


. 152 


Scraped Beef . 


217 


M^AT Jellies 


221 


Beef Jelly . . 


. 222 


Calf's Foot Jelly 


221 


Chicken Jelly . 


222 


Panopepton Jelly 


. . 208 



PAGE 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 209 

" Wine Jelly . 205 

Meat Soups (See Beoths) 217 

287 
299 
184 
122 
194 
197 
199 
197 



Meringue 

Rice Meringue .... 
Milk .... 
Albuminized Milk 
Baked Milk .... 
Brandy and Milk 
Buttermilk (Artificial) 
Cinnamon and Milk . 
Condensed Milk (Eagle 

Brand) ... 
Evaporated Milk 
Junket .... 
Kumyss .... 
Milk Toast . . . 
Malted Milk . . . 
Matzoon or Zoolak . 
Modified Milk . . 
Pasteurization . 
Peptonised Milk 

Effervescent 

By the Cold Process 
" " Warm Process 

Immediate Process '. 

Partially Peptonised 

Specially " 

Rice Milk .... 
Rum and Milk . 
Sherbets 

Sherry and Milk . 
Sterilization 
Thickened Milk . . 
Whey .... 

Acid Phosphate . 

Lemon 

Liquid Peptonoids with 
Whey 



479 
194 
199 
198 
257 
194 
199 
192 
193 
195 
196 
195 
195 
196 
195 
196 
197 
197 
312 
197 
194 
239 
198 
113 
113 

198 



Panopepton with Whey 198 



with 



Orange 



209 



Wine Whey 
Minute Tapioca 
Miscellaneous 
Cereal Coft'ee . 
Cocoa (Ind. ) 
Breakfast Cocoa . 
Malted Milk Cocoa 



113 

. 484 

Beverages 127 

. . . 133 

. 134 

133 

134 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



457 



PAGE 

Coffee 132 

Boiled Coffee ... 132 
" (Ind.) . . 132 
Filtered " ... 132 
" No. II . 133 
Malted Milk Coffee . 133 
Perculator Coffee . .131 
Chocolate ... 134 
Milk Shake . 135 
Syrup . 136 
Vienna Style 135 
" Plain . . 134 
" (Ind) . . 135 
Special Non-Nutritive Bev- 
erages . . 136 
Bran Tea . . 137 
Cinnamon Water 136 
Flaxseed Tea . . .136 
Ginger Tea . 137 
Herb Tea . . 137 
Lime Water ... 137 
Slippery Elm Tea 137 
Tea ... . 131 
Russian Tea . . 131 
Mock Bisque Soup . 227 
Moussf, Steawbebbt . 212 
Muffins 

Bran MufiSns . . . 254 

Gum Gluten Muffins . . 253 
Mulled Wine .... 122 
Mush (See Breakfast 

Food) 242 

Mutton Broth . . .219 

Mutton Chops Broiled . 150 



N. 

Noodles (Diabetic) . . 246 

Au Gratin . . 246 

Boiled .... 246 

Non-Nutritious Beverages 136 

Bran Tea 137 

Cinnamon Water . . 136 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 

Flaxseed Tea . . 136 

Ginger Tea . . . 137 

Herb Tea ... . 137 

Lime Water ... 137 



PAGE 

Slippery Elm Tea . . .137 
Nutritious Desserts . . 285 
Nutritious Wheat Pud- 
ding . . 296 
Nuts .... . 283 

0. 



Oatmeal 

Caudle .... 
Oat or Rice Gruel 
Oatmeal Gruel . 

" No. II 
" No. Ill 
Mush . . 
Water 

" No. II 
Olive Oil (Nioelle) 
Salads 

Salad Dressings 
Onions 

Boiled . . . , 

Creamed 
Scalloped 
Soup ... 
Omelet 

Baked Meat Omelet 
Bread Omelet 
Foamy Omelet . 
Meat Omelet . 
Omelet Souffle . . 
Oranges 

Albuminized Orange 
Baked Orange . 
Orange Baskets 

" Bread Pudding 
" Charlotte . 
" Custard 
" Ice . . . 
" No. II 
" No. Ill 
" Jelly No. I 
" No. II 
" Plain . . 
" Sauce . 
" Straws 
" SunfloYi^er 
Orangeade . 



241 
238 
240 
241 
241 
243 
125 
126 
489 
272 
273 

269 
269 
269 
225 

182 
182 
181 
182 
292 

123 
280 
206 
302 
211 
288 
313 
314 
314 
205 
206 
281 
210 
315 
281 
112 



458 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Otstebs 166 

Broiled 170 

Creamed .... 170 

Creamed No. II . . .170 
Pan Roasted .... 170 

Raw 169 

Roasted in the Shell . . 169 
Scalloped . .171 

Soup 171 

Soup (Diabetic) . . 172 

Stew . . . 172 

To Wash Oysters . . .169 



P. 

Panada (Crackeb) . . 126 

(Bread) . . .127 

Pan Broiled Beef Cakes 149 

Panopepton 485 

lee Panopepton . . .216 

Panopepton Bouillon Hot 228 

" Hot . . 216 

Jelly . . .208 

" Jelly with 

Orange 209 

Panopepton with Whey . 198 

Pasteubization .... 193 

Pasteurizer (Hygeia) . 194 

Paesley Butteb .... 267 

Peas Gbeen . ... 269 

" Canned . . . .270 

" Creamed No. 1 . . 270 

" No. II . 270 

Peach Ice Ckeam . . . 309 

" Jelly 207 

" Meringue . . .293 
and Rice . . . .298 
Peptonising Tubes ( Faib- 

ciiiLD Bros. & Fosteb) 485 

Peptonised Milk . . . 195 

Effervescent . . . .196 

By the Cold Process . 195 

" " Warm Process . 195 

Immediate Process . . 196 

Partially Peptonised . . 195 

Specially " . . 196 

Peptonoids (Liquid) . . 492 

Dry Peptonoids Soluble . 492 



Dry Peptonoids with Broth 218 

" " Sandwiches 260 

Liquid " Cold . 215 

" Hot . . 215 

" with Whey 198 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 

" Custard . . .290 

" Ice Cream . 311 

" Wine Jelly . . 205 

Phosphate (Horsford's) . 478 

Acid Phosphate . 113 

Whey . .113 

Pineapple (Hawaiian) . 495 

Pineapple Cream . . . 295 

Egg-nog . . 120 

Ice . . 315 

Juice . . .113 

" Lemonade . .111 

Tapioca . . 300 

pop-ovees .... 254 

Potatoes . . . 265 

Baked . . . 266 

Boiled 265 

Creamed . 267 

Mashed . . 265 

Potatoes Au Gratin . 267 

Potato Balls . . . .267 
Cakes 266 

" in Half Shell . 266 
Rieed Potatoes . 265 

Surprise Balls 266 

Poultry 152 

Birds Broiled in Paper . 151 

Breaded Sauce for Game . 158 

Broiled Chicken . . 156 

Quail . . 156 

Small Birds 156 

" Squabs . . .156 

Creamed Chicken . . . 157 

Dry Dressing for Stuffing 154 

General Rule for Cleaning 

~ "■ 153 

155 

157 

158 

158 

154 

154 

155 



Poultry 
Gravy for Uoast Poultry 
Jellied Chicken 
Larded Grouse . 
" Quail . 
Roast Poultry 
Dry Dressing . 
Gravy 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



459 



To Bone Birds . 

To Clean Poultry 

To Truss 

Scalloped Chicken 
Prunes Stewed 
Pudding Sauces 

Foamy Sauce 

Fruit 

Hard 

Orange " 

Whipped Cream 

" No. II 
Punch 

Fruit Punch 

Tea 

Tutti Frutti Punch 



0- 

Quail 

Broiled 

Broiled in Paper . 
Breaded Sauce for Game 
Larded Quail . 



PAGE 

155 
153 
154 
157 
281 
305 
305 
306 
305 
210 
305 
306 

117 
116 
117 



EuM AND Milk 



S. 



PAGE 

197 



156 
156 
158 
158 



R. 

Easpbeert Ice Cream . . 309 

Tapioca . . .301 

Khubakb Steamed . ^82 

Water ... 115 

KlCE 

Boiled Rice 297 

Cream of Rice Pudding 299 
Peaches and Rice . . 298 

Plain Rice Pudding . . 299 

Rice Gruel 238 

" Jelly . . .244 

" Meringue . . 299 

" Milk 197 

" Water .... 125 

" Nq. II . . 125 

Southern Snow Balls . . 298 

Steamed Rice . . . .298 

Roasts of Meats . . . 152 



Salads 

Chicken Salad . 

Filled Eggs 

Fruit Salad . 

Marguerite Salad 

Mixed 

Sweetbread 

Tomato 

Waldorf 

Water Lily 
Salad Accompaniments 

Cheese Gluten Biscuit 
Crisps 

Cheese Wafers . 
Salad Dkess'ings 

Boiled Dressing 

Cream Dressing 

French " 

Mayonnaise . 
Sardine Sandwiches 
Sauces for 

Ice Creani (Hot Cocoa) 



272 
274 
184 
275 
275 
275 
275 
275 
275 
276 
276 

276 
276 
272 
273 
274 
273 
273 
260 

311 



Macaroni and Noodles 245-246 



Meat 

Scalloped Dishes . 

Fish . . . 

Pudding .... 

Vegetable 
Sandwiches 

Boston Brown Bread 

Bread and Butter . 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Chicken 

'Egg " 

Fruit " 

Lettuce " 

Nut ■ 

Peptonoids " 

Raw Beef " 

Sardine " 

ScALPicoN of Fruits 
Scraped Beef 
Shell-Fish . 

Oysters . 
Broiled 



149 
271 
165 
305 
271 
258 
259 
259 
259 
259 
183 
259 
259 
259 
260 
217 
260 
315 
217 
166 
166 
170 



460 



INDEX TO RECIPES 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Creamed 


. . 170 


Soft Custard (Diabetic) . 


287 


Creamed No. 11 . 


. . 170 


Souffles ob Whips . . . 


291 


Pan Roasted . 


. . 170 


Soups 


223 


Raw . . . 


. . 169 


Asparagus Soup (Cream) 


223 


Roasted in the Shel 


I . 169 


Soup (Diabetic) 


224 


Scalloped . 


. 171 


Clam Bouillon . . . . 


174 


Soup .... 


. 171 


" Bouillon Bisque 


175 


Soup (Diabetic) 


. 172 


" Soup 


174 


Stew .... 


. 172 


Consomme 


228 


To Wash Oysters 


. 169 


Cream of Asparagus . 


223 


Clams 


172 


" Celery . . . 


224 


Albuminized Clam Water 123 


" Celery (Dia- 




Clam Bouillon 


. 174 


betic) . . . . . 


225 


" Bouillon Bisque 


. 175 


Cream of Corn 


224 


" Broth . . 


. 173 


" Onion . . . 


223 


" Broth No. 11 


. 220 


" Pea . 


225 


" Broth on Toast 


. 258 


" " Potatoes . . 


226 


" Frappg 


. 315 


" Rice . . . 


226 


" Sherbet 


. 312 


" Tomato Soup 




" Soup . 


. 174 


(Diabetic) . . . . 


227 


" Stew 


. 174 


Dried Fruit Soup . 


227 


" Water . . 


. 173 


Meat Soup . . . . 


217 


" No. 11 


. 173 


Mock Bisque Soup 


227 


Little Neck Clams 


. 172 


Onion Soup (Diabetic) . 


226 


Steamed Clams 


. 172 


Oyster Soup 


171 


Sherbet 




" (Diabetic) . 


172 


Clam Sherbet . . 


. 312 


" Stew . . . . 


172 


Grape Ambrosia . 


. 313 


Panopepton Bouillon 


228 


Grape Sherbet 


. 313 


Tomato Soup with Broth 


226 


Lemon Milk Sherbet 


. 312 


Victoria Soup . . . . 


228 


" No 


. 11 312 


Soup Accompaniments . 


229 


Malted Milk Sherbet 


. 313 


Crisped Crackers 


229 


Strawberry Sherbet 


. 312 


(5ro11tons . . . . 


230 


" No 


. n 312 


Educator Crackers 


230 


Sherry (Albuminized) 


. 123 


Gum Gluten Crisps 


256 


Sherry and Milk . 


. 197 


" " Biscuit Crisps 


220 


Slippery Elm Tea . 


137 


" Noodles 


230 


Sippets . ... 


. 256 


Toasted Crackers ' . 


229 


Soda Lemonade . 


. Ill 


Sponge Cake . . .318 


-319 


Soft Custard 


. 287 


Special Non-Nutbitive Bev- 




Almond Pudding 


■ . 288 


erages 


136 


Apple Custard . 


. 28S 


Bran Tea . , . 


137 


Banana Custard 


. 288 


Cinnamon Water . 


136 


Floating Island 


. 288 


Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 


136 


Meringue 


. 287 


Tea . . 


136 


Orange Custard 


. 288 


Ginger Tea . . . . 


137 


Peach Custard . 


. 288 


Herb Tea . . . 


137 


Soft Custard No. I 


. 287 


Lime Water . . . . 


137 


No. 11 


. 287 


Slippery Elm Tea . . 


137 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



461 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Spinach 


. 269 


Date Tapioca .... 


301 


Squabs, Bkoiled . 


. 156 


Pineapple Tapioca . 


300 


String Beans . . . 


. 270 


Plain Tapioca 


30O 


Starchy Beverages 


124 


Raspberry Tapioca 


301 


Barley Water 


. 124 


Tapioca Cream . 


300 


" for Infants 


125 


Tapioca Jelly .... 


244 


Bread Panada . 


. 127 


Tea 




Cracker Panada 


126 


Bran Tea 


137 


Crust Coffee 


. 126 


Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 


Oatmeal Water 


125 


Tea ... . 


136 


" No. II 


. 126 


Ginger Tea . 


137 


Eice Water . 


125 


Herb Tea 


137 


" No. II . 


125 


Russian Tea 


131 


Toast Water . . 


126 


Slippery Elm Tea 


137 


Stabchy Jeulies 


244 


Tea 


131 


Barley Jelly 


244 


Tea Punch ... 


116 


Cornstareh Jellies . 


. 295 


Toast .... 


255 


Eiee Jelly . . 


244 


Celery Toast . . 


257 


Tapioca Jelly . 


244 


Clam Broth Toast . 


258 


Steak (See Beef) . 


. 149 


Cream Toast . 


257 


Sterilization of Milk 


. 194 


" No. II . . 


257 


Sterilizer (Hygeia) 


. 194 


Crisps (Gum Gluten) 


256 


Steamed Clams . 


172 


Crotitons .... 


230 


Stew, Oyster . . 


172 


Fren'ch Toast (Diabetic) . 


258 


Stokes' Mixture 


. 121 


Gum Gluten Crisps . 


256 


Strawberry Ice Cream 


. 309 


" Biscuit Crisp 


i 261 


" Mouasg , 


. 212 


Milk Toast . 


257 


Whip . 


291 


Sippets .... 


256 


Sugar of Milk (Patch's) 


499 


Toast Crackers 


256 


SuGAJj Stbup . 


. 110 


" Sticks . . . 


256 


Sweet Breads 


200 


" Water . 


126 


Broiled . . . 


201 


Water Toast .... 


256 


Creamed 


201 


Tomato Sauce for Fish . 


166 


No. II . 


202 


(For Maca- 




Fricasseed 


. 202 


roni and Noodles) . 


245 


Parboiled Sweet Bread 


, 201 


Tomatoes 




Salad 


. 275 


Baked 


270 


Sweet Breads with Peas , 


, 202 


Mock Bisque Soup 


227 


SWEETINA 


488 


Scalloped 


271 


Sypup (Sugar) . . 


110 


Stewed ... 


270 






Salad 


275 






' Soup with Broth 


226 


T. 




Turkey (See Poultry) 


152 






Tdtti Frutti Punch . . 


117 


Tamarind Water 


. 115 






Malted Milk 


, 116 






Tapioca (Minute) . . . 


484 


V. 




Apple Tapioca . 


300 






Chocolate Blanc Mange 


301 


Vanilla Ice Cream 


307 



462 



INDEX TO RECIPES 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Veal Broth .... 


. 220 


Victoria Soup . 


. 228 


Vegetables .... 


. 261 






Asparagus on Toast . 


. 208 


W. 




Boiled .... 


. 207 






Creamed .... 


. 268 


Wafers 




Beet Greens 


209 


Cheese Wafers . . 


. 276 


Carrots . . . . 


. 268 


Gluten Cheese Wafers 


. 261 


Boiled . . . 


. 268 


Marguerite Wafers 


. 320 


Creamed 


. 268 


Water (Albuminized) 


. 122 


Cauliflower . 


. 268 


Whey 




Boiled 


. 268 


Acid Phosphate 


. 113 


Creamed 


. 268 


Lemon .... 


. 113 


Celery 


. 268 


Liquid Peptonoids with 


Boiled . . . 


. 268 


Whey . . 


198 


Creamed 


. 268 


Panopepton with Whey . 198 


Dandelion Greens 


. 269 


Wine Whey 


113 


Onions . 


. 269 


Whipped Cream . 


. 305 


Boiled . . 


. 269 


Whips and Souffles 


. 291 


Creamed 


. 269 


Custard Souffle . . 


. 292 


Scalloped . 


. 269 


Fruit Whip . . . 


. 291 


Peas, Green 


. 269 


Grape Whip 


. 291 


" Canned 


. 270 


Lemon Souffle . 


292 


" Creamed No. I . . 


270 


Omelet Souffle . . 


.292 


No. 11 


. 270 


Peach Meringue 


. 293 


Potatoes 


. 265 


Strawberry Whip . 


. 291 


Baked . . 


. 266 


White Sauce for 




Boiled . . . 


. 265 


Fish 


. 165 


Creamed .... 


. 267 


Macaroni 


. 245 


Mashed 


. 265 


Noodles 


. 246 


Potato Au Gratin . 


. 267 


Scalloped Dishes . 


. 271 


Balls . 


. 267 


Vegetables . 


. 271 


Cakes . . . 


. 266 


Wine Jelly No. I 


. 204 


Half Shell . 


266 


" No. 11 . 


. 205 


Riced Potatoes 


. 265 


(Mulled) . . 


. 122 


Surprise Balls 


. 266 


" Whey . 


. 113 


Spinach . 


. 269 






String Beans . 


. 270 






Tomatoes 


270 


Y. 




Baked . 

Scalloped . 

Stewed . . . . 


. 270 
. 271 
. 270 


Yeast 

Fleischmann's Yeast . 


. 249 
490 


Vegetable Sauces . 


271 






Cream or White Sauce 


. 271 


Z. 




" Sauce No. II . 


. 271 






Parsley Butter . 


. 267 


ZOOLAK .... 


. 199 



GENERAL INDEX 



Systematic Shampooing 

WITH 

PACKER'S 
TAR SOAP 

(PINE-TAR, GLYCERINE. VEGETABLE OILS) 

CONTROLS DANDRUFF 

by removing dead scales, freeing the pores and 
substantially increasing the resisting power of 
the scalp tissues. 

IMPARTS VITALITY TO THE HAIR 

by the foregoing and — by bringing more blood, 
to the scalp, thus increasing its nutrition. 

PREVENTS PREMATURE BALDNESS 

by all the foregoing and — by loosening the 
scalp, ventilating the hair roots and establish- 
ing hygienic conditions. 

Systematic care of the hair and scalp fully 
described in our booklets. Free on request. 



THE PACKER MFG. CO., Suite 86 B, 81 Fulton St., New Yoric 

464 



GENERAL INDEX 



A. 

Absorption 46 

" of Carbohydrates 48 

of Fats ... 48 

" of Mineral Matter 49 

" of Protein . . 47 

of Water ... 49 

Absorption, Summary of . 49 

Acid, Hydrochloric . . 30, 37 



PAGE 

Appetite of the Sick . . 75 

Appetizers (See under Bev- 
erages ) . 

Apples .... . . 278 

Asparagus . . . 265 
Assimilation . 50 

B. 



Acidosis, Dietetic Treatment 357 
Acid Phosphate . .113 

Acids, Fatty ... .20 

Acids, Vegetable . . . . 31 

Salts of 31 

Adolescent, Diet of . . 442 
Aged, Diet for . . . 443 
Albumin, Cooking of . 11 
" Effects of Heat on 178 
Albuminoids . . 8-10-140 
Albumins . . . . . 9-10 
Albuminuria, Diet in . , 394 
Alcohol, in Pneumonia . . 349 
Use of in Sick Room 83 
" Value of in Tuber- 
culosis 352 

Alcoholics as Beverages . . 35 

AIg» 284 

Amino Acids 39 

Amylopsin 45 

Anabolism . ... 50 

Animal Food (See Protein, 

Meats, Eggs, Milk, Etc.). 
Antiseptics in Food Preser- 
vation 95 

Appendicitis, Diet in . . 389 
Appetite (See under Diges- 
tion). 

465 



Baby's Stomach, Capacity of 409 

Beans ( See Legumes ) . 

Beating in Cookery ... 90 

Beef 144 

" Cuts of 146 

" Drippings .... 20 
" Extracts . . . .214 

" Juice 212 

" " Absorption of . .213 
" " Care in Serving . 213 
" " Composition of .212 

Beef Juice, Substitutes for . 213 
" " vs. Beef Tea . . 213 
" Preparations . . 212 

" Principles of Cooking . 213 

" Raw 214 

"Tea 213 

" " Composition of . 213 
" " Nutritive Value of 214 
" " vs. Beef Juice . . 213 
. 218 
. 144 
. 264 
35, 109 
110 



" vs. Broth . 
Tests for Good . 



Beets 
Beverages 



Acid . 

'' Sweetening of 110 
Albuminous . .118 
as Appetizers . 35 



466 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Beverages, Miscellaneous . 127 
" Nutritive ... 35 
Sapid .... 35 
" Stimulating . . 35 
Thirst Quenching 35 
" Special Non-Nu- 
tritive 136 

Beverages, Starchy . . 124 

Digestion of . . .124 

Principles of Cooking . . 124 

Bile ....... 38 

Biliousness, Diet in . . . 395 
Body, Composition of . . 4 
" Energy Requirements 

of 60 

Bottle Feeding . . . .410 

Bread, Composition of . . 247 

" Digestibility of . . 247 

Energy Value of . 256 

" Fermented . . .249 

Gluten . . . .248 

Making of . . . 249 

" Nutritive Value of . 247 

" Puddings . . . .302 

Toasted . . . 255 

" Unfermented . . 250 

Breakfast Foods . . 235, 242 

Breast Feeding .... 406 

Bright's Disease, Acute, Diet 

Bright's Disease, Chronic, 

Diet in 391 

Bromelin . .... 278 

Broncho-Pneumonia, Diet in 350 

Broth 217 

" Composition of . .217 
" Energy Value of . . 218 
" Principles of Cooking 217 
" vs. Beef Tea . . . 218 

Butter 189 

Butterine 20 

Buttermilk^ . . . . 190 



C. 

Cabbage 265 

Cake 317 

" General Directions for 
. Making 317 



PAGE 

Calcium Phosphate ... 29 

Calories 57 

Calorimeter 57 

Cane Sugar 14 

" " Description of . 14 

" Food, Uses of . 14 

" Sources of . 14 

Carbohydrates .... 12 

" Absorption of 48 

" Classifications 

of . . .13 
Definition of . 12 
" Digestion of 40 

" Function of 12 

" of Animal Food 138 
" Source of . 12 

Carbonates . ... 30 

Carrots .264 

Casein . . . . 9, 185 

Caulifiower .... 265 
Celery . . . .265 

Cellulose .... 17, 235 
Centigrade Scale, Change to 

Fahrenheit . . . .106 
Cereal Breakfast Foods . 235 

Cereals 233 

" Care of . .237 

" Composition of 234 

" Digestibility of . 236 
Nutritive Value of . 237 
" Principles of Cook- 
ing ... . . 235 

Cheese 189 

Chicken, How to Select 153 

Children, Feeding Sick . . 438 

Chlorides 29 

Chocolate .... .129 
" Compared with Tea 
and Coffee . . . .130 
Chocolate, Nutritive Value of 130 
"' Principles of Cook- 
ing of 130 

Chocolate, Source of . . .129 

Cinnamon 34 

Clams 168 

" Varieties of . . . 168 
Cloves .... . . 34 

Cocoa 129 

Codliver Oil 20 



GENERAL INDEX 



46r 



PAGE 

Coffee 128 

" Effects of . . . 128 

" Sources of . . . .128 

Colic, Dietetic Treatment of, 

in Children . . 438 

Collagen ... 10, 140 

Condiments . . .33 

Classification of . . .33 
Constipation, Diet in . 382 

" in Nurslings, 

Treatment of . .441 

Consumption (See Tubercu- 
losis ) . 
Convalescence, Diet in . . 332 
Cooking, Blending Ingredi- 
ents in . . . 90 
Cooking, Methods of . . 88 
" Objective Points in 88 
" Principles of . . 89 
" Processes, Objects of 89 
" Processes, Principal 89 
" Success in . . .88 
" Suggestions in 
Method of Working in . 90 
Crackers ...... 260 

Cream . . . 185, 189 

Curds ... .190 

Cutting in Cookery ... 90 



Dessert, Frozen . . . 306 

Desserts, Nutritious . . . 286 

Dextrin .... .40 

Dextrose ... .13 

" Description of . . 13 

Food Uses of . . 14 

" Sources of . . .14 

Diabetes, Diet in . . . 355 

eWomc, Diet of . -^58 

Diabetic Chart (Joslin and 

Goodall) ... .359 

Diabetic Diet of Bellevue 

Hospital 356 

Diabetic Diet of Massachu- 
setts General Hospital . 357 
Diabetic Diet of Presbyterian 

Hospital, N. Y. . . . 357 
Diarrhoea, Diet in . . . 385 



Diet, after Laparotomy, etc. 399 
" Animal, Disadvantages 

of Exclusive . . IS* 

Diet, Bellevue Hospital . 328 

" Broth 327 

" Convalescent . . . 323. 
" Diabetic, of Bellevue / 
Hospital . . 35S' 

Diet, Diabetic, of Massachu- 
setts Hospital . . 357 
Diet, Enteric .... 38& 
" Extra, for Typhoid, in 
Presbyterian Hospital, 

N. Y 341 

Diet, Farinaceous . 324-5 

" Fat Free . . . .326- 

" Fish 327 

" High Caloric, in Ty- 
phoid . . . . 336 
Diet, Hospital, General Type 

of . . . 323 

Diet, Hospital Extra . . 327 
Diet, Ideal .... 233 
" in Acute Bright's Dis- 
ease . . . 390 
Diet in Acute Gastritis . 373 
" in Acute Gout . 367 
" in A c u t e Nephritis, 
Mass. Gen'l Hosp. 392 
Diet in Acute Rheumatism. 368 
" in Adolescence . . . 442 
" in Appendicitis . 389 
" in Albuminuria . 394 
" in Biliousness . . . 395 
" in Broncho- Pneumonia 350 
" in Chronic Diabetes 358 
" in Chroni(r Gastritis . 373 
" in Chronic Gout -^ 368 
" in Constipation . ~. 382 
" in Convalescence from 

Fever . . . 332 

Diet in Convalescence from 

Typhoid . . 339 

Diet in Diarrhoea . . 385 

" in Diphtheria . 347 

" in Disease ... 331 

" in Diseases of the Gen- 

ito Urinary System . 390 



468 



GENERAL INDEX 



Diet in Disorders of Nutri- 
tion .... . 355 
Diet in Dysentery . . 386-387 
" in Dyspepsia. - - . .381 
" in Fevers . . 331 
" in Gastric Diseases . 373 
" in Heart Disease . 396 
" in Infectious Diseases . 331 
" in Intestinal Diseases . 381 
" in Lithemia . 367 
^' in Lying-in Period 403 
" in Mumps .... 350 
^' in Nervous Disorders 395 
" in Obesity ... 370 
" in Old Age . 443 
" in Oxaluria . . 325 
" in Pneumonia 348 
" in Pregnancy . 401 
^' in Quinsy . . .346 
^' in Skin Diseases 396 
" in Surgical Cases . . 397 
■" in the Sedentary 443 
" in Tonsilitis . . .346 
" in Tuberculosis (e s p e- 
cially Pulmonary Con- 
sumption) 351 
Diet in Typhoid, Late Con- 
val eseent ( Presbyterian 
Hospital, N. Y.) . . 341 
Diet in Typhoid, Summary of 337 
" in Ulcer of the Stomach 376 
" in Vomiting of Preg- 
nancy ... . 402 
" in Whooping Cough . 351 
Diet, Liberal, in Typhoid 

Fever . . 336, 341 

Diet, Light ... . 323^ 

" Liquid Enteric . . 388 
" Liquid, in Typhoid 335, 337 
" Meat, Exclusive . 51 

" Milk . 324 

" Mixed . . . 7 

■" Nephritic ... 392 
" Nitrogenous . . . 325 

" Nutrient 325 

" of Nursing Mother 404 

" of Wet Nurse . . 404 
Diets, Presbyterian Hospital, 

N. Y 329 



PAGE 

Diet, Restricted . 328 

" Salt-free 393 

" Schmidt 327 

" Special Enteric . . .388 
" Starvation, in Typhoid 334 
" Vegetable vs. Animal . 233 
" Strictly Sugar-free . 357 

" Test 326 

Dietaries for Young Chil- 
dren . 43G 
Dietaries, Hospital . . 323 
Digestion . . . 36 
" Evidences of in 

Sick 74 

Digestion of Fat . 40 

" of Protein, Prod- 

ucts of . . . .37, 39 
Digestion of Protein, Sum- 
mary of . . . 39 
Digestion of Proteins 36 
" of Proteins in In- 
testines . . 38 
Digestion of Proteins in 

Stomach . . 36 

Digestion of Starch . 40 

Products of . . 41 

Summary of . . 41 

Digestion of Sugars . . 42 

Products of . . . 42 

Summary of . . 42 

Digestion, Salivary . . 41 

" Rate of 45 

Resume of . 43 

Diphtheria, Diet in . . 347 

Disease, Acute, Feeding in 73 

Diet in . . 331 

Disinfection of Utensils . 84 

Drinks, Cold . . 109 

Drinks, Hot ... . 109 

Dysentery (Acute Colitis), 

Diet in . . . 387 

Dyspepsia, Diet in . . 381 



E. 



Eggs 



Composition of . 
Cooking of . 



. 175 
. 175 
11-12 



GENERAL INDEX 



4:69 



PAGE 

Eggs, Digestibility of . .176 
Energy Value of 118, 179 
Nutritive Value of . . 177 
Principles for Cooking 178 
Suggestions Concerning 178 
Test for Fresh . . 178 

Varieties of . . 176 

Enteric Diet . . .388 

Equivalents, Table of Metric 101 
Erepsin . . 39 

Excretion . ... 53 

Extractives, Nitrogenous 11, 138 

144 
Extracts, Flavoring . 34 

F. 

Fahrenheit Scale, Change to 

Centigrade . 106 

Fat 19 

" Absorption of . . 48 
" Animal . . 138 
" Cheap Forms of . 21 
" Definition of . . . 19 
" Description of . . 20 
" Digestibility of . 22 
" Digestion of . 40 
" Function of . . . 21 
" Percentages in Cream, 
Table Showing . . 426 
Fat, Principles of Cooking . 22 
" Sources of . . 21 
" Tests for . . 23 
" vs. Carbohydrate as 
Food ... . 23 
Fat, Value of in Tuberculosis 352 
Feeding, Details of . . .76 
" Forced .... 78 
" in Acute Disease . 73 
Feeding, Infant . . 406 
Artificial . 406 
" Breast . . . .406 
" Hygiene of Natural 408 
Feeding, Nasal .... 79 
Feeding of Young Children . 434 
" of Young Children, 
General Rules for . . 435 
Rectal . . . 79 
■ " the Helpless Pa- 
tient ; 78 



PAGE' 

72; 



72. 
77 
77 

78. 

78 

331 



10' 
278 
159 
160 
159 
16L 
160' 



Feeding the Sick 

the Sick, Physi- 
cians' Directions for 
Feeding the Sick, Position in 
" the Sick, Time for 
" the Unconscious Pa- 
tient 

Feeding and Sleep 
Fever, Diet in 

" Typhoid (See Typhoid 

Fever). 

Fibrin . . . 

Figs 

Fish 

" Composition of 

" Digestibility of 

" Energy Value of . 

" Nutritive Value of 

" Principles of Cooking 161 

" Salt . . 160 

" Sauces . . .165 

" Season for .... 161 

" Test for Freshness of 161 

Fletcher, Mr., on Mastication 41 

Folding In, in Cookery 90 

Food Accessories . . 4, 33 

" Adjuncts . . 4, 33 

" Adulteration of . . 91 

" Animal 138 

" Animal, Carbohydrates 

of 

Food, Animal, Composition 

of .... 

Food, Animal, Digestibility 

of 

Food, Extractives of 

" Mineral Matter of . 
" Animal, Proteins 
" Animal, Water of 
" Care of .... 
" Care of, in Markets 
and Kitchens . 
Food, Classification of 5, 
" Composition of 
" Concentration of . 
" Definition of . . . 
" Effects of Heat on . 
" Determination of Energy 
Value of .... 5& 



138 

138 

139 
138 
139 
133- 
139 
92 

92 
6 
4 

95 

4 
88 



470 



GENERAL INDEX 



anti- 



Pood, Fly Pollution of . 
" How to Serve . 
" Methods of Cooking 
" Liquid (Fluid) . 
" Nitrogenous 

Classification of 
Source of . 
JTood, Non-Nitrogenous 
" Object of . . . 
" Predigestion of 
" Preservation 
" Preservation by 
septics . 
Tood Preservation by D r y- 

ing . . . 
rood Preservation by Exclu 

sion of Air 
Tood Preservation by Freez- 
ing . . 
Tood, Quantity and Quality 

of, for Sick 
Food, Soft (Semi-Solid) 
" Solid . . 
" Source of . 
" Storage of . 
" Temperature of, for 
Sick 
Tood Values 



95 
95 

76 

323 

323 

i 

93 

76 
54 
Values, Tabulation of 64-71 



Carbohy- 



PACE 

94 

86 

88 

323 

8 

8 

9 

12 

3 

96 

95 

95 



231 



232 

31 

232 
232 



Vegetable 
" Vegetable, 
drates of 
Tood, Vegetable Composition 

of . . 
Tood, Vegetable, Digestibil- 
ity of . . 
Food, Vegetable, Fats of 
" Vegetable, Mineral 

Matter of . . . .232 
Tood, Vegetable, Protein of . 232 
" Vegetable, Water of . 232 
" Washing of Uncooked 93 
TormuliE for Infant Feeding 416 
Fowl, How to Select . 133 
Freezing, General Hules for 307 
" in Small Amounts 307 

Fruits 276 

as Ballast . . .279 
" Composition of . . 276 



PAGE 

Fruits, Digestibility of . . 277 

" Dried 279 

" Flavoring Principle of 277 
" (Fresh) and Vegeta- 
bles, Agreement between 278 

Fruits, Fuel Value of . . 278 
" Nutritive Value of . 278 
" Precautions in Use of 279 
" Sugar-content of '. . 277 

Fungi .... . . 284 

Gf. 

Galactose 42 

Game (See Poultry). 

Gastric Juice ... .37 

Gastritis, Acute, Diet in . 373 

" Chronic, Diet in . 373 

Gavage .... . 439 

Gelatin ... .10, 203 

" Digestibility of . 203 

" Nutritive Value of . 203 

" Source of . . . .203 

" Principles of Cooking 203 

Gelatinoids . . . 8-10, 140 

Ginger 33 

Glucose (See Dextrose). 
Gluten Bread .... 248 
" Standards . . 249 
Gout, Acute, Diet in . 367 
" Chronic, Diet in . . 368 
Grape Sugar (See Dextrose). 

Grapes 278 

Gruels 236, 238 

Gums 18 

B. 

Heat, Average Normal Out- 
put from Body . . .62 
Heart Disease, Diet in . . 396 
Helpless, Feeding the . 78 

Horse-radish 33 

Hospital Dietaries . . 323 



Ice Box and Contents . .91 
Ice Cream 307 



GENERAL INDEX 



471 



Ice, Keeping of, in Sick Eoom 83 
Ices .... . . 313 

Infant Feeding .... 406 

Artificial . 410 
Caloric Val- 
ues of 429 

Infant Feeding, Formulse for 416 
" " Hygiene of 

Natural 408 

Infant Feeding, Maynard 

Ladd Table for . . . 425 
Infant Feeding, Scheme of 
at Lying-in Hospital, 

N. Y 431 

Infant Feeding, Table Show- 
ing Proportions for 
Healthy Child . . .427 
Intestinal Diseases, Diet in . 381 
Iron . . . . .29 



Jellies, Starchy 
Juice, Gastric 
" Intestinal 
" Pancreatic 
Junket . 



K. 



Katabolism 

Kefir 

Kumyss 



. 244 

. . 38 

. . 38 

. . 38 

190, 293 



50 
192 
191 



Laetalbumin . . . .185 

Lactase . . 42, 186 

Lactose . . -141 185 

Lamb ... . 145 

" Cuts of .... 148 
" Test for Good . . 145 

Laparotomy, Diet after . . 399 

Lecithin 20 

Legumes ... . . 262 

" Composition of 262 

" Digestibility of . 263 



page: 
43 

284 
32 
40 

367 

403 



Levulose 

Lichens 

Lime Starvation 

Lipase 

Lithemia, Diet in 
Lying-In Period, Diet in 

il. 



Macaroni . . . . 235 

Magnesium . . .29 

" Phosphate . . 29 

Maltase . . . . 40 

Maltose ...... 40 

Marasmus in Infants, Die- 
tetic Treatment of . . 441 
Mastication . . . 41 

Matzoon . ... 192 

Measures ... .98 

" Apothecaries' . . lOO 

" Approximate . . 100 

" of Volume, Metric 

System 101 

Measures of Weight, Metric 

System .... 101 
Measures, Table of . . 99 

Measuring Cup, Standard . 98 
Meat 





140 


Absorption of . 


141 


Broiling of 


. 142 


Composition of . 


. . 140 


Cooking . 


142 


Cuts of 


143, 146 


Digestibility of 


. 141 


Effect of Cooking 


. . 141 



Principles of Cook- 



ing 



263 



" Effects of Water on . 143 

" Energy Value of . 149 

" Jellies . . 204, 218, 221 

" Nutritive Value of 140 

" Quality of . . . .143 

" Uncooked . . . 141 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates 52 

" Fat ... 52 

" " Protein . .51 

Metric System . 101 

Milk as a Beverage . . 35 

" Ash of . . . 185, 186 

" Care of 187 



473 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Milk, Certification of . . 187 
" Composition of . . . 184 
" Condensed . . . .192 
" Desiccated . . . .193 
" Difference Between Hu- 
man and Cows . . . 410 
Milk, Digestibility of 185 

" Energy Value of . 193 

" Evaporated . . 194 

" Eats of . . . 18S, 186 
(See Cream, Butter.) 
Milk, Fermented . . 191 

" Formulae, Fat to Pro- 
tein =3:1 ... 419 
Milk, Formulse, Fat to Pro- 

tein=;2:l ... 422 
Milk, Formulae, Fat to Pro- 
tein, nearly Equal . . 423 
Milk, Home Modification of 414 
" Human, Drugs in . 405 
" Laboratory . . 414 
'' Metschnikoff's Arti- 
ficially Soured Milk . 191 
Milk Modification . . 412 
" Modification, What Di- 
lution to Use . . 413 
Milk, Modified ... 192 
" Mothers, Composition 

of 407 

Milk, Nutritive Value of 185 
Pasteurisation of . 188 

" Peptonized . . . .192 
" Products 189 

" Quantity to Use in In- 
fant Feeding . . 413 
Milk, Skimmed . . . .186 
" Sour . . .190 

" Sterilisation of 188 

Milk, Sugar (See Lactose) . 
Mineral Matter .... 29 
" " Absorption of 49 

" " Amount and 

Kind of in Body . . 29 
Mineral Matter, Function of 29 
" " Importance 

of .31 

Mineral Matter in Plants . 31 
" " in Animal 
Food 30, 139 



Mineral Matter, Source of , 30 
" " Uses of in 

Disease 32 

Moss, Iceland . . . . , . 285 
" Irish ■ . . 285 

Mouth, Cleansing of, before 

Feeding . . . . 77 
Mumps, Diet in . . 350 
Mushrooms ... . 284 

Mustard . . 34. 

Mutton ... . 145 

Cuts of . . . 148 

" Test for Good . 145 

Myosin 10, 140 



2f. 

Nasal Feeding .... 79 
Nephritic Diet . . .392 
Nervous Disorders, Diet in . 395 
Nitrogen Balance . S4 
Nursing Bottle . . . .415 
" Mother, Diet of . 404 
" Schedule for . . 409 
Nut Butters ... 283 
" Flours . . 283 
Nutmeg ... 34 
Nutrition . 36 
" Conditions for Per- 
fect ... 7 
Nutrition, Diet in Disorders 

of ... . . 355 

Nuts .... 283 

" Composition of . 283 

" Cooking of . . . .283 

" Digestibility of . 284 

" Nutritive Value of 284 

0. 



Obesity, Diet in . 




370 


Oils . . . 




19 


Volatile . . . 




. 21 


Olein . . 




20 


Oranges 




. 277 


Oleomargarin . 




20 


Onions . 




264 


Ovariotomy, Diet after 


399 


Oysters 




. 166 



GENERAL INDEX 



473 



Oysters, Composition of . 167 
" Digestibility of . . 167 
" Energy Value of . 169 
" Principles for Cook- 
ing . . . . 167 

Oysters, Season for . . . 167 

" Variety of .168 

P. 

Palmitin 20 

Pancreatic Juiee . 38 

Parsnips . . . 264 

Pasteurisation 193 

" Apparatus for 194 

Peas ( See Legumes ) . 
Pectin Bodies . 277 

Pepper 34 

Pepsin ... . . 37 

Action of . . . 37 

Peptogenic Milk Powder in 

Infant Feeding . .433 

Peptones . . .37, 39 

Percentage Solutions, Tables 

for Preparing . . . 104 
Phosphorus . . . . 20, 29 
Physicians' Directions for 

Feeding the Sick . . 72 
Pineapples . 278 

Pneumonia, Alcohol in . 349 
" Diet in 348 

Polysaccharides . . . 16-19 
Pork ... 145 

Potassium 29 

Potatoes .... 264 

" Energy Value of . 265 
Poultry ... .152 

Digestibility of .152 
General Rule of 
Cleaning . ... 153 

Poultry, Principles of Cook- 
ing .. . . 153 
Pregnancy, Diet in .401 
Prematurity, Feeding in . 440 
Protein, Absorption of . .47 
" Acid . . . . 38 
Alkaline . 39 
Animal . . 138 
" Cooking of . . 11 



Protein, Digestion, Table of 39 

Function of . .10 

" Vegetable . 10 

Proteoses . . 39 

Prunes . . . 278 

Ptomaine Poisoning 93 

Ptyalin 40 

Puddings, Bread .... 302 
Punctuality in Serving 

Meals .... 75 

Purins ... . . 11 



Quinsy, Diet 346 

R. 

Radishes 264 

Rectal Feeding . . . 79-83 

" Formulae for 82 

" Technique of 81 

Reflex, Pharyngeal ... 41 

" Pyloric . . . 38 

Rennin 37 

Rheumatism, Acute, Diet in 368 
Chronic, Diet in 370 
Diet in . . . 370 
Rickets in Infants, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . .441 
Roots 263 

S. 

Saccharin 15 

Salad Dressings .... 272 
Salads . . .... 272 

Salsify 264 

Salt (See Sodium Chloride) 34 
Sandwiches . . . 258 

Sauces 33 

Salt Starvation .... 32 
Scurvy, Infantile, Dietetic 

Treatment of . .441 

Seasickness, Dietetics of . 402 
Sedentary, Diet of . 443 

Shell-Fish .... .166 

Sherbets . . 312 

Sick, Feeding the ... 72 



474 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAGE 

Skin Diseases, Diet in . . 396 
Sodium ... . . 29 
Sodium Chloride .... 30 
" " as a Condi- 
ment 34 

Soup 223 

" Accompaniments . 229 

" General Bule for 
Blending. . . . 223 

Spices 34 

Spinach ... .265 

Starch 16 

" Cooking of . . .18 

" Description of , . ... 17 

" Digestion of ... 40 

" Food Uses of . . 17 

" Source of ... 17 

" Test for . . . 19 

Starvation Diet . . . .334 

Steak, Broiled .... 149 

Steapsin (See Lipase) 

Stearin 20 

Sterilisation ... . 194 

Stirring in Cookery ... 90 

Stomach 36 

" Fundus of . . .37 

" Pyloric Sphincter of 38 

Tube, Use of . .79 

Strontium 32 

Sucrase 42 

Sugar 13 

" Dietetic Uses of . . 15 
" Digestion of . . .42 

" Invert 277 

" of Milk (See Lac- 
tose). 
Sugar Starvation .... 357 
" Substitutes for . . 15 
" Tests for .... 16 
" Use of in Cookery . 15 

Sulphur .29 

Surgical Cases, Dietetic 

Management of . . . 397 

Sweetbreads 200 

" Definition of . 200 

Digestibility of 200 

" Energy Value of 201 

Sweetina 15, 110 

Syntonin 10 



T. 

Tallow 20 

Tea 127 

" Active Principles of . 127 
" Effects of .... 128 

Thermometry ... .106 

Top Milk Method . . .416 
Toast .... . . 255 

Tubers (See Roots) . . .263 
Tuberculosis, Diet in . . 351 
Turnips .... . 264 



V. 

Ulcer, Gastric, Diet in . . . 376 
" " . in . 
Massachusetts Gen'l 
Hospital 379 

Unconscious, Feeding the . 78 

Uric Acid Excess (See 
Lithsemia). 

Utensils, Disinfection of . 84 



Veal 144 

" Test for Good . 145 

Vegetables 261 

Digestibility of . 262 
" Composition of . 261 

" Green . . . 265 

" Principles of 

Cooking . ... 262 

Vegetable Sauces . . .271 

Vinegar 34 

Viscera, Animal, Food Uses 

of 144 

Vomiting, Diet in . . . 402 
" in Young Chil- 
dren, Dietetic Treatment 
of 438 



W. 



Wafers 

Water 



260 
23 



GENERAL INDEX 



475 







PAGE 


Water 


, Absorption of 
Alkaline . 


. 49 

. 28 




Boiled . . 


. 27 




Carbonated . 


. 27 




Classification of 


. 25 




Composition of 
Distilled . . 


. 23 

. 27 




Drinking . 
Filtered . . 


. 25 
. 26 




Food Uses of 


. 25 




Functions of . 


. 24 




Hard . . . 


. 25 




in Animal Food 


. 139 




Properties of 
Eain . 


23 
26 




Soft . . . 


25 




Sources of 


24 




Spring 
Temperature of 


26 

28 



PAGE 

Water, Well . . .26 

Weaning 410 

Weight Development of In- 
fant, Computation of . 429 

Weights 98 

Table of ... 99 
" Apothecaries . . 100 

Wet Nurse 407 

" Diet of . . . 404 
Whey . . . .190 

Whey-made Formulae . . 424 
Whey Mixtures, Method for 

Calculating . . . .428 
Whooping Cough, Diet in . 351 



Zwieback 19 



INDEX TO 
PUEE FOODS — SUPPLIES FOE THE DIET- 
KITCHEN — SUPPLIES FOE THE 
SICK-EOOM 

" Good nutrition depends upon pure and healthful food." 
There is no subject which should more engross attention 
an the purity of the preparations that are used in the va- 
)us compounds for the human stomach, and in the siek- 
am. 

A. P. P. 



HIGHEST IN HONORS 

iWalter Baker & Co.'s 

CocoaiChocolate 

4 ^ ^ Years of Constantly 




Increasing Sales 

Hlghes 

Europe and America 



KO Highest Awards In 



A medical writer says — "The 
use of a thoroughly reliable prep- 
aration of cocoa should be uni- ] 
versally encouraged, and it is the I 
consensus of opinion among med- 
ical men as well as laboratory 
workers that the breakfast cocoa 
manufactured by Walter Baker 
& Co Ltd., not only meets the 
indications, but accomplishes even 
more than is claimed for it." 



Registered 
V. S. rat. offlce 



WALTER BAKER & CO. Ltd. 



Established 
1780 



DORCHESTER, MASS. 



A Drink in Fevers 



A teaspoon of Horsford's Acid Phos- 
phate added to a glass of cold water 
makes a cooling and refreshing acidulous 
drink for the patient during convalescence 
from typhoid and other febrile conditions. 

Its superiority over Dilute Phosphoric 
Acid, or any other acid, is due to the fact 
that it contains the phosphates of cal- 
cium, sodium, magnesium and iron, which 
means increased nutrition. 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate 

/s more palatable and strengthening than 
lemonade, lime Juice, or any other acidulous 
drink. 



If yonr druggist cannot supply yon tre mil send 
small bottle prepaid on receipt of 25 cents 



RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Providence, R. I. 




BORDEN'S 

EAGLE BRAND 
Condensed Milk 



Is a safe food for Infants. It 
is half a century past the ex- v 
perimental stage. The Best 
for Nursery and Household. 



BORDEN'S CONDENSED 
MILK COMPANY 



"Leaders of Quality" 



Established 1857 



479 



JUNKET 

^ Perfect Milk Food 




JUNKET TABLETS contain absolutely nothing 
but the pure Rennet Ferment and a little pure table 
salt. No chemicals whatever enter into their 
manufacture. 

Ideal for the preparation of WHEY, MODIFIED 
or HUMANIZED MILK, JUNKET PUDDINGS 
,and ICE CREAM in endless variety. 

10 tablets for lo quarts, loc. 
lOO tablets in a package, 7Sc. 



JunKet Brand Buttermilk Tablets 

Compressed Lactic Ferment Culture prepared at 
the bacteriological department of Chr. Hansen's 
Laboratory, Copenhagen, Denmark. 

Converts sugar of milk into lactic acid, rendering 
the milk palatable and healthful, and a preventive and 
curative for many intestinal disorders. 

15 tablets in a vial, 25c. 
75 tablets in a package, $1.00. 



At all druggists, 
manufacturers. 



or by mail direct from the 



CHR. HANSEN'S LABORATORY 

Box 1709 y 9 Little FaLlls. N. Y. 



480 




Infant Feeding 



P XCEPT that derived from the healthy mother's breast, the 
^-^ best food for an infant is the milk of licalthy cows, if 
these animals receive proper food and care. 

PVERY common-sense detail that it is possible to observe 
'—' is practiced in Dr. Brush's milk dairy. Nothing but 
the whole grist of the best grain — no refuse of any description 
—is used as food. All the care and 
attention to the cows is given with an ■' 

intelligent desire to produce good milk. 

TT is delivered in New York City at 15 
^ cents per quart ; orders addressed to 
me will receive prompt attention. 
E, F. BRUSH, M.D., 

Mount Vernon, N. Y. 



481 





' I am constant as the northern star, 
Of whose transfix'd and resting quality 
There is no fellow in the firmament." 

^Julias Cmsar. 

THERE are few useful products that have been 
more numerously and less successfully imi- 
tated than 

"BRUSH'S KUMYSS" 

THE same word, often the same lettering as directions 
on the label, the same colored ink, and sometimes 
a ^evice that imitates closely the trade-mark, may cover 
a base imitation. 

Only the word "BRUSH" will make your order 

definite. 

482 




The 

ConveJescent 

who has subsisted long 
upon fluids muS resume 
solid diet with care, and 
the capricious appetite muit 
be appealed to with an at- 
tradive, dainty, yet nutri- 
tive dish like 




which is prepared from pure crystal 
gelatine and sugar. 

Jell-O is cool and sparkling and 
appeals to the patient. As a result 
of psychological and physiological 
processes, the glandular and gastric 
secretions are stimulated, to the en- 
couragement of a normal appetite 
and digestion. 

Jell-O is not only a dish for the 
sick and convalescent but is a delic- 
ious dessert for everybody. 

It can be prepared in a minute. 
All gfocefs sell it, 1 cts, a package, 

THE GENESEE PURE FOOD COMPANY, 

Le Rny, N. Y., and Bridgebarg, Canada. 
483 



FOR SICK OR WELL 

MINUTE TAPIOCA 

IS EQUALLY GOOD 

It is made from only the most carefully 
selected material. 

It is prepared under the most favorable 
conditions — by skilled employees in a factory 
perfect as regards light, ventilation and sani- 
tation. 

It requires no soaking, and with it can be 
prepared in a few minutes any one of an al- 
most endless variety of delightful desserts. 

Try the recipes for Minute Tapioca in this 
book. If you want to know more way's of 
preparing it, write us for our free Minute 
Cook Book. 

Ask your grocer for Minute Tapioca and 
take no other. Look for the red Minute Man 
on the package. 

MINUTE TAPIOCA COMPANY 

193 W. Main St., Orange, Mass. 



♦ ♦♦♦♦^♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦f -t-M-M-f-M^ ♦♦♦♦♦» 



484 



PEPTONISING TUBES 

, FAIRCHILD 

By means of the Peptonising Tubes — Fairchild — and the 
Fairchild peptonising process, foQ^s which are adequate for the 
nourishment of the healthy and vigorous are adapted to the 
weakened digestive functions of the sick. 

Peptonised milk, peptonised milk gruel, etc., are genuine 
foods, and resources of well-known value in the nutrition of 
the sick, convalescents, invalids and dyspeptics. 

PANOPEPTON 

Panopepton presents in a highly agreeable solution the two 
great types of food, beef and wheat, freed from innutritions 
and indigestible substance, peptonised and ready for assimi- 
lation. 

Panopepton has a fixed standard of composition, in which 
the ratio of protein to carbohydrate has been carefully con- 
sidered, is uniform, absolutely sterile, contains no chemical 
preservative and no cane sugar. 

PEPTOGENIC MILK POWDER 

FOR PREPARING MILK FOR INFANTS 

Peptogenic Milk Powder not only adjusts cows' milk to the 
percentage composition of norrhal mothers' milk, but goes 
further, and makes the casein soluble and non-coagulable like 
the albuminoids of mothers' milk — the crucial point in advance 
of every other method of modification. 

The Peptogenic Milk Powder and Process were introduced 
in 1884. 

ESSENCE OF PEPSINE 

FAIRCHILD 

Essence of Pepsine — Fairchild — is a true extract of the gas- 
tric juice, obtained by direct extraction from the secreting 
glands; contains the enzymes, and has the digestive and seda- 
tive properties of the gastric juice;' useful in the digestive dis- 
orders of adults and infants and for making junket and \yhey. 

Junket and whey, as prepared with Essence of Pepsine — 
Fairchild— are infused with the gratefully stomachic qualities of 
the Essence, and are therefore peculiarly valuable under the condi- 
tions in which these foods are indicated. 

FAIRCHILD BROS. & FOSTER ^i^^ 

4b5 




rape Juice 



It's Jvist the 
Pure, Unfermented Juice 



— o/ == 

Choicest Concord Grapes 

Welch's Grape Juice contains no alcoliol, preserva- 
tive or chemical of any kind. The expressed juice of 
the full-ripe grapes is sterilized without delay and 
hermetically sealed in glass. When rehottled in the 
usual sizes it is again sterilized. 

Welch's Grape Juice is a splendid temperance bev- 
erage. It is in no way a stimulant, but possesses the 
dietetic value of fresh Concord grapes. It is of spe- 
cial value in convalescence, particularly from fevers. 

Literature free. Sample 3 oz. bottle by mail, 10c. 

Sold by druggists and grocers everywhere. 
BUT BE SUEE TO GET WELCHES. 
JTHE WELCH GRAPE JUICE CO.. Westfield, N. Y. 



486 




A Delicious, Nourishing Diet 

in the Sick Room and 

Hospital Ward 

Selected recipes will be found in 
this book for preparing original 
delicacies from Horlick's Malted 
Milk, that will not fail to tempt 
the appetite of fastidious invalids. 

Samples sent, free and prepaid, 
upon request. 



Specify "Horlick's" Malted Milk, the original 
and only genuine. Others are imitations. 

HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO. 

RACINE, WIS., U. S. A. 



487 



Hoyt's Gum Gluten 



GUM GLUTEN 



HOW PROCURED 

As a rule, the. leading grocer ip a city is agent for Gum 
Gluten. If not easily ppocured, 'write to the manufacturers, The 
Pure Gluten, Food Co!, 90 We^t Broadway, New York, for name 
of the nearest 'agent, and their latest literature on Gluten. 

, THE PURE FOOD LAW 

XJ. -^ Stgindard for;Ohiten.—"(il,VTEN FLOUR is the product 
made -from flour^bytlie removal of starch, and contains net less 
than five and .s]^x -tenths (5.6) per cent, of Nitrogen,' and not less 
than ten (10) -per cent, of Moisture." 

NOTE.— Using the factor, 6.25, usually employed by the U. S. 
Government chemists. Standard Gluten Flour must, therefore, 
show at least thirty-five (35) per cent, protein. 

is guaranteed to he much richer in 
protein than the Government Stand- 
ard prescribes. 
The increase of diabetes among young children is noteworthy; 
that it may be due to the increased use of malted and dextrinized 
cereal foods, at a time when the digestive organs are not pre- 
pared to digest them, is very probable. 

Cow's milk differs from mother's milk in that the casein of 
cow's milk coagulates as soon as it reaches the stomach and 
comes in contact with the rennet ferment, into a cheese-like mass, 
which is not easily broken up and digested 'by the delicate stomach 
of the infant; while the casein of mother's milk forms a flaky 
coagula, which is easily penetrated by the digestive juices. To 
prevent cow's milk from coagulating into a cheese-like mass, 
various food substances are added. Hoyt's Gum Gluten Flour is 
especially suited to this purpose. 

Hoyt's Gum Gluten resembles milk in that its chief element 
is nitrogenous, and of the same muscle-forming character as 
casein, and require essentially the same ferments for their proper 
digestion. 

When impossible for an infant to retain other food in the 
stomach, Hoyt's Gum Gluten Flour, made into a gruel, may be 
retained, and give strength, after which milk and milk-sugar 
may be added. 

GUM GLUTEN BISCUIT CRISPS 

are most delicate and nutritious— a popular and convenient form 
of Gluten. 

Higher in protein than any other biscuit or cracker on the 
market. More nourishing than meat, without the heat and fat- 
producing qualities. Invaluable when a child requires some kind 
of a biscuit or cracker; also tor adults when a starch restricted 
diet is required. 

Send 2c. stamp for sample box of Crisps and complete price 
list, etc. 

SWEETINA 

A bottle will be mailed to any address upon receipt of 25c. 



PURE GLUTEN FOOD CO. 

90 WEST BROADWAY, NEW YORK 



^^ 



UNIVERSALLY APPRECIATED 




mwe. m 



COMPANY- NEW YOKH 



;,JP)URITV- ABSOLUTE 

fi,,Vi«liSlVOR~ UNIQUE 
p-BJlfttaANCY-SUPBEME 

pomiN&'FriiEti.BRODuciBU 






PURITY ABSOLUTE 

FLAVOR UNIQUE 

NOTHING FINER PRODUCIBLE 

NIGELLE 
OLIVE OIL 

" It is our opinion the analytical tests of the UNITED STATES 
BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY prove NICELLE OLIVE OIL 
superior to all known brands tesled." Stillwell & Gladding, 
Chemists to New York Produce Exchange. 

Its Vs^ Recommended by 

Miss ALIDA FRANCIS PATTEE Miss CORNELIA C. BEDFORD 
Miss FANNIE MERRIT FARMER Miss JANET MACKENZIE HILL 
Miss HELEN ARMSTRONG Miss ANNA BARROWS 

AND OTHERS 

NICELLE OLIVE OIL COMPANY 

OF PIM-OLA FAME NEW YORK 

489 



FLEISGHMANN'S 

COMPRESSED YEAST 

HAS NO EQUAL 



490 




BFor Upwards of Forty »jl 

... Years the Use of !j 

\ Tcllo(v$' Syrup of i 

I l)ypopbo$pbite$ | 

1^ has been recommended by the m 

B Leading Medical Specialists m 

..- in aU Countries H 

B '^ SI 

Bo _;- -^..^Worthless Substitutes RfJ 

^^'^"^PreparaUons "Just as Good* wA 




MODERN DIETETICS considers not only 
the potential value of food -stuffs, but 
their actual nutrient content. 

Liquid Pepfonoids 



NUTRIENT AQSNT 


Total 
Solids 


Protela 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Fat 


Ash 


Water 




% 


% 


% 


% 


% 


% 


Milk 


12.8 


3.5 


4.9 


3.7 


0.7 


87.2 


Buttermilk 


9.0 


3.0 


4.8 


0.5 


0.7 


91.0 


Whey 


7.0 


1.0 


5.0 


0.3 


0.7 


93.0 


Beef Juice 


4.28 


2.19 


. . 




2.09 


95.72 


Beef Tea 


3.72 


1.02 






2.7 


96.28 


Barley Water .... 


0.23 


0.09 


6.06 


0.05 


0.03 


99.77 


Egg Albumen Water 


1.S 


1.5 


• • 


Alcohol 


• • 


98.5 


Liquid Peptonoids . 


20.0 


5.25 


13.8 


17.5 


0.95 


62.5 



Dry Peptonoids 

(Soluble) 

is a highly concentrated food, every particle of 
which is of nutrient value. It dissolves freely in 
any fluid used as food, and is of agreeable flavor. 
It contains no extractive or waste material. 

Both preparations are, therefore, of great ser- 
vice to the nurse, both as Emergency Nutrients 
in Acute Diseases and Auxiliary Food Tonics 
during Convalescence or in Cachectic or Debil- 
itated Conditions. 

THE ARLINGTON CHEMICAL CO. 
Yonkers, N. Y. 

Samples to Nuraes on request .„„- 



WHY IS 

Scott's Emulsion 

THE BEST IN THE WORLD? 

BECAUSE it is made of the purest and 
best ingredients obtainable. 

BECAUSE it contains MORE healing, 
strengthening and up-building material 
than any other Emulsion. 

BECAUSE it is a perfect product of a 
scientifically perfect process. 

BECAUSE there is no alcohol or other 
harmful ingredient in it. 

BECAUSE every drop of it is clean, pure 
and healthful. 

BECAUSE it is 
recommended 
by more phy- 
sicians than 
any other 
preparation of 
Cod Liver Oil. 





^ 




^& 




^^ 




y 


f 




1 


11 




^ 



FOR 

Anemia 

and 

Loss of 

Flesh, 

Coughs 

Colds 

Lung and 

Chest 
Troubles 



For these, and other reasons, it 
has become the standard through- 
out the world. 



493 



Perfect Circulation" 

And Absence of Odors 

in your refrigerator is only possible by using 
the Bohn Syphone System. It insures a rapid 
and unobstructed circulation of. cold, dry air, 
enabling you to keep butter and milk in the 
same compartment with cantaloupe or onions, 
without contamination. The 

BOHN SYPHON 
REFRIGERATOR 

has been proven superior to all others only 
after severe tests. All the great railroads, 
hotels and restaurants use it. They know 
what is best. No scrubbing necessary to keep 
it clean. Just wipe with a damp cloth. No 
inaccessible pipes, crevices or slots, no dark 
comers to hold germs. 

GENUINE "VITREOUS" 
Porcelain Enamel Lining 

applied by lock joint, making practically a one- 
piece lining. The glossy white surface of the 
enamel will never discolor, crack or peel 
off. A low and uniform temperature is 
assured always with the least con- 
sumption of ice. 

WHITE ENAMEL 

REFRIGERATOR CO 

OF NEW YORK 

59 W. 42d Street 

NEW YORK 

Factory: 
St. Paul, Minn 



494 





SLICED 




Packed the 
day it is 
picked on 
the field 
where it 
grows in the 
highest state 
of pineapple 
perfection. 



EAT ALL THE HAWAIIAN PINE- 
APPLE YOU WANT— it's good for you 
— wholesome and digestible. Serve the Sliced as 
a fruit course for any meal; try it as a breakfast 
fruit; use it for desserts — for there is nothing in 
a can of Hawaiian Pineapple that isn't pure and 
healthful, and the fruit is the choicest pineapple 
in the world — the best of Hawaiia's crop. If 
your grocer hasn't it send his name for booklet 
of pineapple recipes. 
irse TRIBUNE BUILDING NEW YORK CITY 



495 



GOOD THINGS TO EAT 

THAT ARE 

HOME MADE 

PRESERVES, MARMALADES, PICKLES, 
RELISHES, JELLIES, MINCE MEAT, 
PLUM PUDDING. 



This Kitchen is under the personal supervis- 
ion of Miss Chivvis, who assures the public that 
only the purest and best goods are used in her 
establishment. 



SPECIALTIES 

GINGER PEARS, GRAPE CONSERVE,. 
SPANISH PICKLE, CENTURY RELISH. 



Special prices to Hospitals, Hotels, Clubs, etc. 

Price list furnislneci orx application. 

C. E. CHIVTIS, - ■ MOUNT TERNON, NEW YORK 



496 



THERAPEUTIC APPLIGATIOli OF GUM GLUTEN 

Dyspepsia, Gastritis, etc. — Being non-fermentative and 
quickly reduced by the digestive fluids. Gum Gluten is a food 
in perfect harmony with the action of the stomach and can 
be eaten in the form of gruel. 

Convalescence.— As Gum Gluten is, remarkably rich in 
nucleo-albumen and all other cell-building material, it Is 
capable of greatly quickening and intensifying the integrat- 
ing processes of cell life and giving impulsive energy and 
force in the revival of the system to its normal metabolism. 

Rheumatism, Gout and Uric Acid Diathesis.— Being non- 
acid making and non-fermenting, and digested by the action of 
the stomach. Gum Gluten has a distinct specific value in all 
rheumatic conditions. 

Obesity.— As Gum Gluten is the muscle-building element of 
wheat, it is the rational unfailing cure of this uncomfortable 
condition. 

Diabetes Mellitus.— Gum Gluten can be made into bread and 
a great variety of dishes, and is the most satisfactory substi- 
tute for the wheat flour bread or bread in common use, and 
the effects are particularly noticeable in the reduction of sugar 
in the daily tests. 

Other Conditions.— All ansemic and chlorotic conditions due 
to an insufficient supply of red blood corpuscles or lack of 
haemoglobin, or both, and more remotely to a disordered nutri- 
tion, are furnished the one thing needed by Gum Gluten. 

For Nursing Mothers.— It enriches the lacteal secretions. 

For Infants' Food.— To increase the amount of protein it 
should be freely used. 

For the expectant mother It supplies the prenatal aliment 
par excellence, since it is rich in all those elements which 
serve to maintain the nutritive system at its best. 

For the Aged, the Enfeebled, the Invalid, and all whose 
vital powers are waning, Gum Gluten will be found a most 
wholesome, sustaining and helpful food. In its blood-making 
property it restores to the system the loss which has resulted 
in enervation and decline. 



PURE GLUTEN FOOD CO. 

90 WEST BROADWAY 

NEW YORK 

497 



Boohs that Every Woman Should Possess 

KNOW THYSELF SERIES 

TWELVE BOOKS 

BY 

SUSANNA COCROFT 



NO WORK HAS HERETOFORE BEEN PUBLISHED, EXCEPT THE 
TEXT-BOOK PHrSIOLOGY, WHICH GIVES SO INTELLIGENT A SCIEN- 
TIFIC KNOWLEDGE OF THE MECHANISM AND WORKINGS OF THE 
HUMAN BODY. THE VITAL FUNCTIONS ARE NOT ONLY EXPLAINED 
IN THESE LECTURES, BUT ALL VITAL ORGANS ILLUSTRATED BY 
COLORED PLATES. 

MISS COCROFT BELIEVES THAT ALL THE QUALITIES THAT 
MAKE A WOMAN WELL, WHOLESOME, MAGNETIC AND ATTRACTIVE 
ARE HERS IF SHE USES THE INTELLIGENCE GIVEN TO HER, AND IN 
HER LECTURES SHE POINTS THE WAY. THEY VITALLY CONCERN 
EVERY WOMAN AND ARE THE CLEAREST, MOST COMPLETE HANDLING 
OF THE SUBJECTS WHICH PERTAIN TO THE HEALTH OF WOMAN AND 
THE HAPPINESS OF HOME. 

GROWTH IN SE-ENCE. 

POISE AND SYMMETRY OF HGURE. (Obesity and Leanness.) 

IDEALS AND PRIVILEGES OF WOMAN. 

CIRCULATION— Heart and Longs. 

BODY MANIKIN. 

CHARACTER— As Expressed in the Body. (Illustrated.) 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM— Effect of Habit upon Life. 

SELF-SUFFiaENCY— Mental Poise. 

MOTHERHOOD.— Tlie Generative Organs. 

THE VITAL ORGANS— Liver, Stomach, Intestines and Kidneys, 

their Use and Abuse. 
BEAUTY— Hair, Eyes, Teeth, Hands, Feet and Ears. 
FOODS— Nutritive Value and Digestibility. 

Twelve books bound separately in pure white, cream and brown heavy art, 
deckle-edge paper, $4.00. Single copies, 40 cents— except Body Manikin, 
which is 50 cents. 

Bound in brown flexible leatherette cover, $6.50. Single copies, 60 cents. 



A. F. PATTEE 

MEDICAL PUBLISHER AND BOOKSELLER 
MT. VERNON, N. Y. 

498 




Doctors 
Prescribe 
Nurses 
Recommend 
Patch's Pure 
Sterilized ^ 
Sugar of Mill( 

WHY? 



"Because they realize the impor- 
tance of using the best that can be obtained 
in the market. A Milk Sugar free from 
acids, alkaline earths, casein residues, fer- 
ment germs and other faulty contamina- 
tions. The cans are thoroughly cleansed 
and sterilized, and tightly sealed. It starts 
right, it keeps right, and many years of 
esperience has convinced careful observers 
that Patch's is THE Sugar of Milk. 

The E. L. Patch Co., Boston, Mass, 

Manufacturers of a Full Line' of Pharmaceuticals. 



499 




GOOD NUTRITION DEPENDS" 

also upon COOKING. The cook 
will always transmute even the 
plainest of foods into tempting 
delicacies if the Kitchen contains 
THE SEELY SANITARY 
FIRELESS COOKER. 

FOOD Is boiled but a, fewmlnntes on tbe 
stove and then placed In the Gooker,where 
twenty-one hours elapse before the tem- 
perature In the institutional sizes falls to 
150° Fahrenheit. The original cells, tissues 
and flavors are practically intact; there 
is no occasion for stirring: and long, 
slow cooking is completely accomplished 
in a moist, high heat. 

MIGATS retain their Juices, lose but 
little weight and even the toughest be- 
come thoroughly tender. 
w ^ «,.ni .. i Y^ ^», , ^ ,„- FISH possess a sweetness hitherto un- 

No. 4. 2 l;t-Qt. Aluminum Kettles, feeds 130. fcnovn. 

VEGETABLES are unbroken in shape 
and retain all mineral salts. 

CANNED VEGETABLES brought to the boll and ri pened In the Cooker equal 
the fresh in flavor. 

SOUPS AND BROTHS are rich In concentrated goodness with one-tenth the 
labor of preparation. 

CEREALS AND STARCHF FOODS are as delicious as desserts and expand 
abnormally, requiring but little more than half the usual measure to prepare. 

FRESH FRUITS, Apples, Pears, Cranberries, etc.. are particularly delicious. 

DRIED AND EVAPORATED FRUITS swell to their original size, full and 
perfect and equal to the best home-made preserves. 

FOOD may be prepared In a central kitchen at any convenient hour, distrib- 
uted where wanted and served hot even tw^enty-four hoars later. 

THE SAVING in fuel and labor required to prepare food is fully eighty 
per. cent. 

ALL USERS testify that the Cooker pays for Itself In a fe-w weeks. 

Those having steam apparatus give preference to the Cooker for superiority 
of product and saving in supplies. 

THE SEELY SANITARY FIRELESS 
COOKER is an all metal washable utensil lined 
with tinned copper — no cushions or felt at any 
point— durable— continuous service without re- 
pairs — made in sizes to suit all requirements of 
Institutions or Individuals. 

For full information and prices address: 

THE FRANCES A. SEELY CO. 

5809 ROSALIE COURT, CHICAGO, ILL. 

PHTSICIAlSrS AND NURSES 
will find the Cooker inraluable both 
for their own nse and those nnder 

their care. Special terms to those no. i. i2Qt.,2 3-i!t.,i6-Qt. Ennmei 
answering this advertisement. 




Kcttlea — for small famillea and nurses. 



CRACKED ICE KEPT CONTINUOUSLY 

at hand and practically without meltluar In THE SEELY SANITARY 
PORTABLE COOLER. First made by request of a large hospital and found 
completely successful— all washable metal— compact. Not affected by tem- 
perature of room— stands on the floor wherever most convenient for Surgeons 
and Nurses. "Write for partlcnlars. 

500 



Dr. JOHNSON'S 

EDUCATOR 
CRACKERS 



START LIFE RIGHT BY PROVIDING THE 




FOOD RING FOR TEETHING INFANTS 

Follow this with a variety of EDUCATOR 
CRACKERS which form a perfect cereal diet 
for young and, old, well and ill. 



JOHNSON EDUCATOR FOOD CO. 

BOSTON NEW YORK PHILADELPHIA PROVIDENCE NEWBURYPORT 
501 



Gingham for Nurses' Uniforms 





Orders filled promptly for Ging- 
ham or Chambray for Nurses' Uni- 
forms, by piece only (38 to 58 yards 
in piece), 124 cents per yard. 

Send sample and state number of 
yards required, and we will send as 
near as possible the quantity required. 

Goods sent CO D. express collect. 




A. F. PATTEE 
134 South First Avenue Mount Vernon, N, Y. 

602 



Get f?id of the Dast 




^%£to.< 



The medical profession is agreed 
that dust and dirt are the com- 
monest sources of disease. 

The germ-laden dust is every- 
where—even the cleanest hospital 
Is not exempt. The only means 
for its complete annihilation is 
vacuum cleaning. 

Many vacuum cleaners have been 
devised, but the one perfect clean- 
er — recognized everywhere as the 
Standard of excellence — is the port- 
able electric 




The Santo combines both a high, even 
and continuous suction with a large volume of 
air. It is the only cleaner having both suction 
ana volume which is necessary for thorough 
cleaning. 

It runs without vibration and less npise than 
a light-running sewing machine. Xlse it in hos- 
pital or sick-room without the slightest annoy- 
liiice to the patient. 

The Santo removes every particle of dust 
and dirt from all the furnishings, floors and 
woodwork, aerates bedding, etc. It puts an end 
to sweeping and dusting. Cost to operate, less 
than two cents per hour. 

Weight only 50 lbs. Complete tool equipment 
for 20 different uses, including massaging by 
suction. It is very simple, and is sold under an 
unlimited written guaranty. Used and endorsed 
by U. S. Government and over 60,000 homes, 
churches, hospitals and other institutions. 

Write for book, "The Dustless Home," which 
gives full particulars. Mailed free. 

J^ellstt IVIatiofaetuiTitig Co., 

Phlladelpbla 

503 




Bectif ual view Simple'^ 

nothing to get out 

of order. 



lDept. P.O. 



20th Anniversary Announcement 



OF THE 



Home Bnreau= Medical House 
1890=1910 

To 

Doctors, Nurses 
Hospitals* and the Public 

The Home Bureau- Medical House, as evidence 
of the steady and rapid growth it has enjoyed 
since its inception twenty years ago, beg;^ to 
submit the following facts : 

In 1890 started with:— 

No Capital — i Room 

i Employee — 6 Quarts of Broth 

500 Booklets for Advertising 

In 1910 has:— 

Incorporated Co. Medical House, 

Larg:e Building; — 30 Employees, Extensive Diet Kitchen, 

Largfest Reg'istry Nurses in World, 

Surgical Dressings, Supplies, Obstetrical Sets, 

District Nurses' Bags, Invalid Furniture, Invalids Moved, 

Houses Disinfected, Rest Cure Apartments, 

50,000 Booklets for Advertising. 

504 




Physicians', Nurses and 
Mothers' Headquarters for 
all necessities of the hospital, 
sick room and nursery. 



Let us send 
Anniversary 
information 
of the Home 



you a copy of our 
Bookletwhich gives full 
concerning the work 
Bureau-Medical House. 



MEDICAL HOUSE 



Home Barean-Medical House 

52 West 39th Street 
New York 

Tel. 406-407-408-409 Murray Hill. 




iNe< 

MEDICAL HOUSE 



505 



THE 

PENNSYLVANIA ORTHOPAEDIC INSTITUTE 

AND 

SCHOOL OF MEGHANO -THERAPY 

(Incorporated) 

1711 Creen Street Philadelphia Pa. 

OFFERS TO NURSES 

SCIENTIFIC OOITSSES IST MECELAJTICAi:. TKEATMENTS 

Course in Medical Massage 

Snredlsh MoTements, medical and Orthopsedic Gymnastics 

Term: 3 Montlis Tuition Fee, |75.00 

Course in Electro-Therapy 

Term: 2 Montlis Tuition Fee, $26.00 

Course in Hydro-Therapy in all its forms 

Term: 6 Weelis . . ... Tuition Fee, $30.00 

Clnsses open in January, llareli. May, July, September, and NoTember. 

All courses may be commenced at the same time and finished within 
three months. The instruction consists of daily clinical work and 
practical lessons on patients referred to our clinics from the various 
Hospital Dispensaries. Lectures and Quizzes on Anatomy, Physiology 
and Pathology by Physicians of the stafE. Demonstrations and 
Instruction in the use of all mechanical apparatus. Complete Medico- 
Mechanical Zander Gymnasium. 

Original Swedish (Ling) system, and Weir Mitchell's Rest-Cure 
system. All pupils attend clinics at several city hospitals. Payments 
can be made to suit your convenience. Particulars and illustrated 
booklet on Massage upon request. An enrly application for admission is 
advisable. A diploma is awarded at the end of the term. 

STAFF OF ijrsTaxrcTOK.B 

WM. EGBERT ROBERTSON, M.D. (Professor of Medicine, Temple 

University). 
HOWARD T. KARSNER, M.D. \ (Instructors University of Pennsyl. 
HOWARD A. SUTTON, M.D. / vania). 

ELDRIDGE L. BLIASON, M.D. (Instructor University of Penna.) 
LOUIS H. A. VON COTZHAUSEN, Ph.G., M.D. (Graduate Phila. 

College of Pharmacy, Med. Dept. University of Penna., Penna. 

Orthopaedic Institute). 
WM. BRWIN, M.D. (Hahnemann and Rush Med. Col.) 
MAX J. WALTER (Univ. of Penna., Royal Univ., Breslau, Germany, 

and lecturer to St. Joseph's, St. Mary's, Philadelphia General 

Hospital (Blockley), Mount Sinai and W. Phila. Hosp. for Women, 

Cooper Hosp., etc.) 
HELENS BONSDORFF (Gym.^Ins., Stockholm, Sweden). 

EDITlFw KNIGirr^^''' I (Pennsylvania Orthopaedic Institute). 
MARGARET A. ZABEL (German Hospital, Philadelphia, Penna. Ortho- 
paedic Institute). 

For all further information, especially date of opening of classes, address the 
Sutertntendent. ^^ ^_ WAtTEK. Supt. 

506 




Welcome Support 

to the tired and sagging muscles of the 
arch is given by. the Coward Arqh Prop 
Shoe, which provides natural and adequate 
support to the weakened ligaments. 

The special construction of the shoe holds 
the arch up into place, relieves the ache 
and restores strength and tone to the foot 
structure. 



SOLD NOWHERE ELSE 

JAMES S. COWARD 

264-274 Greenwich St., N. Y. 

(near warren street) 

Mail Orders Filled | Send for Catalogue 

507 



There M\ist be 
Sc R. e ©^ s o n ! 



Visible Writing 




Visible Keyboard 

The Model 10 Smith Premier 
Typewriter wats awarded the 

niLST GRAND PRIZE 
over all other >vriting mat- 
chines at the Exposition Uni- 
verse lie. Brussels 1910. '^ 

Write for literature concerning the special 
machine we are building for the medical 
profession. : : , : : : 

"Bhe Smith Premier Typewriter Co. 

319 Broadwaty. cor. TKoina.s St., Neve York City 



5U8 



The BEST WORK PUBLISHED for 
HOSPITAL INTERNES and 

SURGICAL NURSES 



THE SURGICAL ASSISTANT 

(SECOND EDITION) 
BY 

WALTER M. BRICKNER, B.S., M.D. 

Assistant Adjunct Surgeon, Mount Sinai Hospital, New 

York, and Chief in Surgical Out-patient Department; 

Surgeon to N. Y. Sanitarium for Hebrew Children, 



The Most Comprehensive Manual on Operating Room 
Technic and Methods. 

It is replete with definite instructions, useful hints and valuable "wrinkles" not 
elsewhere set down in print. 
It details : 

Xhe General Condnct or the Asststant; the Interne; Aaslatance at 
DresalUKs. Fracture Reductions, etc. Preparation of an Operating 
Room. TFhe Xechnlc of Asepsis In all Its Practical Bearings. Prep- 
aration of the Patient. Xhe Anesthetist. Preservation and Sterlll* 
zatlon of Instruments and Accessories. Formulas and Bfethods of 
Surgrlcal Sterilization. Hovp to **lland" Instruments. Technics of 
Assistance In the Varloas Operative manipulations. Immediate 
After-Cure of the Patient. Formulae of Solutions, etc. Instruments 
and Accessories (and their preparation) for each operation, etc., etc. 



The only hook that is devoted to theynethods and duties of those who ASSIST 
the surgeon^ and contains descriptions of all the important operations, step by 
step,yr(7OT the assistant's standpoint. 

Bound In Cloth, 363 Pages. Price, $2.00 Postpaid. 123 Original Illustrations. 



INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SURGERY COMPANY 

Medical Publishers 

100 WILLIAM STREET, ^„„ NEW YORK, U. S. A. 

509 



Im^l^^^^ 



" CURES WHILE YOU SLEEP" 



VAPORIZER 

IS SIX 

INCHES 

HIGH 



LASTS A 
LIFETIME 




Treatment without iuternal medication is highly desirable 
in Whooping Cough arid Croup, particularly in the very young. In 
the use of vaporized Cresolene such a method is available. For 
thirty years Cresolene has been used as a remedy for Croup and 
Whooping Cough with great success, and is becoming more and 
more popular with physicians, in the treatment and prevention of 
Measles, Scarlet Fever, Diphtheria and Bronchitis, 

Laboratory tests show that vaporized Cresolene destroys the 
germ of Diphtheria ; also a one percent, solution of Cresolene with 
water kills the germs of Diphtheria, Typhoid Fever and Pus, at 
once. Thus the value of Cresolene rests upon the fact of its great 
germicidal power^ and the method of treatment. 

For sale by all Druggists. Literature on application. 

THE VAPO-GRESOLENE CO., 180 FULTON ST., NEW YORK. 

Lee'mlng-Mlles Building, Montreal, Canada. 



510 



National Head- 
quarters f o r 

DIETITIANS 



HOSPITALS desiring dietitians 
can secure the services of grad- 
uates from leading Schools of 
Household Arts by applying to 
us. Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is made 
for this service. 

DIETITIANS desiring hospital 
positions are invited to register 
with 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South First Avenue, 
Mt. Vernon, New York 



511 



QUILTED 
MATTRESS PADS 

AN acknowledged luxury for the bed. and endorsed 
by physicians for the nursery and for obstetrical 
purposes. These pads are made of bleached 
white muslin, both sides quilted, with white wadding 
of the best grade between. 




Keeps bed clean and sweet, mattress in a sanitary con- 
dition. Restful to sleep on. Saves labor and money. 
Babies can be kept dry and in. comfort. Easily washed. 
Send for Sample. Made in fourteen sizes. The pop- 
ular sizes are: 18x34, 27x40, 36x76, 42x76. 54x76. 
FOR SALE IN DRYGOODS STORES 



JShe Excelsior Quilting Co. 

.15 LAIGHT STREET NEW YORK CITY 



613 




Woman's Belt, Front View 



A Supporter in Harmony with 3Iodern Surgery 

The "Storm" Binder and Abdominal Supporter 

Patented July 10, 1906 

The "Storm" Binder and Ab- 
dominal Supporter is light 
(5 oz.), flexible, washable and 
durable, and without steel or 
rubber in its construction. It is 
used for any purpose for which 
an abdominal supporter may be 
needed for a man, woman or 
child. It is perfectly adapted 
for general support, and by the 
special application of the rein- 
forcing strap with a pad may be 
used for local support as for 
hernia. It is especially valuable 
for movable kidney and for re- 
laxation with ptosis of stomach, 
liver or intestines, giving rise to 
symptoms of pain and obstinate 
indigestion. ' 

As a. Post Operative Binder it has no superior for comfort and effi- 
ciency, and may be adapted' to the upper, middle, lower or lateral ab- 
dominal regions, thus making it an ideal 

binder after operations upon the kidney, 

gall bladder, appendix or pelvic organs. 

The "Storm" Binder is a greart comfort 

to women during pregnancy and the 

pnerperhim, and in conditions of bladder 

or pelvic inflammation marked relief is 

experienced by lifting the super-imposed 

weight from the congested parts by 

means of this soft elastic supporter. 
Illustrated folder giving styles, prices 

and diagram for measuring and partial 

list of physicians using "Storm" Binder 

sent on request. All mail orders filled 

within twenty-four hours on receipt of price. 

No Whalebones— No Rubber Elastic— No Leather 
Washable as Underwear— It Supports with Comfort 
The invention which took the prize offered by the Managers of the 
Woman's Hospital of Philadelphia L 

KATHERINE 1. STORM, M.D. i' 

1612 Diamond Street Philadelphia 

Office Hours, 10 to 4, and by appointment 



5io 




Man's Belt, Front View 




Hand-I-Hold 

BABE HITS 




?? 



AND THEIR USES. ^ . 

T^C^'7T2Ti/T A TO PREVENT 
J—'V^'t-fCriVlxl., SCRATCHING. 

THUMB SUCKING, 
LEFT HANDEDNESS, 
NAIL BITING. 

"HAND- 
I-HOLD" \ INVALUABLE IN 
BABEMITS X ^^^„„^^,^ 
are light-weight, N** O S P I T A L 

daintily enamelled balls|>v C 'R R V I C E 
spun without seam from al-^v ' 

uminum. They are ventilated \ ETC., ETC 
and have sleeves of wash fabric. 



\ 



The hands are confined in the balls, which makes it 

absolutely impossible for the child to scratch, suck 

his thumb, bite his finger nails, or pick at bandages. 

\ Yet it is all done so gently and humanely that the 

] child is made happy by their use, for his arms, 

r^^j wrist, and fingers are practically free from restraint. 

So sure are we of results that we guarantee satis- 

\ faction or refund your money. Whether you have 

\ children in your home, or not, it will be well worth your 

while to drop a postal card for our FREE BOOKLET 

"D." which will tell you all about "Hand-l-Hold" Babe Mits. 



R. M. Clark & Co. 
246 Summer St., 
BOSTON, MASS. 








514 




Hygeia Nursing Bottle Co., Buffalo, N. Y 



Boa Baby. 



No trouble 
to wean baby 
with the Hy- 
geia nursing 
bottle, because 
it has a breast, 
and it is the only 
nursing bottle 
with a breast. 
The breast is 

reinforced, reversible, and is easily turned inside out for cleansing. 

The receptacle is not a bottle, but an open cell. It is filled 

without a fiinnel, cleaned without a brush, and serves as a 

cup for the breast-nipple, during the interim of 

feeding. 

Both breast and cell are so constructed, that 

they are sanitary in the fullest sense of the 
The breast ^^^j^ 

The Hygeia Sterilizer, or Pasteurizer, is 

as simple in construction as the Hygeia nursing bot- 
tle. For use, and for cleanliness, it is beyond com- 
pare, and unexcelled for simplicity. The food-cell 
of the sterilizer is the same as the cell of the Hygeia 
nursing bottle. The cell is covered with a steri- 
lizer cap, which is open at the top, so that it can 
be corked with cotton. 

The rack, that supports the food-cells, is above 
which is used in the sterilizer, for the heating of 
The rack covers the water, then there is a cover 
to the sterilizer, so that the heat is confined, and the desired 
temperature sooner 
reached. 

Sample of the 
Hygeia nursing bottle 
furnishedon appli- 
cation. Write for liter- 
ature in reference to 
these unique inventions. 

Manufactured by HYGEIA NURSING BOTTLE CO., Buffalo, N. Y. 




the water, 
the food. 




515 



THE "NEAL" 

PORTABLE RUBBER 
BATHTUB FOR CHILDREN 




This unique and pretty little Sanitary Bathing Apparatus for 
Infants is one of the best and most useful bathtubs on the 
market. It has been in active use over fifteen years and 
has found its way into some of the finest Nurseries on both 
continents. The "Neal" Bathtub has been successfully 
used in place of an incubator for premature and delicate 
babies. By wrapping the infant in soft woolen blankets 
and placing hot-water bags around the child, the rubber 
keeps its uniform heat, and at the same time insures 
plenty of fresh air, and is of easy access to Physician and 
Nurse. This has been successfully tried in a number of 
cases. The inventor of this little bathtub is a graduate of 
the New York City Hospital Training School for Nurses. 
For further particulars send for catalogue and price list to 
Miss S. C. NEAL, Patentee and Manufacturer, 114 FIFTH 
AVENUE, New York City, U. S. A. 



616 




Good 

Nurses 

and 

Careful 

Mothers 



are particular about 
using no other but 



MENNEN'SfiL^ViS TOILET POWDER 



because it is freely recommended above all others by physi- 
cians everywhere. MENNEN'S is the safest and purest of 
Toilet Powders. It not only smooths the skin but soothes 
the skin, not only hides roughness and rawness,' but heals 
them. It enables you to easily retain that pleasing appearance 
of fresh cleanliness. 

Guaranteed by G. Mennen Chemical Co. under the Food 
and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906, Serial No. 154'3. 



For Sale Everirwhere, or by Mall for 25 Cents, Postpaid 
Sample Box for 4-cent Stamp 

MENNEN'S Borated Skin Soap (blue 
\VTapper) should be used always in con- 
nection with MENNEN'S Borated Tal- 
cum Toilet Powder, -for the health of 
the skin. For sale everywhere, or by 
mail for 25 cents, postpaid. Samplo 
cake for 4 cents. 

GERHARD MENNEN CO., 

517 




Newark, N. J. 



BOOKS THAT NUItSES KEEP 

PRACTICAL POINTS IN ANESTHESIA 

Bv FKEDKRICK-EMIL NEEF, B. S., B. L., M. L., M. D., NE^V YORK 

This very practical monograph presents the author's impressiODs on the correct 
use of chloroform, eiher, etc., and is a. simple and coherent working method. 
Among the subjects covered are: 

Induction of Aneatheala VomltliiK during Anesthesia Recession of Tongue after Nar- 

CardlHc and Bespiratoi-y Cnllnpse Obetrucled Brentliing cokIb 

When Bliall tlie Patluiit bu Duularud Uno of the Breathing Tube Poat-Operatlve DIstrosR 

Ready for Operation ludicationH for Stimulation Minor Aut^utheBla with Ethyl, 

Maintenance of the Surgical Plane Infiimncc* ofMorphlrit> on Nnrcoais Chloride 

of AneBthiisla General Course of Aueathesia Intubation, Anesthesia 

Important ReHexea Awakening £tc.. Etc. 

It is of especial value to those general practitioners and nurses who are so situated 
that the services of an expert anesthetist can not be secured. 

This extremely practical and useful little book is condensed to about fifty pages, 
but every page Is replete with valuable data. Printed upon heavy india tint 
special Cheltenham paper with Cheltenham type, with marginal headings in con- 
trasting colored ink. 

Regular Ifidition, Sem! de Luxe, cloth binding, stamped in gold, 
Price, 60 Cents, PoMtpald. 

Special Full Xilltrury de J^uxe Xldlilon, liexible ooze leather bound, with 
gold edges, stamped in gold, $1.50, postpaid. 

700 SURGICAL SUGGESTIONS 

By dr. WALTER M. BRICKNER 
Assistant Adjunct Surgeon Mount Slnni Hoapltal, and Chief of Surgical Department Mount Slnal 
Hospital Dispensary, New York ; Kditor-in-Chief American Journal uf Surgery, 
ANn 
DR. E. MOSCHCOWiTZ 
Assistant FhyRician Mount Slnal Hospital Diapensary, New York ; 
AHSociattt Editor American Journal ol Surgery, 
lu this, the third edition, while we could not improve tbe quality, we have 
increased the number of " Suggestions, " making this book, we believe, the most 
complete, practical and useful manual of surgical suggestions, practical diagnos- 
tic hints and useful therapeutic wrinkles ever produced. 

Regular Kdltlon, cloth, Semi de Luxe, stamped in gold. Printed upon heavy 
india tint paper with Cheltenham type, marginal headings in contrasting ink. 
Price, »1.00, postpaid. 
Special Full r.lbrary Sdltlon de l.uxe, limp ooze leather binding, artisti- 
cally lined, stamped in gold, with gold edges, SS.SS, postpaid. 

Every Norse should read the book 

PLASTER OF PARIS AND HOW TO USE IT 

By martin W. ware, M, D; 

Adjunct Attending Snrgeon Mount Slnal Hospital, New York ; Surgeon to the Good Samaritan 
Dispensary ; Instructor In Surgery New York PoBt-Graduate Medical School. 

This Is one of the most useful books ever presented, not only on account of the 
general demand for the Information and instr< ction upon the subject which this 
book so explicitly, practically and comprehensively covers, but because this knowl- 
edge was not previously available except from such a large experience as enjoyed 
by Dr. Ware, or. In part, by reference to many books on allied subjects. 

It Is a concise narrative, PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED, of the many uses to which Plaster of Paris la 
adaptable in Surgery. 

The whole subject, fi-om the making of the bandage to Its use as a support in every form of splint, 
corset or dressing, Is graphically described and Illustrated. 

The book is presented in the artistic manner characteristic of the productions of 
the Surgery Publishing Company, 

It is printed v/pon coated book paper and attractively boundin lieavy red buckram, 
stumped in white leaf and gold. 

Price, 91.00, postpaid 

12mo. 72 llluatratiiina. 

Si>eclal Fdltlon de rtuxc, ooze leather, gold edges and stamped, SS.OO. 

SURGERY PUBLISHING CO. 

J. MacDON ALD. Jr., M.D..Presldent, 92 WiUlam St., N. Y.. V. S. A. 

518 



THE 



Gazette Pocket Speller and Def iner 



{Second^ Revised Edition) 




THIS uniqae Tolume 
is a combined Kog- 
liEh and Medical JJic- 
iiorery. It is a marvel 
cf Cc-rrectness, Com- 
pactness and Complete- 
ness. Bound in leather 
and gilt. 



REVIEWS 

An extremely conveni- 
ent little manual. 

—Med. Record. 

A very convenient vest- 
pocket reference book" 
^Journal Am. Med. 
Assn. 

Tt is certain to be popu- 
lar. — Mass. Med. Jour- 
nal. 

It surpasses all the 
smaller d ictionaries 
pablished. 

—Med. Brief, 

It is remarkably com- 
plete, condensed and 
comprehensive.— 
(ONE-FOURTH SIZE) Atlanta Constitution. 

PRIC£, 60 CENTS 

Send for Specitnen Pages and Other Particulars 

THE QAZGTTB PUBLISHINQ CO. 

36 We«t 4ad Street New York City 



519 



Of Interest to the Super= 
intendent and Nurse 

JOURNAL COMBINATION OFFERS 

THE FOLLOWINQ OFFERS APPLY 
TO NEW SUBSCRIBERS ONLY 

THE TRAINED NURSE ($2.00) and one 
copy of Pattee's "PRACTICAL DIE- 
TETICS" ($1.50) $3.00 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF NURS- 
ING ($2.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
"PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. $3.00 

THE DIETETIC AND HYGIENIC GA- 
ZETTE ($1.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
"PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. $2.00 

THE CANADIAN NURSE ([$1.25) and 
one copy of Pattee's "PRACTICAL 
DIETETICS" ($1.50) $2.25 

THE NURSE'S JOURNAL OF THE 
PACIFIC COAST ($1.50) and one copy 
of Pattee's "PRACTICAL DIE- 
TETICS" ($1.50) $2.50 

THE NATIONAL HOSPITAL RECORD 

($1.25) and one copy of Pattee's "PRAC- 
TICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50) $2.25 

A. F. Pattee 

134 South First Avenue 
Mt. Vernon, N. Y 



530 



1874 TRADE (PAVOO "^"'^ 1910 



A NECESSITY IN EVERY HOME 

^"^ SICK ROOM 




Cautery Sets 
Commode Seat 
Complexion Bulb 
Dental Dam 
Diapers 
Dilators 
Cup_ping- Cups 
Sanitary Covers 
Sheetine 

Stomacn Evacuator 
Stomach Tubes 
Stoppers 
Breast Pipes 
Breast Pumps 
Breast Shierds 
Kace Hoods 



DAVOL 



TRADE MARK 



"HOUSEHOLD" 

(registered) 



Face Bottles 

Finger Cots 

Fountain Syringe Bags 

Teething Pads 

Teething Rings 

Vaporizers 

Water Bags 

Water Beds 

Water Bottles 

Water Caps 

Woman's Delight 

Tourniquets 

Tubing 

Turkish Bath Cushioos 

.Umbilical Belts 



RUBBER 
GOODS 



Urinals 
Rectal Tubes 
Bathing Caps 



WE make everything for the " Household " 
in Rubber Goods and the largest and best 
line of Atomizers on the market. 



Bulb Enemas 

Bed Pans 

Throat Water Bag^ 



Insist on having a DAVOL WATER BOTTLE 

and a DAVOL FOUNTAIN SYRINGE and 

NOT-" SOMETHING JUST AS GOOD" 



Syringe Pipes 

Syringe Shut Offs 

Syringe Tubing 

Syringes — Aural 

Syringes— Bag 

Syringes— Bulb 

Syringes — Combined Fountain 

Syringes— Eye and Ear 

Syri nges — Fountain 

Syringes — Gem 

Sjrringes— Infant 

Syringes— Ladies 

Syringes — Nasal 

Syringes -Rectal 

Syringes— Si x-Ounce Bulb 

Syringes — Urethral 

Syringes — Ulcer and Ear 

Syringes- Vaginal Douche 

Abdominal Coils SEE that the Name /srrrj^rr^ 

^;lmoVs i3 on every article you ^^VOL) 

Aprons purchase for home use . trade mark 

Atomizers - ^^^^^^— — -_ 



Gem Cleansers 

Gloves 

Head Coils 

Hospital Cushions 

Hospital Air Cushions 

Household Syringes 

Ho^usehold Ladies' Syringe 

Household Vaginal Douche 

Ice Bags 

Ice Caps 

Invalid lUngs 

Irrigating Tubes 

Kelly's Operating Cushions 

Kidney Pads 

Ladies' Syringes 

Medicine Droppers 



Neck Pillow 

Nipple Shields 
Nipples 

Nursing Bottle Fittings 
Nursery Sheeting 
Obstetrical Cushions 
Chair Cushions 
Chemists' Covers 
Chemists' Culture Caps 
Chemists* Stoppers 
Colon Tubes 
Pessaries 
Pile Pipe 
Pillow Vents 
Plant Sprinklers 
Plaster Bowls 
Politzer Bags 
Powder Blowers- 
Bandage Gum 
Bandages 
Basin, Folding 
Bath Tubs 
Bath Spray 



OXIDKR KROM YOUR DRUGGUST 

DAVOL RUBBER COMPANY 



MANUFACTURERS OF 

STRICTLY HIGH-GRADE RUBBER GOODS FOR THE 
PROVIDENCE, R. I., U. S. A. 

521 



HOUSEHOLD" 



jfilycoXhymolme 




CmRRML 
CONDITIONS 

NASAL^THROar 
INTESTINAL 
STOMACH, RECTAL 
>&UTERO-VAGINALr 

KRESS &c OWEN COMPANY 
210 Fulton it..'New YorKjj 



522 



Is a Perfect Antiseptic Plastic Dressing 

From the moment its constituent parts go into tlie sterilized com- 
pounding machine, the Antiphlogistine is not touched by human hands 
until the nurse removes it from the can for bedside application, thus 
keeping it free from bacteria. Antiphlogistine has superseded the old- 
fashioned, germ-laden flaxseed poultice in treating such conditions as 
Boils, Sprains, Felons, Ulcers, Superficial Burns, Croup, Mumps, Ton- 
sillitis and Laryngitis, as well as in deep-seated inflammations, like 
Pneumonia, Pleurisy, Bronchitis and Peritonitis. 




The nurse should heat Antiphlogistine by partially immersing the 
can in boiling water until the product is as hot as can be comfortably 
borne by the patient. Then it should be thickly applied directly to the 
skin and covered by a plentiful amount of absorbent cotton and a ban- 
dage. The dressing should be renewed, if necessary, when it will peel 
off readily, usually in 24 hours. 

Antiphlogistine can be applied to any part of the body, and, being 
antiseptic, can be used on abraded surfaces to advantage. 

UPON RECEIPT OF A NURSE'S PROFESSIONAL CARD, A PAD 
OF NURSE'S CLINICAL REPORT BLANKS WILL BE SENT. 

THE DENVER CHEMICAL MT'G CO.. NEW YORK 

533 



Hotel Martha 
Washington 

29 East 29th Street 
New York 

EXCLUSIVELY FOR WOMEN 

450 Rooms en suite and single. 

$1.50 per day and up. 
European plan. Telephone in 
every room. Numerous baths 
on each floor free to guests. 
Caters to women especially trav- 
elling or visiting New York alone. 
Convenient to surface and sub- tpi 
Way transportation, theatre and 
shopping districts. 

RESTAURANT AND TEA 
ROOM FOR LADIES 
AND GENTLEMEN 

Cuisine exceptionally good 

Absolutely fireproof. 

A. W. EAGER 
524 



Eighteen Splendid 
Trains 

San Francisco "Overland Limited" — Electric-lighted. Only 

three days Chicago to San Francisco. Leaves Chicagfo 7.00 

p. m. daily, Chicago, Union Pacific CSl» North Western Line/ 
The Los Angeles Limited — Electric-lighted. Leaves Chicago 

10.16 p. m. daily. Arrives Los Angreles 4.30 p. m. the third day. 

Chicago CS. North 'Western Ry., Union Paciftc R. R. and Salt 

Lake Route. 
The Ore(£on- Washington Limited — Electric-lighted. Leaves 

Chicago 10.16 p. m. daily. Arrives Portland 8.00 p. m. the third 

day. Only 72 hours enroute. Chicago, Union Pacific CSk 

North "Western Line. 
The China and Japan Fast Mail — Leaves Chicago daily at 10.45 

p. m. for Denver, Portland, San Francisco and Los Angeles. 
The "'Denver Special" — Electric-lighted. Only one night to 

Denver. Leaves Chicago 6.00 p. m. daily. Chicago, Union 

Pacific and North W^estern Line. 
The Duluth Superior Limited — Electric-lighted. Daily Chicago 

to Superior and Duluth. Leaves Chicago 6.25 p. m. 
The North Western Limited — Electric-lighted. Daily between 

Chicago, St. Paul and Minneapolis. Leaves Chicago 6.35 p. m. 
The St. Paul and Minneapolis Express — Electric-lighted daily 

train between Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Uuluth. 

Leaves Chicago 10.10 p. m. 
The Iron and Copper Country Express — Electric-lighted. Daily 

to the Lake Superior Iron and Copper Country. Leaves 

Chicago 6.30 p. m. (Connects at Appleton Jet. for Ashland.) 
The North Shore Special — One of twenty-four daily trains be- 
tween Chicago and Milwaukee. Leaves Chicago 8.00 p. m. 
The Ashland Limited — Daily between Chicago and Ashland, 

Wis. Leaves Chicago 5.00 p. m. 
The Bad|£er State Express — Daily to St. Paul and Minneapolis. 

Daylight ride through picturesque W^isconsin. Leaves 

Chicagocg.30 a. m. 
The Wisconsin Special — Leaves Chicago 3.00 p. m. for Green Bay 

and Menominee. 
Menominee and Escanaba Express — Leaves Chicago 9.00 a m. 

for Green Bay, Menominee and Escanaba. 
The Black Hills Express — Chicago to the Black Hills and Hot 

Springs, daily, via Omaha, at 10.45 p. m. 
Minnesota and Black Hills Express — Betv^een Chicago and 

the Black Hills and Hot Springs, via Pierre and the P., R. C. 

Ca. N. W. Ry. Leaves Chicago daily 8.04 p. m. 
Minnesota and Dakota Special — Between Chicago and Pierre,Hot 

Springs and the Black Hills. Leaves Chicago daily 8.30 a. m. 
The Omaha and Sioux City Llmlted^ — Electric-lighted. Daily 

train to Omaha and Sioux City. Leaves Chicago 6.05 p. m. 

Other fast trains to Illinois, Iowa, Pf^isconsin. north- 
ern Mirhigan, Minnesota, North and South Dakota, 
Nebraska, IVyoming and the Black Hills. 

A. C. JOHNSON 

Passenger Traffic Manager, C. & N. W. By, 
Chicago, III. 
525 




Pattee's 
Hand-Bag Diet Book 

Consisting of 

Measures and Weights, Recipes 
and Hospital Dietaries 

RBPRINTBD FROM 

Pattee's "Practical Dietetics with 
Reference to Diet in Disease" 

AT the request of a large number of nurses 
/-\ these extracts from the Sixth Edition of 
■^ -^ Pattee's "Practical Dietetics with Refer- 
ence to Diet in Disease " have been collated into 
a small book, suitable for the nurse's hand-bag. 
It is bound in heavy paper and is sold only 
to nurses, purchasers of the complete edition. 
Those who do not purchase both the complete- 
book and the Hand- Bag Diet Book at the same 
time can obtain the latter only when the coupon 
on the opposite page is forwarded to the publisher 
or bookseller from whom book was purchased 
and is accompanied by the nurse's professional 
card or hospital order and the price of the 
book. Orders will not be filled unless these 
instructions are followed. 

Price of the complete Sixth Edition of Pattee's 
"Practical Dietetics" ($1.50 postpaid) with one 
copy Pattee's Hand-Bag Diet Book, $1 .75 postpaid. 
This booklet is not published for general circula- 
tion, simply for the convenience of the nurse for 
her hand-bag equipment. 



536 



COUPON 



This coupon entitles any nurse who is the 
possessor of the Sixth Edition of Pattee's " Practical 
Dietetics " to purchase one copy of Pattee's Hand- 
Bag Diet Book. 

Send this coupon with your professional card 
or hospital order and 30 cents to the publisher or to 
the bookdealer from whom the book was purchased, 
and a copy will be forwarded postpaid. 

A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 
Mount Vernon New York 



Na 



Address- 



527 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






I 



feamarfi mefiical School 
Xlbtac? 




O^yO^^ 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 
WITH REFERENCE TO 
DIET IN DISEASE j» j» 



PRACTICAL 



DIETETICS 



\7ITH REFERENCE TO 

DIET IN DISEASE 



BY 

ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 

Gndoace, Department of Household Arts, State Normal School. 

Framingham, Mass* 

Late Instructor in Dietetics, Bellevue Training School for Nurses, 
Bellevue Hospital, New YorlL City. 

Former Instructor at Mount Sinai, Hahnemann, and the Flower 

Hospital Training Schools for Nurses, New York City; 

Lakeside, St. Mary's, Trinity, and Wisconsin Training 

Schools for Nurses, Milwaukee, Wis.; St. Joseph's 

Hospital, Chicago, III. ; St. Vincent de Paul 

Hospital, Brockville, Ontario, Canada. 



SIXTH EDITION 

Revised and Enlarged 

Price $1.50 




A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 

Mount Vernon, New York 
1910 



0D>> 



« 






Set up, electrotyped, printed, and copyrighted, June, 1903 
Reprinted July, 1904, February, 190S, October, 1906. and November, 190S 
Revised, reset, and recopyrighted December, 19x0 



Copyright, 1903, 1904. 1905, 1910, by 
ALIDA FRANCES PATTEE 



Entered at Stationers' Hall 
/i/l rights reserved 



TLo tbe XCraine& 'Wuree: 
TKnboee ^ail^ life \9 a 
bleeeind to bumanitis 



PEEFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION 

The very gratifying demand for this work has necessitated 
the preparation of a sixth edition. Advantage has been 
taken of this opportunity to revise the book and incorporate, 
as far as space allows, the latest results of research in die- 
tetics. To meet the growing tendency of physicians to pre- 
scribe the exact fuel value of a diet, the total energy value 
of each recipe has been calculated wherever data as to com- 
position of materials used are available, or the quantities 
of materials used are fairly constant. A table has also been 
introduced in which the food value of the materials used in 
the recipes is given. This will be useful in computing other 
food combinations, and in calculating the amount of protein, 
fat or carbohydrates in any dietary, whenever required, with- 
out the tedious mathematical processes usually involved in 
such operations. 

It is hoped that a revised classification of food principles, 
greater emphasis on the value of mineral matter in the diet, 
and fuller discussion of the fundamental principles of nutri- 
tion, will add much to the usefulness of the book. 

In the introduction are presented outlines showing the re- 
quirements in dietetics of the various State Boards of Ex- 
aminers of Nurses, and the contents of the book have been 
rearranged to correspond directly with these requirements. 
This will materially aid the dietitian in arranging the course 
of study for the nurse so as to prepare her adequately for her 
State Examinations. 

Many years of experience as an instructor in dietetics in 
hospitals seem to the author to demonstrate that the "recipe 
book," so-called, should not be separate from the volume 
on "theory." Both theoretical and practical work should be 

• • 

Vll 



▼iii PREFACE 

treated together, otherwise, while the subjects are naturally 
closely allied, the young student becomes confused and is not 
apt to apply the theory to the practice. In this book she 
cannot read a recipe without having her attention called to 
its function in nutrition. Furthermore, for convenience 
sake, the two should be combined in one book of moderate 
size. One hundred and fifty pages have been added to this 
edition with but little increase in bulk. 

I take pleasure in acknowledging the valuable assistance 
rendered by Dr. Mary D. Swartz Eose, Assistant Professor 
of Household Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University, 
New York, in the preparation of this edition; also again to 
express my thanks for valuable material used in the book to 
Mrs. Ellen H. Richards, Dr. W. Oilman Thompson, Dr. Max 
Einhorn, Dr. Henry Koplik, Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Dr. Louis 
Starr, Dr. Frederick C. Shattuck, Dr. Elbridge 0. Cutler, Dr. 
Elliott P. Joslin, Dr. Harry W. Ooodall and Dr. Maynard 
Ladd. 

Alida Frances Pattee. 

New York, December, 1910. 

Extract Fegm Pbeface to Fifth Edition 

I have been particularly pleased to see " Practical Dietet- 
ics ^* accepted as a text-book by so many educational and other 
authorities. Thus it is to be found in all hospitals of the 
United States Army; it has been recommended for use by all 
the various State Boards of Examiners of Nurses that have 
thus far been appointed; it has been adopted by the military 
authorities in Canada for the Permanent Schools of Instruc- 
tion for the Militia, and it has also been added to the Author- 
ized Text Book list of the New York City and Boston Public 
Schools. 

New York, November, 1908. 



PEEFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

The very cordial reception of the first edition of Practical 
Dietetics has encouraged a second presentation. 

In the preparation of the second issue the original matter 
has been thoroughly revised, and important additions made. 

For valuable material I am indebted to the following 
physicians, hospitals and publishers, and gratefully acknowl- 
edge their assistance and kind permission accorded by them 
to quote their several diets. 

Dr. W. Oilman Thompson, Professor of Medicine in the 
Cornell University Medical College in New York City and 
visiting physician to the Presbyterian and Bellevue Hos- 
pitals : 

Dr. Max Einhorn, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the 
New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, vis- 
iting physician to the German Dispensary: 

Dr. Henry Koplik, attending physician Mount Sinai Hos- 
pital, ex-president of the American Paediatric Society: 

.Dr. L. Emmett Holt, Professor of Diseases of Children 
in the College of Physicians and Surgeons (Colimibia Uni- 
versity), attending physician at the Babies* Hospital and 
Foundling Hospital, New York : 

Dr. Louis Starr, Consulting Paediatrist to the Maternity 
Hospital, Philadelphia; late Clinical Professor of Diseases 
of Children in the Hospital of the University of Pennsyl- 
vania : 

Dr. Frederick 0. Shattuck, Professor of Clinical Medicine 
in Harvard University, visiting physician Massachusetts Gen- 
eral Hospital: 

Dr. Elbridge 6. Cutler, Instructor in Theory and Prac- 
tice at Harvard Medical School, visiting physician Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital: 

ix 



X PREFACE 

Dr. Nathan Smith Davis, late Dean Northwestern Uni- 
versity Medical School, Chicago: 

Bellevue Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Presby- 
terian Hospital, the Society of Lying-in Hospital (New 
York), Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston: 

D. Appleton & Co., Blakiston & Co., William Wood & 
Co., and the publisher of the Dietetic and Hygienic Gazette: 

And sincere thanks are due Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards (In- 
structor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology) for aid and information, also for permission to 
quote from the Eumford Kitchen Leaflets. 

A. F. Pattee, 

New York, July, 1904. 



PEEPACE TO THE PIRST EDITION 

As instructor of dietetics at various hospitals I have con- 
stantly felt the need of a simple manual and text-book* for 
the use of the nurse in the classroom. 

None could be found which fulfilled the requirements as 
to simplicity, brevity, and exactness, with reference to dietetic 
treatment in disease. 

This same need has been expressed by mothers and nurses 
outside of the hospital. 

In the following pages I have endeavored to meet this 
need by giving the result of knowledge gained during the 
past eight years of practical classwork experience in hospitals 
of different cities. 

The preparation of food is a science as well as an art, the 
chemistry of which is as precise as the chemistry of the 
laboratory. When we are willing to be as exact and care- 
ful in this work as we are in chemical experiments, our suc- 
cess will become a certainty. No other technical art can, with 
so little practical knowledge, go as far in simplifying that 
which is otherwise complicated and laborious, or do more 
toward accomplishing that which is a chief result of all 
science — adding to the comfort and happiness of the human 
race. 

A. P. Pattee. 

New York, July, 1903. 



XI 



INTEODUCTION 

In response to the many requests of Superintendents of 
Training Schools and Dietitians for an outline of the va- 
rious State Board Eequirements in Dietetics, I herewith 
quote with permission the following outlines of courses of 
study recommended by the American Hospital Association, 
New York, Minnesota, Illinois and Colorado State Boards 
of Examiners of Nurses. Answers to all questions are to 
be found in this book. Eequirements of other States when 
issued will be added in each new edition of '^ Practical 
Dietetics.^^ 

These outlines will prove of assistance to the Dietitian in 
arranging her course of study for the nurse, and will also 
prove suggestive to the nurse in preparing for her State 
Examinations. 

Through the kindness of the various State Boards of 
Examiners of Nurses I am also able to quote the examination 
questions of various States. 

CouBSE OF Study in Dietetics Abranged by the Amebjcan 

Hospital Association 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics: Classification of foods, care of foods, cooking of foods^ 
serving of foods. 

FiBST Year 

Tray setting and food serving; feeding the helpless and delirious 
patients; management of liquid diet. 

Second and Thibd Yeab 

Milk modification for infants according to different formulse; also 
for fever patients and invalids. " It is recommended that continued 
and special attention be given throughout the second year, to 
dietetics, hygiene and the management of special diseases." 

• • • 

Xlll 



xiv INTRODUCTION 

Second Yeab Theobeticai« Work 
Foods and food value; eight to fourteen hours. 

Third Yeab Pbactical Work 

Diet kitchen practice, including the modification of milk, one to 
two months. 

Course of Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Colorado Stats 

Board 

Dietetics 

FOOD — DEFINITION — CLASSIFICATION • 

1. Organic — 

a. Proteids. 

b. Fats. 

c. Carbohydrates. 

2. Inorganic — 

a. Water. 

b. Salts. 

3. The uses of foods in disease. 

4. Practical work should be given in at least twelve (12) lessons 

and should include plain and fancy cooking for in- 
valids. 

5. Pupils should be familiar with the text of either Pattee, Farmer 

or equivalent. 

Course op Study in Dietetics Arranged by the Illinois State 

BOABD 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics 

Second Four Weeks 

Simple nourishments. Hospital diet lists. Times of feeding. 
Methods of feeding. Preparation of the following, to be served to 
patients : 

Milk, cold and hot. Malted milk, cold and hot. Lemonade. 
Beer. Gruel. Egg-nog. Orangeade. Root Beer. Soda-pop. Buttei> 
milk. Fruit Juices. Broth. 

FjRST Yeab 
Diet Cooking: 12 practical demonstrations, 2 hours each. 



INTRODUCTION xv 

CouBSE or Study in Dietetics Arkanged bt the Minnesota Stats 

BOABD 

SECOND YEAR 

Dietetics 
Theoretical Work 

(Anatomy and Physiology of digestion. Review subject as al- 
ready given in Anatomy, i. e. — mechanical and chemical processes, 
absorption, assimilation, metabolism, elimination.) 

Food — definition of, source, function, composition, classification 
and food adjuncts. 

Water — minerals, fats and oils, carbohydrates and proteids, each 
studied as to their composition, food value, digestion and compara- 
tive values. 

General principles to be observed in cooking of starcb, meat, eggs, 
poultry, game, fish, cereals and vegetables. 

Practical Work 

Dietetics — 24 two-hour lessons — individual class work under 
dietitian. (15 minutes to theory and remainder of period to prac- 
tical work.) 

Practical work to include the proper methods of preparing and 
serving: Coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate, beef juice, beef broth, chicken 
broth, oyster broth, egg-nog, albumin, milk. Cream soups (tomato, 
corn, celery, pea). Toast, crotLtons, pulled bread. Bread — graham, 
wheat, whole wheat, gluten, nut. Light desserts — cornstarch, gela- 
tin, ices, ice cream, baked apples. Eggs — soft-boiled, poached, 
creamed, custard, omelet. Beefsteak, lamb chops, roast beef, roast 
lamb, bacon, sweetbreads, scraped beef. Chicken and game. Baked 
and broiled whitefish, halibut, bass, brook trout, oysters. Rice, oat- 
meal, cream of wheat, rolled oats. Potatoes — baked, boiled, 
creamed, escalloped and stuffed. Fruits — stewed and fresh. Sal- 
ads — French salad dressing, cooked salad dressing, mayonnaise. 
Vegetables. 

Course op Study in Dietetics Arranged by the New York State 

Board 

PRELIMINARY TERM 

Dietetics, 14 hours 

Theory 

Water: source, function, varieties of drinking water, source of 
disease. 

Beverages: tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate; history and growth of 
plants; composition, nutritive value; physiological effects. 



xvi INTRODUCTION 

Constituents of milk: care and preservation; bacteria in milk; ef- 
fects of heat on milk; adulteration — digestibility; value of skinuned 
milk; whey, buttermilk, cheese. 

Infant feeding: comparison of human and cow's milk; modifica- 
tion of milk; certified milk; capacity of infant's stomach; symp- 
toms considered in regulating the feeding of infants. 

Practical 

Care of dining-room, gas range, cooking utensils, ice box and con- 
tents. 

Preparation of trays; how to make them attractive; how to serve; 
quantity, quality and temperature of food; how to feed helpless 
patients. 

Beverages: water, tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, wines, fruit juices, 
malted milk, prepared foods. 

Milk: pasteurizing, sterilizing, modification, kumyss, buttermilk 
(artificial) and whey. 

Eggs in various forms as liquid diet; gruels. 

Milk and eggs as food; custards; junket; white sauce; cottage 
cheese. 

INTERMEDIATE TERM, FIRST HALF 
Dietetics, 10 two-hour lessons (under dietitian) 

Theoretical 

Digestion and absorption: review subject of digestion as already 
given in anatomy, i. e., mechanical and chemical processes, absorp- 
tion, assimilation, metabolism, elimination of waste. 

Food: source, function, food adjuncts, definition of food, compo- 
sition, classification. 

Mineral matter: source and function. 

Carbohydrates: why so called, source, function, nutritive value. 

General principle in cooking cereals, vegetables, fruits, nuts and 
sugars. 

Eggs: composition; test for freshness; digestibility; nutritive val- 
ues; effects of temperature; advantages and disadvantages in use. 

Meat: composition; nutritive value; effect of hot and cold water; 
comparative value of tea and broth; raw compared with cooked; 
organs used as food; gelatin. 

Poultry: game. 

Fish: classes; composition; signs of freshness; care of fish; nutri- 
tive value; digestibility. 

Mollusks: crustaceans. 

Fats and oils: source, animal and vegetable; function; digestibil- 
ity; comparative value as fuel food. 



INTRODUCTION xvii 

Practical 

Toast; cereals; cornstarch; macaroni; rice; sandwiches. 

Starchy vegetables, legumes. 

Green vegetables, salads, dressings (cream and oily). 

Fruit, fresh and cooked; fruit puddings. 

Soups, stock and creamy; broths. 

Broiled meats, giving cuts. 

Chicken and game. 

Fish, shell and scaly. 

Frozen desserts; sponge cake; wafers. 

If the pupils are not assigned to a term of service in the diet 
kitchen, practice in preparing and serving full meals should be given 
in connection with this series of lessons. 

SENIOR TERM 

Dietetics 

Theory, at least 6 hcmra 

Diet in childhood. 

Diet in disease. 

Food values. 

Comparison of animal, vegetable and mixed diets. 

Calculating dietaries. 

Planning menus. 

Practical 

During the term the nurse in charge of wards should make prac- 
tical application of the theory of dietetics and study food ordered 
for patients under her care, in connection with the cases for which 
it is ordered. 

State Examination Questions in dietetics 

COLORADO 
1909 

1. Mention one good nutritive enema. 

2. What is included under the head of liquid diet? 

3. How do you make albumin water? 

4. What is the appearance of healthy beef; chicken; fish? 

5. How would you feed a typhoid patient the first week he gets 
solid food? 

6. Describe all the correct methods you know of preparing food 
for the sick. 

7. What is important in cooking starchy foods? 

8. What foods contain the most albumin? 

9. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 



xviii INTRODUCTION 

10. Have you had any special training in dietetics? Of what did 
it consist? Name one book on dietetics. Do you own a book on 
dietetics ? 

CONNECTICUT 

Dietetics and Hygiene 

June, 1909 

1. Name the different classes into which food may be divided. 

2. Name two animal and two vegetable foods which contain fat. 

3. Prepare a day's menu for a patient, excluding starchy foods 
as far as possible, while giving a variety. 

4. What useful function may be performed by the indigestible 
parts of vegetables? 

5. Show why a mixed diet is advisable. 

6. Give one method of predigesting milk. 

7. Prepare a day's menu of at least six meals for a patient with 
mild fever, excluding milk, but giving as much variety as per- 
missible in a fluid diet. 

8. What are sweetbreads, and how would you prepare and serve 
them ? 

9. Why is a thorough cooking especially important in cereal foods 
and not in flesh foods? 

10. Write the rules for preparing three desserts you would use 
in feeding a typhoid fever patient during convalescence. 

11. Give a list of fruits you would recommend for their laxative 
effect. 

January, 1909 

1. Give a brief description of the care of glass drinking tubes 
used by typhoid patients. 

2. Give recipe for (1) partial peptonisation of milk; (2) junket. 

3. Mention the foods allowed according to the following classifi- 
cation: (l)Liquid; (2) Soft; (3) Light. 

4. How would you render the following sterile: (1) Woolen 
blankets; (2) Cotton sheets; (3) Rubber catheters; (4) Your 
hands ? 

5. In making up modification of milk give in detail from the 
time you receive the milk until you give it to the infant the pre- 
cautions you would take to keep certified milk pure. 

6. Tell what you know of either tea or coffee, its production, 
preparation, use and abuse. 

7. What cuts of beef would you select for the following purposes : 
(1) Beef juice; (2) Roast beef ; (3) A tender steak? 

8. What action has prolonged cooking on (1) starch grains; (2) 
albumin ? 



INTRODUCTION xix 

9. What different methods would you employ in cooking chicken 
for (1) broths; (2) fricassee? Why? 

10. Give minute details of your care of the linen used on the 
bed of a scarlet fever patient. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

1908 

1. Name three food-stuffs rich in albumin in the order of their 
importance. 

2. Describe process of digestion and absorption of albuminoids. 

3. What is the object of cooking vegetables and of cooking 
meats ? ^ 

4. Give frequency of feeding patient on liquid diet and on plain 
diet; why the difference? 

5. Name any two diseased conditions which may be brought 
about by dietetic error; state how? 

1909 

1. Name the different classes of food-stuffs and give an example 
of each. 

2. What are the chief ingredients in fruits? 

3. Describe the action of the gastric juice on food. 

4. State the length of time required to cook properly the fol- 
lowing cereals: rolled oats, rice, and cornmeal mush. 

5. Give the two complete food products furnished by the animal 
kingdom. 

NEW YORK 

1907 

1. What effect has cooking on meat? 

2. Give recipe for veal broth made from a half pound of veal. 

3. State the length of time required to cook properly the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, Irish oatmeal, steamed rice, cornmeal mush. 

4. How would you make a flour ball? 

5. Give recipe for making an oyster stew containing a pint of 
oysters. 

6. How would you determine whether or not an egg is fresh? 

7. Which is more quickly digested, a raw egg or a soft-boiled 
egg't Why? 

8. Give a recipe for egg sandwich. 

9. Give the general rules for making custards. 

10. How would you bake a banana and prepare it for a patient? 



XX INTRODUCTION 

1908 

1. What are the uses of water in the body? 

2. Name three vegetable acids. 

3. Give three examples of foods in which starch is found. 

4. Of what value is sugar as food? 

5. Give three examples of food containing fat. 

6. What hygienic effect has heat on milk? 

7. How should an egg be boiled? How should it be served to 
an invalid? 

8. How would you make a raw beef sandwich? 

9. Why is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked ? 

10. Give recipe for lemon jelly. 

11. Outline a breakfast for a convalescent man. 

12. Outline a dinner for a convalescent woman. 

13. Give recipe for creamy rice pudding. 

14. Of what value are fruits as food? 

15. What are the requirements of food for a fever patient in 
order that proper nourishment may be obtained? 

1909 

1. What is meant by predigested food? 

2. What effect on the system has hot water when taken in- 
ternally ? 

3. What effect has sterilization on milk? 

4. What is condensed milk? State its value as a food. 

5. How is limewater made? 

6. What is farinaceous diet? 

7. W^hat are the most important food products derived from the 
vegetable kingdom? 

8. State the effect of coffee on the system? 

9. What are concentrated foods? State their chief use. 

10. State the food value of green vegetables. 

11. What are the diet requirements in anaemia? 

12. Mention some factors, apart from proper diet, that specially 
affect the digestion. 

13. Name some diseases that may be caused by the following er- 
rors in diet: (a) insufficient food; (b) overeating; (c) lack of fresh 
food; (d) improperly balanced diet. 

14. What are the reasons for limiting the diet of a young child 
to certain foods? 

15. What changes in diet should be made in advanced years? 
Why? 



INTRODUCTION xxi 

NORTH CAROLINA 

1908 

1. In what foods are ptomaine poisoning most likely to be found? 
How may this be avoided? 

2. What can you say of the effect of long or second cooking of 
albuminous foods? State whether or not this increases their di- 
gestibility. 

3. Give a list of the easily-digested meats, (a) Describe method 
of cooking one of these, (b) Name those you would not give an 
invalid, giving reasons. 

4. Give a list of foods you have been accustomed to giving con- 
valescents from typhoid fever,, between the liquid and full diet 
period. 

5. What foods have you given your obstetrical cases during the 
first two weeks? 

6. When is a healthy child considered able to digest starchy 
foods? 

7. Name such foods as you would give a healthy child from 12 
to 18 months of age. 

8. What vegetables supply about the same elements for the sys- 
tem as meats? 

9. What can you say of the long and second cooking of starchy 
foods? 

10. Name such vegetables and fruits as you would give an in- 
valid. State reasons. 

1909 

1. Give theory of cooking starches and tell^ where and by what 
digested. 

2. Name the cereals that require long cooking and give approxi- 
mate time. 

3. Why do we toast bread ? 

4. What disease is usually given a carbohydrate-free diet? 

5. Name the heat and energy-giving foods. 

6. What do you consider an ideal diet? 

7. What should be the characteristics of an invalid's diet? 

8. What are some of the advantages of vegetables and fruits in 
our own diet? 

9. Why is cow's milk more likely to disagree with infants dur- 
ing the summer than in cold weather? 

10. Up to the present have we been benefited by the pure food 
laws ? 

11. Which contains more nourishment, fji of beef juice or fji 
of beef tea? 



xxii INTRODUCTION 

12. Give a list of tissue-building foods. 

13. What should be the diet of a case of acute nephritis? B. 
A case of eclampsia preceding or following labor? 

14. Give several ways in which milk and eggs may be prepared 
and flavored to give variety to liquid diet. 

15. State some of the advantages and disadvantages of milk, as 
fi food for invalids. 

WASHINGTON 

1909 

1. State the length of time required to properly cook the follow- 
ing cereals: rolled oats, rice, cornmeal mush. 

2. Of what value are fruits in digestion? 

3. How should an egg be boiled? How should it be served to 
an invalid? 

4. How would you make a raw beef sandwich? 

5. What are the requirements of food for a fever patient in order 
that the proper nourishment may be obtained? 

6. W^hy is stale bread more easily digested than bread freshly 
baked? 

7. What is meant by predigested food? 

8. How would you prepare extract of beef from the raw beef? 

9. Briefly outline a diet for diabetics. 

10. Would you boil cocoa? Give reasons for your answer. 

1910 

1. How would you prepare a beefsteak? Give reasons for method 
employed. 

2. Why is the. saliva an important factor in the digestive 
process ? 

3. If you wish to keep the juice in meat, how do you cook it? 

4. Name one good nutritive enema. 

5. What is important in cooking starchy foods? 

6. What would you include in a soft diet for an invalid? 

7. Briefly outline a diet for a patient suffering from pulmonary 
tuberculosis. 

8. What are the diet requirements in a case of anaemia? 

9. What class of foods should be excluded from a rheumatic diet 
and why? 

10. How do you prepare an egg omelet? Coffee? Cocoa? Tea? 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Intboduction xiii 

The American Hospital Association — (Colorado — 
Illinois — Minnesota — New York State Board Re- 
quirements in Dietetics. 

PAET I 

PEINCIPLES OF NUTEITION AND POOD 

PEEPAEATION 

CHAPTER 

I Food 3 

General Object — Definition — Food Accessories (or 
Food Adjuncts) — Source — Composition of the Body 

— Composition of Food — Classification of Food — 
NiTBOGENOus, Protein and Extractives — Non-Nitro- 
genous, Carbohydrates (Starch and Sugar ), Fats — 
Water — Mineral Matter. Food Accessories — Condi- 
tions for Perfect Nutrition. 

II Nutrition 36 

Digestion : — Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — 
Mineral Matter — Water. Resume of Digestion — 
Factors Determining Rate of Digestion. Absorption : 

— Protein — Fats — Carbohydrates — Mineral Matter 

— Water. Metabolism : — Protein — Fats — Carbo- 
hydrates. Excretion. 

III Food Values 54 

The Balance of Energy and Nitrogen Equilibrium, 
The Energy Value of Food — Energy Requirements of 
the Body — Tables Showing the Nutritive Value of 
Food. 

IV Feeding the Sick 72 

General Rules — Physicians* Directions — Feeding 

xxiii 



xxiv CONTENTS 

CHAFTEB PAQB 

in Acute Disease — Evidences of Digestion — The Ap- 
petite — Punctuality in Serving — Quality and Quan- 
tity of Food — Temperature of Food — Details in 
Feeding — Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth — Time 
and Position for Feeding — Sleep and Feeding — 
Feeding the Helpless Patient — Feeding the Uncon- 
scious Patient — Forced Feeding — Nasal Feeding — 
Use of the Stomach Tube — Rectal Feeding — Use of 
Alcohol in the Sidcroom — Keeping Ice in the Sick- 
room — Disinfecting Utensils. 

V The Trat 86 

Attractive Arrangement of a Tray. How to Serve 
(Qeneral Rules). 

VI Methods of Cooking and Care op Food 88 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of Cooked Food 

— Success in Cooking — Objective Points in Cooking 

— Effect of Heat — Principles Governing the Choice 
of a Method of Cooking Any Food — Principal Chok- 
ing Processes — The Object of each Cooking Process — 
Cooking Utensils — Blending Ingredients — Method 
of Working — Ice Box and Contents — Care of Food 

— Preserving Foods — Concentration — Predigestion 
of Food — Adulteration of Food. 

VII Measures and Weights 98 

Table of Measures and Weights — Apothecaries 
Weight — Apothecaries Measure — Approximate Meas- 
ures — Metric System — Measures of Volume — Meas- 
ure of Weight — Table of Equivalents — Table for Pre- 
paring Percentage Solution — Thermometry. 

PART II 

PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES 

OF NUTRITION 

RECIPES 

VIII Beverages 109 

Acid Beverages 110 

. Recipes 110 



CONTENTS XXV 

CHAFFER PAGE 

Albuminous Beverages 118 

Recipes 118 

Starchy Beverages 124 

Recipes 124 

Miscellaneous Beverages 127 

Tea 127 

Recipes 131 

Coffee .128 

Recipes 131 

Chocolate 129 

Recipes 134 

Cocoa 129 

Recipes 133 

• Special Non-Nutritive Beverages ...... 136 

Recipes 136 

IX Animal Foods 138 

Meat 140 

Recipes 149 

Poultry and Game 152 

Recipes 153 

Fish 159 

Recipes 162 

Fish Sauces 165 

Recipes 165 

Shell Fish 166 

Oysters 166 

Recipes 169 

Clams 168 

Recipes 172 

Eggs 175 

Recipes 179 

Milk and Milk Products 184 

Recipes 193 

Sweetbreads 200 

Recipes 201 

Gelatin 203 

Recipes 204 

Beef Preparations 212 

Beef Juice 212 

Recipes 214 



xxvi CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Beef Tea 213 

Recipes 215 

Raw Beef 214 

Recipes 217 

Meat Broths 217 

Recipes 219 

Meat Jellies 217 

Recipes ^ 221 

Soups 223 

Recipes 223 

Soup Accompaniments 229 

Recipes 229 

X Vegetable or Plant Foods 231 

Cereals 233 

Gruels 236 

Recipes 238 

Breakfast Foods 235 

Recipes 242 

Starchy Jellies 244 

Recipes 244 

Macaroni 245 

Recipes 245 

Bread 247 

Recipes 250 

Toast 255 

Recipes 256 

Sandwiches 258 

Recipes 259 

Crackers and Wafers 260 

Recipes 260 

Vegetables 261 

Recipes 265 

Vegetable Sauces 27 1 

Recipes 271 

Salads 272 

Recipes . 274 

Salad Dressings 272 

Recipes 273 



CONTENTS xxvii 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Fruits 276 

Recipes 279 

Nuts 283 

Fungi and Algs 284 

XI Nutritious Desserts 286 

Hot and Cold Desserts 286 

Soft Custards . . .• 287 

Recipes 287 

Baked Custards 288 

Recipes 288 

Whips and Souffles 290 

Recipes 291 

Junket 293 

Recipes 293 

Cornstarch Pudding or Blanc Mange 295 

Recipes 295 

Rice Puddings . 297 

Recipes 297 

Tapioca 300 

Recipes 300 

Bread Puddings 302 

Recipes 302 

Cracker Puddings 304 

Recipes 304 

Pudding Sauces 305 

Recipes 305 

Frozen Desserts 306 

Ice Cream 306 

Recipes 307 

Sherbet 306 

Recipes 312 

Ices 306 

Recipes 313 

XII Cake 317 

Recipes 318 



xiviii CONTENTS 

PART III 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES — DIET IN DISEASE 
. — DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

CHAFTEB PAGE 

XIII Hospital Dietaries . 323 

General Types of Diet Used in Hospitals : — 
Liquid or Fluid Foods — Soft or Semi-Solid Food — 

Solid Food. 

Typical Diets from Various Hospitals : — Light 
Diet or Convalescent Diet — Typical Light Diet 

— Milk Diet — Fluid Diet — Soft Diet — Soft Solids 

— Liquid or Farinaceous — Farinaceous Diet — Ni- 
trogenous Diet — Nutrient Diet — Oxaluric Diet — 
Strict Sugar-free Diet — Fat-free Diet — Salt-free 
Diet — Test Diet — Fish Diet — Broth Diet — Re- 
stricted Diet — Extra Diet — Dietary of the Bellevue 
Hospital, New York, 1910 — Dietary of the Presby- 
terian Hospital, New York, 1910. 

DIET IN DISEASE 

XIV Diet in Fevers and Infectious Diseases .... 331 

Diet in Fever in General — Diet in Convales- 
cence from Fever — Typhoid Fever — Starvation 
Treatment of Typhoid — Liquid Diet in Typhoid — 
Liberal or Generous Diet — Liquid Diet in Typhoid 

— (1) Fluid Diet in Typhoid— (2) Fluid Diet in 
Typhoid — Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid — 
Diet in Typhoid after Two Days of Normal Tempera- 
ture — Diet in Typhoid after Two Weeks of Normal 
Temperature' — Typhoid Delicacies — Typhoid Extra 
Diet — Liberal Diet in Typhoid (Frederick C. Shut- 
tuck, M.D.) — Tonsilitis and Quinsy — Diphtheria 

— Pneumonia — Broncho-Pneumonia — Mumps — 
Whooping Cough — Diet in Tuberculosis, Especially 
Pulmonary Consumption. 

XV Drcr in Disorders of Nutrition 355 

Diet in Diabetes — Diabetic Diet of Bellevue Hospi- 
tal—Diabetic Diet of Presbyterian Hospital — Dia- 



CONTENTS xxix 

CHAPTER PACOB 

betic Diet of Massachusetts General Hospital — Strict 
Sugar- free Diabetic Diet — Chronic Diabetes Diet — 
Substitutes for Starch and Sugar — A Diabetic Chart 
(Elliott P. Joslin, M.D.) —Menus for the Diabetic 

— Diet in Lithemia or Excess of Uric Acid — Acute 
Gout — Chronic Gout — Acute Rheumatism — Chronic 
Rheumatism — Diet in Obesity. 

XVI Diet in the Diseases of the Stomach ..... 373 

Acute Gastritis — Chronic Gastritis — Ulcer of the 
Stomach — Outline of Diet in Gastric Ulcer (Max 
Einhom, M.D.) — Gastric Ulcer Diet — Dr. Hewes's 
Diet, The Lenhartz Diet — The Lenhartz Diet Sheet. 

XVII Diet in Intestinal Diseases . 381 

Dyspepsia — Constipation — Diarrhoea — Dysen- 
tery — Diet for Acute Colitis (Dysentery) — Chronic 
Dysentery — Enteric Diet — Special Enteric Diet — 
Liquid Enteric Diet — Appendicitis. 

XVIII Diet in Disease of the Genito-Ubinabt System . . 390 

Acute Bright's Disease — Chronic Bright's Disease 

— Nephritic Diet — Acute Nephritis, Uric Acid 
Gravel — Convulsion in Bright's Disease — Albumi- 
nuria. 

XIX Diet in Miscellaneous Affections 395 

Nervous Disorders — Functional Disorders of the 
Liver (Biliousness) — Skin Diseases — Heart Dis- 
ease — Dietetic Management of Surgical Cases — 
Diet after Laparotomy, Ovariotomy, etc. 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

XX Motherhood 401 

Diet in Pregnancy — Vomiting of Pregnancy — 
(Vomiting of Seasickness) — Diet for the Mother 
after Labor — Diet for a Nursing Mother or Wet 
Nurse. 



XXX 



CONTENTS 



CHAFTEB PAGE 

XXI Infant Feeding 406 

General Considerations — Breast Feeding — The 
Wet Nurse — Composition of Mother's Milk — The 
Hygiene of Natural Feeding — Capacity of Babies' 
Stomachs — Schedule for Nursing — Weaning — Arti- 
ficial or Bottle Feeding — Difference Between Human 
and Cow^s Milk — General Principles of Milk Modi- 
fications — What Dilution to Use — The Quantity to 
Feed — Laboratory Milk — Home Modification — The 
Nursing Bottle — Formulae for Infant Feeding — Top 
Milk Method (L. Emmett Holt, M.D.) Card for Per- 
centage Feeding of Infants (Maynard Ladd, M.D.) 

— FormulflB for Preparing Infant Food from Ster- 
ilized Sugar of Milk — Scheme for Feeding Babies 
(Society of the Lying-In Hospital, New York City) 

— Peptogenic Milk Powder, Modifies Cow's Milk. 

XXII Thb Feeding of Young Children ....... 434 

General Rules for Feeding Young Children — Table 
of Comparison, Food Required by Child and Man — 
Table showing Increase of Calories Required for a 
Growing Child — Dietaries for Young Children 
(Louis Starr, M.D.) — General Principles of Feeding 
Sick Children. 

XXIII Diet fob the Adolescent — Diet fob the Sedentaby 

— Diet fob the Aged 442 

Index to Recipes 447 

General Index 465 



PART I 

PRINCIPLES OF NUTRITION AND FOOD 

PREPARATIONS 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

CHAPTEE I 
FOOD: ITS OBJECT 

Maintenance of Life and Energy 

There are few subjects deserving of more careful consid- 
eration than that of food; its composition, preparation, and 
effect upon the human system ; together with the process of its 
conversion into complex animal tissue, as brain or muscle, 
blood or bone. 

The true science of feeding should be thoroughly studied, 
that we may understand what properties enter into food; 
what elements the system demands in order to build or re- 
pair; by what means the necessary substances are best sup- 
plied, and how to prepare them that the body may maintain 
its efficiency; so that in case of illness, the least possible de- 
mands upon the digestive and assimilative functions may be 
made. 

Apart from the labor of every-day life in which brain and 
muscle engage, an immense amount of work is performed in 
the mere act of keeping alive. Nowhere in nature is work 
performed without a supply of energy, and also some wear 
and tear of the machine which does the work. This asser- 
tion is as true of the human body as of the locomotive, and 
just as the machine — whatever it may be — requires to be 
supplied with the conditions necessary for the production of 
force, so the living body similarly demands a supply of ma- 
terial from which its energy — the power of doing the work — 
can be taken. As the locomotive obtains the necessary con- 

3 



4 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ditions from the fuel and water (and air) which it consumes, 
so the living body derives its energy from the food, water 
and air upon which it subsists. 

Definition of Food. Foods are substances which when 
taken into the body supply the necessary elements for pro- 
moting its growth and repairing its waste ; and furnish it with 
material from which to produce heat and internal or external 
work. Substances that are unable to assist in either of these 
ways are called food accessories or food adjuncts. 

Food Accessories or Food Adjuncts, These are substances 
which, although unable to fulfill the definition of foods, find 
an extensive use in the dietary, for a variety of reasons. 
They give flavor to food, increase the appetite, stimulate 
secretion, and thus aid the digestive functions. They com- 
prise two classes, viz., condiments and beverages. 

Source of Food. Eood occurs in the mineral, plant and 
animal kingdoms. It occurs in all physical forms of matter 
— gases, liquids and solids. Gases are mentioned because 
oxygen is a true food and metabolized to a certain degree, 
being always present in the blood and tissues in loose chem- 
ical combination. 

Composition of the Body, The human body contains many 
chemical elements in varying amounts. 

Xitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen are the four pres- 
ent in largest proportion; iron, phosphorus, calcium, mag- 
nesium, potassium, sodium, sulphur, chlorin, iodin, also have 
important offices to perform. 

Composition of Food, Foods must contain the same ele- 
ments found in the body; thus it is that they are able to 
build and maintain the body structure. But no " one food ^* 
contains all these elements in proper proportions for all per- 
sons; therefore, it is by combinations of the various food 
stuffs that we produce a suitable diet. These elements must 
further be supplied in forms which the body can use. It 
cannot utilize carbon in the form of coal, for example, but 
must have it combined in special ways with hydrogen and 
oxygen. These combinations of elements or " Food Com- 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 5 

pounds ^^ found in nature (sometimes called " alimentary " 
or "food principles^' and "food stuffs ''), are usually classi- 
fied as proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral matter (or salts) 
and water. 

Food, as -it is taken into the body still differs in composi- 
tion from the material utilized by the tissues in growth, 
repair of waste, and production of energy in the form of work 
or heat. It must be finally prepared for the use of the body 
by the processes involved in Digestion. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOOD 

Foods may be classified in various ways: 

a. According to Source, as animal, vegetable, and mineral 
(including oxygen for combustion), 

b. According to Chemical Composition, as organic and in- 
organic, the organic foods being further subdivided into ni- 
trogenous and non-nitrogenous substances. 

c. According to Function, as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. 

Classification according to Chemical Composition 

Nitrogenous — Proteins 
Organic J r^~ . . - , Sugars 

Non-nitrogenous 



Carbohydrates 
Fats 



^Starches 



{Mineral Matter 
Water 

Classification according to Function 

'Proteins 
Tissue-formers or Body-builders 



Energy or Work and Heat Proaucers 



Mineral Matter 
Water 

"Carbohydrates 
Fats 
Proteins 



I 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



Eegulators of Body Processes 



" Mineral Matter 
Water 



Important Sources of Proteins: 

Milk, eggs, meat, fish, cheese, beans, peas, lentils, some nuts 
and cereals. 

Important Sources of Fats: 

Olive oil, butter, cream, bacon and other fat meat, and nuts. 

Important Sources of Carbohydrates: 

Cereals, and cereal products; sago, tapioca; starchy veg- 
etables, such as potatoes ; sugar, honey, sweet dried fruits. 

Important Sources of Mineral Matter: 
a. Available in organic form: 

Nitrogen, — supplied by protein. 

Phosphorus, — in milk and cream, eggs (especially 

the yolk), meat, whole wheat, oatmeal, dried peas 

and beans. 
Iron, — in eggs (especially the yolk), meat, whole 

wheat, oatmeal, dried and fresh peas and beans, 

spinach, raisins and prunes, 
b* Available in organic or inorganic form : 

Calcium, in milk, dried beans aftd peas, oranges, 

spinach, turnips ; other fresh fruits and vegetables, 

and whole grains. 
Magnesium, potassium, iodin, etc. — likely to be 

adequately supplied if the other ash constituents 

are provided for. The addition of sodium chloride 

(common salt) as a condiment usually supplies a 

surplus of sodium and chlorin. 

Special Functions of each Food Principle: 

Proteins — Supply energy, nitrogen, sulphur, and some- 
times phosphorus. 

Fats — Supply energy in the most concentrated form. 

Carbohydrates — Supply energy in the form most econom- 
ical to the body. 

Mineral Matter — Supplies building material, except nitro- 
gen and sulphur, and helps to regulate body processes. 



CONDITIONS FOB PERFECT NUTRITION 7 

Water — Supplies building material (forming 60 per cent, 
of the body), and helps to regulate body processes. 

COKSITIOKS FOB PEBEECT NXTTBITIOK 

For the proper support of the human system, a combina- 
tion of nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous foods is essential, 
with water to dissolve them and oxygen to burn them. Al- 
though air is not classified as a food it is essential to effect 
the chemical changes needful for assimilation. " About two 
thousand cubic feet of air need to pass through the lungs of 
an adult daily in order to furnish oxygen in sufficient quan- 
tity. If there is lack in this most important food-stuff (and 
nothing else can take its place), starvation as truly results 
as if other food were withheld, for the changes required for 
nutrition cannot take place, and furthermore incomplete de- 
composition occurs, which may result in more or less poison- 
ous products. 

** Fresh air — air with its quota of oxygen — is, then, a 
prime requirement in nutrition." — Ellen H. Eichards. 

A Perfect Food. 1. ^* A perfect food must contain all the 
nutritive elements of the body : Proteins, carbohydrates, fats, 
minerals, and water. 

2. It must contain these in their proper proportions. 

3. It must contain in a moderate compass the total amount 
required daily. 

4. The nutritive elements must be capable of easy absorp- 
tion, and yet leave a certain bulk of unabsorbed matter to 
act as intestinal ballast. It must be obtainable at a mod- 
erate cost.^^ — Hutchinson. 

A Mixed Diet therefore is necessary, as no "one food^' 
fulfills all the requirements of a "perfect food.'' A mixed 
diet must be taken whereby one food may be used to sup- 
plement what is lacking in another. The foods best for 
health are those best fitted to the needs of the individual. 
The cheapest food is that which furnishes the largest amount 
of nutriment at the least cost. The best food is that which 
is both healthful and cheapest. 



8 



PRACTICAL Dietetics 



NITBOOENOUS FOODS 

Nitrogenous substances are those which contain nitrogen, 
an element which is essential to the life of every cell. 

Classification. In older classifications, the term Protein 
is used to include all food substances containing nitrogen, 
this class being further subdivided into (1) Proteids, those 
proteins which can alone maintain the nitrogen equilibrium 
of the body; (2) Albuminoids or Oelatinoids, those which 
contain nitrogen in a form which can replace other proteins 
only to a limited extent; (3) Extractives, containing nitro- 
gen in a form unable to make good the body loss of nitrogen. 
These extractives are properly food accessories. 

Proteins are now defined as compounds of carbon, hydrogen, 
oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and sometimes phosphorus, which 
contain nitrogen in a form which the body can use. They are 
variously classified, but a simple division is one into (1) 
Simple Proteins, (2) Compound Proteins, and (3) Albumi- 
noids, Examples of simple proteins are albumins, globulins, 
and certain alcohol-soluble proteins found in cereals, as the 
gliadin of wheat ; of compound proteins, the nucleo-protein of 
organs consisting chiefly of cells, as pancreas or sweetbread, 
and the haemoglobin of the blood; of albuminoids, the fa- 
miliar product, gelatin, formed from the collagen of connec- 
tive tissue : 



Simple 



Albumins, e. g. 



Proteins ^ 



'White of egg. 
Casein of milk. 
Myosin of muscle. 
Fibrin of blood. 
Gluten of wheat. 
Legumin of legumes. 
Globulins, e. z In grains. 

{Gliadin of wheat. 
Zein of maize. 
{Nucleo-protein, e. g. in liver and sweetbread. 
Hasmoglobin of blood. 
Albuminoid Collagen of connective tissue. 



Compound 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 9 

Source, The proteins of the diet are derived both from the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms. The principal animal pro- 
teins are obtained from meats, fish, eggs, and milk. Meat 
and fish proteins are derived principally from the muscles; 
egg proteins from both the white and yolk; milk proteins 
chiefly from the casein, which forn^s the main constituent of 
cheese and curds. Animal foods are much richer in protein 
than plant foods. The only substances of vegetable origin 
which can compare with animal nutrients in this respect are 
the legumes (peas, beans, lentils, peanuts, etc.), and certain 
nuts, such as almonds, pine nuts, cocoa beans (the source of 
cocoa and chocolate). The entire grain of some cereals pos- 
sesses a high percentage of protein ; this is particularly true 
of so-called hard wheat, and in lesser degree of oats, Indian 
corn, rye, and barley. As a rule, flour and meal are about 
half as rich in protein as the dried grains from which they 
are prepared, though oatmeal and Indian meal lose but lit- 
tle through milling. 

Animal foods are usually digested with ease, and require 
less cooking and less mastication to insure good utilization; 
in the form of meat, they are liked because of their high 
flavor and stimulating properties. In vegetable foods, on 
account of the presence of cellulose, some of the protein is 
likely to escape digestion and absorption. For the invalid 
or convalescent, certain animal foods are preferred as a 
source of protein, as being more concentrated, and easier of 
digestion. Of ordinary vegetable food rich in protein, bread,' 
either stale and dry, or thoroughly toasted, is perhaps the 
most suitable for invalids. Starchy roots and tubers (as 
potatoes), and green vegetables and fruits, though valuable 
for other dietetic reasons, are very poor in protein. 

Animol Proteins. The albumins in the ordinary diet are 
derived chiefly from animal foods. The white of egg is a 
very pure form of this compound, and eggs constitute one 
of the best sources of nitrogen in a compact and assimilable 
form, especially convenient as they are readily taken raw. 

Casein, the chief protein of milk, represents the main 



10 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

source of this food element for infants and the sick. One 
quart of milk coritains as much protein as six ounces of lean 
beeksteak, and is more valuable because of its rich supply 
of mineral matter, to say nothing of the fat and carbohydrate 
present. 

Myosin is the typical protein in muscle tissue. After death 
it changes to a form calle'd syntonin. 

Fibrin and Serum Albumin, found in blood, occur to a 
slight extent along with myosin in meat. 

The only albuminoid which requires consideration here is 
collagen, a protein found in all connective tissues, including 
the modified forms, such as cartilage and bone.. This sub- 
stance is changed by boiling to gelatin. This is further al- 
tered by the gastric juice to gelatoses and gelatin-peptones, 
and finally absorbed, but it lacks certain elements found in 
albumins and other proteins, and consequently cannot be re- 
lied upon exclusively as a source of nitrogen for the body. 
It can replace about two-thirds of the ordinary protein re- 
quirement. 

Vegetable Proteins. These are chiefly globulins. The 
main representatives of the albumins in vegetable food are 
gluten of wheat and legumin of the legumes. A number of 
alcohol-soluble proteins occur, such as gliadin in wheat and 
zein in Indian corn. Vegetables contain a large number of 
nitrogenous substances which are not proteins. Thus while 
mushrooms contain much nitrogen, little of the latter is in a 
form which can be absorbed. 

Function of Proteins, Proteins are both body-builders and 
energy-producers, but are little utilized as fuel when carbo- 
hydrates and fats are well represented in the diet. As a fuel, 
they tend to burn up rapidly, and hence are not economical, 
and since in health only a small proportion of nitrogen is 
used from day to day, the part not needed being promptly 
excreted, it is not advantageous to have the diet largely com- 
posed of this food principle. During the periods of rapid 
growth, in the prenatal, infantile and adolescent states, when 
the body is forming new tissue at an unusual rate, there must 



NITROGENOUS FOODS 11 

be a liberal nitrogen supply. This is also true in conva- 
lescence from wasting disease, and sometimes after excessive 
physical exertion, when the muscle tissue is actually increas- 
ing. In health, when fats and carbohydrates are liberally 
provided, so that the protein is not required as fuel, a com- 
paratively small amount is needed for repair of tissue. This 
is especially true in old age. 

Nitrogenous Extractives, Substances found in muscle 
juice, consisting chiefly of creatin, creatinin, and purins 
(uric acid and related substances), are valuable only as stim- 
ulants. They give sapidity to meats and hence are appetiz- 
ing ; possess the power of stimulating the flow of gastric juice, 
and by their influence on the nervous system, gently in- 
crease the activity of the heart. For this reason, beef tea, 
beef extracts, etc., are of value to the sick. 

Cooking of Protein. Of all the proteins, ^^Albumin,'' of 
which there are many varieties, is the most important and 
needs most care in the cooking to make it easily digested. 

The majority of albumins are soluble in cold water and 
vegetable acids; they are coagulated by heat, mineral acids 
and alcohol. The cooking of albumin should be governed by 
these facts. 

"As the white of the egg is nearly pure albumin it will 
serve as an excellent illustration for demonstrating the effect 
of heat on the principal constituent of albuminous foods.'^ 

Effect of Temperature or Test for CooJcing Alhwmin 

Into a test tube put some white of egg, place in a sauce pan 
of cold water, heat gradually, and observe all changes. 

1. Eaw white of egg is a sticky, clear, pale straw-colored 
liquid, and readily digested. 

2. When water reaches the temperature 134** F. white 
streaks will be seen in a semi-solid white substance which is 
found to be readily digested. 

3. When water reaches the temperature 160° F. the egg 
will be firm, soft, and jelly-like, and is readily digested. 

4. When water reaches 212° F* the egg will be tough white 
jelly and less readily digested. 



12 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. When egg is heated to 300° F. or higher (for example 
put the test tube directly over flame), the egg will almost 
immediately become hard and tenacious. 

These albumin tests demonstrate that albuminous foods 
are most tender and readily digested when cooked at a low 
temperature but when coagulated at too high a temperature 
ai'e tough and indigestible. 

Eeheated albuminous foods are less digestible than freshly 
cooked because the albumin is much hardened by the second 
cooking. The principal foods requiring care in preparation 
because of the albumin are eggs, meat, and fish. These will 
be considered further under their separate headings. 

KON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 

CARBOHYDRATES (SUGAR AND STARCH): PATS 

Strictly speaking, any food substance not protein, even 
water and mineral water, is non-nitrogenous; but in the re- 
stricted sense of food as a source of energy, it is applied to 
two classes of organic compounds which contain no nitrogen, 
viz., . carbohydrates and fats. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

Definition. Carbohydrates are food substances which con- 
tain carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The oxygen and hydro- 
gen are usually present in proportion to form the water mole- 
cule (IlgO). These substances have therefore been termed 
carbohydrates. A carbohydrate may be defined as a simple 
sugar, or a substance which yields simple sugar after hy- 
drolysis. 

Source. Carbohydrates come from the vegetable kingdom 
almost entirely. There are a few exceptions, such as glycogen 
and milk sugar. They abound throughout the plant world, 
but especially in grains, roots, tubers, or wherever the plant 
stores its reserves. 

Function. Carbohydrates are burned up in the body to 
produce energy in the form of work or heat. All that is 
taken in excess of immediate need is stored, first as glycogen 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 



13 



or "animal starch'^ in the liver and muscles; and when the 
capacity to store glycogen is exhausted, in the form of fat. 
The fuel value of fat is two and one-fourth times that of 
sugars and starches, so that this is a very convenient form 
of storage of surplus carbohydrate. 

The Most Important Energy Producing Foods are cereals, 
potatoes, tapioca, sago, fats, sugar and honey. 

Classification, Carbohydrates include the monosaccharides, 
as typified in grape sugar; the disaccharides, as typified in 
cane sugar, and polysaccharides, including starch, dextrin, 
gums, cellulose and glycogen : 



Carbohydrates ■< 



Monosaccharides 
CoHiaOe 



Disaccharides 



PolysAccharides 
CeHioOft 



Orape Sugar (Dextrose or Olucose) 
Fruit Sugar (Levulose) 

(A mixture of dextrose and levulose is 

called Invert Sugar. Honey is the 

best example in nature) 



Cane Sugar 
Beet Sugar 
Maple Sugar 
Milk Sugar 
.Malt Sugar 

Starch 
Dextrin 
Glycogen 
Gums 
I Cellulose 



Sucrose 

(Lactose) 
(Maltose) 



Sugar 

Definition. Sugars are carbohydrates which are soluble, 
have a more or less sweet taste and many minor qualities 
which distinguish them from the starches. The disaccharides 
yield monosaccharides under the influence of enzymes or on 
boiling with dilute acids. AVhen heated to a high tempera- 
ture sugars form caramel. In dietetics we are especially 
concerned with grape sugar (dextrose), milk sugar (lactose) 
and cane sugar (sucrose). 

DEXTROSE OB GRAPE SUGAR (GLUCOSE) 

Description, Dextrose occurs as a syrup, rarely in crystal- 
line form. It is much less sweet than cane sugar. Other 
sugars have to be changed to this form before the body can 
use them. 



14 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Sources. It is found throughout the vegetable kingdom, 
and especially in fruits. A dried fig contains 65 per cent, 
of grape sugar. In nature it is formed from starch and so 
it may be produced in art by treating starch with acids. It 
is prepared on a large scale from cornstarch. 

Uses as Food. Dextrose or grape sugar is a fuel food in 
one of its most readily absorbed forms. It does not require 
digestion because this i^ the form to which carbohydrates of 
all kinds must be changed before they can be of use to the 
body. Taken in large quantities it is liable to ferment, or 
flood the system with sugar too rapidly, but as naturally 
present in sweet fruits, or in its artificial form in small 
quantHies along with other food-stuffs, it is a very economical 
source of energy. 

LACTOSE 

Milk Sugar or Lactose. This sugar is found almost ex- 
clusively in milk, from which it is conmiercially prepared. It 
has little sweetness and does not readily ferment. Until re- 
cently it has entered but little into practical dietetics, save 
in case of infants or others subsisting wholly or partly on 
milk, but its ease of assimilation and its mild flavor, make 
it frequently a valuable source of energy in disease. 

CANE SUGAR 

Pure cane sugar is chemically the same as beet-sugar. 
Maple sugar would not be different from common sugar, if 
it were sufficiently purified to remove the flavoring matter. 

Description. Cane sugar occurs naturally in crystals, some 
of which are extremely hard (rock candy) ; and in syrups, one 
of which is molasses. 

Sources, etc. Cane sugar is found in the sap or juices of 
a variety of plants, including sugar cane, the beet, the sugar 
maple, etc. Whether obtained by collecting sap or crushing, 
etc., it is always at first a syrup and all solid sugar is obtained 
from these juices by various methods. 

Uses as Food. Cane sugar enters into the dietary very 
largely, pure for table use, and in confectionery, or in com- 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 15 

binations with other foods in cookery. It is a very valuable 
source of energy, but must be used with discretion, because 
in too large amounts or in too concentrated form it is irri- 
tating to the stomach and liable to ferment, and also be- 
cause being quickly absorbed, it satisfies the appetite before 
the need for food has been entirely met, or blunts it so that 
other foods become distasteful. A pound of sugar and a 
pound of pure cornstarch are nearly equal in energy value. 
For children, it is much better to give sugar in the form of 
sweet fruits, because they are then supplied with valuable 
mineral salts which are entirely lacking in pure sugar. 

Substitute for Sugars, Since sugar is used not only as a 
fuel food but as a condiment, attempts have been made to 
secure a substitute for use in cases where carbohydrate is 
limited or denied. The best known of these is " saccharin '' 
or "sweetina,'^ a crystalline coal-tar product. It is many 
times sweeter than sugar, but it has no food value. 

Use of Sugar in Practical Dietetics. Sugar taken in small 
quantities will replace starch weight for weight, and be more 
easily and quickly absorbed. The amount of sugar which 
can be taken in place of ofher fuel food depends on the 
amount of exercise and the peculiarities of the individual. 
An excess of sweets may cause nausea and always blunts the 
appetite, thus cutting down the consumption of other foods. 
If a very large amount be taken, sugar will appear in the 
urine. The maximum advisable daily allowance of sugar is 
considered to be about four ounces. 

Sugar should be avoided in gastric disorders, such dis- 
turbances of nutrition as gout, rheumatism, and especially 
diabetes. Being a highly concentrated food, it should be 
avoided in obesity. 

Uses of Sugar in Cookery, Glucose is not so sweet as cane 
sugar, so that when used for sweetening other foods a larger 
amount must be taken. In cooking fruits, sugar should be 
added when the process is nearly, complete, as it tends to 
harden the fruit tissues. By boiling for a long time or in 
the presence of acids (whether naturally in the fruit or added 



16 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to it) cane sugar is changed to invert sugar, which is a 
mixture of equal parts of dextrose and levulose. While dex- 
trose is not so sweet as cane sugar, levulose is very much 
sweeter, so that the resulting product has a peculiar, pene- 
trating sweetness that is not so well liked as the cane sugar 
flavor. This is another reason for reserving the sugar till 
the end of the cooking process. 

Test for Sugar. A simple test for sugar, irrespective of 
whether it is glucose or cane sugar, consists in adding a little 
33 per cent, solution of caustic soda to the suspected solution, 
and boiling. If sugar is present the solution turns brown. 

The chief test for glucose or grape sugar alone is Fehling's. 
A test solution should be on hand, and may be obtained at any 
apothecaries. It should be obtained fresh. The test is based 
on the fact that glucose " reduces " salts of copper, i. e., by 
depriving them of some of their oxygen, an insoluble oxide 
of copper is precipitated. The test solution contains sulphate 
of copper, caustic potash and tartrate of sodium and potas- 
sium. To make the test, add to a portion of the test solution 
a few drops of the suspected solution in a test tube and boil. 
If a red substance precipitates,' glucose is present. The sole 
use of this test for the nurse will probably be in connection 
with diabetes, when the nurse makes the test at the request of 
the medical attendant. In all other tests for sugar, the first 
test mentioned above will suffice, and would also suffice for dia- 
betic urine were it not for the fact that a shamming patient 
could deceive the nurse by placing common sugar in her urine. 

Starch and Other Polysaccharides 

Starchy foods form a large part of the ordinary diet of 
man ; they are the chief source of the carbohydrates. Starch, 
unlike sugar, is insoluble but may be made to pass into a 
soluble form by dry-heating at high temperature, or by cer- 
tain digestive ferments. The first bodies formed are known 
as dextrins, but ultimately a sugar (maltose) is produced. 
The alimentary starches may be said to comprise starch 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 17 

proper; dextrins or soluble starches; and glycogen or animal 
starch, which is stored up in the liver. 

Source. Starch occurs widely in the vegetable kingdom, 
along with grape sugar. It is found in largest amounts in 
grains, seeds, roots and tubers. It is prepared for the market 
chiefly by mechanical means, being washed out of the finely 
cut vegetable substances. Its main commercial source is 
probably wheat, but it is also made largely from potatoes, rice, 
arrow-root, etc. 

Description. In its pure state, i. e., when isolated from 
proteins, cellulose, gum, etc., starch is a shining white pow- 
der having a distinctive quality to the touch. Under the 
microscope it is found to consist of granules, which are in- 
soluble in cold water. When heated to a high temperature, 
these granules undergo a certain amount of transforma- 
tion into soluble starch and dextrin. Boiling the starch 
in water has the same results. The action of the group 
of ferments known as diastases is to transform starch suc- 
cessively into soluble starch, dextrin, and finally maltose 
(malt sugar). 

Uses as Food. Starch is seldom used pure in dietaries, but 
with other food principles in the form of various flours and 
bread made from them, or as breakfast cereals, legumes, po- 
tatoes, etc. The breads baked from wheat flour are among 
the most widely distributed foods. 

Other Polysaccharides. Aside from starch and sugar the 
polysaccharides contribute but little to dietetic uses. Cellu- 
lose, the framework of plants, constitutes the largest propor- 
tion of their bulk. It is the principal part of the so-called 
*^ indigestible residue ^^ of digestion; and hence the amount 
of the residue varies greatly with the nature of the food 
eaten. Without nutritive value, it is still believed to be of 
service as a stimulant to intestinal peristalsis, by acting as 
a gentle mechanical irritant; by helping to retain moisture 
and keep the feces soft; and by giving such bulk that the 
intestinal muscles can act to good advantage. When attacked 
by bacteria, it forms acids which are valuable checks to in- 



18 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

testinal putrefaction. Unless it is desirable for some special 
reason to relieve the digestive tract of all work, a certain 
amount of cellulose should be included in the diet. In con- 
stipation the addition of some non-irritating form, as agar- 
agar has proved a successful therapeutic measure. 

Gums, taken incidentally into the body, represent little or 
no nutritive value, and like cellulose act as " ballast." 

Principles of Cooking Starch, The principles involved in 
the cooking of starch are of two types — chemical and me- 
chanical. 

Chemical Principles. Since raw starch is digestible only 
to a slight degree, it is essential to perfect digestion that 
starchy foods be cooked. 

In the presence of moisture, starch is made soluble at the 
temperature of boiling water, i. e., 212° F. By long boiling, 
this soluble starch can be converted into dextrin, a still more 
easily digested form than soluble starch. This principle is 
applied in the making of gruels, especially for invalids and 
infants. 

By dry heat, at a temperature considerably above 212° F. 
(300° F.-400° F.) starch can be converted quite readily to 
dextrin. This principle is applied in making toast. Some 
of the starch is further changed to caramel, giving a char- 
acteristic flavor to the crust of bread, toast, etc. 

Mechanical Principles. When foods composed almost en- 
tirely of pure starch, such as flour, cornstarch, etc., are to 
be cooked with a liquid, care must be taken to prevent the 
formation of lumps, for these are not only unsightly, but con- 
sist of an outer layer of soluble starch surrounding a center 
of unchanged material and preventing its being made di- 
gestible. 

There are three methods of avoiding lumps : — 

1. By mixing the starch gradually with a small portion 
of cold water, so that a smooth fluid mass is 
formed, before adding the boiling liquid. This 
method is useful in making gruels, etc. 



NON'NITROGENOUS FOODS 19 

2. By mixing with fat before adding liquid. The melt- 

ing fat separates the starch granules. At least as 
much fat as starch must be used. The liquid is 
preferably added cold, and all at once. If added 
hot, it must be stirred in very gradually. This 
method is employed in making gravies, sauces, etc. 

3. By mixing with sugar. The melting sugar serves 

to separate the starch grains. This is practicable 
only when the sugar is greater in amount than the 
starch, and the liquid must be ^added gradually. 
This method is applied in the case of desserts, such 
as cornstarch pudding. 

When foods consisting of a mixture of starch and cellulose^ 
as cereal breakfast foods, are to be cooked, it is necessary to 
soften and break up the cellulose to enable the digestive juices 
to reach the starch. This necessitates long cooking at a 
♦ temperature near the boiling point. The longer such a cereal 
product is cooked, the easier of digestion it becomes. Hence 
it is an excellent rule to cook such foods for infants and others 
of feeble digestive powers, twice as long as is conmionly recom- 
mended. 

Reheating of starchy foods, therefore, tends to increase 
their digestibility. Zwieback (or twice-baked bread) is more 
digestible, for example, than fresh bread. 

Test for Starch. Starch is colored blue by iodin. Hence 
it is easy to detect its presence in any food.. To make the 
test, a small portion of the material should be placed in a 
test tube, boiled with a little water, cooled, and two or three 
drops of dilute tincture of iodin added. If starch is present, 
the blue color will immediately appear. Dextrin gives a port- 
wine color with iodin, so that if any of this substance be 
present, the color is modified, becoming more or less purplish, 
or purple-red. 

, PATS AND OILS 

Definition. Fats are food-stuffs having the same ultimate 
chemical composition as carbohydrates; i. e., consisting of 



20 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, but the latter element is prea- 
ent in less proportion than in carbohydrates. Fats were 
formerly spoken of as hydrocarbons, but this term is now 
reserved for substances which contain no oxygen at all, such 
as benzine. 

Description. True fats, whether solid or oily, are chem- 
ically compounds of fatty acids with glycerine, and differ 
among themselves according to the particular fatty acids they 
contain. These commonly comprise stearic, palmitic and 
oleic acids. The stearates or combinations of stearic acid 
with glycerine (also generally spoken of as stearins) are solid 
fats as are also palmitates or palmitins. The oleates or oleins 
on the other hand are fluid at ordinary temperatures. It 
is therefore evident that solid fats contain much more stearin 
or palmitin than olein, while fat oils consist chiefly of olein. 
Stearin is found only in fat of animal origin. Animal fats 
are therefore a mixture of all three classes, while vegetable 
fats consist of mixtures of pahnitins and oleins. Suet and * 
tallow owe their firmness largely to the amount of stearin 
present, while lard owes its softness to the amount of olein 
present. Butter consists largely of palmitin. The most 
prominent of the animal fats are butter, cream, lard, suet, 
tallow, butterine, oleomargarine and cod-liver oil. The veg- 
etable oils are obtained from fruits and nuts (olive, cotton- 
seed, peanut, cocoanut, cocoa bean and almond). Vegetable 
oils and the liver oil of fish are composed chiefly of olein. 
Certain dietetic substances not usually thought of as fatty, 
contain much oil. Some of these are yolks of eggs, Indian 
corn and nearly all nuts except chestnuts. Artificial products 
like butterine are described elsewhere. They are often pre- 
ferred to butter because their melting point is lowered by the 
addition of suet or tallow (beef -drippings) so that they keep 
better in warm weather. 

Lecithin is a substance usually classed with fats and oils. 
Besides fatty acids it contains phosphorus. It is a necessary 
constituent of every living cell and is especially plentiful in 
the nervous tissues. At present it is used to a considerable 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOODS 21 

extent in medicine in the belief that it is of value as a food- 
drug and reconstituent. It is prepared from the yolk of egg 
and from brain substance. Feeding yolks of eggs is usually 
as advantageous and cheaper. 

Volatile Oils. These, as already stated, have little in com- 
mon with true oils. They stain paper only temporarily, 
while a fat stain is permanent. They vary much among 
themselves in composition and agree chiefly in their tendency 
to disappear by evaporation; and their odor, taste and pun- 
gency. A few of them are used in diet for flavoring. The 
oil of bergamot is obtained from orange peel, oil of lemon 
from lemon peel, etc. The act of cooking tends to volatilize 
them, so that such flavoring should be added at the last mo- 
ment. 

Sources of Fat in the Diet. The chief sources of fat in the 
diet are milk (yielding cream and butter), olive oil, meat 
fats (especially lard, bacon and salt pork, beef suet and drip- 
pings), and oily nuts. 

Cheap Forms of Fat, Butter, cream, olive oil, lard, etc., 
are all subject to adulteration with cheaper fats, but aside 
from the fraud in charging a high price there is a legitimate 
industry for making cheaper products representing these 
articles. Thus skim milk has its lost cream restored by a 
homogenized meat fat containing some butter. A substitute 
for butter is produced from animal fats and sold under special 
names, etc. The industry is yet in its infancy, although half 
a century old. The more expensive fats are prized for their 
flavor, but the cheaper fats carefully refijied have also a high 
nutritive value. 

Function, Fats are burned up in the body and produce 
energy in the form of work or heat. According to Dr. W. 
Gilman Thompson, the chief uses of fats are as follows : 

1. To furnish energy for the development of heat. 

2. To supply force. 

3. To serve as covering and protection in the body. 

4. To make more plastic various structures of the body and give 
rotundity to the form. 



22 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

5. To spare the tissues from disintegration; for, although their 
combustion in the body results largely in the production of heat, 
they also take to some extent in tissue formation. 

6. To serve for storage of energy. 

Source of Body Fat. Twenty per cent, of the normal 
weight of man is fat. It is derived mainly from fatty foods 
and carbohydrates. Proteins are transformed into fat only to 
a very limited degree. It is most readily produced from car- 
bohydrates, or a mixture of carbohydrates and fats. 

Principles of Cooking. Fats are more digestible cold than 
hot, because hot fat tends to coat and intimately penetrate 
the food with which it is cooked or eaten, and as this coating 
is not dissolved by the digestive juices of the mouth or 
stomach, little or no digestion of carbohydrate and protein 
can take place in either of these places under such circum- 
stances. Heating fat to a high temperature also changes its 
chemical nature, often producing irritating substances which 
interfere with digestion. For such reasons fried food should 
never be given to invalids. 

Digestibility. The majority of fats are not very easily di- 
gested, consequently are not tolerated by those suffering from 
indigestion or by patients acutely ill; their use should be 
limited to finely divided forms, as in milk or yolk of egg; 
it is sometimes even necessary to reduce the fat in milk by 
skimming off the cream, or to limit the amount of yolk of 
egg, inasmuch as 30 per cent, of the yolk is fat. Other 
forms of fat valuable in the invalid's dietary are butter, cod- 
liver oil, and fat bacon cooked crisp. All fats, except limited 
quantities of butter and cream, should be forbidden in acute 
diseases of the stomach, intestines and liver, and in most of 
the chronic affections. Their uses should be limited also in 
the presence of gall stones. 

Fatty foods should be prescribed for children with rickets 
and for all who have diabetes. In the latter disease they 
partly replace the carbohydrates which cannot be used. Fat 
may be prescribed with benefit in chronic wasting disease, 
such as tuberculosis, and during convalescence from severe 



WATER 23 

acute disease. The most agreeable and digestible forms 
should be given. At first a small portion only should be 
taken, and the quantity increased in proportion to a patient^s 
willingness to accept it. In a general way fats and oils are 
laxative; consequently useful in case of constipation and 
equally harmful where there is a tendency to diarrhoea. 

Comparative Value of Fat and Carbohydrates as Fuel Foods. 
Fats and cf^rbohydrates serve the same purpose in the body, 
in that they furnish energy. Fats are not as easily digested 
as carbohydrates, but weight for weight they furnish two and 
one-fourth times as much energy. 

Tests for Fats. Fats are readily tested with paper; if 
they are present in a given substance a permanent grease- 
spot appears. If to a suspected substance a little solution of 
caustic soda is added a white precipitate forms, representing 
a hard soda soap. 

WATER 

Composition and Properties. Water is a compound of hy- 
drogen and oxygen, consisting of two parts by volume of 
oxygen to one of hydrogen. Absolutely pure water is color- 
less, odorless, and tasteless, but such water is not found in 
nature, owing to its great solvent power, which causes it to 
dissolve substances with which it comes in contact. Water 
ordinarily, therefore, contains varying quantities of mineral 
and organic matter, including gases. To these substances in 
solution the characteristic flavor is due. Water from which, 
the air has been expelled by long standing in a warm place, 
or by boiling, has a " flat *^ taste. 

Water freezes at 32** F. On heating, the ice melts, and 
we may have ice water with a temperature of 32** F. When 
this water is warmed, the air dissolved in it begins to expand, 
and tiny bubbles appear, forming first on the sides of the 
vessel, and tending to rise to the surface. If the water there 
is not yet warmed, they contract and sink, but finally when 
the water is warm throughout, come to the surface and es- 
cape. After the air is thus expelled, if heating is continued. 



24 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

steam bubbles form in a similar manner. At 185** F., water 
bubbles below the surface, or simmers. When the bubbles 
reach the surface and break, giving oflf a cloud of steam, the 
boiling point has been reached, 212** F. Except under pres- 
sure, water can then become no hotter. Fast boiling simply 
means rapid evaporations and waste of fuel. 

Source of Water as Food. A considerable source of water 
is food itself. In green vegetables and fruits it constitutes 
as high as 85 per cent.-95 per cent, of the whole substance ; in 
potatoes and other starchy vegetables it is present in as large 
amount as 75 per cent. Even in seemingly dry foods, ^ as 
crackers, there may be as much as 5 to 10 per cent. But 
since 60 per cent, of the body itself is composed of water, and 
water loss through the lungs, skin, kidneys, etc., is very con- 
stant, the supply in ordinary diet is not sufficient, and water 
must be added as a beverage. This may be in the form of 
ordinary drinking water, of tea, coffee, or other similar bev- 
erages and of medicinal waters; the latter, however, should 
be considered chiefly under the head of drugs. 

Functions of Water in the Body. Water undergoes no 
chemical change in the body, yet the consideration of it is of 
vital importance. Solution is an essential part of digestion. 
Water bathes the tissues and washes away our waste and ex- 
crementitious matter. As it does not itself undergo any 
chemical alteration it is not susceptible of liberating force, 
consequently is not an energy-producing agent, but contributes 
to chemical changes by supplying a necessary condition for 
their occurrence. 

Dr. Oilman Thompson summarizes the uses of water in the 
body as follows: 

1. It enters into the chemical combination of the tissues. 

2. It forms the chief ingredient of aU the fluids of the body and 
maintains their proper degree of dilution. 

3. By moistening various surfaces of the body, such as the mucous 
and serous membranes, it prevents friction and the uncomfortable 
symptoms which might result from their drying. 

4. It furnishes in the blood and lymph a fluid medium by which 



WATER 25 

food may be taken to remote parts of the body and the waste material 
removed, thus promoting rapid tissue changes. 

5. It serves as a distributor of body heat. 

6. It regulates the body temperature by the physical processes of 
absorption and evaporation. 

Professional fasters have shown that one may live for 
weeks without food, but it may readily be demonstrated that 
a warm-blooded animal except in a state of hibernation or 
trance can subsist but a few days without water. 

Food Uses of Water. Water taken in considerable quan- 
tities with meals favors upward metabolism and increases the 
utilization of food. Thirst at meals does not always mean 
a true body demand for water, as it may be due to condiments, 
or to improper mastication of food. Under ordinary circum- 
stances, about three or four pints daily are necessary to make 
up loss of water that is constantly being eliminated through 
the skin, kidneys, lungs and intestines. The quantity ex- 
creted daily varies greatly under special conditions. The de- 
mand for water is much increased by hot weather, and vio- 
lent exercise, and diminished in the bedridden and sedentary. 
Babies, delirious patients, etc., should be fed water, as care- 
fully as other food. 

Classification of Varieties of Drinking Waters. The clas- 
sification of water as food is based chiefly on its purity and 
palatability. 

Hard and Soft Water. Water containing calcium (lime) 
or magnesium salts is known as hard water; and if it contains 
these salts in excess it is unsuited not only for drinking 
but for cooking and bathing, unless purified or softened. As 
only the carbonates can be expelled from the water, the purifi- 
cation is incomplete; chlorides and sulphates remain behind. 
For washing purposes the carbonate of lime may be precipi- 
tated by treating with lye, whereupon it rises to the surface 
and can be skimmed off. By adding soda to cooking water, 
a similar softening is obtained desirable in cooking vegetables, 
as they are toughened by the lime and sodium chloride. 
Finally, for drinking purposes hard water may be subjected 



26 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

to prolonged boiling and straining; by this means the car- 
bonic acid is driven off and the lime is set free. It must be 
remembered that a water not suited for domestic uses may 
still be fit for drinking if not taken in great excess, because 
lime and magnesium are natural ingredients of the body. 

In 80p water only a small amount of salts are found and 
as a rule it is more desirable to use for cooking purposes, 
especially in the cooking of legumes or when the object is 
to extract the nourishment or flavor of food, as in making 
tea or soup, etc. 

Eain water is naturally pure but devoid of any mineral 
<5ontent, which is sometimes a disadvantage. It is not very 
palatable. It should be remembered that the first part of a 
rain fall carries down with it dust and impurities from the 
air, but the latter part of a shower furnishes as pure water 
as can be found from any source. 

Spring Water, well water, etc., vary greatly in the amount 
of mineral matter, organic matter, gases, etc., present. In 
many cases the mineral content or gas content is such as to 
confer a medicinal value. In other cases the mineral matter 
is a menace to health. In most ground-water there is organic 
matter which besides being undesirable in itself invites the 
presence of germs, which often threaten the health and safety 
of whole communities. Great care should be taken as to the 
location of a well ; deep spring water and water from artesian 
wells is usually pure. City water is usually filtered through 
sand beds and otherwise purified ; the law requires such waters 
to be frequently analyzed as to purity. 

As water may dissolve the lead from pipes through which 
it flows, it should be allowed to run several minutes before 
using if it has not been recently run off (as after standing 
over night) to avoid the risk of lead poisoning. 

Filtered Water is water freed from organic matter of all 
kinds. It should be pure and palatable. But filtered water 
as a rule cannot be depended upon for purity owing to the 
fact that the domestic filters require constant cleansing and 



WATER 27 

serve to condense the imptire organic matter which putrefies 
upon the filter and renders the water passed through them 
fouler in place of purer. Small filters screwed on fau- 
cets are of no value whatever. There are charcoal and 
porcelain filters on the market that are very good, but are 
not effective unless often and thoroughly cleansed. When 
there is the least doubt as to the purity of water it is best to 
boil it. 

Boiled Water. Water simply sterilized by boiling and 
kept in bottles in a cool place is extensively used when there 
is suspicion as to its purity. It is rather unpalatable. Boil- 
ing renders harmless all the organic impurities and precipi- 
tates salts of lime. It must always be borne in mind that 
typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery and other pestilences are 
largely water-borne diseases, and whenever there is any sus- 
picion that water is contaminated, the most available method 
for purification is boiling. Before filling the bottles, have 
them thoroughly cleansed and rinse with boiling hot water, 
as a few drops of unboiled water would be sufficient to con- 
taminate the whole. To prevent breaking, place bottles in 
pan of warm water before pouring in the boiling water. 

Distilled Water. This is water in its purest state. It is 
said by many authorities to be unsuited for a beverage be- 
cause of total absence of mineral matter and gases, on ac- 
count of which mineral matter is greedily abstracted from 
the walls of the stomach, thereby causing congestion and irri- 
tation. It is generally used for medicinal and chemical pur- 
poses. If employed as a beverage it should be aerated to 
improve the flavor. 

Carbonated Waters. Ordinary water may be artificially 
charged with carbon dioxid, as soda water, etc. Among the 
most common carbonated waters (naturally charged) are 
Vichy, Apollinaris and Seltzer (effervescing waters) and Po- 
land water (uneffervescing) . These are valuable in case of 
fever and to tempt people to drink more water; also in re- 
lieving nausea and vomiting. They are used to advantage 
with acid drinks and to dilute alcoholic liquors. Carbonated 



28 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

water of any kind should not be taken in excess, as such waters 
are apt to produce indigestion, by retarding the action of the 
gastric juice. 

Alkaline Mineral Waters are carbonated (naturally 
charged) and differ from ordinary water in the greater 
amount of gaseous (carbon dioxid and sulphuretted hydro- 
gen) and solid matter (sodium chloride, potassium, magne- 
sium, iron, sulphur, etc., etc.), which they contain. Some 
mineral waters have no medicinal value and are simply used 
for quenching thirst; others have purgative, laxative or diu- 
retic effect. The following are a few examples of the latter 
class — Sulphur Spring, Saratoga, Vichy, Hunyadi, London- 
derry, and Lithia Waters. 

The benefit derived from the water cures so often pre- 
scribed is not usually from the water itself but from the 
change, treatment and quantity of water taken. Much bene- 
fit can be derived by following the same treatment at home. 

Temperature of Drinking Water. Luke-warm or tepid 
water {G5^ to 92** P.) which in theory should be most suited 
for drinking is insipid and even repugnant to most people. 
Hence as a beverage water is either taken warm (92** to 100** 
F.), hot (100" F. and over), cool (65** to 92** F.) or cold (32** 
to 65** F.). The taking of hot water in large quantities has 
been found of benefit for weak digestions and in much chronic 
invalidism. It acts as a stimulant to gastric digestion; re- 
lieves thirst more quickly than cold water; is more quickly ab- 
sorbed, and leaves the stomach sooner. Cool water is the nor- 
mal beverage for quenching thirst. Ice water is unsuitable 
for all individuals when overheated, and with meals for dys- 
peptics and those in delicate health. Fever patients, however, 
may take it ad libitum ; for most robust individuals who crave 
it with or without meals it seems to do no great harm, if taken, 
slowly and in moderation. Its coldness acts as a natural 
check against overindulgence. It probably slows the move- 
ments of the stomach and as long as the stomach is chilled 
the action of the pepsin is curtailed since this acts best near 



MINERAL MATTER 29 

blood temperature, but the arrest is only temporary. A small 
quantity of crushed ice is known to relieve nausea. 

UINESAL HATTEB 

Function. The mineral matter in the body serves the 
most varied ends. It gives solidity to the bones and teeth; 
its presence in body fluids, such as blood and lymph, im- 
parts to them a certain degree of concentration which is abso- 
lutely necessary to the vital processes. Again, minute quan- 
tities of mineral matter are invariably present in living cells 
and are indispensable to their existence. The kind of min- 
eral matter in a given tissue or organ varies according to its 
function. The bones and teeth owe their stability to salts 
of calcium (lime) and magnesium, especially the phosphates. 
The salts which are necessary for the regulation of the body 
fluids^ comprise potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium, 
especially in the form of chlorides. The substances essential 
to the active cells as part of their normal structure comprise 
phosphorus, iron, and sulphur, in the forin of organic com- 
pounds, along with other salts in small quantities. Phos- 
phorus is found in the nuclei of all cells and is essential for 
growth. The red corpuscles are rich in iron, and the thyroid 
gland cells contain considerable iodin. Nearly all cells have 
traces of sulphur, mainly in the form of protein. 

Amount and Kind of Mineral Matter in the Organism. 
The mineral matter in the body amounts to about 5 or 6 
per cent, by weight, occurring chiefly in the bones. The ele- 
ments needed in the body can all be found in food. 

The chemical elements found in the body comprise hydro- 
gen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus, sulphur, silicon, 
fluorin, chlorin, iodin, all of the non-metal type; while of the 
metals are present sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, 
iron. Traces of manganese, aluminium, possibly also arsenic, 
are sometimes found. Any substance which exists in the soil 
may find its way into the body. 



30 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

There is more calcium (lime) in the body than any other 
of the metals, while phosphorus exists to a greater extent 
than any other non-metallic element, exclusive of those which 
go to form living matter. These elements predominate thus 
because the bones contain so large an amount of phosphate 
of lime. Lime is also present to a considerable extent as car- 
bonate. Magnesiimi phosphate comes next in amount. With 
the exception of these three bone compounds, mineral matter 
is present in relatively small quantities. 

The sodium and chlorin occur chiefly in the form of sodium 
chlorid, which is present in all the fluids and solids. The 
chlorin of hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice comes from 
the sodium chlorid. Some sodium is also present as car- 
bonate and phosphate, and these two are found in sufficient 
amount to give tiie blood and numerous fluids and secretions 
an alkaline reaction. Potassium occurs mainly in the form 
of potassium phosphate. Muscle-tissue is rich in this s^lt. 

The sulphur and phosphorus which enter the body in the 
form of protein in animal food are oxidized to sulphuric 
and phosphoric acids and these at once combine with bases 
to form sulphates and phosphates of lime, sodium, etc. 
Sulphates occur to a slight extent only, while as already stated 
phosphates are the most important constituents numerically. 

Source of Mineral Matter in the Food. The mineral mat- 
ter received into the body comes either from the solid food 
or dietetic fluids. With the exception of sodium chlorid 
(common salt) it is not usually added to the diet. Such ad- 
ditions, however, are often prescribed as medicine in states 
of ill health. Thus phosphates and hypophosphites of lime, 
sodium and potassium are used largely in rickets and scrofula. 
Iron is given for impoverished blood. It is better to give 
them in the form of food as far as possible, and care should 
be taken to see that the food is rich in the mineral elements 
needed even if they are at the same time being given in in- 
organic form, for the body can use food salts in many in- 
stances to much greater advantage. 

Animal food in general contains the same mineral con- 



MINERAL MATTER 31 

stituents that are found in corresponding human tissues. 

Cow's milk is rich in calcium and phosphorus in organic 
forms, and contains small amounts of sodium, potassium, 
magnesium, iron and chlorin. 

Eggs contain iron and phosphorus in their most assimilable 
forms, especially in the yolks. 

Meats are lacking in calcium, and while red meats are 
comparatively rich in iron, it is not in as available form as 
in eggs. 

Since the animals used by us as food obtain their mineral 
matter from plants, the richest and most varied supply is com- 
monly found in the vegetable kingdom. Calcium is abundant, 
especially in such vegetables as beans and peas, fresh or dried, 
in other green vegetables, in fruits and the outer parts of 
grains. There is little in polished rice or fine flour. 

Vegetable foods are rich in potassium, which usually oc- 
curs in the form of potassium phosphates. Spinach is richer 
in iron than almost any other plant food; whole wheat, oat- 
meal, peas and beans, raisins and prunes are also valuable 
sources of organic iron. 

Vegetable Acids and their Salts. Some authorities con- 
sider these substances under the head of mineral matter, 
although they have an organic origin and do not preexist 
in the soil. They comprise the acids of juicy fruits such as 
the citric acid of the citrus group, the malic acid of apples, 
pears, etc., and the tartaric acid of grapes. They exist partly 
in a state of combination with sodium and potassium. From 
a dietetic standpoint they may be placed in the same category 
as the carbonic acid gas and alkaline carbonates of the diet, 
because in the body they quickly become changed to car- 
bonates, and assist in the maintenance of the proper reaction 
of the blood. Various diseases are believed to be due to an 
excess of acid in the diet, or what is the same thing, to a 
diminution of alkali. There is no doubt that substances con- 
taining these bodies and their compounds form a very useful 
and agreeable addition to dietaries. 

Importance of a Proper Supply of Mineral Matter. It 



32 , PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

was formerly thought that since mineral matter is universally 
present in food and drink, an individual need pay little at- 
tention to this phase of the feeding problem. Before the 
paths of elimination of ash constituents had been studied with 
any care, it was assumed that many such compounds were 
excreted in the feces without having ever been absorbed. 
Since more light has been thrown on the fact that the in- 
testines form the regular path of excretion of certain mineral 
matter, and on the chemical nature of the regulation of body 
processes, there has been greater realization of the fact that 
unless a diet is chosen from a wide range of food materials, 
there is danger of some of these constituents being supplied in 
too small quantities or not at all. This is especially true in 
the case of artificially-fed infants and of growing children, 
whose demand for building material is large, but it is not 
negligible even in adults, especially for the proper control 
of the body processes. If care is taken to provide iron, 
phosphorus and calcium in organic forms, there is little dan- 
ger of inadequate supply of the inorganic salts, since these 
are present in the milk, eggs, green vegetables and fruits 
which best supply the elements mentioned above. 

Use of Mineral Matter in Disease, In health, deprivation 
of salt soon leads to great loss of vitality, but in various 
diseases reduction in the consumption of salt is known to be 
beneficial. Thus in such conditions as Brighfs Disease, 
sodium chlorid (common salt), appears to be so injurious 
that attempts are made to reduce the quantity ingested. This 
is known as "salt starvation.^^ Epileptics who depend 
upon bromides to prevent their fits can do with much less of 
these substances if their salt is cut down, because bromin up 
to a certain extent displaces the chlorin in such compounds 
as sodium chlorid, and fails to fulfill its purpose in such a 
case. 

Lime-starvation is also practiced under certain circum- 
stances, and some animals can thrive fairly well if calcium is 
replaced by strontium, an allied substance never present nor- 
mally in animal tissues. It is common to find statements that 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 33 

certain serious disorders like calculus disease, rickets, scurvy, 
tuberculosis, etc., are due primarily to too much or too little 
of some mineral ; but as already stated the real causes must lie 
deeper, although the possibility of such factors must never be 
underrated. Scurvy was once held to be due to too much 
salt, used as preservatives; later it was regarded as due less 
to excess of some salts than absence of others, as potassium. 
We only know that with a more liberal dietary, including 
vegetables and fruits, it has largely disappeared. Calculus 
disease of certain kinds is more frequent in districts where 
drinking water contains much lime, but most people escape 
the affection. 

Children with rickets often improve on preparations con- 
taining lime and sodium, as also do scrofulous children, but 
it is difficult to show that in Such cases the remedies act by 
supplying any one kind of mineral food. The safe way is to 
supply foods containing all, unless some particular condition 
makes the elimination or addition of specific elements neces- 
sary. 

FOOD ACCESSOBIES OB ADTTTNCTS 

CONDIMENTS — BEVERAGES 
CONDIMENTS 

Condiments are substances not necessarily possessing nutri- 
tive value, which are used to give sapidity to tasteless or un- 
appetizing dishes. To what extent they have any specific 
action on the functions of the body is not clear. They tend 
to increase the flow of saliva, and thus in theory favor the 
digestion of starch. 

Classification. The number of condiments, if we include 
appetizing substances of all kinds, is very large. In some 
countries, olives, a bit of dried herring, in fact, anything pos- 
sessing pungency, may be served before a regular meal. Al- 
coholic beverages need not be considered here. 

Sauces perhaps represent the largest class of condiments 
and the great number and variety of their ingreidients give 



84 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

lis some idea of the number of individual condiments. They 
are added to food while eating. 

Spicfis (ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves) are used 
only in cooking. In this same category may be placed flavor- 
ing extracts. 

Mustard forms a condiment in itself. It is used both in 
preparing food and as an accessory while eating. Horserad- 
ish belongs in the same class. The flavor of these depends 
on a volatile oil peculiar to each substance. Such oils have 
no value as foods. Pepper, salt and vinegar form the most 
indispensable of table condiments. Of these, salt is, strictly 
speaking, a food. When, however, it is used in excess of 
body needs, simply to modify the flavor of food, it is prop- 
erly classed as a condiment. 

Condiments are taken for their mild stimulating effects on 
the tissues with which they come in contact. They are not 
required by a normal appetite, but are frequently used to 
obscure the flavor of poorly prepared food. Just as bread can 
be made of so delicate a flavor that it can be eaten without 
butter, most other foods can be so treated as to have a suffi- 
cient sapidity. In the Northern States, tomatoes and melons 
are eaten with various accessories ; in some parts of the South 
such fruits have so delicious a flavor that they are eaten plain. 
To add a cheap table sauce to a costly steak seems a gas- 
tronomic sin and certainly has no physiological justification. 

In short, the taste for condiments is largely an artificial 
one, and their use should be limited. A well-trained palate 
tires of these high seasonings more quickly than of the mild 
characteristic flavors of food perfect in its natural state or 
so cooked as to develop its inherent taste. The moderate use 
of condiments occasionally, for the sake of variety, or when 
the appetite is feeble, may be legitimate. They should be 
withheld (with the exception of salt), from the food of chil- 
dren, both because they destroy the appetite for milder foods, 
and because they are irritating to the mucous membrane of 
the alimentary canal. Because of their irritant properties 
they should also be given with caution to invalids, especially 



FOOD ACCESSORIES OR ADJUNCTS 35 

those suffering from any inflammation of the digestive tract. 
A person properly trained to relish foods for their natural 
flavors does not crave condiments, and is better ofif without 
them. 

BEVERAGES 

These food accessories comprise milk, coffee, tea, cocoa 
and chocolate, alcoholic drinks, lemonade and other acid 
drinks, aerated and carbonated drinks. Milk is a food 
rather than a beverage, becoming a solid instead of a liquid 
food in the stomach. It is the only product in nature pro- 
vided solely for food. It contains not only protein, fat, and 
carbohydrates in good proportions, but also a rich supply of 
mineral salts in an available form. Growing children should 
have at least a quart of milk every day. Cocoa and chocolate- 
are also valuable for their content of protein, fat, and car* 
bohydrate, and drinks from fruit juices contain mineral salts^ 
organic acids (which help to maintain the alkalinity of the 
blood), and some carbohydrate. In other cases, the value of 
beverages does not lie in their nutritive content. 

Stimulation, Coffee, tea, chocolate and cocoa contain a 
stimulating alkaloid which produces mild exhilaration without 
reaction. Alcoholic drinks while they tend to produce nar- 
cotic effects when taken in excess, act as stimulants and ap- 
petizers in small quantities. " 

Thirst Quenching. Substances like lemonade, ginger ale, 
and aerated drinks in general use are used for this purpose. 

Sapidity. Coffee and its congeners are used largely for 
their delicate flavor, and this may be said to a certain degree 
of all beverages. Drinks especially designed for the invalid 
and the sick will be considered under other heads. 



CHAPTER II 
NTITEITION 

DIGESTION — ABSOBPTIOH — METABOLISM 

Under this term is usually understood the digestion and 
absorption of nourishment, its assimilation and utilization, 
its storage in excess, and finally the elimination of the 
products of wear and tear, of combustion products, and of 
nutriment or waste which cannot be utilized. Those processes 
of nutrition which occur after absorption are now included in 
the term metabolism. To restate this in a simple form 
(adapted from Thompson), nutrition involves: 

1. The secretion of digestive fluids, and their action upon 
food in the alimentary canal — in other words, digestion. 

2. The passage of the ingredientg of the digested food into 
the blood vessels and lymphathic vessels — absorption. 

3. The utilization of the absorbed nutrition products by 
the cells — assimilation or upward metabolism. 

4. The elimination of waste material — disassimilation or 
downward metabolism. 

The subjects of digestion and absorption will be treated in 
detail for each food principle, and then summarized at the 
end of each topic. 

DIGESTION 

DIGESTION OF PEOTEINS 

Digestion in the Stomach. Protein is not chemically al- 
tered in the mouth. The process of chewing simply mois- 
tens and divides it into small particles so that it is easily 
swallowed and more readily attacked by the secretion of the 
stomach. Passing down the oesophagus, through the cardiac 

36 



DIGESTION 37 

sphincter guarding the entrance to the stomach, it enters that 
portion of the latter organ called the fundus. Here it rests 
quietly for some time, so that it is not immediately mixed 
with gastric juice, as formerly taught, but the outer portions 
of the mass are successively attacked and dissolved. These 
soft portions are then pressed into the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach and subjected to a thorough 
mixing. 

The gastric juice is an acid fluid which may be secreted in 
large quantities — as much as one or two gallons in 24 hours. 
Its acidity is due to the presence of about 0.2 per cent, to 0.4 
per cent, of hydrochloric acid. This of itself is capable; of 
causing protein to swell and to some extent dissolve; of 
hydrolyzing the collagen of connective tissue; of decalcifying 
bone ; and of preventing bacterial action. 

The gastric juice contains two enzymes which act on pro- 
tein, pepsin and rennin. Pepsin can act only in the presence 
of a definite percentage of hydrochloric acid, while rennin 
acts in a neutral solution. The relations of rennin and pep- 
sin are not yet very clearly understood. The function of 
rennin is to curdle milk, which causes it to remain in the 
stomach long enough to be digested by the pepsin. 

Action of Pepsin. The protein of the diet, more or less 
swollen, softened, and dissolved by the action of hydrochloric 
acid, is changed chemically by pepsin, into a series of in- 
creasingly simpler and more soluble products, namely, acid 
proteins, proteoses (often called albumoses) and peptones. 
The change to peptones is not complete, but these three 
products of peptic digestion tend to pass together into the 
intestine, when the pyloric sphincter which guards the en- 
trance to the duodenum opens to let them pass. The opening 
and closing of this sphincter is controlled by two factors: 
1. The consistency of the partly digested food, solid particles 
tending to keep the pylorus closed. 2. The presence of free 
hydrochloric acid in the stomach contents. This is the more 
important factor. 

Protein is capable of absorbing and uniting chemically with 



38 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

a certain amount of acid. When it is so saturated, free acid 
will be present, having now nothing with which to combine, 
and this free acid is the stimulus which causes the pyloric 
sphincter to relax and lets a little spurt of food into the 
duodenum. Once in the duodenum, this same acid acts as 
the stimulus to close the pylorus, and no more food enters the 
duodenum until the first portion has been neutralized, 

A clear understanding of the way in which the pyloric 
sphincter is regulated throws considerable light on stomach 
digestion. We can understand why a certain quantity of in- 
digestible residue, such as is present in most of our staple 
foods — meats, vegetables, fruits, etc. — is of service in re- 
taining food within the stomach for a time, giving the 
hydrochloric acid a chance to exercise its bactericidal power, 
and favoring thorough gastric digestion. It also explains 
why a meal of " bolted " food (or of food imperfectly masti- 
cated through absence of teeth), or a failure of free hydro- 
chloric acid in the stomach contents, as in hypoacidity or 
achylia gastrica, may set up such a continuous state of pyloric 
contraction that the stomach remains unemptied for a long 
period, with a good prospect of fermentation and gas pro- 
duction, of relief by vomiting, or of an attack of acute in- 
digestion, biliousness or diarrhoea. The nurse will under- 
stand why a diet of " liquids ^* for a person in relatively 
good health does not prove satisfactory. Liquids do not stay 
long enough in the stomach to give a sense of fullness, give 
the stomach little to do, and tend to pass into the intestine 
poorly prepared for the action of the digestive juices there. 

Digestion in the Intestines. On entering the duodenum, 
the acid chyme from the stomach meets three secretions, all 
alkaline in reaction, namely, the pancreatic juice, the bile, 
and the intestinal juice. 

The hydrochloric acid of the stomach is indirectly respon- 
sible for the flow of the pancreatic juice, for this begins only 
after acid food has entered the duodenum. The pancreatic 
juice contains an enzyme capable of digesting protein only 
after it has come into contact with the intestinal juice.' This 



DIGESTION 



39 



enzyme is then called trypsin, and the changes which it pro- 
duces in protein are similar to those produced by pepsin; it 
acts, however^ in an alkaline medium. 

The products of tryptic digestion BLre therefore alkali prO" 
tein, proteoses (albumoses) and peptones. 

The bile plays no significant part in protein digestion, ex* 
cept as it helps to neutralize the chyme. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme called erepsin, 
which completes the digestion of protein, breaking down the 
proteoses and peptones formed by pepsin and trypsin into 
still less complex compounds called amino acids. These are 
the ** end-products *' of protein digestion. The digestive 
process can go no farther. There are no enzymes acting on 
proteins in the large intestines. 

Summary. The chemical changes in protein during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : 



PABTOF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZTMSS 

ACTING ON 
PROTEIN 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYME ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


None 


None 


stomach 


Gastric Juice 


Rennin 

Pepsin and Hy- 
drochloric acid 


Coagulates milk 

fAcid Protein, 
« Proteoses, 
Peptones 


Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 

Bile 

Intestinal Juice 


Trypsin (in alka- 
line medium) 

None 

Erepsin (acts 
only on proteo- 
ses and pep- 
tones) 


fAlkali Protein, 
' Proteoses, 
[Peptones 

None 

Amino Acids 



40 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

DIOESTION or EAT 

Fat is not acted upon by the secretions of the mouth nor 
to any great extent by those of the stomach. The gastric 
juice contains an enzyme, called gastric lipase, which ha& the 
power of acting on emulsified fats, such as in cream or yolk 
of eggs. It plays a more important part in the digestion of 
infants than of adults. 

The presence of fat in the stomach retards the secretion of 
gastric juice. Hence a certain excess of fat in the stoinach 
is sufficient to close the pylorus for a longer or shorter time, 
due to the failure of the appearance of free hydrochloric acid. 
This doubtless accounts for the fact that fat in the diet often 
seems to retard and otherwise disturb digestion. 

Digestion of fat takes place mainly in the small intestines. 
The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called steapsin, which 
has the power of emulsifying fats and also of splitting them 
into fatty acids and glycerine. 

The bile contains no such enzymes, but it is nevertheless an 
important factor in the digestion of fat. It has the power of 
increasing greatly the activity of the pancreatic lipase (steap- 
sin), and of holding in solution the fatty acids formed by 
its action, so that they are more perfectly absorbed. When 
bile is lacking, much of the fat fails of absorption and is 
excreted through the intestines. Emulsification is an im- 
portant aid in the splitting of fat into fatty acids and glycer- 
ine, the forms in which fat is chiefly absorbed. 

DIGESTION OF CARBOHYDRATES 

1. Digestion of Starch, There is little doubt that prim- 
itive man accomplished much of the digestion of starch in the 
mouth. The saliva contains two enzymes, ptyalin, and maU 
tase. By the action of ptyalin starch is changed to dextrins 
and these to maltose; by the action of maltase, maltose is 
converted into dextrose, the end-product of salivary digestion. 
The crude uncooked food required prolonged mastication be- 
fore it could be swallowed, and during this mastication the 
enzymes had opportunity for action. Eaw starch is so very 



DIGESTION 41 

slowly affected by enzymes, that much of the food value of un- 
cooked cereals is lost, so that the practice of baking ground 
grain into bread developed very early. This fact in regard 
to starch digestion is often disregarded by advocates of a re- 
turn to raw foods. 

There is said to be some evidence that a pharyngeal reflex 
once existed which prevented the bolting of foods which are 
capable of salivary digestion, or which are not easily di- 
gestible without mastication. In recent years, Mr. Horace 
Fletcher has counseled a return to prolonged mastication, in 
order that salivary digestion may be carried to its fullest ex- 
tent. It is claimed that the more perfect utilization of all 
food eaten necessitates the taking of a smaller amount. 
There is no doubt that thorough mastication fenders the di- 
gestion of starch easier and more complete, but it will not 
greatly alter the total food requirement. 

The starchy food mixed with saliva passes from the mouth 
to the stomach and lodges in the fundus, the portions last 
eaten always going to the center of the mass. Thus, while 
the gastric juice is at work upon the outer layer, attacking 
the protein of the diet, the inner portions remain alkaline for 
a considerable time, so that salivary digestion may continue 
undisturbed. 

From time to time, the soluble products of salivary and 
gastric digestion pass into the small intestine. Here the con- 
version of starch and intermediate products into simple sugars 
is completed. The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called 
amylopsin, which acts like ptyalin, i. e., changes starch to 
dextrins, and finally to maltose. 

The intestinal juice contains an enzyme capable of chang- 
ing maltose to dextrose, the final product in starch digestion. 

Summary: The chemical changes in starch during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table : - 



42 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 


ENZYMES 

ACTING ON 

STARCH 


PRODUCTS OF 
ENZYMF 
ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Ptyalin 
Maltase 


TDextrins 
Maltose 

Dextrose 


Stomach 


Gastric Juice 


None 




Small Intestine 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Amylopsin 
Maltase 


fDextrins 
Maltose 

Dextrose 



2. Digestion of Sugars. Although sugars are perfectly 
soluble and easily absorbed, they must all be converted into 
monosaccharides or simple sugars (chiefly dextrose), before 
they can be utilized by the body. Hence we find a number 
of enzymes in the alimentary tract acting upon disaccharides. 
Two of these have already been indicated in discussing the 
digestion of starch, i. e., the maltases of the saliva and in- 
testinal juice, which convert each molecule of maltose into 
two of dextrose. In the stomach, a slight hydrolysis of the 
disaccharides may occur through the influence of the hydro- 
chloric acid. In the intestines, provision is made for their 
complete transformation. Both the pancreatic and intestinal 
juices contain enzymes of this type. In young animals, or 
older individuals on a milk diet, the pancreatic juice con- 
tains lactase, which converts lactose (milk sugar) into dex- 
trose and galactose. The intestinal juice contains three such 
enzymes, sucrase, acting on sucrose (cane sugar) ; lactase, 
acting on lactose ; and maltase, acting on maltose. 

Summary. The chemical changes in sugar during the 
process of digestion are shown in the following table: 



DIGESTION 



43 



PART OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 


NAME 

OF 
SECRETION 


ENZTMES 

ACTING ON 

SUGARS 


PRODUCTS 

OF ENZYME 

ACTION 


Mouth 


Saliva 


Maltase 


Dextrose 


Small Intestines 


Pancreatic Juice 
Intestinal Juice 


Lactase (at 
times) 

Lactase 

Maltase 

Sucrase 


fDextrose 
\Galactose 

fDextrose 
^Galactose ^ 

Dextrose 

fDextrose 
"[Levulose 



Mineral Matter and Water require no changes to prepare 
them for absorption. 

RESUME OF DIGESTION 

The processes of digestion are both mechanical and chem^ 
ical. By mechanical processes the foods are first softened 
and finely divided, so as to be non-irritating to the walls of 
the alimentary tract, and to expose as much surface as pos- 
sible to the action of the digestive enzymes; secondly, they 
are moved along the alimentary tract from time to time, to 
facilitate digestion and absorption, and to expel indigestible 
residues. The movements of the mouth in mastication, of 
the oesophagus in swallowing, and of the intermediate and 
pyloric regions of the stomach in mixing the food with the 
gastric juice; the rhythmic and peristaltic movements of the 
small intestines, by which the food is alternately churned in 
a stationary position and then pushed along to a new region 
to repeat the process; and finally, the anti-peristaltic move- 
ments of the first part of the large intestines and the slow 
peristalsis throughout its entire length, form a series of events 
of tremendous importance to the welfare of the organism. 

By chemical processes, complex food-stuffs are converted 
into simpler substances out of which the body can build the 



44 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



compounds essential to its persistence and activity. The di- 
gestive fluids and the enzymes contained therein, with the 
results of their activity, are most readily indicated by the 
following table: 



PART OP 


NAME OF 
SECRETION 


REACTION 


KN7VMK^ 


FOOD 


PRODUCTS OF 


ALIMENTARY 
TRACT 


TO 
LITMUS 


PRESENT 


PRINCIPLES 
ACTED UPON 


ENZYME 
ACTION 


Month 


Saliva 


Alkaline 


Ptyalin 


Starch 


f Soluble 
J Starch* 
1 Dextrins 












I Maltose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 


Stomach 


Gastric 
Juice 


Acid 

(0.2%- 
0.4% 
H CI.) 


Pepsin 


Proteins 


fAcid 
J Protein 
1 Proteoses 
I Peptones 

ft 








Rennin 


Protein 
(especially 
casein of 
milk) 


Coagulated 
Protein 








Lipase 


Emulsified 
Fats 


Fatty acids 
and 
glycerine 


Small 


Pancreatic 


Alkaline 


Trypsin 


Proteins 


C Alkali 


Intestines 


Juice 








J Protein 
j Proteoses 
L Peptones 








Steapsin 


Fats 


" emulsified 
Fat — 
- Fatty 

acids and 
glycerine 








Amylopsin 


Starch 


f Soluble 
J Starch — . 
1 Dextrins — 
I Maltose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose 
and 








(in young 


(Milk 








animals) 


Sugar) 


L Galactose 




Intestinal 


Alkaline 


Erepsin 


Proteins in 


Amino 




Juice 






the form of 

Proteoses 

and 


Acids 








Sucrase 


Peptones 
Sucrose 


Dextrose and 
Levulose 








Maltase 


Maltose 


Dextrose 








Lactase 


Lactose 


Dextrose and 
Galactose 



The bile contains no important enzymes, but greatly facilitates the diges- 
tion of fats. The intestinal juice contains an enzyme which makes trypsin 
an active enzyme, and a substance which helps to stimulate the flow of 
pancreatic juice. 



DIGESTION 45 

Inspection of the table on page 44 shows that there are five 
so-called digestive juices, viz. : saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic 
juice, bile, and intestinal juice. All are produced intermit- 
tently except the bile, which is secreted continuously into the 
gall-bladder and discharged at intervals into the intestine. 
All are alkaline except the gastric juice. All contain power- 
ful enzymes except the bile. Enzymes which digest protein 
occur in the gastric juice (pepsin), the pancreatic juice (tryp- 
sin), and the intestinal juice (erepsin). Ferments which 
transform starch to sugar occur especially in the saliva and 
pancreatic juices, and are commonly known as diastatic 
enzymes. Ptyalin is an old name for salivary diastase, amy- 
lopsin for pancreatic diastase. 

The principal fat-splitting enzyme occurs in the pan- 
creatic juice, and is known as pancreatic lipase or steapsin. 
Numerous enzymes of minor importance occur in the gastric, 
pancreatic, and intestinal juices. Bile in itself is able to 
emulsify fat as a step toward digestion. 

FACTORS DETEBXINIK6 BATE OF DIGESTION 

We know of the existence of many factors which influence 
salivary and gastric digestion, but much less about intestinal 
digestion. Among these are the nature of the food, cook- 
ery, appetite, mastication, palatability, mental state, amount 
of fluid in the meal, the pyloric reflexes, etc. The nature of 
the individual plays a powerful role; some individuals can 
subsist almost wholly upon one or a few articles, while others 
quickly revolt against monotony of diet. Idiosyncrasy is 
another important factor ; for example, some individuals can- 
not eat mutton, however disguised, while in others sugar is 
so strong a stimulant to peristalsis that it sets up a violent 
diarrhoea. The above being true of presumably healthy peo- 
ple, the factors which may influence digestion in the sick, 
invalid and convalescent must be still more uncertain. 
Hence tables which purport to give the relative digestibility 
of foods must be studied with allowances. We can study this 
problem in test tubes, or by examining the washings from the 



46 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

stomach after definite meals or in fistula patients, but the 
results can hardly be applied forthwith to all persons. 

The direct stimuli to the secretion of saliva are the sight, 
odor or taste of food; or the mechanical irritation produced 
by contact of food-stuffs with the mouth. Indirectly, the 
thought of food may be a psychic stimulus to the flow of 
saliva. Excitement may so check the flow of saliva that it 
is impossible to swallow dry food. 

The stimuli to the secretion of gastric juice are both psychic 
and chemical, Pawlow has demonstrated, in the case of 
dogs, that the sight of food or the chewing of food in the 
mouth may produce a very effective flow of gastric juice, to 
which he attributes great importance in digestion. How im- 
portant this preliminary flow before food enters the stomach 
may be in the case of man has not been very clearly demon- 
strated, but it seems reasonable that the desire for eating, the 
act of eating and the pleasure obtained therefrom exercise 
a favorable influence upon gastric secretion. It has recently 
been shown that the products of salivary digestion act as 
a stimulus to the flow of gastric juice, and that once the 
process of gastric digestion is initiated, the products of pep- 
tic activity cause the continuance of the secretion as long 
as the food remains in the stomach. The mere mechanical 
irritation caused by the presence of food in the stomach is 
ineffective. Thus white of egg will cause no flow. But cer- 
tain substances, such as meat extracts, bitters and condiments, 
promote secretion. The use of meat broths, gelatin jellies, 
peptones (i. e., products of gastric digestion), and toast (con- 
taining dextrins or products of salivary digestion), at the 
beginning of a meal, or to promote feeble gastric digestion in 
an invalid, is therefore a rational practice. 

ABSORPTION 

While absorption through a permeable animar membrane 
outside the body may be a simple physical process, following 
the ordinary laws of pressure, diffusion, osmosis, etc., the case 



ABSORPTION 47 

is far otherwisiB in the alimentary tract, where the selective 
activity of the living cell becomes a positive factor. The 
pressure in secreting glands rises above blood pressure; sub- 
stances pass inward to the body through the mucous mem- 
brane without a corresponding movement in the opposite di- 
rection. Thus blood serum, placed in a loop of intestine is 
promptly absorbed, but if the loop be surrounded with serum, 
it does not pass in a similar manner into the lumen of the 
section of intestine. 

The stomach is not primarily an absorbing organ, but a few 
substances, such as sugars and peptones, pass to a limited 
extent through its walls. The most important seat of absorp- 
tion is the small intestine, and second, the large intestine. 
Absorption in the small intestine is affected through the in- 
numerable little projections with which the intestine is lined, 
known as villi, which greatly extend the amount of surface. 
These villi contain a capillary network and a so-called lac- 
teal space. The capillaries by converging into larger vessels 
eventually form the portal vein which passes through the 
liver. The lacteal spaces are prolonged into lymphatic ves- 
sels which similarly converge to form the thoracic duct. The 
lacteals are intended almost wholly for the absorption of the 
fats, all other digestive products passing through the liver 
before reaching the general circulation. 

Absorption continues throughout the length of the large 
intestine, being especially flavored by antiperistalsis in the 
upper portions. Constipation sometimes results from the 
great absorptive power of this region, the feces being left dry 
and hard and hence diflScult to evacuate. 

Absorption of Protein. This question still continues to be 
a riddle. At some point, either in the intestinal walls and 
villi or blood vessels, or in the blood itself, the amino acids 
formed in digestion are united to form body protein. We do 
not know how or where this transformation occurs. It is 
certain that a small amount of humanized albumin reaches 
the blood through the thoracic duct. The rest must enter the 
portal circulation and pass through the liver into the general 



48 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

blood stream. The end products of peptic digestion seldom 
are found in the blood, and when present, tend to pass at once 
into the urine. When food albumin for any reason enters 
the blood, it does not act as, blood albumin, but is at once 
excreted by the kidneys as a poison. Proteoses and peptones 
behave similarly. As animals may be made to live in health 
on a diet of end products alone, we know that these repre- 
sent the utilizable portion of food albumin. 

Absorption of Fat. It is now commonly believed that fat 
is absorbed in the form of the end products of its digestion, 
i, e., fatty acids and glycerine, and that somewhere in the 
intestinal wall these are recombined into neutral fat. It is 
possible that some of the finely emulsified fat is able to pass 
unchanged through the intestinal wall. In either case, mi- 
nute fat droplets pass into the lacteals, and finally into the 
blood stream by way of the thoracic duct. A small portion 
finds its way directly into the blood. 

Fats having a low melting point are absorbed more quickly 
than solid fats, and pure fat more readily than fat inter- 
mingled with other food principles, as in fat meat, for ex- 
ample. 

Absorption of Carbohydrates, The end products of carbo- 
hydrate digestion pass to the blood by way of the portal sys- 
tem. The monosaccharides on reaching the liver enter the 
general circulation as dextrose if required for immediate use ; 
otherwise they are stored in the liver in the form of glycogen, 
which can be again transformed into sugar when demanded 
by the system to furnish energy. Sugars are so readily ab- 
sorbed that if taken in large quantities the body may be un- 
able to utilize them, and the excess is excreted in the urine. 
This is especially true in case of an excess of cane sugar or 
milk sugar. They may be absorbed before digestion, and 
there are no enzymes in the blood capable of converting them 
into dextrose so that they can be burned or stored. Under 
such circumstances they are useless and must be gotten rid of. 
If maltose is absorbed too rapidly, it may still be changed to 
dextrose by enzymes in the blood or tissues, and so be utilized. 



ABSORPTION 49 

Absorption of Mineral Matter. As salts are not digested 
in the ordinary sense of the word, they require nothing more 
than solution in the digestive fluids before absorption. The 
mineral matter is set free from food and diffuses more or less 
rapidly into the surrounding fluids. Common salt is most 
quickly absorbed. The chief locality for absorption is the 
small intestines. The older text books taught that salts 
were absorbed only by diffusion through the intestinal wally 
which required that another solution must at the same time 
pass from the blood to the intestines until both fluids were 
of the same degree of concentration. It appears, however, 
that in the main, mineral matter is taken upl in the intestinal 
wall without diffusion, and as fast as it can be incorporated 
with certain peculiar solvents is absorbed into the blood. 

Absorption of Water, Water is not absorbed by the stom- 
ach, but passes quickly in little spurts (if taken alone) into 
the intestines. Here it is very rapidly absorbed; it may be 
excreted through the kidneys within twenty minutes after 
ingestion. The rapidity of absorption may be considerably 
influenced by mineral matter dissolved in the water. 

Summary, Absorption is an active, not a passive process. 
It takes place mainly in the intestines, the larger part before 
the food reaches the ileo-cecal valve. 

Proteins are absorbed by the villi, chiefly in the form of 
amino acids and pass through the portal vein to the liver. 

Fats are absorbed by the lacteals, chiefly in the form of 
fatty acids and glycerine, but pass to the lymphatics as neu- 
tral fat, and enter the blood stream from the thoracic duct. 

Carbohydrates are absorbed by the villi in the form of su- 
gar (chiefly dextrose) and pass through the portal vein to 
the liver. 

Unabsorbed material forms the feces (see Excretion, page 
53). Undigested proteins, fats and carbohydrates are liable 
to attack by putrefactive and fermentative organisms in the 
intestines. The products of such bacterial action are absorbed 
to a considerable extent. Carbohydrates which escape diges- 
tion tend to produce lactic and other acids. This fermenta- 



50 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

tion is not altogether an evil, for it cheeks the putrefaction 
of undigested meat. The latter is undesirable, as the products 
are likely to prove toxic. It is for this reason that lactic acid, 
especially in the form of buttermilk and artificially fermented 
sour milk, is largely employed as a remedial agent in intes- 
tinal indigestion. 

HETABOUSH 

Metabolism is the sum of the chemical changes taking place 
in the cells of the body in connection with all biological 
processes, including growth, repair and waste, generation and 
maintenance of heat, all manifestations of functional activity, 
storage of surplus nutriment, etc. It comprises two phases, 
anabolism and katabolism. 

Anabolism embraces the changes involved in the upbuilding 
of the cells, and corresponds in a general way to nutrition. 
Assimilation is the selective act of the cells in appropriating 
the special form of nutriment in the circulating blood which 
is suited for their needs. The special phases of anabolism 
comprise the assimilation of nitrogen for growth and repair 
of protoplasm, the storage of a certain amount of fat and 
carbohydrate, the assimilation of oxygen for maintenance of 
heat and functional activity, and the retention of inorganic 
salts in the bones and other tissues. 

Katabolism comprises the changes involved in the contin- 
uous molecular waste of the cells; in the constant oxidation 
going on in the tissues; in the maintenance of animal heat; 
in the exercise of muscular, nervous and secretory activity; 
and perhaps in the breaking up of protein into oxidizable 
carbohydrates and nitrogenous waste products. We speak 
less of the acts of katabolism than of the products of katabo- 
lism, which are a measure of those acts. The chief of these 
products are: (1) urea, the chief form of excretion of ni- 
trogen, and (2) carbon dioxide and water, which represent 
the products of energy-yielding oxidations. 

Elimination is the escape or expulsion of the products of 



METABOLISM 51 

katabolism from the* tissues into the blood, and corresponds 
to disassimilation or denutrition. Excretion is th^ final ex- 
pulsion of the end products of katabolism from the excretory 
organs and includes the expulsion of unabsorbed aliment by 
the bowel. 

In the case of certain products of metabolism, it is hardly 
possible to state positively whether they represent anabolism 
or katabolism. Here belong especially the substances formed 
in connection with secretion, as the digestive enzymes, the 
hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the iodothyrin of the 
thyroid gland and the adrenalin of the suprarenal gland. In 
all likelihood both factors participate, for certain substances 
must be assimilated from the food to form these bodies which 
in turn are set free in the blood. It is also true that some 
of these substances act by their mere presence, without ap- 
parent waste (catalytic action). 

Metabolism of Protein. A relatively small proportion of 
protein is normally disposed of by oxidation for energy-forma- 
tion, when carbohydrates and fats enter fully into the diet. 
But in their absence, protein, by virtue of the fact that it con- 
tains the elements of carbohydrates and fats (carbon, hydro- 
gen and oxygen) in its molecule, can furnish all the heat and 
force required. Certain savages subsist wholly on meat and 
remain in good health, and in the so-called Salisbury treat- 
ment of obesity, etc., it can be demonstrated at will that a 
patient may subsist for weeks on raw beef without apparent 
detriment, provided plenty of water is drunk, the excess of 
water aiding in the elimination of unutilized protein. 

When absorbed protein reaches the liver, a large part of the 
nitrogen is split off and excreted as urea. The remaining 
portion goes to make good the small daily waste of body 
protein. The portion of the protein molecule left after the 
nitrogen is split off is available as fuel. When carbohydrates 
and fats are liberally supplied, so that protein is not required 
for fuel, the daily amount needed is comparatively small. 
Even when the body is losing nitrogen rapidly, as in certain 
fevers^ it has been found that this is partly because the body 



52 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

protein is being used as fuel, and ih% loss can be largely 
prevented by furnishing more energy in the form of carbo- 
hydrate o'r fat. Much confusion has arisen because the excess 
of nitrogen in the diet is to some extent identical in form 
with' the waste products of cellular activity. Besides urea, 
some of the chief nitrogenous products of protein metabolism 
are ammonium salts, uric acid, creatin and creatinin. 

The non-nitrogenous portion of protein may be burned or 
possibly stored, but the nitrogen excess must be eliminated. 
Because of the fact that excess of nitrogen throws work on the 
kidneys, it is assumed that an excessive protein diet is injuri- 
ous to the integrity of these organs. This is evident in dis- 
eased kidneys, but cannot be proved for healthy organs. 
However, it seems unnecessary to consume a. great excess of 
protein and perhaps unwise, owing to the great frequency of 
fatal kidney diseases. At any rate, except where protein is 
specially advantageous for ease of digestion, it is unnecessary 
to make it a large part of the diet. 

Metdholism of Fat, Fat, which is passed into the blood 
from the thoracic duct, is carried over the body and deposited 
in many organs and tissues, unless needed for immediate use 
as a source of energy, in which case it is oxidized to carbon 
dioxide and water. It has been shown that diet-fat may be 
deposited in the body in the same form as eaten, but the 
readiest means of forming body fat is usually to give an 
excess of carbohydrate. The ease with which carbohydrates 
form fat is shown in the case of cows which produce large 
quantities of butter fat on an herbivorous diet. It is also 
possible to form fat from protein, but it is difficult, as a con- 
siderable part of the energy of the protein molecule goes to 
get rid of the nitrogen, and protein increases the rate of metab- 
olism. We know very little of the details of fat metabolism. 
Some investigators hold that it must be converted into dex- 
trose before it can be oxidized. As already stated, an excess 
of carbohydrate may be stored in the form of fat. 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates, The blood maintains a con- 
stant sugar content of about 1.5 per cent. As fast as this 



EXCRETION 55 

sugar is oxidized, it is feplaced by more from the store of 
glycogen in the liver and muscles, or from newly-formed 
sugar of recently digested food. The final products of carbo- 
hydrate oxidation are carbon dioxide and water, but several 
intermediate products (as lactic acid) are first formed, prob- 
ably by the action of enzymes. 

When the body is unable to store any more carbohydrate as 
glycogen, all further storage of excess is in the form of fat. 

When sugar is lacking in the blood, as in starvation or 
failure to utilize carbohydrates, the sugar content is main- 
tained at the expense of protein. This explains why the dia- 
betic who is eating no carbohydrate, may still excrete sugar 
in the urine. There is some experimental evidence that su- 
gar may be formed also from fat. At any rate, fat is oxidized 
in absence of carbohydrate, and whether it is first changed to 
sugar, or oxidized directly, it is a compact means of storing 
energy, since one gram of fat will yield 2i/4 times as much 
as an equal amount of protein or carbohydrate. 

EXCRETION 

The waste products of metabolism and all unutilized food, 
along with the products of oxidation, are eliminated from the 
system in several ways. Water escapes through the lungs,, 
skin and kidneys. Aside from the obvious fluid perspiration,, 
a steady evaporation takes place from the skin (insensible 
perspiration). The carbon dioxide produced by oxidation 
escapes by the lungs, and nitrogenous products of protein me- 
tabolism by the urine. The feces are made up chiefly of the 
residues of food, but also contain biliary matters and other 
products of the body. W^hen there is excessive putrefaction 
of the fecal matter, some of the soluble material is absorbed 
and eliminated in the urine. Generally speaking, putrefac- 
tion (of nitrogenous food) and fermentation (of carbohy- 
drates) hold each other in chwk. It is known that fasting 
and starving people pass some feces, thus showing that the 
bowel is a true excretory organ. 



CHAPTER III 
FOOD VALUES 

ITITBOi^EN BALANCE — ENERGY VALUE OF FOOD 

We are now in position to understand something of food 
Talues, which depend on the food actually utilized in the body, 
to the exclusion of food unabsorbed, or eliminated because in 
excess of the demands of the system. Energy-yielding ma- 
terial which is not used at the time may be stored, but be- 
yond a certain point, stored nutriment must be regarded as 
undesirable, as in obese subjects. 

As stated by Atwater, the food supplies body wants in five 
-ways: (1) tissue-building, (2) tissue-repairing, (3) storage 
for future use, (4) oxidation to maintain animal heat and (5) 
oxidation to supply energy; or we may say that according to 
function, foods are classified as tissue-formers, or body-build- 
ers; energy (or work and heat) producers; and regulators of 
body processes. (See page 5.) 

NITROGEN BALANCE OR NITROGEN EQUILIBRIirM 

In body building and repairing, the nitrogen of protein 
food is indispensable. In the other functions, nitrogen is not 
utilized. Carbohydrates and fats are the natural and con- 
yenient sources of energy, although the protein contains in 
itself non-nitrogenous material capable of oxidation. As al- 
ready stated, however, to depend largely upon protein for 
oxidizable food means the ingestion of an enormous quantity 
of unnecessary nitrogen, the getting rid of which involves 
waste of energy and is thought to necessitate a strain upon 
the excretory system. Furthermore, when the diet consists 
ohiefly of protein, much of the latter may not be digested and 
absorbed as such, but may remain in the intestine, there to 

54 



NITROGEN BALANCE 55 

undergo putrefactive changes. In the course of putrefaction 
certain soluble poisonous substances form and are absorbed^ 
requiring elimination by the kidneys. The excess of nitrogen 
which cannot be utilized in tissue repair must also be elimi- 
nated by the kidneys. Thus while people may thrive on & 
diet rich in protein, there is considerable evidence that vital- 
ity, endurance and resistance to disease are better attained 
with a diet in which the fuel foods (carbohydrates and fats) 
predominate. 

Nitrogen cannot be stored to any extent and is constantly 
eliminated in the urine as urea and other nitrogenous sub- 
stances. When the diet-nitrogen corresponds in amount with 
the eliminated nitrogen, the metabolism of nitrogen is bal- 
anced, or in a state of equilibrium. If too small a quantity 
of nitrogenous food is taken it does not compensate for the 
waste of body nitrogen which is inseparable from life. The 
same thing occurs when for any reason the food nitrogen is. 
not absorbed, or is eliminated without being utilized. Thia 
condition of nitrogen starvation is characteristic of under* 
feeding, wasting diseases, defective assimilation, etc. Con- 
versely equilibrium between food nitrogen and excreted ni- 
trogen represents good nutrition, health and energy ; for while 
nitrogen cannot be permanently stored, it is possible for a 
balance to be maintained over long periods. It was once 
taught that increased elimination of nitrogen was due chiefly 
to the waste of tissue incidental to prolonged and severe 
muscular or nervous effort ; at a later period, however, it be- 
came apparent that this waste was comparatively little, and 
constant for the individual regardless of the amount of muscu- 
lar exercise, so that the urea nitrogen depends chiefly on the 
amount of diet nitrogen. The loss of nitrogen in wasting 
disease, starvation, etc., is, however, extensive ; so that in con- 
valescence the body is able to store some nitrogen. 

Nitrogen retention is greatly facilitated in all cases by a 
liberal supply of carbohydrates and fats. 

Nitrogen metabolism can hardly be studied in the ordinary 
patient, on account of the number and variety of tests which 



56 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

must be accurately made, so that our only guide is the res-ults 
of scientific investigation of the amounts of nitrogen required 
Tinder given conditions, and the general well-being of the 
subject. If weight is maintained, along with a healthy state 
of functions, the ration in question is suitable for the sub- 
ject tested. If the individual be in the growing period, the 
ration should be such that the growth rate is normal. If 
he be a convalescent, the recovery of the original weight should 
be constantly progressive. Of late years, however, the em- 
phasis on nitrogen values alone has been largly superseded 
by greater attention to total fuel values as being of greater 
practical worth. It is known that a relatively small and 
easily obtained quantity of nitrogen is sufficient to repair waste 
in the average individual, but the food required for producing 
energy is very significant in amount. With a liberal supply 
of carbohydrates and fats, the ordinary daily waste of nitrogen 
in one adult may be reduced as low as 3 to 4 grams daily 
(corresponding to 20 to 25 grams of protein). 

To insure a full supply of nitrogen, and to maintain ni- 
trogen equilibrium at a higher level than the bare maintenance 
requirement, considerably more than this amount is commonly 
taken. From 80 to 100 grams of protein per day is re- 
garded as a liberal supply for an average man (weighing 70 
kilograms or 154 lbs.) on an ordinary mixed diet of suitable 
energy value. 

THE ENEHGY VALUE OF FOOD 

s 

In Liebig's time it was recognized that animal heat was 
generated by carbohydrates and fats, but the physiologists of 
that day did not realize that these were the nutrients which 
furnished the body with energy for its activity. They 
thought that all muscular work was done at the expense of 
nitrogenous material. It has taken many years for us to 
realize fully that animal energy in all its forms is derived 
primarily from carbohydrate material, secondly from fats, and 
thirdly from proteins only in so far as they yield combustible, 
Bon-nitrogenous bodies. 



ENERGY VALUE 57 

Energ}^ may be defined as the power to do work. This 
force manifests itself in different ways. It may be latent, 
or inactive; or it may be active in various forms, such as 
heat; chemical or electrical energy; or mechanical movement, 
which we call work. It may be changed from one of these 
forms into another without loss. The most convenient way to 
measure energy is by transforming it into heat. A unit has 
been devised to express different amounts of heat, correspond- 
ing to a definite number of work units; this is called the 
calorie. One calorie represents the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water one degree 
Centigrade. This is called the large calorie, which is com- 
monly used in determining the energy value of food. The 
small calorie is nAnr of a large calorie. 

Energy cannot be created. We must put into any machine 
as much force as we expect to get from it. Even in the most 
efficient machine we cannot recover all of the energy in the 
form of useful work ; some of it is^ always transformed into 
heat, owing to friction. This is true even in the bod}^ which 
is a most efficient machine, but here much of the waste energy 
in the form of heat is turned to good account in maintaining 
the body temperature. 

The source of energy for the body is food, just as much as 
the source of energy for the engine is coal. Plants store up 
the sun's energy, it is transferred to animals which eat the 
plants, and eventually man gets it by eating the plant and 
animal foods. The amount of energy in any given food ma- 
terial is measured by the amount of heat which it will pro- 
duce. In general, this is the same, whether the food be 
burned outside or inside the body;^ the total result in any case 
depending upon the amount of the food-stuff wj;iich is utilized 
by the body. 

An instrument devised for the measurement of heat is 
called a calorimeter. To determine the fuel value of any 
food material outside of the body, a given amount is placed 
in a calorimeter, where it is burned in an atrnosphere of pure 
oxygen, in a vessel surrounded by water. The heat generated 



58 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

raises the temperature of the water, and the change is ob- 
served with a very delicate thermometer. From this the 
total heat evolved is calculated. To determine the fuel value 
of this material within the body, the average amount which 
is lost ill digestion, or which is not completely oxidized before 
excretion, is deducted from the fuel value outside the body. 
The result is the physiological fuel value. Many years ago, 
Rubner determined averages for proteins, fats, and carbohy- 
drates from experiments on dogs. In recent times, further 
experiments made in this country on human subjects by Prof. 
Atwater and his assocfates have modified these factors some- 
what. The following are therefore accepted as the average 
energy values of food in the body to-day : 

1 gram of Protein yields 4 Calories 

1 gram of Fat yields 9 Calories 

1 gram of Carbohydrate . . . yields 4 Calories 

BETEKMIHATIOH OF ENEKGY VALITE OF FOOD 

To determine the energy value of a given amount of any 
food, it is necessary to know first its composition, i. e., the 
percentages of protein, fat, and carbohydrate present. Tables 
are available giving the results of many analyses, as in Bulle- 
tin 28, Office of Experiment Station, XJnited States Dept. of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C, **The Chemical Composi- 
tion of American Food Materials.^' 

Second. From these percentages to determine the weight 
of protein fat and carbohydrate in grams, which can be ob- 
tained from a given amount of the food material. 

Third. To multiply these weights by the energy value of 
one gram of each of the three food principles. 

By way of illustration let us find the fuel value of one loaf 
of bread, weighing 12 ounces. 

(1) By referring to Bulletin 28, we find that white bread 
(miscellaneous) yields on the average, 

9.3 % protein. 
' 1.2 % fat. 
52.7 % carbohydrate. 



ENERGY VALVE 59 

(2) To get the weight of protein, fat and carbohydrate in 
grams, we must first convert the total weight of bread into 
grams, 

1 oz. = 28.35 grams. 
12 oz. = 340.2 grams. 
Then 340.2 X 0.093 = 31.64 grams of protein. 
340.2 X 0.012 = 4.08 grams of fat. 
340.2 X 0.527 = 179.28 grams of carbohydrate. 

(3) Multiplying the amount of each nutrient by the proper 
factor, 

31.64 grams protein X 4=126.56 Calories 

4.08 grams fat X 9 = 36.72 Calories 

179.28 grams carbohydrate X 4 = 717.12 Calories 

Total 880.40 Calories 

Hence the total energy value of 1 loaf of bread weighing 12 
ounces is 880.4 calories. 

To calculate the total energy value of any combination of 
foods, it is necessary to compute the fuel value of each in- 
gredient, and take the sum of the whole group. 

Thus for Egg Broth, page 118, it is necessary first to get 
the weight in grams of each of the following ingredients and 
then to estimate their energy value as indicated above. 

Yolk of 1 egg = 13 grams. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 15 grams. 

1 cup milk = 244 grams. 

1 tablespoon brandy = 14 grams. 

In this book the food values of all the materials used have 
been incorporated into a table, so that by reference to this 
the value of any combination is quickly made. 

Yolk of 1 egg = 48 Calories. 

1 tablespoon sugar = 60 Calories. 

1 cup milk = 169 Calories. 

1 tablespoon brandy i = 42 Calories. 

Total energy value 319 Calories. 

iThe energy value of alcohol is 7 calories per gram. It is necessary, 
therefore, to know the per cent, of alcohol in any liquor. 



60 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

To estimate the fuel value of any diet, it is simply necessary 
to compute the food value of each food material used and add 
the results together. 

To estimate the fuel value of an infant's diet, the following 
formula, adapted to the above factors for energy value from 
Friedenwald and Euhrah's Diet in Health and Disease, is 
very convenient. 

Formula for calculating the Calories of Any Period of 
Infant Feeding: 

(1) Quantity X F X 2.05 = Calories from fat. 

(2) Quantity X (S + P) X 1.18 = Calories from protein and sugar. 

The sum of 1 and 2 gives the total calories. 

Quantity = 24-hour amount in ounces. F, S and P = 
fat, sugar, and protein respectively, with percents in whole 
numbers. 

To illustrate, take a formula of the following composition: 

Protein 0.7% 

Fat 2.7% 

Carbohydrates G.0% 

Feedings per day 9, amount at each finding lyo oz. 

Hence Q = 13.5 oz. (9 X iVz) 
F= 2.7 oz. 
S= 6 oz. 
P= 0.7 oz. 

(1) Q. X F X 2.65 = 13.5 X 2.7 X 2.65 = 96.6 Cal. 

(2) Q. X (S + P) X 1.18 = 13.5 X (6 + 0.7) X 1.18 = 106.7 Cal. 

96.6 4- 106.7 = 203.3 Cal., total for day. 

THE ENERGY EEaiTIREMENTS OF THE BODY 

Work goes on continually in the living body, whether asleep 
or awake, idle or active, sick or well. In the resting body it 
consists of such internal work as that of digestion and absorp- 
tion, circulation, respiration, muscular tension, and intracellu- 
lar work. 

In youth these functions are more active than in adult life ; 
in old age they are somewhat less active. 



ENERGY REQUIREMENT 61 

For a man of average weight (154 lbs. or 70 kg.) from 
1600 to 2000 cal. daily are required to supply energy for 
these internal activities. Children require somewhat more in 
proportion to their body weight, aged persons somewhat less. 
Beyond this, the factor of most significance in determining the 
total food requirement for any individual is the amount of 
muscular activity. A man requiring 100 cal. per hour at 
rest may by hard work raise his energy requirement as high 
as 500 or 600 cal. per hour. For this reason a person en- 
gaged in a sedentary occupation needs less food than one 
whose work is physical, as a farmer or lumberman. Children 
are usually more active than adults, and hence in proportion 
to their weight require more food, while inactive aged per- 
sons require very little. 

Averages obtained from many observations on the amount 
of food consumed by individuals under different conditions, 
show that the energy requirement of the active man of 70 
kgs. body weight is approximately 3000 calories. 

In making estimates for any individual, age, weight, size 
and shape, season and climate, mechanical efficiency, etc., 
must be considered as well as muscular activity. 

During the early months of life, children require about 100 
cal. per kilogram of body weight. Throughout the years of 
childhood, they need about 80 calories per kilogram. The 
adult moderately active, 35-40 cal. per kilogram, and the 
very aged, about 27 cal. per kilogram. 

" The following table, computed by Rubner, shows the daily 
heat consumption, in units of heat (calories) in an adult, 
weighing 65 kilograms or 140 lbs." 

During rest in bed. . 1800 calories or 28 Cal. per kilogram. 

In repose 2100 calories or 32 Cal. per kilogram. 

In light work 2300 calories or 33 Cal. per kilogram. 

In moderate work . . 2600 calories or 40 Cal. per kilogram. 

In hard work 3100 calories or 48 Cal. per kilogram. 

The total energy requirement for individuals under differ- 
ent conditions of age, weight, and activity are approximately 
as indicated in the following table: 



62 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

ENERGY PER DAT 
CONDITIONS IN CALORIES 

Man at light work 2500-2800 Cal. 

Man at moderate work 3000-3500 Cal. 

Man at very hard work 4000-5000 Cal. 

Woman at light work 1800-2400 Cal. 

Woman at moderate work 2400-2800 Cal. 

Child from two to six 1200-1800 Cal. 

Child from six to fifteen 1800-2500 Cal. 

Aged Man 1800-2000 Cal. 

Aged Woman 1600-1800 Cal. 

The most convenient means of calculating the energy value 
is afforded by the following table, determined for the adult 
man of average weight. 

AVEEAGE NOEMAL OTTTPTrr OF HEAT FEOM THE BODY 

AVERAGE 
CONDITIONS OF MUSCULAR ACTIVITY CALORIES PER 

HOUR 

Man at rest, sleeping 65 Calories 

Man at rest, awake, sitting up 100 Calories 

Man at light muscular exercise 170 Calories 

Man at moderately active muscular exercise . . 290 Calories 

Man at severe muscular exercise 450 Calories 

Man at very severe muscular exercise 600 Calories 

To illustrate the use of this table, let us calculate the 
energy requirement of a woman weighing 120 lbs., under 
the following conditions : 

Sleeps 9 hours 9 X 66 = 585 Cal. 

Works at desk 8 hours 8 X 100 = 800 Cal. 

Walks or does light exercise 3 hrs 3 X 170 = 510 Cal. 

Heads or sits quietly sewing 4 hrs 4 X 100 = 400 Cal. 

2295 Cal. 

Since these factors are for a man weighing 154 lbs., for a 
woman of 120 lbs. under above conditions, reduce this pro- 
portionately to her weight, 

154 : 120 : : 2295 : X 

X= 1788 cal. — total energy requirement for 
a woman of 120 lbs., under the above conditions. 



ENERGY REQUIREMENT 63 

The protein requirement is conveniently estimated by pro- 
viding 10-12 per cent, of the day's energy in the form of 
protein. Thus for a man whose energy requirement is 3000 
cal. per day, 360 cal. from protein (12 per cent.) would 
correspond to 90 grams of protein, which would be a fairly 
liberal allowance. 

A tall thin person requires more food than a short fat 
person of equal weight. Also, the person of nervous tem- 
permanent, in whom muscular tension is high, may require 
more food than one of phlegmatic temperament. More en- 
ergy is lost in the form of heat in cold weather than in warm. 
Because of the numerous factors involved in any case, it is 
possible to calculate the absolute energy requirement only 
by rigid scientific experiment. The tables given above, how- 
ever, are a useful guide to the approximate amount of food 
required by different individuals. 

As an aid to easy estimation of the food value of any diet, 
the following tables have been introduced, showing the nutri- 
tive value of the food materials used in the recipes in this 
book, calculated for the quantities commonly required in 
cooking for individuals. 

The values for larger amounts will be easily obtained by 
simple multiplication. 



64 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



TABLE SHOWING THE NTTTKITIVE VALITE OF THE FOOD MA- 
TEKIALS USED IN THE RECIPES IN THIS BOOK, CALCU- 
LATED FOB THE QUANTITIES COMMONLY BEQUIBED IN 
COOKING SMALL PORTIONS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



8 

i 



A 

Almonds, Shelled 

Apples. Fresh 

Dried 

Apricots, Dried , 

Arrowroot 

Asparagus 

B 

Bacon 

Bananas 

Barley, Peari 

" Crushed 

" Flour 

Bass, (edible portion) 

« « M 

Beans, String 

Beef Broth 

Beef Juice 

Beef Marrow 

Beef Steak, Porterhouse.. 

u u u 

« " Rump 

« « u 

' SMoin.V.'."."!!! 

u a u 

' " Top of Round 

a M MUM 



1 cup 

1 medium 
1 cup 

f cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 bunch 



serving 
lb. 

medium 

tbsp. 
tbsp. 
tbsp. 
cup 

serving 
lb. 

serving 

serving 
quart 

serving 

tbsp. 
lb. 

serving 

lb. 

serving 

lb. 

serving 

lb. 

serving 

lb. 






Ozs. 

5.6 

5+ 
3 



44(2^ 
lbs.) 



0.6 
16 

3H 
1 

8 

3H 
16 



3H 
32 

16 

3^ 
16 

3H 
16 

3H 
16 

3^ 
16 



Gms. 

160 

150 
85 

142 

14+ 
1247 



18 
454 

100 

27 
14+ 
16 
227 

ICO 
454 

113 

100 
S07 

100 

14.1 

454 

100 

454 

100 

454. 

100 

454 

100 

454 



'S 

I 



Gms. 

33.6 

0.5 
1.4 

6.6 



22.4 



1.6 
43 

0.8 

2.2 

1.1 

1.3 

19.0 

18.6 
84.3 

2.4 

10.3 
93.4 

4.9 






6 ^ 

6^ 



Gms. 

87.8 

0.5 
1.8 

1.4 

• • • • 

2.4 



10.4 
269.4 

0.4 

0.3 
0.1 
0.2 
2.5 

2.8 
12.6 

0.3 

0.3 
2.7 

0.6 



.31 13 1 
9.92 4:0.8 



Cms. 

27.7 

16 
56.2 

88.5 

13.8 

41.0 



14 

19 

11 

12 

174 



19.1 


18.0 


86.6 


81.2 


21.0 


13.7 


94.8 


62.1 


16.5 


16.1 


74.8 


73.0 


19.5 


7.3 


88.45 


33.1 



8 






PC4 



Calcr- 
ics 

1035 

70 
247 

354 

55 

276 



lOO 

2597 

64 

90 
51 

57 
756 

lOO 
452 

44 

44 

39& 

25 

120 
382& 

23S 
1077 
207 
938 
211 
957 
144 
652 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



65 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



B— (Continued) 

Blue Fish, (edible portion) , 
« « « tf 



Brandy. 
Bran.... 



Brazil Nuts, Shelled. 

m » m 



Bread, White. 



Crumbs (dry). 

Boston Brown. 
« « 

Gum Gluten. . 



Butter. 



Carrots 

Cauliflower. 
Celery 



Cheese, American 

' « (fresh grated). 

• Cottage 

■ Creamed 



Chicken, (edible portion) . 

m 



Chocolate, (unsweetened) 

m m 



Clams, (edible portion). 
Clam Bouillon 



Claret (10% Alcohol) 

Cocoa 

Cod, Fresh, (edible portion). 



Cod Fish, Salt, Boneless. 

m « « « 



S 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

lib. 
1 nut 
1 tbsp. 
chopped 

1 slice 
lloaf 
1 cup 
1 small 
slice 
1 slice 
lloaf 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 small 
1 serving 
1 serving 

1 tbsp. 

2 tbsp. 

1 serving 

2 tbsp. 
(IH cubic 

inch) 
1 serving 
lib. 

1 square 
lib. 

1 serving 
1 serving 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 



Ozs. 
16 

16 

H 
H 
1 

12 
4>i 

1 

1 

13 

H 

8 



2.0 
4.0 
2.0 

1 
1 
8 

3H 
16 

1 
16 

3H 
3H 
32 

H 

16 

2 

16 













49 


1 


^> 




g 




ft. 


Gms. 


Gmn. 


100 


19.4 


454 


87.8 


14+ 


• ■ a • 


71 


7.8 


454 


76.94 


• • • ■ 


1.20 


• ■ • • 


3 6 


28.4 


2.6 


340 


31.6 


136 


12.6 


28.4 


1.5 


28.4 


8.4 


386.5 


114 


14+ 


0.1 


227 


2.2 


57 


0.5 


113 


2.0 


57 


• • • • 


15 


4.0 


28.4 


8.0 


28 


5.9 


23 


6.1 


100 


21.4 


454 


97.5 


28.4 


3.65 


454 


58.5 


100 


8.6 


100 


2 


906 


2.0 


14 


• • • • 


7+ 


3.0 


100 


16.5 


454 


74.8 


57 


15.7 


454 


125.6 






Gms, 

1.2 
5.44 



1.5 

302.88 
4.74 

14.22 

0.3 
4.1 
1.6 

0.5 
.30 
4. 

12.1 
193 



6S 



Gms. 



0.6 



5.0 
10.0 
0.28 
8.1 



2.5 
11.3 

13.8 
220.9 

1.0 

ois 



4.1 




1 

1 



43.4 

31.68 
0.05 

0.15 

15.0 

179.3 

71.7 

13.3 

8.5 

116.3 



4.2 
5.2 
1.4 



1.2 
0.5 



I 

•58 

£ 

Calor- 
ies 

88 
401 

42 

218 

3048 
47.6 

142.8 

73 
881 
352 

64 
70.3 
957.2 

109 
1744 



20 

35 



8.59 
137.4 

2.0 
0.2 
1.6 



5.3 



62 

124 

31 

100 



108 
492 

173 
2772 

51 
2 

23 

10 
70 

70 
315 

64 
515 



66 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



POOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



C— (Continued) 
Condensed Milk, Eaole Brand. 

a « « « 

Consomme 



Corn. 



Cornmeal. 



Cornstarch. 



Cracker Crumbs. 
Crackers, Water. 



Cr^un. Thin (18^). 



• Thick (40%). 

c c c 



Cucumbers, Fresh (edible port 'n). 



Currants, Fresh. 
Dried. 



Dates 

Dry Peptonoids, Soluble. 



Egffs, whole average size (without 

shell) 

Eggs, White , 

« Yolk 



Farina. 



Fip 



Filberts, Shelled. 



s 



1 teaspoon 

• ■ • • 

lean 

1 serving 
1 quart 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

Itbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cup 
1 large 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 cup 
1 cup 



1 cup (with 
stones) 
1 tbsp. 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

Ifig 
Hlb. 

lib. 
1 doz. 
1 tbsp. 
^chopped) 



1 



OZ9. 

.388 
1 
16 

3H 
32 

10 

H 
5 



5+ 

H 



8 
1 

1 

5 

8 



8 



H 



H 



IH 
»/io 



M 



1 
8 

16 






Oms. 

11 

28.35 
450 

100 
906 

28.4 

10 
142 

10 
156 

151 
10 

14 
227 

14 
227 

28.4 

142 
227 



227 
159 



45 
25 
13 



10 
170 

28.4 
227 

454 



Qms. 

0.88 

2.27 

36.33 

2.5 
10.0 

7.9 

0.8 
13.0 



16.5 
1.2 

0.4 
5.6 
0.3 
4.99 

23 

2.12 
5.44 



4.0 
6 



I 



5.4 
3.3 
2.1 



1.0 
18.7 

1.3 
9.7 

70.72 
3.3 
2.21 



Oma, 

1.057 

2.72 

43.79 



3.4 

0.2 
2.6 



9.0 
0.5 

2.8 
41.9 

6.0 
90.7 

.06 

• • • • 

3.84 



5.6 






Oms. 

6.07 

15.66 

250.60 

0.4 
1.6 

53.9 

7.1 
106.8 

9.5 
197.4 

110.2 
7.6 

0.7 

10.2 

0.5 

6.8 



.89 



8 

I 

I 



4.2 
'4!5 



0.1 

2.3 

0.1 
0.7 

296.16 

13.89 

9.26 



18 
84 



160.8 
8 



Calor- 
ies 

38.25 

98.59 

1579.33 

12 
46 

278 

34 
504 

38 
790 

588 
40 

29 
440 

57 
864 



81 

728 



710 
57 






7.2 
129.8 

22.2 
168.2 

58.88 
2.76 
1.84 



60 
13 
48 



34 
616 

95 

718 J 

3184 
150 
100 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



67 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



F— (Contiaoed) 
Floor, Barley 



Gtim Gluten. 

« « 

Graham 



Rice. 
Rye . 



Gelatin, Granulated. 

u « 

* Shredded..' 
Gnm Gluten Flour. 

m 
m 

Bread! 



« 
« 
« 



Biscuit Crisp. 
Noodles 



Greens 

Grapes, M alaga. 



Grape Juice. 




Wheat (Roller Process). ... 

« « « 

Fowl, (edible portion) 



H 



Haddock, (edible portion) 
Halibut, (edible portion) . . 

Ham, Fresh, Lean 

« « « 

Hickory Nuts, Shelled. . . . 

m « « 

« « « 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
Itbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 tbsp. 

Ibox 

Hbox 

Itbsp. 
1 cup 
lib. 
1 slice 
lloaf 
1 biscuit 
1 cup 

1 serving 

1 dozen 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 
lib. 

lib. 
^cup 
(chopped) 
1 tbsp. 
(chopped) 



1 
I 



Ozs. 

H+ 
8 

H 
5 

H 

5 

H 

5 

H 



3H 

16 



Mo 

H 

5 
16 

1 

13 
H 

3H 



2 
16 



H 



8 



3H 
16 

3H 
16 

3H 
16 

16 
IH 

H 



Qms, 

16 
227 

8 
142 

8 
142 

16 
241 

8 
142 

8 
142 

100 
454 



8.5 
34 
17 



8 
142 
450 
28. 
386. 

7 
100 



113 

57 
454 

14 
227 



100 
454 

100 

454 

100 
454 

454 







1 


1 




Z'o 


1 


i 


a-& 


Gms. 


Qms. 


• 

Gms. 


1.3 


0.2 


12.5 


19.0 


2.5 


174.3 


3.46 


.12 


3.48 


60 


2.3 


63 


1.3 


0.2 


6.8 


18.8 


3.2 


101.2 


14 


0.04 


10.2 


18.9 


0.7 


187.8 


0.5 


0.07 


6.3 


9.6 


1.3 


111.5 


0.9 


0.08 


6.0 


15.9 


1.4 


106.2 


19.3 


16.3 




87.5 


73.9 


.... 


7.8 


• » • • 


> • • • 


31.1 


• • ■ • 


• • • ■ 


15.6 


• • • ■ 


• • • • 


3.46 


.12 


3.48 


60 


2.3 


63 


191 


7.3 


200 


8.4 


.30 


8.5 


114 


4 


116.3 


2.94 


.13 


3.15 


45 


4.2 


32.5 


2.3 


0.3 


3.6 


0.74 


0.9 


10.88 


4.5 


5.4 


65.3 


• ■ • ■ 


• • • • 


3.8 


• ■ • • 


• ■ • • 


60.0 


17.2 


0.3 




77.9 


1.36 




18.6 


5.2 




84.3 


23.5 




24.8 


14.2 




112.6 


64.4 




69.76 


305.6 


51.68 


6.54 


28.5 


4.83 


2.18 


9.5 


1.61 



I 



Calor- 
ies 

57 
796 

29 
512.7 

34 
509 

58 
870 

28 
496 

28 
500 

224 
1015 



81 

125 

62 

29 

512.7 
1629.7 

70.3 
957.2 

25.5 
350 

27 

55 
328 

15 
240 



72 
324 

121 
549 

227 
1029 

3234 
303 

101 



68 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 




H— (Continued) 
Hominy 

Honey 

J 

Jell-O 

« 

K 
Kumyss 

L 
Lamb Chops 

Lard 

m 

Lemon Juice, (1 lemon) 

Lettuce 

Liquid Peptonoids 

Lobster, (edible portion) 

M 

Macaroni 

Mackerel, Fresh (edible portion) 
« « « « 

Salted 

m » 

Malted Milk, Horlick's 

Milk, Whole 

M m 

« m 

" Skimmed 

Molasses 

Mutton Chops 

« « 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 



1 box 
1 serving 



Iqt. 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

3 tbsp. 

Ihead 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 

1 serving 

lib. 

1 serving 

lib. 

Itbsp. 

i tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 quart 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 serving 
lib. 



Ozs. 

8 
1 



3.5 
.6 



34.4 



3H 
16 

0.5 
16 

1^ 
8 

H 

3H 
16 



3H 

3H 
16 

3H 
16 

0.7 
8.6 

34.4 
0.7 
8.6 

34.4 



H 
11 

3H 
16 



Oms. 

14 
227 

28.35 



100 
16 



975 



100 
454 

14 
454 

42 

227 

15 

100 
454 



108 

100 
454 
100 
454 

14 

20 
244 
975 

20 
244 
975 

27 
317 

100 
454 



C^ 


& 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Gms. 


Gms. 


Gms. 


1.2 
18.9 


0.1 
1.4 


11.2 
179.2 


.133 


• • • • 


23.02 


11.2 
1.9 


• • • • 

■ • • ■ 


"86.4 
14.4 


2.2 


2.1 


1.5 


18.7 
84.8 


28.3 
128.3 


• • • • 

• • • • 


• • • • 

• • • • 


14 
484 


• • • • 

• • • • 


• ■ • • 


• • • • 


4.2 


2.3 


0.5 


5.7 


0.8 


• • • ■ 


2.1 


18.1 
82.08 


1.1 
4.96 


0.5 
2.24 


14.7 


1.0 


81.1 


18.7 
84.8 
16.3 
73.9 


7.1 
32.16 
17.4 
78.9 


■ • • • 

• • • • 

• ■ • • 

• • • • 


2.3 


1.2 


9.5 


.066 
8.0 

32.2 
0.7 
8.3 

33.1 


0.8 
9.3 
39.0 
0.06 
0.7 
2.9 


1.0 
12.2 
48.8 

1.0 
12.5 
49.7 


0.6 
7.6 


• • • • 

• ■ • • 


18.7 
219.7 


16.0 
72.5 


33.1 
150.1 


• • • • 

■ • • • 



4> 

9 





Calor- 
ies 

50 
805 

92.5 



395 
66 



328 



329 
1494 

127 
4083 

17 

36 

28 

84 
382 



392 

139 

629 

222 

1007 

59.54 

14 
169 

675 

7 

89 

358 

77 
909 

362 
1640 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



69 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



N 
Noodles, Glttten 

O 

Oatmeal, Granulated 

Oats, Rolled 

m m 

Olive Oil. Nicelle 

Olives 

Onion 

Orange 

Oranse Juice 

m m 

Oysters 

m 

P 

Panopepton 

Peaches, Fresh 

Dried 

Peach Juice 

Peanuts. Shelled 

Peanut Butter 

Peas, Green 

I •_ Canned 

Pecans, Shelled 

Pineapple, Fresh (edible portion) 
• Canned 

m M 

u m 

Port Wine (10% Alcohol) 

Potatoes, White 

Potatoes, Sweet 

Prunes 



s 

I 



Icnp 



1 tbsp. 
Icup 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
2or3 

1 serving 

1 medium 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

2 

Icup 
(solid) 



1 tbsp. 

1 medium 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

1 cup 
1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
1 cup 

1 cup 



1 slice 
1 cup 
1 can 

1 tbsp. 

1 medium 
1 medium 

1 cup 

3 prunes 



^ 



OZ8. 
3H 

H 
8 

H 
H 

0.5 
4 

5 



8 

1 
6 



H 



4 

3 

1 

8' 



H 



5 
0.6 

4 
6H 

5.5 



8 

3 

8 

24 

3H 

5 

1 



Gms. 
100 



14+ 
227 

5 

71 

15 
14 

113 

142 

14 

227 

28.4 
170 



15 

113 
85 
14 

227 

142 
16 

113 
184 

156 



227 

85 

227 

680 

14 
( 
100 
100 

142 
28. 



Qms, 
45 



1.8 
28.8 

0.7 
11.8 



0.1 
1.8 
1.2 



1.7 
10.5 



I 



0.8 
1.4 



36.55 
4.8 

7.7 
6.6 

15.0 



0.9 
.4 

0.9 
2.6 



2.2 
1.8 

2.5 
0.5 



Qms. 
4.2 



0.9 
14.7 

0.3 
5.2 

15 
2.8 

0.3 

0.3 



0.3 
2.0 



0.1 
1.8 



54.7 
7.7 

O.S 
0.4 

110.0 



0.7 

.6 

1.6 

4.8 



0.1 
0.7 



5^ 



J3 



Qms, 
32.5 



9.9 
158.2 

2.7 
46.9 



1.2 

11.2 

17.4 

1.6 
25.6 

1.0 
6.3 



2.5 

11.3 

56.2 

1.1 

17.6 

34.55 
2.8 

19.6 
18.0 

23.8 



22 
31 

82.6 
247 






CalOT' 
ies 

434 



55 
880 

16 
282 

135 
31 

56 

77 

6 
104 

14 
84 



18, 
27 



88.1 
17.6 



30 

50 

247 

5 

80 

777 
100 

114 
100 

1145 



98 

130.5 
348 
1044 

10 

83 
123 

363 
72 



70 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



Ovail. 



Raisins. 



Raspberries, Fresh, Black, 

(edible portion) 
Raspberry Juice 



Rhubarb. 



Rice. 



Rum. 



Salmon, (edible portion). 



Saltines. 



Sardines.Canned . 

« « 



Shad, (edible portion). 

« « c 



• Roc. 
Sherry 



Spinach 

Squabs 

Squash 

Strawberries, (edible portion), 
Strawberry Juice 



Suet. 



Sugar, Granulated. 



Loaf. 



S 



1 serving 



1 dozen 
1 cup 



1 cup 
1 cup 



1 tbsp. 
1 cup 

Itbsp. 






Powdered . 



1 serving 
lib. 

1 wafer 

1 serving 
1 can 

1 serving 
lib. 
1 serving 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 

1 serving 

1 serving 

1 serving 
1 cup 
1 cup 

1 tbsp. 
lib. 

1 tbsp. 
1 cup 
1 lump 
1 cup 
1 tbsp. 
1 cup 



I 



Ozs. 



5 
8 

1 
16 

H 

8H 



3H 
16 

3H 
16 

3H 
16 

3M 
H 

4 

3M 

3J^ 

4 
6 
8 

16 

m 

0.4 
6.5 

H 
6.5 



Gms. 
100 



9 
113 



142 
227 

28.4 
454 

15 
240 

14 



100 
454 



100 
454 

100 
454 
100 

14 

H 

100 

100 

113 
170 
227 

14 
454 

15 
210 

7.6 
184 

12 
184 



Gms. 
21.8 



0.2 
2.6 



2.4 



0.2 
2.7 

1.1 
18.1 



22 
99.6 

0.4 

23 
104.3 

18.8 
B5.1 
20.9 



2.3 

16.3 

1.4 

1.0 
1.5 



& 



Gms. 
8.0 



0.3 
3.4 



1.4 



0.2 
3.2 

0.04 
0.7 



s 

.C'O 

6-^ 



Gms. 



12.8 
57.9 

0.5 

19.7 
89.2 

9.5 

43.0 

3.8 



0.3 

36.2 

0.5 

0.7 
1.0 



6.5 
77.6 



17.8 
22.6 

1.0 
16.3 

11.2 
179.1 



.66 11.59 
21.28 371.0 



26 



7.9 
11.9 
11.4 



15.0 
210 

7.6 
184 

12 
184 



s 

1 



Calor- 
ies 

159 



29 
352 



94 
90 

6 
105 

50 
795 

38 



203 
922 

15 

269 
1221 

161 
729 
128 

13 

27 

391 

46 

42 
63 
45 

107 
3425 

60 
840 

30 
736 

48 
736 



ESTIMATES OF FOOD VALUES 



71 



FOOD MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 



I 



S— {Continued) 

S igar of Milk, Patch's .... 

« « « 

S veetbreads 

« 

« 

T 

Tomatoes 

« 
« 

Tapioca, Pearled 

* Minute Tapioca.. 
Trout, (edible portion) 

m « « 

Turnip 

Turkey, (edible portion) . . 

m ma 

w 

Walnuts, English 

« m 

Whey 

Whitefish, (edible porti<») 

m « « 



1 teaspoon 
(aver, size) 
Itbsp 

1 serving 
lib. 
ipair 
(med. bisc) 



1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

1 medium 
(whole to- 
mato) 

1 tbsp. 

1 cup 

1 tbsp. 

1 serving 
lib. 

1 serving 

1 serving 
lib. 



1 cup 
1 meat 

1 glass 

1 serving 
lib. 



I 



Ozs, 

• • • • 

.164 
.564 

16 
8 

8 
5 



6.5 

3H 
16 

3H 

3H 
16 



5H 



6H 
16 



Gms. 

1 
5 

16 

100 
454 

227 



15 
227 
142 



14 

184 

14 

100 
454 

100 

100 
454 



156 
1 

184 

100 
454 



Gms. 



16.8 
76.2 
38.1 



0.2 
2.7 
0.5 



0.03 

0.4 

0.03 

17.8 
80.6 

1.3 

21.1 
95.7 



25.8 
.17 

1.8 

22.9 
103.8 



rS 



8 
■d 



i 



Cms. 



12.1 
54.8 
27.4 



0.03 

0.5 

0.3 



10.3 
46.7 

0.2 

22.9 
103.9 



98 8 
0.63 

0.5 

6.5 
29.4 



Gms. 

100% 
100% 

100% 



0.6 
9.0 
3.0 



12.3 

159.5 

12.2 



8.1 



25.1 
0.16 

9.3 



I 

1 
ft* 



Calor- 
ies 

4 1 
20.5 

65 6 

176 
798 
399 



4 
51 
16 



49 

640 
49 

164 
743 

39 

290.5 
1317 



093 
7 

50 

150 
681 



The vreightB assigned to the various measurements in this table have 
been determined carefully, but are the results of a limited number of 
experimentSt and hence must be regarded as only approximate. The food 
values are ^iven with sufticient accuracy to be within the limits of error 
of computations made on average analysis of food-stuffs. 

*'A Mew Food Scale an aid in the administration of quantitative diets." 
Designed by T. Stewart Hart, M.D. For sale by Messrs. John Chatillon & 
Sons, 85 Cliff Street, New York. 



CHAPTER IV 
rEEDINO THE SICK 

GENERAL BULES 

In the treatment of disease there are few questions which 
have to be considered so often in the daily routine of practice 
as those which concern the proper support and nourishment of 
the patient. 

A good nurse will never exceed or depart from the phy- 
sician^s instructions ; but there are occasions when her posses- 
sion of accurate, even if limited, knowledge on the subject 
of chemical and physiological action of food will enable a 
physician to give more definite directions, greatly assisting 
him in the performance of his duties, and adding to the com- 
fort and well-being of the patient. 

Physician's Directions. The nurse^s directions in refer- 
ence to feeding her patient should be written, stating how 
much food may be given, its form, preparation and time of 
serving. In pneumonia, typhoid and all acute serious con- 
ditions, a record of all these details should be kept, also a 
record of the quantity of fluid and medicine taken. 

The nurse has a far better opportunity than the physician 
to judge of all the conditions of the patient's digestion, and 
his likes and dislikes for diflEerent foods, and she should not 
fail to report them to the physician in charge and under- 
stand very definitely to what extent she is to be permitted to 
humor her patient, and substitute one form of food or drink 
for another. 

It may happen from lack of care or indefinite instruction, 
that the food served will neutralize the effect of the med- 
icine, either by overfeeding, or by irregularities in feeding, 

72 



FEEDING THE SICK 73 

which disturb digestion and interfere with the beneficial ef- 
fect of the medicine. 

Those who are ill are often allowed to drift into critical 
conditions through not being properly supplied with such 
nutritive material as their enfeebled powers can digest. 
Many have perished because those around them did not know 
how to feed them, and either withheld food altogether, or 
gave that which was unsuitable, through ignorance. Even 
when the patient is confined to bed and prevented from tak- 
ing any kind of voluntary exercise, he still requires heat and 
energy for the involuntary action of heart, lungs, and the 
other processes of living, and healthy nutrition must be pro- 
Tided for by a supply of suitable food. 

Often the nurse may conscientiously serve one form of 
food ordered, oflEering it in spite of the patient's dislike and 
nausea with the result of half starving him. When her in- 
structions have not been specific, or have not provided for 
-emergencies, she should make it a point to have them clearly 
understood at the next visit of the physicAn. 

To be able to carry out these instructions and ofl!er nourish- 
ment intelligently, a thorough practical knowledge of dietetics 
is necessary, and should be the foundation of every nurse's 
training. If we wish to succeed in avoiding nausea, vomit- 
ing, loss of strength, and even loss of life, we must learn to 
offer food to the patient in a suitable form, in the quantity 
and at the times suited to his digestive power, and so adapt 
his food to his capabilities. 

This subject has been so ably treated by Dr. Thompson 
(Practical Dietetics, 2d ed.) in his chapter, "Administration 
of Food for the Sick,'* that permission has been asked, and 
kindly granted, to use extracts from that chapter; also, by 
the kindness of Mrs. Ellen H. Eichards, quotations have been 
made from the article, " Nourishment in Acute Disease,'^ from 
the "Eumford Kitchen Leafiets.'^ 

Feeding in Acute Disease. The preparation of food for 
those who are seriously ill is a matter of vital importance, 
for the life of the patient often depends either upon the 



74 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

maintenance of strength during the acute period of the dis- 
ease or on the recovery of power during convalescence. Since 
acute disease is accompanied by fever, we must consider the 
effect of feeding in cases where; the temperature is febrile in 
character; also the amount of food, its quality and quantity, 
together with other conditions affecting its absorption. 

In acute disease accompanied by fever, what are the con- 
ditions? The body loses weight, urea is increased and car- 
bonic acid and water are excreted in larger amounts than ia 
health. All of this loss is not dangerous if permitted to go 
on for a few days only, and if the amounts do not exceed 
certain limits. But to replace these losses we are at a dis- 
advantage as regards the ability of the system to assimilate 
food. In fevers the appetite is small, or may be completely 
lost. The saliva, the gastric juice, pancreatic fluid, the bile, 
are less eflScient in action or diminished in amount during 
high temperature. 

The stomach is very sensitive, in part, perhaps, through 
sympathy with the increased sensitiveness of the nervous sys- 
tem as a whole. If there is much hypersesthesia of the diges- 
tive tract, as in typhoid, in peritonitis, in dysentery or gastro- 
enteritis, one must be careful not to give too much food at 
a time, and it should be in a liquid form and partially pre- 
digested. Note Typhoid Diet, page 337. 

Evidences of Digestion. Our attention should be devoted 
not only to what is put into the alimentary canal, but also to 
what goes out. For instance, if curds of undigested milk 
are found in the stools of a typhoid patient, the quantity of 
milk should be diminished, or it should be diluted. 

Every careful observer of the sick will agree that many 
patients are starved, simply from the want of attention to 
the means which alone make it possible for them to take 
food. For example, if the patient has a fever with remis- 
sion and intermission, it is of the first importance to remem- 
ber that the ability to digest food at these intermissions is 
greater, and it is then that the most nourishing portions of 
diet should be given. 



FEEDING TEE SICK 75 

It must be borne in mind that, contrary to the prevalent 
notion, the increase of body heat is not entirely responsible 
for the wasting of the fever patient. The emaciation is due 
partly to the inability to receive and digest the food, which 
in turn arises from the irritable state of the stomach and 
bowels and the defective secretion of the digestive fluids. 

It is the administration of unsuitable food that must be 
guarded against, and also the giving of nourishment in 
quantities and at times unsuited to the digestive powers of 
the patient. All food is changed into liquid in the process 
of digestion before it can be absorbed into the blood. Liquid 
food, therefore, is given to the very sick because it can be 
digested with the smallest amount of labor to the body. 

Predigested milk possesses the decided advantage in that 
it aids the assimilation of the milk without adding to its 
bulk, as do lime water and other substances. 

By diluting milk, stimulants and gruels too much, the 
quantity of the fluid is so great that the patient soon tires 
of swallowing, and stops before enough nourishment has been 
obtained. One should not give what cannot be digested, nor 
less than can be assimilated. So the attendant must have a 
constant watch over the condition of the patient^s powers of 
digestion, and it is necessary for her to know how to choose 
such variety in the diet as to include both what is palatable 
and what will aflFord a proper amount of nourishment. 

The Appetite. As the appetite of the sick often requires 
tempting, the greatest pains should be taken in the prepara- 
tion of the invalid^s food. The lack of desire for food may 
be due merely to defective cooking, to the serving of meals at 
inopportune moments, or to the fact that the food selected 
is not to the patient's liking in kind, flavor, or appearance. 
A desire for food may exist, but not for the particular food 
oflFered, and it is the province of the nurse to differentiate. 

Punctuality in serving meals should be carefully observed, 
for an appetite ready at the accustomed hour may fail if the 
meal is delayed. There is much unconscious habit in re- 
gard to eating. Time for cooking food should be carefully 



76 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

considered with regard to the time for serving. Many foods 
properly cooked are spoiled by standing, which if served 
promptly would be delicious. The rule of serving food at 
stated intervals should be observed few: the conscious as well 
as the unconscious or semi-unconscious patient. 

Quality and Quantity of Food. All foods supplied should 
be as pure and fresh as possible. Hence for the sick it is 
desirable to select the best quality obtainable. 

The amount should be regulated by the physician. When 
this is not done, care must be taken, on the one hand to see 
that sufl5cient is eaten, which often necessitates tempting the 
appetite; and on the other to avoid overindulgence if the 
patient is voracious or has a fancy for certain articles of 
which large amounts are likely to be harmful. 

A well man, lying quietly in bed, requires from 1600 to 
2000 calories per day, and if the body is being wasted by 
disease, he may need a great deal more. During conva- 
lescence, if the body has lost weight, food must be given 
for rebuilding, in addition to the ordinary daily need. 

Temperature of Food. The temperature of the food served 
is exceedingly important, as it has a marked influence upon 
digestion. As a rule, foods to be served "hot^^ should 
neither be served lukewarm nor too hot. Serve in hot dishes 
and cover in transit. Cold food should be served neither 
lukewarm nor ice cold. Under many conditions food at ex- 
treme temperatures interferes with digestion and absorption. 

Details in Feeding. The patient should be saved from 
thinking as well as from physical exertion, and it is unwise 
to ask him what he would like to eat, for it is often the un- 
expected that pleases. Personal idiosyncrasies should be con- 
sidered ; for some foods easy of digestion, if repugnant to 
the patient, may prove nauseating and be rejected or disturb 
digestion. 

Only a small quantity of food should be given at one time 
so that the digestive organs may not be overtaxed. It is 
much better to do this often than to give too much at one 
time. A tablespoonful of nourishment every half hour may 



FEEDING THE SICK 77 

be retained and digested, and do the patient good, when if 
a larger amount were given the stomach would reject it. 

The majority of weak patients are unable to take food of 
any solid kind before eleven o'clock in the morning, yet 
l^efore that time comes they are apt to become exhausted. 
This would not be likely to occur if a spoonful of some liquid 
nourishment or stimulant ordered by the physician were given 
every hour or two, from the early morning up to the time 
for taking the solid food, which the patient would then 
probably be able to do by noon. 

All noise in the preparation of food and smell of cook- 
ing should be kept from the sick room. The nurse should 
never eat her meal or taste the patient's food in his presence, 
and should always have a cheerful manner and a cleanly, 
tidy appearance. These things have much effect upon the 
patient's appetite. 

Bathing and Cleansing the Mouth. When possible, it is 
well to bathe the patient's face and hands before oflEering a 
meal. The mouth should be rinsed each time after eating 
with pure water, or diluted borax water (two teaspoonfuls 
to a tumbler of water). This takes away the after-taste of 
the food and he is less apt to tire of it. 

The mouth should be kept thoroughly cleansed, for if the 
lips are allowed to become parched and sour, the patient will 
refuse nourishment which he might otherwise take. When a 
patient cannot rinse his own mouth it must be frequently 
cleansed by the nurse with a swab of fresh cotton, fastened to 
a small flexible stick. A tongue scraper made of a whale- 
bone bent to a loop may be used before serving the food; 
thus the taste nerves will be uncovered and the appetite im- 
proved. 

Time and Position for Feeding, When the patient is first 
allowed to sit up for half an hour, it is well to utilize this 
time for giving the principal meal of the day, which is likely 
to be eaten with more relish, and perhaps better digested in 
consequence. If the patient is only allowed to partially sit 
up in bed, the nurse should see that the position is com- 



78 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

fortable, and that the food tray does not cramp the arms and 
legs, taking care that no crumbs get into the bed. 

Sleep and Feeding. The awakening of a patient to take 
nourishment depends upon his need of the nutriment and 
upon his ability to go to sleep again. In serious cases it 
should be given at stated intervals if the patient drops to 
sleep easily after taking it. Some patients, however, are an- 
noyed by being awakened and cannot sleep again. In such 
cases it may be that the sleep will be more beneficial than 
food. 

Feeding the Helpless Patient. The effort of sitting up 
may become fatiguing to the invalid and so destroy his appe- 
tite before the meal is half done, or he may not be able to 
feed himself, or to raise his head. In such cases the diffi- 
culty can be obviated by placing the hand beneath the pillow 
and raising both together gently. 

In feeding fluids at these times always serve in small 
tumbler, not more than two-thirds filled; see that swallows 
are not taken during inspiration, and that each mouthful is 
swallowed before another is offered. In case the head cannot 
be raised, food may be given by means of a glass tube or a 
feeding cup. 

Feeding the Unconscious Patient, The feeding of uncon- 
scious patients demands especial care. They should be given 
only liquid nourishment, and fed with a spoon, or through 
a catheter. If the jaws are set, a medicine dropper may be 
utilized; not over a teaspoonful should be given at once, and 
the nurse must be sure it is swallowed before she gives more. 
In the case of comatose children, or young infants, the nour- 
ishment may be poured into the nostril in place of the mouth. 
Feeding with the stomach tube is sometimes resorted to, when 
nasal feeding is not feasible. 

Forced Feeding. Forced feeding consists in introducing 
various liquid foods, as milk, eggs, meat-juice or extracts 
into the stomach by way of the nose or directly through the 
mouth by means of a stomach tube. This is seldom required 
of the nurse, but is usually done by the physician himself. 



FEEDING THE SICK 79 

This method is employed when the unconscious patient expe- 
riences difficulty in swallowing; in gastric irritability; when 
a patient is unable to take sufficient food, owing to loss of 
appetite and disgust for food; and also in case of a refrac- 
tory patient who refuses to eat. 

Nasal Feeding. In nasal feeding a nasal tube is em- 
ployed or in case of infant a catheter. Have either well 
oiled and passed gently through the nose into the oesophagus 
and then into the stomach. Before pouring in the food wait 
a moment to see that the tube has not entered the larynx. 

Use of the Stomach Tube. The jaws must be kept open. 
In children without teeth, the finger may be employed; in 
grown persons a mouth gag or a roller bandage may be held 
between the teeth. The tube should be moistened, passed 
into the pharynx and thence rapidly into the stomach. If 
these two precautions are not observed, contraction of the 
muscles may occur, preventing the tube from entering the 
-oesophagus. In passing the tube into the oesophagus, hold 
it well back from the end. When the tube is satisfactorily 
introduced, place a funnel in the free end and pour liquid 
nourishment slowly down the side of the funnel until the 
tube is filled, and the air in tube is expelled; this care pre- 
vents the air in tube entering the stomach. In removing the 
tube, it should be withdrawn rapidly in order not to excite 
vomiting. In some cases the physician orders the stomach 
washed out before introducing the food. When it is neces- 
sary to take special precautions to prevent regurgitation of 
the food, the ribs may be tickled to prevent contraction of 
the diaphragm. 

Rectal Feeding. This form of alimentation is necessary 
when the stomach cannot retain food. It is based on the fact 
that the rectal mucous membrane, while it possesses no di- 
gestive faculty, is able to absorb certain classes of nutriment. 
These include among the carbohydrates, sugars; among pro- 
teins, the native albumin as well as the end products of pro- 
tein digestion. The latter are believed to be much more 
absorbable than the first products (albumoses and peptones). 



80 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Soluble starch (dextrin) is doubtless absorbable, but un- 
changed starch and fats can hardly be taken up. It is prob- 
able that finely emulsified fats if thrown well up into the 
colon are absorbable to some extent. Although we cannot 
understand why certain substances nourish the patient, since 
they are theoretically not absorbable, they seem in some man- 
ner to be utilized, even when merely thrown into the rectum. 
As far as possible we should employ substances which we 
know positively to be capable of absorption; but in rectal 
feeding for a long period it is sometimes necessary to use a 
great variety of formulae, making it out of the question to 
confine ourselves to the few articles which are theoretically 
best suited for the purpose. 

The rectum may be intolerant to almost any form of enema ; 
even if retained for some time, it may be rejected without 
apparent change. Under the most favorable circumstances, 
at least three-fourths of the quantity injected will come 
away with the regular evacuation of the bowels. The amount 
of energy actually supplied must be far below the theoretical 
demands of the body. In some cases, it is of course possible 
to nourish the patient partly by the mouth and partly by 
rubbing a small amount of fatty matter into the skin. Some 
of the most available substances, such as solutions of sugar, 
are naturally irritating to the rectum. 

It is possible to keep a patient alive for weeks and even 
months by rectal feeding, but in many cases this resource for 
one reason or another fails outright to do what is expected of 
it. Hence we cannot be too careful as to technique and 
choice of material used. Of natural substances, milk and 
eggs have been very freely used. The albumin and sugar in 
the milk are probably utilized. In an emulsion of eggs, the 
native albumin is doubtless the constituent which nourishes 
the patient. We cannot be sure of the absorption of the 
fatty matter of the milk and eggs. Both these substances are 
relatively non-irritating. Peptonized milk answers well in 
some cases. It is best to carry on the peptonization for a 
long period, until the end products of digestion form, pep- 



FEEDING THE SICK 8i 

tones themselves being often irritating. Solutions of glucose 
and dextrin are useful^ alone or combined with other in- 
gredients. For example, eggs may be combined with glucose, 
or plain milk with dextrin. For variety, any of the pre- 
digested foods, whether these come in solution or dried, and 
even bouillon and beef -tea may be tried. Starch emulsion 
is soothing in the rectum and may be utilized if first mixed 
with diastase. 

The technique is most important. The rectum should 
first be cleaned by a high injection of decinormal saline 
solution, after which no attempt should be made to give a 
nourishing injection for at least an hour. It may be neces- 
sary for the physician to treat the rectum if hemorrhoids or 
great irritability exists. The patient's hips should be raised 
higher than the head to aid in retaining the enema. A tube 
specially designed for the purpose should be used, the enema 
being at body heat and allowed to flow in by gravity from 
a funnel. The amount injected should never exceed 8 oz. 
and the enema cannot be repeated oftener than every 6 
hours unless the quantity is small. As a rule, the smaller the 
enema the more frequently it may be used. After an injec- 
tion the patient should be kept perfectly quiet. 

Stimulants like black coflFee and whisky are often given by 
the rectum, the whisky requiring dilution with two parts 
water. Wine is sometimes used for the purpose. Stimulat- 
ing and nutritive enemata may be combined. 

Injections of normal salt solution, seltzer water, etc., are 
sometimes used to supply the body with fluids and quench 
thirst. 

Useful additions to enemata comprise a little salt or sodium 
bicarbonate or a little starch emulsion ; at times a few drops 
of laudanum are of value in aiding retention. 

One should not be discouraged by early failure, as it is 
possible for tolerance to be established. 



82 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



PORMITXAE POB BECTAL FEEDING 

I. Peptone-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

60 c c. peptone = 100 Cal. 

II. Egg-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

3 eggs =200 Cal. 

3 gms. salt. 

III. Starch-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

70 gms. starch =: 260 Cal. 

IV. Sugar-milk, Von Leube 

250 c. c. milk =170 Cal. 

50 gms. grape sugar = 250 Cal. 

V. Pancreas, Von Leube 

75 gm. pancreas substance = 300 Cal. 

225 gm. beef =300 Cal. 

35 gms. fat =350 Cal. 

(This enema, in semi-solid condition, is introduced into the rectum 
and allowed to digest therein. A piston syringe with a wide nozzle 
is required.) 

Nutrient Enema: 

Peptonised Milk J iv to 5 vi ( four 

Whites of two eggs to six ounces) 

Above used Per Rectum every two to four hours. 

yutrient Enema: 

Milk 5 ^ (^^^ ounce) 

German Seltzer H.O J iv (four ounces) 

Used in Icterus, every two hours. 

Nutrient Enemata — ^Malted Milk. 

Dissolve from three to four heaping teaspoonfuls of Horlick's 
malted milk powder in one-half pint of water, to which add one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Use at body temperature, or two or three de- 
grees higher. 

The white of one egg may be incorporated if desired. 

Four to six ounces used per rectum every two to four hours. 

Stimulating Enema: 

Black Coffee 5 ^^ ( ^^"^ ounces) 

Whiskey J ii (two ounces) 



FEEDING THE SICK 83 

Salt Solution: 

Sodium chloride 5 i (one drachm ) 

Aquae O i (one pint) 

Use of Alcohol in the Sick Room. The nurse may be re- 
quired to exercise her own judgment at times in- the emer- 
gency use of alcoholics in the sick room. This necessity is 
most likely to occur with those patients having incurable 
maladies where the question of harm to the organism or to 
the morals of the individual does not come into consideration. 
Consumptives often show a remarkable tolerance to alcohol, 
and receive a notable stimulating effect from it, and it 
sometimes happens that an eggnog or milk punch will enable 
an advanced consumptive to dress and make his toilet in the 
morning when otherwise he would have to lie in bed. This 
is true to a less extent of some other incurable diseases. 
Severe acute or subacute conditions in which an alcoholic 
stimulant might require to be given in preference to any 
other for its emergency effect in averting unlooked-for cardiac 
failure comprise pyemia, septicemia and diphtheria. In the 
same class belong certain cases of acute poisoning due to 
mistakes or suicidal intent, such as those due to aconite and 
similar heart poisons. The propriety of giving alcoholics 
after simple collapse or syncope when no serious disease is 
present depends upon the nature of the case and whether 
other stimulants are available. 

Alcohol should perhaps never be given even in emergencies 
to subjects with neurosis or insanity or to victims of severe 
disease of the gastrointestinal organs. 

Keeping Ice in the Sick Room, The very best plan is to 
have a small refrigerator or a Japanese ice box, which may 
be had for a few dollars. If these little luxuries are im- 
possible, put the ice in a deep bowl, cover it with a plate, 
and place the bowl between two clean feather pillows. An- 
other simple way of keeping ice is to put it in a dish pan, 
cover with a tin lid, and wrap in flannel cloths and news- 
papers. It will keep a long time, as feathers, wool and 
paper are poor conductors of heat. 



84 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

Disinfecting Utensils. All dishes or utensils used in the 
sick room should be disinfected before being sent to the 
kitchen to be washed. A simple method is to scrape them 
clean and dip them in a basin of borax water (a teaspoonful 
of borax in a shallow bowl of water). In case of infectious 
diseases all dishes and utensils should be boiled in water 
containing 3 per cent, of sodium bicarbonate for one-half an 
hour to one hour. 



CHAPTER V 
THE ISA Y 

The writer's intention is only to suggest to the nurse the 
best and simplest methods of arranging the tray and a few 
of the important details. 

These things seem trivial, but it must be remembered that 
the horizon of the sick room is limited, and that the patient 
who has long been confined to bed with a serious illness thinks 
much of his immediate surroundings. 

He may seem too ill to notice these details, whereas he is 
only too ill to speak of them, for one feeds with the eyes quite 
as much as with the lips, and by some carelessness of the 
nurse the appetite of a refined, fastidious, or nervous pa- 
tient may be wholly destroyed. 

While the natural stimulants to appetite, such as fresh 
air, exercise and enlivening companionship, are necessarily 
wanting, the taking of food is the chief event of the day, 
and too much care cannot be bestowed upon its preparation 
and service, as, has been said, the appearance and manner of 
offering have much to do with its acceptance or rejection. 

ATTBACTIVE ABBANGEHENT OF A TBAY 

The cover and the arrangement of the tray is of the ut- 
most importance, and the slightest departure from regularity 
and immaculate cleanliness should be avoided. 

The tray should be covered with fine linen damask, with- 
out crease or wrinkle — the best you can afford. Use the 
choicest silver, daintiest china and glassware; arrange neatly 
and conveniently. Place a single rose or flower on the tray ; 
a quotation, added as a variety, will often attract the atten- 
tion, and it is well, when possible, to divert the patient's 

85 



86 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



mind from his ailments while eating. This can easily be 
done in these little ways, and also by the introduction of 
some cheerful and interesting topic of conversation. 




Proper Placing 



1 Plate. 

2 Cup and saucer. 

3 Bread and butter plate. 

4 Individual creamer and sugar. 

5 Tumbler. 

6 Individual salt. 



7 Knife. 

8 Fork. 
Spoon. 

10 Butter spread. 

11 Napkin. 

12 Flowers. 



13 Salad knife. 

14 Soup spoon. 

15 Oyster fork. 

16 Salad fork. 



17 After coffee spoon. 

18 Soup or cereal or berry plate, 

etc. 



N.B. — The dots between numbers 7 and 2 reading from left to 
right represent numbers 13, 14, 15, and 17. Sharp edge of knife 
turned toward plate; tines of forks, bowl of spoons, all dishes and 
tumblers placed right side up. 

How to Serve. (General Eules.) The time of cooking 
food to be served, should be carefully considered in relation 



THE TRAY 87 

to the time of serving, for most palatable food may be 
spoiled by not serving it at the proper time. 

Avoid serving too many things on tray. Cover tray with a 
clean napkin or tray cover in carrying it to its destination. 
When the dietary ordered is very limited in variety, the pa- 
tient is often gratified by having his food served in courses, 
and will eat more than if given everything at once. 

Only a small quantity should be served at one time. If 
possible, taste of all food and drinks before serving, to see 
if properly seasoned and at right temperature to serve. 

Always use separate spoon for tasting. 

Food to be served hot, should be served hot (not luke- 
warm), in heated dishes and covered in transit. 

Cold drinks and fruits are more healthful when served 
cool than ice-cold. 

When fluid foods are to be given, other receptacles should 
be used than those used for medicine, or the association of 
ideas may be strong enough to destroy what little appetite 
the patient has, and to even produce nausea. Do not fill 
cups or glasses full, but within one inch of the top. For 
individual dishes, for a luncheon, or drinks to be passed 
alone, use a small tray or plate, covered with a doily or 
folded napkin. 

The finger-bowl should be placed on a small plate, cov- 
ered with a dainty doily; fill one-fourth full of water, and 
put a few rose petals or green leaves in the water and on the 
side of the plate. 

When possible, cover all foods and drinks left standing in 
the sick room. 

The tray and all traces of a meal should be removed im- 
mediately after eating. Half-emptied cups or glasses should 
never be left in the room. 

If the patient is restricted to any especial diet, vary as 
far as possible in the preparation and serving. 

The diet of the patient should be under the supervision 
of the physician, and his directions followed implicitly, for 
much unnecessary suffering, and even death, has been the 
result of giving forbidden food. 



CHAPTER VI 
METHODS OF COOEINa AND CASE OF FOOD 

Cooking is the preparation of food for eating. 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value of cooked food depends 
to a considerable extent upon the manner in which it is 
cooked and served. The time and temperature of cooking 
should be carefully considered, in relation to the constituents 
of the food material. 

Success in Cooking depends in part upon the quality of 
material used, which should be the best. The measurements 
must be accurate. Care should be exercised in combining 
ingredients and one should know the effect of various modes 
of cooking on the food under consideration. Training and 
experience are necessary for success. 

Objective Points in Cooking: 

1. To improve the flavor of food, or render it more pal- 
atable. 

2. To soften it that it may be more readily masticated and 
digested. 

3. To produce chemical changes which increase digestibil- 
ity. 

4. To destroy bacteria and parasites which may be pres- 
ent in raw food. 

Effects of Heat, Protein is coagulated by hot water and 
dry heat ; cold water dissolves soluble proteins, especially if a 
little salt is present. 

Starch is converted into dextrin by dry heat at a tempera- 
ture of 320*" F. ; the starch granules dissolve when subjected 
to boiling water; cold water separates starch grains. 

88 



METHODS OF CCfOKINO AND CARE OF FOOD 89 

Sugars are changed to caramel at a high temperature. 

Fats are readily decomposed by heat^ with production of 
free fatty acids. 

Principles Governing the Choice of a Method of Cooking 
Any Food. These include: (1) A knowledge of the effects 
of heat and moisture on. the digestibility of the articles to be 
cooked. (2) The relation of the method to the extraction of 
soluble portions of the food materials. 

Principal Cooking Processes: 

1. Boiling is cooking in boiling water (212** P.). Gentle 
boiling is as effective as rapid, and prevents waste of fuel if 
gas is used. 

2. Stewing is long, slow cooking in water below the boil- 
ing point— 186° P. 

3. Steaming is cooking in heat derived from the vapor of 
boiling water. It is of two tjrpes. (1) In a steamer (moist 
heat). (2) In a double boiler (dry heat). 

4. Broiling is cooking over a glowing fire or over or un- 
der a flame. Pan broiling i? cooking meat in a very hot 
frying-pan without fat, turning the meat often. 

5. Baking is cooking in an oven by means of heated air. 
Boasting is cooking before a glowing fire (direct heat). 

6. Frying is cooking in a deep bath of hot fat (tempera- 
ture ranging from 350*" to 400° P.). 

Other methods are used which differ but slightly from the 
above. Braizing is a combination of stewing and baking; 
fricasseeing of frying and stewing. 

The Object of Each Cooking Process: 

1. To retain the juice as in boiling, steaming, broiling, bak- 
ing, roasting, frying. 

2. To extract the juices as in soups. 

3. Partly to retain and partly to extract the juices as in 
stews, chowders, braising, and fricasseeing. 

Cooking Utensils. A nurse should always have at hand a 
standard m.easuring cup, divided into thirds and fourths. 
Wooden spoons are preferable to metal ones for mixing and 



90 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

.stirring, as metal spoons are too hard and may break off 
bits of enamel, and are also acted upon by acids. For beating 
egg-white, a spoon-shaped wire beater should be used; for 
the yolks, a fork or Dover egg beater is preferable. Use 
round bottom utensils when stirring is necessary during the 
cooking. Use earthen bowl and wooden spoons for mixing 
batters, etc. A double boiler should be used when cooking 
any food that burns easily (as milk) ; also when foods are to 
be cooked at low temperatures. 

Blending Ingredients. There are several ways of accom- 
plishing this purpose. 

1. Stirring. This is simple mechanical mixing in which 
a mass of ingredients is made uniform. 

2. Beating or whipping consists in so manipulating a soft 
mixture as to incorporate the air. A spoon or special device 
is so applied that the bottom of the mixture is steadily lifted 
to the top. 

3. Folding-in is a term applied to the method of intro- 
ducing beaten white of egg slowly and gently into a soft 
mass, so as to render it light, the air being retained. 

4. Cutting is used only in making pastry. Two knives are 
worked in opposite directions until the shortening is well 
incorporated in the flour. 

Suggestions as to Methods of Working. If a fire and oven 
are to be used these must be first of all attended to that they 
be in readiness when needed. All the cooking apparatus 
should be laid out and the materials to be cooked measured 
in preparations for mixing. It is advisable to be economical 
in the use of utensils. Thus one measureing cup may some- 
times be used in succession for dry materials, liquids and 
fats, in the order named. A receptacle should be at hand 
for soiled spoons and other utensils employed in measureing 
or mixing. It is desirable to work as much as possible in a 
small space ; thus the measureing and mixing should be done 
on a single table if possible. All soiled dishes should be put 
to soak ; at odd moments they may be washed, dried and put 
away. The purpose underlying these principles is that the 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 91 

nurse may go into the family kitchen and prepare food for 
the patient without in the least interfering with the regular 
kitchen work of the household. 

Ice Box and Contents. The ice box should be maintained 
in a state of absolute cleanliness. This is not diflScult in 
the case of a simple portable refrigerator without a drain 
pipe, which may be flushed out daily with boiling water con- 
taining borax or ammonia (half ounce to the gallon). How- 
ever, in the larger kinds of portable refrigerators, and in the 
set ice boxes where a tube is necessary for drainage, all the 
compartments and shelves should be washed with soap and 
hot water at least once in a week, while every day loose par- 
ticles of food which have escaped from dishes, etc., should 
be carefully removed ; or if advisable in certain cases, the food 
and shelves may be removed and wiped or brushed off. The 
drainage pipes must be cleaned with a brush made for the 
purpose at least once a week. It is advisable to sprinkle 
borax on the shelves after cleaning. Certain pungent articles 
can not be kept in an ice box without flavoring other foods 
such as butter, milk, etc. 

Institutions, if large enough, may use a refrigerating plant, 
which does away in part with the handling of ice; or by the 
aid of an ice machine, superintendents may assure them- 
selves of the purity of all ice designed for internal use. 

The drain pipe of an ice box should not, for obvious rea- 
sons, communicate with the sewerage system. 

The temperature in the food compartments is sometimes 
much warmer than one would imagine; and it is desirable 
to get some idea of what the temperature fluctuations are by 
using a thermometer. The reading can hardly go lower than 
40** F. and should not be over 60° F. 

The ice cake should be wrapped in cloth or paper, not only 
for economy's sake but because it may be dirty inside or out- 
side. No food should be placed in the box while warm, for 
the sudden cooling may set up undesirable changes. Canned 
food should not be placed on ice in the opened can, but in a 
fresh receptacle. When possible, each article should be 



92 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

placed in a separate container, or wrapped in paper. Mois- 
ture in the ice box, while unavoidable, should be kept down 
by wiping walls and shelves dry at intervals. 

CABE OF FOODi 

The care of food between the time of purchase and cooking, 
and that of cooking and serving is highly important. The 
fact that spoiled food represents an economic loss, important 
as it is, is much less significant than the fact that not only 
spoiled food, but good food which is contaminated with germ 
life, is a possible source of disease. 

Exposed food, i. e., food exposed to dust, insects, etc., be- 
comes contaminated with disease germs without necessarily 
becoming spoiled or in any way offensive to the senses. The 
most crisp salad or luscious fruit may be covered with dan- 
gerous microorganisms. 

By far the most frequent and abundant forms of micro- 
organisms, which grow at such rate as quickly to become vis- 
ible to the naked eye, are molds. These are not on the whole 
harmful to man, and their chief significance is that they give 
to foods a bad flavor and cause a certain amount of decompo- 
sition. These organisms attack food which is stored in dark, 
damp places, chiefly cellars, and although themselves gen- 
erally harmless, they are likely to be associated with poisonous 
bacteria. Certain butchers hang steaks until they become 
covered with mold, but the mold does not make the meat ten- 
der and highly flavored, for these changes are due largely 
to the bacteria of putrefaction which are also present, thriv- 
ing under the same conditions as does the mold. 

In case of substances which have a natural protective cov- 
ering, it is highly important that this should not be broken 
in handling. Thus when fruits and vegetables are bruised, 
the pulp is quickly attacked by microorganisms and local 
changes occur, resulting in economic waste, since such articles 
can only be partly utilized. 

*For further information, note "Care of Food in the Home." Farmers* 
Bulletin, No. 375 U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 93 

Poods should therefore be stored in places which admit 
plenty of sunlight and air, which will antagonize the growth 
of molds and putrefactive bacteria. Ice, by producing tem- 
peratures unfavorable for the growth of microorganisms, is 
a valuable aid in this sort of cleanliness. Some use of soap 
and water is necessary, but the benefits are partly lost if the 
shelves, etc., are left damp. In cellars repeated whitewashing 
is the most available resource for cleanliness. 

Food should be bought in the freshest and cleanest state, 
should be placed in clean containers, and handled with clean 
hands. Foods should always be washed if there is any suspi- 
cion of contamination. The cases of violent cholera morbus 
which often follow the use of unripe apples, and even of ripe 
fruit like cherries, are believed to be due not to the irritating 
acids present in fruit, but to the presence of a well-known 
bacterium mingled with the dust which collects on such fruit. 
To be absolutely on the safe side, all fruits and vegetables 
should be eaten cooked, but this would deprive us of salads 
and fresh fruits and berries which form so large and pleas- 
urable a part of the average dietary. It has been found by 
experience that if celery, greens, asparagus, berries, etc., are 
washed repeatedly in cool or tepid water, they can at last 
become quite clean without losing their delicate flavor and 
consistency. As long as a particle of grit is present there is 
of course possibility of contamination by living organisms. 
They should be washed, therefore, until the wash water is 
clear. This is a rule which applies to all food that is to 
be eaten raw. With cooking such caution is not absolutely 
necessary. Potatoes, etc., are washed before boiling for 
esthetic reasons only. 

The worst cases of food poisoning, known as ptomaine 
poisoning, are mysterious in character, and are not entirely 
preventable. Chemical substances not usually formed in sim- 
ple decomposition are responsible. They may be present alike 
in raw, cooked, or frozen foods, and in fresh and preserved 
foods. In some cases there is abundant evidence of extreme 
decomposition. The use of rotten eggs in cookery by bakers 



94 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

has caused severe ptomaine poisoning. Cold storage meats 
are sometimes responsible. Fish poisoning, especially with 
shell fish, may be due to some unknown disease of the ani- 
mals themselves (although fish very readily undergo decom- 
position), and personal susceptibility is often a factor. The 
numerous cases of ice cream poisoning are usually due to 
mistakes of amateurs who do not understand the proper re- 
quirements of the art. Although we do not understand and 
cannot always foresee ptomaine poisoning, it is the more 
important that no step be neglected which will contribute in 
theory to securing clean food. Most cases occur in prolonged 
warm weather in which decomposition is favored. Sound, 
fresh food, thoroughly cooked and eaten at once could hardly 
cause ptomaine poisoning under any conditions. 

The articles which the ordinary careful nurse must think 
of in this connection are preserved foods of all kinds, shell 
fish, and milk products, the latter being of most significance, 
because milk, fresh cream, ice cream, etc., are often given 
freely to invalids. The care of milk, drinking water and 
other kinds of food is considered elsewhere. 

Special care of food in respect to fly pollution has become 
necessary since we have learned of the part played by this 
insect in causing typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, etc. Both 
the feet and the excrement of flies are sources of contamina- 
tion. Dealers in food-stuffs in the main take but little pains 
against protecting their wares from fly contamination. Cook- 
ing and careful washing of food to be eaten raw, are our 
principal safeguards in respect to food as it reaches the house. 
There is the added danger that food when ready for con- 
sumption will be freshly contaminated. To obviate this, 
doors and windows of kitchens and dining rooms must be 
properly screened, and flypaper and similar precautions em- 
ployed. If tjrphoid is epidemic in a neighborhood, it is well 
to avoid raw food entirely, just as we avoid unsterilized water 
and milk. Flies are much more likely to abound in neighbor- 
hoods where manure, garbage, etc., are allowed to accumulate, 
and are more dangerous than ordinary dust. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 96 

Dealers usually are at some pains to keep their supplies free 
from dust, though their methods are not always sanitary, 
e. g., the use of the feather duster for fruit. Dust from the 
streets of citiea abounds in germ life. Vegetables and cer- 
tain fruits in clusters which cannot be wiped (grapes, cur- 
rants, etc.) are most likely to be dusty. Washing succes- 
sively in a number of waters will usually remove the dust; 
but in the tropics where many diseases are dust-borne it is not 
considered safe to eat raw grapes at all. Whether washing 
is sufficient depends on the character of the dust and the 
degree of exposure to it. 

Preserving Foods., Foods to be preserved should be per- 
fectly fresh. Yeo gives four methods of preservation : 

(1) Drying is the method most available for preserving 
peas, beans, prunes, apricots and other fruits. Milk and eggs 
may both be preserved by desiccation. 

(2) Exclusion of air may be applied in several ways. 
Smoking, which coagulates the outer surface and sterilizes 
it, serves for preserving ham, bacon, fish, etc. Packing in 
sawdust, etc., or dipping in wax preserves eggs. Canning in 
tins or jars under steam heat is used for preserving many 
kinds of food, all air thus being forced out before the can or 
jar is hermetically sealed. 

(3) Freezing and cold storage are used extensively for 
preserving fish, meat, jams, etc. Such foods must be cooked 
immediately upon thawing. 

(4) Antiseptics are used very extensively in food preserva- 
tion. The oldest and most widely known of these are salt, 
vinegar, alcohol and syrups. More recently a great variety 
of antiseptic chemicals have been used — benzoate of soda, 
salicylic acid, etc., etc. The advisability of their use, even 
in minute quantities, is questionable. 

Concentration. Most foods can be reduced to a dry or 
otherwise condensed state without loss of nutritive value or 
danger of decomposition; and on account of the resulting 
economy in price and storage room may enter into the dietaries 
of hospitals and institutions. Sugar, oil and starch, and 



96 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 

many cereal products, are already in a state of concentration. 
Powdered milk and meat, egg powder, etc., are coming more 
and more into use. Condensed milk has long been a useful 
product (see milk and milk preparations), as have dried and 
evaporated fruits and vegetables. All these products can be 
used in cookery. Their chief use as mainstays will doubtless 
be in cases of temporary shortage of fresh foods, due to 
devastating storms, " strikes ^^ and other happenings which 
interrupt traflBc. 

Predigestion of Food. Much is written against the use of 
predigested foods as a steady diet for the well. Many starchy 
foods on the market are partially digested by heat. The 
objection seems to rest on the theory that such foods give the 
digestive fluids and muscles of the digestive organs nothing 
to do, and that a sort of sluggishness is set up. It cannot 
be said truthfully that these claims have ever been backed 
up by facts. No one denies that thorough mastication is a 
great advantage, and with thorough mastication much of the 
starch is predigested in the mouth, or, after swallowing, in 
the fundus of the stomach. Predigested proteins are not used 
as staple foods, and as little is gained by very finely masti- 
cating flesh foods, the stomach has plenty of work in digest- 
ing animal proteins. If there is fat in the diet the pancreas 
can never fall into a state of disuse. Hence the outcry 
against partially predigested breakfast foods does not seem 
justified on this score. It is true, however, that their absence 
of flavor, and the soft and pulpy character of some of them 
are recognizied as possible drawbacks; for semi-solid and 
pultaceous foods are diflBcult to masticate, while their in- 
sipidity does not flavor a flow of digestive fluids. If ad- 
herence to these foods causes sluggish digestion and inability 
to deal with food in more natural condition, one would impute 
this not to predigestion, but to the fact that the tastelessness 
and the ease with which they may be bolted, are the real 
factors which bring about a passive state of the digestive 
functions. 



METHODS OF COOKING AND CARE OF FOOD 97 

In a diet for the ill, the dyspeptic, the convalescent, etc., 
there can be no possible objection to predigestion ; on the con- 
trary, it is highly desirable up to a certain extent. But just 
as soon as possible the patient should return to foods in the 
natural state, bearing in mind that a small minority of 
cases, even the acutely ill, thrive on food which in theory 
would be hazardous to say the least. Apparently hopeless 
cases of sepsis have seemingly been rescued by placing pa- 
tients on food suited only for the healthy. Such patients 
must, however, have a natural appetite and be able to tolerate 
the food. 

Adulteration of Food. " Since the passage of the National 
Pure Food and Drugs Act, giving to the United States Gov- 
ernment authority to enforce stringent laws against the adul- 
teration and misbranding of foods which enter into inter- 
state commerce, and the more rigid enforcement of similar 
state laws which regulate these matters in many of the states, 
a great burden has been lifted from the shoulders of the buyer. 
This legislation has enormously decreased the deceptions 
formerly practiced by some manufacturers, and since it in- 
sures that the name and description on bottle and package 
shall not misrepresent the contents, the buyer, if he knows 
what he wants, will have no diflBculty in obtaining it, while 
the honest manufacturers and dealers (and they have with- 
out doubt always outnumbered the others) will also be pro- 
tected. This matter in its various aspects is taken up in 
publications of the Bureau of Chemistry* of this Depart- 
ment.^^ ^ For Table of Common Adulteration of Food- 
stuffs, note Farmer's Bulletin No. 25, of the United States 
Department of Agriculture, Division of Chemistry, Washing- 
ton, D. C. 

1 U. S. Dept. Agriculture Bureau of Chemistry, Bulletin 100: Year Book 
1907, p. 321. 

'U, S. Dept. Agriculture, Bureau of ChemiBtry, Bulletin 825, p. 19. 



CHAPTEE VII 
MEASTTBES ANB WEIGHTS 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success in 
cooking. 

All dry ingredients, such as flour, meal, confectioners' or 
powdered sugar, should be sifted before measuring. 

Mustard, cream of tartar, soda, and salt should be stirred 
before measuring, to lighten and free from lumps. 




A Standard Measuring Cup 

A standard measuring cup contains one-half pint and is 
divided into fourths and thirds. 

To measure a cupful of dry material, put in the ingredients 
by spoonfuls, round slightly and level with back of case- 
knife, being careful not to shake cup. 

A cupful is measured level with the brim. 

A heaping cupful is measured level, with two table spoon- 
fuls extra added. 

A scant cupful is measured level, with two table spoonfuls 
taken out. 

All ingredients measured by the tablespoon or teaspoon are 
measured level, 

98 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



99 



To measure a spoonful, fill the spoon and level it off with 
the back of case-knife. 




To measure a half-spoonful, first measure a spoonful and 
then cut it in halves, lengthwise. 

To measure a quarter-spoonful, measure a half -spoonful 
and divide it into half, crosswise, allowing a little more for 
tip of spoon. 

A saltspoon is one-fourth of a level teaspoon. 

A speck is a little less than one-eighth of a teaspoon. 

To measure butter, lard, and other solid fats, pack solidly 
into spoon or cup and level with knife. 

When recipe calls for one tablespoon (or so) of butter 
melted, measure before melting. When recipe calls for one 
tablespoon (or so) of melted butter, measure after melting. 

TABLE OF HEASUBES AND WEIGHTS 

4 saltspoons =1 teaspoon, tsp. 

3 teaspoons =1 tablespoon, tbsp. 

4 tablespoons , =i cup or i gill. 

16 tablespoons (dry ingredients) =1 cup, c. 

12 tablespoons (liquid) ^1 cup. 



100 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



2 gills 

2 cups 

2 pints 

4 quarts 

2 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon melted butter 

4 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons granulated sugar 

2 tablespoons liquid 

2 tablespoons powdered lime 

1 cup of stale bread crumbs 

1 square Baker's unsweetened chocolate .... 
Juice of one lemon = ( about) 3 tablespoons. . . 

5 table spoons liquid 

4 cups of sifted flour 

2 cups of butter (packed solid ) 

2 cups of finely chopped meat (packed solidly) 
2 cups of granulated sugar 

2§ cups of powdered sugar 

2§ cups brown sugar 

2§ cups oatmeal 

4| cups rolled oats 

9 to 10 eggs 

1 cup of rice 

APOTHECARIES WEIGHTS 



20 grains 

3 scruples 

8 drachms (or 480 grains) 
12 ounces 



APOTHECARIES MEASXTBES 



60 minims (M) 
8 fluid drachms 

16 fluid ounces . 

2 pints 

4 quarts 



— 1 cup. 


= 1 pint. 


= 1 quart. 


= 1 gallon. 


= 1 ounce. 


= 1 ounce. 


= 1 ounce. 


= 1 ounce. 


= 1 ounce. 


= 1 ounce. 


— 2 ounces. 


— 1 ounce. 


= 1 wineglassfuL 


= 1 pound. 


= 1 pound. • 


= 1 pound. 


= 1 pound. 


— 1 pound. 


= 1 pound. 


— 1 pound. 


= 1 pound. 


= 1 pound* 


= i pound. 


1 scruple, 3 


1 drachm, 3 


1 ounce, 5 


1 pound, lb. 


S 

1 fluid drachm, f5 


1 fluid ounce, f^ 


1 pint, or pt. 


1 quart, qt. 


1 gallon, gal. 



APPROXIMATE MEASXTBES 

One teaspoonful equals about 1 fluid drachm. 

One dessertspoonful equals about 2 fluid drachms. 

One tablespoonful equals about 4 fluid drachms. 

One wineglassful equals about 2 ounces. 

One cup (one-half pint) equals about 8 ounces. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 101 



KETBIC SYSTEM 

For the origin and underlying principles of the metric 
system consult any modern arithmetic (Milne's Standard, for 
example). The nurse should know the metric tables and the 
equivalents between the metric and common systems for meas- 
ures of volume and weight. She does not require linear and 
square measure, nor measures of capacity except in a few 
instances. 

The subjoined tables and equivalents will suffice. 

TABLES 
Measures of Volume 

In measuring small quantities the cubic centimeter is the 
unit. 

1 cubic centimeter = 1.0 cc. 

10 cubic centimeters == 10.00 cc. 

1 cubic millimeter = 0.1 cc. 

1-100 cubic millimeter 1 ^ q^, 

1-1000 cubic centimeter J 

MEASXTBES OF WEIGHT 

In measures of weight the gram is the unit. 

1 gram 1.0 gm. 

1 decigram 0.1 gm. 

1 centigram 0.01 gm. 

1 milligram 0.001 gm. 



• 



TABLE OF EaXTIVALENTS 



Appended is a table of all the denominations of weights 
and measures, opposite which are placed the metric system, 
with corresponding equivalents in wine measure and avoirdu- 
pois weights: 



102 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



LIQUIDS 



1 minim 

1 fl. drachm 

1 fl. oz 

4 fl. ozs. or i pint . . . . 
8 fl. ozs. or i pint 

16 fl. ozs. or 1 pint . . . . 

2 pints 

4 pints or i gallon . . . 
1 gallon 

1 Cubic centimeter. 

4 Cc 

15 Cc 

25 Cc 

30 Cc 

60 Cc 

100 Cc 

120 Cc 

125 Cc 

235 Cc 

250 Cc 

300 Cc 

470 Cc. 

600 Cc 

950 Cc 

1000 Cc. (1 Liter).... 
4 Liters 



APPBOXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 



0.06 Cubic centi- 
metre 
4 Cc. 
30 Co. 

118 Cc. (i Liter) 
236 Co. (4 Liter) 
473 Cc. ii Liter) 

1 Liter (1000 Cc.) 

2 Liters. 
4 Liters. 



16 minims. 
1 fluid drachm, 
i fl. oz. (4 fl. drs.) 
6| fl. drs. 

1 fl. oz. 

2 fl. ozs. 
3^ fl. ozs. 

4 fl. ozs. (i pint) 
41 fl. ozs. 
8 fl. ozs. (i pint) 
8i fl. ozs. 
10 fl. ozs. 
1 pint. 

1 pint 1 fl. oz. 

2 pints. 

2 1-10 pints. 
1 gallon. 



EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



0.061 Cc. 



3.696 

29.574 

118.295 

236.690 

473.197 

.946 

1.892 

3.785 



Cc. 

Cc. 

Cc. 

Cc. 

Cc. 

Liter. 

Liters. 

Liters. 



16.23 mins. 

1.082 fl. drs. 

4.057 fl. drs. 

6.762 fl. drs. 

1.014 fl. ozs. 

2.029 fl. ozs. 

3.381 fl. ozs. 

4.057 fl. ozs. 

4.227 fl. ozs. 

7.945 fl. ozs. 

8.463 fl. ozs. 
10.144 fl. ozs. 
15.892 fl. ozs. 

1.066 pints. 

2.007 pints. 

2.113 pints. 

1.066 gals. 



SOLIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1-500 ffrain 


0.00013 Gm. 
0.00043 Gm. 
0.00054 Gm. 
0.00066 Gm. 
0.001 Gm. 

(1 milligramme.) 


0.000129 Gm. 


1-150 ffr 


0.000432 Gm. 


1-120 ST 


0.000540 Gm. 


1-100 ffr 


0.000648 Gm. 


X'l.\3\3 gl 

1 -fid. ar 


0.001013 Gm. 


l-o*t g» 





MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



103 



SOUDB 



APPBOXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 



EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



1-50 gr 

1-40 gr 

132 gr 

1-25 gr 

MO gr 

1-3 gr 

1 gr 

5 grs 

15 grs 

30 grs 

60 grs 

i oz 

i oz 

1 oz. 

2 ozs 

i lb 

i lb 

1 lb 

2 lbs 

1 milligramme 

(0.001 Gm.) 

10 milligrammes 

(0.01 Gm.) 

(=3 1 centigramme.) 
100 milligrammes 

(0.1 Gm.) 

(= 1 decigramme. ) 

1 Gramme 

4 Gm 

10 Gm. (1 deka- 

gramme) 

26 Gm 

«28 Gm 

66 Gm 

100 Gm. (1 hekto- 

gramme) 

113 Gm 

200 Gm 



0.0013 Gm. 
0.0016 Gm. 
0.002 Gm. 
0.0026 Gm. 
0.0066 Gm. 
0.021 Gm. 
0.065 Gm. 
0.3 Gm. 
(3 decigrammes.) 

1 Gm. 

2 Gm. 
4 Gm. 
3.5 Gm* 

14.2 Gm. 

28 Gm. 
^ 56 Gm. 
113 Gm. 
225 Gm. 
450 Gm. 
900 Gm. 



1-65 grain. 
1-6 gr. 

li grs. 

15i grs. 

60 grs. (1 dr. Troy) 

i oz. 
i oz. 

1 oz. (437i grs.) 

2 ozs. 

31 ozs. 



4 ozs. (I lb.) 
7 ozs. 



0.001296 Gnk 

0.001620 Gm. 

0.002025 Gm. 

0.002592 Gm. 

0.006479 Gm. 

0.021599 Gm. 

0.0647^8 Gm. 
0.324 Gm. 

0.972 Gm. 

1.944 Gm. 

3.888 Gm. 

3.544 Gm. 

14.175 Gm. 

28.350 Gm. 

56.699 Gm. 

113.398 Gm. 

226.796 Gm. 

453.592 Gm. 

907.185 Gm. 



0.015 grain. 
0.154 gr. 

1.643 grs. 

15.4324 grs. 
61.729 grs. 

154.324 grs. 
385.81 grs. 
432.107 grs. 
1 oz. 426.7 grs. 

3 ozs. 230.7 grs. 



3 ozs. 431.3 grs. 
7 ozs. 24 grs. 



104 



PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



SOLIDS 



APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 



EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 



7 ozs. 410 grs. 

8 ozs. 358 grs. 
15 ozs. 382 grs. 

1 lb. 1 oz. 279 grs. 

1 lb. 15 ozs. 327 grs. 

2 lbs. 3 ozs. 120 grs. 



225 Gm 

250 Gm 

450 Gm... 

500 Gm 

900 Gm 

1000 Gm. (1 kilo- 
gramme or Kilo) 



8 ozs. (i lb.) 

8t ozs. 

1 lb. (7000 grs.) 

1 1-10 lbs. 

2 lbs. 

2i lbs. 



TABLE POR PEEPARING PERCENTAGE SOLXTTIONS 

Public Charities and the Department of Bellevne and Allied 

Hospitals 1 

One fluid ounce of water, or 480 minims, weighs 456.4 
grains. One pint of water, or 7C80 minims, weighs 7300, or 
practically 7300 grains. Hence, a 10 per cent, solution, for 
instance, is one which contains 730 grains of some substance 
in 1 pint. 

The following table will show at a glance the quantity of 
any substance, by weight, required to prepare one pint of a 
solution : 

1. To Prepare One Pint of a Solution 



REQUIBED TO CONTAIN OF A CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



PER CENT. 



tV 

1 
■BIT 

^^ 



per cent 



(( 



({ 



(( 



a 



(t 



(( 



(( 



OR 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATER TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



1 in 


10,000 


Grains 


0.73 


(i) 


1 in 


. 6,000 




1.46 


(li) 


1 in 


4,000 




1.83 


(11) 


1 in 


3,000 




2.44 


(24) 


1 in 


2,600 




2.92 


(3) 


1 in 


2,000 




3.66 


(31) 


1 in 


1,600 




4.87 


(4i) 


1 in 


1,000 




7.30 


(74) 



^ Arranged by the Public Charities and the Department of Bellevue and 
Allied HojsnLta]&. 



MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 



105 



BEQUIBED TO CONTAIN OF ▲ CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 



ft 
I 

i 

i 
1 

n 

2 

2i 

3 

4 

5 
10 
20 
25 
50 



PER CENT. 



per 



cent 



OB 




1 in 


500 


1 in 


400 


1 in 


300 


1 in 


200 


1 in 


100 


1 in 


75 


1 in 


50 


1 in 


40 


1 in 


331 


1 in 


25 


1 in 


20 


1 in 


10 


1 in 


5 


1 in 


4 


1 in 


2 



TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 
BELOW STATED AMOUNT 
IN GRAINS WITH 

ENOUGH WATER TO 
MAKE 1 PINT. 



Grains 


14.60 


(14i) 


€( 


18.25 


(18i) 


ft 


24.33 


(24i) 


ft 


36.50 


(36i) 


tl 


73.00 


(73) 


t€ 


97.33 


(97) 


tt 


146.00 


(146) 


tt 


182.50 


(180) 


€( 


219.22 


(220) 


ft 


292.00 


(290) 


tt 


365.00 


(365) 


tt 


730.00 


(730) 


ft 


1460.00 


(1460) 


(t 


1825.00 


(1825) 


tt 


3650.00 


(3650) 



2. To Prepare One Fluid Ounce of a Solution 



BEQUIKED TO CONTAIN OF 
A SUBSTANCE 


0.1 


per cent. 
it 

tt . 

ft 

tf 

tf 

tf 
tt 
ft 
tt 
ft 
ft 




0.5 




1 




2 




• 

3 




4 




5 




6 




7 




8 




9 




10 





TAKE OF THE SUBSTANCE 







APPROX. 




0.46 


grain 


(i 


gr-) 




2.28 


<( 


(21 


« \ 




4.56 


ft 


(4i 


ft \ 




9.13 


ft 


(9 


tt \ 


And 


13.69 


ft 


(13i 


ft \ 


. enough 


18.26 


tt 


(18i 


ft \ 


water 


22.82 


ft 


(23 


ft \ 


to 


27.38 


ft 


(27i 


ft \ 


make 


31.95 


ft 


(32 


f( \ 


1 fluid ounce. 


36.51 


ft 


(36i 


tt \ 




41.08 


ft 


(41 


ft \ 




45.64 


ft 


(45 J 


ft \ 





106 PRACTICAL DIETETICS 



THERMOMETRY 

The thermometers used by the nurse in cookery, in regu- 
lating the heat of the room or in taking the patient's tempera- 
tures are chiefly of the Fahrenheit scale. Scientists employ 
the Centigrade scale in most countries. While thermometers 
are made with both scales, it is a simple matter to translate 
the ordinary Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 

The freezing point of the latter is 0**, while that of the 
former is 32° above 0. 

The boiling point of the latter is 100**, while that of the 
former is 212**. 

Hence, to change Fahrenheit to Centigrade, we subtract 
32** from 212° in order that the freezing points correspond, 
which leaves 180° F.= 100** Ce A degree Centigrade is 
therefore 5/9 of a degree Fahrenheit. 

To change Centigrade to Fahrenheit, every Fahrenheit de- 
gree is 9/5 times as large as a Centigrade degree. It is also 
necessary to add 32° to the result. 

Examples: Change 212® Fahrenheit to Centigrade. 
212**— 32°= 180*» X 6-9 = 100*» C. 

Change 100® Centrigrade to Fahrenheit. 
100® X 9-6= 180® -f 32® =212® F. 



PART II 

BEVERAGES 

ANIMAL FOODS 

VEGETABLE FOODS 

NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



CHAPTER VIII 
BEVESAOES 

ACID — ALBinnHOTrS — STABCHY — XISCELLANEOTTS BEVES- 
AOES, INCLTJBINO TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, AJSTD COCOA, 
AND SPECIAL NON-NTTTEITIYE BEVEBAaES 

Beverages serve primarily to relieve thirst. The universal 
beverage is water.^ Other beverages answer the same pur- 
pose, because their chief constituent is water. They are also 
taken for their temperature — cold or hot; for their flavor, 
"which helps to arouse or appease the appetite; or for their 
stimulating properties. Usually they have little or no energy 
value, but when made with milk, eggs, cocoa, chocolate or 
other highly nutritive materials, they become a valuable 
means of administering food in a liquid form. 

All beverages need to be made with much care and served 
daintily. Hot drinks should be served at a temperature of 
122-140® F. When water is used it should be freshly 
drawn, brought to a boil and used at once. This serves to 
sterilize it and also to develop a better flavor. 

Cold drinks should be given thoroughly cooled, but iced 
liquids lower the temperature of the stomach unless sipped 
very slowly, and thus tend to retard digestion. They are 
therefore better for serving between meals than with them. 
Do not use ice in a beverage unless it is made from pure water, 
but cool by placing the receptacle on ice. Use a separate 
spoon, and taste every beverage just before serving to be sure 
it is properly seasoned and of correct temperature. 

N^ever allow a drink to stand any length of time in a sick 
room. If it has to be carried any distance, be sure that it 
is covered. 

iSee Water, page 23. 

109 



110 BEVERAGES 



ACID BEVEBAGES 

Beverages made from fruit juices are cooling and refresh- 
ing, and hence especially grateful to fever patients. They 
are valuable for the organic acids, minerar matter, and sugar 
which they contain. Some of them, as lemonade and orange- 
ade, have an added value in their diuretic and diaphoretic 
action. The organic acids are useful in constipation, as they 
stimulate peristaltic action. These acids vary with the kind 
of fruit ; thus, apples contain malic acid ; lemons, citric acid ; 
grapes, tartaric acid, etc. These acids, as elsewhere stated,^ 
occur in the form of acid salts, usually of potassium, and in 
the body are changed to carbonates, which preserve the alka- 
linity of the blood. Ripe pineapple juice contains a ferment 
capable of digesting proteins. 

Wash lemons and oranges, and in using the juice remove 
the seeds, as they give a bitter taste. When the rind of lemon 
or orange is undesirable medicinally, it should not be used. 

Serve acid beverages daintily in glasses or sherbet cups 
(three-fourths tilled), pass on small tray or plate, covered 
with doily, and add a few wafer crackers, or a single flower. 

Sweetening Acid Drinks. For the diabetic, sugar must be 
replaced by Sweetina. 

Whenever cold water is to be used instead of very hot or 
boiling water in preparing the drinks, it is preferable to use 
" sugar syrup '' for sweetening in place of sugar, which re- 
quires time for solution. 

.As the acidity of fruit varies considerably with the kind, 
and with the season of year, this, fact must be borne in mind 
while preparing the foregoing recipes, otherwise too much 
sugar may be added. 

SXTGAR SYRTTP, 420 CALORIES 

% cup of sugar. ^ cup of boiling water. 

Mix the sugar and water and stir until the sugar is dis- 

. * See Mineral Matter, p. 31. 



ACID BEVERAGES 111 

solved. Boil slowly, without stirring, for fifteen minutes; 
cool slightly and bottle. 

LEMONADE, 137 CALORIES 

1 lemon. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% cup boiling water. ^ thin slice lemon. 

Wash and wipe lemon; cut a very thin slice from middle. 
Squeeze juice into a bowl (keeping back the seeds), add the 
sugar and boiling water; cover, and put on ice to cool. 
Strain and pour into a glass or sherbet cup. 

Cut half the slice of lemon into two pieces, and use as 
garnish in glass; or a few berries or slice of orange may be 
used. 

Note. — The quantity of sugar used depends upon the 
acidity of fruit. 

FRXTIT LEMONADE 

Add fresh fruit of all kinds to strong lemonade, using boil- 
ing water for the beverage, cool, and chill on ice. 

B&AN LEMONADE, 20 CALORIES 

Ya cup wheat bran. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups cold water. 

Allow the bran and water to stand overnight. Strain, and 
add the juiceof the lemon. 

SODA OR APOLUHARIS LEMONADE, 137 CALORIES 

Juice of 1 lemon. l^ teaspoon soda, free from 

1 or 2 tablespoons sugar. lumps. 
% cup cold water. 

Prepare the lemonade to taste, cool, add the soda, stir 
thoroughly, and drink while effervescing. 

Note. — Put glass on plate when soda is added. Water and 
soda may be omitted and ApoUinaris water substituted. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE, 186 CALORIES 

% cup grated pineapple or juice. % cup boiling water, 
juice 1 lemon. 1 cup ice-cold water. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 



112 BEVERAGES 

Mix pineapple, lemon juice and sugar, and add the boiling 
water. Cool, add ice-cold water, strain and serve. 

Note. — Canned pineapple may be used or Hawaiian pine- 
apple juice. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE, 25 CALORIES i 

^ cup Irish moss. 4 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss (soaking 15 minutes). 
Drain and add the cold water ; cook in top of double boiler 
about 20 minutes or until syrupy. If it becomes too thick, 
add hot water. Strain, add the lemon juice and sugar to 
taste. Reheat and serve hot. 

Excellent for sore throat and cold on the lungs, or any 
inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

GRAPE LEMONADE, 200 CALORIES 

Make one cup lemonade, rather sweet, add one-fourth cup 
Welch's Grape Juice. 

EOO LEMONADE 

See " Albuminous Beverages '^ for recipe. Page 121. 

ORANGEADE, 197 CALORIES 

1 sour orange. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

y2 cup boiling water. ^ slice orange. 

Prepare as for lemonade. If orange is not very acid, add 
a little lemon juice or use less sugar. 

ORANGEADE NO. II, 77 CALORIES 

Put two tablespoons of crushed ice in dainty glasses and 
pour the juice of one orange over it. Sweeten if desired. 

FRinXADE, 45 CALORIES 

^ cup grated pineapple 1 cup boiling water. 

Juice Yg lemon. Sugar. 

Juice ^ orange. 

Prepare fruit. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon 
sugar; allow to stand until cool. Add more water or sugar 
if necessary. Strain and serve cold. 

1 Without sugar. 



ACID BEVERAGES 113 

PINEAPPLE JTTICE, ABOUT 50 CALORIES 

"Yz cup Hawaiian Pineapple Juice. Crushed Ice. 

Pour the pineapple juice over crushed ice and serve in 
dainty glasses. This is delicious and has remedial qualities ; 
especially valuable in throat and stomach trouble. 

LEMOH WHEY, 96 CALORIES 

1 cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water, or in a 
double-boiler. Add the lemon juice. Cook without stirring 
until the whey separates. Strain through cheese-cloth, and 
add the sugar. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with small pieces 
of slice of lemon. 

WINE WHEY, 84 CALORIES 

1 cup sweet milk. ^ cup sherry wine. 

Heat the milk to boiling point, add the wine, and cook with- 
out stirring until the milk separates. Strain through a fine 
strainer, and serve hot or cold. 

ACID PHOSPHATE 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate is a solution of the phosphates 
of lime, magnesia, potash and iron with phosphoric acid,, 
in such form as to be readily assimilated by the system. It 
is thus a true nerve and tissue food. 

1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid Phos- 1 cup hot or cold water, 
phate. Sugar. 

Mix the Acid Phosphate with the water and sweeten with 
sugar, if desired. 

If the above should seem too strong, or be found too stimu- 
lating, use one-half teaspoon of the Acid Phosphate. 

Note.^- Horsf ord^s Acid Phosphate can be substituted for 
lemon juice in any of the acid drinks. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY, 56 CALOKIES 

1 cup hot milk. 1 teaspoon Horsford's Acid Phos- 

2 teaspoons sugar. phate. 



114 BEVERAGES 

Heat the milk in a small saucepan over hot water or in 
a double boiler. Add the Acid Phosphate. Cook without 
stirring until the whey separates. Strain through cheese- 
cloth and add the sugar. If more acid is desired, add two 
or three drops of Horsford^s Acid Phosphate. Serve hot or 
cold. 

CREAM OF TARTAR DRINZ 

1 or lYg teaspoons Cream. Lemon, 
of Tartar. Sugar. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Dissolve the cream of tartar in the boiling water, and 
flavor with lemon and sugar. When cold strain. Take as a 
refrigerant drink and diuretic. 

MALTED MILK AND CXTRRANT JELLY, 85 CALORIES 

r tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 tablespoon currant jelly. 

Milk. % cup cold water. 

% cup boiling water. Cracked ice. 

Mix the malted milk powder with a little of the boiling 
water to make a smooth paste, add the jelly and the rest of 
the water, and stir till the jelly is dissolved. Add the cold 
water and ice, strain and serve daintily in glass or sherbet 
cup, partly filled, and set on a small plate with doily. 

MALTED MILK WITH WINE, 88 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 1 teaspoon port or sherry wine. 

Milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

1 cup hot water. 

Mix the malted milk powder with enough of the hot water 
to make a smooth paste, then add gradually the rest of the 
hot water, the wine, and sugar if desired. 

JELLY AND ICE 

With a large needle or pin, chip half a cup of ice into 
bits as large as a pea (or use an ice-scraper). Mix with it 
about the same quantity of lemon, currant, blackberry, or 
barberry jelly. Very refreshing in fevers. Be sure ice is 
perfectly pure. 



ACID BEVERAGES 115 

GRAPE WATER, 135 CALORIES i 

4 tablespoons grape jelly. % cup cold water. 

Y2 cup boiling water. Lemon juice and sugar. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water, then add the cold 
water, season to taste. Serve ice cold, 

CTTRRANT WATER, 100-125 CALORIES 1 

Va cnp currant juice or 14 cup cold water. 

4 tablespoons currant jelly. Lemon juice and sugar. 

14 cup boiling water. 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water (put over heat a 
few moments if it does not dissolve quickly). When dis- 
solved add the cold water, sweeten to taste, and add a little 
lemon juice, if desired. Serve cold. 

APPLE, WATER, 25 CALORIES 1 

1 sour apple. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wipe a rosy-cheeked sour apple, and, without paring it,, 
cut it into small pieces. Add the boiling water and one table- 
spoon sugar. Cover, and let it stand till cold, then strain,, 
and add lemon juice and sugar to taste. Serve cold. 

Note. — Dried apple may be substituted, or two baked ap- 
ples. 

RHUBARB WATER, 15 CALORIES 1 

1 stalk rhubarb. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. Sugar. 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and cut in thin slices, leaving^ 
on the skin. Add the boiling water and one tablespoon sugar. 
Cover, and let stand till cold. Strain, add lemon juice and 
sugar to taste, and serve cold. 

TAMARIND WATER, 60 CALORIES 2 

2 tablespoons preserved tama- 1 cup boiling water, 
rinds. Sugar. 

Pour the water over the tamarinds and let stand one-half 
hour. Sweeten to taste, strain and serve cold. 

1 Without lemon juice or sugar. 

^Without sugar. Estimated from average composition of preserves. 



116 BEVERAGES 

TAHABIND MALTED MILK, 115 CALOEIES 

2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted % cup hot water. 
Milk. Yz cup cold water. 

1 tablespoon tamarinds. Cracked ice. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and hot 
water, add preserved tamarinds and the cold water. Strain 
and chill, or add pure cracked ice. 

GRAPE JinCE 
(% cup = 120 Calories.) 

Partially fill a small glass with crushed ice, and add Welch's 
Grape Juice and serve. 

Grape juice is a tonic food and a medicine for the sick 
and convalescent. It may be served plain, cold or hot, or 
diluted with one-third water. It is preferable- to keep and 
serve the juice very cold. The bottles may be kept on ice 
until ready to serve. 

GBAPE LITHIA, 75 CALORIES 

Pour one ounce of Welch's Grape Juice into a glass, dis- 
solve in it two teaspoons of sugar, and add four ounces of 
lithia water. 

GRAPE NECTAR, 2750 CALORIES 
(About 2 Quarts.) 

Boil together one pound of sugar and one-half pint of 
water until it spins a thread ; remove from the fire, and when 
cool, add the juice of six lemons and one quart of Welch's 
Grape Juice. Let stand over night. Serve with ice water, 
Apollinaris or plain soda. 

TEA PUNCH 

Few beverages find readier fa\or during the hot weather 
ihsLTL tea punch. To make it, pour boiling lemonade, sweet- 
ened to taste, over the tea leaves, and allow the liquid to stand 
until cold. Then strain and serve in tall glasses, with shaved 
ice and slices of lemon. 



ACID BEVERAGES 117 

TBXriT PUNCH, 2100 CALORIES 

(3 Quarts.) 

2 large teaspoons tea. 3 oranges. 

2 quarts boiling water. 1 pineapple. 

1 pound lump sugar. 5 bananas. 

8 lemons. 1 pint strawberries. 

Steep the tea in the boiling water for five minutes, strain 
and add the sugar, stirring until thoroughly dissolved. Grate 
the rind of the lemons and extract all the juice. Cut the 
oranges into slices, shred the pineapple, slice the bananas 
very thin and hull the strawberries. When the tea is cold 
add all the fruit, and let stand in the refrigerator for several 
hours. Place a cube of ice in the punch-bowl, pour the mix- 
ture around it, and when well chilled serve in punch glasses. 
If desired, one cup of Maraschino cherries may be added. 

To get the best results from the pineapple, pare and remove 
the eyes, tear apart with a silver knife and fork, reject the 
core, sprinkle with sugar and let stand on ice for twelve 
hours. 

While fresh fruits are always preferable, canned berries 
and pineapples may be substituted. 

TUTTI-FBTTTTI PUNCH, 2300 CALORIES 

(3 Quarts.). 

2 quarts water. 2 tangerine oranges. 

1 pound sugar. 4 slices pineapple. 

2 lemons. 1 banana. 

4 oranges. 1 pint Maraschino cherries. 

2 dozen Malaga grapes. 

Boil together for five minutes the water and sugar. Add 
the grated rind of two lemons and four oranges, and continue 
boiling for ten minutes longer. Strain the syrup through 
cheese-cloth, and add one quart of cold water. Extract the 
juice from the lemons and oranges, strain and mix with two 
dozen Malaga grapes, cut in half and seeded, the tangerine 
oranges sliced, the pineapple shredded, the banana cut in 
slices, and one pint bottle of Maraschino cherries with their 



118 BEVERAGES 

liquor. Add the fruit to the syrup, chill and serve same as 
JFruit Punch. 

ALBITMINOirS BEVEEAOES 

When a large amount of nutriment is required the al- 
buminized drinks are valuable. 

The egg is a fluid food until its albumin is coagulated by 
heat. Often the white of egg, dissolved in water or milk, 
and flavored, is given when the yolk cannot be digested, as 
SO per cent, of the yolk is fat. Egg-nog is very nutritious, 
and is extensively prescribed in certain non-febrile diseases, 
especially for the forced alimentation of phthisis and melan- 
<?holia. There are occasional cases of bilious habit, in which 
<?ggs to be digested must be beaten in wine. But the combi- 
nation of egg, milk and sugar with alcohol, which constitutes 
egg-nog, is apt to produce nausea and vomiting in a feeble 
stomach, especially in fever. For this reason whole eggs are 
unfit for fever patients, and the whites only should be used. 

Albuminized drinks are most easily prepared cold. When 
a hot liquid is used, it must be poured very slowly into the 
vrell-beaten egg, stirring constantly, so that lumps of coagu- 
lated albumin do not form. 

For the Diabetic. In all the albuminous drinks substitute 
Sweetina for the sugar. The fuel value will be 60 calories 
less in every recipe than when one tablespoon of sugar is 
used. 

ENERGY VALT7E OF AN EGG 

1 medium egg (without shell) =60 Calories. 

1 white of egg (average) =13 " 

1 yolk of egg (average) =48 " 

EGG BBOTH, 319 CALORIES i 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 cup hot milk. 

Brandy or some other stimulant if required. 

Beat egg, add sugar and salt. Pour on carefully the hot 
milk. Flavor as desired, if with brandy or wine, use about 
one tablespoon. 

^Calculated with 1 tbsp. brandy. 277 Calories if brandy is omitted. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 119 

Note. — Dried and rolled bread crumbs may be added, if 
desired. The whole egg may be used. Hot water, broth or 
coffee, may be substituted for the milk; nutmeg may be sub- 
stituted for the stimulant. 

EGG-NOG NO. I, 231 CALORIES i 

1 egg. % cup milk. 

Speck salt. ly^ tablespoon wine or 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt ; blend thoroughly, add 
the milk and liquor. Serve immediately. 

Note. — Have eggs and milk chilled before blending. A 
grating of nutmeg may be substituted for the stimulant. A 
lemonade shaker may be used for the blending. 

EGG-NOG NO. U, 231 CALORIES i 

1 egg. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon brandy (or less). 

Speck salt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and salt, and beat until 
creamy. Add the milk and brandy. Beat the white till 
foamy (not stiff and dry), and fold it in lightly. Serve im- 
mediately. 

JTTNXET EGG-NOG, 304 CALORIES i 

1 egg. 2 teaspoons rum, brandy, or 

1 cup milk. wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. ^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Beat white and yolk of egg separately, very light; blend 
the two. Add the sugar dissolved in the rum. Heat the 
milk lukewarm, stir into the egg mixture, and add quickly 
the tablet dissolved in cold water. Pour into small warm 
glasses, and sprinkle grated nutmeg over the top. Stand in 
warm room undisturbed until firm, and then put on ice to 
cool. This can be retained by the most delicate stomach. 

^ Without liquor. 



120 BEVERAGES 

BEEF EOG-KOG, 200 CAIOBIES 

1 egg. % cup hot beef broth. 

Speck salt. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

Beat the egg slightly, add the salt and sugar; add grad- 
ually the hot broth; add brandy and strain. Sugar and 
brandy may be omitted if preferred. 

COFFEE EGG-NOG, 175 CALOBIES i 

1 egg. V2 scant cup milk or cream. 

ly^ teaspoon sugar. Vs sca-nt cup strong coffee. 

Chill ingredients, and blend as for Egg-nog No. II. 

PINEAPPLE EGG-NOG 

Prepare as per Egg-nog No. I or II ; omit the brandy and 
use pineapple juice to taste. 

EGG AND BTTM, 315 CALORIES 

Famous in the Treatment of Phthisis 
1 cup fresh milk. Speck salt. 

Yolk 1 egg. Few grains nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon rum. 

Beat yolk, add sugar, salt and nutmeg; add milk and rum. 

Note. — For consumptives, taken at about 6 a. m., often 
prevents the exhausting sweats which accompany the morn- 
ing doze. Also may be given to a patient before dressing to 
prevent exhaustion. 

EGG AND BBANDY, 350 CALORIES 2 

3 eggs. 4 tablespoons brandy. 

4 tablespoons cold water. Sugar. 
Nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs, add cold water, brandy and sweeten to taste. 
A little nutmeg may be added. Give a tablespoonful at a 
lime. 

EGG AND WINE, 125 CALORIES 2 

1 egg. 1 wineglass sherry. 

14 cup cold water. Nutmeg. 

Sugar. 

* Cnl cilia ted with milk. 
^ Without sugar. 



ALBUMINOUS BEYER AGE 8 121 

Beat the egg. Heat the water and wine together but not 
boiling; pour onto the egg, stirring constantly; flavor with 
sugar and nutmeg. 

EGG LEMONADE, 192 CALORIES, 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup cold water. 

Beat the egg thoroughly, add the sugar and lemon juice; 
pour in gradually the water, stirring until smooth and well 
mixed. Strain and serve. Two tablespoons of sherry or port 
may be added if desired. 

XALTEB HILX AND EGG, 120 CALOKIES 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted 20 drops acid phosphate. 
Milk. 1 tablespoon crushed ice. 

1 tablespoon crushed fruit. % cup ice water. 

Mix the malted milk powder, crushed fruit and egg and 
beat five minutes. Add the phosphate and crushed ice, blend- 
ing thoroughly. Strain and add ice water or cold carbonated 
water, and a grating of nutmeg to flavor. 

STOKES MIZTTJBE 

Eggs and Brandy = 196 Calories. 

" 2 egg yolks, 50 c. c. of brandy, 120 c. c. of aqua aurantii 
florun (sugar or syrup enough to sweeten), has consider- 
able nutritive, as well as stimulative, value, and is eligible 
for use when such a combination is indicated." 

GBAPE YOLK, 150 CALORIES 

1 egg. 2 tablespoons Welch's Grape 

1 tablespoon sugar. Juice. 

Speck salt. 

Separate egg. Beat yolk, add sugar and stand aside while 
the white is thoroughly whipped. Add the grape juice to the 
yolk and pour this onto the whipped white, blending care- 
fully. Serve cold. Have all ingredients chilled before blend- 
ing. 



122 BEVERAGES 

OBAFE JinCE AND EOG, 270 CALORIES 

1 egg. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

% cup rich milk. % cup Welch's Grape Juice. 

Beat yolk and white separately very light. To the yolk 
add milk, sugar and grape juice, and pour into glass. To the 
white add a little powdered sugar and a taste of grape juice. 
Serve on yolk mixture. Chill all ingredients before using. 

HVLLED WIKE, 250-280 CALOBIES 

1 ounce stick cinnamon. % cup sherry, port, or claret 

A slight grating nutmeg. wine. 

^ cup boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg- 
Put the spices into top of a double boiler with the water. 
Cover and cook over hot water ten minutes. Add wine to the 
spiced water and bring to the boiling point. Beat the egg 
to a stiff froth, add sugar and pour on the mulled wine, and' 
beat well. Serve at once. 

ALBinaNIZED MUX, 98 CALOBIES 

Yg cup milk (sterile). Salt. 

White 1 egg. 

Put milk and white of egg in a glass fruit jar, cover with 
air tight cap and rubber band. Shake until thoroughly 
blended. Strain into glass. A few grains of salt may be 
added if desired. 

Note. — The blending may be done in a lemonade shaker. 

ALBVHINIZEI) WATEB, 13 CALOBIES i 

14 cup ice-cold water Lemon juice. 

(boiled and chilled). Sugar. 

White 1 egg. 

Blend as for " Albuminized Milk,^^ serve plain or add lemon 
juice and sugar to taste. If set on ice to keep cool, shake 
before serving. 

ALBinaK WATEB (FOB INFANTS), 13 CALOBIES 

Albumin water is utilized chiefly in cases of acute stomach 
and intestinal disorders in which some nutritious and easily 

^Without lemon juice or sugar. 



ALBUMINOUS BEVERAGES 123 

assimilated food is needed; albumin water is then very useful. 
The white of one egg is dissolved in eight ounces or a pint 
of water which has been boiled and cooled.r— Koplik. 

ALBinaNIZED CLAX WATEB, 18 CALORIES 

1 cup cold water. White 1 egg. 
Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make tlie strength desired, add the unbeaten white of eggy 
and follow general directions for " Albuminized Milk.'' 
Serve cold in dainty glasses. This is a very nutritious drink, 
and will be retained by the stomach when other nourishment 
is rejected. 

Note. — Milk may be substituted for the water. 

AIBUHINIZED OBANOE, 30 CALORIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

Juice 1 orange. 

To the unbeaten white add the orange juice, sweeten to 
taste and blend thoroughly. Strain and set on ice to cool. 
Serve cold. 

ALBUHIKIZED SHERRY, 22 CALORIES i 

White 1 egg. Sugar. 

Yf to 1 tablespoon sherry. 

Beat the white stiff, add slowly, while beating, the wine and 
sugar. Serve cold. 

Note. — Have all ingredients cold before blending. 

ALBTTHINIZED GRAPE JITICE, 40 CALORIES i 

2 tablespoons Welch's Sugar. 
Grape Juice. Chopped ice. 

White 1 egg. 

Put in a dainty glass the grape juice, and the beaten white 
of egg and a little pure chopped ice ; sprinkle sugar over the 
top and serve. 

^Without sugar. 



124 BEVERAGES 

STARCHY BEVEEAOES 

Starchy drinks consist of cereals or cereal products, cooked 
thoroughly in a large amount of water and strained before 
serving. Arrowroot, cornstarch, tapioca, rice and rice flour 
are nearly pure starch. Oats, barley and wheat in forms 
which include the whole grains contain besides starch some 
protein and fat, and also valuable mineral matter, especially 
phosphorus, iroti, and calcium salts.^ In starchy drinks, 
these ingredients are necessarily present in small amounts; 
hence they have little energy value, unless milk or other 
highly nutritive material is added. Such drinks are of value 
when only a small quantity of nutriment can be taken. 

Principles of Cooking, As the chief ingredient is starch, 
long cooking is necessary, in water at a high temperature 
(212° F.), which softens the cellulose, and breaks open the 
starch grains, changing the insoluble starch to soluble starch 
and dextrin, so that it can be very readily digested. Time 
of cooking should be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

Digestion. The action of ptyalin is very rapid, and if these 
drinks are sipped slowly, so as to be thoroughly mixed with 
saliva, a considerable portion of starch may be changed to 
sugar before reaching the intestines. 

BARLEY WATER, 180 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons pearl barley. 1 quart cold water. 

Wash barley, add cold water and let soak several hours or 
over night; in same water, boil gently over direct heat two 
hours, or in a double boiler steadily four hours, down to one 
pint if used for infant feeding, and to one cup for the adult. 
Strain through muslin. 

Note. — Cream or milk and salt may be added, or lemon 
juice and sugar. Barley water is an astringent or demulcent 
drink used to reduce laxative condition. 

^See Mineral Matter, p. 81. 



STARCHY BEVERAGES 125 

BARLEY WATER (INFANT FEEDING), 19 CALORIES 

1 teaspoon barley flour. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 tablespoons cold water. 

Blend flour and cold water to a smooth paste in top of 
double boiler; add gradually the boiling water. Boil over 
direct heat five minutes, stirring constantly, then put over 
boiling water and cook 15 minutes longer, stirring frequently. 
Older infants take the barley water in much more concentrated 
form. Barley water is used as a diluent with normal infants 
and in forms of diarrhoea. 

Note. — For children or adults, use I/2 tablespoon barley or 
rice flour, 1 cup boiling water, % teaspoon salt. 

RICE WATER, 100 CALORIES 1 

2 tablespoons rice. Salt. 

3 cups cold water. Milk. 

Wash the rice; add cold water and soak thirty minutes, 
heat gradually to boiling point and cook one hour or until 
rice is tender. Strain, reheat and dilute with boiling water 
or hot milk to desired consistency. Season with salt. 

Note. — Sugar may be added if desired, and cinnamon, if 
allowed, may be cooked with it, and will assist in reducing a 
laxative condition. 

RICE WATER NO. H, 160 CALORIES 

3 tablespoons rice. 1 tablespoon stoned raisins. 

1 pint boiling water. 

Wash rice, put into saucepan with water and raisins ; boil 
gently for one hour. Strain. When cold serve. Sugar or 
salt may be added to taste. 

Note. — Do not use raisins in bowel trouble. 

OATMEAL WATER, 50 CALORIES 

1 tablespoon oatmeal. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 1 quart boiling water. 

Mix oatmeal and cold water, add salt and stir into the 
boiling water. Boil three hours; replenish the water as it 

1 Without milk. 



126 BEVERAGES 

boils away. Strain through a fine sieve or cheese cloth. 
Season, serve cold. Different brands of oatmeal vary consid- 
erably in the amount of water which they take up in cooking, 
and sufficient should always be added to make this drink al- 
most as thin as water. 

OATMEAL WATER NO. H, 220 CALORIES i 

y^ cup fine oatmeal. 1 quart water. 

Use sterile water (boiled and cooled). Add oatmeal and 
stand in warm place (covered), for one and one-half hours. 
Strain, season, and cool. Sometimes used for dyspeptics. 

TOAST WATER, 350 CALORIES 

1 cup stale bread toasted. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Cut bread in thin slices and in inch squares. Dry thor- 
oughly in oven until crisp and a delicate brown. Measure, 
and break into crumbs; add the water and let it stand one 
hour. Eub through a fine strainer, season and serve hot or 
cold. The nourishment of the bread is easily absorbed in 
this way and valuable in cases of fever or extreme nausea. 

Note. — Milk or cream and sugar may be added. 

CRUST COFPEE 

Take some pieces and crusts of brown bread and dry them 
in a slow oven until thoroughly hard and crisp. Place in a 
mortar and pound or roll. Pour boiling water over and let 
soak for about fifteen minutes. This when strained carefully 
is very acceptable to invalids who are tired of the ordinary 
drinks, such as lemonade, etc. 

CRACKER PANADA, 100 CALORIES 2 

4 hard crackers. Sugar. 

1 quart water. 

Break crackers into pieces and bake quite brown ; add water 
and boil fifteen minutes, allow to stand three or four minutes. 
Strain off the liquid through a fine wire sieve ; season with salt 

^ Estimated on one-half the oatmeal, 
s Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 127 

and a little sugar. This is a nourishing beverage for infants 
that are teething, and with the addition of a little wine and 
nutmeg, is often prescribed for invalids recovering from a 
fever. 

BBEAD PANADA, 162 CALOEIES 

1% cups water. % cup white wine. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

2 tablespoons stale white bread Nutmeg, 
crumbs. 

Put water and sugar on to cook, just before it commences 
to boil add the bread crumbs ; stir well, and let it boil three 
or four minutes. Add the wine, lemon and a grating of nut- 
meg ; let it boil up once, remove from fire, and keep it closely 
covered until it is wanted for use. 

MISCELLANEOirS BEVEBAOES 

TEA — COFFEE —CHOCOLATE — COCOA AND SPECIAL NON-NTT- 

TBITIVE BEVERAGES 

TEA 

Source. The tea of commerce is prepared from the leaves 
of a shrub cultivated for this purpose in China, Japan, India, 
Ceylon, and o,ther portions of Southern and Eastern Asia. 

Classes of Tea. There are two great classes of tea, the 
green and the black. The difference lies in the mode of 
preparation. Green teas are quickly dried and fired; black 
teas are allowed to ferment a few hours before drying and 
firing. 

Active Principles of Tea. Tea has practically no food 
value. Its principal constituents are caffein, tannic acid, and 
a volatile oil. 

Its flavor is due to the volatile oil; its stimulating prop- 
erties to the caffein. Tannic acid is a soluble, bitter sub- 
stance, which has a retarding effect on digestion. 

When tea leaves are placed in boiling water, caffein is ex- 
tracted very rapidly. Tannic acid is less soluble, and there- 
fore it is possible to make tea with little of this principle by 
letting the water stand on the leaves only a short time. In 



128 BEVERAGES 

practice, the hot, but not boiling water, should stand on the 
tea from 3 to 5 minutes. The water should be soft, as 
lime in hard water tends to make tannin dissolve more freely. 
Green or mixed tea is more powerful than black tea. 

Effects of Tea. Tea is mildly stimulating and hence re- 
freshing, as it removes the sense of bodily fatigue. But the 
tannic acid retards the digestive action of the saliva and gas- 
tric juice, and tends to produce constipation. Tea is there- 
fore not suitable for persons suffering from gastric disorders. 
The caffein is over-stimulating to the nervous system of 
many persons, causing restlessness, sleeplessness and muscular 
tremors. It should not be given to children, nor to adults 
with a tendency to nervousness. If you wish to avoid the 
retarding effect of tea on salivary digestion, direct the patient 
not to sip the beverage with the meal, but to eat first and 
drink afterward; in this way time is given for the saliva 
to perform its intended functions. 

Tea is less likely to cause sleeplessness if lemon juice is 
substituted for milk. 

COFFEE 

Source. This beverage is prepared from the seeds of the 
coffee tree (Caffea arabica), which grows in many warm 
countries, though originally found in Arabia. The coffee 
berry is about the color and size of a ripe cherry, and con- 
tains two seeds placed face to face. 

Active Principles of Coffee. The active principles of cof- 
fee are essentially the same as those in tea. By the roasting 
process a volatile oil is liberated (called caffeol) to which the 
aroma is due. The caffein is chemically the same as in tea, 
and according to Hutchison (p. 310), a cup of black coffee 
contains about as large a quantity of caffein and tannic acid 
as a cup of tea. 

Effects of Coffee. Coffee has only a slight retarding in- 
fluence on salivary digestion, compared with tea, but an 
equally detrimental effect on gastric digestion. 

As a stimulant it effects more directly the central nervous 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 129 

system; the heart action is considerably increased in rate 
as well as strength. Indirectly^ this results in an increased 
activity of the kidneys. The respiration is deepened and the 
cerebral centers excited. For this reason it often proves use- 
ful in cases of opium and alcoholic poisoning. In some per- 
sons these effects are very mild; in others, they are severe, 
producing nervousness and insomnia, and coffee should be 
withheld. It removes the sensation of fatigue, for which 
reason it is used by many nurses when on night duty. It 
should never be given to children. 

Coffee or tea taken with either milk or sugar alone is much 
more healthful and less likely to cause ill effects than when 
both are used. 

Frequently after operation freshly made black coffee or 
tea without milk or sugar will be retained, and in some cases 
check vomiting. Give the patient one-half teaspoonful at 
frequent intervals. 

Many preparations have been put upon the market as 
coffee substitutes, but they lack the aromatic oil and caffein 
for which it is really prized. They make, however, pleasing 
hot beverages, and served with sugar and cream, have a food 
value. 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Source. Cocoa and chocolate are commercially prepared 
from the seeds of the cocao tree, Theobroma cocao. The seeds 
(or beans) are contained in a pulpy fruit 7-12 inches long, 
3-5 inches in diameter, in shape intermediate between a melon 
and a cucumber. The fruit is gathered and allowed to re- 
main in a heap to ferment a few days, when the pulp becomes 
loosened. The seeds lose some of their bitterness during this 
process, upon which the flavor of the bean largely depends. 
They are then dried in the sun, cleaned and sorted, and care- 
fully roasted. After this the thin outer husks are removed 
and sold under the name of cocoa shells. The broken roasted 
beans constitute cocoa nibs. 

Chocolate is prepared by grinding the nibs between hot 
rollers to a great degree of fineness. The presence of 50 per 



130 BEVERAGES 

cent, fat causes the mass to form a paste. This is molded 
and cooled with or without the addition of sugar and flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoa consists of chocolate deprived of a part of the fat. 
Sugar or starch or both, are sometimes added. 

Resemblance to Tea and Coffee. Chocolate and cocoa con- 
tain a volatile oil, set free by the fermentation process and 
further modified by roasting, to which the characteristic 
flavor is due. They also contain tannic acid, but in smaller 
amount than in tea or coffee. The stimulating principle 
of chocolate and cocoa is an alkaloid closely allied to caffein, 
called theobromin. It is less apt to induce nervous S3miptom8 
than either tea or coffee, but in many persons their stimulat- 
ing power is distinctly felt. 

Nutritive Value. Unlike tea and coffee, chocolate and co- 
coa have a high food value, as shown by the following 
analysis : 

Protein Fat Carbo- Mineral Water Calories 

hydrates Matter per lb. 

Chocolate 12.5% 47.1% 26.8% 3.3% 10.3% 2720 

Breakfast Cocoa 21.6% 28.9% 37.7% 7.2% 4.6% 2320 

By reason of the high percentage of fat, chocolate is likely 
to cause indigestion when used to excess, or when taken in 
addition to an otherwise heavy meal. Cocoa, being less rich 
in fat, is free from this objection. 

The use of cocoa often makes milk acceptable when it 
would otherwise be refused. Hence this beverage is good 
in convalescence, if there are no digestive disturbances. When 
made weak, it can also be given to children in moderation. 

Principles of Cooking. Chocolate and cocoa both contain 
considerable starch, and hence should be boiled to be di- 
gestible. The cooked starch also serves to thicken the bev- 
erage somewhat, and to make it smoother and more homo- 
geneous. On account of the volatile oil to which the flavor 
is due, the cooking should be continued only long enough to 
alter the starch, otherwise the oil is lost. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 131 

TEA 

(Individual Rule.) 
1 teaspoon tea. 1 cup boiling water. 

Scald the teapot, which should be silver, crockery or granite 
ware, not tin. Put in the tea, add the freshly boiling water 
and let it infuse three to five minutes. By no means allow 
it to boil, for boiling dissipates the aroma and extracts the 
tannin. Strain into hot cup and serve with cream or milk 
and lump sugar^ or with sugar and a slice of lemon. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

Heat cup, fill three-fourths full of boiling water and dip in 
it two teaspoons tea (put in tea-ball or fine small strainer), 
until strong enough. Serve hot with sugar and a slice of 
lemon. 

Note. — Lemon is a good substitute for milk. The lemon 
prevents the headache and sleeplessness which the milk in 
tea causes to some persons. 

COFFEE MADE IN THE PEBCOLATEB 

Breakfast Coffee. After-Dinner Coffee. 

2 tablespoons coffee. Increase quantity of coffee to 

1 cup cold water. suit the taste. 

Prom the percolator take out the cup with its tube, fill the 
percolator with the quantity of water desired, replace cup and 
tube (covering tube with thumb), and put in the coffee, then 
put on the spreader plate and cover. Cook fifteen minutes. 

Note. — If warm or hot water is used it takes less time for 
cooking. Never use boiling water. It takes a little longer 
with the urns than with the pots. 

When heat is applied to the foot of the pot, a jet of water 
lukewarm at first, but quickly increasing in temperature as 
the pumping process goes on, is forced up through the tube, 
falls on the spreader plate ; by it, it is evenly distributed over 
the coffee, through which it percolates down into the pot 
again. This pumping continues until the water reaches the 
boiling point, when water and steam together come up 
through the tube. The coffee is thus ready to serve. 



132 BEVERAGES 

Coffee made in this way has a delicious aroma, a fine flavor 
and an absence of the bitter taste caused by boiling. Many 
can drink coffee made in this way that cannot when made 
in other ways. 

Buy coffee in the berry and grind it fresh every day, for 
ground coffee soon loses its aroma. 

BOILED COPPEE 

(To make seven cups of coflfee.) 

1 cup coffee. 6 cups boiling water. 
% egg and shell. 1 cup cold water. 

Scald coffee pot. Wash egg, beat slightly and add crushed 
shell, coffee and one-half cup cold water. Put into scalded 
coffee pot, add boiling water and let boil up three times, 
stirring down after each time (or boil five minutes) ; then 
add one-half cup cold water. Let it stand 20 minutes where 
it will keep hot but not boil. Serve in hot coffee cups with 
cream and sugar, or hot milk may be used in place of cream. 

Note. — A favorite blend of coffee is three parts Java and 
one part Mocha. 

BOILED COPFEE 

(Individual Bule.) 

2 tablespoons coflfee. % cup boiling water. 

1 egg shell or 1 teaspoon y^ cup cold water. 
egg white. 

Follow general directions for blending in preceding recipe. 
Boil three minutes and keep hot 15 minutes. 

For the Diabetic, The following varieties may be used. 
Pour coffee into a slightly beaten egg or yolk ; or one teaspoon 
butter; or heavy cream. Substitute Sweetina for sugar. 

riLTERED COEFEE 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons finely ground % cup boiling water. 

coffee. 

Place a piece of filter paper over a strainer and put the 
coffee in it. Hold the strainer over a hot coffee cup and pour 
the boiling water slowly over the coffee. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 133 

FILTEBED COFFEE NO. n 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons coffee. 1 cup boiling water. 

Grind the coffee very fine, put it into the upper part of 
a double coifee pot and pour the boiling water through it. 
Let it stand a few minutes on the back of the stove, where 
it will not boil. Then remove it and serve hot. 

MALTED MILK COFFEE, 59 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 tablespoon ground coffee. 

Mix the malted milk powder, coffee and water, stirring 
well. Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired. 

Or one to four teaspoons of malted milk powder may be 
put in a cup and ordinary coffee poured directly upon it, 
stirring constantly. 

CEREAL COFFEE 

(Two Cups.) 

4 tablespoons cereal coffee. % saltspoon butter. 

1 pint cold water. 

Put the cereal into coffee pot; add cold water and butter, 
when it reaches the boiling point, boil 15 minutes. Al- 
ways allow 25 minutes to make cereal coffee; 10 minutes to 
come to the boiling point and 15 minutes for the boiling 
(not violent boiling). Serve with sugar and hot milk or 
cream. 

Note. — As cereal coffee is made of browned grain, it is a 
wholesome drink, and is not stimulating. Butter is added to 
keep the coffee from boiling over, 

BREAKFAST COCOA, 957 CALORIES 

(To make six cups of cocoa.) 

3 tablespoons Walter Baker's 1 cup boiling water, 
cocoa. 3 cups scalded milk. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

^Without sugar. 



134 BEVERAGES 

Scald milk in double boiler. Put the cocoa and sugar in 
a saucepan and slowly pour on the hot water, stinging all the 
time. Boil five minutes, add the scalded milk, beat until 
foamy with Dover egg beater to prevent formation of skin. 
Serve in heated cups. One-half cup of cream is a great addi- 
tion to cocoa. 

BBEAKFAST COCOA, 197 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's % cup boiling water, 

cocoa. Yg cup scalded milk. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

Follow general directions for blending and cooking in pre- 
ceding recipe. Boiling three minutes. 

Note. — Cocoa may be served hot or ice cold, with or with- 
out whipped cream. It may be served hot, poured over the 
beaten white or yolk of egg. One-third teaspoon of brandy 
may be added if ordered by the physician. 

MALTED MILK COCOA, 83 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon Horlick's Malted % cup boiling water. 

Milk. Sugar. 

1 teaspoon cocoa. 

Mix the malted milk powder, cocoa and water, stirring well. 
Boil three minutes. Add sugar if desired and serve hot. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 1220 CALORIES 

(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. l^ tablespoon cornstarch. 

2 ounces Walter Baker's choco- 3 tablespoons sugar, 
late. Speck salt. 

2 tablespoons boiling water. 

Mix the cornstarch with one-fourth cup of the milk. Put 
remainder of milk in double boiler to heat. When the milk 
is scalded, stir in the cornstarch and cook ten minutes. 
Scrape the chocolate and put it in a small saucepan; add 
sugar and water and place the saucepan over hot water. Stir 

* Without sugar. 



MISCELLANEOUS BEVERAGES 135 

constantly until the mixture is smooth and glossy. Add the 
hot milk and beat the mixture with egg beater until frothy; 
or it may be poured back and forth from the boiler to a 
pitcher, holding high the vessel from which it is poured. 
This will give a thick froth. Serve at once. 

Note. — If you prefer not to thicken the chocolate, omit 
the cornstarch. 

Whipped cream may be served with chocolate, or it may 
be poured onto the beaten yolk of egg. 

If desired, flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla. 

PLAIN CHOCOLATE, 305 CALORIES 

(Individual Hule.) 

1 cup milk. ^ tablespoon cornstarch. 

^^ ounce chocolate. % tablespoon sugar. 

Following directions for blending and cooking in preced- 
ing recipe. 

CHOCOLATE, YIEKHA STYLE, 1427 CALOBIES 

(Eight Cups.) 

1 quart milk. 3 tablespoons boiling water. 
4 ounces Walter Baker's vanilla 1 tablespoon sugar. 

chocolate. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Scrape chocolate and put 
sugar and water into a small saucepan; heat over hot water, 
stirring till smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into the 
hot milk and beat well with an egg beater. Serve at once, 
putting a tablespoon of whipped cream in each cup, and 
filling with the chocolate. 

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla, 
but in that case use one teaspoon vanilla and three generous 
tablespoons sugar. 

CHOCOLATE MILK SHAKE, 295 CALORIES 

(Individual Hule.) 

2 tablespoons chopped ice. ^^ cup milk. 

2 tablespoons chocolate syrup, ^ cup soda water or Apollinaris 

3 tablespoons whipped cream. water. 



136 BEVERAGES 

Shake or stir well before drinking. A tablespoon of 
vanilla ice-cream is a desirable addition. It is a delicious 
drink, even if the soda or Apollinaris water be omitted. 

A plainer drink is made by combining the syrup, three- 
fourths cup milk and the ice, and shaking well. 

« 

CHOCOLATE SYBUF — USED IN PBECEDIHG, 2093 CALORIES 

(One Tablespoon = 65 Calories.) 

1 ounce (3 tablespoons) Walter 1 tablespoon vanilla. 

Baker's soluble chocolate. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Put chocolate in a saucepan and add the water gradually, 
stirring all the time. Add sugar and stir till it begins to 
boil; boil three minutes, strain, cool and add one tablespoon 
vanilla. Bottle, and keep in a cold place. 

SPECIAL NON-NTJTEITIVE BEVEBAOES 

FLAXSEED TEA 

1 tablespoon whole flaxseed. Juice 1 lemon. 

2 cups cold water. Sugar. 

Wash flaxseed thoroughly, put it with the cold water in a 
saucepan, simmer one hour, add lemon juice and sugar to 
taste and strain. 

Note. — If too thick, add hot water. 

Valuable in case of inflammation of the mucous membrane. 

CINNAMON WATER 
1 ounce stick cinnamon. 1 pint boiling water. 

Boil together fifteen minutes. Strain. Serve hot or cold. 

Note. — Good in bowel trouble. The pure cinnamon is 
quite different from the coarse bark usually sold for cinna- 
mon, which is really only cassia. 

PLAZSEED AND LICORICE TEA 

1 ounce flaxseed. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 drachms licorice root* 



NON-NUTRITIVE BEVERAGES 137 

Pour the boiling water over whole flaxseed and bruised 
licorice-root, cover and cook very slowly for four hours. 
Strain. 

LUCE WATEB 

1 tablespoon of slaked lime. 1 quart boiled or distilled water. 

Put the lime and water in a corked bottle and shake thor- 
oughly two or three times during the first hour. The lime 
should then be allowed to settle, and after twenty-four hours 
the upper clear fluid carefully poured or siphoned off into 
a glass-stoppered bottle. Keep tightly corked, as it absorbs 
carbon dioxide from the air. Keep in a cool place. 

BBAHTEA 

. % cup wheat bran. Egg shell. 

2 cups cold water. Molasses, lemon juice. 

Boil the water and bran twenty minutes, and settle it with 
an egg shell or a little cold water. Sweeten with molasses^ 
and lemon juice can be used if desired. 

SUFFEBY ELH TEA 

2 teaspoons slippery elm pow- Sugar. 

der or piece of the bark. Lemon juice. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pour the water upon the slippery-elm powder or bark. 
When cool, strain and flavor with lemon juice and sugar. 
This is soothing in case of inflammation of the mucous mem- 
brane. 

HEBB TEA 

Pour one cup of boiling water over two tablespoons of 
herbs. Cover the bowl, set it over the tea-kettle and steep 
ten minutes. Sweeten if desired. 

OIHGEB TEA 

Mix one tablespoon of molasses with one-half teaspoon of 
ginger; pour on gradually one-half cup boiling water, and 
boil one minute. Add one-half cup milk and when thor- 
oughly heated, serve. 



CHAPTER IX 
ANIUAL FOODS 

The important foods derived from the animal kingdom are 

— Meat — Poultry and Game — Fish — Shell Fish — Egga 

— Milk and Milk Products — Sweetbreads — Gelatin — Beef 
Preparations — Meat Broth and Jellies. 

Composition. Milk is the only animal food in which all 
the nutrients are represented in forms and proportions suit- 
able to supply all the needs of the body. It is properly called 
a " complete f ood.^^ Eggs, also often called '' complete f ood/^ 
contain both body-building and fuel food-stuflfs, but are in- 
complete in the sense that the amount of carbohydrate is so 
small as to be almost negligible. 

Meats are valuable primarily as sources of protein. When 
fat is present they are also useful for fuel. 

Meat extracts are chiefly valuable for their flavor and stim- 
ulating properties. 

The Proteins of animal foods are of many forms, con- 
spicuous among which are albumin of egg-white; myosin of 
muscle; casein of milk; fibrin of blood; nucleo-protein of 
liver and sweetbreads; collagen of connective tissue. 

The Fats are chiefly mixtures of stearin, palmitin and olein 
in varying proportions; small amounts of esters of volatile 
fatty acids; and compounds of fats with phosphorus in the 
form of lecithin and related substances. 

Extractives. Nitrogenous extractives are found chiefly in 
meat, to which they help to give the characteristic flavor and 
the stimulating properties. They consist chiefly of purins 
(adenine, guanine, xanthine, hypoxanthine and uric acid) ; 
and creatin and creatinin. 

Carbohydrates. The carbohydrates are represented mainly 

138 



ANIMAL FOODS 139 

by lactose in milk, and glycogen in shellfish. As a rule, carbo- 
hydrates are negligible in animal foods. 

Water. Water is present in all animal foods. Some ex- 
amples, showing the varying proportions in different kinds, 
are given in the following table : 

Oyster solids 88% 

Milk 87% 

Eggs 73% 

Lean beef 76% 

Salt cod 50% 

Mineral Matter. Milk and eggs are more valuable for their 
ash constituents than any other animal foods. Calcium, iron 
and phosphorus especially, are here found in most available 
forms. 

Meats are not particularly useful in this respect. They 
are deficient in calcium, and while they contain considerable 
iron, it is not in as useful a form as that in eggs. Most of 
the ash constituents found in the body are, however, repre- 
sented in flesh foods. 

Digestibility. As a class, animal foods are easy of diges- 
tion. They contain little indigestible residue, and the nu- 
trients are very perfectly absorbed. Prepared for the table, 
they are more concentrated than most vegetable foods. Hence 
animal foods are frequently chosen for invalids and con- 
valescents, regardless of their high protein content. 

Disadvantage of a Purely Animal Diet. The chief dis- 
advantages of a purely animal diet are that it does not afford 
sufficient bulk to maintain the proper functioning of the 
alimentary tract, owing to the lack of indigestible residue; 
and that it loads the body with an excess of nitrogenous ma- 
terial, which . is not only unnecessary for repair, but may 
cause harm if not speedily eliminated. Furthermore, pro- 
tein raises the metabolism so that more food is actually re- 
quired than if carbohydrates and fats are used as fuel. For 
further discussion of the relative merits of animal and veg- 
etable diets, see page 233. 



• 



140 ANIMAL FOODS 



lEEAT 



The term meat includes the flesh of all animals used for 
food, as beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, poultry, game. Lean 
meat is almost a pure protein food. 

Composition of Meat: 

1. Muscle fibers, composed of proteins, extractives, in- 

organic salts, and water. 

The principal protein is albumin. Muscle al- 
bumin is often called myosin. 

The extractives are largely nitrogenous. 

The mineral constituents in greatest abundance are 
phosphates and potash salts. 

2. Connective tissue which binds together the muscle fibers, 

this consisting chiefly of a protein called collagen, 
which yields gelatin on boiling. 

3. Fat interspersed between the fibers. 

Nutritive Value. Meat is rich in nitrogenous elements and 
fats, and contains important salts, chiefly potassium and iron. 
It is easily cooked and improves in flavor during the process ; 
requires less mastication and is more easily digested and as- 
similated than most vegetable food. 

Meat is lacking in carbohydrates, and unless a large amount 
of fat is present, is to be regarded as a source of nitrogen 
rather than of energy. Since protein burns up faster thaii 
other foods, and very little of the nitrogen can be retained in 
the body, it is most advantageously used in small amounts 
along with plenty of fats and carbohydrates. 

The most important food element in meat is the myosin or 
muscle albumin. The collagen belongs to a group of proteins 
often called gelatinoids or albuminoids, because, unlike the 
albumins, they cannot sustain life alone. They are able, 
however, to replace other proteins to the extent of two-thirds 
of the ordinary nitrogen requirement. In young animals, the 
connective tissue is soft, and the tissues are easily masticated ; 
but in older animals it becomes very firm, is hard to chew 



MEAT 141 

and often escapes digestion unless softened or changed to 
gelatin by cooking. 

The nitrogenous extractives have no nutritive value, and 
in fact, represent products either of waste (katabolism) or of 
insuflBcient oxidation. Unless promptly excreted, they may 
cause an excess of uric acid or other disorders. However, 
they bestow upon cooked meat its characteristic flavor and 
odor; in the stomach, act as stimulants to the secretion of 
gastric juice; and exert on the nervous system a stimulating 
influence similar to that of tea and coffee. 

Digesiibility of Meat Meat is easily digested, the degree 
of ease depending upon the following conditions: (1) The 
age of the animal when killed, with the exception of veal, the 
flesh of the young animal is more easily digested, but less 
nutritious than that of the older one; (2) the time the animal 
is kept before cooking; (3) the sex; (4) the care bestowed on 
the animal during life; (5) the quantity of fat. Lean meat 
is more easily digested than fat meat. 

Absorption of Meat. Meat is very readily absorbed and 
leaves little residue in the intestines ; only 3 per cent, of meat 
taken is lost in the process of digestion. 

Uncooked Meat. Ordinary raw meat is not quite as easily 
digested as cooked meat. Owing to color and flavor, it is not 
appetizing and could not be taken continuously. However, 
when chopped fine or scraped free from connective tissue, so 
as to be easily attacked by the digestive juices, it is more 
readily digested than cooked meat. 

Effect of •Cooking Meat. Proper cooking makes meat more 
digestible, as it softens the connective tissues, thus causing a 
separation of the muscular fibers, and enabling the digestive 
juices to act more advantageously. The color and flavor are 
improved. There is a loss of weight by evaporation of water, 
and loss of mineral matter and some extractives. The loss of 
water concentrates the nutrients, and thus renders cooked 
meat proportionally more nutritious than raw meat. 



142 ANIMAL FOODS 

Objective Points and Methods in Cooking: 

1. To retain the juice as in baking, broiling, boiling and 
frying. 

2. To extract the juice as in soups, 

3. To extract and retain the juice as in stews. 

The Principal Constituent of meat to be considered in cook- 
ing is the albumin. Note page 11, for albumin. 

Cooking of Meat. Heat penetrates meat slowly. At a tem- 
perature of 158 degrees Fahrenheit, the meat assumes a gray 
color, as a result of the decomposition of the coloring matter 
of the blood. At the same time a peculiar odor of cooking 
develops, which is due to chemical changes produced by the 
heat. 

At a temperature above 104 degrees Fahrenheit, meat be- 
gins to lose weight from the separation of water, which con- 
tains salts and nitrogenous extractives. This process contin- 
ues as the temperature rises, except that coagulable proteins 
no longer separate with the water. 

Coagulation of the albumin is an important factor in cook- 
ing meat, and the degree varies with the mode of cooking. 

As broiling is the preferred way of preparing meat for the 
sick and convalescent, it is taken up in detail in this chapter. 

Broiling. In broiling, the meat is to be cooked in its own 
juices ; it is, therefore, evident that these must be retained as 
completely as possible. At first the temperature should be 
sufficiently high quickly to coagulate, and even harden the 
albumin on the outside surface, so as to form a layer or pro- 
tecting coat over the whole ; then the heat should be modified 
so that the interior will be raised to a temperature that will 
cook it properly without loss of its nutritive properties. 

In broiling we partially sacrifice the outer layer of the 
meat, to preserve the inner portion. 

The time for exposure will be different for different kinds 
of meat. Beef and mutton require a shorter time than lamb, 
chicken or game. 

A piece of meat properly broiled swells, and when cut, the 



MEAT 143 

liquid portion flows out readily; but if cooked too long the 
albumin inside coagulates and the meat loses its moisture, 
shrinks, and becomes tough. 

Effect of Cold and Hot Water on Meat, Cold water draws 
out the soluble albumin, the extractives and some of the salts ; 
thus in soups, broths and stews where all the nutriment pos- 
sible is desired in the liquid, the meat is first put into cold 
water and gradually brought to a higher temperature. 

Hot water or dry heat coagulates albumin, and since if 
subjected to too high a temperature this becomes tough and 
indigestible, we must note carefully the proper temperature of 
cooking. Often it is necessary to sacrifice a small amount 
of albumin by exposing the meat to a high temperature for 
a short time to form a coating on the meat, in order to re- 
tain the rest of the juices more effectively, after which the 
connective tissue can be softened by gentle simmering for 
several hours. 

The Quality of Meat depends upon the age, sex, environ- 
ment, care, feeding and time of hanging after slaughtering. 
It also depends greatly on the cuts used. 

The tougher and less expensive cuts, if properly cooked, 
are as nutritious and as easily digested as the expensive cuts; 
however, tough meats take long, slow cooking to make them 
palatable, and the fuel used must be taken into consideration 
in the expense. Tough meats are muscles which the animal 
uses the most, as the legs (especially the lower part),' neck, 
etc.; they are more highly flavored on account of the freer 
circulation of blood through these portions. Cuts from the 
neck and shin are used for soups and broths. 

The tenderer and more expensive cuts are from the muscles 
which the animal uses the least, as the upper portion of the 
hind quarter (rump, sirloin) and fore ribs. The circulation 
of blood through these portions is less and they are not as 
juicy and well flavored, nor any more nutritious than tougher 
portions. These tenderer cuts are used for steaks and roasts. 

The remaining muscular portions of the animal (flank, 
shoulder and brisket) are not as tender as the upper portion 



144 ANIMAL FOODS 

of the hind quarter, but just as nutritious. They need longer 
cooking and are used for stews, braising and pot roast. 

Internal Organs or Animal Viscera used as food are the 
heart, tongue, brain, kidneys, liver, pancreas, thymus glands 
and paunch. Although some are as easily digested as most 
muscle tissue, they are not as nutritious, and most of them 
produce large quantities of uric acid. 

The heart, liver and kidneys, when properly cooked, are 
not as easily digested as other meats, on account of their close 
and firm texture, and should be eaten only by those of good 
digestive powers. 

The tongue is not very easily digested, for although the 
lean meat is tender, the fat is hard, and tends to retard diges- 
tion in the stomach. 

The brain is the most rapidly digested of meats, but a 
very high per cent, is of no use to the body. It is not suited 
for invalid diet on account of the high fat content. 

The paunch is the third stomach of the ox and called tripe. 
When properly cooked it is easily digested, but contains too 
much fat to give an invalid. 

The pancreas and thymus glands of the calf or lamb are 
sold under the name of sweetbreads. They are most easily 
digested, but give rise to uric acid. Note chapter on Sweet- 
breads. 

Beef. Beef, is without doubt, the most valuable kind of 
meat; it is nutritious, of excellent flavor, and comparatively 
easy of digestion. 

Test for Good Beef. The flesh is firm and fine grained in 
texture ; bright red in color when first cut and upon exposure 
to air ; looks juicy and well-mottled and coated with fat, and 
the fat is of yellowish color and firm. 

The best beef is obtained from the steer of four to six years 
of age. After killing, the animal should hang for two to 
three weeks. 

Veal. The flesh of the calf is difiicult of digestion and 
should only be used in the sick room for making broth. It 
should never be eaten by those of weak digestion. It con* 



MEAT ' 145 

tains less albuminous substances, and more gelatin than 
beef. 

Test for Oood Veal. It should be of a pinkish color, with 
clear, firm, white fat, fine grained and tender. The cut most 
used for broth and soup is the lower part of the leg known 
as the knuckle. 

Hutton. Next to beef, mutton is considered the most 
nutritious of meats, and by some considered as easily digested ; 
but it is known that fat of mutton, which consists largely of 
stearin, is not as easily digested. 

The best quality of mutton comes from a sheep from three 
to five years old; after killing it should be allowed to hang 
to ripen and to develop the flavor. 

Test for Good Mutton. The flesh is flne grained, bright 
pink in color, the fat is white, hard and flaky, and the skin 
comes off easily. The bones of mutton are white and smooth 
and round at the joints. 

Lamb. Lamb of the right age is as nutritious as beef or 
mutton but the flesh is milder in flavor. 

Lamb is sold as ^^ spring lamb '' when killed at six weeks to 
three months old. It is very expensive and comes into the 
market early in the year — February and March. Lamb is 
usually killed when a year old, and should be sold imme- 
diately after killing; in this respect it differs from beef and 
mutton, which should hang after killing to ripen and develop 
the flavor. 

Test for Lamb. Lamb can be distinguished from mutton 
by the pinkish color of the bone, and the serrated joints. 

Fork. The flesh of the pig is the most indigestible of 
all meats on account of the large percentage of fat which it 
contains, consequently it is not used in cookery for the sick, 
except sometimes a small amount of ham, salt pork or bacon^ 
as the salty taste occasionally acts as a stimulant to the lost 
appetite of the convalescent. Ham and bacon are more easily 
digested than other cuts of pork, and when thin strips of 
bacon are cooked crisp they are easily digested. Bacon is 
from the flank of pork and is salted and smoked. Next to 



146 



ANIMAL FOODS 



butter and cream, bacon fat is the most easily assimilated of 
ordinary food fats* 

Cuts of Meat. * The methods of cutting sides of beef, veal, 
mutton, and pork into parts, and the terms used for the diflEer- 
ent "cuts,^* as these parts are commonly called, vary in 
different localities. The diagrams show the positions of the 
different cuts, both in the live animal and in the dressed car- 
cass, as found in the markets. The lines of division between 
the different cuts will vary slightly, according to the usage of 
the local market, even where the general method of cutting 
is as here indicated. The names of the same cuts likewise 
vary in different parts of the country. 

Cuts of Beef 





Fig. 6 

Fig. 5. — Diagrams of cuts of beef: 1, Neckj 2, chuck; 3, ribs; 4, sboul- 
•der-clod; 5, fore-shank; 6, brisket; 7, cross-ribs; 8, plate; 9, navel; 10, 
loin; 11, flank; 12, rump; 13, round; 14, second-cut round; 15, hind-shank. 
— (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office of Experiment Stations, 
United States Department of Agriculture.) Send for Bulletin for cuts of 
Teal and Pork. 



^This section is quoted from Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, Office 
•of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. 0. 



MEAT 147 

The general method of cutting np a side of beef is illus- 
trated in Fig. 5, which shows the relative position of the cuts 
in the animal and in a dressed side. The neck piece is fre- 
quently cut so as to include more of the chuck than is repre- 
sented by the diagrams. The shoulder-clod is usually cut 
without bone, while the shoulder (not included in diagram) 
would include more or less of the shoulder blade and of the 
upper end of the fore-shank. Shoulder steak is cut from the 
chuck. In many localities the plate is made to include all 
the parts of the fore-quarter designated on the diagrams as 
brisket, cross-ribs, plate, and navel, and different portions of 
the plate, as thus cut, are spoken of as the " brisket end of 
plate " and " navel end of plate." This part of the animal is 
largely used for corning. The ribs are frequently divided 
into first, second, and third cuts, the latter lying nearest the 
chuck and being slightly less desirable than the former. The 
chuck is sometimes sub-divided in a similar manner, the third 
cut of the chuck being nearest the neck. The names applied 
to different portions of the loin vary considerably in different 
localities. The part nearest the ribs is frequently called 
" small end of loin " or " short steak." The other end of the 
loin is called *^ hip sirloin " or " sirloin." Between the short 
steak and the sirloin is a portion quite generally called the 
" tenderloin," for the reason that the real tenderloin, the 
very tender strip of meat lying inside the loin, is found most 
fully developed in this cut. Porterhouse steak is a term most 
frequently applied either to the short steak or the tenderloin. 
It is not uncommon to find the flank cut so as to include more 
of the loin than is indicated in the figures, in which case the 
upper portion is called " flank steak." The larger part of the 
flank is, however, very frequently corned, as is also the case 
with the rump. In some markets the rump is cut so as to 
include a portion of the loin, which is then sold as " rump 
steak." The portion of the round on the inside of the leg 
is regarded as more tender than that on the outside, and is 
frequently preferred to the latter. As the leg lies upon the 
butcher's table, this inside of the round is usually on the 



148 



ANIMAL FOODS 



upper or top side, and is therefore called " top round." Occa- 
sionally the plate is called the " rattle/' 

Cuts of Lamb and Hutton 




Fig. 7 

Fig. 7.— Diagrams of cuts of lamb and mutton: 1, Neck; 2, chuck; 8, 
shoulder; 4, flank; 5, loin; 6, leg. — (Atwater and Bryant, Bulletin No. 28, 
OfiBce of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agriculture.) 

Fig. 7 shows the relative position of the cuts in a dressed 
side of mutton or lamb and in a live animal. The cuts in a 
side of lamb and mutton number but six, three in each quar- 
ter. The chuck includes the ribs as far as the end of the 
shoulder blades, beyond which comes the loin. The flank is 
made to include all the under side of the animal. Some 
butchers, however, make a large number of cuts in the fore- 
quarter, including a portion of the cuts marked " loin *' and 
^^ chuck '^ in Fig. 7, to make a cut designated as " rib,^' and 
a portion of the " flank ^' and " shoulder*' to make a cut 
designated as "brisket.** The term "chops** is ordinarily 
used to designate portions of either the loin, ribs, chuck or 
shoulder, which are either cut or " chopped ** by the butcher 
into pieces suitable for frying or boiling. The chuck and ribs 
are sometimes called the " rack.** 



MEAT 149 

ENEBGY VALUE OF HEAT 

See Table, under names of meat, as Beef — Mutton — 
Lamb — Bacon — Ham, etc. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

TO BROIL STEAK 

Wipe, trim off the superfluous fat and remove a little of 
the bone. Save the flank ends for broiled meat cakes. Heat 
and grease the broiler with some of the fat. Place meat in 
broiler with fat edge next to handle and broil over a clear 
fire, turning every ten seconds for the first minute, holding 
broiler near the coals that the surface may be well seared, 
thus preventing escape of juices ; then cook at lower tempera- 
ture, holding the broiler higher. 

Steak cut one inch thick will take five minutes if liked 
rare, and eight minutes if well done; one and one-half inch 
thick, eight to ten minutes. Serve on a hot platter and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper, or with Maitre d'Hotel But- 
ter. 

Note. — Steak should be cut at least one inch thick ; many 
prefer it much thicker. The most tender steaks are tender- 
loin, sirloin and cross-cut of rump. Sirloin, porterhouse (a 
thick slice of sirloin with tenderloin attached), cross-cut of 
the rump and top of the round are all good steaks. The top 
of round is solid meat and a cheap steak; is tender if cut 
from animal of right age and is the second or third cut from 
top of round. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL BUTTER, 443 CALORIES 

^ cup butter. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Yg teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

14 saltspoon pepper. 

Bub the butter to a cream; add salt, pepper, parsley and 
lemon juice. Spread on hot beefsteak. 

PAN-BROILED BEEF CAKES 

Use steak from upper part of round, and with a small piece 
of suet put all through a meat chopper; without seasoning, 



150 ANIMAL FOODS 

shape into small, flat, circular cakes. Into 8aut6 pan put a 
little beef fat, when smoking hot, put in the cakes and cook 
a few moments on each side and turn; it will take about iive 
minutes to cook them. Season well with salt, pepper and 
butter, and serve on hot platter. Do not add salt before cook- 
ing, as it toughens the meat. 

SCBAPED BEEF 

See " Beef Preparations ^* for recipe. Page 217. 

HTITTOK CHOPS BBOILEBi 

Cut away the tough outside skin, trim off a part of the 
fat. Broil same as steak — that is, close to the glowing coals 
— for about one minute, turning every ten seconds, then cook 
at a lower temperature, holding the broiler higher. Will take 
four or six minutes for a chop one inch thick. Mutton, like 
beef, should be served rare. Season chops with salt and 
pepper, but not with butter, as the meat is rich and fat and 
does not require it. 

LAMB CHOPS BBOILEBI 

Prepare and broil same as for mutton chops, except that 
they are to be well done instead of rare, to accomplish this 
about three minutes longer cooking will be required; for a 
chop one inch thick, from eight to ten minutes. 

FBENCH CHOPS 1 

Trim a chop until there is nothing left but the round 
muscle at the thick end, with a little fat about it. Cut away 
all the meat from the bone, which will then look like a handle 
with a meat morsel at one end. Broil, and serve on hot 
platter with paper handles on chops, and garnished with pars- 
ley and peas. 

PAK-BBOILEB CHOPS i 

Chops are fairly good pan-broiled. The same principle is 
to be followed as in the cooking over coals — that is, a high 
degree of heat at first, to sear the outside before the juice 

^ Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gms. 



MEAT 151 

escapes, and a lower temperature afterward — therefore, heat 
the saute pan or spider exceedingly hot (use no fat), drop in 
the chop, count ten and turn, repeating for about one minute^ 
then draw the pan to the back or side of the stove and finish 
cooking slowly. A chop one inch thick will be perfectly done 
in from five to seven minutes. If the pan is hot enough at 
first there will be no loss of juice or flavor. Season and serve 
in the same manner as broiled chops. 

CHOPS (OB BIEDS) BROILED IK PAPER i 

Prepare a chop as for pan-broiling. Spread a piece of 
paper evenly and thickly with butter. Lay on it a nicely 
trimmed chop and double the paper with edges together. 
Fold and crease the edges on the three sides, then fold and 
crease again, so that the butter cannot run out. These folds 
should be half-an-inch wide. It will be necessary to have 
the sheet of paper — foolscap or heavy white paper — consid- 
erably more than twice as large as the chop. Broil over coals, 
not too near, turning often so that the temperature will not 
get so high as to ignite the paper. A chop broiled in this way 
is basted in the butter and in its own juices, and is very deli- 
cate. A chop three-quarters of an inch thick will cook in five 
minutes ; one an inch thick, in eight. 

Should the paper ignite, it need not destroy the chop* 
Take it out and put into a fresh paper and try again. The 
chop should be served hot, seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Note. — Birds may be broiled in the same way. 

BROILED BACON 

Cut bacon in as thin slices as possible, and remove rind. 
Put in broiler, placing broiler over baking pan, and cook in 
hot oven until crisp. 

CURLED BACON 

Heat saut6 pan very hot. Put in strips of very thin sliced 
bacon. As fat is drawn out, pour it oflE into cup ; cqpk bacon 
until crisp and brown. Drain on brown paper. 

1 Chops average 300 Cal. per 100 gma. 



162 ANIMAL FOODS 

BBOILED HAM 

Cut slices of ham one-third inch thick. If very salt soak 
fifteen minutes in lukewann water ; broil three minutes or un- 
til brown on both sides, turning frequently. A slice of boiled 
ham is very delicate cooked in this same way, cooking it less 
time. 

BOAST HEATS 

Prepare meat, put on rack in dripping pan, dredge with 
salt and flour and cook in hot oven until the surface is seared, 
reduce the heat and cook slowly the required time. 

Beef, rare 13 minutes per pound. 

Beef, rare (over 5 lbs.),. 18 minutes per pound. 

GBAVY FOB BOAST MEATS 

1 tablespoon fat. 1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

Pour fat from baking pan and return to pan the quantity 
desired. Add flour and when well browned pour on gradually 
the boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook five minutes, 
season with salt and pepper, and strain. 

FOTJLTBT AND OAHE^ 

Poultry and game are generally classed together, poultry 
being applied to domesticated birds raised for their flesh or 
eggs or both. Wild birds are all classed as game. 

Digestibility. Chicken may be introduced early into the 
dietary of the convalescent, for it is one of the most easily 
digestisd of meats. Chicken is more easily digested than 
fowl, but is not as nutritious. The white meat of the breast 
is particularly free from fat, has short fibers and small amount 
of connective tissues, and is easier to digest than the dark 
meat. 

Squab, quail, pigeons and the white meat of turkey are also 
easily digested. 

Duck and goose contain a large quantity of fat and are not 
as easily digested. 

*Por further information, note "Poultry as Pood." Farmer's Bulletin, 
No. 182, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. 0. 



POULTRY AND GAME 153 

Game is comparatively easy of digestion but too highly 
flavored for most invalids. The cuts from the breast are 
the best for an invalid. 

Test for Selecting a Chicken. The cartilage at the end of 
the breast bone must be soft and pliable^ the skin smooth 
and the feet soft. There should be an abundance of pin 
feathers. Chickens are used for broiling and roasting. 

Test for Selecting a Fowl. The cartilage at end of the 
breast bone is firm, the feet are hard and dry. The pin feath- 
ers are largely replaced with long hair. An old fowl, not too 
fat, is best for broths. One from one to two years is best for 
roasting, or where the meat substance is desired. The propor- 
tion of bone to meat in chicken under this age makes them 
expensive eating. 

Principles of Cookifig. In general same as for cooking of 
other meats. 

When the layer of meat over the bones is very thin, as in 
young chickens or squabs, broiling is preferable- to roasting. 

An old fowl can sometimes be made tender without having 
all its flavor stewed. into the broth, by cooking in a small 
amount of water in a double boiler for a long time, or in a 
fireless cooker. 

A general rule for roasting chickens or turkeys is twenty 
minutes to the pound. Ducks and geese, having tougher 
fibers, require a longer time for thorough cooking. 

GENEBAL BTTLE FOB CLEANING POTTLTBY 

Cut ofiE head and feet and pull out pin feathers. If the 
bird has not been drawn, make an incision below the breast 
just large enough to admit the hand (or finger for the small 
birds). With the hand or finger, draw all the entrails out at 
one time. Care must be taken not to break them, especially 
the gall-bladder. Turn down the skin of the neck, cut off 
neck close to body and pull out wind pipe and crop. Cut 
out the oil bag. Cut through skin of the leg a little below the 
joint (not cutting the tendons), press against table and break 
and pull off foot with tendons, which will come out in break- 



154 ANIMAL FOODS 

ing if chicken is young. In fowls you may have to pull them 
out separately with skewer. Singe the bird by holding it 
over a tablespoon of burning alcohol, or paper (holding over 
sink). Wash by allowing the cold water to run through and 
over it, and dry well inside and out and prepare further for 
broiling or roasting, etc. 

DRY DBESSIKG FOB STTTFirNG, 1100 CALORIES 

^Vz cup stale bread crumbs. Powdered sage, marjoram, and 

1/3 cup butter (not melted). summer savory. 

Salt, pepper. 

Thoroughly mix ingredients and season to taste. Fill in 
both openings of bird and sew the skin at both ends, and turn 
the skin of neck over, and fasten to back. Oysters can be 
added to dressing if desired, omitting all seasonings but the 
salt and pepper. 

TO TRUSS POTTITRY 

After stuflSng and sewing up the openings, draws the thighs 
close to body and secure in place by putting a skewer through 
them and the body. Fold wings under back by taking end 
of wing and place in under back which fastens it. Cross the 
drum-sticks and tie with long string and fasten to the tail, 
and tie string so that it will hold thighs close to the body. 
Cut and remove string before serving the bird. 

ROAST POULTRY 

100 grams = about 200 Calories.i 

Clean, stuff and truss bird and place it on its back on 
rack in dripping pan. Eub surface with salt and a butter and 
flour mixture (mix three tablespoons of butter and two table- 
spoons of flour and stir until creamy). Dredge bottom of 
pan with flour. Place in hot oven and in about ten minutes 
the flour should be well browned, then reduce heat of oven and 
cook more slowly. Baste every ten minutes with one-fourth 
cup of butter melted in three-fourths cup of water, after this 

1 Edible portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 155 

has been exhausted use fat in pan. Turn bird often while 
cooking that it may brown evenly. When cooked^ remove to 
hot platter and make the gravy. 

A chicken four to five pounds will require about one and 
one-half to two hours for cooking. Turkey, nine pounds, two 
and one-half to three hours. Ducks (domestic), one to one 
and one-half hours. Duck (wild), twenty-five to thirty min- 
utes. Goose, nine pounds, two to two hours and one-half. 

GRAVY FOB BOAST POVLTBY 

Clean the heart, liver and gizzard by removing the mem- 
brane, blood vessels and clotted blood from the heart. Cut 
liver from the gall bladder and remove all green on liver. 
Clean gizzard and cut through edge carefully to sac, and re- 
move carefully not to break it, wash giblets (that is, the 
heart, liver, gizzard) and the neck and put on to cook in two 
and one-half cups of cold water, cook slowly at the simmering 
point until tender. 

After chicken has been removed from pan, pour off all the 
fat, strain and return to pan four tablespoons of fat and add 
four tablespoons of flour, brown together thoroughly, and add 
gradually the water the giblets were cooked in. Cook five 
minutes, stirring constantly, add hot water if gravy is too 
thick, and salt and pepper to taste, and the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

TO BONE BIBDS 

Select bird that is fresh-killed, dry-picked, and not drawn. 
Cut off head and feet, singe and remove pin feathers, crop, and 
oil bag. Cut off wings close to body. Lay on board breast 
down and cut to bone the entire length of spine. Scrape the 
flesh from backbone the entire length of body, working toward 
the breast, cutting the tendinous portions as reached. When 
edge of breastbone is reached, care must be taken not to break 
through skin. Scrape flesh from second joint and drum- 
sticks, laying flesh back and pulling out bone (as if turning 
glove off inside out). 

Scrape flesh from lower part of back and withdraw from 



156 ANIMAL FOODS 

carcass. Put flesh in original shape and broil, following 
directions for broiled quail; or stuff bird with stale bread 
crumbs and tie in shape with string and bake in hot oven. 
When cooked, remove bread and tie in shape with a bit of 
white baby ribbon and garnish with parsley and lemon. 

BROILED aUAIL 

100 grams = 160 Calories. 

Clean, cut off the head and feet, singe, and wipe with a 
damp cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife split the quail down 
the back, beginning at back of neck and cutting through the 
backbone the entire length of bird. Lay bird open and re- 
move contents. Cut through tendons at joints. Wipe thor- 
oughly. Season with salt and pepper, rub thickly with soft-r 
ened butter and dredge with flour. Broil ten minutes over 
clear coals. Serve on hot buttered toast. Garnish with toast 
points, parsley and currant jelly. 

BROILED SaUABS 

100 grams = 390 Calories. ,< 

Prepare, cooTc and serve the same as quail. 

BROILED SHALL BIRDS 

All small birds can be broiled according to the directions 
for qtiail, remembering that for very small ones it takes a very 
bright fire, as the birds should only be browned and the time 
required for cooking is brief. 

BIRDS BROILED IN PAPER 

•I 

See chapter on Meats and follow directions for ^^ Chops 
Broiled in Paper.^' Page 151. 

BROILED CHICKEN 

100 grams =a 108 Calories.i 

Dress for broiling, following directions given under Broiled 
Quail. Season well with salt and pepper, and rub all over 
with softened butter, especially breast and legs. Put in a 
well-greased broiler and broil over a clear fire about fifteen 

> Edible portion. 



POULTRY AND GAME 157 

minutes, turning often. The flesh side must be exposed to 
the fire the greater part of the time as the skin side burns 
easily. When chicken is nicely browned, place in a dripping- 
pan, skin side down, in a moderate oven twelve minutes. Put 
on a hot dish, season with salt, pepper and butter, and serve 
immediately. 

This rule is for a chicken weighing about two and a half 
pounds, yielding 725 calories. 

CBEAXED CHICKEN, 210 CAL0BIE8 1 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ cup cold cooked chicken. 14 tablespoon butter. 

Speck celery salt. % tablespoon flour. 

Salt. y^ cup rich milk. 

Pepper. 

Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and pour on gradually 
the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly. Add chicken cut into 
dice, and seasonings. Heat well and serve on toast rounds, 
garnished with toast points and parsley; or use as a filling 
for Swedish timbales. 

Note. — Chicken may be used that is removed from chicken 
broth when it is tender. Chicken broth may replace part of 
the milk in making the sauce. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN 

Put creamed chicken into a small baking dish, cover with 
dried bread or cracker crumbs, dot with small pieces of but- 
ter, and brown in oven. 

JELLIED CHICXEK, 100 CALOBIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin. % cup chopped chicken. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt, celery salt. 
8 tablespoons strong chicken 

broth. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water five minutes, and add the 
boiling hot broth, stir until dissolved. Season to taste. Dip 

^ Calculated with 1 % ounce of fowl, 
s About 100 calories. 



158 ANIMAL FOODS 

mold into cold water and pour in enough gelatin to cover 
bottom, put in ice box to harden, when firm decorate with a 
slice of hard-cooked egg; or cook a couple slices of carrots 
and cut a small round from one slice to form the center of 
a daisy and cut the other slice into strips to represent the 
petals and put in bottom of mold, add a few drops of 
gelatin to keep the decoration in place, and put on ice to 
harden. Mix the chicken with remainder of gelatin and pour 
into mold and set to harden. Serve on leaf of lettuce or 
garnish with parsley. 

LARDED GROUSE 

Clean and wash the grouse. Lard the breast and legs. 
Eun a small skewer through the legs and tail. Tie firmly 
with twine. Dredge with salt, rub the breast with softened 
butter, then dredge with flour. Put into a quick oven. If 
desired rare, cook twenty minutes; if well done, thirty min- 
utes. Serve on hot platter garnished with parsley and Bread 
Sauce. 

LARDED QJJAIL 

100 grams = 160 Calories. 

The directions for cooking and serving are the same as for 
grouse, except that quail cook in fifteen minutes. Larding 
gives richness to dry meat that does not have fat enough of 
its own. 

BREAD SAirCE FOR 6AHE, 540 CALORIES 

Crumbs 
y^ cup coarse dried bread crumbs. % small onion. 
% tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Sanoe 

1 cup milk. Salt. 

14 cup fine bread crumbs. Pepper. 

Prepare Crumbs. Dry in a warm oven; sift. Cook the 
coarse bread crumbs in the butter until a delicate brown, and 
use to cover breast of bird. 

Prepare Sauce. Put the fine bread crumbs, milk and 



FISH 



159 



onion on to scald ten minutes, then skim out the onion, add 
the butter and seasoning, and serve as a gravy for birds. 

FISH 

Fish, is one of the important protein foods. The term is 
usually applied to all kinds of water animals used for food. 
They may be classified as follows : 



Classes 





White or lean, e. g. - 


'Halibut 
Haddock 
Flounder 
Turbot 
White Fish 
Smelt 


'1. Scaly or Vertebrate, 




Cod 




Dark or oily, e. g. - 


Salmon 
Mackerel 
Blue Fish 
Shad 




Herring 
Eel 




fMoUusks, e. g. |9f ^*«'* 
® Clams 

V. 


.2. Shell-fish ^ 


Crustaceans, e. g. « 


'Crabs 
Lobsters 
Shrimps 
Turtles 
.Terrapin 



In the white-fleshed fish the fat is found principally in 
the liver. This is the only class usually considered in the 
'COokery for the sick. 

In the dark-fleshed fish the fat is found distributed through- 
out the body. A considerable amount of the protein of fish 
is in the form of gelatin. Fish is less rich in extractives, and 
hence less stimulating than meat. 

Digestibility, The digestibility of scaly fish depends upon 
the quantity of fat present and the coarseness of the fiber. 



160 ANIMAL FOODS 

The white-fleshed fish are less nutritious and stimulating than 
the dark-fleshed fish as they contain less fat and extractives 
and more water. They are consequently more easily digested. 
With the exception of cod, white fish is useful for a con- 
valescent diet, for those of sedentary habits, for children, and 
others for whom the stimulating extractives of meat' are not 
desirable. 

Oily fish should not be eaten by those of weak digestion 
or given to the sick. In some cases they may be served dur- 
ing advanced convalescence. 

Salt fish is not as easily digested as fresh fish, as the fibers 
are apt to be hardened in the process of salting. Salt codfish 
is an exception, for if finely divided and served in an ap- 
petizing manner it is a valuable and inexpensive form of 
protein food. As a rule, dried, smoked or pickled fish should 
not be given to the sick. 

By some persons, fish cannot be eaten without causing in- 
digestion or biliousness. A complete diet of fish is said to 
cause an affection of the skin. The fat sometimes disagrees, 
causing acidity and eructations of the stomach. 

Composition. In composition fish is similar to meat, con- 
taining proteins, extractives, fats, salts and water. As a rule, 
fish contains more water and less fat than meat, therefore it 
is more easily digested ; and it is due to this, its easy digesti- 
bility, that white fish by some is considered a brain food, and 
not, as is popularly supposed, to the amount of phosphorus it 
contains; in fact, fish does not contain as much phosphorus 
as some meat. Fish contains less extractives than meat and 
it is due to this that people tire more quickly of it than of 
meat. 

Lemon juice and vinegar are desirable condiments to serve 
with fish. The acid is a desirable neutralizing agency, as the 
juice of fish, especially shellfish, is of an alkaline nature. 

Nutritive Value. The chief nutritive constituents of fish, 
as of meat, are their proteins and fats. Their energy value 
depends largely on the amount of fat they contain. 



FISH 161 

When Fish are in Season. Halibut, haddock, flounder and 
cod, are in season all the year. 

Turbot, October to May; shad, February to May; salmon. 
May to September; blue fish and mackerel, May to October; 
sturgeon, April to September; trout (lake), April to August. 

Test for Freshness. In fresh fish the gills are red, the eyes 
bright and protruding, the flesh is flrm and there is no un- 
pleasant odor. The flrst two tests disappear after the fish 
has been out of water a short time, and although the flavor of 
the fish is not as good, it is not spoiled. But if the last two 
tests are not present the fish should not be used. Great care 
should be taken that fish is perfectly fresh, in season, and 
thoroughly cooked, or it will be indigestible and sometimes 
poisonous. Unless these conditions are known to exist, fish 
should not be served to the sick. 

" In many European cities fish are sold alive, the customer 
selecting his fish as it swims in a tank. It would seem that 
this excellent method might be used in our cities, especially 
those situated on the seaboard, at least for customers who are 
fastidious and who are willing to pay an extra price for 
a special article when it is warranted.^^ (Farmer's Bulletin 
No. 375.) 

Principles to te Observed in CooJcing Fish. As in meat, 
albumin is the principal constituent to be considered in the 
cooking of fish. Hence the same principles which apply to 
the cooking of meat apply also to the cooking of fish. 

See page 11, for effect of heat on albumin. 

Objective Points and Methods: 

To Retain the Juice. — Baking, Broiling, Boiling and Fry- 
ing. 

To Extract the Juice. — Soup. 

To Extract and Retain the Juice. — Chowder. 

ENERGY YALTTE OF FISH 

See Table, under names of fish, as Halibut, Salmon, etc. 
See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 



163 ANIMAL FOODS 

BROILED FISH 

White fish, trout, small blue fish, mackerel, shad and small 
cod should be split down the back, and broiled whole, and if 
preferred, cut off the head and tail. Halibut and salmon 
should be cut into inch slices and turned often while broil- 

Clean Fish. Wipe with a cloth wet in salt-water, and dry 
on a fish towel. Season; oily fish need only salt and pepper, 
but dry white fish should be spread with butter and salt and 
pepper before broiling. Use a double wire broiler greased 
well with salt pork rind. Put thickest edge of fish next 
middle of broiler, turn often while broiling; with split fish 
sear the flesh side first and then turn. 

The time of cooking will vary with the thickness of fish. 
Fish is done when fiesh separates easily from the bone. 

The fire should be hot and clear. When ready to serve, 
loosen the fish from broiler on each side. Open broiler, slide 
fish onto platter, having flesh side uppermost. Spread with 
butter, salt and pepper. Garnish with parsley and slices of 
lemon. Or serve with Butter Cream and a border of potato 
balls. 

Note " Fish Sauces '^ for Butter Cream. 

BAKED FISH 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet in salted water, dry on a 
fish towel and bake on a greased fish sheet, placed in a drip- 
ping pan. A strip of cotton cloth, by which it may be lifted 
from the pan, may be substituted for the fish sheet. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, brush over with melted butter, dredge 
with fiour, and place around fish small pieces of fat salt pork. 
Bake in hot oven until fish separates from bone when lifted 
with fork. Baste every ten minutes. Serve plain with 
melted butter, or with Egg Sauce. 

Note ** Fish Sauces '* for Egg Sauce. 



FISH 163 

HALIBUT 1 LA C&SOLE, 413 CALORIES 

% pound halibut. 1 clove. 

^ cup tomatoes. ^ teaspoon sugar. 

y^ cup water. % tablespoon butter. 

Small piece onion. % tablespoon flour. 

Sprig parsley. Salt and pepper. 

Tomato Sauce. Blend tomatoes, water, onion, parsley, 
clove and sugar, and cook ten minutes. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
hot mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste, cook five minutes, 
and strain. 

Clean fish. Wipe with cloth wet with cold salted water 
and dry thoroughly. Put in baking tin, pour around half 
the sauce and bake until fish separates easily from bone,, 
basting often. Serve on hot platter, pour around it the re* 
mainder of the sauce and garnish with parsley. 

GBEAMEB FISH 

(Individual Kule.) 

% cup cooked, fish, remove skin % cup cream or white saucd 
and bone, and flake the flesh (note Fish Sauces), 
with a fork; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little lemon 
juice. 

Blend the fish and white sauce, reheat and serve on toast, 
garnish with parsley and half -slice of lemon; or serve in 
bread cases made of slices of bread cut two inches thick, 
round off edges, scoop out center, leaving case, brush with 
softened butter and brown in oven. 

Note. — White sauce may be poured on one ^gg yolk before 

adding fish. 

SCALLOPED FISH 

Put creamed fish into small baking dish, cover with dried 
bread or cracker crumbs; dot with bits of butter and brown 
in oven. 

CREAMED CODFISH, 828 CALORIES 

Flake salt codfish in small pieces, remove the bone ; the fish 
should be put into several cold waters to remove some of the 



164 ANIMAL FOODS 

salt. Prepare the potatoes, cutting them into eighths, or if 
small into fourths, add the shredded fish and boiling water 
to cover; cook until potatoes are tender, drain off the water 
'(saving it for the Sauce), add a little butter and season with 
pepper, and mash lightly and heap in center of platter. 

Sauce 
1 pint fish and potato water. 4 tablespoons flour. 
4 tablespoons butter. Pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
potato water. Cook thoroughly, season with pepper, and 
pour about the codfish, and garnish with slices of hard-cooked 
egg and parsley. 

CREAMED CODFISH (FOK THE DIABETIC), 314 CALOKIES 

^ cup flaked codfish. ^ teaspoon Gum, Gluten flour. 

1 cup milk or cream. Yolk 1 egg. 

% teaspoon butter. Pepper. 

Soak the fish in two waters ; melt the butter, add the flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk ; cook thoroughly, add 
codfish and egg, cook five minutes, season and serve on Gum 
Gluten toast or fresh bread. 

CREAMED FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), 208 CALORIES 

Yg cup cooked fish. ^4 cup cream sauce. 

Salt, pepper, lemon juice. Gum Gluten bread crumbs. 

Season fish with salt, pepper and lemon juice, add cream 
sauce, put into ramikins or cups, sprinkle with Gum Gluten 
crumbs, and bake. 

BAKED FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC), 480 CALORIES 

For baked fish make a dressing with one cup of Gum 
Gluten bread crumbs, one-half an onion, chopped fine; one 
tablespoon celery, chopped fine, one tablespoon of butter ; pep- 
per, salt, lempn juice and parsley. 

FISH (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

Fish should be rubbed with salt and pepper and dipped in 
Gum Gluten Flour, or rolled in egg and Gum Gluten Cracker 
crumbs. Saut6 (or fry) in oil or butter. 



FISH SAUCES 165 

FISH SAUCES 

BVTTEK CREAM 

Cream a little butter; season with salt, cayenne, lemon 
juice (speck salt and pepper, one-half teaspoon lemon juice). 
Add finely minced parsley or chopped pickle, such as cucum- 
ber or olive. Prepare quantity according to size of fish. Put 
it on the fish, and place in oven a moment until butter is 
melted. 

CKEAM OK WHITE SAUCE, 125 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yg tablespoon butter. % cup hot milk. 

V2 tablespoon flour. Salt. 

Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire, and pour on 
gradually the milk, stirring constantly. Bring to the boiling 
point, cook thoroughly and season. 

Note. — Extra milk may be added if a thinner sauce is 
desired, using one-half cup milk. 

CREAM SAUCE (POR THE DIABETIC), 138 CALORIES 

% cup milk. Salt. 

1 teaspoon Gum Gluten flour. Cayenne. 
1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk ; cook thoroughly and season. 

EGG SAUCE, 434 CALORIES 

2^^ tablespoons butter. Speck pepper. 

IV2 tablespoons flour. % cup hot water. 

l^ teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

Melt one-half the butter; add flour and seasoning and 
pour on gradually the hot water. Boil five minutes and add 
remainder of butter in small pieces. Add two hard-cooked 
eggs cut into one-fourth inch slices, or the beaten yolks may 
be added to hot sauce with one-half teaspoon lemon juice. 



166 ANIMAL FOODS 

EGG SAUCE NO. U 

To Cream or White Sauce add one hard-cooked egg chopped 
fine and a little lemon juice if desired; or add to White 
Sauce, yolk slightly beaten and a few drops of lemon juice. 

TOXATO SATTCE, 80 CALORIES 

% tablespoon butter. Few grains salt. 

^ tablespoon flour. Few grains pepper. 

l^ cup strained tomato juice. 

Brown butter, add flour and stir until slightly browned; 
remove from fire and pour on gradually, stirring constantly, 
the heated tomato. Cook thoroughly and add salt and pepper. 

Note. — A sprig of parsley, one clove and a small piece of 
onion may be added to tomato while heating. 

CTTCTTHBER REUSH, 15 CALORIES 

Grate one-half cucumber and add a small piece of red pep- 
per chopped fine; season with salt, pepper and vinegar and 
serve with fish. 

HOLLANDAISE, 484 CALORIES 

1 ^gg yolk. % teaspoon salt. 

4 tablespoons butter. WMte pepper. 

y^ tablespoon vinegar. 

Put one tablespoon butter in top of double boiler, add the 
other ingredients. Place over hot water and stir constantly 
while butter is melting. Add second tablespoon of butter 
and stir until melted, repeat this process until all butter is 
used. As soon as the mixture begins to thicken remove from 
hot water. Vary by adding a little chopped parsley, grated 
liorse-radish root. 

SHELL-FISH 

OYSTERS AND CLAMS 

Only the mollusks are considered in this book, because the 
crustaceans are not easily digested, and therefore are not suit- 
able for an invalid diet. 

Oysters. Oysters are valuable food for invalids and con- 



SHELL-FISH 167 

valescents. Their nutritive value is not high, but they are 
easily digested and possess a delicate flavor which is ac« 
ceptable to most palates. 

Composition. The five food principles are represented in 
oysters. Eeckoned as " solid/* i. e., removed from the shelly 
oysters contain 88.3 per cent, of water, 6.1 per cent, protein,. 
1.4 per cent, fat, and 3.3 per cent, carbohydrate. Oysters- 
come nearer to milk than almost any other common food 
material, both in amount and proportion of nutritive prin- 
ciples. 

The carbohydrate is in the form of glycogen, being found 
in the liver, which constitutes a large proportion of the oyster. 

Digestibility. The soft part of the oyster or clam is made 
up largely of the stomach and liver and is easily digested 
when cooked in a variety of ways — broiling, roasting, stew- 
ing, panning and steaming — but not fried when served to 
the sick. 

The hard part of shellfish is the muscle which fastens the 
animal to the shell, and is rendered tougher by all forms of 
cooking; therefore, when whole oysters are to be eaten, they 
are more easily digested when served raw or broiled slightly 
in the shell. They can be digested by fever patients and 
those suffering from many forms of gastric disorders. 

It is desirable in acute illness to serve only the soft part 
of the oyster, but in the later stages of convalescence the 
whole oyster can be served raw or in stew and soups, which 
are recommended on account of their liquid form and warmth. 

When in Season. Oysters are in season from September to 
May. During the rest of the year they are insipid and unfit 
for food. 

Principles to be Carefully Observed in Serving and Cooh'^ 
ing Oysters for the Sick, (a) Make every effort to have the 
oyster alive when used, or as fresh as can be obtained from 
a reliable dealer. Many serious cases of illness and even 
death have been caused by eating oysters so long dead that 
poisonous substances had formed in them. Great care should 
also be taken that oysters are not procured from beds where 



168 ANIMAL FOODS 

the water has been contaminated in any way. " As it is in 
general impossible to learn their origin the rule of never eat- 
ing them in the raw state is adopted by many. The practice 
of fattening or * floating' oysters in fresh or in brackish 
water robs them of much of their fine flavor, and since the 
most accessible supply of such water is at the outlet of 
streams, and as such streams are frequently polluted by sew- 
age, many persons believe that this practice should be for- 
bidden by law.^^ ^ 

(b) Oysters contain an albuminous substance which in- 
creases in hardness with an increase of temperature, just as 
the albumin of an egg does. When oysters are cooked with 
reference to this albuminous substance, they are also cooked 
in the best possible manner with reference to their other con- 
stituents; therefore subject them to a low temperature, for 
a short time, bearing in mind that 160 to 180 degrees Fahren- 
heit is the cooking temperature of albumin. 

General rule is to remove the oyster from heat as soon 
as the body grows plump and the edges curl, if cooked be- 
yond this stage they are over-cooked. 

Varieties. In New York State the "Blue Points" are 
considered the finest for serving raw. They come originally 
from Blue Point, Long Island. 

In Massachusetts the " Cove '^ Oyster is considered the fin- 
est for serving raw. They come from a still water cove near 
Plymouth. 

Clams. Clams are similar in composition to the oyster 
and same general rules followed in preparing and serving. 
They are much used for food and considered a great delicacy. 
They contain a tough portion that is not used in sick-room 
cookery, but the clear juice, on account of its digestibility 
and stimulating properties, is invaluable in the sick room. 
Clams are in season all the year around. 

Varieties, There are two varieties, the hard and soft shell 
clams. The hard shell are known as quahaugs. The small 

1 Farmer's Bulletin No. 375. 



OYSTERS 169 

or round " little neck clams '^ take the place of Blue Points 
to serve raw when oysters are out of season. 

ENERGY VALUE OF OYSTERS 

2 oysters ^14 Calories. 

100 grams oysters =50 Calories. 

1 cup (solid) oysters =84 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

RAW OYSTERS 

Wash, scrub the shells well under a stream of water with 
a vegetable brush. With a hammer break the thin edges of 
the shell so that a knife may be inserted to sever the muscle 
which holds the two parts of the shell together ; when this is 
cut remove the upper half and wipe the edges free from any 
grains of sand. Then sever the muscle which joins the oyster 
to the other shell, so that it may be easily lifted out without 
the necessity of cutting. Arrange six oysters on an oyster- 
plate on crushed ice, and serve with salt, black pepper and 
lemon juice. A quarter of lemon cut lengthwise may be 
placed in the center of plate, and bit of parsley. 

OYSTERS ROASTED IK THE SHELL 

Wash the shells very carefully with a brush. Put them 
in a wire broiler over glowing coals, the round side of shell 
down so as to hold the juice. Cook them quickly, turning 
once or twice until the shell opens. They may also be cooked 
in a hot oven. When done remove the upper half of the shell ; 
season them quickly with salt, pepper and a tiny bit of but- 
ter and vinegar, if liked, and serve them while very hot. 

The true oyster flavor is delightfully developed by pre- 
paring in this way. They may also be served with melted 
butter, salt, pepper and lemon juice. 

TO WASH OYSTERS 

Place oysters in strainer over a bowl and pour one table- 
spoon of water over each one-half cup of oysters. Take each 
oyster up in fingers and remove any particle of shell that may 
adhere to tough muscle. 



170 ANIMAL FOODS 

PAN ROAST OYSTERS 

Wash oysters and put in saut6 pan or chafing dish and 
gently stir with spoon. When bodies grow plump and the 
edges curl remove from heat. Season with salt and pepper 
and a little butter and serve on rounds of toast, with eighth 
of lemon for individual dishes; or serve on platter and 
garnish with toast points, watercress and lemon. 

BROILED OYSTERS, 320 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

4 oysters. 4 teaspoons butter. 

l^ cup cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper. 

Select large oysters. Wash, drain and dry between towels. 
Melt butter. Season cracker crumbs with salt and pepper. 
With silver fork lift each oyster by tough muscle, and dip 
first in butter, then in crumbs. Place on a buttered fine wire 
broiler and broil, turning often until brown and the juice be- 
gins to flow. Serve plain, garnished with parsley and a piece 
of lemon or prepare cream toast and sprinkle with fine 
chopped celery, and place the broiled oysters on top. 

CREAMED OYSTERS, 284 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

8 oysters. % cup rich milk or thin cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. Salt. 

ll^ tablespoon flour. White pepper. 

Wash, drain and dry oyster between towels. Melt butter 
and remove from fire, add the flour and pour on gradually the 
scalded milk. Season with salt and pepper. Cook thor- 
oughly. Add the oysters and heat until the edges curl and 
the bodies grow plump. Serve at once on rounds of toast 
and garnish with toast points and parsley or in crisped " bread 
cases.'' See " Creamed Fish.'' 

CREAMED OYSTERS NO. U, 340 CALORIES 2 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup thin cream or rich milk. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 8 oysters. 

% teaspoon salt. 

^ Calculated with whole milk. 
'Calculated with thin cream. 



OYSTERS 171 

Wet the flour with a little cold milk ; scald the cream, add 
the flour and cook well. Just before serving add the drained 
oysters and cook until they grow plump and the edges curl ; 
add the salt and butter. * Serve in Swedish timbale shells, lit- 
tle scooped-out buns, or on rounds of toast. 

SCALLOPED OYSTEBS, 365 CALORIES 

^(Individual Rule.) 

% cup oysters. Salt. 

^4 cup cracker crumbs. Pepper. 

% cup stale bread crumbs. ^^ tablespoon cream. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. 1 tablespoon oyster liquor. 

Prepare the oysters. Stir together crumbs and melted but- 
ter. Butter a small baking dish and sprinkle part of the 
crumbs in it. Put in half the oysters, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, then a layer of crumbs, pour over enough cream 
or oyster liquor to moisten well, add the remaining oysters, 
season, and finish with a layer of crumbs on top. Bake in a 
hot oven about ten minutes, till oysters are plump and crumbs 
browned. Serve hot. 

Never allow more than two layers as they will not cook 
evenly. A sprinkling of mace or nutmeg is considered an 
improvement by some. Sherry wine may be used in place 
of cream. 

OYSTER SOUP, 252 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup oysters. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup water. % tablespoon flour. 

^ cup milk. Grating of mace. 

Bit of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the scalded milk ; add mace and onion, and cook 
thoroughly. 

Put oysters in a strainer placed over a bowl, add water and 
carefully pick over oysters to remove particles of shell. Heat 
liquor which has drained from oysters to the boiling point, 
strain through two thicknesses of cheese-cloth and return to 



172 ANIMAL FOODS 

saucepan, add oysters and cook until plump and edges curL 
Drain off liquor and add to soup. Season, add oysters and 
serve immediately. 

OYSTER SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 107 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 
One-half pint of oysters, heated in their own liquor ; strain. 
Put in saucepan one-half teaspoonful butter and a scant half- 
teaspoonful of Gum Gluten Flour, add liquor, and, when 
slightly thick, oysters, pepper and salt. For variety, add 
occasionally a tablespoonful of cream. 

OYSTER STEW, 205 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup oysters. y^ teaspoon salt. 

% cup milk. Speck pepper. 

% tablespoon water ^^ tablespoon butter. 

Scald the milk. Put oysters in a strainer placed over a 
bowl, and add water. Carefully pick over oysters to remove 
particles of shell. Heat the liquor which has drained from 
the oysters to the boiling point, and strain through the finest 
strainer and cheese-cloth, return to saucepan and put in the 
oysters and simmer, but do not hoil, until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl and separate. Strain the liquor 
into the scalded milk, season, add oysters and serve imme- 
diately. 

CLAMS 

ENERGY VALUE OF CLAMS 

Yg dozen clams =40 Calories. 

31/3 ounces clam bouillon = 2 Calories. 

1 quart clam bouillon =23 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

LITTLE NECK CLAMS 

Serve raw on the half -shell in same manner as raw oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS 

For steaming, clams should be bought in the shell. Wash 
in several waters, scrubbing thoroughly. Put into kettle. 



CLAMS 173 

allowing one-fourth ciip water to one quart clams. Cover 
closely and steam until clams partially open. Care should 
be taken not to overcook them. Serve with melted butter. A 
few drops of lemon juice may be added to butter. 

CLAM BROTH 
(Individual Rule.) 
1 dozen clams. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

Wash clams and scrub with a brush, changing the water 
several times. Put in saucepan, add water, cover, and cook 
until shells open. Bemove clams from shell, adding liquor 
which comes from them, to liquor already in saucepan. 
Strain liquor through double thickness of cheese-cloth. Serve 
hot, cold, or frozen. 

CLAM WATEB 
(Individual Rule.) 
% cup cold water. Clam Broth. 

To the water add the required amount of the clam broth 
to make the strength desired. Serve hot, cold, or frozen. 
When necessary, serve in small quantity and repeat at short 
intervals. 

Note. — Clam broth served in the several ways (as a 
variety) is invaluable in case of weak stomach, indigestion 
and general debility. 

CLAM WATEB NO. H, 17 CALOKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup Clam Broth. Pepper. 

1 tablespoon milk. % teaspoon butter. 

% cup hot water. 

Blend the clam broth, milk and hot water, season with 
pepper and add the butter. Serve hot. 

Note. — The pepper and butter may be omitted when neces- 
sary. 



174 ANIMAL FOODS 

CLAH STEW, 250 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup clam broth. % teaspoon salt. 

% cup scalded milk. Speck pepper. 

1 tablespoon butter. Soft part of 1 dozen clams. 

% tablespoon flour. 

Melt butter, add flour, add gradually the scalded milk and 
clam broth, and cook thoroughly. Season, add clams and 
serve hot. 

CLAM SOTTP, 276 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% dozen clams. % tablespoon butter. 

% cup cold water. ^4 tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt and pepper. 

Wash and scrub clams and put in kettle with cold water. 
Cook until shells open. Take from shell and cut off the 
tough parts ; save the soft parts for the soup and keep warm. 
Add the milk to the juice. Melt the butter, add the flour and 
pour on gradually the hot liquid. Cook thoroughly; season 
with salt and pepper, add soft parts of clams, and serve 
immediately and hot. 

CLAM BOUILLON, 45 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup cold water. Salt. 

^ cup clam broth. Pepper. 

% cup scalding milk. Celery sauce. 

14 teaspoon butter. White of ^gg or whipped cream. 

Blend the water and clam broth, heat to the boiling point, 
then add the scalding milk, the butter, and stir well ; season, 
with salt, pepper and celery sauce to taste. A small quan- 
tity of cracker crumbs may be added to thicken it. Serve in. 
heated bouillon cups and garnish with two teaspoons of 
whipped cream or well-beaten white of egg. 



E008 175 

CLAX BOinZXOH BISaXTE, 355 CAL0&IE8 

(Two Servings.) 

^^ tablespoon butter. V2 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 cup boiling water. 

% tablespoon chopped carrot. Yolk 1 egg. 

1 cup clam broth. % cup cream. 

Melt the butter, add the finely chopped onion and carrot, 
cover and cook until the onion and carrot are tender, stirring 
it occasionally. Add the flour, blending well; then pour on 
gradually the boiling water and the clam broth. Cook five 
minutes, strain and return to saucepan. Mix the yolk of egg 
with the cream, and add it slowly to the Bisque. Pour into 
heated bouillon cups, and serve with small oyster crackers. 

ALBUMINIZED CLAM WATER 

See " Albuminized Beverages " for recipe. Page 123. 

CLAM BROTH NO. n 

See " Meat Broth and Jellies '^ for recipe. Page 220. 

CLAM BROTH ON TOAST 

See " Toast " for recipe. Page 258. 

CLAM ERAPPE 

See " Ices " for recipe. Page 315. 

CLAM SHERBET 

See " Sherbets " for recipe. Page 312. 

EGOS ' 

Many kinds of eggs are eaten, but hens' eggs are the only 
ones necessary of consideration as a staple article of diet. 
The shell constitutes about 1.1 per cent, of the weight of the 
whole egg, the yolk 32 per cent., and the white 57 per cent. 

Composition, Eggs are albuminous in nature and con- 
sist practically of the following substances — protein, water, 
fat and mineral matter. The composition of the hen's egg is 
as follows: 

* For further information, note "Eggs and Their Uses as Food.** Farm- 
«r'8 Bulletin No. 128, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



176 ANIMAL FOODS 

Fuel value 
Refuse Water Protein Fat Ash per pound 

calories 

Whole egg as purchased... 12.2% 65.5% 11.9% 9.8% 0.9% 635 

Whole egg, edible portion. . 73.7% 13.4% 10.5% 1.0% 720 

White 77 86.2% 12.3% 0.2% 0.6% 250 

Yolk 49.5% 15.7% 88.8% 1.1% 1705 

From this table it may be seen that the white of egg con- 
sists of eight-tenths water, the remaining portion being prin- 
cipally protein (albumin), with a little mineral matter, etc., 
the yolk is about half water, one-third fat, and nearly one- 
sixth protein, with almost twice as much mineral matter as 
the white. 

Varieties. By eggs the product of the domestic fowl are 
commonly meant. The eggs of the duck, goose, turkey, etc., 
are edible, but are hardly suited for the sick, because of their 
stronger flavor. The purely white eggs are usually selected 
for the invalid, but many regard the brown-shelled egg as the 
more delicate. 

Digestibility, Eggs are easily digested and very thoroughly 
absorbed in the intestines. If the absorption is delayed, de- 
composition follows with production of sulphuretted hydrogen 
and ammonia, which causes considerable gastro-enteric disturb- 
ance. The yolk is usually the cause of this disturbance. The 
digestibility of an egg depends upon its freshness and the 
manner in which it is cooked. ^ Carelessness in cooking and 
serving may make an egg difficult of digestion and un- 
appetizing, when, if it is cooked properly, it would be more 
palatable and easy of digestion. A raw egg, on account of its 
blandness, does not stimulate the flow of gastric juice and is 
not as easily digested as a soft-cooked egg; but by heating a 
raw egg the albumin is finely divided and is more quickly 
acted upon by gastric juice, consequently is digested about 
as quickly as a soft-cooked egg. Eaw eggs are added to 
various foods, as milk and broth, etc., to give extra nutriment. 
Eggs are freely prescribed for those suffering from loss of 
flesh and strength, as the convalescent, anaemic, or in tubercu- 

^See Albumin, p. 11. 



EQQ8 177 

losis; in such cases as many as twelve eggs being given in as 
many hours. 

A soft-cooked egg digests very quickly. 

A medium-cooked egg is not as easily digested as either 
the raw, soft or hard-cooked, and should not be served cooked 
in this manner to the sick. 

A hard-cooked egg as conmionly cooked is diflBcult to di- 
gest, but cooked at proper temperature and chopped very fine 
will digest about as quickly as a soft-cooked egg. 

Nutritive Value. Eggs are a very nutritious food, com- 
parable with meat, milk, cheese, and other animal foods, both 
as regards total food material and the total protein and fat 
furnished by them. At twenty-five cents per dozen they are 
commonly considered very expensive, but this must not be 
interpreted too literally. Many persons will be satisfied with 
an egg who would not be with the equivalent food value in 
the form of meat, and eggs are valuable for giving variety 
to the diet and for furnishing an easily digested protein food, 
especially for the sedentary. For children they are much 
better than meat, because the fat is in an emulsified, and 
hence easily digested form, and because of their ash con- 
stituents. The yolk is rich in compounds of iron, phosphorus, 
calcium, magnesium. The protein of egg yolk is combined 
with lecithin, a phosphorized fat which has come to be re- 
garded as an important constituent of food, especially for the 
growing animal. Egg yolks are frequently prescribed for 
invalids requiring an easily assimilated, concentrated food. 
It should be remembered that when fat is barred from the 
diet, egg yolk should not be given. 

Egg white is valuable chiefiy as a source of protein. Be^ 
cause of its mild flavor it can be combined with many sub- 
stances, especially milk and other beverages (See /* Al- 
buminous Beverages,'^ page 118), to increase the nutritive 
value of a liquid or semi-solid diet. 

With some persons, eggs induce constipation, or have a 
slight aphrodisiac effect. They contain sulphur, and unless 
digested before decomposition occurs in the alimentary tract. 



178 ANIMAL FOODS 

give rise to hydrogen sulphide gas. They should not be eaten 
by those suffering from flatulent dyspepsia, gastric dilatation, 
or any severe gastric derangement. They are contraindicated 
in acute Bright's disease. 

Principles to be Observed in CooJcing. The principal con- 
stituent of the egg is albumin, which should be cooked in 
such a manner as to require the least possible expenditure of 
force in digestion. Those who are ill cannot afford to waste 
energy, and whether they are forced to do so or not depends 
much upon those who prepare their food. 

Effect of Temperature on Albumin. See *^ Albumin/^ page 
11. 

The proper cooking temperature of egg albumin is 160 to 
180 degree Fahrenheit, when it is found to be tender, soft, 
jelly-like, and in an easily digested state. 

But cooked at the boiling point of water, 212 degrees 
Fahrenheit, albumin is found to be firm, compact, tough and 
indigestible. With this knowledge we can appreciate the 
necessity of cooking eggs at a temperature below that of boil- 
ing water. It is often advisable to cook the white and yolk 
of eggs separately, as the yolk when hard cooked (at proper 
-temperature) and mealy is more easily digested than the 
soft cooked yolk, and the white more easily digested soft 
cooked. 

Suggestions, Eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Always wash eggs just before using. Save the shell for mak- 
ing boiled coffee, as the shells of three eggs is as effective in 
settling coffee as one whole egg. When using several eggs 
break them separately in a saucer to test the quality of each. 

In beating fresh eggs to a stiff froth the albumin entraps 
ihe air, forming bubbles which expand and stiffen when ex- 
posed to heat and blended with batter and dough, thus mak- 
ing the food light and spongy. Stale eggs lose this quality 
of frothiness. 

Test for Fresh Eggs, (1) The shell of a fresh egg is 
slightly rough ; held to the ear and shake slightly there should 
be little sound, held in front of electric light or candle in 



E0Q8 179 

a dark room if they look more transparent in center they are 
fresh, if more transparent at ends, are stale. 

(2) In a solution made of two ounces of common salt and 
one pint of water, an ^gg one day old will sink (not quite 
reach the bottom) ; three days old will barely float above the 
surface, and seven days old will float above the surface. This 
is due to the loss of water and to the development of gases of 
putrefaction. Unless air is excluded from eggs they very 
quickly deteriorate in value and decompose. 

The water in the egg evaporates through the shell, which, 
is porous, and air rushes in to take its place, causing decompo* 
sition of the organic matter of the egg, the result being the 
formation of various gases — principally sulphuretted hydro* 
gen, due to the action of putrefactive bacteria which enter 
the shell with air. Eggs eaten in this state may cause gastric 
and intestinal disorders, therefore, unless eggs are perfectly 
fresh, they should not be given to a child or a person of 
delicate digestion or the sick. 

ENERGY VALUE OF AH EGG 

1 average egg =60 Calories. 

1 average white of egg ==13 Calories. 

1 average yolk of egg =48 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients^ 

SOFT COOKED EGGS 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of boiling 
water to cover; remove to back of stove, or where the water 
will keep very hot, but not boil. Cook seven to ten minutes,, 
according to consistency desired. Serve in slightly heated 
cups. 

Note. — A stone crock is nice to use, as it keeps more even 
heat. A double boiler may be used, putting boiling water 
in top and bottom, set on back of stove and cook six to seven, 
minutes, according to size of egg. 

Care must be taken that the size of utensil is in accordance 
with the number of eggs to be cooked, so that the cold eggs 



180 ANIMAL FOODS 

irill lower the temperature of the boiling water. Keep tem- 
perature about 160 degree Fahrenheit, or a little above. 

SOPT COOKED EGGS NO. H 

Wash one egg and put it in a small saucepan of cold water 
to cover. Bring just to boiling point, remove and serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

HARD COOKED EGGS 

Follow directions for soft cooked eggs No. I, allowing egg 
io remain in water forty-five minutes. Chop fine and add 
one-half teaspoon butter and a 'few grains salt, serve in 
slightly heated cups. 

STEAHED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer or a small sauce-plate and pour in 
ihe egga. Salt, place in . steamer over boiling water, and 
cook till white is firm. Cooked in this manner, the white is 
tender and light and can be eaten by invalids. 

BAKED EGGS 

Plain baked eggs make a pretty breakfast dish. Take a 
deep earthen plate, butter it and break in the eggs, adding 
salt, pepper, bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the white is set. Garnish with curled parsley and serve with 
huttered toast. Use a small dish to prepare one egg. 

Note. — Before cooking % tablespoon of cream to each 
€gg may be poured over them, and in serving a little grated 
cheese may be sifted over the top. 

BAKED EGGS (EOB THE DIABETIC) 

Break an egg into a baking-cup, pour gently over it a large 
tablespocnful of melted butter sauce; then add a thick layer 
of grated cheese ; sprinkle with Gum Gluten cracker crumbs, 
and dot with bits of butter. Bake until the egg is set, and 
serve at once. 



E008 181 

GOLDEH-BOD EOaS 

1 hard-cooked ^gg = 60 Calories. 2 slices toast = 146 Calories. 

Sauce = 170 Calories. 

2 teaspoons butter. Speck white pepper. 
' 14 tablespoon flour. Salt. 

^ cup scalded milk. 

Prepare the sauce. Add the white of egg chopped fine, 
pour over the toast and rub the yolk through a strainer over 
the top. Serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalded 
milk ; cook well and season with salt and pepper. 

EGG NESTS; 142 CALORIES 
< 1 egg, 1 round of^ toast with toast 

y^ teaspoon butter. points. 

Salt to taste. 

Toast bread. Separate egg. Beat white to a stifiE froth. 
Salt to taste. Spread toast with butter and put white of egg 
on in shape of nest. Make a depression in center, put in the 
butter and drop the yolk in the hollow. Cook in a moderate 
oven three or four minutes. 

Note. — May be cooked in tumbler placed in pan of water, 
allowing the water to heat gradually, and as the white rises, 
make a depression and drop in yolk. 

It may be served with Tomato Sauce. 

rOAKY OMELET, 144 CALORIES 

1 egg, % saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon milk. Speck pepper. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Separate egg and beat white to a stiff froth. Beat yolk 
till light, add milk, salt and pepper; lightly fold the yolk 
into the white. Put butter into saut6 pan, when it bubbles 
pour in the mixture. Gently shake pan so omelet will not 
adhere to it ; lift up at sides with a knife to see when done, 
and when a delicate brown set pan in oven a minute to 
absorb moisture on top. Fold omelet half over, turn on a 
hot dish, and serve immediately. 



182 ANIMAL FOODS 

Variations. Mix one tablespoon ham, or any meat, 
chopped fine, with foamy omelet, and cook as directed. Or 
when omelet is cooked, the chopped meat may be spread over 
before folding. A little chopped parsley may be added. Oys- 
ters either whole or chopped, or creamed chicken, stewed or 
sliced tomatoes, asparagus tips, peas or jelly may be used. 

BAKED MEAT OMELET 

Prepare Foamy Omelet and add to it the chopped meat. 
Put it into a buttered pudding-dish, set it in a pan of hot 
water and bake until firm. 

BREAD OMELET, 164 CALORIES 

2 tablespoons bread crumbs. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons milk. 1 egg. 

Speck salt. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Soak bread crumbs in the cold milk for ten minutes, add 
the salt and pepper. Separate egg and beat until light. Add 
the crumbs and milk to the yolk and fold in the white. Fol- 
low general directions as for Foamy Omelet. 

POACHED OR DROPPED EGOS 

Toast a square or round piece of bread and four toast 
points ; put on hot plate with points at each side and garnish 
^ith a sprig of parsley. Have a shallow. pan two-thirds full 
of boiling salted water, allowing one teaspoon salt to one pint 
wrater. Put a slightly buttered muffin ring on a buttered 
skimmer in the water. Break an egg into the ring. The 
-water should cover the egg. When there is a film on top and 
the white is firm, carefully take up skimmer, remove ring, 
loosen egg with a knife and place on the toast ; salt slightly. 
The toast may be buttered if desired. 

EGG POACHED IN HILK, 470 CALORIES 

1 egg. Salt. 

iVa teaspoons butter. 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 

i^ cup thin cream. 

Melt butter in top of double boiler, add cream and when 
hot drop in carefully the egg. Cook until white is nearly 



EGGS 183 

firm, add salt and sprinkle with cheese. Serve on toast* 
Cheese may be omitted. 

CODDLED OB SCBAXBLED EGGS, 180 CALORIES 

1 egg. 1 saltspoon salt. 

Yz cup milk. Speck pepper. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Beat egg in top of double boiler until light, add milk and 
rest of ingredients and stir over boiling water until it thick* 
ens; allow it to stand a few minutes without stirring, to set^ 
Serve on toast or hot rice. 

EGG SANDWICHES, 96 CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg. % teaspoon mustard. 

^^ teaspoon salt. 3 drops vinegar. 

Speck paprika. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Mince the egg very fine with a silver fork, add seasonings 
and butter, and mix thoroughly. Butter very thin slices of 
bread, spread with egg mixture, cover it with watercress 
leaves, or bits of nasturtium leaves, or lettuce. Cover with 
another slice of bread, and cut in triangles or rounds. Serve 
on small plate and doily. 

Note. — Minced ham may be added to egg mixture. 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer, ramikins, or small earthen cups; 
put one egg in each without breaking yolk ; dust with salt and 
white pepper, put in pan of hot water and cook on back of 
range or in a moderate oven until white is set. If baked,, 
cover with a buttered paper to keep from browning. 

SHIRRED EGGS NO. II 

Butter small, deep earthen dishes and line with fine white 
bread crumbs moistened to a paste, and seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Break an egg in each, sprinkle with a few grain* 
of salt, cover with more paste and bake in a pan of hot water,, 
placed in the oven. When egg is set, serve with two table- 
spoons of tomatoes or cream sauce poured over it, and garnish, 
with a sprig of parsley. 



184 ANIMAL FOODS 

TILLED EGGS, 96 CALORIES 

1 hard-cooked egg, ^ teaspoon mustard. 

1 teaspoon butter or Paprika. 

1 teaspoon olive oil. Salt. 

Eemove the shell and cut the egg in halves lengthwise. 
Take out the yolk carefully without breaking the white. Eub 
the yolk to a smooth paste, adding the butter or oil and the 
seasonings, and mix thoroughly. A small quantity of finely 
chopped ham, tongue or chicken may be added. Fill the 
whites with the mixture and serve on lettuce, or in a bed of 
parsley. 

EGG DESSERTS 

See " Nutritious Desserts " for recipe. Page 286. 

ALBmaNOUS DRINKS 

See "Albuminous Drinks ^^ for recipe. Page 118. 

MILE AND MILE PBODTTCTS' 

Milk is the only substance in nature designed expressly for 
the nourishment of the young animal. It contains all the 
compounds necessary to support life, in remarkably good pro- 
portions and in very assimilable forms. It is a perfect food 
for infants, and is specially suited to the needs of certain 
classes of invalids and sedentary persons. For the active 
adult it is undesirable as the sole article of diet, because the 
proportion of water is so high that large quantities have to 
be taken to supply the necessary energy ; because the propor- 
tion of protein is unnecessarily high ; and because it furnishes 
no indigestible residues to supply bulk for the perfect func- 
tioning of the intestines. 

Composition. Milk contains the five food principles, the 
proportions varying somewhat with different species, and also 
with individuals of the same species. Cow's milk, which is 
most extensively used, is the only kind which will be con- 
sidered here. Milk has a specific gravity of 1.027 to 1.035. 

iPor further information, note "The Use of Milk as Food,** Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 363, U. S. DeiJt. of Agriculture, Washington, D. 0. 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 185 

The chief bulk is water, which averages 87 per cent. The 
solid matter is made up of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The average percentages are as follows: 
Protein, 3.3 per cent.; fat, 4 per cent.-; carbohydrates, 5 per 
cent; mineral matter, 0.7 per cent. 

The principal protein is casein, a compound containing 
both phosphorus and sulphur. Casein is precipitated (or 
coagulated) by the addition of acid or in neutral solutions, 
by rennet Milk also contains lactalbumin, arranging about 
1/7 of the total protein. The character of the curd depends 
largely on the relative proportions of casein and lactalbumin. 

The fat of milk varies widely in amount. It is found 
throughout the milk in globules, i. e., as an emulsion. On 
standing, the fat rises to the top and forms cream chemically. 
Several fats are present, chiefly stearin, palmitin and olein, 
with smaller amounts of others, which give the characteristic 
flavor to butter. The chief carbohydrate is lactose or milk 
sugar. This remains in the whey when the casein and fat 
are removed. 

The ash constituents are mainly phosphates and chlorides 
of calcium, sodium and potassium. 

Digestibility. WTiile milk is taken as a liquid, it should 
really be regarded as a solid food, for in the stomach it is 
coagulated by the action of the enzyme rennin in the gastric 
juice. If the milk is swallowed hastily, a large, tenacious 
curd may form, which will remain long in the stomach, and 
the milk will be regarded as difficult of digestion. If the 
milk is sipped slowly — or eaten with a spoon — the curds will 
be small, and hence readily acted on by the gastric juice. 
For this reason, the combination of milk with another food 
material, as bread or cereal gruel, may render it more easily 
digestible. Many persons think that they cannot digest milk. 
This is seldom true, if the above precautions are taken. 

Nutritive Value. Milk is a high protein food. In infancy 
it therefore furnishes the nitrogen necessary for the forma- 
tion of new protoplasm. Throughout the growing period, it 
furnishes the most valuable source of protein, as it is non- 



18(5 ANIMAL FOODS 

stimulating, and less liable to putrefaction in the alimentary 
tract than meat proteins. Given a quart of milk and an egg 
each day, a child under eight years of age on a suitable diet 
of proper fuel value, ^ill have suflScient protein for all body 
needs. 

The fat of milk, being in an emulsified form, is more 
readily dige^ed than the fat of meats and other similar foods. 
The carbohydrates of milk require only transformation to 
simple sugars by the intestinal enzyme lactase, to be per- 
fectly utilized. Often the energy value of milk is increased 
for infants and invalids, by addition of this soluble, mild- 
flavored compound. 

The ash of milk contains the elements required for the 
bony tissues in particularly assimilable forms. It is lack- 
ing in iron, so that this element must be supplied by other 
foods (as yolk of egg) when milk is the chief source of nutri- 
ment. 

The value of milk as a food is not appreciated by many 
people. It is frequently regarded as a beverage rather than 
nutriment, while in fact a quart of milk is equivalent in food 
value to half a loaf of bread (six ounces) or three-quarters of 
a pound of lean beef. It contains as much protein as one- 
third of a pound of lean beef, at approximately the same 
price, and in addition about as much fat as is daily con- 
sumed at the table in the form of butter, over one and one-half 
ounces of milk sugar, and valuable mineral salts. Compared 
with other animal foods milk is a cheap food, even at 10 or 12 
cents per quart, and should enter freely into the dietary. It 
need not be used as a beverage if disliked, but can be combined 
with other materials in soups, sauces for vegetable, custards 
and the like, or used in cooking cereals, in place of water. 

The value of skim milk as a food also needs to be empha- 
sized. It has lost most of the fat in the skimming processes, 
but is correspondingly richer than whole milk in protein, 
carbohydrates and ash. It is not as rich in flavor as whole 
milk, but used in combination with other foods it forms a 
very inexpensive source of valuable nutriment, two and one- 



MILk AND MILK PRODUCTS 187 

half quarts of skim milk will yield as much protein as a 
pound of lean round steak, at less than one-fourth the cost. 

Care of milk. The importance of keeping milk clean can- 
not be over-emphasized. Aside from all esthetic considera- 
tions, absolute cleanliness is essential as a protection to 
health. Milk is an excellent culture medium for bacteria, and 
these organisms may not only be of types producing changes 
in the character of the milk, such as alterations in flavor, 
odor, color, decomposition of proteins, formation of gases, 
alcohol, lactic acid, etc., but also disease germs, especially 
those of tuberculosis, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, and diph- 
theria. 

Commercially, care of milk is important as eflEecting the 
keeping qualities. For all these reasons, milk should come 
from a healthy animal in a sanitary environment. Milking 
must be done under conditions which protect the milk as 
fully as possible from contamination through impurities on 
the cow herself, on the hands or clothing of the milker, in 
the receptacles used for the milk, and in the air, in the place 
where the milking is done. Milk should be immediately 
cooled, and transported to the consumer in sealed bottles; 
cooling prevents the growth of bacteria. Such cautions 
necessarily increase the price of milk, but even then milk is 
a cheap food and the additional security is worth paying 
for. 

Certification of Milk, To insure a milk free from im- 
purities, the method of certification and pasteurization have 
been widely adopted. 

Certification involves a specific testing of milk against all 
accidental and harmful contamination. To secure it the 
services of chemists, bacteriologists and veterinary surgeons 
are required. The most vital object desired is the exclusion 
of tubercule bacilli from milk, which involves a special in- 
spection of dairy herds and rejection of tuberculous cows. 
Other pernicious germs, pus corpuscles, etc., are also sought 
for. 

Certification of milk requires periodical inspection of 



188 ANIMAL FOODS 

dairies, of bottled milk bought in open market, etc. All milk 
must correspond to a number and variety of tests, too numer- 
ous to be mentioned in this donnection. Every branch of 
the milk trade is covered. Such milk receives a certificate 
which should contain the date of milking and is naturally ex- 
pensive, but it should be used whenever possible for infants 
and little children, and for all purposes in households which 
buy the best grades of other food materials. 

Pasteurization, This is the process by which milk is ren- 
dered more or less sterile through destruction of active bac- 
teria by heat. Various standards as to temperature and 
time have been adopted, but in general the milk is heated 
to a temperature not exceeding 167** F., for a period of 20 to 
45 minutes, and then rapidly cooled to 45° F. or lower. 
Most harmful bacteria and lactic acid bacteria are killed. 
Spores are not killed, and if the milk is not kept cold or is 
allowed to stand too long, putrefactive organisms develop. 
These putrefactive changes are very undesirable, so that the 
care of pasteurized milk is just as important as that of fresh 
milk. If carelessly handled, the fact that it does not sour 
readily is a menace to health rather than a benefit. 

Commercial pasteurization is a cheap and effective means of 
preventing the spread of ordinary infectious diseases. The 
degree of heat used does not change materially the flavor nor 
the chemical composition of the milk. It does destroy the 
enzymes naturally present in milk, and how much this affects 
the value of milk for infants is still unsettled. When clean 
fresh milk cannot be absolutely insured, it is safer to pas- 
teurize. But this process cannot make bad milk good nor 
dirty milk clean. If bacteria have already produced poison- 
ous products it will not destroy them. 

Sterilization. Sterilization is accomplished by keeping 
milk at boiling temperature (212** F.) for 10 or more minutes, 
preferably in the vessel in which it is to remain. This will 
kill all living bacteria, but will not destroy spores. Hence 
to render milk absolutely sterile, repetition of the process on 
successive days is necessary. This is rarely done, as the 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 189 

gpores are not likely to develop if the milk is kept at a 
temperature of 40** F. or less. 

Sterilized milk is not an ideal food. Boiling changes the 
taste, the cream does not rise as quickly, and it is less easily 
coagulated by the action of rennet. Lecithin is decomposed, 
diminishing the amount of organic phosphorus compounds^ 
and increasing the inorganic phosphorus which is not as use- 
ful to the body. The calcium salts are changed, and the 
ferments of the milk destroyed. Sterilization should be re- 
garded as an emergency measure, for hot weather, when cool- 
ing facilities are lacking. 

lOLX PRODUCTS 

Butter. Butter consists almost entirely of separated milk 
fat. Churning causes the fat globules to unite into a solid 
mass. The cream is first allowed to ripen for some hours. 
This process gives the characteristic taste and odor, which is 
due to action of bacteria. When kept, butter tends to turn 
rancid, owing to the fermentation of a small quantity of casein 
present. Salt is added largely to prevent this change. But- 
ter is very palatable, and one of the most digestible forms 
of fat. 

Cheese. Cheese is made from full milk, skim milk or 
cream. It consists of the casein of the milk and more or 
less of the fat and mineral matters. The flavor is due to the 
action of enzymes in molds or bacteria. Cheese is a very 
concentrated nutritious food, and very thoroughly assimilated. 
It is not usually well borne by invalids and convalescents, 
however. 

Cream. Cream is the fatty layer which forms at the top 
of milk which is allowed to stand undisturbed. It contains 
the fat of the milk, water, some protein, carbohydrates and 
mineral matter. The percentage of fat is exceedingly vari- 
able, ranging from about 16 per cent, to 40 per cent. The 
cream which rises on milk after 24 hours is called gravity 
cream and contains about 16 per cent. fat. The richer creams 
are obtained by centrifugalizing the milk. Cream in large 



190 ANIMAL FOODS 

quantities is less easily digested than an equal amount of 
whole milk because of the large amount of fat, but this form 
of fat is easily digested compared with other food fats, and 
hence is often ordered by physicians. 

Curds. When milk sours, owing to the formation of 
lactic acid by the action of lactic acid bacteria upon the 
sugar, or when the enzyme rennet is added to fresh milk at 
body temperature, and the clot is stirred, the curds separate 
from the whey. 

Curds consist of coagulated casein, which commonly car- 
ries with it the fat ; gentle heat facilities this separation, but 
a high temperature renders the curd tough and indigestible; 
with or without the addition of cream, curds are used as 
cottage cheese. It is a very cheap, nutritious food. 

Junket If sweet milk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet, the thickened, custard-like mass 
is called junket. This is a valuable method of using milk, 
especially for invalids, children, and those who from personal 
idiosyncrasy cannot drink milk. 

Whey. This substance may be either sweet when formed 
by junket or sour when otherwise produced. It contains 
most of the lactose, lactalbumin and ash constituents of the 
milk, but has so little nutritive value, owing to the removal of 
the milk fat and casein, that it may be regarded as a beverage. 
See page 185. 

Sour Milk. When whole milk sours, with the formation 
of " curds and whey,'' the entire product is known as clabber 
or bonny-clabber. It is wholesome, and nutritious, since it 
contains all the ingredients naturally present in milk. By 
some it is used as a beverage. When not so relished, it can be 
used to good advantage in cooking, adding its nutritive value 
to any dish in which it is incorporated. 

Buttermilk. True buttermilk, which is common on farms, 
is seldom found in commerce. Unless produced where sold, 
its genuineness may be a matter of question. Those who are 
familiar with the genuine article state that the delicacy of 
its flavor, its consistency, etc., are much superior to the so- 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 191 

called buttermilk of commerce. The composition of the two 
articles is practically the same. When skim milk, the cream 
having been removed by the separator, is allowed to sour, it 
is said to resemble ordinary buttermilk, and the fluid which 
goes by the latter name, sold extensively throughout Greater 
New York, is said to be sour skim milk. 

MetschnicJcoff Artificially Soured Milk. The announce- 
ment some years ago by MetschnickoflE that the foregoing 
products were of very great hygienic and therapeutic value in 
disinfecting the intestines has resulted in the wholesale pro- 
duction of a substance which diflEers from ordinary sour 
milk in that it is prepared from a pure culture of lactic- 
acid germs. This product is doubtless destined to replace 
the older ones on account of its freedom from undesirable 
forms of bacteria. The technique for preparing it, devised 
originally by MetschnickoflE himself, also places it in a higher 
class than the older preparations. The pure culture is sold 
in the solid form as Buttermilk Tablets. 

Fermented Milk. Milk which has been fermented is really 
a derivative of native milk, and in parts of Europe and Asia 
constitutes an important article of diet. The fermentation 
is either the lactic alone or lactic and alcoholic together. 

The ferments used consist chiefly of various ^^ leavens ^ 
or cultures which cause lactic acid fermentation. People who 
have subsisted on this milk for centuries simply use a por- 
tion of old fermented milk to leaven fresh milk. These 
leavens vary considerably in composition, and the milk used 
may be from one of several domestic animals. Some leavens 
contain yeast germs, as that alcohol may or may not be 
present. The native preparations which have been imitated 
in this country are kumyss, kefir'and matzoon. 

Kumyss was prepared originally from mares' milk. The 
leaven contains lactic acid germs and yeast. The product 
therefore contains lactic acid, alcohol, and carbonic acid 
gas, representing an acid, eflEervescing, mildly alcoholic bev- 
erage. The casein curd is finely broken up and partially 
digested. Kumyss has been imitated in America by adding 



192 ANIMAL FOODS 

yeast to milk and allowing fermentation to proceed twenty- 
four hours or over. 

Kefir was made originally from cows^ milk with a leaven 
of kumyss. This has been sold in tablet form like the ren- 
net ferment. Kefir resembles kumyss so closely that no 
further description is necessary. 

Matzoon diflEers from the preceding chiefly in containing 
no alcohol. 

Modified Milk is milk containing definite proportions of 
fat, sugar, proteids, etc., put up usually according to the 
formula of a physician, who prescribes the quantity of the 
different constituents he desires. 

For sick children and in convalescence it is of great value 
to obtain a modification in which the composition is definite 
and accurate. It can then be known what mixtures will agree 
with the patient. 

Malted Milk is a pure food prepared from rich full-cream 
milk, combined with the valuable nutritive extracts of malted 
barley and wheat. This product being highly concentrated 
and partially predigested, supplies a large amount of nutrition 
with little tax upon the digestive organs. It is a valuable 
nutrient in dyspepsia or impaired digestion, for fever and 
wasting diseases, the convalescent, nursing mothers, and the 
aged. 

Peptonised Milk is milk in which the casein or curd has 
been made soluble and diffusible by means of the Peptonising 
Tubes. In these Peptonising Tubes, extractum pancreatis, 
containing the pancreatic ferment which acts especially upon 
the proteins of milk, is combined with soda bicarbonate in 
due proportion, and each tube contains sufficient peptonising 
powder to peptonise a pint of milk. Milk may be peptonised 
by various methods — by the "cold process,'* "immediate 
process,'* "warm process,'* etc. The method and degree of 
peptonisation suitable for any special case is soon determined 
by experience, by the agreeability of the milk and its digesti- 
bility. 
* Condensed Milk. Preservation of milk by condensation 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 193 

constitutes a very extensive commercial industry. There are 
several processes in vogue, and the product is either sweet- 
ened or unsweetened. Ordinary unsweetened milk contains 
about 12 per cent, each of protein and fat and 16 per cent, 
of the native milk sugar, making the total solids 40 per cent. 
Cane sugar may be added to the amount of about 40 per cent, 
more, making the total solids 80 per cent. Milk may also 
be condensed by forcing filtered air through it, until its vol- 
ume is reduced to one-fourth the original amount. This 
product is sold in sterile bottles. Condensed milk is very 
generally used as a substitute for fresh milk. It is especially 
valuable in tropical regions and on ocean voyages. It is 
important that condensed milk be made from clean milk, and 
kept free from bacteria contamination. The unsweetened 
brands are especially liable to putrefaction, and should be 
cared for, when offened, like fresh milk. 

Desiccated Milk. When the process of condensation has 
been carried to complete expulsion of all fluid matter, a 
powder may be obtained which is sold as milk powder, des- 
iccated milk, etc. 

ENZBGY VALTTE OF HILK 

1 cup of whole milk = 160 Calories. 

1 cup skimmed milk = 80 Calories. 

1 cup cream ( 18% ) = 440 Calories. 

1 cup cream (40% ) = 864 Calories. 

PASTETTBIZATION 

Methods of Preparing. Put bottle into kettle of cold 
water and slowly bring to the boiling point. Boil ten minutes. 
After which fill immediately nearly full with milk; cork with 
absorbent cotton which has been baked in the oven until a 
delicate brown. Place bottles on a rest in a deep pan so that 
they will not touch bottom, and fill the pan with cold water to 
reach as high as the milk in bottles. Heat water gradually to 
155 to 167 degrees Fahrenheit, or until small bubbles appear 
in the milk next to the glass. Eemove to back of stove and 
^keep milk at same temperature 20 to 45 minutes; then cool 



194 ANIMAL FOODS 

quickly to 45 degrees or lower. To cool rapidly put bottles 
first into lukewarm water and then cold water until milk is 
cold, then surround with ice water. Keep in cold place and 
do not remove stoppers until ready to use. Note Pasteuriza- 
tion, page 188. 

Utensils. A convenient form of apparatus for pasteuriza- 
tion is known as the Hygeia Pasteurizer or Sterilizer. Or 
a covered tin pail answers well for the larger vessel, and an 
inverted pie pan with perforated bottom can serve as the 
false bottom. A hole may be punched in the cover of the 
pail, a cork inserted and a chemical thermometer put through 
the cork so that the bulb dips in the water, thus enabling one 
to watch the temperature closely- without removing the cover, 
or an ordinary dairy thermometer may be used from time 
to time by removing the lid. 

STERILIZATION 

The utensils and methods to sterilize milk are the same as 
for pasteurizing, except that the water is heated to the boil- 
ing point (312** F.) and the time for boiling is ten or more 
minutes. Note Sterilization, page 188. 

EVAPORATED HILK 

It is sometimes of advantage, as in cases of dilated stom- 
ach or whenever the total amount of fluids must be cut down 
to a given point, to heat the milk in a pan over which is 
placed an inverted funnel. Much of the water of the milk 
passes off as vapor, while the solids remain in the pan. 

BAZED MILK 

Into a stone jar put one-half gallon of sweet milk; cover 
with writing paper and tie it on. Bake in moderate oven 
nine to ten hours. It will be the consistency of thick cream* 

HALTED MILK, 69 CALORIES 

Mix one tablespoon of Horlick's Malted Milk powder with 
a little tepid water to make a smooth paste ; add three-fourths 
cup water, hot or cold, stirring briskly and serve. 



. MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 195 

Note. — May be prepared with hot milk instead of water 
and a little cream added if desired. 

PEPTOHISED XnX, 838 CALORIES 
Warm Prooen 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) into a 
clean quart bottle and shake thoroughly; add a pint of cold 
fresh milk and shake again; then place the bottle in a pail 
or kettle of warm water — about 115** F., or not too hot to 
immerse the whole hand in it without discomfort. Keep 
the bottle in the water bath for five or ten minutes, or longer 
if it is desired to peptonise the milk quite completely, then 
put it immediately on ice — directly in contact with the ice 
— in order to check the process of digestion and keep the milk 
from spoiling. 

The degree of peptonisation is very simply regulated in 
this process by the length of time during which the milk is 
kept in the water bath. It is seldom necessary to peptonise 
milk until it becomes bitter. 

PARTIALLY PEPTONISED ULK, 888 CALORIES 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water and the powder con- 
tained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairchild) into a 
clean saucepan, and stir well ; add a pint of cold fresh milk, 
and heat, with constant stirring, to boiling point. The heat 
should be so applied that the milk will come to a boil in ten 
minutes. Let it cool to about lukewarm, then strain into a 
clean bottle or glass jar, cork tightly and keep in a cold 
place. The bottle or jar should always be well shaken before 
and after pouring out a portion. The milk may be taken 
cold or hot as the physician may direct. 

''Partially peptonised milk'' if properly prepared will not 
become bitter. 

PEPTONISED HILX, 888 CALORIES 
Cold Process 

Put one-half cup (gill) of cold water into a clean quart 
bottle and dissolve in it by shaking thoroughly the powder 



196 ANIMAL FOODS 

contained in one of the Peptonising Tubes (Fairehild) ; add 
a pint of cold fresh milk, shake the bottle again, and twi- 
mediately place it on ice — directly in contact with the ice. 

The bottle should always be well shaken before and after 
pouring out a portion. 

Peptonised milk prepared by this recipe is especially ap" 
predated by patients who dislike the taste of warmed or 
boiled milk, and ordinarily it is readily digested and assimi^ 
lated. 

PEPTONISED MILK 
Immediate Process 

Put two tablespoons (1 oz.) of cold water into a goblet 
or glass; dissolve in this one-quarter of the contents of a 
Peptonising Tube (Fairehild) ; add eight tablespoonfuls 
(4 ozs.) of warm milk — not boiling; drink immediately, 
sipping slowly; 85 calories. 

To prepare half a pint of milk, use half the contents of a 
Peptonising Tube, 4 tablespoonfuls of water, a half pint of 
milk; 169 calories. 

SPECIALLY PEPTONISED HILK, 888 CALORIES 

For Making Milk Jelly, Milk Punch, Milk Lemonade, and for TTse 

with Fruit Juices or Acids 

Peptonise a pint of milk by the "Warm Process,^' keep- 
ing the bottle in the water bath for one hour; pour the pep- 
tonised milk into a saucepan and heat to boiling, when it is 
ready for use if it is required hot ; or it may be put on ice, in 
a bottle or any suitable container, to be used for punches, 
lemonade, etc. 

It is necessary to peptonise the milk quite completely — 
for one hour — so that it will not curdle when mixed with 
lemon juice or acid. The bitter taste of this "specially 
peptonised milk ^^ is not evident in the jellies, punches, "etc., 
and these foods are very agreeable and exceedingly assimil- 
able. 

EFFERVESCENT PEPTONISED MILK 

Into a glass put some finely cracked ice and fill it half- 
full of vichy, Apollinaris or siphon water, add immediately 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 197 

peptonised milk prepared by any of the prescribed methods 
and drink while effervescing. Brandy or other spirits may be 
added if desired. 

THICKENED ULK 

See Flour Gruel. Page 239. 

BICE MILK, 468 CALORIES 

1 ounce rice. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 pint scalded milk. 1 teaspoon sugar. 

Soak rice twelve hours, strain and add the scalded milk, 
salt and sugar. Stir well and cook slowly one hour. Eub 
through a fine sieve (thin with more hot milk if desired). 
Taste and add more seasoning if necessary. Sago or tapioca 
may be used in the same way. 

BUM AND MILK, 186 CALORIES 

% cup milk. iy2 teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon rum or brandy. 

Use fresh or pasteurized milk. Put ingredients into a 

lemonade shaker or fruit jar (using rubber band and cover) ; 

cover well and shake until frothy. Serve in glass three- 
fourths filled. 

SHERRY OR BRANDY AND MILK, 173 CALORIES 

% cup fresh milk. % teaspoon sugar. 

% tablespoon brandy or Nutmeg. 

Vs wineglass of sherry. 

Blend as for "Eum and Milk.^' Fill glass three-fourths 
full and add a grating of nutmeg on top. 

CINNAMON AND MILK, 132 CALORIES i 

% cup new milk. Sugar. 

Stick cinnamon. y^ teaspoon brandy. 

Boil milk, with suflBcient cinnamon to flavor pleasantly, 
and sweeten. This may be taken cold with the brandy. 
Very good in cases of diarrhoea. Children may take it warm 
without brandy. 

^ Without sugar. 



198 ANIMAL FOODS 



Qy2 ounces whey = 50 Calories. 

1 cup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

% Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet, dissolved 
in the cold water. Allow it to jelly in a warm place. Then 
break up the curd and strain through two thicknesses of 
cheese-cloth, being careful to remove all the casein. Serve 
cold, with or without sweetening, and flavor as desired. 

IiaXTID PEPTONOIDS AND WHEY 

Place one tablespoonful of finely cracked ice in a small tea- 
cup. Pour over it one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids; 
stir, fill the cup with whey and drink slowly. 

ACID PHOSPHATE WHEY 

See " Acid Drinks '' for recipe. Page 113. 

LEMON WHEY 

See " Acid Drinks ^^ for recipe. Page 113. 

WINE WHEY 

See " Acid Drinks '' for recipe. Page 113. 

PANOPEPTON WITH WHEY 

Put into a small teacup one or two teaspoonfuls of clean 
crushed ice; add one tablespoonful of Panopepton, stir, then 
fill the cup with whey. Drink slowly. This is very refresh- 
ing and nourishing — an admirable liquid food for fever 
patients and convalescents. 

KUMY8S, 828 CALORIES 
i cake Fleischmann's yeast. 1 tablespoon water. 

1^2 tablespoons sugar. 1 quart milk. 

Make a thin syrup of the sugar and water and cook one 
minute. Soften the yeast in two tablespoons of lukewarm 
milk. Heat the milk until lukewarm, add other ingredients 
and shake. Put in sterile patent beer bottles, place in up- 
right position 'for twelve hours, at 70 degrees Fahrenheit 
(or comfortably warm room) ; then turn on side at heat 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 199 

50 degrees Fahrenheit (lower part of ice-box). Beady for 
use after the first twenty-four hours ; often kept several days, 
but the longer it is kept the less palatable it is. Do not 
open a bottle of kumyss without a champagne tap, or the 
cork may be punctured with a stout needle to let the gas 
escape. It should look like thick, foamy cream. 

Kumyss is especially suited for many forms of indigestion, 
nausea, fever and gastric trouble, pulmonary consumption and 
other wasting disease. 

Dr. Brushes prepared kumyss is recommended on account 
of its superiority over the home-made preparations, as the 
milk supply is controlled, and the method of preparing is 
carried out upon scientific bases. It is also more convenient, 
as it is ready for immediate use. 

KATZOON OB ZOOLAK (GEBHAN HOSPITAL, NEW YORK CITY) 

1 pint = 338 Calories. 

Take forty-five pints of milk, boil thoroughly. Cream 
two or three times; that is, until all the cream is removed. 
When the milk is still quite warm add two (2) bottles of 
prepared bottled Zoolak. Mix thoroughly. Bottle quickly in 
pint bottles, not entirely full. Cork tightly immediately, and 
put in a warm place till the liquid shows creamy through the 
bottles. Then place and keep in a cold place. 

N. B. — If chilled before it is thick it remains thin and 
the flavor is spoiled. If not kept very cold after it is made 
the fermentation is carried too far. 

JTTNZET, 169 CALORIES 

1 cup fresh milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm; add the tablet dissolved 
in the cold water ; allow it to jelly in a warm place ; chill in 
ice-box; serve plain or in the various ways as directed in 
chapter " Nutritious Desserts.'^ 

ARTIPICIAL OR HOMEMADE BXTTTERMILB: 

1 cup (whole milk buttermilk) ^169 Calories. 

Pasteurize fresh, sweet milk, which may be new, or partly 



200 ANIMAL FOODS 

skimmed, or entirely fat-free, as desired, by heating it to 
between 160 and 175 degrees F, and holding at such tem- 
perature for at least 30 minutes, cool to 100 degrees. 

Dissolve one Junket .Brand Buttermilk Tablet in a table- 
spoon of cold milk or water and add a quart or less of the 
pasteurized milk. Leave in warm room until thick, 24 to 
36 hours. 

When milk has thickened, place in refrigerator. When 
cold, " Churn ^* by shaking the bottle vigorously for a minute 
or two. Or the milk may be prepared in a fruit jar, a bowl 
or a pitcher and beaten with an egg beater until smooth and 
creamy. 

If the acid flavor is too mild, let stand cold another day. 

If desired, the milk may be diluted with one-fourth water. 
A pinch of salt may be added. 

Junket Buttermilk may be kept on ice or in refrigerator 
for a week or longer. 

SWEETBEEADS 

Among epicures sweetbreads are considered a dainty and 
are certainly a most acceptable food for the sick, as they are 
easily digested, but they must not be used to excess on account 
of the large amount of uric acid which they produce. 

Definition. Sweetbreads are the pancreas and thymus 
glands of the calf, the word being used for either one or 
both organs. The thymus glands are removed and used for 
food while the animal lives on milk. The pancreas of the 
calf is sometimes called stomach sweetbread, and the thymus 
gland the neck or throat sweetbread. The latter is con- 
sidered somewhat more easily digested than the former. 

Digestibility. It is an error to state that sweetbreads are 
more digestible because they contain digestive ferments in 
life, for these are destroyed by cooking. The tenderness of 
these bodies is due doubtless to the delicate character of the 
connective tissue, and to the soft character of the gland tis- 
sue itself, which is rich in nucleo-protein. The presence of 



SWEETBREADS 201 

this nuclein is objectionable for gouty and other patients 
with uric acid disorders, but this is no contraindication for 
an occasional use of them by invalids. 

ENERGY VALUE OF SWEETBREADS 

100 grams (3^^ oz.) sweetbreads = 176 Calories. 

1 pair sweetbreads, medium size ( 8 oz. ) . . = 309 Calories. 

1 pair sweetbreads, medium size (8 oz.), when cooked, freed from 
membrane, pipe, etc., and cut into cubes, measures three-fourths 
cup. 

TO PREPARE SWEETBREADS 
(To Parboil.) 

Bemove from paper as soon as received from market, plunge 
into cold water and allow to stand one hour. Drain. Place 
immediately in boiling water salted water to cover, allowing 
one-half tablespoon each of salt and vinegar to a pair of 
sweetbreads. Simmer twenty minutes; again drain and 
plunge into cold water that they may keep white and firm. 
Free from membrane fat and veins, and serve as desired. 

Sweetbreads are always prepared in this way for subse- 
quent cooking and are spoken of as parboiled. 

BROILED SWEETBREADS 

Parboil and cut in halves cross-wise. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, place on a greased fine wire broiler, and broil 
five minutes over a clear fire. As soon as sweetbread is 
heated brush both sides with a little melted butter. Serve 
with creamed butter to which has been added a little lemon 
juice or simply spread with soft butter. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. I, 288 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% tablespoon butter. l^ cup milk. 

Yz tablespoon flour. Vz^^V sweetbreads. 

Melt the butter, add flour and pour on gradually the scald- 
ing milk. Cook thoroughly and season. Add the parboiled 
sweetbreads cut in small pieces, reheat and serve on toast and 
garnish with parsley. 



202 ANIMAL FOODS 

Note. — For Scalloped Sweetbreads put creamed sweetbreads 
in small baking dish ; cover with cracker crumbs and dot with 
bits of butter ; bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS NO. II, 968 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1 cup thin cream or rich milk. ^^ teaspoon salt. 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup sweetbreads. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Parboil sweetbreads and cut into one-half inch cubes. 
Blend flour with a little cold milk to make a smooth mixture ; 
scald cream in double boiler, add the flour mixture and cook 
thoroughly. Just before serving add the prepared sweet- 
breads, salt and butter. Serve hot on toasted rounds, and 
garnish with parsley, or use as a filling for Swedish tim- 
bales. 

Note. — May use equal proportions of cold cooked chicken 
and sweetbreads, reheat and serve in the cream sauce. 

FRICASSEED SWEETBREADS, 240 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 

Parboil and cut sweetbread into one-half inch pieces. 
Make a sauce using: 

2 teaspoons butter. % cup hot strong chicken broth. 

1 teaspoon flour. ^ cup cream. 

y^ teaspoon lemon juice. Salt and pepper. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, allow it to simmer until 
a golden brown, then add the hot broth gradually, stirring 
constantly, lastly the cream. Season with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice. A speck of curry powder may be added if 
desired. 

Put the cut sweetbread into the sauce, simmer five minutes 
and serve on sippets or squares of dry toast; garnish with 
parsley. 

SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS 
1 cup of canned peas = 100 Calories. 

Parboil and broil sweetbreads, arrange in center of plat- 
ter, and serve the peas (cooked and seasoned) around them. 

^ Calculated without the sweetbreads 



GELATIN 203 

Or the peas may be piled in center of platter and the broiled 
sweetbreads arranged as a border. A cream sauce may be 
poured over all; for it, use the recipe in Creamed Sweet- 
breads No. I or II. 

GELATIN 

Source. Gelatin is a nitrogenous food classed with pro- 
teins, under the division called gelatinoids or albuminoids, and 
derived from " collagen,^^ the chief constituent of connective 
tissue with its various modifications, as tendons, ^'chondri- 
gen^^ of cartilage, or the "ossein" of bone. "By proper 
treatment, any form of connective tissue can be made to yield 
gelatin. Hide clippings yield glue, a crude form of gelatin, 
and much commercial gelatin is simply a purified glue, derived 
from such a source. Isinglass, obtained from the swimming 
bladder of the sturgeon and other fish, is the purest form of 
gelatin ; the gelatin obtained from calves' feet is also of high 
quality." ^ 

General Principles in Cooking. Gelatin is insoluble in 
cold water, but when allowed to stand in it will swell from 
absorption of water. " Gelatin is very soluble in boiling 
water, and on cooling sets into a jelly. This jellying will 
occur in a solution containing as little as 1 per cent, of 
gelatin." ^ Gelatin is- decomposed by boiling and conse- 
quently if allowed to boil will not solidify on cooling. 

Digestibility. Gelatin is very easily digested in the stom- 
ach, and readily absorbed from the small intestines. 

Nutritive Value. Although gelatin is a protein food, it 
cannot alone support life. Proteins are made up of groups 
of amino acids, mpst of which it seems necessary to have 
represented in the diet, to secure complete repair of the waste 
of nitrogenous tissue. In gelatin two important acids are 
lacking ; hence not more than two-thirds of the day's nitrogen 
requirement should be given in the form of gelatin. Because 

1 state of Connecticut. Report of The Connecticut Agrricultural Experi- 
ment Station. Food and Drug Products, 1909. Being Part II of the 
Biennial Report of 1909-1910. 



204 ANIMAL FOODS 

it can to this extent take the place of other proteins, gelatin 
has often been called a " protein-sparer/^ rather than a true 
protein. In the ordinary intake of animal food, not more 
than one-eighth of the total nitrogen is in the form of gelatin. 
It is usually not convenient to take more than 25 to 30 
grams (about 1 ounce) in a day. Six ounces of calf's foot 
jelly (which would be a large helping) contain less than half 
an ounce of gelatin. Jellying will occur in a solution con- 
taining as little as 1 per cent, of gelatin. Gelatin has the 
advantage (along with other proteins) of fixing a good deal 
of acid in the process of stomach digestion and is thus of 
service in cases of hyperacidity of the stomach, when given 
in other forms than acid jellies. It seems also to promote 
the secretion of gastric juice. It is useful in febrile states 
as it really belongs with liquid foods, melting as it does at 
body temperature. 

In convalescence, acid jellies (orange, lemon, etc.,) are of 
service as a pleasant supplement to the ordinary diet, but the 
actual nutriment which they supply is small. 

Extra nutriment can be added to gelatin by combining it 
with eggs and milk, as in Snow Pudding, Charlottes of 
various kinds, Spanish Cream, etc., all of which are attrac- 
tive forms of invalid diet. 

Meat Jellies are condensed form of broth, and are prepared 
by taking any meat containing a large proportion of connec- 
tive tissues and cooking long and slowly. (Note broths, page 
217 for directions and recipes.) Home-made jellies, prop- 
erly prepared, have a pleasing flavor and are an agreeable 
addition to diet of an invalid, although their nutritive value 
is low. 

WINE JELLY NO. I, 165 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons wine. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon orange juice. 

% cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 



GELATIN 205 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water and dissolve. Add sugar, wine, orange and lemon 
juice. When sugar is dissolved, strain through a cheese- 
cloth into cold, wet molds; or chill in shallow soup plate 
and when firm cut into one-half inch cubes and serve in 
sherbert or champagne glasses, or half orange shell with a 
little whipped cream on top. 

WINE JELLY NO. II, 1530 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

^ box shredded gelatin or 2 cups boiling water. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup wine. 

% cup cold water. Speck salt. 
1% cups sugar. 

Cover gelatin with the cold water and let it stand about 
one-half hour. Add the boiling water, sugar and salt. Stir 
till gelatin is dissolved and add the wine. Strain through 
cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds and set in cold place 
to harden. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

PEFTONOIDS WINE JELLY, 192 CALOBIES 

l^ box gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

8 tablespoons boiling water. 1 tablespoon Liquid Peptonoids. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar, wine and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is 
dissolved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

ORANGE JELLY NO. I, 1020 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

% box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin. 1 cup orange juice. 

% cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 
2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water one-half hour; add the 
boiling water and dissolve. Add sugar and fruit juice, 
strain through a cloth and strainer into cold, wet molds 



206 ANIMAL FOODS 

and set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

CHANGE JELLY NO. II, 152 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Make same as preceding. Soaking gelatin five minutes. 

Cut orange in half, crosswise, remove pulp with spoon 
and strain through cheese-cloth. Fill halves with jelly ; when 
it is hardened cut with sharp knife into thirds (which leaves 
the rim filled with jelly). Serve three pieces on small plate 
with whipped cream in center. 

CHANGE BASKETS 

Wash oranges. Remove two sections from the upper half 
of an orange, leaving a band of peel for a handle. Dig out 
the pulp and scrape clean. Fill with lemon or orange jelly, 
cut into cubes. An attractive form to serve to children. 

Note. — If these shells are wrapped in a damp cloth they 
will retain their shape for hours. 

LEMON JELLY, 142 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

y^ cup boiling water. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the boiling 
water, sugar and fruit juice. When the sugar is dissolved, 
pour into cold, wet molds and put on ice to harden. 

GEAFE JELLY, 588 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. % cup sugar. 
l^ cup cold water. Juice 1 lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. ^ cup Welch's grape juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water; add boiling water and 
dissolve. Add sugar, lemon juice and grape juice; strain, 
jgour into cold, wet molds and cool. 



GELATIN 307 

This recipe may be served in another and very inviting 
form; when the gelatin is firm, force it through a potato 
ricer. Keep on ice until ready to serve. 

PEACH JELLY, 130 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 teaspoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon cold water. 1 tablespoon sherry wine. 

1 tablespoon boiling water. 1% tablespoons sugar. 

3 tablespoons peach juice. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add boiling 
water and dissolve. Add fruit juice, wine and sugar, strain 
and pour into a cold, wet mold. 

COFFEE JELLY, 529 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. 7 tablespoons cream. 

2 tablespoons strong hot coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes. Add the hot 
coffee and dissolve; add sugar and strain. Set bowl into 
chopped ice, or ice water to cool, stirring occasionally until 
it thickens. Then add the cream, and pour into cold, wet 
molds to chill. 

PEPTONOIDS COFFEE JELLY, 255 CALOEIES i 

l^ box granulated gelatin. Sugar to taste. 

4 tablespoons cold water. 8 tablespoons Liquid Peptonoids. 
8 tablespoons boiling coffee. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes ; add the boiling 
coffee, sugar and Liquid Peptonoids. When sugar is dis- 
solved, strain and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice 
to harden. 

CEEAM JELLY, 330 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons scalded milk. Vanilla to taste. 

4 tablespoons thick cream. 

1 Without sugar. 



208 ANIMAL FOODS 

Soak gelatin in the cold water 5 minutes; add the 
scalded milk and dissolve. Add the sugar, salt, cream and 
vanilla. Stir occasionally until the mixture thickens; pour 
into cold, wet after-dinner coffee cups, or egg cups, and chill. 
Serve with Soft Custard, or cream and sugar. 

PEPTGNISED MILK JELLY, 517 CALGEIES i 

(Three Servings.) 

1 pint " specially peptonised Rinds and juice of one fresh 

milk," hot. lemon and orange. 

^ box gelatin. 2 or 3 tablespoons best St. Croix 

Sugar to taste. rum, or brandy, etc. 

Soak the gelatin in a cup of cold water, pour the hot milk 
over it and add the sugar; stir until dissolved, then throw 
in the lemon and orange rinds. 

Squeeze the juice of the lemon and orange into a glass 
and strain ; stir in the rum or brandy, etc., then mix with the 
milk and gelatin; strain. 

When the mixture has cooled to a syrup so as to be almost 
ready to set, pour into molds or glasses wet in cold water 
and put on ice or in cold water or in a cold place to harden ; 
if it is too warm when poured into the molds, it is apt 
to separate in setting. 

PANOPEPTON JELLY, 248 CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1 oimce fresh celery (cut 2 dashes pepper. 

in small pieces). 6 tablespoons Panopepton. 

Yg small box best gelatin. 2 cups cold water. 
y^ teaspoon salt. 

Soak the gelatin in one-half cupful of cold water for one 
hour; put the water and celery in a double boiler on the 
fire and simmer one-half hour; add the salt, pepper, and 
soaked gelatin and stir until it is dissolved; remove from 
fire, add Panopepton; stir, and strain through linen into a 
jelly-jar, and set near ice. Serve in small quantities. 

1 Without sugar. 



GELATIN 209 

PAHOPEPTOH JELLY WITH OKAHGE, 879 CALOEIES 

(Three Serrings.) 

y^ small box best gelatin. Juice and peel of 1 orange. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 pint cold water. 

6 tablespoons Panopepton. 

Put the gelatin, orange peel (cut in small pieces), orange 
juice, and cold water in a dish and let it stand for one hour, 
then put in a double boiler on the fire, add the sugar and stir 
until it is dissolved ; now strain through linen, add the Pane* 
pepton and stir well. Pour into a jelly-jar and set near ice. 
Serve in small quantities. 

HEAT JELLIES 

See " Meat Jellies ^' for recipe. Page 221. 

8TABCHY JELLIES 

See " Starchy Jellies ^^ for recipe. Page 244. 

SHOW PTTDDIHG, 984 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

y^ box shredded gelatin or 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. ^ cup lemon juice. 

% cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 

1 cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

Soften gelatin in cold water, add boiling water and dis- 
solve. Add sugar, fruit juice and extract, and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Set bowl into chopped ice, or ice water^ 
to cool, stirring occasionally; when jelly is quite thick fold 
in the stiflSy-beaten whites of eggs, and put into cold, wet 
molds. Put on ice to harden. When firm, remove from 
molds and serve with Soft Custard No. 1. 

SNOW PTTDDIHO, 282 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons granulated gelatin. 1% tablespoons lemon juice. 

3 tablespoons cold water. 3 tablespoons sugar. 
Vz cup boiling water. White 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding. 



210 ANIMAL FOODS 

SPANISH CEEAX, 912 CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.) 

% box shredded gelatin or Yolks 3 eggs. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. 6 tablespoons sugar. 
l^ cup cold water. ^ teaspoon salt. 

% cup boiling water. Whites 3 eggs. 

2 cups milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water, add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Heat the milk in a double-boiler. Beat the 
yolk of eggs, add sugar and salt, and pour the hot milk 
gradually onto the mixture. Eeturn to double-boiler and 
cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Add the strained 
gelatin and the flavoring, and fold in carefully the well- 
beaten whites. Pour into cold, wet molds to harden. Serve 
with Soft Custard No. 1, or with Whipped Cream. 

SPANISH CEEAH, 803 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon granulated gelatin. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons boiling water. White 1 egg. 

% cup milk. y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Yolk 1 egg. 

Make same as preceding, and serve with Orange Sauce. 

OEANGE SATTCE, 136 CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.) 

Beat white of one egg very light, add two tablespoons sugar 
gradually, beating constantly, then add one and one-half 
tablespoon orange juice and one teaspoon lemon juice. 

BAVAEIAN CEEAM, 205 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 teaspoon gelatin. l^ tablespoon sugar. 

1 tablespoon cold water. % teaspoon vanilla. 

l^ cup milk. l^ cup whipped cream. 
Yolk 1 egg. 

Soak gelatin in cold water 5 minutes. Heat the milk and 
pour into the beaten yolk of egg and add this mixture to gela- 



GELATIN 211 

tin ; stir until gelatin is dissolved and flavor. Set in ice vrater 
to cool, beating almost constantly. When it begins to stiffen, 
fold in the whipped cream. Pour into molds. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Note. — Chocolate may be added by omitting flavoring and 
add chocolate to hot milk and dissolve before adding to the 
yolk. 

OBAPE PLTTET, 957 CALOEIES 

(Six Servings.) 

14 box shredded gelatin or 1 cup Welch's grape juice. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. Juice 1 lemon. 
% cup cold water. Whites 3 eggs. 
% cup sugar. 

Soften the gelatin in cold water and dissolve by standing 
the dish in hot water. Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice, 
and strain the gelatin into it. Set in ice and water, and 
stir occasionally until the mixture begins to thicken, then 
add gradually the well-beaten whites of eggs, and beat until 
the whole is very light and stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Pile lightly in glass serving-dish, or mold and serve with 
Whipped Cream or Soft Custard. 

OEANGE CHAELOTTE, 850 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons gelatin. 3 tablespoons orange juice. 
1 tablespoon cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
Vz cup boiling water. Whites 2 eggs. 

Vs Clip sugar. 

Blend as for Orange Gelatin and set the bowl into chopped 
ice or ice-water to cool; stir occasionally. When jelly is 
quite thick, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Mix 
well and pour into cold, wet molds. Put on ice to harden. 
When firm, remove by dipping mold quickly "in warm water ; 
loosen with knife, allowing air to enter. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. 1. 

Note. — Line molds with lady fingers or slices* of sponge 
cake and pour in the charlotte. 



212 ANIMAL FOODS 

STBAWBEEEY HOUSSf, 2284 CALOEIES 

(Six Servings.) 

^ box shredded gelatin or 1 pint thick cream. 

1 tablespoon granulated gelatin. ^ cup powdered sugar. 

V^ cup cold water. 1 cup strawberry juice. 
Vk cup boiling water. 

Soften the gelatin in the cold water ; add the boiling water 
and dissolve. Whip the cream until stiff, and add the pow- 
dered sugar. To the gelatin add the strawberry juice, fold 
the cream in carefully, turn into a wet mold and pack in 
salt and ice for two hours. When ready to serve, turn out of 
mold onto a large glass dish and garnish with fresh straw- 
berries and whipped cream. 

THE HADE-IN-A-HINTTTE DESSEET, 395 CALOEIES 

Dissolve one package of Jell-0, any flavor, in a pint of 
boiling water. Pour into a bowl or mold and put in a 
cold place to harden. When set turn out on a plate and 
serve. 

JELL-0 WITH FETTIT, 395 CALOEIES i 

Dissolve a package of Jell-0, any flavor, in a pint of boil- 
ing water. Pour into a bowl or mold. Just as Jell-0 is 
beginning to set, arrange in it, with the aid of a fork, sliced 
oranges or bananas, or cherries and currants, or peaches and 
strawberries, or any other fruit that may be preferred for the 
purpose. Set away to harden. Serve plain or with whipped 
cream. 

BEEF FBEFABATIONS 

BEEF JUICE—- BEEF TEA — EAW BEEF 

BEEF jmCE 

Composition, The juice of meat contains considerable pro- 
tein, in addition to salts and extractives. 

General Principles in Cooking, From raw meat we can- 
not obtain as much juice as is easily taken from the same 
amount of meat when previously heated. 

^ Calculated without fruit. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 213 

The reason for this is that the envelope enclosing the 
muscular tissue is a tough substance, which swells and dis- 
solves when heated, yielding gelatin, and the liquid portion 
of the meat is easily expressed. If cooked too long the pro- 
tein largely coagulates and the meat loses most of its moisture 
and becomes tough. 

A steak thoroughly heated through swells, and when cut 
the liquid portion flows out readily. One pound of meat 
yields about four ounces of juice. 

Care in Serving. In administering beef juice great care 
should be taken in reheating not to heat it above 136 degrees 
Fahrenheit, at which temperature albumin coagulates in 
flakes. 

Substitutes for Beef Juice. A solution of white of egg 
flavored with meat extract makes a cheap and efficient sub- 
stitute for beef juice. 

Prepared extracts of good make may be used to advantage 
with beef juice to add flavor and make it more appetizing. 

Absorption. Beef juice is absorbed in the rectum to nearly 
the same extent as complete peptones and is an excellent 
article of diet where solid foods cannot be given. 
. Comparative Food Value of Beef Juice and Beef Tea. 
Beef juice, although fourteen times as rich in protein as 
beef tea, is raw in flavor, and is rejected by many palates. 
In such a case, add a small quantity of beef tea or prepared 
beef extract for flavor. 

Thus by the union of two bodies, one rich in protein and 
the other rich in flavor, we have a superior food. Prepare 
a small quantity at a time, as it does not keep well. 

BEEF TEA 

Composition. Meat treated with hot water contains only 
a small percentage of solids and almost no protein except 
extractive matter and soluble mineral matter. The clear 
liquid which remains when the coagulated albumin is strained 
out of beef tea contains only extractive or flavoring sub- 
stances with the soluble mineral matter of the meat. There- 



214 ANIMAL FOODS 

fore it should not be strained, and if properly prepared the 
albumin will not be coagulated to so great an extent. 

Even in strong beef tea which is carefully made the amount 
of proteids present has been found to be less than 2 per cent. 

Nutritive Value. Beef tea is valuable in the sick room not 
as a food, but as a flavoring; the liquid with the heat of the 
water acts as a stimulant. 

Beef Extracts are prepared in both liquid and solid form. 
They have but slight nutritive value, containing but 4 to 5 
per cent, of protein, but are valuable for their flavoring prop- 
erties. They are used to advantage in combination with beef 
juice, adding flavoring and making it more palatable and 
appetizing. 

BAW BEEF 

Uncooked Meat. Saw meat is not quite as easily digested 
as cooked meat, and owing to color and flavor is not appetiz- 
ing, and could not be taken continuously. However, when 
chopped fine, or scraped free from connective tissue, it is 
very readily digested and can be served disguised or very 
slightly cooked in many dainty ways. 

Comparative Food Value of Raw Beef and Beef Tea. It 
can readily be seen that raw meat served chopped fine or 
scraped contains all the nutriment of the meat, whereas beef 
tea as seen from the manner of preparation, contains only the 
extractives and soluble mineral matter of meat. 

BEEF JTTICS 

100 grams (3% oz.) =25 Calories. 

Select a piece of meat from the rump or top of the round. 
Eemove all fat and broil or warm slightly one or two min- 
utes, to set free the juices; lay on plate and cut meat in 
various directions that more juice may be extracted; then 
squeeze out the juice by means of a press, lemon squeezer or 
potato ricer into a slightly warmed cup. Salt if necessary, 
and serve at once. Prepare only enough to serve, as it does 
not keep well. Serve in dainty china cup to disguise color. 
One pound of meat yields four oimces of juice. 



BEEF PREPARATIONS 215 

BEEF JmCE (FOE INFANTS), 20 CALORIES 

This food is very useful in forms of diarrhoea and dysen- 
tery. A half pound of chopped lean meat is made into an 
oval, flat mass, placed on a broiler and slightly browned. 
The juice is then expressed with a small meat press, mixed 
with equal parts of barley water and salted to suit the taste. — 
Koplik. 

BEEF ESSENCE 
100 grams (3% oz.) =23 Calories. 

Put one-half pound round steak (freed from fat, etc.) 
through a meat chopper; put into small glass fruit jar with 
one tablespoon cold water. Place jar in a kettle of cold 
water, heat gradually and keep at temperature 150 degrees 
Fahrenheit (which is 62 degrees below the boiling point of 
water) for two hours. Strain and press the meat to obtain 
all the juice. Season with salt. Serve in slightly heated 
dainty china cup to disguise color. 

Note. — A small piece of raw beef, broiled slightly, then 
cut up and added to above, gives a better flavor. 

Liquid thus obtained should be red with albuminous juice 
in solution and not coagulated ; it is nutritious, and may be 
kept in refrigerator twelve hours. Serve in small quantity 
slightly heated; or it may be made into beef tea by diluting 
with boiling water. Beef essence given ice cold is often 
grateful to a fever patient. 

LIQUID PEFTONOIDS, 28 CALOEIES 

Add one tablespoonful of Liquid Peptonoids to one-half 
cup of boiling water; add pinch of salt. Sip slowly. This 
will be found particularly grateful in painful affections of 
the throat. 

Note. — To serve cold, pour one tablespoonful Liquid Pep- 
tonoids over a small glass of finely cracked ice. Allow it to 
chill thoroughly and sip slowly. 

BEEF TEA 

l^ pound steak. Salt. 

1 cup cold water. 



216 ANIMAL FOODS 

Wipe steak, remove all fat and cut in small pieces. Put 
in glass fruit jar, add the cold water and let it stand fifteen 
minutes to draw out the juice. Cover jar, using rubber band 
and cover, place on trivet in a kettle and surround with cold 
water. Allow water to heat slowly to 150° F. (no higher), 
and keep at this temperature two hours. Strain and season 
with salt. Remove fat with soft paper or bread. Reheat 
over hot water to 130° P. and serve in heated cups. 

Note.^- If possible cool beef tea before serving that fat may 
be removed more thoroughly. 

BEEF TEA PEOZEN 

Beef tea may be frozen to the consistency of a water ice. 
[Very grateful to a fever patient. 

BEEF TEA WITH HYDEOCHLOEIC ACID 

100 grams (3l^ oz.) =25 Calories.i 

Select one-half pound of good beef ; remove everything that 
is not clear meat. Chop it fine. Put in pint fruit jar and 
add one cup cold water and five drops dilute hydrochloric acid. 
Stir and set in refrigerator or any cold place for two hours 
to digest. Then strain, season with salt and serve in some 
dainty china cup on account of color. If one should object 
to color, heat the tea in a double boiler just till color changes. 
Do not strain. Beef tea made in this way is recommended 
by physicians for feeble children and patients much weakened 
hj sickness. 

ICED PANOPEPTON, 30 CALOEIES 

To a small glass half -full of clean crushed ice add one 
tablespoonf ul of Panopepton ; let it stand a moment and then 
gip slowly. 

PANOPEPTON — HOT, 86 CALOEIES 

To a small teacup two-thirds full of boiling water, add one 
tablespoonful of Panopepton, and one teaspoonful of fresh 
lemon juice — a little sugar, if desired — stir. Drink im- 

^ Calculated as beef juice. 



BROTH AND MEAT JELLIES 217 

mediately, sipping slowly. This gives a pleasant sense of 
warmth when one is chilly, and is excellent in cases where 
light nourishment is required before retiring. 

SCEAPED BEEF 

100 grams = 142 Calories. 

Wipe a small piece of steak, cut from top of round. Lay 
it on a meat board, and with a sharp knife scrape off the soft 
part until there is nothing left but the tough, stringy fibers. 
Make it into little flat, round cakes half an inch thick and 
broil them two minutes. Season with salt and pepper if 
allowed. Serve on rounds of buttered toast. Do not add 
salt before cooking, as it toughens the meat. 

EAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

1 ounce scraped beef =40 Calories. 

1 ounce bread ( 1 slice) =73 Calories. 

Prepare meat as for scraped beef, season and spread on 

bread cut very thin. Put slices on top, sandwich-fashion, 

and cut in fancy shapes. Serve in this manner or toast 
daintily. 

BBOTH Am) HEAT JELLIES 

Broth is a liquid containing the juices of soluble parts of 
meat and bone, which have been extracted by long, slow cook- 
ing. 

This liquid is more or less solid when cold, according to the 
gelatinous nature of the ingredients. It varies greatly in 
quantity, according to the manner in which it is prepared 
and the material used. The cheaper, inferior parts of meat 
yield more nutriment than the expensive cuts. 

Composition. Broth contains almost no protein except ex- 
tractive matter with soluble mineral matter and gelatin. 

Objective Point and General Principles in Cooking, The 
chief object in making broth is to obtain the largest possible 
amount of nutriment from the meat. This is best accom- 
plished by observing the following rules : 



218 ANIMAL FOODS 

Cut meat into small pieces. 

Soak in the cold water before heating. 

Use a careful selection and proportion of meat, bone and 
water. (The usual proportion is one pint of water to one 
pound of meat.) 

Season judiciously. 

Use steam-tight kettle; simmer (not boil), that the juice 
may be fully extracted. 

Make it the day before using, that the fat may be removed 
more easily. 

Long, slow cooking. 

Broth may be made from beef, mutton or chicken. Eice, 
barley, Dry Peptonoids Soluble, white or whole egg, etc., may 
be added, if allowed, to increase the quantity of nourishment. 

Comparative Value of Broth and Beef Tea, Broth differs 
from beef tea in that it contains gelatin, besides the extrac- 
tives or flavoring substances and soluble mineral matter that 
are found in beef tea. Gelatin is obtained from meat and 
bones by long, slow cooking, and it is useful in convalescence 
and in febrile states. (Note " Gelatin,^^ p. 203.) 

Meat Jellies are a condensed form of broth, which forms an 
agreeable way of serving protein food to an invalid, and are 
especially valuable in febrile states. Although they do not 
entirely r.eplace protein in the diet, they produce a consid- 
erable quantity of energy. (Note "Gelatin," p. 203, for 
nutritive value.) 

ENEEOY VALTJE OF BEOTH 

Very few analyses of broths are available ; hence no attempt 
has been made to state the calories under each recipe. The 
following table gives an approximate idea of their energy 
value : 

Beef broth 100 grains yield 44 Calories. 

Beef juice 100 grams yield 25 Calories. 

Clam bouillon 100 grams yield 2 Calories. 

Consomme 100 grams yield 12 Calories. 



BROTH 219 

Pood that may be added for extra nutriment 

1 whole egg (average) .... 45 grams yield 60 Calories. 
White of 1 egg (average) . 25 grams yield 13 Calories. 
Yolk of 1 egg (average) . , 13 grams yield 48 Calories. 
1 tablespoon Dry Peptonoids Soluble yield 57 Calories. 

1 tablespoon rice 15 grams yield 60 Calories. 

1 tablespoon barley 27 grams yield 90 Calories. 

MUTTON BEOTH 

2 pounds mutton, cut from fore- Speck pepper. 

quarters. 2 tablespoons boiled rice or bar- 
1 quart cold water. ley. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Wipe meat, remove skin and fat and cut into small pieces. 
Put in a kettle with bones that have been well broken, add 
cold water and let it stand one-half hour to extract the juices. 
Heat gradually to boiling point, skim, and when partly cooked 
season with salt and pepper. Simmer four hours, or until 
meat is tender. Do not allow it to boil. Remove fat and 
strain through a coarse sieve. Serve hot. If broth is made 
the day before it is used, it can be cooled thoroughly and 
the fat be removed easily. In reheating use double boilei. 
Two tablespoons of cooked rice or barley may be added if 
desired. The barley should be soaked over night or several 
hours before cookipg. Taste and season before serving, a tea- 
spoon of chopped parsley may be added just before serving 
if desired. 

Note. — For weaker broth, use one quart of water to one 
pound of meat. 

BEEF BEOTH 

Prepared same as Mutton Broth. 

BEOTH WITH GEAINS 
1 quart hot broth. 1 tablespoon rice or barley. 

To the hot broth add the well-washed rice. Simmer slowly 
until the rice is tender, adding more broth if it evaporates. 
The broth should be strained before using. 



220 ANIMAL FOODS 

CHICKEN BROTH 

SYz pounds chicken. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 pints cold water. Speck pepper. 

2 tablespoons rice. 

Thoroughly clean a chicken (see "Poultry/^ p. 153), re- 
move skin and fat; separate at the joints and wipe with a 
wet cloth. Put in kettle and add the cold water and let 
stand one-half hour. Heat very slowly and simmer three 
hours, or until meat is tender. When half-cooked skim off 
fat and add the rice and seasonings (and if desired, a small 
onion). When meat is tender, skim off fat and strain, taste 
and season properly and serve hot. When possible, make 
broth the day before using, that it may be thoroughly cooled 
and the fat removed easily. Eeheat in a double boiler. The 
rice may be cooked, and rubbed through strainer before add- 
ing to broth, or it may be omitted if desired. An old fowl, 
not too fat, is best for broth. 

VEAL BROTH 

Prepared same as Chicken Broth (use cut from loin or 
knuckle of veal). 

CLAM BROTH NO. I 

Take five clams, wash and scrub well and put in saucepan 
with cold water to cover. Cook until shells open, remove 
from pan and take out clams. Chop and put them back into 
broth. Cook fifteen minutes. Strain through muslin; serve 
hot. If too strong flavor, add hot water. 

Note. — If made in large quantity, use two or three clams 
to one cup water. 

This broth may be frozen to the consistency of a frapp6. 

CLAM BROTH NO. 11 

l^ cup clam broth. Pepper. 

1 cup water or milk. 14 teaspoon butter. 

Blend the clam broth and water (or milk), and heat to the 
boiling point. Season with salt to taste, and if allowed, a 
little pepper and the butter. Serve hot in dainty cups. 



MEAT JELLIES 221 

EGO BROTH 

If one cannot conveniently get protein from meat, a very 
nutritious broth may be made by means of hot water into 
which an egg has been stirred. Heat three tablespoons of 
water to not above 149 degrees Fahrenheit (below the sim- 
mering point), and pour it gradually into a raw egg. The 
liquid is milky if the yolk is used; clear if only the white is 
used. It has little taste, which is an advantage with many 
patients ; or it may be flavored with beef extract. 

EGO BROTH NO. II 

1 cup hot beef broth. 14 teaspoon salt. 

1 egg- 
Beat the white and yolk of egg separately. To the yolk 
add gradually the hot broth, stirring continually. Add the 
salt and fold in the well-beaten white. Eeheat in double 
boiler, taking care not to coagulate the albumin. Serve very 
hot. 

Note. — The white or yolk of egg may be used separately. 

1CEAT JELLIES 

CALP'S POOT JELLY 

100 grams = 65 Calories. 

1 calf's foot. Rind of i/i lemon (yellow part 
1 quart cold water. only). 

3 cups sherry wine (best Topaz). 14 cup cut or cube sugar. 
Juice of one lemon. 

Clean calf's foot and put into the cold water ; bring slowly 
to boiling point, and boil five hours ; skim if necessary, while 
cooking. Strain through cheese-cloth and allow it to stand 
until firm and remove the fat. 

Mix lemon juice, wine, the whites and shells of eggs, sugar, 
and beat all together until the sugar is dissolved, then add to 
the jelly. Place on the fire in an enamel stewpan, and stir 
constantly until the mixture is very hot, but not boiling; 
strain through a jelly bag, made of cotton flannel, and allow 



222 ANIMAL FOODS 

the jelly to drip through same slowly, pour into molds or 
glass jars, and put in cold place to harden. 

Note. — Several varieties may be made by substituting the 
different flavors, brandy, rum, port wine, champagne, orange 
and lemon juice. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

3 pounds chicken. 8 peppercorns. 

1 quart cold water. Salt. 

Prepare chicken as for chicken broth and cut flesh and 
bone into small pieces. Put into saucepan with cold water 
and peppercorns and let stand one-half hour. Bring slowly 
to the boiling point, remove scum and cook five or six hours 
or until meat is very tender and water is reduced to one pint, 
while cooking keep it below the boiling point. Skim fre- 
quently while cooking, strain through double thickness of 
cheese-cloth, season to taste and let stand until firm. Ee- 
move fat, reheat and turn into glass fruit jars or individual 
molds and cool ; put in ice box until jellied. 

Additional flavor may be added if desired, a stalk of celery 
or a small piece of bay leaf may be cooked with the chicken. 

Note. — Mutton Broth Jelly may be treated in the same 

way. 

BEEF JELLY 

3 pounds solid meat from the 4 quarts cold water. 

shoulder or shin. 2 teaspoons salt. 

3 pounds bone from same. 

Take off the dried skin and any soft or bloody portion. 
Cut the meat into small pieces and put it with the cracked 
bone into an earthen jar. Cover with the cold water. Set. 
in slow oven and cook from eight to twelve hours. Strain 
through a colander. Add salt to taste; cool quickly. When 
cold remove the fat. Serve cold as a jelly, or reheat in 
double boiler. 



SOUP 223 

SOTTF AND SOTTF ACCOUFANIMENTS 

Soup is a light and suitable form of food for the sick. 
There are two classes — those made with meat and those 
without meat. 

The soups with meat are an infusion of meat> flavored with 
salt and some condiment. They are treated in the chaptei: 
on broths. 

The foundations of soups without meat are milk, vegetables 
and water. They are dainty and nutritious, and an excellent 
way of serving milk and the starch and mineral matter of the 
vegetable. 

They may be served as a luncheon, with crisp crackers, or as 
the first course of a dinner. Serve daintily in heated bouillon 
cups, partly filled, on small plate and doily. 

Oeneral Rule for blending: 

(a) Prepare vegetables, cook and strain. 

(6) Prepare cream sauce: Melt butter, add the flour and 
gradually pour on the scalded milk or water. Cook thor- 
oughly. 

(c) Blend (a) and (&). Season, strain and serve imme- 
diately. 

In the preparation of these soups great care must be taken 
that the starch. of the vegetable and of the flour used in the 
thickening is thoroughly cooked. Cooking temperature of 
starch is 212 degrees Fahrenheit. 

CBEAH OF ASPABAaiTS SOUP, 313 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% bundle asparagus. % tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt. 

14 tablespoon butter. Pepper. 

(a) Wash the asparagus and cook in boiling salted water, 
boiling gently thirty minutes. Take from the water, cut off 
the tips and put them into the serving dish; press the re- 
mainder through a colander. 

(h) Scald the milk. Melt the butter, add the flour and 



224: ANIMAL FOODS 

pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stir- 
ring often. 

Blend (a) and (b) ; reheat, season to taste, strain over tips 
and serve at once with crisped wafer crackers. 

Note.-^ For individual quantity use one-half recipe. 

ASPARAaiTS SOUP (FOB THE DIABETIC), 30 CALOBIES 

• One-half pint of veal stock or water, boiled with five or six 
stalks of asparagus. Beserve tips; mash and strain. Melt 
together one-half teaspoonful of butter with one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Gum Gluten Flour. Add stock and asparagus tips, and 
serve at once. 

CBEAM OF COBN SOUP, 493 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

% cup corn. 1 cup milk. 

% cup cold water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

^4 slice onion. 1 tablespoon butter. 

Salt. Yolk 1 egg. 
Pepper. 

(a) Chop corn, add water and simmer twenty minutes; 
rub through a sieve. 

(6) Scald milk with onion; remove onion. Melt butter, 
add flour and gradually pour on milk. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; cook thoroughly, season to taste with 
salt and pepper and pour onto the beaten yolk. When well 
blended, serve hot. 

Note. — The yolk of egg may be omitted. 

CBEAK OF CEIEBY SOUP, 330 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

4 stalks celery. 1 tablespoon butter. 

^ cup boiling water. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Salt. 1 cup rich milk. 
Pepper. 

(a) Wash and scrape the celery and cut into small pieces, 
add the water and cook until very tender and soft. Benew 
the water if it boils away. Mash the celery in the water in 
which it was cooked. 



SOUP 225 

(6) Scald milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add flour 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Cook thoroughly, 
stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; season to taste; strain and serve im- 
mediately with croutons or crisped crackers. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 226 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

6 stalks celery. Speck cayenne pepper, salt. 

1 slice onion. ^ teaspoon butter. 

1 cup water. % teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour, 
1 cup hot milk. 

Boil, mash and strain the first three ingredients, add the 
hot milk or cream. Melt the butter, add the flour and pour 
on gradually the hot soup stock ; season and cook thoroughly. 

CREAK OF PEA SOUP, 215 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% can peas. l^ cup milk. 

^ teaspoon sugar. % tablespoon butter. 

Vs cup cold water. % tablespoon flour. 
Salt and pepper. 

{a) Drain peas from their liquor, rinse thoroughly, add 
sugar and cold water and simmer twenty minutes. Eub 
through a sieve ; reheat. 

(&) Scald milk. Melt butter, add flour and pour on grad- 
ually the scalding milk. Cook thoroughly, stirring carefully. 

Note. — Peas that are too old to serve as a vegetable may 
be used for soup. One-half slice onion may be cooked in the 
milk. 

CREAK OF ONION SOUP, 297 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 onion. % tablespoon butter 

1 cup milk. % tablespoon flour. 

Cut onion in small pieces and scald in milk. Melt butter, 
add flour and add gradually the milk mixture. Season with 
salt and pepper and strain. 



226 ANIMAL FOODS 

ONION SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 30 CALORIES 

One Bermuda or three green onions boiled until tender in 
stock or water; mash and strain. Add one-half teaspoon Gum 
Gluten Flour, one-half teaspoonf ul butter and a little chopped 
parsley. One tablespoon of cream, if desired. 

CREAM OP POTATO 60TTP, 220 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. % tablespoon flour 

l^ slice onion. % teaspoon salt. 

l^ cup mashed potatoes. Pepper. 
y^ tablespoon butter. 

(a) Scald milk with onion in it, remove onion and add milk 
slowly to potatoes. (6) Melt butter, add flour and pour on 
gradually the hot mixture. Cook thoroughly and season to 
taste. A little celery salt may be added if desired. A little 
finely-chopped parsley may be sprinkled over top of soup. 

CREAK OP RICE SOUP, 302 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon rice. Stalk celery. 

1 cup milk. % bay leaf. 

% tablespoon butter. Salt. 

% small onion. Pepper. 

Scald the milk, add the well-washed rice and cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes, covered closely. 

Melt butter in saute pan, add the sliced onion and cook till 
tender, but not brown. Add celery sliced, and turn into 
scalded milk; add the bay leaf, cover and let stand on back 
of stove fifteen minutes. Strain, season with salt and pepper, 
reheat and serve. 

Note. — If soup is too thick, add a little heated milk. 

TOMATO SOTTP (WITH BROTH), 110 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup strained tomatoes. 1 cup water or stock. 

% tablespoon butter. l^ teaspoon salt. 

Yz slice onion. Speck pepper. 
1 tablespoon flour. 



SOUP 227 

(a) Cook and strain tomatoes, obtaining one-half cup 
jniee. 

(6) Melt butter, add the onion and brown slightly; add 
the flour ; pour on gradually the boiling water or stock. 

Blend (a) and (6) ; cook thoroughly, season with salt and 
pepper, strain and serve. 

Note. — Two tablespoons of cream may be added. 

Beef or mutton broth strained may be used in place of 
water if desired. 

CREAK OF TOXATO SOUP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 824 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

V2 cup tomatoes. ^ teaspoon butter. 

1 slice onion. *^ teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 cup milk. Salt, pepper. 

Stew and strain the tomatoes and onion, reheat and add 
a tiny pinch of soda. When effervescing subsides add milk. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and pour in gradually the hot 
stock. Season and cook thoroughly. 

HOCK BISaiTE SOUP, 324 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup tomatoes. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% saltspoon .soda. % tablespoons flour or corn- 
Salt and pepper. starch. 
1 cup milk. 

(a) Steam tomatoes until soft enough to strain juice; 
strain, add soda and allow gases to pass off. This prevents 
the acid of the tomato curdling the milk. 

(6) Scald milk ; melt butter in quart size saucepan, add the 
flour and pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cook thor- 
oughly, stirring carefully. 

Blend (a) and (&) ; reheat, season to taste, strain and 
serve immediately with croutons or crackers. 

DRIED FRTTIT SOUP, 209 CALORIES 1 

14 cup dried apricots. 1 cup cold water. 

y^ cup prunes. Sugar to taste. 

» Without sugar. 



22S ANIMAL FOODS 

Pick over and wash fruit until perfectly clean. Cook in 
the water until very soft. Strain and squeeze out all the 
juice ; sweeten to taste. Thicken if liked. 

Thickening. — 1 slightly rounding teaspoon rice flour to 
1 cup liquid. Cook twenty minutes to remove raw taste of 
starch. 

PANOPEPTON BOTTILLON — HOT, 30 CALORIES 

Put one tablespoonful of Panopepton into a small teacup; 
fill the cup nearly full of boiling water, and flavor to taste 
with celery salt, or plain salt and pepper ; stir, and sip slowly. 
This is a very nourishing and pleasantly stimulating drink. 

VICTORIA SOUP (WITH BROTH), 619 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

l^ cup lean chicken meat. 1 cup rich milk. 

1 cup strong chicken broth. ^4 cup cracker crumbs. 

% teaspoon salt. Yolks 2 eggs. 

Pepper. 

Soak the crumbs in a little of the milk. Cook yolks of 
eggs in hot water until hard. Chop the chicken, mix with the 
soaked cracker crumbs, press the hard-cooked yolks through 
a coarse strainer, add the seasonings and the broth and cook 
all together five minutes over direct heat or one-half hour in 
double boiler. Serve hot. 

CONSOHME 

Make a beef or any broth according to the strength re- 
quired. While cooking skim frequently, and when reduced 
to one-third of its quantity take from saucepan and strain; 
season well, cool quickly and remove fat. Eeturn to sauce- 
pan, add a few thin slices of onion and one-half pound of 
lean beef chopped fine and clear. 

To Char Soup. To each quart of stock add the slightly 
beaten white and broken shell of one egg and a few shavings 
of lemon rind. Place on front of range, and stir constantly 
until boiling point is reached; boil two minutes. Set back 
where it may simmer twenty minutes ; remove scum and strain 
through double thickness of cheese-cloth. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS 22^ 

Note. — To increase the nutrient value and improve flavor^ 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be added to any stock. Its com- 
plete solubility and concentration have caused it to be recom* 
mended most highly for this purpose. 

OYSTER SOUP 

See chapter " Oysters '^ for recipe. Pages 171-172. 

OYSTER STEW 

See " Oysters " for recipe. Page 172. 

CLAH SOTTP 

See chapter " Clams ^^ for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAH BOUILLON 

See chapter " Clams ^^ for recipe. Page 174. 

CLAX BOUILLON BISQUE 

See chapter " Clams ^' for recipe. Page 175. 

MEAT SOUPS 

Foundation for same, see chapter " Broths.^^ Page 219. 

SOTTP ACCOUFANIICENTS 

GLUTEN BISCUIT CRISPS 
1 = 25 Calories. 

Serve plain or butter slightly and bake until heated through. 

CRISPED CRACKERS 
1 Saltine=3l5 Calories. 

Split common crackers or use saltines. Put in pan and 
bake until thoroughly heated. Serve plain or buttered 
slightly. 

TOASTED CRACEIERS 

Butter crackers, put in pan and bake until a delicate brown. 
Serve on small plate with doily. 



230 ANIMAL FOODS 

CROUTONS ' 

1 ounce (1 slice) bread = 73 Calories. 

Take a slice of stale bread about half an inch thick, cut 
into half -inch cubes ; put them in a shallow pan and dry thor- 
oughly, then brown delicately. Stir often to brown evenly. 
Serve on small plate with doily. A little butter may be 
spread on the bread if desired. 

EDTTCATOR CRACKERS 

Serve plain or butter slightly and bake until well heated. 

NOODLES FOR SOTTP (FOR THE DIABETIC), 596 CALORIES 

1 egg, 5 ounces Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat the egg very light, add the milk and Gum Gluten. 
Eoll very thin and cut in straws. Cook in any soup. 

GLUTEN CRISP (FOR THE DIABETIC) 

See chapter " Toast ^^ for recipe. Page 256 



CHAPTER X 
VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

The important food products derived from the vegetable 
kingdom are the Cereals, Legumes — Eoots and Tubers — 
Green Vegetables — Fruits — Nuts — Fungi — Lichens. 

Composition. Vegetable or plant foods contain the five 
proximate principles, namely, proteins, fats, carbohydrates, 
water and mineral matter. In this they resemble animal 
foods. The food principles in the two classes are, however, 
in different proportions, animal foods being rich in proteins 
or fats, and seldom containing carbohydrate in appreciable 
amounts; while vegetable foods are, as a rule, rich in carbo- 
hydrates, and poor in proteins and fats. 

These diflferences are clearly shown in the following table : 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 
7o % % 
Lean round of beef. Free from all vis- 
ible fat 23.2 2.5 

Lean round of beef. Very fat 16.1 23.1 .... 

Wheat flour (entire wheat) 13.8 1.9 71.9 

Potatoes 1.8 0.1 14.7 

Apples 1.6 2.2 66.1 

The legumes and most nuts are exceptional in containing 

high percentages of protein or fat or both, but unlike meats, 

they also contain a very considerable amount of carbohydrate, 

as shown by the following analyses : 

Pro. Fat. Carb. 

% % % 

Beans, dried 22.5 1.8 59.6 

Peas 24.6 1.0 62.0 

Almonds : 21.0 64.9 17.3 

Walnuts 16.6 63.4 16.1 

231 



232 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Protein?- (1) Gluten of wheat and some of the other 
cereals. 

(2) Legumin found in legumes. 

(3) Vegetable albumin as found in some vegetables. 
Carbohydrates of Vegetables ^ include — starch, sugar, veg- 
etable gums and cellulose. 

Fats of Vegetables ^ are in the form of oils and are similar 
in composition to animal fats, but are more easily digested 
and equal in nutritive value. 

Water, Dry vegetable foods, such as cereals, dried beans 
and peas, nuts, dried fruits, etc., do not, as a rule, contain 
as much water as animal foods, but fresh vegetables and fruits 
contain frequently from 90 per cent, to 95 per cent, of water. 

This gives them a low nutritive value compared with their 
bulk. In cooking, water is added to most dry vegetable foods, 
so that when served they resemble fresh or succulent vegetable 
foods in this respect. 

Mineral Matter,^ All vegetable foods contain valuable ash 
constituents. In cereals, these are largely in the outer part 
of the grain, and are lost if the entire grain is not utilized. 
Thus polished rice is much poorer in ash constituents than 
unpolished; and white flour than entire wheat flour. Fresh 
vegetables and fruits are desirable in the dietary for their 
salts and organic acids. 

Digestibility. Vegetable foods are less easily digested than 
animal foods, owing to their complex composition, and espe- 
cially to the intimate mixture of the nutrients with cellulose. 
This prevents the digestive ferments acting readily upon the 
food-stuffs so that they are digested more slowly and less com- 
pletely than animal foods. Although cellulose is indigestible, 
its presence under normal conditions in proper amounts, is 
advantageous,'^ but it should be thoroughly softened by cook- 
ing, except in the case of tender young vegetables such as 
lettuce. 

* Protein, see p. 10. 

* Carbohydrates, see p. 16. 
*Fats of vegetables, see p. 20. 
^Mineral matter, see p. 81. 
«See p. 17. 



CEREALS 233 

Comparative Value of Animal and Vegetable Diets. An 
animal diet is concentrated and easily digested. If the ani- 
mal foods taken are eggs and milk, no serious objection can 
be urged against them, except that they lack bulk. The food 
is so fully absorbed that the large intestine has no stimulus 
to action and no material for its muscles to act upon, and 
serious complications are likely to arise from constipation. 
If the animal food is largely meat, it is undesirable, not only 
for the reason above mentioned, but because excessive quan- 
tities of nitrogenous extractives are taken, which are likely 
to cause uric acid disorders and other disturbances, and also 
because important mineral salts are lacking (such as calcium, 
which carnivorous animals get by eating hone) ; and because 
the acids formed from the protein (phosphoric and sulphuric) 
tend to deprive the body of salts already present in the tissues. 

A strict vegetable diet, on the other hand, while free from 
these objections, is necessarily very bulky, owing to the high 
percentages of water and cellulose, and to the fact that extra 
allowance must be made because it is less perfectly absorbed. 
Unless special care is taken, a vegetable diet is also likely to 
be low in protein. Legumes and nuts must form a consid- 
erable part of the dietary to provide this. When eggs, milk 
and milk products are added to the vegetable foods, the diet 
becomes mixed, and these objections no longer hold. 

An Ideal Diet contains a mixture of animal and vegetable 
foods, so that protein, fat, carbohydrate and mineral matter 
are supplied in proper proportions and in available forms, and 
sufficient bulk is afforded for proper intestinal action. 

CEEEALS 

ORUEIOS — BREAKFAST POODS — STARCHY JELLIES — HACA- 

RONI 

Wherever it is possible to grow grains, they are staples of 
man's diet. No food products of the vegetable kingdom equal 
them in importance. They are cheaply and easily grown, and 
contain all the food principles in unusually good proportion. 



234 VEGETABLE OR J^LANT FOODS 

They can be kept for long periods, are not difficult to cook, 
and furnish a palatable and digestible article of diet. Cereals 
alone supply nearly one-fourth of the total food in a large 
number of the American families. Wheat, corn, rye, oats, 
barley, rice and buckwheat are in commonest use. 

The natural grain is surrounded by an indigestible husk 
which is always removed. Grains simply hulled or husked, 
and slightly crushed are called groats or grits; more finely 
crushed, they constitute meal ; ground to a powder and sifted 
they form flour. 

Composition. Cereals contain all the food principles, with 
considerable cellulose, especially in the outer skin, which forms 
bran in milling. They are comparatively dry materials, hav- 
ing an average water content of about 10 per cent. The pro- 
tein content is fairly high, averaging 12 per cent.-13 per cent.^ 
The fat is never large in amount, and varies within wide 
limits, being greatest in corn and oats and their products, and 
lowest in rice. 

The nutrients in largest proportion are the carbohydrates, 
which frequently constitute 75 per cent, of the whole. The 
ash content is as large as in most common food materials, and 
some of the grains, as oats and wheat, are especially valuable 
for their soluble phosphates of calcium, potassium, magne- 
sium, etc. 

The chemical composition of some of the most common 
cereals is shown in the following table : 

Carbohydrates 
Water Protein Fat Starch, etc. Crude Fiber Ash 

Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent. Per Cent, 

Barley 10.9 12.4 1.8 69.8 2.7 2.4 

Corn (maize) ... 9.3 9.9 2.8 74.9 1.4 1.5 

Oats 11.0 11.8 5.0 59.7 9.5 3.0 

Rice 12.4 7.4 0.4 79.2 0.2 0.4 

Wheat (spring) ..10.4 12.5 2.2 71.2 1.8 1.9 

It will be seen that corn is relatively rich in fat; oats in 
both protein and fat; rye and wheat in protein with a mod- 
erate amount of fat; rice is notably free from crude fiber 
and fat, and also very low in ash. 

^For further information, see "Cereal Breakfast Foods,** Farmer's Bulle- 
tin No. 249, Agricultural Dept., Washington, D. C. 



CEREALS 235 

Cereal Breakfast Foods are very similar in composition to 
the grains from which they are made. 

Macaroni is much like wheat breakfast foods in composition 
and food value. 

Principles in Cooking, Cooking improves cereals in many 
ways. For the average person, proper cooking has almost as 
much to do with the nutriment finally obtained as the pro- 
portions of nutrients originally present. Flavor and appear- 
ance are improved, with the gain in digestibility that comes 
from appetizing foods which stimulate the flow of digestive 
juices. Cooking to convert nutrients into more digestible 
forms, is very important in the case of cereals which contain 
so much starch; and since the starch in these foods is sur- 
rounded by cell-walls of crude fiber (largely cellulose) upon 
which the digestive juices are unable to act, these walls must 
be broken down. Part of this disintegration may be accom- 
plished in milling, and part by thorough mastication but com- 
plete digestion of the starch is assured only by thorough 
cooking. 

Parching is one of the simplest methods of cooking grains. 
The invisible moisture in the cells is expanded by the heat, 
and the cell walls burst. Some of the starch is also made 
soluble or changed to dextrin by this process. The digestibil- 
ity of protein seems to be lessened by cooking at high tem- 
peratures, but the starch can be made almost perfectly di- 
gestible. 

The softening of cellulose is more perfectly accomplished 
by cooking for a long time in the presence of a large amount 
of moisture, as in steaming, or cooking with water or milk 
in a double boiler. The glutinous material which surrounds 
the starch grains and prevents their digestion is disintegrated 
so thart the digestive juices can act. In general, the more 
crude fiber a cereal contains, the longer it should be cooked. 
Reference to the table (p. 234) shows that oats requires 
more cooking than rice; whole or partially crushed grains 
than finely ground ones. There is danger in undercooked 
cereals, not only of loss of valuable nutriment through failure 



336 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

of digestion, but in irritation of the alimentary tract. This 
sliould be especially remembered in preparing partially cooked 
breakfast foods. 

When cereals are cooked in water some of it is absorbed, 
and soluble substances in the food pass into the remaining 
water. If this is thrown away, as when rice is boiled in a 
large quantity of water and subsequently drained dry, a con- 
siderable part of the nutriment is lost. Eice water frequently 
contains enough dissolved starch to form a jelly on cooling. 
For this reason steaming is a preferable method. Practical 
application of the fact that certain nutrients in cereals are 
soluble is made in the preparation of all kinds of cereal 
waters and starchy jellies. (See Eecipes, pp. 124-244.) 

Gruels are thin porridges made from flour or other finely 
ground grain products, with either water or milk. They are 
cooked for a long time to insure the starch being changed to 
soluble starch, or even partially dextrinized. Time for cook- 
ing should therefore be conscientiously kept by the clock. 

By passing the material through a cheese-cloth or sieve, the 
coarser, undissolved portions are removed, and the smooth 
product does not irritate weakened digestive organs; hence 
this method is desirable for invalids and young children. 

In cooking all cereal products, the following points should 
be observed: 

Use a double boiler. 

Observe carefully the correct proportions of cereal, water 
and salt. 

Cook at boiling temperature (212** P.). 

Watch the time by the clock, and always cook the full time 
prescribed, preferably longer. 

Serve attractively. 

Improper cooking and poor serving are largely responsible 
for unpopularity of cereal foods. 

Digestibility. The digestibility of cereals is greatly in- 
fluenced by the mode of preparation and the thoroughness of 
insalivation. For the normal healthy person cereal foods are 
yery wholesome. In general, about 90 per cent, or more of 



CEREALS 237 

the organic matter is assimilated. The carbohydrates are 
most completely digested; the protein shows a wide variation, 
but is less perfectly assimilated than the other nutrients, 
owing partly to the fact that it is often hardened in cooking 
and partly that it is intimately bound up with cellulose in 
the bran coats. For this reason white flour shows a higher 
degree of digestibility for protein, than do whole wheat prepa- 
rations. 

Among cereal breakfast foods, rolled wheat ranks first in 
digestibility, rolled oats next, and corn preperations among 
the lowest. The partially digested or ready-to-eat cereals 
supply more digestible material than the plain 'grains when 
well cooked. 

Nutritive Value. Cereals supply actual digestible nutri- 
ments to the body more cheaply than any other class of foods 
except the dried legumes. All animal foods, especially meats, 
are more expensive, even as sources of protein, than cereals. 
A glance at their composition shows that they are chiefly fuel 
foods, because of their high carbohydrate content. Their 
cost varies with the cost of labor and fuel in preparing the 
food. The comparatively expensive ready-to-eat breakfast 
foods do not yield any extra nutritive value. Their only ad- 
vantages are pleasant flavor and ease of serving. Cereal 
products yield on the average between 1600 and 1700 calories 
per pound. Thus: 

1 lb. flour furnishes 1665 calories. 

1 lb. entire wheat flour furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. com meal furnishes 1655 calories. 

1 lb. cornstarch furnishes 1675 calories. 

1 lb. wheatlet furnishes 1685 calories. 

1 lb. hominy furnishes 1650 calories. 

1 lb. granulated com meal furnishes 1665 calories. 

1 lb. wheat germ furnishes 1695 calories. 

1 lb. tapioca furnishes 1650 calories. 

Care of Cereals. Cereals must be kept in a cool, dry place ; 
warmth will favor the development of the maggot eggs; and 
moisture, when absorbed, makes them musty. 



238 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 



OBTJEIS 

ABBOWBOOT OBUEL, 206 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons arrowroot. 1 cup boiling water or milk. 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

Sugar, lemon juice, wine or brandy as required. 

Blend the arrowroot and cold water to a smooth paste. 
Add to the boiling water or milk. Cook in double boiler two 
hours. Add salt. Strain and serve hot. 

Arrowroot is the purest form of starch, and beneficial in 
case of diarrhoea if not given too hot. 

BABLET OBUEL, 248 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. 1 cup scalded milk. 

2 tablespoons cold milk. Salt. 

Blend the barley flour with the cold milk and stir into 
the scalding milk. Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 
Season with salt to taste, and add sugar if desired. Strain. 

BABLET OBXJEL OB JELLT, 142 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon barley flour. V^ cup milk (if desired). 

2 tablespoons cold water. Salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Blend carefully the barley flour and the cold water; add 
gradually to the boiling water and cook twenty minutes. Add 
milk and salt to taste, reheat to boiling point, strain and 
serve or bottle for keeping. 

Note. — For jelly omit the milk and strain. 

BICE OB OAT GBVEL 

Eice or oat gruel may be made in same way as Barley 
Gruel No. I or II, using the prepared flour for the purpose. 

BABLEY OBTJEL (WITH BBOTH), 308 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 cups beef broth. 2 tablespoons cold water. 
2 tablespoons barley flour. 1 saltspoon salt. 

^ Calculated with milk. 



GRUELS 239 

Mix barley flour and salt with the cold water to form a 
smooth paste. Add gradually to the boiling stock and boil 
one-half hour. Strain and serve very hot. 

CBACKEB OBVEL, 243 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons sifted cracker 1 cup scalded milk. 

crumbs. 
% teaspoon salt. 

Pour hot milk gradually onto cracker crumbs, stirring con- 
stantly. Cook in double boiler five minutes or two minutes 
over direct heat. 

Note. — Before preparing crumbs, crackers may be baked 
in a slow oven until a delicate brown; or graham crackers 
may be used. A convenient way to prepare the crumbs is to 
put them several times through a meat chopper and then sift. 

IXOTTB GBVEL OB THICKENED MILE, 212 CAL0BIE8 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup scalded milk. Speck salt. 

l^ cup cold milk. 1 dozen raisins. 

Yg tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with the cold milk to make 
a smooth mixture, and stir into the scalding milk. Cook in 
a double boiler one-half hour or on back of stove in a sauce- 
pan. 

Stone and quarter the raisins, then add water enough to 
cover; cook slowly until water has all boiled away. Add to 
gruel just before serving. Add salt. Strain and serve, or it 
may be eaten with the raisins in it. 

Note. — This gruel may be made without the raisins. 
Never use raisins in bowel troubles. 

7ABINA GBUEL, 102 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% tablespoon farina. Ys cup scalded milk. 

% cup cold water. Salt. 

Yz cup boiling water. 



240 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Mix the farina with the cold water, add to the boiling 
water and boil thirty minutes. Add the scalding milk. 
Taste and season properly. A little sugar may be added if 
desired, or an egg may be beaten and the gruel poured into it. 

OLTTTEK OBTTZL OB POBBIBOE (70K THE DIABETIC), 185 CAL- 

OBIESi 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 tablespoon Gum Gluten Four. 1 cup hot water or milk. 
1 tablespoon cold water. Salt. 

Add cold water slowly to Gluten Flour to form a thin 
paste, then add gradually to boiling water, while stirring con- 
stantly; cook fifteen minutes. Season with salt. Is an ex- 
cellent food for the sick ; for baby food it may be sweetened. 

INDIAN XEAL OBUEL, 48 CALOBIES 2 

1 tablespoon Indian meal. 2 tablespoons cold water. 

y^ tablespoon flour. 2 cups boiling water. 

% teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Blend the meal, flour and salt with the cold water to make 
a smooth paste, and stir into the boiling water. Boil gently 
one hour and a half. Dilute with hot water, milk or cream. 
Strain. 

OATXEAL OBVEL NO. I, 70 CALOBIES 2 

^ cup coarse oatmeal. 1^/^ cup boiling water. 

y^ teaspoon salt. Milk or cream. 

Add oatmeal and salt to the boiling water, and cook four to 
five hours in a double boiler, adding more water if necessary. 
Strain and dilute with hot milk to make it of the right con- 
sistency. Eeheat and serve. 

Note. — Sugar, and a little port wine may be added if al- 
lowed and desired. 

1 Calculated with milk. 
'Without milk or cream. 



GRUELS 241 

OATXEAL GBXJEL, NO. H, 70 CALOBIES i 

V4 cup rolled oats. l^ teaspoon salt. 

lYs cup boiling water. Milk or cream. 

Mix the oats, water and salt in top of double boiler. Cook 
over direct heat five minutes and then over hot water one 
hour. Strain, bring to the boiling point and add milk or 
cream as desired. 

OATMEAL GBXJEL NO. in, 140 CALOBIES 1 

^ cup coarse oatmeal. Salt. 

2 cups water. 3iilk. 

Pound the oatmeal in a mortar until it is mealy, then put 
it into a tumbler and fill it with cold water. Stir, and pour 
off the mealy water into a saucepan. Fill tumbler again, stir 
and pour off, and repeat until the above quantity of water is 
exhausted. Boil the oatmeal water thirty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Season with salt to taste. Thin with milk or 
cream to desired consistency, 

EGG AND SHEBBT OBTTEL, 388 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 egg, 1 tablespoon sugar, 

1 wineglass sherry. ' Grating of nutmeg. 

1 teaspoon lemon juice. 1 cup smooth hot gruel. 

Beat the egg; add wine, lemon, nutmeg and pour on the 
hot gruel. 

CAtTDLE, 404 CALOBIES 2 
V4 cup Scotch oatmeal. Juice ^ lemon. 

2 quarts water. Sugar, cinnamon, brandy, or 
Salt to taste. wine. 

^ cup raisins. 

Boil oatmeal, water and salt four or five hours. Strain; 
if too thick add a little hot water and whip it with a wooden 
spoon. Remove seeds from raisins, cook a short time in hot 
water, and add raisins and water to above. Add lemon juice, 
and sugar, cinnamon, brandy or wine to taste. 

1 Without milk or cream. 
' Without BUgsr or liquor. 



242 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

TLOITR BAIL OB BOILED OB BBOWNEB FLOTJB OBXJEL (FOB 

TEBTHINa CHILDBEN) 

Tie one cup of wheat flour in a thick cloth, and boil it in 
one quart of water for three hours ; remove the cloth and ex- 
pose the flour to the air, or heat until it is hard. Grate from 
it when wanted. Put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
new milk, and stir over the fire until it comes to a boil; add 
a pinch of salt and a tablespoon of cold water, and serve. 
This gruel is excellent for children aflBicted with summer com- 
plaint. Or brown a tablespoon of flour in the oven, or on 
top of the stove in a bakipg tin ; feed a few pinches at a time 
to a child, and it will often check diarrhoea. 

BBEAKFAST FOODS 

Fruits served with breakfast foods make them more ap- 
petizing. 

Follow directions on package for preparing patent or pre- 
pared cereals, allowing double the given time for cooking. 

HASTT PVDBINO OB COBNXEAL MTTSH, 182 CAIOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

y^ cup commeal. % cup cold milk or water. 

Yg tablespoon flour. % cup boiling water. 

^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix the meal, flour and salt with the cold milk or water ; 
when smooth, stir into the boiling water. Cook in a double 
boiler one hour or more; or over direct heat one-half hour. 
Serve with cream and sugar, turn into tins to cool if wanted 
for sauteing. Cut into slices, dip in flour and saute in drip- 
pings or butter. 

OLTTTEN BBEAKFAST 700B (FOB THE BIABETIC), 666 CAI- 
OBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

Yg cup Gum Gluten Breakfast 2 cups cold water. 
Food. Salt. 

Would suggest partly cooking the Breakfast Food the day 

^Calculated with milk. 



BREAKFAST FOODS 245 

before using, as a long cooking improves the quality. Put 
the food in the water and cook over direct heat for fifteen 
minutes, then put in double boiler and cook for about one 
hour, adding salt to taste when nearly done. It is then neces- 
sary to cook it but twenty minutes in the morning. Serve- 
with cream. 

HOIQHY XTTSH, 200 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ cup fine hominy. IV3 cups boiling water. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

Put all together in a double boiler and cook two hours. 
Add more water if mush seems stiff and thick; all prepara- 
tions of corn absorb a great deal of water in cooking, ancl 
hominy usually needs a little more than four times its bulk. 

Note. — Hominy is exceedingly indigestible unless well 
cooked, but sweet and nutritious when subjected to a high 
temperature for a long time. 

OATXEAL MTTSH FOB CHILBBEN AND INVALIDS, 880 CALOBIES 

(Four Servings.) 

1 cup granulated oatmeal. 1 scant quart boiling water. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the oatmeal and salt in a double boiler, pour on the 
boiling water and cook three or four hours. Eemove the 
cover just before serving, and stir with a fork to let the 
steam escape. If the water in the lower boiler be strongly 
salted, the oatmeal will cook more quickly. Serve with sugar 
or salt and cream or milk. 

Note. — Baked sour apples, apple sauce and apple jelly are 
delicious eaten with oatmeal. They should be served with the 
mush, and sugar and cream poured over the whole. They 
give the acid flavor which so many crave in the morning. 
Coarse oatmeal is not advisable in any form of water brash, 
acidity or bowel irritations. It often causes eruptions on the 
skin in warm weather. 

BOILED BICE 

See " Eice Puddings ^^ for recipe. Page 297. 



244 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

STEAMED BICE 

See " Eice Puddings " for recipe. Page 298. 

STABCHY JELLIES 

BABLET JELLT, 270 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

3 tablespoons pearl barley. ^ saltspoon salt. 
1 quart cold water. 

Soak barley over night, drain and add the quart of fresh 
water; add salt; and cook in double boiler steadily for four 
hours down to one pint, adding water from time to time; 
strain through muslin. When cold this makes a thick jelly. 
Two tablespoons dissolved in eight ounces of warmed and 
sweetened milk may be given at single feeding for infants. 

Note. — Oatmeal wheaten grits and rice grains may be used 
in same way. 

Jelly made with Barley Flour, see Barley Gruel, p. 238. 

BICE JELLT, 181 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

lYs tablespoons rice % cup milk. 

1 cup cold water. 1 white of egg» i 

Speck salt. 

Wash the rice and soak In cold water two hours, drain off 
-the water and add the milk, cook in double boiler one and one- 
lialf hours. Strain through a fine sieve. Pour into molds, 
chill and serve with fruit juice or cream and sugar. 

TAPIOCA JELLY, 200 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

4 tablespoons pearl tapioca. % cup boiling water. 
1 cup cold water. Speck salt. 

Soak tapioca in cold water three hours; add boiling 
water and salt; cook in double boiler two and one-fourth 
liours. Serve hot, plain with cream, wine and powdered 
sugar, or flavor while hot with lemon juice, and chill. 

COBNSTABCH JELLIES 

See " Cornstarch Pudding " for recipe. Page 295. 



MACARONI 245 

KACABONI 

BOILED ICACABONI, 98 CALOBIESi 

(Individual jRule.) 

l^ cup macaroni. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 cups boiling water. Cream or milk. 

Break macaroni into one-inch pieces, put into a strainer 
and rinse with cold water. Cook in boiling salted water 
twenty minutes, or until tender. Strain, pour a little cold 
water over it to prevent pieces from adhering; add cream, 
reheat and season with salt; or serve with White or Tomata 
Sauce and grated cheese. 

WHITE SATTCE, 162 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. l^ tablespoon flour, 

^2 tablespoon butter. l^ teaspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter, remove from stove and 
add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on gradually the 
hot milk, stirring constantly while blending. Cook thor- 
oughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season with 
salt. 

TOMATO SATTCE, 93 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Vz <2^P strained tomato juice. % tablespoon flour. 

^ tablespoon butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes. Melt the butter and remove from 
stove, add the flour and mix thoroughly, then pour on grad- 
ually the hot tomato, stirring constantly while blending ; cook 
thoroughly until there is no raw taste of starch and season 
with salt and pepper. 

BAKED XACABONI 

1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese = 62 Calories. 

Fill a buttered baking-dish with alternate layers of maca- 
roni. White Sauce and cheese; then cover with buttered 

^ Without milk or cream. 



^46 . VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

cracker crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 
Tomato Sauce may be substituted for White Sauce if desired- 

BTTTTEBEI) CBACKEB CBTTXBS, 201 CALOBIES 

1 tablespoon butter. % cup cracker crumbs. 

Melt butter and add cracker crumbs that have been rolled 
iine. To be used for the top of any scalloped dish. Cracker 
crumbs or bread crumbs may be used and bits of butter dotted 
over top. 

NOODLES (FOB THE DIABETIC), 596 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 eggf ^ell beaten. 5 ounces Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 tablespoon milk. 

Beat egg, add milk and gradually add the Gluten Flour. 
lioU out and cut in thin strips. Serve vrith any soup. 

BOILED NOODLES (FOB THE DIABETIC) 

Put the noodles into cold, salted water ; cook at least f orty- 
iive minutes after it comes to boil, or boil until it is tender. 
Season with pepper and butter. Serve with White Sauce, 

CBEAM OB WHITE SAXTCE (FOB THE DIABETIC), 130 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ cup milk. 1 teaspoon Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 teaspoon butter. 

Melt the butter without browning it, add the flour, then 
pour in the scalded milk gradually, stirring all the time. 
Cook five minutes. Season with salt and red pepper to taste. 
Elavor with onion, lemon juice or parsley if desired. Pour 
over vegetables very hot. 

NOODLES ATT OBATIN (FOB THE DIABETIC) 
1 tablespoon grated fresh cheese = 62 Calories. 

Boil the noodles as above. Place them in a baking-dish in 
alternate layers with grated cheese, having cheese form the 
top layer; season with pepper and butter. Pour over the 
mixture the water in which the noodles were cooked; or, if 
preferred, cream or stewed tomatoes may be used to moisten. 



BREAD 24r 



BBEAD 



From the most remote times, bread has been an important 
part of the diet of mankind. It is to-day probably more gen- 
erally and extensively used than any other one food-stuff, 
with the possible exception of milk. It is therefore extremely 
important to know what constitutes good bread and what are 
its nutritive properties. 

Composition. The ingredients of bread are very simple — 
flour, water, yeast and salt. Any cereal, cleaned, crushed and 
sifted to a powder, may serve as the flour, but wheat flour 
makes the most satisfactory bread, because its proteins in 
the form of gluten have more elasticity than those of other 
cereals. 

" Bread contains from 34 to 40 per cent, of water, and the 
remainder, about 60 per cent, at least, is nutritive material. 
It contains a large amount of carbohydrates, a moderate 
amount of protein, a small amount of mineral matter, and 
almost no fat. Owing to the excess of carbohydrates and 
deficiency of protein in wheat, bread could not serve alone 
for the proper nutritive of the body, because an amount of 
bread suflBcient to supply the requisite protein would furnish 
much more carbohydrates than necessary. In a mixed diet 
this discrepancy is of little importance, as it is supplied by 
the other protein foods eaten. Most methods of increasing 
the protein contents of bread have a tendency to increase 
the cost, but skim milk can be used in place of water in the 
mixing with little added expense, and it will add about 
per cent, increase as to protein.^^ ^ 

Digestibility and Nutritive Value, '^The nutritive value 
of bread depends, not only on its chemical composition, but 
also on its digestibility, and digestibility in its turn seems 
to depend largely on the lightness of the loaf. It is the 
gluten in. a dough which gives it the power of stretching 
and rising as the gas from the yeast expands within it, and 

^From Farmer's Bulletin No. 389, U. S. Dept. ef Agriculture, Washing- 
ton, D. O. For further information, read "Bread and Bread-Making, ' 
Farmer's Bulletin No. 889. 



248 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

hence of making a light loaf. Eye has less gluten proteids 
than wheat, while barley, oats and maize have none, so that 
they do not make a light, porous loaf like wheat. It is pos- 
sible that of the various kinds of wheat flour those con- 
taining a large part of the bran — entire wheat and graham 
flours — furnish the body with more mineral matter than 
flne white flour; but it is not certain that the extra amount 
of mineral matter furnished is of the same value as that from 
the interior of the grain. They do not yield more digestible 
protein than the white flours, as was for a time supposed. 
It seems safe to say that, as far as is known, for a given 
amount of money, white flour yields the most actual nourish- 
ment with the various food ingredients in good proportion. 

" It should be remembered, however, that all kinds of bread 
are wholesome if of good quality, and the use of several 
kinds is an easy means of securing variety in the diet.^' ^ As 
compared with most meats and vegetables, bread has prac- 
tically no waste, and is very completely digested. Pew foods 
yield so much energy for so little money. A diet of bread 
and milk can be perfectly balanced and will be tired of less 
easily than any other equally simple diet. 

All bread-stuifs should be eaten slowly and thoroughly 
masticated, in order that time may be given for the saliva 
to act upon the starch. For if the stomach is hampered with 
quantities of unchanged starch it cannot perform its work 
without effort. Fermentation results or the intestines have 
more than their share of work to do and rebel. If these foods 
were eaten slowly much of the resultant dyspepsia would be 
avoided. 

Gluten Bread. When, for any reason, persons are denied 
starch in the diet, as in diabetes, they find it a great priva- 
tion to do without bread, and many attempts have been made 
to provide an acceptable substitute. Sometimes bran is used, 
or inulin or Iceland moss, but none of these is nutritious. 
One of the best materials for this purpose is gluten flour. 

^From Farmer's Bulletin No. 389, TJ. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washing- 
ion. D. 0. 



BREAD 249 

It 18 prepared by washing the starch, wholly or in part, from 
wheat flour. The grayish, tough, elastic, sticky mass left 
after this process is largely gluten, and since gluten is a 
protein, it has been sometimes called " the lean meat of the 
vegetable kingdom/^ The washed gluten, dried and ground, 
is called gluten flour. 

It still contains considerable starch, so that it is necessary 
for the physician to know the exact composition of the brand 
employed, to insure good results. 

Gluten Standards. The necessity for a Standard for Gluten 
Plour is very apparent to chemists who have had occasion to 
analyze the various kinds on the market. For years millers 
have supplied dealers with middlings, entire wheat flour and 
mixtures containing bran to be sold as gluten flour. Igno- 
rant of those facts, physicians advise their patients to use 
gluten, but, of course, have invariably been disappointed in 
results. 
United States Standard for Gluten: 

" Gluten Flour is the product made from flour by the re- 
moval of starch, and contains not less than five and six- 
tenths (5.6) per cent, of Nitrogen, and not more than ten 
(10) per cent, of Moisture,^' 

Note. — Using the factor 6.25 usually employed by the U. 
S. Government chemists. Standard Gluten Flour must there- 
fore show at least thirty-five (35) per cent, protein. 

Bread-Making. The two practical methods of making 
bread are with yeast (fermented bread) and with cream of 
tartalr and bicarbonate of soda (unfermented bread). 

Fermented Bread. The raising or leavening of bread is 
usually brought about by allowing yeast to develop in it. 
Yeast is an exceedingly minute form of plant life, which, 
when given food, flour, moisture and warmth, grows j and 
by this growth produces carbon dioxide and alcohol. 

The carbon dioxide, in its effort to escape, puffs up the 
flour dough, but owing to the viscous nature of the gluten 
(the elastic, strength-giving substances of flour) it is caught 
and retained. 



250 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Each little bubble of gas occupies a certain space, and 
when the bread is baked the walls around these spaces harden 
and the result is a porous loaf. The alcohol escapes into the 
oven in the baking. 

To bake bread requires a hot oven. 

The bread should continue to rise for about fifteen min- 
utes after being placed in the oven, then the rising should 
cease and the loaf begin to brown. 

We bake bread to kill the yeast plant, to render the starch 
soluble, to expel the alcohol and carbon dioxide and to form 
a nice flavored crust. 

The making of good bread requires care and intelligence 
on the part of the cook. Use a good brand of flour, fresh 
yeast, remembering that yeast is a plant and must be put at 
a proper temperature to grow. Watch each process carefully. 

"Lightness and sweetness of bread depends as much on 
the way in which it is made as on the materials used. The 
greatest care should be used in preparing and baking the 
dough and in cooking and keeping the finished bread.^' 

Unfermented Bread. Carbon dioxide is obtained to lighten 
bread by causing cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda to 
unite chemically. 

To one part soda use two parts cream of tartar. When 
given moisture and heat carbon dioxide is obtained. 

Baking powder is a combination of the following in- 
gredients : 

Bicarbonate of soda 84 grammes to 

Cream of tartar 188 grammes 

Starch • 6 to 20 per cent. 

WHITE PLOUR BREAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) =73 Calories. 

1 pint hot milk (or water). 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk (or water). 1 Fleischmann*s yeast cake. 

1 tablespoon sugar. Flour. 

2 tablespoons butter or lard. 

Into mixing bowl put the scalded milk, add the butter; 
when melted add the sugar, salt and cold milk. Save one- 



BREAD 251 

lialf cup of this liquid, and when lukewarm soften the yeast 
in it and stand where it will keep warm. To above mixture 
add warmed sifted flour (sift twice before using) to make a 
thin batter, add softened yeast and more flour until stiflE 
enough to knead. Knead until light and spongy. Care 
should be taken not to add more flour than is absolutely neces- 
sary. Butter a large stone crock or bowl, place bread in it 
and cover. Let rise three and one-half hours at about 75 
degrees Fahrenheit (in a medium warm room). Then re- 
move from jar and knead about twenty minutes until smooth 
and velvety, put into pans, cover carefully and let rise one 
hour or until double its bulk. 

Bake in a hot oven from forty-five minutes to one hour, 
depending upon size of loaves. 

If hard crust is desired, remove from pans and cool in a 
draft of air. For soft crust, before bread cools .roll it in a 
clean cloth. 

This quantity will make three good sized loaves; one-half 
the amount may be used for one large loaf. 

ENTIBE WHEAT BREAD 
1 slice (1 oz.) =70 Calories. 

2 cups scalded milk. 2 yeast cakes dissolved in ^^ cup 

2 cups boiling water. lukewarm water. 

3 tablespoons butter. 2 cups white flour. 

3 tablespoons salt. Entire wheat flour enough to 

b tablespoons molasses. knead. 

Make as for wheat flour bread, and add molasses after the 
first rising. 

One-half of recipe may be used. 

WHOLE WHEAT OB OBAHAH BBEAB 

Make the same as wheat flour bread, adding two table- 
spoons of sugar or molasses. Make a batter with white flour, 
using three or four cups, then use whole wheat or graham 
flour. Let rise longer than for white bread, and put imme* 
diately into pans without second kneading. 

!N'ote. — Omit sweetening if desired. 



252 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

OLTTTEN BBEAD (FOB THE DIABETIC) 

1 slice (1 oz.)=71 Calories. 

Vz yeast cake. 3Vi cups Gum Gluten Flour. 

2 cups lukewarm water. )^ teaspoon salt. 

Soften the yeast in a small portion of the water and add 
to the ingredients. Mix to a stiff dough and knead thor- 
oughly, using more gluten if necessary to keep it from stick- 
ing to the board. Shape into a loaf, place in a buttered paa 
for about two and one-half hours to rise until the dough ia 
about twice its bulk. Then bake for forty-five minutes. If 
desired the dough may be given a second mixing after the 
first rising, letting it rise again before baking. 

Note. — Gum Gluten Bread may be made the same as ordi- 
nary wheat flour bread with the exception of shortening, 
which is not required. 

Avoid having the water too warm or the bread will be 
sticky ; the chill taken off is all that is necessary. 

If desired, one cup of nut meats cut in small pieces may be 
added to dough just before putting into pans. 

BBAN BBEAB 

EoUow rule for Gluten Bread, using one part of bran 
to four parts of Gluten Flour with one cup of moisture. If 
the bran is increased the moisture must be lessened. 

BOSTON BBOWN BBEAD, 2530 CALOBIES 

1 small slice (1 oz. ) =64 Calories. 

1 cup griinulated Indian meal. 2 cups sour milk. 

1 cup rye flour. 2 teaspoons soda. 

1 cup graham flour. % cup molasses. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

Mix dry ingredients (except soda) together; dissolve soda 
in sour milk and add, then, molasses. Pour into buttered tins 
and steam three or four hours. 

OLTTTEN BISCUIT (EOB THE DIABETIC), 950 CALOBIES i 

1 cup Gum Gluten Self-raising. 1 saltspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon butter. Milk or water. 

1 Without milk. 



BREAD 253 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, nib in the butter, add milk 
or water to make a soft dough. Boll and cut with biscuit 
cutter. Makes two large biscuits. 

OLTTTEN DBOP BISCUIT (FOB THE DIABETIC), 562 CAI.0BIE8 1 

1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. l^ teaspoon baking powder. 

1 teaspoon butter. Milk or water. 

Y2 teaspoon salt. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk 
or water to make a stiff batter. Drop from spoon into a 
buttered pan, and bake very quickly. Makes three. 

BBAN BISCUIT, 416 CALOBIES 1 

Yg cup wheat bran. 1 teaspoon melted butter. 

% cup improved graham flour. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon Kumford baking pow Milk, 
der. 

Sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter and add milk to 
make a soft dough. KoU it out and bake in hot oven. 

BAKINO POWBEB BISCUIT, 694 CAlOBIES 

1 cup flour. 1 tablespoon butter or beef drip- 

2 teaspoons Rumford baking ping* 

powder. ^ cup (scant) milk or water. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Sift dry ingredients twice, rub in the butter with tips of 
fingers; using knife, stir in gradually the liquid; mix as 
soft as can be handled; put dough on a well-floured board, 
pat lightly to one inch thickness, cut with biscuit cutter, 
put on a shallow buttered tin, heated, and bake in a hot oven. 
Put a little milk on top of each biscuit before baking to 
make them brown well. 

Note. — Dough may be lightly kneaded as for bread, and 
ihen cut. 

OLTTTEN HUEFINS (EOB THE DIABETIC), 755 CALOBIES 

1 cup Gum Gluten Self-raising. % teaspoon salt. 
1 cup milk, or part water. 1 egg. 

^Without milk. 



254 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Beat egg and add the milk. Sift the Gluten and salt and 
gradually add the liquid and beat thoroughly. Bake in hot 
buttered gem pans. 

BBAN HTTFFINS, 1850 CALOBIES 

2 cups bran. *4 cup butter. 

1 cup flour. 3 tablespoons molasses. 

1 teaspoon soda. 1^ cups sour milk. 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter with the tips of the 
fingers, add molasses and sour milk, put into hot mufl5n tins 
and bake in a hot oven. 

WHITE OEHS, 1627 CALOBIES 

2 cups flour. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
4 teaspoons Rumford baking 2 eggs. 

powder. 1 cup milk. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add melted butter 
and rub it in with tips of fingers. Add the well-beaten eggs 
and the milk gradually and beat all well together. Have 
gem pans well greased and heated; fill two-thirds full and 
bake in a very hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Put a 
little melted butter on each gem before putting it into the 
oven. They are suflBciently cooked when tested with a fine 
washed knitting needle and it comes out dry. 

COBNHEAL OEHS, 1370 CALOBIES 

1 cup flour. Vz teaspoon salt. 

V2 cup cornmeal. 1 egg. 

l^ cup sugar. 1 cup milk. 

4 teaspoons Rumford baking 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
powder. 

Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl, add the milk and 
well-beaten egg and the melted butter. Put into well-greased 
hot gems and cook in a quick oven. 

FOP-OVEBS, 730 CALOBIES 

1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 cup milk. 1 cup flour. 



TOAST 255 

Beat egg until very light, add milk and salt and sift in the 
flour very carefully — beat very light, never stirring. Have 
ready gem pans or stone custard cups, well greased and heated. 
Pour in mixture, filling two-thirds full, and bake in quick 
oven. This will make six large pop-overs. The success of 
these pop-overs lies in beating the batter well and in having 
the cups very hot before putting in the mixture. 

Note. — These cannot be cooked successfully in tin. 

BTTTTEB BALLS 
1 teaspoon butter = 36 Calories. 

Cut butter in small pieces size of balls desired, and put 
in ice-water. Soak the butter paddles in boiling water ten 
minutes, then chill in ice-water. Hold a paddle firmly in 
the left hand and roll each piece of butter with the right 
paddle until round. If butter sticks it must be chilled longer, 
or paddles must be rubbed with salt and reheated. 

One pound of butter will make about thirty balls. 

TOAST 

In ordinary wheat bread, starch is the principal constituent. 
Starch when subjected to a high degree of heat is changed 
into an easily digested substance called dextrin. 

In the ordinary cooking of a loaf of bread the starch, in 
the o]iter layer is changed into dextrin, which gives the crust 
its sweet fiavor. Slices of bread toasted undergo a similar 
change. 

Bread is toasted not merely to brown it, but to take out 
all the moisture possible, so that it may be more thoroughly 
moistened with the saliva, and thus easily digested; also 
to give it a better fiavor. The correct way to make toast is 
to use stale bread cut in uniform slices, and to dry it thor- 
oughly before browning. 

Toast prepared in this way, even if moistened with milk 
or water, may be easily and thoroughly acted upon by the 
digestive fiuids. 



256 TEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

ENEBOY VALUE OF BBEAD 

1 Blice (1 oz.) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread =3 70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread =71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz.) Boston Brown Bread.. =64 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

SIPPETS 

Cut thin slices of bread, and from them make oblongs an 
inch wide by four inches long. Toast carefully so that they 
will not break, and pile on a small bread-plate with doily if 
they are to be served dry. 

TOAST STICKS 

Take a slice of fresh home-made bread (made without short- 
ening), or French bread, cut five-eighths of an inch thick, re- 
move crust and cut in narrow strips. Place on rack in pan, 
and dry and brown in a slow oven. 

CBOTTTONS 

See chapter " Soup Accompaniments " for recipe. Page 
230. 

OLTTTEN CBISP (FOB THE DIABETIC) 

Cut Gum Gluten Bread into thin slices, and dry in slow 
oven until the moistening is thoroughly evaporated, or the 
bread may be cut in cubes and slightly browned. Serve in 
soups or in milk. 

Note. — Gluten Biscuit Crisps, page 261. 

WATEB TOAST 

Toast the bread. Dip quickly in boiling salted water (al- 
lowing one-half teaspoon salt to one cup water). Spread 
with butter. Serve on hot plate. 

TOASTED CBACEEBS 
1 Saltine = 15 Calories. 

Toast oblong crackers daintily, and butter. Serve on plate 
with doily, piled log-cabin fashion. 



TOAST 26r 

HUE TOAST, 888 CAIOSIES 

Put a cup of rich milk in a saucepan and place it on the 
stove. While it is heating, toast three slices of bread to a 
delicate brown. Put them into a covered dish, and when the 
milk is scalding hot, season it with a saltspoon of salt, and 
pour it over the toast. 

Xote. — A little butter may be spread on each slice before 
the milk is added, but it is a more delicate dish without it. 

CBEAX TOAST NO. I, 261 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% tablespoon butter. % cup milk. 

% tablespoon flour. 1% slices bread. 

^ saltspoon salt. 

Scald the milk. Melt butter, add flour, remove from fire 
and add the milk gradually. Stir over heat constantly until 
smooth, cooking five minutes after blending, or until the 
starch is thoroughly cooked. 

Toast: Bemove crust if desired, cut in oblong pieces and 
toast. Serve on small platter with cream sauce poured over 
it, and garnish with toast points. 

Note. — If you wish the toast very soft, it may be dipped 
very quickly in boiling salted water before adding the cream 
sauce. 

CBEAIC TOAST NO. U, 261 CALOBIES 

1/^ tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon cold water. 

y^ tablespoon flour. % <^P milk. 

Y^ saltspoon salt. 1^ slices toast. 

Scald milk. Mix fiour and salt and add the cold water 
gradually, making a smooth, thin paste. Add to scalded 
milk; cook in double boiler twenty minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until it thickens. Add butter. Pour over toast, and 
serve hot, on hot platter. 

CELEBY TOAST 
4 ounces celery = 12 Calories. 

Clean celery and cut into one-inch pieces ; cover with boil- 
ing water and cook until tender; drain off water. 



^58 VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

Prepare Cream Sauce in Cream Toast No. I; add cooked 
tjelery and pour on small slices of buttered toast. Garnish 
with toast points. 

PBENCH TOAST (FOB THE DIABETIC), 144 CALOBIESi 

% cup milk. Salt. 

1 egg. Gluten bread. 

Beat the egg, add milk and salt; dip into this mixture 
slices of Gum Gluten bread. Saut6 and brown in a little 
butter. 

CLAH BBOTH AND TOAST 

Follow directions as for Milk or Cream Toast, adding suffi- 
cient Clam Broth (to taste) to the Sauce, and pour over toast. 
Serve hot. 

SANDWICHES 

TO FBEFABE SANDWICHES 

Use white, entire wheat, graham, gluten or Boston brown 
bread. Bread may be buttered before cutting from loaf, 
spread with soft, plain butter cut into very thin slices, cover 
with another slice, press together, cut in fancy shapes, or 
roll. Wrap in waxed paper or cover with a dry napkin, 
over which place a slightly moistened one, until ready to 
serve. 

Bread may be baked purposely for sandwiches by filling 
one-half pound baking powder boxes half full of dough, let 
rise and bake. Serve sandwiches on a dainty doily on a 
small plate. 

^ ENEBOY VALTTE OP BBEAD 

1 slice (1 oz.) white bread =73 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) entire wheat bread ^70 Calories. 

1 slice (1 oz.) gluten bread =71 Calories. 

1 small slice (1 oz. ) Boston Brown Bread . . = 64 Calories. 
1 teaspoon butter =36 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

^Calculated without bread. 



SANDWICHES 259 

BREAD AJTD BTJTTEK SANDWICHES 

Butter bread slightly, cut very thin and put slices to- 
gether. Cut in fancy shapes. 

BOSTON BBOWN BBEAD SANDWICHES 

Steam Boston brown bread in one-half pound baking pow- 
der cans. Butter and cut in thin slices and add a thin round 
of white bread. The combination of the two makes a pleas- 
ing variety. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Chop stuffed olives fine and add equal quantity of cream 
chfeese and spread on bread and butter sandwiches. A lettuce 
leaf may be added if desired. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Chop cold boiled chicken, add mayonnaise dressing and 
spread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

Or, instead of mayonnaise, moisten with strong chicken 
broth and season with salt and pepper. Minced celery may 
be added. 

EOO SANDWICHES 

See chapter " Eggs " for recipe. Page 183. 

EBVIT SANDWICHES 

' Spread bread and butter sandwiches with stewed dates, 
figs or prunes, seasoned with a little lemon juice or chop 
dates, raisins and nuts very fine and moisten with " Cream 
Dressing.^^ See page 274. 

LETTTTCE SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches with a little mayon- 
naise dressing, lay in fresh, crisp lettuce leaves washed and 
dried thoroughly, and cut even. 

NUT SANDWICHES 

Prepare same as lettuce sandwiches, adding chopped nuts 
to the mayonnaise. 



260 JEOETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

PEFTONOIDS SANDWICHES 

Cut slices of bread in fancy shapes, butter and spread with 
layer of Dry Peptonoids Soluble, adding salt, pepper, paprika 
or celery salt, it desired. 

Note. — Dry Peptonoids Soluble may be blended with 
mayonnaise dressing, cream, chopped nuts or eggs, for filling. 

RAW BEEP SANDWICHES 

See chapter "Beef Preparations^^ for recipe. Page 217. 

SABDINE SANDWICHES 

Eemove oil and bones from canned sardines. Mix with 
Boiled Dressing (page 273) to form a paste and spread. 
Chopped olives or gherkins may be added, 

CBACEEBS — WAFEBS 

BEAK CBACKEBS, 151S CALOBIES i 

1^ cups wheat bran. % teaspoon salt. • 

1% cups sifted flour. 4 tablespoons butter. 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Milk. 
Yz teaspoon soda. 

Blend all ingredients, using enough cold milk to make a 
stiff dough. EoU to one-eighth inch thickness and cut with 
a small biscuit cutter. Great care is needed in baking that 
they do not burn and at the same time that they are thor- 
oughly cooked. 

They keep well a long time if put in a tin box. 

They should be eaten at each meal if needed as purgative 
medicine. 

EDUCATOB CBACXEBS 

The various varieties of Educator Crackers may be served 
plain or buttered slightly and heated in oven. 

GLUTEN CBACKEBS (POB THE DIABETIC), 2555 CALOBIES 

1 pound Gum Gluten Flour. Sweetina. 

Va pound butter. Cold water. 

Salt. 

» Without milk. 



CRACKERS — WAFERS 261 

Mix thoroughly the Gum Gluten Floiir with the butter, 
add salt and Sweetina to taste. Add cold water to make a 
soft dough. Toss on floured board, roll thin, cut into shape, 
bake. 

OLTTTEN WAEEBS (EOB THE DIABETIC) 

V2 cup thick cream = 432 Cal- Gum Gluten Flour (1 cup = 513 
ories. Calories). 

1 saltspoon salt. 

Add salt to the cream and add the Gluten gradually to 
make a stifiE dough. Toss on a floured board and roll as 
thinly as possible and cut in strips with sharp knife or shape 
with a cutter. Bake in a buttered sheet in a slow oven until 
delicately browned. 

OLUTEH BISCUIT CBISPS (FOB THE DIABETIC) 
1 biscuit crisp = 25 Calories. 

Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be served plain, or but- 
tered and heated slightly in oven. 

OLTTTEK CHEESE WAPEBS (EOB THE DIABETIC), 882 CALOBIES 

1 cup Gum Gluten Flour. Yolks 2 eggs. 

3 tablespoons cream. 1 saltspoon salt. 

3 tablespoons grated cheese. Nutmeg. 

Mix in order given, roll thin and bake. 

YEaETABIES — VEaETABLE SAITCES 

LEOUHES — BOOTS AND TTTBEB8 — OBEEN VEOETABIES 

Vegetables include nearly all kinds of plant food except 
fruits, grains and nuts. 

Classification. Vegetables are classified as — 
Legumes — as peas, beans and lentils. 
Eoots and Tubers — as potatoes, beets, turnips, etc. 
Green Vegetables — as lettuce, spinach, celery, etc. 
Composition. All vegetables have a high percentage of 
water, and with, the exception of legumes, a relatively small 
proportion of protein. The chief nutrients are starch and 



262 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

sugar. The fats are usually small in amount and chiefly in 
the form of oils. *A variety of nineral salts are present, 
chiefly salts of potash and soda united with organic acids. 
Vegetables give bulk to food and possess antiscorbutic prop- 
erties. 

Digestibility, As the gastric ferments play no part in 
carbohydrate digestion, vegetables are digested mainly in the 
intestines. The presence of cellulose prevents the ready di- 
gestion of the nutrients, hence it may be stated as a general 
rule that vegetable food is less completely digested and ab- 
sorbed than animal food. It would seem desirable to restrict 
this type of food for persons of very weak digestive powers. 

General Bules for Cooking Vegetables. Wash thoroughly ; 
pare, peel, or scrape, according to the kind. Let them stand 
in cold water until ready to cook, to keep them crisp, to 
freshen them when wilted, or to prevent them from turning 
dark. 

Cook in enough freshly boiling salted water to cover, and 
keep the water boiling (not rapid boiling, as tender vegetables 
are easily broken). Allow one teaspoon of salt to one quart 
of water. Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, 
except in the case of delicate green vegetables, as peas, 
spinach, etc., when it should not be added until nearly done. 
To preserve the color, cook green vegetables uncovered. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender, drained im- 
mediately, and served promptly. Overcooking injures their 
flavor and makes them tough. Time for cooking vegetables 
varies with the size, age and freshness. 

Legumes. Of this class of food-stuffs, peas and beans are 
the most important. Lentils and peanuts are also valuable, 
but less widely used. 

Composition. Fresh legumes, such as peas and beans, con- 
tain from 2 per cent, to 9 per cent, of protein, a trace of fat 
and from 7 per cent, to 30 per cent, of carbohydrate. 

Dried legumes, such as dried peas and beans, on account 
of the lessened amount of water, contain from 18 per cent, to 
35 per cent, of protein, over 1 per cent, fat, and as high as 



VEGETABLES 263 

65 per cent, carbohydrate. They form one of the chief sources 
of protein in a strictly vegetarian diet. 

Digestibility. Digestibility depends largely upon the 
method of cooking and the amount eaten. The more the 
cellulose is softened or removed, the more completely they 
are utilized. Legumes are apt to produce fermentation, 
which causes flatulence and gastro-intestinal disturbance. 
They are more suitable for those leading an active outdoor 
life than for invalids, convalescents, or those of sedentary 
habits. 

Principles of Cooking. The attractiveness and digestibility 
of dried legumes depends very greatly on proper cooking. 
Hard water must not be used, as it makes them hard and 
unpalatable, and causes a considerable loss of protein. 
Water softened by boiling is more desirable than that soft- 
ened by baking soda. When cooked in the former, the dried 
legumes, especially beans, keep their shape better, are only 
very slightly colored yellow, and are more mealy, conse- 
quently more digestible, as the digestive juices can more 
easily mingle with the particles of the food. 

Boots and Tubers. Boots and tubers contain the reserve 
material stored up by the plant, and some of them are among 
the important food-stufiEs. Their nu,tritive value is largely 
due to starch and sugar. On accounl v^f the small proportion 
of protein and fat, and the large proportion of water, they 
are inferior in nutritive value to both legumes and cereals. 
The mineral matter is an important constituent of these, as 
of other vegetable foods. Sodium, potassium and iron salts, 
and sulphur and phosphorus compounds, are the common ash 
constituents. In combination with organic acids, etc., they 
contribute much to the flavor of these foods. 

As a class they may be divided into the following groups : 

1. Starch-yielding vegetables, as potatoes and sweet pota- 
toes. 

2. Succulent roots, as beets, carrots, parsnips and onions. 

3. Condimental or flavoring roots, as horse-radish and gin- 
ger. 



264: VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

The potato is the most important of the starch-yielding 
class of vegetables. It is a tuber or thickened underground 
stem. 

The composition of the potato (Letheby) is as follows : 

Water 75.00 per cent. 

Starch 18.80 per cent. 

Nitrogenous matter 2.00 per cent. 

Sugar 3.00 per cent. 

Fat 20 per cent. 

When pared before cooking, there may be a considerable 
loss of nutritive material, especially of mineral matter. .By 
cooking in the skin, this loss is largely prevented. To be 
easily digestible, a potato must be mealy, so as to be readily 
acted on by digestive juices. This is best accomplished by 
baking in an oven at 380 to 400° F. When a patient begins 
to take solids, the vegetable usually first prescribed is a baked 
potato. 

Beets, carrots, parsnips, salsify, turnips and onions are 
the most common of the class of succulent roots. They con- 
tain, as a rule, more water than the starch-yielding class of 
vegetables, and their carbohydrates are frequently in the form 
of sugars, pectins, and other polysaccharide carbohydrates 
than true starch, some of which have no nutritive value. The 
percentage of crude fiber is greater than in the starch-yield- 
ing class. 

The characteristic flavors and odors are in many cases due 
to the presence of volatile organic compounds of sulphur. 
These are often advantageous in making the vegetables pal- 
atable, and adding variety to the diet. 

The beet contains a large percentage of starch and sugar. 

Carrots and parsnips also contain much sugar, and when 
young and tender form a very nutritious food. 

Onions contain considerable nutriment, but are most val- 
uable for their pungent oil, which is rich in sulphur. They 
have diuretic properties, and are useful in constipation. 

Sadishes contain a large amount of cellulose and should 
not be eaten by invalids. They are chiefly used as a relish. 



VEGETABLES i65 

Oreen Vegetables. These vegetables have a fuel value of 
less than 200 calories per pound; they are useful chiefly for 
their mineral salts, and for the bulk, variety and relish they 
give to the diet. 

Asparagus is easily digested, even by invalids. It has a 
diuretic action, and imparts a characteristic odor to the urine 
for some hours. 

Cabbage contains considerable sulphur and therefore fre- 
quently causes flatulence. 

Cauliflower belongs to the cabbage family, but is easily 
digested. 

Celery is more digestible cooked than raw. 

Spinach is especially valuable for its large amount of iron. 

ENEBOY VALI7E OF THE POTATO 

1 medium potato (3^ ozs.) =83 Calories. 

See Table, page 64, for energy value of other ingredients. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare and put into 
cold water to keep from discoloring. Put them into sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, boil and when partly cooked, 
add one tablespoon salt to every six potatoes. Cook until 
soft, about twenty-five to thirty minutes, drain very dry, and 
shake the pan, without a cover, gently over the stove till 
the potatoes are mealy. Do not serve in covered dish. 

BICED POTATOES 

Add salt and pepper to boiled potatoes, and rub them 
through a heated potato-ricer or squash-strainer into the (hot) 
dish they are to be served in. Serve immediately, or pour 
a little milk over the top and brown in the oven. 

HASHED POTATOES, 805 CALOBIES 

For mashed potatoes the uneven sizes may be used; the 
larger ones should be cut, so all will be of uniform size. 
Prepare as for boiled potatoes. When cooked and dried, add 
salt, butter, pepper and cream in following proportion: 



266 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

1 pint potatoes. ^ saltspoon white pepper. 

% teaspoon salt. 2 teaspoons hot cream or milk. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

To the potatoes add the salt, pepper and butter, and mash, 
leaving them in saucepan cooked in, and on stove so as to 
keep them hot. Use open-wire masher or fork and beat 
quickly, so they may be light and dry, not ** gummy.'^ Lastly 
put in the cream, beat for a moment and serve immediately. 

POTATO CAKES 

From cold mdshed potatoes make slightly flattened balls. 
Put them in a floured tin, brush each over with milk and 
bake in a hot oven five minutes, or till a delicate brown. 

Note. — These cakes may be sautfed in a little beef fat or 
butter if desired. 

SITBPBISE BALLS 

EoU the potatoes into balls as above, and with a teaspoon 
press a hollow in the top. Chop fine some cold, lean meat, 
season it with salt, pepper and gravy and put one teaspoon 
of the meat into the hollow of the potato ball. Put a little 
milk or melted butter on top and brown in oven or saute. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size, not very large, wash and 
scrub thoroughly, cut off a small piece at each end in order 
that the steam may escape. Bake in hot oven from forty-five 
to fifty minutes. When baked break open slightly, that steam 
may escape, and serve on folded napkin. 

POTATOES BAKED IN THE HALF SHELL 

Cut off top of baked potato and scoop out inside. Mash 
and season well as for mashed potatoes and add the well- 
beaten white of egg. Fill the skins with the mixture, heap- 
ing it lightly on top, brush over with milk or slightly beaten 
white of egg and brown slightly. Potatoes may be sprinkled 
with grated cheese before putting into oven. 



VEGETABLES 267 

POTATOES Air OBATIN 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes and put into a buttered 
baking dish. Cover with white sauce, put buttered cracker 
or bread crumbs on top and bake until golden brown. 

Note. — A little grated cheese added to the White Sauce 
just before pouring over the potatoes adds a pleasant flavor. 

CBEAMED POTATOES, 180 CALOBIES 

1 cup cold sliced or cubed po- y^ teaspoon salt. 

tatoes. Yg teaspoon finely chopped pars- 

V-i cup milk. ley. 

^^ tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

Heat the milk, add the potatoes, and cook until they have 
nearly absorbed the milk. Add butter and seasoning, cook 
five minutes longer, add parsley and serve hot. 

POTATO BALLS 

From large potatoes cut balls with a French potato cutter 
and throw them into cold water. Cook for twelve minutes 
or more in enough boiling water to cover. Salt at end of 
six minutes. Drain and let them stand a few minutes to 
dry. Serve as a vegetable, with cream sauce, or with parsley 
butter, or use as a garnish for broiled fish. Test potatoes 
with a needle to see when tender. 

Note. — Make mashed potatoes from frames left after cut- 
ting out the balls. 

PABSLEY BTTTTEB, 358 CALOBIES 

1 tablespoon butter. Juice ^^ lemon. 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley. 1 pint potato balls. 

Cream the butter, add lemon juice and chopped parsley. 
Add to the hot potato balls, heat five minutes and serve. 
Omit lemon juice if desired. 

ASPABAOirS 

14 bunch asparagus =60 Calories. 

1 slice toast (1 oz.) =73 Calories. 

Boiled Asparagus, Prepare asparagus by cutting oflf lower 
part of stalk at the point at which they will snap. Wash, 



268 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

remove scales and tie together or cut into one inch pieces. 
Cook in boiling salted water until soft, twenty to thirty-five 
minutes. As the tips are more tender keep them out of water 
the first ten minutes of the cooking. Drain, place in hot 
serving dish, spread with one-half teaspoon butter and sprin- 
kle with salt. 

Asparagus on Toast. Serve boiled asparagus on buttered 
toast, moistened with a little of the liquid the asparagus is 
cooked in. 

Cream Asparagus, Plain or on Toast Pour Cream Sauce 
'No. I over boiled asparagus and serve hot, or serve boiled 
asparagus on toast and pour Cream Sauce No. I over same. 

CABBOTS 

1 small carrot (2 ozs.) =:20 Calories. 

Boiled Carrots. Wash, scrub and scrape oflf the very thin 
skin. Cut each carrot into slices from one-fourfh to one- 
fifth inch thick, cut into cubes and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft, forty-five to sixty minutes. They may be 
served plain with a little melted butter, salt and pepper, or 
they may be mashed and seasoned as above. 

Creamed Carrots. Pour Creamed Sauce N"o. I over boiled 
cubed carrot, reheat and serve. 

CATTLIFLOWEB 

1 serving (4 ozs.) r=35 Calories. 

Boiled Cauliflower. Cut oflf stalk and remove leaves of 
cauliflower. Soak thirty minutes in cold water to cover, head 
down. Cook, head up, twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft, 
in boiling salted water. Drain and separate flowerets. 

Creamed Cauliflower. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
cauliflower, reheat and serve. 

CELEBY 

1 serving (2 ozs.) =6 Calories. 

Scrape celery. Cut stalks in one-half inch pieces and 
cook uncovered in boiling salted water twenty to thirty min- 
ute's. Serve with Cream Sauce No. I poured over it. Sauce 



VEGETABLES 269 

can be made using part milk and part water in which celery 
was cooked. 

SPINACH — DANDELIONS — BEET GBEENS 

1 serving (4 ozs.) =27 Calories. 

Bemove roots, pick over carefully (discarding wilted leaves) 
and wash thoroughly in many waters until free from sand; 
cook in boiling salted water, allowing one-fourth as much 
water as greens. Cook twenty-five to thirty minutes. Drain 
and chop if desired, reheat, season with butter and salt ; gar- 
nish with slices of hard-cooked egg. Serve with vinegar. 

ONIONS 

1 serving (4 ozs.) =56 Calories. 

Boiled Onions. Put onions into pan of cold water and peel 
under water. Put them into boiling water with one teaspoon 
salt and one-fourth teaspoon soda to one quart water. After 
cooking five minutes pour off the water and add fresh boiling 
salted water, and after ten minutes change the water again. 
Boil until tender — forty-five to sixty minutes. Drain off 
the water and add a little milk, cook a few moments and add 
butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Onions. Pour Cream Sauce No. I over boiled 
onions, reheat and serve. 

Scalloped Onions, Place onions in a baking dish and add 
Cream Sauce No. I. Cover top with buttered cracker or 
bread crumbs and bake until crumbs are a golden brown. 

PEAS (OBEEN OB CANNED) 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =114 Calories. 

Green Peas. Eemove peas from pods, cover with cold 
water and let stand one-half hour. Skim off small peas that 
come to the top and drain remaining peas. Cook until soft, 
thirty to forty-five minutes, in a small quantity of water. 
There should be little or no water to drain from peas when 
they are cooked. A small quantity of sugar may be added 
if the natural sweetness of the peas has been lost. Season 
wath butter and salt 



270 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Canned Peas should be drained and thoroughly rinsed, 
cover with boiling water, boil two minutes and again drain, 
then add a small quantity of boiling water and cook from 
five to ten minutes. Season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Creamed Peas No. I. To one-third cup of cooked peas 
add one teaspoon of flour mixed with one-eighth teaspoon /of 
sugar. Cook slightly and add one tablespoon of cream, and 
salt and pepper to taste.= 75 calories. 

Creamed Peas No. IL Pour Cream Sauce No. I over 
drained cooked peas, reheat and serve. 

STBINO BEANS 
1 serving (4 ozs.) =44 Calories. 

Remove strings from beans and cut or snap into one inch 
pieces. Wash and cook in boiling water until tender (one 
to three hours). Drain and season with butter and salt. 
Cook beans in as little water as possible. Select fresh beans 
that will snap easily. 

STEWED TOKATOES 

1 medium tomato =16 Calories. 

1 cup canned tomato =51 Calories. 

Canned or fresh tomatoes may be used. To prepare fresh 
tomatoes wash, pour boiling water over them and then peel 
and cut into pieces, put in saucepan and cook slowly twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a few bread or cracker 
crumbs and season with butter, salt and pepper. Bread and 
cracker crumbs may be omitted. A little sugar may be added 
if tomatoes are very acid. 

BAKED TOKATOES 
1 medium tomato = 16 Calories. 

Wash, dry and remove a thin slice from stem end of to- 
mato. Eemove seeds and pulp, and drain off most of the 
liquid ; to the pulp add an equal quantity of cracker crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper and a little chopped onion, or a 
few drops of onion juice. Eefill tomatoes with mixture and 



yS GET ABLE SAUCES 271 

place in a buttered tin; sprinkle with buttered cracker 
crumbs, bake twenty to thirty minutes in a hot oven. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES (FOB THE DIABETIC), 165 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 large ripe tomato^ 3 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. 

Salt, pepper. 2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp; and place on top of this one-half 
the tomato, from which the skin has been removed and then 
cut in small pieces ; season well with salt, pepper and bits of 
butter. Add another layer of crumbs (one crushed Biscuit 
Crisp), then the remaining tomato and seasoning, lastly 
crumbs. Place bits of butter on top, put in slow oyen and 
bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

VEGETABLE SAUCES 

CBEAM OB WHITE SATTCE NO. I, 152 CALOBIES i 

Use to pour over any vegetable. 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk or thin cream. % saltspoon salt. 

% tablespoon butter. Speck white pepper. 

^ tablespoon flour. 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove 
from stove, add the flour, then the scalding milk gradually, 
put over heat and cook, stirring constantly, until smooth 
and there is no raw taste of starch. 

This sauce may be used in many ways — with creamed oys- 
ters, sweetbreads, any cream dish or any scalloped dish. If 
a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

CBEAH SAirCE NO. U, 184 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ cup milk or thin cream. 1 teaspoon butter. 

^ tablespoon flour. % teaspoon salt. 

^Oalculated with milk. 



272 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Scald the cream. Wet the flour with a little cold milk to 
make a smooth mixture^ and add to the hot cream. Cook 
well. Just before serving add the butter and salt, and pep- 
per if desired. 

Sauce blended in this way is especially easy of digestion. 
If a thick sauce is desired, use one tablespoon of flour in place 
of one-half. 

SALADS AND SALAD DBESSINOS 

The salad plants, such as lettuce, celery, water cress, en» 
dives, etc., contain little nutriment, but are especially rich 
in mineral matter, and served uncooked in the form of salad^ 
all this mineral matter is preserved. They are very valuable, 
as these mineral substances are necessary for the healthy 
condition of the blood and should form a large part of the 
daily diet. 

Salads should not be eaten by dyspeptics or those having 
delicate bowels. 

Salads should be prepared daintily, arranged attractively 
and always be served cold. Lettuce and other salad plants 
should be fresh, crisp, and dry. Wash thoroughly, on account 
of danger of germs from dust, soil, etc., chill in very cold 
water until crisp and dry by placing on a clean towel so that 
the water will drain from the leaves; or fold lightly in a 
towel and place on ice until serving time. Parsley is re- 
vived quickly by sprinkling with cold water and putting it 
into an air-tight fruit jar and keeping it in a cold place. 
Treated in this way it will keep fresh a long time. 

Dressing should not be added to green vegetables until 
just before serving, as it tends to wilt them. 

Meat to be used in salads should be free from skin and 
gristle, and should be cut into small cubes, mixed with French 
dressing and allowed to stand some time before combining 
with the vegetables. 

A dainty salad served with a crisp cracker or cheese wafer 



SALAD DRESSING 273 

forms an acceptable luncheon* for the convalescent. It may 
also be served with dinner. 

FRENCH BBESSINO, 270 CALOBIES 

(Individual Kule, % of Recipe.) 

1 tablespoon vinegar. % teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons Nicelle olive oil. % saltspoon pepper. 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly and pour over salad just 
before serving. 

BOILED DBESSINO, 483 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule, % of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 

Yg teaspoon mustard. l^ cup milk. 

Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons butter. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 14 cup vinegar. 

Mix all dry ingredients. Beat egg in double boiler, add 
dry ingredients, butter and milk; cook over hot water, stir- 
ring constantly until thick like custard; add vinegar; cool 
and serve. 

Note. — If it curdles, beat over cold water until smooth. 

KAYONNAISE DBESSING, 2570 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule, % of Recipe.) 

1 teaspoon mustard. Yolks 2 eggs. 

2 teaspoons powdered sugar. 1% cups Nicelle olive oil. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 
Speck cayenne. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 

Mix dry ingredients, add to yolks and mix thoroughly 
Add a few drops of oil at a time until one-half cup is used, 
beating with egg-beater or wooden spoon. Then add al- 
ternately a few drops of vinegar and lemon juice and the 
remainder of the oil, using care not to lose the stiff con- 
sistency. It should be a thick dressing and not added to 
food until just before serving. 

Note. — Have all ingredients and utensils thoroughly 
chilled and place mixing bowl in a pan of crushed ice while 
blending. 



274: VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

If dressing curdles^ take another egg yolk and add the 
curdled mixture to it slowly, beating constantly. 

Note. — One-half or one-fourth of recipe may be prepared. 
As it will keep well it is best to prepare in larger quantity, 
thus saving labor. 

CBEAM BBSS8ING, 1697 CALORIES 

(For Fruit Salads.) 

Yz cup butter. 1 teaspoon mustard. 

2 tablespoons flour. 1 tablespoon eider vinegar. 

1 cup scalded milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

3 yolks of eggs. V2 cup vinegar. 
3 whites of egga, ^ cup sugar. 

(a) Melt butter in a saucepan, add flour and pour on 
gradually the scalding milk, cook thoroughly, gtirring con- 
stantly. (&) Beat yolks in top of double boiler, add the 
mustard (dissolved in one tablespoon of vinegar), salt and 
vinegar. Pour (a) gradually on the egg mixture and cook 
over hot water until it thickens like soft custard, remove from 
fire, add the sugar and fold in the stiffly-beaten white of eggs. 
Pour into glass fruit jar, cool and cover and keep on ice. 
This dressing will keep a long time and is especially delicious 
to serve with fruit salads. 

CHICKEN SALAD, 856 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

2 cupg cut chicken. % saltspoon pepper. 

1 cup cut celery. 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

2 tablespoons Nicelle olive oiL 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. 
1 saltspoon salt. ^ 

Mayonnaise, olives, celery leaves or white lettuce for gar- 
nishing. 

Cut the cold chicken into small dice ; cut the cleaned celery 
into small uniform pieces. Mix these together and pour over 
the oil. Mix well, then sprinkle with salt and pepper to 
taste; add the vinegar, blend and put in colander to drain; 
set in a cold place for two or three hours. Just before serv- 
ing add the mayonnaise, put on a bed of lettuce and garnish. 

Note. — Do not mince chicken. 



SALADS ^75 

FBUIT SALADS 

Any combination of fruit desired may be used served with 
" Cream Dressing." An attractive combination is a banana 
peeled, cut in half crosswise. Cut one-half lengthwise, ar- 
range on lettuce leaf, add a little Cream Dressing and gar- 
nish with malaga grapes (cut in half and seeded) and small 
pieces of English walnuts. 

XABGI7EBITE SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg cut crosswise. Bemove yolk. Cut 
white in slices, petal fashion, arrange on lettuce leaf like a 
marguerite and fill the center with the yolk put through the 
potato-ricer or strainer. Garnish with parsley and serve 
with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

IdZED SALAD 

Equal proportions of green peas (cooked and drained), 
celery cut in thin slices and English walnuts cut into small 
pieces. Season with salt and pepper, add mayonnaise and 
serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish with ripe cherries on the 
stem with blanched hazel nuts put in place of stones. 

SWEETBBEAD SALAD 

Mix equal parts of parboiled sweetbreads cut into one-half 
inch cubes and celery cut into thin slices. Season with salt 
and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Arrange daintily 
on lettuce leaves. 

TOKATO SALAD 

Take some medium sized tomatoes, cover with boiling 
water, remove skin and put in refrigerator until ready to 
serve. Then cut off top of tomato, scoop out a part of the 
inside and fill with finely cut celery mixed with boiled dress- 
ing or with mayonnaise. Serve tomato on lettuce leaf and 
garnish with sprig of parsley. 

WALDOBF SALAD 

Mix equal parts of apples, pared and cut into small cubes, 
celery sliced in thin circles and English walnuts cut into 



276* VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

small pieces. Season with salt and moisten with mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce leaf, garnished with a spoonful of whipped 
cream and halves of English walnuts or pecans. 

WATEB LILY SALAD 

One hard-cooked egg. Cut in halves crosswise in fence 
fashion; remove yolk, put through strainer and refill white. 
Serve on shredded lettuce leaves and garnish with parsley. 
Serve with French, boiled or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE WAFEBS 

Butter wafer crackers and sprinkle thickly with grated 
cheese. Put in oven and bake, till cheese is melted and crack- 
ers are a delicate brown. Arrange on small plate with doily. 
Serve with salad. 

CHEESE OLTTTEN BISCTTIT CBISPS (FOB THE DIABETIC) 

Put grated cheese on Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps, place in 
moderate oven until the cheese is melted. Serve while hot. 
Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps may be spread with cream cheese 
and served with salad. 

EEUITSi 

Fruits are the seed-bearing portions of plants. Some 
products of this class, such as melons, are sometimes called 
fruits and sometimes vegetables ; and a few vegetable products 
which are not fruits in the strict sense, are included in this 
class of food products because they have a similar place in 
the diet. 

Composition. Fresh fruits contain a high percentage of 
water, varying from about 75 per cent, to over 95 per cent. 
It has been suggested that those containing 80 per cent, or 
more of water be classed as flavor fruits, and those with less 
than 80 per cent, as food fruits : Bananas, grapes and fresh 
figs are the commonest examples of the latter class. When 
the water is removed by evaporation, as in drying, the per- 

* For further information, note " Uses of Fruit as Pood." Farmer's Bulle- 
tin No. 293, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. 0. 



FRUITS 277 

centage of moisture falls to 30 per cent, or kss, and the 
proportion of nutrients is correspondingly raised, so that 
dried fruits would fall into the class of food fruits. Pre- 
served fruits have their nutritive value raised by the addition 
of water, and usually by some loss of water in preparation. 

As a class, fruits contain little or no fat. The olive is a 
remarkable exception. 

The proportion of protein is so low as to be practically 
negligible. 

Carbohydrates are the chief nutrient present. In ripe 
fruits these are almost wholly in the form of sugars and other 
soluble carbohydrates, commonly called pectin bodies. In 
unripe fruits starch is often found — notably in the ordinary 
banana. The principal sugars are sucrose or cane sugar, dex- 
trose or grape sugar, and levulose or fniit sugar. A mix- 
ture of the last two is common, and is called invert sugar. 

Fruits contain characteristic organic acids, such as malic 
in apples, citric in lemons, etc. These acids exist in the form 
of salts, usually of potassium. A little phosphoric acid, lime, 
iron, etc., also occur. 

The flavor is due partly to the sugars and acids, and partly 
to characteristic ethereal bodies present in small quantities. 
Chemists have isolated the ethers and oils which give the 
peculiar flavor to bananas, strawberries and other fruits. 

Digestibility. Digestibility of fruits varies with the kind 
of fruit eaten and its mode of preparation ; stewed fruits are 
more easily digested than raw fruits. Personal idiosyncracy 
has also much to do with digestibility in case of this class 
of food materials. Oranges, lemons, grapes and peaches are 
very generally digested with ease. Oranges are much used 
in invalid dietaries, their juice being very effective in allay- 
ing thirst. Orange juice is also commonly administered to 
infants, especially if fed artificially, for the sake of the min- 
eral matter and to prevent constipation. 

It is important to those who are obliged to exclude sugar 
from the dietary to know that fruits containing the least 
sugar are the plum, peach, apricot and raspberry. Those 



278 



VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 



containing the largest amounts are the apple, sweet cherry, 
grape and pear. 

The apple exerts a most excellent influence upon the liver 
and kidneys, and is valuable in cases of acidity of the stom- 
ach. 

The juice of the ripe pineapple contains a remarkable ac- 
tive digestive principle, similar to pepsin, termed bromelin, 
and so powerful is its action upon proteids that it will digest 
as much as one thousand times its weight within a few hours. 
It is especially valuable in diphtheria and diabetes. 

Figs and prunes are valuable for inactivity of the liver 
and most excellent laxatives. 

The banana contains a large amount of starch, as much as 
the potato ; therefore it should not be eaten in an unripe state. 
For invalids and children and others of delicate digestion, it 
should always be cooked. 

Grape juice and other freshly expressed juices are refresh- 
ing and wholesome beverages, and can often be given to in- 
valids when the pulp would prove irritating. 

Nutritive Value, Fresh fruits are chiefly valuable for 
their refreshing, appetizing qualities, and for their mineral 
constituents. The organic acids form carbonates in the body, 
and by their alkalinity assist in the regulation of body 
processes. 

In disturbed Conditions of metabolism it is often important 
to know just what salts and acids fruits contain. 

As already stated, the chief nutrients are carbohydrates. 
In fuel value, fresh fruits resemble given vegetables, as is 
shown by the following figures : 



Kind of Fresh Fruit. Calories 

Per. 
Pound. 

Apples 290 

Blackberries 270 

Oranges 240 

Peaches 190 



Kind of Green 
Vegetables. 



Calories 
Per. 

Pound. 

Beans, string, fresh 195 

Beets, fresh 215 

Carrots, fresh 210 

Onions, fresh 205 



FRUITS 279 

The dried fruits compare favorably with bread, dried beans 
and similar foods as to energy value, but the latter contain 
protein in considerable amounts, while in fruits it occurs only 
in small quantities. The fuel value of fruits is often in* 
creased by the sugar added in cooking or serving. 

Fruits are also valuable for bulk, which is an essential 
factor in diet. Most of them contain a considerable propor- 
tion of indigestible matter. Intelligently used, fruits are a 
valuable part of a well-balanced diet, and their use should 
be encouraged. 

Precautions in the Use of Fruit. Over-ripe or unripe fruit 
should not be eaten raw; besides inferior flavor there is dan- 
ger of digestive disturbance. 

Before serving, all fruit should be thoroughly washed to 
avoid germs. Digestive disturbances are more often caused 
by these germs than by the fruit itself. There is danger 
also of • acquiring harmful intestinal parasites from raw 
fruits; in all doubtful cases, the food should be cooked. 

BAKED APPLES 
1 medium apple = 70 Calories. 

Wipe and core apples. Put in a shallow dish with one 
tablespoon water to each apple; more may be added during 
cooking if necessary, put into the center of each apple two 
teaspoons sugar. Bake in a hot oven twenty to thirty min- 
utes, or until soft; baste with the syrup every ten minutes. 
A little nutmeg may be added to the sugar, and a few drops 
of lemon juice to each apple. Care must be taken that apples 
do not lose their shape and break. 

STEWED APPLE SATTCE, 90 CAIOBIES 

Wash, pare, core and slice one apple; put in saucepan and 
add one teaspoon sugar and enough boiling water to partly 
cover. Cover and cook slowly without stirring until trans- 
parent and tender. Appetizing to serve with any breakfast 
food. 

Pears and peaches may be cooked in the same way. 



28b VEGETABLE OR PLANT FOODS 

APPLES CTTBAN STYLE 

Pare and core sound, tart apples. Steam until almost ten- 
der; remove to a buttered pan; fill cavities with cocoanut, 
stick apples full of blanched almonds, baste with syrup made 
of sugar, water and lemon juice. Finish cooking in a hot 
oven, basting often. When serving, fill the cavities with 
jelly or the jellied juice. 

APEICOT AND PETJNE SAUCE, 178 CALOEIES i 

14 cup prunes. 1 cup cold water. 

l^ cup dried apricots. Sugar to taste. 

Wash fruit carefully; soak over night and cook slowly for 
two hours. If cooked properly the fruit will need very little 
sugar, as the sugar in the fruit is developed by this method 
of cooking. 

BAKED BANANA 

1 medium banana = 64 Calories. 

Baw, this fruit is often indigestible, but baked it acts as 
a stimulant to the nerves, being at once received and rapidly 
assimilated by the stomach. Cut bananas in halves; put in 
shallow pan ; sprinkle with sugar and a little lemon juice and 
bake until soft. 

Note. — The banana contains starch and should be thor- 
oughly ripened before eating. 

CEANBEEEY SAUCE OE JELLY 

1 cup cranberries. % cup water. 

% cup sugar. 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put in saucepan and add 
sugar and water, bring to the boiling point and boil fifteen 
minutes. Strain and cool. 

For jelly use one-half cup sugar and one-quarter cup water 
and after straining put into molds. 

BAKED LEMON OE OEANGE 

Bake a lemon or a sour orange in a moderate oven for 
twenty minutes. When done, open at one end and take out 

I Without sngar. 



FRUITS 281 

the inside. Sweeten with sugar or molasses. This is excel- 
lent for hoarseness and pressure on the lungs. 

OEANGE SUKPLOWEE 

Wash the orange. Put a three-tined fork into the stem 
end. Cut off each end down to pulp, leaving the stem end 
on fork, then pare off rind to pulp, cut out each section and 
place on small plate in sunflower fashion, the pieces of pulp 
for petals; fill centre with granulated sugar. Serve cold. 

Note. — To cut nicely have a large, firm, cold orange and 
a sharp knife. 

OEANQE HO. TL 

1 medium orange = 77 Calories. 

Select a large, firm orange ; wash, cut and peel skin down 
in eight parts, leaving them connected to stem end of orange 
to form the petals, folding them under the pulp. Separate 
pulp in sections and put ice between petals before serving. 

PINEAPPLE, 131 CALOEIES 

1 slice Hawaiian pineapple. 1 Maraschino cherry. 

Serve pineapple on small tea plate with cherry in center. 
To eat a slice of pineapple after a meal is quite in accord- 
ance with physiological indications, as pineapple juice con- 
tains a remarkable digestive principle similar to pepsin. It 
aids the work of digestion in the stomach, also in the intes- 
tinal tract. The Hawaiian Pineapple comes in three forms — 
sliced, crushed and grated. The sliced pineapple is usually 
served just as it comes from the can ; the crushed and grated 
are used like apple sauce and also in delicious made desserts 
and beverages. 

STEWED PETTNES 
3 prunes = 72 Calories. 

Wash and look over the prunes, cover with clear cold water 
and allow to stand on the back of range over night. In the 
morning put the saucepan where they will cook slowly for 
four hours. 



282 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

Note. — No sugar is needed as prunes are 18 per cent, sugar, 
and by this manner of cooking are made very sweet. This 
simmering process renders them rich and juicy, while boiling 
toughens the skin. A little lemon juice is a pleasant addi- 
tion. 

Prunes are a valuable nutrient, and their use as a laxative 
is scarcely second to figs. 

STEAMED KHTJBARB, 234 CALOEIES i 

1 cup rhubarb (4 oz.). ^^ to ^ cup sugar. 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces without re- 
moving the skin, as this gives a pretty pink color to the juice. 
Put it into an agate double boiler without water and steam 
one-half hour, or until soft. Do not stir, as it breaks the 
pieces. Sweeten to taste at once on taking from fire. If 
rhubarb cooks a minute too long — which means after it has 
gone to pieces — it will lose its delicious flavor. 

Rhubarb is rich in oxalic acid, which does much to tone 
the system. 

STEWED EiaS, 936 CALOEIES 

y^ pound figs. 1 cup cold water. 

^ cup white sugar. Juice ^ lemon. 

Wash figs. Dissolve sugar in the water; add figs and bring 
slowly to boiling point. Stew two and one-half hours ; when 
tender, add lemon juice. 

Note. — Cut figs in small pieces; cook very slowly so as 
not to add more water. 

DATE BON SONS 

1 date = 20-25 Calories. 

1 walnut meat = 6-8 Calories. 

Put salted almonds, or fourths of English walnuts into the 
inside of dates that have been cut open and stones removed. 
EoU in powdered or granulated sugar and serve. 

^Calculated with % cup sugar; with % cup sugar = 444 calories. 



NUTS 283 

NTITSi 

Nuts enter but little into the invalid's dietary, but as more 
attention is being paid to means of rendering them di- 
gestible, a word concerning them is not out of place. 

Composition. The edible substance of nuts is concentrated 
food, containing little water, and with few exceptions, much 
fat. In general, nuts are also rich in protein. The average 
composition is as follows: 

Water 1-4% 

Protein 6-16% 

T'ats 40-50% 

Carbohydrates 6-10% 

The only common nut containing much carbohydrate is the 
chestnut, which contains 73 per cent. The pignolia, peanut, 
butternut, almond, beechnut and pistachio contain over 20 
per cent, of protein. The pecan, brazil nut, butternut, filbert, 
hickory nut and walnut contain over 60 per cent, of fat. 

The ash content is comparatively high. Walnuts, almonds, 
etc., are rich in phosphoric acid. 

Cooking of Nuts, Nuts are more often eaten raw than 
cooked. But the peanut is not considered palatable when raw, 
and the chestnut is very indigestible unless the starch is 
cooked, when it becomes very easily digestible. Almonds are 
widely used in confectionery. 

Nuts may be used as staple articles of diet, in salad, soups, 
desserts, etc. 

To insure the best utilization of nuts they must be thor- 
oughly prepared for digestion by grinding or mastication. 
Nut butters offer much less resistance to digestion than raw 
nuts hastily eaten. On account of the high fat content, 
these products must be fresh, or the fat is likely to decompose 
(become rancid) and be irritating. 

Nut flours and meals are made into bread or porridge. 
Almond meal (containing no starch and very little sugar) 
is often utilized as a bread for diabetics. The chestnut can- 

*For further information, note ** Nuts and Their Uses as Food," Farmer's 
Bulletin No. 832, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



284 VEGETABLE OB PLANT FOODS 

not be so used, on account of its high content of starch. The 
peanut contains about 11 per cent, of carbohydrates, and 
hence is undesirable for this purpose. 

Digestibility, Nuts have been considered very indigestible. 
This is due largely to improper mastication or other prepara- 
tion for digestion ; to the fact that they are a very concen- 
trated food, and are often eaten when not needed. While 
nut protein, as nuts are ordinarily eaten, is not so easily nor 
completely digested as meat protein, there are experiments 
showing that on the whole, they are as thoroughly digested 
as an ordinary mixed diet. No experiments have been re- 
ported on the ease or rapidity of nut digestion. 

Nutritive Value, Nuts are a concentrated food. This is 
clearly shown by the following figures : 

1 lb. of Almonds yield 2805 Calories. 

1 lb. of Brazil nuts yield 3120 Calories. 

1 lb. of Filberts yield 3100 Calories. 

1 lb. of Hickory yield 3345 Calories. 

1 lb. of Peanuts yield 2610 Calories. 

1 lb. of Walnuts yield 3075 Calories. 

The high fuel value is due to the absence of water and the 
large amount of fat present. Nuts can be most advan- 
tageously used along with bulky foods, such as fruits and 
vegetables, and those lacking in fat, such as bread. In a 
vegetarian diet they become a valuable source of protein. 

FUNGI AND ALGiE 

These substances have little nutritive value. They may be 
considered as food adjuncts, rather than foods proper. 

Of fungi, mushrooms are the most commonly eaten. They 
are prized for their delicate flavor. Chemical analysis shows 
a high percentage of nitrogen, but although reported as pro- 
tein, it is largely in an indigestible form. 

Algae and lichens are much used as food in some parts of 
the world and high claims are sometimes made for their 
nutritive value, but digestion experiments show that, although 



FVNOI AND ALGJE 285 

they have a similar carbohydrate content to other succulent 
vegetable foods, these carbohydrates are not attacked by the 
ordinary digestive enzymes of the alimentary tract. 

The most important alga, from the dietetic standpoint, is 
Irish moss. It is commonly used in making jellies or sooth- 
ing beverages for invalids, but it has no nutritive value 
whatsoever. 

The lichen most used as food is Iceland moss. It has 
frequently been recommended as a food for diebetics, but it 
is practically indigestible. 



CHAPTER XI 
HUTfilTIOXTS DESSEKTS 

HOT AND COLD DESSEETS — PEOZEH DESSEETS 

80PT CTJSTAEDS, BAKED CTJSTAEDS, WHIPS AND SOTJPPLES, 
JUNHET, COENSTAECH PTTDDINQS OE BLANC MANQE, EICE, 
TAPIOCA, CEACHEE AND BEEAD PUDDINGS, SAUCES 

Properly prepared, the dessert may constitute a very large 
part of the nutriment represented in a meal. Dishes con- 
taining eggs, milk, cream, starches, etc., in large proportion 
are necessarily of high nutritive value, and become a useful 
means of administering these foods to patients who do not 
care for the flavor of plain milk, raw eggs, cereals, etc., or 
who are likely to become tired of them. For invalids, com- 
binations of foods should always be simple, because the more 
complex the mixture of protein, fat and carbohydrate, the 
longer and more complicated is the process of digestion. 
Hence junket, which is simply flavored, coagulated milk, is 
one of the most digestible of desserts. As a rule, less sugar 
is relished in sickness than in health; an excess is apt to 
cause nausea. 

Dainty service is most important. Baked custards and 
junkets are usually best served in the original individual 
molds to avoid danger of breaking, or in case of junket, of 
becoming watery. Sauces should never be poured over pud- 
dings till the moment of serving. Care must be taken to 
see that cold, desserts are thoroughly chilled; a lukewarm 
custard is frequently nauseating and always unappetizing. 



286 



SOFT CUSTARDS 287 

SOFT CXrSTABDS 

SOFT CTJSTABD NO. I, 198 CALOKXSS 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar* ^ cup milk. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Beat yolk, add salt and sugar 
and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Pour back into 
top of double boiler and stir constantly until it looks creamy 
or it coats the spoon and the foam has disappeared; then re- 
move iinmediately from hot water. Cool and add flavoring 
desired; vanilla^ orange or lemon extract. 

Note. — If custard curdles, place saucepan over cold water 
and beat until smooth. 

This custard is usually used for pudding sauces. 

SOFT CirSTAED NO. U, 410 CALOBJSS 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup milk. 3^ saltspoon salt. 

2 eggs. % teaspoon vanilla or grating of 
2 tablespoons sugar. nutmeg. 

Reserve one egg white for meringue. Blend according to 
Soft Custard No. I. This custard is usually used as a 
foundation for puddings. 

CUSTABD SUITABLE POB A DIABETIC, 880 CALOEIES 

(Two Servings.) 

I egg. Speck salt. 

Sweetina to taste. 1 cup milk. 

Scald the milk and add the liquid Sweetina to taste ; pour 
on to the well-beaten eggs. Cook and flavor as in preceding 
rule for soft custard or bake according to Cup Custard. 

KEKIlffGirE, 110 CALOBIESi 

1 egg "white. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Speck salt. Lemon or orange juice. 

Beat the egg until stiff and dry; add the salt^ sugar and 
lemon juice to taste. Beat very little after adding the sugr r. 

^Without lemon and orange juice^ 



288 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

PLOATINa ISLAND, 006 CALOEIES 

Chill Soft Custard No. II ; pour into serving dish and put 
meringue on top. 

OEANGE CTJSTABD 

Peel, slice and remove seeds of oranges, put into serving 
dish. Chill Soft Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put 
meringue on top. 

BANANA CTJSTAED 

Peel bananas and slice very thin with silver knife; put 
into serving dish and flavor with lemon juice. Chill Soft 
Custard No. II, pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

ALKOND PTJBDINa 

Line a glass dish with slices of stale cake and put in some 
saked almonds. Pour a little sherry wine on the cake. Chill 
Soft Custard No. II and pour over. Put meringue on top, 
with some salted almonds in it. 

PEACH CTJSTAED 

Put into serving dish alternate layers of stale cake and 
slices of fresh or canned peaches. Chill Soft Custard No. II, 
pour over fruit and put meringue on top. 

APPLE CTJSTAED 

Cool baked apples and put in serving dish. Heap meringue 
on top and brown slightly in the oven. Serve with Soft 
Custard No. I. 

BAKED CXrSTASDS 

BAKED OE CTJP CUSTABD, 319 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. 1^ tablespoon sugar. 

1 egg. Vs saltspoon salt. 

Flavoring to taste — nutmeg, cinnamon, vanilla, or lemon extract. 

Scald the milk; beat egg, add sugar and salt and pour on 
gradually the scalded milk. Flavor to taste and pour into 
custard cups; place in deep pan and pour boiling water 



BAKED CUSTARDS 289 

around until it almost Teaches the top of cups. Bake in 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. If cinnamon is used 
for flavor, put one-half square inch into the milk when, scald- 
ing. 

Note. — To test when done, dip a pointed knife into water 
and plunge into the middle of the custard. If it looks set 
and the knife comes out clear, the custard is done; if milky, 
it is not cooked enough. If cooked too long the custard will 
curdle. 

BAKED CUSTABD HO. n, 862 CALOBIES 
(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. 14 saltspoon salt. 

1 egg. Nutmeg. 

\y2 tablespoon sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Blend according to Baked Custard No. I. 

The smaller quantity of milk makes a little firmer custard* 

WHITE CUSTABD, 163 CALOBIES 

1 egg white. l^ saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon sugar. V^ cup rich milk. 

Beat white of egg until very light; add sugar and salt 
and pour on gradually the milk. Flavor with vanilla, orange 
or lemon extract. Bake in cups set in pan of boiling water 
in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. When firm set 
on ice and serve cold. This may be taken by patient when the 
yolk of egg is prohibited. 

CHOCOLATE CTJSTABD, fm CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 teaspoons Walter Baker's choc- 2 egg yolks, 
olate. 2 teaspoons sugar. 

2 tablespoons milk. Speck salt. 

6 tablespoons rich milk. 

Grate chocolate and mix with the two tablespoons milk; 
stir over the fire until smooth, add the rich milk, the well- 
beaten egg yolks, sugar and salt. Pour into custard cups set 
in pan of hot water (nearly to the top). Cook until custard 
is set. Serve hot or cold. 



290 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — The chocolate and yolk of egg contain a large 
amount of fat. Do not serve to a patient who cannot digest 
it. 

MALTED MILK CTJSTABD, 107 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon' Horlick's Malted ^ cup hot water. 
Milk. Salt. 

1 egg yolk. 

Mix the Malted Milk powder with enough of the hot 
water to make a smooth paste^ add remainder of water and 
pour it gradually on to the well-beaten yolk. Butter custard 
cup, pour in the mixture and let it stand in a pan af boil- 
ing water in a moderate oven until custard is set. 

BAKED CABAMEL CTJSTABD, 293 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar, 

i egg. A few drops of vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Scald the milk. Put the sugar in a small saucepan, place 
over heat and stir constantly until the sugar is melted and 
a light brown color. Add milk and pour over the slightly- 
beaten egg. Add flavoring. Strain into buttered custard 
cups, place in a pan of hot water and bake until firm in a 
slow oven. 

PEFTONOIDS CUSTABD, 453 CALOBIES 

2 tablespoons of Dry Pepionoids Yolks of 2 eggs. 
Soluble. 2 teaspoons of sugar. 

2 tablespoons of milk. A pinch of salt. 

6 tablespoons of thin cream. 

Dissolve Dry Peptonoids Soluble in the milk. Add the 
well-beaten egg yolks, .sugar and salt. Pour into eustard 
cups, set in pan of hot water, cook until set. 

WHIPS AND SOTTFFLES 

Dainty and nutritious ways to serve the uncooked and 
slightly cooked white of eggs. 



WHIPS AND SOUFFLES 291 

m 

TBtnT WHIP, 125-160 CALOBIES 

(Two Servings.) 

Any fruit, fresh, canned or dried (properly prepared), or 
jellies may be used. 

2 to 4 tablespoons fruit pulp. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 
White 1 egg. (or to taste). 

Lemon juice. 

Prepare the fruit pulp by scraping, grating or rubbing 
through a strainer. Beat the white of egg on platter until 
8ti£f. Add pulp, sugar and lemon juice to taste, and beat 
until very stiff. Heap in center of serving dish and pour 
Soft Custard No. I around it. 

Note. — The apple is a favorite fruit for these whips. 
The juice of fresh fruits in season used with the raw white 
of egg makes an appetizing as well as a very nutritious lunch 
for the sick. 

STEAWBEKEY WHIP, 327 CALOEIES 

(Four Servings.) 

1 cup fresh strawberries. % cup powdered sugar. 

Whites 2 eggs. 

Wash and hull the strawberries and mash slightly. Beat 
whites of eggs until stiff, add sugar and berries; beat until 
very stiff, using a broad bowl and a wire egg-beater, beating 
with a long, steady stroke. Pile lightly in a glass dish and 
serve with white or sponge cake. 

GEAPE WHIP, 1445 CALOEIES 

(Six Servings.) 

% cup Welch's grape juice. 5 tablespoons sugar. 

White 1 egg. 1 cup double cream. 

Beat the white of egg until foamy, add the grape juice 
mixed with the sugar and, lastly, the cream, then beat with 
a whip churn. Take off the froth as it rises and drain on 
a sieve. Pour the unwhipped mixture into small, high glasses 
and pile the whip on top. Serve cold. 



292 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

OMELET SOUPPLE, 280 CALOBIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. Speck salt. 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Whites 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons lemon juice. Strawberry or fruit jam. 

To the well-beaten yolk add the sugar, salt, Jemon juice 
and rind. Beat the whites to the stiffest possible froth, then 
cut and fold into the yolk. Have ready a small baking dish, 
buttered and spread with a layer of the fruit ; pour the omelet 
over it and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty min- 
utes. Test as for baked custard. Serve at once. 

Note. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

CUSTABD SOUPPLE, 297 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% tablespoon butter. Yolk 1 egg, 

1% tablespoons flour. ly^ tablespoons sugar. 

^/4 cup scalded milk. White 1 egg. 

Melt butter, add flour and gradually the scalding milk. 
Cook thoroughly, pour on to the well-beaten yolk, add sugar 
and cool. Fold into mixture the well-beaten white. Turn 
into buttered custard cups and bake about fifteen minutes, 
until firm — determined by pressing with the finger. Take 
from oven and serve at once, or it will fall. Serve with 
Foamy Sauce. 

LEMOH SOUFFLE, 275 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yolk 1 egg. 14 cup sugar. 

Juice 14 lemon. White 1 egg. 

Thoroughly beat yolk, add sugar, slowly, beating con* 
stantly ; add lemon juice. Fold in the white beaten until 
dry. Pour into buttered custard cups, set in pan of hot 
water and bake twenty minutes or until firm, testing by press- 
ing with finger. Serve plain or with Foamy Sauce. 

1 Without jam. 



JUNKET 293 

PEACH MEEINGUE, 310 CALOEIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup yellow peaches. Bread crumbs. 

Sugar to taste. White 1 egg. 

Yolk 1 egg. 1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 

Stew peaches in a very little water, sweeten to taste and 
stir in the well-beaten yolk. Butter a pudding dish and 
cover bottom with fine bread crumbs, put in the peaches and 
bake fifteen minutes. Cover with meringue made of white 
of egg and the powdered sugar; brown slightly in the oven. 
Serve cold. 

JXTNEET 

Junket is a healthful and dainty dessert made simply of 
pure milk, and containing enough of the active principle 
of rennet found in the Junket Tablet to coagulate the milk. 
It is nutritious and has the added advantage of being easily 
digested. 

Milk or cream that has been boiled, sterilized, condensed 
or evaporated cannot be used in making junket, and care 
must be taken not to heat the milk more than lukewarm, as 
hot milk spoils the action of the tablet. 

For diabetic patients Sweetina may be used as a substitute 
for sugar in these recipes. 

PLAIN J17NXET, 296 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. ^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
^^ teaspoon brandy or wine. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add sugar and flavoring; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Pour mixture immediately into sherbet cups or cham- 
pagne glasses, partly fill. Stand in warm room undisturbed 
until firm like jelly, then put on ice to cool. Serve with 
whipped cream heaped on top, with one-half teaspoon bright 
jelly for garnish, 

^Without bread crumbs and suxar. 



^94 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Note. — For variety, whole strawberries or raspberries may- 
be served with junket, or chopped English walnuts with the 
whipped cream. For garnish, candied cherries may be used. 

If desired, the brandy and sugar may be omitted in making 
junket and served plain, with sugar and a grating of nutmeg. 

CUSTAED JUNKET, 512 OALOKIES 

(Two Servings.) 

Yg cup hot milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. y^ teaspoon vanilla. 

2 tablespoons sugar. ^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 
% cup lukewarm milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

Beat the egg, add two tablespoons sugar; pour on grad- 
ually the hot milk. Cook in top of double boiler; stir con- 
stantly until it thickens; take at once from the fire and cool. 
Mix two tablespoons sugar with the lukewarm milk, add to 
the cooled custard and blend thoroughly. When lukewarm 
add* vanilla and the tablet dissolved in cold water; finish as 
for Plain Junket. 

COCOA JUNKET, 280 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 tablespoon cocoa. 14 Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

2 teaspoons sugar. 1 teaspoon cold water. 
2 tablespoons boiling water. 3 drops vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 

Mix the cocoa, sugar, boiling water, and cook over heat 
and rub to a smooth paste; add gradually the fresh cool 
milk. Heat until lukewarm (not more), add vanilla and 
then tablet dissolved in the cold water. Finish as for Plain 
Junket and serve with sweetened cream, or a Soft Custard. 

COFFEE JUNKET, 969 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons boiled coffee. y^ Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

1 scant cup milk. 1 teaspoon cold water. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the coffee and sugar; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Finish, as for Plain Junket. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING OR BLANC MANOE 295 



COKNSTABCH FIJDDINO OK BLANC KANOE 

Starch of various kinds is used in milk puddings. For 
children, invalids and dyspeptics such puddings are admirable. 
They must be thoroughly cooked, tl^t the action of the heat 
may affect the starch. The combination of starch and milk 
gives a wholesome nutritive food, and the addition of eggs 
increases the food value. 

C0BN8TAECH PUDDING, 829 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

1% tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg, 

1^ tablespoons sugar. Vanilla. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar 
and salt thoroughly; add slowly the scalded milk, stirring 
constantly. Eeturn to top of boiler and cook twenty min- 
utes, stirring constantly for the first five or six minutes, then 
occasionally. Eemove from fire and while very hot fold in 
lightly, but thoroughly, the well-beaten white of egg. When 
partially cooled add flavoring to taste; put into wet cup& 
or molds, cool and then stand for several hours on ice. Re- 
move from molds. Serve with a soft custard, mashed fresh 
berries, or whipped cream. Vary the pudding by adding a 
little Walter Baker's chocolate, melted. 

PINEAPPLE CEEAH, 340 CALOEIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. Speck salt. 

IV2 tablespoons cornstarch. White 1 egg, 

IV2 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons grated pineapple. 

Follow directions for Cornstarch Pudding, adding the 
pineapple instead of vanilla. Pour into individual molds 
and serve cold with cream. 

CORNSTARCH PRTIIT JELLY, 166 CALORIES 1 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup raspberry juice. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 

Sugar. 

1 Without sugar. , 



296 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Sweeten the juice to taste and heat to boiling point. Make 
a smooth paste of the cornstarch and a little cold water, add 
filowly to the juice and cook thirty minutes in top of double 
boiler, stirring constantly at first. Pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold with whipped cream and fresh, whole berries. 

MALTED HILK BLANC HANGE, 280 CALOEIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 tablespoons Horlick's Malted Speck salt. 

Milk. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons powdered arrow- 1^ cups boiling water, 
root. ^4 teaspoon vanilla. 

Mix the arrowroot and Malted Milk powder with a little 
cold water into a smooth paste. Add the boiling water slowly, 
<jook in double boiler about twenty minutes, or until arrow- 
root is thoroughly cooked, add vanilla and pour into cold, 
wet molds. Chill and serve with Soft Custard or whipped 
cream. 

Note. — One teaspoon powdered coffee may be added to 
above before cooking, for Coffee Blanc Mange. 

nutbitiohs wheat pudding, 252 calories 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup milk. White 1 egg. 

2l^ tablespoons flour. ^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Blend flour with a little of the cold milk. Scald remainder 
of milk and add flour mixture; cook thoroughly; add salt 
and flavoring and fold in the white of egg beaten slightly. 
Put into cold, wet mold, cool and set in ice box to harden. 
Serve with Soft Custard or whipped cream, or sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and pour over it one-fourth cup of fresh 
fruit juice or crushed fruit. 

GLUTEN PUDDING (FOB THE DIABETIC), 861 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

3 tablespoons Gum Gluten Flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 pint hot milk. 1 saltspoon salt. 

1 pint cold milk. Cinnamon. 

1 egg. Sweetina. 



mCE PUDDINGS 297 

Blend Gum Gluten Flour with a little of the cold milk, 
add gradually to one pint hot milk. Cook thoroughly. Beat 
egg, add cold milk, the cooked mixture and salt, cinnamon 
and Sweetina to taste. Bake thirty minutes. A little fruit 
improves the flavor. Serve with whipped cream. 

lEISH KOSS JELLY, 677 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

Yg cup Irish moss. Juice 1 lemon or orange. 

2 cups boiling water. % cup sugar. 

4 figs. 

Soak, pick over and wash the moss. Put it into the boil- 
ing water, add the figs cut into strips and simmer about 
twenty minutes, or until it is very thick when dropped on 
a cold plate. Add lemon juice and sugar. Strain into a 
cold, wet mold. 

IRISH KOSS BLANC MANGE, 296 CALOBIES 

(Four Servings.) 

^^ cup Irish moss. ^4 saltspoon salt. 

1^2 cups cold water. Ys teaspoon vanilla. 

1% cups milk. 

Soak the moss in cold water about fifteen minutes. Ee- 
move from water, pick over and put into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook about twenty minutes, or until it thickens 
when dropped on a cold plate. Add salt, strain and flavor. 
Strain again and turn into small cold, wet molds. Chill and 
serve with cream and sugar or sliced fruit. 

BICE FTJDDINGS 

BOILED BICE, 100 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 tablespoons rice. Yz teaspoon salt. 

2 cups boiling water. 

Wash rice thoroughly and add gradually to the boiling 
salted water, care being taken that the water does not stop 
boiling. Boil uncovered twenty minutes, or until grains 



298 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

are soft. Turn into a strainer and pour over it one cup of 
hot water and drain, put in oven a few moments to dry, with 
oven door open. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream or 
as a pudding with cooked dates and whipped cream, or plain 
with Soft Custard. 

Note. — Keep rice well covered with water while cooking. 

Dates. — Cut in small pieces, add a little water to partly 
cover and cook until soft. Simmer and do not stir. 

ST£AK£D EICE, 265 CALOBXES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yq cup rice. % teaspoon salt. 

1 cup boiling water. 

Pick over the rice, wash in three or four waters; put it 
with the boiling water and salt in upper part of double 
boiler. Do not stir while cooking. Steam one hour, or until 
the grains are tender. Serve as a cereal with sugar or cream 
or as a pudding with Soft Custard, or with sugar and cream. 

Note. — A few dates cut in narrow strips may be added 
just before serving if desired. Part milk may be used in 
the cooking. 

PEACHES AND BICE 

Serve boiled or steamed rice with sections of fresh, juicy 
peaches, or with fresh berries. Serve with sugar and cream. 

SOTTTHEBN SNOWBALLS, 367 CALORIES 

(^Individual Rule.) 

14 cup rice. ^ teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Pick over rice, wash in several waters and put with milk 
and salt in top of double boiler. Cook until the milk is ab- 
sorbed and rice is tender. Do not stir while cooking. Dip 
egg cups in cold water and pack with rice carefully but 
tightly, turn out on serving dish, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, put a candied cherry or a strawberry on top, and serve 
with whipped tjream. 



RICE PUDDINGS 299 

PLAIN KICE PUDDING, 746 CALOKIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

1 cup steamed rice. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup scalded milk. i^ saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. y^ cup stoned raisins 

1 egg- 
Scald milk and add butter. Beat egg, add sugar and salt 
and pour on slowly the scalding milk. Put in pudding dish 
with rice and raisins. Put bits of butter on top and bake in 
a moderate oven until custard is set. Serve with Hard 
Sauce. 

Xote. — Do not use raisins in case of bowel trouble. 

BICE XEEINGITB, 5U CALOEISS 

(Two Servings.) 

^^ cup cold cooked rice. Egg yolk. 

1 cup scalded milk. Vanilla. 

2y2 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg white. 

^ saltspoon salt. 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Blend rice and milk and soak until soft. Beat the yolk, 
add sugar and salt and gradually the hot milk and rice. 
Cook until it thickens like soft custard. Add flavoring to 
taste and pour into pudding dish or custard cups. Make a 
meringue of the white of egg and powdered sugar, cover the 
padding and brown slightly in the oven. 

CBEAH OP BICE PUDDING, 657 CALOBIES 

(Three Servings.) 

14 cup rice (well washed). 1 saltspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 1 pint milk. 

Mix all ingredients in a small baking dish. Bake two 
hours, slowly at first until rice is softened and thickened in 
the milk. Cut the crust several times, stirring to the bottom 
gently. The crust will then dissolve in the pudding, giving 
it a creamy color. Then let it brown slightly. 



300 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 



TAPIOCA CBEAH, 488 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

lYg tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
3 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 

Yg saltspoon salt. Flavoring. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix tapioca, sugar and salt ; 
add slowly to the scalding milk, return to double boiler and 
cook fifteen minutes. Add the yolk and white of the egg, 
beaten separately. Bemove from fire and add flavoring de-' 
sired. Serve plain or with any fresh fruit in season. 

PLAIN TAPIOCA, 451 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

lYz tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 
2 tablespoons sugar. ^^ cup raisins. 

Salt. Nutmeg. 

Scald milk in double boiler and gradually add the tapioca 
and sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. Add salt, nutmeg to taste 
and seeded raisins. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Note. — Raisins should never be used in bowel trouble. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA, 718 CALOEIES 

(Three Servings.) 

14 cup Minute tapioca. ly^ cups boiling water. 

^4 cup sugar. 1 cup canned grated pineapple. 

Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler until clear, about fifteen min- 
utes. Pour over the grated pineapple and decorate the top 
of the pudding with currant jelly. 

APPLE TAPIOCA, 345 CALOEIES 1 

(Three Servings.) 

14 cup Minute tapioca. 1 pint boiling water. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 3 tart apples. 

Speck salt. Sugar, nutmeg. 

^Without extra sugar. 



TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 301 

Mix tapioca^ sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water, and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Pour this 
onto the apples, which have been pared and cored and the 
holes filled with sugar and a little nutmeg. Cover the dish 
and bake one-half hour. Serve with cream and sugar. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA, 218 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

IV^ tablespoons Minute tapioca. ^ cup raspberry juice. 
iy2 tablespoons sugar. Juice ^ lemon. 

1 cup boiling water. Speck salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt, pour on slowly the boiling 
water and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add rasp- 
berry and lemon juice. When it begins to jelly, beat smooth 
with a spoon. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

DATE TAPIOCA, 660 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

1^ tablespoons Minute tapioca. 1 cup scalded milk. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 1 egg. 

Yg saltspoon salt. % cup chopped dates. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; add gradually the hot milk 
and cook in double boiler fifteen minutes. Add the beaten 
egg yolk and cook three minutes longer. Stir in the dates. 
Make a meringue of the white of egg, heap it on top and 
brown delicately in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE OR COCOA BLANC MANGE, 827 CALORIES i 

(Three Servings.) 

V4 c"P Minute tapioca. IV^ cups hot chocolate or cocoa. 

% cup sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

y^ teaspoon salt. 

Mix tapioca, sugar and salt; pour on gradually the hot 
cocoa and cook in double boiler about twenty minutes. Be- 
move from heat, add vanilla and pour into cold, wet molds. 
Serve cold, plain or with whipped cream or Soft Custard. 

^ Calculated with chocolatCt recipe pag^e 185. 



302 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 



BREAD FIJDDINOS 

The principle of employing farinaceous matter which has 
already been subjected to heat (so that a considerable con- 
version of starch has gone on before the human salivary 
diastase comes into play) is carried out in practice in the 
form of bread puddings. 

PLAIN BREAD PtrDBIKG, 900 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread. 2 tablespoons sugar (to. taste )• 

1 cup milk. ^ saltspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. y^ cup seeded raisins. 

1 egg- 
Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg and add sugar 
and salt; pour on gradually the scalding milk. Cut the 
bread into one-half inch cubes and add with the raisins. 
Pour into well-buttered pudding dish, put bits of butter on 
top and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set. 
Serve with Hard Sauce or cream and sugar. 
Note. — Do not serve raisins in bowel trouble. 

ORANGE BREAD PUDDING, 710 CALORIES i 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread. 2 oranges. 

14 cup milk. Sugar to taste. 

2 eggs. 

Soak bread in the milk until soft and beat lightly with 
fork; add the grated rind of one orange and the juice of 
both; sweeten. Beat the whites very light and add to above 
mixture. Pour into custard cups and cook as for baked cus- 
tard — about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve plain or with 
Hard Sauce. 

Note. — Omit orange rind if it will interfere medicinally. 

1 Without sugar. 



BREAD PUDDINGS 303 

XEXON BEEAD PXTDSINO, 548 CALOKIES 

(Two Servings.) 

^ cup milk. 3 tablespoons sugar. 

% cup soft bread crumbs. l^ tablespoon butter. 

Yolk 1 egg. Grated rind % lemoB. 

Scald milk and add butter. Beat the egg yolk, add sugar 
and salt and pour on gradually the scalded milk. Add the 
bread crumbs and grated lemon rind; pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen min- 
utes, or until set like baked custard. 

Make a meringue by beating the white of egg very stiff, 
adding two tablespoons powdered sugar and juice of one- 
fourth lemon. Cover the pudding with it and set in the 
oven till a dainty brown. 

Note. — Do not use lemon rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally, 

JELLY BBEAD PlTDDIirG 

Prepare the same as for Lemon Bread Pudding, omitting 
the lemon rind and juice. Spread any tart jelly over pudding 
when baked and add meringue. 



CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING, 904 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup stale bread crumbs. 2|4 tablespoons sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

1 ounce (or square) Walter Spedc salt. 

Baker's unsweetened chocolate. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Melt chocolate over hot water 
and add to it the sugar and salt. To the soaked crumbs add 
the chocolate mixture, the beaten egg and vanilla. Put into 
buttered custard cups and bake in a moderate oven about 
twenty minutes, or until custard is set. Serve hot, plain or 
with Hard Sauce. 



304 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CHEESE PTTDBINO (FOE THE DIABETIC), 1400 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

2 eggs. Speck soda. 

1 cup milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 

% cup cheese. Salt. 

1 cup Gum Gluten bread crumbs. Cayenne. 

Dry the bread, roll and soak a short time in the milk. 
Beat the eggs lightly, add the milk and crumbs, grated cheese, 
salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Beat well, pour into but- 
tered pan and bake in a hot oven half an hour. Serve im- 
mediately, as five minutes^ delay will spoil. 

GLTTTEH BROWN BETTY (EOR THE DIABETIC), 222 CALORIES i 

3 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. Sugar. 

1 large sour apple. Cinnamon. 

2 teaspoons butter. 

Into a well-buttered individual baking dish place one 
crushed Biscuit Crisp; onto this put one-half apple cooked 
as for apple sauce or raw cut in thin slices or chopped; 
season with sugar, speck of cinnamon and bits of butter. 
Add another layer of crumbs (one Biscuit Crisp), then the 
remaining half of apple and seasoning, lastly crumbs. Place 
bits of butter on top, put in slow oven, and bake. 

CRACKER FUDDINOS 

CRACKER PUDDING, 397 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1^ soda crackers. Yolk 1 egg. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

% teaspoon salt. 

Eoll the crackers and soak in the milk. Beat yolks and 
sugar well together and add to pudding with salt. Bake 
one-half hour. Make a meringue with the whites of the 
eggs, pile lightly on top and put in oven till golden brown. 
Serve hot. 

^ Without sugar. 



PUDDING SAUCES ^ 305 

ENGLISH WALNirrS AND BISCTHT CEISPS (FOE THE DIA- 
BETIC), 154 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

2 Gum Gluten Biscuit Crisps. 4 walnut halves. 

2 hot tablespoons thin cream. Parsley. 
y^ teaspoon butter. 

Butter Biscuit Crisps and place in oven until well heated 
through. Dip the nuts in melted butter and cook, turning 
often until heated. Cover each Crisp with one tablespoon of 
hot cream and serve two huts on each Crisp; garnish with 
sprig of parsley. 

Xote. — Buttered Biscuit Crisps may be served heated and 
served with ground nut meats over top. 

FTJDDINO SAUCES 

HAED SAUCE, 650 CALORIES 

(Four Servings.) 

3 tablespoons butter. % white of egg, 

6 tablespoons powdered sugar. l^ tablespoon cream. 
Nutmeg. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually. When light and 

creamy add the unbeaten white of egg and the cream, a drop 

or two at a time. Season highly. Heap on serving dish and 

cool. 

TOAXY SAUCE, 863 CALORIES 

(Three Servings.) 

14 cup butter. *^ egg. 

Yg cup powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon wine. 

Cream butter; add sugar gradually, the well-beaten egg 
and the wine. Heat over hot water, beating constantly* 
Serve immediately. 

TO WHIP CREAM 

V2 cup thick cream (40%) =432 Calories. 

Do not have. cream too thick; season with sugar and any- 
flavoring desired ; put in bowl and set bowl in another utensil 
containing a little cold water and ice. Beat cream with Dover 



306 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

€gg-beater until stiff enough to keep its form. Set on ice to 
keep cold. 

Note. — Do not beat too long or it may turn to butter. To 
one-half cup thick cream add three tablespoons milk. 

WHIPPED CEEAH NO. II. 

1 egg white = 10 to 15 Calories. 

Follow the above recipe, and add the white of one egg 
heaten stiff, folding it into the stiffly-beaten cream. 

FBTHT SAUCE, 75 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

6 tablespoons fruit juice. % teaspoon arrowroot or com- 

starch. 

Blend starch with a little cold water and pour into the 
hot fruit juice. Boil two or three minutes. Sweeten if de- 
sired. 

OBANGE SATIGS 

See chapter " Gelatin ** for recipe. Page 210. 

FBOZEXr DESSEBT 

ICE CREAK — SHEEBET — ICES 

Frozen dishes not only constitute an acceptable form of 
serving nutriment, but often are a means of furnishing addi- 
tional liquid and relieving thirst. Ices and sherbets made 
-with fruits and water, have a dietetic value similar to acid 
beverages. Frozen cream, milk, junkets, custards, etc., have 
the same nutritive value as the same foods served without 
freezing. 

In giving all very cold dishes, care must be taken not to 
interfere with the digestion of other foods. Chilling the 
mouth hinders the formation and activity of saliva; chilling 
the stomach retards gastric digestion. The latter effect can 
be avoided by eating ice-cold food very slowly, so that it is 
partially warmed before reaching the stomach. Frozen foods 
should not be given when ptyalin digestion is especially im- 
portant. 



ICE CREAM 30r 

General Rules for Freeting. Ice (or snow) and salt are 
required for the process of freezing. The salt melts the ice, 
and in melting absorbs heat from the mixture, thus causing it 
to freeze. The finer the ice, the more quickly the freezing 
will be accomplished. In packing a freezer allow three level 
measures of ice to one of salt. This proportion is found best 
for fine-grained mixture. The can should not be filled more 
than three-fourths full, as the liquid expands in freezing, and 
if over-crowded, the cream will become coarse-grained and the 
cover may be pushed up allowing the salt water to get in. 

Freezing in Small Amounts. Put mixture to be frozen 
into a water-tight baking powder can, or a small tin pail with 
cover, and stand in large pail or bowl. Pack the ice and salt 
alternately under and around it (ice pounded fine), using 
one part salt to three parts ice. Bemove cover, and beat 
mixture with Dover egg-beater until foamy, replace cover and 
turn can, or pail, back and forth; remove cover occasionally 
and scrape the frozen mixture from side of can, and beat 
thoroughly with fork. The mixture will freeze in twenty 
minutes. When frozen, place a narrow strip of cloth, dipped 
in melted beef fat or lard, around the outside of cover to keep 
out the salt water. Bepack in ice, or ice and salt, and cover 
well until wanted. 

Serve frozen dishes in sherbet, champagne, or high glasses ; 
pass on small plate covered with doily, and at the side of the 
plate a small cake, wafer or a few orange straws may be 
added ; a rose will add to the attractiveness. 

ICE CBEAM 

YAiriLLA ICE CEEAH, 310 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

l^ cup thin cream or ^ cup 14 teaspoon vanilla. 

heavy cream and l^ cup milk. Speck salt. 
ll^ tablespoons sugar. 

Blend all the ingredients; when sugar is dissolved, freeze 
in a small pail according to general directions. 

^ Calculated with thin cream. 



808 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAK. 858 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

^2 cup thin cream or y^ cup ly^ tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and ^ cup milk. 1 tablespoon boiling water. 

y^ square Walter Baker's choco- % teaspoon vanilla. 

late. Speck salt. 

Melt the chocolate over hot water, add the boiling water, 
sugar and hot cream. Cool, add vanilla and salt and freeze 
in small pail according to general directions. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM, 852 CALORIES i 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yz cup thin cream or 14 cup 1^ tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
1 tablespoon ground coffee. y^ cup milk. 

Mix coffee and milk, put into double boiler and cook five 
minutes. Strain through cheese-cloth and strainer; add 
fiugar, salt and cream. Cool and freeze in small pail, accord- 
ing to general directions. 

JUNKET ICE CREAM, 690 CALORIES 1 

(Two Servings.) 

^^ cup cream. i/a Hansen's Junket Tablet. 

^^ cup milk. 2 teaspoons cold water. 

2y2 tablespoons sugar. % teaspoon vanilla. 

Heat the milk until lukewarm, add the sugar and vanilla ; 
ivhen sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold 
water. Allow it to stand in warm room until firm, then beat 
thoroughly and turn into small pail and freeze according to 
General Eule. 

Note. — A variety may be made by adding two teaspoons 
cocoa dissolved in a little boiling water. Add to mixture 
before adding the tablet. Serve the creams plain or with 
-whole strawberries, etc. 

Note. — The junket improves the body or consistency of 
any cream. 

^ Calculated with thin cream. 



ICE CREAM 309 

GRAPE JUICE ICE CBEAH, 490 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup thin cream. ^ cup sugar. 

14 cup Welch's grape juice. 

Scald one-half cup of the cream and add the sugar. Cool, 
add remainder of cream and the grape juice and freeze accord- 
ing to general directions. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAH, 356 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup thin cream or ^ cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and l^ cup milk. Speck salt. 
y^ cup strawberries. 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar and allow them to 
stand five minutes. Add the cream and milk and freeze in 
small pail according to general directions. 

Note. — The berries may be mashed and strained through 
cheese-cloth. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAH, 363 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup thin cream or ^ cup 2 tablespoons sugar. 

heavy cream and 14 cup milk. Speck salt. 
^ cup raspberries. 

Mash the raspberries and strain through cheese-cloth. Add 
cream, milk and sugar. Freeze in small pail according to 
general directions. 

PEACH ICE CREAH, 390 CALORIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

14 cup thin cream or % cup 14 cup peaches, 
heavy cream and ^ cup milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

Mix peaches and sugar and press through a potato-ricer 
or sieve. Scald cream and milk. Cool and add peaches and 
sugar. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 



810 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

CABAKEL ICE CBEAM, 840 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

Yg cup thin cream or ^ cup 1^4 tablespoons boiling water. 

thick cream and y^ cup milk. % teaspoon vanilla. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Speck salt. 

Into saucepan place the sugar and stir constantly until 
melted. Add water and boil until reduced to one and one- 
half tablespoon. Add cream very slowly, vanilla, salt, and 
freeze. 

CABAMEI ICE CBEAM NO. II, 5942 CALOBIES 

(Ten Servings.) 

1 pint milk.. 2 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. Speck salt. 

7 tablespoons flour. 1 quart cream. 

1 scant cup sugar for caramel. 

Scald the milk ; mix one cup sugar, flour and salt, add the 
eggs and beat all together until perfectly smooth and light. 
Add the scalding milk gradually, beating until very smooth. 
Cook in double boiler twenty minutes. 

While cooking, prepare caramel. Put the second cup of 
sugar in saute pan, and cook until melted and a delicate 
brown ; add gradually the custard, stirring constantly ; strain 
and cool. Add the cream (which has been scalded and 
cooled) and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — This may be used for vanilla ice-cream by omit- 
iing the caramel and using one tablespoon vanilla and enough 
of the second cup of sugar to sweeten. 

MALTED MILK ICE CBEAM, 8900 CALORIES i 

(Ten Servings.) 

% pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 pint cream. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

1 quart water. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
White 1 egg. 

Mix the malted milk powder, sugar and boiling water, stir- 
ting until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate and 
cook until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla, cool and freeze. 

^ Thick cream. 



ICE CREAM 311 

When partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of egg, and 
finish freezing. 

JTote. — If strawberry or other flavor is desired, it may be 
used in place of vanilla. 

PEPTOHOIDS ICE CBEAH, 1274 CALORIES 

4 tablespoons Dry Feptonoids % pi°^ ^^^^ cream. 

Soluble. 1 oz. chocolate. 

% cup sugar. % tablespoon of vanilla. 

1 pint of water. White of 1 egg. 

Mix Dry Peptonoids Soluble, sugar and boiling water. 
Stir until smooth. Add cream and scraped chocolate. Cook 
until chocolate is melted. Add vanilla; cool and freeze. 
When partially frozen, add well-beaten white of egg. 

FBOZEN CirSTABD, 849 CALORIES 

(Two Servings.) 

1 cup hot milk 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 egg. l^ teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt and gradually the 
scalded milk. Cool, add flavoring and freeze. 

HOT COCOA SAUCE FOB ICE CBEAM, 1035 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

\% cups water. 2 tablespoons Walter Baker's co- 

1 cup sugar. coa. 

1 tablespoon arrowroot. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Speck salt. 

Boil together the water and sugar for two minutes; add 
the arrowroot mixed with a little cold water, stir for a mo- 
ment, then boil until clear. Add the cocoa, which has been 
mixed with a little hot water, and the salt, and boil three 
minutes longer. Remove from the fire and add the vanilla. 



312 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

SHEBBET 

LEMON HILX SHEBBET, 299 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

^^ cup milk. Juice of l^ lemon. 

y^ cup sugar. 1 drop lemon extract. 

Blend all the ingredients and freeze in email pail accord- 
ing to general directions, 

LEMON MILK SHEBBET, NO. H, 2390 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. Juice 2 lemons. 

1 pint sugar. 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

To the lemon juice add the sugar, milk and extract. 
[Freeze immediately in large freezer, 

STBAWBEBBY SHEBBET, 357 CALOBIES 

' (Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup milk. 14 cup sugar. 

1 cup strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. To the juice add sugar and 
milk. Freeze in small pail according to general directions. 

STBAWBEBBY SHEBBET NO. II, 2940 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 2 cups sugar. 

2 quarts strawberries. 

Mash the berries and strain. Add sugar and milk. Freeze 
in large freezer. 

CLAM SHEBBET, 128 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup milk. Speck paprika. 

l^ cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Eule. Serve in 
small dainty glasses with a teaspoon of unsweetened whipped 
cream on top. The milk and clam taken in this way are 
often more acceptable to the patient than when served in 
liquid form. 



SHERBET 313 

Note. — The paprika may be omitted if condiments are not 
desirable. 

HALTED MILK SHESBET, 2148 CALOBIES 

(Six Servings.) . 

% pound Horlick's Malted Milk. 1 tablespoon vanilla. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 ounces chocolate. 

3 pints water. White 1 egg. 

Make a smooth paste of the malted milk powder and a 
little of the water, then add the rest of the water gradually, 
'the sugar, vanilla and the chocolate grated. Freeze. When 
partly frozen, add the well-beaten white of Qgg and finish 
freezing. 

GBAPE SHEBBET, 3265 CALQBIES 

(Ten Servings.) 

3 cups Welch's grape juice. 3 cups sugar. 

1 quart water. White 2 eggs. 

Blend the grape juice, water and sugar. Partly freeze. 
Eeat the whites of eggs lightly, add two tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar ; add to sherbet and continue freezing until hard. 
Eemove dasher and allow it to stand for one hour to ripen,; 
Pack carefully. 

OBAPE AMBBOSIA, 5243 CALOBIES 

(Twelve Servings.) 

1 quart milk. 1 pint Welch's grape juice. 

2 quarts water. 1 can grated pineapple. 
314 cups sugar. Juice 3 lemons. 
Whites 4 eggs. 

Mix together milk, water, sugar and fruit and partially 
freeze. Add the well-beaten whites of eggs and continue 
freezing until hard. 

ICES 

OBANGE ICE, 252 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Juice IV2 oranges. ^ cup sugar. 



V- / 



314 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

Mix together all the ingredients and freeze in small pail 
according to general directions. 

ORANGE ICE NO. II, 990 CALOBIES 

(Four Servings.) 

2 tablespoons shredded gelatin. 1 cup sugar. 

14 cup cold water. 1 cup orange juice. 

114 cups boiling water. Juice 1 lemon. 

Soak gelatin in the cold water twenty minutes; add boil- 
ing water; when gelatin is dissolved add the sugar, orange 
and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

OBANOE ICE NO. HI, 1922 CALOBIES 

(Four Servings.) 

1 pint orange juice. Grated rind 1 orange. 

Juice 2 lemons. 1 quart water. 

1 pint sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes ; add fruit juice 
and rind of orange. Cool, strain and freeze in large freezer. 

Note. — Do not use orange rind if it will interfere me- 
dicinally. 

LEMON ICE, 257 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

V2 cup "^A^e^* 4 tablespoons sugar. 

Juice 1 lemon. 

Mix all the ingredients and freeze in small pail according 
to general directions. 

FBUIT ICE, 497 CALOBIES 

(Individual Rule.) 

% banana. Juice % lemon. 

% cup strawberries. ^ cup cold water. 

Juice l^ orange. Vz cup sugar. 

Put the fruit into a coarse strainer (or a potato-ricer), rub*- 
bing it through into a large bowl. Pour the cold water 
through the strainer. Add the sugar, stir well and freeze 
according to general directions. 



ICES 315 

PimSAPPLE ICE, S42 CALOBISS 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup Hawaiian grated pine- ^ cup water. 

apple. 2 tablespoons sugar. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Boil the water and sugar together about three minutes; 
add pineapple and lemon juice. Cool, strain and freeze ac- 
cording to general directions. 

OBAPE FBAPPE, 2175 CALORIES 

(Six Servings.) 

1 pint Welch's grape juice. 1 pint water. 

Juice 1 lemon. 2 cups sugar. 

Boil the water and sugar together for five minutes; cool 
and add the grape and lemon juice. Freeze to the con- 
sistency of a mush. Serve in tall glasses with sweetened 
whipped cream piled high on top. 

CLAM PBAPPE 

(Individual Rule.) 

% cup cold water. Speck paprika. 

^^ cup clam broth. 

Blend and freeze according to General Eule, to the con- 
sistency of a soft Water Ice. Serve in small punch-glasses 
or champagne glasses, with a teaspoon of unsweetened 
whipped cream on top — Delicious to serve for dinner in 
place of shellfish. 

SCALPICON OF FBUIT 

A delicious scalpicon is made by cutting all kinds of fresh 
fruits into small pieces flavoring with wine or lemon juice 
and sugar. Put into serving dish with Orange or Lemon 
Ice on top. Serve individually in champagne glasses on a 
small plate with doily, with a single rose or other flower to 
correspond with color of ice. 

OBANOE STBAW8 

Peel the orange or lemon lengthwise ; cut into long, narrow 
strips, about one-fourth of an inch wide. Put into saucepan 



316 NUTRITIOUS DESSERTS 

and cover with cold water and bring to the boiling point and 
pour ofiE the water ; repeat this process five or six times, or 
until the bitter taste of peel is extracted. Drain thoroughly 
and cover with granulated sugar. Cook until sugar is dis- 
solved and is thick and hardens in cold water. Then roll 
straws in granulated sugar and cool. Serve with Orange Ice, 
etc., or as a bon-bon. 



CHAPTER XII 
CAKE 

The two methods of making cake light are by means of 
air and of gas. Air is introduced by beating, or by the 
addition of beaten eggs, as in sponge cake. When the light- 
ness is entirely dependent upon air, the whites, and yolks of 
eggs should be beaten separately. 

Gas may be generated from within by combining an iacid 
and alkali and adding moisture; as cream of tartar and 
bicarbonate of soda; or sour milk and soda; or molasses and 
baking powder. The combination of both air and gas is 
used to raise butter cakes. 

General Directions for Cake Making. Before blending the 
cake, see that the oven is at right temperature for baking 
and the pans greased with a little beef fat and dredged with 
flour. The pan may be lined with paper to prevent cake 
burning on bottom when cake requires long baking or when 
the oven bakes too quickly on the bottom. Have all material 
at hand and measured. Use a round bottom bowl, and a 
wooden spoon for mixing; beat rather than stir the mixture 
and fold in ingredients. Put mixture in cake pans, slightly 
higher on the sides than in the center, as cake rises more 
quickly in the center. Layer cake takes a hotter oven than 
loaf cake. If cake is baked properly, it will rise, but not 
brown, during first quarter of the time required for baking; 
become slightly browned the second quarter; well browned 
during the third; and shrink from the pan during the 
fourth. 

If the oven is too hot, a crust will form over the top be- 
fore the cake has risen sufficiently and the cake will break 

317 



318 CAKE 

open on the top. If the oven is too cool the cake will rise too 
much and will be of coarse texture. 

Place pans in oven in such position that they may remain 
and do not move them before the third quarter of the baking. 
If the top of the cake should brown too quickly cover with 
a piece of light weight paper, slightly buttered on the one 
side and next to the cake. 

Cake is sufficiently baked when it shrinks slightly from, 
the edge of the pan and feels firm to the touch; if when, 
tested with a fine washed and heated knitting or darning 
needle and it comes out clear. In looking at cake do not 
open the oven door too wide and only for a moment, and 
care must be taken not to jar the door in closing. 

SPONGE CAKE, 1890 CAIOBIES 

4 eggs. ll^ teaspoons Rumford's baking 

1 cup powdered sugar. powder. 

% cup bread flour. Rind and juice of ^ lemon. 

Yz teaspoon salt. 

Beat eggs separately, very light. To the yolks add the 
sugar and lemon, sift in carefully the flour blended with the 
baking powder and beat about five minutes. Then fold in 
the whites. Bake in a well-greased and floured angel cake 
tin in a moderate oven. Cake is done if when tested with a 
fine (washed) knitting needle it comes out clear, or when the 
cake shrinks from the pan. 

COLD WATER SPONGE CAKE, 1633 CALORIES 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking^ 
1 cup sugar. powder. 

6 tablespoons cold water. 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 

lys cups bread flour. 

Beat the yolks and whites separately. To the yolks 'add 
the sugar and beat well ; add lemon juice and cold water ; sift 
flour and baking powder together three times and add grad- 
ually, beating thoroughly. 

Fold in the well-beaten whites. Bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan in a moderate oven. . 



CAKE 319 

HOT WATEB SPONGE CAKE, 1480 CAL0BIE8 

2 eggs. Yg saltspoon salt, 

1 cup sugar. ^4 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 cup bread, flour. ^ cup- bailing water. 
ly^ teaspoons Rumford baking 

powder. 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar ; sift dry ingredients 
together and add gradually; add flavoring and beat well. 
Lastly add the boiling water, and bake in well-greased and 
floured gem tins, or shallow pan, in a moderate oven. 

PLAIK CAKE, 2880 CALOBIES 

2 eggs. 4 tablespoons butter. 

Yg cup milk. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking 

1 cup sugar. powder. 

lYz cups bread flour. 1 teaspoon flavoring or spices. 

Line the pan with buttered paper; separate eggs. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, add the well-beaten yolks 
and flavoring. Add alternately the milk and the flour with 
the baking powder sifted in it. Beat well and fold in the 
stiffly-beaten whites. Put at once in a well-lined and greased 
pan, and bake in a hot oven about thirty minutes, or until it 
shrinks from the pan, or until a fine (washed) knitting needle 
comes out dry. 

The cake may be varied by adding one-fourth cup currants, 
or a few raisins and a little citron, or mixed spices, or a little 
melted chocolate. Before adding fruit to cake it should be 
slightly floured. 

' OIITTEN NTTT CAKE (FOR THE DIABETIC), 1436 CALOBIES i 

1 tablespoon butter. % teaspoon Sweetina. 

Yolks 2 eggs. Salt and spices. 

Whites 2 eggs. 1 cup nut meats. 

% cup sour milk. Gum Gluten Flour. 

1 teaspoon soda. 

Cream the butter, add the well-beaten yolks and Sweetina 
syrup, then the sour milk in which the soda has been blended. 
Add Gum Gluten Flour gradually to make a stijBf batter; 

^Without gluten flour. 



320 CAKE 

season with salt and spices and add nut meats. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

BOILED FBOSTINO, 853 CAIOBIES . 

1 cup sugar. White 1 egg. 

% teaspoon cream of tartar. y^ teaspoon flavoring. 

%cup cold water. 

Boil the sugar, cream «f tartar and cold water without stir- 
ring until it threads from spoon, and ^adually pour on to 
the well-beaten white of egg. Add any flavoring to taste. 
Beat until thick and spread quickly. A little chocolate may 
be added for variety, or chopped nuts or cocoanut, etc. 

MABOTTEBITE WAFEBS 

Take "Long Branch ^^ wafer crackers and spread with 
plain-boiled frosting, or add nuts, chocolate, cocoanut, etc. 
Put in oven a moment to dry, but not brown. Dainty to 
serve with Ice Cream, Ices and Sherbet. 

OIHOEB BBEAD, 2600 CALOBIES 

1 egg. 'Y^ cup boiling water. 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon ginger. 

7 tablespoons melted butter. 1% cups bread flour or 

1 teaspoon soda. 2% cups pastry flour. 

Beat egg in mixing bowl ; add molasses, melted butter, and 
gradually one cup of flour. To the remaining flour add the 
soda and ginger, sift and add to mixture; beat well and add 
the boiling water. Bake in well-greased and floured gem tins, 
or shallow pan, in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Test 
with a fine (washed) darning needle ; when it comes out clear, 
or the cake shrinks from the pan the cake is done. 



PART III 

HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

DIET IN DISEASE 

DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



CHAPTER XIII 

HOSPITAL DIETAEIES 

OENEBAL TTFES OF DIET USED IN HOSPITALS 

LiaUID OB FLUID FOODS* 

Acid, starchy and miscellaneous drinks. Eaw eggs in the 
form of all albuminous drinks. Milk in difiEerent ways as 
given in recipes under chapter; thus milk may be flavored 
with cocoa, chocolate, coffee or meat broth ; diluted with lime 
water, Apollinaris or Vichy ; combined with starchy drinks or 
strained giuels. Broths of various kinds; beef juice; beef 
tea ; beef extract. Soups, both clear and creamy ; oysters and 
clams. 

SOFT OR SEHI-SOUD FOOD 

Milk and water gruels. Water, milk or creamy toast. 

' Starchy and meat jellies. Custards in various forms. Whips 

and souflBes. Junkets, cornstarch puddings or blanc-mange, 

gelatins. Ice cream, sherbet, ices. Plain cream, butter, olive 

oil, mayonnaise dressing, cod liver oil, plain or emulsified. 

SOLID FOODS 

Gruels and mushes. Various forms of bread, toast and 
crackers. Eggs prepared in many forms. Meats cooked in 
various ways; as beef, mutton, lamb; chicken, turkey or 
^ame; sweetbreads; fish, oysters, clams. Suitable vegetables 
and fruits. 

TYPICAL DIETS EEOM VAEIOTIS HOSPITALS 

LIGHT DIET i 
(or Convalescent Diet) 

Breakfast. — Milk, tea, coflfee or cocoa (with milk and sugar). 
Bread and butter, white bread, graham bread or toast. 
Cereals with cream. Eggs (any style except fried). Fruit: 
fresh in season or dried. 
^Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, New York. 

323 



324 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

Dinner, — Tea (milk). Soup, with stock or broths; or cream soup. 
Crackers, bread and butter. Eggs: soft boiled or poached or 
raw (if desired). Yegetables*. baked or stuffed potato or rice. 
Desserts: light puddings or ices or ice cream or jellies or 
custards or fresh or stewed fruits or baked apples. 

Supper. — Tea (milk). Fruit: (fresh in season), dried, canned or 
preserved. Bread and butter : white bread, toast, milk toast ; 
egg or fruit sandwich. Vegetables: baked or stuffed potato, 
creamed baked potato; rice, baked bananas or macaroni 
(plain). Eggs (any style except fried). Light puddings or 
custards, jellies, plain cakes. 

TYPICAL LIGHT DIET i 

Breakfast, — Oranges, coffee with milk and sugar, or tea ; milk, cream 
of wheat, eggs ( soft cooked in shell ) , toast. 

Dinner. — Tea and milk, soup, crackers, bread and butter, baked 
potato, snow pudding. 

Supper. — Tea, milk, bread and butter, steamed rice, canned peaches, 
cake, jelly. 

MILK DIET 2 

During the day give 6 to 8 ounces every two hours. 
During the night give 6 to 8 ounces every three hours. 
(When very ill give every two hours during the night.) 

FLUID DIETS 

Milk, beef tea, chicken broth, mutton broth, egg albumin. 

SOFT DIET 8 

Cereals, soft eggs, milk toast, custard, farinaceous puddings, tea, 
coffee, cocoa, milk. 

SOFT SOLIDS 4 

Soft toast, soft eggs, crackers in milk or broth, jellies of all kinds, 
ice cream, soft puddings without raisins, liquids of all kinds, soups 
strained, very weak tea, coffee or cocoa. 

Avoid: meat, potatoes, vegetables. 

LiaxriD OB FABIHACEOirS 4 

Cereals, bread, jellies, liquids, ice cream, custard, blanc-mange, 
puddings (without raisins), chicken. 

^ Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Oloversville, New York. 

2 Diet used at Bellevue Hospital, New York. 

* Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

^Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Boston. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 325 

PABINACEOTTS DIET i 

Breakfast, — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 
white bread or graham bread or rolls or muffins or toast. 
Cereals. 

Dinner, — Soup: vegetable or macaroni or barley broth. Bread or 
crackers. Vegetables: baked potatoes or tomatoes or French 
beans or rice or macaroni or samp. Puddings: rice or bread 
or cracker or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Supper, — Tea (milk and sugar). Bread and milk or milk toast or 
hominy or boiled rice or puffed rice with custards or milk or 
farina or banana or potatoes baked. Fruit: apples (stewed 
or baked) or prunes or pears or peaches or apricots (other 
fruits). 

NITBOQENOTTS DIET 2 

Meat, fishy eggs (not fried), oysters, junket, custard, ice cream, 
string beans, soup and oatmeal ; with crackers, fruit, butter and let- 
tuce. 

Breakfast, — Milk or tea or coffee (with milk). Bread and butter: 
graham bread. Meats: eggs or fresh fish or stew without 
vegetables or meat or hash without potatoes. 

Dinner, — Soup: stock or chowder, graham bread. Meats: beef 
(roast or boiled) or fresh fish or Irish stew. Vegetables: 
spinach, lettuce, celery or string beans. Desserts: custards. 

Supper. — Tea (milk), graham bread and butter or bread and milk, 
eggs or cold meat. 

NTTTBIENT DIET 3 

Two eggs strained through muslin into a tablespoon of cold 
water until dissolved. Add this to four to six ounces of cold 
milk, add one-half drachm salt, dissolved in water. If pa- 
tient is very low add tincture opii (deodorized). At times 
beef juice, one-half drachm is added, but is not necessary. 

OZALXmiA DIET 2 

Oxaluria, as the name signifies, is an excess of oxalate of 
lime in the form of crystals in the urine, usually affecting the 
nervous, irritable dyspeptic. It is considered that possibly the 

1 Diet used at Nathan Littauer Hospital, Oloversville, New York. 

2 Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 

3 Elbridge J. Cutler, M.D. : Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hos- 
pital, Boston, Mass. 



326 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

frequency of the disease among the poorer classes is due to 
an excessive vegetable diet, sugar and starch foods, com- 
bined with irritating activities. The diet should be carefully 
regulated, though liberal. All vegetables and jirugs contain- 
ing oxalates must be avoided; all lime or hard water should 
be forbidden and replaced by boiled or distilled water. Sugar 
should be prohibited, coffee and tea replaced by milk. 

Avoid asparagus, celery, cauliflower, green beans, tomatoes, 
spinach, rhubarb, potatoes, sorrel, carrots, parsnips, berries, 
apples, pears, plums, grapes, chocolate and cocoa. Cut carbo- 
hydrates low. Give this: (1) eggs, toast, milk; (2) meat or 
fish, green vegetables, except those forbidden; peas, onions, 
custard, fruit, ice cream; (3) cereals, cold meat, cooked fruit, 
except forbidden forms. 

STRICT STTGAB-PBEE DIET 
Massachusetts General Hospital i 

See " Diabetic Diet.'' Page 357. 

SPECIAL FAT-PBEE DIET i 

Breakfast, — Lean meat^ 100 gms.; toasted breads 60 gms.; coflfee with 
a little milk and saccharine (no butter, no cream, no sugar). 
11 A. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 

'Noon. — Clear soup, fat-free; bread, 50 gms.; lean meat, 100 gms. 
4 P. M., albumin water of 2 eggs. 

Supper, — Lean meat, 100 gms. ; bread, 50 gms. ; rice, 50 gms. 

SALT-PBEE DIET i 

See Xephritis Diet. Page 393. 

TEST DIETS 1 

Much stress is laid upon test-diets in order to determine the 
ability of the patient to properly assimilate fats, proteins or 
carbohydrates. These test-diets are known as " fat-free days/' 
" sugar-free days/' " vegetable days/' " oatmeal days/' and a 
diet giving the proper amount of bulk, containing little pro- 
teids and carbohydrates, with the caloric value of the fat sq 
low that it is styled " starvation days." 

^Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 327 

The main test-diet is the Schmidt diet as modified by Dr. 
Hewes.^ It runs three days, beginning with breakfast, and 
is as follows : 

Schmidt Diet 

Morning, — Fifty grammes zwieback; ^ litre oatmeal gruel, mad« 
of 40 gms. rolled oats, 200 c.c. milk, 300 c.c. water, 1 eggy 10 
gms. butter. 11a. m., Yg litre milk. 

Noon. — 125 gms. chopped beef broiled and made palatable with 20 
gms. butter; 250 gms. potato mashed with 10 gms. butter; 50 
gms. toast. 4 P. M., one-half litre milk. 

"Night, — Same as morning. (Stools third and fourth days.) It is 
carefully weighed, measured, and prepared, and one-fifth ad- 
ditional of the amount served is sent to the laboratory for 
analysis. AH the patient does not consume is weighed and 
deducted; all urine and feces are calculated. 

HOSPITAL EZTKA DIET 2 

Chicken, eggs,, stale bread and toast, scraped beef, sand- 
wiches, blanc-mange, soft custard without raisins; raw oys- 
ters, milk, broths, gruels, soups, milk whey, oranges, lemonade, 
crackers, jelly, ice cream, weak tea, coffee or cocoa. 

PISH DIET 

Consists of a ration of bread, ten ounces, and fish, eight 
ounces (the uncooked measure), such as haddock, cod or sole, 
or similar fish, potatoes, eight ounces, cocoa, one ounce, with 
half an ounce of sugar and a sixth of a pint of milk. 

This is a serviceable form of diet for those for whom large 
quantities of meat are not only unnecessary but injurious. 

BBOTH DIET 

In children's hospitals a diet is sometimes classified as the 
^^ broth diet,'* consisting of mutton broth flavored with veg- 
etables, and bread and butter, with milk ; or a " beef tea diet,'' 
in which beef tea replaces the broth. In the lighter diet of 
children, gruels, bread and molasses, and simple farinaceous 

1 Dr. Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. 
'Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 



328 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

foods such as farina, cornstarch, rice, etc., should play an 
important r81e. Sometimes such a diet goes under the name 
of '' soft food/' 

KESTBICTED DIET 

Breakfast, — Tea or coffee (with milk and sugar). Farinaceous food 
(with milk). Eggs. 

Dinner, — Soup; raw oysters, roast beef, steak or chicken and veg- 
etables. Pudding (bread, rice, tapioca or cornstarch). 

Supper, — Tea (with milk and sugar). Bread (with butter). Fruit 
(fresh or dried). 

BELLEVXTE HOSPITAL IN THE CITY OF NEW YOKX, 1910 

Dietary Table for Patients 

MONDAY 

Breakfast, — Coffee, with milk and sugar, bread and butter, oatmeal, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner, — Hoast beef, rice, soup, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

apples. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast, — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, hominy, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinners — Mutton stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread, bread pudding. 
Supper, — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffiee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, rice, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner. — Roast beef, barley soup, potatoes, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

prunes. 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, oatmeal 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner, — Beef stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

apricots. 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast, — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, two 

eggs, crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner. — Baked fish, potatoes, vegetables, bread, rice pudding. 
Supper, — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 



TYPICAL HOSPITAL DIETS 329 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast, — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, hominj, 

crackers, milk (1 qt.). 
Dinner. — Mutton stew, potatoes, vegetables, bread. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, stewed 

prunes, apples. 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast. — Coffee (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, crack- 
ers, milk (1 qt.), two eggs. 
Dinner. — Corn beef, bean soup,' potatoes, bread, cornstarch pudding. 
Supper. — Tea (with milk and sugar), bread and butter, prunes. 

MILK DIET 
To be prescribed by the attending physieian or surgeons. 

ARTICLES OF SPECIAL DIET 

Beefsteak, beef tea, chicken, chicken soup, rice and milk, eggs, 
milk. 

DIETABY OF THE PKESBYTEKIAN HOSPITAL IN THE CITY OF 

ITEW YOBX, 1910 

HOUSE DIET 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 
White bread or Graham bread or com bread or rolls or toast. 
Porridge: Oatmeal or wheaten-grits or Indian meal or hom- 
iny or farina- or samp. Meats: Hash or eggs or salt fish 
or fresh fish or stew. 

Dinner. — Soup: Stock or mutton broth with barley or vegetable or 
chowder; dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or mut- 
ton (roast or boiled) or corned beef or fresh fish or Irish 
stew. Vegetables: Potatoes, baked, boiled or mashed and 
tomatoes or baked beans or French beans or turnips or 
beets or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread 
or tapioca or farina or cornstarch or custard. 

Supper. — Tea (sugar and milk), bread and butter or toast and 
butter. Fruit: Apples stewed or baked or primes or pears. 

CONVALESCENT DIET 

Breakfast. — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter. 

White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 

Porridge: Hominy or farina. Meats: Eggs or fresh fish or 

stew (plain). 
Dinner. — Soup: Stock or chicken or mutton broth with barley or 

vegetable. Dry bread. Meats: Beef (roast or boiled) or 



330 HOSPITAL DIETARIES 

chicken or fish (fresh). Vegetables: potatoes (baked) or rice 
or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or tapioca or 
farina or cornstarch or custard. 
Bupper, — Tea (milk and sugar). Bread and milk or milk toast or 
bread and butter or toast and butter. Fruit: Apples stewed 
or baked or prunes or pears. 

NITROGENOUS DIET 

Breakfast — Tea or coffee (milk), bread and butter, Graham bread. 

Meats: Eggs or fresh fish or stew without vegetables or rneat^ 

hash without potatoes. 
Dinner.-^ Soup: Stock or chowder, Graham bread. Meats: Beef 

(roast or boiled) or mutton (roast or boiled) or fresh fish or 

Irish stew. Vegetables: Spinach or lettuce or celery or 

string beans. Pudding: Custard. 
Supper, — Tea (milk), Graham bread and butter or bread and milk, 

eggs or cold meat. 

FARINACEOUS DIET 

Breakfast, — Tea or coffee (milk and sugar). Bread and butter: 

White bread or Graham bread or corn bread or rolls or toast. 

Porridge: Hominy or farina or Indian meal. 
Dinner, — Soup : Vegetable or macaroni or barley broth ; dry bread. 

Vegetables: Baked potatoes and tomatoes or French beans 

or rice or macaroni or samp. Pudding: Rice or bread or 

tapioca or farina or cornstarch. 
Supper. — Tea (milk and sugar) bread and milk or milk toast or 

hominy or boiled rice or farina. Fruit: Apples stewed or 

baked or prunes or pears. 

MILK DIET 

Breakfast, — One quart of milk. 
Dinner. — One quart of milk. 
Bupper. — One quart of milk. 

EXTRAS 

OBDEBED ONLY BY THE ATTENDING PHYSICIAN OR SUBGEON 

Mutton chops, beef steak, scraped beef, beef tea (made with hydro- 
chloric acid), chicken (broiled, fricasseed or roast), chicken 
broth, eggs, milk, oysters, clam broth, gruels, crackers, ginger 
bread, custard, milk toast. 



CHAPTER XIV 
DEBT IN DISEASE 

One of the most striking differences between the older and 
more recent methods of treatment of disease is the careful 
attention bestowed upon the diet at the present day. For it is 
now recognized that the proper selection of food, both solid 
and fluid, is of as much importance as the use of medicaments. 
In the management of diseases affecting the digestive organs 
proper, and in all affections of metabolism (gout, obesity and 
diabetes, for example) the diet may be said to represent the 
treatment, and there is hardly any disease which may not be 
benefited by intelligent feeding. 

These matters, however, are left entirely to the medical prac- 
titioner, and it is only exceptionally that the nurse is required 
to assume any responsibility. She should know in a general 
way, however, the types of food suitable in different diseased 
conditions, so that she may avoid harmful foods when not 
given specific instructions, and so that she may adapt the 
prescribed diet to the tastes of the individual. For this pur- 
pose, an outline of the diets in use in common diseases is 
included in this volume. 

DIET IN FEVERS AND INFECTIOTTS DISEASES 

DIET IN FEVEK IN GENERAL 

In fevers due to poisons circulating in the blood, there is 
an interference with heat regulation, so that the heat gen- 
erated in the body cannot be gotten rid of in the normal 
way; an increased metabolism; and a disturbance of the di- 
gestive and absorptive functions. It is, therefore, desirable to 
give easily digested food, in small quantities at frequent in- 

331 



332 DIET IN DISEASE 

tervals, preferably in liquid form, as substances dissolved in 
water are more readily absorbed, and water tends to aid in 
cooling the body to normal temperature. 

For the first three or four days, patients previously strong, 
should be given only fluid foods. But since a normal man, 
lying quietly in bed, requires about 2000 calories to com- 
pensate for daily loss of energy, and in the increased metab- 
olism of fever, this requirement is increased, it is necessary 
that more substantial food be incorporated into the diet as far 
as is possible without disturbing digestion. 

DIET. — Milk is the staple food, but must be given with care, 
swallowed very slowly and diluted with limewater, soda, seltzer or 
other effervescent water — one part to two parts milk. 

If milk can be taken, two or three pints should be given — four 
ounces every two hours, or six ounces every three hours. In case 
milk does not agree, whey may be given as a substitute for milk in 
part or in whole. Modified milk or peptonized milk may be given. 
Sometimes the milk may be flavored with tea, coffee, cocoa or 
malted milk and junket used. 

Next to milk the most important article of diet is beef juice and 
broths. Next come well cooked gruels. Later well prepared cereals 
and malt extract are valuable, and plain or cocoa junkets. Usually 
there is thirst, and all acid drinks, such as grape juice, may be taken. 

Panopepton with crushed ice, peptonised milk, clam, mutton and 
chicken broth, beef tea, clear soups, thickened with some farinaceous 
substance, gelatin jellies, are all of value. 

Liquids. — Pure cold water, toast water, any of the acid drinks, 
all sipped slowly, are recommended both to relieve thirst and on 
account of facilitating the speed with which the waste matter re- 
sulting from increased metabolism of the fever is eliminated through 
the kidneys. 

AVOID. — Any solid or vegetable food or fruits, until permitted 
by the physician in charge. 

DIET IN CONYALESCENCE FROM FEVEK 

Thompson i 

Convalescents who have long subsisted solely upon fluids 
must be careful in resuming solid diet, for the rapidity of 
recuperation of the digestive organs varies in different per- 

»W. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 333 

sons, and taking meats or other solid foods too soon may cause 
rise in temperature, rapid heart action, and possibly visceral 
congestion. The first meat given, therefore, should be in a 
finely subdivided state, such as scraped beef or minced chicken. 

During convalescence from protracted fevers the more 
easily digested forms of starchy foods are found to be very 
useful, especially if there has been much loss of weight. Sago 
and tapioca, and dried bread crumbs rolled through a fine 
sieve may be added to thicken clear meat broths. Crackers 
and zwieback are useful. 

Other ingredients which may be added to thicken soups 
during convalescence are panada, semolina, tapioca, and maca- 
roni. Custard puddings, cooked fruit, wine and beef jellies, 
blanc-mange, or baked custard, may be allowed. "Mush," 
fine hominy, cornstarch, farina, and boiled rice, with beef 
juice, can be ordered. 

The following dietary will serve as a general guide for 
feeding convalescents from fevers of ordinary severity in 
which special lesions of the alimentary canal are not present. 

FIRST DAY 

Breakfast, — Poached egg on toast. Cocoa. 

Lunch. — Milk punch. 

Dinner, — Raw oysters. Cream crackers. Light wine if desired. 

Jjunch. — One cup of hot meat broth. 

Supper. — Milk toast. Wine jelly. Tea. 

SECOND DAY 

Breakfast, — Soft cooked egg. Milk punch. Coffee with sugar and 

cream. 
Lunch. — One cup of soft custard. 
Dinner, — Cream of celery soup. Sippets of toast. A little barley 

pudding, with cream. Sherry wine if desired. 
Luncfl, — Milk punch. 
Supper. — Water toast, buttered. Wine jelly. Tea. 

THIRD DAY 

Breakfast, — Coddled eggs. Cream toast. Cocoa. 
Lunch. — One cup of hot chicken broth. 

Dinner. — Chicken panada. Bread. Light wine if desired. A little 
tapioca cream. 



334 DIET IN DISEASE 

Lunch. — An eggnog. 

Supper, — Buttered dry toast. Baked sweet apples and cream. Tea. 

FOURTH DAY 

Breakfast, — An orange. Oatmeal (H. O.), with cream and sugar. 

Poached e^g on toast. Baked potato. Cocoa. 
Lunch, — One cup of hot, soft custard. 
Dinner. — ^Potato soup. Crodtons. A small piece of beefsteak. 

Creamed potatoes. Baked custard. Coffee. 
Lunch. — One cup of 'chicken broth, with rice. 
Supper. — Raw oysters. Banquet crackers. Graham bread, toasted 

Wine jelly. Tea. 

FIFTH DAY 

Breakfast, — An orange. Coffee. Oatmeal, with cream and sugar. 
Broiled mutton chop. Toast. 

Lunch. — One cup of mulled wine. 

Dinner. — Chicken soup. Bread. Creamed sweetbreads. Duchess po- 
tatoes. Snow pudding. Cocoa. 

Lunch. — Siphon soda, with coffee syrup and cream. 

Supper. — Buttered dry toast. Orange jelly. Sponge cake and 
cream. Tea. 

A further discussion of this topic will be found in the sec- 
tion upon Convalescence in Typhoid Fever. 

AVhile brandy and whiskey constitute the best form in 
which to give alcohol in the acute stage of fever, in con- 
valescence it is often advisable to use some other alcoholic 
drink, and an occasional change from one variety to another 
renders the patient somewhat less liable to the danger of 
acquiring a permanent alcoholic habit. For convalescence, 
if the patient's purse can afford it, champagne, port wine, 
sherry, Madeira, or a good claret or Burgundy, may be taken 
with advantage, in the class of cases above mentioned. 

TYPHOID FEVER 

The modern dietetics of typhoid may be conveniently con- 
sidered under three plans of feeding as follows : 

1. Starvation Treatment of Typhoid, This ancient method 
of feeding or omitting to feed typhoid patients has recently- 
been revived with alleged good results, but those who have 
tested the method are thus far few in number and it is very 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 335 

unlikely that the profession as a whole will ever adopt it, 
especially since we know what may be done with liberal feed- 
ing. Typhoid subjects are commonly young, vigorous and 
well nourished and can naturally subsist for a long time on 
their own stored-up nutriment; while by "starvations^ they 
are protected from intestinal fermentation of undigested food. 
Hence such patients may seem to do well for a number of 
days on water alone given in unlimited quantities. But this 
represents but one aspect, and that a narrow one, in the prob- 
lem of feeding typhoid patients, and is applicable only to 
particular cases and particular stages of such cases. Much 
would also depend, perhaps, on other methods of treatment 
in use. Thus if the fever were kept down by cold baths, 
the demand for nutriment would doubtless be less than were 
the fever allowed to pursue its course. 

With advancing age the mortality rate increases greatly, and 
patients above thirty-five or forty doubtless require nutri- 
ment to a greater extent than the youthful. 

2. Liquid Diet in Typhoid. This consists chiefly of milk, 
varied with broths and cereal decoctions. The milk which is 
the mainstay, is given in amounts up to two quarts in twenty- 
four hours, other articles being given only now and .then to 
vary the monotony. Milk may itself be administered in 
various forms — peptonised milk, whey, malted milk and 
junket, kumyss and artificially-soured milk. Water is also 
given freely. This mode of dieting has been for many years 
the prevailing one for the acutely dangerous period of the 
disease, having succeeded the earlier beef tea diet. Under 
liquid diet may also be mentioned the various predigested 
foods, which, by reason of their concentrated state, are of 
value when there is difficulty in ingesting enough milk to 
make up the proper fuel value for the day. 

Of late years, it has been claimed that milk is unsuited 
for diet in typhoid because it forms an ideal culture medium 
for bacteria. A much older objection is the necessary forma- 
tion of irritating curds from the cows' milk usually given. 
This last objection has been met to some extent by peptonisa- 



336 DIET IN DISEASE 

tion of the milk, and by ingesting it very slowly, so that no 
large clot can quickly form. Milk already curdled and emul- 
sified, as in the form of kumyss and other fermented products 
escapes this objection, and is less favorable to putrefaction. 
But the most weighty objection to a fluid diet is probably 
found in the belief that it gives too few calories in propor- 
tion to the volume of food injected, and hence like the 
starvation treatment is not adapted for routine use but only 
for special cases and special periods. 

3. Liberal or Generous Diet. This in its widest sense is 
doubtless the only sound routine plan, for it permits the use 
of semi-solid food if the patient can take it and digest it. 
It allows considerable variety, for such dishes as custard, ice 
cream, arrowroot, calfs foot jelly and the like, usually re- 
served for convalescence, may often be taken safely at an 
early period in the disease. There is, in fact, hardly any 
line drawn as to how far a person may go, provided he does 
not go beyond the dietary proper for delicate stomachs. 
Baked potato, baked apple, rice pudding, water toast and 
similar articles are gradually added to the diet and even lamb 
chop and soft-boiled eggs are given while the temperature is 
still elevated. This, of course, is in direct violation of the 
older rule of giving liquid food until fever has completely 
subsided. The justification appears to lie in the fact that 
liberal diet often saves life, and in cases where the chances 
seem against recovery it is one of the reserve cards to play. 
Because if the patient is likely to die in any case, the solid 
diet, if it can be tolerated, cannot add to the risk and may 
be of incalculable value. This observation was made long 
ago in connection with such diseases as childbed fever, blood 
poisoning, erysipelas, meningitis, gangrene and similar mala- 
dies with a natural tendency to go from bad to worse; and 
the severest types of typhoid belong in the same category of 
diseases. 

Note. — " High Caloric Feeding ^^ in typhoid which lias been 
tested in recent years is known as the high caloric, in which 
it is aimed to give the patient far more calories than he 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 337 

should utilize in health, even at the hardest labor and on the 
most liberal diet. This is the exact antithesis of the water 
or starvation diet, in which the patient subsists on his own. 
tissues. In the high caloric plan the theory is to supply 
such an excess of nutriment that the least possible loss of tis- 
sue occurs ; so that the period of convalescence and recupera- 
tion should be greatly shortened. Certain physicians have 
actually claimed a gain in weight during the fever under 
plans of this character. It is obviously very difficult to feed 
typhoid patients with food having the highest calorific value. 
Even the blandest fats are badly tolerated, as is also cane 
sugar. It is possible, however, to use glucose, dextrin, and 
especially lactose, along with brandy, more or less in connec- 
tion with ordinary feeding, to such a degree that in in- 
dividual cases the number of calories in the ordinary liberal 
diet may be practically doubled. 

AVhatever shortcomings exist in connection with caloric 
feeding are naturally increased with the amount of food. 
There is practically no limit to what can be ingested in 
twenty-four hours, but there may be a limit to utilization. 
The amount of calories actually used can only be determined 
by painstaking investigation of the excreta. There is also 
great individual variation in the oxidation of special food- 
stuffs, as is seen notably in alcohol. The greater the daily 
intake, the greater the difficulty in establishing common 
standards. For this and other reasons it is best to regard 
caloric feeding as merely a check on the older methods and 
on common experience. It is hardly likely, therefore, that 
high caloric feeding will ever come into vogue, although it 
may have a field in the individual case or at some special 
period in a case. 

UQTHD DIET IN TYPHOID FEVEK 

In the ordinary case, two and a half pints of milk and a 
pint and a half of beef, mutton or chicken broth will be a fair 
average supply, given in divided quantities, alternately. 
Give ten ounces at a time, every three hours; the broths will 



338 VIET IN DISEASE 

come in after every second supply of milk. The amount of 
meat broths must be governed by the state of the bowjsls. If 
diarrhoea, then broths must not be given, or should be 
given in very small quantities. 

Broths tend to increase diarrhoea. In some cases meat jelly 
iced or extract of meat may be taken in place of broths, a 
teaspoon being given at a time. 

The chief guide in the matter of food in typhoid must be 
found in the condition of the stools. The physician in charge 
of the case should himself see the feces daily. If any signs 
of undigested food appear, there is something regarding the 
dietary that is wrong. If masses of hard curd appear in the 
motion, there is probably too much milk given in the twenty- 
four hours, or it is being given in too large quantities at a 
time. 

It may be that the quantities are not wrong, and that dilu- 
tion of the milk, or the addition of an alkali, or of some 
farinaceous material in powder well cooked in milk will an- 
swer the purpose by preventing the formation of the firm 
curd. 

Milk, if not retained or digested, should be peptonised. 

The chill may be taken from milk by adding a little hot 
water, and twenty drops of the saccharated solution of lime 
in each supply will secure alkalinity. Farinaceous substances 
to use in milk are arrowroot and baked flour, to aid in subdi- 
vision of the curd. Food should not be given as the nurse 
sees fit, but definite directions should be laid down as to the 
quantity to be given at a time and the mode of its administra- 
tion. 

Indication for the use of alcohol lies in the condition of 
the heart. A small, frequent, easily compressed pulse, espe- 
cially if associated with feebleness of the first sound of the 
heart, is a clear indication that alcohol is required. The 
amount given should be small — from a teaspoon to a table- 
spoon, or one ounce of wine. 

Alcohol, on account of effect only lasting for a short time, 
should be given every two hours, so that stimulation is kept 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 339 

up. In giving alcohol, you get an effect first of stimulation, 
then depression. 

The use of alcohol is not advocated by some physicians. 

TYPHOID FLXriD DIET OF PKESBYTEBIAN HOSPITAL i 

Milk, broth, egg albumin. 

TYPHOID ELXJID DIET OF GLOVEKSVILLE HOSPITAL 2 

Milk, strained broths of chicken, mutton, beef, clam broth, 
barley water, farina, arrowroot and other gruels, custards, egg- 
nog, weak tea, bouillon, junket, cream, egg albumin, gelatin. 

DIET IN CONVALESCENCE FBOH TYPHOID 

Thompson 3 

As the fever subsides, it becomes an important question 
how soon to allow a return to solid food. Relapses are very 
easily induced by indiscretion in this regard. 

The patient's appetite is always a dangerous guide to fol- 
low in this disease. After four or five weeks of an exclusive 
milk or milk and broth diet, when the temperature subsides, 
and often before it has become normal, he becomes ravenous. 
Like a long-starved man, he thinks of nothing but food, and 
demands something new to eat every day. A hospital ward 
containing a dozen convalescing typhoid fever patients, is 
difficult to manage, as a bread riot is constantly menaced. Ill- 
advised but S3mipathetic friends attempt to smuggle in all 
manner of forbidden fruits, and the patient just arrived at 
the hungry state is tempted to steal solid food from his more 
advanced neighbors. 

In the milder cases it is undoubtedly both safe and wise 
to allow a strengthening diet at an early date, and it will 
greatly prolong convalescence to forbid it. Light farinaceous 
diet — tapioca, rice, vermicelli, cream-toast, a cracker soaked 
in cream, etc. — may be given with impunity in cases which 
have run a mild course, as soon as the temperature remains 

^ Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 
* Diet used at the Nathan Littauer Hospital, Gloversville, N. Y. 
«W, Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



340 DIET IN DISEASE 

normal. Meat broth may be thickened with rice, sago, or 
vermicelli. In a day or two more, the soft part of oysters 
or a chop are permissible in cases which have presented no 
need of prolonging a fluid diet for fear of intestinal injury. 
The following is a list of fluids suitable for the different 
days of convalescence, commencing a day or two after disap- 
pearance of all fever. Milk should still be given, until grad- 
ually wholly replaced by solid food : 

DIET IN TYPHOID AFTER TWO DAYS OF NOBXAL TEHPEEA- 

TUBEi 

First Day. — Chicken broth thickened with thoroughly boiled rice. 

Milk toast or cream toast once only during the day. Beef 

juice. 
Second Day, — Junket, mutton broth, and bread crumbs. Cocoa. 

Milk toast. A piece of tender steak may be chewed but not 

swallowed. One of the prepared farinaceous foods, such as 

Horlick's, may be given with a cup of hot milk. 
Third Day, — A smaU scraped beef sandwich at noon. A soft cooked 

egg or baked custard for supper. Boiled rice or potato pur6e 

strained. Arrojjrroot gruel. 
Fourth Day, — The soft part of three or four oysters. Meat broth 

thickened with a beaten egg. Cream toast. Rice pudding or 

blanc-mange and whipped cream, or Bavarian cream. 
Fifth Day, — Scraped beef sandwich. A tender sweetbread. Bread 

and milk. A poached egg. Wine jelly or calf's foot jelly. 

Macaroni. 
Sixth Day. — Mush or crackers and milk, scrambled eggs, chicken 

jelly. Bread and butter. The soft parts of raw oysters. 
Seventh Day. — A small piece of tenderloin steak or a little breast of 

broiled chicken. Bread and butter. Boiled rice. Wine jelly. 

Sponge cake and whipped cream. 
Eighth Day. — A slice of tender rare roast beef, a thoroughly baked 

mealy potato served with butter or mashed with cream. 

Other food as before. 
'Sinth Day, — A little broiled fresh fish for breakfast. Beef steak at 

dinner. Rice, macaroni, eggs. Sago, rice, or milk pudding. 

A baked apple. 
Tenth Day, — Mush and milk. A squab or breast of partridge or 

roast chicken. Other foods as before. Ice cream. 

1 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 341 

For the next four or five days the patient may select 
articles from the menu of the previous day, so that three 
good meals a day are taken, besides three or four glasses of 
milk between meals. 

It is often desirable to give a little alcoholic stimulant, 
especially if there is much difference in the frequency of the 
pulse between lying and sitting or standing, or if the pulse 
rate is very low, say 56, as it sometimes is. A glass of sherry 
or a good, sound Burgundy, or a tumbler of ale may be 
drunk, but with meals only. 

DIET IN TYPHOID AFTEB TWO WEEKS OF NORHAI TEHPEBA- 

TURE 

Presbyterian Hospital i 

Strained vegetable soups, baked apples, baked potatoes, oat- 
meal. 

TYPHOID DELICACIES 
Presbyterian Hospital i 

Rice (well cooked), junket, custard, gruels, milk toast, 
scraped beef, eggs. 

TYPHOID EXTRA DIET 
Presbyterian Hospital i 

Broths, beef soups, oysters, white fish, beef, chops, mutton, 
steak, custard, eggs, chicken,' rice, white bread, toast, farina- 
ceous puddings. 

Avoid vegetables, fruit, pastry or hot bread. 

LIBERAL DIET IN TYPHOID FEVER 

Shattuck 2 

When typhoid fever kills it does so either by perforation 
or exhaustion, the proportion of th6 former being estimated 
at 5 to 10 per cent. The main factors in producing the ex- 
haustion which causes the death of at least nine-tenths of the 
fatal cases are toxemia, continued fever, diarrhoea and vomit- 

^ Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York. 

2 Frederick C. Shattuck, M.D. — Read by title in the Section on Practice 
of Medicine at the Forty-eighth Annual Meeting of the American Medical 
Association at Philadelphia, Pa., June 1-4, 1897. 



342 DIET IN DISEASE 

ing, and intestinal hemorrhage. The heart is ordinarily the 
best index of the presence and degree of exhaustion, and the 
most frequent serious pulmonary complication, hypostasis, in 
its various forms, degrees and consequences, is the direct out- 
growth of the cardiac weakness. Moreover, t3rphoid fever is 
not short and sharp like pneumonia, but of long course, and 
usually attended with decided, often with very great wasting 
of the muscular and fatty tissues. 

Most of us are agreed that we are not as yet acquainted 
with any therapeutic measures which will either abort or very 
materially shorten the course of the disease. We are, I think, 
unanimous in believing that husbanding the strength from 
the start through skillful nursing, the judicious use of water 
externally and internally, and the supervision of a wise at- 
tendant on the watch for and prepared to meet such indica- 
tions as may arise, materially modifies the course of the dis- 
ease and lessens its mortality. If what I have assumed to be 
facts be really facts, the question of diet must be a very 
important one in the management of typhoid fever. It is 
through the food which is assimilated, not through that which 
is merely put into the stomach, that we seek to limit the tis- 
sue waste while the process is active, and also try to land the 
patient on the low shore of convalescence with as much of his 
property as may be; for the recovery of his property is a 
necessary preliminary to the attainment of the high tableland 
of full health. 

Under the old doctrines as to inflammation, fever was an 
unfailing indication for depletion; directly by venesection, 
pukes, sweats and purges; indirectly by starvation. Indis- 
criminate direct depletion is now a thing of the past, and 
since the time of Todd the fact has gradually been more and 
more clearly recognized that the febrile state is often an 
indication for more, rather than less, nourishment, with selec- 
tion as to quality, rather than diminution as to quantity. In 
the shorter essential fevers a few days' starvation cannot do 
much harm, and may even be of great service with a certain 
class of patients. But suppurative fever for instance, whether 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 343 

of tubercular or other origin, especially if chronic, we feed 
to the largest limit; and we do this because we treat the con- 
dition and not the disease, individualizing our cases. Since 
our knowledge of gastric chemistry has been enriched by the 
adaptation of the soft catheter to another hollow viscus at the 
opposite extremity of the abdomen, a more complete explana- 
tion has been afforded for the fact which we knew by practical 
experience before, that gastric digestion is often weakened in 
the febrile state. But the same practical experience teaches 
us that it is not always so, or very materially so, and when 
theory and practice conflict, the former must prevail. Have 
we not fully escaped from the domination of the old doctrine 
as to the lowering treatment of inflammation, or are there 
valid reasons why we should be less bold in feeding our 
typhoid patients than our chronic febrile consumptives? 
Three such reasons deserve special consideration. In the first 
place, typhoid is far more frequently a self-limited disease 
than is phthisis ; but the fact of a self -limitation does not seem 
to me to warrant us in underfeeding, for the less the patient 
loses the less does he require to regain. In the second place, 
typhoid has constant intestinal lesions which may bleed or 
perforate, and which may be accompanied by a general 
catarrhal state of the intestinal tract. I may perhaps add 
nere that diarrhoea is not nearly as constant a symptom in 
typhoid fever as the books lead students to believe. In at 
least 50 per cent, of my hospital cases no diarrhoea was pres- 
ent at any time. We must therefore have reference to the 
local intestinal lesions as well as to the general state. In 
a disease of such long course it is impossible to prevent acci- 
dents by putting the bowels in splints, even if it were de- 
sirable to do so. More or less peristalsis must go on, and 
waste matter must pass over the ulcerated surfaces; and how 
deep or extensive the ulcerated surface may be in any par- 
ticular case no symptom or group of symptoms enables us to 
measure. Hence, it seems rational, quite apart from the 
fever, to withhold from the diet any articles the residue of 
which is liable to irritate either the mucous membrane in 



344 DIET IN DISEASE 

general or the ulcerated portion in particular. This would 
seem a fair explanation for the popularity of milk as a diet 
for typhoid, containing as it does a large proportion of water, 
and every principle necessary to nutrition, so combined as to 
make relatively small demands on the digestion of most per- 
sons, and leaving a residue which, though notoriously large, 
is not mechanically irritating. The objection to mill^ is that 
it is repugnant to a few persons, and becomes either repugnant 
or monotonous to a considerable number sooner or later. It 
is not necessary here to specify the many expedients which 
may and often must be resorted to to overcome this objection, 
and in some cases to render it digestible whether palatable or 
not. Milk is likely to maintain a very important, perhaps 
leading place in the diet of typhoid, as well as of other dis- 
eases and conditions. For a number of years I adhered as 
strictly as possible to an exclusively milk diet in t3rphoid 
fever until at least a week had elapsed from the date of the 
first normal evening temperature. I closed my ears to the 
clamors of adults, and my eyes and heart to the tears of 
children, as I now believe, unnecessarily. Thirdly, it was 
only comparatively recently the general opinion of the pro- 
fession that relapse is or may be due to errors in diet. I 
well remember the time when a fresh access of fever led my 
teachers and me to carefully inquire into the kindness of 
officious friends. It was often proved that forbidden fruit 
actually or metaphorically had been brought in by a visitor, 
and this was an entirely satisfactory explanation. When 
proof could not be had, the fact of relapse was strong pre- 
sumptive evidence of sin. We know better now, and while 
we recognize that errors in diet may produce fever, as may 
fatigue or excitement in convalescence from any severe dis- 
ease, we do not believe that they can start up a fresh invasion 
of bacilli from within. One of the things which set me 
thinking on this question of the diet in t3rphoid was the 
favorable course run by several acute febrile cases for whom I 
ordered a full diet because they were weak; believing at the 
time of so doing that typhoid could be excluded, but being 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 345 

forced to the conclusion later that only typhoid fever could 
explain the whole course of the disease. These patients did 
perfectly well, were happier and convalesced more rapidly 
than my recognized typhoid cases fed exclusively on milk. 
For five years now, I have been enlarging the diet of my 
t3rphoid cases, and have seen no reason to regret this course, 
but, on the contrary, found cause for satisfaction. 

During the twelve years, 1886 to 1897 (both inclusive), 
380 cases of typhoid fever have come under my personal care 
in the Massachusetts General Hospital. From 1886 to 1893, 
233 cases were treated under a milk diet, with a mortality 
of 10 per cent. From 1892 to 1897, 147 cases have been 
treated under a much more extended diet with a mortality of 
8.1 per cent. I know well the liability to reach false conclu- 
sions in reasoning from too small figures in a disease like 
typhoid fever. And it is also true that water has been used 
more eflBciently of late than in former years. But I can 
see nothing in my figures to contravene my observation that 
an enlarged diet has not been injurious. I would not be 
understood as advocating an indiscriminate diet. My plea 
is simply for treating the patient rather than the disease; 
for feeding him with reference to his digestive power rather 
than solely or mainly with reference to his fever; for the 
view that the danger of accidents from the local intestinal 
ulceration is not increased by allowing him to partake of 
articles which leave no irritating residue, and which cautious 
trial shows are digested without disturbance or discomfort. 
At one end of the scale are the cases with such irritability 
or weakness of the stomach as to lead to the unfortunate term 
gastric fever, or those with pronounced diarrhoea and un- 
digested food in the stools; at the other end are those more 
numerous cases with clean tongue and a desire for food. 
Between the two is every gradation. The life of the former 
may depend on the skill and ingenuity of the doctor, as- 
sisted by the intelligent devotion of the nurse. The com- 
fort and the duration of disability of all others may be 
materially modified for good by careful study and wise in- 



346 DIET IN DISEASE 

dividualization of our cases. A long list of . pennissible ar- 
ticles, from which selection can be made for different cases, 
and for the same case at different times under varying cir- 
cumstances, can be given. That which I append makes no 
claim to completeness, but is meant merely to be suggestive 
and illustrative : 

1. Milk, hot or cold, with or without salt, diluted with lime water, 
soda water, ApoUinaris, Vichy; peptogenic and peptonised milk; 
cream and water (i. e., less albumin), milk with white of egg, slip 
buttermilk, kumyss, matzoon, milk whey, milk with tea, coffee, 
cocoa. 

2. Soups: beef, veal, chicken, tomato, potato, oyster, mutton, pea, 
bean, squash ; carefully strained and thickened with rice ( powdered ) , 
arrowroot, flour, milk or cream, egg, barley. 

3. Horlick's food, malted milk, carnipeptone, bovinine, somatose. 

4. Beef juice. 

5. Gruels: strained cornmeal, crackers, flour, barley-water, toast- 
water, albumin, water with lemon-juice. 

6. Ice cream. Water ice. 

7. Eggs, soft boiled or raw, egg-nog. 

8. Finely minced lean meat, scraped beef. The soft part of raw 
oysters. Soft crackers with milk or broth. Soft puddings without 
raisins. Soft toast without crust. Blanc-mange, wine jelly, apple 
sauce and macaroni. 

TONSIUTIS AND QTHNSY 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. These diseases require no special care 
in the acute stage, beyond giving food in such fluid form as 
can be most easily swallowed. The pain caused by this act 
is often so extreme that it is advisable to concentrate all food, 
to lessen the number of necessary acts of deglutition. Meat 
juice, peptonoids, beaten eggs and brandy, may be added to 
good milk. Plain vanilla ice cream may be given. Its cold- 
ness is sometimes soothing to the pharynx. 

Holding cracked ice in the mouth before swallowing will 
sometimes annul the pain momentarily, or in extreme cases 
the pharynx and tonsils may be sprayed with cocaine, and the 

iW. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 347 

period of temporary anaethesia may be utilized for swallowing 
considerable nourishment. This is rarely necessary, for un- 
less the patient is emaciated by previous serious illness, he is 
not apt to be in need of much food for a day or two. In bad 
cases of suppurative tonsilitis the strength suffers more, and 
stimulants may be given by the rectum if deglutition is im- 
possible. 

After all forms of tonsilitis there is apt to be considerable 
anaemia, and the patient for a week or two should eat 
abundantly of animal food. Egg-nog and milk punches, are 
often needed for the first few days of convalescence. 

DIFHTHEBIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. "Alimentation occupies the first 
place in the general treatment^' (Trousseau). Throughout 
the active stage of the disease, while the fever lasts, there is 
difficulty in swallowing. All food must be given in fiuid 
form, of which milk is the best, or if, as sometimes happens, 
semi-solid material is more easily swallowed, the food must 
be thickened with cream, gelatin, eggs, or farinaceous articles; 
or Dry Peptonoids Soluble, malted milk, etc., may be added 
for this purpose to other foods. The use of pineapple juice 
is recommended because it contains an enzyme which belongs 
to the proteolytic group. 

The diet should consist chiefly of nutritious beef or chicken 
broth and beef tea, egg albumin, egg-nog, milk, and milk 
punch. Plain vanilla ice cream is nutritious, and if not too 
sweet, it is well borne, and is frequently very grateful to the 
inflamed throat. Simple farinaceous foods, such as arrow- 
root, thoroughly cooked rice, soft cream toast, and gruels, 
may be taken. Continued disgust for food is a very bad 
prognostic sign, and every effort must be made to counteract 
it by offering variety. When the child is unable to swallow 
on account of pain in accumulation of membrane in the 

iW. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



348 DIET IN DISEASE 

throat, forced feeding with a nasal or stomach tube may be 
better than nutrient enemata. 

PNEUHONIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The indications for treatment are to 
give a light diet, which will not excite the cough in swallow- 
ing, or increase dyspnoea by distention of the stomach, or 
augment the enfeeblement of the heart action by overtaxing 
the digestive powers. Vomiting should be especially guarded 
against, and if nausea exists, efforts should be made at once 
to control it. It is not necessary to keep the patient upon a 
rigid milk diet, but if milk is well borne, it is advisable to 
give nothing else while the acute symptoms last; otherwise, 
whey, meat juice, broths, and egg albumin may be allowed. 
Starchy and saccharine food must be withheld. Cold drinks 
are both acceptable and beneficial to the patient, and water 
plain or aerated, such as ApoUinaris or soda water, may be 
drunk in considerable quantity. It is believed by some au- 
thorities that the activity of the kidneys may be thus pro- 
moted, and that the poison which occasions the constitutional 
symptoms of the disease may be better eliminated. There are 
cases, however, among persons with robust circulation, in 
which the onset is very sudden and violent. The pulse is 
full and bounding, and the heart is greatly overworked by 
the effort to propel a large volume of imperfectly aerated 
blood. In such instances the addition of large quantities of 
fluid to the circulation, besides what is actually required for 
nutrition, may have the effect of still further straining the 
heart. 

It is stated that carbonated waters reduce the viscidity of 
the sputum, which is often very tenacious. 

The diet should be kept fluid until defervescence has oc- 
curred, with a normal temperature and commencing disap- 
pearance of the exudation — in fact, it is well to prolong 

1 W. Gilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co, 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 349 

the fluid diet for three or four days after the temperature 
has become normal, in order to make sure that a relapse of 
the fever is not likely to follow. In those cases in which 
resolution is postponed, and the patient becomes more and 
more feeble, although the temperature may be nearly or quite 
normal, it may be desirable to give a little properly prepared 
solid food somewhat earlier, and scraped beef, with toast, or 
a soft-cooked egg may be added to the milk diet. 

During the entire period of convalescence the diet must 
be very nourishing and of easy digestion; milk may still be 
given, and after slowly returning to the regulation three meals 
a day (see Diet in Convalescence from Typhoid Fever, p. 
339, patients do well to take milk punch, or egg-nog, or a 
glass of wine and a biscuit three or four times a day in the 
intervals. 

Alcohol is exceptionally well borne, and it undoubtedly 
serves both as a food and a support to the overworked heart. 
The fact that it is thoroughly oxidized in the circulation or 
tissues is demonstrated by the large quantities which patients 
can often digest and absorb without toxic symptoms. Doses 
may be thus tolerated which in health would ordinarily pro- 
duce drunkenness. In alcoholic subjects who have been drink- 
ing up to the time of the onset of the disease, it is indispen- 
sable to continue the use of alcohol, for the sudden withdrawal 
of its stimulating effect on the organism may give rise to 
rapid collapse. In aged and constitutionally weak persons it 
is also important that its use should be begun early in con- 
siderable quantities. 

In extreme cases as much as an ounce every two hours, or 
twelve ounces in the day, may be given with benefit, but 
ordinarily from six to eight ounces will suffice. There are 
other cases found among robust subjects who do not need 
such stimulating, and possibly may not require alcohol at 
all. The custom now in vogue of prescribing other forms of 
cardiac stimulants, such as strychnine and vasodilators, like 
nitroglycerin, makes the employment of excessive doses of 
alcohol less imperative. It should always be remembered 



350 DIET IN DISEASE 

that it is undesirable to produce toxic symptoms of alcoholism 
in pneumonia, as well as in any other disease. So long as 
the pulse is slowed and its force strengthened, the use of 
alcohol may be regarded as beneficial; but if delirium is in- 
creased, and the odor of whiskey or brandy is strong in the 
breath an hour or two after it has been given, it is an indi- 
cation that the patient is receiving more than is desirable, 
and the dosage should be reduced. From its serving as a 
fuel, and thereby saving tissue waste in the muscles, the free 
use of alcohol in pneumonia undoubtedly saves many lives. 

BRONCHO-PNEUIEONIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. Broncho-pneumonia is always a very 
critical disease, and the utmost care is required in nursing 
and feeding. The diet should consist of such articles as 
meat juice, predigested milk, and egg albumin. Stimulation 
is early required, and in considerable quantity. Brandy or 
whiskey, sweetened with a little sugar, and cold water, should 
be systematically given, especially to young children, who 
are unable to make their want of drink known. Hot milk and 
A^ichy, in the proportion of one part of Vichy to two of 
milk for older children, or half-and-half for young infants, 
may have the effect of loosening the tenacious mucous and 
easing the cough. If there is any tendency to flatulency, 
aerated waters had better be avoided. When the disease oc- 
curs in children the diet should be adapted to foster the 
strength and tax the digestive organs as little as possible. 
At first food should be given every two hours, and milk is 
usually all that is required. Later it may be alternated with 
or supplemented by egg albumin, expressed meat juice, plain 
beef or mutton broths, arrowroot, or other gruels. 

HUHFS 
Thompson i 

For mumps no special diet is required, beyond the neces- 
sity of giving fluids or soft food while the swelling of the 

iW. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D, 
Appleton & Go. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 351 

parotid glands and fever last. The suggestions for the die- 
tetic treatment of tonsilitis apply to this disease. Anasmia 
is apt to be extreme during convalescence, and meat should 
therefore be plentifully supplied. Cod-liver oil is very ap- 
propriate in protracted convalescence. 

WHOOPING COUGH 

Thompson i 

In whooping cough the paroxysms of coughing are so 
severe* as to give rise to vomiting, and in bad cases they are 
excited by taking food which does not have an opportunity 
to become assimilated, and nutrition may suffer very seriously 
in consequence, adding to the general exhaustion which 
accompanies the disease. All food must be made easily as- 
similable. It is best to give food regularly in moderate quan- 
tity at each time, and it should be predigested if neces- 
sary. Pancreatinised milk, kumyss, the prepared amylaceous 
foods, cream toast, eggs, junket, chicken broth, malted farina- 
ceous foods, custard, milk puddings, gruels thickened with 
meat extracts, and stimulants in the form of egg albumin in 
sherry, egg-nog or milk punch, are recommended for patients 
who vomit solid food. The worst cases require nutrient 
enemata, as exhaustion becomes critical. 

DIET IS TUBERCULOSIS, ESPECIALLY PULKONARY CONSUMP- 
TION 

Before we learned of the contagious character of this affec- 
tion, and its dependence on the tubercle bacillus, it was the 
custom to regard tuberculosis as a disease of nutrition, curable 
only by abundant feeding — all that a patient could tolerate 
— and especially feeding with fats and mineral matter. Even 
in modern times the custom of overfeeding is largely re- 
sorted to, and when the patient has but little appetite, the 
stomach sound is often used to give large quantities of con- 
centrated liquid food, perhaps predigested. Many physicians 
strongly disapprove of this practice, claiming that it is utterly 

^W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: *• Practical Dietetice." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



352 DIET IN DISEASE 

irrational and throws an enormous amount of extra work on 
the organs of digestion, assimilation and elimination. 

It is as true, as ever, that a full diet antagonizes the dis- 
ease. A tuberculous subject or one likely to become so, is not 
capable of much physical exertion, and save in the hectic 
fever stage, has not much temperature. The poison of the 
disease deprives him of a natural appetite, and unless he i& 
able to assimilate a normal amount of food, he loses flesh 
progressively, as in any other affection with loss of appetite 
or indigestion. Hence his diet does not differ much from 
that of the convalescent in the composition of food ; but 
on account of the enfeebled appetite and digestion the in- 
dividual articles best borne are those used in severe indiges- 
tion from any cause. That is, they are to be concentrated, 
bland, and as varied as possible. As in dyspepsia, the pa- 
tient does best on small and frequent meals. 

Considerable use can be made of milk, cream, buttermilk^ 
kumyss, etc. The remarkable and inexplicable curative effects 
of a certain amount of fat in the diet should never be for- 
gotten. The frequent repugnance to fat has in fact beea 
connected with the development of disease. This distaste 
does not usually extend to cream, butter and salad oil, and 
many forms of emulsions of fat with or without hypophos- 
phites have a deserved reputation. So important is a cer- 
tain amount of fat that many physicians have it rubbed into 
the skin and even injected subcutaneously. The patient is- 
not limited to a fixed daily quantity, but is given as much as 
he can tolerate. A certain amount of alcohol in some form 
is so well borne in tuberculosis as to make it a dietetic article 
of value. It is probable that both fat and alcohol act by 
protecting the protein. Both have a high caloric value, so 
that the amount of other nutriment can be restricted, and 
should consist largely of eggs, milk and an occasional piece 
of tender meat. 

For an average consumptive, without fever, but with no 
desire for food, six small meals may be given daily. 



FEVERS AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES 363 

1. 8 A. M. Milk, taken slowly, two glasses, with a roll or 
toast and butter and a little marmalade. 

2. 10 A. M. Milk punch, taken slowly. 

3. 1 p. M. A course dinner may be given for the sake of 
variety: cup of broth, a few bites each of fish, beef, potato 
and anything else craved as an entree (as a bit of smoked 
tongue). Also a mouthful or two of some kind of dessert. 
The patient may aid the appetite by taking wine, or some 
form of malt liquor. 

4. 4 P. M. Two glasses milk slowly sipped. 

5. 7 p. M. Like dinner, but much smaller. A plate of 
soup, a chop and a little preserve with a glass of wine. 

6. Bed time. Two glasses of milk slowly sipped. 

In this way up to 2500 calories may be taken without over- 
feeding. If a patient technically tuberculous, but with good 
appetite and digestion can take 3000 to 3500 calories daily 
without discomfort, he may do so, even though his quiet life 
would not otherwise make such a quantity desirable. The 
fat and alcohol which help so materially to swell the number 
of calories tend to fortify the body against the progress of 
the disease. 

On the other hand, patients in advanced or confirmed 
phthisis can hardly be saved by any plan of feeding. They 
often suffer from severe complications like incessant diarrhoea 
or laryngeal phthisis which make any plan of feeding difficult. 
Each case, therefore, must be a law to itself. The modern 
custom is to feed them all they can tolerate, especially of 
solid food, to supply energy, for the paroxysms of coughing 
and the exertion necessary to dress and get about in the out-^ 
door air. 

DIET: Soups. — Turtle or oyster soup, mutton, clam or chicken* 
broth, pur^ of barley, rice, peas, beans, cream of celery or tomatoes, 
whole beef tea, peptonised milk gruel. 

Fish, — All kinds of fresh fish, boiled or broiled, oysters or clams,, 
raw, roasted or broiled. 

Meats. — Rare roast beef or mutton, lamb chops, ham, fat bacon^ 
sweetbreads, poultry, game, tender steaks, hamburger steak rare. 



354 DIET IN DISEASE 

EggSi — Every way except fried. 

Farinaceous, — Oatmeal, wheaten grits, mush, hominy, rice, whole 
wheat bread, com bread, milk toast, biscuits, muffins, gems. 

Fats, — Cream, butter, olive oil, Scott's Emulsion. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes, baked, boiled or creamed, string beans, 
spinach, onions, asparagus, tomatoes, green peas, all well cooked, 
cresses, lettuce (alone or with oil dressing), celery. 

Desserts, — Farina, sago, tapioca, apple or milk pudding, floating 
island, custards, baked or stewed apples with fresh cream, cooked 
fruitSj rice with fresh cream. 

Liquids. — Fresh milk, cool, warm, or peptonised, cocoa, chocolate, 
buttermilk, pure water, tea, coffee. Liquid Peptonoids. 

AVOID. — Fried foods, salt fish, hashes, gravies, veal, pork, carrots, 
parsnips, cabbage, beets, turnips, cucumbers, macaroni, spaghetti, 
sweets, pies, pastry, sweet wines. 



CHAPTER XV 
DIET IN DISOBDEKS OF NITTBITION 

DIET IN DIABETES 

It. is commonly believed that diabetes should be managed 
dietetically by a sugar-and-starch-free regimen, carried to 
such a degree that excess of sugar no longer appears in the 
urine. As a matter of fact, such teaching may be very mis- 
leading. A diabetic, in the early stages at least, must lead 
a fairly active life, and requires the usual number of calorie* 
for such living. If sugars and starches are removed wholly 
from the diet, the requisite calories must be derived from 
protein and fat, and this may prove a strain both on the 
desire for food and its digestion and utilization. It is there- 
fore rational to allow a certain percentage of carbohydrates,, 
as they occur in such common articles of food as bread,, 
cereals, potatoes, etc., even if they favor the appearance of 
sugar in the urine. We know that in this disease, the starch 
and sugar in the diet becomes a poison if carried beyond Sr 
certain stage. The tissues then become saturated with 
saccharine products, and readily succumb to chance infec- 
tions, the microbes of which behave as they do in sweetened 
culture media. But in a vigorous subject leading an active 
life, there is always a point within which the bodily activities^ 
are sufficient to oxidize most of the carbohydrate intake ; and 
a certain amount of escape of excess products in the urine is 
then relatively insignificant. 

A characteristic diet is as follows : 

(a) First Breakfast. This should consist of lean and fat 
meat, such as occurs naturally in ham or bacon. For a bev- 
erage we may give coflEee sweetened with saccharine. If there 
is a craving for bread, starch-free gluten bread should be 
added. 

355 



356 DIET IN DISEASE 

(b) Second Breakfast. Cream, eggs, beef juice, kumyss, 
or other liquid or semi-liquid food. 

(c) Noon Meal. A course dinner, beginning with broth 
enriched with an egg, meat, or bits of green vegetable. To 
this should be added small portions of fish, roast, entree, game, 
etc. As extras, salad, cheese, etc. Wine, etc. A small 
amount of bread and butter and potatoes if craved. 

First Evening Meal. Coffee and cr^am, sweetened with 
saccharine. An egg added if craved. 

Second Evening MeaL This, usually, served at bed time, 
is meant to give the patient a chance to make up for de- 
ficiencies. He may indulge especially in sapid food, as fish, 
oysters, clams, caviare, sardines, etc., with plenty of salad 
vegetables. Bread and butter, cheese, nuts, etc., if craved 
during the meals of abstention may be given if allowed. 

The foregoing menu is intended for those stages of the 
disease in which the patient profits by some use of carbohyr 
drates. With the advance of the affection, a point is reached 
at which such foods are actually pernicious. It then becomes 
a problem to nourish these individuals with a diet practically 
free from sugars and starches. It is only necessary for the 
nurse to have at hand tables of food containing the exact 
percentage of carbohydrates ; for in this way she may protect 
the sufferer. 

A point is reached at last in which a certain excess of carbo- 
hydrates may precipitate a fatal termination. 

DIABETIC DIET OF BELLEVUE HOSPITAL i 

Meat. — Fat beef, mutton, ham and bacon. 

Fish, — Fresh fish, salted codfish, canned salmon, sardines, oysters 
and clams. 

Farinaceous. — Gluten bread and biscuits. 

Vegetables, — String beans, spinach, lettuce with olive oil and 
vinegar, cabbage, cucumbers, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, asparagus, 
celery, watercress, radishes, pickles and olives. Cream cheese. 

Dessert. — Custards, jellies and creams (without sugar), walnuts^ 
Brazil nuts and pecans. 

Drinks. — Tea or coffee without sugar, water and buttermilk. 

^ Diet used at Bellevue Hospital, N^w York. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 3li7 

DIABETIC DIET OF PEESBYTEEIAN HOSPITAI. i 

Buttermilk, kumyss, beef tea, coffee, cocoa, tea, saccharine 
in lieu of sugar, clams (thin soup), fish, poultry, beef, mutton, 
bacon, eggs, string beans, cabbage, tomatoes, lettuce, spinach 
greens, lemons, apples, oranges, strawberries. 

No milk or sugar. 

DIABETIC DIET OF THE IKASSACHTJSETTS GENEEAL HOSPITAL 2 

DIET. — Meats of all kinds (except liver), fish except lobsters or 
oysters, poultry, game, eggs, cheese, butter, lettuce, celery, cucum- 
bers, watercress, dandelions, young onions, cabbage, cauliflower, 
spinach, beet-tops, string beans, artichokes, filberts, mushrooms, 
almonds, butternuts, walnuts, cocoanut, sour oranges, grape fruits, 
currants, alkaline waters. 

AVOID. — Sugar, syrup of all kinds, potatoes, beets, peas, parsnips^ 
carrots, beans, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, oatmeal, barley, sweet fruits, 
chocolate, cider, malt liquors, champagne, sparkling or sweet wines 
and milk. 

STEICT STJGAE-FEEE DIET 2 
(Diabetic Diet) 

Diabetic Diet (Strict — Sugar-free). Contains about 20 gms. of 

carbohydrates, calories 2800, proteid 110 gms. 

Breakfast, — Bacon, 100 gms.; eggs, 2; orange, 1; coffee with saccha- 
rine and cream. 11 a. m.. Cheese: cream or Swiss, 50 gms. 

Noon, — Beef, veal, lamb or chicken, 100 gms.; lettuce or tomato salad 
with oil; spinach, onions, cabbage or cauliflower, olives; cus- 
tard made of eggs and cream with saccharine or ice cream 
made the same way. 4 P. M., Soft cooked egg with butter. 

Supper, — Fish, 100 gms.; cucumber salad with oil; asparagus or beet 
tops; mushrooms, nuts; give all cream and butter possible. 
Vary diet within above limits. 60 per cent, centrifugal cream 
is used, diluted with water. 

At start give above diet with addition of 200 gms. bread. 
After two to four days, decrease bread gradually 100 gms. — 
50 gms. to strict diet. 

If acidosis increases with strict diet, give large doses of 
soda. Control in this way, and by changing diet. 

If patient has increasing acidosis on strict diet add soda 8 

^ Diet used at the Presbyterian Hospital, Xew York. 

^ Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. 



358 DIET IN DISEASE 

oz. a day, try method of starvation one day, vegetable diet 
(no carbohydrate) one day, oatmeal, 250 grammes one day, 
alternating. The same plan may be tried if there is failure 
to get sugar-free urine on strict diet; but first try plan of 
cutting down protein on strict diet, replacing protein with 
more cream and butter, as sugar is made from protein. Keep 
on strict diet one month after using sugar-free; then add 
bread 25 gms., etc. 

CHBONIC DIABETES DIET 

DIET. — Soups: Soups or broth of beef, chicken, mutton, veal, 
oysters, clams, terrapin or turtle (not thickened with any farinaceous 
substances), beef tea. 

Fish. — Shell fish and all kinds of fish, fresh, salted, dried, pickled 
or otherwise preserved (no dressing containing flour). 

Eggs. — In any way most acceptable. 

Meats. — Fat beef, mutton, ham or bacon, poultry, sweetbreads, 
•calf's head, sausage, kidneys, pig's feet, tongue, tripe, game (all 
cooked free of flour, potatoes, bread or crackers). 

Farinaceous. — Gluten porridge, gluten bread, gluten gems, gluten 
l)iscuits, gluten wafers, gluten griddle cakes, almond bread or cakes, 
bran bread or cakes. 

Vegetables. — String beans, spinach, beet-tops, chicory, kale, let- 
tuce, plain or dressed with oil and vinegar, cucumbers, onions, toma- 
toes, mushrooms, asparagus, oyster plant, celery, dandelions, cresses, 
radishes, pickles, olives. 

Desserts. — Custards, jellies, creams (without any sugar), walnuts, 
almonds, filberts, Brazil nuts, cocoanuts, pecans. 

Drinks. — Tea or coffee (without any sugar), pure water, pepto- 
nised milk, buttermilk. 

AVOID. — Liver, sugars, sweets or starches of any kind, wheaten 
bread or biscuits, corn bread, oatmeal, barley, rice, rye bread, arrow- 
root, sago, macaroni, tapioca, vermicelli, potatoes, parsnips, beets, 
turnips, peas, carrots, melons, fruits, puddings, pastry, pies, ices, 
honey, jams, sweet or sparkling wines, cordials, cider, porter, lager, 
chestnuts, peanuts. 

STJBSTITTJTES FOB STABCH AND STJGAB 

Gum Gluten Flour can be made into bread and a great variety of 
dishes, and is the most satisfactory substitute for the wheat flour 
bread or bread in common use, and the effects are particularly no- 
ticeable in the reduction of sugar in the daily tests. 

Bweetina is in the pure crystal form, and is made into a syrup by 



DISORDERS OF NUTRlflON 3oD 

adding cold water. Distilled water is preferable. It is sold in small 
bottles at 25 cents each, the contents of which is equal to eight pounds 
of sugar in sweetening power. 

One bottle of crystals makes one pint of syrup, of which a tea- 
spoonful is equal to a cupful of sugar. 

Sweetina is an improved product from coal tar. 

A DIABETIC CHABT 
Joslin and Ooodall i 

The intelligent management of a case of diabetes mellitus 
requires frequent comparisons between the diet, the urinary 
analyses and the weight of the patient. These data are often 
printed or written down in four or five different places, and 
the labor of uniting them is so great that.it is seldom at- 
tempted. Any accurate study of a case is thus extremely 
difficult, and in hospitals past records are almost useless. To 
facilitate the treatment of diabetic patients and to eliminate 
some of the annoying sources of error, we have used a chart 
for some years upon which some of these facts were recorded. 
Our chart was designed chiefly for the benefit of the physician, 
in contrast to the charts in use in various German clinics, 
which have a broader application and are of direct help not 
only to the physician, but also to the nurse and the patient 
as well. By this latter arrangement the chart becomes the 
nurse's record, and upon it the nurse writes what the patient 
actually eats. We have attempted to combine the two meth- 
ods on the following chart, and hope that it will be found 
helpful and suggestive in the treatment of diabetic patients. 

Space is reserved upon the chart for the Doctor's orders 
and the nurse's record, as well as the urinary analyses. 
There is given, in addition, a statement of the foods com- 
monly allowed in a strict diabetic diet, with the percent of 
carbohydrates in other foods which are occasionally em- 
ployed. 

^A Diabetic Chart by Elliott P. Joslin, M.D., and Harry W. OoodalU 
H.D., Boston, Mass. (Reprinted from the Boston Medical and Surgical 
Journal, Vol. clviii. No. 8, pp. 248-251, Feb. 20, 1908.) D. 0. Heath Jb 
Co., 120 Boylston St., Boston, Mass. 



360 



* DIET IN DISEASE 













S§ 










VtM 'tH 








*^5 








•<-> 










2 










o 


^ c 








Pi 








to 




pqfe 




» 






§ 


h . 






•o 


Wi-^ 






13 


4> -^ 






< 


(^ 




^ CO 






-S w 






3 

P4 






.2 


*^|g 






• 


§ 


^^l- 




, 








M 


CQ 


EH 






<^ 


-M 


Cd 








O 






•'!* i g 


Pm 


•3 




^is w 


o 








g 

M 


CO 




h^ 




'd 


f? 




< 






o 


..^-d 






AJ 


.Jh 4J-J-I 






1 








CL| 








^^^ 


Ace- 
tone 




• 








w—t 








< 




• 








a 








0} 








P^ 






0) 






• • 






c3 


at 






;z: 


C/20 




• 








o 








> 




0) 






• 


•M 






o 


rt 






2: 




Q 





•a 



CO 



•G ^ 
^ pj 



i 



0) 0) 



SQDH^N 






6 CO 






6 S 
Ph 



o 



axi 

If ^ 
o a 

HO 



a ti ei 
•St? So 






Is 

h4 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



361 



CO 



o 
ce 



OS 

o 
O, 

O 



■a 

5z; 




A 
QQ 




d 
o 
•o 
c 
u 
« 




a 
••* 




a 




00 

C3 




CO 

u 

o 









> « 2 

Q MM OQ 

d 

■** '^ o 

'^ <=^'§ 
P o 

^pS s 

M S 
-*^ oT .« 

OS A^ 03 

0^ C S 

Si * s 
k5 2 

g u « 

fC ^ 

« S 

s ^ 



o 

CI 





«8 



OS 
€8 



S3 « 

tf S ® § • « 

OJ3 CO h o o 

pLHCcnopQn 



SB 

A 

2 « 

s» 2 



d 

o 

a 



n 

+ M 5 

.A ait '^ ai 



an 

O 



»4 
e3 



a^'s 



I— I te 



03 O 

'is 

is 
§1 

« « 

pjQ QQ 






jd 

o 

O 



d 
Q 

V 



2 «-2 

o.z; d 



h h « <8 P< V P< ja d 



5w 



ID ■ 



s2 



d ^ ^ V 



»4 P « 3 

SSjS«o 






PLH Pc4 1^ pL^ pq 



+ 



S €8 d 5* 



BQ 

a 

o 

-I 



BQ BB «■ 
09 V S » 

•r* C ^t r. 



tag 



bbC « S S<ao.dS ^ 













BB 
U 00 ^ C V O 

O O t^S o 5 
""S 5(Vi 00 ►^ 

dag&fi««'S -s 

cs o>d bfi V a>»r d 



d 






60 

d 



BB O 
OB O 

a=jd 

«0 BS OD 

O0Q(>4 




>4 

5 fa 

•J 
o 



IB 






d^ 
OS'S';; *^ 

ifi'd a^ 

flS (S o 



362 



DIET IN DISEASE 



Gluten Porridge, 

Gluten Toast, 



MENUS FOB THE DIABETIC 

WINTEB 
SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Steak 



Scrambled Eggs, 
Coffee, 



Oysters, 



Olives, 



Boiled Onions, 



Dinner 
Celery Soup, 



Parsley Omelet, 



Shrimp and Lettuce Salad, 
Salted Almonds, 
Baked Custard. 

Supper 
Gluten Crisp in Milk, 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 
Gluten Breakfast Food, 

Gluten Muffins, 
Luncheon 



Gluten Biscuit Criips, 
Spinach, 



Oyster Stew, 

Celery, 



Bouillon, 



"Nuts, 



Coffee, 



Dinner 

Creamed Salmon, 
String Beans, 

Pineapple Ice, 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Griddle Cakes, 
Codfish Croquettes, 

Gluten Bread, 

Luncheon 

Creamed Dried Beef, 
Cream Cheese, with Lettuce, 
Gluten Toast, 

Orated Pineapple, with Whipped Cream. 



Coffee, 



Gluten Crackers, 
Tea. 



Olives, 



Coffee, 



Creamed Celery, 
Coffee. 



Tea 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 



363 



DiNNEB 

Crecwy of Onion Soup, 
Baked Eggs, Fried Sour Apples, 

Celery, Pickles, Cabbage Salad, 

Oluten Biscuit Crisps and Cream Cheese, Coffee Jelly 



WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten French Toast, 

Baked Apples, Coffee. 

Luncheon 



Boiled Eggs, 



Chicken Salad, 
Olives, 



Broiled Lobster, 

Onions, 
Cheese Souffle, 



Oluten Bread and Butter, 
Tea, 



Dinner 
Tomato Soup, 



Spinach, 



Mayonnaise, 
Coffee. 



THURSDAY 

Breakfast 
Oluten Granules, 

Luncheon 

Dinner 

Little Neck Clams, 
Pickles, Lettuce, Onions, 

Walnut Gluten Biscuit Crisps, 

Pineapple Ice, 



Cresses, 

Scalloped Oysters, 
Cold Slaw, 



Gluten Mufflns, 

Nut Sandwiches, 
Tea, 

Oyster Plant, 

French Dressing, 
Coffee, 



FRIDAY 

Breakfast 
Gluten Breakfast Food, Fried, 



Mackerel, 



Egg Sauce, 



Gluten Drop Biscuit. 



Luncheon 

Aspic Jelly, with Tongue, 

Lettuce Sandwiches with Gluten Bread, 

Tea^ Cream, 



364 DIET IN DISEASE 

DiNXEB 

Fried Oysters, Celery, Baked Fish, 

Creamed Cabbage, Canned Asparagus, 

Tomato Jelly, Mayonnaise, 

Gluten Nut Sandwiches, 

Club Cheese, Coffee, 

Sliced Pineapple. 

SATURDAY 
Bbeakfast 

Oluten Oriddle Cakes, Bam and Eggs, 

Fried Sour Apples, Coffee. 

Lhncheon 

Clam Soup, Gluten Baking Powder Biscuit, 

Xoodles au Gratin and Cheese, Tea, 

DiNNEB 

Fish Croquettes, Tomato Sauce, 

Boiled Chicken, Chestnut Dressing, 

Baked Onions, Tomatoes, Dressed Celery, 

Cheese, Coffee, 

STJinCEB 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Breakfast Food, 

Sliced Tomatoes, Cresses, 

Gluten Muffins, Coffee. 

Dinner 

Asparagus Soup, Broiled Chicken Cresses, 

Green Onions, Creamed, on Gluten Toast, 
, Beet-Tops, Lettuce, French Dressing, 

Gluten Cheese-Crackers, 
Whipped Cream, with Chopped Nuts, 
flavored with Sweetina and Vanilla, 

Coffee. 

Supper 

Tomato Mayonnaise, 
Gluten Nut Sandiciches, 
Iced Tea, tcith Sweetina. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 365 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Porridge, 
' Minced Chicken on Oluten Toast, 
Omelet, with Asparagus Tips, 
Gluten Bread, Coffee 

Luncheon 

Creamed Sweethreads, 
Gluten Bread and Butter, Tea, Cream. 

Dinner 

Bouillon, Veal Cutlet, 

String Beans, Cucumbers, 

Egg Salad, icith Cresses, French Dressing, 
Coffee Jelly, Whipped Cream. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Oluten Pancakes, Fried Perch, 

Gluten Toast, Boiled Eggs, Radishes, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Codfish Croquettes, Cucumbers, Lettuce, 

Gluten Drop Biscuit, Tea. 

Dinner 

Veal Broth, tcith Lemon and Parsley, 

Spinach, Tomatoes, 

Asparagus, French Dressing, 

Cheese Souffle, Coffee. 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Oluten Breakfast Food, 

Frozen Tomatoes, Scramble Eggs, 

Oluten Bread, Coffee. 

Luncheon 

Omelet, with Earn, Lettuce and Onions, 

Oluten Bread, , Tea. 

Dinner 

Fried Fish, Cresses, Cold Lamb, 

Baked Onions, Asparagus, 

Cabbage Salad, Oluten Crctckers, 

Pineapple Sherbet, Coffee. 



366 



DIET IN DISEASE 



Radishes, 



Olives, 



THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Oluten Cfriddle Cakes, 
Stoeethreads, hreaded with gluten cruinhs 

and fried, 
Oluten Biscuit, 

Luncheon 

Broiled Mushrooms, 
Oluten Bread, 



Coffee. 



Tea. 



Dinner 

Cream of Tomato Soup, 
Escalloped Fish, Olives, Oluten Bread, 

Cold Tongue, String Beans, 

Tomatoes, Baked Gluten doodles, Iced Coffee. 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Gluten Porridge, Creamed Codfish, 

Coddled Eggs, Oluten Drop Biscuit, 

Coffee, 

Luncheon 

Cheese Pudding, Gluten Sandwiches, 

Gluten Bread, Pineapple Ice Cream, Tea. 

Dinner 

Cream of Spinach Soup, Broiled Shad, 

Tomatoes, Cucumbers, 

Sliced Onions, Asparagus Salad, 

Gluten Nut Sandwiches, 
Cream Cheese, Gluten Wafers, Coffee. 



Gluten Muffins, 



SATURDAY 

Breakfast 
Oluten Breakfast Food, Fried, 



Coffee, 
Luncheon 



Tomato Omelet, 



Tongue, 
Gluten Bread and Butter, 



Shad Roe, 



Iced Tea. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 367 

DiNNEB 

Lamh Broth, Boiled Squab, 

Tomatoes, Creases, 

Lettuce, Aspic, tcith Mayonnaise, Cheese, 

Custard, with Nuts, Iced Coffee, 

UTHEKIA OE EXCESS OF TJEIC ACID 

Treatment for Uric Acid. Exercise in the open air — 
walk — plenty of fresh air by night as well as by day. 
Breathe deeply. Bathe often ; rub the body thoroughly after- 
ward; the skin should play an important part in elimination 
of uric acid. 

To prevent the formation of an over supply of uric acid, 
be careful of diet. The first thing, do not eat meat. You 
may eat nuts with salt, fresh ripe fruit; best of all, apples 
unpeeled; all cooked fruits, but very little sugar in them; 
all vegetables that grow above ground (not those that grow 
below ground) ; greens are especially good, with good cider 
vinegar. Bread may be eaten in moderation, graham and 
entire wheat best, good water crackers, cereals of all kinds; 
eggs should be used sparingly, and in severe cases not at all. 
Fish is good, also shellfish.^ No pastry or sweet cakes; milk 
and cheese may be used freely, also buttermilk. Drink no 
coffee, tea, malt or alcoholic liquors. Drink pure water and 
a great deal of it ; sometimes it is well to use lithia tablets. 

ACUTE OOUT 

Dietetic Treatment. During acute attacks the diet must 
be restricted, but the extent of restriction will depend upon 
age, habits and conditions of the patient. 

Meat and alcohol as a rule are excluded. As a rule it is 
best to exclude meat, more especially red meat, and, unless 
especially necessary, forbid alcohol. In old people, with 
feeble circulation, accustomed to the regular and free use of 
alcohol, it may be necessary to allow a small amount. If the 
kidneys be seriously at fault it may be best not even to give 
small amount of alcohol. 

For the young and strong the diet should consist mainly 



3G8 DIET IN DISEASE 

of farinaceous substances and broths, made not too strong, 
such as bread and milk, a cup of weak tea with milk, dry- 
toast with a little butter, vegetable broths, two ounces of milk 
with Vichy water ; rice, sago, semolina or an farinaceous pud- 
ding made without eggs. 

He should sip half a pint of hot water twice or thrice 
daily between meals, and barley water and toast water may 
be allowed. After acute symptoms have subsided, boiled fish 
and a little chicken may be given once a day, and nourish- 
ment carefully and gradually increased. 

For old or feeble persons the diet, although kept in same 
lines, must be more supporting; have broths, etc., stronger, 
and beef juice, chicken broth and an egg beaten up in a 
glass of milk once a day. Alcohol may also be necessary. 

In protracted cases it may be necessary to allow more 
nutritious diet, including fish, soup and white meats, as well 
as an allowance of brandy or whiskey. 

CHEONIC GOUT 

DIET : Soups. — Clear vegetable broths, fresh fish soup. 

Fish, — Fresh fish broiled or boiled, raw oysters. 

Meats, — Eat of all kinds sparingly, game, chicken, fat bacon. 

Farinaceous, — Crackers, dry toast, milk toast, macaroni, graham 
bread or rolls, rye bread, whole wheat bread, or biscuit, cereals. 

Vegetables, — Celery, lettuce, cresses, cucumbers, cabbage, spinach^ 
string beans, green peas, mashed potatoes. 

Desserts, — (All without sugar). Plain milk puddings, junket, rice 
and milk. Stewed fruits. 

Liquids, — Pure water, hot or cold; toast water, buttermilk, milk,, 
malted milk, weak tea (no sugar). 

AVOID. — Champagne, sweet wines, malt liquors, cider, coffee,, 
tobacco, dried fruits, nuts, cheese, sweets, pastry, pies, spices, rich 
puddings, fried dishes, vinegar, pickles, lemons, rhubarb, mush- 
rooms, asparagus, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, gravies, patties, rich 
soup, eggs, lobster, salmon, crabs, mackerel, eel, veal, pork, goose,, 
duck, turkey; salted, dried, potted or preserved fish or meat (except 
fat bacon). 

ACUTE EHEUKATISIC 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. While the fever lasts and other symp- 

iW. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 369 

toms are acute, such as pain and swelling of the joints, the 
patient should be put upon a fluid diet. The majority of 
eases do best at this time with an exclusive milk or bread- 
and-milk diet. Those patients who cannot take milk, how- 
ever, may be allowed soups and broths flavored with vegetable 
extracts, chicken tea, milk toast, barley or oatmeal gruel, 
clam broth. 

Thirst is often a prominent sjrmptom, especially if there 
be much fever, and it is advisable for the patient to drink 
fluid freely to assist in washing out the waste products from 
the body. Lemonade and slightly acid drinks of various 
kinds, such as dilute phosphoric acid or the eflEervescent min- 
eral waters, are recommended. Boiled milk and Seltzer or 
Vichy may be drunk, or oatmeal or barley water flavored 
with lemon. Alcohol should be avoided while the acute symp- 
toms last, unless the complication of inflammation of the 
endocardium or pericardium enfeeble the heart action, if pro- 
longed and anaemia is considerable, alcohol may be given as 
a tonic two or three times a day in the form of a glass of 
claret or Burgundy (one to two ounces), or diluted whiskey. 

During convalescence the appetite is not usually vigorous,, 
and it is not necessary to urge the taking of much food at 
first. The diet should be principally farinaceous, but not 
saccharine. 

Such articles may be given as rice (plain or spiced), arrow- 
root, oatmeal, cornmeal, semolina, wheaten grits, panada, milk 
toast, simple unsweetened puddings, wine jelly, blanc-mange 
and malted foods. 

The return to solid diet should be gradual, and for a long 
time the patient should abstain from eating meats as well as 
from pastry and sweets. Fagge states that no meat or fish 
should be allowed for at least a week after subsidence of the 
fever and acute symptoms, or, "^better, for a fortnight, and 
many believe that beef tea is harmful. Meat can undoubtedly 
induce a relapse. 

When convalescence becomes established, eggs, fish, oysters, 
and white meat of broiled or roasted chickens may be given,, 



370 DIET IN DISEASE 

and one or two such vegetables as asparagus, spinach, or 
stewed celery, with a baked apple or fresh fruit, but sweets 
and alcohol should long be withheld. 

The patient should be fed often, having one or two extra 
lunches during the day, for anaemia is apt to prevail for some 
time, and abundant nutriment is required. 

KHEUHATISK 
Uassaohusetts General Hospital i 

DIET. — Graham or brown bread, white bread limited (% slice 
daily), corn, granum, rice, milk, eggs, flour, puddings, crackers, 
beans, peas, all kinds of vegetables (except potatoes and cooked 
tomatoes), rhubarb, fresh fish; butter, cheese, buttermilk, cream, 
alkaline waters, toast. 

AVOID. — Red meats, starch or potatoes, white bread, sugars. 

GHKONIC KHETTMATISK 

DIET: Soup, — Beef tea, chicken and mutton broth in small 
quantities. 

Fish, — Raw oysters or clams, white fleshed fresh fish — broiled or 
boiled. 

Meat. — Sweetbreads, chicken, tripe, broiled fat bacon or boiled 
ham (all sparingly). 

Farinaceous. — Boston brown bread, corn, whole wheat bread, 
cornstarch, rice, milk toast, dry toast, graham bread, granum, butter, 
crackers. 

Vegetables. — All except potatoes and cooked tomatoes. 

Desserts. — Plain puddings, rhubarb; junket (all without sugar). 

Liquids. — Milk, cream, buttermilk, malted milk, alkaline waters, 
tea, cocoa (no sugar), pure water, plain or with lemon or lime (no 
sugar). 

AVOID. — Red meats, pork, turkey, goose, duck, veal, fried fish, 
cooked oysters or clams, salted, dried, potted or preserved fish or 
meats' (except ham and bacon). Lobsters, crabs, salmon, eggs, rich 
pies, made dishes, gravies, potatoes, tomatoes, asparagus, mushrooms, 
rich puddings, candies, nuts, cheese, coffee, cider, malt liquors, wines. 

DIET IN OBESITT 

This is one of the most important features of dietetic 
therapy, and is older and better known than any other, prob- 
ably because of its connection with conditioning athletes for 

^Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Boston. 



DISORDERS OF NUTRITION 371 

all kinds of contests and also from the cosmetic point of 
view, as superfluous flesh generally implies advanced years* 
Unlike many other plans of diet it concerns the nominally 
healthy rather than the sick and invalid. 

The old trainer of athletes knew little or nothing of any 
scientific regimen for reducing adipose tissue. For him re- 
duction of weight was merely a matter of getting rid of 
superfluous water, to be accomplished by sweating, purgation 
and abstinence from fluids. He rejected certain articles of 
diet as "bad for the wind,^^ but this is as near as he came 
to specializing in diet. Exercise, without profuse perspira- 
tion, meant nothing to him. The steady grind of a worker 
who bums up so much excess fat daily, yet without any un- 
usual degree of perspiration, is something he took no account 
of. 

Of recent years it has been learned that abstinence, hot 
baths and purgation, are far less efficacious in keeping down 
weight than continuous and vigorous exercise within the fa- 
tigue limit. It is much less a matter of starvation and 
elimination than of a steady oxidation of superfluous tissue 
by graded and varied exercises extending throughout the day. 
But while constant exercise is the chief essential, it is also 
important to curb the appetite for food and drink, and to 
keep the excretory organs active. Otherwise, in the case of 
novices at least, increased exercise will provoke increased 
appetite for food and drink, so that not a few people gain 
flesh while trying to lose it. 

Doubtless the best plan for reducing flesh without suffering 
and violence is to do a great amount of work daily, severe 
enough in character to oxidize much body fat, but without 
profuse waste of fluids by sweating, etc. In regard to the 
meals, these should be small, light and as frequent as desired. 
Nothing should be taken to provoke thirst. Any food-article 
whatever which is especially rich in starch, sugar or fat, along 
with alcoholics, must be omitted. Such individuals thrive 
best on toast or biscuit without butter; lean meats, fish and 
eggs; and vegetables which grow above ground. 



372 DIET IN DISEASE 

The selection of food difiEers but little from the diabetic 
regimen, but some carbohydrates are allowed, while the fatty 
articles, including milk, permissible in diabetes, are to be 
avoided. The patient is not to be stinted in quantity pro- 
vided he takes the necessary amount of exercise. He may 
breakfast freely on eggs, meat and toast, dine on meats and 
salad vegetables, etc. He should take as little fluid as pos- 
sible with his meals, but may quench his thirst between meals. 
sBy masticating his food thoroughly he materially reduces the 
demand, and does away with eating for the mere sake of eat- 
ing. 

By simple measures of this sort an individual may reduce 
his weight to as great degree as desirable, and the process 
will not be painful but the reverse. He simply oxidizes and 
otherwise utilizes a little more matter than he takes in, and 
thereby prevents a pathological and unsafe accumulation of 
fat. 

DIET: Fish. — All fresh white fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats, — Lean mutton or lamb, beef chicken, game (sparingly). 

Eggs. — Cooked in all ways (not fried). 

Farinaceous. — Dry toast or crusts, stale bread (sparingly). 

Vegetables. — Lettuce, celery, spinach, cresses, asparagus, cauli- 
flowers, white cabbage, onions, tomatoes, radishes, olives. 

Liquids. — Coffee or tea, one cup without milk, cream or sugar; 
pure water one glass, drank slowly after the meal. 

AVOID. — Dark flesh flsh, rich soups, salt fish, veal, pork, sausage, 
fats, potatoes, oatmeal, hominy, macaroni, spices, rice, carrots, beets, 
turnips, parsnips, puddings, pastry, pies, sugar, sweets, cakes, 
cream, milk, spirituous liquors, beers, sweet rums, champagne. 



CHAPTER XVI 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

ACTTTE QASTKITIS 
Einhom i 

During the first or second day of illness it is best not to 
give the patient anything substantial to eat. Strained barley 
or rice water, or weak tea may be taken. On the third day, 
as soon as the appetite reappears, the patient is permitted to 
partake of water soup (bread and hot water) oatmeal or bar- 
ley gruel, rice soup, and perhaps one soft-cooked egg. Later 
on French bread, butter and oysters may be added to the 
dietary. 

If the improvement is steadily progressing the fourth day 
begin with meat once a day, and thus slowly return to the 
usual bill of fare. 

CHEONIC GASTEITIS 
Einhom i 

The regulation of the diet is of prime importance in the 
treatment. The dietary to be selected will depend on the 
severity of the symptoms. 

At the beginning, therefore, a light diet will be called 
for. The patient should partake of four meals daily. The 
articles of food should be given largely in liquid and semi- 
liquid forms; that is, milk, kumyss, matzoon, barley, oat- 
meal, and rice soup prepared in milk; chicken soup with an 
egg beaten up in it ; soft-cooked eggs, mashed potatoes, scraped 
meat, raw, or boiled, toasted bread, and also French white 
bread (not too fresh) ; butter; tea and cocoa. 

^Maz Einhorn, M.D.: "Disease of the Stomach." New York. Wil- 
liam Wood & Go. 

373 



374 DIET IN DISEASE 

The quantity of nourishment for each meal should neither 
be excessively large nor too small. 

My own bill of fare for the first week of the treatment is as 
follows : 

Eight o'clock: Calories. 

Two eggs 160 

Two ounces of French white bread 156 

One-half ounce of butter 107 

One cup of tea (100 gm. of tea, .150 gm. milk) 101 

Sugar 10 gm. (3 iiss.) 40 

Half past ten o'clock: 

Kumyss or matzoon or milk, 250 gm. (J viii. Vg) 168 

Crackers, 30 gm. (one ounce) 107 

Butter, 20 gm. (3 v.) 163 

Half past twelve o'clock: 

Two ounces of tenderloin steak, or of white meat of chicken . 76 

Mashed potatoes, or thick rice, 100 gm. (J iii. %) 127 

White bread, two ounces 153 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 

One cup of cocoa, 200 gm. (J vi. %) 101 

Half past three o'clock: 

The same as half past ten 433 

Half past six o'clock: 

Farina, hominy, or rice boiled in milk, one plateful, 250 gm. 

(S viii. 1/3) 440 

Two scrambled eggs 160 

Bread, two ounces 156 

Butter, one-half ounce 107 



2.863 



The patient having been kept on this diet for a week or 
two, the diet must be gradually changed to one suitable for 
the lighter forms of chronic gastritis. Here the following 
rule will apply: The diet should correspond as nearly as 
possible to the common mode of living. In this way the dis- 
tribution of the meals should be arranged according to the 
customs prevailing in those places in which the patient lives. 

All food derived from the vegetable kingdom should be 
given in large portions, while the quantity of meat should be 
somewhat limited. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 375 

In order to permit the patient to have a greater variety 
in his food, it is best not to point out a few articles he 
should eat, but to mention only those he should avoid. For- 
bid meat with very tough fibers, meat from too old animals 
or too fresh meat (right after slaughtering), meat that con- 
tains too much fat, like pork; forbid sausages, lobster, sal- 
mon, chicken salad, mayonnaise, cucumbers, pickles, cabbage, 
strong alcoholic drinks like liquors. 

It must be impressed upon the patient to masticate the 
food thoroughly, to eat slowly, not to think of business dur- 
ing meals, and to stop eatiM before the sensation of satiety 
appears. The latter advice is only necessary in persons who 

are accustomed to high living. 

******** 

Chronic gastric catarrh is frequently combined with con- 
stipation. The diet can be arranged as to facilitate move- 
ment of the bowels. All foods which contain a large per- 
centage of cellulose (undigested matter) increase the quantity 
of feces, thereby efiEecting a stronger peristalsis of the larger 
bowel. 

All kind of green vegetables (spinach, asparagus, green 
peas) and rye bread are therefore very suitable. Many or- 
ganic acids possess the property of increasing intestinal peri- 
stalsis. Almost all kinds of fruits contain a certain quantity 
of these organic acids, and act like mild aperients. The use 
of cooked pears, stewed or baked apples, stewed prunes, is in 
many instances effective. Ewald recommends a mixture of 
two parts of prunes to one part of dried figs. The taste is 
agreeable, and the cathartic action mild. The custom of 
eating an orange in the morning for its laxative effect is well 
known. To these dietary remedies we may also add the use 
of a glassful of either very cold or warm water, or a glass of 
milk in arising, in the fasting condition. 

There are many persons in whom one of these latter means 
produces a good movement of the bowels. 



376 DIET IN DISEASE 

TTICEK OF THE 8T0KAGH 
Einhom i 

The diet consists of liquids — milk, milk with strained 
barley, or oatmeal, or rice water; plain water, weak tea and 
peptone (one teaspoon to a cup of water). Debove and 
Eemond have suggested the addition of lactose and of meat 
powder to the milk, in order to make the diet richer in 
nourishment substances. 

As a rule, we employ the above-named additions, which 
fulfill the same purposes, besides varying the monotonous bill 
of fare. 

First week. During the first week we give the patient half 
a cup (about 100-150 c.c.) of either, every hour. Every- 
thing the patient takes must be neither cold or very warm, 
and should be taken slowly (sipping, or with a spoon). 

Second week. During the second week we order the same 
kind of food, with this dijBference, that he is nourished every 
. two hours, and gets a cupful or a cupful and a half (200 to 
300 C.C.) at a time. 

Occasionally we now allow the patient one raw egg beaten 
up in the milk, once or twice a day. In the beginning of the 
third week we feed the patient every three hours; he is al- 
lowed barley, farina, and rice (well cooked) in milk, soft- 
cooked eggs, crackers softened in milk, in addition to his 
previous foods ; in the .third day of the third week we begin 
to give the patient meat, first raw, well scraped, then broiled. 

Thereafter we go over to the ordinary daily diet, exclud- 
ing heavy salads, pastry, raw fruit and the like. 

In the following table I give an outline of diet which I 
ordinarily prescribe in this affection : 

OTTTLINE OF DIET IN QASTEIC TTLGEE 

First Three Days 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M.: milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

8 " milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

»Max Einhorn, M.D. : "Disease of the Stomach.*' New York. Wil- 
liam Wood & Go. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 377 

9 A. M.: milk, 150 C.C. (five ounces) 101 

10 " milk and strained barley water (ftft, 150 C.C.) 80 

11 " milk, 150 C.C 101 

12 " milk, 160 C.C 101 

1 p. M. : bouillon either alone or with the addition of one to 

two teaspoonfuls of a peptone preparation, 150 

C.C 30 

2 " milk 101 

3 " milk 101 

4 " milk 101 

5 " milk with strained barley or oatmeal 80 

6, 7, 8, 9 P. M. : milk, 150 C.C 404 



7 


A. M. 


9 


« 


11 


« 


1 


P. M. 


3 


(( 


5 


t( 


7 


(( 


9 


it 



7 


A. H. 


• 
• 


9 


(( 




11 


(( 




1 


P. M. 


• 

• 


3 


i( 




6 


(( 




7 


(( 




9 


(( 





1.402 
Fourth to the Tenth Day 

Number 
of Calories. 

milk, 300 C.C. (ten ounces) ♦. 202 

milk^ 300 C.C. (ten ounces) 202 

milk with barley, rice, or oatmeal water, 300 C.C. . 160 
one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, and one egg beaten 

up in it 80 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk with barley water, 300 C.C 100 

milk, 300 C.C 202 



1.410 
Eleventh to the Fourteenth Day 

Number of 
Calories. 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers softened (one ounce) 100 

milk with barley water, 300 C.C 160 

one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C, one egg, and two 

crackers 180 

milk, 300 C.C, and one egg 282 

milk, 300 C.C, 202 

and two crackers 100 

milk, with barley water 160 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

1.790 



378 DIET IN DISEASE 

Fourteenth to the Seventeenth Day 

Number o£ 
Calories. 

7 am.: milk, 300 C.C 202 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

and two crackers (one ounce) 100 

11 " milk with barley, 300 C.C 342 

1 P. M. : scraped meat, 60 gm 60 

two crackers, one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C lOO 

3 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

6 " milk, 300 CO 202 

one egg (soft boiled) 80 

two crackers 100 

7 " milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



2.134 
Seventeenth to Twenty-Fourth Day 

Number of 
Calories. 

7 A. M. : two eggs (soft boiled ) 160 

butter, 10 gm 81 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

milk, 300 C.C 202 

10 " milk, 300 C.C 202 

crackers, 60 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

1 p. M : lamb chops (broiled) , 50 C.C 60 

mashed potatoes, 50 gm 44 

toasted bread, 50 gm 130 

butter, 10 gm.; one cup of bouillon, 200 C.C 81 

4 " the same as at 10 a. m 530 

6:30 " milk with farina, 300 C.C 342 

crackers, 50 gm 166 

butter, 20 gm 162 

9 " milk, 300 C.C 202 



2.820 



In cases of ulcer of the stomach presenting a more severe 
type — violent pains, frequent vomiting, inability to take 
food on account of the pains — or after haematemesis, I 
usually have the patient abstain from any food whatever. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 379 

given by the mouth, for a period of five days. The patient 
is then fed by the rectum. This is done in the following way : 
early each morning the patient receives a large enema of 
about a quart of lukewarm water, in which a teaspoonful of 
common tablesalt has been dissolved as a cleansing enema. 
About an hour after the patient has emptied the injected 
water, the first nourishing enema is given; this may consist 
either of a glassful of milk (about 200 c.c), in which a raw 
egg has been well beaten and a pinch of salt added, or of a 
cupful of water in which a tablespoon of a good peptone 
preparation has been dissolved. The temperature of either 
must be about 100° F. Such a nourishing enema is given 
three or four times a day. The quantity of the feeding enema 
is 200-250 c.c, and it is slowly injected by means of a foun- 
tain syringe and a soft-rubber rectal tube. The patient may 
frequently wash his mouth with cold water, and is allowed 
from time to time to keep a small piece of chopped ice in 
his mouth, and to swallow the melted water. The five days 
being over, the mode of diet is the same as described above 
for the ordinary form of ulcer. 

QA8TEIC TTLCEE DIET 
Kassachusetts General Hospital i 

1. Dr. Hewes's Diet for Gastric and Duodenal Ulcer. Two 
oz. milk, •! soda cracker (powdered), 1 oz. sugar, every two 
hours. Give two to three days, then increase to 6-8 oz. milk, 
1-2 oz. sugar, 4 soda crackers, every two hours. Continue 
for two to three weeks, then adopt the following : Eight feed- 
ings in 24 hrs. : (1) milk and crackers; (2) Indian meal 
porridge with cream or salt; (3) potato puree, jelly; (4) 
milk and whites of two eggs; (5) soft custard; (6) hot choco- 
late; (7) pea puree strained through fine wire mesh; (8) 
milk and crackers. 

2. "The Lenhartz Diet.'' The "Lenhartz diet'' begins 
with 100 c.c. milk and one egg daily, in teaspoonful doses, 

1 Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 

Dr. Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, MassachusettB Oeneral HospitaL 



380 



DIET IN DISEASE 



gradually increasing until at the end of four weeks a liberal 
mixed diet is allowed, always avoiding coarse vegetables and 
irritating substances. 

The gradual increase of food appears in the accompanying 
scale. 

In preparing the eggs they are beaten very light, without 
salt, a small amount of sugar frequently added, the bowl kept 
in a pan of cracked ice. At first the milk is given with 
shaved ice. Some of the milk, eggs, and sugar are made into 
custard on the tenth day. The beef is scraped and weighed 
after cooking; the ham is chopped very fine; occasionally 
lime water has to be added to the milk, and, if large curds 
form, the milk is diluted with barley water. Great care is 
exercised in the transition stages from liquids to semi-solids 
and finally to full diet. 



Lenhartz' Diet 







> 
> 


1 


J 


1 


1 




1 

Gms, 






1 


1 


200 
200 


Cms, 


Cms, 


Cms. 


Gms» 


Cms, 






2 


2 
















3 


3 
4 


300 


















4 


400 


20 












5 


5 


500 


20 














6 


6 


600 


30 


35 












7 


7 


700 


30 










8 


8 


800 


40 


70 


100 










9 


8 


900 
1000 
1000 


40 


70 


100 


20 


50 






10 


8 


50 


70 


200 


40 
40 






11 


8 


50 


70 
70 


200 


20 






12 


8 


1000 


30 


r300 


60 


50 


40 






Continue for 3 weeks 









CHAPTER XVII 
DIET IN INTESTINAL DISEASES 

DIET IN DY8FEF8IA 

Modern clinical medicine does not recognize such a dis- 
ease as dyspepsia. In a great variety of local and general 
conditions digestion is more or less disordered. It may be 
too rapid, too slow, difficult, imperfect for one or more of 
the classes of foods, or abolished outright. Specialists base 
diets largely on the results of test-meals, so that the diet in 
a given case becomes individualized. If a person with ordi- 
nary symptoms of chronic indigestion is to be dieted, and 
the cause of the affection is not known, the regimen for 
chronic gastritis will answer (p. 373). But if in addition 
to indigestion there is unusual irritability of the stomach, the 
diet must consist of most easily digested articles of solid food, 
and if necessary of semi-solid or liquid food. In other words, 
he is dieted like a convalescent from some severe acute dis- 
ease, or a child at weaning time. 

DIET: Soup. — Oysters and thin, clear beef and mutton soup. 

Fish. — Fresh mackerel, bass, perch, shad, cod, raw oysters. 

Meats. — Game, sweetbreads, tender meats, chopped meats, broiled 
calf's head, tongue, tripe, lamb, chicken, mutton and beef. 

Eggs. — Eggs raw, soft and hard cooked. 

Farinaceous. — Graham bread, whole wheat bread, corn bread, 
stale bread, dry toast, crackers, tapioca, sago, cornstarch, rice, oats, 
hominy, cracked wheat. 

Vegetables. — Asparagus, celery, cresses, lettuce, green peas, string 
beans, sweet corn, spinach. 

Desserts. — Ripe fruit — raw or stewed ; apple tapioca, apple snow, 
baked apples, custards, junkets, rice, tapioca, cornstarch, or bread 
puddings. 

Liquids. — Liquid Peptonoids on cracked ice, pure cold water, hot 
water and milk ( equal parts ) , malted milk, weak tea and coffee, not 

381 



382 DIET IN DISEASE 

more than one cup at a time and taken slowly after a meal; un- 
fermented grape juice. 

AVOID. — Ice water, spirituous liquors, nuts, cheese, ice cream, 
pastry, pies, candies, salmon, lobster, crabs, sausages, ducks, goose, 
salted, smoked or preserved fish; pickled, potted, corned or cured 
meats, kidney, liver, fried foods, gravies, potatoes, turkey, stews, 
hashes, pork, veal, rich soups, chowder. 

DIET IN CONSTIPATION 

It is almost as diflBcult to prescribe a diet for constipation 
as it is for dyspepsia, and for the same reason, namely, con- 
stipation is not in itself a disease, but a symptom or result of 
many diseases. As a general rule, however, a certain diet is 
more or less suitable for any kind of constipation. By the 
latter term we usually mean a delayed action of the bowels 
due to a natural weakness of the muscles of the intestines, or 
to an acquired weakness due to too concentrated a form of 
nourishment or to a sedentary life. In a certain percentage 
of cases the delayed action of the bowels is due to temporary- 
spasm of the intestinal muscle, and this may even occur in 
association with weakness of the muscle, as is seen in hysteri- 
cal women. There is finally delayed bowel action in a great 
number and variety of diseases. 

The resources employed in treating the diseases which 
cause constipation include many plans beside diet, yet the 
latter is indispensable. 

A mixed diet is very necessary, for purely animal food 
products, as meat, fish, eggs, milk, cheese, etc., conduce to 
constipation because absorption of such foods is so nearly 
complete that not enough residue remains in the intestines to 
stimulate peristalsis. On the other hand, a diet of vegetables^ 
involving a large indigestible residue, causes large fecal mo- 
tions, but these are not promptly expelled unless the intestine 
is healthy. Much extra work is thrown upon the intestine 
when a vegetarian diet is used exclusively; and as a result 
of such excessive work the intestine becomes in time weak- 
ened. 

Constipation from whatever cause and of whatever nature 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 383 

may be, when sufficiently pronounced, sufficient to render a 
healthy man or woman sick. Digestion becomes impaired, 
appetite lost. This fact alone teaches us that in dieting a 
constipated subject we often have to deal with a sick in- 
dividual. It has often been stated that a patient or his life- 
long companions are better judges as to his diet than a 
physician hastily consulted. 

Ewald, and doubtless most stomach specialists, are opposed 
to an exclusive calorie plan of feeding in all gastro-intestinal 
diseases. This is natural because food which is theoretically 
indicated cannot be managed by the digestive organs. If an 
attempt is made to feed a patient thus afiEected with 3000 
calories of food, the result will be complete repugnance to 
all food. The amount of food ingested in these cases, in 
the most palatable and digestible form, cannot come up to 
the calorie standard. The quantity ingested in such pa- 
tients is so low as to be quite beneath the efficient level. The 
inference is natural that such patients must draw on their 
reserve fund to make up the calories. 

Hence the only course to pursue is to cure the condition 
which causes the constipation as soon as possible. For mere 
sluggish action of the bowels, not amounting to disease, many 
popular dietetic remedies are employed. It is by no means 
certain that this delayed action in many healthy persons is 
other than natural or temperamental. Fletcher has shown 
that as a result of his reduced diet and excessive mastication 
of food which contains not much indigestible residue, sterile 
and odorless feces are formed which cause no discomfort, and 
insists that such people need have no anxiety about their 
bowels. On the other hand, very many people who have reg- 
ular daily evacuations suffer from retention of fecal matter; 
only careful palpation of the sigmoid flexure will inform us 
as to whether the bowels are actually empty. 

Of household dietetic procedures for securing daily evacua- 
tions, the most common is the drinking of cold water on ris- 
ing — one, two or more glasses. To this a little common salt 
may be added. Many men depend for their morning evacua- 



384 DIET IN DISEASE 

tion on smoking a cigar after breakfast. Women, as already 
stated, find the morning draugtt of cold water valuable. 
The use of fruit at or before breakfast often causes an evacua- 
tion during the day. This is true especially of apples, pears^ 
oranges, etc. Buttermilk is also largely used for this purpose. 
The vegetable acids with the large amount of indigestible 
residue make certain fruits valuable as laxatives. This is 
true also of berries, although those which contain tannin 
(blackberries) may tend to constipate. Dried fruits, such as 
figs and prunes are especially useful. The use of sweet cider 
as a marked laxative seems to illustrate again the laxative 
power of vegetable acids. Very sweet substances in large 
amounts, chiefly honey and molasses are notably laxative. 
Oatmeal, among the cereal foods, is noted for its laxative 
powers. Beans and peas, popularly believed to be laxative, 
are really constipating; but the fermentation of the large 
amount of cellulose gives the illusion of impending diarrhoea. 
Oils and fats are laxative to many people. A word of cau- 
tion must here be inserted. Many of these substances care- 
lessly spoken of as laxatives, often behave as violent purga- 
tives, especially in individuals who alternate between consti- 
pation and diarrhoea. The severe diarrhoea set up at times 
by sweet cider, molasses and other relatively inert sub- 
stances should teach us caution in giving such articles to 
patients. 

No more important hygienic regimen can be adopted than the fol- 
lowing: 1. Eat fruit before retiring (experiment and find what 
fruit seems to agree). 2. Three-quarters of an hour before breakfast 
drink two glasses of cold water and exercise ten minutes in room 
before open window or take a brisk walk. If this regimen were 
followed daily by children and grown people there would be less 
illness. 

DIET: Soup,— Oyster soup, meat broths, Liquid Peptonoids bouil- 
lon. 

Fish. — Raw oysters, fresh fish of all kinds broiled or boiled. 

Meats. — Game, poultry, almost any fresh meats. 

Farinaceous. — Rye bread, brown bread, graham, corn and whole 
wheat bread, hominy, mush, cereals. Educator Bran Cookies. 

Vegetables. — Salads with oil, string beans, green peas, green corn. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 385 

asparagus, potatoes, cauliflower, spinach, brussels sprouts, onions, 
boiled. 

Desserts. — .Simple and light-apple and fig puddings, plain pud- 
ding, as custards, whips, and gelatin, etc., junkets, ice cream, sherbet, 
ices, hominy, raisins, cherries, huckleberries (the blue seedless kind), 
grapes, melons, apples, oranges, pears, ripe peaches, baked apples, 
with cream, figs, stewed prunes. 

Liquid. — Unfermented grape juice, plenty of pure water, cold or 
hot; black coffee, cocoa, new cider, buttermilk, orange juice, malted 
milk. 

AVOID. — Spirituous liquors, pineapple, cheese, nuts, tea, sweets, 
milk, pastry, rich puddings, rice, tapioca, new bread, eggs, liver, 
pork, salt, smoked, potted or preserved fish or meats. 

DIET IN BIAEEHOEA 

The term diarrhoea, like dyspepsia and constipation, repre- 
sents only a symptom or result of various diseases. While 
this affection cannot be cured by a dietetic plan alone, certain 
foods are known to be constipating and in treating the under- 
lying conditions attention to diet is all-important. It con- 
sists as much in avoiding laxative articles as in using consti- 
pating articles. Thus cheese and hard-boiled eggs are highly 
constipating to most individuals, yet they could not be em- 
ployed in a diarrhoea which was due to or associated with 
gastritis. Hence foods known to be constipating must also 
be bland and easily digested. Food nearly all of which may 
be absorbed naturally antagonizes diarrhoea from any cause. 
The commonest articles used in this class are flour porridge, 
cooked white of eggs, boiled milk, toasted crackers, zwieback, 
rice, chocolate. Meat should be of the most tender and diges- 
tible nature, as sweetbreads, tongue, tenderloin of beef, etc. 
Dried beef powder may be mixed with 5 per cent, tannic acid. 
Articles which naturally contain the latter are useful if di- 
gestible. Acorn coffee is recommended by some. 

In a daily menu compiled by Ewald the following articles 
enter : Acorn coffee, soft eggs, milk, toasted bread, zwieback, 
scraped beef, breast of chicken, the most digestible kinds of 
fish, soups and broths (to the latter may be added Dry Pep- 
tonoids Soluble, nutrose and other semi-proprietory condensed 



386 DIET IN DISEASE 

protein foods). Articles used in diet list for constipation 
must be avoided. 

Massachusetts General Hospital i 

DIET. — Stale bread, dry toast, crackers, butter, rice, soft cooked 
eggs, eggs and milk, flour and milk puddings, boiled and peptonised 
milk, tea, custards, blanc-mange, wine jelly, oatmeal, oysters, gruel, 
chicken. 

AVOID. — Soups, animal broths, fresh bread, fruits, vegetables, 
fried dishes, flsh, saccharine foods, salt meats, veal, lamb and pork. 

DYSENTEKY 
Thompson 2 

During an attack of acute dysentery the patient should be 
kept absolutely quiet in bed, and should not be allowed to 
rise for the movement of the bowels, making use of a bed- 
pan instead. Throughout the active stage the diet must be 
strictly confined to easily digestible food, and in most cases it 
is wisest to give only predigested fluid articles. Peptonised 
or pancreatinized milk, or boiled milk, pressed-meat juice, 
whey, or raw egg albumin beaten with sherry and flavored 
with nutmeg are recommended. Many patients do best upon 
a diet of raw scraped beef or meat balls. 

In cases of acute dysentery, and especially in the amoebic 
form, the loss of strength, anaemia, and emaciation progress 
very rapidly, and the strength must be supported by stimula- 
tion, for which brandy is preferable to whiskey. 

During convalescence the diet must be very cautiously in- 
creased, and confined to food which is promptly and com- 
pletely digested, leaving but little residue. For this purpose 
animal food should be chiefly eaten, while fish, tender beef- 
steak, roast beef, boiled or broiled chicken, eggs, custard, 
blanc-mange, dry toast, junket, well-boiled rice, or wine jelly, 
may be given. All fruits and vegetables must be forbidden, 
and butter and cream should be taken sparingly. 

If the disease occurs in infancy, the child, if possible, 
should be fed at the breast. Otherwise all milk and water 

^ Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 
*W. Gilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 387 

given should be Pasteurized. Beef tea and mutton broth 
may be allowed in moderation, and special care should be 
observed not to overfeed. 

DIET 70K ACUTE COLITIS (DY8EHTEEY) 

Massachusetts General Hospital i 

Purge and starve one day, then: lean meat, 100 gms., 3 
times daily ; albumin water of 2 eggs, 6-8 times daily. Con- 
tinue for 4 days, then add: skimmed milk, 16 oz. ; toast (no 
butter), 3 slices with maple syrup; rice, 50 gms. daily. After 
10 days increase toast, give butter, macaroni, tapioca, cream 
cheese and Indian meal mush. 

CHEONIC DY8EHTEEY 
Thompson 2 

Chronic dysentery is often best treated by an exclusive 
milk diet of from two and a half to three quarts a day, with 
rest in bed or on the lounge. In other cases rare steak or 
roast beef or chicken and egg albumin may be allowed, with 
dry toast, zwieback, or crackers. The milk and meat diet 
may be advantageously combined. 

In Osier's opinion, if there is much ulceration of the colon, 
meat is not well borne, and it is better to keep the patient 
upon a diet which will give but little residue, such as boiled 
or peptonised milk. 

The stools must be examined every day or two to ascertain 
the presence of undigested fragments of milk curds or meats, 
oil globules, mucus, blood, etc. If improvement does not 
occur, the patient may be put upon a diet of egg albumin 
with beef juice, or some of the. preparations of beef meal or 
peptonoids, with pancreatinised milk. Return to solid diet 
must be very gradual, and may be conducted on the lines 
directed for convalescence from typhoid fever. 

^ Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 
*W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appletou A Co. 



388 



DIET IN DISEASE 



EHTEEIC BIET 
Dr. Vickery i 

Milk, strained gruels, broths and strained soups, milk whej, 
buttermilk, slips, eggs (soft cooked or raw), milk flavored occa- 
sionally with tea or coffee, barley water, albumin water, beef juice. 
Liquid Peptonoids. 



SPECIAL EHTEEIC DIET 
Cutler 2 



Skimmed Milk 
Mellins' Food 
Skimmed Milk 
Eggs and Milk 
Beef juice 

Barlev water 
Skimmed Milk 

Tea 
Chicken Broth 

Barley Water 
Buttermilk 
Skimmed Milk 
Beef Tea 
Skimmed Milk 
Albumin Water 



8 oz. 

8 " 

8 

8 

3 

3 

G 

I 
4 
3 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 



« 
it 
it 
« 
if 
(( 
(( 
it 
tt 
it 
« 



with 
with 
with 



at 7 A.M. 



" 9 
" 11 






" 1 P.M. 



t( 



" 5 



it 



« 






(t 



t 

9 

"11 " 

" 1 A.M 

" 3 " 

" 5 « 



Skimmed Milk 
Skimmed Milk 

Tea or Coffee 
Beef Tea 
Chicken broth 

Barley Water 
Mellins' Food 
Albumin Water 
Beef juice 

Barley Water 
Buttermilk 



LIQUID ENTERIC DIET 
Cutler 2 

8 oz. 



6 " with 



4 times every 24 hours. 



8 
3 
3 
8 
8 
3 
3 
8 



a 
ti 
(( 

it 



with 



with 



2 
1 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 



« 

<t 



« 
(< 
it 



<( 
(( 

(( 
« 

« 
« 



One soft boiled ^gg daily if desired or raw in milk. 



1 Dr. Vickery : 

ton." 

^Elbridge G. Cutler, M.D. : 
Hospital, Boston." 



' ' Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Bos* 
' ' Diet used at the Massachusetts General 



INTESTINAL DISEASES 389 

APPENDICITIS 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The dietetic treatment of appendici- 
tis, which has not yet passed into the surgeon's hands, should 
consist in giving only such foods as will be thoroughly ab- 
sorbed, leaving as little residue as possible to irritate the lower 
bowel and excite peristalsis. 

Until the outcome of the attack is decided it is best to put 
the patient upon a fluid diet, consisting chiefly of nutritive 
broths. Beaten eggs may be allowed, and a moderate quan- 
tity of pancreatinised milk, whey, or buttermilk. Cocoa may 
be given, and strained gruels of rice and barley. 

In recurrent cases the patient should be cautioned to eat 
moderately and avoid all coarse or hard food, such as grits, 
coarse oatmeal, tough meats, fibrous vegetables, the skin of 
fruits or potatoes — in short, everything likely to overload 
the intestine with accumulated waste. 

The operative cases should have the diet recommended 
after laparotomy. Usually the digestive organs require al- 
most absolute rest for twenty-four hours after the operation, 
and hot water may be sipped. No food at all should be given 
for fully six hours before operation. 

^W. Oilman Thompson, M.D. : "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Applbton & Co. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
DIET IN DISEASES OF THE OENITO-TJBINAKT STSTEM 

ACUTE BEIOHT'S DISEASE 

In dieting a patient suffering from acute Bright's disease, 
one fact to be kept prominently in mind is the difficulty that 
the system has in getting rid of its waste material — espe- 
cially of its nitrogenous waste. Another point is that the 
diet should be such as to assist in carrying off those inflam- 
matory products by which we know that the tubules of the 
kidneys are to a greater or less extent blocked. The amount 
of nitrogenous elements in foods must be kept down, and aid 
must be given for washing out the products of inflammation 
from the uriniferous tubules. 

Water is the best diuretic. — Hot water and hot diluent 
drinks. 

Diluted milk is the food that answers best, and skimmed 
milk has a high reputation as a diuretic. Buttermilk, whey 
and kumyss are useful. 

From two to three pints of milk, well diluted, given in the 
twenty-four hours, will in most cases be sufficient at first, 
but if the disease be protracted and tends to become chronic, 
a more liberal allowance of liquid food must be ordered, and 
broths may be added to the dietary. When milk alone is 
given it should be given in divided quantities at stated in- 
tervals — half a pint every three or four hours, diluted with 
half as much hot water or effervescing water. 

Between supplies of milk drink freely of diluent drinks. 

Diluent Drinks. Plain water, toast water, barley water, 
cream of tartar and lemon drinks, and the acid drinks are all 
useful diluents. 

Give between meals and drink slowly. 

390 



GENITO'URINARY SYSTEM 391 

CH&ONIC BBIOHT'ff DISEASE 

The kidneys are great agents in the work of excreting ni- 
trogenous waste, and if these organs become clogged with ac- 
cumulation of nitrogenous waste products they are not able 
to perform their functions. 

As soon as we have evidence suflBcient to prove that the 
kidneys are laboring and are burdened by their work, we must 
endeavor to remove the strain by regulating the diet; and one 
clear indication is to limit the supplies of nitrogenous foods. 

Large amounts of animal food and the use of alcohol must 
be stopped, and better stopped altogether. 

In many cases the effect of feeding the patient for six 
weeks, or even two or three months, upon an exclusive milk 
diet, is remarkably gratifying. The quantity of milk to be 
prescribed for an exclusive milk diet in Brighfs disease must 
depend on the age and size of the patient, as well as upon 
his ability to take exercise and use up force in muscular en- 
ergy. If the patient is invalided so as to be confined to his 
room or the house, from five to seven pints of milk daily are 
quite sufficient. If the patient loses weight on a milk diet, 
although it otherwise agrees with him, it may be well to add 
farinaceous food in the shape of rice or bread. In the worst 
cases it is desirable to give the milk at brief intervals, 
in quantities of six ounces, once an hour during the day- 
time, with an extra timiblerful at night, and on awakening 
in the morning. 

The quantity of milk necessary to support life for any 
length of time and maintain good nutrition, especially if 
the patient is exercising at all, is considerable, and he must 
take from fourteen to eighteen, or even twenty-two six-ounce 
tumblerf uls of milk in the twenty-four hours. 

It is usually impossible to commence at this rate without 
producing gastric disturbances from souring of the milk in 
the stomach, and possibly diarrhoea. The latter symptom 
is an almost certain indication that the milk is being im- 
perfectly digested, and a temporary reduction in its quantity 
is advised. 



392 DIET IN DISEASE 

As the patient improves the milk di«t may be given up, 
but it should never be too suddenly abandoned. In adopting 
any other diet it is a good rule never to let the nitrogenous 
food bear a greater proportion to the non-nitrogenous than 
one to four. 

When, after a milk diet, the change is to be made to a more 
liberal menu, the hours of taking the milk may be reduced 
in frequency, and some of the milk may be replaced by the 
more hearty food. 

DIET: Soup, — Vegetable or fish soup, broths with rice or barley. 

Fish, — Raw oysters or clams, fresh fish broiled or boiled. 

Meats, — Eat sparingly, chicken, game, fat bacon, fat ham. 

Farinaceous. — Stale bread, whole wheat bread, toast, milk toast, 
biscuits, macaroni, rice, cereals of all kinds. 

Vegetables. — Onion, cauliflower, mashed potatoes, mushrooms, let- 
tuce, watercress, spinach, celery, cabbage. 

Desserts. — Ripe raw fruits, stewed fruits, rice, tapioca, bread and 
milk puddings, junkets, cocoa. 

Liquids. — Toast water, weak tea, pure water, peptonised milk, 
malted milk, fresh buttermilk, milk with hot water equal parts, 
whey, unfermented grape juice. 

AVOID. — Fried fish, corned beef, hashes, stews, pork, veal, heavy 
bread, batter cakes, lamb, mutton, beef, gravies, beans, peas, malt 
or spirituous liquors, tobacco, coffee, ice cream, cake, pastry. 

NEPHEITIC DIET 

Xassaclmsetts General Hospital i 

Bread, soft puddings without eggs, all vegetables, except peas and 
beans, fruits of all kinds, gruels and broths. 
AVOID. — Meat, eggs, peas, beans. 

DIET POR ACUTE NEPHRITIS, URIC ACID GRAVEL 
Dr. Hewes, Massachusetts General Hospital i 

Four days. Milk, 800 c.c; 32 per cent, cream, .300 c.c; bread, 
200 gms.; butter. Feed six times a day with mixture of milk, 150 
gms. ; cream, 1 oz.; bread, % slice. 

Fifth day adopt the following: Milk, 800 cc; cream, 300 c.c; 
rice, 50 gms.; tapioca, 50 gms.; bread, 100 gms. Occasionally ice 
cream or custard. 

1 Diet used at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. Dr. 
Hewes, Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. 



OENITO'URINARY SYSTEM 393 

Vary diet from day to day in above limits. If oedema is present 
and fails to disappear change above to dry salt-free diet. At the 
start give no more liquid than above; after the cedema is gone 
water can be given as desired. 

Special Dry Salt-Free Diet, Morning. Salt-free bread, 2 slices 
(toasted if desired) ; an abundance of salt-free butter; maple syrup 
If desired. 10 A. M. Rice with small amount of cream or sugar 
(no syrup). 

Noon. Mashed potatoes with butter, no salt; salt-free bread, 2 
slices ; salt-free butter. 4 p. M. Rice, tapioca, or baked custard. 

Supper. Salt-free bread, 2 slices; salt-free butter; 2 eggs, soft 
cooked; 1 orange daily. 

Caution. Limit liquids to one pint a day, including milk and 
water. 

Salt-Free Nephritic Diets (Halpin). No. 1. Milk, 1500-2000 cc; 
white salt-free bread, 400-600 gms.; butter (salt-free), 40 gms.; eggs, 
4-6. (5-6 gms. NaCL contained.) 

No. 2. (Widal), Salt-free bread, 200 gms.; salt-free butter, 50 
gms.; salt-free beans or rice, 250 gms.; meat, 200 gms. (beef, chicken, 
or mutton) ; sugar, 40 gms. (1500 calories). (1-2 gms. NaCL con- 
tained.) 

No. 3. Potatoes, 700 gms.; salt-free bread, 200 gms.; salt-free 
butter, 50 gms.; cream cheese, 50 gms. (2000 calories.) 1-2 14 gms, 
NaCL contained.) 

No. 4. Potatoes, 1000 gms. without salt; meat, 400 gms. without 
salt; salt-free butter, SO gms.; sugar, 100 gms. (2000 calories). 
(1-2 gms. NaCL contained.) 

No. 5. Potatoes, 16 oz. (without salt) ; rice, 6 oz. (without salt) ; 
meat, 4 oz. (without salt); cream, 8 oz. ; eggs, 2 (without salt); 
sugar to tast^. 

CONVTILSIONS IH BKIOHT'S DISEASE 

Convulsions in Bright' s Disease, In the course of Bright's 
disease convulsions and unconsciousness may occur. The 
course to adopt is to encourage the action of the skin, there- 
fore place the patient in bed between warm blankets, pack 
hot water bottles around him, and send for medical assist- 
ance. — During this period the patient should live upon the 
exclusive milk diet. 



394 DIET IN DISEASE 

ALBTTKIinJEIA 
Thompson i 

Dietetic Treatment. The frequent return of functional 
albuminuria should be regarded as an indication of special 
weakness of the kidneys in the same way that frequent 
glycosuria invites suspicion of the strength of the digestive 
power of the liver, and it demands a careful regulation of 
the diet. Meat should be reduced in quantity, or temporarily 
forbidden, as well as all forms of alcoholic drinks, or other 
substances liable to produce renal irritation, and the diet 
should consist chiefly of fruits, vegetables, and milk. Care- 
ful attention must be paid to increasing the activity of the 
bowels. 

When functional albuminuria is observed in children and 
adolescents, it is not necessary, nor is it advisable in ordi- 
nary cases, to wholly exclude nitrogenous food, but it should 
be restricted, especially in regard to eating butcher^s meat 
and eggs, and the evening meal should be made very simple, 
consisting of food such as bread, crackers, rice or porridge, 
and milk. 

»W. Gilmsn Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



CHAPTER XIX 
DIET IN HISCELLANEOTJS AFFECTIONS 

NEKVOUS DISOKDEKS 

Dietetic Treatment. The first thing to be done for a per- 
son suffering from nerve exhaustion is to adopt a dietary 
and a habit of life that will rebuild the nerve cells. The 
lost energy must be gently and slowly " coaxed " back — not 
through medicines, but through proper environments, proper 
employment and proper food. There is no disease that re- 
quires so little medicine as nerve exhaustion. The dietary 
should be simple and nutritious, abounding in lettuce, pars- 
ley and the fresh green edibles in season. If there is much 
intestinal disturbance, potatoes and foods that are rich in 
starch should be discarded. Active stimulants should be en- 
tirely eschewed. Take freely of unfermented grape juice and 
malted milk. 

In functional nervous disease, such as hysteria and hy- 
pochondriasis, the appetite, muscular elasticity, and mental 
powers will often be observed to be deficient in the early part 
of the day, and to recover their tone in the evening. At this 
latter time, therefore, it is advisable to make the principal 
meal. 

FUNCTIONAL DISOKBEES OF THE LIVEE (BILIOUSNESS) 

DIET: Soups. — Light broths, vegetable soups, with crackers or a 
little toasted bread. 

Fish, — Broiled or boiled fresh white flesh fish, raw oysters. 

Meats, — Eat very sparingly of lean mutton, lamb, chicken or 
game. 

Farinaceous. — Whole wheat bread, graham bread, dry toast, crack- 
ers, cereals, tapioca, arrowroot (well cooked). 

Vegetables. — Mashed potatoes — almost all fresh vegetables (well 
cooked), plain salads of watercress, lettuce and dandelions. 

395 



396 DIET IN DISEASE 

Desserts. — Plain milk pudding of tapioca or cornstarch, junkets^ 
stewed or fresh fruits (all without sugar). 

Liquids, — Weak tea or coffee (without sugar or cream), hot water, 
pure, plain or aerated water. 

AVOID. — Articles of diet that are rich and highly seasoned, as 
curries, pies and pastry, strong soups, foods rich in fats, salmon, 
herrings, eels, mackerel, and' other fish of an oily nature, elaborate 
entries, also rich sweets and creams, cheese, dried fruits and nuts, 
malt liquors, sweet wines, such as champagne, Madeira, brown 
sherry and port. 

DIET IK SKIN DISEASES 

Nearly all affections of the skin of constitutional or reflex 
(gastro-intestinal) origin, especially acne, eczema, psoriasis, 
seborrhoea capitis, pruritus, urticaria, etc.> improve under 
dietetic measures and often recover under these alone. 
While no special plan applies to all, the elimination of sugar 
and sweets of all kinds, and substances rich in fat, as cheese, 
nuts, fried articles, etc., is essential. Pure fats like butter, 
cream, salad oil, etc., are, however, well enough in small 
amounts. Malt liquors and sweet wines disagree, largely 
because of the sugar therein; but alcohol itself is also prej- 
udicial in many cases. 

It is well to take all food in small rations, and masticate 
it thoroughly; for the prejudicial effect of food in skin dis- 
eases is often directly attributable to fermentation, favored 
by atony of the digestive tract, dilated stomach, constipa- 
tion, etc. Physical exercise is of great benefit in most of 
these cases. 

The diet and other regimen in skin diseases is much like 
that for obesity, gout and diabetes. All these metabolic dis- 
orders tend to produce skin diseases. 

DIET IK HEART DISEASE 

In disease of the heart which has passed the period of com- 
pensatory activity, so that the organ is no longer able to 
discharge its functions perfectly, it is highly important that 
the stomach be not overloaded by heavy meals, and that the 
likelihood of flatulency be minimized as much as possible by 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 397 

care in eating, for distention of the stomach from any cause 
may be quickly felt by the pressure upon the weakened heart. 
Many fatalities come about in this manner; hence meals 
should be small, repeated when necessary. The food should 
be concentrated and should contain little waste material. 
Certain articles of food prone to ferment should be excluded, 
the patient's own experience being the best guide. 

On the other hand, it is also important to avoid increasing 
the blood pressure by giving too much water, which should 
be kept within a certain daily limit conformable to the good 
results obtained. Patients should not try to live on milk 
or take any mineral water cure. Anything which produces 
thirst — like salted food, spices, etc., should be avoided, as 
should exposure to very hot weather. 

DIETETIC MANAGEMENT OP SUKQICAL CASES 

Not much special attention is paid to dietetics until a day 
or two before operation, with the exception of stomach cases. 
Whenever a patient is to be operated on for a stomach affec- 
tion, many surgeons advocate the free use of articles rich in 
vegetable acids, believing that such articles are natural anti- 
septics for the stomach and intestines. These substances, 
while technically acids, are quickly changed to alkalies in 
the body, and tend to lessen the total acidity of the latter. 
Some German surgeons even allow such patients to eat freely 
of sauerkraut, sour milk, etc. 

In other cases, the patient is placed in bed, or is in com- 
plete rest for several days, and fed on very simple and nutri- 
tious articles in moderate quantities only. The old custom 
of fattening or building patients up before operating on them 
has largely died out. If the bad general state of the patient 
is due to the condition which is to be operated on, nothing 
is gained by such attempts. In the case of a rapidly prog- 
ressing disease, every hour lost before operating may dimin- 
ish the chance for recovery, immediate or ultimate. If the 
patient is in bad condition for withstanding an operation, he 
may often be operated on safely under local anesthesia. 



398 DIET IN DISEASE 

There are many resources to-day for minimizing the dangers 
of shock and hemorrhage. As a general rule the sooner a 
patient is operated on, the better, irrespective of the urgency 
of the condition. To live for weeks and months in anticipa- 
tion of an operation is believed by its depressing effect to off- 
set alleged attempts at strengthening patients. 

When a general anesthetic is to be given the patient must 
fast beforehand to such an extent that the stomach is empty 
at the hour of anesthesia. As operations are usually per- 
formed in the forenoon, the patient should take but little 
supper and no breakfast. Should the operation be performed 
late in the day, he may have a light breakfast. 

In emergency operations, the patient having taken food 
within six hours, the stomach should first be washed out. 
This is also done as a routine procedure in all operations 
involving the stomach itself. "Water may be given at any 
time. After the operation there is such a natural tendency 
to nausea that little or no attempt should be made to feed 
the patient for some hours. Only in exceptional cases in 
which the stomach is not upset and the patient complains 
of hunger, a little tea and toast, or milk- may be given. In 
the great majority of cases no food is given until the follow- 
ing day. 

As soon as the stomach will tolerate it, however, simple 
nutritious food should be given in proper amounts. The 
tendency to-day is toward getting up early after operations, 
and against everything which tends to make the patient pas- 
sive and bedfast. The patient therefore needs more food 
than if he were to be bedridden. 

In patients who from any reason are unconscious or de- 
lirious after operation, some plan of artificial treatment is 
necessary, involving the use of the nasal, stomach or rectal 
tube. 

In any condition in which post operative vomiting will 
undo the results of operation, the diet should be extremely 
light and bland until healing has occurred, and it may be 
necessary to feed by the rectum. If the patient is unable to 



MISCELLANEOUS AFFECTIONS 399 

masticate he must be given only liquid or very soft foods. 

As a rule, vrhen post operative feeding is left wholly to 
the discretion of the nurse, a certain rule is adopted as fol- 
lows: 

No food at all for the first twenty-four hours. Water may 
be given in sips for the intolerable thirst and in addition to 
plain water, the patient may receive a swallow of carbonic 
water, cracked ice, a little hot tea or black coffee, or some 
alcoholic stimulant. Toward the end of the period a tea^ 
spoonful or two of milk diluted with lime water may be 
given. 

During the second twenty-four-hour period about one-half 
a pint of milk or some other liquid food may be given in 
small doses and this amount may be doubled on the third 
day. 

The third or fourth day usually coincides with normal 
bowel action, the patient having received laxatives on the day 
preceding. The patient as soon as this has occurred may 
go upon a semi-solid diet, so increased as to be regular at 
the end of a week or ten days. 

The diet varies notably with the patient and the kind of 
operation and its outcome and the responsibility for special 
provisions suited to individual cases falls upon the medical 
attendant and are modified from day to day under his direc- 
tions. 

DIET AFTER LAPAROTOMY, OVAEIOTOMY, ETC. 

Thompson i 

After all operations involving opening the peritoneal cav- 
ity complete rest of the stomach is necessary for at least four 
or six hours, and not infrequently for two or three days. 
Food and stimulants may be given by enemata. If fed per os 
for the first three days, not over a tablespoonful of pancrea- 
tinised milk or milk with lime water or barley water should 
be allowed, once in two or three hours. Later the quantity 

*W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



400 DIET IN DISEASE 

may be increased and the intervals diminished, and beef tea, 
beef peptonoids, and egg albumin may be added. 

In these cases the duration of anesthesia has usually been 
prolonged, and the shock is considerable. The danger from 
the occurrence of vomiting, fermentation of food, and flatu- 
lent distention of the abdomen is far worse than that of in- 
anition from abstinence. It is well also to precede the opera- 
tion by a day or two of dieting in order to lessen the bulk 
of intestinal waste matter. To this end the diet should, 
when possible, consist chiefly of lean meat and dry toast, 
vegetables and especially sweets being avoided. 

After wounds and operations affecting the stomach or in- 
testines no food at all should be given by the mouth. Noth- 
ing but a little cracked ice should be so administered, and 
all nourishment must be supplied for several days by the 
rectum. The return to mouth-feeding must be made very 
slowly and cautiously by at first giving not over one or two 
tablespoonfuls of pancreatinised milk or beef juice at a time. 

There is often much thirst following operations involving 
the peritonaeum, which is relieved more by hot fluids than by 
ice, which sometimes irritates the throat and increases the 
desire for drink. If there is danger of all fluids exciting 
emesis, a salt-water enema once in three or four hours will 
alleviate thirst. 



CHAPTER XX 

DIET.IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

MOTHEEHOOD 

DIET IN PREGNANCY 
Thompson i 

It is not customary to adopt any definite system of diet 
for pregnancy unless complications arise. If serious vomit- 
ing occurs in the early months, this should be treated in the 
manner described in following article. If albuminuria is 
discovered, meat and other nitrogenous food must be re- 
stricted, in accordance with the directions given for al- 
buminuria. If the patient becomes very anaemic, without 
albuminuria, meat> eggs, and milk should be eaten in abund- 
ance. 

The " longing ^' of pregnant women for various indigestible 
articles, such as pickles, chalk, etc., are largely mythical, and 
occurs, if at all, only as an accompaniment of a general hys- 
terical condition, not as a peculiarity of the period of preg- 
nancy. Pregnant women, however, should live simply and 
avoid foods which are likely to produce dyspepsia, heartburn, 
and colic, such as sweets, pastry, fried food, rich sauces, 
spiced dishes, and heating drinks. 

They often sufifer from constipation, in which case fruits 
and coarse cereals, such as oatmeal or wheaten grits, may be 
of service. The stomach, especially at night, should not be 
overloaded. The idea formerly prevalent that pregnant 
women need to eat food containing abundant phosphates and 
lime salts, to furnish the embryo with material for making 

iW. Gilmsn Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton A Co. 

401 



402 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

bones, as a hen eats lime to make egg shells, is no longer 
accepted. The salts in question are sufficiently contained 
in an ordinary mixed diet, such as any pregnant woman may 
eat, if plainly cooked. 

Another theory, equally ingenious and directly opposed 
to the one above mentioned, is only interesting historically, 
for efforts to aid Nature in a process which she is abundantly 
competent to regulate unaided are now regarded as futile. 
This theory was that the agonies of labor would be less severe 
if the pregnant woman lived upon a diet of fruits and meats, 
avoiding bread and fresh vegetables during gestation, on the 
ground that the lime salts which they contain would favor 
early ossification of the infant's bones, and thus make the 
labor proportionately difficult. 

It will be observed that the first theory favors the child, 
and the second the mother, but practically it has been found 
that diet has little or no influence either way, so long as it 
is digestible, nourishing and sufficient to keep the mother in 
good general condition. 

VOMITING — SEASICKNESS — YOMITINO OP PEEONANCY 

Thompson i 

The first principle in the dietetic treatment of vomiting 
from any cause is to give the stomach rest. If it has been 
overloaded with a large bulk of food, or with indigestible 
material, it is well to encourage emesis, and distressing retch- 
ing may be overcome by taking large draughts of lukewarm 
water. A quart or two will rinse out the stomach and allay 
irritation to a •marked degree. 

Well nourished patients when serious vomiting first occurs 
should usually refrain from taking food of any kind for from 
ten or twelve or even twenty-four hours. Exceptions to this 
rule are sometimes found in that type of seasickness, and 
sometimes in the vomiting of pregnancy, in which, as soon 
almost as the stomach is emptied, there is a desire to re- 
plenish the loss. 

»W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



MOTHERHOOD 403 

In any case in which the gastric irritation is persistent, 
it is necessary to give fluid food, and only in small oft-re* 
peated doses, preferably in predigested form. The food i& 
best given cold, as a rule, although some persons can relieve 
nausea by sipping very hot water. 

A teaspoon of prepared milk, or in extreme cases but a 
few drops, given with a medicine dropper once in ten or fif- 
teen minutes, may be all that the stomach will at first toler- 
ate. 

The following is a list of dietetic substances which are 
commonly prescribed for the relief of nausea and vomiting, 
or for nourishment while those conditions exist: Cracked 
ice; pancreatinised milk; milk with sodium bicarbonate (ten 
grains), and cerium oxalate (five grains) ; milk and lime 
water; milk and Vichy, soda, seltzer, or carbonic-acid water;, 
kumyss and zoolak; beef extracts and Liquid Peptonoids; 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble; raw meat pulp, scraped; strong 
black cojffee; sour lemonade or lemonade and Vichy; clam 
broth. Dry crackers, dry toast, and ginger snaps will some- 
times be retained in seasickness, or a cracker buttered and 
sprinkled with a little Cayenne pepper; brandy and soda; 
iced dry champagne; iced brandy diluted with water, soda 
water, or Apollinaris. 

Very severe and protracted cases may require lavage or 
nutrient enemata. Vomiting after abdominal surgical opera- 
tions is often controlled by lavage. 

DIET FOB THE MOTHER AFTER LABOR 
Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City i 

Immediately after labor in a normal case milk diet is given 
for the first six hours ; at the end of that time regular diet. 

In abnormal cases the diet is ordered by the physician. 

In our regular diet stewed fruits and cereals are given 
very frequently ; no veal or pork is allowed. 

In cases of severe engorgement of breasts, fluids are re- 
stricted; a dry diet is given, which consists of the regular 

^ Diet used st the Society of the Lyiog-In Hospital, New York City. 



404 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

diet and one glass of milk with each meal; no tea or coffee 
and no fluid between meals. 

In cases of eclampsia milk is always given; also a large 
quantity of water, either hot or cold, and cream of tartar 
drink. 

All nursing women have extra quantities of milk. 

DIET OP A NITBSINO MOTHER OB WET NXTRSE 

Thompson i 

The diet of the nursing mother or wet nurse must be regu- 
lated to prevent noxious substances from passing into the 
breast milk, and to keep her in good health, so that she 
does not suffer from constipation, indigestion, or anaemia. 
Her weight should not alter, and if she has menstruated once 
or twice the milk changes and may disagree. 

If milk does not make her constipated or bilious, she may 
drink it abundantly. She may take gruels and meat broths, 
and she should eat simple nourishing food, meat, eggs, veg- 
etables, and fruits. The latter, even if sour, do not react 
unfavorably upon the child, provided the mother's digestion 
is good, and they serve to keep the child's bowels active. The 
mother should forego the drinking of much tea and coffee. 
Beer and wine also should not be drunk unless they are es- 
pecially prescribed as a tonic. Wet nurses often demand 
beer, ale, or porter with their meals if they have been accus- 
tomed to it; but the popular idea that such beverages are 
especially beneficial is fallacious. Malt liquor sometimes 
causes the secretion of more milk, because more fluid is 
drunk, but the milk is no better for it. A reasonable quan- 
tity of fluids should be drunk, however, or the secretion of 
milk will suffer. The fluid may be in the form of plain or 
effervescing water, milk, soups, etc. 

The mother or wet nurse should avoid all fatigue, worry, 
and emotional excitement of any kind, which may inhibit her 
digestive functions, and should take daily outdoor exercise. 

iW. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: *• Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Appleton & Co. 



MOTHERHOOD 405 

On the whole, the best indication for the dietetic treatment 
of the wet nurse is the study of the condition of the child's 
digestion, bowels, and nutrition. A too meager diet for the 
nurse is soon evident in lack of nutrition and development 
of the infant. 

Drugs in Human Milk. Not many drugs pass unchanged 
into the milk which are likely to poison the child through 
its food, but there are some which should be carefully avoided 
on this account. Such are belladonna, opium, morphine, and 
other alkaloids; iodin and its preparations; mercury and its 
salts; salicylic acid. 

When, for any reason, it becomes necessary to discontinue 
the nursing and to stop further secretion of milk, the diet 
should at once be made as dry as possible, and a minimum 
quantity only of fluid is allowed. 



CHAPTEK XXI 
INFAirr FEEDINa 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

Infants may be fed naturally, artificially or by a combina- 
tion of both methods. When the child is at the breast of 
its own mother or another nursing woman, there is no indi- 
cation for artificial feeding as long as breast milk is plentiful 
and of good quality. If the infant no longer thrives on 
mother's milk or the mother is unable to nurse it, and there 
is no other breast milk available, bottle feeding is then indi- 
cated. It goes without saying that many infants, chiefly 
foundlings, have to be bottle fed from the start, but every 
effort should be made to secure to the child its birthright of 
mother's milk. 

The subject of breast feeding and choice of a wet nurse 
are discussed thoroughly in special works which the nurse 
is obliged to study, and hardly belong to the general 
subject of dietetics. This is also true to a large extent of 
artificial feeding, because the physician's orders are so ex- 
plicit that they may be carried out by the mother or any 
intelligent woman. However, cases may occur, as they fre- 
quently do in hospitals, where the nurse is largely respon- 
sible for the thriving of the child, and is given only general 
instructions, if any, from the practitioner. For this reason 
a brief resume of the whole subject seems desirable. 

BREAST PEEDINO 

The baby is first allowed to nurse after the mother has had 
some hours of sleep following delivery. This, however, is 
not actual feeding for the milk is not secreted as such until 
the second twenty-four hour period after birth. The first 

406 



INFANT FEEDING 407 

flow, called colostrum, differs from true milk in its compo- 
sition, providing a small amount of nourishment ready for 
absorption without digestion. The first attempt at nursing 
aids the mother by assisting the empty uterus to contract; 
while the colostrum aids the infant by stimulating the diges- 
tive tract and arousing peristalsis. In addition to the colos- 
trum the infant should receive only warm water for the first 
twenty-four hours. Should there be much delay in the secre- 
tion of mature milk it may be necessary to give the infant 
a little modified cow's milk having a very low protein content 
(V4: per cent, to i/^ per cent.). 

Under ordinary conditions the toother begins to secrete 
mature milk by the second twenty-four hour period. Up to 
the third or fourth day, this milk is mixed with colostrum 
in increasingly small amounts, but this may be disregarded 
in practice. The child must be taught to nurse at stated 
intervals, for fifteen or twenty minutes at a time, alternating 
the use of the breasts.^ 

THE WET NTTBSE 

When the mother is unable for any reason to nurse her 
child or to supply it with enough nutriment, the ideal sub- 
stitute is the milk of another nursing mother, who should be 
in perfect health and have a child of about the same age as 
the infant to be nursed. When the wet nurse is a hireling 
the moral risk is very great, for the nurse's own child if still 
living is largely sacrificed for the good of the other. It is 
also difficult to find a wet nurse of good character or educa- 
tion. It is particularly necessary to supervise her diet for 
she may be intemperate. Her own child may be illegitimate ; 
she herself may suffer from some venereal or parasitic dis- 
ease. 

COMPOSITION OF MOTHER'S MILK 

It is often advisable to collect enough milk with the breast 
pump to permit of an analysis. Milk within normal limits 
should average fat, 4 per cent.; carbohydrates (milk sugar), 

. ^ See table of feeding according to age. 



408 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

7 per cent., and protein, 1.5 per cent. Such an analysis is 
unnecessary when the infant keeps well and gains in weight. 
Maternal nursing is of such vital importance that artificial 
feeding should be looked upon as a last resort and necessary 
evil, and carefully guarded against. If the mother^s milk is 
found to be poor in non-protein elements and over-rich in 
protein, attempts should be made to remedy the disproportion 
by proper treatment for the mother. 

THE HYGIENE OF NATITBAL FEEDING 

As a nursing baby spends most of its time sleeping, dur- 
ing which state it grows and develops, there must be some 
relationship established between sleeping and feeding. When 
it wakes from normal causes, it needs nourishment. Every- 
thing possible should be done to keep it from being wakened 
unnecessarily. Hence it is best left alone, in a dark and 
quiet room, with clothing properly adjusted. 

The baby should be weighed at birth and at regular inter- 
vals. It is natural for it to lose weight for the first week 
or so, but by the end of the second week it should have re- 
turned to its birth weight, and after that should gain steadily. 
Up to the fifth month, it should gain on an average from five 
to eight ounces a week and hence should then weigh double 
its birth weight. During the next ten months it should 
again gain its own weight, so that if it weighed eight pounds 
at birth it should weigh sixteen pounds at the end of five 
months and twenty-four pounds at the end of fiiteen months. 
Teething, diarrhoea, hot summer weather, etc., tend to re- 
tard somewhat the natural gain. If it fail to gain from no 
apparent cause, the breast milk should be examined and a 
strict plan of feeding introduced. If there is too little breast 
milk, as very often happens, the mother should drink from 
one to two quarts of good milk daily, at regular intervals, 
during the night as well as the day hours. 

Some attention should be paid to the capacity of the in- 
fant's stomach, in all plans of systematic feeding, as shown 
by the following table : 



INFANT FEEDING 409 

CAPACITY OF BABY'S STOILACH 

Newly born about 1 ounce. 

At 1 month about 2i ounces. 

At 2 months about 3i ounces. 

from then on, up to the first six months, the gain is only 
fractional, so that at that time it is barely four ounces. 

One should bear in mind that the baby often craves water, 
rather than milk, and should always be offered it at intervals. 
It takes in this way one and one-half ounces or more each 
day, usually at the rate of two teaspoonfuls every four hours. 
This use of water tends to prevent overfeeding. It is a good 
plan to give the water in a nursing bottle, as in this way 
the child becomes accustomed to its use, and less diflSculty 
is experienced at weaning time, or when breast feeding has 
to be partially or wholly discontinued for any reason. 

SCHEDULE FOR NTTRSINO 

Up to two months of age the baby will normally demand 
the breast about ten times in twenty-four hours, or roughly 
speaking, every two hours, day and night. 

After the second month, the night nursings may be cut 
down to one, so that eight feedings in twenty-four hours will 
suffice, intervals from two to three hours. 

After the third month, and up to the sixth, it may be fed 
every three hours, in the daytime only. 

From the sixth to twelfth month, five feedings will suffice, 
all in the daytime, intervals from three to four hours. 

From the twelfth month to weaning time, four feedings 
suffice, about four hours apart, in the daytime only. 

The tendency of the mother^s milk to grow scanty is usually 
very marked long before the nursing period is over. As al- 
ready stated, she should use milk freely as a milk maker. 
The use of malt liquors no doubt increases the milk supply, 
but if the child has any ailment, especially of the skin, this 
will almost surely be aggravated. No drugs have any power 
to increase the flow of milk. 

When the mother^s milk is inadequate and no other breast 



410 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

milk is available, mixed feeding will be necessary. The baby 
receives just enough artificial food to make up the deficit. 
This is only what happens naturally at the weaning period, 
and is simply an anticipation of the latter. 

WEANING 

Children can be nursed for two or three years, but in the 
great majority of cases, a period not earlier than twelve or 
later than eighteen months is chosen to begin mixed feed- 
ing, so that the process may be made gradual or rapid as 
circumstances demand. 

As there is absolutely no difference between artificial feed- 
ing as a supplement to breast feeding and the same as an 
entire diet, the subject of substitute feeding is usually dis- 
cussed without special reference to the former. It must 
be remembered that breast feeding continued too long be- 
comes a confirmed habit, like a drug habit, against the in- 
fant's own welfare. It then is necessary to make it repug- 
nant by putting aloes, etc., on the mother's nipple. 

ARTIPICIAL OB BOTTLE FEEDING 

"When there is no breast milk available for the newly-born 
child, or for an infant of any age during the nursing period ; 
or when the child has some breast milk, but not enough to 
nourish it; or when it has reached the weaning period and 
must be taken off the breast either suddenly or gradually, 
the general conditions are much the same; viz., the child 
must be nourished by some artificial fluid which closely ap- 
proximates mother's milk in composition. For this purpose 
ass's milk seems especially suitable, as its composition and 
behavior in the stomach are very similar to human milk ; but 
as a rule, no better results are obtained with any kind of 
foreign milk than that of the cow, properly modified to ob- 
tain the right proportion of protein, fat, and carbohydrate. 

DIPEEBENCE BETWEEN HITMAN AND COW'S IULK 

Cow's milk has a larger protein content than human milk, 
and is richer in mineral matter. Human milk has a larger 



• INFANT FEEDING 411 

sugar content and therefore a somewhat sweeter taste. The 
fat content of the two kinds of milk is about the same, and 
this is also true of the total solids. The following table shows 
the average composition of the two kinds of milk: 

Human Cow's 

Water 87% 87% 

Total solids 13% 13% 

Fatty matter 4% 4% 

Lactose 7% 5% 

Protein (see second table) 1.5% 3.5% 

Mineral matter 0.2% 0.7% 

The fat of cow's milk differs with the breed of milch cow, 
and may be as low as 2 per cent, or 3 per cent. The fat in 
human milk is quite constant in amount, but the protein 
content may vary from 1 per cent, to 2 per cent., the 1.5 per 
cent, in the table being an average. 

Human milk, in comparison with cow's milk, is very poor 
in casein, but rich in lactalbumin and hence, when coagulated, 
does not form large curds like cow's milk. The relations 
between casein and lactalbumin in the two kinds of milk are 
shown in the following table : 

Human Cow's 

Total protein 1.80 3.50 

Casein 60 3.00 

Lactalbumin 1.20 .50 

The high protein content and large proportion of casein 
in cow's milk are advantageous to the calf, with its rapid 
rate of growth, and complex system of stomachs in which 
large curds can be completely digested; but for the more 
slowly-growing baby, whose digestion is largely intestinal, 
the proportion of protein and the character of the curd must 
be modified. The fat of mother's milk contains more olein 
and more phosphor ized fat (lecithin) than cow's milk. The 
lactose is chemically the same. Freshly drawn cow's milk is 
neutral or amphoteric in reaction to litmus. Basic elements 
predominate in both cow's and human milk, and hence they 
are both technically alkaline. The acidity of cow's milk to 



412 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

certain indicators is due to the presence of acid salts, such 
as acid calcium phosphate. 

On standing, true acid is formed by. the action of lactic 
acid bacteria upon the lactose. For this reason, cow's milk: 
frequently reacts acid to litmus. Breast milk is practically 
sterile. 

GENERAL FRINCIPI.ES OP lOLK XODIEICATIONS 

It must be constantly borne in mind that anything bufc 
mother's milk is a foreign substance in the stomach of the 
child, and even to make a mixture agreeing in chemical com- 
position with the natural food is not to insure success. The 
general principles must be applied in a special way to each, 
individual case. 

The first step in modification is the dilution of the pro- 
tein. Few new-born infants can digest pure cow's milk. 
Some require more dilution than others. Where the diges- 
tive powers are unknown, -it is wise to begin with a low 
strength and advance as rapidly as the condition of the child 
will permit. From ^4 ^o 1 per cent, protein is commonly 
recommended for the early weeks. 

The second step is the adjustment of the fat. Individual 
infants differ in their tolerance of fat as of protein. But 
inasmuch as the chemical and physical differences are not as 
great in the case of fat, it is usually not necessary to reduce 
it below 2 per cent., and it should approximate the propor- 
tion in mother's milk as rapidly as possible. 

When whole milk is diluted, if more than one volume of 
water be added, the percentage of fat is less than two, and 
for greater fat content, fat must be added in the form of 
cream. Since it is difficult to get the right percentage in 
this way, it is customary to select a milk with such a ratio 
between the protein and fat that diluting one to the desired 
strength dilutes the other also to the required degree. This 
is accomplished by taking the upper layers of milk which has 
been standing five hours or more for the cream to rise. The 
upper layers have much fat and little protein; the lower. 



INFANT FEEDING 413 

much protein and little fat, and the adjustment is readily 
made by taking a certain number of ounces for dilution. In 
the laboratory, the exact fat and protein content can be de^ 
termined by direct analysis. 

The third step in modification is the adjustment of the 
milk sugar. This can usually be given of the full strength 
found in mother's milk (7 per cent.). Since • lactose com- 
mercially prepared from cow's milk is of the same composi- 
tion as that in mother's milk, it is only necessary to know 
the percentage already present in the mixture to be fed, and 
then add suflBcient to make the desired strength. • 

Besides these three main steps in artificial feeding, we may 
have as a further consideration the selection of a diluent. 
AVater is the first choice, but to aid in the modification of 
the character of the curd, cereal waters or gruels, lime water, 
proprietary foods, etc., are sometimes prescribed. Carefully 
prepared, and regarded mainly as diluents and not as sub- 
stitutes for milk, the cereals and prepared foods are often 
useful aids. Lime water causes the mucin of the milk to 
swell, and tends to send the curd in soft condition into the 
intestines. It is also beneficial as a corrective of constipa- 
tion. 

WHAT DILUTION TO USE 

• 

The degree of dilution varies with the age of the child. 
Advance is made from low strength id higher as rapidly as 
the child is able to digest stronger food. Since it is usually 
necessary to begin with a formula weaker than mother's milk, 
it is desirable that stronger formulae be given as soon as 
practicable to compensate for this early loss. This is par- 
ticularly true as regards mineral constituents. On diluted 
cow's milk, the child gets less iron and phosphorus than in 
mother's milk, and while cow's milk is rich in calcium, it is 
doubtful whether this is as perfectly utilized as that in human 

milk. 

THE axrANTITY TO FEED 

The amount of milk taken by the breast-fed child is the 
usual guide as to quantity. (See Capacity of Baby's Stom- 



414 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ach.) Both under-feeding and over-feeding are undesirable* 
The best criteria of proper feeding are the normal weekly 
gain in weight (averaging at least four ounces) and the gen- 
eral well-being of the child. A determination of the energy 
value of the diet is desirable as a control. For the first year^ 
a child requires on the average 100 calories per kilogram of 
body weight. Seventy calories per kilogram is minimum for 
existence, and does not ordinarily provide for storage in 
growth. 

LABORATOBY HILX 

With the development of the milk laboratory, it has be- 
come possible to obtain by prescription, pure milk of any 
given composition. Such milk is necessarily expensive, and 
since slight variations in the composition of formulae are not 
serious for the ordinary healthy child, the use of laboratory 
milk is largely limited to sick babies or those of rich parents. 

HOME MODIFICATION 

For the average child, milk can be successfully modified at 
home. The chief requirements are fresh clean milk, absolute 
cleanliness in its treatment, and careful following of direc- 
tions in making up the feedings. 

Clean raw milk is preferable to any other kind. Therefore 
certified milk should be used if it can be afforded. If this 
is impossible, then the best bottled milk. If this is pasteur- 
ized, the pasteurization should be at a low temperature. 
Loose grocery milk should be avoided. When the milk cornea 
into the house, the bottles should be carefully washed, and 
set in the cold until needed. 

All apparatus used in preparing the baby's food should 
be kept by itself on a tray or table. Every vessel should be 
washed in soapsuds and then scalded in clear water before 
use. 

If there is a special nursing refrigerator, it should ba 
cleansed daily with soda-water. 



INFANT FEEDING 415 

THE BimSIHO BOTTLE 

The tube bottles should never, under any con- 
sideratiofi, be used. No matter how carefully these 
tubes and outfits are washed, small particles of 
milk will remain in the tiny crevices and cause 
indammation of the intestines. 

Select the plain, graduated cell, without neck, 
wide-mouthed, covered with breast-nipple. Such a 
bottle can be thoroughly and easily cleaned. These re- 
quirements are met by the Hygeia nursing bottle. 

When filled, the bottles are corked with non-absorbent cot- 
ton.^ They are plugged.loosely, so that the steam may es- 
cape, if the milk is pasteurized in the bottles before putting 
into the refrigerator, as is necessary when the quality of the 
milk is unknown or when refrigeration is lacking. Before 
feeding, the bottle of milk is warmed to 105° F. {40.5° C), 
80 that the milk may not chill the stomach of the infant, and 
thereby suspend digestive proceases. After the nursing, the 
bottle should be carefully rinsed with cold water, then bottle 
and nipple washed with a suds of eoap and water. Binse, 
boil in clear borax water for twenty minutes (nipples for two 
or three minutes), and set away in a porcelain dish filled with 
boric acid solution, one teaspoonf ul to a quart of water, or 
they may be emptied and filled with a plug of sterilized baked 
absorbent cotton, and will remain sterile until ready to use. 

The twenty-four-hour supply should be prepared at one 
time. For removing the milk from the bottle a dipper la 
most satisfactory, as the cream is not disturbed. A siphon 
may also be used. The milk sugar to be added should he 
dissolved in a little boiling water and strained. A bottle 
of sterile water should be at hand for diluting the milk. 
The proper number of bottles for the day's feedings (pre- 
viously sterilized) should be each filled with the prescribed 
amount, stoppered and put in the refrigerator, or if necessary, 
pasteurized and then quickly cooled. 



416 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

FOBlniLAE FOB INFANT FEEDING 

Many systems for percentage feeding of infants lAve been 
evolved. One of the simplest is the top milk method. The 
cream is allowed to rise. The upper third of the bottle con- 
taining practically all the fat, will contain approximately 10 
per cent, of fat; the upper half 7 per cent, of fat. In the 
upper third, the ratio of fat to protein is 3.1 ; in the upper 
half, 2.1; in whole milk, 1.1 (approximately). 

TOP XILX HETHOD 
L. Emmet Hol^i 

TofhMilk. To secure a milk for infant feeding which is 
fresh and at the same time one which contains an extra 
amount of fat, the practice has come largely into vogue of 
using the upper portion — a third, fourth, or fifth from milk 
purchased and delivered in bottles — after it has stood only 
a few hours. To this the term " top-milk ^^ or ^'upper- 
milk ^^ has been given. DiflEerent percentages of fat may be 
obtained by varying the amount removed and the length of 
time the milk has been allowed to stand. Top-milk and thin 
cream are practically identical in composition, although they 
may diflEer in freshness. 

If cow^s milk from a mixed herd is put into bottles soon 
after it is drawn and rapidly cooled, it will be found that 
after four hours the upper fourth will contain nearly all the 
fat that will rise as cream, and that the upper layers will have 
nearly the same percentage of fat whether the milk has stood 
for four hours, for eight hours, or over night. This has been 
demonstrated in a series of experiments made for me by 
Messrs. Upton & Jeffers, at the Walker-Gordon Farm at 
Plainsboro. After the milk had been standing under the 
conditions mentioned, fat-tests were made with the Babcock 
apparatus of the different four-ounce layers of bottled milk 
which contained originally 4 per cent, of fat. The different 

^L. Emmett Holt. M.D.: "The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood." 
Fifth Edition, Copyright, 1897, 1902, 1905, 1907, 1909. D. Appleton A Go. 



INFANT FEEDING 417 

layers were carefully removed with a siphon, with the follow- 
ing results: 

Percentage of fat in — After four After eight Over night. 

hours. hours. 

Upper 4 oz 20.50 21.25 22.00 

Second 4 oz 6.00 6.60 6.50 

Third 4 oz 1.50 1.40 1.00 

Fourth 4 oz 1.20 1.00 0.30 

Fifth 4 oz 1.00 1.00 0.20 

Each of these percentages represents the averages, each test 
having been repeated many times, 110 different tests in all 
having been made. It will be seen that after four hours 
the composition of the separate layers does not change very 
much with the period of standing. With this knowledge, it 
becomes a comparatively simple matter to secure almost any 
desired percentage of fat by simply varying the number of 
ounces removed from the upper part of the quart. 

This will of course not be the same with all milks, but 
will vary considerably according as the supply is from a good 
herd of selected cattle of mixed breeds (average 4 per cent, 
fat), a Jersey or Alderney herd (5.25 to 5.50 fat), or from 
widely scattered farms such as make up the general supply 
of any large town or city (3.25 to 3.50). It is therefore 
absolutely necessary for the physician to know with which one 
of these he is dealing, if the milk for infant feeding is to 
be modified at home from the different layers of top-milk. 
More mistakes are made just here than at any other step in 
this method of feeding. 

The tables given below are sufficiently accurate for home 
modification, provided the fat percentage of the whole milk 
is known. 

From 4 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 16 oz., of 
about one-half. 



418 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



From 525 to 5.50 per cent, {Jersey) Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 15 oz., or 
nearly one-half. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 24 oz., or 
nearly three-fourths. 

From 3.25 to 3.50 per cent. Milk 

To secure approximately a 10% fat, remove the upper 8 oz., or 
about one-fourth. 

To secure approximately a 7% fat, remove the upper 11 oz., or 
about one-third. 

How to Obtain the Formulas Required for Oenerai Use. 
If one has at command three series or groups of formulas in 
which the fat has certain definite relations to the proteids, 
he will be equipped for the great majority of cases met with 
in practice. The three groups are as follows.: 

First Series, those in which the fat is three times the pro- 
teids. 

Second Series, those in which the fat is twice the proteids. 

Third Series, those in which the fat and proteids are 
nearly equal. 









Fig. 2. Chapin's 
dipper for re- 
moving the up- 

Fig. 1. The percentage of fat in different layers per layers of 

of milk. milk 



INFANT FEEDING 419 

Once thoroughly familiar with these groups of formulas, 
variations from them to suit the needs of the particular case 
can readily be made. In general, the First and Second 
Series, in which the fat is considerably higher than the pro- 
teids, are adapted to the early months, because at this period 
the infant as a rule has more diflSculty in digesting proteids 
than in digesting fat. In the later months a higher propor- 
tion of proteids can be taken with the same percentage of fat. 
There are, however, other conditions besides age which must 
be taken into account, such as the vigor of constitution, the 
weight, and most of all, the peculiarities of the child's diges- 
tion. It is, therefore, impossible to say that at certain 
months certain proportions are desirable, and certain others 
at another period. 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Three Times the Proteids. 
This is nearly the relation which the fat and proteids bear 
to each other in a good sample of woman's milk. The easiest 
way to arrive at this would seem to be, first, to secure some 
milk or milk combination containing three times as much fat 
as proteids, and then dilute this according to the infant's age 
and digestion. After such dilution it will be necessary only 
to add the requisite amount of sugar and, when desired, 
lime water to complete the modification. This, in brief, is the 
whole process. 

The most convenient combination for dilution is one con- 
taining 10 per cent, fat and 3.3 per cent, proteids. I shall 
call it a 10 per cent, milk, and refer to it subsequently as 
the primary formula of the First Series. The 10 per cent, 
milk may be obtained by removing the upper portion (see 
Fig. 1) from a quart bottle of milk, as described (p. 417, 
418). This method will answer for persons who can obtain 
milk fresh from the cow, or for those who use bottled milk, 
provided the bottling is done at the dairy before the cream 
rises. The upper milk may be taken off with a siphon, spoon, 
or small dipper (Fig. 2) ; pouring off is not so accurate. 
For those who do not get their milk as above described, the 
additional fat can be secured by adding cream to the milk. 



420 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

To secure a combination containing 10 per cent, fat, equal 
parts of plain milk and the ordinary (16 per cent.) cream 
should be used. 

The next step is the manner and degree of dilution of the 
primary formula. It is convenient in our calculation to 
make up twenty ounces of the food at a time. For such a 
twenty-ounce mixture it is seldom necessary to use less than 
two ounces of our 10 per cent. milk. When one wishes to 
strengthen the food he gradually increases the amount of the 
10 per cent, milk, one ounce at a time, making it successively 
three ounces, four ounces, five ounces, six ounces, etc., in a 
twenty-ounce mixture, the water, of course, being reduced 
by the same ahaount. 

These mixtures may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat is always exactly 
one-half the number of ounces of the 10 per cent. mUk used 
in a twenty-ounce mixture. Thus, using three ounces will 
give 1.5 per cent, fat; four ounces, 2 per cent, fat; six 
ounces, 3 per cent, fat, etc. The proteids will continue to be 
in every instance exactly one-third the fat, as in the primary 
formula. 

The amount of milk sugar needed to bring this up to the 
percentage usually required (5.5 to 6.5) is one ounce in each 
twenty-ounce mixture. One may obtain from a druggist a 
box holding exactly one ounce of sugar, or may measure in a 
tablespoon, calculating two and one-half even tablespoonfuls 
as one ounce. This sugar is dissolved in the water used for 
diluting the milk. 

The usual proportion of limewater added is 5 per cent., or 
one ounce in a twenty-ounce mixture; this may be easily in- 
creased to any desired quantity. The foregoing directions 
may be expressed in the following table : 

First Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 3 :1. 

Primary Formula. 10 per cent, milk — or fat 10 per cent., 
sugar 4.3 per cent, proteids 3.3 per cent. Obtained (1) as 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (2) equal parts 
milk and (16 per cent.) cream. 



INFANT FEEDING 



421 






60 

"to 

'3 






fl) ^*^ ^ ^ ^ • • 



0) 

o 



eo 




^ 




5S 




"Si 


0)*^ 


^ 


a 
to 




^ S 


5J 


^3 *^ 

88 


o 


U ^ 


1 


V 


5s^ 


Ph -«-> 


■*a 


.cU 



II 

a 

o 



O 



;S ;t 9 9 9 



S888S 

• • • • a 

to o o o >o 



9 « 9 9 9 

10 O to p i3o 

^ CNCSC^fO 
3 9 9 9 ;s 
II II II II II 

%s «t « ;s ;3 

3 « 9 «s $t 

;> » ;s 9 ;s 

t^ N t4 N N 

o o o o o 

CO ^to >0 r^ 
9 9 ;s ;s 9 



o o . 

^^ g" « » » a 

: : o 

tj fe c«'» »* ^ « « 

S ^ •« a « 3 5f 









§s 


• •••••• 


8 

• 




^.o 


O O ^^ ^^ «-H ^-H ^-H 


cs 




V w 
















s 


9 » 9 » 9 ;s « 


« 




o 








. u 






A 


■S ^ 






s 


s^^ 






1: 
;3 


^u^ 


lOOOOOQQ 

t^ootoiooo 

• •••••• 


8 

• 


■«•» 


<UiO 


too O O ^Ot^t^ 


t^ 


.§ 


^u 






i^ 




n 3 3 3 9 ;3 3 


» 


cb 






a 




• •••••• 


8 

• 


o 

1 




i-H ^-H CS CS CS fO ^O 


3 


i. 


P^ rt 


3 3 a » 3 ;s 9 


"Si 


- 






g 

^ 


II 


II II II II II II II 


II 




a 


;t a 3 3 a s 9 


» 


fe 


^ 


9 9 ;s 3 « ;> « 


« 


si 








S 


O 

• 


9 9 3 ;s a 3 «s 


;s 


•«* 


N 








o 


3 9 3 ;« 9 ;s ;s 


9 


^ ■ 

to 

— "fc 


^0 


Tj< to vO t^ 00 o\ O 


cs 


S 




^-t 


»-H 


« 








;s 


^ 






O^ 


+3 


9 3 3 $s 9 ;s 9 


9 


«3i 




•-% 




g 


• • 




• 


•^ 


M 64 


• 

0« « 9 9 3 ;t «t 


. N : 




o o 


S°8 


c:b 


• • 


3 




^J^ 


• • 


O 


• • O 


§ 






•S?"^ 




Co -4^ 


to 

• 


S^^J 


^** 

^ 


W rt of^ « « 3 « « « 




>^ 


J4 Si 
3 1 


^9 9 9 9 %s ;s 9 


u, O ^ 


•^ 




^ 


S3&: 


«o 


^■" »^ 


■^ 


^■" » "^ 


.s 










• 

h- 1 







Making more than a twenty-ounce mixture will be found 
very simple if we calculate for twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five 
ounces, etc. Thus for twenty-five ounces we add one-fourth 



422 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

more of each ingredient ; for thirty ounces one-half more, etc. 
For twenty-five ounces of eleven, therefore, the exact formula 
would be : 10 per cent, milk, three and three-quarter ounces ; 
milk sugar, one and one-quarter ounces; limewater, one and 
one-quarter ounces ; water q. s. to make twenty-five ounces — 
i. e., twenty ounces.^ 

Formulas in Which the Fat is Twice the Proteids. Here 
we first obtain a combination, or primary formula, in which 
the fat and proteids stand in the relation of two to one, and 
then dilute tiiis, adding milk sugar and limewater to complete 
the modification. 

The primary formula most conveniently obtained for this 
purpose is one containing 7 per cent, fat and 3.5 per cent, 
proteids, or a 7 per cent. milk. This we may get by removing 
the upper portion from a quart bottle of milk, as described on 
page 418. Or in case milk and cream are used, instead of 
this upper milk, it will be necessary to add one part ordinary 
(16 per cent.) cream to three parts milk. The dilution is 
accomplished in the same general way as with the First 
Series. 

These formulas may readily be translated into percentages 
by remembering that the percentage of fat in any formula is 
exactly seven-twentieths, or about one-third, the number of 
ounces of the 7 per cent, milk in a twenty-ounce mixture. 
Thus three ounces in the mixture will give about 1 per cent, 
fat; five ounces will give 1.6 per cent.; nine ounces about 3 
per cent., etc. In the following table these directions are 
expressed: 

Second Series of Formulas. Fattoproteids,2 :1. (Seep. 421). 

Primary Formula. 7 per cent, milk — or fat 7 per cent., 
sugar 4.40 per cent., proteids 3.50 per cent. Obtained (1) a3 
upper portion of bottled milk (p. 418), or (2) by using three 
parts milk and one part (16 per cent.) cream. 

With these, as with the First Series, if more than twenty 

1 For method of calcnlatine any number of ou..ces of any formula derived 
from 10 per cent, milk, see footnote on page 428. 



INFANT FEEDING 423 

ounces are required, we may make twenty-five, thirty, or forty 
ounces by using of each ingredient one-quarter more, one-half 
more, or twice as much.^ 

Formulas in Which the Fat and Proteids are Nearly Equal, 
In general formulas are more often used for healthy infants 
during the later months; but there are many conditions of 
disturbed digestion in which formulas having this relation of 
fat and proteids are desirable during the early months. This 
series of formulas is obtained by using as a starting-point 
plain milk and variously diluting it. The exact percentages 
of fat and proteids obtained with the diflferent dilutions of 
milk, and the amount of sugar necessary to bring this up to 
the desired quantity, are shown in the table below. The sugar 
in the higher formulas is reduced. for the reason that with 
them the child will probably be taking a considerable part of 
his carbohydrates in the form of starch. 

Third Series of Formulas. Fat to proteids, 8:7. (See p. 

424.) 
Primary Formula. Whole milk: Fat 4 per cent., sugar 

4.5 per cent., proteids 3.5 per cent. (When using Jersey or 

Alderney milk add one-fourth water.) 

^One may readily calculate any formula of any number of ounces which 
may be desired in either the first or the second series in the following way: 

There is wanted, for example, 85 ounces of a mixture containing 8 per 
cent fat, 6 per cent sugar, 1.50 per cent proteids. In this combination the 
fat is twice the proteids. It will therefore be derived from 7 per cent. milk. 

85 (No. ounces needed) X 8 (percentage fat desired) » 105 (parts of fat 
required). 105 -r- 7 (parts of fat in milk used) » 16 (No. ounces of 7 per 
cent, milk needed). . , , . , - « 

The amount of sugar required is found as foUows: 

7 per cent, milk has 4.40 per cent, sugar. 

15 X 4.40 p= 66 (parts of sugar in the milk used in the formula). 

66 ~ 85 » 1.88 (percentage of sugar in the formula of 85 ounces). 

There is needed, therefore, an addition of about 4 per cent, of sugar to 
bring it to the desired percentage. 

4 per cent, of 85 « 1.40 (No. ounces sugar to be added). 



434 



DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



«0 

•t-a 

I 

O 
I 



n, CO 



8S1JC 2 



9 ;S :s 



ent. 
, pro 




fe^- 


SS8 

• • t 


jpsO 


OOc^ 


f^u 




a 




^ 


9 «S S 


:3 




• to 




•a - 




do 




w."^ 


'-•'-•CS 


Q) ^ 




^^ 


5s a « 


II 


11 II II 



o 

. 



8 






CNCS 






II II 




H © to 
Co ■*-> • 

Med cr«« 

w 7 tH 

3 S rt* » 






O 
W 



^ 
•^ 















• • • m • 



200000000 

u ::::::: : 

Tr4 • • • _* _• • • _• 

fiooodddddd 
3^^ »o lo »o »o »o lo »o 

w ::::::: : 
15SS2gS8S8 

II II II II il II II II 

CO 

S« 9 « 9 Ih 

*ia a a a ^ 

% & 

(^a a a a a a 3 



^a a « a V a « 

(0 

tj« 9 a a a « a 

,-1 ^-< WH iM 

^a 9 a a a a a 



hH HH h4 ^ ^ HH (-4 j-H 
»-» hH J^ '^ ^ t-1 H 



INFANT FEEDING 






|,SSSSSSSSS5!£23K3CSSSffi.^KS5!!:2RSSSS 



1 3„„^„S^S^^^^„^^^^^^S^^^«S_*^ 



i-?o^H^§^^-«HS^Hs«-,-i^oS'^^ 



i s2^oS^S!»^"-.^^=-^*^o-«^«H^^ 



,. ^S^oS^oS^^^. < 



I"" 



3:a: s» :sr3:a: »s xsasssss 



, xs:arsss3Sif»xsf». asr:*:^ 



3; srjr:sr s» i«?» . irs^sssrs^ 



RSHSSKSKR8Sg8SKS2SSS8SS8S8. 



g SSSSSSS^SS88SSSS8SSSSSSSSS8SSS! 



^ ^S8S8SSS3SSSS88SSiSSiS888S88SS88 



2S2S=2£SSS5SsaSSaS 



426 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

For 25-ounce mixtures multiply the amount of each ingredient by 1^4 

« QQ it « (( (C (( <( « it 11/ 

« gR « tt (C (C (( u t( ts ifty 

c< ^Q tt ft tt (C tt ti (f a o 

M AR (f ti ft (S tt It (t tt 21/ 

* Combination impossible with strength of cream indicated. 

Table for Estimation of Fat Percentages in Cream 

To determine the fat percentage of the cream: 
One quart of whole milk> of 4% fat, will yield on an average, ap- 
proximately: 

Cream 10% fat in upper 11 ounces after standing 8 hours or more. 
it 12^ '* ** '' 8 '' *' " 8 ** " " 

it 16% " " ** 6 '' ** ** 8 ** ** ** 

ti 9QOf it « « A (t « « g t< *< « 

Fat-free milk is the lowest 8 ounces after standing 8 or more hours. 

A sugar measure is approximately one level tablespoonful. One 
measure to a twenty-ounce mixture gives 2 per cent, of sugar, from 
which fact one may easily increase or decrease the sugar percentage 
in any of the above formulae. 



INFANT FEEDING 



427 



TABLE n 
Theoretical Bails for Peedlng a Healthy Infant 



I 





• 




Proteids if 


i 


i 


1 


split. 


Whey 
Proteids. 


« 



Amount 

at each 

feeding iA 



OS. 



C.C. 



if 






Prema- 1.00 4.00 0.25 
ture 

1.50 4.50 0.25 
At 

term 2.00 5.00 0.50 
End of 

2dwk. 2.50 5.50 0.50 
End of 

3d.wk. 3.00 6.00 0.75 
End of 

4th wk. 3.50 6.50 1.00 
End of 

othwk.4.00 7.00 1.00 
End of 

8th wk. 4.00 7.00 1.25 
End of 

12thwk4.00 7.00 1.50 
End of 

4 mo. 4.00 7.00 1.50 
End of 

5mo. 4.00 7.00 1.75 
End of 

6 mo. 4.00 7.00 2.00 
End of 

8 mo. 4.00 7.00 2.50 
End of 

9mo. 4.00 7.00 3.00 
End of 

lOmo. 4.00 6.00 3.00 
End of 

11 mo. 4.00 5.00 3.00 
End of 
12mo. 4.00 4.75 3.50 



0.25 
0.50 
0.50 
0.50 
0.75 
0.75 
0.90 
0.90 
0.90 
0.75 



0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.50 
0.60 
0.75 
1.00 
1.25 



yi-H 3.75- 
22.50 



1-1^ 24-18 



1 

2 

'2H 

3 

3 

3H 
4 

SH 

6 

7 

8 

8 

10 

13 



30 

60 

75 

90 

90 

105 

120 

135 

165 

180 

210 

240 

240 

300 

300 



2 
2 
2 
2 

2H 

2H 

2H 

2H 

3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 



10 
10 
9 
8 
8 
7 
7 
7 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
S 
5 



Note.— The data ^v- 
en in this table are sim- 

J>ly a guide to the rule 
or feeding of the aver- 
age healthy baby.They 
are only approximate, 
and not intended to be 
followed in cases of 
difficult feeding, with- 
out due consideration 
to ^ the individual re- 
quirements. 



428 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

TABLE in 

- Xethod of Calculating Whey Mixtnrei from tlie Card 

The percentages of fats, proteids, and lime-water are calculated by 
the card. Three-fourths (Ji) of the proteid in the formula chosen 
will be caseinogen, and one-fourth (Ji) whey proteids, that is, 
Formulae calling for 0.25 proteid give approximately 0.20 caseinogen. 

« U U Q 50 U U U Q4Q U 

u u tt 0.75 « « « 0.50 « 

tt u u 100 « « « 0.75 " 

u u u 125 « « « 1.00 « 

a « « 1.50 ** « « 1.20 « 

To calculate the additional amount of whey needed to make the de- 
sired whey-proteid percentage, 
Let W— number of ounces of whey needed. 
" Y= percentage of whey proteid desired. 
** P= proteid percentage in the card formula. 
" Q = total nimiber of ounces of mixture. 



Then (I) W=Q [y~-] . 



The maximum in the percentage of whey proteids in any formula is 
obtained when all the watery diluent is replaced by whey. 
To calculate the sugar required beyond that contributed by the 
cream, milk, and whey. 
Let S= percentage of sugar desired. 
" L= number of measures, or level tablespoonfuls, of sugar to be 

added. 
" Z = sugar percentage as given in last column of feeding card. 
Then (2) L ,Q(S-Z)-5W 

Example: ^l Fat 4.00, sugar 7.00, whey proteid 0.90, caseinogen 0.75, 

lime-water 5.00. Amount, 20 oz. 
Solution: Formula 23 gives 0.75 caseinogen. Use 16% cream. 

Cream = 5 ounces. 

Fat-free milk = 1 « 

0.90- ^OO 



Whey = 20 



= 13 



4 

Lime-water = 1 " 

Tv/r-11 20(7— 1.42 )— 5X13 ...,.iyv 

Milk sugar = — ^^ j^r^ =1.16 (1^^) measures. 



INFANT FEEDING 



429 



TABLE lY 
Caloric Value of Fommlae Oiven on Card 



No. 






No. 






No. 






1. 


334 calories. 


11. 


555 calories. 


21. 


642 calories. 


2. 


344 


u 


12. 


566 


u 


22. 


648 


u 


3. 


401 


u 


13. 


576 


u 


23. 


690 


u 


4. 


411 


a 


14. 


606 


u 


24. 


710 


u 


5. 


421 


u 


15. 


626 


u 


25. 


720 


u 


6. 


452 


a 


16. 


591 


u 


26. 


741 


u 


7. 


458 


u 


17. 


601 


u 


27. 


762 


u 


8. 


488 


a 


18. 


631 


u 


28. 


782 


a 


9. 


520 


u 


19. 


642 


a 


29. 


741 


u 


10. 


545 


u 


20. 


653 


a 


30. 


720 


u 



To Estimate the Caloric Value of Food Taken. 

Example : An infant takes 6 feedings of 210 c.c each of Formula 
25, the caloric value of which is 720. The caloric value of the food 
ingested is, then, 

-tt™ X 720 = 906.2 calories. 



To Estimate Weight Development of an Infant. 

To estimate the weight development of any infant, calculate as fol- 
lows: — 

Weight of an infant 

Weight index = 

Weight of average infant of same age 
Example: An infant of 18 weeks weighs 12 lbs. 

Its weight index =i%4= .85. Its weight development = .85X100= 
85 per cent. 



430 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 



TABLE V 

Methods of Calculating approximately the Percentage Composition 
of a Food from Known Amounts of Ingredients used 

Let Cb number of ounces of cream used. 
** Mb number of ounces of fat-free milk used. 
** Lb number of measures of milk sugar (or level tablespoonfuls). 
" Qb total quantity of mixture in ounces. 

«,t- /«\T» ^ J. CXfat percentage of cream 
Then (1) Fat percentage — — — ^ — ^ 

(2 ) Proteid percentage b -^ — '^ 



(3) Sugar percentage 



Q 

4.75{C+M)+40L. 



Q 

If whole milk is used in place of fat-free milk, add to the quotient in 
(1) the amount of fat contributed by the whole milk, M^ standing for 
number of ounces used; i. e., 

(4) Fat percentage in milkB — — — * 

Example: A 20-ounce mixture consists of 7 ounces of 10 per cent, 
cream, 2 ounces of fat-free milk, 1 ounce of lime-water, 10 ounces of 
boiled water, 2}^ measures of sugar. 

7X10 
Solution: Fat percentage b — —- — =3.50%. 

Sugar « -i:M±|)+«><2M.6.63%. 

The fat percentage of cream must be calculated by reference to the 
cream table page 426. 



INFANT FEEDING 431 

POBinTLAE FOB PREPARING INFANT FOOD FROX PXTRE STER- 
ILIZED SUGAR OF WCLK 

Fresh, Pure Milk, 1 ounce. 

(about 2 tablespoonfuls) 
Fresh Cream, 1% ounces. 

(about 3 tablespoonfuls) 
Patch's Sugar of Milk, 3)4 drachms. 

(4 even teaspoonfuls) 
Bicarbonate of Sodium, 1 grain. 

(or use fresh limewater, 2 teaspoonfuls) 
Water, . 5 ounces. 

(ly* gills) 

Mix enough for one day's use, and sterilize. Be sure feeding bot- 
tles, nipples, etc., are kept perfectly clean. 

SCHEXE FOR FEEDING BARIES 
Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City i 

First Day. — Give from nursing bottles 30 C.C. (1 ounce) of 6 per 

cent, sugar water every 3 hours, from 6:45 p.m. to 9:45 p. M., 

inclusive, and if necessary one bottle at 3:45 A. m. 
Second Day. — 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to IV^ ounce) of Formula No I 

in nursing bottle, every 2 hours from 6:45 A. m. to 10:45 P. M., 

and 3:45 A. M. — ten feedings. 
Third Day. — Same as second day. 
Fourth Day. — If there is milk in mother's breast, nurse every 2 

hours as on second day. If there is no milk in mother's 

breast, 30 to 45 C.C. (1 ounce to 1^^ ounce) of Formula No. 

II every 2 hours, as on second day. 
Fifth and 8ixth Day. — For breast fed babies ten feedings as in second 

day. For bottle fed babies same as fourth day. 
Seventh to Fourteenth Days. — For breast fed babies ten feedings. 

For bottle fed babies 30 to 75 C.C. (1 ounce to 2^ ounces) of 

Formula No. Ill for ten feedings. 

Formnlse 

Sugar Solution 6 per cent.: 

Take 30 grams (1 ounce) sugar of milk and dissolve in 500 C.C. 
(1 pint) boiled water. 

FOBMUIA No. I 

Fat, 0.5 per cent.; sugar, 6 per cent.; proteid, 0.5 per cent.: 
Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7. parts. 

^Diet used at the Society of the Lying-in Hospital, New York City. 



432 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Plain milk 1 part, 60 C.C. (2 ounces) lime water for every 500 
C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture. 

FOBMULA No. II 

Fatf 1 per cent.; sugar, C per cent.; proteid, 0.5 per cent.: 
Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts; 12 per cent, cream y^ 

part; milk V2 part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 600 C.C. (1 pint) of food 

mixture. 

Formula No. Ill 

Fatf 1.5 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.5 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 7 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 
part. 60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of 
food mixture. 

Formula No. IV 

Fat, 2 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.6 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 5 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 

part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 

mixture. 

Formula No. V 

Fat, 2.5 per cent.; sugar 6 per cent.; proteid 0.8 per cent.: 

Take 6 per cent, sugar solution, 4 parts; 12 per cent, cream 1 

part. 

60 C.C. (2 ounces) limewater for every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food 

mixture. 

Notes 

1. For every 500 C.C. (1 pint) of food mixture add 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) of lime water. 

2. 12 per cent, cream is the top fifth of a bottle of milk after stand- 
ing about 5 hours. 

3. It is the top 200 C.C. (7 ounces) of 1^000 C.C. (I quart) of 
milk after standing about 5 hours. 

4. If the milk is of rich quality the top 240 C.C. (8 ounces) can 
be taken. 

5. Up to two weeks the amount of each feeding is 30 C.C. ( I 
ounce) to 75 C.C. (2^2 ounces) according to weight, digestion and 
capacity. 

From two to five weeks the amount of each feeding is 60 C.C. (2 
ounces) to 100 C.C. (31/2 ounces). 

Number of daily feedings 10. From 6:45 a.m. to 10:45p. M 
From 10:45 P.M. to 6:45 A. M., one feeding should suffice. 



INFANT FEEDING 433 

PEPTOGENIC MILK POWDER HODIPIES COW'S MILK 

by a physiological process, makes the casein of cows' milk sol- 
uble and digestible like the proteins of mothers' milk, and 
gives a food for infants which behaves in the stomach like the 
food that Nature provides under favorable conditions. 

Directions for XTsing Peptogenic Milk Powder 

Formula No, 1 — For Infanta of First Few Weeks 

Milk, 6^^ ozs. (% cup). Cream, 1 oz. (or "top" milk, 2 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 cups). ozs.). 

Peptogenic Milk Powder, I14 
measure. 

The "bottle cap is the measure 

Place the Peptogenic Milk Powder into a clean saucepan, add the 
pure cold water, mix perfectly; add the fresh cold milk and cream; 
mix well and heat with constant stirring until "lukewarm" (95 to 
100** F.), not too hot to be agreeably borne by the mouth; keep at 
about lukewarm for 8 minutes, then bring quickly just to boiling 
point in the open saucepan, or " pasteurise " by heating to only 160- 
165° F.; pour at once into a clean bottle, cork tightly, shake thor- 
oughly and put on ice or in a very cold place. 

When a feeding is required, pour out the portion and warm to 
proper temperature for nursing; always shake the bottle well before 
and after pouring out a feeding. 

Formula No, 2 — For Infants From 1 to 6 Months 

Milk, 8 ozs. (1 cup) Cream, I-I140ZS. (3 tablespoonf uls ) . 

Water, 16 ozs. (2 cups) Peptogenic Milk Powder, 1-1^ measure. 

Heat this milk mixture to about lukewarm (95-100® F.) and keep 
at this temperature for 5 minutes, then bring quickly just to boiling 
point, or *' pasteurize " by heating to only 160-165° F. 

Formula No. 3 — For Infants From 6 Months to 1 Year 

Milk, 16 ozs. (2 cups) Cream, 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls). 

Water, 16 ozs. Peptogenic Milk Powder, 2 measures. 

Prepare this milk mixture precisely as in Formula No. 2. 



CHAPTER XXII 

TKE FEEBHra OF TOUKO chubsen 

Whether the child be fed at the breast or with the bottle, the 
period from the tenth to the fifteenth month is usually one 
of transition. For the breast-fed baby it is often more critical 
than for the artificially fed, as the former has now to become 
accustomed to cow's milk and to a different method of feeding 
at the same time, unless it has been on mixed feeding or has 
learned to take water from a bottle. By the ninth month, 
bottle-fed infants may have cereals added to the milk in the 
form of thoroughly cooked gruel. By the beginning of the 
first year, there may be added to the diet strained cereals in 
the form of jelly, stale bread, zwieback or toast, soft-cooked 
egg (especially the yolk), and thin cream. Throughout the 
growing period, every child should get at least one quart of 
milk a day. Milk supplies the elements of growth liberally 
and in readily available forms. Orange juice or prune pulp 
should be given daily. By the twentieth month, systematic 
training in chewing should begin. In the latter part of the 
second year, well-cooked, strained or finely-mashed, easily- 
digested vegetables are added to the diet, and any mild fruit, 
cooked (or fresh if in perfect condition) and free from in- 
digestible residues, may be given in moderate quantities. If 
a distaste for milk arises, the variety of other foods should 
be cut down and every effort made to lead the child back to 
it. Too much other food, especially if highly flavored, is fre- 
quently the cause of this dislike. 

Meat is undesirable for young children, and should not be 
given before the fourth year, and preferably not till the eighth 
or ninth year, as sufficient protein is obtainable from milk and 
eggs. Sweet fruits, as prunes and dates, are preferable^ to 

434 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 435 

pure sugar, as they contain valuable ash constituents and are 
less likely to destroy the taste for other proper food. 

Tea, coffee, beer, and even cocoa except occasionally and 
very weak, should be prohibited. The child should no more 
expect to eat the same food as an adult than to dress like one. 
But his diet should be limited in quality rather than quantity, 
as he requires much more in proportion than an adult on 
account of his requirements for growth and his great activity. 
Up to five years of age, about eighty calories per kilogram 
seems to be desirable. 

A well-known dispensary sends out printed instructions for 
the people of its neighborhood, prohibiting all eating between 
meals, and forbidding all pastry, coffee, tea, alcoholics and 
carbonated drinks, in the case of children of any age. 

Those under seven years of age are allowed no preserved 
meats or fish, no hot bread, griddle cake, or nuts, no corn, 
cucumbers or egg plant. 

For those under four years no stews, tomatoes, bananas, or 
any fruit in hot weather. 

Children up to the age of eighteen months are to be limited 
entirely to milk, meat broths, orange juice and cooked and 
strained cereals; with, in exceptional cases, zwieback, biscuit 
and soft-cooked eggs. 

Such education means much for the development of hardy 
mon and women. Undernutrition is not due alone to pov- 
erty; much of it comes from ignorance. 

GENERAL KITLES FOR FEEDING YOUNG CHILDREN 

ThompsoB 1 

1. Allow time for meals. 

2. See that the food is thoroughly masticated. 

3. Do not allow nibbling between meals. 

4. Do not tempt the child with the sight of rich and in- 
digestible food. 

5. Do not force the child to eat against its will, but exara- 

*W. Oilman Thompson, M.D.: "Practical Dietetics." New York. D. 
Lppleton & Oo. 



43G .DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

ine the mouth, which may be sore from erupting teeth; and 
examine the food, which may not be properly cooked or 
flavored. If good food is refused from peevishness merely, 
remove it and do not offer it again before the next time. 
6. In acute illness reduce and dilute the food at once. 

Table of Comparisons, Food Kequired by Child and Han 

A child under 2 requires 0.3 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 3 to 5 requires 0.4 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 6 to 9 requires 0.5 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

A child of 10 to 13 requires 0.6 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A girl of 14 to 16 requires 0.7 the food of a man doing mod- 
erate work. 

A boy of 14 to 16 requires 0.8 the food of a man doing moderate 
work. 

Prof. W. O. At water. 



Table showing 


Increase 


of Calories 


required for a 
Carbo- 


Growing Child 


Age. 


PROTKID. 


Fat. 


IIYDRAl-ES. 


Calories. 


years. 


grammes. 


grammes. grammes. 




ly^ 


42.5 


35.0 


100 


909.7 


2 


45.5 


36.0 


110 


972.4 


3 


50.0 


38.0 


120 


1050.4 


4 


53.0 


41.5 


135 


1156.8 


5 


56.0 


43.0 


145 


1224.0 


8 to 9 


60.0 


44.0 


150 


1270.O 


12 to 13 


72.0 


47.0 


245 


1736.8 


14 to 15 


79.0 


48.0 


270 


1877.3 



Hutchison, p. 453. Schroeder, Archiv. fiir Hygiene, iv. 39, 1886. 

DIETARIES FOR YOITNG CHILDREN 

Starr 1 

Diet from the twelfth to the eighteenth month: 

7 A. M., stale bread soaked in a breakfast cup of new milk. 
10 A. M., milk, six ounces, and soda biscuit, or a thin slice of but- 
tered bread. 

1 Louis Starr, M.D.: "Hygiene of the Nursery.'* Philadelphia. Blak- 
iston. 



TEE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 437 

2 P. M., beef tea, six ounces, bread, and a tablespoonful of rice 
and milk pudding. 

6 p. M., same as first meal. 

10 p. M., a tablespoonful of Mellins' Food in eight ounces of milk. 
In alternation, a lightly boiled egg with bread crumbs and six 

ounces of milk may be given at 7 A. M., and at 2 p. m. a mashed 
baked potato, moistened with four tablespoon fuls of beef tea, two 
tablespoonfuls of junket. 

Diet from the eighteenth to the thirtieth month: 

7 A. M., new milk, eight ounces ; the yolk of an egg lightly boiled ; 
two thin slices of bread and butter, or else milk, and two table- 
spoonfuls of well-cooked oatmeal or wheaten grits, with sugar and 
cream. 

11a. m., milk, six ounces, with a soda biscuit or bread and butter, 
2 p. M., one tablespoonful of rare mutton pounded to a paste, 
bread and butter, or mashed potatoes moistened with good dish 
gravy, a saucer of junket; or else a breakfast cupful of beef tea or 
mutton or chicken broth, a thin slice of stale bread, a saucer of rice 
and milk pudding. 

6:30 P.M., a breakfast cupful of milk with bread and butter, or 
soft milk toast. 

Diet from two and a half to three and a half years of age; children 
tcho have cut their milk teeth: 

7 A. M., one or two tumblers of milk, a saucer of thoroughly cooked 
oatmeal or wheaten grits, a slice of bread and butter. 

11 A. M. (if hungry), a tumbler of milk or a teacupful of beef tea 
with a biscuit. 

2 P. M., a slice of underdone roast beef or mutton, or a bit of roast 
chicken or turkey, minced as fine as possible, a mashed baked potato 
moistened with dish gravy, a slice of bread and butter, a saucer of 
junket or rice and milk pudding. 

7 p. M., a tumbler of milk and a slice or two of soft milk toast. 

Diet from three and a half years up: 

Breakfast, — Every day: milk, porridge and cream, bread and 
butter. 
One dish only each day: Fresh fish, eggs lightly boiled, 
poached, eggs scrambled, eggs (plain omelet), chicken hash, 
stewed kidney, stewed liver. 
Sound fruit may be allowed before and after the meal, accord- 
ing to taste, as oranges without pulp, grapes (seeds not to be 
swallowed), peaches, thoroughly ripe pears, and cantaloupes. 
Dinner. — Every day: Clear soup, meat roasted or broiled and 
cut into small pieces, bread and butter. 



438 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

Two dishes each day: Potatoes baked, potatoes mashed, 
spinach, stewed celery, cauliflower, hominy, macaroni ( plain ), 
peas, string beans (young), green corn (grated). 

Junket, rice and milk or other light puddings, and occasionally 
ice cream, may be allowed for dessert. 
Supper, — Every day: Milk, with toast or bread and butter, 
stewed fruit. 

From the third to the fifth year the child has twenty teeth, 
and often three meals a day suffice, although from the third to 
the fourth year four may be given. After three years of age 
it is not possible to lay down definite rules for the quantity 
of food allowed. In health the appetite may be taken as a 
fair guide, and the child will not eat too much if taught to 
eat very slowly, and thoroughly chew each mouthful. 

When the second set of teeth begin to replace the deciduous 
or milk teeth, which gradually decay, digestion is sometimes 
interfered with temporarily, from lack of ability to masticate 
thoroughly, and food should be subdivided before it is offered , 
to the child. 

GENERAL PKINCIPLES OF FEEDING SICK CHILDREN 

Since this work has been chiefly devoted, as the title im- 
plies, to the relationship between diet and disease, the amount 
of space given to the feeding of presumably normal children 
may occasion some wonderment. But the chief difference be- 
tween the dietetics of the infant and adult lies in the fact that 
the bottle infant and the weanling, nominally healthy, have 
to be dieted to prevent disease. This has now come to be 
realized on all sides. In classic and mediaeval times an infant 
which could not get breast milk usually perished. The wean- 
ing period was somewhat less trying, but millions of children 
must have succumbed to the ordeal of changing to solid food. 
Improvement in feeding means a direct lessening of infant 
mortality, as modern statistics testify. 

Colic and Vomiting (Regurgitation) are almost physiolog- 
ical, so common is their occurrence; they do not arise from 
any single cause, and the fact that breast-fed infants suffer 
almost as frequently as the bottle-fed, often more so, shows 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 439 

that such ailments are not entirely preventable by care in feed- 
ing. In breast-fed children, these symptoms are best con- 
trolled by lengthening the period between feedings. In bottle- 
fed children, besides lengthening the nursing interval, special 
pains should be taken in the modification of the milk. These 
symptoms may occur quite independently of diet. Chilling 
of the body surface, coughing, improper handling, a too snug 
binder, etc., may be the true cause of the trouble. Even in 
breast-fed infants under ideal conditions, the mother's milk 
may not be well-borne. It may in fact be so rich in fat and 
protein as to require dilution; which of course in the breast- 
fed may be accomplished only by giving the infant water be- 
fore or after nursing. 

Oavage. Of late years the use of the stomach sound in 
feeding sick nurslings has come into considerable vogue in 
foundling asylums and the like. This resource has a con- 
siderable range of application. Thus in premature infants 
(which do not nurse readily) ; in all infants which refuse to 
nurse ; and in infants sick from any cause, especially when the 
nerve centers, swallowing or breathing apparatus are involved, 
or when continuous vomiting is present, the use of the stom- 
ach tube may save life. Very young babies are fed much 
more readily than older ones, since they are less liable to 
fright. The tube used is a soft rubber catheter, which is 
coupled with a small funnel. The catheter is first passed 
down the gullet. In order to have plenty of leeway, it is an 
advantage to unite the catheter to a second rubber tube with 
a piece of glass tubing. The second rubber tube is then 
coupled to the funnel. If the case be one of vomiting, it is 
often necessary to wash out the stomach before the introduc- 
tion of nourishment, however given. The term lavage, used 
for washing out the stomach, must not be confounded with 
gavage, which means literally forced feeding. Complete de- 
tails will be found in works on obstetrics and obstetric nurs- 
ing. Edgar says of gavage, that the infant to be fed should 
lie on its back in the nurse's arms, its own arms held to its 
iides, while an extra assistant steadies the head. The tube 



440 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

having been passed, the modified milk or other nutriment is 
poured into the funnel, and as the latter empties itself the 
tube is pinched to prevent escape. While regurgitation may 
occur and necessitate a repetition of the act, it very often 
happens that food taken in this manner is much better re- 
tained than if taken by nursing the breast or bottle. The 
exertion required by nursing, the swallowing of air, etc., are 
avoided in gavage. To recapitulate, the conditions in which 
gavage has been found life saving, are given by Edgar in the 
following order: 

Prematurity (especially in incubator babies) ; after opera- 
tions on the nose and throat; habitual vomiting; pneumonia, 
diphtheria and scarlet fever. The jaws of the nursling can 
usually be separated to receive the gavage-tube. But if there 
is inflammation of the mouth or locking of the jaws (or if 
intubation has been required for diphtheritic cases) it may be 
necessary to resort to nasal feeding (see p. 79). 

Diarrhcea. Under this familiar term, which includes the 
mildest looseness of the bowels as well as the severest symp- 
toms of cholera and dysentery, may be included the greater 
part of the morbidity of the nursling. Death certificates of 
babies, especially in summer months, chiefly specify this cause. 
The diarrhoea makes itself felt in a variety of ways. If con- 
joined with vomiting we may term it a gastro-enteritis, and 
state that a given child died from inability to profit by its 
nourishment. But many infants succumb, not because their 
nourishment is rejected outright, but rather from the fact that 
it is not utilized. We can understand death when due to vio- 
lent vomiting and diarrhoea; but the slow death from non- 
utilization of food, such as occurs so extensively in bottle-fed 
tenement house children, still remains largely a mystery, which 
has been explained in the most diverse ways. The amount 
and character of gastro-intestinal disturbance present is not 
sufiicient, in many cases at least, to explain the total failure 
of nutrition. It is in the effort to combat this condition that 
so many methods of feeding have come into use. As in all 
stubborn and imperfectly understood conditions, with a bad 



THE FEEDING OF YOUNG CHILDREN 441 

outlook for recovery, many substances have been tested, and 
many recoveries have been recorded. If a threatening diar- 
rhoea appears, with or without vomiting, the best course to 
pursue at first seems to be fasting. Sterile water may be al- 
lowed but milk is prohibited. There is in these cases some 
special reason for forbidding plain milk (see remarks on the 
use of whey-free milk, p. 190). It is believed by some 
authorities that cow's milk or the milk of any animal is poi- 
sonous in these cases. Others would state that milk is danger- 
ous because of one or another solid ingredient, or because it 
furnishes a culture medium for germs. In any case some pre- 
digested food like panopepton, or some cereal decoction like 
rice or barley water seems better borne. It may also be ad- 
visable at this stage to use certain drugs to control vomiting. 
When the latter has ceased for twenty-four hours, normal feed- 
ing may be cautiously resumed. The treatment of these cases 
taxes the utmost resources of the physician, and the mortality 
is enormous. The nurse's duties lie rather in the direction 
of prevention; but if these cases develop, rest of the stomach 
is imperative at first and milk must not be resumed until all 
symptoms are passed. Diarrhoea, dysentery and all gastro- 
intestinal troubles in older children are dieted on the same 
principles as are the same affections in adults. 

Constipation in nurslings is a condition difficult to over- 
come entirely by diet. The familiar remedies are sugar and 
cream, an excess of either of which, over dietetic requirements, 
may loosen the bowels. A prescription of laboratory milk 
may meet this obstacle, or the corresponding home modifica- 
tion. Fruit juices, oatmeal gruel, etc., are sometimes em- 
ployed. 

Marasmus and Rickets are two conditions generally in- 
cluded under diseases amenable to diet. Infantile Scurvy 
should be named in the same connection. There is no special 
regimen, however, for such affections. A full normal diet 
cannot be improved on. 



CHAPTER XXIII 
TEE ADOLESCEVT — THE 8EDEBTAB7 — THE AjG^SD 

DIET FOB THE ADOLESCENT 

The growing youth needs extra protein food for the build- 
ing of protoplasm and a suflBciency of salts for the rapidly- 
forming tissues; earthy salts for bones^ iron for blood, phos- 
phorus for nervous tissue and its general influence on growth, 
obtained from the average liberal mixed diet with milk, eggs, 
fresh fruit and green vegetables, so that no special plan of 
feeding is required. If the adolescent lead a very active ex- 
istence, equivalent to hard labor in an adult, he will naturally 
require the same amount of food with necessary reduction for 
weight, and some allowance for extra protein. Many ado- 
lescents, however, are very sluggish and lead inactive- lives, and 
need encouragement to activity, with food in proportion to 
its degree. Again the appetite is not always a safe guide, 
especially for girls; for the period of adolescence coincides 
with the development of " hysterical '' tendencies which may 
be manifested by excessive or diminished craving for food 
without any reference to the actual physical demands. An 
active adolescent may have but little appetite while a slug- 
gish one may be a glutton, or may continually drink water. 
The perverted cravings for substances of no nutritive value 
and without appetizing quality, which accompany this period, 
are well known. It is therefore necessary that the diet of this 
period be as carefully supervised as that for the little child. 
The food must conform to the subject's physical requirements, 
and must be administered with discretion, for a large percent- 
age of food aversions are acquired at this time, and it is es- 
sential to the well-being of the individual, and the comfort 
of others, that his eating habits be normal. 

442 



THE SEDENTARY 443 

DIET P0& TH£ SEDENTA&Y 

No exact rules can be laid down for the dietetics of the 
sedentary. An individual may lead a technically sedentary 
life, and yet use up a great amount of energy, only standing 
and walking muscles being in disuse just as in a person whosie 
occupation requires standing and walking, little use may be 
made of arm, shoulder and trunk muscles. A better distinc- 
tion is between out-door and in-door life, or quiet and active 
existence. True sedentary persons lead both a quiescent and 
an in-door existence, chiefly in the sitting posture. The less 
the exertion, the less the requirement for food. Excess of 
food over actual demands is usually manifested by the putting 
on of flesh or by the development of indigestion or metabolic 
disturbances. In theory there should be no such thing as a 
permissible diet for the sedentary, because no one should 
allow himself to lead a purely quiescent existence. It is pos- 
sible to compress a good deal of active exercise in a couple 
of hours of the twenty-four, so that the sedentary person passes 
virtually into the next class above, corresponding to light 
active labor extending through a number of hours. 

While individual estimates vary, it is probable that 1600- 
2000 calories suffice for the average individual on the usual 
basis of 145 pounds weight with the usual reduction for sex. 
As the sedentary person finds it difficult to digest heavy arti- 
cles of food, the food should be easily digestible. Fruit and 
succulent vegetables (salads) are usually well borne by seden- 
tary people, as they induce daily evacuations of the bowels, 
and are not fattening. They are the reverse of condensed 
and highly nutritious foods. 

DIET POB THE AGED 

As there is a radical distinction between a person merely 
old in years and one who is actually senile, no dietary can 
be devised to suit the case of all those of advanced years. A 
man is technically old at sixty. In theory he should require 
less protein in proportion to carbohydrates than a younger 
man. Many people of both sexes, however, preserve their 



444 DIET IN SPECIAL CONDITIONS 

working capacity far into the sixties and even into the seven- 
ties. Many people can put on flesh up to the age of sixty, 
and it is very important that they do not do so. Their regi- 
men should be practically that of the corpulent. After the 
age of sixty the weight may remain at an equilibrium for some 
years, or with the advent of senile change, the flesh may be- 
gin to disappear, this loss being physiological. At this period 
less depends on the selection of food than on the quantity 
and thoroughness of mastication. An active, healthy man 
can preserve his condition by cutting down the amount of 
food greatly, and chewing it thoroughly. The demand for 
protein will very likely be satisfied with a small quantity. 
The total fuel requirement will depend upon whether the in- 
dividual exercises or leads a sedentary life. Sedentary elderly 
people can subsist on very little food, and do not differ much, 
in this respect from middle-aged sedentary people. 

A senile person is practically an invalid, and his dietetic 
demands do not differ greatly from those of other invalids 
(aside from the convalescent). If the teeth are more or less 
useless, and mastication cannot be effected by the gums, the 
individual becomes a confirmed dyspeptic. The problem of 
starch digestion becomes a serious one. Milk can be used 
largely. 

In theory sugars could partially replace starches. An ex- 
cellent food under the circumstances is toasted bread, which 
may be dipped in coffee to soften it. In toast the starch be- 
comes changed to dextrin, which is but one step removed from 
sugar. Well-cooked cereals, vegetables (potatoes, greens, etc.) 
and fruits may be used in small quantities in the expectation 
that they will be digested by the pancreatic juice. 

Special Regimen : As already suggested, this cannot differ 
in kind from that of the confined invalid or dyspeptic. 

DIET 1 : Soup, — Nutritious soups, such as chicken or fish pur^, 
beef tea, mutton or chicken broth. Purees of all kinds. 

Fish. — White fish as sole, whiting, smelts, flounders, etc. (best 
when boiled). 

^Food suitable for the Aged According to Yeo. 



TEE AGED 445 

Eggs, — Egg lightly cooked^ or beaten up with milk, etc. 

Meats. — Young and tender chicken and game. Other tender 
meats. Potted chicken, game and other potted meats. Sweetbreads, 
bacon grilled. 

Farinaceous, — Bread and butter (bread at least a day old) to be 
soaked in tea or milk or water. Bread and milk, porridge and oat- 
meal gruel. Puddings of ground rice, tapioca, arrowroot, sago, maca- 
roni. Prepared foods consisting of predigested starches. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes, carrots, spinach and other succulent veg- 
etables, stewed celery, boiled onions. 

Desserts. — Fruit jellies, stewed or baked fruit. Pulp of perfectly 
ripe raw fruit in small quantity, farinaceous puddings. 

Liquids. — Milk in all forms, and with the addition of warm Vichy 
or warm water, fruit juice. 



RUMFORD 

**THE WHOLESOME" 

Baking Powder 

of the HIGH GRADE Powders 



»^^» ^ »^ 



Pwre and Wholesofne. Rumford is different from and 
superior to all other powders, it being made of the genuine 
Professor Horsford*s phosphate, thus supplying the food with 
an element, the strength-giving phosphates, absolutely neces- 
sary to health. Fine wheat flour is of little value as a strength- 
ening food because it is deprived of its phosphates in bolting. 
Rumford Baking Powder supplies these phosphates. 

Terfect Baking Quality. Its action in the dough is 
thorough, making cake, biscuit, muffins, etc., of the finest 
texture, which will retain their fresh condition longer than 
when made with ordinary baking powder or cream tartar. 

No ^^Baking Powder ^^ taste. Rumford contains no 
alum or cream tartar and gives no bitter or ** baking powder '' 
taste to the food. Biscuit, etc., made with it retain the 
natural flavor of the grain and it will not impair the most 
delicate flavoring used in cake, etc. 

Every Can Warranted. Rumford will retain its 
strength indefinitely and we guarantee every can to give 
satisfaction or money refunded. 

Beasonahle Price. Recent improvements enable us 
to sell Rumford at a reasonable price, much less than the 
ordinary high-priced powders. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Main Offices, Providence, R. I. 



446 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



A, 

Acid Beverages. . 
Acid Phosphate 
Acid Phosphate Whey 
Apple Water . . . 
Apollinaris Lemonade . 
Bran Lemonade 
Cream of Tartar Drink 
Currant Water . . 
Effervescent Lemonade 
Egg Lemonade . 
Fruit Lemonade 
Fruit Punch . . . 
Fruitade . . 
Grape Juice 

Lemonade 

Lithia 

Nectar . 

Water 
Irish Moss Lemonade . 
Jelly and Ice . . . 
Lemonade .... 
Lemon Whey . 
Malted Milk Currant Jelly 
Malted Milk with Wine 
Orangeade .... 
Orangeade No. II . . 
Pineapple Juice . 
Pineapple Lemonade . 
JRhubarb Water 
Soda or Apollinaris Lem 

onade 

Tamarind Malted Milk 
Tamarind Water . 
Tea Punch .... 
Tutti Frutti Punch . 
Wine Whey .... 
Acid Phosphate (Hors 
fobd's) .... 
Acid Phosphate 
Add Phosphate Whey 



PAGE 

110 

113 
113 
115 
111 
111 
114 
115 
111 
121 
111 
117 
112 
116 
112 
116 
116 
115 
112 
114 
111 
113 
114 
114 
112 
112 
113 
111 
115 

111 
116 
115 
116 
117 
113 

478 
113 
113 



PAGB 

Albuminous Bevebages . 118 
Albumin Water ... 122 
Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 



Milk 
Orange 
Sherry 
Water 
Beef Egg-nog . . 
Coffee Egg-nog 
Egg Broth . . . 
*' Lemonade . 
Egg-nog .... 
Egg-nog No. II 
Egg and Brandy . 
** and Rum . 
" and Wine . 
Grape Yolk 

'* Juice and Egg 
Junket Egg-nog 
Malted Milk and Egg 
Mulled Wine . 
Pineapple Egg-nog 
Stokes' Mixture 
Albuminous Jellies 
Beef Jelly . 
Calf's Foot Jelly . 
Chicken Broth Jelly 
Panopepton Jelly . 

" Jelly with Orange 
Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
" Wine Jelly 

Apples 
Apple Cuban Style 
Custard 
and Prunes 
Tapioca . . 
Water . 
Baked Apples . 
Stewed Apples 



« 






tt 



122 
123 
123 
122 
120 
120 
118 
121 
119 
119 
120 
120 
120 
121 
122 
119 
121 
122 
120 
121 
221 
222 
221 
222 
208 
209 
207 
205 

280 
288 
280 
300 
115 
279 
279 



Apricot and Prune Sauce 280 



447 



448 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Arrowroot Gruel 
Asparagus on Toast 
** Soup . . 

Boiled Asparagus . 

Creamed Asparagus 

B. 



PAGE 

. 238 
. 268 
223-224 
. 267 
. 268 



Bacon, Broiled . .151 

Curled Bacon .... 151 

Baked Custards 

Baked or Cup Custard . 288 
" Caramel Custard . 290 
Custard No. II .289 
Chocolate Custard . 289 

Malted Milk Custard . . 290 
White Custard ... 289 

Baking Powder (Rumford) 

Bananas Baked 
Banana Custard 

BARLEr 

Barley Gruel .... 238 

Gruel with Broth 238 

Gruel or Jelly . 238 

Jelly .... 244 



446 
280 
288 



« 



(( 



« 



« 



Water . 
Water (for 
fants) 
Bavarian Cream 
Beef 

Beef Broth . . . 
Egg-nog . . 
Jelly . . . 
Sandwiches 
Broiled Beef Steak 
Maltre lyHOtel Butter 






In- 



124 

125 
210 

219 
120 
222 
260 
149 
149 
Pan Broiled Beefsteak 

Cakes 149 

Roast Beef 152 

Scraped Beef . . . .217 

Beef Preparations . .212 

Beef Essence . .215 

" Juice 214 

** Juice (for Infants) 215 

Tea 215 

Tea Frozen . . .216 
Tea with Hydro- 
chloric Acid . . . .216 



« 



(t 



t( 



t( 



ft 
ft 



Dry Peptonoids Soluble 

Liquid Peptonoids 

Panopepton 

Raw Beef Sandwiches 

Scraped Beef .... 

Beet Greens 

Beverages 

Acid Beverages 

Albuminous Beverages 

Miscellaneous Beverages . 

Starchy Beverages . 
Birds (Note Poultry) 
Biscuit 

Baking Powder Biscuit . 

Bran Biscuit . . . . 
" Muffins . . . . 

Cornmeal Gems 

Gum Gluten Biscuit . 

Drop Biscuit 
Muffins . 

Pop Overs . 

White Gems 
Blanc Mange 

Chocolate Blanc 
Boiled Frosting 
Bouillon, Clam 

Clam Bouillon 
Bran Tea . 
Bran Lemonade 
Brandy and Milk . 
Bread 

Baking Powder* Biscuit . 

Boston Brown Bread . 

Bran Bread .... 
Biscuit .... 
Muffins . . . . 

Cornmeal Gems 

Entire Wheat Bread . 

Gum Gluten Biscuit 
Bread 

Drop Biscuit 
Muffins . 

Pop Overs 

White Flour Bread . . 

White Gems . . . . 

Whole Wheat or Graham 

Bread 

Bread Crumbs Buttered . 
Bread Panada .... 



Mange 



Bisque 



tt 



It 



tt 
tt 



tt 



it 
tt 



tt 



PAGE 

492 
215 
21G 
217 
217 
269 

110 
118 
127 
124 
152 

253 

253 

254 

254 

252 

253 

253 

254 

254 

295 

301 

320 

174 

175 

137 

111 

197 

247 

253 

252 

252 

253 

254 

254 

251 

252 

252 

253 

253 

254 

250 

254 

251 
246 
127 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



449 






(( 



« 
tt 
(t 



PAGE 

302 
304 
303 
304 
303 
303 
302 
302 
158 
242 
297 
242 



Bread Pudding . 

Cheese Bread Pudding 

Chocolate ** 

Gluten Brown Betty 

Jelly Bread Pudding 

Lemon 

Orange 

Plain 
Bread Sauce fob Game 
Breakitast Foods 

Boiled Rice . 

Cornmeal Mush 

Gum Gluten Breakfast 
Food .... 

Hast^ Pudding . 

Hominy .... 

Oatmeal Mush . 

Steamed Rice . 
Broths .... 

Beef Broth . . . 

Broth with Grains 

Chicken Broth . . 

Clam Broth No. I . 
" Broth No. II 

Egg Broth (Milk) 
" Broth (Hot Water) 221 
" Broth (Beef Broth) 221 

Mutton Broth . . . .219 

Veal Broth 220 

Butter Balls .... 265 
Butter Cream .... 165 
Buttermilk (Artificial) . 199 
Buttered Crumbs . . . 246 



C. 

Cake 317 

Boiled Frosting ... 320 
Cold Water Sponge Cake . 318 
Ginger Bread .... 320 
Gum Gluten Nut Cake . 319 
Hot Water Sponge Cake . 319 
Marguerite Wafers . 320 

Plain Cake 319 

Sponge Cake .318 

Carrots 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed . . .268 



242 
242 
243 
243 
298 
217 
219 
219 
220 
220 
220 
118 



PAGE 

Caudle 241 

Cauliflower 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Celebt 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Soup 224 

" (Diabetic) ... 225 

Toast ' 257 

Cereals 233 

Breakfast Food . . . " . 242 

Gruels 238 

Starchy Gruels . 244 

Charlotte, Orange . .211 

Cheese 

Cheese Bread Pudding . 304 

" Wafers .... 276 

Gluten Biscuit Crisps . .276 

Gluten Cheese Wafers . .261 

Sandwiches 25d 

Chicken 
Broiled Chicken . .156 

Chicken Broth .... 220 
Broth Jelly . . 222 
Salad .... 274 
Creamed Chicken . . 157 

Jellied " ... 157 

Roast " ... 154 

Gravy 155 

Stuffing 154 

Trussing 154 

Scalloped Chicken . .157 
To clean Chicken . .153 
Chocolate ( Walter Bak- 
er's) 477 

Chocolate Blanc Mange . 301 
Bread Pudding 303 
Custard . . 28» 
Ice Cream . . 308 
Milk Shake . 135 
Sauce for Ice 

Cream 311 

Chocolate Syrup . .13ft 

Vienna Style . 135 

Plain Chocolate .134 

" Chocolate (Ind.) . 135 

Chops 

Chop Broiled in Paper . 151 






ft 
« 
ft 

it 



t( 



450 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

150 
150 
150 
150 
136 
197 
172 
Albuminized Clam Water 123 



French Chops . 
Lamb Chops Broiled 
Mutton Chops ** 
Pan Broiled Chops 

Cinnamon Wateb . 
Milk . . 

Clams 



« 



t» 



« 



« 



tt 



it 
« 
(t 



Clam Bouillon . 

Bouillon Bisque 
Broth 

Broth No. II 
Broth on Toast 
Frapp6 
Sherbet 
Soup . 
Stew . 
Water 

Water No. II . 
Little Neck Clams 
Steamed Clams 
Cocoa ( Walter Baker's ) 
Breakfast Cocoa 

" Cocoa (Ind) 

Cocoa Junket . 
Malted Milk Cocoa . 
Codfish 

Creamed Codfish . 

" Codfish (Dia 

betic) 

Coffee 

Boiled Coffee . 

" Coffee (Ind.) . 
Cereal Coffee . 
Coffee Egg-nog . 

Ice Cream . 
Jelly .... 
Junket . 
Filtered Coffee . 

Coffee No. II 
Malted Milk Coffee . 
Perculator Coffee . 
Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
Condensed Milk (Eagle 

Brand) . 
Consomme 
Corn Soup 
CoRNMEAL Gems 
Mush 



it 
tt 



tt 



tt 



174 
175 
173 
220 
258 
315 
312 
174 
174 
173 
173 
172 
172 
477 
133 
134 
294 
134 

163 

164 

132 
132 
133 
120 
308 
207 
294 
132 
133 
133 
131 
207 

479 
228 
224 
254 
242 



tt 



tt 



tt 



PAGE 

Cornstarch Pudding . . 295 

Cornstarch Fruit Jelly . 295 

Pudding . . 295 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 296 

Pineapple Cream . . . 295 

Cbackers 

Baby Educator . . 501 

Bran Crackers .... 260 
Cheese Wafers .... 276 

Cracker Crumbs (butr 

tered) 246 

Cracker Gruel .... 239 
Cracker Panada . .126 

Pudding ... 304 
Crisped Crackers . . 229 

Educator Crackers . 260 

Gluten Cheese Wafers . 261 
Crackers . . . 260 
Biscuit Crisps . 261 
Wafers . . . .261 
Marguerite Wafers . . 320 
Toasted Crackers . . . 256 
Cranberry Jellt . . . 280 
Cranberry Sauce . . . 280 

Cream Sauce 

Cream Sauce (Fish) . . 165 

" (Macaroni). 245 

" (Noodles) . 246 
" " ( Scalloped 

Dishes) 271 

Cream Sauce (Toast) . 257 

" (Vegetables) 271 

Cream of Tartar Drink . 114 

Cream (Whipped) . . . 305 

Croutons 230 

Crumbs (Buttered) . .246 

Crust Coffee . . .126 

Cucumber Relish . .166 

Currant Water . . .115 

Custards 

Baked Custards . . . 288 
Custard Junket . . . 294 
Custard Souflfle . . . 292 
Frozen Custard . . .311 
Soft Custards .... 287 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



451 



D. 

Dandelion Gbeens 
Date Bonbons 

" Tapioca 
Desserts (Frozen) 
Ice Cream . 

Caramel Ice Cream 



(( 



Ice Cream No. II 310 



Chocolate Ice Cream 

Coflfee 

Frozen Custard 

Grape Ice Cream . 

Hot Cocoa Sauce for 

Cream 
Junket Ice Cream . 
Malted Milk Ice Cream 
Peach 



PAGE 

269 
282 
301 
306 
306 
310 



Ice 



« 



« 



« 



(( 



« 



(( 



(( 



<( 



(( 



Peptonoids 

Raspberry 

Strawberry 

Vanilla 
Ices . 

Clam Frapp6 

Fruit Ice 

Grape Frapp6 

Lemon Ice . 

Orange " 

" No. II 
" " No. Ill 

Orange Straws . 

Pineapple Ice 

Scalpicon of Fruit 
Sherbet . 

Clam Sherbet . 

Grape Ambrosia 

Grape Sherbet . 

Lemon Milk Sherbet 

** No. II 312 

Malted Milk " . . 313 

Strawberry " . . 312 

Strawberry " No. II 312 

Desserts (Hot and Cold) 286 

Bread Puddings . . 302 

Cheese Bread Pudding 
(Diabetic) .... 304 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 303 

Gluten Brown Betty . . 304 

Jelly Bread Pudding . . 303 

Lemon « *« , , 303 



308 
308 
311 
309 

311 
308 
310 
309 
311 
309 
309 
307 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 
315 
312 
312 
313 
313 
312 



PAGE 

Orange Bread Pudding . 302 
Plain " « . . 302 

Cornstarch or Blanc 

Mange 295 

Cornstarch Fruit Jelly . 295 
Cornstarch Pudding . . 295 
Gum Gluten .... 29& 
Irish Moss Blanc Mange . 297 

" " Jelly ... 297 

Malted Milk Blanc Mange 296 

Nutritious Wheat Pudding 296 

Pineapple Cream . . . 295 

Cracker Pudding . . 304 

Walnut, Biscuit Crisps . 305 

Plain Cracker Pudding . 304 

Custards 

Baked Custards 

Baked Caramel Custard 

" or Cup 

" Custard No. II 
Chocolate Custard 
Malted Milk " 
Peptonoids 
White 

Soft Custards . 
Almond Pudding 
Apple Custard . 
Banana " 
Floating Island 
Meringue 
Orange Custard 
Peach Custard . 
Soft Custard No. I 
Custard No. II 






(( 



(( 



Custard (Diabetic) . 287 



Junket 

Cocoa Junket 

Coffee " 

Custard " 

Plain " 

Junket Ice Cream 
Pudding Sauces 

Foamy Sauce . 

Fruit 

Hard 

Orange 

Whipped Cream 

Whipped Cream No. 11 
Rice Puddings . . . 



(t 



tt 



288 
290 
288 
289 
289 
290 
290 
289 
287 
288 
288 
288 
288 
287 
288 
288 
287 
287 



293 
294 
294 
294 
29a 
308 
305 
305 
306 
305 
210 
305 
306 
297 



452 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Boiled Hice .... 

Cream of Rice Pudding 

Peaches and Rice . 

Plain Rice Pudding 

Rice Meringue . 

Southern Snow Balls 

Steamed Rice . 
Tapioca Puddings . 

Apple Tapioca . 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

Date Tapioca . 

Pineapple Tapioca . 

Plain 

Raspberry " 

Tapioca Cream . 
Whips and Souffles 

Custard Souffle 

Fruit Whip 

Grape Whip 

Lemon Souffle 

Omelet Souffle 

Peach Meringue 

Strawberry Whip . 
Dressing for Poultry 

" " Salads 

Dried Fruit Soup . 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble 

Peptonoids Sandwiches 



E. 



Eggs 175 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 
Grape Juice 123 
MilJc . .122 
Orange . .123 
Sherry . . 123 
Water . .122 
Albumin Water (for In- 
fants) 122 

Baked Custard ... 288 
Baked Eggs 180 



PAGE 

297 
299 
298 
299 
299 
298 
298 
300 
300 
301 
301 
300 
300 
301 
300 
291 
292 
291 
291 
292 
292 
293 
291 
154 
272 
227 
492 
260 



it 
tt 
(( 

it 



Eggs (Diabetic) 
Baked Meat Omelet . 
Beef Egg-nog .... 
Coddled Eggs (Scrambled) 
Coffee Egg-nog .... 
Egg Broth (Milk) . . 



180 
182 
120 
183 
120 
118 



« 






It 



tl 



t( 



t( 






« 
tt 



tt 



Egg Broth (Water) 
Broth (Beef) 
Lemonade . 
Nests . 
-nog No. I . 
-nog No. II . 
Sandwiches 
Sauce . 
Sauce No. II . 
and Brandy . 
Rum . 
Wine . 
Sherry Gruel 
Filled Eggs . . . 
Golden Rod Egg . 
Grape Juice and Egg 
Grape Yolk . 
Hard Cooked Egg . 
Junket Egg-nog 
Malted Milk and Egg 
Marguerite Salad . 
Mulled Wine . 
Omelet (Bread) 

(Foamy) . 
( Meat ) 
Pineapple Egg-nog 
Poached or Dropped Egg 

Egg in Milk 
Shirred Egg 

Eggs No. II 
Soft Cooked Egg . 
" " " No. 

" Custard 
Steamed Eggs . 
Stokes' Mixture 
Water Lily Salad . 
Whips and Souffles 
Emulsion ( Scott's ) , 

F. 

Farina Gruel 

Fish 

Baked Fish .... 
Baked Fish (Diabetic) 
Broiled Fish . 
Creamed Cod Fish 

" Cod Fish (Dia 
betic) 






II 



PAGE 

221 

225 

121 

181 

119 

119 

183 

165 

166 

120 

120 

120 

241 

184 

181 

122 

121 

180 

119 

121 

275 

122 

182 

181 

182 

122 

182 

182 

183 

183 

179 

180 

287 

180 

121 

276 

291 

493 



239 
159 
162 
164 
162 
163 

164 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



45a 



PAGE 

Creamed Fish .... 163 
" Fish (Diabetic) 164 
Fish (Diabetic) ... 164 
Halibut d. la Creole . .163 
Scalloped Fish .... 163 

Fish Sauces 165 

Butter Cream . .165 

Cream or White Sauce . 165 
Cream Sauce (Diabetic) . 165 
Cucumber Relish . . .166 

Egg Sauce 165 

" Sauce No. II . . 166 
Hollandaise Sauce . .166 

Tomato Sauce .... 166 
Flaxseed Tea . .136 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 
Floating Island .... 288 
Floub Gruel ob Thickened 

Milk 239 

Flour Ball 242 

Fbapp^ 

Clam Frapp6 . . .315 

Grape " .... 315 

Frosting 320 

Frozen Custard . . .311 
Frozen Desserts (See Des- 
serts) 306 

Fruits 276 

Apples — Cuban Style . 280 

Baked ... 279 

Stewed ... 279 

and Prunes . . 280 

Apricot and Prune Sauce 280 

Baked Banana .... 280 

Cranberry Sauce or Jelly 280 

. 282 
. 282 
. 280 
. 280 
. 281 
. 315 
. 281 
. 281 
. 281 
. 282 
. 314 
. 117 
. 306 



it 



it 



tt 



S€ 



Date Bonbons 
Figs, Stewed . 
Lemon Baked . 
Orange Baked . 
No. II . 
Straws . 
Sunflower 
Pineapple 
Prunes Stewed . 
Rhubarb Steamed 
Fruit Ice . 
Fruit Punch 
Fruit Pudding Sauce 
Fruit Salad 275 



PAGE 

Fruit Sandwiches . . . 259 

I^ruit Soup 227 

Fruit Whip 291 

Fruitade 112 



O. 



Game (Note Poultry) . .152 

Gelatin . . . . . 203 

Bavarian Cream ,210 

Coffee Jelly 207 

Cream " 207 

Grape Fluff 211 

Grape JeMy 206 

Jell-0 212 

Lemon Jelly .... 206 
Made in a Minute Dessert 212 



Orange Baskets 

Charlotte 

Jelly .... 

Jelly No. II . . 
Panopepton Jelly . 
Panopepton Jelly with 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Orange 



206 
211 
205 
206 
208 

209 



Peach Jelly 207 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
Wine Jelly 

Peptonised Milk Jelly 

Snow Pudding . 

(Ind.) 

Spanish Cream 

" (Ind.) 

Strawberry Mousse 

Wine Jelly . 

No. II . 



tt 



tt 



207 
205 
208 
2m 
209 
210 
210 
212 
204 
205 



Sauces: Served with Gel- 
atin 



Orange 



210 
287 
305 



Soft Custard 
Whipped Cream 

Gems 

Cornmeal Gems . . . 254 

White Gems .... 254 

Ginger Bread .... 320 

Ginger Tea 137 

Grape Juice (Welch's) . 486 
Albuminized Grape Juice 123 
Grape Ambrosia . , ,313 



454 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Grape Frapp^ . 

" Fluif . . . 


. 315 
. 211 


" Jelly . . . 
" Ice Cream . 


. 206 
. 309 


" Juice, plain 


. 116 


" Juice and Egg . 


. 122 


" Lemonade . 


. 121 


" Lithia . . . 


. 116 


" Kectar . . . 


. 116 


" Sherbet . . . 


. 313 


" Water . . . 


. 116 


" Whip . . . 
" Yolk . . . 


. 291 
. 121 


Gravy fob Roasts . 


. 152 


" " Roast Poultry 155 


Grouse, Larded . 


. 158 


Gruels 


. 238 


Arrowroot Gruel . 


. 238 


Barley Gruel 

" with Broth 


. 238 
. 238 


" of Jelly . 
Browned Flour Gruel . 


. 238 
. 242 


Caudle 


. 241 


Cracker Gruel . 


. 239 


Egg and Sherry Gruel 
Farina Gruel 


. 241 
. 239 


Flour Gruel 


. 239 


Flour Ball .... 


. 242 



240 
240 
240 
241 
241 
238 



Gum Gluten Gruel . 
Indian Meal Gruel 
Oatmeal Gruel No. I . 
" No. II 
« No. Ill 
Rice or Oat Gruel . 

Rice Jelly 244 

Tapioca Jelly .... 244 
Gum Gluten — How Pro- 
cured .... 488-497 

Baked Egg 180 

Biscuit 252 

" Crispa .... 261 

(a) Drop 253 

(b) Plain 252 

Bread 252 

Breakfast Food ... 242 

Cheese Biscuit Crisps . . 229 

Crisps 256 

Cakes (Gluten Nut) . . 319 

Fish 164 



PAGE 

Fish, Baked 164 

Creamed 164 

Creamed Codfish . . . 164 

Gruel or Porridge . . 240 

Muffins 253 

Noodles 246 

Boiled Noodles . 246 

Noodles Au Gratin . . 246 

" for Soup . . 246 

White Sauc^ .... 246 

Puddings 
Brown Betty .... 304 

Cheese 304 

Walnuts, Gluten Biscuit 

Crisps 305 

Plain 304 

Sauces 

Cream 246 

White 246 

Soups 

Asparagus 224 

Cream of Celery . . . 225 

" " Tomato . . 227 

Oyster 172 

Toast 
French 253 

Wafers 

Cheese 261 

Plain 261 

H, 

Halibut \ la Creole . .163 

Ham Broiled 152 

Hard Sauce 305 

Hasty Pudding .... 242 

Herb Tea • . 137 

Holland AisE Sauce . .166 

Hominy Mush .... 243 
Hot Cocoa Sauce .311 

Hot and Cold Desserts . 286 



/. 



Ice Cream 307 

Caramel Ice Cream . .310 

" No. II 310 
Chocolate Ice Cream . . 308 
Coffee Ice Cream . . . 308 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



455 



Frozen Custard 

Grape Ice Cream . 

Hot Cocoa Sauce for 
Cream 

Junket Ice Cream . 

Malted Milk Ice Cream 

Peach Ice Cream . 

Peptonoids Ice Cream 

Raspberry Ice Cream 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Vanilla Ice Cream 
Ices 

Clam Frapp6 

Fruit Ice . 

Grape Frapp6 

Lemon Ice . 

Orange Ice . 

" No. II . 
« No. Ill 
Straws . 

Pineapple Ice . 

Scalpicon of Fruits 
Indian Meal Gruel . 
Irish Moss 

Blanc Mange 

Jelly ..... 

Lemonade 






« 



Ice 



PAGB 

311 
309 

311 
308 
310 
309 
311 
309 
309 
307 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 
315 
240 

297 
297 
112 



K. 



PAGE 



J. 



Jellies 

Gelatin Jellies .... 203 
Jelly and Ice . . . .114 
Meat Jellies .... 221 
Starchy Jellies .... 244 

jELL-0 483 

Jell-0 with Fruit ... 212 
Made in a Minute Dessert 212 
Jelly Bread Pudding . . 303 
Junket Tablets (Han- 
son's) 480 

Junket 

Cocoa Junket .... 294 

. . 294 
. . 294 
. . 119 
. . 308 
. . 199 
. . 198 



« 



« 



Coffee 
Custard 

Junket Egg-nog 
Junket Ice Cream 
Plain Junket . 
Whey . . . 



KUMYSS 

Dr. Brush's Kumyss, 482, 198 
Home-made Kumyss . . 198 



L. 



Lamb 

Chops Broiled in Paper . 151 
French Chops . .150 

Lamb " Broiled . . 150 
Pan Broiled Chops . .150 
I^MON Souffle .... 292 
Lemonade 
ApoUinaris Lemonade . .111 
Bran Lemonade .111 

Eflfervescent Lemonade . Ill 
Egg " . 121 

Fruit " .111 

Grape " . 112 

Irish Moss " . 112 

Pineapple " .111 

Soda " .111 

Baked .... 280 
Bread Pudding . 303 

Ice 314 

Jelly .... 206 

Milk Sherbet . . 312 

Whey .... 198 

Liquid Peptonoids . . 492 

Dry Peptonoids Soluble . 492 

Dry Peptonoids with Broth 218 

" " Sandwiches 260 

Liquid Peptonoids Cold . 215 

Hot . 215 

" " with Whey 198 

Peptonoids Coffee Jelly . 207 

Custard . . 290 

Ice Cream . 311 

Wine Jelly . 205 

Lettuce Sandwiches . 259 



Lemon 



« 



(( 



it 



Lime Water 137 



if. 



Macaroni . 

Baked Macaroni 



245 
245 



456 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Boiled Macaroni . 
Boiled Noodles . 
Noodles ( Diabetic ) 
Au Gratin 



i< 



PAGE 

. . 245 

. . 246 

. . 246 

. . 246 

Sauces and Accessories . 245 

Buttered Cracker Crumbs 246 

Cream or White Sauce . 245 

Sauce (Diabetic) 246 

Tomato Sauce .... 245 

Made iit a Minute Dessert 212 

MaItre D'Hotel Butter . 149 

Malted Milk (Horlick's) 487 

Malted Milk . . . .194 

Blanc Mange 296 



i( 



it 







Cocoa 


134 






Coffee 


133 






Custard . 


290 






Ice Cream . 


310 






Plain . . 


194 






Sherbet . 


313 






and Currant 




Jelly 
Malted ] 






114 


Viilk and Egg 


121 



i( 



(( 



« 



(( 



with Tamarind 116 



with Wine 



114 



Matzoon 199 

Meat 140 

Broiled Bacon . .151 

Curled " .... 151 
Broiled Ham . . .152 

Broiled Steak .... 149 
Chops or Birds Broiled in 

Paper 151 

Lamb Chops Broiled . .150 
French Chops . . . .150 
Mutton Chops Broiled . 150 
Pan Broiled Beef Cakes . 149 
Pan Broiled Chops . .150 
Roast Meats . . .152 

Gravy 152 

Scraped Beef . . . .217 
Meat Jellies . . . .221 

Beef Jelly 222 

Calfs Foot Jelly . . .221 
Chicken Jelly .... 222 
Panopepton Jelly . . 208 

with 
... 209 



(( 



(( 



Orange 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 
Wine Jelly 
Meat Soups (See Broths 

Meringue 

Rice Meringue . 

Milk 

Albuminized Milk 
Baked Milk . . . 
Brandy and Milk . 
Buttermilk ( Artificial ) 
Cinnamon and Milk . 
Condensed Milk ( Eagl 

Brand) .... 
Evaporated Milk . 

Junket 

Kumyss 

Milk Toast .... 
Malted Milk . . . 
Matzoon or Zoolak . 
Modified Milk . . . 
Pasteurization . 
Peptonised Milk 

Effervescent 

By the Cold Process 
" " Warm Process 

Immediate Process 

Partially Peptonised 

Specially 
Rice Milk . 
Rum and Milk . 
Sherbets 

Sherry and Milk 
Sterilization 
Thickened Milk 
Whey . . . 

Acid Phosphate 

Lemon . 

Liquid Peptonoids with 
Whey . . 

Panopepton with Whey 

Wine Whey 
Minute Tapioca 
Miscellaneous Beverages 
Cereal Coft'ee . 
Cocoa (Ind.) 

Breakfast Cocoa . 

Malted Milk Cocoa 



K 



PAGE 

209 
205 
217 
287 
299 
184 
122 
194 
197 
199 
197 

479 
194 
199 
198 
257 
194 
199 
192 
193 
195 
196 
195 
195 
196 
195 
196 
197 
197 
312 
197 
194 
239 
198 
113 
113 

198 
198 
113 
484 
127 
133 
134 
133 
134 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



457 



(( 



(( 



u 



(I 



(( 



Coffee .... 
Boiled Coffee . 

" (Ind.) 
Filtered " 

" No. II 
Malted Milk Coffee 
Perculator Coffee 
Chocolate 

Milk Shake 
Syrup . 
Vienna Style 
Plain . 
" (Ind) 
Special Non-Nutritive Bev 
erages 
Bran Tea . 
Cinnamon Water 
Flaxseed Tea . 
Ginger Tea . 
Herb Tea . . . 
Lime Water . 
Slippery Elm Tea 

Tea 

Russian Tea . 
Mock Bisque Soup . 
MoussC Strawbebry 
Muffins 

Bran Mufiins . 
Gum Gluten Muffins 
Mulled Wine 
Mush (See Breakfast 

Food) . . 
Mutton Broth . 
Mutton Chops Broiled 



y. 



PAGE 

132 
132 
132 
132 
133 
133 
131 
134 
135 
136 
135 
134 
135 

136 
137 
136 
136 
137 
137 
137 
137 
131 
131 
227 
212 

254 
253 
122 

242 
219 
150 



(( 



(( 



Noodles (Diabetic) 
Au Gratin 
Boiled . 
Non-Nutritious Beverages 

Bran Tea .... 

Cinnamon Water . 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 

Flaxseed Tea . 

Ginger Tea .... 

Herb Tea .... 

Lime Water 



246 
246 
246 
136 
137 
136 
136 
136 
137 
137 
137 



PAGE 

Slippery Elm Tea ... 137 
Nutritious Desserts . 285 
Nutritious Wheat Pud- 
ding 296 

Nuts 283 



0. 



« 



« 



it 



it 



III 



Oatmeal 

Caudle .... 
Oat or Rice Gruel 
Oatmeal Gruel . 

No. II 
No. 
Mush . 
Water 

" No. II 
Olive Oil (Nicelle) 
Salads .... 
Salad Dressings 
Onions 

Boiled .... 
Creamed 
Scalloped 

Soup .... 
Omelet 

Baked Meat Omelet 
Bread Omelet . 
Foamy Omelet . 
Meat Omelet . 
Omelet SoufiSe . 
Oranges 

Albuminized Orange 
Baked Orange . 
Orange Baskets 

Bread Pudding 
Charlotte . 
Custard 
Ice . 

No. II 
No. Ill 
Jelly No. I 

" No. 
Plain 
Sauce . 
Straws . 
Sunflower 
Orangeade • 



(( 



It 



II 



. 241 

. 238 

. 240 

. 241 

. 241 

. 243 

. 125 

. 126 

. 489 

. 272 

. 273 

. 269 

. 269 

. 269 

. 225 

. 182 

. 182 

. 181 

. 182 

. 292 

. 123 

. 280 

. 206 

. 302 

. 211 

. 288 

. 313 

. 314 

. 314 

. 205 

. 206 

. 281 

. 210 

. 315 

. 281 

. 112 



458 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Oysters 166 

Broiled 170 

Creamed 170 

Creamed No. II . . .170 
Pan Roasted . . .170 

Raw 169 

Roasted in the Shell . . 169 

Scalloped 171 

Soup ....... 171 

Soup (Diabetic) ... 172 

Stew 172 

To Wash Oysters . . .169 



P. 



Panada (Cracker) . .126 

(Bread) ... 127 

Pax Broiled Beef Cakes 149 

Panopepton 485 

Ice Panopepton . .216 

Panopepton Bouillon Hot 228 

Hot . . . 216 

Jelly ... 208 

Jelly with 

Orange 209 

Panopepton with Whey . 198 

Pasteurization .... 193 

Pasteurizer (Hygeia) . 194 

Parsley Butter .... 267 

Peas Green 269 

" Canned 270 

" Creamed No. 1 . . 270 

No. II . . 270 

Peach Ice Cream . . . 309 

" Jelly 207 

" Meringue . . . 293 

" and Rice 298 

Peptonising Tubes ( Fair- 
child Bros. & Foster) 485 
Peptonised Milk . .195 

Effervescent .... 196 
By the Cold Process . .195 
" " Warm Process . 195 
Immediate Process . . 196 
Partially Peptonised . .195 
Specially " . . 196 

Peptonoids (Liquid) . . 492 
Dry Peptonoids Soluble . 492 



PAGE 

Dry Peptonoids with Broth 218 

Sandwiches 260 

Liquid " Cold . .215 

Hot . . 215 
with Whey 198 



ki 



(( 



« 



Peptonoids Coffee Jelly 


. 207 


Custard . . 


. 290 


" Ice Cream . 


. 311 


Wine Jelly . 


. 205 


Phosphate (Horsford's) 


478 


Acid Phosphate 


. 113 


Whey . 


. 113 


Pineapple (Hawaiian) 


495 


Pineapple Cream . 


. 295 


Egg-nog 


. 120 


Ice . . . 


. 315 


Juice . . 


. 113 


" Lemonade . 


. Ill 


Tapioca 


. 300 


POP-OVEBS 


. 254 


Potatoes 


. 265 


Baked 


. 266 


Boiled 


. 265 


Creamed .... 


267 


Mashed 


265 


Potatoes Au Gratin 


267 


Potato Balls . . . . 


267 


" Cakes . . . . 


266 


" in Half Shell . . 


266 


Riced Potatoes . . . , 


265 


Surprise Balls . . . . 


266 


Poultry 


152 


Birds Broiled in Paper . 


151 


Breaded Sauce for Game . 


158 


Broiled Chicken 


156 


Quail . . . . 


156 


Small Birds . . 


156 


" Squabs 


156 


Creamed Chicken . 


157 


Dry Dressing for Stuffing 


J 154 


General Rule for Cleaning 


? 


Poultry 


. 153 


Gravy for Roast Poultry 


. 155 


Jellied Chicken 


. 157 


Larded Grouse . . . . 


. 158 


" Quail . . . . 


. 158 


Roast Poultry . . . , 


. 154 


Dry Dressing . 


. 154 


Gravy 


. 155 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



459 



To Bone Birds . 
To Clean Poultry 
To Truss " 
Scalloped Chicken 
Prunes Stewed 
Pudding Sauces 
Foamy Sauce 
Fruit " 
Hard 

Orange " 
Whipped Cream 

No 



t< 



ti 



Punch 

Fruit Punch 

Tea " 

Tutti Frutti Punch 



II 



PAGE 

155 
153 
154 
157 
281 
305 
305 
306 
305 
210 
305 
306 

117 
116 
117 



0. 



Quail 

Broiled 156 

Broiled in Paper . . .156 
Breaded Sauce for Game . 158 
Larded Quail . . . .158 



R. 



Baspbebby Ice Cream . . 309 

" Tapioca ... 301 

Ehubabb Steamed . . 282 

" Water .... 115 

Rice 

Boiled Rice 297 

Cream of Rice Pudding . 299 
Peaches and Rice . . . 298 
Plain Rice Pudding . . 299 

Rice Gruel 238 

" Jelly 244 

" Meringue ... 299 

« Milk 197 

« Water . . . .125 

" No. II . . . 125 

Southern Snow Balls . . 298 

Steamed Rice .... 298 

Roasts of Meats . . .152 





PAGE 


Rum and Milk . . 


. . 197 


8. 
Salads .... 


. . 272 


Chicken Salad . 


. . 274 


Filled Eggs . . 


. . 184 


Fruit Salad . . 


. . 275 


Marguerite Salad . 


. . 275 


Mixed " 


. . 275 


Sweetbread " 


. . 275 


Tomato " 


. . 275 


Waldorf " . 


. . 275 


Water Lily « . 


. . 276 


Salad Accompanimentg 


\ . 276 


Cheese Gluten Biscuit 


Crisps 


. . 276 


Cheese Wafers . 


. . 276 


Salad Dbess'ings 


. . 272 


Boiled Dressing 


. . 273 


Cream Dressing 


. . 274 


French " 


. . 273 


Mayonnaise . 


. . 273 


Sardine Sandwiches 


. . 260 


Sauces fob 




Ice Cream (Hot Cocoa) . 311 


Macaroni and Noodles 245-246 


Meat 


. . 149 


Scalloped Dishes . 


. 271 


Fish 


. 165 


Pudding .... 


. . 305 


Vegetable .... 


. 271 


Sandwiches .... 


. 258 


Boston Brown Bread . 


. . 259 


Bread and Butter . 


. 259 


Cheese Sandwiches 


. . 269 


Chicken 


. . 259 


^gg 


. 183 


Fruit 


. 259 


Lettuce " 


. 259 


Nut 


. 259 


Peptonoids " 


. 260 


Raw Beef " 


. . 217 


Sardine " 


. . 260 


SCALPICON OF FbUITS 


. . 315 


Scraped Beef . . 


. . 217 


Shell-Fish . . . 


. 166 


Oysters .... 


. . 166 


Broiled 


. . 170 



460 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PACE 

. 170 

. 170 

. 170 

. 169 

. 169 

. 171 

. 171 

. 172 

. 172 

. 169 

. 172 

Albuminized Clam Water 123 



Creamed 

Creamed No. II . 
Pan Roasted . 
Raw .... 
Roasted in the Shell 
Scalloped . 
Soup .... 
Soup (Diabetic) . 
Stew .... 
To Wash Oysters 
Clams .... 



« 



<( 



(( 



(( 



(i 



Clam Bouillon . 

Bouillon Bisque 

Broth 

Broth No. II 

Broth on Toast 

Frapp6 

Sherbet . 

Soup . 

Stew . 

Water 

** No. II 
Little Neck Clams 
Steamed Clams 
Sherbet 

Clam Sherbet . 
Grape Ambrosia 
Grape Sherbet . 
Lemon Milk Sherbet 

" " " No 

Malted Milk Sherbet 
Strawberry Sherbet 
" " No 

Sherry (Albuminized) 
Sherry and Milk 
Slippery Elm Tea 
Sippets 

Soda Lemonade . 
Soft Custard 
Almond Pudding 
Apple Custard . 
Banana Custard 
Floating Island 
Meringue 
Orange Custard 
Peach Custard . 
Soft Custard No. I 

No. II 



(( 



« 



174 
175 
173 
220 
25S 
315 
312 
174 
174 
173 
173 
172 
172 



. 312 
. 313 
. 313 
. 312 

II 312 
. 313 
. 312 

II 312 
. 123 
. 197 
. 137 
. 256 
. Ill 
. 287 
. 288 
. 288 
. 288 
. 288 
. 287 
. 288 
. 288 
. 287 
. 287 



PAGE 

Soft Custard (Diabetic) . 287 
Souffles or Whips . . .291 

Soups 223 

Asparagus Soup (Cream) 223 

" Soup (Diabetic) 224 

Clam Bouillon . . .174 

" Bouillon Bisque . 175 

" Soup 174 

Consomme 228 

Cream of Asparagus . . 223 
" " Celery ... 224 
" " Celery (Dia- 
betic) . . ■ . . . . 225 
Cream of Corn . . . 224 
" Onion . . . 225 
" " Pea . . ... 225 
" " Potatoes . . 226 
" " Rice ... 226 
" " Tomato Soup 
(Diabetic) . . . .227 
Dried Fruit Soup . .227 

Meat Soup 217 

Mock Bisque Soup . .227 

Onion Soup (Diabetic) . 226 

Oyster Soup . . .171 

" (Diabetic) , 172 

" Stew . . . .172 

Panopepton Bouillon . . 228 

Tomato Soup with Broth 226 

Victoria Soup . . .228 

Soup Accompaniments . . 229 

Crisped Crackers . . . 229 

Crofitons 230 

Educator Crackers . . 230 
Gum Gluten Crisps . 256 
" " Biscuit Crisps 229 
" " Noodles . . 230 
Toasted Crackers . . . 229 
Sponge Cake . . 318-319 
Special Non-Nutritive Bev- 
erages 136 

Bran Tea 137 

Cinnamon Water . .136 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 

" Tea ... . 136 

Ginger Tea 137 

Herb Tea 137 

Lime Water .... 137 
Slippery Elm Tea . . . 137 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



461 





PAGE 


Spinach 


. 269 


Squabs, Bboiled . . . 


. 156 


String Beans . . . 


. 270 


Starchy Beverages . 


. 124 


Barley Water . 


. 124 


" for Infants 


. 125 


Bread Panada . 


. 127 


Cracker Panada 


. 126 


Crust Coffee 


. 126 


Oatmeal Water 


. 125 


" No. II . 


. 126 


Rice Water .... 


. 125 


" No. II . . 


. 125 


Toast W^ater 


. 126 


Starchy Jellies 


. 244 


Barley Jelly 


. 244 


Cornstarch Jellies . 


. 295 


Rice Jelly .... 


. 244 


Tapioca Jelly . 


. 244 


Steak (See Beef) . . 


. 149 


Sterilization of Milk 


. 194 


Sterilizer (Hygeia) 


. 194 


Steamed Clams . 


. 172 


Stew, Oyster . . . 


. 172 


Stokes' Mixture . . 


. 121 


Strawberry Ice Cream 


. 309 


" Mousse 


. 212 


Whip . . 


. 291 


Sugar of Milk (Patch's 


) 499 


Sugar Sxrup .... 


. 110 


Sweet Breads 


. 200 


Broiled 


. 201 


Creamed .... 


. 201 


No. II . . 


. 202 


Fricasseed .... 


. 202 


Parboiled Sweet Bread 


. 201 


Salad 


. 275 


Sweet Breads with Peas 


. 202 


Sweetina 


. 488 


Sypup (Sugar) . . . 


. 110 



T, 

Tamarind Water 

Malted Milk 
Tapioca (Minute) . . 

Apple Tapioca . 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 



115 
116 
484 
300 
301 



PAGE 

Date Tapioca . . . .301 
Pineapple Tapioca . . . 300 
Plain Tapioca .... 300 
Raspberry Tapioca . . 301 
Tapioca Cream .... 300 
Tapioca Jelly .... 244 

Tea 

Bran Tea 137 

Flaxseed and Licorice Tea 136 
" Tea ... . 136 

Ginger Tea 137 

Herb Tea 137 

Russian Tea . .131 

Slippery Elm Tea ... 137 

Tea 131 

Tea Punch 116 

Toast 255 

Celery Toast .... 257 
Clam Broth Toast . . . 258 
Cream Toast .... 257 
" No. II . . 257 
Crisps (Gum Gluten) . 256 

Crotltons 230 

French Toast (Diabetic) . 258 
Gum Gluten Crisps . . 256 
Biscuit Crisp 261 



K 



tt 



Milk Toast ..... 257 

Sippets 256 

Toast Crackers . . . 256 
" Sticks .... 256 
" Water . . . .126 
Water Toast .... 256 
Tomato Sauce for Fish . 166 
" " (For Maca- 

roni and Noodles) . . 245 
Tomatoes 

Baked 270 

Mock Bisque Soup . . 227 

Scalloped 271 

Stewed 270 

Salad 275 

Soup with Broth . . . 226 
Turkey (See Poultry) . 152 
TuTTi Frutti Punch . .117 



V, 
Vanilla Ice Cream . 



. 307 



462 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



PAGE 

Veal Broth 220 

Vegetables 261 

Asparagus on Toast . . 268 

Boiled 267 

Creamed 268 

Beet Greens .... 269 

Carrots 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Cauliflower 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Celery 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Dandelion Greens . . 269 

Onions 269 

Boiled 269 

Creamed 269 

Scalloped 269 

Peas, Green .... 269 

Canned .... 270 

Creamed No. I . . 270 

No. II . 270 

Potatoes 265 

Baked 266 

Boiled 265 

Creamed 267 

Mashed 265 

Potato Au Gratin . . 267 

" Balls .... 267 

" Cakes .... 266 

Half Shell . . 266 

Riced Potatoes . . 265 

Surprise Balls ... 266 

Spinach 269 

String Beans .... 270 

Tomatoes 270 

Baked 270 

Scalloped ..... 271 

Stewed 270 

Vegetable Sauces . . .271 

Cream or White Sauce . 271 

Sauce No. II . .271 

Parsley Butter . . . .267 



Victoria Soup 



PACK 

228 



W. 

Wafers 

Cheese Wafers .... 276 
Gluten Cheese Wafers . 261 
Marguerite Wafers . 320 

Water (Albuminized) . 122 

Whey 

Acid Phosphate . . .113 

Lemon 113 

Liquid Peptonoids with 

Whey 198 

Panopepton with Whey . 198 
Wine Whey . . . .113 

Whipped Cream .... 305 

Whips and Souffles . .291 
Custard Souffle .... 292 

Fruit Whip 291 

Grape Whip . , . .291 
Lemon Souffle . . . .292 
Omelet Souffle .... 292 
Peach Meringue . . .293 
Strawberry Whip . . .291 

White Sauce for 

Fish 165 

Macaroni 245 

Noodles 246 

Scalloped Dishes . . .271 
Vegetables 271 

Wine Jelly No. I . . . 204 

" No. II . . . 205 

(Mulled) .... 122 

" Whey 113 

r. 

Yeast ....... 24^ 

Fleischmann's Yeast . . 490 



Z. 



ZOOLAK 



199 



GENERAL INDEX 



Systematic Shampooing 

WITH 

PACKER'S 
TAR SOAP 

(PINC-TAR. QLYCCRINC, VCQCTABLE OILS) 

CONTROLS DANDRUFF 

by removing dead scales, freeing the pores and 
substantially increasing the resisting power of 
the scalp tissues. 

IMPARTS VITALITY TO THE HAIR 

by the foregoing and — by bringing more blood, 
to the scalp, thus increasing its nutrition. 

PREVENTS PREMATURE BALDNESS 

by all the foregoing and — by loosening the 
scalp, ventilating the hair roots and establish- 
ing hygienic conditions. 

Systematic care of the hair and scalp fully 
described in our booklets. Free on request. 



THE PACKER MFG. CO., Suite 86 B, 81 Fulton St., New York 



464 



GENERAL INDEX 



A. 



PAGE 



Absorption 46 

of Carbohydrates 48 

of Fats ... 48 

of Mineral Matter 49 

of Protein . . 47 

of Water ... 49 

Absorption, Summary of 49 

Acid, Hydrochloric . . 30, 37 



<( 



(t 



tt 



it 



it 



tt 



Acidosis, Dietetic Treatment 367 
Acid Phosphate . .113 

Acids, Fatty 20 

Acids, Vegetable . . .31 

Salts of 31 

Adolescent, Diet of . . . 442 
Aged, Diet for ... . 443 
Albumin, Cooking of . 11 

" Effects of Heat on 178 
Albuminoids . . . 8-10-140 

Albumins 9-10 

Albuminuria, Diet in . 394 
Alcohol, in Pneumonia . . 349 
Use of in Sick Room 83 
Value of in Tuber- 
culosis 352 

Alcoholics as Beverages . . 35 

AlgflB 284 

Amino Acids 39 

Amylopsin 45 

Anabolism 50 

Animal Food (See Protein, 

Meats, Eggs, Milk, Etc.). 
Antiseptics in Food Preser- 
vation 95 

Appendicitis, Diet in . . 389 
Appetite (See under Diges- 
tion). 

465 



Appetite of the Sick . 
Appetizers (See under Bev- 
erages). 

Apples 

Asparagus 

Assimilation 

B, 

Baby's Stomach, Capacity of 
Beans (See Legumes). 
Beating in Cookery 
Beef . . 

Cuts of 

Drippings 

Extracts 

Juice . 
" " Absorption of 



PAGE 

75 



278 

265 

50 



(( 



(t 



(( 



ft 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Care in Serving 



tt 



tt 



Composition of 
Beef Juice, Substitutes for . 
" vs. Beef Tea . . 
Preparations 
Principles of Cooking . 

Raw 

Tea 

Cofliposition of 
Nutritive Value of 
" vs. Beef Juice 
" vs. Broth . 
Tests for Good . 

Beets 

Beverages .... 
Acid . . 
" " Sweetening of 

" Albuminous . 

** as Appetizers 



(( 



tt 



(t 



tt 
tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



ft 



35, 



409 

90 
144 
146 

20 
214 
212 
213 
213 
212 
213 
213 
212 
213 
214 
213 
213 
214 
213 
218 
144 
264 
109 
110 
110 
118 

35 



466 



GENERAL INDEX 



PACK 

Beverages, Miscellaneous . 127 
Nutritive ... 36 
Sapid .... 36 
*' Stimulating . 36 
" Thirst Quenching 36 
" Special Non-Nu- 
tritive 130 

Beverages, Starchy . . .124 
Digestion of .... 124 
Principles of Cooking . .124 

Bile 38 

Biliousness, Diet in . . . 396 
Body, Composition of . . 4 
" Energy Requirements 

of 60 

Bottle Feeding .... 410 

Bread, Composition of . . 247 

Digestibility of . . 247 

" Energy Value of . 256 

" Fermented . . .249 

Gluten .... 248 

" Making of . . . 249 

Nutritive Value of . 247 

Puddings .... 302 

" Toasted .... 256 

" Unfermented . . 250 

Breakfast Foods . . 235, 242 

Breast Feeding .... 406 

Bright's Disease, Acute, Diet 

Bright's Disease, Chronic, 

Diet in 391 

Bromelin 278 

Broncho-Pneumonia, Diet in 350 

Broth 217 

" Composition of . .217 
" Energy Value of . . 218 
** Principles of Cooking 217 
" vs. Beef Tea . . .218 

Butter 189 

Butterine 20 

Buttermilk 190 

C. 

Cabbage 266 

Cake 317 

" General Directions for 
Making 317 



PAGE 

Calcium Phosphate ... 29 

Calories 57 

Calorimeter 57 

Cane Sugar 14 

14 
14 
14 
12 
48 



(( 



(( 



« 
« 



ft 

it 



Description of 
Food, Uses of . 
Sources of . 
Carbohydrates .... 

Absorption of 
Classifications 

of ... 13 
Definition of 12 
Digestion of 40 
Function of 12 
of Animal Food 138 
Source of . 12 

Carbonates 30 

Carrots 264 

Casein 9, 185 

Cauliflower 265 

Celery 265 

Cellulose .... 17, 235 
Centigrade Scale, Change to 

Fahrenheit .... 106 



« 



« 



(( 



« 
« 



(( 



Cereal Breakfast Foods 

Cereals 

Care of . 
Composition of 
Digestibility of 



<( 



tt 



it 



ft 



« 



. 235 
. 233 
. 237 
. 234 
. 236 
Nutritive Value of . 237 
Principles of Cook- 
ing 235 

Cheese 189 

Chicken, How to Select . .153 
Children, Feeding Sick . . 438 

Chlorides 29 

Chocolate 129 

" Compared with Tea 
and Coffee . . . .130 
Chocolate, Nutritive Value of 130 
" Principles of Cook- 
ing of 130 

Chocolate, Source of . . .129 

Cinnamon 34 

Clams 168 

" Varieties of . . . 168 
Cloves ....... 34 

Cocoa 129 

Codliver Oil 20 



GENERAL INDEX 



467 



PAGE 

Coffee 128 

" Effects of ... . 128 
" Sources of . .128 
Colic, Dietetic Treatment of, 

in Children .... 438 

Collagen 10, 140 

Condiments 33 

Classification of ... 33 
Constipation, Diet in . 382 
" in Nurslings, 
Treatment of .441 
Consumption (See Tubercu- 
losis). 
Convalescence, Diet in . . 332 
Cooking, Blending Ingredi- 
ents in 90 

Cooking, Methods of . . 88 

Objective Points in 88 

" Principles of . . 89 

" Processes, Objects of 89 

" Processes, Principal 89 
" Success in . . .88 
" Suggestions in 

Method of Working in . 90 

Crackers 260 

Cream 186, 189 

Curds 190 

Cutting in Cookery ... 90 



Z>. 



Dessert, Frozen 

Desserts, Nutritious . 

Dextrin .... 

Dextrose .... 
Description of 
Food Uses of 
Sources of . 

Diabetes, Diet in . 

" Chronic, Diet of . 

Diabetic Chart (Joslin and 

Goodall) 359 

Diabetic Diet of Bellevue 

Hospital 356 

Diabetic Diet of Massachu- 
setts General Hospital . 357 

Diabetic Diet of Presbyterian 

Hospital, N. Y. . . . 357 

Diarrhoea, Diet in . . .385 



« 



it 



«( 



it 



i( 



306 




286 




40 




13 




13 




14 




14 




355 




358 





PAGE 

Diet, after Laparotomy, etc. 399 
" Animal, Disadvantages 

of Exclusive .130 

Diet, Bellevue Hospital . . 328 

" Broth 327 

" Convalescent ... 32a 
" Diabetic, of Bellevue 
Hospital .... 356 

Diet, Diabetic, of Massachu- 
setts Hospital . . 357 

Diet, Enteric 388 

" Extra, for Typhoid, in 
Presbyterian Hospital, 
N. Y 341 

Diet, Farinaceous , 324-5 

Fat Free .... 326 

Fish 327 

High Caloric, in Ty- 
phoid 336 

Diet, Hospital, General Type 

of 323^ 

Diet, Hospital Extra . . 327 

Diet, Ideal 233 

" in Acute Bright's Dis- 
ease 390 

Diet in Acute Gastritis . 373 
" in Acute Gout . . 367 
" in A c u t e Nephritis, 
Mass. Gen'l Hosp. . 392 

Diet in Acute Rheumatism. 368 
in Adolescence . . 442 
in Appendicitis . 389 
in Albuminuria . 394 
in Biliousness . . 395 
in Broncho- Pneumonia 350^ 
in Chronic Diabetes . 358 
in Chronic Gastritis . 373 
in Chronic Gout . 368 
in Constipation . 382 
in Convalescence from 
Fever 332 

Diet in Convalescence from 

Typhoid .... 339 

Diet in Diarrhoea . . 385 

in Diphtheria . . 347 

in Disease .331 

" in Diseases of the Gen- 

ito Urinary System . 390 



(( 



(( 



468 



GENERAL INDEX 



(( 



PAGE 

Diet in Disorders of Nutri- 
tion . . . . . . 355 

Diet in Dysentery . . 386-387 

381 
331 
373 
396 
331 
381 
367 
403 
350 
395 
370 
443 
325 
348 
401 
346 
396 
397 
443 
346 



in Dyspepsia 
in Fevers 

in Gastric Diseases 
in Heart Disease . 
in Infectious Diseases 
in Intestinal Diseases 
in Lithemia 
in Lying-in Period 
in Mumps . ' . 
in Nervous Disorders 
in Obesity 
in Old Age . 
in Oxaluria . 
in Pneumonia 
in Pregnancy 
in Quinsy 
in Skin Diseases 
in Surgical Cases . 
in the Sedentary 
in Tonsilitis 
in Tuberculosis (e s p e- 
cially Pulmonary Con- 
sumption) .... 351 

Diet in Typhoid, Late Con- 
valescent (Presbyterian 
Hospital, N. Y.) . . 341 

T)iet in Typhoid, Summary of 337 
in Ulcer of the Stomach 376 
in Vomiting of Preg- 
nancy 402 

in Whooping Cough . 351 

Diet, Liberal, in Typhoid 

Fever .... 336, 341 

Diet, Light 323-4 

388 
335, 337 



(( 



i( 



<( 



« 



<( 



<( 



(( 



■n 



.<( 



<< 



u 



i( 



4( 



(( 



<( 



<< 



<< 



<( 



II 



il 



n 



t( 



tt 



(( 



Liquid Enteric . 
Liquid, in Typhoid 
Meat, Exclusive 
Milk .... 
Mixed 
Nephritic 
Nitrogenous . 
Nutrient . 
of Nursing Mother 
of Wet Nurse . 
Diets, Presbyterian Hospital, 
N. Y 



«( 



(t 



(< 



(< 



({ 



ti 



ii 



it 



51 
324 
7 
392 
325 
325 
404 
404 

329 



PAGE 

Diet, Restricted . . . '. 328 

" Salt-free .... 393 

" Schmidt 327 

" Special Enteric ... 388 

" Starvation, in Typhoid 334 

" Vegetable vs. Animal . 233 

" Strictly Sugar-free . , 357 

" Test 326 

Dietaries for Young Chil- 
dren 43G 

Dietaries, Hospital . . 323 

Digestion 36 

" Evidences of in 

Sick 74 

Digestion of Fat .... 40 
" of Protein, Prod- 
ucts of . . . .37, 39 
Digestion of Protein, Sum- 
mary of 39 

Digestion of Proteins 36 
" of Proteins in In- 
testines 38 

Digestion of Proteins in 

Stomach 36 

Digestion of Starch ... 40 

Products of .... 41 

Summary of . .41 

Digestion of Sugars . . , . 42 

Products of . . . . . 42 

Summary of .... 42 

Digestion, Salivary . . .41 

Rate of ... 45 

" Resume of . . 43 

Diphtheria, Diet in . . . 347 

Disease, Acute, Feeding in . 73 

Diet in . . . .331 

Disinfection of Utensils . 84 

Drinks, Cold 109 

Drinks, Hot 109 

Dysentery (Acute Colitis), 

Diet in 387 

Dyspepsia, Diet in . . .381 



E. 



Eggs 






Composition of . 
Cooking of . 



. 175 
. 175 
11-12 



GENERAL INDEX 



46» 



PAGE 



Eggs, Digestibility of . .176 
Energy Value of 118, 179 
Nutritive Value of . .177 
Principles for Cooking 178 
Suggestions Concerning 178 
Test for Fresh . . .178 
Varieties of . . . .176 

Enteric Diet 388 

Equivalents, Table of Metric 101 

Erepsin 39 

Excretion . .... 53 

Extractives, Nitrogenous 11, 138 

144 
Extracts, Flavoring ... 34 



F. 



Fahrenheit Scale, Change *to 

Centigrade . . .106 

Fat 19 

" Absorption of ... 48 

« Animal 138 

" Cheap Forms of . . .21 
" Definition of .... 19 
" Description of ... 20 
" Digestibility of ... 22 
" Digestion of . .40 

" Function of .... 21 
" Percentages in Cream, 
Table Showing ... 426 
Fat, Principles of Cooking . 22 
" Sources of .... 21 
" Tests for .... 23 
" vs. Carbohydrate as 

Food 23 

Fat, Value of in Tuberculosis 352 
Feeding, Details of . . . 76 
Forced .... 78 
in Acute Disease . 73 
Feeding, Infant .... 406 
Artificial ... 406 
'* Breast .... 406 
" Hygiene of Natural 408 
Feeding, Nasal .... 79 
Feeding of Young Children . 434 
of Young Children, 
General Rules for . . 435 
Rectal .... 79 
the Helpless Pa- 
tient 78 






it 



ti 



(( 



PACK 

Feeding the Sick . . . 72? 
the Sick, Physi- 
cians' Directions for 72 
Feeding the Sick, Position in 77 
the Sick, Time for . 77 
" the Unconscious Pa- 
tient 7a 

Feeding and Sleep ... 78^ 
Fever, Diet in .... 331 
" Typhoid (See Typhoid 
Fever). 

Fibrin 10 

Figs 278 

Fish •. . 159 

" Composition of . . . 160 
'* Digestibility of . . 159 
" Energy Value of . .161 
" Nutritive Value of . IQO 
" Principles of Cooking 161 

" Salt 160 

" Sauces 165 

" Season for . .161 

• " Test for Freshness of 161 

Fletcher, Mr., on Mastication 41 

Folding In, in Cookery . . 90- 

Food Accessories . . . 4, 33 

" Adjuncts . . 4, 33 

" Adulteration of . . 97 

" Animal 13* 

" Animal, Carbohydrates 

of 13a 

Food, Animal, Composition 

of 13a 

Food, Animal, Digestibility 

of 139 

Food, Extractives of .138 

" Mineral Matter of .13^ 
" Animal, Proteins . . 13a 
" Animal, Water of . 139 
" Care of .... 92 
" Care of, in Markets 

and Kitchens ... 92 

Food, Classification of . 5, 6 
" Composition of . . 4 
" Concentration of . .95 
" Definition of . . . 4 
" Effects of Heat on . 88 
" Determination of Energy 
Value of .... 5a 



470 



GENERAL INDEX 



PAOS 

J'ood, Fly Pollution of . .94 
" How to Serve ... 86 
" Methods of Cooking . 88 
" Liquid (Fluid) . . 323 
" Nitrogenous ... 8 
Classification of 8 
Source of . . . 9 
J'ood, Non-Nitrogenous . 12 
" Object of ... . 3 
" Predigestion of . . 96 
" Preservation ... 95 
" Preservation by anti- 
septics 95 

Pood Preservation by D r y- 

ing 95 

Food Preservation by Exclu- 
sion of Air ... 95 
Pood Preservation by Freez- 
ing 95 

Pood, Quantity and Quality 

of, for Sick ... 76 
Pood, Soft (Semi-Solid) . 323 

" Solid 323 

" Source of ... . 4 
" Storage of .... 93 
•* Temperature of, for 

Sick 76 

Pood Values 54 

" Values, Tabulation of 64-71 
" Vegetable .... 231 
" Vegetable, Carbohy- 
drates of . . . .232 
Pood, Vegetable Composition 

of 31 

Pood, Vegetable, Digestibil- 
ity of 232 

Pood, Vegetable, Fats of . 232 

" Vegetable, Mineral 

Matter of .... 232 

Pood, Vegetable, Protein of . 232 

" Vegetable, Water of . 232 

" Washing of Uncooked 93 

PormulflB for Infant Feeding 416 

Fowl, How to Select . .153 

Freezing, General Hules for 307 

" in Small Amounts 307 

Fruits 276 

" as Ballast ... 279 
" Composition of . .276 



PAGE 

Fruits, Digestibility of . .277 

" Dried 279 

" Flavoring Principle of 277 
" (Fresh) and Vegeta- 
bles, Agreement between 278 

Fruits, Fuel Value of . . 278 
" Nutritive Value of . 278 
" Precautions in Use of 279 
" Sugar-content of . . 277 

Pungi 284 

G. 

Galactose 42 

Game (See Poultry). 

Gastric Juice 37 

Gastritis, Acute, Diet in . 373 
" • Chronic, Diet in . 373 

Gavage 439 

Gelatin 10, 203 

'* Digestibility of . . 203 
" Nutritive Value of . 203 
" Source of ... . 203 
" Principles of Cooking 203 
Gelatinoids . . . 8-10, 140 

Ginger 33 

Glucose (See Dextrose). 

Gluten Bread 248 

Standards ... 249 
Gout, Acute, Diet in . .367 
•* Chronic, Diet in . . 368 
Grape Sugar (See Dextrose)". 

Grapes 278 

Gruels 236, 238 

Gums 18 

H. 

Heat, Average Normal Out- 
put from Body ... 62 
Heart Disease, Diet in . . 396 
Helpless, Feeding the . . 78 

Horse-radish 33 

Hospital Dietaries . . . 323 

/. 

Ice Box and Contents . .91 
Ice Cream . . • . . . 307 



GENERAL INDEX 



471 



PACK 

Ice, Keeping of, in Sick Room 83 

Ices 313 

Infant Feeding .... 406 

Artificial . 410 
*' Caloric Val- 
ues of 429 

Infant Feeding, Formulae for 416 
" " Hygiene of 

Natural 408 

Infant Feeding, Maynard 

Ladd Table for . . . 425 
Infant Feeding, Scheme of 
at Lying-in Hospital, 

N. Y 431 

Infant Feeding, Table Show- 
ing Proportions for 
Healthy Child ... 427 
Intestinal Diseases, Diet in . 381 
Iron 29 



J. 



Jellies, Starchy . 


. . 244 


Juice, Gastric . 


. . 38 


" Intestinal . 


. . 38 


" Pancreatic . 


. . 38 


Junket 


190, 293 



Katabolism 50 

Kefir 192 

Kumyss 191 

L. 

Lactalbumin . ' . . .185 

Lactase 42, 186 

Lactose 14, 185 

Lamb 145 

" Cuts of .... 148 

" Test for Good ... 146 

Laparotomy, Diet after . . 399 

Lecithin 20 

Legumes 262 

Composition of . . 262 
Digestibility of . 263 
Principles of Cook* 
ing 263 



« 
it 



PAGE 

Levulose 43 

Lichens 284 

Lime Starvation .... 32 

Lipase 40 

Lithemia, Diet in . .367 

Lying-in Period, Diet in . 403 



M. 



Max^troni 235 

Magnesium 29 

" Phosphate . . 29 

Maltase 40 

Maltose 40 

Marasmus in Infants, Die- 
tetic Treatment of . .441 

Mastication 41 

Matzoon 192 

Measures 98 

" Apothecaries; . . 100 

" Approximate . . 100 

" of Volume, Metric 

System 101 

Measures of Weight, Metric 

System . . . . : 101 
Measures, Table of . .99 

Measuring Cup, Standard . 98 

Meat 140 

" Absorption of . . 141 

" Broiling of ... . 142 
" Composition of . .140 

" Cooking 142 

" Cuts of . . . 143, 146 

" Digestibility of . . 141 

" Effect of Cooking . . 141 

" Effects of Water on . 143 

" Energy Value of . . 149 

" Jellies . . 204, 218, 221 

" Nutritive Value of . 140 

" Quality of .... 143 

" Uncooked .... 141 

Metabolism of Carbohydrates 52 

" Fat . . . 52 

" Protein . .51 

Metric System . .101 

Milk as a Beverage 35 

" Ash of , . . 185, 186 

" Care of 187 



472 



GENERAL INDEX 



Milk, Certification of 
" Composition of . . 
" Condensed . 
Desiccated . 
Difference Between 
man and Cows . 
Milk, Digestibility of 
Energy Value of 
Evaporated 
Fats of . . . 
(See Cream, Butter 
Milk, Fermented . 
" Formulae, Fat to 
tein = 3:1 
Milk, Formulae, Fat to 

tein = 2:1 
Milk, Formulae, Fat to 
tein, nearly Equal 









a 



PAGE 

. 187 

. 184 

. 192 

. 193 

Hu- 

. 410 

. 186 

. 193 

. 194 

185, 186 

) 



Pro- 



Pro- 
Pro- 



191 
419 
422 



423 



Milk, Home Modification of 414 
" Human, Drugs in . . 405 
" Laboratory . .414 

" Metschnikoff's Arti- 
ficially Soured Milk . 191 
Milk Modification .412 

" Modification, What Di- 
•lution to Use . .413 

Milk, Modified 102 

Mothers, Composition 



of 



407 
185 
188 
192 
189 

413 
186 
190 
188 

29 

" Absorption of 49 

" Amount and 

Kind of in Body . . 29 

Mineral Matter, Function of 29 

** " Importance 

of 31 

Mineral Matter in Plants . 31 
" " in Animal 
Food 30, 139 



Milk, Nutritive Value of 
Pasteurisation of . 

" Peptonized . . . . 

" Products . . . . 

" Quantity to Use in In- 
fant Feeding 
Milk, Skimmed . . . . 

" Sour 

" Sterilisation of 
^lilk, Sugar (See Lactose) . 

Mineral Matter . . . . 






PAGE 

Mineral Matter, Source of . 30 
" Uses of in 

Disease 32 

Moss, Iceland 285 

" Irish 285 

Mouth, Cleansing of, before 

Feeding 77 

Mumps, Diet in ... . 350 

Mushrooms 284 

Mustard 34 

Mutton 145 

Cuts of . . . .148 

" Test for Good . . 145 

Myosin 10, 140 



N. 

Nasal Feeding .... 79 
Nephritic Diet .... 392 
Nervous Disorders, Diet in . 395 
Nitrogen Balance ... 54 
Nursing Bottle . . .415 

Mother, Diet of . 404 
" Schedule for . . 409 

Nut Butters 283 

" Flours 283 

Nutmeg 34 

Nutrition ,.36 

*' Conditions for Per- 
fect 7 

Nutrition, Diet in Disorders 

of 355 

Nuts 283 

" Composition of . . 283 
" Cooking of . . . .283 
" Digestibility of . . 284 
" Nutritive Value of . 284 

0. 

Obesity, Diet in . . . . 370 

Oils 19 

Volatile 21 

Olein 20 

Oranges 277 

Oleomargarin 20 

Onions 264 

Ovariotomy, Diet after . . 399 

Oysters 166 



GENERAL INDEX 



473 



PAGE 

Oysters, Composition of .167 
" Digestibility of . . 167 
" Energy Value of . 169 
" Principles for Cook- 
ing 167 

Oysters, Season for . . .167 
Variety of . . . 168 

P. 

Palmitin 20 

Pancreatic Juiee . 38 

Parsnips 264 

Pasteurisation . .193 

" Apparatus for 194 

Peas (See Legumes). 

Pectin Bodies 277 

Pepper 34 

Pepsin 37 

Action of ... . 37 

Peptogenic Milk Powder in 

Infant Feeding ... 433 

Peptones 37, 39 

Percentage Solutions, Tables 

for Preparing . . 104 

Phosphorus .... 20, 29 
Physicians' Directions for 

Feeding the Sick . 72 

Pineapples 278 

Pneumonia, Alcohol in 349 

Diet in . . 348 

Polysaccharides . 16-19 

Pork . 145 

Potassium . ' 29 

Potatoes 264 

" Energy Value of . 265 

Poultry 152 

Digestibility of . 152 
General Rule of 
Cleaning . . . . 153 
Poultry, Principles of Cook- 
ing 153 

Pregnancy, Diet in . .401 

Prematurity, Feeding in . 440 
Protein, Absorption of . .47 

Acid 38 

« Alkaline ... 39 
" Animal .... 138 
" Cooking of . . . 11 



PAGE 

Protein, Digestion, Table of 39 
" Function of . . 10 
" Vegetable ... 10 

Proteoses 39 

Prunes 278 

Ptomaine Poisoning ... 93 

Ptyalin 40 

Puddings, Bread .... 302 
Punctuality in Serving 

Meals 75 

Purins 11 

Quinsy, Diet 346 

R. 

Radishes 264 

Rectal Feeding . . . 79-83 

*' " Formulae for 82 

" Technique of 81 

Reflex, Pharyngeal ... 41 

" Pyloric .... 38 

Rennin 37 

Rheumatism, Acute, Diet in 368 

Chronic, Diet in 370 

Diet in . . . 370 
Rickets in Infants, Dietetic 

Treatment of . . .441 

Roots 263 

8, 

Saccharin 15 

Salad Dressings .... 272 

Salads 272 

Salsify 264 

Salt (See Sodium Chloride) 34 

Sandwiches 258 

Sauces 33 

Salt Starvation .... 32 
Scurvy, Infantile, Dietetic 

Treatment of .441 

Seasickness, Dietetics of . 402 
Sedentary, Diet of . . . 443 

Shell-Fish 166 

Sherbets 312 

Sick, Feeding the ... 72 



474 



GENERAL INDEX 



FAGl 

Skin Diseases, Diet in . . 396 

Sodium 29 

Sodium Chloride .... 30 

as a Condi- 
ment 34 

Soup 223 

" Accompaniments . 229 

" General Rule for 

Blending 223 

Spices 34 

Spinach . . . . . .265 

Starch 16 

" Cooking of . . .18 

" Description of . 17 

'* Digestion of . .40 

" Food Uses of . . 17 

" Source of ... 17 

" Test for . . . .19 

Starvation Diet .... 334 

Steak, Broiled .... 149 

Steapsin (See Lipase) 

Stearin 20 

Sterilisation 194 

Stirring in Cookery ... 90 

Stomach 36 

" Fimdus of . . .37 
" Pyloric Sphincter of 38 
" Tube, Use of . .79 

Strontium 32 

Sucrase 42 

Sugar 13 

" Dietetic Uses of . . 15 
" Digestion of . . .42 

" Invert 277 

" of Milk (See Lac- 
tose). 
Sugar Starvation .... 357 
" Substitutes for . . 15 
" Tests for .... 16 
" Use of in Cookery . 15 

Sulphur 29 

Surgical Cases, Dietetic 

Management of . . . 397 

Sweetbreads 200 

" Definition of . 200 

" Digestibility of 200 

" Energy Value of 201 

Sweetina 15, 110 

Syntonin 10 



PAGE 

T. 

Tallow 20 

Tea 127 

** Active Principles of . 127 
" Effects of .... 128 

Thermometry 106 

Top Milk Method . . .416 

Toast 255 

Tubers (See Roots) ... 263 
Tuberculosis, Diet in . .351 
Turnips 264 

U. 

Ulcer, Gastric, Diet in . . 376 

Massachusetts Genl 

Hospital 379 

Unconscious, Feeding the 78^ 

Uric Acid Excess (See 

Lithsemia). 
Utensils, Disinfection of 84 



V. 

Veal 144 

" Test for Good ... 145 

Vegetables 261 

" Digestibility of . 262 

" Composition of . 261 

" Green .... 265 
" Principles of 

Cooking ..... 262 
Vegetable Sauces . .271 

Vinegar 34 

Viscera, Animal, Food Uses 

of 144 

Vomiting, Diet in . . . 402 
in Young Chil- 
dren, Dietetic Treatment 

of 438 

Wafers 260 

Water 23 



GENERAL INDEX 



475 



Water, Absorption of 
Alkaline . 
Boiled 
Carbonated 
Classification of 
Composition of 
Distilled . 
Drinking . 
Filtered . 
Food Uses of 
Functions of . 
Hard . . . 
in Animal Food 
Properties of 
Rain . 
Soft . . . 
Sources of 
Spring 
Temperature of 



« 
i€ 
tt 
tt 
*t 
*t 
tt 
tt 
tt 
«» 
tt 
4t 
*t 
4t 
4t 
4t 



PAGE 
49 

28 
27 
27 
25 
23 
27 
25 
26 
25 
24 
25 
139 
23 
26 
25 
24 
26 
28 



tt 



it 



PAGE 

Water, Well 26 

Weaning 410 

Weight Development of In 
fant. Computation of , 
Weights .... 
Table of 
Apothecaries 
Wet Nurse 

" Diet of . 

Whey 

Whey-made Formulae 
Whey Mixtures, Method 

Calculating . 
Whooping Cough, Diet in 



for 



429 
98 
99 
100 
407 
404 
190 
424 

428 
351 



Zwieback 19 



INDEX TO 
PURE FOODS — SUPPLIES FOR THE DIET- 
KITCHEN — SUPPLIES FOR THE 

SICK-ROOM 



U 



Good nutrition depends upon pure and healthful food/^ 
There is no subject which should more engross attention 
than the purity of the preparations that are used in the va- 
rious compounds for the human stomach, and in the sick- 
room. 

A. F. P. 



A Drink in Fevers 



1 



A teaspoon of Horsfofd's Acid Phos- 
phate added to a glass of cold water 
makes a cooling and refreshing acidulous 
drink for the patient during convalescence 
from typhoid and other febrile conditions. 

Its superiority over Dilute Phosphoric 
Acid, or any other acid, is due to the fact 
that it contains the phosphates of cal- 
cium, sodium, magnesium and iron, which 
means increased nutrition. 

Horsford^s Acid Phosphate 

is more palatable and strengtbening tban 
lemonade, lime Juice, or any otber acidulous 
drink. 



If jour druggist cannot supply you we will send 
small bottle prepaid on receipt of 85 cents 



RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS 

Providence^ R. K 



478 



BORDEN'S 

EAGLE BRAND 
Condensed Milk 



Is a safe food for Infants,. It 
is half a century past the ex- 
perimental stage* Ttu Best 
for Nursery and Household. 



BORDEN'S CONDENSED 
MILK COMPANY 

'Tetdcn of Qiulltr^ &UbliiEi«I t857 



JUNKET 

^^ Perfect Milk Food 



JUNKET TABLETS contain absolulely nothing 
but the pure Rennet Ferment and a httle pure table 
salt. No chemicals whatever enter into their 
manufacture. 

Ideal for the preparation of WHEY, MODIFIED 
or HUMANIZED MILK, JUNKET PUDDINGS 
and ICE CREAM in endless variety. 



JnnKet Brand BnttermilK Tablets 

Compressed Lactic Ferment Culture prepared at 
(he bacteriological department of Chr. Hansen's 
Laboratory, Copenhagen, Denmark. 

Converts sugar of milk into lactic acid, rendering 

the milk palatable and healthful, and a preventive and 

curative for many intestinal disorders. 

15 tablets in a vial, asc 

75 tablets in a package, $1.00. 

At all druggists, or by mail direct from the 
manufacturers. 

CHR. HANSEN'S LABORATORY 

Box 1709 9 9 LlttU F&IU. N. Y. 



480 



Infant Feeding 



P XCEPT that derived from the healthy mother's breast, the 
^ best food for an infant is the milk of healthy cows, if 
these animals receive proper food and care. 

■pVERY common-sense detail that it is possible to observe 
^ is practiced in Dr. Brush's milk dairy. Nothing but 
the whole grist of the best grain— no refuse of any description 
— is used as food. All the care and 
attention to the cows is given with an 
intelligent desire to produce good milk. 

IT is delivered in New York City at 15 
' cents per quart ; orders addressed to 
me will receive prompt attention. 
E. F. BRUSH, M.D., 

Mount Vernon, N. Y. 



THERE are few useful products that have been 
more numerously and less successfully imi- 
tated than 

"BRUSH'S KUMYSS" 

THE same word, often the same lettering as directions 
on the label, the same colored ink, and sometimes 
a device that imitates closely the trade-mark, may cover 
a base imitation. 

Only the word " BRUSH " will make your order 

definite, 

482 



The 
ivalescent 

ivlio has subsided long 
jpon fluids inu£t resume 
solid diet with care, and 
the capricious af^tite mufl 
be appealed to with an at- 
tradlive, dain^, yet nutri- 
sh like 

lELL-0 

irepared from pure crystal 

id sugar. 

is cool and spaikling and 

' the patient. As a result 

Jogical and physiological 
the glandular and gastric 
are stimulated, to the ea- 

mt of a normal appetite 

ion. 

is not only a dish for the 

oDvalescent but is a delic- 

rt for everybody. 

>e prepared in a minute. 

maallli, lOdst a packmge* 

SEE PURE FOOD COHPANT, 

.. T.r and Bricteetnus, Canada. 



FOR SICK OR WELL 

MINUTE TAPIOCA 

IS EQUALLY GOOD 

It is made from only the most carefully 
selected material. 

It is prepared under the most favorable 
conditions — by skilled employees in a factory 
perfect as regards light, ventilation and sani- 
tation. 

It requires no soaking, and with it can be 
prepared in a few minutes any one of an al- 
most endless variety of delightful desserts. 

Try the recipes for Minute Tapioca in this 
book. If you want to know more ways of 
preparing it, write us for our free Minute 
Cook Book. 

Ask your grocer for Minute Tapioca and 
take no other. Look for the red Minute Man 
on the package. 

MINUTE TAPIOCA COMPANY 

193 W. Main St., Orang*, Mass. 



484 



PEPTONISING TUBES 

FAIRCHILD 

By means of the Peptonising Tubes — Fairchild — and the 
Fairchild peptonising process, foods which are adequate for the 
nourishment of the healthy and vigorous are adapted to the 
weakened digestive functions of the sick. 

Peptonised milk, peptonised milk gruel, etc., are genuine 
foods, and resources of well-known value in the nutrition of 
the sick, convalescents, invalids and dyspeptics. 

PANOPEPTON 

Panopepton presents in a highly agreeable solution the two 
great types of food, beef and wheat, freed from innutritions 
and indigestible substance, peptonised and ready for assimi- 
lation. 

Panopepton has a fixed standard of composition, in which 
the ratio of protein to carbohydrate has been carefully con- 
sidered, is uniform, absolutely sterile, contains no chemical 
preservative and no cane sugar. 

PEPTOGENIC MILK POWDER 

FOR PREPARING MILK FOR INFANTS 

Peptogenic Milk Powder not only adjusts cows' milk to the 
percentage composition of normal mothers' milk, but goes 
further, and makes the casein soluble and non-coagulable like 
the albuminoids of mothers' milk — the crucial point in advance 
of every other method of modification. 

The Peptogenic Milk Powder and Process were introduced 
in 1884. 

ESSENCE OF PEPSINE 

FAIRCHILD 

Essence of Pepsine — Fairchild — is a true extract of the gas- 
tric juice, obtained by direct extraction from the secreting 
glands; contains the enzymes, and has the digestive and seda- 
tive properties of the gastric juice; useful in the digestive dis- 
orders of adults and infants and for making junket and whey. 

Junket and whey, as prepared with Essence of Pepsine — 
Fairchild— are infused with the gratefully stomachic qualities of 
the Essence, and are therefore peculiarly valuable under the condi- 
tions in which these foods are indicated. 

FAIRCHILD BROS. & FOSTER ^^Sl 

485 




Choicest Concord Grapes 

Welcli's Grape Juice contains no alcohol, preserva- 
tive or chemical of any kind. The expressed juice of 
the full-ripe grapes is steriliEcd without delay and 
hermetically sealed in glass. When rebottled in the 
usual sizes it ie again sterilised. 

Welch's Grape Juice is a splendid temperance bev- 
erage. It is in no way a stimulant, but possesses the 
dietetic value of fresh Concord grapes. It is of spe- 
cial value in convalescence, particularly from fevers. 

literature free. Sample 3 oz. bottle by mail, 10c. 

Sold by druggists and grocers everywhere. 
BUT BE SURE TO GET WELCH'S. 
jTHE_WELCH GRAPE JUICE CO„ Westfleld, N. V. 



A Delicious, Nourishing Diet 

in the Sick Room and 

Hospital Ward 

Selected recipes will be found in 
this book for preparing original 
delicacies from Horlick's Malted 
Milk, that will not feil to tempt 
the appetite of fastidious invalids. 

Samples senc, free and prepaid, 
upon request. 


Spedfj •'Horlick's- Malud Milk, the original 
and only genuine. Others are imitatiens. 


HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO. 
RACINE, WIS.. U. S. A. 



Hoyt's 6uin Gluten 



HOW PROCURED 

As a rule, the leading grocer in a city is agent for Oum 
Gluten. If not easily procured, write to the manufacturers. The 
Pure Oluten Pood Co., 90 West Broadway, New York, for name 
of the nearest agent, and their latest literature on Oluten. 

THE PURE FOOD LAW 

U, 8. Standard for OJttfcn.— "GLUTEN FLOUR is the product 
made from flour by the removal of starch, and contains not less 
than five and six-tenths (6.6) per cent, of Nitrogen, and not less 
than ten (10) per cent, of Moisture." 

NOTE.— Using the factor, 6.25, usually employed by the U. S. 
Government chemists. Standard Gluten Flour must, therefore, 
show at least thirty-flve (35) per cent, protein. 

is guaranteed to be much richer in 
protein than the Government Stand- 
ard prescribes. 

The increase of diabetes among young children is noteworthy; 
that it may be due to the increased use of malted and dextrinized 
cereal foods, at a time when the digestive organs are not pre- 
pared to digest them, is very probable. 

Cow's milk differs from mother's milk in that the casein of 
cow's milk coagulates as soon as it reaches the stomach and 
comes in contact with the rennet ferment, into a cheese-like mass, 
which is not easily broken up and digested by the delicate stomach 
of the infant; while the casein of mother's milk forms a flaky 
coagula, which is easily penetrated by the digestive Juices. To 
prevent cow's milk from coagulating into a cheese-like mass, 
various food substances are added. Hoyt's Gum Gluten Flour is 
especially suited to this purpose. 

Hoyt's Gum Gluten resembles milk in that its chief element 
is nitrogenous, and of the same inuscle-forming character as 
casein, and require essentially the same ferments for their proper 
digestion. 

When impossible for an infant to retain other food in the 
stomach, Hoyt's Gum Gluten Flour, made into a gruel, may be 
retained, and give strength, after which milk and milk-sugar 
may be added. 

GUM GLUTEN BISCUIT CRISPS 

are most delicate and nutritious— a popular and convenient form 
of Gluten. 

Higher in protein than any other biscuit or cracker on the 
market. More nourishing than meat, without the heat and fat- 
producing qualities. Invaluable when a child requires some kind 
of a biscuit or cracker; also for adults when a starch restricted 
diet is required. 

Send 2c. stamp for sample box of Crisps and complete price 
list, etc. 

SWEETINA 

A bottle will be mailed to any address upon receipt of 25c. 



PURE GLUTEN FOOD CO. 

90 WEST BROADWAY, NEW YORK 



488 



OLIVE OIL 

"It ii our opinion the analylical tests of the UNITED STATES 
BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY prove NICELLE OUVE OIL 
supetiot to all known brands tested." StillwcU & Gladding 
Chcfnisla to New Yoik Produce Exchangi. 

Its Use Rccomneaded bj 

Miw ALIDA FRANCIS PATTEE Mi*s CORNELIA C. BEDFORD 
Miss FANNIE MERRIT FARMER Miss JANET MACKENZIE HILL 
Miss HELEN ARMSTRONG M.ss ANNA BARROWS 



NICELLE OLIVE OIL COMPANY 

OF PIM-OLA FAME NEW YORK 

489 



FLEISCHMANN'S 

COMPRESSED YEAST 

HAS NO EQUAL 



490 











For Upwards of Forty 
Years the Use of 



B fellows Syrup of H 






B 




fiypopbospbites 

ha* beoi reconunended bjr the 

Leading Medical Specialists 
in all Countries 




^ 




f% ; ^^x^WortMess Substitutes 
^^^^^^^Preparations ''Just as Good 





4yi 












MODERN DIETETICS considers not only 
the potential value of f ood - stufiEs, but 
their actual nutrient content. 

Liquid Peptonoids 



NUTRie)4T AQENT 


Total 
Solids 


Protein 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Fat 


Ash 


water 


Milk 

Buttermilk 

Whey 

Beef Juice 

Beef Tea 

Barley Water .... 
£gg Albumen Water 

Liquid Peptonoids . 


% 
12.8 

9.0 

7.0 

4.28 

3.72 

0.23 

1.5 

20.0 


% 
3.5 

3.0 

1.0 

2.19 

1.02 

0.09 

1.5 

5.25 


% 

4.9 
4.8 
5.0 

• • 

6.06 

• • 

13.8 


% 
3.7 

0.5 

0.3 

« • 

0.05 

Alcohol 
17.5 


% 
0.7 

0.7 

0.7 

2.09 

2.7 

0.03 

• • 

0.95 


% 
87.2 

91.0 

93.0 

95.72 

96.28 

99.77 

98.5 

62.5 



Dry Peptonoids 

(Soluble) 

is a highly concentrated food, every particle of 
which is of nutrient value. It dissolves freely in 
any fluid used as food, and is of agreeable flavor. 
It contains no extractive or waste material. 

Both preparations are, therefore, of great ser- 
vice to the nurse, both as Emergency Nutrients 
in Acute Diseases and Auxiliary Food Tonics 
during Convalescence or in Cachectic or Debil- 
itated Conditions. 



Sample* to Nuroe9 on requeBt 



THE ARLINGTON CHEMICAL CO. 

Yonkers, N. Y, 

493 



WHY IS 

Scott's Emulsion 

THE BEST IN THE WORLD? 

BECAUSE it is made of the purest and 

best ingredients obtainable. 
BECAUSE it contains MORE healing, 

strengthening and up-building material 

than any other Emulsion. 
BEICAUSE it is a perfect product of a 

scientifically perfect process. 
BECAUSE there is no alcohol or other 

harmful ingredient in it. 

BECAUSE every drop of it is clean, pure 





and healthfuL 


FOR 




BECAUSE it is 


Anemia 






and 
Loss of 




by more phy- 


Flesh, 




sicians than 


Coughs 
Colds 




any other 


Lung and 
Chest 




preparation of 




Cod Liver Oil. 


Troubles 



For these, and other reasons, it 
has become the standard through- 
out the world. 



Perfect Circulation- 

And Absence of Odors 

in your refrigerator is only possible by using 
the Bohn Syphone System, It insures a rapid 
and unobstructed circulation of cold, dry air, 
enabling you to keep butter and milk In the 
same compartment with cantaloupe or onions, 
without contamination. The 

BOHN SYPHON 
REFRIGERATOR 

has been proven superior to all others only 
after eevere tests. All the great railroads, 
hotels H.nd restaurants use it. They know 
what Is best. No scrubbing necessary to keep 
it clean. Just wipe with a damp cloth. No 
Inaccessible pipes, crevices or Blots, no dark 
) hold germs. 



GENUINE "VITREOUS" 
Porcelain Enamel Lining 



applied by lock Joint, making practically a one- 
piece lining. The glossy white surface of the 
enamel will never discolor, crack or peel 
off. A low and uniform temperature Is 
assured always with the least con- 
sumption of ice. 

VBITE ENAMEL 

REFRIGERATOR CO. 

OF nV YORK 

59 W. 42ii Street^ 

NEW YORK 

St. Paul. Mtnn. . 



the 



SLICED 

CRUSHED 

i GRATED 



Packed the 
day it is 
picked on 
the field 
where it 
grows in the 
highest state 
of pineapple 
perfection. 

EAT ALL THE HAWAIIAN PINE- 
APPLE YOU WANT— its good for you 
— wholesome and digestible. Serve the Sliced as 
a fruit course for any meal; try it as a breakfast 
fruit; use it for desserts — for there is nothing in 
a can of Hawaiian Pineapple that isn't pure and 
healthful, and the fruit is the choicest pineapple 
in the world — the best of Hawaiia's crop. If 
your grocer hasn't it send his name for booklet 
of pineapple recipes. 
1130 TRIBUNE BUILDING NEW YORK CITY 



GOOD THINGS TO EAT 

THAT ARE 

HOME MADE 

PRESERVES, MARMALADES, PICKLES, 
RELISHES, JELLIES, MINCE MEAT, 
PLUM PUDDING. 



This Kitchen is under the personal supervis- 
ion of Miss Chivvis, who assures the public that 
only the purest and best goods are used in her 
establishment. 



SPECIALTIES 

GINGER PEARS, GRAPE CONSERVE, 
SPANISH PICKLE. CENTURY RELISH. 



Special prices to Hospitals^ Hotels^ Clubs^ etc. 



F*rice list furnlstieci on application. 



C. E. CHIWIS, - - MOUNT YERNON, NEW YORK 



496 



TttERAPEUTiC APPLtCATIOK OF GUM GLUTEN 

Dyspepsia, Gastritis, etc.— Being non-fermentative and 
quickly reduced by the digestive fluids, Gum Gluten is a food 
in perfect harmony with the action of the stomach and can 
be eaten in the form of gruel. 

Convalescence.— As Gum Gluten is remarkably rich in 
nucleo-albumen and all other cell-building material, it is 
capable of greatly quickening and intensifying the integrat- 
ing processes of cell life and giving impulsive energy and 
force in the revival of the system to its normal metabolism. 

Rheumatism, Gout and Uric Acid Diathesis.— Being non- 
acid making and non-fermenting, and digested by the action of 
the stomach. Gum Gluten has a distinct specific value in all 
rheumatic conditions. 

Obesity.— As Gum Gluten is the muscle-building element of 
wheat, it is the rational unfailing cure of this uncomfortable 
condition. 

Diabetes Mellitus.— Gum Gluten can be made into bread and 
a great variety of dishes, and is the most satisfactory substi- 
tute for the wheat flour bread or bread in common use, and 
the effects are particularly noticeable in the reduction of sugar 
in the daily tests. 

Other Conditions.— All ansBmic and chlorotic conditions due 
to an insuflicient supply of red blood corpuscles or lack of 
haemoglobin, or both, and more remotely to a disordered nutri- 
tion, are furnished the one thing needed by Gum Gluten. 

For Nursing Mothers.— It enriches the lacteal secretions. 

For Infants* Food.— To increase the amount of protein it 
should be freely used. 

For the expectant mother it supplies the prenatal aliment 
par excellence, since it is rich in all those elements which 
serve to maintain the nutritive system at its best. 

For the Aged, the Enfeebled, the Invalid, and all whose 
vital powers are waning. Gum Gluten will be found a most 
wholesome, sustaining and helpful food. In its blood-making 
property it restores to the system the loss which has resulted 
in enervation and decline. 



PURE GLUTEN FOOD CO. 

90 WEST BROADWAY 

NEW YORK 

497 



Books thfU Mvery Woman Should Possess . 

KNOW THYSELF SERIES 

TWELVE BOOKS 

BY 

SUSANNA COCROFT 

NO WORK HAS HERETOFORE BEEN PUBLISHED, EXCEPT THE 
TEXT-BOOK PHYSIOLOGY, WHICH GIVES SO INTELLIGENT A SCIEN- 
TIFIC KNOWLEDGE OF THE MECHANISM AND WORKINGS OF THE 
HUMAN BODY. THE VITAL FUNCTIONS ARE NOT ONLY EXPLAINED 
IN THESE LECTURES, BUT ALL VITAL ORGANS ILLUSTRATED BY 
COLORED PLATES. 

MISS COCROFT BELIEVES THAT ALL THE QUALITIES THAT 
MAKE A WOMAN WELL, WHOLESOME, MAGNETIC AND ATTRACTIVE 
ARE HERS IF SHE USES THE INTELLIGENCE GIVEN TO HER, AND IN 
HER LECTURES SHE POINTS THE WAY. THEY VITALLY CONCERN 
EVERY WOMAN AND ARE THE CLEAREST, MOST COMPLETE HANDLING 
OF THE SUBJECTS WHICH PERTAIN TO THE HEALTH OF WOMAN AND 
THE HAPPINESS OF HOME. 

GROWTH IN SILENCE* 

POISE AND SYMMETRY OF nOURE. (Obesity and Leanness.) 

IDEALS AND PRIVILEGES OF WOMAN. 

CIRCULATION— Heart and Lungs. 

BODY MANIKIN. 

CHARACTER— As Ezpresed in the Body. (Ultsstrated.) 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM— Effect of Habit upon Life. 

SELF^UFFIOENCY— Mental Poise. 

MOTHERHOOD.— The Generative Organs. 

THE VITAL ORGANS— Liver, Stomach, Intestines and Kidneys, 

their Use and Abuse. 

BEAUTY— Hair, Eyes, Teeth, Hands, Fea and Ears. 

FOODS— Nutritive Value and Digestibility. 

Twelve books bound separately in pure white, cream and brown heavy art, 
deckle-edfire paper, $4.00. Single copies, 40 cents— except Body Manikin, 
which is 50 cents. 

Bound in brown flexible leatherette cover, $6.50. Single copies, 60 cents. 



A. F. PATTEE 

MEDICAL PUBLISHER AND BOOKSELLER 
MX. TERNON, N, Y. 

498 



Doctors 

Proscribe 

Nursos 

Rocommond 

Patch's Puro 

Steriiizeil 

Sugar of Milk 

WHY? 

'Because they realize the impor- 
tance of using the best that can be obtained 
in the market. A Milk Sugar free from 
acids, alkaline earths, casein residues, fer- 
ment germs and other faulty contamina- 
tions. The cans are thoroughly cleansed 
and sterilized, and tightly sealed. It starts 
right, it keeps right, and many years of 
experience has convinced careful observers 
that Patch's is THE Sugar of Milk. 
The E. L. Patch Co., Boston, Mass. 

Manufacturers of a Full Line of Pharmaceuticals. 



"GOOD NUTRITION DEPENDS" 

. also upon COOKING. The cook 

will elways transmnte even the 
plainest of foods into tempting 
delicacies if the Kitchen contaiiiB 
* THE SEELT BANITABY 
FIRELESS OOOKEB. 

I\K)D Is boiled butsfewralnnMaontlw 



Bo. 4.1 


MBATS-nralE 
Hills .Bight an 

J«. AlumlixinKHUu.rHdilia. fc^^? '™*"" ' 
vMUBTABUra 
InaliinlDeislaalu. 
KD VEGKTABLlfSbionRbC Wtbe boll aod pip. 


Cbeir JnIMB, 1MB bnt 

an BEbroken In sbape 
ned In the Cooksr eqnal 


'Wp 


«i'NVBH0TS3a» 


cliloconoBnuaMil eoodneM with one-Wqth the 


'ti 

perteoi 


ALiTaND STARCH' 

HyRolTs'!j5iX'.'p 

OANDHVAI'OKATK 

len waDWd and nerte 
SAVINU In luel and 

liaTliigsuiamappant 


FO0I>S an ai dBllcloui ai denerw and expand 
D (THUlTa BwBll to their original >lie, fnU and 


Ti£ 


CookBr pitra for Itacl 


In K ftw weclu. 


"ViS 


SKKLT "aNITA 


RY FIBKLBSa 





THE FRANCES A. SEELY CO. 

S800 ROSALIB COURT, CHKAOO, ILL. 

PHYSICIANS AND NURSES 
will find the Cooker Inralnable both 
for their own use and those under 
their care. Special terms to those v-.- 
answering this advertisement. ^'"^ 



CRACKED ICE KEPT CONTINUOUSLY 

at band and pTaotloallT wltknnt _<-mnB la THH SEBLT (UmTABT 
tBLU COOLKH. FInt made br request or a large bosplcal and foand 



Dr. JOHNSON'S 

EDUCATOR 
CRACKERS 



START LIFE RIGHT BY PROVIDING THE 



FOOD RING FOR TEETHING INFANTS 

Follow this with a variety of EDUCATOR 
CRACKERS which form a perfect cereal diet 
for young and old, well and ill. 



JOHNSON EDUCATOR FOOD CO. 

IDITOI NEW TORK FHILIDELPHM FRDIFIDENCE lEmURIPORT 



Gingham for Nnrses' Uniforms 



A. F. PATTEE 
134 South First Avenue Mount Venion, ^. V. 



Get f^id of the Dust 



The medical profession Is screed 
that dust sod dirt are the com- 
monest sources of disease. 

The germ-laden dust Is eveTf' 
I Where — even the cleanest hospital 
!• not exempt. The on); means 
lor Its complete aanlbllatloD Is 
vacuum cleaQlng. 

Man; Tscuom cleaners have been 
deTlsed, but the one perfect clean- 
er — recognlied everywhere as the 
Standard a( eicellence — la the port- 
able electric 



The Santo combines botb a high, even 
and continuous suction with s large volume Ol 
air. It Is the oalr cleaner hsvlug both suction 
snd volume which Is necessary for thorough 

It niDs wUhouC vibration and less noise tban 
a llght-runnlQK sewing machlue. Use It In hos- 
pital or Blck-room without the slightest annoy- 
snce to the patient. 

and dirt from all the fumlBblngs, floors and 
woodwork. aeratCB bedding, etc. It puts an end 
to sweeping and dusting. Cnst to operate, less 

Weight only EiO lbs. Complete tool eQuipment 



a Home," whlcb 



I^ellep in«nutoGtafing Co.. &ept. P,t>. 

Pbliadaipbi* 



20tli Anaiversary Annottocemeat 



OP THE 



Home Bttreatt^ Medical House 

1890-1910 

To 

Doctors^ Nurses 
Hospitals^ and the Public 

The Home Bureau-Medical House, as evidence 
of the steady and rapid growth it has enjoyed 
since its inception twenty years ago, begs to 
submit the following facts : 

In 1890 started with:— 

No Capital — i Room 

J Employee — 6 Quarts of Broth 

500 Booklets for Advertising: 

In 1910 has:— 

Incorporated Co. Medical Hotise^ 

Largfe Building: — 30 Employees^ Extensive Diet Kitchen, 

Larg:est Reg:istry Nurses in World, 

Surgical Dressings, Supplies, Obstetrical Sets, 

District Nurses' Bags, Invalid Furniture, Invalids Moved, 

Houses Disinfected, Rest Cure Apartments, 

50,000 Booklets for Advertising* 

504 




Physicians', Nurses and 
Mothers' Headquarters for 
all necessities of the bosfrital, 
sicli room and nursery. 



you a copy of our 
Bookletwhich g;ives full 
concerning the work 
Bureau-Medical ffouse. 



MEDIOAIi HOUKE 



Home Bareao-Medical Hoose 

52 West 39th Street 
New York 

Td. 406-407-40S-40V Murray Hill. 



MBDICAI. HOUSB 



THE 

PEHNSYLVMIA ORTHOPAEDIC INSTITUTE 

AND 

SCHOOL OF MECHANO -THERAPY 

(Incorporated) 

1711 Green Street Philadelphia Pa. 

OFFERS TO NURSES 
SGIKBrriFIO CJOVKSSa ih msghajiigai^ tksatments 

Course in Medical Massage 

Swedish Mo-vementa, Medical and Ortbopaedle G-yamastles 

Term: 3 Months Tuition Fee, $75.00 

Course in Electro-Therapy 

Term: 2 Months Tuition Fee, $26.00 

Course in Hydro-Therapy In all its forms 

Term: 6 Weeks • Tuition Fee, $30.00 

Classes opes In January, Hareli, Hay, July, September, and NoTember. 

All courses may be commenced at the same time and finished within 
three months. The instruction consists of daily clinical work and 
practical lessons on patients referred to our clinics from the various 
Hospital Dispensaries. Lectures and Quizzes on Anatomy, Physiology 
and Pathology by Physicians of the staff. Demonstrations and 
Instruction in the use of all mechanical apparatus. Complete Medico- 
Mechanical Zander Gymnasium. 

Original Swedish (Ling) system, and Weir Mitchell's Rest-Cure 
system. All pupils attend clinics at several city hospitals. Payments 
can be made to suit your convenience. Particulars and illustrated 
booklet on Massage upon request. An •arly application for admission la 
advisable. A diploma is awarded at the end of the term. 

STAFF OF IH8TKX7GTOKP 

WM. BOBBRT ROBERTSON, M.D. (Professor of Medicine, Temple 

University). 
HOWARD T. KARSNER, M.D. \ (Instructors University of Pennsyl- 
HOWARD A. SUTTON, M.D. f vania). 

ELDRIDGE L. ELIASON, M.D. (Instructor University of Penna.) 
LPUIS H. A. VON COTZHAUSEN, Ph.G., M.D. (Graduate Phila. 

College of Pharmacy, Med. Dept. University of Penna., Penna. 

OrthopsBdic Institute). 
WM. ERWIN, M.D. (Hahnemann and Rush Med. Col.) 
MAX J. WALTER (Univ. of Penna., Royal Univ., Breslau, Germany, 

and lecturer to St. Joseph's, St. Mary's, Philadelphia General 

Hospital (Blockley), Mount Sinai and W. Phila. Hosp. for Women, 

Cooper Hosp., etc.) 
HELENE BONSDORFF (Gym., Ins.. Stockholm, Sweden). 

EDITiF W KNIGHT^^^ } (Pennsylvania Orthopssdic InsUtute). 
MARGARET A. ZABEL (German Hospital, Philadelphia, Penna. Ortho- 
paedic Institute). 

For all further information^ especially date of opening of classes^ address the 
Sutcr,nUn<Unt. ^^^ ^ WAI,t™. .opt, 

506 



Coward 

Shoe 




Welcome Support 

to the tired and sagging muscles of the 
arch is given by the Coward Arch Prop 
Shoe, which provides natural and adequate 
support to the weakened ligaments. 

The special construction of the shoe holds 
the arch up into place, relieves the ache 
and restores strength and tone to the foot 
structure. 



SOLD NOWHERE ELSE 

JAMES S. COWARD 

264-274 Greenwich St., N. Y. 

(near warren street) 

Mail Orders Filled | Send for Catalogue 

507 



There M\ist be 
ac R, e Qc s o n ! 

Visible Writing 



Visible Keyboard 

The Model 10 Smith Premier 
Typewriter w&s awarded the 

FIRST GRAND PRIZE 
over all other writing mak- 
chines at the Exposition Unl- 
verselle. Brussels 1910. ^ 

Write for literature concerning the special 
machine we are building for the medical 

profession. : i : : ; 

G6ff Smith Premier Typewriter Co. 
319 Bro»dwa.y. cor. Thoinb.9 St.. New York City 



The BEST WORK PUBLISHED for 
HOSPITAL INTERNES and 

SURGICAL NURSES 



THE SURGICAL ASSISTANT 

(SECOND EDITION) 

BY 

WALTER M. BRICKNER, B.S., M.D. 

Assistant Adjunct Surgeon, Mount Sinai Hospital, New 

York, and Chief in Surgical Out-patient Department; 

Surgeon to N. Y. Sanitarium for Hebrew Children. 



The Most Comprehensive Manual on Operating Room 

Technic and Methods. 

It is replete with definite instructions, useful hints and valuable "wrinkles" not 
elsewhere set down in print. 
It details : 

The G-eneral Gondnct of the AMilstAiktt the Internet AjMilst»nee nt 
DreaslnsB. Frnetnre Kednctlons* ete. Preparation oCnn Operating 
Soom. The Teehnle of Asepsis In all Its Practical Bearings. Prep- 
aration or the Patient. The Anesthetist. Preservation and Sterili- 
sation of Instruments and Aeeessortes. Fomtnlas and Methods of 
Snrffleal Stertllsatlmt. Ho^r to **IIand" Instruments. Technics of 
Assistance In the Tartons Operatl-vo Manipulations. Immediate 
After-Cnre ot the Patient. Fomtnlae of Solutions, etc. Instruments 
and Accessories (and their preparation) fbr each operation, etc.* etc. 



The on/y book that is devoted to the methods and duties of those who ASSIST 
the surgeon^ and contains descriptions of all the important operations, step by 
sXisg^from the assistant's standpoint, 

BtuBil lo Cloth, 363 Pages. Priet, $2.00 Poilpaid. 128 OriglMl IHuftratl>PS. 

ADDRESS 

INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SURGERY COMPANY 

lledicai Piblishers 

100 WILLIAM STREET, REN TOOK, U. S. A. 



icUic^^^^^^ 



"CURES WHILE YOU SLEEP" 



VtPOmZER 
IS SIX 
mCHES 
HISH 



Treatmeat without tntornal medlcatioD is highlr desirable 
in WhoopiasConghandCronp.particulBrlyintheTerFroaliB. In 
the use of vaporized Creaoleue aacb a method la aiailable. For 
thirty rears Cresdlene has beeo used as a remedy for Croup and 
Whooping Cough vitb great soccees, and is becomiag mora and 
more popular with phjeioians.in the treatment and preTBattonot 
Ueasles, Scarlet Fever. Diphtheria and Bronchitis. 

Labocntory testa show that vaporized Cresolene destrofs the 
gerioof Dipbtheria; also a one percent. Bolatlon of Cresolene with 
water kills the germs of Diphtheria. Typhoid Fever and Pna, at 
once. Thus the value of Cresolene rests upon the tact of Its great 
germicidal power and the method of treatment. 

For sale by all Druggists. Literature on application. 

THE VAPO-GRESOLENE CO., 180 FULTON ST., NEW YORK. 

Kmlng-HllHBullillt, HoilTMl, CuuU, 




HOSPITALS desiring dietitians 
can secure the services of grad- 
uates from leading Schools of 
Household Arts by applying to 
us. Prompt attention given to 
request and no charge is made 
for this service. 

DIETITIANS desiring hospital 
positions are invited to register 
with 

A. F. PATTEE 

134 South First Avenue, 
Mt. Vernon, New York 



511 



QUILTED 
MATTRESS PADS 



AN acknowledged Insnry for the bed. and endorsed 
by phjsicians for the nursery and for obHtetriCttl 
pnrposeB. These pads are made of bleached 
white mndln, both mdee qnilted, with white wadding 
of the bflflt grade between- 



Keeps bed clean and sweet, mattress in a sanitary con- 
dition. Restful to sleep on. Saves labor and money. 
Babies can be kept dry and in oomfort. Easily washed. 
Send for Sample, llado in fourteen sizes. The pop- 
ular sizes are: 18x34, S7s40. 86x76, 43x76. 54x78. 
FOR SALE IN DRYGOODS STORES 



B/?e Excelsior Quilting Co. 

15 LAIGHT STREET NEW YORK CITY 



A Supporter in Harmony vHth JUoilem Surt/ery 

The ^'Storm" Binder and Abdominal Supporter 

PMantad July 10, lOOp 

The "Storm" Binder and Ah- 
'dommal Sopporter is light 
(5 «.), flexible, washable and 
durable, aLd witbont steel or 
rubber Id ita construction. Itis 
naed for any purpose tor which 
an abdominal supporter may be 

ohild. It is perfeotlj; adapted 

for fcneral support, and by the 

speeisl application of the rein- 

; fonting strap with I 



I for 



s tec 



lia. It ia espeoiall; valuable 

I tor movable kidney and for re- 

laiatlon with ptosis of stomach, 

liver or intestines, giilng rise to 

symptoms of pain and obstinate 

a Post OperatlTa Binder It has no superior tor comtort and efi- 

y, and may be adapted to the upper, middle, lower or lateral ab- 
nal reffions. thns making it an ideal 
it after operationa upon the kidney. 



" Binder i 



imfor 



ir pelvi. 



Illustrated folder giving styles, prices 
and diagram for measuriiig and partial 
list of physicians using "Storm" Binder 
sent Du reqnest. All mall orders filled 

No Whalabenas— No Ruhbar Elaatii 
Washabia as Undarwaar — It Support* with Comfort 
The Invention which took the priza offered by the.Maaanrs.of ,tlw 
Woman'* lloepflal of Phliaildplil^ - 

KITUERINE L. STORM, M.D. 

IjtrMt PhilBddpU* 

Knee Hours, Iff to 4, and by appointment 



Man's Belt, Front View 



L«ath*r 



leii Dlaaii 



61o 



fi 



hUanil-l-Holil 

I f BABE HITS 

AW THEIR OSES. 
£CjZ£]VLA,, SCRATCHING. 

THUMB SUCKING, 
LEFT HANDEDNESS,,, 
NAIL BITING.n 



"HAND 



l-HOLD" ^V INVALUABLE IN 

BABE HITS \ Tjn«IP TTAL 
are light-weight, \H O S P 1 i A 1- 
daintily enamelled balls.N. SERVICE, 
spunwithoul seam from aI-\ 
uminum, TheyarevenUlated \ET. ^■■•. r. i.\.. 

and have sleeves of wash fabric.^ ' 

The hands are confined In the balls, which makes It 
\ absolutely Impossible ior the child to scratch, suck 
\ his thumb, bile his finger nails, or pick at bandages. 
\i Yet It is all done so gently and humanely that the 
\ child Is made happy by their use, for his arms, 
/^l wrist and fingers are practically free from restraint. P^ 
\f^ So sure are we of results that we guarantee saUs- M 
\ faction or refund your money. Whether you have \ 
W chlWren in your home, or not. It will be well worth your /, 
* * while to drop a postal card for our FREE BOOKLET / 
"D." which will tell you all about "Hand-l-Hold" Babe Mil*. 

I |R,M.Clgik&Co.i 

' HUSTON, MASS, 



No trouble 
to wean baby 
with the Hy- 
geia nursing 
bottle, because 
it haa a breasc, 
and it is the only 
cursing bottle 
with a breast. 
The breast is 

reinforced, reversible, and is easily turned inside out for cleansing. 

TTie receptacle is not a bottle, but an open cell. It is filled 

without a tunnel, cleaned without a brush, and serves as a 

▲ cup for the breast-nipple, during the interim of 
feeding. 
Both breast and cell are to constructed, that 
they are saniury in lie fullest sense of the 
"SL BiB*" word. 

The Hygela Sterilizer, or Pasteurizer, is 
aa simple in construction as the Hygna nurung bot- 
tle'. For use, and for cleanliness, it is beyond com- 
pare, and unexcelled for simplicity. The food-cell 
of the sterilizer is the same as the cell of the Hygna 
nursing bottle. The cell is covered with a steri- 
lizer cap, which b open at the top, so that it can 
THi Cii.1. be corked with cotton. 

The ract, that supports the food-cells, is above 
the water, which la used in the sterilizer, for the heating of 
the food. The rack covera the water, then there is a cover 
to the sterilizer, so that the heat is confined, and the desired 



Hygeia nursing bottle 
furnished on appli- 
cation. Writeforliter- 
ature in reference to 
these unique inventims, 

■iniifaetareil b) HVSEU NURSIU BOniE CO., Biillili, M. Y. 



THE "NEAL" 

POR-TABLE R-UBBER. 
BATHTUB FOR CHILDREN 



This unique and protfy little Sanitary Bathing Apparatus (or 
Infanta ia one or the beat and most uscEul bathtutia on tbe 
market. It has bben in active use over Stteen years' and 
has found Ita way Into aomc of the finest Nurseries on both 
contlnenta. The "Neat" Bathtub has been success Cully 
used In plac:? oC an Incubator for premature and delicate 
babies. By wrapping the Infant In aoft woolen blankets 
and placing; hct-water bags around the child, tbe rubber 
keeps its uniform heat, and at tbe same time Insures 
plenty of fresh air, and 1b ot easy access to Physician and 
Nurse. This has been eucocHsfulIy tried in a number ot 
cases. The Inventor of this little bathtub Is a. graduate of 
the New York City Hospital Training School for Nurses. 
For further particulars send for cataloeue and price list to 
Miss S. C. NEAL. Patentee and Manufacturer, 114 FIFTH 
AVENUE, New York City. U. S. A. 



Good 

Nurses 

and 

Careful 

Mothers 

ue partionlar about 
using ot> other but 

MENNEN'S?rLtV.S TOILET POWDER 

becanse it is freely recommended above all others by pbysl> 
clans everywhere. MENNEN'S is the saiest and purest of 
Toilet Powders. It not only smooths the skin bat soothes 
the skill, nut only hides ronghoBBS and rawness, but heals 
them. It enables yon to easily retain that pleasing appearance 
of fresh cleanliness. 

Guaranteed by G. Mennen Chemical Go. under the Food 
and Drags Act, June 3i), 1906, Serial No. 1543. 

For Sill ETinrwhBre, or bj Uili for 25 Cinti, Pnliiiid 
tunplt Box for i-cant Stimp 
MENNBN'S Borated Skin Soap (bine 
wrapper) should be used always in con- 
nection with MENNEN'S Borated Tal- 
cum Toilet Powder, for the health of 
the skin. For sale everywhere, or by 
mail for 25 cents, postpaid. Sample 
cake for 4 cents. 

GERHARD MENNEN CO., Newark, N.J. 



BOOKS THAT JfUBSEH NEED 



PRACTICAL POINTS IN ANESTHESIA 

By FKEDKKICK-EMIL NKKV, B. K, B. L., U. L., M. D., NKW YORK 

This very practical monograph presents the author's impressions on the eorreot 
use of chloroform, ether, etc., and is a simple and oohcrent working method. 
Among ttae subjects covered are: 

Induction of Anesthesia Vomiting during AiieHthe»U Becesslon of Tongue alter Nar* 

Cardiac and Keaplratory Collapse Obiitracled Breathliin; coals 

When shall the Patient be Ueclaifd Vw of the Breathing Tube Post-Ope rati ve Distress 

Ready for Operation IndlfationH for Btlmulatlon Minor Anesthesia yrttfk Xthyl 

Ualutenance ot the Hurgical Plane InHueuci'ofMorphine on Narcosis Chloride 

of Anesthesia Ueneral Course of Auesttaesia Intubation, Aneathesto 

Important Reflexes Awakenini; Ktc, Ktc. 

It is of especial value to those general practitioners and nurses who are so situated 
that the services of an expert anesthetist can not be secured. 

This extremely practical and useful little book Is condensed to about fifty pages, 
but every page is replete with valuable data. Printed upon heavy India tint- 
special Cheltenham paper with Cheltenham type, with marginal headings in con- 
trasting colored ink. 

Regular Udition, Semi de Luxe, cloth binding, stamped in gold, 

Price, <IO Cents, P*«tp»ld. 
Special Fall ]L.lbriary dc I^axe Sdliton, flexible oose leather bound, with 
gold edges, stamped in gold, SLSO* postpaid. 

700 SURGICAL SUGGESTIONS 

By dr. WALTER IL BRICKNER 

▲ssiatant Adjunct SnrKeon Mount Sinai Hospital, and Chief of Surgical Department Mount Sloal 
Hospital Dispensary, New York ; Editor-in-Chief American Journal of Sursery, 

AND 

DR. E. MOSCHCOWITZ 

Assistant Physician Mount Sinai Hoapital Dispensary, N«w-Tork ; 
Associate Editor American Journal ol Surgery. 

In this, the third edition, while we could not improve the quality, we have 
increased the number of ''Huggestions, " making this book, we believe, the most 
complete, practical and useful manual of surgical suggestions, practical diagnos- 
tic hints and useful therapeutic wrinkles ever produced. 

Regular Edition, cloth, Semi de Luxe, stamped in gold. Printed upon heavy 
India tint paper with Cheltenham type, marginal headings in contrasting ink. 

Price, 91 'OO, postpaid. 
Special Full ]L.lbrary Sdltlon de ]L.axe, limp ooze leather binding, artisti- 
cally lined, stamped in gold, with gold edges, •S.So, postpaid. 

S-very Ifiiree should read the bo^rit. 

PLASTER OF PARIS AND HOW TO USE IT 

By martin W. WARE, M. D. 

Adjunct Attending Surgeon Mount Sinai Hospital, New York : Surgeon to the Good Samaritan 
Dispensary ; Instructor In Surgery New York Post-Oraduate Medical bchooL 

This is one of the most useful books ever presented, not only on account of the 
general demand for the Information and Instnction upon the subject which this 
book so explicitly, practically and comprehensively covers, but because this knowl- 
edge was not previously available except from such a large experience as enjoyed 
by Dr. Ware, or, in part, by reference to many books ou allied subjects. 

It is a concise narrative, PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED, of the many uses to wMcfa Plaster of Paris la 
adaptable in Surgery. 

The whole subject, frnm the roaklnf? of the bandaire co its use as a support in every form of apUnt, 
conet or dressing, is graphically described and illustrated. 

The book is presented in the artistic manner characteristic of the productions of 
the Sufgery Publishing Company, 

It in printed upon coatf.d book paper and attr<ictiv€ly hound in heavy red Zmcftram, 
stamped in white leaf and gold. 

Price, 91*00, postpaid 

12mo. 72 lllustratvtiis. 
Special Edition de ]L«uxe, ooze leather, gold edges and stamped, SS.OO. 



SURGERY PUBLISHING CO. 

J. MacDON ALD, Jr., M.D., President, 92 William St., N. Y., V. S. A. 

• 518 



Gazette Pocket SpelteraiiDefuier 



ISteimd, Rtvit*4 Edili 



THIS Dnli]jc Tolurae 
lish and Medical Uic- 



pDCket rifeRDee tnok- 



■Mtd. Brit/. 

It 1> RBU-kablr coat. 
pl«e, — ' ■■ --' 



<<lHI>FOURTH SI2B] Atlanta Csiatilullti. 

PRICE, BO CENT* 

Stnd/tr Spicimin PMgii and Othtw ParlicmUrt 

THE QAZETTB PUBUSNUia C«. 

3t Wut 4ad 3trMt Nnr Yark City 



Of Interest to the Super' 
intendent and Nurse 

JOURNAL COMBINATION OFFERS 

THE FOLLOWING OFFERS APPLY 
TO NEW SUBSCRIBERS ONLY 

THE TRAJNED NURSE ($2.00) and one 
copy of Pattee's ••PRACTICAL DIE- 
TETICS" ($1.50).. ^3.00 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF NURS- 
ING ($2.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
•* PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. $3.00 

THE DIETETIC AND HYGIENIC GA- 
ZETTE ($1.00) and one copy of Pattee's 
••PRACTICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50).. $2.00 

THE CANADIAN NURSE ($1J25) and 
one copy of Pattee's •« PRACTICAL 
DIETETICS" ($1.50) pJ^S 

THE NURSE'S JOURNAL OF THE < 
PACIFIC COAST ($1.50) and one copy : 
of Pat tee's ••PRACTICAL DIE- 
TETICS" ($1.50) $2.50 

THE NATIONAL HOSPITAL RECORD 

($1 J55) and one copy of Pattee's ••PRAC- 
TICAL DIETETICS" ($1.50) $2.25 

A. F. Pattee 

134 South First Avenue 
Mt. Vernon, N. Y 



520 



1874 TBUDt ( 



• ( &AVOO "«"« 1910 

A NECESSITY in EVERY HOME 
if SICK ROOM 






Tu.k% Bull On 



DA VOL "HOUSEHOLD^ 



RUBBER 
GOODS 



a having a DA VOL WATEK BOTTLE 

and a DA VOL PODNTAIN STEINGE aod 

NOT-" SOMETHING JUST AB GOOD" 



GyriHg! Shot Otfl 
STrinke TvMas 
fiyrlQgei— Ann] 

^ngti-CombloKl Pom 
^ngn— Eyt mii! Bm 

S^Fliilu— OCD 
^Hflgio— loTaDt 

S^in^H -Racbl 

^rinia— Uker and Bu 

ilAidsiilulcSlli 






Kclly'i OpemlneCiuJ 



NuE^ BOUU PHtlBfi 
dwmliti' CblluT* Cmpfl 



Sn thit th* Haroa /K.i.»r\ 
i«ODeTtiT»rticl«yliii (e«t2y 
pnrchiM for horn* OM. tkadimaiim 



DAVOL RUBBER COMPANY 



Is a> Perfsct Antla«ptlo Pl«atlc Dresalntf 

From the moment Its conatltuent parts go Into tbe sterlllEcd com- 
pounding mactilDe. tbe AntlpIiloglBtlne Ls oot touclied by human hands 
nntU the nurse remoTes It from the can tor b»d«lde application, thns 
keeping It free from bscterla. Antlpbloglstlne has superseded the old- 
fsshloned. germ-laden Q&xseed poultice In treating auoh conditions as 
Bolls, Sprslni, Felona, Ulcers, Superflcial Bums, Croup, Mumps, Ton- 

" -_ Pleurisy.' 



on In boiling w 

borne liy tbe pat ... , . . _ . 

■iiln and covered b; a plentiful amount of absorbent cotton and s ban- 
dage. Tbe dressing should be renewed. If necessary, when it will peel 
off readily, usually In 24 hours. 

Aotiphioglatlne can be applied to any part of the body, and, belcg 
■ntlaepttc, can be used on abraded aurfacea to advanlase. 

UPON RECEIPT OF A NURSE'S PROFESSIONAL CARD. A PAD 
OF NURSE'S CLIfllCAL REPORT BLANKS WILL BE SENT. 



Ho tel Martha 
Washington 

29 East 29th Street 
New York 



EXCLUSIVELY FOR WOMEN 

450 Rooms en suite and single. 

$1.50 per day and up. 

European plan. Telephone in 
every room. Numerous baths 
on each floor free to guests. 
Caters to women especially trav- 
elling or visiting New York alone. 
Convenient to surface and sub- 
way transportation, theatre and 
shopping districts. 

RESTAURANT AND TEA 
ROOM FOR LADIES 
AND GENTLEM EN 

Cuisine exceptionally good 

Absolutely fireproof. 

A. W. EAGER 




Eighteen Splendid 
Trains 

8«n Francrlaco "OmUnd Llmlled" — Electrlc-llchted. Only 
thrct days Chlcava \a San Francisco. Leavea Chioso 7JW 
p. m. dally. CblcsEO, Union PaciEc A North WcMern Line. 

The loa Andalea llmltad — ElectHc-llBhtcd. Lcbvm Chicaco 

lO.lB p. m. dally. Airlvea Loa AnKclea 4.30 p. m. the third day. 
ChicaSD <& North WcstciQ Ry, Vnlan Pac<Hc R. K. and Salt 

The Oredon-WashlDdton Limited — Blectric-Ilchted. Laavea 

day. Only 71 houra enroute. Chlcaco, Union Paciflc A 

North WcgtBrn Lint. 
The ChlDB and Japan Feat Hall— Lchvcb Chlcaso dally at 10.43 

p. m. for Oenvcr,PortlBnd,San Franclaco and Ixia Anariea. 
The "Denver Special"— ElKtrlc-llshted. Only one nl«ht to 

Dcnvtr. LeavcB Chicago 6.00 p. m. daily. Chlctwo, Union 

Pacific and North Wcgtcrn Lint. 
The Dulntti Superior Limllad— Electtlc-llehted. Dally ChicBEO 

to Supcrloi and Duluth. Leavca Chlcaco 6.25 p. m. 
The North Weatera Limlled— Blectrlc-UEhted. Dally between 

Chlcaeo, at. Paul and Hinnespolla. Leavca Chicago GJ3 p. at. 
The St. Pant and UlBaaapalls Eipreaa— Electrlc-lllhted daily 

— '- ---tween Chicago, St. Paul, Mlnneapolia --' ■-'-- 





Leaves Chicago 10.10 p. in. 






The 


Iron and Copper Conolry eipreaa— EleclH 


le-lighted. Dally 




to the Lake Superior Iron and 




ountry. Leaves 




Chicago 630 p. m. (Connerta at 


Appleton Ji 


CI. for Ashland.) 


Tha North Shore Special— One of I 




dally trains be- 










Th» 


Aahlud Llm lied—Dally betw 
Wia. LeaveaChlcaEoS.oap,m. 


■era Chlcat 


:o and Aahland, 


The 


B.dd« Sl»<= E-preaa— Dally t 






Daylight ride through plctur. 




consln. Leaves 




ChlcagDlMa a. m. 






Tba 


Wlaconatii Special— Leavee Chi 


cago3.00p. 


«.forOre«.Bar 
















The 


Blach Bllla B«pre..— Chieaeo 


to the Black Hllla and Hot 




8prinBfcdally,viaOmah.,atlO.. 








eaa— Between Chicsso and 




the BUck HlUa and Hot Spring 








au,N. W. Ry. Leave. Chicago" 


I'aily S.a4 p. i 




Hln 






roandPlefreJlot 




Springs and Ih. Black Hills. Le 


av« Chicai 


ID daily 8.30 a.m. 


The 


Omaha and Slovs Clly Llalt< 


ed— Elect tl< 


flighted. Dally 




Uxin to Omaha and Sloui City. 




cago6.0Sp.in. 



J. C. JOHNSON 

Pautnger Traffic Manager, C. Sf JV. IT. /?« 



Pattee's 



Hand-Bag Diet Book 

Consisting of 

Measures and Weights, Recipes 
and Hospital Dietaries 

REPRINTED PROM 

Pattee's «« Practical Dietetics with 
Reference to Diet in Disease" 

AT the request of a large number of nurses 
ZJm these exti-acts fix)in the Sixth Edition of 
^ -^ Pattee^s "Practical Dietetics with Refer- 
ence to Diet in Disease "^ have been collated into 
a small book, suitable for the nurse'*s hand-bag. 

It is bound in heavy paper and is sold only 
to nurses, purchasers of the complete edition. 
Those who do not purchase both the complete 
book and the Hand-Bag Diet Book at the same 
time can obtain the latter only when the coupon 
on the opposite page is forwarded to the publisher 
or b(X)kseller from whom book was purchased 
and is accompanied by the nurse's professional 
card or hospital order and the price of the 
book. Orders will not be filled unless these 
instructions are followed. 

Price of the complete Sixth Edition of Pattee's 
"Practical Dietetics '^ ($1.50 postpaid) with one 
copy Pattee**s Hand-Bag Diet Book, $1.75 postpaid. 

This booklet is not published for general circula- 
tion, simply for the convenience of the nui'se for 
her hand-bag equipment. 



536 



COUPON 

This coupon entitles any nurse who is the 
possessor of the Sixth Edition of Pattee*s " Practical 
Dietetics " to purchase one copy of Pattee*S Hand- 
Bag Diet Book. 

Send this coupon with your professional card 
or hospital order and 30 cents to the publisher or to 
the bookdealer from whom the book was purchased^ 
and a copy will be forwarded postpaid. 

A. F. PATTEE, Publisher 
Mount Vernon New York 



Name 



Address. 



527 




HC 3SFY D 



ttJi.itie.i 



•mi ffvlirai9io 



pUmii 

3 2044 045 134 186 




