TX 715 
.1137 
Copy 1 




Mrs. Marvin's 

OOK BOOK 

Here is everything advantageous to life. 

— The Tempest 




Mrs. MARVIN'S 

Cook Book 

Of more than two hundred and 
fifty tested receipts, compris- 
ing some of the most select 
from over fifty homes, to- 
gether with all of the 
best from her own 
private cook 
book 



Compiled and Edited by 

cTHrs. A. I. MARVIN 



COCHRANE PUBLISHING COMPANY 
TRIBUNE BUILDING, NEW YORK 

1910 



x< 



& 



tv 



<A 



Copyright, 1910, by 
Cochrane Publishing Co. 



(&CI.A265857 



To him who, 

by his keen appreciation 

and his rare (but never unkindly) criticism, 

has made cooking a joy and a success, 

My Husband, 

this little book is dedicated 



PREFACE 

The scope of this book is to eliminate experimentation, 
and to give every housekeeper a complete cook book of 
receipts not too expensive for the average home. 

Every receipt has been tested by the Author in her own 
home, and each has proved a success: more — many have 
become favorites not only in this one home, but also among 
a large circle of friends and acquaintances. 

It is a fact that the majority of people do not wish to 
make cakes that call for six or eight eggs each ; these, and 
all rules of like extravagance, have found no place in this 
book. 

Wholesome and nutritious foods, with an occasional 
luxury, form a pleasing variety, acceptable to every family. 
— The Author. 

Receipt. A formula or prescription for the making of 
something, or the production of some effect; distinguished 
from recipe by the common restriction of that word to med- 
ical or related uses: as, a receipt for a pudding. 

Recipe. A formula for the compounding of a remedy, 
with directions for its use, written by a physician ; a medical 
prescription. 

2. A prescribed formula in general, but especially one 
having some relation or resemblance to a medical pre- 
scription. — The Century Dictionary and Cyclopedia. 



INDEX. 

Breads 7 

Soups 13 

Salads and Sandwiches 17 

Meats 22 

Miscellaneous 24 

Pickles 31 

Doughnuts and Cookies 34 

Cake 37 

Additional Fillings and Frostings 48 

Puddings and Desserts 51 

Pudding Sauces 62 

Pies 64 

Candy 69 

Ice Cream and Sherbet 73 

Drinks 74 

Canning and Preserving 77 



Mrs. Marvin's Cook Book 



Breads 

Bread is generally mixed at night and allowed to rise 
until morning, but for some reasons it is better to mix it in 
the morning. It can then be watched, and molded at just 
the right time, whereas if it is mixed at night, two undesir- 
able results are likely to follow ; if the bread receives a chill 
from being in too cool a place it does not rise at all, and if 
the temperature is too high the bread invariably runs over. 

BREAD 

y 2 cup sugar 1 qt. liquid 

1 tbsp. salt 1 yeast cake. 

If all milk is used, it requires no shortening. 

If all water is used, add 2 mixing spoons of melted lard. 

If half milk and half water, use 1 mixing spoon of lard, 
if wished. (It is good without.) 

Mix in the order given, and add flour to make a stiff 
dough. Let it rise, then knead, and put into two well 
greased pans. Rise again, and bake from 50 to 60 minutes. 

Put butter about the size of a walnut into a thin piece 
of cloth and rub the tops of the loaves with the butter as soon 
as taken from the oven. 

RAISED BISCUIT 

After bread dough has risen once, cut off small pieces 
and mold slightly, working a small piece of butter into each. 
Set in a warm place to rise again, then bake about 30 
minutes. 



8 MRS. MARVIN'S 

COLD WATER BREAD 

Mix together: 

2 qts. flour %. tsp. saleratus 
1/3 cup sugar 1 heaping tsp. salt 

Make hole in the middle and put in 2 tablespoons lard. 
Pour on half the quantity of mixing water hot, let lard 
soften, and mix. Make another hole in middle and pour in 
remainder of water cold, with 1 yeast cake. When thor- 
oughly stirred together, knead 10 or 15 minutes (until dough 
does not stick to hands) and let rise. When ready for bak- 
ing pans, knead only enough to get into shape. 

BREAD WITHOUT KNEADING. 

1 heaping qt. flour. 3 tsp. sugar 

1 tsp. salt y 2 yeast cake 

Add milk and water enough to make a stiff dough. Let 
rise, shape, and place in two bread pans to rise again. Let 
rise half enough, take from pans and toss back and forth in 
hands, return to pans, and when a dent made with the finger 
remains in top of loaf, it is ready for the oven. 

BREAD AND BUNS 

Mix together: 

3 cups milk 1 tbsp. sugar 
%. cup water for yeast 1 cake yeast 

1 tsp. salt Flour 

When risen take for buns one-half the dough and add 
1 tgg 1 cup currants 

5 tbsp. brown sugar , y 2 tsp. cinnamon 

Mix very thoroughly, shape into 15 or 16 buns and let 
rise. Brush tops with sugar and milk, and bake. 

DATE BREAD 

When bread is ready for the baking pans, into one loaf 
knead 1 cup molasses dates, stoned, and left in medium large 
pieces. Let rise in the usual manner and bake. 



COOK BOOK 9 

ROLLS 

Pour over y cup sugar and y 2 teaspoon salt, \ J / 2 cups 
hot milk. Add 1/3 cup cold water and y 2 yeast cake. 

Mix with flour as for bread. When risen light, knead 
thoroughly, shape, and let rise again before baking. 

GOLDEN ROLLS 

1 pt. (boiled) squash, y 2 cup sugar 

after sifting ]/ 2 tsp. salt 

y 2 yeast cake 2 tbsp. melted butter 

y 2 cup milk 

Flour to mix like bread. 

Let rise, mold and shape into rolls. 

Let rise again, and bake about y 2 hour. 

Upon removing from oven, rub butter over the tops of 
the rolls. 

If mixed in the morning will be ready for supper. 

BROWN BREAD 

1 cup graham flour y 2 cup molasses (scant) 

2/3 cup Indian meal y 2 tsp. soda 

1 cup milk (sweet or sour) y 2 tsp. salt 

Steam \y 2 hours. Dry in oven 10 minutes with cover 
off. 

QUICK BREAD 

1 cup sour milk y 2 tsp. salt 

y% cup water 1 tsp. soda 

Y% cup molasses 

Mix to a soft dough with graham flour and bake 1 hour. 

BISCUIT 

1 tsp. salt 1 qt. sifted flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. butter 

Mix together thoroughly and add milk to make a dough 
as soft as can be handled. 



10 MRS. MARVIN'S 

MUFFINS 

2 cups flour 1 egg 

1 tbsp. sugar 2 tbsp. melted butter 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 cup sweet milk 
y 2 tsp. salt 

Bake in muffin tins in quick oven. 

POP DOODLE 

1 cup sugar Salt 

1 cup milk 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 cups flour 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg y 2 cup currants or raisins 

Sprinkle top with cinnamon, or with sugar, or with 
both. 

Bake in large over pan. 

FLAKED RICE MUFFINS 

Beat 1 egg until light and add : 
1 cup milk 1 cup flour 

1 cup flaked rice \y 2 tsp. baking powder 

y 2 tsp. salt 

Mix well and bake in greased gem pans in a quick oven 
about 20 minutes. 

OATMEAL BREAD 
Into the mixing bowl put: 
1 cup of rolled oats. 1 tbsp. lard 

Pour over it : 1 dessertsp. salt 

3 cups boiling water y 2 cup molasses 

Let cool. Add 1 yeast cake dissolved in cold water. 
Add bread flour to make a stiff dough. Let rise, pour into 
two bread pans without kneading. Rise again, and bake. 

BROWN BREAD 

1 cup graham flour 1 tsp. salt 

1 cup rye flour y 2 cup molasses 

1 cup corn meal 2 cups sour milk 

1 tsp. soda 1 cup raisins 

Steam 3 hours, then remove cover and set in oven 5 or 
10 minutes. 



COOK BOOK 11 

POP-OVERS 

(Mrs. Lincoln.) 
1 cup flour 1 egg, yolk and white beaten 

1 saltsp. salt separately 

1 cup milk 

Mix the salt with the flour ; add part of the milk slowly, 
until a smooth paste is formed; add the remainder of the 
milk with the beaten yolk, and lastly the white beaten to a 
stiff froth. Cook in hot buttered gem pans or earthen cups 
in a quick oven half an hour, or until the puffs are brown and 
well popped over. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups flour y 2 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 tbsp. melted butter 

2 eggs 2 cups milk 

1 tsp. powdered sugar 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup sour milk 2 slices of bread (without 

1 even tsp. soda the crust) crumbled fine. 

% tsp. salt 

Make batter with flour. 

RYE GEMS 

1 cup rye flour 1 egg 

24 cup wheat flour y 2 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 cup sweet milk 
2 tsp. baking powder 

GRAHAM GEMS 

1 pt. graham flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 tbsp. sugar 1 egg 
y 2 tsp. salt 

Mix with milk. 



12 MRS. MARVIN'S 

CORN CAKE 

y$ cup flour V/2 tsp. baking powder 

Y$ cup corn meal 1 egg 

1/3 cup sugar 1 tsp. melted butter 

y 2 tsp. salt 

Mix with milk to a soft dough and bake in a quick oven. 

PLAIN SHORT CAKE 

1 pt. sifted flour y 2 cup butter and lard 

2 tsp. baking powder mixed 

y tsp. salt 1 cup sweet milk 

1 tsp. sugar 

Mix first four ingredients and rub in the butter and lard 
thoroughly. Add the milk gradually. Bake 20 minutes in 
a hot oven. 

TO DIVIDE SHORTCAKE 

To cut through hot shortcake to divide it for filling: 
With a sharp knife cut all the way around the edge where 
you wish to divide the cake, just enough to mark it. Take a 
piece of No. 40 white thread about a yard in length, and put 
it around the shortcake in this groove, cross the ends of the 
thread, and pull the two ends simultaneously with a steady 
motion until the cake is cut into two pieces, much more 
evenly than with a knife. 

NOTE : — All of the receipts in this book requiring flour 
have been made with "King Arthur" flour. 



COOK BOOK 13 

Soups 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

Juice from 1 qt. stewed to- 
matoes 1 qt. milk 
1^2 tbsp. butter \ l / 2 tbsp. cornstarch 

Heat the milk in double boiler. Heat the butter in a 
saucepan, add the cornstarch and a little milk. Stir this 
mixture into the hot milk and cook 10 minutes. 

Add % tsp. soda to the hot tomato juice, stir well, add 
to the milk in double boiler. Season with salt, pepper and a 
little sugar. 

CROUTONS 

Cut slices of stale bread about 1/3 of an inch thick and 
butter, then cut in cubes. Put them, buttered side up, into 
a pan, and brown in a hot oven. Serve with any soup. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP 

Cook 2 tablespoons rice in double boiler until tender, 
cooking until the water is nearly all absorbed. Add 1 pint 
chicken broth, }4 onion, and 1 small stalk of celery. When 
sufficiently seasoned, sift through a wire strainer and add 
1 pint hot milk. Season with pepper and salt and strain a 
second time if it is not smooth. Serve hot with crisp 
crackers. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

1 can of peas 1 slice onion 

1 pt. cold water 1 tbsp. butter 

1 tsp. sugar salt and pepper 

1 pt. milk. 

Remove peas from can and drain. Fill the can with cold 
water and add to the peas with the sugar. When peas are 
cooked tender, mash in the water in which they have been 
boiled, and rub through a wire strainer. Scald the milk with 
the onion and add to the strained peas. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan and add the flour and seasoning. Add enough of 
the hot milk to make it mix easily, and add to the soup. 
When the soup is sufficiently seasoned remove the onion. 



14 MRS. MARVIN'S 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Three-pound piece of soup meat with bone. Place on 
the stove in cold water to draw out the meat juices and 
simmer for several hours with onion, salt and pepper added 
after the first hour. When meat is tender, add 1-qt. can 
tomatoes and 2 tablespoons sugar. Strain. Allow it to cool, 
skim off the fat, heat, and serve. 

BEAN SOUP 

Take left-over baked beans, mash them and add beef 
stock, or water enough to make the desired quantity. 

Boil slowly 1 hour or longer, and season to taste with 
pepper, salt, sugar, 2 tablespoons ketchup and 1 tablespoon 
vinegar. 

Strain and serve hot. 

LAMB SOUP 

Season rich lamb broth with onion, pepper, salt, and 
1 bay leaf. Cook 2 tablespoon fuls Alphabets* in double 
boiler until soft, add to the soup and serve very hot. 

BEEF STEW 

2*^ lbs. soup meat with bone. 

Cover with cold water and let simmer all the morning. 
After noon add contents of 1 soup bunch, 1 " cut fine. Simmer 
again for 2 or 3 hours. Add 3 medium-sized potatoes cut 
in cubes, and 1 can of unstrained tomato. When potatoes 
are tender set the stew away to cool, after seasoning with 
salt, pepper and sugar, and when cold, remove fat from top. 
Heat again to serve. 

*Alphabets are made from the same material as maca- 
roni, and can be procured in small packages. 

*A soup bunch contains 1 medium-sized parsnip, 1 small 
carrot, 2 or 3 stalks of celery, a few onion tops, and 2 or 3 
sprigs of parsley. 



COOK BOOK 15 

PARSNIP STEW 

Salt pork Butter 

Potatoes Pepper and salt 

Parsnips 

Boil 2 or 3 pieces of salt pork (perhaps *4 lb-) for 
half an hour, then add parsnips sliced, and potatoes cut in 
small pieces. The amount depends upon the quantity de- 
sired. When nearly done, season and thicken slightly 
with flour. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Slice 3 medium-sized potatoes into boiling salted water 
in which a small onion has been sliced, and when nearly 
done add l / 2 pint fresh clams. Cook from 5 to 8 minutes, and 
thicken with 1 tablespoon flour stirred into cold water. Add 
pepper, butter and more salt if needed. 

CLAM CHOWDER WITH MILK 

Fry 1 or 2 small onions in butter, or, if preferred, in the 
fat of fried salt pork. Pour hot water over it and strain. 
Into the liquid slice 3 medium-sized potatoes, and when they 
are nearly cooked add y 2 pint fresh clams. Boil about 5 
minutes longer, add \ l / 2 pints of milk, season with salt, 
pepper and butter. If preferred, thicken slightly, using 1 
neaping tablespoon flour stirred into milk or water. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Fish chowder is very nice made from leftover pieces of 
cooked fish. Slice 3 small potatoes and 1 small onion, and 
boil together until tender, then add the fish after removing 
all bones. Add milk and season with salt and pepper. 
Thicken slightly and add butter the last thing. 

OYSTER STEW 

Place 1 pint oysters in stew pan over fire with T / 2 cup 
cold water. At the same time set 2 quarts milk on fire to 
heat. When edges of oysters begin to curl, pour hot milk 
over them and cook until milk is nearly at boiling point, 
being very careful that it does not scorch. Season with salt, 
pepper and butter, and set a little back on the stove for 5 or 
10 minutes. This draws out the oyster flavor and makes the 
stew much better seasoned than if eaten at once. 



16 MRS. MARVIN'S 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

1 pt. milk pepper 

2 tbsp. butter celery salt 

2 heaping tbsp. flour dash of cayenne 

salt 

Put all together and cook until thickened, stirring 
often. Wash 1 pt. oysters and heat without water until 
edges begin to curl. Add to the cream sauce and let stand 
on back of stove while toasting the bread. Serve on hot 
buttered toast. 

OYSTERS A LA THORNDIKE 

1 pt. oysters Slight grating of nutmeg 

2 tbsp. butter y cup thin cream 
y 2 tsp. salt Yolks of 2 eggs 
Dash of cayenne 

Wash oysters, add them to the melted butter and 
cook until plump. Then add seasonings, cream and beaten 
yolks. Cook until slightly thickened, then serve on but- 
tered dry toast or zephyrettes. 

CORN SOUP 

1 can sweet corn 1 tbsp. sugar 

y 2 pt. boiling water 1 tsp. salt 

1 pt. hot milk Pepper 

1 small onion 

Thicken slightly, using 1 tablespoon flour and add 
butter. 

CREAMED CELERY 

Take any amount of celery desired, cut into small 
pieces and stew until tender. Allow it to cook down almost 
dry, then add milk, a little thickening (flour), and season 
with salt, pepper and butter. 

CABBAGE IN MILK 

Chop cabbage fine and cook until tender. At the last 
boil down so there is very little water and add milk. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and butter. 



COOK BOOK 17 



Salads and Sandwiches 

There are great possibilities for any one who has even 
a small garden. Lettuce may be planted at intervals 
throughout the season, insuring one a succession of crops, 
and parsley requires little attention at any period of its 
growth. In addition to the beauty of parsley as a garnish, 
its uses are numerous. There are various kinds advertised 
in the seed catalogues ; you will find the "fern-leaved pars- 
ley" especially beautiful. With salad dressing always on 
hand, lettuce and parsley in the garden, how easy to pro- 
vide an attractive salad for an unexpected guest. In the 
winter, to keep lettuce, parsley, or celery in a crisp condi- 
tion for hours, wrap in a cloth wrung from cold water and 
keep in a cool place. 

SALAD DRESSING 
1 cup vinegar, boiled. 

Beat together 
1 egg 3 tbsp. milk 

3 tbsp. sugar l / 2 tsp. salt. 

1 tbsp. mustard 1 tsp. cornstarch 

Add to the boiling vinegar, stir until it is of the con- 
sistency of cream, add a small piece of butter, strain, and 
cool. Keep in cool place and it will be good for several 
weeks. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

1 cup vinegar 1 tbsp. mustard and y 2 

2 tbsp. butter tbsp. salt 

3 eggs Small dash of cayenne if 
l / 2 cup powdered sugar desired 

Also 1 tsp. cornstarch 
Cook until thick as cream, then strain. When cold, 
stir in l / 2 cup cream whipped stiff. Keep in glass jar in 
cool place. It will separate a little while standing, so needs 
to be stirred thoroughly before using. Keeps well. 



18 MRS. MARVIN'S 

SALMON SALAD 

1 head of lettuce 1 hard-boiled egg 

1 can salmon Salad dressing 

Chop lettuce or cut it fine. Pick salmon into small 
pieces and remove bones. Mix lettuce and salmon together 
and add salad dressing to taste. Stir all together and serve 
on single lettuce leaves or on a dainty platter lined with 
lettuce leaves. Separate egg and rub the white through 
wire strainer on to the top of the salad. Over this strain 
the yolk in the same way and a very pleasing effect is pro- 
duced. It is well to have canned salmon always on hand. 
Use best quality. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Lobster salad is made in the same manner as salmon 
salad, cutting the lobster into small pieces. The egg may 
be used or not over this or any other salad. Its purpose is 
entirely decorative. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Cut out a large hole from the top of a perfect cabbage 
in some fancy shape, square, triangular or circular, to suit 
the fancy. Chop the removed pieces fine, and mix with 
salad dressing to taste. Serve the salad in the dish made 
by hollowing out the cabbage. Place several of the outside 
leaves of the cabbage on the serving plate under the cab- 
bage, for decorative purpose, and you have a most attrac- 
tive salad. 

EGG SALAD 

1 head lettuce Salad dressing 

5 hard-boiled eggs 

Thoroughly wash the lettuce, separate the leaves and 
arrange them daintily on a large platter. Slice the eggs 
carefully and place the slices artistically on the lettuce 
leaves. Sprinkle over with salad dressing without disturb- 
ing the arrangement of the salad. 



COOK BOOK 19 

POTATO SALAD 

Cut boiled potato, either hot or cold, into small cubes 
and mix salad dressing with it to taste, adding a small 
amount of chopped parsley. 

POTATO SALAD NO. 2 

-Boil 6 medium sized potatoes, and while they are yet 
warm, cut into small pieces. Over these slice 2 or 3 onions, 
and over all pour an uncooked dressing made by mixing 
together : 

y 2 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. vinegar 

Sprinkle of black pepper 1 or 2 tbsp. oil. 

Stir all together; cover, and leave for 2 or 3 hours. 
When ready to serve, remove the large pieces of onion 
and serve the salad on lettuce leaves. 

CELERY SALAD 

Cut stalks of crisp celery into small pieces and mix with 
a generous supply of salad dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce 
leaves and garnish with the very small leaves from the heart 
of the lettuce, a few of the tender leaves from the tips of the 
celery, and the following (which makes a good garnish for 
other salads) : Press pieces of cream cheese, rolled into 
little balls, between halves of English walnuts. They re- 
semble cream walnuts and are delicious with salads. 

FRUIT SALAD 

2 good sized oranges y 2 lb. Malaga grapes 

1 large apple y 2 cup canned pineapple 

2 bananas 

Cut oranges and apples in small pieces. Slice the 
bananas. Cut grapes in halves and remove seeds. Add 
pineapple. A short time before serving mix "cream salad 
dressing" with the fruit, to taste. If plain salad dressing 
is used, add % cup of cream, whipped. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Waldorf salad is made of small pieces of celery, cut-up 
English walnut meats and small cubes of freshly-cut apple. 
Season to taste with salad dressing and serve on lettuce 
leaves with any garnish desired. 



20 MRS. MARVIN'S 

LAMB SALAD 

Take lamb left from a roast and chop fine or put 
through the meat chopper. Mix with small pieces of let- 
tuce, add a few stuffed olives cut in slices and add salad 
dressing to taste. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Boil any number of eggs desired for 20 minutes and 
plunge in cold water. While they are yet warm, remove 
the shells carefully and cut the eggs in halves. Remove the 
yolks, leaving the whites in unbroken halves. Rub the 
yolks to a paste and mix with salad dressing to taste, and a 
small amount of chopped parsley. Return to the egg cups 
and serve on lettuce leaves or on a bed of parsley. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Yolk of 1 egg beaten slightly Sprinkle of pepper (use cay 
Pinch of salt enne if preferred) 

l /z tsp. mustard juice of y 2 lemon 

Mix together thoroughly, then pour in olive oil (a few 
drops at a time), continually stirring until it is the consis- 
tency of thick cream. Add 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

MINCED SANDWICHES 

\ l / 2 cups boiled ham, chopped 3 tbsp. salad dressing (more 

2 hard-boiled eggs if liked) 

3 sweet pickles Pepper and salt 
6 olives 

Chop pickles and olives, mash the eggs, then mix all 
ingredients together and spread between slices of buttered 
bread. 

CREAM SANDWICHES 

y 2 cup cream 2/3 of a 5c. Neufchatel cheese 

Chop together: beaten together 

2 or 3 stalks of celery 12 walnut meats (halves) 

4 stuffed olives Pinch of salt 

Mix all together and spread thin between buttered 
crackers or thin slices of buttered bread. 



COOK BOOK 21 

CLUB HOUSE SANDWICH 

Put together in exactly the order given : 

1 slice of buttered toast Sliced raw tomato 

1 lettuce leaf, spread with Cooked bacon 

salad dressing White meat 

Layer of white meat Lettuce with salad dress- 

(either chicken or tur- ing 

key) Slice of buttered toast 

A few slices of cooked 

bacon 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Hard boiled eggs. 

Mash the yolks, chop the whites fine, stir together and 
season with salad dressing and small amount of chopped 
parsley. 

PEANUT BUTTER 

Makes a good filling for sandwiches. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Buy best canned sardines, rub them to a paste, season 
with salad dressing, and use for sandwich filling. 



22 MRS. MARVIN'S 

Meats 



BEEF LOAF 

2 lbs. beef, chopped fine 1 tsp. pepper 

1 cup cracker crumbs 2 tsp. salt 

1 or 2 eggs 2 tsp. sage 

Yz cup milk 

Mix well and press in a deep bread pan. Bake about 
2 hours. 

PRESSED CORNED BEEF 
Buy as many pounds as desired of corned thick-rib, and 
put on to boil in fresh cold water. Simmer until it is very 
cender, let the water partly boil away, then take from the 
fire and let stand in the water in which it was cooked. While 
still warm, pick over carefully, discarding all that is poor. 
Place the good pieces lengthwise in a bread pan, sprinkling 
in pieces of fat, and press by setting a pan of the same size 
over the meat, and weighting heavily. (Of course a meat- 
press is better, but it is by no means necessary.) 

PRESSED LAMB 

Cook lamb as for a stew, by pouring boiling water over 
it and allowing it to simmer until tender. Salt well, and 
press in the same manner as "Pressed Corned Beef." 

BOILED BEEF AND BEEF PIE 

Three pounds beef cut in pieces about the size of an 

Cover with boiling water and let simmer, with 1 small 
onion, pepper and salt, until tender. Thicken with flour 
stirred into cold water. Beef cooked in this way makes an 
excellent beef pie. Use "Plain Short Cake" rule for the pie 
crust. Line the baking dish with crust, fill with the beef, 
and cover over with the crust. Bake in quick oven. 

COLD ROAST BEEF 

Slices of roast beef are very toothsome heated in roast 
beef brown gravy, which has been strongly seasoned with 
onion and paprika. 



COOK BOOK 23 

COLLOPS ON TOAST 

1 lb. beef chopped fine. 

Simmer for several hours with enough water to cover. 
Season with salt and a little pepper, and at the last add 1 
tbsp. butter. Pour over slices of buttered toast, and serve 
hot. Left-over pieces of beef steak chopped fine and cooked 
in the same way are especially good. 

STUFFING 

Use: 
y 2 cracker crumbs y> stale bread and 

Moisten with hot milk. Add 1 egg well beaten, and 
season with butter, salt, pepper and chopped onion. If sage 
is preferred, omit the onion. 

MINCED LAMB 

1 pt. milk heated in double 2 tbsp. flour stirred into 2 
boiler tbsp. melted butter 

Add to hot milk and season with salt, pepper and onion. 
When thick like cream, pour it over finely chopped lamb 
(left from roast) and add a little chopped parsley. If wished, 
pour into ramekin dishes, cover with cracker crumbs soaked 
in melted butter, and brown in oven by setting dishes in pan 
of hot water. Add a sprinkling of flour, roll and bake in 
quick oven. 

MEAT ROLL 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough and roll it out 
}i inch thick. Spread chopped cold beef or lamb on the 
dough, and sprinkle with pepper, salt and bake in quick 
oven. 

SAUSAGES 

Before cooking sausages run a sharp knife through the 
skin from end to end, and remove the skin carefully. Sau- 
sages are much nicer prepared in this way. 



24 MRS. MARVIN'S 

Miscellaneous 



STUFFED PEPPERS 

Remove seeds from the stem ends of 8 green peppers, 
being careful to keep the peppers whole. Wash thoroughly- 
inside and out, and fill with the following: 
6 ripe tomatoes, peeled and 2 tbsp. melted butter 

cut fine A little chopped meat of any 

6 crackers rolled fine kind if wished 

1 medium sized onion grated or chopped 

Pepper and salt to taste. Place the filled peppers in a 
dish deep enough to keep them upright, and bake. 

BAKED BEANS* 

Soak 1 pint beans in cold water over night. In the 
morning put them into fresh cold water and simmer until 
soft. Add Y2 teaspoon soda, remove from fire and pour cold 
water through them. Into the bean pot put 1 tablespoon 
butter and pour in the beans with l /z pound salt pork, 
scalded. 
Mix 1 tsp. salt 1 tbsp. molasses 

]/ 2 tsp. mustard )/$ cup sugar 

Dissolve with hot water and pour over the beans. Add 
enough more hot water to cover them, and keep them cov- 
ered until the last hour. Bake 8 hours or longer. 

♦Kidney beans are very fine cooked in this way. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Butter earthen dish and put in layer of cracker crumbs 
(fine). Add layer of oysters, salt, pepper and butter. Alter- 
nate the two layers, having the top layer of crumbs thicker 
than the rest. Beat well 1 or 2 eggs, add 1 pint of milk, and 
pour a little over each layer of crumbs and oysters, reserv- 
ing plenty for the top. Sprinkle thickly with small pieces of 
butter, and bake about an hour. 



COOK BOOK 25 

MINCED CLAMS 

One quart clams (discard black part) chopped fine and 
cooked in their own liquor 8 minutes. 

Pour boiling water over 3 tablespoons cornstarch 
rubbed into 3 tablespoons melted butter, leaving it thick. 
Cook in double boiler, then add the clams and season with 
salt, pepper, onion and chopped parsley. If the mixture is 
too thin add cracker crumbs to thicken slightly. It is better 
if left in the double boiler an hour or two, and stirred occa- 
sionally. Pour into individual dishes, cover with cracker 
crumbs soaked in melted butter, and place in the oven in a 
dish of hot water to brown the crumbs. Serve hot. 

SALT FISH BALLS 

(Mrs. Lincoln) 
1 cup raw salt fish 1 egg, well beaten 

1 pt. potatoes % saltspoon pepper 

1 tsp. butter More salt if needed 

Wash the fish, pick in half-inch pieces, and free from 
bones. Pare the potatoes and cut in quarters. Put the 
potatoes and fish in a stewpan, and cover with boiling water. 
Boil 25 minutes or till the potatoes are soft. Be careful not 
to let them boil long enough to become soggy. Drain off all 
the water; mash and beat the fish and potatoes till very 
light. Add the butter and pepper, and when slightly cooled 
add the egg, and more salt if needed. Shape in a tablespoon 
without smoothing much, slip them off into a basket, and 
fry in smoking hot lard 1 minute. Fry only five at a time, 
as more will cool the fat. Drain on soft paper. 

THICK CREAM SAUCE FOR CROQUETTES 

1 pt. hot milk l / 2 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. butter Pepper, onions, chopped 
4 heaping tbsp. flour parsley 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour slowly, thin with a little 
of the milk, and add to the milk in double boiler. Season. 
The sauce should be very thick, almost like a drop batter. 



26 MRS. MARVIN'S 

CROQUETTES 

Chop cooked meat fine — chicken, veal, mutton, lamb, 
beef or turkey. Pour hot cream sauce over it and allow it 
to cool, then shape into croquettes. Roll in fine cracker 
crumbs, then in beaten egg, lastly in cracker crumbs, and 
fry in smoking hot fat. Drain on paper. 

NOTE: — Place croquettes on skimmer, or in croquette 
basket and plunge into the fat, leaving them until they are 
a delicate brown. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Select large oysters and roll in fine cracker crumbs. 
Dip each oyster into beaten egg, roll again in cracker crumbs, 
and fry in well-buttered frying pan. 



FANCY ROAST 

To 1 pint oysters add 1 cup cold water. Cook until the 
edges of the oysters are well curled and season with pepper, 
salt and butter. Have ready buttered toast, place the oys- 
ters on the toast and pour the liquor over it. 

PLAIN OMELET 

Beat together 4 eggs with ^2 teaspoon salt, a little pep- 
per and %■ CU P milk. Pour into hot, well-buttered frying 
pan. Shake vigorously on hottest part of stove until it be- 
gins to thicken. Run a knife all around the edge of the pan 
to free the egg from the pan, fold over like a wallet and 
serve at once. 

To make cheese, ham, or jelly omelet, just before fold- 
ing over, spread plain omelet with 3 tablespoons grated 
cheese, or 3 tablespoons chopped, cooked ham, or any kind 
of jelly. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Beat 4 eggs with a little salt and pepper. Add Yz cup 
of milk, turn into a well-buttered saucepan and stir over a 
hot fire until thickened. 



COOK BOOK 27 

CLAM FRITTERS 

1 pt. fresh clams % tsp. pepper 

2 eggs 1 tbsp. melted butter 
Clam liquor Flour 

Milk 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. salt 

Drain clams, discard black part and chop remainder 
fine. Pour clam liquor into measuring cup, and add milk 
sufficient to make 1 cup of liquid. Mix ingredients and add 
flour to make a batter thick enough to hold together while it 
is dropped into smoking hot fat. Drain on paper. 

FISH SOUFFLE 

One piece salt fish, 5 by 3 inches, washed and soaked 
over night. In the morning remove bones, chop fine, and 
cook with 3 gills milk in double boiler. Thicken with 1 
tablespoon flour wet with cold milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, and 
piece of butter half the size of an egg. Take from the fire, 
fold in beaten whites of eggs and pour into buttered dish. 
Bake in hot oven until it rises and browns. Serve at once. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

(Mrs. Lincoln) 
Put 2 tablespoons of butter in a saucepan ; add 1 heap- 
ing tablespoon of flour. When smooth add l / 2 cup of milk, 
y 2 teaspoon of salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cook 2 
minutes. Add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and 1 
cup of grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake 25 or 30 minutes. Serve immediately. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE 

2 tbsp. butter x / 2 tsp. salt 

2 tbsp. flour y 2 saltspoon pepper 

1 pt. milk 

Heat the butter, then add the flour. When well mixed 
add the milk gradually and cook in double boiler until it 
thickens. Add 1 can of shrimps without the liquid, and 1 
can of French peas, after straining off the water. Cook until 
the shrimps are tender, and serve on hot buttered toast, 
either bread or crackers. 



28 MRS. MARVIN'S 

MACARONI AND TOMATO 

Cook 34 pound macaroni as for "Macaroni and Cheese." 
Butter pieces of stale bread and place them in a buttered 
pudding dish. Pour over these the macaroni mixed with 1 
can of tomatoes. Season with pepper, salt, butter and 1 
tablespoon sugar. Bake 1 hour in moderate oven. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE 

l / A lb. macaroni 3 pts. boiling salted water 

Boil until macaroni is soft, drain in a colander, and pour 
cold water through it to keep it from sticking. Put in a 
buttered baking dish enough to cover bottom of dish, sprin- 
kle over with grated cheese, add another layer of macaroni, 
and continue to alternate. Cover with a white sauce made 
with \y 2 cups hot milk 1 tbsp. flour 

1 tbsp. butter l / 2 tsp. salt 

Mix 2/3 cup of fine cracker crumbs, 1/3 cup melted 
butter, and grated cheese to taste. Sprinkle over top of ma- 
caroni and cheese and set in oven to brown. 



CRACKERS AND CHEESE 

Spread half crackers with butter, pepper, salt, mustard 
and small pieces of cheese. Put in a buttered pudding dish 
and cover with milk. Bake about half an hour. 

TOMATO TOAST 

\ l / 2 pts. unseasoned tomato 

Heat and add pepper, salt, butter and 2 tablespoons 
sugar. Break 2 eggs into the hot tomato, and as soon as the 
white of the egg sets pour over slices of hot, buttered toast. 

CHEESE TOAST 

1 pt. milk thickened with 1 rounded tbsp. flour. 

Season with salt, pepper, grated cheese and y 2 teaspoon 
mustard dissolved in milk. Cook in double boiler until 
cheese is melted, and serve at once on hot buttered toast 






COOK BOOK 29 

FRENCH TOAST 

Beat together thoroughly: 
2 eggs 34 tsp. salt 

4 tsp. sugar 

Add V/2 cups milk and stir. Dip slices of stale bread 
into the mixture and fry brown in hot, buttered frying pan. 

MILK TOAST 

Toast slices of stale bread slowly until they are well 
dried through. Heat milk, add butter and a little salt, and 
pour over the (buttered) toast. 

CREAM TOAST 

1 pt. milk thickened with 1 heaping tbsp. flour 

Cook in double boiler (to prevent scorching) until it 
thickens, and season with salt and butter. Pour over but- 
tered toast. 

NOTE: — This is good, not only for cream toast, but is 
used for Dried Beef in Cream, Creamed Codfish, etc. 

DUTCH CHEESE 

Put sour milk in a pan on the back of the stove and 
scald it until the curd has separated from the whey. Strain 
at once through cheesecloth, and salt it to taste. Add a 
pinch of sage if the flavor is liked. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small cubes. Fry 1 or 2 
chopped onions in butter, add the potato, and stir carefully 
to prevent breaking. Add a little chopped parsley and 
season with pepper and salt. 

Raw potatoes may also be used for Lyonnaise potatoes, 
following the same directions, but they must be stirred often 
to prevent burning. 



30 MRS. MARVIN'S 

POTATO OMELET 

To 1 large cupful of mashed potatoes add y 2 cup sweet 
milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons bread crumbs, 1 
teaspoon chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, yolks 
of 3 eggs, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 
Pour into a buttered dish, cover with thin layer of bread 
crumbs. Over these sprinkle a little salt and pepper and 
dots of butter. Brown in a brisk oven and serve at once. 



WELSH RAREBIT 

1 cup milk Small dash of cayenne 

34 lb. cheese grated or cut in 1 tsp. flour 

small pieces 1 tsp. butter 

y 2 tsp. salt 1 egg, well beaten 

%. tsp. mustard 

Mix all the dry ingredients and heat. Heat milk in 
double boiler and add to cheese ; then return to double boiler 
and cook until cheese is melted. Add the beaten egg, and 
butter and remove almost immediately from fire. Serve at 
once on crackers or toasted bread. 



COOK BOOK 31 

Pickles 



GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

1 peck tomatoes 1 tbsp. each of cloves, cin- 

1 head cabbage namon and allspice 
8 medium-sized peppers 4 good sized onions 

(have two of them red) 2 lbs. light brown sugar 

2 lbs. mustard seed 

Slice the tomatoes the night before, and cover with a 
cupful of salt. In the morning drain through a colander and 
chcp fine. Boil mustard seed in a weak vinegar for 5 
mi lutes, drain and add to pickle. Add other vegetables 
cloppcd fine. Put spices in a thin bag and boil them with 
the sugar in 2y 2 qts. vinegar for 15 minutes, then pour the 
vinegar over the mixed pickle and boil from 20 to 30 min- 
utes. Seal tight in fruit jars. Makes about 7 qts. 

RED TOMATO PICKLE 

18 large ripe tomatoes l /> tsp. each of cloves, cin- 

1 large onion namon and allspice (in 

2 green peppers (remove a small cloth bag) 

seeds) 2 l / 2 cups vinegar 

1 cup sugar 2 tbsp. salt 

Simmer 2 or 3 hours. 

POTTSFIELD PICKLE 

\y 2 qts. green tomatoes 3 red peppers 

\y 2 qts. ripe tomatoes 2 bunches celery 

\ l / 2 qts. cabbage */> cup horse-radish 

\y> qts. onions 

Chop all quite fine and strew ^ cup salt over, and let 
stand over night. In the morning add \y 2 qts. vinegar, 1 pt. 
sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, y 2 cup mustard seed. Boil 20 
to 30 minutes. 



32 MRS. MARVIN'S 

TOMATO KETCHUP 

l / 2 bushel tomatoes \ T / 2 cups salt 

2 qts. onions 1 tsp. cayenne pepper 

*1 qt. peppers 1 tbsp. white pepper 

2 qts. vinegar 2 tbsp. mustard 

2 cups sugar 2 tbsp. cinnamon 

Stew the tomatoes, onions and peppers together until 
soft. Then sift, add the other ingredients, and boil slowly. 
Skim. Let boil away about one-third, then bottle. 
*Unless liked very strong, remove pepper seeds. 

. • \ 3 m 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

1 qt. small cucumbers 2 qts. cauliflower, cut in 

1 qt. butter onions sections 

1 qt. sliced celery 6 green peppers, sliced 

1 qt. tender string beans 

Put the vegetables into a weak brine and leave them 
over night. In the morning scald in the same brine. It is 
better to keep the cauliflower by itself to prevent over cook- 
ing. Drain the vegetables carefully. Prepare a dressing by 
mixing: 

6 tbsp. ground mustard 1 cup flour with a little cold 

1 tbsp. turmeric* vinegar, stirring it into 

V/ 2 cups sugar 2 qts. boiling vinegar 

When it comes again to the boiling point put in the 
vegetables and let them heat through in the dressing. The 
other vegetables may be canned in weak vinegar if they ma- 
ture before the cauliflower is ready. 

♦Turmeric may be procured at the druggist's. 

PEPPER HASH (PICKLE) 

12 green peppers Remove seeds 

12 red peppers 12 onions 

Chop. Over the peppers pour boiling water and let 
stand 5 minues. Drain well. Ij4 pts. vinegar, \ l / 2 cups 
sugar, 4 dessert spoons of salt. Boil all together 10 or 15 
minutes, and can. 



COOK BOOK 33 

BORDEAUX SAUCE 

2 gal. chopped cabbage 2 gills salt 

1 gal. chopped tomatoes ]/ 2 oz. white mustard seed 

1 doz. small onions 1 oz. whole celery seed 

1 oz. allspice 1}% lbs. sugar 

1 oz. pepper 1 gal. vinegar 

1 oz. cloves 

Mix and boil 15 minutes. Set on back of stove and let 
simmer 2 or 3 hours. 



CORN SALAD (PICKLE) 

18 large ears, or 9 cups of % lb. ground mustard 

corn y 2 cup salt 

1 head cabbage, chopped 2 cups sugar 

4 red peppers chopped (re- 2 qts. vinegar 
move seeds) 

Mix thoroughly and boil 1 hour. Can and seal while 
hot. Makes about 4 quarts. 



SWEET TOMATO PICKLE 

1 peck green tomatoes, washed and sliced 

Over these strew 1 cup salt and let it stand over night. 
Drain in the morning and add : 

2 qts. water 1 qt. vinegar 

Boil 15 or 20 minutes, drain; then return to the kettle. 
Add : 2 tbsp. each of ground clove, 

1 qt. vinegar ginger, mustard and cin- 

2 lbs. brown sugar namon 

Cook slowly half an hour. If liked, the spices may be 
tied up in small bags and removed from the pickle just be- 
fore canning. 



34 MRS. MARVIN'S 

Doughnuts and Cookies 



SOUR MILK DOUGHNUTS 

2 eggs, beaten light y> tsp. soda 

1^2 cups sugar y 2 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup sour milk y tsp. salt 

Sift 4 level teaspoons baking powder with 1 cup flour 
and stir in thoroughly. Add 1 tablespoon warm fat from 
the frying kettle. Add flour until the dough is thick 
enough to shape into doughnuts, using it as thin as can be 
handled. 

SWEET MILK DOUGHNUTS 

Make the same as sour milk doughnuts only substitute 
sweet milk for sour, and omit the soda. 

In using either rule, 1, 2 or 3 eggs may be used with 
satisfactory results. 






RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

2 cups milk l / 2 yeast cake 

y 2 cup sugar 

Stir in enough flour for a batter and let it rise. Add: 
1 egg % tsp. salt 

1 cup sugar J / 2 tsp. cinnamon 

2 large spoons of lard y 2 tsp. soda 

Flour to make a smooth dough. Let it rise over night. 
In the morning shape into doughnuts and let them rise on 
the molding board. Fry in hot fat. 

BANANA FRITTERS 

1 egg y 4 tsp. salt 

y 2 cup milk 1 cup flour 

1 tsp. baking powder 2 bananas, sliced 

Drop into very hot fat from a teaspoon. 



COOK BOOK 35 

SAUCE FOR SAME 

1 cup water 1 cup sugar 

Boil together 5 minutes. Thicken slightly with corn- 
starch, flavor with vanilla and color with pink gelatine. 

CATERERS' COOKIES 

y 2 cup butter 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1 tbsp. cream or milk 

2 eggs J4 tsp. soda 

1J/2 cups flour Very little nutmeg 

Lift cookies from the board with griddle cake turner to 
prevent breaking. 

PLAIN COOKIES 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

J/2 cup butter l / 2 cup milk 

1 tsp. lemon extract 1 tsp. baking powder 

Add flour to mix thin. Vary, if wished, by adding either 
raisins, currants or citron. 

SOUR MILK COOKIES 

2 cups sour milk 2 tsp. soda 

1 cup butter 1 tsp. lemon extract 

2 cups sugar 1 cup currants 

Mix soft as can be handled, and sift sugar over before 
baking. Bake in quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

V/2 cups sugar J/2 cup milk 

y 2 cup butter 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. vanilla 2 tbsp. Barkers Hasty 

1 egg Lunch Chocolate 

Flour to make thick enough to roll out. 



36 



MRS. MARVIN'S 
MOLASSES COOKIES 



1 cup sugar 2 tsp. soda 

1 cup molasses % tsp. salt 

1 cup butter l / 2 tsp. ground cloves 

1 cup boiling water l / 2 tsp. cinnamon 

Flour to mix as thin as can be handled. Roll quite thin. 



GINGER WAFERS 

2 tsp. soda 



2 tsp. ginger 
Flour to mix quite firm 



1 cup sugar 
1 cup butter 
1 cup molasses 
y 2 cup made coffee 

Roll thin, cut with small-sized cooky cutter, and bake 
in quick oven. 

HERMITS 



1/3 tsp. each of cloves, cin- 
namon, allspice and 
nutmeg 
3 tsp. baking powder 

Flour to make a thin dough 



3 eggs 

\ l / 2 cups sugar 

1 tbsp. molasses 
y 2 cup melted shortening 
y 2 cup sweet milk 

1 cup chopped raisins 

Turn out on molding board, press thin with the hand, 
cut into squares instead of using cooky cutter. (This saves 
working over the small pieces of dough.) Lift with griddle 
cake turner, and place in large (buttered) cooky tin to bake. 
To prevent Hermits (or cookies) from hardening, place in a 
crock while warm and cover immediatelv. 



COOK BOOK 37 

Cake 

(See Bread Note) 

"King Arthur" flour is equally good for bread and for 
pastry, and this does away with the necessity of having two 
kinds of flour in the house. 

DAISY HILL CAKE 

1 cup sugar */ 2 cup milk 

y 2 cup butter 1}4 cups flour 

1 tsp. lemon extract 1*4 tsp. baking powder 

3 eggs 

Mix in the order given 

DELICIOUS CAKE 

\ l / 2 cups sugar l / 2 cup milk 

24 cup butter l / 2 cup cornstarch 

4 eggs V/ 2 cups flour 

1 tsp. lemon 2 tsp. baking powder 

This makes 1 large loaf. If preferred, bake in 2 small 
loaves. 

ANGEL CAKE 

Sift together three or four times: 
1 cup sugar l / 2 tsp. cream of tartar 

2/3 cup flour Pinch of salt 

Add whites of 5 eggs beaten stiff. Flavor. 

YELLOW FROSTED CAKE 

y 2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

\y 2 cups sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. lemon Whites of 3 eggs, beaten 

1 cup milk stiff 



38 MRS. MARVIN'S 

FROSTING FOR SAME 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Stir in enough powdered sugar to spread and add 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

FOR THE CHILDREN 

y 2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 1 tsp. lemon extract 
% cup milk 

Bake in large, shallow pan. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Boil together 1 cup sugar, T /\. cup cold water, 1 square 
chocolate and butter size of walnut for 2 minutes. Remove 
from fire, add 1 teaspoon vanilla, beat until it begins to 
thicken slightly, and spread at once before it hardens. 

Over chocolate frosting spread white frosting, as fol- 
lows: 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff, 2 cups confectioners' su- 
gar and dessertspoon hot water. Stir thoroughly and flavor 
with % teaspoon each lemon and vanilla. When smooth 
and creamlike spread. 

JELLY ROLL 

1 cup sugar 3 tbsp. milk 

3 eggs 1 cup flour 

y 2 tsp. lemon 1 tsp. baking powder 
Pinch of salt 

Bake about 15 minutes in cooky pan 10 by 16 inches. 
Turn out immediately upon a cloth, spread at once with 
jelly, and roll, using the cloth to roll the cake into shape, as 
it prevents breaking. If preferred, roll the cake immediately 
upon its removal from the oven and whenever any is used, 
unroll, spread with jelly and roll again. In order to make 
it look like bakers' jelly roll, trim with a sharp knife down 
each long edge before rolling. 



COOK BOOK 



39 



RIBBON CAKE 



1 cup milk 

4 cups flour 

4 tsp. baking powder 



1 cup butter 

2 cups sugar 
4 eggs 
\ l / 2 tsp. lemon 

Bake in three large, shallow pans, leaving two parts 
plain. To the third part add 2 teaspoons molasses, 1 cup 
currants or raisins, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, nutmeg and 
cinnamon. Put the sheets together while warm, the dark 
one in the middle, with jelly. Cover with white frosting. 



SMALLER RIBBON CAKE 



A cup milk 

2 cups flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 



y 2 cup butter 
V/2 cups sugar 
3 eggs 
1 tsp. lemon 

To one-third of the dough add l / 2 teaspoon each of cin- 
namon, clove and nutmeg, 2 tablespoons molasses and y 2 
cup fruit. Bake in round tins. Put together while warm, 
the dark part in the middle, with tart jelly between the 
layers. 

DATE CAKE 



1 cup sugar 
1/3 cup butter 

2 eggs 

y 2 cup milk 



2 cups flour 
2 tsp. baking powder 
1 cup dates, stoned and rolled 
in flour 



y 2 cup butter 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

y 2 cup milk 



NUT CAKE 

1 tsp. vanilla 



2 cups flour (scant) 

2 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup shopped nut meats 



Frost and decorate with halves of English walnuts. 



40 MRS. MARVIN'S 

BANNER CAKE (Chocolate) 

Dissolve y 2 cup "Barkers Hasty Lunch Chocolate" in 
5 tablespoons hot water. Cream together \ l / 2 cups sugar and 
l / 2 cup butter. Add 

1 tsp. vanilla \ l / 2 cups flour 

4 eggs, very well beaten 2 tsp. baking powder 
y 2 cup milk 

Sift flour and baking powder together, turn about half 
of it into the mixture and stir thoroughly. Add the melted 
chocolate and stir again, then add remainder of flour. 

SOUR MILK CAKE 

1 cup sugar l / 2 cup sour milk 

l / 2 cup butter *4 tsp. soda (saleratus) 

2 eggs 1 cup flour 
1 tsp. flavoring 

LIGHT CAKE 

1 cup sugar y 2 cup milk 
% cup butter \y cups flour 

2 eggs 1/4 tsp. baking powder 

1 tsp. flavoring 

COCOA CAKE 

y 2 cup butter 

2 cups coffee sugar, creamed together 

2 eggs \y 2 cups flour 

1 tsp. vanilla y 2 cup Barker's Hasty 

1 tsp. soda Lunch Chocolate 

1 cup sour milk 

CAKE WITH ORANGE FILLING 

1 cup sugar 2/3 cup milk 
y 2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 2 tsp. baking powder 

Bake in ribbon cake tins 



COOK BOOK 41 

ORANGE FILLING 

Juice of 1 orange with a lit- 1 cup sugar 

tie of the rind 1 tsp. cornstarch 

1 apple, grated 1 egg 

Cook in double boiler until it thickens. 

CREAM CAKES 

1 cup boiling water poured on to y 2 cup butter. 

Bring to a boil and add 1 cup flour and pinch of salt. 
Let it boil 5 minutes, beating all the time. When partly 
cooled, add 3 well-beaten eggs, soda size of a pea, and y 2 
teaspoon lemon extract. Bake in a quick oven about 30 
minutes. This makes 1 dozen. 

CREAM FILLING 

1 pt. milk 3 tbsp. flour 

2 eggs Salt 
1 cup sugar 

Flavor to taste. Cook in double boiler. If preferred, 
fill cakes with whipped cream. 

CREAM CAKE FILLING 

"Shells" may be bought at a caterer's if ordered in ad- 
vance. A very nice filling is made by first using a teaspoon 
of raspberry jam, then filling the cavity with whipped cream, 
which has been sweetened, and flavored with vanilla. 

RAISIN CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. soda 

y 2 cup butter 2 eggs 

1 tsp. cinnamon 3 cups flour 

1 tsp. nutmeg 1 cup raisins, chopped or 

y 2 tsp. cloves cut in halves 

y 2 tsp. allspice y 2 cup preserved orange 
y 2 cup molasses peel and citron together 

y 2 cup sour milk 



42 MRS. MARVIN'S 

SPONGE CAKE 



1 cup sugar 






1 cup flour 


2 eggs 






1 tsp. baking powder 


Pinch of salt 






y 2 cup boiling milk 


1 tsp. lemon 








Mix in the order 


given. 






RICH FRUIT CAKE 


1 cup butter 






2 lbs. raisins 


1 cup sugar 






1 lb. currants 


2 cups flour 






y 2 lb. chopped citron 


6 eggs 






y 2 lb. chopped figs 


1 tsp. mace 






y 2 lb. dates cut in quarters 


1 tsp. cinnamon 






y 2 lb. prunes, cooked to seed 


^ tsp. nutmeg 






easily 


^ tsp. allspice 






1 cup chopped nut meats 



% tsp. cloves 

Drain the prunes and flour them thoroughly. Mix fruits 
into the dough with the hands, reserving enough dough to 
cover the bottom of the baking tin, and a little to spread 
over the top of the cake. This rule makes 1 large loaf or 2 
medium-sized ones. Bake in deep, oblong tins for 2 hours. 
The first hour the oven should be very moderate, allowing 
the cake to warm through. Then increase the heat of the 
oven somewhat, but do not have a quick oven at any time. 
If needed towards the last, cover the cake with paper to 
prevent burning. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 cups sugar 2y 2 tsp. baking powder 
l / 2 cup butter 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup sour milk y 2 cake chocolate melted 

3 eggs over hot water 
2y 2 cups flour 

Add chocolate last thing before putting into oven. Bake 
in layers. 



COOK BOOK 43 

FILLING FOR SAME 

1 cup water 2 squares chocolate 

1 cup sugar 3 tbsp. cornstarch 

Cook in double boiler, and when cool add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Spread between the layers. Cover top with white 
or chocolate frosting. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

1 cup butter 3% cups flour, and 4 tsp. 

2 cups sugar baking powder 
creamed together sifted together 4 times 

Yolks of 8 eggs and 1 whole Alternate flour and milk 

egg Whites of 8 eggs 

l /% tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla last 

24 cup milk 

Bake in 3 layers. 

FILLING 

2 cups sugar Boiled together until it hairs 

1/3 cup boiling water 

Pour it over whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. Add: 
1 cup chopped walnuts 1 cup chopped candied cherries 

1 tbsp. lemon juice 

Cover top of cake with boiled frosting. 

NOTE: — This receipt is given because it has created 
so much comment and has been, in many cases, difficult to 
procure. 

APPLE CAKE 

One and one-half cups fresh apple, cut quite fine and 
simmered in 1 cup molasses 1 hour, or until transparent. 

For the Cake 

l / 2 cup sugar Baking powder* 

l / 2 cup butter Y\ tsp. each of all kinds of 

1 egg spice, and flour to make 

V/ 2 cups milk it quite thick 

*Use 1 teaspoon baking powder for each cup of flour. 



44 MRS. MARVIN'S 

PORK CAKE 



cups salt pork, chopped 1 cup sugar 
very fine 1 tsp. soda 

ps boiling water poured 2 tsp. cinm 
over the chopped pork 2 tsp. clove~ 
2 cups molasses 3 cups currants 



FLUFFY CAKE 

24 cup butter 1 cup milk 

2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 

4 eggs 3 tsp. baking powder 

\y 2 tsp. flavoring 

Bake in large, shallow tin. 

HONEYMOON CAKE 

y 2 cup butter y 2 cup milk 

1 cup brown sugar 2y 2 cups flour 

2 eggs 2y 2 tsp. baking powder 
y 2 cup molasses 1 cup raisins 

1 tsp. clove or cinnamon 

ORANGE CAKE 

1 cup sugar \y cups flour 

2 eggs iy tsp. baking powder 

1 tbsp. melted butter 1 tbsp. orange juice and a 

l / 2 cup milk little of the rind, grated 

ORANGE CREAM FOR FILLING 

Put in a cup the grated rind of l / 2 and the juice of 1 
orange, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, and fill cup with cold 
water. Strain and heat in double boiler. Add 1 tablespoon 
cornstarch wet in cold water. Stir until thick, then cook 10 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Then add yolk of 1 egg, 
beaten; 2 heaping tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, and 
cool. Frost cake with y 2 cup confectioners' sugar, moist- 
ened with orange juice. 



COOK BOOK 45 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, commonly given under the name of 
DEVIL'S FOOD 

1 cup sugar ]/ 2 cup sour milk 

1 tbsp. butter 1 cup flour 

creamed together 2 squares melted chocolate 

1 egg 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 level tsp. soda, dissolved y cup sour milk 
in a little hot water y> cup flour 

Put together exactly as given. Bake in 2 round tins, 
and use the following for filling and frosting: 
2 cups confectioners' sugar 

1 tbsp. butter creamed together, and moistened with 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla and a little milk or cream. 

SPICED CUP CAKES 

1 cup sugar 1 cup milk 
J /2 cup butter 2%. cups flour 

2 eggs 2^4 tsp. baking powder 
1 tsp. cinnamon l / 2 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. nutmeg 1 cup currants or raisins 

y 2 tsp. cloves Bake in muffin tins. 

ELECTION CAKE 

3 cups of bread dough after y 2 tsp. cinnamon 

it is cut down from the l / 2 tsp. nutmeg 
first rising y tsp. allspice 

1 cup sugar % tsp. cloves 

l / 2 cup butter 1 cup currants or chopped 

1 egg raisins 

y 2 tsp. soda 

Mix it together thoroughly with the hand and let it rise 
until light. Stir it down and pour into a greased bread tin. 
Let it stand in a warm place half an hour, then bake like 
bread. 



46 






MRS. MARVIN'S 






SOFT GINGERBREAD 


1 
1 

i 

2 


cup molasses 
cup sour milk 
cup shortening ( 

egg 
cups flour 


Salt 
1 tsp. 
melted) f/^ tsp. 

H tsp. 

1 tsp. 


soda 

cinnamon 
ginger 
baking powder 



Bake in large, shallow tin. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE 

For whipped cream cake, use sponge cake receipt, and 
bake in two layer tins. A cake that contains no butter is 
better for use with cream or with jelly. 



RULE FOR WASHINGTON PIE OR LAYER CAKE 

2 eggs well beaten y 2 cup milk 

1 cup sugar 1J4 cups flour 

1 tsp. lemon 1% tsp. baking powder 
% cup butter (scant) melted 

FILLING AND FROSTING 

1 cup confectioners' sugar spoons Barker's Hasty 

1 tsp. vanilla Lunch Chocolate dissolved 

1 sq. (less if desired) melted in a little hot water 
chocolate or 3 table- 
Moisten with milk until of the consistency of cream, and 
spread. 

CAKE NOTES 

Before beginning to make a cake, always have baking 
tin ready. Grease it well with lard instead of butter, and 
cover the grease with flour. This prevents the cake from j 
sticking to the tin. 

Nearly all cake receipts call for yolks and whites of eggs 



COOK BOOK 47 

)eaten separately. This is unnecessary. Beat the eggs 
without separating, as long as it takes to beat the whites 
ilone, to a stiff froth, and the results are quite as good. 

The above receipts call for butter in every case, but 
_>art lard ( l / 2 or 1/3) may be substituted for all butter, with 
ipparently no difference in the cake. 

Cream butter and sugar together with the hands. 

Mix cakes in the following order : 
Sugar and butter creamed Milk 

Flavoring Flour and baking powder 

Eggs 



48 MRS. MARVIN'S 

Additional Fillings and Frostings 

FIG FILLING 

Y2 cup figs y 2 cup raisins chopped fine 

Add enough boiling water to make a smooth paste. 
Makes 1 filling. 

TUTTI FRUTTI FILLING 

Ya cup figs 1 cup sugar 

Ya cup prepared cocoanut % cup water 
Ya cup walnut meats 1 white of egg 

Ya cup raisins 

Chop the fruit very fine. Simmer the sugar and water 
until it threads ; beat the white of the egg and pour the syrup 
over it, beating until smooth. Then add the chopped fruit, 
and spread while it is warm. This makes 2 fillings. 

CREAM FILLING FOR TWO LAYERS 

1 pt. milk 3 tbsp. flour 

2 eggs 1 tsp. flavoring 
1 cup sugar Salt 

Cook in double boiler. 

CHOCOLATE JELLY FILLING 

Y2 cup milk 1 tbsp. Barker's Hasty 

Ya cup sugar Lunch Chocolate 

1 tsp. cornstarch Y2 tsp. vanilla 

Butter size of walnut | 

Cook in double boiler and add vanilla after removing 
from fire. Watch as it cools, and when of the right consist- 
ency spread. 

LEMON FILLING 

Juice of 1 lemon 1 beaten egg 

1 cup sugar 

Cook in double boiler and when sufficiently thickened, 
in cooling, spread. 



J 



COOK BOOK 49 

MAPLE CREAM FILLING 

1 tbsp. water 1/3 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup brown sugar y 2 cup chopped nut meats 

J4 cup butter 

Boil about 7 minutes, stir briskly a short time, and 

spread before it thickens. This makes 1 filling. 

FILLING FOR WASHINGTON PIE 

1 cup sugar l / 2 cup seeded raisins, 

4 tbsp. water chopped 

Beaten white of 1 egg ]/ 2 cup nut meats 

Boil sugar and water till clear, pour over the egg, then 
stir in raisins, and last, the nuts. This makes 2 fillings. 

CREAM FILLING 

1 tbsp. flour beaten into l / 2 cup milk 

Pour into double boiler with % cup sugar. Stir until it 
thickens, then add 1 egg beaten slightly and the juice of l / 2 
lemon, and l / 2 orange. 

MOCHA FILLING OR FROSTING 

1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 sq. chocolate, melted 
1 tbsp. butter 1 tsp. vanilla 

Add hot coffee to thin, and spread. 

APPLE FILLING OR FROSTING 

One large, sour apple, grated; white of 1 egg, beaten 
foamy ; granulated sugar to taste. ( Beat all together. When 
used as a frosting it is nice sprinkled over with a small 
amount of cocoanut. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

1 cup of confectioners' sugar 

Moisten with clear orange juice. 



50 MRS. MARVIN'S 

COCOANUT FROSTING FOR WASHINGTON PIE 
OR FOR CAKE 

1 cup sugar }4 cup water 

Boil together until it spins a heavy thread. Pour 
immediately over the white of 1 egg beaten stiff, stirring 
constantly. When partially cool, stir in *4 CU P cocoanut, 
and spread on the cake while still soft. As soon as spread, 
dust thickly with cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

White of 1 egg beaten stiff. Add 1 square melted choco- 
late, 1 teaspoon vanilla, and powdered sugar to make it of 
the proper consistency. Spread, using the frosting as thin 
as can be used. 

PLAIN FROSTING 

2 tbsp. boiling water y 2 tsp. flavoring 

Stir in confectioners' sugar until right to spread. Dip 
a silver knife in hot water to spread this or any frosting used. 

DELICIOUS FROSTING 

White of 1 egg beaten stiff 1 tsp. hot water 
1 cup powdered sugar 

Stir together thoroughly and flavor to taste. 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 cup granulated sugar White of egg beaten stiff 

%. cup water 

Boil sugar and water together without stirring 3 min- 
utes. Pour over the egg and beat until light and creamy. 
When partially cooled spread on the cake. 

CARAMEL FROSTING 

1 cup brown sugar %. cup milk 

Boil until it threads, add 1 teaspoon butter, and flavor 
with vanilla. Stir a short time, and spread. 

COFFEE FROSTING 

1 cup confectioner's sugar 1 scant tsp. cream 
Add strong coffee until it is right to spread. 






COOK BOOK 51 



Puddings and Desserts 



I 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 

1 qt. milk 1 cup sugar 

1 pt. bread crumbs Butter size of an egg 

4 eggs (yolks) 

Bake and when cold spread with a tart jelly. Beat 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add y 2 cup powdered sugar, 
flavor, and spread on the pudding. Brown in the oven. 

COCOANUT CRUMB PUDDING 

Put 1 pint bread crumbs from center of loaf with 1 cup 
prepared cocoanut in buttered pudding dish. Cover with 
1 pint milk and let stand 1 hour. Beat yolks of 4 eggs with 
2/3 cup sugar, and add to this another pint of milk. Pour 
over the softened crumbs, add 2 tbsp. melted butter, ^ tea- 
spoons salt, 1 teaspoon lemon extract, and blend all carefully 
together. Bake, standing in pan of hot water as custard, in 
moderate oven until firm almost to center. When cool, 
cover with meringue made from stiffly beaten whites of 4 
eggs, to which add *4 CU P powdered sugar and y 2 teaspoon 
lemon. Brown delicately in oven. Serve hot or cold. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

Stir 4 tablespoons Indian meal into 1 cup molasses. 
Pour into 1 quart hot milk, and add 

}/2 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

1 tsp. cinnamon Small piece of butter 

Scald all together and cool. Then add 2 beaten eggs, 
and bake 3 hours. When it begins to brown, pour x / 2 cup 
milk over the pudding. Serve hot with sugar and cream 
or with a pudding sauce. 



52 MRS. MARVIN'S 

SNOW PUDDING 

Three tablespoons cornstarch stirred into a little cold 
water. To this add 

1 pt. boiling water y 2 cup sugar 

Add the whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. Cook in double 
boiler and when thick, pour into dish to cool. Add y 2 tea- 
spoon lemon or orange extract. 

SAUCE TO SAME 
Yolks of 3 eggs 1 large cup milk 

y 2 cup sugar 

Cook in double boiler. Flavor. 



STEAMED PUDDING 
1 cup molasses 1 tsp. cloves 

1 cup suet, chopped fine 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup sweet milk y 2 tsp. allspice 

1 cup raisins y 2 tsp. nutmeg 

2y 2 cups flour (pastry) 1 tsp. soda 

Steam about 3 hours. Serve hot, with the following 
sauce, or with hard sauce : 

y 2 cup butter 2 eggs, well beaten 

1 cup sugar 2 tsp. vanilla 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream and add the eggs. 
Beat all together in double boiler. This pudding will keep 
for a long time in cold weather, and can be re-steamed when 
needed. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 cup cracked crumbs 1 sq. chocolate 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

1 pt. scalded milk Pinch of salt 

Melt the chocolate in scalded milk with crumbs. Bake 
V/2 hours. Serve hot with pudding sauce. 



COOK BOOK 53 

APPLE PUDDING 

Fill a buttered pudding dish nearly to the top with 
sliced apples. Pour over this a batter made of 

1 tbsp. butter y 2 cup milk 

y 2 cup sugar 1 cup flour 

1 egg 1 tsp. baking powder 

Bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar and cream 
or with a pudding sauce. 

APPLE DUMPLING 

Fill buttered pudding dish 2/3 full of apples, pared and 
sliced. Mix together thoroughly 
1 cup flour 1 tsp. sugar 

1 tsp. baking powder % cup butter 

y 2 tsp. salt 

Add l / 2 cup milk, and roll, or pat with the hands until it 
is right to fit the top of the pudding dish. Bake. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

1 cup sugar 1 heaping tbsp. flour 

Stirred together. Pour in boiling water, stirring con- 
stantly, until it is the desired consistency. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

RICE PUDDING 

Cook y 2 cup of well-washed rice in double boiler until 
it becomes softened. Drain, add }i cup sugar, pinch of salt, 
1 egg, and 1 quart milk. Bake slowly about 2 hours. 

PLAIN SPICED PUDDING 

y 2 cup butter V/2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

1 egg y 2 tsp. each of cinnamon, 

2/3 cup sour milk clove and allspice 

1 tsp. soda 

Bake like any cake, and eat while warm. Whatever is 

left may be steamed. 



54 MRS. MARVIN'S 

SAUCE FOR SAME 

Cream together 1 cup sugar and 1 tbsp. butter. Add 
1 tsp. vanilla. Add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and last the 
whites of the eggs, beaten firm. 

COLD CABINET PUDDING 

Soak % box of gelatine in % cup cold water until soft. 
Beat yolks of 3 eggs and 3 tablespoons sugar with pinch of 
salt. Over this pour 1 pint hot milk and cook in double 
boiler until slightly thick. Add gelatine and when cool 
flavor strongly with lemon. Decorate a quart mold with 
candied cherries. Put in alternate layers of lady's-fingers, 
macaroons, cherries and custard. Let cool. Use %. pound 
each of lady's-fingers, macaroons, and candied cherries. 



DOWN-EAST PUDDING 

Butter pudding dish well and cover bottom of dish with 
sliced apples, sugared and sprinkled with small pieces of 
butter. Cover with layer of bread crumbs, sprinkled with a 
little cinnamon. Alternate the layers, having the crumbs 
on top. Over this pour a custard (uncooked) made of 1 pint 
milk, 2 eggs, pinch of salt, and J /> cup sugar. Bake slowly 
2 hours. To be eaten hot with pudding sauce. 

This pudding may be varied by using some other kind 
of fruit. If a large pudding dish is used double the amount 
of custard. 



CRACKER CUSTARD PUDDING 

1 qt. milk 1 cup sugar 

3 crackers, rolled fine 1 tsp. lemon 

4 eggs Pinch of salt 

Bake in moderate oven until it is all hardened, except a 
small place in the centre, which will harden in cooling. 



COOK BOOK 55 

POMPADOUR PUDDING 

1 qt. milk y 2 tsp. lemon extract 

3 tbsp. cornstarch 1 cup sugar 

3 eggs (yolks) 

Scald milk and add cornstarch, beaten yolks and sugar. 
Stir well and cook in double boiler until it thickens. Pour 
into pudding dish and frost with : 

1 sq. chocolate 4 tbsp. milk 

y> cup sugar Whites of 3 eggs 

Melt chocolate in milk and add sugar and beaten whites 
of eggs.* Spread over pudding and place in hot oven to set 
the whites of the eggs. 

*Add few drops of vanilla. 



PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

Boil y 2 cup minute tapioca in \y 2 pints water until 
clear. When cool add 1 pint canned pineapple or 1 fresh 
pineapple cut in small pieces and sweetened. Serve with 
cream. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Cook y 2 cup pearl tapioca with y teaspoon salt in 
double boiler until transparent. Fill buttered pudding dish 
2/3 full of sliced sour apples. Sweeten apples slightly, and 
pour over it the cooked tapioca. Bake in moderate oven 
until apples are very soft. Serve hot or cold, with sugar and 
cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

2 eggs 2 heaping cups flour 
}i cup sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

3 tbsp. melted butter J /> tsp. salt 
1 cup milk 

Eaten hot with pudding sauce. 



56 MRS. MARVIN'S 

INDIAN MEAL TAPIOCA 
3 cups milk, heated 2 tbsp. minute tapioca 

2J/2 tbsp. Indian meal, stirred into 1 cup cold milk 
Salt y 2 tsp. cinnamon 

Stir these ingredients into the hot milk and add : 
1 egg 1/3 cup sugar 

Bake in well-buttered pudding dish 2 hours. 

SAUCE FOR SAME 

Cream together y 2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar and 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Add 4 tablespoons of cream. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

1 pt. milk Pinch of salt 

2 eggs 1 tbsp. cornstarch moistened 
Yz cup sugar with cold milk 

Cook in double boiler until thickened, flavor to taste, 
and serve warm or cold, with sugar and cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

To make Charlotte russe add a little dissolved gelatine 
to sweetened and flavored whipped cream to keep it firm. 
Line a fancy dish, or individual glasses, as desired, with 
pieces of cake about the size of lady's fingers, cut from slices 
of sponge cake. Over the cake pile the whipped cream 
lightly. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

Two and one-half tablespoons pearl tapioca covered 
with cold water and soaked over night. In the morning put 
tapioca in double boiler with 1 pint milk, Yi cup sugar and 
pinch of salt. Cook from 20 to 30 minutes, then add the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Cook slightly and remove from fire. 
When cool beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir into the 
custard. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla or lemon. 



COOK BOOK 57 

FRUIT CUSTARD PUDDING 

Use any canned or cooked fruit. Fill pudding dish 
about half full, using only a little juice. Make boiled cus- 
tard, using yolks of the eggs (see directions) and pour cus- 
tard over the fruit. While hot, drop the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff and sweetened, in spoonfuls over the pudding, 
and brown delicately in the oven. Serve cold. 



SPANISH CREAM 

Dissolve Yz box gelatine in \Yi pints milk 1 hour. Cook 
in double boiler. When very hot and gelatine is all dis- 
solved, stir in yolks of 3 eggs beaten with % cup sugar.* 
When done take from the stove, stir in beaten whites of 3 
eggs and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Use egg beater and beat until 
the white of the eggs is reduced to small pieces. 



COFFEE JELLY 

One-half box gelatine soaked in Y CU P c °ld water until 
soft. Add 2/3 cup sugar, 1 pint boiling-hot coffee, and cool. 

NOTE: — Coffee jelly made from left-over coffee is of 
an inferior quality. Use extra care in preparing the coffee 
for jelly, using egg to clear it. Strain carefully on to the 
gelatine, and after stirring until it is all dissolved, allow it 
to settle, and strain again. 

ORANGE JELLY 

Y box gelatine Y* CU P c0 ^ water 

Wlien soft add 1 cup boiling water and stir until dis- 
solved. Add : 

1 pt. orange juice 1 cup sugar 

Juice of 1 lemon 

Strain into cups or molds. 

*Cook only a short time after adding yolks, otherwise 
it will curdle. 



58 MRS. MARVIN'S 

PRUNE WHIP 

One-half pound prunes cooked until soft. Remove 
stones and add ^ cup sugar. Beat together until smooth, 
then add the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat 
all together. Bake in a buttered earthen dish 20 minutes. 
Serve with custard made from the yolks of the eggs, or with 
whipped cream. 

PRUNE-DATE PUDDING 

Stew Yi lb. prunes until soft; stone and chop. Add Yi 
lb. stoned chopped dates, Yz cup of English walnut meats 
chopped, and ^4 CU P sugar. Mix well and add the stiffly 
beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bake 20 minutes and serve cold 
with cream. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD 

1 qt. milk, heated 1 sq. chocolate 

1 cup sugar 2 tbsp. cornstarch 

Cook in double boiler. When thickened to the consist- 
ency of heavy cream, remove from the fire, add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla and pour into individual glasses. Pour through wire 
strainer if it is not entirely smooth. Serve cold. 



CARAMEL CUSTARD 

1 cup granulated sugar 5 eggs 

1 qt. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

Heat milk in double boiler till it skims over. Put sugar 
in sauce pan over hot fire, and when it begins to melt stir 
constantly. When it is smooth brown syrup, stir into the 
milk. Beat yolks of eggs and add to mixture. Add the 
vanilla. Bake like any custard in pan of hot water, either 
as a whole, or in individual cups. When cool, make 
meringue of whites, and brown in oven. If preferred with- 
out the meringue, use 4 eggs for custard. 



COOK BOOK 59 

BOILED CUSTARD 

1 pt. milk Pinch of salt 

*3 eggs (yolks) y 2 tsp. flavoring 

Y2 cup sugar 

Heat milk in double boiler and pour it over the beaten 
eggs, sugar and salt. Return to double boiler and stir con- 
stantly until it begins to thicken. Remove from fire, flavor 
and strain. 

*Two eggs may be used for the same amount of milk 
or 1 egg and 1 teaspoon cornstarch. 

NOTE: — Boiled custard should be watched carefully, 
for it curdles if left to cook a moment too long. When 
curdling occurs, beat the custard with egg beater to restore 
it to smoothness. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Pour cold boiled custard made with the yolks of eggs 
over oranges cut into small pieces. Cover with meringue 
made with whites of the eggs and brown slightly in the 
oven. If subjected to much heat oranges become bitter. 

BAKED APPLES WITH CREAM 

Pare large sour apples and remove cores, leaving apples 
whole. Place in a large, shallow pan, and fill the cavities 
with sugar. Pour 1 cup hot water into dish. Bake the 
apples slowly in order to preserve the shape. When baked 
soft, lift out each apple carefully with a large spoon, and 
arrange on a fancy dish. If any juice is left in pan, pour into 
cavities of the apples. Serve hot or cold with cream. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

Beat the cream until it is nearly thick enough to use, 
then sweeten to taste with powdered sugar, and flavor with 
vanilla. Continue to beat until it is of the desired con- 
sistency. 

Vanilla flavoring is much better than lemon for whipped 
cream. 



60 MRS. MARVIN'S 

FRUIT WHIP 

1 cup water Pinch of salt 

Y^ cup orange juice Sugar to taste 

y$ cup lemon juice 3 eggs (whites) 

3 tbsp. cornstarch 

Put water, fruit juice and salt in double boiler. When 
hot thicken with the cornstarch dissolved in a little cold 
water, and cook 10 minutes. Add the sugar and the whites 
of the eggs beaten foamy. Remove at once from fire. Serve 
cold with a boiled custard made with the yolks of the eggs. 

CUP CUSTARD 
1 pt. milk 2 eggs, beaten slightly 

*/2 cup sugar % tsp. grated nutmeg 

Pinch of salt 

Mix thoroughly and pour into custard cups. Grate a 
slight sprinkling of nutmeg over the top of each custard, 
place the cups in a pan of hot water, and bake in a moderate 
oven. Test by shaking the cup very slightly. When the 
custard is set all but a small place in the centre, remove from 
oven. 

CAKE CUSTARD PUDDING 

Fill pudding dish half full of pieces of stale cake, pour 
over this a boiled custard made with the yolks of eggs. Use 
whites of eggs for meringue, and brown in oven. Serve cold. 

FRUIT CREAM 

1 pt. thick, sweet cream 5 bananas 

5 good-sized oranges y 2 pineapple 

Cut pineapple into small pieces. Remove pulp of 
oranges with orange spoon, keeping pieces unbroken, when 
possible. Drain the juice from both through a wire strainer, 
sweeten a little, then add to the cold juice half a box of gela- 
tine dissolved in a little hot water. When jellied, beat 
lightly with a fork. Whip the cream very stiff and sugar to 
taste — 3 or 4 tablespoons powdered sugar. Slice the bananas 
and add with the rest of fruit and jelly to the cream. Mix 
all together lightly with a fork and you have a most de- 
licious dessert. Serve the same day. 



COOK BOOK 61 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM 

y 2 pt. thick cream y 2 cup English walnuts 

54 lb. plain marshmallows 

Whip the cream and flavor with powdered sugar and 
vanilla extract. Add the marshmallows and the English 
walnuts, both cut into small pieces. Color slightly with 
Burnett's leaf green color paste. 

RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE 

1 loaf baker's bread (fresh) 1-qt. can red raspberries 

Mash the fruit. Slice the bread very thin (not using the 
crust) and cover the bottom of a brick-shaped mould — or 
any dish preferred — with a layer of bread and the fruit 
alternating, pressing down with a spoon. Have the last 
layer of berries. Put in a cold place and let stand a few 
hours. Serve with whipped cream. (Very rich dessert.) 

DESSERT 

One cup coarsely chopped English walnuts, added to 
1 pint whipped cream (sweetened and flavored) and poured 
over 1 dozen lady's fingers, makes a nice dessert which may 
be easily prepared. 

STRAWBERRY DESSERT 

Crush fresh strawberries and sweeten to taste. Pour 
over slices of sponge cake and cover with whipped cream. 
Do not cover cake with strawberries until time to serve 
dessert because the juice moistens the cake too much if 
allowed to stand any length of time. 

RASPBERRY DESSERT 

Beat whites of 2 eggs until firm, then add 4 tablespoons 
raspberry jam. Serve with whipped cream. 

DESSERT 

Over sliced bananas pour canned pineapple and cover 
with whipped cream. 

NOTE: — Canned pineapple is delicious, and may be 
used in such a variety of ways that special directions for 
canning it are given under "Canning." 



62 MRS. MARVIN'S 



Pudding Sauces 

PUDDING SAUCE 

Two tablespoons melted butter and 2/3 cup powdered 
sugar. When cold add 1 well-beaten egg and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

Melt 1 heaping tablespoon butter and add 2 tablespoons 
flour. Stir together until smooth, then add V/ 2 cups hot 
water. When well thickened, add \y 2 cups brown sugar, 
juice of y 2 lemon and a little nutmeg. 

LEMON PUDDING SAUCE 

2 cups sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

Juice of 2 lemons 

Cook in double boiler for 5 or ten minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

Beat 1 e.gg and 1 cup sugar. Boil y 2 cup milk and pour 
over the egg and sugar. Stir and flavor to taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

1 cup hot water 1 tsp, cornstarch moistened 

1 cup sugar in a little cold water 

Boil all together until thickened. Add small piece of 
butter, and flavor to taste. 

HARD SAUCE 

y 2 cup butter 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup confectioners' sugar 

Rub the butter and sugar together until well creamed, 
then add the vanilla. Set in a cool place until it is very 
hard. Serve it in a compact state or shave it in thin slices, 
and place on a fancy dish. 



COOK BOOK 63 

AN EGG PUDDING SAUCE 

2 eggs beaten light 1 tsp. vanilla 

\y 2 cups sugar Pinch of salt 

Juice of l /2 lemon 

Stir all together in double boiler and add enough boiling 
water to make it the consistency of molasses. Stir occa- 
sionally. When heated it should be foamy. Very rich, 
best served with a plain pudding. 

FOAM SAUCE 

Boil together 1 cup each of sugar and water. Mix thor- 
oughly 1 tablespoon flour, a little cold water and the yolk 
of 1 egg, and stir into the boiling syrup until it thickens. 

Beat the white of 1 egg until firm, and turn the mixture 
into it, beating rapidly. Add a pinch of salt and a small 
piece of butter. Flavor with vanilla or with lemon juice. 



64 MRS. MARVIN'S 



Pies 

PIE CRUST 

1 cup flour 1 mixing spoon lard 

34 tsp. baking powder 2 tbsp. cold water 

34 tsp. salt 

For some time before making pie crust leave the lard 
pail in a warm place. This is directly contrary to the reg- 
ulation rule for pie crust, which almost invariably reads, 
"Have all materials as cold as possible." Using the lard 
warmed, follow directions carefully if you wish to make the 
tenderest possible pie crust. Put all the ingredients but the 
water into a large mixing bowl, and mix together with the 
hands. Herein lies the whole secret. When the lard is 
"well" rubbed into the flour do not stop. Continue manipu- 
lating with the hands until you have a creamy mixture re- 
sembling butter and sugar when well creamed together. 
This is neither a difficult process, nor a long one (provided 
the lard is not cold) and the results are highly satisfactory. 
When ingredients are thoroughly creamed together, with 
no loose particles, add the cold water, and cut it in with a 
knife or with the edge of the spoon. At the last, add a 
small handful of flour to bring it together, and it is ready 
for use. 

TARTS 

This rule for pie crust makes excellent tarts. If you 
wish to have tarts a little out of the ordinary, cook the small 
rounds cut from the centers, and when the tarts are filled, 
place one of the rounds, or circles, on top of the filling to 
each tart. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Mix together : 

1 cup flour Pinch of salt 

2 cups grated cheese 1 tsp. baking powder 
1 tbsp. melted butter 

Mix with cold water until it is like pie crust. Roll out 
thin, cut in strips, and bake. 



COOK BOOK 65 

LEMON PIE 

Juice of 1 lemon, and part of 1 tbsp. cornstarch 

the grated rind if wished 1 cup boiling water 
1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

Butter size of an egg 2 eggs 

Cook in double boiler until thickened. Pour into deep 
pie plate lined with pie crust already baked and cooled. Just 
before serving, sift confectioners' sugar over the top. Serve 
fresh. 

EXTRA LEMON PIE 
Juice of 1 lemon 2 tbsp. flour stirred into the 

Grated rind of ]/ 2 lemon sugar 

1 whole egg 1 small cup hot water 

3 yolks Pinch of salt 

1 cup sugar 

Cook in double boiler. 

FROSTING 

Whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and 4 table- 
spoons sugar. Spread on pie, and brown in oven. 

ORANGE PIE 

Follow directions for lemon pie, substituting orange 
juice for lemon juice. Use juice of 1J>2 oranges, and grated 
rind of '/£ orange. 

NOTE: — When baking pie crust without any filling, 
prick the crust with a fork in a large number of places before 
baking. This prevents the heat from drawing it away from 
the edge of the plate. 

CREAMY LEMON PIE 
1 cup sugar Juice of 1 large lemon 

1 cup milk Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tbsp. flour 

Mix flour with a little of the cold milk and add to milk 
and sugar in double boiler. Cook until thick, then add juice 
of lemon and yolks of 2 eggs beaten slightly. Pour into 
plate lined with a baked crust, and use whites of eggs for 
meringue. 



66 MRS. MARVIN'S 

CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs 1 pt. milk 

J4 cup sugar Salt 

Add a small amount of nutmeg, and just before putting 
pie into the oven, sprinkle a little nutmeg over the top. 
Bake with one crust. 

SQUASH PIE 

1 large cup squash 1 large cup milk 

Stir together and strain. 
1 egg Sugar to taste 

Salt Season with grated nutmeg 

Bake with one crust. 

COCOANUT PIE 

%. lb. prepared cocoanut 1 cup milk 

2 eggs Butter size of half an egg 

24 cup sugar 

Rub the bottom crust of the pie with part of the un- 
beaten white of an egg to prevent the crust from becoming 
soaked with the custard. Bake without an upper crust. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

1 pineapple shredded or cut 1 cup water 

in very small pieces 2 tbsp. flour 

1 cup sugar Small piece of butter 

2 eggs 

Bake with 2 crusts. This makes two pies. 

CREAM FILLING FOR PIE 

1 pt. milk Salt 

2 eggs (yolks) 1 tbsp. cornstarch 
y cup sugar 1 tsp. flavoring 

Cook in double boiler until thick. Pour into deep pie 
plate lined with baked pie crust. Use the whites of the eggs 
for meringue and brown in oven. 



COOK BOOK 67 

CRANBERRY-RAISIN PIE 

Y2 cup chopped raisins 1 cup chopped cranberries 

(measured after chop- 1 cup sugar 
ping) y 2 cup hot water 

Boil together 10 minutes, cool, and add 1 tsp. vanilla. 
Bake with 2 crusts. This makes 1 pie. 

"CONNECTICUT" PIE 

Fill pie plate with sliced apples, using no under crust. 
Do not sweeten or season the apples. Cover with pie crust 
and bake. While still hot, carefully remove the crust (use 
griddle-cake turner) and place it upside down on another 
plate. Season the apple to taste, and spread it over the 
inverted crust. Dot generously with small pieces of butter 
and place in the oven long enough to melt butter. Serve 
hot. Eaten with whipped cream this is especially rich. 

PRUNE PIE 

2 cups prunes, after stewing 

Remove stones, crush the prunes, and add juice of y 2 
lemon and Ya cu P sugar. Stir together thoroughly and bake 
with 2 crusts. This makes 1 pie. 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

1 cup sour cream Pinch of salt 

1 cup sugar 1 cup raisins, chopped fine 

1 egg 

Bake with two crusts. 

CUSTARD-PRUNE PIE 

To make 1 pie, take \y 2 cups stewed prunes, cut them in 
halves, remove the pits, and lay into deep plate lined with 
piecrust. Beat together : 

1 egg 1 cup milk 

Y cup sugar A little nutmeg 

Pour this over the prunes, and bake pie without an 
upper crust. 



68 MRS. MARVIN'S 

FIG PIE 

Chop 1 pound figs and boil in 1 pint water until soft. 
Add: 

y 2 lb. chopped raisins 
Juice of iy 2 lemons 
\ l / 2 cups sugar 

Bake with 2 crusts. This makes two thick pies. 



1 or 2 eggs 

Butter size of an tgg 



GRANDMA'S MINCE MEAT 



4 lbs. beef, boiled and 
chopped 

1 pan apples (after par- 
ing), chopped fine 

1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. mace 

1 scant tsp. cloves 

Put away in fruit jars what is not wanted for immediate 
use. When opened thin with a small amount of cold coffee 
and a little cider vinegar. 



2 cups molasses 

2 cups boiled cider 

4 cups sugar 

Meat broth, 1 or 2 cups 

1 pt. coffee 

Salt if needed 

% tsp. black pepper 



FRUIT MINCE MEAT 



3 lbs. lean beef 
1 lb. suet 

1 peck apples 

2 lbs. raisins 

1 lb. currants 
y 2 lb. citron 

% lb. preserved orange peel 
Y\ lb. preserved lemon peel 



2 cups boiled cider 
1 cup water 

Broth the meat was boiled in 

3 lbs. brown sugar 

1 lb. white sugar 

2 tbsp. cinnamon 

1 dessertsp. cloves 
Salt to taste 



Keep in glass jars. This makes about 8 quarts. 



COOK BOOK 69 



Candy 



MAPLE CREAM CANDY 

4 cups light brown sugar 1 tsp. butter 
l / 2 cup milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup chopped nut meats 

Boil sugar and milk until it hardens in water. Add 
butter and vanilla, and lastly the nuts. Pour into buttered 
tin, cool, and cut in squares. 

PEPPERMINTS 

2 cups sugar 5 drops oil of peppermint 
l / 2 cup water 

Boil sugar and water 3 minutes without stirring. Add 
peppermint, beat till creamy, with dish in cold water. When 
just right to drop, place dish in hot water or the mixture will 
harden too quickly. Drop on unbuttered tins. 

FUDGE 

2 cups sugar Butter size of walnut 

2 sq. chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 

y 2 cup milk 

Add butter and vanilla the last thing before removing 
from fire. Cook ingredients until the candy folds together 
in cold water, not until it becomes brittle. 

FRUIT FUDGE 

Make fudge according to above rule, and after removing 
from the fire add from l /^ to l / 2 cup of each of the following 
cut in small pieces : 

Raisins Prepared cocoanut 

Dates English walnuts 

Figs Almonds 

Marshmallows Candied cherries 

Pineapple (without juice) 



70 MRS. MARVIN'S 

COCOANUT CREAM CARAMELS 

One-fourth-pound package of cocoanut chopped very- 
fine or put through the meat chopper. 

Boil together 2 cups sugar and Yz cup water without 
stirring, until it folds together firmly when tested in cold 
water. Remove from fire, allow it to stand a moment, then 
add 1 tsp. vanilla and the chopped cocoanut. Pour it into 
a buttered tin and press until smooth. Mark it in squares 
while it is warm. When cold break it apart, and, if wished, 
roll each square in a piece of waxed paper, like caramels. 

FRUIT GLACE 

2 cups sugar y% tsp. cream of tartar 

1 cup boiling water 

When it reaches the boiling point boil without stirring 
until it hardens in cold water. Place nuts, figs, dates, or 
any fruit desired in a buttered (oblong) pan, and over these 
pour the syrup. Use English walnuts alone, if preferred. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

Melt 1 pound granulated sugar over hot fire, stirring 
constantly to prevent burning. Add 1 cup chopped peanuts. 
Pour into buttered tin, and when cold, break in pieces 

CREAMY CANDY 

2 cups sugar 3 tbsp. milk 

Melt sugar and add coloring at once. Boil without 
stirring until it folds quite firm in water. Remove from 
stove and let it cool while getting ready to add butter size 
of an egg, pinch of salt, flavoring, and y 2 cup English wal- 
nuts broken (not fine). Stir until it is nearly creamed, and 
pour into a buttered pan. Very nice to make the rule three 
times and pour one layer over another. Color 1 part green 
and flavor with pistachio ; another part pink, and flavor with 
wintergreen, and another part chocolate and flavor with 
vanilla. 



COOK BOOK 71 

CANDY LOAF 

1 cup molasses 1 tsp. vanilla 

\y 2 cups sugar y 2 lb. figs or dates, cut fine 

yi tsp. soda 3 lbs. mixed nuts, cut fine 

Y* cup butter "■ * 

Boil molasses and sugar until brittle when tested 
in cold water, then add soda. Remove from fire, stir in 
vanilla, figs (or dates), and nuts. Pack in buttered bread 
tin. Slice in 24 hours. 

CREAM WALNUTS 

Stir powdered sugar into the white of an egg until it is 
thick enough to shape. Flavor with vanilla. Roll small 
pieces into balls, and press y> of an English walnut on each 
side. Vary by using yolk instead of white of egg if you 
wish a different color. Or add a little melted chocolate to 
the white for chocolate cream walnuts. 



PRESERVED ORANGE PEEL 

Soak orange peel in cold water for a week, changing the 
water every day. Pour off water, put orange peel into hot 
water and boil until tender, then press out all of the water, 
and cut into small pieces. Use 1 coffee cup sugar to 6 
oranges. Dissolve sugar in water, and boil without stirring 
until it hardens in cold water. Add the orange peel and cook 
until the moisture is absorbed, and the syrup candies on the 
spoon. Place on buttered plates, and sprinkle with confec- 
tioners' sugar. If liked sweeter, use a large amount of sugar. 



FONDANT 

2 cups sugar J / 2 cup water 

Dissolve, and boil without stirring until it folds to- 
gether quite firm when tested in water. Pour into a large 
unbuttered platter, and after it has stood about 2 minutes 
stir with a spoon, bringing it all in from the edges. Con- 
tinue stirring until it thickens too much to stir easily, then 



72 MRS. MARVIN'S 

set in cold place until it is cool enough to handle, but not 
cold. Mold in the hands for some time into 1 large or 2 
smaller balls, and set away again, leaving it until it is quite 
cold. Now it is ready for the candy, although the cooking 
teacher, through whom this receipt was indirectly received, 
stated that candy makers do not use fondant until it is at 
least a month old. Decide how many flavors you wish to 
use, and divide the fondant into a corresponding number of 
pieces. Flavor each lump to taste, vanilla, orange, pepper- 
mint, wintergreen, etc., and shape into pieces the size you 
wish to dip. Cover l / 2 English walnut in each piece of 
vanilla-flavored fondant. For the chocolate for this amount 
of candy, buy l / 2 pound of coating chocolate. Put the choc- 
olate in double boiler without any water, and let it melt 
down, being careful that the hot water in the lower part 
of the double boiler does not boil. When the chocolate is 
melted, dip the pieces of candy and drop them on waxed 
paper. Leave until quite cold, and they can easily be re- 
moved from the paper. 



FILLED DATES 

Carefully remove the pits from perfect dates. Inside 
each date place an utfsalted peanut, press together again, 
and roll in powdered sugar. 

POPCORN BALLS 

\ l / 2 cups molasses 1 tbsp. vinegar 

Boil together until it hardens in water; add % teaspoon 
soda. Pour it over 6 quarts popped corn, and shaped into 
balls as soon as it is cool enough to handle. Butter the 
hands well before shaping the balls. 



COOK BOOK 73 

Ice-Cream and Sherbet 



STRAWBERRY ICE 

2 boxes strawberries Juice of 2 lemons 

3 cups sugar Whites of 3 eggs 

1 qt. water 

Mash and strain the berries to get the seeds out. Add 
beaten whites of eggs the last thing or when the ice is 
half frozen. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Juice of 1 medium-sized pineapple. Juice of V/2 lemon. 
Add enough cold water to make 1 pint. 

2 cups sugar 1 qt. milk 

COFFEE ICE-CREAM 

To one quart of ice-cream add l / 2 cup strong coffee. 

PINEAPPLE ICE-CREAM 

For 1 quart ice-cream use 1 medium-sized pineapple 
grated, and juice of 1 lemon. 

STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM 

l / 2 pt. cream 1 cup sugar 

V/ 2 pts. milk 1 cup strawberry juice 

PEACH ICE-CREAM 

34 to 1/3 qt. of cream l l A cups sugar 

Add milk to make 1 qt. 
1 cup peach after pressing through a strainer 



74 MRS. MARVIN'S 

VANILLA ICE-CREAM 

1 pt. cream 2 cups sugar 
\y 2 qts. milk 1 tbsp. vanilla 

BANANA ICE-CREAM 

To 1 qt. plain ice-cream add 1 cup banana, measured 
after straining or crushing. 

COLLEGE ICE 

Over "Vanilla Ice-Cream" pour crushed and sweetened 
fruit of any kind desired. Fresh fruit is preferable, but 
canned fruits are excellent provided they are "home-made." 

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM 

To one quart of plain ice-cream add 1 square of choco- 
late thoroughly softened, and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Juice of 4 lemons 1 qt. milk 

2 heaping cups sugar 1 pt. water 



Drinks 

Stir lemon juice, water and sugar together and pour 
into the freezer. Add the milk the last thing and begin to 
freeze immediately. 

CHOCOLATE 

"Barker's Hasty Lunch Chocolate" makes the most de- 
licious drink of any chocolate I have used. If lump choc- 
olate is used, follow directions given below : 

1 sq. chocolate 2 tbsp. water 

2 tbsp. sugar Pinch of salt 

Boil until smooth, stirring constantly. Add : 
1 pt. boiling water 1 pt. hot milk 

If liked richer, use all milk and 2 squares chocolate. 



COOK BOOK 75 

EGG CHOCOLATE 

y 2 lb. "Barker's Hasty 1 lb. sugar 

Lunch" chocolate 1 pt. water 

Boil together for 10 minutes, stirring often to prevent 
burning. Keep in cool place. Beat well 1 egg, add cream 
if desired, fill the glass with milk, and stir in 2 teaspoons 
of the chocolate. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB 

Take any quantity of raspberries desired. Cover with 
strong vinegar, and let stand over night. In the morning 
strain and add a pint of sugar to a pint of juice. Boil 20 
minutes and skim. Bottle when cold. Use as lime juice, 
adding 1 or 2 teaspoons to glass of water, according to taste, 
and sweeten more if desired. Fine summer drink. 



GRAPE JUICE 

Stem and wash grapes. For each 4 quarts allow 1 cup 
of water, and scald so that the pulp and skin will separate. 
Let drip in jelly bag over night, and in the morning meas- 
ure. To each quart of juice add Y cup sugar. Bring to the 
boiling point and bottle at once. When thoroughly cold, 
press down stopples, turn bottles upside down and dip 2 or 3 
times in melted paraffin. 

LEMONADE 

Lemonade in which a little nutmeg has been grated is 
pleasant to the taste, and less likely to cause indigestion at 
night. 

ICED TEA 

To 1 quart cold tea add juice of 1 lemon, add y 2 lemon 
sliced thin. Sweeten to taste, and a few minutes before 
serving, add ice. 

NOTE: — Some people prefer to make lemonade and 
add a small amount of cold tea. 



76 MRS. MARVIN'S 

RASPBERRY LEMONADE OR FRUIT PUNCH 

(For 75 or 80 People) 

4 doz. lemons 1 cup strong tea 

2 oranges, quartered and 2 bananas, cut into small 

sliced very thin cubes 

1 cup raspberry syrup 

Extract the lemon juice the night before, sweeten, and 
put it into a jar or jug to keep the strength. Into the punch 
bowl put a piece of ice about as large as a brick, pour in the 
lemon juice with an equal amount of water or a little more. 
Add the other ingredients, and more sugar if needed. This 
quantity ought to make enough lemonade for 3 glasses 
apiece for 80 people. 

NOTE : — I have not made the full quantity at any time, 
but have made less, being very careful to keep to the propor- 
tions, and it is a very fine beverage. — The Author. 



AMBROSA 

1 grape fruit, prepared as for 4 oranges, prepared by re- 
serving moving pulp with orange 

1 pineapple, shredded or cut spoon 

* 1 qt. strawberries Sugar each kind of fruit as 

2 lemons, pared and sliced prepared 

thin 3 qts. water 

When fruit is all prepared mix it together in large bowl 
and let it stand several hours, then add water and more 
sugar if desired, and serve in small lemonade glasses like 
an ice. 

*If strawberries are not in season, substitute some other 
fruit. 



FRUIT MIXTURE 

Use fruit formula given for Fruit Salad as a winter 
sauce. 



COOK BOOK 77 



Canning and Preserving 



CANNING 

Use first quality fruit and prepare it carefully. Measure 
it when ready for the kettle. Add hot water to barely cover 
fruit, or if much juice is liked, use more hot water. Allow 
the fruit to come to the boiling point, and, if pears, peaches, 
or kindred fruit, allow them to boil slowly until tender when 
tried with a fork. Strawberries, raspberries and tomatoes 
require very little cooking. 

When fruit is cooked sufficiently, add sugar and let it 
boil up again, when it is ready for the jars. 

One cup of sugar to 1 quart of fruit is the general rule, 
and one soon learns which fruits require more sugar. (Plums 
are a notable example.) 

There are two ways, equally good, of filling jars without 
breaking them. The first, most generally used, is to roll the 
jar in very warm water, place a silver spoon in the jar, and 
fill with the boiling fruit. 

The following way is sometimes more convenient, and 
s quite as good. Wring a cloth (an old Turkish towel folded 
crosswise is good) from a pan of cold water. Smooth out, 
leaving it double, place the jar in the centre of the cloth, and 
bring the cloth up around the sides of the jar, about half way 
to the top. Use a silver spoon in the jar, as for other method. 
In either case, fill the fruit rather slowly for the first two 
cups. After jar is filled and cover screwed on, test by turn- 
ing upside down. If the juice leaks out, remove the top of 
the jar and add another rubber (making two on the jar). 
This usually remedies the trouble, but if not, it is well to try 
another cover, for the Mason jar covers frequently become 
bent. 

It is a saving in the end to use new rubbers each year. 

In some places these can be procured by the pound, making 

the cost very slight, even where a large amount of canning 

|&is done. In setting away the jars to cool, leave spaces be- 

Htween so that no jar shall touch another. 



78 MRS. MARVIN'S 

CANNED PINEAPPLE 

Cut pineapples in circles, or rounds with carving knife. 
Peel with sharp apple knife, and remove the "eyes." Slash 
all the way around from circumference to the core at the 
centre, then cut around the circle until reaching the centre. 
This leaves the pineapple in small pieces. 

Measure the fruit and allow 1 cup of sugar for each 
quart. Cover with boiling water and let it boil (covered) 
until tender, then add sugar, let it come to the boiling point, 
and can at once. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

Wash the fruit and cut into small pieces, without paring 
or coring. Barely cover with cold water and set on stove. 
Boil and mash them until soft, then drain in a bag over 
night. In the morning measure the juice, and add an equal 
amount of sugar, and boil until it jellies. 

CANNED CORN 
9 cups sweet corn 1 cup sugar 

1 cup salt 1 cup water 

Boil together 5 minutes. Put in cans and seal. Keep 
in dark place. Freshen before using. 

RHUBARB JELLY 

Cut the stalks (after washing) in small pieces, but do 
not peel. Add water to barely cover, cook until tender, and 
drain in jelly bag. Boil juice 20 minutes, add sugar, in equal 
quantity, and boil until it jellies. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Wash and drain grapes that are not quite ripe and heat 
in kettle without adding water. Mash the heated grapes 
until skins are broken, then drain in jelly bag, and use juice, 
following directions for currant jelly. 

CURRANT JELLY 

Mash currants, using those not too ripe, and drain in a 
jelly bag over night in a cool place. In the morning measure 
the juice, and allow 1 quart of sugar to each quart of juice. 
Boil the juice 20 minutes and skim thoroughly. Add the 
sugar, and when it reaches the boiling point allow it to boil 



COOK BOOK 79 

3 to 5 minutes. Strain through fine wire strainer into 
glasses, and when cold cover with jelly wax. Equal parts of 
currants and raspberries make a delicious jelly. 

RASPBERRY OR BLACKBERRY JAM 

(Mrs. Lincoln) 
Pick over and mash the fruit; allow 1 pound of sugar 
to 1 pound of fruit. Put the fruit and one quarter of the 
sugar into a granite or porcelain kettle; when boiling, add 
another quarter of the sugar, boil again, add more sugar, and 
when all is used let it boil till it hardens on the spoon in the 
air. Cooking in only a little sugar at a time prevents the 
fruit from becoming hard. 

PRUNE MARMALADE 

2y 2 lbs. prunes, cooked and 6 fine, large cooking apples, 

stoned pared and sliced 

Juice of 4 lemons 2 cups sugar 

Simmer together until apple is thoroughly cooked, tak- 
ing care that there is sufficient water to keep from scorching, 
then beat through a coarse strainer and set away in jars to 
keep for use. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVE 

Allow 1 pound sugar to 1 pound of tomato, sliced, and 
add 2 sliced lemons to each pound of fruit. Cook slowly 
until the tomato is transparent and very tender. 

CRANBERRIES 

Put 1 pint washed cranberries in a granite saucepan, 
add: 
1 cup sugar Yz cup water 

After they begin to boil, cook 10 minutes, closely cov- 
ered, without stirring. They will be jellied when cool. 

APPLE SAUCE 

Over freshly pared and sliced apples pour boiling water, 
and cook rapidly until tender, without stirring. Add 1 cup 
sugar for each quart of fruit, stir it in thoroughly and allow 
apple sauce to come to a boil. 

NOTE :— Core apples carefully in order that no pieces 
of the hull may be left. 



80 MRS. MARVIN'S COOK BOOK 

HOW TO COOK RHUBARB 

Wash rhubarb stalks and cut into small pieces without 
peeling. Cover with boiling water and let stand for 5 min- 
utes, then drain off the water. This takes away the strong 
acid taste which requires so much sugar to overcome if it 
is left in. Cover rhubarb again with boiling water and pour 
over it all the sugar that is to be used for sweetening, but 
do not stir. Set it back on the stove where it will simmer, 
but not boil, and allow it to cook for 2, 3, or even 4 hours, 
and you will have a fine sauce. This keeps perfectly when 
canned hot. 

GRAPE FRUIT 

Cut fruit in halves crosswise, and with a sharp knife, cut 
all of the way around each division. Remove the pulp and 
squeeze out the remaining juice. Be careful not to take any 
of the membranes that form the partitions, because they are 
bitter. Cover fruit with sugar, and let it stand in a cool 
place several hours. Serve in lemonade cups with candied 
cherries on top. 

Now, good digestion wait on appetite, 

And health on both. — Macbeth. 



APPENDIX 

A word of advice : To be a really good housekeeper one 
should see that all food supplies are replenished before the 
store is exhausted. 

An excellent way is to have paper and pencil alwa) in 
one — not "a" — convenient place; whenever, in cooki. - r , 
there is enough left of a given article for use only one or two 
times more, write the name of the article at once, and do not 
try to depend on the memory. In this way one can easily 
keep every needed supply on hand, and avoid the epithet, 
"borrowing neighbor." 

Neither a borrower, nor a lender be ; 
For loan oft loses both itself and friend, 
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry. 

— Hamlet, Prince of Denmark. 



One copy del. to Oat. Div. 



Mm 24 isjft 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




oMan's test of a good 
housekeeper is the kind 
of a dinner she can cook 



