
Economy" 
Cook Book 






Class 
Book. 






■ L 



Copyright^ - 



COPYRIGHT DEFOSIT. 



% 



»•» 



The 

L.conomy Cook Book 




"The turnpike road to people's hearts, I find, 
Leads thai their mouths, or I mistake mankind" 



Printed by the Inter Aid Bureau 

Streator, Illinois 

1910 






PRACTICAL HAND BOOK 

FOR THE 

HOUSEHOLD COOK 

Copyright 1910 by Edward A. Harrii 



CCLA256862 



GREETING 



This little book goes forth as the result of the earnest 
effort of its authors to meet the need felt by so many, 
for a concise, well arranged, practical, all around book 
of rules for the average housewife. These recipes are 
the favorites of the most painstaking, economical cooks 
we know. 

The appeal to your interest is based upon the intrinsic 
merit of the contents, which are offered with our strong- 
est recommendation. 

THE COMPILERS. 



INDEX 



Pagt 

Weights and Measures 6 

Soup 7 

Oysters 13 

Fish 16 

A 1 eat s, Eggs and Cheese 20 

Vegetables . . 31 

Salads. Dressings 37 

Sandwiches 42 

I'uddings I i 

Pies 5G 

Cakes 62 

Cookies 80 

Rread, Cornbreacl and Muffins 87 

Gingerbread and Doughnuts 96 

Pancakes, Waffles and Fritters 100 

Pickles 104 

Fruit 110 

Frozen Dainties 115 

Beverages 119 

Candy 121 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

1 quart of flour 1 pound 

2 cups butter 1 pound 

1 generous pint of liquid 1 pound 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 pound 

2 heaping cups powdered sugar 1 pound 

1 pint finely chopped meat, packed 1 pound 

10 eggs 1 pound 

1 pound melted butter 1 quart 

1 pound, 8 ounces Indian meal 1 quart 

4 cups liquid 1 quart 

4 large tablespoons full -}- gill 

8 large tablespoons full 1 gill 

4 level teaspoonfuls 1 tablespi >i m 



SOUP 



"If you do expect spoon meat, bespeak a long spoon." 



Soup Stock. 

The word stock, when used in cooking, means the 
foundation or basis upon which soups and sauces depend. 
It is therefore the most important part of soup making. 
Care should be exercised that nothing in the least tainted 
or decayed enters the stock pot. It is very desirable 
that soup stock should be prepared a day or two before 
it is wanted. The seasoning should be added in modera- 
tion at first, as it is difficult to restore a soup that has 
been damaged by over-seasoning. Milk or cream should 
be boiled and strained and added hot when intended for 
soups. When eggs are used, beat them thoroughly and 
add while the soup is hot ; should they be added when 
the soup is boiling, they are very apt to separate and 
give the soup the appearance of having curdled ; the 
best plan is to beat up the egg with a little of the warm 
soup, then add to the soup gradually. In summer, soup 
stock should be boiled from day to day if kept any length 
of time, else it may become sour. Should this happen, 
add a piece of charcoal to the soup, boil, cool, and strain 
into freshly scalded earthen or porcelain-lined ware. 
On no account allow the soup stock to become cold in 
an iron pot or saucepan. 

Kidney Bean Soup. 

Soak 1 quart kidney beans over night, place them over 
a slow fire with just enough water to cover them, with 
1 large onion, and let boil or simmer until tender. 
When done press through a colander or sieve. To each 
cup of beans, add one cup of milk, season to taste and 
add a little butter, slice 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 small lemon, 
pour soup over this and serve boiling hot. 

7 



SOUP. 

Clear Soup. 

Procure a small soup bone, place in kettle and cover 
with cold water ; when boiling, add an onion, a carrot, 
roots and trimmings of celery, and four cloves ; simmer 
five hours ; strain and set aside to cool ; remove all grease; 
return to kettle, and, when lukewarm, break two eggs 
with shell into the soup; stir continually until a thick 
scum arises on top ; cook a few minutes and strain 
through cheese cloth ; season with salt and a dash of red 
pepper; slice a lemon crosswise in very thin slices, and 
serve one slice in each plate of soup. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

Boil one bunch of asparagus in a quart of salted water 
for 20 minutes, drain, save the water, and press the 
asparagus through a colander. Put a quart of milk in a 
farina boiler, add to it a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, and 
a piece of onion. Rub together 2 ozs. of butter and 3 
even tablespoons of flour, add a little of the milk to this 
to make it liquid, then stir it into the boiling milk, and 
stir continually until it thickens. Have the asparagus 
and the water hot, mix the two together season and 
serve. 

Macaroni Soup. 

One coffee cup of stock, one coffee cup macaroni cut 
in small pieces, two quarts of water and one cup of 
cooked tomato; add pepper, salt and butter; not to be 
strained. 

Bean Soup. 

Wash the beans and boil them with salt pork. When 
soft, take them out and pass through the colander, then 
put them back in the same water they were boiled in, 
with four hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, a lemon sliced, 
and a little pepper if you like it. Boil again and serve. 



SOUP. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Put one-half gallon new milk into a double boiler, 
with a large tablespoon of butter, salt and pepper to taste. 
Stew a can of tomatoes, when thoroughly hot put in a 
level teaspoon of soda and strain into the milk. 

Rice Scup. 

One quart chicken stock or broth, \ cup rice, 1 pint 
of milk, salt and pepper and a bay leaf; also one table- 
spoon each of butter and flour. 

Pea Soup. 

Take soup bone, put into about 4 quarts cold water, 
2 or 3 pints split peas, according" to required thickness, 
1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions, 1 stalk of celery, pepper and 
salt. Soak peas over night in warm water, then put 
with sliced vegetables into soup and boil 2 hours, stirring 
often to prevent burning, if wished it may be put through 
sieve. Serve with toasted bread cut in squares. Green 
peas for soup need no soaking. 

Oyster Soup. 

Scald oysters in their own liquor, add generous piece 
of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Turn into that 
boiling water enough for the required amount. When 
ready to serve, turn in a cup of sweet cream or more if 
a large amount of soup is wanted. 

Potato Soup. 

Peel and slice 6 potatoes and 2 onions, boil in 1 quart 
of water until soft, then add 2 tablespoons butter, 1 quart 
hot milk, 1 tablespoon flour wet with a little milk. Salt 
and pepper to taste. 

9 



SOUP. 

Cream Pea Soup. 

One pint canned peas, 1 quart milk, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 2 even tablespoons Hour, salt and pepper to taste. 
Press peas through colander. Put milk to boil in farina 
boiler, as soon as milk boils add peas. Rub butter and 
flour together, add to boiling soup, stir constantly until 
it thickens. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Chop together 1 carrot; 2 potatoes; 1 cup tomatoes; 
1 onion; 3 stalks celery; a little parsley. Pod, strain 
and add 1 tablespoon cooked rice. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Put a soup bone into 5 quarts of cold water and put 
on to boil at eight o'clock. At ten o'clock put in about 
j of a small head of cabbage, 2 onions, .'5 good-sized 
potatoes, ^ carrot, 4- turnip. Slice vegetables thin. About 
fifteen minutes before serving, add 4 can of corn. Take 
a cup of flour, break into it 1 egg, toss lightly together 
with hands until you use all the flour the egg will take 
in leaving it in crumbs; drop crumbs in boiling soup 
and boil solvvly about 10 minutes and when ready to 
serve add 1 cup sweet cream. 

Noodle Soup. 

Take a soup bone and cover with water, after boiling 
substance out take out bone and drop in noodles made 
as follows: Noodles. To about 1 quart of flour, break 
in 2 eggs and a little salt ; mix it with milk or water to 
roll Roll thin and let dry 2 hours, after dry roll up and 
cut fine, shake apart and drop into the boiling broth that 
has been seasoned with salt and pepper and onion if 
desired, let boil 1-1 minutes and serve. 

10 



SOUP. 

Tomato and Macaroni Soup. 

Break 6 dozen sticks of macaroni in pieces, drop in 
hot water, cook 1 hour, sift 2 quarts tomatoes (canned) 
when macaroni is done, drain, cut in tiny rings and add 
to tomatoes Season with salt, pepper, sugar and butter. 

Baked Bean Soup. 

One cup cold baked beans, 1 quart boiling water ; sim- 
mer all the morning on the back of stove, with 1 sliced 
onion, 1 stalk of celery and six cloves ; beat 1 quart of 
rich milk and add; sift and rub all the beans through the 
sieve ; salt to taste. This soup all depends on the quality 
of the milk. 

Cream cf Celery. 

Cut celery stalks into £-inch lengths and boil till ten- 
der. Drain off liquor and to it add milk, a generous 
piece of butter. Boil, pepper, salt and thicken to taste. 
Unblanched leaves may also be used. 

Corn Soup. 

One cup canned corn, 1 cup cold water, '? cups milk, 
1 even tablespoon flour, one tablespoon butter, bit of 
onion, salt and pepper; cook corn in water; let milk 
and onion come to boil ; put butter into saucepan and 
stir till it melts and bubbles, be careful not to brown it ; 
add flour and stir until well mixed ; to this add a few table- 
spoons hot milk; when smooth, stir into milk and cook; 
add corn, salt and pepper. 

Chicken Soup. 

After the chicken is boiled done, take 1 quart of the 
liquor or soup ; then take 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoon of 
butter. 1 tablespoon of flour ; put the butter in a spider 
and melt it ; have it hot and brown the flour in it ; then 
put the butter, flour and milk into the soup or liquor; 
season to taste ; let it boil. It is then ready to serve. 

11 



SOUP. 

Veal Soup. 

Put a^ knuckle of veal into 3 quarts cold water with a 
small quantity of salt, 1 small tablespoon of rice, un- 
cooked. Boil slowly, hardly above simmering-, 4 hours, 
when the liquor should be reduced to half the quantity. 
Remove from fire. Into the tureen put the yolk of 1 egg 
beaten together with 1 cup sweet cream, a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut; on this strain the soup, boiling hot, 
stirring all the time. Just at last beat well for a minute. 

Croutons. 

Cut bread in little pieces and fry light-brown in butter. 
Drain on paper and serve with soup. 

Or cut stale bread into cubes, put in a pan, bake in 
hot oven to a trolden brown. 



OYSTERS 



'Thcu who dost dwell 
In the heart of the shell." 



Fried Oysters. 

One pint oysters, 1 egg, salt and pepper; drain the 
oysters ; beat egg very light and mix with oysters. Stir 
fine cracker crumbs into the oysters and egg until the 
mixture can be lifted with a spoon and made into pats ; 
then roll in fine cracker crumbs and drop them in hot fat 
until nicely browned ; serve on hot platter. 

Oyster Patties. 

Scald oysters until the edges begin to curl; drain and 
drop them into the sauce ; let stand for 5 minutes. Sauce : 
— 1 pint sweet cream or milk, 1 small tablespoon butter, 
2 tablespoons flour, salt to taste. Crust : — 2 cups flour, 
1 cup butter, | cup water; roll j inch thick; line patty 
tins: fill with the oysters and sauce. 1 or 2 oysters are 
sufficient for 1 patty. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

( )ne pint oysters, drained well ; 2 cups mashed potatoes, 
whipped creamy ; 2 cups cracker crumbs ; form into cro- 
quettes and roll in cracker crumbs and beaten yolk of 
egg; drop in hot lard and brown. Serve with peas or 
white sauce. 

Dressing for Oyster Cocktail. 

One tablespoon vinegar, 1 tablespoon tomato catsup, 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons lemon 
juice, 5 teaspoon Tabasco sauce ; sufficient for G people. 

13 



OYSTERS. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters; to cup full of this 
add the same quantity of milk, 3 eggs, well beaten, a 
little salt, Hour enough for a thin batter; chop the oys- 
ters and stir into batter. Have ready in a frying pan a 
few spoons of very hot lard, drop the oyster batter in by 
spoon. 

Grilled Oysters on Toast. 

Drain the oysters in a colander; drop them into a hot 
pan upon the range with a tablespoon of butter, they 
will ruffle in a few moments; then toss them lightly 
about that they may ruffle and plump on both sides, 
arrange toast, which should be hot and brown, nicely 
buttered on platter. Remove the oysters from the pan ; 
arrange them in small heaps upon each slice, keep per- 
fectly hot, salt and pepper the liquid in the pan ; pour 
that and a little melted butter over the whole and serve. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

One tablespoon chopped celery, 3 tablespoons each 
chopped green peppers, chili sauce and tomato catsup, 
3 dashes of Worcestershire sauce, some horseradish, 
juice of \ lemon, a pinch of salt; mix all together into 
cocktail glasses, put 6 or 7 oysters, ado the above mix- 
ture and serve. 

Celeried Oysters. 

One pint oysters, % cup butter melted, \ cup cracker 
crumbs, 3 stalks celery chopped fine, salt and pepper. 
Wash oysters, drain dry between towels. Dip oysters 
in melted butter, then in crumbs; fry in hot Lutter, ar- 
range on hot toast, pour over white sauce, sprinkle with 
the celery. 

14 



OYSTERS. 

Grilled Oysters. 

One pint oysters, ."> slices buttered toast; fry oysters 
in butter ; put on toast and keep hot ; add 1 teaspoon of 
fat to butter in skillet, pour in the liquid from the oys- 
ters; cook a few minutes and pour over the toast and 
oysters and serve very hot. 

Deviled Oysters. 

Chop 25 oysters fine : add | cup cracker crumbs ; 1 
cup cream ; salt and pepper ; 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
butter ramekin and fill with the mixture. Bake 20 
minutes. 



15 



FISH 



"So let us noo' sit down to sericus eatin' and tackle to 
the inhabitants o' the Great Deep.'' 



Broiled Salmon. 

Take salted salmon, soak 24 hours, changing water 
several times, then par-boil slightly. At the hour wanted, 
broil sharply; season to taste: cover with bits of butter. 
This recipe will answer for all kinds of salt fish. 

Baked Fish. 

Clean well, sprinkle with salt an hour before cooking; 
fill with dressing, tie, sprinkle with flour; lay pieces of 
salt pork on top ; baste often ; allow 1\ hour for a good- 
sizsd fish. 

Pickled Fish. 

Take fresh fish and par-boil in salt water (do not cook 
until tender), then drain, cover with vinegar, add spices 
and slices of lemon, put back on the stove, bring to a 
boil, pour into a crock and let stand until cold, when it 
; s ready for use. 

White Fish Stuffed with Macaroni. 

For a fish weighing from 4 to (i 'pounds, take a half- 
pound of macaroni, boil thoroughly done, -\ cup grated 
cheese, 1 egg beaten light, J cup cracker crumbs, stir 
lightly not to break the macaroni ; put mixture in fish, 
season with salt and pepper to taste; roll pie crur-t 
enough to cover fish ; bake in slow oven 40 minutes. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

16 



FISH. 

Salmon Loaf. 

One cup salmon, f cup cracker crumbs, \ cup sweet 
milk, 1 egg", salt and pepper to taste. Steam -i hour. 

Salmon Puffs. 

One pound salmon, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons melted but- 
ter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 
1 small cup bread crumbs, stir all. put in butttered cups, 
steam 20 minutes. Sauce: — 1 tablespoon flour, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 1 cup milk, salt and pepper, cook, pour 
over puffs, garnish with lettuce leaves. 

Codfish with Eggs. 

Put 1 cup of picked codfish into 1 quart of cold water, 
heat slowly, when hot (not boiling) pour off water, re- 
move fish to another dish, put into skillet 1 pint of nice 
rich milk, thicken with 1 tablespoon of flour, add fish, 
butter size of walnut, when gravy boils, add 1 or 2 eggs, 
stir briskly and serve at once. 

Creamed Codfish. 

One cup codfish, picked free from bones, par-boil, 
drain, pour over li pint milk. 1 cup sweet cream, thicken 
with large tablespoon flour dissolved as for gravy, add 
a piece of butter, salt to taste. 

Fish Chowder. 

Try out about 6 slices of salt pork, place all in a large 
kettle with a dozen sliced potatoes and 2 good-sized 
onions; cover with boiling water, just before it is done 
add hot milk as for potato soup, about 1 quart, and 2 
pounds fresh fish (halibut preferred), cut in large pieces 
or wrapped in a thin cloth whole and cook in the soup; 
boil about 25 minutes more, add butter and salt to taste. 

IT 



FISH. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

One can salmon, | cup milk, 4 cup crumbs (bread, 
cracker), 2 eggs, pepper and salt; drain the fish, bone 
and mash hue, add the egg, milk, salt and pepper to 
taste, then the crumbs; beat until a soft paste is formed, 
drop bv spoon into hot butter and brown. 

Fish Turbot. 

Stir into 1 pint of boiling milk \ cup of Hour and § 
cup of butter. Boil until thick, then remove from stove 
and add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Place on stove 
for a few minutes, then remove and squeeze the juice 
of 1 lemon in. Take one small can of salmon, mince 
fine, place in dishes alternately salmon and dressing, 
putting dressing on last. ( )ver this sprinkle rolled crack- 
ers and place in oven and bake 15 minutes. Serve with 
slice of lemon on top. 

Baked Salmon. 

One can salmon. Put together 1 tablespoon butter, 
1 tablespoon fiour, 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon mustard, 
1 teacup boiling water. When conic to a boil put in 
the salmon, from which bones, -kin and oil have been 
taken. After it is taken from the stove beat in one egg 
and the juice of half a lemon. Bake for about 10 minutes 
in either a large dish or cups. Puttered bread crumbs 
should be put on the top. 

Codfish Croquettes. 

One cup codfish, 1 cup raw potato. Boil together till 
done. Then take from the .->t< ve and mash. Add 1 egg, 
1 tablespoon sweet cream, beat well and drop into hot 

fat by tablespoon. Remove from fat as soon as a nice 
brown. This is a small rule. 



MEAT 



"Heaven sends u:, good meat but the devil sends us cooks. 



Time Table for Cooking. 

Turkey, Fowl, Etc. Beef and Mutton. 

4 pounds 1 hour 5 pounds 1 hour 

5 pounds lj hour 6 pounds 1} hour 

6 pounds 1| hour 1 pounds H hour 

7 pounds If hour 8 pounds If hour 

8 pounds ■> hours 9 pounds 2 hours 

9 pounds 2% hours LO pounds 2\ hours 

10 pounds "M hours 11 pounds 'H hours 

11 pounds 2| hours 12 pounds 2J hours 

12 pounds 3 hours 

Never use any water for beef, pork or veal, but for 
dry roasts, such as leg of mutton, tough fowl, etc., use 
a teacup of water in the pan with the roast. 

Savory Relishes with Meat. 

Roast beef Grated horseradish 

Roast mutton Currant jelly 

Boiled mutton Caper sauce 

Roast pork Apple sauce 

Roast lamb . . . .• Mint sauce 

Roast turkey Cranberry sauce 

Mackerel Stewed gooseberries 

Salmon or shrimp Cucumbers 

Mint Sauce. 

Mix 3 tablespoons chopped mint leaves with 2 of sugar 
and 6 of vinegar. 

20 



MEAT. 

To Roast Beef. 

Place the clean cut side of the roast upon a smoking- 
hot pan, let it remain until seared and slightly brown, 
reverse it until likewise brown, then put at once in a 
hot oven, about the same temperature as for bread. If 
the oven is not too hot the roast will require no basting. 
After the searing, 15 minutes should be allowed for each 
inch in thickness with out regard for its weight or width. 
If it is desired to cook very thoroughly, additional time 
should be allowed. 

To Roast Mutton. 

A leg of mutton should be prepared by carefully re- 
moving the skin and searing the cut surfaces and roast 
in the same manner as beef, excepting that 25 minutes 
should be allowed for each inch in thickness. 



Beefsteak with Oyster Blanket. 

Wipe a sirloin steak, cut 1| inches thick, broil for 5 
minutes, and remove to platter, spread with butter and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Clean a pint of oysters 
and cover the steak with them, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and dot with butter ; place on grate in hot oven 
and cook until oysters are plump. 

Steak. 

Beat well a good cut of round steak, cut in suitable 
pieces for serving, season each piece with salt and pep- 
per! Make a paste of flour and water salted. Cover each 
piece therewith and roll in dry flour to cover it com- 
pletely. Fry in deep fat. Serve with rich gravy and 
mashed potato. 

21 



MEAT. 

Roast Beef Heart. 

Soak heart in cold water, wipe dry, stuff with dressing 
as for a turkey roast. Roast H hour. Serve with the 
gravy, in which put a glass of wine. Is good sliced cold. 

To Roast Beef, Pork or Fowl. 

Prepare for oven, cover it with a batter made of flour 
and water. Put in pan with a cup of water and cover 
tightly. This will make all roasts very tender. 

Cold Meat Pie. 

Cut up cold meat into f-inch squares, place in a deep 
baking dish, season with salt and pepper, cover with 
soup stock or cold gravy. Boil and mash 6 potatoes, place 
smoothly on top of the meat. Brush over with melted 
butter and bake 30 minutes or until it is a delicate brown. 

Beef Omelet. 

Grind 3 lbs. round steak, i lb. salt pork, roll fi crackers 
fine, add 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 
teaspoon pepper and sage to suit. Mix well and mold 
like loaf of bread. Put a little water and bits of butter 
in pan and bake lij hour, basting it occasionally. Keep 
it covered. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Two eggs, 6 tablespoons flour, 1 pint milk, 1 teaspoon 
salt. Mix flour and salt ; add milk slowly, then well 
beaten eggs. Bake in gem pans. This will make 16. 
Serve with roast. 

Ham Croquettes. 

One sup of cold boiled or baked ham, cut fine, one cup 
bread crumbs, two cups cold boiled potatoes, cut fine, 
one tablespoon of butter, one egg- Make into balls, 
roll in bread crumbs, fry in hot fat. 

22 



MEAT. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Four eggs, beaten very light, two cups sweet milk, 
two cups flour, sifted, with one teaspoon baking powder, 
one teaspoon salt. Beat whites and yolks in separate 
bowls. Add milk to the yolks, then add the whites, 
then the other ingredients. .Mix quickly. J Jake at once. 
The roast should be within half hour of done. Warm a 
clean dripping pan, pour in some of the gravy, then pour 
in the batter. Place toaster over the batter and the 
roast on it. Bake one-half hour. Cut pudding in strips 
and serve with roast and gravy. 

Pan Broiled Beefsteak. 

Get a good, thick-cut of round steak. Put in a smok- 
ing hot skillet, sear w r ell on both sides, cover with water 
and cover very tightly and let it simmer for 2 hours, or un- 
til very tender, in a cool oven or on top of the stove. Sea- 
son with pepper, salt and butter when ready to take 
up. Place on a hot platter and serve with rich brown 
gravy. 

Sausage. 

For 20 lbs. pork, five lbs. beef, use 5^ ozs. salt, If oz. 
pepper, H oz. sage, 2} ozs. sugar. 



Meat Patties. 

Chop bits of cold meat, add a cup and a half of bread 
crumbs to one cup of meat, moisten with soup stock, 
or a little sweet milk, add a well beaten egg, salt and 
pepper to taste. Make into flat balls and cook brown 
in a buttered pan. 

23 



MEAT. 

Beef Loaf. 

Grind 2 lbs. round steak, | lb. salt pork. Add 1 cup 
bread crumbs and 2 eggs. Season with salt and pepper 
and sage, if desired. Mix well and form into loaf, sprin- 
kling with a few of the bread crumbs, saved out. Bake 

1 hour. Cover with rich gravy before serving. 

Veal Patties. 

Two cups chopped cold veal. 1 cup mashed potatoes, 

2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of butter, salt and pepper to taste. 
Mix well together, make into small cakes and fry in well 
buttered pan. 

To Corn Beef. 

Into 1 gallon of water put IT lb. salt, f lb. brown sugar, 
^ oz. saltpeter. Boil together — skim. When cold pour 
over 35 lbs. of beef. 

Baked Hash. 

Take left over meat and about one-half the quantity 
of cold boiled potatoes, put through the grinder, add a 
small onion, pepper and salt to taste, moisten with 
water and bake from 20 minutes to \ hour in moderate 
oven till brown. 

Scrappel. 

Scrappel is a most palatable dish. Take the head, 
heart and any lean scraps of pork and boil until the 
flesh slips easily from the bones. Remove the fat, gristle 
and bones and chop fine. Set the liquor in which the 
meat was boiled aside to cool, and take the fat from the 
top. Then return it to the fire and, when boiling, put in 
the meat, chopped fine, and season with salt and pepper. 
Thicken with cornmeal as you would ordinary mush. 
Boil 1 hour. When cold slice and fry. This is delicious 
for breakfast. 

24 



MEAT. 

Beef Loaf. 

Three lbs. beef, chopped fine, 3 eggs well beaten, G 
crackers rolled fine. 1 tablespoon salt, one teaspoon pep- 
per, one tablespoon melted butter, sage to taste. Mix 
well and make like loaf of bread. Put a little water 
and bits of butter into the pan, invert a pan over it, 
baste occasionally, bake an hour and a quarter, and when 
cool slice very thin. 

To Roast a Wild Duck. 

Pick, singe and draw without scalding, or using any 
water about it. The head, legs and wings down to first 
joint may be removed by a blow from a sharp axe. Wipe 
out inside with a damp cloth and sprinkle a little salt 
inside. Lay 1 or 2 slices of salt pork or bacon over 
breast of each duck, or spread with butter and bacon 
fryings. Put into a hot oven, bake 20 or 30 minutes, 
according to size of duck. Too much cooking spoils 
the flavor. Serve at once on hot platter. 

Meat Roll. 

To 1 enp cold meat, ground or chopped fine, add 2 cups 
soaked bread crumbs, 1 beaten egg. Mix with gravy, 
salt and pepper. Bake f of an hour, or until top is 
brown. 

Beef Rissoles. 

1 sirloin steak, chopped fine, 1 quart grated bread 
crumbs, a little pepper, no salt. Mix well. Whip 2 eggs 
into meat and crumbs, and add 1 coffee cup of cold water. 
Roll into balls and put in shallow pan.' Then pour over 
them 1 quart water, salted to taste, and boil slowly about 
45 minutes. 

Gravy. — ^ cup butter. 1 tablespoon flour, salt and pep- 
per. Mix well over fire and pour in salt water from the 
balls. 

25 



MEAT. 

Veal Loaf. 

Chop 3 lbs. beef, add i cup milk. 3 eggs, 6 grated 
crackers, 2 finely chopped onions, butter the size of 2 
eggs, 3 teaspoons salt. 2 teaspoons pepper. Bake 2 hours. 

Veal Loaf. 

Take H Ids. beef, H lbs. veal, £ pound fat pork, 15 
common sized crackers, rolled fine, 3 eggs, well beaten, 
salt and pepper to taste, i teaspoon of ground cloves, 
nutmeg and cinnamon. Mix well, form into a loaf and 
bake. Before baking rub loaf well with cracker crumbs. 
Plenty of water in pan. 

Pressed Chicken. 

Cover a fowl (cut in joints) with boiling water and 
let simmer until tender, together with a few slices of 
carrot, half an onion, and a stalk of celery ; remove the 
skin and bones, and return them with the broth to the 
fire and let simmer until reduced to 1 cup, strain and set 
aside ; when the flesh is nearly cold cut into tiny cubes 
or chop fine, remove fat from broth, reheat and stir 
chicken into it, adding salt and pepper and other season- 
ing if desired. Decorate the mould with hard-boiled eggs, 
in this pack the chicken, cover with buttered paper 
bearing weight and let stand until cold and serve sliced 
thin with salad. 

Chicken Turnovers. 

Chop cold chicken fine. Put in saucepan, place over 
fire. Moisten with a piece of butter and season with 
salt and pepper. Add a small tablespoon sifted flour in 
a little cold water. Heat all and cool. Roll pie crust 
quite thin, cut as large as a saucer, put on a large spoon 
of the chicken and fold over. Fry in hot drippings to 
a nice brown or bake in a moderate oven. 

26 



MEAT. 

Chicken Oyster Pie. 

Cut the chicken and stew. Line a deep dish with rich 
crust, put In a layer of chicken, with gravy, and a layer 
of raw oysters. Sprinkle latter with salt, pepper and 
butter. Proceed thus until dish is full. Then cover 
with crust, bake one-half or three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve with gravy made from chicken and oyster juice, 
thickened with flour and seasoned with pepper and salt. 

Pickled Eggs. 

I lave eggs boiled hard ; remove shells ; pickle them in 
beet juice until the whites become colored. Cut length- 
wise and serve as relish. 

Chicken Croquette. 

Chop fine cold cooked chicken, and to every pint allow 
^ pint of milk, 1 large tablespoon of butter, 2 large table- 
spoons of flour, 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley, salt 
and cayenne pepper to taste. Put the milk on to heat in 
double boiler. Rub butter and flour to smooth paste, 
then stir into the boiling milk and stir constantly until 
very thick. Take from the fire, add meat and seasoning. 
Mix thoroughly and cool. When cold form into cone- 
shaped croquettes. Dip these first in egg, then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut in pieces and boil till tender, two old chickens, 
line the sides of a six-quart pan with a rich baking pow- 
der dough, take all the bones from the chicken, put in 
pan, season with plenty of salt, pepper and butter, cover 
the top with a crust ^ inch thick, with 3 large holes in 
it, fill through the holes with boiling water until the top 
heaves. Bake three-quarters of an hour. Make gravy 
of the liquor in which the chicken was boiled. Be sure 
there is plenty. 

27 



MEAT. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Cut chicken up as for fricassee, wash, and let stand in 
cold water awhile. Drain, season, roll each piece thor- 
oughly in flour, and pack close in a baking crock; pour 
hot water on to almost cover, dot with bits of butter, 
cover closely 4 and bake until tender. When done re- 
move chicken and make gravy. 

Calf's Head Cheese. 

Clean carefully and boil the head until the bones drop 
out. Season meat with 2, teaspoons salt and pepper. 
Put a cloth in a colander # fold the meat in it ; press 
with a weight until the next day. Slice thin when serv- 
ing. 

Egg Cutlets. 

Boil 5 eggs hard and cut fine. Add 1 tablespoon pars- 
ley and 1 teaspoon onion, each chopped fine. Take 1 cup 
sweet milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour. 
Melt butter and add flour, stirring until smooth, adding 
milk gradually. Cook until thick. Remove from the 
fire and add other ingredients. Season with salt and 
pepper. Let stand an hour. Make croquettes and roll 
in egg and cracker crumbs. Frv in lard. 



-&s 



Baked Eggs, 

Break into a buttered dish 7 eggs being careful not 
to break yolks of any ; put on each egg a small piece of 
butter and sprinkle with pepper and salt ; bake in oven 
until whites become firm and serve hot with buttered 
toast. 

Excellent Omelet. 

Heat 1 cup of milk; stir into it 1 tablespoon flour; let 
thicken, stirring well ; place in pan of cold water, when 
cool, add salt and the beaten yolks of 6 eggs and then 
the whites, beaten with a few strokes. Cook in but- 
tered pan. 

28 



MEAT. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Break eggs into a warm buttered spider; avoid break- 
ing the yolk; _ J .dd a little salt, butter or cream; as soon 
as they begin to whiten stir well from the bottom and 
cook until they are as desired. 

Fried Cheese Balls. 

Mix thoroughly H cup grated cheese, a little salt and 
cayenne pepper and the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Form into balls the size of a hickory nut. Fry a few at 
a time in deep fat as you would doughtnuts and drain on 
blotting paper. Serve on the side of a dish of salad. 

Cheese Puffs. 

Beat together 1 pint mashed potatoes ; 1 egg, beaten 
light ; 2 tablespoons butter ; 2 tablespoons grated cheese. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Form into cakes about 3 inches 
square and i inch thick. Bake in hot oven. They should 
puff up. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Mix to a smooth batter 3 tablespoons flour and -\ pint 
milk. Beat -i eggs, salt and \ lb. grated cheese. Mix all 
together, stirring thoroughly. Cook in hot, well but- 
tered pan. Serve on a hot dish. 

Cheese Fondue. 

One cup scalded milk, 1 cup soft stale bread crumbs, 
\ pound grated cheese, h tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 3 yolks of eggs, beaten, 3 whites of eggs, beaten 
stiff. Mix first 5 ingredients, then add yolks and fold in 
whites. Bake 20 minutes in buttered pan, 

29 



MEAT. 



Cheese Croquettes. 

Two cups grated cheese, whites 2 eggs, beaten very 
stiff. Mix together, season with salt and red pepper and 
mold, dip in beater eggs and roll in cracker crumbs, fry- 
in hot fat a iiarht b/own. 



30 



VEGETABLES 



There's a knack in doing many a thing. 
Which labor cannot to perfection bring; 
Therefore, however great in your own eyes, 
Pray do not hints from other folks despise. 



When fresh vegetables are to be cooked, they must be 
put into boiling water. Never acid salt until cooking is 
nearly finished. Let wilted vegetables stand in cold water 
for several hours before cooking. An insufficient quantity 
of water used in cooking vegetables makes them dark, and 
gives an unsatisfactory flavor. A small piece of red pep- 
per dropped into vegetables when first beginning to cook 
will add greatly in killing the unpleasant odor. Remem- 
ber this for boiled cabbage. 

Potatoes a la Bryan. 

Cut potatoes in dice, 1 bunch of chopped parsley, 1 
small can of sweet red peppers. Cover with the follow- 
ing sauce : 

Two tablespoons of flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup of 
sweet milk, -]- teaspoon salt, pepper, cream, flour and 
butter, cook with milk. Put bits of butter on top and 
bake | hour. 

Corn Chowder. 

Fry in butter or pork fat, in a deep kettle, 2 sliced 
onions ; when tender, add 8 potatoes sliced thin ; season 
well with salt and pepper, cover with hot water, cook a 
few minutes and add corn scraped from eight ears (or 
canned corn) ; add more water and boil -|~ hour. Then 
add 1 quart boiling milk, 2 tablespoons butter rubbed 
smooth with flour. Good dish for luncheon. 

31 



VEGETABLES. 

Corn Fritters. 

To 1 pint of corn add 3 eggs, beat whites and yolks 
separate ; 1 tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon sugar. 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 small cup flour; salt to taste. 
Drop in hot grease. 

Corn Fritters. 

Take 1 pint corn pulp. 2 eggs, \ teaspoon salt, ] tea- 
spoon pepper, 2 tablespoons flour or just enough to hold 
the corn and eggs together. Fry in deep fat. 

Succotash. 

Cook separately 1 quart lima beans and the grains from 
10 ears of sweet corn. When tender season with salt and 
pepper, 2 tablespoons butter and let simmer 10 minutes; 
add | cup sweet cream. When hot serve, 

Escalloped Corn. 

One pint can corn, a little salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon 
sugar. '] cup of cracker crumbs. 3 tablespoons melted but- 
ter, 2 eggs, well beaten, 1 J cups of milk. Mix all together 
and bake J hour. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

One-half dozen ears corn. 2 eggs, beaten, 1 pint milk, 
1 large tablespoon butter. 1 teaspoon sugar, salt and pep- 
per. Bake until brown and firm. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

Pare, soak and cut potato slices, -j— inch thick. Put a 
layer in buttered dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour and dot with J tablespoon butter ; re- 
peat. Add hot milk until it may be seen through top lay- 
er; bake H hours or until potatoes are sofl 

32 



VEGETABLES. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Bake 6 good-sized potatoes. When done cut off the 
tops, and with a spoon scoop out the potato into a hot 
bowl. Mash fine and add 1 tablespoon of butter, £ cup of 
hot milk, a teaspoon salt, pepper to taste. Beat until very 
light, then add the well beaten whites of 2 eggs; stir 
gently. Fill the skins with this mixture, heaping it on 
top ; brush over with the yolk of the egg, put in the oven 
and brown. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Butter well a baking dish and put a layer of either 
bread crumbs or rolled crackers, then put in a layer of 
cold boiled potatoes, sliced thin, and over these put plenty 
of butter, pepper and salt ; then another layer of crackers, 
and so on until the dish is full. Then wet up thoroughly 
with milk and bake -| hour. 

Southern Sweet Potatoes. 

Pare 6 medium-sized sweet potatoes, and place them in 
a flat pan. Pour over the potatoes the following syrup : 
| cup boiling water, ^ cup granulated sugar. 1 large table- 
spoon of butter, pepper, salt, and a sprinkling of cinna- 
mon. Cook slowly on back of range, turn frequently, and 
as the syrup thickens, remove the cover that they may 
brown a trifle. 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take rather large, regularly shaped fruit, cut a small 
slice from the blossomed end. and scoop out all the soft 
part. Mix this with stale bread crumbs, butter, pepper, 
and salt, parsley and a little chopped onion. Fill the 
tomatoes carefully; set them in a dish with a little butter 
in it. Let them bake | of an hour in a moderate oven, 
watching that they do not burn or become dry 

33 



VEGETABLES. 

Peas Served in Potato Cases. 

Mash 6 boiled potatoes, acid salt and pepper to taste, 2 
tablespoons butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 teaspoons grated 
mild cheese, 2 tablespoons cream. Mold in oblong wells, 
brush with egg, bake a delicate brown.. Fill with hot 
seasoned French peas. Serve at once. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

Soak 1 quart navy beans over night, cook until soft 
(but whole). Put in bean pot with 1 pound salt pork, 
% cup (X. O.) molasses. 1 teaspoon mustard. 2 level 
teaspoons salt. Cover with hot water. Bake in slow 
oven several hours. Add water once or twice to keep 
moist. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Boil 4 or 5 parsnips ; when tender, take off the skin, and 
mash fine ; add a teaspoon of flour, \ teaspoon of salt, a 
little pepper, and 1 beaten egg; make into small, flat 
cakes, and fry brown on both sides in hot butter. 

Creamed Tomatoes. 

One can tomatoes ; put on stove to heat ; put in pepper, 
salt and sugar to suit the taste ; beat 1 tablespoon flour 
and a little butter and cream ; let tomatoes come to boiling 
point, put in cream and butter and stir. Let it cook for 
2 minutes. Serve with any kind of meat. 

Baked Macaroni. 

Eoil the desired amount until tender. Pour off hot 
water, cover with cold water, let stand ten minutes, drain 
and mix very moist with a thickened cream dressing made 
of butter, flour and milk. Mix all through this, grated 
cheese ; on top spread a layer of buttered cracker crumbs 
and, last, a layer of grated cheese. Bake I hour. 

34 



VEGETABLES. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Two cups mashed potatoes, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
| cup hot milk, well beaten together. Add whites of 2 
eggs, well beaten. Salt, mold, roll in yolk of egg and 
cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

White Sauce. 

Boil till tender a good-sized carrot, cut in dice, 1 onion, 
chopped fine, 1 pint milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 scant 
tablespoon flour or corn starch, 1 tablespoon parsley, 
chopped fine, add vegetables and serve in sauce boats or 
around croquettes. 

Cold Slaw. 

Chop I head of cabbage fine, add 2 large cucumbers, 
and chop all together. Season with salt, pepper, vinegar 
and sugar. Salad dressing may be used instead of the 
vinegar dressing. 

Cabbage Relish. 

Mix 2 cups shredded cabbage, 2 green peppers, finely 
chopped, 1 teaspoon celery seed, \ teaspoon salt. 2 table- 
spoons brown sugar, \ cup vinegar. Serve without cook- 
ing. Very nice with fried oysters. 

Parsnip Balls. 

Take 2 very large or -i medium-sized parsnips, boil and 
mash, add 1 well beaten egg and a lump of butter; let 
cool. When wanted, make into balls and dip in egg and 
roll in bread crumbs. Fry. 

Hot Cabbage Slaw. 

Shave fine 1 small head of cabbage, put into skillet with 
piece of butter size of a walnut, pepper and salt, \ cup of 
water, cook until tender. Beat well 1 egg, add 2 table- 
spoons of cream and three of vinegar, stir all together. 
Pour over cabbage. Serve at once. 

35 



VEGETABLES. 

Creamed Cabbage. 

Shred 1 small head of cabbage very fine. Cook in 
salted water until tender, then pour off half the water and 
add the following dressing: 2 eggs, well beaten, with \ 
cup of sugar, | cup of vinegar, 1 tablespoon of butter 
Beat .vigorously and mix through the cabbage. Let it 
boil two minutes, serve. 

Escalloped Cabbage. 

Cut | boiled cabbage in pieces, put in buttered dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, add 1 cup white sauce. 
Mix well with a fork. Cover with J cup buttered bread 
crumbs and brown. 

White Sauce:' — 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1 cup milk, J- teaspoon salt, -i grains pepper. 



Hot Slaw. 

One quart of nice white cabbage, chopped fine. Pep- 
per and salt it and place in a dish. Then make the fol- 
lowing dressing: Place 3 tablespoonsful butter in a skil- 
let, add 1 egg well beaten and 1 cupful of vinegar. 
When this boils up pour over the cabbage. 



36 



SALADS 



"A mystery, aye, Sir. a mystery." 



Mayonnaise. 

Beat up the yolks of 2 raw eggs to a smooth consis- 
tency and add 2 saltspoons of salt and 1 of white pepper, 
and a tahlespoon of oil. Beat up thoroughly and by de- 
grees add ^ pint of oil. When it begins to thicken add a 
few drops of vinegar. The total amount of vinegar to be 
used is 2 tablespoons, and the proper time to stop adding 
oil and to add drops of vinegar is when the dressing has 
a glossy look, instead of a velvet appearance. 4 parts 
of oil to 1 of vinegar are about the right proportions, 
provided the vinegar is of the best. 

Cooked Mustard. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, well beaten — \ cup vinegar, 2 table- 
spoons mustard, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, boil 
until thick. 

Salad Dressing. 

Two tablespoons butter, 2 of sugar, 1 teaspoon mustard, 
1 of salt, 3 eggs. Mix thoroughly, then add 1 cup vine- 
gar. Cook until it thickens. 

Boil 8 large potatoes with jackets on, peel and cut up 
in pieces and pour dressing over them. 

Dressing. 

Yolks of 8 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 pint of vinegar, 1 cup 
of butter, 1 cup of sour cream, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon of mustard, a little red pepper; boil vinegar and 
butter together; mix the other ingredients and stir into 
the vinegar ; boil again ; put the yolks of 4 hard-boiled 
eggs through a rice-potato sieve and sprinkle on salad. 

37 



SALADS. 

Veal Salad. 

Two pounds veal, 1 bunch celery, 4 hard-boiled eggs, 1 
cup nuts. Dressing : Yolks of 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 teaspoon mustard, salt and pepper, | pint vinegar, 
and last stir in salad the beaten whites of 4 eggs and 1 cup 
of cream. 

Durkee Dressing. 

Two tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons mustard, 1 table- 
spoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 cup of sweet milk, 3 
eggs. Mix thoroughly, then add 1 cup of vinegar, and 
cook in a double boiler until it thickens. Will keep sev- 
eral weeks in a cool place. 

Salad Dressing. 

Beat 2 eggs with 2 tablespoons of sugar, add a piece of 
butter the size of h egg, a teaspoon of mustard, a little 
pepper, and last a teacup of vinegar. Tut these ingredi- 
ents into a dish over the fire and cook like a soft custard. 
Some think it improves by adding i cup sweet cream to 
the dressing. In that case use less vinegar. 

Salad Dressing for 40 People. 

One cup sugar, 6 level teaspoons salt, 4 level teaspoons 
dry mustard, 1 level teaspoon white pepper. Mix dry un- 
til smooth, add 8 whole eggs, 4 cups sour cream (thick), 
2 cups vinegar, cook over hot water until creamy. This 
will keep a year. 

Salad Dressing. 

Yolks of 6 eggs, well beaten, 7 tablespoons vinegar, 3 
dessertspoons sugar, 1 teaspoon mustard. Salt, 4 pint 
cream, (whipped). Put in double boiler and cook until 
it thickens, remove, let cool, add piece of butter size of 
an egg, paprika and beat smooth. 

Hint: Boiled salad dressing will not curdle, but will 
be smooth and light if stirred frequently while cooking 
in a double boiler, with a revolving egg beater. 

38 



SALADS. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Chop enough tender cabbage to make a quart. The 
finer it is chopped the nicer it is. Mix with it the follow- 
ing dressing: Melt J tablespoon butter in a small sauce- 
pan and stir into it 1 tablespoon flour. Add ] teaspoon 
each of salt, sugar and mustard, J teaspoon white pepper 
and 4 tablespoons vinegar. Stir and cook until it thick- 
ens. Draw from the fire, drop in 1 egg and beat briskly. 
When cold add 4 tablespoons thick sour cream. Beat up 
and mix with cabbage. 

To Prepare Lettuce. 

Wash the lettuce leaves, dry in a towel, place in a deep 
dish. Make a dressing of lemon juice and salad oil, aboul 
i each in quantity, salt and pepper. Turn it over the let- 
tuce leaves, stirring it the while ; then toss the leaves 
over and over with the hand, till all seem well covered, 
and send to table. 

Grape Fruit Salad. 

Separate the sections of grape fruit, removing skin and 
seeds. Blanch an equal amount of white grapes by plung- 
ing in hot water and then removing skins. Cut in halve ; 
and take out seeds. Mix with the grape fruit and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing on hearts of lettuce. 

Celery and Apple Salad. 

Cut fine equal portions celery and apples. Pour over 
them a boiled salad dressing. 

Nut Salad. 

Equal parts of chopped nuts and celery, white of hard 
boiled eggs, sliced and mixed in. Cover with salad dress- 
ing. Use grated yolk on top. 

39 



SALADS. 

Shrimp Salad. 

Take fresh or canned shrimp, break in small pieces; 
add to this an equal amount of celery ; serve on lettuce 
leaves with salad dressing". 

Fruit Salad. 

Take J bananas, ^ apples, $ celery. Cut all in small 
cubes. Moisten the whole with lemon juice, and sweeten 
with powdered sugar. Garnish with lettuce leaves. Just 
before serving put a little mayonnaise dressing over the 
top. 

Pineapple Salad. 

Remove seed from white grapes, add equal quantities 
of shredded fresh pineapple, celery and apples, cut in 
small pieces. Moisten with mayonnaise dressing. 

Italian Salad. 

Plain French dressing of: Salt, white pepper, f olive 
oil, 7 \ vinegar, pinch of sugar, and 1 cup of beef broth 
added last, \ pound of Sardellen fish (sold in cans same 
as sardines) ; 1 small bottle of each, capers, stuffed olives, 
pickled mushrooms, and gherkins. | pound each of cer- 
velat sausage, roast veal (or chicken), cooked ham. 

Wash carefully sardellen in several waters, rub gently 
with soft cloth to remove scales and white skin, take out 
bones and cut off tails. Cut all of the ingredients into 
thin strips ; mix well with dressing and garnish with 
white and yolk of hard boiled eggs. 

Potato Salad — German Style. 

Cut a slice of ham into small pieces and fry, take out 
the ham and put into the pan 1 tablespoon of flour, let it 
cook up and add \ cup of vinegar and \ cup of water 
mixed together. Into this slice the potatoes which have 
previously been boiled, and grate an onion into it. Sea- 
son with a teaspoon of salt and a pinch of pepper. 

40 



SALADS. 

Beet Salad. 

Chop beets and celery fine and set away, yolks of 2 eggs 
well beaten, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, 2 tea- 
spoons made mustard, 1 tablespoon butter; stir into this 
mixture 1 tablespoons best vinegar. Cook in double 
boiler, stir until it thickens ; if necessary thin with cream 
before adding to the beets and celery. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Half head of small cabbage chopped fine ; beat and mix 
in the yolk of 1 egg; heat f cup of vinegar, tablespoon of 
butter, teaspoon of sugar, a little salt ; stir .all together and 
simmer a few minutes. 

Fruit Salad. 

One dozen oranges l£ bananas, 1 can pineapple, 4 
lemons. Dissolve 10 cents' worth of crystal flake in a 
little cold water, pour over this boiling water 3 quarts, 
add lemon juice, 1 tablespoon vanilla and juice of pine- 
apple. Pour over sliced fruit. Set on ice. 
Ham Salad. 

Mince cold boiled ham (not very fine) ; add hard boiled 
egg, chopped, and chopped lettuce leaves. Place slices 
hard boiled egg on top and add salad dressing. 

Corn Salad. 

Take 18 large ears corn. 1 large onions, 1 medium cab- 
bage ; 3 large red peppers, 1+ pounds brown sugar, 3^ 
pints vinegar, i cup salt, 3 heaping tablespoons dry mus- 
tard. Cut corn from cob, chop onions and cabbage and 
peppers after taking out all seeds. Mix well. Boil 15 
minutes. Seal in cans while hot. 



41 



SANDWICHES 



Rye Bread Sandwiches. 

Rye or Vienna bread cut very thin makes nice sand- 
wiches when spread with peanut butter and then cut 
in triangles. 

Boston Brown Bread Sandwiches. 

Spread small rounds of rich brown bread with a may- 
onnaise dressing in which chopped nuts have been mixed 
thickly; walnuts and pecans are best. A variety to these 
would be made by adding a crisp leaf of lettuce or a 
very little minced celery. 

Two Good Sandwich Fillings. 

A. Steam half a dozen pulled figs for two minutes ; 
put through the meat chopper or mash with a spoon 
until a soft paste is formed. Add as many chopped nuts 
as the paste will take up and spread on slices of bread. 

B. One pound of butter, the juice of one-half a lemon 
and a little of the grated rind. Work all together until 
it is soft and creamy. This is good either on bread or 
wafers. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 
One loaf of bread, one brick of Philadelphia or Wauke- 
sha cream cheese, 1 small can pimentos. Tut 2 or 3 
peppers through a meat grinder until cptite fine and salt 
to taste ; mash the cheese with sweet cream until soft, 
then stir the pepper mixture thoroughly through it and 
spread evenly on slices of the bread cut very thin in 
rounds. 

Sweet Sandwiches. 

One loaf cut in thin slices and spread with orange 
marmalade and chopped nuts. 

42 



SANDWICHES. 

Lettuce Sandwiches. 

Cut a loaf of bread into thin slices, lay a crisp leaf 
of lettuce on each, which has been spread with a bo.led 
salad dressing in which pimolas or olives have been 
chopped. 

Lettuce sandwiches may also be made by cutting 
pimolas in thin slices, mixing then with a mayonnaise 
dressing. Spread the lettuce with this and sprinkle chop- 
ped walnuts on thickly. 

Butter Thin Sandwiches. 

Put three or four pulled figs through the meat chopper 
and mash until a soft paste is formed when mixed with 
whipped cream. Spread between Bremner's butter thin 
crackers. 

Butter Thin Sandwiches No. 2. 

Soften a brick of Philadelphia or Waukesha cream 
cheese with sweet cream. Remove the peppers from a 
small bottle full of pimolas and cut the olives up in fine 
slices. Mix with cheese and spread on Bremner's butter 
thin crackers. Put one of the little red peppers on each 
cracker and serve with cofTee. 

Fig and Nut Sandwiches. 

The pulp "of a dozen figs ; half the quantity of finely 
chopped pecan meats; work to a paste; butter thin slices 
of bread and spread with paste. 



43 



PUDDINGS 



"Now we sit to chat, as well as to cat' 



Plum Pudding. 

Heaping cup bread crumbs, dissolve in 1 cup sweet 
milk, 1 cup suet chopped fine, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups 
flour, 1 tablespoon soda, 1 teaspoon each of salt, cinna- 
mon and cloves, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, i cup dates, 
■J cup figs, \ cup coarsely chopped nuts. Steam 3 or 4 
hours. 

Plum Pudding. 

Two cups chopped suet, 2 cups old cake crumbs, \\ 
cup sweet milk, 1 cup maple syrup, \ cup molasses, 1 
teaspoon soda, dissolved in milk. 1 cup raisins, 1 cup 
chopped French prunes, 1 cup chopped figs, 1 cup blanch- 
ed chopped almonds, J cup brandy, 4 cups flour. Steam 
4 hours. 

Steamed Pudding. 

One cup bread crumbs, 1 cup hot water, 1 cup of mo- 
lasses, 1 cup of flour, \ cup of seeded, chopped raisins, \ 
cup of chopped walnut meats, 1 teaspoon saleratus dis- 
solved in hot water, 1 teaspoon each cloves and cinnamon, 
\ teaspoon salt. Steam 2 hours. 

Sauce. — \ cup butter, \ cup sugar, creamed; add whites 
of 2 eggs well beaten ; add flavoring. 

Graham Pudding. 

One-half cup molasses, \ cup sour milk, 1 egg, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, salt. Thicken with graham flour and steam 
2 hours. 

Sauce : — Cream together 1 cup sugar, i cup butter. Add 
well beaten whites of 2 eggs and whip until light. 

This can be greatly improved by mixing in finely cut 
bananas or crushed strawberries. 

44 



PUDDINGS. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 
Pour 1 quart of boiling water over f cup of Pearl Tapi- 
oca and cook in double boiler until transparent ; stir often 
and add | teaspoon salt. Core and pare 5 apples, put in 
a baking dish and fill cores with sugar and lemon juice. 
Pour the tapioca over them and bake till the apples are 
very soft. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Cherry Pudding. 

Two tablespoons butter, melted, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 

cup cherries, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 

powder ; make a batter of the ingredients. I do not melt 

the butter, but cream with sugar, same as for cake. Use 

1 cup of stewed cherries after the juice is drained off; 
put in the bottom of pudding dish, which must first be 
greased ; pour batter over them and bake or steam. It 
is good baked. Serve the following sauce : 1 cup sugar, 
| cup butter, 1 cup cherry juice, cream, butter and sugar, 
add cherry juice heated. 

Cranberry Pudding. 
Pour boiling water on 1 pint of bread crumbs, stir in a 
tablespoon of butter, add 2 beaten eggs and 1 pint stewed 
cranberries ; bake. Serve with hard sauce or cream. 

Steam Fruit Pudding. 
Put into mixing bowl 1 heaping cup of bread crumbs, 

2 scant cups of flour, 1 cup molasses,. 1 cup sweet milk, 
and 1 teaspoon each of salt, cloves and cinnamon, stir 1 
teaspoon of soda in the milk, add the last thing, 1 cup of 
suet, chopped fine, the same amount of raisins and cur- 
rents, and rub thoroughly with flour before adding to the 
mixture. Steam in a well greased pan 2^ hours. This 
will make quite a large pudding. 

Graham Pudding. 
Mix H cups graham flour, -} cup butter, 1 cup raisins, 
1 teaspoon soda, i cup molasses, \ cup sweet milk, 1 egg, 
spice and salt. Steam 2 hours. Eat wjth sauce. 

45 



PUDDINGS. 

Woodford Pudding. 

Take 3 beaten eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 
teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 teaspoons sour milk, 1 cup 
blackberry jam, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, | cup 
flour. Bake | hour. 

Sauce. — 1 cup brown sugar, 1 large tablespoon butter, 
1 dessertspoon cornstarch. Water to make proper con- 
sistency ; flavor. 

Sunderland Pudding. 

Two eggs, well beaten, 1 scant cup flour, 1 cup sweet 
milk, salt, beat well together ; bake in a drip pan ^ hour. 
.Serve with cream, sugar and nutmeg. 

St. James Pudding. 

Take 3 tablespoons butter, ^ cup molasses, ^ cup milk, 
^ teaspoon soda, I teaspoon each of salt, cloves, allspice, 
nutmeg, ^ pound of dates stoned and cut in pieces (raisins 
may be used). Melt butter, add molasses, milk, dry in- 
gredients and stiffen. Steam 2\ hours. Serve with wine 
sauce. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 

One cup of finely chopped beef suet, 2 cups fine bread 
crumbs, 1 heaping cup sugar, 1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup 
currants, 1 cup blanched almonds, chopped, | cup citron, - 
sliced thin, 1 teaspoon each cloves and salt, 2 of cinna- 
mon, 5 a grated nutmeg, 4 well beaten eggs; dissolve a 
level teaspoon soda in a tablespoon of warm water, flour 
the fruit thoroughly from a pint' of flour, then mix the 
remainder as follows: In a large bowl put the well beat- 
en eggs, sugar, spices, salt, and 1 cup of sweet milk ; stir 
in the fruit, nuts, bread crumbs and suet, one after an- 
other until all are used putting in the dissolved soda last 
and add the remainder of the flour. Boil or steam 4 
hours. Serve with wine or brandy sauce. 

46 



PUDDINGS. 

Marlborough Pudding. 

Into 2 cups of apple-sauce beat yolks of 3 eggs, | cup 
of cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon of melted butter, juice 
and rind of 1 lemon, 1 small cup of sugar. Bake i hour. 
Put beaten whites of egg on top. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Sift 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder in a mixing bowl. To 1 egg add 1 tablespoon 
sugar and 2 tablespoons soft butter. Beat this to a cream 
and add the flour together with enough milk to make a 
soft dough. Form into 6 biscuits. While they are baking 
cut strawberries into slices and add sugar. Split biscuits, 
butter them, lay strawberries between and on top. Serve 
with whipped or plain cream and sugar. 

Raspberry Dumplings. 

Combine as in mixing cake. ?, cup butter, 1 cup milk, 1 
level teaspoon baking powder, 2 cups flour, the whites of 
3 eggs, half fill well buttered moulds and steam 40 min- 
utes ; turn out and roll in powdered sugar; serve with 
raspberries or any fresh fruit. 

Improved Indian Pudding. 

Two slices bread, f inch thick, spread with butter on 
both sides, using piece as large as an egg. Soften by 
pouring on boiling water ; stir until soft. Add 1 egg, 
small cup molasses, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, a little salt and 
1 quart milk. Cover and bake :> hours in moderate oven. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Take 1 pint flour, 1 tablespoon butter, mix; add 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder and pinch of salt. Wet with milk 
like biscuit dough. Bake in slow oven. 

Sauce. — 2 pints water, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 cups su- 
gar, 1 teaspoon flavoring extract. Let boil down half. 

47 



PUDDINGS. 

Indian Pudding. 
Pour enough boiling water on 2 cups corn meal to wet 
it ; add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup seeded raisins, 2 cups milk, ^ 
cup butter, ^ cup molasses, a pinch of salt, a little nutmeg. 
Bake 3 hours ; serve with cream. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Take 1 cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 tablespoons melted but- 
ter, 1 egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder sifted with 2? cups 
flour. Bake and serve with liquid sauce. 

Peach Cobbler. 

Prepare a short cake crust, using cream to mix, if pos- 
sible. Fill a baking dish about half full with pared and 
stoned peaches, sweeten and cover. Bake for an hour and 
serve with sugar and cream. 

Graham Pudding. 

One cup milk, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 cups graham 
flour, f cup N. O. molasses. 1 teaspoon soda. Boil 3 hours. 

Sauce. — 1 cup sugar, J cup butter, whites of 2 eggs ; 
beat butter and sugar to a cream, add beaten whites of 
eggs, and stir until creamy ; flavor to. taste. Serve hot. 

Ginger Bread Pudding. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon of butter, 
1^ cup of raisins, J teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, 
allspice and saleratus, flour enough to make it stiff. Steam 
3 hours. 

Favorite Pudding. 

Stew prunes or any small fruit, sweeten to taste, and 
while boiling hot put in a few thin slices of good bread. 
When the bread has become fully saturated with the hot 
juice, put the bread in alternate layers, in a deep dish, 
leaving a thick layer of fruit for the top. Place a plate 
over it and when cool set on ice. With whipped cream 
it will be found most delicious. 

48 



PUDDINGS. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg, 3 tablespoons of 
sugar, 2 tablespoons of flour ; mix all thoroughly together. 
Pour enough boiling water over it to make a pint. Lei 
it boil a few minutes, stirring continually. Flavor with 
lemon. 



Prune Whip. 

Two cups prunes, steam until soft, then take out stones, 
saltspoon of salt and soda, whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff 
and beaten in prunes, 2 tablespoons of sugar. Bake 10 
minutes. 

Raisin Puffs. 

Four tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons butter ; rub to a 
cream ; two eggs well beaten, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups of 
flour, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 1 cup of chopped 
raisins ; fill 6 cups § full and steam 1 hour ; serve with any 
good pudding sauce. 

Chocolate Puff Balls. 

One cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 egg, 1 cup milk 
or water. Beat well together and add a large tablespoon 
baking powder, 2 large tablespoons scraped chocolate, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, flour to make a stiff batter. A cup of 
currants may be added if desired. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Tapioca 2 cups, sweet milk 4 cups, 4 eggs, 1 heaping 
tablespoon butter, 1 cup sugar ; a grated lemon peel im- 
proves it. Directions — Soak the tapioca in milk 1 hour, 
then put into a sauce pan and set in hot water; cook till 
soft ; then put into a baking dish with butter, eggs well 
beaten, sugar, lemon peel, etc. ; bake about i hour. 

49 



PUDDINGS. 

Bradbury Pudding. 

One cup Orleans molasses, 1 cup water, 1 cup of rais- 
ins, -}j cup of butter, 3 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of soda; 
steam 3 hours without looking at it. Keep plenty of 
water boiling under it. 

Sauce. — 1 well beaten egg, 1 cup of sugar creamed with 
•J cup of butter ; flavor with lemon and just before serving 
add a tablespoon cold water. 

Caramel Tapioca. 

Soak : ,' cup tapioca in water until soft (-J hour or so), 
add 3 cups brown sugar. 1 cup water and bake an hour. 
Stir often. Eat with cream. 

Suet Plum Pudding. 

One cup suet chopped fine, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup of 
sour milk, 1 cup of seeded raisins, 3| cups of flour, 1 egg, 
1 teaspoon of cloves, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
nutmeg. 1 teaspoon saleratus, a little salt. Boil 3 hours 
in a pudding mold set into a kettle of water. Eat with 
common sweet sauce. 

Floating Island. 

One quart sweet milk; boil; stir in the beaten yolks of 
G eggs, 2 tablespoons of white sugar and flavor with vanil- 
la, lemon, rose or almond ; stir until it thickens ; pour into 
a wide, shallow dish ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, sweetening and flavoring slightly. Spread the 
frothed eggs smoothly over the boiling hot custard. (Do- 
ing in this manner cooks the whites sufficiently without 
the trouble of setting them over boiling water.) Grate 
loaf sugar over the top and sprinkle grated cocoanut over 
that. Spoons of jelly may be scattered over the top. Set 
the dish in a pan of ice water. 

50 



PUDDINGS. 

Brown Pudding. 

Yolk of 1 egg, \ cup molasses, \ cup hot water, 1 tea- 
spoon soda, 1 cup flour, salt. Steam 1 hour. 

Sauce. — 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, beat yolks and whites 
separately and flavor. 

Fruit Dumpling. 

One cup flour sifted with 1 teaspoon baking powder 
and a bit of salt. Enough sour cream (if too rich add 
milk), sweetened with soda to make dumpling about as 
thick as graham gems, steam in well-buttered cups with 
layers of fruit \ hour ; any fruit fresh or canned may be 
used. Pears or peaches are especially nice. 

Blackberry Flip. 

Take 1 cup of sugar. 2 eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 
cups of flour and a teaspoon of baking powder. Place a 
thin layer in a dish, cover with blackberries and a sprin- 
kle of sugar ; add another layer of the dough, and more 
blackberries and cover last with dough. Steam 3 hours, 
and serve with rich cream. Raspberries or cherries may 
be used instead of blackberries if desirable. A little but- 
ter among the berries improves it. 

Fig Pudding. 

Take ^ pound of figs, f cup of sugar ; add enough water 
to keep from burning and cook to a jelly. Mix together 1 
cup of chopped suet, 11 cup flour, 1 teaspoon of baking 
powder, h teaspoon of salt ; add enough sweet milk to 
make a soft dough. Roll the dough out, cover with a 
layer of figs, roll together like a jelly cake, put into a bag, 
and steam 3 hours. 

Sauce for pudding. — I cup of butter, f cup of sugar, 2 
eggs well beaten. Pour on this mixture 1 cup of boiling 
water. Flavor with nutmeg or vanilla and cook 2 min- 
utes. 

51 



PUDDINGS. 

Caramel Sauce. 

One Cupful oi light brown sugar, butter the size of an 
egg. Boil butter and sugar three minutes, then add slow- 
ly two tablespoonfuls of flour, then slowly boiling water 
enough to thin. Good and easily made. 

Pineapple Tapioca. 

One-haif cup minute tapioca, \ cup sugar. 3 of hot 
water, 1 can pineapple. Soak tapioca in 1 cup cold water ; 
put on to cook in hot water, add sugar ; after taking off 
add pineapple; cover with whipped cream. Peaches can 
be used in place of pineapple if desired. 

Old English Plum Pudding. 

One pound raisins, stoned, 1 pound Santa currants, 
washed and dried, 1 pound of finely chopped suet, 1 
pound of grated stale bread. Mix these ingredients and 
add 1 pound sugar, 1 pound of flour, 1 quart of milk, (i 
eggs, well beaten, 1 blade of mace, J nutmeg, grated 
citron, shredded, and candied orange and lemon peel may 
be added to enrich it. Sultana raisins may also be added, 
but the rule given above, without these extra ingredients, 
will be found very nice. A wine glassful of rose water 
will be found an addition. Boil 8 or 10 hours. Serve 
hot with vanilla sauce or hard sauce. 

Fruit Puff Pudding. 

One pint flour (sifted), 2 teaspoons baking powder and 
9 little salt. Mix with sweet milk until very soft, place in 
steamer well greased cups, put in each a spoon of batter, 
then one of fruit, cherries, cranberries or any cooked 
sauce. Cover with another spoon of batter antl steam 20 
minutes. 

Sauce. — 1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 1 cup boiling milk. 
Flavor. 

52 



PUDDINGS. 

Graham Pudding. 

One and § cup graham flour, -J cup molasses, j cup of 
butter, J cup of sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 full 
teaspoon soda, 1 cup currants, J cup raisins, | teaspoon 
cinnamon and cloves. Steam 2| or 3 hours; if put in a 
greased pail in kettle of water, will cook in H "hours. 

Sauce for the above. — Mix smoothly 3 tablespoons of 
butter, h cup of sugar and 1 tablespoon of flour ; then 
pour on boiling water and let boil at once ; remove from 
fire and season with lemon ; sometimes a little salt is 
necessary. 

Prune Souffle. 

One pound stewed prunes, whites two eggs, \ cup 
sugar; after the prunes are stewed let juice, boil down; 
remove the stones, and mash prunes in the juice ; beat 
the eggs very stiff and add gradually the sugar, beating- 
all the time, then stir in the chopped prunes. Bake 20 
minutes, serve with custard sauce made of 1 pint of milk, 
yolks of the eggs, sugar and vanilla flavoring. 

Prune Pudding. 

One-half pound prunes, soaked and stoned, stew till 
very tender, sweeten and beat up good, add whites of 6 
eggs well beaten. Bake 20 minutes. Serve cold with 
whipped cream poured over it. 

Peach Shortcake. 

One cup sugar, butter size of walnut, 2 eggs, \ cup 
sweet milk, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, flour (to mix 
like cake). Bake in layers, spread with fresh or canned 
peaches. Serve with whipped cream. 

Rice Pudding. 

One quart of milk, 3 tablespoons of rice, 1 cup of 
sugar. Bake 2 hours. 

53 



PUDDINGS. 

Raisin Puffs. 

One-half cup butter, 1 of sugar (creamed), 2 eggs, 1 
cup milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 
1 cup raisins seeded and chopped. Steam -| hour in 
cups. Serve with lemon or jelly sauce. 

Gooseberry Pudding. 

One quart of scalded gooseberries, rubbed smooth ; 
when cold, with the back of a spoon take of the pulp 6 
tablespoons. | a pound of sugar, ] of a pound of butter 
(melted), 6 eggs, the grated rind of 2 lemons and a 
handful of grated bread. Bake \ hour. 

Snow Balls. 

Cream I of a cup of butter and \ a cup of sugar gradu- 
ally. Sift 1 cup of flour with \ a cup of Kingsford Corn 
Starch and 3 level teaspoons of baking powder. Add 
this mixture alternately with about § of a cup of milk 
and stir in gently the stiff whites of four eggs. Place 
this batter in 6 well buttered cups and steam for \ hour. 
Turn out gently, roll in powdered sugar and serve hot 
with strawberry sauce. 

Strawberry Sauce. — Cream \ cup butter with \\ cup 
powdered sugar, add yolk of 1 egg. Add cup crushed 
berries just at serving time. Any fruit in season may be 
used in this way, for either steamed or baked puddings. 

Orange Pudding. 

Six oranges, peeled, sliced thin and sprinkled with 
sugar. Make a boiled custard of 1 pint of milk, yolks of 
3 eggs, 1 tablespoon of cornstarch, 3 tablespoons of 
sugar, pinch of salt. When cool, pour over the oranges. 
Whip whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar and put 
on top. Set the dish in a pan of water and put in hot 
oven a few seconds until frosting is browned. To be 
eaten cold. 

54 



PUDDINGS. 

Fruit Pudding. 

One quart canned cherries. Drain off the juice, boil 
with 1 cup of sugar. Pour this over 1 pint of bread 
crumbs and add the fruit and 3 eggs well beaten. Pour 
all into a buttered dish and bake \ hour. Frost as lemon 
pies. Drop jelly on top. Serve with either plain or 
whipped cream. 

Snow Pudding. 

Take 3 tablespoons cornstarch to 1 pint boiling water. 
Boil 5 minutes. While boiling add § cup sugar, add juice 
of 1 lemon, and stir into it the whites of 3 eggs, beaten 
, to a stiff froth, then mold. 

Saace: — 1 pint milk and yolks of 3 eggs. Sweeten and 
flavor to taste. 

Apple John. 

Make a dough with 1 cup of sifted flour, heaping tea- 
spoon of baking powder, | teaspoon of salt, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 tgg, ^ cup of milk. Pare and slice a pint of good 
cooking apples and put them in a pudding pan, spread 
them with the batter which should be very thick. When 
baked, reverse on a heated dish, grate nutmeg over the 
apples, sprinkle with sugar and dot with bits of butter. 
Serve with good cream. 

Rice Cream. 

Stew | cup of rice in 3 cups of milk until soft. Add 2 
cups of milk and yolks of 3 eggs, beaten with 4 table- 
spoons of sugar. Let boil and put in custard dish. Frost 
and brown in oven. 

Brown Betty. 

Peel and cut up and stew some nice tart juicy apples, 
sweeten well and put them into a buttered pudding dish 
in alternate layers of cracker crumbs. Add a sprinkle of 
cinnamon and lump of butter. Top with bread crumbs. 
Bake and serve hot with cream. 

55 



PIES 



"Ef my old nose don't tell me lies. 
It 'pears like I smell custard pies." 



Pie Crust. 



Take | cup lard, § flour, little salt. Work lard and 
flour together as little as possible. Mix with fresh cold 
water. This is improved by rolling a little lard into top 
crust. Dredge with flour before rolling out. 

Lemon Pie. 

The grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, yolks of 3 eggs, 
H cup of sugar, 1 cup hot water, 2 tablespoons corn- 
starch or flour, 1 teaspoon butter. Cook in double kettle, 
and when cold put it in the crust which has previously 
been baked. Beat the whites of the 3 eggs and tablespoon 
of sugar for frosting and brown slightly. This makes 

2 pies. 

Lemon Pie. 

Take the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup white 
sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons flour. Bake with 
under crust and cover with frosting. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

One cup chopped rhubarb, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon. Bake with 2 crusts. 

Mock Mince Pie. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, \ cup of vinegar, \ 
cup of butter. Boil together a few minutes. Then add 

3 crackers rolled fine, 2 eggs well beaten, \ pint of chop- 
ped raisins. Spice to taste. 

56 



PIES. 

Mince Meat. 

One quart bowl meat, 2-| bowls apples, y bowl of mo- 
lasses, 1 bowl sugar, § bowl of boiled cider, 2 teaspoons 
of salt, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon, -J teaspoon of cloves, 1^ 
lemon, butter, between 2 and 3 pounds, 1 pound of suet, 
liquor meat is boiled in, 3 pounds of raisins, currants to 
suit taste, | pound of citron, -J- pound of lemon peel. 
Quantity of each of the above ingredients to 1 bowl of 
meat. 

Ripe Currant Pie. 

One cup ripe currants, 1 cup sugar, 1 large tablespoon 
of flour, 3 tablespoons of water, yolks of 2 eggs. Beat all 
together. White for frosting. 

Cream Pie. 

Line pie pans with lower crust and bake. Take 1 pint 
of milk, 1 cup of sugar, § cup of flour and yolks of 2 eggs. 
Heat the milk, beat the other ingredients together, stir 
into the milk and let it boil until it thickens, not letting 
it get too stiff, as it gets a little stiffer when cold. Re- 
move from stove, flavor to taste, and pour into the baked 
pie crust. Beat the whites of eggs stiff, add a little sugar, 
pour over the tops of the pies and set in the oven to 
brown. The above makes 2 pies. 

Cream Puffs. 

Boil together H cup water, -| cup butter, and while 
boiling stir in 1 cup of flour dry ; take from the stove and 
stir to a thin paste, and after this cools stir in 4 eggs 
unbeaten ; stir it 5 minutes ; drop in tablespoonfuls on 
buttered tin and bake in a quick oven 25 minutes ; be 
careful that they do not touch each other in the pan. 
This amount will make IS puffs and never fail to puff. 

57 



PIES. 

Cream for Cream Puffs. 

One cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 3 tablespoons flour, 
vanilla to flavor; stir the Hour in a little of the milk; boil 
the rest of the ingredients ; turn in the flour and milk 
and stir until the whole thickens. When the cream and 
the puffs are cold, open the puffs a little way with a 
sharp knife and fill them with the cream. 

Mock Cherry Pie. 

Take 4 cup seeded raisins, chopped fine, 1 cup cran- 
berries, cut in halves, 1 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla. 1 tablespoon of flour, a pinch of salt. Mix to- 
gether thoroughly, pour over \ cup of boiling water. 
Bake between 2 crusts. 

Banana Pie. 

Make crust and bake. Scald 1 pint of sweet milk; mix 
h cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 heaping tablespoon corn 
starch, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla extract; 
stir this into the boiling milk and slice in 2 bananas. Fill 
crust and frost with whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoons 
of sugar. Then brown in oven. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Take 1 cup pumpkin, \ cup sugar, 1 cup rich milk, 
2 eggs, 2 tablespoons molasses, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, 2 teaspoons melted buttter and a 
pinch of salt. Mix and bake. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Take 1 cup well cooked pumpkin for 1 pie and add 
-I cup sugar, ? cup milk, yolks of 2 eggs, I teaspoon 
allspice, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, a little ginger if liked. 
Use whites of the eggs for frosting with 2 tablespoons 

sugar. 



PIES. 

Pineapple Pie. 

Take 1 cup pineapple, chopped fine, t-J- cup sugar, 
■J cup sweet cream, yolks of 3 eggs. Use whites for me- 
ringue. Bake in 1 crust. 

Jelly Pie. 

Beat 4 eggs, add to them 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup butter, 
1 cup sweet cream, 1 cup jelly (currant or grape), 2 
tablespoons vanilla. Stir yolks and sugar, cream the 
butter, add cream, then jelly and vanilla, and the beaten 
whites last. Xo meringue. 

Huckleberry Pie. 

Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, add 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
and stir in 2 cups canned berries or 3 fresh ones, sift 
together 1 scant cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour, | tea- 
spoon salt, and acid to the berry mixture. Bake in 1 crust 
and when done cover with meringue made of wdiites of 
3 eggs and granulated sugar. Beat until glosssy, then 
cut and fold in 3 more tablespoons of sugar — set in oven 
a moment to dry. 

Dried Peach Pie. 

Take | pound dried peaches and cook slowly, sweeten 
and mash the peaches with a spoon and add sugar to 
taste and a little allspice and cinnamon, 1 tablespoon of 
flour and a bit of butter. Bake in - i crusts. This will 
make 2 pies. 

Raisin Pie. 

Take 1 cup stewed raisins, I cup sugar, 1 tablespoon 
flour, and lump of butter. After stewing raisins, add 1 
cup of water, add the mixed flour ?.nd sugar, stir in and 
let simmer. Bake with 2 crusts. 

59 



PIES. 

Custard Pie. 

Take 1 pint of milk. 3 eggs. 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 
teaspoon of flour, a pinch of salt, and flavor to taste. 

Mock Mince Meat. 

Take 1? cup of bread crumbs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, 
\ cup vinegar, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, \ cup butter ; 
spice and boil together. 

Chocolate Pie. 

Mix well 2 tablespoons flour and \ cup sugar, gradu- 
ally add 1 cup of water and butter the size of an egg. 
Boil and stir to a smooth paste. Add 2 well beaten yolks 
of eggs with £ square of chocolate. Fill crust with 
filling, frost and bake. 

French Pie. 

Butter deep pie tin and fill with sliced apples spread 
with sugar and nutmeg, and over all pour the following 
mixture : Yolks of 2 eggs, | cup sugar, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and | cup 
sweet milk. Bake until the apples are soft and turn out 
on plate with the apples on top. Make a meringue, cover 
and brown. Serve hot. 

Martha Washington P?e. 

One cup sugar. 1 cup rich sour cream, H cup flour, 
1 even teaspoon soda, I teaspoon cream tartar, 2 eggs, 
pinch of salt. For filling, take 1 egg, \ cup sugar, \ pint 
milk, flavor to suit, 1 teaspoon corn starch, salt. Heat 
the milk and add other ingredients. 



CO 



CAKES 



"Variety is the very spice of life, that gives it ail its flavor." 



Cake. 

To the creamed butter and sugar add the beaten yolks, 
reserve a small portion of the flour to mix with the 
baking powder, add milk and flour alternately until all 
are used. Get the cake into the oven quickly as possible. 
Use only pulverized sugar for delicate cakes. When 
fruit is used rub well with flour. Put cakes in moderate 
oven, allow cake to rise, then increase heat in order to 
brown. If oven is too hot set a dish of cold water in 
and remove when oven is sufficiently cooled. 

Angel Food Cake (Small). 

Whites 5 eggs, scant 3 cup flour, sifted five times, with 
£ teaspoon cream of tartar. | teaspoon of flavoring; bake 
J hour. 

Angel Food. 

Sieve together 1 1-5 cup sugar, and 1 cup of flour seven 
times. Beat the whites of 12 eggs partially, then add 
a level teaspoon cream of tartar, continue beating until 
very stiff. Then fold lightly in the sugar and flour. 
Flavor ; put in ungreased pan and bake 45 minutes in 
moderate oven. 

Nut Cake. 

One cup sugar, J cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 2^ cups 
flour, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder, whites of 
4 eggs, 2 cups of English walnuts. 

62 



CAKES. 

Nut Cake. 

One cnp of sugar, \ cup butter, 2 eggs, | cup sweet 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 1 cup nut 
meats, teaspoon vanilla; sift flour and baking powder 
together, cream the butter, beat in the sugar gradually, 
then the yolks of the eggs and flavoring; add milk and 
flour alternately, and lastly, the stiff-beaten whites of 
eggs; mix in carefully the nut meats, chopped coarsely; 
bake in shallow pans ; ice and put unbroken halves of 
the nut meats on top. 

Icing. — Boil sugar and water till it threads, beat white 
of egg fairly stiff, turn boiling sugar into it, and stir 
rapidly about 30 seconds ; then put in beater and beat 
until light and creamy ; when cool, spread between layers. 

Icing. — 1 cup granulated sugar, 5 tablespoons water, 
white of 1 egg. 

Loaf Hickory Nut Cake. 

Take H cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 cups flour, whites 
of f eggs, f cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
1 cup chopped hickory nut meats. Bake in loaf, in slow 
oven. 

Nut . Cake. 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, beaten to a cream, 1 cup 
milk, ^ teaspoon vanilla, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, lastly, add the whites of 5 eggs, beaten stiff. 
This makes 3 large layers. 

Filling. — 1 cup of nuts, 1 cup of sugar, § cup of sweet 
cream, a little corn starch if needed to help thicken, 
flavor to taste, boil till quite thick. 

Walnut Cake. 

Four eggs (the whites). 2 cups sugar. \ cup butter, 
1 cup of milk, 3.V cups flour. 1 cup walnut meats, chopped 
fine, 1 cup seeded raisins (can be left out), f level tea- 
spoons baking powder, sifted with flour. 

63 



CAKES. 

Spice Cake. 

One teacup of brown sugar, 1 teacup of molasses, I 
cup of butter, 1 teacup chopped raisins, § cup of sour 
milk, 2i teacups of flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda, 1 
teaspoon of nutmeg, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon. 

Poverty Cake without Eggs. 

Take 4- cup of butter, 2 cups of brown sugar, 1 cup of 
sour milk, H cup of flour, | cup chopped raisins, 1 tea- 
spoon of soda. 1 teaspoon of vanilla, cloves and nutmeg. 

Spice Cake. 

Take H cup sugar, | cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 1 
teaspoon soda, 3 eggs, 3 scant cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
cinnamon, 1 teaspooon cloves, a little nutmeg, 1 cup 
seeded raisins, chopped. 

Economical Devil Food. 

Three squares Baker's Chocolate, 1 cup milk, 2 -table- 
spoons butter, 1 cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 even tea- 
spoon soda, about 2 small cups flour ; cream the butter 
and sugar ; add \ the milk very slowly, then add the 
eggs ; boil the chocolate with J the milk until thick ; 
when slightly cool add to the mixture. Put soda into 
just enough hot water to dissolve it. Bake in 2 layers. 
When cold, add the middle layer, made of the following: 
\\ :utes of the 2 eggs, beaten stiff, 2 cups granulated" 
sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar, enough water to dissolve 
the sugar ; boil the sugar, water and vinegar until long 
threads will hang from the spoon ; have ready the beaten 
whites on a large platter ; pour boiling syrup into the 
eggs quickly ; flavor with vanilla ; beat until it will stand 
alone, then drop on to the cake and shape with the fin- 
gers dipped in cold water ; when firm, place top layer of 
cake. 

64 



CAKES. 

Gertie's Christmas Cake. 

Take H cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 3 cups Hour, 
1 pound of raisins, 1 pound of currants, | pound of 
citron, 1 tablespoon cloves, 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 
tablespoons molasses, 1 nutmeg, grated, 2 teaspoons 
soda, dissolved in very little hot water. This quantity 
makes 2 loaves. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Take ^ cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 1] cup flour, .-i 
cup sour milk, \ teaspoon soda. 2 eggs, 2 squares of 
chocolate, 1 teaspoon of vanilla. 

Economical Brown Stone Front. 

One cup milk, yolk of 1 egg, i cake of chocolate (boil 
until thick), 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon butter, i cup sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, H cup flour ; mix together. 

Filling. — 1 cup sugar, boil until it will hair, beat in 
the beaten white. 

Cocoa Cream Cake. 

Cream ^ cup butter until smooth, then beat in 1 cup 
sugar, add the beaten yolks of 3 eggs and h, teaspoon 
vanilla. Sift together l| cup of flour, 5 level tablespoons 
of cocoa, and 2 even teaspoons baking powder. Add ^ 
cup of milk and the sifted flour afterwards, beat well. 
Then mix in the stiff whites and bake in a moderate 
oven in 2 layers. Put together with a cream or boiled 
icing. 

Chocolate Loaf. 

One large cup of sugar, -| cup butter, 2 eggs, ^ cup of 
sour milk, 1 teaspoon of soda, dissolved in a little hot 
water, I of a cake of chocolate, melted, and 2 cups of 
flour. Add vanilla to taste. 

65 



CAKES. 
Dolly Varden Cake. 

One cup sugar, 4 cup butter, 3 eggs, | cup sweet milk, 
2 teaspoons of baking powder, 2 large cups of flour ; beat 
butter and sugar together, then add eggs, reserving whites 
of 2 for frosting; then milk, and lastly, the flour and 
baking powder; bake in 3 layers; before filling the last 
tin, add \ cup of raisins, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon, ^ tea- 
spoon of cloves ; use this as a middle layer. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar. 1 cup of butter, yolks of 5 eggs, 
and the whites of 2, 1 cup of sweet milk, 34_ cups flour, 
£ teaspoon of soda, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 

Filling. — Whites of 3 eggs, | cup sugar, 3 tablespoons 
grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Put cooked frost- 
ing on top. 

Marble Cake. 

"White part. — 1J- cup sugar, \ cup butter, \ cup sweet 
milk, whites of 4 eggs, 2| cups of flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. 

Dark part. — 1 cup brown sugar, \ cup molasses, i cup 
butter, I cup sweet milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 2h cups flour, 
i teaspoon each of cloves, allspice, nutmeg and cinnamon. 

Dark Chocolate Cake. 

One cup sugar, -J cup butter. \ cup sweet milk. -J eggs, 
2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon of soda. 

Cream part.— 1 cup grated chocolate. $ cup sugar, h 
cup sweet milk, yolk 1 egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla, cook until 
it thickens and stir while cooking. When cool, beat into 
the other part of the cake. 

Icing. — H cup pulverized sugar. 5 tablespoons grate il 
chocolate, boiling hot water to make cream. 

1 



CAKES. 
Chocolate Cream Cake. 

Cake part. — 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, | cup of sour rnilk, 
\ cup of butter, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 cups of flour; beat 
butter and sugar to a cream, then add sour milk with 
soda thoroughly dissolved, then the flavor and last the 
eggs. 

Cream part. — Yolk of 1 egg, I cup of sweet milk, 1 
teaspoon of vanilla, scant cup of grated chocolate, sugar 
to taste; cook until of the consistency of cream. When 
cream is cold stir into the cake, beating thoroughly. 
Bake in layers and put together with cooked frosting. 

Pound Cake. 

( )ne cup butter, 2 cups sifted flour, cream butter and 
flour together to a soft cream, H cup of sugar, 6 eggs; 
beat sugar and eggs together; h teaspoon of baking 
powder, 1 teaspoon of lemon extract, bake in slow oven 
1 hour. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

Prepare and allow to cool -i cup grated chocolate. 
-i- cup hot milk or water, stir until smooth, H cup granu- 
lated sugar, i cup butter (scant), 2 cups flour, with 1 
teaspoon baking powder added, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 eggs, 
beaten separately, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in hot water, 
^ nutmeg, grated, 1 teaspoon vanilla, bake in 2 layers ; 
cream the butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, well 
beaten, then milk, flour and soda, nutmeg, vanilla, choco- 
late, and lastly, whites of eggs. When cold, add the 
middle layer made of the following: Whites of 2 eggs, 
beaten stiff. 2 cups gramtlated sugar, 1 tablespoon vine- 
gar, a little water, cook until it threads, then pour hot 
liquid into whites of eggs, beat until you can mold into 
shape, add ^ teaspoon vanilla, place between chocolate 
layers. 

67 



CAKES. 

Dark Layer Cake. 

Take 1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup sour milk 
or cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 

1 teaspoon cinnamon, | teaspoon cloves. Flavor with 
vanilla and strawberry. 1 cup raisins or 1 cup currants. 
Flour to make thin batter. Bake in layers and use white 
frosting and cocoanut. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups sugar. 1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 5 
eggs, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder; rub the 
butter and sugar to a cream, beat the whites and yolks 
separately, divide the dough in 2 parts, put the whites 
in 1 part and the yolks in the other; flavor the white 
with lemon and the yellow with nutmeg, bake two layers 
of each. 

Filling. — 3 tablespoons of grated chocolate, 4 cup of 
sugar, as much boiling water. 4 teaspoons corn starch, 
butter the size of a hickory nut, cook until it thickens, 
when cool, flavor with vanilla. Put the cake together 
in alternate layers, white and yellow. 

Spice Cake. 

Cream 1 cup of butter, add 2 cups of brown sugar, 
beat until creamy, add 1 cup molasses and beaten yolks 
of 4 eggs, place in the sifter 1 cups of flour, 1 level tea- 
spoon of soda. | teaspoon cloves, 4 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 
• easpoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of salt, sift and mix to- 
gether with 1 cup of water ; bake in moderate oven. 

White Fruit Cake. 

L cup sugar. 4 cup butter, 4 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 

2 flour, whites of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons sweet milk, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, lj pound citron (cut fine), \ 
pound almonds, blanched and chopped, 1 teacup dessi- 
cated cocoanut. 

63 



CAKES. 

Spice Cake. 

Four eggs, leaving out the whites of 2, 2 cups of C 
sugar, £ cup melted butter, 4- cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon 
of soda, dissolved in the milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 4 
teaspoon cloves, 4 teaspoon nutmeg, 2 cups of flour, bake 
in layers. 

Potato Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, J cup butter, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
of grated chocolate, 1 cup grated potato, 4_ cup sweet 
milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 24 cups of flour, § cup 
of nut meats. 

Layer Cake. 

Two cups sugar, £ cup butter, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 24 cups flour, whites of 6 eggs, a little 
lemon extract. 

Filling. — Cup milk, 1 scant cup sugar, butter size of 
walnut, corn starch and yolk of 1 egg, \ teaspoon lemon 
extract, 1 cup of nuts or \ cup of dates, chopped. 

Plain Cake. 

One cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, § cup milk, 14 cup 
flour, 1 egg, 2 teaspoons baking powder; bake in layers. 

Tutti Frutti Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter. 1 cup of milk, 
whites of 5 eggs, 4 cups of flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, divide into 4 parts, leaving 1 plain, to 1 layer 
add \ cup of chopped nuts, to another, \ cup of chopped 
raisins and some fine citron, to the last layer add \ cup 
of cocoanut, and the grated rind of a lemon or an orange. 
Put together with a plain icing having the white layer 
at the bottom, the raisins next, then the cocoanut, and 
the nut layer on top. Better baked in long or square 
tins. 

69 



CAa£S. 
Roll Jelly Cake. 

One cup sugar, 3 tablespoons butter, 3 egg's, 3 table- 
spoons water, 1 teaspoon flavoring, 2 cups (scant) flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder sifted with flour. 

Jelly Roll. 

One cup sugar, 4 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon cream of 
tartar, i teaspoon soda, pinch salt. Mix soda, and cream 
tartar with flour, beat eggs very light, add sugar and 
flour, then beat light again. Spread with jelly while 
warm and roll. 

Cream Cake. 

Break 3 eggs in a cup and fill the cup with sweet 
cream, 1 cup sugar, H cup flour, 1-J teaspoon baking pow- 
der; salt and flavoring to taste; bake in layers and fill 
with whipped cream. 

Never Fail Sponge Cake. 

4 eggs; 1] cup sugar; 2-J- cups flour: 1 cup boiling 
water; 4 teaspoons baking powder. Separate the eggs, 
placing white in the mixing bowl. Beat white stiff, add 
the 4 yolks. Beat well. Add sugar gradually and stir 
until very light. Add water and continue beating until 
smooth. Add the flour with baking powder carefully 
mixed in. Flavor with teaspoon vanilla. Gently fold 
in the three beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in very 
slow oven from 45 to 60 minutes. 

White Cake. 

Two cups granulated sugar, § cup butter, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 3 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, whites 
of 8 eggs; cream the butter and sugar; then add a small 
portion of each ingredient alternately ; beat very thor- 
oughly ; baked in a loaf or three layers. 

ro 



CAKES. 
Illinois Cake. 

Beat 1 cup sugar and 3 tablespoons of melted buttei 
until it creams, then 2 eggs, saving the white of 1 egg 
for filling, -I cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder, sifted with 2 cups of flour, flavor with lemon and 
beat until very light ; bake in two layers, put together 
with boiled frosting and sliced bananas. 

Feather Cake. 

Two cups sugar, f cup butter, 3 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 
3 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 

Loaf Cake. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet cream, S 
eggs, 3^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon saleratus, 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar or 3 teaspoons baking powder ; flavor to 
suit taste. 

Never fails. 

Apple Sauce Cake. 

Take 1^ cup dry apple sauce, \ cup shortening, 1^ cup 
sugar, \ teaspoon nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, 2| 
cups flour, 1 cup raisins. Mix dry ingredients. Melt 
shortening in hot apple sauce and mix together.- Paper 
your cake pan. Add 2 teaspoons soda in 1 of hot water. 
Bake 45 or 50 minutes. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cups sugar, yolks of 5 eggs, 2^ cups flour, 1| tea- 
spoons baking powder, \ cup cold water, a little salt, 
juice of 2 oranges, whites of 3 eggs. 

Filling. — Whites of three eggs, grated rind of orange, 
one tablespoon juice, powdered sugar to make as frost- 
ing. If white frosting for top layer is desired, take out 
some of filling before adding orange. 

71 



CAKES. 
Orange Cake. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup butter, stirred to a cream, 1 cup 
sweet milk, 3 eggs well beaten, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder; bake in sheets. 

Frosting. — Whites of 2 eggs. Make frosting as for 
other cakes, save out enough to frost the top of the cake ; 
add to the rest the juice and grated rind of a large orange, 
or 2 teaspoons of orange extract, and spread between 
layers. 

Feather Layer Cake. 

One-third cup of butter creamed with two cups sugar, 
whites of 5 eggs well beaten, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups 
flour stirred in gradually, 3 teaspoons baking powder ; 
flavor to taste ; bake in layers ; use any filling. 

Lemon Cake, Good. 

Two cups sugar, f cup butter (beat well together), 
1 cup sweet milk, 4 eggs, 3 cups flour, 3 small teaspoons 
baking powder. 

Filling for above. — One lemon, grated rind and juice, 
1 egg, 1 cup sugar ; boil till quite thick ; when moder- 
ately cool, put betweeen layers and cover whole with 
cooked frosting. 

Cream Cake. 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs, scant -| cup butter, 4 cup sweet 
milk, scant £ teaspoon of sale'ratus. 

For the cream. — \ pint sweet milk, \ cup sugar, 1 egg, 
2^ tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. 

White Cake. 

One cup sugar, J cup butter, ^ cup sweet milk, 1^ cup 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 5 eggs. 



CAKES. 

Hot Water Sponge Cake. 

One cup sugar, 2 eggs well beaten together, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder sifted with one cup flour; stir well to- 
gether, then stir in 1 cup boiling water or milk ; bake 
quickly in a buttered tin. If these directions are fol- 
lowed the cake will be nice. 

Mother's Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 3 tablespoons 
sweet cream, 1 teaspoon baking powder, a pinch of salt. 

White Mountain Cake. 

One cup sugar, | cup butter, 2 eggs, ^ teacup sweet 
milk, 1 "teaspoon cream of tartar sifted in 2 cups flour, 
^ teaspoon saleratus ; put saleratus in the milk. This 
is very good with | cup of seeded raisins added, and 
bake in small cup cakes, then frost. 

Yellow Delicate Cake. 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar, 1 cup butter, 
1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, 6 eggs, beat 1 in at a time ; bake in layers with a 
few raisins or nuts in middle layer. 

Fruit Cake, Plain. 

One cup sweet milk, ^ cup molasses, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, ^ pound of both raisins and 
currants, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon cloves and cinna- 
mon, 2 teaspoons nutmeg and baking powder, 3 cups 
flour. Seed the raisins and flour the fruit to prevent 
its settling at bottom of pan. Butter paper and place 
in cake pans and leave a piece above the pan. 

73 



CAKES. 

Plain Yellow Cake. 

One cup sugar, I cup butter, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, l'cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour. 

Sponge Drops. 

Beat the whites of 3 eggs until stiff and dry and add 
gradually while beating constantly, £ cup powdered 
sugar. Add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten until thick and 
lemon colored, J teaspoon vanilla. Cut and fold in I cup 
flour mixed and sifted with J teaspoon salt. Drop mix- 
ture from tip of spoon on unbuttered paper, arranged on 
a tin sheet. Sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake 8 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Tea Cakes. 

One cup sugar, 1 egg, butter size of an egg, 1 
cup sour milk. 1 scant teaspoon soda dissolved in milk 
— flour to thicken, flavor as needed ; bake in gem pans. 

Snow Cake. 

Two scant cups sugar, \ cup butter, % cup sweet .nilk, 
3 cups flour, the whites of 8 eggs, 2^ teaspoons baking 
powder ; flavor with extract of bitter almonds ; stir to- 
gether the butter and sugar, until the mixture seems 
to break and is almost white ; sift the baking powder 
into the flour previously' sifted, then put all through the 
sieve again ; add alternately and little by little the milk, 
beaten whites and flour ; now beat for fifteen minutes.. 
After the cake has been in the oven 5 minutes, open the 
door for 3 minutes, then close it and at the end of five 
minutes, again open the door for 2 or 3 minutes; then 
close the door until the cake is done. Use boiled icing 
flavored with lemon. 

74 



CAKES. 

Fruit Cake — Fine. 

One and one-half pound of flour. 1\ pound brown 
sugar, | pound butter, 1 pound raisins, 1 pound currants, 
| pound figs, 1 pint sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice; 1 large 
cup almonds, 1 glass brandy, 4 eggs, juice 1 lemon and % 
pound citron. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Three-fourths cup butter, 2 cups sugar creamed, yolks 
10 eggs, 2^ cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup 
miik, teaspoon lemon or orange, boil 50 minutes and 
frost with yellow frosting made of yolk of 1 egg, 1 table- 
spoon water. 1 teaspoon lemon or orange flavor and 
confectioner's sugar until thick enough to spread. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup butter creamed together, add 
the juice and rind of 1 lemon, then the yolks of 5 eggs 
beaten light, 1 cup sweet milk, 24 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, 2 ounces of cocoanut and whites of eggs 
added last. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

One pound granulated sugar, 1 pound butter, 4 eggs, 
1 teacup milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of 
tartar and 1 pound flour. Cream the butter and sugar and 
add the milk and other ingredients. Beat all well to- 
gether until creamy, then stir in one finely grated cocoa- 
nut. Bake in moderate oven. 

Blackberry Cake. 

One cup sugar, \ cup butter, 1 cup blackberry jam, 
3 tablespoons sour cream, \ teaspoon nutmeg, cinnamon, 
allspice, one cup flour, bake in long, shallow pan. 

75 



CAKES. 

Irish English Cake. 

One p' jnd butter, 1 pound currants, 1 pound raisins, 
1 pound sugar, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoon baking powder, 1 
pint sweet milk, pinch of salt, | pound candied lemon 
peel, 6 drops essence of lemon, 7 cups flour, one to be 
used over the fruit. Bake 1 hour and 20 minutes, but you 
can test it better with a broom straw. 

Sponge Cake. 

Small cup sugar, yolks 4 eggs, tablespoon lemon juice, 
beaten together with egg beater. Whites 4 eggs beaten 
stiff, 1 cup flour, 1 even teaspoon baking powder, pinch 
of salt. 

Velvet Sponge Cake. 

Two cups sugar, 6 eggs (leaving out the whites of 3), 
1 cup boiling water, 2% cups flour, 1 tablespoon baking 
powder in the flour ; beat the yolks, add the sugar, then 
the three beaten whites, and the cup of boiling water 
just before the flour; one teaspoon lemon extract; bake 
in layers. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Whites of 7 eggs, yolks of 5, 1^ cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 
teaspoon cream of tartar, a pinch of salt, added to whites 
of eggs before whipping, flavor to taste. Sift, measure 
and set aside flour and sugar. Whip eggs to a foam, 
add cream of tartar and whip until very stiff, add sugar 
to the whites, and beat in, then yolks beaten very stiff, 
then flavor and beat flour to be folded lightly through. 
Bake in moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes. 

Uncooked Icing. 

To 1^ cup confectioner's sugar, add | cup of unsalted 
(preferred) butter, beat to a cream, then add 2 table- 
spoons cocoa, 2 tablespoons strong coffee and one table- 
spoon vanilla. 

76 



CAKES. 

Caramel Filling. 

One cup sweet cream, 1^ cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon 
butter; boil 40 minutes, put between layers and on top. 

Cream Filling for Cake. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with | cup of sugar, add a 
small piece of butter and 1 teaspoon of corn starch, dis- 
solved in f cup milk. When cooked add 1 cup chopped 
raisins, 1 cup chopped nuts and 1 teaspoon vanilla. This 
should be cooked in a double boiler and is a delicious 
filling for any layer cake. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Grate rind 1 lemon, add juice, 1 egg, 1 cup sugar (white) 
4 tablespoons cold water ; mix well together and cook 
over steam until clear. 

To Soften Cake Frosting. 

If the icing should harden before putting it on the 
cake add a teaspoon of cream and stir quickly for a 
few seconds. This will soften the icing long enough 
to enable it to be put on the cake smoothly. 

Cold White Icing, 

White of 1 egg, 1 tablespoon cold water, pulverized 
sugar to thicken. 

Chocolate Icing. 

One and one-half cup pulverized sugar, five table- 
spoons grated chocolate ; hot water to spread. 

Chocolate Filling. 

One ounce Baker's chocolate, 1 cup sugar. I cup milk 
boil until thick, remove from fire and heat until cool 
enough to use. 

77 



CAKES. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

One cup granulated sugar, 1 white of egg, i cup boiling 
water, beat egg stiff, add 1 scant level teaspoon cream 
of tartar, turn hot syrup into egg, beat until it thickens, 
add melted chocolate. 

Icing. 

Two-thirds cup sugar, 2 tablespoons water ; let boil 
and when done pour over the beaten whites of two 
eggs. 

Raisin Filling for Cake. 

Two small cups sugar. | cup water; boil till it begins 
to be brittle; when done, stir in beaten whites of two 
eggs and then | cup seeeded and chopped raisins. 

Filling for Devil Food Cake. 

One and one-half cups C sugar, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, 7 cup cream, \ cup chocolate, 1 tablespoon butter; 
cook until it forms a soft ball in cold water, then beat 
until it begins to harden, flavor with vanilla, add \ cup 
chopped English walnuts and \ cup floured raisins; 
spread on cake quickly. 

Filling. 

Walnut filling for cake. — One cup sugar. \ cup sour 
cream, \ cuj chopped nuts, lump of butter; boil until it 
is thick enough to spread. 



78 



COOKIES 



"To make them one must have a spark of genius." 



Vanilla Cookies. 

One and one-half cup sugar, 1^ cup butter, ^ cup sweet 
milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1| tea- 
spoons vanilla, roll, sprinkle with sugar, bake quickly. 

Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, -J cup butter, | cup lard, 1 cup 
buttermilk, two level teaspoons saleratus. Flavor with 
lemon, vanilla or cinnamon (essence). 

Dark Cookies. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup lard, 1 table- 
spoon soda, dissolved in f cup boiling water, stir all 
together, adding 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
and a little salt ; work the batter stiff with flour. 

Sour Cream Cookies. 

One cup sugar. 1 cup sour cream, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, flavor with caraway 
seed or flavoring. 

Ginger Cookies. 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons ginger, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
butter, 1 tablespoon soda, 1 cup molasses ; mix in flour 
■;o make rather stiff. 

Ginger Cookies. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup (N. O.) molasses, 1 egg, | cup 
butter, 1 teaspoon soda. § cup sour milk, or black coffee, 
1 teaspoon ginger ; other spice may be added if desired ; 
flour enough to roll. 

80 



COOKIES. 

Marguerites. 

Take the whites of three eggs, beat stiff and add one 
pound pulverized sugar. Add a cup of chopped pecan 
nuts. Spread on thin crackers, and brown slightly in 
an oven. Stack on a plate and serve with cheese. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Two cups C sugar, 3 eggs. § cup butter, -|- teaspoon 
soda, 4: tablespoons of boiling water, nutmeg; hour 
enough to make soft dough. 

Brown Sugar Cookies. 

Two cups light brown sugar, 1 cup butter and fresh 
lard mixed, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 4 table- 
spoons of warm water, flour to roll. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Three eggs, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, I teaspoon 
saleratus* dissolved in | cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon va- 
nilla ; flour to knead soft. 

Fruit Cookies. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, one scant cup 
butter, i cup molasses, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup 
raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 teaspoon cloves, ginger, cin- 
namon and allspice ; flour to mix soft. 

Columbia Cookies. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1 cup butter, % cup sweet 
milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream of tar- 
tar ; flavor to taste; cream the butter and sugar; add 
the milk and eggs beaten very light ; sift the soda and 
cream of tartar into flour ; have it as soft as you can 
handle ; roll thin ; sprinkle with sugar ; bake in quick 
oven. 

81 



COOKIES. 

Chocolate Cookies. 

• Two squares Baker's chocolate boiled until thick with 
^ cup milk, H cup sugar, J cup butter, 1 tablespoon of 
lard, -\ cu p sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda ; to this add 
chocolate and two cups flour or more if needed ; roll, 
sprinkle with sugar, and bake in cpiick oven, 

Scotch Cookies. 

One cup shortening, 1 cup sugar, § cup of sour milk, 
1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon saleratus, nutmeg; rub sugar, 
flour and shortening together; then add other ingredi- 
ents. 

Sugar Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, J cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoon ginger. 1 teaspoon soda, a litttle salt ; flour 
to mix soft. 

Boston Cookies. 

One cup butter, 1.1 cup sugar, ■"> egg-. 1 teaspoon soda, 
1.1 tablespoon boiling water. :>{ cups Hour, -} teaspoon 
salt, 1 heaping teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup chopped Eng- 
lish walnuts, | cup currants. \ cup seeded chopped rais- 
ins ; cream the butter and sugar, add the well beaten 
eggs, add soda dissolved in water, half the flour mixed 
and sifted with salt and cinnamon, then add nut meats, 
fruit and remaining flour; drop by spoonfuls 1 inch apart 
on a buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven. 

Ginger Snaps. 

( >ne cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 eggs 
,vell beaten, 1 rounded teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 or 
:i tablespoons warm water, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon 
cinnamon, mix stiff with flour. Cream butter and sugar, 
add molasses, then soda in water, beat eggs and add 
lastly flavor and spices. 

S2 



COOKIES. 

Ginger Cookies. 

One enp molasses, \ enp brown sugar, \ cup dripping 
butter or lard, \ cup sweet milk, 1 scant teaspoon soda, 
2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ginger, 2 cups flour; 
stand over night. In morning add flour to roll out. 

Ginger Cookies. 

One coffee cup butter, 1 coffee cup granulated sugar, 1 
coffee cup (N. O.) molasses, 3 eggs; don't beat 
much ; 2 tablespoons cold water, f teaspoon ginger, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, h teaspoon allspice, 2 level teaspoons 
soda dissolved in boiling water, about 2 tablespoons ; add 
this last. Mix very soft and bake in a quick oven. 

Oatmeal Macaroons. 

Rub 1 teaspoon butter into 1{> cup sugar and mix 
with 1 well beaten egg; stir in 1-J- cups rolled oats, ] 
teaspoon salt, -} teaspoon baking powder. Drop in small 
shapes in buttered tins and bake in hot oven till brown 
and crisp. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

Mix together 1 cup sugar and i cup butter, add 2 beaten 
eggs, | cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder sifted with 2 cups flour, 1 cup chopped 
raisins or currants, and 2 cups oatmeal; drop in but- 
tered pan and bake. 

Cookies. 

One-half cup molasses, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little cold water, 1 cup raisins seeded and chopped, 1 
cup currants, 1 teaspoon of all kinds of spices, flour to 
roll. These will keep a long time if you hide the cooky 

jar. 

83 



COOKIES. 

Jumbles. 

Three cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sweet cream, 5 
cups flour, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup 
cocoanut. 

Coffee Cake. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs well 
beaten, 1 cup milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, salt, flour 
enough to make a stiff dough, and roll about ^ inch thick; 
sift on ground cinnamon evenly and thick over it ; then 
roll up like jelly cake; cut in slices \ inch thick, lay 
them in granulated sugar, and bake quickly, sugared side 
up. This will make about 45 cakes. 

Sour Cream Cookies. 

(hie cup sugar. 2 eggs, H cup flour, 1 cup sour cream, 
1 level teaspoon soda, a pinch of salt. Flavor to suit. 

Grandmother's Ginger Cookies. 

Take 1 cup molasses, 1 cup soft sugar. 2 eggs, § cup 
butter and lard mixed, \ cup sour milk and cream mixed, 
1 teaspoon ginger, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, salt, good tea- 
spoon soda and flour to mix soft. 

Mary's Cookies. 

Take 2 scant cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, ^ cup 
sweet milk. 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in milk, 2 tea- 
spoons cream of tartar sifted with flour, salt and nutmeg. 
Mix soft. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

One-half cup butter, 4 cup lard. 2 cups brown sugar, 
1 cup (N. O.) molasses, I cups oatmeal, 3^ cups flour, 
1 teaspoon soda in 4 cup hot water. Do not roll but 
drop from spoon. 

84 



COOKIES 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

One cup sugar, § cup butter, 2 eggs, J cup sour milk, 
1 teaspoon soda, 2 cups white flour, 2 cups rolled oats, 
1 cup raisins. Drop from spoon. 

Rocks. 

One cup butter, H cup light brown sugar, 3 eggs, 1^ 
cup raisins stoned and chopped, 3 cups flour, pinch of 
salt, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a tablespoon of hot 
water, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup nut meats chopped. 
Drop cakes on tins instead of rolling them out. 

Rocks. 

One and one-half cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs well 
beaten, 3 cups flour, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 3 table- 
spoons brandy or water, 1 small teaspoon soda dissolved 
in hot water, 1 pound walnuts chopped fine, 1 cup rais- 
ins ; drop with teaspoon. 

Rocks. 

Take 1^ cups brown sugar, f cup butter, 3 beaten eggs, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 even teaspoon soda in ^ cup 
water, 2f cups flour. 1 cup nuts, 1 cup dates, raisins or 
currants. 

Frosted Creams. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, ^ cup butter, ^ cup 
lard, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour milk in which is dissolved one 
dessertspoon of saleratus, 1 dessertspoon ginger, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, flour to roll. Cut in squares i of an inch 
thick and bake. 

Frosting. — H cup of sugar; put with this 2 teaspoons 
of water, let it boil on back of stove until it threads, then 
add whites of 2 eggs slightly beaten ; add. ". ; teaspoons of 
lemon. 

85 



COOKIES. 

Fruit Ccokies. 

Two cups sugar. 1 cup butter : [ L cup sour milk, 2 cups 
stoned and chopped raisins, 1 cup of English currants. \ 
cup citron, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon saleratus. Spice as for 
fruit cake. Roll the dough thicker than for cookies with- 
out fruit. 

Wine Drops. 

One cup each of sugar, molasses, melted lard and cof- 
fee, 1 egg and pinch of salt, o teaspoon each of cinnamon 
and cloves, 2 teaspoons soda. 5 cups flour, 1 cup chopped 
raisins. 



8G 



BREAD, CORNBREAD, 
MUFFINS 



"And if the bread contentment brings, 
You'll dine with me again." 



To Make Bread. . 

Boil 3 potatoes and mash them fine while hot. Work 
into them 1 teaspoon each of lard and sugar. Stir in a 
pint of water in which the potatoes were boiled — this 
.should be lukewarm. Wet up a pint of flour with a 
little potato water and add this to the sugar, lard and 
potatoes. Stir until the batter is smooth. Add to this 
J cake of yeast dissolved in 4 tablespoons of warm water 
and a pinch of soda. Set to rise over night in a warm 
place. Next morning sift 1 quart of flour salted and 
turn the sponge into it. The dough should be as soft as 
can be moulded. Knead 20 minutes or more, set aside 
and let it rise to three times'its original size, knead into 
loaves and bake. 

To Bake Bread in Five Hours. 

Scald 1 quart of sweet milk and let it cool to blood 
heat. Add 2 dissolved compressed yeast cakes, 2 tea- 
spoons salt and 1 sugar. Use this mixture for wetting 
the flour, which should be of sufficient quantity to make 
a fairly stiff dough. Let rise in a temperature of 80 
degrees for 4 hours. Knead into loaves and put into 
greased pans. Let them rise and then bake for v hour. 
In the first mixing use a spoon to beat the dough vigor- 
ously to insure a perfect mixing and wetting of the flour. 
In kneading for the pans work each loaf 4 minutes. This 
will insure the best bread ever eaten. 

87 



BREAD, CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 
White Bread. 

Boil 6 good sized potatoes in plenty of water until 
soft ; have ready a cup of flour, 1 cup sugar and J cup salt, 
well mixed in a two-gallon jar; turn the water from the 
potatoes on the mixture, scalding it well ; add the mashed 
potatoes. When cool add enough warm water to make 
a gallon of the mixture. Add H yeast cakes soaked in a 
cup of warm water. Set in a warm place in the evening. 
In the morning mould into a hard lump, let rise, mould 
into loaves. The thin mixture will keep a week in cool 
place. 

Bread. 

Enough potatoes boiled and mashed fine to make 1 cup 
full; into the potato put 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons 
salt and 1 yeast cake softened in as little water as can 
wet it. When light put into 1, 2 or. 3 quarts of warm 
water, as the number of loaves needed ; as much flour as 
will make a stiff batter, 2 tablespoons heaped with salt, 
1 teaspoon of cottolene, butter or lard, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar; beat until well mixed; place where it will keep 
warm and when light mix stiff and knead well, let rise, 
mould down once, and when light put into pans. Let 
rise, then bake. 

Salt-Rising Bread. 

Take 1 teacup of new milk, let it boil, then stir in 2 
tablespoons of meal. Set it where it will keep warm 
enough to lighten. Next morning thin with warm water 
and enough flour to make a thin batter, also \ teaspoon 
of "alt. Set in warm water and the rising will come 
quickly. Take flour, 1 tablespoon lard, about 1 teaspoon 
salt. Mix quite soft with warm water the desired quan- 
tity. Knead well, grease pan well and top of bread ; set 
to lighten in a warm place. When it is quite light put it 
to bake. 



BREAD. CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 

Home Made Yeast. 

Save potato water and add 4 large potatoes mashed 
fine, add 1 cup sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon sail, U cups 
flour stirred in while hot, soak a yeast cake in 1 cup water 
2 hours, add to the mixture, keep in a cool place. 1 cup 
is equal to 1 cake of yeast. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Rub iy tablespoon butter and i tablespoon lard into 2 
quarts of sifted flour ; into a well in the middle pour 1 
pint of cold boiled milk and add | cup yeast, | cup sugar 
and a little salt. If wanted for tea, rub the flour and 
butter and boil the milk and cool it the night before ; add 
sugar, yeast and salt and turn all into the flour, but do 
not stir. Let stand over night ; in the morning stir up, 
knead and let rise till near tea time, mould and let rise 
again and bake quickly. Roll out and cut with cake cut- 
ter ; put a little melted butter on half and lap over ; put 
them in the pan about 5 of an inch apart. This rule will 
make three dozen. 

Rolls. 

Take 1 cup of sponge, 1 cup scalded milk, a tablespoon 
of lard, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, salt ; mix, let rise and 
bake. 

Almond Buns. 

One cup soft yeast (from bread sponge), J teaspoon 
soda (in yeast), f teaspoon salt, 1 large cup milk, warmed, 
with \ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, well beaten, 1 tea- 
spoon lemon extract, flour to mix stiff with spoon. Let 
rise, roll 1 inch thick, cut with small cutter, place in pans, 
brush top with white of egg lightly beaten, sprinkle with 
chopped almonds and broken loaf sugar, let rise again; 
bake | hour in moderate oven. 

89 



BREAD, CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 

Coffee Cake. 

Four cups of raised dough, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 egg | cup butter, 1 tablespoon lard ; knead the 
same as bread ; let it rise until light, and then knead 
again ; when ready to put in the oven, spread on butter, 
a little sugar and cinnamon. 

Coffee Cake. 

With 1 quart flour, sift 1 teaspoon of baking powder ; 
rub into this 1 tablespoon butter and lard. Add 2 well 
beaten eggs, 2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon, H cup 
stewed raisins and 2 cups soft sponge. Mix well together 
to constistency of bread and let rise in a warm, greased 
jar for about 2 hours. Mould into loaves and let rise 
again until quite light. Hake in moderate oven. 

Breakfast Buns. 

Take i cup of lard, 1 cup of bread sponge. 2 cups warm 
water, 1 cup sugar, and salt to the taste. Make a coft 
dough, just after dinner in winter, or in summer at about 
3 or 4 o'clock, and let it rise until !» o'clock in the evening. 
Then mold it into buns about the size of an egg, place in 
pans an inch apart each way. Set pans in a warm place 
and bake in the morning. 

Corn Bread. 

Two cups of flour, 1 cup of corn meal, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon 
of butter, melted, H cup of sweet milk, ^ cup of sugar, 
3 teaspoons of baking powder, salt. 

Corn Cakes. 

Two cups flour, § cup corn meal. 5 cup butter, f cup 
white sugar, 2 eggs, well beaten, i cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 2 teaspoons of cream tartar or three teaspoons of 
baking powder. Bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. Use 
gem tins. 

90 



BREAD CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 
Corn Cakes. 

Take 1 cup sifted wheat flour, \ cup corn meal, 2 level 
teaspoons baking powder, -\ teaspoon salt, 1 rounded 
tablespoon sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 well beaten egg, 2 
tablespoons melted butter. Mix and beat for 5 minutes 
and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. 

Golden Corn Cake. 

Take f cup corn meal, H cup flour, J cup sugar, 4 tea- 
spoons salt, 1 cup milk, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon melted butter. 
Mix ingredients., add milk and egg, well beaten, and 
butter. Bake in shallow buttered pan 20 minutes in hot 
oven. 

Corn Bread. 

Put into a sieve 1 cup wheat flour, 1 cup corn meal, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder and a pinch 
of salt. Sift this into a large bowl and add to it 2 table- 
spoons melted butter, 1 cup milk. Beat 1 egg in a cup 
and fill cup with milk. Add this to batter and stir just 
long enough to mix. Bake 20 to 30 minutes in a shallow 
pan. 

Bread Sticks. 

To a little bread dough add some butter, mix thor- 
oughly and roll in small sticks, let rise and bake to a 
light brown, leaving them in the oven until dry. Serve 
as a w r afer. 

Nut Bread. 

Two eggs, well beaten, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 cup nut meats, 4 cups flour, 4 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder (rounded), let rise 20 minutes, bake nearly 
an hour. Mix the eggs, sugar and salt, add milk and 
flour as for cake (a little at a time), nuts last. 

91 



BREAD, CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 
Graham Bread. 

Take | cup brown sugar, J cup white sugar, 1 egg, \ \ 
cup sour milk, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, "U cup graham flour, U cup white flour, 
1 tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons ground nuts. Mix and 
bake. 

Graham Nut Bread. 

Mix 3 cups graham flour, \ cup white flour, \ cup sugar, 
£ cup of nut meats, chopped fine, ! cup raisins, 2 cups 
milk, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Bake in loaf ^ hour. 

Graham Loaf. 

Mix 2 cups graham flour. 1 cup white flour, 1 \ cup sweet 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup molasses. Salt to taste and 
steam 2| hours. 

Graham Gems. 

lake ? cups graham flour; do not sift; sift in 1 cup 
white' flour with 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 2 table- 
spoons of sugar, a little salt ; rub in a piece of butter the 
size of an egg; beat 2 or 3 eggs very light ; add them and 
sweel milk enough to make a batter, about 2 cups. Bake 
quickly in muffin rings or gem pans. 

Good Graham Gems. 

Three cups sour milk, 1 egg, well beaten, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 tablespoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon melted lard. To the egg add the milk, then the 
sugar and salt, graham flour with the soda mixed in, to- 
gether with the lard. Make a stiff batter, so that it will 
drop and not pour from the spoon. Have gem pans very 
hot ; grease, fill and bake 15 minutes in a hot oven. This 
recipe will make two pans. 

92 



BREAD, CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 

Graham Gems. 

A small tablespoon of butter or lard. 3 tablespoons of 
sugar, 1 egg. 1 coffee-cup of sour milk, 1 level teaspoon 
of salcratus, a little salt. Stir in enough graham flour 
to make a batter as thick as for griddle cakes. Put in but- 
tered gem tins and bake in a quick oven. 

Blueberry Bread. 

Baked as gems. 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 
butter size of walnut, 3 cups Hour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder. Add 1 quart of fresh berries; stir in very lightly. 

Lemon Biscuit. 

Take 1 cup lard, 2\ cups sugar, 1 pint sweet milk, in 
which is dissolved 5 % cents worth of each oil of lemon 
and ammonia, add Hour to make a stiff dough and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

( )ne cup white hour, 2 graham hour, 2 Indian meal, 1 
teaspoon soda, 1 cup molasses, 3| cups of sour milk, a 
little salt. Beat well and steam 1 hours. This is im- 
proved by setting in the oven 30 minutes after steaming. 
To be eaten warm. 

Rhode Island Brown Bread. 

Mix 2\ cups Indian meal, U cup graham or rye meal, 
1 cup (N. O.) molasses, 1 egg salt, 1 (scant) quart sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in milk, add beaten egg 
last. Steam 3 hours, brown in oven \ hour. 

Tea Roll. 

One quart good, rich milk and make the same as bak- 
ing powder biscuit. Roll rather thin and spread with 2 
tablespoons of butter and I of sugar, whipped to a cream. 
Roll like jelly roll and cut in thin slices. Bake quickly. 

93 



BREAD, CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 
Milk Biscuit. 

One quart flour, 1 teaspoon salt. 4 teaspoons baking 
powder, 1 round tablespoon shortening, add gradually 1| 
cup milk, just sufficient to moisten, brush top with milk, 
bake 'quickly 20 minutes. 

Brown Bread. 

One cup graham, 1 cup rye, 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 4 cup milk, \ cup sour milk, 1 dessertspoon soda, 
1 teaspoon salt. Beat flour with molasses, steam 3 to 4 
hours. This makes 1 large loaf or 4 small ones. \\ cup 
graham and K corn meal may be used if desired with- 
out rye flour. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

Beat 1\ pound of flour, .'! ozs. lard, 1 teaspoon salt, \ 
pint cold water until it cracks and bake 

Fruit Muffins. 

Two teaspoons baking powder, :! eggs. 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 3 cups flour, a little salt, add 1 heaping cup 
of fresh fruit, bake in muffin rings in quick oven. 

Annie Moffet's Muffins. 

One egg, beaten, J cup sugar, pinch of salt, 1 table- 
spoon butter. 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup flour, 2 small tea- 
spoons baking powder ; bake in gem pans. 

Graham Muffins. 

Sift 1 quart graham flour, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 heaping 
tablespoon baking powder, add 2 ozs. butter, 2 beaten 
eggs, with milk enough to make a thin batter. Half fill 
the greased muffin rings and bake in a quick oven. 

94 



BREAD, CORNBREAD, MUFFINS. 

Matino Muffins. 

Mix 2 well beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 2^ cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder, and bake. 

Scotch Short Bread. 

Two pounds flour, 1 pound of butter, ^ pound powdered 
sugar. Rub butter and flour into soft dough, knead in the 
sugar, roll into a sheet ^ inch thick, pinch round tbe 
edges. Bake on buttered paper in a shallow tin until 
crisp and of a delicate brown. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

One pint of flour, 1 tablespoon butter, melted ; 2 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, salt. Bake in gem pans. 

Breakfast Gems — Good. 

One cup of milk, 1 cup of flour, 1 egg, a pinch of salt. 
Beat as long as you have time and strength. Bake | 
hour in hot oven. 



95 



GINGERBREAD AND 
DOUGHNUTS 



"Enough's a feast ; eat some and pocket up the rest.' 



Best Gingerbread. 

Take ^ cup sugar, 1 cup molasses. | cup butter, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon, ginger and cloves, 2 teaspoons 
of saleratus in a cup of boiling water, 24 cups of flour, 
2 well beaten eggs, the last thing before baking. 1 cup 
of seeded raisins may be added, making it extra fine. 

Poor Man's Gingerbread. 

One teaspoon soda, dissolved in 1 cup (N. O.) mo- 
lasses, add 2 tablespoons butter, | cup sour milk, 1 tea- 
spoon ginger, H cups flour. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

One Qgg, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour cream, 1 teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, flour to make a batter that will 
just drop from the spoon. Good when warm. 

Honey Comb Ginger Drops. 

Put into a bowl 1 cup of dark brown sugar, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup butter; pour 1 cup boiling water, in which 
2 small teaspoons of soda is dissolved, over the sugar, 
butter and molasses, and stir thoroughly, then put in 2 
teaspoons of ginger and | teaspoon of cloves, the 2 eggs, 
well beaten, and 5 cups of flour, bake in well greased 
patty pans in a hot oven. 

96 



GINGERBREAD AND DOUGHNUTS. 

Gingerbread. 

One cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon soda. 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 3 cups Hour, 1 teaspoon 
vinegar. 

Ginger Drop Cakes. 

One cup sugar, 1 cup butter and lard, mixed and beaten 
well, 2 eggs, 1 cup sour milk, 2 tablespoons of (N. O.) 
molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, make it 
thick enough with flour for gem pans. 

Ginger Drops. 

One cup lard, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, ."> 
eggs, 1 large tablespoon ginger, 1 tablespoon soda, dis- 
solved in 1 cup boiling water, 5 cups flour. Drop from 
spoon or bake in gem pans. 

Ginger Drop Cakes. 

Take 3 eggs, 1 cup of lard, salt, 1 cup of molasses, 1 
cup of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon of ginger, cloves and 
cinnamon, 1 tablespoon of saleratus. Dissolve in a cup of 
boiling water, 5 cups of unsifted flour. Drop tablespoons 
of this mixture into a greased dripping pan about 3 inches 
apart. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup sugar, butter the size of an egg (melted). 1 
cup sweet milk, 3 well beaten eggs, pinch of salt, nutmeg 
to taste, flour to roll soft. 

Doughnuts. 

Two cups sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 2 cups sour milk, 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in part of milk, nutmeg, 
flour enough to mix stiff. 

97 



GINGERBREAD AND DOUGHNUTS. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup of sugar, \ cup of sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda, 
2 eggs, 1 cup of sour milk, salt, nutmeg, flour to roll. 

Doughnuts. 

Three eggs, beaten very light, 1 cup sugar. 1 cup sour 
cream, ."> teaspoons baking powder, a pinch of salt; roll 
in sugar right from the hot fat ; Hour to roll. 

Doughnuts. 

One cup of sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 
egg, h teaspoon of salt, 4 tablespoons of melted lard ; sea- 
son with nutmegs or cinnamon; mix lard and sugar to- 
gether. 

Puff-Bail Doughnuts. 

These doughnuts, eaten fresh and warm, are a delicious 
breakfast dish and are quickly made. 3 eggs, 1 cup of 
sugar, 1 pint of sweet milk, salt, nutmeg, and flour enough 
to permit the spoon to stand upright in the mixture; add 
2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder to the flour; beat 
all until very light ; drop by the dessertspoon into boiling 
lard. These will not absorb a bit of fat and are not at all 
rich. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Three coffee cups of bread sponge, h CU P butter, $ cup 
of sugar, 2 eggs. Knead not quite so stiff as for bread: 
let stand in a warm place until light. Do not knead again. 
With a sharp knife cut into pieces size of a small egg 
and le" stand for 2 hours ; fry in hot lard ; roll in sugar. 



Note. — As doughnuts are removed from hot fat, dip 
quickly in pan of boiling water, which will remove grea e 
Set pan of water aside to cool, then skim oft" grease. 

98 



PANCAKES, WAFFLES, 
FRITTERS 



"Let butter drench them in its yellow tide 
And a long slice of bacon grace their side." 



Dining Car Wheat Cakes. 

Two cups milk, 2 beaten eggs, ] cup melted butter, ] 
cup sugar, pinch salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder, add 
flour for thick batter. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. 

One cup cold boiled rice, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, salt, 2 beaten eggs, milk to thin the batter. 

Corn Meal Pancakes. 

( >ne egg, well beaten, ] cup sugar, salt, 2 cups sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in a little hot water, -i 
cup flour, corn meal to mix soft. 

Flour Pancakes. 

One pint milk, i teaspoon salt, yolks of *- eggs, flour 
to make thin batter, add 2 teaspoons baking powder, mix 
thoroughly ; whites of eggs, well beaten and stirred in 
gently. 

Pancakes. 

One cup sweet milk. 1 heaping teaspoon baking pow- 
der, pinch of salt, separate egg and add the well beaten 
white just before baking. 

100 



PANCAKES, WAFFLES, FRITTERS. 
Bread Pancakes. 

Mix 1{> cup stale bread crumbs, 1 cup sweet milk, let 
stand 5 minutes, add \ teaspoon salt, 2 well beaten eggs, 
2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, add milk to 
the right consistency. 

Fritters. 

Two eggs, J pint milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder, add whites just before frying 
in hot lard. 

Fritters. 

Three eggs, H cup of milk, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 
salt and flour to make a batter thicker than griddle cakes. 
Drop in hot lard and eat with maple syrup. 

Norwegian Fritters. 

One-half can corn, | cup milk, 1 egg, 1 large cup flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder. Season with salt and pepper. 
Drop from spoon into hot lard. 

Waffles. 

Beat 3 eggs,, sift together 1 quart flour, 3 teaspoons 
baking powder. Rub | cup butter or lard into flour, arid 
eggs. Use sweet milk enough to make a good batter. 
Fill hot well buttered irons § full. 

Cream (Pink) Toast. 

Heat 3 tablespoons butter in a saucepan, when it bub- 
bles, add 3 tablespoons flour, mix with i teaspoon salt. 
and stir in gradually i cup stewed tomatoes, in which 
I teaspoon of soda has been dissolved, add \ cup scalded 
rnilk, and pour over C> large slices of nicely browned 
toast. 

101 



PANCAKES, WAFFLES, FRITTERS. 

Banana Fritters. 

Cut nice bananas in half, roll in eg£ and bread crumbs, 
fry in hot fat. Serve with hot liquid sauce. 

Eggs on Toast. 

Take 3 or 4 boiled eggs and remove the yolks from the 
whites ; make a cream dressing of 1 pint of milk, thick- 
ened with flour, adding a little piece of butter ; cut up the 
whites of eggs into small pieces and stir into dressing; 
lay several pieces of toast dipped in warm milk on a 
platter and pour the dressing over them ; when this is 
done crumble the yolks of eggs and sprinkle over the 
whole. A very nice dish for tea. 

Griddle Cakes. 

Sift together J cup graham and i cup wheat flour, 2 
tablespoons baking powder, | teaspoon salt, 1| table- 
spoon baking powder, ^ teaspoon salt, 1^ tablespoon 
sugar, 1 egg, beaten light, lj cup sweet milk, and 1 table- 
spoon melted butter. Fry on hot griddle and serve with 
maple syrup. 

Flannel Cakes. 

One teaspoon butter, 1 pint flour, 1 salt spoon salt, 2 
eggs, well beaten, 2 cups sweet milk, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder ; rub butter into the flour, and add the salt, beat 
the yolks of the eggs light, then add the milk to them, 
and when well mixed, stir milk into the flour until per- 
fectly smooth, beat the whites, add them, and lastly, the 
baking powder, and bake on a hot griddle. 

Bread Griddle Cakes. 

One cup dry bread crumbs, 2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggi, milk enough to 
thin the batter. 

102 



PICKLES 



"The chief pleasure in eating clues not consist in costly 
seasoning or exquisite spices, but in yourself." 



Prepared Mustard. 

Mix | cup mustard, rubbed smooth with cold water, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, piece of butter about 
the size of a hickory nut. Boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from the fire and thin with vinegar. 
This will make about a pint. Will keep for a long time 
in a cool place, and improves with age. 

Pepper Hash. 

One dozen green peppers, 1 dozen red peppers, 1 dozen 
medium sized onions, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 tablespoon 
celery seed, I cup salt. Remove the seeds from peppers 
and pour boiling water over them. Let stand until cool, 
then chop peppers and onions, add sugar, salt and seed. 
Pour vinegar over them (not enough to cover them) and 
let come to a boil. Seal while hot. 

Pepper Sauce. 

Three large, big round cabbage heads, 10 green peppers, 
18 red peppers, | pound mustard seed, 1 ounce celery 
seed, i pound ground mustard, 2 pounds brown sugar, 
1 tablespoon ground cloves, 5 quarts good vinegar. Chop 
cabbage and peppers very fine ; add 3 handfuls salt to the 
cabbage and drain over night. Boil the vinegar with 
the spices and sugar 10 minutes, and pour the boiling 
mixture over the cabbage, etc. Next day pour off the 
liquor and boil again and pour over for 3 mornings and 
it is ready for use. 

104 



PICKLES. 
Horseradish. 

One cup freshly grated horseradish, 1 teaspoon salt, $ 
teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon made mustard, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 2 tablespoons vinegar. Mix well together, then 
add 1 cup cream, whipped stiff. 

East India Chutney. 

Take £0 each of good sized sweet and sour apples — the 
sweetest and toughest, the sourest and tenderest — quar- 
ter and core the sweet ones, but do not pare them; pare, 
quarter and core the sour ones ; cook all with 3 pints vine- 
gar, 4 full cups sugar, add 2 pounds raisins. The sour 
apples should be soft and broken, the sweet ones clean 
and in shape. When cold add a full coffee cup of ginger 
and mustard, mixed in equal parts, 1 teaspoon pepper, 
scant \ cup salt, a bowl of chopped onions (raw) and 2 
large chopped peppers without the seeds. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

One peck cucumbers, 1 dozen onions, chopped very fine, 

1 handful salt. Mix and put in a sieve and let drain over 
night. Season with ground black pepper and celery seed. 
Cover with cold vinegar. 

Cucumber and Celery Pickle. 

One-half peck green cucumbers, pare, take out seeds, 
chop and let stand over night with -J- cup salt. In the 
morning drain and mix with an equal quantity cf celery, 
cut into small pieces. Add to this 2 cups chopped onions, 
3 or 4 green peppers and 1 or 2 red ones, chopped, | cup 
yellow mustard seed, 2 cups sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 

2 teaspoons cloves. Cover with vinegar and let come to 
a good boil. This will keep in a stone jar all winter, and 
is much more delicate and fine in flavor than green toma- 
to pickles. 

105 



PICKLES. 



Chili Sauce. 

Thirty-six ripe tomatoes, 12 onions, 6 green peppers, 
2 cups sugar, 4i cups vinegar, 4 teaspoons salt ; 2 of cin- 
namon and allspice, 1 of cloves. Peel tomatoes and cook 
with onions and peppers until tender. Add other ingredi- 
ents and cook. 

Chopped Pickle. 

Two cabbages, fi cucumbers, 6 large onions. 1 quart 
green tomatoes (when chopped), 6 stalks of celery, 2 
ounces white mustard seed, 2 ounces black mustard seed, 
f cup of grated horseradish, 1 tablespoon of ground mus- 
tard, 1^ pound of brown sugar, ^ cup of salt, 3 green 
peppers. Chop cabbage, cucumbers and onions, and let 
stand over night in vinegar enough to cover, slice to- 
matoes and sprinkle with salt ; let stand over night. Pour 
off vinegar, and when all ingredients are in, put more 
vinegar over, enough to cover. 

Cucumber Relish. 

To 4 dozen large cucumbers add 1 dozen green peppers, 
2 ounces each of white and black mustard seed, 3 dozen 
white onions, -| dozen red peppers and 1 ounce of celery 
seed. Chop fine ; sprinkle with salt, and let it stand over 
night. In the morning drain well and boil 3 quarts of 
vinegar, 1 pound of brown sugar and the spices together. 
Pour over the cucumbers and put in air-tight jarSc 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Soak cucumbers in good brine for 2 days, then wash off 
in cold water. Fill glass jars. For every 2 quarts put in 
several pieces of horseradish, 1 tablespoon whole pepper, 
1 tablespoon whole allspice, 1 teacup light brown sugar, 
and cover with good, cold vinegar. If desired, 6 small 
onions and 1 stalk of celery may be added. 

' 106 ' 



PICKLES. 

Cold Catsup. 

One peck ripe tomatoes, peeled, chopped fine and drain- 
ed, 1 pint of grated horseradish, 1 pint of celery, chop- 
ped fine, 1 cup of chopped onions, 2 tablespoons of 
chopped red peppers, 3 tablespoons of sugar, 4 table- 
spoons of salt, 1 tablespoon of ground cinnamon, 1 tea- 
spoon each of ground cloves and mace, 1 quart of good 
cider vinegar. Mix thoroughly and pack in a stone jar. 
It will be ready for use in a few days. Keep in a cool 
place and it will keep all winter. This will make 1 gallon. 

Chili Sauce. 

One peck ripe tomatoes (chopped), 4 green peppers, 8 
onions, 1 quart vinegar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, J teacup 
salt (small), ^ teacup sugar. Boil 2 hours and bottle hot. 

Sweet Pickles — Good. 

Eight pounds of fruit, 4 pounds of best brown sugar, 1 
quart of vinegar, and 1 cup of mixed whole spices, stick 
cinnamon, allspice and cloves; less of the latter than of 
the former. Tie the spices in a bag. and boil with vine- 
gar and sugar. Skim well, then add the fruit. Cook 10 
minutes, or till scalded and tender. Skim out the fruit 
and put into stone jars. Boil the syrup 5 minutes longer, 
and pour over the fruit. The next day pour off the syrup 
and boil down again, and do this for 3 mornings. Keep 
the bag of spices in the syrup. 

Watermelon Pickles. 

Take 1 gallon watermelon rind, 2 teaspoons salt, cover 
with water and boil till tender ; take out and press each 
piece in a coarse towel. Cook 1 quart vinegar and 3 
pints of sugar with spice to taste, cover the rinds and 
boil a little 3 successive mornings. 

107 



PICKLES. 
Quince and Sweet Apple Pickle. 

Take twice the quantity of sweet apple that you have 
quince, weigh all when first pared ; steam the quince until 
thoroughly done, take as many pounds of sugar as you 
have fruit, add 1 pint of water for every 3 pounds of 
sugar. Have the syrup boiling and put the quinces in, let 
them cook slowly until a bright red color, then skim out 
and put in i the apples and cook until done, and then 
cook the rest in like manner. Place alternately in a jar 
a layer of quince and apple and cover with the syrup. 

Piccalilli. 

One peck tomatoes, sliced, 1 teacup salt, let stand over 
night. In the morning, drain off liquor, and add 2 quarts 
vinegar, H oz. cloves, 2^ pounds B sugar, 12 onions, 
handful mixed spices tied in cloth. Boil until well cooked. 

Piccalilly. 

One peck green tomatoes, 1 cup salt, 4 red peppers, -1 
green peppers, 4 onions, 1 cup sugar, 1 stalk grated horse- 
radish, 1 tablespoon each of different spices. Chop toma- 
toes fine, sprinkle the salt over and let stand over night. 
Drain off the water, chop onions and peppers fine, mix 
well with the other ingredients. Put in a kettle, cover 
with vinegar, boil slowly till well cooked. 

Mixed Pickles. 

Scald in salt water until tender, cauliflower heads, small 
onions, cucumbers cut in dice, tomatoes, string beans and 
nasturtium seeds, if desired, then drain until dry, and 
pack in bottles. Pour over a dressing made of 1 pint 
vinegar, 1 tablespoon sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons 
mustard. Seal while hot. 

108 



PICKLES. 

Mustard Pickles. 

Take 1 quart each of white onions, cauliflower (chop- 
ped), green tomatoes and cucumbers, 2 quarts vinegar, 
2 green peppers, chopped fine, f good sized cup flour, 1-A 
cup sugar, 5 tablespoons mustard, 1 teaspoon each of 
celery and mustard seed and tumeric powder. Put the 
onions, tomatoes and cucumbers in a weak brine over 
night. In the morning scald in the brine. Scald the 
cauliflower separately. 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

Cut up 2 cauliflowers, 1 pint small onions, .'? medium 
peppers ; dissolve | pint of salt in water enough to cover 
all. Let stand over night. Drain next morning. Heat 
2 quarts best vinegar with 4 tablespoons ground mustard 
and | pint sugar until it boils ; add vegetables and boil 
for 15 minutes. 

Small Cucumber Pickles. 

Wash cucumbers well and put in weak brine for 3 
days. Remove, wash, drain, scald in good cider vinegar 
spiced to suit; add small piece of alum. Pack in a jar. 
Boil vinegar and sweeten. Pour over pickles and seal 
air-tigdit. 



100 



FRUIT 



'A little peach in the orchard grew, 
A little peach of an emerald hue." 
(Listen to our tale of woe.) 



Currants and Oranges. 

Three quarts currants, I large oranges (chopped), 2 
pounds raisins (stoned), its weight in sugar; cook all 
20 minutes. 

Pickled Peaches or Crab Apples. 

Take 3^ pounds brewn sugar. " pounds fruit, j- pound 
stick cinnamon, ] pound cloves, 1 quart cider vinegar, 
boil sugar and vinegar to a syrup; have ready your pre- 
pared fruit, drop in syrup, cook until tender, take out 
carefully, put in jars. Boil syrup down till thick, then 
pour over pickles and cover very firm. 

Spiced Currants. 

Five pounds currants, :1 pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 

1 tablespoon cloves, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon 
allspice, J tablespoon salt. Boil together until thick. 
Can use gooseberries or cherries the same. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Wash and pick over the fruit and boil till soft in enough 
water to cover it. Strain through a sieve and weigh equal 
quantities of the pulp and sugar. Boil gently 15 or 20 
minutes ; stir occasionally, that it may not burn. 

Blackberry Jam. 

Two quarts blackberries. 1 quart of fine cooked apples, 

2 quarts of sugar. Jam all together. Cook \ an hour, 
or until thick. 

110 



FRUIT. 

Peach Butter. 

Cook peaches to a pulp, to 1 bowl peaches take | bowl 
sugar. Cook 15 minutes. 

Quince and Cranberry Jelly. 

Cut up 6 quinces and cook with 2 quarts of cranberries, 
strain, then to 1 pint of juice use 1 pound of sugar; cook 
as for jelly. 

Nut Marmalade. 

Four pounds rhubarb, 6 pounds white sugar. 1 pound 
almonds, 4 lemons. Chop almonds and lemons fine and 
put all together. Do not peel rhubarb or lemons or 
blanch almonds. Add 1 cup water and boil 1] hour. Put 
in jelly glasses and cover with paraffin. 

Plum Butter. 

• Two quarts plum pulp. 1 quart apple pulp, U quart 
sugar, add cinnamon to taste and cook until as thick as 
desired. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

One quart cranberries, J pint boiling water, 1 pound 
sugar; boil cranberries 10 minutes, strain, add sugar and 
cook 5 minutes. 

Dandy Jam. 

Two pints rhubarb, 1 pint red raspberries, ->\ cups 
sugar. Boil 20 minutes. 

Fruit Cheese. 

Stone a pound of dates, add to them a pound of raisins, 
a pound of figs, a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, 
a half a pound of pecans and a half pound of Brazil nuts. 
Put the mixture through a meat chopper, and pack into 
tumblers. Keep in a cool place. 

nt 



FRUIT. 

Apple Butter 

Take good, tart apples and cook them down until they 
are real thick, stirring them constantly. Add \ as much 
sugar as you have apples. Let cook \ hour, stirring 
briskly to keep from burning. Remove from stove and 
while hot add cinnamon, allspice and cloves to Suit taste. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Cover 12 orange:., 3 lemons, sliced very thin, with 5 
pints water and let stand 2d hours. Then cook 1 hour, 
add 8 pounds sugar, cook another hour, pour in glasses. 
Stir often after the sugar is added. 

Ginger Pears. 

Eight pounds pears, 8 pounds sugar, 1 pound crystal- 
lized ginger, juice of 2 lemons. Pare and quarter (do not 
remove core or seed) the fruit, put in cold water, cook un- 
til tender. Pour off water, core them, cut in small pieces 
(do not chop them), a«dd sugar, ginger and lemon juice. 
Cook slowly 2 hours. Put in small jars and seal. 

Spiced Rhubarb. 

Wash and cut 2^ pounds rhubarb in small pieces; add 
1 cup vinegar, 2 pounds of sugar, and 1 tablespoon each 
of cinnamon and cloves. Put in a preserving kettle and 
boil steadily for 4 hour. Put in jelly glasses, covering 
tops with paraffin. 

Heavenly Hash. 

Five pounds chopped apples, without peeling. 5 pounds 
sugar, 1 pound raisins, seeded and chopped, 4 oranges, 
chop the peelings and squeeze juice over sugar. Cook 
all together slowly until clear. 

112 



FRUIT. 

.bruit Sausage. 

Grind in food chopper one pound of figs and one-hall 
pound of dates, -J pound seedless raisins. Add one cup- 
ful of English walnuts chopped. Knead on hoard. 
Shape the thickness of a sausage, wrap in oiled paper, 
and tie. 

Pumpkin Marmalade. 

Seven pounds pumpkin, cut in small piece.-. 5 pounds 
white sugar, juice of 3 lemon.-. Mix all together and let 
stand over night. In the morning cook until proper con- 
sistency. 

Tomato and Apple Butter. 

Pare 1 peck of ripe tomatoes, 1 peck ripe apples, cook 
each separately and run through a sieve. To every howl 
of tomato add 3 teaspoons cinnamon, stir thoroughly, and 
cook same as apple butter. 

Plum Conserve. 

To G pounds blue plums, halve and quartered, after 
the pits are removed, add 4 pounds granulated sugar. 2 
pounds seeded raisins, chopped hue, \ pound English wal- 
nuts, chopped fine, the parboiled skin of 4 oranges and 
the juice of one. Chop the orange skin after boiling. 
Boil 20 minutes and then seal. 

Prune Jelly. 

Stew one pound of prunes tender, add one-half cupful 
sugar, and cook ten minutes. Drain oft" the syrup, stone 
pmnes, and pass them through sieve. Return syrup to 
fire and boil up once. Stir into it 2 tablespoons of 
gelatin dissolved in a little cold water; add prunes and 
the juice of a lemon. Stir up well, pour into a mold to 
congeal. Serve with whipped cream. 

113 



FRUIT. 
Golden Marmalade. 

Seven pounds pumpkin. 5 pounds sugar. 5 cents' 
worth ginger root, ; } - lemons. Cut fruit and lemons the 
same as for orange marmalade. Let stand over night. 
in the morning cook until clear and the proper con- 
sistency. 

Boiled Apples. 

Make a thin syrup with 1 cup of sugar, % cup of water. 
Have ready 6 apples, cored, but not peeled. Put into 
syrup and boil until soft. 



114 



FROZEN DAINTIES 



"Such dainties to men. their health it might hurt. 
It's like sending them ruffles when wanting a shirt." 



Ice Cream. 



Two quarts cream, 1 quart milk, whites 3 eggs, 2 tea- 
spoons flavoring. Mix cream, milk and sugar, add flavor- 
ing and place in freezer can. Beat the whites of eggs to 
a stiff froth and add just before freezing. Will make 1 
gallon. 

Ice Cream (Cooked). 

Mix 1| quart milk, H quart cream, 3 eggs, h cup flour, 
2 cups sugar, f tablespoon each lemon and vanilla. Heat 
the milk in a double boiler, and when nearly boiling add 
the beaten yolks, the sugar and flour. Let stand until 
cold. When ready to freeze add the cream, beaten whites 
of eggs and flavoring. 

Ice Cream. 

One quart sweet cream, 1^ quart new milk, whites of 4 
eggs, beaten stiff, yolks of 2, l| cup sugar flavor to taste. 
Makes a gallon. 

Bavarian Cream. 

One quart of strawberries, 1 cup of sugar. Put the 
sugar in a dish and mash the strawberries through a 
sieve over it, add to this I cup of water and stir until dis- 
solved. Put the strawberries and sugar in a pan sur- 
rounded by ice. Soak 1 ounce of gelatine in a little cold 
water for ^ hour, as soon as dissolved mix it with the 
strawberries and sugar and stir until it begins to stiffen, 
then add 1 pint whipped cream and stir until the spoon 
leaves its mark, then turn into pan or mold and put into 
ice box. When wanted to turn out put warm cloth 
around the dish. 

115 



FROZEN DAINTIES. 

Chocolate Frozen Pudding. 

One cup sugar stirred well with yolks of 5 eggs; 1 
cake grated sweet chocolate, 1 pint whipped cream. Put 
in molds, pack in ice and salt for 4 hours. 

Plain Vanilla Ice Cream. 

Mix 2<| quarts cream, 1 quart new milk, 3 scant cups 
sugar, 4 teaspoons vanilla. Put -j the cream in double 
boiler and bring to scalding point, add sugar ; when cold 
add other ingredients' and freeze. Makes 1 gallon. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 
Wash and hull 2 quart boxes strawberries, sprinkle 
with 2 cups sugar, cover, and let stand 2 hours. Mash 
and squeeze through cheesecloth ; then add a few grains 
salt. Freeze 3 pints thin cream or rich Jersey milk to a 
mush, then add gradually the fruit juice and continue the 
freezing. In freezing, use 3 parts finely crushed ice to 
1 part rock salt to insure a smooth, fine-grained cream. 

Maple Mousse. 
Heat 1 cup maple syrup very hot. beat thoroughly yolks 
of 6 eggs, and pour hot syrup over them, stirring all the 
while. Whip 1 pint of cream stiff and when custard is 
cool add to cream. Pack same as ice cream and let stand 
several hours, stirring occasionally. 

Orange Sherbet. 

Mix 1 i pint sugar, 3 pints water ; boil 20 minutes ; when 
cool add the juice of 10 oranges and 2 lemons, 1 table- 
spoon of gelatine, dissolved ; freeze. 

Orange Sherbet. 

Juice of 5 oranges and 1 lemon, 1 quart of water and 1 
teaspoon good gelatine: soak the gelatine in a little of 
the water, having it boiling hot ; boil the sugar and water 
together for 25 minutes; let cool and mix with juice, after 
straining, add gelatine and freeze. 

11G 



FROZEN DAINTIES. 
Chocolate Mousse. 

Put 1 pint of milk in a double boiler to scald. Melt 3 
ounces Baker's chocolate, add it to the milk, stir until 
smooth. Add 7 ounces sugar and 1 tablespoon of vanilla, 
stir until sugar is dissolved. Freeze the same as ice 
cream, then stir in 1 pint of cream, whipped, repack and 
stand aside for 2 hours. 

Raspberry Ice. 

Make syrup of 2 cups of water, v of a cup of sugar, add 
1 cup fresh raspberry juice and 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 
Makes 1 quart. 

Milk Sherbet. 

i 
One quart new milk, 2 cups sugar, juice of 3 lemons. 
Put milk and sugar in freezer and chill, strain juice and 
add to milk and sugar. Freeze. 

Canton Sherbet. 

Cut I pound Canton ginger in small pieces, add 4 cups 
water, 1 clip sugar; boil 15 minutes. Add | cup each of 
lemon and orange juice. Cool, strain and freeze. 

Lemon Water Ice. 

Take 2 lemons and rasp them on sugar, the juice of 6 
lemons, the juice of 1 orange, 1 pint of clarified sugar and 
J pint of water; mix all together; strain through a hair 
sieve and freeze. 

i 

Lemon Water Ice. 

Chip the yellow rind from 2 lemons and 1 orange. Boil 
these together with lj pound granulated sugar for 5 
minutes, strain. When cold add strained juice of -i lem- 
ons and 1 orange, freeze. 

117 



FROZEN DAINTIES. 

Pineapple Sherbet. 

Afix If quart water, 1 pint sugar, 1 can grated pine- 
apple, 3 lemons, whites of 3 eggs, well beaten. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Three cups milk, 3 cups cream, If cup sugar, juice of 3 
lemons, beaten whites of 1 or 2 eggs. Add sugar to milk 
and cream and partly freeze, then add the juice of the 
lemons and whites of the eggs, freeze and let stand 1 
hour. 

Red Raspberry Sherbet Made of Jam. 

Two cups of jam, 1 cup of sugar, 4 cups water, juice of 
2 lemons. Boil sugar and water until dissolved, then 
pour over raspberries and lemon juice, strain through fine 
cloth. When nearly frozen stir into sherbet the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. 

Raspberry or Strawberry Sherbet. 

One pint of berry juice, 1 pint of sugar, 1 pint of water, 
juice of 2 lemons. 1 tablespoon of gelatine. Freeze. 

Cranberry Sherbet. 

Boil 1 quart of cranberries in 1 pint of water for 5 or 
6 minutes. Strain through cheese cloth. Add 1 pint 
sugar. Stir and boil until the sugar is dissolved. When 
cold add the juice of 2 lemons and freeze. 

Frozen Custard. 
Beat yolks of 6 eggs, 1 f cup sugar, If quart milk. 1 tea- 
spoon corn starch. Cook in double boiler. When cool, 
add whites of the eggs, well beaten. Flavor with vanilla 
and freeze. 

Frozen Pudding. 

One quart milk or cream, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs. Cook 
and cool, flavor with 1 \ teaspoon each of vanilla and 
almond. Add { pound of tigs, J pound English walnuts, 
all chopped fine, add to the sugar and freeze. 

118 



BEVERAGES 



"They never taste, who always drink." 



Hot Chocolate. 



Two squares Baker's chocolate, 1 scant teacup granu- 
lated sugar, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon cold water, dis- 
solve in double boiler, then add 1 pint boiling water, 1 
pint hot milk, 1 scant teaspoon cornstarch which has been 
dissolved in cold water. Let come to a boil. 

Unfermented Grape Juice. 

Ten pounds grapes, 1 cup water, 2 pounds sugar. Put 
grapes in granite pan, heat until pulp and stones separate, 
strain through jelly bag; add sugar; heat to boiling; bot- 
tle. This will make 2 quarts. When served, dilute i 
with water. 

Fruit Punch. 

Make a syrup by boiling 1 cup of water and 2 cups of 
sugar 10 minutes, add 1 cup tea in fusion, 2 cups straw- 
berry syrup, and the juice of 5 lemons, the juice of 5 
oranges and 1 can grated pineapple. Let stand 30 min- 
utes, strain, and add ice water to make H gallon of 
liquid. Add 1 cup maraschino cherries. 

Ambrosia. 

One quart lemon juice, 1 pint orange juice, 1 pineapple 
grated or 1 pint can of same ; add sugar and water to 
taste. This is a fine drink. 

Lemonade. 

Three lemons to a pint of water makes a strong lemon- 
ade ; sweeten to your taste. 

119 



BEVERAGES. 



Mint Lemonade. 



The juice of 5 lemons, H cup sugar, 6 stocks of bruised 
mint, 1 quart water and 1 quart ginger ale. 

Raspberry Shrub. 

Pour over ten quarts of raspberries 1| pint of vinegar, 
and let stand over night ; scald berries till soft ; squeeze 
well; to a pint of juice add 1 pound of sugar and boil L5 
minutes ; bottle. 

Currant Shrub. 

Stem a quantity of red currants, place in a stone jar, 
set in a pot of hot water and let cook till juice is well 
extracted. Drain in flannel bag; for every pint of juice 
allow a pound of granulated sugar and boil for 5 minutes. 
Skim, stir until cold and bottle, sealing well with wax. 
Serve 2 tablespoons in glass of water. 



120 



CANDY 



"With thy sweets, comfort his ravenous sense." 



For French Creams. 

Whites of 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons water, XXX powdered 
confectioner's sugar sufficient to mold ; flavor with vanilla. 

For Chocolate. — Grate Baker's chocolate, set on warm 
stove to melt (not boil). Make ball, let stand 30 minutes. 
Dip one at a time in chocolate. For different kinds, use 
different fruits and nuts. Drop on oiled paper. 

For Orange Cream. — Use 3 tablespoons juice instead of 
water, and 1 grated rind. For pink use a few drops of 
carmine or use Price's fruit flavoring. 

For Cocoanut Creams. — Mix with grated cocoanut and 
roll in same. 

For Layer Creams. — Divide in 3 parts, color 1 pink, 
1 chocolate, and leave 1 white. Roll in sheets \ of an 
inch thick, lay together and cut in squares. 

Directions for Mixing. — Beat eggs light, adding water 
gradually ; add sugar, beating well, then knead till smooth 
and light. 

Cream Candy (To Pull). 

Three cups sugar, h cup water, -J- cup vinegar, stir well, 
then put on to cook, but do not stir. Cook till it cracks 
in cold water. Pour on buttered marble, flavor while 
pulling. 

Fudges. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
butter; boil this mixture for about five minutes, then 
put in two squares of Baker's chocolate ; then boil for 
about 15 minutes; remove from the fire, set in cold water, 
stir until creamed enough to pour ; flavor to taste. 

121 



CANDY. 

Molasses Candy. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1 coffee cup New Orleans 
molasses, ^ cup cold water, 1 tablespoon of butter ; boil 
until when turned in cold water it will harden in a ropy 
mass ; remove from fire and add 1 teaspoon saleratus 
and 1 tablespoon of lemon extract ; stir thoroughly and 
turn into pans to cool; pull vigorously over a hook or 
nail. 

Molasses Candy. 

One quart molasses, a cup of sugar, a tablespoon of 
vinegar, a small lump of butter; boil until it hardens 
when dropped in cold water. Have ready some buttered 
pans, with or without nuts, according to taste. Pour 
candy into pans and allow to harden. When cool enough 
to handle, wash your hands in water as hot as can be 
borne, then rinse in cold water. This will prevent candy 
from sticking to hands while pulling. 

White Fudge. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
butter; boil 20 minutes. Remove from fire, flavor, add 
1 cup nut meats and beat until creamed enough to pour. 

Double Fudge. 

Two cups granulated sugar, \ cup sweet cream, 2 
squares Baker's chocolate, 1 teaspoon butter, boil until 
it forms a soft ball in cold water, beat until creamy, pour 
into a deep buttered tin. Then cook the following: Two 
cups brown sugar, \ cup sweet cream, 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, boil in same manner and when beaten creamy add 
1 cup nut meats and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Pour this on 
the first rule and when cool cut into squares. 

Cream Candy. 

Use the above rule without the vinegar and it will 
cream sooner. 

122 



CANDY. 

Burnt Fudge. 

Three cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk. Burn ^ cup 
sugar, leave rest of sugar and milk boiling, then pour in 
the burned sugar and boil about 5 minutes longer. Set 
back to cool, then beat until creamy. Pour in buttered 
tins. A cup of nuts may be added if desired. 

Divinity. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1 cup syrup. 2 squares 
Baker's chocolate, small piece of butter, nuts ; cook like 
fudge and beat until cool. 

French Cream Candy. 

Take 3 cups granulated sugar, water enough to mois- 
ten ; add ^ teaspoon pure cream of tartar ; let it boil until 
syrup can be picked up from spoon held in cold water ; 
set in bowls to cool ; when finger can be held in syrup, 
flavor and stir until hard, then knead until creamy. 
Mould into required shapes. If coloring is desired, add 
with flavoring. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, ^ cup butter, 2 
squares chocolate, melt slowly, stirring until boiling point 
is reached. Boil until it gums when dropped in cold 
water. Pour in buttered tins and when nearly cool mark 
off in squares. 

Pinoche. 

Three cups light brown sugar, 1 cup thin cream ; when 
it boils add pinch of salt and walnut of butter. Boil till 
it forms a soft ball in cold water, add nut meats, flavor 
with vanilla. Beat till creamy, turn out and cool. Stir 
while cooking. 

123 



CANDY. 

Nougat. 

Three cups granulated sugar, \ cup water; 1 cup Karo 
Corn Syrup. Boil this till it forms a soft ball in water, 
take from fire and beat until it starts to cream, then add 
to it the beaten whites of two eggs, 1 cup nut meats and 
beat until stiff enough to pour. 

Baked Potato Candy. 

Bake 1 large potato as for table. When baked remove 
skin and mash fine ; mix in XXXX sugar till enough to 
mold nicely. Add chopped nuts, melted chocolate or 
cocoanut. Mold in a roll and cut as used. 

Fig Bars. 

Three cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, small piece 
of butter. Do not boil quite as hard as for fudge. Beat 
and stir in 1 pound chopped figs. Pour on buttered dish 
and bar before thoroughly cold. 

Chocolate Candy. 

One cup sugar, \ cup molasses, \ cup milk, \ cup 
butter, \ cake chocolate. Boil 20 minutes. Pour in but- 
tered pan to cool. Mark in squares. 

Hickory Nut Macaroons. 

One cup chopped hickory nuts, whites of 2 eggs and 
yolk of 1, 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons flour. Drop on 
buttered paper and brown in quick oven. 

Peanut Brittle. 

Shell 10 cents worth of peanuts, remove skins, spread 
in a buttered pan. Put 2 cups granulated sugar in an 
iron vessel and melt slowly, stirring constantly to keep 
from burning. When all melted, remove from fire and 
pour over the peanuts. 

124 



CANDY. 

Candied Nuts. 

One cup granulated sugar, ^ cup water, boil until crisp 
'>vhcn dropped in water, flavor with vanilla. Put nuts 
on a long pin and dip into candy. Put on butttered 
paper to harden. Nut meats may also be dipped in 
sweetened Baker's chocolate and let harden. 

Orange Straws. 

Cut orange peel into strips with scissors, put in cold 
water and boil 20 minutes, change water and repeat 
boiling 3 times. To 1 cup orange strips, 1 cup sugar, 
water to cover, boil till it hairs, roll in granulated sugar, 
place on platter till dry. 

Caramel Candy. 

One cup of molasses, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 tablespoon 
butter, 2 tablespoons flour, § cup sweet milk, ^ cup grated 
chocolate; boil until it hardens in water; flavor and pour 
in buttered tins. 

Butter Scotch. 

Two cups sugar, i cup water, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 
^ teaspoon cream of tartar, boil 10 minutes, add large 
tablespoon of butter, boil until it is brittle when dropped 
in cold water; pour on plates well buttered. 

Butter Scotch. 

One cup table syrup. 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, pinch 
of soda. Boil until it just hardens in cold water, flavor 
with vanilla. Pour in thin sheets to cool. 

Three Minute Butter Scotch. 

Use f cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon of water, butter the 
size of walnut, ^ a tablespoon of vinegar. Boil until 
brittle ; pour on buttered plates. 

125 



CANDY. 

j 

Walnut Molasses Bars. 

Pour \ cup water over \ cup butter, add \ cup brown 
sugar and \ cup molasses mixed with 1 teaspoon soda ; 3 
cups flour ; 1 teaspoon salt, \ teaspoon ginger, \ teaspoon 
nutmeg, 1 cup chopped walnuts. Chill thoroughly, roll \ 
inch thick, cut in strips 3| inches long. Sprinkle with 
nut meats and bake 10 minutes. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One-fourth pound of unsweetened chocolate, grated, 
\ cup milk, 1 pound brown sugar, 2 tablespoons molasses, 
2 rounded tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Heat 
slowly, stirring until chocolate and sugar are dissolved, 
then boil without stirring until a few drops will harden 
quickly in cold water. Pour into greased pans and mark. 

Pinoche. 

One cup granulated sugar; put in an iron saucepan 
and stir over fire until it melts and slightly burns. 
(Watch carefully as it scorches easily.) Then add 1 
cup milk, level tablespoon butter, 2 cups maple sugar. 
Boil until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold 
water. Add \ pint English walnuts or pecan nuts and 
stir until mixture begins to thicken. Turn quickly into 
buttered pans and set aside to cool. 

Turkish Delight. 

Bring to a boil 3 cups sugar and 1 cup of water ; add 
1 box gelatine softened in § cup cold water. Boil this 
mixture for 25 minutes, then add grated rind and juice 
of 1 lemon and 1 orange, boil for 1 minute and turn into 
wet pans to cool (preferably over night), cut into squares 
and roll into equal parts of corn starch and powdered 
sugar. Delicious with nuts added after it is cooked. 

126 



CANDY. 

Cocoanut Kisses. 

Mix 1 pound cocoanut, \ pound powdered sugar and 
the white of an egg. Mold into balls, put on buttered 
tins and brown in quick oven. Flavor with vanilla. 

Cream Peppermints. 

Two cups granulated sugar. 1 cup water, boil until it 
hairs ; remove from fire and with an egg, whip until white 
and creamy, flavor with | teaspoon essence of pepper- 
mint and drop in wafers on parafhne paper. 

Peppermint Drops. 

Place over the fire in a granite saucepan 1 large cup 
granulated sugar and 4 tablespoons of hot water. When 
the mixture comes to a boil cook 3 minutes. Meanwhile 
have ready -i tablespoons confectioner's sugar mixed 
with a few drops of peppermint. Turn this into the boil- 
ing syrup and stir quickly. Take from the fire, set the 
pan in a larger one of cold Avater, and with a spoon drop 
the hot liquid in spots about the size of a nickel on oiled 
paper or marble. Do not place the lozenges so close 
together that they will run into each other or they will 
not be a good shape. 

Taffy. 

Two cups granulated sugar, 1 cup vinegar, 1 table- 
spoon butter. Boil until crackles when dropped in water. 

Cocoanut Creams. 

Three cups of white sugar, scant \ cup of water, h 
teaspoon of cream tartar; boil ten minutes, then add 1 
cup of cocoanut, beat well together, and drop on white 
paper by the spoonful. 



127 



81 191:1 



