ie/*2 

















4 




m^ 



4»^ 









i^^> 









>1^* 



.\i 




Class \ X ^ 3 ? 



«OPyRlGIIT DEPOSIT. 




MOLLIE GRISWOLD CHRISTIAN 



250 

MEATLESS MENUS 
AND RECIPES 



TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF PEOPLE 

UNDER THE VARYING CONDITIONS 

OF AGE, CLIMATE AND WORK 



Written and Published by EUGENE CHRISTIAN 

and MOLLIE GRISWOLD CHRISTIAN 

43 SEVENTH AVENUE, BROOKLYN 



-M 



NEW YORK 
1910 



iVt<> 



Copyright, 1910 

BY 

Eugene Christian 
MoLLiE Griswold Christian 



CCI.A278754 . 



Table of Contents 

The Object of this Book 17 

Beginning the Natural Diet 18 

Over-eating 23 

Simplicity 26 

Temperature of Foods 28 

Canned Food 30 

Refrigerator and Kitchen Hygiene ^^ 

Water Drinking 35 

Care of the Teeth S7 

Care of the Hair 39 

Feminine Beauty 40 

Feminine Freedom 43 

Feeding the Pregnant and Xursing Mother 47 

Infant Mortality in New York City 52 

Infant Feeding and General Instructions about the 

Health and Care of Children 56 

Food for School Children 65 

Suggestions for the Manual Laborer 67 

Balanced Menus, 

For the Manual Laborer, Spring and Summer. . 69 

For the Manual Laborer, Fall and \\'inter. ... 70 
7 



Suggestions for the Sedentary Worker 71 

Balanced Menus. 

For the Sedentary Worker, Spring and Summer jt. 
For the Sedentary Worker, Fall and Winter. . . 73 

The Family Scrap Book 74 

Soups 85 

Soups, Uncooked 85 

Cereal Soup 85 

Cream of Corn 86 

Soups, Cooked 86 

Cream of Asparagus, Bean, Pea or Lentil .... 88 

Cream of Celery 88 

Cream of Corn 87 

Cream of Corn and Tomato 87 

Cream of Rice or Potato 88 

Cream of Tomato 87 

Pea, Bean or Lentil (Dried) 89 

Dairy Products and Preparations 90 

Sweet Butter 90 

Clabber or Sour Milk 91 

Milk Custard 90 

Sour Milk Cure 90 

Eggs, Their Importance and Place in the Diet 92 

Eggs, Milk 93 

Egg Float 93 

Cream Eggs 94 

Egg Milk Shake 93 

8 



Grain and Grain Products 95 

To Prepare Uncooked 97 

To Prepare Cooked 97 

Flaked Grains 99 

To Serve Dry 99 

As a Porridge 99 

Christian's Laxative Cereal Flakes 99 

Vieno Breakfast 100 

Why I Have Selected O. B. Gilman's De Luxe 

Crackers 100 

Bread loi 

Peanut Butter 102 

Sandwiches, Their Uses and Abuses 103 

Anchovy and Lettuce Sandwiches 105 

Sweet Apple Sandwiches 106 

Apple Sandwiches 106 

Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 104 

Cottage Cheese Sandwiches 104 

Cream Cheese, Date and Nut Sandwiches 104 

Cucumber Sandwiches 104 

Herring or Anchovy Sandwiches 105 

Lettuce Sandwiches 106 

Maple Cream Sandwiches 105 

Mexican Sandwiches 105 

Nasturtium Sandwiches 104 

Nut and Ripe Olive Sandwiches 106 

Raisin Sandwiches 106 

Cream Cheese 107 

9 



Nuts io8 

Olive Oil 1 10 

Salad Dressing iii 

Hygeia Salad Dressing 112 

Mayonnaise Salad Dressing 112 

The Christian Salad Dressing iii 

Whipped Cream 112 

Whip Cream Substitute 112 

Olives as Food 113 

Salads 115 

Apple, Celery and Cress Salad 122 

Alligator Pear Salad 118 

Asparagus and Green Pepper Salad 119 

Banana Nut Salad 123 

Banana and Pineapple Salad 116 

Cabbage Salad 123 

Celery, Cabbage 115 

Celery and Endive 122 

Celery, Nut and Apple Salad 116 

Celery, Cress and Nut Salad 121 

Cherry and Malaga Grape Salad 121 

Cheese Salad 118 

Combination Vegetable Salad 120 

Combination Salad 117 

Cream Cheese-Eggs 116 

Cream Cheese and Tomato Salad 117 

Cress and Onion Salad 122 

Cucumber and Green Pepper Salad 122 

10 



Salads (Continued). 

Cucumber and Onion Salad 122 

Cheese Salad 123 

Cream Cheese and Nuts 118 

Gelatine Fruit Salad 119 

Golden Salad 120 

Grape Fruit and Banana Salad 121 

Lettuce and Nasturtium Salad 119 

Malaga Grape Salad 118 

Mexican Salad 117 

Peanut Butter Dressing 123 

Pepper and Tomato Salad 122 

Pear and Cheese Salad 117 

Fruit and Nut Salad 121 

Stuffed Bananas 119 

Stuffed Tomatoes 121 

Stuffed Green Peppers 120 

Stuffed Celery 120 

Spanish Salad 120 

Stuffed Apple Salad 116 

Stuffed Cucumber 115 

Tomato and Cheese Salad 123 

Tomato and Spinach Salad 118 

Tomatoes 124 

Succulent Vegetables 125 

Preparation of Fresh Green Corn 128 

Preparation of Fresh Green Peas 130 

The Banana as a Food 131 

11 



Melons, Their Value as Food 132 

The Use of Berries 133 

Fruits, Their Preparation and Use 134 

Apples — Olive Oil 135 

Apple Float 136 

Ambrosia 136 

Bananas 136 

Fruit and Nut Medley 135 

How to Serve Pineapple 136 

Persimmons 136 

Snow Fruit 135 

Dehydrated or Evaporated Fruits 137 

Cheese — Raisins 139 

Date Butter 138 

Fig Marmalade 137 

Stuffed Dates 137 

Soaked Prunes 138 

Soaked Figs 139 

Steamed Figs 139 

Desserts 140 

Banana Charlotte Russe 143 

Chocolate Dainties 141 

Fruit Cake 140 

Honey Nut 141 

Marshmallow Pudding 140 

Milanaise Souffle 142 

Orange Baskets 141 

Orange Cream Pudding 142 

12 



Desserts (Continued). 

Raspberry Meringue Pudding 142 

Vieno Pudding 140 

A Word About Gelatine 144 

Jellies, Creams and Mousses 146 

Apple Jelly 147 

Banana Jelly 147 

Cherry Jelly 146 

Fruit Jelly 148 

Jelly Table Decorations 147 

Melon Jelly 146 

Pineapple Jelly 146 

Apricot Cream 1 50 

Bavarian Cream 149 

Cream Strawberries 148 

Orange Cups 148 

Cocoanut Mousse 149 

Maple Mousse 150 

Strawberry Mousse 149 

Whips and Sauces 151 

Apple, Nut Cream 153 

Banana Cream 154 

Brandy Sauce 1 52 

Blackberry Cream 151 

Date and Apple Sauce 153 

Grape Whip 152 

Hard Sauce 153 

Iced Fruit 151 

13 



Whips and Sauces (Continued). 

Peach Foam 151 

Prune Whip 154 

Raspberry Cream 151 

Strawberry Whip 152 

Strawberry Foam 153 

Ice Cream, Sherbets and Ices 155 

Egg Ice Cream 156 

Maple Ice Cream 156 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 156 

Pineapple Sherbet 157 

Peach Sherbet 157 

Strawberry Sherbet 158 

Raspberry Ice 157 

Strawberry Ice 157 

Drinks, Their Purpose and Place in the Economy of 

Nature 1 59 

Egg Lemonade 161 

Grape Punch 160 

Grated Pears , 161 

Limeade 160 

Mint and Currant Julep 161 

Mint Cups 161 

Orangeade 160 

Pineapple Punch 160 

Raspberry Nectar 160 

Balanced Menus 162 

Early Spring Menu 165 

14 



Balanced Menus (Continued). 

Late Spring Menu i66 

Early Summer Menu 167 

Late Summer Menu 168 

Early Fall Menu 169 

Late Fall Menu 170 

Early Winter Menu 171 

Late Winter Menu 172 

Uncooked Banquet Menus 

Spring Banquet Menu 173 

Summer Banquet Menu 174 

Autumn Banquet Menu 175 

V/inter Banquet Menu 176 

Mrs. Christian's Vieno Baby Food 177 

Directions for Preparing Vieno Baby Food 179 

Mrs. Christian's Vieno Food for Adults 180 



The Object of This Book 

/f%fK Y WORK in the field of natural and curative 
^^^1 feeding has convinced me that there is an uni- 
versal demand for a practical family book on 
the subject of natural feeding. 

The primary object of this work, therefore, is first, 
to educate the housewife and mother in the selection 
and preparation of food that will give the highest de- 
gree of efficiency, at all seasons of the year, in the form 
of energy and health; second, to secure these results 
with the greatest economy and the least amount of 
labor. 

When the housewife or mother seeks information 
designed to change, improve and rationalize the fam- 
ily table, she is apt to read into a maze of tables, terms 
and technical phrases, with which she is wholly un- 
familiar and, with the duties of the home pressing 
upon her, she has no time to study and learn. 

This book is the most concrete form in which we can 
reply to the many thousand inquiries that have come 
to us from mothers and housewives from all over the 
land during the past few years in regard to naturaliz- 
ing and making more healthful the family bill of fare. 

17 



Beginning the Natural Diet 

3T IS only human to follow custom. We break 
away from the pathway of precedent now and 
then because we are compelled to ; because some- 
thing happens that makes us think ; because our life, lib- 
erty or happiness is thrown into jeopardy and it be- 
comes necessary to do something unusual to make 
things right. 

Nearly every housewife feels that she is held per- 
sonally responsible for the table. She has inherited 
the idea that it takes a large number of things to con- 
stitute a good meal. She has also inherited the con- 
viction that meat is the substantial and principal thing, 
and that everything else is merely prepared to go with 
and make meat taste better. 

She has become convinced that, next to meat, cereals 
and cereal products occupy the most important place in 
the dietary. 

With the exception of a few candy caramel and 
pink tea recipes the average woman goes through life 
selecting and preparing food according to precedent 
and custom. 

It is only when some member of the family is 
stricken with disease and a life i? in jeopardy and the 

18 



trouble can be directly traced to the food that any 
thought is given to this great question. 

A very limited amount of time devoted to the study 
of the chemistry of food would reveal the fact to any 
intelligent person that meat is wholly unnecessary, 
that it contains absolutely nothing that cannot be sup- 
plied from other things, but that it does contain much 
poison, that other things do not contain, which is re- 
sponsible for a great deal of physical trouble. This 
study would convince the housewife and mother that 
every chemical element of which the body is com- 
posed can be supplied in their best form from the 
vegetable world. A few exceptions, however, may be 
made now and then by the use of such animal prod- 
ucts as milk, eggs, fish and the bloodless tribe of shell 
fish. 

While it is possible to live and enjoy perfect health 
without taking the life of any living thing, yet, rather 
than battle against the tyranny of appetite, it is some- 
times better for the beginner to partake now and then 
of the animal products above named. 

In beginning the natural diet a very sharp distinction 
should be drawn between appetite and hunger. Appe- 
tite is the craving for something that has been forced 
upon the body against its demands ; having accepted 
it, however, the penalty is tyranny of appetite and 
slavery of the body. 

Hurried, nervous eating, overeating and exhibition 
of temper when meals are late are all expressions of 

19 



appetite similar to, and often as serious as coffee, 
cocaine or tobacco slavery. Most of these habits can 
be controlled and the causes removed by gradually 
normalizing and naturalizing the diet. 

In adopting the natural diet the change should be 
made gradually, increasing the number of uncooked 
while decreasing the cooked articles at the same 
ratio. If the family has been in the habit of using 
meat every day, it might be omitted twice or three 
times a week and some article rich in proteids served 
as a substitute. It will be remembered that the only 
nutritive elements in meat are fats and proteids. 

These elements can be supplied by a great variety 
of delicious foods, many of which can be taken in 
their natural state. 

The staple and most available fat foods are butter, 
cream, olive oil and nuts. 

The most available proteid foods are milk, eggs, 
nuts and all legumes, whole wheat and rye. 

It is a matter of common knowledge no longer dis- 
puted by scientists that meat is not only an unnecessary 
article of food, but in a great many cases actually 
harmful, and that it is the most expensive form in 
which proteids and fats can be secured. 

It is impossible to take any kind of flesh food with- 
out partaking of the uric acid that is residual in the 
body of the animal and also the toxic poisons that 
were in process of elimination when arrested by death. 

The adoption of a natural diet, therefore, has a 
20 



tendency toward the abolition of meat, condiments, pas- 
tries, tea, coffee, tobacco and all sedative and narcotic 
stimulants. 

It is said by those who have adopted a diet of 
natural foods that they did not have to quit tea, coffee, 
tobacco, meat, etc., but that these things quit them. 

All uncooked articles should be served very daintily, 
for the very obvious reason that food in its natural 
state contains all its nutrition and therefore the quan- 
tity one can partake of is reduced perhaps 50 per 
cent. 

The advantages and virtues of the natural diet might 
be summed up as follows : 

First, it is less expensive. 

Second, it abolishes the use of meat, and with it 
abolishes the most prolific cause of uric acid and 
toxic poisoning. 

Third, it abolishes condiments and pastries, two of 
the most potent factors in stomach and intestinal 
trouble. 

Fourth, it abolishes the habit of over-eating, which 
is the primary cause of a vast amount of digestive 
trouble. 

Fifth, it trains one in the habit of thorough masti- 
cation. When the cell structure of all vegetable foods 
has been completely torn down and made soft by 
grinding, mushing up and cooking, the primary reason 
for mastication, which is thorough pulverization, has 
been disposed of ; therefore the habit of bolting 

21 



food, swallowing it without the necessary insalivation, 
has become a fixed habit with most civilized people. 
This is one of the principal causes of stomach and 
intestinal trouble. 

The natural diet, or at least a sufficient quantity of 
nstural foods taken with every meal, will compel 
enough time devoted to mastication to properly insali- 
vate the whole and therefore insure good or fair diges- 
tion. Natural food is the natural mother of Fletcher- 
ism. 



9t 



Over-Eating 



>gf^VERY pennyweight of food taken into the body 
Vl^ that it cannot use in the form of heat and energy 
must be thrown off through the excretory chan- 
nels at the expense of energy. If the excess, however, 
is digested it is stored up in the form of excess fat 
or converted into toxic or carbondioxide poisons which 
manifest themselves in various abnormal conditions we 
call disease. 

The great majority of colds start at the dinner table. 
All colds come from two causes, viz., exposure and 
over-eating. When one is exposed to a draft or vio- 
lent cold the pores of the skin through which body 
poisons are continually passing off close, and these 
poisons are then taken up by the circulation and carried 
to the lungs for oxidation — that is, to be burned with 
oxygen we breathe. 

As a rule the lungs are always pressed to their fullest 
capacity to oxidize the normal amount of body poi- 
sons brought to them by the circulation, hence they 
cannot take care of the excess and Nature causes sup- 
puration in order that these poisons may be cast out 
of the body in another way. 

When one over-eats, the food matter that cannot be 
23 



used and is not stored up in the form of fat is con- 
verted by the body into poisons or waste matter in 
exactly the same way as in the case of exposure, and 
these poisons are carried to the lungs by the circula- 
tion and disposed of by the body in the same identical 
way. 

Coming into New York a few days ago from a 
neighboring city I occupied a seat on a sleeping car 
with a gentleman whom I took to be an up-to-date 
business man. He took me for a minister or a poli- 
tician. I was right but he was wrong. However, we 
became acquainted. He ventured the assertion that 
money was a little "panicky," but his business would 
boom very soon. Being a little curious to know what 
business he was in and wishing to use a little refine- 
ment in finding out, I began around the corner by ask- 
ing him what times of the year his business was best, 
thinking that he would reveal his vocation in the mean- 
time, but he didn't ; he merely answered, "Our business 
is very good in mid-summer and excellent just after 
Thanksgiving, but we are literally snowed under with 
orders just after Christmas and New Year." Having 
had a pretty wide business experience and training, I 
hurriedly reviewed everything that supplied human 
want, and for the life of me I couldn't think of any 
business that could employ a drummer as clever as my 
companion seemed to be that would be good during 
a hot summer and splendid just after Thanksgiving 
and booming just after Christmas and New Year. 

24 



My friend enjoyed my perplexity with a display of 
cruelty for which he ought to have been arrested. I 
could stand it no longer, but bluntly asked, "What is 
your business^' "The coffin business," answered the 
shrewd business man. "Oh," I said, and I guess I 
looked it. "Grand Central Station, all out!" yelled the 
trainman. Tbis is a true story. 



26 



Simplicity 







NE of the most conspicuous errors in the mod- 
ern diet is complicated dishes and too many 
things served at the same meal. 

Many articles of natural food contain from two to 
six different chemical elements. A properly selected 
meal therefore might be composed of three or four 
things and contain all the elements of nourishment the 
body would require. 

The kitchen has been the domain of woman for 
many thousand years ; what ambition she possessed 
had no other way of manifesting itself except to excell 
in the preparation of food. This has led her into 
complications and has fixed the standard of a good 
meal by the number of things composing it. The mod- 
ern chef is merely the lineal descendant of our grand- 
mothers, who has inherited the disposition to fix up 
and mix up food into endless combinations, utterly re- 
gardless of the chemical effect one article may have 
upon another. 

Two of the most serious errors of the modern diet 
are inharmonious combinations of food served at the 
same meal and over-eating. Complicated dishes and 
too great a variety of food supply the causes for both 
these mistakes. 

26 



A careful study of the laws governing food chemis- 
try lias led modern scientists and all others who have 
made a careful study of the food question back toward 
a simple diet, not only for the purpose of correcting 
the evils above referred to, but experience has shown 
that a meal composed of a few simple, natural and 
nutritious articles costs less money, much less labor to 
prepare, and appeals to and satisfies the highest sense 
of taste and enjoyment. 

When the habit of subsisting upon a few natural 
articles of food has been acquired, it sharpens natural 
hunger and we soon become able to select our food 
from instinct as it were, the hunger calling only for 
the articles the body needs. This is the ideal thing to 
be attained in the art of correct eating, and this thing 
is impossible so long as we make every meal a feast 
and the "groaning table" the primary object of life. 



27 



Temperature of Foods 

^■■l^HE vital processes of the human body can only 

Ai proceed at a temperature at or very near that 

of the blood, which in health is 98 Fahrenheit. 

If the temperature is lowered below this point or- 
ganic processes become slower and slower until at 
the freezing point of water they practically cease. If 
foods are frozen certain changes occur. These are for 
the most part mechanical changes and quite harmless. 
With a few articles of food, as potatoes or the yolks 
of ^SSf freezing causes chemical changes which are 
undesirable. Save for these few exceptions, cooled 
foods when re-warmed are exactly as they were be- 
fore. 

If foods be heated above the life temperature vital 
processes again slacken ; let this heating be continued 
till a temperature from 150 to 170 Fahrenheit is 
reached, and not only are all life processes stopped but 
the proteids or protoplasm coagulate and profound and 
permanent chemical changes occur. As the tempera- 
ture continues to rise, still other changes occur until 
at the temperature of 300 only a charred fragment de- 
void of nutriment remains. 

Between these points of 32 and 150 Fahrenheit no 
28 



chemical changes caused by temperature occur, but, as 
we have above mentioned, it is at 98 that the vital 
processes act at their greatest efficiency. 

It therefore follows that foods may have been sub- 
jected to any temperatures within the range given if 
they are brought to the body temperature before diges- 
tion begins. Thus, bringing the temperature of foods 
to the body temperature is one of the duties and pleas- 
ures of the mouth in eating and drinking. 

Food or drink when there is food in the stomach 
must not be taken at such temperatures and in such 
quantities as to materially change the temperature of 
the stomach, and in the case of starchy foods the same 
rule should apply to the mouth, for the most important 
step in starch digestion occurs in the mouth. 

A range of temperature from 40 degrees below to 
20 degrees above body temperature is sufficient to give 
our temperature taste sense ample play for action 
and, if food is taken slowly, is perfectly consistent with 
correct principles of nutrition. Ices, if free from starch 
and if eaten slowly, are legitimate food articles. Hot 
breads and hot puddings on the other hand are objec- 
tionable. Soups, milk, nuts, etc., may be taken warm, 
and if made enjoyable are to be commended. 

The artful use of warmed and cooled foods will en- 
able many to make the change from a cooked to an un- 
cooked bill-of-fare who without this artifice might fall 
by the wayside and return to the steaming viands of 
conventionality. 

29 







Canned Food 

WING to the fact that it saves labor, the use 
of canned food has become universal. From 
the kitchen where each housewife could per- 
sonally superintend the canning and preserving of the 
family supply of a few fruits, this process has been 
made into one of America's greatest industries and has 
reached out and taken in nearly every article of food 
that goes upon the family table. 

Even when vegetables are in season, hotels, restaur- 
ants and boarding houses serve almost exclusively can- 
ned foods, this is so because it is less expensive, saves 
labor of cleaning and preparing and saves time in the 
process of cooking. 

The preservatives, chemicals, dye stuffs, embalming 
fluids and various other poisons so recklessly used by 
canning companies, in total disregard of human Hfe 
and health, being brought to the attention of our na- 
tional government, was the real cause of the passage 
of the Federal pure food law. It is to be seriously re- 
gretted that the Federal authorities did not give the 
public more information along these lines, but dollars 
were at stake and, as a rule, dollars win. 

Every housewife knows, or should know, that the 
30 



process of preparation and canning of bright red fruits 
to some extent destroys the color, leaving them rather 
dull in appearance, hence she should know that the 
bright red or natural color of any canned fruit is arti- 
ficial, made so perhaps by dye stuffs as poisonous as 
strychnine. This same risk is to be run in nearly all 
canned fruits, vegetables and especially canned meats. 

Meat at best is unfit for human food, but when 
chemically preserved, colored and embalmed to be eaten 
constitutes the limit of human ignorance. 

If the American people had devoted the same amount 
of thought to the question of good food that they have 
to cheap food, great evaporating or dehydrating plants 
would stand as a monument to the health and intelli- 
gence of the people instead of the money-making, food- 
poisoning canning factories. 

If the average woman who directs the family table 
would devote half as much time to the study of pure 
food as she does to the fashion plates, she could supply 
the table luxuriously every day in the year, wholly with- 
out the use of one article of canned food. 

Fruits out of season could be secured in dried or 
evaporated form. These could be prepared without 
cooking, merely soaking them in pure water so as to 
restore their normal amount of moisture. Under this 
process the inferior part is revealed and could be dis- 
carded. 

There is no community so remote that such vege- 
tables as potatoes, cabbage, turnips, beets, carrots, pars- 

31 



nips, pumpkin, dried fruits, legumes (peas, beans, etc.) 
and all kinds of whole grain cannot be secured at any 
season of the year. To this can be added the semi- 
tropical fruits such as grape fruit, oranges, apples, 
bananas and all kinds of nuts and dairy products which 
are available to those who are willing to trouble them- 
selves enough to secure and prepare them. 

Every requirement of the human body can be found 
m the above catalogue of food. If there is a yearning 
for other things it is a false desire and should be 
treated with the same courteous deference that a sen- 
sible person would pay to the longing for moonshine 
whiskey or black Havana cigars. 



32 



Refrigerator and Kitchen 
Hygiene 

^■P^ HE kitchen, refrigerator and pantry are three of 
V^ the most important places in the home. 

Kitchen hygiene should be a most conspicu- 
ous part of every woman's education. She may not 
ccok or scrub refrigerators, but unless she knows how 
these places should be kept she will not be qualified to 
direct the care they need. 

The refrigerator should be thoroughly cleaned three 
times a week and scalded twice a week. 

Milk, butter and cream should be kept covered. 

Meat should be kept entirely separate from all other 
foods. 

Stale or decaying vegetables should be removed 
daily. 

No food should be allowed to reach the point of 
decay. 

The refrigerator is an air tight compartment in which 
the flavor from every article of food it contains is more 
or less absorbed by all. 

A few lessons in the chemistry of harmonious com- 
binations of food would give the housewife some valu- 

33 



able hints in regard to refrigerator hygiene and prob- 
ably cause a revolution in its contents. 

The kitchen is the most difficult, at the same time 
most important, place in the home to keep clean and 
for the very reason that it requires constant care is 
the reason why it is so often neglected. 

If any part of the home must be neglected, let it be 
the parlor, which is used once a week, or the bed-rooms 
which are used only at night, but the kitchen, where the 
material that builds and sustains the human body is 
prepared, should be kept immaculate. It should be 
thoroughly ventilated and should be, if possible, the 
lightest and sunniest room in the home. 

The pantry is an important auxiliary to the kitchen 
and should be looked after with the same diligence and 
care that is bestowed upon the kitchen and refrigerator. 

Every article of food in the pantry should be placed 
under dust-proof coverings. 

The shelves should be thoroughly cleansed once a 
week. Cooking vessels should never be placed in the 
pantry until they are thoroughly cleaned and dried. 

The importance of kitchen hygiene may be estimated 
when we remember that food, its selection and prep- 
aration, is the controlling factor of that most coveted of 
all things in life, our health. 



S4 



Water Drinking 

^■■p^ HE healthy body is composed of about 66 per 
VI, cent, water. But few people drink water 
enough. Such articles as fresh vegetables, salad, 
fruits, milk and eggs contain enough water to bring the 
moisture of each meal up to the 66 per cent, require- 
ment. If a meal is composed of such articles as do not 
contain the required amount of water then the deficit 
should be made up by drinking with meals. 

The "washing down" process, however, should be 
very carefully avoided. Water should not be taken 
into the mouth with the food, or at least until mastica- 
tion is perfect. 

Water is the most prolific thing in our food and the 
largest constituent element of the human body, and 
while a volume might be written upon its importance 
and use under the varying conditions of the body, in 
sickness and health, age, atmospheric temperature, 
work, etc., etc., yet in this treatise I have only room for 
suggestions. 

In order to promote good digestion and give the body 
the percentage of moisture Nature demands, the seden- 
tary worker in normal temperature should drink from 
one to one and a half quarts of pure water every day. 

35 



If exposed to the heat of summer's sun engaged in 
labor or much activity, from two to three quarts of 
water should be drunk. 

Water is Nature's great solvent and cleanser. It 
serves several very important purposes in the human 
body. 

First, as a solvent or an aid to digestion. 

Second, as a carrier of food atoms into the cell. 

Third, as a means of eliminating body poisons. 

Much care should be exercised that water be pure. 

To induce copious water drinking fresh spring or 
artesian well water is much superior to the boiled or 
distilled article. 



36 



Care of The Teeth 

^WF^ O a woman the teeth are of extraordinary im- 
VI portance. 

First. They perform the most important 
function of digestion. 

Second. Good teeth mean a sweet and wholesome 
breath. 

Third. Two rows of fine, clean, well-kept teeth 
make even a homely mouth kissable. 

In order to have good teeth they must be used. One 
should eat at every meal some article of hard food that 
requires thorough mastication. 

Good digestion, hence a sweet and wholesome breath, 
is impossible without complete mastication of food. 

Complete mastication means to reduce every atom of 
food to emulsion before swallowing it. This prevents 
over-eating and consequently stomach trouble and the 
long line of ills that follow. 

In taking care of the teeth the following general 
rules should be observed : 

First. Brush the teeth with a downward stroke, 
using a medium soft brush, after every meal and the 
last thing before retiring and the first thing after 
arising. 

37 



Second. Have all tartar (calcareous deposits) re- 
moved by a careful dentist as often as it becomes 
necessary (three or four times a year). 

Third. All stains and every atom of food should be 
removed from the teeth daily by washing with a soft 
brush and a good powder. 

A bite of tart apple, well masticated, makes a splen- 
did dentrifice. 

Fourth. Have your teeth examined every month by 
an honest dentist. Bacteria that cause decay of the 
teeth feed upon the atoms of food that are allowed to 
accumulate between the teeth and around the gums 
and it is the excreta of the bacteria (lactic acid) that 
disintegrates the tooth structure. 



38 



Care of The Hair 

iJBP^ HE principal cause of dandruff and the prema- 
Vl ture loss of hair is a lack of nourishment. The 
hair is impoverished from two causes : 

First, an unbalanced diet. 

Second, the hard or derby hat which cuts off circula- 
tion of the blood above the hat line. 

The hat band usually marks the line of baldness on 
the average man's head. 

The logical -remedy is, first, of course, to remove 
causes ; second, massage or any manipulation to bring 
blood to the top of the head. 

When the hair first begins to fall out or dandruff ap- 
pears, the scalp should be vigorously massaged every 
night just before retiring and every morning just after 
arising and kept exceedingly clean. A soft hat should 
be worn with a very soft inner band. 

In addition to these things the chemical needs of the 
body should be studied and the diet so balanced and 
proportioned as to give the body all the elements of 
nourishment it requires. 

Obedience to these simple rules will not only pre- 
vent falling hair, but every part of the body will share 
in the general improvement. 

39 



Feminine Beauty 

3F the desire for beauty was not a dominating femi- 
nine instinct, women should be moved by duty 
to make themselves as attractive and beautiful as 
possible. Attention, adoration and love is to woman 
what water, air and sunshine is to the vine. Every 
woman possesses some charm, some trait, some indi- 
vidual something in which she is superior and which 
can be cultivated and made fascinating. 

To be attractive is of much more importance than to 
be beautiful, women of rare personal beauty are in- 
clined to rest their claim for preferment too much upon 
mere appearance ; so conspicuous has this become that 
it is the general opinion that beautiful women are not 
gifted, but the true explanation is they do not work. 
While the woman without personal beauty feels that her 
accomplishments are her passport to that which the 
heart most covets, and as she unfolds and ascends 
higher and higher in the scale of mentality she is less 
and less liable to get married, not that she is less quali- 
fied or desirous of becoming a wife and mother, but 
because men for a thousand years have been trained to 
consider women mentally weak and physically helpless, 
and the more she progresses the more she deviates from 

40 



this ancient ideal of his ; but a new era is appearing, 
thousands of thinking men are seeking women with 
accompHshments who can serve other purposes except 
sex and ornamentation. 

Women who have dared to put one feeble finger 
upon the steering wheel of public affairs, who can do 
things, are being respected, loved and sought by men 
who are making history and carving out the destiny of 
the future. 

The higher woman ascends in the scale of intellect- 
uality the more beautiful she becomes in character, and 
while personal beauty decreases, character beauty in- 
creases with experience and age. 

While it is the duty of every woman to make her- 
self as attractive personally as possible, yet to be use- 
ful, to select some one thing and master it, to take a 
few steps upward in the plan of evolution, is vastly 
more important. 

If a woman were voted the most beautiful in her 
city or county, the most it would bring her would be a 
form of homage and adoration from the lighter intel- 
lects who are attracted only by what they can see. 

This is very sweet and dear to every woman's heart, 
but it has hindered instead of helped the world's most 
beautiful women in attaining that which they most 
desire when life's shadow begins to fall toward the 
East. 

The following is an excerpt from a lecture delivered 
41 



by Eugene Christian before the Ladies' Democratic 
Club of New York : 

"It is not only woman's desire, but her duty to make 
herself as beautiful as possible. The beauty of woman 
immortalized the marble of Rome and the canvas of 
Florence. It always has, and always will, sway the 
destiny of men. Its magnetic and magic power has en- 
throned and dethroned rulers and changed the map of 
nations. 

"Women, if you would be beautiful you must be heal- 
thy. The pale, frail girl or woman may excite sympathy 
and superficial adoration, but the thing that counts — 
the thing that sends the blood like molten rubies flying 
through the veins of men is the glow and go, the laugh, 
the glance and dance, the bubbling vitality, the radiating 
magnetism of health. These things make all women 
beautiful. Beauty is the 'sun by day and the pillar of 
fire by night' that moves health's warm stream upward 
in the thermometer of fellowship, aflfection and love, 
while the cold touch of disease on the beautiful but 
pallid face and form heads it for 33 above. Why? 
Because we are human. A pity? Yes, but the facts 
remain. 

"Health is impossible without some knowledge of how 
to select, combine and proportion the material that 
makes the blood, bone and brain — that builds the body 
beautiful." 



42 




Feminine Freedom 

URING the past few years woman's sphere of 
action and usefulness has been very rapidly 
widening in every department of life except 
that in which she should be supreme, viz., the selec- 
tion and preparation of food. 

Women do not accomplish more because they do not 
undertake more. They do not adopt food reform ; first, 
because they are held responsible for the table, hence 
feel that they must conform to old customs to please 
others ; and, second, because women have not yet 
learned to break conventional chains and think for 
themselves. 

There is no system of servitude that could be more 
complete than the housewife cooking three "square 
meals" every day and cleaning her kitchen pots and 
dishes. The breakfast work laps into the noon, and 
the noon labor into the evening, and the evening far 
into the night. 

A system of food reform might be installed in every 
home, that would reduce the labor and care of the culi- 
nary department very greatly, if the housewife would 
use a little diplomacy. 

First, every woman should remember the fact that 
43 



a fraction over 90 per cent of all human ills originate 
at the dinner table, or in other words, are caused by 
errors in eating. Every housewife, and especially the 
mother, is largely responsible, therefore, for the health 
of the family and her only method of security lies in a 
knowledge of the few simple fundamental laws of 
Applied Food Chemistry. 

Every wife owes to herself and to her children the 
opportunity to cultivate the mental, physical and emo- 
tional faculties to their highest degree of development. 

It is pathetic to see the young wife, anxious to per- 
form her duty and give pleasure to others, drop into 
the treadmill of kitchen slavery and get as a reward 
for her labor disordered digestion, an irritable, nervous 
husband and unhealthy children. 

Some study given to food reform, to the actual re- 
quirements of the body according to age, work, climate, 
etc., would change all these conditions toward better 
living, higher thinking and more happiness. 

The cost of living would be reduced, labor in pre- 
paring food would be a pleasure, enjoyment of eating 
multiplied a hundred-fold, digestion would be perfect, 
good health and good cheer would reign, and above and 
better than all, the wife and mother would have time to 
improve her mind, to think, study, and read, to go into 
the open road, the fields and woods — to draw some in- 
spiration from the tranquil grandeur of nature — to 
endow her posterity with the highest, the noblest and 
the best. 

44 



The character of freedom that I advocate for women 
is not Hcense or masculinity, but the preservation and 
cultivation of all that is ennobling, elevating and wom- 
anly ; but I insist that women should have something 
to say about what is womanly and what is elevating. 
From dimpled infancy to manhood, she carries the 
burden of posterity, she loves, labors and caresses 
nations into strength and power ; with this responsibility 
and interest at stake, she could be depended upon to 
judge fairly well that character of freedom which would 
be best for her, which would mean best for her coun- 
try and best for all mankind. 

Just to the extent that woman is governed and con- 
trolled, so will her posterity be governed and controlled, 
by beings mentally stronger. Just to the extent that she 
is enslaved, her posterity can be enslaved. Just to the 
extent that she is healthy, strong and vigorous, her 
children will be healthy, strong and vigorous. Just to 
the extent that her life is made joyous, that she culti- 
vates the beautiful, that she is loved and loves in re- 
turn, so will her children be endowed with these things 
Just to the extent that she is inspired with a love of 
country, patriotism, pure government — just to the ex- 
tent that she participates in making good government, 
in the selection of its officers and the fulfillment of 
office, in the shaping and making of conditions under 
which she and her children must live, just to that 
extent will her children be patriotic and stand for 

45 



justice and the right, from the fireside to the nation's 
capital. 

On the other hand, justto the extfijt that she is 
silenced, governed and controlled by laws in which she 
has no voice, just to the extent that she is disfran- 
chised and refused citizenship, to that extent will she 
bring forth a race that will drag the flag of their coun- 
try into the mire of money and politics. 

Women should have the ballot because instinctive 
protection for her offspring would lead the nation 
towards political purity. 



46 



Feeding the Pregnant and 
Nursing Mother 

/^W"^ HERE is no time in the life of a woman when 
%f I ^ food is of so much importance as during the 
time of her pregnancy and when nursing her 
babe. 

Food determines the strength and vitality, the mental 
tranquility, the physical comfort or discomfort that 
comes from good or poor digestion. It controls more 
than any other one thing, the thoughts and imagina- 
tion ; that is, under a perfect system of feeding, the pro- 
spective mother forgets self and her mind turns natur- 
ally to the higher, the better and the nobler things. All 
of these things leave their imprint upon the embryotic 
being and wield a powerful influence over its future 
destiny. 

The pregnant mother should bestow upon her diet the 
most infinite study if she would give to her offspring 
those splendid faculties which every mother desires. 

Owing to the various pursuits and ages of mothers 
and the climatic conditions of their environment, spe- 
cific instructions in regard to diet could not be given 
here. This would require the care and advice of a 
specialist. 

47 



The fundamental laws governing diet during ma- 
ternity, however, can be laid out in the form of classi- 
fications and omissions. 

All flesh foods contain uric acid and other toxic 
poisons, which added to similar poisons produced by the 
human body inflict a special burden upon the organs of 
elimination. In addition to these reasons, meat con- 
tains no element of nutrition which cannot be secured 
in a better and purer form from other sources, there- 
fore it is wholly unnecessary, in fact, a violation of 
natural law to burden the mother body with poisons 
and non-nutritive substances in order to secure the 
common elements of protein and fat which can be had 
from a dozen vegetable sources in their purest and 
most delicious form. 

Stimulants should be eliminated from the pregnant 
mother's diet ; first, because they produce no energy ; 
and second, because they irritate and excite the millions 
of infinitely small nerve fibers to a point above par, 
and when the effect is gone the nervous system is 
dropped below par, and this constant raising and low- 
ering process deranges the nervous system of the 
mother and leaves its baneful impression upon the body 
and brain of another being. 

The over-consumption of starch foods should be 
carefully avoided because the calcareous element in 
starch is apt to produce a large structural or bone for- 
mation in the child, making it exceedingly difficult of 

48 



delivery and sometimes out of the proper physical pro- 
portion. 

The food of the pregnant mother should consist of 
vegetables, all green and succulent plants that are edi- 
ble, thoroughly ripened fruit, nuts, milk (fresh or 
clabbered), eggs and a limited quantity of coarse 
bread, made from the entire grain. She should avoid 
pastries and especially an excess of articles containing 
cane sugar, confections and soda-fount drinks. 

The prospective mother should take a reasonable 
amount of exercise daily, a great deal of deep breath- 
ing in the open air and should masticate every particle 
of food she swallows to infinite fineness. She should 
remember that every movement of the body from the 
winking of an eye to the most strenuous labor con- 
sumes energy. From these spent forces there are 
poisons left in the body that must be eliminated in 
order to be healthy. 

The health of the nursing infant is controlled almost 
wholly by the mother's food. It is not extravagant to 
say that the frightful loss of infant life given in Chap- 
ter on Infant Mortality could be reduced seventy-five 
per cent, if mothers understood and would observe the 
few simple laws that govern the conversion of their 
food into mother's milk suitable for the healthy growth 
of infant life. 

There is a popular superstition that every infant 
must pass through what is known as "the three months' 
colic." This period of infant suffering begins about 

49 



one week after birth, that is to say, as soon as the 
mother begins to eat, and lasts until the infant diges- 
tion becomes inured to the omnivorous, thoughtless 
and abominable compounds that compose the mother's 
diet, or until the little one has succumbed to stomach 
trouble, inflammation of the intestines or cholera in- 
fantum. 

The attending physician usually gives some vague 
and careless suggestions about diet, winding up his 
lightly considered instructions with that most pleasing 
advice, "Oh, eat what agrees v/ith you." 

This is about as valuable to the mother as the ad- 
vice given to the reforming drunkard by the patent pill 
vendor who advised him to "Drink what you like and 
take my pills." What he liked was the very thing that 
had proved his undoing, likewise what the average 
nursing mother likes most is the conventional bill-of- 
fare, pork, pickles and pastry. 

The food of the nursing mother should be con- 
fined to rather narrow limitations. She can secure cer- 
tain food articles which contain all the elements of 
nourishment she needs and w^hich will give to her child 
all it needs and in no wise disturb its digestion or en- 
danger its life, from a few of Nature's most staple and 
most delicious things. 

The nursing mother should omit from her diet all 
stimulating, narcotic and sedative beverages such as tea, 
coffee, beer, wine and liquors. She should avoid ex- 
tremes, both acids and sweets. She should omit all 

50 



forms of flesh food except young tender fish or the white 
or bloodless portion of chicken, and these need only be 
taken to relieve dietetic monotony or when such proteid 
foods as eggs, milk and legumes cannot be obtained. Con- 
sidering the requirements of the baby, the mother's 
food should consist of fresh vegetables, green salads 
(omitting vinegar), nuts, semi-acid and sweet fruits, 
milk, eggs and a limited quantity of starch foods and 
natural sweets, such as bread made from the entire 
grain, either wheat or rye, dates, figs or raisins. 

One of the most important things for the mother to 
preserve is mental and physical tranquility. The 
mother should not nurse her child while laboring under 
any mental disturbance or excitement such as anger 
or fright, or any physical conditions such as fatigue 
or while over-heated. 

If the diet of the pregnant or nursing mother were 
selected from the articles herein named, properly com- 
bined and proportioned, thoroughly masticated, and if 
she could be induced to devote fifteen minutes night 
and morning to vigorous exercise in the open air and 
to filling the lungs to their utmost capacity with good, 
fresh ozone a few hundred times a day, it would be 
almost impossible for either the mother or child to be- 
come afflicted with abnormal conditions we are pleased 
to call disease. 



51 



Infant Mortality in New 
York City 

jf^ OOD and fresh air are the two things that 
^l ahiiost wholly control the life of children until 
^*^ they are past two years of age. 

If the stomach and intestines can be kept in normal 
condition, the child like any other little animal will 
thrive even under many adverse conditions. 

The normal or healthy action of the stomach and 
alimentary tract depends entirely upon the child's 
food, therefore, child feeding is in truth the key to 
child health and child life. 

The woeful ignorance of mothers, nurses and doc- 
tors in regard to infant and child nutrition is patheti- 
cally shown in the appalling death rate of infants in 
the city of New York, which we print here for the first 
time. 

The following is a table of infant and child mortality 
in the city of New York : 



52 



Death Rate of Children under Two Years of Age in New 

York City, from Diarrhoeal Causes, and from All Causes 

for Two Months— July 2nd to September 3rd, 

1910, Given in Weeks. ^ 

Diarrhoeal Causes. All Causes. 

Week Ending July 2nd i79 438 

9th 265 539 

i6th 424 709 

23rd 373 626 

30th 384 656 

Aug. 6th 288 SS9 

13th 270 520 

20th 237 468 

27th 246 494 

Sept. 3rd 220 447 

2886 5456 

Death List of Children in New York City for one year— 1909. 
Under Two Years of Age. 

Diarrhceal Causes. All Causes. 

5126 20,716 

It is fair to assume that mothers in New York know 
as much as do the mothers of any other American city 
about infant feeding. In other words, it is reasonable 
to conclude that mothers and doctors in other large 
American cities are as ignorant on this question as are 
the mothers and doctors of New York. This being 
true, it is evident that nearly 10,000 children die in the 
ten leading American cities from July first to Septem- 
ber first (two months) of every year. 

The aggregate population of the cities referred to is 
about ten million. It is shown, therefore, that about 

53 



one thousand children out of every million of city popu- 
lation die before they are twenty-four months old 
from what we assert to be mostly preventable diseases. 
Our experience has been that mothers, doctors and 
nurses in the small towns, or country, are as ignorant 
on the question of infant nutrition as the mothers and 
doctors in the city of New York. This being true, it is 
not unreasonable to assume that nearly one thousand 
children out of every million population in the entire 
United States die every summer on account of the 
woeful and pitiful ignorance in regard to selecting, 
combining and preparing their food, but to be clearly 
within the bounds of reason let us assume that only five 
hundred children out of every million population in 
the United States perishes during July and August of 
every summer, THEN WE HAVE A FUNERAL 
TRAIN OF FORTY-FIVE THOUSAND INNO- 
CENT LITTLE ONES EVERY YEAR WHO ARE 
VICTIMS OF UNPARDONABLE IGNORANCE. 

It is also reasonable to assume and we personally in- 
sist that nearly all these valuable little lives could be 
saved if mothers were taught the simple and natural 
laws of infant nutrition. 

Insomuch as more than half the number of deaths 
from all causes, shown in these tables during the two 
summer months, were from diarrhoeal, that is to say, 
stomach and intestinal causes, it is entirely reasonable 
to assume that over half of these lives could have been 
saved by feeding these little ones correctly. 

54 



This work can be accomplished by teaching nursing 
mothers first how to feed themselves and, second, if 
the baby is bottle fed, teaching them how to prepare and 
modify or humanize its milk, which is a cheap and 
simple process. This is a service that every mother 
would willingly perform for her child if she knew how. 
The responsibility, therefore, for this tremendous suf- 
fering and loss of infant life is thrown back upon us — 
back upon us who do know and who are able to teach 
and distribute simple information that will save the 
breaking hearts of thousands of mothers — save human 
life — save the greatest asset of our common country. 

If cholera, smallpox or yellow fever should become 
epidemic in New York and over 5,000 adults should 
die of any one of these diseases in sixty days, the whole 
city and state would be thrown into a panic. Doctors, 
ministers, churches, health boards, rich people and 
noisy newspapers would take a hand in the fight. An 
iron bound quarantine would be thrown around the 
empire city. A man escaping from New York would be 
looked upon as bristling with disease and death — but 
2,800 helpless little ones dying every sixty days in the 
city of New York in summer, from stomach and intes- 
tinal trouble that could be easily prevented, does not 
attract enough public attention to be worthy of notice in 
the daily newspapers. 

In all the branches of science, infant and child nutri- 
tion seems to us to be the greatest work that the 
human mind can find to do. 

55 



Infant Feeding 

AND GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOUT THE 
HEALTH AND CARE OF CHILDREN 

^^'^OLUMES have been written upon this subject, 
XT/ laborious analyses have been made, tables have 
been compiled, terms in chemistry have been 
severely drawn upon to explain things ; the efforts of all 
these writers, no doubt, were inspired by the noblest 
purposes, nevertheless amid their citations, tables and 
learned technicalities the average mother stands bewild- 
ered and must perforce turn back to common sense, 
experience and motherly instinct. It is here that every 
mother should have some knowledge of the chemistry 
of food. She should know something about selecting 
and combining such things as are in chemical harmony. 
She should know something about the requirements of 
the infant body and in what particular respect it dif- 
fers from that of the adult. If she is nursing she 
should have some idea about the process of metabolism 
in her own body and the consequent effects of certain 
foods upon her babe. If the infant is bottle fed she 
should understand the simple laws governing the qual- 
ity and quantity of milk to be administered. 
If it has passed the weaning stage it is of great im- 
56 



portance that she know the rules of graduating the 
nutrition from infancy to childhood and from child- 
hood to youth. 

In order to have practical and useful knowledge of 
these things it is not necessary for the mother to be- 
come a chemist or food scientist or spend much time in 
studying what seems at first to be an intricate scientific 
problem comprehensible only to the trained student ; 
quite to the contrary, with a little thought and study 
devoted to the fundamental laws of food chemistry, 
chemical harmony and the requirements of the grow- 
ing child, this knowledge comes to the mother as readily 
and naturally as instinct in all mother life throws its 
protecting arms about its young. 

The following are general rules for feeding the in- 
fant from birth to about one year of age. 

These rules cannot be made accurate, because all 
children differ in temperament, vitality and pre-natal 
influences, but if the mother will observe these in- 
structions with reasonable care her child can be brought 
healthfully through the most critical period of its life 
and enter the solid food age with good digestion, a 
strong body and a splendid chance to withstand all 
children's diseases. 

Every mother should endeavor to feed herself so as 
to nourish her baby from the breast, if possible, but 
where this cannot be done and artificial feeding be- 
comes necessary, then the preparation of the baby food 
is of primary importance. 



Cow's milk is, of course, the logical food, but taken 
whole, that is, the entire milk, it is too high in pro- 
teids and deficient in sugar, therefore, in order to make 
a healthy infant food it must be modified according to 
the requirements of the infant body. 

The nurse or mother should prepare an amount suf- 
ficient for only one day's supply at a time after the fol- 
lowing formula: 

Cream 2 oz. 

Milk 2 oz. 

Water 15 oz. 

Milk Sugar 4 level teaspoons 

Lime Water 2 teaspoons or Vz ounce 

This should be thoroughly mixed, placed in the bot- 
tle, and set in warm water until it is brought to the 
temperature of breast milk. The above formula can be 
used during the first month of baby's life : 

Amount and frequency of feedings according to the 
following table : 

Age. Feedings. Ounces. Intervals. 

1st day 5 to 6 i 3 or 4 hours 

2nd day 7 to 8 i 2^/2 to 3 hours 

3rd to 7th day 9 to 10 iJ4 2 to 2^ hours 

2d, 3rd, 4th weeks.. 10 2 to 3 2 hours 

Formula for second and third months : 

Cream 3H oz. 

Milk lYz oz. 

Water 14 oz. 

Milk Sugar 5 teaspoonsful 

Lime Water 2^ teaspoonsful 

58 



Amount and frequency of feedings should be about 
as follows : 

Months. Feedings. Ounces. Intervals. 

2nd and 3rd. 7 to 8 3 to 4 2 or 3 hours 

Formula for fourth to twelfth months: 

Cream 6 to 8 ounces 

Milk 2 to 3 " 

Water 10 " 

Milk Sugar 5 to 6 teaspoonsful 

Lime Water 2 to 3 " 

Amount and frequency of feedings should be about 
as follows : 

Months. Feedings. Ounces. Intervals. 

4th, sth and 6th 5 to 6 4 to 6 3 to 3^ hours 

7th, Sth and 9th 5 6 to 7 4 to 4^ houra 

loth, nth and 12th... 5 6 to 8 4 to 4^ hours 

The above formulas for Infant Food are the best 
that can be made from ordinary cow's milk. 

My Vieno Baby Food, however, is superior to cow's 
milk and where it can be obtained it should be prepared 
according to my recipes and administered in same quan- 
tity and at the same intervals as the modified milk in 
above formulas. 

If the Vieno Baby Food cannot be obtained from your 
druggist, see page 183, 

The milk, sugar and lime water herein named can 
be purchased at any first class drug store. 

These tables are not given as exact. The mother 
should exercise careful vigilance and judgment, espe- 

59 



cially in reference to the quantity of each feeding and 
the frequency. The moment the child shows symptoms 
of over-feeding, which are usually expressed by vomit- 
ing or discomfort, the quantity of cream and the amount 
at each feeding should be reduced. In fact, it is health- 
ful and often necessary to allow the child an oppor- 
tunity to get hungry. The digestion of many a baby 
is totally ruined by continuous feeding which is done 
out of motherly sympathy or to merely keep it quiet. 

The mother or nurse should exercise great care in the 
cleanliness and hygienic preparation of infants' foods. 
Milk should be fresh and of the very best. It should 
not be left uncovered or exposed. It should be kept 
continually on ice until ready for use. The cream used 
should be taken from the top of a bottle or from fresh 
milk. This insures better quality of butter fat than is 
generally supplied in ordinary commercial dairy cream. 

The majority of bottle-fed children suffer greatly 
from constipation caused largely by the milk or the 
failure to modify the milk properly or make it con- 
tain the constituent elements of breast milk. This 
condition can be relieved by giving the child, every night 
and morning, sweet orange juice or the juice from 
soaked prunes preferred. This should be administered 
in quantities ranging from a dozen drops to two or 
three teaspoonfuls, according to the age of the child 
and the severity of the condition. 

Intestinal congestion can often be relieved, however, 
60 



by giving the abdomen gentle massage, preferably in a 
rotary or spherical motion. 

All infants need some exercise, they should be gently 
rubbed and rolled about after the morning bath, before 
they are dressed. There is nothing more healthful than 
exposure of the baby skin to fresh air in a normal 
temperature. 

Next in importance to the food of the infant is its 
clothing. The usual custom of dressing a baby the 
first three months of its life, is positively barbaric, not 
that it imitates uncivilized people, but because it evi- 
dences the grossest ignorance and crudest vanity. The 
mother seems to have no way of expressing her pride 
in her child except to decorate it. This decoration 
usually consists of three long skirts, two of them at- 
tached to bands which are fastened around the body. 
The weight of this clothing prevents the free use of 
the baby's feet and legs and therefore, puts it in a kind 
of civilized straight jacket, depriving it of exercising 
or moving the only part of its anatony that it can freely 
exercise. 

It is nothing uncommon to see a beautiful baby, 
sore, irritated and broken out with heat all over its 
little body by heavy envelopes of barbaric rags. 

The child, therefore, is made to suffer merely that it 
may please a proud mother and conform to an ignorant 
custom a thousand years old. 

The only purpose clothing should serve is bodily 
warmth; when it is made the instrument of painful 

61 



decoration it is serving the same purpose as rings in 
the ears and bells on the toes, and the mind of the 
mother who thus afflicts her child is in the same class 
as that of the ignorant barbarian whom she imitates. 

Infants should be put in short skirts, attached to 
bodies suspended from the shoulders ; everything should 
be made to contribute to comfort. This is a duty we 
owe to the little one whose only way of protesting 
against our cruelty is to kick and cry. 

While the baby is under the care of the mother or 
nurse its diet can be and is usually controlled — it is 
after it is walking and talking that what it eats so com- 
pletely governs its health. 

Children are naturally healthier than their parents. 
The trend of Nature is upward toward higher and 
higher forms of life, therefore, if the principle of nat- 
ural evolution were not in some way interfered with, 
babies, with very few exceptions, would be perfectly 
healthy and their comparative death rate would be 
lower than among adults. 

The child's taste or desire for certain things cannot 
be trusted. All children crave sweets, yet their bodies 
can only use and dispose of a limited amount. Every 
pennyweight of sugar taken in excess of that which 
is needed becomes a source of trouble. 

Cheap confections, especially "penny suckers" and all 
that class of things, should be prohibited by law. 

From long experience we are justified in saying that 
cheap confections and over-eating of sweets are the 

62 



most prolilic causes of children's diseases. These things 
may not be the direct cause, but when disease appears 
and attacks the Httle body it has no power of resist- 
ance and the child succumbs. 

The craving of sweets can be satisfied by natural 
things such as dates, figs or raisins, and now and then 
a little pure maple sugar or a pure home-made con- 
fection, but these should be administered sparingly and 
governed by the amount of open air exercise, tempera- 
ture of the atmosphere and the mother's good judg- 
ment. 

The child's bed-room should be kept thoroughly ven- 
tilated, cold and crisp even in winter, care being exer- 
cised that the little one does not become uncovered and 
exposed. 

Children can withstand a great amount of cold. The 
blood of the healthy child is thick with the red corpus- 
cles, and when allowed to romp and play it will be com- 
fortable out in zero weather, thinly clad compared with 
the amount of clothing worn by the adult. 

In a great majority of cases, probably ninety per 
cent, when a child becomes ill the cause can be traced 
directly to what it has eaten, therefore, to give it drugs 
or the average children's medicines under these con- 
ditions is a little less than criminal. 

Drugs do not remove causes, but they interfere most 
seriously with Nature in her eififort so to do. 

When a child becomes ill, or its temperature rises 
above normal, it should first be given an enema to re- 

63 



move congestion of the lower bowels and followed by a 
light natural laxative fruit juice, such as strained orange 
juice, juice of soaked evaporated apricots or prunes. It 
should drink copiously of water and abstain entirely 
from food. Under this treatment the abnormal symp- 
toms are very apt to disappear and the child will be 
better and healthier for the short abstinence from food, 
while the anxiety of the mother will be relieved, the 
family purse conserved and the child freed from the 
ignorant practice of drug poison. 

These suggestions are intended as a guide for the 
nurse or mother in caring for the average normal child, 
if, however, the infant or youth should become ill or 
show signs of gradual decline, its care should be sub- 
mitted to a specialist, preferably to someone who un- 
derstands the art of child-feeding or infant hygiene. 

If the mother would devote some of her time to 
studying nature and the wants of her child, depending 
more upon good mother sense than upon artificial reme- 
dies, drug stores and doctors, the peal of happy laugh- 
ter would come from the door of many a home where 
hangs the white crepe as an emblem of civilized 
ignorance. 



64 



Food for School Children 

j r^OOD is the most important thing to be con- 

II sidered. In the school child nutrition must 
^'^ serve two distinct purposes : 

First, material for growth. 

Second, material for the extra mental work and 
worry. 

The child mind will not labor except under compul- 
sion or necessity. All early education is, therefore, a 
system of forcing things. This extreme demand upon 
the body must be provided for — white bread, coffee, 
pickles and sweets will not do the work. 

There is no time in life when there should be so 
much care exercised in feeding, and there is no time in 
life when the appetite runs riot and so many mistakes 
are made as during school days. 

The body of the growing, especially the school child, 
will appropriate a much greater per cent of carbohy- 
drates (starch and sugar) than that of the adult. On 
the other hand the adult can take stimulants such as 
tea and coffee with less harm than the youth. 

The diet of school children should be confined to 
the most soluble form of proteids, such as milk and 
eggs and coarse cereals, such as wheat, oats and rye 

65 



products and the coarse fibrous vegetables. They 
should also partake of a liberal portion of fruits and 
fats such as nuts, butter and olive oil. 

The school child should religiously avoid all kinds of 
candy and artificial sweets. A reasonable amount of 
natural sweets, such as dates, figs, or raisins, maple 
sugar or even cane sugar can be taken with meals, but 
the school child habit of consuming cheap confections 
between meals is ruinous to the digestion and exceed- 
ingly harmful to the activity and development of the 
mind. 

The college chap sitting on the end of his spine with 
his feet higher than his head, poisoning himself with 
nicotine from an expensive pipe, is a specimen of civi- 
lized habits that is almost pathetic. 

As a rule schools and colleges teach everything ex- 
cept health. 



Suggestions for the Manual 
Laborer 

3F one is engaged in active physical labor, such as 
farming, mining, heavy factory work or in any 
vocation where the muscles are in constant use 
they can safely partake of these menus as given without 
change or modification. And there may be cases where 
extreme physical labor or activity is being performed 
such as football, athletic contests, iron workers or roll- 
ing mill employees where these menus would need to 
be increased much beyond the proportions herein given. 

The actual necessity for food is governed by three 
fundamental laws : first, age ; second, activity or work, 
and third, the temperature of atmosphere or environ- 
m.ent. If some study is devoted to the suggestions 
herein given and some time devoted to experimenta- 
tion, the student will soon become familiar with his or 
her requirements, measured or determined by age, oc- 
cupation, temperature, the amount of fresh air 
breathed every day, the mental condition, whether dis- 
turbed or tranquil, and feeding themselves will become 
one of the most fascinating studies and duties within 
the scope of their daily employment. 

When one first begins to recognize the great impor- 
67 



tance and wonderful possibilities of scientific feeding, 
they are apt to swing the pendulum of their studies to 
the opposite extreme and make their eating a kind of 
laborious or burdensome process, by weighing their 
foods, endeavoring to secure therefrom a given amount 
of proteids, carbohydrates, fats, etc., etc., according to 
the old dietary standards given by various writers or 
in government bulletins. This is all a mistake, for the 
reason that Nature demands that the animal body in 
order to be healthy take a certain amount of activity 
every day and breathe a certain amount of air. These 
things are to the human body what the automatic gov- 
ernor is to the steam boiler. If we do not eat enough, 
Nature gives us the signal of hunger, and if we slightly 
overeat, we consume or work off the surplus by labor, 
and the residue or poisons resulting from the labor are 
carted to the lungs by the circulation and burned or 
consumed by the oxygen we breathe. Therefore, if we 
would use reasonable care in regard to selections and 
quantity, and take a reasonable amount of exercise 
and fresh air, the body would become an automatic 
self-adjusting machine so far as quantity is concerned. 



68 



Balanced Menus 

FOR THE MANUAL LABORER 
SPRING AND SUMMER 

BREAKFAST: 

Choice of Peaches, Bananas or Prunes, 

Egg Float, 

Few Mixed Nuts, 

Steamed Whole Wheat with Cream. 

Milk. 

LUNCHEON: 

Baked Sweet Potato or 

Boiled Corn with Peanuts or Peanut Butter, 

I or 2 Fresh Tomatoes, 

I or 2 Very Ripe Bananas, with Cream, 

3 or 4 Dates — a Glass or two of Milk. 

DINNER: 

Choice Green Beans, Peas, Carrots or Boiled Corn, 

Corn Bread and Butter, 

I or 2 Glasses of Buttermilk, 

Nuts, Dates and Cream Cheese (Philadelphia Brand). 

69 



FOR THE MANUAL LABORER 
FALL AND WINTER 

BREAKFAST: 

2 Very Ripe Bananas with Cream, 

}i Dozen Dates or 2 or 3 Figs, 

Whole Wheat Bread or Crackers, with Peanut Butter, 

Milk. 

LUNCHEON: 

Baked Beans or Lentils, 

Whole Wheat Bread or Oilman's De Luxe Crackers, 

with Peanut Butter (Beech Nut preferred), 

Few Dates and Nuts, 
Two Glasses Milk (Buttermilk preferred). 

DINNER: 

Choice of Baked Potato, Turnips, Carrots or Cabbage, 

Few Mixed Nuts, 

Corn Bread and Butter, 

One or Two Glasses Milk. 

70 



Suggestions for the Sedentary 
Worker 

^W^ HE following menus are suggestive. They are 
^Fl meant to give the reader some idea in regard 
to selecting, combining and proportioning food 
according to the natural laws governing food chemistry 
or chemical harmony and physiological chemistry ; that 
is to say, the requirements of the body. 

In order to secure the best results from these menus 
every person must use some judgment or common 
sense. If they are engaged in a sedentary occupation, 
such as office work, clerkship, teaching, studying, or 
employed in any of the various arts or trades that re- 
quire considerable thought and only an ordinary amount 
of activity, they should partake of but two meals per 
day, that is, omitting the luncheon meal entirely with 
the exception of a bit of fruit, salad, or a glass of milk. 

There is an ample amount of nutrition contained in 
the breakfast and dinner menus to meet all the re- 
quirements of those engaged in the above-named oc- 
cupations. 



71 



Balanced Menus 

FOR THE SEDENTARY WORKER 
SPRING AND SUMMER 

BREAKFAST: 

Strawberries or Peaches, with 

Egg Float, 

2 or 3 Tablespoons Nuts, 

4 or 5 Diet Wafers (O. B. Gilman's) or 

Unfired Wafers with Peanut Butter, 

I or 2 Glasses Water. 

LUNCHEON: 

Berries or Cantaloupe, 

Baked Potato or i or 2 Ears Boiled Corn, 

Glass of Buttermilk. 

DINNER: 

Fresh Peas or Boiled Corn, 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad with Dressing, 

Unfired Wafers and 

Beech Nut Peanut Butter, 

Cantaloupe or Marshmallow Pudding. 

Milk 

72 



FOR THE SEDENTARY WORKER 
FALL AND WINTER 

BREAKFAST: 

Soaked Prunes or Very Ripe Banana with Cream, 

One Egg, 

2 or 3 Unfired Wafers, Beech Nut Peanut Butter, 

2 or 3 Dates, 

Glass of Milk. 

LUNCHEON: 

Spinach or Green Salad, 
Unfired Wafers or Corn Bread, Peanut Butter. 
Glass or Two Milk (Buttermilk preferred). 

DINNER: 

Cream of Corn, 
Gilman's Whole Wheat Crispies, 

Baked Sweet or White Potato, 
Fruit Salad with Whipped Cream, 

I or 2 Tablespoons Nuts, 

Philadelphia Brand Cream Cheese, 

Figs or Raisins, 

Glass of Milk. 

73 



The Family Scrapbook 

FOOD AND AMIABILITY 
^7^^ HE housewife controls the food, the food con- 
Vj. trols digestion, digestion controls amiability, 
and amiability controls, to a very large extent, 
the happiness of the home. 

THE KITCHEN RUT 

All people, especially women, are gamblers ; cer- 
tainty is stale and uninteresting; chance or uncertainty 
is fascinating; it has made civilization. Don't drop 
into a kitchen rut. Take a chance every meal with 
some new simple combination of natural food and watch 
the effects on daddy and the children. Fortify yourself 
with the reasons why, then take a chance on abolishing 
conventionalities. 

GIVE A CHILD A CHANCE 
The mind of a child is merely a receptacle that re- 
ceives impressions from its surroundings. Nearly all 
impressions are made and put into this receptacle by 
what the child sees and hears. Many a child is made 
cowardly and cringing by suppression — made to think 
that it is in some way inferior, by making it act ac- 
cording to other people's wishes instead of its own. 

74 



All government, outside of love, is merely an exhi- 
bition of brute force. The child soon learns this, and 
it is not elevated a bit by the discovery. 

Give a child a chance, let its imagination run riot, let 
the snake it saw, be as long as a fence rail and as big 
around as "this." Imagination, which is merely a form 
of exaggeration, is the parent of poetry, music, art, and 
nearly all the beautiful things in the world. 

The child's big snake is a Brooklyn bridge, or a fly- 
ing machine in embryo. Teach your child integrity, 
but let its mind have reign. 

All children are little savages. They take a kind 
of primitive delight in punishing things. They will kill 
bugs, ants, birds, rabbits and even punish kittens and 
puppies, until this desire is overcome by affection for 
these animals. Love, therefore, is the great civilizer. 
The first heart throb of affection marks in a child the 
boundary line between instinctive savagery and human 
civilization. The child should be trained as early as 
possible to love something, as natural cruelty disap- 
pears at the same ratio that love and mercy are de- 
veloped. 

THE FAULT-FINDING MOTHER 

Many a home is made unhappy, and the family 
finally scattered forth with but few tender memories, 
by a fussy, fault-finding wife or mother. 

Most women, in their limited environment, take 
things too seriously. They drop into the habit of 



worrying over everything. Their worry finds expres- 
sion in language criticising others. This makes them 
disagreeable. All people who find fault lay the blame 
on someone else, and if the "someone else" be a grown- 
up, they fight back and find some fault themselves. 
If they are children and afraid to talk back, fear, 
anger and injustice chills natural affection, makes the 
mother whom they would worship, under favorable con- 
ditions, seem unjust and, by comparison, inferior to 
other mothers. Under these continued influences, chil- 
dren begin to seek their pleasures away from home, and 
the family becomes scattered, dissipated and broken 
up, all on account of mere trifles. 

In every so-called disagreeable thing some good can 
be found if we will search for it. 

When it is raining and gloomy the countless mil- 
lions of atoms of dust are laid and the air is purer than 
on a beautiful day. 

Every flash of lightning burns miasma and poisonous 
gases that float in the air. 

When the wind is filling your eyes with dust, it is 
taking the lighter atoms into space, and the reflection 
of the sun upon these billions of floating motes makes 
the blue sky, otherwise the void above would be a black 
abyss. 

The child whose body and brain is most active, who 
is into everything, who gives the mother most trouble, 
as a rule, gives back more comfort when it is grown, 
for the childish mischief is merely a bubbling over of 

78 



surplus energy that makes civilization and history in 
later years. 

HOW TO SELECT A HUSBAND 

If you were trying to decide, some leap year, between 
two men, as to their amiability and morality, and all 
the evidence were in, except their habits of eating, 
and you found that one, took ham and hot cofifee for 
breakfast, beef and beer for luncheon, and pork, pota- 
toes and pie for dinner, while the other chap fed upon 
golden grains, vegetables, crisp salads, nuts from the 
land of the orange blossom, milk, eggs, honey and 
luscious fruits whose color and perfume "turns the 
fancy lightly to thoughts of love," which one would 
impress you as making the best husband? 

DEMOCRACY OF THE DINING TABLE 

Democracy of the dining table should be a family 
pride. The table is a place to assemble, a place of 
good cheer, a place to cultivate good manners, to cul- 
tivate hospitality, unselfishness, a place to forget the 
worries of the day, a place to compare notes, to tell 
all that has happened to each and every one; pride and 
instinct bid us be at our best at the family board. 

For all the grown folks to exercise their rights and 
privileges in these things, and "don't" and suppress the 
child, is to inoculate its mind with the poison of rebel- 
lion, injustice and brute force. 

Every child in the beginning is a little savage. It 
77 



may scratch, fight, bite and throw things around for 
awhile, but it will soon begin to imitate those around 
it; the example, therefore, should be the best. This 
is what we call civilization. 

POOH, POOH! 

Don't "pooh, pooh" a thing because it is new. Re- 
member all great inventions have been "pooh, poohed" 
by the alleged wise ones. Morse's telegraph was 
"pooh, poohed" on the floor of that "most dignified 
body on earth." Great men said, over their official 
signatures, when the first railroad was proposed, that 
an engine running through space at a greater velocity 
than 1 8 miles an hour would kill every living thing for 
a mile on both sides of the road. 

If you have a new idea yourself, thank the Lord, 
and go to work on it. If someone else hands you a 
new idea, thank him. 

If somebody says that foods can be so administered 
as to cure disease, don't pucker up your mouth. 

THREE LAWS OF HEALTH 

The natural laws of health demand three things, 
viz. : a certain amount of fresh oxygen, a certain 
amount of exercise and a certain amount of nutrition 
every day. If we violate any of these laws, there is 
a time coming when we will have to pay the penalty. 

The first thing, after arising every morning, one 
should throw up their window and exercise vigorously, 

78 



filling the lungs to their utmost capacity every third 
or fourth breath. From three to four minutes should 
be devoted to this exercise night and morning. 

Ten minutes a day devoted to obeying two primary 
laws of health are very little out of each 24 hours, and 
no person can afford to be in such a hurry as to disre- 
gard these rules. 

THE SPEED LIMIT PENALTY 

From the cradle to the coffin is very much like any 
ordinary journey, the faster you go, the quicker you 
get there. 

BATHING 

Hydrotherapy has never received the attention it de- 
serves. It should be made one of the health sciences. 
A person in normal health should take a cleansing bath, 
with very little soap, from two to three times a week, 
according to vocation and temperature of the atmos- 
phere, and a cold shower or a sponge bath every morn- 
ing after exercising, followed by a vigorous rub down. 

The hot bath may be useful as a remedy, but to the 
person in normal health it is devitalizing. 

CARE OF THE EYES 
Immerse the face in cool clean water. Open the 
eyes, turning them in every direction as far as pos- 
sible. Keep them under water as long as the breath 
can be comfortably held. Then place the thumb be- 

79 



neath and the forefinger above the eyeball, pressing 
gently and giving the eyeball a rotary massage. 

This massage should be given every morning just 
after arising and every night just before retiring. 

This system of treatment has a tendency to round 
out and prevent the flattening of the eyeball, which 
causes impaired vision. 

The writer is personally acquainted with a man well 
up in the seventies, who says he has practiced this 
system of sight culture for forty-five years, and his 
vision is as keen and his eye as clear as when he was 
a youth. 

WOMEN SMOKING 

The desire for stimulation comes along with idleness. 
The woman who has nothing to do and for the life of 
her, can't find any useful way to employ her time, 
thereby acknowledges that she is useless to the world, 
is very liable to take to cigarettes, perhaps liqueurs 
and so forth. 

No habit with which the twentieth century woman 
is liable to become afflicted is quite so demoralizing as 
smoking. It tells not only of her gradual moral retro- 
gression, but of her mental and physical decline. 

KITCHEN ECONOMY 

The kitchen is the greatest avenue for leakage or 
waste there is in the average home. 

The cook is usually not interested in paying the bills 
80 



and there is something in human nature that bids us 
all spend other people's money with reckless extrava- 
gance. 

W^ith good management there need be no waste in 
the kitchen. 

Tender peas should be cooked and served in the pod. 
The pod contains more nourishment than the pea. 

Left-over or soured cream can be whipped into butter 
with an ordinary Dover Egg Beater in two minutes. 

Left-over milk can be "^'set" aside to clabber or thicken 
and whipped into buttermilk. 

The majority of vegetables and potatoes can be 
thoroughly cleansed and scraped instead of removing 
a thick peeling. 

These are merely hints. The one who pays the bills 
should look the kitchen food supply over three times 
a day. 

HOW TO SELECT FRUIT 

Fruit should be selected according to its quality, not 
its appearance. 

Its quality should be determined: 

First, by its comparative size, whether or not it ma- 
tured on the tree or in a sub-cellar equipped for the 
purpose of ripening immature fruit. 

Second, its state of ripeness. Fruit is at its best when 
it is "dead ripe." When in this condition the natural 
fruit sugar is thoroughly developed, and it is both 
food and a digester of other foods. 

81 



DOCTORS, DISEASE AND BACTERIA 

Every now and then the doctors give the pubHc 
warning of the danger from bacteria that lurks in un- 
cooked food. 

The question of bacteria, or micro-organism, as the 
cause of disease, is disputed by many of the world's 
ablest scientists. They claim that these forms of life 
are the results, not the cause, of disease, with which 
theory the writer is inclined to agree. However, be 
this as it may, we know that the highest physical 
specimens of anthropoidal life have been built up from 
natural food without the use of fire. 

The doctors know, or should know, that all the di- 
gestive juices, or solvents of the body, are highly 
germicidal. The saliva is an alkaloid, the gastric juice 
is an acid, the bile is an alkaloid, the pancreatic juice 
is an acid, and so on. 

The doctors know, or ought to know, that if we 
select, combine and proportion our food properly, and 
eat it correctly, that no form of bacteria could live in 
the stomach one minute. If they are so much con- 
cerned about our health, why don't they tell us these 
secrets. Is it possible that the doctor is willing to see 
us perish for want of simple information that he has 
snugly tucked away in his healthorium encyclopedium. 

Now, let us be fair but honest, the doctors don't 
know anything about these things. Their books, 
schools, colleges and clinics don't teach them. They 
teach drugs, bugs, bacteria, and disease, instead of 

82 



health, Hfe and laughter ; and again, why should the 
doctor be warning us against things that make us ill? 
His warning does not ring true because he thrives upon 
disease. 

THE BOSS 

The head of the family, the boss, very often means 
the bear. 

Men inherit the heliocentric idea. It is as easy for 
them to believe that everything about the home should 
be made to conform to their requirements as it was 
for the ancients to believe that the sun, moon and stars 
were made for their special accommodation. 

THE EFFECT OF STIMULANTS 

Tea, cofifee, liquor, beer, tobacco and the various 
sedative drugs all have a common effect upon the human 
body. They stimulate, that is to say, they poison, or 
to be more explicit, the whole system is excited and 
thrown into unnaturaJ activity, in its effort to expel 
these poisons. This false heart action releases energy 
that has been stored up in the cell. The energy store 
house is thereby robbed, and when the excitement is 
over the physical pendulum swings to the other ex- 
treme, and in the language of the day, we are depleted, 
"dopey, down and out." 

People who defend the use of stimulants often point 
to aged people who have taken some of these poisons 
for many years. They forget to remember or count 
the dead ones. 

83 



OVER-TALKING 

There is one human habit which civilization has not 
yet overcome, and that is the disposition of people to 
talk about themselves. Bragging about their accom- 
plishments, soliciting sympathy by telling their troubles. 

To burden our friends with a recitation of our woes, 
especially our physical ills, displays mental weakness, 
a childish bid for sympathy, coarse manners and bad 
breeding. In addition to this it augments our own 
troubles, fills the very atmosphere as well as the mind 
of our companions with disease-breeding thought. 

Talk health, think health, act health, study health, 
and obey health laws, and you will be healthy, besides 
you will radiate health and help others to be healthy. 

Forget self for awhile. Do something for others. 
In the final analysis of human affairs all happiness must 
come from the esteem in which our fellows hold us. 
You cannot be unhappy or unhealthy if you are loved 
by many people. 

You cannot be loved by people unless you earn their 
esteem. 

You cannot draw happiness from a world bank in 
which you have made no deposit. 



84 



Soups 



€HE following recipes for soup are given, not be- 
cause I recommend its use, but because soup 
has become a staple part of the ordinary diet, 
and experience shows that it is always better in any 
reform work to proceed on lines of least resistance. In 
order to promote digestion and preserve the integrity of 
the teeth, our food should be taken in hard or solid 
forms exactly the opposite of soup. This would induce 
thorough mastication and delegate to the teeth, instead 
of a pot, the delightful task of making soup. 

The harmful effects, however, of the soup taking 
habit may be partially overcome by taking it slowly with 
some very hard cracker that requires thorough mastica- 
tion. 

Since soups will be used, the following recipes are 
given as the best articles from which they can be 
made. 

SOUPS UNCOOKED 

CEREAL SOUP 

Use half pound of flaked grain, preferably oat- 
flakes. Cover with warm water and soak several hours, 
or over night, then put through a sieve, which will 
make a thick cream for the body, adding milk and a 

85 



little cream to bring to the consistenc)^ desired, and 
flavor with the juice of fresh tomatoes, a little pulp of 
tender corn, scraped from the cob, or puree of peas ; 
add a pinch of salt and a piece of butter; warm before 
serving. 

NOTE: The above recipe can be used to form the 
body or cream of any kind of soup, using any flavor 
desired. 

CREAM OF CORN 

Mash a can of sweet corn through a strainer. Add 
sufficient cream and a little milk to bring to the con- 
sistency desired ; add salt to taste. 

Place in a double boiler on back of the stove to warm 
before serving. 

Cream of pea can be made as per recipe above, sub- 
stituting canned peas for canned corn. 

If a cooked soup is desired, use the same recipes by 
allowing to come to a boil before serving, using suf- 
ficient milk and cream to bring to the consistency de- 
sired. 

COOKED SOUPS 

This book being designed to contribute the greatest 
good to the greatest number of people, and soup being 
a staple article of diet that no reform is likely to 
abolish, it is my purpose to give the housewife some 
instructions in regard to producing the most wholesome 



and nutritious combinations that can be made in this 
class of edibles. 

CREAM OF TOMATO 

To one quart can of tomatoes, add an equal amount 
of water. Boil until the whole is reduced to the original 
amount (one quart). Mash thoroughly through a fine 
sieve. Place the strained tomato on the fire until it 
again comes to a boil, adding a scant teaspoon of baking 
soda, stirring vigorously, then add half teaspoon of 
sugar, a little pepper and about two tablespoons of 
thoroughly dissolved cornstarch, stirring constantly. 

Put one quart of unskimmed milk in double boiler, 
allow to come to a boil, add this to the tomato mixture, 
while both are at the boiling point. Bring to a boil 
again, stirring constantly. Butter the size of a walnut 
and salt to taste, serve. 

This is one of the most delicious of all cream soups, 
if properly made, but much care should be exercised 
in mixing and seasoning. 

CREAM OF CORN AND TOMATO 

This delicious combination can be made by thoroughly 
cooking a can of corn, putting through a sieve and add- 
ing to the cream of tomato as above recipe. 

CREAM OF CORN 

Cook until tender, one can of sweet corn. Mash 
thoroughly through a sieve. Add about three cups of 
milk and a piece of butter size of a walnut. Allow 

87 



to boil, and stir in one teaspoon of thoroughly dissolved 
cornstarch. Just before serving, salt and pepper to 
taste. 

CREAM OF CELERY 

Clean thoroughly the outer pieces and tops of celery. 
Cut in bits, cover with water and boil until tender. 
Put through a sieve, add amount of milk desired (but 
not enough to reduce the flavor too much), thicken 
with cornstarch to the consistency desired. 

Just before serving, season with butter, pepper, salt 
and a dash of celery salt. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS, BEAN, PEA OR LENTIL 

Cream of asparagus, bean, pea or lentil can be made 
according to recipe for cream of celery (omitting cel- 
ery salt). 

CREAM OF RICE OR POTATO 

Cream of rice or potato can also be made as above 
recipes, using onion (a small piece) to flavor the 
potato soup, and a dash of celery salt for the cream of 
rice. 

The group of cream soups herein given are ex- 
ceedingly nourishing, and with some solid or hard 
bread that requires thorough mastication they would 
constitute a sufficient meal for the ordinary worker. 

The cook should exercise great care in mixing, in 
order to prevent the cornstarch or solid substance from 
forming into lumps and the milk from curdling. A 

88 



little patience and experimentation will very soon master 
the art of making these delicious soups. 

PEA, BEAN OR LENTIL (Dried) 

Place in a deep vessel the quantity desired, cover 
with hot water and allow to stand over night, then cook 
until soft. Mash through a sieve. 

To I cup of pulp or puree add about 3 cups of milk, 
allow to boil and stir in one teaspoon of thoroughly 
dissolved corn starch or enough to thicken to the consis- 
tency desired. Season with butter, pepper and salt just 
before serving. 

NOTE : This pulp or puree will keep several days 
in a cool place and is very delicious properly seasoned 
and warmed or browned in an oven. 



80 



Dairy Products and 
Preparations 

SWEET BUTTER 
"jtf ET heavy cream stand until it clabbers or thick- 
y^. ens. Beat with a Dover egg beater until the but- 
ter is separated. After it is churned cover with 
ice cold water, wash, and press out all the milk with a 
spoon. Set on ice until ready to serve. 

Butter can also be made from fresh cream, but re- 
quires more time. There are small churns which can 
be bought for this purpose. 

MILK CUSTARD 

Fill custard cups with rich milk, allow to stand until 
it begins to thicken. Drop in a few raisins and when 
thoroughly coagulated or thickened add a dash of nut- 
meg and serve. 

THE SOUR MILK CURE 

Sour milk is one of the best forms in which animal 
proteids can be taken. Various writers have announced 
to the world during the past few years that sour milk 
(soured with tablets which they sell) destroys the age 
bacteria in the intestinal tract. Professor Metchnikoff, 
who is the father of this theory, seems to have formed 

90 



this conclusion by observing that the chief diet of the 
very aged peasants of Bulgaria, was sour milk. 

Knowing something of the mind and its imaginings, 
and how long it has searched for the "Eldorado," and 
how readily people accept any theory that promises 
to prolong their lives, and how easy it is for one to 
become famous telling this story which all people de- 
sire to hear, I am of the opinion that the sour milk 
cure, for old age, will soon take its place in the archives 
of medical superstition along with the lizard-tongue 
and scorpion-blood remedy for fevers that was so 
popular and so very scientific only a few centuries ago, 
and that age of the Bulgarian, French and German 
peasants will be accounted for by the fact that they 
were forced by poverty to live upon a plain diet of 
good simple food, one of which was sour milk. 

I have made many experiments with the various 
commercial tablets for souring milk, and have failed 
to find anything as good as nature. (See recipe below 
for souring milk.) 

CLABBER OR SOUR MILK 
Place a bottle of whole or unskimmed milk in a 
warm place until it thickens or until it is of the con- 
sistency of baked custard. Set on ice immediately, and 
when ready for use pour in bowl and beat with Dover 
egg beater. 



91 



Eggs 



THEIR IMPORTANCE AND PLACE IN 
THE DIET 

€GGS constitute one of the best proteid foods 
known. The white is almost pure albumen, 
readily soluble, easily digested, and contains 
about the same per cent, of moisture as the healthy 
human body. The yolk is composed largely of phos- 
phorous and fat. The whole egg, therefore, is one of 
the best articles in the nitrogenous family of food. 

While eggs are what might be called "year around" 
food, they are of more importance in winter and spring 
than at other seasons of the year. 

When corn, legumes and the large number of tuber 
vegetables are in season, everything the body requires 
can be obtained without the use of any animal pro- 
ducts, but in order to balance the bill-of-fare in winter 
and spring, the egg becomes necessary and occupies a 
place that is difficult to fill by any other article. 

In certain cases of extreme emaciation the egg diet 
has been resorted to, a normal size person taking from 
eighteen to twenty-four per day with spendid results. 
In each case they are best broken one at a time into 
a glass and taken with a little salt. 

92 



EGGS— MILK 

To one pint of milk add one thoroughly beaten egg. 
This is sufficient for an ordinary meal, and being so 
largely composed of proteid matter no other nitro- 
genous food, such as fish, meat, beans, etc., should 
be taken at the same time. 

EGG FLOAT 

WHOLE EGG. — Whip the white and yolk separate- 
ly from 2 to 3 minutes. Add slowly a teaspoon of 
lemon juice, half a teaspoon of sugar, and a tea- 
spoon of heavy cream to the yolk ; then add the 
whipped white to the yolk mixture. 

If properly mixed, this will stand up like whipped 
cream. This makes a delicious dressing for salads 
and fruits. 

NOTE, — Any fruit juice can be used in place of 
lemon. 

Fruit and egg float constitutes almost an ideal meal 
taken in the following proportions : Two or three ripe 
peaches, or an equivalent amount of soaked evaporat- 
ed peaches or apricots, eaten with two eggs prepared 
as recipe above. 

EGG MILK SHAKE 
Put about two tablespoons crushed ice in a glass, 
add I tablespoon maple syrup, i egg and ^ cup of 
milk. Shake thoroughly and strain into a glass for 
serving. A little grated nutmeg or cinnamon can be 
added if desired. 

93 



A lemonade shaker can be purchased at any kitchen 
furnishing place. 

CREAM EGGS 

Whip thoroughly three or four egg whites, adding 
slowly a cup of cream. Slightly flavor with nutmeg 
or vanilla. This makes a delicious sauce to use over 
any kind of crushed fruit or berries. 



94 



Grain and Grain Products 






HEAT, corn, oats, rice, rye, barley and millet 
are collectively called grains. 

WHEAT originated along the coast of the 
Mediterranean Sea from a grass known as Aegilops- 
Ovala. It was brought to a state of great perfection 
in the fertile fields of the Caesars. 

CORN, or Maize, is thought to be a native American 
plant, but it is not. It is from the genus Maydeae, and 
the name maize seems to have been used by the an- 
cients to describe a grass called Zea or Z-Mays. 

RICE originated in India from a grass called Omza- 
Saxiva, several centuries before the Christian era. It 
was the staple article of food during that period of 
her civilization that has crowned that country as the 
seat of philosophy and learning. 

BARLEY is a native product of Western Asia. It 
originated from a grass, the genus Hordeum. It took 
its name, no doubt, from a bread called Bara bread, or 
barley bread. It was a staple article of food in Asia 
and Asia Minor many centuries before the Christian 
era. 

OATS was a prodigal growth of Norway and north- 
ern England, and came from a wild grass known as 

!)5 



Avena sativa. For many centuries it was used as a 
sort of fodder or roughness for animals, but under 
the cultivation of the thrifty, but ancient, Scotch, the 
oat was dignified as the principal cereal food of that 
sturdy race. 

RYE originated along the shores of the Black and 
Caspian Seas, and is the hardiest of all the cereal 
plants. Rye, as a food, comes nearer meeting the re- 
quirements of our present civilization than any other 
grain product. Its chief virtue consists in the limited 
amount of starch and great amount of cellulose fibre 
it contains. 

The above named grains, taken collectively, consti- 
tute the majority and most universally used articles of 
human food. Inasmuch as they are composed so large- 
ly of starch, modern science is pointing out the fact 
that the over-eating of grain and grain products or the 
over-consumption of starch is responsible for a great 
majority of human ills, therefore, under the guidance 
of the food scientist the national bill of fare will un- 
doubtedly undergo a very marked change within the 
next decade or two. 

Grain, therefore, was not the food of primitive man. 
It has, however, become the great staple for two rea- 
sons. 

First, because it is farinaceous and will keep through 
from season to season, hence can be drawn upon at all 
times of the year as a staple. 

Second, because it can be prepared in almost a limit- 
96 



less number of ways, hence has been made to appeal 
to the appetite under all conditions of age and climate. 

Coincident with the universal use of grain as the 
staple article of diet have come digestive disorders, 
common to all civilized countries, that can be traced di-' 
rectly to the excessive use of cereal starch. 

The recipes for the preparation of grain given in this 
work contemplates their limited use, at least reducing 
the quantity that is likely to be eaten by the average 
person to the minimum, by preparing them in a sim- 
ple but natural way. 

WHEAT, OATS AND RYE occupy about the same 
place in the chemistry of food, therefore, they can be 
grouped in equal proportions or prepared separately 
according to the following recipes : 

TO PREPARE UNCOOKED 
Take the quantity desired for two or three meals. 
Place in a deep vessel, cover with boiling water and al- 
low to stand from 6 to lo hours, or over night. 

Thoroughly drain and serve in very small portions 
with cream and a dash of salt or cream and sugar, 
nuts or nut butter and a pinch of salt. 

TO PREPARE COOKED 
Place the quantity desired in a double boiler, and al- 
low to simmer several hours, or over night. Serve in 
very dainty portions with cream and nuts, or if some- 
thing sweet is desired a bit of maple sugar, dates, figs 
or raisins can be used. 

97 



This method of preparation makes these grains much 
superior to any of the prepared breakfast foods made 
from the same stock. 

First, prepared in this manner, the grain contains all 
the gluten and cellulose (bran) fibre which is absolutely 
necessary to produce proper alimentation and, there- 
fore, prevent intestinal congestion (constipation). 

Second, grains taken in this manner necessitate ex- 
cessive mastication which, in addition to all of its other 
virtues, prevents over-eating and consequent starch 
congestion and poisoning. 



08 



Flaked Grains 

WHEAT, RYE, OATS AND BARLEY 
TO SERVE DRY 

LACE quantity desired in oven and slightly dry 
or crisp. Serve with cream and grated nuts 
or cream and maple sugar or cream and honey 
or cream, dates, figs and raisins. 



^ 



AS A PORRIDGE 

The above grains can be made into a delicious 
porridge, as follows : 

Place the quantity desired in a covered dish or deep 
vessel, barely cover with hot water, and allow to stand 
several hours or over night. Stir so that all grains 
will become thoroughly moistened. Serve with cream 
and sugar, or the same combination as given above. 

These grains should be served in dainty portions. 

CHRISTIAN'S LAXATIVE CEREAL FLAKES 
These flakes can be prepared and served in the same 
manner as any of the flaked grains named in the fore- 
going recipes. 

This product is prepared after a special formula, 
and especially designed to give to the body the best 
balanced and proportioned food that can be made from 

99 



grains. It is also especially recommended as a natural 
remedy for intestinal congestion or constipation. 

These flakes are a natural grain product in no way 
medicated. Their tendency is to normalize and regulate 
intestinal activity, thereby increasing the digestibility 
of other foods with which they may be eaten. 

VIENO BREAKFAST 

To three cups of boiling water add a pinch of salt 
and one cup "Vieno Food," stirring constantly and boil 
briskly from five to eight minutes. Serve with cream 
and sugar if desired. 

WHY I HAVE SELECTED O. B. OILMAN'S 
DE LUXE CRACKERS 

Bread is the standard of American food products. 

Owing to modern milling methods, harmful things 
used in baking and the general practice of food adulter- 
ation, I have decided to select some cereal article 
which I know to be the best, and which is entitled to 
a place in a standard literary work on food hygiene, 
and call it by name and incorporate it in the following 
recipes. 

I have selected for this purpose O. B. Oilman's 
De Luxe Crackers. 



100 



Bread 

^^f^READ or cooked grain products have become so 
^|[^ universal in demand that a work hke this, whose 
purpose it is to instruct the housewife in the 
best methods of selecting and preparing food, would 
not be complete without som.e recipes for preparing 
cooked bread. The recipes given below have been 
selected and tried out as the most practical, simplest 
and best formulas for bread to be made in the aver- 
age home. 

UNLEAVENED GEMS 
To one stiffly beaten egg add a cup of ice cold milk. 
Slowly stir in a cup of Christian's Cereal Meal, and last 
add ^i cup of grated nuts and salt to taste. Pour bat- 
ter into hot gem pans and bake in very hot oven. If 
nuts are omitted use ly^ cups meal. 

CORN BREAD 

To the required amount of coarse white corn meal 
add just a pinch of salt and enough sweet milk and 
cream (or top of bottle) to make a moderately stiff 
batter. Make into small cakes half an inch thick. Put 
on a buttered griddle. When brown on both sides put 
in oven for a few minutes and serve hot. 

101 







Peanut Butter 

WING to the fact that peanuts are one of our 
most important food products, and that there 
are so many brands of peanut butter on the gen- 
eral market, and that peanuts grade from a very infe- 
rior to an extremely superior quality, both in taste and 
nutritive properties, it becomes necessary for the guid- 
ance of my readers to name some particular brand or 
kind of peanut butter, which investigation and chemical 
analysis have proven to be pure and wholesome, hence 
worthy of a place in a literary v/ork intended to guide 
the housewife in selecting only the best. In view of 
these facts, I have used in the following recipes a brand 
of peanut butter known as "Beech-Nut." 



102 



Sandwiches 

THEIR USES AND ABUSES 
^JIP^HE sandwich has become such a conspicuous 
VI thing in the menu of civihzed people that it 
deserves special mention and a few suggestions 
gleaned from long experience. 

New York City consumes, every twenty-four hours, 
enough pies to cover two acres of ground if they were 
placed singly, side by side. Every pie is merely a big 
sandwich. 

The abuse of sandwiches in this form is not so 
much because they are impure, but because they are 
consumed mostly at the quick lunch counter, not masti- 
cated, and w^ashed down with milk, water, tea or coffee. 
There are, however, a great number of good sand- 
wiches that deserve certain mention in this work. 

The sandwich is almost limitless in form. The fill- 
ing can be made of an infinite variety and combination 
of things, and the outside, or binder, can be made of 
any form of bread, whole wheat, rye, or corn bread, 
unfired wafers or the whole-wheat cracker, such as 
O. B. Oilman's varieties. 

The following recipes are, therefore, merely sug- 
gestions for a few varieties that have been tested and 
tried out. 

103 



CREAM CHEESE, DATE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Spread the bread or cracker with Philadelphia brand 
cream cheese, a layer of thinly sliced date or fig butter, 
and a dash of grated nuts. Cover the other piece of 
bread with cheese, and press both firmly together. O. 
B. Oilman's "wheat crispies or wheat puffs" make a 
delicious binder for this filling. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SANDWICHES 

To one tablespoon cottage cheese add one teaspoon 
thick cream. Mix well and with a dash of grated nuts 
spread between whole-wheat bread or unfired crackers. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES 

Crisp a few slices of cucumber, then dry and dip in 
Hygeia dressing, and place between unfired wafer or 
whole- wheat (De Luxe) crackers, spread with peanut 
butter. ("Beech-Nut" preferred.) 

NASTURTIUM SANDWICHES 
Place a few of the yellow petals and one leaf be- 
tween buttered bread or cracker. Dressing can be 
used though it is unnecessary, as the nasturtium pos- 
sesses a distinctive pungency of its own. 

These are novel and very delicious when the flowers 
and leaves are gathered fresh from the garden. 

CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Use equal parts of American cheese and grated 
protoid nuts, moisten with heavy sweet cream or olive 

104 



oil, season with a little salt, and place between unfired 
wafers or whole- wheat (De Luxe) crackers, spread 
with dairy or "Beech-Nut" peanut butter. 

MAPLE CREAM SANDWICHES 

To one-half cup of finely shaved maple sugar add 
one-half cup grated nuts (protoid nuts preferred). 
Mix all to a paste with thick sweet cream, and spread 
between crackers or bread. 

MEXICAN SANDWICHES 
Pour over half cup of grated pecan nuts, an equal 
amount of melted Edam cheese. Add a pinch of pa- 
prika and salt to taste. Spread between any whole- 
wheat bread or crackers. O. B. Oilman's "wheat 
crispies" are especially good for this. 

ANCHOVY AND LETTUCE SANDWICHES 
Remove bones of two or three anchovies. Chop fine, 
celery hearts with the fish. Cover unfired wafers or 
any wholesome bread or cracker (De Luxe preferred) 
with sweet butter, then with crisp lettuce leaf, dipped 
in dressing, then the fish and celery. Press firmly to- 
gether and garnish with parsley. 

HERRING OR ANCHOVY SANDWICHES 

Wash, skin and remove bones, chop fine with a few 
tender celery hearts or endive. Spread unfired wafers 
or O. B, Oilman's "wheat crispies" with sweet butter 
and place fish and celery between. Press firmly to- 
gether and serve. 

105 



LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Crisp, small leaves of lettuce and dip in Hygeia dress- 
ing. Spread crackers or bread with cream cheese 
(Philadelphia brand), a dash of grated nuts, and just 
before serving put the lettuce between crackers. 

NUT AND RIPE OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Stone and chop fine a few ripe olives. Add equal 
parts of cream cheese and grated nuts. Spread between 
unfired wafers or any whole-wheat crackers. 

SWEET APPLE SANDWICHES 
Cut sweet apples in thin slices, cover with grated nuts 
and spread between buttered whole-wheat or unfired 
wafers. 

RAISIN SANDWICHES 
To one-half cup of finely chopped raisins add one- 
fourth cup grated nuts and one-fourth cake of fresh 
cream cheese, mix thoroughly and spread between un- 
fired wafers or whole-wheat De Luxe crackers. 

APPLE SANDWICHES 

Peel and grate one tart apple. Mix one-half cup 
cream cheese (Philadelphia brand) with one tablespoon 
thick cream, then add grated apple, flavor with nutmeg. 
Spread between crackers or whole-wheat bread. 



106 



Cream Cheese 

^■^ HE conversion of milk casein into cheese was a 
\f I discovery of great importance. It made the 
best of animal proteids into a form that could 
be preserved, shipped and commercialized. 

The three most important nutrients in our food sup- 
ply are proteids, fats and carbohydrates. 

The modern fresh cream cheese, in tin foil, when 
unadulterated, is extremely rich in both proteids and 
butter fat, which are decidedly the best form in which 
animal fats and animal proteids can be taken. 

For the protection of the family and to guide those 
who want only the best, T would recommend Philadel- 
phia Brand Cream Cheese. 



107 



^ 



Nuts 

UTS have played such a conspicuous part in 
the development of primitive man that a book 
might be written upon their history and the 
subject not exhausted. It is a fact, much to be re- 
gretted, that the absence of nuts is a conspicuous thing 
now in the conventional or modern bill-of-fare. 

The nut is generally used as a sort of confection or 
delicacy, something to finish up the alleged good dinner 
with, something that could be dispensed with — in fact 
by many it is looked upon as something that ought to 
be dispensed with. 

The nut has fallen into this disgrace because it has 
been used, perhaps, as a part of Course No. 13 and the 
inoffensive nut merely contributed its share toward the 
punishment of its consumer; but owing to its topo- 
graphical position in the general alla-podrida, it was 
heard from oftener than its dozen companions and re- 
ceived all the blame while in all probability it was the 
only decent thing eaten. 

The nut is entitled to the highest place in the menu 
of man, because it is rich in both proteids and fats, two 
of the most important nutrients in the chemistry of 
food. 

108 



Nut proteids and fats drawn from the soil and filtered 
through the bending boughs of southern trees are ob- 
viously superior to animal fats and proteids that have 
come to us through the slaughter of innocent animals 
in filthy abattoirs, and through the gyrations route of 
chemical preservatives, embalming fluids, cold storage, 
and decay. 

BLANCHED ALMONDS 

Removing the outer coating from almonds, which is 
termed blanching, is usually done by pouring hot water 
over them, which releases the rough fibre from the nut, 
making it easy to remove. This process, while more 
convenient, is not the best. 

The right way is to put the nuts into a deep vessel, 
cover them with cold water. Allow them to stand over 
night, when the outer coating can be easily removed, 
then place the nut in an oven until thoroughly dried. 
Prepared in this way, they will be tender, crisp and un- 
impaired in food value. 



109 



Olive Oil 

v^5^ LIVE oil is decidedly the best form of edible fat 
^t^ and probably has a wider utility than anything 
in the line of fats. It is very delicious as an 
article of diet with salads. It is highly recommended 
as a heat-producer or an article of winter food. It is 
readily soluble and digestible, consequently its food 
and fuel value can be quickly drawn upon by the body 
for use in case of extra need for heat and energy. 

Owing to the household importance of olive oil and 
the large number of brands in the market, and the ease 
with which oil can be adulterated, and the difficulty of 
analysis and detection, and especially owing to the fact 
that the author has received thousands of letters asking 
what brand of oil she would recommend, therefore to 
eliminate doubt, insure safety and save trouble, I re- 
commend a brand of olive oil commercially known as 
"Beech-Nut," which is a pure, first pressure, ripe olive, 
French product. 



110 



Salad Dressing 



^W^HE salad has become of so much importance 
VI, in the well-balanced meal and it occupies such 
a conspicuous place in the healthy menu that 
any harmless ingredients that can be used with it that 
will encourage its consumption should be prescribed 
and recommended. 

The conventional salad dressing which contains mus- 
tard, pepper, chemically made vinegar, etc., etc., should 
be religiously avoided for the reason, first, because 
these things of themselves impair good digestion, and, 
second, because they spoil good food. 

The salad dressings made according to the following 
recipes will not only improve the taste and general con- 
sumption of salads, but of themselves constitute excel- 
lent and necessary articles of nutrition. 

THE CHRISTIAN SALAD DRESSING 

Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs. Whip 
the yolks until very stiff, add slowly two scant table- 
spoons lemon juice and slowly adding two tablespoons 
"Beech-Nut" Olive Oil, while whipping. Place this on 
ice. 

Thoroughly whip the whites, then whip in from one 
and one-half to two tablespoons powdered sugar, adding 

111 



to this about one cup of whipped cream. Place on ice. 
Whip this into the yolk mixture just before serving. 

MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING 
Break two egg yolks into a soup plate, add a pinch of 
salt and a dash of red pepper. Beat all (rotary motion) 
with fork and when it begins to thicken, add two tea- 
spoons of lemon juice, slowly beating continually, then 
add oil ("Beech-Nut" Olive Oil) dropping slowly, until 
very thick and creamy. 

There is very little danger of curdling if the eggs 
are strictly fresh and oil added slowly. 

WHIPPED CREAM 

Thick sweet cream, whipped until stiff, slightly sweet- 
ened with powdered sugar makes a delicious dress- 
ing for salads, fruits and jellies and it is especially 
recommended for winter use. As an element of nutri- 
tion cream is very superior, easily digested and contri- 
butes to the body a large amount of heat. 

WHIP CREAM SUBSTITUTE 
Put I teaspoon of Cox's Powdered Gelatine into a 
basin. Dissolve in two tablespoons boiling water. Whip 
until frothy, then add six tablespoons ice cold rich 
cream, one tablespoon sugar and flavor to taste. 

HYGEIA SALAD DRESSING 

To four or five tablespoons of olive oil add two 
teaspoons of lemon juice, one teaspoon of sugar and a 
pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly. 

112 



Olives as Food 

as an article of human food the olive has held a 
conspicuous place for 3,000 years and deserves 
all the fame that has been bestowed upon it. 

The olive branch has come down through the ages 
as a symbol of peace and a wreath of honor. 

The olive is one of the greatest of human nutrients. 
While the green-pickled product has some food value, 
chiefly in its oil, the ripe olive is one of the best 
foods in its class. It contains about 50 per cent, fat, 
10 per cent, carbohydrates and 7 to 8 per cent, pro- 
tein, which puts it in a class by itself. It stands mid- 
way between the fruit and vegetable world, therefore 
cannot be grouped with either. 

The dried ripe olive is bitter and may slightly offend 
the taste in the beginning but when eaten with salads, 
vegetables, or grains, the taste soon accepts its flavor 
and crowns it king of relishes. 

The pickled ripe olive is one of the most dainty 
and delicious of bottled foods. It is far superior to 
the green olive in every respect. Eaten with nuts, 
vegetable or fruit salads it adds a most delicious taste 
and flavor. 

The pickled ripe olive has a wide range of grading. 
113 



their quality depending upon soil, state of ripeness 
when pulled, curing and especially upon the process of 
grading, assorting and methods of handling and 
bottling. 

For those who desire the best of this delicious food, 
I recommend the "Ehmann brand" of ripe olives, which 
have been a conspicuous dish on the writer's table for 
several years. 



114 



Salads 

CELERY— CABBAGE 

CELERY has become one of America's staple 
vegetables. It is justly entitled to a conspicuous 
place on every well-supplied table. Celery con- 
tains very valuable food properties, is especially rich in 
mineral salts, but its most valuable constituent is cel- 
lulose or woody fibre. 

The most serious mistake of the average person is 
concentration of their food. The mill eliminates all 
bran or cellulose from grain, and most people finish 
this process by discarding everything coarse and fibrous 
from their food. 

Intestinal peristalsis requires, in fact demands, that 
a certain amount of cellulose (hay or roughness) should 
be taken with our foods. 

Celery and cabbage supply these in their best and 
most delicious form. 

Both of these articles should be thoroughly trimmed, 
cleansed and allowed to stand in ice cold water an hour 
or two to crisp before serving. 

STUFFED CUCUMBER 
Peel a large cucumber and cut in two inch lengths. 
Remove the seeds, leaving a hollow through the centre. 

115 



Chop fine a little tender celery, a slice of onion, one or 
two ripe olives and a little green pepper. When ready to 
serve, place the cucumber tube on a crisp lettuce leaf 
and fill the cavity with the chopped ingredients. Gar- 
nish with quartered tomatoes and ripe olives. Serve 
with Mayonnaise dressing. 

CELERY, NUT AND APPLE SALAD 

Cut in small pieces a tart apple and tender hearts of 
celery. Serve on lettuce or romaine with a few nut 
meats and dressing or whipped cream. 

STUFFED APPLE SALAD 
Take the number of tart apples desired, scoop out a 
good portion of the centre, then pare them carefully. 
Fill the apple with finely chopped celery hearts, tender 
carrots, a little apple and a few nut meats or grated 
nuts. Serve on lettuce with whipped cream or dressing. 

BANANA AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 
Slice a very ripe banana, then cut in small pieces, a 

little pineapple enough for flavoring, then a few seeded 

raisins and serve all on tender lettuce or romaine with 

a few nuts and dressing. 

Note. — In making fruit salads, one should use acid 

fruits sparingly. Only a small portion for flavoring 

is needed. 

CREAM CHEESE-EGGS 
Press a piece of date firmly around a small nut, 
preferably protoid nuts. Around this, mould "Phila- 

116 



Bl 


^%^ 


^f ^ 


k \ 




w\ 


^K -1 " 


Jm 


^^^^L "^1^ ' 


W^Ji 











delphia brand" cream cheese, to the size and shape of a 
bird's egg. Place these in a nest of tender lettuce 
leaves and garnish with Malaga grapes, cherries, ripe 
olives or tuliped radishes. 

This makes a very attractive, delicious dish. 

CHEESE AND TOMATO SALAD 
Skin and thoroughly chill small tomatoes. When 
ready to serve, cut in eighths (not severing sections) 
and open like a flower on leaves of lettuce. Mash cream 
cheese and season with salt and paprika. Put this 
through a potato ricer and fill with it, each tomato. 
Serve with French or mayonnaise dressing. Garnish 
with slices of green pepper. 

COMBINATION SALAD 

Chop two ripe tomatoes, very small onion, two 
stalks celery and one sweet green pepper without seeds. 
Drain and season with salt and pepper. Place on ice 
and when ready serve on lettuce leaf, with French 
dressing. 

PEAR AND CHEESE SALAD 
Select very ripe pears. Cut in thin slices over crisp 
romaine leaves, sprinkle heavily with grated nuts and 
grated cream cheese (Philadelphia brand). Serve with 
dressing. 

MEXICAN SALAD 
Remove the skin and bones from a small quantity 
of smoked herring. Place this in a salad bowl, lined 

117 



with crisp leaves, add a few leaves of watercress and 
a few slices of green peppers. Garnish with quartered 
tomatoes. Cover with dressing and serve. 

CHEESE SALAD 

Grate a small portion of American cheese over crisp 
lettuce leaves, over that place a few English walnuts, 
garnish with stuffed olives and serve with dressing. 

ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD 

Select large very ripe alligator pears, pare and cut 
in long strips. Pour over this Hygeia salad dressing 
and set on ice until ready for use. Serve on crisped 
Romaine or lettuce leaves and garnish with ripe olives. 
This makes a very delicious salad, if properly pre- 
pared. 

MALAGA GRAPE SALAD 

Open the grapes as little as possible and remove the 
seeds. In each grape put a pecan meat. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves, with cheese eggs and serve with whipped 
cream or dressing. 

TOMATO AND SPINACH SALAD 

Cleanse thoroughly and crisp tender leaves of 
spinach. Place in salad bowl with a few sliced toma- 
toes. Pour over this a salad dressing. Mix well and 
serve. 

CREAM CHEESE AND NUTS 
Cover a layer of "Philadelphia" Brand Cream Cheese 
with pecan meats or protoid nuts. Put a layer of dates 

118 



to the thickness desired, cover the top with pecan meats 
or protoid nuts. Serve very cold with salads. 

STUFFED BANANAS 

Select large bananas, remove a strip of the peeling 
and take out a portion of the inside or meat. Fill the 
space with seeded Malaga grapes, bits of sweet orange 
and a dash of grated nuts. Cover the opening with 
whipped cream. Place on crisp lettuce leaves and 
serve. 

GELATINE FRUIT SALAD 

Dissolve one heaping tablespoon Cox's Powdered 
Gelatine in one cup boiling water, strain into salad 
bowl. Add two very ripe sliced bananas, one- 
half pound Malaga grapes seeded, one large sweet 
orange, a flavor of grated pineapple, three or four 
tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons pistachio or pro- 
toid nuts and a gill of wine, white wine preferred. 
Serve cold. 

ASPARAGUS AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

Cleanse thoroughly and crisp watercress and aspar- 
agus tips. Place a layer of each in a salad bowl, then 
a layer of sliced tomatoes, cover all with dressing and 
serve. 

LETTUCE AND NASTURTIUM SALAD 
Thoroughly cleanse and crisp an equal amount of 
lettuce and nasturtium leaves. Place in a salad bowl. 
Decorate with the nasturtium flower and tiny cheese 

119 



eggs (see recipe for cheese eggs), serve with Hygeia 
Salad Dressing. 

COMBINATION VEGETABLE SALAD 
Line a salad bowl with crisp shredded cabbage. Cover 
this with watercress, a few slices of green pepper and 
a little onion. Pour dressing over all and serve. 

GOLDEN SALAD 

Serve on crisp lettuce, one very ripe banana, sliced 
thin, one-half sweet orange cut in small bits and over 
that grate a small portion of fresh pineapple. Just be- 
fore serving, cover with whipped cream, a dash of 
grated nuts and powdered sugar. 

STUFFED CELERY 

Wash and crisp celery hearts. Mash thoroughly half 
cake fresh "Philadelphia Brand" Cream Cheese, add 
chopped olives (Ehmann ripe olives preferred) and 
grated nuts. Stuff celery just before serving. 

SPANISH SALAD 

Skin and slice the number of tomatoes desired. Serve 
on lettuce or romaine with slices of sweet green pep- 
pers. Garnish with ripe olives. Serve with oil or dress- 
ing. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

Chop fine a little cabbage, fresh tomatoes, green pep- 
per seeds, cucumbers, parsley, radishes and celery. 

120 



Season and fill the pepper. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
dressing. Garnish with ripe olives and salted almonds. 

CELERY, CRESS AND NUT SALAD 
Line salad bowl with cleansed crisp watercress, 
then a layer of chopped celery and Brazil nuts. Serve 
with dressing or oil. 

CHERRY AND MALAGA GRAPE SALAD 
Stone amount of ripe sweet cherries desired, cut in 
half and seed equal quantity of Malaga grapes. Serve 
on crisp lettuce leaf with a dash of grated nuts and 
whipped cream. 

FRUIT AND NUT SALAD 

Cut in half and seed Malaga grapes. Cut into small 
pieces half of a sweet orange, slice one very ripe 
banana, stone and cut in small bits a few dates and 
serve all on a crisp lettuce leaf, with a few nuts and 
whipped cream. 

GRAPE FRUIT AND BANANA SALAD 
Remove seeds and cut in bits a small portion of grape 
fruit, then add a few slices of very ripe banana and 
serve on crisp lettuce leaf with dressing. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 
Remove the centre from tomatoes. Cleanse thor- 
oughly three or four anchovies or any dried fish, re- 
moving bones, fins, etc., ahd cut fine. Chop into small 
particles centres of the tomatoes, a little cabbage, green 

121 



pepper and a flavor of onion. Mix this with the fish or 
anchovies, season and place in tomato shells. Serve on 
lettuce leaves with dressing. 

PEPPER AND TOMATO SALAD 

Skin small tomatoes, partly cut in eighths or quar- 
ters. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. Garnish with a few 
slices of green pepper. Serve with dressing. 

CUCUMBER AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

Slice cucumbers, crisp in cold water. Serve on let- 
tuce or romaine leaves with a few slices of green pep- 
per. Serve with Hygeia Salad Dressing. 

CRESS AND ONION SALAD 

Thoroughly cleanse watercress and a few leaves of 
dandelion. Place in salad bowl with a few slices of 
onion and green pepper. Pour, over all, Hygeia Salad 
Dressing, mix well and serve. 

CELERY AND ENDIVE SALAD 
Cleanse thoroughly an equal am.ount of celery hearts 
and endive, crisp and put in salad bowl with Hygeia 
dressing, mix well and serve. 

APPLE, CELERY AND CRESS SALAD 

Cleanse thoroughly and crisp watercress. Chop fine 
tender celery hearts and tart apple, cover the cress, add- 
ing a few nut meats and serve with dressing. 

CUCUMBER AND ONION SALAD 

Peel and slice the cucumber and onions. Leave both 
in cold water until ready to use. Place on clean crisp 

122 



lettuce leaves. Garnish with small radishes and serve 
with dressing. 

CHEESE SALAD 
Serve grated American cheese on crisp romaine. 
Garnish with ripe olives. Serve with the Christian 
Salad Dressing. 

TOMATO AND CHEESE SALAD 
Skin small tomatoes, cut in quarters (but not all the 
way down). Serve on crisp lettuce leaves and cover 
with grated cheese and dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Remove the heart of a crisp head of cabbage. Cut 
the edge in scallops. Chop fine a little green pepper 
and the cabbage you have removed. Cover this with 
salad dressing and refill the cabbage bowl. Sprinkle 
over this grated cheese. Garnish with ripe olives. 

BANANA NUT SALAD 
Cut very ripe bananas in long thin strips and place 
on crisped romaine leaves. Add a dash of grated or 
whole protoid nuts. Serve with whipped cream. 

PEANUT BUTTER DRESSING 

To one tablespoon peanut butter ("Beech-Nut" 
brand) add five tablespoons of lemon juice and water. 
Mix thoroughly. This makes a delicious dressing for 
fruits or salads. 



123 



Tomatoes 

f^F^ HE tomato seems to occupy a position half way 
"i ^ between fruit and vegetables. It contains very 
valuable food elements and is one of the most 
excellent articles in the salad class. Its principal food 
property is carbohydrate. In addition to this it contains 
a most valuable acid that acts in the nature of a sol- 
vent, which aids in the digestion of other foods. The 
tomato should be used only when thoroughly ripe and 
if the skins are eaten, it should be masticated to infinite 
fineness. 

A beautiful and delicious salad can be made by skin- 
ning the small smooth tomato, chill on ice and cut into 
quarters or eighths, serve on romaine or lettuce and eat 
with whipped cream or salad dressing. 



124 




Succulent Vegetables 

Lettuce Romaine 

Watercress Endive 

Spinach Turnip Tops 

Beet Tops Mustard Tops 

Radish Tops Kale 

Dandelion Cabbage. 
Parsley 

HILE all of these articles contain different 
nutritive properties, they are in reality in the 
same general group. 
Collectively, they average about 94^ per cent, water, 
leaving but little over 5 per cent, solids, therefore, in 
the digestive economy they serve two specific purposes, 
First, they give to the body an exceedingly valuable form 
of mineral salts without which perfect digestion is al- 
most impossible and which can be secured from no 
other source; second, they supply the body with the 
requisite amount of water required by nature for the 
purpose of maintaining good digestion and normalizing 
the general body moisture. 

Such of these articles as can be taken uncooked, 
should be thoroughly cleansed and made fresh and crisp 
by standing in cold water for an hour or two before 

125 



serving, but those that require cooking should be boiled 
or steamed only from 5 to 10 minutes, according to their 
tenderness, and seasoned with butter and salt. Too 
much cooking deistroys the flavor and changes the 
chemistry of their most valuable food properties. 

The habit of using vinegar, pepper, etc., with salads, 
had its origin in the desire for something pun- 
gent. This desire would be thoroughly satisfied if these 
articles were masticated enough to give the taste the 
benefit of the chemical change that takes place when 
their excellent food properties come in contact with 
the saliva. 

Pure apple vinegar is not particularly harmful in 
very small quantities, but the great majority of vine- 
gars, condiments, etc., etc., are compounds of deleteri- 
ous chemicals which are exceedingly harmful both to 
the food with which they are mixed and the digestive 
organism. 

The great majority of vegetables and salads are pre- 
pared after good recipes and formulas which have be- 
come standard because they appeal to the taste and 
satisfy hunger, therefore, the makers of new cook-book 
recipes for preparing these things have led off into 
devious and questionable ways in order to discover new 
things. 

Most of these efforts have failed to improve the ar- 
ticle, but have succeeded in making a lot of trouble for 
the cook and the housewife, and a lot of stomach trouble 
for the family. 

126 



While my recipes for the preparation of food are 
only given where old methods can be improved, the 
principal things I desire to teach are : 

First, Utility. 

Second, Economy. 

Third, The grouping of foods into the most agree- 
able, tasty and chemically harmonious combinations 
that experience and scientific research have revealed. 

Every well balanced meal must contain some form of 
salad. Collectively, green plants are one of the most 
important articles of human nutrition. They are highly 
ornamental, which is a most necessary thing on the 
c ining table ; the water they contain, especially the 
green or chlorophyl, is one of Nature's most valuable 
solvents or digesters. 

The generous use of green salad promotes digestion, 
purifies the blood and gives the body material with 
which to build healthy tissue. 



127 



Preparation of 
Fresh Green Corn 

^■p^ HIS is one of the best articles of food in the 
%f| vegetable kingdom. It contains the purest car- 
bohydrate in its most soluble form. It carries 
about the same per cent, of water as the human body. 
It has enough cellulose to produce healthy peristaltic 
action of the intestinal tract. 

The following suggestions are given to stimulate its 
use and widen its utility as a food. 

FORMULA No. 1 
To Prepare Uncooked. 
Split the rows with a sharp knife, pare oflF the tips of 
the grain and scrape the pulp from the cob with a dull 
instrument. 

Serve with a pinch of salt, cream and grated nuts or 
with cream and a sprinkle of maple sugar. 

This can be slightly heated before serving, if desired. 

FORMULA No. 2 
To Prepare in the Shuck. 
Remove the outer shuck, leaving only two or three 
layers over the grain. Boil in the shuck from ten to 
fifteen minutes. 

128 



Note. — Care should be exercised to not over-cook. 
The corn should be taken from the water the moment 
the immature starch has undergone the first chemical 
change called cooked. When this is done, the cooking 
process is least harmful and destructive of the excellent 
nutritive properties of the grain. 

FORMULA No. 3 

Sun-cooked for Winter use. 

Cut from the cob, tender full-grown corn. Keep in 
the sunshine, protected from insects and dust until 
thoroughly dry. 

Place in cheese-cloth bags for winter use. This can 
be prepared for the table as follows : Wash and place 
the quantity desired in a deep covered vessel, barely 
cover with boiling water. Allow to stand until sof- 
tened. Serve with butter and salt or thin cream and 
a pinch of salt. 

Note. — This can be placed in a double boiler and al- 
lowed to simmer an hour or two, if cooked corn is de- 
sired. 

FORMULA No. 4 

Boil on the cob until barely done. Cut from the cob 
and dry according to Formula No. 3. 



129 



Preparation of 
Fresh Green Peas 

CHIS is one of the most nutritious and delicious 
of all the legume family of foods and while peas 
are more nourishing and quite tasty when eaten 
at a certain state of development, yet, like all other 
legumes, they appeal more keenly to the sense of taste 
when cooked, and when prepared after the following 
formulas the cooking process is least injurious. 

PEAS IN THE POD 

Select of tender green peas the quantity desired, 
wash thoroughly, put in a covered kettle, without re- 
moving from the pod, add a few spoonsful of water, 
just enough to keep from sticking, sprinkle with a little 
salt, add small piece of butter. Cook slowly from 12 
to 15 minutes or until peas are soft, before pods open. 
Serve whole in a covered dish. 

These can be eaten by placing the pod in the mouth 
and pulling it out between the teeth, thus shelling the 
peas and stripping the outer coating or meaty part from 
the pod, which is more nutritious and a better balanced 
food than the peas. 



130 



The Banana as a Food 

^WF^ HE banana is from the Genus Musa Sapientum, 

V^ which is strictly of the vegetable family, and is 

the most universally used food in the world, 

whose area of production is confined to so narrow 

a margin. 

When a banana is ripe enough to be used as food 
it contains about 70 per cent, water, lYz per cent, 
protein, i per cent, fat, and 25 to 30 per cent, carbo- 
hydrates. 

The banana is not fit for food until it is exceedingly 
ripe, which is indicated by small black spots appearing 
on the skin. 

The banana with protoid nuts and mild acid fruit 
constitutes almost a perfect diet, either for the seden- 
tary worker or those engaged in the most strenuous 
labor. 

Thousands of people deprive themselves of this ex- 
cellent article of food because they insist upon eating 
it before it is ripe, and insist upon swallowing it before 
it is masticated. 



131 



Melons— Their Value as Food 



w 



ATERMELONS, muskmelons and the numer- 
ous varieties of cantaloupe may all be grouped 
under the head of melons. 
These articles are in a class by themselves, and oc- 
cupy a position in food chemistry along the border- 
line between fruits and vegetables. They contain about 
90 per cent, water, and from 7 to 10 per cent, carbo- 
hydrates. The water and fruit sugar of the melon is the 
purest form in which these valuable nutrients can be 
taken. More melons and less meat, would do much to 
prevent sunstroke and heat prostrations, purify the 
summer diet and improve the general health. 



132 



The Use of Berries 

COLLECTIVELY, berries occupy a very impor- 
tant place in the natural bill-of-fare. They serve 
certain purposes in the menu, and contain cer- 
tain elements of nourishment that can be secured from 
no other source. 

By the wise provision of nature berries are most 
prolific during the spring and summer, which is the time 
of the year their remedial, preventative and curative 
qualities are most needed. 

All berries should be eaten very ripe and as fresh as 
they can possibly be secured and the nearer they can be 
taken in their natural state the better. If, however, 
they should be slightly wilted or appear inferior they 
make a very beautiful and appetizing dish when crushed 
and served with the stiflfly beaten white of egg and a 
little cream. 

Select very ripe berries of any kind, cleanse thor- 
oughly and serve with grated nuts instead of cream and 
sugar. This combination is very delicious and nourish- 
ing. The oil of the nut has a tendency to neutralize the 
acid while the acid of the berry aids in the emulsion 
and digestion of the nut. 



133 



Fruits 

THEIR PREPARATION AND USE 

w^'RUIT was the natural food of primitive man. 
^mW The history of the anthropoidal race shows that 
^^ the highest specimens of physical life were de- 
veloped on a diet consisting largely of nuts and fruits. 
Aside from the value of fruit as a food it occupies an 
important place as an ornament and an article of deco- 
ration for the table. 

A pyramid of luscious ripe fruit in the center of a 
table makes the American Beauty rose look stale and 
out of place. 

Fruit is Nature's great remedial or curative agent. 
While there is some nourishment in all fruit, yet it 
might be divided into two general classes. 

First, Nutritive and second. Curative. 

Such articles as apricots, peaches, plums, strawber- 
ries, grapes, apples, oranges, grape fruit, figs, prunes 
and nectarines are Nature's best laxative. 

Such articles as cherries, blackberries, raspberries, 
dewberries, quinces, pomegranates and pears act as as- 
tringents and the juices are excellent in cases of chronic 
dysentery or diarrhoea. 

The following group of fruits possess very nutritive 
and highly necessary food properties : Bananas, pears, 

134 



dates, figs, raisins, grapes, apples and the black Cali- 
fornia cherry. 

Pineapple juice is decidedly germicidal and is espe- 
cially recommended in cases of diphtheria or any of the 
so-called germ diseases. 

The banana while classed by nearly all authorities as 
a fruit, is in reality a vegetable. 

SNOW FRUIT 

Cut in bits, apples, oranges, Malaga grapes and ba- 
nanas. Scatter between each layer, fresh grated cocoa- 
nut or protoid nuts and sugar. Serve with whipped 
cream or fruit juice. 

This recipe can be varied or changed according to 
fruit or berries in season, exercising care, however, to 
use only one kind of highly aciduous fruit. 

FRUIT AND NUT MEDLEY 

Slice very ripe bananas, cut in small pieces, sweet 

apple and orange. Put a layer of each in dish until 

filled. Sprinkle between each layer grated protoid nuts 

and sugar. This can be served with cream or fruit 

juices. 

APPLES— OLIVE OIL 

Apples eaten with pure olive oil are not only delicious 
but extremely nutritious and digestible. The acid of the 
apple aiding in the emulsification or digestion of the oil 
and the oil augmenting the digestibility of the apple 
pulp. 

This is especially recommended for a breakfast dish. 
135 



AMBROSIA 

Cut in small bits, and put in layers, oranges, malaga 
grapes and figs. Over this sliced banana, grated fresh 
pineapple and cocoanut. Cover the top well with cocoa- 
nut and decorate with nut meats. 

Sugar should be sprinkled between each layer. 

HOW TO SERVE PINEAPPLES 
Secure a large, extremely ripe pineapple. Peel and 
remove the eyes. Grate, sweeten to taste and serve. 

Note. — Prepared in this way pineapple can be used 
with green salads as a relish or sauce and makes a de- 
licious fruit dessert. 

BANANAS 

Bananas are delicious eaten with heavy cream, dates, 
cream cheese, or nut-butter. Bananas should not be 
eaten until they are very ripe or until black spots appear 
on the skins. 

APPLE FLOAT 

Grate a medium sized apple, whip in two egg whites 
beaten stiff, and serve with cream. 

PERSIMMONS 

The persimmon is one of the most splendid fruits 
known to the science of food chemistry. It contains 
no acid, but is exceedingly rich in fruit sugar. It is 
easily digested, readily soluble and one of the most de- 
licious of all dessert fruits. 

136 



The persimmon with cream is a whole breakfast in 
point of nutrition or an excellent dessert taken at the 
close of a dinner. 

DEHYDRATED OR EVAPORATED FRUIT 

Taking the water from fruit by evaporation is the 
best method of preservation. Dehydration is a natural 
process ; when fruit is exposed to the air and sunshine 
Nature takes up the surplus moisture leaving enough 
native fruit sugar to preserve them indefinitely. 

In preparing evaporated fruit for table use, it is only 
necessary to restore this moisture, which can be done 
by soaking them in pure water a few hours or over 
night. This process reveals the green and faulty pieces 
which can be discarded, while cooking conceals the 
faulty and inferior parts and takes from the fruit its 
delicious freshness and natural flavor. 

STUFFED DATES 
With a damp cloth, cleanse thoroughly firm black 
dates. Make a cut the entire length of the date, remove 
the stone and fill the cavity with Pecan meats, protoid 
Brazil nuts or cream cheese. Shape in original form, 
roll in grated nuts or granulated sugar. 

Pulled figs are very delicious stuflfed and prepared as 
above recipe. 

FIG MARMALADE 
Select and grind one-half pound figs, thoroughly mix 
into them one cake of cream cheese, (Philadelphia 
brand). 

137 



This is delicious eaten with very ripe bananas, or 
whole wheat, or unfired crackers. 

DATE BUTTER 

Remove stones and mash one-half pound of black 
dates. Add one or two tablespoons boiling water to 
soften, and reduce to a pulp with potato masher. Add 
one-quarter pound of peanut butter ("Beech-Nut" pre- 
ferred) and one-half cake of cream cheese; mix thor- 
oughly. 

This is delicious with bananas and all kinds of sand- 
wiches. 

This will keep several days in a cool place. 

SOAKED PRUNES 

^\ Cleanse thoroughly and place the quantity desired in 

a deep vessel, add enough water to barely cover. After 
standing over night if the water or juice be poured off 
and brought to a boil and poured over them again, it 
will add much to the flavor and taste of the fruit. 

Thus prepared and served whole with a little cream, 
prunes are exceedingly nourishing and much superior to 
the cooked product. 

All evaporated or dehydrated fruits can be prepared 
according to the above recipe, especially evaporated 
apricots and peaches. Apricots, prunes or raisins 
soaked together about half and half, thus uniting the 
acid of the apricots with the sweet of the prunes or 
raisins make a most nourishing and delicious combina- 
tion. 

138 



Peaches to be prepared according to the above method 
should be the large unpeeled variety. 

SOAKED FIGS 

Select of large pulled figs, the quantity desired and 
place in a deep vessel. Cover with hot water, allow to 
stand six or eight hours or over night. Remove the 
water and boil it down to a thin syrup. Pour this over 
the figs again and serve \\'ith cream. 

STEAMED FIGS 

Cleanse thoroughly and place the quantity of figs de- 
sired in vessel and steam until soft. Any fig can be 
used, but the large pulled variety are much preferable. 
Serve with cream or "Christian's" salad dressing. 

This is especially recommended as a winter dessert. 

CHEESE— RAISINS 

Raisins, fresh cream cheese and nuts eaten together 
make a most nourishing and well balanced combination. 

The raisins supply the natural carbohydrate. Cheese 
supply a concentrated form of protein while the nut 
gives a natural fat. It would be difficult to find a com- 
bination of three articles that would yield to the body 
more heat and energy than this. 



139 



Desserts 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

^f\EAT four egg whites to a stiff froth. Dis- 
JjJ solve one rounded tablespoonful of Cox's 
gelatine in one-half cup boiling water; then 
add one-half cup cold water. When cool beat slowly 
into the egg whites, and whip in a scant cup of 
granulated sugar. Add flavoring, or a few fresh or 
soaked evaporated apricots mashed to a pulp. Stir 
until mixture hardens. Serve with whipped cream. 

VIENO PUDDING 

Scald one quart of milk in double boiler, then stir in 
a pinch of salt and four tablespoons Vieno Food and 
cook 25 to 30 minutes. After it has cooked 10 or 15 
minutes add one-half teacup seeded raisins. When 
ready, turn into moulds and serve cold with cream and 
sugar or fruit juice if desired. 

UNCOOKED FRUIT CAKE 

Place on a small dish a layer of ground figs and over 
this a layer of grated protoid nuts and a few stoned 
dates, cut in small bits. Cover with fresh grated cocoa- 
nut. Build these layers one upon the other until the 
whole is of the thickness desired. Cover the top with 

140 



fresh cocoanut. Decorate with any small ornamental 
fruit. Cut thin with a sharp knife and serve in very- 
dainty portions. 

HONEY NUT 

To one part of strained honey add two parts of 
grated nuts (protoid nuts preferred), mix thoroughly. 
Cover with whipped cream and stiffly beaten white of 
egg. Serve with De Luxe whole-wheat crackers (O. 
B. Oilman's). 

CHOCOLATE DAINTIES 
Mix thoroughly one-half cup of pecan nuts, one- 
half cup of protoid nuts, two-thirds of a cup of figs (cut 
in pieces), and one-third cup of stoned dates. Chop or 
grind all together. Add one tablespoon of orange juice, 
a small bit of grated orange peel and one square of 
melted chocolate (unsweetened). Toss on a board 
sprinkled with grated protoid nuts and roll or cut in 
any shape desired. 

ORANGE BASKETS 

Select the number of oranges desired. Cut one- 
eighth out of each side of an orange leaving a handle in 
the center. Remove the pulp. Fill the basket with 
seeded Malaga grapes, sliced bananas, bits of orange^ 
a few chopped dates or raisins, a dash of cocoanut 
(fresh or dried), and a spoonful of grated nuts. Just 
before serving place a spoonful of whipped cream on 
top. Serve on a small plate and decorate with smilax 

141 



or bits of something green. This makes a very novel, 
beautiful and delicious dish. 

MILANAISE SOUFFLE 

Put three egg yolks into a saucepan. Add one cup 
sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of two lemons. 
Set on stove and stir until hot, then strain into a basin. 

Add to this one and one-half heaping tablespoons 
Cox's Powdered Gelatine, dissolve with one-half cup 
boiling water. Cool and add one cup heavy cream 
whipped, and the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into a 
pretty dish, when set decorate with whipped cream, 
ornamental fruits or rose petals. 

RASPBERRY MERINGUE PUDDING 
Rub enough ripe raspberries through a sieve to make 
one pint of pulp, then dissolve three heaping table- 
spoons of Cox's "Instant Powdered" Gelatine in one cup 
of milk. Add to this one cup of sugar, one tablespoon 
lemon juice and two cups whipped cream. Mix this 
thoroughly with the raspberry pulp. Pour into a wet 
mold. When set, turn out and decorate with raspber- 
ries and whipped cream. 

This will serve nine or ten people. 

ORANGE CREAM PUDDING 

Dissolve two heaping tablespoons Cox's "Instant 
Powdered" Gelatine in one cup boiling water. Add to 
this two cups sugar, two cups orange juice and three 
egg yolks. Beat thoroughly, then add two cups heavy 

142 



cream whipped. Pour into a wet mold, turn out when 
firm. 

Decorate if desired. 

BANANA CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Peel and cut three or four bananas into strips re- 
sembling lady fingers. Line with these the bottom and 
sides of a small plain charlotte mold. Mix one heaping 
tablespoon Cox's Powdered Gelatine with one cup hot 
milk. Dissolve thoroughly. Add two tablespoons sugar, 
one-half teaspoon vanilla extract. When cool fold in 
one cup heavy cream whipped. Set aside until firm 
then turn out and serve with cream or fruit juice. 

Note — A few seeded raisins or Malaga grapes can be 
placed in the center of the mold before pouring in the 
gelatine. 



143 



A Word About Gelatine 



#' 



'ELATINE is made from the connective tissue of 
animals. It takes its name from the word gela- 
tinoid, which is one of the principal nitrogen- 
ous compounds of the proteid group. It closely resem- 
bles the white of egg in food value and appearance, and 
like egg albumen it is non-uric acid, hence the best form 
of nutrition from animal sources. 

Gelatine was first brought into public notice about 
1845 by being prescribed by physicians for convalescing 
patients and people with weak digestion. Owing to its 
superior value as a readily digestible and assimilable 
proteid food it was taken up by the London Lancet 
along in 1845-6 and soon became the favorite basis for 
desserts of the discriminating (English and the sturdy 
Scotch) consumer. 

The color of natural gelatine is a pale amber, when 
very light it has probably been bleached by the use of 
sulphurous acid, which is also a preservative and very 
deleterious. 

The purpose of this work is to aid people in selecting 
the purest food and preparing it in the best way; for 
the same reason, therefore, that I have mentioned sev- 

144 



eral other brands of pure food, I now recommend Cox's 
"Instant Powdered" Gelatine. 

This sterling old concern was founded in 1725 in 
Edinburgh, Scotland, where it is still doing business. 
For more than sixty years, since gelatine was discov- 
ered, it has furnished to people all over the world the 
best and purest proteid food that could be made. 

If this helps the housewife to secure the best I will 
be glad, and if it helps the good old concern across 
the sea thev have earned it. 



145 




Jellies, Creams and Mousses 

CHERRY JELLY 

JSSOLVE thoroughly in one and one-half pints 

boiling water, two tablespoons Cox's Powdered 

Gelatine and four or five tablespoons sugar. 

When cool whip in half cup whipped cream and a cup 

of cherries, cut in halves. Pour in a wet mold and set 

on ice to harden. Serve with cream. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY 

Dissolve in two cups of boiling water two tablespoons 
Cox's "Instant Powdered" Gelatine and two tablespoons 
sugar. When partly cooled add one cup of grated and 
sweetened pineapple. Turn out when set and decorate 
with whipped cream. 

MELON JELLY 

Remove the center from a cold watermelon and fill 
the cavity with the following jelly mixture: 

Dissolve about an ounce (or two tablespoons) of 
Cox's "Instant Powdered" Gelatine in one pint boiling 
water according to the size of melon to be filled. Mash 
through strainer one large cup of strawberries. Sweeten 

146 



to taste. Add to gelatine. When partly cool pour in 
the melon cavity and serve when firm. 

BANANA JELLY 

Dissolve in one pint of boiling water, one heaping 
tablespoon of Cox's Powdered Gelatine, four or five 
tablespoons sugar and the strained juice of one lemon. 
Mash to a pulp one or two very ripe bananas into which 
stir two stifily beaten egg whites and two or three tea- 
spoons powdered sugar. Mix thoroughly and whip 
into the jelly when it is partly cooled. 

Serve with cream. 

APPLE JELLY 

Dissolve in one pint of boiling water two tablespoons 
Cox's Powdered Gelatine and four or five tablespoons 
sugar, adding juice of a lemon. 

To half a cup of whipped cream add two whipped 
egg whites. 

Grate one large apple, sweeten to taste adding a little 
nutmeg and when jelly is partly cooled whip in gently 
the apple and egg mixture. 

JELLY TABLE DECORATIONS 

A large variety of forms and artistic table decora- 
tions can be made as follows : 

Prepare a light transparent jelly. Pour into a large 
mold. When this is partly hardened press into it a 
smaller mold. When this is set, remove the smaller 
mold and fill the cavity with jelly of another color, 

147 



Note — This is a mere suggestion. An infinite variety 
of effects can be produced by using various fruits for 
coloring jellies. 

FRUIT JELLY 

Dissolve in one pint boiling water two tablespoons 
Cox's "Instant Powdered" Gelatine, when it begins to 
harden whip in slowly two stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Add to this a cup of any macerated fruit or berries and 
half cup grated nuts. Turn into molds and place on ice 
to set or harden. Sweeten to taste before putting in 
molds. Serve with cream or fruit juice. 

ORANGE CUPS 

Select number of oranges desired. Cut a hole in the 
top of each large enough to insert a spoon. Remove the 
pulp and juice. Dissolve two tablespoons Cox's "Instant 
Powdered" Gelatine, four or five tablespoons sugar, and 
fill the orange shells. Set on ice until hard or ready to 
use. Serve with whipped cream. 

Note — The orange juice or pulp can be used for the 
jelly. 

CREAM STRAWBERRIES 

Dissolve one tablespoon Cox's Gelatine in one cup of 
boiling water. Add a grated lemon peel and juice of 
one lemon. Put in a small cup of grape juice and 
sweeten to taste. Place on the fire and stir until sugar 
is thoroughly dissolved, strain and set away to cool. 
Before it hardens add a pint of cream and whip thor- 

148 



oughly. Put a few selected berries in the mold and 
pour the cream over. Set aside to harden. Serve with 
grape juice or cream. 

BAVARIAN CREAM 

To one-half ounce Cox's Powdered Gelatine add 
one-half pint of boiling water. When dissolved, add 
the juice of a lemon and a cupful of any berry or fruit 
juice (sweetened). Stand the pan containing the mix- 
ture in cold water and beat until it begins to thicken. 
Whip in this one-half pint whipped cream, put in molds 
and set away to harden. Serve with thick cream. 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE 

Put through a sieve a quart of very ripe strawberries. 
Thoroughly mix into this a pint of granulated sugar. 
Set aside for a short time. Add one tablespoon Cox's 
Powdered Gelatine to one and one-half cups hot water. 
Dissolve well and whip this into the fruit mixture when 
partly cooled. Set this in ice water and stir until it be- 
gins to thicken, then add one-half pint of cream thor- 
oughly whipped, mixing well. Pour this into a well 
packed ice cream freezer and allow to stand until firm. 

Note — Any seeded berries can be used in the same 
way. 

COCOANUT MOUSSE 

Dissolve one teaspoon Cox's "Instant Powdered" Gel- 
atine in two tablespoons boiling water. Add to this 
one-half cup boiling milk. Cool and add one cup grated 

149 



fresh cocoanut, three tablespoons orange juice, and two 
cups heavy cream (whipped). Mix and pour into a 
chilled mold. Pack in ice and salt for three or four 
hours. Garnish with stars of whipped cream. 
Service for five or six people. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 
To one pint extra heavy cream add three-fourths cup 
of maple syrup. Whip until thick, then add one cup 
chopped nuts. Put in mold and pack in ice and salt. 
Let stand two or three hours, then serve. 

APRICOT CREAM 

Put through a colander and sweeten to taste about a 
dozen pieces of soaked evaporated apricots. Dissolve 
one tablespoon of Cox's Powdered Gelatine and two or 
three tablespoons sugar in a cup of boiling water. 
When partly cooled stir in the apricots and one-half 
cup whipped cream. Chill in mold anjd serve. 

Note — Fresh peaches, soaked prunes or crushed ber- 
ries can be used instead of apricots if more convenient. 



150 



Whips and Sauces 

PEACH FOAM 

fj&fi^ O two or three heaping tablespoons mashed 

Wl peaches, add two stiffy beaten ^gg whites and 

sweeten to taste. Add a few seedless raisins 

and serve with cream. Any crushed fruit can be used 

instead of peaches. 

RASPBERRY CREAM 

Wlifp two ounces fresh butter to a cream, whipping 
in half cup powdered sugar. Add a handful of crushed 
raspberries slowly, whipping continually until the whole 
is light and frothy. If it should slightly curdle add 
more powdered sugar and place on ice. 

Note — Any berries may be used in the same way. 

Raspberry cream is delicious served over fruits and 
jellies. 

BLACKBERRY CREAM 

Thoroughly macerate and put through a sieve one 
pint very ripe blackberries, sweeten to taste. Just be- 
fore serving add to this two stiffly beaten &gg whites, a 
little whipped cream or both. 

ICED FRUIT 
Divide into quarters or eighths apples or oranges. Dip 
151 



in a firm icing and string on a thread. Suspend in a 
slow oven or sunshine until dry. 

Note — Any kind of fruit or berries can be prepared 
according to this recipe. It is a very novel dish, there- 
fore intended more for banquets or special occasions. 

BRANDY SAUCE FOR FRUITS, JELLIES, ETC. 

To half cup of creamed butter, add one cup of sugar, 
beating constantly, then whip in one stiffly beaten yolk 
of egg. Add slowly, six tablespoons hot water, stirring 
constantly, and last stir in one tablespoon of brandy. 

Just before serving add the stiffly beaten white of one 
egg. 

GRAPE WHIP 

Dissolve a tablespoon of Cox's Instant Powdered 
Gelatine in one-half pint of boiling water and one-half 
pint of grape juice, and allow to cool. Beat two egg 
whites and whip them into the jelly before it is entirely 
hardened. 

Chill in a mold and serve. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP 

Cleanse thoroughly and mash one quart of straw- 
berries with one-half cup sugar. Dissolve two table- 
spoons Cox's Powdered Gelatine in one-half cup of 
boiling water. Boil one cup of water and half a cup of 
sugar gently for fifteen to twenty minutes. Add the 
gelatine to the hot syrup, stir until dissolved, and take 
from the fire at once. Now add the berries and place on 

152 



ice. When chilled begin to beat and continue until light 
and foamy. Add the whites of four stififly beaten eggs. 
Pour in a mold to set. Serve in custard cups. 

STRAWBERRY FOAM 

Cleanse thoroughly and mash one pint of sweet straw- 
berries, add five or six tablespoons powdered sugar, or 
sweeten to taste. Just before serving whip in two stiffly 
beaten egg whites, whipping constantly until it will keep 
its shape and stand above the rim of the glass or small 
cups in which it would be served. 

This is very delicious if properly mixed. 

HARD SAUCE 

Cream, two tablespoons butter and four tablespoons 
of sugar. Beat thoroughly (eight or ten minutes). 
Flavor with vanilla and nutmeg, fruit juice or any ex- 
tract. 

Note — This is a very spicy and tasty dressing to use 
over bananas, berries or any crushed fruit. 

DATE AND APPLE SAUCE 

Grate two or three tart apples, take an equal quantity 
of dates, remove the stones and mash or prepare same 
as date butter. Add to the dates one-half cake of cream 
cheese, then, with a fork whip in the grated apples. 
Serve with cream. 

APPLE NUT CREAM 

Peel and grate two or three sweet apples, add to this 
one-quarter pound grated nuts, a few chopped raisins. 

153 



Mix well and just before serving whip in one stiffly 
beaten egg white in which a little cream has been 
whipped. 

PRUNE WHIP 

Soak one pound of prunes until very soft, remove 
pits, mash through colander, then beat the white of one 
egg very stiff and whip into the prune pulp. Cover with 
grated nuts and serve with thick cream or whipped 
cream. 

BANANA CREAM 
Reduce to a very fine pulp two or three very ripe 
bananas. Add a few drops of lemon juice and sweeten 
to taste. Just before serving add the stiffly beaten 
white of an egg. Serve in punch cups or small stem 
glasses with a candied cherry and a dash of grated nuts. 



154 



Ice Cream, Sherbets and Ices 

SOME FACTS ABOUT ICE CREAM 

3CE CREAM is a good food when taken in combi- 
nation with other things with which it is chemi- 
cally harmonious. 
It is not a good food taken at the close of a ten 
course dinner or after one has eaten an abundance of 
other things. 

Ice cream made as per the following recipes contains 
the best form of proteids, fats, carbohydrates and sev- 
eral other valuable nutritive elements. It is, therefore, 
a good meal taken alone. 

In order to enjoy ice cream and secure the best re- 
sults, it should be eaten after one vegetable, preferably 
green corn, peas, beans, sweet potatoes or carrots. 

If a light meal is desired the vegetables can be 
omitted and the entire repast may consist of ice cream 
and very ripe bananas. 

Taken in this way once or twice a week ice cream will 
give splendid results both as to digestion and physical 
energy. 

ICE CREAM 
Whip one quart of heavy cream, add one pint of 
milk, and sweeten to taste, stirring until sugar is thor- 

155 



oughly dissolved. Pour this into the freezer well packed 
with ice and salt, adding a pint of sweetened crushed 
fruit last in order to prevent curdling. Larger or 
smaller quantities can be made in same proportions. 

If fresh fruit cannot be obtained, evaporated apricots 
or peaches soaked until very soft and put through a 
colander can be used. 

If plain ice cream is desired fruit can be omitted and 
flavoring extract used instead. 

Great care should be exercised in the purity of flav- 
oring as many extracts are made from chemical com- 
pounds wholly unfit for use. 

EGG ICE CREAM 

Beat thoroughly two whole eggs, whip into this one 
pint of heavy cream. Sweeten to taste, whipping con- 
tinually. When sugar is thoroughly dissolved, add one 
quart of milk, and freeze. 

MAPLE ICE CREAM 

Add a cupful of pure maple syrup to one pint of very 
heavy cream. Whip with a Dover egg beater until the 
whole is very thick, then add two cups of milk and 
freeze same as ice cream. 

Note — Two lightly beaten egg whites and one-half 
cup of chopped nuts will make this very nourishing, 
rich and delicious. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM 

Dissolve one-half heaping tablespoon Cox's "Instant 
Powdered" Gelatine in one-half cup boiling water. Add 

156 



to this three cups heavy cream, one cup milk, one cup 
sugar, one tablespoon vanilla extract. Mix thoroughly 
and freeze without cooking. 

This will serve eight or ten people. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

To the juice of four lemons and one cup of fresh 
grated pineapple, add water enough to make two quarts. 
Sweeten to taste and freeze. When about half frozen 
add the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. 

Freeze same as ice cream. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

To three pints of crushed berries add about one pound 
of powdered sugar (or sweeten to taste). Allow to 
stand twenty or thirty minutes, then add three pints of 
water and freeze. 

If desired the fruit can be put through a fine sieve, 
removing the seeds before freezing. 

RASPBERRY ICE 

To three cups of fresh raspberry juice add two cups 
of sugar, the juice of two lemons and four cups of 
water. Stir until sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Allow 
to stand about an hour, then freeze same as ice cream. 

Note — This can be made very delicious by adding 
one-half pint whipped cream when about half frozen. 

PEACH SHERBET 

Add about one pound sugar to one quart of very ripe 
peaches and mash through a colander, add to this a 

157 



cupful of water and five unbeaten egg whites and freeze. 
Plums, fresh or evaporated apricots or any combina- 
tion of fruits desired can be used instead of peaches. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

Cleanse thoroughly one quart strawberries and put 
through a sieve. Add the juice of one lemon and one 
and one-half pints of water. Sweeten to taste. 

Freeze same as ice cream. When about half frozen, 
add two stiffly beaten egg whites. 



158 



Drinks 

THEIR PURPOSE AND PLACE IN THE 
ECONOMY OF NATURE 

f^^ HE human body is composed of about two- 
%cl ^ thirds water. Drinks therefore occupy an im- 
portant place in the healthy human economy. 

Fruit and salads (green plants), are Nature's water 
foods, therefore, fruit juices are the logical and practi- 
cal summer drink. The recipes herein given are mere 
suggestions from which the enterprising housewife can 
invent almost a limitless number of delicious beverages, 
far more healthful and cheaper than anything that can 
be served from the soda fount. The soda fount drink 
while popular is objectionable owing to the excess 
amount of sugar it usually contains. Nearly all fresh 
ripe fruits contain a liberal per cent of grape sugar, 
which is one of Nature's best blood makers, while the 
fruit acid aids in the digestion of other foods, increases 
stomach and intestinal activity, hence is almost indis- 
pensable to the maintenance of health. 

Most of the following recipes contain some cane 
sugar. These are given to meet the requirements of 
the average person. After all, there is nothing so health- 

159 



ful and delicious to the unperverted taste as pure, cold 
water. 

LIMEADE 
Prepare the same as lemonade allowing one lime to a 
glass of water. Sweeten to taste. 

RASPBERRY NECTAR 

Mash one quart each of raspberries and currants, 
strain, sweeten and set on ice. Just before serving add 
water and more sugar, if necessary. 

ORANGEADE 

To the juice of eight oranges add the juice of three 
lemons, and the amount of water desired. Sweeten to 
taste. This can be served in deep glasses with crushed 
ice and a few mint leaves or in punch glasses with a few 
crystalized cherries. 

GRAPE PUNCH 

To one quart of unfermented grape juice, add the 
juice of six lemons, sweeten to taste. Set on ice and 
when ready to serve add carbonated or apollinaris 
water, if desired. This might be mellowed somewhat 
and made slightly more palatable by boiling together 
one-half pound sugar with one-half pint of water with 
which to sweeten, being careful not to stir after sugar 
is dissolved. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

To the juice of one fresh, medium size pineapple add 
three pints of water, the juice of five or six lemons and 

160 



sweeten to taste. Add a few candied cherries. Serve 
in punch glasses with crushed ice. 

GRATED PEARS 

Select sweet ripe pears, peel and grate. Serve with 
the sweetened cream and egg white whipped together. 

EGG LEMONADE 
To one quart water add a cup of sugar. Allow this 
to come to a boil. Set on ice. When chilled, add the 
juice of four or five lemons. Thoroughly whip the eggs 
and just before serving turn all into lemonade shaker 
and mix thoroughly. 

MINT AND CURRANT JULEP 
To one-half pint of mashed currants add one-half 
pint of water, put through a sieve, then strain through 
a cheese cloth. Sweeten to taste and set on ice. When 
ready to serve put crushed ice in the bottom of a wine 
glass then two or three fresh raspberries or crystalized 
cherries, add a few crushed mint leaves and a little 
more sugar and fill with the iced currant water. 

MINT CUPS 

To the juice of five lemons, add a handful of crushed 
mint leaves, one cup of sugar (or sweeten to taste) and 
cover and let stand thirty minutes. Just before serving 
add grape juice and water about half and half. Put a 
few mint leaves in the top of the pitcher. Serve very 
cold in f rappe glasses. 

IGl 



Balanced Menus 

FOR SPRiNG, SUMMER, FALL AND WINTER 

CHE following menus are composed of the fewest 
number of things that will meet the require- 
ments of the body undergoing a normal amount 
of activity or work during the four seasons of the year. 
They are selected, combined and proportioned so as to 
contain all the elements of nourishment the normal 
body needs under normal conditions. They contem- 
plate an ordinary amount of physical labor and out- 
door exposure. If, however, one should be much ex- 
posed to cold, fats, sugar and starches should be mate- 
rially increased in the winter menus. If they were go- 
ing to engage in strenuous physical labor the amount 
of proteids and nitrogenous articles should be increased 
If one should be much exposed to the heat of a sum- 
mer's sun, the carbohydrate (sugar and starch ele- 
ment) should be reduced. It should be borne in mind 
that glucose or grape sugar, nitrogenous foods, and all 
proteid compounds, build muscle and tissue, while car- 
bohydrates, gelatinoids and albumenoids fill the cells 
and produce heat and energy. 

In the summer and autumn seasons Nature furnishes 
an abundant supply of food that can be taken in its 

162 



natural state, which contains all the elements of nour- 
ishment the body requires, but in winter and early 
spring it often becomes difficult to procure a well-bal- 
anced bill-of-fare, especially as to carbohydrates, with- 
out the use of some of the conventional cooked articles. 

WHY NO BREAD 

In the following menus for the four seasons of the 
year the staflf of life, so called, has been purposely 
omitted or at least reduced to the minimum and in a 
form produced from the whole grain. 

Conspicuous among the most prolific causes of all 
stomach trouble, nervousness, constipation and the long 
train of ills that follow, is the bread-eating habit or 
what might be called the starch-eating habit. 

The growing child can use more starch foods than 
the adult because starch (sulphate of lime) builds bone 
and teeth. The adult body, therefore, is capable of 
using and really needs but very little starch. Of the 
total amount of nutrition taken, not more than ten per 
cent should be starch, while it is nothing uncommon, in 
fact, quite the usual thing, to see the average meal com- 
posed of bread, potatoes, peas, beans or grain products 
in some form to the extent of 50 or 60 per cent starch. 

The residue of starch that cannot be used, if digested, 
congests in the capillary vessels, muscles and joints and 
makes rheumatism, gout, lumbago and other little evi- 
dences of civilization which we call disease. If it is not 

163 



digested it undergoes fermentation in the stomach caus- 
ing intestinal gas, irregular heart action, etc., etc. 

When the above disorders have once made their ap- 
pearance, one should place themselves immediately 
under the care of some competent food scientist who is 
capable of prescribing a remedial diet that will first 
counteract these conditions and when this is done, a 
thoroughly balanced menu that will level or equalize the 
diet with the requirements of the body under its vary- 
ing conditions of work, age and climate. 



161 



Early Spring Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Oranges or Strawberries. 

Sauce dish Christian's Laxative Cereal Flakes. 

One egg whipped or boiled two minutes. 

Glass or Two of Water. 

LUNCHEON 

Fruit Salad, with whipped cream. 

Whole- Wheat Bread or Crackers. Sweet Butter 

Glass or two of Water. 

DINNER. 

Cream of Tomato. 

Stuffed Tomatoes Mixed Nuts 

Green Peas Carrots or New Potatoes, 

Unfired or Whole- Wheat Crackers (very few) 

Sweet Butter, 

Philadelphia Brand Cream Cheese Raisins, 

Glass of Buttermilk. 

One Glass of Water. 



166 



Late Spring Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Baked Apple. 

Protoid Nuts or English Walnuts, 

Dates Cream Cheese, 

Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Vegetable Salad with Dressing, 

Pecan Meats or Protoid Nuts, 

Unfired or Whole- Wheat Crackers (very few) 

Nut Butter, 

Glass of Buttermilk. 

DINNER. 

Cream of Corn, 

Endive Salad with Dressing, 

Ripe Olives. 

English Walnuts or Protoid Nuts, 

Asparagus, Baked Potato. 

One or Two Glasses Water. 



166 



Early Summer Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Berries with Grated Nuts, 

One or Two very ripe Bananas with Protoid Nuts or 

"Beech-Nut" Peanut Butter, 

Glass of Milk. 

One Glass Water. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cantaloupe, 

Boiled Corn Sweet Butter, 

Glass or two of Water. 



DINNER. 

Lima Beans Boiled Corn, 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad, 

Protoid Nuts, 

Whole Wheat or Corn Bread Nut Butter, 

Peach Ice Cream. 

One or Two Glasses Water. 



187 



Late Summer Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced Peaches with Cream, 

Pecan Meats or Protoid Nuts, 

Steamed Whole Wheat with Cream. 

Few Dates or Raisins. 

Water. 

LUNCHEON. 

Peaches or Pears, 

Vegetable Salad with Dressing, 

Protoid Nuts, 

Oilman's "De Luxe" Crackers, 

"Beech-Nut" Peanut Butter. 

One or Two Glasses Water. 

DINNER. 

Cantaloupe, 

Peas in the Pod Boiled Corn 

Tomato and Cucumber Salad, 

Pecan Meats, 

Corn Bread or Unleavened Gems, with Sweet Butter, 

Buttermilk, 

Sliced Peaches. 

Two Glasses Water. 

168 



Early Fall Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Fresh Peaches or Baked Apple, 

Christian's Laxative Cereal Flakes, 

One Egg Nuts. 

Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 
Two or three Bananas with thin Cream. 
"Beech-Nut" Peanut Butter 
Two Glasses Water. 

DINNER. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Olives Nuts. 

Lima Beans Beets. 

Unfired Wafers or Oilman's "De Luxe" Crackers. 

Peanut Butter. 

Dates Nuts Cream Cheese (Philadelphia Brand). 

Cantaloupe. 

One Glass Milk or Two Glasses Water. 



189 



Late Fall Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Fresh Pears or Soaked Prunes with Cream. 

Nuts, 

Unfired Crackers Peanut Butter 

Milk. 

LUNCHEON. 

Baked Sweet Potato, 
Buttermilk. 

DINNER. 

Cream of Pea. 

Unfired Wafers or De Luxe Crackers Peanut Butter, 

Boiled Corn Carrots in Cream, 

Sliced Tomatoes, 

Buttermilk. 
Sliced Peaches. 



170 



Early Winter Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Apples or Oranges, 

Pecan Meats or Protoid Nuts, 

Very Ripe Banana with Cream, 

Dates or Raisins Cream Cheese (Philadelphia Brand) 

Two Glasses Water. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cream of Rice. 

Oilman's "Wheat Crispies," 

Celery Mixed Nuts, 

Milk or Water. 

DINNER. 

Vegetable Salad with dressing, 

English Walnuts or Protoid Nuts 

Unfired Wafers Peanut Butter, 

Onions in Cream Baked Potato, 

Fruit Jelly. 

Glass or Two of Water. 



171 



Late Winter Menu 

BREAKFAST. 

Grape Fruit, 

Steamed Whole Wheat, 

Protoid Nuts, 

Glass of Water. 

LUNCHEON. 

Corn Bread Sweet Butter, 

Buttermilk. 

DINNER. 

Cream of Corn and Tomato, 

Gilman's "Wheat Puffs" or Unfired Wafers, 

Celery or any Green Salad, 

Mixed Nuts or Peanut Butter (Beech-Nut preferred) 

Spinach Baked Sweet Potato, 

Apple Float. 

Two Glasses Water. 



172 



Uncooked Banquet Menu 

FOR SPRING • 

Cream of Corn, 
Ripe Olives, Stuffed Celery Hearts, 



Stuffed Tomatoes with Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Strawberry Sorbet, 

Pecan Meats, Protoid Nuts, 

Unfired Wafers, Sweet Butter, 



Orange Baskets, 
Unfired Fruit Wafers, "Beech-Nut" Peanut Butter, 



Marshmallow Pudding with Whipped Cream, 
Fresh Apricot Ice Cream, 



Fruit Cake, 
Raspberry Nectar. 

178 



Uncooked Banquet Menu 

FOR SUMMER 
Iced Cantaloupe with Fresh Cherries. 



Vegetable Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing, 

Pecan Meats, Salted Almonds, 

Unfired Wafers, Sweet Butter. 



Fruit and Nut Medley, 
Egg Float. 



Peach Ice Cream, 
Fruit Cake. 

Grape Punch. 
174 



Uncooked Banquet Menu 

FOR AUTUMN 

Cream of Pea, 
Unfired Wafers, Ripe Olives, 



Cress and Tomato Salad with Dressing, 

Pineapple Ice, 

Protoid Nuts, English Walnuts, 

Unfired Wafers, Sweet Butter. 



Cheese Eggs, 
Orange Cups with Whipped Cream. 



Vanilla Ice Cream, 
Fruit Cake. 

Frappe. 
17» 



Uncooked Banquet Menu 

FOR WINTER 

Cereal Soup, 
Celery, Ripe Olives, 



Unfired Wafers, Sweet Butter. 

Tomato and Endive Salad, 

Protoid Nuts, Blanched Almonds, 

Unfired Wafers, "Beech-Nut" Peanut Butter. 



Orange Baskets, 

Unfired Fruit Wafers, Date Butter. 

Japanese Persimmons with Cream. 



Ice Cream, 
Fruit Cake. 

Mint Cups. 

176 



Mrs. Christian's Vieno Baby 
Food 

A SCIENTIFIC BARLEY COMBINATION 

^■p^ HERE is no period in life when so much de- 
"I ^ pends on food as during infancy and early 
childhood. Since I entered the professional 
field of teaching the science of infant feeding, it has 
been my purpose to bring out an infant and baby food 
that would meet the requirements of a child from birth 
until it is capable of thorough mastication. 

Vieno Baby Food is a combination of the most nutri- 
tive and purest food articles that can be found. It is 
the result or finished product of many years careful re- 
search and experimentation. 

Vieno Baby Food prepared according to my formulas 
is readily soluble and easily digested and assimilated. 
It is nearly 99 per cent pure nutrition. 

Owing to the ease with which Vieno Baby Food is 
converted into energy by the body and its thoroughly 
balanced nutritive properties it is an ideal food for 
growing children as well as infants. 

For prices see page 183. 

VIENO BABY FOOD FORMULAS 

The following table gives formulas for the prepara- 
177 



tion of Vieno Baby Food, for infants, from the first to 
the twelfth month. 



Month 


« 


C 


•2 


4 


43 
4J 


^ 





00 


0^ 





.C 


^ 




oz. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


OZ. 


Water 


15 


h 
4 

I 


14 


I 

5 
I 


II 

f 

I 

h 


8 
I 

I 
7 


6 

f 
8 


5 
f 


4 
If 

f 
II 


3 
2 

f 
12 


2 
2 


I 

14 





i 

IS 






Vieno baby food (dry). 
Milk sugar 


2i 


Whole milk 


t6 


Lime water 










The above table or formulas are given in ounces. If 
the mother or nurse does not have a graduated or an 
ounce measuring glass she can be guided by the fol- 
lowing: 

2 tablespoons Liquid — one ounce. 

2 tablespoons Vieno Baby Food — one ounce. 



178 



Directions for Preparing 
Vieno Baby Food 



Dissolve thoroughly the required amount of Baby 
Food and milk sugar in the amount of cold water given 
in table according to the age of the child. Cook in dou- 
ble boiler from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Remove 
from fire, strain, and when partly cool add the milk and 
lime water. 

The temperature of infant food should range from 
97° to 103° F. 

In preparing Vieno Baby Food according to the direc- 
tions above given some judgment should be used. 
Enough water should be added to make up for the 
amount boiled away, to bring the food to the consistency 
required to feed freely through a nursing bottle. 

VIENO CREAM SOUP 

Dissolve four tablespoons of Vieno Baby Food in 
two cups of cold water. Cook in double boiler twenty- 
five or thirty minutes, then add three cups of milk, 
piece of butter, salt and pepper. Flavor with strained 
tomato, corn or chopped celery. 



179 



Mrs. Christian's Vieno Food 

(FOR ADULTS) 

A Scientific Preparation for Growing Children, Con- 
valescents, the Aged, Those Who Have Poor Teeth, and 
for Producing Fat or Gaining Weight. 

Vieno Food contains the highest per cent of nutrition 
that can be secured from grains. It is prepared so as 
to make it readily soluble in the gastric juices of the 
stomach, easily digested and assimilated. It is there- 
fore, the best form of nutrition that can be prepared for 
those engaged in sedative occupations or brain work, or 
those who are ill or recovering from sickness of any 
kind. 

FOR THE THIN OR EMACIATED— Vieno Food 
being especially rich in carbohydrates and readily as- 
similated into the tissues it is especially recommended 
for those desiring to gain in weight, strength and vi- 
tality. 

FOR THE AGED AND THOSE WHO HAVE 
POOR TEETH — Mastication is of very great import- 
ance. There are, however, many thousands of people 
who cannot perform this extremely necessary function. 
For this class of people Vieno Food is the ideal form of 
nourishment and when once used becomes almost indis- 
pensable. 

180 



FOR CONVALESCENTS 

The question of balancing the diet of those who are 
recovering from disease has long been a problem among 
dietitians. Vieno Food contains protein, fatb and car- 
bohydrates, three of the most important nutrients in 
our food in approximately the natural proportions re- 
quired by the human body. For this reason it is highly 
recommended for sick people and especially conva- 
lescing patients. 

Full directions are on each package for preparing this 
food for the various purposes above named. 



181 



As a partial compensation to those 
who serve the public with honest pure 
food products which are named in this 
work, we give the following names 
and addresses : 

O. B. OILMAN 

205 Tremont St., Boston, Mass. 

" BEECH-NUT " PACKING CO. 

Canajoharie, N. Y. 

PHOENIX CHEESE CO. 

345 Greenwich St., New York City 

COX GELATINE CO. 

100 Hudson St., New York City 

EHMANN OLIVE CO. 

Orville, California 



182 



Price List 

MRS. CHRISTIAN'S 

Vieno Baby Food 

Packed in lo-cent and 25-cent tins. 
25-cent size shipped in cases of 2 dozen, 
lo-cent size shipped in cases of 4 dozen. 
Trial size, sent postpaid, 25 cents. 

Vieno Food 

(FOR ADULTS) 

Packed only in 25-cent tins. 
Shipped in cases of i and 2 dozen. 
Trial size 25 cents, postpaid. 

Special Discounts to Agents and Dealers. 

Address, 

Mollie Griswold Christian, Child Specialist 

43 7th Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Office Hours: 10 A.M. to 12 daily. 

Phone connection. 

18S 



DFC 81 1910 



One copy del. to Cat. Piv. 



C'CJ Si "fgfc 




^ ,. . -w^/ 'V ' , ^its)'? "r A^ iif -/^^ 






h^-' 



t 1 / It ■!■<■' ff^ MT 



J ^.-y 






sUii 



