i( raiwi ifiilT^^^^^ ^ 



m 






M„ Uliu/f, 



It,,. »" . •! 



"3^e asm tap's rtpp 

anb ibi msahaia's in tfae blmmt' 



—Foster 



Heart of tfie WReat 




A BOOR OF RECIPES 

By UNA DUNIAP 



Aothor of 

'CANDLELIGHT TEA" 

"ODT OF TBB BLUE GRASS' 



COPYRIGHT 

1910 



Pre«i ol Trantylvania Priating Company, 

Lexington, Kentucky. 



<. 



i^' 






A 



^ 



% 



^ 



(g;CI,A27r)8ri4 



IrFabS 



Caks; 




reabsf 



BEATEN BISCUIT 

Mix one quart of hour with lump of lard size of an 
egg, teaspoonful of salt and one of baking powder. 
Make into a stiff dough with equal parts of milk and 
ice water. Knead well by rolling through biscuit 
machine. When smooth and soft and begins to blister 
and pop roll thin, stick with fork and bake in moderate 
oven twenty to thirty minutes. 



SALLY LUNN 



Have ready one yeast cake dissolved in a cup of 
lukewarm water. Beat very light and separately four 
eggs, add two tablespoonsful of sugar and butter size 
of an egg, which must be melted. Stir in enough 
flour to make a stiff batter, have very smooth, add yeast 
and fold in the well-beaten whites; let this batter rise 
well, then beat again; pour in shallow buttered pans; 
let rise to top of pans and bake in quick oven. 



Heart of the Wheat 

LIGHT ROLLS 

Set sponge with one quart of milk, one yeast cake, 
one teaspoonful of salt and enough flour to make a 
sponge. When it rises quite light add one-half cup of 
butter and one-half cup of lard, four tablespoonsful 
of sugar and the whites of four eggs. Knead enough 
flour into this to make a sticky dough, allow to rise 
again; put into tins and when they come to top of 
moulds bake in quick oven. 



POP OVERS 

Beat three eggs without separating till very light, 
add teaspoonful of salt; pour this on to two cups of 
flour, adding two cups of milk, beating all very light. 
Fill moulds half full and bake in quick oven. 



RICE MUFFINS 

Same as wheat muffins, allov^ing two cupsful of 
flour and one cupful of well-boiled rice. The cup of 
rice takes the place of the third cup of flour. 

10 



Breads 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Two cups of milk, one cup hot water, three table- 
spoonsful of butter, two of sugar, teaspoonful of salt, 
one cake fresh yeast; mix the milk, sugar, salt and dis- 
solved yeast; add melted butter and three cups of 
flour. Beat sponge until light and smooth ; cover close- 
ly and let rise in a warm place. When light add 
enough flour to make a soft dough. Cover and let 
rise again; roll out to half-inch thickness, cut with bis- 
cuit cutter, spread each with melted butter. Fold over, 
bringing edges together; place in buttered pan an inch 
apart, let rise until very light and bake in hot over 
for fifteen minutes. 



WHEAT BATTER CAKES 

To one and one-half cupsful of flour add one tea- 
spoonful of salt and two of baking powder. Beat 
the yolks of three eggs, add cup of sweet milk; pour 
liquid very gradually on flour, making a very smooth 
batter. Pour into this two lablespoonsful of melted 
butter; whites of eggs must be well beaten and folded 
in just before baking. Cakes must be baked on a hot, 
greased griddle. 

11 



Heart of the Wheat 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

To three cupsful of flour add one teaspoonful of salt 

and two of baking powder, sift all well; rub into this 

one-half cup of lard, make into a soft dough by using 

equal parts of water and milk. Knead until perfectly 

smooth, roll thin, cut out and bake in quick oven. 

MUFFINS 

Separate three eggs, beat very light, add to the 
yellows one cupful of milk; have sifted three cupsful 
of flour with one teaspoonful of salt. Whip this until 
you have a smooth light batter, adding more milk if 
needed. Just before baking add two teaspoonsful 
of baking powder and fold in the whites. Two table- 
spoonsful of melted butter added to the batter v^ll 
make them more tender. Pour into hot muffin moulds 
only half full and bake in quick oven. 

. RICE CAKES 

Make same as batter cakes, allowing one cup of 
well-cooked rice in place of one cup of flour. Bake 
same as batter cakes. 

12 



Breads 
BREAKFAST PUFFS 

Separate two eggs and to the well-beaten yolks add 
two cupsful of milk; sift two cupsful of flour and one 
teaspoonful of salt, pour the liquid into the flour, beating 
until you have a smooth batter. Fold in the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff and bake in hot, well greased 
mufHn rings. 



CRUMB CAKES 

Made the same as above batter cakes, allowing 
one cupful of bread crumbs in place of one of flour. 
Bake same as batter cakes. 



KENTUCKY CORN-DODGERS 

Sift one pint of meal, adding teaspoonful of salt, 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder. Stir into this boil- 
ing water until it is the consistency of mush. Have 
melted a tablespoonful of lard; mix well into the mush; 
make into oblong cakes; flatten after placing in a hot 
greased pan, not forgetting to leave the "Black Mam- 
my" finger prints on top of each dodger. 
13f 



Heart of the Wheat 

FRITTERS 

Separate three eggs, beat very light, add to the yel- 
lows one cupful of milk; have sifted three cupsful of 
flour, vs^ith one teaspoonful of salt and two of baking 
powder; whip this into the yolks and milk, adding a 
tablespoonful of melted butter. The well beaten whites 
must be foolded in just before frying; have lard very 
hot and deep, dropping batter from spoon. 



PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 

Made same as above, allowing one can of Hawaiian 
pineapple cut in small cubes and stirred in just before 
frying. Serve with the pineapple juice made into a 
syrup. 



PINEAPPLE PUFFS 

Make batter same as for fritters. Take one can of 
Hawaiian pineapple, lift out slices, dip them in batter 
and fry in deep, hot grease. Serve with pineapple 
syrup made from the juice. 
14 



Breads 
APPLE FRITTERS 

Chop good cooking apples very fine, stir in fritter 
batter, drop in hot grease. Serve with powdered sugar, 
into which has been mixed a small quantity of cinnamon, 

WAFFLES 

Beat separately five eggs, make a batter of three 
cupsful of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, three of bak- 
ing powder, yolks of five eggs and equal parts of milk 
and water until the consistency of cream; melt two 
tablespoonsful of butter and add just before folding in 
the well beaten whites. Bake in hot, well greased 
waffle irons. The secret of delicious waffles is to have 
batter light and thin and not over-filling the irons. This 
makes them heavy. 

CORN MUFFINS 

One pint of corn meal, one teaspoonful of salt, two 
eggs, beaten separately, two spoonsful of baking pow- 
der or one cup of buttermilk with one-half teaspoon of 
soda stirred in. Beat eggs, stir in milk, then meal, 
beat hard. Whites of eggs folded in just before bak- 
ing. Muffin moulds must be well greased and very hot. 
IS 



Heart of the Wheat 



SPOON BREAD 

Spoon bread can be made from mush, gritts or 
cream of wheat. To one quart of cooked material add 
two eggs, beaten separately ; one tablespoonful of melted 
butter and two teaspoonsful of baking powder and one 
cupful of milk. 



CREAM TOAST 

Toast bread evenly and light brown. Let your 
cream come to boiling point, but not boil; add salt and 
butter. Pour over toast when ready to serve. 



GRAHAM GEMS 

Mix into two cups of graham flour one teaspoonful 
of salt and two of baking powder; stir into this equal 
parts of milk and water until the consistency of thick 
cream, add eggs beaten separately and bake in gem 
pans. 

16 



Breads 

INDIAN FLAPPERS 

Have ready a pint of sifted meal mixed with a hand- 
ful of wheat flour and a small teaspoonful of salt. Beat 
four eggs very light and stir them by degrees into a 
quart of milk, in turn with the meal. They must be 
baked as soon as mixed on a hot griddle, allowring 
a ladle full to each cake. Send to table very hot, 
buttered and covered. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

Take one quart of buckwheat meal, mix with tea- 
spoonful of salt and two tablespoonsful of baking pow- 
der. Stir in the yolks of three eggs and milk to make 
a batter the consistency of cream. Fold in the three 
well beaten whites just before baking. 

FRENCH TOAST 

Slice bread thin, remove the crust, add a little sail 
and pint of milk to two well beaten eggs, dip each 
slice in the mixture and fry in very hot batter on both 
sides until a light brown. Grated cheese sprinkled 
on top of each slice will make it even more appetizing. 
Serve hot. 

17 



Heart of the Wheat 

FRENCH ROLLS 

Sift a pound of flour, rub into it butter size of an 
egg and the well beaten whites of three eggs and one- 
half yeast cake thoroughly dissolved. Add sufficient 
milk to make a light dough. Cover and keep in a 
warm place to rise. It should be light in an hour, divide 
into rolls, place them in greased pans to rise again, 
and when very light bake in quick oven. 



18 



Cafeps; 




afees! 



WHITE MOUNTAIN 

Cream together one cupful of butter and three of 
granulated sugar, stir into this one cupful of water 
(water makes a cake tender and does not stale quick- 
ly), add to this four cupsful of sifted flour and two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder. Beat to a stitf froth the 
whites of eleven eggs and fold them in the batter. 
Flavor with vanilla. Bake in layers and put together 
with ice-cream icing. 

ICE CREAM ICING 

Boil two cups of sugar in half cup of thick cream. 
Cook to a soft candy. Have ready the whites of three 
eggs, beaten to a stitf froth. Beat the candy while 
very hot into the eggs; continue stirring until it is thick 
and creamy. Spread between layers and over the en- 
tire cake. 

21 



Heart of the Wheat 

TUTTI FRUTTI 

Make cake same as white mountain, but put to- 
gether with following filling : Boil two cupsful of sugar 
with one-half cup of water, cook to a soft candy. Have 
ready the whites of three eggs, beaten very light. Stir 
hot candy into eggs, beat until very smooth, add one 
dozen fresh marshmallows that have been melted. 
Mince candied cherries, candied pineapple, blanched 
almonds and pistascho nuts. Stir all in icing and flavor 
with vanilla and rum. Spread very thick between 
layers. 



WHITE CAKE 

Two cupsful of sugar and one of butter creamed 
together, add one cupful of milk or water. Beat in 
three cupsful of flour and two large teaspoonsful of 
baking powder and whites of five eggs, beaten very 
light. Flavor to taste. Take one cup of the above 
dough and add four teaspoonsful of grated and melted 
chocolate, for a chocolate marble cake. After pour- 
ing white cake in pan, press in batter with large spoon, 
dropping chocolate cake in the space. 
22 



Cakes 

GOLD CAKE 

One-half cup of butter and one and one-half cupsful 
of sugar creamed together, stir in three-fourths of a cup 
of sweet milk, sift two cupsful of flour with one-third 
of a cup of cornstarch, one teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful of soda and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. Beat very light one whole egg 
and yolks of seven. Stir into the creamed butter and 
sugar the flour and eggs alternately. Flavor with 
vanilla. Bake in square loaf. Grate the rind of one 
orange, add to this one teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
two of orange juice, let stand for twenty minutes and 
strain. Add to this the beaten yolk of one egg. Stir 
this powdered sugar until stiff enough to spread. Cover 
entire cake. 



WHITE SPONGE CAKE 

Mix two cups of sugar with two of sifted flour, add 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder. Beat the whites 
of twelve eggs very light. Stir in the whites, gradu- 
ally, the mixture of sugar, flour and baking powder. 
Bake in quick oven. Flavor to taste. 
23 



Heart of the Wheat 

JELLY ROLL 

Mix one cupful of sugar, one of flour and one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Beat well four eggs, sepa- 
rated, add one tablespoonful of cold water to the yolks. 
Stir yolks into the mixture of flour and sugar, then 
fold in the whites. Bake in two or three thin layers; 
spread with jelly and roll. 



POUND CAKE 

Cream together one pound of sugar and one of but- 
ter, add to this one dozen eggs beaten separately. Stir 
in yolks first then alternately one pound of flour and 
beaten whites of eggs. Flavor with one-fourth of a cup 
of whiskey and a little nutmeg. Two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder beaten in just before baking. 

CREAM ICING NO. 2 

Two cupsful of powdered or confectioner's sugar 
and one-half cupful of very rich cream. Stir the 
sugar and cream before boiling; then boil until thick, 
but not hard, stirring constantly all the time. When 
done continue beating until consistency to spread on 
cake. 

24 



Cakes 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

To the whipped whites of four eggs add one cup of 
granulated sugar, beat until perfectly smooth. Dis- 
solve one tablespoonful of granulated gelatine in one- 
half cup of hot water. When this is cool add slowly 
to the eggs and sugar; continue beating until ready to 
spread on cake. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Beat twelve eggs separately, then stir mto the yoQss 
two cupsful of sugar, add one cupful of cold water 
and two heaping cupsful of sifted flour, lastly the 
whites which should be beaten to a stiff froth. Bake 
in quick oven. 

ANGELS' FOOD 

Take one coffee cupful of sifted flour, one and a 
half of powdered sugar and the whites of eleven eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Sift flour four times, put in a 
spoonful of baking powder while sifting the last time. 
Mix sugar and eggs, sift flour over very lightly, stirring 
constantly. Flavor with vanilla. Bake forty minutes 
in pan which has not been greased. 
25 



Heart of the Wheat 

PINEAPPLE CAKE 

Two cupsful of sugar, creamed with one cupful 
of butter, add to this one cupful of milk, beat into this 
three cupsful of flour. Lastly fold in the well beaten 
whites of six eggs and one heaping spoonful of baking 
powder. Bake in layers and use following filling: 
Pour over two teacupsful of sugar, two tablespoonsful 
of boiling water. Boil until it candies, then beat into 
two well beaten whites of eggs. Add one can of 
Hawaiian grated pineapple that has had all juice 
strained out of it. Spread between layers of cake. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Use any of the white cake receipts, bake in layers 
and put together with chocolate filling, or after you 
have made the cake, the batter can be divided and melt- 
ed chocolate added to one-half. Bake two chocolate 
layers and two white, put together with white or choco- 
late icing. Chocolate icing is made by boiled icing 
receipt, add the melted chocolate. 
26 



Cakes 

WHITE CUP-CAKE 

Take one cupful of butter and two cupsful of pow- 
dered sugar creamed together, one cupful of water or 
milk, add to this three cupsful of sifted flour and two 
teaspoonsful of baking powder. Fold in whites of 
eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor with vanilla. 
Bake in a loaf or layers. 



BOILED ICING 

Beat whites of three eggs to a stiff froth. Boil two 
cupsful of sugar and half-cup of water until it is a soft 
candy. Pour hot candy over the eggs, beating until 
cold enough to spread between layers. 



FIG CAKE 

Cut figs into small pieces, also blanch and chop al- 
monds. Follow any of my receipts for white cake. 
Fill cake pan with layer of batter and layer of figs and 
almonds, making three layers of cake batter and two 
of figs. Bake slowly. Cover with icing and stick 
almonds over the top. Figs and almonds must be 
well floured, as for fruit cake. 
27 



Heart of the Wheat 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE 

Cream one cupful of butter and two cupsful of pow- 
dered sugar, one cupful of water or milk. Add to this 
three cupsful of sifted flour, with two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder. Separate six eggs, the yolks to be 
beaten into the creamed sugar and butter, and the 
whites folded in at the last. Chop one and one-half 
cupsful of hickory-nut kernels, flour well and stir into 
batter. Bake in a slow oven. 



COCOANUT CAKE 

Same as white cup cake, bake in layers. Have a 
fresh cocoanut grated and stir into cooked icing. Spread 
thick between. Reserve some cocoanut and heap on 
top of cake. 



JUMBLES 

''Cream togedier "one cupful of butter and two of 
sugar, break into this two eggs; stir in four cupsful of 
flour and two teaspoonsful of baking powder. Roll 
and cut with cake-cutter. Bake in quick oven. 
28 



Cakes 

FRUIT CAKE 

Make cake from pound cake receipt, using full cup 
of whiskey. Prepare the following fruit, flour thorough- 
ly and mix in cake batter; it will barely hold the fruit 
together: Two pounds of large raisins, seeded; two 
pounds of small seedless raisins, two pounds of best 
currants, washed and dried; two pounds of citron, one 
pound large candied cherries, one pound of candied 
pineapple, one-half pound of blanched almonds, 
chopped. Bake in large pan with chimney in center. 
Flavor with vanilla and nutmeg. If one is not very cer- 
tain of their range, it is best to send so large a cake 
to a baker. 



ALMOND MACAROONS 

To the whites of seven well beaten eggs add one 
and one-half pounds of powdered sugar and four table- 
spoonsful of flour. Add to this one pound of blanched 
almonds, beaten to a paste. Drop upon buttered paper 
about a spoonful of the mixture at such distances apart 
as shall prevent their running together. If the maca- 
roons run into irregular shapes beat in more sugar. 
Flavor with bitter almond. Bake in quick oven. 
29 



Heart of the Wheat 

CRULLERS 

To one quart of flour add two well beaten eggs 
and enough water to make matter the consistency of 
cream add to this one-half cupful of sugar. Have 
cruller irons in deep boiling fat, when they are very 
hot to dip into the batter, then back into the boiling 
lard. When the cruller is a light brown stroke oH 
the iron on to a soft absorbing paper. Sprinkle crullers 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon. 



DOUGHNUTS 

Cream one cupful of butter with two of sugar, add 
three eggs well beaten and two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder. Mix in flour enough to make a light dough, 
roll about an inch thick, cut into small cakes, with piece 
cut out of center. Have a shallow kettle with about 
two pounds of lard, let it be boiling hot, then drop 
in cakes. Drain them in a sieve and roll in powdered 
sugar. If not certain about their being done dart a 
straw through them, and if it comes out free of the 
cake dough they are ready to take up. Flavor to 
tast, but nutmeg, cinnamon and vanilla are generally 
used. 



ROCK CAKE ^^*^^ 

Blanch three-quarters of a pound of shelled almonds 
and chop them very fine, but not to a paste. Add as 
you chop them a little rosewater. Beat to a stiff froth 
the whites of four eggs, and then beat in gradually a 
pound of powdered sugar. Add the almonds to this, 
mixing thoroughly. Flour your hands and make the 
mixture into little cones or pointed cakes. Spread 
sheets of damp thin white paper on buttered tins, and 
put cakes on it, rather far apart. Sprinkle each with 
powdered sugar, bake a pale brown, in a brisk oven. 

MERINGUES 

Whip until very light and dry the whites of five 
eggs. Add to them five large kitchen spoonsful of 
granulated sugar, continuing to beat until sugar is dis- 
solved. Flavor with vanilla. Drop a spoonful at a 
time on greased tins, leaving quite a space between 
them. Bake in very slow oven. 

MARBLE CAKE 

Use receipt for white cake. Divide batter in three 
parts, making one pink, another spiced and the third 
remain white. Drop in cake mould alternately, they 
will run together, giving a motled appearance. Bake 
slowly. 

31 



Heart of the Wheat 

PECAN CAKE 

Make same as hickory-nut cake, using pecans in- 
stead of hickory-nuts. 



CITRON AND CURRANT CAKE 

This cake can be made by any of the white cake 
receipts, by flouring the currants and citron and adding 
to the cake batter. 



JELLY CAKE 

Pound or cup cake makes a good jelly cake. Bake 
in thin layers and use jelly filling. 



MUFFIN CAKES 

Cream one cup of butter with two cups of sugar, 
add half-cup of water, the beaten yolks of five eggs, 
three cupsful of flour and two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder. Fold in the well beaten whites. Bake in 
muffin moulds. Flavor with nutmeg or vanilla. 
32 



Cakes 



CARAMEL FILLING 



Two cupsful of brown sugar, one cupful of cream, 
two teaspoonsful of butter. Cook until it makes a 
soft jelly. Beat until it begins to cool. Spread be- 
tween layers. 



RIBBON CAKE 

Divide white cake batter into three parts. Make one 
part delicate pink with vegetable coloring, to another 
add melted chocolate, leaving the third white. Bake 
in layers. Chocolate layer at the bottom and then 
pink and white. Use ice cream icing. 



WHITE FRUIT CAKE 

Make same as white pound cake, adding the follow- 
ing fruit after it has been cut and floured: One 
pound of citron, two pounds of candied pineapple, 
two pounds of candied cherries, one pound of blanched 
almonds, one pound of pistaschio nuts. Be sure to 
have fruit well floured. Flavor cake with cup of 
brandy before stirring in fruit. Bake in a large cake 
mould, having a moderate oven. 
33 



Heart of the Wheat 

SOFT GINGER BREAD 

Cream together one cupful of butter, one of sugar, 
one of molasses, half-teaspoonful ginger. Set this mix- 
ture on the back of the stove until it is warm, then add 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cupful of boil- 
ing water. Beat in five cupsful of sifted flour. Add 
raisins and currants if desired. Bake in muffin rings, 
and eat hot with rich wine sauce. 



34 



$l?Si 




iejB! 



PUFF PASTE 

Pastry should be made in a cool place and all but- 
ter used in pastry should be washed. Very few cooks 
undertake puff paste, as it can be bought from any 
good caterer, perfectly made, and very reasonable, 
considering the time and labor. The receipt is as fol- 
lows: One cupful of flour with one teaspoonful of 
salt, rub into this one tablespoonful of butter. Make 
into a stiff dough with ice water. Roll out and spread 
with butter, fold the sides and ends over butter. Roll 
again, spreading butter and folding sides and ends. 
Repeat this at least four times. Place on ice and 
get thoroughly chilled before using. 
37 



Heart of the Wheat 

PATTI SHELLS 
Roll puff paste half an inch thick. Cut with large 
biscuit cutter. Place two pieces together, having pre- 
viously cut small round piece from the top layer. 
When cooked they should be very crisp and puffy, 
with quite a space for filling. 



PLAIN PIE CRUST 

Rub one heaping half-cup of lard into two cupsful 
of flour, teaspoonful of salt, moisten to a dough with 
ice water. Place on ice until thoroughly chilled. Roll 
about a quarter of an inch thick and cover pie tins. 



PASTE FOR ROLLS OR DUMPLINGS 

One pint of flour, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, one-fourth of a cup of sugar, rub into this one- 
half cup of lard or butter. Moisten with one beaten 
egg and ice water to make a soft dough. 
38 



Pies 



TRANSPARENT PIE 

Six eggs, the whites and yolks beaten together. 
Cream one cupful of butter and two of sugar, with 
two tablespoonsful of flour. Have smooth, then beat 
in eggs. Add one cup of thick creaim, flavor with 
vanilla. Meringue if desired. 



COCOANUT PIE 

Beat very light four eggs. Add to these the 
yolks of two, reserving whites for the Meringue. To 
the eggs add one cup of sugar and a quart of sweet 
milk. Moisten one tablespoonful of flour with part of 
the milk and stir into the mixture. Have grated one 
quart of fresh cocoanut, add this to the milk and eggs, 
cover pie tins with plain pie crust, brush with white 
of an egg and pour in filling. Bake in moderately 
warm oven. When filling congeals or quivers the pie 
is ready to take out. Make meringue by beating the 
two whites very stiff, adding one large kitchen spoonful 
of sugar to each egg. Spread on top of pie and 
run in oven for a few minutes, until a very light brown. 
A tablespoonful of melted butter can be added to the 
filling of this pie, but as a rule the cocoanut is oily, and 
it is not needed. 

39 



Heart of the Wheat 

UPPER CRUST 

One quart of flour, salt and one teaspoonful of bak 
ing powder. Rub into the flour one cupful of lard. 
Moisten to the consistency of a thick batter with ice 
water. This is delicious for chicken or meat p'es, 
the meat with its gravy is placed in the pan and batter 
poured over the top the thickness of several inches. No 
lower crust is used with this. 

LEMON PIE 

Six eggs, the whites and yolks beaten together. 
Cream one cupful of butter and two of sugar, with 
two tablespoonsful of flour. Have smooth, then beat 
in eggs. Add to this one cup of cold water (never 
milk), the grated rind of one lemon and juice of two. 
Bake in tins covered with plain crust. Whites of four 
eggs for meringue. 



MERINGUES 

To the white of every egg use one kitchen spoonful 
of sugar. Whites must be beaten stiff and dry, sugar 
beaten in until dissolved, flavor to taste. Spread over 
pies or puddings and bake a light brown. 
40 



Pies 
CUSTARD PIE 

Beat together the whites and yolks of five eggs, 
add a cupful of sugar and tablespoonful of flour, then 
a quart of sweet milk. Flavor to taste and bake in 
plain crust. 



SWEET POTATO PIE 

Steam or boil potatoes. When done run them 
through colander. Make a rich custard of four eggs 
to one cup of sugar and quart of milk. Add two 
cupfuls of the potatoes, two tablespoonsful of melted 
butter, flavor with nutmeg and whiskey. 



ORANGE PIE 

Pare Oranges, be careful to remove all the pulp and 
skin. To five oranges add the grated rind of one and 
one cupful of sugar, pour over oranges two table- 
spoonsful of melted butter. Cover pie tins with plain 
pie crust, stick with fork to keep from blistering. 
Bake a light brown, let cool, then put in filling, bake 
for ten minutes in slow oven. Cover with meringue. 
41 



Heart of the Wheat 

IRISH POTATO PIE 

Same as sweet potato pie, using cinnamon, vanilla 
and sherry wine to flavor. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

Made same as above, only adding one tablespoonful 
of dissolved pulverized gelatine to juice of one can of 
Hawaiian pienapple. Can use either sliced or chuncked 
pineapple, but either must be cut in small pieces, or, 
I should say, sliced thin. Cover with meringue. 

LEMON CREAM PIES 

Yolks of six eggs and two cupsful of sugar beaten 
together until very light and creamy. To this add 
three tablespoonsful of flour and two of melted but- 
ter, mixed to a smooth paste. Flavor with grated 
rind of one lemon and juice of two. Have boiling 
one quart of water. Stir into it the above mixture, 
keep up the stirring process until it becomes a smooth, 
lightly jellied paste. The six whites must be beaten 
very stiff and ready to whip in at the last. Pour into 
pie shells that have been previously baked and cooled. 
Cover with meringue. 

42 



Pies 
PRUNE PIE 

Cover pie tins with plain pie crust. Place carefully 
in the bottom a thin layer of prunes, that have been 
boiled very tender, seeded and sweetened. Pour over 
this a filling made same as custard pies. With or with- 
out meringue, as preferred. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

Make same as custard pie, adding two cups of 
pumpkin that has been boiled and pressed through 
colander, and butter size of an egg, flavor with cinna- 
mon and nutmeg. Use plain pie crust. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Cut the rhubarb into pieces an inch long, cook 
quickly with as little water as possible. To each cup 
of rhubarb add one of sugar, cooking again for a few 
minutes. While the fruit is hot add a tablespoonful of 
butter for each cup of rhubarb. Let get cold before 
making pies, as hot fruit poured on to pie dough always 
makes it tough and soggy. Use narrow strips of crust 
criss-crossed for the top of pie. 
43 



Heart of the Wheat 

APPLE PIE 

Peel and core the best cooking apples, cut in thick 
slices. Boil until tender, but not broken, add sugar 
and butter to taste, flavor with cinnamon and nutmeg. 
Bake in rich paste with upper crust. 



BOURBON PIE 

Cream together one cupful of butter with two and 
one-half cupsful of sugar, add to the two tablespoonsful 
of flour one cupful of cream, and four eggs beaten well 
together. Flavor v^dth vanilla and bake in rich paste. 



CHOCOLATE PIE 

Make same as transparent pie, adding melted choco- 
late to taste. Meringue deeply, omitting chocolate 
in meringue. 

STRAWBERRY PIE 

Select large ripe strawberries, let come to a boil with 
as little water as possible (their own juice is better). 
Sweeten to taste, bake in rich paste with top crust. 
44 



Pies 
CHERRY PIE 

Select the best cooking cherries, stone and boil 
for a few minutes in their own juice. Add sugar and 
butter to taste. Fill pie pan well with cherries. Too 
much juice not desirable, adding a tablespoonful of 
flour gives the filling of any fruit pie more body. The 
juice not needed in the pie can be used as a sauce 
to pour over it. 



MINCE MEAT PIE 

Boil five pounds of tender lean beef — must be salted 
while cooking. When cold chop fine, adding two 
pounds of beef suet, also chopped fine, or put through 
meat grinder. Have prepared and mix in the following 
fruits: Two pounds of large raisins, seeded and cut 
in half, two pounds of seedless raisins, two pounds of 
citron, two dozen oranges, one-half dozen lemons, two 
dozen apples peeled and chopped very fine, one cup 
of sugar to every two of the mince meat, or sweeten 
to taste. Flavor with ground cinnamon and a touch 
only of ground cloves. Pack all in stone jars, cover- 
ing top with layer of sugar two inches deep. When 
ready to make pies add one-half cup of whiskey to 
each pie. Bake in rich paste, with upper crust. 



45 



34 19110 



iliililii» 



^iiill-^'ir' 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



