(f 



THF COMET 




H^ 




Class ~X7i5 
Book.. .JL±1 



Copyright }J°. 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



y.io 



THE 

COMET 1910 RECEIPTS 



DEDICATED TO 



THE NATIONAL LEAGUE 



BY 



THE MASSACHUSETTS ASSOCIATION 
OF WOMEN WORKERS 



"TO HAVE AND TO SHARE" 

(league motto) 



^^. 



^+v 



COPTRIGHT, 19IO 
BT 

MASSACHUSETTS ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN WORKERS 



C!.A;>59588 






<s 






t 

r 

CONTENTS 

Page 

Lunch Baskets i 

Salads 15 

Chafing-Dish Receipts 29 

Sweets, Pickles and Preserves 39 

Economical Cakes 57 

Beverages 73 

Miscellaneous 83 



LUNCH BASKETS 



"Z>o as adversaries do in law — 
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends" 

Shakespeare. 



LUNCH BASKET, I 

Egg Sandwiches. Qieese Sandwiches. 

Oatmeal Bread Sandwiches. 
Ripe Olives. Iced Tea. 

Sweet Wafers. 
Box of Strawberries and Powdered Sugar. 



EGG SANDWICHES 

Chop hard boiled eggs up very fine. Mix with them either 
anchovies or pickles. Put on a lettuce leaf and place between 
two slices of well buttered bread. 



CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Pour enough Worcestershire sauce into a bowl with a Neuf- 
chatel cheese to give color and flavor. Rub to a smooth paste 
and spread on very thin slices of Graham bread. 

OATMEAL BREAD SANDWICHES 

Whole wheat or nut bread. 

Cut the bread in thin rounds with a biscuit cutter and spread 
generously with Neufchatel cheese and well chopped olives. A 
dust of paprika added to cheese improves the sandwich. 

3 



LUNCH BASKET, II 

Pork Sandwiches. Watercress-Onion Sandwiches. 

Temperance Punch. 

Afternoon Tea Sandwich or Sweet. 

Fruit in Season. 

Stuffed Dates. 



PORK SANDWICHES 

Slice cold roast pork very thin. Spread a thin piece of bread 
with apple-sauce, put sliced stuffed olives on top of pork and lay 
on apple-sauce, pork side down. Cover with another piece of 
bread, cut thin and buttered lightly. These should be done up 
in paraffin paper. 

WATER-CRESS AISD ONION SANDWICHES 

Chop water-cress and new onions, lay between lettuce leaves 
after being dipped in vinegar, then lay between two pieces of 
thin buttered bread. 

TEMPERANCE PUNCH 

{See receipt among Beverages^) 

AFTERNOON TEA SANDWICHES 

Between two macaroons put cream cheese, previously beaten 
up with a little cream and sprinkled with currants. 

4 



LUNCH BASKET, III 

Stuffed Eggs. Bread-and-butter Folds. 

Sweet Pickles. 
Windsor Sandwiches. Olive and Cheese Bars. 

Pineapple Lemonade. 

Hermits. Fruit. 

A tumbler of Orange Marmalade and Toasterettes. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Boil eggs hard and cut lengthwise. Remove the yolks and 
mix with a little salad dressing. Replace in hollow. Put halves 
together carefully and hold in place with a toothpick. Roll in 
a lettuce leaf. 

BREAD-AND-BUTTER FOLDS 

Remove end from loaf. Spread end of loaf evenly with butter 
that has been creamed. Cut off as thin a slice as possible. Re- 
peat until you have twelve slices. Then butter and cut six slices 
of Graham bread in the same way. Place the Graham slice be- 
tween the two white slices and cut with a biscuit cutter. 

WINDSOR SANDWICHES 

Take six tablespoonfuls each of chopped ham and chicken, 
and mix with five tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise dressmg. Spread 
on thin slices of bread. Remove the crusts and cut in halves. 

OLIVE AND CHEESE BARS 

One twenty-five cent bottle of stuffed olives. One cream- 

5 



cheese, one third of a pound of wahiuts (about a cupful after 
being shelled) chop all together. Then add a little salad dress- 
ing. Spread between thin slices of bread and cut in bars about 
two inches wide. 

HERMITS 

Three eggs. One and a half cups of sugar. One cup butter. 
One cup chopped raisins. One teaspoon soda. Two table- 
spoonfuls water. One half teaspoon cassia. One half teaspoon 
nutmeg. Dissolve the soda in the water, add flour enough for a 
soft dough. Roll and cut in diamond shapes. 



LUNCH BASKET, IV 

Nut-Bread Sandwiches. Chive Sandwiches. 

Lobster Salad. 

Hot Coffee. 

Stuffed Olives. Candied Ginger, 

Wafers spread with Cheese. 



WHITE FLOUR NUT-BREAD 

Two cups sifted Flour. Two teaspoonfuls Baking-powder* 

One quarter cup Sugar. One beaten Egg. 

One teaspoon Salt. One small cup Milk. 

One cup chopped English Walnuts. 

Put in loaf-pan after mixing and let stand twenty minutes. 
Then bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

6 



CHIVES SANDWICHES 

Chop chives fine. Cut several slices of bread; butter one 
slice, then sprinkle it with chives, lay on this another piece of 
bread buttered on both sides, then more chives, repeat this imtil 
you have four layers. Then cut into fingers. This sandwich 
may be made of parsley well chopped. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Prepare the lobster and Mayonnaise as for salad. Roll a 
couple of tablespoonfuls in a lettuce leaf and secure with a tooth- 
pick. These should be done up in parafiin paper. 



The hot coffee should be made carefully in quantity desired 
and carried in a Thermos bottle. 

The wafers buttered first, then spread lightly with either 
cream cheese, or if preferred Roquefort and cream cheese mixed. 
These with candied ginger are very nice for dessert. 

LUNCH BASKET, V 

Bread-and-butter Sandwiches. Ribbon Sandwiches. 

Celery Sticks. Caviar and Egg Sandwiches. 

Potted or Deviled Chicken. 

Pin-money Pickles. 

Cranberry Punch or Lemonade. 

Parisian Sweets or Wiesbaden Prunes. 

Figs and Dates or Cumquat Oranges. 

7 



BREAD-AND-BUTTER SANDWICHES AND CELERY STICKS 

To make a delicious sandwich the bread must be cut very thin 
and both parts, top and bottom, richly spread with butter, which 
has first been creamed. Fill the hollow^ of the celery stalks with 
a mixture of Roquefort cheese and Ma)'onnaise well mashed to- 
gether. These sticks should be cut into short lengths, and after 
being stuffed done up in paraffin paper. 

RIBBON SANDWICHES 

Remove crust from a small rectangular shaped loaf of bread. 
Slice lengthwise. Butter one and spread with minced ham 
moistened with salad dressing. Butter a second slice, spread 
with chopped olives and water-cress (mixed) and lay it on first 
slice, with the unbuttered side next to the ham. Butter and 
spread ham on a third slice and lay unbuttered side next to olives. 
Butter fourth slice and lay butter down on olives. Now it will 
be in loaf shape. Press well together and with a sharp knife cut 
slices from end, which will give you a pretty layer sandwich with 
pink and green filling. Unsalted butter should be used and 
asparagus or lettuce may be substituted for olives. 

CAVIAR AND EGG SANDWICHES 

Slice bread very thin and spread with creamed butter. Put 
caviar on middle very lightly. Grate the yolks of hard-boiled 
eggs. Spread middle of slices of bread with caviar and the 
outer edge with egg. 

8 



POTTED CHICKEN 

This may be bought in cans at any first-class grocery store, and 
helps to make a substantial lunch. It may or may not be needed 
with the rest of this lunch, that depending on the number of 
people to be served. 

PIN-MONEY PICKLES 

CRANBEREY PUNCH 
(Find receipt among Beverages^ 

PARISIAN SWEETS 
{Find receipt among Sweets.) 

Figs, dates and Cumquat oranges may be procured at S. S. 
Pierce's. 

LUNCH BASKET, VI 

Itahan Sandwiches. Rolls and Salad. 

Iced Coffee. 

Petite Beurre Wafers. 

Strawberry Jam and Cream Cheese or Potted Cream. 

Epicure Vanilla Chocolate. 

ITALIAN SANDWICHES 

One cup Raisins chopped. Two tablespoonfuls Orange-juice, 

One cup English Walnuts chopped. Two tablespoonfuls Honey. 

9 



Mix all thoroughly and put between thin slices of buttered 
bread. 

SALAD 

Chop chicken and add an equal quantity of weU boiled rice 
with enough cooked tomato to give it color. Marinate all with 
French dressing. Use also a small quantity of Mayonnaise. 
Put between lettuce leaves and place in roUs from which the in- 
side has been removed. 



lO 



SALADS 



" To make a perfect salad there should be a miser for vinegar' 
a spendthrift for oily a wise man for salt and a madcap to stir the 
whole together P^ 



DIFFERENT RICE SALADS 

Housewives in general do not appreciate the value of rice 
served cold as a salad. When properly cooked, rice is not only 
delicious when served by itself with lettuce and a Mayonnaise, 
or boiled dressing, but may be combined with either fresh or 
cooked vegetables, fish, cold meat or hard-boiled eggs. Such a 
combination makes a salad sufficiently substantial to serve as 
the main dish of a simple luncheon or supper. 

TO BOIL THE RICE 

Rice should be picked over first. Put into a strainer set in cold 
water. Wash with hands, changing water whenever necessary 
until water is no longer cloudy. Soak one hour in cold water, 
then drain and sprinkle slowly into a large saucepan full of boil- 
ing salted water. Boil furiously fifteen minutes, then drain in 
colander and set into cool oven for five minutes to steam. One 
cup of rice will serve six people and requires at least three quarts 
of boiling water and a level tablespoonful of salt. 

RICE AND TOMATO SALAD 

Scald, peel and chill medium sized tomatoes. Cut a cone- 
shaped piece from stem end of each and work in salt and pepper 

17 



with a silver fork. Arrange two or three crisp luttuce leaves in 
each plate, put on them a bed of rice moistened with French 
dressing. Set one tomato on each and fill cavity with boiled or 
Mayonnaise dressing. 

RICE AND LIMA BEAN SALAD 

Marinate separately with French dressing cold boiled rice and 
small canned lima beans, which have been drained of their liquor 
and thoroughly rinsed and dried. Arrange daintily on lettuce 
leaves, and serve with either boiled or Mayonnaise dressing. 

RICE AND EGG SALAD 

Hard cook six eggs by keeping them in water just below boil- 
ing-point for fifty minutes. Cool immediately and cut in quarters 
or sixths lengthwise. Marinate three or four cups of cooked 
rice (cold) with French dressing, using white pepper. Then 
mix with sufficient boiled or Mayonnaise dressing. Arrange in 
a mound on a bed of lettuce leaves, cover top with dressing, and 
set pieces of egg on end around the side. Garnish with pimolas 
cut crosswise. 

FISH AND RICE SALAD 

Six Portions 

Mix and slightly marinate with well seasoned French dressing 
two cups each of cold cooked rice and cold cooked fish. Cod- 

i8 



fish, simmered in water to which a tablespoonful of vinegar and 
a bit of bay-leaf have been added is particularly nice for this 
salad ; but canned salmon or any cold left-over fish may be used. 
After standing fifteen to thirty minutes, mix with sufficient May- 
onnaise or boiled dressing, and mold in individual moistened 
molds. When set, turn out upon a bed of lettuce leaves, put a 
spoonful of Mayonnaise on top and garnish with pimolas cut 
in halves crosswise. 

RICE, TOMATO AND STRING-BEAN SALAD 

Scald, peel, slice and chill tomatoes. Add to them cold cooked 
string beans, and marinate with French dressing, to which has 
been added a drop of onion juice. Let stand at least ten minutes. 
Drain off juice and save. Arrange vegetables on a bed of cold 
cooked rice and lettuce leaves, pour over them first the juice 
just drained off and then a tablespoonful of either French, Mayon- 
naise or boiled dressing. 

CUCUMBER AND EGG SALAD 

Four Eggs (hard boiled). Three tablespoonfuls Mayonnaise. 

Two Cucumbers. One half teaspoon Salt. 

Lettuce. 

Cut cucumbers into small cubes and sprinkle with the salt. 

Let stand about two hours, then drain until dry. Chop eggs 

up and mix with cucumbers and Mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce 

leaves. 

19 



EGG SALAD 

Six Eggs (hard boiled). One quarter teaspoon Onion (finely 

Three large Potatoes (boiled). chopped). 

One tablespoon grated Cheese. One Egg (white). 

Mayonnaise. A few Capers. 

Cut potatoes into dice, chop eggs pretty fine, add onion, capers, 
cheese. Make Mayonnaise highly seasoned. WTiip white of 
egg very stiff and dry, and beat into the Mayonnaise. Mix 
thoroughly with salad and serve at once. 

HOT POTATO SALAD 

One quart fresh boiled Potatoes. Salt. 
One medium size Onion. Pepper. 

Three tablespoonfuls Vinegar. Melted Butter. 

Have ready fine pulp and juice of grated onion. Potatoes 
must be cut into slices or diced. While hot mix into them the 
onion and a generous sprinkling of salt and pepper. Pour on 
enough hot melted butter to thoroughly saturate potatoes, and 
sprinkle with vinegar. Serve hot. 

Three tablespoons of minced cucumber-pickle used instead of 
vinegar is also good. This makes a delicious salad for a supper 
dish in winter served with hot toast. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

Boil one head of cauliflower whole; when done, cool it. 
Boil asparagus; when done, cut off stems and cool tips. 



Serve cauliflower on bed of lettuce leaves decorated around 
with asparagus tips and small shrimps, after the cauliflower has 
been well covered with Mayonnaise dressing. 

SALMON AND CELERY SALAD 

Two lbs. Salmon (canned). One or two heads of Lettuce, 

One pint Celery. Two Eggs (yolks). 

Mayonnaise. 

Flake salmon. Chop celery small. Mix the two well together; 
arrange lettuce around dish, with the mixed salmon and celery 
in a mound in the centre; grate yolks of eggs (hard boiled) on 
top of mound and put amount of Mayonnaise desired around 

the base. 

SPINACH SALAD 

Cook spinach as usual; when cooked put through a meat- 
chopper several times. Then mold it in one large mold and 
put on ice. Serve on lettuce with hard boiled eggs and lemons. 
Sprinkle the form with finely chopped eggs. French dressing. 

BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananas in halves lengthwise. Roll in grated blanched 
almonds. Serve on a lettuce leaf with Mayonnaise dressing. 

HAWAIIAN PINEAPPLE SALAD 
One slice of pineapple for each guest, dotted with bits of plain 



pimentos or stuffed olives. Serve on lettuce leaf with a spoonful 
of Mayonnaise dressing in the center of the pineapple. 

FROZEN MOUSSE SALAD 

One can White Cherries. Two Grape-fruits. 

One small can Pineapple. Six Candied Cherries. 

Four Oranges. Mayonnaise. 

One Egg (white). Lettuce. 

Stone cherries. Skin grape-fruit and oranges, leaving only 
pulp. Cut all fruit pretty fine and then drain in colander. Make 
Mayonnaise with plenty of seasoning in it, and beat into it the 
white of egg which has first been whipped until dry and stiff. 
Mix this with fruit. Put into the top of a melon-mold the can- 
died cherries, then pour in mixture, cover bottom with brown 
paper, then put on cover. Pack in salt and ice for three hours. 
Serve whole on lettuce leaves. 

CHEESE SALAD 

One Neufchatel cheese creamed well and seasoned. One 
quarter of a pint of cream whipped. Stir into cream, finely 
chopped string beans and pimentos, also one tablespoon of dis- 
solved gelatine. Mix all well together and pour into a mold in 
form of ring. Put away on ice for two hours or more. Serve 
on bed of lettuce leaves, and fill middle with grape fruit, which 
has been cut up; and drained of juice. Pour over middle May- 
onnaise dressing. 

22 



BOILED DRESSING BASE WITH RICE SALADS 
Six Portions. 

One half tablespoon Salt. One half tablespoon Flour. 

One teaspoon Mustard. Two Eggs (yolks). 

Few grains Cayenne. One half tablespoon Melted Butter. 

Two tablespoonfuls Vinegar. One half cup Milk. 

Mix dry ingredients and add yolks of eggs, slightly beaten. 
Scald milk, melt butter in it and pour slowly over first mixture, 
stirring well. Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly till 
mixture thickens, adding vinegar gradually meanwhile; strain 
and cool quickly. If dressing curdles through overcooking, set 
dish in pan of cold water and beat vigorously with Dover egg- 
beater. 

This dressing can be substituted for Mayonnaise, is much 
cheaper and keeps better in warm weather. If a sweeter dressing 
is desired for use with fruits, add from one to one and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar to egg-yolks. This dressing may be thinned 
by adding a little extra milk to quantity given. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

One half teaspoon Salt. Two tablespoonfuls Vinegar. 

One quarter teaspoon Pepper. Four tablespoonfuls Oil. 

One quarter teaspoon Mustard. 

Mix ingredients and stir until well blended. 

23 



A WHIPPED CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Whip one cup of thick cream stiff with a Dover egg-beater. 
Add gradually three tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, three of 
grated radish, one half teaspoonful of salt, and one fourth tea- 
spoonful of paprika. Keep very cold until ready to serve. 



A FAMOUS SALAD DRESSING 

Two Eggs (yolks hard boiled). One teaspoon Mustard. 

Two Potatoes (boiled and Two teaspoonfuls Salt. 

strained). Four tablespoonfuls Oil. 

One quarter teaspoon Onion Two tablespoonfuls Vinegar. 

Juice. Anchovy Sauce (to taste). 

Mix well dry ingredients, then add onion juice, oil and vinegar. 
When well blended, add a dash of anchovy sauce. 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

One teaspoonful Salt. Oil. 

One teaspoonful Mustard. Two Eggs (yolks). 

One teaspoonful Sugar. Four tablespoonfuls Vinegar. 

A few grains Cayenne. Four tablespoonfuls Lemon Juice. 

Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar and lemon-juice, pour. in 
gradually oil, while beating with a Dover egg-beater. When 
finished it should be stiff enough to keep shape when dropped 
from spoon. 

24 



A FEW CHAFING DISHES 



'M ma7i can die hut onceP 

Shakespeare. 



HULL RABBIT 

Butter size of an Egg. One cup '(heaping) Flaked Fresh 
One and a half cup Cheese (cut Fish (any kind). 

fine). Salt. 

One Egg well beaten. Mustard. 

One cup (scant) of Milk. Worcestershire Sauce. 

Melt butter and cheese in blazer and season to taste with 
salt, mustard and Worcestershire sauce. Stir to a smooth cream 
and add fish. Heat thoroughly. Serve on toast with sweet 
cucumber pickle. 

WELSH RABBIT 

One half lb. Cheese (cut in small Two teaspoonfuls Mustard. 

pieces). Cayenne pepper. 

One teaspoon Salt. One half cup Ale or Lager Beer. 
One egg. 

Put one half quantity beer into chafing dish with cheese, cover 
and let melt together, using fork to stir occasionally until all 
lumps are melted. Mix seasonings with remaining beer and 
stir in after first mixture is well melted. When smooth (it 
should cook about two minutes) put out flame and add egg which 
has been slightly beaten. Stir this in well and serve quickly on 
hot toast. 

31 



CALrS LIVER A LA ITALIENNE 



Two lbs. fresh Calf's Liver. 

One tablespoon Butter. 

One chopped Onion. 

One teaspoon Salt. 

One quarter teaspoon Pepper. 



One tablespoon Vinegar. 
Six chopped Mushrooms. 
Two tablespoonfuls chopped Pars- 
ley. 
One half cupful Stock. 



Cut liver in small slices. Melt butter in chafing-dish, add 
onion and cook till yellow; add stock, mushrooms, parsley and 
seasonings, cook till mushrooms are tender, add vinegar and 
liver. Do not over-cook liver. Serves six people generously. 



CHILE CON CARNE 



Heaping tablespoon minced 
Onion. 

Three tablespoonfuls Olive Oil. 

Two tablespoonfuls minced Pep- 
pers. 

One half doz. Mushrooms (cut up). 



One half doz. Spanish Olivse. 

minced. 
Saltspoon Salt. 

Two cups Veal or Lamb (minced). 
One gill Stock. 
One cup stewed Tomatos. 



Brown onion with olive oil in the blazer. Add stock, then the 
tomato and peppers previously simmered in kitchen. 

Stir well, and add mushrooms, olives and salt; when boiling 
put in meat. Stir while heating for about five minutes. This is 
a rich Mexican dish much liked by gentlemen. 



32 



EGGS A LA CACIQUE MEXICAN 

One small Onion. One teaspoon Butter. 

One small Pepper. Six Eggs (yolks only and beaten 

Three slices Bacon. light), 

Saltspoon Mustard. One half cup Milk. 

Saltspoon Salt. 

Put butter into blazer with onion, pepper and bacon, fry brown 
and add yolks, milk, salt and mustard. Stir until thick. Serve 
on buttered toast with olives. 

FINNAN HADDIE A LA DELMONICO 

One half lb. Fish. One teaspoonful grated Cheese. 

One cup Cream. Three tablespoonfuls Butter. 

Two Eggs (yolks). One half tablespoonful Flour. 
Salt and Pepper. 

Pick over fish carefully and fry slightly in butter. Pour on 
cream and the yolk of one hard-boiled egg (chopped up), yolk 
of one raw egg, cheese, one tablespoonful butter, flour, salt and 
pepper, and cook ten minutes. Serve on toast. 

MOCK TERRAPIN 

One large can boned Chicken. One lb. Butter. 

One small can Mushrooms. One lb. Flour. 

Two boiled Eggs (hard). Salt. 

One cup Cream. Pepper. 

Make a cream sauce with cream, butter and flour. Stir in 
chicken, mushrooms and chopped eggs just before the sauce 

33 



thickens and jbefore taking from fire. Salt and pepper to 
taste. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK 

Six Eggs (hard boiled). One half tablespoon Worcester- 
One tablespoon Butter. shire Sauce. 
One tablespoon Flour. One cup Cream. 
Ten stuffed Olives. Salt and White Pepper. 

When eggs are cold, slice them. Make a cream sauce of other 
ingredients, adding eggs and ten sliced stuffed olives. This will 
serve four people. 

RINKDUM TEDDY 

Juice one Onion. One half teaspoon Tabasco. 

One and a half cups Tomato One lb. Cheese. 

(strained). Two Eggs well beaten. 

One tablespoon Worcestershire Salt. 

Sauce. Pepper. 
Butter size of Egg. 

Put butter into chafing dish, add seasonings and tomato; 
when hot add cheese. After cheese is melted beat in eggs. Will 
serve six people. 

HAM AND TONGUE TOAST 

One boiled Tongue. One teacup Cream. 

One half teacup chopped Ham. One half teaspoonful mixed Mus- 

One yolk Egg. tard. 

Chop tongue very jBne, mix all well together, simmer five 
minutes and serve on hot buttered toast. 

34 



SWEETS PICKLES PRESERVES 



" Variety s the very spice of life 
That gives it all its flavor.''^ 

COWPER. 



SWEETS 



CHOCOLATE FUDGE 



One cup Cream. One teaspoon Vanilla. 

Two cups Granulated Sugar. One pinch of Salt. 

Two squares Chocolate. 

Put sugar, cream and chocolate (grated) into chafing dish or 
saucepan. Cook fifteen minutes after it has begun to boil 
hard, add salt and keep stirrmg. Take off flame, add vaniUa, 
and beat a few seconds before pouring into buttered pan. Put 
into cold place, carving in squares when it begins to harden. 

This same receipt may be made with one cup of milk and but- 
ter the size of an egg. 

VANILLA CANDY 

Two pounds Granulated Sugar. Butter size of egg. 

Two thirds cup of Water. One teaspoon of Glycerine. 

One third cup of Vinegar. Two tablespoons Vanilla. 

Boil all together except vanilla, without stirrmg, for twenty 
minutes, or until crisp when dropped into cold water. Just be- 
fore turning out to cool add vanilla and a small teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar. This can be puUed beautifully white. Pull 
when it gets cool enough to handle and don't butter your hands, 
it will not stick to them. Cut into sticks with shears. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

One half cup Molasses. Two squares Chocolate. 

One cup Sugar. One teaspoon Vanilla. 

One half cup Milk. Piece Butter size of an egg. 

Boil hard fifteen minutes or until brittle when tried in water, 
stirring to prevent burning. Cover bottom of pan with chopped 
peanuts or walnuts and pour mixture over. 

HOREHOUND CANDY 

Two cups Granulated Sugar. One scant tablespoon Horehound 

One quarter teaspoon Cream (herb). 

Tartar. 

Pour over horehound one half cup boiling water, steep ten 
minutes, strain through cloth. Add one half cup cold water, 
cream of tartar, mix well. Pour over sugar, put on to boil but 
never stir it. Cook to the crackling point. Put into buttered 
dish, score before it gets cold. 



PARISIAN SWEETS 

One pound English Walnuts. One half pound Figs. 

One pound stoned Raisins. One pound Castana Nuts. 

One pound Dates (stoned). A little Preserved Ginger and 

One pound Prunes (stoned). Orange-peel. 

Grind in meat-chopper until fine. Roll to a cake one quarter 
of an inch thick, sprinkle with granulated sugar and cut into dice. 

42 



HICKORY NUT DROPS 

One pound of nut-meats chopped fine. One pound of white 
sugar, the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix all 
together well, put into a pan and bake ; just before it is quite done 
score with a knife so it will break easily. 

TAFFY 

Melt in a shallow dish one quarter of a pound of butter, add 
to it one pound of brown sugar. Stir until it crackles. It should 
boil about fifteen minutes. Flavor, if you like, with vanilla. 

PINOCHA 

Four cups Brown Sugar. One teaspoon Salt. 

One cup Milk. One tablespoon Vanilla. 

One tablespoon Butter. One and a half cups Walnuts. 

Boil together all but vanilla and nuts. Test in cold water. 
When it will form a soft ball take from fire and beat well. Add 
vanilla and nuts. When well mixed together turn into buttered 
pan and score with knife befoEe cold. 

CREAM PEPPERMINTS 

One cup granulated sugar, three tablespoonfuls cold water. 
Boil two or three minutes. Take from fire and add four table- 
spoonfuls of confectioner's sugar and one half tablespoonful es- 
sence of peppermint. 

43 



MOLASSES CANDY 

Two cups Brown Sugar. One pinch Salt. 

Two cups Molasses. One teaspoon Vanilla. 

One scant cup Butter. Three drops Cologne. 

Boil together first four ingredients without stirring; when 
taken off the fire pour into a mound in which make a hole and 
drop vanilla and cologne. This may be pulled until white. 



HARD PEANUT CANDY 

Melt one cup of sugar. Cover bottom of pan with nuts and 
pour sugar over quickly as soon as melted. 



PICKLES 

PINEAPPLE PICKLE 

Twelve Pineapples. Ground Cinnamon. 

Granulated Sugar. Whole Cloves. 

Cider Vinegar. 

The yellow strawberry pines, thoroughly ripe, good size, as 
there is so much waste in the small ones. A dozen will make 
ten or eleven quarts of pickle. 

Pare the fruit, cut out the eyes and cores and cut in slices | of 

44 



an inch thick and then in quarters or eighths according to the 
size of the fruit. 

To each 7 lbs. of fruit take 4 lbs. of granulated sugar, 3 pts. 
or a qt. of sharp cider vinegar, i oz. of ground cinnamon, i oz. 
of whole cloves. Put fruit in a stone jar in layers with spices be- 
tween. Let the sugar and vinegar come to a boil and pour over 
the fruit boiling hot. Heat the syrup three times and pour it 
over the fruit, never letting it stand for more than three or four 
days at the most. The last morning put into glass jars f full be- 
fore adding the hot syrup and sealing. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE 

Pare and take out the seeds of cucumbers. Cut in pieces and 
scald by pouring boiling water over them. Leave on stove for 
some time, then drain them and put them in a jar. Scald two 
quarts of vinegar and add one half pound of sugar; pour over 
cucumbers while hot and add allspice. 

ONION PICKLE 

One peck Green Tomatoes. English Mustard. 

Six Onions. One half pound White Mustard 

Green Peppers. Seed. 

Salt. One ounce Cloves. 

One tablespoon powdered One ounce Cinnamon. 

Ginger. One ounce Black Pepper. 

One quarter pound Sugar. One ounce Celery Seed. 



Vinegar (two bottles). 



45 



Wash tomatoes clean and slice thin. Slice onions thin with 
sufficient number of green peppers to season; put one layer of 
tomatoes and one of onions and peppers alternately, sprinkling a 
little salt between the layers. Prepare the above in the afternoon, 
letting it stand all night in something that will drain well. Take 
the best of vinegar, enough to cover the whole. Mix well with 
the above, English mustard, white mustard seed, cloves, cinna- 
mon, black pepper, celery seed, powdered ginger, sugar. Boil 
imtil tomatoes look clear — about thirty minutes. 



CHOW-CHOW 

One half peck Green Tomatoes. Five quarts Vinegar (cider). 

Two Cauliflowers. Two large heads Cabbage. 

Twenty-five large Cucumbers. Fifteen large Onions. 

One pint Horseradish (grated). One ounce Celery Seed. 

A few small Onions. One half teacup Black Pepper. 

One half pound Black Mustard One half teacup Ground Cinnamon. 

Seed. Two tablespoons Ground Mustard. 

One dozen Green Peppers. Four pounds Brown Sugar. 

Slice and cut up all vegetables but little onions, and salt down 
over night. In the morning put to drip for twenty-four hours, 
pouring a little fresh water over to help drain off the salt. When 
ready to make, mix the spices with five quarts pure cider-vinegar, 
four pounds brown sugar; stir in the vegetables till thoroughly 
mixed and boil slowly for two hours. 

46 



SWEET TOMATO PICKLE 

One peck Green Tomatoes, One cup Salt. 

Six large Onions. Vinegar. 

One half pound Mustard (whole). Two teaspoons each of Cloves, 

Two pounds Brown Sugar. Cinnamon, Ground Mustard, 

One teaspoon Cayenne. Ginger. 

Slice tomatoes and onions, throw onto them one cup salt and 
let stand over night. In the morning drain off. 

Take two quarts of water and one quart of vinegar and boil 
tomatoes and onions for twenty minutes, then drain off. Cover 
with vinegar, add brown sugar, whole mustard, allspice, and 
cayenne. Put all in a kettle together and cook twenty minutes 
slowly. 

CHILI SAUCE 

Twenty-five Tomatoes (not over One quart Vinegar. 

ripe). One teaspoon Mustard. 

Five Peppers (small). Salt. 
Five Onions. 

Chop tomatoes, peppers and onions together very fine. Salt 
to^^taste. Put into vinegar with mustard, and boil one hour. 
Bottle hot. 

PICKLED LEMONS 

Take fine large lemons, with a fork make holes and fill with 
cloves, then cut lengthwise, leaving one half inch at each end of 

47 



the lemon, and rub salt into the gashes. Lay them on platters 
and leave in the sun for forty-eight hours. Have ready some hot 
vinegar, and having placed the lemons in a wide-mouthed jar, 
cover them with the hot vinegar and leave them for a week 
or so. Age improves them. In some cases bringing the lemons 
to a boil in the vinegar is necessary, i.e. if they have become 
very hard from being in the sun. 



SWEET PICKLED PEARS 

Seven pounds Fruit. One ounce whole Cloves. 

Four pounds Sugar. One ounce whole Cinnamon. 

One quart Vinegar. One ounce whole Allspice. 

Spices tied in a muslin bag. 

Make a syrup of sugar, vinegar and spices. Boil until the 
liquor tastes of the spices. 

Pare and add the fruit, using only enough at one time to cover 
the surface of syrup. Boil slowly until the pears are tender to 
the core, but not broken. Remove and refill as before. WheD 
all are cooked, boil the liquor down to a thick syrup and pour it 
over the fruit. 

This is equally good for peaches and ripe tomatoes. 



48 



PRESERVES 

PRESERVED CITRON MELON 

Peel the melon, take out the inside and cut it in such pieces as 
you may like. Then weigh the melon, take the same weight in 
j&ne white sugar, put a little alum in a small quantity of water, 
and boil the melon in it until tender. Take it out on a dish, 
sprinkle sugar over it and between the pieces and let stand over 
night. In the morning drain off the syrup into the preserving 
kettle, and boil until clear. Then put the melon into this syrup 
and boil until scalded through. Take it out on a dish to cool, 
add to the syrup two lemons and a little preserved ginger to flavor. 
Boil syrup again until quite clear. Put the melons into jars, 
pour the syrup over them, not quite boiling hot. Seal the jars 
when cold or hot. 

You may seal jars as you wish, but cotton batting may be used. 
First take a piece of white paper and cover jar, then a piece of 
cotton batting thickness as it unwinds from the roll, and tie it 
down firmly over the top of jar with strong string. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

One half dozen Oranges. Five pounds Sugar, taking out one 

One large Lemon. cup. 

One Grape-Fruit, 

Slice oranges and lemon quite thin, use only juice of grape- 
fruit. Add five pints of water and let it stand 36 hours. Then 

49 



boil three hours, skim out fruit and chop fine. Return to water, 
add sugar and boil twenty minutes, stirring very often. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Slice oranges. For each orange add two cups of cold water; 
let soak over night. Boil rather fast for nearly one hour. Then 
add two cups of sugar for each orange and let simmer for two 
hours. French, 

GRAPE-FRUIT MARMALADE 

Select your grape-fruit carefully — they should be heavy. 
Weigh them with peel on. To every pound of grape-fruit allow 
one pound and a half of white sugar. Peel fruit, taking off as 
much white as possible. Chop the peel very fine, then weigh it. 
Put the peel into a preserving-kettle, and add one pint of cold 
water for every pound of peel. Boil the peel for ten minutes, 
then pour off all the water and put the same quantity of fresh 
cold water over the peel and boil until tender. Cut the pulp 
of grape-fruit into small pieces and add to the peel. Boil all 
together for twenty minutes, then add the sugar and boil all for 
one half hour. 

GRAPE CONSERVE 

One half peck wild grapes. Cook and strain. Add three 
pounds of sugar, two pounds raisins chopped; boil twenty min- 
utes, not more. Add one half pound chopped English walnuts. 

50 



QUINCE BREAD 

Allow one apple for every six quinces. Boil the quinces and 
apples in water until they are soft, then peel and core them, and 
put the pulp through a sieve. To every pound of pulp allow 
one pound of sugar. Clarify the sugar and then put in the pulp, 
adding a little finely grated lemon-peel. Boil until perfectly 
stiff, stirring constantly. Then put the mass into molds or paper 
cases and dry in a cool oven. The " bread " must be stiff enough 
to cut in slices. 

GOOSEBERRY PRESERVES 

One pound ripe Gooseberries. One half gill Water. 

One pound Sugar. 

Dissolve sugar in water and when at boiling point put in fruit. 
Simmer until berries are like a pulp; strain and boil syrup until 
thick. Pour over fruit and seal while hot. 



51 



ECONOMICAL CAKES 



Willful waste makes woeful want. 



AMES CAKE 

One half cup Butter. One and a half cups Flour. 

One cup Sugar. One level teaspoon Baking-powder. 

Three Eggs. One quarter grated Nutmeg. 

One half cup Milk, A pinch of Salt. 

One cup Raisins. One cup Citron. 

Cream butter and sugar; add yolks of three eggs beaten very 
light. Mix and sift dry materials; add to the other mixture, 
also milk and whites of two eggs beaten very stiff. If two cakes 
are desired add one cup of raisins, a little cinnamon and clove to 
one half the mixture, and one cup of citron to the other half. For 
the first ten or fifteen minutes bake in a slow oven, then have the 
oven hotter for thirty minutes. 

FROSTING 

One cup confectioner's sugar, one white of egg. Add sugar 
slowly, beating some time; spread on the cake as soon as cooled. 



CREAM PIE CAKE 

One Egg. One half cup Milk. 

One cup Sugar. One half teaspoon Soda, 

Butter size of Egg. One and a half cups Flour. 

One teaspoon Cream Tartar. Three pinches of Salt 

59 



This is cheap and delicious. Rub butter well into sugar and 
mix with egg. Dissolve soda in milk and add to first mixture. 
Sift cream of tartar and salt well through flour; mix all together 
thoroughly. Bake in three buttered tins in moderate oven for 
about fifteen minutes. 

FILLING FOR THE ABOVE 
One Egg. One quarter cup Flour. 

One half cup Sugar. One and one eighth cups Milk. 

One half teaspoon Vanilla. A little Salt. 

Wet flour with a little cool milk, then stir into cup of boiling 
milk. Add first the egg, then sugar and salt. Stir until thick 
and smooth in double-boiler. Add vanilla when smooth, and 
stir in well. 

FAVORITES 

One cup of Sugar. One half teaspoon Soda. 

One half cup Butter. One and a half cups Flour. 

One half cup Milk. One teaspoon Cream of Tartar. 

Two Eggs (whole). One teaspoon Almond extract. 
One Egg (yolk). 

Cream butter and mix well with sugar, then drop in one egg 
and beat, then another and beat, then the yolk of another and 
beat. Add milk with soda in it. Sift in flour which has already 
been mixed with the cream of tartar; and finally almond extract. 
Bake in buttered pan one half hour in moderate oven. Frosting 
as follows may be used : 

60 



FROSTING 

One Egg (white). One teaspoon Corn-starch. 

One cup powdered Sugar. One teaspoon Lemon-juice. 

One half teaspoon Vanilla. 

Beat white of egg well, add sugar and corn-starch mixed to- 
gether first. Beat all until smooth, adding vanilla at the last 
moment. Spread on cake when slightly warm. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One half cup Butter. One and a half cups Flour. 

One cup Sugar. Two Eggs. 

One half cup Milk. Two and a half teaspoons Baking- 

Two squares Chocolate. powder. 

One half teaspoon Almond extract. 

Cream butter and sugar together, gradually add yolks of eggs 
(well beaten) , then whites beaten stiff, then milk, then flour mixed 
with baking-powder and sifted. Beat thoroughly, add melted 
chocolate mixed with almond. Bake in buttered pan, in a 
moderate oven, for forty minutes. (A cup of English walnuts 
may be added at the last if desired.) 

ELECTION CAKE 

One cup Sugar. One and a half teaspoons Spices 

One cup Sour Milk. (mixed). 

One cup Seeded Raisins. One half cup Butter. 

Two and a half cups Pastry Flour. One teaspoon Soda. 

6i 



Mix butter and sugar, add sour milk with soda beaten into 
it; now add flour mixed with spices; finally mix in raisins, and 
bake in a moderate oven in a greased pan until brown. 

ONE EGG CAKE 

One Egg. One tablespoon Butter. 

One cup Sugar. One and a half cups Flour. 

One half cup Sweet Milk. One teaspoon Cream Tartar. 

One half teaspoon Soda. 

Mix ingredients together in order given, and bake in a buttered 
pan in moderate oven until brown. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE 

One cup Sugar. Butter, size of Egg. 

One Egg. Two teaspoons Cream Tartar. 

One half cup Milk. One teaspoon Soda. 

Two and a half cups Flour. One pint of berries. 

Mix well together in order given. Berries should be rolled in 
a little flour and put in last. Bake in a quick oven in a buttered 
pan. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

One half cup Butter. Two cups Flour. 

One cup Sugar. One half teaspoon Soda (scant). 

One half cup Milk. One half tablespoon Ginger. 

Cream butter and sugar; then put in ginger, milk in which the 

62 



soda has been dissolved, adding the flour last. Turn baking 
pans upside down, wipe clean, butter them, cool in refrigerator, 
and spread the mixture over them very thin. Bake in moderate 
oven, cut in squares and slip from pans. Spread squares with 
Neufchatel cheese at a picnic. 

TEDDY'S ORIGINAL CAKE 

One cup Sugar. One cup Flour. 

One half cup Butter. One pinch Salt. 

Three Eggs. One teaspoon Baking-powder 

One third cup Corn-starch. (heaping). 

One half cup Milk. 

Cream butter and sugar, break into this one egg and beat. 
Sift flour three or four times, the last time add salt, baking pow- 
der and corn-starch. Mix most of milk and second egg together, 
adding flour with third egg and the rest of milk, beating each in 
thoroughly. This should look almost like ice-cream. Bake^Jn 
moderate oven forty or fifty minutes. 

CREOLE CAKE 

Two tablespoons Butter. Two quarts Flour. 

One cup Brown Sugar (large). Orange-Peel. 

Molasses. 

Into the butter rub the brown sugar and flour imtil well 
mixed. Season with a great deal of orange-peel (grated or 
powdered) and mix with enough molasses to roll thin. Cut 

63 



into fancy shapes and put onto buttered tin. Bake in quick 
oven. 

NEW YORK GINGERBREAD 

One cup Butter. Two cups Sugar. 

One cup Milk. Five cups Flour. 

Five Eggs. Two tablespoons Yellow Ginger. 

Three teaspoons Baking-powder. 

Beat butter to a cream, add sugar, then eggs well beaten, then 
milk, next flour which has been well mixed with the gmger and 
baking powder. Beat all together thoroughly and bake in a 
moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. This makes two loaves. 

GRAHAM CAKE 

One half cup Butter. One Egg or not, as you like. 

Two and a half cups Sugar. Two cups Raisins. 

Two cups Sour Milk. One teaspoon Soda. 

Five cups Graham Flour. One half teaspoon Salt. 

One half teaspoon each Allspice, One teaspoon Cinnamon. 
Mace and Clove. 

Cream butter and sugar. Add sour milk with soda dissolved 
in it; then other ingredients, raisins last, and bake in a moderate 
oven. This makes a large loaf. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Four eggs beaten separately. One half teaspoon Baking-powder. 

One cup Sugar. Two thirds teaspoon Vanilla. 

One half cup Potato Flour. Pincb Salt. 

64 



Beat yolks of eggs well, add sugar gradually and beat two 
minutes; add whites of eggs beaten until stiff. When thoroughly 
mixed add other ingredients and beat well. Bake in a moderate 
oven thirty-five to forty-five minutes. 

MOCHA CAKE 

Two Eggs beaten separately. One teaspoon Baking-powder. 

Two tablespoons Butter. One third cup cold Water. 

One cup Sugar. One tablespoon Mocha flavoring. 
One cup Flour. 

Cream butter and add sugar gradually, eggs beaten separately, 
and other ingredients. Bake in two tins. 

FILLING 

One pint cream beaten stiff, enough mocha flavoring to color, 
and scatter nuts on top. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

One half cup Butter, One quarter teaspoon Salt. 

One cup Sugar. One cup Raisins. 

One teaspoon Cinnamon. Two cups Flour (full). 

One teaspoon Clove. 

One cup Apple Sauce with one teaspoon Soda dissolved in warm 
water stirred into it. 

Cream butter and sugar; add other ingredients in order given 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

6s 



FUDGE CAKE 

Two Eggs well beaten. One quarter cup melted Butter. 

One cup Sugar. One teaspoon Vanilla. 

Three quarters cup Flour. Three quarters cup chopped Eng- 
Two squares melted chocolate. lish walnuts. 

Mix all together and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 



FAMOUS SHORT CAKE FROM BARBADOES 

One cup Sugar. One cup Flour. 

One cup Butter. 

Cream butter well and mix thoroughly with sugar and flour. 
Drop on to buttered pans in about the size of a quarter. This 
bakes very quickly and must be watched. Take out of oven 
when edges begin to brown. The oven should not be very hot. 



SNOW CAKE 

One cup Sugar. One half cup Butter. 

One half cup Milk. Three eggs (whites). 

Two cups Flour. One teaspoon Cream of Tartar. 

One half teaspoon Soda. Almond extract. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk with soda dissolved in it; 
then other ingredients, whites of eggs beaten stiff last, and beat 
the whole mixture until very light. Bake forty-five minutes. 

66 



COFFEE CAKE 

One cup Butter. One cup Strong Coffee. 

Two cups Sugar. Five cups Flour. 

One cup Molasses. Two Eggs. 

One teaspoon Soda. One cup Raisins. 

One half teaspoon each Cinnamon, Clove, Mace, Allspice. 

Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs well beaten, flour sifted, 
molasses, soda dissolved in hot water, coffee, spices and raisins. 
Bake in deep cake-pan forty or fifty minutes. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE 

One cup Sugar. Two Eggs. 

One quarter cup Butter. One half cup Milk. 

One half cup Chocolate. One cup Flour (full). 

One teaspoon Baking-powder. 

Cream butter and sugar, add grated chocolate steamed, yolks 
of eggs well beaten. Sift flour and baking-powder, adding alter- 
nately flour and milk. Last put in whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
Bake in two layers about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 

FILLING FOR ABOVE 
One and a half cups Light Brown Butter size of small egg. 

Sugar. One half teaspoon Vanilla. 

One half cup Cream. 

Boil all together for fifteen minutes, take from fire and beat 
until cool, flavor with vanilla. Spread quickly on warm cake. 
This cake is better the second day. 

67 



BEVERAGES 



*// on my theme I rightly thinks 
There are five reasons why men drink, — 
Good wine, a friend, because Fm dry, 
Or lest I should he hye and bye. 
Or any other reason why.^^ 

John Sirmond. 



SWEET GRAPE- JUICE 

Use Concord grapes. Nearly cover them with water and 
cook until soft; dip into a colander and drain. 

Strain the juice through cheese-cloth and return it to the fire, 
adding about one cup of sugar for each quart of juice. Boil 
about five minutes and seal while hot in self-sealing jars or in 
bottles with perfectly fitting corks. 

CLUB LEMONADE 

One lemon to each person to be served. Two cups of water 
and two of sugar to each cup of lemon juice. Dissolve sugar 
in water and boil two minutes, adding lemon juice just before 
taking from fire. Cool and serve when iced. 

SHERRY COBBLER 

Thirty pieces Cut Sugar, Four Oranges. 

Five Lemons. One quart Sherry. 

Squeeze four lemons and two oranges with pulp into separate 
glasses. Dissolve sugar in a little water and boil; add lemons and 
little of rind; stir and add oranges; pour in sherry by fine 
stream, stirring constantly. Fill with shaved ice, adding the 
remaining two oranges and lemon cut in slices, and serve. 

75 



PASSOVER MEAD 

One gallon of Water. One half pound of Sugar. 

One eighth of a Yeast Cake. One half ounce of Hops. 

Oiie half pound of Honey. \ ^ . 

'Boil water, honey, sugar and hops (hops in muslin bag) over 
a very slow fire until the liquid is reduced to one quart. Re- 
move from fire and when lukewarm dissolve the yeast in a 
little of the liquor and mix it thoroughly with the remainder. 
Put in a warm place and allow it to ferment two days. Then 
put in a cool place for a week, filter and put in air-tight 
bbttles. 

MILK PUNCH 

One Egg. One glass Milk. 

Two tablespoonfuls clear cold Sugar. 
Coffee. 

Beat egg thoroughly, add milk, coffee and sugar to taste. 
Shake in a cocktail shaker with ice. 
OYf: ; 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Six Oranges. Four bottles Grape Juice. 

Twelve Lemons. Four bottles Apollinaris. 

One bottle Ginger Ale. One quart Cold Tea. 
Sugar. 

Squeeze the juice of oranges and lemons and strain well. Mix 
with all other ingredients, adding sugar to taste and serve with 
cracked ice. 

76 



SYRUP PUNCH 
One quart Syrup, One ounce Tartaric Acid. 

Equal parts strawberry, raspberry and orange syrup, with 
one ounce Tartaric acid. Two tablespoonfuls of syrup for a 
glass of Apollinaris or water. 

TEMPERANCE PUNCH 

Two quarts Ginger Ale. Three pounds Cut Sugar. 

Twelve Lemons. 

Mix lemon-juice with sugar and stand on ice in Mason jar for 
two hours before using. 

Pour ginger all over syrup and serve. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

To two pints of water add two cups of sugar and boil for ten 
minutes. Add to this two cans of pineapple which has been 
grated, and the juice of two lemons. Cool, strain and add two 
quarts of cold water. 

MEAD 

Three pounds Brown Sugar. Four ounces of Tartaric Acid. 

One pint Molasses. Two ounces Checkerberry. 

Three pints Boiling Water. 

Mix all together and bottle. When served add about a table- 
spoon of the syrup to a glass of ice-water in which a very little 
soda has been dissolved. 

77 



CRANBERRY PUNCH 

One quart Cranberries. Juice of nine Lemons. 

Two quarts Water. 

Boil one half hour, strain and add as much sugar as there is 
liquid. Boil ten minutes, adding four quarts of water. When 
lukewarm, add juice of nine lemons. 

(Shredded pineapple may be added to taste.) 

KOUMYS 
Three quarts Milk. One quart boiling Water. 

Half pound White Sugar. One Yeast-Cake. 

Dissolve sugar in hot water, add rich sweet milk, when the 
temperature of milk is ioo° add one cake of compressed yeast 
which has been dissolved in a little cold water. Put in beer- 
bottles with patent stoppers, set in a warm place for two hours, 
shaking occasionally. Then put on ice, turning bottles upside 
down. Will be ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

One quart and one gill boiling water. 

Rub smooth in cold water two tablcspoonfuls oatmeal. Boil 
for a few minutes in the water a dozen and a half stoned raisins. 
WTiile the water is boiling stir in carefully the oatmeal, which 
must be perfectly free from lumps. Add five even teaspoonfuls 
of sugar and one even teaspoonful of salt. Boil steadily for one 
half hour, stirring all the time. Add a very little nutmeg. 

78 



MISCELLANEOUS 



We must eat to live and live to eat.^^ 

' Henry Fielding. 



ESCALLOPED CABBAGE 

One half a Cabbage. Bread Crumbs. 

One cup White Sauce. Salt and Pepper. 

Boil Cabbage until tender and cut very fine. Put into but- 
tered baking dish with first a layer of cabbage well salted and 
peppered, then a layer of white sauce. Repeat this. Cover last 
layer with buttered bread-crumbs, salt and bake until brown. 
Celery may be scalloped in the same way. Also cauliflower. 

SPANISH RICE 

One cup Rice. One half Bay-Leaf. 

One rounding tablespoon Lard. One tablespoon Sugar. 

Two cups canned Tomato. One quarter Onion. 

One sweet green Pepper. Three quarters teaspoon Salt. 

One quarter teaspoonful White Few grains Cayenne. 
Pepper. 

Heat lard in a heavy frying pan. 

Put in onion and green pepper cut in thin strips. Fry until 
light brown, remove, add rice and brown delicately. Put in 
tomato and seasonings; cover and simmer until moisture is 
nearly absorbed. After this, add a little boiling water from time 
to time and simmer until the rice is soft, which takes from three 
quarters of an hour to an hour. 

85 



BAKED HOMINY 

One cup cooked Hominy. One half Egg. 

One half cup -i- or — Milk. Cayenne, Salt and Pepper to taste. 

Free hominy from lumps and mix thoroughly with milk. Add 
either hot or cold to egg as in making a custard. Season highly 
and turn into buttered baking dish. Sprinkle top with seasoned 
buttered crumbs, or with bread cubes. Grated or sliced cheese 
may be used or not before crumbs are put on top. Bake in a 
moderate oven until brown. 



BAKED CORN WITH GREEN PEPPERS 

One can Corn. One Green Pepper. 

Bread Crumbs. One teaspoonful Butter. 

Salt. 

Chop pepper very fine, mix with one can of com. Salt to 
taste. Put into buttered baking dish with bread-crumbs on top, 
dotted with butter. Bake until brown in moderate oven. Takes 
about one half hour. 



STEAMED CHICKEN 

The best way to cook a young chicken is to stuff it the day 
previous to cooking. 

Steam two hours, remove, baste with butter and brown in a 
hot oven. The meat will be moist and very tender. 

86 



ENTIRE WHEAT NUT-BREAD 

Two cups scalded Milk. One cup chopped English Walnuts. 

One third cup Molasses. ' One half Yeast Cake dissolved in 

One teaspoon Salt. one quarter cup lukewarm water. 

Four and two thirds cups Entire Wheat Flour. 

Add molasses and salt to milk; when lukewarm add dissolved 
yeast-cake, flour and nuts. Beat well and let rise to double in 
bulk. Knead and put into two greased pans; let rise and bake. 



NUT LOAF 

A. One and a half cups Nuts, 

One stalk Celery, I ^^p together. 

Two tablespoonfuls Parsley, j 
One small Onion, 

Add 

B. One cup cooked Rice. 
Two cups Bread Crumbs. 

One tablespoonful Olive Oil,) ^^^ together. 
One tablespoonful Flour, ) 

Add 
One and a half cups hot Milk and cook. 

Add A to B, also 2 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), 
salt and pepper to taste. Bake three quarters of an hour. 
Serve hot with tomato or Hollandaise sauce. The bread is also 
good when cold. 

87 



FRIED GREEN TOMATOES 

Take tomatoes just beginning to ripen, slice, roll in cracker 
dust, and fry in bacon drippings in a frying-pan. 

HALIBUT A LA POULETTE 

Shape pieces of halibut; sprinkle with juice of one lemon, salt 
and pepper. Put on each piece a thin slice of onion ; cover, and 
set away for one hour. Melt one half cup butter in a soup-plate; 
remove onion from fish and dip each piece in the butter till thor- 
oughly covered. Dredge well with flour and bake twenty min- 
utes in a hot oven. Serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

SOUTHERN HOMINY BREAD 



One quart cold boiled Hominy. Three beaten Eggs. 
One pint Milk. Butter size of egg. 

One saltspoonful Salt. 

Mix thoroughly and let come to a hard boil; when boiling 
furiously pour into two pie-pans and bake in moderate oven. 
Serve with syrup or sugar. 

PEANUT SALAD 

Soak a cup of peanut meats in olive oil; drain and mix lightly 
two cups finely cut celery and one dozen chopped olives. Serve 
with Mayonnaise dressing. 



CANTON SALAD 

Select s^x^rm red apples. Scoop out the pulp leaving shells 
one half inch thick. Rub the inside of each with lemon to pre- 
vent discoloring; put in a cool place until ready for use. Cut 
the inside taken from apples into cubes to make one pint. To 
this add one half pound pecan nuts broken in pieces and one 
quarter potind crystallized or preserved ginger cut into bits. 
Mix these with Mayonnaise dressing and fill the apples rounded 
above the top. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



AFTERNOON TEA CRACKERS 

1. Split Boston crackers, soak twenty minutes in ice-water; 
butter and put in very hot oven to brown, watching carefully to 
prevent burning. 

2. Butter butter-thin crackers, put a marshmallow on top 
and set in oven to brown. 



CHEESE SOUFFLfi (Hors d'ceuvre) 

Beat the white of two eggs stifif, add one teaspoon of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Put on small pieces of round freshly made 
toast the size of a half dollar. Heap as high as it will stand, 
and put in a hot oven. As soon as it becomes hard enough to 
hold its shape, sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese over the top. 

89 



Let bake a few minutes longer and serve very hot. If allowed 
to stand it will drop and be spoiled. Five minutes will do for 
cooking. Serve with lettuce alone or in combination with an- 
chovies. 

FRENCH PEAS IN A FRENCH WAY 

Take about two quarts of new green peas (the smallest are the 
best), wash and strain. Put in a four-quart saucepan with three 
ounces of soft butter, and mix together. Add twelve small 
peeled onions, two hearts of lettuce, some parsley, three ounces 
more of butter. (No water, the lettuce supplies all the moisture 
needed.) Cook slowly about one hour. Remove the lettuce 
and parsley, but serve the onions with the peas. While cooking 
cover the saucepan with a soup-plate filled with water. 



STUFFING FOR RAVIOLIS 
Proportions for ten people 

Make a paste with one lb. of sifted flour and one glass of cold 
water salted to taste. Spread this paste with rolling pin into 
two thin sheets the same as for noodles. 

One whole mutton-brain. 

One small handful of parboiled spinach. 

Put in a saucepan with a little butter, add a little chicken, veal 
and braised beef. Have the whole chopped very fine, stirred 

90 



and well mixed, until thoroughly blended. Then remove from 
the fire and put in a mixing bowl; add one fresh egg, one tea- 
spoon grated Parmesan cheese and mix well with a wooden spoon. 
Form this mixture into little mounds or balls on one of the sheets 
of paste and cover with the other, first moistening the paste with 
a little cold water. Press with fingers around each mound until 
well shaped, and cut out. 

Cook the raviolis in boiling salted water. Enough water must 
be used to prevent their sticking to one another. Remove with 
a skimmer and lay in a baking dish, the bottom of which should 
be glazed with juice from the braised beef. Sprinkle with grated 
Parmesan or Swiss cheese. Pour around them a little more 
juice from the braised beef. Cook in a hot oven a few minutes 
without browning the paste. The glaze or juice from the braised 
beef is the best for raviolis, but the juice from the other meat may 
6e used. 

CHICKEN PETIT TRIANON 

Cut up a tender young chicken as for a stew. Butter a cas- 
serole dish thoroughly, and put chicken into it dark meat first; 
cover thoroughly with a hash made of finely chopped onions, 
parsley, bay-leaf, mushrooms, salt, pepper, cayenne. Cook in a 
hot oven for an hour. Serve chicken in a deep platter, strain 
sauce, and add to it two wineglasses of sherry, pour over chicken 
and serve hot. This should be cooked in casserole without a 
cover. 



NOICCHIS PARISIENNE STYLE 

Prepare the dish as follows: 
Put in a saucepan 

Three ounces of Butter. One pinch of Salt 

One glass of Cold Water. 

Let it come to a boil, then add four ounces of flour and stir with 
a wooden spoon for a minute or two until the mixture thickens. 
Then add six eggs, three oimces of grated Parmesan cheese and 
a pinch of white pepper. Let partly cool and put the mixture in 
a pastry bag, squeezing it out of bag in form of little individual 
balls which you drop into boiling water. When the balls have 
hardened, place them on a strainer, then arrange them side by 
side in a buttered saucepan. Sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese 
between each layer and cover the whole with a little bechemel 
sauce and again sprinkle over the sauce a little grated Parmesan 
cheese and add a little melted butter and cook in a hot oven for 
about ten minutes until golden brown. 



92 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

lllll|i|l!liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir~^^ 




014 488 657 4 



<?:=*. 






A . ^^_ 









mm 



r.^H 



.■Mr 






