T X 








"ulljftt mg (3lh SCenturky Ijnmf. 
— Foster 



Candlelight Tea 



U Co J Co. 




A BOOR OF RECIPES 

By UNA DUNUP 



Aathcr o( 

'HEART OF THE WHEAT" 

"OCT OF THE BLUE GRASS' 



[COPYRIGHTED 

1910 



Press of Transylvania Printing Compeny, 
Lexington, Kentucky. 






s^ 



% 



^Cl, A 275395 



^ 






B^attbtutrlfFB 




]ftierages( 



EGGNOGG 

Separate three eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
and add the yolks, with three cups of granulated 
sugar, beating all until creamy. To this add, very 
slowly, and only a small quantity at a time, one pint 
of best whiskey, stirring briskly. Dash with one-half 
pint of imported Jamaica rum. Immediately before 
using add one quart of ice cream, one quart of sweet 
cream, and one quart whipped cream. Vanilla to 
taste. Serve in toast cups. 



CLARET CUP 

To one quart of claret, add the juice of two 
lemons, one-half cup of sugar, and one-half cup of 
whiskey. Serve in toast cups over crushed ice. 



Candlelight Tea 

NAVY PUNCH 

Take one quart of Jamaica rum, one quart of cham- 
pagne, the juice of eight lemons, the grated rinds of 
three, one and one-half pounds of sugar, one quart 
of hot tea, made from eight teaspoonsful of tea. Upon 
the lemons and sugar, pour tea and allow to stand 
half an hour, stirring often. Then add the rum. 
Place in punch bowl. When iced and ready to serve 
add the champagne. 

APPLEJACK 

Peel and core one-half dozen large cooking apples; 
fill the center with sugar, cover with three pints of 
water and let boil until tender, but not broken. While 
hot place apples and juice in punch bowl with a few 
whole cloves, cinnamon, mace and alspice. Add to 
this one pint of brandy and a dash of rum. Serve 
either warm or cold. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

One cup each of lemon and orange juice, one pint 
of grape juice, one pint of grated Hawaiian pineapple, 
two cups of any fruit minced. Sugar or sugar syrup 
to taste. Serve very cold, with crushed ice. 

10 



Beverages 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH 

To the juice of eight lemons add one pint of sugar; 
when thoroughly dissolved, add tw^o quarts of some 
good effervescent water, and two quarts of cham- 
pagne. Pour over block of ice in punch bowl on 
which has been placed a couple of bunches of hot- 
house grapes (green preferred), and several pink roses. 



LEMONADE 

One quart of boiling water, juice of three lemons, 
with a very little of the grated rind, and one-half pint 
of sugar. When cold make very chill with crushed ice. 



CHERRY SHRUB 

Make a syrup of two pounds of sugar and two 
quarts of water. Put through a fruit press one gallon 
of pitted cherries, add this to the syrup and boil ten 
minutes; add the juice of two lemons. Strain and 
serve when very cold, with a few of the fresh cherries 
floating on top. 

11 



Candlelight Tea 

ORANGE COCKTAIL 

Mix the juice of two lemons with that of three 
oranges and the grated peel of one orange. Add to 
this one-half pint of sherry; strain and chill, then fill 
cocktail glasses with the mixture, put a maraschino 
cherry in each. A small amount of sugar can be added 
to the lemon juice if preferred. 



ORANGEADE 

To one quart of water add the juice of three 
oranges, the grated rind of one orange, juice of one 
lemon and one-half pint of sugar. Pour in glasses 
half filled with crushed ice. 



CREAM PUNCH 

Cream punch is much better made of ice cream, as 
it is not near so apt to curdle. If made of plam cream 
it should be thoroughly chilled before adding whiskey- 
When made of ice cream, stir in whiskey to taste. If 
sweet cream is used, add sugar first, then whiskey^ 
slowly to taste. 

12 



Beverages 

MINT JULEP 

Each glass of julep should be made separately. 
Take about six fresh mint leaves, crush in bottom of 
glass, add one teaspoonful of sugar, fill within tv^^o 
inches of top with crushed ice, then fill glass with 
whiskey, put on cover at once and let stand for five 
minuies. When cover is removed the glass will be 
frosted. Julep should always be made in the tall 
narrow glass, using metal cover. 



FRUIT FIZZ 

All fruit fizz is made by pouring appollinaris water 
over the fruit syrup that has already been made by 
boiling one quart of fruit juice with a pint of sugar. 
This fruit syrup can be made in season and put up 
in Mason jars or bottled. Serve in tall slender glasses 
with crushed ice. This is much improved by a dash 
of sherry. 

FRAPPE 

Pineapple, orange or lemon sherbert, either plain 
or with minced fruit. Turn out in punch bowl and to 
one gallon of sherbert pour over one gallon of appolli- 
naris water. 

13 



Candlelight Tea 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH 

To two cans of Hawaiian pineapple add juice of 
four lemons, two cups of sugar, three quarts of appolli- 
naris; either pour over block of ice or chill with one 
quart of pineapple sherbert. The slices of pineapple 
must be cut in small pieces. A few maraschino cher- 
ries, without any of the juice, will add to the beauty 
of the punch. Always use the Hawaiian pineapple, 
for none other has the fresh fruit flavor. 



PINEAPPLEADE 

To one-half gallon of water add one cupful of 
sugar, dissolving thoroughly, to this add one large can 
of Hawaiian pineapple (after cutting fruit into small 
pieces), and the juice of three lemons. Serve over 
crushed ice. If in strawberry season, add from two 
to three selected strawberries to each glass. 

RHINE CUP 

To a quart of well-made lemonade add a quart of 
Rhine wine. Serve from a pitcher with crushed ice 
and thin slices of lemon. Appolinaris water may be 
used in making the lemonade, and will make it much 
more delicious. 

14 



Beverages 

MARASCHINO PUNCH 

Quart bottle of maraschino cherries, two quarts of 
appollinaris lemonader, one can of Hawaiian pine- 
apple cut in small pieces, one pint of sherry. Mix 
well and pour over block of ice. Dash with Jamaica 
rum. Serve in small punch glasses. 



RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Place raspberries, well crushed, in jar, one-half 
pint of vinegar to each gallon of berries. Cover 
and let stand one week; then strain and to each pint 
of juice add one pint of sugar. Place on fire and 
bring to a boil. Strain and bottle. Serve ovei 
crushed ice. 



UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE 

Wash the grapes, drain well and pop out of 
shells. Place them in a kettle, and barely cover with 
water, allowing them to boil twenty minutes Cool 
and strain, and to each pint of juice add one-'ialf 
cup of sugar, boil again, strain through flannel. Bottle 
while hot. 

15 



Candlelight Tea 

TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE 

One heaping teacupful of Moca and Java coffee; 
stir into it the half of the white of one egg and wet 
with cold water, mixing well. Scald the coffee-pot, 
put in the mixture and pour over it two quarts of cold 
water; let boil for five minutes over a very hot fire; 
stir down and pour out a very little of the coffee and 
pour back again to settle it, or add a little cold water; 
set back to keep hot, but not boil. This makes deli- 
cious, clear coffee. 



DRIPPED COFFEE 

Put one teacupful of ground coffee into the upper 
division of the coffeepot or perculator, pour over it one 
quart of boiling water. Keep perfectly hot, but not 
allow to boil. If it drips through very quickly, it 
should be poured through a second time. 



ICED TEA 

The tea must be made as above in the morning 
of the day it is to be used. Put it into glass or china 
vessel to cool. Serve over crushed ice with a slice of 
lemon, and a dash of claret, if desired. 
16 



Beverages 

TEA 

Scald well the tea-pot; put in a teaspoonful of tea 
for each person; pour over a small quantity of boiling 
water and let stand to draw, then pour on the desired 
amount of freshly-boiled water. The water must be 
boiling and tea made quickly. 



CHOCOLATE 

Scrape fine one ounce (one of the small squares) of 
Baker's chocolate, add to this two tablespoonsful of 
sugar, and put into a double-boiler with one tablespoon- 
ful of hot milk. Stir over hot fire until perfectly smooth 
and glossy, then stir into it a quart of boiling milk, 
mix thoroughly and serve at once. Never allow it 
to boil after the chocolate is added. 



BREAKFAST COCOA 

Into a breakfast cup put a teaspoonful of the pow- 
der, add a tablespoonful of boiling water, and mix 
thoroughly, then add boiled milk and sugar to taste. 
Boiling for a few minutes will improve it. 

17 



^ 



Candlelight Tea 



GRAPE WINE 

Take the white grape when fully ripe, pick from 
the stems, pound to a pulp, put them into large stone 
jar, pour over them half as much water as there are 
grapes, cover with cheese cloth and let stand until next 
day, then squeeze out and strain the juice. Mix 
three pounds of granulated sugar and the whites of 
two eggs to each gallon of juice, boil a few minutes 
and skim. When cold, put into a keg until through 
fermenting. Bottle it, seal the corks, keep in cool 
place, or bury in sawdust. 



BLACKBERRY WINE 

To every three pints of berries add one quart of 
water. Let stand twenty-four hours, strain through 
cheese cloth. To each gallon of juice add three 
pounds of granulated sugar. Put into a wine keg 
until it is through fermenting, which will be two or 
three weeks. Pour into bottles and seal, keep in 
cool place. 

18 



Beverages 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL 

Let the berries come to a boil, then squeeze out the 
juice, adding to each gallon three pounds of sugar, 
boil for five minutes. While boiling drop in a bag 
containing ground cinnamon, mace, allspice and cloves. 
When cool add one-third whiskey, bottle and seal. 



CLARET PUNCH 

To one quart of rich lemonade add one quart of 
claret, half-pint of whiskey. Pour this mixture over 
block of ice, which has been placed in punch bowl. 
Minced fruit and maraschino cherries improve any 
punch. 



GRAPE FRUIT FREEZE 

Juice of four grape fruit and of five oranges, three 
cups of sugar, well dissolved pour over crushed ice 
and then add one bottle of appolanaris. 

19 



Candlelight Tea 

ROMAN PUNCH 

To make one gallon take two quarts of water, three 
pounds of sugar, add one pint of imported Jamaica 
rum, the juice of five lemons, the grated rind of one, 
minced candied or maraschino cherries and Hawaiian 
pineapple. Then freeze. It will take a good hour 
to freeze. 



CHAMPAGNE ICE 

The juice of one dozen lemons, two quarts of water, 
two quarts of granulated sugar, have sugar well dis-. 
solved. Freeze until the consistency of mush. Pour 
in a pint of champagne and freeze hard. 



APRICOT ICE 

Take quart can of apricots, add one quart of water 
and juice of two lemons. Thoroughly dissolve in this 
one quart of sugar, strain through a sieve and freeze. 

20 



Beverages 

ORANGE AND LEMON ICE 

Either are made the same as lemon or orangeade, 
only to every quart of liquid there must be same 
quantity of sugar well dissolved. The w^hite of one 
egg well beaten may be added to the half-gallon. 

PINEAPPLE ICE 

Take two cans of Hawaiian pineapple, remove frorr^ 
the juice and chop line. Make a thick syrup by boil- 
ing together three pints of sugar and two of water. 
Let boil a few minutes, and while hot pour over it the 
chopped pineapple, adding the juice in the can. After 
it cools, add the white of one egg well beaten, and one 
pint of water. Freeze until firm. 



FROZEN FRUIT 

Take half-dozen bananas cut fine, half-dozen oranges 
cut fine, one can Hawaiian pineapple chopped; use 
all the juice from pineapple and oranges, mix this well, 
add one pint of water, one half-pint of sherry and one 
quart of sugar. When it begins to freeze stir in the 
white of one egg well beaten. 

21 



^antituicl^^sf 




anbtuicfi^si 



CHICKEN 

Follow recipe for chicken salad, only cutting 

chicken and celery very fine. Place between slices 

of bread just before serving. Mayonnaise must be 
used liberally. 



ANCHOVY 

Two leaspoonsful of anchovy paste, add half-cup 
of mayonnaise dressing, and three hard boiled eggs 
chopped fine. Spread between thin slices of bread. 



OYSTER 

Fry select oysters in very hot fat after being dipped 
in egg and cracker crumbs. Place between slices of 
bread with lettuce leaf, first spreading bread with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

25 



Candlelight Tea 



EASTER 

Cut hard boiled eggs into slices, add shredded 
pamentoes, pour over this a stiff mayonnaise. Spread 
on bread quarter oi an inch thick. 



EGG 

Lay slices of hard boiled eggs and finely chopped or 
ground ham, between slices of bread that have been 
spread generously with mayonnaise dressing. 



TOMATO 

Peel and slice good solid tomatoes, season with 
salt, pepper and paprika. Spread slices of bread with 
mayonnaise, lay on a lettuce leaf, then the slice of 
tomato, cover with parmesan cheese, then place on 
upper slice of bread. This sandwich should be made 
just before serving. 

26 



Sandwiches 



LETTUCE 

Spread thin slices of bread with mayonnaise, be- 
tween these place crisp white lettuce leaf, a few nut 
kernels may be added. 



NASTURTIUM 

Select crisp nasturtium leaves of one size, and the 
delicate green ones. Spread thin slices of bread, that 
have been cut round and about the size of the leaves, 
with highly seasoned mayonnaise, lay on leaves. Serve 
on sandwich dish, garnish with nasturtium leaves and 
blossoms. 



CELERY 

Take half-cup pecan kernels, one cup of finely 
chopped celery. Mix with mayonnaise dressing that is 
highly seasoned with cayenne and paprika. Soread 
between thin slices of bread, either with or without 
lettuce leaves. 

27 



Candlelight Tea 



CUCUMBER 

Slice cucumbers a quarter of an inch thick. Spread 
thin slices of bread with mayonnaise, placing lettuce 
leaf on each side with cucumber between that has been 
dipped in mayonnaise. This sandwich must be served 
at once. 



SARDINES 
Carefully bone the sardines, chop very fine, mix in 
the yellows of two hard boiled eggs to each box. 
Moisten with lemon juice and spread between thin 
bread or crisp crackers. 



NEUFCHATEL 

To four cakes of neufchatel add one pint of deviled 
olives, and one-quarter pound of pecans; break cheese 
with fork, add olives minced and nut meats broken in 
four or five parts. Cover all with mayonnaise and 
spread between slices of bread. Decorate top with 
whole nut meats and slices of olives, 
28 



Sandwiches 



GREEN PEPPER 
Take sweet green peppers, remove seeds and chop 
fine, add a tiny bit of celery and onion. Mix with 
mayonnaise and spread between thin slices of bread. 



OLIVE 

Chope olives fine, add pecan kernels and a touch 
of pamentoes. Mix all with mayonnaise and spread 
between bread. 



WALDORF 

Peel and chop apples, adding equal amount of 
chopped celery. Mix with mayonnaise and spread 
between thin bread. 



WATERCRESS 

Spread thin slices of bread with heavy mayonnaise, 
lay fresh leaves of watercress between. 
29 



Candlelight Tea 



CLUB SANDWICHES 

Cut fresh bread a quarter of an inch thick, toast 
quickly over red coals; spread the toast with thick 
mayonnaise, lay on slices of tender white meat, of 
chicken or turkey, then fresh crisp lettuce leaves and a 
slice of broiled breakfast bacon; over this spread a lib- 
eral share of mayonnaise and press on the upper side 
slice of toast. 



DEVILED HAM 
Mix into one small can of deviled ham the yolks 
of two hard boiled eggs that have been made into a 
soft paste with vinegar ; add to this some finely chopped 
pickle. Spread between thin slices of bread. 



PATE DE FOIE GRAS 

One cupful of pate de foie gras, mixed with equal 
amount of chopped chicken. Spread between slices 
of buttered bread. 



30 



Sandwiches 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 

Hull and remove skins from fresh roasted peanuts; 
put nuts through meat grinder. Make a cooked may- 
onnaise of three eggs beaten very light, one-half cup 
of water, three or four spoons of vinegar, one spoonful 
of sugar and butter size of an egg, salt and cayenne 
pepper. Mix all well and cook in double boiler until 
it thickens. When cool stir into ground peanuts. 
Spread both slices of bread with the peanut paste and 
place lettuce leaf between, pressing closely. This makes 
a delicious sandwich. 



FRUIT SANDWICHES 

Orange marmalade or currant jelly spread between 
very thin slices of bread make a good sandwich for 
afternoon tea. 



TRUFFLE 

To equal parts of canned truffles, ground chicken 
and chopped sweetbreads, add mayonnaise to make a 
consistency, to spread on thin slices of bread. 
31 



Candlelight Tea 



SALMON 

To one can of salmon, add one cup of bread crumbs, 
one-half cupful of chopped pickle, moisten all with 
mayonnaise, spread between thin slices of bread. 



PECAN 

One cupful pecans chopped fine, one-half the amount 
of celery also chopped; mix well with mayonnaise high- 
ly seasoned with salt, cayenne and paprika. Spread 
between bread. 



BERNAISE 

Thin slices of brown bread, spread with any soft 
cheese, which may be grated or mashed and softened 
with mayonnaise. Lay on a crisp lettuce leaf and 
press together. 

32 



Sandwiches 



BERNE 

Thin slices of Swiss cheese, pressed between very 
thin brown bread that has been lightly spread with 
French mustard. 



GRUYERE 
Use Gruyer cheese and make same as above. 



SAUSAGE SANDWICH 

Chop sausage meat that has been fried a ni:c 
brown, place between thin slices of bread, securing 
the ends with small wooden toothpicks. Have tw,- 
well beaten eggs ready and add to them one-half cup 
of milk, salt and small dash of cayenne. Dip sanJ- 
wiches in egg mixture and fry in equal parts of butter 
and lard, which must be very hot. 

33 



Candlelight Tea 



ENGLISH WALNUT 

Equal parts of English walnuts chopped and grated, 
Swiss cheese, a few capers, moisten with mayonnaise 
or French dressing. Spread between brown bread. 



WINDSOR SANDWICHES 

Mix one cupful of chopped chicken meat with one 
of sweetbreads, add to this three or four tablespoonsfu! 
of mayonnaise. Spread this mixture between thin 
slices of whole wheat bread. 



CHEESE SANDWICH 

Fry on one side thin slices of bread that have been 
dipped in egg and milk. Turn over and sprinkle on 
the brown side grated cheese that has been seasoned 
with a little cayenne. When the under side is brown 
the cheese on top will be melted. 
34 



Sandwiches 

RAREBIT SANDWICH 

One cup of milk heated to boiling in chafing dish, 
stir in slowly one pound of ground cheese, when thor- 
oughly melted and creamy, add two well beaten eggs; 
season with salt, cayenne and paprika, and two table- 
spoonsful of Worchesteshire sauce. Pour into a square 
mould. When cold slice and lay between thin toast 
or crisp crackers. 



STACKED SANDWICH 

Remove crust from loaf of sandwich bread, cut 
thin slices lengthwise of the bread. Use any sand- 
wich filling, stacking as you would layer cake, slice 
through the loaf. This makes a very attractive sand- 
wich. 



PAMENTO SANDWICH 

Equal parts of hard boiled eggs chopped and 
pamentoes cut in cubes, not forgetting to throw 
pamentoes in ice water for a few minutes; wipe dry 
and mix all with mayonnaise; spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

35 



^alabsi 




alabsf 



MAYONNAISE 

To the yolks of two well beaten eggs add one tea- 
spoonful of vinegar. Then begin to drop slowly /^ur 
olive oil, occasionally adding salt, paprika and cayenne 
pepper. Beat constantly, and as it thickens add vine- 
gar or lemon juice. By using the vinegar in the be- 
ginning over the yolks, there is less danger of curdling. 
Mayonnaise can always be lightened by beating iq 
whipped cream just before serving. Eggs, oil and 
dish used in making the dressing should be thoroughly 
chilled. 



EGG SALAD 

Six hard boiled eggs cut into half-inch cubes, three 
pamentoes cut in small pieces, two stalks of chopped 
celery. Serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise. 

39 



Candlelight Tea 



CHICKEN SALAD 

Boil chicken the day before, not forgetting salt, as 
it can not be properly seasoned afterward; cut white 
meat into good sized pieces; cut the same amount of 
crisp white celery. Mix in some pecan and almond 
kernels; cover all with a heavy, well seasoned mayon- 
naise. Thoroughly chill before using. Serve on let- 
tuce leaf, in sweet peppers, or as a fllhng for tomatoes, 
or moulded in aspic jelly. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

Boil sweetbreads in salt water until thoroughly 
done, when cold break into small pieces, adding an 
equal amount of celery, some pecan kernels and one 
pamento. Cover with mayonnaise and serve in toma- 
toes or on lettuce leaf. 



POTATO SALAD 

Boil potatoes in salt water, being careful not to 
have them over-done; set aside until thoroughly cool; 
cut in small disks, adding very finely chopped onion. 
Cover with mayonnaise or a cooked dressing. 

40 



Salads 



PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Pineapple salad can be made the year round, as 
Hawaiian-canned pineapple is superior to the fresh 
fruit. Cut the slices into disks, add the meat of one 
grape fruit to one can of pineapple. Cover with may- 
onnaise, to which whipped cream has been added. 



SPANISH SALAD 

Three cucumbers cut in cubes ; three large solid toma- 
toes cut in same way, three sweet bell peppers and one 
small hot pepper chopped. Serve on lettuce leaf or in 
sweet peppers with mayonnaise. 



NUT SALAD 

One cup of pecan kernels, one of almonds; kernels 
must be cut in small pieces, add to this one cup of 
deviled olives cut fine and a cup of cottage or neufcha- 
tel cheese. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise, and 
strips of pamentoes. 

41 



Candlelight Tea 



APPLE SALAD 

Select six apples of uniform size, remove the cen- 
ters, leaving shells for serving salad. To the apple 
meat add some quantity of celery and pecan kernels. 
Mix all with mayonnaise and return to shells. 



CAPON SALAD 
Made same as chicken, but served in cucumber 
shells or half sweet peppers, cut lengthwise. 



CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD 

Select cucumbers about five inches long, cut in half, 
lengthwise; remove the seed and a part of the meat, 
place shells carefully in ice water to be used in serving 
the following salad: Cucumbers cut in cubes, the 
meaty part of tomatoes also cut in small pieces, sweet 
green pepper cut in very slender strips (best done with 
scissors), some crisp celery. Mix all with mayonnaise. 
Place In cucumber shells, cover top with mayonnaise 
and decorate with strips of the peppers and pamentoes. 

42 



Salads 
HAM SALAD 

Put pieces of lean ham through a coarse meat 
grinder, add hard boiled eggs after being chopped fine, 
and a small quantity of crisp celery and cucumber 
pickle. Serve with cooked dressing. 



TOMATO SALAD 

Select large firm tomatoes, peel and cut in half, 
sprinkle on top some very fine chopped onion; place 
on lettuce leaf and serve with highly seasoned French 
dressing. 



FRUIT SALAD SERVED IN PINEAPPLES 

Select very small pineapples, cut lengthwise, scoop 
out the fruit with small round potato cutter, add to 
this white grapes, oranges cut in small pieces, pecans 
and almonds; cover with mayonnaise that has been 
lightened with whipped cream. Serve in the pine- 
apple shells, placed on crisp lettuce leaves. 



43 



Candlelight Tea 

GARDEN SALAD 

French peas, small cubes of tomatoes, chopped 
celery and cucumbers, shredded sweet pepper and a 
touch of onion juice. Serve in sweet peppers or cucum- 
ber shells with French dressing. 



FRENCH DRESSING 

To three spoons of olive oil add one of vinegar, 
beating briskly until creamy, season with salt, pepper, 
paprika and onion juice. 



SNOWBALL SALAD 

This salad can be made of neufchatel, cottage or 
any soft white cheese. Crush cheese with a fork, add 
to this pecans, deviled olives and pamentoes, which 
have been cut fine. Mix all with a small amount of 
mayonnaise, make into a stiff paste, roll into balls and 
j;erve on lettuce leaf with touch of mayonnaise on top. 

44 



Salads 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Peel and quarter grape fruit, preserving shape; 
place on lettuce leaf, one piece overlapping the other; 
decorate with strips of peppers and pamentoes, cover 
with French dressing. 



ARTICHOKE SALAD 

Get canned artichokes, pour off the water and 
place them on ice, peel a few apples and cut in small 
cubes, add a few truffles. Mix apples, truffle and arti- 
chokes with French dressing and serve on lettuce leaf. 



SWEETBREAD AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Boil sweetbreads until very tender, when cool break 
into small pieces cut cucumbers into small cubes and 
put them on ice. Mix just before serving. Serve on 
lettuce leaf or in sweet pepper hulls. 

45 



Candlelight Tea 



TOMATO AND CRAB SALAD 

Peel large ripe tomatoes, carefully remove seed and 
pulp. Mix a pint of crab meat which has been freed 
from bits of shell with tiny crisp heart leaves of lettuce, 
some celery cut fine, lightly stir in mayonnaise. Fill 
tomato shells. Serve with touch of mayonnaise on each. 



TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

To one can of tomatoes add an onion chopped fine, 
a tablespoon ful of minced sweet pepper, two stalks 
of celery, two cloves, teaspoonful of sugar and a 
touch of soda, let all cook slowly together for half an 
hour, during which time soak half a box of gelatine 
in half-pint of cold water; after straining the mixture 
add gelatine and return to fire until gelatine is dissolved. 
Have ready a mould or individual moulds, put jelly 
in them and place on ice to congeal. Turn out and 
serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise. Pecans and 
small bits of crisp celery can be dropped in before 
jelly congeals, and it will add greatly to the delicious- 
ness of this salad. 

46 



Salads 



TOMATO AND SHRIMP SALAD 

Peel large ripe, but firm, tomatoes, cut in thick 
slices, over each slice sprinkle shredded sweet green 
pepper, surround with shelled shrimps, cover with 
French dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf. 



ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Take the best grade of asparagus tips, place on crisp 
lettuce leaves, garnish with strips of pamentoes. Serve 
with French dressing or mayonnaise. 



BEET SALAD 

Cut tender, well boiled beets in cubes; to a scant 
half-pint of mayonnaise add a tablespoonful of minced 
cucumber pickle, the same amount of olives and capers, 
lastly stir in a few drops of onion juice. Mix this 
dressing with beet cubes and serve on lettuce leaf. 

47 



Candlelight Tea 



SALAD PIQUARTE 

Fill a salad dish with crisp lettuce leaves, cover 
with sliced tomatoes, place upon these some carefully 
shredded green peppers, add minced onions. Serve 
with French dressing. 



SALAD OF STRING BEANS 

Cut a pint of French string beans into pieces an inch 
long, and slice a small young onion very thin cover 
with French dressing and serve on lettuce leaf. 



SHAD ROE SALAD 
Boil a large roe for twenty to thirty minutes in salt 
water and when quite cool break in small pieces ; make 
cups of the heart of the lettuce and place within each 
a spoonful of roe, lay a border of cucumbers cut in 
small disks, and pour over all a French dressing. 



48 



Salads 



ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD 

Take the heart of very crisp white lettuce, open the 
leaves gently and fill with grated Roquefort cheese, 
cover with highly seasoned French dressing. 



CHERRY AND ALMOND SALAD 

Get a can of large red or white California cherries, 
seed them and fill with a blanched almond, place in 
pyramid fashion on crisp lettuce leaves and serve with 
French dressing. 



LOBSTER SALAD 

Boil a live lobster in salted water, remove meat 
carefully from the shell and chop evenly, add a few 
chopped olives, moisten all with mayonnaise and serve 
on lettuce leaf. 

49 



Candlelight Tea 



SALMON SALAD 

Pour oil from one can of salmon, take out bones 
and lift off skin, chop all very fine, add one large cup 
of cracker crumbs, one cup of chopped mixed pickle; 
pour over all a cooked mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce 
leaf, and garnish with olives and slices of hard boiled 
eggs. 



CHEESE BALLS 

Neufchatel cheese, paprika, chopped nuts, a touch 
of onion juice. Mix in enough mayonnaise to make a 
paste, roll in balls and place pecan kernels on top. 
Serve v^ith any salad. 



MOULDED SALAD 

Fill individual moulds about one-quarter full of aspic 
jelly; let stand until it begins to congeal, then press 
in chicken, nuts or sweetbread salad, that has already 
been mixed with mayonnaise. When thoroughly chilled, 
turn out on lettuce leaf and serve with a touch of 
mayonnaise on top of each mould. 



50 



Salads 



ASPIC JELLY 

Aspic jelly is made from any meat stock, chicken, 
beef or veal; clear with white of egg, the same as for 
bouillon, then add to one quart of stock one box of 
gelatine that has been soaked for an hour in a cup of 
cold water; season highly with salt, cayenne, table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Pour in square mould and 
cut in small squares before serving. If preferred indi- 
vidual moulds can be used. 



MOULDED FRUIT SALAD 

Make the same as any fruit salad, using juice of 
minced fruit for the jelly. To one pint of juice add 
three tablespoonsful of granulated gelatine; when jelly 
begins to congeal pour in moulds and press in fruit. 
No sugar must be used in jelly for fruit salad, but a 
small amount of lemon juice adds very much. When 
ready to serve, turn out on lettuce leaf, with a touch 
of mayonnaise. The daintiest fruit salad is made of 
Hawaiian pineapple, white grapes, marischino cherries, 
oranges, grape fruit and a few nut kernels. 

51 



Candlelight Tea 



SHRIMP SALAD 

Boil shrimps and remove shells, add celery, mix 
with highly seasoned mayonnaise, garnish with sliced 
deviled olives. If canned shrimps are used drain well 
before mixing salad. 



52 



-r 1^ \$n 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 486 906 




