
I II iiiiii III liii Mil nil iiii II III! iiiiii 'I 'III I'lii I'll' 'I 

30114007808721 



Glasgow University Library 



ALL ITEMS ARE ISSUED SUBJECT TO RECALL 



GUL 96.18 



s 

3 



Digitized by tine Internet Archive 
in 2015 



https://archive.org/details/b2146652x 



I 



40 

War Office. 
1089 



> \_Crown Copyright Reserved. 

MANUAL 



OF 

MILITARY COOKING. 

PBEPARED AT THE ARMY SCHOOL 
OF COOKERY. 




PRINTED UNDER THE AUTHOEITY^o/hIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE 
Br HARRISON and SONS, 45-17, St. Martin's Lane W C 

PitlNTERS IN OhdINAKV TO Ills MAJESTY. ' " "' 

WYMAN°A''«n^^nN^cf'=T\.n*''oQ '^i''^""^ "^through any Bookseller, from 
WIMAN AND SONS, Ltd., 29, Breams Buiujings, Fktter Lan^ B.C., and 

HM STATION-PT?v nw/tnw Ti ^"^"^ Street, Cardiff; or 

^^™'^i^|oNloxBy*^?°.n''^fi«^"n^'*™>' S™'=f=T, Edinburgh; or 

the Uni?S ^fffl*-'"?"!"' Colonies and Dependencies, 

the United states of Amenm the Cmitm of Europe and Abroad of 
A. I'lbHliJi UN WIN, London, W.C. 

1910. 
{Reprinted 1914.) 

Price Sixpence. 



CONTENTS. 



PAQE 

General instructions — 

Kitchens ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 

Cleaning utensils ... ... ... ■ . • ... • • • • • 2 

Apparatus in genei'al use in the Service ... ... ... ... 3 

Fuel 10 

Refuse ... ... ... ... ••• ••• ■•• ••• 12 

Stock-pot 12 

Dripping ... ... ... ... .• ••• •■• ••• 13 

Notes with regard to meat inspection 18 

Vegetables and herbs ... ... . • • • • ■ • • • • ■ • 23 

Beverages ... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• 26 

Condiments and^seasonings 27 

Cooking, various methods of 29 

Eecipes ... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• 

Bread making ... ... ■ - • • ■ • • • - • • • ■ • • 

Flour 55 

Field instruction 59 

Eecipes for field cooking 68 

JPoints to be noted on visiting a kitchen 71 

Appendix ''^ 

Schedules — 

I. Variety of diets and ingredients required 73 

II. Specimen of military diet for a unit in camp, facing page 76 

III. Specimen of military diet for one week of a battery, 

squadron or company in barracks 77 

IV. Monthly return of dripping 78 

V. Details of saving of stock and dripping "9 

VI. Method of treating rations when the rations are to be 

carried on the man ^0 



i GLASGOW 
UNIVERSITT 
LIBBABT _ 



MANUAL 

or 

MILITARY COOKING. 



GENEEAL INSTEUCTIONS. 



Kitchens. 

Everything connected with the kitchen should be scrupulously 
clean. 

The walls of the kitchen will be swept in the early morning, 
before they become damp from steam. 

The windows will be cleaned at least once a week ; during the 
day they will be kept open at the top, to ventilate the kitchen, and 
to allow the steam to escape. 

Duties of Serjeant-Cook and Cooks. 
The serjeant-cook will have complete control over the cooks of 
his regiment or battalion, who should receive their orders from 
him. 

He will detail each cook to the apparatus suitable for preparing 
the various dishes required for the following day, dividing the work 
so that each man may know what he has to do, in addition to the 
cooking for his company. 

He will afford every facility for varying the diet of the several 
messes, so that each company may have a complete change daily 
throughout the week ; and will arrange that the companies using 
the oven one day, shall have the use of the boilers and steamers the 
next day, and so on. 

He will be personally responsible that no misappropriation of 
any kind whatever takes place, and should be present when the 
milk IS issued with a list of the quantities ordered, to ensure that 
each company receives the correct amount. 

Groceries should be received by the serjeant-cook, who will weigh 
each day the quantities of the various articles received for each 
company, and satisfy himself that they agree with diet sheet and 
are the correct quantities for the number of men in mess. He will 
then lock them up in a cupboard, and retain the key. He will issue 
(b 10957) ^ 2 



2 



the various articles to each company-cook, and will see that tl»e full 
quantity as issued is actually used, and that it is prepared by the 
cooks according to the instructions given. 

When impai'tiug instruction, the serjeant-cook should illustrate 
his meaning by taking any particular dish and preparing it himself, 
giving full details during its preparation. When at some future 
time the same dish is again being prepared, he will see that his 
previous instructions are carried out, checking errors on the part of 
the cook. Patience and tact are required, especially with young 
soldiers, in training them in their duties as cooks. 

When assistant cooks are allowed they should be trained under 
the close supervision of the serjeant-cook with a view to replacing 
the cooks when required. 

The meat when issued to the cook will be at once placed in the 
dish belonging to the particular mess for which it is intended, care 
being taken to mark the dish with the number of the mess or 
room. 

When nets are used for vegetables, &c., a tablet or piece of wood, 
with the number of each mess plainly marked thereon, should be 
attached to each. 

Cooks should not be allowed to have their meals in the cookhouse. 

Smoking is not permitted in the kitchens. 

Cleaning Utensils. 

New Utensils will be cleaned before they are used. 
A new iron pot should first have a handful of sweet hay or grass 
boiled in it, then be scrubbed with sand and soap ; afterwards clean 
water should be boiled in it for about half an hour. A new tin 
should be filled with boiling water in which a spoonful of soda has 
been dissolved, and placed over the fire to simmer ; afterwards it 
should be scoured witli soap and rinsed with hot water, the soda 
renders soluble the resin used in soldering. 

Tins can be kept clean by rubbing them gently with sifted wood 
ashes. A copper stewpan or vessel can be cleaned with fine sand 
and salt, in the proportion of half salt to that of sand, then rubbed 
thoroughly with the hand or a brush. If there be any stains a 
lemon (or vinegar) may be used to remove them. 

Colanders should be well rinsed with boiling water, dried, and the 
frame cleaned and polished with whiting, care being taken that no 
particle of dust remains on it before hanging up for future use. 

Steamers, dishes and other tin ware should be well washed in 
soap and soda water and polished with whiting. 
. Previous to use, all utensils should be thoroughly clean, and, 
when possible, exposed to the sun daily. The practice of keeping 
them in cupboards until required for use should be discouraged. 

All utensils, after being used, should at once be filled with hot 
water and placed over the fire to scald thoroughly, then cleaned 
and well dried. 

Grease remaining in a vessel will make it rancid, and moisture, 
will rust it. 



3 



In washing any greasy utensil it is better to use the hand instead 
of flannel, as the latter retains the grease. 

Knives and forks (unless plated) should be cleaned with brickdust 
and flannel, and, if rusty, rubbed with a fresh-cut potato dipped in 
ashes. 

Plate or plated articles can usually be kept clean and bright 
by washing them with soap and boiling water, rubbing them 
dry whilst hot with soft cloths. 

Utensils with bone, ivory, or wooden handles should never 
be placed in hot water. 

Large knives, flesh forks, choppers, ladles, bowls, &c., should 
be well washed with hot water and soda, and afterwards polished 
with brickdust ; they should be at once cleaned after use and put 
in their proper places in the kitchen. 

The meat block and benches should be well scraped, and then 
scoured with hot water, soap, and soda, and be used for no other 
purpose whatever, except that for which they are intended. 



APPARATUS IN GENERAL USE IN THE SERVICE. 

Management of "Warren's Improved Apparatus. 

After use the fire should be drawn, and the apparatus allowed to 
cool down, close the furnace and ashpit doors, then remove the soot 
cap at the bottom of the stove pipe, insert the flue brush, clean the 
flue and the top of the oven, sweeping from side to side, close the 
soot cap and damper in the flue, open the soot caps on top of the 
oven, sweep the top and sides of it. Close the soot caps, remove the 
cover under the oven door, clean out the ashes and soot with a rake, 
sweeping well out with a flue brush, replace the cover, open the ash- 
pit and furnace doors, clean out the furnace, empty the ashpit, and 
fill it with water. Lay the fire with | a lb. of wood and 7 lbs. of 
coal. Close the furnace and ashpit doors. Fill the boiler to the 
gauge tap. In the morning open the ashpit and furnace door. 
Light the wood and close the furnace door. With a moderate fire 
the water should boil in 1 hour, the oven be ready for cooking in 
about 45 minutes, and the hot plate for frying in 30 minutes. When 
the water boils, the coffee should be made, and the boiler refilled and 
the fire replenished for dinner, closing the damper slightly, until the 
cooks resume their work after breakfast. Should the cooker supplied 
for green vegetables or pea soup be required for dinner, it must 
be placed on immediately after breakfast has been served. When 
the dinners have been cooked and served, the boilers should be 
refilled for washing up. After the required quantity of water 
has been issued for cleaning purposes, the boiler should be 
refilled again, and the fire banked up for tea. 



4 



General Instructions. 

1. Avoid the use of the rake ; it is only required for cleaning 
purposes. 

2. To economise fuel and ensure the apparatus working satis- 
factorily it must be cleaned out every day when in use ; also keep the 
space above the bridge clear, and the fire bars free from clinkers. 

3. A good fire must be maintained while cooking the dinner ; 
when it requires replenishing, ease the fire with a poker, pushing the 
live coal to the back, placing the fresh in front, adding not more 
than 5 lbs. of coal ; if more than this quantity is added, it will 
invariably choke the fire and stop the draught. 

4. The cooker in front is intended for soups, rice, vegetables, 
puddings, hams, porridge, &c., but should never be used for tea or 
coffee. It may be used for providing an extra supply of hot water. 

5. Cinders must not be used till after dinner ; then suflficient 
should have been saved from the day's consumption of coal to 
prepare the tea. 

6. All cookers when not in use should be clean, thoroughly dried, 
and kept in a dry place ready for use. 

7. During the process of cooking stews by steam they should be 
frequently stirred ; the dishes in the oven moved about. When 
there are^ no potatoes to be cooked, the cookers can be used 
for steaming puddings. Care should also be taken that the water 
from the condensed steam is occasionally di'awn ofi". 

8. Should the whistle on the feed pipe indicate that the boiler is 
empty, it must be refilled at once. If this should happen during 
the cooking of the dinners, the boiler must be filled with hot water, 
so as not to reduce the pressure of the steam. 



Dean's Iron Ovens. 

The oven is an iron box, which can be closely shut, with a furnace 
underneath, surrounded by patent fire lumps, and enclosed in a cast- 
iron frame. 

There are three sizes in use in the service, viz., the 2-dish, rated to 
cook for 25 men, the 4-dish to cook for 50 men, and the 8-dish to 
cook for 100 men. After being in use, the oven should be allowed to 
cool, and then thoroughly cleaned by opening the soot caps and oven 
dampers above the folding doors ; then insert the flue brush and 
clean the top of the oven. Close the soot caps and oven dampei-s, 
open the doors on top, and remove the back and side soot caps, 
insert the flue brush and sweep well down the back and sides of 
the oven, replace the soot caps and close the doors on top ; remove 
the soot caps above the furnace doors, and with a rake clear the soot 
from the back and sides of the oven, sweeping well out with a flue 
brush ; close the soot caps, open the furnace, sweeping on either side 
with a cinder brush ; empty the ashpit and fill it with water. 

If required the following morning, lay the fire with 1 lb. ot 
■wood and 10 lbs. of coal ; close the furnace and ashpit doors. In 



5 



the morning open the fui'nace and ashpit doors, oven dampers and 
damper in the flue ; light the wood and close the furnace door. 
Each fii'e should be allowed to burn well down before replenishing, 
then take the rake and clear the bars, pushing the live coal to the 
back of the furnace, and adding fresh coal in front. With the 
8-dish oven the fire should never be replenished with less than 10 lbs. 
of coal, the 4-dish 7 lbs. of coal, and the 2-dish 5 lbs. of coal. During 
the time the 8-dish oven is in use, should one side appear to get 
hotter than the other, the oven damper on the hottest side should 
be closed until the other side is brought to the same temperature, 
then opened again. 

When the oven is sufficiently heated, which can only be ascer- 
tained by experience, it should be damped down, by having a clear 
fire, free from smoke, closing the ashpit and furnace doors, oven 
dampers, and damper in the flue, leaving the slide of the ashpit 
door open. 

During the time the oven is in use, the folding doors should be 
opened as seldom as possible. An iron oven takes one hour to bring 
to the required heat. Including the fuel necessary to keep it hot 
while the food is being cooked, it will take 60 lbs. of coal. 

Dean's Steel Boilers. 

Dean's steel boilers are surrounded by patent fire lumps and fitted 
in a cast-iron frame. They are rated to cook for 50 men each ; one, 
however, will not cook for 50, though two will cook for 100, as it is 
impossible to prepare soup and steam potatoes on the same boiler, 
and reserve a separate one for tea. Each boiler will contain 20 
gallons of water ; after being in use they should be removed from 
their bearings and thoroughly cleaned outside and inside, the flue 
swept as far as can be got at with the flue brush, sweeping round 
the frame with the cinder brush, cleaning out the furnace, emptying 
the ashpit, and filling it with water. 

If for use the following morning, lay the fire with 1 lb. of wood 
and 7 lbs. of coal, replace the boiler in its bearings, place in the 
required quantity of water for breakfast, put on the lid, and damp 
the boiler down by closing the ashpit and furnace doors and damper 
in the flue. 

In the morning the fire should be lighted by opening the ashpit 
and furnace doors, and damper in the flue, then light the wood and 
close the furnace door. As soon as the water boils the cofl"ee should 
be made, and the fire drawn and placed under another boiler if 
required for dinner ; if not, the cinders should be placed in the 
ashpit for use at some future time. 

To keep the boiler on the simmer, draw the fire off the fire bars 
on to the dead lump in front of the fui'nace door, leaving a few live 
cinders on the fire bars ; close the ashpit door and damper in flue to 
within 1 inch, leaving the furnace door open. To bring the contents 



6 



of the boiler to boil again, push the fire back on to the fire bars, 
close the furnace door, and open the ashpit door and damper in flue. 

In steaming over a boiler, it should be three parts full of water 
and at a sharp boil before the steamer is placed over it. 



Dean's Combined Cooking Apparatus. 

Before lighting the fire, thoroughly rake out any ashes or coal 
from the flue at the back of the furnace. 
The fire damper should be used only for : — 

(a) First lighting fire ; to be closed after half-an-hour. 

(b) Eeviving the fire quickly. 

(c) Heating water for baths quickly. 

Of course the opening of this damper greatly increases the 
fuel consumption and lessens the heating of the hot plates, ovens 
and boilei's. 

The oven damper — right. 

Full open for oven ; right hand. 

Half open for (a) stock pot over oven ; (6) hot plate over oven. 
The boiler damper. 

Controls (a) the boiler on left hand ; (6) oven left hand top heat. 

The oven damper — left. 

Controls the oven left hand bottom heat. 

Any of the dampers may be closed, concentrating the whole of 
the heat from the furnace upon that portion of the apparatus 
controlled by the open dampers. 

The apparatus may be damped down by closing entirely the 
furnace and ashpit doors and all dampers, leaving one slightly 
open to allow the smoke to pass away ; the fire will then remain in 
for several hours. 

To ensure regularity in the working of the apparatus it must be 
swept and cleaned out every evening after use. To clean the flues : 
remove all the steamers and cookers, the left hand boiler and boiler 
over furnace, the loose hot plates over furnace, six soot doors in the 
hood, and the soot doors under the oven, open all the dampers. 

Commence sweeping from the uppermost soot door above the 
dampeis, down through each flue, passing the dampers to each of 
four soot doors over the hot plates. 

From each soot door over the hot plates sweep well down the 
backs of ovens, also the boiler flue and back of the centre boiler, 
into the furnace. 

Sweep out all soot from the flues which sturround the removed 
boiler and the tops of the ovens into the furnace, rake out all soot 
and ashes from the flue under the boiler at the back of the fm-nace 
and thoroughly sweep down the right-hand side flue of the large oven. 

Thoroughly rake out all the soot and ashes from the furnace, 
leaving the iiie bars perfectly clear, also rake down through the 
slots in the fire cheeks, forming the sides of furnace to clear the 
down cast flue. 



7 



From the front soot doors under the ovens thoroughly rake out all 
the soot and ashes each side of the iron flue, breaks and midfeathers, 
taking care that the flues at the back of the ovens are reached and 
the under sides of oven bottoms are well scraped. 

Sweep, externally, the left-hand boiler and replace, replace the 
soot doors, clean up the whole of the apparatus, replace the various 
fittings and the apparatus will be ready for use. 

Lay the fire with 1 lb. of wood, 20 lbs. of coal. 

It is most essential in any apparatus that the cook should make 
himself thoroughly conversant with the run of the flues and the 
action of each damper in the regulation of the heat to each part. 

Richmond Cooking Apparatus. 

Is composed of two distiflct parts. (A) consisting of oven and 
steam chambers, hot plate and boiler for generating steam, also 
providing water for tea or cofi'ee. (B) portion consists of soup or 
vegetable boiler and stock pot. There are two sizes in use. The 
small apparatus will cook for 50 men. The larger cooker will cook 
for 150 men. 

Management of the (A) Portion. 

After use this portion of the suite should be cleaned by removing 
the fire, clearing out the furnace i and ashpit, closing the furnace and 
ashpit doors, and the damper in the flue. Open tne cover over the 
boiler damper, insert the wire brush and thoroughly clean the tubes 
of the boiler, sweejD the top of the oven with a flue brush, close the 
boiler damper and cover. Open the right soot cap below the oven 
doors, insert the flue brush, sweeping from right to left, close the cap, 
open the soot cap on the left, sweeping to the left, close the cap. 
Open the small soot door at the left hand side of the lower oven 
cleaning the back of the ovens. Close the door and open the three 
soot caps 8,t the bottom, and with a rake remove any soot and ashes 
that may have accumulated at the bottom. Clean out the ovens, 
replace the gratings, close the doors. Open the doors of the steam 
chambers, remove the gratings, washing them with a solution of hot 
water and soda, wiping the sides and bottom of the chambers, 
replace the gratings, close the doors. Empty the condensing box, 
thoroughly clean the latter, fill with clean water and replace it. 
Open the valve on top of the boiler. Fill the boiler with the required 
quantity of water ; this is judged by watching the gauge glass and 
the indicators on the metal protector. Lay the fire with 1 lb. of 
wood and 7 lbs. of coal, replace the bullseyes on the hot plate. To 
light the fire open the furnace and ash-pit doors, the boiler damper, 
and the damper in the flue, light the wood and close the furnace 
door. When the fire has burned down take the small poker and 
push the live coals to the back of the furnace, keeping the bridge 
clear, placing the fresh coals in front, adding not less than 7 lbs. 
When one or both of the steaming chambei's ai'e required for break- 
fast, immediately the water boils the valve must be closed and the 



8 



steam forced into the chambers, maintaining a fairly good steam. 
If, on the other hand, the steamers are not I'equired, the fire should 
be damped down when the water reaches boiling point by closing 
the boiler and flue dampers, just allowing sufficient draught to 
carry oif the smoke. As soon as the breakfast has been served, 
the boiler should be refilled, the fire replenished, and the apparatus 
damped down. On the resumption of the cooking for dinner, the 
damper in the flue should be opened and the heat directed round 
the oven. 

"When preparing the meat for roasting or baking, the largest joints 
should be done first and placed in the hottest part of the oven, and 
as each subsequent joint is ready the first joint must be moved to 
another part of the oven to make room for the next joint, and so on, 
in order that each piece of meat may be browned on the outside 
before being placed finally in the position best suited for it to cook in. 

With the lat^ger apparatus it has been found convenient to reserve 
the left hand steaming chamber for meat and puddings, and the 
right hand chamber for cooking potatoes and other vegetables. 

With the 50 men cooker, the higher portion of the steaming 
chamber should be reserved for meat and puddings, the lower 
chamber for vegetables, &c. As soon as the dishes to be cooked by 
steam are ready, the valve should be closed until the steam gauge 
registers from 2 to 3 lbs. pressure ; the steam should then be 
turned on the chamber in use ; maintaining this pressure as far as 
possible. Vegetables can be placed on the steam according to the 
time they take to cook. Potatoes should be put in the chamber 
about 45 minutes before the dinner hour, the whole of the pressure 
of steam being forced on them by slightly closing the tap of the 
chamber containing the meat dishes, keeping up a fairly good supply 
of steam until the potatoes are cooked. During the cooking the 
overflow box of the condenser must be emptied when necessary. 

(B) Portion. 
Management of the Stock Pot and Vegetable Boiler. 

This portion of the cooker has been designed for making soups, 
porridge, boiling rice and green vegetables, also for making stock. 
The boilers are fitted with wire baskets, the stock pot basket having 
three compartments as receptacles for the three grades of bones. 
The two boilers are fixed close together in a cast iron frame and are 
heated by one fire. 

The capacity of the stock pot is 15 gallons, that of the vegetable 
boiler 25 gallons. , , v 

The heat can be directed on either of the boilers, or may be 
allowed to pass into the flue direct as desired by the cook. 

To clean out the flues, «&c., the fire must be removed, furnace and 
ashpits cleaned out. Close the dampers. Open the soot caps in the 
flue, sweep both sides of the flue well down, close the caps ; then 
open the soot doors on either side of the boiler tops, cleaning the 
sides of the boiler, raking out the soot with a rake. Lay the hre 



9 



with 1 lb. of wood and 4 lb. of coal. Close the furnace, open the 
lids of the boiler, remove the bones from the stock, empty the pot. 
Wash out with hot water and soda, rinse out with clean warm water, 
replace the stock, remove the bones from the basket, discard the 
No. 3 bones, wash the basket, replace the bones. Change the tallies, 
and put the basket in a cool place. Clean out the vegetable boiler, 
fiU 3 parts with water. In the morning, light the fire, first opening 
the furnace and ashpit doors and dampers, light the wood and close 
the furnace doors. 

When the fire requires replenishing push the live coals to the 
back, adding the fresh in front. Close the stock pot damper, 
directing the heat on the larger boiler. Should the latter not be 
required for breakfast the dampers may be closed just sufficient to 
maintain combustion. 

Brick Oven. 

Consists of a brick chamber, generally circular in shape, with a 
low roof not exceeding 20 inches in height. A furnace, constructed 
in one side, the flame and heat of which passes through the oven to 
a flue in the opposite side, causes the chamber to become very hot, 
the heat being maintained until the food placed in it is cooked. 

When required for use, the fire should be laid the previous night 
with 1 lb. of wood and 15 lbs. to 20 lbs. of coal, and the furnace door 
closed. 

In the morning, open the furnace, ashpit doors, and the oven door, 
remove the fire block from the mouth of the furnace, close the oven 
door, open the damper in the flue, light the wood, and close the 
furnace door. 

Each fire should be allowed to burn well down before replenishing, 
then take a rake and clear the bars, pushing the live coals to the 
back and adding the fresh in front. The fire should never be 
replenished with less than 15 lbs. of coal. When the oven is 
sufiiciently heated, which is ascertained by looking through the hole 
in the oven dooi', and if the soot is all burnt off the top and sides, 
and the bricks have a bright red appearance, it is ready. Then open 
the furnace door and see that the fire is perfectly free from smoke ; 
if it is, close the furnace and ashpit doors, open the oven door, 
replace the fire block at the mouth of the furnace, and clean out 
the oven with a damp broom or scuffle, close the oven damper and 
door for a few minutes to allow the dust to settle. 

The hottest part of the oven being near the furnace, the larger and 
coarser joints should be placed there. After being in 1 hour they 
should be taken out, turned and replaced in the oven until done. 

Too much water should not be placed in the dishes, as the steam 
tends to lower the heat. After a little practice, the heat can be 
ascertained by merely taking hold of the handle of the oven door, or 
by placing the hand in the oven. 

The door should be opened as seldom as possible. The time a 
brick oven takes to heat depends upon its construction and the 



10 



quality of coal used ; as a rule, about 1 hour with 50 lbs. of good 
Newcastle coal, and 2 hours with 200 lbs. of Scotch coal. 

Soter's Stove. 

This consists of a 12 gallon boiler contained in an iron cylinder, at 
the bottom of which is a small fire-place. It will boil vegetables, 
puddings, &c., for 50 men ; it makes a good stock-pot in the field. 



FUEL. 

It will be obvious that a careful and economical use of fuel will be 
necessary, in order to carry out the system of messing as now 
approved. It has been practically demonstrated that with careful 
supervision, the regulation allowance is barely sufficient to meet all 
requirements. The following remarks are issued for information on 
this subject. 

1. The allowance of coal for the cookhouse should be issued daily 
to the serjeaut-cook, and care should be taken that an undue amount 
of slack is not included. 

2. The serjeant-cook will be held responsible for the economical 
consumption of coal, and it will be his duty to regulate the fires, 
using no moi'e than are necessary for the cooking required. By 
consulting the Eegimental Diet Return, the serjeant-cook will be 
able to arrange beforehand how his cooking appai'atus can be used 
to the best advantage. 

3. Cinders should be carefully preserved, as in some cases they 
are as valuable for fuel as coal. 

4. The following rules for regulating fires and furnaces should be 
observed : — 

{a) Fires should not be kept burning longer than necessary ; for 
instance, when soup has reached its boiling point, a portion of 
the fire should be withdrawn, also when the brick ovena are 
heated to the required pitch, the fire should be at once 
removed and the food cooked by the stored heat. 

(6) After fires have been used, but are required subsequently, they 
should be banked up by placing damp cinders on them, and 
the ashpit door and damper closed, leaving only sufficient 
di'aught to carry away the smoke, the furnace door being kept 
open. 

(c) In replenishing a fire, the live coal should be pushed to the back 
of the furnace, the fresh coal being added in front. By so 
doing, the fresh coal becomes gradually consumed, and the 
heat of the fire is not reduced. 
The fuel usually issued for cooking in the service consists of wood, 
coal, coke, charcoal, and turf or peat. 

Wood in barracks is simply issued for kindling purposes, and the 
allowance is 1 lb. for each 40' lbs. of coal or coke. 



11 



The allowance of coal for Warren's apparatus is 3 lbs. per man 
per week. 

With all other apparatus it is 5 lbs. per man per week. 



The coal mentioned in the scale is seaborne coal or coal rated as 
such. 100 lbs. of 2nd quality coal, 80 lbs. of coke, or 1 kish of 
turf of 20 cubic feet will be considered equivalent to 80 lbs. of 1st 
quality coal. 



Coke is coal, the bituminous qualities of which have been 
extracted by heat in closed chambers. A ration of coke is 1 lb., 
but it is seldom issued for cooking purposes. 



Charcoal is wood charred in chambers made as airtight as 
possible. 



Turf or peat is a substance of vegetable origin, and, when in a 
dry state, is issued for kindling purposes — kish being equivalent 
to 1 lb. of kindling wood. It should not be disturbed while burning. 



The fire should be prepared as follows : — Cut the wood into 
small strips, care being taken that it is quite dry, then place small 
pieces of coal on each side of the furnace, place half the wood 
crossways, the ends resting on the coals, the remainder lengthways, 
which will allow the air to pass through, cover with moderate sized 
pieces of coal and light it at the bottom. 

The amount of wood and coal I'equired to lay a fire for each 
apparatus will be : — 



Coal. 



Coke. 



Chaecoal. 



Turf or Peat. 



Fires. 



Description. 



Wood. 



Coal. 



lb. 



lbs. 
4 
5 
7 

10 
7 

15 



Warren's 
Dean's, 2-disli 




.1. 



1 
1 
1 



i 



Brick oven 



12 



Refuse. 

The refuse must be collected after meals by the orderly men of 
each mess, and taken to the tubs provided, and on no account is it 
to be allowed to accumulate in the barrack-rooms. The orderly 
corporal or N.C.O. in charge of each room is responsible that this 
is done. 

Conditions of sale vary much in the service, the principal ones 
are — that the contractor be held responsible that all refuse is taken 
from the bai'racks at least once every day. The contractor to pro- 
vide the necessary tubs, &c., to contain the refuse. All articles of 
refuse to be considered the property of the contractor. 

The contractor to be held responsible for any nuisances arising 
through his neglect of the contract. 

The money received for the refuse is credited to the men's 
messing. 

To preserve tfceir sanitary condition, the tubs should be frequently 
scalded out with water, to prevent any smell, and the outside 
whitewashed. 

Stock-Pot. 

A stock-pot will be established to provide good soup and gravies. 
It consists of a cooking utensil, either a boiler or large boiling pot, 
into which should be placed all available bones, &c., such for 
example as are collected when the ration meat is cut up, in 
preparing boned and rolled meat, meat pies, meat puddings, stews 
and curries. This boiler should be kept gently simmering for 4 to 
5 hours daily immediately before its contents are required for use. 
If the ration meat is properly boned, it will provide soup for the men 
of a battalion daily at a nominal cost of peas, lentils, vegetables, &c. 

In order to ensure a constant change in the stock, and that no* 
bones remain longer than 3 days in the pot, the following system 
should be adhered to. The bones extracted from the meat rations 
on the first day should be placed in a net with a tally attached 
before being boiled, the bones of the second and third days should 
be similarly treated ; after the third day the bones boiled upon the 
first day should be removed, and similarly the bones of the sub- 
sequent days, the stock being continually I'eplenished from day to 
day. The bones should always be removed from the stock before 
the vegetables and other ingredients are added. They should be 
carefully drained, placed in a dish, and kept in a cool dry place 
until required the following morning. Every effort should be made 
in a regimental cookhouse to reserve special boilers or boiling-pots 
fo^ making stock, in order that, if possible, the surplus portion of 
unused stock should be carried on from day to day. This process 
adds considerably to the strength of the soup made. 

The amount of water to be added to the bones in making stock 
must depend on the quantity of the bones. It must be understood 
that when the stock is not required for soups, gravies, «&c., it should 
be used in preparing dishes such as curries, stews, meat and sea 
pies, meat puddings, bakes. 



13 



Dripping. 

Dripping is the oil extracted from the fat of all kinds of meat 
during the process of cooking, and forms a valuable aid to military- 
cookery. It not only provides all the fat required for — 

1. Preparation of all paste ; 

2. Puddings ; 

3. Issues in lieu of butter for breakfast and tea ; 

4. Frying purposes ; 

but the surplus can be sold and the money credited to the messing 
fund. Thus a considerable saving is effected in the messing 
expenses of a unit. Every precaution should be taken by all 
concerned that no fat is wasted and that the dripping handed into 
store for issue is clean, sweet and free from moisture and all dis- 
agreeable flavour. It should be firm and vary in colour from white 
to pale straw. If dirty or dark brown in appearance, it has either 
been indifferently clarified or burnt. Fat that is the least scorched 
should not be accepted, as it will taint everything it may be mixed 
with. Dirty dripping must be returned to the cook for thorough 
clarifying before it is taken over. The ordinary ration of 12 ozs. 
should yield not less than ^ an oz. of dripping which is obtained 
as follows, and is divided into the two classes : — 

First Class dripping is made from the surplus suet issued with 
the ration meat. 

Second Class dripping is the liquid fat that accumulates on 
the surface of stocks, stews, bakes, pies, &c., and that which 
settles on the bottom of the dishes when roasting. This fat must 
be carefully removed before the dishes leave the kitchen ; not only 
to provide dripping, but to render the food appetising, palatable 
and easily digested. To prepare the above and make it fit for use, 
it must be clarified in the following manner : — The liquid fat, 
when skimmed off the dishes, is put into a dish to cool and harden 
into a solid cake. It is then cleaned, broken up into pieces, put 
into a clean dish with about 1 quart of water, placed in an oven or 
on a hot plate and allowed to boil rapidly, all scum being removed 
as it rises to the surface. When the water has evaporated and the 
fat becomes clear, strain it into a clean dish and allow to cool ; 
when firm, turn it out in a solid block and carefully scrape away 
any particle of dirt or impurity that may be adhering to the 
bottom. This class of dripping must be kept distinct from the 
other and only issued for savoury pastry and frying. First Class 
dripping is made as follows : — 

After the surplus suet has been collected, it should be cut up 
into small pieces, the smaller the better, or passed through a 
mincer, then put into a dish or pot, barely covered with water, put 
into an oven or over a fire and allowed to boil rapidly until the water 
has evaporated and the pieces of fat become a light brown 
colour, then allowed to partly cool, strained through a colander 
into a clean dish, allowed to harden, turned out and scraped clean 
as directed for Second Class dripping. 



14 



Care must be taken when cutting away the suet from the meat 
that only the surplus is removed ; for instance, the outside fat must 
not be taken off unless it be excessive. Should it be necessary to 
do this, the meat must be weighed to ascertain the loss in fat ; if 
the fat is out of proportion to the lean the matter should be 
reported. 

An account of all dripping saved, issued or sold, should be 
kept by the quartermaster on the forms issued for this purpose. 
Issues to companies, for any purpose, should be supported by an 
entry in the messing book. The serjeant-cook should not keep 
the daily dripping return, he is only responsible for the amount 
saved, and on handing it into stoi'e must obtain the signature of 
either the quartermaster or quartermaster- serjeant in his book, 
for the amount handed over. 

Dripping should be issued, as far as possible, according to the 
following scale : — 



For what purpose. 



Amount. 



Quality. 



Tea or break'fast 
Plum puddings 
Curraut rolls ... 

Jam rolls 

Currant pudding 
Raisin „ 
Date „ 
Treacle „ 

„ tarts 

Jam „ 

Apple or fruit tarts ... 

Bread puddings 

Plain suet puddings 

Meat pies 

Sea „ 
Meat puddings 
Dumplings 

Prying flsh, deep frying 



„ dry 

liver, without bacon 
eggs „ 

with Dacon . . . 



1 oz. per man 

4 ozs. to each lb. of flour 



First 
'Class. 



2 ozs. to each lb. of pulp J 

6 ozs. to each lb. of flour j") 
i 4 ozS. „ 



1 ^ i-L II Second 

about 4 lbs. per company ! [- nj^gg 

of 60 men ' 

„ 2 lbs. 
„ i lb. 
„ 1 lb. 
„ i lb. 



15 




1—1 o 

ft ;1 

H 
El 

O 



3 « 

Oh ° 



13 • 



U2 

iT o 



' o 
O 



s 



to 

a. p.2 -S 
.S-^ o 

r 3 iJL 



=3 



c4 
ft 



(b 10957) 



13 ; 
o o 



8 



16 



g 

s 

















H 










I' 














HH 


-si 


1— 1 


S 


P5 




fi 






•** 






< 




P 








03 








H 




02 
































P 









•aneei oi sv 
"i[idS - jO}8Bmja; 
-.iBn^) JO oan^BuSis 




* 

Issued. 


Total 
issued. 


N 

o 




03 




Band. 


to 

O 




CQ 

.a 




a 


to 

N 
O 


- 


to 






in 

M 

o 




GO 






to 

N 

o 




to 






GO 
O 




CO 






CO 
^9 

o 


. 


to 




o 


lbs. OZS. 






m 


lbs. ozs. 







A Coy. 


00 

o 




CO 




•^000 
-'ifjag JO ajnjBuStg 





Total 
Drip- 
ping 
used. 


to 
^3 
o 





to 




ni uaji JO 'OjH 






,-i(Neo-*.oot>flOC-. Oj-Joj 



17 





Grand 
total. 




















































































Total 














r- ,H rH ,H rt 5^ IM (M 5-1 (M I^i CO CO 



(b 10957) 



S 



B 2 



18 



MEAT. 

Eation Meat is supplied in the Service under Contract in two 
ways : — 

(i) By the Live Cattle Contract, at stations where Government 
abattoirs exist, under which the cattle are provided by the 
contractor, but slaughtered, and the meat issued by the Army 
Sei'vice Corps. Under this form of contract there is a two-fold 
inspection, firstly of the live animal, and secondly of the meat after 
slaughter. Rejections may be made at either inspection. 

(ii) By the Meat Contract, at Stations where there is no Govern- 
ment abattoir, under which the meat is supplied ready for issue by 
the contractoi-, and inspected on delivery. 

The general conditions of contract governing the class, quality, 
age, sex, etc., of the meat to be supplied under each system are the 
same. These are as follows : — 

Beef will be supplied to the troops on six days in the week, and 
mutton for the I'emaining day. 

The beef on four days in each week must be fresh, and frozen beef 
may be issued on the other two days. The mutton may be frozen. 

The right is reserved to issue Preserved Meat from Government 
stores whenever thought fit. Such issues are limited, as far as 
possible, to one issue per month, and will be in lieu of fresh Beef. 

The meat must be well-fed, good, sound, sweet and wholesome— 
the beef must be Ox, not under two nor more than five years old, or 
Heifer and Cow, not under two nor more than four years (48 months) 
old ; the mutton. Wether or Maiden Ewe, not more than four years 
old. Carcasses of sheep weighing less than 50 lbs. are not to be 
received. 

The term "fresh beef and mutton" means cattle and sheep 
slaughtered in the United Kingdom, and afterwards neither frozen 
nor submitted to a longer chilled process than is usual in the trade 
at Deptford and Birkenhead. 

The conditions governing the dressing of fresh meat are as 

follows : — , J 

Cattle.—Oxen, the root of the pizzle is not to be removed, nor 
any portion of the cod fat. 
Heifers and Cows.— No portion of the udder to be cut 
away. 

^^eer).— Wethers, the pizzle is not to be removed. 

Ewes.— No portion of the udder is to be cut away. 
Frozen Beef mid Miaton is meat slaughtered outside the United 
Kingdom and imported in a frozen state. The special conditions 
governing the supply of such meat are as follows : — 
Beef.— The quarters are to weigh from 170 to 200 lbs. 
i¥?t«o?i.— Wethers only are to be accepted, carcasses to weigh 

from 50 to 70 lbs. j „ „„f„iw 

Frozen beef and mutton must be thoroughly and carefully 
thawed prior to issue, and must be in sound condition and free 
from damage. 



19 

General conditions affecting all meai.-— Meat, whether beef or 
mutton, which is excessively fat, will not be taken unless the 
contractor consents to remove all surplus fat. In beef, surplus fat 
is the excessive fat at the kidneys, pelvic cavity, cod fat and udder. 
In mutton, that on the back and in the region of the kidneys. If 
the kidneys are removed, the kidney fat m\ist also be taken out. 

Delivery. — The ration beef is to be delivered in quarters, the 
fore and hind quarters alternately, the bone from 4 inches above the 
knee and upper hock joint to be either excluded, or allowed for in 
the weight. Mutton is to be delivered in carcasses, excluding heads 
and shanks from below the knee and hock joints. 

Inspection. — In addition to the inspections already referred to, a 
further inspection may be made by a specially qualified officer, who 
has power to reject meat already passed. As a result of such an 
inspection the contractor may be fined within the terms of the 
contract. In the event of any rejections, the contractor has the 
right to appeal to the Officer Commanding at the station, and 
finally to the General Officer Commanding. 

Extra ration meat when required, in accordance with the 
specification, must be supplied by the contractor, to the extent of a 
quarter of a pound for each soldier included in the ration return, 
for use in Regimental Eecreation Rooms and for other similar 
purposes, payment for the full amount at contract rates being made 
monthly by the corps direct to the contractor. 

Ration meat when passed, will, if so directed, be cut up, divided 
and weighed by the contractor, but when cut up by the troops, an 
additional weight of one per cent, shall be allowed, free of charge 
by the contractor, to cover losses of cutting up. 

The joints in beef and mutton. — Beef :— After slaughter the ox is 
chopped down, i.e., divided into two sides. Each side is subsequently 
divided into two quarters, the divisions taking place between the 
twelfth and thirteenth ribs. 

The usual custom in the service is to "joint" the quarters as 
follows (see plate) : — 

In the forequarter : — 

1. Clod or sticking piece— five joints of the cervical vertebree. 

2. Chuck rib— three dorsal vertebrae, top ends of three ribs, 
bottom end of scapula, two cervical vertebrse— should be boned and 
stuffed, or may be baked and roasted whole. When stuffed, the 
bones should be made into gravy. 

3. Middle rib— four dorsal vertebrte, top ends of four ribs, 
remainder of scapula. Can be cooked in a similar manner to the 

chuck." 

4. Fore rib— five dorsal vertebrse, top ends of five ribs. Should 
be baked or roasted whole. 

5. The Plate- lower ends of four ribs. May be boned and stuffed, 
or stewed, but should not be baked. 

6. Brisket— Sternum and lower ends of eight ribs. Is best 
salted, but may be treated as the " plate." 



20 



7. Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton piece. Whole of the humerus, 
top of radius and ulna. 

Should be I'oasted, baked, or stewed. 

a. Shin. Remainder of radius and ulna, less 4 inches, which 
under terms of contract, must be removed from bottom end. Should 
be always used for soup or stew. 




In the hind quarter : — 

1. Loin, six lumbar vertebrae, one dorsal vertebra, top end of 
one rib and portion of ilium. Should always be roasted or baked. 

2. Rump, top part of ilium and sacrum. May be roasted, 
baked, braized, stewed, or cut into steaks, which may be broiled 
or fried. 

3. Aitch bone, ischium, lower part of ilium, top of femur. 

4. Buttock, which is itself divided into two, namely the " top 
side," inside poi^tion of femur ; and the " silver side," outside 
portion of femur. 

5. Thick ilank — patella. 

6. Thin flank. End of thirteenth rib— should be boned and 
stewed. 

7. Shank, whole of tibia except lower 4 inches, removed under 
terms of contract. Should always be stewed. 

Ifutton.—The sheep is not divided into sides or quarters as is 
the ox. 

When cut up for issue, the joints are as follows {see plate) : — 

1. Neck, scrag-end. Should be boiled or stewed. 

2. Neck, best end. 



21 



3. Shoulder. Should be baked or roasted whole, or the blade 
bone may be taken out and the meat stuffed and roasted, or it may- 
be cut with the bone in it, and stewed. 

4. Breast. 

5. Loin. Should be baked or roasted in one piece, or may be cut 
into chops and stewed. 

6. Leg. May be roasted, baked or boiled. 




Meat Impection. — Meat, both beef and mutton, is judged in 
conjunction with the terms of the current contract, a copy of which 
should be hung up in every meat store, as regards its age, sex, 
quality, sweetness and dressing. 

Age. — In beef, the carcase externally should have a well-filled and 
rounded appearance, well covered with bright, clean fat. Internally, 
the chest and pelvic cavities and kidneys should be well covered with 
fat ; the bones should be ruddy, porous and soft, and plenty of 
cartilage should be visible on certain of them. 

In mutton, the same conditions obtain to a modified degree. 

Sex. — In beef the ox, heifer or cow fulfilling the conditions of 
contract, should be of medium conformation as regards bone and 
general development, the lean when freshly cut should be bright 
cherry colour, soft and silky, and well marbled with fat — the fat 
should be of a biscuit colour, and the crest of medium size. 

In the ox, the root of the pizzle should be thin and soft, the 
erector muscle small, and the cod-fat should be plentiful and lobulated. 

In the heifer or young cow, the udder should be a smooth oval 
pad of solid, or nearly solid fat. 

The bull and old cow are not accepted as ration meat. The 
former — the bull — is distinguished by massive general development 
of bone and muscle, especially as I'egards the crest ; absence of fat, 
dark stringy appearance of lean, with no " marbling," thickness of 
pizzle and erector muscle, and absence of cod fat. The latter — the 
old cow — has a generally lean and angular appearance, the bones are 



22 



white, the flesh is dark and coarse, the pelvic cavity is wide and 
distended, and the udder is brown, spongy and pendulous. 

In mutton, the same characteristics obtain to a rather more 
modified extent. 

Quality— Beef. — A carcase should be healthy and well-fed, and 
should externally have a well rounded, well-filled appearance. There 
should be waves of fat on the chest cavity, and plenty of fat on the 
pelvic cavity and kidneys ; the lean, when freshly cut, should be 
soft and silky to the touch, full of juice, bright cherry-red in colour 
and well marbled with fat. The fat itself should be moderately 
abundant, and usually of a pale straw colour. 

The internal organs should be sound and fi'ee from disease, and 
there should be no signs of tuberculous growth or adhesion in the 
chest and abdominal cavities. 

Mutton.— A carcase of mutton should be well-fed and healthy, and 
should be " mackerel backed " — i.e., should have alternate red and 
white bars over the loins. The fat should be fairly abundant, firm 
and white. 

The flesh should present the same general characteristics as that 
of beef, except that the " marbling " of fat is seldom present. 

Sweetness. — To decide whether meat is sweet or tainted, the senses 
of taste and smell must be employed. Fresh meat is slightly acid 
to the taste, while stale meat is distinctly alkaline. 

If there is any doubt, the meat should be probed at its thickest 
portion, with a clean, woode^i skewer, well thrust in, if possible close 
to a bone, and the skewer quickly withdrawn and smelt. In beef, 
the best place to probe a fore and hind quarter is at the chuck rib 
and pelvic bone respectively, while a caixase of mutton should be 
cut down between the hind legs, separating the two portions of the 
pelvic bone. 

Br easing. —The method of dressing beef and mutton under the 
terms of contract has already been alluded to — some of the commoner 
endeavours to infringe these terms may, however, be hei'e mentioned. 
" Short " forequarters, — i.e. those containing only seven ribs, should 
not be accepted, except in the case of imported meat. 

" Stripped " forequarters— i.e. those in which any portion of the 
lining of the chest cavity has been removed, should not be accepted. 

If the pizzle, cod fat, erector muscle, udder or crest, has been 
tampered with, the quarter or carcase concerned should be rejected. 

Special characteristics of frozen meat.— The meat is cold to the 
touch, and particles of ice may be seen on cutting into it with a saw. 
Its colour is not so bright as that of home-killed meat. 

When still frozen, the carcase has, externally, a white appearance, 
the fat is also white, distinct from the lean, and rather crumbly. 
There are generally signs of rough handling, and the outside is dirty 

and untidy. , j j 

When thawed, the meat looks sodden, the fat is discoloured, and 

the exterior of the carcase sweats considerably. 

In carcases of frozen mutton, the forelegs are invariably bent 

towards the body, and as much of the pizzle as can be cut away 

from the outside, is removed. The conditions of contract as 

regards dressing do not apply to frozen meat. 



23 



VEGETABLES AND HERBS. 

The vegetables in common use by the troops are potatoes, carrots, 
turnips, onions, vegetable marrow, beans, turnip tops, greens and 
cabbages, and should be prepared as follows. 

Potatoes. 

Potatoes are best when cooked in their skins, but when it is 
necessary to peel them it should be done as thinly as possible, as 
the best part of the potato is that nearest the skin. After peeling 
they should be kept in cold water till required for use. If any be 
spotted in the inside, they should be rejected, as their flavour and 
the best part of the nutriment has been lost. If for boiling, a little 
salt should be dissolved in the water before the potatoes are placed 
in it, but it is better to steam them, as their flavour is thereby 
improved and the waste is less. New potatoes should always be 
placed in boiling water with a little salt, and not steamed. 

Potatoes with rough skins are best for boiling, smooth ones for. 
baking, and as a general i-ule the smaller the eye of the potato the 
better is their quality. 

Carrots. 

Carrots should always be sent up to table with boiled beef. They 
vary much in quality, but should be quite firm, and have a crisp 
appearance when broken. Young carrots should be washed and 
well scrubbed before cooking ; old ones will require scraping and 
cutting into quarters lengthwise. A little salt should always be 
boiled with them. 

Parsnips. 

Parsnips, which should be served in a similar manner, are excellent 
for flavouring, and contain a great amount of nourishment. 

Turnips. 

Turnips are used in all stews, and should be mashed to flavour 
soups, &c. After boiling, they should be thoroughly drained, a 
little dripping, pepper, and salt must be added to taste, and they 
should then be mashed with the ordinary vegetable masher. The 
turnips should be small, finely grained, juicy, smooth, and sound, 
and should be peeled, as the part next the skin is- fibrous and 
indigestible. 

Onions. 

The well-known vegetable may be regarded either as a condiment, 
or as an article of real nourishment. By boiling it is deprived of 
much of its pungent, volatile oil, and becomes agreeable, mild, and 
nutritious. As a slight flavouring it is considered an improvement 



24 



to nearly all made dishes. In stews, pies, &c., it will be found 
better to first place the onions in a little boiling water with soda, 
and there allowed to remain for 10 minutes. The water, which will 
then be found quite green, should be thrown away, as it contains 
the indigestible part of the onion. 

Garlic, shalots, chives, and leeks are more pungent than onions, 
and should be sparingly used. 

The Spanish onion is larger than the English, and is considered 
better in flavour. 

Peas and Beans. 

Peas, beans, and fresh pulse of all kinds should be boiled by 
placing them in boiling water without salt. 

The quicker they are cooked, strained, and served, the more 
tender they will become. 

Turnip Tops. 

Turnip tops, greens, cabbages, savoys, kale, &c., should be first 
well picked, washed, and left in salt and water for a short time to 
drive away any insects that may remain. They should then be 
placed in plenty of boiling water, with a little salt and soda added, 
and boiled quickly, leaving the boiler vmcovered ; this not only 
helps to preserve their colour, but allows the indigestible part to 
pass away. As soon as done they will sink to the bottom, and 
should be taken up at once, strained, and kept warm until served. 
By so doing they become mellow, and preserve their flavoxtr. 

Vegetable Marrow. 

Vegetable marrows should be peeled, quartered, and the seeds 
removed (these are very good if added to a soup), they should then 
be placed in boiling water with a little salt, and boiled until tender. 
They are also very good mashed, for which they must be boiled, 
drained thoroughly, and mashed smoothly, adding a little dripping, 
pepper, and salt to taste. 

Dried Pulse. 

Dried pulse, such as the large blue pea, haricots, lentils, &c., 
should be placed in four times their quantity of water, without 
salt, and boiled from 2 to 3 hours, until tender, when they will 
have absorbed all the water, and then seasoned to taste. They are 
a good substitute for potatoes. 1 lb. of good dried haricots makes 
4 lbs. when cooked. Peas and haricots are a favourite dish when 
baked or steamed with the meat, for which they must be previously 
soaked in cold water. 

Mushrooms. 

Mushrooms and marigold flowers are often found growing wild, 
and give an excellent flavour to a stew or soup. 



25 



Nettles and Sweet Docks. 

Nettles and sweet docks are excellent vegetables in the spring, 
two-thirds of the former being mixed with one-third of the latter. 
They should be boiled in plenty of boiling water with a little soda. 
When cooked, drain well, and chop them up as you would spinach, 
then place them in the dry boiler with some gravy or dripping, 
salt, and pepper. Stew for about 5 minutes and serve. There are 
various ways of cooking them, and they are a good substitute for 
other vegetables in soup. 

The young leaf of the mangold wurzel is also excellent when 
cooked as above. Both should be served with roast meat. Wild 
sorrel added to pea soup in the spring makes a pleasant change. 

Seasoning Herbs, &c. 

A faggot of herbs usually consists of 2 sprigs of parsley, 4 of 
savory, 6 of thyme, and 2 small bay leaves tied together ; marjoram 
may be added. In making soup, the herbs should be sunk by 
means of a small flint stone. Many of these herbs are found 
growing wild in this country and in Gibraltar, but it will generally 
be found advisable to use instead a packet of mixed herbs, at a 
cost of one penny. A cook should be very careful in detecting the 
commonest of all herbs, parsley, it being often mistaken for fools 
parsley, or lesser hemlock, which is of a poisonous nature. This 
may be detected by bruising the leaves, when they will emit an 
unpleasant smell, unlike parsley. 

Celery and Marjoram. 

Celery ; the red variety is best for soup, being stronger in 
flavour. 

Marjoram usually grows on chalky soil. Its leaves are small 
and sharp, and the flower slightly red. 

Savory and Thyme. 

Savory and thyme when not required for use in soups should 
be dried, powdered and bottled. 

Mint. 

Mint when dried is used for pea soup. When fresh, it should 
be chopped up and mixed with vinegar and sugar, which forms a 
refreshing seasoning for cold lamb. 

Sage. 

Sage, a garden plant, should only be used with meats of a 
strong flavoured, oily nature, such as pork or goose. 

Its aromatic qualities promote the digestion of fatty matter. 



36 



BEVERAGES. 



Tea. 

In making tea the vessel must be quite clean, then heated with 
hot water and rinsed, the dry tea put in, and boiling water poured 
over it, and the can closely covered for about 8 minutes for the 
tea to draw. 

It should then be strained, and the leaves well rinsed with the 
additional boiling water required before adding the sugar and 
milk. 

When making large quantities of tea it will be found better to 
put the dry tea into thin muslin bags, tie loosely so as to allow 
sufficient space for the leaves to expand and give out their full 
flavour ; put them in the tea vessel, pouring on the boiling water 
and allow to remain in a warm place closely covered for about 
8 minutes ; then withdraw the bags, add the milk and sugar, and 
serve as hot as possible. 

Tea should never be made in a vessel that has contained broth 
or soup. 

Coffee. 

To prevent adulteration, coffee should be bought in the bean 
and ground. The beans should be of a bright chestnut brown 
colour. Care should be taken that only sufficient coffee is ground 
for the next day's consumption, for when the bean is broken 
the aroma quickly escapes. Coffee of an inferior quality may be 
improved by the addition of chicory, but it should not be used in 
greater quantities than 2 ozs. to 1 lb. of coffee. Beans and chicory 
are used in adulterating coffee. The presence of the latter may 
be detected by sprinkling a little of the mixture on some water in 
a glass. If chicory be present it will at once sink to the bottom, 
whereas coffee will float for a time. Some should also be shaken 
up with the water, when the coffee will rise to the surface, and the 
chicory will sink. In preparing coffee, care should be taken that 
it is not allowed to boil, as by doing so its aroma is partly dissipated. 
It should, if possible, he first warmed, which causes each grain of 
the powder to separate, then the amount of boiling water required 
should be poured on it. It can easily be prepai-ed in this manner 
with Warren's apparatus. 

With the boilers, the cans should be rinsed with hot water and 
then the dry coffee placed in them, and the boiling water added 
gradually, so as to thoroughly extract its strength. It should be 
made immediately before being required, and served up as hot as 
possible. 

Cocoa. 

The concentrated cocoas prepared by well-known firms, such 
as Fry, Rowntree, Van Houten, form a pleasant change. 



IT 



Concentrated cocoas should be prepared as follows : — Put the 
cocoa and sugar into a cup or basin, mix together with a spoon, 
pour on the boiling water, stirring the whole well, add the milk 
and serve hot. When preparing it in large quantities, it will be 
found better to mix the cocoa and sugar into a thin paste with the 
milk, then add the boiling water, boil the mixture for 3 minutes, 
keeping it well stirred, then serve. The boiling develops more 
fully the riavour and aroma of the cocoa. '. ' '' •' 

A teaspoonful of cocoa for each man will be' found sufl&cient ; 
sugar, the same amount as laid down for coffee. Milk as allowed 
for tea. 



CONDIMENTS AND SEASONINGS. 



Condiments and spices are salt, pepper, cayenne, mustard, sugar, 
cloves, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, ginger, &c. 

Salt. . 

Salt is almost impossible to adulterate ; the finest is known by 
its whiteness, fine crystallisation character, dryness, complete and 
clear solution in water. 

It is the most important of the condiments, and is used exten- 
sively to prevent the decomposition of animal and vegetable 
substances, and nearly every description of food prepared. 

Pepper. 

Black and white pepper is much adulterated with meal, clay, 
grate rubbish, burnt bread, &c., which tends principally to subdue 
its strength. It should have a pungent aromatic odour, and be hot 
and acrid to the taste. 

Cayenne Pepper. 

Should be of a bright red colour. It has an acrid, aromatic, and 
extremely pungent taste, setting the mouth as it were on fire. It 
is often adulterated with brickdust. The various kinds of pepper 
are used in soups, stews, &c., to give them a warm biting flavour. 

Mustard. 

Mustard of good quality is known by its sharp acrid taste and 
smell. 

It is adulterated with pea flour, meal, &c., but this is not 
injurious to health, mustard being too bitter to use by itself. It 
is used to flavour roa.st beef, goose, &c., and tends to correct the 
elfect of the strong oily fat in the food, as alluded to when speaking 
of sage. 



28 



Sugar. 

The descriptions usually used in the Service are the white 
crystal, or granulated — Demerara, and coarse brown sugar. The 
former is nearly free from adulteration, and is generally used with 
coffee. 

The Demei'ara is the best description of brown sugar, and should 
be dry to the touch and not the least sticky or clammy. 

Coarse brown sugar frequently contains sugar mites, which may 
be detected by dissolving a little of the sugar in a glass of tepid 
water, when they will in a short time float on the surface. It is 
extensively adulterated with sand, chalk, plaster of Paris, flour, 
maize, &c. 

Sugar is used to preserve fruit, &c., and as a sweetener to many 
kinds of food and beverages, it is very nutritious. 

Cloves. 

Cloves are used to flavour soup, sauces, and puddings. 

Allspice. 

Allspice for meat, &c. 

Cinnamon. 

Cinnamon is used in sweet dishes and drinks. 

Nutmegs. 

Nutmegs in sweet dishes and various beverages. 

Mace and Ccrrt Powder. 
Mace and curry powder is used to flavour soups, stews, sauces, &c. 

Kice. 

Rice varies greatly in quality ; Carolina is the best, largest, 
and most expensive. Patna is almost as good ; the grains are 
small, long, and white ; it is used chiefly for curries. 

Madras rice is the cheapest and yields plentifully. It forms a 
most valuable article of farinaceous food, it is light, nourishing, 
easy of digestion, and cheap, and should be kept closely covered to 
keep insects from it. 

Boiling Rice in small qxixtntities. 

(1) Wash the rice in several waters, pick out the discoloured and 
unhusked grains ; and place it on to boil in plenty of cold water. 
This is the secret of having the rice whole, the water keeping the 
grains separate ; leave it uncovered and bring slowly to tne boil ; 



29 



shake it occasionally to prevent burning, but do not stir it if it can be 
avoided. When it has simmered gently from 20 to 25 minutes it 
should be tender. Patna rice will not require quite so long to cook 
as many of the other varieties. Shake in a little salt, and drain it 
on a colander, when the grain will separate and be of the finest 
flavoui-. 

To hoil Rice in large quantities. 
As it is impossible to cook rice in large quantities in the Dean's 
and other boilers in use by the above recipe, the following method 
has been found very good. Prepare the rice for boiling as already 
directed. Have ready a boiler containing 8 times moi-e water than 
there is rice, bring to a sharp boil, throw in the rice, draw the fire 
at once ; damp the boiler down, place on the lid, allow to stand for 
10 minutes, remove the lid, gently stir the rice, replace the lid, allow 
to remain for 10 minutes more, see if the rice is cooked, strain off 
the water and serve. Care should be taken that it is not allowed to 
remain too long in the boiler ; rice should never be overcooked. 



COOKING, VAEIOUS METHODS OF. 



The various methods of cooking in the Service are roasting, 
baking, boiling, steaming, stewing, frying, and broiling, and may be 
described as follows : — 

Boasting. 

Eoasting may be pei'formed in two ways : (1) With an open fire- 
place ; (2) in an oven. 

(1) To roast meat is to cook it by exposing it to the direct heat of 
the fire (360° Fah.). Authorities dififer greatly as to the best mode 
of roasting, but all agree that the fire must be bright and fierce. 

To preserve its nutritious matter, the meat should at first be 
placed close to the fire, basted and slightly dredged, by doing so the 
exterior of the meat becomes hard, which prevents the escape of the 
juices ; then withdraw it to a greater distance from the fire and 
baste until done. 

The time required is 15 to 18 minutes per 1 lb. weight, but that 
must be judged by the thickness of the joint and the quality of the 
meat. Young and fat meat requires longer than old and lean. 

If on pressing the lean part with the flat portion of a knife, the 
meat yields easily, or if the steam from the meat draws towards the 
fire, it is done. 

The loss in roasting is from 30 to 35 per cent., being the greatest 
average loss in cooking. 

Basting is pouring fat or dripping over the meat from a pan 
placed underneath. 



30 



Dredging is shaking over the meat dry flour or bread crumbs and 
salt mixed. 

(2^ Joints can only be indifferently i-oasted, however, in the 
Service, and the distinction between what is commonly called a 
roast and a bake is small. With the former the meat is resting on 
a trivet (as with a Yorkshire pudding) and to a certain extent the 
whole surface of the meat is exposed to the dry heat of the oven ; 
with a bake, a certain portion of the meat is resting on the potatoes 
and becomes partly cooked before being turned. The oven must be 
thoroughly hot before the dishes are placed in it, and the joint 
frequently turned, and the dishes moved in the oven so that each 
portion of the meat may be equally cooked. Baste and dredge 
frequently. The meat may be either larded or barded previous to 
cooking ; the former is the insertion of pieces of fat in the flesh or 
on the surface of the meat, the latter is covering lean meat with 
fat, to impart a richness it would not otherwise possess, both pro- 
cesses are similar to basting. 

Baking. 

Baking is a most convenient, economical, and satisfactory mode 
of cooking certain dishes, such as pastry, meat pies, pork, shoulder 
of mutton, &c., and it is popular with the troops. 

The best oven for baking is one sufBciently ventilated to allow 
the steam rising from the meat to escape. 

In baking pies, &c., they should, at first, be placed in the hottest 
part of the oven. When the paste is cooked it can be left on the 
bottom to simmer until done. Pork or other meats of a similar 
nature should be covered with a greased paper, to prevent the fat 
melting too quickly. 

The average loss in baking is 25 per cent. 

The heat required to bake meat is at least 345° Fahr., but more is 
necessary should there be much stock or any potatoes in the dish. 

Boiling. 

The boiling point of water is 212° Fahr., but if salt be added 
220° Fahr. will be obtained. 

To boil a joint of meat for table, it should be placed in boiling 
water, and alllowed to boil quickly for 10 minutes, then bring it to a 
simmer and allow it to remain at a temperature varying from 180° 
to 190° Fahr., it should be surrounded with plenty of water and the 
lid of the vessel kept on, care being taken that the scum rising to 
the surface of the water is frequently skimmed off, or the appear- 
ance of the meat will be spoilt. 

By placing the meat in boiling water the albumen becomes solid 
and prevents the escape of the juices. 

If soup only be required, the meat should be cut into small pieces 
and placed in cold water and allowed to simmer slowly m order to 
extract its juices as in preparing beef -tea. 



31 



Salt beef or pork should previously be soaked and washed in 
cold water, then placed in a vessel containing cold water and 
allowed to boil slowly for one hour, the water in which it has been 
boiled should then be thrown away. Refill the boiler with fresh 
cold water, and simmer gently until done. Salt meat requires a 
little longer time for cooking than fresh. It is placed in cold water 
in order to extract the salt or brine ; if put into boiling water the 
meat would become hard and indigestible. 

The average loss in boiling meat is 15 or 20 per cent., and the 
time required to cook depends upon its weight and compactness, as 
a general rule 15 or 20 minutes per 1 lb. weight. If a piece of the 
flank weighing about 15 lbs. were boiled as issued, it would require 
about one hour or so, but if boned and rolled it would require 
from 3 to 4 hours, and would then be sent up to the table as a very 
substantial joint. 

Vegetables. 

In boiling vegetables to be served separately, they should be 
placed in boiling water, with a little salt, and boiled quickly until 
tender, which will cause them to retain their saccharine juices ; 
but if for soup, they should be placed in cold water and boiled 
slowly in order to extract the juices. 

Cabbages, greens, &c., should be thoroughly cleaned, and allowed 
to remain for a short time in salt and water, this will destroy any 
small insects that may remain. They should then be placed in boiling 
water with a little salt and soda added, and boiled quickly until 
tender, then taken up and strained and served very hot, the boiler 
should be kept uncovered, as it not only helps to preserve their 
colour, but allows the indigestible part to pass away. 

Puddings. 

Puddings should also be placed in boiling water. The water 
should be kept at a steady boil. Flour when used as a thickening 
in soup, requires 30 to 40 minutes' boiling, oatmeal from 50 minutes 
to 1 hour. 

Stewinq. 

Stewing is considered the most profitable mode of cooking. If 
properly performed, tough meat is rendered tender and wholesome, 
and more nourishment is obtained than by any other process of 
cooking. It should be distinctly understood that stewing is not 
boiling, all that is required is a gradual simmering, that is, from 
170° to 180° Fahr., and by this process the coarsest and roughest 
parts of the beast will become soft, tender, and easily digestible. 

The best method of stewing is by steam, because with the 
apparatus now used in Service Kitchens it is nearly impossible to 
bring the contents of the dishes to boiling point. 

Meat of a fibrous and coarse nature, such as legs, briskets, 
buttock, clods or necks of mutton, should be issued for stewing. 
(b 10957) c 



32 



Braizing. 

Braizing is stewing meat by placing it in an air-tight stewpan, 
and the heat applied above as well as below, or it can be put in a 
very hot oven, with a small quantity of water in a dish. Average 
loss in braizing 10 per cent. 



Steaming. 

Steaming is usually performed by steam passing from a close 
boiler to a close chamber, or by placing a steamer over a boiler 
containing boiling water, or by placing a few bricks or stones at the 
bottom of the boiler, covering them with water and placing on them 
the dish containing the articles required to be cooked. 

A steamer is a vessel the bottom of which is perforated with a 
number of small holes, and should never be placed above a boiler 
until the water is at a sharp boil. 

The articles of food usually cooked by steam are meat, potatoes, 
puddings, &c. 

The average loss in steaming is 15 per cent. 

About 1^ pints of water will accumulate from the condensed 
steam during the process of cooking about 18 rations. 



Frying. 

Prying is cooking with the aid of fats, such as butter, lard, 
'dripping, suet, or olive or palm oil, &c., which should be sweet, 
■clean, fresh, and free from salt. With care the same fat should last 
a long time, but when it acquires a dark brown colour, it is no 
longer fit for use. 

It is customary to place in the pan only sufficient fat to cover 
the bottom of it, but, when possible, it will be found better to have 
sufficient fat to cover the article intended to be cooked ; in other 
words, " Frying is simply boiling in fat." 

The heat required for frying purposes is from 350° to 400° Fahr. 
A simple way to ascertain when the fat is sufficiently hot, is to 
place in it a piece of bread for a few seconds, if this becomes a 
golden brown colour it is ready ; should the bread assume a Ught 
yellow it is not hot enough, but if the bread be burnt a dark brown 
colour, the fat is too hot. 

Another way of testing is by spilling a few drops of water into 
the fat, and when the noise resulting from the evaporation of the 
water ceases the fat is ready. 

The loss in frying depends on the quality of the meat and mode 
of cooking. If properly performed there should be none. 



Broiling. 

Broilincr is cooking over" or in front of a fire, a gridiron being 
ffenerallv used, care should be taken that it is perfectly clean and 
free from grease. It should be placed on the fire slantways, the 



33 



lower part in front, this prevents the fat falling into the fire and 
causing it to smoke. The fire must be clear, bright and tolerably 
strong. 

Meat for broiling should be cut thin and of an even thickness. 
The meat then will be equally cooked throughout. 

Previous to cooking, the meat should be sprinkled with pepper, 
but not with salt. It should be frequently turned, and when firm 
to the touch on being pressed with the fiat part of the knife the 
meat is done. 

The average loss in broiling is 8 per cent. "With a clean grid- 
iron, a clear fire, close supervision, and the exercise of a little 
judgment as to when it should be required, small dainty pieces of 
meat and fish may be cooked by broiling in a manner superior to 
that obtained by any other process of cooking. 



EECIPES. 



The advantages of sending everything up to the rooms perfectly 
hot and well prepared should be impressed upon the cook. No 
dish looks so unpalatable as a meat pie carelessly made and baked. 
A pie with a light crust tastefully covered, and baked a nice brown 
even colour, is in itself an incentive to the appetite. These remarks 
apply equally to every dish usually prepared in a regimental cook- 
house, and the serjeant-cook should satisfy himself that all dishes, 
(SC., leaving the cookhouse are properly served. 

Gravy. 

Place the required quantity of stock in a stewpan, bring the 
contents to the boil ; make the thickening by mixing flour with 
cold water or stock, into a smooth batter ; add the thickening, 
keeping it well stirred to prevent it burning ; allow it to simmer 
gently for 30 minutes ; add the bay leaves or mixed herbs and 
seasoning, and allow the leaves to remain for a few minutes ; re- 
move them, colour the gravy by adding a small quantity of caramel 
made as follows : — 

Place 4 ozs. of sugar in a small stewpan, place it on the fire and 
allow it to remain until the sugar is of a very dark colour, when it 
will be seen to boil or bubble ; add about 1^ pints of water, and 
simmer for a few minutes ; allow it to partly cool and place in a 
bottle ready for use. 

Paste for Pies. 

In preparing paste the cook should place his hands under a tap 
for a few minutes, so that they may be quite cold before touching 
the ingredients. 

Ingredients : — "Flour, dripping, salt, and cold water. 

(b 10957) c 2 



34 



Method: — Finely shred the dripping, should it be hard ; if soft, it 
must be broken into small pieces about the size of a walnut. Mix 
the flour and salt well together, add the dripping, which should not 
be rubbed into the flour, but carefully mixed. Work the whole 
lightly into a smooth paste, with the required quantity of cold 
water, turn out on the table, fold and roll about four times, or press 
lightly with the hands, roll out, and it is fit for use. 

Baked Meat with Potatoes. 
Meat, potatoes, onions, pepper, salt. 

Peel and wash the potatoes, having them as nearly as possible all 
one size ; peel, clean, and cut up the onions ; grease the bottom of 
a baking dish, or place in sufficient stock to barely cover the bottom 
of it ; put in the potatoes, leaving a slight hollow in the centre, into 
which shake the onions, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

Carefully bone the meat, roll and skewer into a nice joint, place 
it on the potatoes (worst side up), in order that when the meat is 
cooked it may be sent to the table with as good an appearance a& 
possible. When it has been in the oven for \\ hours it should be 
taken out and turned, then replaced until cooked. Before the dish 
is sent to the table, all liquid fat should be removed and plenty of 
gravy poured over the meat. Should the joint be very lean it may 
be covered with very thin slices of fat before putting in the oven. 

Baked Meat with Haricot Beans. 

Meat, haricot beans, onions, pepper, salt. 
Proceed as for baked meat and peas. 

In cooking these dishes, should the peas or beans absorb all the 
stock, a little more must be added (hot). 

Baked Meat with Blue Peas. 
Meat, blue peas, onions, pepper, salt. 

Soak the peas over-night, and place them in the baking-dish 
with sufficient stock to cover them ; add the onions (sliced up), with 
salt and pepper ; prepare the meat, and proceed as for baked meat 
and potatoes. 

Eoast Meat and Yorkshire Puddikg. 

Meat, flour, milk, pepper, salt, egg powder. 
Prepare the meat as for baked meat. 

Blend the flour, salt, pepper, and egg powders, well together, in 
a dish, make a well in the centre, add nearly the whole of the mil«c, 
mix into a smooth batter to reduce the lumps of flour, then add the 
remainder of the milk, beating the batter well up, to make it light, 
grease the inside of the dish with some liquid fat, pour m the batter. 
Place on the trivet containing the meat, put the whole into a hot 



35 



oven. During the cooking the dish must be frequently removed, 
the meat basted and the batter lifted from the sides of the dish, to 
prevent it from being burnt. 

When the joints are large they should be put in the oven about 
45 minutes previous to putting in the batter. This prevents the 
latter from being cooked before the meat. Care should be obsei'ved 
when putting in the batter that the fat used is clean, sweet and 
not scorched. 

EoAST Meat Stuffed. 

Meat, bread, onions, parsley, eggs, pepper, salt, picked suet. 

Crumble the bread into fine crumbs. Free the suet from 
skin and mince finely. Wash, dry and chop the parsley. Peel, clean 
and cut up the onions as small as possible, boil them for a few 
minutes or until they get tender, then strain the water off them. 
Put the bread crumbs, suet, parsley, and onions into a dish, season 
with pep]jer and salt. Mix the whole well together. Break the eggs 
into a small basin or cup, beat them up well, add to the bread crumbs, 
&c., mixing thoroughly. When this is done, form the mixture into 
balls about 2 inches in diameter, and stuff the meat as follows : — 

If ribs or sirloin, bone them, lay on the stvilfing, roll the meat 
round and skewer it up, and place it in the baking dish, and allow 
12 to 15 minutes per lb. to cook. 

Shoulder of Mutton. — Take out the blade bone, lay on the 
stuffing, and roll up the meat. 

Leg of Mutton. — Make an incision above the pelvic bone and fill 
with stufiing. 

The flavour of the stuffing may be varied by using sage, thyme, or 
marjoram. Sage should always be used for goose, duck, or pork. 

Brown Curry Stew and Eice. 

Ingredients as for a plain stew with the addition of 5 ozs. curry 
powder and 6 lbs. of rice. See p. 36. 

Meat Pie. 

Meat, flour, dripping, pepper, salt, onions. Make the paste, 
separate the meat from the bones, and cut into pieces about 1 oz. 
ea,ch ; place a little stock in the baking dish, then the meat and 
sliced onions, season with salt and pepper, and barely cover with 
stock, level the surface of the pie, line the sides of the dish with the 
rough portion of the paste, and cover with the remainder ; make a 
hole in the centre, which will allow the unwholesome gas generated 
by the confined meat cooking to escape ; place in the oven ; when 
the crust becomes firm the pie should only be allowed to simmer 
gently until cooked ; cover with a greased paper if necessary, to 
prevent the crust being scorched. 



36 



Stews, 



Brown Stew. 

Ingredients same as for plain stew, and prepared in a similar 
manner, and cook in the oven. It requires to be frequently stirred, 
care being taken that the ovens are only moderately hot. 

Plain Stew. 

Meat, mixed vegetables, onions, flour, pepper, salt. 

Peel or scrape, clean and cut up the vegetables and onions ; 
separate the meat from the bones, and cut it, against the grain, into 
pieces of 2 ozs. each ; mix the dry flour, salt and pepper well 
together ; place a little stock in the cooking vessel, rub the pieces 
of meat in the dry flour and add to the stock, put in the vegetables 
and onions, barely covering the whole with stock ; let it simmer 
gently for 3 hours, keeping the vessel closely covered until done. 

Irish Stew. 
Meat, potatoes, onions, pepper, salt, stock. 

Peel, wash, and slice the potatoes ; peel, clean, and cut up the 
onions ; separate the meat from the bones, and cut into small 
pieces ; place a little stock in the cooking vessel, and a layer of 
potatoes at the bottom, then a layer of meat and onions ; season 
with pepper and salt, then another layer of potatoes, and so on 
alternately, until the vessel is nearly full, potatoes forming the top 
layer ; barely cover the whole with stock, and stew gently for 
3 hours, keeping the vessel closely covered, care being taken that 
it does not burn. 

The surplus fat must always be removed previous to cooking, as 
an Irish stew should not be greasy. 

When preparing stews in camp kettles, care should be taken that 
they are not allowed to boil, or the meat will become hard and 
indigestible. 

OuRRT Stew. 

Ingredients the same as for stew, with the addition of curry 
^°Mix the curry with the dry flour, and proceed as for plain stew. 

Steamed Meat. 

Meat, mixed vegetables, onions, pepper, salt, stock, as required. 

Peel or scrape, clean and cut up the vegetables and onions. 
Bone, roll, and skewer the meat into small joints. 

Put the vegetables and onions at the bottom of the cooking vessel, 
season with pepper and salt, barely cover with stock. Put m the 
meat worst side up. Place on the steam, after cooking for 1 hour 
the meat should be turned, then replaced on the steam till done. 

With a moderate steam will take 3 hours to cook. 



37 



Steamed Meat with Peas. 

Meat, onions, blue peas, pepper, salt, stock as required. 

Soak the peas overnight, peel and slice the onions. Bone, roll, and 
skewer the meat into small joints, place the peas at the bottom of 
the cooking vessel, over which sprinkle the sliced onions, season with 
pepper and salt, barely cover with stock, put in the meat worst side 
up and place on the steam. After cooking for 1 hour the meat should 
be turned, then replaced on the steam till done. 

"With a moderate steam it will take 3 hours to cook. 

Steamed Meat with Haricot Beans. 

Meat, onions, haricot beans. 
Pepper, salt, stock as required. 

Proceed as for " Steamed Meat and Peas," using haricot beans 
instead of peas. If during the process of cooking the haricot beans 
absorb all the moisture, a little hot stock should be added. 

Meat Puddings. 

Meat, flour, dripping, onions, baking powder, pepper, salt. 

Prepare the ' paste and divide it into portions ; separate the 
meat from the bones and cut it into thin slices ; peel, clean, and slice 
the onions ; have some basins ready, and equally divide the meat, 
onions, pepper, and salt ; barely cover the whole with stock, damp 
the edges of the basins, and cover with the paste ; place eight at the 
bottom of the steamer, then put in two trivets with a strainer, which 
will hold eight more basins, and so on until the steamer is full. 

With a good steam they will require 3 hours to cook. Each basin 
should contain two men's rations. 

Sea Pie. 

Meat, potatoes, mixed vegetables, onions, flour, suet or dripping, 
pepper, salt. 

Peel or scrape, clean and cut up the vegetables and onions ; peel, 
wash, and slice the potatoes in halves lengthwise. 

Make the paste, separate the meat from the bones, and cut into 
small pieces ; place some stock in the cooking vessel, add the meat 
with the potatoes, vegetables, onions, &c., season with pepper and 
salt, barely covering the whole with stock ; cover with the paste, 
niaking a hole in the centre. With a moderate steam, it requires 
3 hours to cook. 

Turkish Pillau. 

Meat, rice, cayenne pepper, onions, salt, sweet herbs, flour, stock 
as required. 

Peel and slice the onions, separate the meat from the bones, cut 
it into small pieces. 



38 



Place the flour, cayenne pepper and salt in a dish, well mix 
together ; rub the pieces of meat in dry flour. Pour a little stock in 
the bottom of the dish, add the meat, onions, and sweet herbs, 
barely cover with stock, and stir the whole together. 

Place in the oven, care being taken that it is only moderately hot 
and the stew frequently stirred. 

Boil the rice as directed for boiled rice, having it ready about 
45 minutes before the dinners are served. 

Line the sides of a separate dish with the rice, pour the pillau in 
the centre, then replace in the oven till time to serve. 



TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

Meat, onions, flour, egg powder, milk, pepper, salt, stock as 
required. 

Se'parate the meat from the bones, cut it into small square pieces. 

Peel, clean and cut up the onions. 

Make the batter as directed for Yoi'kshire pudding. 

Put ^ of the flour into a dish, add the pepper and salt, mix well 
together. Rub the pieces of meat in the dry flour, barely cover 
the bottom of the cooking vessel with stock, put in the meat, onions, 
and sufficient stock to barely cover the meat, &c. Stir the whole 
well up, and level the surface. Put it in the oven, allow to stew for 
1 hour, remove the dish, pour the batter over the meat, so as to 
cover it, replace it in the hottest part of the oven ; when nicely 
browned it should be placed on the bottom to simmer gently till 

done. . . 

Note. — In preparing the batter care must be taken that it is not 
made too thin, or when poured over the meat, it will sink to the 
bottom, forcing the gravy to the top. 

Beef Rissoles. 

Mince finely 1 lb. of Australian beef or mutton, add \ lb. of 
bread crumbs ; mix thoroughly with it \ lb. of dripping, a little salt, 
rather plentiful supply of pepper. Divide into balls or cones, and 
fry in boiling fat until nicely browned ; serve in a dish with some 
thick gravy poured round. 



Beef Rissoles (another way). 

Mince finely 1 lb. of Australian beef or mutton, add \ lb. of bread 
crumbs ; mix thoroughly with it J lb. of dripping, a little salt and 

^^Pkce a small piece of butter, about the size of a walnut, iu a 
saucepan, and one onion chopped fine, and stew gently till of a nice 
brown colour, keeping the saucepan closely covered ; add the other 
ingredients, stir the whole well together, divide into balls or cones, 
and fry a nice brown colour, and serve with some flavoured gravy. 



39 



Beef Fbittees. 

^ lb. of Australian beef or mutton, | lb. of flour, i pint of water, 
2 ozs. of butter, the whites of two eggs. . • „ * 

Make a smooth batter with the flour and water ; stir m 2 ozs ot 
butter, which must be melted, but not oiled, and, just before it is 
to be used, add the whites of two well whisked eggs. Should the 
latter be too thick more water must be added. Pare down the beet 
into thin shreds, season with pepper and salt, mix it with the batter. 
Drop«, small quantity at a time into a pan of boiling fat, and try 
from 7 to 10 minutes, according to the size. When done on one 
side, turn and brown them on the other ; let them dry f or a mmute 

or two and serve. . .-1,1,^4.4. 

A small quantity of finely minced onions mixed with the batter 

is an improvement. 

Minced Beef. 

1 lb. of Australian beef or mutton, 1 oz. of butter, 1 onion, 1 oz. 
of flour, stock, salt and pepper to taste. 

Put into a stewpan the butter, with an onion chopped fine, and 
the flour ; stir these ingredients over the fire until the onion is a 
rich brown, add the required quantity of stock, season with pepper 
and salt. Cut, but do not chop the meat very fine, add it to the 
gravy, stir till quite hot and serve. _ 

Make a border of mashed potatoes round the dish, pour the meat 
in the centre. 

Tomato Stew. 

I7igredients.—M.ea,t 45 lbs., onions 2 lbs., tomatoes 6 lbs. (or 3 tins 
of preserved tomatoes), flour 2 lbs., salt 2 ozs., pepper 1 oz. 

Cut up the meat as for stew. Place the flour, salt and pepper m 
a dish, well mix together. 

Peel and cut up the onions. 

Put the tomatoes, onions, and a little stock in the bottom of the 
cooking vessel, rub the meat in the dry flour, place in the dish, add 
suflttcient stock to barely cover the meat. Stir well. Cook either 
in the oven, on the steam or over a fire for 3 hours. 

Beef Sausages. 

Ingredients for 60 moi.— 9 lbs. lean beef (exclusive of bone, fat or 
sinew), 3 lbs. suet, 3 lbs. bread crumbs, ^ packet of thyme or 
marjoram, 2 oz. salt, J oz. pepper. 

Method. — Cut up the meat and suet into small cubes and pass it 
through the mincing machine, moisten the bread crumbs until they 
become a stiff pulp, add the salt, pepper, and herbs to the pulp and 
mix very thoroughly together, then add to the minced meat and 
again mix thoroughly together until the ingredients are equally 
distributed. Soak the sau.sage skins in cold water for some hours 
previous to using them. Take the cutter out of the mincing machine. 



40 



lit on the sausage filler, run a skin on to it and fill with the mixture. 
To make sausages weighing 8 to the pound, they should on no 
account be larger than the small end of the sausage filler. 

Beef Rissoles. 

Ingredients for 60 men. — 18 lbs. lean beef (exclusive of bone, fat, 
or sinews), 5 lbs. suet, 5 lbs. bread crumb-s, 2 lbs. flour, 2 lbs. onions, 
1 packet mixed herbs, 4 ozs. salt, ^ oz. pepper. 

Method. — Cut up the meat and suet into small cubes, place the 
flour, pepper, salt, and herbs into a mixing bowl and well' mix 
together, add the meat and suet and rub into the flour, &c., then 
pass the whole through a mincing machine. 

Mix the bread crumbs into a stiff pulp with cold water, add to the 
other ingredients and mix well until they are equally distributed. 
Flour a table and weigh out portions at f lb. per man ; mould into 
shape and place in a greased dish. 

The rissoles should be cooked in a moderate oven for about one 
hour, then the fat poured off" and a rich brown gravy added to them 
in sufficient quantities to nearly cover ; replace in the oven and 
simmer for another | hour. 

Brawn. 

Ingredients. — 1 bullock's head, 1 set of cow heels, 1 packet of 
spice, 1 oz. saltpetre, 2 lbs. of salt, I5 oz. of pepper, 2 gallons of 
water if boiled, 1 if steamed. 

Trim the head, removing the skin round the outside of the 
mouth, also the nostrils, and well wash in cold water ; then saw it 
in two lengthways and through the lower part of the cheek bone ; 
also through the thick part of the skull (avoid the use of the 
chopper, as it is neai'ly impossible afterwards to remove the small 
splinters from the bones), thus leaving the head in six pieces. Scald 
and clean the heels, splitting them lengthways, removing the large 
bone above the fetlock, place the whole in cold water in which 1 lb. 
of salt and 1 oz. of saltpetre has been dissolved and allow it to 
remain for 10 or 12 hours. Place 2 gallons of cold water in the boiler, 
udd the head, heels, and bones, and "as soon as it boils allow it to 
simmer gently for 5 or 6 hours, the fat or scum being frequently 
skimmed off ; remove the bones from the liquid, and if necessary 
chop or mince any large pieces of meat that may remain, add the 
remaining salt, pepper, and spice, stir the whole well together, 
seeing that the meat is equally mixed with the liquor. Dish up in 
basins, baking dishes, &c., and allow it to cool. If the heels be 
tough or old, they may be simmered for 1 hour before adding the 
head. 

Cost hs. Eesult — 38 to 40 lbs. Brawn. 

(J. I a. (/. 



s. 

Cost of above ingredients ... 4 9 

Coal 0 3 

Balance credit ... 0 %\ 

Total 5 8 J 



Sale of 38 to 40 lbs. brawn 

at nd 4 9^ 

Sale of 2 lbs. dripping at 

■kl • 0 8 

Sale of boues 0 3 

Total 5 Si 



41 



Faggots Baked. 

Mix a mince meat of calf's liver, or, if more convenient, pig's 
liver and fresh fat pork. Chop very finely Ij lbs. of fresh fat pork. 
Season with onion, sage, thyme, salt, and pepper. 

Steam over boiling water, and throw off all the fat. When cold 
add a large cupful of bread crumbs ; mix all well together. 
Thoroughly flavour with nutmeg, and make up into round balls, 
which may be baked in a buttered dish, with a small quantity of 
good gravy, or, as is often done, wrapped separately in a piece of 
pig's caul. In either case they should be of a pale brown, and 
cooked very slowly. Time to steam mince meat, half-an-hour ; to 
bake in a moderately hot oven, 45 minutes. 

Australian Meat Curried. 

Curry, flour, onions, dripping, salt, pepper, and rice. 

Place the dripping, curry, flour, onions, chopped up fine in a 
stewpan ; stir the whole together in the stewpan till the onions are 
nicely browned, add the stock and stir gently till it becomes smooth ; 
let the whole simmer gently for 30 minutes, removing the fat. 

Cut the meat up into dice, about the size of a walnut, add this 
to the gravy, season with pepper and salt ; set by the side of the 
fire till thoroughly heated through. 

Make a border of boiled rice round the dish, pour the curry in 
the centre, and serve hot. 

Broiled Beef Steak. 

As the success of a good broil so much depends on the state of 
the fire, see that it is bright and clear, and perfectly free from 
smoke, and do not add any fresh fuel just before the gridiron is to 
be used. Sprinkle a little salt on the fire, put on the gridiron for 
a few minutes to get thoroughly hot, rub it with a piece of fresh 
suet to prevent the meat from sticking, and lay on the steaks, 
which should be cut an equal thickness about | inch, or rather 
thinner, and level them by beating them (as little as possible) with 
a rolling-pin ; turn them frequently with steak tongs (if these are 
not at hand stick a fork in the edge of the fat so that no gravy 
escapes), and in 8 or 10 minutes the steak will be done. Have 
ready a very hot dish, into which put the ketchup, and, when liked, 
a little minced shalot, dish up the steaks, rub them over with 
butter and season with pepper and salt. They should not be 
cooked before the time required, as their excellence depends upon 
being served very hot. 

Fried Beef Steak. 

Although broiling is a superior method of cooking steaks to 
frying them, yet, when the cook is not expert, the latter mode 
may be adopted, and when properly done, the dish may look 



42 



inviting, and the flavour be good. The steaks should be cut rather 
thinner than for broiling, and with a small quantity of fat for each. 
Put some dripping into a frying pan, and let it get quite hot, then 
lay in the steaks. Turn them frequently until done, which will be 
in about 8 minutes or rather more should the steaks be very thick ; 
serve on a very hot dish, season with pepper and salt. They should 
be sent to table quickly, as, when cola, the steaks are entirely 
spoiled. 

Mutton Chops, Broiled. 

Cut the chops from the loin of mutton, remove a portion of the 
fat, and trim into a nice shape, slightly beat and level them, place 
the gridiron over a bright, clear fire, rub the bars with a little fat, 
and place on the chops ; while broiling, frequently turn them, and 
in about 8 minutes they will be done ; season with pepper and salt, 
and dish them on a very hot dish, rub a piece of butter on each 
chop, and serve hot. 

Eggs. 

Poached. — Break some new-laid eggs into separate cups ; then 
drop them one after the other into a stewpan containing boiling 
water, mixed with a tablespoonful of white vinegar and a little 
salt ; keep this boiling while the eggs are dropped in at the side of 
the stewpan ; when they have boiled for 2 minutes, drain them on 
a clean cloth, then place each one on a square or oval piece of dry 
toast or fried ham, bacon, &c. 

Boiled, for breakfast, should be placed in boiling water, and 
allowed from 3 to 3j minutes to set the whites nicely ; if liked hard, 
6 to 7 minutes will not be found too long ; for salad, they should 
be boiled 10 to 15 minutes. 

Fried Bacon. 

Cut the bacon into thin slices, trim away the rusty part, and cut 
off the rind ; put into a cold frying pan, that is to say, do not place 
the pan on the fire before the bacon is in it ; turn it 2 or 3 times, 
and dish it on a very hot dish, poach the eggs, and slip them on to 
the bacon without breaking the yolk, and serve quickly. 

Omelette with Fine Herbs. 

Break 3 eggs in a basin ; to these add a tablespoonful of cream, 
a small pat of butter broken into small pieces : a little chopped 
parsley and shalot, some pepper and salt ; then put 2 ozs. fresh 
butter in an omelette pan on the stove fire ; while the butter is 
melting, whip the eggs, &c., well together until they become frothy ; 
as soon as the butter begins to fritter, pour the eggs into the pan, 
and stir the omelette ; as the eggs appear to set and become firm, 
roll the omelette into the form of an oval cushion ; allow it to 
acquire a golden colour on one side over the fire ; then turn it out 
on a dish, pour a little thin sauce round it, and serve. 



43 



Barley Soup. 

Stock, barley, mixed vegetables, onions, flour, pepper, salt, 
celery seed. 

Scald the barley by pouring boiling water over it, allow to 
stand for a few minutes, then throw the water away. If this is 
omitted, the soup will be of a bluish colour. 

Proceed as for pea soup, the barley being added after the stock 
has arrived at the boiling point. Omit the dried mint, celery seed 
being added with the pulped vegetable. 

Pea Soup. 

Stock, split peas, mixed vegetables, onions, flour, pepper, salt, 
dried mint. Place the stock in the boiler, scrape and clean the 
vegetables and onions, place them in the stock with the peas ; as 
soon as the latter comes to the boil, let it simmer gently until the 
vegetables are tender, then take them out and pulp them ; mix the 
flour, pepper, and salt into a smooth batter, add the pulped vege- 
tables, and mix well together ; bring the contents of the boiler to a 
sharp boil, add the thickening, and stir quietly until it comes to the 
boil again, then let it simmer for 30 minutes, and serve ; rub the 
dried mint to a powder, put a little in each can, and pour the soup 
over it. 

Lentil Soup. 

Ingredients. — Lentils, mixed vegetables, onions, flour, celery 
seed, pepper, salt, stock. 

Proceed as for pea soup, using lentils instead of peas, adding 
the celery seed with the thickening. 

Lentil and Pea Soup. 

Stock, lentils, split peas, mixed vegetables, onions,'' flour, pepper, 
salt, mixed herbs 1 packet. 
Proceed as for Lentil Soup. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

Soak the blue peas over night. Peel or scrape, clean, and cut 
the vegetables and onions into small square pieces. Scald the 
barley by pouring boiling water over it, allow it stand for a few 
minutes, then throw the water away. Clean and cut the lettuce, 
or cabbage, into small pieces. Place stock into a boiler, add the 
peas, barley, vegetables, onions, parsley, cabbage, and herbs. Bring 
the whole to a simmer, and allow to simmer gently till the peas, 
barley, &c., are cooked. Make the thickening by mixing the flour, 
pepper, and salt with a little cold water. Bring the soup to a sharp 
boil, add the thickening, and keep it stirred till it comes to the boil 
again, then add the celery seed ; allow it to simmer about half-an- 
hour. Draw the fire and damp the boiler down till time to serve. 



44 



Tomato Soup. 

Ingredients for 60 men. —Onions, 4 lbs. ; tomatoes, 8 lbs. (or 4 tins 
of preserved tomatoes) ; haricot beans, 6 lbs. ; flour, lib.; salt, 
2 ozs. ; pepper, 1 oz. ; 6 gallons of stock. 

Soak the Deans for 12 hoiu's in plenty of cold water. Cook them 
by steam for 3 hours or until they are soft. Meanwhile peel and 
cut up the onions very small ; add them to the stock, also the 
tomatoes. Allow the contents of the boiler to simmer gently until 
the onions ai'e cooked and the tomatoes are reduced to pulp. 
Remove the beans, and pulp them. This can be done either with 
the usual vegetable masher or by passing them through a mincing 
machine. Add the flour, pepper and salt and the pulped beans ; 
bring the soup to the boil. Stir in the beans. Allow to cook 
slowly for 45 minutes, then serve. 



Plain Pudding. 

Flour, dripping, baking powder, salt. Mix the flour, salt, and 
baking powder well together, shred the dripping if hard, if soft 
break it into small pieces ; the dripping must not be rubbed into 
the flour. Add the dripping to the flour, mix together, moisten 
with sufficient cold water, mixing lightly till it forms a tolerably 
soft dough. Divide into equal portions, roll and tie each securely 
in a cloth, which has been previously wrung out of boiling water 
and floured, leaving room for the pudding to swell. Boil for 3 to 
4 hours. 

Plum Pudding. 

Flom-, raisins, currants, dripping, salt, baking powder, treacle, 
or sugar. Stone and chop up the raisins, or use sultanas ; wash, 
dry, and carefully pick the currants, add them to the flour, dripping, 
salt, and backing powder ; mix the treacle, or sugar with the water 
required, and add to the remainder and stir well together. 

Tie up in a cloth as in plain pudding, and boil gently for 3 hours ; 
spice, sugar, or eggs added is an improvement. This pudding may 
also be cooked by steam. Have the required number of basins (one 
being sufficient for two men), rinse them in water, and equally 
divide the pudding ; then proceed as for meat puddings. 

Jam Eolls. 

Ingredients.— The same as for paste, with the addition of jam. 
Prepare the paste, and roll it out until it is about h inch thick, 
spread the jam over it, damp the edges of the paste and roll it up, 
care being taken that the paste at the ends adheres to each other to 
prevent the jam boiling out, roll up in a cloth as with a plain 
pudding, and boil gently for 3 hours. 



45 



Currant Eolls. 

Ingredients.— The same as for plain pudding, with the addition 
of currants and sugar. 

Proceed as for jam rolls, wash and dry the currants, picking out 
the stalks and any grit that may remain, distribute the currants 
equally over the paste ; add a thin layer of sugar, roll and finish as 
for jam rolls. 

Raisin Pudding. 

Flour, raisins, dripping, egg powder, baking powder, salt. 

Stone and chop up the raisins if time will allow ; if not, use 
sultana raisins, shred the dripping, then mix the flour, baking 
powder, egg powder, salt, and dripping, add the raisins, and mix 
w^ell together ; add sufficient water to make a rather stiff paste, 
divide it into equal poi-tions, tie in a cloth, and boil for 4 hours ; if 
rolled, as in a plain suet pudding, hours will be found sufficient. 

Date Pudding. 
Dates, flour, sugar, dripping, salt, nutmegs. 

Stone the dates, shred the dripping, place the flour, salt, 
sugar, and grated nutmeg in a dish, mix together, add the 
dates and dripping, mix the whole well together ; moisten with 
suflicient cold water (mixing lightly) to make a tolerably soft 
dough. 

Tie up in cloths as in plain pudding, and boil gently for 3^ hours. 

Baked Rice Pudding. 
Rice, milk, sugar, nutmegs, butter. 

Wash the rice in cold water, and boil until nearly tender, strain 
the water from the rice, butter the sides of the baking dish, mix the 
milk and sugar together, divide the rice equally between the dishes, 
and well mix with the milk and sugar ; distribute the butter in 
small pieces over the surface, grate a little nutmeg over the top, 
and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Slices of candied peel, 
currants, or sultana raisins may be added to improve the flavour. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 
Bread, sugar, currants, butter, milk, suet. 

Cut the bread into moderately thin slices (remove any hard 
crust), butter it ; wash, dry, and carefully pick the currants, free the 
suet from skin and chop fine ; place a layer of bread at the bottom 
of the dish, a layer of currants and sugar, and suet, then another 
layer of bread, and so on alternately, till the dish is nearly full. 
Pour in the milk at the side of the dish until it appears on the 
surface. Bake of a nice brown colour in a moderate oven. It will 
require 1^ hours. 



46 



Tapioca. 

Tapioca, milk, sugar, nutmegs, butter ; soak the tapioca in a 
small quantity of water, divide it equally in the dishes, add 
the sugar to the milk, and well mix with the tapioca, break the 
butter in small pieces, distribute over the surface of the pudding, 
grate a nutmeg over each dish, and bake for 1 hour or longer, 
according to the size of the pudding. 

Apple Pies or Tarts. 

Flour, apples, dripping, baking powder, sugar, cloves. 

Make the paste described in No. 1, peel, core, and cut the apples 
into slices, place a thin border of paste round the sides of the 
dishes, and add the sugar and cloves, with sufficient water to cover 
the bottom of the dish, cover with paste, and bake in a quick oven 
for 1 hour. 

Apple Pudding. 

Flour, apples, baking powder, sugar, cloves, salt, dripping. 

Make the paste, peel, core, and cut the apples into slices. Line 
the inside of a " Dean's " or " Warren's Cooker " with a portion of 
the paste. Place in the apples, sugar, and cloves, well cover the 
bottom of the cooker with water, cover with the remainder of the 
paste, and with a moderate steam will require from 2 to 2| hours 
to cook. 

Apple Rings. 

Apple rings, or any fruit from which the moisture has been 
evaporated, should be soaked in the same quantity of water for 
eight or nine hours. They are then used as detailed for apple tarts, 
care being taken, however, to see that they do not get dry during 
the process of cooking. Dried or evaporated fruits require more 
time to cook and absorb more water than fresh fruit. 

Dried Figs and Prunes. 

If for stewing, they should be separated and picked over, then 
soaked overnight in sufficient water to cover them. Figs or prunes 
may be stewed by means of steam, or in a covered dish in an oven. 
Sufficient sugar to sweeten them should be added, and if required, 
a little lemon flavouring. 

Figs for puddings should be prepared as for stewing, the hard 
stems removed and the fruit cut into small pieces, then proceed as 
for Date Pudding. 

Treacle Pudding. , 

Flour, treacle, baking powder, egg powder, salt, dripping. 

Place the flour, baking and egg powders, with salt in a dish, 
mix well. Put in the chopped dripping, add sufficient cold water 
to make a tolerably stiff paste. 



47 



Eoll out about half an inch thick, spread the treacle over the 
surface of the paste, damp the edges, roll round, taking care that 
the ends adhere to each other to prevent the treacle from boiling 
out. Tie in a cloth, and boil gently fi-om 2^ to 3 hours. 

Treacle Tarts. 

Flour, treacle, dripping, baking powder, and bread crumbs. 

Make the paste. Grease the inside of a pie dish. Eoll out the 
paste to about one-eighth of an inch thick ; line the inside of the 
dish ; spread a thin layer of treacle at the bottom ; sprinkle on the 
bread crumbs. Cut a piece of paste the size of the dish. Place this 
on the top, add another layer of treacle, then a layer of paste, 
and so on till the dish is nearly full ; bake in a moderate oven till 
done ; time required for baking depends upon the size of the dish ; 
an ordinary dish about 1^ hours. 

Macaroni Pudding, 

Ingredients for 60 men— 6 lbs. macaroni ; 3 gallons milk ; 3 lbs. 
sugar ; 1 nutmeg ; ^ lb. butter. 

Break the macaroni into pieces about 1 inch long. Drop them 
into boiling water to which a little salt has been added, and simmer 
for about 40 minutes. 

Proceed as for Eice Pudding. 

Biscuit Pudding. 
Ingredients for 60 men.— 10 lbs. biscuit crumbs; 4 lbs. flour; 

3 lbs. sugar ; 3 lbs. suet ; 41 tablespoonfuls lemon or lime juice. 
Pinch of salt. 

i/eZi^od— Thoroughly dry the biscuits, then crush with a rolling 
pin or pass through a mincing machine. Soak in cold water for 
about 15 minutes. Eemove all skin from the suet, then chop very 
fine. Add the flour, sugar, suet, salt and lime juice to the soaked 
biscuits. Stir well together with sufficient water to make a stiff 
paste._ Grease some basins or dishes and boil or bake till done. 
The time allowed for cooking depends on the size of the pudding. 

Bread Crumb Pudding. 
Ingredients for 60 mew.— 8 lbs. bread crumbs ; 4 lbs. flour • 3 lbs 
currants ; 3 lbs. raisins ; 3 lbs. suet ; 3 lbs. sugar ; a little spice and 
a pinch of salt. 

^e^Aoc^.— Carefully prepare the fruit, then proceed as for biscuit 
pudding. 

Baked Costard Puddings for 5 or 6 Persons. 
]i pints of milk, the rind of J lemon, i lb. of moist sugar, and 

4 eggs. Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar and lemon 
rmd, and let this infuse for half an hour, or until the milk is well 
flavoured, whisk the eggs, yolks and white ; add the milk to them, 

(b 10957) jj ' 



48 



stirring all the while ; then have ready a pie dish, lined at the edges 
•with paste already baked ; strain the custard into the dish, grate a 
little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a very slow oven for about 
half an hour or a little longer ; the flavour of the pudding may be 
varied by substituting bitter almonds for the lemon rind, and it may 
be much enriched by using half cream and half milk, and doubling 
the quantity of eggs. 

Arrowroot Blanc Mange for 5 ob 6 Persons. 

4 large tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, 1| pints of milk, 3 laurel 
leaves, or the rind of | a lemon, sugar to taste ; mix to a smooth 
batter the arrowroot with ^ pint of milk ; put the other pint on the 
fire, with laurel leaves or lemon peel, whichever may be preferred, 
and let the milk simmer until it is well flavoured. Then strain the 
milk and add it boiling to the mixed arrowroot ; sweeten with sifted 
sugar, and let it boil, stirring it all the time, till it thickens suflaciently 
to come from the saucepan ; grease a mould with pure salad oil, pour 
in the blanc mange, and when quite set, turn it out on a dish, and 
pour round it a compote of any kind of fruit, or garnish it with jam. 
A tablespoonful of brandy, stirred in just before the blanc mange is 
moulded, very much improves the flavour of this dish. Cost 6d. 
with the garnishing. 

Cheap Blanc Mange. 

J lb. sugar, 1 quart milk, 1^ ozs. isinglass, the rind of | lemon, 
4 laurel leaves. Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan, and 
boil gently until the isinglass is dissolved ; taste it occasionally to 
ascertain whether it is suflBciently flavoui-ed with the laurel leaves ; 
then take them out and keep stirring the mixture over the fire for 
about 10 minutes ; strain it through a fine sieve into a jug, and 
when nearly cold, pour it into a well oiled mould, omitting the 
sediment at the bottom, turn it out carefully on a dish, and garnish 
with preserves, bright jelly, or a compote of fruit. 

Baked Rice Pudding for 5 or 6 Persons. 

Small teacupful of rice, 4 eggs, 1 pint milk, 2 ozs. fresh butter, 
2 ozs. beef marrow, J lb. of currants, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 
1 nutmeg, J lb. Sugar, and the rind of ^ a lemon. 

Put the lemon rind and milk into a stewpan, and let it infuse 
until the milk is well flavoured with the lemon ; in the meantime, 
boil the rice until tender in water, with a very small quantity of 
salt, and when done, let it be thoroughly drained ; beat the eggs, 
stii' in them the milk, which should be strained ; the butter, marrow, 
currants, and remaining ingredients ; add the rice and mix the 
whole together, line the edge of the dish with puflt paste, put in the 
pudding and bake in a slow oven for about three-quarters of an hour. 
Slices of lemon peel may be added, or sultana raisins may be 
substituted for the currants. 



49 



Tapioca Pudding. 

Put 10 ozs. of tapioca into a stewpan with a quart of milk, 6 ozs. 
of sugar, 2 ozs. butter, a pinch of salt, and some grated lemon peel, 
stir this over the fire till it boils, then withdraw it ; add 4 eggs, mix 
well and bake for half-an-hour in a pie dish. If the eggs be whipped 
separately, and gently mixed in with preparation, the pudding will 
be much lighter. All kinds of farinaceous substances may be 
prepared as above. 

Plain Bread Pudding for 5 or 6 Persons. 

Odd pieces of crumb of bread, salt, grated nutmeg, moist sugar, 
currants, and butter. Break the bread into small pieces, and 
pom- as much boiling water on them as will soak them well ; let 
these stand until the water is cool, then press it out and mash the 
bread with a fork until it is quite free from lumps. 

Measure this pulp, and to each quart add ^ teaspoonful of salt, 
1 of grated nutmeg, 3 ozs. moist sugar, and Jib. currants ; mix it 
all well together, and put it into a well-buttered pie dish ; smooth 
the surface with the back of a spoon, and place a small piece of 
butter on the top ; bake in a quick oven for Ij hours, and serve 
very hot. Boiling milk substituted for the boiling water would 
very much improve the pudding. Cost 6d. 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

2 lbs. bread, J lb. butter, Ij pints of milk, 4 eggs, sugar to taste, 
J lb. currants, flavouring of vanilla, grated lemon peel or nutmeg. 

Cut the bread ipto slices, and butter them and place in a pie dish, 
with currants between each layer and on the top, sweeten and 
flavour the milk, either by infusing a little lemon peel in it, or by 
adding a few drops of essence of vanilla ; well whisk the eggs 
and stir these to the milk, strain this over the bread and butter, and 
bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour or more. This pudding may be 
very much enriched by adding candied peel or more eggs than stated 
above. It should not be turned out, but sent to the table in the 
dish, and is better if made about 2 hours before being baked. 

Boiled Eice Pudding. 

I lb. rice, IJ pints milk, 2 ozs. butter, 4 eggs, J oz. salt, 4 large 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavouring to taste. Stew the rice veiy 
gently in the milk, and when it is tender pour it into a basin ; stir 
in the butter and let it stand to cool, then beat the eggs ; add these 
to the rice with the sugar, salt and any flavouring that may be 
approved, such as nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, grated lemon peel, 
essence of bitter almonds, or vanilla ; when all is well stirred, put 
the pudding into a buttered basin ; tie it down with a cloth ; 
plunge it into boiling water, and boil for U hours. 

(B 10957) D 2 



50 



Bread Pudding. 

Biead, currants or raisins, candied peel, sugar, chopped suet, 
flour, milk, baking powder, and salt. 

Soak the bread in warm water for 15 minutes ; squeeze the 
bread as dry as possible ; add the fruit, chopped suet, flour and 
salt ; mix well together ; dissolve the baking powder in the milk ; 
add this to the other ingredients, stirring well ; a little spice, ginger 
or grated nutmeg may be added to improve the flavour. 

Grease the inside of a dish ; place in the mixture, smoothing the 
surface with the back of a tablespoon ; steam or boil for 3 hours. 

Plain Pancakes. 

Mix in a basin with a spoon 4 ozs. of flour, 4 eggs, a little salt, 
some grated lemon peel, and a pint of milk or cream, and fry 
spoonfuls of this batter with a little butter in small frying pans 
over a clear fire. 

The pancakes must be fried on both sides, and when done 
rolled up with sugar inside, and dished up on a wai-m dish. 
French pancakes are made by introducing some preserve in the 
ordinary pancake. 

Pancakes (Sctgar). 

Put the pan on the fire with a tablespoonful of dripping, let it 
melt, pour oif all that is not wanted, then pour in 3 tablespoonfuls 
of the following batter : — 

Break 4 eggs in a basin, add 4 small tablespoonfuls of flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, a little salt, beat all well together, mixing 
by degrees half a pint of milk a little more or less depending on 
the size of the eggs and the quality of the flour ; it must form a 
rather thick batter, a little ginger, cinnamon, or any other flavour 
can be added if preferred, 2 eggs only may be used, but in this case 
use a little more flour and milk. When set and one side brownish, 
lay hold of the pan at the extremity of the handle, give it a sudden 
but slight jerk upward, and the cake will turn over on the other 
side, which when brown, dish up with sifted sugar over ; serve 
with lemon ; chopped apples may be added to the batter ; currants 
and sultanas can be mixed with it. 



Muffins. 

Ingredients.— Flonr, eggs, milk, butter, carbonate of soda, tartaric 
acid or baking powder, and salt. 

Place 2 lbs. of flour in a dish ; add a good pinch of carbonate of 
soda, and tartaric acid and a little salt, mix the whole well 
together ; melt about 2 ozs. of butter ; add it to the flour ; 
mix lightly ; add the eggs and milk, which have been 
previously well whisked together ; stir lightly untd it becomes 
a nice light paste ; take it out of the dish and roll it out 



51 



about three-quarters of an inch thick ; care being taken that the 
ingredients are handled as lightly as possible in mixing and rolling ; 
cut the muffins out a round or triangular shape ; place in a hot 
oven for a few minutes, care being taken that they are turned ; 
1 egg and ^ pint of milk will be found sufficient for the quantity. 
In using baking and egg powder, ^ teaspoonful of each will be 
sufficient. 

Tea Scones. 

Ingredients.— Flonr, eggs, milk, baking powder, salt and butter. 
Proceed as above, roll them out a little thinner, and bake them in 
a hot oven or on a griddle a nice brown colour, and serve hot. 
(This remark applies to muffins.) 

Tea Scones. 

Ingredients the same as above, substituting dripping for butter. 
Get some nice beef dripping, place the flour and baking powder in 
a dish, rub the dripping in the flour, and mix the whole well 
together, add the milk and eggs as before, mix lightly, and proceed 
as above. 

Soda Scones. 

3^ lbs. of flour, large teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, buttermilk, and a small teaspoonful of salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients well together, lightly add the butter 
and milk to make the dough, and divide into from 4 to 6 pieces. 
Sprinkle a little flour on the baking board, and roll out the dough 
with the rolling pin to about a ^ of an inch thick, cut in four, and 
bake on a hot griddle till of a pale brown colour, then turn and 
bake the other side. 

Wheaten Meal Scones. 

1 lb. wheatmeal, 1 lb. flour, teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, teaspoonful of dripping, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a little buttermilk. 

Mix the meal, flour, soda, cream of tartar, dripping, and salt 
well together, then add the buttermilk to make a light dough, 
divide, and roll out to the thickness of J of an inch, and bake on 
not too hot a griddle. 

EicE Scones. 

1 lb. rice, J lb. flour, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and ^ teaspoonful 
of salt. Put the rice and sugar into a saucepan with 1 quart of 
water, and let it come to the boil ; then set it to the side of the 
fire, and let it steam for 2 hours with the lid closed till all the water 
has been absorbed, and the rice becomes soft ; then sprinkle the 
flour on the baking board, and turn the rice on it, let it stand to 
cool, then divide into 6 parts and roll out very thin, cut each in 3, 
and bake on not too hot a griddle. 



52 



Beef Tea. 

To each pound of beef allow 1 quart of water. Pare away every 
particle of fat and cut the meat (which should be cut from the 
rump or ffravy piece) into very small squares or mince, and put 
this into a clean stewpan, add the water and set it on the fire to 
boil, remembering that as soon as the scum rises to the surface it 
should be removed with a spoon, and a very small quantity of cold 
water and salt should be poured in at the edge of the stewpan in 
order to facilitate the rising of the albumen in the form of scum. 
Unless due precaution be taken to effect the skimming satis- 
factorily the broth, instead of becoming clear and bright, becomes 
thick and turbid, and thus presents an unappetising appearance to 
the eye of the patient. 

When beef tea has boiled gently for about half an hour and 
become reduced to about half its original quantity, let it be strained 
through a clean sieve or napkin into a basin, and serve with dry 
toast and salt. The foregoing is intended for patients whose case 
may require comparatively . weak food; incases where food of a 
more stimulating character is needed in the form of extract of beef, 
it will be necessary to double the quantity of meat, and when it 
happens that beef tea is required in a hurry the meat should be 
chopped as finely as sausage meat, put into a stewpan with boiling 
water, stirred on the fire for ten minutes, and then sti-ained through 
a napkin for use. 

Mutton Broth. 

To each pound and a half of the scrag of mutton add 1 quart of 
water, a little salt, 2 ozs. of pearl barley. Chop the mutton into 
small pieces and add with the water in the stewpan ; set it to boil, 
skim it well, add a little salt and the barley, boil gently for 1 hour, 
strain off the broth through the sieve into a basin, and serve with 
dry toast ; a turnip and half a head of celery may be added where 
vegetables are not objected to. 

Chicken Broth. 

Draw the chicken, scald the legs, and remove the cuticle which 
covers them, cut up the chicken into members or joints, leaving the 
breast whole, put the pieces of chicken into a very clean stewpan, 
with a quart of water, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of washed rice, boil 
very gently for 1 hour, and when done serve the broth with or 
without the rice, according to taste. 

Rick Water. 

Wash 3 ozs. of rice in several waters and then put in a clean 
stewpan with a quart of water and 1 oz. of raisins, boil gently for 
^ an nour, strain through a coarse hair sieve into a jug. 



53 



Barley Water. 

2 ozs. of pearl barley boiled in a quart of water for 20 minutes 
and af terwai'ds allowed to stand until it becomes cold ; it must then 
be strained through a sieve into a jug, and a small piece of lemon 
peel added. 

Toast and Water. 

Boil a quart of water and pour it on a good-sized piece of crumb 
of bread which has been well toasted before a clear tire until it 
becomes nearly crisp and of a dark brown colour : allow this to 
steep for half an hour ; it is then ready. 

Sugar Water. 

To a pint of cold spring water add an ounce of lump sugar and a 
tablespoonful of orange flower water, mix. This is a very refreshing 
drink in summer, and is besides perfectly harmless. 

Arrowroot. 

To half a pint of boiled water add rather more than half an ounce 
of Bermuda arrowroot, previously mixed in a teacup with a wine- 
glassful of cold water. Stir this on the fire until it boils for a few 
minutes, pour it into a basin, flavour with a little sugar, and a small 
spoonful of brandy or a little red or white wine, or else with a little 
piece of orange or lemon peel, which may be boiled with the arrow- 
root. 

To PREPARE Sago or Tapioca. 

Boil 2 ozs. of either in a pint of water for 20 minutes, and flavour 
as directed for arrowroot ; sago may also be boiled in either mutton, 
chicken, or veal broth, or in beef tea. 

To MAKE Gruel. 

Take one teaspoonful of oatmeal and mix with a wineglassful of 
water, and having poured this into a stewpan containing a pint of 
boiling water, stir the gruel on the fire, to boil ten minutes ; pom' 
it into a basin, add salt and butter, or if more agreeable, rum, 
brandy, or wine and sugar. 

Oatmeal Porridge. 

Boil a quart of water in a saucepan, as soon as it boils sprinkle 
slowly in a cupful of coarse oatmeal, stirring gently until it is thick 
and smooth enough, pour it at once on to plates and serve with cold 
milk or treacle. 



64 



Onion Porridge. 

Take a large Spanish onion, peel and split it into quarters, and 
ut these into a small saucepan with a pint of water, a pat of 
utter and a little salt, boil gently for half an hour, add a pinch of 

pepper, and eat the porridge just before retiring for night. This is 

an excellent remedy for colds. 

To MAKE Stock for Jelly and Clarify it. 

Ingredients. — 2 calves' feet, 6 pints water. The stock for jellies 
should always be made the day before it is required for use, as the 
liquor has time to cool, and the fat can be so much more easily and 
effectually removed when thoroughly set. Procure 2 calves' feet, 
scald them to take off the hair, slit them in two, remove the fat 
from between the claws, and wash the feet well in warm water, put 
them into a stewpan, with the above proportion of cold water, bring 
it gradually to the boil, and remove every particle of scum as it 
rises ; when it is well skimmed boil very gently for 6 or 7 hours, or 
until the liquor is reduced rather more than one half ; then strain 
it through a sieve into a basin, and put it into a cool place to set ; as 
the liquor is strained, measure it to ascertain the proportion for the 
jelly, allowing for the sediment and fat at the top. To clarify it, 
carefully remove all the fat from the top, pour over a little warm 
water to wash away any that may remain, and wipe the jelly with a 
clean cloth ; remove the jelly from the sediment, put it into a 
saucepan, and, supposing the quantity to be a quart, add to it 6 02s. 
of loaf sugar, the shells and well- whisked whites of 5 eggs, and 
stir these ingredients together cold ; set the stewpan on the fire, but 
do not stir the jelly after it becomes warm ; let it boil about 
1 0 minutes after it rises to a head, then throw in a teacupf ul of cold 
water, let it boil for five minutes longer, then take the saucepan off, 
cover it closely, and let it remain \ an hour near the fire ; dip the 
jelly bag into hot water, wring it out quite dry, and fasten it on to a 
stand or the back of a chair, which must be placed near the fire to 
prevent the jelly setting before it has run through the bag ; 
place a basin underneath to receive the jelly ; then pour it 
into the bag, and should it not be clear the first time, run 
it through the bag again. This stock is the foundation of all 
really good jellies, which may be varied in innumerable ways by 
colouring and flavouring with liquors, and by moulding it with 
fresh and preserved fruits. To ensure the jelly being firm when 
turned out, h oz. isinglass, clarified, may be added to the above 
proportion of stock. Substitutes for calves' feet are now used 
plentifully in making jellies, which lessen the expense and trouble 
in preparing this favourite dish, isinglass and gelatine being two of 
the principal materials, but although they may look as nicely as 
jellies made from good stock, they are never so delicate, having 
very often an unpleasant flavour, somewhat resembling glue, 
particularly when made with gelatine. 



< 



55 



CowHEEL Stock for Jellies. 

Procure 2 heels that have only been scalded and not boiled, split 
them in two, and remove the fat from between the claws ; wash 
them well in warm water, and put them into a saucepan with 3 quarts 
of cold water, bring it gradually to the boil, remove all scum as it 
rises, and simmer the heels gently for 7 or 8 hours, or until the 
liquor is reduced one-half, then strain it into a basin, measuring the 
quantity, and put it into a cool place ; clarify it as directed for calves' 
feet, using with the other ingredients about ^ oz. isinglass to each 
quart. This stock should be made the day before it is required for 
use. Two dozen shank bones of mutton boiled for 6 or 7 hours 
yield a quart of strong, firm stock. They should be put on in 
2 quarts of water, which should be reduced one-half. This should 
also be made the day before it is required. 

Bread Making. 

Bread may be broadly divided into two classes : — 

(a) Fermented, or leavened bread, in which the carbonic acid gas 
necessary to distend the dough and cause the loaf to rise is produced 
by some form of yeast. 

(6) TJnfermented bread, in which the requisite gas is either 
produced by chemicals (baking powder), or forced into the dough 
by a mechanical process. 

Fermented bread is usually made in the army, though baking 
powder may be resorted to on active service', or on extreme 
emergency. 

Fermented bread is manufactured from wheat flour, water, salt, 
and some form of yeast. 

It is necessary to allude to these ingredients briefly before 
describing the process of bread making. 

Flour. 

The conditions of contract enact that flour shall be the produce 
of good, sound, sweet and dry wheat, without any adulteration 
whatever, and of such a grade that a sack of 280 lbs. will produce 
at least 180 2-lb. loaves of bread of the "Best Household" quality. 
This last clause refers to what is known as the "gain per cent.," by 
which IS meant the difference in weight between 100 lbs. flour and 
the weight of bread produced from that amount of flour. Good 
flour absorbs half its own weight of water, but a large proportion of 
this extra moisture is lost by evaporation during baking; and 
experience has shown that a nett gain should remain of not less 
than 30 per cent., as laid down in the conditions of contract. 

Water. 

Soft water is best, and it is essential that it should be clean and 
pure. 



66 



Salt. 

The functions of salt are to bind the dough, to prevent injurious 
fermentation, and to impart a flavour to the loaf. It should be 
white, crystalline, dry, and soluble in water. The usual proportion 
is 3i lbs. to every sack of flour (280 lbs.). 

Yeast. 

Yeast is a plant of the fungus tribe, which in congenial soil grows 
very rapidly, and gives off large quantities of carbonic acid gas. 

This gas is employed in raising the bread, and making it light 
and digestible. 

" Parisian Yeast " is the yeast generally used in the Service in the 
field, and is made by the baker himself on the spot as follows : — 

To make 1 gallon, boil 1 gallon of water, put into it 1 oz. hops, 
and allow them to simmer 40 minutes. Take ^ lb. flour, mix it 
with a little cold water, and scald it with sufficient of the hop 
liquor to make a thick paste. Then strain the remainder of the 
hop liquor on to the paste, thoroughly mix, and allow the mixture 
to cool down to 90°. Then " stock," i.e., introduce the yeast plant, 
using any substance containing that plant in large quantities, such 
as 1 pint of old " Parisian " yeast, ^ oz. D.C.L. yeast, 1 pint of beer 
or stout, or ^ lb. sugar. The yeast should be allowed to rise and fall 
once before being used. 5 pints are required to each sack of flour 
(280 lbs.). 

Sour Boiigh Yeast is also manufactured by the baker, and may 
be used on emergency when "Parisian" or other yeast is not 
available. It is made as follows : — 

Mix about 4 lbs. of flour with water into a dough, and allow the 
mass to ferment for about 12 hours in a warm atmosphere. 
Directly the mixture shows the slightest signs of movement, add 
2^ gallons of water with 1 oz. salt dissolved in it. This preparation 
is quick-working, but unreliable and difficult to handle. 6 lbs. of 
dough in 2^ gallons of water are required to each sack of flour. 

The various operations which take place in turning the above 
ingredients into bread are as follows : — 

1. Setting the sponge. 

2. Making the dough. 

3. Scaling and moulding. 

4. Baking. 

It is assumed throughout that two sacks of flour (560 lbs.) are 
being converted into bread, this being the most convenient 
quantity for bakers to handle. 

Setting the sponge. 

The sponge is a preliminary mixture of part of the flour with the 
total amount of yeast necessary, and a due proportion of water, and 
its object is to give the yeast a fair chance to get firmly established. 

Sponges are described as "J sponge," "i sponge,' and | 
sponge," the fraction indicating the proportion of the total amount 



p 

of flour to be used in setting the sponge. The class of sponge to be 
used varies according to conditions of climate and temperature, 
i.e., in a frost the j sponge might be used, whereas in a very hot 
climate the f sponge would be employed. In this country the 
\ sponge is the one most commonly worked with. 

Assuming that a h sponge is used with Parisian Yeast, the com- 
ponent parts of it, i.e., 280 lbs. flour, 10 pints of yeast and 
12| gallons of warm water, are thoroughly mixed together in a 
ti'ough, and allowed to rise and fall twice. This takes about 
■ 12 hours, when the mixture is ready for the next process, which is : 

Making the Dough. 

The sponge is now broken up, and the remaining ingredients, i.e., 
280 lbs. flour, 7 lbs. salt, and 14 gallons of water are added, and the 
whole mass thoroughly kneaded. It is then left to work for about 
3 hours. 

Scaling and Moulding. 

The dough is now turned out of the trough, cut into lumps, and 
the lumps " scaled " according to the weight of the loaves required. 
As considerable weight is lost by evaporation during baking, and 
up to the time of issue, a 2 lb. loaf must be scaled at 2 lbs. ozs., 
and a 2^ lb. loaf at 2 lbs. 13 ozs. 

The scaled lumps are then moulded or shaped into the form of a 
loaf, left in a warm place for about J hour, and are then ready for 
the oven. 

Baking. 

^ The moulded lumps of dough are then placed into the oven. 
|| The proper heat for an oven is from 400° to 500°, according to 
the class of oven used, and the time taken in baking is as follows : — 

In Tins or In Batch 

separate Loaves. Bread. 

I 2| lb. loaf 50min. tolhr. ... U hrs. 

2 lb. „ , 40 „ to 1 hr. ... l| hrs. 
When baked, bread should be taken at once into the bread store 
to cool. The store should be dry, cool, and well ventilated, and 
not more than two layers of loaves of new bread should be placed 
on one rack. 

Bread made with Baking Powder. 

The advantage of using baking powder is the saving of time 
effected in the production of bread, a feature which may sometimes 
render this process useful on sei'vice when bread has to be 
produced at short notice. The method of using baking powder is 
as follows : — 

Spread the flour evenly at the bottom of the trough, sift the 
baking powder over the flour, taking care to break up any small 
lumps, which, if left, would cause a yellow stain in the bread. The 
dry powder and flour should then be thoroughly mixed. 



58 



Dissolve salt, at the rate of 2| lbs. per sack of flour only, as a 
considerable quantity of saline matter is contained in all baking 
powders, in the softest and coldest water obtainable ; water which 
has been boiled and allowed to get cool is the best for the purpose. 

Mix the flour, baking powder, and water thoroughly with a 
I'otary motion, constantly stirr ing up from the bottom. The dough 
being properly mixed should be scaled, moulded, and placed in a 
quick oven. To make a good loaf with baking powder, the bread 
should be in the oven within 30 minutes of adding the water to the 
flour. No more salt than the above-mentioned proportion .should 
be used, or the bread becomes heavy, dark, and briny. If the 
dough is allowed to lie about, the effervescence is finished before it 
is put in the oven. Full directions as to the method of using baking 
powders, and the proportion required, are given on the tins. 

Jxidging Bread. 

The current conditions of contract, a copy of which should be 
hung up in every bread store, enact that the bread supplied shall 
be sweet, well made, properly baked, and of the description or quality 
known as " best household," made from flour clean and free from 
grit, the produce of good, sound, sweet, and dry wheat ; that it 
shall be in all respects as good in quality as the best plain or fine (as 
distinguished from fancy) bread usually sold by the trade as " Best 
Household Bread," with which it shall frequently be compared. 

The bread must be delivered not earlier than 24 hours, nor later 
than 48 hours after baking, and the loaves must weigh 2 lbs. at tlie 
time of issue. 

It is subject to inspection and approval by an Officer or Officei-s 
acting on behalf of the G.O.C., and in case of rejection the con- 
tractor has the right of appeal to the Officer Commanding at the 
station, and finally to the General Officer Commanding. 

The main characteristics of a good loaf, fulfilling the conditions 
enumerated above, are as follows : — 

The crust should be a rich yellowish-brown, well baked but not 
burnt, as thin as possible, and distributed all round the loaf. The 
crumb should be cream-white in colom', light, flaky, elastic, and 
full of small, evenly distributed cavities. 

In tasting a loaf, the crumb should always be eaten. 

Several loaves should be selected from different parts of a con- 
signment of bread, and each weighed singly. 

When required, the contractor must deliver bread in accordance 
with the specification, to the extent of half a pound per diem for 
each soldier included in the ration return for use in the Regimental 
Eecreation Rooms, and for other similar purposes. The right is 
also reserved to issue Biscuit from Government Stores to the 
extent of one issue per week. 



69 



Varieties of Bread. 

In England, as a rule, bread is exclusively made of wheat flour. 
Abroad, however, the flour of other cereal grains is also used. Wheat 
flour is by far the most suitable for bread baking, being the most 
nutritious, and containing a larger proportion of gluten than other 
flour. 

Indian corn bread, although less nutritious than that made from 
wheat, is more fattening, in consequence of the greater quantity of 
oil it contains. It does not bake in the light spongy loaves as 
wheaten flour, and its flavour is not agreeable. It is, however, 
excellent in the form of cakes. 

Rye bread is little used in England, but common on the Continent. 
It is wholesome but dark coloured, sometimes black and less spongy 
than bread made from wheat flour. It possesses the quality of 
retaining its freshness for a long time. 

Oat bread. Owing to a peculiar quality of the gluten which the 
oat contains, the meal of this grain does not admit of being baked 
into a light spongy bread. 

Rice bread. Rice flour is scarcely ever made into bread, although 
it is not infrequently mixed with wheat flour intended for bread, 
and sold under the name of "corn flour." It is cheaper than 
wheat flour, and is used for dusting the boards, troughs, and dough. 



FIELD INSTRUCTION. 



To cook rapidly and well is an art which can be easily acquired, 
and which every soldier should learn. Officers commanding are 
responsible that there are a certain number of men (at least 8 or 10) 
in each troop or company who have been instructed in the cutting 
up of meat, making field kitchens, and cooking. The serjeant-cook 
is specially trained for the purpose of instructing men in this part of 
their duty. It is a matter of paramount necessity that soldiers' food 
should be carefully looked after, and this should be attended to by 
the officers themselves. 

Service kettles are as follows : — 



Name. 


Weight. 


Contents. 


Surface 
Diameter. 


Depth outside 
measure. 


Number of men will 
Cook for. 


With 
vegetables. 


Without! 




Lbs. 


Galls. 


• In. In. 


In. 






Oval, largo 


8 


3 


13i by 9 


11 


8 


15 


,, small 


^ 


1| 


12| by 8^ 


8 


5 


8 



60 



On arrival in camp the cooking party, consisting of the serjeant- 
cook, assistant-cook, two men per troop or company, will proceed to 
make the kitchen. If the encampment be only for one night, one 
trench per company should be dug 6 feet long, 9 inches wide, and 
18 inches deep at the mouth, and continued for 18 inches up the 
trench, then sloping upwards to 4 inches at the back with a splay 
mouth pointing towards the wind 2 feet 6 inches by 3 feet 8 inches 
deep, and a rough chimney 2 feet high at the opposite end, and 
formed with the sods cut off the top of the trench. It will be 
advantageous if these trenches be cut on a gentle slope. 

All brushwood and long grass should be carefully cut for a circle 
of 20 feet round the kitchen, and may be used in lighting the fire. 
On damp or marshy sites a wall trench will be found to answer 
best, constructed as follows : — 

Cut some sods of turf about 18 inches long and 9 inches wide 
and lay them in two parallel lines 6 feet long, with an interval 
between them of 2 feet 6 inches. Build these walls 2 feet high for 
the large kettles, and 18 inches for the small ones. Lay the wood 
all over the bottom between the walls. Light the fire. This trench 
will hold 12 large or 20 small ones. It should be built sideways 
to the wind to prevent the flame and heat being carried through 
by the draught. If there be no time to dig a trench, or the ground 
be hard or sandy, the kettles may be placed in rows 10 inches 
apart and the fires lighted between them, the heat being thus 
applied to the sides as well as the bottom. If necessary, a row of 
kettles can be placed across the others over the fire. By this 
method, however, the cooking takes a little longer and more fuel, 
but the time required to construct the kitchen is saved. Troops 
should, in all circumstances, have their dinners an hour and a half 
after the rations are issued. 

Another way is to have a hole prepared by forming a mound 
with stones, clay, or turf, and making a hollow in the centre the 
size of the kettle, in such a way as to allow only air enough to 
support combustion, and prevent the escape of the heat. 

The Serjeant- cook will apportion the meat, potatoes, &c., to the 
various messes, which the cooks will cut up and place in the kettles. 

Messes should be by kettles — that is, the number of men com- 
posing a mess should depend on the kettle used. Lighting the fires 
should be performed by a man used to the work. Small pieces of 
wood about the size of lucifer matches should be first ignited and 
the fire gradually fed with larger ones. By this time the water 
party should have brought the requisite water in the camp kettles, 
and the moment the fire is well lighted the kettles should be laid on 
the trench and brought to a boil, after which allowed to simmer 
gently. The time from the opening of the ground until the water 
boils should not exceed 35 minutes ; the water in which the 
potatoes are boiled should not be thrown away, as it is required for 
washing-up. When the cooking is done for the day, kettles should 
be filled overnight with clean water and placed on the trenches and 
covered with turf, so that in the event of rain during the night the 



« 



61 



trenches and wood may be kept dry. In case the corps move away 
the cooks should light the fire 30 minutes before reveill6, so that 
the water is boiling by the time it is sounding. The camp kettles 
should be delivered to the quartermaster by the assistant-cooks of 
each company. Each cook to fill up the trench he dug. All otFal 
and refuse that is not sold to be buried. All wood not used to be 
left in a heap on the ground. The serjeant-cook on the line of march 
should always arrange to have a portion of dry wood carried from 
one camp to another for kindling purposes. Room can easily be 
found in the wagons to carry a small bundle of sticks ; if not, each 
cook should carry enough small dry wood to light his own fire. 
This will be found a great assistance in wet weather. 

If troops remain in camp more than a day or two, it is advisable 
to build a regular field kitchen. 

The Aldershot "Gridiron" Kitchen. 



rrr- 




StcV'A.B 



Scale. 20io1. 



I I I if r M rf 



10 

I 



It 
_L_ 



Chimney 6 feet high, 3 feet square at bottom, sloping to 2 feet at top. 
The trenches are 12 feet long, 9 inches wide, 18 inches deep at mouth, and 
continuing so for 18 inches in the trench, then sloping to 6 inches on 
entering the flue. 

The gridiron kitchen (Aldershot pattern) consists of 9 trenches 
12 feet long, 9 inches wide, 18 inches deep at the mouth, this depth 
is ca,rried for 18 inches inwards, and forms the fii^e-place, gradually 
diminishing to 6 inches where it enters the flue, they are connected 



62 



by splay mouths 2 feet by 2 feet, and 18 inches deep to the trans- 
verse trench, which is 36 feet long, 2 feet wide, and 21 inches deep. 
The centre trench is connected with the chimney (6 feet high, 

3 feet square at the bottom, sloping gradually up to 2 feet square 
at the top) by a flue 12 feet long; 9 inches wide, and 6 inches deep, 
covered with the sods removed from the trenches. 

To inark out the kitchen, drive a picket to mark the centre of 
the chimney, a second one 12 feet below, which will mark the top 
centre of the trench, the third one 12 feet below marking the 
bottom centre of the trench, the fourth one 2 feet below marks the 
centre of the splay mouth, and the fifth 2 feet below the outer 
edge of the transverse trench, for a single trench this would be 

4 feet long. For each extra trench added a picket would be driven 
in 4 feet from each of the latter 4 pickets used in forming the 
centre or main trench, and parallel to it, leaving after the excava- 
tions 3 feet 3 inches for the cooks to work in, the top of each trench 
being attached to the chimney by a covered flue as shown in diagram. 

Where it is possible to build the kitchen on a slope, flues are not 
required, the trench should be lengthened 1 foot, and a chimney 
about 2 feet high will be found sufficient to provide the draught and 
carry away the smoke. 

Construction. — One man excavates each trench, commencing from 
the ends nearest the chimney, another man cuts out the bottom of 
the chimney, and builds it up with the sods cut in construction of 
the trenches. The third man excavates the draught or flue, which 
is 12 feet long, 9 inches wide, and 6 inches deep ; and as soon as the 
trenches are dug, he cuts a flue from the head of each into the main 
flue, taking care that the openings of the outer tunnels do not face 
one another (which would interfere with the proper working of the 
draught), then covers the flue with turf or sods from the top of the 
trenches to the chimney. 

The other two men excavate the transverse trench, and provide 
■ turf for the consti'uction of the chimney. 

The men on the completion of the trenches are employed respec- 
tively in providing and mixing clay, carrying water, and covering 
the trenches for the reception of the kettles. 

Great care must be taken in the construction of the chimney ; all 
holes and interstices must be plastei'ed with clay. 

The insides of the trenches may be plastered with clay if it be 
plentiful. If this is done the dimensions should be slightly increased. 
If the clay is scai'ce the trenches should be cut smooth. Each 
trench will accommodate about 11 oval or 12 small oval kettles, the 
holes of which should be modelled in clay, using the base of a kettle 
as a mould. The inteivals across the trench should be covered by 
sods placed grass side downwards, or stones, hoop-iron, sticks 
plastered with cla}', and all interstices closed with clay or sods. 
This kitchen will last a fortnight even if not plastered with clay. 
Time required to construct 8 hours, working party one non-com- 
missioned officer and twelve men, tools required : — 




M A I i; HAH AM L ■ ^ 1 1 1 !• " I ON no M J » 



63 



Axes, pick 
Hooks, bill 
Kettles, camp ... 
Pickets, bundle of 
Spades ... 



3 
2 
9 
1 
11 



It will be seen that this kitchen admits of easy extension by the 
addition of more trenches. 

Advantages. — Moz-e room is provided between the trenches for 
the cooks to work in, less time is required to build. 18 feet less 
ground is required to provide this transverse trench, the flues are 
easy to repaii-. 

CooKiNe IN Mess Tins. 

No trench should be dug ; the mess-tins should be placed on the 
ground as shown on plan on opposite page, with the opening facing- 
the direction of the wind. 

Eight is a convenient number of tins to form a " kitchen," but 
any number from 3 to 10 or 11 can be utilised. 

The handles of the mess-tins should be kept outside. 

The tins should be well greased on the outside before being placed 
on the fire ; if this is done and they are cleaned soon after being- 
used they will suffer no damage. The tins when they are hot can 
be cleaned in a few minutes with turf, soil, or rag. 

Only a small quantity of wood is required for each " kitchen," a 
good draught being the object to be kept in view. It is desirable 
that the fuel used should, whenever possible, be that obtainable in 
the vicinity of the " kitchens." 

Each man should be instructed to cook his own dinner, but when 
once the " kitchen " is formed and the fuel collected one man only 
should remain with each fire. 

The position of the tins in each " kitchen " will require to be 
changed from time to time, as some will be cooked sooner than others- 
It will be the duty of the man in charge to regulate this. 

The dinners will be cooked from 1 hour to IJ hours.* 

The following dinners are suitable for this method of cooking :— 

Plain Stew Irish Stew, Curried Stew, Sea Pies, and Meat 
Puddings. 

Por instruction it is convenient to place the "kitchens" of 
companies m rows at any convenient distance apart ; but if space 
IS limited, It IS estimated that dinners of a battalion of 500 men can 
be arranged m a space of 10 yards by 16 yards, working by double 
companies, and allowing an interval of 2 feet between the "kitchens" 
of a company and 2 yards between the lines of each double company, 
or m a line of 32 yards by 4 yards, working by half battalions with 
the same intervals. When possible, the latter is the more suitable, as 
the men attending the fires are less inconvenienced by the smoke 
from the other " kitchens." 

' ■^^"in^r^t'' ^'^^"^ with water before quitting barracks. 



64 



Preserved Meat Tins. 

Preserved meat tins are a good substitute for either a kettle or 
canteen, and can be used for a variety of purposes. In opening 
them, care should be taken that the lid is not entirely removed, 
leaving about 1 inch uncut, it will then act as a lid. Another one 
should be cut open and emptied and then placed on the cinders a 
few minutes to melt the solder, then overlap it about 1 inch, which 
will decrease the circumference sufficiently for the first one to rest 
upon, then cut away on each side of the portion of the tin that was 
soldered a piece about 1 inch wide and 1^ inches deep, and overlap 
the two pieces in the form of a V ; this will bind them together 
and form the flue. In the front at the lower part, a piece abo u 

2 inches by 2 inches should be cut away to form an opening to feed 
the fire, which should consist of sprigs, rushes, turf, fir cones, or any 
small wood that may be procured. It will be found that by simply 
using these tins as described, it is possible to prepare tea, cofTee, 
puddings, pies, stews, rice, &c., in a manner equal to that produced 
by the kettle. The tins may also be used for preparing chup- 
patties, &c. 

In a standing camp tubs are usually provided for the refuse, and 
the same conditions should attach to them as in barracks. 

The rubbish pit is constiucted by the sanitary squad of the unit, 
and is under the immediate care of the non-commissioned ofl&cer i/c 
of the squad. 

The serjeant-cook should take a personal interest in the mainten- 
ance and care of the rubbish pit, and issue such orders to his men 
that only dry rubbish, food refuse and other dry material be placed in 
this pit in such manner as to keep the surroundings of the cooking 
place neat and tidy. Liquid refuse such as greasy water should not 
be placed in this rubbish pit, but thrown either into a special water- 
tight receptacle, if available, or into a suUage pit, specially dug for 
the purpose by the sanitary squad men. 

Aldershot. Oven. 
The Aldershot oven (Mark II) consists of : — 
2 sections. 
2 ends. 
1 bottom. 
4 bars. 
9 tins. 
1 peel. 

Total weight 374 lbs. (about 3i cwt.). 
The bottom can usually be dispensed with, in which case the 
above weight is reduced by 66 lbs. _ 

The length of the 2 sections when up is 5 feet 1 inch ; width, 

3 feet 6 inches. 

Capacity.— EB^ch oven will bake 54 2 lb. or 2^ lb. loaves (108 
rations) in each batch, or if used for cooking, will cook dmners for 
about 220 men. 



65 



Time fob Heating, Baking, Cooking, &c. 

1st heating 1st day 4 hours. 

1st heating 2ncl day 2 hours. 

2nd and subsequent heating 1^ hours. 

Baking 1 to Ij hours. 

Cooking Up to 2^ hours. 

. Fuel Required for each Oven. 

1st heating 1st day ... 300 lbs. wood. 

1st heating 2nd day 150 lbs. wood. 

2nd and subsequent heating 75 lbs. (baking). 

2nd and subsequent heating Up to 150 lbs. (cooking). 

A good rough rule for baking bread is to allow 1 lb. of wood for 
•each pound of bread required. 

Erecting the Oven. 

Select a gentle slope on clay soil if possible, and avoiding marshy 
or sandy ground, the mouth of' the oven to face the prevailing wind, 
as the oven heats more quickly and the smoke is blown away from 
the bakers or cooks. 

The site should be cleared and smoothed, and sods should be cut 
to build up the back, front and sides of the oven. The bars are 
then placed over the site already prepared, the back one overlapping 
the front, the back of the oven placed in position, the plate forming 
the bottom of the oven is then placed against the front portion and 
fii'mly fixed, the sods are then built round the front, back and sides, 
a trench is next cut for the cook to work in, which is 18 inches 
deep, 2 feet wide and 6 feet long, leaving a space of 12 inches 
between it and the oven. The clay or soil from the trench being 
mixed with water and grass, rushes, &c., to assist in binding, it is 
then thrown on the oven and well beaten down. The depth of 
clay or earth should be at least six inches. The roof should 
slope backwards slightly, to carry oif the rain. 

Directions for Working. 

1. Every night, wood should be laid in the oven ready for 
lighting in the morning. It is thus kept dry. 

2. When the oven is heated, the embers are drawn out with 
a rake, and a small quantity of ashes left and raked even with 
the floor. 

3. The tins containing the dough should not be put in till 
20 minutes or half an hour after the. fire is drawn, as otherwise 
the top heat is so fierce that it would burn the upper part of 
the bread. 

When meat is to be cooked, it may be put in immediately the 
fire is drawn. 

(b 10957) E 2 ' 



66 

4. Immediately the oven is filled, the door should be put up 
and wedged tightly with a piece of wood, the end of which 
should rest on the outer edge of the trench in front. 

The crevices round the end should then be filled in with wet 
clay to prevent any steam escaping. If this is properly performed 
the steam providing the necessary moisture is retained, and the 
bread or dinners will not be burnt. 

5. When the top of the oven sinks to less than 14 inches 
from the bottom, which will happen sooner or later owing to the 
metal being softened by the heat, the oven should be taken to 
pieces and beaten into shape with mauls. 

Ground ovens, on the principle of the Aldershot oven, may be 
improvised of almost any material, the most common being 
corrugated iron, barrels or half barrels, biscuit tins beaten out 
into the shape of an arch and supported by half tyres of wheels, 
&c. In each case the shape, method of working, &c., of the 
Aldershot oven should be taken as a pattern. 

Ovens can be easily improvised, the main object being to obtein 
a covered-in space which will bear and retain the heat of a fire 
lighted inside. In a clay soil they can be dug out. 

When using a field kitchen, a simple plan is to dig the transverse 
trench about 12 inches deeper in the part selected for the oven, 
then take the handle from the pick and drive it mto the ground, 
measuring the distance from the edge of the trench, accordmg to 
the length of the oven required, then dig out the soil or clay, 
leaving a portion for the roof about 8 inches deep, but this depends 
upon the ground. When the oven is sufficiently large, care bemg 
taken that it is not more than 12 inches high, the pick handle 
should be drawn out ; the hole will then act as a flue, ihe fire 
should be lighted, and the oven allowed to become thoroughly 
hot before the dishes are placed in. A piece of turf large 
enough to cover the front of the oven should have been cut, which 
will act as the door, pugging it round as with the Aldershot oven 

Beer or biscuit barrels make excellent ovens, one end is knocked 
out, the ground slightly sloped, so that it may rest firmly, the sides, 
back, and top being covered with clay, well wedged downwards 
to become quite hard ; the fire is then lit and allowed to burn until 
the whole of the barrel is consumed ; the hoops will then support the 
clay, and the oven may be safely used^ Where the clay is good a 
sma 1 oven may be built by it alone. Build two walls the required 
distance apart, about 6 inches high, with clay that has been well 
beaten and mixed, the back being jomed to the walls ; then ^vith 
one hand on either side, gradually build the walls a Jew inches 
higher, the tops slightly sloping towards each other, leaving an 
interval in the form of a V in the centre, then mould a piece of the 
cUy large enough to fill the space, and place it m, care being taken 
to weU ioin the edges with the walls both mside and out ; a small 
fire shoild then be lit and allowed to burn slowly mitil he clay is 
d^y, it will then become baked and quite firm, and may be used as 
other ovens. 



I 



67 



Tin biscuit boxes are also a good substitute for an oven. Melt 
one side of the solder, and form it into an oval shape, lay it on the 
crround, and cover with a few inches of clay or soil sufficient to 
retain the heat ; light the fire, and proceed as with others. 

Small joints of meat may be baked in the service camp kettle. 
When using a pugged trench a small amount of fat should be 
placed in the bottom, then a few clean pebbles large enough to 
cover the fat, the joint placed on the pebbles, and the lid put on. 
It requires a little longer to cook than the ordinary oven, and it is 
hardly possible to perceive any difference in the taste. Ant heaps 
are extensively used as ovens, the insides being scooped out and 
the fire lighted as in an ordinary oven. 

Kitchen. 

The kitchen should at all times be kept as clean as possible. 

On receipt of the wood, it should be built up in one or two stacks, 
according to the amount received, on either side of the chimney. 
This will allow the front of the kitchen to be kept clear for the cooks 
to dish up, &c. After each meal the cook should understand that 
his first care is the trench. It must be kept clean, and nothing in 
the shape of wood, knives, &c., be allowed to remain upon it. In the 
evening the cook will, if necessary, repair his trench with clay or 
turf. He should then lay his fires as previously mentioned, and 
replace the kettles, the whole of the cooks assisting in the general 
clearing up. The intervals between the trenches should be swept 
downwards into the transverse trench, the front portion of the latter 
being swept upwards, it and the trench swept from end to end. No 
fuel should be wasted, wood only partly consumed, having been 
previously used, to lay the fires. The work must not be considered 
finished until everything is left in readiness for the morning. 

Wood. 

The principal fuel used in the field is wood. It will at times be 
found necessary to use peat or turf, which has been before alluded to, 
cow or horse dung ; this should be mixed well with any rubbish, 
grass, leaves, &c., and formed into convenient pieces for use in the 
trenches, and placed in the sun to dry. This is the principal fuel of 
the poorer classes in warm climates. On the River Nile the banks 
may be seen lined with this description of fuel drying in the sun. Fir 
cones and dried furze bushes are excellent for kindling purposes. In 
using wood it is necessary to cut it into short pieces, and split it 
lengthways, or otherwise it would become charred and retain its heat. 
The daily allowance of wood at home is 3 lbs., on active service 2 lbs. 



68 



KECIPES FOR FIELD COOKING. 



PRESERVED MEAT. 
(Ingredients for 22 Men.) 

Meat Pie. 

16^ lbs. meat, 5 lbs. flour, 1^ lbs. suet, 1 lb. onions, 2 ozs. salt, 
^ oz. pepper. 

Make the paste ; cut up and stew the onions with jelly from 
the meat added ; cut the meat into dice and place it in a 
baking dish ; add the cooked onions ; season with pepper and salt ; 
cover with a light crust, and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. 

Stew. 

16i lbs. meat, 2 lbs. of carrots or other vegetables, 1 lb. onions, 
2 ozs. salt, ^ oz. pepper. 

Cut up the vegetables and onions, which place in the boiler 
with sufficient water to cover them ; add some jelly from the meat ; 
well season with pepper and salt, and stew gently, keeping the lid of 
the boiler closely shut until the vegetables are tender, then add the 
meat ; let the whole simmer for 10 minutes and serve. 

^ Curried STEW.g" " /" 

Ingredients the same as for stew, with 1 oz. of curry powder and 
1 lb. of flour added. Prepare as for stew ; mix the curry and flour with 
cold water into a smooth batter, and add it to fihe stewed vegetables 
with the meat ; let the whole simmer for 10 minutes and serve. 

Sea Pie. 

Ingredients the same as for stew, with 5 lbs. of flour and 1^ lbs. 
of suet or dripping added. J^""". -■' 

Make the paste ; prepare and cook the vegetables and onions, as 
for stew ; when the vegetables are tender add the meat ; coyer the 
whole over with a light paste, and boil or steam for 20 minutes. A 
thickening of flour added is an improvement. 

Toad-in-the-Hole. 

16^ lbs. meat, 5 lbs. flour, 1 lb. suet or dripping, 2 ozs. salt, ^ oz. of 
pepper, 1 lb. onions, 6 eggs or equivalent in egg powder or 1 pint ale. 
Cut up and cook the onions ; prepare the batter with eggs and milk 
if possible, if not with beer and water ; season it with half the pepper 
and salt ; grease the inside of a baking dish ; pour into it half the 
batter, and place it in the oven ; when the batter sets, place on tne 
meat, cut up, and the cooked onions ; cover with the remainder of 
the batter, and bake from 15 to 20 minutes in a quick oven. 



69 



Potato Pie. 

16^ lbs. meat, 20 lbs. potatoes, 1 lb. onions, 3 ozs. salt, ^ oz. of pepper. 

Cut up and stew the onions with jelly from the meat added ; boil or 
steam the potatoes ; when cooked mash them. Line the sides of 
the dish with one-third of the mashed potatoes ; place the meat and 
cooked onions in the centre ; season with pepper and salt ; cover over 
the remainder of the mashed potatoes, and bake till the potato cover 
is brown. As the mashed potatoes absorb the moisture of the meat 
and render it dry, about 2 pints of gravy prepared from the liquor 
in which the onions were cooked, should be poured into the pie. 
before serving. 

Hunter's Pie. 

This pie is prepared in a similar manner and with the same in- 
gredients as potato pie, but the top is left uncovered. Both these 
pies should be baked in a quick oven. winnnSii^ 

The quantities of the several ingredients in the following recipes 
are not given, but they should be in the same proportion as the 
foregoing, which are for messes of 22 men each. 

Pea Soup with Salt Pork or Beef. 

Meat, mixed vegetables, split peas, flour or broken biscuits 
pepper, water. 

Peel, clean, and cut up the vegetables ; place the water in the 
camp kettle, add the vegetables and peas, and boil gently until the 
peas are soft. Then put into the soup about two lbs. of meat, whick 
should have been previously well washed in cold water, and simmer 
gently till it is cooked, then take it out and cover it up to ksep 
warm. 

Mix some flour into a smooth batter with cold water, and add it to 
the soup, keeping it well stirred to prevent it burning ; boil for 
30 minutes, and serve. If flour is not to be had, use, instead, 
powdered biscuits, previously soaked in cold water. 

The remainder of the meat should be soaked and well washed in 
cold water, then put in the camp kettle with sufficient water to 
cover it, and allowed to boil for 30 minutes ; the water in which it 
was boiled should now be thrown away, the camp kettle refilled 
with fresh cold water, and the meat boiled till done. 

Irish Stew, with Salt Beef. 

Meat, potatoes, onions, and pepper. Wash and clean the meat in 
cold water, separate it from the bone, and cut it into small pieces of 
about 2 ozs. each, and well wash it again in cold water : peel and 
clean the potatoes, peel and slice the onions, place the meat, 
potatoes, and onions in the camp kettle, add a little pepper and 
suflicient cold water to cover the whole ; put the lid on the kettle 
and cook gently over a slow fire, frequently skimming the fat ofi" 
the top. The bones of the meat should not be added to the stew, as 
they are usually too salt. 



70 



Salt Pork and Biscuit. 

Meat, biscuit, onions, parsley, pepper, and water. 

(rt) Soak the biscuits in cold water for 1 hour, wash clean, and 
boil the pork ; drain the water off the biscuits, and cut up the pork 
into thin slices ; peel and slice the onions, wash and chop up the 
parsley, pour a little water into the camp kettle, place a layer of the 
slices of pork at the bottom of the kettle, with some onions, parsley, 
and pepper, then a layer of the soaked biscuits on top, then a layer 
of pork, and so on alternately until the kettle is nearly full. Cover 
the whole with water, and cook gently over a slow fire for 1 hour 
and 15 minutes, and serve. 

(6) Treat the pork, onions, and parsley as in (a). Soak the 
biscuits for 2 hours, then squeeze them dry, mince up the pork and 
mix it with the biscuits, onions, parsley, and pepper ; then roll it 
into balls, and place in a camp kettle, with sufficient water to cover, 
and cook gently over a slow tire, and serve. 

These recipes can also be prepared in the camp kettle lids by 
placing the layers of pork and biscuits or balls in one camp kettle 
lid, and covering it with another, and placing a few live embers 
underneath and on top of the lids. 

Salt Beef and Dumplings. 

Meat, flour, suet, water. Soak and well wash the meat in cold 
water, and place it in the camp kettle with plenty of water, and boil 
gently for 1 hour ; then throw away the water in which it was 
boiled, and replace it with fresh cold water, and boil till the meat 
is cooked. Chop the suet up fine, mix it with the flour, and pour in 
some cold water and well mix the whole, and form it into dumplings 
about 2 inches in diameter ; place the dumplings in the kettle with 
the beef about 30 minutes before the latter is cooked, and let both 
boil together until done. 

Soup with Australian Preserved Meat. 

Meat, mixed vegetables, flour, pepper, salt, barley, water. 

Place the water in the camp kettle, scrape and clean the vege- 
tables, add them to the cold water ; when the water boils, shake in 
the dry barley. When the vegetables are cooked, take them out 
and pulp them ; mix the flour into a smooth batter with cold water, 
add it to the vegetables with salt and pepper, and put the whole 
into the camp kettle, keeping it well stiiTed to prevent burning ; 
allow it to simmer gently for 30 minutes, then open the tins of meat 
and add the contents to the soup, stir well, and simmer for ten 
minutes, and serve. 

Stew with Australian Preserved Meat. 

-■■ Meat, potatoes, onions, pepper, salt, and water. 

After preparing the onions and potatoes put them in the 
camp kettle, season with pepper and salt, pour in sufficient water to 



71 



cover them, and stew gently, keeping the lid of the vessel closely 
shut until the potatoes are nearly cooked ; then open the tins of 
meat and cut up the contents, and put them in the kettle with the 
potatoes, and let the whole simmer for 10 minutes, then serve. 

Brown Stew with Australian Preserved Meat. 

Peel and slice the onions, melt the fat of the meat in the camp 
kettle, add the onions and fry them till brown, mix the flour into 
a smooth batter with cold water, season with pepper and salt, and 
pour it into the camp kettle, stir the whole well together, cut up the 
meat into slices, put it into the kettle, and when warmed through 
serve. 

Directions as to the best methods of treating the rations when the 
rations are to be carried bj the men, will be found on Schedule VI. 



POINTS TO BE NOTED ON VISITING A KITCHEN. 



1. Ask for weekly diet sheets and compare the dinners with the 
description shown. 

2. Compare grocery books with the diet sheets ; the description 
of each meal should agree. 

3. See the articles necessary to provide the dish have been paid 
for by the company. 

4. Open the whole of the grocery books for any given day and 
compare the diets shown with the articles purchased ; by doing this 
you can form a good opinion of how the messing of the various 
companies has been carried out. 

5. Note the prices charged for various articles, especially those 
required frequently, such as tea, flour, sugar, onions, potatoes, mixed 
vegetables, milk, &c. 

6. Note the stock pot : bones broken small to extract their value ; 
pot or boiler to be frequently skimmed and the stock to be used in 
lieu of water in preparing dinners when the whole of it is not 
required for soup. Gravy should always be prepared from the stock 
pot. 

7. See the dripping itself and dripping return ; note the disposal 
of the dripping and how accounted for. 

8. Inspect the grocery cupboards and see if the contents agree 
with the articles that have been paid for. 

9. Note the general appearance of the food, cooks, and kitchen ; if 
jou do not find cleanliness you cannot expect very favourable results. 

10. Note recapitulation in each book. 

11. Excepting Numbers 5 and 10, the sei-jeant-cook should be 
held responsible for any mistake that has not been brought to the 
notice of the OiEcer Commanding the company. 



72 



APPENDIX. 



SCHEDULES. 

Illustrative of the Present System of Militart Cooking, 
SHOWING Economy Effected, the Variety of Diet Obtained 
AND the Alimentary Principles Necessary for a Soldier 
OR Working Man. 

The followiug Schedules are published in order to illustrate the 
principles laid down in the " Memoranda upon the Messing of the 
Soldier," issued in May, 1891, and revised, August 1st, 1892. They 
form a sequel to the above memoranda, and show the economy 
effected, the variety of diet obtained, and the alimentary principles, 
necessary for a soldier or working man, under the several conditions 
of e very-day life. 

The system advocated by the Army School of Cookery is one 
which is mainly applicable to the feeding of, and cooking for, large 
numbers of individuals, as for example, in j^ublic institutions, 
schools, colleges, ships, in H.M. Army and Navy. The prices of 
groceries, vegetables, meat, and bread are those which can only be 
obtained by contract for supply on a considerable scale, and in 
judging of the prices given in the following Schedules, this fact 
must be taken into consideration. 

Schedule I. Variety of diets and ingredients required. 

II. Specimen of Military Diet for a unit in camp. 

III, Specimen of Military Diet for one week of a. 

battery, squadron or company in Barracks. 

IV. Monthly return of Dripping. 

V. Details of saving of Stock and Dripping. 

VI. Methods of treating rations when to be carried 
by the man. 



73 



SCHEDULE I. 



The following is given to assist in making up and checking 
Army Book B 48 :— 

DINNERS. 



1. — Baked meat and 

potatoes. 

2. — Baked meat and 

haricot beans. 

3. — Baked meat and 

lentils or peas. 

4. — E oast meat and 

Yorkshire pudding. 

5. — Roast meat stuifed. 

6. — Brown curry and rice. 

7. — Meat pies. 

8. — Brown stew. 

9. — Plain „ 

10. — Irish „ 

11. — Curried „ 

12. — Meat steamed. 

13. — Meat steamed with peas. 

14. — Meat steamed with hari- 

cot beans. 

15. — Meat puddings. 

16. — Sea pies. 

17. — Turkish Pillau. 

18. — Toad-in-the-hole. 



B 1. — Barley soup. 

2. — Pea „ 

3. — Lentil „ 

4. — Lentil and pea soup. 

5. — Hotch potch. 



G 1. — Plain pudding. 

2. — Plum „ 

3. — Jam rolls. 

4. — Currant rolls. 

5. — Plain raisin pudding. 

6. — Date pudding. 

7. — Bice pudding. 

8. — Bread and butter pud- 

ding. 

9. — Tapioca. 

10. — Apple, rhubarb, or other 

fruit tarts. 

11. — Apple, rhubarbjor other 

fruit puddings. 

12. — Treacle pudding. 

13. — Macaroni. 



It is optional whicli dinners are selected, but soups should 
always be given with a roast or bake, the ovens and boilers 
being used alternately by the various companies. 

BREAKFAST OR TEA. 



Butter. 

Porridge and milk. 

„ with golden syrup, 
jam or sugar. 
Cheese or Welsh rarebit. 
Eried liver. 

„ „ and bacon. 
Boiled eggs. 
Fried eggs and bacon. 
Bacon fried or boiled. 
Brawn. 

Faggots or rissoles. 
Curried liver. 

„ brawn. 
Tripe, stewed or curried. 



Corned meat. 
Bloaters. 
Haddocks. 
Kippers. 

Sprats, pickled or fried. 
Herrings, pickled or fried. 
Fish cakes. 



When in 

Lettuce. 
Spring onions. 
Radishes. 
Cresses. 
Plain salad. 
Dressed salad. 



Season. 



74 



SCALE OF INGREDIENTS EEQUIEED FOR 60 MEN. 



1. — Baked meat and potatoes — potatoes 5 stone, onions 2 lbs., 
pepper ^ oz., salt 1 oz. 

5. — Baked meat and haricot beans— onions 2 lbs., haricot beans 

8 lbs., pepper | oz., salt ozs. 

3. — Baked meat and blue peas — onions 2 lbs., blue peas 8 lbs., 

pepper ^ oz., salt 1^ ozs. 

4. — Roast meat and Yorkshire pudding — flour 10 lbs., egg powder 

6 packets, milk 5 quarts, pepper ^ oz., salt 1 oz. 
5 — Roast meat stuflFed— onions 2 lbs., bread 6 lbs., parsley small 
bunch, eggs 4, pepper | oz., salt 1 oz. 

6. — Brown curry and rice — mixed vegetables 4 lbs., onions 2 lbs., 

flour 2 lbs., curry powder 8 ozs., pepper ^ oz., salt 1^ ozs., 
rice 6 lbs. 

7. — Meat pies — onions 2 lbs., flour 12 lbs., pepper | oz., salt 1 oz. 

8. — Brown stews — mixed vegetables 4 lbs., onions 2 lbs., flour 

2 lbs., pepper ^ oz., salt 1 oz. 

9. — Plain stew — mixed vegetables 4 lbs., onions 2 lbs., flour 2 lbs., 

pepper J oz., salt 1 oz. 

10. — Irish stew — potatoes 5 stone, onions 4 lbs., pepper ^ oz., 

salt 1 oz. 

11. — Curried stew — onions 2 lbs., mixed vegetables 4 lbs., flour 

2 lbs., curry 8 ozs., pepper ^ oz., salt Ij ozs. 

12. — Steamed meat — mixed vegetables 4 lbs., onions 2 lbs., pepper 

^ oz., salt Ij ozs. 

13. — Steamed meat with peas — onions 2 lbs., blue peas 8 lbs., 

pepper J oz., salt 1^ ozs. 

14. — Steamed meat with haricot beans — onions 2 lbs., haricot 

beans 8 lbs., pepper ^ oz., salt 1^ ozs. 

15. — Meat puddings — flour 12 lbs., onions 2 lbs., pepper J oz., 

salt 1^ ozs. 

6. — Sea pies — flour 12 lbs., jDotatoes 5 stone, mixed vegetables 
2 lbs., onions 2 lbs., pepper J oz., salt Ij ozs. 

17. — Turkish pillau — rice 6 lbs., cayenne pepper j oz., onions 2 lbs., 

salt 2 ozs., sweet herbs 1 bunch, flour 2 lbs. 

18. — Toad-in-the-hole — ingredients as for No. 1, with 2 lbs. onions, 

4 quarts milk. 

1. — Barley soup — barley 6 lbs., mixed vegetables 6 lbs., onions2 lbs., 

flour 2 lbs., celery seed 1 packet, pepper ^ oz., salt 2 ozs. 

2. — Pea soup — split peas 7 lbs., mixed vegetables 6 lbs., onions 

2 lbs., flour 2 lbs., dried mint 1 packet, pepper 1^ oz., salt 

3 ozs. 

3. — Lentil soup — lentils 6 lbs., mixed vegetables 6 lbs., onions 2 lbs., 

flour 2 lbs., herbs 1 packet, pepper ^ oz., salt 3 ozs. 



75 



4 -Pea and lentil soup-lentils 4 lbs., split peas 3 lbs mixed 
vegetables 6 lbs., onions 2 lbs., flour 2 lbs., pepper 1^ ozs., 
salt 6 ozs., mixed herbs ^ packet. 

5 -Hotch potcii-blue peas 4 lbs., barley 3 lbs., mixed vegetables 

■ 6 lbs., onions 2 lbs., flour 2 lbs., pepper ^ oz., salt 3 ozs., 
cabbage lettuces or cabbages 6 heads, packet of sweet herbs, 
and small bunch of parsley. 

l.-Plain suet pudding-flour 15 lbs., salt 1 oz., baking powder 

2 -Plum Spudding- flour 15 lbs., raisins 3 lbs., currants 3 lbs., 

■ salt 3 ozs., baking powder 2 packets, treacle 1 lb., or sugar 
1 lb., spice 1 packet. 

3. -Jam rolls-flour 15 lbs., jam 6 lbs., bakmg powder 2 packets, 

4— Currant°rolls— flour 15 lbs., currants 6 lbs., baking powder 2 
packets, salt 2 ozs., sugar 2 lbs., 1 lb. of lemon peel. 

5. — Plain raisin pudding-flour 15 lbs., raisms 6 lbs., sugar 2 lbs., 

baking powder 2 packets, salt 1 oz. 

6. — Date pudding-dates 12 lbs., flour 10 lbs., sugar 3 lbs., salt 

1 oz., 1 nutmeg. ^ „ 

7. -Eice pudding— rice 6 lbs., milk 3 gallons, nutmegs 3, sugar 

3 lbs., butter i lb. , , „ „ o ii, 

8 —Bread and butter pudding-sliced bread 12 lbs., sugar 3 lbs., 

currants 3 lbs., butter 1^ lbs., milk 3 gallons, 1 nutmeg. 
9.— Tapioca pudding— tapioca 6 lbs., milk 3 gallons, sugar 3 lbs., 

nutmegs 3, butter 4 lb. „ n i 

lO.-Apple tirts-flour 10 lbs., apples 15 lbs., sugar 3 lbs., cloves 



J uz,., salt 1 oz. 



11. — Apple puddings— as above. 

12. — Treacle pudding— flour 15 lbs., treacle 6 lbs., salt 1 oz. 



76 



Being tlio Diet of three 
GOVERNMENT RATIONS. 

16 ozs., inoludiug bone ] „ 
, 16 ozs. / ^et value, 6-K 

NOTES. 

Dripping saved during the month 
J, 1891, was 9,536 ozs., or 596 lbs., 

at £9 18*. Od., being at the rate of 
per annum for 374 men. 

lb. of meat and bone produced 

1 oz. of Dripping in addition to 

ant or shelter for coots must be 
ed. 



^ SCHEDULE II. 

FIELD COOKING. 

Specimen op Mihtabt Diet in a Standing Camp pob One Week 
Companies of Mounted Infantry encamped at Bourley, near Aldershot, for the week ending gth Sept., 1891. 



MESSING MONEY. 

3d. per diem dfedueted from daily pay of each 
Soldier. 

Total nett cost per man, per diem, including fuel 

MILITARY FIELD DIET. 
Under the new system of cooHng. 



APPARATUS AND FUEL. 



Broati Arrow Kitchen. 
Aldershot Oven. 
Soyer's Stoves for Stock. 
.. did. 



Service Kettle, 12 quarts. 

7 „ 

3 lbs. of wood per man per diem. 
REMARKS. 



Nos. v., IX., and X. COMPANIES, MOUNTED INFANTRY. 
RBaiMBNTAL FIELD DIET RETURN. 
SCALE OP DIET FOR WEEK ENDING 5th SEPTEMBER, 1891. 



The extra i lb. of meat allowed for 
troops under canvas is used to provide a 
meat breakfast. Alternate companies or 
half-companies. 

The staff of cooks required are — 1 
Serjeant-Cook, 1 assistant to keep Stock 
and Dripping (with returns), and 1 cook 
and 1 assistant per company. 



MEALS. 



SUNDAY. 



MONDAY. 



130 <| 



Bkfst.— i Co. r 
„ i Co. 1 

Dinner 
Tea ... 



X. 



Coffee, Bacon, and 
Steaks. 

Baked Meat and 
Potatoes. Plum 
Pudding. 

Tea and Dripping. 



124 <i 



Coffee, Steaks, and 
Bacon. 

Brown Curry, Rice 
and Potatoes. 

Tea and Marmalade. 



TUESDAY. 



Coffee, Liver and 
Bacon, and Steaks. 

Roast Meat, Pota- 
toes, and Yorkshire 
Pudding. 

Tea and Dripping. 



WEDNESDAY. 



THURSDAY. 



FRIDAY. 



SATURDAY. 



Coffee, Steaks, Liver 
and Bacon. 

Meat Pies and Pota- 
toes. 

Tea and Dripping. 



Bkfst.- 

Dinuer 
Tea .. 



-i Co. / Coffee, Bacon, and 
-h Co. 1 Stews. 

Baked Meat and 
Potatoes. Plum 
Pudding. 
Tea and Dripping. 



120 



Bkfst. 

niunei 
Tea 



-iCo. r 
iCo.l 



Coffee, Roast Meat, 

and Salmon. 
Meat Puddings and 

Potatoes. 

Tea and Jam. 



Coffee, Liver ar^d 
Bacon, and Steaks, 

Baked Meat, Pota- 
toes and Pea Soup, 

Tea and Jam. 



Coffee, Eggs and 
Bacon, Liver — Ba- 
con and Steaks. 

Curried Stew and 
Potatoes. 

Tea and Dripping. 



Coffee, Stew, and 

Liver. 
Baked Meat and 

Potatoes. Plain 

Suet Pudding. 
Tea and Dripping. 



Coffee, Bacon, and j Coffee, Curried Liver, 

Roast ]i*eat. | and Stew. 

Baked Meat, Haricot ^ Roast Meat, York- 
Beans and Potatoes. '. shire Pudding an^d 



Tea and Fresh Fish. 



Potatoes. 
Tea and Dripping. 



Coffee, Bacon, and Coffee, Beef, and 



Beef. 
Baked Meat and 

Potatoes. Jam 

Rolls. 
Tea and Dripping. 



Brawn. 
Irish Stew. 



Tea and Marmalade. 



"^no^lY •^I'J'^Mliot.— Date, 20th August, 1891. 

10957} 



Coffee, Roast Meat, 

and Brawn. 
Baked Meat and 

Potatoes. Plum 

Pudding. 
Tea and Kippers. 



Coffee, Liver, Bacon, 

Steaks — and Eggs 

and Bacon. 
Roast Meat (Stuffed), 

Potatoes and Barley 

Soup. 
Tea and Fried Fish. 



Coffee, 

Bacon. 
Sea Pies. 



Stew, and 



Coffee, Brawn, and 
Beef. 

Roast Meat, York- 
shire Pudding and 
Potatoes. 

Tea and Dripping. 



Coffee, Beef, and 

Butter. 
Brown Curry, Rice 

and Potatoes. 

Tea and Fried Fresh 
Fish. 



Coffee, Butter, and 
Beef. 

Baked Meat, Hariccjt 
Beans and Potatoes. 

Tea and C^heese. 



Coffee, Beef, and 

Fried Liver. 
Brown Stew and 

Potatoes. Currant 

Rolls. 
Tea and Dripping. 



Tea and Syrup. 



Coffee, Fried Liver, 

and Beef. 
Baked Meat, Potatoes 

and Pea Soup. 

Tea and Dripping. 



RAYMOND POR.TAL, Oapt. & Adjt., Mounted Infantry. 



77 



M 

<1 
Q 



n 
I— I 

P3 

<1 
P 

CO 

p 

M 

<i 
R 
m 

P 
p 



n 

02 
P 
P 



ft 
O 



a , o 
n ca o . 



CP 



p. ^ 

§1, 



o ;J o 



c3 m o ^ 

© Q) 43 

oOpq 



_ 13 

ia o m oj £ 

O O (U o 

O o Mm 11 



m M O 



c3 



III 
^1- 



HP 



rcJ bo 

(3^ -<H 



p7 



CO ^ 

- O 
<B o 
HO 



CD 

"9 ° o 

o o o 

ti CS 



m he 

CO 

ce o 
o 



;3 
P 



CQfi 
ca t3 
H 3 



o - .• 

E-liH ° ^ 
o O P3 



o 



1 .1 1 

-ana's 
03 y B 

M 



W OQ 

EH 



P 

P 

OQ 



02 
P 
<1 
P 



o 

03 o 



o o> o 'r; u 
R an Or o3 

'^*goPp 

O 



p 



^ a) 



CD 



w 

Id 
ca 



0 



13 

03 



"(DO 



.9 



J 2 .3 to 
" o ta 

^ i= 
o P 

&50 " C3 d 

o.a-d 

^.'.S d M 

03 ^ g ffl 



© o 
d- 

o 



■2 i2 © o 9 

03 ^ O 

13 m H ••-.2 -d 

P ^ 5; ta p. 
2 .-^ g, ca 

5s © ^M-i ca S 

- ■ d a ©^ 

o 



j2 d „ 
^ ® d 
o 



S -a I 

.2 boo. 

g,T3d©MO"S 

d 2 3-^ 2 03 



'13 SCSI'S § S 

d a3 d 



"S be ft S S S 



d 

-rt .S -d -3 ^ 2 S 

0 -§ 3 bD to d p, 
bed " © © «.S 
03 8 S m o 

:= t.p §2.3 53 

1 ^ 1a o &, p 



.2 03 



3 O ^ o3 03 -r to 

) ^ ca flT3 

- © © 



- w 

D-l 03 S 
1 ^ -L _d 



ja o 



H;zi gcDHP-g 



n 



78 



M 
o 
o 

O 



C5 
Ph 

P5 



O 



p 

o ^ 

CQ >^ 

w 

O 
1^ 



ft 



60 

> 
02 



o 

CM 

U ^ 



H 



4-3 

CO 

(A 



1-1 to 



CO 



S 
<» 



w 

o 

P3 

O 

w 
w 

CQ 

W 
O 
!5 
<1 
►J 
<1 

p:i 

►J 
w 

Eh 
O 



larks 






a> 






Eemaining 
on Hand. 


ozs. 


: 


1—1 


00 
CO 


)er lb. 




-* 


Value at 4c?. j 




eo 
1-1 




tH 


s Sold. 


OZS. 


: 


Surphi 




o 
o 

iH 


u o 

-a 

na o s 


ozs. 




Issue 
Oomp 


CQ 


643 


)ping 

during 

ath. 


ozs. 




Drij 
saved 
Mo: 


CQ 


00 

t~ 


Average 
No. in 
Mess. 


CO 

-* 

00 


Date. 


Ist to 31st March, 
1892 



79 



SCHEDULE V. 



SAVING OF STOCK AND DEIPPING. 



The following details show the Comparative Economy and saving 
of Dripping and Stock effected by the present system of Cookery. 

100 lbs. ration meat or 133-| rations for 133 men, are found to 
produce as follows : — • 



Stock. 

Stock 6^ gallons. 

Fat skimmed and clarified ... Iv'o ^bs. 

Average amount of bone ... ... ... 18 j lbs. 



Dripping. 

Suet or surpKis fat removed previous to 

cooking and clarified ... ■ 3,^ lbs. 

Fat skimmed during cooking and clarified... \1- lbs. 
Fat skimmed from slock-pot and clarified ... lf',y lbs. 



s. d. 

Sale of bones at 2s. per cwt. realised ... 0 3i 

Value of dripping at 4d. per lb. ... ... 1 9f 

Total 2 Of 



It is found preferable to retain the dripping made from the suet 
for issue in lieu of butter, and that made froiu .skimmings of the 
stock-pot for cooking purposes. 

The results above desci'ibed are the results of experiments con- 
ducted at the Army School of Cookery with the ration meat issued 
to the troops^at Aldershot. 

(b 10957) B- 



80 



SCHEDULE VI. 



The following in considered tlie best nietliod of treating rations 
when the rations are to be carried on the man. 
The chief essentials in view are : — 

1. That rations should be prepared so as to prevent them 

going bad before they are required for consumption. 

2. That the rations should be so divided that their carriage by 

the soldier entails an even distribution of weight on eac'li 
individual. 

3. That the preparation of the rations before issue should be 

advanced to such a state that their subsequent treatment 
before they are ready for consumption is reduced to a 
minimum. 

4. That the rations, as carried by the soldier, should be cajmble 

either of being cooked in the mess-tin or collected and 
dealt with by the company cooks. 

The following methods of dealing with rations are suggested : 

(A). Method of dealing with full meat ration. 

Breakfast (stew) ; Mid-day meal (haversack ration of bread and 
cheese) ; Evening meal (steak). 

On receipt of the meat ration, it should be cut up into portions 
corresponding to the number of squadrons, troops, or companies. 

The company cooks should then remove the meat from the bone. 

The best portion of the meat should then be selected and cut up 
into thin steaks consisting as near as possible of portions each 
weighing 6 ozs. If the weather is hot these steaks should be fried 
in fat until partially cooked. They should then be allowed to cool. 
The remainder of the meat should be prepared for making stew. 
The stew should be cooked in the morning and issued for breakfast. 
The steaks should be laid on two clean watei'proof sheets, and the 
company should be formed up in two ranks with their mess tins. 
Both ranks should then file past, each man receiving his ration of 
meat and the necessary condiments. 

For the mid-day meal the haversack ration of bread and cheese 
should be utilised. 

On arrival in camp, if it is i^roposed that the men should cook 
their own dinner, all that is necessary is to add a little water to 
their mess tins, stir well and go on with the cooking ; or the meat 
can be fried if sufficient fat is available. Otherwise the meat can be 
dealt with as follows : 

One camp kettle per fifteen men, containing a litble water, should 
be placed on the flanks of the company ; the men should then file 
past emptying the contents of their mess tins into the kettles. Tlu' 
company cooks can then deal with the meat in the ordinary way. 



81 



This method would save time, besides leaving the men free for 
other woi'k. 

(B.) Method of dealing with fresh meat rations. 

Breakfast (fried steaks) ; Mid-day meal (haversack ration of bread 
and cheese) ; Evening meal (stew). 

As in (A), the company cooks should cut up the meat. The best 
portions should be cut into steaks, each weighing as near as possible 
I ■ 6 ozs. These steaks should be fried and issued for breakfast. The 
I'emainder of the meat should be cut into small cubes, sprinkled 
with flour, pepper, and salt, and placed on clean waterproof sheets 
and divided up into portions. The company should then file past 
with their mess tins, each man receiving his portion together with 
a piece of onion. The meat can be collected on arrival in camp and 
dealt with by the company cooks, oi-, if desirable, the men can cook 
the meat in their mess tinsi 

In the latter case, the men should add enough water to barely 
cover the meat, stir well, and cook over a small fire for about 
1^ hours. 

(C) Method of dealing with meat rations when they consist of 
half fresh meat and half preserved meat. 

When the meat ration consists of half fresh meat and half 
preserved meat, the preserved meat can be divided into two 
\ por tions : (1) for breakfast ; (2) for the mid-day meal ; the half ration 
of fresh meat being prepared by company cooks, either for frying 
(when suitable portions are available), or for stewing. On arrival 
in camp, the fresh meat can either be cooked by the men in their 
mess tins or collected and dealt with by the company cooks, or 
the fresh meat can be made into stew or cut into steaks and fried 
for breakfast, the preserved meat being issued to the men, one 
portion being used for the mid-day meal and the remainder for the 
evening meal. The latter could be heated up if desired. By 
adopting the foi-mei' method men are enabled to obtain their 
evening meal without delay, and without the necessity of waiting 
while the meat is cooking ; on the other hand, it is desiiuble to 
give men a hot evening meal when possible. 

When both fresh meat and presei^ved meat is carried in the mess 
tin, the former should be placed at the bottom and well pressed 
down. The preseiwed meat should be put on top. 

When preserved meat is issued in small tins, it will be unnecessary 
to remove the meat from the tins until required. 

Preparation of haversack rations, consisting of meat, for use when . 
bread and cheese is not available : — 

Take one-third of the issue of meat, cut into joints, and boil 
them until tendei', which will take about 2j houi's. Remove from 
the liquor and allow to cool. Cut into thin slices and issue. The 
remaining two-thirds of the issue can be treated as already 
described for stews, &c. 



82 



Steaks. 

Take the beat portions of the meat and cut into wlices about 
4 ozs. each, fry them in fat, and while wai-m press between two 
slices of bread, and issue as a liaversack ration. « 

Hints far cooking in Mess Tiiut, 

A mess tin will cook one man's meat with vegetaljlcs, and two 
men's without vegetables. 

Small fires only are I'equired, as rapid boiling makes meat tough 
and hard. 

If possible grease the tins on the outside before placing them on 
the fire ; this makes them easier to clean aftei wards. 

Not more than 10 mess tins should be placed aromid one fire. 

Utensils available for Dealing xoith Rations. 

The utensils available for cooking in camp are limited, and as 
the carriage of indi-\dduals entails additional use of the cooking 
vessels, some arrangement is necessary. 

The opportunity should be taken, when it is decided to partially 
cook the rations before issue, to do this ovei' niglit, leaving the 
kettles free for the prepai-ation of bieakfast on the following 
morning. When the evening meat rations are to be dealt with by 
company cooks, it will often be found advisable to make the men 
prepare their own tea, and vice versd. 



(10957) Wt. 20948— 138 8,000 9/14 H&S P. 14/367. 



8 



Instructions 



[Croivii Coivjnght liesevved. 



FmANCIAL INSTRUCTIONS 

IN eeJjAtion to 

ARMY ACCOUNTS. 
1910. 



Reprinted with Amendments to 1st September, 1914. 

Paragraph 99 of these Instructions is a Regulation made hy the 
Secretary of State imder Section 23 of the Regimental Debts 
Act, 1893; Paragraph 223 -is a Regulation made by the 
Army Council toit/iin the meaning of Section 142 (1) of the Army 
Act; Paragraphs 121 to 183, and 185, londer Sections 2 and 4 
of the Pensions and Yeomanry Pay Act, 1884; Paragraphs 159 
to IM under the Superannuation Act, 1887; Paragraphs 186 
to 210, under Section 20 of the Reserve Forces Act, 1882 ; and 
Paragraphs 212 to 273, imder Section 2 of the Pensions and 
Yeomanry Pay Act, 1884, and Section 20 of the Reserve Forces 
Act, 1882. 




LONDON: 

PRINTED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE 
By HARRISON and SONS, 45-47, St. Martin's Lane, W.C.. 
Pkintebs in Ordinaby to His Majesty. 



and 



To be purchased, either directly or through any Bookseller, from 
AVYMAN AND SONS, Ltd., 29, Breams Buildings, Fetter Lane Ji.l>. 

54, St. Mary Street, Cardiff; or „- 
n.M. STATIONERY OFFICE (Scottish Branch), 23, Forth Street, Edinbur&h , or 
E PONSONBY, Ltd., 116, Grafton Street, Dublin ; 
or from the Agencies in the British Colonies and Dependencies 
the United States of America, the Continent of Europe and Ahroad ot 
T. FISHER UNWIN, London, W.O. 

1910. 



Vrice Fourpence. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



PAOU 

Section I.— ARMY PAY DEPARTMENT:— 

1. Obgahization and Geneeal Duties 1 

2. Command Sebvices .. .. .. .. .. 3 

(a) General . . . . , . . . . . . . 3 

(6) Office Books and Records . . . . , . 3 

(c) Examination of Bills and Claims • . . . . 4 

(d) General Barrack Damages, &c. . . . . , . 6 

(e) Regimental Claims ; Regular Forces . . . . (i 

(f ) Services in certain Commands Abroad . . (j 

3. Teeasubt Chest Duties 6 

4. Cashiee 7 

5. Regimental Services ., .. .. .. ..11 

(a) General .. .. .. .. .. ..11 

(b) Compilation of Company, &c., Pay Lists . . 12 

(c) Regimental Claims, &c. . . . . . . . . 23 

(d) Separation Allowance and Allotments of Pay . . 23 

(e) Special Reserve and Territorial Force . . . . 23 
(/) Pensions, Army Reserve Pay and Special Re- 
servists' Non-Training Bounties . . . . 23 

6. Accounts 52 

(a) General Rules , . . . . . . . . . 52 

(J) Returns of Receipts and Expenditure . . . . 53 

(0) Abstracts of Examination and Disallowances . . 54 

7. Cobbespondence, Retuens and Repoets .. .. 54 

Section II.— SUB-ACCOUNTANTS 55 

1. Geneeal Duties .. .. .. .. .. ..55 

2. Payment of Regulae Troops.. .. .. .. 56 

3. Special Reserve and Teehitoeial Foece .. .. 57 

4. Payment of Military and Civilian Subobuinates 58 

5. Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 

Section III.— ARMY AGENTS 60 

Section IV.— BILLS AND CLAIMS 60 

1. General Peooeduee 60 

2. Conteactors' Bills .. .. •• ..61 

3. Rents Payable and Rates and Taxes . . . . 62 

4. Justices' Clerks' and othee Legal Fees .. .. 63 

5. Rents, &c.. Receivable 64 

6. Sales of Supplies, Stobes, Animals, &c 64 

(B 10863) Wt. 20801—128 7500 10/14 H 4 S ' P 14, 360 



CONTENTS. Ul 



Sbotion v.— receipts AND OTHER TROOE OP PAY- 
MENT 



Section VI.— REMITTANCES AND PAYMASTERS 
ADVANCES 



1. Remittances bbom Abeoad (except India) 

2. Remittances seom India 

3. Remittances to India . . 



page 
65 

6G 

66 
67 
68 



4. Adjustment by means op Patmastees' Adtancgs . , 68 

Section VII.— NON-EFFECTIVE ESTATES 70 

1. Geneeai. .. .. .. .. ., ..70 

2. Non-effective Accounts of Men of the Rkgulab 

FOECBS AND THE SPECIAL ReSEETE .. ., 70 

3. Repoet of Effects of Deceased and Insane 

soldiees .. .. .. ., .. ..72 

4. Disteibution of Soldiees' Estates .. .. .. 73 

5. Peitate Psopeetx of Soldiees Sentenced to 

Penal Seetitude or Impeisoxment .. .. 73 



Section VIII.— ACTIVE SERVICE 



74 



Paet I. — Theatbb of Opeeations . . . . . . 74 

A. G-ENEEAL Insteuctions .. .. .. ..74 

B. Oeganization .. .. .. .. ..76 

C. Duties . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 

(l.) Paymaster-in-Chief . . . . . . 76 

(ii.) Paymaster-in-Charge of Commaud Sei-rices 77 
(iii.) Paymaster-in-Ciiarge of Clearing House. . 77 
(iv.) The Base Cashier .. .. ,, ..78 

(v.) Field Casliier 79 

(vi.) Paymaster-in-Cliarge of Regimental 

Services .. .. .j .. ..79 

Paet II. — Home Stations . . . . 80 

A. Command Paymastee .. .. .. ..80 

B. Cashiee .. ,. ,. ..80 

C. Fixed Centee Paymastee .. .. ..80 



APPENDICES. 

Appendix I.-.-Finanoial adjustments on account of services per- 
formed by the Army for tlie Navy, and vice 
versd . . . . . . . . . . . . 85 

Appendix 11. — Payment of units proceeding to or from India, 

as ordinary reliefs at Indian expense . . . . 89 

Index 93 



iv 



FINANCIAL INSTRUCTIONS. 



It is requested that should any errors be discovered, they may be 
at once pointed out in writing to the Secretary of tlie War 
Office. 

DEFINITIONS OF TERMS. 



TTNIT, in these Instructions will be held to signify, in the — 

Cavalry. — A regiment or depot. 

Royal Horse Artillery. i a, 

.„ Y-^ battery or depot. 
Royal Field Artillery. J 

Royal Garrison Artillery. — A company or depSt. 

Royal Engineers. — A field troop, bridging train, telegraph, 
lailway or balloon company, coast battalion section, com- 
pany, or field dep6t. 

Infantry. — A battalion or regimental depot. 

Army Service Coiys. 

Royal Army Medical Corps. >A company. 
Army Ordnance Corps. 

Army Veterinary Corps. — A section or depot. 
Special Reserve, "i As defined in the regulations for the Special 
Territorial Force, f Reserve and Territorial Force respectively. 
COMPANY, &c., signifies squadron, company, battery, or troop. 
SOLDIER inckides warrant officers, non-commissioned officers, 
and men of the Regular Forces, unless the context shows the 
expression to be used in another sense. 

PAYMASTER will be held to include any agent or officer 
rendering direct accounts to the "War Office or local auditor, except 
wheu the context clearly shows that such interpretation is not 
applicable. 



TIMNCIAL INSTRUCTIONS, 1910. 



[leprinted with AmBndments to 1st Septemb2r, 1914. 



SECTION I— ARMy PAY DEPARTMENT. 



1. O' ' j!TIZATI01f AND GENERAL DTTTIES. 

1. The dutii.^ of the Army Pay Departmeat include the receipt Duties, 
nd disbursement of moneys receivable and payable for array 
ervices in a command, and the compilation of accounts connected 
herewith. 

2. For these duties a command paymaster at the headquarters of p°^g^g^r. 
ach command will be responsible under the general officer i/c ad- 
ainistration. He will act as financial adviser to the general officer 

/c administration in all questions of pay and allowances and in such 

ither mattei's as tha.t officer may refer to him. He will command 

heArmy Pay Department and Army Pay Corps within his area, and 

xercise supervision and control over the personnel and organization 

if all pay offices in the command. He will himself perform the duties 

if paymaster for command services* and will have the immediate 

lirection and supervision of the work of the cashier, whose cash 

.nJ bank balances he will verify at least once a month. He will | — ^^^i^^^ 

lot hold money on imprest except such small sums as may be 

■equired to meet the contingent expenses of the command pay 

iffice. 

T> • 1 .11 1 • r (> T Eegimental 

3. Kegimental paymasters will be appomted tor duty at such paymaster. 

)laces as may, from time to time, be decided upon, and will carry out, 

mder the general instru'-tions of the command paymaster, account- 1 ^'^^^^ 

ng duties in respect of allotted regimental services. ' 

4. A paymaster will be appointed to the command to act as Cashier, 
ashier and will, under the immediate direction of the command 
jaymaster, receive, issue, and account for all cash receivable and 
)ayable within the command. 

5. A paymaster will be held liable for the amount of a disallow- pecuniary 
mce arising from an error or overissue made or authorized by 

lim in disregard of regulations or without proper authority. 

6. Questions relating to a soldier's pay and emoluments, &c., j^.o.i32 
i^ill be dealt with by the general officer commanding the command ^gj- 
n which the soldier is serving. 

* See paragraphs 15 and 67. 

(10853) 



Army Pay Department. 



2 



A.0. 132 

1913" 



Appeals 
against dis- 
allowances. 



Reference 
to the Army 
Council. 



Opening of 
letters.l 



Avoidance 
of arrear of 
work. 

Inspection 
of offices, 
books, &c. 

Regimental 
funds. 

Paymaster 
in 

pecuniary 
difficulties. 



If a paymaster is desired by military autliority to make a 
payment, or accept a charge or credit, which it) his opinion is not 
authorized by reguhitions or is otherwise incorrect, he will 
state his objections in writing. If these objections are not 
removed, and the military authorities desire to pursue the matter, 
the procedure indicated in paragraph 6a will be followed ; except 
that where the paymaster and the unit are serving in the same 
command the case will be first referred to the command paymaster. 

eA. Appeals by the military authorities a^^ainst the obje'ctionroi- 
disallowances of a paymaster will be made to the general officer i/c 
administration of the command in which the troops concerned are 
serving, w-ho, if unable to concur with the paymaster {or the 
command paymaster as provided in paragraph 6) will submit the 
case to the War Office for decision, attaching the original corre- 
spondence. 

6b. Appeals against disallowances made by paymasters or local 
auditors will similarly be referred te the War Office for decision 
if the general officer i/c administration is unable to concur in the 
disallowance. 

7. Should the general officer i/c administration desire the 
command paymaster to make a payment or pass a charge, or accept 
a credit, which, in the opinion of the latter, is contraiy to regu- 
lations or otherwise incorrect, the general officer i/c administration 
will refer the question for the decision of the Army Council. lu 
such a case the command paymaster will make a separate report 
departmentally to the Accounting Officer (Assistant Financial Secre- 
tary) at the War Office. Pending receipt of War Office decision the 
command paymaster will defer payment, except in case of emergency 
at a station abroad where the officer commanding the troops, after 
taking into consideration the command paymaster's objection, may 
order in writing that the payment be made, and apply to the War 
Office for covering sanction. The command paymaster in that event 
will comply with the order and will report the case departmentally 
to the Accounting Officer at the War Office. The personal liability 
attaching to all officers who order disbursement of public moneys 
will then rest upon the officer commanding, the troops. 

8. Official letters will be opened by the paymaster, or, in his 
absence, by the officer acting for him. This duty is never to be 
delegated to any member of the subordinate staff. 

9. A paymaster will be held responsible that no arrear occurs in 
the work of his office, and that the books are posted up daily 
and are at all times ready for inspection. 

10. Offices, records, and accounts will be open to the inspection of 
superior authority and. of such officers as may be appointed for the 
purpose. 

11. A paymaster will not take charge of any regimental or other 
funds not belonging to the public. 

12. A paymaster who may be involved in pecuniary difficulties 
will, pending investigation and decision of superior authority, be 
suspended from duty. 



3 



Army Pay Department. 



13. All offices of the department will be open for the transaction offioe 
of public business for not less than six working hours a day, and the 
services of paymasters and clerks will be available at all times, if 
required, independently of the hours during which an office may 

be open. 

2. COMMAlirD SERVICES. 
[a) General. 

14. The command paymaster will examine bills and claims for Bills and 
command services, and authorize cash payments and receipts, co'J^and 
including the issue of funds on imprest, in respect of these services, services. 

15. At home stations all cash accounting services (except those 
enumerated in paragraph 67) and training grant expenditure, 
regular forces, other than separation allowance, will be dealt with 
as command services. 



A.0. 132 



1913 
A.O. 202 



lftl3 

(6) Office Books and Kecords. 

16. All public charges and credits on account of command Record of 
services will be recorded in detail in Army Books 207 and 208 f^ems. ^^'^ 
(Classified Abstract Books, Receipts and Expenditure). The 

totals of the accounts columns of these books will be carried monthly 
into A.F. N 1506 (General State of Accounts), which will then 
be completed and rendered by the paymaster in the manner 
laid down in sub-section 6. 

17. Ledgers (A.F. N 1527 for Imprests, and Army Book 61 fori Ledger, 
other accounts) will be kept containing the ledger accounts of all I A.O. 352 
sub-accountants and such other ledger accounts as the nature 6f mi 
the paymaster's transactions may render necessary. The ledgers 

will be retained for six years from the date of the last entry 
therein. 

18. Cancelled. I A.O. 254 

I 1911 

19. The paymaster will keep subsidiary books, as may be pre- Subsidiary; 
scribed or required, for the registration, notation, or examination of 

claims by or against the public, contracts or agreements, and other 
information aflecting the work of his office. 

20. The full terms of all contracts or agreements, as notified to Notation of 
the paymaster by the heads of services and departments, will be teraT'''^ 
carefully recorded by, or under the personal supervision of, the 

officer responsible for the detailed examination of the bills or claims 
connected therewith. 

21. A record of hiriugs and letting of lands, buildings, &c., as Record of 
notified by the responsible officers, will be kept in Army Books 62 fettinfs''"'^ 
and 229 respectively, in which will also be entered the payments in 
respect of, and the receipts arising from, each hiring or letting, as 

the case may be. 

22. All particulars of appointment, rates of pay and allowances, Leave Book, 
leave, &c., of officers and other's in the pay of the paymaster will 

be recorded in Army Book 230 (Leave Book), 

(b 10853) ' B 2 



Army Pay Department. 



4 



Payment 
by cashier. 



Examina- 
tion of bills 
and claims. 



Responsi- 
bility of 
directing 
■staff. 



A.O.107 



1911 



Confi- 
dential list 
of bills. 



Wages 
check book. 



A.O. 9 1 
1913 



Claims 
against 
contractors 
and other 
persons. 



Contractors' 
deposits. 



23. Bills and clainia parsed by tlie paymaster for paytueut will be 
detailed on A.F. O 1818 and forwarded to the ca.sliier. The pay- 
master will secure the return of the bills and claims, after payment, 
with A.F. 0 1818 duly completed by the cashier. 

(c) Examination of Bills and Claims for Payment, Receipt, or 
other Form of Adjustment. 

24. Examination of bills and claims by the jiaymastei' will, except 
where di.sbursenients or receipts aie effected through sub- 
accountants, be carried out l)efore payment or other cash adjust- 
ment takes ])lace. In the case of disbursements and receipts by 
sub-accountants, the examination will be carried out as soon as 
accounts and vouchers are received from sub-accountants, the worda 
"Adjusted through Imprest Account" being distinctly stamped 
on the vouchers by the paymaster. 

25. Where services are cai'ried out by contract, the paymaster 
will be responsible that each bill passed by him for payment is in 
accordance with the contract, and has been duly approved by com- 
petent authority. 

The checking, computations, &c., will be carried out by the 
subordinate staff'. The paymaster will satisfy himself that this 
has been done, and also as to the general correctness of the bill 
and that it is pn.perly payable from public funds. He will stamp 
and certify the voucher as directed in para. 277. 

26. Bills for Army Service Corps, Royal Engineer, Army 
Ordnance, Army Medical, and Array Veterinary Services, for- 
warded to a pay office for payment, will be compared by tl.'C 
p»iymaster with the list of bills on A.F. P 1964 (Confidential List) 
transmitted by the certifying officer. 

27. When civilian subordinates in the payment of the command 
paymaster aie paid on the check book, he will call for the check 
book, monthly, for examination and comparison with the wages 
certificates rendered to him by the paying officer. 

27a. The paymaster will take such steps as will ensure that all 
imprest accounts are properly kept, that no excessive balance is 
held, and that the bank pass book is called for at lea.-"t once a year 
in order that the bank balance, as shown in the account, may be 
verified. 

28. If a claim arises against a contractor or any person not 
serving in the army, or against a public department, &c., and is 
not met when due, the pa} master will at once op-n a formal 
ledo-er account with the jierson, department, &c., concerned, and 
debit the account with the full amount of the claim, crediting the 
credit suspense account pending recovery and credit to Army Votes. 



29. Deposits received from contractors as guarantees tor tne 
due fulfilment of their contracts, or for workmen's passes, will be 
credited under a special heading in the general state of accounts. 
Repayment of the deposits will be charged under the same head- 
ino-, reference being given to the corresponding credits. In com- 
mands to which a Local Auditor has been appointed, the deposits 
will be adjusted through a local suspense account. 



5 



Army Pay Department. 



30. The payni.oster will carry out a systematic periodical ',\g^°j^'J.''g o( 
examination of the office records of claims, rents, or other revenue eUi'ms'^riue° 
due to the public, adopting such measures as will secure the to public, 
prompt discharge of claims and the necessary credits to public funds. 

31. If the payment of rents, acknowledgments for encroach- Arrears of 
ments, or other revenue yielded by property belonging to, or in rents, 
charge of, the War Department should fall into arrear, the pay- 
master will report the matter to the Chief Engineer or, in the • 

case of quarters let, the officer in charge of bari-acks. The pay- 
master will prepare, in support of his account, a monthly list 
(A.F. P 1933) of all rents, &c., received or in arrear. 

32. The paymaster will keep a register of all sums due from Horse hire 
and paid by officers on account of hire of horses supplied at the claims, 
public expense, and will prepare claims for recovery of the amount 

of hii-e due to the public (see the Allowance Regulations). 

33. Payments for furniture hire lecoverable under the ^i"™i"f^g 
Allowance E.egulatio:as in respect of quarters or messes will be 
secured montlily by the paymaster, who will maintain such 
sufficient record of claims, or other information supplied to him 

from time to time by the responsible officers, as will ensure that 
payments due to the public are not allowed to lapse or fall into 
arrear. 

34. The proceeds of pales of stores, supplies, animals, &c., and ^^[gg^^'Jf °^ 
the value of stores and supplies issued on payment, will be ' 
recovered on information furnished by the issuing officer, or the 

officer responsible for the sale, as the case may be. \Vhen a person 
not serving in the army makes paj'meut by means of a cheque or 
draft, the paymaster will not notify payment to the issuing or 
other officer concerned imtil the cheque or draft has been cleared. 
The paymaster will see that the financial provisions contained iu 
departmental or other regulations governing sales have been duly 
observed. 

35. All incidental expenses connected with sales, such as cost Adverhsini 
of advertising, posting bills, &c., are. chargeable against Army &c. 
Votes ; any customs duty which may be payable will be charged 
against appropriations in aid of the Army Votes concerned. In the 

ease of sales by auction, commission payable to the auctioneer will 
be deducted from the gross proceeds before credit is given to the 
public. 

35a. The travelling expenses, when admissible, of officers and 
soldiers, and their families, on the Indian establishment, are usually 
chargeable to Indian funds and should be so classified by pay- 
masters in their accounts. 

When officers and soldiers are transfeiTed to or from the Indian 
establishment their travelling expenses to or from the port in the 
United Kingdom, or in the Colony in which they are serving, are 
chargeable to Imperial funds, but the cost of their sea passages and 
of any travelling expenses outside the United Kingdom or the 
Colony in which they are serving will usually be borne by Indian 
funds and should be so classified by paymasters in their accounts. 

(b 10853) B 3 



A.O. 71 



1911 

Travelling 
expenses oi 
oiKcers and 
others on 
the Indian 
Establish- 
ment. 



Army Pay Department. 



6 



Claims 
against unit 
in India. 



Treasury 

Chest 

duties. 



The land travelling expen.ses in the United Kingdom of soldier.s 
from India proceeding to their homes on dimcbarge or transfer to 
the reserve are chargeable to Imperial Funds. 

(d) General barrack damages, including- losses and deficiencies 
of stores, chargeable ag-ainst troops. 

35b. On receipt of a claim against a unit for barrack and 
other stores lost, damaged or destroyed (A F. P. 1956) or for damage.s 
to buildings (A.F. P 1960), the command payma.ster of the command 
in which the troops are quartered will recover the amount of the 
claim from the officer commanding the unit in cash and credit the 
public' 

35c. "When a claim is payable by a unit which has proceeded to 
India, the amount due will be recovered by the command pay- 
rnaster of the command in which the unit was quartered at the 
time of embarkation. No credit will be given until the amount 
has been recovered through the Miscellaneous Remittance Return 
of the unit, but in the meantime the claim will be recorded as out- 
standing in the book kept for the purpose (fee paragraph 19). 

35d. The amount shown ou the return of damages, Sec, by 
soldiers under sentence in detention barracks or military prisons 
(A.F. P 1924) will be recovered by the command paymaster and 
credited to the public. 

(e.) Regimental claims : Regular Forces. 

35e. Claims for pay (when not drawn through the regimental 
agents), command pay, extra duty pay, travelling expenses and 
allowances for journeys not under route, and mess, lodging and 
other allowances due to officers (except olficers of the regular 
establishment s^aecial reserve and permanent staff territoiial force), 
will be examined by the command paymaster of the command in 
which the officer.s are quartered. After being stamped and 
certified as directed in paragraph 277, they will be passed to the 
cashier for payment. 

In the case of light allowance the certificate of each individual 
ofiicer concerned that light in kind was not received will not be 
required, the certificate of the officer commanding on A.F. P 1934 
being sutficient. 

(f) Services in certain Commands Abroad. 

36. In certain commands abroad, a paymastei* will, unless bis 
duties have otherwise been defined, carry out the cash and account- 
ing duties ordinarily assigned to command paymasters and regi- 
mental paymasters and cashiers. 

3. TREASITRY CHEST DTJTIES. 

87. A paymaster at a station abroad, when required and so 
appointed, will act as agent for the Lords Commissioners of the 
Treasury in the raising and movement of funds, and in the receipt 
and disbursement of moneys on account of such Imperial and 
Colonial Services as he may be ordered to perform in his capacity of 
Treasury chest officer. Instructions for the guidance of officere 



V 



Army ray jjeparcmeni 



acting OD behalf of the Treasury are containec] in the "Regulations 
for conducting the duties of the Treasury Chests Abroad." 

38. When a transfer of duties takes place with a paymaster in Transfer of 
charge of a Treasury chest, a balance-sheet will be prepared in ^^''t^^^- 
triplicate on A. F. N 1501, and will be signed by the outgoing and 
incoming paymasters, who will each retain a copy ; the third copy 

will be sent to the War Office. 

39. A paymaster in charge of a Treasury chest will not keep any Cash 
bank or cash balance in addition to that which he holds as Treasury i^'^l^.nce. 
chest officer. All " Cash " will be adjusted through the Treasury 
chest accounts and shown therein. 

40. Gains and losses by exchange, arising on funds employed for Gains and 
purely military purposes, should be included in the monthly e'xchange. 
accounts rendered to the War Office ; where they occur in the 
raising of funds for the Treasury chest, in the monthly accounts 
rendered to the Treasury. 

4. CASHIER. 

41. The cashier will requisition monthly on the War Office, ^^J^ °^ 
through the command paymaster, for the funds required in a „ 
command at home. In South Africa, Malta and Bermuda he will I ^'^9^3 — 
requisition similarly on the paymaster in charge of the Treasury 

chest ; at other stations abroad payments for army services will be 
made direct from the Treasury chest, in accordance with the 
Treasury Chesf Regulations. Where a Treasury chest does not 
exist the command paymaster will ariunge for the supply of funds 
under the authority of the War Office. 

42. The cashier will avoid requisitioning a larger supply of l^equisitioi 
funds than is likely to be required for the services of the month, to actual''' 
having regard to any unexpended funds in hand and amounts to require- 
be received. Should a supplementary demand be found necessary, "^^nts. 
full particulars of service will be given. 

43. The cashier will receive imprests from the War Office, or Receipt an 
the Treasury chest officer, as the case may be. He will pay bills {^''^^"^ 
and claims only when duly approved by a paymaster, or when 
special instructions for payment are sent to him by the War Office ; 

and he will issue funds on imprest to company and other officers. 

44. Requisitions for imprests for command services will be Imprests t 
authorised by the command paymaster before funds are issued to ^"J^' ^^^^^.^^^ 
sub-accountants. Requisitions for imprests for regimental services 
to sub- accountants (such as company officers, adjutants, &c.), draw- 
ing regularly, will be forwarded direct to the cashier, who will 
satisfy himself, before complying with a requisition, that the issue 

is of the normal amount for the service. Other requisitions for 
imprests for regimental services will be authorized by the regi- 
mental paymaster before funds are issued to sub-accountants. 

45. The cashier will, without delay, give credit in his accounts Receipts tc 
for every sura received by him All cheques, on receipt by the p?omptfyt 
cashier, will at once be crossed by him to the particular bank at account. ' 
which he keeps his public account and will be paid in, for collection 

by the bank, at the earliest possible date. 

(b 10853) B 4 



A.O. 355 



1912 



Army Pay Department. 



B 



Mode of 
payment 



Pniticulars 
of pay- 
ments. 



Open draft. 



Payment to 
person on 
behalf of 
another. 

Bank 
under- 
taking. 



46. Payments by the cashier will be made by draft (or cheque in 
the case of certain stations abroad), cash, money order, or post ai order. 

47. When a draft is issued for a composite amount {e.g. the 
total of two separate allowances) or for a net amount {e.g. pay 
minus income duty), the cashier will insert on the draft brief 
particulars of each item. 

48. When a draft is issued to a person not wishing to pass the 
draft through a bank, the cashier will substitute for the usual 
crossing the words " Please pay cash," and initial that instruction. 

49. Cash is not to be handed over by the cashier to any person 
other than the person to whom it is actually due unless to a com- 
missioned officer, or to a warrant officer duly authorized to receive 
the working pay due to military working parties. 

50. The public banking account of the cashier will be keyjt at 
such bank or banks as may be approved by the War Office. Before 
any account is opened, the manager of the bank will be required to 
furnish an undertaking to the following effect : — 

" All money which may be deposited in this bank by'any army 
accountant for the public service will be held by the bank on behalf 
of the Secretary of State for War as public money, and the account 
thereof will be kept in the books of the bank as such, subject to 
the drafts of the accountant making deposits, or of any other 
accountant into whose name the account may from time to time be 
duly transferred. 

" The bank undertakes to furnish information at all times 
respecting the public banking accounts of such accountants to any 
officer deputed by the Secretary of State, or to the command 
paymaster, and also, on demand, to surrender the balance thereof 
to any such officer or command paymaster, or at his request 
to hold such balance free from the drafts of any particular 
accountant." 

51. The heading of the account in the bank pass book should 
show clearly that the account is solely on the public service. 

53. Any sum allowed by a bank as interest on the public 
banking account of a cashier will be duly brought to account by him. 

53. A cashier will not under any circumstances merge public 
money to be a,nd private money in the same account. He will not apply 
appliedonly p^i^j-^ money to any purpose not authorized by the regulations of 

the service, nor will he advance, lend, or exchange any sum for 
which he is accountable, or change private cheques out of public 

54. Cashiers at home and in certain commands abroad will 
obtain from their authorized bankers forms of draft approved by 
the War Office. Such drafts need not bear a stamp other than 
the usual rec-ipt stamp (when required by statute). The use 
of cheques by cashiers (other than paymasters at certain stations 
abroad) is not allowed. . 

55. The bank pass book will be kept for a period of six years 
from the date of the last entry therein. Paid cheques (where 
cheques are used) and their counterfoils will be kept for six years. 



Pass book. 



Interest. 



Public 



authorized 
services 



Forms of 
draft or 
cheque. 



Old bank 
pass books. 



9 



Army Pay Department. 



56. The amount of cash retained in the office of a cashier will 
be as small as possible. 

57. Whenever boxes or packages containing bullion or specie 
pass into the custody of the cashiei', he will be responsible for the 
bullion or specie while in his possession. The boxes or packages 
will be sealed whenever possible, the seals being verified whenever 
there is a change of custodiati. The cashier should inspect the 
boxes or packages frequently, daily if possible, giving special atten- 
tion to the seals and other fastenings. 

58. When a person, in whose favour a draft or cheque has been 
issued, reports that it has been lost by him or not received, the 
cashier will at once instruct his bankers to stop payment, and, 
after obtaining from them an acknowledgment that this has been 
done, will issue a new draft or cheque. In cases where the payee 
admits that he received the draft or cheque, he should be required, 
before the issue of a new one, to furnish a written undertaking to 
make good any sum payable by the public in consequence of its loss. 

When a postal order issued by the cashier is proved to have been 
lost the paymaster will authorize the re-issue of the amount and 
will report the circumstances to the postmaster-general requesting 
that as soon as the order becomes void through lapse of time limit 
its value may be refunded. 

Pending the refund the paymaster will debit the amount to 
his suspense account. 

59. The cashier will keep a cash book (Army Book 209) and 
such subsidiary books as may be necessary, in which he will record 
all transactions. The cash book will be retained for a period of 
six years from the date of the last entry therein. 

60. Receipts and payments will be entered in the cash book 
under date of the day on which the amounts are actually received 
or paid. The date on which a draft for an amount is drawn is to 
be regarded as that on which such amount is paid. The cash book 
will be balanced and the bank balance verified with the bank pass 
book daily. At the close of each day's transactions, A.F. 0 1821 A, 
will be completed and transmitted to the command paymaster. 

61. The cashier will send the undermentioned notifications to 
the paymasters concerned : — 

A.F. O 1817. Detail of sums issued on imprest to sub- 
accountants. 

A.F. O 1818. Certificate of payment of bills and claims. 
A.F. O 1820. Detail of sums received on behalf of paymasters. 
At home stations the forms will be dealt with in 



Cash in 
office. 



Lost drafts 
or cheques. 



Lost postal 
jrders. 
A.0.2]3 



1912 



Office 
books. 



Record o£ 
receipts and 
payments. 

A.O. 132 



iyi3 



Notifica- 
tions to 
paymasters. 



the following 



manner : — 



(a.) Sums issued by the cashier on imprest to sub-accoun- 
tants — 

The cashier will prepare A.F. 0 1817 in duplicate and 
forward both copies to the paymaster responsible for the 
accounting of the items. The paymaster will certify one copy 
to show that the amounts have been correctly brought to 



A.O. 132 



1913 



Army Pay Department. 



10 



account and transmit it to the command paymaster of the 
connnand in wliicli the casliier is stationed. 

The command paymaster will prepare, day by clay, separate 
schedules of the forms (A.F. O 1817) for each command, 
and at the end of the month will check the schedules with the 
amounts issued as shown on the casliier's balance sheet 
(A.F. O 1821). He will then annex both schedules and foims 
(A.F. 0 1817) to A.F. O 1821 for transmission to the local 
auditor who will refer to other local auditors for such cro.ss- 
check as may be necessary. 

(b.) Bills or claims passed to the cashier for payment — 

The paymaster will prepare a detail of the bills or claims on 
A.F. 0 1818, in duplicate, and forward both copies to the 
cashier, who, after completing the certificate of payment, will 
return both copies. The paymaster will then transmit one 
copy to the command paymaster of the command in which the 
cashier is stationed, to be dealt with in the manner laid down 
in (a) above. 

(c.) Detail of sums received on behalf of paymastei's — 

The cashier will prepare A.F. 0 1820, in duplicate, and 
forward both copies to the paymaster responsible for the 
accounting of the items. The paymaster will endorse one copy 
to show that the amounts have been correctly brought to 
account, and will transmit it to the command paymaster of 
the command in which the cashier is stationed, to be dealt 
with in the manner laid down in (a) above. 

No trans- 62. Monetary transactions will not take place in the absence 

absence ^of officer of the directing staflF of the office. 

directing 
staff. 

Paid bills to 63. All bills or claims paid by the cashier will be clearly 
be stamped, stamped with the word " Paid " before being returned to the pay- 
masters concerned. 

Despatch of 64. Letters containing drafts, or negotiable documents of any 
letters con- kind, will be closed by an officer who will be responsible for their 
dU'afts^&c. safe transmission to tlie post office. 

Transfer Occasion of a transfer of duties from one cashier to 

of duties, another the certified balance in the bank (after making allowance 
for all outstanding drafts or cheques) will be transferred by the 
outgoing to the incoming cashier, and the outgoing cashier will 
A.0. 240 notify to the bank through the command paymaster the transfer 
1910 of duties, and the name and rank of the cashier who is to succeed 
him. The cash book, duly completed and closed to the time of 
transfer, will be handed over by the outgoing cashier to his 
successor, together with the cash balance, and all official books 
or documents. This should be done in the presence of the com- 
mand paymaster. 

Statement 66. The cashier will render a monthly statement of his receipts 

Oj^^eceipis g^jjjj payments, in the manner laid down in sub-section 6. 

ments. 



11 



Army Pay Department, 



Accounting 
services 
carried out 
by regi- 
mental pay- 
masters. 

A.O. 132 



1913 
A.O. 202 



1913 



5. REOIMENTAL SERVICES, 
(a) General. 

67. At home stations, except as specially provided in para. 15 
for settlement of training grant expenditure, the following 
Accounting Services will be carried out by regimental paymasters: — 

(i.) The compilation of soldiers' accounts on the Dover system 
of payment, including all personal emoluments and 
public stoppages and regimental bills. 

(ii.) Pay of civilian subordinates attached to and paid by units. 

(iii.) Company contingent allowance and postal expenses, allow- 
ances for the repair of accoutrements and funeral 
expenses. 

(iv.) The issue of army reserve pay and pensions, 
(v.) The payment of allotments of pay, separation allowance 

and remittances of soldiers serving abroad, 
(vi.) The issue of the pay and allowances, gratuities and 
bounties due to officers and men of the Special Reserve 
and Territorial Force, inchiding the regular establish- 
ment and permanent statf.* 
(vii.) The issue of regimental allowances and postal expenses 
of the Special Reserve and Territorial Force, and the 
wages of any civilian subordinates attached thereto, 
(viii.) Services performed at units by civilian tailors and 
shoemakers, 
(ix.) Recruiting pay lists, 
(x.) Charges on routes. 
67a. At stations abroad a command paymaster will be responsible 
within his area for all accounting services. 

88. All public charges and credits in respect of services dealt with ^aro'es^and 
by the paymaster will be recorded by him in Army Books 207 (a) oredfts. 
and 208 («), Classified Abstract Books, Receipts and Expenditure. 
The totals of the accounts columns of these books will be carried 
into A.F. N 1506 (General State of Accounts), which will be 
completed and rendered by the paymaster in. the manner laid down 
in sub-section 6. 

69. The paymaster will keep ledgers (Army Books 61, 67, 68 
or 68a, or A.F. N 1527) containing the ledger accounts of sub- 
accountants and all suspense accounts. The ledgers will be retained 
for six years from the date of the last entry therein. 

70. Cancelled. [ a.o. 251 

|; 1911 

71. Imprests of public money to officers acting as sub-account- imprests 
ants will, immediately on notification by the cashiei', be examined 

by the paymaster, who, if he finds an imprest is excessive in amount, services, 
will take such steps as may be desirable to regulate it according to 

• The pay and allowances oi staff officers of Territorial Divisions, 
Brigades, and Coast Defences are issued by command pa3'niasters. 



Army Pay Department. 



12 



A.O. 91^ 

1913 
A.O. 352 

1912 



Payment 
by cashier. 



Company, 
&o., pay 
lists. 

A.O. 132 



1913 



the actual requirenients of the service. He will secure from eub- 
ficcountants the prompt rendering of accounts of receipt and 
expenditure of public nioney. In examining the imprest accounts 
he will see that no excessive balances are lield, and, at least once a 
year, will verify the bank balance of each account with the bank 
pass book. In the case of unexpended ba'ances on imprest 
iccounts of an occasional nature, fi.y., territorial force week-end 
camps, instructional tours, &c., the ))aymaster will request the 
return of the amounts to the cashier before the audit of the 
account is proceeded with. {See para. 298.) 

72. The paymaster will prejiare a detailed li^it, on A..F. O 1818, 
of all claims passed for direct payment by the cashier. He will 
see that such claims are returned to him by the ca.shier after 
payment has been effected. 

(b) Compilation of Company, &c., Pay Liists. 
72a. Except as pi'ovided in paragrajjhs 72b and 72c, the com- 
pilation of soldiers' accounts at home stations will be carried out 
by paymasters in accordance with the following table — 



Arm or Corps. 



Paymasters by whom soldiers' accounts 
will be compiled. 



Housebold Cavalry 

Cavalry of the Liue — 
Dragoon and Lancor regiments 
Hussar regiments 

Eoyal Horse Artillery 

Eoyal Field Artillery 

Eoyal Garrison Artilleiy 

Eoyal Engineers 

Eoyal Flying Corps (Military 
Wing). 

Foot Guards 

Infantry of the Line 

Army Service Corps 

Eoyal Army Medical Corps 

*Army Veterinary Corps 

*Army Ordnance Corps 



Command Paymaster, London District. 

Eegimental Paymaster, Canterbury. 

York. 
Woolwich. 
Woolwich. 
Dover. 
Cliatham. 
Alder shot. 

Command Paymaster, London District. 
Eegimental Paymaster at the Eecord 

Office Station of the unit. 
Eegimental Paymaster, Woolwich.' 

„ „ Aldershot. 

„ „ Woolwich. 

,, ,, Woolwich. 



72b. The pay accounts of soldiers arriving home from abimd 
as invalids, or for discharge or transfer to the reserve, will be sent 
from the station abroad to the paymaster at the station — Netley, 
Woolwich or Gosport — to which the soldiers are sent on dis- 
embarkation ; unless the soldiers are attached to a unit on dis- 
embarkation, in which case their accounts will be included in the 
pay list of that unit. 



* The accounts of soldiers of the Army Veterinary Corps and Army 
Ordnance Corps who are attached to units of other corps for duty will be 
included in the pay lists of the unit to which they are attached. 



13 



Army Pay Department. 



72c The pay accounts of soldiers of the corps of Mihtary 
Police, Military Provost Staff Corps, Corps of Army School- 
masters, Corps of the School of Musketry, and the Army Pay 
Corps • and the pay accounts of soldiers detached from their corps 
for service on the Army Gymnastic Staff, Garrison and District 
Staff, and on the establishment of the various schools will be 
dealt with as follows : — 

(a) When a pay and mess book is kept, by the regimental pay- 
master of the area in which they are quartered; 

(b) When with the approval of the general officer commanding- 
in-chief a pay and mess book is not kept, by the command 
paymaster. ... 

(c) If any of these soldiers are attached to a unit, their accounts 
will be included in the pay list of that unit. 

(d) The pay accounts of the Central Flying School will be com- 
piled by the command paymaster, Salisbury. 

73. The officer in immediate charge of a pay list section of the 
office will, under the general instructions of the paymaster, be 
responsible for the personal direction and superintendence of the 
clerks serving in the section, and will satisfy himself, by a careful 
scrutiny of their work, that the duties assigned to each are 
properly performed. ,t , , , 

74. Compilation, on A.F. N 1505a, of the soldiers ledger 
account and pay list will be proceeded with as early as practicable 
in each month, every man's account being credited with pay up 
to and including the last Friday in the current account period, at 
the rate in force on the last day of the preceding pay list, and with 
any sum due for clothing and kit allowance, 

75. The paymaster is, in accordance with the King's Regula- 
tions, supplied daily with copies (A.F. O 1810) of all regimental 
and corps orders affecting the soldier's pay, service, or documents ; 
and, as these daily orders are received, the soldier's account will 
be credited with any increase of pay or any extra emolument which 
may be due, and debited with the amount of any pay which may 
have been forfeited. 

76. Company, &c., indents for personal clothing and necessaries 
issued on payment will, on receipt by the paymaster, be checked 
with the latest published priced vocabulary, and the amounts due 
from the soldier charged against his ledger account and credited 
to the public. In the case of indents for free issues, the entitlement 
of each man to the issue under the scale laid down in the Clothing 
P.egiilations will be verified, as well as the names, numbers and 
date of enlistment of the men. Charges for fitting and marking 
will, in all cases, be checked with the authorized rates. 

77. The full amount of any stoppage due to the public to 
which a soldier becomes liable either under army regulations, 
sentence of court-martial, or by order of the officer commanding, 
■will be at once charged against him, and credited to the public in 
the company, &c., pay list for the account period in which the 
stoppage is levied. 



A.0. 132 



1913 



Direction, 
of work. 



Soldier's 

pay 

accounts. 
A.0.343 



1913 



Regimental 
orders. 



Clothing 
indents. 



A.O. 352 



1911 



Stoppages 
due to 
public. 



A. 0.343 
1913 



Army Pay Department. 



U 



stoppages 
i\ot. flue to 



Names to be 
struck out 
X)f pay list. 



Kesumption 
of right 
name by 
soldier. 



Units and 
drafts pro- 
ceeding to 
India. 

A.0.343 



1913 



Pay and 
mess book. 



Closing of 
pay list. 



Pay list to 
be sent to 
company, 
&c., com- 
mander. 



78. Any stoppages ordered by a court-martial or by order of 
the officer commanding on account of sums not due to tlie public 
will only be recorded against a soldier as they are recovered The 
sums so recovered will be charged against the soldier in the pay 
and mess book under the head of regimental bills. A similar 
course will be pursued in regard to fines awarded in a civil court 
which have been paid on behalf of a soldier by an officer com- 
manding a company, &c., at his own risk. 

79. The names of all men who, in consequence of transfer. &c 
cease to be entitled to draw pay through the pay list will be sti-uck 
out. i< or the purpose of checking establishments, the name of any 
non-coinmissioued officer temporarily detached may, however be 
retained, but a red ink note will be made to ensure that the charge 
ot pay IS not resumed imtil the nou-commissiuned officer is re-trans- 
lerred into payment. 

80. A copy of the original declaration made by a soldier, who, 
having enlisted under an assumed name, wishes to resume his 
right name, will be annexed as a voucher for the first enti'v of the 
change of name in the pay lists. 

81. When it is known that a unit will proceed to India during 
the month it will probably be found convenient not to credit 
the men's accounts with pay for the whole account period If 
(however, pay is so credited, recovery from the men will be mnde 
for any portion of the period that may be chargeable to Indian 
funds. A similar adjustment will be made in the case of drafts 
proceeding to India. 

82. The pay and mess book (A-F. N 1504a), rendered 
[periodically to the paymaster by company, &c., commanders, will 
contain a detailed record of the transactions between the 
company, &c., commander, and the men, and a general account 
of the cash receipts and expenditure connected therewith. On 
receipt of the pay and mess book, the company cash payments, 
stoppages, and bills will be posted to the debit of each man's 
account in the pay list. The jDaymaster will see that the pay and 
mess book is complete in every particular, and that the totals of 
the cash payments, stoppages and bills agree with the correspond- 
ing figures in the statement of cash received and disbursed by the 
company, &c., commander. 

83. _ The pay list will be balanced and closed each month, if 
I practicable within fifteen days after the end of the period to which 

it relates, and carried into the general summary of pay lists in 
the classified abstract book. 

84. As soon as the balances and rates of pay have been 
brought forward from the closed pay list into the pay list for 

I the current account period, the closed pay list will be sent to the 
company, &c , commander for his guidance in making further 

I cash issues to the soldier, and for the information of each man 
concerned. The paymaster will secure the early return of the 
closed pay list, duly certified as provided for therein, and will 
retain it as a voucher to his accounts. 



15 



Army Pay Department. 



Accounts of men on furlough. 

85. In the case of men granted furlough, pay and ration allow- 
ance will be credited to their accounts only to the end ot thej^^ 
current account period, although the furlough period may extend — --^^ — 
beyond that time. In such circumstances the men's accounts may 
unavoidably show a debtor balance in respect of the pay, &c., 

•issued for any unexpired period of furlough. 

Responsibility in regard to cash payments to the soldier. 

86. The responsibiUty of the paymaster in regard to cash pay- 
ments made to individual soldiers will be limited to seeing that a j^g^jes. 
man's account is not thrown into debt at the end of the account I 
period, and that no cash payments on account of any increase in a, 
man's rate of pay are made by the company, &c., comriiander until 
such increase has been duly placed to the credit of the mans 
account The appearance of a debtor balance in the pay list, 
when it is returned to the company, &c., commander to note, 

will in itself be a notification that the cash issues should be curtailed 
in that particular case, and, if this is not done in the following' 
account period, the paymaster will specially call attention to the 
disregard of regulations on this point (see Pay Warrant). 

Adjustment of a Soldier's Account on Transfer. 

87. When a soldier is transferred to other payment, the Transfer of 
.company, &c., commander will send to the paymaster Ai^y 

J'orm 0 1809 showing the cash issued and the bills and other 
charges incurred up to the date of transfer. The paymaster 

■will at once complete the man's account up to the end ot the 
account period, and balance it by inserting the amount of the| 

>Ci: balance in the " Forfeited Pay " column, or the amount 
of the Dr. balance in the "Pay" column. He will then send 
AF 0 1812, with the balances on the pay account shown, A.o.io? 
in words, as well as in figures, to the paymaster of the man's! ^^n 
new unit, who will insert the man's name in the pay list, 
and the amount of his Cr. balance in the "Pay" column, or the 
amount of his Dr. balance in the "Forfeited Pay" column. Or. 
and Dr balances of men transferred will thus be respectively 
deducted from and added to the total charge for pay m the .pay 
list of the unit from which they are transferred and, conversely, 
will be added to and deducted from the total charge m the pay 
list of the unit to which they are transferred. Any under credits 
or under charges discovered after A.F. 0 1812 has been despatched 
will be adjusted by means of paymasters' advances. The first charge 
of pay after transfer will be made from the first day of the next, 
account period. The A.F. 0 1812 will be transmitted without" 
delay to the man's new officer commanding, for his guidance in 
making cash payments, but should a pay day occur before the 
officer commanding has received A.F. O 1812, the man may be 
paid the normal weekly cash payment for men of his rank. The 



A.0.313 
1913 



Army Pay Department. 



16 



A.0.3<3 
1913 



A.0. 139 
J911 



Abstract of 
rations. 



Accounts 
not pre- 
pared by 
Army Pay 
Depart- 
ment. 



'Procedure 
en soldier's 
discharge or 
transfer to 
reserve. 



A.0.3j3 
1913 



ofticer coniiuiuuimgr will note in the pay and mess book the amoimt 
due to, or from, the ii.an, and the rate of pay, and will immediatelv 
return A.F. 0 1812 to the paymaster. Tlie account of a mar 
I transferred from one company to another of the same unit, or t» 
another unit in the same payment, will be dealt with on s'iraila- 
lines, except chat the balances will be adjusted in the columra 
headed " Contras in soldiers' accounts," and A.F. 0 1812 will not hi 
used. If the final transfer of a man placed on probation for i 
corps dates, under the King's Regulations, from the commencement 
of probation, the accouut will be transferred from such date 

88. In the case of a soldier transferred to take up an appoini- 
ment with a lower rate of pay, or who is in receipt of lane, 
additional, corps or engineer pay, the paymaster making tb 
transfer will recover from the soldier's account ;iny advance (f 
such pay, or difierence of pay, from the date of transfer. N) 
recovery will, however, be necessary as regards corps or enginee- 
pay when the man is not in receipt of service pay, nor of lance 
pay when a vacancy is kept open for the soldier transferred. Ii 
these cases advances may be made for the periods of and under the 
conditions applicable to advances of regimental p&,y. The paymaster 
receiving the transfer will credit the soldier with any difference of 
pay that may become due to him on the pay list of his new unit. 

89. To adjust the abstract of ration-s, the paymaster will enter 
in red ink in the " Forfeited Pay " column o"^f the pay list the 
number of days for which rations should be deducted for men 
transferred out of payment, the corresponding addition being 
similarly shown in the " Pay " column by the paymaster of the 
men's new unit. 

90. When a soldier's accounts are prepared and rendered by an 
officer not belonging to the Army Pay Department, his transfer 
statement of accounts (A.F. 0 1812) will be signed by the officer 
who rendei's his accounts, and forwarded to the paymaster. The 
latter will note the transfer, and, after stamping the document 
with his office stamp transmit it to the paymaster into whose pay- 
ment the soldier is transferred. 

Adjustment of a Soldier's Account on Discharge or Transfer to the 

Army Reserve. 

91. When a soldier is to be discharged, the company, &c., 
commander will, when practicable, render A.F. O 1809 to 
the paymaster, together with the gratuity (or deferred pay) 
claim, seven clear days before the casualty occurs. In the case 
of a soldier who is to be transferred to the army reserve, 
A.F. 0 1814 will be rendered in addition. The soldier's account 
will then be closed by the paymaster, and the balance due to clear 
the account inserted in the form. This will be returned to the 
company, &c., commander, who, after deducting from the balance 
any issue of cash made or stoppages incurred subsequent to the 
rendering of the form to the paymaster, will then pay the man 
and secure his receipt. The form will be forwarded to the 

I paymaster at the end of the account period in support of the entries 



17 



Army Pay Department. 



: in the pay and mess book. In the case of a man discharged by 
purchase, A.F. 0 1809 will not be returned by the paymaster until 
I he receives the cashier's receipt for the purcliase money. 

92. When a man is transferred to the army leserve from the Discharge 
. discharge dep6t, the paymaster of that dep6t will close the man's ^'^P^''- 

. account to date of transfer and notify particulars of emoluments 
to the paymaster paying the reserve of the unit to which the man 
1 elongs. A.F. O 1814 will be used for this purpose and passed 
through the officer i/c records, who will complete the form. 

93. Sums due to or from soldiers after dischai'ge, or transfer to fum™^"e ' 
the reserve, will be dealt with as follows : — after 

(a) Amounts exceeding 5s. due to reservists or men discharged (discharge, 
to pension, and all amounts due to men discharged without 
pension, will be remitted to the men, through the cashier, by 
the paymaster in whose payment they were serving when 
transferred or discharged. 

(6) Amounts of 5s. or less, shown before the despatch of 
A.F. 0 1814 to be due to men transferred to the reserve, will 
be debited to their accounts in the forfeited pay column, and 
the paymaster paying the i-eservists will include such sums in 
the first money orders issued to the men, and, on the classifica- 
tion of the money order account, charge the amounts to Vote 1, 
Eegimental Pay. 

(c) Debtor balances shown, before the despatch of A.F. 0 1814, 
to be due fi'om soldiers transferred to the resferve, will be 
charged by the paymaster to Vote 1, Pay, &c., of army 
reserve, and the paymaster paying the reservists will deduct 
the debt from the man's reserve pay and charge only the net 
amount issued to the man, 

(d) Other sums due to or from soldiers after discharge to pension, 
or transfer to the reserve, will be adjusted between the 
paymaster in whose payment the men were serving, when 
discharged or transferred, and the paymaster issuing the 
pension or reserve pay, by means of paymasters' advances. 



Adjustment of Accounts of Drafts Proceeding Abroad. 

94. In cases of drafts proceeding to India, .A.F. 0 1809 will be 
: rendered to the paymaster seven clear days before embarkation, i^^^ *° 

• or as soon as possible after the men have been detailed, and will 
include the names of " waiting " men. The accounts of these men 
will be made up in pencil on the pay list (including the regulated 

. advance of pay reckoned from the date of embarkation inclusive), i a.0.218 
and the balances due to clear accounts inserted on A.F. 0 1809,1 "1915 
which will be signed by the paymaster, and forwarded to the 

• company, &c., commanders tp enable them to efi^ect a settlement. 
Should any payments have been made, or stoppages incurred, 
after the form has been rendered, the necessary deductions will 
be made by the company, &c., commanders from the balances due, 

: and the net balances disposed of as laid down in paragraph 96. 
' On the draft proceeding, the names of any men who did not 



Army Pay Department. 



18 



A.O. 352 



1911 



Drafts to 
abroad, ex- 
cept India, 



A.O. 71 



1911 
A.0. 107 



1911 

Payment of 
balances. 



A.O. 352 



1911 



Soldiers 
sent liome 
from abroad 
for dis- 
charge, &c. 



embark will be struck out of the form, which will immediately 
be returned to the paymaster to enable the accounts to be 
finally closed, and the necessary ti-ausfer pay documents 
(A.F. 0 1812) to be prepared and forwarded. A nominal ILst will 
be prepared by the officer commaiulinf( for each draft showing the 
names of the men and the amount due to each. Separate nominal 
lists will be prepared in respect of drafts proceeding to different 
destinations. Any forfeitures, fines, or other public stoppages 
incurred subsequent to the closing of A.F. 0 1809 .should at 
once be notitied to the paymaster, who will adjust them as debtor 
balances on transfer, noting the fact on the transfer statement of 
accounts to explain the debt. 

95. When drafts proceed abroad, other than to India, it will 
not be necessary for A.F. 0 1809 to be rendered in advance. 
Company, &c., commanders will, in such cases, calculate approxi- 
mately and enter on a nominal list the amount due to each 
man (including the regulated advance of pay), and will dispose of 
the balances as laid down in paragraph 96. Separate nominal lists 
will be prepared in respect of drafts proceeding to different destina- 
tions. The paymaster will complete the accounts up to the end 
of the account period in which the draft proceeds, in the manner 
laid down in para. 87. 

95a. When it is uncertain to what company, &c., the soldiers 
forming a draft will be posted, a separate A.F. O 1812 will be 
made out for each man. 

96. The net balances due to the men will as a rule be handed 
■to the officer commanding the draft, but if the amount is incon- 
■Ycniently large the whole or a portion of it may be remitted by 
paymaster's advances to the paymaster, Netley, who will hand the 
money over on board the ship at Southampton. The paymaster s 
advances should be sent in time to reach Netley not later than the 
second post of the day prior to the sailing of the ship. The officer 
commanding the draft will give a receipt on A.F. O 1809 for the 
amount actually handed over to him by the company, &c., com- 
mander. Any payments made to the men during the joui-ney 
will be recorded on the nominal lists and supported by the men's 
receipts. The nominal lists (together with the balances remaining 
unpaid at the end of the journey), will be handed over to the 
company, &c., commander concerned, who will cause them to be 
receipted by the men and returned to the officers commanding the 
companies, &c., from which the men proceeded, to support the 
charges in the home accounts. 

Adjustment of a Soldier's xiccount on proceedvig home from Abroad, 
for Discharge, Transfer to the Reserve, or Invaiided. 
£7. In the case of men sent home from abroad for discharge, 
transfer to the array reserve, or invalided, A.F. 0 1809 will be 
rendered to the paymaster seven clear days before embarkation, 
or as soon as possible after the men have been detailed. The 
accounts of these men will be made up in pencil in the pay list 
(including the recovery of any pay, &a, that may have been 



Army Pay Department. 



edited beyond the date of transfer, or the period of advance, 
lien authorised), and the balances due to clear the accounts 

•serted on A.F. O 1809, which will be signed by the paymaster, 
id forwarded to the company, &c., commanders to enable them to 
feet a settlement. At the same time A.F. 0 1812 will be prepared 
T the paymaster on the assumption that the balances on A.F. 
1809 will have been paid to the men before embarkation, and 
ill at once be forwarded to the paymaster of the station to which 
e men proceed for discharge. As soon as the men have embarked, 

>separate acquittance roll on A.F. N 1510 for the balances paid to 

".em will be furnished by company, &c., commanders to the pay- 
aster, who will thereupon forward to the paymaster, to whom 
.F. O 1812 has been sent, a list of any unpaid balances, also of 
ly forfeitures, fines, or other public stoppages that may have been 
curred subsequent to the despatch of the A.F. O 1812. These 
edits or debts should be adjusted by means of paymasters' 

ilvances. A separate A.F. 0 1812 will be made out for each man.j. 

ildiers temporarily attached to other units, Schools of Instruction, t&c. 
i 98. Except as provided for detached soldiers in paragraph 72c, Men 
ildiers at home stations temporarily attached to other units, &c., 
- ill be retained in the payment of their own units. The com- 
iny, &c., commander will prepare and transmit at the time the 
'Idier proceed.s, a detachment pay sheet (A.F. N 1510) for the 
mrrent account period (and an additional pay sheet for each 
;count period during which the absence is likely to continue) to 
le Company, &c., commander to which he is to be attached. 
The detachment pay-sheet will show the date of the soldier's 
>st pay-day, and the total weekly amount due during the period 
■ attachment. His company, &c., commander will also notify 
ly stoppages or claims for which the soldier may subsequently 
3come liable, in order that the cash payments may be regulated 
3cordingly. The company, &c., commander to which the soldier 
attached will make payments based on this information, and 
iill furnish to his own paymaster, at the end of the account 
ariod or immediately on the soldier ceasing to be attached, par-' 
culars on the detachment pay-sheet of the amount due for cash 
lyments and stoppages. The paymaster will credit the company, 
c, commander with the total amount and charge it in the pay 
)lumn, at the same time forwarding the detachment pay-sheet 
ad Army Foi-m 0 1823 to the paymaster of the unit to which the 
'.)ldier belongs. The latter paymaster will deduct the amount in 
. le " foi-feited pay " column, and will then return the counterfoil, 
mly completed, to the jjaymaster from whom it was received. The 
laymaster despatching Army Form O 1823 will, in all cases, watch 
lad secure the return of the counterfoil. 

! 98a. At stations abroad the accounts of soldiers temporarily 
ttached to other units, &c., will be dealt with as provided in para- 
raph 98, unless the absence is expected to continue beyond one 
lonth, when the transfer will be carried out in accordance with 
aragi-aph 87. 



A.O.107 
1911 



attached to 
other units 

A.0. 132 



1913 



A.0..343 



1913 



A.0. 1,32 



1913 



Army Pay Department. 



Men rejoin- 
ing from 
desertion, 



Balances of Men Rejoining from Desertion or Discovered to hav 
FraaduLently ±!nlisted. 

99. When a soldier rejoins from desertion or is discovered t< 
have fraudulently enlisted, any Dr. balance shown to have beei 
incurred prior to his desertion or fraudulent enlistment will, if h 
rejoins from desertion, or is discovered to have fraudule/itl 
enlisted, within three years of the date of the olfence, be chargec 
against him in the pay list and credited to the public. When th 
re-charge of a CV. balance is admissible under the provisions of tht 
regulations under the Regimental Debts Act, 1893, the charge maj 
be made without previous reference to the War Office and shouk 
be supported by a statement showing — 

(1) On what date the man deserted. 

(2) On what date the man was apprehended, or gave himseL 
up as a deserter ; or, if he has fraudulently enlisted, or 
what date such fraudulent enlistment was detected. 

(3) What are the debts (if any) due by the man to (a) the 
public ; (6) the troop, squadron, battery, or company 
commander ; (c) to any other persons. 

(4) In what account the balance was credited to the public. 

Debts of Men relegated from Navy or Marines, or vice versd. 

100. In the case of a man relegated to the army from the Eoyai 
Navy or Royal Marines and vice vosd, the amount of his debt on 
transfer (excluding any expenses incurred in his apprehension 
should at once be charged against him and paid over to 
the Admiralty, or recovered from the Admiralty and credited to 
the public, as the case may be. When a deserter from the Royal 
Navy, or Royal Marines, who has enlisted in the army, and 
vice versd, is not claimed for service under his previous engagement, 
his debt at the time of desertion should be similarly dealt with. 
Whenever possible, the necessary adjustment will be made locally 
between the paymasters of the servicets concerned. In the event 
of there being no n.aval paymaster available, the army paymaster 
will report the case to the War Office for adjustment. 

Bation Abstracts. 

Men 101. The names of soldiers attached to a company for rations, 

attached for j^^j. f^^. p^y^ (jg entered on a separate page, or pages, at the 
ra ions. Form 1 of the pay and mess book, and the company in whose 

payment they are will be clearly stated. On receipt of the pay and 
mess book, the paymaster will secure the necessary adjustments 
for men in his own payment. He will prepare A.F. P 1950 for 
any of the men who are not in his payment and forward it to the 
paymaster concerned, who will acknowledge the issue of rations 
and certify that they are duly accounted for. 
■Q^^Xon The ration abstract will be completed by the paymaster, 

abstr^t. to whom the company, &c., commander will render with his 



Men rele- 
gated from 
army to 
navy, and 
vice versa. 



and mess book the certificates of rations issued on A.F. 
^43. On the pay list being forwarded to the company, &c., 
iJiimander for signature, all vouchers relating to the ration 
titract, including those for hospital stoppages, will accompany 
,jo as to enable the company, &c., commander to verify the 
±vact. After being checked, the A.F. F 743 will be initialed 
1 forwarded to the local auditor of the command in which 
rations were issued, or to the War Ofhce, as the case may 



Army Pay Department 



Balances due to Soldiers at dose of Financial Year. 

COS. The total of the balances due to soldiers ou their accounts 
the last pay day of the financial year, as shown by each company, 
, pay list for the account period ending in March, wdl be 
idited to the public by the paymaster in his account for that 
•iod, under tlie heading of the Pay Votes concerned, and charged 
the' charge suspense account. The amount so credited will be 
tharge.l by the paymaster in his account for the account 
riod^ending in April, and the charge suspense account corres- 
mdingly relieved. 



Unit proceeding to or from a Station Abroad ( except India). 

[104. "When a unit proceeds to or from a station abroad or 
mm one station abroad to another, it will be taken into payment 
the new station from the first day of the account period in which 
embarks. 

■105. The company, &c., pay lists for the current account period 
,11 be completed to the date on which the nnit embarks, and 
ill be forwarded to the paymaster of the new station accompanied 
' (1) a certificate that the names, ranks, regimental numbers, 
ates of enlistment, rates of pay, and balances have been correctly 
■ought forward from the closed piy lists for the previous account 
criod ; (2) the pay lists of the previous account period, if the unit 
lould move before such pay lists can be furnished by the paymaster 
enable the men to see their accounts ; and (3) copies of the ledger 
;counts of each company, &c., commander from the first day of the 
;count period in which the transfer takes place. 
.106. The net balance on the accounts will be adjusted by the 
•■ laymasters concerned by means of paymasters' advances, 
i 107. The accounts of " details " left behmd on the transfer of a 
nit will be completed at the new station np to the end of the 
:count period in which the move takes place, in the manuer 
lid down for ordinary transfers. 

108. When a unit is only temporarily detached from its stationj 
will remain in the piyment of the paymaster of that station. 



Soldiers' 
balances at 
close of 
financial 
year. 

A.O. 34.3 



1913 



A.O. 132 



1913 

Date of new 
payment of 
unit. 

A.O. 313 



1913 

Transfer of 
pay lists. 



Adjust- 
ments of 
balances. 
Accounts of 
details. 



Unit tem- 
porarily 
detached. 



Army Pay Department. 



Payment on 
voyage. 



Adjustment 
of claims 
and 
* accounts. 



A.O. 267 

1912 
A.O. 107 

1910 



Units proceeding to or from India in ordinary course of relief a, 

Indian expense. 

109. Detailed information relating to the payment of frnn 
preparation of pay lists, &c., for the period of tKyage to or fr. 
India at Indian expen.ge, is contained in Appendix II 

110 Adjustment of accounts, claims, &c., in respect of peric 
undlv''- embarkation for India, will be made 

(a) Company, &c., commanders will render to the paymast 
ot the station from which they proceed a.s .soon 
possible after embarkation, pay and mess books for 
preceding the date of embarkation. 

(6) The paymaster will in due course forward to the officer coi 
niandmg the unit a balance sheet (A.F. N 1501) .showr 
the net amount due to or by each squadron or compai 
commander. ^ ' 

(c) If the balance sheet shows a net balance due to i, 
paymaster, he will include the amount of such balance 
his charge suspense account, forwarding the neces.sary pa 
ticulars to the officer commanding concerned, with a reque 
that authority may be given to charge the amount acrain 
the Indian Government. Any correspondence neeessai 
to clear the amounts in suspense will be conducted by tl 
paymaster direct with the officer commanding. In tl 
event of failure to recover, the question of responsibilil 
or write-off will be settled locally. On receipt of tl 
authority from India, the charge suspense account will I 
adjusted accordingly. 

{d) If the balance sheet shows a net balance due from the pa^ 
master, the amount will be remitted to India in the usu; 
manner. 

(e) The paymaster will adjust, and recover from the unit, tl 
amount of any claim against the unit received after 
embarkation for India. 



it 



Voyage 

pay. 



Pay and 
mess books. 



Units proceeding to or from India as special Lido-Colonial reliefs 

Imperial expense. 

111. Whenever special reliefs between a colonyaud India are to b 
made at Imperial expense, a notification will be sent by the Wa 
Office. The voyage pay is chargeable against Imperial" funds, (a 
during the voyage to India, to date of disembarkation ; {b) durini 
the voyage from India, from the date of embarkation. The voyag 
period counts as British, and not Indian, service for deferred pa^ 
and j^ension purposes. 

lis. When the unit proceeds from a colony to India, the pay auc 
mess books for the voyage' period will be rendered to the paymastei 

whom the unit was paid before embarkation. These pay and mesf 
books will be prepared on A.F. N 1504a, one pay and mess booi 
being rendered for each company for the period co'mmencing on the 



Army Pay Department. 



1913 
A.0. 1117 



191U 

A.0.291 
1911 



aav of the account period in which the company embarks^and 
no-'onthe day of disembarkation. A nominal roll (A.i. U 
,.,L 3)°will be prepared and dealt with in the manner laid down m j 

%'wi^^Suni? proceeds from India to a colony, the oo^^^^ 
^v &c pay and mess books from the date of embarkation will [from India, 
.•endered to the paymaster of the colony l.o which the unit is a.0.139 
ijg moved. ^^^^ 
,egimental Claims : Officers of the regular estabUshment ot|^__8_ 

th.e Special Reserve. • j — — - — 

' 17 Claims for pay (when not drawn through the regimental Pa:yment of 
, mts) command pay, extra-duty pay, and mess, lodging, and 

.claims . 

" or allowances due to officers of the regular establishment of ^,o.i32 
^~Special Reserve, will, on receipt from the officers responsible! -^-^ 
•the collection and transmission of the claims, be examined 
'the paymaster and stamped and certified as directed in para. 
• and passed to the cashier for payment of such sums as may be 
i" In the case of light allowance the certificate ot each 
Jiividual officer concerned that light in kind was not received 
I , I not be required, the certificate of the O.C. on A.F. P 1934 
J), i.Qg sufficient. 

{d) Separation Allowance and AUotments of Pay. 

118 Paymasters concerned will issue separation allowance and Payment of 
. timent? of pay to soldiers' families, in accordance with the -pa^at,- 
t Lxowance Regulations and Pay Warrant. ments"*"" 
^. (e) Special Reserve and Territorial Force. 

m 1.19. The issue of pay, &c., due to officers and men of the Special j^^^^ 
^serve and Territorial Force is provided for in the Special Reserve pay, &c., of 
li the Territorial Force Regulations. Accounts rendered to ^ve'^^l^^^^ 
:vmasters by sub-accountants in respect of these services will Territorial 
eexamined, and any necessary adjustments made, witli bhe least Force, 
gsible delay. I A.0.132 

a20. Cancelled. ' 1913 

•7) Pensions,* Army Reserve Pay, Special Reservists' Non- 
laining Bounties, and General Instructions relating thereto. 

Pensions to Soldiees, &c. 
^, Mode of Payment. 

4 S121. Pensioners (other than warrant officers, schoolmistresses, pensioners 
pj Id nurses) residing in the United Kingdom will be paid by the 
f.ymasters shown in paragraph 122 by means of army money 
Iders, unless the total sum to be paid amounts to more than ^40, 



: For regulations as to issue of officers' halt-pay, retired pay, gratuities, rewards for 
tinguished or meritorious service and wound pensions, as well as pensions to tlie 
nilies of officers, warrant officers, non-commissioned officers and men, ««« A">^y 
uncil's instructions on Pay Warrant. The rules laid down m the Pay Warrant 
11 also govern the issue of any superannuation allowance. 



Army Pay Department. 



A.0. 132 



1913 



in which case the issue will be made through the cashier of 
command. Pensions granted to soldiers' widows and children \ 
be dealt with similarly. 

122. 



Begiment or corps from 
which pensioned. 



Designation and station of 
paymaster. 



Household Cavalry 

(Hussars 
Dragoons 
Lancers... 
Yeomanry 

Eoyal Horse Artillery 

Eoyal Field Artillery 

Eoyal Garrison Artillery 
Eoyal Engineers 

(Eoyal Flying Corps (Military 
Wing) 

Foot Guards 

Infantry regiments of the Line, 
including the corresponding 
old numerical regiments 

Men pensioned from the Army 
Eeserve, Special Eeserve, &c. 
(who will be distributed accord- 
ing to the regiments with 
which they last served) 

King's Eoyal Eifle Corps 

Eifle Brigade 

Army Service Corps 

Army Ordnance Corps ... 

Eoyal Army Medical Corps 

Army Veterinary Corps 

Military Police ... 

Military Provost Staff Corps, 
Eoyal Military College 

Irregular and Colonial Corps . . . 

Army Pay Corps ... 

The following miscellaneous es- 
tablishments : — Military Staff 
Clerks ; Schoolmasters who are 
not Warrant Officers ; School 
of Musketry 



Command Paymaster, Lon( 

District. 
Eegimental Paymaster, Yoi 

IEegimental Paymaster, Cam 
bury. 

\ Eegimental Paymaster, 

J wich. 
Eegimental Paymaster, Dov 
Eegimental Paymaster, CI 
ham. 

( Eegimental Paymaster, Ale 
\ shot. 
Command Paymaster, Lon 
District. 



Eegimental Paymaster at 
cord Office Station. 



Eegimental Paymaster, V 
/ Chester. 
T_ Eegimental Paymaster, W 
J wich. 

Eegimental Paymaster, Al 
shot. 

Eegimental Paymaster, W 
wich. 

Eegimental Paymaster, Al 
shot. 



Eegimental Paymaster, W 
^ wich. 



Army Pay Department. 

53. Pensioners residing abroad will be paid either in cash or by ^^''^"^^^"jj'o^ 
ae, di-aft, or post office order, by the officers detailed below : — 
South Africa, by the Paymaster Paying Pensioners and 
rvists, Pretoria. 

Egypt, by the command paymaster. 

other colonies where there is an army p^iymaster, by such 
aaster. 

Canada, by the Officer Paying Pensions, Ottawa, Ontario. • 
Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand, British Honduras, 
land Islands, Barbados, and St. Helena, by the Colonial or 
3 Treasurer, as the case may be. 
. Fiji, by the Governor. 

British Guiana, by the Government Secretary, Georgetown, 
i the Bahamas, by the Registrar of Records, Nassau. 
I all other We.-t Indian Islands (except Jamaica) by the 
nial Treasurer, Barbados. 

I India, by the Controller of Military Accounts of eadi command, 
3r instructions which will be sent tlirough the India Office. 
i!44. Army pensioners permitted to receive their pensions while Pensioners 
^' laing out of His Majesty's dominions will be paid by the British '^^^^^'^"^ 
?sul of the district in which they reside, under special authority how to be 
1 the War Office. 

J5. Pensions issued by army paymasters abroad will be charged Pay list: 
lae form of pay list, A.F. N 1537. . 
46. The charge for the pension of a soldier issued in India or m ^"^^''fp^^'"'' 
sr British possessions will be vouched by a declaration of issuer! 
iitity on A.F. 0 1697 (or " Canada Form 6 " for payments in the ^^'^^^^'^^ 
luinion). One declaration will be sufficient in the case of a supported, 
sioner who is also in receipt of an annuity or a Victoria Cross 
sion. The form should be amended for use by any annuitant 
) is not also a Chelsea pensioner. . ^ . 

127. The payment of pensions will be made in the following 

aner : — . , i • j 

iliers' pensions awarded by Quarterly, in advance, as laid 

lie Commissioners of Chelsea down in the Pay Warrant. 
Hospital. 

■isious to soldiers' widows and Fortnightly, in advance, as laid 

, hildren. down in the Pay Warrant, 

rritorious service rewards .... Quarterly, in arrear, and to date 

of death only. 

•;toria Cross pensions Ditto. 

Iditional pensions for gallant Quarterly, in advance, as laid 

'.onduct. down in the Pay Warrant. 



Exc&X)ttO'il8 ' 

bVen periods and special pay- See paras. 128 and 129 (and the 
ments. Pay Warrant), 

natic pensioners in care of See para. 168. 

i2a In cases, however, of temporary pensions contimied or made Broken 
rmanent, at the original rate, the portion to the date ot expuy 
111 be issued at the daily rate, and from the date of renewal to 



Army Pay Department. 



the end of the quarter the balance of the fixed quarterly rate vr 
be paid. Men awaiting admission to in-pension, who are pa 
monthly, will receive for each of the first two months of t 
quarter pension at the daily rate, and, for the third month, tc 
balance of the quarterly rate., Pensioners in the employment 
the General Post Office will, on transfer from the payment of th 
depai'tment, be paid at the daily rate for the remainder of t 
quavter. Pensioners who are under forfeiture of pension for ai 
cause will receive the balance of the quarterly rate after 
deduction at the daily rate has been made. 

129. Pensioners may be paid monthly in all cases in which th. 
desire to be so paid, or where, owing to representations made " 
responsible persons, it is considered that monthly payments wotj 
be to a pensioner's advantage. In cases in which pensioners a 
unable to make a satisfactory use of their pensions unless paid 
them in weekly sums, the money orders may, subject to 
pensioner's written consent to the arrangement, be issued quartei 
to some responsible person willing to undertake payment of 
pension by weekly instalments. 



Monthly, 
&c., pay- 
ments. 



Authorltiyi 
for first 
issue of 
pension. 



Advance of 
pension and 
public debts 
to be 

recovered. 

Pensioner's 
first pay- 
ment : 
United 
Kingdom, 



Proceedings on first application for Pension. 

130. Instructions for the payment of pensions or gratuit 
awarded to soldiers will be issued by the Commissioners of Chelf 
Hospital on A.F. D 400 or other authority. Payment of pensic 
or gratuities to soldiers' widows and children will be made 
special authority from the War Office. The reversion of an 
pensioner of Chelsea or Kilmainham Hospital to out-pension 
be notified by the Commissioners of Chelsea Hospital, wh( 
a;uthority will be the voucher in support of the charge in the adv 
bst. 

131. The paymaster making payment will adjust any advar 
of pension paid to the discharged soldier and will m:ike t 
necessary Arrangements for I'ecovering any sum due from, h 
on account of public debts. 

13.2. A soldier newly admitted to pension will be notified of 
award by the Commissioners of Chelsea Hospital. The Co 
mis.sioners will also furnish the man with A.F. D 453, to 
completed and forwarded by 'him to the paymaster who 
to pay the pension. On receipt of this document the p; 
master will forward: to him his certificate of identity (A.F. D 4 
on which each space not required will be marked " Cancelled," an 
notice paper (A.F. D 449), and will issue a money order to him 
the amount of pension due.. When aiDplicatioii is made on behal 
an insane pensioner, the person responsible for his maintena 
should be furnished by the paymaster with A.F. D 453, and- 
usual procedure should then be followed, except that A.F. O, 
should be substituted for the form of life certificate. Slio 
A.F. D 400 not have been received by the paymaster, he 
at once report the application to Clielsea Hospital, stating 
corps in which the applicant last served, and the date of 
confirmation of his discliarge. 



Army Pay Department. 



to 



333. When application is made by a pensioner in Canada for the ^^J^^f^'^'' """^ 
■ t payment of his pension, the officer paying pensions will British 
/■ward to him blank forms of certificate of identity and life possessions, 
tificate (Canada Forms 8 and 6). On receipt of these forms 
pperly completed, the officer will forward the man a cheque for 
: amount of his pension. With the first cheque sent to the man 
;accoimt of his pension, the officer will forward a blank form 
:.ife certificate for use in the quarter succeeding that for which 
: payment is made, a certificate of identity (A.F. D 452), and 
otice paper (A.F. D 449). In the case of pensioners residing 
ather British possessions, the procedure laid down in para. 132 
uld be followed as far as possible, A.Fs. 0 1697 and D 452 
mg used. 

T7'ansfer. 

[£34. A pensioner who applies to be transferred from or to the ^PPj^^^; 
i ited Kingdom, or between one colony or foreign country and 

transfer 

Other, will, if married, be required by the paymaster who issues '^^^"^'^ 

pension to state whether he will be accompanied by his wife and Khlgdom, 
.lily, and, if not, what arrangements have been made for their &c. 
oport. If the paymaster receives a satisfactory explanation on 
dse points, he will recover the man's identity and life certificates, 
11 prepare a transfer certificate (A.F. 0 1710) in duplicate. If 
• : pensioner has assented to a voluntary allowance for the support 
ihis family, a note will be made on the transfer certificate showing 
11 particulars of the deduction to which the pension is subject, 
ee paymaster will inform the pensioner by what officer his 
:jasion will be paid in the country to which he is proceeding and 
it;truct him to communicate with that officer immediately on his 
lival. 

1135. In the case of men under 50 years of age who wish to pro- 
wd to a foreign country, permission must be obtained from the 
lar Office before the transfer is carried out. 

1186. The transfer certificates, together with the descriptive ^^^^f^^^^es, 
r.urn on A.F. D 400, will be forwarded by the paymaster to the &c., dis- 
mr Office, except in the case of inter-colonial transfers, in which P^^^°J^ °i 
'a transfer documents will be forwarded direct from one colony to 

€e other. In case of a transfer to India, a transfer certificate in 
j^druplicate, and a flescriptive return in duplicate!, will be required, 
le descriptive return and duplicate transfer certificate will be 
iinsmitted by the War Office to the paymaster by whom the next 
yment is to be made. .,, Trnnsferbf 



A.O.202 



1913 



yment is to oe maae. Trnnsferbf 
1137. Pensioners employed under the General Post Office will paryment to 
t -Jeive their pensions with their pay. On receipt from that depart- g'jrom 
' ■ int of a notification of a man's employment, steps will at once be postoiiice. 
ken to carry out the transfer of payment on A.F. O 1708, and an 
ry of the transfer will be made in Section IV. of A.F. D 408. 
iien the man vacates his employment the last pay certificate 
ceived from the General Post Office will constitute the voucher 
i support of the charge in the advice list. 



Army Pay Department. 



2 



Application 
for admis- 
sion. 



Advances 
on emigra- 
tion. 

A.0.171 



1910 



Commuta- 
tion of 
pension. 



ar 



Admission to Chelsea or KUmainham Hospital. 

138. Any application on behalf of a pensioner for admission 
in-pension will be forwarded to the secretary of Chelsea or Ki 
mainham Hospital, as the case may be. Before recommending tl 
case, the paymaster will ascertain that the applicant has no wife 
children depending upon him for support, and will state the fa 
in the application. If the applicant is selected for admission, ] 
pension will be issued monthly in advance until he is admitted. 

Advances on Emigration and Commutations of Pension. 

139. An advance of pension may be allowed to pensioners wl 
re about to emigrate in order to become settlers in a Bri ' 

possession out of the United Kingdom. No advance can 
allowed to a pensioner proceeding to a foieign country or to 
Pensioner who returns to the United Kingdom and wishes to 
out again to a colony. To a permanent pensioner an advance 
six months' pension may be given ; to a temporary pen.sioner ; 
advance for not more than nine months of the unexpired term of 1 
pension ; in either case the advance is in addition to the pensi( 
for the quarter in which it is made. Evei-y advance should 
carefully recordetl against a pensioner's name in A-F. N 1534 ai 
A.F. D 400. No advance of the annuity for distinguished condii 
or meritorious service or Victoria Cross pension awarded under t 
Pay Warrant should be made in any circumstances. 

140. Advances of pension under paragraph 139 are made 
assist pensioners who are likely to be suitable emigrants, have 
genuine intention of settling in a colony, and have a fair prospc 
of bettering themselves and their families by doing so. 

No advance of pension will be made until the paymaster is 
possession of the documents and information referred to in A. 
D 410. He will then exercise his discretion as to allowing t 
advance. 

141. To enable the pensioner to receive the advance, 
paymaster will forward to him a certificate of identity on A. 
D 460. 

142. A pensioner, desiring to commute any part of his pension, 
accordance with the provisions of tho Pay Warrant, will app 
through the paymaster paying his pension, who will forward t 
application direct to the Secretary, Royal Hospital, Chelsea, S.W 



Allotments 
of pension : 
temporary 
separation. 



Wlien 
separated 
from family 
perma- 
nently. 



Allotment of Pension. 

143. Any pensioner who wishes to allot his pension, or a porti 
thereof, for the support of his family during his absence wi 
leave from the United Kingdom for a limited period, must si 
a request to that effect before leaving the kingdom. 

144. When the separation of a pensioner from his wife a 
family is likely to be permanent, the paymaster will inquire ii 
the circumstances of the case and suggest to the pensioner 
allowance of a fair amount of relief, tiiking into consideration 
causes of separation and the capability of the respective parties 



!9 



Army Pay Department. 



abour for their own maintenance. The amount so fixed should 
lot exceed the proportion of the pension which can be attached 
!mder Act 47 and 48 Vict., c. 55, and the corre-^jjonding article of 
he Pay Warrant, or the usual rate of relief allowed by the 
jarish to out-door paupers similarly situated. 

145. In oases dealt with under paragraphs 143 and 144 J'^J^ ^^^^^^^ 
;he pensioner will forward, each quarter, a duly completed lite 

poertilicate, on the prescribed form, dated not earlier than the first 
Plav of the quarter, and the paymaster will not make any issue of 
he pension until he has received such certificate. The necessaiy 
Amendment in the form of life certificate will be made by the 
■paymaster before it is despatched to the pensioner. 

Arrears and Forfeiture of Pension. 

146. In the case of a newly admitted pensioner who does not Neglect to 
l\apply for payment or to have his pension documents transferred, payment. 

within six months from the date of admission, the paymaster will 
make enquiries at the last known address, and, if the man cannot 
be found, will transmit the documents to the War Ofiice, and make 
:the necessarv entry in his casualty return (A.F. D 408). The 
q^same course 'will be followed in the case of (a) pensioners who 
j! hhave neglected to draw their pensions for four successive quarters, 
ti aand {h) pensioners transferred from other distucts who do not 

napplv for payment within twelve months. ■ , . , 

e 147. A pensioner who, after having once drawn pension, has ^^^^^f-^ °* 
ve tneglectedto apply for payment during the current quarter, may be 
« fpafd the arrears in the following quarter, provided he can furnish 
\l satisfactory reason for not having applied for payment or 
fforwarded his life certificate. If he has neglected to do so 
ffor any period between six and twelve months, he mu^t furnish 
< satisfactory certificates showing the manner in which his 
ttime has been occupied during such period; and such certifa- 
ccates will be retained to vouch the payment of tli£ arrears, 
I unless the retention of the certificates by the pensioner is indis- 
t pensable to his obtaining employment, when a statement certitying 
tthat the requisite documents have been produced, an<l that tliey 
J satisfactorily account for the pensioner's occupation during the period 
( of his absence will be substituted therefor. If a distinguished or 
I meritorious service annuitant or a Victoria Cross pensioner neglects 
t to forward his life cei-tificate for a period exceeding six months, 
, enquiry should be made, and the result reported to fclje War Ofiice ^^^^^^^^^ 
148. A pensioner whose name has been struck on tne pay iisi 

pension pay 

. on account of neglect to draw his pension for four successive y,,,_ 
( quarters will not be restored without special authority from ttie 
I general officer in charge of adrainist.ation of the command i iis 
• will not be given until the man has been specially identified by 
I means of A.F. D 415 and has furnished a statutory dec aration 
( (A.F. D 465 adapted), supported by such docunientary evidence as 
he can produce, satisfactorily accouniing for ihe employment o 
1 his thne since he was last paid, and explaining why he has neglected 
1 to apply for his pension. If the pensioner has committed any 



Army Pay Department. 



Arriving 
destitute 
from sea. 



Conviction 
to be re- 
ported to 
Chelsea. 



ofifence wliich would render him liable to forfeiture of pension tlie 
case will be reported to Chelsea Hospibil after his name is replaced 
on the pay list, and before any issue is made. If he lias been 
an inmate of a workhouse or lunatic asylum during the three 
years prior to the date of liis ajjplication, no issue of pension will be 
made until it has been ascertained whether the guardians or othei- 
authority have a claim against it. Not more than three yeai-s' 
arrears fronf date of application will be allowed in these cases. 
The names of pensioners restored to the pay list under this para- 
graph will be entered at the foot of Section II of A.F. D 408, 
the authority of the general otlicer for the restoration being retained 
as a voucher in support of the first charge of pension. 

149. An army pensioner who has been at sea, and who, on 
arriving in a seaport town, is in a destitute state, may be paid 
arrears of pension, extending over a period of not more than a 
yeai\ if he can prove to the satisfaction of the paymaster that 
he has been employed during the whole of the time in a British 
ship. 

150. Should the paymaster become aware of the conviction of 
a pensioner, or of any other circumstance which may involve 
liability to forfeiture under the Pay Warrant, he will at once 
report the matter to the Commissioners of Chelsea Hospital, and 
will suspend the issue of pension, until the decision of the Com- 
missioners has been notified to him. 



Parochial 
claims ; 
authority 
for stop- 
pages from 
pensions ; 
appeals. 



Notification 

required 

from 

guardians. 



Payment of 
claims. 



Paupers {including Pauper and Criminal Lunatics). 

151. Stoppages from pension for the maintenance b}^ pa'rocliial 
authorities of a pensioner, or of his wife or family, will be made under 
the Pensions and Yeomaniy Pay Act, 1884, and the Pay Warrant. 
Should the pensioner appeal against the stoppage for the main- 
tenance of his wife on the ground of her profligacy, it will rest 
with him to produce the necessarj^ evidence of misconduct, and 
such evidence will be forwarded by the paymaster to the War OlBce 
with his report upon the case. 

152. Guardians of parishes must send a notification of theu- 
claims to the paymaster in whose payment the men ai'e, at least 
three weeks before the end of the quai-ter, and if the amount due is 
not notified by the end of the quarter, the men will receive their 
full pensions. In any case, however, in which it is known that 
the pensioner or his wife or family has been chargeable to the 
guardians for some considei-able time, and the notification of claim 
is not received by the end of the quarter, the paymaster will, 
before issuing the pension in full to the man, enquire of the 
guardians whether they have any claim on the pension. In the 
event of a pensioner continuing in receipt of parish relief beyond 
the 15th day of the last month of the quarter, the deduction from 
his pension on account of such relief will be calculated as if he 
I'emained chargeable to the end of the quarter. 

153. Parochial claims will not be paid until the 15th day of the 
first month in the quarter, so as to give the pensioner time to 
appeal in the event of an overcharge. 



■31 



Army Pay Department; 



154. Kepayment for parochial relief can only be claimed from 
the pension for the quarter succeeding that in respect to which 

claims from 

-such relief has been given, and no arrears can be charged against pension, 
.pension which may subsequently accrue. B.g. a charge for main- 
I tenance during any period of March quarter must be defrayed out 
.of the pension for June quarter only. If, however, a pensioner 
\who has been granted a temporary pension is insane at the time of 
(■expiration of the pension, and any balance of pension exists through 
tthe operation of the foregoing provision, such balance will be 
rregarded as available for issue to the guardians to whom he is 
cchargeable, towards meeting the cost of his maintenance for ai 
1 period subsequent to that for which it was last paid. Repayment 
[for parochial relief is not claimable from a distinguished or 
I meritorious service annuity or Victoria Cross pension. 

155 Guardians of parishes may claim repayment in respect of Claims 
tthe maintenance of a Special Campaign pensioner in the Workhouse, 
iiu accordance with paras. 151-154, provided that they consent to Campaign 
-.allow the man a minimum snm of 2s. Od. a week, to spend as he Pensions. 
I may think fit. Such sum will be issued by the paymaster quarterly 
iin advance direct to the pensioner ; or the full amount of the pension 
tmay be paid to the guardians, if they give an undertaking to issue 
! thestipulated allowance themselves in weekly instalments to the man. 
r Special Campaign pensions are not subject to any stoppage in 
I respect of parochial relief granted to the wives or children of such 

■ ^^156°"should a Special Campaign pensioner become an inmate of Sp^j,^!'^,' 
; a lunatic a.=!ylum, his pension will not be payable in respect of the pensioners- 
. cost of his maintenance therein. If, however, the pensioner has a in lunatic 

wife, or other dependent relatives, the pension may be disposed of '^^y 
; as laid down in paragraphs 166 and 167, less any reduction required 

under paragraphs 159-161. 

157. Every payment to a union for the maintenance of a "^oijcher; 
• pensioner, or of his wife or children, will be vouched by a state- 
ment on A.F. 0 1805. - „„^i,, 

158. Whenever the parochial authorities forego their claim m ^ar^mai 
f&Tour of the pensioner's wife or family, the payment of the pension abandonedi 
may be made in advance to the wife or family, as the case may be, but in favour 
the life certificate must be dated not earlier than the first day of family, 
the quarter to which the payment relates. 

159. Under the Superannuation Act, 1887, when a Government Stoppages 
contribution is claimable towards the maintenance of pauper 

pensions. 

lunatics, their pensions must be reduced by an equivalent amount, 
whether the Guardians actually claim the contribution or not. 

160. The reduction of pension will be made as follows :— "a^es. 
*(«) In England and' Wales : at the rate of 4s. a week m every 

case in which the net charge on the Guardians {i.e., the difference 

* In cases in wl.icli the ui,t charge on the Guarrtians (as oalcnlatod above) 
is loss than 4.,. or 3s. Od. a week, but in wliich the Govcnnnont Oont^-ibution 
is nevortholcss intended to be claimed, the pensions must also be reduced by 
an amount equivalent to the contribution. 



Army Pay Department. 



32 



Reduction 
of pension ; 
how 

efEected. 



Pension less 
tlian contri- 
bution. 



Pensions of 
lunatics un- 
claimed. 



Issue to 

parochial 

authorities. 



between tlie gross cost of maintenance and the full amount of 
pension) equals or exceeds the above sum. 

(6) In Scotland : at the rate at which tlie lunacy grant for the 
previous year was actually issued in each case. In tlie month of 
October in each year the rate of the grant then about to be issued, 
which will govern the reduction of pension from the l^t January 
following, will be ascertained by the paymaster from the Seci-etary 
of the Local Government Board, Edinburgh. In the ca.ses of 
men uewiy admitted to asylums, the reduction of jjensiou will 
be assessed upon an amount equal to that of the net charge 
upon the Parish Couucil, as defined in paragraph 160 (a), and 
will be calculated at the rate per £ of such net charge at which 
the grant for the previous year was generally di.stributed. This 
rate will be furnished by the Local Government Boai-d, Edinburgh, 
on application. The stoppages at these rates will be final. 

*(c) In Ireland : in every case in which the net charge on the 
Asylum Authorities, calculated as in paragiapli 160 (a) equals or 
exceeds 4s. a week for a pensioner confined in a County or District 
Lunatic Asylum, or 3s. 6d. a week if confined in an Auxiliary 
Lunatic Asylum. The reduction of pension will be made at 
the rate of half the net charge, not exceeding 4s. a week in the 
former case or 2s. a week in the latter. 

(d) The cases of criminal lunatics will be dealt with under 
special instructions from the War Office. 

161. The reduction will be effected quarterly in a>lvanco from the 
first day of the quarter following the date of the man's admission ro 
the asylum ; or in advance to the end of the quarter from the date of 
admission, if the pension has not already been issued beyond that 
date. The reduction will not be required beyond the date of the 
pensioner's death or of his discharge from the asylum. 

162. In cases in which the amount of the pension is less than 
the amount of the contribution, the pension will cease to be issu- 
able. Enquiries should, however, be made on the 1st April in 
each year, in order to ai^certain whether the pensioner is still living. 

163. In cases in which pensions of lunatics are unclaimed, the 
amounts should be entered in A. F. D 409, pending a claim from the 
Guardians or deiiendent relatives. Enquiries as to the pensioners' 
existence will also be made as imiicated in ])aragraph 162. 

164. The amounts of pension withheld under the foregoing 
instructions will be entered quarterly in A.F. N 1533, but will not 
be credited to any head of service in the accounts. 

165. After making any reduction which may be required, the 
pension, or so much thereof as may be necessary, may be paid (as 
laid down in par^graphs 151 to "l54) to the local authority at 
whose charge tlie pensioner is maintained, towards defraying tlie 
cost of his maintenance over and above the amount of the Govern- 
ment contribution. 

• In cases iu which the net charge on tlio Guardians (as calculated above) 
is less than 4s. or .^s. (W. a wook, but in which tho Government Contribution 
is nevertheless intended to be claimed, the pensions must also bo reduced by 
an amount equivalent to the contribution. 



33 Army Pa y Department. 

166. Any balance of pension still remaining due may be issued Toreiativea. 
to the pensioner's wife or dependent relatives as the case may be. 

When not so issued, the balance should be shown as a credit to 
the pensioner's estate, on A.F. D 409. Should the Guardians 
forego their claim, the pension (less any reduction required under 
paragraphs 159 to 161) will be similarly dealt with. 

167. The charge in the advice lists will be supported by a state- 
ment of claim and the two certificates ou A.F. 0 1805. The 
medical certificate must show that the pensioner was alive in the 
quarter to which the payment relates. 

Lunatics who are not Paupers. 
163. The pension of a man sufi"ering from mental infirmity, may, ^ij^^^j^^ig^g 
if he is not a pauper inmate of a lunatic asylum, &c., in Great 
Britain or Ireland, be paid in arrear to his relatives or other 
persons in whose charge he is placed. The paymaster will require 
the production of a medical certificate at the end of each quarter, 
showing that the pensioner was alive, and unable by reason of 
mental disability to manage his affairs during the period for which 
payment is claimed, and will satisfy himself from time to time 
that the pension is properly applied. The declaration and life 
certificate on A.F. D 448 if in the United Kingdom, on Canada 
Form 6, if in the Dominion of Canada, or on A.F. O 1697, if m 
another' colony or India, will also be required in support of these 
payments. 'Ihe declaration must be signed by the person 
responsible fur the pensioner's maintenance, the requisite verbal 
amendments in the form being made by the paymaster before it 
is sent out. The charge must be vouched by the medical certifi- 
cate and the declaration and life certificate. 

169. If it should appear in any case that payment in arrear Special 
would inflict undue h^irdship on the pensioner's relatives or 
friends, the facts should be reported to the War Office for special 
consideration. 

Stoppages for the Support of Wives and Families. 
(Indudinq those residiiig in Jndia.) 

170. Stoppages made from the pension of a Chelsea pensioner ^^oppage. 
paid m the colonies, for the support of his wife or family at home colonies, 
or in another colony, will be dealt with in accordance with the 

rules for remittances of pa^' from abroad. . , . storiwes 

171. Stoppages from a pensioner at a home station tor the support, 

made at 

of his wife or family abroad (including India) should be entered home, 
separately ou the stoppage return (A.F. N 1533), and detailed 
in addition on A.b\ O 1706. The latter Form as soon 
as proof of the pensioner's existence on the first day ot the 
quarter has been received, should be forwarded separately to the 
paymaster or other accuntaut in a colony, or to the Controller ot 
MiHtary Accounts in India, as the case may be. 

Pensions to Widows and Children of Soldiers. 

172. The payment of pensions awarded by the War Office to 
widows and children of soldiers will be subject to the general 

(b 10853) ° 



Army Pay Department. 



Hecoveries. 



Re- 
man iage. 



Children's 
pensions ; 
cessation. 



Life 

certiticates. 



Children in 
orphanage, 



Children 
chargeable 
to parish. 

Reductidji 
of pension. 



Action on 
receipt of 
death cer- 
tificate. 



Death certi- 
ficate to he 
obtained. 



rules in these regulations and in the Pay Warrant, so far as tliey 
are applicable. The mode of payment is shown in paragraph 127. 

173. No recoveries in adjustment of previous ovei'-issues ■will 
be made from the pensions of widows and children of soldiers 
until the facts of each case have been reported to the War Office 
for consideration, and authority for a recovery is given by the War 
Office. 

174. The gratuity payable to a widow on remarriage should be 
calculated on the widow's rate of pension alone. The i.ssue of the 
children's pensions is not affected by the remarriage. 

175. Children's pensions are ifssuable to the date inclusive on 
which they attain the limit of age. They cease to be payable if 
the children are admitted to the Duke of York's Royal Military 
School, the Eoyal Hibernian Military School, or the Queen Victoria 
School ; or if, being over the age of 6 years, they are admitted to an 
.Industrial School or to an orphanage receiving a Government con- 
.tribution towards the maintenance of the inmates. 

176. Life certificates will be required only once a quarter, the 
blank forms being sent out with the money orders for the last 
•payment in the second month of the quarter. 

177. When the life certificate shows that the children are being 
maintained in a charitable institution, it will be ascertained 
whether the authorities of the institution require the pension in 
aid of the children's maintenance. If not required, the case will 
be, referred to the War Office. 

178. If a child for whom a double pension has been authorized 
should become chargeable to the parish, the pension must be 
reduced to the single rate while so chargeable. 

179. The pension of a child who becomes entitled to separation 
or subsistence allowance in consequence of the mother having re- 
married a soldier must be reduced by an amount equivalent to 
such allowance. 

Cessatian o f Pension on Death. 

180. Immediately upon the receipt from the War Office of a 
registrar's certificate of the death of a pensioner in the United 
Kingdom, or from a Colonial Registrar-General of the notification 
of the death of a pensioner abroad, the paymaster will stop all 
issue of pension beyond the date up t(t which such pension may be 
payable. He will also note the date of the death against the 
pensioner's name in A.F. N 1534 or A .F.N 1537, as the case may be. 

.181. Should ihe paymaster become aware of the death of a 
pensioner in his payment before receiving official notification, ihe 
will at once procure a certificate of death on A.F. O 1707 from 
one of the persons named on that form, at the same time noting 
the casualty, .as directed in the previous, paragraph. If the death 
took ])lace at home, the paymaster will forward the certificate to the 
War Office with A.F. D 408 (monthly casualty return) ; if abroad, 
the certificate should be forwarded with the quarterly ciisualty 
■return. No charge will be allowed for such certificates, unless 
■specially authorized. 



35 



Army Pay Department 



Payments for Death Certificates. 

182. On the receipt from the War Office of the certificate of a ^Ift^'''^''^ 
registrar at hoaie of the death of a pensioner, the paymaster will cerUficate 
pay the usual fee to the registrar by whom the certificate is signed, at home. 
The charge of the amount in his accounts will be supported by the 

death certificate and by proof of payment. 

Applicatimi o f Balance of Pension of Deceased Pensioners. 

183. The balance of pension that may be due to the end of the 
quarter in which the death of a pensioner occui's, or any balance of baianrp of 
Qieritorious service or other annuity, will be paid to the grantee pension, 
of probate or letters of administration if' representation to the 

estate is taken out. If neither probate nor administration is taken 
out, the amount available, if not exceeding £100, will, in the 
ordinary course, be disposed of as follows : — 

(1) In the first place it will be applied in repayment of the 
expenses of the deceased's funeral, if such expenses have 
not been defrayed out of funds belonging to his estate ; 
and in the second place it will be applied in satisfaction 
of the claim, if any, of tile guardians of the poor (or, in 
Scotland, of the local authority charged with the relief of 
the poor) on account of any expense incurred by them in 
respect of his maintenance or relief, to the extent of one 
year's arrears preceding the date of death, or', if' he was a 
lunatic, in satisfaction of the claim, if' any, of the 
guardians or local authority or institution or person that 
maintained him for the expenses of his maintenance or 
incidental expenses, to the extent of 6 years' ai-rears pre- 
ceding the date of death. Provided always that if the 
pensioner leave dependent upon hini a widow or legitimate 
children or other near relative, no payment shall be made 
to the guardians or local authority (or, in the case of a 
pauper lunatic in Ireland, to the asylum), and provided 
also that any claim for the sick-bed expenses of the 
deceased payable under sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) below 
shall be satisfied in preference to the claim of the 
guardians or local authority (or, in the case of a pauper 
lunatic in Ireland, of the asylum) in respect of main- 
tenance or relief. 

(2) ; The sick-bed expenses of the deceased if not. defrayed by 

the guardians or local authority (or, in the case of a 
pauper lunatic in Ireland, by the asylum) or any debts of 
the pensioner that may be claimed, may be paid out of 
the sum due to him, 'provided in either case that the 
written consent or request of any one of the persons 
beneficially entitled to the personal estate of the deceased 
as mentioned in sub-paragraph (3) is received. 

(3) Any residue will be paid to or among the persons bene- 

ficially entitled under the deceased's will, if any, or, in 
ca,se of intestacy, under the Statutes of Dietributiori or 

(10853) ^ 2 



Army Pay Department 



30 



other law applicable to the domicile of the deceajSed * 
In determining the proportions in which or the bene- 
ficiaries to whom such payment shonld be made, regard 
may be had to any expenses incurred by any such persons 
in respect of the maintenance or sick-bed expenses of tlie 
deceased, or in payment of the deceased's debts. 
(4^ In the case of its appearing that the deceased pensioner 
was of illegitimate birth, or that he leaves illegitimate 
children, then, provided that he leaves no widow or 
leo-itimate children, and that he died intestate, the case 
wfll be referred to the War Office for decision as to the 
disposal of the money under the regulations made by 
the Secretary of State in virtue of Section 4 of the 
Pensions and" Yeomanry Pay Act, 1884. 
(5) If the persons beneticiallv entitled refuse their consent to 
any proper ])ayments under sub-paragraph (2), or if there 
are circumstalices of unusual complication in the case, or 
other special reason, the War Office will be referred 
to for decision as to whether probate or administration 
should be insisted upon, or as to what other action should 

be taken. , , • . r 

(G) All payments will be vouched by the receipts ot the 
payees. These vouchers, \vith the written consent of a 
beuedciary to anv payment made under sub- paragraph (2) 
above, and a statement si i owing the degi-ees of relationship 
of the persons among whom the residue is distributed, 
will be annexed to the summary of stoppages on A.l*. 
N 1533, or to the pay list on A.F. N 1537, as the case 

may be. . , . . u <. f 

(7) In any case in which a balance of pension due to the estate 
of a" deceased pensioner remains unpaid, a report giving 
paiticulars of the case and showing what amount was due 
to the pensioner's estate, and the payments, if any, luaoe 
on account thereof, will be rendered to the N\ar Olface. 
Pending receipt of War Office instructions, no further 
action will be taken w ith a view tu disposal of the Ijal^"^- 
A note that the mattt-r has been referred to the War 
Office will be made on A.F. D 409. 
Death 184. If a newly- admitted pensioner dies before any pension has 

before any issued to him, no payment on account thereof will be made 

until the death has been reported to the War Office, and special 
authority is received to issue any balance that may be due. 



A.O. 291 
1911 



• Attention is drawn to the fact that the estates of persons legally domici ed 
In Scotland, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, or Malta, are distnbutahle 
according to the \n.yyB of those places Attention is also drawn o ^''^ In- 
testates' Estates Act, 18!)0 and the Intestate Husband's Lstate (bcotland) 
Act 1911 (the latter l aving effect from 18th August. 191 1). which give the 
whJle property of an intestate to the widow when there is no issue, and the 
not value does not exceed 500/. 



37 



Army Pay Department. 



Returns. 

185. A return of tl\e pensions which have been wholly or partially Absentees, 
unclaimed during the quarter will be kept by the paymaster on 
4. F D 409. This return should be annexed to the vouchers for 
the third month of the quarter. Returns of casualties, &c., among Casualties, 
pensioners will be forwarded to the War Othce through the local 
auditor by the paying officer at home on A.F. D 408, abroad on 
A.F. D 414. 

Pat of Apmy Reserve. 
Mode of Payment. 

186 Men of the Army Reserve residing in the United Kingdom Reservists 
will be paid by the paymasters detailed below, by means of army 
money orders, except when cash payments are specially authorized 
in these Instructions — ^ 



Regiment or corps. 



Designation and station of 
paymaster. 



Household Cavalry 

^ , c f Hussars 
Cavalry of I 

the Line I Lancers 

Royal Horse Artillery 

Royal Field Artillery 

Riding Establishment, 

Artillery 

Mountain Artillery " 

Royal Garrison Artillery ; Royal 
Artillery District Staff ; School 
of Gunnery ; Artillery cleiks. 
Royal Engineers 



1913 



Royal 



Royal Flying 

Wing). 
Foot Guards 



Corps (Military 



Infantry Regiments of the Line , 

King's Royal Rifles 

Rifle Brigade 

Army Service Corps 

Anny Ordnance Corps 

Army Veterinary Corps .... 

Army Pay Corps 

Royal Army Medical Corps 
Military Police 

(10853) 



Command Paymaster, London 
District. 

Regimental Paymaster, York. 
"1 Regimental Paymaster, j A-O- i^z 

J Canterbury. ' 

1 

I Regimental Paymaster, 
j Woolwich. 

I Regimental Paymaster, Dover. 

\ Regimental Paymaster, Chat- 
/ haln. 
Regimental Paymaster, Alder- 
shot. 

Command Paymaster, London 

District. 
Regimental Paymaster at 
Record Office Station. 
"1 Regimental Paymaster, Win- 
J Chester. 

Regimental Paymaster, Wool- 
wich. 

\ Regimental Paymaster, Alder- 
J shot. 

■ ' o~3 



Army Pay Department. 



38 



Reaervistd 187. Tlie pay of the Army Reserve permitted to I'esidein colonies 
colonies &c. depeurlencies wliere Bi itiah troops are stationed will be issued 
by- the local paymastei-,* and the charge for the same (except in 
tiie case of men paid in Canada by cheque) will be vouched by a 
declaration of identity on A. F. O 1696. Iji Dominions, colonies, 



A.O. 240 



&c., where British troops are not stationed, pay will be issued as 
shown in the foDowincj table : — 



1910 



Dominion, Colon}% or 
Protectorate. 



Official charged 
with the payment of 
Eeservists. 



Addresses to which 
all communications 
should be sent. 



A FRIO A 

British East Africa 

Nyassaland 

Gambia 

Gold Coast Colony 

Northern Nigeria 
Southern „ 
Somaliland 
Uganda 

AUSTIIAIIA. 

'New South Wales 
Queensland 
South Australia ... 

Tasmania 

Victoria 

West Australia ... 



Canada 

Newfoundland 
New Zealand 
Bahamas 

West Indies. 

iBarbados 

Grenada 

Leeward Islands... 

St. Lucia 

St. Vincent 
Trinidad 



British Guiana ... 

„ Honduras... 
Falkland Islands... 

Fiji 

St. Helena 

Seychelles ... 
Woi-liai-wci 



Treasurer 



Financial Commissioner 
Treasurer 



State Treasurer 



Ofificer paying Imperial 

Pensions. 
Minister of Finance 



I Eegistrar of Kecords 



Colonial Treasurer 



Receiver-General 

Treasurer 

i» ' • . 

Eeceivcr-General 
Colonial Treasurer 
Treasurer 

Command Paymaster 



Nairobi. 

Zoniba. 

Bathurst. 

Treasury Dept., Accra, 

G.c.c: 

Zuugeru, N.N. 
Lagos, S.N. 
Berbera. 

Entebbe, Uganda. 



Sydney. 

Brisbane. 

Adelaide. 

Hobart. 

Melbourne. 

Perth. 

Ottawa. 

St. John's. 

Wellington. 

Nassau. 



Barbados. 



Georgetown, 

Guiana. 
Belize. 
Stanley. 
Suva. 
St. Helena. 
Seychelles. 
North Cliin.i. 



British. 



• liesorvists in any part of South Africa will be paid by the paymaster 
paying ponsioners and reservists, Pretoria. 



39 



Army Pay Department. 



188. The pay of the Army Reserve is issuable in an-ear, as laid 
down in the Pay Warrant. 



Proceedings on Transfer or Enrolment. 

189. On receipt of A.F. 0 1814 the reservist's name, &c., will be 
entered on A.F. N 1534 in the order prescribed by paragraph 232. 
Immediately after notation A.F. O 1814 will be forwarded to the 
officer i/c records concerned for comparison with A.F. B 2056. 
Immediate steps should be taken to correct discrepancies. A.F. 
0 1814 will be retained by the officer i/c records unless or until 
the reservist has reported himself on A.F. D 424, when both forms, 
together with an identity certificate completed as regards the 
3rd page, will be passed to the paymaster. 

190. Each man on reporting himself on transfer to Section B, 
pr on enrolment for Section A or D, will be furnished by the 
paymaster charged with his payment with an identity certificate 
on Avhich the spaces not required to be used will be cancelled, 
a life certificate and A.F. D 449 instructing him as to the mode of 
his payment. 

191. The date on which a man reports himself on transfer to. the 
Reserve will be stated by the paymaster, in i^ed ink, on the face of 
the man's statement of accounts (A.F. 0 1814). 

191a. A.F. O 1814 will show the rate of pay admissible in the 
event of mobilization and in the case of every soldier transferred to 
the reserve at home will, when the transfer is completed, be held 
by the paymaster for use in the event of mobilization. On the 
termination of a reservist's engagement his A.F. O 1814 will be 
passed to the officer i/c records for retention with the discharge 
. documents. 

19S. When a man joins Section B from Section A, the paymaster 
will at once pay any balance due to him. When issuing such 
balance, the paymaster will instruct the man to return his identity 
certiticate, and immediately on its receipt will furnish him with an 
identity certiticate in exchange. 

193. When a man of Section A has reported himself on enrol- 
ment, the money orders for his Section A pay will be made 
payable at the post office named on his report (A;F. D 424), 
on the first day of the month following that m which he is 
enrolled, and of each succeeding month until a quarterly lite 
certificate has become due from him. 

193a. The first issue of reserve pay on transfer will not be made 
by the paymaster until A.F. 0 1814 certified by the officer i/c 
records has been received. The first issue for a man enrolled in 
Section A or enlisted or re-engaged for Section D, other than on 
transfer direct from the Colours, will not be made imtd the mans 
• original documents have been seen by the paymaster to whom 
4hey will be passed by the officer i/c records for that purpose. 

(10853) ^ ^ 



A.O. 107 



1910 



A.0.25-t 



19U 



A.O. 72 



19U 



Certificates 
on enrol- 
ment, &c., 
in Army 
lleserve. 



Date of 
reporting. 



Pay on 
mobiliza- 
tion. 

A.O. 72 



1914 



Balance of 
pay on 
joining 
Section B. 



First issues 
of Section A 

pay- 



IFirst issues 
of reserve . 
pay, on 
transfer. 



A.O.llH 



1914 



Army Pay Department. 



40 



Balance of 
pay on 
retransfer 
to the 
Colours. 



A.O. 72 



1914 



Reservists 
employed 
under 
General 
Post Office. 



Pioceediiigs on Retransfer to t/ie Colours, <&c. 

194. Wlien a reservist rejoins the Colours the balance of reserve 
pay due to him up to and for the day preceding that on which he 
so rejoins Avill be credited to him in tlie pay-list of the company 
which he joins on the notification of the payma-ster in whose pay- 
ment he was as a reservist to the pa> mat-ter into Avhose payment 
jhe comes as a soldier. The man's A.F. 0 1814 adapted as required 
'will be used as a transfer statements of accounts. The man will 
be required to produce, if possible, his identity certificate, blank 
form of life certificate, and parchment reserve certificate. 

Reservists employed under General Post Office. 

195. Keservists employed under the Geneial Post Office will 
receive their reserve pay with their wages. On receipt from that 
department of a notification of the man's employment, steps will 
at once be taken to carry out the transfer on A.F. O 1708, and when 
the reservist vacates liis employment, the last pay-certificate 
received from the General Post Office will constitute the voucher 
in support of the charge in the advice list. On the first day of 
each quarter, the paymaster will send to the War Office a return 
showing all casualties during the preceding quarter which atfect 
the pay of reservists employed under the General Post Office ; e.g., 
date of transfer to General Post Office employment and whether 
belonging to Section A or Section B, date of expiration of service 
or of leaving (leneral Post Office employment, date of change from 
Section A to Seci ion B, or vice versa, &c. 

Reservists permitted to proceed to take up residence 
in a colony. 

198a. a transfer statement of accounts (A.F. 0 1710) for each 
man permitted to take up residence in a colony will be sent to the 
official charged with the payment of resei vists in the colony 
concerned. A.F. O 1814 will be retained in the pay office at home 
until the date of expiration of the man's engagement. 

Forfeiture of Pay. 

196. On the receipt of a notification of the forfeiture of a 
reservist's pay, or of his conviction and imprisonment, the 
paymaster will immediately record against the man's name, in 
A.F. N 1534, the period during whicli pay has been forfeited. 

Rewards and Fees for Copies of Conviction. 

copies of l^'''- '^'^^ claimed under the Eeserve Forces Act for the copy 
conviction, of the conviction of a reservist for felony or other offences will be 
admitted as a charge against the public if supported by the 
justices' clerk's receipt. 
Reward for 198. The payment of a reward for the conviction of an absentee 
conviction. ^^.^^^ ^.j^^ Reserve will be supported by A.F. 0 1618 and by proof 
of payment. 



Transfer 
statement 
of accounts. 

A.O 72 



1914 



Record nf 
forfeiture 
cf pay 



Fee for 



41 Army Pay Department. 

Lunatics. 

199. Any balance of pay due to lunatic reservists at the date 

Imlance of 

of their discharge from the Eeserve as medically unfit for further pay 
service may be paid to their wives or dependent relatives or • 
persons support! ns the lunatics, or, if none such exist, to the 
•<ruardians or other local authority responsible for their main- 
tenance provided the usual certificates of life and disability (A.i. 
O 1805)' are furnished, and the receipts of such persons or 
authorities may be accepted as legal acquittances. 

Cessation of Pay on Death. 

... £ .1 J * Pay to be 

200 Upon receipt of a registrar's certihcate ot the deatli ot a stopped, 
reservist, or should a paymaster become otherwise aware of such 
death, all issue of pay beyond the date of death will be stopped, 

and the death will be noted in A.F. N 1534. ■, ^ tDeathcerti- 

201 Should a paymaster become aware of the deatli oi aL^jj^je. 
reservist in his payment for whom he has not received a registrar s| ^ p 
death certificate lie will act as directed in paragraphs 181 and 200. j 1910 

Payments for Death Certificates. 

202 Payment to registrars at home for death and identity certi- f^^^^"^" 
ficates of resei'vists will be charged in the accounts, and vouched by 

proof of payment. 

Application of Balance due on Death. M d in 

203 In the absence of probate or letters of administration, the 
balance of reserve pay that may be due to the date of death of a 
reservist, will, provided that the amount under the control of the 
SecretaiT of State does not exceed 100^., be applied as directed m 
the case, of pensions in paragraph 183. 

Reservists becoming Non-Effective. 
204. When a reservist dies, is discharged, or is struck off strength Becommg 
on account of absence, his name should be ruled out of A.fc. tj.e. 
N 1534. 

Advance of Pay, £c., to Men Relegated to the Army Reserve. . 
205 The amount of pay advanced by the governor of a civil Adv-nc- . 
prfson to a ma\ on relegatU to ^--^^^^X^^"^^^^^^^^ 
Lproperly enUstiBg, and the su^ 'iT^:^^;^;^^^::: 

who i^lS w hts^ P^^^^^^ I- a'military prison 

who IS charged witn 1 ^ governor's accounts. Charges 

the .amounts wi 1 be ^^arged m tne g ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ 



Army Pay Department. 



42 



of plain clothes and the amount of the Dr. balance (if any) due to 
the unit from wliich he is relegated. In any case where these 
sums could not be wholly recovered, the paymaster will at once 
notify to the governor of the military prison, or tlie commandant 
of the detention barracks in which the man is confined, the amount 
which may be advanced. 

206. The advance of pay under the Army Reserve Regulations 
made to a man who, after improper enlistment, is relegated to the 
Reserve direct from his corps, will, subject to paragraph 205, be 
made by the paymaster paying the corps in which the man is- 
serving at the time. The officer commanding the corps with which 
the man is serving will forward to the jsaymaster a memorandum 
showing the unit from which the man was originally transferred 
to the Reserve and the name under which he served. 

207. The paymaster making the advance will prepare two 
statements of accounts and will note on them the number of days- 
pay issued, the corps in which the man served previously to his 
transfer to the Reserve, and the name under which he served in 
that corps. 

208. The amount of the advance will be charged by the 
paymaster who made the issue, under the head of pay of Army 
Resem'-e, the charge being supported by one of the two statements 
of accounts and the man's receipt. The other statement of accounts 
will be transmitted to the paymaster pajang the reserve of the corps 
to which the man beloiigs. 

209. The paymaster paying the Reserve will take the man into 
payment from the day following that to which the advance ex- 
tends, and will recover the value of any plain clothes issned to 
him on relegation to the Reserve, together with any Dr. balance 
due under paragraph 396. 



Advance of 
pay on 
being sent 
back direct 
from corps. 



Advance to 
be noted on 
statement 
of accounts. 



How to be 
charged,' 



Recom- 
mencement 
of reserve 
pay- 



Fee for 
medical 
examina- 
tion of 
reservist. 
A.O. 213 



1912. 



Fee for Medical Examination. 

210. The fee payable on the medical examination of a resei'vist 
will be charged in the accounts of the command paymaster of the 
command in which the man is examined, and vouched by the medical 
officers receipt, on which will be shown the name of the man and 
the regiment to which he belongs. 



Mode of 
issue. 



Forms of 
identity 
certificate. 



Special Reserve ; Non-Training Bounties. 

211. The non-training bounties payable to special reservists 
will be issued in the manner laid down in the Regulations for the 
Special Reserve. 

General Instructions. 
Life and Identity Certificates^ 

212. The following are the forms of identity certificate : — 

Pensionere in the United Kingdom — A.F. D 446. 
Pensioned widows and children of soldiere — A.F. D 457. 
Pensioners residing out of the United Kingdom — A.F. D 452. 



43 Army Pay Department. 

Army reservists in the United Kingdom— in Section A, A.F. 

D 468, in Section B, or D, A.F. D 461. For final or single 

payments, A.F. D 466. 
Arm^^ reservists in Canada — Canada Form 14. 
Special reservists — A.F. D 477. 

For payments to other persons than the army reservist or 

pensioner himself— A.F. D 447. 
For advances of pension or commutation money — A.F. D 460. 

213. Identity certificates will be kept under lock and key, and P^^^^^^j °^ 
the key will not be entrusted to the custody of any person not certificates, 
belonging to the directing staff of the office. The rules for the 

issue of money order forms laid down in paragraph 251 will apply 
also to the issue of identity certificates. 

214. An identity certificate and a money order issued in favour ^^o^^^^j^^^^ 
of the same person will be despatched in separate envelopes and by 

diiferent posts. , , . ^ . n^i„„<o. 

215. In Canada, Canada Form 14 will be kept by the reservist m- ^oio^^eB. 
his own possession, and must be produced every quarter for the 
inspection of the person who signs the life certificate. With each 
cheque will be forwarded a life certificate for use by the reservist 

in the quarter succeeding that for which payment is made. pp„,i„„er 

216. A pensioner residing out of the United Kingdom wdl be l^^^^'' 
furnished with an identity certificate (A.F. D 452) by the officer abroad, 
charged with the payment of his pension. The. certificate will be 

kept by the pensioner in his own possession and will be produced 
every quarter for the inspection of the person who signs his Jite 
■certificate. . r=,g 

217. The following are the forms of hfe certificate in use :— certificates. 

Pensioners in the United Kingdom— A.F. D 448. 

Pensioners paid by General Post Office— A.F. D 448a. 

Pensioned families of N.C.Os. and men— AF. D 456. 

Certificate of school attendance of children— A. D 4/3 

Pensioned children (of soldiers) in employment— A.J^. 1)4/4. 

Pensioned children (of soldiers) under school age— A.jb . IJ 47&. 

Pensioned motherless children of N.C.Os. and men— A.l. i) 478. 

Pensioners in Canada— Canada Form 6. 

Army reservists in the United Kingdom— A.i^. U 4(d^. 

Army reservists in Canada — Canada Form 15. 

Special reservists — A.F. D 476. 

218. The blank form of life certificate will, before issue, be Life certm^^^ 
marked with the number of the identity certificate. . One , f 
..Snrof life certificate will be -ffici*^^* in the case of a p— 

or reservist who is also in receipt of an annuity or Victoria Cross 
pension. The form should be amended for use by any amuutant 
who is not also a Chelsea pensioner or a I'.eservist. Lifecerti- 

219. AVhen the life certificates come ^liey sho Id at o^^^^^^ 
examined. Those which are unsatisfactory should be returned tor ,„,„a. 
ameTdment, and the remainder arranged in the order in which the t.oaof. 
,men's names appear in A.F. N 1534, N 1537, or N 1492. 



Army Pay Department. 



44 



Signatures 
on life 
certificates. 

A.O. 322 



1911 



Life 

certificates 
signed by 
prison and 
asylum 
autliorities. 

Suspicion of 

money 

being 

borrowed on 
certificates . 



Completion 
of life 
certificates 
and blanlc 
forms. 



Certificates 
lost or 
improperly 
disposed of 



Issue of 

duplicate 

certificates 

when 

originals 

lost, &c. 

A.O. 355 
1912 



219a. The signatures f>f pensioners upon life certificates should 
be carefully cnmi)aretl witli the signatures upon the descriptive 
returns (A..F. I) 400) rendered at the time of their discharge.* 
Should the paymaster doubt the authenticity of the signature upon 
a life, certiiicate. he will make no further issue of pension pending 
enquiry. 

220. No life certificate signed by any officer of a prison or 
lunatic asylum should be accepted until it has been a.scertained 
whether the person to whom the certificate applies is an innuite or 
employee of such prison or asylum. 

221. Should it appear that a reservist or pensioner lias 
borrowed money on the security of one or more of his certificates, 
the paymaster will, before making any further issue to him, call 
upon him to produce his identity certificate for inspection, and to 
furnish an explanation of the circumstances. 

222. The form of life certificate must be properly completed 
before the army money order for reserve pay, pension, or non- 
training bounty, is issued. A blank form of life certificate for use 
in .the succeeding quarter will be forwarded by the paymaster, 
together with the army money order ^or cheque, in Canada) for 
each quarter's pay or pension, or, in the case of a man of Section A 
of the Army lleserve, with that for the third month of each 
quarter. A blank form of life certificate will similarly be forwarded 
to special reservists for use in claiming the second and third pay- 
ments of non-training bounty. 

223. When a reservist, pensionei', or other pei'son entitled to 
payment, loses, improperly parts with, pledges, or deposits his 
certificate of identity or form of life ceitificate, he will be 
required, before a new ceitificate is supplied to him, to make a 
statement of the circumstances in which he has lost or parted with 
it, and of the steps he has taken to recover it, by declaration 
under Section 18 of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1835, and will be 
warned that, if the declaration so made shall be false or untrue 
in any material particular, he is liable to be indicted for perjury. 
This declaration is to be made upon A. h\ D 465 before a justice of 
the peace, or other officer authorized by law to administer an oath. 

224. If a reservist or special reservist loses his identity or 
life certificate, the application for the replacement of the lost 
jdocuraentwill be transmitted by the paymaster to the man's com- 
jmanding officer, together with (a) the declaration specified in para- 
graph 223 ; and (b) a statement showing the date up to which the 
man has been paid, and \vhether he h;is cashed the army money order 
jlast issued to him. The officer commanding will then, if he thinks 
proper, authorize the issue of a fresh certificate. In the ciise of a 
pensioner, or other ])erson entitled to payment of })en&ion, the pay- 
master will, in all ordinary cases, issue a fresh certificate, provided 
that the declaration is satisfactory. Except in cases in which the 



A.O. 322 
1911 



• The system of including on A.F. D 400 a statoinont signed by the soldier 
ivas introduced ou the revised form, promulgated by Army Order '27 of 1911. 



Army Pay Department. 

45 ^ \ 

If f>PvH floater is inexcvisa,ble, the issue of 

loss or ?.«,«truct.ou ^^^^^^^ j,^^^, „f p,y or 

new .certificates wx^l^^^^^^^ inexcusable carelessness 

pension will not be ^le'ayea. determined by the 

1— ££^ - 

the matter will '<^P°V. „r special reservist, and to Chelsea &c. 
in the case o£ a reservist or ^P^^^^^ ''^^^^^ ofVn ^^^^^^ 
Hospitalinthat of a pensioner In tio^^^ certificate will be 
an application for '-^"^hoi.ty to issue a^^^^^^ ,1^^ 
submitted with the question f ™^^,,^niissioners of Chelsea 

officer i/c records, ^lie leport ^^^^^^ accompanied by the 

Hospital in the case of a Pe^^i^^^! '^^^"g'^'g . ^,,d a new certificate 
declaration referred to in PJ^^S^^Pjon o tie Commissioners has 
^vill not be issued until the decision o reservist, 

^««rtmc.t« ^^^^^^^^^ 
Wirt, are am-rendereda^ter the "wy'^^J,^^ „»toved to the 

Office or to Chel.ea H"P*'''' ''S,' ' "„ but the tat should 
neiiaioner, I rrav reservist, or ^p™ ''f^''^^ t„ the War Office. 

r.'at «..»«. '»*<\'.-<'i5fiStft 'CrS i» tra— 0» SKf 

227. When a life certincate reservist, ^t. 

through the post, the whom the lost ^ 

pensioner, or other Pe'-'^^'^/^^^f ^^^^^^^^^^ whether the statement 
certificate was signed, and then ^J^;^^^^^^^^,^ new form of life 
is correct. If the ^tatemeut l^e fou^^^^ c ^^^^.^^^ 1^ 

certificate may be granted at on^^'^""^ ^ pension, or non-trammg 
pleted,the amount due m respect of pa^ 

SlyTd th'e^rS^i'ittS'certificate proved to have been 

n^a^i^?t.tifica.e of idei^%;j -;^irS^S^l^^SiiS: 
will be renewed at tlie expiration of In 

reserve P^y ^ P^^^^Ved X^^^^^ expire Pay-en. to 

cases each space not ^equ^J-e" ^^^^^ engagements expire ^J^^^^ 

229. The pay due to -^^esei visits ^^^^ expiration of ^len on 

.luring a quarter -^v ^%Icrtha' a man has lost his parchment ..charge, 
their engagements. The fact tha. a^n^^^ ^^.^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ 

SS^^«:^^;::i';;^'i-Sr?^the last instalment of -^.^ 

:srtotr^rrL:3i^^^^^^^^ 

dentity cerlificate (A-^- *66), «^^^^ , t„ the n,»n to 
;S'tirJgr*;"l^/X'c-hed, a.d he ,ho,.W h. .„.«.. 



Arm-y Pay Department. 



46 



Disposal 
of old 

ueitiricates. 



Pensioners 
t o he 

:jidentified 
. periodic- 
ally. 
A.0.322 
1911 ' 



Pension or 
Army 

Reserve pay 
due to each 
man at 
home to be 
entered in 
A.F. If 1534. 



Date of 
expiration 
of service ot 
temporary 
pension to 
be shown 
A.O. 72 ■ 
19M 

Deduction 
to be noted 



Casualties. 
A.0.291 



'19H 



How pre- 
pared and 
wlien for- 
warded. 



requested to return the certificate when he has obtained payment 
of the money order. 

231. Identit}- certificates? returned for renewal will be retained 
for .si.x months, and will then be dealt with a-s useless documents. 
Old life certificates will be retained for one year from the date 
on which they are received, and then dealt with similarly. 

231a. All pensioners are to be identified periodically by means of 
A.F. D 415, in accordance with instructions issued from cime to 
time. Any^points of doubt should be carefully investigated. 

In addition to the periodical identification, jjaymaaters should 
effect occasional identifications on their own initiative, especially 
when renewing the identity certificate of aged pensioners. 

O^ce Records. 

232. The paymaster at home will enter the amount due to each 
•pensioner or army reservist, and the number of his identity certifi- 
cate, in A.F. N 1534. These forms, in which the amounts due 
may be :entered concurrently with the preparation of the money 
orders, will be available for six years, and will be supplied in 
the form of bound books, or loose sheets, whichever is preferred. 
They will be retained for six financial years after completion. The 
names of reservists will be entered in alphabetical order by coi-ps, 
according to the year in which they joined the Reserve, and those of 
pensioners also in alphabetical order by corps, suiiicient space being 
left for the names of new men coming into payment, and for 
remarks. A separate record -will be kept for each of the classes 
of reserve men and pensioners detailed in paragraph 237. A.F. N 
1534b will be used for recording pension payments to widows 
and children of soldiers. 

233. A paymaster paying army reservists will show the date of 
expiration of service of each man in red ink on the line below his 
name in the office record. This date will be taken from A.F. 0 
;1814 after verification by the officer i/c records. The date on 
which the temporary .pension of a man will expire will be shown 
in like manner. 

,234. AH deductions made from reserve pay or from -pension i, 
?ind all issues made on behalf of pensioners to other pei-sons, will 
be noted in the "Eemarks " column of A.F. N 1534. 

235. The paymaster is responsible that all casualties are noted 
on A.F. N 1534 or N 1537 as soon as they ai-e reported, and that 
tl^eyiftre, checked and initialed by an officer and not by a clerk. 

Advice Lists. 

236. The advice lists, compiled as far as possible from A.F. 
,N ,1534 in the case of pensioners and army reservists, and A.F.N 
;1492 in the case of non-training bounties payable to special 
ireservists, and completed with the aid of the life certificates, will be 
'forwarded, at the close of each day upon which army money ordera 
are, issued, to the Coutrollev, Money Order Department, General 
Post Office, London. 



47 



Army Pay Department. 



payments. 



The names to be entered in the same 
order as in A.F. N 1534,- or 

• A.F. N 1492, and " Special Cam- 
paign pensions " to be so described 
in the column headed "Eemarks.'' 



m 



237. Separate advice lists will be prepared for each class of pay- S^Pf^™',?^^^ 
ments as follows:- 

(a) Army Keserve, Section" 

A. 

(b) Army Eeserve, Section 

B. 

(c) Army Eeserve, Section 

D. 

(d) PermanentChelseapen- 

sions. 

(e) Special Eeserve ; non- 

training bounty. ^ 
(/) Temporary Chelsea pensions. | rpj^^ names to be entered 
(g) Pensions of widows and }■ alphabetical order. 

children of soldiers. J 
338. A pensioner entitled to a second pension, or to ^n annuity On. — y 
in addition to pension, will be paid in one army money order, the . 
totaramount of which will be entered in the advice list. for^otal 

239. The date of admission and Chelsea -^^^er of each pen^^^^^^^ ...t pay- 
will be entered in the advice list m which the first order tor ms 

4. ;,-.f.inrlprl The number and date or tne ^^neisea pg^gjons 
KiTwill be Sm Sy enlred'n'he case of the first payment o 
InTncrTased pension, Ir of a temporary pension continued or made 
permanent. 

240. Gancelled. 

241 The date of expiration of a reservist's service in Section A ^tf^o^^ 

241. ine aaxejji J P termination of a temporary L service or 
of the Army Eese.ve, or tne aate ui ^ line Ipension to 

pension, will be given in the ^<i^i^«„/Vm- thi purpose 
below the man's name, a line being left foi ^^i^ F ^P^^^; corrections 
oAo whATi It i^ necessarv to make a correction witli regata lo .^^^^^^^^ 

the paymaster will '^^'l^^:^^^^^^^ of Army Eeserve 

243. Particulars witHiegara .''^"J .,, , „ivowii opposite the forfeited. 
p.y, non-training bounty or P-sion wi 1^^^^^^ opp^^^^^^ 

man's name m the '^^.^f^^, J^^te Pay " should be used for 
necessary, the column headed J^^^l''^ bounty, or pension so 
the purpose, the heading bem- ^^^ered . ^'^^^^^^^^ 1533). 

'""itl'^t^L'^oi:^^^^^^ trn^Stf- pa , non-training ---on^, 

244. All deductions maue ixum j u i of pensioners w pension to , 

bounty, or pensions, /J in tS^ -S-^ 

other persons, will be duly i^ecoraeu i pension the 

the names of the "f,];^^^^ pension 

deduction has been made. In t'^^^^f ^ % ° ..jd to some other 
owing to a portion of the order by which 

authorized person, the number o {^i^^^^^Vthe advice list, 
such payment has been made will be stated in 



Army Pay Department. 



48 



Deductions will, whenever practicable, be Bupported by the number 
and date of the letter or authority requiring hucIi deductions. 

246. When a money order is issued in lieu of one which has been 
cancelled or become void, the number of the void or cancelled order 



Money 
order in 
plivce of 
void 01 
cancelled 
order. 

Additions to 
be ex- 
plained. 

Special 
points. 



Paymaster 
to clieck 
advice lists 
jpersonally. 



"Forms, Ac, 
required. 



will be given in the advice list. 

246. When a snm remitted for a man is added to his pay, 
bounty, or pension, and paid to him by money order, an explanatory 
note should he made in the "Kemarks" column of the advice list. 

247. It is important that the orders conlainetl in each advice 
list be issued in strict numerical sequence ; that the total number 
and total amount of orders contained in the various lists be collected 
and totalled on the last list ; and that the whole of the lists bearing 
the same date be despatched together. 

248. A paymaster will check the advice lists with the life certi- 
licates and with A.F. N 1534 or N 1492, as the case may be, and also 
compare the money orders with the advice list?. He may be aided 
by any clerk in the office who did not actually prepare the docu- 
ments to be checked. As soon as the money orders have been 
checked anrl are ready for issue, the life certificates should be 
stamped "Paid." A paymaster will see that the altprations in con- 
sequence of any casualties are made in the advice lists before their 
transmission to the General Post Office, and that any money orders 
which may have been prepared in such cases aie cancelled. 

Army Money Orders. 

249. The following is a list of the forms and sundries required 
for the issue of army money orders ; timely application will be 
made to the Controller, MoQey Oi'der Department, for the renewal 
of any stock before it becomes exhausted : — • 

1. List of money order offices.* 

2. Army money order forms, with forms of advice attached. 

3. Forms requesting stoppage of payment of an order : and 
authority to issue a new order. 

4. Second advice forms, to be used when an original advice has 
failed to reach the office at which an order is payable ; or 
when it is necessary to re-advise for any discrepancy in 
number, amount, or name of payee. 

5. Advice lists (money order account) upon which to enter for 
the information of the Money Order Department, the par- 
ticulars of the orders issued each day. 

6. Special envelopes for enclosing the monej"^ order accounts to the 
Money Order Department, London. 

7. Special enveloj^es for forwarding advices when several are 
drawn upon the same office. 

8. Forms of application for army money order stores. 



* This list is to be kept corrected up to date. It is not to be confused \rith 
tlie list of post offices given in tlie Post Office Guide. 



Army Pay Department. 



9. Sundries : special pens, semi-carbonic paper for the " manifold 
writer pi'ocess," date stam|i, date dies, stamping pad and 
stamping itik. Post Office Guide. 

250. The money order forms aud date stamp will be kept in the Custody of 
riffice safe, tlie key of which must not be entrusted to any person g^^Sp'^"'^ 
lot tielouging to the directing start' of the office. 

251. The paymaster will give out daily the approximate number Forms for 
. of money order forms required for the day's use, and, at the close ^^^'^ 

iDf business, will satisfy himself that all tiiose given oat have been 
ilaly accounted foi-. He will be held responsible for any loss 
resulting from neglect of tliese instructions. 

252. As a rule, army money orders will be made payable at the Money 
imouey order office named in the payee's life certificate. If the 
■>rders drawn on any post office are more than could conveniently 

boe paid in one day^ the paymaster will exercise his discretion in 
Histributuig the payments over the first two or three days of the 

quarter, or in requiring men who live near other offices to attend at 

I'.hose offices. 

253. Money order offices must be exactly described as in the list ^j.'Jf^^^^Ji" 
of such offices, so as to leave no possible doubt as to the office advice, 
iinteuded. 

254. The advice will be filled up and despatched to the postmaster ^j'^^Pf^'g^^^"^ 
■'our days before the order is sent to the payee. When, however, it money 

ss not possible to despatch the advice so early, it should be sent as orders, 
.ong in advance of the order as can conveniently be arranged. In 
lipecial cases, in which it is of importance that the payment should 
ioe made without delay, the order and advice may be despatched at 
hhe same time ; but army money orders will not, ' under any 
uircumstances, be posted early enough to enable the payees to 
)Dresent them for payment be'fore they are due. Postage stamps f^^'j^^S^^g^ 
laeed not be affixed to advices. required. 

255. Army money orders must not be issued for amounts exceed- :^™.°J^'^'^ 
iug 40^. ; nor for amounts including the fractional part of a penny, ^oney 

^Should a fractional amount be due, the fraction will be reckoned as orders may 
i penny, and a corresponding deduction made from the order next be issued. 

siasued. 

256. When an order is issued for less than IL, the £ space both Blank 
lin the fip-ure and word por tion of the or der will be obliterated with scored, 
•two deep black lines, thus : " : also, when no amount is 
required to be inserted in the shillings or pence space of an order, 

ithe vacant space will be similarly filled up. , • 

257. Each order and the relative advice,* will be stamped under stamping, 
ithe immediate supervision of the paymaster, after he has satisfied 
himself that the amount is actually due, taking care that the stamp 

vaffixed to the order and advice in every case bears the same date as 
!the advice list in which the order is charged. The entries on the 
orders will also agree with the corresponding entries in the advice 
lists. ^ 

~*l'he semi-carbonic paper must be removed before tlie date stamp is 
kiaffixed, as the stamping ink will not penetrate through it to the advice. 



Army Pay Department. 50 

Errors or 268. No alteration or erasure in an order can be permitted. If 

orders^'^'^'^^ an error made in an order be discovered in time, the order will be 
cancelled and a new one issued. If, before the issue of an order, 
and the despatch of the relative advice list, the order is found to 
be unnecessary, the paymaster may strike it out of the advice list 
and amend the total. Every oi-der cancelled will be noted across 
the face with the words " Spoiled " or " Not granted," and will be 
pinned to the money order account in which, if issued, it would 
have appeared ; and the number will be entered in the money 
order account in proper sequence, with the note " Not granted — 
Order enclosed" written against it. When an order has been 
charged and issued, it cannot be cancelled, but may be re-issued in 
the manner described in paragrajjh 260. 
advfce has ^^^^^ apiDlication is made to the issuing office in respect of 

not reached '''dvice which has failed to reach its destination, the particulars 
destination, will be Supplied on one of the forms of "second advice." 
Transfer of 360. When transfer of payment from the original office of 
order or* payment to another is desired, or when the death of the payee, or 
issue in other circumstance, has rendered the issue of a new order 
substitution necessary, the original order will be returned to the issuing 
already paymastei', who may then issue a new order upou the office at 
issued. which payment is required When he has issued the new order, he 
will note the original order thus : " Re-issued," and forward it 
forthwith to the Controller, Money Order Department. The new 
order will be charged in the account of the day on which it is 
issued. It is unnecessary, under the circumstances described, for 
the paymaster to recall the advice of the original order. Spoiled 
or cancelled orders will be returned to the paymaster by the 
Money Order Department with the j^aid orders. 
Lost orders, 261. When application is made for a new order in consequence 
of' the alleged loss or destruction of the original order, notice will 
be at once given upon the form described in paragraph 249 to 
the office of payment, the postmaster of which will forward the 
advice, if payment has not already been made, to the Controller, 
Money Order Department, for authority to issue a new order. No 
second order will be issued under such circumstances until 
a reply has been given by the Controller to the notice of appli- 
cation. 

Sanding When a money order has been notified to the paymaster by 

orders. the Money Order Department as "outstanding," iio further 
reference to that Department need be made before issuing a new 
order. The man's identity certificate should, however, be called in 
for inspection to ascertain Avhether the space applicable to the 
order in question has been stamped, 
payments Whenever stoppage of payment or recovery of an advice 

return of for any special purpose is required, application will be made to the 
Mked^for ^^^^ payment on the form referred to in paragraph 249. 
^ When the request is made by telegraph the forms should 

follow by first post, 
discovered Errors discovered in the advice lists, whetWer in respect of 

in advice casting or of discrepancies between the ataottnts of individual 

lists. 



)l Army Pay Department. 

iDrders and the amounts charged on the list, will be corrected in the 
idvice lists in the Money Order Department. Notices will be sent 
3y the Controller to paymasters, in whose advice lists the errors 
)ccur, to enable them to make any necessary connections in their 
•ecords or adjustments in future payments. 

265. When a stoppage is made from a man's reserve pay, non- Stoppage to 
■•jrammg bounty, or pension, a signed memorandum snowing the to man. 
;ause and amount of the stoppage should be sent to the man with 

lis money order. 

266. As each army money order is made out it shoiild ^^^^ertoUe 
olaced, together with the form of life certificate previously placed with 
orepared, in the envelope addressed to the man in whose favour' the lifecertifi- 
irder is drawn. The envelope should then be fastened and kept in envelope, 
saafe custody until desijatched. 

267. The completion of money orders for men who have sent in J^^^'^jj'fg^'^''" 
.ansatisfactory life certificates may, if considered necessary, be certificates, 
postponed until the money orders for other men have been com- 
pleted. 

268. Army money orders will not be crossed for payment ^"^Jy 

through a bank. orciers not 

to be 
crossed. 

269. In order that the numerical sequence of the orders may not Numerical 
be broken, the paymaster will, in the last month of the quarter, orderTmust 
before commencing the preparation of the orders for issue iin notbe 

the ensuing month, retain for use as many order forms as he is likely 'iroken. 
tto require before the end of the quarter. If any of the forms so 
rretained remain unissued at the end of the quarter, they will then 
Ibe cancelled, and forwarded to the Controller, Money Order 
IDepartment. 

Adjustmient of Stoppages for Debts or Overpayments, and Remittances. 

270. Sums recovered from army reservists, special reservists, or Sums re- 
, pensioners, by deduction from army money orders, will, if due to ^iJaUow- 
tthe paymaster by whom the recovery is made, be detailed in ances, 
■A.F. N 1533, and the corresponding charge for pension, &c., will debts, &c. 
Ibe made in the current account against the vote concerned, a 

I reference being given therein to the A.F. N 1533, in which 
tthe deductions are shown. Sums due to an officer in the pay- 
I ment of such paymaster will be treated similarly, but the charge 
muist in these cases be supported by proof of payment. 

271. Stoppages due to paymasters of the Royal Marines will !be Due to pay- 
c dealt with as in paragraph 270, the amount being 'remitted 

Marines. 

t through the cashier as soon as recovered. 

272. Sums -recovered on account of debts due from ''^ ''^serVist Dueto^^^^ 
' or pensioner to his former corps, or to a paymaster other than the priJ^eut^" 

I man's present paymaster, will, if not for remittance to India, be paymaster. 
f,adju8ted "by means of " paymasters' advances." If for remittance 
rto India, they will be dealt with under the instructions foi- 
I remittances. 



Army Pay Department. 



Issue of 
sums remit- 
ted to men. 



Mode of 

renrleiing 

accounts. 



273. Sums remitted by paymasters through tlie medium ol 
paymasters' advances, as due to reservists or pensioners, will h, 
issued with tlienext instahueiitof the men's reserve pay orpeiisioi; 
uuless they exceed 5s. in amount, in which ca.se they will at onc' 
be paid through the cashier. 

6. ACCOITNTS. 

(a) General Rules. 

274. Accounts, as under, will be rendered l)y paymasters and 
cashiers respectively as soon as possible after the expiration of each 
month : — 

Paymaster's general state of accounts. 
Cashier's statement of receipts and disburse- 



A.F. N 1506. 
A.F. 0 1821. 
ments. 



A.O. 1S2 
1913 



Fractions. 



Kecord of 
charges and 
credits. 



A.O. 107 

191U 
A.O . 254 
19U 

Preparation 
of 

schedules. 



275. Two of the above-mentioned accounts will be prepared for 
eacli monthly period, one being forwarded to the War Office (or 
local auditor) and the other retained by the paymaster or ca.s]iier. 
The account on A.F. N 1506 will be accompanied by a copy of tbe 
paymaster's classified abstract books, and, except where otherwise 
arranged, by all vouchers. The cashier's account will be forwarded 
through the command paymaster, who will attach the vouchers 
referred to in jjaragraph 61 anrl countertiign it after satisfying 
himself that it is in agreement with the books, &c., kept by" the 
cashier 

276. Fractions of a penny will not be charged or credited under 
the vaxnous heads of service in the general state. When tbe 
general state has been completed, the fractions on either side of 
the account will be struck out, and the total amount of such frac- 
tions on the credit side will be charged,' and on the debit side 
credited, to the charge and credit suspense accounts respectively. 
At the end of each financial year, the total amounts standing to 
the del^it and credit of the suspense accounts on account of 
fractions, exclusive of any sum less than one penny, will be charged 
and credited in the general state under the headings Vote I, 
Miscellaneous and Unforeseen Regimental Charges " and " Vote I, 
Appropriations in Aid, Miscellaneous Receipts," respectively. 

277. All chtrges and credits in the classified abstract books will 
be duly vouched, and no voucher will be accepted iu which there 
is any erasure or alteration affecting the nature, amount, or date of 
payment, unless the alteration is properly authenticated and made 
in such a manner as not to oljliterate the original entry. The 
vouchers will bear evidence of the examination given to them in 
the paymaster s office, and, for this purpose, the figures, &c., which 
have been checked will be ticked in red ink, and the vouchers will 
be stamped, 'examined and passed' and initialed bv the paymaster 
responsible. 

278. The paymaster will prepare one schedule for each of tbe 
undermentioned services, to which will be annexed the vouchers 
relating to that service : — 



1 



Army Pay Department. 



Army Form. 
Charges. Credits. 

ncome duty and remittances • .... N 1520. N 1521. 

ffects .... N 1520. N 1509. 

'ay master's advances 0 1685. 0 ^686. 

Jail way and passage suspense account ... — ■t;' \^A^- 

,avings banks transactions N 1521. N 1521. 

;eg\mental charitable fond N 1520. N 52 . 

aiotments from soldiers' pay N 1520. N 1521. 

lemiltances to India .... — ^ , 

279 In the case of charges and credits to army votes, only such 
rhedules as, under special .instructions, may be required by the 
»Var Office or local auditor will be prepared. 

280. Schedules will be numbered consecutively in one series Numberm^^^ 
hrou-hout the account, following the order of the items, and com- "J^f'^''''''' 
uencfna- with those for receipt. The vouchers attached to eacU vouchers, 
.schedule will be numbered consecutively, each voucher being 
narked with the number of the schedule and the number of the 
voucher. Sub-vouchers will be treated similarly. The command 
or station will be shown distinctly at the head of each schedule and 
voucher, as also the period of the account to which such schedule 

"'s^'voVctSfor charges and credits other than those scheduled ^^n^^^n,^ 
when supporting amounts carried direct into the classifaed abstract 
book, will be numbered consecutively under the headings concerned. 
Vouchers to a company or other pay list will also be numbered con- 
spcntivelv when not relating to scheduled charges and credits. 

28t cLrge items necessarily held in suspense will be carried to Charge^ ^ 
an account in the ledger entitled " Charge pease Account and 
the only entries which will be made on the credit side of this 
a count will be items in adjustment of the cl-rges already x.st^^^^^ 
to the debit side. The balance on the account will be the total 
amount of unadjusted charges held m suspense. 

283. Credit items necessarily held 7l\^„7°httnlv -^^^^^^^^ 

a ledger account entitled « Credit Suspense Account, and the only 
entries which will be made on the debit side of w^^^^^^^ 
items in adjustment of the credits already ^'^^"[^f^t . ^.^^^^^ 
on this account will be the total amount of unadjusted ci edits neia 

"28? The' paymaster will prepare and forward each -onth -ith «rsto 
his general kate of accounts a copy of the charge and ciedit 
suspense accounts. 

(6) Returns of Receipts and Expenditure. 
285. Paymasters will forward direct to the War Office not later ^.t^nsto^ 
than the 5th day of the month following that t° ^^^f^;*;, 'SZl' 
return, on A.F. N 1458a, of estimated receipts and expendit ue office. 
A further return, on A.F. N 1458 of actual receipts a d expend! 
ture will be forwarded to the War Office not later than the 27tli day 
of the month. 



Army Pay Department. 



54 



A.O. 280 
1913 



Credit to 
public. 



Disallow- 
ances not 
Immedi- 
ately re- 
coverable. 
Recovery of 
disallow- 
ances. 



Trans- 
mission of 
decisions. 



How con- 
ducted. 



Accounts: to 
be described 
on cover. 



Postage. 



A.O. 107 

1910 
A.O. 91 
1913 



iDep»rt- 
mental 
returns and 
reports. 



286. Cancelled. 

(c) Abstracts of Examination and Disallowances. 

287. Disallowances will be credited to the public in full imme- 
diately on receipt of the abstract of examination, or query, in 
which the disallowances are notified. 

288. If any item disallowed cannot immediately be recovered, 
either in cash or by debit to a s\ib-accountant, it may temporarily 
be debited to the charge suspense account. 

289. Paymasters will take all necessary steps to recover sums 
which may be due from officers and others on account of disallow- 
ances. Such sums are payable without delay, except where, at a 
station abroad or on active service, an appeal is made against the 
disallowance and the general officer commanding authorizes post- 
ponement of payment pending a decision on the appeal. 

260 In order to assist the command paymaster in the exercise 
of his duties of supervision and control, decisions on abstracts of 
examination of accounts rendered by a regimental paymaster or 
cashier will be passed to the command paymaster for transmission 
■to the pajon aster concerned. 

7. COBBESPONDENCE, BETUBNS AND BEPOBTS. 

291. Correspondence will be conducted in accordance with the 
rules laid down in the King's Eegulations. In matters of 
routine a paymaster may communicate direct with the War Office, 
or local auditor, as the case may be. 

292. When accounts or documents are forwarded to the War 
Office, or local auditor, their description will be briefly stated on 
the left-hand corner of the cover. A letter announcing their 
despatch will be transmitted separately. They will not be regis- 
tered unless special circumstances may render such a course 
desirable, 

293. The postage of all letters will be prepaid, except in 
the case of those posted in the United Kingdom and 
the Channel Islands, and addressed to the War Office ; 
the Tnspector-Genex-al of the Forces ; the Royal Arsenal, 
and Royal Dockyard, Woolwich (except those addressed to the 
Chief Ordnance Officer, Woolwich District) ; the Ordnance Officer, 
Tower of London ; the Royal Army Clothing Department, 
Grosvenor Road, London ; Headquarters Irish Command ; Head- 
quarters, Scottish Command ; Army Pay Offices and Army Audit 
Office, Dublin ; and Army Pay Offices and Array Audit Offica, 
'Edinburgh, 

294. Departmental returns and reports, as provided for in the 
King's Regulations, will be furnished by paymasters and others 
concerned. 



Sub-Accountants. 



SECTION II.-SUB-ACCOUNTANTS. 



1. GENERA.Ii DUTIES. 

; 295. Officers, other than direct accountants to the War Office,* 
ho receive or disburse moneys on behalf of the public, are called 
lib-accountants. They will render an account of their public 
•ansactions in the manner laid down in this section. Keoordof 
: 296 All sub-accountants will keep a strict record of sums transac- 
.jceived or expended by them, and such record, together with the tious. 
lank pass book, will be open to the inspection of the paymaster • — ^^^^ 
jncerned, or any person appointed for the purpose. 

297. Imprests of public funds will, as a rule,, only be made to imprests, 
flfficers regularly acting as sub-accountants. Applications for 
imprests in exceptional cases will show the necessity for the 
ildvance and the nature of the service for which the money^ is 

^298^ Officers receiving imprests will be held responsible for all 

joney so advanced to them until it has been satisfactorily ^Q ggg 

ccounted for. Any unexpended balance is to be refunded to the jgjg" 

lashier as soon as the service in respect of which, an imprest was j 
issued is completed. 



A.o; 132' 



1913 



298A MV impreat^ holders and officers paying military or 
iivilian subordinates will keep an account of cash receipts and 
>xpenditure, and will render an^ account on A.F. W 1531 once 
. month to the paymaster concerned. i i i f Limitation 

299 No sub-accountant will maintain a larger cash balaiice oi j^^gj, 
4ublie money than is actually necessary, and indents should not be balance, 
out forward in advance of requirements. In the case of the|_A,^m 
.•egular forces, the balance shown by the account of the company, i9io 
:fec., commander tb be due to the regimental paymaster wiJl not, 
%s a rule, exceed £10 when the number of men on pay is less than 
.150 non-commissioned officers and men, or £20 lor 150 or more. indents Tor 

300. Funds required by officers regularly acting as sut)- funds, 
iccountants will be indented for on A.F. N 1487 which, ex<,ept 

rn the case of funds for regimental services, will be forwarded 

to the command paymaster fbrnecessary action. Company, 

301. Officers commanding squadrons of cavalry and companies. & o^eer. 
■bf infantry will obtain funds from the cashier of the command ^^3^ 
un which their unit is quartered through the adjutant of then | 

unit, indenting weekly on A.F. N 1487. 



Or to a local auditor acttog on beHalf of the War Office. 



Silt- Accountants. 



56 



Units of 
U.A., &c. 



A.O. 132 
1913 

Special Re- 
serve and 
Territorial 
Force. 

Banlcing 
arrange- 
ments. 



Banlting 
accounts ; 
general 
rules. 



Cash boolc 
and ledger. 



Cash -pay- 
ments to 
soldier. 



Increase in 
rate ot pay. 



Detach- 
ments. 



302. Officers commanding units of Royal Artillery, Royal 
Engineers, Armv Service Corps, Army Ordnance Corps, and Royal 
Army Medical Corps will obtain funds weekly by direct indent 
(A.F. N 1487) upon the cashier of the command in which their unit 
is quartered. 

303. In the case of units of the Special Rese)-ve or the Terri- 
torial Force, sub-accountants will obtain funds in the manner laid 
down in the Special Reserve or the Territorial Force Regulations. 

304. Officers acting as sub-accountants may open banking 
accounts at any authorized bank, if such a course is desirable and 
convenient for the purpose for which they receive advances of 
public money. Except where an imprest is issued as an advance 
to meet purelv personal expenditure, ])ublic money will not be 
paid into the private banking account of an officer. Any necessary 
information as to authorized banks is obtainable from the command 
or regimental paymaster, and will be treated as strictly confidential. 
Forms of cheque will be obtained from the bank with the words 
" On His Majesty's Service" conspicuously printed thereon and will 
not bear a stamp. 

305. The banking accounts, &c., of officers acting as sub- 
accountants are subject generally to the conditions and rules in 



Section I governing the banking accounts, &c., 



of cashiers. 



2. PAYMENT OF BEGTJLAE, TROOPS. 

306. A company, &c., commander of regular troops will keep an 
account of his casti receipts and expenditure, together with the 
regimental stoppage account, in the cash book and ledger (Army 

Book 69). , • • 1 , 

307. The duty of making cash payments to the individual 
soldier will devolve upon the company, &c., commander to which 
the soldier belongs, or is attached for pay. All such paymeuts 
will be recorded in the pay and mess book (A.F. N 1504a) by 
the company, &c., commander. 

308. No cash payment will be made in respect of any increase m 
a soldier's rate ot pay until such increase has been duly notified to 
the regimental paymaster and the amount placed to the credit of 
the man's account in the pay list. 

309. Cash payments to detachments not attached for pay to 
other units will be made on the detachment pay sheet (A.F. 

I N 1510). At the end of each account period the total pay issuec 
to each soldier on detachment will be carried into the pay and 
mess book as a casual payment, and the detachment pay sheet wd 
be annexed to the pay and mess book in support of the entry. 

310. Pay due to soldiers on furlough, &c., will be remitted by 
means of money order and not by cheque. 

311 On the last pay day in March of each year, the approxi- 
mate balance of pay, &c., then due to the soldier will be paid t 
him, whei'e this course is practicable. 



Sub-Accountants. 



312. The company, &c., commander will pay all company bills Company 
n, or before, the last day of each account period. ^^ 

313 The imprest account of the company, &c., commander imprest 
unth the regimental paymaster will be kept on the folio provided 'account. 
;or that purpose in the pay and mess book. 

314. The bank pass book, cash book and ledger (Army Book 69), |T;-peoUon _ 
with all vouchers relating thereto, may be called for from time 
. 0 time for inspection by the regimental paymaster. lyu 

315 In the event of transfer of command, the officer taking over Transfer of 
. -11 i- r 1 • 1* comraand. 

•bharge of a company will satisfy himselt— . » n 

(!) That the cash payments during the account period, as shown I ^■'^■f^ - 
in the cash book, agree with the entries in (a) the pay and 
mess book, and (6) the stoppage account in the company 
ledger; also that they are supported by receipts and 
vouchers where necessary. ■, * 

(2) That all company bills have been paid to the end ot the 

preceding account period. ' 

(3) That the amount handed over, whether in the form ot a 

bank balance, cash, or stamps, agrees with the balance shown 
by the cash book. The bank balance should be verified by the 
pass book, allowance being made for any outstanding cheques. 

316. All completed vouchers concerning the pay list will be Vouchers, 
tforwarded to the paymaster with, as far as practicable, the orders 

iin which the casualties are promulgated. Clothing vouchers will 
I be forwarded as provided for in the Clothing Kegnlations. 

317. The hospital stoppage return (A.F. 0 1643) will be rendered Hosp^tel^^ 
tto the paymaster, who will make the necessary recovericR and give 

tthe required reference to credit (by deduction from pay) on the 

"^srSTnton A.FS. P 19.54 and P 1963, will be forwarded stoppages^^ 
tto the paymaster, showiug the names of any soldiers sentenced by eiothing 
. court-mai'tial, or ordered by competent mihtary authority to ^^^^^ 
make good the value of articles of clothing or equipment wilfully 
Host, destroyed, made away with, or damaged, and the amount due 
>on account of each article during the period covered by the 

' 'Tio!" Detailed instructions governing the preparation, adjust- General 
; ment, &c., of the pay accounts of soldiers of the regular forces aie ,i„„3. 
, given in Section 1, and will be observed by officers commanding 
■ companies, &c., so far as they are concerned. 

3. SPECIAL BESERVE AND TEBEITOBIAL FORCE. 
320 The pay, &c., due to officers and men of the Special Reserve 
or the Territorial Force will be issued in the manner laid down in 
. the Special Eeserve or the Territorial Force Regulations, as the 
I case may be. 



it 



. Sub- Accountants. 



58 



Mode of 
issue. 

How 
olaimerl. 

.A,0. 213 
1912 



Proof of 
payment. 



Wages 
certificate. 



Unclaimed 
wages. 



Audit of 
check book 



PAYMENT 



CIVILIAN 



OF MIIilTABY AND 
SUBORDINATES. 

321. The pay of military and civilian .subordinates will ordinarily 
be issued by the head of the dei)artment, &c., concerned. 

322. Pay, &c., of military subordinates will be claimed on the 
detachment or company form of pay list (A.F. N 1502 or N 1505). 
I 823. The salaries of superior civilian employees who are not 
[subject to the provisions of the National Insurance Act will be 
claimed on a pay list (A.F. 0 1679). 

324. Pay of masters and crews of War Department ve.ssels will 
be claimed on a ^Day list (A.F. O 1773). 

325. Other civilian subordinates will be paid on the check book 
(Army Book 198 or 63, or special form), except where their number 
is very small, in which case a pay list (A.F. 0 1603) may be used 
instead. This point will be decided by the general officer in charge 
of administration on the submission of the command paymaster. 

326. When payments are made on the check book, the latter will 
be brought to the pay table, and, except in the case of Pimlico, Wool- 
wich Arsenal and Dockyard, Enfield, and Waltham, the payments 
will be certified on the check book by two witnesses as follows : — 

" We certify that the amount shoion against the name of each of the 
dhove-mentioned persons for the xoeek ended has been 

duly paid in our presence to the man himself or to the person 
authorised by him in writing to receive it, with the exception of 
the sum of ' on account of wages unclaimed.'' ^ 

327. One of the witnesses should, when practicable, be the officer 
under whom the men are serving, or, in his absence, the foreman, 
and the paying officer may be the other. 

328. The total amount of wages due, according to the check 
book, will be entered on the wages certificate (A.F. 0 1665), which 
will be signed by the officer under whom the men are serving, and 
passed to the paying officer with the check book. As soon as 
payment has been made, the wages certificate will be signed by the 
paying officer and witnesses. Wages certificates will be forwarded 
to the paymaster concerned at the end of each month, or as 
may be arranged, in sup])ort of the charges in the accounts. In the 
case of artificers, labourers, &c., employed on Royal Engineer works 
services, the wages classification abstract (A.F. O 1663) will be 
forwarded monthly with the wages certificates. 

329. Wages remaining unclaimed are not chargeable against 
the public, but will be shown in the space provided for the purpose 
on the wages certificate (or pay list). When subsequently paid, 
the charge against the public will be supported by a reference to 
the voucher in which the wages are shown as unclaimed. 

330. The check books (or pay lists) on which wages are paid, 
as well as the sick-pay book (Army Book 244), which may he used 
in conjunction with the check book when found necessary, will be 
prepared and certified b}'^ the oflicers under whom the sub- 
ordinates are employed. The check books will be retiiined by 
these officers, but must be produced for examination by the pay- 
master and for audit when required. 



I 



Sub- Accountants. 



331. 



, ACCOTTNTS. 

Sub-accountants will rendei' accounts for the 



services, and Sub-ac- 

countants 
accounts. 



Service. 


>ub-accountant 
responsible for 
Receipts and 
Issues. 


Form of 
Account. 


When to be 
Rendered. 


To whom to be 
Rendered. 


sayment of com- 
I panics, &.C., of 
'. legular troops, 
land of Special 
1 Reserve recruits 
t training on en- 
; listment ; also 
I pay of regular 
test ablishment 
I of Special Re- 
! serve when sta- 
1 tioned at head- 
1 quarters of a 
1 recruits' traln- 
i ing unit. 


Company, &c., 
commanders. 


Pay and mess 
book ; A.F. N 
1504a . 


By 9 a.m. on 
the Tuesday 
following the 
last Friday in 
each month. 


Regimental | 
paymaster. | 


'Vay of Special 
Reserve unit 
. during annual 
■ training. 


Company, &c., 
commanders. 


Training pay 
lists; A.F.N 
1492. 


Witliin Den 
days of ex- 
piration of 
training. 


A c o l^/^irO 
iXa aUUVc« 


Vav of Territorial 
Force unit 
during annual 
training. 


Company, &c., 
commanders 
through adju- 
tant. 


Training pay 
list and sum- 
mary; A.F. N 
1451 and 
A.F. N 1450. 


Within ten 
days of ex- 
piration of 
training. 


As above. 


'?&y of regular es- 
tablishment of 
Special Reserve 
unit when not 
stationed at 
B headquarters of 
'II a recruits' train- 
( ine unit. 


Adjutant. 


Pay list; 
A.F. N 1494i 


By the Tues- 
day following 
the last Fri- 
day in each 
month. 


Ais above. 


* 'Pay of permanent 
ji staff of Terri- 
. torial Force 
" unit. 


Adjutant. 


Pay list ; 
AiF. N 1452. 


As above. 


As above. 


In ■ 

[Tay of recruiting 
^ party and of 
1< recruits ; regu- 
lar troops. 


Recruiting 
officer. 


Recruiting 
pay list; 
A.'F. N 1512. 


As above. 




ITay of recruits, 
j! Special Reserve 
J before joininK 
for training on 
I* enlistment. 


Recruiting 
officer. 


Ilecrulting 
pay list; 
AiiF. N 1542L 


As above. 


As above. 


1 ^General account 
of sums re- 

{■] ceived and ex- 
fended. 


All sub-ac- 
countants 
other than 
company, kc, 
commanders. 


A.F. N 1531, 
unless other- 
wise arranged 


, As: above, un- 
less otherwise 
arranged. 


] Paymaster 
' through 
whom funds 
are drawn, or 
on whose ac- 
count money 
is received. 



A.0.343:, 
1913 



A.0. 167 



1911 



A.0.343 
1913 



Bills and Claims. 



CO 



SECTION III— ARMY AGENTS. 



Supply of 
funds. 



Notification 
to officers. 



Quarterly 
accounts. 



332. Estimates of the sums required by army agents for the pay 
of the officers in their payment will be prepared on A.F. M 1405, 
and forwarded in time to reach the War Office not later than tlic 
25th of each month. 

333. When auy sum of money is received by an agent from the 
public, on account of an officer in his agency, he will immediately 
notify the fact to the officer concerned. 

334. Army agents will render their accounts to the War Office 
quarterly, as follows : — ■ 

General Staff and ' 
Departments. 

Eoyal Artillery, Royal 

Engineers, Army ^ A.F. N 1453. 

Service Corps, Army 

Ordnance Corps, and 

Royal Army Medical 

Corps. J 

r \ V TvT ^A-A A f One month after the 
Cavalry and Infantry. { ^ 'igsg \ expiration of each 

335. A separate account, on A.F. N 1454, will be rendered by 
the agents for each regiment of cavalry or infantry, as well as a 
" General Statement," on A.F. N 1539, of the accounts of all the 
regiments whose officers are in their payment. 



{Not later than six 
weeks after the expira- 
tion of each quarter. 



SECTION IV.-BILLS AND CLAIMS- 



Mode of 
payment or 
receipt. 



Computa- 
tion for 
broken 
periods of 
year, &c. 



1. GENERAL PROCEDTJBE. 

336. Bills and claims, except such as are dealt with at the "War 
Office, ai-e ordinarily payable or receivable, as the case may be, by 
the cashier of the command on the authority of the command 
paymaster or a regimental paymaster. Payment or receipt by 
sub-accountants is permissible only where specially provided for, 
or where, owing to the exigencies ef the service, the usual procedure 
governing payment and receipt of cash cannot be followed. 

337. "When a salary or an allowance is at an annual rate, the 
amount due for a broken period of any division of the year 
(whether a quarter or a month) for which it is customary to make 
the payment will be computed with reference to the number of 
days in the division during which the broken period occurs. When 



Salaries, 
&c., due in 
Marcli to be 
paid before 
1st April. 

A.O. 322 



1911 



. , Bills and Claims. 

iitermediate issues are made on account of quarterly payments, the 
,voken period will be calculated with reference to tlie number of 
l i vs in the quarter. When the salary or allowance is at a weekly 
ir monthly rate, the broken period will be computed on the basis 
,f the number of days in the week or in the month in which such 
I .roken period occurs. ^ a 

337a Every pndeayour shoukl be made by paymasters and 
.nb-accountants to pay salaries, &c., due in March, before the 
Is^ April and to include the chai'ges in the March account in 
the case of Royal Engineer subordinates paid weekly on a hxed 
day of the week, whose wages are charged lo the works sub- 
heads of the Works Vote, a special payment may, if desired, be 
uade up to the 31st March and the charge included in the year, 
o iSrwise payment will be made up to the last pay day m March m 
the ordinary course. 

2. CONTRACTORS' BILLS. 

338. All bills for Army Service Corps, Royal Engineer, Army ^vhom 
()rdnaiice, Army Medical, or Army Veterinary Services will be forwarded, 
forwarded, duly certified, to the command paymaster for examin- 

. tion and payment, except that :— 

(1) Bills "for stores supplied on an order giv^en by the War Office 
will be paid at the War Office. . , 

(2) Claims for conveyance of regimental baggage except "J Iaxx^ 
connection with training or manceuyrea, will be paid, or I 1913 
otherwise adjusted, by the regimental paymaster. 

(3) Bills in the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich will be pa;^ «>der 
such instructions as may from time to time be given by the 
War Office. 

339. When any alteration in -^^^'^j Z ^^^^'Z till^^^^ 
tractor's claim, the nature and amount of the ^^te^at^^" J'^^ 
notified to the contractor, or to his agent, by the officer ^ho J^^^e 
the alteration. Any alteration in words or figures m a bill .liould 

be initialed by the o^^'^^'^^^Jl^'g jf^^, including prices and con- Notification 

340. Full particulars of all contracts, incjuuiun y rUnart- of contracts. 

ditions, will be notified locally by the heads of '^^I'^^jfJll^^^ 
ments to the paymaster. If the paymaster has any doubt as to tbe 
conditions affecting payment he will raise the question with the 

^.£^^e=: ?:i5uisite check upori bins se^ to a c.., 
pay office for payment, the officer who certifies tbe bills wiU^^ 
the same time transmit to the paymaster, ^ f P^^^^^^f "^^^ 
which he will himself close and despatch, a b. ^f ^^^b bills o 
A F P 1964 concluding with the following certahcate wiitteii i 
Uifofficerfoin handwriting I certify t^-t t e foi^egomg is n 
accurate li.st of the {number ^oords) b^ 1« °rwardea to y 

documents. 



Bills and Claims. 



Power of 
attornei 



or 



By, 
revocable 
assignment 



auUioHzed ^^^'^ furnished to the paymaster, by the local 

to certify heads of services and departments, of the names of officers 
claims. autlioi'ized : — 

(a) To certify claims for payment. 

(b) To certify to the receipt of animals, supplies, or stores, 
343. In cases where a contractor desires the payment of moneys 

accruing under a contract to be made to another party, the 
following regulations will be observed : — 

(a) Au ordinary revocable power of attorney, or a written 
request for payment, may be recognised and acted upon, but 
no assignment should be recognised. 
(6) The document referred to in (a) should be sent to the officer 
responsible for the fulfilment of the contract. If sent other- 
wise than by the contractor himself, its receipt will be notified 
to the contractor before it is acted on. 
(c) In all cases the officer responsible for the fulfilment of the 
contract will notify to the payee under the' jDower of attorney, 
or written request, that payment will only be made so long as 
the document remains operative. Such officer will also uotif j' 
to the paying officer the receipt and acceptance, or the revoca- 
tion, of any power of attorney, or written request; • 



How dealt 
with. 

A.O. 199 



1911 



By whom 
paid at 
home. 



3. BENTS PAYABLE AND RATES AND TAXES, 
(a) General. 

344. The original agreements and copies of leases for all hirings 
will be passed by the responsible Royal Engineer or Army Service 
Corps officer to the command paymaster and the local auditor for 
notation. Claims for rents (including ground rents and head rents), 
tithes, rates and taxes, and other charges on War Department lands 
and^ buildings, and on premises hired for War Department 
purposes, will be dealt with in accordance with the Regulations for 
Sxipply, Transport and Barrack Services and the Regulations for 
Engineer Services. 

(6) Home Stations. 

845. Claims for rents and tithes, after being duly certified, 
will be examined and passed for payment by the command pay- 
master, except in the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich, where such 
claims, when certified, will, if under £100, be paid locally by 
'the pay-mastei', or, if amounting to £100 or upwards, be forwarded 
to the War Office for payment. 



(c) Stations Abroad. 

Abroad. 346. At stations abroad, all claims for rents and taxes will, 

if properly certified, be examined ;uid passed for payment locally 
by the paymaster dealing with command services. Claims for rates 
will be certified and forwarded direct to the Secretary to the 
Treasury, Whitehall. 



63 



Bills and Claims. 



4. JtrSTICES' CLERKS' AND OTHER LEGAL FEES. 
347. When prosecutions are instituted before a Court of Sum- Prosecution 
mary Jurisdiction, the claims for the fees to which Justices' clerks 
in England and Wales, or in Scotland procurators fiscal and officers 
of the courts, are entitled, will be paid at the time by the officer 
bringing the offender to trial and will be recovered by him from 
the command paymaster of the command in which the man's unit 
is quartered. If from any cause it is impossible to make the pay- ^-Q-^^^ 
ment at the time, a claim for the fees may be forwarded to the 
neai-est command paymaster. These claims, except in cases of 
doubt or difficulty, will be paid by the command paymaster 
without previous reference to the War Office, and the amounts 
.will be charged in his accounts, the charge being supported by 
the following vouchers : — > 

(1) A certificate of the paying officer that the payment has beer, 
made. 

(2) A statement signed by the competent military authority 
that process was applied for, or the proceedings adopted by 
him or on his behalf. 

(3) In England and Wales, a certificate of the paying officer 
that the rates charged accord with the local scale approved 
by the Home Office. . . , 

In Ireland, the procedure will be as prescribed by the Kings 
-Regulations. , , i -d 

In Scotland, the fees payable to Sherifi^ clerks and Bar 
-officers in respect of prosecutions before a Court of Summary 
Jurisdiction are regulated by the Act of Sederunt of 7th March, 
,1908, and the other fees chargeable by the Summary Jurisdiction 
j(Scotland) Act, 1908, and Schedule G appended thereto. The 
paying officer should certify accordingly. 

348. The officer who requires a copy of the civil conviction of a Fees: tor 
soldier will, when applying for the same, transmit the fee of 3s. ^^'^.'^iction 
allowed by Section 164 of the Army Act, and recover the amount and ^e- 
from the command paymaster. The fee of 2..* for the descriptive jscr^ptiye 
-■return of a deserter will, except in Ireland, where payment ismacle 
-Tinder special arrangements with the Irish Government, be payable 
in the same manner as the law charges, and the charge will 'be 
supported by a statement of the name and corps of the deserter 
and of the date on which the return was despatched to the com- 
manding officer, and by proof of payment. Thes e fees will be 

'» Fees for descriptive returns issued by the following Metropolitan -and 
City Police Courts will be paid direct by the War Othce, viz. :— 



Mansion House. 
Guildhall. 
Bow Street. 
ClerkcnwelJ. 
iSforth London. 
Lambeth. 

Great Marlbovougli Street. 
Marylebone. 



Old Street. 
Thames. 
Tower ]5ridge. 
Westminster. 
West Loudon. 
Greenwich and Woolwich. 
South-Western. 



A.O.Ti 



lyli 



Bills and Claims. 



64 



Particulars 
to be 

furnished to 
paymaster. 



A.0.199 
1911 

Prep iration 
of claims. 



Duties of 
land agent. 



Kent of 
quarters. 



Encroach- 
ments. 
A.O. 240 
1910 

Canteen 
rents. 
A.0 , 107 
1911 



Particulars 
to be 

furnished to 
paymaster. 

Bakery 
sweepings, 
manure, old 
straw, &c. 



Sales 

regulations 



paid without previous reference to the War Office, the charge 
beiug supjiorted by a certificate of tlie paying officer that payment 
has been made. Clerks of sheriff courts in Scotland are not entitled 
to the fees referred to in this paragrajili. 

5. BENTS, &c., RECEIVABLE. 

349. The responsible Eoyal Engineer officer will furnish tlie 
command paymaster with full particulars of rents receivable, 
acknowledgments for encruachmeuts, and every kind of leveiiue 
yielded by property belonging to, or in charge of, the War Depart- 
ment. He will pass the original agreements and copies of leases 
for all hirings to the command paymaster and the local auditor for 
notation. 

350. At stations where a land agent has not been appointed, or 
where the duties uf a laud agent, if appointed, do not include the 
collection of rents, &c., the command paymaster will prepare claims 
in respect of these services and call upon the parties concerned to 
make p.iyment to the cashier. 

351. At stations where a land agent has been appointed, he will, 
unless his duties have otherwise been detiued, render to the cum- 
mand paymaster a monthly account, of his receipts and disburse- 
ments (A. F. F 1952), suptjorted by a statement of sums received for 
rents, &c. (A.F. P 1952a). The account will be rendered not later 
than ten days after tlie end of the month to which it relates, and 
the agent will at the same time forward to the cashier the balance 
of the account. 

352. SuuiH due on account of rent of quarters will, when not 
deducted from the pay issuable to an officer, soldier, or other person, 
be collected by ihe command paymaster on receipt from officei-s 
in charge of barracks of returns, on A.F. O 1680, of persons liable 
and amounts payable. 

353. Acknowledgments for encroachments will be collected 
in advance on the 1st of January in each yeai\ 

I 354. The rents of canteens let to civilians will be collected quarterly 
by the command pnymastt-r on receipt of the claims (A.F. O 1680) 
- prepared by the officer in charge of barracks in accordance with the 
Kegulations for Supply, Transport and Barrack Services. 

6. SALES OP SUPPLIES, STORES, ANIMALS, &c. 

355. When a sale is authorized, or issues are made on payment, 
the officer immediately concerned will furnish the command pay- 
master with all information necessary to enable him to recover the 
amount due to the jjublie. 

356. Sums due on account of the sale of bakery sweepings and 
refuse, the sde of manure, or of old straw, will be notified for 
recovery to the comtnand paymaster, on A.F. O 1680, by the 
responsible Army Service Corps officer. 

357. Financial provisions relating to sales are laid down in the 
regulations of the service or department concerned. 



65 



Receipts and other Proof of Payment. 



SECTION v.— RECEIPTS AND OTHER PROOF 
OF PAYMENT. 



358. Keceipts for payments made by the cashier or by sub- Receipts to 
accountants will, except as provided in paragraph 359, be secured by p^a^y-"^® 
by paymastei-s, who will see that their accounts are complete in this masters, 
respect. 

359. The receipts of the payees are not required in j-espect of : — J^qu^g'^"'^ 

(a) Payments made by army agents and charged in their 
pubUc accouhts on account of emoluments of officers in 
their payment drawn under the Pay Warrant or the Allow- 
ance Regulations. 

(b) Squadron, battery, company, &c., allowances, when chai-ged 
in the monthly accounts of company, &c., commanders. 

(c) The pay and allowances of soldiers when paid by com- 
pany, &c., commanders (in the presence of the prescribed 
witnesses), and set forth in the men's accounts. 

(d) Wages of subordinates paid on the check book, or form of 
pay list, in the presence of witnesses certifying to the 
payment. 

(e) Payments made by ordinary money order ; but a reference 
to the corresponding A.F. O 1806 is required. 

( /) Payments made by postal order ; but the completed 
counterfoil, stamped by the cashier, will be furnished. 

360. When a receipt is given by a person unable to sign his ^^^^"^^^^ 
name, he will be required to make his mark in the presence of " 
some person (other than the paying officer), who will sign as a 
witness. 

361. At home stations, receipts must be stamped by the payee stamped 
whenever the money for which a receipt is given amounts to £2 or receipts, 
more (even though the actual payments may have been made in 

sums of less than £2), except : — 

(a) When the payment to an officer or soldier* is chargeable 
with income duty, or would be so chargeable if the recipient 
were not entitled to exemption from income duty. [The 
lodging allowances of regimental officers, and of such depart- A^ai99_ 
mental officers and subordinates as are not assigned to a ^ 
station for a fixed or practically fixed period, are not charge- 
able with income duty, {see Income Duty Regulations), and 
in these cases receipts for sums of £2 or over should therefore 
be stamped.] 

(6) When the payment to an officer is by way of imprest or 
advance, or in adjustment of an account, provided he derives 
no personal benefit therefrom. 

• Pensioners and army reservists employed on military duty -tuidor an| a.O.107 

officer of the regular army are to be treated as soldiers {see Army Act, I jg^g 
Section 176 (4) and (5) (rf) ). 

(b 10853) ° 



Remittances and Paymasters' Advances. 



66 



(c) When the payment is on account of travelling expenses or 
allowances, or of contingent, library, mess, miscellaneous 
stores, or office cleaning allowances, 
to "public!"^ Receipts given at home stations by cashiers and others in 

respect of moneys due to the public will not, in any circumstances, 
be stamped. 

363. Abroad, receipts will, as a rule, be stamped as required by 
the laws of the coiintry. 



Abroad. 



SECTION VI.-REMITTANCES AND 
PAYMASTERS' ADVANCES. 



Kemittance | 



1. REMITTANCES FROM ABROAD (EXCEPT INDIA). 



of pay 
and 
allowances. 

A.0. 139 
1911 



Limit of 
amount. 



Mode of re- 
mitting by 
officer or 
civilian. 
A.0. 139 



1911 

Mode of re 
mitting by 
soldier. 



I 364. Officers, soldiers, and civilian employees (including sub- 
ordinates, ex-soldiers and pensioners), serving abroad, are allowed 
(subject to paragraphs 365 to 369) to remit through the public 
accounts the savings on their pay and allowances to any person in 
the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, or in the Colonies. 
All such remittances are made by means of deduction from the 
periodical issues of pay and allowances, and paymasters are 
forbidden to receive any money for remittance. 

865. An officer or a civilian is allowed to remit each month a sum 
not exceeding the amount of his pay and half his money allowances 
for the month. 

366. An officer or a civilian wishing to make a remittance will 
transmit A.F. 0 1727 in duplicate to the paymaster, who will 
deduct the amount from the next issue of pay and allowances 
and credit it to the public under the head of " Eemittances." 



A.0. 139 
1911 



When 
soldier is 
not borne 
on com- 
pany, &c., 
pay list. 



367. A soldier borne on a squadi-on, battery, or company 
pay list, who wishes to remit money, will notify his com- 
manding officer, and will leave undrawn the balance of pay he 

I wishes to remit. At the end of each account period the amount of 
pay left undrawn, as represented by the balance standing to 
his credit in the pay list, may be remitted, or he may be 
permitted to leave his Cr. balance undrawn until lie has accu- 
mulated the sum he wishes to remit, provided such accumvdation 
shall not exceed 12 months' savings. 

368. Wlien the soldier wishes the balance on his pay account to 
be remitted, his commanding officer will notify his request to the 

-| paymaster on A.F. O 1727 in duplicate, who will credit the amount 
under the head of "Remittances," debiting the soldier in his pay 
account under the same heading. 

369. A soldier who is not borne on a squadron, battery, 
or company pay list is allowed to remit each month a sum not 
exceeding the amount of his pay for the month. He will notify 



To the command 
paymaster, Eastern 
Command. 



A.0.139 
1911 



Eesfimental officers and men 



67 Remittances and Paymasters' Advances. 

iiis wish, on A.F. 0 1727 in duplicate, to the paymaster through I A-0-139 
whom he receives his pay, who will deduct the amount to be " 
remitted from the next issue of pay, and credit it to the public 
under the head of " Eemittances." 

370. The paymaster at the station abroad will forward, as soon 

as possible after the first of each month, one copy of each A.F. I^arded^by 
0 1727 as follows :— |pay master. 

staff and departmental officers, 
and all others having no depots, 
nurses, Staff for Eoyal Engi- 
neer Services, &c. .... — 

• To the paymaster pay- 
ing pensioners and 
reservists of the unit. 
In the case of remittances by officers to their agents, the pay- ^ ^ 
master abroad will forward one copy of each A.F. 0 1727 direct — — 
to tliG ct^Gnt coucGruGcT. 

371. ' Eemittances payable in another colony should be included ^e- ^^^^^ 
in a separate A.F. 0 1727 to be forwarded direct to the paymaster 

to other 

in that colony. colonies. 

_A.0. 139 
1911 

372 On receipt of the A.F. 0 1727 the paymaster will at once (payment to 
issue the money to the remittees. Officers' remittances, and all 
remittances to firms or other persons having banking accounts, 
will be paid by draft. Other remittances will be paid by post office 
money order or postal order. Payments so made will l)e charged 
by the paymaster under the head of "Eemittances," the charges 
being supported by the A.F. 0 1727 and by proof of payment. _ | 

373. Subject to the regulations contained in the foregouig 
paragraphs, limiting the amount of pay and allowances which may 
be remitted each month, remittances may, if desired, be made 
weekly, and officers commanding and paymasters will arrange 
accordingly. 

2. REMITTANCES FROM INDIA. 

374. Family remittances from officers and others belonging to Family 
His Maiesty-s forces serving in India will be made under the ^^^^^s. 



regulations issued by the government of that country, and will not 
be included in any return rendered to the War Office. 

375. Miscellaneous remittances on the pubhc service, such a^ 
stoppages for fraudulent enlistment, debts of drafts, disallowances, 
balances on pay lists, and remittances of such other nature as ma,y 
be authorized by the War Office, will be transmitted from India m 
the following manner : — . . i 

A notification on Indian Army Form A 602, giving particulars 
of service and instructions to pay, will be sent by the divisional 
disbursing or other remitting officer in India to the paymaster 
concerned, or, in the case of a headquarter acljustment, to the 
Secretary, War Office. The amount paid will be charged by the 

(b 10853) ° 2 



Miscella- 
neous re- 
mittances. 

A.O. 107 



1910 



Remittances and Paymasters' Advances. 



68 



paymaster under the heading "Indian Government — Remittances 
from India," and will be included in the monthly schedule of 
vouchers rendered to the War Office, supported by the original 
authority to pay and by proof of payment. 

3. REMITTANCES TO INDIA. 

How 376. When payment has to be efiFected of sums due to officers, 

effected. goldiers and other persons, serving or residing in India, a notification 

giving full particulars and authority to charge will be sent, on A.F. 

O 1706, to the officer commanding the imit in which the remittee is 

I serving, or, in the case of a remittee not serving with a unit, to 
the Controller of Military Accounts of the circle, or to the Deputy 
Controller of Military Accounts in Independent Charge of the 
Division, in which the payment is to be made. It will be clearly 
shown whether the sum named is directly chargeable against 
Army Votes, or whether it is in respect of a credit given in the 
account to meet the amount of the remittance. If the sum is 
chargeable to Army Votes, the paymaster will certify on the 
notification that tlie amount has not been and will not be charged 
in his accounts, and will state the head of service chargeable after 
payment has been made. 
•^•^^J^ — I 37eA. In no circumstances will a duplicate A.F. 0 1706 be 
I issued without previous reference to the War Office. 
caseT.^^ When a sum is due to a remittee in India, and payment 

by the above method is found impracticable, the remitting 
paymaster should report the facts to the War Office. 



Cases in 
which one 
jjaymaster 
requests 
another to 
pay or give 
credit on his 
behalf. 



When the 
whole, or 
any portion, 
cannot be 
adjusted. 



4. ADJUSTMENT BY MEANS OF PAYMASTERS' 
ADVANCES. 

378. Payments made or sums credited to the public by one 
paymaster on behalf of another will be adjusted in the manner laid 
down in paragraphs 379 to 391. 

(a) Between Paymasters at Home, except those rendering: 
accounts to the same liocal Auditor. 

379. When one paymaster wishes to remit to another a sum to 
be paid on his behalf or credited to the public, he will notify the 
amount on A.r. 0 1682, and will at once credit the amoxmt in 
the classified abstract book under the heading " Paymasters' 
Advances." The paymaster making the payment or giving credit 
to the public will charge the amount against "Paymasters' 
Advances." 

380. If a paymaster receives an A.F. 0 1682 of which he can 
only adjust a part, he will charge the whole amount and make chat 
portion which he is unable to adjust the subject of a separate 
transaction under " Paj'masters' Advances." In the event of his 
being unable to adjust any portion, he will not make any charge 
in respect of the paymaster's advance, but will return it to the 
sender, or, if he knows the paymaster who can adjust it, will 



69 Remittances and Paymasters' Advances. 

forward it to such paymaster. For the information of the War 
Office all paymasters' advances so dealt with will be entered at 
the end of A.F. O 1685, the station to which the paymaster's 
advance is forwarded being entered in the last column. 

381. When a paymaster, without having been previously made'or ^ 
requested to do so, has made a payment or credited the public credits 
with a sum on behalf of another paymaster, he will notify the ^'j^^out the 
amount to such paymaster on A.F. 0 1682. The paymaster request ot 

1 receiving this form will, if satisfied that it is correct, credit the 

: amount in the classified abstract book under the heading paymaster. 

' " Paymasters' Advances," complete the " reply " portion of the 

! form, and return it to the other paymaster concerned, who will 

I then chai-ge the amount against " Paymasters' Advances." 

382. A.F. O 1682 will not, in any circumstances, be made out in Forms not 
duplicate. If the original is lost, the charge must be supported by out in™* * 
a certificate to that effect, and a reference to the account in which duplicate. 

I the per contra credit was promised. 

383. The paymaster for whom a payment has been made or an ^^^^^jg 

: amount has been credited to the public will include such payment " • 
i or amount in a schedule, A.F. O 1686, which will be rendered 

with his monthly account. The paymaster making the payment 
I or giving credit to the public will similarly include the amount 

in a schedule, A.F. O 1685. Each entry in A.F. 0 1685 will be ^^^^^^^ 

supported by a voucher on A.F. O 1682. 

384. A charge in respect of paymasters' advances is not to be Charges, 
made in an account for a period before that in which credit for the 
amount is promised. „ . 

385. Care should be taken to give such information as will lead formation 
at once to the identification of the amount on account of which the to be given. 

remittance is made. , • , . i Fractional 

386. Fractional parts of a penny will not be inserted in the total pg^^ts of a 

of A.F. O 1682, nor in A.Fs. 0 1686 and O 1685. penny to be 

' excluded. 

(b) Between Paymasters at Home and Paymasters Abroad 

(except India). 

• 11 1 J. J- i i Toandfrom 

387. The foregoing instructions will apply to adjustments abroad. 

between a paymaster at home and a paymaster abroad, or between 
two paymaster abroad. 

(c) Between Paymasters who render accounts to the same 

Local Auditor. 

388. Adjustments between paymasters who render accounts to ^^^^^J,"^;, 
the same local auditor will be carried out locally, the necessary 
clearance being effected by the local auditor. The foregoing 
instructions will be followed so far as they are applicable. 

389. Paymasters will prepare separate schedules on A.F. |ciieauie8, 
0 1685 and A.F. 0 1686 for items dealt with locally, and these 

forms will be marked in red ink with the word " Local. The 
totals of these Schedules will be carried to Form 2 of the paymaster s 
general state, A.F. N 1606. Paymasters will also, when sending 

I (b 10853) ° ^ 



Non-Eftective Estates. 



70 



When 
unable to 
adjust. 



War Office 
adjustment 



an A.F. O 1682 to another paymaster in the same command, 
clearly mark it " Local " in red ink. 

390. Should a paymaster be unable to adjust a "Local" pay- 
mastei''s advance, he may pass it to another paymaster in the same 
command if the latter is able to adjust it, but if not he should 
make it the subject of a separate transaction under paymasters' 
advances. Under no circumstances should a paymaster's advance 
marked " Local " and scheduled as " Local " be converted into a 
War Office paymaster's advance or sent to a jmymaster in another 
command. 

391. Should a paymaster's advance originally credited in a War 
Office schedule be returned to the sender or passed to a paymaster 
in the same command as the sender for adjustment, it should be 
charged on a War Office schedule and not be treated :is a local 
paymaster's advance. 



SECTION VII.— NON-EFFECTIVE ESTATES. 



1. GENERAL. 

Effects and 392. The manner in which the effects and credits of deceased 
^o^be*co^"^ officers and soldiers, of soldiers dischai-ged as insane, of desertei-s, 
lected, &o. and of men sentenced to imprisonment on conviction of felony, are 
to be collected and accounted for is prescribed in the Regimental 
Debts Act and the Eoyal Warrants of 30th August, 1893, 
20th October, 1904, and 23rd May, 1906, with the regulations 
thereunder. 

2. NON-EFFECTIVE ACCOTTNTS OF MEN OF THE 
REGTJIiAR FORCES AND THE SPECIAIi RESERVE. 

J^s^s^uf be ^ non-effective account (A.F. O 1625) will be prepared with 

prepared, as little delay as possible for every soldier (except an absconded 
recruit) who becomes non-effective by death, desertion, or discharge 
on account of insanity, or who is sentenced to penal servitude or to 
be discharged with ignominy. In the case of a soldier becoming 
non-effective from other causes than these, a non-efiective account 
will only be prepared when a Dr. balance is chargeable against 
the public. When articles of necessaries are left behind, a 
deserter's account will not be finally closed until such articles have 
been disposed of in accordance witli the C!lothing Eegulatious. 
If, in the meantime, the accounts of the unit to which the deserter 
belongs are transferred to another paymaster, a non-effective 
account, completed as far as possible, will be transmitted with 
the accounts, and the ]mymaster of the new station will, in due 
course, secure credit for the amount realised by the disposal of 
the necessaries, and complete the non-effective account. 



71 Non-Effective Estates. 



394. When a soldier serving abroad is sentenced to be discharged Abroad, 
wdth ignominy, or when there is a debtor balance on the accounts 

lof a soldier serving abroad who is sent home to be discharged in 
cconsequence of his incorrigible and worthless character, or on 
^account of misconduct, or for having given a false answer on 
iiattestation, or on conviction by the civil power, a non-effective 
saccount will be prepared up to the date of embarkation for 
EEngland. The debtor balance will be adjusted in the same 
imanner as the balances of men transferred, and the non-effective i 
saccountwill be attached to the statement of accounts, A.F. O 1812. | 
.'Any debt remaining unrecovered on discharge will be charged 
.lagainst the public by the paymaster of the station at which the 
I [discharge is carried out. Any credit balance on the non-effective 
iiaccount of a man sentenced to be discharged with ignominy will be 
ccredited to the public, and reported for issue to the man in the 
iimanner provided in paragraph 407. 

395. When the non-elFective account of a deserter has been °" 
. completed, the paymaster will prepare a certificate (on A.F. effective 
(.0 1624), in duplicate, showing the balance thereon, whether Dr., 

iCr., or nil, and the period and designation of the account with 
'which the non-effective account was rendered. One copy will be 
tfoi-warded to each of the officers in charge of the attestations. Any 
ssubsequent alteration in the balance should be reported to the officers 
iin charge of the man's attestations, and duly recorded in the certi- 
rficate. At home stations, the certificates of the officers in charge of the 
coriginal and duplicate attestations to the effect that the paymaster's 
ccertificates have been attached to the attestations, will be annexed to 
tthe non-effective accovmt. At stations abroad, the certificate of the 
officer in charge of the duplicate attestation will be sufficient. 

396. When an army reservist convicted of improper enlistment ^^^^''^J,''^; 
i into the army, or convicted, while in receipt of special reserve pay, army 

fof improper enlistment into the special reserve, is relegated to the reserve, 
flarmy reserve, a non-effective account will be prepared in dupli- 
I'cate, showing the man's name and regiment as a reservist. One 
ccopy will be annexed to the account in support of tlie charge of the 
c debtor balance, and the other will be forwarded, together with A.F.. 
(0 1812, to the paymHster charged with the payment of the army| 
: reservist, in order that the debtor balance may be recovered 
i from the future issues of reserve pay. 

397. The non-effective account of a soldier will not be charged 0^>y „«^™' 

' with any sum recoverable under the sentence of a court-martial or p^i^iic to be 
'Order of the commanding officer, unless such sum is due to the cha.'ged m 
[public. Any sura otherwise due will only be charged against the g^fgotive 
1 non-effective account in so far as such sum shall be recoverable from account, 
t the estate without entailing a charge against the public. , ^, ^u. 

398. The non-effective account of a soldier will not be charged Clothing, or 
' with the cost of clothing or necessaries issued on payment or ot 

I repairs to clothing and necessaries executed before he became non- 
effective, unless the articles shall have been supplied, or the repairs 
« executed, in the account period during which the man became non- 

(b 10853) ° 



Non-Effective Estates. 



72 



In what 
cases to be 
prepared for 
special 
reservist. 



A.O. 280 



1913 



Soldiers 
dying at 
sea. 
A.0.132 

1913 



j effective. In all cases a certificate signed by the company, &c., com- 
mander, showing that the articles were actually issued from the 
quarter-master's or other public .stores, or that the work was jjer- 
formed by his order, and giving the date of issue or execution, will be 
annexed to the non-effective account. When the articles are not 
provided from public stores, the charges will be vouched by the 
certificate of the company, &c., commander, showing from what 
store they were issued, and will be accompanied by the tradesman's 
receipt. 

399. A non-effective account will be prepared for every special 

reservist who — 

{a) is in debt at the end of recruit drill, or through forfeiture or 
suspension of bounty at the end of training ; or, who, during 
recruit drill, or training 
(6) deserts, 
(c) dies, 

{(t) is discharged on account of insanity, or 
(e) is discharged for misconduct or with ignominy. 
In cases {a) and (6) the non-effective account will be prepared 
in duplicate, and both copies will be sent to the adjutant of the 
unit, who will place the duplicate with the man's documents as a 
record of his liability, certify in red ink on the first page of the 
original that he has done so, and retm-n the original to be 
rendered in support of the charge of the debtor balance in the pay 
list. In case (c) any credit balance on the non-effective account 
will be paid to the man's legal representatives, their receipts being 
annexed as a voucher, or, if the representatives are unknown, the 
I balance will be credited to the public. In case {d) the balance 
'will be disposed of as laid down in the case of Army Reserve pay 
in para. 199. When a special reservist rejoins from desertion 
within three years of the date of the offence, the adjutant will be 
responsible that the man's liability is brought to the notice of the 
officer commanding the company to which he is reposted. The 
duplicate non-effective account will also be forwarded with the pay 
list containing the first charge for pay after the man has rejoined. 

1 400. The non-effective account of a soldier dying at sea, will 
be rendered by the paymaster of the unit which the soldier would 
have joined. 



3. REPORT OF EFFECTS OF DECEASED AND INSANE 

SOLDIERS. 

Report to 401. As soon as the paymaster lias completed the non-effective 
War Office, account he will at once forward to the War Office, on 
A.F. 0 1815, a statement of the amount due, with the other 

Particulars required by the form. As payment of the amount may 
e at once made by the War Office on this information, it is 
necessary that the greatest care be taken to secure its absolute 
accuracy. It should be clearly underetood that no payment on 
account of any estate under paragraphs 404-406 sliouid be made 



Non-Effective Estates. 



1911 



Effects 
above £100. 



Brfects 
under £100. 
When there 
is a will. 



When there 
is not a will. 



after the amount due has once been reported, on A.F. 0 1815, as 
available for issue by the War Office. 

402. Paymasters will render with their monthly accounts a Monthly 
sschedule on A.F. N 1509, of the sums credited to the public schedule of 
on account of tlie effects of deceased or insane soldiers, or issued ^^^1^^^^ 
tto deceased soldiers' representatives present with the unit. The non- effects, 
^effective accounts will be attached to the schedule as vouchers. A.o. 139 

4. DISTRIBTTTION OF SOLDIERS' ESTATES. 

403. Whenever the amount of personal property left by a 
.deceased soldier dying in the United Kingdom or the Colonies 
^exceeds £100, no payment on account thereof vnll be made either 
tto his leo-atees or next-of-kin without special instructions from the 

>War Office. „ , , , ^ 

404. When the amount does not exceed £100, and the deceased 
lhas left a will, which it is not intended to prove, the proportions 

due to such legatees as are present with the corps may, with the 
written consent of the executors (if any) appointed by the will, be 
I paid to such legatees at once. 

405. If no will is left, and letters of administration are not 
1 intended to be taken out the amount will be issuable to the next-of- 
ikin according to the Statutes of Distribution, and, should any of 
ithe persons so entitled be present with the corps at the time of the 
, death of the intestate soldier, the proportions due to such claimants 
1 respectively may be paid at once if there be no doubt as to the 
' validity of the claim. Unless an officer is satisfied that correct 
i information is before him as to the soldier's next-of-kin, the 
1 balance of his estate should be remitted to the War Office. 

406. The instructions contained in para. 404 and 405 are not 
, applicable in the case of soldiers domiciled in Scotland, the Is e of 

Man, the Channel Islands, or Malta. In these cases the who e of 
1 the effects will be accounted for to the War Office, with the foUow- 
iing exceptions :—(l) When the widow is present with the unit 
i and the total balance does not exceed lOOL, and it is not intended 

• to obtain probate or administration, then (a) if the soldier was 
, domiciled in Scotland, one third, or, if he was childless and leaves 

no will in favour of any person other than the widow, the whole 
may be paid to the widow ; (b) if the soldier was domiciled m 
. Guernsey or Alderney, one third, or, if he was childless one-half 

• may be paid to the widow whether he leaves a will or not ; {G)it 
i he was domiciled in the Isle of Man, one-half may be paid to the 

widow. (2) In cases of Maltese domicile, the whole amount, it 
not exceeding 100^., may be paid to the persons entitled thereto 
under the law of Malta, if the corps and all the persons entitled 
are in Malta. 

6 PRIVATE PROPERTY OP SOLDIERS SENTENCED TO 
PENAL SERVITUDE OR IMPRISONMENT. 
407. When articles of private property belonging to a soldier 
sentenced to penal servitude, imprisonment or detention are sold 
under the authority contained in the King's Eegulations, the 



Soldiers 
domiciled 
in Scotland, 

of Man, 
Channel 
Islands or 
Malta. 

A.O. 291 



1911 



Proceeds 
|of sale. 



Active Service. 



74 



proceeds, together with any money belonging to the soldier, will be 
credited to the public in the accounts of the unit to which he 
belongs. If a European is sentenced abroad and sent home to 
serve the period of his sentence, he should be directed on his 
release to make application to the War OfKce for the amount 
credited. In cases where immediate payment is desirable, the 
amount will be remitted to the commandant of the detention 
barrack or the governor of the prison on his application. Sums so 
remitted will be paid to the men concerned at the time of their 
release, and their receipts will be obtained and forwarded to the 
paymaster. In all other cases the man should apply to the pay- 
master of the unit, who will give instructions for the payment 
of the amount due. The charges will be supported by a reference 
to the original credit. 



SECTION VIII.— ACTIVE SERVICE. 

Note.— F.S.E., Part II, Chap. XV, contains instructions 
relating to pay and accounting abroad during active service 
for officers generally, and must be read by paymasters in 
conjunction with this section, which includes only depart- 
mental instructions. 



Part I.— THEATRE OF OPERATIONS. 



A.— GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS, 

408. This section contains special arrangements for certain 
classes of accounting in which it is foreseen that the ordin:u-y 
arrangements are unsuitable. It may prove necessary to make 
special arrangements in some other instances (see para. 417), but 
generally. Sections I to VII will be observed so far as practiciible. 

Paymasters should recognise that while war conditions may 
justify some relaxation of formal requirements, and even render it 
impossible in particular cases to follow the normal procedure of 
vouching, &c., this renders it essential that they should exercise 
an especially vigilant scrutiny of the merits of transactions with 
which they deal, and should endeavour to obtain all practicable 
security for the correctness of accounts without undue burdening 
of those engaged in warfare. 

409. Observations and correspondence should be reduced to a 
minimum, especially when addressed to officers in the active area 
and during the progress of military operations. In such cases 
paymasters should exercise their discretion in passing items on 



75 



Active Service. 



Unautho- 
rized claims 
during war. 



which trifling observatiojis may arise, or in more important matters, 
of postponing an observation until latei', pi'ovided that such delay 
is not likely to prejudice the imprest holder. When original 
vouchers are received in a pay oflace, they should not again be 
sent out under observation unless it is impossible to explain an 
observation without attaching the voucher. 

410. The duty of a paymaster to refuse to make a payment 
which, in his opinion, is not authorized by regulations, or is 
otherwise iueorrect or irregular, is in no way abrogated by 
the existence of active service conditions, On receipt of such a 
claim the paymaster-in-chief will obtain the decision of the Q.M.G., 
who, if he desires payment to be made, will give the paymaster- 
in-chief a written order to do so. The paymaster-in-chief in that 
event will comply with the order and will I'eport the case depart- 
mentally to the Accounting Officer at the War Office, or to his 
representative in the theatre of operations. 

411. If such a claim is recpived by a paymaster in charge of an 
office at a distance from the base, who is not in touch with the 
paymaster-in-chief, and a G.O.C., after considering the paymaster's 



objections, orders in writing immediate payment on military 
grounds, the paymaster will comply with the order, reporting the 
case at the earliest practicable opportunity to the paymaster-in- 
chief. The order for payment should explain briefly the objections 
to delaying payment pending reference of the case for the decision 
of the Q.M.G. On this decision being given the paymaster-in- 
chief will, if necessary, repoi't the case as indicated in the 
preceding paragraph. 

412. If a paymaster is requested to make an advance on imprest 
for which no prior authority has been obtained, and the service and 
amount both appear reasonable, he may make the issue forthwith. 
If, however, any doubt is felt as to the propriety of the issue, the 
applicant will be requested to obtain the G.O.CVs authority before 
the imprest account is opened unless the urgency of the case pre- 
cludes this course, when the paymaster must use his discretion in 
making the issue, subject to covering authority. A field cashier 
making such an issue will at once report the circumstances to the 
pay m a ster-in-chief . 

413. If in his examination of vouchers or other documents it 
appears to a paymaster that expenditure is being incurred which 
might be reduced or checked by a change in administrative 
methods, or if he is of opinion that owing to the wording 
contract or informal agreement, or for any other reason, unnecessary 
expenditure is taking place, even though such expenditure may be 
technicallv correct and in order he will draw the attention of the 
local head"' of the department to the matter. In important cases he 
will also make a report of the circumstances, with his suggestions 
thereon, to the paymaster-in-chief, who will use his discretion as 
to calling attention to the subject, 



Disposal of 
unautho- 
rized claims 
if pay- 
master is 
isolated. 



Issues on 
imprest in 
absence of 
prior 

authority. 



Financial 
observa- 
tions on 
administra- 
tive 

methods. 



I 



Active Service. 



76 



Objects to 
which war 
Drganiza- 
tion is 
directed. 



Classes of 
offices to be 
established. 



Paymaster- 
in-ehief 
responsible 
for whole 
organiza- 
tion. 



Pi ymaster- 
in-chief to 
give advice 
on pay and 
accounting 
to organize 
pay offices ; 
to bring 
expenditu 



ire 



and receipts 
promptly to 
account. 



B — ORGANIZATION. 

414. The general organization of the Army Pay Department 
abroad in war time is directed to : — 

(a) The ready and safe supply of casli, when and wherever 
required. 

{b) The supply of necessary information to enable the soldiers' 

pay records to be completed (normally at home), 
(c) The prompt examination and disposal of claims, &c. 

415. The following offices will be established in the area of 
operations (working in conjunction with the fixed centre pay 
offices at home) : — 

A paymaster-in-chief's office, controlling : — 

(i) A command pay office. 

(ii) A clearing house. 

(iii) A base cashier. 

(iv) A field cashier attached to each division, &c. 

Additional offices for command services and cash duties may be 
established at other points at the discretion of the paymaster-in- 
chief if the extent of the area of operations, or the difficulties 
of communication render it advisable. Regimental offices for 
compilation of the men's accounts will only be established if 
specially ordered when mobilization takes place. 

416. The whole organization will be under the authority of the 
paymaster-in-chief appointed in the case of large operations, or in 
the case of smaller operations, of a command paymaster at the base 
acting as paymaster-in-chief. 



C— DUTIES. 

(i) Paymast&)'-in-ch%ef. 

417. The paymaster-in- chief will advise the C.-in-C. and G.Os.C. 
on all matters of pay and accounting, and on such other questions 
as may be referred to him. He will be charged with the organiza- 
tion of the Army Pay Department within the area of operations, 
and will, under the orders of the C.-in-C, ai'i-ange the distribution 
of the personnel and the situation of the different pay offices, with 
the exception of the locality and movements of field cashiers 
definitely appointed to divisions, &c., which will be decided by the 
officer commanding the force to which the field cashier is appointed. 
He will be charged with the general supervision of pay and cash 
accounting services and will watch the working of the system 
generally, and will endeavour to find practical remedies for any 
defects disclosed. He will pay special personal attention to secur- 
ing that suitable provision is made for accounting for any unusual 
services. He will be respcmsible that expenditure and receipts are 
brought to account as promptly as possible. He will render the 
account to the local auditor, and a return of actual receipts and 



77 



Active Service. 



expenditure on A.F. N 1458 to the War Office, as early as prac- 
ticable each month. 

418. He will exercise the saroe direct supervision over, and 
apply the same checks to, the books of the cashier as a command 
paymaster does in peace time. 

419. Instructions as to the manner in which funds will be 
obtained will be issued by the War Office. Should it be decided 
to make provision through the Treasury Chest, the paymaster-in- 
chief will be the Treasury Chest Officer, and although he will not 
keep the account but depute an officer for that purpose, he will be 
responsible for its general supervision. 

420. A war diary as laid down in Field Service Eegulations, 
Part II, Section 140, will be kept by the paymaster-in-chief and 
by such other paymasters as may be directed to do so by the War 
Office, or by the paymaster-in-chief. The diaries of subordinate 
paymasters will be rendered direct to the paymaster-in-chief and 
forwarded with his diary. The points to which particular attention 
should be paid are important financial rulings and decisions and 
abnormal authorities. 

(ii) Paymaster ijo command services. 

421. The paymaster i/c command services will be responsible for 
the payment of, and accounting for, all army services throughout 
the area of operations except those connected with the ledger 
accounts compiled by fixed centre paymasters. He will pay all 
local and temporary emoluments and allowances, and will keep the 
accounts of locally raised and colonial corps in active serv^e 
ledgers unless otherwise decided by the paymaster-m-chief. He 
will prepare a general state of accounts for the whole of the war 
area. 

(iii) Paymaster i/c clearing house. 

422. The paymaster i/c clearing house will open a ledger account 
with each field and sub-cashier, with each imprest holder, and with 
each fixed centre paymaster. The balances on these accounts will 
be carefully watched, in order to ensure that they are cleared 
without undue delay. , ■^^ j. ^ ^ 

423. On receipt of the imprest accounts, he will extract any mus 
or claims not pre-audited by the paymaster i/c command services 
and forward them to that officer for examination and return. 

424. He will secure that : — 

(i) Acquittance rolls are checked to see— 

(a) That no individual serial number is missing. 

(b) That proof of payment is given. 

(c) That they are cleg-ically correct. 

(ii) The totals are posted up in the ledgers to the credit of the 

imprest holders. , a^^A 

(iin The rolls are despatched without delay to the faxecl 
^ ^ centre paymaster with a covering P.M.A. for acceptance 



Paymaster- 
in-chief to 
supervise 
cashier 
directly. 

Supply of 
funds. 



Keeping 
and scope 
of war 
diaries. 



Nature of 
command 
services. 



Ledger ac- 
counts with 
cashiers and 
imprest 
holders. 



Disposal of 

imprest 

vouchers. 

Cheek and 
disposal of 
acquittance 
rolls. 



Active Service. 



78 



Pending the acceptance of tlie charges by P.M.A., the disburse- 
ments made on acquittance rolls will be debited to the account of 
the fixed centre paymaster concerned. 

425. In the event of erroneous entries in acquittance rolls being 
notified to him, he will carry out their adjustment, and the 
verification or tracing of doubtful names, through the A.G. at the 
base. 

When extracts from acquittance rolls are necessarily made for 
transmission to different paymasters, cross references will be given 
on each to the acquittance roll on which proof of payment will l>e 
found. A cross reference should also be given on the oiiginal 
acquittance roll to show how the extracts have been disposed of. 

426. He will remit by P.M. A. to the fixed centre paymaster 
any cash given up in an imprest account recovered by the medical 
authorities from a soldier on admission to hospital. 

Any cash similarly recovered from an officer will be credited to 
a suspense account pending an application for its repayment or 
instructions otherwise directing its disposal. The apphcation will 
be supported by the medical officer's receipt. 

427. He will render an account of his transactions to the pay- 
master i/c command services for incorporation in the general 
account. 

(iv) The base cashier. 

428. The base cashier will obtain funds under ari'angements to 
be made b}' the paymaster-in-chief under instructions from the 
War Office. 

429. He will be responsible for the custody and distribution of 
the cash required for the army in the field. His duties in war are 
similar to those in peace, in the absence of special instructions to 
the contrary, and he will keep the same books, use the same 
forms, and make the same returns. He will arrange for the supply 
of specie, or will make the necessary arrangements with local 
banks for a supply of specie, to field and sub- cashiers and to 
imprest holders. He will, whenever the issue of specie is not 
essential, effect the settlement of all claims, &c., by cheque. 

430. He will, acting under the immediate orders and super- 
vision of the paymaster-iu-chief, have the custody of the cash in 
the Treasury chest, but will under no circumstances keep the 
Treasury chest account. 

431. He will have the custody of A.B. 384 (rations on repay- 
ment) and will issue the same on payment to press correspondents 
and other civilians pei'mitted to accompany the army, notifying such 
issues to the paymaster i/c command services. 

432. If a paymaster is temporarily ajDpointed to act as cashier 
at the commencement of a campaign prior to the opening of the 
paymaster-in-chiefs office, he will retain his recoi'ds and vouchers 
for incorporation in the first account of the base cashier on his 
arrival. 



79 



Active Service. 



(v) Field cashier. 

433. A field cashier will be supplied with funds by the base 
cashier on requisition, for the purpose of making payments on 
imprest to all officers who are, or can establish a claim to become, 
imprest holders, all such issues being notified by him daily on 
A F 0 1817 to the paymaster i/c clearing house. He will also 
make such payments as requested on A.F. O 1818 by the paymaster 
i/c command services, but no others, except as provided m para. 
434. In order to minimise the risk of loss of documents, A.F. O 
1818 when sent to a field cashier will not be accompanied by 

vouchers. . 

434. In very exceptional circumstances, when communication 
with the base is impracticable, he may make payments if the O.C. 
troops certifies that delay would be prejudicial on mihtary 

^'^435!^^He is required to take all reasonable steps to establish the 

identity of a payee. ^ r -^v n 

436 He will accept and bring to account forthwith all sums 
tendered, whether by officers, soldiers or civilians, in payment of 
public claims for stores, clothing, forage, rations, &c., or on account 
of refunds stated to be due to the public. He will also accept 
sums handed in by an Army Post Office for credit to the Post- 
master-General. Whenever possible he should secure a copy of 
A F 0 1680 prepared by the department concerned, or a Mb 
voucher with sufficient information as to the nature of the trans 
action to assist identification. . . -,1, x 

437 He will under no circumstances again pay out, either to 
the person from whom he received it or to any other person, any 
sum which he has received, except on the order of the paymaster- 
in-chief or the paymaster i/c command services. , ^ :w 

438 He will keep a cash book, which will be balanced daily, 
and will render to the paymaster i/c clearing house a weekly state- 
ment of accounts on A.F. N 1531a of all transactions accompanied 
by the necessary vouchers and cash requisitions. Separate returns 
should be rendered for the portions of a week occurring at the 
end of one month and the beginning of the next 

439 When a field cashier is ordered by the G.O.C. of the force 
to which he is attached, or is otherwise oj^^'ged, to move his head- 
quarters, he will immediately report the fact, by telegiaph it 
possible, to the paymaster-in-chief. 

(vi) Paymaster i/c regimental services. 

440. If on mobilization it is specially ordered that the pay 
accounts of soldiers shall be compiled at the base a Pay™^«^^^^^^ 
regimental services will be appointed and ^e.^^" responsiW^ 
fnr all accounting duties connected therewith. He will receive 
from the fixed centre paymaster the active sei-vice ledger accounts 



Nature of 
field 
cashier's 
payments. 



Urgency 
payment*. 



Identity of 
payee^ 

Receipt of 
and bring- 
ing to I 
account all 
public cash. 



Cash once 
received not 
to be paid 
out without 
authority. 

Books and' 
accounts to 
be kept. _ 



Field 
cashier to 
report his 
moves. 



Duties if 
appointed. 



Active Service. 



80 



(A.F. N 1507), compiled from the date of embarkation, and in so 
far as tliey are applicable, he will follow the instructions laid down 
in Part 2, « C." 



PART 2 —HOME STATIONS. 



A.— COMMAND PAYMASTEK. 

441. A command paymaster will make all necessary arrange- 
ments to ensure the satisfactoiy carrying out of the duties which 
fall upon paymasters in the command on and during mobilization. 
He will, on mobilization, continue to deal with all command 
services in his area as in peace, and with any augmentation of such 
services due to mobilization conditions. 

441a. He will secure that claims presented in respect of horses 
purchased on mobilization are met without delay. Be will collate, 
as far as possible, the A.B. 390 with A.F. N 1547 and i-eceipts 
(A.B. 394) forwarded daily by horse purchasers and will verifv 
the serial numbers of the claims and the purchasers' signature.s. 
The object of the check is to provide reasonable security against 
fraud. Minor discrepancies may be ignored if the claim appears 
genuine, and he will not refuse to honour claims unless there is 
reasonable cause to doubt their bona fides. 

In any case of reasonable doubt the command paymaster should 
refer by telegram to the Deputy Assistant Director of the Remount 
Circle. 

B.— CASHIER, 

442. A cashier will continue to carry out the duties as.3igned to 
him in peace, together with any augmentation of such duties due 
to mobilization conditions. 

443. He will issue such special imprests as may be authorized 
by the command paymaster, and imprests required for the payment 
of mobilized Special Reserve and Territorial Force units quartered 
in his command. 

C— FIXED CENTRE PAYMASTER. 

444. A fixed centre paymaster will, on mobilization, continue to 
keep pay lists on A.F. N. 1505a, for all regular units in his pay- 
ment up to and for the date preceding embarkation, and will open 
pay lists in A.F. N 1505a for mobilized Special Reserve units 
while serving at home ; also for Ammunition Columns, for " Details 
left at the Base," and for specially raised corps allotted to his centre, 
for the period between date of formation, mobilization, or being 
called up, and the day preceding embarkation. The pay lists of 
Special Reserve units will be checked forward from the last Ti-aining 
pay lists rendered. 



81 



Active Service. 



445. In the case of other units (such as headquarter units) 
formed on mobilization, separate pay lists will not be opened. 
During the period between the date of mobilization being ordered 
and the date of embarkation, soldiers posted to such units will 
continue on the pay of the units to which they pi-eviously belonged. 
From the date of embarkation inclusive they will be transferred 
to an active service ledger account of their own corps. 

446. He will j'eceive monthly for examination the pay lists on 
A.F. N 1451a, supported by a pay and mess book (A.F. N 1504a) 
and the Officers' pay list for pay and allowances (A.F. N 1450a), 

I of all embodied T.F. units, the procedure laid down in the 
' Instructions in Pay Duties for the Guidance of Adjutants, &c., 
( of the T.F. on Embodiment," being followed as far as possible. 

447. He will forward to the County Associations the claims 
I (A.F. E 668) for separation allowance admitted for the last 
I training. • 

448. From the date of embarkation inclusive he will keep the 
pay accounts of all soldiers in his payment who go abroad, in an 
active service ledger account (A.F. N 1507), which will be kept 
open, if necessary, for the whole period of the war. He will, on 
receipt of the pay and mess book, close the men's accounts in the 
peace pay lists to the day preceding embarkation, and record in 
the ledger any balance due to or from each man, and the net rate 
of pay (after providing for allotments) to which he is entitled. 
He will at the same time notify the paymaster i/c clearing house 
of the balance due by or to the Captain, for adjustment by P.M.A. 
Active service ledger accounts will similarly be opened for regular 
units proceeding on active service from colonial stations, which will 
be transferred to their fixed centre paymaster from the date of 
embarkation at the colonial port. 

449. In the case of drafts, the men's accounts will noti be 
closed in the peace pay list until the paymaster is notified of the 
company, &c., of the unit abroad to which the men have been 

1 posted. No pay, however, will be charged therein beyond the date 
preceding embarkation. Charges on acquittance rolls received 
before an account is opened in the active service ledger should be 
recorded provisionally in the peace pay list in red ink. 

450. After closing a reservist's account in the pay list (A.l. 
N 1534) he will debit him on A.F. O 1814 with the sums referred 
to in paras. 451-454, and transfer the balance to the peace pay list 
of the unit which the man has joined, and on which he will be paid 
pending embarkation. . , 

451. He will on receipt from O.i/c Eecords of the nominal 
I rolls (A.F. D 442) of reservists and special reservists who have 

joined, forthwith issue the advances of pay to families, referred to 
I in the Mobilization Regulations, as shown thereon, in the manner 
laid down in para. 452. ... .,, , 

452. Advances of pay to families of reservists on joining will he 
issued by regimental paymasters direct by postal orders supplied 



Heservists 
to be trans- 
ferred on 
A.F. 0 1814. 



Advances 
pf pay to 
families 
to be issued 
at once. 



Mode of 
issue of 
family 
advances. 



Active Service. 



82 



to them in bulk by the General Post Office, London, under 
arrangements made by the War Office, when mobilization is 
ordered. These orders may only be used for the purpose of these 
advances. They are payable without an identity certificate, and 
will not require to be stamped at the local post office, the pay office 
date stamp as used for army money orders being accepted by the 
postal authorities. The postal orders will be kept as directed in 
sara. 250. After the insertion of the payee's name and the office 
at which payable, the order will be initialed and stamped as in the 
case of an army money order (para. 257), and despatched to the 
remittee accompanied by A.F. O 1726. The order will not be 
crossed for payment through a bank. If the paymaster finds his 
supply of postal orders for any denomination likely to be insufficient, 
le will apply to the "War Office for a further stock. The amounts 
remitted will be charged to the reservist's pay account on A.F. 
0 1814, and credited per contra to the account of the Postmaster- 
General (Mobilization Postal Orders). As soon as mobilization is 
complete the paymaster will return all unused postal orders to the 
General Post Office, and inform the War Office of the value so 
returned. 

453. He will charge the account of each reservist on A.F. O 1814, 
with 3s. advance of pay, making a subsequent refund if it appears 
that the voucher for that advance has not been used and is returned 
with the identity certificate. The amounts so charged will be 
credited per contra to the account of the Postmaster-General 
(Mobilization Joining Advances). 

454. He will charge the reservist's pay account on A.F. O 1814, 
with any other stoppages due. 

455. He will deal with the National health insurance cards of 
all soldiers proceeding on active service as necessai7, affixing the 
required stamps when due, opening new cards on the expiration of 
the old ones and transmitting to the Approved Societies or to the 
Commissioners of the Navy and Army Fund the completed cards. 

He will also supply such information as may be required for the 
proper continuance of each man's insurance record. Stamps will 
be obtained from the cashier and a special ledger account opened. 
The contributions due from the men will be charged against their 
accounts through the active service ledger account (A.F. N 1507). 

456. He will be responsible for recording against the soldier's 
name in the active service ledger account his cash advances as 
shown on the acquittance rolls rendered to him from the base, at 
the same time charging the pay vote with the amount so debited, 
supported by the rolls. He will then complete and accept the 
covering P.M.A., and return it to the paymaster i/c clearing house 
to enable that officer to clear his books. . 

457. If an acquittance roll contains the name of any man who is 
not in his payment but whose identity is clear he will send an 
extract to the paymaster concerned and adjust by P.M.A., in such 
case accepting the original P.M. A. in full. If, however, a name or 
unit cannot be identified he will make an exti-act for the informa- 



Heservists 
joining 
advance to 
be charged 
forthwith. 



Keservists" 

other 

charges. 



Eecord of 
cash pay- 
ments in 
ledger 
accounts. 



Acquittance 
roll adjust- 
ment when 
another 
paymaster 
is involved 



83 



Active Service. 



; tion of the paymaster i^c clearing house and accept only the balance 
of the P.M.A. The matter will then be settled by the paymaster 
1 ijc clearing honse. 

458. He will, on receipt of a P.M.A. from the base on account of 
I cash recovered by the medical authorities from a soldier admitted 
I to hospital, credit the amount to the pay vote. He will at the 

same time enter the amount of the credit as pay due in the active 
service ledger account and give a reference therein to the corre- 
sponding credit to the pay vote. 

459. He will be responsible for the paj'ment and bringing to 
; account, against the pay vote direct, of remittances of undrawn pay 
. on A.F. 0 1727, of allotments and compulsory stoppages, and 
. against Vote 7 of separation allowances of soldieis whose accounts 

he compiles. 

460. He will take immediate steps on the receipt of casualty 
1 reports to cease the issue of allotments of pay and separation 
c allowance to families of all soldiers affected. 

Pending official information, the casualty lists published in the 
I dailj' press under the heading " Casualties notified by the War 
I Office " may be taken as sufficient authority. 

461. He will render a last . pay certificate or statement of 
, accounts, when required, but if he has reason to think that the 

account is incomplete owing to his having received no acquittance 
rolls from the unit for a considerable time, or for any other 
reason, he will call attention to the case when forwarding the 
statement of accounts. 

462. If the ledger account of any man shows a debtor balance 
at any time owing to excessive cash issues, he will immediately 
bring it to the notice of the O.C. of the man's unit. 

463. He will open such peace or casualty pay lists as may be 
necessary for men returning from abroad independently of their 
units, or for the final adjustment of accounts of deceased men or 
deserters or men discharged insane, and an ordinary peace pay list 
for each unit from date of disembarkation. The non-effective 
accounts of such men will not be delayed pending receipt of 
information as to the sale of their effects, but a supplementary 
report will be made on A.F. O 1815 when the produce of such 
sale has been received. 

464. He will see that the name of every man in the active 
service ledger is eventually carried for the final adjustment of 
his war account to a casualty pay Hst or to the ordinary peace pay 
list of the unit or details to which he may be posted. 

465. Any balance on the soldier's active service ledger account 
when closed will be posted to the casualty or peace pay list, money 
due to the man being charged as pay, and money due from him 
being entered in the forfeited pay column, and the man's accounts 
will be dealt with under peace regulations from the date of being 
posted to a unit at home. Before posting the balance from the 



Cash 

recovered 
from 

soldiers iu 
hospital. 



Allotments, 
&c., charged 
direct to 
vote. 



Cessation 
of issue of 
allotments, 
&c. 



Rendering 
of state- 
ments of 
accounts. 



Debtor 
balances to 
be reported. 

Casualty, 
&c., pay 
lists. 



All war 
accounts to 
be iinally 
adjusted in 
peace pay 
lists. 

Transfer of 
balances to 
peace pay 
lists. 



Active Service. 



84 



ledger account into the casualty or peace pay list, the cash pay- 
ments should, if possible, be verified from the soldier's pay boot. 

466. He will adjust terminal claims on receipt of, and in the 
manner laid down in the special instructions to be issued at the 
conclusion of hostilities, except as regards deceased men and men 
discharged insane, whose claims should be adjusted when their 
non-eflfective accounts are made up. 

467. Soldiers' pay books (A.B. 64) will, on receipt by the pay- 
master compiling the accounts, be kept for 3 years with the 
accounts and may then be destroyed. 



85 



Appendix !• 



APPENDIX I. 



FINANCIAIi ADJUSTMENTS ON ACCOUNT OF SERVICES 
PERFORMED BY THE ARMY FOR THE NAVY, AND 
VICE VERSA. 

(a) Expenses of Officers and Men. 

1. All pay, allowances, and other expenses on account of 
seamen and marines will be defrayed from naval funds under the 
orders and regulations of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, 
except as regards issues in kind of clothing and field necessaries, 
provisions, forage, fuel, and light, made to seamen and marines 
landed to take part in active operations in the field in conjunction 
with His Majesty's land forces. While active operations continue, 
the cost of any issues of clothing and consumable supplies made 
from military magazines will be borne by army votes, and no claim 
will be made upon naval funds for the value of such issues or for 
the use of military transport. 

2. When an army officer or soldier is employed on what is 
distinctly naval service, or an officer or man of the navy or marines 
is employed on what is distinctly army service, the department 
which obtains the benefit will bear the expense of any local 
allowances, or extra or working pay, to which the said officers or 
men may be entitled by the regulations of their own department. 

3. All payments which may be due to officers or men under the 
preceding paragraph will be made by the paymaster or accountant of 
the department to which the claimants may belong, and will be 
subsequently adjusted between the army paymaster and the 
naval accountant or paymaster of Eoyal Marines. 

4. Claims for rations issued or cash advanced to soldiers 
temporarily attached to the Eoyal Marines, or to marines tempor- 
arily attached to the army, will be addressed, as the case may be, 
either to the officer commanding the corps to which the soldiers 
belong, or to the paymaster of the division or dep6t of the Eoyal 
Marines, who will refund the amount claimed. 

5. No claims will be made by either department for repay- 
ment of the expenses incurred on behalf of the other department 
in escorting deserters, or for members of, or witnesses attending, 

C0\ll*ts~1113irtl3<l 

6. No claims will be made for the subsistence of seamen and 
marines in military hospitals and prisons, or detention barracks, i a.O. 267 
or of soldiers in naval hospitals or prisons. . | 1912 

7. Claims for travelling expenses and allowances amounting to 
less than a total of £1 will not be subject to adjustment but will 
be borne by the department making the payment. 



Appendix I. 



86 



(6) Engineer Services. 

8. Claims against the Admiralty on account of Rfjyal Engineer 
services, whether for labour or stores, will be adjusted between the 
War Office and the Admiralt)^ Claims for electric light, gas and 
water, will be dealt with as prescribed in paragraph 13. 

9. Admiralty claims against the War Department in respect of 
services executed by the Admiralty Works Department on behalf 
of the Army, both at home and abroad, whether on account of daj^ 
labour, stores, or cojitracts, will be adjusted between the two 
departments at the War Office. Claims on account of labour or 
stores supplied for army services at home by other Admiralty 
departments will be adjusted similarly. At stations al>road such 
claims from Admiralty departments other than the Works Depart- 
ment will be adjusted between the army paymaster and the naval 
accountant. 



(c) Army Ordnance Services. 

10. The working pay or wages of soldiers or civilian subordi- 
nates of the army employed in repairs, &c., to naval equipments 
will be charged in the accounts against army votes. This expendi- 
ture, together with the value of the materials used in the work, 
will be recovered from the Admiralty by the War Office on the 
basis of returns rendered by the Army Ordnance Depai'tment. 
Similar expenditm-e incurred by the Naval Ordnance Department 
for the army will be recovered by the Admiralty from the War 
Office. 

11. Claims on account of stores issued by the army to the navy, 
or vice versd, will be adjusted as follows :— 

(a) Transfers of naval ordnance stores and all army stores, both 
at home and foreign stations, will be adjusted between the 
War Office and the Admiralty. 

(b) Transfers of other naval stores will, if serviceable, be 
adjusted between the War Office and the Adrau-alty at home 
and locally abroad. 

(c) Transfers of other naval stores, if unsei-viceable, will be 
adjusted locally. 

vo 167 (^) Claims on accouutof stores or laboursupplied by the Admiraltj' 
1911 — I Works Department will be adjusted as in pai'agraph 9. 

(d) Supplies and Uedical Stores. 

A.0. 71 I 12. Claims for issues from army stocks for naval services, or 
^^^^ I to the Eoyal Marines (including officers at the Staff College), wiU 
I be adjusted in accordance with the Regulations for supply, trans- 
port, and barrack services, or Regulations for Army Medical 
Services. 

13. Claims for supplies furnished by the navy to the army will 
be adjusted as follows : — 



87 



Appendix I- 



(a) At home stations : between the War Office and the 
Admiralty. 

{b) At stations abroad : locally by the army paymaster with 
the naval accountant. 

14. Claims for supplies furnished by the divisions or dep6t of the 
Eoyal Marines will be adjusted locally between the army paymaster 
and the paymaster of marines. 

(e) Transport. 

15. At stations abroad where army passages and sea freight of 
army stores are engaged by a naval officer, claims payable locally 
for such services will be examined and paid by the naval ac- 
countant, who will recover the amount from the army paymaster, 
the claim being supported by the original vouchers. If any error 
is detected by the paymaster, he will return the claim to the naval 
officer for adjustment. 

16. At stations at home or abroad, when stores, supplies, or 
labour on account of army sea transport services are furnished by a 
naval officer, the claim will be adjusted between the War Office and 
the Admiralty. 

17. Claims for transport of stores for naval service, if not made 
separately, will, whenever practicable, be separated from army 
claims, a certified extract from the original vouchers being prepared 
for transmission to the department least concerned. Such naval 
claims will be examined in the same manner as army claims, a 
certificate being given that they relate to naval service and that 
the charges are correct. The indents and vouchers, on the usual 
army forms, will be marked in red ink "Naval Service.' At 
home, such claims wiU be forwarded to the Accountant-General 
of the Navy, Admiralty, Whitehall, London, for payment. Abroad 
the amounts will be recovered locally from the naval accountant 
without delay, and will be recorded by the army paymaster m a 
separate ledger account, entitled " Naval Ordnance Store Officer. 
When a charge cannot be apportioned between the two depart- 
ments, it should be made in the army account, all available 
statistics as to its distribution being forwarded with the account 
Claims for transport amounting to less than a total ot 1^. will 
not be subject to adjustment, but will be borne by the department 
making the payment. 

(/) General Instructions. 

18. Where claims are made for the additional pay, working pay, 
or wages of officers, soldiers, or others employed on work tor 
another department, the pay lists or other vouchers wiU be certibed, 
as regards periods and services, by the officers under whose directions 
the work has been done, and will be forwarded in support of the 
charges in the public accounts. , ^„„,r 

19 In cases where local adjustment between army and navy 
paymasters at stations abroad is prescribed by these regulations, 



88 



and there is no naval officer in charge of cash at the station, nor 
ship present with a naval accountant on board, the adjustment 
between army and navy funds will be made by the army pay- 
master through the Treasury chest accounts. Where such adjust- 
ments give rise to charges in army accounts, the charges will be 
supported by a certificate, signed by the paymaster, that the 
amounts have been transferred to the credit of navy funds. Should 
an instance occur where local adjustment cannot be effected, a 
report should be made to the War Office. 

20. No claim will be made by either department for the use of 
lighters, boats, cranes or shears, except as provided by special 
arrangement, but claims for any labour or stores expended in 
connection with such appliances will be adjusted as directed in 
paragraph 10. 



89 



Appendix II _ 



APPENDIX II. 



PAYMENT OF TJNITS PBOCEEDING TO OR FROM INDIA 
AS ORDINARY RELIEFS AT INDIAN EXPENSE. 

"Voyage to India. 

1. When a unit is under orders to proceed to India whether 
from a station at home or abroad, the officer commanding will 
transmit to the regimental paymaster, at least twelve days before 
the date fixed for embarkation, an estimate showing the number of 
men to whom an advance of pay is to be made, the period of such 
advance, and the net amount required. The regimental paymaster 
will examine the estimate and take the necessary steps for the 
issue of the amount he considers to be required to the officer 
commanding, and will at once notify to the India Office the amount 
and date of the advance. He will charge the amount in his 
accounts under the head of "Secretary of State for India- 
Miscellaneous Services," the charge being supported by a copy of 
the notification to the India Office. The advance will be credited 
to the Indian Government in the general state of accounts for the 
period of the voyage to India. 

2. Officers commanding companies, &c., should be in possession 
of the necessary pay and mess books, A.F. N 1504 (in duplicate), 
for use on the voyage. 

3. The officer commanding will, as soon as possible after 
embarkation, transmit to the regimental paymaster a nominal roll 
(A.F. O 1668) of the soldiers who actually embark. The regi- 
mental paymaster, after entering the soldiers' rates of pay, dates of 
enlistment, and the dates to which they have been paid, will certify 
the roll and forward it to the officer commanding, who will render 
it to the Divisional Disbursing Officer in India {see para. 4). 

4. As soon as possible after arrival at their destination m India, 
company, &c., commanders will render the following documents to 
the divisional disbursing officer concerned, with a view to the 
preparation of the voyage pay list by that officer :— 

i. One pay and mess book (A.F. N 1504) for each company for 

the period commencing from the date of embarkation to 
the date preceding that of first rationing of the troops by 
the Supply and Transport Corps in India. 

ii. The nominal roll of the soldiers who actually embarked, as 

furnished to the regimental paymaster {see para. 3), 
showing the soldiers' rates of pay and allowances, dates of 



Appendix II. 



90 



enlistment, and dates to which they have been paid. 
Information should also be given whether the men are in 
receipt of quarterly clothing allowance or not. 

iii. An extract from regimental or battery orders, showing the 

promotions, reversions, casualties, &c., that have occurred 
during the voyage ; the dates to which the band, con- 
tingent, and other allowances were last charged in the 
Imperial accounts being also shown. 

iv. A statement (A.F. P 1940) of the postage and contingent 

charges incun-ed for the period of the voyage. 

V. A nominal roll of the officers who disembark in India, 
showing the dates of their disembarkation and the 
squadrons or companies they command. 

vi. The last pay certificates of officers (A.F. O 1660). 

vii. A nominal roll of the women and children on the married 

establishment by squadrons or companies, showing the 
dates of marriage of the women and birth of children, 
together with information as to whether che women are of 
European parentage or not. 

6. The pay of units proceeding to India in the ordinary 
course of Indian relief will be charged against the Government of 
India from the date of embarkation 

The accounts of the unit up to the date preceding embarkation 
must be adjusted with "the regimental paymaster direct. The 
balance on the last account rendered to the regimental paymaster, 
and any sums due to or from the corps for any period prior to the 
date of embarkation, must be settled direct with the regimental 
paymaster, and will not appear in the Indian accounts imtil due 
authority has been obtained from the regimental paymaster. 
When such authority is granted, the amount to be remitted to or 
charged against the War Ottice, in respect of sums due to or from 
the regimental paymaster, will be converted at the official rate of 
exchange (Is. Ad. to the rupee — or Rs. 15 = £1.) 

6. The surplus sterling balances of pay and allowances with 
corps, batteries, and drafts arriving in India will be disposed of as 
follows : — 

Officers commanding will either retain, for direct expenditure, 
the gold sterling coins forming part of the balances, or, if 
necessary, present them at the Currency Office for 
exchange. As regards other sterling moneys, such as 
Bank of England notes and silver and copper coins, officers 
commanding will deal dii-ect with money changers, who 
will be introduced to them by the Treasm-y. The Treasury 
will limit its share in the transaction to fui-nishing a 
certificate showing the rates of exchange prevaiUng as 
regards the notes and coins in question, on the day the 
transactions take place. The equivalent of the .sterling 



91 



Appendix II. 



brought out will be paid into the Civil Treasury by means 
of a receivable order obtained from the Divisional 
Disbursing Officer, the gold coin being exchanged at Is. Ad. 
the rupee to arrive at the equivalent Indian currency, and 
the remainder, if any, i.e., Bank of England notes, silver 
or copper, at the market rate of exchange, supported by 
the certificate received from the Treasury. The amounts 
disallowed on audit of the voyage accounts are recoverable 
at the rate of Is. 4d. the rupee. 

Voyagre from India. 

7. Pay and mess books for the period of the voyage from India 
will be prepared in duplicate by company, &c., commanders on 
A.F. N 1504. The necessary supply of these forms, together 
with copies of the pay warrant, the financial instructions, and 
the allowance regulations, will be found on board the vessel in a 
packet addressed to the officer commanding the troops. One pay 
and mess book for each company will be rendered to the 
reo-imental paymaster at the record office station of the unit. 
The pay and mess books will be prepared for the voyage period 
commencing from the date of embarkation in India and ending on 
the day preceding arrival in port of the vessel in which the voyage 
to the United Kingdom is made, or, in the case of a unit pro- 
ceeding to a colony or Egypt, on the day preceding disembarkation. 

In the case of details of the unit disembarking at Malta or othei' 
station e7i route, separate pay and mess books should be maintained 
and submitted to the regimental paymaster of the station 
concerned. 

8. A separate pay list for the voyage will, as far as possible, be 
prepared in India by the divisional disbursing oflicer concerned, 
for each company and for details disembarking at a station en route, 
the columns marked ''period" and "amount" being left blank. 
The pay lists will be despatched as soon as possible after the unit 
embarks, so as to reach the paymasters at the destinations at the 
same time as the unit or details. 

9. On receipt of the pay and mess books and certified copies ot 
ordera for the period of the voyage, the paymaster will complete 
the pay lists, and the balance due to the unit or details will be 
paid by him, or on his behalf, by the cashier of the command, and 
charged to " Secretary of State for India— Miscellaneous Services. 

10. The pay of units leaving India in the oidinary course of 
Indian relief becomes an Imperial charge from the day of arrival 
of the ship in port at home, or of disembarkation at a station 

abroad. j 

11. Voyage pay lists are to contain only those charges and credits 
which relate strictly to the voyage, and care should be taken only 
to charge such allowances as are admissible for a voyage period 
and to ensure that no charges or credits in respect of any Indian 
accounts are included in voyage pay lists. 



Appendix II. 



92 



12. If on closing in India the accounts of the corps there is a 
balance in favour of the unit or details disembarking m route, the 
amount will be advised to the regimental paymaster concerned for 
payment. Should the balance be against the unit the necessary 
particulars will be furnished to the ofl&cer commanding, with a 
request that the regimental paymaster may remit the amount to 
India on Army Form 0 1706. The payments and recoveries will 
be converted at the official rate of exchange 4c?. to the rupee — 
or Ks. 15=£1). 

General. 

13. All charges on account of allowances in respect of broken 
periods will be computed in accordance with the rules laid down in 
Section IV of these regulations. 



INDEX. 



A. 



Paras. 

Abstracts of Examination — 

decisions and disallowances . . . . , . . . , . 287-290 
Accounts — 

active serrice . . . . . . . . . . , . 408-467 

books and records, paymasters' . . . . , . 16-23, 68, 69 

disallowances . . . • . . . . . . , . . . 287-290 

fractions of a penny . . . . . . , . . . . . 276, 386 

inspection.. .. ., .. .. .. ,. 9,10 

preparation . . . . . , . . , . . . . . 274r-284 

retention of old books, &c. . . . • . . . . 17, 59, 69 

sub-accountants . . . . . . . . . . . . , , 331 

suspense . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . 282-284 

transmission by post . . . . . . . . . . , . 292 

vouchers . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . 277-281 

Active Service — 

duties of paymasters in theatre of operations . . . . 417-440 

„ „ „ at home stations .. .. ..441-467 

organization of the A.P.D. abroad in war time . . . . 414-416 

Advice Lists (Money Orders) — 

check by paymaster . . . . . . . . . . . . 248 

corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242 

despatch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 236 

errors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ■ 264 

preparation . . . . . . . . • . . . . ■ 236-248 

Advices (Money Order) — 

despatch . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . 254 

forms required . . . . . . . . • « • • • • 249 

lost 259 

preparation . . . . . . ..... • . • • 254-259 

recoTory . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • 263 

Agents — 

accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • 332-3d5 

estimates . . . . . . . . • • • . • . • . 332 

notifying officers of receipt of money . . . • • . • • 33$ 

B. 

Balances — 

soldiers' credit on 31st March . . .. .. •• •• 108 

transfer of drafts abroad . . • . . . • • • • 94-96 

units „ 104-108,110 

,, ' soldier to reserve or on discharge . . . . 91-93 



Index. 94 



Parae. 

Banking: — 

interest . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 52 

opening of accounts . . . . . . . • . . 50, 304, 305 

pass-book heading .. .. .. .. .. .. 51 

,, retention of old books, &c. . . .. .. .• 55 

public accounts to be kept distinct . . . . . . . . 53, 304 

" undertaking " by bank manager . . . . . . . . 50 

Bills and Claims. 

certificates required . . . . . . . . . . . . 341, 342 

confidential list . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341 

mode of payment or receipt . . . . . . . . . . 336-343 

Books — 

inspection . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 10, 296 

to be posted up daily . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 



c. 

Cashier — 

accounts, preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . 274, 275 

bank account . . . . . . . • . . • • • • 50 

care of bullion and specie . . . . . . . . • • 57 

cheques and drafts . . . . . . . . • • 48, 54, 58, 60 

despatch of letters containing drafts, &c. . . . . . . 64 

duties 4, 41-66 

imprests . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . 43, 44 

notification to paymasters . . . . . . . . . • 61 

ofiice books .. .. .. .. •• •• 59,60 

passbook.. .. .. .. .• •• •• 51,55 

private use of public money forbidden . . . . . . 53 

receipts 45, 52, 60 

rules as to payment . . . . . . . . . . 46-49, 62 

supply of funds . . .. .. .. .. •• ..41,42 

transfer of duties . . . . . . . • • • • • 65 

Chelsea Hospital, admission . . . . . . . • • • 138 

Cheques and Drafts — 

distinctive forms for public accounts . . • • • • 54 

issue, general rules . . . , . . . • • • • • 46-48 

lost . . . . ... . . . . . . • . • • 58 

open drafts . . . . . . . . . • • • • • ^ 

stamping unnecessary . . . . . . . . • • • • 

Claims — 

against contractors, &c. . . . . . . • • • • • 

,, units for damages and losses . . .. •• 35, B, c, D 

broken periods . . . . . . . . . • • • • • 

unauthorized . . . . . . . . . . • • • • 6, 7 

Commanding OfBcer (Company, &c.) — 

cash payments to soldiers . . . . . . • • • • 307-30G 

company bills . . . . . . . . . • • • • • 

supply of funds . . . . . . . . • • • • • • ^^^> 

transfer of command . . . . . . ■ ■ • • • ■ • 



95 



Index. 



Paras. 

Contractors — 

bills, alterations in . . . . , . , . . , . , 339 

„ examination and payment . . . , . . . . 338-343 

claims against . . . . . . . . , . , . . . 28 

deposits . . , . . . . . . , , . , , . . 29 

power of attorney, &c., payment under . . . . , . 343 

Contracts — ■ 

particulars to be noted by paymaster . . . . , . . . 20, 340 
Correspondence — 

general rules .. .. .. .. ,, ,. .. 291-294 

D. 

Damages — 

and losses of stores, &c., chargeable to the troops . . 35b-35d 

Deserters — 

fee for descriptive return . . . . . , , . . , 348 

non-effective account, &c. . . , . . . ' , . . . 393-395 

rejoining, balances due from men . . . . . . . . 99 

Disallowances . . . . . . . . 287-290 

,, ,, appeals against ,. .. .. ., 6a, 6b 

Discharge Depdt — 

transfer of men to Army Reserve , . . . . . , . 92 

Documents — 

Mode of transmission . . . . . . . . . . . . 292 

Duties — 

of the A.P.D 1 



E. 

Effects. 

Disposal of , &c ... .. .. ..401-407 

Exchange, gains and losses . . . . . . . . . . 4f) 



F. 



Felony, non-effective accounts of convicted men . . 
Financial Advice . . 

Fines, civil court, recovery from soldiers .. .. 



H. 

Hospital, stoppages, recovery of sums due 

I. 

Identity certiflcates — 

custody . . 
despatch . . 
first issue of 
forms 

lost . . 
„ in post 



. . 393, 394, 407 
2 
78 



317 



213 
214 

132, 133, 190 
212 
. , 223-2^5 
227 



Index. 



96 



Parae. 

Identity Certlflcfttes — oontinued — 

old certificates, disposal and retention of records . . 133, 231, 232 

pensioner residing abroad .. .. .. ..215,216 

pledged and other improper uses . . . . . . 221, 223-226 

renewal . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • 228 

Imprests, sub-accountants' . . . . . . • . • ■ 44, 297 

Imprisonment — 

non-effective accounts . . . . . . . . . . 392-398, 407 

pension and reserve pay to be suspended . . . . . . 150, 196 

private property of convicted soldiers. . • • . • • . 407 

India, troops proceeding to or from : — 

adjustment of accounts. . .. .. .. 81,94,96,109,110 

claims against units after embarkation . . . . 110, 115 

payment of \mits at Indian expense . . . • ■ • Appendix II 

remittances from and to India. . . . . . . • _ • • 374-377 

travelling expenses of officers and men on Indian 

Establishment . . . . . . . . ■ • • • 35a. 

units : Indo-Colonial reliefs . . . . . . . . ■ • 111-113 

„ ordinary reliefs at Indian expense . . . . . . 109, 110 

J. 

Justices' Clerks' Pees 347, 348 

K. 

Kllnialnham Hospital, admission . . . . . . . • 138 

L. 

Leave, records to be kept .. .. •• 22 

Ledger 17, 69 

Letters, opening of . . . . . . . . . . . . ■ • 8 

Life Certiflcates — 

blank forms for next quarter . . . . . . • • • • 222 

completion, before money order is issued . . . . • • 222 

examination , . . . . . . . . . • • 219, 219a, 220 

first issue.. .. .. .. •• •• 132,133,190 

forms . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • 217 

loftt 223-225 

„ in post . . . . . . . . . . • • • • 227 

old certificates, disposal of . . . . . . . • • • 231 

pensioner and reservist residing abroad . . . • • • 133, 215 

pledged and other improper uses . . . . . • 223, 225, 226 

Lunatics — 

uon-effeotive accounts . . . . . . • • • • • • 393, 402 

pensions 156, 159-169 

reservist, balance of pay on discharge . . . . • • 199 

M. 

Marines — 

adjustment on aooount of attached soldiers, &c. . . Appendix 1 

debts of men relegated to or from . . . . . . • • 1*^ 

stoppages due to paymasters of . . . . . • • • 271 



117 



Index. 



Mobilization, duties of paymaster 
Money Orders — 

advices and advice lists . . 
alterations forbidden 
cancellation and errors . . 
check by paymaster 
custody . . 
despatch . . 
forms 
lost 

outstanding, reissue, and issue of second order 
preparation . . . . . . 

stoppage of payment . . , . . . 
transfer of payment 



236-248 



214, 252 



Paras. 
, . 408, 440 

254^-2o9 
258 
258, 260 
248 
250,251 
266, 267 
249 
261 
260-262 
252-258 
26a 
260 



N. 

Navy — 

adjustments between War Office and Admiralty 
debts of men relegated to or from 
Non-Effective Accounts — 

abroad, men sentenced or sent home for discharge 
clothing and necessaries, &e., issued on payment 
death, desertion, discharge with ignominy, &c. 
debtor balance . . 
lunatics . . 
preparation 

relegation to reserve, on 
special reservist . . 
■Von-Effectlve Estates — 

collection of eflects and credits 
distribution of effects . . 
schedule of effects — report to War OfKce 
Scotland, Channel Isles, Isle of Man and Malta 
soldiers sentenced to imprisonment, &c. 



Appendix I 
100 

394 
398 

., 393-400 
. . 393, 894 
. . 393, 402 
. . 392-402 
396 
399 

392 

. 403-406 
. . 401, 402 
406 
407 



0. 

unices — 

boobs, records, &c. 

hours of attendance and procedure 

inspection .. .. •• 



, 9, 16-23, 68, 69 
, ■ .,8-10, 13 
.. 10,296 



P. 



Hay- 
cash issues to soldiers 

(b 10853) 



306-311 

K 



Index. 



Parag. 

Pay Lists, Coiiipauy, &;c. — 

balauees of men on Slst March .. .. .. .. 103 

balancing and closing . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 

change of st ation of unit . . . . . . . . . • 104-108 

compilation .. .. ,. .. .. ..72A-113 

detached soldiera and units .. .. ., 98, 98a, 108 

drafts proceeding abroad . . . . . . . . . . 94-96 

furlough men . , . . . . . . . . . . . . 85 

limit of cash payments . . . . . . . . . • 86 

regimental orders affecting pay, &c. . . . . . . . . 75 

stoppages . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 77, 78 

transfers, discharges, &c. .. .. .. .. 79, 87-98A, 105 

Paymaster — 

aocoiints 274-284 

accounting services carried out by regimental paymasters . . 67 
commands abroad . . . . . . . . . . . • 36 

command and regimental services .. .. .. 15,67,67a 

disallowances, liability for . . . . . . . . . . 5 

examination of bills and claims .. .. .. 24-26, 35 e 

imprest accounts. . .. .. .. .. .. 27a 

pecuniary difficulties . . . . . . . . . • . . 12 

Treasury chest duties . . . . . . . . . . • . 37-40 

Paymasters' Ailvances — 

adjustments generally .. .. .. .. .. ..378-387 

,, through local auditor .. .. .. ..388-391 

Pensions — 

abroad — mode of payment . . . . . . . . 123-126, 133 

advances on emigration. . . . . . . . . . • ■ 139-141 

ar.-ears 146-149 

broken periods . . . . . . . . • • • • • • 128 

casualties . . . . . . . . . . • . • • 185, 235 

children in orphpnage, &c. .. .. .. •• ..177,178 

colonies 123, 125, 126, 133, 136 

commutation . . . . . . . . . . • • • • 142 

death 180-184 

families— allotments to . . . . . . • • • • 143-145 

„ mode of payment to .. .. ,.1/2-179 

first payment and issue generally . . . . . • • • 121-133 

General Post Office employees. . .. .. .. •• 13/ 

imprisonment, suspension of pension on . . . • • • 150 

lunatics 156, 159-169 

neglect to draw 146-148, 185 

parochial claims . . .. .. .. .. 151-167,1/8,183 

records . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • 232 

returns of absentees and casualties . . . . • . • • 185 

stoppages . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • 243 

,, debts.. 270-272 

„ for families .. .. .. .. .. ..170, 17i 

R. 

Kates 344,346 

Rcveipts, and proof of pajtnent . . . . . . . . . . 368-863 



99 



Index. 



Paras. 

Regriiiiental Claims 117 

,, Funds, paymaster not to take charge . . . . 11 
Remittances — 

from abroad, except India .. .. .. . . ,.364-373 

from and to India 374-377 

limit of amount .. .. .. .. .. .. 365 

mode of payment . . . . . . . . . . . . 372 

to other Colonies. . .. .. .. .. 371 

Rents — 

arrears, procedure . . . . . . . • . « . . 31 

collection by land agent. . .. .. .. .. 351 

,, paymaster .. .. .. .. 350,352-354 

mode of payment .. .. .. «. •» ..344-316 

Reserve — 

absentee, reward for conviction . . . . . • . . 198 

borrowing money ou security of certificates . . . . . . 221 

casualties . . . . . . • ■ . . • • • • • • 235 

death; cessation of pay, certificates, &c. .. .. ..200-203 

discharge . . . . . • • . • • • • • • • • 229, 230 

first issue 189-193A 

forfeiture of pay. . .. .. •• •• •• 19^ 

General Post Office employees. . .. .. .. 195 

imprisonment; suspension of pay, &c. .. .. ..196-198 

medical examination fee . . . . . . • • • • 210 

men residing in Colonies, &c. .. .. .. 1^7, 195a 

mode of issue of pay • . . . • . • • • • 186-193A 

pay admissible on mobilization . . . . • • • • 191a 

iecords 232-235 

rejoining colours . . . . • • • • • • - * qqp 

relegation to, from corps or prison .. .. .. 205-209, 39b 

stoppages for debts, &c. 270-273 

Returns — 

paymaster's departmental reports, &c. . . • . . • • 

receipts and expenditure . . . . • • • • • • 



s. 

^'^^"sterei, supphes, &c 34, 35, 355-357 

Special Reserve — „„„ 

funds ggg 

non-effective accounts . . . • • • • • • • • * 

non-training bounties .. .. •• •• •• " ng 320 

•: , !; '331 

sub-acoountants . . 
Stoppages-- 35B,c,D 

barrack damages . . .. •• •• •• ojg 

clothing and equipment, lost, &c " 

general procedure . . • • • • • • " • ' * ' 

Sub-accountants — . ,qo 

accounts . . . . • • • • • • 



Index. 100 



Paras. 

•ub-accoiintants — continued— 

bank accounts ., .. .. .. .. ., . . SO*, 305 

cash balance . . , . . . . . . . . . . . 299 

„ payments to soldiers . . . . . . . . , . 307-309 

indents for funds . . . . . . . . . . . . 300-302 

record of cash receipts and expenditure . . . . . . 296, 306 

transfer of command .. .. .. .. 315 

Subordinates — 

check book, examination of ..' .. .. .. .. 27 

mode of payment . , . . . , . . . . . . 321-330 

Suspense Account — 

charges and credits . . . . . . . . . , . . 282, 283 

Touchers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284 



T. 

Taxes . . 

Territorial Force, pay, &c. 

Tithes 

Treasury Chest 



u. 



Unauthorized Claims . . . . . . . . , . . . 6, 7 

V. 

Vouchers — 

alterations and erasures. . . . . . . . . . . . 277 

numbering, &c iSO, 281 

pay list .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 316 

paymasters' accounts . . . . . . ■ . . . . . 274-284 

scheduling 278-281 



119, 303, 320 
. . 344, 345 
. . 37-40 



[Crown Copyright Reserved. 



Allowances 



REGULATIONS 



rOE THE 



ALLOWANCES OF THE ARMY. 



1914. 




LONDON: 

PRINTED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OP HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE 
By HARRISON and SONS, 45-47, Sr. Martin's Lane, W.C, 
Printkrs in Ordinary to His Majesty. 



To be purchased, either directly or throuRh any Bookseller, from 
WYMAN AND SONS, Ltd., 29, Brkams Buildings, Fetter Lane li.O., ann 
.54, St. Mary Street, Cardiff; or 
H.M. STATIONERY OFFICE (Scottish Branch), 23, Forth Street, Edinburoh ; or 
E. PON.SONBY, Ltd., 116, Grafton Streets Dublin; 
or from the Agencies in the British Colonies and Dependencies, 
the United States of America, the Continent of Europe and Abroad of 
T. FISHER UNWIN, London, W.C. 

1914. 

Price Sixpence. 



(b 10575) Wt. 24468—211 36m 10/14 H & S 



Ill 



The changes, additions, omissions and alterations which 
have been made since the AUowance Regulations were last 
re-numbered have necessitated a fresh re-numbering, and 
the following table shows the numbers of the paragraphs in 
the 1910 Edition (as amended by Army Orders) and of the 
corresponding paragraphs in the present Edition. 



Old 


New 


Old 


New 


Old 


JN ew 


Numbers. 


Nuiiibers . 


Numbers. 


Numbers. 




1^ umoei s. 


r reaiiible 


1 10 and 11 
J 


oo 


40 


85 




90 


(part of) 


A 1 


A a 
4b 


86 


91 


1 


1 




4/ 


87 


92 


o 
I 


/ 




A Q 
40 


88 


93 


o 


Q 
O 


A A 


A O 

49 


95 


94 


4 


.1 


40 


OO 


96 


95 


0 


0 


A O 

4b 


ol 


96a 


96 


b 


b 


4bA 


02 


97 


97 


DA 


rj 
1 


4/ 


OO 


no 
9o 


98 


7 


lb 


/f o 

4o 


54 


99 


99 


/A 


1^ 


A (\ 

49 


00 


100 


100 


o 
O 


8 


OU 


Ob 


101 


101 


9 


y 


04 


07 


1 MO 

1U2 


102 


lU 


1 o 
12 


04A 


Do 


lUo 


103 


11 


13 


00 


09 


104 


104 


11a 


14 


55a 


60 


106 


105 


11b 


15 


56 


bl 


108 


106 


12 


18 


56a 


62 


109 


107 


14 


19 


56b 


63 


110 


108 


15 


20 


56c 


64 


111 


109 


16 


21 


57 


65 


112 


11. 1 11, 1 

110, 112, 114 


17 


22 


58 


66 




111 11K llfl 

111, lJO-119 
122 (cj and 


18 


23 


59 


67 


llo -! 


19 


24 


60 


68 


I 


122 (d) 


l\i 


25 


bl 


69 


114 


113 


21 


26 


62 


70 


115 


111, 120 


22 


27 


63 


71 


116 


121 


23 


28 


64 


72 


117 


122 (a) and 


23a 


29 


65 


73 




(b) 
123 




30 (new) 


66 


74 


118 


24 


31 


67 


75 


118a 


124 


25 


32 


67a 


76 


118b 


122(e) 


26 


33 


68 


77 


119 


125 


27 


35 


69 


78 


119a 


126 


27a 


3fi 


70 


79 


120 


127 


28 


37 


71 


80 


121 


128 


29 


38 


72 


81 


122 


129 


30 


cancelled 


74 


82 


123 


130 


31 


39 


76 


83 


124 


131 


31 A 


40 


76 


84 


125 \ 


132 


32 


41 


77 


85 


126 / 


83 


42 


78 


86 


127 


133 


?A 


43 


79 


87 


128 


134 


35 


34 


82 


88 


129 


cancelled 


37 


44 


84 


89 


132 


135 



(B 10575) 



iv 



Old 
Numbers. 



133 

134 

135 

136 

137 

138 

139 

141a 

142 

143 

145 

147 

149 

150 

151 

15'2 

153 

154 

155 

156 

157 

158 

159 

16lA 

162 

163 

164 

164a 

165 

166 

167 

168 

169 

170 

170a 

171 

172 

173 

174 

175 

176 

177 

178 

181 

181 

182 

183 

184 

185 

186 

187 

188 

189 

190 



New 
Numbers. 



136 
137 
138 
139 
140 
141 
142 
cancelled 
143 
144 
145 
146 
147 
148 
149 
150 
151 
152 
153 
154 
155 
156 
157 
158 
159 
160 
161 
172-182 
162 
163 
164 
165 
166 
167 
168 
169 
170 
171 
183 
184 
185 
186 
187 
188 
189 
190 
191 
192 
193 
191 
195 
196 
197 
198 



Old 
Numbers. 



191 

192 

193 

194 

195 

196 

197 

198 

199 

200 

201 

202 

203 

204 

205 

206 

207 

208 

209 

210 

211 

212 

214 

214a 

215 

216 

217 

218 

219 

220 

221 

222 

223 

225 

225a 

226 

227 

228 

229 

230 

231 

232 

233 

235 

236 

237 

238 

239 

240 

241 

242 

243 

244 

245 



New 
Numbers. 



199 

200 
201 
202 
203 
204 
205 
200 
207 
208 
209 
210 
211 
212 
213 
214 
215 
216 
217 
218 
219 
220 
221 
222 
223 
224 
225 
226 
227 
228 
229 
230 
231 
232 
233 
246 
234 
236 
236 
237 
238 
239 
240 
241 
242 
243 
244 
245 
247 
248 
249 
250 
261 
262 



Old 
Numbers. 



246 

247 

218 

249 

250 

251 

252 

253 

254 

255 

256 

25Ga 

256b 

256c 

256d 

257 

258 

260 

261 

262 

262a 

263 

264 

266 

266 

267 

268 

269 

270 

271 

272 

272a 

272b 

273 

274 

275 

276 

277 

278 

278a 

278b 

279 

280 

281 

282 

283 

284 

285 

286 

287 

288 

289 

290 



New 
Numbers. 



263 
234 
255 
256 
257 
258 
269 
260 
261 
262 
263 
264 
266 
266 
267 
268 
269 
270 
271 
272 
273 
274 
275 
276 
277 
278 
279 
280 
281 
282 
283 
288 
289 
284 
285 
290 
291 
292 
293 
286 
287 (new) 
294 
295 
296 
297 
298 
299 
300 
301 
302 
303 
304 
305 
306 



V 



Old 
Numbers. 


New 
Numbers. 


Old 
NumbeiB. 


New 
Numbers. 


Old 
Numbers. 


New 
Numbers. 


291 

293 

294 

295 

296 

297 

298 

299 

299A 

300 

300a 

301 

301a 

302 

303 

304 

305 

305a 

306 

307 

308 

309 

310 

310a 

311 

312 

313 

314 

315 

316 

317 

317a 

318 

319 

320 

321 

322 

323 

324 

325 

325A 

326 

327 

328 

329 

330 

331 

33lA 

332 

333 

334 

335 

336 

337 


cancelled 1 
307 1 

308 

309 1 

310 1 

311 

312 1 

313 1 

314 1 

315 

316 1 

317 
318 

319 1 

320 

321 

322 

323 

324 

325 

326 

327 

328 

329 

330 

331 

332 

333 

334 

335 

336 

337 

338 

339 

340 

341 

342 

343 

344 

345 

346 

347 

348 

349 

351 

352 

353 

354 

355 

356 

3,57 

3,58 

369 

360 


338 
339 
340 
341 
342 
343 
344 
345 
346 
347 
347A 
348 
349 
350 
351 
352 
353 
354 
354a 
355 
356 
357 
358 
359 
360 
361 
362 
1 364 
364A 
364b 
364C 
364D 
36 4e 
364F 
36 IG 
364H 
1 3641 
1 365 
1 366 
1 367 
1 368 
1 369 
1 370 
1 .371 
1 375 
.377 
378 
1 379 
I 380 
1 380a 
1 380ji 
1 380c 
1 380D 
1 380b 


361 
362 
363 
364 
365 
366 
367 
368 
369 
370 
371 
372 
373 
374 
375 
376 
350 
696 
695 
377 
378 
379 
380 
381 
382 
383 
384 
385 
386 
387 
388 
389 
390 
391 
392 
393 
cancelled 
394 
395 
396 
397 
398 
399 
400 
401 
402 
403 
404 
405 
cancelled 
406 
407 
408 
409 


381 

381A 

385 

387 

388 

389 

391 

393 

394 

396 

397 

398 

399 

400 • 

401 

401a 

402 

403 

404 

405 1 

406 

407 

408 

410 

411 

412 

413 

414 

415 

416 

41GA 

419 

421 

422 

422a 

423 

424 

425 

426 

426a 

42611 

426c 

427 1 

427a 

427b 

428 

429 

430. 


410 
411 
412 
413 
414 
415 
416 
417 
418 
419 
420 
421 
422 
423 
424 
425 

426 (c) 

4-26 (h) 

427 (new) 
429 (a) 

428, 428 (a.) 
to (d), 429 
(o) and (d) 

426 (d) and 
429 (e) 
cancelled 

covered by 

428 (i) 
cancelled 

428 (i) and 
(ii), 429(c) 
430 
431 
432 
433 
434 
435 
436 
437 
438 
439 
440 
441 
442 
443 
444 
445 
446 

447 

448 
449 
450 
461 



Old 
Numbers. 


New 
Numbers. 


Old 
Numbers. 


J 


^^^^^ 
Numbers. 


New 
Numbers, 


^oo 




AQ7 
4o/ 


o05 


549 


558 


•tot 


'xOO 


ASH AQCL 
400-4y0 


cancelled 


550 


559 


4rOt) 


*t04: 


4:y / 


506 


551 


560 




AFiPl 
rtOO 


4yo 


507 


552 


- 561 




t:00 


AOQ 

4:yy 


608 


553 


562 




At>7 


OUi 


509 


554 


563 


A^j^ A 




ouz 


OIU 


555 


564 


^oy 


rtOJ 


OUo 


Oil 


556 


665 


^VJ 




0U4 


51i 


566 


566 




4:01 


ouo 


513 


566 


667 




462 (^new) 


oub 


514 


567 


568 




4:0O (^D J 


ouy 


515 


568 


669 




TCOO 


ouyA 


516 


569 


570 




ARA 

ttOtc 


OiU 


01/ 


570 


571 


/Lid. 


4:00 


Oil 


olo 


671 


572 






OiZ 


oiy 


572 


573 




Cciiicelled 


Pit 3 

Oio 


520 


572a 


674 




Afift 

4:00 


A 1 A 

014: 


Oil 


573 


575 


AJ.Q 




OlO 




573a 


676 




ATA 
4:/U 


Olb 


523 


674 


677 




A7 1 
4:/ i 


Oi/ 




574a 


678 




A7'> 
4:/ Z 


Oic 


525 


675 


579 




■i/O 


oiy 


0<!b 


576 


680 




A7A 
i/ 4: 


ozu 


oz7 


577 


681 


Af^A 


A7Fi 
4:/ 0 


ozi 


0Z8 


578 


582 


d FiA 1 


A7fi 
4:/0 


oZz 


529 


579 


683. 


4-00 


A^7 
4/ / 


ozo 


530 


580 


684 


loo 


4/l5 


0Z4 


531 


581 


585 


4:0/ 


4/ y 


ozo 


532 


681a 


686 


A FiQ 


/ion 


oZo 


533 


682 


687 


Ae;0 

^toy 


dft1 
4oi 


OZ/ 


534 


585 


688 


Afin 


4oZ 


oZo 


535 


586 . 


689 


4Di 


4o»? 


ozy 


636 


587 


690 


4:0 i 


4o4: 


530 


537 


688 


591 


Al^Q 
4rOO 


AQK 
4:0 0 


1 

Ool 


538 


589 


592 


4:D4: 


4:0 b 


05lA 


539 


590 


593 


4b0 


4o/ 


ooZ 


540 


591 


694 


4:bo 


/I QQ 

4oo 


533 


541 


592 


695 


4:0/ 


/I on 

4oy 


534 


642 


593 


696 


4:0 y 


4yu 


R 'J C 

OdO 


543 


594 


597 




41(1 


0{3d 


544 


596 


598 


4:/i 


4yz 


537 


• 545 


696 


599 


4:/ i 


4yo 


OriO 


546 


597 


600 


4:/ ZA 


4y4 


53!) 


547 


598 


601 




4yo 


540 


548 


599 


602 


474 


4yo 


540a 


549 


605 


603 


4/0 


A Ci~7 

4y/ 


041 


550 


606 


604 


4/0 


4yo 


542 


551 


607 


605 


482 


499 


543 


552 


608 


606 


482a 


500 


544 


553 


609 


607 


483 


501 


545 


554 


609a 


608 


484 


502 


540 


555 


G09b 


6U9 


485 


603 


547 


556 


610 


610 


486 


504 


548 


557 


611 


611 



vu 



Old 


New 


Old 


New 


Old 


New 


Numbers. 


Numbers. 


Numbers. 


Numbers. 


Numhfirs 


6Ha 


612 


652a 


641 




667 
668 


61-2 


613 


662b 


inrluflpfl 


0 1 o 


eriA 


614 




in 643 




boy 


613 


615 


652c 


642 






613a 


616 


652d 


643 


O ( J 


b/1 


613b 


622 




f)44 { npw^ 


D / UU 


CO 

bi z 


613c 


623 


653 


645 


676 


0/ O 


613d 


624 


654 


646 




b/4: 


613e 


617 


655 


647 


678 




613f 


618 


656 


648 




b/o 


613g 


619 


657 


649 




b/ / 


613h 


620 


658 


650 


681 


b/o 


613i 


. 621 


659 


651 


682 


b/y 


61i 


625 


660 


652 


685 


bou 


615 


626 


661 


653 


686 


001 


637 


627 


662 


654 


690 




638 


628 


663 


655 


691 


UOO 


639 


629 


664 


656 


691a 


UOtt 


640 


630 


665 


657 


692 




641 


631 


666 


658 


693 


Oou 


642 


632 


668 


659 


694 


uo/ 


643 


633 


669 


660 


695 


688 


644 


634 


670 


661 


696 


689 


645 


635 


670a 


662 


697 


690 


646 


636 


670b 


663 


698 


691 


647 


637 


67UC 


caucelled 


699 


692 


650 


638 


671 


664 


700 


693 


651 


639 


672 


665 


701 


694 


652 


640 


672a 


666 







▼iii 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



56 
69 



Page 

Section 1.— Classitigation of Ranks and General In- 

stbtjctions respecting allowances ... 1 

2. — Provisions 1* 

„ 3. — Messing Allowance 33 

4. Married Establishment and Issue of 

" Separation Allowance to Families ... 34 

5. — Forage 

6. — Paillasse Straw 

7. — Fuel and Light 

8. Payments in respect of Quarters and Hire 

OF Furniture 

9. — Furniture Allowance to General Officers 71 

10. —LoDGiNG Money, Mess Hire Allowance, and 

" Stable Allowance '^2 

11. — Colonial Allowance 8* 

12— Travelling 

1 1 fi 

13. — Passages 

14 —Conveyance of Baggage and Stores 125 

15. _FiELD Allowance 

16. — Allowance for Cleaning Chapels, Offices, 

&c ^"^^ 

17. — Servant Allowance ^'^^ 

18. — Allowance in Aid of Officers' Mess 
" Expenses 

19. Indemnification for Losses 1^ 

20— Postage, Telegrams, Telephonic Messages, 

Army Forms, Books, and Stationery ... Ibl 
21.— Supply and Casting of Horses, &c l^o 



ix 



Page 

Section 22. — Miscellaneous Allowances 175 

I. Provision and Maintenance of Jumps for 

Horses ... ... ... ... ... 175 

II. Table Allowance 176 

III. Contingent Allowance 177 

IV. Library Allowance ... ... ... ... 180 

V. Camp Kit Allowance 182 

VI. Outfit Allowance 182 

VII. Allowance for Miscellaneous Stores ... 182 

VIII. Allowance for Upkeep of Practice Arms, &c. 184 

IX. Allowance for Soldiers' Funerals ... ... 185 

X. Allowance for Regimental Bands 185 

XI. Allowance to Pupils of the Royal Military 

School of Music for attending Concerts 185 
XII. Allowance for Nursing Service at MiUtary 

Hospitals 186 

XIII. Allowance for Purchase of Articles for 

Hospital Wards 187 

XIVj Allowance for apparatus for Teaching 

Elementary Science in Army Schools ... 188 
XV. Payments for Shorthand Writers and 

Eees of Witnesses 188 



z 



GEORGE, R.I. 

Whereas We deem it expedient to amend the Regulations 
governing the Allowances of Our Army : 

OuB Will and Pleasure is that the Regulations issued with Our 
Warrant of the 20th December, 1910, shall be cancelled, and that 
the Regulations attached to this Our Warrant shall be the sole 
and standing authority on the matters therein treated of : Provided 
always, that Our Army Council shall be the sole administrators and 
interpreters of these Regulations, and shall, in any matters not 
affecting the rates or quantities therein laid down, except where 
a temporary variation is specially contemplated bj' the Regulations, 
have power to alter them from time to time as may appear to them 
to be expedient, until Our further Will and Pleasure be made 
known. 

This Our Warrant shall, unless hereinafter otherwise specified, be 
in force from and after the receipt or promulgation thereof, in all 
parts of Our Dominions and elsewhere, except as regards Allowances 
in Our Indian Empire. 

Given at Our Court at St. James's this 28th day of September, 
1914, in the 5th year of Our Reign. 



By His Majesty's Command, 

KITCHENER 



xi 



Definitions. 

In these Regulations, the term " soldier " includes a warrant 
officer, N.C.O., or man. 

The term " unit " (except in the case of accounting units for 
forage and fuel supplies) will be held to signify a regiment of cavalry ; 
a battalion of infantry ; a battery, company or depot of artillery ; 
a squadron, troop or company, a section of the coast battalion and 
the field training depot of Royal Engineers ; a squadron Royal 
Flying Corps ; a company of the A.S.C. or R.A.M.C. ; a company | 
or section of the A.O.C., or section of the A.V.C. 



Abbreviations. 



A.B 




Army Book. 


A.F 





Army Form. 


A.D.C. 





Aide-de-Camp. 


A.O.C. 





Army Ordnance Corps. 


A.O.D. 




Army Ordnance Dej)artment. 


A.s.a 




Army Service Corps. 


A.V.C. ... 




Army Veterinary Corps. 


CO 




Commanding Officer. 


D.D.M.S. ... 




Deputy Director of Medical Services. 


G.O.C 




General Officer Commanding. 


i/c 




In charge of. 


M.G.O. 




Master-General of the Ordnance. 


N.C.O. 




Non-commissioned officer. 


O.C 




Officer commanding. 


Para 




Paragraph. 


Q.A.I.M.N.S. 




Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing 




Service. 


R.A 




Royal Artillery. 


R.A.M.C. ... 




Royal Army Medical Corps. 


R.E 




Royal Engineers. 


R.F.A. 




Royal Field Artillery. 


R.G.A. 




Royal Garrison Artillery 


R.HA. 




Royal Horse Ai-tillery. 



[Amendments of the provisions of the edition of 1910 are denoted 
by a black line in the margin. It is requested that, should any typo- 
graphical eirors be discovered, they may be at once pointed cmt tn writing 
to the Secretary, War Office.] 



REGULATIONS 

POE THE 

ALLOWANCES OF THE ARMY, 1914. 



Section 1 -CLASSIFICATION OF EANES AND 
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS RESPECTING 
ALLOWANCES. 

1. For purposes of the allowances (forage excepted, see paras, oiasaifica- 
125 to 146) detailed in these regulations, and of the allotment of tion. 
quarters (when not specially appropriated) provided for in the 
icing's Regulations, the officers and soldiers of the army and 
other persons holding appointments specified in this para, will be 
divided into the follo^ving classes. 

When an officer is in receipt of a yearly or consolidated rate of 
pay, the classification, unless otherwise stated in these regulations, 
or in the Pay Warrant, is for purposes of quarters, furniture 
allowance, field allowance, and travelling. 

This para, is not an authority for the grant of allowances, butj_____ 
only for their classification when admissible. ^^^^^ 

89 

Class 1. 

General officer commanding-in-chief, 1st class. 

Class 2.* 

Chief umpire (for field allowance only). 
General officer commanding-in-chief, 2nd class. 
Mihtary Secretary to the Secretary of State. 

Class 3.* 

Chief superintendent of ordnance factories (for travelling only). 
Dkector-general, Army Vetermary Service. 
Divisional commander. Territorial Force. 
Major-general. , ^ , t. 

President or vice-president (mihtary). Ordnance Board. 
Principal ordnance officer. 

Surgeon-general. 



• Arranged alphabetically. 

(B 10575) 



Classification of Banks. 



2 



Class 4.* 

Brigade commander (except as provided in Class 5). 

Brigadier-general {see para. 2 (6)). 
Commandant, Staff College. 



Glass 5.* 



Gen. No. 
1336 



A.O. 321 
1911 
14 
Infantry 
597^ 



A.O. 127 
1913 



A.O. 321 
1911 
14 
Infantry 
697 



Assistant adjutant-general. 

Assistant director at War Office, including assistant military 

secretary to the Secretary of State. 
Assistant director-general. Army Medical Service. 
Assistant director of supplies and transport (if a substantive 

colonel). 

Assistant quartermaster-general. 

Brigade commander, Territorial Force (when a regular officer on 
the active list) gazetted as such. 



Chaplain, 1st class. 
Chief engineer. 

Chief inspector. Inspection Staff, under the M.G.O. 

Chief inspector, Inspection Staff, A. CD. 

Chief instructor in gunnery. 

Chief paymaster. 

Colonel, Army Medical Service. 

Colonel, Army Veterinary Service. 

Commandant, Cavalry School. 

Commandant, Central Flying SchooL 

Commandant, Ordnance College. 
Commandant, Royal Military Academy. 
Commandant, Royal Mihtary College. 
Commandant, School of Gunnery. 
Commandant, School of Military Engineering. 
Commandant, School of Musketry. 

Commander of coast defences (unless graded as a major-general 

or brigadier-general), gazetted as such. 
Commander of divisional artiUery, Territorial Force (when a 

regular officer on the active list) gazetted as such. 



Arranged alphabetically. 



3 



Classification of Ranks. 



Commander of garrison artillery. 

Commander of horse and field artillery (unless graded as a 
brigadier-general). 

District barrack officer, when an officer on retired pay (for travel- 
ling only). 

General staff officer, 1st grade. 

Inspector of Army Service Corps. 

Inspector of Army Ordnance Services. | When not above the 
Inspector, Inspector-General of the ' rank of colonel. 

Forces Department J 
Inspector of gymnasia. 

Inspector of remoimts (for field allowance and travelling). 

Mihtary Attache (for travelling only).-}- 

Officer commanding a district at home. 

Officer in charge of records. 

Ordnance board, mihtary members of. 

Ordnance officer, 1st class. 

Staff officer for horse and field artillery. 

Superintendent, Experimental estabHshment, Shoeburyness. 

Superintendent, Ordnance Factories. 

Superintendent, Research Department. 

Umpire (for field allowance only). 



Class 6.* 

Colonel (substantive) employed in a position not otherwise 
classified. 

Officer commanding a regiment of Foot Guards, if serving else- 
where than in London. 



Class 7.* 

Chaplain, 2nd class. 

Chief Inspector of Mechanical Transport. 

Chief Inspector of Ordnance Machinery. 

Chief Inspector of Works. 

Chief Instructor, School of Musketry. 

Commandant, Military Detention Barrack, 1st class. 

Commandant, Duke of York's Royal Military School, or Royal 

Hibernian Military School (for quarters or lodging money, field 

allowance, travelling, and servant allowance). 
Commandant, Queen Victoria School. 

* Arranged alphabetically, 
•f See also para. 400. 

(B 10575) ■ 2 



Classification of Ranks. 



4 



Commandant, School of Music. 

Deputy judge -advocate (for travelling only). 

Governor of military prison, 1st class. 

Lieutenant-colonel, A.V.C. 

Lieutenant-colonel, R.A.M.C. 

Ordnance officer, 2nd class. 

Staff paymaster having rank of lieutenant-coloneL 



Class 8.* 

Brigade - surgeon - lieutenant - colonel and surgeon - Ueutenant 

colonel of the Household Cavalry. 
Officer commanding, Royal Flying Corps (Military Wing). 

Regimental lieutenant-colonel. 

Veterinary lieutenant-colonel. Household Cavalry. 



Class 9.* 

Assistant director general, A.V. Service. 
Assistant inspector of gymnasia. 
Assistant superintendent, Ordnance Factories. 
Assistant paymaster, having rank of major. 
Assistant umpire (for field allowance only). 

Brigade major and secretary, School of Mihtary Engineering, 

having substantive rank of major. 
Chaplain, 3rd class. 

Chief instructor. Royal Mihtary Academy, when graded as general 

staff officer, 2nd grade). 
Chief instructor. School of Mihtary Engineering. 
A.O. 264 I Chief instructor, Army Signal School. 
1912 I 

Commandant, Military Detention Barrack, 2nd class. 
Commissary of ordnance. 
Deputy-assistant adjutant-general. 
Deputy-assistant director at War Office. 
Deputy-assistant director of supphes and transport. 
Deputy-assistant director-general, A.M.S. 



* Arranged alpbabeticallj. 



A.O. 127 I 
1913 I 



Classification of Ranks. 



Deputy- assistant director of remounts. 

Deputy-assistant quartermaster-general. 

First assistant superintendent of building works. 

First assistant superintendent. Experimental Establishment, 

Shoeburj^ness. 
General staff officer, 2nd grade. 
Governor of military prison, 2nd class. 

Headmaster, Royal Hibernian Military School.t or Queen 
Victoria School, having rank of major (for quarters or lodging 
money, fuel and Ught, field allowance and travelling). 

Inspector, Inspection Staff, under the M.G.O. 

Inspector, Inspection Staff, A.O.D. 

Inspector, mechanical transport, 1st class. 

Inspector of army schools, having rank of major. 

Inspector of electric hghting (for field allowance and travelling). 

Inspector, ordnance machinery, 1st class. 

Inspector of works, having honorary rank of major. 

Major, A.V.C. 

Major instructor in gunnery. |- 
Major, E.A.M.C. 

Matron-in-Chief, Q.A.I.M.N.S. (for quarters, fuel and light, and 

servant allowance). 
Mihtary assistant to Chief Superintendent, Ordnance Factories. 
Ordnance officer, 3rd class. 

Proof and experimental officer. Research Department. 
Quartermaster and adjutant, Duke of York's Royal Mihtary 

School, Royal Hibernian Mihtary School, or Queen Victoria'. 

School, having rank of major. 

r Gazetted to the staff, educational estabhshments 
Quartermaster I departments, or R.A.M.C. or A.V.C., having 
Ridmg-master | ^^^j^r. 
Second in Command, Royal Mihtary CoUege. 
Secretary, Ordnance Board. 

Staff paymaster or paymaster, having rank of major. 
Superintending Inspector of Works. 



A.O. '240 
1913 



A.O. 106 

lyii 



Class 10.* 
Director of music, having rank of major. 
Instructor, Central Flymg School. 



• Arraneed alphabetically. , , . . . 

t The cost of quarters and fuel and ligl.t :s borne by civil votes. 



(B 10575) 



B 3 



A.O. 175 
1914 

A.O. 127 
1918 



Classification of Ranks. 



6 



Regimental major. 

Regimental quartermaster, having rank of major. 
Regimental riding-master, having rank of major. 
I Squadron commander. Royal Flying Corps (Military Wing), 
Surgeon-major of the Household Cavalry. 
Veterinary major. Household Cavalry. > 



Cla3s 11.* 

Assistant proof and experimental officer. Research Department. 
Assistant inspector, Inspection Staff, imder the M.G.O. 
Assistant inspector. Inspection Sta£E, A.O.D. 
I Assistant instructor. School of ililitary Engineering, if a captain. 
Assistant miHtary secretary. 
Assistant paymaster, having rank of captain. 
Brigade major and secretary. School of Military Engineering, 

having rank of captain. 
Brigade major other than at School of IMiHtary Engineering. 
Captain, A.V.C. 
Captain instructor in gunnery. 

Captain, R.A.M.C. 

Chaplain, 4th class, and temporary Roman Catholic chaplain. 
Chaplain on probation and acting chaplain (for field allowance 

and travelling). 
Chief Instructor, Ordnance CoUege. 

Chief Instructor, Royal Mihtary Academy, when not graded as 

general staff officer, 2nd grade. 
Commander of Company of Gentlemen Cadets, Royal Mihtary 

Academy or Royal Military CoUege. 
Danger buildings, officer in charge of. 
Deputy commissary of ordnance. 
Experimental officer. School of Musketry. 
General staff officer, 3rd grade. 

Headmaster, Royal Hibernian Mihtary School.f or Queen Victoria 
School, having rank of captain (for quarters or lodging money, 
fuel and hght, field allowance and travelling). 
Inspector of army schools, having rank of captain. 
Inspector, mechanical transport, 2nd class. 
Inspector of ordnance machinery, 2nd class. 
Inspector of works, having honorary rank of captain. 
Instructor, Ordnance College. 



A.O. 240 
1913 



• Arranged alphabetically. 

f The cost of quarters and fuel and light is borne by civil vote*. 



7 



Classification of Ranks. 



Instructor, School of Military Engiaeering. 

Instructor, School of Musketry. i 
Instructor, Army Signal School. | 

Officer for technical duties, School of Musketry. 
Ordnance officer, 4th class. 

Paymaster, or paymaster on probation after 3 months' service as 

such, having rank of captain. 
Principal matron, Q.A.I.M.N.S. for lodging money, fuel and Hghf, 

colonial and field allowances, traveUing (and servant allowance 

at headquarters). 
Private secretary to Inspector-General of the Forces. 
Quartermaster and adjutant, Duke of York's Royal MiKtary 

School, Royal Hibernian Military School, or Queen Victoria 

School, having rank of captain. 

r Gazetted to the staff, educational estabhsh- 
Quartermaster I ^^^^^ departments, or R.A.M.C. or A.V.C., 
Ridmg-master | ^^^^ captain. 
Range tables, officer for. Research Department. 
Recruiting Staff Officer, Classes 1 and 2. 
Second and thkd assistant superintendents, Building Works. 
Second and third assistant superintendents, Experimental 

estabhshment, Shoeburyness. 
Second assistant superintendent. Royal Laboratory. 
Secretary, Mechanical Transport Committee. 
Secretary, Royal Artillery Committee. 
Secretary, Royal Engineer Institute. 
Staff captain. 



A.O. 264 
1912 



A.O. 106 
1911 



A.O. 175 

1914 
A.O. 127 



Class 12.* 

f Director of music, having rank of captain. 

FUght commander. Royal Flymg Corps (MiHtary Wing), when not 

above the rank of captain. 

I9l3 

•j-Regimental captain. 

{Regimental quartermaster, having rank of captain, 
f Regimental riding-master, having rank of captain. 

Surgeon-captain of the Household Cavalry. 

Veterinary-captain, Household Cavahy. 



• Arranged alphabetically. 

t Except as provided in paras. 210 and <57W (.c;. 
(B 10575) ^ * 



Classification of Ranks. 



8 



Class 13.* 



A.O. 143 

1911 



A.O. 106 
1911 ■ 



Aide-de-camp (including A.D.C. to I.G. the Forces). 
Assistant commissary of ordnance. 
Assistant instructor, School of musketry. 

Assistant instructor, School of Military Engineering, if a 
lieutenant. 

Assistant paymaster, having rank of lieutenant. 

Headmaster, Royal Hibernian IMihtary School, j or Queen Victoria 
School, having rank of lieutenant (for quarters or lodging 
money, fuel and hght, field allowance and travelling). 

Inspector, mechanical ti-ansport, 3rd class. 

Inspector of army schools, having rank of lieutenant. 

Inspector, ordnance machinery, 3rd class. 

Inspector of Works, having honorary rank of lieutenant. 

Lieutenant, A.V.C. 

Lieutenant, R.A.M.C. 

Matrons, sisters and staff nxirses, Q.A.I.M.N.S., and matrons 
and charge nurses in mOitary families' hospitals (for lodging 
money, fuel and light, colonial and field allowances, and 
travelling). 

Paymaster, or paymaster on probation after 3 months' service as 

such, having rank of heutenant. 
Quartermaster and adjutant, Duke of York's Royal Military 

School, Royal Hibernian MiHtary School, or Queen Victoria 

School, having rank of lieutenant. 
Quartermaster ( ^^^^^^^^ *° staff, educational estabhsh- 
Riding-master ) f"^^*" °^ departments, or R. A.M.C., or A. V.C., 

(. havmg rank of heutenant. 
Schoolmaster, while acting as Inspector of Army Schools (except 

for servant allowance). 
Staff lieutenant. 



Class 14.* 

fDirector of music, having rank of lieutenant. 
•j-Regimental lieutenant. 

f Regimental quartermaster, having rank of Heutenant. 
fRegimental riding-master, having rank of lieutenant. 

Regimental second-heutenant. 

Veterinarj'-Heutenant, Household Cavalry. 



• Arranged alphabetically. 

+ Except as provided in paras. 210 and 279 (c). 

J The cost of quarters and fuel and light is borne by civil votes. 



9 



Classification of Ranks. 



Class 15.* 

Acting serjeant-major in a unit formed on mobilization. 

Chief warder in charge of a military detention barrack or branch 

detention barrack (for travelling abroad and passage only). 
Warrant officer. 

Class 16.* 

Chief warder, or principal warder of military detention barrack 

or military prison (for travelling abroad and passage). 
Master gunner, 3rd class. 

Quartermaster-corporal-major (Household Cavalry), or quarter- 

master-serjeant. 
Schoolmaster (when not a warrant officer) or probationer. 
Schoolmistress (except as provided for in paras. 242 and 279). 

Class 17.* 

Colour-serjeant. 

Squadron-corporal-major (Household Cavalry), or squadron, 

battery, troop, or company serjeant-major. 
Squadron - quartermaster - corporal (Household Cavalry), or 

squadron, battery, troop, or company quartermaster-serjeant. 
StafE-corporal (Household Cavaby), or stafE-serjeant. 
Warder, military detention barrack or military prison (for 

travelling abroad and passage). 

Class 18.* 

Soldier below class 17 employed as clerk in the War Office (for 
money allowances only). 

Class 19.* 
Corporal-of-horse (Household Cavalry). 
Serjeant. 

Class 20.* 

Bombardier. 

Corporal. 

Second-corporal. 

Trooper, private, gurmer, sapper or driver, pioneer (R.E.) 

2. The foregoing classification is subject to the following rules :— E*tes not 

(a) Brevet or army rank, temporary rank with the Territorial affected by 
Force given to an officer appointed adjutant, and local or other rank ^^^^^ • 
not carrying the pay of the rank, will not affect the rate of allow- temporary 
ance which an officer is entitled to draw. or local 

{b) In the case of an appointment not classified, the class to rank, 
which the officer holding such appointment belongs will be deter- 
mined by his substantive army rank. A brigadier-general will, 

" Arranged alphabetically. 



General Instructions respecting Allowances. 



10 



however, be entitled to allowances at Class 4 rates unless he receives 
pay in a rank or appointment otherwise classified. 
Half-pay (c) An officer in receipt of half-pay temporarily employed on the 
offlcers"^*^ staff, or a retired officer employed on the staff of a special reserve 
temper- brigade assembled for training, will be entitled to the allowances of 
arily em- his staff appointment, 
ployed. 

OfiScers ^ st&S officer succeeding temporarily to a higher appointment, 

arilv'flnino- '^^ ^ regimental officer temporarily filling a staff appointment, 
staff ap- whether during a vacancy or manoeuvres, or under any other 
pointments circumstances, will remain in receipt of his previous rates of allow- 
ances, when he receives a special rate of pay for the duty, 

(e) At manoeuvres, or at other military exercises, an officer 
already on the staff or a regimental officer, who performs the duties 
of an appointment for which he does not receive a special rate of 
pay covering increased allowances, wiU draw the rate of field 
allowance for the appointment held. 
Governors (/) A military governor of a colony, or a military officer adminis- 
of tering a colonial government and not drawing staff pay, is not 

Colonies, entitled to any allowances, although he may be in command of 
troops, but he may be reimbursed travelling expenses (without 
travelling allowance) when proceeding on military duty ; and when 
actually in the field during active operations he may receive the 
ordinary allowances of his rank. 
Officers (gr) Officers and soldiers who accept any civil employment which 

and men in necessitates their being struck off regular military duty are not 
ciTil em- .,-1.1, 
ployment. entitled to allowances. 

Boyal (h) An officer of the Royal Marines detached from his corps, and 

Marines. employed with the army, will receive the allowances of his rank at 
the rates laid down for army officers when similarly employed. 

3. No officer, soldier, or other person can draw allowances in 
more than one capacity. 
Allow- Unless otherwise provided in these regulations or in the local 

anoes as a regulations of stations abroad, allowances will be issued from the 
rule issued date on which officers and others join for duty, will continue only 
effect*ive recipients are present and effective at their miUtary 

^ ^"^^ stations and will not be admissible for the day of embarkation on 
leaving a command abroad, but may be drawn for the day of dis- 
embarkation on arrival at such command. In the case of an officer 
taking up a local or temporary appointment, or transferred to an 
appointment which entitles him to a higher rate of allowances, 
whether carrying higher rank or not, the issue will be made from 
the date of assuming duty, provided a vacancy has occurred, or a 
new appointment has been created. A reference should be made 
on the voucher in which the charge first appears to the general order 
notif3ang the arrival, appointment, or promotion of the officer, &c. 
to whom the allowances have been issued. The following cases, 



persons. 



11 



General Instructions respecting Allowances. 



in addition to those specifically mentioned in other sections of these j 
regulations, will be dealt with exceptionally, as shown below : — 

(a) An officer compulsorily retired or placed on half-pay, who, in officers 
consequence of not being reheved by his successor, or from other retained, 
special cause, is unavoidably retained in the performance of his 
duties, or who at a station abroad is detained waiting for a passage 
home, may continue to receive allowances during the period he is so 
retained, or detained. 

(b) Subject to the provisions contained in the following sections. Officers 
an officer at home awaiting embarkation may, though reheved of awaiting 
duty, continue to receive allowances as on the strength of his late ^i^n^'^'^'*" 
command or district in which he may be serving, to the day 
(inclusive) before that on which he is under orders to embark. 

5. If an A.D.C. not in receipt of consohdated pay remains at his A.D.C. 
station during the absence of his general officer, in excess of the during 
ordinary leave period, his allowances may be continued to him, q*o^q*'^j°^ 
subject to the provisions generally of these regulations. excess of 

leave. 

6. When an officer or soldier is promoted to a rank which entitles Issues on 
him to a higher rate of allowance, he will receive such higher rate Promotion, 
from the date of the promotion. ' 43 



Gen. Uo. 



3186 
Gen. No. 16 



2931 



Allowances at the married rate will be issuable, under the usual 
conditions, from the date of the vacancy on the married roll, or 
from the date of the marriage if that is subsequent to the occur- 
rence of the vacancy. 

7. Except where otherwise provided, a soldier on probation for, 
or temporarily performing the duties of, a higher rank or appoint- 
ment will remain in receipt of allowances at the rates laid down for 
his permanent rank. 

8. Subject to para. 1 of these regulations, the pay of a sub- Subordin- 
ordinate employed in a department who is not an effective soldier ate in army 
covers all allowances. No quarters will be allotted to a pensioner 

or civiHan subordinate employed direct by the pubhc unless his 
duties are such as clearly to involve residence in pubhc quarters. 

9. The stations in the Channel Islands will be considered as Channel 
, . Islands, 
home stations. 

10. An officer or soldier who was on the date of the promulgation 
of these regulations in receipt of a higher rate of allowances issuable 
under the regulations previously in force, may, with the special 
sanction of the Army Council, be permitted to continue to draw 
such higher rate, subject to the conditions on which such rate was 
issuable remaining unaltered. 

11. Any allowances which may not have been drawn within one 
year from the date on which they might have been claimed, will 
not be issued without the special sanction of the Army Council or 



Higher 
rates issu- 
able uudei 
previous 
regul'tions 



A Uow'nces 



89 
Allow- 
ances 
undrawn. 



General Instructions respecting Allowances. 



12 



Claims. 

106 



Gen. No. 



1719 



an officer duly authorized by them ; and such sanction will not 
be given unless the circumstances represented show sufficient 
reasons for the allowances not having been drawn at the proper time. 

12. Claims for allowances will be made on the appropriate Army 
forms, and will be endorsed by the head of the staff or department, 
or by the O.C. the unit, to which the claimant belongs. 



Abroad, 
oiBcers 
leaving 
station. 



Loral 

regulations 

abroad. 



Tem- 
porary 
deviations 
from rates, 

lABues on 
repayment 



13. The claims of an officer or soldier quitting a station abroad 
should be adjusted before he leaves the command ; if from any 
unavoidable cause this is not done, application will be made by 
the officer to the local authorities of his previous station for the 
allowances outstanding. AU claims preferred by officers or soldiers, 
who have left India, for allowances for periods of service m India, 
will be addressed to the local authorities in that country, as such 
claims will not be entertained by the India Office. In the case of 
soldiers the claims wiU be sent through their CO. 

14. Local regulations for allowances will be pubHshed in each 
command abroad and no permanent alteration in the rates and 
scales laid down in these regulations involving increased cost to 
the public shall be made without the previous approval of the 
Army Council. 

On the 1st April in every third year three copies of the local 
regulations, revised up to the 31st March preceding, will be for- 
warded to the War Office. 

15. Any temporary deviations from rates and scales which 
G.Os.C. at home or abroad are empowered by these regulations 
to authorize wiU in no case be continued for a longer period than 
six months without the authority of the Army Council. 

16. The prices to be charged for all supplies issued on repayment — 
except as provided for in paras. 44 and 45, which apply to the army 
only — should cover the fuU cost of the articles, with the following 
additional charges for departmental expenses : — 



Home and Abroad. 

2 J per cent, upon all supphes obtained under contract or 

purchased locally. 
6 per cent, upon all supphes manufactured in army departments. 



Adjust- 
ment of 
over 
Usues. 



Abroad. 

To cover transport charges, a further 10 per cent, should be 
added to the cost of all supphes sent from home. 
17. When rations overdrawn in error are adjusted by payment at 
contract rates departmental expenses wiU not be recovered. 



13 



General Instructions respecting Issues and Charges. 



General Instructions for Isstiing and Charging 
AUowances. 

18. Allowances to officers issuable under these regulations will 
be paid and charged by the command paymaster of the command 
in which the officer's permanent station is situated, with the 
following exceptions : — 

(a) The allowances of officers of the regular establishment, special 
reserve, and permanent staff, territorial force, and of all regular 
officers attached to the special reserve and territorial force will be 
paid by the regimental paymaster of the unit to which they are 
attached. 

(6) The allowances of officers on the establishment of the Central 
Flying School will be paid by the command paymaster. Southern 
Command, those of other officers of the Royal Flying Corps (Tililitary 
Wing) by the command paymaster, Aldershot. The latter officer 
will also pay the allowances of officers attached to the Royal Flying 
Corps, whether at the School or with the Military Wing. 

(c) Servant allowance at home stations may be paid by the 
agent who issues the officer's pay, except (i) when specially 
authorized by the G.O.C. under para. 515, and (ii) in the case of 
the allowance for a groom authorized by para. 516. 

(d) Personal mess allowance at home stations may be paid by 
the agent who issues the officer's pay. 

(e) Company mess allowance will be paid by the command pay- 
master of the command in which the unit is quartered. 

Travelling claims of officers will be adjusted as laid down in 
paras. 425 to 429. 

19. Allowances due to soldiers will be charged in the same pay 
list as their regimental pay. Allowances due to recruits will be 
issued and adjusted in the same manner as the recruits' pay (see 
the Army Council's instructions in the Pay Warrant). 

20. Whenever an officer or soldier is in receipt of an exceptional 
rate of allowance in money or in kind under special War Office 
authority, a certified copy of the authority will accompany the 
first claim, and the number and date of such authority will be 
quoted in support of subsequent charges. 

21. Paymasters will be furnished with the original or certified 
copies of orders for all issues made under the direction of the G.O.C. 
or other local authorities. 



Allowancea 
by -whom 
paid. 

16 



Gen. Ko. 



3162 



48 



lufantry 



729 



How 
charged. 



Excep- 
tional 
rates. 



Copies at 
orders. 



Provisions. 



14 



Section 2.— PROVISIONS. 

I.— PERSONS ENTITLED TO RATIONS. 

22. Provisions will be issued as follows : — 



At home. 



A.O. 341 



1913 



Stations 
abroad. 



Active 
•ervice. 

When in- 
admis- 
sible. 



At Home Stations. 

(a) One ration for each soldier on the effective strength of the 
army. 

(b) One ration to a recruit for each day before attestation for 
which pay is admissible. 

(c) Where the attestation of a recruit for the regular army or 
special reserve for whom pay is not admissible is unavoidably 
delayed and it is necessary to detain him at or near the headquarters 
pending attestation, the G.O.C. may sanction the issue of such food 
as he may consider necessary, from the day when the recruit presents 
himself for enlistment to the day preceding that on which he is 
attested, or to the day of final rejection. 

(d) One ration for an army schoolmaster on probation. 

At Stations Abroad. 

(c) One ration for each officer not in receipt of a consolidated 
rate of pay, soldier on the effective strength of the army, or barrack 
warden. 

(J) Half a ration for the wife of each soldier who is on the married 
estabUshment, and for each schoolmistress (not being an acting 
schoolmistress), female pupil teacher, or acting pupil teacher. 

(g) Quarter of a ration for each child of the above xmder 14 years 
of age. 

(h) Rations for civiUan grooms employed by mounted officers 
who cannot obtain the services of soldier grooms and who are not 
drawing servant allowance in heu (except at a reduced rate on 
active service). 

The number of grooms for whom rations may be drawn under 
these conditions will be — 

1, if the officer is entitled to forage for 1 or 2 horses. 

2 ,, 3 „ 4 

3 „ 5 „ 6 

23. During active operations the G.O.C. may authorize issues of 
free rations to persons not provided for in the foregoing regulations. 

24. Rations in money or kind will not be admissible : — 

(a) For days on which soldiers are provided with a hot meal by 
an innkeeper in billets.* 

* Such issues are limited by tlie Army Act to the first three days (in- 
cluding the day of arrival) in billets at any one place. After the first three 
days, rations or ration allowance will be issued under the usual conditions, 
plus vinegar and salt to be provided by the innkeeper under the Act 



15 



Rations. 



(&) For soldiers and others when dieted in a military or civil 
hospital, prison, military detention barrack, or in a lunatic asylum, i ^^'^ 

(c) For soldiers subsisted on board ship at the pubhc expense. ^^^'^ 

(d) For oJEcers or their servants when officers are on leave. Issues to 
other than sick leave at the station, except for grooms left behindl oncers on 
in charge of horses for which the officers draw forage. ^®2^q 

19T2 

25. Soldiers absent without leave for more than 24 hours will be Absentees 
struck off the ration hst. 

26. A soldier on the day of his release from a military detention Soldiers on 
barrack or prison may receive a ration, or the allowance in lieu, release 
unless he is not released imtil the afternoon and is subsisted in a . 
military detention barrack or prison ; if sent from abroad as a ^®*®°''°°> 
soldier under sentence for discharge in England, he may be rationed 

until he is discharged. 

27. Care must be taken that rations unavoidably or accidentally Rations 
drawn in excess of the requirements of the unit for any day are over- 
retained for issue on the following day. drawn. 

II.— SCALES OF RATIONS. 

28. The daily scale of rations is as follows :— 

At Home Stations. 

(a) In barracks or stationary r 1 lb. bread or f lb. biscuit. |Scale, 
quarters S J lb- fresh or 1 lb. (nominal) pre- ^o^^ 

1 served meat. ^^^^ 

(b) Under canvas or (with-, 1 lb. bread or f lb. biscuit I 19^3 
the approval of the G.O.C.) when I 1 lb. fresh or 1 lb. (nominal) pre- 
temporarily accommodated in r served meat. 

unequipped buildings J 

At Stations Abroad. 

(c) Except at stations where special scales are detailed in the Scale, 
local regulations the scale will be :— abroad^ 

1 lb. bread or f lb. biscuit. T 
1 lb. fresh meat or 1 lb. (nominal) preserved meat. 

29. Flour may be issued in lieu of a portion of the bread ration, -pio^ix. 
The flour so issued will be equivalent in value to the bread for 
which it is substituted. Meat, 



30. When meat is supplied in bulk and cut up by the troops, 
an allowance of 1 per cent, on the regulated issues may be made 
and charged in the accounts to cover losses in cutting up, except 
in cases at stations abroad where contractors are required to make 
such allowance under the terms of their contract. 

31. Groceries will not be suppUed as a pubhc issue, except at the 
stations abroad where special scales are in force. 



losses in 
cutting up. 

53 



Gen. No. 



4G66 

Grocery 
rations. 



Rations. 



IG 



Special 
issues. 



Addition 
to tho 
ordinary 
rations. 



32. The G.O.C. may sanction special issues for iastruction.-il 
purposes to army medical laboratories, schools of cookery, and to 
hospitals where cooking classes are held. 

33. Additions to the ordinary rations may be sanctioned by the 
G.O.C. on very exceptional occasions, such as when the troops are 
only able to obtain their meals at irregular and inconvenient hours, 
owing (a) to unexpected delay in the hour of embarkation ; (b) to 
the exigencies of the service at manoeuvres or summer drills ; (c) to 
their being employed on unusually onerous and prolonged duty. 
The authority for the additional issues will be attached as a voucher 
to the account. 

No other change in the scales prescribed by regulations will be 
made without the sanction of the Army CoimciL 

34. On very exceptional occasions, as when the troops have been 
drenched or chilled through exposure on manoeuvres or training, a 
free ration of half a gill {-^ gallon) of rxan may, if available, be 
issued under the authority of the G.O.C. when certified by the senior 
medical officer to' be absolutely necessary for safeguarding the 
health of the troops. 

33. In case of active operations in the field, a special scale of 
rations, dependent on the climate and the circumstances of the 
expedition, will be fixed by the G.O.C, and reported to the War 
Office, but the following scale will, as far as possible, be adopted 
as a guide : — 

IJ lb. fresh meat, or 1 lb. (nominal) preserved meat. 

1^ lb. bread, or 1 lb. biscuit, or 1 lb. flour. 

4 oz. bacon. 

3 oz. cheese. 

2 oz. peas or beans, or dried potatoes. 
I oz. tea. 

I lb. jam. 

3 oz. sugar. 
^ oz. salt. 

Jjj oz. mustard. 
h oz- pepper. 

TO gill- iah gf^-U-) jmce. 

J gill gal.) rum 

Tobacco, not exceeding 2 oz, ^ 

per week, for those who f 

smoke J 

Fresh vegetables, whenever obtainable, will be issued at the 
rate of ^ lb. per ration, and when these are supplied, peas, 
beans or dried potatoes and lime juice will not be required. 

The above ration is on the basis that not less than 4,500 energy 
units (calories) are required to meet the needs of field service. 

36. An " iron ration," for issue on field service, will consist of 
the following : — 



j At 
yon 



the discretion of the G.O.C. 
the recommendation of the 



17 



Ration Allowance. 



1 lb. (nominal) preserved meat. 
12 oz. biscuit. 
3 oz. cheese 

1 oz. tea -| 

2 oz. sugar I in a tin. 
^ oz. salt J 

2 cubes of meat extract (1 oz.). 

III.—TABLE OF EQUIVALENTS. 

37. When it may be necessary, or, in the opinion of the G.O.C., 
expedient to depart from the scale laid down in para. 35, the fol- 
lowing scale of equivalents will be followed 



A.O. 218 



iyi3 



Equiva- 
lents. 



Oatmeal 


4 oz. = 


4 oz. bread or biscuit. 


Biscuit 


1 lb. = 


IJ lb. bread. 


ilice 


4 oz. = 


4 oz. bread or biscuit. 


Chocolate 


h oz. = 


J oz. tea. 


Preserved meat 


... 1 lb. (nom.) = 


1 ration fresh meat, 




li lb. 


Porter 


1 pint = 


1 spirit ration. 


Dried fruit of any sort 


4 oz. = 


4 oz. jam. 


Bacon 


4 oz. = 


4 oz. butter, lard or 




margarine, or ^ giU 
sweet oil. 



Any food may be used in substitution for articles mentioned 
above, provided that it is of about the same energy value. The 
price should be also considered where practicable so that the cost 
of the equivalents may be as near as possible to that of the standard 
ration. 

38. When troops are under canvas at home, the extra J lb. of 
fresh meat allowed, or any portion of it, may, at the option of the gp"^!. 
CO., be left undrawn, and the money value of the quantity 
undrawn may be expended regimentally in purchasing bacon, cheese, 
or other usual articles of messing. 



Equiva- 



IV.— MONEY ALLOWANCE IN LIEU OF RATIONS. 



at 



39. When a ration is not issued, a daily allowance of 6d. 
home stations may be drawn by — 

(a) AU persons entitled to rations at stations where there is no 
contract for bread and meat, or who, while traveUing, cannot be 
supplied with them. . x i 

(b) Warrant officers, except unmarried regimental warrant 

o£B.C6I?3 

(c) Soldiers on leave, pass, or furlough, and soldier servants 
allowed to accompany their masters on leave, including those on 
furlough from a station abroad. 



Allowance 
in lieu 
of rations 
at home 
stations. 



Allow- 
ances 



89 



Rations Issued on Repayment. 



18 



(d) Recruits who have not been finally passed into the service, or 
who join their unit too late to bo included in the ration return, for 
days on which they are entitled to pay. 

(e) N.C.Os. and men employed in the recruiting service. 

(/) Men employed as waiters or servants at the officers' mess. 

{g) Men employed as officers' servants when their masters live 
at an inconvenient distance from the barracks. 

(h) Soldiers employed on any duty which renders it desirable in 
the opinion of the G.O.C., that the allowance in lieu should be 
granted. 

The soldiers specified in (/) and (g) may be struck out of mess 
and draw the money allowance under the authority of the O.C. the 
unit ; those in (h) only under the authority of the G.O.C. 

40. In the cases mentioned in para 22 (c) where it is not con- 
venient to issue food in kind, a money allowance not exceeding 
Is. a day may be granted, at the discretion of the G.O.C. 

41. The G.O.C. may, in quite exceptional cases and as a tem- 
porary measure only, grant such special allowance in lieu of rations 
as the circumstances of the case may necessitate, his authority 
being attached as a voucher to the account. Grants continuing 
for more than sis months, e.g., for isolated forts or stations difficult 
of access, where no contract could be entered into and Xi^e cost of 
living is exceptionally high, will be reported to the War Office 
xmder para. 15. 

42. When the ration is not issued at a sBation abroad, a money 
allowance in lieu thereof may be paid at a rate which (unless a 
special rating is sanctioned for the occasion by the G.O.C.) will 
not exceed the contract prices of the supplies not issued. If, 
however, the issue in kind cannot be made through the exigencies 
of the service, the money allowance may be fixed at a rate not 
exceeding the contract value of the ration by more than 20 per 
cent. The circumstances rendering the fixing of a rate higher 
than the contract value necessary will in all cases be reported to 
the War Office. 



v.— ISSUES ON REPAYMENT. 

Rations on 43. During summer drills or under other special circumstances, 
repayment. ^Jjq {ssne of rations on repayment may be authorized by the G.O.C. 

for officers or persons not ordinarily entitled to receive them. The 
officer i/c supplies will notify to the command paymaster the sums 
to be recovered. (<See para. 16.) 



..\J. U*l 

T913 



Excep- 
tional rate 
of allow- 
ance in 
lien. 

63 

Gen. No. 
4500 

Allowance 
in lieu at 
stations 
abroad. 

8 

Allow- 
ances 
89 



19 



Rations— Mode of Issue, &c. 



A.O. 294 
1912 



A.O. 309 

1913 



44. At stations where there is a government butchery or bakery, Bread and 
and where a separate store for the purpose exists, bread and meat 
may be suppHed to officers and their famiUes, and to such detached 
married soldiers and departmental subordinates as may be speciall v 
approved by the G.O.C., in quantities not exceeding 1 lb. a da. 
for each of the persons comprised in a family or household. 

Payment for meat so supphed will be made direct to the con- 
tractor by the purchaser at Jd. per lb. above the contract rate. 
Payment for bread so supplied will be made at the end of each! 
pay list period by corps through the command paymaster, who 
will be furnished by the officer i/c supplies with a statement 
of the siuns due. The price to be charged for bread per lb. shall 
be fixed at the next farthing above the actual cost to the government 
when such cost does not work out at even money. 

45. At all stations extra meat at the rate of J lb., and bread at Extra meat 
the rate of |^ lb., a day, may be drawn on repayment at actual t)read. 
cost for each soldier included in the ration return, for use in 
recreation rooms, and for other similar purposes. Payment will be 
made by corps at the end of each pay list period direct to the con-| 
tractor, except in the case of bread at stations where there is a ■ 
government bakery, when payment will be made by corps at thej 
•end of the pay list period to the command paymaster. 



A.O. .B09 
1913 



VI.— MODE OF ISSUE AND ACCOUNTING. 



StaH and Departments, &c. 

46. The head of each department, &c., will, at the beginmng of F^^ents^^ 
sach pay Hst period, send to the officer i/c suppUes a Hst of persons [^.g^^^.j^g^ 
for whom rations will be required. He will also notify, duruig the 

pay hst period any casualty affecting the list which may occur. Onj 
the last day of the pay list period, A.F. P 776 wiU be rendered to) 
account for the disposal. , 

47. At the end of each pay list period the officer i/c supphes |Oertificate 
wiU furnish to each head of a department a certfficate on A.F. .^^^^^^ 

F 743, showmg the number of rations issued. This certificate will be 
forwarded to the paymaster with the pay and mess book. After 
being checked, the certificate will be initialed and forwarded to the 
local auditor of the command in which the rations were issued 

48. In camp and in the field, an officer or N.C.O. will be told ofl l:^PP^'^^^n 
in heu of the head of each department, &c., for the duty of making l^^^^'^ 
the indents for the supplies required for the officers and soldiers of 

the whole staff at the station, and will act upon the rules laid down 
for quartermasters of regiments. 



Rations— Mode of Issue, &c. 



20 



Ration 
returns. 
A.O. 30.1 
1913 



I 



Soldiers 
attached. 

Royal 

Marines 

attached. 

Settl -ment 
for rations. 
Certificate 
of supply 
oflScer. 

A.O. 309 
1918 
Special 
reserve. 

Running 
account. 

Under- 
drawals 
and over- 
drawals. 

63 

Gen. No. 



Regimental Issues and Returns.— Ordinary Service. 

I 49. On arrival, and subsequently on the first day of each pay 
I list period, the quartermaster will hand in the ration return of the 

on A ? ^%7r '"PP*'"'' ^ duplicate thereof, 

on A^. ± 776. After comparing the duplicate with the original, 
the officer wiU retain one copy, and return the other to the quarter- 
master who wall on each succeeding day exchange his copy, 
similarly filled m, for that retained by the officer i/c suppHes! 
ifie quartermaster will each day affix his initials as an acknowledg- 
jment of having received the quantities. At the end of the pav 
'list period the return will be completed and surrendered to the 
officer i/c supplies, as his voucher for the issue to the unit. 

50. The O.C. will include in his ration return aU soldiers attached 
for rations, and will show separately, on such return, any issues of 
bread and meat which may be made for men of the territorial 
force or Royal Marines who may be attached to his unit The 
value of the issues to the Royal Marines will be recovered as directed 
in the Financial Instructions. 

j 51. On the ration return (A.F. F 776) being closed at the end of 
leach pay list period the officer i/c supplies" -nill furnish to each 
umt a certificate (on A.F. F 743) sho^^ing the number of rations 
drawn. After the distribution has been shown on the back of 
A.F. F 743, it will be disposed of in the manner laid down in 
para. 47. 

52. In the case of special reserve units, A.F. F 776 -m'll be closed 
at the end of each period for which pay lists are rendered, in order 
that A.F. F 743 may accompany each pay Hst. 

53. The adjustment of rations in kind will be made daily as 
necessary, but to meet any unforeseen casualties which may occur 
too late to be adjusted during the period of the pay list, a modified 
running account to the extent of 10 rations either underdrawn 
or overdrawn will be permitted for each pay list period in the year 
except January, on the last day of w^hich pay list period a cash 
settlement for overdrawals will be made, and any underdrawals 
will be forfeited. 

The contract value of rations overdrawn in excess of the above 
limit will be credited to the public by the paymaster in his account 
for the pay list period in which the overdrawal took place, but the 
amount so credited will be refunded if the G.O.C. (to wliom the 
matter may be referred by the O.C. the unit) decides that the 
overdrawal was not due to negligence on the part of the unit ; 
underdrawals in excess of the limit may, under the same circum- 
Btances, be carried forward to the next account. In dealing with 
these appeals the G.O.C. will satisfy himself that the overdrawal or 
underdrawal was unavoidable, and occurred so late in the month 



21 



Hospital Diets. 



as to render an adjustment impossible within the period of the 
pay list. 

Any amount authorized to be refunded as above will be admitted 
as a charge against the public if supported by the authority (in 
original) of the G.O.C., and a reference to the account in which 
credit has been given for the amount referred to. 

54. The rations drawn by squadrons, troops, batteries, or 
companies, wiU be accounted for in the abstract of rations in the 
pay list, A.F. N 1505, and will, when necessary, be further vouched 
by A.F. P 1950. 

55. Rations in kind which have not been claimed in the pay 
Ust period to which they belong will be considered as back forfeited 
rations, and no issues on account of them will be made except as 
allowed by para. 53. 

56. Surcharges made for over-issues are not to be accounted for 
by replacing the articles in kind, but by payment of their value. 



Abstract 
of ration! 
I A.O. 309 
1913 

, jBack 
■rations 



Sur- 
charges. 



VII.— HOSPITAL RATIONS AND STOPPAGES. 

57. Except at stations abroad, where special scales are in force. Diets on 
which are detailed in the local regulations of the station, issues will "g^'^^^^ 
be made to the patients specified in para. 73 in accordance with the 
following scales, according to the diet upon which each patient may 
be placed : — 

Diets. 



Article. 



Class of diet. 



Ordinary. 



Eoast.* 



Meat rbeef or mutton) — 
Witnont bone ... ozs. 

With bone ... „ 



Bread (white or brown) „ 

Tea „ 

Sugar „ 

Milk „ 

, pints 

Butter ... ... ozs 

Potatoes 

Vegetables ,i 

Eice ... 



8 


8 


(steak) 


10 


10 


(chop or 




(joint). 


16 


16 


i 


i 


I' 


I' 






"k 
8 


"k 


8 


4 


4 



Boiled.f 



Ghickenf 

(not 
issuable 
in dining- 
rooms). 



Beef 
tea. 



Half a 
fowl 



16 

i 

6 

"n 

8 
4 



8 

(beef). 

10 
(beef). 

16 

4 

6 



» Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Friday 
f Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. 
X Half a rabbit = half a fowl. 



Scale. 



Jlilk. 



12 

"i 

a 
1 



Hospital Diets. 



22 



Extras. 



Bcale. 



58. In cases in which patients cannot be placed on a diet, the 
articles required for their subsistence will be issued as extras. 

59. Extras to be ordered when considered necessary for the 
treatment of the case. 



Extras. 



Butter Bread (white or brown) 

Milk* Arrowroot 

Tea Sago 

I Sugar Oatmeal 

A.O. 198 Blanc-mange^ 
Rice I 

>-pudding 



1911 



24 



London 



J 



Sago 
Tapioca 
Custard 
Beef-tea 

Egg-flip 

Lemonade, bottled 

Calves' foot Jelly 

Customary fruits in season ... 
"White fish, 12 ozs. gross weight 

Milk ^proteid 

Suet pudding 

Cocoa 

Golden syrup 

Eggs ... 

Jam or marmalade 

"Wines* (Port, Sherry) 

Brandy* 

Malt liquors (stout, ale) 

('Barley water ... 
Eioe water 
Gruel 



Class of diet upon which admissible. 



Diet drinks 



I Lemonade 
\ Soda water 



Potatoes, 8 ozs., or 
Vegetables, 4 ozs. 



!- All diota. 



176 



Upon beef-tea diet when it is found 
necessary to keep a patient on this 
diet for any lengthened period or 
when there is a tendency to scor- 
butic taint. 

Articles issued as extras will ordinarily be selected from those shown in 
the above table, but for officers, members of Q.A.I.M.N.S., matrons and 
charge-nui-ses of military families' hospitals, or for special cases, articles 
not specified in the table may be issued if considered necessary by the 
medical officer. 



Measure of » Milk, wines, and spirits are to be calculated at 20 oz. the imperial pint. The 
uquias. reputed quart bottle of wines and spirits should contain 5J gills, or 26J ozs. 



Meals in 

dining 

rooms. 



60. 'For patients taking their meals in dining rooms, the only 
extras admissible are oatmeal, jam, mai-malade, golden syrup, 
puddings, bread, butter, cocoa, tea, sugar, milk, and eggs. Where 
there are a number of patients so taking meals, medical officers will 
be responsible that steps are taken to ensure that only the quantities 



23 



Hospital Diets. 



of these articles -which may be actually required are issued. In the 
case of puddings so issued, a reduction of not less than 25 per cent, 
should normally be made. Malt liquors are not admissible for 
patients taking their meals in dining rooms. 

61. When any of the extras specified in para. 59 or 60 are I^gre- 
ordered, they will be made and charged according to the following 
proportions : — 

Barley-water — barley, 2 ozs. ; sugar, 2 ozs. ~i For every 5 pints of 

Rice-water — rice, 2 ozs. ; sugar, 2 ozs. J each. 

Lemonade — two large lemons and 1^ ozs. of sugar 1 to every 2 

Gruel — oatmeal, 2 ozs., and ozs. of sugar J pints. 

Suet-pudding — flour, 2 ozs. ; suet, 1 oz. ; baking powder, ^ oz. ; 
salt, ^ oz. ; with jam or golden syrup as required. 

Blanc-mange pudding — cornflour, 1 oz. ; sugar, IJ ozs.; milk,! 
12 ozs. I ^^^^ 

Rice-pudding — rice, 1 oz. ; milk, 15 ozs. ; sugar, J oz. ; egg, 1. 

Sago pudding — sago, 1 oz. ; milk, 15 ozs. ; sugar, J oz ; egg, 1. 

Tapioca pudding — tapioca, 1 oz. ; milk, 15 ozs. ; sugar, J oz. ; 
egg, 1. 

Custard pudding — milk, 1 pint ; sugar, 1 oz. ; eggs, 2. 

Oatmeal, 2 ozs. ; with milk, 8 ozs. 

Arrowroot, 2 ozs. ; with sugar, 1 oz. 

Sago, 2 ozs. ; with sugar, 1 oz. 

Egg-flip ; 2 eggs with ^ oz. sugar. 

Tea, per pint ; ^ oz. tea ; | oz. sugar, 3 ozs. milk. 

^ , , . ^ f 1 lb. fresh beef, without bone, or 

Beef tea, per pmt | ^ ^^^^ ^^^^.^^t. 

62. When " pudding " is ordered, patients will be supplied with 
pudding as follows : — Sunday, blanc-mange ; Monday, sago ; 
Tuesday, suet ; Wednesday, rice ; Thursday, blanc-mange ; Friday,! ^.0. 198 
tapioca ; Saturday, suet. _ I 1911 

63. The following kitchen sundries may be indented for if 

Kitchen 

required, and will be accounted for on A.F. F 734 and A.F. 1 1202 : — sundries. 
Spices, ^ oz., per 100 diets to include extras. 

Butter, 1 oz., for sauce with each extra fish, or boiled chicken and, 

boiled mutton diets. ^■?:}}^- 

Flour, J oz., for sauce with each extra fish, or boiled chicken and 
boiled mutton diets, and' for each diet ordered to be stewed, or I 
made with soup. 

Vinegar, ^ pint, per 100 diets. 

Lemons, 2 per 100 diets. 

Pepper, \ Pi'^^ °^ ^^^^^ sauces, fish, 

Salt, i oz. J &c. 
Herbs, J oz. per 100 diets. 

Egg, 1 "I for figh cutlets, &c., when fried. 

Bread, 4 ozs. J 
Salad oil, J pint per 100 diets. 



1912 



Hospital Diets. 



24 



Ice. 



Bubsti- 

fcUtCH. 



On aotiTe 
service. 



When 
floldiers 
ara only 
Umpo- 

treated. 



Gelatine, 1 oz. per 100 diets. 

Sugar, 8 ozs. per 100 diets for colouring soups, gravies, <S:r, 

Salt, I oz. per d'efc, except milk diet under para. 57 ; { oz. per 
diet, except milk diet, under para. 71. 

Pepper, 2 ozs. per 100 diets, except milk diet, unflcr para. 57, 
and for women, and children over 10 years of age, under para. 71 ; 
1 oz. per 100 diets, except milk diet, for children under 10 j'cars of 
age, under para. 71. 

Mustard, 1 oz. per 20 beef diets, under para. 57, and for women, 
and children over 10 yea,Ts of age, under para. 71 ; ^ oz. per 20 
beef diets for children under 10 years of age, under para. 71. 

Barley or split peas, or lentils, or haricot beans, 1 oz., or rice, 
1| oz., per ordinary diet, when boiled, under para. 57, and for 
low diet for women, and children over 10 years of age, under para. 71. 
Barley, or split peas, or lentils, or haricot beans, ^ oz., or rice, f oz., 
for low diet for children under 10 years of age, under para. 71. 

64. Ice required for the preservation of supplies during hot 
weather may be specially issued under the authority of the G.O.C. 
on the recommendation of the D.D.M.S., the authority being quoted 
on A.Fs. F 735 and F 736. 

65. The following rates will be allowed for substitutes : — 

2 ozs. lime juice = 1 lemon. 

3 ozs. rice, or "1 



8 ozs. bread J 
1 oz. preserved potatoes = 5 ozs. fresh potatoes. 
1 oz. preserved vegetables — 10 ozs. fresh vegetables, 
J oz. coffee = ^ oz. of tea, or J oz. cocoa powder. 
1 oz. cocoa powder = 4 ozs. cocoa paste. 

1 tin condensed milk = 1|^ pints. 

2 calves' feet (fresh) = 1 quart of calves' foot jelly. 

66. On active service, in general hospitals at the base, and in 
stationary hospitals on the lines of communication, the scale of 
diets laid down in para. 57 will be followed as far as practicable, 
and any deviations found necessary, on account of the position, 
cHmate, or the supplies obtainable, will be sanctioned by the 
G.O.C, on the advice of the D.D.M.S. If a special hospital for 
officers is formed on active service the scale of issues will be fixed 
from time to time by the G.O.C. and reported to the War Office. 

67. In the event of a soldier not being likely to require treatment 
beyond that of the day on which he has reported himself sick, he 
will be detained in the hospital for that day only and subsisted 
from his unit, to which he will return if considered fit for duty ; 
but if at the evening visit he is found unfit for duty, he will be 
regularly admitted and placed on hospital diet for the following 
day, notice to that effect being sent to the O.C. his unit. 




25 



Hospital Diets. 



68. Soldiers will not be placed on diet on the day of admission Extras to 
to hospital, but should they require nourishment, in addition to soldiers on 
the ration supplied by their company (which should be sent to the 
hospital uncooked whenever practicable) before they are placed hospital, 
on regular diet, medical officers may order what is necessary from 

the following extras : — 

Bread, butter, tea, sugar, eggs, meat extract or essence of beef, 
arrowroot, milk, wine, and brandy. 

On the day of departure of invalids who are not on diet, a similar 
course may be adopted, but in all such cases the extras will be 
entered on the diet sheet. 

The rule here laid down will usually be applicable to field service. On field 
but should soldiers in the field not bring with them the rations which service, 
have been drawn regimentally for the day of admission, they will be 
fully subsisted for that day under hospital arrangements according 
to their requirements. 

69. In non-dieted hospitals, on ordinary peace service, the For non- 
company ration will be supplied from the unit to which the soldiers dieted 
belong, and the following extras will be issued when considered ^ 
necessary : — Meat extract or essence of beef, sugar, tea, oatmeal, 
arrowroot, barley, -\vine, brandy, mustard, pepper, salt, milk, eggs, 

and the diet drinks — barley water, rice water, gruel, soda water and 
lemonade — referred to in para. 59. 

70. When, owing to there being no hospital at the station, Men 
soldiers have to be treated in quarters, the extras specified in treated in 
para. 69 (except wine and brandy) may be supphed when considered 1^^'' 
necessary by the medical officer. 

Issues to Families of Soldiers. 

71. At stations where hospitals for military families, infectious Issues at 
wards, or a ward for the reception of members of Q.A.I.M-N.S.|™jJitary_ 
have been established, patients under treatment will receive thelj^ospjtais, 
diets and extras as laid down in the following scales : — etc 

24 
London 
' 176 



Hospital Diets. 



26 



Diets for Women, and Children over 10 years of age. 



Articla. 



Class of diet. 



Beef or Mutton* — 
Without bone 

(or) 
With bone ... 

Fowl 

Bread 

Tea 

Sugar 

Milk 

Butter 

Potatoes 

Vegetables 

RiceJ 

Eggs (for pudding) 



Ko. 
oz. 



pints 
oz. 



5 
G 
12 

X 

•/ 
S* 

8 
4 

1 
1 



o 



o 



12 

X 

H 
1 

8 
4 
1 
1 



4 
5 
14 

X 

4 

2 

If 



12 



Extras, as laid down in paras, 58, 59 and 61 . Kitchen sundries 
as laid down in para. 63. 

Diets for Children under 10 years of age. 



Article. 



Class of diet. 



O 
1^ 



I 



Beef or Muttonf- 
Without bone 

(or) 
With bone ... 

Fowl 

Bread 

Sugar 

Milk 

Butter 

Potatoes 

Vegetables 

Eicef 

Eggs (for pudding) 



oz. 


3 




2 




4 




n 


No. 




X 

4, 


oz. 


8 


8 


"i 






1* 


I* 


pints 


H 


31 




oz. 


1 


1 


1 


»> 


4 


4 




11 


2 


2 


"i 




1 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 



4 

X 

4 



Extras, as laid down in paras. 58, 59 and 61. Kitchen sundries 
as laid down in para. 63. 

•On varied diet — beef, 3 days; mutton 2 days; Irish stew, 1 day; fish 
(8 oz. gross weight), or ^ a rabbit may be issued for 1 day. 

t On varied diet — beef, 3 days ; mutton, 2 days; Irish stew, 1 day; fish 
(6 oz. gross weight), or J of a rabbit may be issued for 1 day. 

t As a substitute for rice, j- oz. of sago or tapioca may be issued 2 days 
each week. Bread pudding, 4 oz., with ^ oz. sultanas, may be issued 1 day 
each week, on varied and chicken diets. 



27 



Hospital Stoppages. 



72. At stations where hospitals for military families have not Issues at 
been established, but where there is a medical officer, or private "[^j'j^^'J 
medical practitioner employed at contract rates, the following 
imedical comforts : — 

Wine (port or sherry). 
Brandy, 
Arrowroot, 

Meat extract or essence of beef, 

I may be issued in case of sickness to the families* of soldiers on the 
I married roU of their unit. Fresh meat will not be supphed for the 
[preparation of beef -tea. 



1 Persons entitled to Hospital Diets, and Rates of Stoppage. 

73. The Regulations for the Army Medical Service lay down 
tthe conditions under which patients may be admitted to military 
'hospitals. 

When patients are admitted to military hospitals under the 
I conditions prescribed by the Regulations for the Army Medical 
'Service, the daily rate of stoppage will be as follows : — 
{a) Officers and soldiers admitted on account of wounds 
r received in action or illness contracted while on service 

lin the field NU. 

(6) Officers not coming imder (a) 25. 6d. 

(c) Soldiers (including reservists called out for duty 
cor training) not coming under (a) — 



(i) Ordinary stoppage 7i. (men) ; 6d. (boys). 

(ii) If suffering from sickness certffied by the 

medical officer attending him to have been 
caused by an offence under the Army Act 
committed by him 

(iii) When supplied with medical comforts in non- 

dieted hospitals or in quarters 

(iv) When treated in non-dieted hospitals estab- 

lished in camps 



Full pay. 



id. 



m. 



(d) Soldiers detained in hospital after discharge or 
t transfer to the army reserve 

(e) Members of Q.A.I.M.N.S., matrons and charge- 
r nurses of military families' hospitals, wives and families 
( (as defined m para. 94) of soldiers borne on the married 
t establishment, schoolmistresses and their children 
I under 14 years of age 



Nil. 



Nil. 



Allow- 
ances 



89 
Rates. 



A 0. 264 



1912 



24 



London 



176 



• As defined in para. 94. 



Hospital Stoppages. 



28 



(/) Wives and families of soldiers not borne on the 
married establishment, female pupil teachers and acting 
pupil teachers, and childi'en ever 14 years of age of 

Class (e) ... ... ... ... ... Qd. 

The above when admitted into hospitals for the safety 

of the troops ... ... ... Nil. 

{g) Civilian subordinates — 

(i) When suffering from contagious or infectious 

disease and admitted to hospital for the 
safety of the troops ... ... ... ... Nil. 

(ii) When incapacitated through personal injuries by 

accident arising out of and in the course of their 
employment, or incapacitated by a disease 
specifically attributable to the nature of their 
work, provided the incapacity is not due to 
their own serious and wilful misconduct, and, 
in cases of injury, that they have not declined 
the scheme of compensation under the Work- 
men's Compensation Act, 1906 : 
* . Those entitled to full pay during the first 

period of incapacity Is. 

Others Nil. 

(iii) Civilian subordinates not coming under (i) and 
(ii), officers' civilian servants and persons 
not connected with the Army, when admitted 
under the exceptional circmnstances detailed 
in the Regulations for the Army Medical 
Service ... 2s. 

(h) Wives and children of civilian subordinates, when 
admitted into hospitals for the safety of the troops ... Nil. 

(i) Soldiers of the British forces in India — 

(i) If in receipt of messing allowance Is. 6d. 

(ii) If not in receipt of messing allowance Is. 2d. 

[j) Soldiers of the Indian forces and their wives and 

families ... ... 2s. 

(k) Soldiers serving under Colonial Goverrmients and 

drawing pay at Colonial rates ... Is. 6d. 

The rates for persons who are not entitled to be treated in 
military hospitals, but are specially admitted under proper 
authority, will be fixed by the Army Council, in cases where the}' 
are not laid down above. 

74. When a soldier, or other person, entitled to treatment in a 
military hospital is, for special reasons, treated at the public cost in 
a civil hospital, as provided in the Regulations for the Army Medical 
Service, the rate of stoppage prescribed by para. 73 will be recovered 
and credited to the public. 



29 



Hospital Stoppages. 



75. In the case of soldiers (including boys) admitted into hospital Injuries 
on account of sickness certified by the medical officer to have been received in 
caused by miUtary service,* one-half of the hospital stoppage may of duty"*^ 
be remitted by the brigade commander. If any injury has been 
received in the actual performance of military duty, under circum- 
stances beyond the soldier's own control, the whole stoppage may 

be remitted by the brigade commander. 

In cases where it is considered that an injury, not sustained in 
the actual performance of military duty, has been received under 
circumstances which warrant a remission of stoppages, the par- 
ticulars should be reported to the War Office, through the G.O.C. 
in-C, for special consideration. 

In every case of remission of hospital stoppages a certificate 
(A.F. 0 1642) of the injury received when in the performance of 
mihtary duty, or of the sickness caused by military service will be 
attached as a voucher to the company pay list. Should there be 
any doubt as to the circumstances under which the siclmess was 
contracted, the medical officer will obtain the counter-signature of 
the man's CO. before signing the certificate. In all cases of serious 
injury the medical officer will note on the form that the brigade 
commander has approved the remission of the stoppage, and that 
the usual court of inquiry (see King's Regulations) has been held. 

76. When a soldier entitled to remission of hospital stoppages Invalided 
on account of injury or sickness is invalided from abroad, a certified ^^^^^j^ 
copy of A.F. 0 1642 sanctioning the remission will be appended to 

his statement of accounts (A.F. 0 1811). 

77. In the case of a soldier admitted into hospital in consequence Diseas* 
of a contagious or infectious disease contracted in the performance ^^j^'^gp^j^ 
of his duty as hospital attendant, one-haLE of the stoppage may be attendant 
remitted by the brigade commander. A certificate from the medical 

officer i/c the hospital that the disease was contracted in the 
performance of duty as hospital attendant, and a copy of the 
order of the brigade commander sanctioning the remission will in 
each case be attached as a voucher to the pay list, A.F. N 1505. 

78. The cost of maintenance of a soldier temporarily detained in Mainten- 
a civil lunatic asylum is chargeable against the pubhc, subject to ^pce in 
the stoppage from the man's pay, as prescribed by para. 73. It asylum.i 
should be charged in the accounts of the unit to which the soldier 



belongs, the stoppage being credited in the same account. 

79. In the case of local troops at stations abroad, hospital ^o^^ 
stoppages, when due, will be at the rate laid down in the local abroad. 



• The expression "sickness caused by military service " is to bo understood 
to include such diseases as those of tropical and subtropical climates, entono 
fever, and also frost-bite and pneumonia, &c, due to exposure under ciroum- 
Btances beyond a soldier's control. 



Prison, &c., Diets. 



30 



Indents and Stoppage Returns. 



ludents for 80. All supplies required for hospital diets, extras, and medical 
eupplies. comforts, will be obtained by the Army Medical Service, by indent 
on A.B. 188, from the supply officer or from the contractor direct, 
as the case may be. ' 

81. A.F. 0 1643 (account of hospital stoppages), showing the 
number of stoppages due from each officer, soldier, &c., will be 
prepared from the admission and discharge book on the termination 
.jof each month (or pay list period, in the case of each soldier), and 
' will be signed by the medical officer in charge. 

These accounts will be remitted to the regimental paymaster* of 
the unit concerned, who will sign the acknowledgment at the foot of 
A.F. 0 1643, and return them to the medical officer in charge on or 
/before the 4th day following the last Friday of each month. The 
hospital stoppage accounts will be armexed as vouchers to the 
pay lists. 

In the cavalry and infantry, the accounts will be made out by 
squadrons or companies. 

For soldiers on the Indian Establishment and their wives and 
children, acknowledgments (amended as necessary) will be signed 
^and returned by the regimental paymaster for the station, who will 
claim the amount due from the India Office on the termination of 
hospital treatment. 

For soldiers serving under Colonial Governments and drawing 
pay at Colonial rates the A.F. 0 1643 will be forwarded direct to 
the War Office. 



Hospital 

stoppages 

account. 

A.O. 309 
1913 



A.O. 3 09 
1913 



Cavalry 
and 

iufantry. 



A.O. 198 



1911 



Scales. 



VIII —RATIONS IN MILITARY DETENTION BARRACKS, 
PRISONS, AND BARRACK DETENTION ROOMS. 

Scale of Diets. 

82. The scales of diets for soldiers at home stations whether 
confined in military detention barracks, prisons, or in barrack 
detention rooms, will be as given in 
statement : — 



j^^.^^^^, — — 

the following tabular 



. r, i.)7 I "In the case of regular officers, other than those forming part of the 
regular establishment of the special reserve and permanent staff of the 
13^3 territorial force, the accounts will be forwarded to the command paymaster. 



Prison, &c., Diets. 



Dietr, 


Bread. 1 


Cheese. 1 


Cocoa. j 


Floui-. ] 


Beef or Mutton. 




Milk. 


Oatmeal. 1 


Peas, Split. 1 


Potatoes. 1 


Salt. i 


Sugar or Molasses.l 


Suet. 1 


"Vegetables. 


"Vinegar. 1 


repper every 1 
100 soup diets. [ 




Scale I. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz.l 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 


oz. 




For soldiers 
undergoing 

punishment, for 
a second time 
within 1"2 months 
from date of 
previous release, 
by sentence of 
courtmartial or 
award of CO. 
for seven days 
and under. 

Sunday and 
"Wednesday ... 

Monday and Fri- 
day ... ... 

Tuesday, Thurs- 
day, and Satur- 
day 


































A.O. 16 


24 
24 






4 








4 

4 




Q 


i . 




s. 

i 








iyi2 


24 














7 














... 


































Scale II. 




































For soldiers 
undergoing 
sentences not ex- 
ceeding 42 daijs, 
other than those 
mentioned under 
Scale I. 
Sunday ... 
Monday and 

Friday 

Tuesday, Thurs- 
day, and Satur- 
day 

Wednesday 


































A.O. 16 


































1912 
110 


18 






H 


8 






4 




16 


i 




t 


1 
2 




... 


Gen. No. 


18 

22 
18 


2 
2 






8 
0 


"4 




4 

4 
4 


2 
4 


16 
8 

16 


i 
i 

X 

2 






i 

3 

i 


i 


1 
1 


2978 


Scale III. 




































For soldiers 


































A.O. 16 


undergoing 
sentences exceed- 
ing 42 days. 

Sunday ... 

Monday, Thurs- 
day, and Friday 

Tuesday and 
Saturday 

Wednesday 


.24 

24 

.24 
.24 




i 

X 

■J 

i 
i 


i 


t 8 


... 


2 


3 




16 


X 
•J 


a 
t 




I 






1912 
110 
Gen. No. 


2 
2 


9 
8 


"4 


2 

2 
2 


3 

3 
3 


2 
4 


16 

16 
16 


i 

i 


i 

I 




i 

3 

i 


,1 


1 
1 


2978 



Prison, &c., Rations. 



32 



Scales for 

stations 

abroad. 



Meals on 
discharge. 



Special 
diet for 
long term. 



Ill-con- 
ducted 
soldiers. 



When meat is used for soup, legs and shins only will be issued. 

83. At stations abroad the scales of diet contained in para. 82 
may also be used when deemed expedient ; but if not, such diet 
only will be used as may have the sanction of the G.O.C., and the 
list so authorized will be reported to the War Office and stated in 
the local regulations of the command. 

84. A breakfast meal may be given when necespary to men on 
the day of their discharge from a military detention barrack, prison, 
or barrack detention room : also a dinner meal to men not dis- 
charged until the afternoon. 

85. In the case of soldiers sentenced to long terms of detention, 
who may be temporarily confined in military detention barracks 
or barrack detention rooms where neither the materials for the 
higher class of diet, nor the means of preparing them, are at hand, 
such additions of bread and oatmeal gruel will be made to the 
diet as may, in the opinion of the medical officer, be necessary. 

86. The scales for ill-conducted and idle soldiers under sentence, 
and the regulations governing them, are detailed in the rules for 
military detention barracks and prisons. 



Mode of obtaining and accounting for Supplies for Military 
Detention Barracks, Prisons, and Barrack Detention Rooms. 

How 87. The supplies for the subsistence of soldiers under sentence 

obtained, obtained by contract or by local purchase by the officer i/c 

supplies. 

Form of 88. For military detention barracks, prisons, and barrack 

nccount. j detention rooms, the account for the pay list period will be rendered 

A-0- 309 I on A.F. F 733. 
1913 



Money Allowance in certain cases. 



Men con- 
fined to 
barracks or 
in guard 
detention 



Allowances 



90 



In billets. 



89. For a soldier who is necessarily rationed by his unit for a 
day or days on which he is not entitled to pay, the ordinary ration 
will be drawn (or an allowance of 6d. if a ration cannot conveniently 
be issued for the day), together with a money allowance which 
must be certified not to exceed the charge for messing and washing 
to which the soldier would be liable if in receipt of pay.^ The allow- 
ance for washing may be charged, for a soldier confined in a barrack 
detention room, for credit to the regimental stoppage fund, out of 
wliich the cost of washing will be paid. 

90. Soldiers in arrest in billets pending trial by court-martial 
will be subsisted at an expense not exceeding lOd. a day. 



33 



Messing Allowance. 



Prisoners in Civil Gaols. 

91. When any soldier is in a civil gaol at home, as a prisoner or Subais- 
waitiug trial, either for a civil or military offence or as a deserter, tence. 
no charge on account of his subsistence will be admissible in army 
accounts. The rate to be paid for prisoners in colonial prisons will 
be such as the G.O.C. may order, such rate being detailed in the ^'^'isonors 
local regulations of the command. Charges should appear in the ^ • 
accounts of the unit to which the soldier belongs. 



Section 3.— MESSING ALLOWANCE. 



92. Messing allowance at the rate of Sd. a day will be issued 
to European soldiers of the regular forces other than Maltese, and 
at the rate of 2d. a day to non-European soldiers of the West 
India Regiment while serving in Bermuda, under the conditions 
and limitations laid down in para. 93. The Malta Artillery may 
draw messing allowance while serving out of Malta provided that 
they are not in receipt of additional pay while under instruction in 
England. 

93. Messing allowance will not be issued when a full field service 
ration of groceries and extras is issued, but subject to this limitation, 
it may be drawn from the date of attestation for every day on which 
a soldier draws pay, except when owing to injuries or sickness not 
due to active service, he is in a military or civil hospital, or under 
medical treatment in a non-dieted hospital, or in quarters and is 
supplied with extras under para. 69 or 70, or when he is in 
receipt of the special allowance of Is. a day issued under the 
Regulations for the Territorial Force. It may be advanced to a 
soldier proceeding on service abroad or on furlough, in the same 
manner as pay or the allowance in lieu of rations. Recruits specially 
enlisted will have the allowance from the age of 18, and boys from 
the date of being struck off the roll of boys, or when placed on the 
recognized establishment of trumpeters, drummers, buglers, pipers, 
or of the band. 



Messing 
al'.owauce. 



When 
issuable. 



A.O. 127 



iyi3 

A.O. 210 



1912 



A.O. (iO 



1914 



(B ior.75) 



0 



Married Establishment. 



34 



Section 4-MARRIED ESTABLISHMENT AND 
ISSUE OF SEPARATION ALLOWANCE 
TO FAMILIES. 



Definition 
of family. 



A.O. 18 



1913 



Married 
establish- 
ment. 



Eegular 
establish- 
ment and 
permanent 
staif. 

A.O. 15-2 



1912 



46 



Gen. No. 



5958 
A.O. 181 



191-2 



Married 
roll. 



I.— MARRIED ESTABLISHMENT. 

94. The advantages granted to married soldiers by the regulations 
are confined to those on the married roll. The family of a married 
soldier is, for the purpose of these regulations, to be understood 
(except when otherwise stated) as including his wife and his 

-jlegitimate children (or step-children) under fourteen years of age. 
•No charge of any description on account of an adopted child is 
admissible against the public. 

95. The married establishment of the army (except of British 
troops serving in India, which is laid down in para. 109, and of the 
local battalions or companies of R.A. and R.E., which is laid down 
in the local regulations of the stations at which the said local 
battaUons or companies are serving) will be formed as provided in 
paras. 96 and 97, subject to variation at the discretion of the 
Army Council. 

96. All N.C.Os. of the regular forces permanently posted to 
the regular establishment of units of the special reserve or to the 
permanent staff of the territorial force, or permanently appointed 
instructors of the Senior Division of the OlEcers Training Corps, 
may be placed on the married establishment — 

(a) If they were on the married roll of their regular unit 
previous to transfer ; or 

(b) If, subsequent to transfer, their marriage is approved — 
In yeomanry and artillery units, the Irish Horse and 

King Edward's Horse, by the general officer i/c 
administration. 
In engineer units by the chief engineer. 
In infantry units by the O.C. district for those per- 
manently posted to the regular establishment of the 
special reserve, and by the officer i/c records for 
others. 

In A.S.C. units by the officer i/c A.S.C. records. 
In medical units by the officer i/c R.A.M.C. records. 
In veterinary units by the officer i/c A.V.C. records. 
Drummers, trumpeters, buglers, pipers and fifers permanently 
posted to units of the special reserve may, if they have actually 
served with the regular forces, also be placed on the married roll, 
subject to their being qualified under the King's Regulations. 

97. Except as provided in paras. 95 and 96 the married roll 
will be formed as follows : — 



35 



Married Eol]. 



Glass. 




15, 16, 17, and 18 

19 except Military Mounted aud 
Foot Police and Military Pro- 
vost Staff Corps 

Military Mounted aud Foot Police 
and Military Provost Staff Corps 

20, Corps — 

Household Cavalry 

Cavalry 

Military Mounted and Foot Police 

each 

Royal Artillery — 
Horse, field, and mountain bat- 
teries 

Garrison companies, detachments 
(except Shoeburyness) and dis- 
trict gstablishment 

Proof party, Eoyal Arsenal 

Depots 

Ammunition columns 

Clerks' section 

School of Gunnery 

Experimental party, Shoeburyness 
Detachment, Shoeburyness 
Bands ... 

Brigade trumpeters, R.H.A. and 
R.F.A., and shoeing and carriage 
smiths, brigade staff, R.H.A. ... 

Cooks, horse and field brigades ... 

Artificers R.F.A. attached to 

heavy batteries R.G.A 

Royal Engineers (except coast bat- 
talion) 

Royal Engineers (coast battalion) ... 
Royal Flying Corps (military wing).. . 

Foot Guards 

Infantry of the Line 

School of Musketry 

West India Regiment 

Army Service Corps — 

Supply branch 

Horse transport branch 

Remount companies and mechani- 
cal transport section 

Royal Army Medical Corps 

Army Ordnance Corps 

Army Pay Corps 

Army Veterinary Corps 

Royal Malta Artillery 

Military Provost Staff Corps 



100 

50* 

100 

7 
4 

•25 
4 



20 
4 

50 
7 
16 
16 
16 
10 



20 
20 

20 

4 
20 
4 

o 
O 

n 

16 
3 

7 

3 

28 
7 
7 
7 
7 
7 

100 



Remarks. 



*Calculated on the establish- 
ment of class 19, of the battery 
or company in the R.A., of the 
regiment exclusive of farrier- 
corporals or farrier-serjeants 
in the cavah-y, of the battalion, 
corps, depot of foot guards, 
rifle depot, aud of the N.O.Os. 
posted for a short tour of duty 
to special reserve units, as the 
case may be, in all other arms. 



f Married men transferred from 
the late district establishment 
to companies and district estab- 
lishment R.G.A., will remain 
supernumerary to the new 
married establishment until 
promoted, discharged, &o. 



I 



{For the rifle dep6t and for men 
posted for a short tour of duty 
to units of the special reserve, 
the percentage will bo 4. 



20 



Military 

Police 
"^1698 ■ 



A.O. 198 
1911 



A.O. 181 
1912 



98. In calculating the percentage of Class 19, when a fraction Class 19 
arises the higher number wiD be allowed. This percentage will 
(b 10575) 0 2 



Married Roll. 



36 



Class 20. 



MaiTied 
roll. 



How ad- 
minititered. 



46 



Artillery 



4943 

Regular 
establish- 
ment and 
perraauent 
stag _ 
married 
rolls. 
A.O. 152 



include the Serjeant master-tailor of a regiment or corps, who will, 
however, be entitled to the first vacancy on the Serjeants' roll that 
may occur. Two of the farrier-corporals or farrier-serjeants in each 
regiment may be borne on the married establishment. 

99. The married roll of Class 20 will be calculated on the estab- 
lishment of each unit, except (1) in the Foot Guards in which the 
roll will be calculated on the establishment of each regiment as a 
whole, inclusive of its depot, and (2) in the regular establishment 
posted to a special reserve unit for a short tour of duty, in which the 
roll will be calculated on the posted establishment. In calculating 
the percentage, fractions will not be taken into account, except that 
in the horse, field, and mountain batteries, garrison companies, and 
depots of R.A., a fraction arising from a number of men greater 
than 12 will be allowed to give an additional man on the married 
roll. 

100. A married roll will be kept in the orderly-room of each unit. 
Annually, on the 1st April, a complete copy of the roll will be 
prepared by the CO. upon A.F. 0 1802, and forwarded to the 
paymaster of the unit. A copy will also be forwarded to the 
officer i/c of barracks at the station. 

The married rolls on A.F. 0 1802 will be annexed to the schedules 
of lodging, fuel and light allowances for the month of April. 

The married rolls of the ammunition columns will be rendered 
annually on the 1st April by the O.C. the depot R.F.A., Woolwich. 

The married roll of the district estabhshment, R.A., will be 
administered at home and abroad by the O.C, R.G.A., except 
that for the artificers and others of Class 20 (excluding bandsmen), 
which will be administered by the officer i/c records, R.G.A., Dover. 

The married roll of the clerk's section, R.A., will be admimstered 
by the officer i/c records, R.G.A., Dover. 

The married rolls of N.C.Os. and men on the establishment of the 
headquarters of brigades R.H.A. and R.F.A. and of Serjeants R.F.A. 
employed on recruiting duties wUl be administered by the officer 
i/c R.H.A. and R.F.A. records. 

101 The married rolls of the regular establishment of the special 
reserve posted for a tour of duty mil be administered by the O.C 
the regular battalion at home to which the men on the rolls would 
be posted at the end of their tour. The married rolls of the per- 
manent staff of the territorial force posted for a tour of duty will 
be administered as follows : — 



1912 



In yeomanry and infantry units by the O.C the regiilar- 
unit at home to which the men on the rolls would bs 
posted at the end of their tour. 

In engineer units by the officer i/o R.E. records. 



37 



Married Roll. 



In a territorial force artillery unit or group by the O.C. 

R.H.A. battery, territorial force. 

R.F.A. brigade, territorial force. 

R.G.A. mountain brigade, territorial force. 

R.G.A. heavy battery (Field Army), territorial force. 

R.G.A. group of coast defence units, territorial force. 
In A.S.C. units by the oiJicer i/c A.S.C. records. 
In medical units by the officer i/c R.A.M.C. records. 

The married rolls of soldiers permanently posted and of those 
posted for a tour of duty will be kept distinct from each other and 
from those of regular units. 

A married man of Class 20 posted for a short tour of duty to an 
artillery depot or to the regular establishment of a special reserve 
unit will be shown separately on the depot or special reserve roll 
as belonging to the service unit, and will not cause a vacancy in 
the service unit roll, nor be absorbed into that of the artillery depot 
or posted estabhshment of the special reserve unit. 

102. The four divisions of the married establishment, viz., war- 
rant officers, staff Serjeants, Serjeants, and the rank and file, will be 
kept entirely distinct, and vacancies in each division will only be 
filled out of the ranks assigned to that division. In the case, 
however, of a married serjeant being reduced to the ranks, his name 
will occupy a place on the Serjeants' list until a vacancy occurs in 
the married roll of the rank and file ; and when a married soldier 
is promoted to the rank of serjeant, he will fill a place on the 
married roll of the rank and file until absorbed into a vacancy on 
the Serjeants' list. Such absorption may, at the discretion of the 
CO. be deferred until the Serjeants waiting, at the time of the 
promotion, to be placed on the roll, have been taken thereon. 

103. Vacancies on the married roll will be filled by the CO., 
subject to the soldiers fulfilling the requirements laid down in the 
King's Regulations. 

104. If a soldier's wife dies, or is certified to be necessarily 
separated from her husband and childi'en by reason of prolonged 
illness or similar disability, the O.C. may allow the soldier either 
(a) to remain on the married roll (in which case he may be per- 
mitted to go on the lodging list if this is thought desirable), or 
(6) to be struck off the married roll and draw separation allowance 
for his children if they are separated from him as well as from the 
mother. In cases of prolonged illness or similar disability, separa- 
tion allowance will only be admissible if the medical officer certifies 
that the period of necessary separation of the wife from her husband 
is likely to exceed four months. A soldier removed from the roll 
for these reasons may, in the event of his wife's recovery from the 
illness or disability, be at once restored thereto, but will, if super- 
nimierary, bo absorbed in the first vacancy. 

(b 10575) 0 3 



4G 

Gen. No. 
5982 



A.O. 18 



Divisions 
to be kept 
separate. 



Vacancies. 



Ohildren 
on death, 
&c. of 
soldier's 
wife. 



46 



Gen. No. 



5977 



Married Roll. 



38 



Widows 
and chil- 
di'eu 
abroa d. 



Detention 
or deser- 
tion. 



Transfers 



Reserve. 
8 



Allow- 
ances 



89 



The issue of separation allowance may also be authorized for the 
children of a soldier removed from the married roll in consequence 
of misconduct on the part of the wife, or of separation from hLs 

I wife by decree of court or by mutual consent, if the children are 
separated from the soldier. (See King's Regulations.) 

105. If a soldier on the married roll dies while serving abroad, 
his wife and children may be retained on the roll until the occur- 
rence of the first opportunity for sending them home. 

Should, however, the widow elect to remain at the station, the 
family will not be retained on the married roll for more than 30 days. 

106. If a married soldier be sentenced to imprisonment or 
detention for a period not exceeding six months, his family will 
continue on the married roll. If he desert, or be sentenced to 
imprisonment or detention for a period exceeding six months, his 
family will be struck off the roll, and the vacancy in the roll 
will date from the time the family leaves the regiment for its 
home. 

107. Except as provided in para. 101, a soldier on the married 
roll who is transferred to a unit on the married roll of which there 
is no vacancy, will be supernumerary to the married establishment 
of his new unit and must be absorbed in that establishment before 
any other soldier can be admitted to it. Until he has been sa 
absorbed the vacancy caused in the married establishment of hia 
former unit will not be filled up, and an explanatory note of any 
temporary excess or of vacancies, caused by such transfers, will be 
made upon the married roll of each unit. 

This regulation will not apply to cases of transfers of men m 
Class 20 from the battalion of a regiment serving abroad to the 
battalion serving at home, as they, when so transferred, will be 
retained on the married roU of the battaUon abroad, and no 
absorption will therefore be necessary. 

108. The following course will be adopted as regards absorbing, 
into the ordinary married establishment married reservists who 
are permitted to rejoin the colours : — r „ • 

(a) In corps where the married establishment is not full owmg 
to there bemg no eligible candidates, the married reservists will 
at once be absorbed into the establishment. 

(6)- In mf antry battalions the married reservists will be absorbed 
into each vacancy on the ordinary establishment, provided that 
there is no eligible candidate in the unit of total longer ser^ce 
than the married man from the reserve. When there is such an 
eligible candidate, the absorption of men from the reserve will take 
place upon the occurrence of every second vacancy if the number 
to be absorbed does not exceed two ; if the number exceeds two. 
after the first two have been absorbed, the remaining number will 
be absorbed into every third vacancy. 

(c) In the regular establishment posted for a short tour of duty 



39 



. Separatio n Allowance. 

to special reserve units, every third vacancy will be filled by married 
men from the reserve, provided that in filling other vacanSes Jhe 
candidates for the married roll are of total longer service Sn the 
reservists. When this is not the case, the mef from L 'eLrt 
will be appointed to each vacancy. 

<^.lrLr.!'l/f^^''^ regulation having been approved by the Establish- 
Secretary of State for India in Council as fixing the married f°>- 
estabhshment of British troops serving in India, any allowances 
on account of such troops issuable in this country will be governed 
by the numbers stated below instead of by those laid down for the 
army generally. 



« 


Percentage, 


Warrant officers ... 

N.O.Os. classes 16-19 ... "] '" 
fOavah-y 

! R.A 

Class 20 ^ H.E., except defence light sections* ... 

1 „ defence light sections 

tin fan try 

Clerks to lieut.-cols. of K.A. ... 


100 
100 
4 
4 
100 
4 
4 
50 



The percentage will be calculated on the establishment of the unit. 

Any soldier who, under this regulation, has been placed on the 
married roll before he has completed the service laid down by the 
King's Regulations as necessary to qualify him for the indulgence, 
will, if he returns to the British estabhshment, be supernumerary 
to the married roll of his unit until he has completed the ordinary 
qualifying service. 

II.— SEPARATION ALLOWANCE. 

110. Separation allowance may be granted at the discretion of 
the Army Council, subject to the conditions laid down in the 
following paras., in aid of the expenses incurred while the following 
classes are unavoidably separated from their families owing to the 
exigencies of the public service : — 

(a) Soldiers upon the married establishment. 

(6) Reservists permitted to rejoin the colours. 

(c) Reservists and special reservists when called out on permanent 
service, and soldiers of the Ten-itorial Force when embodied.f 

It may also be issued for the children of soldiers removed from 
the married estabhshment under the provisions of para. 104. 



To whom 
granted. 



Allow- 
ances 



89 



* Soldiers of B.B. except defence light sections sent to India will all be ' 
allowed to be married provided thoy have not less than fonr years' service. 

t Soldiers of the Territorial Force who. when embodied, are employed on 
military duty and mess at their headquarters but are required, as a temporary 
measure, to sleep at their homes, will be regarded as " unavoidably separated"' 
for separation allowance purposes. 

(B 10.57.5) 0 4 



A.O. 277 



Separation Allowance. 



40 



Allow- 
ances 



89 



To whom 
not 
granted. 



Authority 
for issue. 



Dates from 
which 
issuable 



111. The allowance is also granted when a, soldier is separated 
from his family by admission to hospital and subjected to a hospital 
stoppage (unless he is suffering from an illness occasioned by his 
own misconduct). The allowance will be issuable regimentally marrear 
from the fifth day (inclusive) from the date of the soldier's admission 
to hospital, and will be limited for the entire family to the amount 
of the hospital stoppage. In cases in which the full stoppage is 
remitted, no separation allowance will be issuable, and if the stoppage 
is partly remitted, the allowance will be the unremitted portion of 
the stoppage. If, however, the family was in receipt of the allowance 
prior to the soldier's admission to hospital, it will continue as before. 

112. Separation allowance may also be issued during furlough 
("working furlough" excepted) if the family was previously m 
receipt of it, except where the separation originated by the admission 
of the soldier into hospital. 

113. Separation allowance will not be issued :— , , . 

(a) To schoolmistresses separated from their husbands, but con- 
tinuing to receive pay. . 

(b) To the families of soldiers who are under arrest, in prison, 

under detention, or who desert. , j „ ^ffi„^r«' 

(c) When separation is caused by men being employed as officers 
personal servants or grooms, mess cooks or caterers. ^ 

(d) When soldiers are in receipt of additional pay by reason oi 
being emploved on recruiting duties. .,. , . -+0!. 

(e) To families while dieted in military famihes hospitals. 
/ To families while messed on board ship at the pubhc expense. 
(a) For a soldier's wife removed from the roll. 
ih) For any member of a soldier's family while an mmate of a 

workhouse, asylum, or other rate-supported institution. 

114. Except where reference to higher authority is required in 
the following paras., the power to authorize the issue of the 
allowance under these regulations will rest with the 0.0 

115. When a family is placed upon the married roll after the 
Iseparation has taken place, the allowance will commence only from 
the date on which the family is placed upon the married roU^ 

116 The date from which separation allowance is afmissib^ in 
the various circmnstances which may arise is shown in the following 
table : — 



Circumstances 



I Soldiers serving at home and abroad. 

en When a soldier is compulsorily separated Irom 
' his family on temporary duty or by the exigen- 
cies of the public service for more than four days 
\Ci) Upon change of station, when a soldier s familj 
' cannot accompany him on account of the wile * 
iipproaching continement (but not m couse- 
quonco of Tllncss in the family) if the separa- 
tion exceeds four days. 



Date fi'om which 
issuable. 



The fifth day (inclu- 
sive) from the sol- 
dier's departure. 



41 



Separation Allowance. 



Oircumstauces. — cont. 



(3) When the issue of separatiou allowance for a 
soldier's children is authorized under para. 104. 

(4) Eeservists permitted to rejoin the colours. 

Soldiers proceeding abroad. 

(5) When a soldier is ordered to embark for service 
abroad without his family. 

(G) When the soldier's family cannot embark with 
him on account of illness certified by a medical 
officer. 

(7) When a soldier whose children are on the mar- 
ried roll, under para. 104, elects to leave his 
children at home when proceeding on service 
abroad. 

(8) When a soldier ordered to Ceylon, Hong Kong, 
Jamaica, Singapore or the West Coast of Africa, 
elects to proceed without his family. 

Soldiers serving abroad. 

(0) When a soldier serving abroad is ordered to 
quit his station on or in readiness for active 
service, or to proceed on duty to another com- 
mand. 

(10) When a soldier ordered from a station abroad 
to Ceylon, Hong Kong, Jamaica, Singapore or 
the West Coast of Africa, elects to proceed 
without his family. 

(11) When the family is sent home from abroad on 
the soldier proceeding on active service, &c. 

(12) When the family is invalided home from 
abroad, under proper authority, unaccompanied 
by the soldier. 

(13) When the family is invalided home from 
abroad, under proper authority, accompanied by 
the soldier. 

(14) When the family of a soldier of local troops 
abroad is invalided to its home'from any station 
other than the ordinary headquarters of the 
troojDS in question. 

(1.5) In Ceylon, Egyiit, Hone: Kong, North China 
and Jamaica, when the family is invalided for 
the benefit of its health to hill or other 
sanitary stations in the same command, under 
proper authority, unaccompanied by the soldier. 

(IG) When a soldier of local troops abroad is sent 
to England for a course of instruction. 

On mobilization. 

(17) Wlien the family of a soldier serving with the 
colours is left behind or sent to its home on 
mobilization. 

(18) When reservists or special reservists are called 
out on permanent .service, or when the Terri- 
torial Porce is embodied. 



Date from which 
issuable. 



The date from which 
the soldier is struck 
off the married roll. 

The- date from which 
the men receive 
army pay. 



The date of the 
soldier's departure 
or of the family 
being sent to its 
home if sent before 
embarkation. 



The date of the 
j- soldier's embarka 
tion or departure. 



The date of disem- 
barkation at home. 

The date of the sol- 
dier's re-embarka- 
tion. 

The date of ceasing to 
draw rations. 



The date of 
sepai'ation. 



the 



The date 
soldier's 
tion. 



of the 
embarka- 



The date of th^ 
separation. 

The date from which 
the men receive 
army pay. 



Separation Allowance. 



42 



Limitation 117. No issue will be continued for more than one year without 
of issue. the sanction of the G.O.C., under whom the paying officer is serving. 

Before submission to the G.O.C. the circumstances of each case 
should be fully considered, to ensure that the continuance of the 
allowance would be in accordance with the conditions governing 
its issue. 

Cessation. 118. Separation allowance will cease to be issued : — 

(a) From the date of embarkation of the family or of return of the 
soldier to this country, except when a soldier is admitted on landing 
to a military hospital or to the Discharge Depot when separation 
allowance may continue till his discharge from the hospital or depot. 

(6) From the date when passage would have been provided if 
the family does not proceed from any reason other than certified 
illness. 

(c) When the soldier rejoins his family or vice versa, except as 
provided in para. 112. 

(d) Upon the death of the soldier. Families drawing separation 
allowance, except under para. Ill, at a station abroad will con- 
tinue to receive it whilst retained on 'the married roll under 
para. 105. 

(e) From the date of the family joining the unit to which -the 
reservist is posted on being permitted to rejoin the colours. 

(/) On the date of the soldier 'g discharge from hospital, unless 
the family was in receipt of the allowance prior to the soldier's 
admission. 

119. Issues under sub -para. (3) of para. 116 will cease upon the 
soldier being again placed on the married roll, except when the 
soldier remarries and is re-admitted to the married roll whilst 
serving abroad, when the issues will cease from the date on which 
the children embark to rejoin the soldier, or from the date on which 
passage would have been provided if the children do not proceed 
from any reason other than certified illness. The same rules v^oll 
apply in the case of a soldier who remarries while still on the married 
roll and for whose children separation allowance is being issued under 
sub-para. (7) of para. 116. 



43 



Separation Allowance. 



120. The daily rates of separation allowance are as follows ; 



At home. 



With quar- 
ters or 
lodging 
money. 



Without 
quarters or 
lodging 
money. 



Abroad. 



With 
rations and 
quarters 
or lodging 
money. 



Without 
rations and 

quarters 
or lodging 
money. 





s. 


a. 


.1, 


,7 

a. 


«. 


d. 


K. 


d. 


Wife of a soldier in Olass 15 ... 


u 




I 


o 


0 


4 




o 


W lie 01 a soldier m oiass io ... 


A 




L 


i 


0 




2 


1 


Wife of a soldier in Class 


















17 or 18 


0 


4 


1 


4 


0 


4 


1 


4 


Wife of a soldier in Olass 


















19 or 20 


0 


4 


1 


1 


0 


4 


1 


1 


Bach girl under 16 years or 
boy under 14 years 


















0 


li 


0 


2 


.0 


n 


0 


'2 


Ditto, if motherless 


0 


4' 


0 


4 


0 


4\ 


0 


4 


Ditto, if the allowance is not 


















issuable for the mother — 


















If in charge of the mother, 
and the CO.* is satisfied 


































that the issue -will be in 


















the interest of the 


















children ... 






0 


2 


0 


1^ 


0 


2 


If in charge of any other 


















person approved by the 










0 




0 




CO.* ... 


0 


4 


0 


4 


4 


4 



Bates. 



121. When a soldier is promoted to a rank which entitles his 
family to a higher rate of separation allowance, the higher rate will 
be admissible from the date of the promotion. 

122. Separation allowance will be paid as follows : — 

(a) When the family remains on the strength of the station of 
the unit, payment in arrear will be authorized by the paymaster 
of the unit under the authority of the O.C. 

(&) When the family is left behind upon the soldier proceedmg 
abroad, or on mobihzation, or is sent home, and not accompanied 
by the soldier, or when the family has been placed upon the married 
roll after the soldier has proceeded abroad, the O.C. the unit will 
forward the necessary particulars of the families upon A.F. 0 1794, 
together with a report of the circumstances in which the separation 
occurred, to the pavmaster paying the reservists of the unit, who 
will issue theaUowances without further authority. In cases not 



* Or G.O.C. under whom the paying officer is serving, if questions arise 
as to the continuance of the allowanco, and it is not being paid regimontally. 



Separation Allowance. 



44 



Casualties. 



otherwise provided for, the'payments will be made by the regimental 
paymaster, Woolwich. 

(c) When payment is not made under regimental arrangements as 
in (a), it will be made monthly in advance to the wife in person, 
or by army money orders monthly in advance. If the wife is dead 
or ineligible for the grant, and there are children, the children's 
allowance may be paid to the person who provides for their main- 
tenance. The issue of the allowance Avill be conditional on a 
certificate being obtained quarterly from the person in receipt of 
the allowance that the children are alive and in the recipient's care, 
and, when the wife is a lunatic, that she is still detained in an asylum. 
Advice lists will be made out, and identity certificates (A.F. D 455) 
will be issued by the paymaster paying the reservists of the unit. 
The payments, after the first issue for the broken period, will be 
calculated from the 1st of each month. No recovery will be 
required on account of a casualty occurring in the family during the 
period of the monthly advance. 

(d) When the soldier is expected shortly to return home, or the 
family to embark, the allowance will be issued only for the period 
during which it is anticipated that it m411 be admissible. Any 
advance made to the family before the receipt of the notification of 
the death or return home of a soldier, or of the family's intended 
embarkation, will be finally admitted, except when notification has 
been unduly delayed. 

(e) Charges for separation allowance paid otherwise than by 
means of army money orders will be detailed upon A.F. 0 1762, and 
supported by anv further particulars necessary to explain the pay- 
ments, and by the authority of the G.O.C., when this is required. 

123. Should it be necessary, in any exceptional case, to verify the 
marriage of the soldier, or the birth of any of his children, the cost 
incurred in obtaining marriage or birth certificates will be charged 
against the public in the accounts of the paymaster issuing the 
separation allowance. 

124. Casualties or changes affecting the. issue of separation 
allowance at home to the family of a soldier serving at home or 
abroad will be immediately notified by the man's CO. direct to the 
paymaster who is issuing the allowance. 

In time of war the casualty lists published in the daily press under 
the heading " Casualties notified by the War Office " may be taken 
as sufficient authority pending official confirmation. 



45 



Forage. 



Section 5— FORAGE. 



I.— WHEN GRANTED, 

125. The number of horses for which forage, or an allowance in Number of 
lieu, may ordinarily be drawn by officers when not in receipt of a horses for 
consolidated or yearly rate of pay are shown in the following tables. 

No issues of forage, or the allowance in lieu, will be made, except a^mfssible. 

on repayment, to officers in receipt of a consolidated rate of pay, 

and, unless otherwise shown, the provisions in this section do not 

apply to such officers. On active service, however, no repayment 

will be required. The number of horses admissible for officers in 

the field are laid down in War Establishments. 

126. The consolidated rates of pay of staff officers at home 
iiiclude such provision for forage as is necessary for the performance 
of their mounted duties and the number of horses shown in the 
following paras, against officers drawing such rates of pay are 
inserted for the purpose of assessing travelling expenses under 
Section 12 of these Regulations, and not as an authority for forage. 
Officers of educational and other estabHshments who are graded 
as stafE officers or who draw consolidated rates of pay corresponding 
to those of the staff will, in the absence of definite instructions to 
the contrary, be subject to the same rules as staS officers. Certain 
other officers whose consolidated pay includes a provision for forage 
are also shown. 



127. 



Staff. 



General 

Lieutenant-general 

Major-general 

Brigadier-general 

General staff officer^ 1st grade 

Chief Engineer 

Assistant director of supplies and transport 

Commander of K.G.A 

Commander of coast defences, when a colonel 
Assistant adjutant-gcnoral 

Assistant quartermaster-general 

OfBcer commanding a district at home 

Assistant military secretary ... 
Deputy-assistant adjutant-general 

Deputy-assistant quartermaster-general 

Deputy-assistant director of supplies and transport 

General staff officer, 2nd grade 

Deputy judge-advocate 

Brigade major 

Major or captain instructor in gunnery 

General stati officer, 3rd grade 

Staff-captain 

Aide-do-camp 



Horses 

fi 
4 
4 



3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
•2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 



An officer employed on the staff of a special reserve brigade assembled 
for tminSg will be allowed forage for 2 horses only, unless he is entitled to 
a larger number by virtue of his permanent appointment. 



Forage. 



46 



128. 

Lieutonant-colonol 
Major 

Captain 

Lieutenant 

Adjutant 

Quartermaster 
Kiding-master 



Cavalry. 



Horses. 

3 
2 
2 
2 
2 

1 
I 



129. 



Royal Horse Artillery. 



Lieutenant-colonel 

Major (except as provided in para. 131) 
Captain 

Lieutenant 

Adjutant 

Quartermaster 

Kiding-master to be provided with a troop horse. 



130. Royal Field Artillery, Royal Garrison 

Artillery and Royal Malta Artillery. 

Lieutenant-colonel 

Major of field or mountain artillery (except as pi'ovided 
in para. 131) 

Major commanding a company of E.G.A. (except as pro- 
vided in para. )31) 

Armament major (except as provided in pa.va.. 131) 

Battery officers of field, mountain, or heavy artillery, 
below the rank of major 

Adjutant, or acting adjutant receiving pay as such 

Adjutant, or acting adjutant receiving pay as such, of a 
brigade of R.F.A ' 

Quartermaster,. when authorized to be mounted, to be 
provided with a troop horse. 

Eiding-master to be provided with a troop horse. 

131. Majors of R. A., who bold appointments not involv- 
ing mounted duties, or who are district officers, wiU not 
be entitled to forage. 



132. 



Royal Engineers. 



IIG 



Misc. 
387 



Lieutenant-colonel 

Major 

Major or captain serving with a signal company, or the 

training depSt for field units 
Lieutenant serving with a signal company, or the training 

dep6t for field units 
Officers serving with a field squadron, field troop, signal 

squadron, or signal troop 

Officers serving with a field companj' 

Adjutant, or acting adjutant receiving pay as such 
Kiding-master to be provided with a troop horse. 



2 
1 
2 

1 

2 

1 
1 



47 



Forage 



133. Royal Flying Corps (Military Wing). 

Lieutenaut-colonel commauding military wing 

Adjutant 

Flight commandei- airship and kite squadron 
Officer observer airship and kite squadron... 



134. 



Infantry. 



Lieutenaut-colouel commanding battalion 

Major 

Captain in command of a company of a battalion of foot 
guards or of a line battalion 

Officer in command of machine gun section 

Adjutant, or acting adjutant receiving pay as such 



135. 



Army Service Corps. 



Lieutenant-colonel 

Major 

Adjutant, or acting adjutant receiving pay as such 

All officers below the rank of major attached for corps 

duty to animal transport companies of the A.S.O. 
Eiding-master to be provided with a troop horse. 



136. 



Army Medical Service. 



Surgeon-general 

Colonel 

Lieutenant-colonel or major 

137. Army Ordnance Department. 

Principal ordnance officer 
1st class ordnance offlcerf 

2nd or 3rd class ordnance officerf 

4th class ordnance officer 

138. Army Pay Department. 
Chief paymaster 

139. Army Veterinary Service. 
Veterinary officer of any rank 

140. Staff College. 
Student 

141. School of Gunnery. 
Adjutant 



Horses, 

2 
1 
1 
1 



I 
1 
1 

n 



^ 



63 



Gen. No. 



4553 



53 



G-en No. 



4661 



A. O. 353 

r'""i9i2" 



• During manceuvros only. 

t Unless in receipt of an annual rate of pay. . t +i „ a n r 

1 If acting as C.O.O. of a district or command, or as adjutant of tlie A.U.O. 
5 A public or a private charger, but if the student is from a mounted unit 
he ma/ continue, while at the Stail College, to draw for two private horses 
if previously foraged witli his unit, casualties not being replacea. 



Forage. 



48 



142. School of Military Engineering'. 

No officGi- will bo cntitlod to forage while attending a 
course of. tliroo or more moiitlis at tliis school. 



143. 

Adjutant ... 

144. 

Adjutant ... 

Quartermaster 

Riding-master 



Royal Military Academy. 
Royal Military College. 

Ordnance College. 



145. No officer will ha entitled to forage while a 
student in the advanced class. 



146. 



Miscellaneous. 



Brevet field officer doing duty as field officer in a 

garrison 
Inspector of gymnasia ... 

Officer at a station abroad in command of a mixed body 
of troops of not less than 250 men ... 



Horses. 



Djpart- 
meutal 
officers on 
probation. 

Special 
issues. 



Limited to 

effective 

horses. 

116 
Misc. 

320 
Tempo- 
I'ary 

service at 
drill or 
manoeu- 
vres. 



147. Officers of mounted corps while on probation for appoint- 
ments in army dej)artments may draw forage or forage allowance 
for the regulated number of horses for their regimental rank until 
seconded. 

148. When an officer's duties necessitate issues in excess of those 
laid down in the authorized scale, or when no provision is made for 
exceptional cases by these regulations, the G.O.C. may allow such 
issue as the circumstances of the case may appear to require, his 
authority, in original, being attached as a voucher in support of 
the first charge in the accounts. 

149. Forage, or a mon3y allowance in lieu, claimed under 
paras. 127 to 148, will only be drawn for effective horses, and these 
must be either (a) public horses supplied for military or general 
purposes, or (b) private horses duly authorized to be used for 
mihtary duty. 

150. Officers temporarily employed on mounted duty during 
summer drills or general manoeuvres, or at camps of instruction 
authorized to be held by the Army Council, may draw forage 
for the number of horses fixed for their appointments. The is.sue 
will be limited to the authorized period of the temporary duty, 
with two days before the commencement and two days after tlie 
termination of the duty, and will be granted upon a certificate that 
the horses have been kept. 



49 



; 



Forage— Scale at Home. 



151. In the case of officers absent on leave or on any duty not Issue 
requiring them to be mounted, forage will only be allowed for their j^JJsgufg_ 
horses during the period of such leave when the horses are left at 

the disposal of the general or other O.C. at the station to be 
employed for the public service solely by the officers performing 
the duties of the absent officers. 

152. When officers entitled to public conveyance for their horses J^^^^^ 
are granted leave either before embarkation or on return home on Jeave on 
completion of service abroad, the issue of forage vrill be admissible goiug or 
for their horses for a period not exceeding the regulated leave of return 
absence if the horses are placed at the disposal of the O.C. at the ^'j^""^'^^ 
station where they are kept. , j. An \ 

153. General officers, if not in receipt of a consolidated rate otp^"^^^ 
pay, will, while drawing pay during leave of absence, be allowed'" 
forage for their horses irrespectively of their being left at the 

station. ^ . i • j t imit nf 

154. In the cases referred to in paras. 151 to 153, forage m kind 
or money will in no instance be issued for a greater number of 
horses than would have been issued if the absent officer had been 
present and in the performance of his duties. 

155. Forage, or a money allowance in lieu thereof, may be issued j^^. 

in the following cases after the cessation of an officer's appointment nation of 
up to the date on which his horse is sold or otherwise disposed of, appmnt- 
provided this is done within six weeks : — ' 

(a) An officer removed from a staff appointment on promotion 
to or in the rank of general officer. , v u j 

(b) An officer on the stafi whose appointment is abolished. 

(c) An officer ordered on active service. 

id) An officer entitled to conveyance for his horse under para. 454, 
but prevented from taking his horse with him on embarkation, 
owing to the want of accommodation on board ship. g 
(e) An officer dying while on full pay. , AUow- 

(/) An officer on completion of his course as a student at thei ^^^^^ 

Staff College. 8-* 

II.— SCALE OF ISSUES IN KIND AT HOME. 

t t (r\r Horses, 

156 The following are the standard daily rations of forage lor ^^^^^ 

horses, cobs and mules in the United Kingdom :— mules. 



50 



Standard ration 
in quarters. 



Standard ration in 
camp or in other 

circumstances 
which are in the 
opitiion of the 
G.O.U. equivalent 
to being in camp. 



53 _ 

Gon. No. 

4836 
53 

Gen. No. 
4778 



*IIeavy drauglit horses of heavy 
batteries and all draught horses of 
Shire and Clydesdale type 

All officers' chargers, draught ] 
horses of 15 hands and upwards, I 
and other horses over 15 hands ' 
I- inch V 

Mules of 15 hands and upwards i 
employed on heavy drauglit | 
work ... ... ... ... J 

f Cobs (other than officers' chargers 
and di-aught horses of 15 hands 
and upwards) 

Small mules 



Oats. Hay. Straw, 
lbs. Iks. lbs. 

17 15 10 



10 12 



12 
10 



8 
13 



Oats, 
lbs. 

19 



12 



10 
6 



Hav. 
lb.s. 

15 



12 



12 
12 



Feeds 
included in 
day's issue 

Extra 
issues. 



The ration of forage counts from ihe mid-day feed of the day 
for which it is drawn, and therefore includes the morning feed of the 
next day. 

157. An extra issue of 2 lbs. of oats may be made as follows : — 
(a) For horses of the A.S.C. throughout the year when drawing 

wagons at a trot. 

53 (^) For draught horses of the R.H.A., howitzer batteries, R.F.A., 

R. E., and A.S.C, of 16 hands and over, in addition to the ration 
they are otherwise entitled to, whether in quarters or in camp. 

158. Under special circumstances, issues in excess of the scale 
quantities may be authorized by the Army Council. 

159. The authorized ration is laid down as being sufficient for 
the average requirements of horses. Os.C. mounted units will use 
their discretion, as a mattei of regimental arrangement, in directing 
the distribution of the proportions of the full ration. 

160. The following equivalents are allowed : — 

Compressed forage ... fl8 lbs., equivalent of 10 lbs. oats and 
or I 12 lbs. hay. 

Forage cake ^20 lbs., equivalent of 12 lbs. oats and 

I 12 lbs. hay. 

161. Forage ration returns on A.F. F 776 will be rendered in 
the same manner as laid down in para. 49 for provisions, except 
that forage need not be demanded daily, but only as required. 

!* The classification of such horses will be made by the Director of 
Remounts, War Office, or by other competent authority approved by him. 
f A cob is a horse ranging in height from 14J hands to 15 hands J inch. 



Gen. No. 
4754 

Extra 
issues. 

Pistribu- 
tiou of food 
under 
regimental 
arrange- 
ment. 

Equiva- 
lents. 



Ration 
returns. 
A.O. 210 
1912 



51 



Forage— Abroad. 



Ill .—MONEY ALLOWANCE IN LIEU OF ISSUES IN 
KIND AT HOME. 

162. The money allowance in lieu of forage in the United Money 
•Kingdom will be drawn monthly in arrear on A.F. P 1927, and j^»owances 
\iwill be fixed according to the average contract prices of forage in 

ceach command, with such addition thereto for the expense of retail 
[purchases as the Army Council may think proper. At stations 
where forage is issued from Government stores, or is supplied _ 
iiunder contract the conditions of -which provide for separate issues 
to officers, forage in kind and not the money allowance will be 
drawn by officers for horses in public stables in or near barracks, 
cor for horses in camps. 

The rates issuable in Ueu of forage in the United Kingdom will 
ibe notified in Army Orders as occasion may require. 

163. When mounted corps at home are engaged on recon- On recon- 
inaissance duty, Os.C. may, at their option, draw the money ^jaissance 

allowance in lieu of forage for each horse so engaged ; or, if ^' 
I desired, may draw the forage allowance partly in kind, and the 
irest in money at the contract price. The money charge will be 
; supported by a statement of particulars, the C.Os. receipt, and his 

certificate that the money has been disbursed for the feed of the 
1 horses. 

164. At those home stations where forage is issued from Govern- Option of 
1 ment stores, or is supphed under contract, officers eligible to draw ^J^^t^'^^^g^ 

1 the allowance under para. 162 may, at their option, draw forage in 
Ikind in lieu of the allowance, provided no expense to the public 
lis entailed for hire of transport. 

165. Care will be taken that rations are not drawn from the Obarges^ 
pubhc stores for the days on which horses are in billets, and that ^^^^^l 
the number of horse billets charged for agrees with the number 

: shown on the forage accounts of the unit (A.F. F 718). Horse 
billets will be shown on the forage account of the unit at the station 
. of arrival and not of departure. 



IV.— FORAGE RATIONS AT STATIONS ABROAD. 

166. The quantities of corn and hay, or other articles composing <^^^ 
the ration of forage, will be submitted for the approval of the Army 

abroad. 

Council. When, however, under exceptional circumstances, an issue 
in excess of the scale of rations so authorized, or the issue, as an 
equivalent, of some article not included in the ration, considered 
necessary, the G.O.C. may allow temporarily such additions or 
variations as the circumstances may require, his authority being 
ntfnohed as a voucher to the account. , „ , 

167 A commutation in money will not be substituted for forage Oonunuta- 
in kind except under particular circumstances, nor unless the Uon. 



Forage— Running Account. 



52 



Chair aud 
hammock 
allowances. 



Ceylon and 
Straits 
Settle- 
ments. 



Stations 
where 
certificate 
is unneces- 
sary. 



expediency of such commutation shall have been clearly established 
by some local peculiarity. When a commuted allowance is 
issuable, the rates will be based on the local contract prices for 
the articles in lieu of which the allowance is drawn, and will be 
reported, after approval by the G.O.C., to the War Office. 

168. The scales of issues in kind, when approved by the Army 
Council, and the money allowances in lieu will be laid down in the 
local regulations of the command. 

169. In China, chair allowance will be given to each officer to 
provide himself with a chair, or for carriage hire, but it will be 
reckoned as part of the forage allowance to which an officer may be 
entitled by regulation. The rates for forage and chair allowance 
in China, and for forage or hammock allowance on the West 
Coast of Africa, will be fixed by the Army Council, and will be 
laid down in the local regulations of the command. In special 
cases hammock allowance on the West Coast of Africa may be 
authorized by Os.C. troops at the station for soldiers whose par- 
ticular duties necessitate such issue, a report of the circumstances 
being in each case made to the War Office. 

170. In Ceylon and the Straits Settlements horse allowance at 
rates laid down in the local regulations of the command will be 
given to each officer for providing and maintaining a horse, or for 
carriage hire. This allowance will be in addition to forage allowance 
for the horses an officer may be entitled to keep either by regulation 
or by special authority. 

171. The ordinary certificate as to horses for which forage is 
drawn being effective and the bona fide property of the officers 
concerned, need not be furnished in China and on the West Coast 
of Africa, nor in the case of the horse allowance for one horse drawn 
by all officers in Ceylon and the Straits Settlements. 



v.— MODE OF MAKING AND ACCOUNTING 
FOR ISSUES. 

Eunniug 172. With a view to enabling Os.C. units to feed their 
account. horses according to the season and work they are doing, a running 

account of issuas of forage will be kept by each accounting unit on 

A.F. F 718. 

Demands. 173. Os.C. units will demand all descriptions of forage required 
from the officer i/c sujjplies. Demands, which should be hmited 
to what is necessary to meet current requirements, will be sent in 
daily, or weekly, as may be considered most convenient. If articles 
are required which are not in the contract, notice must be given to 
the officer i/c supplies in sufficient time to admit of the purchase 
being made. 

Only forage for the number of horses authorized by regulations 
(excluding those in respect of which the allowance in lieu is issued). 



■53 



Forage— Running Account. 



■ will be drawn under the running account. Issues on repayment 
will not be made through the running account. 

174. At the end of each month the ofiicer i/c supplies will send to 
the O.C. the unit a statement on A.F. F 719 showing the amount of 

iforage dra-wii during the month, and the contract rate or special 
: prices current during the month. The unit will complete this 
-statement by working out the value of the various articles (fractions 
of a penny being omitted). The form of receipt annexed to A.F. 
.F719 ■will be signed by the O.C. the unit, and returned to the 
•■supply officer, to support the issue in his accounts. 

175. The running account ■vrill show on the credit side the cash 
value, at contract rate, of the forage the unit is entitled to for the 
month, as laid down in paras. 156 and 157, and on the debit side 
the cash value of the forage drawn during the month, as shown by 
A.F. F 719. If different descriptions of straw (oat, wheat, or rye) 
are quoted at varying prices in the contract for any station, the 
value of the standard ration of forage for such station credited in 
the running account should, so far as straw is concerned, be cal- 
culated on the cheapest quotation for that article. 

176. When hired grazing is resorted to for horses other than those 
in remount depots and companies, the cost thereof will be debited 
in the running account, and credit will be taken for not more than 
one-half the value of the standard ration for the horses grazed. 
If, however, horses are grazed on land for which no separate charge 
for grazing is made, such as land which is either hired or leased 
for general purposes (and not specially for grazing) or is the property 
of the War Department, credit will be taken for the value of only 
such portion of the standard ration— in no case exceedmg half 
the value of the standard ration— as the G.O.C. may in each case 
decide to be necessary to provide any forage that may be required 
in addition to the grazing. In cases in which horses are not entirely 
turned out to grass but remain in full work, or are turned out for 
rest in winter but fully fed to maintain their condition, and grazing 
is hired or given as provided above, but to a small extent only as 
a variation of the forage ration, the cost or value of such grazing 
^vill be debited in the ruiming account and credit taken therem tor 
the value of the. standard ration for the horses grazed. 

Remount depots and companies will take credit for the full 
standard forage ration, and against this the estimated value of 
the grazing on the farm will be debited. The value of the grazing 
as estimated will be approved monthly by the director of remounts^ 
War Office, and this approval will be attached to A.i*. if 71» in 

support of the debit therein. ■ 4- tliAxr 

1^. Whenever units temporarily move from their stations they 
will continue to claim on A.F. F 718 at their P*'™^;^"*^*^*^"^ 
the full number of forage rations 'admissible, rendering AJ . i 71^ 
in support from all A.S.C. supply officers who have issued foiage 



Monthly 
Statement. 



Cash value. 



A.O. 15'2 



1912 



Grazing. 
Credit for. 



A.O. 106 

1911. 
A.O. 403 



1913 



Tempo- 
rary 
moves. 



Forage— Running Account. 



54 



Audit of 
Accounts. 



Credit. 



A.O. 106^ 
1911 



A.O. 113 



1912 



Debit 
balance. 



Over- 
drawals to 
be paid for, 



Stock- 
taking. 

A.O. 236 
1912 



to them. The value of the number of rations admissible and of 

the forage actually drawn at each temporary station will be 
calculated at the contract rates current at such station. 

178. The account on A.F. F 718, accompanied by the necessary 
supporting vouchers, will be rendered by the O.C. the unit or the 
head of staff or department, direct to the local auditor for audit (or 
to the War Office where there is no local auditor). Any question 
raised on audit as to the correctness of the number of animals, &c., 
shown in the account should he addressed to the officer rendering 
the form, and not to the officer i/c suppHes. 

179. The running account may be in credit during any month 
in the year, except on a unit leaving the United Kingdom or a 
jcommand abroad and taking its horses with it, when the credit 
will revert to the public, and any stock in hand will be surrendered 
and taken on charge by the supply officer. Cash credits as well 
as stock in hand and debits within the Umit of 2 per cent, (see 
para. .180) will remain with the horses when units move without 
their horses on change of station. In the case of remount depots 
and companies and station veterinary hospitals, the accumulated 
credit of the account will lapse on the 31st March in each year, 

I and the vahie of the stock in hand on 31st March will be shown 
on the debit side in the April account. Under no circumstances 
will an O.C. be permitted to draw the money value of his credit, 
nor will it be available for the purchase of articles other than forage 
and bedding for horses. 

180. No debit balance will be allowed to a greater extent than 
2 per cent, of the cash value of the forage a unit is entitled to for 
any one month, unless such excess is covered by actual stock in 
hand, which should be certified by the CO. on A.F. F 718. No 
debt at all will be allowed in the running account on 31st March, 
or on closing an account, unless it is covered by stock iu hand. 

181. At the end of ea,ch month Os.C. wiU remit to the paymaster, 
the value, at current contract rates, of any overdrawals not covered 
by stock in hand, in excess of the authorized hmit, the receipt of the 
paymaster, showing in what cash account credit for the amount will 
be found, being put up with the forage account (A.F. F 718). 

182. The actual stock of forage in possession of each accounting 
unit at the end of March in each year will be ascertained and sho'mi 
on A.F. F 718 for that month. The stock in hand will also be 
shown on A.F. F 718 for any other month at the end of which the 

I running account is in debt. 



.10 



Paillasse Straw. 



Section 6— PAILLASSE STRAW, 



I.— ISSUES IN GARRISON. 

183. The issues of paillasse straw at home stations and at the Issue ia:— 
sstations abroad at which straw is used for bedding, will be as 
ifollows : — 

(a) To soldiers in barracks 24 lbs. will be issued for each paillasse "Bavraclcs. 
ttogether with its bolster, and will be exchanged every 90 days and 
ffor recruit barracks or receiving rooms the same quantity will be 
idssued per bed, and will be exchanged after it has been in use one 
rmonth. 

(&) For mattresses used in gymnasia and for stuffing targets — Gymnasia, 
as required, the issues to be supported by the certificate of the 
IC.O. 

Straw will be admitted for such number of beds only as corre- 
ssponds to the strength of soldiers shown on the unit fuel return, 
I on which the issues will be accounted for. If any straw is drawn 
for soldiers not included in the strength, or for recruits expected to 
arrive at a regimental depot, an explanation should be given upon 
tthe voucher. 

184. On change of troops fresh straw will be issued to the Issue ou 
rreheving unit if that left by the unit marching out has been 30 '^^^^^^ 

days in use, provided that on due inspection by the CO. or his i°°P®- 
: representative, and the officer i/c barracks, fresh straw be found 
! necessary. Beds are not to be refilled which have been less than 
', 30 days in use. 

185. No separate commuted allowance in lieu of straw will be No separ- 
i issued to troops on the lodging Ust, or quartered at stations where ^^''^^ 

! straw is not supplied in kind, a provision to cover the cost of straw 
I being included in the allowance in lieu of fuel and hght. 

II.— ISSUES IN CAMP. 

186. In camp, straw may be supplied on the following scale : — Scale 

(a) When paillasses and waterproof sheets are not issued.— 12 lbs. 

I for every 5 soldiers (including quarter and rear guards)— to be 
refreshed at the end of 8 days with 36 lbs., and at the end of 
another 8 days with 36 lbs. more ; at the end of 24 days the whole 
to be removed, and a new bedding of 72 lbs. issued, and so on as 
before. 

(b) When paUlasses are issued.— \2 lbs. for each camp paillasse A.O. 363 
; and 1.5 lbs. for each barrack pattern paillasse, together with its 

bolster, which will be exchanged every 32 days. 

Should the issue for the smaller, or camp, paillasse be found 
insufficient, an extra allowance of 3 lbs. may be authorized by the 
camp commandant, if actually necessary. 



1912 



Fuel and Light- 



Benewal, 
when 
expiration 
of cainp i,s 
iipar. 

Limit to 
issun. 

On tho 
marcb. 



An additional issue of 7 lbs. per bed for intermediate lefresh- 
ing may be made, on the certificate of the CO. as to its necessity, 
after the bed has been in use for 16 days. 

(c) When waterproof sheets, but not paillasses are issued. — Xo 
issue of straw will be made unless the circumstances are very 
exceptional. 

(d) For sick in field hospital, where its issue is recommended. — 
To be changed as often as deemed necessary. 

Although this scale allows straw to be refreshed or renewed after 
the expiration of a certain number of daj's, C.Os. will use their 
discretion as to ordering the refreshing or renewing of straw in 
cases where the camp is to break up a few days after the expiration 
of the time allowed for the straw in use. 

Only such quantity of straw as may be absolute^ necessary for 
the comfort of the men will be drawn, as it causes much htter in the 
camp. 

187. When troops are encamped on the line of march for only 
one or two nights, straw will not be issued to them. Should, 
however, the state of the ground render it necessary, in the opinion 
of the senior medical officer, that straw should be issued, a quantity 
not exceeding the ordinary allowance for a first issue may be issued 
by order of the O.C. the troops, on the certificate of the senior 
medical officer that it is required for the health of the troops. 



Section 7— FUEL AND LIGHT. 



I.— GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS. 

188. The scales of fuel and light are calculated upon general 
regiik- annual requirements, and do not, except in the case of personal 
tions for issues, profess to fix rates in exact detail for each service named ; 
issues. savings on one service can therefore be applied to meet deficiencies 
on another. Os.C, medical officers i/c station hospitals, and 
other responsible officers, will see that the fuel and light allowed 
during the year are economicallj' and fairly distributed to meet aU 
services. The running account allowed by para. 225, which only 
demands a settlement for overdrawals once in a year, will admit of 
fuel or light being drawn as actually required, without special 
reference to season or scale. As the account runs for a full twelve 
months before a cash settlement is required, ample opportunity is 
given to recover any overdrawals which may have been at any time 
necessary {see also para. 259). 



557 



Fuel and Light. 



189. Issues of fuel or light will not be made, except on repay- stafr 
nment, to staff or other officers whose yearly or consolidated rates of officers, &c. 
ipay include a provision for fuel and light. On active service, 

; however, no repayment will be required. 

190. Allowances of fuel and light in garrison will be calculated Weekly 
ron a weekly scale, and, except as provided for in paras. 239 and ^'^^ale of 
250, fractional parts of a week should be excluded. issues. 



II.— SCALE OF ISSUES. 

191. The coal mentioned in the scales is of first quality pits, and Quality of 
iiall coal issued in Ireland will be considered first quahty coal. coal. 

192. The following scale of equivalents is authorized : — Scale of 

eqiiiva- 
lents. 

each equal to 1 lb. first quahty 
coal ; 



11 lbs. coal (second quahty pits) - 

1 lb. coke 

2 lbs. fuel wood (camp) 
^ kish of tui'f 



i pint oil = 6 oz. candles (see para. 218) ; 

■ ind for purposes of adjustment only at the end of the fuel year, 
cor on the closing of an account :— 1 lb. kindling wood = 2 lbs. first 
(quahty coal. 

193. When candles are issued under paras 218. to 220 the quality Quality of 

C3p13 cIIg s 

iwill be paraiSn or stearme. , ,■ , ^ -n u 

194. The winter season for allowances of fuel and hght will be Seasons, 
from October to May ; the summer season from June to September, 

Weekly scale of allowances of fuel in garrison at home stations. 





Coal or Coke. 


Class or Service. 


inter. 


mmer. 









195. 



Class 1 ... 
„ 2... 



3 ... 

4, 5 
6, 7, 9 
H ... 
10 
11 

12, 14, IS- 
IS 

17, 18, i9t, m- 



16 



lbs. 

1,600 
1,400 
1,'200 
900 
760 
620 
480 
620 
250 
.360 
120 



lbs. 

800 
700 
600 
450 
360 
280 
240 
240 
120 
240 
80 



*i extra if raarried or 
widower living with 
liis children. 

fWhen allotted a sepa- 
rate room or on mar- 
ried roll. 

JWhcn on married roll, 
or, as regards winter 
fuel, when a man of 
the R.A.M.O. is sta- 
tioned singly in a hos- 
pital. 



Weekly 
scale. 



Fuel and Light. 



58 



Glass or Service 



196. Detacbments- 
1 man 



2 to 3 men 

4 to 10 men 
197. Everj' 10 rank and file 




198. Men's cooking, per man- 

Warren's apparatus . 

Other apparatus 

199. Officers' mess — 



number 
dining n: 
bars 



f 1 to 


7 


980 


8 „ 


15 


l,'2fi0 


i 16 „ 


23 


1,680 


1 a „ 


3!) 


1,960 


UO „ 


60 


2,240 



(See 



Over 60 — each officer .. 
Where no regimental 
mess is established .. 



200. Serjeants' mess — 
f 1 to 20 



Average 
11 umber 
in mess 



aOl. Guards— 
Officers 
N.U.Os. 



Over 20— for 
eacli mem- 
ber... 



320 

530 
210 



120 



480 



14 



800 
400 



160 



280 



700 
910 
1,180 
1,400 
1,620 



120 



380 



14 



280 



Includes fuel for cook- 
ing, laundries, ablu- 
tion rooms, and ar- 
mourers' work. Not 
applicable to barrack 
detention rooms, nor 
to detachments of tlie 
E.A.M.C. in dieted 
hospitals. 

Includes services in 
para. 196, except fuel 
for cooking. — Applic- 
able wliere there are 
more than 10 rank and 
file, and to all detach- 
ments of the K.A.M.C. 
in dieted hospitals. 

(With a minimum of 
280 lbs. Applicable 
also to barrack deten- 
tion rooms. 



When there are no 
dining members, fuel 
may be drawn for the 
ante-room as for an 
accessory. 



Additional. 

For each officer 
exceeding 3. 



not 



When there are no 
dining members, fuel 
may be drawn for the 
mess-room as for an 
accessory. 

Additional. 



Summer fuel for cook- 
ing onlj-. 



59 



Fuel and Light. 



Class or Sovvice. 



Coal 01- Coke. 



a 



202. Accessories — 

Per unit of 1,000 cubic 
feet occupied 



203. Browning arms 



204. Bath-rooms 

205. Hospitals, militaiy 

detention barracks and 



lbs. 

'25 



480 



140 



prisons — 



Warming 



■"Wards, bar- 
rack deten- 
tion rooms, 
and acces- 
scries 



fPor each 
Cooking, I p e r s o n 
■washing -"I cooked foi% 
(ic. including 

Ck.a.m.0. .. 



lbs. 



480 
140 



Applicable also to bar- 
rack detention rooms 
other than those in 
military detention bar- 
racks or prisons. 

For each 50 stand of 
arms bro^wned. 

In recruiting barracks. 



30 



10 



10 



Per imit of 1,000 cubic 
feet occupied. 



■With a minimum 
360 lbs. a week. 



of 



206. At the Royal IMiUtary Academy and the Royal Military Weekly 
CoUege fuel will be issuable at the weekly rates of 320 lbs. ^'^^^^^^^^^ 
in winter, and 160 lbs. in summer, for each cadets room mj^jjO 
actual occupation, the quantities thus available bemg applied 

to meet all services in connection with those estabhshments 
throughout the year, except the personal issues for the educational 
staff and others drawing fuel under their army classifications. JNo 
credit balances will be carried forward from year to year in the 
vouchers for these establishments. .„ , , i ^i, Trinriiine- 

207. Wood or turf for kindling purposes will be drawn at the f^f''''^ 
rate of 1 lb. of wood or ^hr, kish of turf for each 40 lbs of coal or coke, 
excluding the one-fourth extra coal from second quality pits and the 

coal allowed by paras. 209, 257 and 258. 

208. Mounted corps will draw 15 lbs. of coal for each se of shoes E^tja for 
actually made in regimental forges, and 10 lbs. for each set of shoes ^^,,^3. 
actually put on under the system of cold shoemg. This allowance 



Fuel and Light. 



60 



Extra ill 
wooden 
barracks or 
huts. 
District 
ofEcers, Ac. 
A.O. 176 
1914 



AcciiS- 
sorios at 
half rates. 



Acces- 
sories uot 
iu use. 



Acces- 
sories not 
entitled to 
fuel. 
A.O. 152 



1912 



Oil. 



Wick. 



will cover all extra services such as for forges, veterinary purposes, 
repairs, jobbing, &c. Smiths' coal may be used. 

209. For troops in wooden barracks or huts in the winter season 
one-fourth more coal than the rates laid down in the scale will be 
allowed. 

210. When not regimental or honorary dining members of a 
mess, district olficers, R.A., ofHcers of the coast battalion, R.E., 
jquartermasters, riding-masters and directors of music, may draw 
'the allowances of fuel and light prescribed for Class 13 when such 
rates are higher than those for their own classes. They will, 
however, draw allowances at the rates prescribed for their own 
classes whenever issues on the Class 13 scale are made to their 
families during temporary separation. 

211. Churches, chapels, lecture rooms, gymnasia, officers' saddle- 
rooms, and stores for bedding, clothing, arms, accoutrements, and 
other articles subject to deterioration by damp, may draw fuel at 
one-half of the rates laid down for accessories, i.e., the cubical space 
of these buildings, whether taken at the minimum of 5,000 cubic 
feet or not, is to be divided by two in order to arrive at the space on 
which fuel may be drawn. 

212. When schools or other accessories are not in use for any 
period of seven consecutive days, a week's fuel will be deducted for 
each completed seven days that they remain unoccupied. This rule 
will not apply to hospital wards or barrack detention rooms which 
have necessarily to be kept aired and ready for occupation. 

213. The following accessories are not entitled to fuel : — 

Bath rooms (except as provided for in para. 204) ; bilUard rooms ; 
canteens ; grocery shops ; supper-room bars, temperance rooms 
used exclusively for the sale of refreshments ; kitchens, cookhouses, 
and sculleries ; shops used for private purposes, and other self- 
supporting accessories ; stores (except those detailed in para. 211) ; 
other accessories not provided with fitments for warming. 

214. Oil will be issued at the following weekly rates, for each 
authorized lamp, except for lamps in officers' messes., quarters and 
stables : — 

Winter. Summer. 
Small, such as barrack, hanging or standing ... 2 pints. 1 pints. 
Large, and lamps lighted all night ... ... 3 „ l\ „ 

215. Wick will be issued as follows . — 



For R.R. pattern lamps ... 
For all other lamps and lanterns 



One length of 8 inches per two 

gallons of oil. 
4^ inches per gallon of oil. This 
wiU be supphed by the j'^ard 
for cutting up as required. 

^r*issue^of ^'^^^'^ 8^ fittings or lamps of any kind are authorized, the 

light.^"^ ° regulated issue of light may bo made witliout further authority. 



61 



Fuel and Light. 



Free issues will not, however, be made to officers' messes, quarters, xr iq 
and stables (except as provided in para. 243), nor to billiard rooms, — 
canteens, grocery shops, supper-room bars, temperance rooms, ^ q 
used exclusively for the sale of refreshments, shops used for private — 1^12 
purposes, and other self-supporting accessories, nor to civilian 
subordinates (see para. 8.) Billiard tables in soldiers' games' 
rooms, or Serjeants' mess rooms, may be lighted by the general 
lighting authorized for the rooms, but separate billiard table lights 
over and above the authorized lighting will be charged for. 

217. When lampsticks are used for lighting lamps, one gallon of ^^.^^^P" 
colza oil and 1^ oz. of wick may be drawn for each stick per 
aimum. 

218. Mineral oil will be the ordinary illuminant where lamps ars ^^"'''^^ 

issued and gas is not supplied. When candles are necessarily issued ordinary 

in lieu of oil, the quantities will be calculated according to the ilhiminaut. 

equivalent in para. 192, no report on A.F. F 723 being required. Candles in 
^ lieu of oil. 

219. Candles for use in offices may be issued up to a hmit of Candles for 
i lb. per week for each office, during the winter, on the certificate ° 

of the O.C., as to the necessity, and that all candles previously 
drawn have been, or will be, expended in lighting the offices. The 
certificate wiU be retained by the accountant. 

220. Candles for minor services, such as visiting stables, &c.. Candles for 
for which lamps are not authorized, may be issued as actually 
necessary, on the indent of the CO. Such issues will not be 
reported on A.F. F 723 unless the total on any one completed 
voucher exceeds 10 lbs., in which case the full quantity issued will 

be reported on that form. 

221. Coal, coke, wood, candles, oil for lighting, and wick for the Miscel- 
foUowing services will be supplied by the A.S.C. as required on '^a^eous^ 
demands from officers concerned. The latter will account for all 
suppHes received and expended by them on A.F. F 771, and will be 
responsible that the remain is periodically verified. The form will 

be rendered monthly to the local fuel accountant for inclusion in 
his general account : — 

R.E. machinery. R.E. workshops. Fire engines. Electric fight 
apparatus. Magazines and defences. SignaUing service. Light 
houses. A.O. workshops. . A.S.C. laundries, bakeries, abattoirs, &c. 

222. Fuel and light for use on War Department vessels will be W.I>. 
suppfied by the A.S.C. as required on demand from the masters vessels, 
of the vessels, who will account for all receipts and consumption of 

such supplies in A.F. G 1052, the yearly account of stores in their 
charge. The waybill form, A.B. 10, will be used in support of these 
transactions, one copy (receipted) as a voucher to the A.S.C. fuel 
account, and one to the account of the master of the vessel. 



Fuel and Light. 



62 



III.— MODE OF MAKING AND ACCOUNTING FOR 

ISSUES. 



Modo of 
making 
and I 
accounting 
for issues. 



Services 

outside 

barracks. 



Running 
account. 



Balancing 
of running 
account. 



Fuel for 
un- 
authorized 
services. 

Ohaugo of 
station. 



223. Fuel and light will be issued to troops (each accounting 
unit) in bulk as required, the quantities so issued being shown ia 
the running account on A.F. F 727, and in the accounts of +he 
A.S.C. fuel and light accountant. Care will, however, be taken that 
in the case of a unit about to leave the United Kingdom or a 
command abroad, indents for fuel and light are not put forward in 
excess of the unit's actual requirements during the remaining period 
of its stay at the station. 

224. In no case will issues be made from army stores for any 
service outside the precincts of the barracks, but hired buildings 
may be treated as barracks. 

225. A running account of issues of fuel and light will be kept 
by accountants with all corps, hospitals, staff, departments, military 
detention barracks, prisons, &c., which are accounting units. The 
account will be closed — 

. {a) On a unit leaving the United Kingdom or a command 
abroad. 

(6) Yearly, as regards hospitals, military detention barracks, 
prisons, barrack establishments, ordnance storehouses, offices, and 
the like, i.e., fuel accounting units in respect of which soldiers' 
barrack allowances are not affected. 

Upon the account being closed credit balances will lapse, and any 
fuel, &c., remaining in possession, will be surrendered and credited 
to the public, overdrawals being dealt with as at the close of the 
fuel year. 

226. At the close of the fuel year the running account will be 
balanced and a settlement made. Any credit balance shown on 
the voucher of the unit will be carried into the next year's account 
(except as laid down in paras. 206 and 225), but a debit balance 
will be settled either by adjustment in kind, or by payment of the 
money value at existing contract rates. When an adjustment is 
made wholly or partially in kind, a certificate from the officer 
i/c barracks will be appended to the voucher to the effect 
that he has ascertained that the quantities surrendered towards 
the adjustment were actually in possession of the unit, &c., and 
those quantities will then be carried into the next year's account 
as a debit balance, no entry in the accountant's abstract being 
necessary. Any portion of the overdrawals which is not covered 
by the adjustment in kind will be paid for, a reference to the 
account in which credit will be found being given on the voucher. 
Fuel for unauthorized services will not be drawn under the running 
account, but may be obtained through the canteens which have 
power to purchase at contract rates. 

227. When a unit changes stations within the United Kingdom 
or a command abroad, the balances will be transferred to the new 



63 



Fuel and Light. 



A.O. 181 



1912 



station. For this purpose A.P. F 742 will be used, one copy being 
attached to the fuel return. A.F. F 727, at the old station, 
and one sent to the officer i/c barracks at the new station. In 
preparing A.F. F 742, the accountant will be careful to state the 
description of coal in use, whether 1st or 2nd quality, so that the 
necessary conversion, if any, may be made at the new station 
agreeably to the scale of equivalents laid down in para. 192. If 
oil lamps are not authorized for lighting purposes at the new station, 
credit balances of oil and wick will lapse and be surrendered to the 
public. 

228. For purposes of account the fuel year will be divided into'Oonipila- 
three periods of four months each, viz. : — vouchers 

October to January ; 

February to May ; 

June to September ; 
and it will only be the vouchers for the last month of each period 
that will show the strength, accessories, and quantities worked out 
in detail for the period. The vouchers for the other months will 
show merely the balance debit or credit brought forward, the 
quantities actually received during the month, and the balance 
debit or credit at the end of the month. A voucher worked out in 
detail will always be rendered on a unit leaving a station or changing 
barracks at the same station (see para. 225). 

229. The fuel year will end with the last week's issue made in Stock at 
September. The actual stock of fuel, oil, candles, &c., in possession end of fuel 
of each accounting unit will then be ascertained ; and the quantity 

will be inserted on the final voucher for the year, and certified 
by the O.C. the unit. 

230. To enable a voucher, worked out in detail, to be easily Weekly 
prepared at any time, a weekly record of the strength for allowances, record of 
accessories occupied, &c., will be kept, for which purpose a form of IJ^^^^ ^' 
voucher, A.F. F 727, will be found convenient. sories, &o. 

231. Details, garrison guards, will ordinarily be attached to Voucher 
units for fuel and light ; where this arrangement is impracticable for 

the issues to all such details will be included in one voucher which ^g\^g|fig 
will, unless otherwise directed, be prepared by the fuel and light 
accountant and certified, when necessary, by the details concerned. 
Where there is no A.S.C. accountant at a station, fuel, &c., will Stations 
be issued in bulk direct to the troops and accounted for on A.F. ^'g p'^*' 
F727, one voucher only being rendered for the station which 

accountant. 

will be included in the account of the headquarters of the sub- 
district. 

IV.— DETAILS FOR CALCULATING ALLOWANCES. 

232. In calculating cubical space for allowances under paras. Cubical 
202 and 205, the height will in all cases be taken as ten feet. '^P"''^"- 
When the total calculation does not work out at an even 500 feet, 



Fuel and Light. 



61 



Issues, 
officevti' 
messes 



Daily 
strength. 



Soldiers' 
rooms, and 
cookiug. 



School- 
masters 
and school- 
mistresses. 



Summer 

issues, 

unmarried 



Where 
weekly 
allowance 
overlaps 
the next 
season. 
A.O. 78 
1012 
Portion of 
week. 



the fraction will be taken as 500 feet, or half a unit, and fuel charged 
accordingly. The minimum measurement for an accessory or 
hospital ward will be 5,000 cubic feet, except a,y provided for in 
para. 211, but a group of barrack detention rooms will count a.s one 
accessory. 

233. Issues of fuel and light for officers' messes are only 
adiaissible in respect of dining members in receipt of allowances at 
regimental rates, and not for honorary and other members in receipt 
of staff or departmental allowances, or consolidated pay, or for officers 
drawing Class 13 rates under para. 210. 

234. In calculating the average daily strength for each week for 
all classes fractions will be omitted, ± and over being treated a.s 1, 
and less than 4 disregarded. 

235. In calculating the weekly allowance of fuel and light for 
soldiers' rooms, and fuel for soldiers' cooking, the average daily 
strength will be taken, including sick in hospital, soldiers under 
sentence in barrack detention rooms, men absent with or without 
leave, and men detached on escort duty or any temporary command, 
provided such absence does not exceed fourteen days ; but deducting 
detachments, recruiting parties, men in military detention barracks, 
and all N.C.Os. and men receiving a separate allowance of fuel 
and light. Fuel issued for cooking on guard or in barrack detention 
rooms will not be deducted from that drawn in barracks. In 
calculating the issues for barrack rooms, any fraction of 10 on the 
average number in occupation may be taken as 10. 

236. A married schoolmaster. Class 16, living with his wife or 
with his children, and a schoolmistress living with her husband, or 
with her children only, may draw half extra fuel. When a school- 
mistress is married to a soldier and Hves with him, allowances for 
both herself and her husband will not be admissible. 

237. The summer issues of fuel laid down for Classes 15 to 20 
being for cooking, not for warming purposes, will not be drawn by 
unmarried soldiers except when they are stationed singly, or cannot 
be in mess, or, being widowers, are permitted to mess with their 
children in their quarters ; nor will they be issuable to men of the 
R.A.M.C. stationed singly in a hospital. 

238. Should the last date for calculating allowances in the 
winter or summer period so fall that the week's allowances would 
extend into the next season with its different set of rates, the weekly 
quantities will be based upon the rates admissible on such date, 
and charged accordingly' in the accounts. 



239. In the event of an independent fuel accounting unit 
changing stations within a fuel week, proportionate allowances only 
will be charged up to the date of departure. 



65 



Fuel and Light 



240. When coal of second quality pits is used, the fuel vouchers Addition 
will be made out in detail according to the rates fixed in the scales, second 
one-fourth being added to the total to give the gross amount coal''''^ 
admissible. 

v.— COMMUTED ALLOWANCE IN LIEU OF FUfL 
AND LIGHT. 

■ 241 . Commuted allowance in lieu of fuel and light combined will T° "^^o"^ 
be issued : — issued. 

(a) To all officers and soldiers not receiving issues in kind on 
account of their living out of barracks, no public quarters being 
available, or living in Government buildings outside the barracks, 
or in barracks where no store of fuel is kept. 

(b) To married officers who, with the sanction of their CO., have 
elected to live in lodgings when there was sufficient accommodation 
for them in barracks, and who are consequently not entitled to draw 
lodging money, and to unmarried officers attached to units fori A.O. 78 
attendance at courses of instruction in similar circumstances. | 1912. 

.242. The rates, which are as under, do not profess to meet all Rates, 
the varying circumstances of each particular station, but are based 
on the general average price of coal throughout the United Kingdom 
plus the hght allowance laid down in para. 243. 





Daily Bates, 


Class. 




















Winter. 


Summer. 






d. 




d. 




Class 1 


3 


9 


1 


11 


A.O. 341 


Class 2 


3 


3 


1 


8 


1913. 


Class 3 


2 


9 


1 


6 




Classes 4 and 5 ... ... 


2 


1 


1 


0 




Classes 6, 7 and 9 


1 


9 


0 


10 




Class 8 


1 


5 


0 


8 




Class 10 


0 


11 


0 


6 




Class 11 


1 


3 


0 


7 




Classes 12 and 14 


0 


6 


0 


3 




Class 13 


0 


10 


0 


6 




Class 15, or schoolmaster or schoolmistress in 












Class 16, married and living with families ... 


0 


10 


0 


G 




Class In, or schoolmaster or schoolmistress in 


}" 










Class 10, unmarried, or not living with families ... 


7 


0 


4 




Class 16, married or unmarried ... 












Classes 17 and 18, married or unmarried 


}» 




0 


3 




Classes 19 and 20, if on the married roll 


4 




Detachments of from 2 to 3 N.C.Os. and men when 












accommodated in the same room 


0 


7 


0 


4 




Detachments of from 4 to 10 N.C.Os. and men whon 










accommodated in the same room 


0 


11 


0 


G 




One N.C.O. or man compelled to occupy a whole room 


0 


4 


0 


3 




Offices... 


0 


5 









(b 1057r>) 



Fuel and Light. 



6G 



Officers in 
quarters ; 
issues in 
kind and 
allowances 
in lieu of 
light. 
A.O. 341 



1913 
18 



Gen. No. 
293 



Daily 
rates. 



The preceding table is subject to the following rules and 
exceptions : — 

(a) The rates for classes 15 to 20 include the cost of paillasse 
straw. 

(6) The rates for Classes 19 and 20 will not be admissible in 
addition to the rates of lodging money laid down in Section 10 for 
N.C.Os. and men not on the married roll. 

(c) A soldier on the married roll temporarily separated from his 
family through absence on duty will, during such absence, be 
granted the allowances fixed for a single man in addition to those 
issuable at his permanent station. 

(d) In cases of men quartered in isolated forts or batteries, or in 
special cases, exceptional rates may be fixed by the G.O.C., after 
consideration of the circumstances of each case. The rates 
sanctioned will be reported to the War Office. 

243. Light in kind will be issued for quarters recognized as single 
regimental officers' quarters, and also for the stables of such officers, 
in which electric light or gas (including air gas and acetylene) is 
installed. Free issues will not, however, be made in respect of 
other officers' quarters or stables in respect of which a money 
allowance is drawn, or for officers' messes, in which cases money 
allowances in lieu will be drawn which will cover light for all 
services, including hire of meters, and the maintenance of con- 
sumable or breakable fittings, such as : — 

Lamps and shades ; where electric light is used. 

Mantles 

Rods 

Globes 

Chimneys 

The rates approved by the Army Council, which have been fixed 
with due regard to deductions to be made during absence on leave, 
are at present as follows : — 



■where incandescent gas lighting is used. 



Class. 



A.O. '2G4 
1912 



1 

2 

3 

4, 5 
6, 7, 9 
8, 11 
10 
13 

12, 14 

Officers' messes, for each diuing member (see para. 
I 233). The allowance for G officers being tlie 
minimum ... 

*M. in the caxe of mounted officers whose horses are in 
stables not lli/filfd at public expense. 



Daily Kates. 



Winter. 


Summer. 


s. d. 


s. d. 


1 2 


0 7 


1 0 


0 G 


0 10 


0 5 


0 7 


0 V,i 


0 6 


0 3' 


0 5 


0 21 


0 2 


0 \l 


0 3 


0 n 


0 n* 


0 1" 


0 2 


0 1 



67 



Fuel and Light. 



244. Commuted allowances in lieu of fuel and light, or of Hght Claims, 
only, will be claimed on A.F. P 1934. The latter allowance will 
ordinarily be claimed at the end of each fuel period. 

245. The regulations governing issues in kind will, generally, Issues, 
govern issues of commuted allowance. 

VI.— ISSUES OF FUEL AND LIGHT (OR ALLOWANCES 
IN LIEU) DURING ABSENCE. 

246. Fuel and light (or allowances in lieu) for officers and soldiers Issiies 
will not be drawn unless they are effective and present in their d^i'iug 

fL h s f* n p fi 

quarters or lodgings, except in the following cases, in which they 
may be issued : — • 

(a) Officers temporarily absent on duty from their station, when 
such absence does not exceed seven days. 

(6) Married officers and their famihes while entitled to lodging 
money imder paras. 283, 286 (c) 288, or 289 of these Regulations, 
or to quarters under the last sentence of para. 1060 of the King's 
Regulations. 

(c) Soldiers and schoolmistresses on the married roll while 
entitled to quarters or lodging money under paras. 282, 284, or 285, 
provided their families remain in their quarters or lodgings. | 

(d) Famihes of deceased soldiers while allowed quarters or lodging 
money under para. 276. 

VII.— ALLOWANCES UNDER CANVAS. 

247. The weekly allowances under canvas will be : — 

Coal, lOJ- lbs., or ) X r. a- u- i. 

T? I 'a oi lu I loi^ each officer, soldier or servant. 



194 



Scale of 
allowance. 

Fuel wood, 21 lbs. 
Kindhng wood, 1 lb., or turf, kish, for every 20 lbs. of coal 
issued. 

Oil, If pts., or candles, 14 oz., for each lamp or lantern 

authorized. 
Wick, 4^ inches, per gallon of oil. 

248. Coal wiU be issued in camp when fuel wood cannot be pro- issue of 
cured, or, if suitable arrangements can be made, when it is more coal, 
economical to provide coal. 

249. A running account will be allowed to troops under canvas, Eunuiug 
subject to the regulations governing running accounts to troops in account, 
barracks ; the account will, however, be finally closed on the 
breaking up of the camp, in accordance with para. 225. 

250. In the event of a camp breaking up within a fuel week, pro- Breaking 
portionate allowances only will be charged up to date of departure. ^'P °^ camp. 

VIII.— ISSUES AT STATIONS ABROAD. 

251 . Issues of fuel and hght at stations abroad will be made In kind, 
under the same general regulations as at home, but at rates and 

in seasons to be fixed for each command. These rates will be sub- 
mitted for the approval of the Army Council. 

(B 10575) D 2 



Fuel and Light. 



68 



Commuted 252. When issues in kind cannot conveniently be made to 
allowanoe. individual officers, or soldiers, and no fixed commuted scale exists, 
the rates to be paid in lieu of fuel and light will be fixed according 
to the contract rates for the scale of issues in kind, with such 
additions (not exceeding 20 per cent.) to cover retail purchases as 
the G.O.C. shall approve. The rates, when approved by the G.O.C., 
will be reported to the War Office. 
Scales. 253. The scales of issues in kind, when approved by the Army 

Council, and the money allowances in lieu will be laid down in the 
local regulations of the command. 

IX.— ALLOWANCES ON ACTIVE SERVICE. 

Fuel. 254. The daily allowance of fuel for troops on active service will 

be 2 lbs. of wood as the maximum issue for each officer and soldier. 

Light. 255. The daily allowance of light will be one gill of oil (with 

wick) or one candle for each lamp or lantern authorized. 



-DEVIATIONS FROM SCALE. 



Tempo- 
rary extra 
issues. 



Extra 
issues iu 
Ireland. 



Extra 
issues in 
Great 
Britain. 



256. Special temporary issues for specific purposes such as airing 
unoccupied rooms, drying new buildings before occupation, &c., 
may be approved locally, report being made on A.F. F 723 within 
one month after the expiration of each period of the fuel year. One 
form only is to be rendered for each command, on which should be 
shovra, by stations, in detail, the quantities issued to each unit, &c. 
This report will be rendered to the local auditor or (if there is no 
local auditor) to the War Office. 

257 * In Ireland, the G.O.C. may, without reference to the state 
of the running account, approve in unusually cold or damp weather 
the issue of one-fourth extra coal weekly. For barrack rooms and 
accessories the one-fourth extra will in all cases be calculated on 
the winter rates. A copy of the authority will be annexed to the 
fuel account, and a statement showing how the quantities charged 
under the authority are arrived at ^nll be attached to the voucher 
in which the charge appears, no report on A.F. F 723 being 
necessary. 

258. In Great Britain, the G.O.C. may authorize during the 
winter period one-fourth extra coal when troops are quartered in 
damp casemates, or exceptionally exposed positions No report will 
be required on A.F. F 723, but a copy of the authority of the G.O.C. 
will be attached to the fuel account, A.F. F 779, in which the 
charge appears. 

This regulation will not apply to temporary extra issues of fuel 
required during exceptionally severe weather. Such requirements 
should be met under the running account, as directed by para. 188. 



69 



Quarters— Payment for. 



259. In exceptional cases not provided for in these regulations. Power of 
a departure from the rates laid down for fuel and light may, at qq^^jji 
their discretion, be authorized by the Army Council, or in cases G.o!o.'iu' 
where the departure is temporary only, by the G.O.C. In very exceptional 
exceptional circumstances the G.O.C. may also remit charges for °^ses. 
overdrawals, reporting each case to the War Office. 



XI.— SUPPLY OF GAS AND ELECTRIC LIGHT AT HOME I 8^ 
AND ABROAD. | King's 

403 

260. Instructions as to the supply of gas and electric light to Instruc- 
barracks, &c., will be found in the King's Regulations and in thej*^'°°^- 
Regulations for Supply, Transport and Barrack Services. 



Section 8.-PAYMENTS IN RESPECT OF 
QUARTERS AND HIRE OF FURNITURE.* 



I.— QUARTERS. 

261. Where quarters are allotted to an officer in receipt of a officers 

t consoUdated rate of pay which covers quarters, the officer, when no with con- 
( deduction for rent is laid down in the Pay Warrant, will have to pay solidated 
■ such sum, based on the amount included in his consolidated rate of P^^" 
1 pay on account of quarters, as maybe fixed by the Army Council. 

262. A superintending inspector of works, inspector of works, or Inspectors 
•surveyor, who was serving before 20th May, 1908, if in quarters, will °^ works. 
!be subject at home and abroad to the following payments : — 

Superintending inspector of works ... £26 a year. 

Inspector of works 20 ,, 

Surveyor 20 „ 



*After consultation with tlie Board of Inland Revenue, the following regu- 
lations have been approved, with respect to the payment of income tax 
(schedule A) and inhabited house duty on the annual value of quarters 
occupied by officers, rent free, belonging to the Crown : — 

(a) Officers serving on the staff of the army, or otherwise holding appoint- 
ments for a fixed or practically fixed term, are liable to pay income tax 
(schedule A) in respect of the annual value of the quarters in their occupation. 

(6) Officers mentioned in para, (a) to whom houses not situate in barracks 
iare assigned as quarters are also liable to pay inhabited house duty (except 
■ in Ireland), in respect of the annual value of siich houses. 

(c) Regimental and other officers and subordinates (who do not hold 
.appointments for a fixed or practically fixed toDu, being on the footing of 
regimental officers subject to frequent and constant removal) are to be exempt 
: from the payment of income tax (schedule A') and inliabited house duty in 
■respect of the annual value of the quarters in their occupation. 

(B 10575) D 3 



Quarters— Payment for. 



70 



Chaplain 
on pro- 
bation or 
acting. 
Payment 
for hire of 
furniture. 



A O. -m 



Mode of 
recovery. 



263. A chaplain on probation, or an acting army chaplain, 
will, if exceptionally occupying Government quarters, be required 
to pay lOd. a day. 

264. Payment for hire of furniture supplied at the public 
expense will be made at the following daily rates to cover ordinary 

[depreciation and replacement, and interest on the capital outlaj' : — 



Field officers' quarters 

Quartermasters' and riding-masters' quarters 
Other officers' quarters 
Officers' messes — 
Each member, including C.Os., married officers 
and honorary (dining) members 



2d. 
3d. 
Id. 



Id. 



Officers mentioned in (6), below, will not be required to pay for 
hire of mess furniture unless they are doing regimental duty with 
a unit or are dining members of a mess. 

The following officers are entitled to quarters furnished at the 
public expense when such are available : — 

(a) Urmiarried regimental officers other than C.Os., and married 
officers for whom quarters become available. 

(6) Quartermasters, riding-masters, district officers R.A., coast 
battalion officers R.E., commissaries, deputy com- 
missaries and assistant commissaries of ordnance, 
inspectors of ordnance machinery, inspectors of 
mechanical transport, and inspectors of army schools. 

265. Payment will be recovered locally on A.F. 0 1822, which 
will be prepared by the O.C. the unit in the first instance, and 
passed to the officer i/c barracks to certify as to the number of 
messes and quarters occupied. The form will then be returned for 
completion to the O.C, who will forthwith transmit it (together with 
the sum due) to the cashier of the command (or to the pajonaster 
in a command in which no cashier is appointed) ; the latter will 
acknowledge the receipt of the money, and make the necessary 
note on the Army Form before passing it to the command paymaster 
for examination and retention. 

The command paymaster will, in the case of an officer going from 
one station to another, notify to the command or other paymaster 
of the new station, the last day for which the officer has paid hire 
for his mess and quarters. The paymaster at the new station will 
see that any necessary recoveries are eiTected from the following 
day, excluding any period occupied in moves to or from stations 
abroad. 

In any case in which an officer is shown temporarily at another 
station, the command paymaster will communicate the fact to the 
command paymaster of the other command, who will take steps to 
effect the necessary recovery. 



71 



Furniture Allowance. 



266. Officers proceeding on leave beyond 61 days, whose Offlcei-s on 
furnished quarters have been specially retained for them under leave, 
para. 1060, King's Regulations, must pay the furniture rent 
charge. 

In the case of officers proceeding on leave beyond 61 days, whose 
quarters are not retained for them, the furniture rent charge will 
cease from the date on which the quarters become available for 
re-allotment. Married officers serving with their units for whom 
furnished quarters become available, but who are permitted to 
reside out of barracks and do not use the quarters are exempt 
from paying the furniture rent charge. Married officers detached 
from their units for courses of instruction and not accompanied by 
their families must, if furnished quarters are allotted to them at 
their temporary station, pay the prescribed rent charge for such 
quarters. 

267. Instructions as to the procedure to be adopted when Civilian 
quarters are necessarily allotted to civilian subordinates will be ^"g''g°"''"" 
found in the Regulations for Civilian Subordinates directly 
employed and paid by the War Department. 



Section 9.-FURNITURE ALLOWANCE TO 
GENERAL OFFICERS. 



268, An allowance in aid of the expenses of providing furniture To whom 
will be granted to officers holding the following appointments, e'i'a"ted. 
who are not in occupation of furnished quarters belonging to, or 

at the disposal of, the Government : — 

General officers commanding-in-chief ... ^ 
General officer commanding London District j 
General officers commanding divisions of the |- At home. 

Regular Army ... ... ... . . . | 

Major-generals in command of coast defences J 

General or other officers holding distinct commands in the 

colonies. 

269. The allowance, which should be claimed on A.F. P 1934, Rates 
will be at the following daily rates : — 

s. d. 

Classes 1 and 2 ... ... ... ... 9 0 

Class 3 ... ... ... 7 0 

Classes 4 and 5 ... ... ... ... rt 0 



(B 10575) 



Lodging Money. 



Date of 
issue. 



During 
repair of 
liouse. 



270. The i.ssue of furniture allowance will be made from the date 
of the arrival of a general officer at his station, and will cease from 
the date of his being struck off the strength of the command, as 
notified in local general orders. The allowance will not be simul- 
taneously drawn by two officers on account of the sane command, 
but it will be admissible during leave of absence for the regulated 
periods. 

271. In the event of the quarters in respect of which furniture 
allowance is admissible being temporarily vacated during alterations 
by the R.E., or periodical repairs, the furniture allowance may be 
issued in addition to the authorized rate of lodging allowance. 



Section 10. -LODGING MONEY, MESS HIRE 
ALLOWANCE, AND STABLE ALLOWANCE. 



I.— GENERAL REGULATIONS, LODGING MONEY. 

Object. 272. Lodging money is not a personal emolument, but is issued 

to enable officers and soldiers to hire accommodation for them- 
selves at stations where public quarters are not available and it 
is not considered desirable to provide them by public hiring. No 
claun can be entertained when quarters are necessarily allotted of 
less than the regulated extent. 

When not 273. Lodging money, at the rates laid do^vn in para. 278, is not 

issuable, issuable to staff or other officers whose consolidated rates of pay are 
subject to deductions for rent when they are in quarters. Such 
officers when their quarters are vacated for repairs, or when they 
are absent on temporary duty and not under canvas or in receipt 
of the nightlv rates of travelling allowance, will be paid a daily 
allowance to' provide accommodation for themselves at the rate 
laid down in the Pay Warrant for the rent deduction from the 
pay of their grade if in quarters, or at the rate of the actual rent 
deduction if less than the Pay Warrant rate. 

Form of 274. Lodging monev will be drawn monthly m arrear on A.l^. 

voucher, p 1934, on authority for the issue beinrr given by the officer 
i/c barracks, Who will modify his certificate on the form in 

authority. ^^^^ omcers or others duly exempted from the occupation 

of quarters. 



73 



Lodging Money. 



275. The reason for a first issue will be noted on the claim, and Extra 

i a certificate from the Commanding Royal Engineer will be attached certificates, 
when the issue is made because quarters are under repair. The 
authority of the G.O.C. will be attached whenever the regulations 

; require his authority to be obtained. 

276. Usually lodging money will only be drawn while an officer Cessation. 
I or soldier remains on the strength of a station and when no quarter 

1 is available, but when either on change of station or on being ordered 
I into a vacant quarter due notice to surrender cannot be given to 
1 the landlord, the allowance may, under the authority of the G.O.C. 
i be drawn to the end of the term, not exceeding 91 days, for which 
I the lodgings are taken, provided that he is satisfied that no more 
i economical arrangement can be made to insure the officer or soldier 
.against pecuniary loss. A certificate as to the money actually 
and necessarily paid is to be attached to the claim. 

Staff and other officers, whose consohdated rates of pay are 
-subject to deductions for rent when they are in quarters, may be 
--similarly treated, but in their cases the allowances will be at the 
r rates laid down in the Pay Warrant for the rent deductions from 
the pay of their grades when in quarters. 

In case of death the issue of any subsequent lodging allowance 
will be made under the authority of the G.O.C, in accordance with 
ithe above principles. 

277. When the attestation of a recruit for the regular army Recruits, 
or special reserve is unavoidably delayed (see para. 22 (6) and (c)) A.O. 34i 
jand it is necessary to detain him under military supervision pending 1913 
^attestation or rejection, he may be granted lodging money at the 
rregulated rate for a private soldier during such detention, if no 

public quarters are available. 



II.— RATES OF LODGING MONEY. 

278. The daily rates of lodging money, subject to the rules and Daily 
pexceptions stated in para. 279, are given in the following table. 
TThey are considered sufficient for all necessary payments for lodgings 
!and they will not be varied without the authority of the Army 
'Council. Abroad, except in Malta and Egypt, the rates above. A.O. 264 
Class 12 include provision for stabling : — I 1912 



Lodging Money— Rates. 



74 



Gold 
Coast. 


_ _ _ _ O _ O Ol C. O CO CC CO CO O ".C 00 O) 

. ' ' ' ' lo ' n -M -M C'l 'M Ti ri o o o o o o 


Gibraltar 
(temporary- 
rates). 


o cooo^eoc; oorMoc. Cj -<< 

^''''co'oOO-*<>i5CO'*CO'Hr-<0 O O O 


Egypt 
(Cairo and 
Alexandria). 


to;i^:oo5«o cooootso-^ocooco i-h eo '~ 
^ r4 1-H T-( 


Egypt 
(except 
Cairo and 
Alexandria). 


'ecr. t^tOOICO ^0200!00^-*OCOO O ^ CO "-i 
^-^O'OnOO '^tOCO-^-^COCO'COS^^ r-) ^ »-l o 

^ ^ t-H 


Cyprus. 


OCO eft CCOC^CDwOOCi-^'NO O 
^'O''-^*C0 "c0C0^NCNC^'N(NrHTHr-(O O 


Ceylonf 


ooo ooooooooooc o o o 

-^'■ir3>OCO 'cOC<;cO?l!NCN?JS^T-lr-lrH i-( -rl i-H 


Cape of 
Good Hope 
and 
Natal. 


CO-NCCtO <3;OOQ0CCa^C53<IO00C0 CO 
' CO O X ' lO CO CO 5^ 3^ 1^1 O O 


Bermuda. 


O OOOCOCDOOOOOCCCS CO O CO 
C0C0COCO?^i-li-l^ r-l O O 


Home 
Stations. 


■^CCOOO CCtOOOOOOCO CO Otl-^O C5 o C-. 

,-CCCO>-IOOO-*-*-*^eOCOI-lJJI^r-lr-('-l o o o 
°= .-1 ^ rH 


Class. 


iH CO :£> l-- 00 c: o — "N CO en 1^ 00 00 o r-. o 











■ — ' 


















— 












c 








3 














. ~ ^ 










































^ — ' C3 






5 






7-1 3 




, 5 






















O 





00 
CO 

q 



75 



Lodging Money— Rates. 



Transvaal 
and Orange 
Free State. 


oooo ocio-. OOC0O-*O 00 

■ ^ 00 O -M ' ^ 03 02 00 00 in ■*! Ttl CO CO o o 
C-1 t-H rH rH "H 




•.J..^.^.3;cno(M^^)•ooooor^ rH rH . . 

iff ' 'to ' "O ' CO CO CO CO CO 1^ rH >H iH iH rH 


Sierra 
Leone. 


» 

0-.= 0 tOCOCO^OCOCOCOCOrH 05 C3 

. ■ " rJ 00 O ■ -il CO CO <N O O O 
rH 


Non- 
Euro- 
peans. 

0 6 

0 3 


j'sniqi.inBjv; 


•J o o o o uo lo >o lO iQ ;o o o o o 

• ; : it li : S !N CO O lO 1 - r~ to tC . 

:j ■ ■ ■ .o lO ' "10 ■* CO CO (^^ (>> '^' rH ih ih o 


Malta. 


Oottonera and 
Pembroke 
Camp. 


T3 CO C5 COCOOC50COtOCOO O 
^ ' 'C^ '^MS^t'TliHrHrHiHrHiH O 


Maltese 
Corps. 

0 4 

0 4 


British 
Corps. 
0 8 

0 C 


Valetta. 


ooooococoototoeococO'i* <N 


Maltese 
Corps. 

0 4 
0 4 


. ■o--o>n-!*<-*coco<M^5^'^^'^''~' 

"» rH 


rH 


British 
Corps. 
0 10 

0 t; 


Jamaica. 


■B J50-OCOOOOOC)OC2COtC-M 
^ ■cO'H00«)--OtO>n'CC0CO'NC0-M'M 


Euro- 
peans. 
1 8 

1 4 

0 G 
0 4 


Euro-', 
peans. 1 

1 1 A 

1 10 
1 6 

1 0 

0 8 


lloug Kong.f 


Lower 
Level 

and 
Kow- 

loon. 


-J OO0C5OOO0O0O 

; ; iC3 : 'O ; 'O iCJ O "O liO tO 'O lO to »0 «J . . 

^*'^'Hj«"r5lT*^T}<G^'MrHS^rHO O O 


Higher 
Level 

(at the 
Pealc). 


-J lOOOOOOOOOO . , , 

::i^:o;oooooooo: ; . ; ; 

^ ' ' to ' to ' to to 'O tJH -rj* ^1 CO ' 




rH-Nos-'iiiotoi^aooorH-McoTj'in to t>.co 

rHrHrHrHrHr-( iH rHrH rHIMrH-M 



I J3 .rH 

1 



Lodging Money. 



students, 
at Staff 
College. 



Command- 
ing officer. 

A.O. 175 
1914. 



Soldier 
servants. 

School 
mistress. 



Soldiers 
abroad. 



Married 
soldiers i i 
London. 



279. The preceding table is subject to the following rules and 
exceptions : — 

(a) Students at the Staff College will draw lodging money, when 
unprovided with quarters, at the following rates : 

£ 8. d. 

Major 60 0 0 a year. 

Captain 46 lo 0 „ 

Lieutenant ... ... ... ... 43 0 0 

These rates include fuel and light, and can be drawn during the 
authorized vacations, but not during leave at other times. 

(b) The full rate may be drawn by a colonel or lieutenant-colonel 
commanding who retains the use of a room in barracks as a 
dressing-room, if no officer is thereby excluded from quarters. 

I (c) Quartermasters, riding-masters and directors of music, 
'district officers, R.A., and officers of the coast battalion, R.E., 

may draw lodging money at the rate for Class 13 when such rate 

is higher than that of their own class. 

(d) An officer's soldier servant is not entitled to lodging money 
if quarters are available for him, although the officer himself may 
be on the lodging list. 

(e) A schoolmistress married to a soldier on the lodging list can 
only draw lodging money in addition to her husband when they are 
separated by the requirements of the service. In this case lodging 
money may be issued to her at the rate for Class 15. When not so 
separated, the rate may be drawn for the rank of the husband or 
the wife (Class 16), whichever may be the higher. 

A schoolmistress who is unmarried or a widow may draw 
lodging money at the rate for Class 15. 

(/) Abroad, lodging money will only be drawn by soldiers in 
exceptional circumstances, as accommodation for them will usually 
be hired by the public when necessary. 

(g) An allowance of 6d. a day in addition to the ordinary 
lodging allowances may be drawn by all soldiers on the married 
establishment who are on the lodging list in London, in aid of the 
cost of obtaining accommodation for themselves and families. 



Conditions 
of issue 
during 
absence. 
8 



Allow- 
ances 



89 



III. — CONTINUANCE OF LODGING MONEY DURING 

ABSENCE. 

280. Except in cases where special provision is made for the 
issue of lodging money {see sub-section IV) an officer or soldier 
can only be placed on the lodging list in the circumstances stated 
in para. 272, and no claim to lodging money can originate during 
absence. When lodging money is issued under para. 272 to an 
officer or soldier while present and effective at his station, it may 
be continued during absence, as laid down in this sub-section, if 
the lodgings occupied when on duty are necessarily retained and 
paid for. When the period exceeds 31 days a receipt for the rent 



77 



during absence, or a certificate that a lease is held, will be attached 
to the claim. 

1. On Temporary Duty. 

281. Lodging money may be continued as follows, a copy of the Officers 
order directing the temporary duty being attached to the claim :— ^j^j.^,^,,^ 

(ffl) To an officer up to 61 days or to a warrant officer up to 42 officers, 
days. Should the duty entail absence beyond these periods, the 
G.b.C. may, in special cases, give authority for the continued issue 
if warranted by the circumstances. xr p n 

(b) To a N.C.O. or man, not on the married roll, whose absence r'Y;'^' 

is not expected to exceed 30 days. , I ^.0. 238 

^ . , ' 1911 

2. During Sickness. 

282. — Lodging money may be continued to : — Officer, 

(a) An officer, warrant officer, or schoolmistress, absent from ^^"g^"*^, 
duty on account of sickness in lodgings, or in hospital, subject, °gi,oo\.°^ 
when the period exceeds 30 days, to the authority of the G.O.C. 

mistress. 

The days for which the lodging money has thus been drawn will 
be clearly shown on the claim. 

(b) A N.C.O. or man, not on the married roll, sent to hospital. Soldiers 
subject, when the period exceeds 14 days, to the authority of the 
G.O.C. 

3. For Families. 

283. A married quartenn aster, riding-master, director of music, iMarried 
assistant paymaster, inspector of army schools, inspector of [officers, 
mechanical transport, inspector of ordnance machinery, or commis- a.O. ITf) 
sary, deputy commissary, or assistant commissary of ordnance, 1914. 
may continue to receive lodging money up to 91 days when : — 

(a) detached on temporary duty ; 

(b) proceeding on sick leave ; 

(c) transferred for "duty elsewhere while his family cannot 
accompany him owing to illness certified by the medical officer ; 
provided in all cases that the lodgings are necessarily retained for 
and occupied by his family. 

The limit of 91 days may be exceeded under the authority of the 
G.O.C when he is satisfied that the separation between the officer 
and his family cannot be brought to an end at an earHer date. 
Issues under (c) will, as a rule, be limited to 6 months, but in special 
cases of continued illness, in which the G.O.C. considers that a 
further issue should be made, he may submit his recommendations 
to the Army Council. 

284. Lodging money may be continued to enable the family of Soldiers 
a soldier on the married roll to retain their lodgings until pubhc 
quarters are available, when he is : — 

(a) Temporarily detached on duty without his family ; 
(Ij) Sent to hospital ; 



Lodging Money. 



78 



(c) Allowed to proceed on sick furlough on the recommendation 
of the medical officer : 

(d) Undergoing detention or imprisonment, if the sentence does 
not exceed six months. 

Lodging money may also be continued to a soldier's family when 
he is transferred for duty elsewhere while his family caimot accom- 
pany him owing to illness certified by the medical officer, but the 
lodging money will cease when the family are medically fit to travel 
to the soldier's new station, to proceed to their home when the 
soldier has gone abroad, or to be removed temporarily to public 
quarters when available. 



4 During Ordinary or Sick Leave. 



OflScers. 



A.O. 198 
1911 

A.O. 264 
191-2 



A.O. 106 

1911 
A.O. 18 
1913 
Soldiei's. 

53 
Londoa 
194 



285. Lodging money may be continued to : — 

(a) Officers, up to 61 days in each year, deducting any leave taken 
while public quarters were allotted ; or up to 122 or 183 da}'s, in 
the case of staff and other officers* serving abroad, who are granted 
pay for accumulated leave in excess of 61 days under the provisions 
of the Pay Warrant. 

These issues will not however be made for periods exceeding 

114 days without the special sanction of the G.O.C. for the full 
period, who will satisfy himself that it is necessary for the officer 
either to retain his lodgings or to incur expense for storage of 
his baggage, in which latter case the G.O.C. may, as an alternative, 
approve the grant of a suitable daily allowance for periods not 
exceeding the 61, 122 or 183 days as specified above, and not in 
I excess of the regulated rate of lodging money. A certificate as to 
I the money actually and necessarily paid is to be attached to the 
claim in cases of leave exceeding 14 days. 

{b) Soldiers in Classes 15 to 18, and schoolmistresses, for any 
period of special leave with full pay granted on completion of a 
tour of service abroad. 

(c) Soldiers in Classes 15 to 18 (other than schoolmasters), and 
all N.C.Os. and men on the married roll, up to 42 days in each 
year (except as provided in para. 284 (c) ). 

I {d) Soldiers in Classes 19 and 20, not on the married roll, up to 
' 14 days. 

(e) Schoolmasters and schoolmistresses: (1) during authorized 
vacations ; (2) when on leave pending embarkation ; (3) for a period, 
including any leave taken under (1) and (2), not exceeding 42 days 
in the year on retirement. 



A.O. 198 ~ ' 

— 19ll — I • i.e., E,.G. A., R.E., A .S.O., Medical, Veterinary and Departmental officers. 



79 



Lodging Money. 



5. During Active Service 

286. Lodging money may be continued : — 
(a) To an officer holding a-j 
stafY or other appointment for a j j,^^ months or such shorter 
period at a particular 



Period ol 
issue. 



fixed 



station or to an officer holding a )> 
similar appointment transferred | 
to fill the vacancy of an officer j 
on active service. J 



period as liability for rent at his 
permanent station necessarily 
continues. 



(b) To other officers 



(c) For the benefit of a family 
of a quartermaster, riding-master 
assistant paymaster, inspector of 
mechanical transport, inspector 
of ordnance machinery, or com- | 
missary, deputy commissary or | 
assistant commissary of ordnance J 



For 61 days, as in the case of 
< temporary duty provided for in 
L para. 281 (a). 



During the whole period of 
absence including any time the 
► officer may on his return from 
I active service be in a military 
hospital or on leave. 



Oonditious 
of issue. 
8 



Allow- 
auces 

89~" 



IV. — GRANT OF LODGING MONEY IN SPECIAL CASES. 
1. On Promotion during Absence from Station on Duty, Scc. 

287. If, while an officer who is not in receipt of lodging money 
is absent from his station on duty, circumstances arise which would 
entitle him to lodging money if he were present at his station, 
viz. : — 

(a) If the officer is promoted and no quarters of the scale 
applicable to the higher rank are available at the station, or 

(&) If the officer's quarters are handed over to the R.E. for 
repairs ; or 

(c) If the officer's quarters are required for and are re-allotted 
to another officer, 

then lodging money will be admissible, under (a) from the date of 
the promotion, and under (6) and (c) from the date when the quarters 
ceased to be available. 

The usual condition will be required, viz., that the officer durmg 
absence has been put to expense for the rent of the house or of 
lodgings. 

2. For Families. 
288. Lodging money may be issued to the family of an officer pj^jjjjiy 
referred to in para. 283 if invalided home from a station abroad invalided 
unaccompanied by the officer. The issue will commence from from 
the date of disembarkation and may be contmued within the limits abroad. 
on the authority prescribed in para. 283. It will cease from 



Lodging Money. 



80 



Allow- 
ances 



89" 



Promolion 
from ranks. 
A.O. 324 



191-2 



63 



London 



194 



Periods. 



School- 
mistress 
away sick. 



To whom 
granted. 



the date of the sailing of the first vessel on which passage can be 
provided after the family is certified by a medical Officer to be fit 
to return abroad ; or, if the officer has in the meantime returned 
home for duty from the date on which he is rejoined by his family 
If, however, the officer returns home on leave, the lodging money 

17. oLT^ ^""^'^y ^^"^ prescribed i^ 

para. 285 (a) until he joins a station at home for duty 

When the faniily is invahded from India, the issues will be made 
by the India Office ; in other cases by the paymaster paying the 
reservists of the unit. In cases not otherwise provided for by 
the regimental paymaster, Woolwich. ' 

289. When an officer referred to in para. 283 has been promoted 
to commissioned rank while serving abroad and his family is. at 
the date of such promotion, in receipt of separation allowance at 
home, lodging money may be issued to the family in continuation 
of separation allowance. 

The date of the cessation of lodging allowance and the paymaster 
by whom it will be issued will be as provided in para. 288.* 

3. During Leave. 

290 Married soldiers in Class 15, 16, 17, or 18 (except in the 
case of soldiers whose families are in receipt of the higher rate of 
separation allowance under para. 120), or schoohnistresses, ordered 
home from a station abroad and separated from their units may 
draw lodging money while on leave at home, provided they pro- 
ceeded on such leave within one week from the date of disembarka- 
tion, and did not retam public quarters or continue to draw 
lodging money elsewhere, except as provided in para. 276. 

Lodging money may also be drawn by a schoolmistress absent 
from her station and sick in lodgings, but the period wiU be included 
m the total leave for which lodging money is drawn during the year, 
which must not exceed the total of authorized vacations. 

4. During Leave from the West Coast of Africa. 

291. Lodging money (except in the case of married soldiers 
whose families are in receipt of the higher rate of separation 
allowance under para. 120, and of European N.C.Os. of the West 
African regiment in receipt of pay as such) at home rates may be 
issued to European officers and soldiers on leave after the following 
periods of continuous service on the West Coast of Africa (including 
any time spent at Madeira or the Canary Islands on sick leave, or 
on ordinary leave of 61 days in each year) : — 

{a) 12 months or upwards, if, ^ 
in the case of a soldier, be has I t j • 

completed the service abroad f ^°^S'ng money up to 12 months, 
entitling him to a free passage. « -J 



81 



Mess Hire. 



Lodging money up to a period 
equal to that of service on the 
Coast. 



Lodging money up to 6 months, 
renewable at the discretion of 
the Army Council. 



(b) From 6 to 12 months, if 

the leave is granted on the report 

of a medical board or on the ter- 
imination of the service in the 

interests of the pubHc before the r 

completion of 12 months ; or, 

in the case of a soldier, if it is 
I granted on the recommendation ■ 
>of the D.D.M.S. -* 

(c) Less than 6 months, if the 
leave has been granted on the 
report of a medical board in 
consequence of wounds received J> 
in action, or of ilhiess contracted ' 
during actual operations in the 
field on the Coast. 

Lodging allowance will not be admissible except for families of 
officers specified in para. 283, for any portion of the leave spent 
under treatment at the Convalescent Home, Osborne, or m a 
mihtary hospital. 

The allowances will be issued by the command paymaster, Eastern 
Command, Horse Guards, Whitehall, S.W., the first claim being 
supported by a statement of service on the Coast, certified by the 
O.C. at the station, and a copy of the certificate of leave of absence, q^^^^^ 

292. An officer promoted from the ranks may reckon his non- 

promoted 

commissioned and commissioned service towards the period required from the 
bv para. 291 to entitle him to lodging money while on leave. ranks. 

'293. An officer sent from the Coast to Madeira or the Canary Madeira or 
Islands on sick leave in a mild case of cUmatio illness, on the recom- 
mendation of a medical board, for a period not exceeding two 
months, may receive lodging money at the rate for the station on 
the Coast at which he may have been serving. 



5. During Active Service. 

294. Lodging money may be issued up to 91 days to an officer ^^^^^^^^^ 
invahded from active service, whether attached to a mihtary station ° 

or not, provided he is not under treatment in a military hospital, 
that pubUc quarters are not retained, or that lodging money is not 
being drawn under para. 276, 285 (a) or 286 during the same 
period. 

v.— MESS HIRE ALLOWANCE. 

295. At home stations an allowance will be granted, subject to ^f°"g'^g'^g'^"^ 
paras. 297 to 301, to enable officers to hire a mess outside barracks, ° 

or to make their own arrangements for messing — 



Mess Hire. 



82 



_A.O. IM 



Rates. 
A.O. 



288 



1911 



A.O. 288 



1911 



A.O. 198 

1911 
A.O. 324 



1912 

Certifi- 
cates iu 
support. 



Repair of 
mess. 



Hire of 
muss. 



1(a) When their mess is closed for periodical repairs or other 
necessary reason ; or 

(b) When they are sent to a station at which the G.O.C. considers 
it desirable to issue the allowance, having regard to the fact that no 
mess premises equipped in accordance with the Barraclc Schedules 
exist, or could be made available at reasonable expense. 

296. The issue of the allowance, which covers fuel and light, 
will be approved by the G.O.C. at whose discretion daily rates 
may be fixed not exceeding the following : — 

Under para. 
295 (a). 

For a regiment of cavalry or batta- 
lion of infantry 

For half ditto, or a depot having an 
establishment of more than six 
officers, or a special reserve regular 
establishment other than that of 
an extra reserve infantry battalion 

For a battery or company, R.A., 
for a depot having an establish- 
ment of less than seven officers, 
or for a detachment with more 
than one officer ... 

For a detachment ^vith only one 
officer 



305. 



15«. 



85. 



Under para. 
295 (6). 

155. 



Is. 6d. 



is. 6d. 



4s. Gd. 



2s. 6d. 



In cases in which there is only one officer at a station, the allowance 
will not be admissible if the officer is in receipt of lodging allowance, 
nor will it be admissible under para. 295 (a) in respect of officers 
who are honorary members of a mess unless they are also dining 
members. 

297. Charges for the allowances will be supported by : — 
(a) The authority of the G.O.C. for the issue. 

{b) A certificate from the officer i/c barracks that mess accom- 
modation was not available, and that a temporary mess room was 
not provided. 

(c) A certificate from the CO. that the officers concerned were 
not, and that it was not practicable for them to be, members of anj- 
other mihtary mess during the period for which the claim is made. 

298. In all cases in which repairs or alterations to mess premises 
are recommended, the G.O.C. will take into consideration the 
expenses which would arise from the issue of the allowances as 
well as the actual cost of the works proposed, and he will satisfy' 
himself, before authorizing the issue under para. 295 (a), that it 
is not possible to make any local arrangement to obviate the 
necessity for the expenditure. 

299. Before authorizing the issue under para. 295 (h), the G.O.C. 
will satisfy himself that no reappropriation is advisable to provide 



83 



Stable Allowance. 



the accommodation required, and tliat the case is not one which 
would be best met by tlie direct hire of premises by the public. 

300. At stations abroad, mess accommodation will be hired when Stalions 
necessary, but except as provided in para. 301 the G.O.C. may, =^ 
subject to the conditions in paras. 295 to 299, specially authorize 

the issue of an allowance in lieu at rates not exceeding those in 

para. 296. i v * 

301. Mess hire allowance is not admissible for staff, medical, ^^ot^^^.^^j^ 
veterinary, and departmental officers, nor for quartermasters and j^^, ^^^^^ 
riding-masters ; nor is it admissible for district officers of R.A., or medical, 
officers of the coast battalion R.E., except that the allowance under veterinary, 
para. 295 (b) will be granted when one of these officers is sent on "^^^^^^^^ 
temporary duty to a station where no special quarters and no ogjcers, &c. 
officers' mess are available. The allowance is not admissible 
concurrently with field allowance. 



VI. — STABLE ALLOWANCE. 

302. Stable allowance is issuable, except as stated in paras. 303 object and 
to 305, to enable officers to hire accommodation when public rates at 
stabUng cannot be provided for the number of horses for which "^o^^e- 
forage is authorized. The allowance is not issuable when officers 

are under canvas, as their horses should then be picketed. At 
home the rates are 9d. a day for one horse, and 6d. a day for each 
additional horse. u + • 

303. Abroad, except in Malta and Egypt, a provision for stablmg 

is included in the rates of lodging money for officers of Class 11 and ^}°°^^ 
upwards. Stable allowance will only be issuable when pubHc abroad, 
stabhng cannot be allotted (a) to officers in quarters, and (b) to ^.o. 78_ 
officers on the lodging list whose lodging money does not include a 1912 " 
provision for stabling. For such officers, rates not exceeding those 
at home will be sanctioned by the G.O.C, and included in the 
local regulations of the command. 

304. Subject to para. 303 the following officers when on the ^^^^^^^3*°,^ 
lodging list may, at their option, draw stable allowance : — jo^^g. 

(a) Staff, medical, veterinary, and departmental officers. ing list. 

(b) Officers of R.E. and A.S.C. not doing duty with units of their 
corps. 

(c) Other officers who cannot procure lodgings within f mile of 
the nearest available public stabling. The issue in this case to be 
subject to the approval of the G.O.C, which should be annexed 
to the first claim. 

305. Stable allowance may be continued in the following oir- Ooutinn- 
cumstances when officers necessarily retain and pay for stabling anco^ 

at their permanent stations. absence 

(a) During absence on mounted duty, subject to the regulations ' 
as to lodging money laid down in paras. 280, 281, and 286. 



8i 



{b) During absence on leave or on unmounted duty, whih foraee 
IS admissible. ^ 

(c) During temporary vacancies in the regulated nujnber of 
horses, but not for more than 31 days. 

(d) Upon change of station, or upon public stabling becoming 
available, subject to the regulations a,s to lodging money laid down 
in para. 276. 



Section ll.-COLONIAL ALLOWANCE. 



-RATES. 



Bates. 



306. Special money allowances, at the rates specified below, will 
be drawn in aid of the expenses of the following commands :— 



Bebmtjda 



Oeylon ... 



8 



Allow- 
ances 

"9r 



Class or Bank. 



[■Officer 
.. ■! Warrant officer 
Schoolmistress 



fl, 2, 3, 4 

5, 7, 8 

9, 10 
< U, 1-2 
I 13, 14 
I 15 

L Schoolmistress 



Daily Rates. 



.<t. ci. 

■> t; 

0 1(1 

0 10 



Es. 
0 
() 

4 
2 

1 

0 
0 



cents 
3.') 
00 
50 
50 
15 
38 
38 









Dols. 


cents. 






f 1, 2, 3, 4 


t> 


20 






5, 7, 8 


1 


40 


jcHINA ... 




9, 10 


1 


.25 




11, 1'2 


1 


00 






13, 14 


0 


80 






15 


0 


27 






^Schoolmistress 


0 


27 










(/. 




r Officer 

... •! Warrant officer 

1 Schoolmistress 


3 


0 


Egypt ... 


1 


0 




1 


0 



85 



Colonial Allowance. 



Glass or Eank. 



Daily Rates. 



Mauiutics 



rG.O.C. tke troops 
I Each other officer 
Warrant officer 
SoUooImistress 



•1 



Rs. 

8 
1 
0 
0 



coiits. 
75 
05 
55 
55 



r Officer 

South Afhica...-! Warrant officer 
(^Schoolmistress 



d. 
0 
0 
0 



Straits 

Settlements 



■ G.O.C. the troops 

5, 7, 8 

9, 10 

- 11, 12 

13, 14 

15 

^Schoolmistress 



Dols. cents. 



5 
:! 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0 



00 
10 
20 
50 
80 
27 
27 



West Coast of 
Afhica 



f Each officer (if not iu receipt of double 
pay) 

Each warrant officer (if not in receipt of 
double pay)... 

Each European serjeant (if not in receipt 
of double pay or of pay as a N.C.O. of 
the W. African Regt.), or army school- 
mistress 

Each European corporal or private (if 
not in receipt of double pay) 



d. 
0 



II— GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS. 

307. Colonial allowance may be drawn by officers absent from J^^^J^"^^^ 
their stations on ordinary leave for 61 days in a year, or on extended 
biennial or triennial leave, provided that they remain in, and 
continue on the strength of, the command, and that they have not 

been reHeved of duty on the arrival of their successors. 

The same principles (with the necessary modification for the , 
difEerent periods of leave to which they are entitled) will apply 
to warrant officers and others mentioned in para. 306. 

308. Officers of the Bermuda, Ceylon, China, Mauritius, South 
Africa, Straits Settlements or West Coast of Africa commands, 
who proceed to plaoes in neighbouring countries, will, if so pro- 
ceeding on sick leave, on rdinary leave for 61 days in a year, or 
on extended biennial or triennial leave, receive during such absence 
the allowances fixed by this section. The allowances will not, 



1913 

Leave at 
station 
abroad. 
8 

Allow- 
ances. 
91 

A.O. 351 



1911 



Travelling. 8g 



A.O. 2G4 



I'J]; 



however, be admissible in respect of broken periods of leave spent 
by officers m neighbouring countries when en rouie to, or returning 
from, any country in Eurojxs. 
uDoriutv t;olonial allowance may be drawn by officers on passage 

f y- upon duty from one part to another of the same command, provided 
they were previously on the strength of the command. 



Section 12.-TRA YELLING. 



Persons 
not com- 
ing under 
these regu- 
lations. 



Other 
regula- 
tions. 



General 
rule as to 
grant of 
travelling 
expenses. 

When not 
entitled. 



I.— GENERAI.. REGULATIONS. 

310. These regulations do not apply to : — 

(a) MiHtary colonial governors, except as specified in para. 2 (/). 

(b) Civilians (other than those classified in para. 1) employed 
in the Army Ordnance Factories (including Building Works), the 
Inspection and Research Departments, the Royal Aircraft Factory, 
the Royal Army Clothing Department, the A.O.D., the Machinery 
Department, military detention barracks or prisons at home stations, 
on War Department vessels, or the Ordnance College, for whom 
special regulations are issued. 

311. Further regulations in regard to travelling will be found in 
the King's Regulations. 

II.— TRAVELLING EXPENSES. 
1. Ofiicers. 

312. Officers will, as a general rule, be reimbursed the actual 
and necessary expense of their conveyance when proceeding on 
dutj under military orders. The principal cases in which travelling 
expenses are not admissible are specified in paras. 313 to 338, 
subject to the exceptions therein laid down. 

313. Officers are not (subject to the exceptions hereinafter pro- 
vided) entitled to travelling expenses : — 

(a) When granted a special allowance which covers travelling. 

(b) On first appointment — as regards expenses within the United 
Kingdom, except as provided in para. 314. 

I (c) When rejoining from half-pay, or retii-ed pay. The travellmg 
'expenses of officers on half-pay called up for duty as A.D.C. to the 

King, and of officers rejoining for temporary emplojanent from 

half-pay or retired pay will, however, be allowed from and to their 

residences within the United Kingdom. 

(d) When proceeding for investiture with the insignia of any 

decoration or order. 



^_ Travelling- 



(e) When taking up an appointment under a colonial government. 
(?) When proceeding to London to report themselves personally 
to the War Office on return from a station abroad, except when 
thev do so under orders from headquarters. 

la) When returning home between two meetmgs of a committee 
if the expense is greater than the cost of remaining in the vicinity. 

Ih) On exchange or transfer (unless carried out solely on public 
grounds, or under para. 434 {d) beyond the expense which would 
have been incurred if no exchange or transfer had taken place. 

(i) On resignation, retirement, or when placed on half-pay, as 
regards expenses in the United Kingdom. . , , ■ , 

(,•) On vacating a stafE, departmental, or extra-regimentaJ appoint- 
ment before its term is completed, unless on account of lU-health 
^some other cause beyond the control of the officer concerned or 
miless the Army Council specially admits the expenses. 

(k) On removal from the service for misconduct, or dismissal by 
the sentence of a court-martial, except when specially granted a 
passage under the provisions of para. 437. 

(I) In connection with examinations in foreign languages (except 

^%Tr OfficersTo'i^inron first appointment from a colony will On first 
be aSowedTh'ir^ travelling expensed outside the United Kingdom^ appc^nt- 
Officers joining their new stations on promotion from the ranks 
vviU be allowed travelling expenses at home and abroad for them- 

selves and families. j i 

315 Except where specially provided, officers are not entitled to Leave. 
traveUing expenses incurred by them in consequence of leave, 
but wheS ordered from one station to another and the journey is 
broken by a period of leave, or when ordered to a new station 
when on leave" officers will be reimbursed the regulated travelhng ^liL^ 
expenses incurred by them, subsequent to the order, m joimng the 
new station, provided that : — 

(a) The charge does not exceed the cost of a direct journey 
between the old and new stations, or between the port of dis- 
embarkation in the United Kingdom on arrival home_ on Jeave 
and the port of re-embarkation or other station in tne Umted 
Kingdom to which they may be ordered on duty ; and 

(b) In the case of sea passage, no charge is made in respect of a 
journey which could have been performed in a puonc vessel if the 
officers" had not been on leave. 

316. Officers arriving in the United Kingdom, from a station 
abroad and not posted to a unit, will, on subsequent posting be 
entitled to travelling expenses between the port of disembarkation 

and their new station. ,. i SiihRfitnfp 

317 Travelling expenses for a substitute tor an officer on leave Substitute 
may only be allowed in the case of a medical, vetennary or depart- 
mental officer, or in the case of ordinary reliefs of regunental officers 



A.O. 18 



1913 



Travel] ing. 



88 



on detachment. The authority of the G.O.C. wiU be necessary 
and wiJI only be given when, owing to the exigencies of the ser^-ice^ 
the officer would not otherwise be able to obtain a due proportion 
of leave. Travelling allowances will not be sanctioned except 
for the actual journeys to and fro (see para. 409 (/). 
Sick leave. 318. Officers granted passages under para. 434 (/) or 435 (a) 
rv4^^ (''^ ^'^^ allowed their actual and necessary travelline 

Or^ice^ expenses to the port of embarkation, whether in the command 
»b4 abroad or in the United Kingdom. They will be allowed travelling 
expenses to and from their home^ within the country in which 
their homes are situated if they are invalided in consequence of 
active service in the field, but not if they are invalided for other 



causes. 



fnc^oT" . ^" "^^'^^ °° ^^^^e is ordered to perform any 

duty while ^^^7 from his ordinary station, the actual travelling expenses 
ou leave, incurred in the performance of such duty, not exceeding the cost 

which would have been incurred had the officer not been on leave 

will be admitted. 

Officers on 320. An officer who arrives home on leave from abroad or who 
aWd " granted leave at home on arrival from abroad before joining a 
new station, if ordered to proceed to a home station on duty with 
a draft, will be reimbursed the extra expense (if any) incurred by 
him in subsequently proceeding to his place of residence, over and 
above the amount which would have been incurred by him had he 
proceeded direct from the port of his disembarkation to his place of 
residence. Similarly an officer returning to a station abroad off 
leave and ordered to a home station to do duty with a draft to the 
port of embarkation will be reimbursed the extra expense (if any) 
incurred in proceeding to the draft over and above the cost of a 
direct journey from his residence to the port. 
Ouquittiug 321. An officer who has come home after quitting an appoint- 
Sunder ^^""^ * Colonial or Foreign Government will, if ordered to 

Colonial ^ ^ome station be allowed the expenses of a direct journey 

Govern- from the port of disembarkation to such station ; if ordered to join 
ment. at a station abroad, the expenses of a direct journey from the port 

of disembarkation to that of re-embarkation. 
To appear 322. Officers will be allowed travelling expenses consequent upon 
midicaf ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ordered, while on leave or half-pay, or mth a view to 
board.'^ S^^^^ °^ renewal of a pension for wounds, to appear before a 

medical board. Such expenses will, ho-wever, be limited to the 
necessary cost of journeys within the United Kingdom or the 
colony in which the officer's home is situated, 
"^frif ^ffi^^^s admitted to any mihtary hospital. King Edward 

miUtary ^^^ '^ Hospital, London, or the Convalescent Home, Osborne, 
hospital, '^^11 be allowed travelling expenses on admission and discharge, 
&c as under : — 



gg Travelling. 

// stationed at home. 

(a) From their station to the hospital, and thence to any other 
hospital to which thev may be transferred. 

(b) From their home as in (a), but not exceeding the cost from 
their station. 

If stationed abroad. 

(c) From their station to the hospital in the command abroad, 
and thence to any other hospital in that command to which they 
may be transferred. • i j. 

{d) From the port of disembarkation at home to the hospital at 
home and thence to any other hospital to which they may be 
tr £L nsf G IT G d • 

(e) From their home as in {d), but not exceeding the cost from 
the port of disembarkation. 

On discharge from hospital similar expenses to those on admission 
will be allowed. 

324. Officers on attachment to the staff preparatory to exami- officers 
nation for the Staff College, or to other arms than their own to attached 
prepare for field officers' examinations (except when proceeding by for in- 
special leave for this purpose from one station abroad to another struotion. 
abroad) will be allowed their travelling expenses. In such cases 

the expenses will be allowed once only, unless an officer's attendance 
is interrupted by illness. 

325. On attending the following army examinations travelling Attendiug 
expenses (but not passages) are granted to officers :— army_ 

(a) For admission to the Staff College or Ordnance College if ^P^'^i^'^" 
they qualify, (b) For army promotion — for the examinations at 
which they qualify. 

326. Except as specially provided in the Regulations relatmg lAtteudiug 
to the study of foreign languages, officers attending the examination l^^^^^jj^'^- 
in foreign languages will be allowed travellmg expenses (but not {^"gjg^ 
passages) if they qualify as interpreters. When an officer on the languages, 
list of interpreters attends for re-qualification, in accordance with 8 
those Regulations, travelling expenses will be granted ; but if he Allow- 
fails to pass, he can only go up for further re-qualification at his — .. 
own expense. 

327. Officers will be allowed travelling expenses when ordered to Courses of 
attend courses of instruction authorized by the King's Regulations 

or specially approved. Travelling expenses to the same description 
of course will be allowed once only, except in cases in which 
attendance at senior officers', refresher, or machine gun courses is 
authorized by the King's Regulations, or when attendance at a 
course has been interrupted by the officer's illness. 

328. Travelling expenses incurred on stafi tours, regimental ^^^5?^^"^^^; 
tours, and other instructional exercises, are only allowed when 
specially authorized by the G.O.C. 



Travelling. 



90 



Distribu- 
tion of 
prizes for 
good shoot- 
ing to T.F- 

Limit of 
tnivelling 
expenses 
duriug 
certain 
courses of 
instruc- 
tion. 

Military 
attaches. 



14 



Staff 



2959 



Officiating 
clergymen 



Officers 
drawing 
forage. 



329. With the exception of G.Os.C. and commanders of coast 
defences officers of the regular army on full pay (other than such 
olhcors holding commands or appointments in the territorial force) 
will not bo entitled to claim the cost of journeys to distribute 
prizes for good shooting, &c., to units of the territorial force 

^J^^^ officers undergoing instruction at the School of 
Mihtary Engineering, the Staff College, or Ordnance College and 
their instructors, are ordered upon reconnaissance duty, upon visits 
to manufacturing departments, or on tours at home or abroad 
m connection with their course of instruction, they will receive 
such sums in aid of their travelling expenses as the Army Council 
may determine. 

331. The following special commuted allowances will be given 
to officers appointed military attaches to cover all the expenses of 
taking up or of quitting their posts, unless in the latter case the 
officer relinquishes the appointment for his own convenience :— 



Paris 


£ 


The Hague 


1 50 


Berlin 


75 


Rome ... 


Vienna 


1 80 


Sofia ... 


... 85 


St. Petersburg 




Washington ... 


... 


Constantinople 


Egypt 




Buenos Ayres 


125 


Tokio 




Pekin 


... "'} 



These allowances will be claimed through the command paymaster. 
Eastern Command, 2, Duke Street, London, W.C. 

332. Officiating clergymen are not, as a general rule, entitled 
to any travelhng expenses in addition to the remuneration granted 
to them from army funds. 

When, however, an officiating clergyman will have to travel an 
unusually long distance in order to minister to the troops, the 
G.O.C. may authorize the grant of the actual and necessary cost of 
the journeys which he considers should be performed by such 
clergyman at the public expense. 

333. Officers in receipt of forage (even for a less number of horses 
than they are entitled to), or of consolidated pay which includes a 
provision for forage (see para. 126) when proceeding on temporary 
duty, will, as a general rule, only be allowed travelling expenses :— 

(a) At a home station, if the distance exceeds 10 miles from such 
station, or the return journey cannot be performed the same day. 



Travelling. 



(6) At a station abroad, if the journey is one upon which mounted 
officers are not ordinarily required to ride their horses. 

In cases other than the above, the G.O.C. may, however, sanction 
the grant of travelling expenses, if satisfied that it was not desirable 
that the officer should ride his horse. ^ ^ ^. „f „^ 

334 Officers entitled to forage, but exempted by the authority of Ofhcers 
the G.O.C. from keeping a horse, will be allowed subject to a hmi entitled to 
of 105. 6d. a day, the actual cost of horse hire for occasional ^^.^^j^^^ 
mounted duty, provided they are not m receipt of a consolidated {o,age. 
rate of pay which includes a provision for forage. For horses hired 
in London the maximum daily charge admissible is £1 Is. Oct. 
Such officers will also be allowed travelling expenses, including ^^^^^^ 
motor mileage allowance at the rates laid down in para. 390 
for journeys upon which mounted officers are required to ride their 
own horses. The total sum claimed for horse hire and traveUmg 
expenses must not, however, exceed the amount which wou d have 
been admissible, had a horse been kept, as forage stable, and 
groom's allowance for the month or quarter for which the claim is 
preferred. When forage could have been supplied m kind {see 
para. 162) its contract cost only (instead of the regulated money 
aUowance) must be taken into account. A certificate showmg that 
forage was not drawn AviU, in aU cases, be given, and claims for 
horse hire will be supported by receipted bills. 

335. Officers not entitled by rank or appointment to forage, or officers 
not in receipt of a consoUdated rate of pay which includes a pro^ P^^^^™^ 
vision for forage (see para 126), but having to perform mountea 

duties. 

duties, may, if thev do not receive an allowance under para 336 
be reimbursed, under the sanction of the G.O.C, the actual and 
necessary cost of hiring a horse. 

Claims will be supported by receipted bills. , u „ 

336. Officers of the regular forces whether on full pay or half- Horse 
pay, temporarily employed under War Office authority for a period allo^^a,>ce. 
of not less than 7 or more than 30 days on duty which requires them 

to be mounted, may, if they are not already in receipt of forage 
allowance, or not in receipt of a consolidated rate of pay whicH 
includes a provision for forage (see para. 126), receive an allowance 
of 12s M. a day for each horse allowed and actually kept, il it is 
certified that they cannot be supplied with pubhc horses, bov 
horses hired in London the maximum daily charge admissible 
is 15s. Od. This allowance is granted to enable officers to provide 
themselves with horses, servants, saddlery, &c., and to cover all 
expenses of conveyance in connection therewith up to the time ot 
joining for duty and after its termination, and will be given not 
only for the actual and authorized period of the duty, but also for 
one day before the commencement of the duty, and for one day 
after its conclusion. Forage, or the allowance in heu, will be 
admissible in addition to the allowance under this para. Mounted 



Travelling. 



92 



A.O. U 

1912 

OfScers 
receiviug 
horse or 
chair 

allowance. 
Convey- 
ance of 
families. 
A.O. 175 
1914 



14 



Ordnance 



864 



Convey- 
ance of 
servants — 
permanent 
duty at 
home. 



Officers not m receipt of consolidated rates of pay temporarilv 
employed as above, and required to provide more horses than the 
number for wh.ch they are entitled to forage in their exttil 
appointments, may, if it is certified that the/cannot be eupp li2 
with public horses, receive this allowance for each additional hCe 
authorized and actually kept. "'wonai norse 

When the period of employment is less than 7 days, the ca-ses will 
he governed by para. 335, and when the period is more than 
^ days special instructions as to the allowance to be drawn will 
be issued from the War Office. 

337. No expense on account of horses hired to replace officera' 
chargers while incapacitated will be admitted as a charge acrainst 
army funds. ^ o^oIuibi- 

338. In China, Ceylon, and the Straits Settlements, officers in 
receipt of horse or chair allowance will not be entitled to carriage 
or cab hire, or to horse hire, for occasional dutv. or for journevs 
within 10 miles of their stations, except under para. 334 

I 339. When quartermasters, riding-masters, directors' of music 
assistant paymasters, district officers of R.A., commissaries, deputv- 
commissaries, or assistant commissaries of ordnance, inspectors of 
ordnance machinery, inspectors of mechanical transport, inspectors 
of army schools, superintending inspectors and inspectors of works 
surveyors and officers of the coast battalion R.E., are entitled to 
conveyance at the public expense, they AviU, unless proceeding on 
temporary duty, be also entitled to conveyance for their families * 
{6ee para. 443 as to passages.) 

The families referred to above will also be allowed travelling 
expenses between the officer's station and the port of embarkation 
(or disembarkation) at the station abroad, and between the port 
ot embarkation (or disembarkation) and their selected place of 
residence in the United Kingdom, when granted passages under 
paras. 443 (d), (e) and (/). * 

340. Officers proceeding on other than temporary duty at home 
will be entitled to conveyance for the following numbers of male 
servants : — 



Eank of Officer. 



A.O. 294 
1912 



Classes 1 to 4 

Classjis b to 10 if entitled to forage "| 
Classes 11 and 12 if taking a horse / 
Other officers 



The number must in no case exceed that allowed for the officer's 
rank at his old station,and the servants must accompany the officei-s 

"I * As delined iu paras. 443 and 446 




;-93 Travelling. 

lainless otherwise authorized by the G.O.C. Under no circumstances 
jare land expenses granted for female servants, even when passages 
are allowed under paras. 449 and 450. 

341. Officers serving at a station abroad will be allowed con- Abroad, 
veyance within the command for the number of servants for whom 
rrations or servant allowance is drawn, subject to the conditions 

in para. 340. 

342. On temporary duty, an officer of Classes 1 to 4, or a staff Couvey- 
officer travelling with the Inspector - General of the Forces, will 

ibe allowed travelling expenses for one personal servant, but not for temporary 
lan orderly in addition. Other officers will only be allowed travelling duty, 
expenses for a personal servant when : — 

(o) Proceeding for a course of instruction (but passage for a 
I personal servant is not allowed in the case of officers serving at a 
-^station abroad, unless the sea journey is between ports within the 
command) ; 

{b) Attending at foreign manoeuvres ; 

(c) Proceeding with troops by land or coastwise ; 

(d) In encampments or quarters ; 

(e) Specially authorized by the G.O.C. 

343. Officers necessarily taking a horse upon temporary duty 

vwill be allowed conveyance for a groom. grooms. 

344. On permanent change of station, conveyance by land or Oonvey- 
coastwise will be allowed for the number of horses for which forage ance of 
is drawn. In cases where there is a difference between the number worses, 
of horses at the old and new stations, the lower number only is 

,^ allowed to be conveyed at the pubhc expense. On temporary duty 
officers may take the number actually required (within the above 
: number) ; or they may hire a horse &t the temporary station if no 
Lgreater expense than that for conveyance is incurred (see para. 454 
as to passages). 

345. Officers travelling with their horses will, at home stations, Livery ex- 
' be reimbursed necessary livery expenses, less forage allowance if penses. 
drawn or if covered by a consolidated rate of pay (which should 

(be stated on the claim). At stations abroad, forage allowance and 
■stable hire will be admitted as a travelling charge if forage or public 
■stabhng cannot be supplied. 

346. Officers, not drawing forage or forage allowance, nor in When 

: receipt of a consolidated rate of pay covermg forage, who regularly using own 
i perform on their own cycles, journeys on the public service for 
'which travelling expenses are admissible, may be granted an 

allowance, to be fixed according to circumstances by the G.O.C, 
Ibut not exceeding lO.s. a month. 

For occasional journeys for which travelling expenses are! 

admissible, an allowance of ^d. a mile may be given. At training! 



Travelling. 



94 



A.O. 37 



1913 



General 
rule for 
grant of 
expenses. 
Soldiers, 
mileage 
rate for. 

A.O. 37 



1913 
A.O. 240 



1913 
27 



Gen. No. 



1808 



Furlough. 



14 



Artillery 



2382 



Soldier 
rejoining 
after 
acquittal. 

School- 
mistresses. 



Husband 
of. 



cir- 



and manoeuvres the rate of allowance may, in exceptional circum- 
stances, be increased to Id. a mile at the discretion of the-G.O.C, 
but in such cases not more than 16«. a month will be issuable. 

2. Soldiers. 

347. Soldiers travelling under route will receive the allowances 
and advantages specified in the Army Act. Under other 
cumstances their regulated expenses will be allowed. 

348. Soldiers authorized to use their own cycles for journeys on 
the .public service for which travelling expenses are admissible 
may be granted the allowance or mileage rate sanctioned under 
para. 346. At training and manoeuvres the rate of allowance 
may, in exceptional circumstances, be increased to Id. a mile at the 
discretion of the general officer commanding, but in such cases not 
more than 15s. a month will be issuable. 

In the case of recruiters Id. a mile may be granted up to 7s. 6d. 
(the equivalent of 90 miles) and ^d. a mile thereafter in each 
calendar month without limit. 

The charges when not made under route will be vouched by a 
copy of the order for the journey, and, in the case of recruiters, by 
the recruiting officer's certificate that the visits were necessary, 
and by the approval of the O.C. the recruiting area. 

349. Soldiers are not entitled to travelling expenses in connection 
with furlough, except — 

(a) When they would be granted to officers under para. 315. 

(b) When recalled from furlough for any temporary duty, in 
which case travelling expenses to and from the place of duty will 
be allowed if the soldier reverts to furlough. 

(c) On proceeding to their homes in anticipation of discharge 
or transfer to the reserve. If, however, the discharge or transfer 
is not carried out and the soldier rejoins his unit, travelling expenses 
of both journeys must be paid by him and particulars of the warrant 
or warrants issued must be reported to the War Office. 

(d) When special furloughs are granted to warrant officers and 
N.C.Os. after six years' service abroad. In such cases passages and 
travelling expenses outside the United Kingdom may be given, but 
not travelling expenses witliin the United Kingdom. 

350. The travelling expenses of a soldier rejoining his corps after 
acquittal by a civil court on a criminal charge, will be defrayed out 
of army funds. 

3. Schoolmistresses. 

351. Schoolmistresses invalided from abroad, or retiring from 
the service, are allowed travelling expenses to their homes ; also 
from their homes to the stations to which they are subsequently 
ordered when resuming duty after sick leave. 

352. If the husband of a schoolmistress has served in the regular 
forces and held a rank not below that of Serjeant on discharge, he 



.95 



Travelling. 



may be granted conveyance when accompanying his wife on her 
I change of station. 

4. Civilian Subordinates. 

353. TravelHng expenses, except as specified in paras. 354 and 
1456, are not allowed to civiHan subordinates on joining or quitting 

the service. 

the service. 

354. Barrack wardens and paid pensioner recruiters will be On 
aUowed, on appointment, traveUing expenses for themselves and ^PPoi"*" 

t their families, and the cost of conveyance of a maximum quantity 
(of 8 cwt. of baggage. 

Expenses on quitting the service will be allowed, except in cases 
of resignation within 2 years of appointment or when dismissed. 

355. Civihan subordinates proceeding on duty will be reim- General 
bursed their actual and necessary traveUing expenses, but, at i'^''^- 

■stations abroad, pubHc conveyance will be provided whenever 
I practicable. 

356. Civihan subordinates performing journeys on the public C3'cle 

: service on their own cycles may be granted the allowance or mileage allowance. 
I rate sanctioned under para. 346. 

357. When subordinates are moved for permanent duty con- Families, 
•veyance will be allowed for their families within the regulated 

Ihmits of age (para. 368). 

5. Recruiting. 

358. Recruits will only be allowed such travelling expenses Recruits' 

: as are incurred after attestation (except as provided in paras. 359 expenses. 
: and 360). A.O. 288 



1911. 

359. The travelling expenses of recruits, prior to attestation, Prior to 
will be allowed from the place where they were served with the attestation. 
: statutory notice papers to the depot or other place of attestation, 
provided : — 

(a) That there was no magistrate or military officer available 
for attestations at the place where the notice was served, and that 
the recruit was finally approved, or, if rejected, that it be certified 
by the approving field officer that the cause of rejection was such 
as could not have been detected by the recruiting officer or recruiter 
who conducted the primary examination. In the latter case, the 
expenses of the return journey will also be allowed. A.O. 288 

(b) That the recruit was a serving special reservist whose nHT 
attestation for the regular army was deferred until he had been 
medically examined. If found medically unfit, expenses will also 
be allowed for the return journey. 

Charges for traveUing expenses under this para, will be vouched 
as provided on A.F. 0 1770. 



Travelling. 



9C 



Rejected 
I'ecruits. 



Od 

dischargp. 



Excepkon. 360. The cost of conveyance incurred by recruits who apply for 
enHstraent through the Post Office, or by bovs sent direct from 
training ships, in proceeding to the place of "enlistment, will be 
admitted if they are finally attested. 

361. Recruits rejected on final examination will be given travel- 
ling expenses back to the place of attestation. 

6. Soldiers Discharg'ed or Transferred to the Army 

Reserve. 

362. On discharge from army service, soldiers are granted 
conveyance under the conditions stated below, and subject to the 
restrictions specified in para. 364 : — 

(a) A soldier enlisted in the United Kingdom is entitled to 
conveyance to his selected place of residence therein. 

(6) A soldier enlisted abroad (except for a Colonial corps) is 
entitled to conveyance to his place of enlistment, unless he was 
enlisted at a station where his father was then serving, in which 
case he will only be entitled to conveyance to his selected place of 
residence within the United Kingdom. 

(c) A soldier discharged at a station abroad, with a view to his 
residing within the command, will be granted conveyance under 
such conditions as may be laid down in local regulations. 

(dt) A soldier enlisted abroad for the West India Regiment is 
entitled to conveyance to his place of enlistment, or to the place at 
which he was served with the notice paper. 

(e) A soldier enlisted abroad for a Colonial Corps (other than 
the West India Regiment) will be granted conveyance under such 
conditions as may be laid down in the local regulations of the 
command in which he is serving. 

(/) A soldier enlisted in the United Kingdom who is discharged 
from the army at a station abroad on conviction by the civil power 
may, on termination of his imprisonment, be provided by the 
Colonial Government with a passage by packet to the United 
Kingdom. The cost of the passage, and any land expenses of the 
man incurred in proceeding to the port of embarkation in the 
colony, will be allowed as a charge against army funds. Such 
charges will be settled at the War Office, and claims will be 
supported by a manuscript copy, certified by the prison governor, 
of the particulars of the man's discharge as shown on his certificate 
of discharge. Land conveyance in the United Kuigdom will not 
be allowed. 

363. On transfer to the army reserve, soldiers are granted con- 
veyance under the conditions stated below, and subjept to the 
restrictions specified in para. 364 : — 

(a) A soldier enlisted in the United Kingdom is entitled to 
conveyance to his selected place of residence therein. 

(b) A soldier enlisted abroad will be granted conveyance to his 



Transfer 
to Army 
Reserve. 



97 



Travelling. 



selected place of residence within the United Kingdom. If permitted 
under War Office authority to reside abroad, conveyance to the 
place of enlistment will be allowed. 

(c) A soldier transferred to the reserve at a station abroad, 
with a view to his residing within the command, will be granted 
conveyance under such conditions as may be laid down in local 
regulations. 

(d) A soldier specially granted a transfer to the reserve on 
conversion of service while serving abroad may be provided with 
passage by the first available public opportunity, or faiUng one 
within a reasonable time, by freight ship with other soldiers 
returning home for transfer to the reserve. 

(e) A soldier who, on transfer to the reserve in India, has been 
permitted to reside in that country, and has afterwards been granted 
a free passage home under Indian Army Regulations on or before his 
final discharge from the army, will be granted free conveyance to 
his selected place of residence in the United Kingdom for himself, 
and also for his family, provided that he was on the married roll at 
the time of his transfer to the reserve. 

364. Conveyance will not be granted on discharge or transfer to Restvic- 
the army reserve : — tions. 

(a) After the date of discharge or transfer to the reserve, except 
in the case of illness of the soldier or his family, when the officer 
authorized to give conveyance may defer the grant for such time as 
is considered necessary on medical grounds, or except as provided in 
paras. 362 (/) and 363 (e). 

(6) If the soldier is released from confinement in a civil prison at 
home. 

(c) If the soldier is discharged by purchase. 

(d) If the soldier is discharged at the request of his parents or 
guardians in consequence of having made a false statement as to 
age upon enlistment. 

(e) If the soldier is relegated to the army reserve after improper 
enlistment. 

7. Deserters. 

365. Subject to the limit of 40s. for reward and expenses before When 
committal, the travelling expenses of a deserter in civil custody, expenses 
and of the police escort, are admissible against army funds, unless gible'^""^' 
the deserter is detained in, or proceeding to, a civil prison. ^ "* ^' 

366. The expenses of county constabulary are generally regulated Expenses 
by county rules ; but no refreshment allowance is granted before °^ county . 
committal if a reward is given, and no charge for pay or extra pay 5=°°^'^'^^- 
is admissible. 

367. In every case a detailed statement of expenses before Certified 
eommitta,!, certified by the committing magistrate, and counter- statement 
signed by the O.C. the unit to which the deserter belongs, will be ''eq"hed. 

{B 10575) _ 



Travelling. 



98 



forwarded, together with proof of payment, in support ot the cliarge. 
For expenses incurred by the police after committal the certificate 
of the local head of the police will be accepted. 

In the case of the apprehension of a man upon suspicion, who 
proves upon inquiry not to be a deserter, the claim for expenses (if 
any) will be referred to the G.O.C. to decide whether they shall be 
allowed against army funds. 

8. Soldiers' Families. 

A. On the married esiablishment. 

Persons 368. The regulations under the above heading apply to : — 

included in The married establishment as defined in para. 94. 

lationr^"" (&) Soldiers' daughters between 14 and 16 years of age. 

defined. (c) Children over age who would, through bodily or mental 
infirmity, become destitute if not conveyed with their famihes. 
Such cases must be specially submitted to the Army Council if 
passage to a station abroad is involved, otherwise to the G.O.C. 

(d) Children over age who were originally sent to a station 
abroad at the public expeni?e ; in which case they may proceed with 
the family until arrival home again. 

When con- 369. Conveyance will be provided for the families specified in 
veyance is para. 368 : — 

granted. When accompanying the soldier — 

(a) On change of station, unless he proceeds aa servant to an 
officer moving Avithout troops ; 

(b) On discharge from the army or on transfer to the army 
reserve ; 

(c) On the enlistment of a pensioner or other person who is placed 
upon the married estabhshment on joining. 

When not accompanying the soldier — • 

{d) On change of station (unless the soldier proceeds as servant 
to an officer moving without troops), when the family, through 
illness or other cause, is unable at the time to accompany the 
soldier. 

(e) When troops or individual soldiers are ordered to embark for 
service abroad without their families ; and when families are sent 
home from abroad. 

(/) When the families referred to under (e) are permitted to rejoin. 

(gr) When the soldier dies while serving. In this case the family 
may elect to go to the place at which the man was married, even if 
abroad. 

(h) When the soldier deserts, is imprisoned, or is under detention 
for six months and upwards, or is discharged on committal to a 
civil prison. 

(i) When the soldier becomes a lunatic, unless it is decided to 
send the family to the man's parish, or to the plane of the wife's 
marriage if abroai. 



99 



Travelling. 



(/) When the wife is struck off the married roll for misconduct. 
(Expenses are not allowed on reinstatement.) 

(fc) When the wife dies or becomes a lunatic. In this case a 
guide may, if necessary, be sent with the children from the home 
station or port of disembarkation. 

{I) When families are sent to their homes on mobilization, and 
when they rejoin therefrom. 

(m) When the family, on being brought on the married estab-j a.O. 136 
hshment, proceeds to a port of embarkation to join the soldier! fgn 
serving abroad. I 

(n) To the United I^ngdom when a soldier stationed abroad o 198 
is ordered to a station mentioned in para, 116 (10) and elects to — ^[g^p 
proceed without his family ; and on rejoining the soldier when 
moved to another station. 

In cases (e) to (I) expenses are only allowed to or from the family's 
selected place of residence within the United Kingdom, except as 
provided under (gr) and (i). 

Claim anls under (g) to {Jc) must proceed within three months, 
if at a home station ; and by the first public opportunity, if at a 
station abroad. The sanction of the Secretary of State for India 
in Council is required for the passage to India under {g) or (i) of a 
woman not of native Indian parentage. 

370. A soldier sent home from abroad Avith his invalided family, 
• on the recommendation of a medical board, will be allowed con- 
veyance to the home battalion, the depot, or, when granted 

; ftu-lough, to the home of the family. He will also be allowed 
travelling expenses when proceeding to rejoin for duty either at 
home or abroad. 

B. Intended wives. 

371. Conveyance by sea (under the conditions laid down in 
the King's Regulations) and land expenses from the port of dis- 

' embarkation are admissible for the intended wife of a soldier who 
has been granted permission to marry while serving in India or at 
: any other station abroad. Land expenses to the port of embarkation lyil" 
1 are inadmissible. 

G. Not on the married establishment. 

372. Conveyance will be provided under the circumstances ^''sn 
detailed in (6) and (e) of para. 369 ; also imder (g) of that para., as auce^is" 

: regards conveyance to their homes in the United Klingdom. In granted, 
the cases under (6) or (gr), however, the cost will be recovered from 

;the soldier's deferred pay or gratuity, if any is due. 



Soldier 
sent home 
with 

invalided 
family. 



When 
expenses 
&c. are 
granted. 

A.O. 165 



9. Witnesses. 

373. Travelling expenses are usually granted to witnesses attend- Coiirts- 
;ing courts-martial, or courts of inquiry, held solely upon the public "ini tial or 
■ service ; but-- J . conrt.s of 

(B 10575) E 2 



Travelling. 



100 



Certificate 

jip.rsonal 

allowaucc. 



Attending 

civil 

courts. 



A.O. 264 
1912 

Defend- 
ants befor 
civil 

tribunals. 



(a) The expenses of witn&sscs in personal disputes, or for the 
defence of officers found guilty, will only be admitted when the 
president of the court certifies that their evidence was necessary for 
tlie defence, and the G.O.C. specially sanctions payment. 

(b) No expenses are allowed for inquiries connected with mess 
accounts or regimental funds. 

374. Claims of civilian witnesses should be certified by the 
president as just and reasonable. A personal allowance may be 
granted suitable to the claimant's station in life and to the period 
of attendance (these particulars should be shown in the claim) ; 
but at stations abroad any tariff or established practice which exists 
for civil courts should be made the basis of settlement, and the 
claim certified as in conformity with it. 

375. Regulated travelling expenses are admissible for officers, 
soldiers, or civilian subordinates, attending as witnesses at civil 
courts to give evidence on matters coming before them in their 
official capacity ; but they should obtain the full amount payable to 
them as witnesses, and account for it as public money, applying to 
the solicitor who served the subpoena for further payment, in 
addition to the subpoena fee, when detained more than one day or 

I when this fee is insufficient. In criminal cases in Ireland no court 
expenses are recoverable from civil funds. 

376. When officers or soldiers are defendants in cases tried before 
e civil tribunals they must provide for the attendance, without cost 

to the public, of any military or other witnesses they may call for 
their defence. 



^10. Mode of Conveyance. 

The 377. Travelling expenses are allowed by the cheapest railway (or 

i-outeTo\e cheapest direct railway and steamship) route only, except under the 
used. following circumstances : — 

(a) When the dearer route effects a saving of time which is of 
importance for the public service. 

(b) When objectionable on military grounds, e.g., as involving 
frequent changes of train, or delay on the journey. 

(c) When an exception is specially sanctioned by the G.O.C. 
This regulation should always be borne in mind in interpreting 

the term " travelling expenses," and " conveyance," and exceptions 
should be explained on the claim, and in the space provided for that 
purpose on the form of railway warrant. 
Glass of 378. The following table and notes (a) to (/) show the classes of 
accommo- accommodation, by rail or sea, assigned to Government passengers :— 

UiitjlOIl* 



101 



Travelling. 



Rank. 



Classes 1 to 14. [See also (rf)] 

Warrant officers, schoolmasters, and 
schoolmistkesses 

Non-commissioned officers, class 16 ... 

Other soldiers (including soldier ser- 
vants) • 

Civilian servants 

Civilian subordinates : 
(i.) Temporary civilian clerks of woi-ks 
and drauglitsmen ; temporary sur- 
veyors' clerks 

(ii.) Barrack wardens, class 1 

(iii.) ,, „ if in class 16 

(iv.) When specially authorized 

(v.) Other civilian subordinates 

COLOUKED soldiers AST) SERVANTS 



Families 



Husbands of Scuoolmistkesses, in the 
circumstances specified in para. 358. 



Class of accommodation. 



By rail. 


By 

packet. 


By 

traunport 
or frciglit- 
sbip. 


1st 


i«t C/) 


1st 


zncL 
3rd 


2nd (n) 
2nd 


2nd 
2nd 


3rd 
3rd (e) 


3rd 
2nd 


3rd 
2nd 


2ud 
3rd (*) 
3rd 
2nd 
3rd 


1st 
2nd (a) 
2nd 
2nd 
3rd 


Ist 
2nd 
2nd 
2nd 
3rd 



A.O. 324 
I l'J12 



To be governed by the local 
regulations approved by the 
Array Council. 

The class to which the 
husband or schoolmistress is 
entitled. 

That to which they vrere 
entitled on discharge. 



{a) When 2nd class is not available 1st class is allowed in these 
cases. 

(&) The classes of accommodation given in column 2 can only be 
regarded as approximately representing the description of convey- 
ance by long sea route, suitable to each rank. In some few cases 
3rd class does not exist, or the classes called 2nd or 3rd are unsuit- 
able for women and children, or for Europeans generally. Soldiers 
will always be given accommodation securing adequate protection 
from the weather. 

(c) A superior class of accommodation may upon medical recom- 
mendation be assigned to invalids. 

(d) Separate cabin accommodation is granted to officers of 
Classens 1, 2 and 4, and to officers of Class 3, unless returning home on 
promotion to a rank in such class. When officers of these classes 
are entitled to passage for their families and the families accompany 
the officers, a reserved cabin for the officer and his wife, and a 
first class passage for each child not accommodated in the reserved 
cabin, will be provided. 



If in uniform, 2nd class accommodation by railway will be allowed 
(B 10576) „ 3 



Travelling. 

(e) Civilian servants of the Inspector- General of the Forces, 
and of the G.O.C. the forces in Ireland may travel 2nd class. 

(/) Only 2nd class accommodation will be allowed for packet 
passages granted under paras. 437 and 443 (h). 
Officers on 379. Officers on the lodging list are not entitled to conveyance 
lodging at the public expense between their lodgings and their barracks or 
office, and their journeys will, as regards the recovery of travelling 
expenses, be usually considered as commencing from barracks or 
office. 

In cases, however, of journeys necessarily commenced direct from 
their lodgings, travelhng expenses' may be allowed thence by 
G.Os.C. subject to the general condition that extra expense is not 
thrown on the public through the officers residing farther than is 
necessary from their usual place of work. 
Cab hire— 380. Cab hire may be allowed to officers under the following 
officers. circumstances, if no suitable pubhc conveyance is available :— 

(a) For all distances of 2 miles and upwards. 

(6) For distances of less than 2 miles, either when baggage is 
necessarily carried, or when required for the saving of time in 
circumstances not under the control of the officer ; in the latter case 
the reasons for the urgency should be fully explained on the claim. 

(c) In special casefs not covered by the above, G.Os.C. _ may 
authorize cab hire if in their opinion such cab hire was desirable 
in the interests of the public service. 
Officers on 381. When two or more officers are proceeding on the same 
same journey, separate vehicles will not be allowed for each, in cases 
journey. ^jj^j-g possible to make more economical arrangements. 
Oab hire— 382. The hire of a cab or special conveyance may also be allowed :— 
soldiers. (^j) -poT soldiers not below the rank of Serjeant, for school- 
mistresses, and for soldiers' famiUes, when necessarily traveUing 
with baggage, if no cheaper mode of conveyance is available. 

(b) For soldiers in arrest when railway conveyance cannot be 

used. , . 

(c) For conveying military foremen of works to or from their 
duties if the distance exceeds 3 miles and no cheaper mode of con- 
veyance is available. Charges for shorter distances will only be 
allowed on grounds of " urgency," and must be speciaUy approved. 

(d) When specially sanctioned by the G.O.C. ; as e.g., for invahds. 
Coacli, &c., 383. When no railway is available, fares by an ordinarj^ pubUc 
fares for conveyance are allowed for recruits proceeding, after attestation, to 
recruits. headquarters of the district in which they are raised, if the 

distance exceeds 4 miles. . 
Gratuities 384. Gratuities to railway porters, ships' stewards &c., are mad- 
porterage, missible, but porterage outside a railway station will be allowed tor 
journeys with baggage when cab hire is not charged. Booking or 
cloak room fees are only allowed when cab-hire other^^nse admissible 
is thereby saved. The cost of sleeping berths on trains or boats 



103 



Travelling. 




Hoi'SGS in 



in the United Kingdom is incadmissible as a charge against the 
pubUc, being covered by the nightly rate of travclUng allowances. 

When travelling abroad oi^icers wiil be allowed the cost of sleeping 
berths, in addition to the nightly rate of travelling allowances, 
except in the case of officers of Classes 7 to. 14 for journeys occupying 
one niglit only. . 

385. The cost of conveying horses in horse-boxes is only admis- 

sible : — boxes. 
(«) For officers' chargers. 

(b) When not more expensive than conveyance in cattle trucks. 

(c) When specially sanctioned by the G.O.C., in which case a 
report of the circumstances should be given on the route. [See 
also instructions in the King's Regulations as to transport of sick 
horses by rail. ] 

III.— ALLOWANCES FOR USE OF PRIVATE MOTOR 

VEHICLES. 

3S6. Officers and others using their own motor vehicles on Wlien _ 
public journeys may draw the allowances authorized by this sub- admissible, 
section in all cases where conveyance is admissible, subject to the 
following conditions : — 1-t 

(a) That the total charge for mileage, storage and chauffeur's Ueu. Jno. 
allowance is not more than the cost ef conveyance by the cheapest 54^7. 
means, and 

(b) That travelling allowances under para. 395 will be admissible 
only in respect of the time actually occupied on the journeys. 

As to injuries or damage caused to or by such vehicles by accident Accidents, 
or otherwise, see para. 549. 

387. In cases in which these allowances amount to more than When 
the cost by ordinary means of conveyance, they may be drawn if allowance 
approved by, or on behalf of, the G.O.C, on either of the following "^^'^f^f 
grounds ; (a) that the employment of the motor vehicles enabled orilinary 
duties to be carried out which could not have been satisfactorily couvey- 
performed by other means, e.g., stafJ tours ; (b) that the gain in ance. 
time consequent on the use of the motor vehicle justified the extra 
expense. 

388. In cases coming under para. 387, the use of the motor Pi-jgr 
car should, except under the most special circumstances, be approved approval 
prior to the employment at the pubUc expense being incurred. be 

It is to be noted that as the rates are based on the size of the car, o'^'^iilid" 
not on the number of persons carried on duty in it, the use of a 
larger car throws additional expense upon the public, and it will be 
the duty of the G.O.C. to utilize in the case of journeys of one or 
two individuals a smaller car, when available, in preference to a 
larger one. 

389. When a motor vehicle has to be brought from the offi cer s Convey- 

station to the point at which its employment on service is to ■■>"ce to 

slartiug 

(B 105,0) e4 point. 



Travelling. 104 

commence, mileage rates wiW be admissible for this journey. In the 
case of a motor bicycle or tricycle actually conveyed by passenger 
train, the cost of such conveyance may be granted in lieu of mileage 
rates. 

Bates. 390. The rates will be as follows : — 

(a) Mileage. 

Per mile 

Motor bicycle or tricycle ... l^d. 

A motor car with two or three seats 4d 

A motor car with four or more seats ... ... Qd 

(b) Storage. 

For every night on which an officer with his motor vehicle is 
necessarily absent on duty from his station, and on which the 
nightly rate of travelling allowance is admissible, an allowance will 
be granted for storage as follows : — 

8. d. 

For a motor bicycle or tricycle ... ... ... 10 

For a motor car, if the nightly travelling allowance 

for a chauffeur is claimed under para. 392 ... 1 0 
For a motor car, if a chauffeur is not taken ... 2 6 

Travelling 391. Travelling allowance for officers conveyed in private motor 
^f^°ffl*"^^ vehicles for which the above allowances are drawn will be governed 
of officer, p^^^ ggg^ except that when the vehicle, is used under the con- 
ditions of para. 387, the daily rate mil not be admissible unless 
the period of necessary absence exceeds 7 hours. 
Travelling 392. TraveUing allowance for a chauffexir, if taken, will be 
allowance , ^^jj^ssible at the rates laid down in para. 395 (g) for officers' 
cliauffeur. servants, subject to the exception in para. 391. 
Warrant 393. The regulations will apply to warrant officers and soldiers 
officers and so far as regards motor bicycles and tricycles, the claim being 
soldiers. supported by a certificate signed on behalf of the G.O.C. that the 
use of the vehicle was required in the interests of the pubUc 
service. 



IV,— TRAVELLING ALLOWANCES. 

Issue of. 394. Travelling allowance for journeys, and for limited periods 
* of necessary absence on duty from the usual place of residence, will 

be issued to officers and others, under the conditions and subject to 
the restrictions contained in paras 395 to 409. 
395. The authorized rates of travelling allowance are as follows : — 



105 



Travelling 



d 

& 
o 

"3 

'bp 
'a 



c3 



•s.niot[ OT sposoxa 
Xau.inof 01(1 uo poid 
-nooo XiiaTigseoait aiiii^ 
JO aouasqu Xa-Dssaooii 
JO poiaod an; jp Uq") 
ptiTj (u) 668 ""-ind aapiifi 



'668 ■iJ-i^'^I .raptifi 



"868 ■^J'Etl .ispnfl 



•not^na; 
-ap ^s^qSin naAas jajjy 



•[UAI.l.l-B 

JO inSin o; uojuppTj 
nt 'sjqSiu iiaAas o} dn 
nopna^ap Sni.mp osju 
1 SiitjpAB.i^} JO s^qSiu .10^ 



'TS o o o o 



o o 


to CO 


o 


o 


CO CO 


CC I— ( ' 






O O 


CO 












: : 


o o 


CO o 


CO 


o 


»• >o o 


CO 


(M 


(N 


'^3 O O 


o o 


O 


(D 




O lO 




CO 














CO 


sta 




03 

7^ 


A.O. 



? « 

to --j 



£"3 



<D O 

=^ 

Ir 

§ 2 

• ii m P 
D o 

C3 ^ o 
O lO l< 

o ca 



Travelling. 



106 



•s.moii 01 epaooxo 
if9u.inoC oi['i no ptitd 
-nooo X[u«8sooon ouiii 
.10 obtiosq-B X.iBSsaoau 
JO poijod sin j; '(?) 
put! (u) 668 .lapnn 



•668 ■'-'•"■''^ -lapan 



P3 



•868 Japnn 



•uopno^ 
-ap .smSm n8A8s .ia?jv 



JO ?q3in o^ uot^tpp-B 
ni 's'mSiu n9A9S dn 
noT;u9^op 3ui.mp os[t; 
i S'ui^gAu.i:) JO s'tuSin .lO j 



4 
(3 



a 



11 



X — 



'6 



= a 



05 -a 

: d =^ 



c a t 
S ^ ! 

O c ' 



-w ci o £ 



. a ai g ; 
a > -i3 „ 



a ! 
ft '■ 



0) 



a - 
o a 

ci 



<¥ S c — 



"3 



o 

5 & a a ,s 

S o ~ s 
o .1-. > oS 

an " 
S g K E -S 

^ t; O o I 
^' 2 ? " 

fi 5 a 
" oji p 

CO 



a 

3 
o 



zj o 
o s; 1- 

a ; 



- - 



-J S 



i - K 



^ ^ a 
^ — c 



ft 
a , 



" o - 
o ^ — 



a — c3 



- !S a: 

o =0 i" 



£ S05 

I. = Q 



5 ft ? 
ft-'- . 



C5 



107 



Travelling. 



Nightly Allowance ; Rates 1 and 2. 

396. Travelling allowance at rates 1 and 2 will be granted when When 
officers and others are temporarily absent at night from their stations gianted. 
or usual places of residence, and are not provided with accom- 
modation in public quarters nor placed on the lodging hst. 

When officers and warrant officers are accommodated in billets, a 
deduction of the statutory cost of billets will be made from the 
travelling allowance. 

397. The nightly rates of travelling allowance are not, in ordinary When not 
circumstances, issuable during detention, if such detention (not ordinarily 
reckoning the night of arrival) is in excess of seven m'ghts. Should, S^'^" ^ • 
however, the detention be prolonged beyond this period, and 
expenses be necessarily incurred which local allowances will not 

cover, G.Os.C. may authorize payment of a traveUing allowancei q 504 
for the whole period if they consider the issue necessary. Suitable! 
rates may be granted to meet the conditions of each case, but' 
G.Os.C. will in no instance authorize a rate of allowance in excess 
of the scale laid down in para. 395. 

Nightly Allowance ; Rate 3. 

398. Rate 3 is applicable to those special cases in which it may be When 
desirable to issue travelling allowance to officers and others, who applicable, 
although provided with public quarters, or in receipt of lodging ^'^^ 



allowance, are put to additional expense by reason of travelling.! 
It is also applicable to the case of officers who are the official guests ! — ^^^^ 
of a foreign Govenmient. J 2975" 

It may be issued in the following cases if approved by the G.O.C. : — ! 

(a) When officers or warrant officers are detached singly on duty 
with troops for any period not exceeding seven nights (exclusive of 
the night of joining) or are called out with troops in aid of the 
civil power at stations other than their own. 

(b) When officers are detained in quarantine, in quarters on 
shore, and not messed at the public expense. 

(c) When officers are necessarily separated from their heavy 
baggage in consequence of the movement of bodies of troops on 
permanent change of station. The allowance may be given for a 
limited period preceding or following the move, but will not be 
issued for more than two nights in connection with any move within 
the United Kingdom or a colony : if, however, the move is from 
the United Kingdom to a station abroad, or vice vers&, or by sea 
inter-colonially, the allowance may be issued for a maximum 
number of four nights (see para. 419). 

(d) When an officer joins a corps at home for the purpose of 
taking charge of, or doing duty with, a draft for abroad. The 
allowance in this c?use will not be issued for a period exceeding 
seven nights. 



Travelling. 



108 



When 
issuable. 



Militaij 
attaches. 



Soldiers' 
rates. 

8 

Allow- 
ances. 

""89 



(e) In special cases other than the above, G.Os.C. may sanction 
the issue of travelling allowance at rate 3. or at a lower rate, if 
they consider the circumstances render such issue necessary. The 
authority will in each case be attached as a voucher in the account. 

Daily Allowance ; Rates 4 and 5. 

399. A daily rate of travelling allowance will be issued to officers 
and others in the following circumstances: — 

(a) For a journey from and to the claimant's station, if he 
proceeds to a place beyond 10 miles by the ordinary route from 
such station, and returns the same day. 

In special cases G.Os.C. may relax the 10 miles' limit, a report of 
the circumstances being attached to the travelling claim. 

{b) For a journey completed in one day on permanent or tem- 
porary change of station, or for a journey to or from a port of 
embarkation or disembarkation, if a distance of more than 10 miles 
is travelled. 

(c) Rate 4 for the last day of a journey which exceeds 24 hours ; 
but the allowance will not be issuable in respect of a journey from 
a port of disembarkation, except as provided for in (b), nor in cases 
in which the journey is completed before 7 a.m. 

The daily allowances are admissible together with local allowances, 
but will not be issued for days for which a nightly allowance is 
granted, nor will more than one allowance be admitted for any one 
day. 

The daily allowance will not be admissible for a journey per- 
formed in a government motor car or car hired at the pubhc 
expense, unless the period of necessary absence exceeds 7 hours. 

Military Attaches. 

400. Travelling allowance at the rate of 21s. a night for the 
whole period of a journey will be granted to a military attach^ 
travelling on duty in a foreign country. Only 3s. 6rf. mider 
para. 39'9 (c) will be admissible for the last day of the journey. 

Travelling Allowances to Troops and Families. 

401. Soldiers serving at home and not receiving travelling allow- 
ances under paras. 394 to 399, will receive the following rates of 
travelling allowance for journeys by rail, steamship (without rations), 
balloon, airship, or aeroplane : — 



For journeys of 150 miles and under 300 miles 
„ ,, 300 miles and under 600 miles 
„ „ 600 miles and upwards 

The receipt of these allowances will not debar 
receiving a hot meal if billeted. 



s. 
0 
1 
1 



a soldier from 



]09 



Travelling. 



In case of journeys by steamship or balloon, 1 mile may be 
reckoned as 3 miles for the grant of the allowance under this para. 

402. A travelling allowance of Is. a day is given for each day of Dis- 
journey, without rations, to discharged soldiers conveyed at the 
pubhc expense, if they are not entitled to receive a gratuity, 
deferred pay, or an advance of pension. 

403. The rates for the subsistence of a deserter or soldier in Deserter 

„. or soldier 

arrest arc : — . . 

At home stations, when actually on the march, or when confined 
to police cells or other authorized place of confinement — not 
exceeding Is. a day. When the man is confined in a civil prison 
no charge is admissible against army funds. 

At stations abroad — such sums as the Army Council shall 
dfttermme. 

When confined in a mihtary guard detention-room while on the 
march — Qd. a day. 

404. The famihes of soldiers entitled to conveyance at the public Families, 
expense will, when necessarily traveUing apart from the soldier and 
unaccompanied by troops, receive travelling allowance at the 
following daily rates : — 



Cbild. 



(n) For a jouriK-y of over '20 miles 
{b) If detained at a port of enibarkatiou, or disem- 
barkation (giveu for one day only in the latter 
case), not counting days of arrival or depart- 
ture ; or if detained at an intermediate station 
through sickness and not rationed — 

Not in barracks 

In barracks 




405. A mileage allowance at the following rates is granted to Mileage 
discharged soldiers and their families in cases where conveyance allowance 
cannot be provided by rail or sea : — discl.arged 

At home. — Id. a mile for the soldier and each member of his soldiers, 
family. 

Abroad. — Such rates as the Army Council may fix in view of 
local circumstances. 

Special Grants. 

406. Soldiers, civilian subordinates, and their families will Special 
when necessarily incurring exceptional expenses while travelhng, ''i'*''^- 
or during detention on a journey, be granted such rates of travelling 
allowance as the G.O.C. may approve. Such special grants when 



Travelling. 



no 



Officers 
with 
troops 
abroad. 



Sepavatiou 
from heavy 
baggage. 

During in- 
struction. 



When the 
allowance 
is not 
admissible, 



in excess of £5 will be reported quarterly to the War Office, on 
A.F. F740. 

General Conditions. 

407. Officers and others travelling with troops at a station 
abroad are not, as a general rule, entitled to travelling allowance, 
except where special provision has been made, with War Office 
authority, in the local regulations of the command. An officer 
accompanied by one soldier at a station abroad will, however, 
be considered as travelUng without troops ; and an officer in 
command of a small party of not more than 10 N.C.Os. and men 
will be similarly treated, if it is impracticable to make arrangement,? 
for the supply of rations. 

Subject to the provisions of para. 398 (c), a travelling allowance 
may be issued to officers necessarily separated from their heav}' 
baggage when troops are moved abroad on change of station. 

408. Officers undergoing instruction at military educational 
establishments, or employed on reconnaissance duty or other 
instructional exercises in the vicinity of their stations, are not 
entitled to travelling allowance under para. 395 ; but the com- 
mandant, or G.O.C., as the case may be, may grant an allowance 
not exceeding that scale, the special authority being annexed to 
the travelling claim. 

409. Travelling allowances will not be issued : — 

(a) To officers and others receiving pay or allowances which 
cover travelling allowances. 

(b) To officers and others, except civihan servants, marching with 
troops at manoeuvres or drills or on active service. 

(c) For nights when officers and others are on board ship if 
accommodated and messed at the public expense. 

(d) When officers and others travel on duty with convoys, and 
return to their station on the same day. 

(e) To officers and others under canvas, except that dailj' allow- 
ances may be issued for journeys to or from a standing camp, under 
the conditions of para. 399. 

(/) To the substitutes of officers on leave, except as laid down in 
para. 317. 



v.— RAILWAY AND STEAMSHIP FARES AND 
WARRANTS (UNITED KINGDOM). 

Railwa}' 410. The undermentioned fares are chargeable for miUtary 
shf ^faT"' " P^-ssengers in the United Kingdom, by railway companies, by lines 
of steamboats owned by the railway companies, and by the lines of 
steamboats referred to in the King's Regulations. The " fare " 
referred to is the ordinary fare to the public for the single journey : — 



Ill 



Travelling. 



{a) In Great Britain, and beticeen places in Great Britain and 

Ireland. 



1 to 125 .. 
Over 125 .. 



I fare. 

125 as above. Remainder -| fare. Four 
officers wiU be included in the 125 at 
I fare. 

f50 men and 50 horses | fare (for 
Squadrons of cavalry and | individuals). . v • , , ^ 

batteries of artillery vnthi under 50 | fare (for mdividuals) 

' charge not to exceed that for 50 at 



horses 

J ^ 95 to 125 As'for 126 at i fare each way. 
Going from and j j- 1 ^^^^ ga,ch way for the whole number, 

returning to a |_Qyg J, J 25 J including advance parties, and 
station within , |^ details sent after the main body. 

3 months 



(b) Special rates for not less them 2,000 troops proceeding by 
rail to points of concentration in Great Britain. 



Train loads of at least 400 men to be sent, except in 
the following cases in which concentration rates will be 
charged without reference to the numbers proceeding :— 

(i) A squadron of cavalry ... 1 Moving with 
A battery of artillery ...I their horses, 
A company of A.S.C. ; or ... ^^^^^^ wagons 
A company of R.E. ... J 

(ii) Detached parties embraced in the concentration 

and proceeding by ordinary train 

(c) In Ireland. 



>j 4^ 'Ti 
S S 

B <D c3 



Hid 



CD 

° 9. 



I to 10 

II to 14 

15 to 20 
Over 20 



Going from and returning 
to a station within 3 
months 



Full ordinary ingle or return fare. 
J As for 10 at full ordinary single or 

■ I return fare. 

/ 1 ordinary single or return fare for the 

■ I whole number. 

, 5 ordinary single fare for the whole 
number (for return journey see 
below). 

' Over 20, at -^^d. a mile each way for the 
whole number, including advance 
parties, and details sent after the 
J main body. 
The charge under this arrangement 
for any party less than 21 not to 
exceed the charge for 21 at the 
reduced fare. 



TraveUing. 



112 



Nurses. 



Return or 

cheap 

tickets. 



Ohildreu. 



Horses. 



I fare, not exceeding ^d. a mile (f( 
individuals). 



or 



Squadrons of cavalry (in- 
cluding Irish Horse), or 
batteries of artillery 
with horses, consisting 
of not less than 50 men 
and 50 horses. 

An officer, except when travelling with pai'ties of less than 10 
counts as 2 men. A warrant officer is charged for at i more than a 
private soldier. 

411. Nurses are permitted to travel in Great Britain and 
between places in Great Britain and places in Ireland at i fare 

412. Both in Great Britain and in Ireland return tickets or 
special cheap tickets, will be taken if possible when a saving would 
be thereby effected. During certain times of the year tourist or 
seaside tickets can be obtained at considerable reduction of cost and 
officers should made enquiries on the subject and use them as far as 
may be practicable. 

413. Children under 3 years of age wiU be carried free ; between 
d and 12 years at half the military rate. 

414. The following are the rates at which horses will be conveyed 
by railway in Great Britain and Ireland and by the lines of steam- 
boats referred to in para. 410 : — 

In horse boxes by rail (or equivalent accommodation on board 
ship) : — 

^ ••• ■-- - 3d. per mile. 



2 

3 

4 

5 

6 to 37 inclusive 
38 to 49 inclusive 
Over 49 ... 



5d. 
Id. 
9d. 
lOid. 



,.. 2d. per horse per mUe. 
... 65. 3d. per mile (as for 50). 
l^d. per horse per mile. 

In cattle trucks by rail (or on board ship in accommodation 
suitable for troop horses, arranged between companies and the War 
Office) : — 



*4 

5 ... ! 

6 to 33 inclusive . 
34 to 49 inclusive 
Over 49 ... 



2d. per horse per mile. 
9d. per mile (as for 6). 
l^d. per horse per mile 



... l^d. per horse per mile. 
... 45. 2d. per mile (as for 50) 
... Id. per horse per mile. 

6s. will be the minimum charge per horae box or cattle truck. 
The charge for horses conveyed either in horse boxe.3 or cattle 
trucks will not in any case exceed that made to the public. 



* A less number than 4 should be conveyed in horse boxes. 



113 



Travelling 



415. In the case of officers and other in Great Britain proceed- Fractions 
ing by train under military orders, and paying for their ticlcets, of peuce. 
any fractions of a penny which occur in reckoning their fares at 
two-thirds of the ordinary fares will be adjusted and charged to the 

pubhc as follows : — 

Any fraction under one half -penny will be struck off the fare, but 
a halfpenny or upwards will be made up to one penny. 

416. Railway companies are exempt from giving stamped receipts Beceipts 

,,. 7 on war- 

on travelling warrants. rants. 

VI. MODE OF PREPARATION AND SETTLEMENT 

OF TRAVELLING CLAIMS. 

417. Claims for actual travelling expenses (including any expense Form of 
• for conveyance of baggage incurred when proceeding without 

troops) and for travelling allowance, will be prepared in detail 
and in the order of occurrence on A.F. 0 1771 giving full particulars 
of the rail journeys, the numbers of the warrants used, and the route 
by which the passenger travelled ; will be supported by the necessary 
certificates and vouchers ; and will be submitted for payment not 
later than one month after the completion of the journey. 

418. The travelling expenses and allowances of soldier or civilian Officers' 
servants accompanpng officers travelling without troops wiU be servants, 
claimed by the officers concerned. 

419. Claims under para. 398 (c) will be made on A.F. 0 1771, ^."P^'j^*^'"" 
showing the circumstances under which the officers were separated Ja'gga'^^^' 
from their baggage. A special certificate should be attached to ° 
the claim, showing that furniture for their rooms was actually hired, 

or what other expenses were incurred, in consequence of the absence 
of their baggage. 

420. When more than one officer of the same corps proceeds Officers 
from the same station on the same duty, aU the claims will be "^mployed 
included in one form, giving the name of each officer. duty. 

421. Charges for any unusual expenditure will be supported Vouoliers. 
by a statement of the circumstances which rendered it necessary ; 

and receipted vouchers will be obtained for all miscellaneous 
expenditure whenever practicable, including cab fares, &c., of over 
10s. The distances travelled by road will be stated on the claims, 
and also the distances by rail for Irish railways and in all cases of 
conveyance of horses. 

422. Claims for journeys under route will be supported by a Routes, 
reference to the number of the route, to the account with which 

the route will be found, and to its voucher number. 

423. The travelling claims of Os.C. units and of local heads of Counter- 
departments will be countersigned by the general or other O.C. ; of^claim^ 
those of junior officers of units or departments, and of warrant and Ac. 
N.C.Os. and civilians will be countersigned by the C.Os. and local 

heads of departments respectively. 



Travelling. 



9 



114 



How 8up- 
portud. 



424. Travelling claims will be supported as follows : — 

(a) Claims under headquarter authority, by the original order 
directing the journey or a certified copy thereof. 

(b) Claims for journeys ordered by an officer to whom the power 
to authorize journeys lias been specially delegated under the King's 
Regulations, by the approval of that officer. 

(c) Claims for journeys other than those specified in (a) or (h), by 
a certified copy of district orders authorizing the journey, or by the 
approval of the G.O.C., on A.F. A 25. 

425. Claims for travelling, as follows, will be adjusted by the 
command paymaster of the command in which the claimants are 
permanently stationed : — 

(a) Claims of officers not travelling under route, except as 
provided in paras. 426 {a) and (6), 427 (a) and 429 (a). 

(6) Claims of members of Q.A.I.M.N.S., officiating clergymen, 
civilian medical practitioners, military and civilian subordinates. 

(c) Claims in cormection with the training grant. 

(d) Claims not otherwise provided for in paras. 426 to 429. 
Claims under (a) and (b) for journeys on permanent change of 

station will be adjusted by the command paymaster of the command 
to which the claimants proceed. 

426. The following claims will be adjusted by the command 
paymaster as indicated : — 

(a) Claims of officers on the establishment of the Central Fljdng 
School, by the command paymaster. Southern Command, those of 
other officers of the Royal Flying Corps, Military Wing, by the 
command paymaster, Aldershot. The latter officer will also deal 
with the claims of officers attached to the Royal Flying Corps 
whether at the School or with the Military Wing. 

(6) The claims of officers who are on leave from abroad, if they 
are not attached to a unit, by the command paymaster. Eastern 
Command. 

(c) Claims for the expenses of civilian witnesses will be adjusted 
by the command paymaster of the command in which the court- 
martial or inquiry was held. 

(d) The travelling expenses of deserters and their escorts before 
committal and on committal direct to their corps -ndll be adjusted 
by the command paymaster of the command in which the deserters' 
unit is quartered, except in the case of expenses incurred by the 
Metropolitan and City Police, which will be claimed direct from 
the War Office. 

427. The following claims will be adjusted by the paj'master of 
the unit concerned : — 

(a) Claims of officers and men of the special reserve and 
territorial force (including the regular establishment and per- 
manent staff) and of regular officers attached to the special reserve 
or territorial force. 



115 



Travelling. 



(b) Claims of warrant officers and other individuals attached 
to units (except officers) not travelling under route. 

428. All claims or other charges in connection with journeys 
luider route, except as provided in 425 (c), will be adjusted by 
the paymaster of the unit into whose payment the claimants 
report, with the following exceptions : — 

(a) When parties of more than one unit proceed under the same 
route, all such claims will be adjusted by the paymaster of the 
unit holding the route. 

(6) The return journey of conducting parties will be charged on 
the original route, but medical officers returning without troops 
will be paid for the return journey on a traveUing claim by the 
command paymaster of their own command. 

(c) When troops embarli for service abroad the charges in con- 
nection with their journey under I'oute to the port of embarkation 
will be adjusted by the home paymaster concerned. 

(d) All charges for haulage of baggage from Southampton Town 
Station uito the docks, or vice versa, and for other services performed 
by the dock company, will be dealt mth by the embarkation 
commandant, Southampton. 

The charges for all journeys under route will be supported by the 
following vouchers : — 

(i.) All routes for the period, including those on which no local 
charges are made. 

(ii.) Vouchers for all miscellaneous payments. 

429. The following claims will be adjusted as indicated : — 

(a) Officers proceeding to India may forward to the War Office 
their claims for travelling expenses to the port of embarkation, 
after arrival there ; or may send them to their recognized agents 
for payment through them. 

(6) Claims for expenses in the United Kingdom of the families 
of officers enmnerated in para. 339 invalided from abroad, will be 
adjusted by the paymaster paj'ing the reservists of the unit. 

(c) The travelling allowances, &c., of recruits will be paid at 
the place from which they proceed, and charged in the account of 
the recruiting officer, supported by A.F. 0 1721. 

(d) The traveUing and other allowances of soldiers discharged, or 
transferred to the army reserve, will be paid at the station from 
which they proceed. The discharge certificate will be endorsed 
with the particulars of any issues made. 

(e) The travelling expenses incurred on the committal of a 
deserter to a civil prison will be paid from civil funds. 

430. Claims for expenses incurred under circumstances not 
provided for by regulation, and cases of doubt as to the propriety of 
particular charges, will be submitted before payment or dis- 
allowance, with a full report of the circumstances, for the decision 



Acljust- 
mont of 
claims, Ac, 
under 
route. 



Submis- 
sion of 
unusual 
charges. 



Passages. 

of the G.O.C. Appeals against the decision will be submitted to the 
War Office, when the G.O.C. considers such reference necessary. 
Olaiin for 431. At home, claims for sea passages or freight to or from places 
sea freight, outside the United Kingdom will be forwarded by the paymaster to 
the War Office, for pre-audit {see para. 485). 



Section 13.- PASSAGES. 
(Supplementary to Section 12.) 



I.- 



WHEN ALLOWED, 

These 432. As a general rule, the travelhng regulations (Section 12) will 

regulations ^-[^q govern the grant of sea passage, and only those regulations 
plement " which are peculiar to passage are contained in this section. 

433. Every effort should be made to provide passages in govern- 
ment vessels so far as practicable. 

Officers. 



ary 
Govern 
ment 
vessels 



434. Passages are granted to officers in the following cases, in 
addition to the cases in which they are granted under Section 12 :- 



Special 

grant of „„v»*„^„». ^ ^ 

passage retirement after service giving a claim to retired pay, 

by general except under Article 559 Pay Warrant, or gratuity. Passage may 

regula- 
tion. 



A.O. 52 



1913 



be deferred for a period not exceeding six months — in India, twelve 
months — if a public opportunity is not lost thereby. 

(6) If returning home under Article 526 of the Pay Warrant, 
(c) If ordered to do duty with detachments on board ship. 
{d) On exchange or transfer after six years' service abroad, but by 
pubUc vessel only. 

(e) When ordered while on leave from a station abroad to rejoin 
for duty, provided that the recall is due directly or indirectly to the 
requirements of active service and that they have not less than a 
week of the period of leave granted still unexpended on the day 
on which they reach their station, or, in cases where they are ordered 
to rejoin elsewhere, would have reached their station if they had 
rejoined there. 

(/) In the case of quartermasters, riding-masters, assistant pay- 
masters, district officers of R.A., commissaries, deputy commissaries 
or assistant-commissaries of ordnance, inspectors of ordnance 
machinery, and inspectors of army schools, when they are ordered 
on the special recommendation of a medical board, to accompany 
their invalided faraihes to their homes ; and when they are pro- 
ceeding to rejoin for duty at a station abroad. 



117 



Passages. 



435. In the case of officers granted sick leave, the following Sick leave, 
regulations will apply : — 

(a) Passages are granted to an officer when returning to the 
United Kingdom in order to proceed to his home on leave given 
upon the recommendation of a medical board, or rejoining after such 

(6) But if the officer was domiciled in a colony when appointed 
to a commission he may, when invaUded by a medical board with a 
recommendation that he be sent to his home, be granted passage 
from the United Kingdom or any station abroad to the colony in 
question, and return passage to the station where he rejoins for duty. 

(c) Passage to another country or colony is not to be substituted 
for passage to the United Kingdom or to the colony in which the 
officer was domiciled on first appointment, except when the officer 
is specially recommended by a medical board to proceed : — 

(i) From Hong Kong or North China to Japan, Vancouver, 

or AustraUa. 

(ii) From the Straits Settlements to Japan, Java, Ceylon, India, 

or Australia. 

(iii) From Malta or Egypt to Cyprus, France, Austria-Hungary, i .A.O. ii3 

or Italy. 5 1912 

(iv) From the West Coast of Africa to Madeira or the Canary 

Islands. 

{d) When an officer who is at home on leave of absence on 
private affair's is granted, on the recommendation of a medical 
board, an extension of leave exceeding 2 months in duration on 
account of sickness contracted durmg and in consequence of his 
service abroad, he shall be granted a passage to the station at which 
he is ordered to rejoin when reported iit for duty. 

(e) An officer who has come from abroad on leave on recommenda- 
tion of a medical board, shall not retain liis right to a passage back 
to his station if, after being reported fit for duty, he obtains an 
extension of leave on private affairs. 

436. Passages home and out are granted under the conditions Leave, 
specified in the King's Regulations as regards leave : — • 

(a) To an officer serving on the West Coast of Africa, and 

(b) To an officer of the West India Regiment provided that he 
has completed the required five years' service, without putting the 
public to any expense for passages. 

437. If the O.C. the troops is satisfied of the inability of an Officers 
officer removed or dismissed from the service to provide his own '^j'^^^^^^*^' 
passage, he may use his discretion in ordering a passage for him at to 
the pubUc expense, a report being made to the War Office {see para. pa.y for 
378 (/). passage. 



Passages. 



118 



Ollicur 438. An officer serving abroad will be liable for the cost of the 

Sri passages:- 

certain (1) Qf himself, his family and servants, his personal staff (if any) 

stanci's' their families and servants ; 

for cost of (2) Of the officer sent to fill a vacancy, and the personal staff 

passages, (if any) of such officer, not exceeding the cost of passage as from the 

A.O. 199 United Kingdom to the usual port in the command in which the 

1913 vacancy occurred ; caused by — 

(i) (a) A transfer (other than under para. 434 (</)) outside 

the command in which he is at the time serving unless 
carried out solely in the interests of the public service. 

(6) His being appointed to the staff of a civil governor, 
to a civil appointment, or to an appointment under a 
foreign government or a trading company. 

(c) His becoming a member of the House of Commons. 

{d) His being appointed to the personal staff outside the 
command in which he is at the time serving, to an 
adjutancy of I'lilitia or Volunteers, or of the Territorial 
Force, to an extra-regimental appointment such as an 
appointment at an educational establishment (exclusive 
of general staff appointments) or a Colonial appointment, 
or as a probationer for the A.S.C., unless specific in.struc- 
tions to the contrary are issued by the Army Council. 

(e) His being permitted to retire upon temporary retired 
pay imder article 559 of the Pay Warrant. 

(ii) His vacating a staff, departmental or extra-regimental 

appointment, before its term is completed, unless on 
account of ill -health or some other cause beyond his 
control. In this case the liability under sub-para. (2) 
will be as therein stated, but the liability under sub- 
para. (1) will not exceed the cost of passages to the 
United Kingdom. 

439. The officers concerned will be responsible for the whole 
cost of the passages of themselves, their families and servants, 
caused by an exchange outside the command in which they are at 
the time serving, unless carried out solely in the interests of the 

' public service. 

440. Except as provided in paras. 315, 434 (e), 435, and 436, 
officers serving abroad will be liable for the cost of all passages in 
connection with leave. 

A.S.O. or 441. An officer who vacates his position, or is foxmd unsuitable 
tal^offlcer"" ^^^i^^ probation for the A.S.C., or for any army department, is 
on proba- liable for the expense entailed thereby', unless the vacation is due to 
tion. ill-health or some other cause beyond his control. 



119 



Passages 



A.O. 136 



.1911 



Officers' Families and Servants. "Family" 

442. By "family" will be understood the officers wife, his F'^^"^^^'^- 
unmarried daughters or step- daughters residing with and dependent | Qi-duauce 
on him, and his sons or step-sons under 16 years of age. Cases — ^ — 
'.where sons or step-sons over that age suffer from mental or bodily 
infirmity may be submitted for special consideration. 

443. Free cabin accommodation is provided to or from stations Families, 
aabroad, other than India, for officers' families :— g!iTted 

(a) On permanent change of station at the public expense. passage. 

When officers of the West India Regiment are ordered to the West 
(Coast of Africa, the option of a passage to England, with fm-ther 
; passage from England on subsequent change of station, mil be 
laUowed for their famihes. Other officers proceeding to the West 
iCoast of Africa for a three years' tour have the option of passages 
ifor their famihes either when going out for the first or for the second 
\year on the Coast. They are not entitled to passages on both 
coccasions. 

(6) When the officer returns home on retirement after service 
c giving a claim to retired pay or gratuity. 

(c) When the officer proceeds on active service, and when the 
i family is subsequently allowed to rejom him. 

(d) To the United Kingdom when the family is invalided on the 
I recommendation of a medical board or when an officer is invalided, 
i and the medical board recommend that his wife should accompany 
! him as attendant. Re-conveyance to the station abroad wiU not be 
■ granted for the families of officers (except as provided in (e), as 
ttSiey are only entitled to one passage out and home during the 
I officer's tour. 

(e) On return to a station abroad after invaliding, for the families 
of quartermasters, riding-masters, assistant paymasters, district 
officers of R.A., commissaries, deputy commissaries and assistant 

(Commissaries of ordnance, inspectors of ordnance machinery, and 
i inspectors of army schools, if specially sanctioned by the Army 
( Council. 

(/) To the United Kingdom when an officer dies on service abroad. 

(g) When officers are ordered home to join any class or course of 
i instruction for which they -will be seconded. 

(h) When the officer is granted passage under the conditions laid 
( down in para. 437. 

444. With a few exceptions, which are detailed in Indian ^."^"j^^jj^^ 
-Army Regulations, the conditions of para. 443 are applicable to 

; the provision of passages for officers' famihes proceeding to or from 
] India, as follows : — 



Passat^es. 



120 



A.O. 2:ii; 



(iuarter- 

master's'' 
family. 



A.O. 294 



1912 



Families 
must ac- 
company 
th.e officers 
A.O. 136 



1911 



(a) United Kingdom — 

By transport only. In cases where an officer proceeds 
otherwise than by traasjjort, his family will be 
entitled to conveyance by transport at a subse- 
quent date within a year of the officer's embarkation, 
should accommodation be available. 
(h) Mediterranean and other stations — 

(i) By transport or freightship only, if passages will be 
available within 2 months from the date on which 
an officer cmbarkB. 

(ii) When a through passage in a transport or freight- 
ship is not available as at (i), in the case of 
families proceeding to India, packet passage may 
be allowed to a convenient port at which a traa"- 
port or freightship will call en route to India within 
2 months of the officer's embarkation, and vice 
versa in the case of families proceeding from 
India. 

(iii) By packet in cases not covered by (i) or (ii). 

(c) The Government of India will decide when passages are to 
be given under para. 443 (c), each case being treated on 
its merits. 

445. Passages home and out at the public expense will be 
provided for the family of a quartermaster, when accompanj'ing 
him on leave to the United Kingdom from the West Indies or the 
West Coast of Africa, under the conditions specified in the King's 
Regulations. 

446. Over-age sons of the officers enumerated in para. 443 (e) 
who were under 16 years of age when accompanying their parents 
at the public expense to India, or under 14 3'ears of age when 
accompanying their parents at the public expense to stations 
abroad, other than India, may be granted entitled passage 
(including conveyance to the port of embarkation) to the 
United Kingdom from the station where they have become over 
age. 

447. Families must accompany the officers, unless prevented by 
the exigencies of the public service, or by illness or climatic reasons 
certified by a medical officer prior to the embarkation of the husband, 
but provided that the postponement of passage causes no extra 
expense to the public, and that the reasons given for not accom- 
panjdng the officer are considered adequate by the Army Council, 
a family may be granted subsequent passage in the manner con- 
sidered most suitable by the Army Council. Apphcation for such 
deferred passages must be made to the War Office before the 
embarkation of the officer. 

448. The period within which deferred passages will be granted 



121 



Passages. 



will be limited to one year from the date of embarkation of the 
offioer, except in the case of families proc(^eding to the West Coast 
of Africa, when the period will be limited to six months. 

449. Officers proceeding to or from India on permanent duty will officers' 
be allowed passages for European servants as follows : — servants 

Classes 1 to 4, one male servant and, if the officer is married, 
one female servant : the families of other classes, one nurse, if " 
taldng children under 10 years of age. 

450. Officers proceeding on permanent duty to or from stations Other than 
abroad, other than India, will be allowed passages for European 
servants as follows : — 

(a) Classes 1 to 4, three servants (male or female). 

(6) Colonel, with local rank of major-general or brigadier-general, 
two servants (male or female). 

(c) Other classes, a groom, if a charger for wliich the officer is 
entitled to passage is taken, and a personal male servant, if European 
servant allowance may be drawn at the station abroad. 

451 . The f amiUes of officers, except those mentioned in para. Nurse for 
450 (a) and (b), wiU be allowed conveyance for one nurse, if taldng 

any children under 10 years of age, but not in addition to the officer's 
personal male servant referred to in para. 450 (c). 

452. An officer proceeding on medical board leave will, when a Servant 
soldier who is proceeding on the same voyage cannot be assigned to accom-^ 
him, be allowed conveyance for a servant if a special servant is ofj^^g'^r^fii 
considered necessary by the board. When an officer returns frojn sick leave, 
sick leave, passage for a servant will only be granted to him if he 

takes back a civilian servant who accompanied him home under the 
above circumstances. 

453. Officers proceeding in private vessels must pay to the Payment 
owners, before embarkation, the cost of the passages of their families ^"^^j^^g"^" 
and servants, when the families and servants are not entitled to families 
conveyance at the public expense. and ser- 
vants. 



Officers' Horses. 

454. Passages for officers' horses will only be allowed under the Passages 

following circumstances : — 1°^' offl^ei 

horses. 

To an officer, not entitled to a charger at the pubHc expense (see 
para. 604), proceeding, except on temporary duty — 

(a) from a home station to Gibraltar, or Malta, or vice versa ; 

(b) between Gibraltar and Malta ; or 

(c) between ports in the same command. 



Passages. 



122 



A.O. 80!) 
■ 1913 



^A.O. 152 



1912 



The grant of passages is to be limited to the number of horses, 
the officer's own property, which he is keeping ^or military duty, 
within the authorized number, at the time he in notified of his new 
appointment. In cases where there is a difference between the 
number of horses at the old and new stations, the lower number 
only is allowed to be conveyed at the public expense. In the case of 
an officer who is not keeping horses for which he would be entitled 
to passages imder the foregoing portion of this regulation, outward 
passages under (a) will be allowed as a temporary measure and 
until further notice, once during the term of his appointment, for 
the number of horses he is entitled to keep at the new station, on 
production of a certificate from the G.O.C.-in-C. at the station at 
which the officer is appointed, that suitable horses cannot be pur- 
chased locally at a reasonable price, and from the officer that the 
horses are for use as bona fide chargers. On the termination of an 
officer's appointment, the local military authorities have the right 
to purchase such horses at a fair English market price. An officer 
who is in possession, at the time of his appointment, of a less nimiber 
of horses than is required at the new station, may be allowed passages 
under the same conditions for the additional number admissible. 
An officer entitled to a charger at the public expense, will not, in 
any circumstances, be allowed passages for any horses, whether 
supplied at the public expense or privately owned. 

Application for passages required for officers' horses in time of 
public emergency will be specially considered by the Army Council. 



Families 
invalided 
home. 



Appoiuted 
to statious 
abroad. 



Passages 
after tours 
of service 
in certain 
cases. 



Soldiers, Civilian Subordinates, and their Families. 

455. Passages are allowed under the conditionis of para. 435, 
but families invalided home will only be sent back abroad under 
the special sanction of the Army Coimcil, or the Secretary of State 
for India in Council, as the case may be. 

456. Civilian subordinates on appointment from the United 
Kingdom to statioiis abroad will be granted passages at the pubUc 
expense. On quitting their appointments return passages to the 
United Kingdom will similarly be allowed except in cases of 
voluntary resignation. 

457. Passages home and out on furlough (but not travelling 
expenses in the United Kingdom) are granted under the conditions 
specified in the King's Regulations to — 

(a) Warrant officers and N.C.Os. after six years' service abroad. 
{b) European warrant officers and N.C.Os. of the West India 
Regiment ; and 

(c) European warrant officers and N.C.Os. serving on the West 
Coast of Africa. 

The passages may be provided by transport or freight sliip ; but 
not by packet without special War Office authority. 



123 Passage Allowances. 



458. Passages home and out at the pubUc expense will be 
provided for the farail3' of a European warrant officer or N.C.O. p^jj^pj.^o,. 

■when accompanying him on furlough to the United Kingdom from jsr.o.O. on 
tthe Weft Indies or the West Coast of Africa, under the conditions furlougli 
: specified in the King's Regulations. I„dres!^&S 

459. When European soldiers on the married roll are ordered West Coast 
I to the West Coast of Africa, they will be allowed the option of of Af rica, 

1 leaving their families behind ; and such families will be offered ^^""'^ '^^^ 

I passages to the West Indies should the soldiers be afterwards sent taken. 

I there. If the men proceed to the Coast from the West Indies, 

] passages to England will be allowed for their f amihes if desired ; or 

; should the families remain in the West Indies, passages to England 

'will be allowed them in case of then- own illness, or of the death of 

I the soldier. 



II.— PASSAGE ALLOWANCES. 

460. A money allowance in lieu of passage will, be issued to Conditions 
1 an officer in the event of there being no miUtary objection and no of grant. 
(Opportunity of providing passage by a pubhc vessel within a 
1 reasonable time, subject to the following conditions : — 

(a) The officer must certify that it is his intention to engage 
I conveyance in the class of accommodation for which he receives 
• the allowance and to proceed on his journey at once. 

(b) When the allowance is granted for a servant, the officer must 
1 certify that the servant will accompany him all the way. 

(c) In the case of passage from a station abroad, it must be 
i certified by the naval or other officer conducting sea transport 

duties that there will be no public opportunity of providing the 
passage within a reasonable time. 

(d) The amount allowed will usually be that which would be 
payable on a requisition by the military authorities for a passage at 
the cheapest rate for which suitable accommodation by the sea 
route for the whole journey might be provided, and will in no 
circumstances exceed such cost, or the cost of the actual journey to 
be performed. 

(e) When a passage allowance is issued for an officer's family, a 
deduction will be made equal to the messing contribution due under 
para. 463 (6) for the average duration of the voyage by the sea route 
for the whole journey. 

(/) When passages are officially ordered, the British steamship 
lines by which military passengers are sent, convey, free of charge, 
the quantities of baggage allowed by paras. 470 to 472 (see para. 
477). Any expense for sea freight or overland conveyance of 
baggage incun-ed by an officer who receives a passage allowance 
under the conditions of this para, will be inadmissible as a charge 
against the jjublic. 



Messing Contributions. 



124 



General 
officers. 



(g) When the route selected would (including travelling allowance 
and petty expenses on shore chargeable to the public) cost less than 
a direct passage, an imprest should be issued and accounted for at 
the end of the journey. 

(h) Except with the previous sanction of the Army Council, or the 
G.O.C. in the case of officers serving abroad, passage allowance will 
not be issued to enable officers to travel in ships sailing under a 
Foreign flag. 

461. General officers may, upon the termination of their journey, 
claim in addition any extra payment actually made for a reserved 
cabin. 



8 

Allow- 
ances 



89 

Entitled 
passengers 



Mode of 
recovery 



III.— MESSING CONTRIBUTIONS. 

462. Messing contributions are recoverable in certain cases 
from those travelling by sea under War Department or Indian 
authority. The conditions, rates, &c. , are as shown below : 

1. Entitled Passengers. 

463. (a) Officers, members of the Q.A.I.M.N.S., matroas and 
charge nui'ses of military families' hospitals, the families of officers 
enumerated in para. 443 (e), and all 2nd and 3rd class passengers 
will be messed free. 

(6) Officers' families (other than those enumerated in para. 
443 (e) will be required to pay the full cost of their messing. The 
charges now in force are as shown in the footnote to paras. 466 
to 468. 

The charge for the families of officers of the A.V.C., superintending 
inspectors and inspectors of works, and surveyors will, however, 
be limited to lOs. a day. 

464. Recovery will be made as follows : — 

{a) From those travelling in His Majesty's ships and in hired 
transports : — 

Payment will be made before disembarkation. The O.C. 
troops on board a transport will afford the master every 
assistance in recovering the amount due. 
(6) In other cases : — 

(i) For outward and homeward passages instructions will be 

issued by the War Office. 

(ii) For intercolonial passages payment will be made to the 

command paymaster at the place of destination, the 
necessary notification being made by the paymaster 
paying for the passage in order that recovery may be 
secured. 

465. Officers will be required to pay on board for the actual 
quantities of wine, beer, or other extras which they or their families 
may consume except in the case of extras furnished to officers under 
medical treatment for wounds received in action. 



125 



Conveyance of Baggage and Stores. 



2. Indulgence Passengers. 

466. Indulgence passengers will be required to pay the fuU cost 
of messing* and extras supplied on board ship. 

467. (rt) In the case of lirst-class passengers, recovery will be 
effected as at para. 464 (a). 

(b) In the case of 2nd and 3rd class passengers, the full cost of 
rations* for the average duration of the voyage must be recovered 
by the embarkation officers before the passengers are permitted 
:to embai-lf. The amomit received from 2nd class passengers will 
Ibe paid to the master of the transport. That from 3rd class pas- 
•sengers will be paid to the command paymaster, who should report 
I to the War Office the account and voucher in which it will be 
. credited. 

3. India. 

468. Payment for messing and rations by military passengers 
proceeding to and from India are governed by Army Regulations, 
India.* 



Indulgence 
passengers. 

Mode of 
recovei'y. 



To or from 
India. 



Section 14. 



-CONVEYANCE OF BAGGAGE AND 
STORES. 



I. — BAGGAGE AND REGIMENTAL STORES. 

469. The maximum amounts of baggage and regimental stores Maximum 
1 conveyed at the pubUc expense are shown in paras. 470 to 472 amounts. 
; and 474. 



* The daily rates at present recoverable under the Admiralty Transport 
Eegulations and the Army Eegulations, India, from passengers not entitled 
to free messing are as follows : — 



1st Class. 

OfScers and males over 16 years 
Ladies over 16 years 

Children 7 to 16 years 

Childrru 1 to 7 years ... 
Children under 1 year ... 

2nd Class. 

Adults and children over 10 years 

Children 1 to 10 years 

Children under 1 year 

3rd Class. 

Adults and children over 10 years 
Children under 10 years 



s. c 

6 C 

5 € 

4 C 

2 e 

free 



2 6 
1 3 
free 



8 



Allow- 
ances. 



89 



These charges are made for each day on which a dinner meal is provided. 



Conveyance of Baggage and Stores. 



126 



A.O. 19 :) 
1913 



470. 



Personal baggage, Classes 1 to 14. (Sec also para. 477.) 
(fl) On permanent or temporary Huty. 



Pcrmanont fluty. 



Olllcers who 
at, till) stiitiou 

from wliiuli 
tlioy procac'.rl 
w(;ro not in 

quarterH 
funiisliedat 

the public 

expensu.* 





cwt. 


1 


40 


2 


30 


3 


36 


4 


30 




30 


6 


18 


7 


20 


8 


18 


9 


18 


10 


15 


11 


12 


12 


10 


13 


12 


14 


9 



OfRcorR who, at the station 
from which they prooeed, 

wore in quarters furnished 
at tho public oxpeiise.* 



Sea trans- 
port (not 
coastwise). 



Land and 
coastwise 
transport. 



cwt. 



18 
15 
12 
10 
12 
9 



cwt. 



10 
10 
8 
8 
8 
8 



r3 



o 
S 



.'\dditious and 
Deductions. 



cwt. 
10 



(1) Horse Equipment.— 
2 cwt. for the first horse 
for which forage is ad- 
missible, and 1 cwt. for 
others. All officers of 
field or mountain artil- 
lery proceeding to India 
arc allowed conveyance 
for horse equipment as 
follows : — Suljilterns, 
2 cwt., officers above 
that I'auk, 3 cwt. 

(■r) Officers of the R.E., 
Boyal Flying Corps 
(Military Wing) J medi- 
cal officers, chaplains, 
superintending inspec- 
tors and inspectors of 
works, and surve3-ors, 
allowed 2 cwt. extra. 

(3) Veterinary officers, 
inspectors of ordnance 
machinery, insppclors 
of mechanical transport, 
and inspectors of army 
schools, allowed 1 cwt. 
extra. 

(4) The weight taken 
free by^ railway com- 
panies should be de- 
ducted from the weight 
for which conveyance 
at the public expense is 
claimed. 



^ Claims should sliow whether or not tlie officers were in furnished quarters 
at the station from which they proceed. 

f The weiglits in this column apply to periods of detention at home stations 
when an officer is accommodated in camp or quarters, or is placed on tlie 
lodging list. Tliey are not applicable to periods for wliich travelling allow- 
ance is drawn wlien only 1 cwt. (carried free by railway) is alloweil at home, 
but the amounts to he allowed abroad will be, at the discretion of the O.C. the 

Istntion, witliin the limits of tliis coluivm. 
X This conces.sion is to bo limited to officers appointed to the Royal Flying 
Corps for continuous service. 



127 



Conveyance of Baggage and Stores. 



(6) Attending Manceuvres. — In the absence of special instructions, 
the weiglits will be fixed by the G.O.C. within the limits laid down 
for temporary duty. 

(e) When proceeding by sea at the public expense the famihes* 
of officers will be allowed the following weight of baggage but no 
charge for labour, &c., in the docks, or for its conveyance by land or 
between Great Britain and Ireland and the Channel Islands, will 
be admissible, except in tlie case of the families referred to in 
para. 339 : — 



Officer's wife 

Each son or daughter 



5 cwt. 
1 cwt. 



(d) Nothing beyond the quantity carried free is allowed for 
civihan servants. For sea passages 2 cwt. wiU be carried freeJ 
subject to the conditions in (c). | 

(e) The weights stated in (c) will be allowed, both by land and 
sea, on change of station, for the families referred to in para. 339, 
the quantities taken free being deducted from the claim. 

(/) In the case of officers transferred to or from an appointment 
entitling them to carry a greater weight of baggage, the greater 
weight will be allowed. 

471 . Personal baggage. Classes below officers : — 



A.O. 353 
1912 



A.O. 264 



1912 

Personal 
baggage of 
soldiers. 



Class. 



15 



IG 



17. 18, 19 

Families on 
married es- 
tablishment 

Classes 13 to 
20 



Amount. 



cwt. 
31 



U 

for wife. 
J for eaoli 
child over 
3 years. 



Additions and deductions. 



(1) Double quantities allowed in the United 

Kingdom for married N. 0.0s. on taking 
up or qxiitting appointments on the 
permanent staff of the Territorial 
Force, and for their families. 

Extra allowance to schoolmasters and school- 
mistresses for books — 1 cwt. 

Extra allowance to military foremen of 
•works, military mechanists and military 
draughtsmen, and non-commissioned 
officers on probation for these positions 
—1 cwt. 

(2) The weight carried free by railway and 

shipping companies should be deducted 
from the weight for which conveyance 
at the public expense is claimed. 



A.O. 179 
1911 



' See para. 442. 



Conveyance of Baggage and Stores, 



128 



subordl" baggage. Civilian subordinates :— 

nate°s. following will be the maximum weights convej'ed at the 

public expense on change of sta1;ion, unless greater weights are 

specially sanctioned by the Army Council : — 

(a) Temporary civilian clerks of works and draughts - 

A.O. 324 Imen. temporary surveyors' clerks 12 cwt. 

ISl"-^ (b) Barrack wardens, civilian or pensioner office- 
keepers, civihan or pensioner foremen of works, paid 

(pensioner recruiters, master artificers, temporary clerks in 
place of engineer clerics, and such others as may be 
specially authorized 8 

(c) Messengers, artificers, labourers • ... 4 

(d) The weights mentioned above are exclusive of those carried 
free by railway companies. 

Only the rates charged by the railway companies for conveyance 
by goods train, including collection and dehvery, will be admitted. 
Soldiers 473. Soldiers discharged or transferred to the army reserve are 
discharged, ^q,; entitled to any expenses for the conveyance of baggage. 



129 



Conveyance of Baggage and Stores. 



474. Regimental stores : — 



Description of Stores. 



> 
O 



-SB 
o 



M<1 



CO 



t3 



o 

CO 

o 

!>» 
a 

ft 

a 

o 
D 



Regi- 
mental 
stores. 



O 

d 



. Armourer 

-Artificers' tools 

IBand 

r Sea transport (not 
-.r „. , coastwise) 
.Mess, oftcers and coast- 

1^ wise transport... 

Mess, Serjeants' 
Orderly room c 
Recreation room 

Riding-master 

School 

Shoemaker ... ... 

Signalling 

Tailor 

Workshop tools a 

Quartermaster — for regimental 
miscellaneous stores, quarter- 
master's books and stationery, 
and material for repair and 
preservation of equipment, &c. .. 

Clothing and necessaries per man 
of establishment 



c<vt. 

3 

1-2 



n. 



00 

45 

35 
20 
10 



cwt. I cwt. 



cwt 



34e 



lbs. 

nh 



icwt. cwt. 



cwt. 























00 










''5 








9 




(JO 






7 


7 




45 






6 


6 




35 






() 


6 


0 


20 


36 


n 
O 


0 


5 




10 


bb 


od 


1 


1 




\ 




— 1 


l' 


1' 










Hj 


11 


li- 


7i 







4 


4" 


4 


lj' 
0 


46 


= 1 


20/ 


12 


Ul 


22 


Iby 


» 1 


lbs. 


lbs. 


1 lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


19 


lo 


1 17 


12i 


19 


19 



a May be increased up to 12 cwt. for regiments and battalions which are 
in possession of the full number of sets of workshop tools authorized by 
Part I., Equipment Regulations. 

h Oonveyauce of these stores (which should be carried in the A.S.C, 
wagons) will only be allowed when a company moves without its wagons. 
Artificers' tools will not be taken on change of station between England and 
Ireland. 

c 6 cwt. allowed for office books, documents, &c., of a Brigade of E.H.A. 
and R.F.A. 

d For A.O.C. only. 

e For establishment of under 450 men 31 cwt. only allowed. 
/ For mountain batteries 12 cwt. only. 

ff Conveyance of these stores (wliich should be carried in the A.S.C. wagons) 
will only be allowed when a company moves without its wagons. Only con- 
veyance of books and stationery (3 cwt.) will be allowed on change of station 
between England and Ireland. 

h For Household Cavalry 78 lbs. per man. 

i For Highland Regiments 13 lbs. per man I 
;■ 4 cwt. additional for Brigade R.F.A.; for Heavy Battery, E.G. .\. 2^ cwt, 
allowed. 

k 41 cwt. for Headquarters and No. 1 Section, Signal Co., with Division; 
2 cwt. for other sections. 
/ 15 cwt. for Headquarters and No. 1 Section, Signal Co., with Division. 
m h cwt. additional allowed for Brigade, R.F.A. 

(B 10575) V 




14 



6371 



l4 



Cav. 



101 

54 

Infantrv-' 




99 



Conveyance of Baggage and Stores. 



130 



Desoriptiou of Squadron or 
Oompauy Stores. 



O 



02 



o r 
MS 



'''*2 

■*-* r'^ 



C5 



o 
O 



Unit of 
E.E. 



o 

t " 



O 
o 



d 

^■^ 
%< 

o 
D 





cwt. 


cwt. 


cwt. 


cwt. 


cwt. 


cwt. 


cwt. 


cwt. 


Miscellaneous stores and 








• 










stationery 


4 










4 






Lance chests — 


















For Lancer Regiments 


4 






•2 


2 


2 






Arm chests or cases (empty) ... 


4 




■} 






Kits per man, exclusive of what 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lbs. 


lb.s. 


is carried on the person 


50 


50 


37 


50 


37 


37 


50 


37 



^^ole. — The weights carried free by railway and shipping companies should 
be deducted from the total weight for which conveyance at the public expense 
is claimed. Ammunition should not be included in the weight of baggage 
can-ied free by rail. 

Eoad conveyance of kits will be allowed when certified by an officer to be 
uecessaiy. 

(a) The weights in this para, are generally applicable to moves 
on change of station. In cases of movements for temporary duty, 
such as musketry, gun practice, &c., smaller weights only will 
be necessary and the amounts wiU be fixed by the G.O.C. 

(&) Conveyance of arms, accoutrements, harness and saddlery, 
when allowed, will be at the following rates, which are inclusive of 
packing (arms excepted) : — 

Rifle, with sling 

Rifle, with sling, sword bayonet and scabbard 
Cavalry sword and scabbard 
Set of accoutrements : — 

Moujited men 

Dismounted men ... 
Set of saddlery 
Set of packsaddlery 
Double set of harness : — 

Royal Artillery 

.^j-my Service Corps 



lbs. 


oz. 


8 


13 


10 


6 


4 


6* 


10 


8 


14 


0 


80 


0* 


120 


0* 


168 


0* 


224 


0* 



• These entries refer only to spare sets, i.e. sots not belonging to hors.\: 
which are railed. The conveyance of other liaruess and saddlery is included 
in the rates charged for the coTiveyance of the horses. 



131 Conveyance of Baggage and Stores. 

The number on charge of the stores referred to in this para, 
should be certified to, and the necessity for the conveyance by rail 
explained, by the O.C. 

The weight of any empty arm chests (or cases) necessarily 
required in addition to the regulated number in the possession of 
a unit will also be allowed. 

(c) On change of station O.C. units should return to store or hand 
over to incoming units, such articles as they are required to transfer 
by the Equipment Regulations and Clothing Regulations. No 
expense for the conveyance of horse shoes for a unit on change of 
station will be allowed, except for such as may be required on 
arrival at certain places on the line of march. 

475. Officers and soldiers ordered to a new station while on leave Change of 
will be allowed the cost of conveying their baggage from the old station 
station. When sea freight is required, advantage should, if possible, J'J'^y^ °^ 
be taken of public vessels. 

476. Any small personal effects of deceased ofificers and soldiers, Personal 
such as watches, jewellery, photographs, field glasses, revolvers, or effects, 
swords, possessing a special personal interest, reserved by the 
Committee of Adjustment appointed under the Regimental Debts 

Act for transmission to the relatives, may be forwarded at the 
pubUc expense, except in the case of an officer dying at a home 
station whose relatives administer his estate. This does not apply 
to furniture, horses, saddlery, or any other bulky article not disposed 
of by sale, unless in exceptional cases the committee consider that 
special circumstances justify the grant of free cari-iage for any such 
articled which the relatives may wish to have sent to them as a 
personal memento. 

477. Upon embarkation, each cwt. of baggage must be packed Packing: 
within a space of 5 cubic feet ; and the cubic measurement must 1°^' ^^.^ 
be stated on all claims for sea freight. ' 

When ad\ising shipping companies of the quantity of baggage A.O. 324 
to which a passenger is entitled, the amount should be stated in 
hundredweights (not tons) when the company concerned quote 
their allowance by weight, and in cubic feet when the allowance is 
quoted in cubic feet. 

478. The charges by railway for the conveyance of the public pliargesfor 
baggage of troops, comprising personal baggage, stores, arms tl^'o^p'^/^ 
(including guns of batteries of horse, field and mountain artillery), 
ammunition, vehicles on charge of the unit, and necessaries, will 

be at rates not exceeding 2d. a ton a mile. 

The scale of charges given below will apply to field guns and 
military vehicles with their contents accompanjdng mounted 
corps, the troops doing the loading and unloading. The minimum 
charge will be 5s. per truck and minimum weight 1 ton per truck ; 
such guns and vehicles should be entered on the railway warrant : — 



1912 



(B 10575) 



Conveyance of Baggage and Stores. 



182 



Not exceeding 100 miles ... 2d. per ton per mile. 
Above 100 miles and not f l^d. per ton per mile for the 
exceeding 150 miles ...1 whole distance. 

icn 1 flid. per ton per mile for the 

Above 150 miles | /hole distance. 

The charge for any distance up to 100 miles will not exceed the 
charge for 101 miles. 

The charge for any distance up to 150 miles will not exceed the 
charge for 151 miles. 

Bicycles used for military purposes and conveyed unpacked, as 
pubHc baggage accompanied by troops, must be entered on railway 
warrants, and will be charged for at two-thirds the ordinary bicycle 
(accompanied) rate. 

Terminal charges will not be admissible, except in Ireland, and 
then only when the troops cannot assist in loading or unloading. 
Unless the move is by special troop train all such baggage is to 
be sent by goods train, except the quantity carried free by the 
railway company. This does not apply to the guns, vehicles, 
and ammunition of mounted corps proceeding as such, in which 
case the guns, vehicles, and ammunition will usually proceed in 
the same train as the troops. 
Charges for js^.'jq Except when a higher rate is admissible under para. 480 
hidMd-*' the charge for the conveyance of the regulated weights of baggage 
uals. land furniture of detached officers and warrant officers, and for 
A.O. 179 tmarried N.C.Os. taldng up or quitting appointments on the per- 

1911 imanent staff of the Territorial Force, travelling by rail will not 
exceed 2d. a ton a mile in the United Kingdom (in addition to the 
ordinary charge for collection and delivery) ; consigrmients of 
3 cwts. and under will be paid for at the rates charged to the general 
public for " smalls." To secure this rediy;ed rate A.F. P 1904 
will be sent to the railway company when the removal of the 
baggage is arranged (see King's Regulations). 

A.O. 264 I The minimum charge for a weight above 3 cwts. will be that 

1912 I chargeable for a weight of 3 cwts. at the small parcels scale rate. 
Chargesfor 480. When detached officers proceed by railway from one station 
personal another without an interval of leave, the G.O.C. may, in special 

aff^gei-'^ cases, authorize a small quantity of necessary baggage (in excess 
train. of the quantity carried fres by the railway company) to be taken 
by passenger train. The maximum charge for the conveyance of 
such excess baggage in Great Britain and Ireland and by the Unes 
of steamers referred to in para. 410, is two-thirds of the rate 
chargeable to the pubUc. 
Dock 481. The baggage of officers and soldiers travelling on duty is 

AtfT'^^^' exempt from dock tolls or duties ; and such exemption will, in 
all cases, be claimed at the docks as directed in the King's Regu- 
lations : but the cost of labour performed by a dock company's 



133 



Carriage of Stores. 



servants and any expenses of examination of the baggage at the 
Custom House may be charged against the pubhc. 

482. Charges for agency on embarkation or disembarkation are Agency, 
only allowed — 

(«) When baggage, conveyed at the public expense, is necessarily 
sent in a ship in which the officer does not himself proceed. 

(b) When he is unable, through military duty or sickness, to 
look after his baggage, and 

(c) To the extent to which they are covered by a saving of regu- 
lated travelling expenses and allowances. 

483. Charges for warehousing are only admissible to the extent Warehous- 
of any saving for the conveyance of the regulated baggage secured to iug- 

the public by its being warehoused. 

484. Charges for the conveyance of baggage (except in the case Form of 
of individual claims) wiU be detailed on A.F. P 1905. claim. 

485. Claims for the conveyance of baggage will be supported Vouchers, 
by vouchers with separate sub-vouchers for " Paid on " charges. 

If these are not obtainable a statement will be annexed giving Detail, 
particulars of the services for which the charge is made, such as — 

Railway charges for collection — conveyance — delivery. 
Freight. (A separate voucher for this is very necessary.) 
Dock or Custom House charges for labour performed. 

„ „ „ tolls or duties. 

Agency. 
Warehousing. 

486. Charges for the conveyance of baggage will be adjusted Mode of 
in the same manner as other travelling charges. [See paras. 417 adjust- 



II. — Carriage of Stores, Clothing, and Parcels. 



487. Detailed instructions as regards the despatch of stores, Procedure, 
explosives, supplies, &c., are contained in the King's Regulations, 

the Clothing Regulations, and the Regulations for Supply, Transport" 
and Barrack Services. 

488. Carriers' notes will be made payable as follows, viz. : — 



Services. 
(a) *To and from the 

Royal Arsenal. ^ 

Royal Dockyard. | 
Army Medical Stores, r Woolwich. 

Army Veterinary I 

Stores. J 

Army Ordnance EstabUshment, 
Purfleet. 



By WTaoM Payable. 



Carriers' 
notes by 
whom 
payable. 



Assistant Director of 
Military Transport, 
Woolwich Arsenal. 



• See next page. 



Carriage of Stores. 



Services. 
{b)*To and from the 

Army Ordnance Depot, Weedon. 
Chief Ins|3ector Small Arms, 

Enfield Lock. 
Assistant Inspector Small Arms, 
Small Heath, Birmingham. 

(c) Stationery from H.M.S.O., London. 

Medical and Veterinary stores from 
Contractors in London. 

(d) *Clothing to and from the Royal 

Array Clothing Depot, Pimlico, 
S.W. 

(e) From Waltham Abbey and Royal 

Small Arms Factory (not Inspec- 
tion Department), Enfield Lock- 
when the cost of conveyance is 
chargeable to the Ordnance Fac- 
tories Vote. 

Exceftions lo the ahov 



By WHOM Payable. 



1 



r'TransportOfRcer, Weedon 
J 

1 Transport Officer.London 
r District, Kensington 
Barracks, W. 

I Ordnance Officer, 
J R.A.C.D. 

1 

! Superintendents, Wal- 
[> tham Abbey and En- 

I field Lock. 

I 

J 



(/) From To 
Weedon. 

Enfield (Inspec- Woolwich and 
tion Depart- j>Purfleet. 
ment). | Pimlico. 

Birmingham (do.) J 

{Woolwich and 
Purfleet. 
Weedon, &c. 
Pimlico. 
r Woolwich and 

Pimhco } Purfleet. 

L Weedon, &c. 
J- WalthamAbbey 
I and 
Royal Small 
Woolwich ... I Arms Factory 
(not Inspec- 
tion Depart- 
ment). 
.Enfield Lock. 
{g) Such small services as necessarily 
involve cash payments by Con- 
signors or Consignees ; wlien the 
cost is to be borne by Army 
Votes. 



Transport Officer, 
Weedon. 



Transport Officer, Lon- 
don District, Kensing- 
ton Barracks, W. 

Ordnance Officer, 
R.A.C.D. 



Superintendents, Wal- 
tham Abbey and En- 
field Lock. 



Officers commanding. &c. 
I (who will submit their 
y claims on A.F. P 1911 
I to the Transport Officer 
J concerned). 



135 



> Officers Commanding. 



Transport Officer of Con- 
signor's sub-district. 



Y 



(h) Goods suppHed under store and other "I As directed in the condi- 
contracts. J tions of Contract. 

(t) For stores (except as provided in the- 
instructions in the Priced Vocabu- 
lary of Stores), Army Forms and 
Books, &c., supplied on repay- 
ment to units, canteens, &c., also 
the cost of returning the empty 
packages. 

(/) For all other services— including 

conveyance between ports of ship- 
ment and other stations in transit 

to, or from, W.D. and hired ves- 
sels. (The port where stores are 

landed for further conveyance will 

be taken as the consignor's station 

for payment of railway charges.) 
(k) Collection and Delivery Notes. 

When a cartage contractor or other ^ 

local carman, &c., is necessarily 

employed by the A.S.C. (or unit 

concerned, on behalf of the T.O.) 

in the absence of Government 

Transport to convey stores, &c., to 

or from a railway or steamship 

company's premises. 
[l) Demurrage charges incurred locally "1 Transport Officer of Con- 

at consignee's station. J signee's sub-district. 

N.B. — If the railway or steamship company deliver, A.F. G 1030 
wiU not be used, as the cartage will be included with the carriage 
conveyance charges on A.F. P 1911 by the company. 

489. Charges for the carriage of stores and clothing, and of Form of 
parcels sent by rail or carrier, when not incurred on the move of claim 

a regiment or detachment, will be detailed on A.F. P 1911. 

490. War Department stores (other than regimental baggage), Rate for 
when consigned with the prescribed form of order, A.F. G 980 W.D. 
will be charged for at a rate not exceeding 2d. per ton per mile, stores, 
station to station, with a minimum as for 12 miles, plus 2s. per ton 

at each end for terminal accommodation and services other than 
cartage. A consignment may be split up on A.F. G 980 to admit 
of certain items being charged at the public rate, and the balance at 
the Government rate, when by so doing it is cheaper than charging 
the whole at either the Government or the public rate. 

For " returned empties " the rates paid by the general public will 
be payable, except when the mileage rate is cheaper. 



Transport Officer of Con- 
signor's sub-district for 
collections ; of con- 
signee's sub-district for 
deliveries. 



Allow- 
ances 



89 



Carriage of Stores. 



136 



Articles 
excludoil 
from tliL- 
mileage 
rate. 



Owners' 
risk rates. 



Consign- 
ments by 
passenger 
train. 



Consignments of 3 cwt. and under of ordinary stores will, in the 
United Kingdom, be paid for at the rates charged to the general 
public for " smalls." 

The minimum charge for a weight above 3 cwt. will be that 
chargeable for a weight of 3 cwt. at the small parcels scale rate. 

The following articles are excluded from the foregoing arrange- 
ments : — 

(a) Qunpowder or other explosive or combustible stores. 

(6) Cannon or stores for which a sjjecial vehicle is required or 
in respect of which special arrangements are needful for loading or 
unloading — chargeable at the rates payable by the general public. 

(c) Bedding and linen sent from barracks to places where these 
articles are" washed, and returned to barracks — chargeable at the 
rate payable by the general public. 

491. The following stores and other articles of a similar nature 
should, as a rule, be conveyed at owTiers' risks rates when such rates 
are cheaper than military rates : — 

Baths. 

Bedsteads, in bundles. 

Boilers (kitchen or furnace). 

Cisterns, cast-iron. 

Tenders, not packed or in bundles. 

Frying-pans, cast-iron. 

Gas, or oil stoves. 

Grates, ranges or stoves. 

Hollow-ware, cast-iron, nested and packed (including 
kettles, pans, and water-cans, in casks or crates). 
Meters, water. 
Palisades, iron. 
Pipes, iron or steeL 
Pipes, rain-water. 
Pots, cast-iron. 
Stable fittings. 
Tanks, cast-iron. 
Wire ropes (new). 

492. Stores conveyed by passenger train will be charged for at 
one-half the ordinary Railway Clearing House scale of parcel rates 
including delivery within usual limits — minimum charges as for 
1 cwt. at the half-rate. The charges will in no case exceed those made 
to the general public. Such stores will be carried at owner's risk. 



1137 



Field Allowance- 



Section 15.-FIELD ALLOWANCE. 



A.O. 264 



1912 



493. Field allowance at the following daily rates is granted to Bates. 
. officers and warrant officers in aid of the expenses caused by their 
i being placed under canvas, or, when during mobilization, manoeuvres, 
or military training, they are in bivouac or accommodated in war; 
: shelters, temporary hutments, or quarters equipped according to 
I the scales for officers' tents in standing camps, laid down in the 
: Equipment Regulations, Part I. The allowance is not issuable in 
: respect of active service to staff officers in receipt of consolidated 
I rates of pay, nor to other officers paid at the same consolidated rates 
: and under the same conditions : — • 



Rank or Class. 


Rate. 




£ 


s. 


d. 


Commander-in-chief of the forces in the field ... _ 


2 


0 


0 


Class 1, or the commander of au army or group of divisions 


1 


12 


6 




1 


0 


6 


]\ 3 ••• ••• 


0 


1.5 


0 


,, 4 


0 


12 


0 


,> 5 


0 


7 


6 


„ 6 and 9 


0 


4 


6 




0 


G 


0 


„ 8 and 10, and captains temporarily in command of a 








battalion 


0 


4 


0 


„ n 


0 


3 


6 


„ 12 and 13, and lieutenants or 2nd lieutenants temporarily 








in command of a squadron, troop, company, or battery 








(not detachments) 


0 


3 


0 


„ 14 


0 


2 


6 


15 


0 


1 


0 



494. In the case of training or manoeuvres involving change Training 
of camps the daily rate of field allowance for classes 1 to 14 will/'"" ™'^°" 
I be increased by Qd. for such period, not exceeding 31 days, as the ^ q 32^^ 
I allowance is drawn. 



1911 



495. Field allowance will be issued for each day or part of a day Ordinary 
during which an officer or warrant officer has been under canvas, ji^sues. 
&c. (see para. 493), but will not be admissible concurrently with « j 
nightly rate of travelling allowance. It will, as a rule, be issued ^^^^ 



1 in arrear. 



(B 10576) 



y 3 



Field Allowance. 



138 



Issues iu 
advance. 



496. Under the following circumstances field allowance may be 
issued in advance : — 



Oircumstanoos. 



(rt) When eucaiiipod 
for oxtonsivc maiioiu- 
vres iu the United 
Kingdom. 

(i) When ordered on 
service with troops 
engaged in military 
operations in the field 
in time of war or in- 
surrection (actual or 
apjjrehended}. 



Period and autliority. 



Commencing from. 



The Array Council will 
determine wlictber an ad- 
vance is to be made, and, 
if so, for what period, not 
exceeding .31 days. 
The Army Council will 
determine whether an ad- 
vance is to be made, and 
if so, for what period, not 
exceeding 182 days. Offi- 
cers in chief command at 
stations abroad maj- 
authorize advances for 
periods not exceeding 31 
days, immediatelj'- report- 
ing their action. 



Date of encampment. 



(1) From date of em- 
barkation from this 
country ; or 

(2) From date of local 
order to the troops to 
take the field ; or 

(3) If subsequently 
ordered to join such 
troops, from the date 
of quitting the station 
to do so. 



Adjust- 
ment on 
promotion, 
&c., during 
advance 
period. 



Form of 
claim. 
114 
Returns 
1824. 



J 



A second advance will not, in any case, be made for the same 
service, nor will it be made within twelve months for a second 
service of the same kind. After the expiration of the advance 
period, field allowance will be issued in arrear. No recovery will 
be made of any portion of an advance of field allowance, nor will 
such advance preclude those to whom it has been paid from 
receiving local or travelling allowances other\nse admissible. 

497. No alteration in an advance will be made on account of 
promotion or appointment, but the difference between the original 
and any increased rate mil be paid in arrear for days of actual 
encampment, and an officer serving in the field, if promoted or 
appointed to a position carrying a higher rate of field allowance, 
may receive such rate from the date (not earlier than that of pro- 
motion or appointment) from which he actually performs the 
duties. 

498. Claims for field allowance will be prepared upon A.F. 0 l(i28, 
duly completed and vouched, and in the case of home stations will 
be sent direct to paymasters by units. 



139 



Cleaning Allowances. 



Section 16.-ALL0WANCE FOR CLEANING 
CHAPELS, OFFICES, &c. 



1 0 

1 10 

2 0 



I.— CHAPELS, SCHOOLS AND PHARMACIES. 

499. An allowance covering the purchase of soap, blacklead, 
dusters, &c., will be issued for cleaning mihtary chapels, garrison 
(including chapel and detachment) schools, and pharmacies. The 
allowance will be exclusive of the articles mentioned in the schedules 
of barrack furniture, and mil be at the following yearly rates : — 

£ s. 

(a) For each church, chapel, or chapel school 1 10 

(b) For each garrison school, other than a chapel school : — 

(i) With 1 or 2 rooms 0 12 

(ii) „ 3 „ 4 „ 

(iii) „ 5 „ 6 „ 

(iv) „ over 6 rooms 

Only school, class or teachers' rooms are to be reckoned. 

(c) An allowance not exceeding that under (b) may be 

admitted for detachment schools on the authority 
of the G.O.C. 

(d) For each pharmacy ... ... ... ... ... 0 12 

The allowance will be admissible whether an orderly is employed 
or not, and no detail of expenditure will be required. The amount 
should be claimed as directed in para. 504 for the allowance for 
cleaning offices. 

The allowance will be drawn, in the case of churches and chapels, 
by the chaplain or officiating clergyman ; in the case of garrison 
(including chapel and detachment) schools, by the O.C. at the 
station : and in the case of pharmacies, by the veterinary officer 
in charge. 

500. When a special allowance is required on account of the Special 
exceptional construction of the building, or from other causes, the ''^'■s^- 
G.O.C. may fix at his discretion a rate of allowance differing from 

that laid down in para. 499, his authority in original being attached 
as a voucher in support of the first charge in the accoimts. 



II.— OFFICES. 

501. A money allowance for cleaning and other petty office 
expenses will be issued for offices and officers' lecture rooms furnished 
by the public which are not provided for in para. 676. 

(B 10575) r ^ 



Wheu 
granted. 
• 8 



Allow- 
ances 



Cleaning Allowances. 



140 



Bates 

A.O. 210 

1912 



Special 
rate. 



Claims, 
charges, 
and mode 
of expend- 
ing. 
A.O. 127 
1913 



502. The allowance will, as a rule, be issued at the following 
rates : — 

Yearly. 

(a) When the office consists of one room £1 

When the office consists of more than one room, 

per room ... ... ... ... ... ]5s. 

provided that for no office will a sum in excess of 
£4 be allowed unless the G.O.C. is satisfied that £4 
will not cover the necessary expenditure, in which 
case he may authorize such additional sum for offices 
with rooms in excess of 5 as he considers necessary, 
within a total of 155. for each room. 

(b) When no labourer is employed in the department, or there 
is no messenger, office keeper, or orderly, paid or unpaid, employed 
in an office for which the foregoing allowance is charged, an addition 
to the above at the rate of £2 10s. a year for each room will be 
allowed. This allowance is only applicable to an office in a hired 
house or in an unoccupied barrack, and will not in any circumstances 
be issuable to R.E. or A.S.C. offices where no R.E. or A.S.C. officer, 
respectively, is stationed. 

503. When a special allowance is required on account of the 
exceptional construction of the office, or from other causes, the 
matter will be dealt -vvith as in para. 500. 

504. The allowance wiU be claimed for the whole financial year 
,in the month of May, upon A.F. P 1939, and wUl be paid and 
I charged in the accounts of the command paymaster. Wlien a 

new office is established, a proportion of the yearly allowance will 
be claimed for the remainder of the financial year. The allowance, 
though drawn for the whole year in one sum, should be expended 
in quarterly instalments. 



Ill .—DISINFECTANTS . 

How to be 505. QuickUme for the purification of ashpits and surface drains 
obtained, will be supplied by the officer i/c barracks, on indent from the CO., 
on A.F. F 732, and will be purchased if possible from the R.E. 
contractor. Chloride of lime will be used for disinfecting latrines 
and urinals. The disinfectant will be supplied by the officer i/c 
barracks on the indent of the CO., countersigned by the medical 
officer. 



Ul 



Servant Allowance. 



Section 17.-SERVANT ALLOWANCE. 



506. Servant allowance is granted, as laid down in the following Purpose of 
paras., to assist officers, in the cases therein mentioned, towards alluwauce. 
the cost of maintaining civilian personal servants and grooms. 

I. —EUROPE AN SERVANTS. 

1. Staff, Medical, Veterinary, and Departmental Officers. 

*507. The number of servants for whom an allowance may be Staff, 
drawn by staff, medical, veterinary, and departmental officers medical, 
while actually employed upon their duties at home or aliroad, and Jj^^'^^gp^i-'tl 
not receiving any rate of pay or allowance which includes a provision mental— 
for servants, will not exceed — number 

In the case of an officer of class 1 or 2 3 ^^^Y^M^^g 

In the case of an officer of class 3 or 4 ... ... ... 2 

In the case of officers of a lower class ... ... ... 1 

This rule will not apply to certain stations abroad for which 
provision is made in paras. 526 to 533. 

508. Staff, medical, veterinary, and departmental officers, when Additional 
mounted, are, under the King's Regulations, allowed as an indulgence soldier 
the ser-vices of one soldier (when available) over and above the servant, 
numbers of European servants for whom an allowance is granted 

in para. 507. Under no circumstances, however, will a money 
allowance in lieu of this extra servant be admissible if the services 
of a soldier are not available. 

509. The rate of servant allowance will be Is. a day at home, Kates, 
and Is. 6d. a day at a station abroad and on passage to or from a 
station abroad (subject to the limitations of para. 510) in lieu of 
each servant specified in para. 507, and will be issued monthly in 
arrear. When during active- operations abroad rations in kind are 
issued to servants, the rate of servant allowance will be reduced to 

Is. a day for each servant. 

510. Servant allowance will not be issued for the period of a During 
voyage on packets or hired transports to an officer hot accompanied voyages, 
by his civilian servant, except : — 

(a) When the officer is not entitled to passage at the public 
expense, or 

(b) When he is proceeding on board ship on temporary duty 
within the limits of a command. 



* A staff oificer, in receipt of pay at a consolidated rate which iuchidos an 
allowance for male servauts, is entitled to exemption from licence duty in 
respect of civilian male servants kept by him within the authorized limits. 

A certificate of exemption has been prepared (A.F. 0 1824), and each 
officer concerned should be furnished with the certificate, in order that it 
may be produced for inspection when desired by officials of thp County 
Council. 



Servant Allowance. 



142 



Leave. 



A.O. 288 



1911 
Sick leave. 



Death of 
officer. 



Rate dur- 
ing leave 
from 
abroad. 



511. A staff, medical, veterinary or departmental officer who is 
in receipt of servant allowance may continue to draw it during the 
regulated period of ordinary leave of absence for which he is eligible 
to receive full pay under Article 194 or 471 of the Pay Warrant, 
and during any excess period of absence on account of sickness 
at his station for which he is granted full pay. 

512. Servant allowance may be drawn by .a medical, veterinary 
or departmental officer, if previously in receipt thereof, for the 
period during which he may continue to receive full pay during 
absence on sick leave on the recommendation of a medical board. 

513. On the decease of an officer while on full pay, the allowance 
for a groom or grooms may be continued for such period, if any, 
as forage or the allowance in lieu thereof is continued under 
para. 155. 

514. The higher rate of Is. Qd. a day given at stations abroad 
will be allowed during the regulated leave of absence to tho.se 
officers only who may continue to be borne on the strength of a 
station abroad. In no case, however, will this rate be admissible 
for a longer period of leavp than six months. 



2. Regimental Officers. 



General re- 
strictions. 
A.O. 173 
1914 



A.O. 173 



1914 



Students 
at Staff 
College. 
8 

Allow- 
ances 
89 



515. No regimental officer, except an O.C. a company in a battalion 
of foot guards or infantry of the line as stated in para. 516, an officer 
who is a student at the Staff College, or an officer of the R.E. or 
A.S.C., or a district officer of the R.A., or an adjutant of the Irish 
Horse, King Edward's Horse, or territorial force, will be permitted 
to draw the money allowance in lieu of servants, other than non- 
European servants, vmless in very exceptional cases the authority 
of the G.O.C., who will satisfy himself that a soldier ser\'ant camiot 
be supplied, has been previously obtained. Temporary absences 
from quarters will not be regarded as justifjdng the money allowance. 

516. An O.C. a company in a battalion of foot guards and of the 
infantry of the line who employs a groom will receive an allowance 
at the rate of "25. Qd. a week. 

When the company commander is temporarily absent and his 
horse is left to be employed on the public ser^nce the allowance 
may be continued on the understanding that the officer will be 
responsible for the horse being groomed. In other cases the allow- 
ance will be paid to the officer temporarily in command of the 
company. 

517. An officer who is a student at the Staff College will be 
granted £55 15s. a year to cover servant and groom allowance 
and other incidental expenses. This allowance may be issued 
after an officer ceases to serve as a student, for the period and under 
the conditions prescribed in para. 155. 



143 



Servant Allowance. 



518. Officers of the R.E. will, if they do not employ soldier r.e. 
servants, be granted an allowance at the rate laid down in para. 509 

for the following number of servants : — 

(a) Regimental field officers above the rank of major ... 2 

(b) Officers (except adjutants of the special reserve, or of 
the territorial force) not above the rank of major, if in 
possession of a horse for which they are duly authorized to 
draw forage or the allowance in lieu 2 

(c) Other officers 1 

The condition in (b) of possessuig a horse will be waived for a 
period not exceeding a month, when the officer changes his station, 
provided he continues to keep the second servant. 

519. Mounted officers of R.E. who are entitled by their rank to Mounted 
an allowance for two servants may employ a soldier servant instead officer, 
of receiving the allowance for the second servant. 

520. The servant allowance of R.E. officers will be issued under 

Limitation 

the hmitations apphcable to the grant of engineer pay, as laid down in R.E. 
in the Pay Warrant ; but the allowance for a second servant imder 
para. 518 (6) will not be admissible during absence on leave except 
when forage allowance is issued to the officer under the conditions 
detailed in para. 151 . 

521. Whenever an engineer mess is estabhshed with not less Mess 
than six actual dining members of the corps and a soldier is not servants, 
employed as a mess servant, an allowance in heu of a mess servant 

may be drawn at the rate of Is. 6rf. a day, except at the stations 
named in para. 527, where the allowance will be at the rates specified 
in that para. The allowance will not be issued for more than one 
servant, nor for any period during which there may be less than six 
dining members, without the special sanction of the Army Council. 

522. Officers of the A.S.C. will be granted servant allowance at a.S.O. 
the rates and under the regulations apphcable to staff officers. 

523. District officers of the R.A. not employing soldier servants District 
will be granted an allowance at the rate laid down in para. 509 for ^^""^ 
one servant. This allowance will be issued under the hmitations 
applicable to the grant of armament pay as laid down in the Pay 
Warrant. 

524. Adjutants of the Irish Horse, King Edward's Horse, or Adjutants 
territorial force will be granted an allowance of Is. a day for one °f I'-F-, &c. 
servant, and may continue to draw such allowance during leave 

of absence for a period not exceeding 61 days in each year. 

525. Servant allowance for the period of a voyage will be issued During 
subject to the provisions of para. 510. voyages. 



144 



II.— NON-EUROPEAN SERVANTS. 



Foreign 
Statious. 1 
Kutnber of 
porsonal 
servants 
and 

grooms. 
8 

Allow- 
ances 



91 



Staff, Departmental, or Regimented Officers. 

526. Officers while actually serving in Jamaica, Mauritiuij, North 
China, Hong Kong, Straits Settlements, Ceylon, Egj'pt, or at 
stations on the West Coast of Africa, will receive an allowance for 
the hire and maintenance of the following number of non-European 
male personal servants and grooms. The number of grooms in 
respect of whom the allowance may be drawTi will not exceed the 
number of horses for which the officer is entitled to forage and will 
be liable to reduction if an officer does not actually keep the number 
of horses allowed for the performance of his public duty. At 
Ceylon, North China, Hong Kong, Mauritius, and the Straits 
Settlements the allowance for a groom will be a4Diissible for each 
horse allowed and kept : — 

Personal ' 
Class, Servants. Grooms. 



1 
2 
3 
4 

5 

7 and 8 
9 and 10 
11 and 12 
13 and 14 



3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 



4 
3 
3 
2 
2 

1 
1 



Total. 
7 
6 
5 
4 
4 
2 
2 
1 
1 



Eates. 



Leave from 
West Coast 
of Africa. 



Leave. 



527. The rate of allowance for each servant or groom will be Is. 
a day at stations on the West Coast of Africa, 80 cents a day at 
Mauritius and Ceylon, and 35 cents a day at North China "and 
Hong Kong. At the Straits Settlements the rates will be 35 cents 
for a personal servant and 30 cents for a groom. At the other 
stations specified in para. 526 the rate will be Is. 6d. a daj- for each 
servant or groom. The last-named rate will be reduced to Is. 
when rations in kind are drawn for the servants during active 
operations. 

528. Officers on leave after a tour of service on the West Coast of 
Africa are entitled to servant allowance for the same periods foi 
which lodging money is admissible as laid down in para. 291 . They 
are also entitled to it when allowed to proceed to the Canary Islands 
or Madeira. In both these cases the allowance will be issuable at 
the rate of Is. a day. 

529. Officers in receipt of non-European servant allowance may 
continue to draw it when absent from their stations on leave of 
absence for periods not exceeding those allowed in the case of staff 
officers in the Pay Warrant, provided that they continue on the 
strength of the command, and that they have not been relieved of 
duty on the firrival of their successor. 



i 



J 45 Mess Allowance. 



530. If the public duties of an officer for whom no provision is othor 
made in para. 526 for a groom, necessitate his keeping a horse, he officerfo- a 
may draw the allowance for a groom, in addition to that for a ^ ^^P^ o 
personal servant. 

531. The allowance for a groom may be drawn by an officer During 
while on leave from a station at which non-European servant leave when 
allowance is granted whenever forage allowance is issuable under j'^/^.^^^'^ 
the conditions detailed in para. 151. station. 

532. Officers belonging to the West India Regiment will not ^vogt India 
receive the money allowance in Ueu of servants if any non-European Eegiment. 
soldiers of their corps are present at the same station. 

533. Non-European servant allowance for the period of a voyage During 
wili be issued subject to the provisions of para. 510. voyages. 



Section 18.-ALL0WANCE IN AID OF OFFICERS' 
MESS EXPENSES. 



534. Mess allowance is granted in aid of the maintenance of Object of 
regimental messes so as to enable every officer to become a member SranU 

of the mess. Except the expense of a reasonable supply of mess 
hardware and utensils, the whole sum received from the pubUc 
should be apphed to the reduction of the daily expenses of the mess, 
and for the comfort and accommodation exclusively of the officers, 
and more particularly of the junior officers, who attend it. 

535. Mess allowance is granted at all stations at home and stations 
abroad, except India, provided a mess be actually established. The where 
aUowance to individual officers is issuable without the requirement granted. 
Df a certificate that the officer belongs to a mess. 

536. Mess allowance will be issued at the following rates : — Bates 

Yearly. 
£ 

For each squadron of Household Cavah-y 48 

For each regiment of cavalry of the line 172 

For each cavalry depot at home 40 

For each battery of Horse, Field, and Mountain Artillery 

and the riding estabUshment 36 

For each service company of Garrison Artillery 36 

With an addition of £4 10s. a year for each officer 
in excess of five on the establishment of the company. 
For each dopot of Horse, Field, Mountain, and Garrison 

Artillerj- ... ,,. „, ..„ SO 



Mess Allowance. 



146 



103 



Misc. 



189 
48 



Infantry 



591 
103 
Infantry 



399 
A.O. 198 
1911 
A.O. 52 
1913 



103 



Misc. 



197 
A.O. 18 



1913 



Foot 

Guards in 
LonrJou. 

103 

Infantry 
399 



For each company of the Royal Malta Artillery 
For each aeroplane squadron... 



Yearlv. 
£" 
... 24 
... 120 



For the Guards' Depot 60 

For each company of foot guards or infantry of the line 48 
For the regular establishment of the special reserve as follows: — 

Each reserve battalion other than extra reserve battalions 55 
For each company of the West India Regiment 36 

(For each company of the West African Regiment 24 
For each officer seconded for service at the Cavalry School, 
the Camel Corps School, or with the Army Signal Service 6 
For each armament officer ... ... ... ... ... 6 

For each officer below the rank of major (other than an 
adjutant of the special reserve or territorial force) who 
belongs to the R.E. or A.S.C., or who is a district officer, 
or an adjutant of R. A. ... ... ... ... ... 6 

For each battery, squadron, or company officer (including 
officers serving as adjutants of the special reserve or 
territorial force) who may be unposted and attached for 
duty to the Ordnance College, the School of Gunnery, 
the School of Musketry, or the Staff College, or who may 
be attached for instruction to a battery or company of 
R.A., and not borne on the strength of a battery, 
squadron, or company ... ... ... ... ... 6 

For each officer seconded for service with the Royal Flying 
Corps (military wing), not on the establishment of a 
squadron and not in receipt of a consolidated rate of 

pay ■ ... 6 

For each officer (naval or military) holding the appoint- 
ment of instructor on the staff of the Central Flying 

School 6 

For each adjutant of the special reserve or territorial 

force while imder instruction at the Army Signal School 6 
For the adjutant and the quartermaster, School of Gunnery 6 
For an officer of the regular forces holding the appoint- 
ment of adjutant or quartermaster of the King's Own 
Malta Regiment of Militia ... ... ... ... ... 6 

For an officer of the regular forces holding the appoint- 
ment of commandant and adjutant of the Bermuda 
Militia Artillery (in addition to the daily allowance 

during training) ... ... ... ... 6 

537. In the case of battahons of Foot Guards stationed in London, 
the issue of mess allowance will be hmited to two companies doing 
duty at the Tower. 



14? 



Mess Allowance. 



538 Whenever an officer, not above the regimental rank of Detached 
major' is detached from his regiment, battahon, division, or corps, officers, 
and becomes a member of any other mess, he will be entitled to 
receive from his own corps a portion^of the regulated allowance, 
calculated at the yearly rate of £6, which wiU be paid in aid of the 

mess he has joined. If his regiment or corps is serving where mess 
allowance is not issuable, the aUowance will be paid by the pubhc. 
In the case of infantry regiments, an officer who is posted to the 
battahon serving abroad is not a detached officer withm the 
meaning of this para, for any period during which he is temporarily 
attached to the home battalion or regular establishment of a reserve 

battalion. • x i. t. * 

539 Each officer attached to the local companies of the K..A., Attachedto 
not above the regimental rank of major, will be entitled to mess ^^^^l^^^^' 
allowance at the yearly rate of £6. j 

540. Individual mess allowance may be continued to an oliicer r)uring 
whilst on leave of absence during such period as he may continue jleave^of 
in receipt of regimental pay. ' 

Misc. 



97 

541. Mess allowance is not admissible when officers are travelling 

Officers at 

at the pubhc expense on board ship, except when on coastwise sea. 
passages between ports in the United Kingdom. 

542. Whenever regimental messes are closed for periodical repairs dosing of 
or other necessary reason, arraingements will be made for temporary [messes, 
accommodation in the manner mdicated in paras. 295 to 301. 

543. Officers of the regular army who are employed regimentally wben 

in camp at the traming (mcluding recruits musketry) of the special employed 
reserve, territorial force units, and contingents of the officers trainmg '^^^P- 
corps^ will be entitled to an allowance in aid of mess at the rate of 
4s. a day. 

The allowance will be drawn through the accounts of units to 
which the officers are attached. 

544. A sf-ecial mess allowance of £4000 a year will be granted St. James's 
for the mess of the officers of the Kmg's Guard at St. James's Palace, j^^yj^ ™ 
and a similar aUowance not exceeding £800 a year for the mess of oastle. 
the officers of the Castle Guard at Dubhn. 

545. The following special yearly allowances, which will be held 

to cover the contributions of officers for whom no mess aUowance is ^^^^"s^^Qe. 

specificg-Uy provided, wiU be granted: — buryness, 
£350 for the R.A. mess at Woolwich. and E.E. at 

£250 for the R.A. mess at Shoeburyness. Chatham. 
£100 for the R.E. mess at Chatham. 



148 



Section 19.-INDEMNIFICATI0N FOR LOSSES. 



1. General Reg^ulations. 

I'nnioso of 546. Indemnification for losses is granted solely for the purpose 
oatim!" °^ enabling the claimant to re-equip himself for service according to 
the scale of equipment deemed necessary for the performance of his 
duties and will not be extended to the representatives of a deceased 
officer or man in the absence of proof that the deceased had incurred 
expense for that purpose. It covers military risks only, and not the 
ordinary risks of civil life for which insurance should be effected. 
Limit. 547, The grant of indemnification is strictly hmited to cases in 

which it is clearly jDroved that : — 

(a) The loss was altogether unavoidable and beyond the 

control of the individual who incurred it, of his represen- 
tative, or of the unit to which he belongs. 

(b) The articles or animals were placed, under the sanction 

of proper authority, in the situation in which the loss 
occurred. 

(c) Every exertion was made to prevent the loss, and 

(d) Any orders for the destruction of articles or animals were 

issued by competent authority, and carried into efifect 
with all possible promptitude, 
admitted"' indemnification will be admitted in cases :— 

'^'^ ™ ■ (a) Where the subject of the loss is either : — 

(i) Private property not forming part of the claimant's 
authorized mihtary equipment or necessary to 
him for the discharge of his pubHc duties, or 
. (ii) Baggage or articles of equipment sent by the 
claimant for his own convenience in a vessel by 
which he is not a passenger, including baggage 
conveyed under para. 475. 
(6) Where the loss aiises by reason of : — 

(i) Desertion, or 

(ii) The improper paclcing of articles, or their being 
placed or left in improper situations, or 

(iii) Fire occasioned by the use of mineral oil of flash- 
ing point lower than 100° Fahrenheit. 

(c) Where the claimant has lost equipment taken by him 

on leave of absence, except in the case of sick leave or 
under si^ecial circumstances. 

(d) Where the claimant is entitled to compensation from any 

other som-ce. (If, however, the claimant makes apphca- 
tion without delay to the O.C. on the spot, a board will 
be convened to afford him every possible assistance in 
substantiating his claim to compensation from the 



149 Indemnification for Losses. 



parties responsible, by making the necessary enquiries 
and obtaining proper documents to prove the facts of 
the case.) 

549. No expenses in connection with injuries or damage caused 

to or by a privately-owned motor vehicle, when used on the public ^j^j^j.^ 
-service {see paragraphs 386 to 393) will be admitted as a charge 
. against the public, as the onus of insurance against such risks rests ^ ^ 
tupon the owner of the vehicle, nor will compensation be admitted 1 — 
tfor wear and tear of tyres due to bad roads, &c., or to any other! 

cause. * I 

550. Officers and soldiers should protect themselves by insurance, Xusurance. 
'.when possible, against losses falhng under (a) of para. 548 ; but the 

cost of such insurance will not be admissible as a charge against 
;the pubhc. 



2. Cases in which Indemnification may ba granted. 

551. Subject to the paras. 546 to 550 and to the special rules 
llaid down in paras, 553 to 561, indemnification may be granted, in * 
;the case of equipment and necessary property generally, for losses 
lincurred : — 

(ffl) during active service or while the claimant was proceed- 
ing on or returning from active service ; 

(b) by ship-wreck or by casualties on board ship occasioned 

by storms or stress of weather ; 

(c) by accidental fire ; 

(d) by the destruction of, or by theft from, a public store ; 

(e) by the destruction of property to prevent its falling into 

the hands of the enemy or to prevent the spreading of an 
infectious or contagious disorder ; provided that, in the 
case of horses destroyed on the latter ground, proof is 
forthcoming that there was danger of infection to horses 
which were the property of the public ; 
and (/) in the case of horses only, for losses incurred in any of 
the following circumstances, viz. : — 

(i) death or destruction in consequence of " horse 

siclmess " in Africa, or of " loin disease." 

(ii) unavoidable destruction in consequence of disease 

clearly proved to have been contracted : — 

(1) from government horses or mules, 
or (2) in infected billets, 

or (3) through their having been placed, owing 
to the exigencies of the ser\ace, under 
exceptionally unsanitary conditions (such 
as, e.g., being crowded on board ship, or 
being battened down under hatches in 
a storm). 



Indemnification for Losses. 



150 



(iii) death in consequence of accident or disease con- 

tracted on board ship, provided tlie animal 
was in sound health when embarked ; 

(iv) death or unavoidable destruction in consequence 

of accidental injuries not arising from any 
internal disorder, and received while the 
animal was : — 

(1) being used on the public service, or 

(2) in transit or on the march (either from one 

station to another or otherwise) in 
connection with public duty, or 

(3) for pubbc reasons picketed in the open or 

temporarily stabled away from govern- 
ment stables or from the stable for which 
the officer was drawing stable allowance. 
Exception- 552. In the case of losses from exceptional causes not foreseen in 
al cases. these regulations, the Army Council may on the circumstances being 
specially represented to them exercise their discretion in awarding 
indemnification. 

3. Special Rules. 

(1) Officers' and Warrant Officers' Equipment, dsc. 

553. The maximum aggregate values of the full equipment of 
officers and warrant officers are laid down in schedules A. and B. 
on pages 153 to 160. The G.O.C. may authorize the issue of 
indemnification for lost articles of kit or equipment, provided that 
the total amounts specified in those schedules are not exceeded. 

554. In estimating the amount of indemnification to be granted 
regard will be had (a) to the equipment prescribed by regulation, of 
such extension or restriction thereof as maj' have been authorized 
by the G.O.C. according to the nature of the service on which the 
claimant was employed at the time of the loss, and (6) to the abate- 
ment proper to be made from the full cost of lost articles of such 
equipment in respect of depreciation by wear and tear. 

555. Iiademnification for the loss of professional books and 
instruments or of barrack furniture, not the property of the govern- 
ment, necessarily in the possession of officers, will be admitted to 
such reasonable extent as the G.O.C. may decide according to the 
nature of the service on which the claimant was employed at the 
time of the loss. The rates and quantities laid down for officers' 
quarters furnished at the public expense will not be exceeded 
in assessing compensation for losses of furniture, the private property 
of officers. 

(2) Horses. 

Horses— 556. Indemnification mil only be granted for horses which are 
amount necessarily kept for militarv purposes within the fimits laid down 
awarded ^^g^^g^^ i25 to 146. 



Values of 
equipment 



How 

estimated. 



Books, 
instru- 
ments, &c. 



151 



Indemnification for Losses. 



It wdll be limited to the actual cost of the horse, less any 
ciation in value at the time of the loss, and will in no case 
the following rates : — 



General officer 
Other staff officers 

Household Cavalry 



r first charger 
X second charger 

f first charger 
I second charger 



depre- 
exceed 

£ 

100 
80 
70 
80 
70 



Cavalry of the Line 

R.A. 

R.E. 

Infantry 

A.S.C. 



'private horses in excess of the 
number of chargers obtainable 

I under para. 604 70 

-J private horses usedl The cost of 
under para. 617 I a public 
in lieu of pubHc [ charger. 
^ chargers. J 

R.A.M.C. r officers in Class 7 or any higher 

A.V.C. J class 70 

Departmental Corps [ officers below Class 7 60 

557. An officer who loses under any of the circumstances specified Private 
in para. 551 a private horse, which at the time of the loss was ^lo^se. 
necessarily kept for military purposes, may, if the animal is actually 
replaced by a private horse, be allowed compensation at the rates 
specified in para. 556. 

558. If for adequate reasons the horse is not replaced, com- When not 
pensation not exceeding the maximum local current rates for replaced, 
remounts may be allowed ; and in the event of the officer dying 

before replacement has been effected such compensation may be 
credited to his estate. 

(3) Money. 

559. No claim will be admitted on account of the loss of money Losses of 
which is the private property of individuals, but in special cases, money, 
where pubhc money which has been regularly received by individuals 

and has unavoidably remained in their hands, has been lost on 
service, application for indemnification may be made to the War 
Office on A.F. 1787 with a view to the same being submitted for 
the consideration of the Treasury. The G.O.C. is authorized, 
however, except in cases of theft or fraud, to write off losses not 
exceeding £20 in commands in which there is a local auditor, and 
not exceeding £5 in other commands. Losses by theft if under 
£1 may also in certain cases be dealt with locally (see King's 
Regulatioas). ° 
(4) Mess and Band Property. 

560. In the case of the loss of necessary articles of mess or band Mess and 

property, not replaceable from store, indemnification may, if the ^^^^ . 

J, property. 



152 



circumstances appear to justify it, be granted to such extent as the 
G.O.C. in accordance with the general instructionfi issued from time 
to time by the War Office may decide. 

(5) Properly of Soldiers' Families. 

Losses by 561. Indemnification is not usually granted on account of losscij 
kmilTes sustained by soldiers' families, but in exceptional circumstances, 
where the loss of necessary articles is unavoidably sustained owing 
to the conditions of army service, a special payment may, with 
the previous sanction of the G.O.C, be made to enable the articles 
to be replaced. 



4. Procedure in regard to Claims. 



Claims. 



Claims, 
submis- 
sion of. 



Investiga- 
tion of 
claims. 



Proceed- 
ings of 
board — 
how dealt 
■with. 



562. A claim for indemnification for loss must be preferred 
within one month from the date of the loss. Neglect to comply 
with this rule will entail the rejection of the claim, unless the 
claimant can prove that he was unavoidably prevented from making 
his claim earlier. 

563. Claims for horses lost or destroyed will be submitted on 
A.F. O 1785 or 1786 (the latter form being used for claims made 
under para. 551 (e) : claims for losses of pubhc money, on A.F. 
0 1787 ; and other claims on A.F. O 1784. In each case the claim 
will be submitted in duplicate, and the claimant will specify the 
several articles lost, certifying upon honour, according to the best 
of his judgment and belief, the actual price of ea<;h article and its 
value at the time of the loss. 

564. Every claim arising out of losses will be investigated with 
all convenient despatch by a board of officers, who will be guided 
by the principles laid down in these regulations and will require the 
several certificates to be laid before them on the prescribed Army 
Forms. The board will in every case record an opinion as to the 
validity of the claim, and will submit a recommendation as to the 
amount of indemnification to be granted. 

In the case of a claim being preferred, in accordance with (a) of 
paragraph 554, for articles of equipment not laid down by regulation 
but specially prescribed by the G.O.C, the board will require the 
production of a copy of the Order prescribing the extra articles, and 
will annex it to their proceedings. 

565. The proceedings of the board will be transmitted to the 
G.O.C who, if the circumstances of the case appear to him to 
justify the grant of indemnification, will decide the amount to be 
given, except in the case of claims under paras. 552 and 559 when 
he will forward the proceedings, or certified copies thereof, with 
his observations and opinion, for the consideration of the Army 
Council. 



153 



Indemnification for Losses 



• Schedule A. 
(Referred to in para. 553 ) 
Scale of equipment — For service not in the field. 



3. 



4. 



Baggage to an amount 
not exceeding 



m J- 

CO > 

fe- o.g 



-a o 

a -M OJ 

ca 3 2 

P c3 cS 

a • 

8 M § £ 

S"S 2 
ca o 

0 !- 



60 



as 



1 
1 

Staff. 


£ 


s. 


£ 


s. 


£ 


s. 


£ 




£ 


s. 


£ 


s. 


General oiBcer 


114 


16 


60 


7 


17 


0 


14 


0 


58 


19 


50 


0 


Field officer 


115 


2 


33 


8 


17 


0 


7 


0 


40 


14 


24 


0 


Captain and subaltern 


























officer 


112 


13 


29 


16 


17 


0 


5 


0 


39 


13 


20 


0 


Household Cavaliit. 


























Field officer 


185 


14 


29 


2 


14 


0 


7 


0 


76 


8 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer 


185 


14 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


76 


8 


16 


0 


Captain 


179 


12 


24 


17 


13 


10 


6 


0 


76 


8 


16 


0 


Subaltern officer 


179 


12 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 


76 


8 


16 


0 


Dragoon Guaeds and 


























Dkagoons. 


























Field officer 


145 


10 


29 


'2 


14 


0 


7 


0 


62 


13 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer ... 


145 


10 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


62 


13 


16 


0 


Captain ... 


143 


8 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


62 


13 


16 


0 


Subaltern officer 


141 


6 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 


62 


13 


16 


0 


Hussar-s. 


























Field officer 


211 


0 


29 


2 


14 


0 


7 


0 


64 


6 


24 


0 


Brevet iield officer 


211 


0 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


64 


6 


16 


0 


Captain . ... 


204 


0 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


64 


6 


16 


0 


Subaltern officer 


194 


0 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 


64 


6 


16 


0 


Lancers. 


























Field officer 


158 


0 


29 


2 


14 


0 


7 


0 


62 


13 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer ... 


158 


0 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0' 


62 


13 


16 


0 


Captain 


155 


18 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


62 


13 


\^ 


0 


Subaltern officer 


153 


16 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 


62 


18 


16 


0 


Horse Artillery. 


























Field officer ... 


166 


16 


29 


2 


17 


0 


7 


0 


64 


2 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer ... 


166 


16 


24 


17 


16 


10 


5 


0 


64 


2 


24 


'0 


Captain 


1.59 


0 


24 


17 


16 


10 


5 


0 


64 


2 


16 


0 


Subaltern officer 


153 


16 


24 


17 


16 


10 


4 


0 


64 


2 


16 


0 



* The £6 is issuable for the clothing and stable necessaries of each horso 
for which forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratiiiitously under para. 604. 



Indemnification for Losses. 



154 



Schedule A — conliniied. 





1 


2. : 


3. 


4 




5. 


6. 




Bagga 


ge to an 
exceec 


amount 
ling 


not 


ee g N 

C u 


i 




■ 


Uniform, boots, and 
appointments. 


a 


Watch, field glasses 
compass and writ- 
ing materials. 


Trunks and cases. 


it"-'. 

c 5 S 
g s .1: 
W S*W a. 


So 
0 




Field and Mountain 


£ .V. 


£ .1. 


£ s. 


£ 


s. 


£ s. 


£ 


s 


AllTILLEllY. 


















Field officer 


145 '2 


29 2 


17 0 


7 


0 


24 18 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer 


145 -2 


24 17 


16 10 


0 


0 


24 18 


16 


0 


Captain 


loo U 


24 17 




0 


\j 


24 18 




0 


Subaltern officer 


130 0 


24 17 


16 10 


4 


0 


24 18 


10 


0 


Gakuison Ahtillery. 


















Field officer 


138 2 


29 2 


17 0 


7 


0 


24 14 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer 


138 i 


24 17 


16 10 


5 


0 


24 14 


16 


0 


Captain 


107 11 


24 17 


16 10 


5 


0- 




16 


0 


Subaltern officer 


102 7 


24 17 


16 10 


4 


0 




16 


0 


Adjutant 


128 4 


24 17 


16 10 


4 


0 


24 14 


16 


0 


Engineeks. 


















Field officer 


132 14t 


33 8 


17 0 


7 


0 


25 5 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer 


135 8+ 


29 16 


16 10 


5 


0 


25 5 


20 


0 


Captain 


122 14t 


29 16 


16 10 


5 


0 


20 0 


20 


0 


Subaltern officer 

i 


119 14t 


29 16 


16 10 


4 


0 


20 0 


20 


0 


Foot Guakus. 


















Field officer 


121 11 


29 2 


14 0 


7 


0 


22 18 


24 


0 


Brevet field officer .■•'•(, 


124 5 


24 17 


13 10 


5 


0 


22 18 


16 


0 


Captain ... ••• ,' ••• 


109 6 


24 17 


13 10 


5 


0 


••• 


16 


0 


Subaltern officer 


108 6 


24 17 


13 10 


4 


0 


... 


16 


0 


Adj-utant 


117 11 


24 17 


13 10 


4 


0 


20 16 


16 


0 


Infantry (including the 


















West India Eegiment). 












21 2 


24 


0 


Field officer 


99 14 


29 2 


14 0 


7 


0 


Brevet fjeld officer 


102 6 


24 17 


13 10 


5 


0 


21 2 


16 


0 


Captain ' ... 


87 17 


24 17 


13 10 


5 


0 




16 


0 


Subaltern officer 


8f. 12 


24 17 


"13 10 


"4 


0" 




16 


0 


Adjutant 


94 7 


24 17 


13 10 


4 


0 


19 "2 


16 


0 



* The £G is issuable for the clothing and stable necessaries of each horse 
for which forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratuitously under para 604. 

f R.E. Field Troops £2 additional. In the case of the staff for E.E. 
services compensation for loss of uniform should not exceed infantiy rates. 



155 



Indemnification for Losses. 



Schedule A — continued. 



4. 



Baggage to an amount not 
exceeding 



a 



S .2 
C 'o 

o a 

S ft 



a 
3 



CO 

c3 . 

.2 « ^ 
« CO -s 
-r S 
-9 ft S 



CO 



t3 o 



a -T3 13 
S-o a 



ft-4^ 

fta 

Co 



03 



ft-" 
S ^ ft 



6. 



Highland Regiments, 
Kilted. 

Field officer 

Brevet field officer ... 
Captain 

Subaltern officer 
Adjutant 

Highland Regijients, 
Non-Kilted. 

Field officer 

Brevet field officer ... 
Captain 

Subaltern officer 
Adjutant 

Rifle Regiments. 

Field officer 

Brevet field officer ... 
Captain 

Siibaltern officer 
Adjutant 

AiiJiY See vice Cokps. 
Field officer ... 

Captain 

Subaltern officer 

Ahmt Medical Seiivice. 

Sui'geon-general 

Colonel 

Royal Aumt Medical 
Cokps. 
Lieut.-colonel ' ... "| 
Major ... .:. ■ / 

Captain or lieut. 
Quartermaster 



















£ 


.s*. 


£ 


s. 


£ 


s. 


£ 


A'. 


£ 


s. 


153 


1-2 


29 


2 


14 


0 


r. 

7 


0 


21 


2 


163 


1 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


20 


7 


146 


18 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 






143 


18 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 






147 


12 


24 17 


13 


10 


4 


0 


19' 


2 


134 


15 


29 


2 


14 


0 


7 


0 


21 


2 


loG 


13 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 


20 


2 


1-20 


14 


24 


17 


13 


10 


6 


0 






117 


14 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 








ii 


24 


17 


18 


10 




n 

V 


ID 


0 

L 


93 


10 


29 


2 


_ 14 


0 


7 


0 


18 


17 


96 


2 


24 


17 


13 


10 


6 


0 


18 


17 


81 


1 


24 


17 


13 


10 


5 


0 






79 


17 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 






86 


19 


24 


17 


13 


10 


4 


0 


is' 


17 


91 


2 


33 


8 


14 


0 


7 


0 


19 


18 


86 


4 


29 


16 


13 


10 


5 


0 


18 


17 


82 


11 


29 


16 


13 


10 


5 


0 

\ 


18 


17 


• 

97 


8 


GO 


7 


14 


0 


14 


0 


29 


8 


97 


8 


33 


8 


14 


0 


7 


0 


29 


,8 


81 


9 


33 


8 


14 


0 


7 


0 


18 


4 


77 


17 


29 


16 


13 


10 


5 


0 


14 


14 


77 


17 


20 .16 


13 


10 


5 


0 


14 


14 



hp 



a 



o 



24 0 

16 0 

16 0 

16 0 

16 0 



24 0 

16 0 

16 0 

16 0 

16 0 



24 0 

16 0 

16 0 

16 0 

16 0 



24 0 
20 0 
20 0 



50 0 
24 0 



24 0 

20 0 
20 0 



* The £6 is issuable for the clothing and stable necessaries of each horse 
for which forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratuitously under para. 604. 



Indemnification for Losses. 



158 



SciiEDULB A — continued. 





1. 


2. 


3. 


4. 


6. 


6. 


Baggage to an amount not 
exceeding. 


and 
on to 
rized 


1 

a 






a 








aj 








2 

5; 








a 








00 




OI 




S-o a 


§ 








u5 






v: > 


ry; 






a * « « 








t£ 
"o 


*^ 
a 






bo £ 








*j ^ 


SP 






o 


3 
a 






field 


s 






'o « 


5< 






Unifori 




> 


a 


"s i 

is 


, s 

to 


Trunks 




Horse 
eq uipmi 
£6 for 
private 


!up 6 

teen. 




Army Veteuinauy 


£ 


S. 


£ 


s. 


£ 


s. 


£ 


s. 


£ «. 


£ 


s. 


Sekvice and OoiiPS. 
























Colonel or lieutenant- 
























colonel 


105 


o 
y 


DO 


Q 

o 


14 


A 

u 


7 


0 


39 16 


24 


0 


Major or captain 


100 


f* 
u 


66 


8 


13 


10 


5 


0 


38 15 


20 


0 


Jjieutenant 


100 


a 
D 


Zv 


io 


13 


1 A 


4 


0 


38 15 


20 


0 


Army Chaplains' Depaet- 
























MENT. 
























Chaplains, 1st, 2nd, and 
























3rd class 


35 


a 
u 




o 
o 


H 


A 
U 


7 


A 
U 


... 


24 


0 


Chaplains, 4th class 


35 


6 


29 


16 


10 


10 


5 


0 




20 


0 


Akmy Ordnance Depart- 
























ment. 
























Principal ordnance officer ... 


99 


16 


60 


7 


14 


0 


14 


0 


37 4 


60 


0 


1st, '2nd, and 3rd class 






















ordnance officers ... ... 


91 


2 


DO 


Q 
O 


14 


u 


7 


A 


19 18 


24 


0 


4th c'.ass ordnance officers... 


86 


4: 






13 


1 A 

lu 


5 


0 


18 17 


20 


0 


Commissary, deputy com- 




















missary, assistant com- 
missary of ordnance or 














































inspector of ordnance 
























machinery 


82 


1 1 




io 


13 


1 A 


5 


0 


18 17 


20 


0 


























Chief paymaster ... A 














• 










Staff paymaster ... ( 
Paymaster with rank of f 


86 


4 


33 


8 


14 


0 


7 


0 


18 17 


24 


0 


major ) 
























Paymaster and assistant 
























paymaster ... 


82 


11 


29 


16 


13 


10 


5 


0 


18 17 


20 


0 


Warrant Officers 






12 


14 






2 


0 




8 


0 



* The £6 is issuable for the clothing and stable necessaries of each horse 
for which forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratuitously under para. 604. 



Indemnification for Losses. 



Schedule B. 
(Referred to in para. 553.) 

Scale of equipment — For service in the field. 



2. 



Baggage to an amount 
not exceeding 



a 



o 
o 
,0 



2-S 

I- O 

a o3 



o - f 
.2 to S 

-C CO 

s 

»~ o CI 



^3 O 

2 

QQ O 
-|J .rt ^ 

5 ce cS , 



=1 



s < 

D 



Staff. 

General officer commanding in 

chief, 1st class 

General oificer 

Field officer 

Captain and subaltern officer .. 

Household C a valet. 

Field officer 

Brevet field officer 

Captain 

Subaltern officer 

Dbagoon Guards and 
Dkagoons. 
Field officer ... 

Brevet field officer 

Captain 

Subaltern officer 

HussAiis. 

Field officer J 

Brevet field officer 

Captain 

Subaltern officer 

Lanceks. 

Field officer 

Brevet field officer 

Captain 

Subaltern officer 



£ s. 


Jl. 






1 

s. 


X> 


^> 




5. 


07 10 


9 


A 
U 


1 T 
i/ 


u 




-1 
ft 


OtJ 


» 

i 


67 10 


6 


2 


17 


0 


43 


4 


20 


0 




4 


19 


17 


0 


34 


8 


IP 


0 


61 15 


3 


4 


17 


0 


34 


8 


13 


3 


115 11 


4 


19 


14 


0 


48 


8 


19 


0 


115 11 


3 


t 


13 


10 


48 


8 


11 


7 


113 11 


3 




13 


10 


48 


8 


11 


7 


113 11 


3 


4 


13 


10 


48 


8 


11 


7 


78 7 


4 


19 


14 


0 


4-2 


6 


19 


0 


78 7 


3 


4 


13 


10 


42 


6 


11 


7 


77 6 


3 


4 


13 


10 


42 


6 


11 


7 


76 5 


0 


4 


13 


10 


42 


6 


11 


7 


98 1 


4 


19 


14 


0 


45 


0 


19 


0 


98 1 


3 


4 


13 


10 


45 


0 


11 


7 


96 1 


3 


4 


13 


10 


45 


0 


11 


7 


91 1 


3 


4 


13 


10 


45 


0 


11 


7 


8-2 13 


4 


19 


14 


0 


42 


6 


19 


0 


H-2 13 


3 


4 


13 


10 


42 


6 


11 


7 


81 1-i 


3 


4 


13 


10 


42 


6 


11 


7 


80 11 


3 


4 


13 


10 


42 


6 




7 



* The £6 is issuable for the clothing and stable necessaries of each liorse 
for whicli forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratuitously iiudur para. 604. 



Indemnification for Losses. 



Schedule h—coniinued. 





1 




2. 


8 




6. 


1 6 






Baggage to an 


amouufi 




i J. 








not c'xcuediiig. 




3 9 ^* 


8. 














« J. 




















o — 






3 







rt 


m 






« - 




g-o 9 

S cs «« 
Z - m 


c 






, . boot 








:s 'f. 


terial 


ppoin: 
its (ir 
each 
orse). 








E 










ci 


S , - 


C 








o 








S S o 








TJnifo 






a; 




iC 


Horse 
oquipi 
£6 fc 
privat 


Camp 




House Ahtilleky. 


£ 


S. 


£ 




£ 


S. 


£ 


c 


s 


I'leld officer 


77 


10 


4 


19 


17 


0 


44 16 




0 


xSievet nelcl omcer ... 


77 


10 


o 


4 


16 


10 


44 If! 


1 1 


7 


Captain 


7() 


9 


.B 


4 


16 


10 


44 16 


11 


7 


Diiuauern omcer 


75 


8 




4 


16 


10 


44 16 


11 


7 


PiELD AND Mountain 




















Artillery. 




















Field oiiicer ... ... ... ... 


64 


8 


4 


19 


17 


0 


94 IR 


1 Q 


0 


Jirevet held omcer ... 


64 


8 


3 


4 


16 


10 


i*± AO 


1 1 

li 


7 


Captain 


6-2 


6 


3 


4 


16 


10 


24 18 


11 


7 


buDaiteru ofiicer 


61 


5 


3 


4 


16 


10 


■ 24 18 


11 


7 


Garrison Artillery (including 




















Malta Artillery). 




















Field officer ... 


62 


8 


4 


19 


17 


0 


24 14 


19 


0 


isrevet lieJa ofiicer ... 


62 


8 


o 

t» 


4 


16 


10 


24 14 


11 


7 


Oaptaiu 


4!) 


7 


3 


4 


16 


10 




11 


7 


Subaltern officer 


48 


6 


3 


4 


16 


10 




11 


7 


Adjutant 


60 


6 


3 


4 


16 


10 


2414 


11 




Engineers. 




















X leiu Omcer ... 


68 


It 


4 


19 


17 


0 


15 16 


19 


0 


xsrevet field officer ... 


70 


lot 


ii 

o 


4 


IG 


10 


15 16 


13 


9 


Captain 


66 


15t 


3 


4 


16 


10 


15 16 


13 


9 


buoaltern otiicer 


05 


15t 


3 


4 


16 


10 


15 16 


13 


9 


Foot Guards. 




















Field Officer 


74 


7 


4 


19 


14 


0 


16 12 


19 


0 


Brevet field officer 


77 


1 


3 


4 


13 


10 


10 12 


11 


7 


Captain 


62 


2 


3 


4 


13 


10 




11 


7 


Subaltern officer 


61 


12 


3 


4 


13 


10 


1 


11 


7. 


Adjutant 


72 


7 


o 
O 


4 1 


13 


10 


1612 


11 


7 



I 



* The £6 is issuable for the clotfiing and stable necessaries of each horse for 
which forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratuitously under jjara. 604. 

t R.E. Field Troops, £2 additional. In the case of the staff for R.E. 
services compensation for loss of uniform should not exceed iufautiy rates. 



Indemnification for Losses. 



Schedule B — continved. 



1. 


2. 


3. 


5. 


6. 


Baggage to au amount 
not exceeding. 


Horse appointments aud 
equipments (in addition to 
£6 for each authorized 
private horse).* 


Camp equipage and can- 
teen. 


Uniform, boots, and 
appointments. 


Liueu. 


Watch, field glasses, 
compass and writ- 
ing materials. 



Infantry othek than Foot 






£ 


s. 


£ 


St 




g 


£ 




GuAiiDS (including the West 






















India Kegiment). 






















Field officer 


63 


4 


4 


19 


14 


0 


15 


2 


19 


0 


Brevet field officer ... 


55 


16 


3 


4 


13 


10 


15 


2 


11 


7 


Captain 

Subaltern officer 


42 


18 


3 


4 


13 


10 






11 


7 


42 


11 


3 


4 


13 


10 






11 


7 


Adjutant 




12 


3 


4 


13 


10 


15 


2 


11 


7 


Highland Regiments, Kilted. 






















Field officer ... 


86 


5 


4 


19 


14 


0 


15 


2 


19 


0 


Brevet field officer 


109 


15 


3 


4 


13 


10 


15 


2 


11 


7 


Captain 


96 


lb 


Q 

o 


A 
4: 










ii 


7 


Subaltern officer 


96 


6 


3 


4 


13 


10 






11 


7 


Adjutant 


88 


3 


s 


4 


13 


10 


15 


2 


11 


7 


Highland Regiments, Non- 






















Kilted. 






















Field officer ... 


79 


12 


4 


19 


14 


0 


15 


2 


19 


0 


Brevet field officer 


86 


2 


3 


4 


13 


lo 


15 


2 


11 • 


7 


Captain 


71 


17 


3 


4 


13 


10 






11 


7 


Subaltern officer 


69 


7 


3 


4 


13 


10 






11 


7 


Adjutant 


77 


10 


3 


4 


13 


10 


15 


2 


11 


7 


Rifle Regiments. 






















Field officer 


54 


19 


4 


19 


14 


0 


15 


14 


19 


0 


Brevet field officer 


57 


11 


3 


4 


13 


10 


15 


14 


11 


7 


Captain 


45 


0 


3 


4 


13 


10 






11 


7 


Subaltern officer 


44 


8 


3 


4 


13 


10 






11 


7 


Adjutant 


51 


16 


3 


4 


13 


10 


15 


14 


11 


7 


Abmy Bbbvice Conrs. 






















Field officer 


59 


7 


4 


19 


14 


0 


13 


12 


19 


0 


Captain 


56 


8 


3 


4 


13 


10 


13 


12 


13 


9 


Subaltern officer 


64 


10 


3 


4 


13 


10^ 


13 


12 


13 


9 



















-"The £6 is issuable for the clothing and stable necessaries of each horse for 
which forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratuitously under para. 604. 



Indemnification for Losses. 



160 



Schedule B — continued. 



2. 



3. 



5. 



Baggage to an amount 
not exceeding. 



o o 



o o 



Sao?*:; 



ct 

§3 



5 5..- , - 



> 2 



3 tC 



1; i J= ^ 



AuMV Medical Service. j 

Surgeon-general j 

Colonel 

Royal Army Medical Corps. 
Lieutenant-colonel or major 

Captain or lieutenant 

Quartermaster 

Army Veterinary Service 
AND Corps. 
Colonel or lieutenant-colonel 

Major or captain 

Lieutenant 

Army Chaplains' Department. 
Chaplains, 1st, -ind, and 3rd class 
Do. 4th class 

Army Ordnance Department. 
Principal oi'duauce officer ... 
1st, 2nd, and 3rd class ordnance 
officers 

4th class ordnance officer 

Commissarj^ deputy commissary, 
assistant commissary of ord- 
nance or inspector of ordnance 
machinery 

Army Pay Department. 

Chief paymaster 

Staff paymaster r 

Paymaster with rank of major j 
Paymaster and assistant paymaster 

Warrant Officers 



£ 8. 


£ 


s. 


£ 


s. 


£ t. \ 


£ 


t. 


LZ 4 


6 


2 


14 


0 


29 8 


26 


0 


53 4 


4 


19 


14 


0 


14 14 


19 


0 


51 11 


4 


19 


14 


0 


14 14 


19 


;i 


48 10 


3 


4 


13 


10 


14 14 


13 


ii 


48 10 


3 


4 


13 


10 


13 12 


13 


(J 


60 11 


4 


19 


14 


0 


33 10 


19 


0 


00 8 


6 


•i 


id 


1 A 


QQ 1 ft 

66 lU 


16 




55 8 


3 


4 


13 


10 


33 10 


13 


9 


29 2 


4 


19 


11 


0 




19 


0 


29 2 


3 


4 


10 


10 




13 


9 


66 3 


6 


2 


14 


0 


27 4 


26 


0 


59 7 


4 


19 


14 


0 


13 12 


19 


0 


56 8 


3 


4 


13 


10 


13 12 


13 


9 


54 10 


3 


4 


13 


10 


13 12 


13 


9 


56 8 


4 


19 


1 1* 


0 


13 12 


19 


0 


54 10 


3 


4 


1 

, 13 


10 


'< 13 12 


13 


9 




1 


19 


1 
! 




1 ... 







• The £6 is issuable for the clothing and stable necessaries of each horse for 
which forage is allowed under paras. 127 to 146, except for those supplied 
gratuitously under para. 604, 



iGi Postage. 

In addition to the articles of kit represented by the above ^"^"^'^ 
amounts every officer is allowed to send to the base of operations a 
buUocli trunk weighing about 100 lbs. The contents may consist 
of any of the articles indicated by the headings of columns 1, 2 
and 6, and indemnification may be allowed to an amount not 
exceeding the totals of those columns in schedule A, regard being 
had to the restriction in the weight of baggage admissible on 
field service. This hmitation applies only to officers under the 
rank of general. 



Section 20. - POSTAGE, TELEGRAMS, TELE-Ko^is^ 



PHONIC MESSAGES, ARMY FORMS,! 
BOOKS, AND STATIONERY. 



1913 



I.— POSTAGE. 

566. The full amount of postage will in all cases be ascertained Postage 
and paid before letters are despatched, except in the case of those prepaid, 
posted in the United ICingdom and the Channel Islands, and 
addi-essed to the War Office; the Inspector-General of the. 
Forces ; the Royal Arsenal and Eoyal Dockyard, Woolwich (except A.O. 89 
those addressed to the Chief Ordnance Officer, Woolwich District) ; ' 1913 
the Ordnance Officer, Tower of London ; the Royal Army Clothing 
Department, Grosvenor Road, London ; Headquarters, Iiish 
Command ; Headquarters, Scottish Command ; Army Pay Offices 

and Army Audit Office, Dublin ; and Army Pay Offices and Army 
Audit Office, Edinburgh. All communications requiring to be 
stamped, wliich, under the regulations of the Post Office, may be 
sent at the halfpenny rate of postage, are to be so sent. 

Letter post should be used in cases where it is essential that 
the sender should know whether his communication has reached 
the addressee or not. 

567. Except when the cost of postage is chargeable against a Postage. 
I contingent allowance or other grant intended to cover such cost, 

actual and necessary postage expenses incurred by officers in the 
performance of military duty are admissible as direct charges against 
the public. The charges should be made monthly on A.F. P 1940. 

As a general rule postage stamps should be bought at a head 
post office, especially when large amoimts are purchased ; but when 
serious inconvenience would be caused by adhering to this rule 
purchases may be made at sub-offices. 

568. A pass book, A.B. 97, will be kept, in which the addresses Pass Book, 
of all letters chargeable to the X->ublic will be entered. These 

entries will be examiiicd daily by the officer responsible for the 

(.B 10575) 9 



1G2 



A.O. 18 
1913 
Limits to. 



Stamps on. 



expenditure, whose signature will be affixed a* a voucher for its 
correctness. 

II. — TELEGRAMS AND TELEPHONIC MESSAGES. 

569. Telegraphic and telephonic communication.s otiier than 
those which arc originated on an official W.D. circuit will be 
limited to message.? on the public service of urgent necessity, and 
recourse will be had to such communicatioas in cases only where the 
delay involved in tiie transmission of a letter by post would be 
prejudicial to the public service. 

570. A telegraphic message sent on the public service will have 
attached to the form on which it is made out stamps of the proper 
value, in the same manner as if the message were a private one. 
The sums expended on the stamps will be admitted as a charge 
against the public, if vouched by copies of the telegrams sent, and 
by the certificate on A>F. P 1940. 

571. The repetition of a message must be obtained as a "paid 
service message " through the delivering office, and not by means 
of a fresh message exchanged between sender and receiver. 

572. In the event, however, of any messages being improperly 
sent as on the public service, or of any messages not being of 
sufficient urgency or importance, the officers or others sending 
them will be called upon to defray the cost. 

573. All telegraphic messages relating to leave of absence or 
private business sent by officers of the army and its civil depart- 
ments for the personal convenience of the senders or receivers 
will be prepaid in telegraphic stamps at the cost of the sender. 
The cost of such messages will not be admissible as a charge against 
the public. 

574. The deaths of officers and soldiers at stations abroad and 
on board ship, and sudden or accidental deaths of officers and 
soldiers serving at home in time of peace wiU be notified by telegram 
to the War office. 

575. The dangerous illness or death of an officer or soldier may 
be communicated by telegram at the pubUc expense to the next- 
of-kin if residing in the same country. In other cases such com- 
munications must be made by letter, unless the cost of the telegram 
is defrayed from private sources. 

576. Telephonic messages originating from call offices in post 
offices will be prepaid. The sums expended will be admitted as 
a charge against the public, if vouched by £t statement showing the 
number of messages, the amount paid for each and their purport 
in brief, and by the certificate on A.F. P 1940. 

III. ^ARMY FORMS, BOOKS, AND STATIONERY. 
Na.ture of 577. Office stationery, forms, books, school materials, drawing 
supplies, materials^ and latrine paper, will be supplied at the pubUc expense, 

under- the regulations la/Id down in paras. 579 to 595. 



Eepeti- 
tion. 



Messages 
improperl y 
sent. 



Prepay- 
ment of 
private 
messaores. 



illness of 
officer or 
soldier. 



Prepay- 
ment of 
telephonic 
messages. 
A.O. 18 



191B 



lt?3 



Army Forms, Books, &c. 



578. The cost of all articles of stationery, &c., is chargeable 
against the votes of His Majesty's Stationery Office, and cannot 
be defrayed out of army votes. Under this head are included 
I the following amongst other items : — 

Typewriting machines and accessories. 

Printing presses and materials. 

Office stamps. 

Books. 

Binding. 

Maps (other than ordnance survey maps). 

Lithographic presses and stores. 

Gallic acid for sun printing apparatus. 
These supplies and stationery generally are obtained under con- 
tracts entered into by the Controller of His Majesty's Stationery 
Office on behalf of the public service. Local purchase is forbidden. 

579. Stationery will not be supplied to adjutants of the territorial 
! force in connection with their duties as recruiting officers. An 
allowance at the rate of twenty shiUings per annum will be granted 
:for this service (provided the officer is not in receipt of extra-duty 
I pay as recruiting officer). 



How 
charge- 
able. 



Adjutants 
actiug as 
recniitiug 
officers 



' Annual Indents. 

580. Indents will be made yearly on the army forms provided Bespousi- 
tor the purpose, and will be signed by the O.C. or head of the bility for 
(department, who will be held responsible that the columns showing 
rexpenditure and quantities in hand are correctly filled in. They compila- 
-should be framed with d^e regard to the quantities in hand, in tion of 
lOrder that no accumulation of stock occurs. indents. 

Army Forms and Army Books. 

581. At home stations the annual indents for army forms and Annual 
'books will be despatched direct to the War Office, and supplies will indents, 
bbecome due by the dates named below : — 



home. 



"Form of 
'.Indent. 



To be despatched by 



To reach War 
Office on 



Supply due to 
apijlicant. 



: L 1362 
: L 1353 
IL 1351 
IL 1361 

1 L 1352 
IL 1.365 
M.S. 
M.S. 
L 1357 
L 1379 
L 1359 



Headquarters Offices ... 
Eugineer Establishment 

R.A. or R.E. Offices 

Depots and Special Eeserve 

Battalions 

A.S.O. Offices 

Army Medical Service 

,, Veterinary „ 

,, Chaplains 

■ ,, Ordnance Department ... 

„ Pay Department 

,, Schools 



1st January . 
1st December . 
1st „ 

1st September. 
1st October 
1st November . 
1st December . 
1st NovembeiVi 
1st October 
1st November 
1st „ ■ 



31st March 
31st „ 
31st „ 

31st December 
31st March 
.31st „ 
31st „ 
31st „ 
31st „ 
31st „ 
31st „ 



(B 10575) 



stationery, School Material?, &c. 



1G4 



Abroad. At statioas abroad the annual indents will be forwarded in time 

to reacii tlie War Office on Ist October. 
No iudoiit A fixed annual issue of arniy forms and books has been ajjproved 
uocessary for regiments of cavalry, battalions of infantry, batteries of R.H.A. 

and R.F.A., companies of R.G.A., R.E., A.S.C. and A.O.C., and no 

indent will be made by these units. 

Stalicmery, School Materials, dbc. 

Forms and 582. Indents for stationery, school materials, &c., will be sub- 
dates for uiitted on the army forms shown below, and should, reach the War 
Biou^""^" Office by the dates shown against each : — 



Army 
Form. 



Articles. 



A.O. 294 

^1912 



Date due at the War Offic*". 



L 1369 
L 1377 

L 1374 
L 1375 

L 1378 
L 1380 



School materials for infants. 
School materials for adults 
and elder children. 

Drawing materials (Engineers) 



Latrine paper 



Stationery, Bibles and Prayer 
Books. 

Drawing materials for recon- 
naissance classes. 



Ist October. 
1st October. 

/ Home stalioM. Ist December, 
t Stations abroad. 1st October. 

(Borne statiorus. 1st December. 
(Through G.0.0.) 
Stations ahroad. 1st October. 
(Through G.O.C.) 
Home stations. Units of cav.nlry 
artillerj-, engineers and infan- 
try (except special reserve), on 
1st July ; all other services ou 
1st December. 
Stations abroad. All services, 
1st October. 



583 



At stations abroad, the indents for both army forms and 



Mode of 

transmis- , , t . •,, ,' , , — 

siou from books and stationery will be submitted to the War Office through 

abroad. the chief ordnance officer, who will be responsible that they are 

despatched so as to reach the War Office on 1st October. 

Supplementary Indents. 
Explana- 584. A supplementary indent for stationery or army forms is to 
necessary ^® ^^'^^ special circumstances only ; and a letter stating the 
reason why an additional issue is necessary should invariably 
accompany the indent— A.F. L 1381 (for stationery) and A.F. 
L 1350 (for army forms). 

Supplies. 

585. Supplies at home ^^^ll be sent to the units or departments 
requiring them. Abroad, supplies will be separately packed for 
each unit or department, but will be foiwarded in one consignment 
to the chief ordnance office)'. 



How sent. 



Office Stationery. 



586. Supplies of Army forms and books for home stations will j!^™^^„p 
become due on the dates shown in para. 581 ; those for stations 
abroad will be due on 31st March in each year. 

SuppUes of stationery will be received at home by units of stationery 
cavalry, artillery, engineers and infantry (except special reserve) tl'ie. 
on 1st October ; by all other services both at home and abroad on 
3 1st March in each year. 

Supphes of school materials will be due at home stations on Scliool 
31st December ; and at stations abroad on 31st March in each year. Jl^'^*®'^''^'""^ 

587. In the case of schools, only one indent will be rendered for 
each adults' and elder children's school, infants' school, elder girls' 
school, and detachment school respectively, at home and colonial 
stations. All books and materials issued will be left at the station 
on any transfer of the troops, and the O.C. the troops at the statioii 
will be responsible for them. 

Ofjice Stationery. 

588. Stationery for a regiment or corps is strictly limited to Eegiment 
articles required for the public service, and is issued only for the ""''P''- 
offices of the CO., adjutant, and quartermaster. 

589. The quantities demanded are to be calculated with reference Calcula- 
te the number of persons employed in each office, and the personal 
stationery for each such person is not to exceed for one year — 

4 doz. barrel 1 



Pens, steel s or ^ with 4 holders. Rates of 

1 gross nibs J supply- 
or 

,, quill 100 (Foreign station.s only). 

Lead pencils ... ... 4 

Blotting paper ... ... 3 quires. 

590. Durable articles, such as inkstands, knives, seals, rulers £)„rablf 
and lead-pressers, will only be supphed on the formation or articles, 
augmentation of aii office, or when the previous issue shall have 
become unserviceable through fair wear, after not less than 10 years' 
service. 

591. Stationery is issued for offices and not for individuals. Handed 
Every serviceable article is, therefore, to be handed over to his "'^er to 
successor by an officer or clerk quitting an office or appointment. successor. 

592. A master gunner will draw such stationery and army forms Master 
or army books as he may require from the armament major or other gunner, 
officer to whom ho may report. 

593. Stationery, not exceeding the quantities specified below, Reoruiting 
will be allowed annually for the use of recruiting officers and paid officers, 
recruiters. 

The necessary supplies will be demanded by'tlie O.C. (on a r)ep6ts, ,l-o. 
separate indent from that for stationery for the depot offices), and 



office Stationery. 



1G6 



will be distributed by him to the recruiting officers and N.C.Os, 
concerned. 

Recruiting staff officers will make separate indents. 





For a 


1' or a 
rccruitiii|^ 
officer. 






recrniting 
staff 
officer. 


For a paid 
recruiter. 


T^lotf.inp* iifiTior miirfis ... ... 

JJ i\_fl'l>lIl£iL l/LLI^t'lf VILili^U 


2 


U 

2 


1 


Foolscap ,, „ 


10 


5 




Notopaper „ 


10 


5 




Mcmovanduiu forms ... 


500 


500 


350 


Pens, barrel, boxes 


2 


2 


2 


Pencils 


2 


2 


2 


Ink, pints 


1 


1 


1 


Envelopes, demy 


200 


100 


50 


„ foolscap 


1,000 


500 


300 


„ note 


500 


200 





594. Indents for army forms and books and stationery for 
military hospitals and medical inspection rooms at home will be 
forwarded to the War Office by medical officers in charge direct. 
The supply required for inspection rooms should be included in the 
indent for the hospital which receives the sick from those rooms. 

At stations abroad the D.D.M.S. or senior medical officer will 
forward one indent, which should include the supphes required for 
all the military hospitals and inspection rooms under his charge. 

595. The senior army chaplain of each denomination in a com- 
mand will make indent for such stationery, army forms, and army 
books as may be required for his own use, and that of any other 
army chaplain of the same denomination in the command. The 
supplies will be separately sent to the several denominations. 

Covers for Army Orders, d-c. 

596. A cover for a year's Army Orders, or for a year's List of 
Orders &c. Changes, will be issued yearly, in Januarj', to each officer to whom 

' ' those documents are sent. This cover will hold the orders, &c., 
during the year, and will serve as their cover afterwards. Charges 
for binding will not be admitted. 

Local Forms. 

Indents. 597. Local forms bearing only local numbers will be indented for 
on the special form supphed by the War Office for the purpose. 
Annual indents (in duplicate) should be rendered so as to reach the 
War Office by 1st October.. 



Military 

hospitals, 
&c. 



Chaplains. 



167 



Bibles and Prayer Books. 



Bibles and Prayer Books. 

598. Bibles and prayer books are suppUed at the public expense To wbm.i 
to recruits on enlistment (or to soldiers not previously supphed), it' 
who juay wish to possess them, according to their religious 

'^^If^a booirhas to be replaced before the expiration of 10 years f^^^^ses^^_ 
from the date of supply, the soldier will be charged with its value 
according to the following scale, unless the loss has been incurred 
during service in the field : — 

s. d. 

Bible • J 7| 

Prayer Book, with Hymns 0 8 

Presbyterian Bible, with Psahus 0 10^- 

Roman Catholic Testament 0 8 

„ Prayer Book (Catholic Piety) 1 0 
" Prayer Book (The Cathohc 

Prayer Book) 0 9^ 

Wesleyan Prayer Book, with Hymns 0 10 

Lalrine Paper. 

599. Latrine paper for the undermentioned services will be Indents 
obtained on indent from the officer i/c barracks at the station, at and issues, 
the rate of 20 reams per annum for 100 persons. 

It is to be issued — 

(a) To barracks having Jennings' or Macfarlane's latrines, or dry- 
earth closets, according to average occupation. 

(b) To hospitals, military detention barracks and prisons, according 
to average occupation. 

(c) On board ship, to troops, women, and children, on embarka- 
tion, according to estimated length of voyage. 

Latrine paper for troops in camp, calculated at the above- 
mentioned rate for the period to be spent in camp, should be 
included in indents for camp equipment sent by units to the A.O.D., 
by which department supplies should be demanded in bulk in 
an indent on A.R L 1381 (Sheet 1) addressed to the Secretary, 
War Office. 

600. The general or other O.C. at home or abroad will ascertain On board 
that latrine paper is put on board ship for the hospital and for the 
troops, women, and children, embarking, whether for voyages to or 

from stations abroad, or coast'^ise. 



Printing. 

601. The coat of printing is chargeable against the votes of Local 
His Majesty's Stationery Office, and camiot be defrayed out of ^^^^ 
army votes. 



Supply of Horses. 



Ifis 



Regula- 
tion for 
oieamnce 
of. 



Regula- 
tions. 



Printing locally is prohibited, except in case.? in which the 
])\iblic interests Avould suffer if the printing had to be executed 
through the War Office. Permission to resort to local printing is 
first to be obtained by telegram. In certain cases local printing 
contracts have been arranged through the War Office ; these 
contracts cover the printing of local orders, circular letters, general 
and special ideas for field days, and similar documents, but do not 
include book or pamphlet work, which is invariably to be done 
through the War Office. 

Disposal of useless Books and Papers. 

602. Whenever useless books, paper, or forms accumulate in any 
office, or school, authority will be obtained from the CO.C. to 
forward them to the A.O.D. for sale. 

The amount realized will be credited to the " Controller of His 
Majesty's Stationery Office, Army Books, Forms, &c., sold (Credit 
Account)," the credit being supported by a certified voucher show- 
ing the weight of paper sold, and the amount realized. When, on 
account of infectious disease, or for other cause, the sale of paper is 
undesirable, it will be destroyed under the orders of the G.O.C. 

Military Books and Maps. 

603. Regulations as to the issue of mihtary books and maps will 
be published in Army Orders. Ordnance survej' maps required for 
the public service are to be obtained as stated in those regulations, 
and are not to be purchased localty. 



Section 21.- SUPPLY AND CASTING OF 
HORSES, &c. 



Chargpvi? 
supplicil 
at public 
expensf*. 
_ 1U\ 
MrsiV 
387 ~ 



Supply of Chargers. 

604. Two chargers will be supplied at the public exjiense to each 
officer (except quartermasters and riding-masters) serving in a 
regiment of cavalry of the line, in the R.H.A., or in a field squadron, 
field troop, signal squadron, or signal troop R.E., and one charger 
to every other mounted officer of the army (including quarter- 
masters and riding-masters), except those serving with the staff, 
the educational establisliments, the household cavalry, the army 
medical service, army veterinary service, or the departments of 
the army. When the chargers cease to be serviceable for military 
purposes they may be replaced at the public expense. 



169 



Supply of Horses. 



Riding-masters of the household cavahy will be supplied with 
chargers, but quartermasters of the household cavalry will be 
provided with troop horses. 

Troop horses will also be provided for certain of the oflicers 
mentioned in paras. 129, 130, 132 and 135. 

Officers at horae preferring to have cobs* may be supplied with q^^^^ 
them on the certificate of their C.Os. that cobs are suitable for their 
military duties. 

t605. Chargers or troop horses will be supplied for mihtary (ji,ai .;errf 
purposes ; but any horse so suppHed may be used for general iis.'il for 
purposes on payment of £10 per annum for horses at home, and 
£7 per amium for horses abroad and for cobs at home and abroad. 1'"' I'""'^"- 

Payments will be made quarterly in advance, and will reckon 
from the day on which the hire commences ; the first payment, for 
the period from the date of possession to the first day of the ensuing 
quarter, being a proportionate one. If, owing to the exigencies of 
the service, or circumstances beyond the control of the hirer he is 
unable to retain for the whole quarter a horse for which he has 
paid in advance, he will be allowed a refund for the unexpired 
period. 

All payments for hire will be suspended while officers are on i';,\ments 
active service. sutspeiHled 

ou active 

606. Pro\ided that a charger is available without extra expense 
to the public, a mounted officer (except a combatant officer of the 
Household Cavalry) who is duly authorized as such by regulations 
but not entitled to an issue at the public expense under para. 604, 
may be supplied with a charger for military or for military and 
general purposes on payment of hire at the same rates as laid down 
in para. 605 for chargers used for general purposes. 

An officer to whom forage is specially granted under para. 148 
may also be supplied with a charger on the same conditions. Hire, 
however, will not be charged in cases where the G.O.C. is able to 
certify that a charger so issued is used for mihtary duty only, and 
that such duty would otherwise have necessitated cab hire or other 
means of conveyance costing more than is involved in the special 
issue of the charger. 

607. C.Os. will be held responsible that the chargers are properly ciiai-o-ors 

cared for and are at all times fit for military dutj'', and that an officer to be 

does not use a charger for general purposes unless he has paid the pi'oiievly 
■ cai'L-d for 

* A cob is a horse raugiiif? in lieiglit from 14^ bauds to 15 bands l iucb. 

t An officer who, prior to tba 1st April, lOiJO, bad in possession a hired 
cliarger, be allowed to retiiiu tlie privilesie as biid down in para, 607 
of the Allowance Regulations, 1907, of bi-c miiug the owuer of the horse 
after six cousecuiive annual paj'meuts at home. In such cases paj'mcnt 
after that date must continue to be made at the rate then iu force. Such 
a horse, on becoming the offlcer'.s property, will continue to be used for 
militai-y purjjones until cii.st by coinp-'tiMit aulliurily. 

(li IToTu) G ?, 



service. 

Moulted 

ofiiccr 

allowed 

use of 

charger — 

conditions. 

AjO . 89_ 

"T913 



Supply of Horses. 



]70 



Uso of 
" free" 
oliargor 



Officers 
held 

iinaneiallj- 
respons- 
ible. 



Board to 

investigate 

accidents. 



sum required by para. 605. Tliey will alfio be responfiible that a 
charger, whether used for general purpo.ses or for miiiiary purposes 
only, is placed at the disposal of the remount department as soon as 
the officer using it ceases to be entitled to a charger. 

608. " Free " chargers may be used, at the discretion of the 
CO., as hacks at the risk of the officer to whom they are allotted. 
A hired charger may be used at the hirer's risk for any purpose 
except racing (other than regimental point-to-point races under 
military supervision), driving in broughams, or heavy harness work 
generally. A hired charger will not be hunted by anyone except 
the officer hiring it, and must not be taken away from the unit 
without the permission of the O.C., and then only in exceptional 
cases. 

■ 609. An officer will be held financially responsible for any loss 
due to accident or injury when the horse is being used otherwise 
than on military duty. Should a disability occur when it is being 
used on military duty, the officer will be held similarly respoasible 
if it be determined that there has been neglect, recklessness, or ill- 
treatment of any land. In either ca.se the financial responsibility 
will be assessed as in para. 610. 

610. Accidents to Government chargers on or ofif duty which, in 
the opinion of the veterinary officer, are likely to cause permanent 
disability, will be investigated by a garrison board of senior com- 
batant officers. An officer of the A.V.C. should attend the board. 
The board will obtain such evidence as may be necessary to assist 
in arriving at a correct conclusion as to the cause of the accident 
or injmy, but will not be required to give an opinion. The pro- 
ceedings of the board will be forwarded to the War Office, for 
consideration by the Army Council, who will determine the officer's 
liability. 

If, in any case, it is decided that an officer is responsible he shall 
pay :— 

(a) If the horse is, or is subsequently found to be, per- 
manently unfit for duty : — 





Horses 


Horses abroad, 




at home. 


and cobs. 


At any time during : — 


£ 


£ .f. d. 


1st year after issue as an officer's cliarger... 


60 


40 0 0 


2nd ditto 


52 


.. 34 10 0 


3rd ditto 


44 


29 0 0 


4th ditto 


30 


23 10 0 


6th ditto 


28 


18 0 0 


6th ditto 


20 


12 10 0 


After 6th ditto 


12 


7 0 0 



171 



Supply of Horees. 



(h) If the horse is temporarily unfit for duty : — 
The expenses incidental to replacement. 
A horse rendered permanently unfit for duty will remain the 
property of the pubhc. 

611. The G.O.C. may authorize'the issue of troop horses, to be Troop 
used as chargers, to mounted officers under his command under the J^^J^'^^^g 
provisions of paras. 604 to 610, and, if used for military purposes 1,,,^,.^^,.^ 
only, the return to the ranks or exchange of such horses. " A.O . IPG 

The G.O.C. will render a return of such issues, returns, or 1911 
exchanges, to the War Office every Saturday on A.F. B 226, show- 
ing date of issue, return, or exchange. A blank return need not, 
however, be rendered. 

Applications for the issue of chargers Will be forwarded to the n4 
War Office by Os.C. units, heads of departments, &c., on A.F. B 226. Returns 
Applications for the return or exchange of chargers other than 1814 
chargers taken from the ranks will be forwarded through the G.O.C. 
to the War Office. 

612. Except as provided in paras. 613 and 614, a horse taken'Re-class- 
into use for general purposes will not be re-classed as a "free" i"gof^^ 
charger without War Office authority. Such authority will not, ^'1,!,'"^^^^,,^ 
except in very special cases, be given if the period of hire has lasted 

for less than 12 months. No horse supplied to an officer will be 
returned by him except for military reasons, or because the officer 
is leaving the unit or the country. 

613. On being ordered abroad, or on change of command ^^^^^'jyj'^gj^j'J"^'' 
officers will leave their public charg ers behind on pubhc charge, thelg^i^j.^jj^^i 
armual payment (if any) will cease, and the animal be available for A.O. 106 
re-issue. 1911 

614. A G.O.C. abroad may authorize a charger issued for Ee-ckss- 
general purposes to be re-classed as a " free " charger, provided that i^g abroad, 
the period of hire has lasted for at least 12 months. 

615. Heads of departments and C.Os. mil notify the necessary Oommancl 
particulars to the command paj^master, who -will recover and credit ^'j^^™^^'^^ 
to the public the sums due under paras. 605 and 606. They will mjtjged 
also inform the command paj^master of the return of chargers or 

troop horses to the remount depots or to the ranks, or any other 
casualties affecting the payment for these horses. 

616. The command paymaster will support the credit in his Credit to be 
accounts by a statement showing the name of the officer, the number ^"PP°i''^^^- 
of the horse, date of supply, and period covered by the credit. Care 

will be taken that the credits are secured regularly as they fall due, 
and, in the event of the officer changing stations, the command 
paymaster will supply the paymaster of the new station with the 
necessary information to enable him to continue the recoveries. 

617. As an alternative to the issue of a public charger or Officers' 
chargers under paras. 604 and 606, officers entitled to be mounted own 
will be permitted to use their own horses if certified by a veterinary '^o^'^es. 

(b 10575) Q 4 



Supply of Horses. 



172 



1 iirclia.so 
of horses 
from tin; 
ranks. 
A.O. 181 
1912 



Horsos 
taken back 
into ranks. 



Officer 
retiring, 



Unsound 
horses. 



officer or civilian veterinary surgeon to be serviceably sound and 
lit for service, and by the CO.* as suitable for military duty, or they 
may imrchase horses from the rank-s (see para. 618). Such horses 
will be .stabled and foraged at the ])ublic expense so long as they 
are used for the jjerformance of military duties. 

618. As an alternative to the issue of a public charger or 
cliargers under paras. 604 and 606, officers entitled to be mounted 
(excluding officers of the household cavalry) will, on application 
to the War Office, bo permitted to jjurchase not more than two 
horses from the ranks which will be used in lieu of the government 
horses to which they would be otherwise entitled : when forage 
is by regulation allowed for only oue horse the application will be 
restricted accordingly. The price to be paid will be £50 each. 
Horses so purchased will not be sold by private contract or otherwise 
disposed of within four years without the previous sanction of the 
War Office. 

Officers who are already in possession of public chargers will 
not be permitted to effect these purchases until their public chargers 
are either returned, transferred or exchanged, as laid down in 
para. 611. 

619. Should an officer wish to part with a horse procured from 
the ranks before it has been in his possession four years, it will be 
placed at the disposal of the pubHc, a notification to that effect 
being first sent to the War Office through the G.O.C. A descriptive 
return, on A.F. B 88, should accompany the appHcation, together 
with a certificate from the veterinary officer stating whether the 
horse is serviceably sound and fit for the service. If the horse is 
passed as sound and is effective for army service, it may be taken 
back into the ranks at troop price, provided it is not more than 
seven years old ; should it be over seven and under ten years old, 
a deduction will be made of £5 for each year in excess of seven. 
These instructions will also apply in the event of the death of an 
officer. 

620. The regulation with regard to the return of a horse to the 
ranks, as laid down in para. 619, will applj^ to the case of an 
officer who may retire, die, or otherwise become non-effective 
before the expiration of four years from the date on which he may 
have procured it. 

621. Should the horse be unsound or otherwise unfit for the 
service, it may be sold with other cast goverrmient horses, and the 
amount realized will be handed over to the officer. 



* In tlie case of departmental officers the certificate will be f;iven by the 
head of the department when at the station, otliorwise by the 0.0. the troops 
at the station. 

In the case of staff officers, lioads of departments, and Os.C. nnits. the 
certificate vriU be given by the G.O.C. concerned. 



173 Shoeing Chargers. 

6'>2 Officers servin'' with an armj'' in the field, will be provided lActive 
at the pubhc expense with the full number of chargers authorized ''l"'^"- 
for their rank or appointment. The private chargers of officers 
proceedinc' on active service, within the numbers they are required 
to maintain for the performance of their public duties, will 
if suitable and if considered necessary by the Remount Department 
be taken over by that department at a price to be fixed in agreement 
with the ONvners. The price should represent the actual value 
of the horse up to a limit of £70. , . 

623. When a casualty occurs from proved neglect on the part Casualty 
of an officer, the officer shall pay the original cost of the horse. ^1°^]^^^^ 
Other casualties will be replaced at the public expense. 

624. When the officer ceases to be a mounted member of the ^J^^^®*^^'"^ 
force, he will hand over his horse to the remount depot, and imme- „°ou®ted. 
diately report by letter to the officer in charge that he has done 

so ; or. if the horse has died or been killed, he ^vill forward a 
certificate, countersigned by his CO. showing the casualty. 
Equipment vriU be returned to store upon conclusion of the service 
for which it was issued, or will be accounted for to the A.O.D. 

Alloioances to Officers and others employed in purchasing and 
conducting animals. 

625. In the United Kingdom, officers, not on the active list, Horse ^ 
appointed inspectors of remounts or deputy assistant directors of P'j^^^^^^^^^^ 
remounts, and officers not belonging to the remount service for— at, 
who are withdrawn from their usual duties, and specially employed home. 

in purchasing or conducting horses or transport animals, will be 
granted an allowance of 20s. a day. while so employed. 

Civihan veterinary surgeons employed in purchasing operations 
in the United Kingdom will ordinarily be paid fees which are 
inclusive of all allowances. 

Abroad, an officer specially employed in purchasing operations Abroad, 
and withdrawn from his usual duties, or a civilian veterinary ^ q 
surgeon similarly employed, will be granted the following allow- J9J2 
ances : — 

In Europe 30s. a day. 

In Canada 

In the United States 

In Buenos Ayres 
Elsewhere abroad 

The above allowances include travelling allowances and all other ^"^^^Jgj'J?^ 
personal expenses except the actual cost of transport, and are 
inadmissible for days on which officers are messed on board ship. 

Allowance for Shoeing Chargers. 

626. Officers who have been supplied with chargers at the public Shoeing 
expense under para. 604 will, when at stations where no army e^enses. 



40s. 

" A.O. 264 

" I 19l2 

30s. „ ' 



Casting of Horses. 174 



farrier is available, be granted, in repayment of the shoeing expenses 
for these chargers, a sujn equal to the average local charge for one 
» shoeing per month. 

In the United Kingdom the allowance will not exceed 4«. a 
month. Abroad the G.O.C. will fix a fair rate, based on local 
prices, and will notify the rate in the orders of the command. If 
shoes are supplied from store, their cost will be deducted from the 
allowance. The allowance will be charged in the accounts of the 
command 25aymaster. 

Sale of Cast Horses. 
Kulesin 627. The rules laid down in the King's Regulations as to the 
Kegula- casting of horses will be observed in respect of all horses and 
tious. mules, the property of the public, coasidered unfit for further 
service. 

by auction ^^^^ authority has been received for the casting of horses 

■ at home stations, their sale will be carried out by public auction, 
in the manner described in paras. 629 to 638, without further 
To be in instructions from the Army Council. 

good con- 629. When horses are directed to be sold, the CO. will see that 
ditiou. they are put in as good condition as circumstances will permit. 
Mode of and sold by an auctioneer or sworn appraiser on a market or sale 
sale. day, at such place, and in such numbers, as may be considered 

most advisable. 

Superin- 630. The CO. will take care that an officer of experience 

officer.^ superintends the sale, and will instruct him that if he should have 
reason to suppose that there is any combination among the buyers 
to keep down the prices of the horses, he will be at liberty to buy 
in or postpone the sale of any of the animals, apcording to the 

Officersand ^^^^'^ which he may receive from the auctioneer in that respect. 

soldiers' officer or soldier will be allowed to purchase anv of the 

not to horses directly or indirectly. 

purchase. 

Diseased 632. No guarantee will be given by the auctioneer that the 
1 ibes. hopseg fj.gg disease. If, however, there should be reason 
to suppose that any cast horses authorized to be sold have become 
affected with glanders or farcy, they will be retained pending a 
reference to command headquarters ; or, in the event of the disease 
having developed itself, they will be at once destroved, and a report 
will be made to the War Office. 
Tolls and 633. Cast horses, the property of the Crown, are not liable to 

toll or market dues when sold in a market town, 
sion oT' ^^°^Pt when horses are sold in London, the commission of 

auction. ^^^^ auctioneer, who shall be a sworn appraiser, will be at the rate 
eer. of 2^ per cent., with a minimum fee of lOs. Qd., and mil be admitted 

as a deduction from the proceeds of the sale. This commission 



175 



will cover every charge incidental to the sale, with the exception 

of the keep of the horses. , ^ -n 4.^ Rill of sale 

635 A. soon as possible after the auction the CO. will cause to Bill of sale, 
h* prepared a bill of sale on A.F. 0 1638, specifying the price 
obtained for each horse, and the name of the purchaser. The bill 

of sale will be signed bv the auctioneer, and certified by the olticer 
attending the sale to be correct as regards the price of the horses 
and the names of the purchasers. , 

636 The C 0 will take care that the auctioneer is instructed by Payment 
the officer ordered to attend the sale to pay the proceeds of the sale 

to the command paymaster (whose address should be furmshecl) command 
witliin U days, and he will also notify to the paymaster the pa>master. 
amount realized at the sale. In the case of payment not being 
made within the stipulated time, the paymaster should at once 
report the fact (through the usual channel) to the G.O.C. 

637. The pavmaster will credit in his accounts the amount ^J^^^'H^^ 
reaUzed, the bill of sale being annexed as a voucher to the account 

in which the credit appears. 

638. At stations abroad the proceeds of the sale of cast horses ^^^J^^^ 
will be paid by the officer superintending the sale into the hands 

of the command paymaster, who will credit the amount to the 

pubhc, annexing the account of the sale on A.F. 0 1638. ^^^^^ 

639. The amount received for the hides and carcases of all dead ^^^^^^^^^ 
animals will be paid over by the O.C. the regiment or corps in 

whose charge the animals were, to the command paymaster, for A.O. 27; 
credit to the public on A.F. 0 1639. I 19^^ 



Section 22.-MISCELLANEOUS ALLOWANCES. 



I.-PROVISION AND MAINTENANCE OF JUMPS 
FOR HORSES. 

640. At home stations, the following annual grants for the Home ^ 
purchase of materials for the provision and maintenance of jumps stations, 
for horses will be allowed : — 

(a) For each battery and depot of Horse and Field 

Artillery (not "drawing a grant under para. 641) £1 
(6) 1st Heavy brigade, KG.A., each battery ... ... IO5. 

2nd Heavv brigade. E.G. A., for the brigade £1 



^fablc Allowance. 



4-J 

' f)7o 

A.o. ion 

I'.IU 



Stations at 
bome niul 
.♦broad. 



Handing 
over to 
incoming 
regiments. 

Claims. •■ 
A.O. 127 



llorsp rugs 
hi 



OaviiUy 



(c) For the Royal Military College 



176 



£10 



£6 



(d) For the Royal Military Acatlcmy 

(e) For the Remount Depots : — 

at Arborficld Cross, Dublin, and Melton Mowbray 

each £.5 

at Woolwich £10 

641. At stations at home and abroad, the following annual 
grants for the provision and maintenance of jumps and the 
maintenance of open maneges, except for subsoil drainage, will be 
allowed : — 

(a) For each cavalry regiment 
(6) For each cavalry depot ... 

(c) For each group consisting of at least one and not 
more than three batteries or depots. Horse and 
Field Artillery, using one manege ... 

(rf) For each mounted unit, R.E. ... ... 

(i;) For each Horse Transport Company, A.S.C. ... 



£20 
£5 



£5 
£1 
10«. 



642. Jumps and maneges will be handed over in proper order 
by the outgoing to incoming regiments, and, in the case of Indian 
reh'efs, the regiment leaving this country will hand over any uaspent 
balance of the allowance to the regiment relieving it. 

643. Claims, on A.F. N 14.59, for the allowances authorized in 
paras. 640 and 641, will be rendered annually to the command 
paymaster in the month of April. The expenditure is under the 
authority of Os.C. units. 

644. An annual upkeep allowance of 25. will be granted to the 
cavalry school and to mounted units in respect of each officer's 
charger, troop and draught horse (exclusive of boarded-out horses) 
on the peace establishment to create a fund out of which CO?, 
may provide, under regimental arrangements, horse rugs as required 
for the use of public horses. The allowance will be claimed in the 
month of May for the whole financial year, and will be charged in 
the accounts of the command paymaster. It will not be admissible 
for other units or individuals. 



Ratc!5 of 
table 

allowance. 



Date of 

commcECf- 

ment. 



II.— TABLE ALLOWANCE. 

645. Table allowance is granted to general and otlier officers 
holding certain commands at home and abroad. The amount 
allowed at each command is fixed from time to time by the Army 
Council. 

646. An O.C., on being appointed to a command for which 
table allowance is sanctioned, will be entitled to draw it from 
the date on which he arrives at headquarters and assumes the 
command. 



Contingent Allowance. 

647y^rhracr^itting a command receive any table 

allowance sanctioned for the command up to the day precedang 
that on wWch he hands over the duties of the command to his 

'"64?T;xble allowance will be continued to an O.C during D«i"g 

ordinary leave of 61 days in each year, but it will not be issued leave. 

to Sor more than 61 days during the biennial or tnenmal 

leave sanctioned for officers serving at certain stations abroad. 

'"649 Should an interval occur between the departure « - Te^rary 

officer from his command and the arrival of his successor table command. 

aUowance may be issued to the officer on whom the command may 

'tsTSinltrabsence of a CO. from a station abroad on Ei^I 
biennial or triennial leave, table allowance may be issued to the ^^..^^^^.^j 
officer temporarily exercising the command after the expiration ot i^^^e. 
the first 61 days of the absent officer's leave. 

651. If an O.C. acts temporarily as governor or lieutenant Acting 
crovernor of a colony for a continuous period exceeding 61 days, 

the table allowance for the whole of the period ^vill be issued to the Lieutenant 
officer on whom the immediate local command of the troops may Governor, 
temporarily devolve. If the officer in chief command retains the 
immediate local command of the troops while acting as governor 
or lieutenant-governor, no surrender of his table allowance -mil be 
required. 

III.— CONTINGENT ALLOWANCE. 
1. Field Intelligence. 

652. A monev allowance not exceeding £300 a quarter will be ^^^^^^ 
granted to the G.O.C. an army engaged in warlike operations, for 

grant. 

the purpose of obtaining inteUigence connected with such opera- 
tions, on his certifying that the amount has been so expended 
on his authoritv, and includes no pay to any officer or soldier of 
His Majesty's Forces. Any further sum expended by the G.O.C. 
for such a purpose shall only be chargeable to army funds if specially 
sanctioned by the Treasury. 

2. Regimental, &c. 

653. The yearly rates of contingent aUowance for a troop,! y,^tps_ 
other than a signal troop R.E., battery, or company, other than] 

of the infantry, or for a section of A. O.C, calculated according -^'^^ 
to its fixed establishment (including, in the case of garrison ' - 
artiUery, the rank and file of the district establishment allotted to — ^^i'^ 

each company), will be as under : — 

£ 5. a. 



Not 6.^ceeding 80 
120 



r 



[rank and file, including j q q 
j dnimmers, buglers, &c. ^ 20 0 0 
240J i.24 0 0 



8 0 0 G2 

12 0 0 i'SS 



Contingent Allowance. 



178 



103 



Inf. 

" 399 

62 



9:55 
62 



955 
A.O. 106 



1611 



Infantry 
depots. 



Section of 
company. 



Special 
depots or 
detach- 
ments. 
Object and 
expenses 
defrayed 
out of 
allowftncc. 

103 

Inf. 

399 

57 

Gen. No. 
1275 



The rates of contingent allowance for a squadron of cavalrj' 
a company of infantry, except at an infantry depot (see para. 65 
will be : — 



or 
654). 



Not e.\ceeding 80 
120 
160 f- 



Rank and file, including 
drummers, buglers, &e. 



£ 8. 
( 7 4 
I 10 IG 
8 

i 18 
'21 



0 
12 



d. 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 



200 I 

Exceeding 200 J 

The rate for each section of the coast battalion R.E. will be £2 
a year. 

The rate for a signal troop R.E. will be £1 10«. a year. 
The rate for the Central Flying School will be £12 a year. 
Contingent allowance in respect of special reservists R.A.JLC. 
will also be allowed as follows : — 

For each special reservist attached to the 

R. A. M.C. for recruit training ... ... Is. j'early. 

This allowance will be calculated on the average strength 
present during the month preceding the date on which the claim 
is made. 

In special cases the rate may be increased, vnth. the sanction of 
the G.O.C.-in-C, provided that in no case a higher rate than 25. 
per man per annum is allowed. 

For each trained special reservist of the R.A.M.C. undergoing 
annual training, &c., with the R.A.M.C... Id. per training, &c. 

654. Contingent allowance for infantiy depots will be allowed 
at the following rates: — £ 

2 battahon depots 24 yearlv. 

4 „ 48 „ " 

Rifle depot ... ... ... ... ... 96 

655. Contingent allowance is not allowed for a section of a 
company. When a section is detached from the headquarters of 
a company, the O.C. the company will supply the O.C. the section 
with a proportion of the allowance authorized for the companv, 
and the latter officer wiU render to the O.C. the company a quarterly 
account of the payments made. 

656. For special depots or detached bodies of troops, a 3'early 
rate not exceeding £30 will be allowed, when authorized bv the 
G.O.C. 

657. Contingent allowance is only intended to cover such expenses 
as are properly chargeable to army funds and cannot be classified 
to other heads. The following are the principal services on which 
it is to be expended : — 

Pay of storemen. 

Repairs of arm chests. 

Cleansing materials for barrack rooms. 

Marking blankets used by troops quartered in barracks. 



1911 



Contingent Allowance. 

"essToffii^s will keepT^^arate account oTtheir expenditure of Sopa^to 
the allowance, in order that information may, if required, be j^^^^ 
furnished with the ^dew of determining the sufficiency or otherwise| 
of the allowance. Grants from regimental institutes are not to be 

mixed up with this account. 399 

3. Recruiting. 

659. A contingent allowance will be granted to Os.C. recruiting 
areas, to be expended, at then- discretion, under the foUowing 

heads : — • 1 4. 

{a) Expense of displaying recruiting posters m places not pro- objects ou 

vided for by special contract. . ^'^^ 

(6) Small fees to local tradesmen for acting as local agents, in • 
places where recruiters cannot be employed with due regard to 
economy. 

(c) Ribbons for recruiting, &c. , , . 

(d) Occasional expenses incurred by enquirmg mto the character 

and antecedents of applicants for enlistment. . n 1 ac 

(e) Materials for the cleaning of recruiting premises (other than A.u. idb 
recruiting officers' offices and barrack rooms, provided for m 
paras. 501 and 657 respectively), except where the cost of cleamng 
h included in the rent paid for the premises. 

(/) Frames for recruiting posters. (These should be accounted a.O. 32 4 
for in a distribution list to be kept in the recruiting office.) 1912 

660. Petty expenses incurred on the recruiting service, not Petty 
included under the heads specffied in para. 659, or otherwise pro- oxpeDses. 
vided for by regulation, may also be charged to the contingent 

allowance. \ 

661. Except as provided in the Recruiting Regulations, the Advances 
amount allowed for the 'financial year should not be exceeded '^'^^f^^*^'" 
without the permission of the Ai-my Council, which should be a(,,;o„Qtg 
obtained before the money is expended. At the commencement 

of each month, Os.C. recruituig areas will di-aw upon the regimental 
paymaster for the amoimt which will probably be required during 
the month, and, on the last day of each quarter, they -ndll fiu-nish 
that officer with a Dr. and Cr. statement on A.F. 0 1720, showing 
all sums received from the cashier, and a detail of the various 
items on which the money has been expended, duly supported 
by receipts and any other necessary vouchers. This statement 
will be annexed as a youcher to the account of the regimental 
paymaster for the last month of each quarter. 

4. Care of Reservists' Clothing and Equipment. Eeservists' 

662. An allowance for the care of the arms of reservists will arms, 
be granted to Os.C. cavalry, artilleiy, engineer, infantry and A.S.C. "4 
depots, Os.C, R.G.A. and R.A.M.C. companies, Os.C. veterinarvj Reserve 
station hospitals at Aldershot, Bulford, and the Curragh, and the 265 
Army Ordnance Corps depot at Woolwich, at the monthly rate of] — ^-g-Q — 
Is. lOd, with an additional 4d. for each 100 (or fraction of 100) — p^j^ 
in excess of 199. A.O. 264 



1912 



180 



Mobiliza- 
tiun and 
regimontal 
stores. 
54 



Artillery 



4648 



AllOM'- 

ances 



98 



Allowances at the same rate will be granted for the care of 
(rt) reservists' clothing, and (/;) reservists' accoutrements. 

The above allowances will not be granted when less than 100 sets 
are stored together. 

663. An allowance for the care of the mobilization and 
regimental stores held on charge by units will be granted to Os.C. 
at the following monthly rates : — 

"•"For each battery of R.H.A. and R.F.A., and each s. d. 
heavy and mountain batter}', R.G.A. 7 6 

For R.E. units — 

" A " signal company 20 0 

" B " signal company 15 0 

Each field squadron and bridging train ... ... 10 0 

Each field company, signal squadron and railway 

company... ... ... ... ... ... ... 7 6 

Each field t roop, signal troop, signal compan}' with 
division, works (L. of C.) company and fortress 
company (for duty on L. of C.) ... ... ... 5 0 

A printing company ... ... ... ... ... .39 

For each regiment of cavalry or battalion of infantry' 10 0 



Objeot of 
allowaiicfi. 



A.O. 236 



1012 



Rates. 



IV.— LIBRARY ALLOWANCE. 

664. Library allowance is granted for the provision, repair, &c., 
of books, the supply of newspapers, periodicals and games, and 
in aid of the expenses of regimental libraries and reading rooms : 
the fees and subscriptions required being appropriated in aid of 
the expenses, instead of being credited to the public. The expenses 

- of garrison libraries will be met by contributions from the allowance 
^to units and by subscriptions, as laid down in the Rules for the 
Management of Garrison and Regimental Institutes. 

665. Library allowance will be granted at the following 3-early 
rates :— 



C-2 
^965" 
42 



Ord. Co ll. 

345 
A.O. 198 
1911 



School of Gunnery, Shoeburyness 

School of Musketry, Hythe ; Discharge depot ; and the 
recruits' recreation room. Central Recruiting Depot, 
London, S.W. ... ... 

Central Flying School 

Tower of London 

Ordnance College, Woolwich 



£ 
15 



10 
8 
7 
5 



0 



0 
0 
10 
0 



d. 
0 



School of Music. Kneller Hall 

IR.F.A., No. 4 depot 

„ Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 depots 



each 



5 0 0 
5 10 0 
5 0 0 



•When a battery has uo mobilization stores on charge .1/9 (ha]f rate) only 
will be allowed for regimontal stores. 



181 



Library Allowance. 



Each depot of R.G.A 

School of Gunneiy, Broughty Ferry 

Each squadron, battery, or company of the regular 
army, except at an infantry depot (see para. 666) ; 
each section of A.O.C. ; and the headquarters and 
detachments of Fortress Cos. of R.E. referred to 
in para. 667 ; depot of the R.H.A. ; the riding 
establishment, R.A. ; and the garrison artillery 
district establishments stationed at the Tower of 
London, and in the Mersey defences, and North 
China and Soudan detachments — 

With establishment of rank and file (including 
drummers, buglers, &c.), not exceeding 100 ... 
Over 100 and not exceeding 120 



£ 
3 
2 



s. 
10 
10 



ol 



6-2 



721 



A.O. 264 
1012 




Art. 



556G 



120 
140 
160 
180 
200 



140 
160 
180 
230 



10 
0 



3 10 



0 
10 

0 
10 



103 

390" 



62 



898 



The number of rank and file of the district establishment attached 
may be reckoned, for the purpose of fixing the rate of library 
allowance, as part of the establishment of rank and file of com- 
panies of garrison artillery. 

An allowance of 3s. a day will be granted to the R.A. library 
at Woolwich on account of the three servants employed there. 

An allowance of £5 a year will be granted to the A.V.C. 

666. Library allowance for infantiy depots will be allowed at infantry 
the following rates : — dep6ts. 

£ 

2 battalion depots 10 yearly. 

4 „ „ 20 „ 

Rifle deijot 4(j» 

667. Libraiy allowance at the rate of £1 a year -will be allowed Signal 
for each signal troop R.E., and for each of the following head- J^^^Pj 
quarters and detachments of fortress companies of R.E. : — , quarters 

The headquarters of companies at Alderney, Tyne, and Forth. and defaoh- 
The detachments at Guernsey, Gravesend, Cardiff, Mersey, meuts.R.E. 
Berehaven, Lough Swilly, Humber, Tees, and Clyde. — " 

668. In special cases the G.O.C. will assign such allowance in Special 
aid of a library, other than a garrison or regimental library, as may I ^ q ' .2;^g 
appear to him just and reasonable, having regard to the numbers' jy^g 
using the library, and to the rates laid down for regimental libraries. 

This allowance will not, however, exceed £10 a year for each library. 

669. The allowance will be charged quarterly in advance on the Charges 
1st January, 1st April, Ist July, and 1st October. 

allowance. 



Outfit Allowance. 



182 



v.— CAMP KIT ALLOWANCE. 
Provision " gVO. A camp kit of approved pattern, as laid down in the 

I" ■ Equipment Regulations, Part I., will be provided by : — 
Oificers — When first gazetted into the regular forces or officers 
appointed from the special reserve and territorial force for 
■iy06 4 years' continuous service in the Royal Flying Corps. 

Members of the Q.A.I.M.N.S. — On the first occasion on which 
they are ordered on active service. 
The actual initial cost up to a maximum of £5 15s. will, upon 
production of the receipted bill supported by A.F. O 1678, be 
allowed in the case of : — 

Officers. — B}' the command paymaster as laid down in para. 18. 
Members of Q.A.I.M.N.S. — By the paj'master issuing their pay. 
The kit will be maintained at the expense of the owners. 

VI.— OUTFIT ALLOWANCE. 

^fti'^'T'i ^ officer who has retired from the army, or from the 

oalled to^" militia, yeomanry or volunteers, or from the special reserve of 
service. officers, or the territorial force, and is taken into employment with 

the regular forces duiing a time of national emergency, may be 

granted, by the Army Council, a sum not exceeding £100 in aid 

of his outfit including camp Idt. 

This rule does not apply to officers who are, at the time of 

re-employment, upon the effective establishment of the army. 
Inspectors. 672. Inspectors of ordnance machineiy and inspectors of 

mechanical transport will, on confirmation of their first appoint- 

Iment, be granted the sum of £100 in aid of their outfit. 
673. A warrant officer or N.C.O. granted a commission as second 
lieutenant in the cavalry, infantry, or A.S.C. will be allowed the 
Vo" 1 £150 in aid of his outfit. Other waiTant officers or N.C.Os. 

— jgj^ — granted commissions will be allowed the sum of £100 in aid of their 
8 outfit. 

Allow- 
ances. 
89 

First con- 674. In cases where the regimental mess is not furnished at the 
tribution public expense, a quartermaster, riding-master or director of music 
meiTtar commissioned from the ranks will also be granted such a sum (not 
mess fund, exceeding in any case 30 days' pay) as shall be actually required 

as h]s first contribution to the regimental mess fund. 
Charges 675. Charges will be vouched by proof of payment, and if the 
all wance ^^"^^^^^ issued under para. 671, by the War Office letter 
" ' authorizing the issue, and will be made in the account in which the 

first charge for the officrr's pay appears. 

VII.— ALLOWANCE FOR MISCELLANEOUS STORES. 

cleanhig"*^ 676. A money allowance will be issued to regiments, battaUons 
materials, and other units, for the provision of miscellaneous stores and 



1^3 



Miscellaneous Stores. 



cleaning materials for their orderly rooms, quartermaster's stores 
and offices, and all their other regimental offices, at the following 
rates : — 

Yearly. 
£ 5. d. 
... 3 8 0 each squadron. 
... 2 4 0 



J 



Regiments of Household Cavalry 
Regiments of Cavalry of the Line 
Royal Artillery — 

1 -n- n f batteries ... 
Horse and Field {depots ... 

1' heavy and mountain 
. batteries 
Garrison ^ companies 

Ldepots 
Riding Establishment ... 
Adjutant's detachment, Shoeburyness 

Establish- U^ondon and Woolwich 

ments. 1 Jersey ^ 1 

X , . r Pekin ... 1 

Detachments jgo^dan J 

Royal Malta Artillery, Hong Kong — 
Singapoi-e Battahon and Sierra 
Leone Company R.A. 

Companies, depots, and troops, other 
than signal troops, of R.E. 

Signal troop R.E. 

Headquarters and detachments of for- 
tress companies R.E., referred to in 
para. 667 

Royal Flying Corps (military wing) . ... 



^ £ 5. (7. 



h 2 5 0 each. 



0 0 each. 



0 18 0 each company. 

2 .5 0 each. 
0 18 0 each. 



Ordnance College, Woolwich 

BattaKons of Foot Guards (including 

16s for the pay office) 

Battalions of Infantry of the hne 

West India Regiment ... ... ..." 

West African Regiment ... ... ... ^ 

Infantry depots — 

2 battalion depots 

4 ,, ,, ... ... ••• 

Rifle depot 
Army Service Corps — 

Remount companies ... 

Transport depot, Woolwich 



0 19 0 „ 

1 15 0 per squadron. 

2 5 0 



54 

Artillery 
4648 ' 



48 



Artillery 
5566 



62 



935 



48 



Misc. 



415 
42 



Oi-d. Ool 



2 12 0 each company, 
1 16 0 

0 18 0 

3 16 0 each. 
7 12 0 „ 

15 4 0 

0 19 0 each company, 

5 15 0 



345 
103 



Inf. 



399 



57 

Gen. No. 
2385 



Miscellaneous Allowances. 



184 



Other transport depots and the supply 

depot 
Otlier companies 
Companies of R.A.M.C. at Bermuda, 
Ceylon, South China, Jamaica, 
Mauritius, and Straits Settlements 

Other companies of R.A.M.C 

A.V.C 



Army Ordnance Corps Depot, Wool- 
wich ... 



Yearly. 
£ s. 
4 5 
2 5 



d. 

0 each. 
0 .. 



10 0,. 

2 5 0 „ 

0 19 Oeach chief 
station veter- 
inary hospital. 



3 7 G 



VIII. -ALLOWANCE 



FOR UPKEEP 
ARMS, &c. 



OF PRACTICE 



677. An allowance will be granted at the following ma.ximura 

rates : — 

{a) To provide for minor repairs to practice swords, trifling 
repairs to gloves, supply of chalk, resin, sand, sand- 
paper, &c. — 



Headquarters Gymnasium, Aldershot 

r Royal Military Academy 



Yearh 

£ 6.' 
2 

2 
2 
2 
2 



Gymnasium -l „ „ College 

L Cavalry School 
Cavalry regiment "1 in which swordsman- J 
„ depot J ship is taught \ 
(6) To provide for minor repairs to bayonet-fighting equip 
ment and supply of chalk, resin, sand, sandpaper, &c.— 

Yearl}-. 



0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 10 



d. 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 



£ s. 

0 15 
3 0 

1 0 
3 0 



R.E. Training Battalion ... 
Battalion of Foot Guaid^i ... 

Depot „ „ 

Battalion of Infantry 
Infantry Depots — 

2-battalion depot ... ... ... ... 0 10 

4 „ „ 0 15 

Rifle depot 10 

'X'he allowance will be issued to the O.C. the unit or officer 
i/c the gj'mnasium, as the case may be, and it will be jiaid by 
command paymasters by instalments in advance on the first day 
of each quarter. 

Claims will be supported by a certificate that the allowance will 
be expended, in the quarter then commencing, on the services for 
vvliich it is issued. 



18.*) 



Miscellaneous Allowances. 



IX.-ALLOWANCE FOR SOLDIERS' FUNERALS. 

678 The actual expenses necessarily incurred for the burial of 
soldiere dying while serving, or in a military hospital after discharge, 
•will be borne by the public. 

679 Charges not exceeding £1 15s. Od. will be admitted without 
special authority, but if they exceed that amount they will bo 
supported by an explanation of the circumstances and by the 
authority of the G.O.C. 

X.— ALLOWANCE FOR REGIMENTAL BANDS. 

680 Allowances at the under- mentioned rates will be granted 
to each rec^iment of household cavalry and cavalry of the hne, to 
the Roy af Regiment of Artillery, to the Corps of R-E-, to each 
regiment of Foot Guards, and to each Iiattalion, &c., of infantry of 
the line and local troops abroad for maintaining a band :— 

£ 

Household Cavaky 80 Yearly. 

Cavalry of the Line 

R.A. Mounted Band 

„ Regimental Band 

„ (Garrison) Bands at Sheemess, Ply- 
mouth, Portsmouth and Gibraltar 

Royal Malta Artillery 

R.E 

Grenadier Guards 

Coldstream Guards 

Scots Guards 

Irish Guards 

Infantry of the Line and West India 
Regiment 

West African Regiment 

Royal Military College ... 

Special Reserve when mobihzed 



Expcndi- 
tnro 

admissible. 
Amount. 



Eites, 



80 
160 
160 
100 

160 
160 
100 
420 
420 
390 
280 

160 
80 

160 
80 



30 



Gen. No. 



491.5 
A.O. 175 



1914 



A reduction in these allowances at the rate of £70 year will 
be made in the case of a regimeht or corps to which a director of 
music is appointed. 

The allowance may be charged quarterly by the agent if there 

be one. 

XI.— ALLOWANCE TO PUPILS OF THE ROYAL 
MILITARY SCHOOL OF MUSIC FOR ATTEND 
ING CONCERTS. 

681. An allowance not exceeding £100 a year will be granted Amount, 
to the commandant of the Royal Military School of Music to defray 
the expenses of pupils attending concerts. The distribution will 
be made by the commandant. 



Miscellaneous Allowances. 



Spuuial 
allowanco. 



2- t 
Loudon 
176 



Members 
of Q.A. 
I.M.N.S. 
Besoi've 
on active 
•ervice. 



Gea. No. 



The 

matrou-in- 
cliief and 
pnucipal 
matron. 
Servants. 



XII.— ALLOWANCE FOR NURSING SERVICE AT 
MILITARY HOSPITALS. 

682. An allowance in lieu of board and wa.shing at the rate of 
156'. a week at a home station, or of 21 «. a wec1t at a station abroad 
will be granted to each member of the Q.A.I.M.N.S. This allow- 
ance will be reduced to 35. 6d. a week when free messing or hospital 
diets and extras are provided. A special allowance for the pro- 
vision of clothing will also be granted, except to the matron-in-chief, 
at the following rates : — ' 



£ 
9 
8 
8 



8. d. 

0 0 

0 0 

5 0 



Annual clothing and cloak allowance abroad 
" )> M ,. at home 

Outfit allowance when proceeding on active service 

The above allowances in lieu of board and washing, and for the 
provision of clothing, will be granted to each member of the 
Q.A. I.M.N.S. reserve while employed at a military hospital in time 
of war. The outfit allowance of £8 5s. Od. will also be payable to 
each member proceeding on active service. 

The annual clothing and cloak allowance is issuable in advance. 
Payment of the full grant on the first and subsequent anniversaries 
of the date of the appointment of the recipient ^vill, however, onlv 
be made on the production of a certificate that she has no intention 
of retiring Avithin six months of such date. In the event of retire- 
ment within the period covered by the certificate the question of 
a refund of the unexpended portion of the allowance will be referred 
for the decision of the Army Council. In the absence of such 
certificate the allowance will be issuable half-yearly in advance. 
The allowance will not be paid if, on the date on which it becomes 
issuable, the lady concerned is on sick leave which has extended 
beyond 6 months. It will be resumed from the date on which 
she rejoins for duty, and such date will govern future annual 
issues. 

The matron-in-chief and principal matron Q.A.I.M.N.S. em- 
ployed at the War Office will be 'entitled to the allowances of 
their class. 

Except at stations where the issue of an allowance for servants is 
authorized by the Army Council, an allowance of 10s. 6d. a week 
for board, &c. will be granted for each servant appointed to attend 
on members of the Q.A.I.M.N.S., and for each servant empWed in 
a hospital for military families, or in a hospital or ward for infectious 
diseases. 

The charge of the allowance for the board, &c., of the servant 
will be supported by a certificate that the whole amount has been 
expended on the specific service for which it is provided. 

The provisions of this para, will apply to all matrons, sisters and 
staff nurses temporarily einployed with the Q.A.I.M.N.S. 



187 



Miscellaneous Allowances. 



683. 



A matron or a charge nurse permanently employed m aNu.^es^^^^ 

hospital for military famiHes, or in a hospital or ward for infectious ^.^.^^^.^ 
diseases, will be granted an allowance of £5 per annum for the .families, 
p ovision of uniform, but the issue of the first allowance to a and m 
newlv appointed nurse will be deferred until she is confirmed in |;oga\ J- 
her Appointment. Payment of subsequent issues will be made 
on the anniversary of the date of appointment subject to the A^0_U3_ 
production of the certificate referred to in para. 682. An allowance 1911 
in iieu of board and washing at the rate of 15s. a week at a home ^4 
station, and 21s. at a station abroad, wiU also be granted. This 
allowance will be reduced to 3s. Qd. a week when free messing or 
hospital diets and extras are provided. 



Eastern 
"433 
24 



London 



684 The allowance for board and washing is issuable during ^hen 
any period of leave, including sick leave, for which full or reduced issuable, 
rates of pay are admissible. 

XIII -ALLOWANCE FOR LOCAL PURCHASE OF ADDI- 
TIONAL ARTICLES OF EQUIPMENT AND DECORA- 
TIVE ARTICLES FOR HOSPITAL WARDS. 

685 An initial allowance, not exceeding 5s. per bed, will be Initial 
granted to each new or re- appropriated hospital, nursed by allowance. 
Q.A.I.M.N.S. in which the number of beds forming the approved 
accommodation is not less than 100. , i. j u j 

A similar initial allowance will be granted tor e^ch bed added, 
by War Office authority, to existing hospitals nursed by Q.A.LM.N.^. 
in which the total approved accommodation is not less than 100 beds. 

686. A subsequent allowance for maintenance and additional Annua 
purchases, not exceeding Is. per bed per annum, will be gran ex^ to allowance 
aU hospitals nursed by Q.A.I M.N.S. in which the number of beds te„ance. 
forming the approved accommodation is not less than 100. 

687 These allowances will not be issued in cash, but will be No cnsh 
expended in payment of bills incurred by medical officers i/o issue, 
hospitals in the purchase of : — 

(a) Articles of equipment (additional to those allowed by the 

approved schedules of hospital equipment) of a type 
calculated to afford increased comfort to the sick. 

(b) Small useful or decorative articles of the class which tend 

to improve the appearance of hospital wards, and 
generally brighten military hospital surroundings. 

688 The initial and annual allowances will not both be issuable initial and 
in the same financial year. Any sums not actually disbursed in annual^^^^ 
the financial year in which the allowance is issuable cannot be ^^^^ 
added to the allowances for the ensuing financial year, and must issuable in 
be regarded as forfeited. same year. 



Miscellaneous Allowances. 



Purchas- 
ing ofiicnrs 
rosponsible 
for ox- 
pcuditure. 



Expemli- 
turo to bo 
sliown 
separatnly. 



Repairs. 



^.0. 198 
1911 

Piirpo*!e 
of errant 

Amount 
of grant. 



Date of 
issue. 



Shorthaml 
writers;. 



Witnesses' 
fees. 



689. Purchasing officers will be held reHponsihIc that i\u- rnoiiev 
is expended solely for the purposes detailed in para. 687. They 
will bo hold personally liable for : — 

(a) Any expenditure incurred in the purchase of articles 

which the G.O.C. may consider unsuited for the purpose 
for which the allowances are granted. 

(b) Any expenditure in excess of the initial or annual 

allowances. 

All bills will, before payment, be submitted for the apnroval of 
the G.O.C. 

690. The articles purchased from these allowances must be shown 
separately at the end of inventories of hospital equipment, in the 
same manner as " gifts." All bills submitted for payment mu.st be 
supported by a certificate to the effect that the articles have been 
so accounted for. 

691. Any necessary repairs which can be executed in local A.O.D. 
workshops may be carried out at the expense of the public, provided 
the cost of repair is reasonable, having regard to the original value 
of the article. Replacements of stores purchased from these 
allowances will not be made by the A.O.D. 

XIV. — ALLOWANCE FOR APPARATUS FOR TEACHING 
ELEMENTARY SCIENCE IN ARMY SCHOOLS. 

692. An initial grant is given under War Office authority for the 
purpose of providing the necessary apparatus in Army schools 
where the teaching of elementary science is authorized. 

693. An allowance of lO.s. per annum will be issued to the O.C. 
each school so provided with elementary science apparatus. This 
allowance mil be expended on the provision of consiunable material 
for, and the renewal of breakages of, the apparatus. 

694. The allowance will be issued on the 1st October annually 
in advance to the O.C. each school concerned, the first allowance being 
issued on the 1st October in the year following the date of payment 
of the initial grant. Claims will be supported by a certificate 
that the allowance will be expended, in the year then commencing, 
on the services for which it is issued. 

XV. — PAYMENTS FOR SHORTHAND WRITERS AND 

FEES OF WITNESSES. 

695. At the trial of an officer by general court-martial, or in 
other cases when the evidence is hkely to be voluminous, the G.O.C. 
;nay, if he considers there are no fully competent military shorthand 
v/riters available, authorize the employment of civihan professional 
shorthand writers. 

696. Before the engagement of expert witnesses the amount and 
reasonableness of the fee required should be ascertained, and the 
authority of the G.O.C. obtained. 



180 



Acc— Bag 



INDEX. 



2 



PAKA 

Accessories, fuel for 202, 211--213 

Accommodation — 

classes of, while travelliui? 

mess hire allowance (see Mess) ... ... ••• ... 29u-aui 

quarters (see Quarters). 

Active Service- 
indemnification for losses on ... ... ... ••• ... ool 

rations, special scale ... ... ■•• ' ••• ••■ ■•• °o 

Adjutant, territorial force, temporary rank docs not affijot 
rates... 

Aeroplanes, travelling allowance ... "... ... ••■ •.• 401 

Africa, South, colonial allowance ... ... ... ...306, 308 

Africa, "West Coast (see West Coast of Africa). 

Ag-ency, charges for, on embarkation or disembarkation ... ... 482 

Aide-de-Camp, allowances during absence of G.O.C. ... ... 5 

Aides-de-Camp to Tbe King-, travelling expenses ... ... 31.8 

Airing- buildings, rooms, &c., fuel for ... ... ... ... 250 

Airships, travelling allowance ... ... ... ... .•■ 401 

Allo-wances — 

cessation of ... ... ... .•• ... ••• •■■ 4 

commencement of ... ••• .•• .•• ••• ••■ 4 

,, on promotion ... ... ... ... ... 

continuance of higher rates issuable under previous regulations 10 

issue and charge of ... ... ... ... ... _ ... 18-21 

not claimed within one year, special sanction for issue required 11 

„ to be drawn in more than one capacity ... ... ... 3 

Animals — 

indemnification for loss of ... ... ... ... ... 547 

purchase of ... ... ... ... ... ... ••• _ 625 

Apparatus for teaching elementary BciGnce in schools, allowance... 692-G94 

Arm Chests — 

contingent allowance for repair qf ... ... ... ... 657 

convej'auce of, weight allowed ... ... ... ... ... 474 

Arms, browning, fuel for ... ... ... ... ... ... 203 

Army Rank, rates of allowances in respect of ... ... ... 2 

Arrest, soldiers in, billets ... ... ... ... ... ... 90 

Attaches, military, travelling allowances ... .... ... 400 

,, „ expenses on appointment, &c. ... 331 

Auctioneers, sale of cast horses ... ... ... ... ... 629-636 



Back Rations, issue forbidden ... ... ... ... ... 65 

Bag-gage — 

conveyance of — 

agency, charges for ... ... ... - ... ... 482 



190 



SeLgg&ge — cont 'timed. 

con V(ij'aii(;o of — rontinue/l. PAUA. 

bullock iniiiks foi' kits, &c. (scliodule B) ... ... ... 553 

change of station during leave ... ... ... ... 475 

charges, adjiistmont of ... ... ... ... ^j^i; 

„, form for " 4^4 

„ rates, goods train, detached officers and .warraut 

ofHccu's ... ... ... ... 47<) 

charges, rates, good.s train, troops ... ... ... 47^) 

II I, passenger train, personal ... ... ... 4^0 

„ vouchors for claims ... ... ... ... 4)^5 

civilian subordinates ... ... ... ... ... 472 

custom house and dock company servants, charges for 

labour ... ... ... ... ... ... 4^1 

discharged men not granted ... ... ... ... 473 

dock tolls, duties, oxoniptions from ... ... 

leave, change of station during ... ... ... . .ly-, 

railway rates 478-480 

regimental stores ... ... ... ... ... 474 47^^ 

reserve, soldiers transferred to ... ... ... 473 

scale of personal baggage, civilian subordinates ... ... 472 

•I 11 officers ... ... ... ... 470 

„ „ soldiers ... ... ... ... 471 

„ regimental stored ... .. ... ... ... 474 

sea voyage, conveyance ... ... ... ... ... 4^^ 

packing... ['[ 477 

Southampton station and docks, haulage chai'ges ... 428 

vouchers for... ... ... ... ... ... 4^5 

warehousing, charges for ... ... ... ... ... 

loss of, when indemnification not granted ... ... ... 54f< 

scales of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... _ 553 

Balloons, travelling allowance ... ... ... ... 40^ 

Band — 

allowance for ... ... ... ... ... ggQ 

reduction in rates when director of music is appointed to 

regiment or corps ... ... ... ... ... .._ ggfj 

Band Property, indemnilication for loss 
Barrack detention rooms (see Prison, &c.). 
Barrack furniture, indemnification for loss of 



5(;0 



Barracks, fuel for airing of ... ... ... ..' '." 256 

Bathrooms, fuel for ... ... ... ... \ ... 204 213 

Bermuda — ' " "' " ' 

colonial allowance ... ... ... ... 3qq jjQg 

rates of lodging money ... ... ... ... ... '278 

Berths, sleeping, charges for, when admissible ... ... ..." 334 

" " " 11 inadmissible ... ... . . 3«4 

Bibles — 

charges for replacing ... ... ... ... ^gg 

indents for ... ... ... ... " jg., 

supply of ::: :;; ;;: ^^g 

Bicycles, conveyance of ... ,.. ... ... ... 47g 

Billets- 
horses in, charges for ... ... ... ... . jgj 

on the march, rations ... ... ... ... ... " 04 

soldiers in arrest, subsistence ... ... ... ... 90 

travelling allowance, to officers and warrant officers ... ... 396 

Billiard Rooms, not entitled to fuel ... ... ... [\[ 213 

Binding, cost charged against Stationery OfiBce vote ..." 578 

Birth Certificates, in connection with separation allowance ..." 123 



191 



Boa— Cey, 



PAHA. 

Board — 

iuvestigation by, of accidents to liorses ... 
„ " „ claims for losses 
Books (see also Stationery) — 
army, cliaplains, issue to, of 
„ issue of, at public expense 
„ master-gumier, issue to, of 
„ military hospitals, &c., issue to, of 
indents for and supply of 
left at station on transfer of troops 
military, regulations as to issue of 
professional, indemuiflcation for loss of 
religious, supply of 
supply, when due 
useless, disposal of 
Boys, messing allowance 
Brevet Kank, does not affect rate 
Brig-adier-General, rates of allowances 
Browning Arms, fuel for 

c 



Cab Hire — 

general instructions ... ... ... ••• •■. ... 380-?84 

officers receiving horse or chair allowance not entitled to ... 008 

receipted vouchers for ... ... ... ... ... ... 4"il 

Camp — 

fuel and light 247-'.^50 

kit 670, C71 

Candles (see also liight) — 

active service ... ... ... ... ... •■• ... '-55 

canvas, under ... ... ... ... ... .■■ ••. "-47 

equivalent of oil ... ... ... ... ... •.. ... 192 

minor sei vices ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 220 

miscellaneous services ... ... ... ... ... ... 221 

offices 21!) 

quality of ... ... ... ■•- ••• ■•• ••. 19S 

when supplied ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 218-221' 

Cape of Good Hope, rates of lodging money ... ... ... 278 

Carriage of Stores, Clothing, Parcels- 
carrier's note ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 488 

claim, form of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . 489 

detailed instructions ... ... ... ... ... ... 487 

empties ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 490 

passenger train ... ... ... ' ... ... ... ... 492 

- payment for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 488 

railway rates 478-480, 490 

„ „ articles excluded from mileage rates ... ... 490 

„ „ combustibles ... ... ... ... .... 490 

„ „ owner's risk ... ... ... ... ... 491, 492 

„ "smalls" ... 490 

„ „ washing, articles sent for ... ... ... , 490 

regimental stores, weights ... ... ... 474 

Cast Horses (see also Horses) — 

rules as to ... .,, ... ... ... ... 627 

sale of .... ... ../ 628-638 

Ceylon — 

colonial allowance ... ... ... ... t„ ... -306 

„ leave ... 307, 308 



610 

548, 564, 565 
.596 

... 577, .578 
.592 
59i 
5&0-.583 

603 
555 

... 582, 598 
586 
602 
93 
2 
2 

203 



Cey— Coa 192 



Ceylon — continued. I'ama. 

lioi'HO iiiui fora;?o allowance ... ... ... ... ...170, 171 

., coi tificatt! as to, uiineceBBary ... ... ... ... 171 

orticnrs in ruceipt of horse allowance not entitled to horse 

hire, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .338 

ratiiKof IdilKinf; money ... ... ... ... ... ... *27K 

Kiirvants' allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... r>'J()-,W3 

Chair Allowance in (Jhina ... ... ... ... ... 109, 33>< 

Channel Islands, treated as Home Station.s ... ... ... 9 

Chapels and Schools, cleaninf^ ... ... ... ... ...499,600 

Chaplains — 

(piarters, payment for ... ... ... ... ... ... nyi 

stationery, books, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... 5y5 

Chargrers (roo also Horses) — 

shoeinf;' allowance.: ... ... ... ... ... ... (J'ili 

supply of... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... G04-ti24 

Charg'ing' allowances, general instructions as to ... ... 18-21 

Children — 

railway and steamboat fares ... ' ... ... ... ... 413 

separation allowance ... ... ... ... ... 104,110-123 

China — 

certificate as to horses, unnecessary ... ... ... ... 171 

chair allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 109, 338 

colonial ,, ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 300 

„ ' „ leave 307. HOH 

servant allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... 5-20-533 

Civil Employment ... ... ... ... ... ... •> 

Civil Gaol, subsistence of prisoners in ... ... ... ... 91 

Civilian — subordinates (see Subordinates). 

Civilians, travelling regulations when applicable to ... ... 310 

Claims — 

abroad, officers and soldiers leaving a station, adjustment of 1-^ 

indemnification for losses, procedure ... ... ... ... o62-5G.t 

travelling, adjustment of ... ... ... ... ... 425-429 

voucher for, by whom endorsed ... ... ... ... ... 12 

Class of Accommodation ... ... ... ... ... 378 

Classification for allowances ... ... ... ... ... 1 

Cleaning:— 

chapels and schools ... ... ... ... ... ...499,500 

materials, allowance for providing ... ... ... ... 076 

,, ban-ack rooms, contingent allowance ... ... 057 

offices 501-504, 676 

pharmacies ... ... ... ... ... ... 499,600 

special allowance... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50O 

Clerg-ymen, olBciating, travelling expenses ... ... ... .332 

Cloak and Clothing: Allowance, Q.A.I.M.N.S. 682 

Cloak-room Fees ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 384 

Clothing — 

allowance, Q.A.I. M.N.S. ... ... ... • ... ... 682 

carriage of, rates and claims ... ... ... ... ... 487-490 

reservists, allowance for care of ... ... ... ... 662, 663 

Coal (see also Fuel)— 

camp ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...-247.248 

equivalents ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 192 

extra, for wooden barracks or huts ... ... ... ... -iOO 

„ Great Britain, damp or exposed positions ... ... 258 

Ireland, in cold and damp -weather ... ... ... 257 

first quality ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 191 

forges, regimental ... ... ... ... ... ... 20S 



193 



Coa— Det 



Coal (soe also Vnel)— continued. paua. 

miscellaneous services ... ... ... ... ... ■•• 221 

scale of weekly issues 195-205 

B.M.A. aud R.M.0 20G 

second quality, additional quantity as equivalent to first quality 192 

„ to be included in vouchers... 240 

Cobs (see Horses). 

Coke- 
scale of weekly issues ... ... _ .-• ... ... ... 195--205 

services, miscellaneous, for which issued ... ... ... 221 

Colonial Allowance — 

countries in which drawn ... ... ... ... ... ^ 30(5 

leave ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••■ ••• ••• 307, 308 

passage on duty from one pari of command to anot' or ... 309 

rates, and to whom issued ... ... ... ... ... 306 

sick leave... ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 308 

Colonial Governor — 

table allowance when drawn by 0.0. acting as ... ... ... 651 

when allowances may bo drawn ... ... ... ... 2 

Committee, officers' travelling expenses ... ... ... ... 813 

Compensation for Losses (see Losses). 

Consolidated Eates of Pay, allowances admissible in case of 

officers drawing ... ... ... ... ... ■•■ ■•• 1 

Contingent Allowance — 

care of reservists' clothing and equipment ... ... ... 662,663 

field intelligence... ... ... ... ... ... ... 652 

recruiting ... ... ... ... ••■ .•• 659-661 

regimental — 

expenses defrayed by ... ... ... ... ... 657 

rates, general ... ... ... ... ... ... 653 

,, infanti-y dep6t ... ... ... ... ... 654 

„ special depot or detachment ... ... ... 656 

section of company... ... ... ... ... ... 665 

sepai"ate account to be kept ... ... ... ... ... 658 

Convalescent Homes, travelling expenses of officers ... ... 823 

Conveyance (see Bagrgag-e, Carriage of Stores, & 
Conveyance of Soldiers (see Passages). 

Cooking: Classes, rations for ... ... ... ... ... 32 

Cycles — 

conveyance of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 475 

travelling allowances for officers, soldiers aud civilians 346, 348, 356 

Cyprus, rates of lodging money ... ... ... ... ... 278 



D 

Deceased officer or man — 

indemnification for losses, claims by representatives ... ... 546, 558 

telegram to next of kin ... ... ... ... ... ... 575 

Decorative Articles, for hospital wards ... ... ... 685-691 

Definitions of terms ... ... ... ... ... ...tagb xi 

Departmental Subordinates ... ... ... ... ... 8 

Deserters- 
indemnification not granted for losses through desertion ... 548 
subsistence when in arrest ... ... ... ... ... 403 

travelling expenses of, and of police escort ... ... 865-367,426 

Detention — 

barracks (see Prisons). 

lodging monej' during ... ... ... ... ... ... 284 

(B 10575) H 



Die— Fam 



194 



PAHA. 

Diet, Prison (si^e Prison, &c., rations). 
Diets for Sick (soo Hospitals, ratioDs). 
Dischargred Soldiers — 

coiivoyance 

subsistence in hospital ... 

travellinf? allowance 
Disinfectants 
Dock Chargres — 

bagg;age, ofDcin's' and soldiers' ... 

,, officers' families, inadmissible 
Documents, useless, 'disposal of ... 
Drawing- Materials — 

indent for 

issue of at public expense 



Effective officers, &c., allowances granted as a rule only to ... 4 

Effects, deceased officers and soldiers, carriage at public expense... 476 
EgvPt — 

colonial allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... 30G 

non-European servants allowed to officers ... ... ... 526 

Embarkation- 
delay in, additional rations ... ... ... ... ... 33 

officers awaiting ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4 

Empties — 

carriers' notes for ... ... ... ... ... ... 488 

rates for returning ... ... ... ... ... ... 490 

Enemy, indeuiuification for property destroyed to prevent 

capture by ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 551 

Equipment — 

horse, conveyance of ... ... ... ... ... ... 470 

„ return of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 624 

indemnification for loss of ... ... 546-548, 550-551, 553-555, 51)4 

purchase of, for hosj^ital wards .. ... ... ... ... 685-691 

reservists, allowance for care of ... ... ... ... 662,663 

scales of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 553 

Equivalents — 

scale for forage rations ... ... ... ... ... ... 160,166 

„ fuel and light ... ... ... ... ... ... 192 

,, hospital rations ... ... ... ... ... 65 

„ provision rations ... ... ... ... ... 37,38 

table of .37. 38 

Examinations, travelling expenses of officers attending ... 324-326 

Explosives, conveyance of ... ... ... ... ... 490 



Families (see also Married, establishment) — 

adopted children not included in term ... ... ... ... 94 

cab hire, soldiers ... ... ... ... ... ... 382 

class of accommodation when travelling ... ... ... 378 

death of soldier while abroad ... ... ... ... ... 105 

definition of, officer ... ... ... ... ... ... 442 

,, „ soldier ... ... ... ... ... ... 94 

fuel and light ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 246 



.. 362,364 
73 

.. 402, 429 

505 

481 
470 
602 

582 
677 



^95 Fam— For 

Families (see also Married, establishmeut)— eo/tiinued para. 

hospitals, diet ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

„ stoppages ... _ ... •■• ••• •■• ■•• '° 

in cases of detention or desertion ... ... ... ... 10b 

invalided, soldiers sent home with ... ... ... ... 370 

losses by soldiers, indemniflcatiou only granted exceptionally ... 561 

medical comforts where no military hospital ... ... ... 72 

passages, messing contributions for ... ... ... ...102-465 

„ officers ••• ••• ■•• ••• ••• ■142-453 

passages, quartermasters ... ••■ ••• ••■ ••• '145 

soldiers 455-459 

provisions at stations abroad ... ••• ■•• ••• ••• 22 

separation allowance (see Separation Allowance). 

travelling allowance 404, 405, 406 

expenses, quartermaster class ... ... ... 339 

soldiers 368-372, 378 

West Coast of Africa, need not accompany soldier to ... 459 
Fares (see Railway, and Steamboat.) 

Fees to expert witnesses ... ... ... •.• ••• ••. 696 

Field Allowance- 
advances ... •■• •■• ••• ••• ... 

„ not recoverable ... ... ... ... ••• 496 

claims for... ... ... ... ••. ... ... ■•• 498 

issues ordinary ... ... ... •.• ... ... ••• 495 

local allowances admissible with advances ... ... ... 496 

manoeuvres, &c ('^h 493-494 

mess hire allowance not admissible with ... ... ... 301 

promotion on, (fee. ... ... ■.• ... ••• ••• 497 

rates, scale of ... ... •.• •■. ■.• ••• ••■ 498 

travelling allowance, when admissible with ... ... ... 496 

when granted ... ... ... •■• ••• .•• ••• 493 

Field Intelligence Contingent Allowance ... ... ... 652 

Field Service — 

field allowiince (see Field Allowance). 

forage ... ... ... ... •.• ... ••• ••■ 125 

hospital diets ... ... ... •.- ... ••• ... 68 

provisions, iron ration ... ... ... ... ... ... 36 

„ issue and accounts ... ... ... ... ... 48 

,, scale of rations ... ... ... ... ... 35 

„ special issues ... ... ... ... ... 23 

tobacco ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ••• 35 

Flour, substituted for bread ration ... ... ... ... 29 

Forage- 
abroad 166-171 

accounting for, mode of ... ... ... ... ... ... 172-182 

active service, officer ordered on ... ... ... ... 155 

billets, horse, how shown in forage account ... ... ... 165 

cessation of appointment ... ... ... ... ••. 155 

Ceylon 170, 171 

China 169, 171 

classification, not applicable to ... ... ... ... ... 1 

completion of course at staff college ... ... ... ... 155 

death of officer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 155 

demands for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 173 

departmental officers on probation ... ... ... ... 147 

draught horses, issues for ... ... ... ... ...156, 157 

equivalents, scale of ... ... ... ... ... ...160, 166 

extra issues ... ... ... ... ... ... 148, 157, 158 



(B 10575) 



For— Fue 



196 



Forag'e — cojilinuetl. paua. 

iiuld service, liorses allowed ... ... ... ••• ... I'io 

„ tomporaiy, at hoiiic ... ... ••• ... 150 

grazing ... ... ... ... ■■• ••• ••• ••• J"*> 

horses, cffcctivo), limited to ... ..• •■• ••• ••• 149 

„ imiiil)ers allowed ... ••• ••• •■■ ••• 125-14() 

kind, issiKis in, abroad ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• IW) 

„ at homo 15C-l(il 

„ option of drawing ... ... ... ... _ lfi4 

leave of abHoncn, during... ... .•• ••• ■•• ••• 15I-I.54 

money allowance in lieu, abroad ... ••• •■■ ...lii7, ]i;8 

„ after cessation of appointment ... 155 

at liome 125, 14!), ICI 

,j „ „ on rcconnaissanco duty ... ... U>H 

mules, at home, ration ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••■ 156 

officers entitled to 127-14(j 

pas.sago, while waiting for ... ... ••• ••■ ••• 165 

probation, departmental officer on ... ... ... ■■• 147 

ration return, how rendered ... ... ••. ••• ••• 101 

„ scale of, abroad ... ... ... •.• ••• •■■ l*"'** 

., „ at home, distribution of ... ... ... _ l.i!» 

,^ „ „ draught horses ... ... ... 15G, lb7 

„ „ equivalents ... ... ... ... I'jO 

„ „ horses, during absence of officer ... 151 

„ ,, ,, mules... ... ... ... ••• 15<> 

remount depSts ... ... ... ... ••• ••■ ••• ''^ 

staff olBcer, continuance of forage after cessation of appoint- 
ment ... ... ... ... ••• ••• 155 

,, included in consolidated pay ... ... ... 1'.^'5 

Straits Settlements 1"0. I'l 

West Coast of Africa 1<>9. I'l 

Forms- 
army, chaplains, issue to, of ... ... ... ... .•• 595 

./ indents for £80-584,597 

„ issues of, at public expense ... ... •■• ••• 5< / 

,, master-g-unuer, issue to, of ... ... ■•■ oO'I 

„ militavy'hospitals, &c., issue to, of ... ■•■ •■• 594 

„ supply of 586 

local, indents for ... ... ... ••. ••• ■•• O-" 

useless, disj^osal of ... ... ... .. ••• ••• ^02 

Fuel- 
abroad ^^^-^^ 

,, co7umuted allowance .. ... ••• ... ••• -^^ 

absence during, issues ... ... ..• ■■• ••• ••• -^Jj 

Academy, Eoyal Military 

accessories, cubical space, calciilation of ... ■•• ■.• -a- 

half rates f^>- 

„ not entitled to ... ... ... ••• ••• '-13 

„ scale of weekly issues ... ... .-• ••• "-02 

„ uuocoupieil, cessation of issue ... ... •■• '-12 

accounts, change of station ... ... ... •■• ••• 

„ compilation of vouchers ... ... -.• ... 

' details unattached, accounts on one voucher ... 231 

" fuel year defined ... ... ... ••• ••• '^'^^ 

record of strength, accessories, &c., kept for vouchers... lav 

!,' running 226,226,249 

stations without A.S.O. accountant ... ... f^^ 

active service, troops on -^'^ 



197 



Fue 



Fuel — continued. 

allowaiicos, details for caloiilatiug -J.-J-i-Ji-lU 

army ordnance services ... •• ••• ••• ••• ••• "^^J- 

A.S.O. services 221 

artillery, district officers ..■ ••• ... ••• ••• ''1" 

barrack rooms, calculation of issues ... ... ... ... 235 

barracks, airing, drying, &c., special issues 25() 

batli rooms ... ... ■•• ••• ••• ' •■• •■• 

browning arms ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

camp 9?i 

churclies and chapels ... ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

coal (q.v.) 

College, Eoyal Military ... 20b 

commuted allowance iu lieu ... ... ... ••• l.'il-iw, loi 

cooking, soldiers... ... ... ••• ••- ••• ■•• l^^i '•^^S 

cubical space, calculation of ... ... -.• .•• ••• 232 

detention barracks and rooms ... ... ... ... •■• 205 

engineers, royal, officers of coast battalion ... ... ... 210 

engineer services, special ... ••■ ••• ••• ••• 221 

equivalents ... ... ••• ••■ ••• ••• ■•■ 

eitra issues 208, 209, 23G, 256-259 

families during absence of men ... ... ... •.• ••■ 246 

general instructions ... ... ... ... ••• •■• 188-190 

guards ... ... ... .•■ ••• ••• •■• ••• 2Ul 

gymnasia ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• 211 

hospitals... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••■ 205 

huts, extra for ... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 209 

Ireland, coal, quality of ... ... •■• -.• ••• 191 

„ extra issues ... ... ... ... ••• ••• _ 257 

issues abroad ... ... ... •.• ••• ■•• ••• 251-253 

„ at home, change of station during fuel week ... ... 239 

„ general regulations for ... ... ... 188 

„ mode of making ... ... ... ... 223 

„ ,, period of, weekly ... ... ... ... 190 

„ „ services outside barracks not granted ... ... 224 

„ staff officers on repayment, &o. ... ... 189 

„ temporary emei'gencios... ... ... ... 256 

,, „ -when week overlaps next season ... ... 238 

kindling ... ... ... ... ... ... .•■ .•• 207 

lecture rooms ... ... ... ... ... ••• •■• 211 

magazines and defences ... ... ... ... ••• ••■ 221 

messes, officers' ... ... ... ... ... ••• •-■ 199, 233 

„ Serjeants' ... ... ... ... ... ••• 200 

miscellaneous services ... ... ... ... ... ••• 221 

money allowance in lieu, abroad ... ... ... ... 252, 253 

„ at home, claims ... ... ... 244 

„ „ ,, issues generally ... ... 245 

„ „ „ rates ... ... ■•• 242 

„ „ „ to whom granted ... ... 241 

mounted corps, regimental forges and shoeing ... ... 208 

overdrawals, charges for ... ... ... ... ... 226 

„ „ „ remission of ... ... ... ... 259 

overlapping of weekly allowance with next season ... .. 238 

prisons, military... ... ... ... ... ... ... 205 

quartei'masters, ridingmasters and directors of music ... ... 210 

rooms for soldiers ... ... ... ... ... ... 235 

running account ... ... ... • ... ... ... 225,226,249 

scale, abroad ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2o3 

„ at home 195-205 

„ ,, canvas, under ... ... ... ... ... 247,248 



Fue— Hon 



198 



Fuel — continued. paea. 

scale, calculation of, details for ... ... ... ... ... 2.S2-240 

„ deviations from ... ... ... ... ... ... 250-2.59 

scliooliiiaster, married, extra allowance ... ... ... 23G 

Bciiuolniihitrc'SK, family of, during absence ... ... ... 246 

„ jnarried, extra allowance ... ... ... 23G 

scliools, unoccupied ... ... ... ... ... ... 212 

shoeing ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 208 

stores for bedding, arms, clotbing and accoutrements ... 211 

strength, calculation of fractions ... ... ... ... 234 

summer issue to unmarried men ... ... ... ... 2ii7 

„ lengtli of ... ... ... ... ... ... 194 

turf, allowance for kindling purposes ... ... ... ... 207 

„ „ under canvas ... ... ... ... ... 247 

unauthorized services, how drawu ... ... ... ... 226 

vessels, War Department ... ... ... ... ... 222 

weekly scale, issues made on ... ... ... ... ... 190 

winter, length of... ... ... ... ... ... ... 194 

wood, allowance for kindling purposes ... ... ... ... 207 

„ „ under canvas ... ... ... ... ... 247 

wooden barracks, extra for ... ... ... ... ... 209 

Funeral, soldier's, allowance for ... ... ... ... ... 678,679 

Furniture — 

allowance to general officers ... ... ... ... 268-271 

indemnification for loss of ... ... ... ... ... 555 

payment for hire of ... ... ... ... ... ... 264-266 



G 

Gallic acid for sun printing, chargeable against Stationery 



Office vote ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 678 

Gas (see also Lig-lit) — 

authority for issue of ... ... ... ... ... ... 216 

supply of, instructions for ... ... ... ... ... 260 

General Ofla.cers — 

cabin accommodation ... ... ... ... ... ... 378,461 

furniture allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... 268-271 

Gibraltar, rates of lodging money ... ... ... ... 278 

Gold Coast, rates of lodging money ... ... ... ... 278 

Governor of Colony, table allowance to officer acting as... ... 651 

Gratuities to railway porters, &c., inadmissible ... ... 384 

Groceries, ration ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 31 

Grooms — 

allowance for, European (see Servants' Allowance) ... 506, 513 

„ native ... ... ... ... ... ... 526-5S3 

civilian, rations abroad ... ... ... ... ... ... 22 

rations during leave of absence of officer ... ... ... 24 

travelling expenses, officer on temporary duty ... ... 343 

Guard detention room, subsistence of soldiers in ... ... 89 

Gymnasia — 

allowance for fencing, &c. ... ... ... ... ... 677 

paillasse straw for, issue of ... ... ... ... ... 183 

Half.pay oflB.cer temporarily employed on the staff ... ... 2 

Hammock Allowance, West Coast of Africa ... ... ... 169 

Hqng: Kong- — 

lodging money, rates ... ... ... ... ... ... 278 

servant allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... 526,527 



199 



Hor 



H 

>^ PAHA. 

Horse Rugrs, allowance to provide ... 644 

allowance, Ooylon and Straits Settlements 170, 171 

Oeylon and Straits Settlements, travelling expenses 

not allowed with ... ... ... ... ... 338 

officers temporarily employed on mounted duties ... 336 

cast,"rules in Kings' Regulations to be observed ' 627 

„ sale of, auctioneer, commission of ... 634 

payment by ... ... ... ... 636 

bill of sale 635, 637 

credits from sale ... ... ••• •-. ... 637, 638 

diseased horses ... ... ••• ... ... 632 

hides and carcases ... ... ... ... 639 

mode of 628, 629 

payments, abroad... ... ... ... ... 638 

„ by auctioneer ... ... ... ... 636 

purchase by oflicers and soldiers not allowed ... 631 
superintending officer ... ... ... ... 630 

tolls and market dues ... ... ... ... 633 

chargers, active service ... ... ... ... ... ••• 6-^2 

„ board io investigate accidents ... ... ... 610 

" ^smltiesto v.". "609, 610; 623, 624 

certificate as to military fitness of cobs and private 

hor^s 604,617,619 

., exchange of ... ... ... ... .-■ ..• 611 

II h-ea 604, 608, 611, 614, 622 

„ general purposes ... ... ... ... 605,606,607 

„ hii-ed 605, 608 

„ mounted officers -when allowed free use ... 604, 611, 622 
„ officers on retirement ... ... ... ... ... 620, 621 

„ „ ordered abroad ... ... ... ... 613 

with an army in the field ... ... ... 622 

„ payment for 605, 606,615,616,618,619 

„ „ „ refund, for hired ... ... ... 605 

„ private, use of by officers ... ... ... ... 617 

„ purchase of, from officers proceeding on active 
service ... ... ... ... ... 

„ purchase from the ranks ... ... ... ... 618, 619 

„ replacement of... ... ... ... ... ...604,610 

responsibility of commanding officer ... ... 607, 608 

„ „ officers 609 

„ return to remount department ... 607,619,620,624 

returns... ... ... ... ... ... ... 611 

„ shoeing allowance when no army farrier available 626 

„ supply of 604, 622 

„ unsound on retirement of officer ... ... ... 621 

cobs, certificate as to militai-y fitness ... ... ... ... ' 604 

„ definition of ... ... ... ... 604 

„ forage rations for ... ... ... ... ... ... 156 

„ payment for when used for general purposes ... ... 605 

couveyance of, in horse boxes and cattle trucks ... 385, 414 

„ on change of station or temporary duty ... 344 

rates ... 414 

forage for (see Forage). 

grazing, hired ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 176 



Hor— Hot 



200 



Ho rses — contbiiieil. it^ _ 

liiilcs and cairasiss ... ... ... ... ... ... (j^^ 

liii-u, allowaucos for, to offlcors ... ... ... .S.'J4~.3,S0, 844 

„ ex;)(ii)Kf;rt, wli(;i) not allowod ... ... ... ... 337 

juiiipH for, i)i-ovision and riiaintenancf! of ... ... ... MO-i;}.^ 

Jiviu'.v cxpcnsos ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ;.(45 

los.s of, indomnifioatiuM ... ... ... ... 017, ,0,01, ii.OO-.OOS, .OG.S 

passaffi^s... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4,04 

p\ircliasn, allowance! to oflicer empioyt'd ill ... ... ... (j-2,0 

su))pl.v of, to ofllcers ... ... ... ... ... ... 004-024 

tidcip, issuo of to ofHoers, and e.xclruigf! ... 004, 005 011,01.0 

Hospitals — 

admission to, poi'sons entitlod to ... ... ... ... 7.3 

attonilant, stoppage when admitted to li(>s;)ital for diKeaHe 

contnictod as ... ... ... ... ... ... 77 

civil, treatment in, stopjiages ... ... " ... ... ... 74 

eijiiipment and decorative articles, purcliase of, for ... ... G85-G91 

,, repairs ... ... ... ... ... ... . G!)1 

filel for ... 205 

1 ml iiiu establishment, claiming amounts due from ... ... 81 

lodging monej', while in ... ... ... ... ... 284 

nursing staif, &C. ... ... ... ... ... ... 082-084 

rations — 

active service ... ... ... ... ... ... C6 

civil lunatic asylum ... ... ... ... ... 78 

diets, scale of ... ... ... ... ... ... 57, 71 

„ active service ... ... ... ... 60 

dining-rooms, extras permissible iu ... ... ... 60 

discharge, day of ... ... ... ;.. ... ... 68 

entry, day of ... ... ... ... ... ... 68 

extras, authorised ... ... ... ... ... ... 58-04 

„ day of entry or discharge ... ... ... ... 68 

„ ingredients, proportions of ... ... ... 61 

„ men treated in quarters ... ... ... ... 70 

„ military families hospitals ... ... ... ... 71 

„ non-dieted hospital ... ... ... ... ... 69 

families of soldiers ... ... ... ... ... ... 71,72 

field service... ... ... ... ... ... ... 68 

ice, issue of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 64 

inadmissible to soldiers dieted in hospital ... ... 24 

indents for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 80 

kitchen sundries ... ... ... ... ... ... 6.S 

malt liquors excluded from dining-rooms ... ... ■ 60 

measure of lic^uids — milk, wines, and spirits ... ... 59 

military families hospitals ... ... ... ... ... 71 

non-dieted hospitals ... ... ... ... ... 69 

persons entitled to ... ... ... ... ... ... 73 

puddings ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 59-62 

special issues to cooking classes ... ... ... ... .3-> 

stoppages accounts ... ... ... ... ... 81 

,, for treatment in civil hospital or lunatic asylum 74, 78 

„ local troops abroad ... ... ... ... 79 

„ rates ... ... ... ... ... ... 73 

„ remission iu certain cases ... ... 75,76,77 

substitutes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 65 

temporary treatment ... ... ... ... ... 67 

travelling expenses of officers admitted to ... ... ... 323 

Hot Meal — 

billets on the march ... ... ... ... ... ... 24 

rations in money or kind inadmissible with ... ... ... 24 

travelling allowances do not debar ... ... ... ... 401 



201 



Ice — Lat 



PABA. 

, . f 04 

Ice, issue or ... ..- ••• ••• , . , . ijoa 

Imprisonment or detention, lodging money dunug ... ^84 
Income Tax on qxiarters (footnote on png.- (.11). 
Indemnification for losses (see also Losses) 

India — inq 
married establisliinout ... ' ... ■•• ■" ••• ••• ' 

passages for officers' families ... ... 

ship, messing and rations when on board 

travelling claims ... ••• ••• ••• ••• . , ,' 

Induleence Passages 

Infectious — n , i i km 

or contagious, disorder, indemnification for losses caused by ... OOi 

wards, diets and extras ... ••• ••• ••• i'- 

Inhabited House Duty on quarters (footnote on page bJ). 

Insurance— , j„ 

of motor vehicles by owners kii- ila 

required of officers sending baggage, &o o*!^, oou 

Instruction, courses of, officers' travelling expenses d/!,-,-5dU 

Instruments, professional, indemuifioation for loss of ... ... ooo 

Ireland — ^ 
coal supplied in, quality of ... ... •••• ••• ^^j: 

fuel, extra ... ■•• ■•• ••• ••• 

Irish Horse, servants, money allowance ... ... ••• •.• 

Iron ration 

Issue of Allowances— 

commencement and cessation of ... .•• •.• ••• * 

„ on promotion ... ... ... •■• ••• ° 

double capacity, inadmissible ... ... ... ••• ••• ° 

general instructions for issuing and charging allowanoes ... IS-ll 



J 

Jamaica — 

non-European servants allowed to officers ... ... ... oib 

rates of lodging money 

Jumps for horses ••• 



K 

^^*camp 

conveyance of, weight allowed ... ... "... ... •■• 4/4 

indemnification for loss of ... ... ... ... ••• 563 

Kitchen sundries ... ... ... ... ... ••• .•• 



Lamps (see also Lig-ht), oil and wick for, supply ... 214, 216, 217, 218, 221 

Lance Chests, conveyance of, weight allowed 474 

Latrine Paper 577, 582, 599, 600 



202 



Leave of Absence — paka 

aiclu-(le-ciiiiip, allowances during excess leave of G.0.0. ... 6 

l>"Kgagu> coiivoyaiice of, on cliaiigu of station (lurinf^ ... ... 475 

col(jMial allowance ... ... ... ... .. ^oy 30^ 

^'"iTf--,- ••• •"• 151I154 

lucl to faniilic's cninng ... ... ... ... ... ... 246 

furnished (iiiartoiB of offlcere during ... ... ... ... 266 

lodging niouoy 285, 200 

„ West Coast of Africa ... ... ... ... ^91-293 

indoninificatiou for losses during "... ... ... ... 543 

provisions ... ... ... ... ... 24 

servants' allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... 514 

stable allowauco ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 3Q5 

travelling expenses of officers ... ... ... ... ... 315-322 

Library Allowance — 

A.V.O. 066 

charges for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... gyy 

infantr.y depfits ... ... ... ... ... ... (jgg 

object of ."■ (J64 

rates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5(55 

E.E., fortress companies ... ... ... ... ... 565 go? 

special cases ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 'jjfjg 

Woolwich, Artillery library, servants ... ... ... 665 

Light- 
abroad 251-253 

„ commuted allowance ... ... ... ... ... 252 

absence during, issue ... ... ... ... ... ... 235 246 

accounts, change of station ... ... ... ... ... 223' 227 

compilation of vouchers ... ... ... ... 228 

„ details unattached ... ... ... ... ... 231 

„ mode of 223 

„ record of strengtb, accessories, &c., kept for 

vouchers ... ... ... ... ... ... 230 

running 225, 226, 249 

„ stations without A.S.C. accountant ... ... ... 231 

. 1. year, end of, and closing of account ... ... ... 229 

active service, troops on ... ... ... ... ... ... 255 

army ordnance services ... ... ... ... ... ... 221 

A.S.C. services ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 221 

artillery, district ofiBcers ... ... ... ... ... 21O 

authority for issue of ... ... ... ... ... ... 2I6 

barrack rooms, calculation of issues ... ... ... ... 235 

camp 247-250 

candles (<?.«.). 

coast battalion, E.E. officers ... ... ... ... ... 2IO 

commuted allowance in lieu ... ... ... ... 241-246 252 

engineer services, special ... ... ' ... ... ... ' 221 

gas 216,' 243, 260 

issues abroad ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 251-253 

issues at home, calculation of, details for ... ... ... 235 

i> 11 general regulations for ... ... ... 188 

11 I) how calculated ... ... ... ... ... 190 

»! 11 mode of making ... ... ... ... 223 

t) services outside barracks not granted ... 224 

lampsticks, oil and wick for ... ... ... ... 217 

magazines and defences ... ... ... ... ... ... 221 

miscellaneous services ... ... ... ... ... ... 221 

money allowance, in lieu, abroad ... ... ... ... 262, 253 

II )i at home, claims ... ... ... 244 



203 



Lig— liod 



money allowance, in lieu, at home, issue, general regulations ... -4o 

., ofheers iii barracks' ... i-io 

rates P 

" " .. to whom .illowetl ... .■• 2^1 

officers in barracks ... ••• ••• ••• ••■ "■ 

„ messes ... .•• ••• ••• ;•• •" ,'a|, 

on consolidated rates not granted exeept on repayment... ^^^^^ IHJ 

oil ••• ••• ••• •■" 

overdrawals, charges for... ... ••• ••• ••• •■• " 

,, remission of ... ... ■•• •■• -o-' 

overlapping of weekly allowance with next season 238 

quartermasters, ridingmasters and directors of music ^^lU 

rooms for soldiers ... ••• ••• •■• ■•• "■ '^^^ 

scale, abroad ... .•• ••• ••• ••• "■ Tj-iVo-jj^ 

„ at home ... 247I050 

canvas, imder 

deviations from ... ... , ".• V , . ,"" ^,.0 

single regimental officers' quarters and stables, issues in kind... 1^6 

stables, candles for ... ... ••• ••■ ••■ ••■ " 

„ commuted allowance to officers ... ... 

summer, length of ••• -sig, -ilV, 247, 255 

WlCK ... ... ••• 

winter, length of... ... ••■ ••• ■•• ••• •■■ ^ 

Lighthouses, fuel and light for ... ^--^ 

liime for cleaning ashpits and surface drains ... ■•• •■• 
Liquids, measure for (footnote) ... ... •■• ■•• •■• 

Liquor ration — 

free issue of ... ... ••• ••■ ••• ••• . "• 

Lithographic Presses and Stores, chargeable against 

Stationery Office vote 
Livejry expenses for officers' horses 



34, 35 

578 
345 

JJX V OA J ^rf».JtJ»^»J.tJWM ^ijj. ^ — w --- 

Local rank does not affect rates 

Local Regulations, Abroad— 1 rs T-n 

forage rations ... ... ... •■• ••• •■■ ••• ilj; 

fuel and light _ 25d 

hospital stoppages, rates included in ... ... ••• ••• 

married establishment ... ... ... •■• ••• ••• -'^ 

provisions, hospital rations ... ... ••■ ••• ••• ^ 

„ prisons, &c., rations... ... ••• ■•• ••• 83, 91 

scale 28 

published in each command ... ... •■• ••• ••■ 

rates and scales, deviations from ... ... .•• •■• 1*, 15 

revised triennially ... ... ... ••• ■•• ••■ J-^ 

stable allowance, rates included in ... ... ... ••• "03 

travelling allowances ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• "^^"^ 

Lodging: Money— 

abroad, special cases ... ... ... ••• .•• ••• 

absence, continuance during — 

active service ... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 286 

conditions and certificate ... ... ... ••• ••• 280 

for families ... ... ... ... ... ••• ■■• 283, 284 

leave, ordinary or sick ... ... ... ••• ■•■ 285 

sickness ... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 282 

temporary duty ... ... ... ... ... ••• 281 

active service, during ... ... ... ... ... ..• 286, 294 

authority for issue ... ... ... ... ... .•• 274, 275 

Canary Islands, on sick leave at ... ... ... .•• 293 

certificate for amount paid ... ... " ... ... ... 276 

„ when quarters under repair ... ... ... ... 275 



Lod— Los 



204 



Lodgrlner Money — continued. vaua. 

cliiiiiiK for... ... ... ... ... ... ... . 274 27.0 

coIdiioI coiniuandiiig or liuutenaut-coloiicl ... ... ... -jjij 

dcatli, ill (^voiit of • ... ... ... ... ... ... 27(i 

dircotdr of iimsic ... ... ... ... ... ... 279 

oxpoiisos cuvoi'cd by ... ... ... ... ... ...'272,278 

families, during iibsoiico in liospital ... ... ... ... 284 

,, ,, inii)riKOMnicnt or dfjteution ... ... ... 284 

„ t('inporar.y absouce on duty, &<!. ... ... 283,284 

„ ofRcors' iiivalidoJ home * ... ... ... ... 288 

India, invalidiMl from ... ... ... ... ... ... 288 

issue, by whom made ... ... ... ... ... ... 288 

„ cessation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 276, 2811 

,, conmionoemeut ... ... ... ... ... ... 27.0 

leave ordinary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 28.0 

liuuteuaut-colonel, with room in barracks ... ... ... 2711 

Loudon, rate for... ... ... ... ... ... ... 27!) 

Madeira, on sick leave at ... ... ... ... ... 293 

mess hire allowance when not issued with ... ... ... 290 

objoctof... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 272,278 

olHcers drawing consolidated pay ... ... ... ...273,270 

quartermasters ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 279 

rates ... ... ... ... ... ... 278, 279 

recruit when attestation delayed ... ... ... ... 277 

ridingmaster ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 279 

schoolmistress ... ... ... ... ... «... ... 279 

servants of officers ... ... ... ... ... ... 279 

soldiers not on married roll sent to hospital ... ... ... 282 

special cases, grant of, in — 

abroad, leave from ... ... ... ... ... ... 290 

active service ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2£4 

for families ... ... ... ... ... ... ...288,289 

on promotion, during absence from station, &c. ... ... 287 

West Coast of Africa, leave from ... ... ... ... 291-293 

stabling, when included in ... ... ... ... ... 278 

Staff College i. ... 279 

temporary duty, absence on ... ... ... 2/3,281,283,284 

West Coast of Africa, officers on leave from ... ... ... 291-293 

liosses, indemnification for — 

band property ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 560 

board of investigation ... ... ... ... ... 518, 564, 565 

. books and furniture ... ... ... ... ... ... 555 

claims, delay in making ... ... ... ... ... ... 562 

,, procedure in regai-d to ... ... ... ... ... 562-565 

compensation from other sources ... ... ... ... 548 

deceased officer or man, claims by representatives ... ... 546,558 

equipment, &c., officers' and warrant officers' ... 551 553-555, 564 

,, „ „ scale of ... 563 

estimating amount of ... ... ... ... ... ... 554 

exceptional causes ... ... ... ... ... ... 552 

families of soldiers, granted only in exceptional cases ... 561 

general regulations ... ... .. ... ... ... 546-550 

grant of, conditions ... ... ... ... ... ... 547 

„ limit ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 547 

„ when claim admitted ... ... ... ... ... 551,552 

„ „ not admitted ... ... ... ...548,549 

horses ... ... ... ... ... ... ,551, 656-658, 563 

insurance... ... ... ... ... ... ... 646, 549, 550 

leave, during ... ... ' ... ... ... ... ... 648 



205 



Los— Mau 



Losses, indemnification tov—conthmtd. 
mess, property ... ••• ••■ 
military risks only admissible ... 
money 

object ... ... ••• ••• ••• 

property destroyed to prevent capture by onomy 
special regulations 

theft ^ ••■ v- 

Lunatic Asylum, civil, maintenance of soldier m 



5G0 
546 
559, 5(53 
546 
561 
553-561 
551, 559 
78 



M 

Machinery, fuel for 
Malta, rates of lodging money 
Maps, supply of 

Marines, Royal- 
officers employed with tlie army 

provisions issued to ... .•• ••• ••• ••• 

Marriage Certificate in connection with separation allow- 
ance, cost of... 
Married — 

establisbment, abroad, rations for wife and child 

„ absorption of re-joined married reservist 
„ composition of ... 

„ divisions of 

„ India, British troops serving in 

„ special reserve, regular establishment ...96,99 

„ supernumerary to 

„ territorial force, permanent staff 

vacancies in 

family (<7-i'-)- 

roll, absorption of soldier promoted to Serjeant 
„ advantages confined to those on 
„ calculation of 
„ detention or desertion 
„ footguards ... 

„ Indian, qualifying service not completed ... 
„ keeping and rendering of ... 
„ percentages, calculation of 
„ Serjeants, reduced to the I'anks 

„ vacancies on 
„ special reserve, N.O.Os., &o., permanently posted to unit 

„ regular establishment, calculation of 

" „ „ keeping of 

„ transfers 
,, vacancies, filling of 
„ West Coast of Africa, families need not accompany soldier 
„ widows and children abroad 
„ wife's death or prolonged illness ... 
Master-Gunner, issue of stationery, army forms, and books to.. 

Mauritius- 
colonial allowance 

„ „ during leave ... 
rates of lodging money ... "... 
servants' allowance, natives 



221 
278 
578, 608 

2 
50 

128 



22 
108 
95-99 
■ 102 
109 
101, 108 
107 
96 

102, 107 

102 
94 
98-99 
106 
99 
109 
100 
98, 99 
102 



97, 



96 
99 
101 
107 
103 
459 
105 
104 
592 

306 
308 
278 
526, 527 



206 



Medical Comforts (soo also Hospital, rations) — paua. 

fiimilios of soldiers ... ... ... ... ... ... 72, 7.*} 

iiulinits for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 80 

supply of and stoppages for ... ... ... ... ... 7"i, 73 

Medical Laboratories, rations issued for instructional 

l)urposos... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .32 

Medical Ofllcer, stationery, forms, &c., for ... ... ... 594 

Mess Allowance — 

charging of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 18 

director of music, first subscription ... ... ... ... 674 

ollicers — 

artillery at Slioeburyness and Woolwioli ... ... ... 54,5 

„ local companies, rate ... ... ... ... 539 

closing of mosses for repairs ... ... ... ... 542 

detached oiHcors ... ... ... ... ... ... 538 

Dublin Oastle guard, special ... ... ... 544 

engineers, during leave ... ..." ... ... ... 540 

„ mess at Chatham ... ... ... ... 545 

„ servant allowance when soldier not employed 521 

foot guards in Loudon ... ... ... ... ... 537 

oflii'ers training corps, regular officers employed at 

training of ... ... ... ... ... ... 543 

object of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 534 

rates 536-5.39 

St. James's Palace, King's guard, special ... ... ... 544 

shijD, on board, when granted ... ... ... ... 541 

special reserve, regular officers employed at training of ... 543 

stations wliere granted ... ... ... ... ... 535 

territorial force, regular officers employed at training of ... 543 

quai'tei'master and ridingmaster, first subscription ... ... 674 

Mess Hire- 
abroad ... 300 

allowance in lieu... ... ... ... ... ... ... 300 

,, not admissible with field allowance ... ... 301 

certificates iu sujiport of .. . ... ... ... ... ... 297 

conditions of issue ... ... ... ... ... ... 295 

during repair of mess ... ... ... ... ... ...298,542 

for whom inadmissible ... ... ... ... ... ... 301 

mess hire allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... 295-301 

rates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 296 

Messing Allowance — 

conditions of grant ... ... ... ... ... ... 92, 93 

rate ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 92 

Messing on board ship — 

payment for entitled passengers, extras ... ... ... 465 

„ „ „ rates... 463, and footnote on page 125 

„ ,, „ recovery of ... ... ... 404 

,, India, proceeding to and from ... ... ... 468 

„ indulgence passengers ... ... ... ... ... 46'>, 467 

Military Attache 331, 400 

Military Service, sickness caused by, definition ... ... 75 

Milk, measure for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 59 

Miscellaneous Stores, allowance for ... ... ... ... 676 

Money, indemnification for loss of ... ... ... ...559,563 

Motor Vehicles — 

private, allowances for ... ... ' ... ... ... ... 386-393 

„ damage to or by, indemnification not granted ... ... 549 



207 



Mot— Pai 



PAB.A. 



Motor Vehicles — continued. 

public, travelling allowance, when admissible 399 

Mtdes, forage ration for ... ... ••• ■.• 156 

Music, allowance to pupils of school of, attending concerts ... bSL 

N 

Nurses — 

fare when travelling ... ••• ••• .•• •.• •.• jll 

for officers' cliildren, passage for .. ... 451 

Nursing Service— 

allowances en 

camp kit 670 



Offices- 
candles for ... ... ... ••• •;• ••• ••. 

cleaning allowance, claims and mode of expending ... ... 504 

„ rates 502, 503 

regimental offices ... ... ... ..- 676 

when granted ... ... ••. ••• 501 

office stamps ... ... ... •■■ ••• ••• •■• 578 

stationery for ... ... ... ■■. ... ••• ••• 588-595 

Officiating Clergymen, travelling expenses ... ... ... 332 

Oil (see also Light)— 

active service ... .-■ ••• -•• ••• ••• •.• 255 

authority for issue ... ... •■■ ■.• ■•• •.• ^6 

canvas, under ... ... ••• ••• •■• •.• ••• 247 

fire caused by use of low flash, indemnification not granted ... 548 

lampsticks, for ... ... ••• ••. •■• ••• ••• 217 

miscellaneous services ... ... ... •■■ ••• ... 221 

used where gas is not in use ... ... ... ... ... 218 

weekly issue ... ... ••■ ■■• ■.• ••■ ••. 214 

Orange Free State, rates of lodging money ... ... ... 278 

Orders Army, covers for ... ... ... ... ... 596 

Outfit Allowance — 

charges for ... ... ... ... ... ••• ••• 675 

inspectors, ordnance machinery and mechanical transport ... 672 
mess, subscription on promotion from ranks, quartermaster, 

ridingmaster, or director of music ... ... ... ... 674 

Q.A.I.M.N.S 682 

rates, retired officer recalled to service ... ... ... 671 

„ warrant otHcer or N.C.O. granted commission in cavalry, 

infantry or A.S.O. ... ... ... ••■ ■•• 673 

warrant officer or N.C.O. granted roraniission other than 

in cavalry, infantry or A.S.O. ... ... ... ■•• 673 



P 

Paillasse Straw- 
camp, limits to issue ... ... ... ... ... ... 186 

„ on the march ... ... ... ... ... ... 187 

,, renewal before expiration of ... ... ... ... 186 

„ scale of issue ... .. ... ... ... ... 186 

garrison, allowance in lieu, separate, not granted ... ... 185 

„ change of troops, issue ... ... ... ... 184 

„ cost included in commuted fuel and light allowanca 186 



Pai— Pas 



208 



Paillasse Straw — conthmed. para. 

garrison, scale of issuo ... ... ... ... ... ... 183 

Papers, usoIobs, disposal of ... ... ... ... ... G02 

Parcels, carriage of... ... ... ... ... ... 487-490, 492 

Passagres — 

cheapest route to be Ufiod ... ... ... ... ... 377 

civiliiiii Ruborfliiiates ... ... ... ... ... ... ;!78,4.5(i 

classes of nccorriinudatioii ... ... ... ... ... 378 

families of ollicors, nctivo service, oiuployuil on ... ... 448 

„ „ (lying on service ... ... ... ... 443 

„ „ family defined ... ... ... ... 442 

„ „ India, to or from ... ... ... ... 444 

„ „ liability for cost of ... ... ... 438, 4:i'j 

„ „ mussing contriljutious ... ... ... 4G3 

„ „ nurse for eliildren ... ... ... ... 4.51 

„ „ payment before embarkation in private 

vessels ... ... ... ... ... 453 

„ „ to accompany officers ... ... ... 447 

„ „ to whom granted ... ... ... ... 443 

„ „ Wo.-^t Coast of Africa 443 

„ „ when granted free ... ... ... ... 443 

„ qnartennastcrs, West Indies or West Coast of Africa 44.5 
„ soldiers, invalided home .. ... ... ... 455 

„ „ not on married establishment ... ... 37;! 

„ „ on married ostablislimont ... ... ... 308-370 

„ „ West Coast of Africa and West Indies ... 459 

„ warrant ofHcers or N.C.Os., West Indies or West Coast 4.58 
government vessels to be used ... ... ... ... ... 433 

horses of ofHcers... ... ... ... ... ... ... 454 

India, messing and ration stoppages ... ... ... ... 4C8 

indulgence ... ... ... ... ... ... ...466, 467 

N.O.Os. and men, accommodation, classes of ... ... ... 378 

„ discharged or transferred to Army Eeserve 362-364 

„ families of (see above) ... 368-372,455,457-459 

„ rations, India to and from ... ... ... 468 

„ „ indulgence jjassages ... ... ... 467 

„ West India Eegiment ... ... ... ... 457 

officers abroad, when liable for cost of ... ... ... 438 

„ allowances, conditions of grant ... ... ... 460,461 

„ cabin accommodation ... ... ... ... ... 378,461 

„ departmental, on probation, vacating or not approved ... 441 
„ exchange, on ... ... ... ... ... ... 434, 439 

„ families of (see above). 

„ horses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 454 

„ leave, on... ... ... ... ... ... 435,436,440 

„ money allowance in lieu ... ... ... ... 460 

„ recall for duty while on leave ... ... ... ... 434 

„ removal or dismissal, inability to provide passage ... 437 
„ retirement, on ... ... ... ... ... ... 434 

„ ■ servants 340, 449, 450, 452 

„ „ allowance in lieu ... ... ... ... 460 

„ „ payment before embarkation in private vessels 453 

„ successor's passage, when liable for ... ... ... 438 

„ West Coast of Africa 436 

„ West India Regiment ... ... ... ... ... 436 

quartermasters, riding-masters, Ac, accompanying invalided 

families ... ... ... ... ... ... 434 

regulations applicable to... ... ... ... ... ... 432,433 

soldier's intended wives... ... ... ... ... ... 371 

warrant ofiScers aud fapiilies ... ... .., ... ...457,458 



209 



Pas— Qua 



(JOl 
578 

206 

88 

90 



TAllA. 

Pass Book for addresses of letters charged to the public 5C8 

Pharmacies, allowance for cleaning o,.-- trS^ 

Police, travelling expenses with deserters oaA 

Porteragre outside a railway station ... ... ... ... ooi 

ascertained and paid before despatch of letters 566 

expenses when borne by public 567 

letter post, when to be used obb 

pass book, addresses of letters to be entered 5b8 

stamps, purchase at head ofSce ... ... ... ... ••• 567 

Practice Arms, upkeep of, allowance for 677 

Prayer Books 

Printing, local ^^1^^ 

Printrng Presses •■• •■• ••• •■• °'° 

Prisons, Detention Barracks, and Barrack Detention Rooms— 
fnfl for ... 
rations — 

..v^oounts ... ••■ _ ••• 
billets, soldiers in arrest in... 

civil gaols, charges for subsistence in _ ... ... ... 91 

colonial prisons, charges for subsistence in... ... ... 91 

confinement to barracks or in guard delentiou room ... 89 

discharge, on day of ... .•• ••• •■• ••• '^^'^f 

money allowance in certain cases ... ••• ■•■ ••• 

scale abroad ... ... •.• ■■• ••• ••• ••• °° 

flrt ll 01116 •-• •'* "' '** *** 

]] ill-conducted and idle soldiers under sentence ... 86 

soup, meat used for... ... ••• ••• ••• ■•• ^-^ 

special for soldiers sentenced to long terms, temporarily con- 
fined in detention barracks, &c... ... ... ... 85 

supply, mode of ... ... ... •.• ••• •• 

when inadmissible ... ... ••. ... ■•• ■•• 

Probation, soldier on, rates not raised ... ... .•■ .•• '7 

Promotion, date for issue of higher rates ... ... ••. 6 

Provisions (see also Rations) — 

accounting, mode of ... ... •.• ... ••• ••• a oo 

equivalents, table of ... ... ... ... ••• ••• 38 

groceries 31 

hospitals and stoppages ... ... ... ••. .•• ••• 

issue, mode of ... ... ... ... •■• ••• ••• t^^K 

„ on repayment ... ... •.• •.- ••■ ••• ^ n 

„ persons entitled to rations ... ... ... .•• 

meat, allowance to cover loss in cutting up ... ... ... 30 

money allowance in lieu of rations ... ... ... ••• 39-42 

prisons, detention barracks, and barrack detention rooms ... 82-91 

scales of rations... ... ... ... •.• ••• ••• 28-36 

Pupil teacher, ration when abroad ... ... ... ... ^2 

Purchase of Animals ... ... ... ••• ••• ■•• 626 



Q 

Quarters — 

chaplains, probationary and acting, payment for ... ... \ 263 

consolidated pay, stoppage from, for ... ... ... ... 261 

income tax and inhabited house duty (footnote on page 69). 

inspectors of works and surveyors, payment for ... ... 262 

money allowance in lieu (see Iiodging- Money). 

payment for ... ... .■■ ••• ••• ••• ••• 261-267 

(B 10575) I 



Que— Rat 



210 



Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing- Service— vara. 

camp kit ... ..• ••• ••• ■•• ••■ ••• C70 

clouk ami clotliiug allowance ... ... ... ... ... G82 

outllt allowauco ... ... ... ••• .■• •«. ... 082 



R 

Railway — 

conveyanco by, classes of accommodation ... ... ... 378 

horses, mode of conveyance ... ••• ••• ... ... 385 

sleeping berths included in travelling allowance at home ... 384 

Railway Fare — 

cheap and tourist or seaside tickets ... ... ... ... 412 

children ... ... , ... ... ••• ••• ■•• 413 

fractions, how charged ... ... ••. ••• ... ... 415 

horses 414 

nurses, special rate ... ... ••• ■•• ••• ••. 411 

rates 410 

return tickets ... ... ..- ••• •• ••• ... 412 

tourist or seaside tickets ... •■■ ••• ... ... 412 

warrants, stamped receipts by railway companies not 

necessary ... ... ••• ■■• ••• ••• ..- 416 

Railway Rates — 

articles excluded from government rate ... ... ... 490-492 

for baggage ... ... ••• ••• ••• ■•• ••• 478-480 

,. stores 489-492 

Railway Warrants, receipts on ... ... ... ... ... 416 

Rank — 

brevet, temporary, &c., rates of allowance not affected by ... 2 

classification of, for allowances ... ... ... ... ... 1 

Ranks, reduction to the, place on married roll ... ... ... 102 

Rations — 

abroad, groceries when issued ... ... ... ... -.• 31 

„ scale of ... ... ... ... ••• .•• ••• 28 

absence without leave ... ... ... ... •.• ••• 25 

absti'act of ... ... ... ... -.• ••• ■•• o4 

accounting, mode of ... ... ... ... ••• ■•• 46-56 

active service, special free rations ... ... ... ... 23 

V scale 35 

adjustments to be made daily ... ... ... ... ... 63 

alterations and additions ... ... ... ... ... 33 

attached soldiers, issues to ... ... ... ... ••• 50 

back issues not permitted ... ... ... ... ... 55 

barrack detention rooms (see under Prisons, &c., rations). 

„ warden, at station abroad ... ... ... ... 22 

camp, indenting for supplies ... ... ... ... ... 48 

canvas, under, meat and cheese equivalent ... ... ... 38 

certificate of issue ... ... ... ... .. ... 47, 51 

children at stations abroad ... ... ... ... ... 22 

detention barracks (see under Prisons, &c., rations). 

drills, issues on repayment during ... ... ... ... _ 

equivalents, scale of ... ... ... ... ... 29, 37, 38 

extra, repayment for ... ... ... ... ... ••. 44,45 

extras supplies on exceptional occasions ... ... ... 33 

flour in lieu of bread ... ... ... ... ... ... '-9 

forage {q.v.X 

free, special during active operations ... ... ... ... 23 

groceries, when issued ... ... ... ... ... ... 31 



211 Bat— Rec 

Rations— BO)i<tnM«rf. i'-*-^,^; 
Kvooms, civilian, at stations abroad ... ... ... ... 

loft behind during oiflcers' leave ... ... M 

homo stations, scale of ... ... ..• ••• ^8 

hospital rations and stoppages (see under Hospitals) 67-81 

inadmissible, when ir la 

indents 

India, to and from ... .-. ••• •■• •■■ ••• 

indulgence passages ... ... ••• ••• ••• ■•• 

iron, field service ... .•• •■• ••• ••• ••• °° 

issue, abroad ... ... ••• ••• •■• ••• ••• 

,, home stations ... .•• •■• ••• ■•■ ••• 

mode of ... ^6-56 

„ on repayment 

„ persons entitled to ••• ••• ••■ ••• •.- f^'. 

leave, during, of ofiicers and servants 24 

liquor (cf.t'.). ,. , . „„ 

manoeuvres or summer drill, extra supplies during 33 

marines, Royal, issues to ... "■ '"■ 

measures of liquids— milk, wines and spirits 6 J 

money allowance in lieu, abroad... ... ... ••• ... 4^ 

„ home stations, by whom drawu ... 39 

" |j „ isolated forts or stations ... ... 41 

" , „ on release from prison, &o. ... ... 26 

" ' recruit, when attestation is delayed ... 40 

„ when inadmissible ... ... ■.- 24 

ofiHcers and their families, on repayment ... ... ... ^„ ^ 

overdrawals, adjustment of ... ••• ••• ••. ••• 1'' 

„ retained for issue next day ... ... ... 27 

over-issues, surcharges for ... ... .•• ■•• ••• 5^ 

persons entitled to ... .•• ... .•• ••• ••• 22-2/ 

prisons, detention barracks, &c. (see Prisons, &c., rations), 
recreation rooms, &o. ... ... ..• ••. ••• ••• 

recruit ! 22,40 

refund in cases of overdrawal ... ■•• ••. ••. ••• .„ 

repayment, issues on ... ... ... ■.• .-. ••• 

„ methods of ... ... ... ••. ••• ••• t ' 1 5 

returns and issues, regimental ... ... ... ••• ... 

„ staff and departmental, ' &o. ... ... ... 46-48 

running account ... ... ... ••• ■.• ■.• ••• 

scale of . ^°-36 

schoolmaster on probation ... ... ... ■•. .•• "2 

schoolmistress or pupil teacher at stations abroad ... ... 22 

ship, inadmissible when subsisted at public expense ... ... 24 

„ India, to and from ... ... ... ... ... ••• 468 

„ indulgence passages _ ... .... ••. .•• ••. 467 

Bpecialissues for instructional purposes ... ... ••• 32 

„ „ on active service ... ... ... ... .•• 34 

„ „ on repayment ... ... ... ... ••. 43-45 

special reserve units, returns of rations ... , ... ... 52 

spirit ration at manoeuvres, free issue ... ... 34 

subordinates, departmental, on repaj-ment ... ... ... 44 

surcharges ... ... ... ... ..• ••• ••• ^6 

tobacco on active service ... ... ... ■•• •.• 35 

underdrawals, adjustment of ... ... ... ■•• .•• 53 

wife of soldier on married establishment at stations abroad ... 22 
Recruiting: — 

contingent allowance ... ... ... ... ... ••• 659,660 

cycles, use of by recruiters ... ... ... ••. ••• 348 

stationery for ... ... ... ... •.■ ••• ••• 593 

„ „ not supplied to territorial force adjutants ... 679 



Rec— Sep 



212 



Becruits— PAaA. 

lotlt^ing monoy when attostation delayed ... ... ... 277 

mossing allowance ... ... ... ... ••• ... 93 

ratioiiB, money nllowanoe in lieu, when granted ... ... 39, 40 

rations for, before attestation ... ... .•• ••• ••• 22 

travelling expenses ... ... ... ••• ••• .408-361,429 

„ „ coach, Ac, fares, when no railway availabb 383 

Bemount Depfits — 

forage rations, how accounted for ..' ••• .•• ••• 176 

return of liorses to 607, 619, 620, 624 

Ketention of oflicors on being retired or placed on half pay ... 4 

Kooms, oiHcers' lecture, cleaning ... .•• •.• ••• ... 501 

Boutes — 

claims under, payment of ... ... .•• ••• ••• 428 

vouchers for charges ... ... ... ••• ... 428 

Bum, free issue ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• 34, 35 



s 

School Books and Materials 682, 583, 686, 687 

School Materials, issue of at public expense ... . .. ... 577 

Schoolmaster — 

ration when on probation ... ... .., ... ... 22 

travelling allowances, rates ... ... ... ... ... 395 

„ class of accommodation ... ... ... ... 378 

Schoolmistress — 

cab, &c., hire ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 382 

fuel and light 246 

husband of, conveyance ... ... ... ... ... ... 352,378 

invalided, or retiring from service, travelling expenses... ... 351 

lodging money ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 279 

passages and travelling, class of accommodation ... ... 378 

rations abroad ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 22 

travelling allowances, rates ... ... ... ... ... 395 

School of Cookery, rations for ... ... ... ... ... 32 

School of Music, allowance to pupils attending concerts ... ... 681 

Schools, aj)paratus for teaching elementary science, allowance ... 692-694 

cleaning allowance ... ... ... ... ... 499 

Separation Allowance to Families — 

abroad, invalided home ... ... ... ... ... ... 116 

„ left behind by troops ... ... ... ... ... 116 

at home ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 116 

„ left behind by troops embarking ... ... ...116,122 

„ on mobilization... ... ... ... ... ... 116 

authority for issue ... ... ... ... ... ... 114 

casualties, how dealt with ... ... ... ... ... 124 

certificates, birth and marriage, cost of ... ... ... ... 123 

cessation, date of ... ... ... ... ... ... 118 

charges for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 122 

children, on death of mother or removal of soldier from married 

roll 104, 110, 116, 119 

circumstances in which issued ... ... ... ... ... 116 

discharge dep6t, continuation tiU discharge from ... ... 118 

furlough, during... ... ... ... ... ... ... 112 

hospital, when soldiers are in ... ... ... ... ...111,118 

inability to embark ... ... ... ... ... ... 116 

inadmissible, when ... ... ... ... ... ... 113 

invalided home from abroad ... ... ... ... ... ll'> 

issue, authorized by 0.0. ... ... ... ... — 



213 



Sep-^Ser 



Separation Allowance to Families— co»V(»(He(/. paiia. 

issue, date of 11°' j|» 

„ limitation of ... ■•. \\' 

local troops abroad, family mvahded ... ... lib 

soldier ordered to England for instruction lib 

payment, mode of ,•" ^ 10? 

promotion, date of issue of higher rates 121 

reservist rejoining colours ... ... • .110,116 

reservists and special reservists, called out on permanent 

service ' "O- ]]l 

sickness abroad ... ... •■• ••■ 

territorial force, soldiers, on embodiment 110, 116 

to whom granted 11c 

West Coast of Africa, corps on lib 

^^Tcc^m^nying officers' families 449-451, 4S3 

civilian, abroad, rations „. 

class of accommodation when travelling d7» 

" licence duty, certificate of exemption ffootnotc) ... 507 

" travelling allowances, rates ... ... . ... ... 395 

conveyance of ... ... ; ^ ^^'^ivs 

„ class of accommodation ... ... ••■ ••. o'o 

', passages in private vessels ... ... ... ... 453 

grooms (3. P.). . , . cA 

leave of absence of officers, rations during 24 

lodging money not issued to ... ... ... -. ... 2/9 

Q.A.I.M.N.S 68-2 

travelling allowances ... ... ••• ••• ••• ••• '^•'^ 

Servant Allowance — 

Europeans, regimental officers — 

adjutants, territorial force ... ... ... 524 

Irish Horse or King Edward's Horse ... ... 524 

A.S.6 522 

artillery, district officers ... ... ... ... ... o2d 

during voyages ... ... ... ... ••■ ••• 525 

engineers, leave, during ... ... ... ... ... 520 

„ limitations of issue ... ... ... ... 520 

„ mess servants ... ... ... ... ... 521 

„ mounted officers ... ... ... ... ... 518,519 

„ number of servants allowed ... ... ... 518 

foot guards, O.U. company ... ... ... ... ... 516 

infantry, 0 C. company ... ... ... ... ... 516 

restrictions on ... ... ... ... ... ••• 515 

Staff College, students at ... ... ... ... ... 517 

Europeans, staff, medical, veterinaiy, and departmental 
officers — 

death of officer 513 

leave, during ... ... ... ... ... .•• 511 

leave from abroad, limit of continuance ... ... ... 514 

leave, sick ... ... ... ... ... ... ■.• 512 

licence duty, certificate of exemption (footnote) ... ... 507 

number of servants allowed... ... ... ... ... 507, 508 

packets and hired transports ... ... ... ... 510 

rates... ... ... ... ... ... ••• 509 

soldier servant, additional ... ... ... 508 

non-European — 

during voyages ... ... ... ... ... ... 533 

grooms, number regulated by horses kept ... ... ... 526 

„ rates ... ... ... ••. .•• ••• 527 



Sei--Sta 



214 



Servant Allowance — ronlinued 

Noii-Kin()))i'.iii — conlinued. paba. 

grooms, ratos, when drawn ... ... ... ... ... 530, h'Al 

leavo, fluring ... ... ... ... ... .529 

„ „ fmm WoRt Coast of Africa ... ... 628 

„ „ 'wlion liorso is left at station ... ... 631 

numbor of sorvants allowod ... ... ... ... 52G 

ofIic(n-s not provided for in scale ... ... ... ... 530 

ratos... ... ... ... ••• •■• ... ... 527 

stations where granted ... ... ... ... ... 526 

West India Regiment ... ... ... ... ... 532 

object of... ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• ... 50G 

rcdnction of, whoii rations issued on active service abroad ... 509 

Shipwreck, indemnification for loss by ... ... ... ... 551 

Shoeing' Allowance for officers' chargers when no army 

farrier avaii.'i bio ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 626 

Shorthand Writers, omploymi'nt of civilians ... ... ... 695 

Sickness caused by Military Service, definition ... ... 75 

Sierra Leone, rates of lodging money ... ... ... ... 278 

Sleeping- Berths — 

charges for, inadmissible at home ... ... ... ... 384 

„ ,, when admissible abroad ... ... ... ... 884 

Soldier, definition of ... ... ... ... ... ... page xi 

South Africa, colonial allowance ... ... ... ... ... 306,308 

Special Reserve — 

ration return ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 52 

regular establishment, married roll, how kept ... ... ... 101 

„ „ „ „ when posted for short 

tour of duty 99, 101 

Spirit Ration, free issue ... ... ... ... ... ... 34, 35 

Spirits, measure for (footnote) ... ... ... 59 

Stable Allowance — 

abroad 303 

at home ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 302 

canvas, not issuable while under ... ... ... ... 302 

change of station... ... ... ... ... ... ... 305 

during leave, or vacancies in stables ... ... ... ... 305 

object of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 802 

officers on lodging list, when, issuable to ••• ... ... 303,304 

rates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 302 

Staff Appointments, temporary filling of, at manoeuvres, &c. ... 2 

Staff Ofllcers— 

forage included in consolidated pay ... ... ... ... 126 

lodging money on cessation of appointment ... ... ... 276 

Stamps — 

office ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 578 

postage on letters ... ... ... ... ... ... 566, 567 

„ ,, telegrams ... ... ... ... ... ... 570, 573 

Stationery — 

aj'ticles supplied at public expense ... ... ... ... 577,578 

bibles 598 

binding 578,596 

books, army ... ... ... ... ... ... ... •578 

books, military ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 603 

carriage of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 488 

chaplains, indents and supplies ... ... ... ... ... 595 

O.O., adjutant, and quartermaster, issue to, of ... ... ... 588 

condemned, regulations for clearance of ... ... ... ... 602 

cost charged against Stationery Office vote ... ... ... 678 

covers for army orders, &c. ... ... ... ... ... 696 



215 



Sta— Str 



stationery— co/i<m«e£/. 

forms (q-v.)- , 

millic acid lor sun printing _ ^/o 

hospitals and mudical inspection rooms 5.14 

indents by chaplains ■ 

military hospitals, &c. oji 

„ recruiting officers o.'o 

„ forms for 

„ responsibility for 

„ supplementary ••• ••• ••• ••• 

,, transmission, date of ... ... 

mode of, from abroad ... ... ... ooo 

i„t,.r,^.-n„nfl,. " 677,582,599,600 

latrine papei ... ... .... i i Rya 

lithographic presses and stores 

local forms, indents for 

local purchases forbidden 678 603 

maps ... ... ••• ■•• ■•■ ■■■ ■■■ ■■' ' „f.n 

„ ordnance survey ... ••• ••• •■• •■• •" "Jj? 

medical ofiScers ... ... ••. ••• ••• ••• "• 

ilfices, durable articles 

„ handed over to successor ... ... ■•. ••• oJi 

„ issued to, at public expense 07/ 

„ master gunner 

„ rates of supply 

„ recruiting officers 

„ regiment or corps 

„ stamps for 

prayer books ••• ■•■ "• 

printing, how chargeable 

„ locally 601 

printing presses ... ... •. ••• ••■ ■■• 

recruiting officers and paid recruiters ojo 

regiment or corps ... ... ••. ••• ••• •■• 

school books and materials ... ... ... ••• ••• 

stamps, office ■ ••• •■• . ••• ' 

Stationery Office vote, articles chargeable against 

supplies, issued at public expense ... _ ' 

territorial force adjutant acting as recruiting officer biJ 

transmission, date of ... ... ... .•■ ••• ••• 

mode of 

typewriting machines and- accessories ... ... ... ... 578 

useless, disposal of ... ... ... ... •• ••• ""■^ 

Steamboat Fares — 

horses, rates for 410-41S 

passengers ... , ... ... •.• ••■ ■•• ••■ ^ 

Stoppages- 267 
furniture... ... ... ••• •.. .•■ ••• ••• ^"^ 

hospital ''^~ai 

„ returns of ... ... ... •.• .■• •.• 

messing and rations on board ship ... ... ... ... 462-468 

quarters 261, -263, 267 

Storemen, pay of, contingent allowance for ... ... ... 657 

Stores — 

carriage of ... ... ... ... ■•■ ••• ••■ 487-492 

„ regimental (see also Baggage) 474, 478 

miscellaneous, allowance for ... ... ... ... ... 676 

personal effects, deceased officers or soldiers ... ... ... 476 

Straits Settlements — 

colonial allowance ... ... ... .•• ••• ••• 306 

leave ... ... ... ••. ••• ••• 308 



Str— Tra 



216 



PARA. 

Straits Settlements — continued. 

horso and forago allowance ... ... ... ... ... 170 

„ cortilicatii uh to, unnecessary ... ... ... ... 171 

oflicers in receipt of horBe allowance not entitled to horse 

• liiro, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... .;. 338 

rates of lodf^ing money ... ... ... ... ... ... 278 

servant allnwanco ... ... ... ... ... ... 526-527 

Straw for Paillasses (see Faillasse Straw). 
Subordinates — 

civilian, baggage ... ... ... ... ... ... 472 

„ passages ... ... ... ... ... ... 378 

„ proeeduro when quarters are allotted... ... ... 267 

„ quarters, when allotted ... ... ... ... 8 

„ stoppages while in hospital ... ... ... ... 73 

„ travelling allowances ... ... ... ... .395,406 

„ „ . expenses ... ... ... ... ... 353-357 

„ „ „ attending civil courts as wit- 
nesses ... ... ••• 375 

departmental, issues generally ... ... ... ... ... 8 

Subsistence — 

deserters and soldiers in arrest ... ... ... ... ... 403 

discliarged soldiers in hospital ... ... ... ... ... 73 

Supplies — 

issues of on repayment ... ... ... ... ... ... 16 

obtained through Stationery OflSce ... ... ... ... 578 



T 

Table Allowance — 

colonial governor, &o., acting ... ... ... ... ... 651 

commanding officers, granted to ... ... ... ... 645 

commencement and cessation ... ... ... ... ... 646,647 

leave, during ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 648 

rates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 645 

temporary command ... ... ... ... ... ... 649,650 

Taxes on Quarters (footnote on page 69). 

Telegrams — 

charges for ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ^70 

death of officers or men ... ... ... ... ... ...574,575 

illness of officers or men... ... ... ... ... ... 575 

improperly sent, &c., payment for ... ... ... ... 572 

private messages, prepayment for ... ... ... ... 573 

repetition ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 571 

stamps on ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 570 

when desiDatch permissible ... ... ... ... ... 569 

Telephonic Messag'es — 

prepayment of, when originating from call offices in post offices 576 

vouchers for sums expended ... ... ... ... ... 576 

when permissible ... ... ... ... ... ... 569 

Territorial Force — 

adjutant acting as recruiting officer, stationery for ... ... 579 

prize distributions, travelling expenses to, inadmissible ... 329 

rations to, return of ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 

servants, money allowance ... ... ... ... ... 515, 624 

temporary rank, with, not to affect rates of allowance ... 2 

Tobacco, on active service... ... ... ... ... ... 35 

Transvaal, rates of lodging money ... ... ... ... 278 



217 



Tra 



TABA 

Travelling (see also Travelling Allowances, Travelling 
Claims, Travelling Expenses)— 

general regulations ••• . 'oil 

persons not included in Allowance Regulations alU 

TraveUing Allowances— 

civilian subordinates "Jo- 

cycles 346, 348 

daily rates ... 

„ when issued ... ••• 

deserters, subsistence on march ... ... ... ... 

discharged soldiers 40;. 405 

families of soldiers 404, 406 

mileage rates ... ... ... ... ^ 405 

general conditions ... ... ■•• ••• ••• ••• 407-409 

local allowances when isned with daily allowance 399 

military attaches ... ... ... ■•• ••• „;V ono fnn 

motor vehicles, conveyance by ... ... ... ... 3J1-393, 399 

nightly rates ... ... ... ■•. ••• ••• ••• '^^^ 

„ „ when issued ... ... ... ■•■ ••. 396-398 

officers abroad, with troops ... ... ... ••. • .•• 407 

daily allowance, when granted ... ... ... ... 399 

„ in billets 396 

,, instruction, under ... ... ... ■■• •.• 408 

,, nightly allowance, when granted ... ... ...396,398 

„ rates ... ... ... ... •.• ••• ••• 395 

,, special cases ... ... ... ... .•• .•• 398 

., temporary absence ... ... ... ... ... 396 

„ when detained ... ... ... ... ... ... 397 

,, when inadmissible ... ... ... ... .•• 409 

payment of (see Travelling Claims) ... ... ... 417-431 

persons to whom applicable ... ... ... ... ... 396 

„ \ „ inapplicable ... ... ... ... ... 310 

rates ... ... ... ... ... ... ••• ••• 396 

recruiters, using cycles ... _ ... ... ... ... ... 348 

regulations generally concerning ... ... ... ... 311 

schoolmasters and schoolmistresses ... ... ... ... 395 

servants... ... ... ... ... ... ••■ .•• 395 

soldiers discharged ... ... ... ... ... ... 402 

„ „ mileage allowance ... ... ... ... 405 

„ in arrest on the march, subsistence of ... ... ... 403 

„ serving at home ... ... ... ... ... 401 

„ special rates ... ... ... ... ... ... 406 

special grants ... ... ... ... ... ... ...398,406 

warrant officers, in billets ... ... ... ... ... 396 

„ rates ... ... ... ... ... ... .395 

when admissible ... ... ... ... ... ... 394 

„ inadmissible ... ... ... ... ... ... 409 

Travelling Claims — 

abroad, officers on leave from ... ... ... ... ... 426 

adjustment of, by command paymaster ... ... ... ... 425, 426 

„ „ paymaster of unit ... ... ... ... 427, 428 

cab fares, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 421 

civilian witnesses ... ... ... ... ... ... 426 

counter-signature of ... ... ... ... ... ... 423 

date for submission ... ^. ... ... ... ... 417 

deserters ... : ...426,429 

form of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 417 

how supported ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 424 

India, officers proceeding to ... ... ... ... ... 429 

(B 10576) K 



Tra 



218 



Travelling- Clalma — conlinve.d. Vaua. 

utficurH omployud oil same duty ... ... ... ... 420 

„ BBpardti^U from baggage ou embarkation, Ac. ... ... 419 

paymont of i;laiiiis not under route ... ... ... 425-4'27, 4'29 

„ „ under route ... ... ... ... 428 

preparation of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 417-423 

recruits ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 429 

reserve, men transferred to ... ... ... ... ... 429 

routes ... ... ... ... ... ••• ... ... 428 

sea passages or freiglit, at home, claims to War Office ... ... 4:U 

servants accompanying officers without troops ... ... 418 

training grant, in connection witli ... ... ... ... 425 

unusual cliargos, submission of ... ... ... ... ... 430 

vouchers 421, 422, 424, 428 

Travelling Expenses — 

aides-de-camp to the King ... ... ... ... ... 313 

cab hire, officers ... ... ... ... ... ... ...380,381 

, „ , soldiers, &c. ... ... ... ... ... ... 382 

cheap and return tickets ... ... ... 412 

cheapest route to be used ... ... ... ... ... 377 

civilian subordinates ... ... ... ... ... 363-357, 378 

claims for liorse liire to be supported by receipted bills ... 334, 335 

classes of accommodation ... ... ... ... ... 378 

colonial governors, &c. ... ... ... .... ... ... 2 

cycles 346, 348 

deserters in civil custody and escort ... ... ... ...365-367 

discharged soldiers ... ... ... ... ... 362,364,429 

families of civilian subordinates ... ... ... ... 357 

„ quartermasters, &c. ... ... ... ... .... 339 

„ soldiers, class of accommodation ... ... ... 378 

„ „ not on married establishment ... ... 372 

„ „ ou married establishment ... ... ... 369 

„ „ ,, „ family defined ... 368 
„ „ „ ,, soldier sent home 

with 370 

fees, booking, and cloak I'oom ... ... ... ... ... 384 

foremen of works, military, cab hire ... ... ... ... .382 

gratuities inadmissible ... ... ... ... ... ... .384 

horses, conveyance by railway ... ...1 ... ... ... 385 

„ „ „ rates for... . . ... ... 414 

intended wives of soldiers ... ... ... ... ... 371 

military attaches, commuted allowances ... ... ... 331 

mode of couveyance ... ... ... ... ... ... 377-.385 

nurses ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 411 

officers, cab hire... ... ... ... ... ... ... 380,381 

„ chair allowance in China, &c., with ... ... ... 338 

„ class of accommodation ... ... ... ... ... 378 

„ colonial governors, &c. ... ... ... ... ... 2 

„ committee, serving on ... ... ... ... ... 313 

,, examinations, &c. ... ... ... ... ...325,326 

„ „ attachment to the staff ... ... ... 324 

„ „ before medical board ... ... ... 322 

„ forage, drawing ... ... ... ... ... ... 333 

„ „ entitled to, but not drawing ... ... ... 334 

„ horse allowance, Ceylon and Straits Settlements ... 338 

„ horses, conveyance of ... ... ... ... ... 344 

hire of 334-336 

„ „ livery expenses ... ... ... ... ... .34.5 

„ inadmissible, when ... ... ... ... ... 313,315 

„ „ „ attending distribution of prizes to 

territorial force ... ... ... 329 



219 



Tra-Ves 



Travelling: Expenses— conrmMerf. ^ ^ ^^«.j7 
coui'ses of, attain' '' 
expensos during 



officfiCiusti'iwtiou, coui-ses of, atteiiilauce at •■• i^"^^ 



^.^i- a q^,. 

issuo, goueral rule ... .. ••• ••• ••• 

leave, duriug ''^'^..I^ 

,, sick 



316 
321 



318 

„ livery expenses ... _ 

„ mounted duty, special oi q ai it 

„ on first appointment ... ... ... n,r 

„ on posting after arrival from station abroad _ 

on quitting employment under a Colonial Govern- 
ment ... ... ••■ ••• ••• ••• . 

„ servants, when on permanent duty rfw. •^4^ 

„ „ tempoi-ary duty ... ... ••■ 342, d4i5 

" staff tours, &c ^28 

„ substitute during leave... ... ... 317 

„ to or from hospitals or convalescent homes ... ... oi6 

„ vacating appointment before completion of term ... 313 

ofiBciatiug clergymen ... ... -.• ••• ••• ••• ^^'-^ 

passages (see Passagres). 

payment (see Travelling Claims) tfU 

porterage din 41^ 

railway fares ... ... ... ..• ••■ ••• ••• Jr^ 

ranks to whom inapplicable ... ... •■• ■•• •■• 

recruiters using cycles olll on Itl 

recruits 358-361, 429 

„ coach fares ... ... -.• ••• ••• ••• 

„ rejected... ... ... ■■• ;•• ••■ ••• ^"^ 

regulations generally, given in King's Kegulations ... ... 311 

reserve, soldiers transferred to ... ... ... ..• 363,364,429 

schoolmistress, husband of ... ... ••• ••• ••• 3^2 

„ invalided from abroad or retiring ... ... 361 

soldiers ' 347-350 

„ acquitted by a civil court ... ... ••• ■•• 360 

„ class of accommodation... ... ... ... ••• 378 

disobarged 362, 864, 429 

„ furlough, during ... ... ... ... ••• 349 

„ reserve, transferred to ... ... ... ... 363,364,429 

„ sent home with invalided family ... ... ••• 370 

witnesses, civil courts ... ... ... ••• ••• ••• 376,376 

„ courts-martial, courts of inquiry ... ... 373,374,426 

Treasury sanction ... ... ... ... ..- ■•• ••■ 559,652 

Turf- 
Allowance for kindling purposes ... ... ... ... '-^07 

„ under canvas... ... ... ... ... ... '^47 

Typewriters and Accessories obtained through Stationery 

Office ... 678 



u 

Unit, definition of ... page xi 

Upkeep of practice arms, allowance for ... ... ... ... 677 



Vehicles, private motor, allowances for ... ... ... ... 386-393 

Vessels, War Department, fuel and light for ... ... ... 222 



Vou— Wor 



I 

220 



Vouchers— paha. 

baggaRo, claimH for couveyanco of ... •■• ... ... 485 

for claims, whom oiidorHod ... ... ... ... ... 12 

fuel aiKl liglil -m, 226-231 

travelling claims, receipts for cab hire ... ... 421 

„ „ supported by ... ... -.• ... 424,428 

„ „ uuder route ... ... ••• ... 422-424, 428 



w 



Warehousing:, charges for ... ... ... ... ... 483 

Warrants, Travelliner, railway, stamped receipts unnecessary ... 416 
West coast of Africa — 

certificate as to horses, unnecessary ... ... ... ... 171 

colonial allowance ... ... ••• ... ... ... 306, 308 

forage and hammock allowance ... ... ... ... 169 

lodging money during leave from ... ... ... ... 291-293 

passages of ofHcers, service entitling to ... ... ... 436 

servant allowance ... ... ... ... ... ... 526-533 

Wick- 
supply of, active service... ... ... ... ... ... 255 

„ lampsticks ... ... ... ... ... ... 217 

„ lengths issued ... ... ... ... ... 215 

„ miscellaneous services ... ... ... ... 221 

„ uuder cauvas... ... ... ... ... ... 247 

Wines, measure for (footnote) ... ... ... ... ... 59 

Witnesses — 

fees to expert ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 696 

travelling expenses, attending civil courts ... ... ...37.5,376 

„ „ „ courts-martial and courts of 

inquiry ... ... ...373,374 

„ „ „ courts-martial and courts of 

inquiry, adjustment... ... 426 

Wood- 
miscellaneous services ... ... ... ... ... ... 221 

allowance for kindling purposes ... ... ... ... 207 

„ under canvas... ... ... ... ... ... 247 

Workshops, fuel and light for ... ... ... ... ... 221 




GLASGOW 

DNIVEKSITT 
UBRART 



