J j i^.j l>l t < >11MI I» WJ-.H II Il i .'l- I .FI ii "Ji.i> i iIiliilfJr r > | ta ai CT 





Ji"^ 



i ] 


^ 


k \( 


' 


I'' 


l\ 


i 


y 


ll 


'It 


1 1 


' Ih 


*■' f 1 


1 tu 

1*1 *r 


1 




i. . 





BftRBIBfeiaWS^^*-''" 



' 



I 

3 



m 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
Administration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



i--,^i?jtia'mmm 
























mmfiitff^^i>^Y^m''''>i'.' 



% 



ap 



.,j.. 






TV _^_ Cornell University Library ' 

TX 715.M924 



Louis' Every woman's cook book, 





3 1924 000 595 995 



m 



i! 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000595995 




■ 



!■' > j 









LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S 
COOK BOOK 



1; 



II 



iSr——M 



fi 



3iS 




Every Amjinani" 
Cook. Book, 



4> 



guisjy^uckensturm/ 




H'M- Caldwell Co' 

Boston, ii^ji'?. New York 






I'VfWipliMmMM^aM! 




lis 






Copyright, igio. 
By H. M. Caldwell Co. 



Ptihlished simiiltaneimsly in the United States, Great 
Britain, Canada, and British Possessions 






321S 



Elecirotyped and Printed by 
THE COLONIAL PRESS 
C. H. Simonds &» Co., Boston, U.S.A. 



i 



i 




m 



PREFACE 

The object of this cook-book is to reach the housewife 
who has personal charge of her kitchen. It is arranged 
in such a manner that selections may easily be made 
from the recipes for a small or large menu, for either 
a luncheon or dinner. First are given small appetizers, 
followed by the soups, such as clear, cream, puree, rich, 
fish, shell-fish, and essences. The fish recipes are arranged 
in a similar way, also the entrees of poultry, game, and 
meats. These are followed by roasts, joints, game, and 
birds. Some recipes for vegetables, which may be 
served as secondary entrees, are given. A variety of hot 
cheese dishes are included, and also some odd salads. 
A few sweet entremets or desserts and ice-creams follow, 
together with some suggestions for making palatable 
dishes from things left over from previous meals. 

This book is not intended for professional cooks of 
large catering places, but is written with a view to reach 
the methodical housewife, who wishes to get the most 
suitable recipes for her simple luncheons or elaborate 
diimers. 

In many of these recipes are references to various other 
recipes in the book, which can easily be found by reference 
to the index. 




li 



S i z^ ^ i g 



if 






1 



t i* 



! 



i» ^ 





TABLE SERVICE 

First cover the table with a woollen cloth to protect 
the polished surface from hot dishes. Put on the table- 
cloth, taking care to have it extend fifteen or twenty 
inches over the edge of the table. The plates should 
be set at least eighteen inches apart, the forks being 
placed on the left, the spoons and knives on the right 
of each plate. Napkins should be folded and put on each 
plate. 

In olden times the bread was put into the napkins on 
the plate, but at present it is passed around after soup 
is served. On the right of each plate are arranged in a 
circle the glasses to be used during the dinner, — one 
glass for cocktail or sherry which should be served 
with the relishes, another for white wine to be served 
with the fish, a glass for the Bordeaux to be served 
with the entree, and one for the Burgundy to be served 
with the roast. If champagne follows, the glasses 
should be set on the table when the wine is ready to be 
served. Liqueturs are served in special glasses after coffee. 
All wines and cordials are kept on a sideboard or table. 

Salt and pepper shakers should be placed in the spaces 
between the plates. Relishes, such as radishes, olives, 
salted nuts, or bonbons, should be placed at each end 
of the table, while flowers may be spread over the table 
in a natural manner pleasing to the eye. Keep fruit in 
the centre of the table. Place the menu, if any, on the 
napkin in a manner easily to be seen. 

The various meats served during the dinner should 
first be placed on the table and then taken away to be 
carved and served. Each guest should be served on 
his left, while dishes should be removed from the right. 
After the roast has been served, carefully brush the table 
and serve dessert, following which coffee should be 
served in the salon. At small dinners, coffee may be 
served at the table after the dessert. If this is done, all 
tableware should be removed before serving coffee and 
cordials. 



B»^«gME<M^^»c«bnn 



M 



t»»5fc'..«^^v,,-^iw.pi;5 



■WJ 



* 



^ 









LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S 
COOK BOOK 

CANAPES 

Canapes, or appetizers, are generally served before 
dinner. They may take the place of oysters or little 
neck clams; in gentlemen's dinner-parties they may 
be served with cocktail, bitters, or vermouth before the 
oysters or clams. 

CANAPES OF CAVIAR ^ 
Cut thin round slices of bread about two inches in diam- 
eter. Toast crisply, butter, and spread caviar over them. 
With chopped hard-boiled eggs (the whites and yolks 
chopped separately), put a border around the caviar. 
Serve with pieces of lemon. 

CANAPE CAREME^ 

Chop finely one-half of a small lobster, two pickles, and 
one truffle. Season with salt and pepper, and mix two 
tablespoonfuls of thick mayonnaise dressing with it. 
Spread on round pieces of toast about two inches in 
diameter, and then put one-half a teaspoonful of caviar 
in the centre of each canape. 

^1 CANAPES OF ANCHOVIES <^ 

1 1 Round pieces of toast, as in previous recipe, are buttered 

j| with anchovy butter. Chop the white and the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg separately. Put opposite each other, 

il on the toast, two half-teaspoonfuls of the white of the 

;| egg, and then do the same with the yolk. Then put two 

II fillets of anchovies crosswise on the toast so that the 

|| white and yolk of the egg are separated. Sprinkle a 

'• I little chopped parsley in the centre. 

I ' 

i^^'fc^ii II I II II II i'i 



iiij«,jij»H!Sgi.ag^!iataww^pia»»a'fe^w»«^ ^ 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



» S 

jm ^jjgUMjI li^— — i— — !■ J il l ii w wllWWBWiWWMBWMMMMMMIWMiM— — ^i^^^^^^^i^* 



Il 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

" To make the anchovy butter referred to, beat two 
ounces of butter to a cream, and add gradually one 
tablespoonful of anchovy paste or essence. 

DANISH CANAPES^ 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of freshly grated horseradish with 
two ounces of creamed butter, and cover thin squares of 
pumpernickel with this preparation. Put long, narrow 
strips of smoked salmon lengthwise and crosswise on j 
top of this, and place a caper in each of the little square 1; 
spaces. I 

CANAPE ORIENTALS jj 

Drain the liquid from three tablespoonfuls of chutney. ' 

Chop fine, and spread on half -moon shaped pieces of Ij 

toast. Put in the centre of the canape a stoned litchi |: 

nut, and a small star of pimento at each end. ; ' 

CANAPES OF SARDINES <53 |; 

Rub twelve sardines through a wire sieve, and put them 
in a small bowl. Mix with them two ounces of creamed 
butter, and then add one tablespoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce. Add salt and pepper if necessary. With this 
preparation cover heart-shaped pieces of toast about { If 
one-eighth of an inch thick. Put small capers around 
the edges to form a border, and put a small olive (Pimola) 
in the centre. 

NORWEGIAN CANAPES <^ 
Cut ten fillets of anchovies into small pieces. Chop 
finely two hard-boiled eggs, and also one tablespoonful 
of capers. Mix the whole with two tablespoonfuls of 
thick mayonnaise dressing, and add a little finely cut 
chives and chopped parsley. Spread on diamond-shaped 
pieces of toast, and put a small piece of smoked salmon 
on top. 

CANAPE WINDSOR <S3 

Mix one-half a cup of finely chopped cooked chicken 
and one-half a cup of finely chopped lean ham with 
two ounces of creamed butter. Season to taste, and 
spread on saltine crackers. Cut red beef tongue into 

2 

aT^ ^ IB 



a^ 



\ 



^^K^1#"I>!^.'i.'VfS.' 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






i 






i 


! 




y 


f- 





M 





LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

small thin diamonds, aind put five of them together in 
the centre of the canape to form a star. Dip the edges 
of the canape into finely chopped pistachio nuts, so as 
to form a thin green border. 

TARTINE DE FOIE GRAS <5* 
With some puff-paste prepare some low pate-shells, 
about one-half an inch deep. Remove the cover. Rub 
a small pate de foie gras through a sieve, and work it 
in a small bowl until it becomes smooth. Then add 
to it four tablespoonfuls of whipped cream and a little 
salt and pepper. Put this preparation in a paper cornet, 
with a fancy tube, and press it into the cavity of the 
flat pate. Put a round slice of truffle on top of each tartine. 

TARTINE A LA RUSSE ^ 
Prepare some low pate-shells as for the previous recipe. 
Cut into small cubes six fillets of Russian sardelles, 
three slices of smoked salmon, and one hard-boiled egg. 
Mix the whole with a tablespoonful of mayonnaise 
dressing, and put this preparation into the cavity of the 
pates. Cover the filling with sardine puree (see recipe for 
canape of sardines), and lastly put one-half a tea- 
spoonful of caviar in the centre of each tartine. 



I! 
I; 



3 



J^= -..^^.-:^=a 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
If When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






■J 
i 




M 



€- 



II 



SOUP STOCKS 

i 
How to prepare the dlf/erent stocks or boalllon for all kinds of i \ 

soups I? 

PLAIN STOCK, BOUILLON, OR MARMITE ^ | 

This stock or bouillon is the foundation of many kinds 
of soups, and may be used for different kinds of sauces, 
puree, soups of vegetables, and similar things. 

Take eight poimds shin of beef and three potmds 
knuckles of veal. Some carcasses of chicken or necks, 
wings, or gizzards of fowl should be added, as they im- 
prove the stock, but they are not absolutely necessary. 
Add two onions, one carrot, one stalk of celery, one leek, 
one bay leaf, one teaspoonful of whole pepper, two 
cloves, and a few sprigs of parsley tied up in a bunch. 
Put all this in a stock-boiler, and cover with about ten 
quarts of cold water. When it comes to a boil skim well, 
add two tablespoonfuls of salt, and let simmer slowly 
for about four hours. Occasionally take off the grease 
that floats on the top. This stock should be very clear, 
and of wholesome flavour. Strain through a soup- 
cloth, and put away for further use. 

WHITE STOCK OR FOND BLANC <^ \ 

This stock is to be used for all kinds of cream soups, 
purees, and essences. 
\} Take six pounds knuckles of veal, two fowls, and the 
i: same garnishing of vegetables as for the previous recipe. 

I I Parboil the fowls and veal bones first; wash off the 
I j scum, and then place all in a kettle with about eight 
I i quarts of water, and let it boil slowly on the range for 
about four hours; then strain through a cloth. You 
will have from four to five quarts of stock left after 
four hours' boiling. The stock should be nearly in a 
■f; jelly when cold. The fowls should be taken out when 
i cooked, as it does not require so long a time to cook 
i them, except when they are very old and tough. 
I 4 



p \. 



• <"«a»t«w«*'rAi,'. v. t/smommfrnmsKm 



i^AsiUfteasfcai-^ ',—. 



■■ ■ v ms i'tf ^mmv'^-' wv; 4i^ ■■ 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK '^ 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. | 



I 






i I 



gH^ :;^^ 



■i*,^. 






»."':* 

M 









i 



IN! 



V ! 

ii A 



^^ LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

1| The meat of the fowls may be used for various pur- 
l| poses, such as salads, croquettes, minced chicken, etc. 

|. FISH STOCK ^ 

'! For chowder, bisque, or fish sauces. 

Take the heads, bones, and skins of fresh fish, such as 
cod, haddock, halibut, or flounders, or any white-meat 
fish. (Dark-meat fish, as bluefish, mackerel, etc., are 
I not good, as they give the broth a strong, oily flavour.) 
Wash the fish well, put in a saucepan, cover with cold 
water, and garnish with an onion, leeks, celery, a few 
peppercorns, one bay leaf, a btmch of parsley, three or 
four cloves, and the heart of a lemon. Let it come to a 
boil, skim well, add some salt, and let it simmer slowly 
for about an hour. Strain through a cloth and use 
for whatever fish soup desired. If this stock is intended I 
for some kind of fish sauce, use less water, or boil the ; 
stock down to half the quantity. 

BROWN OR RICH STOCK <s 
This kind of stock is used for rich brown soups or 
sauces, as mock-turtle soup or oz-joint soup, also for 
Sauce Espagnole, which is the foundation of all brown 
sauces. 

Take a copper saucepan with a heavy bottom, if possi- 
ble. Put three or four thin slices of beef suet on the 
bottom. Add two carrots, two onions cut in thick slices, I f 
two slices of ham, a few peppercorns, three cloves, two I ! 
bay leaves, a stalk of celery split in two, and a pinch of | \ 
thyme and marjoram. Break or saw into pieces six 
pounds shin of beef, four pounds knuckles of veal, and || 
some chicken giblets. Add one cup of water, cover with i 
the lid, and let simmer slowly until the water is reduced 
and the meat and vegetables begin to fry in the fat. 
When the pieces on the bottom begin to get a nice 
brown colour moisten with a pint of white wine and six 
to eight quarts of water. Add salt and a bouquet of 
parsley. When it comes to a boil sMm off the fat and 
let it simmer slowly for at least four hours. It should 
boil down to about four quarts. If you have some 

S 



s 






f LOUIS* 



w 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 









II 



' * 



"l > 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

plain stock on hand, add some to this to make the 
broth stronger and richer. This stock shotild be clear 
and of a golden brown colour. 

CHICKEN STOCK OR BROTHS 
With two fowls you can make about four quarts of 
good chicken bouillon. 

Clean the fowls, wash them well, and always parboil 
them. It is absolutely necessary to do this, as par- 
boiling the fowls and rinsing them in cold water after- 
ward takes off that unpleasant odour which fowls com- 
monly have. Put them in a saucepan with about six 
quarts of cold water and a garnishing of vegetables like 
plain stock. Add some salt. Skim when it comes to a 
boil and let boil slowly until the fowls are cooked. It 
cannot be stated how long it will take the fowls to cook. 
Stick a fork in a leg, and if it feels tender the fowl is 
done. Before using this stock strain through a soup-cloth 
and skim off the fat. 

CLAM BROTH ^ 
Take about two quarts of Duxbury soft clams. Wash 
them well, and put them in a saucepan. Add one quart 
of cold water and boil for about ten or twelve minutes. 
Strain the broth through a cloth. Clam broth requires 
no flavouring, except perhaps a little pepper or a pinch 
of salt. 

If the clams have only ten to twelve minutes' actual i 
boiling, they are not too much cooked, and may be used j ; 
for other ptuposes. 

MUTTON BROTH AND VEAL BROTH ^ 
These two broths are made on the same principles as > 
the previous ones. The knuckles of veal for veal broth, l| 
the shanks of mutton for mutton broth, and the bones 
of both kinds should be parboiled and rinsed in cold 
water. Mutton requires more boiling than veal. The 1 1 
vegetable garnishing is about the same as for the other 
broths. If plain mutton broth is desired for invalids or 
people with delicate stomachs, a handful of pearl barley, i 
thrown in the stock when it is first put on the stove, I 




LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



I 



I 



i Si 



!i 






t L 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

gives the broth a milky appearance. This broth is 
very soothing to the stomach, also aiding the digestion. 
Veal broth is very gelatinous, especially when calves' 
feet are added to it. Calf's foot jelly can be made from 
this stock, and if the vegetables and other seasoning are 
omitted this broth can be used for sweet calf's foot jelly 
; if flavoured with wine, brandy, etc. 



?l 






m 



r^mtm^'^'sf?^.!^ ? ■'-'-^"■^■•j^'-^mvmmmmmmma^ 



( LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



W-J»M*4Mms&»e«mHKKt-'-' 



When Served. 

Guests. 



;l 



Remarks. 



I 



it—^-—^ 




SOUPS 

CONSOMME ^ 
Chop finely two pounds shin of beef, free from fat and 
gristle ; put in a saucepan, with the whites of four eggs, 
one pint of water, one-half a carrot, one-half a stalk of 
celery, one-half an onion, and a small leek, all cut fine. 
Stir well together, then add about four quarts of plain 
stock. Put on the range, and let it come slowly to a 
boiling point. Stir occasionally, but when near the || 
boiling point take out the spoon. When it boils, move 
the saucepan to where the contents will simmer for 
about one and one-half hours or more. Strain carefully 
through a cloth. 

Some carcasses of fowls, or necks, wings, etc., chopped 
up fine, and added to the beef, will improve the flavour, 
or if extra good consomme is required a parboiled fowl j\ 
should be added to the bouillon when it begins to boil. Ij 
A few drops of " Kitchen Bouquet " will give the con- : 
somme a light brown colour. 

KITCHEN BOUQUET <^ 
Melt three ounces sugar in frying-pan. Stir until it 
smokes and is of dark colour. Then add three pints 
of boiling water. Simmer tmtil reduced to one pint, 
stirring well while cooking. Bottle when cool. Used to 
give colour to soups, jellies, etc., and will keep indefi- 
nitely. 



i 



pijjp' ^'^ - "^j^ 

LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK ] 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 

I 



.»,' 






IIWH|M@^<!ra3^:«*<" ; 



CONSOMMES, OR CLEAR SOUPS WITH 
I DIFFERENT GARNISHES 

^1 It is not the intention of the writer to give a full line 
of soups, consommes, purees, and cream soups, but only 
a selection of the best and most appreciated ones. 

CONSOMME CAROLINE ^ 
To make about two quarts (enough for ten people), 

;l take one medium-sized carrot, one turnip, one stalk of 
celery, and one leek. Cut these vegetables in small dice. 

1 1 Parboil in salted water for about one-half hour, and then 
finish cooking them in two quarts of consomme. Before 
serving add two tablespoonfuls of small green peas and 
two tablespoonfuls of string beans, cooked, and two 
peeled tomatoes cut in small pieces, and lastly about 
three tablespoonfuls of small dice of Royal. 

^ ROYAL ^ 

I Royal is simply a custard seasoned with salt and red 
pepper. Take three eggs, mix well with one cup of milk, 
and poach in a tin mould. Stand the mould with the 
I custard in a pan with about one inch of water in it, 
I cover the mould with a paper, and poach slowly in a 
I moderate oven until solid. When cold cut into dice to 

I correspond in size with the other vegetables. 
This garnishing looks very pretty in a clear consomme. 

CONSOMME CELESTINE^ 
■ The following recipes show two ways of making this 
consomme. 

1. Make two large pancakes, cut them in thin, long 
strips (called Julienne), and put them in the consomme 
before serving. 

2. Cover one pancake with a chicken forcemeat; 
place the other one on top, and with a round cutter cut 
out as many pieces as you can the size of a nickel. Put 
them on a plate, and heat them in the oven for five 
minutes. This is sufliciently long to cook the forcemeat. I 
Place in the consomme before sending to the table, 

9 

I •? Z""'' T''" " T'- ■ -'■ r"--- ■■ ^-: -^ 



ll 



R$ 



i —1 


Wf^ 


LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 


n 


When Served. 




Guests. 1 


1 
Remarks. 1 





i 



» "~i 



;■! 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



CONSOMME COLBERTS 
Garnish the consomme with the vegetables used in 
Consomme Caroline, but omit the tomatoes and Royal. 
Add a small poached egg for each plate required. 




1 1 |i CONSOMME SEVIGNE 4S 

I ' ■' 

I I Take half a breast of a cooked fowl. Pound it into 

pulp. Add to it two whole eggs and the yolks of two 
others, also one cup of milk and cream mixed, salt, 
cayenne pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Strain 
the whole through a fine sieve. Butter well eight or 
ten small tin tartelette moulds and fill them three- 
quarters full with this preparation. Then stand the 
moulds in a fiat pan with a little water in the bottom. 
Cover with a paper, and cook slowly in a moderate 
oven, until solid. Take out of the moulds while hot, 
and put in the hot consomme. One for each plate. 

CONSOMME PRINCESSES* 
Take one pint of cooked green peas, fresh or canned. 
Rub through a fine sieve, and place in a bowl. Add two 
whole eggs and the yolks of three others, and one cup 
of milk and cream mixed. Season with salt and pepper. 
Put the mixtture in a buttered mould and poach slowly 
in the oven as in Consomme Sevigne. When cold cut 
in slices, and with some fancy cutters cut the slices into 

I various shapes, such as stars, diamonds, etc. Place these 

I in the hot consomme. 

CONSOMME ISABELLE^ 

I To two quarts of consomme add the following garnishing : 
Two heaping tablespoonfuls of cooked rice, two table- 
I spoonfuls each of cooked green peas, cooked string 
I beans, and peeled tomatoes cut in small cubes, and 
three tablespoonfuls of pink Royal custard cut in dia- 
monds. Let it come to a boil, and serve. 
; Royal, or seasoned custard, the recipe for which is 
I given elsewhere, is colotu-ed pink by the use of a little 
I red vegetable colouring, often used in cooking to colour 
jellies, creams, forcemeats, etc. 

10 



fm 



iii--a^«i"j.SAOviH^(,; 



IS*^»ia«»Wfji**«Wii._ .oj*Ka«w.»j. 



i*-Srt*.t.f»o»-^r-v^. ■;«»^(..M55^.W»*'?, s-J-'M^^- ^■!.-^fi,.^i.' - «)*««?^ •*««■■ •F?;- 



Il 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



5 



i 






iiii 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK ] 

V 
CONSOMME WITH CHEESE CROUTONS ^ 

This is a very simple, but palatable consomme. 

Cut as many slices of French bread, one-quarter of 
an inch thick, as you have diners. Put them on a pie 
plate or baking sheet. Cover each slice with a heaping 
tablespoonful of grated Swiss and Parmesan cheese, 
mixed. Bake in a hot oven until they' become golden 
brown. Have one crouton floating in each plate of 
consomme. 

CONSOMME MONACO^ 

(Two quarts, enough for ten people.) j 

Cut five thin slices of bread and cover about one- | 
sixteenth of an inch thick with chicken forcemeat. 
Put another slice of bread on top of the forcemeat, 
and press lightly together. With a roimd cutter, three- 
quarters of an inch in diameter, cut as many pieces as 
you can get out of the slices. Dip these pieces in beaten 
eggs, and fry them in clarified butter tmtil they become 
a golden brown colotu*. When serving the consomme 
put five or six of these pieces in each plate. 

CONSOMME FERMIERE ^ 
Cut one carrot, one turnip, and a few leaves of cabbage 
into pieces the size of a dime. Cut one-half a stalk of 
peeled celery and one onion into crescents, and slice 
one leek crosswise. Cook the whole slowly in butter 
for about twenty-five minutes; then moisten with 
about two quarts of consomme or plain stock. Let it 
simmer for one-half an hour. Skim off the butter 
occasionally. Before serving add two tablespoonfuls of 
cooked green peas, a little chopped parsley, chives, and 
chervil. 

Serve thin slices of French bread, toasted in the oven, 
with the soup. 



II 



. i*u"i'.¥*^w('va-?^-*i,rts.^^et»iift?<*!!^i w-l 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



■I 



I V 



' I 






CREAM SOUPS AND PUREE SOUPS 



f 






4'': -■'■ 



, I null I I umi <iii i wM igii wMn iiii i iM i i n |i h i^^w— i iiii 

Hi. 






CREAM OF CELERY ^ * 

Cut three stalks of celery in small pieces, wash well, I 
and drain off the water. Put the celery in a saucepan J 
with a piece of butter the size of an egg and let it cook 
in the butter for about ten minutes. (Do not let the 
I celery change its colour.) Add two tablespoonfixls of 
flour, stir well for a few minutes, and then moisten with 
two quarts of white stock. Boil for an hour, rub it 
through a fine sieve, and put it back on the stove. Heat 
it nearly to the boiling point, season to taste, and add 
I one cup of good cream and two ounces of table butter, 

I ' i I before serving. Serve small bread croutons with it. 

With most of the cream and ptu-ee soups bread croutons 
are served. Cut the bread into small dice without the 
crust. Toast them in the oven to a nice golden colour, 
or fry them in butter, on a quick fire. If fried, drain 
well, and be sure not to have them greasy. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER A LA DUBARRY 4^ 
Parboil a medium-sized cauliflower for a few minutes in 
salted water. Drain off the water, moisten with two quarts 
of white stock, and add one small onion with one clove 
in it. Let it boil until the whole is thoroughly cooked. 
Remove the onion, and rub the remaining mixture 
through a fine sieve. Put it back on the stove, and heat 
well. Mix the yolks of two eggs with one-half a cup of 
cream, and stir it in the soup before serving. Add three 
tablespoonfuls of small pieces of cauliflower to it, pre- 
viously cooked in salt water. 

CREAM OF SORREL WITH TAPIOCA^s 
Heat in a saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Have one-quarter of a peck of sorrel, or less, cleaned and 
washed. Put it in the hot butter and let it simmer for 
ten minutes. Stir it occasionally with a spoon, then 1 1 

12 



v--;te»**i?tt-3!iWBe^^v*»»'"«T ■v,iv(8gii 



" LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK I 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. : 



i| 



h 



I 




m 



m 



13 



" LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK f! 

moisten with three pints of chicken broth, and let it 
boil for ten minutes. Rub the whole through a sieve, 
put it back in the saucepan, and when boiling add two 
tablespoonfuls of French tapioca. After fifteen minutes' 
boiling move it back from the fire, and add the yolks of 
two eggs mixed with one cup of cream. Season with 
salt and nutmeg, (not pepper), and serve with small 
slices of French bread, browned in the oven. 

CREAM OF MUSHROOMS 
Wash about one pound of fresh mushrooms. Chop 
very fine, or pound them to a pulp in a mortar. Put in 
a saucepan with one-quarter of a pound of butter, and 
let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of fiour, stir well, moisten the whole with 
two quarts of chicken broth or white stock, and let it 
boil for an hour. Then rub the whole through a sieve. 
Try to get through as much as possible. Heat it again. 
Add to it one pint of heavy cream and a small piece of 
butter. Season with salt, pepper, and Cayenne. Serve 
small bread croutons with it. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN REINE MARGOT ^ 
Boil a medium-sized fowl until it is tender, so as to 
obtain about two quarts of stock. Boil about one-third 
of a cup of rice in some of the chicken stock. Then take 
one-half of the breast of the cooked fowl, free from 
bones, skin, and fat, the cooked rice, and two dozen 
peeled Jordan almonds; potmd the whole to a pulp in 
a mortar, and then rub through a sieve. Put back into 
the saucepan, and use the rest of the chicken broth to 
bring it to the thickness desired. Heat well, but do not 
let it boil. Lastly, before serving, add to it one cup of 
good credm and the other half of the breast of the fowl 
cut into small dice. Season to taste. 

Dip the Jordan almonds in boiling water to remove 
the skin. The almonds give the soup a delicate flavour. 

PUREE ST. LAMBERT ^ 
Slice one onion, one carrot, one stalk of celery, and one 
leek. Fry slowly together in butter for a few minutes. 



( 





liij!e»?Mi*«'f'(wMfe, jfi 



^ 



Z) 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



li 



* 



PUREE OF LENTILS ^ 
Soak one pint of German lentils in one quart of water 
I \ over night.. Put them on the fire with two quarts of 
common bouillon. Add one onion, one carrot, one-half 
stalk of celery, and about one pound knuckle of ham or 
a ham bone. Let them boil imtil tender. (It will take 
two hours or more.) Rub through a sieve; heat the 
strained soup again, and add a piece of butter the size 



t! ii 



jj of an egg. Serve with bread croutons, or frankfurt |; 
; sausages cut in small pieces. Season with pepper, nut- ; 
i I meg, and salt if necessary. 

PUREE OF WHITE BEANS A LA BRETONNE ^ || 
; j Soak one pint of pea beans over night. Put them on 
the fire with one quart of water and one quart of plain li 
stock. Add one-quarter of a pound of salt pork, a carrot, I 
an onion, and a half stalk of celery. Let it boil until the 1 1 
" beans are well cooked. Take the pork and carrots out 11 
; I and rub the remainder through a sieve. Have one or two 
leeks, cut in Julienne (short thin strips), cooked previ- 
ously in butter and stock. Add these to the soup and 
I also a piece of butter the size of an egg. Season well with 
pepper and serve. 
Bread croutons may be served with it. 



•5^ 



and then add two potatoes, one cup of green peas, and a. ]• | 
handful of string or Lima beans. Moisten with two i| 
quarts of plain stock and let it boil for three-quarters || 
of an hotu:. Rub the whole through a fine sieve. Heat 
well, season to taste, and add a small piece of good 
I butter and one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and 
chives. Serve small bread croutons with it. 



14 



When Served. 



tis>^g^fmsi-mf^*3>sim 



Ml 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



Guests. 

Remarks. I 

I'! 




5 



; 



I 

: 




M 



w 



RICH SOUPS 

POTAGE WESTMORELAND <^ 
Parboil half a calf's head, and then rinse it well in water. 
Put it back in the saucepan, and cover with water. Add 
an onion, a carrot, a little celery, bay leaf, thyme, pepper- 
corns, two cloves, salt, and lemon juice. When cooked, 
take the meat off the bone and press it between two 
plates tmtil cooled off. Clear the calf's head bouillon 
with the whites of two eggs. Strain it. This should 
give about a quart of stock. To this add one quart of 
consomme or brown stock, and when it is boiling thicken 
with four tablespoonfuls of French tapioca or arrowroot. 
(Dilute the arrowroot with a little water before using.) 
Cut the calf's head into small diamonds, and then take the 
same quantity of celery, previously boiled in salted water 
until tender, and cut in the same shape. Add these to 
the soup, and also a wineglassful of sherry wine, and two 
tablespoonfuls of brandy. Season highly and serve. 

GAME SOUP, OR PUREE OF GROUSE <^ 
Roast a grouse with a " Mirpoix " of vegetables. Then 
put the whole in a saucepan, and moisten with two 
quarts of brown stock. Add one cup of lentils, previously 
soaked in water. Boil until the lentils are thoroughly 
cooked. Take the meat of the grouse (with the ex- 
ception of a piece of the breast which should be cut in 
small dice), and poimd it to a pulp in a mortar. Put it 
back in the soup, then rub the whole through a fine 
sieve. Heat the soup again, but do not let it boil. Stir 
in a quarter of a poimd of table butter, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sherry wine, and a quarter of a cup of cream. 
Season well. Add the pieces of grouse meat to it before 
serving. 

Rabbit, hare, or partridge may be used instead of 
grouse. 

iA Mirpoix consists of sliced carrots, onions, and 






LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. ; 

I- 
Guests. 

Remarks. 



3 ''t 






■• I 



If 






II !i 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



I! 



I 'I 

11 



celery, a bay leaf, whole pepper, cloves and herbs. A 
I little lean ham will improve it, and give it a palatable 
flavotir. 

I POTAGE D'ARTAGNAN, OR CALF'S FOOT SOUP ^ 
Split and parboil three calf's feet, and wash off the scum. 
Put them in a saucepan with one fowl, cleaned and 
parboiled. Add the same garnishing of vegetables as for 
plain stock. Cover this with three or four quarts of 
water, and boil until tender. Remove the bones of the 
feet, and press the meat between two plates. Strain 
I the stock, and skim off the fat. Heat a piece of butter, 
the size of an egg, and to this add two tablespoonfuls of 
1 1 flour, with the stock, which should have boiled down to 
I two quarts. Let this boil for twenty minutes, and then 
|j i add a Julienne of white vegetables (onion, celery, and 
leek, previously cooked in butter and a little stock), 
l\ also the feet cut in short thin slices. Season to taste. 
Before serving add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a 
half cup of cream. 
The fowl may be used for other purposes. 
The term " cut in Julienne " means that the vegetables 
or any other articles are cut in strips about the thickness 
of a match, and one and a half or two inches long. 



't 



I OX JOINT CLEAR 4« 

i Cut an ox tail into pieces about an inch thick. Wash 

! them well in hot water. Fry these pieces in a little 

" butter with a " Mirpoix " of vegetables. Stir the pieces 

i occasionally, until nicely coloured. Moisten with two 
qtxarts of water and one quart of stock or consomme. 
M Let it simmer slowly, so as to remain clear until well 
done. Strain the stock. Remove the meat from the 
j bones, and cut it into small pieces. Cut a small carrot, 
one turnip, one onion, and one-quarter of a stalk of 
II celery into small cubes. Parboil these in water until 
more than half cooked. Then finish boiling them in the 
• soup. Add, also, a little pearl barley, which has been 
i cooked in water and well rinsed, so that the floury sub- 
stance has been removed. Then add the pieces of ox 

16 



■ ■ «««T>"S**ii**iE»f|« 



- lSf*"*S?^>^»tjo«ijt^ 



it 




LOUIS» EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 



ii 



j si—zz. — tas 



m 



'I H 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

tail. Season to taste. Before serving add one table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce and some sherry wine. 

OX JOINT THICK, OR A L'ANGLAISE ^ 
Prepare this recipe in the same manner as Ox Joint Clear, 
but thicken the stock with a little flour, which has been 
slightly browned in butter. Also add one tablespoonful 
of Harvey sauce and four tablespoonfuls of tomato 
ketchup. , 

CHICKEN GUMBO — SOUTHERN STYLE <^ 
Clean and wash a young fowl, and then cut it into four 
pieces. (Two legs and two breasts.) Fry the fowl in a 
spider with a few slices of fat salt pork until it becomes 
a light brown colotu-. Fry also in the same fat two 
large onions cut in thick slices, four scalded and peeled 
tomatoes cut in halves, and two green peppers cut in 
small pieces. Put the whole into a saucepan. Cover it 
with three quarts of water and let it boil for an hour. 
(Have the saucepan covered.) Then add one-haU a 
cup of rice and twenty fresh okra cut in pieces about an 
inch long. Boil for another half an hovu-, or more, until 
the fowl is tender. Take the fowl and the pork out of 
the soup. Tear the white meat of the fowl into shreds, 
and add these shreds to the soup. Season with salt, 
pepper, and Cayenne, and serve. 

This soup is not very attractive-looking because the 
ingredients have been cooked a great deal, but in flavour 
it is much superior to common chicken gumbo. 

SCOTCH COCKIE-LEEKIE ^ 
Cut the white parts of six leeks, one stalk of celery, and 
one onion into small strips about an inch long. Put 
them in a saucepan with a piece of butter the size of an 
egg. Cook slowly and stir occasionally. Let it cook I 
for about ten minutes, but do not let it change colour. | 
Moisten with two quarts of good chicken broth, and when 
it comes to a boil, skim off well. Then add a pint of 
potatoes, cut the size and shape of a dime, and one- | 
quarter of a cup of rice. Let the whole boil until tender, 

17 



i ■ 



i' 



^1 






-M-lOMVlljKl^-WVB, Ij 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Selrved. 

Guests. 

Remarks. ! 



I' 



k 



m 







LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

and lastly add half of a breast of a cooked fowl, cut in 
small strips like the vegetables. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

:■ Dried prunes, previously cooked in water, and cut in 

1 1 small pieces, may be added if desired. 



i8 






w. 



I- ' LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Gueists. 

Remarks. 



T» 



If, 



at — ::zj5 ' 




l\ 



ESSENCES 

ESSENCE OF TOMATOES <s 
Cut up two quarts of fresh ripe tomatoes, and put them 
in a saucepan with the whites of three eggs, one-half a 
carrot, an onion, and a few wings, necks, and gizzards of 
chicken, also a pound of knuckle of veal, finely chopped. 
Mix the whole thoroughly, and add two quarts of chicken 
stock. Let it come to a boiling point. Stir it up carefully 
occasionally, and then move it to a part of the stove 
where it will continue to boil slowly for at least an hour. 
Season with salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of sugar. 
Strain through a soup-cloth carefully. 

When served hot, in soup-plates, put a slice of toasted 
French bread in each plate. Omit the crouton if served 
in cups. 

In warm weather it may be served cold. 

ESSENCE OF CELERY ^^ 

This is very simple to prepare. 

Wash two stalks of celery. Chop very fine, and then 
put it into two quarts of white stock or chicken broth. 
Let it boil for about half an hour and then strain it. 
Season to taste. Serve in cups or in soup-plates with 
toasted slices of French bread. 

ESSENCE OF MUSHROOM 4^ 
Pound one pound of fresh mushrooms (white ones pre- 
ferred) to a pulp. Mix well with the whites of three eggs 
and a half of a stalk of celery (cut up). Then add three 
quarts of chicken broth, and let it boil slowly for an hour. 
Strain through a cloth and season with salt and pepper. 
Serve in cups. Add bread croutons if served in plates. 

Do not use tin pans to cook this essence. It will turn 
very dark in that kind of a vessel. Agate saucepans, or 
tin-lined copper saucepans should be used. 

19 




' 4f3iV'jJea?,i^^'M((j»¥:,a^-.-5( 



r. ■'._'«*»i«*,*-*_*w,si^i^twft'i*>) J sj'" ^a » ! MM a a )wi ^ a«f*^&^Tafc' ■'» 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK { j 
When Served. 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



t S 



il 



■I 



I ^^Bfcrij^^mpn^ljjj^paa Will" tftmr ■-"■"■jBijBwiaM^w l!ia «IWl|W»MWMWMWW^ ^H^B 



: I 






'>-A£-fe*^Ji«&i.&S,i*K- "-^tSiS 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

ESSENCE OF CHICKEN AND CLAMS ^ 
Mix an equal quantity of strong chicken broth and clam 
broth. Serve in cups, with whipped cream. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF ^ 
Mix two pounds of lean beef, finely chopped, with the 
whites of two eggs. Then add three quarts of plain 
stock. Let it boil down to three pints. Strain through a 
soup cloth and serve in cups. 

BEEF TEA ^^ 
Chop three pounds of lean beef very fine. Put it in a stone 
jar with a narrow mouth. Add one tumbler of water, 
and hermetically close the jar. Stand the jar in a sauce- 
pan filled with boiling water, deep enough to reach 
three-quarters of the height of the jar. Keep the water 
boiling for at least two hours. This will be long enough 
to extract all the juice that is in the beef. Strain through 
a cloth, and skim off the fat. 

BEEF JUICED 
Broil rare, in slices, foxu- pounds of lean hip or rump 
steak. Then cut it in small pieces, and press out all the 
juice. This juice may be heated by placing the cup in 
hot water. 

Four pounds of beef will make only one cup of juice. 



20 



w- — i« 




WiSe^WFKlte^SWiHter- *t-i 



■me^^mtKUWHi 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 



m 



Remarks. 



I 

'J' 



i 



! 



i» IS 




I 



PISH SOUPS AND SHELLFISH SOUPS 

FISH CHOWDER — BOSTON STYLE <53 

Split, skin, and bone half a codfish (the head end.) Cut 
the meat into pieces two inches square. Put the head, 
bones, and skin into a saucepan with a garnishing of 
vegetables, like any other stock. Add three quarts of 
water, let it boil for half an hour, and then strain. Cut 
one-quarter of a pound of fat salt pork and a big onion 
into very small dice. Fry them together, until the pork 
is nearly melted. Add two tablespoonfuls of floiu:, and 
then moisten with two quarts of the fish stock. Add a 
pint of raw potatoes cut in cubes, and boil until cooked. 
Then add the pieces of fish, and boil for six or eight 
minutes more. Before serving add one pint of milk 
and cream mixed. Season to taste and serve with pilot 
crackers. The crackers may be served separately, or 
broken up in the soup. 

1 
CLAM SOUP DUXBURY <^ 

Boil two quarts of Duxbiury clams in three pints of 
water for ten minutes. Strain the broth. Melt in a 
saucepan a piece of butter the size of an egg. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir well, and add the clam 
broth. Let it boil for fifteen minutes. Pick the clams 
out of the shells, and remove the hard parts. The soft 
parts should be washed well, as they may be sandy. 
Add them to the soup. Lastly, mix thoroughly one pint 
of milk and cream with the yolks of two eggs and stir 
it into the soup, also add a small piece of table butter. 
Season with salt and pepper. Do not let it boil any more 
before serving. 

MOUSSELINE OF CLAMS ^ 
Thicken three pints of boiling clam broth with one 
II tablespoonful of cornstarch, diluted in water. Let it I! 
boil for a few minutes. Have the yolks of three eggs 

21 






— =Hg 

1^ LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






•■ 



w 



» « 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

I well mixed with one pint of cream, and stir this into 

I the broth. Remove from the fire. Add a wine-glass- 

I fill of sauterne wine, salt, and Cayenne pepper. Serve 

I with thin slices of French bread browned slightly in the 

■ oven. 

I BISQUE OF LOBSTER ^ 

i Slice a small carrot, an onion, and a little celery. Fry 
'i them slightly in butter, and then add to the vegetables a 
medium-sized live lobster, cut into pieces, and fry together 
for a few minutes, until the shell of the lobster turns red. 
Add two ponies of brandy and set fire to it. When the 
brandy has btuned out add one tablespoonful of floxir 
and a quarter of a cup of raw rice. Moisten it with two 
quarts of ordinary white stock and let it boil for forty 
minutes. Take the lobster out of the soup, and remove 
the meat from the shell, reserving the meat of the 
claws. Pound the remainder of the lobster meat to a 
pulp, rub the whole through a wire sieve, and put it back 
into the soup. Try to get as much rice and meat through 
as possible. Heat the soup again to the boiling point, 
and add one cup of heavy cream. Cut the meat of the 
lobster claws into small dice, and add to the soup. 
When serving put a few small bread croutons into each 
plate. I ! 

BISQUE OF OYSTERS, FAMILY STYLE <^ 
To one pint of freshly opened oysters, in their own liquid, 
add one quart of water, eight water crackers broken into 
pieces, an onion with two cloves, and a few sprigs of 
celery. Boil together for twenty minutes or more. 
Strain off the liquid, and remove the onion and celery. 
Pound the oysters and crackers to a pulp in a mortar, 
and put them back in the liquid. Let it boil again, and 
then strain through a wire sieve. Heat the bisque 
again, and season with salt and cayenne. Add one-half 
a pint of cream or good milk and a small piece of butter. 
Serve with bread croutons, or parboil two dozen small 
oysters in their own liquid, remove the hard parts of 
the oysters, and add the remainder to the soup. 

22 

at Wl 



1 LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. i 

Remarks. I 



• 



t 



li 




M 



r 



vii-.^.-AdUvKiSfl^taMtt^ 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



; ,1 CREAM OF OYSTER CRABS ^ 

I ll With one-quarter of a pound of butter, three table' 

I II spoonfuls of flour, and three pints of chicken stock 
I': \i prepare a soup. Fry in butter one and one-half pints 
i > of oyster crabs, free from pieces of shell and liquid, 

II II until they become a nice red colour. Then add them 
If to the soup, and let it boil for twenty minutes. Rub 
»| the soup through a fine sieve, and then heat it again. 

'. Add one cup of cream, and season to taste. Serve pufif- 
11 paste croutons with it. 

1 1 To make puff-paste croutons roll out a small piece 
1 1 of puff-paste with sufficient four, so that it will be the 
it thickness of pasteboard. Cut it into half-inch squares, 

iand fry them in deep fat to a golden colour. Put the 
croutons on a napkin to dry off the fat. Serve separately, 
or put them in the soup. 



le- I 




23 



>:-BfeaffW&P & w aw Ki>BBfci 



si 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



: i ■ i 



.' 



i it 

I 



at ^B 






n 



HOT SIDE-DISHES, OR HORS - D'CEUVRES 
CHAUDS 

These side-dishes may be served before or after the fish, 
or instead of the fish. Care should be taken that small 
and dainty side-dishes are prepared, so as to have just a 
" bouchee " (mouthful). 

CROUSTADE OF MUSHROOM <^ 
Butter six tin tartelette moixlds, measuring about two 
and one-half inches in diameter. Line them with puff- 
paste, and fill with cracker crumbs. Bake tmtil crisp. 
Remove the crumbs, and dry the tartelette shells in the 
oven for a few minutes. Prepare also six covers made 
of puff-paste, and bake separately. Boil one-quarter 
of a pound of mushrooms, cut in pieces, in two-thirds of 
a cup of cream, for fifteen minutes. Thicken the cream 
with fiour and butter, and add salt, pepper, and Cayenne. 
Fill the shells, put the covers on, and serve on folded 
napkins. 

CROUSTADE OF FROGS' LEGS^ 
Line six tartelette moulds with the following paste: 
One-half a pound of floiu:, one-quarter of a pound of 
butter, and a pinch of sugar rubbed together between 
the hands, so that it will form into crumbs. To this 
add the yolks of three eggs, and one gill of water. Mix 
together, but knead only enough to mix thoroughly. 
Put in the ice-box to cool. Then line the tartelette 
moulds with this paste as in the previous recipe. Boil 
I for ten minutes twelve frogs' legs in a little white wine, 
lemon juice, salt, and half a cup of chicken stock. Strain 
off the broth, and prepare a white sauce with it. Take f 
the meat of the frogs' legs, and add it to the sauce, also i I 
two cooked fresh mushrooms, and one truflSfe cut in || 
small strips. Mix the yolk of an egg with a little cream, || 
and stir into the filling. Season, and fill the croustades r 
and place a slice of truflSe on top of each. 

24 



r.' if^fttfl '-Irt* W-1^ ''-i . 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 




m 



{'■ 



fk 



M 



;» 



f LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

SCOTCH CANAPES ^ 
Parboil one poxind of smoked haddock (finnan haddie). 
I Remove the meat from the bones and skin, and break 
I into small pieces. Fry a finely chopped onion in butter, 
1 1 and add two chopped mushrooms and a tablespoonful of 
flour. Moisten with one-half a cup of milk or cream, 
and let it boil for a few minutes. Add the picked fish, 
the yolk of an egg, one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese, chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Remove from 
the fire, and let it cool. Cut slices of bread about two 
and one-half inches in diameter. Toast on one side 
only. Cover the toasted side of the bread with this 
preparation, about one-half an inch thick (dome shape. 
Sprinkle bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over 
it, also a little drawn butter. Bake in the oven until they 
become a nice golden colour. Serve on folded napkins. 

CANAPES OF HARD SHELL CRABS ^ 
Take the meat of twelve cooked, hard shell crabs. Be 
careful to pick out all the small pieces of shells. With 
a piece of butter the size of a small egg, one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of fiour, and one cup of milk and cream 
mixed, prepare a pretty thick cream sauce. After a few 
minutes' boiling add the crab meat and a little sherry 
wine, and also the yolks of two eggs. Cook for two 
minutes, then remove from the fire and let it cool. Cut 
pieces of bread in the shape of a horse-shoe, about two 
and one-half by two inches. Toast on one side. Put 
this preparation on the toasted side, sprinkle grated 
cheese and bread crtmibs over it, and also a little drawn 
butter. Brown in the oven. When serving put a small 
piece of broiled bacon on each canape. Serve on napkins. 

The tmtoasted side of the bread will be toasted crisp 
enough while the filling on top is baking. If the bread 
is toasted on both sides, the part resting in the pie-plate 
or pan is apt to get burned or too crisp. 

LOBSTER EN BROCHETTE^^ 
Remove the meat from the tail and claws of a cooked 
lobster. Cut the tail into slices about one-half an inch 



«to^«6^iifc;i*>'JJ ^, i. 



r 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



If When Served. 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



i 

I 



3 






IS 



H^iSi^'i^.- ," ',i>e^; 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

thick, and the claws cross-wise into two pieces. Have 
as many pieces of fat bacon, one and one-half inches 
I . square, as lobster, slightly fried. Put the pieces of lobster 
and bacon alternately on silver skewers. Season with 
salt and pepper, dip into drawn butter, and then into 
bread crumbs. Broil on a slow fire until nicely browned. 
Put on oblong pieces of toast and pour a little " Maitre 
d'Hotel " butter over them, and garnish with a piece of 
lemon. 

" Maitre d'Hotel " butter is made by mixing into the 
butter, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. 

BROCHETTE OF SWEETBREAD 

j| (TOMATO SAUCE) <^ 

11 Cut some parboiled sweetbreads into round slices, about 
one inch in diameter and two-thirds of an inch thick. 

i| Fry them slightly in butter; also as many pieces of bacon 
] as sweetbread. Arrange them on silver skewers as in 
the previous recipe. Season with salt and pepper. Bip 
into drawn butter, and broil for five minutes on a slow 
fire, turning the skewers once or twice. Dip them into 
butter again, then into bread crumbs, and broil to a nice 
golden colour. Serve on oblong pieces of toast, and put 
tomato sauce in the bottom of the dish. 



MUSHROOM EN SURPRISE ^ 
Cook for fifteen minutes one pound of fresh mushrooms, 
well washed, but not peeled, with a gill of stock, the juice 
of one-half a lemon, and one oxmce of butter. Strain off 
the juice, and squeeze all the liquid out of the mushrooms. 
Then chop the mushrooms, not too fine. With butter, 
flour, and the mushroom juice prepare a thick sauce. 
Let it boil for a few minutes, and then add the chopped 
mushrooms. Mix the yolks of three eggs with one- 
quarter of a cup of thick cream and stir into the prepa- 
ration, also two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped ham. 
Continue to stir it, on the fire, until it becomes thick, 
like any other croquette preparation. Season with salt, 
Cayenne, and nutmeg, and then remove from the fire, 

26 




iM?>'W!s?^ vamm!^mmmse^0^ 




Baj««H»i|'#-!^!.v**<ffi. M 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 




|ift*W%^'-»^»IW« 



Si 






LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

and let it cool on the ice. When very cold and solid, 
make two kinds of croquettes, one the shape of mushroom 
heads, the other like mushroom stems. Make the latter 
pointed at one end. Have both kinds well breaded, fry 
in deep fat, and drain well. Then stick the stems in the 
mushroom heads so as to have a whole mushroom. 
Serve on napkins with fried parsley. 

RISSOLES POMPADOUR <^ 
Cut into small cubes one parboiled sweetbread, three fresh 
mushrooms, two ounces of cooked breast of fowl, and one 
truffle. Fry the sweetbread and mushrooms in a small 
saute pan for five minutes. Then add the chicken and 
truffle. Moisten with a small glass of sherry wine, and 
let it simmer for a few minutes more. Add half a cup 
of cream sauce, and let it boil well together. Add the 
yolks of two eggs mixed with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Season and put on a plate to cool. Make two 
large pancakes, and with a fancy rotmd cutter, three 
inches in diameter, cut fotu- round slices out of each pan- 
cake. Put a ball of this preparation, the size of a walnut, 
on each round piece. Wet the edge with the yolk of an i 
egg, and turn one-half over so as to form a half -moon. !' 
Then dip them into flotu-, beaten eggs, and bread crumbs, I \ 
and fry in deep fat. Serve on folded napkins. | ' 

RAVIOLI NAPOLITAINE ^ 
There are scores of recipes for Ravioli, but this one will -^ 
be found simple and good. 

Chop very fine two otmces of cooked fowl, two ounces 
of ham, four ounces of cooked spinach, free from mois- |i 
ture, one otmce of walnuts, and a quarter of a parboiled ; ! 
calf's brain. Fry two chopped shallot onions and a clove | j 
of garlic in two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. Add one -: 
tablespoonful of fiour, and moisten with half a cup of 
chicken stock or consomme. Let it boil, and then add |' 
the chopped ingredients. After simmering for a few 
minutes add the yolks of two eggs and two tablespoon- |j 
fuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Remove from the > 
fire, and set to cool. With this preparation make rissoles | ] 

27 






• '>W-WEr.»-'yfiiw«s.^*!-9* 



^ LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 



it I 






LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

as in the previous recipe, but use trimmings of puff- 
paste instead of pancakes. Parboil the rissoles for two 
minutes in salted water. Take them out with a skimmer, 
and place them in a well-buttered baking-pan. Sprinkle 
freely with grated Parmesan cheese, and add also a 
little melted butter. Bake for six or eight minutes. Lift 
up the rissoles with a palette knife, and put in a platter 
with tomato sauce in the bottom. Serve very hot. 




BOUCHEES OF OYSTER CRABS ^ | 

I ; I Prepare six small pates of puff-paste, known in French f ; 

f as " Bouchees." Fry half a pint of oyster crabs in butter ? 

Is J I tmtil they become a bright red colotu:. Moisten them fi 

|[, if with two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, and let them 1' 

|; ':! simmer for a few minutes. Add a quarter of a cup of |:< 

I cream, and when it comes to a boil stir into it a heaping 1 1 

II II teaspoonful of floiu:, previously mixed with two ounces 
j ; of butter and the yolks of two eggs. Stir gently until it 
11 1 1 thickens, and then add a dash of brandy and season with 

I salt and cayenne. Fill the cavities of the pates with this 
11 preparation, put the covers on the pates, and serve on 

1 1 folded napkins. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

\t 

] HUNGARIAN CROQUETTES ^ 

Parboil two calf's feet, wash off the scum, and then 

I I II boil in water with a small garnishing of vegetables. 
I ( When well done, remove the bones, and press the meat 
|| 1| between two plates. When cold, cut into cubes, also 

three cooked fresh mushrooms and four ounces of lean 
cooked ham (Virginia ham preferred). Add a table- 
spoonful of chopped fried onions. With the strained 
stock reduced to a pint prepare a thick sauce, and when 
boiling add the above articles, also salt and one teaspoon- 
fid of paprika. Then stir into it the yolks of two eggs 
mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream. After two 
minutes remove from the fire, and let it cool. Form flat 
round croquettes, two inches in diameter and one-half 
an inch thick; dip into flour, eggs, and bread crumbs, and 
fry in deep fat. Serve on folded napkins. | 

28 

,- - ^ ^.^^ . ._ ,..,..^,.._ _^__ ^^^ 

___ _ ^ ^ fl^ 




— ^ 

LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



'^ 






LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

MARROW FRITTERS ^ 

Soak the marrow of two bones in water for two hours, 
and then parboil or poach in water until cooked. Cut 
slices about one-half an inch thick from the thick part 
of the marrow. When cold cover the slices with a Sauce 
Bordelaise and let them cool again. Then roll in bread 
crumbs. Dip the slices in a batter, and fry in deep fat. 
Drain off the grease well, and serve on napkins. 



1^ 



I 4 



20 



& 



JL 

m 



If LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK f! 

\i When Served. 

Guests. I ; 



Remarks. 



i 






i 



3 



ii !| 



I! 

I) 



FISH 

It is not the intention of the author to give recipes 
for plain boiled, fried, or broiled fish, as any beginner in 
cooking knows these simple recipes, but to give a limited 
number of attractive and palatable fish courses. 

To prepare some of these fancy fish courses, it is 
necessary to use fish forcemeat, so the way to prepare 
it is given in the following recipe. 

FISH FORCEMEAT ^a 
The best fish for forcemeat are striped bass, halibut, and 
redsnapper. Salmon and Spanish mackerel are good for 
certain dishes. All are prepared the same way. First 
prepare a panade as follows. Cut three slices of fresh 
sandwich bread, each about an inch thick. Trim off the 
crust and soak for a moment in cold water, just enough to 
wet it well. Squeeze out all the water, and put into a small 
saucepan with a very small piece of butter. Then work 
it, on the fire, until it becomes pasty. Spread out on a 
plate, and let it cool. Chop one pound of halibut, or 
any of the other fish mentioned, very fine. Put it in a 
mortar, and pound it to a pulp. Add the prepared cold 
panade, and mix thoroughly. Then add three whole 
eggs and the yolks of three eggs, one by one. Season 
with salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and Cayenne, and rub 
the whole through a wire sieve. Put it into a mixing 
bowl, and place on the ice for half an hour. Then work 
the forcemeat with a wooden spoon, and add gradually 

I three-quarters of a cup of thick cream. Take a small 
lump of the forcemeat, and poach in hot water. If it is too 
\ solid add a little more cream, or if it should be too soft add 
I another egg. Put it back on the ice for further use. 
I Forcemeat of fish, or meat, should always be kept cold, 
as it is apt to curdle if left in a warm place. 

PAUPIETTES OF SMELTS (WHITE WINE SAUCE)<^ 
;: Clean six large smelts, cut off the heads, tails and fins. 
I Split them in two lengthwise, and remove the bones. 

I 30 



\i 






m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



! 



5? 



* 



h 



1 






Wr —'—^ 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

Flatten the fillets with a knife. Season with salt and 
pepper. Cover the inner halves of the fish with fish 
forcemeat, about one-eighth of an inch thick. Roll up 
the fillets from the head parts toward the tails, so as to 
have nice round paupiettes. Put some of the forcemeat 

II 11 into a paper cornet with a fancy tube at the end, and 
I 1 1 make a rosette on the top of each paupiette; lastly put 
1 a fancy cut slice of truflBe on top of each rosette. Put 

I \ i f them in a fiat saucepan, close together, so that they 

III cannot open. Add juice of a lemon, a glass of Sauterne 
1 1 wine, and a gill of fish stock. Cover the pan, and let 

I I • them simmer slowly for about eight minutes, or until 
they are cooked. Dish up on a fish platter, and surroxmd 
with a sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce). 

SMELTS SAUTE MEUNIERE ^£ 
Dip the cleaned smelts, seasoned with salt and pepper, in 
milk and flour. Then fry them in clarified butter, in a 
fiat frying-pan, to a nice golden colour. Dish them up on 
a fish platter. Then add a little fresh butter to that in 
which the smelts have been fried, and heat until it becomes 
a light brown colour (noisette). Then add a dash of 
tarragon vinegar and the juice of a lemon. Pour over 
the smelts, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Garnish 
with slices of lemon dipped in chopped parsley. 

FILLET OF SOLE VENITIENNE<S 

Take two fresh fiounders (American soles), skin them, 

and take o£F the fillets. Double them over, and arrange 

them in a flat saucepan, slightly buttered. Season, and 

j add one glass of Sauterne wine, the juice of a lemon, 

I and a gill of fish stock. Cook for about eight minutes 

i and then dish up on a platter. Add to the liquid the 

I fish has been cooked in one scant tablespoonful of fiour 

I mixed with a tablespoonful of butter, and let it boil for 

five minutes, to form a sauce. Then add two tablespoon- 

fuls of Venitienne butter. 

Venitienne butter is made as follows: One table- 
spoonful of cooked spinach, a few sprigs of parsley, and 
also tarragon, chives, and chervil are potmded to a pulp 

31 

• -■'''•'^'^"■■"n'^Y~°i''inti — linTirfinnrfnrjM 



»r,w^^^S*^^ii*«i*«*»cy ■ .'«;+''Kl!3!ftei^¥8S5fe<io':?#S 




II.'^. "i 1. t •-■A.'/", 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



I LO 



I When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

with two ounces of butter, and then the whole is rubbed 
through a fine sieve. 



tl I 



1 ' ■ 1 




! i' 1 


s '; 


1 :i 



FILLET OF SOLE HOTELIERE ^ 
Put eight fillets of sole, doubled over, in a metal baking- 
dish, well buttered. Chop fine one-half a small onion, 
two fresh mushrooms, and a few sprigs of parsley, and |; 
11 sprinkle over the fish, also a pinch of fiour. Season with || 
salt and pepper, and add the juice of one lemon and a 
small glass of Sauterne wine. Surround the fillets with 
i| twelve oysters, in their own liquid, and sprinkle a few 
II bread crumbs and a little drawn butter over the whole. 



S! 



Put the fish in a moderate oven, and let them cook for 
fifteen minutes, or more. Baste the fish occasionally 
with their own liquid. When cooked, sufiicient liquid 
(now thickened a little by the fiotur and bread crumbs) 
will be left to cover the fish of each diner. This is a 
very palatable fish course if properly prepared. 

FILLET OF HALIBUT GIRARD ^ 
Cut six fillets of halibut heart-shaped. Season with salt 
and pepper, and cover one side of the fish with fish force- 
meat, about one-eighth of an inch thick. Dip a table- 
knife into the white of an egg, and smooth the surface 
of the forcemeat right to the edge of the fillets. Arrange 
them in a flat buttered saucepan. Cut some thin slices 
of truffle into fancy shapes, such as stars, hearts, or 
diamonds, and with them put a design on the top of 
each fillet. Red pimento may also be used for decoration. 
1 1 Then add juice of a lemon, and a little white wine. Put 
the cover on the pan, and cook slowly for eight or ten 
minutes. Dish up on a platter. Boil down the liquid 
to two tablespoonfuls, and then stir this fish essence 
11 1 1 into some Hollandaise sauce. Surround the fish with this 
, I sauce and serve. 

I HALIBUT MAJOR DOMO ^ 

i [ \i Put eight nice pieces of halibut, free from skin and bones, I! 

1 1 If in a metal baking-dish. Season with salt and pepper, 

: and add the juice of one-half a lemon, and two table- 11 

32 11 







38 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. | 



iBi " Wl 

wBStsssssssssssssss^ < < i ■ ■ « ■— m^ 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

spoonfuls of stock or water. Cover with a buttered 
paper, and cook in the oven for five or six minutes, until 
nearly half-cooked. With one cup of cream and milk 
mixed, butter, and flour prepare a thick cream sauce. 
Let it boil for ten minutes, and then add two ounces 
of table butter and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. 
Pour it over the fish, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and 
cook in a moderate oven until nicely coloured. Put 
eight slices of broiled bacon, cut very fine, on the baked 
fish, and serve. 



I 



STRIPED BASS A LA BERCY ^ 
Put as many pieces of striped bass as required, free from 
bones, into a flat buttered saucepan. Cover these pieces 
of bass with one-half a pint of strong fish stock. Season 
with salt and pepper. Cook the fish until done, and then 
dish up on a platter, and keep warm. Thicken the stock, 
which should be boiled down to a gill, with a little flour 
and butter, and then stir into it slowly about four ounces 
of butter. Add a teaspoonful of finely chopped shallot 
onions, previously fried in butter, and some chopped 
parsley. Then add the juice of one-half a lemon, and 
pour over the fish. Serve small, round, boiled potatoes 
with it. 

SEA BASS MAITRE D'HOTEL ^ 
Split a sea bass in two. Season. Dip in olive-oil, and 
broil. To two ounces of butter add a little salt, pepper, 
the juice of one-half a lemon, and some chopped parsley. 
When the fish is cooked cover it with this butter. Put 
the platter in the oven, so that the butter will melt. 
Surround with pieces of lemon, and serve. 



FRESH MACKEREL SAUTE IN BUTTERS 
Split a mackerel in two. Remove the bones and head. 
Season with salt and pepper. Dip in milk and flour, and 
fry in butter, in a flat frying-pan. When cooked to a 
nice golden colour, dish up on a platter. Add a little 
fresh butter to the frying butter, and potir over the fish. 



± 



33 



f-miam tf^smtfvMowwM 






« 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. ! 'I 



I 




M 



»ar 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



!( 






Sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve with pieces | 
of lemon. 

SPANISH MACKEREL MARINIERE ^ 
Split a Spanish mackerel, and cut in pieces to suit. 
Cook as in the previous recipe. Put the fish on a platter, 
and keep it warm. Remove half of the butter in which 
the fish was cooked. To the remaining butter add 
twenty-four clams, the soft parts only, and twelve 
shrimps, cut into pieces. Sprinkle a teaspoonful of fiour 
over it, and then moisten with a gill of clam broth. 
Let it boil for a few minutes, and then add two ounces 
of fresh butter, the juice of one-half a lemon, and some 
chopped parsley. Season more if necessary, and pour 
the whole over the fish. 

PAUPIETTES OF TROUT-MANTOU ^ 
Clean the trout; split them in halves, and prepare in 
the same way as paupiettes of smelts. But add to the 
fish forcemeat one tablespoonful of finely chopped 
truffle and one teaspoonful of parsley. Instead of the 
fancy cut slice of truffle on top of each rosette, put a 
round piece of pimento. Put the paupiettes close to- 
gether in a fiat saucepan, and moisten with a glass of 
Sauterne wine, juice of one lemon, and one-half a gill 
of fish stock. Put on the cover, and let it boil slowly 
imtil cooked. With a small piece of butter, a little 
flour, and the fish stock in which the paupiettes have 
been cooked, prepare a sauce. When boiling add the 
yolks of two eggs. Remove from the fire, and add 
gradually two tablespoonfuls of lobster butter. Put the . 
sauce aroimd the fish. 

The lobster butter is made as follows: Pound in a 
mortar the shells of two lobsters with one-half a pound 
a butter until the shells are crushed into small pieces. 
Then cook in a saucepan until clarified. Strain the red 
butter through a mousseline cloth. 

TROUT BAKED IN CREAM ^ 
Clean as many brook trout as required. Season with 
salt and pepper; dip in milk and fiour, and put them in a 

34 



j 



I LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 






ik 





LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

well-buttered metal baking-dish. Cover the trout (if 
four or five) with one cup of good cream, and sprinkle a 
little grated Parmesan cheese over them. Start them to boil 
on top of the range, and then put the dish in a moderate 
oven to bake for twelve or fifteen minutes, or until they 
are thoroughly cooked and nicely browned on top. Put 
the baking-dish on a platter with a napkin, and put 
half slices of lemon on the edge of the metal dish, and 
serve. 

TROUT IN JELLY <^ 
Clean and wash six small brook trout. Put them in a 
flat stewing-pan, cover them with cold water, and add 
salt, an onion, one-half a carrot, spices, and one-half 
a gill of vinegar. Let it come to a boil, and then remove 
from the fire; let it cool in the liquid. Put the trout on a 
plate. Add some gelatine to the fish stock, suflicient to 
stiffen it, and clear it with the whites of two or three 
eggs. Strain the jelly and let it get cold, but not solid. 
Decorate some long, narrow tin moulds — about seven 
inches long, two inches wide, and one and one-half 
inches high — with pieces of hard-boiled eggs, pickles, 
capers, and small slices of tomatoes. Put enough jelly 
in the moulds to make the pieces remain in place. Put 
the trout into the moulds, and fill in gradually with the 
jelly, so as to cover the fish. When set, dip the moulds 
into warm water, wipe well, and turn them out on a 
platter. Garnish with shredded lettuce, or lettuce leaves. 






m 



35 



i 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK |I 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



i 



SALMON 

Salmon is usually boiled whole, or ia big pieces, and 
served with some fish sauce, potatoes, and also fresh 
ll green peas; or is cut in slices, and broiled, and served 
with parsley butter or tartar sauce; but many kinds of 
fancy and palatable dishes may be made of salmon. 

SALMON A LA BALZAC ^ 
Cut six pieces of salmon heart-shaped, about one-half an 
I inch thick, free from skin and bones. Cover the centre 
•.f of the fillets with a salmon forcemeat. Split a large 
;j| cooked shrimp in two, and place the pieces opposite 
^1 each other on the forcemeat, so as to form a circle, and 
\ I then put a round slice of truffle in the centre. Put these 
I decorated pieces of salmon in a flat buttered saute. pan. 
Season with salt and a pinch of red pepper, and add one 
I gill of fish stock. Cover the pan, and cook slowly on 
if the stove for ten minutes, or until cooked. Dish up on 
a platter. Reduce the liquid, and add one-half a cup of 
If Bechamel Sauce, one ounce of lobster butter, the yolk 
II of one egg, and the juice of one-half a lemon. Put the 
I : sauce around the fish. 



!■ 



i'i 



ii. 



CUTLETS OF SALMON WITH PEAS ^ 
Prepare one cup of thick cream sauce. Have one pound 
of cooked salmon broken into pieces, free from skin and 
bones, and add it to the sauce, and let it simmer for a 
few miautes. Season to taste. Mix the yolks of two 
eggs with two tablespoonfuls of cream, and stir this into 
the fish, and cook for another minute. Remove from 
the fire, and spread on a platter to cool. When cold 
form into cutlets, dip in flour, beaten egg, and bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain well, and put on a 
platter. Surround them with green peas, and put fancy 
paper frills (stabs) in the cutlets. 

36 







» — - ~ns j 

'"I LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK ;' 

I When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 







^.'^rrflrSWI^iSt^-^i^'Wia^ " ' ' sswseti&e^^ii^s^Tf^i^^WlBXftMSilBWMSSl tfi 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



GRENADINS OF SALMON — SHRIMP SAUCE ^ 
Split a piece of salmon, take off the bones, and skin. 
Cut it into round flat pieces, about two and one-half 
iiiches in diameter and one-half an inch thick. Lard 
each piece with five or six strips of fat salt pork, about 
two inches long. Put a few thin slices of carrot and 
onion in a buttered Sat saucepan. Put the pieces of 
fish on top of it, and add a small glass of Sauterne wine 
and a tablespoonful of meat extract. Start it to boil on 
top of the range for two minutes. Then put it in the 
oven for about twelve minutes. Baste it occasionally 
with its own liquid, so as to have the fish nicely glazed 
when cooked. Put a shrimp sauce in the bottom of a 
\l fish platter; put the pieces of fish, free from vegetables, 
• I on top of it. Strain the fish glace, and put a teaspoonful 
; on each grenadin. 

: I CODFISH IN CREAM (BAKED) <^ 
; I Mix some pieces of freshly cooked codfish, free from skin 
I and bones, with some cream sauce. Season with salt 
and pepper. With four large freshly cooked potatoes (hot), 
two otmces of butter, and two eggs mashed thoroughly to- 
gether put a border on a metal baking-dish. Fill the fish 
in the centre of this border. Cover with bread crumbs, a 
little grated Parmesan cheese, and butter, and bake 
for twelve or fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, until 
the whole is nicely browned. 

BUTTERFISH SAUTE COLBERT ^ 
Dip some cleaned butterfish into milk and flour, and fry 
in clarified butter until cooked. Dish up on a platter. 
Surround the fish with slices of lemon, and pour a Sauce 
Colbert over them. 

i RED SNAPPER BAKED ITALIENNE STYLE ^S 
Put six pieces of red snapper, free from skin and bones, 
in a buttered metal baking-dish. Put the head of a 
small fresh mushroom on each piece of fish; season 
with salt and pepper. Add the juice of one-half lemon 

37 




'■■V's^BepiWMw j^'*ta+««» a; 



LOUIS» EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



n 



'('( 



it 



m 



^'^ul'j' M 






LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

and a sherry-glassful of white wine. Cover the fish 
with a buttered paper, and cook for about eight minutes 
in the oven. Remove the paper, and cover the pieces 
of fish with a Sauce Italienne. Sprinkle fine bread 
crumbs over it, and a little melted butter. Put it back | 
in the oven, and cook for ten minutes more, until nicely 
browned. Then sprinkle over it the juice of one-half 
lemon and some chopped parsley. Put the baking-dish 
on a platter with a napkin, and serve. 

EELS SAILOR STYLE (MATELOTTE) ^ 
Skin and clean two eels, and cut them in pieces about 
two and one-half inches long. Heat three tablespoonfuls 
of olive-oil in a saucepan. When very hot add the 
pieces of eels, salt, pepper, two finely chopped shallot 
onions, and a clove of garlic. After frying a few minutes 
sprinkle a scant tablespoonful of fiour over them, and 
let them fry two minutes. Then add one-half pint of 
claret and one gill of water. Cover the saucepan, and 
cook in this sauce for about ten minutes. Then add 
one and one-half dozen of small glazed onions and one 
and one-half dozen of small mushrooms. Let it boil 
for a few minutes more, and then add to the sauce two 
ounces of good butter in small pieces, stirring it gently. 
Dish up in a deep platter, or entree dish. Sprinkle a 
little parsley on top, and surround it with small triangles 
of toast. 



FILLET OF KINGFISH — BON VIVANT ^ 
Split in two three kingfish. Remove the heads, bones f 
and skin. Season the fillets with salt and pepper. Chop || 
fine twelve cooked soft clams (the soft parts only), the 
claw of a lobster, and two cooked mushrooms. Mix 
these ingredients into two tablespoonfuls of fish force- || 
meat. Add one-half a teaspoonful of finely cut chives |! 
and chopped parsley to it, and cover the fillets with this 
preparation. Double them over, and trim evenly. 
II II Dip in cream and flour, and fry slowly in clarified butter, 
until cooked. Put a slice of trufOle on each piece of 
fish, and cover the whole with a Sauce Colbert. 

38 




*=^=— - - ^^ 

i LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



It 




LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

KINGFISH SAUTE WITH FINE HERBS ^ 

' i 

\l Cut off the heads and tails of three kingfish. Split the ; 

,| fish in two, and remove the bones. Dip them in flour, | 

i| and fry in butter. When cooked, dish them up. Add the | 

I juice of a lemon to the butter the fish has been cooked ; 
[E in, and also a little chopped parsley, chives, chervil, and 

v tarragon. Pour this over the fish, and surround it 
with slices of lemon. 

POMPANO — LOBSTER SAUCE ^S 
,1 Split the fish in two, and remove the head and bones. 
Put it in a flat pan, cover it with one-half a pint of fish 
stock, and let it simmer untU cooked. Dish up on a 
platter, and cover with lobster sauce. 



PLANKED SHAD^ 
This is supposed to be a Southern dish, and ordinarily 
was prepared in the following way. After the shad was 
split from the back, and cleaned, it was placed on an 
oiled cedar plank about an inch thick. The fish was 
fastened to the plank by two wires, running diagonally. 
Then the plank was placed in front of an open fire long 
enough to cook the fish. The aroma of the cedar wood 
plank, it is claimed, added to the fiavotur of the fish. 

The present way of preparing the fish differs a little 
from the original recipe. Split the shad in two pieces. 
Remove the spinal bone and the head. Season with 
salt and pepper. Baste the fish over with drawn butter. 
Put it on a hot greased plank, and bake in the oven imtil 
thoroughly cooked. Before serving cover the fish with 
" Maitre d'Hotel " butter, and garnish with potatoes 
and lemon. Sometimes the fish is partly cooked in a | 
flat pan before it is put on the plank. 



BLUEFISH BAKED CREOLE STYLE 4& 

Split the bluefish. Remove the bones, and cut the fish 
into pieces. Put them in a metal baking-dish. Season 
with salt and pepper, the juice of one-half a lemon, and 
a small glass of Sauterne wine. Cover the fish with 

39 



mm 



tMfcWKK fl W Ml— r < i V. -. (X3.'»«;;<«Sft'rJW(«SSi^ffiKS»SIFSrf3'a'a«lfBHI 




Bt^i'BimKi-^ca'JBt.j'i-^'iw 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



\l 






't5 - ^«" 



HADDOCK A LA MORNAY ^ 
Split a fresh haddock in two. Remove the head, fins, 
bones, and skin. Put it on a metal baking-dish, and 
season. Add a little fish stock or white stock to it. 
Cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for 
ten minutes. Prepare a cup of thick cream sauce. Add 
the fish stock from the baking-dish to it, and then stir 
into it four ounces of good butter and two ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Pour the sauce over the fish. 
Sprinkle plenty of grated cheese over it, and also some 
bread crumbs and a little melted butter. Bake in a 
moderate oven until the fish is done, and of a nice golden 
colour. Put the dish on a platter with a folded napkin. 



! 



^ FINNAN HADDIE « EN COQUILLES " <5S ; 

J Parboil a finnan haddie (smoked haddock). Remove the |- 

' bones and skin, and break the fish into pieces. Put the i I 

I fish in a well-buttered cream sauce, just enough sauce ii 

ito mix with the fish. Fill some scallop shells with the 
fish. Sprinkle some bread crumbs over them, and also 
some drawn butter. Bake for about ten minutes to 

!' obtain a golden colour. Serve individually on paper 
doilies, or together on a folded napkin. 
40 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

:■;; 1 

a buttered paper. Cook in the oven for ten or twelve i; I 
minutes. Remove the paper, and cover the whole with |: 
a Sauce Creole. Sprinkle bread crumbs and butter over I ; 
it, and put it back in the oven. Bake until the fish is I 
cooked, which will take ten minutes or more. 



SHEEPSHEAD BOILED — EGG SAUCE ^ 

• I Clean and wash the fish. Put it in a fish boiler and cover 

11 it with warm water. Add salt, a gill of vinegar, one 

\l carrot, an onion, a few peppercorns, and a bay leaf. 

1} When it comes to a boil remove the boiler to a part of 

the stove where it will remain at the boiling point for 

t| about twenty minutes. Dish up on a platter, with 

I folded napkin. Surround with freshly cooked round 

I potatoes. Serve egg sauce separate. 



I LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK ^1 



When Served. 



1! 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






i i 






LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

WHITEBAIT FRIED PLAIN, OR DEVILLED ^ 
Have the whitebait well washed, and free from all the 
weed and grass that is generally mixed with them. 
Drain well and put them in plenty of flour, and mix 
thoroughly so as to have them well floured. Put the whole 
in a wire sieve, and sift off all the flour. Then put them 
in a flne wire frying-basket, and fry them in very hot 
fat. Drain them well, and serve on a napkin with lemon, 
and tartar sauce separate. 

Devilled. Mix one tablespoonful of English mustard 
with Worcestershire sauce to the thickness of an ordinary 
sauce. Add a pinch of Cayenne and a dash of vinegar. 
Put the whitebait through this preparation before putting 
them in the flour. Then prepare and fry as directed 
in the above recipe. 






41 






e"i"*iieyj9f,.'M!*ri«tal..iI'" 4 



! LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

■ h 

I I When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






w 









m 



SHELL FISH 

LOBSTER NEWPORT STYLE <SS 
Cut a cooked lobster in two. Remove the meat from 
: the shell and claws, and cut it into small pieces. Heat 
1 1 a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, add the pieces 
'1 of lobster, and cook for three minutes over a brisk fire. 
^^j Add a dash of sherry wine and later one cup of cream, 
;f| and let it boU. Mix a heaping tablespoonful of flour 
with a small piece of butter and stir in to thicken the 
cream. Season with salt and Cayenne pepper. Remove 
from the fire. When partly cooled fill into the cleaned 
shells, sprinkle over them bread crumbs, grated Par- 
mesan cheese, and butter, and brown them in the oven 
to a golden colour. Serve on folded napkins. 

BAKED LOBSTER A LA GERANT ^ 
i Split a live lobster in two and crack the shells of the 
l\ claws. Remove the creamy part (tomalley) from the 
body for later use. Bake the lobster for about twelve 
minutes. Remove the meat from the claws only. 
' I Chop fine, add a teaspoonful of mixed English mustard, 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, one of melted 
^1 butter, and then a little paprika, chopped chives, salt, 
I and the creamy part of the lobster. Mix well. Spread 
this preparation over the partly cooked lobster, also 
!| bread crumbs and a little butter, and brown in the oven 
I for five or eight minutes, so as to have the lobster thor- 
oughly cooked. Serve with lemon and garnish with 
parsley. 



n 



ll LOBSTER A LA BERCY <^ 

I 
1 1 Chop fine one small onion, two shallots, and two mediimi- 

sized mushrooms, and fry them in olive-oil without 

attaining colour. Cut up a live lobster, the tail into five 

II pieces, the claws into two, and the body lengthwise. 

I Remove the food bag. Retain the creamy part of the 

42 



■■--itiiiT.tjggSMS'KSe^ 



1^ — -— =^ 

1 1 I LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
I 1} When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 






1 ; 









LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

body. Saute the lobster for a few minutes with the 
chopped onion, etc. Season with salt and pepper and 
moisten with a gill of Sauterne wine. Cover the pan 
and cook for fifteen minutes; then remove the pieces 
from the shells and put them in a deep entree dish to 
keep warm. Add one-half cup of Veloute sauce to the 
I reduced liquid of the lobster, also the tomalley, the juice 
of one-half lemon, three otmces of table butter, and 
chopped chives and parsley. Stir weU so the sauce will 
be smooth. Pour over the lobster and serve with toast. 

CLAMS CHATHAM STYLE ^ 
\ Steam twenty-four large Duxbiu-y clams for five minutes 
'I Take the clams out of the shells and remove the hard 

I parts. Strain the juice. With some butter, flour, and a 
part of the clam juice prepare a sauce of ordinary thick- 
ness; season to taste, and add a little chopped parsley 
and chives. Put two clams in each shell, cover them 
It with a tablespoonftd of the sauce, put a very thin slice 
I of bacon over them, and brown in the oven. Serve on 
napkin with lemon. 

1 1 QUAHAUG CLAMS (STUFFED)^ 

i] Steam two dozen large quahaug clams for ten minutes. 

I Then remove them from the shells and strain the broth. 

I Chop the clams fine. Fry a small onion and four fresh 
mushrooms, finely chopped, in butter. When slightly 
coloured add a teaspoonful of flour, enough clam broth 
to form a thick sauce, and let it boil for a few minutes. 
Then add the chopped clams, the yolks of two eggs, some 
chopped parsley, and season to taste. Remove from the 
fire. When partly cooled fill the shells with this prepara- 
tion, sprinkle over it bread crumbs and grated cheese, 
and then put a small pat of butter on each and brown 
in the oven. 

OYSTERS MANHATTAN <^ 
Put some rock salt in a flat pan. Place twelve large 
freshly opened oysters, in the deep shell, on the bed of 

43 



I! !i 



; 



1 



. 'iK«it3™>»(«wis**'»s'*i'as^Wi 



*l.iJMU^tSA7m^^'f^fi^U-^ifC>r^>-^-i:..^-..i§ mm/ ''ti ^^ 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK j 
When Served. 

Guests. ; I 

Remarks, h j 



aH— — ^ 




LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

rock salt so that the juice will not run out of the shell. 
Mix one-quarter of a pound of butter with salt, pepper, 
the juice of one lemon, and one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Put a small piece of this butter on each oyster 
and a thin slice of bacon over it, so as to cover nearly 
the whole oyster. Bake them in the oven imtil the oyster 
is cooked and the bacon is brown and crisp. Serve the ^ | 
oysters in a covered dish with lemon. I 



OYSTERS A LA POULETTE ^ 
Parboil a pint of large oysters in their own liquid. Strain 
the broth and remove the hard part of the oysters. With 
some butter, flour, and the oyster broth prepare a thick 
sauce and let it boil for a few minutes. Add the oysters, 
the yolks of three eggs, mixed with a gill of cream, also 
two ounces of butter and the juice of one-half a lemon. 
Shake in the stew-pan for a few minutes so the yolks of 
the eggs and the butter will mix thoroughly, thus thick- 
ening the sauce. Season with salt and Cayenne pepper. 
Do not let it boil. Serve with toast. 



OYSTERS EN BROCHETTE, OR FLYING ANGELS ^s 
Heat twenty-four small oysters in their own liquid, just 
enough to make the meat solid; then strain off the 
broth. Cut very thin twenty-four strips of bacon, three 
inches long by one inch wide; cover them with English 
mustard mixed with Worcestershire sauce. Then put 
an oyster on each slice and wrap the oyster in this devilled 
bacon. Put six of these oysters on a metal skewer, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, and broil until cooked brown. 
Serve on long, narrow pieces of toast with lemon, and 
pour melted parsley butter over them. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS BROILED ^^ 
Dip cleaned crabs in olive-otl and then in fine cracker 
crumbs. Broil on a moderate fire for about eight or ten 
minutes. Serve them on small pieces of buttered toast, 
and pour a teaspoonful of melted parsley butter over 
each. Surround with lemon. 

44 



m 



J LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

f When Served. 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



I 



i '■ ' .-.' 






LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK | 

SOFT SHELL CRABS WITH BROWNED BUTTER ^ 

Clean soft shell crabs, dip them in milk and flour, and 
fry in clarified butter. Dish them up. Heat two ounces 
of table butter until very brown, remove the pan from 
the fire, add a dash of vinegar, the juice of one-half 
lemon, salt, and pepper, and pour over the crabs and 
then sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

CRAB FLAKES IN CREAM <^ 
Take the meat of some large cooked hard-shell crabs. 
Heat two ounces of butter and add one-half a pound of 
the crab fiakes, toss them over a fire for two minutes, 
then add a small cup of cream, and let it boil. Mix a 
scant tablespoonful of flour with some butter, stirring it 
in to thicken. Let it boil a little longer, then add a 
dash of sherry wine, and season with salt and Cayeime 
pepper. Serve in a covered dish with toast or separately. 

Crab flakes may be obtained ready for use from the 
fish dealer. 



STUFFED CRABS WITH BACON ^ 
Prepare like the above, but add the yolks of two eggs, and 
thicken it a little more. Fill the prepared crab flakes into 
clean crab shells, sprinkle over them bread crumbs and 
grated Parmesan cheese, also a little butter, and bake 
to a golden colour. When serving put a small slice of 
thin, crisp, broiled bacon on each crab, and serve hot. 

CRAB FLAKES MORNAY ^ 
Stir into one cupful of thick cream sauce, while boiling, 
one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese until thoroughly 
melted, then add to it one-half a pound of crab fiakes. ' 
Season with salt and Cayenne pepper and mix well. 
Put it into a metal baking-dish, sprinkle a little more 
grated cheese and butter over it, and bake in a moderate 
oven to a golden colour. 

OYSTER CRABS ASTORIA ^ 
Fry one-half a pint of well-drained oyster crabs for 
three minutes in butter over a brisk fire, then put them in 



45 



mpf'fmmfi^^ms^msfuiffmi 



^ 



jl LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK !| 

When Served. | 

i i Guests. 



Remarks. 



i 



I 



1; 






LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

a stew-pan. Steam three dozen medium-sized Duzbury 
clams till cooked, put the soft part of them with the 
oyster crabs, add one-half a cup of the clam juice to 
them, and let boil. Thicken it a little with flour. Mix 
the yolks of two eggs with one-half a gill of cream, stir 
into it, also, one ounce of butter and a dash of sherry 
11 wine. Mix well tmtil it thickens. Season highly and 
i serve with toast. 

OYSTER CRABS DEVILLED ^ 

I Mix one heaping teaspoonful of English mustard with 

I three tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce. Put one- 

'I half a pint of well-drained oyster crabs into it, and let 

11 it soak for awhile. Take them up without the liquid, 

I ; and put them in flour. Sift off the surplus flotir and fry 

[i in a very hot, deep fat, using a frying-basket. Before 

If serving, season with salt mixed with a pinch of Cayenne. 

I Dish up on folded napkin, and serve brown bread and 

j butter sandwiches cut very thin, separately. 



1 



46 



m 



W*i'^J"»- jv-.;n. - . -n^ 



v»sx mvm m m fmm9m-ri» ^^-''-- ^^^-^-s-mm^mm 





m 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 



Remarks. I) i 



\ 



'4 
■ > 



M 




i»iii9/maiinif*>^^ • 




EGGS 

There are hundreds of ways of preparing egg dishes, 
but the author intends to give only a few select ones, 
suitable for luncheons. 

EGGS A LA BENEDICT <« 
Split two English muffins in two, toast and butter them. 
Have four slices of cooked ham trimmed round and fry 
them slightly in butter. Place the ham on the top of 
the muffins. Have four poached eggs ready, put them 
on the ham, and cover the whole with a Hollandaise 
sauce. 

Thick round slices of toast, three inches in diameter, 
may be substituted for muffins. 

EGGS COQUELICOT <5S 
Butter well four timbale moulds, two by two inches. 
Place the tops of four red cooked pimentos, which form 
little bags, into the timbale moulds, pressing them against 
the sides and bottom. Break a small egg into each and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Stand the moulds in a 
flat pan with water in it and poach them in the oven 
slowly for ten minutes, or until the egg is nearly solid. 
Turn them out on round pieces of toast on a platter and 
surround them with a thin cream sauce. 

EGGS FARCI AU GRATIN <s 
Cut four hard-boiled eggs lengthwise in two and remove 
the yolks. Place the whites on a buttered flat baking-dish. 
Rub the yolks through a sieve, place them in a small 
bowl, and add two tablespoonfuls of cream sauce, two of 
finely chopped cooked ham, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
chopped parsley. Put this filling in a paper comet and 
press it into the cavities of the whites of the eggs, dome- 
shape. Cover the stuffed eggs with cream sauce and 
sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter. 

a » ° m 



I LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK f I 



When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



-3 



r" ' is! 



ii li 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

Bake in a moderate oven for a few minutes so as to 
obtain a nice golden colotxr. 

EGGS A LA MEYERBEER ^ 
Fry four fresh eggs separately. Cut them out with a 
two and one-half inch cutter, leaving only a small rim 
of the white near the yolk. Place them on round pieces 
of toast on a platter; garnish them with four small 
broiled lamb kidneys and eight tiny sausages. Pour 
over them the blood that accumulated in the cavities 
of the kidneys, mixed with a little gravy, and 
serve. 



EGGS A LA MORNAY ^s 
I Boil four eggs for five minutes; plunge them in cold 

water and remove the shells. Cut one end flat and stand 
[j II them upright in a baking dish. Heat a small cup of 

cream sauce and stir into it one ounce of grated Parmesan 

11 1 1 cheese and one ounce of butter. Season well. When 
partly cold cover the eggs with it; sprinkle with more 
|: ; cheese and fresh bread crumbs, also some butter, and 
* ' ■ ■ bake for a few minutes to a light brown colour. 

OMELETTE A LA PAUL ^£ 
Prepare one-half a cup of chicken hash, adding to it 
one small green pepper and two fresh mushrooms cut 
fine, previously cooked in butter. Make an omelette of 
six eggs and fill the centre with this preparation. Ttu:n 
the omelette out on a platter and surround it with Veloute 
Sauce. 

OMELETTE O. C. Y. C. STYLE ^ |; 

Take the soft parts of twelve cooked Duxbury clams and 
put them into a saucepan with two gills of the broth and 
let it boil. Thicken it with some flour and butter; then 
add the meat of one-half a small cooked lobster and 
two hard boiled eggs cut in small pieces. Season well. 
Make an omelette of six eggs; fill this preparation into 
the centre, but reserve some of the sauce. Turn the 

48 



4i:i^Wi7t"^S.-i* ■•■.-.fl^ !■;■ 




r!jiS*s-j -^a^asiilN*^^. ;5>«s-«* 'i 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 1 1 




i 

'I I 



3 r -fl 



» ^ 



«;■■>■' isi-:*«^r:<^WW-J«* - (iti%-W-A\*>*»«§i 



*,'f«<*>*s »**«*»<» '■« ^i^WSlBTOSi^BUda 



— 1 

LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK ' 

I 
omelette out on a platter, pour the remaining sauce 

around the omelette, and garnish it with thin slices of 

crisp bacon. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS ^ 
Have one cup of small cut asparagus tips ready cooked 
and mix them with Veloute Sauce. Season well. 
Scramble eight eggs and place them on a platter so as 
to form a border. Put the prepared asparagus tips in 
the centre and surrotmd them with a small triangle of 
baked puff-paste. 



s 



Iff 



49 






If LO 



"^ s^fOHf&mim 



l8^W.WWV>»*B»sa»t»«**.«H'in>*«W*^»4i«i*i*..>;f*«*tF «T«2nfx-fl H 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



! n 



When Served. 



Guests. 



Remarks. 



; 



: 



i 



i 



SAUCES 

ESPAGNOLE OR SPANISH BROWN SAUCE ^SS 
This sauce is the foundation of sauces, and most of the 
brown sauces are made of it. If properly made it can 
be kept in the ice-box for a week. In a copper saucepan 
(with a thick bottom) melt a pound of butter, add a pound 
of flour, and cook slowly together, stirring most of the 
time, for about twenty-five minutes, so as to obtain a 
brown colour. This is called a "roux." When partly 
cooled o£f, moisten with four quarts of brown stock, 
stirring well to obtain a smooth sauce. Add a pint of 
puree of tomatoes, and let cook slowly for three hours 
(set it on the side of the range so that it will only boil 
partially) , skimming off the fat occasionally ; then strain 
through a fine sieve into a bowl. Stu: frequently until 
nearly cold, and then put away for further use. 

DEMI GLACE OR HALF GLACE ^ 
Prepare a small " mirpoix " of vegetables, adding a few 
small pieces of veal bones and mushroom stems. When 
nicely browned, add a glass of sherry and one of Sauterne 
wine, and boil it down to a glace. Then add a quart of 
I Espagnole Sauce, and dilute with a quart of brown 
stock. Boil slowly for an hour or more, skimming off 
the grease occasionally. When reduced to about half 
the quantity, strain through a fine sieve and set aside 
for further use. This sauce should be just thick enough 
to adhere to the meats like a glace. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE OR DRESSING ^ 
Put the yolks of four eggs into a bowl. Add a teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, one-half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch 
of Cayenne pepper, and a few dashes of vinegar. Work 
this together with a wire whisk or a wooden spoon, and 
then add gradually one pint of olive-oil, potu-ing it in 
very slowly from the beginning. If the dressing gets too 

so 




:r-.i«B«a£«a^ffl««® ' •-'-: -JWiBi^wwtwa— — imiiiih ■''fwyi^M«nfajt»i»B(->g.8w^;asgi ■■ 



^i»fi«!W9*J«!^ ^/WS''''-y>i~^' 



ZM 






nr 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



|l if 



'^f 






> ''4 
i in 



Bt ^' '^~I^ 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

thick add a few dashes of vinegar, but keep working it 
all the time vigorously, so as to obtain a thick sauce. 
Lastly add the juice of a lemon. Keep in a cool place. 

TARTAR SAUCE <^ 
Add to one pint of thick mayonnaise dressing one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of chopped 
pickles, one of chopped capers, and a teaspoonful of very 
finely chopped onions. 

BORDELAISE SAUCE ^ 
Fry two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped shallot onions 
and a clove of crushed garlic in oil, moisten with a glass 
of Bordeaux wine, let boil to half its quantity, then add a 
pint of Espagnole Sauce and a cup of gravy and boil 
together for twenty minutes, skimming off the fat. 
When ready to use, add a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, one ounce of table butter, the juice of one-half 
a lemon, and twelve slices of marrow of beef, previously 
plunged in boiling water for two minutes and well drained. 
This sauce is served with steaks, tenderloin of beef, or 
Fillet Minion. 

BIGARAD SAUCED 
Cut the thin peel of an orange into a fine " Julienne," 
parboil in water for five minutes, then drain well, and 
put into a small saucepan with a little sherry wine and 
the juice of an orange. Add a pinch of Cayenne pepper 
and one pint of Demi Glace. Boil for a few minutes 
I more, then add the juice of one-half a lemon and one 

ounce of table butter. 

REMOULADE SAUCE 4& 

To a pint of Mayonnaise Sauce add the yolks of fotu: 
hard-boiled eggs finely chopped, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley and chives, and a teaspoonful of French mustard. 

SAUCE COLBERT <S 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of meat extract in a saucepan, 
and when hot stir into it three or four ounces of butter, 
using a wu-e whisk. Then add the juice of a lemon, two 

51 







GiHWUiMilHiiljIWiiigi'.j''^ h-'-i^'-'i -i \'\."r- .".r-w'S'^.j 4 



ni 



II 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



11 



n 



IBMSSi—— ■■■■■■ '««''^ <»immmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmSi!mimmSS^ 






LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

tablespoonfuls of sherry wine, and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Do not let it boil, or it will curdle. 
May be served with broiled meats or fish. 

CREOLE SAUCED 
Cut one large green pepper, one onion, two fresh mush- 
rooms, and one red pepper into strips about an inch long. 
Fry the green pepper, onion, and mushrooms in one 
tablespoonful of olive-oil and one of butter. Add two 
cloves of crushed garlic to it, then the red pepper (pi- 
mento), and lastly three peeled tomatoes cut in small 
pieces. Moisten the whole with a wineglassful of sherry 
wine, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Add one pint 
of Espagnole Sauce. Cook for a few minutes longer and 
finish it with the juice of one-half a lemon and a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. 

CUMBERLAND SAUCED 
This sauce is served with venison or similar game, and 
also with small tenderloin steak, " Marinee." Cut two 
ounces of blanched and peeled almonds in strips, add two 
ounces of French cherries cut in four, one ounce citron 
cut in strips, and two ounces of sultana raisins. Put 
them in a saucepan with a gill of Madeira wine, cover 
the pan and stew slowly for ten minutes, then add to it 
a pint and a half of port wine sauce, and boil for five 
minutes. Before serving, add the juice of half an orange. 

DEVILLED SAUCED 
Reduce two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, with one table- 
spoonful of chopped shallot onions and a clove of garlic, 
to a glace. Add half a pint of Espagnole Sauce and half 
a cup of gravy, and let it boil for ten minutes, then add 
a teaspoonful of mustard mixed with Worcestershire 
sauce, a pinch of Cayenne, a dash of claret, and an ounce 
of butter. • Strain through a sieve. 

FRESH MUSHROOM SAUCE -^a 
Peel and slice one-half a pound of fresh mushrooms. 
Fry them in two ounces of butter for a few minutes, then 



Il LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
ij When Served. 

Guests. 



RemariES. i] ~| 



i". 



i 

i 



» IB 



w 



.■.ftS^v«,-^y)»i; --4* - f, ?i-iS'iiM»t'*Wfr'«si(ltM((mi'- ' 



!9 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

moisten with a gill of sherry wine, cover the saucepan 
and let simmer for ten minutes, and then add one pint 
of brown Sauce. Boil for five minutes more, skim well, 
season with salt and Cayenne pepper, and lastly add a 
tablespoonful of freshly chopped parsley. 

SAUCE ITALIENNE^ 
Chop finely a medium-sized onion, four shallot onions, and 
a clove of garlic. Fry in two tablespoonfuls of olive-oil. 
Add two ounces of chopped mushrooms, moisten with a 
glass of white wine, boil for a few minutes, then add one | ; 
pint of Espagnole Sauce and one-half a pint brown stock 
or gravy, and boil for twenty minutes. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, the juice of one-half a lemon, 
and season with salt, pepper, and Cayeime. May be used 
with broiled meat or fish au gratin, Italian style. 

PORT WINE SAUCE ^ 
Put one-half a tumbler of currant jelly with one-half 
a pint' of port wine into a saucepan, let it boil, stirring 
occasionally until the jelly is melted. Then add a pint 
of brown sauce, a pinch of Cayenne pepper, and the juice 
of a lemon. Reduce to the thickness wanted, and strain 
through a fine sieve. This sauce is served with venison, 
moose, or similar game. 

PIQUANTE SAUCED 
A medium-sized onion and three sour pickles should be 
chopped fine. Put them in a saucepan with a wineglassful 
of vinegar, and boil until the liquid is nearly reduced. 
Then add a pint of brown sauce, boil for a few minutes, 
and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one of tarra- 
gon leaves, an ounce of butter, the juice of one-half a 
lemon and a tablespoonful of finely chopped capers, if 
desired. 

PERIGUEUX SAUCE <^ 
Chop three truflles (not too fine) . Put them in a saucepan 
with a gill of Madeira wine, and let it boil for about ten 
minutes, so that the liquid is nearly reduced; add a 

S3 



?■,#;■*,"!!,■ ;;■ vf>S,;'S6B.i« 



iV *«,--i^!^<l»»i-H(t*'. 



if 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK f I 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks, i 



n 






. .'fflif^;^!«i*s't&i*-'3«^» 



|iL .'SSi:rs'.&--i^^^'^_:'(!&m»i&ii.*'^'m^^ 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

pint of brown sauce, some of the juice which conies with 
the truffles, a tablespoonful of meat extract, and half 
a cup of gravy or brown stock. Boil for ten minutes 
more, skim off the fat, season to taste, and serve sepa- 
rately or over the meat. 

TOMATO SAUCE ^ 
Put into a saucepan an onion, a carrot, four ounces of 
lean ham cut in small pieces, a few whole peppercorns, 
one bay leaf, two cloves, and a few sprigs of parsley. 
Fry colourless. Moisten with a quart of veal stock, add 
five pounds of tomatoes cut in pieces, and boil together 
for an hour. Mix three ounces of corn-starch with a 
cup of water, and stir into the sauce; let it boil for 
twenty minutes more. Season with salt, pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and then rub it through a fine 
sieve. If a rich tomato sauce is required, reduce it to 
the thickness wanted. A little tomato ketchup added to 
the sauce will improve it. 

ROBERT SAUCE ^ 
Chop a medium-sized onion and four shallot onions fine, 
fry slightly in butter, and then moisten with a glass of 
Sauterne wine and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. When 
partly boiled down, add half a pint of Espagnole Sauce 
and one-half a cup of consomme, or brown stock. Boil 
for ten minutes and add one heaping teaspoonful of 
French mustard, one ounce of butter, a pinch of Cayenne 
pepper, and the juice of one-half a lemon. Stir well so 
the mustard will mix into it. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE 4SS 

Put one quart of Veloute Sauce and a pint of chicken 
stock into a saucepan and boil for about twenty minutes, 
stirring frequently while reducing. Mix the yolks of 
three eggs with one-half a cup of cream and stir into the 
boiling sauce. Remove from the fire, add two oimces 
of butter, the juice of a lemon, and strain through a fine 
sieve. 

S4 



m 



^^^|t||^4^t£>Hl«': 



1! 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



\l When Served. 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



* I 



ii 









■ -^^'f «.'-^-^«a»»*e«3B'«»MB«a'-' -*,*^ " ■^-^.-■?->:,v.-'""- ■•'rt'«^«"''««''^-**'*« ■*'■ 



V 

LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



VELOUTE SAUCE ^ 
Melt one-half a pound of butter in a saucepan, add one- 
half a pound of flour, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes, 
without attaining colour. Moisten this " roux " with 
two quarts of white stock. Stir well with a wire whisk 
to obtain a smooth sauce. Add an onion, a stalk of 
celery, and a few white mushroom stems. Let it boil 
slowly for an hour. Skim off the fat (or grease) and then 
strain through a fine sieve, and put away for further 
use. 

CREAM SAUCE 455 
Prepare a " roux " of flour and butter, as for Veloute 
Sauce. When the " roux " is cooled off, add two quarts 
of boiling milk and cream mixed, and stir well to obtain 
a smooth sauce. Add an onion with three cloves, let 
boil for twenty minutes, then add four ounces of table 
butter, season with salt, Cayenne, and a little nutmeg, 
and strain through a fine sieve. This sauce should be 
boiled slowly, as it clings easily to the bottom of the 
saucepan, and is apt to get a burned taste. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE 453 
Put one pint of Veloute Sauce and one pint of cream 
sauce in a saucepan with one-half of cream. Boil for 
fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of essence of mushroom and two ounces of 
butter, and remove from the fire. This is a very rich 
sauce and may be served with boiled fowl, turkey, fish, 
or vegetables, such as celery, artichokes, etc. 

BEARNAISE SAUCE ^ 
Chop very fine four small shallot onions, put them in a 
saucepan vrith four tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar and 
boil until the liquid is nearly reduced, then add the yolks 
of three eggs. Have half a pound of butter melted, add 
a small quantity of it to the eggs and onions, stir it with 
a wire whisk until it thickens, and then gradually add the 
rest of the butter, stirring it continually. When thick 

55 




m 



,V'.M*fe'v\»'%iail» 



r 



^..«wtv»Sii'4i*;))^n*-,riJ'iV,^S*W»f«W>f)««^Mtfta( 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



»' 



n 



at izrzjs 






SI 



is 

i> SI 



I 



! 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

and smooth, add the juice of a lemon, one .tablespoonful 
of finely chopped tarragon leaves, parsley, and a pinch 
of Cayeime pepper. 

BERCY SAUCE ^ 
Fry two heaping tablespoonfuls of finely chopped shallot 
onions in butter for two minutes, then add one-half a 
pint of Sauterne wine. Boil together until the wme is 
reduced to half, then add one-half a pint of fish sauce, 
boil for a few minutes, and remove from the brisk fire 
to the side of the stove. Add one-half a pound of butter, in 
small quantities, stirring it constantly. Do not let it 
boil. Lastly, add a teaspoonful of chives and one of 
chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of white 
and red pepper, and salt if necessary. 

CARDINAL SAUCE WITH LOBSTER ^ j 

I' 
Cut the claws of a cooked lobster in small dice, saute i> 

them slightly in butter, add some sherry vnne and a \\ 

pint of Veloute Sauce. Cook for a few minutes. Mix the 

yolks of two eggs with some cream, and stir into the 

sauce, also two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of 

chopped lobster coral. 



CAPER SAUCED . 

Cream two ounces of butter, add one and one-half || 
I ounces of flour and one-half a pint of water, stir on the 

fire till it comes to a boil. Work in two ounces of butter 'j ' 

in small quantities, season, add the juice of one-half a i 

lemon, and, lastly, two tablespoonfuls of capers. > 



EGG SAUCE ^ 

Melt two ounces of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, then a pint of boiling water or light white stock. 
Cook for ten minutes, then add two hard boiled eggs 
cut in small pieces, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 

S6 



1 



wtwwwrrawwBwnijiiwMi^ . 



ii**iw/-««i^»*arty;Mi ' ■*iri4^» naii 



I LOUIS* EVE 

f When Served. 



EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK ^ 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



I' 



li 






; 



— ^H 



— — . - - - . ■■ M*.,.i •- ...■..•'4(;s,'-^««^iWjRsti«»^(*6'v) 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

i FISH SAUCED 

I This sauce may be used for several kinds of fish, with 
I but little variation. Melt four ounces of butter in a 
I saucepan, add three ounces of fiour, and cook slowly 

I for ten minutes, so that it will not attain colour. Moisten 
with a quart of fish stock, and .stir well so as to obtain 
a smooth sauce. Boil for twenty minutes, season to 
I taste, add two ounces of butter, and strain. 

i HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 4& 
Melt one-half a pound of butter. Put into a saucepan 
the yolks of three eggs with the juice of a lemon and a 
pinch of red pepper; add a small quantity of the melted 
butter, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Then add 
gradually the remainder of the butter, stirring con- 
stantly with a wire whisk. If it becomes too thick, add 
a few drops of warm water, which will prevent it from 
curdling. If this sauce is used for asparagus, cauli- 
fiower, or similar vegetables, a few tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream will improve it, giving the sauce a sweet 
taste. 

OYSTER SAUCE ^S 

Poach two dozen small oysters in their own liquid. 
Strain the liquid through a cloth and mix it with one 
pint of fish stock. Heat two ounces of butter in a sauce- 
pan, add two ounces of fiour, stir well, then add the 
boiling fish and oyster broth, and boil for ten minutes. 
Mix the yolks of two eggs with a quarter of a cup of 
cream, and stir into the broth ; add the juice of one-half 
a lemon, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and two ounces of butter, 
and strain. Add the oysters and some chopped parsley. 

POULETTE SAUCE ^ 
Add to a pint of boiling Veloute Sauce the yolks of three 
eggs, mixed with half a cup of cream. Stir well. Before 
using, add two ounces of butter and the juice of one-half 
a lemon. 



^^^^----^^^^■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ie:«iMd»^^a-%ijfc«M«i*£i»w>«>u^'» 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 






w M 




II 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



SHRIMP SAUCE ^ 
Skin four ounces of cooked shrimps, cut the tails in small 
pieces, saute them in butter for two minutes, add one 
small glass Sauterne wine, and let it simmer for five 
minutes. Then add one pint of fish sauce, the yolks of 
two eggs mixed with a little cream, two otmces of butter, 
the juice of one-half a lemon, chopped parsley, and a 
tablespoonful of lobster butter. Serve separate, or pour 
over the fish. 

TRIANON SAUCE 4SS 

Make the sauce like Hollandaise Sauce, but add three 
or fotu- tablespoonfuls of Madeira wine while beating 
up the sauce. This must be thicker than the Hollandaise 
Sauce. The yolks of four eggs instead of three should 
be used to obtain a more substantial sauce. It may be 
served with various kinds of meat, such as chops, tour- 
nedos, or sweetbreads. 

VIN BLANC OR WHITE WINE SAUCE ^ 
This sauce is prepared in various ways and goes with 
1 1 fillet of sole, halibut, or almost any white meat fish. 
Take the liquid in which the fillets of fish have been 
cooked, and add a small glass of Sauterne wine. When 
boiling, add a heaping tablespoonful of flour mixed with 
butter, to thicken this fish stock, then add gradually 
four ounces of butter, stirring constantly. Add a pinch 
of Cayenne pepper, a little salt, if necessary, and the 
juice of a lemon. The yolks of one or two eggs may be 
added. They will improve the colour of the sauce, but I 



58 



t| 



may be omitted. ) < 






9^.-^in: <>^#'sd-jv^.. i ■!- m'"'-J' ■ ';''>*'*B?^£-*«»«««.='*iSJ« 



-m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. , 

! 



11 



»" ^ 







m 




ENTREES OF POULTRY 

la order to make fancy entrees it is almost always 
necessary to use chicken forcemeat either for decorating 
or filling. Here is a plain recipe which any one can 
make. A mortar with a pestle and a wire sieve is re- 
quired. 



CHICKEN FORCEMEAT <^ 
Remove the meat from the breast of a young fowl, 
weighing about four pounds; use also the meat of the 
second joint of the legs of the chicken. Have it free from 
bone, skin, and fat. Chop the meat very fine or grind 
it through the meat chopper, and then pound it to a 
pulp in the mortar. When fine and pasty, add the whites 
of three eggs, one at a time; season with salt, pepper, 
Cayenne, and nutmeg. Put it on the wire sieve and rub 
it through with a wooden potato masher. Place on ice 
in a bowl for an hour. Then work the forcemeat vigor- 
ously with a wooden spoon, adding small quantities of 
thick cream to it until one-half a pint or more is absorbed. 
Put a small lump of it in boiling water and poach for 
a few minutes; Lf it is too solid add more cream; if too 
delicate (soft) add another white of egg. Keep in a cool 
place until ready to use. 



SUPREME OR BREAST OF CHICKEN WITH 
TRUFFLES ^ 

Raise the breast and wings from a three-pound chicken 
with the wing bone attached; remove the skin and the 
epidermis. Take the minion fillet from the breast, and 
insert into it five slices of truffles cut Uke thin cock's 
combs. Cut a gash the whole length of the breast and 
fill with chicken forcemeat mixed with a little puree of 
goose liver. Put the minion fillet on top of the filled 

S9 




iMF wimw iBii tB M — l awn w*-*"^' ■ mmm mmmmm m miiM 



w. 



1^ j B jf 



;i«!^,''««*t*SM^*s»g^B»f|»i)Silr«i*iBIB 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 




i^WiK - J' -v***re»iit«ii 



a! 



w 



W-ieJwj(*-^k<K;ant^nW«-l(y,-5W/'»s*%k)ffi«S«Kftt*wKW««''!*J^^ " > "'^''J* *'•'' ^t^3»;«n*'!HiSE^t>'/ft'' 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

breast and decorate with forcemeat, arranged like a 
chain of pearls, on each side of the minion fillet. Lay 
the supremes in a well-buttered flat saute-pan, season 
with salt and pepper and add a little sherry wine and 
one-half a gill of chicken stock; cover with a buttered 
paper and cook for ten or twelve minutes in a moderate 
oven. When cooked dish up the supremes on pieces 
of toast cut heart-shape. Add some demi-glace to the 
liquid in the saute-pan, also twelve slices of trufSes, some 
truffle juice, and a dash of sherry wine. Potir the sauce 
around the supremes. Stick paper frills on the wing 
bones and serve. 

BREAST OF CHICKEN A LA SAM WARD <^ 
Remove the breast of a tender three-pound chicken. 
Remove the skin. Season the breast with salt and 
pepper, dip in cream and flour, and then fry slowly for 
about twelve minutes in a small quantity of clarified 
butter. Cut six fresh mushrooms in thick slices, boil 
in one-half a cup of cream for ten minutes or more, 
then mix a heaping teaspoonful of flour with some 
butter and stir into the cream to thicken it; let it boil 
another five minutes, and then season with salt, pepper, 
and Cayenne. Then add a small piece of butter and 
one tablespoonful of sherry wine. Put this sauce in the 
bottom of the dish and the fried breast on top; surround 
with fancy pieces of toast. 

I BREAST OF CHICKEN BOMBAY STYLE <53 
Remove the breast of a young chicken from the bone 
but leave the skin on. Season with salt and pepper, 
dip in oil, and broil until nearly cooked. Mix a table- 
spoonful of English mustard and a pinch of Cayenne 
pepper with a little Worcestershire sauce so as to obtain 
a paste. Spread this over the breast as thick as the 
blade of a knife, over which sprinkle cracker crumbs 
and a little melted butter and cook for five minutes more 
in the oven. Dish up the breast on pieces of toast cut 

60 



ir 



■WW P ' ■ " ■■' ".*' 



m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

I 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



! 'If. 






I. I 









II 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



11 



CHICKEN A LA STANLEY -^ 

Melt two ounces of butter in a flat stew-pan, add two 

: large sliced onions. Cut a three-pound chicken in eight 

I pieces and put it on top of the onions. Season with 

>| salt and pepper. Put the cover on the pan and let it 

simmer slowly imtil the onions start to take colour. 

;| Then moisten with a pint of white stock, let it boil for 

1 twenty minutes, add a cup of thick cream, and boil for 

; I ten minutes more. Take the pieces of chicken out of the 

I liquid and dish them up in a deep entree dish. Add to 

11 the liquid a heaping tablespoonful of flour, mixed with 

some butter, boil for a few minutes, and strain the whole 
1 1 through a fine sieve. Put the onions through also. 

Heat the sauce again and add a small piece of table 

butter and a pinch of Cayenne; pour over the chicken. 

Surround it with small pieces of fried bananas. 
Cut each banana slantwise in four pieces, dip them in 

flour, and fry in butter. 




CHICKEN A LA CREOLE ^ 

Ingredients needed are a young chicken weighing about 

three pounds, cut in eight pieces; that is, the legs cut 

in two pieces each, two wings, and the centre of the 

breast cut crosswise in two. Cut in small cubes one 

Jj onion, one green pepper, three large fresh mushrooms, 
two fresh peeled tomatoes. One-half a cupful of raw 

I washed rice, garlic, and one pint brown stock are also 

; needed. 

, I First fry the chicken in olive-oil ; when nicely browned 
add the onion, mushroom, green peppers, and a clove 
of chopped garlic. Fry for two minutes more, then add 
the rice, moisten with the stock, add the tomatoes, and 
salt. Cover the pan and let it simmer for half an hour 
in the oven. By this time all the liquid should be ab 

6i 



; 



liiSS»S>iACIi ■ 



i 



heart-shape, put a piece of broiled bacon on top of each, i i 
a large spoonful of fresh boiled rice on each side, and a 
small quantity of currie sauce around the chicken. 




I LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK ! 

I 1 1' 

I When Served. 



Guests. 

Remarks. - 



\ 



ii 






if LO 



■viiaftuKWii:«j»«>:- ' 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



IS 



': I Borbed by the rice and the chicken cooked. Place the 
pieces of chicken in the centre of a platter and surround 
with the rice. Pour a little tomato sauce over the chicken, 
and on this sprinkle a little chopped parsley. 



CAPON A LA CHEVALIERE ^ 
This is a simplified recipe taken from the original. 

Singe and clean a small capon, cut off the legs, and 
raise the breast off the bone without taking the skin 
off. Lard with fine strips of salt pork. Bone the legs. 
Make a stuffing with half a pound of sausage meat, a cup 
of fresh bread crumbs, one egg, a tablespoonful of 
chopped truffles, salt, pepper, nutmeg, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley and chives. Spread this forcemeat over 
the boneless legs, roll them up, and sew them up so 
as to obtain the shape of a tiny ham. Put the legs and 
the breast in a fiat saucepan with a " mirpoiz," cook 
them slowly in the oven for half an hour, add a glass of 
sherry wine, and one-half a pint of brown stock, and 
glace them, basting them with the liquid until the 
meat is of a nice golden colour, and the liquid is re- 
duced to about one-half a gill. When ready to serve, 
cut the breast slantwise, into eight slices. Dish up 
on a heart-shaped thick piece of toast. Cut the legs 
the same way and place near the breast. Garnish 
with a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, small slices of 
sweetbread, and chicken forcemeat balls (made of 
chicken farce). Strain over the meat the glace in which 
the chicken was cooked and surround it with fieu- 
rons. 

Fleurons are half-moon shaped pieces of baked puff- 
paste. 

SQUAB EN CASSEROLE <5S 
Clean, singe, and dress three squabs, put them hi an 
earthen casserole with a small piece of butter, salt 
and pepper them, and roast in the oven for about twelve 
minutes, so as to obtain a nice golden colour. Add one 

62 



m 



wmmm:^*?.**u-/ --tjaa^ats^iin mmuiiimmvwt'^!»i>(stS9i 




m 



f LOUIS' 



^ 



EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



3 
It 



'■I 



J - ■ 

11 ,i - 



I 



i 



I 

\ 

1 



LOUIS' £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

; small onion, two fresh mushrooms, and two ounces of | 

lean bacon, all cut in small cubes, and cook together for | 
i| 1 1 another ten minutes in the casserole. Sprinkle a 
I if teaspoonful of flour over them, and moisten with a 
;^ ; cup of gravy or brown stock and three tablespoonfuls 

of sherry wine; put the cover on and let it simmer for 
I' i| ten minutes more. When the squabs are cooked the 

sauce should have boiled down so that there is just 

enough for the diners. 

Tie a napkin around the casserole and serve. 



it 

u 



DUCKLING A LA PORTUGAISE ^ 

:| Roast a duckling; when partly cooled off, cut in pieces. 

If Cut up the carcass in small pieces, fry with a small 

" mirpoix," add a gill of claret wine, the juice of an 

I orange, and a pint of Espagnole Sauce. Cook for fifteen 

11 minutes. Then strain into a saucepan, add the pieces of 

duckling, and heat well. Chop the peel of a quarter 

of an orange fine. Cut the heart of the orange in quarters 

and heat it in a little sherry wine. When ready to serve, 

1 1 put the pieces of duckling in a deep entree dish, surround 

1 1 with the quarters of orange, pour over the sauce, and at 

11 last sprinkle the chopped peel of the orange over the 

; whole. 

GOOSE A LA CHIPOLATA ^ 

If you have a part of a roast goose (say half) left from 

a previous meal, cut it in pieces. Chop up the carcass 

and fry it, with pieces of carrots, onions, and spices. 

t Moisten it with a gill of Madeira wine and a pint of 

] brown sauce. Boil for fifteen minutes. Strain the sauce 

II into a saucepan and heat the pieces of goose in it. Fry 

II ten small sausages each one and one-half inches long. 

Glace twelve small onions in butter and brown stock. 

Cook twelve whole, skinned chestnuts in one-half a 

pint of consomme until tender and until the liquid is 

entirely boiled down. Fry ten small fresh mushroom 

heads. Place the pieces of goose in a deep entree dish, 

63 



'V: 



■^"i«©*«!SllMIWa - . ^'tear "^«a**'^js«*«sK*»awss: 




■l.=«fiSti**3Wriav 



11 LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

'I When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. | 



m 



I 



! ! 



JBT"" ~1B 






* 



it 



II II 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

put the four prepared garnishings in " bouquets " around 
it, and pour the sauce over the meat. Sprinkle chopped 
parsley on top, and surround it with eight small heart- 
shaped slices of bread previously fried in butter. 



GUINEA HEN A LA SOUBISE ^ 
Singe, clean, and dress a guinea hen, cover it with a 
large thin slice of fat salt pork, and roast it in a moderate 
oven, colourless, for ten minutes. Slice two large onions 
and fry them with two ounces of butter in a saucepan 
without attaining colour. Put the partly roasted guinea 
hen with them. Moisten it with a pint of chicken stock, 
put the cover on the pan, and cook in the oven for twenty 
minutes or until done. Take the hen out and add to the 
now cooked onions a heaping tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed with an ounce of butter, also one-half a cup of 
thick cream. Boil for five minutes more, then rub 
through a sieve. Cut the guinea hen in pieces, heat 
the sauce well, season to taste, and pour over the 
fowl. 

BREAST OF GUINEA HEN SOUVERAINE <^ 
Raise the fillets or breast of a guinea hen from the 
breast bone, remove the skin, and cover with a layer 
of chicken forcemeat (thickness of the blade of a knife). 
Cover one-third of the breast with finely chopped truffles, 
one-third with chopped ham, and one-third with skinned 
and chopped pistachio nuts. Put the breast in a well- 
buttered flat saute pan, put a buttered paper on top, add 
two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine and three of gravy 
or rich stock. Put the pan in a moderate oven and cook 
slowly for fifteen minutes, basting them over occasionally. 
Cut two slices of toast heart-shaped, and place the breast 
on top of the toast. Add one gill of demi-glace to the 
liquid left in the saute pan, give it one boil, and pour 
over the breast. Put a paper frill on the wing bone and 
serve. A garnishing of green peas or asparagus tips 
may be served with it. 

64 




i«i 'I Wfimrrtiiiirrfrrirri nrinriiiii i xii»en(^sMiieF»r;f>«;,iK)^^^¥t"il 



m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. i 

Remarks, l 



\ 



:; y 



i i 



Ht— . ^ a 




^ 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

TIMBALES OF CHICKEN ^ 
Butter well a few timbale moulds about two inches high 
by one and one-half to two inches wide, and decorate 
them with pieces of trufGLes, cut in fancy shapes, such as 
diamonds, crescents, and stars. Fill three-quarters 
of the mould with chicken forcemeat, then put a ball of 
chicken croquette preparation in the centre, being careful 
that it shall not touch the sides or bottom of the mould. 
Put some more forcemeat on top so as to have the mould 
full. Stand in a saucepan of boiling water, which will 
reach half-way up the moulds. Put the cover on and 
poach them slowly for about fifteen minutes in the oven, 
to get solid. Take them out and let them rest for two 
minutes, to settle; turn them on to a platter carefully 
and then remove the moulds. Pour some Veloute Sauce 
around them, or put some fresh mushrooms in cream 
in the centre. 



65 



igt 1^ 



iK'S'ltHltiV'i'-.l -i-J ■'■j^«Sfe**B*kW!>^'^)>| 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK |' 

When Served. 

Guests. ij 

Remarks. |j 



i 



^= ^ 




ENTREES OF GAME 

BRAISED QUAIL, CELERY SAUCE ^ 
Clean and prepare three quails for roasting. Put a thin 
slice of salt fat pork on each. Roast them for five minutes, 
then put into a saucepan with one-half a pint of white 
stock and a cup of white tender celery, cut in small 
pieces. Add a little salt, put on the cover, and cook for 
twenty-five minutes. Put the quails on a dish. Thicken 
the liquid with a little flotu: mixed with butter, add one- 
foturth of a cup of cream and a pinch of Cayenne pepper; 
cook for a few minutes more and pour over the quails. 
Surround them with a few heart-shaped pieces of 
toast. 

PARTRIDGE WITH SAVOY CABBAGE ^ 

Cut a Savoy cabbage in four pieces, remove the outside 
leaves and stalk, parboil in salt water for twenty min- 
utes, drain well, and chop coarsely. Roast a partridge 
for ten minutes. Put it into a saucepan with the cab- 
bage, add four slices of bacon, a young carrot, an onion, 
and a pint of white stock; season with salt and pepper. 
Put on the cover, and cook the whole in a hot oven 
for half an hour. Take out the partridge, remove the 
legs, and cut the breast lengthwise in four pieces. Put 
in an entree dish, and surround with the braised cab- 
bage. Cut the carrot in small pieces, also the slices of 
bacon, and use them as a garnishing for the cabbage. 
Pour over the bird a little brown sauce with sherry 
wine in it. 

SALMI OF GROUSE WITH TRUFFLES ^ 
Clean and roast a grouse for twenty minutes, so as to 
have it a little rare. Remove the legs, and cut the breast 
in four pieces. Chop the carcass in small pieces and fry 



66 



m 



m 







w 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



i 



H 



& 



a 



J 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

I with a " mirpoix " for a few minutes ; add a glass of 
I claret wine, and let it boil to half the quantity. Then 
add one-half a pint of brown sauce, cook for a few 
minutes more, and strain through a fine sieve. Heat the 
sauce, add the pieces of grouse, twelve slices of truffles, 
: and a tablespoonful of the truffle juice, and let it simmer 
for a few minutes. Then dish it up, pour the truffle sauce 
over it, and surround with heart-shaped pieces of bread, 
previously fried in butter. 



VENISON CHOPS, PORT WINE SAUCE 4S |i 

Cut as many chops from a saddle of venison as re- || 

quired. Season with salt and pepper, dip in oil, and |j 

broil imtil done rare. Dish up on a platter and pour | 

port wine sauce over it. Serve with griddled sweet |i 

potatoes. * I 



GRENADINS OF VENISON A LA CUMBERLAND <5S 
Cut small chops from the loin part of a saddle of 
venison, remove all the bones and skin. Lard these 
pieces with very thin strips of salt pork. Season with 
salt and pepper, " saute " them in hot butter for a few 
minutes to keep them rare; dish them up in the shape 
of a crown, and fill the centre of the crown with small 
round croquettes made of sweet potatoes. Pour Sauce 
Cumberland over the grenadins, and serve. 




CIVET OF RABBITS 

Skin and wash a rabbit, cut in pieces, season with salt '■ 
and pepper. Fry in butter to a golden colour, then |j 
sprinkle over them two heaping tablespoonfuls of fiour I: 
and cook for a few minutes more to brown the flour. ,; I 
Add one-half a pint of claret wine and a pint of brown ' ; 
stock. Stir it well to obtain a smooth sauce. Add a 
bunch of parsley, a bay leaf, three cloves, and a clove 
of garlic, all tied together with a string (called a bouquet, 
which is taken out before serving), also ten very small 
onions previously fried in butter, twelve mushroom heads, 



■ 






LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 




When Served. 




Guests. 




Remarks. 




] 



» * 



i,; 







LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

and twelve small pieces of bacon cut in cubes, par- 
boiled and fried. Let all simmer together for an hour, 
or until the meat is tender. Serve in a deep entree 
dish and surround with heart-shaped croutons fried in 
I butter. 



h 



68 



m 




LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



>OK I 



i 







m 




ENTREES OF LAMB AND MUTTON 

LAMB CHOPS A LA FAVORITE ^£ 
Broil six weU-trimmed lamb chops. Put them in a dish. 
Cover each chop with a thin slice of boef tongue, cut 
heart-shaped and heated in some stock or gravy. On 
top of this put a teaspoonful of very thick Bearnaise 
Sauce and a round slice of truffle on the Bearnaise. 
These three colours make a pretty effect. Put a bouquet 
of mixed vegetables (macedoine) in the centre, stick a 
paper frill on the bone of each chop, and pour some 
gravy in the bottom of the dish. 

NOISETTE OF LAMB A LA ROBINSON ^S 

Cut four chops from a loin of lamb; trim well, leaving 

only a small piece of fat at the end of each. Broil, and 

I dish each up on a round piece of toast. Slice five or six 

I chicken livers, also two good-sized fresh mushrooms, 

I season with salt and pepper, and fry together in butter 

for a few minutes. While frying, add a teaspoonful of 

finely chopped onions, then two tablespoonfuls of sherry 

wine, and a small cup of brown sauce. Cook for four 

minutes, add the juice of one-half a lemon, some chopped 

parsley, and pour over the noisettes. 

MINIONS OF LAMB, ANDALOUSE ^ 
Cut from the best part of a leg of lamb small steaks, and 
trim in round pieces (called minions). Saute in butter 
until cooked, dish them up on round pieces of toast, and 
cover them with a Sauce Trianon. Put a slice of truffle 
on each. Have some cooked spaghetti cut in pieces an 
11 inch and a half long, cook for a few minutes in a very 
1 1 thick tomato sauce, add a little grated Parmesan cheese, 
season well, and surround the' minions with this gar- 
[ nishing. 
j 69 

w "~w 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



I When Served. 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



' * 






I 



»^ « 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

MUTTON CHOPS DEVILLED ENGLISH STYLE <^ 
Broil four well-trinuned mutton chops until nearly done. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of mustard and a pinch of Cayenne 
with enough Worcestershire sauce to obtain a paste. 
Cover the chops with this preparation on both sides, dip 
them in fine bread crumbs, then in melted butter, and 
brown in the oven. Put the chops on top of a layer of 
mashed potatoes in the platter, add two thin slices of 
broiled bacon on each chop. Pour a little devilled sauce 
over the whole. 



LOIN OF MUTTON WITH TURNIPS ^ 
Trim and bone a loin of mutton, make a roll of it, tying 
it up with string. Roast for twenty minutes; have it 
nicely coloured. Pour off the grease, sprinkle a table- 
spoonful of flour over the loin and brown it a little in the 
pan. Then add one pint of brown stock or light gravy 
and two cupfuls of young turnips (shape of a walnut, 
previously parboiled and sauted in butter). Cover the 
pan and cook for one-half an hour. Take the loin out, 
slice in pieces, and skim the fat off the sauce. Arrange 
the turnips on each side of the loin and pour the sauce 
over the meat. 



I I 



m 



70 



m 



*=^ —- - ■ ^ "^ 

LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



» « 




ENTREES OF VEAL 

SWEETBREAD BRAISED WITH ASPARAGUS 
TIPS^ 
Trim two pairs of sweetbreads, parboil them in water for 
a few miautes, cool them in cold water, and lard with 
thin strips of salt pork. Butter a flat saute-pan, put a 
few slices of onions and carrots in the bottom of the pan, 
also two slices of lean ham, a bay leaf, and peppercorns. 
Put the sweetbreads on top, put on the cover, and cook 
on the stove tmtil the vegetables take colour. Drain off 
the butter. Add to the sweetbreads a small glass of 
sherry wine, a cup of brown stock, and a gill of brown 
sauce. Cook slowly in the oven for twenty-five minutes, 
basting frequently with the liquid so as to have them 
nicely glaced. Dish up on round pieces of toast, strain 
the sauce over it, and garnish with asparagus tips. 
Cover the asparagus tips with a little Hollandaise Sauce. 

SWEETBREAD POMPADOUR <5S 
First select four small sweetbreads for this dish, or cut 
large ones in two pieces. Trim, parboil, lard, and cook 
just like previous recipe. 

Second, cut one parboiled sweetbread into small cubes, 
also two fresh mushrooms, one truffle, and one-founh 
of a breast of a cooked fowl. Put this into a saucepan 
with a piece of butter half the size of an egg; toss it 
over a brisk fire for two minutes, then add one-half a 
cup of cream and let it cook for ten minutes. Now 
thicken with a little flour mixed with butter; add one 
tablespoonful of Madeira wine and season to taste. Have 
four French artichokes, about two inches in diameter; cut 
the bottom part of them with a two inch scalloped cutter. 
When ready to serve put the prepared fiUing in chma 
cases or small metal saucepans, about half ftill, then the 



71 




S 



m 



•(WlSifc*»4.(Ur*»*!^Mv(''.-'K*-(Ai*:'->i-*C'^ ■.'£--■-.'.-■? 



*"*"*lfle«W«llt!Mll«£t«'W«^9!toi««K!WiHB^^ — - Hi^iTWeMv^WaK-f*?! 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK f 
When Served. | 

Guests. 

Remarks. \ 



• 



]! 



I'- 



ll 












LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



r 



.J 



(' a 



'4 



heated artichoke-bottoms on top, and lastly the glaced 
sweetbreads. Pour over it a little of the gravy in which 
the sweetbreads were cooked. 



s 



SWEETBREAD EUGENIE ^ I 

. Metal or fireproof dishes with glass covers are required | 

1 for this recipe. Parboil and cook four small sweetbreads | '\ 
I as for Sweetbread Braised, but have them less cooked. 

Butter four of the above-mentioned dishes, put a small f ]| 
, round piece of crisp toast in each, place eight small heads • 

I (peeled) of fresh mushrooms on the toast, leaving the f; ^f 
I centre free. Season with salt and pepper, and pour a 

* quarter of a cup of cream over the mushrooms. Place |; ;i 

the partly cooked sweetbreads in the centre, cover, and '. 

cook slowly, on top of the range, for twelve or fifteen | 

minutes without removing the cover. Serve while < 

boiling hot, placing the dish on a dinner plate on which I 

a small napkin has been placed. \ 



, ,, PAPRIKA " SCHNITZEL » OF VEAL <5S 

Sf ':! Fry a finely cut onion in butter. When nicely browned 

I \ \ I add a heaping teaspoonful of paprika and a tablespoonful 

II ll of flour; cook for two minutes and then moisten with a 

cup of brown stock. Add a tablespoonful of capers, the 

II 1 1 juice of one-half a lemon, and a small piece of the rind; 

I boil for five minutes and then strain. Add a little meat 

extract if desired. Cut four slices of veal from the loin 

I or leg, one-half an inch thick, free from bones and 

gristle, season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, and fry 

1 1 slowly in butter to a golden colour. Dish up on a platter, 

pour the prepared paprika sauce over it and garnish 

with boiled rice, well drained. 



VEAL CHOPS LARDED AND GLACED ^ 
Lard with small strips of salt pork four well-trimmed 
veal chops, rib preferred. Season with salt and pepper 
and fry on both sides in butter. Add a few thin slices 
of carrots and onions. When nicely browned drain off 

72 






?; ^m^m^m^m^m^t 



I LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
I When Served. 



Guests. 

Remarks. 









■1 



m 



LOUIS' £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

the butter, add a small glass of Sauterne wine to the 
veal, and a cup of brown stock or light gravy. Have the 
larded side up and cook for fifteen minutes in the oven, 
basting it over with the liquid frequently to obtain a nice 
glaced surface. Dish them up and strain the remaining 
gravy over them. 



u 



I 



CALF'S BRAIN WITH BROWNED BUTTER ^ 
Remove the fine skin from the calf's brain and rinse the 
latter in water. Boil the brain in water, adding salt, the 
juice of a lemon, a few slices of carrots and one-half a 
bay leaf. Boil for ten minutes. Take out carefully 
with a skimmer, split in two and put it on a dish. Heat 
two ounces of butter tmtil it turns dark brown, then add 
a dash of tarragon vinegar and pour over the brain. 
Sprinkle chopped parsley over it. 

CALF'S HEAD A LA POULETTE ^ 
Have a scalded and cleaned calf's head cut in two; 
remove the brain and tongue. Wash the head well and 
soak for a few hours in water, then parboil and wash 
off the scum. Put it into a saucepan with water into 
which a handful of fiour has been mixed, and add the 
juice of two lemons and a vegetable garnishing. Boil 
until tender, cut in pieces, dish up in a deep entree dish, 
and pour a Sauce Poulette over it; then add the cooked 
brain and the calf's tongue sliced. Surround with small 
pieces of toast. 



73 



gr— — ^— ^ 



f I Pi 

I LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

I I When Served. 
; Guests. 

Remarks. 



li 



r^ — —^ 



i 



IF 

i 



'J I 



ENTREES OF BEEF 

TENDERLOIN STEAK MIRABEAU^ 
Broil two tenderloin steaks, each about one and one-half 
inches thick; keep them rare. Have some salt anchovies 
cut in long strips, put them lengthwise and crosswise 
over the steaks ; place a piece of an olive, cut in the shape 
of a ring, in each little square formed by the anchovies. 
Put the steaks on a platter, and keep them warm. Heat 
I ; half a pint of brown sauce, add a little sherry wine, 

the juice of one-half a lemon, and one ounce of butter. 
Stir until the butter is melted, and then pour over the 
tenderloin steaks. 

TOURNEDOS OF FILLET OF BEEF CHERON <^ 
Cut four small steaks, about an inch thick, from a well- 
trimmed tenderloin. Season with salt and pepper, dip 
I in oil, and broil. Have ready four French artichokes, 

I the bottoms filled with mixed vegetables (Macedoine), 

l[ i| also some Bearnaise Sauce. When ready to serve put 
I the tournedos on round pieces of toast, cover the meat 

I ! |i I with the Bearnaise Sauce, place a slice of truffle on each, 
and then put the four filled artichokes opposite the 
tournedos. Put a few tablespoonfuls of gravy in the 
platter. 



MINION FILLET OF BEEF " LOUIS " ^ 
Broil four small round tenderloins, each an inch thick 
is and two and one-half inches in diameter. Put them on 

1 1 round pieces of toast which have been previously covered || 

1 1 with thin slices of goose liver pate. Brush melted meat i 

ij extract over the minion fillets. Have twelve pieces of ^ 

red pimento and twelve of green peppers cut in diamond |! 

fj shape, the green ones to be cooked in butter. Place I 

■ three of each on the fillets, alternating so as to forma • 

74 ' 




^=^'t^i^E^^<^vi^--fl 






m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN»S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks, f 



11 






- LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK | 



,'« 






LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

star. Place a small cooked mushroom head on the star 
and pour a light Bearnaise " Tomatee " around the 
minions. 

To make Bearnaise " Tomatee," add two tablespoonfuls 
of thick puree of tomatoes to one-half a cup of Bearnaise 
Sauce. 



P 



MEDAILLON OF BEEF A LA BERTRAND^ 
Cut four small round tenderloin steaks about an inch 
thick, and trim so as to have them about two and one- 
half inches in diameter. Broil rare. Put them on round 
pieces of toast of the same size. Put a round slice of 
eggplant fried in butter on top of the medaiUons, a large 
I slice of parboiled marrow on beef on the eggplant, and 
a slice of trufl9te on the marrow. Cover the whole with 
a Sauce Bordelaise. 

BEEF TONGUE BRAISED A LA ROMAINE ^ 
Dip a fresh beef tongue in boiling water for one-half a 
minute, then scrape off the skin with a knife. Parboil 
the tongue in water for an hour. Put the parboiled 
tongue in a saucepan with some butter, brown it slightly, 
add an onion and a carrot sliced, and a few herbs aromatic. 
Moisten it with a gill of white wine, a quart of brown 
stock, and a cup of brown sauce; add two tomatoes 
cut in pieces. Put the cover on and let the tongue simmer 
in the oven for two hours, turning it occasionally. After 
that time the liquid should be reduced to the consistency 
of an ordinary brown sauce. Take the tongue out and 
slice it. Put on a platter as if it were whole. Strain 
the sauce, take off the fat. Have ready three table- 
spoonfuls of seedless raisins, three of Sultana raisins, 
and three of blanched and skinned almonds cut in strips, 
parboiled in a gill of Marsala wine. Add this to the 
sauce and pour over the tongue. 



75 




LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 



\ 






m 



V, 



i 



1 



MISCELLANEOUS ENTREES 

VOL-AU-VENT A LA TOULOUSE ^ 
Have ready and hot a vol-au-vent made of pufiE-paste 
holding about a quart of filling. Cut in small slices one 
pair of parboiled sweetbreads, the breast of one-half a 
cooked fowl, eight fresh peeled mushrooms, and saute 
them in butter for a few minutes. Then moisten them 
with a small glass of sherry wine, cook for ten minutes, 
and add one pint of Veloute Sauce; let it simmer for 
some time; then add two truffles sliced, twenty-four 
I chicken forcemeat balls, and twelve cocks' combs. 
I Mix half a cup of cream with the yolks of two eggs, stir 
I into the ragout, also two ounces of fresh butter; shake 
i the whole well in the saucepan so the yolks of the eggs 
i will thicken the sauce. Then fill it into the vol-au- 
I vent. Vol-au-vent may be bought at any bakers. 

! Cocks' combs ready for use may be bought in small 
glass jars at any first-class grocery. 

TIMBALE PARISIENNE^ 
Cook a potmd of French macaroni in water tmtil soft. 
It is more solid than the Italian macaroni and better 
answers the purpose. Drain without rinsing. Cut into 
small pieces about one-third of an inch long. Butter a 
quart timbale mould very thick' and garnish with a few 
details of truffles in the bottom and on the sides. Line 
the whole mould with the pieces of macaroni, placing 
them in such a way that the opening of one end is against 
the sides of the mould, so as to make it look like a honey- 
comb when it is turned out. Line the inside with chicken 
forcemeat to hold the macaroni in place ; fill the centre 
with a Toulouse as in the previous recipe, cover the whole 
with chicken farce, and steam in a covered saucepan 
for thirty minutes. When cooked let the timbale rest 



t 



9P*ip '■ '■'.';'*E"«et?*eF*^»''4iH 



M 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK } 

When Served. I 

Guests. 

'i 

Remarks. I 



I 

I 



at ^ 




m 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

for a few minutes, then turn it out on a platter very 
carefully. Serve a Sauce Allemand around it. 

PIGEON PIE ^5* 
Cut three young pigeons (squabs) each in two pieces. 
Saute with six thin slices of tenderloin in hot butter 
for three minutes to have them slightly browned. 
Arrange them in a pie-dish, alternating with slices of lean 
bacon. Cut two hard-boiled eggs in pieces and sprinkle 
them over it, also a small finely chopped onion and some 
chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper, and poiu- 
over it a pint of brown sauce and Ught gravy mixed. 
Cover the whole with a cover of puff-paste and bake in 
a moderate oven for half an hour. 

MOUSSE OF VIRGINIA HAM <5a 
Pound to a pulp half a pound of cooked Virginia hkm, 
free from gristle and fat, add two whole eggs and one 
gill of cold cream sauce. Rub the whole through a sieve, 
place in a bowl, and add to it one-third as much chicken 
forcemeat. Mix well together with a wooden spoon, 
working it vigorously and adding half a cup of thick 
cream. Have some small tin moulds well buttered and 
sprinkled with finely chopped red ham. Fill the prepa- 
ration into the moulds, steam in a covered saucepan, turn 
out carefully on a platter, and surround them with a 
demi-glace flavoured with Madeira wine. 

MUSHROOM UNDER GLASS 4^ 
Butter well a round metal baking-dish, and put in it a 
crisp rotmd piece of toast. Place ten medium-sized 
mushrooms on top and add a tablespoonful of maitre 
d'hotel butter. Season with salt and pepper and a pinch 
of Cayenne; add a dash of sherry wine and half a cup 
of cream to each dish. Put the glass cover on and cook 
for fifteen or twenty minutes on top of the range without 
removing the cover. Place the dish on a dinner plate with 
a napkin on it and serve very hot. 

77 



Jii 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



1 






m 



m 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



II 11 



CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN ^ 
I Cut into small dice the meat of a cooked fowl, free from 
I skin and gristle. Chop fine a small can of mushrooms, 
two truffles, and a small onion. Fry the onion in two 
\ ounces of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, moisten 
I it with a pint of chicken stock in which the fowl was 
cooked, then add some of the juice of the canned mush- 
j rooms and cook together to obtain a thick sauce. Put 
I in the chicken, mushrooms, and truffle, and let it simmer 
for a few minutes; then add the yolks of three eggs 
I mixed with one-half a gill of cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
' and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and after two 
minutes' more cooking remove from the fire and spread 
on a large platter to cool off. When cold form croquettes 1 1 
: of it, pyramid shape, roll in flour, egg, and bread-crumbs, I 
and fry iu deep fat to a nice golden colour. Serve on a 
napkin, or with some garnishing of vegetables like peas |^ 
or asparagus tips. | 

This recipe should make from twelve to fifteen cro- i| 
quettes. |[ 

CROQUETTES OF SWEETBREAD <53 
Cook three pairs of parboiled sweetbreads in chicken stock I Ij 
for twenty-five minutes, take them out of the liquid to j 
cool off; then cut them into small dice and prepare the 
same way as for the previous recipe, using the stock 
in which the sweetbreads were cooked for the sauce. : 
Fresh mushrooms may be used in place of canned. ; 
Make the croquettes cutlet shape or a flat oblong. 

EPIGRAMMES OF SWEETBREAD ^^ 
Split in two, two pairs of medium-sized parboiled 
sweetbreads, so as to obtain eight pieces; trim them to 
a flat oblong shape. Fry in butter on both sides for five 
minutes. Cool them off. Chop finely three medium- Ij 
sized fresh mushrooms, previously cooked, also a truffle. \[ 
Put them in one pint of Allemande Sauce, add two table- l| 
spoonfuls of sherry wine, and reduce the sauce on the iff 
fire to more than ordinary thickness. When cold wrap 

78 







^ -. . — ws t 

I I LOUIS» EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK iM 

1 When Served. 

Guests. H 

I . 
Remarks, p 






. '■K^^^'^-^^^'^tStfn^'i'^"^^ 



iff 
l\ 
It 



■ ■ ' f 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

it around the pieces of sweetbread, dip them in flour, 
egg, and bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain well. 
Serve with mushroom sauce or a garnishing of vegetables. 



TERRAPIN MARYLAND <S 

Dip a live diamond-back terrapin in boiling water and 

> I II with a coarse towel remove the fine skin from the limbs, 

head, and neck. Put the terrapin in a saucepan with 

water and salt and boil until tender; about thirty or 

forty minutes is required for a young one. After it is 

cold, break the shell, remove all the meat, and separate 

the gall from the liver. Cut the meat into pieces, also the 

liver, and free the terrapin eggs from the dark skin 

surrounding them. Put all into a saucepan with a glass 

I of sherry wine and one-half a pint of strong chicken 

V stock; garnish with a small onion, one-half a small 

carrot, and a bouquet of parsley. Boil for fifteen minutes 

1 1 and then remove the garnishing. Add to the now reduced 

I liquid a gill of cream sauce. Mix the yolks of three eggs 

1 1 with a gill of cream, stir into the sauce and let it thicken, 

' add two ounces of butter, a little more sherry wine, and 

; a dash of brandy. Season with salt and Cayenne and 

add the juice of one-half a lemon. Then remove from 

^1 the fire. Be careful that the sauce does not curdle. 

Serve in a covered deep entree dish or in a blazer. Serve 

toast separate. 

TURTLE MEAT OR FINS A LA NEWBURG ^ 
Put about ten pieces of cooked green turtle meat or fins 
(each two inches square) in a saucepan with some of the 
liquid. Boil and add one-half a cup of cream and a small 
glass of Madeira wine. Stir in the yolks of three eggs 
mixed with a gill of thick cream, shaking the saucepan 
all the time, so it will mix well and thicken the sauce. 
Add one ounce of butter and a dash of brandy. Season 
with salt and Cayenne pepper and serve in a covered 
entree dish. Serve toast separate. 



79 



w 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



! 
( 



m 



. 



MfiiLm mmmtMmm 



li 
il 



ROAST, JOINTS OR GROSSES PIECES 

ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF, ENGLISH STYLES 
II Take the best part of the sirloin with the tenderloin in it. 
Tie a string around it, so that the flank will partly cover r,i 
^> £ I the fillet. Roast in a moderate oven until cooked rare. 1 1 
I If It will take about two hours or more to cook. When I 
more than half -cooked put into the same pan raw peeled ^ 
|j II potatoes, the size of a large egg, and roast them with 
I the meat. 



li ! 



6 8 

i3 



BRAISED RUMP OF BEEF WITH MACARONI ^^ 
In a heavy copper saucepan roast a piece of rump of 
beef weighing six or seven pounds until nicely colovired 



80 



't? ^tttmmn.'^i^^sfm'mm" 



I 



RIB OF BEEF AND TIP OF THE SIRLOIN ^ | 

A piece of three or four ribs of beef, or two or three ribs 1 

of the loin of beef, called the tip, may be obtained ready | 

trimmed to roast from the butcher. Cook in the same i 

way as for the previous recipe. Serve with horseradish I 

sauce. I 

To make the horseradish sauce, grate a root of peeled | 

fresh horseradish, put into a small bowl, add a pinch ; | 

of salt and a pinch of sugar and enough thick cream to | 

obtain a thick sauce. Serve separate in a sauce boat. I 



TENDERLOIN OF BEEF A LA PORTUGAISE ^^ 
Trim and lard with small strips of fat pork a fillet or 
tenderloin of beef. Roast for about forty minutes with 
slices of carrots and onions, a few small pieces of lean 
ham, and herbs and butter. Baste it over occasionally 
while roasting. Dish up on a platter ; drain off the butter 
from the roasting-pan, add a glass of sherry wine, one- 
half a cup of gravy, and one-half a cup of brown sauce. 
Let it come to a boil and strain over the tenderloin. 
Surround with stuffed tomatoes. 



■^M'ti^^miiHt''^iimKtrt^^^ammvfmmmiiiimmitm 




ss 


k — "— -m 


■l 


LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 


■ 




When Served. 






Guests. 






Remarks. V 






'' 



jlk— ^ —M 



T 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



II 



on all sides, adding a carrot and an onion, herbs, a bay 
leaf and a parsley bouquet, and t^o tomatoes cut up. 
Then moisten with a pint of Sauterne wine and one 
quart of stock and one cup of brown sauce. Put on the 
cover, which should close hermetically, put the saucepan 
in the oven, and let the meat cook slowly for two hours, 
tturning occasionally. Take the meat out and slice; 
strain the sauce and skim off all the fat, and then pour 
over the sliced rump. Garnish with macaroni with 
cream sauce. 

BRISKET OF CORNED BEEF WITH VEGE- 
TABLES ^ 

A piece of fancy brisket of corned or saltpetred beef, 
say five or six potmds, should be cooked in plenty of 
water until tender, with two carrots, two onions, one- 
half a head of cabbage, two turnips, and two stalks of 
celery. Dish up the beef on a platter, cut the vegetables 
coarsely, and put around the beef. Serve horseradish 
with it. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON <^ 
Roast a well-trimmed saddle of mutton from fifty to 
sixty miniutes. Slice lengthwise and serve with currant 
jelly and gravy. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON, CAPER SAUCE ^ 
It takes about two hotu-s to boil a leg of mutton. Put 
salt and vegetable garnishing in the water. Serve mashed 
turnips with it, and caper sauce separate. 



ROAST HINDQUARTER OF SPRING LAMB^ 
Cover the loin part with slices of lamb fat, so that this 
part will not be too well done when the hindquarter is 
cooked. Serve mint sauce separate. 



ROAST RACK OF LAMB ^ 
Use the ribs of the lamb only and serve with mint 

gi 




vssiin^iSfSmemim 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 




m 



M 



m 



i 



r 

LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

I ROAST TURKEY STUFFED ^ 

I Stuff the turkey with any of the many dressings known. 
Cover the breast with thin slices of salt pork, which will 
prevent the meat of the breast getting too dry. Serve 
cranberry sauce with it. 

CAPON A LA PENNINGTON^ 

Cook a quart of peeled chestnuts in chicken stock with 
three finely chopped and fried shallot onions. Pound 
this to a pulp, add one-fourth of a pound of grated fat 
salt pork and three finely chopped truffles. Stuff the 
capon with the dressing while it is hot, and let it rest 
overnight so the flavour will penetrate into the meat. 

ROAST GOOSE, GOOSEBERRY SAUCE ^ 
Stuff a young goose with any dressing desired. Chestnut 
or apple dressing is very palatable. Serve gooseberry sauce 
with it. 

Green gooseberries are cooked with sugar and very 
little water. Serve cold. 

ROAST YOUNG DUCKLING ^ 
It requures about an hour to roast a young duckling; 
may be stuffed or plain roast. Serve apple sauce with 
it. 

ROAST CHICKEN, GIBLET SAUCE ^ 
Roast the chicken the ordinary way. Prepare a thick 
gravy. Boil the gizzard, heart, and liver in water with 
salt and an onion. When well cooked, chop fine, and 
add to the thick gravy. 

ROAST SADDLE OF VENISON ^ 
Roast the saddle as it is, or take off the skin over the 
meat and lard with strips of fat salt pork, but keep it 
rare. Serve ciurant jelly with it, together with some 
gravy made in the pan in which the saddle was 
cooked. 

82 




epHrf^^^ffl^jWii:;-! -s«s 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



w 



J. When Served. 

Guests. 



Remarks. 






: i I 







fA - - ■' - 

LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

ROAST HAM WITH SPINACH^ 
Boil a soaked ham until tender, remove the skin, sprinkle 
sugar over it, and brown in the oven. Serve a puree of 
spinach with it. 

ROAST LOIN OF VEAL WITH KIDNEY <^ 
Bone a loin of veal, season with salt and pepper, and make 
a roll in such a manner that the veal kidney cut lengthwise 
in two will be in the centre of the roll. Tie up with a 
string. Roast with a " mirpoiz " of vegetables and pre- 
pare a gravy in the pan in which the loin was roasted. 






k 



83 



f^ 



I LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

i 
I When Served. 

I Guests. 

Remarks. \{ 



at ^ ' w 



i«*W*-#**nt>B'*' 



(f GAME 

ii 

Wild ducks should be cooked rare. Very few people 
like them well done. It takes from fifteen to twenty 
minutes' cooking for the large ducks, according to size. 
After they are cleaned a few pieces of celery put inside 
the ducks will improve the flavour of the meat. Fried 
hominy and currant jelly are generally served with all 
of them. When the breast has been carved, the carcass | 
should be put in a meat press and all the blood squeezed 
out of it and served as gravy. The legs are seldom used. 
Wild ducks may be split and broiled and served on toast 
instead of roasted. 

CANVASBACK DUCK<^ 

REDHEAD DUCK<S 

RUDDY OR BUTTERBALL DUCK^^ 
These three kinds are considered the best. They feed 
on wild celery and similar plants, and have no fishy 
flavour. The ruddy duck is much smaller than the others 
and requires only ten minutes' cooking. 

MALLARD DUCK<^ 
BLACKHEAD DUCK<^ 
WIDGEON ^ 
TEAL DUCK ^ 
BRANT DUCK<^ 

These are all to be cooked rare, and served with fried 
hominy and currant or barberry jelly. 



PLOVERS ^S 
The following are several varieties of these birds, but 
all are treated the same way, roasted or broiled, and 
served on toast with some fresh watercress: English 

84 







- f*Wfe*yi^M»51V*a#^lj-;? 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



'I 



n 






II II 



! 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

Plovers, Golden Plovers, Upland Plovers, Beetlehead 
Plovers, Yellow Leg Plovers. 

WOODCOCK ROAST OR BROILED ON CANAPES ^ 
Clean the woodcock, remove the gizzard, chop the in- 
testines and the same quantity of chicken liver fine, 
add chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Spread it on toast 
and bake in a moderate oven for two minutes. Cook 
the woodcock about seven minutes in a moderate oven, 
then place on the canape, pouring a very little gravy 
over it. 



SNIPE ^ 



II 



I This bird may be treated the same as woodcock. 



i DOE BIRDS ^ 
: I Roast or broiled. 

1 RICE BIRDS ^ 

:t REED BIRDS <5S 
SNOW BIRDS ^ 
Put three or four on a metal skewer, alternating them 
with small, thin slices of fat salt pork or bacon. Roast 
quickly and serve on toast. 

QUAIL ^ 
PARTRIDGE ^ 
PHEASANT ^ 
AH are cooked well done and served with bread sauce. 



..< 



it 



85 



M 



**f >°= '■*»*WM*«WS*l«^W*f^i«^8Bi 



i 



" LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK | 

j ■ 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. ! 



\ 



il 



# «s 



VEGETABLES 

That may be served as entrees or separate courses 

CELERY AU JUS ^ 
Clean and peel four stalks of celery, each about four 
inches long. Split each in two or four pieces, cook in 
water until tender, and then drain. Heat one-half a 
cup of gravy and one-half a cup of brown sauce, add 
the juice of one-half a lemon and an ounce of butter, 
season with salt and pepper. Put the celery into this 
; ' sauce and let it simmer for ten minutes. Arrange the 
i I pieces nicely in a dish and pour the sauce over them. 

[; CELERY VELOUTE ^ 
I 
I Prepare the celery as for previous recipe, but put it into 

, a pint of veloute sauce instead of brown sauce. I 

. ' ARTICHOKES BOILED, HOLLANDAISE SAUCE ^ \ \ 
ll Trim the leaves and stalks from the bottoms of some 
,: French artichokes, cut off also the points of the leaves 
' on the pointed ends. Cook in salt water with the juice i 

!of two lemons tmtil tender ; it will take about an hour. 
Drain off the water and serve on folded napkin. Serve I 

i| I Hollandaise sauce separate. • 

ARTICHOKE FARCI A LA BARIGOULE ^S \ 



Boil some artichokes, prepared as in previous recipe, 
for half an hour in salt water, but cut one-third of the 
pointed ends off. Drain well; empty out the inside 
(called the choke), fill the empty space as for stuffed 
tomatoes, adding to the filling some chopped, cooked 
sweetbreads. Place a thin roimd piece of fat salt pork 
on top of the fiilling. Put the artichokes in a buttered 
saucepan, and add a little claret wine and one-half a 
pint of brown stock. Put on the cover, and cook for 

86 



■ 1 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



1^ 



I 



1^ 



: 

; i 






;i 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

- half an hour in a moderate oven. Place the artichokes 
1 1 1 1 on a platter, boil down the stock in which they were 
I > 1 1 cooked to one-half a gill, add a little brown sauce and 
one ounce of butter. Pour over the artichokes. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER ^ 
Remove the hard parts of a cauliflower, and divide the 
I ll rest into small flowerets; cook in salt water until tender, 
|i 1 1 drain well. Arrange them in a baking-dish, sprinkle 
grated Parmesan cheese over them, and then cover with 
a thick cream sauce. Sprinkle a few fresh bread crumbs 
and plenty of grated Parmesan cheese over it; then pour 
over all some butter and bake to a nice golden colotu'. 

CEPES PROVENCALS 

Slice some cepes into thick pieces, and fry in olive-oil 
with a chopped shallot onion and a crushed clove of 
garlic. Add a little Sauterne wine and some tomato 
sauce. Put into a deep dish, sprinkle chopped parsley 
over it, and surround with small pieces of toast. 



MUSHROOMS BOURGEOISE S 

'I Peel twelve fresh mushrooms, leaving on part of the 
: I stems ; arrange in a baking-dish, with stems up. Sprinkle 
i| salt and pepper over them, also the juice of one-half a 
I lemon and two ounces of melted butter. Bake in a 
moderate oven for fifteen minutes, and serve in the same 
! I dish. Toast separate. 



STUFFED TOMATOES S 
Chop fine one onion, one green pepper, four fresh mush- 
rooms, and four ounces of cooked ham. Fry the first 
three articles in butter until cooked, add the ham and 
two peeled tomatoes chopped fine. Boil for a few minutes, 
then add one-half a cup of fresh bread crumbs, the yolks 
of three eggs, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
chives, and some nutmeg. Cut the tops off six medium- 
sized tomatoes and scoop out part of the inside; fill the 
tomatoes with this preparation, sprinkle bread crumbs 

87 



M 



B.*»H*MtiaaiK:^j»j»»w«ms«iniisMK«H,jirj<t-ia 




•r^\ir-eih^<r^jfg)s^v»ms*ii^ -, 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



;: 






'ii 



N" 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

and butter on top, and bake for twelve minutes. Serve ] ' 
with some tomato sauce in the dish. 

i ] 
STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS <5S 1; 

Cut the tops off six medium-sized green peppers and |j 
remove the stalks and seeds; parboil for five minutes |i 
and drain. Fill the peppers with the same preparation | 
as for tomatoes. Sprinkle bread crumbs and butter on 
top; bake for twelve or fifteen minutes. Put some i 
demi-glace in the bottom of the dish and place the peppers \ : 
on top. 



TOMATOES AND EGGPLANT A LA GRECQUE ^ 

■ Take eight slices of an eggplant, trim them round to three 

1 1 inches in diameter, dip in milk and flotu:, and fry in butter 

on both sides for five minutes. Cut in two four peeled 

tomatoes crosswise, arrange in a baking-dish, alternating 

y with slices of the fried eggplant. Season with salt and 

{ pepper, strew with chopped parsley and chives, sprinkle 

with plenty of bread crumbs and melted butter and very 

little grated Parmesan cheese. Bake for fifteen minutes 

I in the oven. 



V. 

i 


i 


li 


1 
1 


h 


■ ! 

li 



ii 



H ■• 



FRIED OYSTER PLANT ^S 

Clean a bunch of oyster plant or salsify. Split them 
11 1 1 lengthwise and cut into pieces three inches long. Boil 
I i [ I tmtil tender in salted water in which a tablespoonf ul of 
flour and the juice of a lemon has been mixed. Drain 
well, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley; 
dip in a frying batter and fry in deep fat to a golden 
colour. Pile up the pieces on a folded napkin and surround 
with fried parsley. 

To make the frying batter, put one-half a pound of 
sifted flour into a bowl, add a teaspoonful of baking 
powder, two tablespoonfuls of oil, a pinch of salt, one 
egg, and the yolk of one egg. Dilute with three gills of Ej I 
tepid water to obtain a batter thick enough to cover the 
articles intended for frying. 

88 



I LOUIS' EVE 

I When Served. 



EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



^''ri 



Guests. 

Remarks. 



II 



i 

3;. 






JBi ^ ^l I Ill m^m^^,....^,..,^ ^ l i ll l ll.l H — i— — llllllllll M m^^>.*mtl^^^^^ 



!» ^m 



i 



HOW DIFFERENT SALADS ARE PREPARED 
AND SERVED 

First of all the materials should be secured fresh, and 
then they must be well cleaned and the water removed 
as much as possible. The salads should be made im- 
mediately before the meal and kept cool imtil wanted. 
( I A garlic flavour is healthful, and if there is no objection 
a slight rubbing of the salad bowl with a clove of garlic 
will improve the flavour of the salad. Chopped fresh 
tarragon, chervils, or chives also help to give a fine taste 
to the salads, and the yolk of an egg will give a good 
body to them. 
To make salad dressing good oil and vinegar are 
I necessary; olive oil and red-wine vinegar are to be 
preferred. If you caimot get red wine vinegar, a wine- 
glassful of red wine added to a quart of dressing which 
was made of white wine or cider vinegar will answer 
the purpose. If you have no vinegar, the juice of two 
lemons added to one-balf a glass of red wine may be 
substituted. If the oil gets cloudy add a teaspoonful 
of salt to a quart, and it will clear within twenty-four 
hours. 

HOME-MADE FRENCH DRESSING 4^ 
To make one quart, take a teaspoonfxil of salt, one-half 
a teaspoonful of white pepper, one-quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of English mustard, one-quarter of a teaspoonful 
of paprika, one-third of a quart of vinegar, shake well, 
and make up the balance of the quart with olive-oil. 
This dressing well corked will keep for ever. Shake the 
bottle before using. 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



I 
i 



j 






lawwiTumwr*^ 






SALADS 

ASPARAGUS SALAD ^ 

Cut the tender parts of asparagus into pieces of equal 

11 length and tie them in bunches. Cook in salted water | j| 

|l! and then leave to cool. Arrange them symmetrically in I II 

a salad-bowl, ornament with hard-boiled eggs, and add I )| 

Ijl two tablespoonfuls of French dressing. V '| 

■!'l 

I?! 

CELERY SALAD <^ 

Remove the outer stalks, which are generally hollow. 
II Put the good ones into a bowl of cold water. Cut each 
stalk Julienne style, wash well, drain and dry them 
thoroughly. Line the salad-bowl with lettuce-leaves, 
season with French dressing, cover the whole with a 
layer of mayonnaise, and ornament with beet root and 
a fine lettuce heart in the centre. 

POTATO SALAD ^ 

Cut and slice cold boiled potatoes, add some chopped 
onions, chives, and parsley. Season with French dressing. 
Pile the salad in the centre of the dish and stirround it 
with small lettuce leaves. Decorate the summit with 11 \ 
quartered hard-boiled eggs and finely chopped beets. ^ 



CRESS AND APPLE SALAD ^ 
Have very clean pepper watercress, and to it add some 
sliced sour apples. When ready to serve season with j 
salt, pepper, vinegar, and a very little oil. t 

MONK'S-BEARD SALADS f 

Clean some monk's-beard leaves by wiping them with | 
a towel. Do not wash them. Add some corn salad, 
chopped chervil, and cooked slices of beet root. Season 
with French dressing, and add a piece of bread crust 

go 






.". V wi»ia^«iip*S«J**;. ■ 



m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 



Guests. 



ii 



Remarks. 



] 



L 



M 



LOUIS' EVERY WOrfAN'S COOK BOOK 



II 



\l 



which has had a clove of garlic rubbed over it. 
piece of bread is called a chapon. 
Corn salad is also called Fitticus or Doucette. 



This 



ROMAINE, ESCAROLE, AND ENDIVE SALADS <^ f I 
Remove the hard and green parts; split each of the |; 
yellow leaves in the centre its entire length. It is pref- 1 1 
erable not to wash these salads, as the leaves may |< 
be cleaned by wiping them. Season with French dressing 
and add some finely chopped chervil and tarragon. A 
garlic flavour may be added if desired. 



ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD ^ 

Sprinkle some small pieces of Roquefort cheese over 
lettuce leaves or escarole. Season with French dressing 
and add some finely chopped cut chives. 



SEVILLE SALAD ^ 

Cut off the tops of six medium-sized peeled tomatoes, 
and scoop out part of the pulp and seeds. Take thirty- 
six asparagus tips about two inches long and insert 
them in the cavities of the tomatoes, six in each, tips 
up, so they will protrude about an inch above the toma- 
toes. Put each on a lettuce leaf and pour French dress- 
ing over it. 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD <^ 
Cut skinned bananas crosswise into slices about an inch 
thick. Put three pieces of them on a medium-sized 
lettuce leaf. Put one-half a teaspoonful of mayonnaise 
dressing on top of each banana and then a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of chopped pecans or walnuts on top of the 
mayonnaise dressing. 

MELBA SALAD ^ 

Cut the bottom of a raw French artichoke into small 

11 strips and to it add the same quantity of celery and 

1 1 apples cut likewise. Cut up double the quantity of 

I escarole salad, the small yellow inside. leaves only. Pul 



' i 


i 


¥) 


1^, 


X • 


'' -■'■"-. , 


"'^"■| 




TB 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. i ' 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



■ s 



s I 



it ^^y 



V 



i 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

all together in a salad-bowl. Prepare a French dressing 
of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and to this add a table- 
spoonful of tarragon leaves, a finely chopped shallot 
onion, a clove of garlic, and some chopped parsley. 
Before serving pour this dressing over the salad. 



If 



CAVOUR SALAD ^ 
This salad is prepared with finely shredded green peppers, 
red pimentos, and potato salad. Put the shredded sweet 
pimentos mixed with French dressing in the centre of a 
flat salad-dish. Put a border of potato salad around the 
red pimentos, and lastly a second border of the finely 
shredded green peppers mixed with French dressing. 

c 1 1 These three colours, red, white, and green, make a very 

I I pretty effect. 

royAle salad ^ 

Cut into dice some fresh pineapples, oranges, celery, and 
apples, and mix with some mayonnaise into which a few " 
tablespoonfuls of heavy cream have been previously 
mixed. Dish up on a shallow salad-dish and garnish 
with finely chopped green peppers and sweet pimento 
in little heaps, alternating the colour all around the border. 
Sprinkle a few finely chopped pecan nuts in the centre. 

WALDORF salad ^ 
Take some peeled apples and the same quantity of the 
hearts of cleaned and peeled white celery cut in small 
cubes, and mix with a well-seasoned mayonnaise. Put 
in a flat salad-dish. Cut some sweet Spanish peppers in 
long narrow strips and put them over the salad like a 
grating; surround the whole with some leaves of hearts 
of lettuce. 

TOMATO WITH CHIVES ^ 
Put a thick slice of peeled tomato on a yellow lettuce 
leaf; cover the sliced tomato with mayonnaise dressing 
and then sprinkle finely cut chives on the mayonnaise. 

92 



i I rkinc* 



I 






LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

R^narks. 



i; 









k 



'i ■ i 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

CRABFLAKE SALAD ^ 
Mix one qtiart of crabflakes with one-half a pint of 
mayonnaise dressing. Put in a flat salad-dish, surround 
1 1 with lettuce leaves j and sprinkle finely chopped sweet 
pimentos over it. 



NOTE 

Numerous other recipes for salads and dressings may 
be found in " Louis' Salads and Chafing Dishes." 



93 



at ^-'^ -TS 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

-i 

ii When Served. 

Guests. 

n Remarks. 









II II 



3: 



\i 



u 



DISHES PREPARED FROM FOOD LEFT 
OVER FROM PREVIOUS MEALS 

MINCED HALIBUT WITH POTATOES, BAKED ^ |; 
Prepare some potatoes hashed in cream in the usual |j 
manner. Remove the skin and bones from the halibut ^\ 
left over from a previous meal. Break the fish into 
small pieces and then add to it the potatoes. Season 
well, put the whole in a deep baking-dish; sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, grated Parmesan cheese, and butter. 
Bake to a nice golden colour. 



SALMON SALAD ^ 
Break the cooked salmon into small pieces, add some 
shredded lettuce and mix with as much mayonnaise I I 
dressing as desired. Put the salad on a platter, surround l' ; 
with lettuce leaves and quartered h^d-boiled eggs, and j|| 
sprinkle finely chopped cooked beets over it. H 



SCALLOPED CODFISH^ 
Mix the boiled codfish left over, free from skin and bones, 
with cream sauce. Season well. Put a border of mashed 
potatoes, to which the yolk of an egg has been added, 
around the edge of some natural or silver scallop shells. 
Put the creamed fish in the centre of these shells, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and butter, and brown in the oven to 
a nice golden colour. Serve the scalloped fish individually 
or place them on a platter covered with a napkin. 

RISSOLES OF CHICKEN ^ 
With some boiled or. roast chicken prepare an ordinary 
chicken hash, but not too creamy. Put it on the ice 
to get cold. Prepare some pancakes and cut them with 
a cutter, three inches ia diameter, into round pieces. 

94 







LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 






^ 



^sf— --=M 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

11 H Put a tablespoonful of the prepared chicken hash in the 
|i III centre of the pancake, and double over so as to obtain 
a rissole half -moon shape; bread it in egg and bread 
|i if crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce. 



^1 



MINCED AND DEVILLED TURKEY ^ 
Cut from the breast of a cooked turkey six slices about a 
quarter of an inch thick. Trim them oval-shape, about 
two inches long. Mix a tablespoonful of English mustard 
with a little Worcestershire sauce so as to obtain a paste. 
Spread it over the slices of turkey, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and a little melted butter; put the pieces on a 
pie-plate and brown them slightly in the oven. With 
the remaining trimmings and dark meat prepare a hash. 
Cook six slices of bacon, and have ready six pieces of 
toast cut heart-shape. When ready to serve put the hash 
on the platter, the devilled slices of turkey on top of the 
hash, and surround the whole with the bacon and toast. 

This is a very tasty dish and may be served as an entree 
for a dinner or Itmcheon. 

LAMB HASH WITH GREEN PEPPERS ^S 
To one pint of cooked lamb add one pint of cooked 
potatoes, both ingredients chopped very fine. Fry one 
finely chopped green pepper in butter for a few minutes, 
then add the lamb and potatoes, and moisten the whole 
with a cup of soup stock and let it simmer slowly for 
about ten minutes. If the potatoes are mealy they will 
thicken the hash sufficiently. Season with salt and nut- 
meg, add a small piece of butter, and serve in a deep 
dish. Surrotmd with small pieces of toast cut triangular 
shape. 

LAMB CROQUETTES^ 
Chop fine one onion, fry it in butter to a golden colour 
and then add one pint of finely cut lamb and a pint of 
cooked potatoes cut in the same way. Add a cup of good 
bouillon, and let it simmer for ten minutes, stirring 
occasionally so as to obtain a thick hash. Add a tea- 
PS 




■..-•e^.,I^A->V'Hm»-riM»ie,lftf*l- - . 




^r^ 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



1^ 



) 



? 



r 



W ^ 



i 



'A 



LOUIS' E\f^RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

spoonful of chopped parsley, put it on a fiat tin pan, 
and cool it off on the ice. When cold and solid form 
croquettes of it, egg-shape. RoU them in flotu*, dip in 
eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain off 
all the fat with a napkin and serve with a little demi- 
glace to which a tablespoonful of chopped mint leaves 
has been added. 

BEEF HASH, ENGLISH STYLE ^ 
Cut in small dice one pound of roast beef, free from 
gristle, but mixed with a small quantity of the fat part. I 
Fry one finely chopped onion in butter to a slight brown 
colour, then add a heaping tablespoonful of flour and ^ 



MINCED VEAL AND HAM ^S |! 



Cut up in small dice one-half potmd of roast veal and 
a quarter of a pound of cooked lean ham. Fry two 
finely chopped fresh mushrooms in butter, add a table- 
spoonful of flour and a cup of cream and milk mixed. 

96 



* 






^l.iVifJ^f^sm'f -- tS'AS»»JW*M^«il»!(i«Bi 




! M 



fry together for two minutes. Then add a cup of light Ij 
j I gravy or rich soup stock, and stir well to obtain a sauce; |j 
I ! 1 1 add the beef and a<table.spoonf ul of ketchup and a dash of ' ! 

'] Worcestershire sauce. Put this hash in a deep metal I I 

I !| or fire-proof china dish, cover it with mashed potatoes, I I 

to which the yolks of two eggs have been added, sprinkle j, 

|j 11 with bread crumbs and melted butter, and bake for |[ 11 

: I ten minutes in the oven so that the potatoes will be well 

browned. 



BROILED AND DEVILLED BONES <^ | 

Take a rib of some roast ribs of beef, leaving the meat | 

on the bone about one-half an inch thick. Season with I 

i 

salt and pepper, and broil over a moderate fire for five 

v[ 1 1 minutes. Mix a teaspoonful of English mustard with I 

' i' I V i 

■ I i I Worcestershu-e sauce so as to obtam a paste. Cover the I 

meat with it, sprinkle with bread crunibs and melted | | 

butter, and broil ifor five minutes more. Serve on a | 
piece of buttered toast with a little gravy in the dish. 



I 




^ 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. ' 

Remarks. 



' SI 






I 






H 



if 



t ' 



rr 

LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

Let it come to a boil and then add the veal and ham. 
Season with salt and pepper. When boiling add the yolks 
of two eggs, stir well together for another minute, and 
then remove from the fire. Have six rowid pieces of 
toast ready on a platter; divide the hash on the toast, 
heaping it up as much as possible. Sprinkle a little finely 
chopped parsley over it. 



w 



i 



^1 



I 



>■ 



A 



97 



at — — ^ 



..»aBEak-i":6^-: 



, .JL&P--.-«.^fi i-.^^.S««Wt".«t^;u 'i. 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 



ai^ftBjB*n'»w"'«'-L 



«'-,-}l.BW*W8*.'' Btlffl^lVki.. 



SWEET ENTREMETS OR DESSERTS 



OMELETTE SOUFFLEE A LA VANILLE <^ 
Place in a bowl the yolks of six eggs with five heaping 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and one-half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla extract. Beat together vigorously for 
a few minutes. Take the whites of nine eggs in a bowl 
or copper basin, and beat them to a stiff froth with a wire 
whisk. Mix the yolks and the whites together carefully, 
pile the mixture on a metal baking-dish, smooth it over 
with a knife, and bake for twelve or fifteen minutes in 
a moderate oven. Sprinkle sugar over it and serve 
immediately. 



Is 



PANCAKES WITH MERINGUE ^ 
Prepare six small pancakes, cover them with raspberry 
jam, and roll them up. Cut each roll in two, and place 
them on a slightly buttered baking-dish. Beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth, then mix into it carefuUy 
four ounces of powdered sugar; cover the pieces of 
pancakes with this meringue, sprinkle sugar over it, and 
bake for five minutes in a very moderate oven. 

PEACHES WITH RICE A LA CONDE ^ 
Prepare an ordinary sweet mUk rice, vanilla flavour. 
Put on a round platter a layer of it about an inch thick. 
Have ready some peeled half peaches which have been 
previously cooked in a syrup; arrange them nicely on 
top of the rice, and put a border of maraschino cherries 
around the peaches. Colour some of the peach syrup to a 
light pink and pour over it. Serve warm. 



PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. WITH MACAROONS^ 

Cut in two, slices of cored and cooked pineapples to obtain 

half-moon shaped pieces. Drain. Break up some dry 



98 



w »if' »M'llll«!»*il.ji«i/ « Wii 



f<**W«Pfc«W^3i 




1^ 




LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



\ r 



i 



!ar~ - « 



LOUIS* £V£RY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

macaroons and moisten with brandy and curacoa; mash 
them to obtain a thick paste. Put this macaroon paste 
between two pieces of pineapple. Prepare as many as 
needed. Dip them in flour and then in frying batter, 
and fry in deep fat to a golden colour. Drain off the fat 
well and serve on a napkin. 



11 



h 



SNOW EGGS WITH CUSTARD ^ 
Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth and mix into 
it carefully four oimces of powdered sugar. Have one 
quart sweetened milk flavoured with vanilla boiling in 
a flat saucepan. With a large spoon mould the meringues 
into the shape of large eggs, dip them in the boiling milk, 
turn them over once or twice, poach them slowly for a 
few minutes until cooked; then take them out and drain 
on a sieve. With one pint of the milk, the yolks of three 
eggs, and a teaspoonful of cornstarch prepare a custard. 
Let it get cold. Arrange the snow eggs in a deep glass 
dish and pour the custard over it. Surround with small 
macaroons dipped in brandy. 

BAVARIAN CREAM WITH MARASCHINO ^ 
With one pint of milk, six ounces of sugar and the yolks 
of four eggs prepare a custard or English cream. Add 
one otmce of gelatine while hot, and have it well dis- 
solved. Strain into a bowl, stir until cold, and then add 
a small glass of maraschino. When it begins to thicken 
mix two pints of whipped cream into it; put the prepara- 
tion into a jelly mould and let it get solid on the ice. 
When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly in hot water 
and invert on a cold dish. 



li 



CHOCOLATE SOUFFLEE PUDDING ^ss 
Put into a saucepan the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of 
butter, two oimces of corn-starch, two ounces of grated 
chocolate, four otmces of sugar, and half a gill of milk. 
Mix well and stk on the fire until it thickens, taking care 
not to have it too hot. Remove it from the fire, and place 

99 



f 



■.■"ftTWAWiSK^i^H. 



iv,-*»iw»grtMwi^(iJMi,*!i^«n;?3i| 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Saved. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



m 




LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

immediately in a bowl, stirring occasionally until nearly 
cold. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth and 
I i mix carefully into the preparation. Butter well one large 
I cylindrical or two small moulds and put the mixture 
I into it. Have the moulds four-fifths full. Stand the 
I moulds in a saucepan with two inches of boiling water I ' | 
I in it, put the cover on and steam for twenty minutes, i I 

Then remove the cover and put the pan in the oven for 
I five or eight minutes. Turn the pudding out on a hot 
j platter. Serve hot vanilla custard sauce with it. 



APPLE CHARLOTTE <S 
Cut thin slices of sandwich bread one inch wide and three 
inches long, dip them in clarified butter and place them 
against the sides of a round mould 4x4 inches, over- 
lapping each piece. Put some also in the bottom of the 
mould. Cut a quart of apples into slices, cook them with 
sugar and very little water, adding a small piece of lemon 
rind and a small stick of cinnamon. When cooked the 
liquid should have evaporated. Remove the lemon 
and cinnamon, fill the apples into the bread-lined mould 
and bake slowly for one-half an hour until the bread 
has baked to a light brown colour. Turn out the char- 
lotte carefully on a platter and serve claret sauce with it. 

Make a syrup with sugar and water, favour with 
lemon, and add a glass of claret wine. 



1" 

I 


1 
■ 


= 


i 



100 



P 'f LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK j' 

I \f When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



^ if 



I 






II 



r"" - -^ 



M 



I 



r 



ICES 

VANILLA ICE-CREAM ^ 
Boil one quart of milk with three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar and a vanilla bean split in tvro. Have the yolks 
of eight eggs mixed with one-half a gill of milk in a bowl. 
Stir the boiling milk into the yolks of eggs, and then put 
it all back into the saucepan and stir on the fire for a few 
minutes until it thickens a little. Remove from the fire, 
add one quart of raw cream, strain through a sieve, and 
when cooled freeze in the ordinary manner. Extract 
of vanilla may be used in place of the vanilla bean, but i! 
must be added only when it has cooled off. f ' 



r; 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD ICE-CREAM 4^ 
Cut one-half a pound of brown bread into thin slices, then 
dry them in a warm place until crisp, and break up into 
crumbs. Freeze one and one-half quarts of vanilla 
ice-cream, and, when partly frozen — just beginning to 
thicken a little — add one-half of the brown bread crumbs 
and two tablespoonfuls of curacoa. Freeze until solid. 
Fill the cream into a small broWn bread mould and keep 
it in salted ice for an hour. Dip the mould in warm water 
and turn the cream out on a platter, and sprinkle the 
other half of the crumbs over it. 



PLOMBIERE WITH CHESTNUTS (MARRONS) ^ 
Take a smaU glass jar of marrons glaces in syrup, and 
place the marrons or chestnuts in a sieve to drain. Break 
half of them into pieces, and keep the other half whole. 
Cut four macaroons into small pieces and make crumbs 
of six dried ones. Beat up a pint of cream, sweeten it, 
add a little vanilla flavour and two tablespoonfuls of 
maraschino. Take a three-pint ice-cream mould (half 



lOI 



m 



ini LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 'nl 

When Served. 

Guests. 1; 

Remarks. || 



isi— —m 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

1 1 1 1 melon shape) and line it with vanilla ice-cream three- 

11 If quarters of an inch thick. Mix the whipped cream with 

the pieces of macaroons and chestnuts and fill this into 

tl 1| the centre of the mould. Put a thin layer of vanilla 

"' 'f ice-cream on top of this filling, and then put the cover *• 

11 I on, closing the joining between the cover and the mould 

1^ i with soft butter. Put the mould in salted ice, and let it :i 

;^ freeze for one and one-half hours. When ready to i 

j serve, dip the mould quickly in warm water, tvu-n the I 

1 1 If plombiere out on a platter, and sprinkle the macaroon 

I 1 1 crumbs all over it. Put small heaps of whipped cream I 

I around the ice-cream and place a whole chestnut on top I 

I I ''^ ^^'^^ heap. ii 

P' f This is an excellent dessert, even if a littlie compli- 

.- .if 

' I cated. The outside is frozen hard and the filling still 

remains soft, and is very jpalatable. 



I' ! 



H 



U 



CAFE PARFAIT453 j. 

Beat up one quart of cream, sweeten it, add a little i|| 

vanilla flavour, and fill it into a dome-shaped mould. 11 
Put the cover on and put in salted ice for an hour. Take 

the mould out and remove the cover carefully. The i 

cream is now frozen to the sides to the thickness of an i', 

inch, the interior being soft. Scoop out the soft part f] 

and mix with it two tablespoonftils of strong extract of || 

coffee and a little more powdered sugar. Put it back |l 

into the cream-lined mould and place the cover on again. I 

Put the mould back into the salted ice for another hotu:. ' 
When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water 
and turn out on a platter covered with a folded napkin. 



GRAPEFRUIT SHERBETS 
Boil one quart of water with one and one-quarter pounds 
of sugar, adding the peel of half an orange and half a 
lemon. Strain, and let it get cold. Add the juice of four 
grapefruits, two oranges, and half a gill of " Forbidden 
Fruit" cordial. Freeze in the ordinary manner and 
serve in glasses or fancy cases. 

102 



, 



. - Wi^i^^f.^^^vt^fa 




m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 
\ Remarks. 



fa t i 




LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 



OK I 



LILLIAN RUSSELL ^ 
Cut small cantaloupes in two, remove the seeds, and fill 
the cavities with vanilla ice-cream. Put a few maraschino 
I cherries on top of the cream. 



i> 



PEARS A LA MELBA ^ 
Have some Bartlett pears peeled, cored, cut in halves, 
and boiled in a light syrup, ice cold. Cut pieces of sponge 
or pound cake into slices one-half an inch thick, trim 
them heart-shape, put on a platter, and cover the cake 
with a slice of vanilla ice-cream the same shape. Then 
place one-half a pear on top of the cream and pour 
Melba sauce over it. 

Melba sauce may be bought from first-class grocers 
in small bottles,, or a thick, cold raspberry sauce will 
answer the purpose. 



m 



IQ3 




■ia^v^bjiimimma&Sirifi^smis.^tKgi:'.^. 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



IS 



I! 









ISP 



is 



II 



CHEESE CROQUETTES ^53 
i I Have one cup of extra thick cream sauce boiling ; add one- 
! half a pound of rarebit cheese cut in small dice, the yolks 
1 1 ll ot two eggs, salt, and Cayenne pepper. Stir for a minute 
I ' 1 1 ^o Ic^ it i^t ^o^t ^ut t^c cheese should melt only partially. 
! I Remove from the fire and cool it off quickly by spreading 
fi ( out thin on a platter. When cold, form thin oblong- 
shaped cakes. Put them in flour, egg, and fresh bread 
crumbs; be sure to have them well breaded. Fry in 
very hot deep fat and serve on a napkin. 



i r — 

k 



TOASTED CHEESE SANDWICHES <s 
Cut and toast six slices of bread. Cover three of them 
with thin slices of American cheese, and put in the oven 
in a tin pan. When the cheese is nearly melted, place 
the other slices of toast on top; keep the sandwiches 
for two more minutes in the oven to have them very 
hot. Trim off the crust and serve in a covered dish. 

104 



HOT CHEESE DISHES 

CHEESE TARTELETTES ^^ 
Line with puff-paste some small, flat tin tartelette moulds 
two and one-half inches in diameter by one inch deep. Cut 
three ounces of rarebit cheese into small dice and have 
[| ready three heaping tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese. I 
1 i Beat two whole eggs and the yolk of one egg with one- 
half a pint of cream, add the cheese, salt, white pepper, a 
pinch of Cayenne, a little grated nutmeg, and a tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter. Fill this preparation into the moulds, 
making them three-quarters full, and bake in a moderate 
oven for twelve or fifteen minutes. Take them out of 
the moulds carefully and serve immediately on a folded 
napkin. 



? 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

When Served. 

Guests. 
* Remarks. 






i 1 
) 






'li 



« 



1 

,1 



»— ^:z°iiS 




'LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

i WELSH RAREBIT ^ 
Cut one-half a pound of American cheese in small 
pieces. Put into a saucepan with a small piece of butter, 
one-half a glass of ale, a pinch of Cayenhe, a little English 
mustard, and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce. Melt 
it slowly and then stir it well on a brisk fire until it 
comes to a boil, Powc over toasted bread or serve in a 
blazer or covered deep dish with toast separate. 

GOLDEN BUCK ^ 
Prepare a Welsh rarebit as for previous recipe. Poiu: 
the cheese over big slices of toast and place a well- 
trimmed poached egg on top, one for each person. 

» 

YORKSHIRE BUCK^ 
Prepare as previous recipe, but add a few thin slices of • 
crisp broiled bacon. 



105 






m 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 
When Served. 

Guests. 

Remarks. 



r^-^ ^^^ 







f! 



BRIEF EXPLANATION OF SOME UN- 
COMMON ARTICLES 

CAVIAR <^ 

A preparation for the table of the roe of certain large 

fish preserved by salting. The best is made from the 

roe of sterlet, sturgeon, and beluga caught in the lakes 

and rivers of Russia. It is a delicacy appreciated by 

I gourmets, and may be served on small pieces of toast 

I garnished with chopped onions and finely chopped hard- 

;; boiled eggs and lemon. It may be bought in cans or 

i glass jars at first-class groceries or delicatessen stores. 

•J 

I ANCHOVY ^ 

I This is a small fish caught in the Mediterranean. It is 
I split and salted, freed from bones, and may be bought 
I in small glass jars called " Fillet of Anchovies." It has 
a high flavour and is used as an appetizer or as a gar- 
I nishing for certain salads. 



PIMOLAS ^S 
Small olives stuffed in the centre with pimento. They 
are sold in small glass bottle?. 

CAPERS ^ 
Pickled small green berries of a shrub, sold in bottles 
or jars. 



PAPRIKA PEPPER <^ 
' A product of Hungaria, sold in powder form. It is red 
like Cayenne pepper, but not so strong, and is used for 
stews and Hungarian goulash. 



^ 



io6 



m 



■I 



■K-aBiwiE»<» aff| i a w»figeyia 





^ 



l: 



LOUIS' EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

HERBES AROMATIQUE ^ss 

Th3^e 

Sage 

Marjoram 

Summer Savoury 

Bay leaf 
Ordinarily the above come in dry form on the branches. 
They are excellent for flavouring, but should be used 
only in small quantities. 

CURRY POWDERS 

A yellow powder of which the principal ingredient is 
turmeric. It is a product of India and is a high seasoning 
for Indian dishes, such as ctury of chicken, veal, lobster, 
etc. 

CHUTNEY ^£ 

An East India sweet hot pickle made from cocoanut, 
chillies and other articles. Sold in glass jars. 

TRUFFLES ^ 
A species of fungus, which grows in certain parts of 
France, and is fotmd several inches undergroimd. The 
finest come from Perigord. Fresh truffles are of a very 
strong aromatic flavour, but they are sold usually pre- 
served in cans or glass bottles. 

CEPES ^ 
Large flat mushrooms which may be bought in cans. 
They are a valuable addition in preparing entrees and 
sauces, and are to be preferred to ordinary canned 
mushrooms, as they have a much stronger flavour. 

CHIVES (CIBOULETTES) ^ 
A kind of slim green onion tops, but mild in flavour. 
They are used in soups, sauces, salads, and with certain 

cheeses. . 

107 



WA4i. ;ks^^«,4j --. 



! 






if 



li 



LOUIS* EVERY WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

GARLIC (" THE FRENCHMAN'S DELIGHT ") ^ 
A bulb like an onion, useful for flavouring, but only in 
very small quantities. A clove of garlic rubbed on a 
small crust of bread called a " chapon," mixed with 
salads, is commonly used in French or Italian restaurants 
to give a pfeculiar flavour to the dressing. It may be 
bought from vegetable dealers. 

LEEKS ^ 
A species of onion, the leaves of which are green on the 
top and white near the root and flat like ribbons, not 
tubular like onions. Leeks are milder in flavour than 
onions', and are used in most of the vegetable soups. 

CHERVIL ^ 
A garden herb like young parsley, of a delicious flavour. 
May be tised in salads or soups. 

TARRAGON (ESTRAGON) ^ 
A garden herb, the delicate small narrow leaves of which 
are used in sauces or salads and to prepare tarragon 
vinegar. In summer big btmches of tarragon are placed 
in large glass bottles, covered with good vinegar, and 
put in the sun for two or three weeks and then bottled. 

LENTILS ^ 
A kind of flat dry pea of a brown colotir. The smaller 
kind, called Egyptian, is considered the best. Lentils 
are excellent for soup or as a vegetable, and are very 
I nourishing. 

I ARROWROOT ^ 

Similar to corn-starch, but having a delicate flavour of 
its own. It is much used as a diet for invalids. 



io8 



^ — ' —a 






VARIOUS CHEESES USED IN COOKING 

PARMESAN CHEESE ^ 
An Italian cheese imported from Parma. It is always 
used in grated form and is of an excellent flavour. The 
best kind is used for macaroni, Italian rice, or in cream 
sauces for fish and vegetables. 

GRUYERE OR SWISS CHEESE <^ 
A cheese imported from Switzerland which is used for 
many dishes, soups, and sandwiches. 

AMERICAN CHEESE ^ 
Cheese used for rarebit and other hot cheese dishes. 



1 



11 



5 ' 






109 



m 




!l 



INDEX 

BRIEF EXPLANATION OF SOME UNCOMMON 
ARTICLES 

CANAPES 

Anchovies 

Caviar 

Danish 

Norwegian 

Oriental 

Sardines 

Tartine a la Russe 

Tartine de Foie Gras 

Windsor 

DISHES PREPARED FROM FOOD LEFT OVER 
FROM PREVIOUS MEALS 
Beef Hash, English Style . 
Broiled and Devilled Bones 
Lamb Croquettes . 
Lamb Hash mth Green Peppers 
Minced and Devilled Turkey 
Minced Halibut with Potatoes, Baked 
Minced Veal and Ham 
Rissoles of Chicken 
Salmon Salad 
Scalloped Codfish 

EGGS . • • 
Benedict 
Coquelicot 
Farci au Gratin 
Meyerbeer 
Momay . 



m 



io6 

I 
I 
I 
I 

2 
2 
2 
2 

3 
3 

2 



94 
96 
96 
95 
95 
95 
94 
96 

94 
94 
94 

47 
47 
47 
47 
48 
48 



III 



M 



f" 



INI>£X 



I: 



Omelette a la Paul .... 
Omelette 0. C. Y. C. Style . 
Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus Tips 

ENTREES OF BEEF . . . . . 
Beef Tongue Braised a la Romaine 
Medaillon of Beef a la Bertrand 
Minion Fillet of Beef " Louis " . 
Tenderloin Steak Mirabeau 
Tournedos of Fillet of Beef Cheron 

ENTREES OF GAME . . . 
Braised Quail, Celery Sauce 
Civet of Rabbit .... 
Grenadins of Venison a la Cumberland 
Partridge with Savoy Cabbage . 
Salmi of Grouse with Truffles . 
Venison Chops, Port Wine Sauce 

ENTREES OF LAMB AND MUTTON 
Lamb Chops a la Favorite 
Loin of Mutton with Turnips 
Minions of Lamb Andalouse 
Mutton Chops Devilled English Style 
Noisette of Lamb a la Robinson 

ENTREES — MISCELLANEOUS . 
Croquettes of Chicken . 
Croquettes of Sweetbread . 
Epigrammes of Sweetbread 
Mousse of Virginia Ham . 
Mushroom under Glass 

Pigeon Pie 

Terrapin Maryland 

Timbale Parisienne 

Turtle Meat or Fins a la Newburg 

Vol-au-Vent a la Toulouse . 

ENTREES OF POULTRY 

Breast of Chicken a la Sam Ward 
Breast of Chicken Bombay Style 



i 



112 



48 
48 

49 

74 
75 
75 
74 
74 
74 

66 
66 
67 
67 
66 
66 
67 

69 

69 
70 

69 
70 

69 

76 
78 
78 
78 
77 
77 
77 
79 
76 

79 
76 

59 
60 
60 



m'*'^M<i!i»^musmsii 




w 



:^ 



B^6k^'-v.i-. j!!«»it>% 



INDEX 



w 



I 



Breast of Guinea Hen Souveraine 

Capon a la Chevaliere . 

Chicken a la Creole 

Chicken a la Stanley . 

Chicken Forcemeat 

Duckling a la Portugaise . 

Goose a la Chipolata . 

Guinea Hen a la Soubise . 

Squab en Casserole 

Supreme of Breast of Chicken vnth TrufEles 

Timbales of Chicken . 



ENTREES OF VEAL 



Calf's Brain with Browned Butter 

Calf's Head a la Poulette . 

Paprika " Schnitzel " of Veal . 

Sweetbread Braised with Asparagus Tips 

Sweetbread Eugenie . 

Sweetbread Pompadour 

Veal Chops Larded and Glaced . 



:l 



i 



FISH 

Bluefish Baked Creole Style 
Butterfish Saute Colbert . 
Codfish in Cream (Baked) . 
Cutlets of Salmon with Peas 
Eels Sailor Style (Matelotte) 
Fillet of Halibut Girard 
Fillet of Kingfish —Bon Vivant 
Fillet of Sole Hoteliere 
Fillet of Sole Venitienne 
Finnan Haddie " en Coquilles " . 
Fish Forcemeat .... 
Fresh Mackerel Saute in Butter 
Grenadins of Salmon — Shrimp Sauce 
Haddock a la Momay . 
Halibut Major Domo . 
Kingfish Saute -with Fine Herbs . 
Paupiettes of Smelts (White Wine Sauce) 
"3 



m 



i^jttsia»j»> an »aiwi 



64 
62 
61 
61 
59 
63 
63 
64 
62 

59 
65 

71 
73 
73 
72 
71 
72 
71 
72 

30 
39 
37 
37 
36 
38 
32 
38 
32 
31 
40 
30 
33 
37 
40 

32 
39 
30 



eB«S*-t5>^>,^gr*»-s»" 



•-i3si?i»3H*;^wl 



m 





33 1 


'■ \ 


34 




35 




41 




84 1 




84 




84 1 II 


84 1 






INDEX 

Paupiettes of Trout-Mantou .... 34 

Planked Shad 39 

Pompano — Lobster Sauce 39 

Red Snapper Baked Italienne Style ... 37 

Salmon 3^ 

Salmon a la Balzac 3^ 

Sea-Bass Maitre d'Hotel 33 

Sheepshead Boiled — Egg Sauce ... 40 
Smelts Saute Meuniere . . • ' -3^ 
Spanish Mackerel Mariniere ... .34 
Striped Bass a la Bercy .... 
Trout Baked in Cream .... 

Trout in Jelly 

Whitebait Fried Plain, or Devilled . 

GAME 

Blackhead Duck 

Brant Duck 

Canvasback Duck 

Doe Birds . . . • 

Mallard Duck . 84 

Partridge 85 

Pheasant 8s 

Plovers 84 

Quail 85 

Redhead Duck 84 

Reed Birds 85 

Rice Birds 85 

Ruddy or Butterball Duck 84 

Snipe 8s 

Snow Birds 8s 

Teal Duck 84 

Widgeon 84 

Woodcock Roast or Broiled on Canapes . . 85 



HOT CHEESE DISHES 104 

Cheese Croquettes 104 

Cheese Tartelettes 104 

Golden Buck los 

Toasted Cheese Sandwiches . . . .104 

i 



'p 



INDEX 



Welsh Rarebit 105 

Yorkshire Buck 105 

HOT SIDE-DISHES, OR HORS D'OEUVRES 

CHAUDS 24 

1 1 Bouchees of Oyster Crabs 28 

Brochette of Sweetbread (Tomato Sauce) . . 26 

Canapes of Hard-Shell Crabs .... 25 

I I Croustade of Frogs' Legs 24 

I 1 Croustade of Mushroom 24 

Hungarian Croquettes 28 

Lobster en Brochette 25 

J . Marrow Fritters 29 

' ' Mushrooms en Surprise 26 

Ravioli Napolitaine 27 

Rissoles Pompadour 27 

Scotch Canapes 25 

ICES 101 

Boston Brown Bread Ice-Cream . . . loi 

Cafe Parfait 102 

Grapefruit Sherbet 102 

Lillian Russell 103 

Pears a la Melba 103 

Plombiere with Chestnuts loi 

Vanilla Ice-Cream loi 

KITCHEN BOUQUET 8 

ROAST, JOINTS OR " GROSSES PIECES " . . 80 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce ... 81 

Braised Rump of Beef with Macaroni . . 80 

Brisket of Corned Beef with Vegetables . . 81 

Capon a la Pennington 82 

Rib of Beef and Tip of the Sirloin ... 80 

I f| Roast Chicken, Giblet Sauce .... 82 

Roast Goose, Gooseberry Sauce .... 82 

Roast Ham with Spinach 83 

Roast Hindquarter of Spring Lamb ... 81 

Roast Loin of Veal with Edney ... 83 

Roast Rack of Lamb 81 

Roast Saddle of Mutton 81 

"5 



m 



«-^ 



IB9-ti**t^'ii«J-' ■»«A jl^'Mi 



INDEX 

Roast Saddle of Vemson 82 

Roast Sirloin of Beef, English Style ... 80 

Roast Turkey Stuffed 82 

Roast Young Duckling 82 

Tenderloin of Beef a la Portugaise ... 80 

SALADS 90 

Asparagus 90 

Banana and Nut gi 

Cavour 92 

J Celery 90 

;| ^^ Crabflake 93 

If J I 

|[ j| Cress and Apple 90 

Endive 91 

Escarole 91 

f- :!| Home-made French Dressing .... 89 

|; 1 1 How Different Salads are Prepared and Served 89 

i' I Melba 91 

j| Monk's-Beard 90 

p ij Potato 90 

i \! Romaine 91 

II Roquefort Cheese 91 

I ll Royale 92 

Seville 91 

I . j I Tomato with Chives 92 

'•> Waldorf 92 

? ? SAUCES 50 

Allemande 54 

Bearnaise » • 55 

Bechamel 55 

Bercy 56 

Bigarad 51 

Bordelaise 51 

Caper 56 

I Cardinal 56 

:| Colbert 51 

Cream 55 

Creole 52 

Cumberland 52 




^-"'•«M««K'lV-l ^ .A, - 




=?=^ 

mDEK 

Demi Glace 50 

Devilled 52 

Egg 56 

Espagnole or Spanish Brown .... 50 

Fish 57 

Fresh Mushroom 52 

Hollandaise 57 

Italienne 53 

Mayonnaise 50 

Oyster 57 

Perigueux 53 

Piquante 53 

Port Wine 53 

Poulette 57 

Remoulade 51 

Robert 54 

Shrimp .58 

Tartar 51 

Tomato 54 

Trianon 58 

Veloute 55 

Vin Blanc, or White Wine ..... 58 



j SHELL FISH 42 

Baked Lobster a la Gerant 42 

Clams Chatham Style 43 

Crab Flakes in Cream 45 

Crabflakes Momay 45 

Lobster a la Bercy 42 

Lobster Newport Style 42 

Oysters a la Poulette 44 

Oyster Crabs Astoria 45 

Oyster Crabs Devilled 46 

Oysters en Brochette, or Flying Angels . . 44 

Oysters Manhattan 43 

Quahaug Clams (Stuffed) 43 

Soft Shell Crabs Broiled 44 

Soft Shell Crabs with Browned Butter . . 45 

Stuffed Crabs with Bacon 45 



w 




INDEX 



SOUP STOCKS . 

Brown or Rich Stock . 
Chicken Stock or Broth 
Clam Broth . 
Fish Stock . 
Kitchen Bouquet . 
Mutton and Veal Broths 
Plain Stock Bouillon or Marmite 
White Stock, or Fond Blanc 



SOUPS 



CONSOMMES OR CLEAR, WITH DIFFERENT 
GARNISHINGS 
Consomme . 
Consomme Caroline 



Consomme Celestine 
Consomme Colbert 
Consomme Fermiere 
Consomme Isabelle 
Consomme Monaco 
Consonune Princess 
Consomme Sevigne 
Consomme with Cheese Croutons 
Royal ...... 



il 



SOUPS, CREAM AND PUREE . 

Cream of Catiliflower a la Dubarry 
Cream of Cieleiy .... 
Cream of Chicken Reine Margot 
Cream of Mushroom . 
Cream of Sorrel with Tapioca . 
Puree of Lentils .... 
Puree of White Beans a la Bretonne 
Puree St. Lambert 



SOUPS, ESSENCES 
Beef Tea 
Beef Juice 
Essence of Beef 
Essence of Celery 
Essence of Chicken and Clams 
ii8 




m 



4 
5 
6 
6 

5 
8 
6 
4 
4 



9 
8 

9 
9 

lO 

II 

lO 

II 

10 
lO 

II 
9 

12 
12 
12 
13 
13 
12 

14 
14 
13 

19 

20 
20 
20 

19 
20 





INDEX 



Essence of Mushroom 
Essence of Tomatoes 



SOUPS, FISH AND SHELL FISH 
Bisque of Lobster . 
Bisque of Oysters, Family Style 
Clam Soup Duxbury . 
Cream of Oyster Crabs 
Fish Chowder — Boston Style 
Mousseline of Clams . 



SOUPS, RICH 

Chicken Gumbo — Southern Style 
Game Soup, or Puree of Grouse . 
Ox Joint Clear .... 
Ox Joint Thick, or a I'Anglaise . 
Potage d'Artagnan, or Calf's Foot 
Potage Westmoreland . 
Scotch Cockie-Leekie . 



SWEET ENTREMETS OR DESSERTS 
Apple Charlotte .... 
Bavarian Cream with Maraschino 
Chocolate Soufflee Pudding 
Omelette Soufflee a la Vanille . 
Pancakes with Meringue 
Peaches with Rice a la Conde . 
Pineapple Fritters with Macaroons 
Snow Eggs with Custard 



Soup 



m 



TABLE SERVICE 



19 
19 

21 
22 
22 
21 

23 
21 
21 

15 
17 
IS 
16 

17 
16 

15 
17 

98 
100 
99 
99 
98 
98 
98 
98 
99 

vii 



VARIOUS CHEESES USED IN COOKING 

American 

Gruyere, or Swiss .... 
Parmesan 



109 
109 
109 
109 



VEGETABLES 

Artichokes Boiled, Hollandaise Sauce 
Artichoke Farci, a la Barigoule 



m 



iig 



86 
86 
86 



i 




r 



•.••*t*iS»»i5W*vi«ii)(KH«rti«*^i'>*i-'; 



S 



INDEX 

Baked Cauliflower 87 

Celery au Jus 86 

Celery Veloute 86 

Cepes Provencal 87 

Fried Oyster Plant 88 I ; 

Mushrooms Bourgeoise ^7 I ! 

Stuffed Green Peppers 88 ■; 1 

Stuffed Tomatoes 87 [I 

Tomatoes and Eggplant a la Grecque . . 88 | !' 



120 



m 




for pmv €)i[Dn Becefptjs 





k 




y :. m 



■^ ! 



!for gour flDtun mecefptsJ 



ii 






j 1 



I 



1 



gr°^ " w 



1^ 



for pmv flDton Mtttipt^ 






for pom €>t»n Becetptjs 






' r;»*lffl«Hm-^*^*a-.'Ww*««»w - 



w aiM w iMrw i mi lawgiit 



fot pmt 0\x>n mecefptjS 





MWfcJlBTn Bl IIIJMMBMMMBBPaiill Iimill ll» IIIIWI - '^z ■,. ;.'.^w->^«-W*WWWIW¥,WWM>Mfc^«f«w^.v>.-'-1 Wi— — M>J|p ^^^ 

T|^^B^^h ^~j^MM— MilllH j|- 1 II I ■JWKIiiiiiri W III I III iMM— ■ I lim—nWIB r n- r- 1 n "^ ^ I'-i-n imiiiaii iiiiiwiwowwi - -^^^^^^^^^^^g,^^^^^^ 

I for ^our OtDtt BeceiptsJ 




5 



for pmv flDton Beceiptjs 



1! 



i 



■*i!a*i»(«a*t<^»j*«'^- - 




l^^eit&.mm»m^^-'}i^.i.^<' 5f.i»*i.s*5-^ji><w. 



for pom €>tDn IReceiptjs 



f 




wm''f^^i^^<immm 



J -^tfjmiSMiSisHafAitiieL 



t njtmnummiKmm im '■.-■'*-;i^.««iite^"'^-K^*^**«»«»( 



for ^mt €>t»n Becetpt^ 



i^S'ilMWr.y^"'S(«ig«i'.j>MKf»''J- 



s 



for pmv €>tDn BecetptjS 



if 



i 






for pom €>lim Bcceipt^ 



m 




s 


t 


— j 


m 






for pmv €)tx)n mecefptsJ 


W 




* 

\ 



\ 






\ < 



' ! 



at ^-18 

^^■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■WWMWIWMWMBWBWBWMWWWBIBBItSHiJ 




<S! 




i? 



^/i^^f;^ 




LOUIS' 

SALADS and CHAFING 
DISHES 

By LOUIS MUCKENSTURM 

This is really the work of three masters in the art, two of 
whom are noted chefs of Boston and the third the proprietor of 
a leading Bohemian resort. The receipts are new and prepared 
purposely for this book. The quantities given in each receipt are 
for a small given number of people, a feature not to be found in 
any other work of a similar nature. Printed in two colors on buff 
paper. Oblong. Bound in cartridge-paper. PricCj 50 cents 

Full cloth, side and back stamped in inks. Sl.OO 



LOUIS' 

MIXED DRINKS 

WITH HINTS FOR THE CARE AND 
SERVING OF WINES 

By LOUIS MUCKENSTURM 

In this timely and suggestive volume, the work of the above 
epicures, there is not only a list of how to make and serve 
mbced drinks, but there is an important contribution on the care 
and serving of wines which will be of service in the private fam- 
ily, as well as to the restaurateur. Uniform with above, oblong. 
Bound in cartridge-paper. Price, 50 cents 

Full cloth, side and back stamped in inks, $I.OO 




