TX 715 
.D875 
Copy 1 




LlNA IXjnijAI> 



"Slje am B^XmB brigljt 

— FOSTEB 



Out of the Blue Grass 




A BOOK OF RECIPES 

By UNA DUNLAP 



Aotboc of 
'CANDLELIGHT TEA" 

"HEART OF THE WHEAT' 



COPYRIGHT 



1910 



Preu of Transylvania Printins Company, 
Lexington, Kentucky. 






©GIA27539B 



^^^ 



B>onp9i 



ileats 




oups^ 



BEEF AND VEAL STOCK 

Five pounds of beef and a knuckle of veal, pour 
over this five quarts of cold water, let boil for five or 
six hours, or until the meat drops to pieces. Salt when 
ready to remove from the fire. Pour into an open 
vessel to cool (never cover hot meat). When thor- 
oughly cold, lift off the fat and return to the kettle. 
When heated add the whites of two eggs, well beaten. 
Strain and your stock is ready. From the time the 
meat begins to boil it should be frequently skimmed. 



CHICKEN AND VEAL STOCK 

To one chicken and a knuckle of veal add four 
quarts of cold water. Boil slowly for six hours, skim- 
ming frequently. The chicken should be cut apart 
and the bones cracked. When chicken and veal drop 
to pieces, treat it the same as beef stock, removing fat, 
cleaning, etc. 

9 



Out of the Blue Grass 

BOUILLON 
Six pounds of beef, one soup bone and knuckle of 
veal. Pour over this three quarts of water, let it sim- 
mer slowly until all the strength is extracted from the 
meat. This will require five to six hours. Then put 
in open vessel to cool. When thoroughly cool, lift 
off fat, strain and return to kettle. Again boil and 
season with two onions, two stalks of celery, a few 
cloves. Strain and clear with white of an egg. If 
there is more than twelve cupsful, reduce it by boiling 
to that quantity. 



OX TAIL SOUP 

Three ox tails, have your butcher divide them at 
the joints. Soak over night in salt water. Put them 
in a soup kettle with one gallon of water, cover closely, 
and simmer for four or five hours. Then add two 
onions, two carrots, two turnips, a stalk of celery and 
a few leaves of parsley, all chopped fine. Boil until 
the vegetable are well cooked, take out the ox tails 
and run soup through a colander. Thicken with one 
tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a cup of 
cream. Return the oxtails to soup kettle and keep 
hot. Serve with a joint to each person and small 
cubes of toast. 

10 



Soups 
TURTLE SOUP 



Boil two green turtles, that have been dressed the 
day before, in four gallons of water. When thor- 
oughly done, lift out and bone them, then return to 
the kettle and continue to make soup as mock turtle. 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP 
This soup takes from seven to eight hours to pre- 
pare. To not more than four gallons of water, use 
one calf's head and small knuckle of veal. Be care- 
ful to cover with this amount of water, so that it may 
not be necessary to replenish it. Let it boil slowly, 
skimming frequently. As soon as scum ceases to rise, 
add four potatoes, two onions, six tomatoes, a few 
leaves of parsley, corn and salt and pepper to taste, 
also a touch of cinnamon, cloves and a dash of sherry 
wine. Thicken with browned flour. Cut a lemon in 
small disks, not removing skin. Throw them in the 
soup, with the chopped veal and meat from head, 
just before serving. Slice several hard boiled eggs, 
place in plates and pour soup over them. When 
properly made, this soup can not be told from genuine 
turtle soup. 

11 



Out of the Blue Grass 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

Use beef stock, adding one quart of water to a 
quart of stock. Salt to taste, and always a tiny touch 
of sugar. A small amount of the following vegetables 
chopped fine: Potatoes, corn, tomatoes, cabbage, car- 
rot, onion, ochra and celery. When vegetables are 
thoroughly done, thicken with a cup of cream, into 
which has been rubbed a tablespoonful of flour. Flavor 
with kitchen boquet. 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Take about four good stalks of celery, cut in small 
pieces to boil in enough water to cover it. Then pro- 
ceed as receipt for cream of asparagus soup. 



TOMATO SOUP 

Select firm, but ripe, tomatoes, pour boiling water 
over them and remove skins. Place in a soup kettle. 
Cover with water and boil until thoroughly done. Put 
all through a colander, return to the fire and season 
with one pint of soup stock, salt and cayenne to taste. 
12 



Soups 
OYSTER SOUP 

Take one quart of select oysters, put in colander, re- 
move all pieces of shell and wash thoroughly. Pour 
into a kettle one-half gallon of fresh milk, add to this 
butter size of an egg, salt and touch of cayenne pep- 
per. When milk is boiling drop in the oysters. Make 
smooth one tablespoonful of flour with a cup of rich 
cream. Stir this in the soup. Serve as soon as the 
oysters curl. 



CHICKEN GUMBO 

Fry one large chicken, following receipts for Ken- 
tucky fried chicken. Fry one slice of ham and cut 
in small pieces. Select four large onions, cut fine and 
fry a light brown. Place all in soup kettle, cover 
with one gallon of water and let boil slowly. Have 
ready and add to it at once six large tomatoes cut 
line, three dozen tender ochra pods cut thin and a 
quart of fresh tender corn. Gumbo must boil slowly 
for six hours. Serve very hot in soup bowls with large 
spoonful of rice in center. Season with salt and 
cayenne. 

13 



Out of the Blue Grass 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Boil three bunches of tender asparagus in just 
enough water to keep it covered. When thoroughly 
done lift out the asparagus and press through water 
in which it has been boiled. There should be about 
a quart of water. Add to this one quart of rich milk, 
one pint of rich cream and two tablespoonsful of but- 
ter. Mix two tablespoonsful of flour with sufficient 
milk to make a smooth paste, pour into the hot soup 
to thicken. Season with salt and cayenne pepper. 

BISQUE OR MOCK OYSTER 

Take one can of tomatoes, put through colander, 
adding one-fourth of a tablespoonful of soda. Have in 
soup kettle two quarts of rich milk, seasoned with a 
liberal amount of butter and salt and cayenne pepper 
to taste. When boiling hot, add tomatoes. Thicken 
with one heaping tablespoonful of flour made into a 
smooth paste or the flour can be rubbed into the butter. 

NOODLE SOUP 

Soup stock with a very few chopped tomatoes and 
a teaspoonful of onion juice. The noodles can be 
cooked in the soup or in clear water and served with it. 
14 



Soups 

POTATO SOUP 

To two quarts of clear beef stock add seven or 
eight potatoes, that have been boiled and put through 
a potato press, or colander, add to this one teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice, salt, cayenne pepper and cup of 
cream. Serve with cubes of toasted bread. 



HOW TO COOK RICE 

Have in large kettle two gallons of boiling water^ 
Wash rice and pour into the water, adding salt. The 
water must never be allowed to cease boiling. In 
twenty-five minutes the rice will be done and every 
grain separate. Pour in colander, shake out water. 
This is the only way rice should ever be cooked, either 
to be used in soup or otherwise. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP 

Make a dough of two eggs lightely beaten, a tea- 
spoonful of salt and flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Roll into a very thin sheet, dredge with flour to keep 
from sticking. When very dry roll as for jelly cake 
and shave down in small pieces, just as you would 
for slaw. Drop in soup and boil for twenty minutes 
or boil in clear water and serve with soup. 
15 



Out of the Blue Grass 

CHICKEN SOUP 

Cut chicken as for frying, place in soup ket- 
tle, and cover with three quarts of water, season with 
salt and cayenne. When chicken is dropping to pieces, 
lift out of kettle and cut in small pieces. Add to this 
broth one cup of cream and if the chicken happens 
not to be a fat one, drop in a tablespoonful of butter. 
Thicken with a spoonful of flour rubbed into the but- 
ter. Return chicken to soup kettle and serve very 
hot with rice, cooked as above receipt, serve with 
reception wafers. 



CREAM OF PEA SOUP 

To two cans of green peas, put through a potato 
presser, add two quarts of milk and one of cream. 
Rub into a smooth paste two tablespoonsful of flour 
and two of butter. Stir this into the soup, until 
smooth and creamy, season with salt and cayenne. 
Serve with a spoonful of whipped cream on each 
plate. A touch of green vegetable coloring will add 
greatly to the beauty of the soup. 

16 



Soups 

BEAN PUREE 

Boil one quart of navy beans until perfectly tender, 
press through a colander. Add to this one quart 
of beef stock and a quart of milk. Rub together two 
tablespoonsful of flour and two of butter. Stir slowly 
into the soup. Serve with small squares of toast that 
have been rolled in grated cheese and put in a hot 
oven long enough to melt cheese. 



CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP 

Cut chicken as for frying, place in soup kettle, boil 
until tender, but barely keep covered with water. 
When chicken is thoroughly done cut from the bones. 
Add two quarters of milk and one pint of cream to the 
chicken broth. Rub together two tablespoonsful of 
flour with one of butter. Stir this into the soup and 
put back chicken. Serve with rice. Season with salt 
and cayenne. 

17 



Out of the Blue Grass 

QUICK VEGETABLE SOUP 

Buy the shank, usually called the soup bone. Place 
in kettle at breakfast time with a gallon of water, 
boil hard until eleven o'clock. Have chopped a 
variety of vegetables, not forgetting ochra and toma- 
toes, add these to the boiling broth. Let cook slowly 
for three hours. Moisten one tablespoonful of flour 
with milk or cream and thicken just before serving. 
Season with kitchen boquet. 



18 



Mtm 




eate 



MOCK DUCK 

Select pork tenderloins of uniform size, split care- 
fully, not cutting through, flatten out as for a steak. 
Make a dressing of stale or toasted bread, fine chopped 
celery and onions. Soften dressing with melted butter, 
season with pepper and salt. Spread dressing on meat 
and roll same as jelly roll. Fasten together with wooden 
toothpicks or wrap with fine twine. Place in baking 
pan, sift a very little flour over them, adding a large 
piece of butter to be pressed on each. Pour over 
them about a pint of water. Cook one hour. Re- 
move twine or toothpicks before taking to the table. 
Thicken the gravy with slightly browned flour. In 
serving they should be cut as you would a jelly roll. 

21 



Out of the Blue Grass 



KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN 

Select fat yellow chickens, never the blue, sickly 
looking ones. Begin by cutting off the drum sticks, 
then the thighs. Take off wings next. Separate back 
from breast. If the chicken is nearly grown cut back 
in two pieces, also divide breast by cutting length- 
wise. Let stand in cold salt water for five minutes 
(never longer), place in a covered dish and put in 
ice-box until ready to fry. Then salt and peper each 
piece of chicken separately, roll in flour and fry in 
deep fat. Place your chicken in the fat, then cover 
lightly, and not cook too fast, but slowly, so as to 
have very done, but not hard. By keeping it cov- 
ered the steam prevents its frying hard, and at the 
same time cooks more thoroughly. When all the 
chicken has been fried pour off about three table- 
spoonsful of the lard you have used for frying. Put 
this in a fresh frying pan, mix into it two tablespoonsful 
of flour and salt; when hot, but not brown, pour over 
it one quart or more of fresh milk or cream, stirring 
briskly so as to have your gravy smooth. A dash of 
cayenne or white pepper, salt and a few parsley leaves 
chopped fine. 



22 



Meats 

SADDLE OF VENISON 

Venison should be parboiled for thirty minutes if 
not young and tender, to take away the strong taste. 
Place it in a baking pan, dredge it over with flour, 
salt and pepper, put a half-gallon of water in the pan 
and half-pound of butter. Cook slowly and keep 
covered, basting frequently. When about half-done, 
turn into the gravy a glass of currant jelly, smd a cup 
of sherry. Commence basting with the melted jelly, 
as it adds greatly to the flavor of the meat and also 
makes it a beautiful brown. Before serving thicken 
the gravy with browned flour and have all very hot. 



VENISON STEAKS 

Broil on open broiler, over red coals. When suffi- 
ciently done, place on hot platter and pour over them 
melted butter, season with salt and pepper. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. 



STUFFED STEAK 

Same as mock duck, only use the tender side of the 
round of beef. Serve with brown gravy. 
23 



Out of the Blue Grass 

BROILED BEEF STEAK 

The only steaks one should attempt to broil are 
the porter-house, sirloin and club steaks. Place steak 
un open broiler over red coals, turning often. When 
sufficiently done, place on hot platter, pour over it 
melted butter, season with pepper and salt. 



BROILED STEAK NO. 2 

Cut steak around edges to keep from curling. Take 
some small pieces of fat and put in a very hot skillet, 
put in your steak. Turn from side to side quite fre- 
quently. Place on hot platter, pour over it melted 
butter, with salt and pepper. 



BAKED STEAK 

A sirloin steak about two inches thick is the best 
for baking. Place in baking pan, with a very little 
water and half an onion. Baste same as a roast. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Thicken and throw 
in a few French mushrooms. Serve very hot. 
24 



Meats 
STEAK AND ONIONS 

Peel and slice six large onions. Have equal parts 
of lard in a frying pan. When hot stir in the onions, 
leaving only long enough to get tender, and a light 
brown. Broil steak by No. 1 receipt, place on hot 
platter, pour over melted butter, season with salt and 
pepper. Pile onions on tops of steak when ready to 
serve. 



CALF'S LIVER 

Slice liver very thin, salt and pepper, roll in flour, 
fry slowly, keeping top on skillet. When thoroughly 
done and browned, serve with a piece of crisp bacon 
on each slice of liver. 



ROAST OF LAMB 

Wash the roast carefully, not failing to remove the 
leaf fat or tallow. Salt and pepper, and rub well 
with butter and flour. Place in baking pan, keep 
covered, and baste frequently. When half done put 
tablespoonful of vinegar in gravy. Serve with mint 
sauce or mint ice. 

25 



Out of the Blue Grass 

MINT SAUCE 

Thoroughly dissolve one-half cup of granulated 
sugar in one-half cup of vinegar, add half-cup of water 
and then bruised mint leaves. Drop into this one 
heaping teaspoonful of melted butter. Serve hot or 
cold, as may be desired. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON 

Put the mutton on in hot water, add salt. Boil 
three hours. Boil six eggs hard. Take out a pint 
of the mutton broth, add to it a pint of cream, let 
come to a boil, thicken with two tablespoonsful of flour, 
in which has been rubbed one of butter. Serve mut- 
ton on hot platter, pour over the white sauce. Open 
eggs, grate yellows over the sauce, mince whites and 
place over the yellows. 



ROAST OF PORK 

Wash the roast carefully, scar the skin crosswise, 
salt and pepper it well. Place in baking pan with 
very little water, baste frequently. Cook thoroughly, 
skim grease from gravy and thicken with browned 
flour. 

26 



Meats 

VEAL CUTLETS 

Trim the cutlets, gash the edges to keep them from 
curling, salt, pepper, dip in beaten eggs and then roll 
in cracker meat. Fry in hot lard until brown and 
crisp. Pour into the skillet a tea-cup of water, being 
careful not to pour over the cutlets, but at the side. 
Cover and put back on the stove to simmer for an 
hour. Veal is the most difficult of all meats to cook, 
and can only be done in this way. When you are 
ready to serve the cutlets make cream gravy, same as 
for fried chicken. 



BOILED AND BAKED HAM 

Always soak a ham over night. Wash carefully, 
put in a boiler, skin side down. Cover well with water, 
adding a cup of vinegar and one of brown sugar. 
When sufficiently cooked take out, skim and let cool. 
Beat two eggs light, add one-half cup of brown sugar| 
two teaspoonsful of ground cinnamon and one-fourth 
teaspoon of ground cloves. Stir into this mixture one 
cup of cracker meal. Mix all into a stiff paste and 
cover your ham. Bake in slow oven until very brown, 
but be careful not to scorch. 
27 



Out of the Blue Grass 

PORK SCRABBLE 

Boil pork until thoroughly cooked, take from the 
pot, remove all pieces of bone and chop fine. Put 
back into the water in which it was boiled, adding 
salt to taste. Sift meal and stir in slowly, it must be 
thick like mush. When done pour into square tins, 
let get cold, cut in slices, roll in flour and fry. This 
is a delicious breakfast dish. 



BRAINS 

Hog and calf brains are cooked the same way. 
tirst, wash and pick out little particles of bone or 
membrane. Boil in salt water, pour off water, add 
well beaten eggs, and a lump of butter. Stir briskly as 
you would scrambled eggs. When they begin to 
look dry they are sufficiently cooked. Serve on hot 
platter with drawn butter. 



FRIED SAUSAGE 

To one quart of sausage meat add one cup of 
cracker crumbs. Salt and a touch of cayenne. Mix 
thoroughly, make into small cakes, roll in cracker 
crumbs and fry. No lard is needed. 
28 



Meats 
VEAL LOAF 

Three pounds of chopped veal, one pound of 
-chopped pickled pork, one tea-cup of powdered 
crackers, two well beaten eggs, salt, pepper, half-tea- 
cup of chopped onion, a salt spoon half full of ground 
cloves and allspice. Knead all together, adding cup 
of milk. Make into the form of a loaf. Cover with 
cracker crumbs, put bits of butter here and there over 
it. Bake in pan with cup of water for two hours, bast- 
ing frequently. 



MOCK TERRAPIN 

Take the dark meat of cold roast fowl and cut into 
small, irregular pieces. Make a rich cream dressing, 
allowing a half-pint of milk to a tablespoonful of butter 
and one of browned flour, stirred together over the fire 
until it thickens, season highly with salt, cayenne pep- 
per, a touch of mace and beat in the yolk of an egg. 
Add the meat and cook until meat is good and hot. 
When done and just before taking from the fire, add 
a wine glass of sherry and two hard boiled eggs 
chopped fine. 

29 



Out of the Blue Grass 

ROAST BEEF 

Rib or sirloin roasts are more generally used, and 
are the best. Do not wash, but wipe with a cloth, 
salt, pepper and dredge with Rour. Place in a hot 
roasting pan with one onion, and a very little water. 
Cook according to taste, rare or well done. Baste 
frequently. Serve on hot platter, either with plain 
gravy or thickened with browned flower. 

FILLET OF BEEF 

Your butcher will cut out the fillet for you and 
run in the salt pork. Lard over top, bake in moderate 
oven, basting frequently with butter and water, which 
must be in baking pan. Cook one hour. Thicken 
the gravy and season with sherry and drop in a can 
of button mushrooms. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Separate chicken as for frying. Boil in salt water, 
when thoroughly done thicken the stock with butter 
and flour rubbed together. Line a pudding mould 
with delicate pie paste, put inside your chicken and 
gravy. Cover with upper crust and bake an even 
brown in a moderate oven. 

30 



Meats 
ROAST TURKEY 

Select a young gobbler, rub with salt and butter in- 
side and out. Bake in large covered pan for thirty 
minutes. Remove and fill with a dressing made 
from lightly browned bread, onions and celery cut 
fine, salt and pepper. Moisten with butter and a 
small amount of the boiling fiquor. Fill turkey with 
this dressing and bake until thoroughly done, basting 
frequently. 

CREME DE VOLAILLE 

After removing bones and skin of a boiled chicken, 
put the meat through a grinder or chop fine. Have 
boiling in a double sauce-pan one quart of milk, stir into 
this two well beaten eggs, and a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and one of flour rubbed together. It must not be 
allowed to thicken, but only creamy. Add to the 
chicken one cup of bread crumbs, salt, cayenne pep- 
per and one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Mix all to- 
gether and pour into one large greased mould, or indi- 
vidual moulds. Place in deep pan with water sur- 
rounding them, cover so that it may not brown, but 
congeal. Sweetbreads or mushrooms can be added 
to the chicken if desired. When solid turn out and 
cover with a heavy cream sauce. 

31 



Out of the Blue Grass 

BAKED CHICKEN 

Bake a tender chicken for thirty minutes in cov- 
ered pan, after having rubbed it with butter and 
dredged Hghtly with flour. Have ready a dressing 
made from lightly toasted bread, onion and celery 
cut fine. Melted butter to soften it, salt and pepper. 
Remove chicken from pan and fill with this dressing. 
Return to the oven and bake slowly until perfectly 
done. Baste frequently. 



FRIED OYSTERS 

Select large oysters, drain them and place on a 
board, drying each one carefully with a cloth. Have 
some well beaten eggs, to which add a small amount 
of milk. Salt and pepper oysters. Dip them separately, 
first in the egg, then in cracker meal, again in egg, 
then back to the cracker meal. Have a good sized 
frying pan half full of equal parts of butter and lard. 
When lard is bubbling hot place oysters in, without al- 
lowing them to touch one another. Fry a light 
brown and crisp, place in colander, which must be in 
the warmer, allow to drain. Serve very hot. 
32 



Meats 



STUFFED LOBSTER 

Boil a Kve lobster in salt water until done. Take 
meat carefully out of the shell and chop fine. Make a 
rich sauce, by rubbing together two teaspoonsful of 
flour and two of butter. Stir this into a pint of boiling 
cream, with two well beaten eggs, season with salt, 
cayenne pepper, a dash of sherry and a spoonful of 
lemon juice. When thick and very smooth pour over 
the lobster meat, fill the carefully cleaned lobster shell, 
cover the mixture with cracker dust and brown in 
quick oven. 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG 

Pick all the meat from the lobster, cut in small 
pieces. Have in double boiler half cup of cream into 
which has been beaten the yolks of two eggs. Rub 
together one tablespoonful of butter with a teaspoonful 
of flour. Stir this into the cream and eggs, cook until 
it thickens, season with salt, cayenne pepper and half- 
cup of sherry, pour all over the lobster and cook for 
five minutes. 

33 



Out op the Blue Grass 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

This pudding is to be baked with beef, veal or pork. 
Stir gradually four tablespoonsful of flour into a pint 
of milk, adding a little salt. Beat four eggs very light 
and mix with the milk and flour. See that the batter 
is perfectly smooth. Pour into pan with beef roast. 
It will float on top of gravy and cook in thirty minutes. 
Slice in squares and serve with the roast. 



CURRY OF ROAST BEEF 

Cut in dice, some thick slices of cold roast beef. 
Chop an onion and fry in butter, add two cupsful of 
beef stock, one tablespoonful of flour and one of 
curry powder. Rub smooth, then put in the cubes 
of beef, let simmer until it thickens. Serve steaming 
hot on squares of toast. 



CHESTNUT DRESSING FOR FOWLS 

Take lightly toasted bread crumbs, add chopped 
boiled chestnuts, a few currants, a touch of onion and 
celery, plenty of butter and hot water if needed to 
moisten. 

34 



Meats 

DEVILED CRAB 

Open boiled crabs very carefully, so as not to break 
shells. Remove the uneatable parts. Take out v^hite 
meat from body and claws. Reserve the yellow curd 
and coral. Chop fine and season with butter, cayenne, 
a touch of lemon juice. Put back in shells, cover with 
cracker dust and melted butter, bake until brown. 
Serve hot. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

Parboil sweetbreads in salt water, when thoroughly 
cooked, throw in cold water. When cool enough to 
handle separate from the membrane. Make a rich 
cream sauce, seasoned with salt, cayenne and sherry if 
desired. Turn sweetbreads into the sauce and serve 
very hot on buttered toast. 

BROILED QUAIL 

Split the quail down the back. Season with salt 
and pepper. Place in a covered baking pan, dredge 
with flour and lay a generous slice of butter on each 
quail. Pour in pan water enough to make gravy for 
basting. When birds are about half done, turn in 
glass of currant jelly. Bake a light brown, but not dry. 
Serve on toast. 

35 



Out of the Blue Grass 

STUFFED QUAIL 

Have quail prepared same as chicken or turkey. 
Use a dressing of bread crumbs chopped, onion and 
celery, or a chestnut dressing, if preferred. After quails 
have been filled with the dressing and feet tied to- 
gether, place in covered baking pan with butter, water 
and currant jelly. Baste frequently. 



PLANKED FISH 

Have plank well buttered, salt and pepper fish, place 
on plank, dredge with flour and baste with melted but- 
ter. When fish is cooked garnish out to the edges 
of plank with mashed potatoes, squeezed through an 
icing bag. Put back in oven for potatoes to bake a 
light brown. Serve on plank very hot, with thin slices 
of lemon and parsley. 

BROILED FISH 

Butter shallow stove pan. Salt fish with flour, place 
in pan with pint of water, and plenty of butter, baste 
every few minutes. When cooked lift from pan, place 
on hot dish, garnish with lemon and parsley. Serve 
with Tartare sauce. 

36 



Meats 

CREAM SAUCE 

Have boiling in a double boiler one pint of cream. 
Rub together two tablespoonsful of flour and one of 
butter. Add slowly to the hot cream and keep stirring 
until your sauce is heavy, season with salt and cayenne 
pepper. 



TARTARE SAUCE 

Add to mayonnaise dressing chopped olives and 
capers, also some very finely chopped sour pickle. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Grind the meat of one chicken that has been par- 
boiled. Add to this a few chopped sweetbreads or 
mushrooms. Make a heavy white sauce of a pint of 
milk or cream, adding one cup of bread crumbs. Stir 
in ground chicken, put in ice-box to thoroughly chill. 
Thirty minutes before serving mould mixture into cone- 
shaped croquettes, roll in egg and cracker meal. Fry 
in deep fat, which must be very hot. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

37 



Out of the Blue Grass 

BEEF TENDERLOIN WITH CRUST 

Roast a well larded tenderloin in a hot oven thirty 
minutes, then cover it with a rich crust and return to 
the oven until the crust is well baked. Serve with 
mushroom sauce, cut through crust gently and through 
the meat, thus serving crust and meat together. 



FISH LOAF 

Grind or chop fine one quart of boiled fish ( white fish 
preferred). Place on the stove a pint of milk in double 
boiler, add two well beaten eggs and one tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed into one of butter. When it begins to 
thicken pour over chopped fish. Stir in one cup of 
bread crumbs, salt, cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice. Bake in pan with open center. It 
must be baked in a slow oven and in a pan surrounded 
by water. Turn out on large platter, fill center with 
potatoes that have been cut in small balls and boiled 
in salted water. Serve with a heavy cream sauce 
poured over all. Garnish with parsley. 



38 



U^getabte 




egetatiles; 



POTATO APPLES 

To one quart of mashed potatoes add two table- 
spoonsful of butter, six tablespoonsful of grated cheese, 
salt and cayenne. Beat yolks of four eggs with four 
tablespoonsful of cream, add this to the mixture and 
put in ice-box to cool. Shape like an apple, dip in 
egg and then roll in cracker crumbs. Fry in deep grease 
in wire basket. Let stay in only long enough to brown 
lightly. Serve with stem of parsley, and as soon as 
they are fried, otherwise they may fall. 



CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 



Boil sweet potatoes until perfectly done, cut in oblong 
slices, place in baking dish, cover with sugar and but- 
ter. Bake until a light brown. 
41 



Out of the Blue Grass 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

Select a loose head of cabbage, wash thoroughly, 
very carefully open the leaves, guard against breaking 
them. Beginning in heart of the cabbage, place be- 
tween leaves the very best seasoned sausage meat, fill 
the entire head in this way, leaving no empty spaces. 
Have a square of cheese cloth, put cabbage into it, 
fastening it tight around the cabbage, so that none of 
the sausage can lose out. Boil hard for one hour. 
Serve very hot, on platter, with white sauce. 



CABBAGE PUDDING 

Chop cabbage as for slaw, boil in salt water. When 
thoroughly cooked put in colander to drain. When 
free from all water, put layer of cabbage in pudding 
dish, dots of butter and cayenne pepper and a thin 
layer of toasted bread crumbs, then alternate layers 
of cabbage and bread crumbs until dish is filled. Fin- 
ish with the crumbs and liberal amount of butter on 
top. Pour into dish one cup of cream. Bake for 
twenty minutes. 

42 



Vegetables 
CABBAGE AND BACON 

Boil for two or three hours a five-inch square of 
sweet bacon. Have heads of fresh cabbage quartered, 
and in cold water. Shake out all water and put in 
with bacon, allowing it to boil an hour and a half. 
The secret of good boiled cabbage is to have bacon 
boiled perfectly tender before the cabbage is added. 

POTATO SNOW 

For this purpose use potatoes that are white and 
mealy. Boil them carefully and when they are done, 
pour off the water, set on back of stove until quite 
dry. Then put through a vegetable presser into the 
dish on which they are to be served. Pour melted 
butter over top, but do not disturb the heap of pota- 
toes, or the flakes will fall and flatten. All potatoes 
should be boiled in salt water. 

CALE— CANNON 

Boil separately some potatoes and chopped cabbage. 
When done drain all water from the cabbage. Mash 
the potatoes or chop fine, then mix gradually the cab- 
bage and potatoes, adding butter, salt, cayenne pepper. 
Cale — cannon is served with corned beef. 
43 



Out of the Blue Grass 

CAULIFLOWER 

Remove the green heavy leaves, cut the cauliflower 
in four pieces, and lay in a pan of cold water for an 
hour. Tie all together in cheese cloth before it goes 
into the pot. Boil in salt water until the stalk is thor- 
oughly tender, keeping it well covered with water. It 
will take about two hours and should be served at 
once, or it will discolor. Serve with melted butter, or 
cream sauce, to which a little grated cheese may be 
added. 

TURNIPS 

Turnips should be peeled, cut in cubes and dropped 
in cold water for an hour. Boil in salt water until per- 
fectly tender. Serve with a highly seasoned white 
sauce. Mashed potatoes are cooked the same way, 
only mashed with cream and butter. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Peel some large firm tomatoes, place in baking 
dish, cover with bread crumbs and finely chopped 
onion, season with salt, pepper, a touch of sugar and 
lump of butter. Bake in slow oven. 
44 



Vegetables 

SQUASHES OR SYMLINGS 

The green or summer squash is best when the out- 
side is just beginning to turn yellow. Peel them, take 
out the seeds and boil in salt water. When cooked 
tender, drain well, return them to the sauce-pan, mash 
and stir in a small amount of cream. Mix together one 
tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, stir this in 
and they will be thick and creamy in a few minutes. 
Serve very hot. 

FRIED EGG PLANT 

Peel egg plant carefully, slice thin and lay in salt 
water for an hour. Then take out, wipe dry and 
season v/ith pepper only. Dip in egg and cracker meal, 
fry a light brown, taking care to have them well done, 
as the least rawness renders them unpalatable. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Boil egg plant whole for an hour, when coo! 
enough to handle, split lengthwise, carefully taking out 
the inside, without marring the rind. Mash well, 
season with butter and pepper, mix in a few bread 
crumbs. Return to the shells, sprinkle top with 
crumbs and bake until brown. 
45 



Out of the Blue Grass 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Have open a can of tomatoes or fresh tomatoes 
peeled and chopped. Have frying pan hot with two 
tablespoonsfiil of butter melted, add to this two table- 
spoonsful of flour, stir until smooth. When very hot 
pour in your tomatoes, season with finely chopped 
onion, salt, pepper and touch of sugar. Let simmer 
for an hour. 



STEWED MUSHROOMS 

Wash well, peel off the skin and cut off stalks. 
Stew in porcelain kettle until done, pour into them 
rich cream, season with salt and pepper and thicken 
gravy with tablespoonful of butter and one of flour 
rubbed together. If you want a brown gravy, use the 
browned flour. 



CREAMED CELERY 

Wash and scrape it well, removing all dark spots, 
cut in pieces about half an inch long. Boil in salt 
water until tender. Serve with a rich white sauce. 
46 



Vegetables 

MACCARONI 

Break sticks of maccaroni about an inch long, soak 
for a few minutes in cold water, then boil until tender 
in salt water. Place in baking dish, with layers of 
grated cheese, butter and cream. Have top layer of 
cheese. Bake in slow oven. 

WHITE WAX BEANS 

String the beans carefully, then with a very sharp 
knife cut diagonally into very thin strips. Boil in salt 
water until very tender, drain off all the water and mix 
into them a generous amount of melted butter. Serve 
very hot. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Peel and boil potatoes in salt water, set aside to 
cool. Chop fine, seasoning with salt, pepper and a 
small amount of finely chopped onion. Fry in equal 
parts of butter and lard. Let a brown crust form on 
the bottom of frying pan, turn one-half over and lift out 
on a hot platter, so as the brown will be on both 
sides. Garnish with parsley and crisp strips of broiled 
breakfast bacon. 

47 



Out of the Blue Grass 



BROILED TOMATOES 

Peel and slice large firm tomatoes, salt, pepper and 
a touch of sugar. Dip both sides in flour and fry in 
very hot butter. Serve on buttered toast. 



FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Peel potatoes that have been selected one size, quar- 
ter and drop in cold salt water for an hour. Take 
out potatoes and dry each piece separately with cheese 
cloth. Drop in deep boiling lard and let cook until 
tender and a light brown. Sprinkle with salt before 
serving. 



CORN PUDDING 

Corn must be cut very carefully for corn pudding. 
With a sharp paring knife split the grains, then cut off 
only upper part of grain and scrape the remaining from 
the cob. Make a custard of four eggs to one quart 
of milk, season with salt and butter, stir all together 
and bake in slow oven. A tablespoonful of flour 
rubbed into the butter and then added to the milk 
often keeps the pudding from curdling, especially if 
the corn is watery and not starchy. 
48 



Vegetables 

STUFFED PEPPERS 
Cut a deep slice from stem end of peppers, boil 
the peppers for twenty minutes, filling as follows: Chop 
any cold meat you may have, but veal is the most 
desirable; to this add finely chopped and crisp break- 
fast bacon and bread crumbs. Sweetbreads and 
mushrooms are a great addition, but can be made very 
palatable without them. Grind some of the pepper 
that has been cut from the tops and add to the 
chopped meat, season with salt, pepper and cream to 
moisten or a small amount of beef or veal stock. Fill 
peppers, cover with bread crumbs and a strip of raw 
bacon across the top of each pepper. Bake in slow 
oven with water around them. 



[One copy del. to Cat. Div. 




L'BRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 486 882 



