FEVERS 
IN THE TROPICS 



EONARD ROGERS, M.D.,ERC.p.F.RC.s. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/feversintropicstOOrogeuoft 



OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



DESCRIPTION OF COLOURED FRONTISPIECE 

line I. Benign tertian parasites, first day forms showing Schiiffner's 
dots. 

„ II. Benign tertian parasites. 1 to 3, large second day forms ; 

4, large gamete form ; 5, sporulating form ; 6, sporulating 
form breaking up into separate spores. 

„ III. 1 to 4, small first day quartan parasites ; 5 to 7, second day 
forms. 

„ IV. 1 and 2, large third day forms ; 3, 5 and 6, sporulating forms ; 

4, large gamete form. 

„ V. Malignant tertian parasites. 1 to 5, small ring forms, with 

crenation of the red corpuscles and the presence of Marshall's 
dots ; 6, five ring forms in one corpuscle. 

„ VI. Malignant tertian parasites. 1, small rings ; 2 to 5, large forms 

rarely seen in the peripheral blood ; 6, sporulating form ; 
7 and 8, elongated forms in early stage of crescent forma- 
tion. 

„ VII. Malignant tertian parasites, crescent forms. 

„ VIII. Kala-azar parasites. 1 to 10, human stage, as seen in spleen 
punctiu-e blood films ; 11, undeveloped parasites in a 
poljTiuclear white corpuscle ; 12, minute forms in a spleen 
cell as commonly seen in smears made post-mortem. 

,, IX. Developmental forms of the kala-azar parasites from an acidified 
blood culture. (See Plate 4 and pp. 84-87 for description.) 



'.':.:~\ 

"."• 



m 



^^ 









^1 

a 



^^ ^ 



3 



.'fev 



^^ 



t & 



4- 



9 



dik 



■r^'^r- 


*"." 




^.^:V> 


~'^S^ 


v^^\ 



m 






V 

a 









^^> 



.Co- 
I 



^jm 



ij ^ 






hJ 



^' m 



SS:.. 



:15C.' 



.'A. 



8 












\. 



;P ^^ ** ^ 



• 2 ^ a 4- 5 •* •' 



1% ^ t*^ 1^^ 

6 7 8 1* 









,^^ 



\ 



3 



y 



# 



or-** 



^ s. 




'^^^ :♦ 



S -■ o«.- J, 



5 






\2 



10 






OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

Their Clinical and Microscopical Differentiation 
including the Milroy Lectures on Kala-Azar 



LEONARD ROGERb 

M.D., r.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., B.S., I.M.S 

Profeaaor of Pathology, Medical College, CalctUta : Fellow of the Calcutta University 
Honorary Member of the United States Society of Tropical Diseases, 
and of the Philippines Medical Society 



SECOND EDITION 



It is remarkable how entirely the most distinguished physicians of 
aU ages who have treated of this subject (fever) coincide in the 
feeling that with regard to this important class of diseases it is 
impossible, in the short life allotted to the most aged, to do any- 
thing more than to add a little knowledge to the common stock." 
Dk. Southwood Smith. 



HENRY FROWDE 
Oxford University Press 















r' 




LONDON 








HODDER & 


STOUGHTON 




Warwick Square, E.G. 




1910 









To 

My Brother Officers of the Indian Medical Service, to whom I 

AM indebted for SO MANY OPPORTUNITIES OF RESEARCH, 
THIS WORK IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED 



Preface to the Second Edition 

Advance in our knowledge of tropical diseases is so rapid at the present time 
that frequent editions of any work dealing with them are essential if the information 
is to be kept up to date. Unfortunately the official duties of the author in a dis- 
tant tropical country have made the work of revision very difficult. Under the 
circumstances it has seemed best to write an addendum containing an account 
of the most important progress made during the last two years with regard to 
fevers in the tropics. The main additions relate to sleeping sickness — on which 
a vast amount of research work by various European nations has recently been 
done — plague, blackwater fever, epidemic dropsy and unclassified fevers. Fur- 
ther experience has been recorded on the prevention of liver abscess by the 
cure of the early stage of the disease, and advantage has been taken of this 
opportunity to add an important section on amoebic abscess of the liver based 
on a large number of cases, including recent advances in its treatment. 

The author is greatly indebted to the Bulletin of the Sleeping Sickness Bureau 
for information on that subject and to Captain Greig, I.M.S., for reading the 
proofs of that section, also to Mr. J. Keogh Murphy, F.R.C.S., for again very 
kindly revising the proofs. 

He also desires to rectify an omission in the preface of the first edition, by 
acknowledging his great indebtedness to Sir William Gowers, to whose advocacy 
of shorthand he owes the slight knowledge of the subject, without which the material 
on which this work is based could not possibly have been accumulated. 



Preface 

I HAVE attempted in this work to write an original account of fevers in the 
tropics, mainly based on the notes and charts of some two thousand cases in which 
I have personally examined the blood by modem diagnostic methods. It includes 
the Milroy lectures on Kala-azar, with the clinical parts greatly ampUfied and a 
description of its early stages which have hitherto not been recognized. The fever 
which constitutes the pre-suppurative stage of amoebic abscess of the Uver, and its 
rapid cure, is also described for the first time, this method has, in the Calcutta 
European Hospital, led to a great reduction in the number of cases of abscess of 
the Uver. Sections on unclassified fevers of the tropics include descriptions of 
" seven day fever " first differentiated from malaria by the author, also the three 
day fevers recently recognized in India. Accounts of sleeping sickness and yellow 
fever have been included, at the suggestion of Professor Osier, based on the recent 
extensive investigations on those subjects. The technique and the diagnostic value 
of microscopical examinations of the blood in fevers is described, as far as it can be 
carried out in a hospital without a bacteriological laboratory. 

All the illustrations are original, and include four hourly temperature charts. 
The writer has been led by his researches to conclude that a large proportion of 
fevers in the tropics can be diagnosed within two or three days by purely cUnical 
methods. It will thus become possible in the remaining doubtful cases for a micro- 
scopical examination of the blood to be made as a matter of routine, and a clear 
idea to be got of all fever cases, whereas under ordinary conditions of work in the 
tropics time does not permit of the use of the microscope in every case. Should 
this hope be in any degree fulfilled, the work should be of value to medical men in 
the tropics, both as an aid in the early diagnosis of these very common diseases and 
to those engaged on researches on the still undifferentiated fevers of hot cUmates. 

References to the most important Hterature have been given at the end of each 



viii PREFACE 

section, arranged chronologically, so as to illustrate their history ; the evolution of 
our present knowledge and nomenclature has been traced in the introductory section, 
the practically important sub-division into long, and short fevers has been adopted, 
as a strictly scientific one is not yet possible. 

I desire to gratefully acknowledge the kindly interest and advice given me by 
Professor Osier. 

I am very much indebted to Mr. J. Keogh Murphy, F.R.C.S., for very kindfy 
revising the proofs and for many valuable suggestions. My acknowledgments are 
also due to Dr. C. R. Schofield and Miss KeUey for many of the illustrations and 
work of the charts. 



Contents 



PAGE 

HisTORiCAii Introduction : — The Evolution of our Knowledge of^Indian 
Fevers ............. 1 

Technique of the Examination of the Blood in Fevers. . . .15 



A. FEVERS OF LONG DURATION. 

I Kala-azab (Milroy Lectures amplified) . 

II Trypanosomiasis and Sleeping Sickness . 

in Typhoid Fever (Including Paratyphoid) . 

IV Indian Relapsing Fever and African Tick Fever 

V Malta or Undulant Fever .... 

VI The Pre-suppurative Stage of Amoebic Hepatitis 

VII Epidemic Dropsy ...... 

Vin Unclassified Long Fevers. .... 



IX 

X 

XI 

xn 

XIII 

XIV 

XV 



XVI 



B. FEVERS OF SHORT DURATION 

Malarial Fevers . . . . . . * 

Dengue ........ 

Plague ........ 

Yellow Fever ....... 

Heatstroke, Sunstroke and Effects of Heat . 

Unclassified Short Fevers — Seven Day Feveb — Three Day Fever 

The Incidence of Various Specific Fevers in the Tropical East : (I) Typhus. 
(II) Cebebbo-spinal Fever. (Ill) Influenza. (IV) Exanthematous 
Diseases . ........... 

Addendum containino the more Important Work published during 1908- 
1 909 — Kala-azab — Sleeping Sickness — Amoebic Hepatitis — Tropical 
LrvBB Abscess — Epidemic Dropsy — Unclassified Long Fevers — Blaok- 
Wateb Feveb — Plague .......... 

Ikdsx ............. 



31 
96 
109 
149 
161 
173 
186 
190 

197 
242 
250 
266 
280 
300 



322 



336 
419 



List of Plates 

fachto 

PAOB 

1. Coloured Plate illustrating the Parasites of Malarial Fevers and Kala-azar 

Frontispiece 

2. Principal Types of the Normal Leucocytes of the Blood . . .21 

3. Group of Sporadic Kala-azar Patients in Sylhet (Assam) . . . . • 38 

4. Two very chronic Sporadic Kala-azar Patients. ...... 45 

6. Group of Epidemic Kala-azar Patients in Assam ...... 46 

6. Dropsical type of Kala-azar produced by Cirrhosis of the Liver ... 67 

7. Stages in the Cultural Development of the Extra-corporeal Stages of the Parasites 

of Kala-azar ............ 84 

8. The Tsetse Fly and the Trypanosoma Gambiense of Sleeping Sickness in the 

Blood of a Rat 102 

9. Diagram of the Intra-vascular and Extra-corporeal Cycles of Malarial Parasite . 222 

10. Adult and Larval Forms of Anopheles (Right) and Culex (Left) . . • 223 

11. The Micrococcus MeUtensis of Malta Fever and Bacillus Pestis of Plague . .261 



List of Illustrations in the Text 



PAOB 



1. Illustrating Method of Preparing Blood Films, and the Distribution of the various 

kinds of Leucocytes in them .......•• 15 

2. Method of Diluting Serum for Widal's Test by means of Wright's Tubes . . 24 

3. Diagram I. Map illustrating the Spread of Epidemic Kala-azar in Assam . 34 

4. Diagram II. Yearly Fever District Death Rates of Assam during the Kala-azar 

Epidemic ............. 41 

6. Diagram III. Census Figures illustrating the Variations of the Population of 
Assam Districts during the three Epidemic Kala-azar Decades 

6. Diagram IV. Weekly Weight Chart of Kala-azar. Case 7 

7. Diagram V. Monthly Incidence of Malaria and Seven Day Fever . 

8. Flexible Sheathed Trocar for Siphonage of Liver Abscesses 



43 

60 

315 

389 



List of Temperature Charts 

1. Kala-azar, Six Months' Chart of Advanced Stage in a Child . facing page 

2. Kala-azar, Case followed from beginning to end . . . facing page 

3. Kala-azar, showing Double Remittent Type of Fever in Early Stage 

3a. Kala-azar, same case, showing Double Remittent Type of Fever in a Previoiis 
Attack ..........-•• 

4. Kala-azar, showing Double Continued Type in Early Stage . . . • 

5. Kala-azar, showing Low Continued Fever in Early Stage. .... 

6. Elala-azar, showing Recovery after Cancnim Oris . . . facing page 

7. Kala-azar, showing Recovering Case from beginning to end . facing page 

8. Kala-azar, showing High Continued Fever in Early Stage 

9. Kala-azar, sho^ving Double Remittent and High Continued Fever 
10. Kala-azar, showing Low Remittent Type in Early Stage . 
IL Kala-azar, showing Low Continued Fever in Early Stage 

12. Typhoid, Prolonged Case, ending fatally on the Forty-fifth Day 

13. Typhoid with Rapid Liitial Rise of Temperature 

14. Typhoid with Classical Step-like Rise of Temperature 

15. Typhoid with Typical High Continued Type of Fever 

16. Typhoid with High Remittent Type of Fever terminating fatally 

17. Typhoid with Low Remittent Type of Fever ruiming a Mild Course 

18. Typhoid of a very Mild Type, with Intermittent Type of Pyrexia 

19. Typhoid with Irregular Paroxysms of Fever during Convalescence 

20. Typhoid running a Mild Remittent Course .... 

21. Typhoid of an Abortive Nature ...... 

22. Typhoid diagnosed by Blood Examinations, although admitted as Liver Abscess 

23. Typhoid with Low Remittent Temperature, but complicated by Thrombosis 

24. Typhoid with Low Remittent and Intermittent Pyrexia, diagnose verified by 

cultivating the Bacillus from the Vein Blood ..... 

26. Relapsing Fever with Two Recurrences from a -Patient in Lahore 
26. Malta Fever, from a Case at Lahore in the Punjab . . . 

zii 



PAGE 

54 
56 
56 

56 

56 

58 

58 

59 

61 

62 

63 

63 

116 

116 

117 

118 

120 

120 

121 

123 

124 

125 

129 

135 

142 
150 
165 



LIST OF TEMPERATURE CHARTS xiil 

PAGE 

27. Amoebic Hepatitis with Dysentery, cured by Ipecacuanha Treatment . .174 

28. Amoebic Hepatitis with Dysentery, cured by Ipecacuanha Treatment after Aspira- 

tion for Liver Abscess with Negative Result . . . . . .176 

29. Amoebic Hepatitis without Dysentery, treated with Ipecacuanha . .178" 

30. Acute Amoebic Hepatitis without Dysentery, rapidly cured with Ipecacuanha . 179 

31. Amoebic Hepatitis without Dysentery, treated with Ipecacuanha and Anti-strep- 

tococctis Senim ............ 180 

32. Acute Amoebic Hepatitis, cured by Ipecacuanha . . . . .* . 180 

33. Chronic Fever without symptoms of Dysentery or Hepatitis, but with Leucocytosis, 

cured by Ipecacuanha after Negative Aspiration for Liver Abscess 181 

34. Chronic Fever with Leucocytosis, cured with Ipecacuanha . . . .182 

35. Chronic Fever without signs of Dysentery or Liver Abscess, cvu-ed by Ipecacuanha . 183 

36. MaUgnant Tertian Malaria, showing Typical Temperature Curve . . 208 

37. Malignant Tertian Malaria, showing one Typical and one Abortive Paroxysm . 209 

38. Malignant Tertian Malaria with decline of the Paroxysms under Quinine . . 209 

39. Malignant Tertian Malaria with specially marked Remission in the Course of the 

Paroxysm . . . . ... . . 210 

40. Severe MaKgnant Tertian Malaria, showing Four Days' Remittent Fever under 

Quinine Treatment ........... 210 

41. MaUgnant Tertian Malaria with Quotidian Rises of Temperature . .211 

42. MaUgnant Tertian Malaria with Irregular Fever, ending fatally . . .211 

43. Single Benign Tertian Malaria with Typical Chart. . . . .213 

44. Double Benign Tertian Malaria with Typical Chart. . . . .214 

45. Double Benign Tertian yielding rapidly to Quinine . . . . . .214 

46. Benign Tertian Malaria, showing Common Form of a Single Incomplete Paroxysm, 

yielding rapidly to Quinine ......... 215 

47. Severe Double Benign Tertian Malaria with Remittent Fever .215 

48. Single Quartan Malaria with Classical Text-book Chart . .216 

49. Double Quartan Malaria yielding rapidly to Quinine ..... 217 

50. Very severe Malignant Tertian Malaria with High Remittent Fever, yielding rapidly 

to an Intravenous Injection of Quinine ....... 227 

51. Severe Malignant Tertian Malaria in a Child requiring relatively large amount of 

Quinine to control it .......... • 231 

52. MaUgnant Tertian Malaria, running a Prolonged Course under Hypodermic Injec- 

tions of Quinine . ........... 232 

63. Dengue, Ordinary Course of the Temperature ....... 246 



XIV 



LIST OF TEMPERATURE CHARTS 



PAGE 

64. Dengue, showing the rapidly Remittent Type of the Pyrexia and a slight Secondary 

Rise 246 

66. Dengue of a Severe Relapsing Form ........ 246 

66. Plague, Fatal Bubonic Case in an European ....... 254 

67. Plague, Fatal Bubonic Case, showing Temporary Remission shortly before Death . 255 

68. Plague, Recovering Bubonic Case with Suppuration ...... 255 

69. Plague, Mild Bubonic Cases recovering without Suppuration . . . .256 

60. Septicaemic Type of Plague . . . . . . . . . .257 

61. Pneumonic Type of Plague .......... 258 

62. Yellow Fever, Severe Case, with well-marked Remission on the Third Day . 271 

63. Yellow Fever, Moderately Severe Case . . . . . . .271 

64. Heatstroke, showing Hyperpyrexia and Secondary Low Fever .... 296 

65. Heatstroke, with Recovery from a Temperature of 109° F. . . . . 296 

66. Seven Day Fever, showing Typical Saddle-back Temperature Curve . . . 304 

67. Seven Day Fever, Two Hour Chart, showing continued Nature Tj^e of Pyrexia 306 

68. Seven Day Fever, showing deep Saddle-back Type . . . . . . 306 

69. Seven Day Fever with Complete Remission to Normal . . . . . 306 

70. Seven Day Fever, showing High Continued Typhoid-like Type. . . , 306 

307 
307 
308 
309 
309 
319 
319 
319 
328 
328 
329 
329 

390 



Seven Day Fever, showing deep Saddle-back Type .... 

Seven Day Fever with Complete Remission to Normal 

Seven Day Fever, showing High Continued Typhoid-like Type. 

71. Seven Day Fever simulating Typhoid at first ..... 

72. Seven Day Fever with Absence of Terminal Rise .... 

73. Seven Day Fever with Prolonged Terminal Rise .... 

74. Seven Day Fever admitted shortly before Typical Terminal Rise 

76. Seven Day Fever admitted about the beguining of the Terminal Rise 
76. Three Day Fever 
Three Day Fever 



77 
78 
79 
80, 
81, 
82, 
83, 



Three Day Fever 

Influenza 

Influenza 

Influenza 

Influenza complicated by Pneumonia 

Temperature Chart of First Case of Liver Abscess 
Injection of Quinine ..... 



treated by Siphonagi 



and 



List of Tables 

PAGE 

I. Da Costa's Classification of the Leucocytes ia Healthy Blood . .21 

II. The Types of Fever in various Stages of Kala-azar ..... 62 

III. Enlargement of Liver and Spleen at different Stages of Kala-azar . 66 

IV. The Red Corpuscles in Kala-azar ........ 68 

v. A. Leucocyte counts in Sporadic cases of Kala-azar verified by Spleen 

Puncture ............ 69 

B. Leucocyte counts in Sporadic Kala-azar of various Duration . . . 72 

VI. The Complications of Kala-azar . . . . .76 

VII. Leucocyte counts in Sleeping Sickness and Trypanosomiasis . . . 104 

VIII. The Incidence of Typhoid Fever among European immigrants to India .111 

IX. Age Incidence of Typhoid in Indian born Europeans compared with that 

of Temperate Climates . . . . . . . .111 

X. The Seasonal Incidence of Typhoid in India .113 

XI. Dtu-ation of Typhoid in the Tropics . . . . .114 

XII. The Frequency of the different Types of the Temperature Curve in Typhoid . 119 

XIII. Pulse Rates in Typhoid, with a Temperature rising to 103° or over . .127 

XIV. Lung Complications of Typhoid m the Tropics . . . . . .128 

XV. The Bowels in Typhoid in the Tropics 130 

XVI. Serum Reactions in Typhoid . . . . . . .138 

XVII. Differential Leucocyte count in Typhoid . .140 

XVIII. Monthly Prevalence Ratio per thousand strength of Malta Fever, expressed in 

Terms of Annual Ratio ..... .... 171 

XIX. Blood counts and Ipecacuanha Treatment of Pre-suppurative Amoebic Hepa- 
titis 175 

XX. Monthly Incidence of Different Forms of Malarial Fever in India . .198 

XXI. Rigors in Malarial Fevers .......... 205 

XXII. Dxiration of Fever after taking Quinine . . . . . .218 



XVI 



LIST OF TABLES 



PAOB 

XXIII, Number of Malarial Parasites found ....... 220 

XXIV. Large Mononuclear Increase in Malaria ....... 226 

XXV. Yearly Provincial Deaths from Plague in India . . .261 

XXVI. Monthly Incidence of Heatstroke in India ...... 286 

XXVII. Degrees of Temperature and Moisture associated with Heatstroke . . 286 

XXVin. Hour of Onset of Heatstroke 288 

XXIX. Duration of the Pyrexia in Seven Day Fever . . . . .310 

XXX. Differential Leucocyte count in Seven Day Fever. . . . .311 

XXXI. Differences between Dengue and Seven Day Fever .... 316 

XXXII. Monthly Incidence of Influenza in Calcutta . . . . . 326 

XXXIII. Monthly Prevalence of the Exanthemata in Europeans in Calcutta . 330 

XXXIV. The Leucopoenia of Kala-azar in relation to the degree of Anaemia . 336 
XXXV. Age, Race, and Sex Incidence of Tropical Liver Abscess . . . 357 

XXXVI. Relationship of Dysentery to Tropical Liver Abscess .... 363 

XXXVII. Bowel Conditions in recent fatal Liver Abscess Cases .... 364 

XXXVIII. The Frequency of Single and Multiple Liver Abscess Post-mortem . 368 

XXXIX. Complications of Left Lobe Abscesses ....... 369 

XL. Complications and Terminations of Right Lobe Liver Abscess . . 370 

XLI. Dviration of Symptoms before Liver Abscess is Clinically Evident . . 375 

XLII. Leucocytosis in Liver Abscess . . . . . . , . 379 

XLIII. Causes of Death in Liver Abscess . . . . . .381 

XLIV^ Mortality in Different Forms of Liver Abscess . . . . . .383 

XLV. Cases of Liver Abscess treated by Aspiration and Qviinine Injection in 

Calcutta .......... . 395 

XL VI. Blood Changes in Epidemic Dropsy and Beri-beri compared . . . 401 

XL VII Mode of Recurrence of Plague in Punjab Villages .... 418 



Historical Introduction 

THE EVOLUTION OF OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE FEVERS OF INDIA 

The vast and complicated subject of fevers in the tropics has specially attracted 
the attention of physicians in India, a study of whose writings is of great interest 
to workers of the present day in the same far-from-exhausted field, as they contain 
remarkably accurate descriptions of fevers, whose pathology and causation are 
only now becoming clearly understood. The influence of some of their methods 
of treatment, often based on a false conception of the pathological processes under- 
lying the disease, can still be seen in the practice of many medical men in the East 
at the present time ; such as a belief in the danger of giving quinine during actual 
fever. It is easy to trace in their writings the gradual evolution of our present 
nomenclature, by the successive grafting on of specific fevers, such as typhoid and 
Malta fever, as they became differentiated out, to the older clinical types, such as 
" Intermittent," " Remittent " and " Continued " fever, and the survival of " Simple 
Continued " and '' Ephemeral " fevers. That writers who lived before the days of 
modern microscopes, or even of temperature charts, should have been able to classify 
and describe the fevers of India to the extent they did, teaches a valuable lesson 
in these days when clinical studies are at a discount. A brief account of the gradual 
evolution of our knowledge of fevers in the East, based on a study of the Indian 
writers of the last century and a half, will serve to show how our present position 
has been reached, and form a fitting introduction to this attempt to describe the 
fevers which have now been differentiated, and to indicate the lines of further pro- 
gress. For the sake of clearness the subject has been divided up into different 
periods of time, so as to bring out the more striking advances made. 

1757-1804. PERIOD OF THE USE OF BARK IN THE TREATMENT OF FEVERS BY 
SHIP'S SURGEONS— JAMES LIND— JOHN CLARK— WILLIAM HUNTER 

The earliest ^\Titers on the fevers of India were ship's surgeons, who visited 
the principal ports of the country, and left graphic descriptions of devastation 
produced by the disease among their crews, and their accounts are of great interest 
as illustrating the successful use of cinchona bark in the treatment of severe Indian 
malarial fevers at a date prior to the strange and prolonged neglect of this specific 
treatment during the first half of the nineteenth century in India. 

Cinchona bark was first brought to Europe from Peru by the Spaniards in 1632, 
although not tried until 1639. Under the name of Jesuit's bark it was subsequently 

1 1 



2 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

largely used by missionaries in various parts of the world with great success. Dr. 
BoGUE used it in 1657 in the fatal fevers of the rainy season in Calcutta, while 
Dr. JAMES LIND treated between 400 and 500 patients with intermittent and remit- 
tent fevers in Lower Bengal in 1765, during which he used over 140 lbs. of the bark, 
with only two fatal cases, neither of which had taken it, and he gives most careful 
directions for the use of the drug. He divides fevers into intermittent, remittent 
and continued forms, the latter, however, having also a great tendency to remit. 
He advises bleeding to be used with great caution, but gave an emetic or a purge, 
followed by an antimonial draught to produce a sweat and a remission, when bark 
in doses of one to two drachms every two hours should be given during the remission 
or intermission. He remarks, " In the proper administration of the bark, the cure 
of agues may be said to entirely consist," the prejudices against it being due to the 
effect of the disease not being distinguished from those of the remedy. In hundreds 
of cases the ague was stopped by the bark after one or two paroxysms, and in one 
case in which six fits occurred it was found that the medicine had not been taken, 
but its administration stopped a further fit. When bark cannot be taken by 
the stomach he advises its use in clysters, and also uses draughts as a prophylactic. 

WILLIAM HUNTER in 1804 also described the treatment of Indian fevers by 
drachm doses of cinchona bark every two hours during remissions, however slight. 

JOHN CLARK, who made two voyages to India between 1768and 1771, describes 
the fever which raged at Bengal in the year 1768 as the most malignant he had 
ever seen in any part of the East Indies. With regard to fevers in general he 
writes : " Yet in every part of the world fevers are essentially the same, or in 
other words, consist of only one genus ; and that the only species that can be 
ascertained, are the intermittent, remittent and continued." He laid bleeding 
aside as injurious in every fever in warm climates, but used tartar emetic and 
Glauber's salts to cleanse the intestinal canal, calomel in bilious sickness, and 
opium to produce sleep and sweating, and especially to remove pain and irritabiUty 
of the stomach and assist this organ in retaining the bark. Of cinchona he writes : 
'■ As soon as the intestinal canal has been thoroughly cleansed, the cure must entirely 
depend upon giving the Peruvian bark, in as large doses as the patient's stomach 
will bear, without paying any regard to the remissions or exacerbations of the fever. 
If the remission be distinct, the bark, indeed, will have a more speedy effect in 
subduing the fever ; but even if it become continued, by a regular and steady 
perseverance in the medicine, it will be effectually prevented from growing dangerous 
or maUgnant." Substituting the word quinine for bark no better directions for 
the treatment of malarial fever could be written at the present time, yet, strange 
to say, this method, which had proved so successful in the treatment of the severe 
Bengal remittent fever in the hands of Lind, Clark and William Hunter, was 
soon afterwards to be abandoned ahnost completely in India for a period of about 
forty years. There is also much truth in Clark's remark that refrigerants " can 
only be accounted a specious pretext for doing nothing," although it must be allowed 
that this is much better than the actively injurious treatment which has next to 
be described. 



HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION 3 

1804-1847. PERIOD OF THE DISPLACEMENT OF BARK BY VIOLENT PURGING, 
SALIVATION WITH MERCURY AND COPIOUS VENESECTION— JAMES JOHNSON- 
JAMES ANNESLEY— Vi^ILLIAM TWINING— RANALD MARTIN— AND KENNETH 
MACKINNON 

It would, perhaps, be too much to say that fashion has no place in the practice 
of medicine at the present day, yet it may safely be asserted that no such complete 
and injurious reversion of the treatment of an extremely common and deadly 
disease could now be suddenly brought about by the influence of a single man, 
as that which was affected at the beginning of the last century by Dr. James Johnson. 
He came out to India as a ship's surgeon, and reached Calcutta in the height of 
the malarial season in September, 1804, and he considered himself " fortunate in 
having the works of the two celebrated authors Clark and Lind." He graphically 
described his first attempt to cure a severe Bengal remittent fever with the cinchona 
bark, its failure owing to obstinate vomiting, and the death of his patient on the 
third day of the disease. He performed a post mortem and found extreme engorge- 
ment of the Hver and some congestion of the vessels of the cerebral membranes. 
Dr. Johnson never tried bark again, but copiously bled his next case, and, unfor- 
tunately for his subsequent patients, this man recovered. " Henceforth," he 
says, " I carried the evacuating plan with a high hand. If I gave a purgative I 
always added to the mercurial frictions, to prevent a halt in the pursuit of my 
ulterior and principal object — ptyahsm." Now, as Hare subsequently pointed out, 
Johnson in the treatment of his first fatal case had neglected two of the most impor- 
tant points in the use of bark which Lind insisted on — " Yet on the result of 
this badly treated case, he dashes away bark, and the experience of 150 years, and 
strikes out a treatment of his own, viz. saUvation by scruple doses of calomel, with 
copious bleeding." Johnson spent but a very short part of his early professional 
career in India, but after his return to London he pubhshed in 1813 his classical 
book on Tropical Diseases, which reached a sixth edition in 1841, in the preface 
to which the author stated that his opinions were unchanged. By this work, 
together with his review, " all opposition was silenced and swamped by his slaughter- 
ing and withering criticisms," and thus was " accomplished a most wonderful 
revolution in the treatment of tropical fevers." Henceforth bark was almost 
entirely given up in India, and even when quinine was discovered it was for many 
years only used as a tonic in small doses after the fever had quite ceased, while 
some even forbade its use imtil the tongue had become clean. It was not long 
before voices were raised protesting against the horrible results of the repeated 
salivations for intermittent fevers, which Lind had cured in two days with bark ; 
for as long as the fever lasted it was extremely difficult to produce saHvation, but 
when the pyrexia ceased the enormous doses of calomel became rapidly absorbed 
with frightful results, necrosis of the jaws being a common sequel. As early as 
1816 Dr. HaUiday pubUshed some of these cases in which from 800 to 900 grains 
of calomel had been administered during a single attack of fever, while in one 
month at the General Hospital, Calcutta, 13,337 grains of this drug were used. 



4 ^ FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

This vigorous protest only resulted in his being turned out of Calcutta, and " sus- 
pended from his appointment and from the service," and the scruple doses of 
calomel continued until Twining's time in 1833, although some decrease in the 
amount of the drug used gradually took place. Fortunately Johnson's practice did 
not take such firm root in parts of India remote from Bengal, as will appear from 
the following references to the great Madras writer, James Annesley. 

JAMES ANNESLEY, 1828 

The vagueness of pathological knowledge in Annesley's time can best be 
conceived from the following quotation of his views on the causation of fevers. 
"It is most probable that the constitution of the atmosphere, whether it consists 
in a certain state of its electricities or not, tends to augment the quantity and 
intensity of the causes of fever, while it predisposes the system to their operation. 
This seems to be the whole amount of our knowledge — its utmost extent ; and 
beyond it there can nothing be advanced but vague hjrpothesis and speculation." 
Nevertheless he gives the following classification of fevers. I. iNTERivnTTENT 
Fever prevailing in the autumn and cold seasons, as Tertian, Double Tertian and 
Quotidian agues, with derangement of the liver and spleen. II. RE:\nTTENT 
Fever in the early rains and hot season, being mild, inflammatory, bilious after 
the rains, or mahgnant with typhoid symptoms. III. Continued Fevers, attack- 
ing chiefly new-comers, and with more or less an inflammatory character at the 
commencement, and sub-divided into simple inflammatory, bilious inflammatory 
and malignant continued. He notes that during the hot weather the sun or heat 
causes fever, especially in new arrivals (insolation). 

Annesley also carefully describes the changes found post mortem in death 
from fever, and refers to the small intestines being " studded with small ulcera- 
tions, particularly the termination of the ileum " ; the earliest known reference 
to typhoid lesions in India, while he also describes perforation of the intestines 
causing peritonitis. 

TREATMENT. — He notes that in mild fevers the crisis may supervene if left 
to nature, but considers that in the great majority of cases of fever " it would be 
generally dangerous, and often fatal, to wait for the supervention of a spontaneous 
crisis," and he follows the maxim of Sydenham " to moderate excessive action 
as soon as it supervenes." For this purpose in the cold stage he uses hot or vapour 
bath and frictions to the trunk, to bring about reaction or the hot stage, which in 
turn is treated, if it be excessive, by general or local blood-letting, cold affusion 
and diaphoretics. After the paroxysm an emetic and 15 to 20 grains of calomel, 
followed by a purge, were given. Having thus " promoted the discharge of morbid 
secretions and faecal accumulations," and " removed local congestions " by blood- 
letting, " we may resort to the exhibition of bark, so as to prevent the accession 
of the paroxysms." Unless the previous treatment has been carried out first 
" we may resort to this valuable medicine to Uttle purpose ; for it will either not 
be retained on the stomach, or it will fail in producing its febrifuge effects if retained, 



HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION 5 

and occasion obstruction and enlargement of the liver and spleen." But he adds : 
" This difficulty is happily got rid of since the introduction of the sulphate of quinine 
into practice " — a most acute observation, which appears to have been lost sight 
of for many years by his contemporaries and successors. He also advises caution 
in the use of calomel where the spleen is much enlarged, and states that in compli- 
cated and irregular agues bark should not be deferred until the tongue is clean. 

In the continued fevers of new arrivals he advises copious and repeated bleeding, 
calomel, emetics, purging, and bark or quinine only after suppression of the fever, 
the bark being given in as large doses as the stomach will bear. 

Annesley also writes of the mosquito curtain as an almost absolute preventative 
of malaria in his work pubhshed in 1828 ; a very early reference to its value in India, 

Thus we see that Annesley classified fevers simply in accordance with the 
type of the temperature curve, and treated aU forms ahke by the methods then 
in vogue, and although he undoubtedly saw tjrphoid, he did not recognize it as a 
separate specific fever. 

THE VIEWS OF WILLIAM TWINING, 1835 

WiUiam Twining was one of the many eminent physicians who have utiHzed 
the extensive clinical material available in the European Greneral Hospital, Cal- 
cutta, for advancing the knowledge of his day on fevers, and the following brief 
extracts from the second edition of his book, published in 1835, wiU suffice to show 
that he made good use of his opportunities, and that in his classification he was 
ahead of his predecessors. He divided fevers into : — I. Intermittent Fever, 
or ague, due to malaria and occurring at the end of the rains and early cold weather, 
and " intimately connected with the diurnal changes of temperature which take 
place at the commencement of the cold season." II. The Common Continued 
Fever op the Dry Hot Season, due to exposure to the sun or heat, and showing 
inflammation of the brain, root of the mesentery and fiver. III. Remittent 
Fever of the rains, characterized by a diurnal exacerbation and remission of pjn'exia, 
commencing sometimes with shivering, followed by a hot stage ending in perspiration, 
of ten profuse, " the intervals between the paroxysms often marked by entire cessa- 
tion of pyrexia," and more or less enlargement of the spleen in almost aU the cases. 
With prophetic insight he adds : "It would be an interesting subject of inquiry, 
to ascertain, if possible, whether any pecuhar changes occur in the blood as a general 
trait, and at an early period in aU these fevers." His account is an admirable 
description of the severe malarial remittent and intermittent fevers of Bengal. In 
discussing the pathology he lays great stress on the occurrence of " local congestions 
and effusions " in the " stomach, intestines, cellular structure about the duodenum, 
and at the root of the mesocolon, more especially where it crosses the spine." These 
pecuhar views appear to have greatly influenced him in his treatment of the disease, 
of wliich he observes : " Life often depends on the management of a single 
paroxysm, by the judicious use of the lancet, a purgative, and two or three large 
doses of quinine." In order to subdue these " local congestions and effusions " 



6 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

he made a more extensive use of bleeding, especially in the cold stage, in all forms of 
fever than any other of the older writers I am acquainted withexcept James Johnson. 
Case No. 70 in his book well illustrates his treatment. The patient was bled 38 
oz. and had 20 leeches apphed to his epigastrium the first day ; bled 20 ozs. the 
second day ; 12 leeches the third ; and on the fourth day bled 24 ozs. and 8 leeches 
applied. In addition, during this period of the first five days of his illness, 55 grains 
of calomel and 46 of blue pill, besides which daily purges of colocynth, hyocyamus 
pulv. jalapae co., gamboge, senna, and salts were administered. On the fifth day he 
was not yet fit for large doses of quinine, but half a grain was given and repeated 
after one hour. He was a " strong active man " and recovered, mild purges being 
used daily for some time after the fever ceased, and " a sea voyage completed his 
restoration to health." Truly Annesley's observation that quinine may safely 
be given during fever was lost on Twining, while it is no cause for wonder that the 
latter writer ranks Bengal remittent fever of the rainy season as one of the most 
formidable diseases of India. 

IV. THE INSIDIOUS CONGESTIVE FEVER OF THE COLD SEASON.— In 
addition to the fevers described by Annesley, Twining writes under this name 
of another continued fever characterized by " slight obscure symptoms at its com- 
mencement," with pyrexia, lassitude, delirium at night and picking at the bed 
clothes, the fever becoming gradually higher for a time. Post mortem he notes 
that " in a few rare instances, where the patients have died after a protracted fever 
of this sort, superficial ulcerations of the mucous membrane of the small intestines 
were found." He added the following remarkable statement : "If more extended 
observations should prove that these ulcerations of the small intestines exist gener- 
ally in cases which terminate fatally, and that such a pathological condition is 
rarely met with in the inspections of subjects that have died of other descriptions 
of fever in Bengal, I should be inclined to adopt the opinion of Dr. Boot, that a 
peculiarity of the fever would thus be ascertained, which, combined with the exclu- 
sive prevalence of the disease in the cold season, its insidious invasion, obscure 
symptoms, slow progress, and protracted course, attended with prolonged stupor 
and delirium, and the organic changes at its later stages, might establish a resemblance 
to some modifications of European typhus ; although the resemblance be not 
strictly correct in all its details." He also states : " The worst forms which I have 
seen attack individuals who had not been three months in India." There is 
no doubt that Twining was here describing typhoid fever, which was first clearly 
recognized as such in India by Scriven in Burma, and at the Calcutta Hospital a 
few years later. Twining, however, advises the same treatment for this disease 
as for " remittent fever," including free and repeated bleeding and purging. To 
him, however, undoubtedly belongs the credit of having first clearly seen and described 
the main differences between tjrphoid and malarial remittent fevers, and although 
the certain differentiation between them was until quite recently often a difficult 
task in the early stages. 

Under DISEASES OF THE SPLEEN Twining describes a peculiar constitutional 
disorder with very great enlargement of the organ producing a tumid belly, and 



HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION 7 

attended by general debility and emaciation, anaemia and occasional returns of 
indistinct ague. It progresses most rapidly to a marasmic condition in children, 
and the patients are very prone to foul sloughy ulcers, from slight wounds or bruises, 
while the blood coagulates imperfectly, and haemorrhages tend to occm- from 
slight causes. " Foul gangrenous ulcers of the lips and gums are liable to form 
in consequence of slight local irritation (and often without any obvious cause), 
whereby the jaw becomes carious, and exfoliates, and the teeth drop out " (Cancrum 
oris). The majority of the protracted cases that terminate fatally suffer from 
dysentery, or dropsy of the belly, when the superficial abdominal veins become 
enlarged. In extreme cases the spleen fills more than half the belly, while it extends 
to the right of the navel and into the left iliac region, several such cases being seen 
every year in Calcutta, a few of them recovering. This condition follows especially 
protracted intermittent and remittent fevers, which are occasionally met with at 
all seasons. He concludes : " The assemblage of constitutional symptoms described 
in the foregoing pages, constitute the Endemic Cachexia of those Tropical Countries 
that are subject to Paludal Exhalations." 

TREATMENT. — In fairly strong adults four to ten leeches over the spleen 
every second day for two weeks, or if pyrexia is present, venesection not exceeding 
one pound at a time. Then purges for two or three days, followed by spleen mixture 
of sulphate of iron and salts. Haemorrhages may be followed by rapid improve- 
ment. He also describes a native treatment by repeatedly puncturing the spleen 
with sohd needles, and used it himself with apparent success : the earUest reference 
to spleen puncture in India I have met with. 

This account most certainly iricluded cases of sporadic kala-azar as well as true 
malarial cachexia. 

JAMES RANALD MARTIN, 1841-1856 

In 1841 Sir James Ranald Martin was joint author with James Johnson of 
the sixth edition of the fittle book on Tropical Diseases, and he re-wrote the work 
as a seventh edition in 1856. 

Martin's classification in 1856 is the same as that of Twining in 1835, while 
his treatment is also on precisely similar lines. Thus Martin still warmly advocates 
general and local bleeding in intermittent and remittent fevers, but used it during 
the hot stage and not in the cold one, as Twining advises, while all authors are 
agreed that venesection is extremely dangerous and often fatal in the sweating 
stage. Martin admits that "fashion" was against bleeding (1856), and that the 
remedy is worse than the disease in " ardent or the continued fever of the hot 
season " while he does not use it in the " congestive fever of the cold season " 
(t3rphoid). He notes that he frequently saw this last disease in native patients 
at the Medical College Hospital, Calcutta ; this being the earliest reference 
I know to the common occurrence of tjrphoid in natives. Both Twining and 
Martin refer to finding liver abscess post mortem in cases of the " congestive fever 
of the cold weather," showing that they included other diseases besides typhoid 
under this term. In natives he says an active " emetic-cathartic " treatment often 



8 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

cures fevers without any quinine, but regrets it cannot be enforced in Europeans, 
who usually refuse to submit to it. 

KENNETH MACKINNON in 1848 pubhshed a treatise on the diseases of Bengal 
and the North-West Provinces (now called the United Provinces), with an account 
of epidemic affections. His classification and treatment, however, do not differ 
materially from those of his contemporaries already quoted. 

1847-1854. THE DISPLACEMENT OF BLEEDING AND MERCURY BY QUININE 
GIVEN DURING FEVER— EDWARD HARE 

Although during the dark age of European medicine in India just described 
the use of either bark or quinine as long as fever persisted was almost entirely 
neglected, yet bright exceptions did occur, for I find that Frederick Corbyn, 
the editor of the first medical journal pubhshed in India, in a paper published 
in 1834 successfully used the following treatment in the severe outbreak of malarial 
fever in Calcutta in 1833. " Two hours from the time of giving the purgative 
were administered from seven to eight grains of sulphate of quinine every four 
hours. In over 200 cases in Europeans none died, and they were generally well 
and able to work on the sixth day." His work, however, appears to have been 
quite overshadowed by that of his more brilliant colleague. Twining, and as I 
have not been able to find that later -writers gave Corbyn the credit due to him, his 
successful treatment deserves mention here. 

Nevertheless, the credit of having substituted the present method of the use 
of quinine in malarial fevers, in the place of Johnson's bleeding and sahvation by 
mercury, undoubtedly belongs solely to Edward Hare, whose re-discovery of the 
safety and efficiency of the use of the cinchona alkaloids during the progress of 
malarial fevers in India is a fascinating page of medical history. Hare came to 
India in 1839, and in 1842 found himself face to face with the deadly terai fever 
at the foot of the Nepaul Himalayas, and he treated it according to the standard prac- 
tice, with the result that " they all died, no remission took place, there were head 
symptoms, and I durst not give quinine. In fact it was so utterly forbidden by all 
authorities, that it never occurred to me to give it. I tried to salivate, but the 
fever was so active that my patients were dead before the mercury had time to 
affect them." One day he was left a valuable library by a medical gentleman 
whom he had unsuccessfully treated for cholera, and in it he found the already 
rare works of Lind and Hunter. Finding their practice new to him, he read them 
with eagerness, and relates : "It then struck me as remarkable that, since the 
discovery of quinine, no one had tried it in the same way as Lind and Hunter 
had used bark, from the dread of its increasing congestion and inflammation. And 
as a case quite hopeless under the common treatment soon offered itself to me, 
I determined to try quinine," A European deserter, aged 20, who had become 
insensible with terai fever in their village, had been brought to him by some natives. 
" I immediately mixed a scruple of quinine in some wine, and by giving him a tea- 
spoonful at a time, made him swallow it. I repeated it every four hours, three times 



HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION ~ 9 

that day, early in the morning he was sensible," and on the second day he was 
out of danger, " and to my surprise he had taken 2 J drachms of quinine in forty- 
eight hours, and without much inconvenience." The thoroughness with which 
Hare tried the quinine during fever in this case is remarkable, and still more worthy 
of admiration and imitation is the patient manner in which he made full use of 
his numerous opportunities of treating the deadly terai malaria among the planters 
and others in his district for several years, until he had accumulated overwhelming 
evidence in favour of his method. At last in 1847 he pubhshed at Delhi Hare's 
Hints on the Treatment of Malaria and Dysentery , the e^^ct of which can best be judged 
from the following quotation from Joseph Ewart's historical paper published in 
1861 : " This pamphlet of Hare's Hints appears to have taken the profession 
by surprise, and created a great sensation throughout the length and breadth 
of the Company's Indian possessions, strong proofs of the startling novelty of the 
propositions therein advocated, at least among the general body of practitioners 
in India at that time." 

Fortunately by this date the ill effects of bleeding and saUvation in the treat- 
ment of fever had begun to be recognized, and not only did Hare escape the fate 
of his predecessor Halliday, but the Calcutta Medical Board obtained the sanction 
of the great Lord Dalhousie for a year's trial of his method at the General and Station 
Hospitals, Calcutta, in wards under the supervision of Hare himself. It is unneces- 
sary to enter into details of this most conclusive experiment, but it wiU suffice 
to say that the mortaHty of the cases treated by Hare in the Station hospital was 
less than half that of the control ward under more favourable conditions than 
Hare's, while at the General Hospital his mortahty in all fevers was but 1 in 129, 
against an average death rate during the previous twenty years of 1 in 11 J of the 
cases treated : a twelve-fold reduction. These figures were certified by the medical 
board, who ordered the report to be sent to every medical officer in India. More- 
over, during the next nine years, in charge of European regiments which served 
both in the first Burmese war and throughout the siege of DeUii during the mutiny, 
Hare treated 6,982 fever cases, with an average of only one death in 211. Truly 
the triumphs of peace are greater than those of war, and such a man as Edward 
Hare should not be forgotten, although there exists no statue to recall his memory. 

CLASSIFICATIONS OF FEVERS BY FRANCIS DAY (MADRAS, 1859) AND CHARLES 

MOREHEAD (BOMBAY, 1860) 

A compilation from original works on tropical diseases was published by Francis 
Day, of Madras, in a series of articles in the Indian Annals of Medical Science of 
1859-60, in which a somewhat more elaborate classification than those previously 
referred to was adopted. Thus he subdivides intermittent, remittent and " con- 
tinuo-remittent " fevers into (1) Simple and (2) Complicated, the complicated 
cases being again divided into those affecting the pulmonary, abdominal, circulatory 
or nervous systems. Further, each class is described separately as simple, dynamic, 
and ad3aiamic. It cannot be said that these descriptions convey very clear ideas 



10 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

of the different types of fever to a reader of the present day, but doubtless they 
had their uses as indicative of the treatment then considered necessary in different 
stages of the vascular system, especially as regards bleeding. AU the above were 
described as varieties of malaria, but in addition he recognized non-malarial 
" ephemeral," " intermittent," and " remittent fevers," as well as " common con- 
tinued " and " ardent continued " fevers, which still find a niche in the official 
nomenclature, as " simple continued fever," although I have never been able to 
find any one who had a clear idea of what fever is meant by this term. He also 
gives a good account of insolation, which will be referred to under the head of 
heat-stroke. 

MOREHEAD, in the second edition of his classical work on Diseases in India, 
published in 1860, divides fevers into intermittent and remittent, both simple and 
complicated ; febricula or common continued fever, ardent fever, and typhoid, 
which had recently been described by Scriven and Ewart, and which Morehead 
was famihar with in England, but he clearly shows it to have been very rare in 
Bombay during his thirty years' service there. 

THE DIFFERENTIATION OF TYPHOID FEVER IN INDIA 

The foregoing study of the works on Indian fevers published in the first sixty 
years of the last century reveals very little progress in either the differentiation 
or treatment of fevers with the exception of Twining's description of the " con- 
gestive fever of the cold season," which preceded the recognition of typhoid fever 
by Jenner twenty years later. Quinine had also come into general use, but its full 
benefits were not yet generally obtained owing to the erroneous view- as to the 
great danger of giving it during actual pyrexia, doubtless derived from the days 
when large quantities of the crude bark were alone available and could not be 
retained by the stomach during high fever. Copious general bleeding was still 
advocated by leading authorities, although it was rapidly losing ground among 
the majority of practitioners, as was the use of large doses of calomel and blue 
pill, which many of the older writers used to push to the point of saUvation. 

Now a fresh era in the study of fevers in India arose, numerous valuable con- 
tributions on the subject appearing in the recently started Indian AuTials of Medical 
Science, which, in the form of the Indian Medical Gazette, survives to this day. 
A most admirable summary of the work done in India up to 1886 is given in Norman 
Chevers' Commentary on the Diseases of India, to which I am indebted for the refer- 
ences up to that date. (I have, however, consulted the originals of every available 
paper I have referred to.) Although Annesley in Madras, Twining in Calcutta, 
and Morehead in Bombay had all previously recorded cases now easily recognizable 
as enteric with typical ulcers in the ileum ; yet the credit of having first clearly 
recognized the typhoid fever of Jenner in India belongs to Scriven, who in 1854 
published three cases seen in Burma, and a second series in 1857, from the General 
Hospital, Calcutta, with a coloured plate illustrating the intestinal lesions. Joseph 
Ewart in 1856 also described the disease in the Ajmere jail, for the first time in 
natives of India, having found the typical ulceration of Peyer's patches in three 



HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION 11 

cases. He also relates two cases as tj^hus fever without rash, but from his descrip- 
tion these were possibly cases of typhoid without intestinal ulceration. He notes 
the difficulty in recognizing the spots in typhoid in natives, and lays stress on the 
diagnostic value of delirium, tenderness over the ileum, mUd diarrhoea and tympanitis. 
In 1859 Edward Goodeve published a clinical lecture on typhoid at the Medical 
College Hospital, giving an excellent description of the disease in both Europeans 
and natives, and he found little difficulty in recognizing the rose spots in the latter. 
In 1861 Hanbury described six cases verified by post mortems in the Bombay 
Presidency ; and in the following year Ranking and Cornish described it in European 
soldiers serving in Madras, the last named pointing out that an examination of the 
old records of deaths of sixty-two Government officers showed typhoid lesions 
in no less than 11 per cent., although post mortems were not done in all of them. 
Cornish concluded : " Although the records of the medical department show 
very conclusively that enteric fever has always been known in India, it is only 
within the last five years that the disease has been commonly met with, at least 
in the Madras Presidency, and the weight of evidence goes to show that there 
was a direct importation of its germs about the period when large numbers of 
European troops arrived in the end of the year 1857 to assist in quelling the mutiny 
and rebellion." This view very well explains the undoubted rarity of typhoid at 
an earher date, and its steady increase in each decade since the mutiny, more 
rapidly than can be clearly accounted for by improved diagnosis alone, to reach 
its height when the short service system furnished a larger proportion of young 
and highly susceptible men. In 1861 enteric fever cases were separately shown 
in the returns for British troops, and in 1871 in the reports of the Sanitary Com- 
missioner with the Government of India, while in 1881 Bryden in his statistical reports 
of the Government of India showed that 1,453 deaths had occurred among British 
soldiers from this disease during the previous eleven years. The very high mortafity 
among the cases returned as typhoid in a number of stations at this time clearly 
shows that many of the milder forms of the disease were still classed as " remit- 
tent " or "common continued fever." This was, in fact, pointed out in a paper by 
G. Hamilton Younge of the Army Medical Staff as early as 1887, in which he 
ably describes the milder forms of t3rphoid, and states that cases of remittent or 
continued fever which last over twelve days are almost always enteric, 70 per 
cent, of the cases returned as " remittent fever " showing symptoms and often 
post mortem signs of enteric, while he doubts the separate existence of " remit- 
tent fever " other than malarial remittents. As his experience was in parts where 
kala-azar did not exist, he was doubtless right, although his views were warmly 
controverted at the time. It is also a curious fact that, although typhoid was 
described in natives by Ewart very shortly after it was first detected in Europeans 
in India by Scriven, yet, up to within the last few years, the disease has been com- 
monly considered to be extremely rare among the indigenous population, so 
much so, indeed, that cases resembUng enteric in natives were generally returned 
as " remittent fever " as being probably more correct. Since the discovery of the 
serum test for typhoid, abundant evidence of the frequency of this disease in natives 



12 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

in various parts of India has accumulated, some of the more important of which 
are referred to on pages 136-138. 

1882-1886. WORKS ON INDIAN FEVERS BY VANDYKE CARTER, FAYRER, NORMAN 

CHEVERS AND MACLEAN 

This period was one of great activity among writers on Indian diseases. Typhoid 
fever had now taken its proper place among the fevers of the country, and in 1882 
a further great advance was made by the publication of Vandyke Carter's classical 
work on Spirillar, or Relapsing fever, which estabUshed this disease as prevalent 
in the Bombay Presidency, and added so much to our knowledge of it that but 
little advance has been made since his day, and the full distribution of the disease 
in India is probably still very imperfectly known. In the same year Fajrrer's 
important Croonian lectures on the climate and fevers of India appeared, in which 
he fuUy recognizes the frequency of typhoid fever, and states that it is not uncommon 
among natives of India. In 1886 Maclean pubHshed his lectures on tropical diseases 
dehvered at the Netley school, and in the same year appeared the Norman Chevers' 
invaluable Commentary on the Diseases of India, with its copious references to the 
previous literature, and a most illuminating discussion of the many vexed problems 
of tropical medicine of his day. The three last mentioned writers all adopted the 
same classification of Indian fevers ; dividing them into intermittent and 
remittent malarial fevers, including malarial cachexia, and continued fevers, which 
included typhoid, ephemeral fever or febricula, common continued, ardent fevers 
and heat-stroke, in addition to the specific fevers such as Dengue and Relapsing 
fever. At this time, however, the work of Laveran had not been generally accepted, 
and his researches are referred to by these writers as being of great interest, but 
inconclusive. Moreover, it was still commonly held that ulceration of the Peyer's 
patches might occur in remittent fevers other than typhoid. 

1886-1906. RECENT WORK AT MALARIA AND OTHER INDIAN FEVERS 

During the last twenty years, and especially in the latter half of that period, 
Indian fevers have received an increasing amount of serious attention on behalf 
of investigators, which has produced much advance in our knowledge, and prepared 
the way for still greater things in the near future. Much of this has been due to 
improved microscopical technique, but also largely to the stimulating influence of 
the teaching of Sir A. E. Wright during the closing years of the much- to-be-regretted 
Netley school. 

Indian medical men have often been reproached with their slowness in accepting 
the work of Laveran and the Itahan writers on malarial fevers, and it must be 
admitted that there are some grounds for the charge, in spite of the brilliant work 
of Vandyke Carter on malarial parasites and especially on the flagellated forms 
as early as 1887. After his time, however, there were several years of sterility and 
increduhty in India, and as late as 1892 even Ronald Ross ascribed over 90 per 
cent, of Indian fevers to " entero-septic " changes in the bowel, and early in 1894 



HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION 13 

argued at length against Laveran's and Golgi's bodies being parasitic in nature, 
although he very shortly after commenced the brilhant researches which have 
shed such lustre on Indian medicine. This sceptical attitude was doubtless due 
to two factors : firstly the unsatisfactory nature of the methods of examining and 
staining blood fihns in those days, and stiU more to the fact, still insufficiently 
recognized, that so many of the fevers seen in various parts of India, which have 
for many decades been classed as malarial in their origin, are not malarial at all, 
and consequently microscopists, after spending many of their few leisure hours 
in vain search for the parasites in non-malarial cases, have not unnaturally become 
sceptical as to their very existence. For example, I have known keen men carefuUy 
picking out those of their patients who had the largest spleens in order to examine 
their blood for malarial parasites, Uttle dreaming that many of the cases which 
had been for centuries regarded as " malarial cachexia " were not malarial at all. 
Moreover they had no stains to render visible the minute bodies in the spleens, 
first recognized as being a stage of a trypanosome-like parasite by the daring leap 
of Leishman, which has done so much towards clearing up of the much-discussed 
kala-azar, and the Umitation of the malarial group to its proper dimensions ; com- 
paratively insignificant as it is when compared to the nearly all-embracing use of this 
term by the older writers. The Malaria Commission of the Royal Society also threw 
muchhght on that disease in India. At the Calcutta Indian Medical Congress in 1894, 
Dr. A. Crombie, after studying malarial fevers in Italy, declared that many of 
those returned as ague in India were not malarial, and also described a non-malarial 
remittent and several other fevers on clinical grounds, thus stimulating research 
work in India, which is now bearing fruit. Moreover in 1897 Sir A. E. Wright 
showed by serum tests in high dilutions that Malta fever occurs in India. 

Very much stiU remains to be done before we shaU have clear ideas as to the num- 
ber and differentiation of the fevers in India, which vary widely in various provinces. 
Nevertheless, in view of the fact that no attempt has been made to describe the 
fevers of India in a systematic manner since the general acceptance of the Plas- 
modium of Laveran as the cause of malaria furnished the key to the accurate differ- 
entiation of that class of fever, still less since the other recent advances above men- 
tioned, it is hoped that the present attempt to briefly summarize our present 
knowledge of tropical fevers maj'^ be of some assistance to future workers at this 
vast subject. 

REFERENCES TO CHAPTER I 

1808. James Lind, M.D., F.R.S.Ed. Essay on diseases incidental to Europeans in hot cli- 

mates, with the method of preventing their fatal consequences. 6th edition. 
1804. William Himter. An essay on the disease incident to Indian seamen or Lascars 
on long voyages. (This work deals mainly with beri-beri.) 

1809. John Clark, M.D. Observations on the diseases which prevail in long voyages to hot 

cotmtries, particularly on those in the East Indies ; and on the same diseases as 
they appear in Great Britain. 3rd edition, London. 

1813. James Johnson. The influence of tropical climates on European constitution. 

1828. James Annesley. Resetirches into the causes, nature and treatment of the more pre- 
valent diseases of India and of warm climates generally. 



14 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

1835. William Twining. Clinical illustrations of the more important diseases of Bengal, with 

the result of an inquiry into their pathology and treatment. 2nd edition. 
1848. Kenneth Mackinnon. A treatise on the public health, climate, hygiene and prevailing 

diseases of Bengal and the North- West Provinces. 
1834. Frederick Cbrbyn. Indian Jovirnal of Medical Science, Vol. I, p. 1. On the fever 

that prevailed at Calcutta during the months of September, November and December, 

1833. 

1856. James Ranald Martin, F.R.S. The influence of tropical climates on Etiropean con- 

stitutions. (7th edition of James Johnson's work.) 
1847. Edward Hare. Hints on fever and dysentery. Delhi. 
1854. Edward Hare. Indian Annals of Medical Science, No. 2, p. 457. Tropical fever and 

dysentery. 
1865. Edward Hare. Indian Annals of Medical Science, No. 18. Malarious fever. 

1858. Francis Day. Indian Annals of Medical Science, XI. Tropical fevers. 

1860. James Morehead. Diseases of India. 2nd edition. 

1854. J. B. Scriven. Medical Times and Gazette, p. 79. Tliree cases of enteric. 

1857. J. B. Scriven. Indian Annals of Medical Science, Vol. VIII, p. 511. On Indian fevers. 
1856. Joseph Ewart. Indian Annals of Medical Science, Vol. VII, p. 64. Cases of and 

remarks upon, typhoid and typhus fever as observed in the A j mere jail. 

1859. Edward Goodeve. Indian Annals of Medical Science, Vol. XI, p. 141. Clinical lecture 

on typhoid fever. 

1861. W. Hanbury. Bombay Medical and Physical Transactions, 2nd series, Vol. VII, p. 

144. Typhoid feVer in India. 

1862. J. L. Ranking. Madras Quart. Journal of Medical Science, Vol. IV, p. 65. On the 

prevalence of typhoid fever in India. 
1862. W. J. Cornish. Madras Quart. Journal of Medical Science, Vol. IV, p. 291. Remarks 

en the prevalence of typhoid fever in the Madras Presidency. 
1887. G. H. Yotuige, A.M.S. Indian Medical Gazette, p. 16. The diagnosis of tropical 

enteric fever. 
1882. H. Vandyke Carter. Spirillum fever. 

1886. Sir Joseph Fayrer. Croonian lectures on the climate and fevers of India. 
1886. W. C Maclean. Diseases of Tropical Climates. 

1886. Norman Chevers. Commentary on Indian Diseases. 

1887. H. Vandyke Carter. Scientific Memoirs. 

1892. Ronald Ross. Indian Medical Gazette, p. 230. Entero-septic fever. 

1894. Ronald Ross. Indian Medical Gazette, p. 5. The third element in the blood and 

the malarial parasite. 
1894. A. Crombie. Trans. 1st Indian Medical Congress. Presidential address on the 

fevers of India. 
1897. A. E. Wright. Lancet, Vol. I, p. 657. On the appUcation of the serum test to the 

differential diagnosis of Malta fever. 
1901-3. J. W. W. Stephens and S. R. Christophers. Reports of the Malarial Commission of 

the Royal Society. 



THE TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE 
BLOOD IN FEVERS 

In the descriptions of the different fevers of the East in this work frequent 
references will be made to the diagnostic value of the blood changes found 
in them. A brief description of the methods of examination which have proved 
of most practical value may, therefore, be of use to many in the tropics, who 
desire to make use of every help in the difficult task of the accurate distinction 
at the earliest possible period of the disease of the numerous fevers met with. 
The following remarks are all based on an extensive personal experience of nearly 
all the methods described. 

PREPARING AND STAINING BLOOD FILMS 

For all blood examinations of stained specimens smears on slides are preferable to 
cover-glass preparations as furnishing the larger amount of material which is often 
necessary. They may be prepared by placing a small drop of blood obtained by prick- 
ing a cleansed finger or lobe of an ear near one end of the glass slide, and laying either 
the end of another sfide with its surface at an acute angle to the first, or a long 
needle, as recommended by Stephens and Christophers, across the drop of blood 
and gliding it along towards the other end of the shde, producing a smear extend- 
ing from haK to two-thirds of the breadth and length of the glass as shown in 
illustration I below. The drop of blood should be sufiiciently small to fray 




A, spot of blood placed on slide. B, needle placed acroBS drop of blood and 

drawn across to B' . 
L, parts of film where lymphocytes are in excess. 
P, parts of film where polynuclear, large mononuclear, and eosinophiles are 

most numerous. D — D, line of count across slide. 



Illustration I. — Methods of preparing blood films, and the distribution 
of the various kinds of leucocytes in them. 



16 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

out into points and be exhausted before the end of the slide is reached. If a second 
piece of glass is used to spread out the blood the more acute the angle between it 
and the slide on which the smear is being made, the thinner will be the resulting 
blood film. It is better to take too small a drop than too large a one, for in the 
latter case Httle or none of the film may show aU the red corpuscles properly- 
separated from each other. This result it is so desirable to obtain when looking for 
malarial parasites. 

Unless a combined fixing and staining reagent is used, the film must next 
be placed in either equal parts of absolute alcohol and ether, or the former alone, 
for ten minutes to fix the blood. If absolute alcohol is not available methylated 
spirit can be used for this purpose. Exposure for a few seconds to the fumes 
of a 2 per cent, solution of osmic acid also fixes blood well. 

For STAINING Romanosky's method, or one of its numerous modifications, 
is the most generally useful one for blood examinations, as it stains equally well 
bacteria, the parasites of malaria, kala-azar or filarial disease, and also the different 
forms of leucocytes. The original method has the disadvantage of requiring pre- 
liminary fixing and taking longer for fuU staining than some of its later modifi- 
cations. The most convenient of these is that of Leishman, in which the specially 
prepared stain is dissolved in pure methyl alcohol (Merck's) so that it can be used 
for both fixing and staining the film in the following manner. Some four or five 
drops of the fluid are poured on to the slide from a drop bottle so as to completely 
cover the blood smear, and left in contact for from fifteen to thirty seconds to 
fix it, strong currents of air, which will rapidly evaporate the alcohol and pre- 
cipitate the stain, being guarded against. About twice as many drops of distiUed 
water (any clean water usually does equally well) are then added and produce 
a fine precipitate of the active principle of the reagent, which stains the film in from 
three to ten minutes or more in accordance with the strength of the original solu- 
tion. Personally I prefer to use it sufficiently strong to stain malarial parasites 
and leucocytes well within five minutes, as it then becomes an eminently useful 
clinical method for use in the microscopical room, which should be a feature of 
all hospitals in the tropics. The slide is now washed in a current of water under 
a tap or from a wash bottle to remove the staining fluid (this process not being 
continued for long unless it be overs tained, as it soon begins to decolourize the film^ 
and then dried without the application of heat, which may also injure the result. 

If the original Romanosky method is used the two dilute solutions of eosin 
and medicinal methylene blue are simultaneously poured on the slides in equal 
quantities, about half to one hour being required to obtain deep staining. It 
is a good plan to place the previously fixed slides face downwards with one end 
slightly raised by a match, as this prevents precipitation on the film which some- 
times obscures the result. Giemsa's stain also produces very beautiful results, 
which are worth the extra time and cost when specimens for demonstration are 
required, but it is an unnecessary luxury for ordinary clinical work. 

As there may often be difficulty in obtaining Merck's methyl alcohol in remote 



TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN FEVERS 17 

tropical places, the following method of using in its place ordinary methylated 
spirit for dissolving Leishman's stain as recommended by F. Tullock, R.A.M.C, 
may sometimes be of value. To 25 cc. (7 fluid drachms) of methylated spirit add 
exactly two drops of a 10 per cent, solution of potassium bicarbonate. In this 
alkaline spirit make a saturated solution by grinding a slight excess of the powdered 
stain in a pestle and mortar and bottle it. Fix the blood film in equal parts of 
methylated spirit and ether for ten minutes, dry and stain as with ordinary Leish- 
man's solution for five to eight minutes. Wash in distilled water for thirty seconds, 
and then in 1 in 1,500 acetic acid for a few seconds until the film becomes of a 
bright eosin pink, rinse in distilled water and dry. 

ROSS' THICK FILM PROCESS may sometimes be of use, especially in searching 
for filaria, and occasionally in looking for malarial parasites when they are very 
scanty. The blood is spread out in a much thicker layer than usual, so that the 
red corpuscles lie over each other. After drying, a few drops of water are gently 
poured on the slide and allowed to remain for a few minutes until all the haemo- 
globin is dissolved out, and then carefully run off. After allowing to dry again, 
the film is fixed and stained by one of the methods already described. Such 
organisms as filaria can then be readily seen through the decolourized red corpuscles, 
while the blue rings with the reddish chromatin bodies of malarial parasites may 
also be similarly visible, and owing to the concentration of the blood a much larger 
quantity can be searched for them in a given time than in an ordinary thin sUde. 
I have not, however, found this method to work well in the case of the parasites 
of kala-azar, which are quickly damaged by the action of distiUed water. 

Another method of preparing a thick blood film, which I have found of more 
general value, is to first fix and stain with one of the Romanosky modifications, and 
then to rapidly dissolve out the haemoglobin from the superimposed red corpuscles 
by a very dilute solution of acetic acid, which does not at once decolourize the 
parasites of malaria, kala-azar, etc. In this way the outhnes of the red cor- 
puscles remain distinct, and the relationship of the parasites to them can be clearly 
distinguished although they have become transparent. 

THE ROUTINE EXAMINATION OF STAINED BLOOD FILMS FROM FEVER CASES 

PRELIMINARY LEUCOCYTE SURVEY.— When examining a stained blood 
film from a doubtful case of fever I always commence with an ordinary high power, 
such as a I in. or a Zeiss D lens, and first note the approximate numbers and 
varieties of the leucocytes, from which much valuable information can often very 
quickly be obtained. After some practice, by looking along the edge of the sfide, 
where the leucocytes will always be found in larger numbers than in its centre, 
a very fair idea can be got as to whether they are present in about normal pro- 
portions, or are in marked excess or deficiency. Thus, when well marked leucocytosis 
is present from twenty to forty leucocytes may be found in nearly every field along 
the edge of a thin film, and by attention to this point the condition can with 
certainty be recognized almost at a glance, without spending the much longer 

2 



18 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

time necessary for making a total count of the white corpuscles. Further, any- 
very marked variation from the normal proportion of the different forms of leuco- 
cytes can be quickly observed, such as the great increase of the percentage of 
polynuclears, which occurs in inflammatory conditions of bacterial origin. If 
such a leucocytosis is found it will be useless to spend much time in a subsequent 
search for malarial parasites, for in the very rare cases of malarial fever in which 
the total leucocytes are increased — although this is commonly without any increase 
in the proportion of the polynuclears, but with excess of the large mononuclears — 
the parasites will be so numerous as to be found almost immediately with an oil 
immersion lens. Further, such diseases as uncomplicated kala-azar and seven-day 
fever can also be excluded by finding a leucocytosis, while, on the other hand, it 
may confirm a suspicion of the presence of amoebic hepatitis, as shown on p. 183. 

On the other hand, a marked reduction of the leucocytes will be equally readily 
detected by the prehminary survey, and at once exclude any inflammatory or other 
leucocytosis producing condition. If there is an extreme leucopaenia, such as is 
evidenced by finding field after field along the edge of the sHde free from all white 
corpuscles, then it is extremely Hkely that the fever is due to kala-azar, in which 
alone I have met with the most marked examples of this condition. I have fre- 
quently been led to correctly suspect sporadic kala-azar in this way, even when I 
knew nothing of the symptoms or history of the patient from whom the blood slide 
had been prepared. Shghter degrees of leucocjrte decrease may, however, occur 
in malaria, seven-day and " low " fever more especially. 

In addition to the variations in the total leucocytes, any marked changes 
in the proportion of the different kinds may also be noted in a brief examination 
of the blood film. In addition to the increase of the polynuclears already men- 
tioned, marked excess of large mononuclears or of the eosinophiles will be evident 
on running down one edge of the preparation. When the large mononuclears show 
excess without any marked leucopoenia, the fever is most frequently malarial 
and usually one of the benign forms. In such a case a careful search along the edge 
of the film with the | in, lens will often allow of the larger benign tertians, quartans 
or cresents being detected after some practice, and their presence may then be 
quickly confirmed with a higher power. Frequently, however, a considerable 
degree of large mononuclear increase may occur in either seven-day fever or kala- 
azar, but in the last named, great leucopaenia will usually be also present. When 
a number of eosinophile corpuscles are rapidly encountered an increase of this 
variety is assured, and is most often due to either filarial disease, or to the presence 
of some intestinal worms in the body, most usually the anchylostomum duodenale. 
The lymphocytes are always more numerous in the centre of the slide than at its 
edge, and when present in considerable excess, without any large mononuclear 
increase, typhoid or seven-day fever is most often the cause of the change. 

SEARCH FOR MALARIAL PARASITES. — This very important part of the 
examination will be subsequently dealt with {see p. 218), so that it need only 
be mentioned here that if no parasites have been found in the prehminary survey 



TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN FEVERS 19 

with an ordinary high power lens, then the film must be examined under an oil 
immersion. A drop of cedar wood oil can be placed directly on the film, no cover- 
glass being necessary, and afterwards washed off with a few drops of zylol, and 
very carefully wiped with a clean cloth. The larger forms of the parasites including 
cresents are always more numerous near the edge of the film, while the small mahg- 
nant tertians and the early ring stages of the other forms are more uniformly dis- 
tributed, although sometimes they are most easily found towards the distal end 
of the slide at the bases of the terminal tags, shown at the left right hand ends 
of the film in the drawing on p. 15. It is seldom necessary to search for more 
than five to ten minutes, once some experience in detecting the parasites has 
been obtained, as they are rarely found after that time, so if there is strong 
reason to suspect the fever to be malarial it is better to obtain another slide for 
examination as soon as possible, before much quinine has been taken. 

ENUMERATION OF THE TOTAL RED AND WHITE CORPUSCLES.— 
In fevers, counting of the total white corpuscles is often of great value, especially 
where a leucocytosis is suspected, as in amoebic hepatitis, while the opposite con- 
dition of an extreme^eucopaenia is an equally valuable indication of kala-azar, particu- 
larly if they are reduced disproportionately to the red. For these reasons it is 
a matter of great convenience to be able to enumerate both the red and the white 
corpuscles at the same time. This can be done with the ordinary dilution for 
counting the red corpuscles in a haemocytometer, using a solution which will 
stain the leucocytes and so make them readily visible. For this purpose I add 
to a small bottle of Gower's solution a few drops of a saturated watery solution 
of methyl-violet, or Toisson's formula, which contains this stain, can be used. After 
counting the red in so many squares in the usual way, the white should be enumerated 
in fields of the microscope over a much larger area. If the count is being made with 
a Gower's instrument the estimation can be very readily made in the following 
manner. With a Zeiss D lens and No. 2 ocular, or any combination of about equal 
power, the tube of the microscope is drawn out until the diameter of the field 
just includes five squares with the lines bounding them at either side. It will 
be found that this area will be equivalent to 20 squares, and by counting the 
white corpuscles in twenty such fields an equivalent of 400 squares will have been 
covered. Divide the number found by 4 and multiply by 1,000, and the number 
per cubic millimetre wiU be obtained. If they are few in number an equivalent 
of 800 squares should be counted, which can be done in a single slide with this 
apparatus. If using the more generally employed Thoma-Zeiss apparatus an 
instrument with Zappert's modified ruling in large squares of the area outside 
the smaller ones, should be employed, or the number of squares in the field of a 
known magnification estimated in a similar manner to that given for Gower's 
instrument. Another help is a cardboard diaphragm placed in the eyepiece 
with a square aperture cut in it, of such a size as to include so many squares within 
the field and then the leucocytes can be counted in as many such fields as are 
necessary. 



20 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT.— The proportion in which 
the several kinds of leucocytes are found varies considerably in different fevers, and 
although they are seldom sufficiently characteristic to be in themselves of an abso- 
lutely diagnostic value, yet this test is often of help in arriving at a correct opinion 
between two or more possible conditions. In several well known text-books of 
haematology it is laid down that it is necessary to count from 500 to 1,000 leuco- 
cytes with an oil immersion lens in order to obtain accurate percentages ; an 
estimation which wiU take about an hour to perform. For this reason it is too 
often neglected in the tropics on account of the impossibiUty of finding such an 
amount of time. As a result of many hundreds of counts I have ascertained that 
rehable results can be obtained in only a small fraction of an hour by the following 
method. In the usual descriptions of this test no information is given regarding 
the part of a blood film as ordinarily made which should be examined, although 
the proportions of the different kinds of white corpuscles vary widely in different 
places, so that if this distribution is not taken into account it is doubtless necessary 
to enumerate the large numbers usually advised in order to obtain accurate per- 
centages. In a blood film, prepared as aheady described, an excess of polynuclears, 
and eosinophiles, and to a less extent of large mononuclears, will be found along 
either edge and in the distal tags, marked PP in diagram I, while the lympho- 
cytes wiU preponderate at the proximal end and in the central portions remote 
from either edge, as indicated by the letters LL. I have found, however, that by 
excluding the extreme ends of the films, and counting backwards and forwards 
across the intermediate portion between the dotted lines from edge to edge very 
accurate percentages can be obtained by the enumeration of only 250 leucocytes 
whenever they are not present in considerable excess of the normal numbers. 
With an oil immersion lens this would take a long time as the white corpuscles 
are comparatively scanty in the central portion of the film, but by adopting the 
following simple classification, which I beheve to have the greatest practical 
value in fevers, the count can be readily carried out with a | in. or Zeiss D lens, 
by which means the time required after some practice to count the necessary 250 
leucocytes in an ordinary film wiU not often exceed ten minutes, and thus become 
of easy clinical apphcation. I prefer to enumerate the leucocytes under the follow- 
ing four headings : (1) Polynuclears ; (2) Large mononuclears, including transitional 
forms ; (3) Lymphocytes ; (4) Eosinoplules. As lymphocytes shade off through 
intermediate forms into large mononuclears, it is necessary to lay down some 
artificial line of division between them, although the intermediate forms are, as 
a rule, few in number. I prefer the simple one of size, and only count as large mono- 
nuclears those which are fuUy as large or larger than an average polynuclear, 
while all smaller ones are classed as lymphocytes. This distinction can be readily 
made with a ^ in. lens, and does away with the necessity of using an oil immersion, 
with the accompanying great extension of the time required for an enumeration. 

In deciding how many leucocytes to count the total number present in the 
blood should be also considered, for if an equal number is enumerated in two 
cases, one being a leucocytosis with 50,000 per cubic milhmetre, and the other 





i 




m. 



Plate 2.— Principal types of the normal Leucocytes of the Blood. 



Eosinophlles. 

Polynuclears. 

Large Mononuclears. 

Lymphocytes. 



[To face page 21. 



TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN FEVERS 21 

a case of kala-azar with but 500 in the same amount, then 100 times as much blood 
will be passed under review in the latter as in the former examination, although 
there appears to be no reason for thinking that the different leucocytes will be more 
unevenly distributed in the one than in the other. In order to ascertain the margin 
of error in counts of 250 to 500 leucocytes under different conditions I worked out 
the percentages after enumerating varying numbers in a long series of cases, with 
the following results. When the total number of leucocytes was approximately 
normal, counts of 250 and 500 respectively, made in the manner just described, 
gave variations of under 2 per cent, in any one of the four kinds ; a number which 
made not the smallest difference in the deductions to be derived from the counts. 
When, however, a leucocytosis was present the error from a similar count might 
amount to 2 or 3 per cent., so that in cases where the white corpuscles are in 
marked excess it is advisable to enumerate 500, unless half that number furnish 
a result the inferences from which would not be affected by an error of about 3 
per cent., as in a leucocytosis with over 90 per cent, of polynuclears. Moreover, 
it usually takes little, if at all, longer to count 500 during leucocytosis by my 
method than to enumerate 250 when they are not in excess. Once more, when 
a marked leucopaenia is present, as is nearly always the case in typical uncom- 
plicated kala-azar cases, counts of 125 and 250 respectively also gave differences 
not exceeding 2 per cent., which did not affect the deductions from them, while 
such a number wiU take longer to count in these cases, and necessitate the examination 
of far more blood than four times as many when leucocytosis is present. 

The tables showing the results of leucocyte counts in different fevers in the 
following chapters have been constructed from counts made entirely by myself 
by the method just described ; thus the personal element is eliminated and they 
are strictly comparable. 

The above simple classification of the white corpuscles has been adopted 
on account of the rapidity with which it can be carried out, and because of the 



TABLE I.— DA COSTA'S CLASSIFICATION OF THE LEUCOCYTES IN 

HEALTHY BLOOD. 



Number per c.mm. 



Small lymphocytes 

Large lymphocytes and transitionals (large mononuclears 

of others) 

Polynuclear neutrophiles 

Eosinophiles 

Basophiles, as high a>s 




1,000-3,000 

200-800 

3,000-7,500 

26-500 




great difl&culty in choosing from among the innumerable complicated divisions, 
up to over thirty varieties, of the leucocytes described by different writers. As, 
however, it may be criticised, it will be well to add an alternative scheme based 
on minute morphological differences requiring the generally used oil immersion 



22 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

lens and a lengthy period for its application, that of Da Costa being taken as 
perhaps the most satisfactory. 

He distinguishes them as follows when stained by Romanosky's method or a 
modification of it. LYMPHOCYTES, or small lymphocytes, in contra-distinction to 
the large variety, measure from 5 m. to 10 m. in diameter and average the size of a red 
corpuscle, namely 7*5 /x. They have a relatively very large purple round, or rarely 
slightly indented nucleus, with narrow surrounding sky-blue protoplasm. LARGE 
LYMPHOCYTES, under which he includes both the true large lymphocyte and 
the hyaline variety or large mononuclear leucocyte, as he states it is impossible 
to distinguish between them in a clinical examination. They vary from 11 to 15 m. 
or more in diameter. The nucleus is round or ovoid, but more faintly stained than 
that of the lymphocyte and usually situated at one side in a relatively large amount 
of protoplasm, usually containing fine reddish granules. TRANSITIONAL forms 
resemble the large mononuclear, with the exception that the nucleus is indented, 
so as to have a crescentic or hour-glass form, and as it possesses the same significance 
as the large Ijrmphocyte, it is usually counted with them. The difficulty in drawing 
a hne between the large lymphocytes and the large mononuclears, especially when 
the reddish granules are absent from the protoplasm of the latter, has been a 
source of perplexity to many observers, and the personal element cannot be 
altogether eUminated. 

The POLYNUCLEAR NEUTROPHILES are more definite, although their 
size varies considerably, generally being about 10 to 12 m. Their multinuclear 
character, with fine pink faintly oxophilic granules, serve to distinguish them. 
The EOSINOPHILES have similar nuclei to the last, but they are surrounded 
by coarse granules staining a purplish colour with Romanosky, but a bright 
red with eosin, and vary from 8 to 11 m, in diameter. The BASOPHILE cells 
are only occasionally met with in normal blood. They have a divided nucleus 
like the polynuclear neutrophUes, but the protoplasm is closely packed with fine 
intensely basic granules staining of a blue colour. In addition to the above several 
pathological forms may be met with, among which are the MAST CELLS, resembling 
the basophiles, except that the granules are very coarse, hke those of the eosino- 
phUes, but basic in reaction ; and the huge myelocytes of bone marrow, which 
measure from 10 to 20 m., and resemble large mononuclears, except that they contain 
abundant neutrophile granules. Dutton and Todd discuss the classification of 
leucocytes in the first report of the trypanosomiasis expedition to Senegambia, 
and A. Balfour in a recent paper on blood counts in dengue, in which further 
information on the question may be found. 

THE VALUE OF DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNTS IN THE DIAGNOSIS OF FEVERS 

The value of the differential leucocyte count in the diagnosis of the fevers 
in the East will be considered in the sections relating to each, but a few words 
may be added here on the general aspect of the question based on a very large 
experience. 



TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN FEVERS 23 

I. LEUCOCYTOSIS. — This change is absent in uncomplicated cases of typhoid, 
including paratyphoids, kala-azar, Malta fever, malarial fevers (except very rarely 
in exceedingly acute infections), seven-day fever, three-day fever, epidemic dropsy, 
dengue and influenza. It is present in amoebic hepatitis, including the great 
majority of cases in the pre-suppurative stage ; relapsing fever during the pyrexia, 
and especially about the time of the crisis ; in plague, particularly during the first 
two or three days ; in cerebro-spinal fever, and sometimes in heat-stroke. In 
all these diseases, except amoebic hepatitis, the percentage of the polynuclears is 
raised in addition to the total increase, but in the liver affection, which is usually 
produced by a pure protozoal infection without any bacteria, the proportion of 
polynuclears is commonly only between 70 and 80 per cent., a point by which 
these difficult cases may frequently be diagnosed {see p. 183). Moreover, by finding 
a leucocytosis suspicion may be aroused of the presence of some inflammatory 
condition not previously suspected, as in a case of chronic intermittent fever, 
which was thought to be possibly due to kala-azar, the finding a high increase of 
the leucocytes excluded that disease, and this was explained some two weeks later 
by the development of symptoms of psoas abscess. Another pecuhar type of 
leucocytosis I have found of diagnostic value is a great total increase accompanied 
by a relatively high percentage of lymphocytes, such as 15 to 20 per cent, or more 
instead of the very low proportions seen in the ordinary type of leucocytosis. 
This lymphocytosis is found in a fair proportion of cases of plague, and may be 
of diagnostic value as in a case mentioned on p. 260. 

LARGE MONONUCLEAR INCREASE.— A more difficult question is the exact 
significance of an increase of the large mononuclears, for although at one time 
this was said to be diagnostic of malaria, I have found it to be at least equally 
common in the typical stages of kala-azar, and to be by no means rare in seven- 
day fever, three-day fever and low fever, while, according to Bassett-Smith, it 
is also met with in Malta fever. Further, in all but the last named disease the 
total number of leucocytes is diminished, and the percentage of lymphocytes may 
also be considerably increased ; so that the differential leucocyte count cannot 
be relied on to distinguish between these fevers. 

On the other hand, in typhoid fever, especially in the first two weeks of the 
disease, a large mononuclear increase is scarcely ever met with, while the per- 
centage of the lymphocytes is commonly much increased after the first week, and 
may reach over 40 per cent, of the whole. Such a lymphocyte increase, accom- 
panied by an absence of any increase of the large mononuclears, often proves of 
great value in confirming a suspicion of typhoid or para-typhoid, as against the 
often confused early stages of kala-azar, and sometimes also of Malta fever. 

An EOSINOPHILE INCREASE in a case of fever is most frequently associated 
with filarial disease, but may also commonly occur as a result of complicating 
anchylostoma or other intestinal worms. 



24 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



SERUM TESTS FOR TYPHOID AND MALTA FEVER 

Widal's reaction is of particular value in the tropics on account of the frequent 
difficulties in the differentiation of typhoid and Malta fever from each other, and 

also from other fevers, such as the 
early stage of kala-azar and the 
more continued types of seven- 
day fever. Whenever an efficient 
laboratory is available I prefer 
the microscopical method with 
living cultures, but in many places 
in the tropics without bacterio- 
logical apparatus, AVright's macro- 
scopical method is of great value, 
so it may be of use to briefly 
describe both. 



Bloop Collecting 
Tube 





-• riLUTINC TUBE3 



.A 



^ 



A 



I Part of Serum 



4 Rmtts of 
Salt Solution 



I Part 
Serum 




// Culture 



IPart 
Serum 



IPart 
Salt 
Solution 



> 2 Parts 
Culture 



/ 



Method of diluting Serum for Widal's Test by means of 
Wright's Tubes. 



MICROSCOPICAL METHOD. 
— In doing a Widal test in a labor- 
atory a fourteen to twenty hour 
culture in broth is used for the 
typhoid reaction, and a four or 
five day agar one for Malta fever. 
The dilutions are most conveni- 
ently carried out in the capillary 
tubes made by melting and draw- 
ing out a piece of glass tubing as 
advised by Sir A. E. Wright, for 
these can also be utihzed for his 
macroscopical method. In the 
case of typhoid I always make 
three dilutions of 1 in 20, 1 in 40 
and 1 in 100 respectively as fol- 
lows. Some of the broth culture 
being placed in one watchglass, 
and a Uttle sterile salt solution 
in a second, a capiUary tube is 
marked with a wax pencil at a 
small distance from the fine end. 
The upper end of these tubes may 
be open and covered by a rubber 
teat, by means of pressure on which 



with the thumb and fore-finger the dilutions are made, or it may be a closed bulb, 
which is heated for a second in the flame of a bunsen burner or spirit lamp to expel 
some of the air, so that while it is cooling and contracting again any fluid beneath 



TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN FEVERS 25 

whose surface the open capillary end is dipped will run up the tube as long as the 
contact with thefluid is maintained, and can be expelled again by a momentary re- 
application of heat to the bulb. Personally I prefer the latter method, as the manip- 
ulations require less deHcacy of touch than the use of the rubber teat involves. 

To first prepare the 1 in 20 dilution, the capillary tube is filled with the serum 
to be tested up to the mark by dipping its open end into the fluid after heating 
the bulb. The end is then removed from the serum, and a smaU bubble of air 
allowed to enter. Next dip the end into the normal salt solution until a portion 
of this fluid has run in up to the mark, remove the tube and admit a bubble of 
air once more, and go on repeating this process untU nine measured parts of the 
salt solution have entered the tube. Now warm the bulb so as to expel the whole 
of the contents of the tube into a clean watch glass, and a 1 in 10 dilution of the 
serum will have been obtained. One part of this has only to be diluted in a similar 
manner with one of the broth culture of typhoid to make a 1 in 20 dilution, which 
is expelled on to a slide and a cover-glass placed over it. To make a 1 in 40 
dilution take 1 part of the 1 in 10 dilution of serum, add 1 of salt solution and 
2 of the t3rphoid culture, so as to have an equal quantity of the diluted serum and 
of the culture, place this under a second cover-glass on the same sUde, marking 
each dilution with a wax pencil. To make the 1 in 100 dilution first take 1 part 
of the 1 in 10 and add 4 of salt solution, then add to 1 part of the resulting 
1 in 50 dilution to 1 of the typhoid culture and mount as before. The thin cover- 
glasses should be ringed with a little vasehne to prevent evaporation of the fluid 
and consequent drying. 

On examining a specimen with a | in. lens immediately after putting it up 
the tjrphoid baciUi will be found to be actively moving across the field in all direc- 
tions, but if the serum be from a typhoid patient they will soon begin to run 
together into clumps, most markedly in the 1 in 20 dilution to start with. The 
shde should be examined occasionally up to the end of one hour, which is the time 
limit for the reaction with a living culture, and the degree of clumping noted at 
the end of this period, if complete reaction has not taken place in the highest 
dilution before that time has elapsed. The reaction is complete in any given 
dilution when not only have large clumps formed, but also any organisms remain- 
ing free have ceased to move actively right across the field of the microscope. This 
active movement must be carefully distinguished from the Brownian motion 
common to all small particles suspended in a fluid, which produces constant circular 
motion of the free organisms, but will not rapidly translate them across the 
field, as when in active movement. This Brownian movement will be found 
after complete clumping is present. If such complete clumping in the 1 in 100 
dilution occurs in well under the hour, it wiU be found also to take place with con- 
siderably higher dilutions, although there is no necessity to go further than a 1 
in 100, as reactions in this dilution are reliable evidence of the presence of typhoid. 

For Malta fever dilutions of 1 in 40, 1 in 80, 1 in 160 and higher if desired, 
are made in a similar manner, equal parts of the diluted serum and an emulsion 
of the culture in sterile normal salt solution being put up. 



26 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE MACROSCOPICAL METHOD.— Although I much prefer the micro- 
scopical test when facihties for carrying it out are available, yet with due care 
results of great practical value can be obtained with the macroscopical method, this 
has the advantage that an emulsion of dead typhoid bacilli or the micrococcus 
mehtensis and some glass tubing are the only requisites for the test, so that it 
can be carried out in the absence of facilities for cultivation of the organisms ; this 
obviously makes it much more widely available in tropical countries. 

The dilutions are made precisely as described in the microscopical method, 
but after expelling the measured quantities of diluted serum and emulsion into 
a watch glass to thoroughly mix them, the fluid is once more made to run up the 
capillary tube, so as to form a long unbroken column in its upper part, and then 
the lower end is sealed by heat. The tubes containing the different dilutions 
are marked with a wax pencil and stood upright in a test tube for about twenty- 
four hours. At the end of this time they are carefully examined for precipitate, 
and it will be found if the reaction is a negative one, that the whole column 
of fluid is still fairly uniformly hazy or opaque, as in a control tube \\dth equal 
parts of salt solution and emulsion only, which should always be put up at the 
same time as the serum dilutions. On the other hand, a complete reaction with 
any given dilution will show a dense white precipitate at the bottom of the column 
of fluid, the remaining upper portion of which will be quite clear. Partial 
precipitation may indicate an incomplete reaction. 

In order to get reliable results with this method it is essential that the blood 
serum used for making the dilutions should be free from blood corpuscles, which 
will fall to the bottom of the column and simulate a precipitate of the organisms. 
To ensure this it is best to centrifuge the serum in the collecting tube before using 
it, or if a centrifuger is not available the corpuscles will fall to the bottom of the 
blood serum on allowing it to stand for one hour before using it. In order to be 
sure that the precipitate in the capillary tubes is really due to clumping, at the 
end of twenty-four hours, when the reaction is being noted, the end of the tube 
should be broken off and the precipitate expelled and microscoped to see if com- 
plete clumping has taken place. With these precautions the test is a valuable 
one, and it is easily carried out under the ordinary conditions of practice in the 
tropics. The indications to be derived from positive reactions in different dilutions 
are discussed for typhoid on p. 139, and for Malta fever on p. 168. 

CULTIVATION OF BACTERIA FROM THE BLOOD 

The weak point of the serum test, especially in the case of typhoid, is that 
it so commonly fails in the first week or ten days of the fever, just when, in fact, 
it is most wanted, for after that date the nature of the case will usually be quite 
evident clinically. Further, it is, by no means rarely, negative in the later stages 
of true typhoid, when it will be positively misleading. For these reasons the 
much more reliable and earUer available method of cultivating the tj^hoid bacillus 
from the blood is being increasingly used ; it also enables cases of paratyphoid to be 
differentiated, and is therefore a most important method of research in the investiga- 
tion of doubtful fevers. 



I 



TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN FEVERS 27 

VEIN PUNCTURE. — Owing to the organisms being only present in the peripheral 
blood in scanty numbers it is essential to obtain several cc. in a sterile manner, 
and to dilute the blood taken as soon as possible in several hundred cc. of a suitable 
broth culture medium in order to weaken or prevent the bactericidal action of 
the blood. For this purpose the very simple, and almost painless, little operation 
of vein puncture must be performed. As a rule, one of the large veins at the bend 
of the elbow is the most convenient, although I have also used those on the back 
of the hand, which are easily rendered very prominent. The skin over the selected 
vessel must be most carefully steriHzed as for a surgical operation, a dressing of 
perchloride and spirit lotion 1 in 500 being finally applied for half an hour or longer. 
A bandage is tied round the upper arm in a bow so that it can be quickly loosened, 
a small pad of cotton wool being placed beneath it over the large vessels on the 
inner side, until the veins stand out well dilated with blood. The sterile needle 
of a 5 to 10 cc. syringe is plunged through the sterilized skin into the vein with 
its point downwards towards the fingers, and if the vessel has been entered the 
blood rushes in as the piston is raised and it becomes filled in a second or two. 
If the vein is not at once entered the needle should be partially withdrawn and 
another plunge at the vein made subcutaneously, the point of the needle being 
held nearly parallel with the skin to avoid all risk of injuring the brachial art«ry, 
if the median basilic vein has been chosen. In well nourished female native 
patients it is often very difficult to make the veins stand out from the subcutaneous 
fat in which they are embedded, but usually a bluish appearance in the position 
of the median basiHc vein will furnish a sufficient guide to aUow of its being readily 
punctured. As soon as enough blood has been obtained the bandage is loosened, 
and then the needle is withdrawn, a pad of antiseptic material being immediately 
placed over the puncture. Friar's balsam or collodion on a httle cotton wool 
are convenient apphcations, these may be removed on the following day. Two 
or more flasks of 300 to 500 cc. of broth should be used for diluting the blood, not 
more than 1 cc. being added to each 200 of broth, and they are then incubated 
at blood heat. When the blood has to be taken at a distance from the laboratory 
I frequently run it from the syringe into a sterile test-tube containing 1 or 2 cc. 
of 5 per cent, citrate of soda, to prevent its clotting, and subsequently add it to 
a broth flask on reaching the laboratory by means of sterile pipettes. The earlier 
the dilution is made, the greater the chance of a successful culture. 

In the case of typhoid fever a growth may be found within 24 hours, and it 
should be tested with a specific agglutinating serum of high capacity as the quickest 
way of ascertaining if it is a true typhoid bacillus, the other laboratory culture 
tests being subsequently carried out. In the case of Malta fever four or five days 
are commonly necessary, according to the Royal Society Commissioners, for the 
growth of the organism from the blood in broth. 

The great advantages of this test are the certainty which it affords, and the 
fact that in typhoid it is available from the second or third day onwards, that 
is long before the Widal reaction can usually be obtained. Cultures from the 
blood in typhoid have furnished from 80 to 90 per cent, of positive results in the 



28 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

hands of different observers, being most frequently successful in the first week 
of the disease. 

Where any difficulty arises in obtaining permission to do a vein puncture, 
it is worth while to make cultiu-es from a smaller quantity of blood obtained by 
deeply pricking a finger or the lobe of the ear, as when taking blood for a Widal test. 
For this purpose I have used a rather large curved collecting tube and run into it a 
fraction of ace. of 5 per cent, citrate of soda solution, sealed the ends and sterihzed them 
by moist heat. After disinfecting the skin it is pricked with a sterile needle and the 
blood is made to run into the citrate tube after breaking off its ends, when it is 
sealed up again in the usual way. In this manner I have occasionally cultivated the 
typhoid bacillus by expelling the fluid blood into a broth flask, especially in severe 
cases of the disease. In Malta fever the micrococcus has also been obtained from 
small quantities of blood, so this method may be of value in the diagnosis of 
that fever. Other observers have cultivated the typhoid bacillus from blood sent 
for Widal tests, but only in small proportion of the cases. 

SPLEEN PUNCTURE. — In 1835 Twining described an old Indian method 
of puncturing the spleen with sohd needles when it was greatly enlarged, and 
practised it himself with apparently favourable results as far as reduction in the 
size of the organ was concerned. Recently it has been revived for the purpose 
of obtaining material for microscopical or cultiu*al examination, the hoUow needle 
of a hypodermic syringe being used. This is the most certain way of finding the 
parasites of kala-azar, while such organisms as those of typhoid and Malta fever 
can be certainly grown from the spleen pulp thus obtained. The operation, however, 
is very rarely required in the latter diseases now that the method of obtaining 
the bacteria from the peripheral blood just described has been found to be effectual, 
while in kala-azar so many fatalities have followed it that much caution is 
necessary in using it in that condition, and it has become less frequently 
called for since our cHnical and simpler microscopical methods of diagnosing this 
disease have become more precise. It is especially in advanced cases of kala-azar, 
with a marked degree of anaemia, that spleen puncture is so dangerous, while 
in such cases the diagnosis is very rarely at all difficult if the patient has been 
under observation for a few days and the ordinary blood coimts made. In 
these anaemic patients there may be a marked reduction in the coagulability 
of the blood, so that this should be tested before the operation is undertaken in 
them, and if the blood does not clot in Wright's tubes within five minutes, 
spleen puncture should on no account be performed. 

In carrying out the operation the skin over the organ is first sterilized. A 
small 2 or 3 cc. hjrpodermic syringe with a fine, but strong needle about 2 in. 
in length, is plunged deeply into the enlarged organ through the abdominal wall, 
preferably in the right linea semilunaris, if the organ is much enlarged. The 
piston, which must be tightly fitting, so as to have considerable suction power, 
is now gradually withdrawn, and if a few drops of blood slowly enter, it wiU 
be sure to contain spleen pulp and be satisfactory for examining. If, however, 



TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN FEVERS 29 

the blood enters the syrmge very rapidly a vein must have been entered, and the 
blood will contain few if any parasites. In that case it is well to withdraw the 
needle partly, pass it in another direction, and again apply suction. As the 
needle is finally taken out, a piece of cotton wool soaked in carboUc or other anti- 
septic is firmly applied over the puncture, and digital pressure should be kept 
up for several minutes, a dose of 30 grains of calcium chloride in an ounce or 
two of water being administered at once, so as to increase the clotting power 
of the blood. If the blood has run very readily into the sjncinge the pressure 
should be kept up for at least 10 minutes, by which time the calcium salt will 
have had time to act. The patient should be kept lying in bed for 24 hours 
after the operation. With the preliminary testing of the coagulability and 
the above precautions spleen puncture can be safely performed, although it should 
never be looked on as other than a serious undertaking. 

Some writers have recommended puncturing the hver in preference to the 
spleen as being less dangerous. The organisms of kala-azar can certainly be found 
in the liver blood, although shghtly less readily than in that of the spleen, and 
where the former organ was much enlarged and the spleen only shghtly so I have 
punctured the liver successfully in preference. In other conditions the spleen 
blood is the more likely to furnish organisms on culture. It is in early doubtful 
cases that spleen puncture furnishes the most valuable information, and it is 
then also least dangerous. 

REFERENCES TO THE TECHNIQUE OF THE EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD IN 

FEVERS 

1905. Da Costa, J. C. Clinical Haematology. 2nd edition. 

1903. Daniels, C. W. Studies in Laboratory Work. 

1905. Noc, F. Technique de microbiologie tropicale. 

1895. Wright, A. E. and Semple, D.. Note on the Technique of Serum Diagnosis of Acute 
Specific Fevers. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, pp. 139 and 258. 

1897. Wright, A. E., and Semple, D. On the Employment of Dead Bacteria in the Seriun 

Diagnosis of Typhoid and Malta Fevers. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 1,214. 

1898. Wright, A. E. A Fiirther Note on the Technique of Serum Diagnosis. Brit. Med. 

Jour., Vol. I, 355. 
1901. Stephens, J. W. W., and Christophers, S. R. The Increase in the Number of Large 
Mononuclear Leucocytes as a Diagnostic Sign of Malaria. Royal Soc. Malarial 
Committee Reports. Fifth series. 

1904. Bassett-Smith, P. W. Lessons that can be Learnt from the Examination of the Blood 

as a Means of Diagnosis. Naval Report for 1904, p. 135. 
1904. Tullock, F. An Alternative Solvent of the Leishman Stain. Jour. Roy. Army Med. 

Corps, Vol. Ill, p. 167. 
1904. Leishman, W. B. A Method of Producing Chromatin Staining in Sections. Jour, of 

Hygiene, p. 434. 

1906. Harrison, W. S. A Rapid and Practical Method of Diagnosing Typhoid Fever. Jour. 

Roy. Army Med. Corps, Vol. VII, p. 126. 

1907. Balfour, A. Note on the Differential Leucocyte Count, with Special Reference to 

Dengue. Jour. Tro. Med., p. 113. 



A, Fevers of Long Duration 

(Milroy Lectures Amplified) 

KALA-AZAR 

THE ORIGIN AND COURSE OF THE EPIDEMIC IN ASSAM 

DEFINITION — Kala-azar is the epidemic manifestation of a fever, endemic in exten- 
sive areas of India, which has spread slowly for thirty years up the Assam valley as a 
wave of greatly-increased mortality, dying out largely as it passes on, after causing a 
decrease in the population of the affected tracts and the falling out of cultivation 
of much land, travelling along lines of communication, checked by high eleva- 
tions and extensive areas of unpopulated jungle, and now happily largely on the 
decrease. It is precisely similar in nature to a previous epidemic in Bengal known 
as " Burdwan fever." Cases of the epidemic disease, individually considered, are 
identical with the sporadic form known for centuries as " malarial cachexia," and 
are characterized by very persistent fever, of an alternating, remittent, and inter- 
mittent type, commonly mistaken for typhoid in the earlier remittent stage, but 
rapidly leading to a cachectic condition, with great enlargement of the spleen and 
later of the liver, and extreme wasting, the fever lasting from a few months to several 
years, and commonly terminated by some complicating affection ; the mortaUty 
averaging 96 per cent. The disease in its progressive stages is constantly 
associated with, and pretty certainly caused by, a minute protozoal organism, 
which has been shown by a remarkable cultivation outside the human body to be 
one stage of a flagellated parasite, while a study of the conditions most favourable 
to this development of its extra-corporeal stage strongly indicate some biting insect 
as the carrier of the infection — a view which is also in accordance with a number 
of facts regarding the spread of the disease and the success which has attended 
efforts to check its further extension and to stamp it out of infected places, 
made before the discovery of the parasite, and also recently confirmed by certain 
feeding experiments. 

I propose first to deal with the subject in its epidemiological aspect ; then to deal 
with it as a disease, individually considered ; and lastly to describe the life-history 
of the parasite and its bearing on the mode of infection. 

Before describing the spread of this epidemic through Assam it will be well 
to say a few words on the topography of that Province, the main features of which 
are shown in the map on p. 34, which I have prepared to illustrate the outbreak 



32 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

up to the end of 1905. The country is bounded on the north by the mighty Hima- 
layas, a little to the south of which the wide spreading Brahmaputra River runs from 
east to west through a fertile, but thinly populated alluvial valley, which is limited 
on the south by the Naga, Khasia and Garo Hills, from 6,000 to 4,000 feet in height, 
round the lower western portion of which the Brahmaputra bends southward to 
join the Ganges in Eastern Bengal. The western two- thirds of this valley which 
will be found to be shaded in the map is the district which has been devastated by 
kala-azar. To the south of the Khasia and Garo HiUs is the shorter Surma valley, 
comprised of the districts of Mymensingh, Sylhet and Cachar, in which sporadic 
kala-azar exists, but this part has escaped the epidemic in a manner to be explained 
later. 

THE ORIGIN OF THE EPIDEMIC— Kala-azar first attracted pubUc 
attention in 1882, when Dr. Clarke, the Sanitary Commissioner with the Govern- 
ment of Assam, in his annual report, gave an account of the disease based on the 
notes of 120 cases compiled by Mx. McNaught, the Civil Medical Officer of the Garo 
Hills. He described it as a very severe form of malarial cachexia, which was depopu- 
lating certain areas at the foot of the Garo Hills, believed by the Garos themselves to 
be infectious, and obtaining its name from a peculiar dusky hue which the sufferers 
presented, the name meaning " black fever." The disease has been known there 
in its sporadic form since 1869, when the country was occupied by the British, 
but the exact date of origin of the epidemic was obscure when I went to Assam in 
1896. I therefore visited the Garo Hills to examine aU the medical and administra- 
tive records, and ascertained that the Government land rent was paid in full up to 
1875, when it was recorded that a deficiency occurred in some of the villages at the 
south-west comer of the district owing to several families having died of kala-azar, 
and from this time onwards it was regularly referred to year by year, as causing 
the deaths of a large proportion of the people of various villages, thus occasioning 
a loss of revenue and depopulating certain areas at the foot of the hiUs just to the 
east of the Brahmaputra River. In 1881 numerous villages had quite disappeared, 
and the epidemic travelled towards the centre of the hUls, and then by a bridle path 
out again to the foot of the hiUs on the north side to reach Damra, in the south of 
the Goalpara district. It is clear, then, that although the disease had doubtless 
been present for some time in a sporadic form at the western foot of the Garo Hills, 
just as it is known to have been in the Rungpore district on the west of the 
Brahmaputra River, yet it was not until 1875 that it assumed the epidemic spreading 
form, depopulating large tracts of country, and immediately causing a marked loss 
of revenue — characteristics which it maintained during its subsequent spread up 
the Assam Valley during the succeeding three decades. 

Moreover, about 1875, the disease also appeared in an epidemic form in a village 
to the south of Dubri, some 50 miles north of the above-mentioned place of origin, 
a distance which it subsequently took about five years to traverse, and it is worthy 
of note that these two places were each situated close to where a ferry crossed the 
Brahmaputra River from Rungpore ; while in two of the earlier reports on the 



ASSAM EPIDEAnC OF KALA-AZAR 33 

disease it is stated that the Garos themselves asserted that the epidemic came from 
Rungpore. Now, between 1871 and 1876 there was a terrible outbreak of fever in 
the Rungpore and the neighbouring, more westerly, Dinajpur districts, which was 
noted as especially affecting the low banks and islands of the Brahmaputra River 
in 1875 (and consequently doubtless involving the foot of the Garo Hills), and causing 
a decrease in the population of Rungpore between the two censuses of 1872 and 
1881, against a marked increase in Bengal generally. This fever outbreak was 
coincident with an unprecedented series of five out of six years of deficient rainfall, 
while to this day short rains are always accompanied by excessive fever mortality 
in this part of Bengal ; so that there can be little doubt that the epidemic was 
caused by this extraordinary succession of unhealthy seasons, which I suggested in 
my original report intensified the ordinary malarial fever of the district until it 
assumed a spreading epidemic form. The explanation of the phenomenon in 
accordance with the now known pathology of the disease I must leave untU other 
points have been discussed. 

THE SPREAD OF THE EPIDEMIC— The details of the spread of the 
disease have been embodied in the accompanying map of Assam, the large figures, 
such as 75-83 in the Garo Hills, showing the years during which there was a marked 
increase in the fever death-rate in each of the affected districts, while the smaller 
separate ones illustrate the exact year in which the disease was noted to have 
commenced in that particular place. It is noteworthy that the southern higher 
portion of the Garo HiUs largely escaped the epidemic, while, although the disease 
first appeared at the extreme south-west of the hills, yet it never spread along the 
southern border into the thickly-populated tracts of Mymensingh and Sylhet ; 
the explanation of which will appear later. 

Coming next to the Goalpara district, we find that the large, sparsely-populated 
portion to the north of the Brahmaputra River was very little affected. On the 
other hand, the narrow southern terai ^ tract between the river and the low Garo 
and Khasia Hills, and traversed by the grand trunk road from opposite Dubri to the 
headquarters of Goalpara, and on through the southern portion of the Kamrup 
district to the large town of Gauhati, suffered very severely. Goalpara was at its 
worst between 1882 and 1887, reKef works being started there in 1884, the disease 
being still reported to be only malarial in nature and certainly not contagious, 
while as early as this it was stated that " the epidemic is extending, although this is 
counterbalanced by the fact that it is now absent where it has been severe." More- 
over, in 1886 it was recorded of a tract of the Garo Hills some 70 miles in extent, 
which had suffered most severely from the disease, " It would be hard to find one 
single case of the real disease, kala-azar." It is clear from this that the decline of 
the epidemic is just as marked a feature as its rapid rise in any district. 

In the meanwhile the southern part of Kamrup was invaded, and some of the 
villages on the north bank of the great river gradually became infected, about 10 

^ Terai is a general term applied to submontane tracts in the tropics, which are usually 
intensely malarial. 

3 




a 

to 

9 

3 



34 



ASSAM EPIDEMIC OF KALA-AZAR 35 

miles of new country being invaded each year where communications were good, 
while the disease leapt on into the town of Gauhati in 1888 in accordance with the 
more active intercourse between that place and the infected villages, than with 
some of the intervening and later affected hamlets. On the north bank the spread 
was less rapid, on account of the slighter active communication between the more 
scattered villages of that tract, there being no much-frequented main road 
through it. Once Gauhati became severely infected, the disease spread across the 
river by a main road into the westerly Mangaldai subdivision of the Darrang 
district, and at the same time it continued its steady eastward course along the 
trunk road into the Nowgong district, leaping on once more into the town of that 
name in 1890. 

In the meantime, in 1887, attention had been drawn to the discovery in Ceylon 
of the anchylostomum duodenale as a cause of much of the anaemia in coolies, or 
so-called " beri-beri," and Dr. Ruddock in Assam showed thatthisparasitecommonly 
caused severe anaemia among immigrant coolies there too, and that the disease was 
readily cured by thymol. In 1888 Dr. Costello, who had become administrative 
medical officer, records that it is the opinion of himself and of the best civil surgeons 
of the province that kala-azar was only a severe malarial fever, and that it was not 
contagious, but he asked for a special medical officer to be appointed to investigate the 
disease, and late in 1889 Dr. Giles was sent to Assam to inquire into both kala-azar 
and the anaemia due to anchylostomes, and submitted a preliminary report in May 
1890, and a final one in October of the same year. He found that " the greater 
number certainly presented more or less the prominent symptoms of malarial poison- 
ing," but as enlarged spleen was very common in healthy people in Assam " it is 
obviously absurd to attach any pathognomonic importance to the symptom in 
connexion with the etiology of kala-azar," and, finding anchylostomes present in 
several post mortems and in the faeces of a large portion of the cases, he concluded 
that " Whatever kala-azar might be elsewhere, the disease so-called in Gauhati 
was undoubtedly anchylostomiasis." He then proceeded to study anaemia of 
coolies in the eastern part of the valley, where there was no kala-azar whatever, 
and wrote that " Nothing here struck me so strongly as the absolute identity of 
the clinical pictures presented by these cases of acknowledged anchylostomiasis 
with those I had just been seeing so much of under the name of kala-azar." He 
remarks that malarial cachexia is very common in Assam, and that a very large 
proportion of the cases show enlarged spleen, but although malaria causes an in- 
crease in the death rate, there has been no change in the country which could 
intensify it, and " it is entirely inadequate to serve as the efficient cause of the 
terrible death-rate of kala-azar-stricken villages, and the true cause of this will be 
found to be neither more or less than anchylostomiasis." If we read these state- 
ments in the light of the fact that when Dr. Dodds Price in 1894 took a series 
of typical kala-azar cases up the river to show to all the tea-garden medical 
men of the districts not then affected with the epidemic, they were unanimously 
of the opinion that the disease did not exist in their districts ; then it becomes 
clear that the identity of the clinical pictures of anaemia of coolies or anchylo- 



36 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

stomiasis in Upper Assam, then free from kala-azar, with this disease as seen 
by Dr. Giles in Gauhati can only be explained by his having rejected tj^ical 
cases of kala-azar with their characteristic huge spleens as being " merely the 
common malarial cachexia of Assam," and only regarded cases of anaemia of 
coolies as being the true cause of the increased mortality, that is kala-azar as he 
saw it ; an error which was aU the easier to fall into, because when I visited Assam six 
years later anchylostomiasis certainly appeared to me to be more common in the 
Gauhati district where Dr. GUes worked, than in Nowgong, in which most of my cases 
were seen. Unfortunately Dr. Giles did not examine healthy people for anchylo- 
stomes, and when soon after Dr. Dobson showed that nearly 80 per cent, of healthy 
imported coolies, who had passed two medical examinations, harboured this parasite, 
usually in small numbers. Dr. Giles' theory received a fatal blow, and in 1896 a fresh 
investigation was ordered, which I was fortunate enough to be selected to undertake. 
In the meanwhile the disease had much decreased in the Goalpara and Kamrup 
districts, but had further involved Darrang and overrun Nowgong, where it had 
caused the most frightful mortality. Dr. Warburton in 1893 concluded that if the 
malarial condition in Assam could be done away with, kala-azar would cease to exist, 
and all the civil surgeons but one were agreed that the anchylostomes were not a 
cause of the disease, which it was impossible to distinguish from malaria, although 
the steady spread of the epidemic was very difficult to explain on the malarial 
theory. Dr. Neil Campbell of Gauhati, however, thought that anchylostomiasis 
was a complicating cause in 75 per cent, of the cases. Colonel A. Stephen, then 
administrative medical officer of Assam, in his report for 1894, summed up the 
evidence for and against its being malarial, including among the latter the failure 
of anti-malarial remedies and its steady spread up the river ; and concluded, 
" I am under the impression that, although aUied to malarial fever, it is probably 
a separate disease." 

In the course of a year's work I made a minute clinical and microscopical study 
of the disease. Special attention was paid to the blood changes, which enabled me 
to show that the anaemia of kala-azar was of the pernicious type, and differed so 
markedly from the chlorotic form of anchylostomiasis, as to allow of the two dis- 
eases being clearly distinguished by this point alone. Further, kala-azar was very 
rarely complicated by actual anchylostomiasis (that is, disease produced by a large 
number of the worms, not the mere presence of a minute and harmless number such 
as exist in the great majority of healthy natives of India), thus finally disproving 
Giles' theory. Moreover, I found malarial parasites frequently present in the blood 
in all stages of the disease ; a complication which is now readily explained by the 
then unknown fact, that in very malarious parts a large proportion of the apparently 
healthy people harbour the organisms of this disease. Thus, on revisiting the 
Nowgong district in 1904, I found the percentage of healthy children . showing the 
malarial parasite in their blood to be no less than 80 in one of the very tea 
gardens where I had studied kala-azar in 1896. I was much impressed with 
the difficulties in regarding the epidemic as an ordinary malarial fever, and 
thought that some special variety of the parasite might be present, at least in the 



I 



COURSE OF THE EPIDEMIC OF KALA-AZAR 



37 



"early stages. I, therefpre, examined the blood and made full notes of apparently 
ordinary malarial fevers in the houses of kala-azar patients, and carefully followed 
them up for months : but could find no differences in the parasites seen in those who 
readily responded to quinine, and those which resisted its action and ran on into 
typical kala-azar. Moreover, the melanotic pigment of malaria was proved to be 
constantly present in the organs post mortem, so that as no means of distinguishing 
the disease from malaria at any stage were to be found — for the typical cachectic 
condition was identical with what had always been known as "malarial cachexia " for 
centuries in Lower Bengal, but which we now know to be frequently the sporadic or 
endemic form of kala-azar — I was reluctantly compelled to conclude that " The 
disease, then, is a very intense form of malarial fever," but I added, " It is, however, 
open for any one to say that there is something in the disease in addition to malaria 
which I have not discovered, but which accounts for the spread of the affection." The 
facts regarding the origin of the disease already dealt with were worked out, and much 
information as to the probable mode of infection collected, which enabled me to make 
some practical suggestions, the success of which exceeded even my most sanguine 
expectations. The view which I put forward that the disease was but an intensified 
spreading form of malaria was not accepted in its entirety by Dr. Stephen, but it 
met with considerable support in Assam and other parts of India, although opposed 
by some English authorities on tropical diseases, including Sir Patrick Manson, 
but the difficulty in my view of regarding malaria as an infectious disease largely 
vanished when Ronald Ross's classical researches on the communication of malaria 
through the mosquito were published, and still more when this great authority on 
malaria after a personal investigation of kala-azar in Assam in 1899, endorsed my 
opinion and concluded after a careful discussion ; "I think then, with Rogers, that 
kala-azar is malarial fever." 

To return to the progress of the epidemic, we now arrive at a critical point, for 
the disease had reached the beginning of a narrow tract with but few inhabitants 
between the low Mikir Hills and the Brahmaputra River, which stretches for some 
40 miles before opening out again into the broader plain of the Golaghat sub-division 
of the Sibsagar district. I travelled through this country, and found it to be 
still free from the dreaded kala-azar ; but people from the affected tracts of Now- 
gong were already beginning to move towards Golaghat, and if nothing was done it 
could only be a matter of time before the open, more populated Upper Assam Valley 
became infected, and the most favourable opportunity which had yet occurred of 
staying the epidemic would be lost for ever. I therefore strongly urged in my 
report that infected persons should be prevented from traversing this area, and gave 
directions for dealing with any villages which might be attacked, and these measures 
were promptly sanctioned and put into operation by Sir Henry Cotton. 

The subsequent history shows a steady decline in the prevalence of the disease, 
with the exception of slow extension in the already-infected Darrang district north 
of the Brahmaputra River, although, owing to the population being much scattered 
in this, as in all the northern districts of the Assam Valley, its ravages have been less 
here than in Nowgong and other earlier infected parts. In 1898 the fever death-rate 



38 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

began to decrease in the Nowgong district, while an inquiry showed that it had not 
yet advanced into Sibsagar, and " precautions had been taken to treat all suspicious 
cases on the frontier, and check the further advance at the outset." These measures 
have proved eminently successful, for, although a small outbreak did actually occur 
in 1899 on the borders of Golaghat, the cases were promptly isolated, and the epi- 
demic never gained a firm foothold in this district, and no increased fever mortality 
has appeared there, while the marked decline of the epidemic in Nowgong during 
the next three years has now largely removed the danger of its further spread east- 
ward. In 1901 the epidemic is said to have almost died out of Goalpara and 
Kamrup, while parts of Nowgong were quite free, and only clironic cases were to be 
seen in the rest of the district. In the following year very little of the disease 
remained even in Nowgong, although it still continued in scattered villages in 
Darrang, but showed little of its original powers of extension. 

In 1902 the medical profession in India were startled by yet another theory 
concerning the nature of the disease, for Dr. Bentley of the Darrang district 
announced that kala-azar was nothing but an " epidemic Malta fever," on the 
strength of serum reactions in 75 per cent, of a small series of cases, in dilutions of 
only 1 in 10 to 1 in 40, obtained at the Kasauli Institute, although in a previous 
series he had sent to me as cases resembling Malta fever I had not been able to obtain 
any positive reactions. Further observations which I made with the Malta fever 
organism, kindly supplied me by D. Semple, R.A.M.C., of Kasauli, showed that 
reactions in the low dilutions mentioned could occasionally be obtained with the 
blood of other diseases than Malta fever, and it has been since acknowledged officially 
that such low dilutions as had been employed in the kala-azar tests were of no 
diagnostic value. Dr. Bentley has now abandoned his theory. 

KALA-AZAR IN SYLHET. — At the very time that the epidemic began 
to show such a marked decline in the Brahmaputra valley, the fever death rate in 
Sylhet showed an extraordinary increase, rising from 1571 per mille in 1896 to 3089 
in 1897, closely follo^^dng the terrible earthquake in June of that year which caused 
extensive floods in the rainy season. In 1 898 the fever death rate was 1 9* 1 4 per mille, 
but feU to 15- 38 in the following year, and during the succeeding lustrum declined 
steadily to only 8- 73 in 1905, It is clear from these figures that there was only a very 
temporary increase in the fever death rate in this large and thickly populated 
district, evidently due to the marked physical changes produced by the earthquake, 
and there was no prolonged fever wave lasting for about a decade, such as occurred 
in all the districts involved by the epidemic in the northern valley. Nevertheless the 
great temporary rise in the fever mortaUty in Sylhet naturally attracted much atten- 
tion, and lead to careful inquiries being instituted to ascertain if kala-azar had 
invaded the district. In 1899 some villages were reported to be aft'ected by the 
disease, and in one instance moving the village site, in accordance vnth my earlier 
recommendation, had a good effect in reducing the number of cases. In 1900 
Hospital Assistant Kailas Chandra Das was deputed to tour in Sylhet and report on 
the prevalence of kala-azar, and he submitted diaries of all he saw, which Colonel 




Plate 3.— Group of sporadic Kala-azar patients in Sylhet (Assam). 



[To face page 38. 



KALA-AZAR— SPORADIC OCCURRENCES 39 

D. Wilkie has kindly allowed me to peruse. He reported that the disease was 
widespread throughout the district, although more prevalent in some areas than in 
others, and prompt steps were taken to put into operation all the measures advised 
in my 1897 report. In 1904 a further inquiry was made into the prevalence of the 
disease in Sylhet by the Civil Surgeon, Major E. Hall, I.M.S., who reported that 
" kala-azar occurs, though not epidemically, throughout the valley, and that malaria 
is very prevalent," the protozoal parasite of the disease, which had in the meantime 
been discovered, being obtained by Hall in cases in Sylhet, and also later by 
S. P. James, I.M.S. Now a careful study of the diary of the hospital assistant, taken 
with Hall's statement just quoted, clearly shows that the disease prevalent in Sylhet 
was of the sporadic form such as is endemic in the contiguous districts of Eastern 
Bengal, and both the above reports appear to have overlooked the fact that in my 
report of 1897 I stated that I visited Sylhet for the purpose of seeing cases of 
" malarial cachexia " in a district which was free from the kala-azar epidemic, and 
that I found a number of cases which, individually considered, were identical with 
kala-azar of the Brahmaputra valley, as illustrated by photos of cases shown in plate 
(opposite page), only they were of a more chronic type and did not present the same 
rapidity of course or the spreading characters of the epidemic disease. Indeed it 
was this close resemblance between the sporadic cases always regarded as " malarial 
cachexia " in Lower Bengal and in Sylhet and the Assam epidemic disease, which 
forced me to the conclusion that the more serious spreading affection was but an 
intensified forms of the poradic " malarial cachexia " and this view is now seen to be 
correct, with the all important modification introduced by the discovery of the parasite 
of kala-azar, namely that the great majority of cases hitherto known as " malarial 
cachexia " in Lower Bengal and Assam (as well as in Madras) are not malarial at all, 
but due to the recently discovered protozoal parasite of kala-azar. 

We may now return to the question, Why did the epidemic of kala-azar not 
spread to the Mymensingh and Sylhet districts to the South of the Garo HiUs as well 
as round the foot of the hUls into the Brahmaputra valley ? Bearing in mind the 
unanimous opinion of every medical officer in the unaffected eastern half of the 
northern valley that kala-azar is absolutely unknown there (although cases of the 
malarial cachexia, which may easily be mistaken for it, doubtless are occasionally 
seen) while the sporadic disease has been present, probably for very many years in 
the southern vaUey ; we at once find an explanation of the course of the epidemic, 
namely that it travelled through the virgin soil of the northern valley previously 
unaffected by the sporadic form of the disease and there found a population fully sus- 
ceptible to its deadly influences and hence was able to work such terrible havoc. 
If this view of the epidemic is correct, it is clear that unceasing vigilance must 
continue to be exercised to protect the unaffected upper part of the Assam valley 
from the insidious extension of the disease, for although the danger from the Nowgong 
side has been happily averted by the prompt adoption of the measures I advocated, 
yet as long as the disease continues to linger in the scattered villages of the Darrang 
district the danger of its recrossing the river into Sibsagar is not at an end, 
while a fresh outbreak may in the future be lighted up by some such extraordinary 



40 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

succession of unhealthy years as caused the spreading epidemic at the foot of 
the Garo Hills to originate in 1875. 

THE EFFECT OF THE EPIDEMIC ON THE FEVER DEATH RATE AND 
ON THE POPULATION. — I have now traced the course of the epidemic, but 
in order to give some more definite idea of the disastrous effects of the fever wave, 
which has spread through some 300 miles of the Assam Valley during the last thirty 
years, I have prepared a diagram (Diagram II) showing in elevation the annual 
number of deaths returned as due to fever in each of the districts traversed. The 
death rates per miUe of population are also shown in the dark lines, but present 
some irregularities due to their being calculated on fresh census figures in 1890 and 
1900. As the death rates for the Garo Hills are not available, the first district to 
be dealt with is Goalpara, the smaller southern part of which alone was severely 
affected by the disease. Only the figures for the whole district are available ; but, 
nevertheless, they show a marked increase on the fever death rate from 1883 to 
1888, followed by a steady dechne, only broken by increases due to influenza in 
1891, and to famine and earthquake respectively in 1896 and 1897. 

Coming next to the Kamrup district, we find again a marked fever mortality 
wave a little later than that in Goalpara, namely, from 1888 to 1894, followed once 
more by a steady faU, except for the later unhealthy years already mentioned, to 
reach much the same rate as before the outbreak, clearly showing how definite is the 
decline of the epidemic disease, although it doubtless leaves behind it some sporadic 
cases of kala-azar. 

It is not, however, until we come to the Nowgong district, the whole of which 
was swept through by this deadly fever, that the full magnitude of the disaster 
to such a thinly-populated country as Assam is clearly seen. Beginning to suffer 
in 1892, when Kamrup was past its worst, the fever death rate rose by leaps 
and bounds from an average of about 4,000 a year previously to 1892 
up to over 14,000 in 1897, and then declining still more rapidly to under 
6,000 in 1900, and an average of about 4,000 once more during the last five years. 
The completeness of this fall, however, is partly due to the frightful depopulation 
of the district by the epidemic, for the death rate per mille during the last few years 
averaged about 15' 5 against 13 before the outbreak. The broken line indicates 
the birth rate per mille of Nowgong, which also shows a marked decline during the 
height of the epidemic, as might have been expected, and helps to explain the great 
decrease of population to be referred to presently. 

Next we come to Darrang, which shows a less accentuated and more prolonged 
wave of increased fever mortality, due to the slow spread of the disease through this 
extensive district. Much of the increased number of fever deaths here shown, how- 
ever, is due to the rising population from extensive immigration ; and on turning to 
the fever deaths per mille, we find that the kala-azar wave extended from 1894 to 1899 
— ^that of 1892 having been due to influenza — during which the rate rose from 20 to 
30 per mille, falling again to an average of 23 during the last six years, a rate which 
is still above the average of 18 per mille before the invasion of kala-azar, thus indicat- 



I 
I 




Diagram II. — Yearly fever district death rate. 



42 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

ing a lingering of the disease in the last affected eastern portion of the district, which 
still to some extent threatens the Sibsagar and Lakhimpur divisions. 

In the lowest part of the diagram the fever rates of Sibsagar are given, the 
increase of the total numbers returned being solely due to increase of population ; 
for the death rate per mille is much the same as it was thirty years ago, thus demon- 
strating that there has been no wave of increased fever mortaUty in this area, 
such as occurred in the kala-azar infected tracts, and proving beyond doubt the 
success of the measures I advocated for preventing the devastation of this and the 
Lakhimpur districts, which contain a most important part of the Assam tea industry. 

Diagram III, showing the effect of the disease on the population of each district, 
as revealed by the figures of the last four censuses, speaks stUl more eloquently as 
to the terrible nature of the disaster. The variation in the indigenous population 
of each district, after allowing for immigration and emigration, during the last three 
decades is shown in the order in which they were attacked from left to right. The 
first part shows but a slight increase in the Garo Hills between 1872 and 1881, during 
part of which period the epidemic was present there. On the other hand, the remain- 
ing districts revealed a marked increase in the population varying from 10 to 24 
per cent. 

The second part of the diagram illustrates the variations in the population of the 
same districts between 1881 and 1891, during which kala-azar overran the southern 
parts of the Goalpara and Kamrup districts, and began to invade the western 
Mangaldai division of Darrang. The unshaded portion below the Une marked. 100 
shows the decrease in the population of the Goalpara subdivision in this decade 
to have amounted to no less than 18*08 per cent., against an increase during the 
same time in the northern unaffected part of the district of 19-36 per cent., which 
Mr. A. E. Gait, the Census Commissioner, estimated to mean that the " ravages of 
kala-azar are chiefly responsible for a reduction of 29,699 persons " in this subdivision. 
Again, there was a decrease of 1*6 per cent, in the population of Kamrup in the same 
decade, against an increase of 14-9 per cent, in the previous nine years, which Mr. 
Gait calculated meant a loss of 75,000 persons from the disease. Here, again, the 
decrease on the south, or badly affected, part of the district was 12 per cent., against 
an increase of only 2 per cent, on the north bank of the river. Darrang shows a 
stationary population in this period due to the invasion of Mangaldai, against an 
increase of 10 per cent, in the previous one. 

The third part of the diagram shows similar figures, for from 1891 to 1901, 
during which the population of the Goalpara district was practically stationary 
Kamrup showed a loss of 5 per cent., and Darrang of 8 per cent, of its people. During 
this decade Nowgong felt the full force of the epidemic, and its truly appalling nature 
is revealed by the fact that in these ten years, instead of an increase of 10 per cent., 
as between 1881 and 1891, there was actually a decrease of 24 per cent, of the total 
population of the district ; or, if the indigenous Assamese are alone considered, the 
loss was no less than 31 5 per cent., or almost one-third of the people — a death rate 
which far exceeds that of recent plague, and for which it would be difficult to find a 
modern parallel, unless it be that of the closely-allied sleeping sickness of Africa.. 



I 



tfl 




































I 














































































t 






























1 1 










































































1 


J 
















t 

. i 








































1 


0) 












f 








































































































\ ■ 


- 














I 














1 1 1 












1 








1 ^ 


. 


























































1 > 




























































^1 1 


_^ 


























































0) 
























































\ 


1 
























































i 


(0 
























































J 


























































.» 


f 












































"— t 










































































































































<9 




















































•- 






1 — . 


























































r< 
























































I 


OO 


1 






















































i 










i— 


li^ 






iv>r 


















i»i. 




.^ 


















— u 



— _o 

— 3 



«*«^>^>.>.^+++.5l 1 I II I I •' '' I I I' I II I • •' III 



6 



44 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

On the other hand, Sibsagar and Lakimpur again showed a substantial increase of 
the population, after allowing for immigration, indicating once more that this part 
of the valley was still unaffected by the disastrous fever. Moreover, the land has 
fallen out of cultivation in proportion to the loss of the inhabitants, for some figures 
kindly supplied to me by Mr. Gait showed that one-fourth of the land in the affected 
parts of Mangaldai was abandoned within five years, and one-fifth of that of Nowgong 
within a similar period ending in 1895, before the outbreak had nearly exhausted 
itself ; while no fewer than 54,179 persons were estimated to have died of kala-azar 
alone in this district in nine years. I myself frequently saw patches of grass jungle 
springing up in the midst of rice fields, and on inquiry always found that it had 
belonged to some family which had been exterminated by kala-azar shortly before, 
no one being left to till the land, which also lost its value completely as there was 
no demand for it. Happily this particular outbreak appears to be practically at an 
end, but it behoves us to study it carefully so as to be prepared to check at its outset 
any future epidemics which may arise, and also to inquire into any previous outbreaks 
of a similar nature, from which further lessons of a practical nature can be learnt. 

THE BURDWAN FEVER EPIDEMIC OF LOWER BENGAL, 1854-1873 

When reading the medical hterature which might help me in my investigation 
of kala-azar I was much struck with the resemblance between the Assam disease 
and the great fever wave which swept over much of Lower Bengal in the fifties and 
sixties generally known as the Burdwan fever from the division chiefly affected, 
and a careful examination of aU the medical reports available of those times soon 
showed me that the two outbreaks were certainly similar phenomena, although they 
were not directly connected with each other as I atone time thought might be the case. 
This I have dealt with elsewhere. The hterature of this old epidemic is immense, 
the best account being a very admirable and detailed report of Dr. Jackson, then 
Sanitary Commissioner of Bengal, written after a close personal study of the out- 
break extending over two seasons. But little is known as to the exact origin of 
this spreading fever except that it began in the very swampy district of Jessore, 
to the east of Calcutta, where repeated severe recrudescences of fever had occurred 
from time to time. At length in 1854-55 it began to extend into the neighbour- 
ing district of Nadia, and the twenty-four Pergunnahs, to the North of Calcutta, 
which were severely affected between 1857 to 1864, while as early as 1862-63 it 
crossed the Bhagiruti river, which separates Nadia on the west from the Burdwan 
division. From that time on to 1872 its exact spread year by year was worked out 
by Dr. Jackson, and presents certain points of interest. Thus it first spread slowly 
due westward until it reached the town of Burdwan in 1868, the road and lines 
of communication being in that direction, but as soon as the town of Burdwan 
became affected the disease began to extend to the north and south with greater 
rapidity than previously, in accordance with the fact that the main roads out 
of the town extended in those directions. Not only did the disease extend along 
the hnes of communication, just as I have mentioned was always the case with 





I 



auiUiii 



Plate 4. — Two very chronic sporadic Kala-azar patients. 



[To face page 45. 



KALA-AZAR— A SPORADIC DISEASE 45 

the later Assam epidemic, but, like the latter, its progress was also obstructed by- 
lack of ready intercourse between one place and another, as showTi by the entire 
escape of an area surrounded by rivers ' and small shallow lakes, and thus cut off 
very much from the surrounding country. Further, the fever took from 1862 to 
1869 to travel round from the northern part of the area first attacked to the west 
of the Bhagarathi river to a place only a few miles to the north-west of it on the 
same stream, but with no direct communication between the two, thus bearing 
out Dr. Jackson's statement, " Wherever there has been active intercourse, the fever 
had travelled ; where there has been little or none, it has died out." 

The next point of interest is the cessation of the epidemic, for this took place 
as soon as it reached the borders of the alluvial soil over which it had been extending, 
and arrived at the borders of the much drier laterite formation and the rising ground 
at the foot of the Chota Nagpur plateau, and the low hills of the Sonthal Pergunnahs. 
This was very marked in the Midnapore district where the alluvial parts were severely 
overrun, but the fever never seemed to be able to get a firm footing on the laterite 
areas. This cessation of the spread is precisely parallel to the influence of the hills 
surrounding the Assam valley in restraining that of kala-azar, for it was only the 
lower ranges of the Garo HiUs with their alluvial valleys and basins which were 
severely affected by the Assam outbreak. 

The terrible nature of the Burdwan epidemic depended largely on the affected 
areas being much more densely populated than the later attacked parts of Assam, 
for no less than a quarter of a million persons are estimated to have died in the Burd- 
wan division alone of the epidemic fever. The exact nature of the disease gave rise 
to almost as much controversy as its Assam prototype, the question of its contagious- 
ness being specially warmly debated. As it was almost universally regarded as 
being unquestionably malarial in its nature, this very fact was held by most to be 
positive proof that it could not be infectious ; just as was later on argued in Assam. 
Dr. Jackson concluded his very able report by writing : " While I believe the fever 
to be malarial in its origin, and to have some malarial characteristics, I believe 
it to be not a simple, but a contagious malarial fever ; that is probably typho-mal- 
arial, and that it has not been produced in Burdwan itself but imported." In the 
descriptions of the disease its identity with kala-azar is quite clear, with the excep- 
tion that a few cases terminating rapidly with coma were recorded — doubtless cere- 
bral malaria, naturally regarded as part of the outbreak. It is also worthy of note 
that whereas the Burdwan division before this epidemic was looked upon by the 
native inhabitants as a sanitarium, it has ever since retained a name for feverishness, 
and I have recently found the parasites of kala-azar in several typical cases of the 
sporadic form of the disease from the Burdwan district, so that the epidemic has left 
behind it the sporadic affection ; just as kala-azar has done in the parts of Assam it 
has devastated. 

KALA-DUKH. ^Another smaller outbreak of a similar nature, described 
under the name of kala-dukh by E. Brown, I.M.S., in 1898, occurred in the north-east 
corner of the Purneah district, immediately adjoining Dinajpur, and hence doubtless 



46 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

an offshoot of the great Rungpore-Dinajpur fever outbreak which gave rise to kala- 
azar in Assam. Kala-dukh depopulated a number of villages in the Nepaul terai ; 
but when I visited the place in 1904 it had nearly completely died out, only a few 
chronic cases remaining, while in the neighbouring part of the Dinajpur district 
there were fairly numerous sporadic cases of the disease, in some of which I found 
the parasites of kala-azar, thus establishing the identity of this small outbreak 
with the more extensive ones already described. 

I have now completed my survey of the subject from the epidemiological point 
of view, having treated it in considerable detail because I think the vast economic 
importance of these terrible spreading fevers is not yet fully realized out of India, 
and that the necessity of clearly distinguishing between the epidemic and the sporadic 
forms of the disease cannot be too strongly insisted on. The two disastrous outbreaks 
I have described both occurred within the last half century, their spread being con- 
ceivably assisted by improved communications in the affected tracts ; and, as it is 
impossible to say when a fresh epidemic may be started, we must be on our guard 
against them, for in no disease is it so true that knowledge is power. 

KALA-AZAR AS A DISEASE 

Having described kala-azar as an epidemic, tracing its origin, growth and decline, 
and having referred to a similar previous outbreak in Bengal known as Burdwan 
fever ; I now pass on to describe the disease itself — its course, complications, 
and terminations — and shall show that it is not one whit less terrible whether con- 
sidered individually or collectively, for it literally kills by inches after most prolonged 
sufferings, which we are still powerless to check to any great extent. As the later 
stages of the disease are much better kno^\^l than the earlier, it will tend to clear- 
ness if I first describe the typical advanced condition, returning later to the, still 
rarely, recognized commencement of the fever. 

THE GENERAL APPEARANCE IN THE CHARACTERISTIC ADVANCED 
STAGES OF KALA-AZAR. — The typical condition in well marked cases of 
kala-azar is well illustrated by the photo of a group of patients opposite page 46, 
(Plate 5) showing cases of the Assam epidemic disease in the Nowgong dispensary 
on a date in 1896 when the outbreak was at its height ; while Plates 3 and 4 
depict a series of the sporadic disease in Sylhet. The latter are of the more 
chronic type, and (plate 4) brings out the characteristic features most strikingly. 
The first point to note is the very marked degree of emaciation, as shown 
by the thin faces and arms and the prominent ribs. Secondly, in marked 
contrast with the general wasting, is the prominent tumid abdomen produced 
by the characteristically great enlargement of the spleen, and to a less extent 
of the liver. The feet may show dropsical swelling in advanced cases, but oedema 
of the face is very rare, and only seen in the extreme last stages of the affection. 
It is the great muscular wasting combined with excessive enlargement of the 
abdominal viscera which constitutes the striking picture presented by these patients. 
The superficial abdominal veins often become distended. 

On examining more closely it will be noticed that the skin presents a pecu- 



I 



I 



CLINICAL SYMPTOMS OF KALA-AZAR 47 

liar dusky or earthy colour, from which t^e name of the disease (black fever) is 
derived, but this is difficult to fully appreciate at a single inspection in these 
dark-skinned races. It is only when a patient is seen again after several weeks' 
interval that this darkening of the skin is strikingly apparent, it is sometimes 
so distinct that at a first glance the patient may not be recognized as the same 
person. On igxamining the conjunctiva there is commonly little if any apparent 
anaemia, although it may sometimes become very noticeable in the late stages. 
Taken altogether the appearance in typical cases is so characteristic that an experi- 
enced observer rarely fails to pick out a patient suffering from kala-azar at a glance 
in a hospital ward, although he may find it easier to do so than to describe in words 
his reasons for so doing. Plate 3 shows two very chronic cases which gave his- 
tories of six and ten years' fever respectively, and they show extreme enlargement 
of the liver and spleen. 

The group shown in the plate opposite is a still more representative one, and 
includes all the cases in the Nowgong dispensary at one time, and as I followed many 
of them up for a number of months they wiU serve to illustrate some of the principal 
features of the disease. Beginning from the left the first man shows marked wasting 
and great enlargement of the spleen, which reached below the navel and presented 
a prominent swelling, which I punctured under the impression that it might be 
an abscess, but obtained only blood containing some malarial parasites. He 
had suffered from fever off and on for eight months, and it continued in an alter- 
nating intermittent and remittent type for another month, when he died. In addition 
to the presence of the malarial parasites, his blood showed a marked leucopaenia 
only 1,000 white corpuscles per cubic milfimetre being present, or a proportion of 1 
white to 2,240 red ; a marked relative reduction which I have found to be so char- 
acteristic of kala-azar as to be of the greatest possible diagnostic value. Post 
mortem his spleen weighed 3 lb. 6 oz., the hver 3 lb. llj oz., and both organs 
contained malarial pigment. 

The second man from the left, again shows the typical wasting and enlargement 
of the spleen to below the navel, his skin was darker than it had been, and he had 
suffered from fever for four months. He was attacked with pneumonia, usually 
a most fatal complication, but surviving this he lost his fever permanently and during 
the next three months that he was under observation his liver and spleen became 
much reduced, he put on flesh rapidly, and left hospital quite fat and well ; a happy 
termination which more often follows some leucocyte increasing inflammatory com- 
phcation than anything else in my experience, a remarkable fact which I shall 
illustrate further presently. 

The third man was an Assamese, who had lost his father, mother, and an uncle 
of kala-azar and had no near relatives left. He had suffered from the fever for 
five months on admission, and was in much the same condition as the last two, 
and continued to show high fever in hospital until he was put on much larger doses 
of quinine, namely up to 45 grains in the day, when his fever became of the low 
intermittent type, he improved considerably in general health, but left hospital 
before he was completely cured. 



48 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

The girl No. 4 from the left was also an Assamese who had lost eleven 
near relatives of kala-azar, including no less than six brothers, and had only five 
relatives still living, one of whom was already aflfected. She had suffered from fever 
for eight months, and continued to get it on and off up to her death from compH- 
cating diarrhoea and dysentery two months later. Her body weighed only 70 
lb., but the spleen was 3 lb. and the liver 4 lb. 2 oz., having extended Sins, below 
the ribs during life. The family history of this patient is of special interest. 

The small girl in the middle of the group was aged 5 years. She had lost her 
father, mother and brother of kala-azar, so came to hospital as she had no relatives 
left to take care of her. She had suffered from fever for six months and was in 
an almost hopeless condition, dying with persistent fever a few weeks later. 

The girl immediately to the right of the child presents features of special 
interest, having been under my observation in hospital for eight months, and heard 
of some time later. She was aged 17, had lost her father, mother, a sister and 
two young brothers, aU Uving in the same house, of kala-azar, and had only one 
sister remaining aHve. She had been ill for one year with fever of an irregular 
type, which has continued with intermissions all that time, her menses having 
stopped since the fever began. She was greatly emaciated, her spleen was extremely 
enlarged, reaching to the middle Hne and down to the anterior superior spine of 
the ilium, and her liver to 2 ins. below the ribs. Haemoglobin 28 per cent., and 
red corpuscles 2,180,000 and white corpuscles 2,330. During the next two months 
she continued to get fever of alternating remittent and intermittent type, 
repeated blood examinations showed that whenever it assumed the remittent 
form the blood rapidly deteriorated, but when it was of the low intermittent type 
slow but steady improvement in the blood state occurred. She was now put on 
bone marrow tabloids, in addition to quinine, and during the next few weeks she 
improved greatly, and losing her fever altogether shortly after, she began to put on 
flesh rapidly, gaining as much as 12| lb. in a single month. Her liver disappeared 
under the edge of the ribs, the spleen became very greatly reduced in size, and 
she left hospital quite fat and weU to be married shortly after, and was still in 
perfect health five months after, when I left the district. This is the worst case 
that I had seen recover up to that time, her case seemed to be a most desperate 
one, but experience has shown that no case is too late to mend, as I shall further 
illustrate below. 

The next girl presented a remarkably similar appearance to the last, being 
also an Assamese aged 15, who had lost her father, mother and two brothers of 
kala-azar, and had only three near relatives remaining aUve. She, too, lost her 
fever for several months, regained her weight and became quite fat, but just as 
she appeared to have permanently recovered she caught a chill and died in a few 
days of pneumonia, but for this unfortunate compfication I have no doubt she 
would have been cured. 

The last three on the right of this group comprise a father, mother and their 
one year old child, all suffering from kala-azar, who had lost several relatives of 
the disease, and had none Hving who were free from it. They aU showed great 



KALA-AZAR— FAMILY DISTRIBUTION 49 

enlargement of the spleen, that of the infant reaching to the navel. The father 
and mother both died of pneumonia in the cold season, and the child, after losing 
her fever and improving considerably, was carried off by cholera. The above 
cases furnish a very fair picture of the family history, typical conditions and the 
varying course of the disease. 

The essential similarity between the cases of the epidemic disease just described 
with the sporadic form illustrated in the Sylhet group is most striking, the only 
difference being that the latter were of a more chronic nature, and consequently 
there had been a larger time for extreme enlargement of the spleen and liver to 
take place. This identity of the two forms of kala-azar is of the greatest interest 
and importance, for at the time of my Assam inquiry, these sporadic cases were 
universally looked on as manifestations of " malarial cachexia," and epidemic 
kala-azar was unknown in Sylhet. Yet I could find no difference between them 
and the epidemic kala-azar in the Brahmaputra valley to the north of the Khasia 
Hills except in their greater chronicity and apparently lesser infectivity. As 
I had no reasons for questioning the opinion of centuries as to these endemic cases 
being malarial in nature, I could not but conclude that the Brahmaputra valley 
disease was but an epidemic manifestation of malaria, as I had frequently found 
malarial parasites in their blood and malarial pigment in the organs post mortem, 
together with a similar type of anaemia : a position which was endorsed by Major 
Ronald Ross several years later. 

FAMILY DISTRIBUTION. — Several of the cases ah-eady referred to illustrate 
very well the extraordinary tendency of this disease to attack a number of persons 
in the same family or household, but the frequency with which this is the case 
will be better reaUzed from the following figures relating to twenty successive 
Assamese patients seen in the Nowgong Hospital. Among their near relatives 
no less than 123 persons had been attacked by kala-azar, only 2 of whom re- 
covered while but 44 of their near relatives had escaped the infection ; or to put 
it another way, no less than four-fifths of these patients had lost half or more than 
half of their relatives within three to five years, so that it is easy to understand 
how whole families have been destroyed, and so much land has fallen out of 
cultivation. 

A similar family incidence is seen in the sporadic disease, and is best illustrated 
by a European series of cases, in whom it is easier to follow up the histories. An 
examination of my notes of the Calcutta European Hospital cases of the last six 
years, shows that the most common relationships between patients actually in 
hospital for the disease were, parent and child in six instances, brothers and 
sisters in seven more, nearly always children, while in no less than three of these 
instances more than two children of the same household were admitted, the series 
in one family extending over a period of five years. Moreover, just one-third of 
the whole series of cases had relations actually in hospital during this period, while 
a good many more gave histories of other members of their famiUes being attacked 
with fevers of long duration, which were pretty certainly of the same nature. 

4 



50 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

This family incidence clearly points to a house infection, and was the main basis 
of the successful measures I advocated against the disease. 

The histories of the rare cases in which Europeans in Assam were attacked 
by kala-azar throw some further light on this question, for in aU the six cases, regard- 
ing whom Dr. Dodds Price kindly furnished me with information, the affected 
men were in the habit of cohabiting with native women either in the infected lines, 
or in three instances, each with a single woman, who was subsequently found to be 
infected with kala-azar, two of them eventually dying of the disease. Two of these 
last cases of infection were most important, as they occurred in parts then uninfected 
with kala-azar, but in each case the woman had come from an infected district. 
Moreover, Dr. Price knows of no instance in which a European cohabited with 
an infected native woman who escaped kala-azar ; and when we bear in mind 
that it is the usual custom for such women only to come to the bungalow at night 
and not to eat with the European, it becomes clear that the most likely mode 
of infection by a parasite occurring in the peripheral circulation is through some 
biting insect, in which the parasite may pass its extracorporeal stage of existence. 
Moreover, such a source of infection may furnish a clue to that of adult Europeans, 
with no family history to explain it, in large towns such as Calcutta, as well as among 
soldiers in Bengal cantonments, and this is also in accordance with the decreasing 
age incidence after early adult Ufe. Again, the infection of one child after another 
in the same house may be also readily explained on the same hj^othesis, and indi- 
cates the importance of isolating, at least in a separate room, any person attacked 
by the disease, or better, in a hospital where persistent treatment and nursing 
can be carried out. 

AGE AND SEX INCIDENCE. — Among tea-garden coohes, who furnish the 
most accurate statistics, there was no difference in the incidence of the disease 
on the two sexes, nor did occupation affect it. Numberless instances of husband 
and wife being infected one after the other were met with, it being, in fact, the 
exception for one of them to escape — another striking instance of house infection. 
In the sporadic disease in Calcutta an excess of native males are admitted, much 
in proportion to those of other diseases. In the European hospital there were 
twice as many males as females above the age of 15, possibly partly due to the 
source of infection just mentioned ; but in children under 15 there were 23 females 
to 13 males, probably due to a larger proportion of the male children living away 
from home at schools. 

The age incidence is of great importance, the most striking fact being the 
number of children attacked. In my Assam report I recorded that 25-6 per cent, 
of my cases occurred in children under 10, while 24*4 per cent, more, were between 
10 and 20 years old, making 50 per cent, under the latter age. Further, in a more 
recent report on the sporadic disease in Sylhet, 39 per cent, were under 10, and 
30 per cent, more between 10 and 20, making nearly 70 per cent, under 20. Among 
natives in Calcutta only 8 per cent, were in children under 10, but 40 per cent, 
between 10 and 20, three-fifths of which were boys from 10 to 15, who are much 



KALA-AZAR— RACE, AKD SEASONS 51 

more readily brought to hospital than girls or younger children. Between the 
ages of 20 and 30 were 32 per cent., 16 per cent, from 30 to 40, and only 4 per cent, 
over 40 years of age. Among Europeans, who readily bring their children to 
hospital, 20 per cent, were under 10, and 22 per cent, more between 10 and 15, 
making no less than 42 per cent. 15 or under ; 22 per cent, from 20 to 30, and 20 
per cent, over 30, showing once more a very high rate among the unfortunate 
children, and a decreasing one with advancing years. 

RACE INCIDENCE. — It has already been mentioned that epidemic kala- 
azar was rare in Europeans in Assam compared with natives, but is not so very 
uncommon in Europeans in Calcutta in the sporadic form. The class of Europeans 
attacked is here of great importance, for out of 87 cases, regarding whom I have 
a note as to how long they had been in India, I find that no less than 87 34 per 
cent, were born and bred in that country, and only 12* 66 were immigrants from 
Europe. Moreover, the shortest time after arriving in India that any immigrant 
was attacked was eight years ; a second had been thirteen years, and a third nine- 
teen years in the country ; while the remaining eight had all been over twenty 
years in India, and belonged to the same class as those bom in Calcutta, and, like 
them, were Uving in parts of the city where their houses were surroiinded by those 
of native inhabitants and under conditions of overcrowding and bad sanitation. 
In fact, almost all these unfortunate people belonged to the poorest sections of 
the mixed European and native population, among whom the sanitation and cleanli- 
ness of the well-to-do official and commercial European immigrant class is an 
impossibihty — a fact of great importance in connexion with the etiology of the 
disease. In marked contrast with this is an observation I have recently made 
to the effect that 80 per cent, of the European immigrants admitted to hospital 
for typhoid in Calcutta had been three years or less in India, for the totally different 
incidence of sporadic kala-azar just mentioned in this class will prove a useful 
point in the differentiation of the later disease in its early remittent stage from 
typhoid, with which it has been so much confused. 

SEASONAL INCIDENCE. — Owing to the disease lasting from a few months 
to several years, cases are admitted to hospital at all seasons, and neither in Calcutta 
nor Madras is there any very marked seasonal incidence, although there is some 
excess of admissions of Europeans in Calcutta at the end of the cold and beginning 
of the hot season, especially among those coming in the early stages of the fever. 

Of much greater importance is the question whether the fever begins at any 
special season, as is suggested by the fact that the extra-corporeal stage of the 
parasite, to be described later, only developed in my cultures below a temperature 
of 75° F. It is very difficult to obtain accurate histories ot the beginning of the 
disease in many cases, especially when they are seen for the first time at a much 
later date, but an analysis of my notes of those who stated they had had fever 
for not more than six months, in two series of cases (in the Native Medical College 
and European hospitals respectively), showed both a marked preponderance com- 



52 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

mencing during the cold weather, or early in the hot weather, on account of the^ 
frequently long, incubation period. These results can be summed up by saying that 
in the six months from November to April there were three times as many cases 
in the European series and almost four times as many in the native one as in the 
remaining six months of the year — a sufficiently striking fact when the difficulties 
of getting accurate data are considered. Wlien in Assam I tried to work out this 
point from the admissions to hospital for fever on tea estates, and found that most 
of the patients suffering from typical kala-azar in the cold season had been admitted 
for short attacks of apparently malarial fever in the previous rainy season from June 
to October, for but few escape malaria at that time. On finding that the sporadic 
cases in Calcutta mostly began in the cold season in Calcutta, I wrote to Dr. Dodds 
Price for his matured experience on the subject, and he very kindly sent me histories 
of all his European cases, every one of which had commenced in the cold weather ; 
while an inquiry into his, then comparatively few native patients, also showed 
that almost all of them had developed kala-azar during the cold weather, and 
he added, " AH this is very instructive, and fits in exactly with your Calcutta 
experience." 

Taking everything into consideration, I think there is sufficient evidence to 
prove that the great majority of patients become infected in the cold season, and 
I am inclined to think that infection will ultimately be found to be limited to tliis 
time of the year. The importance of this fact in connexion with prophylactic 
measures is clear, as it will greatly simplify matters if precautions against infection 
have only to be taken during a few months of the year. 

THE DISTRIBUTION OF SPORADIC KALA-AZAR IN INDIA.— Since it became 
known that so many cases previously classed as " malarial cachexia " are but 
the sporadic form of kala-azar, observations on its distribution have been accumu- 
lating. Donovan and others have found it to be very common in Madras, while 
my own observations have shown it to be widely distributed all over Lower Bengal 
and Assam, except the eastern part of the Brahmaputra Valley. It also occurs 
somewhat less frequently in Western Bengal or Bihar, and extends into the neigh- 
bouring eastern end of the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh, cases in soldiers 
having been verified by the officers of the Royal Army Medical Corps at Benares, 
while I have also seen two who appear to have contracted the disease in Allahabad, 
and others have been met with among Gurkhas as far west as Dehra Dun, On 
the other hand, during an examination of the records of all the fever cases admitted 
to the Lahore Medical College Hospital for three years I failed to find any cases 
resembling sporadic kala-azar, while it is also specially noteworthy that I met 
with no double remittent, low continued, or other doubtful long fevers, among 
them. The Bombay records also show a similar absence of the disease, except 
rare importations from Madras, so that the disease appears to be limited to the 
eastern side of India, although I am informed that Burmah, like Bombay, only 
has cases contracted at Madras. 

In connexion with this distribution it is of interest to note that the areas affected 



KALA-AZAR— TYPES OF FEVER 53 

all have a very mild cold season, during which the mean temperatm-e for thtee 
or four months remains between 60° to 75° F., for I shall show later these are 
the limits between which I have been able to cultivate the parasite outside the 
human body. On the other hand, in the unaffected north-west parts of India 
the mean temperature during the cold months falls lower, while owing to the 
brevity of spring and autumn in India the temperature conditions most favour- 
able to the organism outside the human body last a very short time in those 
areas. 

EFFECTS OF SEASONAL VARIATIONS ON THE PREVALENCE AND ORIGIN 
OF THE DISEASE. — I have already shown that the infection of kala-azar is pro- 
bably limited to the cold season, so that an exceptionally long " cold weather " might 
be expected to temporarily increase the occurrence of the disease. This is actually 
the case, for two years ago such a cold season occurred, and during it and the follow- 
ing earher hot weather months an unusually large number of sporadic kala-azar cases 
were admitted to both the native and European hospitals of Calcutta — many 
more than in the following year, with a normal cold season. Now this long " cold 
weather " followed an early cessation of the previous monsoon rains, for the with- 
drawal of the south-west monsoon is succeeded by a cold north breeze ; and it 
has been mentioned on page 33 that the Assam epidemic arose as a consequence 
of four out of five successive years of deficient rainfall in the early seventies, 
due to an early cessation of the monsoon current. I have not been able to get 
complete meteorological data for Rungpore in the seventies, but those of Calcutta 
of that period show without doubt that during several of the years of deficient 
rain the mean temperatures of the ensuing cold season were below the average. 

Now, if a single cold year had such a marked influence in increasing the sporadic 
kala-azar in Calcutta, on account of the longer period which was favourable to the 
infection, it becomes easy to understand how an unusual succession of such seasons 
may have increased the number of cases, and in the same way the foci of infection, 
year by year, until the fever became so widespread that the people began to leave 
their villages, and thus carried the infection into areas at the foot of the Garo Hills 
and in the Goalpara subdivision, which had hitherto been almost, or quite, free 
from it, and so started the spreading disease in Assam in a people who were 
extremely susceptible to it, owing to not having previously suffered from the sporadic 
form. Such an origin of the Assam epidemic kala-azar is most in accordance 
with the known facts, and also with the life-history of the parasite and mode of 
infection, to be dealt with later. 

THE TYPES OF FEVER IN KALA-AZAR 

I now come to the difficult subject of the types of fever in kala-azar and their 
diagnostic value, which is very considerable when rightly understood, although 
they have not been hitherto fully worked out, especially as regards the early stages 
of the disease. As I have in my possession four hourly temperature charts of all 
the cases admitted to the European Calcutta hospital for some four years, and 



54 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

a still larger number from the native hospital, I have been able to study carefuUy 
the temperature curves at different periods of the disease. Further, for two complete 
years I possess the notes and charts of every fever case admitted to the open wards 
of the former hospital, including a number of early cases of kala-azar, which were 
subsequently followed up into the characteristic later stages, so that I am now 
enabled to point out the most important features of the temperature curves at 
the commencement and their differentiation from the charts of those fevers, which 
are most commonly confused with them. The following cases have been selected 
to illustrate the different stages of the disease and to demonstrate the features of 
the greatest diagnostic importance. 

I. CHILD ADMITTED IN ADVANCED STAGE WHOSE FEVER LASTED 
OVER SIX MONTHS IN HOSPITAL BEFORE DEATH. — Chart 1 illustrates the 
extraordinary power of resistance of children to this fever, as well as the terrible 
manner in which it drags out its slow course, only to be terminated by some complicat- 
ing bacterial infection. The patient was a Calcutta bom Emopean girl of 6 years, who 
had already suffered from fever for six months before admission, she was very thin 
and anaemic and did not look as if she would long survive. The temperature 
chart shows the great irregularity so characteristic of this disease, and also a 
tendency to waves of remittent fever alternating with that of an intermittent 
type, while in the month of September it showed for a time a distinctly continued 
type, which, taken by itself, bears a considerable degree of resemblance to that 
of typhoid, although in such a case as this the previous course of the affection 
is alone sufficient to exclude that disease. On looking more closely at the chart, 
which is a four hourly one throughout, it will be observed that there is a marked 
tendency for the temperature to show considerable variations twice, or more rarely 
even three times, in the twenty-four hours ; a feature I have already described 
under the term " double remittent type " as being frequently of great diagnostic 
value, and a chart of which I published as early as May, 1903, as probably that 
of a new fever. This feature is weU seen during the month of July, while it is 
specially noteworthy that it is also quite distinct during the continued typhoid-like 
curve in October, as I have not been able to find any case of true typhoid among 
my large collection of four hourly charts in which such a double rise repeatedly 
occurred. Another common feature illustrated by her case was the occurrence 
of cancrum oris, the most frequent and fatal complication in children during this 
disease, which but few chronic cases escape. In this case it was of an unusual 
distribution as it affected the junction of the nose with the upper lip, producing 
a complete perforation, and after showing signs of healing it broke out again, des- 
troying the rest of the lip, only again to cease spreading and once more to begin to 
heal. Another noteworthy and important practical point was that after the 
sloughing process ceased the patient, who had been lying in an apparently dying 
condition for many days, greatly improved in her general condition, and within 
a very few days was walking about the ward, although still suffering from fever, 
this gradually subsided to the low intermittent form seen in November, but 



KALA-AZAR— TYPES OF FEVER 55 

further recurrences of ulceration and fever ensued during the following month, 
and eventually in January she was released from her sufferings by an attack of 
pneumonia : a common and very fatal terminal affection. This case illustrates 
a number of the most frequent features of the latter stages of the sporadic affection. 

2. CASE OF SEVEN MONTHS DURATION FOLLOWED FROM BEGINNING 
TO END. — The next chart (2) shows the case of another European girl aged 7 years 
(whose father subsequently also died of the same disease) who was admitted 
on the sixth day of her fever according to the history obtained from her parents, 
with whom she was living at the time. The fever at first ran an irregular high 
remittent course, the spleen extended to only 1| ins. below the ribs, and she was 
not wasted, so the case was very naturally looked on as one of typhoid fever. On 
seeing her chart some ten days after her admission, without knowing anything 
of the history, I noticed the double remittent type and at once suspected the case 
to be one of sporadic kala-azar, although the symptoms were certainly very like 
those of typhoid ; I therefore watched the case very closely. The temperature 
began to decline about the end of the third week, and the original diagnosis of 
typhoid seemed about to be confirmed. Instead, however, of remaining normal, 
or showing the subnormal curve of early convalescence from typhoid, the tempera- 
ture continued to rise a degree or two every evening as is so frequent at times in 
the course of kala-azar. This daily low fever rising to about 100 in the afternoon, 
and faUing again to normal in the night lasted just one month, to terminate in 
another high wave, during which the double daily remission was again apparent 
for a few days, and was again succeeded by a less regular intermittent fever 
with occasional double daily variations. Early in September she was sent to 
Darjeeling, at a height of 8,000 feet above sea level, but the irregular intermittent 
fever continued, and in the middle of October she returned to the Calcutta hospital 
with her general condition worse than before she went to the hills : this change having 
been (as we usually find) quite ineffective in checking this fever. In December she be- 
came much worse, the temperature now assuming the continued type, wliich is more 
common in these later stages than in the earlier ones. In January she was attacked 
with dysentery, which quickly proved fatal : this being another common terminal 
complication, although more frequently seen in native than in European patients. 

This chart illustrates the disease from beginning to end, and is of great interest 
in showing the similarity of the disease to typhoid in the early stages, and as illus- 
trating the two most important differences from the temperature curve of that 
disease, namely, the double remittent type appearing very early in the disease, 
its course, as well as the low intermittent fever following the decline of the high 
initial remittent pyrexia. 

3. DOUBLE REMITTENT TYPE OF EARLY KALA-AZAR FEVER MIS- 
TAKEN FOR TYPHOID.— Chart 3 is that of a man admitted early in May with a 
typically double remittent type of fever passing into a high remittent pyrexia. He 
gave a history of having been treated for typhoid fever in March, and on obtaining 



56 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



his temperature chart of that attack it also showed the double remittent form 
for several days, as seen in the early part of the illustration. I had no doubt he 



Chart 3 (Case 347). 




Early Kala-azar showing double remittent fever passing into a high remittent type, which gradually 
fell to a low remittent form. On admission a blood count showed 4,010,000 red corpuscles, 1,750 
white; ratio of white to red, 1 to 2,291. Total poljmuclears, 875; differential count, poly- 
nuclears, 50-4 ; lymphocytes, 35-6 ; large mononuclears, 12-4, eosinophiles, 1-6 per cent. Note 
the characteristic relative reduction of the white corpuscles. 

was suffering from an early stage of sporadic kala-azar, which, unfortunately, subse- 
quently proved to be the case. It is quite a common event for patients in a typical 
stage of kala-azar to give a history of having suffered from typhoid some months 

Chart 3a. 




From the same case as Chart 3 during an attack of fever two months before admission, which was 
mistaken for typhoid, but shows the double remittent type of pyrexia. 

previously, but when a record of the attack is available it will almost always be found 
that the temperature did not show the high continued type of typhoid (see p. 118). 

4. DOUBLE CONTINUED FEVER IN EARLY KALA-AZAR— DIAGNOSED 
AS TYPHOID. — A still more difficult case is that shown in Chart 4, for here is 

Chart 4. 




Early stage of Kala-azar admitted with high continued fever, which was diagnosed as typhoid, but showed 
double daily rises repeatedly. He returned later in a typical condition of kala-azar, the case was 
followed up to his death after two and a half years. 



KALA-AZAR— TYPES OF FEVER 57 

seen a high continued p3rrexia (that is, a temperature remaining persistently above 
101, and with a diurnal variation not exceeding two degrees F., for two or more 
days); this I have found to be very characteristic of typhoid fever {see p. 118). 
Moreover, the fever terminated by lysis at about the end of the third week, and 
was very naturally returned as typhoid. The patient was a European boy, aged 
13, the brother of two other patients admitted at different times for somewhat 
similar attacks each diagnosed as tjrphoid, although I was unable to get any serum 
reactions in them during their fever. All three subsequently developed great 
enlargement of the spleen and other typical symptoms of sporadic kala-azar. One, 
a girl of 8, eventually completely recovered and remained well up to four years 
later when last seen : the second, a young lad, died of the disease after eighteen 
months : and the boy whose chart is given was repeatedly in hospital during the 
next two and a half years with an enormously enlarged spleen and intractable 
fever, and died at the end of that long period of suffering. 

On carefully examining the chart of his first typhoid-like attack, it will be seen 
that there is marked tendency to the occurrence of two rises in the course of the 
twenty-four hours. This I have never seen in undoubted typhoid or other fever, and 
I am compelled to regard it as practically pathognomonic of kala-azar. The great 
diagnostic value of these double rises is that they so very frequently occur in the early 
stages of the disease, when there are no other characteristic features present, although 
they may appear at any time in its course. In one case which I treated for three 
months with large doses of quinine, during which the patient had only low inter- 
mittent fever and was steadily improving, as soon as the quinine had been reduced 
to only five grains a day by another medical man, the temperature began to 
rise much higher and a typical double remittent curve appeared. 

Another feature of this early stage of kala-azar is the slightness of the general 
symptoms in comparison with the high degree of fever, the entire absence of marked 
mental dullness and delirium, and usually of any urgent and distressing symptoms, 
or of abdominal distension or tenderness, thus presenting a great contrast to the 
common condition in typhoid fever ; this point has also been noted by T. H. 
Symons and A. T. Long in Madras (Madras General Hospital Reports). In fact, 
numerous cases of early kala-azar are very frequently regarded as typhoid fever, 
and I think that there can be little doubt that the late Dr. A. Oombie, I.M.S., 
was referring to these cases when he described a non-malarial remittent fever 
distinct from typhoid, although I am unable to find from his writings that he sus- 
pected it to be anything but the early stage of " malarial cachexia," as sporadic 
kala-azar was always considered to be at the time he wrote. 

5. EARLY KALA-AZAR WITH LOW CONTINUED FEVER ; SUSPECTED 
TO BE TYPHOID. — Chart 5 shows yet another t3rpe of fever, which is commonly seen 
in the course of kala-azar, and which is also of considerable diagnostic importance 
on account of its much greater rarity in tjrphoid and other fevers. This is what 
I call the " low continued type," in which the temperature falls below 101, but 
with a diurnal variation not exceeding 2° F., without, however, falling to normal. 



58 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



It is well seen in the first part of Chart 5 which was that of an European aged 52, 
who had hved for fifty years in India. On admission to hospital his spleen was only 



Chabt 5. 



OS- 

1 »•• 

lOI* 

*iDtr 

»• 
»»• 


n 


TZ 


-r'~ 




- 


-ff 


: 


— 




— 


r^ 


-^ 


7- 


q 


-" 


^ 






jp 


ri 


-Lit- 


^ 


t_ 


T 


n 


-t- 


—Jf 


-'- 


f~ 


-* 


_ 


iC. 


-T- 

-Kr 
-S9-f 


r: 




u^L. 


i. 


- 




- 


J" 


P 




7 


: 1 ■ 


"- 


; 


--■ 
- 




^ 


- 








* 






-■: 




--4- 


- 


i 


1^ 










-; 






— 


4 








J- 


- 






'] 




■'- 


- 








f 


A 


S 

-j^ 


'1 


"1^ 


1 


-r-: ;■ 


^ 


> 






.- 


1 




\ 








^ 


^ 


7 


^ 


V 


V 


f 


/ 


lA 


;j 


1 


Llii 


- 


i 




f 


'^ 


)ii-: 


yr* 






/ 




__ 


A 


/ 


ILl 


■if 


Sfv 




Iw 






"4/ 


^lil/1 


-i,/ 


l: 






_ 


„;_ 


UJ 




__ 






_;_ 








¥- 


Ail' 


^r 


t 


~^ 






' 






-K.^ 










■^ 




--; i ■ ■ 








' 


, 






T 


"T' 












— 








^ 


^ 






^ 


-± 


^ 


_J 


_i. 


i- 


-^'-■ 


T 


■ 


i^ 


^ 




^ 


t 


2; 




^ 


«Mi 






£■:- 






.bJ:. 




i. 



Early Kala-azar, showing low continued pj^rexia, thought at first to be typhoid. 

just felt, and he was not anaemic. His blood was repeatedly tested by a Widal 
reaction, with negative results, while the large mononuclear leucocytes numbered 
12" 4 per cent., which is a higher percentage than is found in early tjrphoid fever. 
As there was still some doubt about the case I took some blood from a vein with 
a sterile syringe and made cultures in a quantity of broth, but no typhoid baciUi 
were grown, so I strongly suspected the presence of an early stage of sporadic kala- 
azar. His temperature feU to normal on the 31st day, and he soon after went for 
a river trip, but four months later he returned to hospital giving a history of having 
suffered from fever on and off since his previous discharge, and showed a marked 
enlargement of the spleen and the typical blood changes of kala-azar, which ran 
a somewhat rapid course, as is frequent in comparatively old patients, he died 
from terminal dysentery four months later. In this case it was the low continued 
type of fever which made me suspect the disease in its early stage. 

6. RECOVERY FROM AN ADVANCED STAGE AFTER COMPLICATION 
WITH CANCRUM ORIS. — The next case is a very remarkable one illustrating the 
occasional recovery from an apparently absolutely hopeless condition, and furnishing 
one gleam of hope for the future in the otherwise dark outlook in the treatment 
of this terrible disease (see Chart 6). The patient was an Indian born European girl 
of 8 years, whose sister had recently died in hospital of the same disease. She 
was admitted with a history of one month's fever, but her spleen already reached 
to the level of the navel and her liver 2 ins. below the ribs. She was markedly 
anaemic, her red corpuscles numbering 2,875,000 and the white only 1,375, or a 
proportion of 1 white to 2,091 red : this marked relative leucopaenia I have shown 
to he 'practically diagnostic of the disease and to he of had prognostic significance. 
As wiU be seen from the chart the fever ran a long course with the usual alterna- 
tions of the remittent and intermittent types, the latter preponderating. During 
the temporary cessation of the fever late in December and early in January she 
improved considerably, and the white corpuscles increased to 4,500, only to fall 
again during the high continued fever early in April to less than half that number. 



KALA-AZAR— QUININE TREATMENT 59 

At this period she developed cancrum oris affecting the nasal passages and was 
moved into the separation ward in such a condition that her death was daily expected, 
a large abscess having also now developed over one hip. To the surprise of every 
one, a few days later the temperature began to fall once more, and she sat up in 
bed and began to play with her toys, as though she had risen from the dead. On 
April 25, just two weeks after the temperature began to decHne, I found her leuco- 
cytes to number 8,625, just four times the number found three weeks before, while 
the differential counts showed that the total number of polynuclears had risen 
from 132 to 2,242 during the same period, a most remarkable change brought 
about by the septic complications she had been suffering from. She continued to 
get shght intermittent fever for several weeks longer, then a low rise to about 
100° F. for another month, after which it remained normal, she gained weight 
rapidly, became quite fat, and returned to school in July, where I saw her in 
the following December the picture of health six months after her fever left her, 
so that she may safely be regarded as having completely recovered. 

This recovery, after some septic compHcation, is by no means very exceptional, 
several other similar cases having come under my observation. Moreover, in 
at least three instances, in which numerous parasites had been found by spleen 
puncture within a few weeks of the death of the patient from cancrum oris, or some 
other septic infection of either staphylococcus or streptococcus origin, the parasites 
have been found post mortem to have either decreased to such an extent as to be 
only found in the bone marrow after some search, or to be altogether absent. Thus 
there seems to be some ground for thinking that the septic intoxication is highly 
inimical to the life of the protozoal parasite of kala-azar, just as the presence of 
bacteria is fatal to the development of the parasite in culture, and thus to indicate 
a possible line of treatment for this highly resistant form of fever. The case further 
shows that no case is too desperate to recover, so that efforts should not be spared 
to find out the secret of nature's occasional apparently miraculous recovery in these 
cases, so as to enable it to be successfully imitated, as I believe and trust it may 
be before very long. 

7. EARLY CASE SUCCESSFULLY TREATED BY PERSEVERANCE WITH 
LARGE DOSES OF QUININE.— The last chart (No. 7) is of great interest. It is that 
of an European girl of 8, the sister of two advanced cases of the disease, who 
herself was brought to hospital two weeks after her fever was noticed. At this time 
her spleen already reached down to the level of the navel, indicating a long incuba- 
tion of the disease. She remained in hospital for 286 days ; by this time she had been 
quite free from fever for 4^ months and had fully regained her weight, while seven 
months later I heard from her mother that she was stiU in perfect health. Her 
chart shows the usual variations in the temperature curve, while towards the end 
of November she was much wasted and presented the tjrpical appearance of advanced 
kala-azar. Up to this time she had been taking from 36 to 40 grains of quinine 
steadily, and it will be seen that her temperature kept at a lower general level 
than in most of the other charts, especially those of children. On December 6, 



60 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



the quinine was increased to 50 grains daily in 10 grain doses, a very large quantity 
for a child of 8, there being commonly a remarkable tolerance to this drug in 
kala-azar. A few days later the temperature began to decline, and from that 
time she steadily improved, the same doses of quinine being continued for nearly 
two months and 30 to 40 grains a day for a further period of three months, by which 
time she had completely recovered, and become very well noiirished. Her weight 
is shown week by week in diagram IV together with the doses of quinine and the 
type of the fever, and illustrates very well the relationship between the waves 









lbs 


AU& 


IEPTSmBER 


OCTOBER 


NOVEMBEFt 


DECEMBER 


janOarv 


FE.6R0ARV 


tvl A R C K 


UPP.ILl 


lbs 


i,4^t 


Tl k!" r^: 


rlio^liqlxb 


1.1 qlifelaslao 


7hu.lai li« 


«.|ii !iel« 


1 8 1 15^13,^ 


1 Isiisixa 


^ 


:f a-.l 


45 

4* 

4» 
4^ 
4' 
40 

3^ 

38 

»T 
X6 
ZS 

H 
33 




































































f 


4^ 

4-4- 
4a 

4* 

41 
40 

59 

38 

^T 
36 
3S 
34 
33 
3i 


































































/ 








r- 
























































^ 


J 


r 






























































/ 


IF 
































































i 




































































/ 


































































/ 


































































> 




































































/ 














g 


\ 






































A 












i 


^ 














I 


\ 


































i^^ 










/ 


r 
















r 


\ 


































/ 


\ 




4 


/ 


















' 




\ 


































1 




V 


^ 


^ 




















i 






\ 
































1 


1 




























/ 






\ 


M 


^ 


^ 
























1 




































^ 




\ 
























1 










































\ 






















1 












































i 






















1 












































\ 










/ 


\ 










1 












































y 




4 


A 


J 




\ 








1 
















































L 


f 










i 








1 
















































V 












\ 








r 




























































\ 




i 






























































\ 




I 
































































\ 


i 


/ 


































































V 


































































^ 






































































































js'ni 


± 


'6 


-.0 


txJO 


♦« 


«o 


ttO 


UD 


ISO 


fcO 


*o 


*o 


*o 


uo 


no 


So 


So 


5S 


So 


S-o 


SO 


So 


3o 


♦0 


*o 


10 


20 


•0 


*o 


«0 


«« 


«» 


»o 


*o 


u 1 

^1 


q ui 1- 


REMITTENT 


>- 




il 


X z 

0;? 


i 


z 


NO 

FEVER 


l- 

If 


wow 

liyTeHMlTreMT 


NOR«Aau 



DiAGBAsi IV. — Weekly weight chart of kala-azar, Case 7. 

of high remittent fever and the wasting, and the improvement as soon as the 
temperature faUs again to a low intermittent type. It is the power Avhich large 
doses of quinine appear to possess of breaking the high remittent pyrexial waves 
(during which both a marked loss of weight as well as blood deterioration always occur) 
and bringing the curve down to a low intermittent form (during which equally 
steady general improvement commonly takes place) which make it so valuable 
a drug if pushed and persevered with. It is at least clear in the case of this child 
that the relatively enormous doses given did no harm, and the considerable reduction 



KALA-AZAR— VARYING TYPES OF FEVER 



61 



in the death rate obtained by those few who have followed my advice in using 
this treatment, as compared with that admitted by those who still refuse to believe 
that quinine has any value in kala-azar, more than justifies my consistent advocacy 
of this drug in the absence of any better method of controlling this terrible affection. 
The above cases will serve to give some idea of the extraordinary length 
and variability of the temperature curve, making the disease extremely difficult 
to describe systematically. The general symptoms in the earlier stages are so 
indefinite that it is only by careful watching and the gradual exclusion of typhoid, 
malaria, etc., and above aU by the blood changes, described on p. 67 that 
they can be recognized. 

THE FREQUENCY OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF FEVER IN VARIOUS STAGES 
OF KALA-AZAR. — The cases already described illustrate the variabiHty of the 
pyrexia in the course of this prolonged fever. The frequency of the types are 
shown in Table II, the cases being classed in accordance with the duration of the 
fever, and also sub-divided into those in which the spleen was not enlarged down 
to the level of the navel, and those in which it extended to, or beyond that point. 
The latter cases cannot well be mistaken for any disease except true chronic 
malaria, which is easily recognized by the parasites and the, effect of quinine in 
rapidly controlling the fever. The first class of cases are often much more difficult to 
differentiate from typhoid and other long fevers. The following are the most 
important points illustrated by the table. As the same case may show different 
types at different periods the most constant or striking feature has been used for 
classifying them. 

The high continued type include only ten cases, or 12 per cent, of the series. 
In only two of them, however, was the spleen not enlarged down to the navel, 
both being within the first month. One of them was recognized at once as early 
Kala-azar by the white corpuscles being under 1 to 3,000 red, but in the other the 
total leucocytes were not counted and I mistook the case at first for para-typhoid 
as a serum reaction up to 1 in 40 was obtained with the B bacillus, although typical 
Kala-azar subsequently developed and proved fatal (see CJhart 8), Again, the 

Chart 8. 




Early Kala-azar, showing the rare high continued pyrexia, and mistaken for para-typhoid on account 
of a positive serum reaction. The patient later became a typical kala-azar, and was followed 
up to his death. 

high remittent type was only observed in five cases, two of which had comparatively 
small spleens, but in one this was due to the effect of diarrhoea, and only one was 



62 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



in an early stage when tjrphoid might have been suspected. In this case, once 
more, the ratio of white corpuscles to the red was under 1 to 3,000, which enabled 
kala-azar to be diagnosed within the first month of the fever. If we take both 



TABLE II.- 


-THE TYPES OF FEVER IN VARIOUS STAGES OF KALA-AZAP 


I. 




High Double 


High 


Low 


Low 


High 


Low . 




Con- Re- 


Re- 


Re- 


Con- 


Inter- 


Inter- Total, i 




tinued. mittent. 


mittent. 


mittent. 


tinned. 


mittent. 


mittent. 








« 




o 




e 




« 


- 


P 


o 


e 




« 






2_: 


u 


o 




5^- 




^^ 


1. 


3. J. 


°^ 


> 
o 


S.I. 


2_: 


^ 




i% 


§> 


<s ^ 


a 5 


«?; 


SSi 


!> 


^% 


•s 


ss 


1> 


o > 


^> 


© > ° > 


-> 






(H a 


S e3 c j; 


o c3 


C 03 


o cs 


S « 


© ea 


S c3 


O S3 


§ * 


a (S 


S <s 


©03 C <S 


© d 




r 


OQ "a 




■ft 


02 


■ft 


-ft)?; 

QQ 


■ft 


■ft:? 

OQ 


ft 5° 


■ft 


■ftiz; S;z; 
<» 1 ft 


OQ 


1 




£' 


(« 




OQ 




SQ 




OQ 




OQ 




OQ 




OQ 


* 




1st month . 


2 


1 

1 9 


2 


1 





1 


1 


2 





3 


2 


1 


1 
1 19 


7 26 


1-3 months . 


— 


4 — 


2 








1 


2 


— 








— 


2 


3 4 


10 14 


3-6 months . 


— 


1 


1 


3 





1 





3 


1 





— 


— 


1 


2 3 


10 13 


6-12 months . 


— 


1 


2 


2 











2 


— 


2 




3 


1 


4 3 


13 16 


Over 12 months 


2 


1 
8 


12 


9 


1 

2 


2 
3 


2 


1 

9 


3 


— 


— 


2 
6 


5 


7 1 
17 ; 30 


13 14 


Total . . 


2 1 3 


63 


83 


Percentage 


121 i 25-3 


60 


13-2 


60 1 10-9 


26-5 



the high continued and high remittent types together we still find only four cases, 
or 5 per cent, of the whole, which might clinically have easily been mistaken for 
typhoid and in at least two of these the blood count at once excluded that disease. 
The importance of this fact is that over 80 per cent, of typhoid cases show these high 
degrees of pyrexia, mostly of the continued type, so that their great rarity in early 
kala-azar is of extreme value in differentiating between these two much confused 
diseases. 

Next the frequency of the double remittent type in kala-azar is shown in the 
table to have been present in one-fourth of the total cases during their stay in 
•hospital, which was often a comparatively short one. Moreover, four-sevenths 
of them belonged to the difficult group without great enlargement of the spleen. 
Further, it occurred in one-third of the patients admitted within the first month 
of the fever, and in almost one-half of the early cases without much splenic hyper- 
trophy : that is, it occurred in just the most difiicult cases of all to recognize. Now this 
double remittent, or rarely double continued, type 1 have never met with except in 
kala-azar, so that the great diagnostic value of this sign in early kala-azar becomes 

Chabt 9. 




Fairly early kala-azar, showing irregular double remittent fever passing into high continued pyrexia. 



KALA-AZAR CHARTS— COMPARED WITH TYPHOID 



63 



clear, and can hardly be exaggerated. It has frequently enabled me to correctly 
recognize these cases when no other characteristic clinical signs (apart from the 
blood counts) were present, and has never yet misled me. Chart 9 shows the double 
remittent type passing into a high continued one. 

The low remittent type predominated in the eleven cases, but only two of these 
were doubtful ones with small spleens, one being early recognized by the presence 
of marked leucopaenia, while the other was suspected owing to a sister being in 



















Chakt 10. 








ur 

' nr 
w 
no- 

••* 




-f-^ 


-q^-- 


-,t-r — -^ 






t 








n " i 


1 


^4*^^ 


: . .: -' -^ 






■I 


T -:■ : 1" 1?^I= f^;. ,- ■' , . j_ 


, -;_ : ': 11 '- ;J • ,- ; i -- "' 


r ' ; ;.. 






.: ^ V; ;ii 


i : ;- i ■:" 


1 Tl 




it^ 


i %'Ul, L r 5: i- 1" ". '■ \ -' ■ : 


:■::-; i j r : j :• ^ ~'\- - 


■■ . * ■ 


- ^ 




-■;- ■ : 


' rf; ; ^ 


- H -'l ; 








'r:'^ L' i^V -i' 1)^^ ' ^ ^_. 


-■ -■ :-[?. ■"[::-. 1- - 






u 


^\ i 


« Ttjk. . 


•1L' =^^"^1 


;f;i --. 


"■.. ■ 


^1- 


m±^-' --^v. 1:-.; : 


\ . \ -\ \ - ' \- . . : i : " 




A 


tT 


m 


^ff ST 


fT^i 


||m 


-s= 




S-4-:*it 


^[tciS^"^5:^~En 


Si • 


7^\ 


Ife 


m 


•i--=M--rf4H 


M-i^ 




1 


'% 


fm.^m^ 


t' iTT ^5vj|/ W- 




\ 


w 


Mi.^ 


y "tl -\f 




i4. 


m 


: iifhl 


^4^^11-4^^- 4-- 


— £- -X. - — 


T ■«•■ 



Kala-azar showing a" low remittent temperatiire passing into an irregular intermittent one. 

hospital with typical kala-azar at the same time. Chart 10 shows such a case 
in which the parasite of kala-azar was found by spleen puncture after death. 

Only a few cases are classed as of the low continued tjrpe, but several of those 
classed under other heads showed this tjrpe at later dates while it may sometimes 
be present in the early difficult stages as in Chart 11. 

Chart 11. 




Early stage of kala-azar, showing low continued pyrexia followed by low intermittent fever, and end- 
ing fatally several months later. 

The number with a low intermittent type, that is not rising above 101 and 
often not over 100, for days together, is striking, but they are mostly late typical 
cases with very large spleens, such as are readily recognized clinically, while this 
type is rarely met with for long in other tropical fevers, with the exception of the 
low fever of Europeans described on p. 193. 

Although, then, the types are very variable, they are nevertheless of con- 
siderable diagnostic value, for they rarely simulate typical typhoid temperature 
curves, and often show the characteristic double diurnal variation of kala-azar, 
or the low continued and intermittent types, which are far more common in this 
disease than in any other fever. Taken with the blood changes described below, 
they will almost always enable the disease to be recognized in quite its early stages, 
when persistent and adequate quinine treatment will give fair hope of a favour- 
able termination. 



64 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

GENERAL SYMPTOMS IN KALA-AZAR 

It has already been mentioned that in its early stages the most striking thing 
about kala-azar patients is the persistence of high fever with very little general 
constitutional disturbance or physical signs. The following data derived from 
an analysis of the large European Hospital series of cases in aU stages of the affection 
will best illustrate the commoner symptoms. 

RIGORS. — In a large proportion of the early cases a history of rigors is obtained, 
usually coming on daily at the beginning of the disease. In the later stages they 
are much less commonly met with, and may be altogether absent, and it now 
becomes common for a patient to say he feels quite well and has no fever, when the 
clinical thermometer registers anything up to 103° or 104° F. Occasionally in the 
early stages a history may be obtained of two rigors within twenty-four hours, 
while the occurrence of a double rise of temperature is often remembered by the 
patient, and may be an important point in suggesting the nature of the disease. 

HEADACHE. — This symptom was only noted in about one-fourth of the 
cases, being less frequent than in any other form of fever in the tropics, and seldom 
of severe degree. It was more often noted in early than in late cases. 

SICKNESS was also seldom present, being only recorded in one-seventh of the 
series, being thus much rarer than in malarial fevers, while nausea was also very 
uncommon. 

THE LUNGS were quite normal in almost 90 per cent., but pneumonia occurred 
in 4 per cent., usually as a terminal compUcation. This may be accompanied 
by pleurisy ; phthisis also occasionally supervenes in chronic cases. Bronchial 
rales are rarely met with, and are especially uncommon in the' early typhoid-hke 
stages. In the advanced cases some bronchial signs were present in about 10 per 
cent. 

THE HEART in the later anaemic stages frequently shows haemic systolic 
murmurs, but rarely any other complication. The PULSE is as a rule rather rapid, 
being commonly over 100 with a temperature of 103° and upwards, but it may 
occasionally be slow like that of t3rphoid in adult males. It is too inconstant 
to be of much diagnostic value. 

THE BOWELS in the early stages are commonly regular or somewhat con- 
stipated, but diarrhoea at times was recorded in one-sixth of them. In the later 
stages bowel comphcations are much more frequent, and they are often of a 
severe and intractable nature. In one-third of the cases diarrhoea occurred while 
in hospital and in 7 per cent more, dysentery was present. In native patients this 
last serious complication occurs much more frequently than in Europeans, and often 
causes a fatal termination. With looseness of the bowels the size of the spleen 
may become greatly reduced. 



KALA-AZAR— GENERAL SYMPTOMS 65 

THE ABDOMEN is nearly always normal in the early stages, with the exception 
of enlargement of the spleen. Distension was very rare in them, thus contrasting 
with its great frequency in typhoid. In the later stages some distension or tender- 
ness was recorded in one-fifth of the cases, usually in connexion with bowel trouble, 
especially dysentery, but it was usually slight in degree. 

THE SPLEEN AND LIVER 

It is not until we come to the great vascular abdominal organs that we meet 
with the most characteristic organic changes in Kala-azar. These are — great, often 
extreme, enlargement of the spleen, and to a less extent of the liver ; this is the 
most constant feature of the typical stages of the affection, and the former organ 
is often much increased in size even in the early fever. 

THE SPLEEN. — The following data illustrate the size of the spleen in Kala-azar. 
In 70 typical cases of the epidemic disease in Assam this organ was enlarged 
in all. In no less than 945 per cent, it extended to at least 3 ins. below 
the costal margin, in 565 per cent, it reached to the navel or beyond, while in 
27'7 per cent, the lower border was down to at least the level of the anterior superior 
spine of the ihum, in some of which it reached the pubes. In 95 cases of the sporadic 
form of the disease in Calcutta, mostly in natives, and all verified by finding the 
parasite by spleen puncture, this organ reached to the level of the navel or below 
in 80 per cent., while in 10 per cent, it extended to the level of the anterior superior 
spine of the ihum. Nearly aU these cases were in a fairly advanced condition, 
and readily recognized cUnicaUy as either kala-azar or malarial cachexia. 

The degree of enlargement of the spleen and Hver in different stages of Kala- 
azar can be studied in Table III, showing the data of the earher European Calcutta 
Hospital cases classified in accordance with the duration of the disease at the 
time of admission. 

It is clear from this table that there is a progressive enlargement of the spleen 
throughout the course of the disease, for whereas in nearly two-thirds of the cases 
admitted with a history of less than one month's fever the organ did not extend 
more than 2 ins. below the costal margin, yet in only one-seventh of those 
admitted after three months was the spleen as small as this, while in 37 out of 47 
it reached as far as the navel. In only 43 per cent, of the total was the spleen 
not palpable below the ribs, these all being cases of under one month's duration, 
which were subsequently followed up into the typical stages. 

Another striking feature is that in 11 out of 29 patients with a history of less 
than one month's fever the spleen nevertheless reached to or below the navel. In 
some of these there had probably been earher fever which was not recorded, but 
this will not explain all of them, and it is certainly not rare for a patient to come 
for recently commenced fever, and yet to find the spleen very greatly enlarged. 
The disease may thus undoubtedly begin very insidiously with little or no fever 
at first, and thus the incubation period may be prolonged, and the date of 

6 



66 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



TABLE III.— ENLARGEMENT OF LIVER AND SPLEEN AT DIFFERENT 

STAGES OF KALA-AZAR. 





Under 1 
Month. 


1-3 

Months. 


3-6 

Months. 


&-12 
Months. 


Over 1 
Year. 


Total. 


Percentage. 


1. Spleen. 
Normal . 
Just felt . 
1-2 in. . . . 
2-4 in. . . . 
To navel 
Below navel 


4 
6 

8 

4 

7 


1 
4 

1 
6 
5 


1 
2 
1 

1 
9 


1 
2 
2 

13 


1 

3 

11 


4 

9 

16 

5 

14 

45 


4-3 

9-7 ^6-6 
17-2 

5-4] 
15-0 [63.4 
48-4) 


Total . . 


29 


17 


14 


18 16 


93 


— 


Percentage . 


31-2 


18-3 


150 


19-3 i 16-2 


— 


— 


II. Liver. 

Normal . 
Just felt . 
1-2 in. . . . 
2-4 in. . . . 
To navel 


22 6 

1 3 

2 3 
1 2 

— 2 


5 
2 

4 
2 
1 


2 
4 
6 
3 
3 


2 
3 
4 
5 
2 


37 
13 
19 
13 

8 


41-1 
145 
211 
14-5 
8-9 


Total . . 


26 16 


14 


18 


16 


90 


— 


Percentage . 


28-9 1 17-8 


156 


200 


17-8 


— 


— 



infection some time before actual pyrexia becomes evident. In this respect 
it differs from true malarial cachexia, in which a history of repeated ague will 
invariably be obtained, as far as my experience goes. It is also noteworthy that 
even in this comparatively early series the spleen extended down to the navel in 
63 per cent. 

The organ is usually hard, and in very chronic cases its firm edge may 
project so as to be evident to sight through the abdominal wall. In earUer cases, 
especially during high fever, it may be softer, in which case some care is 
necessary before puncturing the organ is undertaken. It may also vary rapidly in 
size from week to week in the earUer more acute cases, increasing with high 
remittent pyrexia, and decreasing with low intermittent fever. Still more striking 
is the way in which an apparently chronic and very hard spleen, reaching to below 
the navel, or even to the pubes, will entirely disappear once more beneath the ribs 
within a few months of the final cessation of the fever, the patient at the same 
time recovering his strength and becoming particularly well nourished instead of 
being a Hving skeleton. Such cases never relapse in my experience, or in the much 
larger one of Dr. Dodds Price in Assam, but as long as the organ remains much 
enlarged and low fever and emaciation persist, so long is the patient in danger of 
an acute exacerbation of the pyrexia or the supervention of some fatal compKcation. 

As a former writer on epidemic kala-azar has stated that it would be absurd to 




Plate 6. — Dropsical type of Kala-azar produced by 
cirrhosis of the hver. 



ITo face page 67. 



KALA-AZAR— BLOOD CHANGES 67 

attach any importance to enlargement of the spleen in kala-azar in such a malarious 
country as Assam, it may be well to add that among 200 healthy coolies on a most 
malarious tea-garden (which, however, was free from kala-azar), I found only 1 
per cent, with spleens down to the navel, 6 per cent, extending 3 ins. below the 
ribs, and some degree of enlargement just one-fourth of the whole : figures which 
effectually disprove that contention, 

THE LIVER. — This organ was enlarged in 43 per cent, of my Assam cases, in 
75 per cent, of the more chronic sporadic disease at the Calcutta Medical College 
Hospital and in 59 per cent, of the earlier European Hospital series. The size 
of the organ in different stages of the disease in the last series is shown in the second 
part of Table III, which well illustrates the progressive enlargement with the progress 
of the affection. Thus during the first month it was nearly always normal, and 
never very greatly hypertrophied, in spite of the spleen often reaching the navel 
in them, while after six months it was increased in size in over nine-tenths of the 
cases, and not very rarely reached the navel. 

The Uver is usually firm, and becomes very hard in the more chronic cases. 
In those which last for two or more years, as is not very rare in the sporadic disease, 
an actual cirrhosis of the liver may ensue, of a very peculiar type, which I hope 
to describe more fully in another place. It is characterized by an absolutely smooth 
surface to the organ, but on section it is found to be exceedingly tough, and so firm 
that digital pressure has no effect on it. Microscopically it shows a very diffuse 
intracellular cirrhosis, in the fibro-cellular tissue of which shrimken parasites of 
kala-azar may still be visible with a high power. The Hver cells are extremely 
atrophied, so that but httle healthy secreting structure remains. 

Advanced stages of this form of cirrhosis are accompanied by ascites and the 
usual symptoms of this affection of the liver. Plate 6, opposite this page, illustrates 
the appearance in this type of kala-azar. It may run a slow course, but is 
generally ultimately fatal, although in one case shown me by Dr. Price recovery 
followed repeated tapping. The spleen is usually also greatly enlarged, an important 
point in distinguishing this cirrhosis from other forms, but it is generally very 
difficult to puncture the organ on account of its sinking back into the ascitic 
fluid the moment the needle touches it. The parasite may, however, sometimes 
be found by puncturing the liver itself. Repeated tapping is the only measure 
which is Hkely to ameliorate the condition. 

THE BLOOD CHANGES IN KALA-AZAR 

As the parasite of kala-azar is found much less frequently and with far greater 
difficulty, especially in fairly early cases, in the peripheral blood than are those of 
malaria, any alterations in the composition of the blood which may be of diagnostic 
value are of the greatest practical importance, and these have been carefully studied 
in a large number of cases with the following results, 

DEGREE OF ANAEMIA. — Chnically marked anaemia is only a feature of the 
later stages of the disease, although the haemocytometer shows some decrease of 
the red corpuscles to be present in the great majority of the cases after the first 



68 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



month. Table IV gives the data from 83 cases in the Calcutta European 
Hospital in which the counts were made, classed according to the duration of the 
disease at the time the blood was examined. 

TABLE IV. 



Red Corpuscles. 


Under 1 Month. 


1-6 Months. 


Over 6 Months. 


Total. 


+ 4,000,000 

2,500,000-4,000,000 . . 
-2,500,000 


11 55% 

8 40% 
1 5% 


7 25-9% 

18 66-7% 

2 7-4% 


7 19-4% 
19 52-8% 
10 27-8% 


25 30-1% 
45 54-2% 
13 15-6% 



The table shows that the anaemia progressively increases with the duration of 
the disease, and it rarely reaches the advanced degree of under 2,500,000 red 
corpuscles per cubic millimetre in less than six months from the commencement of 
the fever. Further, in only 3 cases did the number fall below 2,000,000, the 
lowest count being 1,770,000 in a case of over a year's duration. High degrees 
of anaemia are usually of bad prognostic import, but 3 cases with counts between 
2 and 2 J miUion red corpuscles recovered. The moderate degrees of between 2 J 
and 4 miUions are most frequently met with, except during the first month of 
fever when the majority of the patients showed over 4 miUions. 

The comparatively sUght degree of the anaemia, except occasionally in the 
late stages of kala-azar, is an important point of difference between this disease 
and true malarial cachexia, with which it has hitherto been confused, for in a small 
series of true chronic malaria with markedly enlarged spleen, in kala-azar free 
cooUe houses in Assam, less than 2| million red corpuscles were found in 30 per 
cent, of the cases, in spite of their being mostly well nourished and not showing 
the characteristic wasting of kala-azar. Fiu-ther, in Lahore, where the later disease 
is unknown, anaemia is a very marked cUnical feature of the widely prevalent true 
malarial cachexia seen in the Punjab {see p. 228). 

THE HAEMOGLOBIN AND COLOUR INDEX.— The percentage of the haemo- 
globin in kala-azar falls in much the same proportion as the number of the red 
corpuscles, so that in 50 observations made in Assam the haemoglobin value, 
or colour index, averaged exactly the same as that of healthy natives of that province, 
namely 0*65 — the normal figure for these vegetarian people being much lower 
than the European standard. In this respect the blood in kala-azar presents similar 
characters to that of malaria, the anaemia in both diseases being of the pernicious 
type. On the other hand, this feature served to completely differentiate kala-azar 
from anchylostomiasis, with which it had been reported to be identical in 1891, 
for in the latter the anaemia is so typically of the chlorotic type that uncompHcated 
cases of the two diseases could be absolutely differentiated by this point alone, 
as shown in my 1897 report on kala-azar. 

THE NUMBER OF THE WHITE CORPUSCLES.— The changes in the leuco- 



KALA-AZAR— LEUCOCYTES 



69 



TABLE Va.— LEUCOCYTE COUNTS IN SPORADIC KALA-AZAR VERIFIED BY 

SPLEEN PUNCTURE. 





Died. 


Worse. 


1 Doubtful. 


Improved 


' Total. 

1 


Percentage. 


Pabt I. — Total leucocyte count 














in 76 cases : — 






1 








Over 6,000 


— 


— 


— 


— 





00 


4,000-6,000 


2 


— 


— 


— 


2 


26 


3,000-4,000 


— 


— 


1 


1 


2 


2.6 


2,000-3,000 


2 


1 


1 4 


10 


17 


224 


1,000-2,000 


5 


4 


6 


8 


23 


30-3 


1,000 and less .... 


9 


5 


9 


9 


32 


42. 1 


Total 








1 




Part II. — Ratio of white to 














red corpuscles : — 














1 to 750 


2 


— 


1 


— 


3 


40 


1-750 to 1-1,000. . . . 


1 


— 


2 


4 


7 


9-2 


1-1,000 to 1-1,500 . . . 


1 


1 


7 


4 


13 


17-1 


1-1,500 to 1-2,000 . . . 


4 


3 


1 


6 


14 


184 


1-2,000 to 1-3,000 ... 


2 


2 


5 


3 


12 


15.8 


1-3,000 to 1-4,000 ... 


3 


1 


4 


7 


15 


19-7 


Less than 1-4,000 . . . ( 


6 


3 





4 


12 


158 


Total less than 1-1,600 | 


14 


9 


10 


20 


63 


69.7 


Grand total ; 


18 


19 


20 


28 


76 





Part III. — Total polynuclear 

white corpuscles : — 

Over 3,000 . 

2,000-3,000 . 

1,000 to 2,000 

500 to 1,000 

250 to 500 . 

Less than 250 



Total 



17 



1 
2 
5 
6 
1 

16 



7 
1 

25 





2 

13 

22 

21 

8 



66 



00 
3.1) 
197 
33-3 
317 
12- 



Part IV. — Large mononuclear 
count in uncomplicated 
cases : — 
to 8 per cent. 
8 to 12 
12 to 15 
Over 15 ,, 

Total . . 







4 


6 


1 


2 


5 


8 


1 


4 


4 


11 


6 


2 


8 


18 


8 


8 


21 


42 



119 
191 
26-2 
42-8 



70 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

cytes in kala-azar are much more characteristic and important than those of the 
red corpuscles. They are of two kinds, namely an alteration in the total number 
and a change in the proportions of the different varieties of the white corpuscles. 
In uncomphcated cases of the disease there is always a reduction in the total number 
of the leucocytes, which soon attains to a high degree. In Table Va are given the 
counts obtained in 76 cases of the sporadic form of kala-azar mostly in natives 
examined in Calcutta Medical College Hospital, all verified by demonstrating 
the parasite in the spleen blood, and nearly all in a typical fairly advanced stage. 
In only four were over 3,000 leucocytes per cubic millimetre found, and in three 
of these inflammatory compHcations, which might be expected to increase them, 
were present, whUe the fourth was a recovering case with very few small parasites 
in the spleen blood. In 22 per cent, more from 2,000 to 3,000 were found, while 
in no less than 72 per cent, the leucocytes numbered less than 2,000, in the majority 
of which they were actually less than 1,000 per cubic millimetre. Such low counts 
as these are rarely met with in other fevers, although they may occasionally fall 
to between 2,000 and 3,000 in true malarial cachexia. 

The period of the disease when the marked leucopaenia occurs may be studied 
in Table Vb, showing the counts in 84 sporadic kala-azar cases in the Euro- 
pean General Hospital, where they sometimes come earUer under observation. 
Here it wiU be seen that during the first month of the disease the leucocytes may 
not infrequently be only slightly reduced in numbers, although even at this early 
period less than 2,000 per cubic millimetre were found in one-haK of the cases. 
Among the 10 cases showing over 3,000, 4 were uncomplicated very early ones, 
but all but one of the remainder were suffering from some leucocyte-increasing 
inflammatory compHcation. In 62 per cent, of the total less than 2,000 leucocytes 
were present, even in this comparatively early series. 

THE REDUCTION IN THE WHITE CORPUSCLES RELATIVELY TO THE 
RED. — As in true malarial cachexia there may sometimes be just as marked leuco- 
paenia as in many cases of kala-azar, the total leucocyte count will not always sufiice 
for the differentiation of these two clinically closely similar conditions. This veiy 
desirable end may, however, be obtained by counting the number of the red cor- 
puscles as well as the white, and working out the ratio between the two. Table Va, 
Part II shows that the figures obtained in 76 cases verified by finding 
the parasites of kala-azar in the spleen blood. The normal ratio of about 1 white 
to 750 red corpuscles was only observed in 3 of the cases, while in 7 more 
it was between that figure and 1 to 1,000, but no less than 8 of these 10 had 
some inflammatory complication to increase the leucocytes, such as dysentery, 
phtliisis, cancrum oris or meningitis. The remaining 2 were recovering, having 
lost their fever and showed very few parasites. In 13 more cases, or 17 
per cent., the ratio was between 1 to 1,000 and 1 to 1,500, a shght relative reduction 
of the white corpuscles which occurs occasionally in tjrphoid and also in seven 
day fever, but rarely, in my experience, in true malaria. The remaining 70 per 
cent, of the cases showed less than 1 white to 1,500 red, which is less than half the 



KALA- AZAR— LEUCX)PAENIA 7 1 

proper proportion, while in half the total cases the ratio was less than 1 to 2,000 : 
a degree of relative reduction of the white corpuscles which I have not met with in 
any other fever which could be confused with kala-azar. If cases showing inflamma- 
tory compUcations are excluded, then the proportion of the uncomplicated kala- 
azar cases in which the ratio was less than 1 to 1,500 rises to nearly 90 per cent., 
80 that this degree of relative leucopaenia is almost absolutely diagnostic of these 
typical stages of sporadic kala-azar, and very similar figures were previously obtained 
in a number of the Assam Epidemic cases in 1897. 

Here, again, it becomes of importance to ascertain how early in the disease 
this sign is present, and in Table Vb, Part II of the European Hospital series the 
necessary data wiU be found. The most striking thing about this table is the very 
close similarity of the figures in this comparatively early series of cases with those 
just given for the later native hospital ones. Thus in only 10*8 per cent, was the 
ratio of white to red corpuscles over 1 to 1,000, in aU but one of which there was 
some inflammatory complication, while the exceptional one had been free from fever 
for some time. In the intermediate degree of from 1 to 1,000 to 1 to 1,500 there 
was slightly a larger percentage of cases, namely 21*7 per cent., nearly half of which 
were in patients who had suffered from fever for less than one month, so that this 
blood change is somewhat less marked in the very early stages of the disease. On 
the other hand, in no less than 67 per cent, of even this series (including compli- 
cated cases) the ratio of white to red corpuscles was less than 1 to 1,500, and in 50 
per cent, under 1 to 2,000. 

The time at which the count is made is not without importance, for in the 
epidemic kala-azar I recorded some years ago that the leucopaenia is less marked 
during high fever than during remissions or low intermittent pyrexina. On exami- 
ing the charts of the European series in which the intermediate degree of relative 
leucopaenia had been detected, namely between 1 to 1,000 to 1 to 1,500, it was found 
that in nearly every uncomplicated case the blood had been taken during remittent 
pyrexia, except in a few exceedingly early cases not recognizable as kala-azar until 
a later date. It is therefore clear that if a doubtful degree of relative leucopaenia 
is found during remittent fever, a second count should be made when the remittent 
undulation is at an end, when a characteristic degree of this condition will probably 
be met with if the case is one of kala-azar. 

To sum up, it may be laid down that in any case of fever which may possibly 
be kala-azar the finding of less than 1 white to every 1,000 red corpuscles, and 
still more of greater degrees of relative leucopaenia, will be almost diagnostic of 
the disease. This degree of the condition may, however, be absent in kala-azar 
firstly, during any inflammatory compHcation, such as pneumonia, dysentery, cancrum 
oris, meningitis, phthisis, etc., secondly, during high remittent pyrexia occasionally : 
and thirdly, during the very earliest stages of the disease such as the first month of 
fever, or in recovering patients who have been free from fever for some time. 

THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT.— In addition to the decrease 
in the total number of the leucocytes in kala-azar, we also find a marked change 



72 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



TABLE Vb.— LEUCOCYTE COUNTS IN SPORADIC KALA-AZAR OF VARIOUS 

DURATION. 





Under 1 


1-3 


3-6 


6-12 


Over 1 


Total 


Per. 




Month. 


Months. 


Months. 


Months. 


Year. 


Cases. 


oentage. 


Pabt I. — ^Total leucocyte 
















counts 
















Over 6,000 


— 


— 


— 


1 


1 


2 


2-4 


4,000-6,000 .... 


4 


2 


— 


— 


2 


8 


9-6 


3,000-4,000 .... 


2 


— 


1 


3 


1 


7 


8-4 


2,000-3,000 .... 


4 


2 


3 


2 


3 


14 


16-9 


1,000-2,000 .... 


8 


6 


4 


11 


3 


31 


37-4 


1,000 and less . . . 


2 


5 


6 


6 


3 


22 


25-3 


Total .... 


20 


14 


14 


23 


13 


84 





Part II. — Ratio of white 
to red corpuscles : — 
1 to 750 . . . . 
1-750 to 1-1,000 . 
1-1,000 to 1-1,500 . 
1-1,500 to 1-2,000 . 
1-2,000 to 1-3,000 . 
Less than 1-3,000 . 



Total less than 1-1,500 



12 



10 



12 



2 


4 


7 

2 

18 


4 


4 


i 3 


2 


14 


7 


— 


18 


7 


3 


24 


17 


5 


56 


23 


13 


83 



8-4 
2-4 
21-7 
16-9 
217 
27-9 

66-6 



Grand Total 



20 



14 



13 



Paut III. — Total polynu- 
elear white corpuscles 
Over 3,000 . 
2,000 to 3,000 
1,000 to 2,000 
600 to 1,000. 
250 to 500 . 
Less than 250 



Total 



21 



12 



12 







* 





2 


4 


— 


2 


7 


3 


3 


19 


5 


2 


21 


7 


1 


15 


4 


2 


10 


19 


12 


76 



52 
9-2 
260 
27-6 
19-7 
131 



Part IV. — Percentage of 
large mononuclear 
white corpuscles : — 

to 8 per cent. . 

8 to 12 „ . . 

12 to 15 „ . . 

Over 15 ,, . . 



3 


1 


4 


1 


2 


11 


5 


5 


2 . 


4 


2 


18 


6 


3 


1 


6 


2 


18 


6 


1 


6 


8 


4 


25 



15-3 
250 
260 
34-7 



in the proportions of the different kinds. Briefly, this consists in a considerable 
and not rarely an extreme, reduction of the percentage of the polymorphonuclear 



KALA-AZAR— INCREASE OF MONONUCLEARS 73 

neutrophiles (called by the simpler term polynuclears henceforward) and eosinophiles 
accompanied by a relative increase in the proportion of the large mononuclears and 
lymphocytes, although owing to the great total reduction these also are commonly 
below the normal number per cubic millimetre of the blood. Of these changes 
the increase of the large mononuclears is most important from the diagnostic point 
of view, and the decrease of the polynuclears from that of prognosis. 

THE LARGE MONONUCLEAR INCREASE in 42 uncomplicated cases veri- 
fied by finding the parasite in the spleen blood, is shown in Table Va, Part IV, 
classified in accordance with whether they were continuing to get fever, and so 
the disease was in a progressive state, or the fever was much less or had ceased 
and they were improving, at least temporarily. Among the progressive class 
only 1 out of 21 cases showed a large mononuclear count within the normal 
limit of not more than 8 per cent., only 4 showed less than 12 per cent., while in 
81 per cent. 12 or more per 100 leucocytes were large mononuclears. On 
the other hand, among the improving cases 19 per cent, gave a normal large 
mononuclear count, and in 43 per cent, the number did not exceed 12 per cent., 
while in the remaining 57 per cent, that number was exceeded. Of the total 
number in 31 per cent, under 12 per cent, were found and in 69 per cent, over 
that number. 

Similar figures for the earHer European series classed according to the duration 
of the disease are given in Table Vb, Part IV. The cases of six or more months* 
duration furnish almost identical figures with those of the native series just detailed. 
In the earlier periods, however, the large mononuclear increase of over 12 per 
cent, was less frequently met with, for in only a Httle over half the cases examined 
within the first six months of the disease were over that proportion found, while 
in 19 per cent, the count was within the normal limits. It is clear from these 
results that this change progresses with the length of the disease, but is not 
sufficiently constant in the earlier stages to be of much diagnostic significance by 
itself, except as against tj^hoid. 

The relationship of the large mononuclear increase to the temperature chart 
when the blood was taken is also of importance, for in malaria this change is less 
marked or even absent during pyrexia, even when present in the intermissions. A 
separate analysis of the cases given in Table Vb from this point of view showed 
that the large mononuclear increase had been found in a rather larger percentage of 
the examinations made during high remittent fever than when it was intermittent 
or absent, and was still less common when the temperature was quite normal, 
so that kala-azar differs from malaria in this respect. 

As the large mononuclear increase is common to both kala-azar and malarial 
cachexia its presence is of no value in differentiating these two similar diseases. 
On the other hand, it is of the utmost value in separating the high remittent fever 
of kala-azar in its difficult early stages from typhoid, under which heading such 
cases are almost always returned, for Table XVII on p. 140 shows that an increase 
of the large mononuclears in typhoid during fever is very rare. 



74 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

As it is just in this early stage of kala-azar that the relative leucopaenia some- 
times fails to differentiate the disease from tjrphoid ; the presence of a large mononu- 
clear increase in the former disease may be of great help in raising a suspicion that 
the disease is not tjrphoid, and may be kala-azar, and a negative Widal test after 
the tenth day of the disease will serve to strengthen such an opinion. 

THE DECREASE OF THE POLYNUCLEAR LEUCOCYTES is shown in Table 
Va, Part III, which gives the total numbers per cubic millimetre of blood, calculated 
from the total and differential leucocyte counts in 66 cases verified by finding 
the parasite in the spleen blood. Bearing in mind that the normal number is 
about 5,000, the great reduction in kala-azar is brought out by the fact that in 
no case were over 3,000 found, while both the two cases in which between 2,000 
and 3,000 were present had inflammatory complications. Thus no uncomplicated 
cases had as many as two-fifths of the normal number, in 77 per cent, of them under 
1 ,000, or one-fifth, of the normal number of polynuclears were present in the blood, 
while in 40 per cent, they were less than one-tenth of the proper total. In children 
the polynuclears several times did not number over 5 per cent, of the total leucocytes, 
and in such less than one-hundredth of the normal total polynuclears were present. 
Moreover the table shows that the prognosis becomes progressively worse as the 
polynuclears become fewer and fewer, so that this estimation is of definite prognostic 
value. The European Hospital cases in Table Vb, Part III, again show that this 
also is a progressive change, being much less marked in the first month of the disease, 
and becoming much more often extreme after six months of fever. 

This extraordinary polynuclear decrease is of great importance from another 
point of view. It will be shown a httle further on that a considerable majority 
of kala-azar patients actually die from some secondary inflammatory compHcation 
especially those produced by coccal and bacterial invasions {see p. 75). That 
the loss of nine-tenths or more of the phagocytic polynuclear leucocytes will strongly 
predispose to such terminal invasions will be evident. 

The great reduction in the polynuclear leucocytes is no doubt connected with 
the fact, that when the parasites of kala-azar are found in the peripheral circula- 
tion, they are almost invariably situated in these corpuscles, and are pretty certainly 
carried in them to the spleen, Hver and bone marrow, where they accumulate and 
multiply. The steady reduction in the polynuclears is thus readily explained, 
and when it reaches a high degree the very fatal terminal inflammatory infections 
are liable to ensue. As comparatively few cases die from the primary fever in spite 
of it frequently persisting for many months without some such secondary com- 
pHcation, this polynuclear decrease appears to be the most essential pathogenic 
change in bringing about a fatal termination in kala-azar. This view of the 
pathology of the disease is supported by the fact, that when any great increase of 
the polynuclears is brought about by the reaction of the system to any secondary 
inflammatory complication, a temporary and not very rarely a permanent improve- 
ment in the case sets in, as in No. 6 (p. 58). On the other hand, if no such increased 
polynuclear reaction occurs during such inflammatory compUcations as cancrum 



KALA-AZAK— TERMINAL COMPLICATIONS 75 

oris, etc., then the prognosis is exceedingly bad and death usually rapidly ensues. 
In a few cases injections of the staphylococcus vaccine has been followed by a 
marked increase of the polynuclear corpuscles and improvement in the condition of 
the patient, although both are sometimes only more temporary in nature, and 
work is required before the exact value of this treatment can be ascertained. 

THE LYMPHOCYTES are increased together with the large mononuclears 
in proportion to the reduction in the percentage of the polynuclears and eosinophiles. 
As such an increase also occurs in both true malarial cachexia and in typhoid this 
change is of little diagnostic value. 

THE EOSINOPHILES are decreased, in the absence of intestinal parasites, 
so that in a count of 250 to 500 leucocytes as a rule no eosinophiles will be met 
with. This change is apparently similar in nature to the loss of the polynuclears, 
but is less significant owing to the small numbers of these corpuscles normally present 
in the blood. 

THE COAGULABILITY OF THE BLOOD.— The frequency with which haemor- 
rhages of various kinds complicate kala-azar is pointed out on p. 77. In such 
cases the coagulabihty of the blood is decreased, the time taken for the blood 
to clot in Wright's tube being longer than the normal lower limit of five minutes. 
This change is most marked in anaemic cases. In patients who are very anaemic, 
or have suffered from haemorrhages, spleen puncture is dangerous and should not 
be done unless the blood has first been proved to be clotting within the normal 
time limit. 

COMPLICATIONS. — The frequency with which kala-azar is terminated by 
some inflammatory complication has already been mentioned, and is well illus- 
trated by 40 post mortems in natives made by me in at the Medical College 
Hospital, Calcutta. All but 7 showed some serious local disease, and some 
of them more than one. In 11 pneumonia, in 10 dysentery, in 7 cancrum 
oris, in 2 each pneumonococcus meningitis, purpura, cerebral haemorrhage, and 
phthisis respectively were found in 1 pericarditis. In several of the cancrum 
oris cases staphylococci or streptococci were cultivated from the spleen, thus 
revealing a general septic infection. The extreme reduction of the polynuclear 
leucocytes in kala-azar, in which they frequently fall to from one-twentieth to 
one-hundredth of their normal numbers, easily explains the frequency with which 
they fall victims to the specific organisms of pneumonia, dysentery, phthisis, or 
the cocci of septic infections, including cancrum oris, in which I have never been 
able to find the diphtheria bacillus, which has been met with in European cases 
of this disease. 

Among 111 cases of sporadic kala-azar, including 37 children and twice as 
many adults in the European Hospital the compUcations shown in Table VI were 
met with. 



76 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



TABLE VI.— THE COMPLICATIONS OF KALA-AZAR. 



Cancrum oris . 
Other septic conditions 
Pneumonia 

Phthisis 

Dysentery .... 
Haemorrhages . 

Total .... 



In Children 
up to 16. 



In Adults. 



11 

2 
2 
1 
4 
1 



22 



26 



Total. 

19 
4 
9 
3 
5 
6 



46 



Died. 



11 
2 
5 
1 
2 
5 



26 



Percentage. 



17-2 
3-6 
8-1 
2-7 
3-6 
5-4 



41-4 



In addition pleurisy, dropsy, cystitis and tenderness of the testicle occurred 
in one case each. 

CANCRUM ORIS AND OTHER SEPTIC CONDITIONS are the most frequent 
and important complications. The latter include mastoid abscess, otitis media, 
sloughing of the scrotum and extensive ulceration following an eruption of herpes 
zoster. The remarkable frequency of these conditions in children, over one-third 
of whom showed them while in hospital, is of interest in connexion with the fact 
that the reduction of the total polynuclear white corpuscles is commonly more 
extreme in them than in adults, under 100 per cubic millimetre, or less than one- 
fiftieth of the normal numbers having repeatedly been found in children in the 
advanced stages of kala-azar. Moreover, I have occasionally found a reduced 
opsonic index to staphylococci shortly before an attack of cancrum oris. Since 
injections of staphylococcus vaccine have been used to increase the number of white 
corpuscles, cases of cancrum oris in children so treated have become distinctly 
fewer, while at least temporary improvement of an actual cancrum oris has also 
been observed after such injections, but more work is required in this direction 
before the precise value of this treatment can be decided. 

Case 6 illustrates the extraordinary recovery which sometimes takes place 
after an attack of cancrum oris, when a considerable increase of more especially the 
polynuclear leucocytes follows the septic comphcation ; several other similar perma- 
nent cures raise a hope that in time the vaccine treatment may yield numerous 
similar favourable results. 



PNEUMONIA is the next most frequent and fatal comphcation in kala-azar, 
and here again permanent cures occasionally foUow recovery from the disease, 
if a marked increase of the polynuclear leucocytes ensues. Unfortunately, however, 
this complication is an exceptionally fatal one, while it differs from ordinary 
forms of pneumonia by the absence of a marked leucocytosis, the greatly reduced 
number being only slightly increased up to from 3,000 to 6,000 as a rule : a pecuHarity 
which distinguishes acute inflammation of the lungs in kala-azar from other forms. 
The pneumococcus is most commonly present in the disease. 



KALA-AZAR— DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 



77 



DYSENTERY is less common in European patients than in natives, and also 

'gives rise to at least a temporary increase of the leucocytes, and especially of the 

polynuclears, which, according to Patton, may frequently contain the parasites 

of kala-azar in the peripheral circulation. It is usually of the bacillary type, 

Shiga's bacillus having been cultivated post mortem by me in several cases. 

PHTHISIS is usually a late complication in chronic cases, this leads to some 
increase of the leucocytes, and in one case recovery from both diseases occurred. 

HAEMORRHAGES form a common and very fatal compUcation, and may 
occur in various parts of the body. In several cases a meningeal haemorrhage has 
terminated the disease, both in the epidemic and sporadic forms. I have seen 
fatal haemorrhage from the bowel, and post mortem in another case the stomach 
showed extensive sub-peritoneal extravasation. Cancrum oris may also end 
in uncontrollable loss of blood. More frequent than these are purpuric haemor- 
rhages in the skin, most commonly on the legs, but often on the trunk as well. 
They are accompanied by a reduction in the coagulability of the blood, and are of 
very bad prognostic import ; five of the six cases in which haemorrhages occurred 
died in hospital, the remaining one was discharged in a very bad condition and 
was lost sight of. In fact I know of no case which recovered after well marked 
purpura had appeared. 

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF KALA-AZAR 

On account of the great difficulties of the subject it may be well to recapitulate 
the most important points in the distinction of kala-azar from other fevers met 
with in the tropics, treating separately the characteristic advanced and the less 
marked early stages. 

DIAGNOSIS OF THE TYPICAL ADVANCED STAGE FROM CHRONIC 
MALARIA. — This presents httle difficulty at the present time if the patient is 
under observation for some days, although at a single clinical examination it 
may be impossible to distinguish between kala-azar and a true malarial cachexia. 
The effect of quinine will soon decide the point, for in a malarial case it will 
stop the fever within about four days, and prevent recurrences as long as it is 
persisted with. In kala-azar the drug will commonly lower the temperature curve, 
especially if it presents the remittent type ; but low intermittent fever will con- 
tinue for a long time in spite of large doses of the drug. Moreover, a four hourly 
chart in kala-azar will not present the tjrpical paroxysms of malarial fevers 
described on pp. 207-212, but it more commonly shows a low continued or an inter- 
mittent rise to only about 100 ; this does not occur for any length of time in 
malaria. The double remittent diurnal rise of temperature, so characteristic of 
kala-azar, may also appear at any time in the course of the disease, but most 
commonly during remittent exacerbations of the fever. 

On examining the blood when no quinine has been taken for several days. 



78 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

malarial parasites will be absent in uncomplicated kala-azar, but usually readily 
found in chronic malaria. The differential leucocyte count shows the same changes 
in both diseases, but the ratio of the white to the red corpuscles will generally 
allow of their being readily distinguished ; for in malaria they are reduced in about 
equal proportions, while in uncompHcated kala-azar the white are reduced at least 
twice as much as the red so that the proportion of white to red is less than 1 to 1,500, 
and commonly much lower. The most extreme degrees of leucopaenia are practi- 
cally diagnostic of kala-azar as against any other tropical fever. According to 
several writers the parasite of kala-azar can be found in the peripheral blood in a 
large proportion of advanced cases, always situated in the leucocytes, and especially 
the polynuclear variety. 

By attention to the above points the typical stages of kala-azar can readily 
be recognized, and spleen puncture, which may be dangerous in these advanced 
cases, is very rarely required to establish the diagnosis. 

Malta fever, fortunately, is not known to occur in those parts of India where 
kala-azar prevails, as in chronic cases the temperature curve may somewhat 
resemble that of kala-azar. The spleen and Hver in Malta fever, however, very 
rarely present the great enlargement of the protozoal disease, while the leucocytes are 
not decreased in numbers, but tend to be rather slightly increased. The serum 
test will further distinguish any doubtful cases. 

Relapsing fever also occurs in parts of India which are free from kala-azar, 
but clinically they can hardly be confused, and a glance at a stained blood film 
will allow the distinguishing leucocytosis of relapsing fever to be recognized. 

THE EARLY STAGES OF KALA-AZAR.— The early diagnosis presents such 
great difficulties that until very recently it has never been accompHshed. It 
was only by examining every fever case in the Calcutta European Hospital 
for two years and following them up, that I was able to obtain the necessary material 
for the description of the early stages of the disease. The remittent pyrexia of 
early kala-azar has nearly always been mistaken for either typhoid, or " remittent 
malaria." The latter disease can be readily excluded now that we know that the 
pyrexia of any malarial fever is always stopped by adequate quinine treatment with- 
in about four days — ^never the case in early kala-azar. 

The differentiation from TYPHOID and PARA-TYPHOID is a much more 
difficult matter. The high continued type of fever, especially with a slow pulse, 
is almost conclusive evidence of typhoid a,s against early kala-azar, while the high 
remittent type is almost equally rare in the latter disease. Some typhoids, how- 
ever, show the low remittent type which is common in kala-azar, and if a negative 
serum test has also been obtained, the blood changes must be turned to for help. 
Especially frequent in these early stages is the double remittent type of pyrexia I 
have described, for although I have never seen it in typhoid or malaria, its occurrence 
is almost, if not quite, diagnostic of kala-azar : the first case recognized in a Euro- 
pean inBombaybyL.r.Childe,I.M.S., was first suspected on account of the appear- 
ance of this sign. The absence of severe constitutional disturbance and of abdominal 



KALA-AZAR— TREATMENT 79 

or respiratory symptoms with a persistent remittent fever, also points to kala-azar 
as against tjrphoid. Moreover, the spleen is commonly enlarged down to the navel 
quite early in the pyrexia of kala-azar, but not in any other tropical fever that I 
know of : a point of great diagnostic value. 

In addition to the above clinical features, we derive most valuable assistance 
from the blood changes. The most important of these is undoubtedly the great 
relative reduction of the white corpuscles, which has been met with in an extreme 
degree in some very early cases, even before the spleen had become at all enlarged, 
and alone led me to a correct diagnosis. In addition there is commonly a marked 
increase in the percentage of the large mononuclears, which rarely occurs in the early 
stages of typhoid, and so may be considered as an important point in favour of 
early kala-azar. Unfortunately the parasites of kala-azar have not hitherto been 
frequently found in the peripheral blood in the early stages of the fever, but now 
that they are known to be present there in the great majority of advanced cases, 
it is to be hoped that with improved technique they may also be detected in the 
difficult early periods. 

The above points will usually aUow of a diagnosis of kala-azar being made 
before the advanced condition is reached, while prolonged quinine treatment 
commenced early gives a much better chance of success than when only begun in 
the late stages. It is for this reason that I think spleen or liver pimcture is 
sometimes advisable to confirm the diagnosis in doubtful early cases, at which 
time it can be safely done with the precautions mentioned on page 28. Without 
the certainty afforded by finding the parasite it is difficult to get patients to sub- 
mit to the very prolonged quinine treatment, which has alone, so far, saved an 
appreciable proportion of these unfortunate patients. 

TREATMENT. — Although much has been done to elucidate the pathology 
of kala-azar during the last four years, unfortunately the treatment of the disease 
has made no corresponding progress, and is still in a most unsatisfactory state. 
In Madras, indeed, I am informed that almost every case is believed to die, the 
mortality being estimated at 98 per cent., the highest figure reached in the Nowgong 
tea estates in the epidemic form, while that of several hundred cases treated by 
Dr. Dodds Price at the height of the epidemic gave an average mortality of 96 per 
cent. Dr. Price's cases were treated with thymol first, to exclude ankylostomiasis, 
quinine in moderate doses being generally used during the several periods the 
patients were in hospital, but it was the common opinion that quinine failed to check 
the fever in the same way that it did malaria, and many thought it quite useless and 
gave but little as is also the case in Madras at the present time. In my 1 897 report 
I strongly dissented from this view, and urged that quinine does have a definite 
effect in controlling the severity of the fever, even when it does not stop it altogether. 
I recommended that it should be given in large doses, and persisted with for 
months together if necessary. Several years' further experience in Calcutta has only 
served to confirm me in that opinion, for I have repeatedly seen a high remittent 
fever reduced to a comparatively harmless low intermittent one by increasing the 



80 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

quantity of quinine given, 60 gr., and in some cases 90 gr., a day having been taken 
for considerable periods with nothing but good effects beyond being sometimes 
distressing to the patients. 

Once the temperature has fallen to the low intermittent type, it can often be 
kept down to that point for a long time by smaller doses, 20 gr. in the morning 
being commonly effectual. That this line of treatment gives far better results than 
those admitted by unbelievers in quinine will be clear from the fact that after the 
publication of my report, Dr. Dodds Price systematically tried a long course of quinine 
treatment, and when he worked out for me the results of several years' experience, 
he found that the mortality of 500 consecutive cases was only 75 per cent., the remain- 
ing 25 per cent, having permanently recovered, against 4 per cent, in the earlier 
series quoted above. Now as these patients were indentured coolies, who remained 
working on the gardens, often for years, after getting over a typical attack of kala- 
azar (the diagnosis of which in its characteristic stages presents no difficulties to 
Dr. Price with his fifteen years' daily experience of the disease, while in some of 
them the parasite was also found by spleen puncture), there can be absolutely no 
doubt about their absolute recovery, some of them having also been seen by me both 
during and after their attacks. 

Moreover, these unquestionable results of Dr. Price's are confirmed by my own 
smaller experience in Calcutta under less favourable conditions for following up 
my patients. Thus, out of 65 cases in the European hospital during the last three 
years of which I have notes, 18 who left the hospital in a doubtful condition I have 
not been able to get further news of, leaving 47 other cases. Of these, 21 died either 
in hospital or after leaving it ; 9 more, who left in a worse condition than they came, 
may be counted as having died — leaving 7, or 14' 88 per cent., who left hospital 
after having lost their fever and greatly improved, a fair proportion of them 
probably recovering, while 10, or 21*27 per cent., have completely recovered and are 
known to have been well for from several months to upwards of a year after leaving 
hospital. It should be mentioned that three of the patients who recovered had 
also been treated with injections of staphylococcus vaccine, which appeared to have 
some good effect. 

These figures are in close accordance with those of Dr. Price, and contrast 
most favourably with nearly invariably fatal results admitted by those who 
still deny their patients the benefit of persistent cinchonization, although 
without any efficient remedy of their own, and I venture to think that, in view 
of the above data, my line of treatment should never be neglected until we 
have a better one to replace it, as I hope and expect will be the case in time. Bone 
marrow tabloids, to repair the blood deterioration, are also of considerable value, 
while atoxyl, which is now being advocated in the allied protozoal disease, sleeping 
sickness, is worthy of trial, for my friend. Dr. J. W. D. Megaw, I.M.S., has injected it in 
two cases with at least temporary good effects. Colonel C. P. Lukis, I.M.S., Principal 
of the Medical College, Calcutta, has also tried cinnamate of soda to increase the 
leucocytes, but without accomplishing the desired result or doing any good ; and 
X rays over the spleen have been tried by the same observer, but without effecting 



KALA-AZAR— INFECTIOUSNESS 81 

any cures. In view of the chronicity of the disease, and the occasional remarkable 
spontaneous recoveries from an apparently hopeless state, much caution is required 
in making deductions regarding any line of treatment, but the extraordinary cures 
which do occur, encourage the hope that a better treatment, even than the quinine 
one, wiU be found to rescue these unfortunates from the lingering death which stiU 
awaits the great majority. 

THE LIFE HISTORY OF THE PARASITE, MODE OF INFECTION, AND 

PROPHYLAXIS 

I have now dealt with kala-azar both collectively as an epidemic and 
individually as a disease, but have stiU to discuss the evidence I obtained in Assam 
regarding its infectiousness before describing the life-history of the parasite which 
produces it. 

INFECTIOUSNESS OF KALA-AZAR.— When I went to Assam in 1896 
there was much difference of opinion as to whether kala-azar was infectious 
or not, the majority holding that as it was certainly malarial it therefore 
could not be infectious, whUe a few contended that it was certainly a com- 
municable disease, and therefore it could not be simply malarial in nature, 
but no one had found time to inquire into the exact way in which it spread. 
In order to settle this important point I travelled over 150 mUes on foot from village 
to village, and obtained the histories of the introduction of the disease into them 
from the head men, who return all the deaths, and who were always able to give 
me detailed information on the subject. Very similar stories were constantly related 
to the effect that some one suffering from the disease had come to live in the village, 
usually with relatives, and then others, who resided in the same house, were shortly 
afterwards attacked, and on the survivors of the first infected household being taken 
into other families they in turn suffered, while after a year or two the disease became 
widespread, and frequently from one to two-thirds of the people eventually died 
of it before it began to decrease. Wherever the infection had spread a similar kind 
of history was obtained, while whenever a village had escaped, although surrounded 
by infected ones, it was found that for some reason or other they had no communica- 
tion with each other, even if only a few hundred yards apart. Thus a small village of 
Brahmins, who had no intercourse with the infected low caste people around them, 
escaped, although aU the surrounding villages had been attacked for several years. 
Again, one part of a village, which was separated from the rest by only a few small 
rice-fields, remained free for years owing to their head man not allowing them to 
have any intercourse even with their relations in the infected portion. On the 
other hand, on visiting a village which was reported to be infected, although all 
those around it were free, I found that it belonged to people who had recently moved 
there from a badly-infected part of the district, bringing the disease with them. The 
extreme steps which the people themselves sometimes took to prevent the spread 
of the disease is also strong evidence of its infectiousness in their eyes. For example, 
a. girl, who had married a man in a healthy village, but soon after was found to be 

6 



82 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

suffering from kala-azar, was turned out, while her own father, in a neighbouring 
uninfected village, was prevented from taking herinto his house, so that she was living 
in a hut erected in the open rice-fields at the time of my visit. The same plan of 
isolating cases of the disease was adopted by the Garos, who are reported to have 
gone so far as to render the patients comatose with drink and then burning them in 
their huts. All the evidence goes to show that the infection is, as a rule, obtained 
by sleeping in a house with infected persons for a longer or shorter time, in some cases 
only for a day or two. Moreover, the plan of moving the village to a new site 
appeared to have a distinctly good effect in lessening the disease when occasionally 
resorted to by the people themselves, so that I thought the infection might possibly 
pass through the soil. It was on the knowledge of the infection being largely a 
house one that I based the prophylactic measures which proved so successful long 
before the parasite of kala-azar was discovered, but now that we possess much more 
definite information regarding the true pathology of the disease it will be best to 
describe the life-history of the protozoal organism of kala-azar before taking up the 
important practical question of prophylaxis, as the latter will thus be rendered more 
definite. 

DISCOVERY OF THE PARASITE OF KALA-AZAR.— The parasite of kala- 
azar was independently found by more than one observer, but to W. B. Leishman, 
R.A.M.C, belongs the credit of having had the courage to first describe it, two 
and a half years after he had seen it, as probably a degenerate stage of a human 
trypanosome, not very long after that organism had been found in a fever in 
Africa by the late Dr. Dutton, while Rose Bradford and Plimmer had previously 
described a form of the Trypanosoma brucei similar to the bodies Leishman 
found. As soon as Leishman's paper reached India, C. Donovan, I.M.S., recorded 
that he had independently observed the same bodies in the spleens of patients 
dying of prolonged fever in Madras one month before Leishman's note was pub- 
lished, and as he was also able to find them in fresh splenic blood obtained by 
puncture of the organ during life, he was able to disprove Leishman's suggestion that 
they were degenerate trypanosomes, for the flagellate form of the organism has 
never been found in the human system. Laveran and Mesnil, after examining 
specimens sent by Donovan, concluded that the organism was a piroplasma, while 
J. H. Wright of Boston, at the end of 1903, described similar bodies to those of 
Leishman and Donovan in a form of chronic ulceration met with in the Punjab 
known as Delhi boil, in which D. D. Cunningham had, as early as 1885, described 
the aggregations of these peculiar bodies. As kala-azar is unknown in the Punjab 
there is good reason to believe that the parasite of Delhi boil is quite a distinct 
species from that of the Assam fever. 

In 1896 I had stained smears of kala-azar spleens with aniline dyes without 
being able to distinguish these bodies, which are not weU shown by them, while 
Romanowsky's stain and its numerous modifications had not then come into common 
use, and I mainly used fresh unstained blood films, as then advised by Sir Patrick 
Manson and others, in searching for malarial or other protozoal parasites. The 



KALA-AZAR— THE PARASITE 8» 

papers just referred to appeared while, I was on leave in England, and I quickly 
realized, as was also suggested by Donovan, Ross, and others, that if many of the 
cases previously known as " malarial cachexia " were really caused by the new 
parasites, then kala-azar of Assam must be also produced by it, for I had shown in 
my report that the Assam outbreak was but an epidemic form of the so-called " mal- 
arial cachexia." On returning to India at the end of 1903 I obtained some slides 
of splenic blood of kala-azar patients from my friend. Dr. Dodds Price, and readily 
found the new parasites in them, as well as in several cases of chronic spleen fever 
in the Dinajpur district, which were evidently the sporadic form of the same disease. 
At about the same time Dr. Bentley independently found the same parasites in 
kala-azar cases, and published his observations shortly before my own appeared 
in print. Other cases in Dinajpur with large spleens following chronic fever showed 
only malarial parasites in their spleen blood ; and I found it impossible at a single 
examination to differentiate between the two forms clinically, although subse- 
quently able to do so by the blood changes already described. It is not, there- 
fore, surprising that kala-azar has been so long confounded with chronic forms of 
malarial fever ; and the discovery of the new parasite has done more towards 
clearing up the fevers of Bengal and some other parts of India than anything else 
since Laveran's description of the parasites of malaria. Over a year later, in 1905, 
S.P. James, I.M.S., also recorded that he had found the Leishman-Donovan parasites 
in 67 out of 68 cases of kala-azar, and gave some valuable clinical information regard- 
ing the differentiation of tjiis disease from chronic malaria. The discovery of the new 
parasite has now furnished the key to the problem which a century of clinical 
observation has been unable to unlock. 

DISTRIBUTION OF THE PARASITE IN THE HUMAN BODY.— It soon 
became apparent from the observations of Manson, Low, Ross, and especially of 
S. R. Christophers, I.M.S. (who had been placed in special duty by the Government 
of India to work at the subject in Madras), that the organism may be found in prac- 
tically every organ of the body in variable numbers, although it is most numerous in 
the spleen, bone marrow, and liver. They were also occasionally observed in the 
mesenteric glands, and more rarely in ulcers in the intestines, and both Manson 
and Christophers suggested that they might escape in the faeces, and so reach water, 
through which reinfection of others might take place. When a little later I dis- 
covered the flagellated form of the parasite, Dr. Bentley announced that he found 
trypanosomes more commonly in fish from near kala-azar-infected lines than else- 
where, and suggested that they might be a stage of the human parasite. I made 
some observations in Nowgong to test this hjrpothesis the same year, but was 
unable to confirm the correctness of this statement as far as that district was 
concerned. 

Now Christophers's microscopical studies showed that the parasites multiplied 
mainly in the large endothelial or macrophagic cells of the spleen and bone marrow 
especially, until the invaded ceUs bulge into the lumen of the vessels. During the 
operation of spleen puncture those containing the largest parasites rupture most 



84 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

readily, and the organisms thus obtained are nearly all the larger capsulated ones 
shown in figures 1 to 10 of line 8 of the coloured plate in contrast with the 
many minute ones seen in a spleen smear made post mortem as in figure 12 of line 
8 of the coloured plate. A similar rupture of the distended endothelial cells must 
also frequently take place naturally in the body, and so allow of the entrance of the 
parasite into the circulating blood and its distribution to all parts of the body, 
a hypothesis which also explains the large number of the organisms found in 
just those organs where malarial parasites also accumulate — namely, the spleen, 
bone marrow, and liver, while I have also several times found them in the 
brain. 

This leads me on to the consideration of the frequency of the parasite in the 
peripheral blood, for it was the supposed great rarity of such incidence which gave 
rise to the theory of its escape from the large bowel as a source of infection, which 
was so generally held before my discovery of the flagellated stage of the parasite. 
Yet Donovan, Christophers, and James have aU met with the parasites within the 
leucocytes, chiefly in the polynuclears, although no one has confirmed the state- 
ments of Donovan, Laveran, and Mesml, that they may be seen within the red cor- 
puscles, other workers considering that they are only rarely seen lying on the surfaces 
of the red discs. Recently Donovan has reported that he has found the parasites 
in the peripheral blood of 75 per cent, of his cases, while W. S. Patton, I.M.S., 
now on special duty in Madras, informs me that he detected them in a still larger 
proportion of specially selected advanced cases. Donovan stated that they are 
most easily found during high fever, but I have been unable to confirm this, while 
it is also contrary to Patton's experience, who finds they are commonest in the later 
stages of the disease, so that it is doubtful if a microscopical examination of the 
finger blood for the parasites will prove of much diagnostic value in the difficult 
early stages of the disease. In a few cases I tried without success the plan of quickly 
centrifuging for one minute 2 or 3 c.cm. of venous blood in order to separate the 
majority of the red corpuscles, and then making shdes of the blood plates and 
leucocytes after a second longer centrifugation. I think it is worthy of further trial, 
as it may prove preferable to the somewhat dangerous spleen puncture as a 
diagnostic method. However this may be, it is now quite clear that the parasites 
are at least present in the circulating blood in large numbers in most advanced cases, 
in quite sufficient numbers to readily allow of their entering the stomach of any 
blood-sucking insect which might form a suitable host for their further multipHcation 
and development. 

The question as to whether these parasites are to be found in the human body 
after death from any other disease besides kala-azar is an important one. In order 
to decide the point microscopical examinations of the spleen for Leishman-Donovan 
bodies have been made systematically at the Calcutta Medical College post mortems, 
mostly by my assistant Dr. G. C. Chatter jee, but except in cases of terminal 
complications, such as pneumonia, of clinically unrecognized kala-azar they were 
never found. The parasite is, therefore, absent from the body in diseases other 
than kala-azar. 



" 12 



n 



)'^ 






■/ -. 



>% ^ 

%* 




Ci^lf i,JU 



Plate 7. — Stages in the cultural development of the extra-corporeal stages of the parasite of Kala-azar. 

Plate i. Undeveloped parasites from spleen puncture film. 

„ II. Early stages of development from two-days' culture in acidified blood. 1 and 2, body 
and macronucleus enlarged ; 3 and 4, first appearance of eosin body ; 5 and 6, elon- 
gation and subdivision ; 7 and 8, first appearance of tlie flagellum. 

., III. Stages of division of the early flagellated fonus. 

„ rv. Double, long, swimming fonus. 

„ V. Fully developed long, free, active single forms. 

„ VI. Degenerate forms. 

„ VII. Undeveloped forms in a white corpuscle. 

„ VIII. Early stages of development in a degenerating white corpuscle, 

„ IX. Stage in the formation of a rosette. 

„ X. Separated flagella with micronuclei attached. 

„ XI. Bxwette breaking up Into free fonns. 

„. XII. Small complete rosette. 



[To face page 84. 



KALA^AZAR— CULTIVATION OF THE PARASITE 85 

THE CULTIVATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE FLAGELLATED STAGE 
OF THE PARASITE. — Up to July, 1904, the only stage of the parasite known was 
the small oval body, about the size of a blood plate, with a rounded macronucleus 
and a smaller rod-shaped micronucleus or centrosome, such as are shown in the 
first line of plate 7. These multiplied by division, so that in splenic smears a 
number of very small bodies may be seen in a single cell with no very definite capsule 
to them, but recognizable by the double nucleus ; or a number of them might be 
found in a hazy material, first taken for a zoogloea mass, but now known to be but 
the protoplasm of the cell in which they were growing. It is not surprising, then, 
that there was much speculation as to the precise class of protozoa to which this 
organism belonged, suggestions varying from that cf degenerated trypanosomes 
according to Leishman, the piroplasma of Donovan and Laveran, spores of a 
microsporidian of Christophers, and an entirely new genus which Ross put for- 
ward and proposed to call Leishmania-donovani, in honour of the two observers 
who first described the parasite. 

As it was clear that we could not expect to gain much further knowledge of the 
exact nature of the parasite until we learnt something of the extra corporeal stages, 
and the discovery of such further portions of its life history was alone likely to throw 
valuable hght on the mode of infection of the disease it produces. I set to work 
on these fines as soon as possible after my return to India, and was fortunate enough to 
obtain important results. The method employed was to obtain human blood 
containing the organism by means of splenic puncture, and to add it to about 1 
com. of sterile salt solution containing 5 to 10 per cent, citrate of soda to prevent the 
blood clotting, and to examine it frequently to see what became of the parasites. My 
first attempts were made at blood heat, with the result that they all died out in a 
day or two, as other workers had also found. Being struck with the resemblance 
of the macro- and micro-nucleus of the parasite to those of trypanosomes, just as 
Leishman had been, and remembering that Laveran and Mesnil had succeeded in 
keeping the latter organism alive for a much longer time at a low temperature than 
at blood heat, I next tried incubating the citrated blood at about 27° C, and found 
that in this way they lived for several days, and what is more, they appeared to 
multiply considerably, many dividing forms being present, but as yet without any 
other material alteration. On next reducing the temperature to about 22° C. 
(an ice incubator having to be used during most of the year in Calcutta for this pur- 
pose), I was soon regarded by finding that not only did the parasites unquestionably 
multiply rapidly, but they also increased in size and developed a blue staining proto- 
plasm, and after a time the further development of flagellated forms took place, 
which were actively motile. 

The different stages of this remarkable development are shown in the plate 
on the opposite page, all the forms in which have been accurately drawn to 
the same scale with a camera lucida, thus illustrating the extraordinary increase in 
the size of the parasite as well as in its numbers. Whereas the human stage of the 
parasite appears to be no larger than a blood plate, and requires careful search with 
an oil immersion lens for its detection, yet the large rosettes shown in the lower 



86 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

part of the diagram can readily be seen as a stained mass, or in unstained specimens 
as a lighter circular area, among the red corpuscles with a ^ in. lens. The form in 
which the parasite is found in the human body is shown in the first line of the 
plate. The earliest stages of the development, which are shown in the second line, 
consist in an enlargement of the macronucleus, without any corresponding change 
in the micronucleus, which remains a small rod throughout the whole process. 
At the same time the protoplasm, which is clear in the spleen form of the parasite, 
now becomes much increased in quantity, and takes on a blue coloration with 
Romanowsky's stain, Leishman's modification of which was used throughout this 
inquiry. The next change is a curious one — the appearance in the protoplasm 
of a rounded mass which takes on the red element of the stain, and so may 
well be termed the eosin body ; the micronucleus is always found to be closely 
attached to it while the flagellum arises from it. This form is seen in Nos. 3 to 
6 of Line II, while the last two forms of that line show the flagellum arising from it, 
and apparently separated from the micronucleus by a narrow unstained space, 
although a study of degenerating flagellate forms proves that the flagellum is really 
organically connected with the micronucleus, for it comes away from the body 
with it, as shown in X. This flagellated stage rarely appears before the third 
day in successful cultures, and when the development is carried on under the most 
favourable conditions (to be described presently), they are found in enormous 
numbers, and showing all the stages of subdivision, which are illustrated in the third 
line of the diagram. In this process of multiplication of the flagellated forms the 
first change is the division of the micronucleus and flagellum into two, next the 
macronucleus also divides, and then a line appears down the centre of the body 
splitting it into two, the process being quickly commenced again by both the new 
forms. In this manner the rapidly dividing forms push each other round, as 
shown in IX, until they form a complete rosette of XII, the flageUa all pointing 
in towards the centre, and in this stage such groups can readily be seen in fresh 
specimens by low powers with the flagella actively waving in the middle of the 
mass. Lastly, the individual forms, which up to now are mostly only two or three 
times as long as they are broad, gradually elongate out and begin to break away 
as shown in XI, to form single exceedingly active organisms, which when 
stained have the appearance shown in Line V, the eosin-staining micronucleus and 
flagellum being both situated at the anterior end of the organism, while the macro- 
nucleus still remains about the centre. The forms in Line VI are the retrogressive 
stages of degeneration resulting from contamination of the culture with staphylo- 
cocci. Forms VII and VIII show early development within a polynuclear leucocyte. 
For a long time I was in doubt whether this flagellated form was but a stage 
in the development of a trjrpanosome, similar to some of the culture forms of bird 
trypanosomes obtained by Novy and McNeal on blood-agar medium — a method 
of culture with which I have failed to obtain success in any stage of the kala-azar 
parasites. Now that extremely numerous, very active, and apparently fuUy 
developed flagellate forms have been obtained, without any tendency for the micro- 
nucleus to even approach the macronucleus and without a trace of any sign of 



KALA-AZAR— NATURE OF THE PARASITE 87 

an undulating membrane, I have come to the conclusion that the parasite is not a 
partially developed trypanosome, but another kind of flagellated organism. 

NATURE OF THE PARASITE.— The discovery of the flagellated stage of 
the parasite affords much help in classifying it, for now that the life-history of the 
Piroplasma canis has been worked out by Koch, Nuttall and S. R. Christophers, and 
it is known that it has no flagellated stage, the suggestion of Laveran and Mesnil 
that the kala-azar parasite belongs to that genus may be put out of court. It also 
appears from what has just been said that it is not a tr3rpanosome, and it appeared 
to me to be more closely aUied to the herpetomonas than to any other known flagellate 
protozoon. I sent, repeatedly, specimens to English zoologists and failed to elicit any 
opinion on the point ; I therefore forwarded some to the late Professor Schaudinn, un- 
fortunately too late to obtain an answer before his lamented death ; but I received 
an early reply from Dr. Hartmann, of the Hamburg School of Tropical Medicine, 
which was to the effect that the organism differs from all hitherto known flagellates, 
so may most conveniently be called the Leishmania donovani, as suggested by 
Professor Ross, while as he informed me that this was also the opinion of Dr. 
Schaudinn, it may safely be adopted. Professor Minchin has also recently 
expressed a similar opinion. 

Such a startling discovery as that just related necessarily needed confirmation 
before being generaUy accepted, but this was soon supphed by Assistant Surgeon 
G. C. Chatterjee, working in my own laboratory, and some three months later 
independently by S. R. Christophers in Madras (the publication of whose observa- 
tions was much delayed by the Government regulations applying to him), while 
several months later stiU J. Statham, R.A.M.C, and W. B. Leishman also confirmed 
my work in England. 

CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FLAGELLATE 
STAGE. — In my earher cultures the amount of development obtained was extremely 
variable, for although in nearly all of them the earlier stages were seen, yet only 
about in one in six was the flageUate stage reached, and then usually it was very 
scantily present as compared with the enormous numbers of slightly developed 
bodies. This variability and incompleteness of the development pointed to the 
experimental conditions being stfll far from the most favourable ones for the extra- 
corporeal stage of the parasite, and led me to carry out a long series of observations 
extending over a year, in order to try to ascertain the best conditions for its 
development ; which might be expected to furnish a clue to those under which 
the flageUate forms exist in Nature, and thus to the probable mode of infection of 
the disease they cause. Over one hundred cultures were made before success was 
obtained, in the course of which a number of negative conclusions were arrived at, 
which are not without some practical bearing on the problem. 

TEMPERATURE LIMITATIONS.— It was early found that a temperature far 
below that of the human body is essential to success, from 20° to 22° C. being 
the best, while I have never got very marked development above 25° C. or 



88 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

77° F., exposures to higher temperatures than this for but a few minutes causing 
rapid death and degeneration of all the developing forms — a point of the greatest 
importance in connexion with the season of the year when the infection of the 
disease takes place, as pointed out on page 51. The minimum temperature below 
which the development will not take place has not yet been absolutely settled, 
owing to the short cold season in Calcutta, but as far as my observations go they 
point to from 15° to 17° C, or about 60° F., as the lower favourable point, which 
is in accordance with the seasonal and climatic distribution already given. 

STERILITY. — ^Another point of crucial importance is the sterility of the 
culture tubes, especially as regards micrococci, contamination with bacteria during 
the frequent examinations of the tubes having been always followed by rapid death 
and degeneration of these protozoal parasites. Staphylococci exerted the greatest 
effect in this direction, and this affords a possible explanation of the occasional favour- 
able effect of septic conditions following on the fever of kala-azar already referred 
to. This necessity for sterility explains why the parasites have never been 
found in the faeces in those occasional cases in which they are present in the 
bases of ulcers in the intestines, while it becomes extremely improbable that this mode 
of escape from the body is the ordinary source of infection. As I was also unable 
to obtain any development whatever in even sterile water, this medium, which is 
probably never sterile in Nature when at a temperature suitable to the development 
of the parasite, may also be put out of court as the common vehicle of infection, 
especially as all clinical experience is also against it. Different strengths of salt 
solution were tried, and only showed that somewhere about that of the blood 
or slightly higher degrees were most favourable to the process. 

ANAEROBIC CONDITIONS. — An atmosphere of hydrogen or nitrogen gas 
prevented the development without killing the organism, which might develop 
well on the cultures being again placed under ordinary atmospherical conditions, 
once more pointing to the intestinal canal as unfavourable for the process. On the 
other hand, an atmosphere of oxygen gas did not appear to affect the development. 

ACID MEDIUM. — All the negative results just mentioned, taken together 
with a number of facts regarding the conditions influencing the spread of the disease 
ascertained during its study in Assam, led me to the conclusion that the mode of 
the infection must be through some biting insect. As the mosquito seemed to be 
an unlikely agency on account of the strictness with which the infection appeared 
to be limited to houses containing cases of the disease, I strongly suspected that 
pest of Indian life, the homely bedbug, to be the culprit. During some earUer 
unpubHshed examinations of the contents of the stomachs of bugs from the beds of 
plague patients for bacteria, I had been struck by the frequency with which the 
contents were absolutely sterile — a somewhat unexpected result. I therefore 
tested the reaction of the fluid in the stomachs of these insects after sucking human 
blood, and found it to be distinctly acid, the secretions of the organ being evidently 
sufficient to neutralize the natural alkalinity of the imbibed blood. This fact led 



KALA-AZAR— FEEDING EXPERIMENTS 89 

me to try the addition of a drop or two of weak sterile citric acid solution to the 
infected citrated human spleen blood, so as to neutralize or faintly acidify the medium, 
and at last my patience was rewarded by obtaining a far more abundant and uni- 
formly complete development of active flagellated forms than I had ever seen before 
in scores of cultures, the rosette-like groups being especially abundant and active. 
What was most striking and important was the fact that, instead of the vast majority of 
the organisms showing Httle or no development (for but very few reached the flagellate 
stage in the previous alkaline blood cultures), in the acidified medium all the organ- 
isms appeared to develop uniformly so that when about the third day the flagella 
began to be seen, it was found that the vast majority of the organisms, which were 
multiplying with extreme rapidity, had already reached this advanced degree, and 
a day or two later few if any remained in the original small undeveloped stage. 
It was clear, then, that this acidified sterile fluid blood medium kept at a tempera- 
ture of about 20° to 22° C. was extremely favourable to the growth of the extra- 
corporeal stage of the organism, and might with a very great degree of probability 
be relied on to furnish the long-wanted key to the most likely intermediate host of 
the parasite. All the developmental forms in the diagram have been drawn from 
these acid cultures 

FEEDING EXPERIMENTS. — The success of the acidified blood as a culture 
medium having now greatly strengthened my suspicion that the bedbug is the carrier 
of the infection of kala-azar, I next tried a variety of methods to induce these insects 
to swallow infected human blood placed in sterile capsules of different kinds, but 
without success, as they refused to be tempted to suck the blood. In order to 
ascertain if the stomachs of these particular insects were likely to prove suitable for 
the development the plan was next adopted of mixing human spleen blood containing 
the organisms with about an equal quantity of the fluid contained in the stomachs 
of these insects after feeding on human blood, in sterile capillary tubes, and I thus 
also succeeded in obtaining the development of fuUy flagellated forms at the suitable 
temperature, so that it only remained to find similar forms in these insects after 
feeding on kala-azar subjects to complete the proof that they may actually be the 
carriers of the infection, as far as it is possible to do so, when we remember that no 
animal is known to be susceptible, for it could not be justifiable to try to infect 
human subjects with such a deadly disease, and hitherto aU attempts to inoculate the 
ordinary laboratory animals or even monkeys have failed. As far as I know the 
anthropoid apes have not been experimented upon owing to the difficulty and ex- 
pense of obtaining them, one orang-outang which I got for the purpose died too 
soon to enable this point to be settled. 

As sufficiently numerous feeding experiments with such insects in order to be of 
any value, require much time, I spent in Assam all the leave I could obtain when 
the temperature conditions were favourable for this purpose ; but, although I 
examined blood from the stomachs of over 200 bugs fed on kala-azar patients 
with low powers in a fresh condition for active flagellate forms, I had met with no 
success when I had to stop on account of my eyes, and I have only been able to find 



90 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

time since to examine a few of the stained slides then made. This failure was 
disappointing, but the time available for the work was so short that I did not regard 
the negative result as in any way invalidating my theory. I was therefore much 
pleased to learn several months later that W. S. Patton, I.M.S., had been placed on 
special duty to work on similar lines, and still more when it was announced in the 
Indian Medical Gazette that he had obtained some development of the kala-azar 
parasites in the stomachs of bedbugs, but not in those of mosquitoes, ticks (with 
which S. R. Christophers had previously obtained negative results) or lice. While 
on a visit to Madras at Christmas, 1906, Dr. Patton kindly showed me his speci- 
mens, which clearly contained the early stages of the development with the appear- 
ance of the eosin body, and in one of his drawings a short flagellum was also apparent. 
They struck me as being very similar to the scanty development I obtained before 
using acidified media, and gave me the impression that the conditions were not those 
most favourable to the process ; on inquiry I found that attention had not been 
paid to obtaining the most favourable temperature for the development, so I 
urged him to do as many feeding experiments as possible during the then more 
favourable cold season, when the optimum temperature could be obtained. The 
result has fully substantiated my opinion, for within three weeks Patton wrote to 
me : " I have got the complete cycle of the parasite up to completely developed 
flagellates " ; he added, " There is no shadow of doubt that the bedbug transmits 
the disease." 

Much doubtless remains to be done in this direction in order to ascertain exactly 
in what form the parasite is again inoculated into the human subject, for the long 
time during which the infection clings to houses points to the possibihty of it being 
transmitted through the progeny of the first affected bugs, just as occurs in the 
case of the piroplasma of cattle and dogs ; so the ovaries and salivary glands should 
be carefully examined in fed insects for further stages of the parasite. Never- 
theless, our knowledge of the life-history of the kala-azar organism is now sufficiently 
known to enable the facts to be made practical use of in the prophylaxis of the 
disease, which is the last portion of the subject remaining to be considered. 



THE PROPHYLAXIS OF KALA-AZAR.— I have ah-eady mentioned the 
partial success of moving infected villages to new sites but a short distance away, 
which, taken with the strong evidence I collected in 1897 as to the infection being a 
house one, appeared to me to ajff ord the most promising basis for preventive measures. 
Finding also that over a year before I went to Assam Dr. Dodds Price, suspecting 
the disease to be infectious, had placed 150 out of 200 freshly-imported coolies in 
newly-built lines of houses, while the remaining 50 had to be accommodated in 
infected lines for want of room, I got him to work out the results of this measure. 
It was thus ascertained that although none of the 150 in the new lines had suffered 
from kala-azar during two years they had been on this badly-infected tea garden, 
yet no less than 8, or 16 per cent., of those placed in the old lines were aheady dead 
of the disease, and that, too, in spite of the fact that the new lines were but 300 yards 



I 
I 



KALA-AZAR— PROPHYLAXIS 91 

from the old ones, a distance insufficient to prevent the spread of malaria through 
the agency of mosquitoes. 

This very important result obtained by Dr. Price encouraged me to suggest 
the further step of moving all the healthy people out of infected houses to new ones on 
a fresh site, no person, however, being taken from an infected hut in consequence of 
the impossibility at that time of diflFerentiating the early stages of kala-azar from 
ordinary malarial fever. This plan was carried out by Dr. Price in the case of a 
coolie line which was so badly infected that no less than 144 out of 240 souls were 
either actually suffering from kala-azar or had cases in their households, leaving 
only 96 who could be moved to the new site, 5 of whom were very shortly after- 
wards sent back on account of their developing fever. A large number of fresh 
coolies were also drafted into these new lines, so that eighteen months later it con- 
tained 416 souls, among whom not a single case of kala-azar had occurred : a state- 
ment which happily remains true at the present time, ten years after they were 
occupied. 

In marked contrast with this result is the fact that of 60 coolies, who refused 
to move out of the infected lines, no less than 20, or one-third, were attacked within 
the eighteen months, and they have since nearly all been carried off by the 
disease, although their houses were only 400 yards from the new ones, which remained 
healthy. This experiment was so conclusive that it has since been often repeated 
with uniformly good results, so that the disease is no longer as dreaded as it used to 
be by tea planters in the Nowgong district. In slightly-infected lines only the affected 
households were segregated and their houses burnt, this measure being also of 
value, although less effective than the former one. It is also of great interest to note 
that the new lines referred to were only situated just 400 yards from the old ones, 
in which the infection continued for years. Nevertheless the stringent precautions 
which were taken to prevent any infected persons visiting the new lines were suffi- 
cient for its permanent complete protection, which again points to some less active 
agent than the mosquito as the carrier of the infection. 

In view of the importance of this preventative measure it will be well to quote 
from Dr. Price in support of my statements. Thus in 1902 in a note published in 
the Indian Medical Gazette he wrote : "In conclusion I would like to add that 
while in quinine we have a valuable drug in the treatment of kala-azar, segregation 
of the sick is of the utmost importance, and where coolie lines are badly infected 
they must be abandoned at all costs. In this district, where these tactics have been 
adopted, the results have been gratifying in the extreme, but the greatest care has 
been taken to allow none but healthy coolies and their families into the new lines." 
Again, in 1904, he wrote to me as follows : " I wonder if you are puzzled that I 
should always be able to get cases when I have so plainly stated that the disease 
can be stamped out of tea estates if proper precautions are taken. If you are, the 
answer goes still further to prove the correctness of my opinion. Kala-azar is 
only existent on gardens where in addition to building new lines the precaution 
of destroying the old houses and sites, and taking care to allow none but non-infected 
coolies into the new lines, has not been properly carried out. Here at Amluckie 



92 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

(a different tea estate to the one referred, to above), kala-azar got very bad. New- 
lines were built and remained healthy, but the older time-expired coolies refused 
to turn out of the old lines, and over 60 per cent, of them are now dead of kala-azar. 
At Rangamti and Nonoi we still have cases for the same reason, but at Old Solonah " 
(the lines referred to above as the first to be moved), " where the disease accounted 
for hundreds, we never see a case, and even remittent fever hardly ever occurs. 
Here the most stringent measures were taken, and after a death rate of over 10 per 
cent, up to 20 per cent, for several years we only lost 9 souls last year out of a popu- 
lation of 500, and this year up to date (June 2) we have only had 2 deaths," 
none of these deaths having been from kala-azar. The practical value of such results 
as these requires no emphasis, while their important bearing on the probable mode of 
infection will also become apparent presently. Dr. Dodds Price deserves the greatest 
possible credit for recognizing the infectiousness of the disease and placing his new 
coolies, as far as possible, in newly built lines some time before I went to Assam, and 
also for the thorough and most successful manner in which he carried out the further 
measures I suggested for stamping the diseases out of the already infected lines, 
they were, indeed, but the logical outcome of the success of his earlier plan, and I 
am especially glad to avail myself of this opportunity to bear this testimony to his 
invaluable work in this direction, because I have never been able to persuade him 
to publish his own results, and so obtain some of the credit which is due to him. 

It is not too much to say that it is now certain that this awful scourge can be 
robbed of most of its terrors whenever it is possible fully to carry out segregation 
measures, as on tea estates, while their success has encouraged the application of the 
same principles in dealing with the spread in villages, as far as they are practicable 
in that case. 

MEASURES TO CHECK THE SPREAD OF KALA-AZAR IN THE VILLAGES.— 
It was not possible to carry out such complete measures as the above in the infected 
villages, but the following recommendations of mine proved successful in preventing 
the spread of the disease into the eastern half of the Brahmaputra VaUey, as already 
described. In the first place, a pamphlet in the vernacular was widely distributed, 
explaining, in simple language, the manner in which the infection was spread and 
the precautions necessary to prevent its introduction into unaffected places, and 
by thus putting the people on their guard against the insidious invasion of the 
disease they were often enabled to keep it at bay without having to learn the lesson 
by bitter experience. In the second place, assistance was given by the Government 
to already infected villages to remove to a new site, the infected persons being, as 
far as possible, accommodated in a separate place. 

It may, then, be fairly claimed that much practical good resulted from my 
inquiries of 1896-7, both in the prevention of the further spread of the disease up 
the Assam VaUey and also in its being practically stamped out of the Nowgong tea 
gardens, and it is worthy of note that all this was accomplished long before the 
exact nature of the disease was ascertained by the discovery of the parasite in 1903. 
Moreover, the success of the measures based on the theory that the disease was 



KALA-AZAR— PROPHYLAXIS 93 

essentially a house one is readily accounted for by the bug theory of infection, which 
has now received such strong experimental support. 



THE DESTRUCTION OF BEDBUGS AS A PROPHYLACTIC MEASURE.— 
Just a year ago, several months before Dr. Patton's successful feeding experiments, 
I arranged with Dr. Dodds Price to try the effect of repeated attempts to destroy 
all forms of insect life in the infected houses and those immediately around 
them in a cooUe line in which kala-azar cases continued to arise each cold weather, 
leaving a second slightly-infected one as a control. The houses were fumigated 
with burning sulphur, the beds thoroughly washed with strong boUing carbolic 
lotion, the clothes either boiled in the same solution or destroyed, while the blankets 
were all burnt as being most likely to harbour bugs, new clothes and blankets being 
suppUed. In the line which was thus treated 6 cases had occurred during the cold 
season of 1905-6, all in adjoining houses, and the disease seemed to be slowly ex- 
tending, so that Dr. Price considered this spot to be " a regular hot-bed of kala- 
azar." 

I have just received the results of this experiment up to the beginning of 
February, thus including three-fifths of the cold season, when fresh cases of kala-azar 
mostly appear, and so far no coolie has been attacked in the disinfected lines of 
houses. Satisfactory as this result is, it must be admitted that it is not quite con- 
clusive, because in the control slightly-infected line, which was not disinfected, there 
have also been no fresh cases of the disease, although this is not altogether surprising, 
as since last year all the cases in this control line have either died or recovered, 
leaving no foci in it from which infection was likely to take place, so that, as Dr. 
Price remarks in his letter, new cases would have been much more likely to have 
occurred in the disinfected than in the untreated lines. 

The result of this effort to destroy bedbugs in the houses infected with kala- 
azar is, at any rate, most encouraging, and in view of Dr. Patton having 
now proved that the parasite can develop into the flagellate stage in the stomachs 
of bedbugs fed on kala-azar patients and kept at the right temperature, it may safely 
be laid down that somewhat similar disinfecting operations to those just mentioned 
should be carried out in all houses from which kala-azar patients are received, for 
this measure may be expected to do much towards preventing the disease running 
through the families of poor Europeans in the way I have described, and the terrible 
mortahty in children in particular may be greatly lessened. In this way it is not 
too much to hope that as much may be done to reduce the present terrible loss of 
life due to the sporadic form of kala-azar in Bengal and Madras — at any rate among 
Europeans — as has already been accomplished in limiting the spread of the epidemic 
in Assam, and stamping it out in coolie lines ; and thus the knowledge regarding 
the life-history of the parasite obtained by the investigations of the last four years 
may supplement and extend the scope of the prophylactic measures previously 
put into successful operation to stem the progress of the Assam epidemic of kala- 
azar. 



94 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

KALA-AZAR REFERENCES 

1882. Dr. Clarke. Report of Sanitary Commissioner of Assam. 

1872. Dr. Jackson. Report on the Burdwan fever. 

1890. Giles, G. M. Report of an investigation into the catises of the diseases known in Assam 

as Kala-azar and Beri-beri. 
1892. Giles, G. M. Notes on Anchylostomiasis, being for the most part a resume of a report 

on the diseases known in Assam as Kala-azar and Beri-beri. Ind. Med. Gaz., pp. 

170 and 193. 
1892. Dobson, E. F. H. Notes regarding the prevalence of Dochmius Duodenale. Ind. 

Med. Gaz., p. 354. 
1894. Dobson, E. F. H. The prevalence of Doclimius Duodenale in India. Trans. First 

Indian Medical Congress. 
1897. Rogers, Leonard. Report on Kala-azar. 

1897. Rogers, Leonard. The Lower Bengal (Burdwan) epidemic fever reviewed and com- 

pared with the present Assam epidemic malarial fever (kala-azar). Ind. Med. Gaz., 
p. 401. 

1898. Giles, G. M. The Etiology of Kala-azar. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 1. 

1898. Rogers, Leonard. The Epidemic Malarial Fever of Assam or Kala-azar. A reply to 

criticisms. Ind. Med. Gaz., pp. 210 and 244. 
1898. Brown, E. H. A report on Kala-dukh, a form of fever met with in the north-east 

portion of the district of Purneah. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 324. 

1898. Powell, A. Prevalence of Certain Intestinal Parasites in India, with some remarks on 

kala-azar, p. 441. 

1899. Ross, Ronald. Report on the nature of Kala-azar. 

1899. Rogers, Leonard. The results of segregation of cases and moving from infected sites 
in eradicating the Assam Epidemic Malarial Fever or Kala-azar. Med-Chir. Trans., 
Vol. 82. 

1902. Bentley, C. A. Epidemic Malta Fever in Assam. A short preliminary notice of certain 
recent discoveries relating to the true nature of kala-azar. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 337. 

1902. Price, J. Dodds. Notes on Kala-azar. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 379. 

1902. Rogers, Leonard. Note on the Serum Reactions and the Temperature Curve in chronic 

malaria, including kala-azar. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 377. 

1903. Leishman, W. B. On the Possible Occurrence of Trypanosomiasis in India. Brit. 

Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 1,252, and Vol. II, p. 1,376. 
1903. Donovan, C. On the Possibility of the Occurrence of Trypanosomiasis in India. Brit. 

Med. Jovir., Vol. II, p. 79, and the etiology of one of the heterogenous fevers of India, 

ibid., p. 1,401. 
1903. Ross, R. Note on the Bodies Recentlj^ Described by Leishman and Donovan. Brit. 

Med. Jour., Vol. II, pp. 1,261 and 1,401. 
1903. Wright, J. H. Protozoa in a case of Tropical Ulcer (Delhi boil). The Jour, of Med. 

Research, Vol. X, No. 3, p. 472. 

1903. Laveran, A. and Mesnil, F. Sur un protozaire noveau (Piroplasma Donovani) parasite 

d'une fievre de I'lnde. Compt. Rend. Acad, des Sci., t. 137, p. 95, and t. 138 (1904), 
p. 187. 

1904. Bentley, A. A short note on the Parasite of Kala-azar. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 81, and 

Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 160. 
1904. Rogers, Leonard. Leishman-Dono van Bodies in "Malarial Cachexia" and Kala-azar. 

Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 158, and Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 1,249. 
1904. Christophers, S. R. On a Parasite found in Persons Sviffering from Enlargement of the 

Spleen in India. Sci. Mem. of India, Nos. 8 and 11. (New series.) 
1904. Manson, P. and Low, G. C. The Leishman-Donovan Body and Tropical Splenomegaly. 

Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, pp. 183 and 1,251, and Vol. II, p. 11. 



KALA-AZAR 95 

1904. Ross, R. The Leishman-Donovan Body*foiind at Omdurman. Brit. Med. Jour., 

Vol. I, p. 1,049. 
1904. Donovan, C. Piroplasmosis. A history of the Discovery of the Donovan Bodies in 

Madras. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 321. 
1904. Leishm^n, W. B. Note on the Nature of the Parasites fotind in Tropical Splenomegaly. 

Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 303. 
1904. Neave, E. Leshmania donovani in the Soudan. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 1,252. 
1904. Rogers, Leonard. Preliminary note on the Development of Trypanosoma in cultures 

of the Cunningham-Leishman-Donovan Bodies of Cachexial Fever and Kala-azar. 

Lancet, Vol. II (July 23). 
1904. Discussion by Leishman, Rogers, Donovan, Christophers and others at the Brit. Med. 

Association Meeting. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, p. 648. 
1904. Rogers, Leonard. On the Development of Flagellated Organisms (trypanosomes) from 

the spleen protozoic parasites of cachexial fevers and kala-azar. Quart. Jour. Micro. 

Sci., Vol. 48, Part III (Nov.). 

1904. Chatterjee, G. C. Development of the Flagellated Stage of Leishman-Donovan Bodies. 

Lancet, Vol. II. 

1905. Christophers, S. R. On a Parasite found in Persons suffering from Enlargement of 

the Spleen in India. Third report. (Confirmation of flagellate stage.) 
1905. Leishman, W. B. and Statham, A.J.C.E. The Development of the Leishman Body in 

cultivation. Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, Vol. IV (March). 
1905. Childe, L. F. The first case of Leishman-Donovan Disease in a European in Bombay. 

Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 447. 
1905. James, S. P. On kala-azar, malaria and malarial cachexia. Sci. Mem. India, No. 19. 

1905. Aidie, Dr. Leishman Body found in China. (Hankow) Jotir. Trop. Med., p. 220. 

1906. Musgrave, W. E., Wherry, W. B. and Wooley, P. G. Tropical Splenomegaly. Bui. 

Johns Hopkins Hosp., Vol. XVIII, No. 178, p. 28. 
1906. Rogers, Leonard. Further work on the Development of the Herpetomonas of Kala- 
azar and cachexial fever from Leishman-Donovan bodies. Proc. Royal Society B., 
Vol. 77, p. 284. 

1906. Rogers, Leonard. The Diagnostic and Prognostic Value of the Leucopoenia of 

Cachexial Fever and Kala-azar. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol, I (April). 

1907. Rogers, Leonard. Milroy Lectures on Kala-azar (abstracts), Brit. Med. Jour, and 

Lancet, Vol. I. 
1907. Patton, W. S. Preliminary Report on the Development of the Leishman-Donovan 
Body in the bedbug. Sci. Mem., India, No. 27 (new series). 



II. TRYPANOSOMIASIS AND SLEEPING SICKNESS 

HISTORY AND DISTRIBUTION. — Although sleeping sickness has been known 
for over a century, it is only within the last few years that a chronic form of fever 
in West Africa was found to be caused by a human trjrpanosome in the blood, 
which is now known to be identical with that discovered soon after in the cerebro- 
spinal fluid in sleeping sickness, thus proved to be but a late complication or exten- 
sion of trjrpanosomiasis. 

The earhest account of sleeping sickness is that of Dr. Winterbottom in 1803, 
who studied the disease in negroes at Sierra Leone. He describes the lethargic 
condition, the fatal course within three or four months, and the glandular enlarge- 
ment in the neck, which he states was looked upon by the slave dealers as indicating 
a disposition to the disease, on which account they would not buy slaves showing 
this symptom. Li 1869 Dr. A. P. A. Guerin wrote on the disease as seen in Africans 
from the Congo district only, who had immigrated fairly recently to the West 
Indies, but not among those who had been living there for many years. A. Corre 
further described the disease in 1876 in Senegambia, while occasional cases were 
either brought to England for study or developed the disease there some time, 
as long as several years in certain instances, after having resided in West Africa. 

Up to the end of the nineteenth century sleeping sickness was only known 
to occur in West Africa, from Senegal in the north, down to the Congo Free State 
in the south, and extending inland to the Upper Niger and to the Stanley Falls 
on the Congo. The disease was mainly sporadic in its distribution, but villages 
were said occasionally to be depopulated by its ravages. With the opening up 
of caravan routes across Africa the disease began to spread more widely, and in 
1900 it appeared in an epidemic form on the north shore of the great Victoria Nyanza 
lake in Uganda, and in the following year cases were admitted to the missionary 
hospital at Mengo under Drs. A. B. and J. H. Cook. 

The disease increased so rapidly that at the end of 1901 Dr. A. Hodges esti- 
mated that in the Busoga district alone 20,000 perons had died, and in 1902 the 
Royal Society sent out a Commission to investigate the disease, the work of which 
has been continued by a succession of observers up to a recent date. Eight series 
of reports on the subject have already been issued, on which, together with those 
of the expeditions of Liverpool School of the Tropical Medicine to West Africa, the 
present account of the disease is mainly based. 

C. Christy carefully studied its spread in Uganda, and found that it extended 
both east and west from Busoga, affecting especially the shores and islands of 



TRYPANOSOMIASIS IN WEST AFRICA 97 

the lake, but not extending very far from the water, except as imported cases. 
The area affected did not correspond in any way with the distribution of the filarla 
perstans, for sleeping sickness has extended into Kavirondo, to the east of the 
great lake, where filaria perstans is not found, while it was absent from large areas 
to the north of the lake in which that filaria is very common : Manson's hypothesis 
that the two were causally related was thus disproved. Christy suggests that 
the disease was brought to Uganda by followers of Emin Pasha's Sudanese 
soldiers. 

Attheend of 1904E.D. W. Greig,I.M.S., travelledfrom Uganda down the Nile into 
the Soudan to trace how far the disease had spread in that direction, and the distri- 
bution of tsetse flies, which might possibly carry the infection. He found sleeping 
sickness beginning on the shores of the Victoria Nyanza, and extending in diminish- 
ing severity along both banks of the Victoria Nile as far north as Wadelai, but 
not at Nimuli, while the distribution of the fly known as Glossina palpalis 
coincided with that of the disease, and it was not found in the Soudan. Another 
fly known as Glossina morsitans, however, is found in the Bahr-el-Ghazal 
province of the Soudan, and this may possibly be able to convey the infection 
should the disease reach that part. 

A report of A. D. P. Hodges, published in February, 1907, shows that the 
disease is now widely prevalent on the shores of the Victoria Nyanza, all around 
which the Glossina palpahs is to be found, and also along the neighbouring Nile 
and its tributaries. The fly is seldom seen more than a few hundred yards from 
the water, so that by camping from one quarter to half a mile from river and lake 
banks the danger of infection is enormously reduced or altogether done away with. 

The recent great extensions of the disease are doubtless due to the opening 
up of communications throughout Central Africa. Maps showing the distribution 
of the disease in Africa at different dates by J. L. Todd will be found in Vol. 25 of 
the Transactions of the Epidemiological Society for 1905-6. 



TRYPANOSOMIASIS IN WEST AFRICA 

The occurrence of trypanosomiasis in West Africa was first ascertained by 
Forde finding some peculiar active worm-like parasites in the blood of a chronic 
fever case at Bathurst in May, 1901, which were recognized as trypanosomes 
by the late J. E. Dutton, who had been asked by Forde to examine them. The 
blood of this patient had previously been repeatedly examined by skflled observers 
with negative results, the organism not being constantly present in the disease, and 
often only in very small numbers, so as to be readily overlooked. Nepveu appears 
to have seen the same organism in Algeria in 1888. In 1902 Dutton and Todd 
recorded the results of an expedition to Senegambia to study human trypanoso- 
miasis. As this parasite may be present in the blood with few if any symptoms 
of illness being present, they examined the blood of 1,043 natives, mostly healthy . 
children, who do not suffer quite so much from the disease as adults, and found 

7 



98 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

the trjrpanosome in the blood of 6 of them. The patients presented no constant char- 
acteristic, the symptoms consisting of very mild intermittent fever, with slight loss 
of strength, or there was an entire absence of symptoms, so that it was impossible to 
diagnose the affection clinically. The importance of the discovery consists in 
the fact that the apparently mild disease produced by the blood infection 
with trjrpanosomes is liable at any time to pass on into the exceedingly fatal 
sleeping sickness, brought about by the passage of the organism into the 
cerebro-spinal fluid, although it is not yet quite certain that this comphcation 
necessarily ensues in every case. That such is their usual fate is shown by 
the fact that out of 13 patients in whose blood trypanosomes were found by 
Colonel Bruce and his coadjutors in June, 1903, and who where followed up 
by successive members of the Royal Society's Commission, only 1 was aliva 
in April, 1906, and he was beginning to show signs of sleeping sickness. Ten 
of the others had died of that disease and the remaining 2 of pneumonia. It 
is clear from this that the vast majority of patients suffering from the apparently 
mild trypanosomiasis sooner or later develop the deadly sleeping sickness if left 
to their fate. Fortunately recent experimental work indicates that by prolonged 
treatment the extension of the disease to the cerebral membranes may be greatly 
delayed and perhaps altogether prevented, so that the early diagnosis by the methods 
described below is of the greatest practical importance. 

In 1903-4 Button and Todd further studied trypanosome infections in the 
Congo, and examined the blood of 1,172 persons, many of whom were healthy, 
finding trypanosomes in 57, of which 34 were met with among 157 patients admitted 
to the native hospital. The disease was, therefore, found to be considerably more 
prevalent in the Congo than in Senegambia. They note that, even in advanced 
cases of sleeping sickness, somnolency was rarely seen, in which respects their 
account differs from those of the earher reports from Uganda, but this appears 
to be due to many at3rpical cases being detected by routine blood examinations, 
which might otherwise have been overlooked, for in the later published cases from 
East Africa, sleepiness is also less conspicuous than in the earUer accounts. They 
did not meet with any such epidemic manifestations in the Congo as that unhappily 
prevalent on the shores of the great East African lakes, so that, like kala-azar, 
the disease is sporadic in those parts which have long been affected, but epidemic 
in newly attacked countries, into which it has been carried by the great extension 
of traffic — the first result of the so-called civilization of newly opened up countries. 



CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF TRYPANOSOMIASIS 

Owing to the absence of symptoms in the early stages, and the fact that the 
long duration of the disease makes it exceedingly difficult to follow up patients 
throughout its course, complete clinical descriptions of tr3rpanosomiasis are still 
wanting. The following brief account is mainly based on an analysis I have made 
of the cases recorded by the Royal Society and Liverpool expeditions to Africa. 



I 



TRYPANOSOMIASIS— EARLY STAGES 99 

EARLY STAGE WITH FEW OR NO SYMPTOMS.— By examining the blood 
of a large number of apparently health}- persons in Senegambia and the Congo 
State, Dutton and Todd were able to study a number of cases of early trypanoso- 
miasis, which were only recognizable by the parasites having been detected in 
their blood. A considerable proportion of them stated that they were in good 
health, and complained of no symptoms whatever. Others had occasional sUght 
intermittent fever, accompanied by weakness, and sometimes an increased 
rapidity of both the pulse and respiration. A physical examination showed 
no constant signs or lesions, with the all important exception of general enlargement 
of the superficial lymphatic glands. Neither the patients nor their friends 
had any suspicion that they were ill, nor did they show mental dullness or slow- 
ness of expression. Such cases can only be detected by an examination of the 
blood or lymphatic gland juice for active trypanosomes. Yet on their detection 
depends both the main hope of protecting them from the development of the 
later extension of the infection to the cerebro-spinal system, which constitutes 
the fatal sleeping sickness, and also the prevention of their carrying the disease 
germs into places which may have been previously uninfected. 

INTERMEDIATE STAGE WITH MILD SYMPTOMS, BUT WITHOUT THE 
CEREBRAL SYMPTOMS OF SLEEPING SICKNESS.— Dutton and Todd record 
cases of an intermediate type with irregular intermittent fever, occasionally becoming 
remittent or of a low continued type for a few days. The patient may be somewhat 
weak, but is usually well nourished, unless there is some other cause of wasting 
present. The superficial lymphatic glands, especially of the posterior triangles 
of the neck, are enlarged, but oedema and tremors are absent. The pulse and 
respirations may be quickened. There is as yet no sleepiness or marked mental 
dullness although the patient may have become untidy and careless, and be easily 
fatigued. In Europeans patches of an erythematous rash have been recorded 
in this stage by Sir P. Manson and others, together with transient oedema, but in 
natives only a dry and rough skin, sometimes due to local affections, is noted. 

This stage of blood and gland infection may continue for many months, or 
even for one or more years, but whenever it is possible to follow up such patients, 
they almost invariably eventually pass on into the deadly sleeping sickness stage, 
as in those reported by the Commission in Uganda already mentioned. 

STAGE OF CEREBRO-SPINAL INFECTION OF SLEEPING SICKNESS.— 
When at last the trypanosome finds its way into the arachnoid space and sets up 
a chronic form of cerebro-spinal meningitis, accompanied by a mononuclear cellular 
infiltration of the pia-arachnoid membranes and surface of the brain, then the 
mental changes ensue, which constitute the essential symptoms of sleeping sickness. 
The disease now for the first time presents a fairly typical clinical picture, which 
becomes more and more characteristic as it progresses to its inevitably fatal termi- 
nation, unless the drug treatment now being experimented with, proves effective 
in preventing as well as postponing the progress of the affection. 



100 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

MENTAL CONDITION. — In all the earlier accounts of the disease the most 
striking symptom was a tendency for the patient to go off to sleep at any time 
of the day, although he was easily roused from this condition. In the Congo State, 
however, Dutton and Todd found this symptom was quite an unusual one, while 
it may also be absent, especially in the less advanced stages, in the epidemic 
disease in Uganda. From an analysis of 50 cases of sleeping sickness recorded in 
the reports from both sides of Africa, I find that, on admission, by far the most 
usual mental condition was a marked dullness of the intellect, with slowness in 
answering questions, a vacant look, and an apathetic state. Actual sleepiness 
was much less frequent, although the tendency of the patient to lie about doing 
nothing and taking no interest in his surroundings, may easily lead to his being 
thought to be actually asleep. He is, however, easily aroused, especially for meals, 
which he reUshes highly. As the disease progresses the mental dullness deepens 
into actual drowsiness, and eventually he may become comatose during the last 
few days. 

Other nervous symptoms which may be met with are a chronic mild form of 
mania ; retraction of the head, and even opisthotonos. The reflexes appear to 
present no constant changes, being usually recorded as normal, while an increase 
or a decrease of the knee jerk were about equally frequent, and ankle clonus was 
occasionally recorded. In the later stages there may be great wasting of the 
muscles and extreme weakness with shuffling gait, but actual paralysis appears 
to be very exceptional. Rigidity of muscles may also occur. 

TREMOR is a very constant and important symptom, being much most often 
seen in the tongue. It occurs next most frequently in the hands, and may extend 
to any part of the body in advanced cases. The fine tremor of the tongue is one 
of the most constant symptoms of the disease when it has reached a fairly typical 
condition, and has been used to define a particular stage of the affection. 

HEADACHE is also frequently present, and may be noted in an early stage. 
Pains and hyperaesthesia in various parts of the body are also not infrequently 
recorded. Post mortem the pia-arachnoid membrane presents a ground-glass 
like appearance. The cerebro-spinal fluid is usually clear, but may be sUghtly 
turgid, and in excess. Microscopically there is a marked mononuclear infiltration 
of the membranes, which extends along the perivascular spaces into the brain 
substance as described by Dr. Mott. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVE. — The p5nrexia of trypanosomiasis is very 
variable and appears to present no characteristic features. It may be absent 
altogether for considerable periods in aU stages of the disease. The pubHshed 
charts show that it is most frequently of an intermittent type, usually only rising 
to 100° or 101° in the evening, and being normal or subnormal in the morning. It 
may occasionally assume a remittent type, but as a rule only for a few days at a 
time, while it rarely or never shows a high continued type. It may sometimes for 



TRYPANOSOMIASIS— CLINICAL SYMPTOMS 101 

a time be of a low continued type, that is falling below 101°, but not varying over 
more than 2° daily. There is no constant relationship between the rises of tempera- 
ture and the presence of trypanosomes in the blood, but they are more often present 
during pyrexia than in its absence, while the fever may sometimes be associated 
with an increase of the parasites in the cerebro-spinal fluid. In the last stage 
of sleeping sickness the temperature is nearly always sub-normal, and often markedly 
so for days or even weeks at a time, and it is at this time that the secondary inva- 
sion of cocci or the bacillus coli communis commonly takes place. On the whole 
the temperature curve appears to be of very Uttle diagnostic value. 

THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM.— The heart itself shows no important change, 
but the pulse is stated by several observers to be unusually rapid in proportion 
to the degree of pyrexia present, and this may be the case in the early stage of 
trypanosomiasis, before the nervous system has become implicated. This symptom, 
however, is far from being constantly marked, for out of 30 cases, in which the 
pulse was recorded on admission, in 21 it did not exceed 100 beats a minute, in 
3 it was from 100 to 119, and in 6 reached 120 or over. It \vas most frequently 
between 80 and 90. It is of low tension and small. 

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM.— The lungs are also usually normal, except for 
occasional terminal comphcations. The respirations are said to be rapid, but in 
only 3 out of 13 cases noted on admission did the rate exceed 20 per minute. SUght 
bronchitis was noted in a few of the Congo cases as a complication, and some conges- 
tion was frequently found post mortem, but in only 2 out of 36 autopsies I have 
analysed were actual pneumonic consolidation found, and in another some pleurisy. 
Button and Todd also record gangrene of the lung and locahzed tubercle of the 
organ as terminal comphcations. 

LIVER. — ^No affection of the liver appears to be produced by the trypano- 
somes. In 27 out of 33 cases the organ was recorded as being normal, and in the 
remaining 6 shght enlargement was present, but this was usually of malarial origin. 
In 5 post mortems some degree of cirrhosis was found, but it is not clear whether 
this was due to the trypanosome infection, malaria, or other cause. 

THE SPLEEN. — In 12 out of 33 cases the spleen was to be felt below the ribs, 
but it very rarely showed marked enlargement. Post mortem, in two-thirds 
of the cases showing increased size of the spleen, malarial pigmentation was 
present, and in the remainder the organ was only slightly in excess of the normal, 
and presented a congested appearance, the enlargement being thus commonly 
malarial in origin, so that at any rate no great increase of the organ is produced by 
trypanosome infection. In several cases in which spleen puncture was recorded, 
only a few of the parasites were found, so that the trypanosomes do not appear 
to accumulate in this organ, and its puncture is of less diagnostic value than the 
simpler and much less dangerous aspiration of the lymph glands. 

LYMPHATIC GLANDS. — The constant and early enlargement of the super- 
ficial lymphatic glands has been already mentioned as the most important physical 



102 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



sign in the disease. They are commonly described as being hard and varying from 
the size of a pea to that of a bean or hazel nut, but they may be much larger. In 
the last stages they may show coccal infection, and in consequence undergo soften- 
ing, especially the femorals, as a result of chigoe parasites in the feet. Unsoftened 
glands may also show coccal infection when this is of a general nature during the 
last few days of life. The enlarged glands always contain numerous trypanosomes 
in all stages of the disease, even when they are absent from the circulating blood, 
and thus afford an easy method of verifying the diagnosis by obtaining the parasite 
from them. Hence their practical importance cannot be exaggerated. In the 
great majority of cases the enlargement is a general one, but the posterior cervical 
glands are specially frequently involved, which is a point of great value on account 
of their ready accessibility. I only found one case in those analysed in which 
the cervical glands are recorded as not being enlarged. 

THE TONGUE presents no characteristic features, although it is conjmonly 
furred during fever. 

THE BOWELS are most frequently constipated, but diarrhoea and dysentery 
may occur as complications. 

SICKNESS is not often mentioned in the clinical histories, although Greig 
and Gray record several cases in which peculiar petechial haemorrhages and 
superficial erosion of the mucous membrane were found post mortem. 

THE URINE presents no important changes, neither albumen nor sugar having 
been recorded on admission in the series analysed. 

PROGRESS AND TERMINAL COMPLICATIONS.— The course of the disease 
is very variable, but once the arachnoid space has been invaded by the trypanosomes, 
its advance is much more rapid. In the recorded cases the duration of the disease 
after definite symptoms of illness had appeared, varied from three to nine months, 
although it may occasionally be longer or shorter than that period. Progressive 
weakness and emaciation are observed, causing the patient to become bedridden. 
Temporary marked improvements may occur, but they are not of long duration, 
and once the cerebro-spinal fluid is found to contain the parasites the down-hill 
course is usually a steady one. 

Various terminal complications may finally ensue ; 13 out of 22 post 
mortems on the Congo showed either lung complication, septic infection or 
dysentery. In the epidemic disease in East Africa such complications appear 
to have been less common, but in 7 out of 16 post mortems recorded by 
Greig and Gray a general infection with a diplococcus was proved by cultures 
from the cerebro-spinal fluid, heart blood and lymphatic glands. As in several 
of them punctures made only a few days before death showed no such organ- 
isms, the complication must have occurred very shortly before death. In the 
remainder the trypanosomes alone appear to have produced the fatal termina- 
tion. 







o 




o 



I 



TRYPANOSOMIASIS— THE PARASITE 103 

MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD, LYMPH AND CEREBRO-SPINAL 

FLUID 

THE BLOOD CHANGES, PRESENCE OF THE TRYPANOSOME.— As* an 
account of the extremely uncharacteristic nature of the early stages of trypanoso- 
miasis shows it to be impossible to diagnose the disease, with certainty, by purely 
clinical measures, the microscopical examination of the blood and tissues in which 
the trypanosome is to be found is of the greatest practical importance. Although 
the organism was first found in the peripheral blood, yet it may often be absent 
from it for considerable periods, and be very scanty and easily overlooked when 
it is present there. For this reason the examination of a small drop of fresh blood 
under a cover-glass with an ^ inch lens (which will allow of the active movement 
produced among the red corpuscles by the parasite being detected), although a 
method efficient, when numerous organisms are present, often fails when they are 
very few. A much better way is to withdraw several cubic centimetres of blood 
from a vein, into a little citrate of soda solution, or several large drops from the 
finger tip and centrifuge it in a small tube, the distal end of which has been drawn 
out into a narrower portion. Dutton and Todd advise slow centrifuging first for 
several minutes, and then for a shorter time at a higher speed. The thin layer 
of white corpuscles on top of the red should be pipetted off and examined fresh for 
the motile organisms, the whole procedure being completed as quickly as possible, 
on account of their rapid loss of motion outside the body. By this means the 
parasite can be frequently found in the blood when a simple microscopical examin- 
ation fails to reveal it. The improved centrifuging method, however, has been 
to a large extent superseded by the simpler and still more efficacious mode of 
gland puncture to be described below. The microscopical appearance of the 
organism is shown in Plate 8. A drawing of the carrier of the infection, the tsetse 
fly, is also given. 

THE RED CORPUSCLES AND HAEMOGLOBIN have been carefuUy studied 
by Greig and Gray, who found them to be normal, in the early stages of sleeping 
sickness, while towards the end both might be actually increased without any signs 
of cyanosis. 

THE LEUCOCYTES show marked changes, consisting of an increase of the 
mononuclears at the expense of the polynuclears, as in some other protozoal infec- 
tions, while the total count is usually either within the normal limits, or shows a 
shght degree of leucocytosis. Table VII has been worked out from a number 
of counts of Greig and Gray, while Dutton, Todd and Christy, in the Congo 
State obtained very closely similar results. 



104 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



TABLE VII. 



-LEUCOCYTE COUNTS IN TRYPANOSOMIASIS AND SLEEPING 
SICIvNESS. 





Early Cases. | First £ 


Itage. 

5 
2 


Second Stage. 


Third ni x i 
Stage. TotaL 


Pabt I. — Total count : — 
3,000-6,000 .... 
6,000-8,000 .... 
8,000-10,000 . . . 
10,000-14,000 . . . 
14,000-20,000 . . . 
Over 20,000 .... 


3 
6 
9 
5 
3 
I 


t 

\ 
< 


I 
5 
6 
12 
6 
2 


1 
7 
6 
6 
4 
2 


5 
22 
25 
28 
15 

5 


Past II. — Differential 
count : — 
Percentage .... 

Polynuclears 

Lymphocytes 

Percentage 

Tiarge mononuclears 


10-20 
3 

4 
0-8 
22 


21-30 
24 
21 

8-12 
26 


31-40 

29 

37 
13-15 

18 


41-50 

24 

27 
16-20 

16 


51-60 

20 

9 

20-25 

12 


61-70 
3 
4 

+ 26 

! d 

1 


71-80 

1 


103 
103 

103 



It appears from this table that the total counts may vary greatly, but the 
leucocytes are most frequently normal m the earliest stage, but a slight degree 
of leucocytosis is more common in the later ones. The increase of both varieties 
of mononuclears at the expense of the polynuclears is marked in all stages, and it 
is specially noteworthy that it is stiU evident during leucocytosis, although occa- 
sionally there may be some rise in the proportion of the polynuclears during a final 
terminal coccal infection very shortly before death, although without their 
being increased above the normal percentage. 

The large mononuclears were within the normal Kmits in nearly one-fourth, 
especially in the early stages, while in 37 of the 103 counts they exceeded 15 
per cent., so that the differential count affords no help in separating trypanosomiasis 
from malaria. 

CEREBRO-SPINAL FLUID. — The Trypanosoma Gambiense was first found 
in sleeping sickness by Castellani while examining the cerebro-spinal fluid for the 
diplococcus, which he thought at the time was the cause of the disease, although 
it is now known to be but a very late and inconstant terminal infection. Bruce 
and Nabarro subsequently showed that, once the typical symptoms of sleeping 
sickness have set in, the organism can be always found in the cerebro-spinal fluid 
by centrifuging and microscoping the deposit, although it may be necessary to 
make more than one lumbar puncture before it is detected, as it may be periodically 
absent from this secretion as well as from the blood. The importance of this exami- 
nation depends on the fact that once the organism has gained access to the central 
nervous lymph spaces the disease nearly always runs a more or less rapid course 



TRYPANOSO^nASIS— DIAGNOSIS 105 

to a fatal termination, and the mental symptoms, which are so characteristic of 
the disease, are due to this extension of the habitat of the parasite, for they 
are absent as long as the trypanosome remains limited to the blood and the lymphatic 
glands. The organism is sometimes present in the spinal canal in such numbers 
as to be readily found by a simple examination of the freshly drawn fluid, but 
usually it is necessary to centrifuge in order to discover the organism. According 
to Christy a temporary marked increase of the parasites in the cerebro-spinal fluid, 
without any rise in the number in the peripheral blood, may be accompanied by 
a marked rise in temperature. The operation of lumbar puncture is described 
on p. 325. 

LYMPHATIC GLAND PUNCTURE.— It has been known for a century that the 
earhest symptom of approaching sleeping sickness is a more or less general enlarge- 
ment of the lymphatic glands, especially those in the posterior triangles of the 
neck. It was not, however, until Greig and Gray discovered that the Trypanosoma 
Gambiense can easily and constantly be found in a small quantity of fluid with- 
drawn by puncturing such glands, that their significance was fully realized. 
Owing to the rarity and inconstancy of the parasite in the peripheral blood, in 
aU stages of trypanosomiasis and sleeping sickness, gland puncture is a greatly 
improved diagnostic measure, and allows of the detection of the trjrpanosome 
in the earliest stages of the primary uncompUcated disease, when there are commonly 
few if any clinical symptoms to draw attention to the serious infection which 
has taken place, and in a stage when treatment may have a considerable value 
in at least warding off or postponing the fatal extension to the nervous system. 

For the purpose of this examination a small syringe with a tightly fitting 
piston is necessary, as good suction power is required. It is best to detach the needle 
before withdrawing it, so as to prevent the small amount of material within its lumen 
being dispersed into the barrel of the syringe. It is then diluted with a httle citrated 
salt solution and examined fresh as soon as possible for the motile organism, 
another portion being stained if permanent specimens are desired. 

DIAGNOSIS.— In the EARLY STAGE OF UNCOMPLICATED TRYPANOSO- 
MIASIS fever is the symptom which usually first brings the patient under observa- 
tion. As the pyrexia is of an irregular intermittent character, malaria will probably 
be suspected, and must be excluded by the absence of malarial parasites from the 
blood and the failure of quinine to rapidly subdue the pyrexia. If a differentia] 
leucocyte count is made at the same time, the constant decrease of the polynuclears 
and increase of the proportion of the lymphocytes, and commonly also of the large 
mononuclears, especially if accompanied by a shght degree of leucocytosis, 
should, in the absence of malaria, lead to a suspicion of trypanosomiasis 
if the patient has resided in the endemic area of that disease. Enlargement of 
the superficial lymphatic glands should then be carefully sought for, and if a fairly 
general affection of them is found the suspicion will be greatly strengthened. One 
or more cubic centimetres of blood should be centrifuged, and the layer 



106 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

of white corpuscles above the red ones examined fresh with an J inch lens 
for trypanosomes, the examination being repeated after a few days if negative 
at first. If none are found, one of the enlarged glands should be punctured, when 
the organism is almost certain to be detected if the disease be trypanosomiasis. 

THE LATER STAGE WITH CEREBRO-SPINAL INVOLVEMENT presents 
much more definite mental symptoms, which will direct attention to the nature of 
the disease, but here again a certain diagnosis in any but an advanced condition 
must depend on finding the trypanosome in the cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar 
puncture which may have to be repeated before a positive result is obtained. 
In this stage the disease is said by G. C. Low to occasionally simulate locomotor 
ataxy. 

TREATMENT. — Owing to the extreme chronicity and the mildness of the 
symptoms in uncomphcated tr3rpanosomiasis the effect of treatment is very difficult 
to estimate. That quinine has no effect on the parasites, while arsenic does cause 
them to disappear from the blood for considerable periods, is certain, but similar 
results can be obtained in animals suffering from other trypanosome infections 
such as surra, without preventing the fatal termination, although it may apparently 
be delayed to some extent. By the use of combinations of arsenic and aniline 
dyes, such as trypanred and atoxyl, a very considerable prolongation of the lives of 
animals infected with the Trjrpanosoma Gambiense has been obtained by Thomas 
and Breinl in the Liverpool laboratories, while within the last year still more favour- 
able results have been obtained there by alternate dosage with atoxyl and mercury, 
which appears to act better than the former drug alone. Although it is too early 
yet to say that any cases have been cured by these drugs, still the course of the 
disease has certainly been greatly lengthened and the symptoms in comparatively 
early cases have improved or disappeared for a time, so that it is not too much to 
hope that by these or other similar measures, cases of early blood and lymph infec- 
tions may sometimes be prevented from passing on to the stage of involvement 
of the lymph spaces of the central nervous system, although once the latter have 
been attacked and the mental symptoms of sleeping sickness have ensued, the 
prognosis is much less hopeful. 

ETIOLOGY. — The etiology and mode of spread of trypanosomiasis and sleeping 
sickness remain to be considered, the most important additions to our knowledge 
of which we owe to the briUiant researches of Colonel D. Bruce and his coadjutors 
Drs. Nabarro and Greig, who constituted the second Commission of the Royal 
Society. The results maybe sunmiedup in Bruce's conclusion that "Sleeping sick- 
ness is, in short, a human tsetse fly disease." Although Castellani first found the 
trypanosome in the cerebro-spinal fluid in sleeping sickness, yet, according to 
the second Commission, "he did not consider that this trypanosome had any causal 
relationship to the disease, but thought it was an accidental concomitant Uke 
Filaria perstans." Bruce, who had discovered the trypanosome of tsetse fly disease 
in South African cattle some years before, at once recognized the significance of such 



TRYPANOSOMIASIS— ETIOLOGY 107 

an organism in sleeping sickness, and soon proved that trypanosomes were present in 
the cerebro-spinal fluid of every case of the disease, and also in the peripheral blood 
in practically all, while it was absent in other affections. Moreover, in the sleeping 
sickness areas 28-7 per cent, of 80 natives showed a trypanosome similar to that of 
sleeping sickness in their blood, but in a non-sleeping sickness area 117 examinations 
gave no positive result. Further, the subcutaneous injection into monkeys of 
trypanosomes obtained from the blood of patients showing no symptoms of sleeping 
sickness, and those from the cerebro-spinal fluid of undoubted cases, both gave 
rise to a similar disease, which in its later stages clinically resembled sleeping 
sickness, and was then accompanied by the presence of the organism in the cerebro- 
spinal fluid of these animals. Later, Dutton, Todd and other Liverpool workers 
showed that the animal reactions of tr3rpanosomes from the blood and the 
cerebro-spinal system respectively are identical, and differed from those of cattle 
tsetse fly disease in not being lethal to the latter animals. 

Bruce next set to work to see if the distribution of sleeping sickness corresponded 
to that of any particular insect which might carry the infection, and found that it 
was in very close agreement with that of a tsetse fly, the Glossina palpalis. Further, 
it was proved that these flies, when fed on the blood of sleeping sickness patients 
and then caused to bite monkeys, conveyed the disease to them. Lastly, the same 
species of flies caught in localities badly infected with sleeping sickness, also pro- 
duced the disease in monkeys on which they were fed, thus completing the evidence 
that trypanosomiasis, including its later comphcation of the nervous system producing 
the symptoms of sleeping sickness, is a human tsetse fly disease. 

Much work has been done to ascertain if any developmental stage of the T. 
Gambiense takes place in the alimentary canal of the tsetse fly. Bruce originally 
proved that another variety of tsetse fly, Glossina morsitans, can carry the infection 
of the cattle disease up to forty-eight hours after being fed on an infected animal, 
but not longer. In 1901 (Proc. Roy. Soc.) I found that the trjrpanosome of surra in 
Indian horses could be mechanically conveyed from one animal to another by the bites 
of horseflies (Tabanidae) an observation which has been confkmed in the Philippine 
Islands and elsewhere. Koch and also Gray and Tullock found great numbers 
of trypanosomes in the alimentary canal of tsetse flies fed on sleeping sickness 
patients, which they considered to be developmental forms of T. Gambiense, but later 
Professor E. A. Minchin in working in Uganda with Gray and Tullock, found that 
these forms belonged to two species of trypanosomes, which were quite distinct 
from T. Gambiense, while the latter died out of the alimentary tract of the flies 
within four days, no development occurring during this time. They further 
showed that in the case of a cattle trypanosomiasis, tsetse flies, after biting an in- 
fected animal, could carry the infection to only the first animal subsequently bitten, 
but never to a second one. This indicated that the trypanosomes had remained 
alive in the proboscis of the fly, and were washed out at the first bite, but no regurgita- 
tion of the organisms in the proventriculus subsequently occurred, which might 
infect a second animal. The infection, then, is purely mechanical, as I had found 
it to be in the case of surra carried by tabanidae. Minchin in one case also conveyed 



108 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

the infection in a similar way by the bite of stomoxys, although other observers 
had previously failed to obtain trypanosome infection in Africa with any but tsetse 
flies. 

PROPHYLAXSIS. — It was the terrible mortaUty caused by the Uganda 
epidemic of sleeping sickness which led to the elucidation of the disease by recent 
investigations. Unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to practically apply 
the prophylactic measures thereby indicated. The protection of individuals is 
greatly aided by the fact that tsetse flies are very rarely seen more than a quarter 
of a mile from rivers or lakes, so that camps in infected zones should always be 
pitched at least that distance from such waters. The efficacy of this precaution 
is, however, much restricted by the rivers and lakes being the main highways of 
commerce in Central Africa. 

Of still greater importance is the prevention of the disease being carried to 
yet uninfected areas, in which possible carriers of the parasite exist. The preval- 
ence of tsetse flies in many parts of Africa has been worked out by E. E. Austin, 
various kinds being found along the shores of nearly all the great rivers and lakes. 
Owing to the long latent period after infection with trypanosomes before definite 
symptoms appear, it is extremely difficult to prevent persons who harbour the 
parasite travelling to uninfected parts. The most practical suggestion yet made for 
hmiting the spread of this terrible affection is 'that of Todd to take advantage of 
the constancy of enlargement of the superficial lymphatic glands in the earliest stage 
of the disease. By examining all persons travelling by the main routes, and turning 
back those with enlarged glands, the vast majority, if not all, infected persons 
would be rejected. Doubtless many suffering from other diseases would be also 
stopped, but hardship in special cases could be prevented by requiring them to 
submit to gland puncture, and allowing any showing no trypanosomes to pass. 
The vast importance of preventing repetitions of the Uganda epidemic fully justifies 
such a measure. 

REFERENCES TO TRYPANOSOMIASIS AND SLEEPING SICKNESS 

1902. Dutton, J. E. Preliminary Note upon a Trypanosome occtirring in the Blood of Man. 
Thompson- Yates Lab. Repts., Vol. IV, Part II, p. 455. 

1903-7. Reports of Royal Society's Sleeping Sickness Commission. Nos. I to VIII (con- 
taining 22 communications). 

1902. Dutton, J. E. and Todd, J. L. First Report of the Trypanosomiasis Expedition to 
Senegambia. Liv. Sch. Trop. Med. Mem. XI. 

1904. Dutton, J. E., Todd, J. L. and Cliristy, C. Reports of the Trypanosomiasis Expedition 
to the Congo. Liv. Sch. Trop. Med. Mem. XIII. 

1904. Greig, E. W. D. and Gray, A. C. H. Note on the Lymphatic Glands in Sleeping Sick- 

ness. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 1,252. 

1905. Dutton, J. E. and Todd, J. L. The Distribution and Spread of Sleeping Sickness in 

the Congo Free State. Trans. Epidemiological Soc, Vol. XXV, p. 1. 
1905. Thomas, H. W. and Breinl, A. Trypanosomes, Trypanosomiasis and Sleeping 
Sickness, pathology and treatment. Liv. Sch. Trop. Med. Mem. XVI. 



III. TYPHOID FEVER (INCLUDING PARA-TYPHOID) 

Ever since typhoid fever was first clearly recognized in India by Scriven in 1854 
(a brief account of which has been given on p. 10), its differentiation from 
other continued and remittent fevers in the East has been the subject of much 
discussion. Although well marked cases, especially in fair skinned Europeans, 
are straightforward enough, yet the milder types, without the characteristic rash 
or marked abdominal and intestinal symptoms, were commonly returned as " simple 
continued " or " remittent " fever : terms of the vaguest significance and hence 
readily adapted as a label for doubtful cases. Moreover, in the case of natives of 
India much doubt for long remained regarding the exact prevalence of typhoid, 
mainly because post mortems were seldom obtained at the ages that we now know 
the disease is most frequent among them, while the subject was further obscured 
by the fact that as late as the eighties, eminent authorities, including J. F. P. 
McConneU, Physician and Pathologist at Calcutta, maintained that ulceration of 
the Peyers patches might be found in cases ot " remittent fever " other than typhoid. 
With the advent of Widal's test these difficulties were largely cleared away, 
and the following references to the most important recent work will suffice to prove 
that typhoid fever is a common enough disease among natives — that is, the 
indigenous population of nearly every province of India. 

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF TYPHOID AMONG NATIVES IN INDIA. 
— ^In 1893 A. C. Crombie, I. M.S., maintained that natives of India were largely 
immune to typhoid, but his views were opposed by H. W. Pilgrim, W. J. Buchanan 
and others. In 1899, A. Buchanan recorded 25 cases of tjrphoid in natives 
in the Nagpur jail (Central Provinces) since 1894, with several post mortems. In 
1901 R. H. Elliot verified 13 cases by the serum test among natives in the 
General Hospital, Madras, within a period of three and a half months, and a month 
later G. Lamb recorded 7 cases with complete serum reactions in dilutions 
of from 1 in 10 to 1 in 50 in 6, and to 1 in 100 in the remaining one, and a second 
series in the following year of 10 cases, one of which reacted up to 1 in 100. In 
the same year the writer recorded 13 cases of typhoid in natives in the Medical 
CoUege Hospital during five months in 10 of which positive serum reactions in 
dilutions of from 1 in 100 to 1 in 500 were obtained, while one was also verified 
post mortem. Stokes reported the disease in natives of Abbotabad, on the Punjab 
frontier, and Duer from Rangoon, in Burma, in 1902, while A. PoweU in 1904 recorded 
24 cases in natives of Bombay. During the last six years I have verified 
the presence of typhoid by complete serum reactions in high dilutions in 50 natives 
in Calcutta and the neighbouring districts of Lower Bengal, but the disease appears 
to be less common in Eastern Bengal and Assam than in the western part of the 

109 



110 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

province and other parts of India. With the exception of Eastern Bengal and Assam, 
there is now reliable evidence of the frequency of typhoid in the indigenous popula- 
tion of every large province of India. It is worthy of note that the north-eastern 
areas, where the disease appears to be rare, are distinguished by the heavy and 
long continued rainfall, frequent downpours commonly occmring during the hot 
weather months of from April to the middle of June, when the typhoid areas are 
much dried up and extremely dusty. 

In the native army the disease is much rarer than among European soldiers 
for the reason explained under the head of age incidence, but Gurkhas are especially 
liable to the disease, a fact which has been attributed to their semi-European meat 
eating habits, but which may equally weU depend on their being less exposed to 
the disease during early life in their Himalayan home than are the inhabitants 
of the plains of India. 

The importance of the recognition of the wide prevalence of typhoid among 
natives in the East cannot be over-estimated from the point of view of checking 
the terrible incidence of the disease among Europeans in such countries as India ; 
for the strictest hygiene of the barracks will not entirely prevent the disease as 
long as the sanitation of the surrounding native population is neglected and the 
bazaars of the city are open to European soldiers, although E. Roberts is of the 
opinion that the infection is more frequently obtained in the cantonments themselves 
than in native bazaars. 

THE INCIDENCE OF TYPHOID AMONG EUROPEANS IN INDIA.— Since 
the days of Bryden the special incidence of typhoid fever in India on young Euro- 
pean soldiers during their first few years' service in India has been well known. 
Opportunities are less favourable for studying this point in the case of civilian 
Europeans in the tropics, but during the last six years I have carried out the Widal 
test in nearly all fevers which could possibly have been typhoid in the large European 
Hospital at Calcutta, an analysis of which has furnished the following results. Two 
different classes of patients are included among the typhoid cases, requiring 
separate consideration. Firstly, there are the European civilian immigrants, 
who nearly all go to the tropics in early adult life, and secondly there are the Euro- 
peans of pure and mixed blood, who have been born and bred in India, nearly all 
of whom belong to the poorer classes and for the most part live in parts of Calcutta 
which are also inhabited by the indigenous Indians. 

Table VIII shows the incidence of typhoid among immigrant Europeans in 
Calcutta classed both according to their age and sex and the length of their 
residence in India. These figures require little comment as they show a similar 
incidence among these civilian Europeans to that of their military brethren. 
The only child attacked had been ten years in the country, while one lad of 19 
had immigrated thirteen years before his attack. Only 8 other patients out 
of 55 had resided over three years in India, while no less than 81.88 per cent, of 
the total were attacked within three years of reaching India, and as many as 50 per 
cent, contracted typhoid within one year of their arrival in Bengal, and 67 per cent. 



TYPHOID FEVER INCIDENCE 



111 



TABLE VIII.— THE INCIDENCE OF TYPHOID AMONG EUROPEAN IMMIGRANTS 

TO INDIA. 



Age. ^""Pder , ^^^0. 

• i 16- ; 


21-25. 26-30. 


30-40. 


40. 


Total. 


Per- 
centage. 


TT J 1 • T J- (Males . . 6 
Under 1 year in Indian ^ 

•^ (Females . 

, „ • T J- (Males . . 
1-2 years in India -^ ^^ , 

"^ (Females . 

o g T A- (Males . . 
2-3 J- ears in India i t^ , 

•^ (Females . 

^ o - T J- (Males . . 1 1 
Over 3 years in India ^ ,-, , 

•^ (Females . 


9 8 

2 
4 2 

1 

1 5 


2 2 



2 



1 
1 
2 

2 



1 






2 



26 
2 
7 
2 
8 


10 



50-9 
16-4 
14-5 
18-2 


rp, , 1 (Males . . 1 
1 Females . 


7 16 17 
1 2 


7 
1 


3 



51 

4 


55 



within the first two years of their residence in the tropics. Sailors developing the 
disease within two weeks of their arrival in port have been excluded, while the 
figures remain practically unchanged if aU sailors are omitted. 

The importance of this fact hes in the possibihty of this heavy incidence of 
typhoid during the first few years of the residence of all classes of European immi- 
grants to tropics being prevented to a large extent by the more general adoption of 
Wright's prophylactic inoculation, should the favourable results of this procedure 
already reported be confirmed by further experience {see p. 144). 

AGE INCIDENCE OF TYPHOID AMONG INDIAN BORN EUROPEANS COM- 
PARED WITH THAT OF TEMPERATE CLIMATES.— When we come to consider 
the incidence of typhoid on the class of Indian born and bred Europeans we meet 
with the very striking results shown in Table IX. In the first place the cases 



TABLE IX.— AGE INCIDENCE OF TYPHOID IN INDIAN BORN EUROPEANS 
COMPARED WITH THAT OF TEMPERATE CLIMATES. 



Age. 


Under 
11. 


11-14. 


16-20. 21-25. 

1 


26-30. 30-40. 

1 


Over 
40. 


Total. 


Bom in ( Males 

India (Females 


9 
5 


6 
10 


13 6 

8 7 


1 

3 
3 1 



1 


37 
35 


Total . ^ 


14 


16 


21 1 13 


3 4 


1 


72 




30 


34 


8 






Percentage 


41-67 


47-23 


11-10 




Cursclunann's Hamburg cases . 
Curschmann's Leipsic cases . 
Osier's ^lontreal cases . . . .* 


1102 
9-59 
7-73 


58-68 
49-40 
46-69 


30-30 
4001 

45-58 





Note. — Curschmann's second age period is from 15 to 24, and his third from 25 upwards. 



112 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

are divided very equally between the two sexes (instead of a marked preponderance 
among the males of the immigrant classes on account ot their far exceeding in numbers 
the females). Secondly, the age incidence of the disease dififers very widely from 
that of temperate climates of Europe and America as illustrated by the figures 
of Curschmann and Osier, which are given in the table. Thus in the Calcutta series 
41 67 per cent, of the patients were under 15 years of age against from 8 to 11 
per cent, in temperate cHmates, and in correlation with this only ll'l of the 
tropical cases patients were over 25 years of age, against 40 to 45 per cent, in 
Europe and North America. In the intermediate periods of life between 15 and 
25 years of age the incidence is essentially the same in both cUmates. The inci- 
dence, then, of typhoid among Europeans horn and bred in the tropics is four times 
as great among children under 15 and four times as little among adults over 25 years 
of age, as compared with temperate climates. 

It has been mentioned that this class of Europeans live intimately mingled 
with the native Indian population, and under sanitary conditions little, if at all, 
superior to those of the better-to-do Indians. It has for long been suspected that 
the relative infrequency of typhoid among adult Indians, as compared with that of 
immigrant Europeans in the tropics, might be due to many Indians having suffered 
from the disease in childhood, but it has been very difficult to obtain clear evidence 
on this point, as native children are very rarely brought for admission to hospital 
when suffering from fever. The disease is, however, common among native Chris- 
tian children in the hands of European missionaries, who are readily brought to 
hospital ; indeed during the last few years I have repeatedly obtained positive serum 
tests for typhoid in high dilutions of 1 in 100 or more with the blood of Indian 
children, often those of Indian medical men. There appears, then, good reason 
for beheving that the remarkably low age incidence of typhoid among Indian 
born Europeans also applies to the indigenous population among whom they live, 
and thus the comparative rarity of typhoid among the large adult population of 
the Indian Army and jails, is explained Tvdthout supposing that typhoid is a very 
rare disease among the natives of India, as held by E. Roberts in his recent book 
on enteric fever. The fact that in every city provided with large hospitals with 
special physicians and medical wards, typhoid has been found to be quite common 
among the native population, is too striking a fact to admit of the disease being 
considered to be rare among Indians because such patients have not been very 
frequently admitted to the dispensaries, which are mainly occupied with surgical 
cases. 

SEASONAL INCIDENCE OF TYPHOID IN INDIA 

This has been carefully studied by E. Roberts, from whoseTwork on enteric 
fever in India Table X, showing the percentage of cases in each quarter of the 
year from 1895 to 1898 in different Army Commands, has been taken. 

This shows a maximum in the dry hot months in Bengal and the Punjab, 
but in the wet monsoon' months in Bombay. Roberts describes three rises and 



TYPHOID FEVER— CLINICAL ACCOUNT 113 

TABLE X.— SEASONAL INCIDENCE OF TYPHOID IN INDIA. (E. Robebts). 





First Quarter. 


Second Quarter. 


Third Quarter. 


Fourth Quarter. 


Bengal 

Punjab 

Madras 

Bombay 


23-5 
10-2 
22-4 
13-2 


340 
42-9 
210 
220 


19-8 
24-9 
36-4 
43-3 


22-7 
220 
200 
21-5 


India 


181 


31-3 


281 1 22-4 



falls in the Punjab and Bengal commands, with their maxima in April and May ; 
July to September ; and in November respectively : but they are affected by 
movements of troops and other factors. 

In Calcutta the majority of cases occur in Europeans in the dry cold and hot 
seasons, falling to a lower point in the rains. On the other hand, among natives 
over half of my cases occurred in the four wet monsoon months from July to October. 
The probable explanation of the difference is that in Europeans, who do not drink 
unboiled or imfiltered water, the infection is mainly through dust in the dry seasons ; 
but in natives infection is often through water, which is specially liable to be con- 
taminated in the wet months with rising ground water level and frequent oppor- 
tunities for surface filth being carried into tanks and other collections of water. 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF TYPHOID IN INDIA BASED ON AN ANALYSIS OF THE 
NOTES OF FIVE YEARS' CASES VERIFIED BY SERUM TESTS IN THE CALCUTTA 
HOSPITALS 

Owing to the great difficulty in the accurate cKnical differentiation between 
the milder forms of tjrphoid and other fevers met with in the tropics it is essential 
that any description of the disease in the East should be based on a considerable 
series of cases verified by efficient serum tests. The following account is founded 
on an analysis of the notes and four hourly temperature charts of over 100 cases 
of typhoid treated in the Calcutta European hospital during the last six years, 
about 90 per cent, of which were verified by the serum test, while the remainder 
were absolutely t3rpical clinically, and have been included because among them 
were several very severe fatal cases, the omission of which would have involved 
errors regarding the death rate and other important points. Although the number 
of cases is too small to permit of safe conclusions being drawn concerning the exact 
frequency of the rarer complications, yet they will suffice to allow of an analysis 
of the more important features of the disease in comparison with the accounts 
of European and American writers, and a study of the differentiation of t3rphoid 
from other tropical fevers. 

THE GENERAL COURSE OF THE DISEASE 

Typhoid in the Tropics is in its essential features very similar to that of 
temperate climates, with the exception of its greater severity and duration, while 

8 



114 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



the pyrexia! curve somewhat less frequently shows the classical course ^described 
by European writers, especially as regards its rise. 

THE DURATION OF THE FEVER. — In temperate climates there are few fevers 
running a course of three weeks or more with which tjrphoid is liable to be confused, 
but the case is very different in the tropics, so that a knowledge of the limitations of 
the duration of tjrphoid fever in hot climates is of great importance. Table XI 
gives the data on this point of my Calcutta series, arranged so as to be compar- 
able with Curschmann's European figures. 

TABLE XI.— DURATION OF TYPHOID FEVER IN THE TROPICS. 





— 15 days. 


15-21 Days. 


22-33 Days. 


Over 33 Days. 


Total. 




-6 
o 


Died. 
Total. 


S 

> 
§ 

05 


•73 


1 
o 


Recovered. 
Died. 
Total. 


13 

> 


Died. 
Total. 


•6 

1 
1 

81 
17 


Died. 
Total. 


Adijlts over 15 . 


4 


2 6 23 


8 


31 


32 6 38 

38 
13 1 14 


22 


3 25 


19 100 


Percentage 
Children under 15 . 


2 


37 

— 2 7 


— 


7 


5 


25 
1 6 


2 29 


Percentage .... 


6 


31 
2 8 30 


8 


38 


48-2 


20-8 




Total cases. 


45 7 52 
40-3 


27 


4 31 


108 


21 129 


Percentage (4-7) . 


35-7 


20 


16-3 



Curschmann's Figures 
Adults up to 55 
Children to 14 



50-5 
76-51 



29-3 
160 



14 

7-5 



1 Cui'schmann gives this figure as 88'5 %, which appears to be a misprint. 

The cases of not more than three weeks' duration have been sub-divided to 
show the number of less than fifteen days' fever, as such abortive cases are 
particularly liable to be overlooked in the tropics. Excluding 2 cases which were 
fatal, they form, however, only 47 per cent, of the whole, so that they are quite 
uncommon {see p. 122). 

The main point brought out by this table is the larger proportion with prolonged 
fever in tjrphoid in the tropical East as compared with that of temperate parts of 
Europe. This is the case with both adults and children, the divergence from the 
European standard being most marked among the latter. Thus, in only about one- 
third of the Calcutta cases did the fever terminate by the end of the third week, 
against from one-half to three-quarters in Curschmann's series, while in 25 per 
cent, of the adults and 20 per cent, of the children the duration of the pyrexia 
exceeded thirty-three days, against 14 and 7 5 per cent, respectively in Germany. 
These differences appear to be too great to be due solely to the comparatively small 
number of my cases, so we can conclude that the temperature curve of tjrphoid 



Chart 12 (Case 992). 



V.tvcflfii- 


^■^ 


s: 




TT 


_ (^ 


"T" 


rr 


. .(^. 


"IT 


"•W 


£_ 


, 


6 


i7 


<ff 


1 Xtf 


1-40- 

r59°f 
: i 

; ^ 

: K 
i-57- 


106' • 
103' ■ 
:; 104' 

; los- 

1 .02. . 

1 .or • 
'^ ioo° - 

99- - 
y,-nmil 
!)8' - 

97° - 

Mm » 








.1 

. IV 






1 




1 1 


1 
1 










1 


1 




" 


1 


■ ^ -, t«[- 


1 






::■: 




,. ■. 






! 






. 




if 




: 


i 










"n 




J 


1 








::'r: 
















1 
























:.:::: 










1 








fr 

A 




. - 


* 






i 




f 


^ 


i 








f 


h 




•!> 


/V 


k^ 


\4 


V 


■V 


L 




M 


A 


n.h^ 


L- 




i" 


A 


A 


>" 






»" 




4k 






s< 


^ 


K 


p:,p:: 


>r 


■^ 


V^u 


^ 


All!/ 


" 


/ 


- 






! 












: r' 












;-V- 


HF 




* 


u 


F 


If 


- 




















\\- 




::/:: 














- 












. 


























■•■ 


_1_ 







___ 






1— 




^^ 








_^ 


_^ 









t 










J 


1 










— t— 
1 , 




■/■: 








' 


~ 


~~ 






--.-■■■.-.',- 


' 




- 
















- 


1 


- 


'■:", 




















r 








^■^1 


737 


/<w 




7<i: 


f^l 


fH 




/^ 




in\ 


/^ 




f*4 




/*! 




7^; 


M 




' 


ao 


/0a 


w 


U- 


^'2!^ 


' Uoo 




/*• 




ZSL 


/O^ 




116 




/^ 


-^^'! 


^'^ 




/o*^ 


I 


2^ 


Si 


ft 




^t 




vf 


7. 


^ 




-V* 




asi 


1 ; 


L34 


3ii 




y? 


-^-_i*4 




^r- 


'li 


^f 




fff 


\ 


•vi? 




JSI 


--!« 


^^^' 


'as 


y 


.A 


. .% . 


...^ 




-*^^ 


THi 


« 




« .: 


;4 




1 i/'i 


1 


Wire^lhi 


r^ 


L- 


-¥- 


■* 


-f- 


T-fN 


-f- 


^ 


kis- 


-* 


^ 


Jf,. 


■^ 


f^ 


-^ 


42. 


-^■^ 


i ^ 

r59-f 
: ^ 

1 1 

1-57 ■ 
i-S6» 


10*:) 

jo; ■ 

i^ lOI- 

■1 

J .03° 

fior. 
5 loi' • 
'^ lOO . 

90 

08 ■ 
i)-° ■ 

AjJm ^ 


TT 




1 


iCS 






J ; 


1— 


- 


u 


■j 


'r-i-: 




- 






;..;... 


— 


1 


1 


-I- 

: j :■ 


i 


n 


f 


FTl 


1 


/I 


?1 


. 






~E 


# 




-*•■: 










t-r— 




^ 


-^ 


-jr.: 




i 


v/^ 


P 


:j,] 


,j' 


A 




';:tv- 


^ 


:;:i.- 


- 


■_;:;: 


~ 


^ 












1 


• 


isL 


.4.:v 


1 


-- 


^ 


I'f li 


^ 


^ 


^ 


i 


- 




#« 


h 





^ 


;.:^ 


^ 


-^- 


- 


- 








,. . ; 


r^ 


fl \/ 




J 


0y 




tfbt 


^ 




~ 




r 












_t 


w 


- 


w- 








1 — — 






Aj 




^ 




::.:.: 








; : 
:1 






< 






*t- ■■ 


; 






I 










* 


-* 


- 














:■.■•-•.;. 






^^ 












w 






//I , 




/po\ 


I'i 




I'L 




46 




</v 




Vi 




/.., 




y»v 




7« 






T?H 












//I 


15. 


/a.« 










/«•> 


i« 


t'. 




Ka 




"15 


-^Vtt 




or. 




tr. 


A^ 




3C 


-q: 


?i 


-w 


', C>"- 


z'i 


TTT 


AV 


^^ 


iY 


»-rr 


^or 




t. . 


^^If,, ■ 


\z^ 


\ nf 1 










: <fi 1 ix 1 nr-T /t r - / i 7; i i 


ht^-ctDu, 


^i^ 


V" 


¥ 


>^? 


al/,' 


!i^ 


""3*7 


>•' 


1/ 


rcsn 


4 


f 


•i 


t 


yJ^l 






' I 


I-41' 

■-Vr 
\ I 

H 

i-57^ 


106* 
lOb- 
C; 10*« 
1 105° 
\- 102 
i lOl 
'^ IfXJ 
9!)- 

•)8 

o:" 

t 

Hftp * 






'1 




1 


1 






=1=; 


K 




1. ^ 


:;£ 


^•r 










;;:; 










■I:- 


t 


j 




- 










::■•;■; 




r i : 


li;: 


- 








— 








■ . ■ 


1 


1 




I 


If- 


^i;: 


H^. 








.::. ;: 




;■: 


■ 1 


t 


' 


1 






■i-- '1 


■A:'. 






:;::•. : .1 . ' 


. 


—" 


- 


■ '":: : 








1 

1 






-li 


IK 






; :■:- 


'. 


- ^;.l;.- ■ 










1 


^ 


. ,. 


— 












, 


ii 


^ 




n 






-| 


— 


.••-.v. 








« 


li 1 ifi 




n 




r 1 J 


A 


J| 


" 


.-<• ■ ; 1 






- 


h 


i 


^\ 


/ 


*y 


y li 


■rl 


■■i'i# 


JU 


J^ 


o 












V^i 


^1 i 


r^ 


(P.; 


▼ ; 


■ 1 w 1 1 ■ 


. ■;! - ' I- if 


1 


1 


1 


§\ 


kjj 






-i ■ 


' 


-r 


-- 


yf 


l/f V 


1 IT IjI 


l^i u 


1' 


\ 


tJ 


^ 


— 


^^ 


-H-L. 


f 


1 


, 


•■^-Mi- 




M 








». 


Av^ 


_^ 


___ 


__ 


~ 




t 


~ 


".; 






r 




"1 


L^ 






• 








f 














:_; 








1 
1 




...-; 


r 

r 




-_ 




















, 


a 








. 




/ft t- 




vt " 


10 e 




/»v'- 


7eJ - 


76 y 


li* 




1}" 




ifii 




no 




/vo 










1^ 


^7^^ 


^W 


AV 


zo 




'12- 

l^ - 


~r,l^'^ 


1^^ 


It' 


n^ 


lie 


l3C 


/3= 






— ' — 


' — i~ 


1 J 




li 


51' 






' iV 


Hr 




ff 


"2</ 


jn 




/v 




?i 




Ji^ 


-^ 


>-t 




^ 


_ 


— 






Ji 




^iL. 


.ii 


^^ 


^ 


L. 


■d^ 


^ 


^ 


^ 


-L 


jm. 


^ 


^ 


.— 


^ 


^^ 


-U. 





Prolonged typhoid.^showing typical high continued type in early stages passing through remittent 
to the intermittent form, and terminating fatally on the forty-fifth daj- with haemorrhage. 



116 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



runs a longer course on the average in tropical India than in temperate climates. 
This difference does not appear altogether strange when we take into account 
that during seven months of the year in Calcutta the mean temperature of the 
air is about 80° F. or over. Chart 12 shows a prolonged case terminating fatally 
on the forty-fifth day. 

THE COURSE AND TYPE OF THE TEMPERATURE CURVE.— For purposes 
of description the temperature curve of a typical case of typhoid fever has been 
divided up by Curschmann into the following stages. The step-hke rise, lasting 
usually three to five days, but sometimes extending to seven : the fastigium, or 
continued stage of high fever at about 103° to 104° F., with but slight diurnal 
variations within the limits of those of the normal temperature, and varying widely 
in its duration from a few days to three or four weeks ; and the final stage of steep 
curves by which the temperature gradually declines once more to the normal 
and not infrequently passes into a sub-normal stage during the early period of 
convalescence. This classical course is very far from being constant even in 
temperate cHmates, where wide departures from it are seen, while in the tropics it 
is the exception rather than the rule to meet with such a typical case. A study of 
these variations is of very great importance in the differentiation of typhoid from 
other tropical fevers, for I beheve that the course of the temperature, when rightly 
considered, is of the greatest diagnostic value, and will allow of an early recognition 
of a large proportion of cases, as will appear from the following analysis of my 
Calcutta series. 

THE PERIOD OF RISING TEMPERATURE.— This stage especially differs 
in India from the classical step-like rise. Only a few cases came under observation 
during the earhest period of the disease, but out of 6 cases admitted during the 
first two days of fever none showed a gradual rise of temperature, but in each it 
had already risen to from 103° to 105° F. Chart 13 illustrates the rapidity with 

Chakt 13 (Case 882). 




A short typhoid with abrupt initial rise of temperature to 105 on the first day. 
Widal positive to 1 in 100 on eleventh day. 



Xote the slow pulse. 



TYPHOID FEVER— EARLY TEMPERATURES 



117 



which the pyrexia may reach a high degree, for the patient had been in hospital 
for the treatment of a venereal bubo, with a normal temperature for ten days up 
to one day before his readmission for typhoid fever with a temperature of 103" 4°, 
which rose further to 105° four hours later, but ran a short and mild course with a 
positive Widal reaction up to 1 in 100 dilution. He gave a history of a rigor 
three hours before his second admission for typhoid. 

On the other hand Chart 14 shows the tjrpical step-like rise at the beginning 
of typhoid, although it is almost the only one in my collection. The patient was 

Chart 14 (Case 994). 



UayaVis. 


n 


^ 


3 




^ 


\ ^ 


V 


,t 


<? 


'f 




I 


r — j 


^2r" 


\ n /f4 




r- + - 


IOC' 


:';.::. 




■ ■ 1 ■ 












-^ 




— 


j_ ^_ 














.. 


:-;- 


i- 




; 


-Iq 






~ 






-^- 







i-4r 


5^ 104' - 
4 102- ■ 




———AH 


—'■ — {— -A 


/ 


P 


/ 


^ 


1 

1 




r 


r- 


1 


;t 


v^ 


■^ 


% 


^t 


e 


i 


k^ 


% 


i-594 


1 

99" ■ 
Xmui 
98- • 

BT' 


- :' 


7^ 








1 1 


1- 


-J_- 


r 


— 


- 


-'--f-- 


%.- 








■* 




:-. 


-!:^ 


'3: 


^38-5 

i 1 


^:U ■ 




i ^ 


m. 




:;--rE 




;:., 




;.:.;.;.■ 




■;t; 










: f. 








■■■-i'- 




h 




1 


1 








. 


■ j" 






















... 




-37' 












■ 


*" 






... 




■ 














- 












■ 


:m. ■ 


■F :,■'-[: 


\::Z. 


' 


\ 


r ' 


, 




. 






















. -.:.. 






: 


:..;:;'. 


.-i-.i-:i.': 


A ■":.- 












• 






.;:.:-: 






'■ 








: : 




rSG" 




■ 






I)nrefDis 




^6 


1 


7 




A 


I 


<i 


no 


_3J/' 


Irit 




>3 


5«* 




f 


a 


< 


; 


f7 


a 


A 




r-42= 


105- 
J ICH- 




- . ■ , 






'"■: 
















. ; .1 ; 














■■; 












i 




.:. 


















;; 






- i ■ ' 
























' 






■".+ 










: : 












vr'-. 




*v 






■:i.': 


: 


t- 














f\ 


tj 


\^ 


jkA 


i 




^ 




# 


J 


n 


^ 


-A- 


/I 


: 




"^ 




t 












lios'-^ 


^^1/ 


-^ 


1 


-V 


, 












— 


rVd" 1' 


f 102' • 
1 "-" 

*■- lOO- . 

91)- • 
OS' ■ 
I97. . 


-..-« 


y 


w 


^ 




\m 


^ 


k . 




:.---. 




V 


■ :-. 












\ 












f 


'; ■. 


V 




\/ 


..., 




1 


v 


^ 








- ^ 


f. 


■■ 




rt 




















»i 


V^ 


1+^ 


/ 




. '\ : 


A 






i 


■■.t-'. 






__ 


^ 








• 






.-__ 


—L 










H-bj- 






\ 




-r- 
















-r- 






-^ 




— 




— 


-r- 




• 1 




— « 


-— 


\H 


^ 


-37' 


■:£: 


I 


' 
















- f 






. i .. ■ ' ■ 




■ :■■ 












' 


■■..1 . 








: 








:..l; 








^ 






:!. 








J 


i 


—U. 












' 






rie-" 



Typical typhoid with step-like rise, higli continued pyrexia and remittent fall. 

admitted on the seventeenth day of his fever, but brought the earlier records of 
his temperature with him. 

Turning to the histories obtained of the onset of the disease we find the same 
tendency to a sudden onset of the pyrexia. Thus out of the last 58 cases in 
which the history was carefully recorded, in no less than 30 a sudden onset 
was noted, in 23 of which rigors were said to have preceded the rise of 
temperature. In the whole series in 32 per cent, a sudden onset was recorded, 



118 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



in 42 per cent, it was gradual, and the remaining cases were doubtful. In some 
further inquiry showed that the fever commenced with chilliness rather than 
an actual rigor, but this is also often the case in many fevers in the tropics, 
including malarial ones. The frequency of this sudden onset of the fever of typhoid 
in the tropics should be borne in mind as it may increase the difficulty of diagnosis 
in the early stages. In many cases, however, a typical history of gradual onset 
of the fever, preceded by headache and lassitude was obtained, and may be of 
material assistance in the diagnosis of typhoid from malaria and seven day fever, 
both of which almost always begin suddenly. 

THE STAGE OF CONTINUED FEVER.— Although the rise of temperature 
is so often at3rpical in the tropics, the period of high continued fever is usually 
quite characteristic and of great diagnostic value. By " high continued fever " 
I mean a temperature keeping persistently above 101° F. (apart from temporary 
faUs for an hour or two brought about by the apphcation of cold or powerful depress- 
ing antipyretic drugs such as antipyrin) and not varying over more than 2° F. for 
at least forty-eight hours, a four hourly temperature chart being kept. Thus it may 
vary between 101° and 103° or from 102° to 104°, or between intermediate points, 
but the diurnal variations do not range beyond 2° in the typical curve which I 
designate by the above term, and which is well illustrated by Chart 15 from 



Chabt 15 (Case 907). 




Typhoid showing typical high continued pyrexia and slow pulse. 

the tenth to the nineteenth day of the disease. The importance of this defini- 
tion is that I find this high continued type of fever is very common in tjrphoid, 
while it is rare in any other fever in the tropics which is Hable to be mistaken for 
typhoid. The last qualification is necessary to exclude such diseases as uncom- 
plicated lobar pneumonia, and the later characteristic stages of kala-azar, in which 
a similar type may occur, but these are usually readily differentiated from 
typhoid by other symptoms. 



TYPHOID FEVER— TYPES OF TEMPERATURE 



119 



Table XII has been prepared to illustrate the frequency with which this high 
continued t3^e of fever was met with in my typhoid series in cases admitted at 
different periods of the disease, for it is specially common in the difficult early stages, 
but more often absent in the later ones when the temperature is declining. The 
age has also been taken into account because of the weU known tendency for the 
disease to be milder and more remittent in children than in adults. 



TABLE XII.— THE FREQUENCY OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF TEMPERATURE 

CURVE IN TYPHOID. 







Adults. 




Children 




Total Cases. 






j 1 


i 

1 


II 
^■1 


High 
Continued. 

Remittent. 


. 4^ 


a 


o^ j 


Admitted first f C£ises 

ten days ( Percentage . 
Admitted after 1 Cases . 

tenth day (Percentage . 


55 
78-6 
11 
600 


12 
17-2 
10 
46-5 


1 

1-4 


2 

2-9 

1 

4-5 


22 4 
78-6 14-3 
2 4 
1 33-3 66-6 


2 
71 


|77 
78-6 
13 

46-4 

1 


21 ! 98 

21-4 

15 28 

53-6 


„, . , (Cases. 
Total cases i ^^ 

Percentage . 


66 

68-7 


22 
23-9 


1 
11 


3 
3-3 


' 24 8 
70-6 23-5 


2 
5-9 


90 
71-4 


36 126 
28-6 1 



The most important point brought out by this table is that almost four-fifths 
of the cases admitted within the first ten days of^ the fever showed the high con- 
tinued type of temperature curve. Further, the figures happen to be the same in 
the case of both adults and children, thus bearing out the conclusion already come 
to from the long duration of the pjrrexia that typhoid is a more severe disease 
among children in a tropical climate than it is in temperate Europe. 

On the other hand, in the much smaller series of cases admitted after the tenth 
day, only 50 per cent, of the adults and 33 per cent, of the children showed the 
high continued type of fever. Nevertheless, taking the whole series of 126 cases 
a httle over 70 per cent, showed this type, while it was usually apparent within a 
few days of admission, and for some time past a knowledge of this fact has proved 
of great value in actual practice in enabling cases of typhoid to be correctly diagnosed 
in a very early stage, and often at a time when the serum test gave negative results, 
although later on typical reactions were obtained. 

Among the charts not showing the high continued type the most frequent 
variation was a remittent curve in which the diurnal variation extended over 
more than 2° F. They include, firstly, cases in which the pjrrexia reached 104 
or 105, but showed a greater amplitude than in the continued type as defined above, 
and fall within Curschmann's " continuo-remittents." They were all typical severe 
typhoids, two of them terminating fatally, one of which is illustrated in Chart 
16, the typhoid bacillus having been cultivated from his finger blood taken in a 



120 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

Chart 16 (Case 13). 



B^lfo^Pl» 




c 


^ 


!*■ 


6" 


6 

■ v 


7 

"1 ■ 






/o 


,./l 


/a. 


'3 


' 


i* 


. 'r\ 


> 

i-39'l' 

r! 

■-11" 

rSe" 
^35° 


10«"- 
K)5°- 

1 108*- 
^•)0i°- 

lioi'- 

^^^ lOO°- 

99° 
fmnf 
98"- 

97° • 

JteSf> J 
Bonds' 


^ 


•.t ■ .-,■■ 










_^ 




^ 




;■.■.;- -J 


^- 


■.— 


li___. 




T" , 






— ' 


• 


-r — 


-<■■ 


,iC 1^ 


;"^ 




:..J-. 


_j^^^^ 


• 


If^ 


■ ;/ [1- ■ 


1- 


^ 


J 








.-t:- 


._:_i 


? 


T 


rr:: 


/iJX 




"'■:i 


1 


.._:.. 


* 


rr: 


-1 ■. 
^ J 






f^ 




Jdimmj 


/I 


7^hfJ> 


' 








-_ 


. 


'"*::: 


y 


/I 


lA 


^: 1 


Sj 


\f[f 


t 


14 


^mmvm: 


=EtSi. 


it' 


:-"'■:; 








-.■..;; 


:r: 


h4 f \ 


ifN 


!.. ;_ 


« 


:::i;- ' 


"".t[.^'. 




"?"']- 




-?^ 


'•___ 


—X- 


=i**»;^: 




L: 


. 1 


^-j 


--»..-. 


...i 


\j 11^ 


k ii 


¥ 




; : 


;'■! 


■ j: 


Ii: 


. t - 


f- 


r. "! 


:il 


. I 


■^^- 


mx 


-r 


! 


* 


• 


.; ■: 


li- 


V 


i.ir 


Sf 




-^i 




'4;^ 


' 1 




u 


"5"- 


...4.. 


•ivi 




;.!:; 

•::-|-;: 


.-t^ 


sir 


rt- 


;4- 


-J 


-t: 


"- 


:..'" 


4 




"t:: - p 
















-.:::: 




- 


■- 






1:- 








:;.j:.. 


■..;.. 


. \ ■ 


. 


I" 


1 








:•:,;■•;■■ 










. 1 










■ 




., .;... 


"1— 


I 


•f- 


, 












- 
















■■ 




:;t;; 




. 




r 




.. .;... 


' 




r 




H 


:-B 


'"r 


- r- 


' 






:'r- 


f ' • \ 


.If 


•■':-'i: 




J 






: . -r 




'"'." 


X 








. 


•'. 


;. 


.:[: 


t ■ 


r.nv. 








■I 




' 








ri 


- 


i'. 


■ 1 


^: 


r-f 


• [■-- 


.--.. 




f 








■4— ■ 










ii* 










7« 




7-+ 




7* 




*i 




fe« 




|04 




m5 


l»< 








' 














.,.- 


SO 








M 












ICO 


jiie 


14-0 


































^t 












19 




•9 






















-- 




^ 




»2 














ee 


b« 










. _ 


.^.^je. 


-^ 


.^ 


^ 


1,^ 




o 


„,,^ 


4 




iJS. 


-J. 




.i 


,3! . 




^^ 




. 


L„..L,-J 



Severe typhoid with high remittent pyrexia terminating fatally on the thirteenth day. Typhoid bacilli 
cultivated from finger blood on tenth day. 

sterile citrate tube. Secondly, there are the mUd remittent and abortive cases 
with a temperature declining below 101°, as in Chart 17 below. 

Chart 17 (Case 983). 



UarajJis 




9 


\ ^ 


/ 


p, 


1 1 


/ 


t^, 


/ 


13 




tv 


1 


J- 




\t 




7 


m 




ftf 


, 


U} 


^ 1 


-40- 




106°- 
105- 

J I08° • 
f 102" • 

1 ^°^° ■ 
■^ lOO". 




> 


fi. 














:■■" 




z.. 

-:r, - 


"-■w 


;:i: 








rr-1 
r:j.;:: 


r ■ 
















-I ;■■ 


•> 


1 
















--■; 






;;:;; 


..;;■: 






:;^ 


1 


ri 
















i 


'^i-' 














-.!:; 






'\ 




■:i:: 






.;:i - 












■v-l- 






-^ 


^^ 








;.±;:: 






":x.i 




l"-^- 












;£- 


-". ;- 


■:'':: 




M. 










\ 


A^ 


7 


".l... 


^ 




'k 


;-;•• 


iv: 


.V.J.'".'. 










■ r.v 


\-\ 


r*^ ..". 


■■-.■.'.. 




.-;. ;; 




'1 


... 1 ,. 














■:' 




\i 


% 


. A 








% 






;r- 




























:t" 


1 


■v.: 




X 




sA 


4<f 


^ 


. J 


:■•.'.. 




-V 






-V. 


















4.'- 






99° ■ 


'■¥': 




. ^-.. 


■J 












Vj 


M^ 


^ 


P^ 




--r. 













^r. 


■1 


■^ 


■ ■; ■ 


,r 


— 














\ 








_„ 


jE 




q 














^U 




98' ■ 


■ \: '■ 


- 




"~r~ 


^ 


~~v. 












1 




■ i 


b 


<i 




^ 




J 


\^ 


I 


f^ 


^ 


u' 


t^ 


n 




Hrsp " 


I'r. 




-:±. 


':.•"• 




■:.:i-. 


pr" 


: ;... 








.::; 


■-[": 










i> 


im 


V^ 










r 










yr^ 




f,» 




r» 


7C 




(7V 




<;<< 




i'j- 




Ht 




<-■' 




j\ 






r» 


v» 








%H 




»V 




io 


-rt 




c% 




6C 




CO 




v8 




,^4' 










r.y 


•f7 












2. 










/? 




^,'' 




to 




iV 




JL 




/« 




is- 






i.a ^■' 


14 








ii. 




.^2■ 




3lf 


ii 




»w 




t.% 




It 




2 « 




i* 








U' 


1^ 


io 
















t 






L_(i 




— 




:/ 




/ 




■■/ 


■ 


./ 




:/ 






.1 







Mild typhoid with low remittent fever and slow pulse ending on the fifteenth day. Widal positive 

1 in 100 on the ninth day. 

One case only showed a " low continued tjrpe," by which I mean a temperature 
curve with a diurnal amphtude not exceeding 2° F., but falling below 101° F. The 
importance of this distinction, which is an artificial one, is that this type is very rare 
in tjrphoid, but comparatively common in the earlier stages of kala-azar, which has 



TYPHOID FEVER— STAGE OF CONVALESCENCE 



121 



been so often erroneously diagnosed as typhoid. It is illustrated by Chart 5 
on p. 58 in an early stage of kala-azar. 

Lastly, but again very rarely, although it is somewhat more common in 
children than adults, a mild typhoid may show an intermittent curve nearly 
throughout the disease. Chart 18 illustrates this unusual form of the disease, 
which may easily be overlooked if a Widal's test be not done. 

Chart 18 (Case 984). 



Dar^M 


1 


I 


^^ 


/ 


'H- 


f 


/ 


6 


p 


,./» I/O 1 ru* \ •*• 1 j&tL I 


1 ! 1 




hi." 

i-40- 

i "1 

i-s8°| 




\ . 


. 






.,- 










1 

1 . 




■X 








".: 




■y^. 










-k 








-. ■ 












1 ; 












■■ ^ ■ 


Vr 








■■A-': 


.■.-:- 


■H " 


rl; 


L- 
■ 


■■-;-■ 




---;-;:■■ 


1,0-... 

^- l02" 

|ioi 

^5 lOCi- 

as 

07- 






•i: 






\ 








. 




: - !-^: 


'%:. 


[■ 






-i: 




-■-I 


• I 




-■ 






.L 


-^[ " 


-; ' 


'-.. 


■ ;:.: 










1 












■ ^- 








:.::. 














,...,., 


■ ,^'- 


^ 


\^ 


, .1.:: 














- 


■-: 




■;•-. 


;-r: 






-r 




Jy 


. 1 


■:i; 




.:--.- 


















\ 






i 


■ \' 
















.. , .. 




...... 






'-F 


i 
1 








p 






:V- 












A 










• 










-•!■■ 


, 












■■;" 


A\ ■ 






■-" t- 










V 


P> 


X& 


te 


J\t, 


/ 


k 




k 


1 


I" 


A 


-;:■ 


:;-': 


r 






-|- 




"t;: 


■::;., 


:"'• 


- - 


z 




hr^ 


L 


\KS 


Xl. 




!Q 


tor* 


-T 


.^ 


1^ 


,1^ 




IH^ 


\ . 


















w~ 












^5 


M 

■■■- 


11 


1~ 




-' ':" 








-r; 








■■'■■ 












_.... . 




^ 1 ■ 


1 








■•,:- 














, 




H 




i* 




i9 




at 






Ti^ 






























1 




«fr 




75^ 




*n. 






n 


"id 


1 


L^ 


-— 










I 










Aft 


>* 


r 


l*v* 


4a 

1 


H 


7. 


H 




±1. 


^y 


d 


2 


-j 


_JL • 


zj— 









^ 



Very mild typhoid with intermittent fever after the twelfih day, typical spots and a positive Widal 

to 1 in 40 on the twenty-fifth day. 

STAGE OF STEEP CURVES OR DECLINE OF THE TEMPERATURE.— This 
is the most variable stage in European typhoid both as to its duration and type, 
while it has little diagnostic importance. The main point to be noted is that in 
tropical typhoid this stage tends to be often unduly prolonged and to pass into 
an intermittent form lasting for days, as in Chart 24 p. 142. The very marked 
daily variations of 5° or more described by Curschmann in this stage, I have 
only once seen in a native woman, in whom no cause for it could be found, but 
who ultimately made a good recovery. The sudden decline of the temperature 
by crisis is occasionally observed in Europe, but I have only met with this once 
in a native on the eleventh day, the blood giving a serum reaction up to 1 in 100 
dilution, thus these puzzling variations would seem to be fortunately very rare. 



STAGE OF CONVALESCENCE. — After the decline of the temperature to normal 
Curschmann describes a stage of sub-normal readings between 96*8° and 97*6°, with 
but slight daily fluctuations, lasting for one and a half to two weeks, and followed 
by a rise again to the normal line. This stage is quite exceptional, in my experi- 
ence, in the tropics, and when it does occur its duration is quite short, usually 
only two or three days. As a rule, once the temperature has finally reached the 



122 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



normal, often after slight intermittent rises for several days, it keeps close to the 
normal line. Moreover, typhoid very rarely shows the prolonged low intermittent 
rises to 99° or 100° F. or more, which are so characteristic of kala-azar in the interval 
between the higher remittent paroxysms, as shown in Chart 2, facing p. 55, a 
point of great diagnostic value between early kala-azar and typhoid. 

Another exceptional feature of the convalescent stages of typhoid in the tropics 
is the occurrence of occasional high paroxysms preceded by rigors, and recurring 
every few days at irregular intervals. Sometimes these may be due to malaria 
complicating the disease, as in a case in which malignant tertian parasites were 
found accompanied by a large mononuclear increase, during the high continued 
fever of typhoid, and sixteen days after the temperature fell to normal a malarial 
paroxysm, rapidly yielding to quinine, appeared. In other cases, however, rigors 
and high paroxysmal fever during convalescence from severe typhoid may occur 
independently of malaria, and sometimes without any cause being found* Chart 
19 illustrates such a case, in which no malarial parasites could be found, even in 
a slide taken when no quinine had been given for several days, while there was some 
increase of the total leucocytes without any large mononuclear excess. Quinine, 
even hjrpodermically, had no effect, but ultimately the patient made a good recovery, 
although much anxiety was occasioned by this uncommon compHcation, the precise 
cause of which was never ascertained. 

RECRUDESCENCES AND RELAPSES.— In 5 cases after the temperature 
had declined by lysis almost to normal a recrudescence of the fever occurred. The 
temperature rose gradually once more to a considerable height, showing the high 
continued type in 3 and a remittent one in the other 2. In one case the 
recrudescence was due to eating a cake supplied by a parent, but in the other 4 
it was spontaneous, and the fever ran a prolonged course, its total duration being 
from thirty-two to fifty-eight days, but all of them eventually recovered. 

In 6 more cases actual relapses took place after the temperature had been 
normal for from one or two up to seven days, although in none of them had it reached 
a sub-normal point during the apyrexial interval, but usually rose to 99° in the even- 
ing ; a feature which is in accordance with Curschmann's experience in Europe. 
The total duration from the commencement of the primary rise to the final cessation 
of the fever varied from thirty-six to forty-two days in 4 of the cases, and was 
fifty-one to sixty-seven days respectively in the other 2, but aU of them even- 
tually made a good recovery, as is usually the case in Europe. One patient was 
also admitted diu-ing a relapse of a mild nature. The proportion of recrudescences 
and relapses in my series was 9*5 per cent, against 13'8 in Curschmann's much 
larger series, so that the long average duration of tropical typhoid is not due to 
excess of relapsing forms of the disease. 

MILDTREMITTENT and abortive CASES.— The last point regarding the 
temperature ciu^e which has to be considered is the very important one, from 
the diagnostic standpoint, of the frequency of mild remittent and abortive cases 
which are so liable to be overlooked in a tropical climate. 



Chart 19 (Case 510). 




Severe typhoid with prolonged high continued fever, followed by intermittent paroxysms with rigor 

of uncertain origin. 



128 



124 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



Mild remittent cases of typhoid include those in which the diurnal variations 
of the temperature extend over more than 2°r., but in which it does not remain 
above 101° for two or more days, in which they differ from the high remittent type 
usually seen in severe cases. It is just this class of low remittent and intermittent 
typhoids which are so difficult to recognize in the tropics, as they may run a very mild 
course with few if any characteristic symptoms. Such cases formed 16 per cent, of 
the total, in addition to which there was one of low continued fever, and two other 
abortive ones, making 178 per cent, in all of atypical cases. Chart 20 illustrates 

























Chart 


20 


(Case 


860). 






















MV4Bli. 


rz 


g"" 


II 


T 


br 


■^ 


■"V 


^ 


-t- 


/ 


fe_ 




N 


> 


^ 


;..r_-; 


<» 


ppE 


-i^;^ 






E 


I05' 

1 >o'* ■ 

"f lOZ" ■ 
1 lOl* ■ 
"5 lOO'- 

99'- 
Xnml 


T 


F 


-JIz: 


HE 




i ' 




i 




^ 


Efr 


^ 




-5- 


3i 


zt:. 




:3;.. 


i 




.::4-: ' 
trrn 


:■:.—:. 


r-l-i.r- 




EE 


r4l' 
1-40° 




[ 




■'-'":' 


h^. 


A 


;:.E 


r|r 


r=~ 


Er 


"t:: 


^ 


rJ~ 


^ 


-:e 


^ 


;..•"■ 


"*~" 


^ 


~JI 


^ 


H:: 


--£_•--, 




1-58=1 

4 
1-57 = 

j-36' 


JX 




N 


ifs 


m 


ijE 


■■■— 


^- 


n 


1 n 


-^ 


-f 


rl; 


E^^:. 


r£ 


EE: 


ititr." 


•* 








Hy 


■;.!:^::^: 


wm 


% 


L-J 


P 


j^S' 


1 






=tfe- 




■:3r:: 


~H 


r 


" : -1 -- " 


i 


-iV-v-' 


J 


\ 


■■?; ::: 


X" 


1 




^ 


^ 


E 




1 


IP 


^ 


i 


^iZiif: 


;ii»^--i^ 


^ 


-4^-^ 


OS*- 
97» - 


•U 


'■'■'"'- 


'.^:^ 


, ■ 


S 


-';'-- 


:-H 


=!r. 


"t" 


=ir 





=±r 


ii3= 


^ 


'4 


:f. 


iSr 


i 


1 


i 


;:m^:. 


IP 


I— - 


- I ■ ■ 


' 


;__. 








■=^ 


--'■■■ 


=; 


- 




-:^ 


i— ■ 


■•—■ 




- 


" 


-H- 


____ 








. l. - 


' 


• 4- --■ ■ 
1 












































1 


1 














































; 


! 


t 


















































1 a 


^_ 


.JL 


^^ 




^_ 


.a_ 




/ 


__ 


_^ 


/ 


_J 


._ 


3 




: / 


,^_ 


/ 


^^^ 


1 


}\ 


-0— 


■ /I . 



^lild typhoid with low remittent fever. Widal positive 1 in 100 on the fourteenth day. 



the low remittent tjrpe of fever, while one which was intermittent after the first 
day in hospital is shown in Chart 18, p. 121, Widal reactions in dilutions of 1 in 
100 being obtained in each, while weU marked typhoid spots were present in the 
last. The duration of the fever was on the average shorter in this series than is 
usual in tropical typhoid, although not very markedly so, for in half of them the 
fever lasted over three weeks, while in only 3 did it last under nineteen days. 
Moreover, 13 out of the 20 cases were admitted within the first ten days of the 
fever, so that in the majority of them the low remittent type seen was not due to 
their having come under observation in a late stage of the disease, although in 
the remaining third this may have been the case, for in some a history of continued 
fever before admission was obtained. The ages were also fairly uniformly distri- 
buted, only 4 of them being children up to 15 years. In proportion to the 
total number of cases in each class these mild cases were twice as frequent among 
immigrants as among Indian born Europeans, in spite of a shght excess of children 
among the latter, so that typhoid appears, if anything, to be shghtly less virulent 
among immigrants than in Indian born Europeans. 



TYPHOID FEVER— ABORTIVE CASES 



125 



ABORTIVE cases are those in which the fever does not exceed fifteen days 
in duration, but they formed only 39 per cent, of the total number, excluding fatal 
cases, being thus decidedly rare. Chart 13, p. 116, of a case admitted on the first 
day of the fever is a good example, and the shortest case I have met with. Another 
very definite case, shown in Chart 21, is that of a girl aged 15 admitted on the 
eighth day of a remittent fever, which terminated on the fourteenth day, no suspi- 
cion of typhoid having occurred during this time. On obtaining positive Widal 
reactions with blood of a small brother and sister of hers, who had been admitted 
into another ward under a different physician, I tested this patient's blood also and 
found both a positive Widal reaction up to 1 in 200, and 50 per cent, of lymphocytes 
with only 4*8 per cent, of large mononuclears. This result was obtained just in 
time to save her being put on a soHd diet very soon after her temperature reached 
normal. A few days later another brother and sister were admitted for typhoid, 
all five patients coming from one house. In these mild cases a marked lymphocyte 













~ 












Chart 


21 


(Case 


15) 


























Dariflhs 




^ 




*?" 




fi^- 


II 


,f 


*_ 


_4 


2 


i 


L, 


/ 


r 


"7 


r* 


"1 


r- 


-rr^ 


"7 


T 


TE 


IT 


■^ 


iZ- 


L4l« 
1-40- 

* 
^58"! 

\ 1 


106' 


.Is 




rSf 








:-':J"l. 


/-• ■ 








- 














—. 




- 






-~ 




r i 




t 




f 




* 




.. .^... 


. 


;!•■ 


■ I-" 




: i' 


. 


,' 


:X- 






_'_ 


zr 


r^,- 


-; . ' 


::i : 




...t:; 


"i- 


-:- 


;4~ 


f 102° 

*■* too- . 

08' 
07« . 


-* 

IT 

} 




V 






- 1 


i-: 


: 1 


■. .t". 


W. 


J--' 


:-t 


^ 


^ 


■:.p 




-•-1 


4 




3- 






.'i'v. 


- 






V. 


4. 


\ 


\f 


h4 


^ 










;:r 


r+-j 


: 




-" 




- 


-_ 


' L 


:e 


i-- 














t 


■■;::■ 




\ 


1 




Ik 


h 




■ :- 




^ i . 






:::±- 


[ 


• 


' 


..... - 


'.. c*. 


r 


■_-_ 






.; -.. 


^ 




.;1. 


— ii- 




^ 




" '~ 




."!■.': 


~~ 




~: 


■:.' ' 


T " 




":ir.: 




■*" 


:..;:;". 




\ 


■t'L 


f 


■■# \^-:-: 




"*" 


-! 


""1 " 


— 1- - 


•'••i 


T 




- 


-v' 


■ ".'" 


i~ 


■ * . 






—z' 


.- 


-* 


, .-I- . 


J 1 


m- 


- 


"7.- 


; 




r 




w 


f: 


S 


-T- ■ 


\\ 


T 


■-• 


. 


-| • 


A 










■ ''■" 


* 


- 


J" 










-t. 


i ' 


' 


.'-"-y'J. 


^i; 




* 


" "Jr 






1 


Pf 




A 


:.-X. 


- 




~ 




-:- . 




■ - 




i* 




■:. 


-. 




n 


-r- 


^ ■ - 






-^ 




_« 




-^B 


J_. 


'~\ 


4^ 


N 


HI 


A^ 


-g 






^ 


bu. 


Ju, 


^ 


^ 


p- 


.^ 




— 


' ; ' 




£;• 


l; 


' 






T 


r 


^ 


n 


r 




^ 


furv 


1^ 


jr 


5 


t 


/ 


^ 




,v 






T 


' 


r\ 


If 


^ 


\ 




- . . 


.. , - 


/ 




■;_;: ; 


-t 




" 




_ 














i ■■ ' ^1 


r 








■ '• 


■L 






- 




_ 


■ I 


L 


/ 






.:_ 





Abortive typhoid not suspected until a brother and sister were admitted for the disease. Widal 

1 in 100 on the fifth day of pyrexia. 



increase without any excess of large mononuclears is often early present, and should 
lead to a Widal test being performed. Two of these cases showed the low remittent 
tjrpe of fever, but the other 3 showed a high continued typhoid type, only of 
unusually short duration. 

These mild remittent and abortive cases are exceedingly difficult to diagnose 
in the tropics without a blood examination, and have doubtless very often been 
returned as " remittent fever," which has long been one of the official synonyms 
for malaria, and as " simple continued fever," under which doubtful fevers of all 
kinds are too often entered, whatever the type of temperature may be, although 
I know of no definite fever to which this term might be suitably applied, unless 
it be the more continued types of the seven day fever described on p. 306. 
The frequently high mortality among cases returned as typhoid in the British Army 



126 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

in India, as compared with that of the present series verified by serum tests, points 
to many of the milder forms of true typhoid being diagnosed as some fever other 
than typhoid, an error which also falsifies the returns under " remittent " and 
" simple continued fever." The more general use of the Widal test in India 
at the present time, if carefuUy and repeatedly carried out, should lead to more 
accurate data on the subject being soon obtained. 



ANALYSIS OF THE SYMPTOMS OF TYPHOID FEVER 

HISTORY OF ONSET AND PRODROMAL SYMPTOMS.— Although, as akeady 
mentioned, the temperature more frequently rises rapidly with chills or rigor in 
the tropics than in temperate climates, nevertheless a typical history of preceding 
lassitude, headache and loss of appetite and gradual onset was noted in over half 
the cases, and is of considerable diagnostic value, especially in differentiating the 
early stages of typhoid from seven day fever, which almost invariably has a sudden 
commencement. Aching pains in the back and extremities are not infrequently 
complained of in early typhoid, but are not of as severe and sudden a character 
as in seven day fever. Epistaxis was only noted in 3 per cent, of this hospital 
series, while it is not uncommon in the later stages especially of kala-azar. Lassi- 
tude may also occur for a day or two only, as a rule, before the onset of malarial 
fevers. Repeated chilliness may also be noted in cases of typhoid with a gradual 
onset, so that on the whole the prodromal symptoms of the disease are of less 
diagnostic value in typhoid in the tropics than in temperate cKmates. 

GENERAL APPEARANCE.— The flushed face, apathetic look, low dorsal 
decubitus, and the thickly coated tongue, often with red edges and tip are present 
in aU but the mildest cases of typhoid. They present a marked contrast to the 
comparatively shght general symptoms in the early stages of kala-azar during 
high remittent fever. They may, however, be closely simulated by the more 
continued type of seven day fever with flushed face and duU look and thus lead 
to typhoid being suspected, although the sudden severe pains and severe frontal 
headache, together with the saddle-back remission just when the steady rise of 
temperature of typhoid is to be expected, will usually enable the seven day fever 
to be early recognized. 

THE PULSE. — ^After the temperature curve, perhaps the most important 
aid in the differentiation of tjrphoid in the tropics is the pulse rate, which is well 
known to be disproportionately slow as compared with the degree of pyrexia in 
this disease, a feature which is, however, less marked in women and children than 
in the case of men. Table XIII shows the pulse rates in those of my Calcutta typhoids 
in. which it has been sufficiently frequently recorded, divided in accordance with 
whether the rate did not exceed 100 per minute for two or more consecutive days, 
while the temperature reached 103° F., or higher, or whether it was over that rate. 



TYPHOID FEVER— PULSE RATE 



127 



TABLE Xin.— PULSE RATES IN TYPHOID WITH A TEMPERATURE RISING TO 

103° OR OVER. 





Pulse not over 100 
throughout. 


Pulse not over 100 
for two or more days. 


Pulse over 100 through- 
out during high fever. 




No. 


Percentage. 


No. Percentage. 


No. 


Perceuttkge. 


Men 

Women 

Children .... 


22 




36-6 


20 
2 



33-3 
111 


18 
16 
27 


300 

88-9 

1000 



These figures are in agreement with European experience both as regards the 
frequency of a pulse relatively slow as compared to the temperature, in typhoid, and 
its less incidence in women and children than in men, although this later feature 
is more marked in the women of my series than I had been led to expect from 
the statements in European Uterature. That in children a slow pulse is rare during 
typhoid is well known, but its great rarity in adult females is worth bearing 
in mind, as it makes the pulse rate of much less diagnostic importance in tropical 
cases of typhoid when dealing with both women and children. The fact that as many 
as 70 per cent, of the male cases showed a pulse not exceeding 100 during pyrexia 
reaching over 103° F., for two or more days, most frequently in the early difficult 
stages of the disease, is of great diagnostic importance, because such a relatively 
slow pulse is rare in those other fevers which are ha ble to be confused with typhoid, 
with the single exception of the seven day fever as described on page 301 ; and it is 
to be remembered that this disease only exceptionally shows the high continued type 
of ther pyrexia of typhoid. On the other hand, in severe malarial remittent fevers, 
whose temperature curves alone in any way resemble typhoid, the pulse is almost 
invariably rapid and usually well over 100 during high pyrexia. In Malta fever, 
again, Hughes states that in the severe typhoid-like cases the pulse is commonly 
rapid. In the early stages of kala-azar with high remittent or continued fever, the 
pulse is usually rapid during high fever even in men, although Chart 8, p. 61 is an 
exception in this case ; the pulse was slow all through, and I have one other chart 
showing a high continued fever with a slow pulse at the beginning of this disease, 
in which, however, the blood count enabled me to correctly diagnose the case, 
before any typical symptoms were present. 

A combination of a slow pulse with a high continued temperature curve is 
especially diagnostic of typhoid fever, while these features are most commonly 
found in the early stages, when the diagnosis is most difficult, and their conjoint 
occurrence is almost a certain indication of typhoid. 

A pulse which persistently rises to over 100 a minute in typhoid in men is 
of bad prognostic significance, for out of 13 such cases 5 died, in 3 of whom this 
rapidity of the heart was apparent before the general condition had become grave. 
Dicrotism of the pulse is also frequent in typhoid in the tropics, but it is not peculiar 



128 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

to this fever, and is often absent in the early stages, so is not of much diagnostic 
value. 

THE HEART. — The tendency of the first sound of the heart to become short 
and faint in typhoid is well known, and the diagnostic import of this symptom in 
India was pointed out by G. H. Young in 1887, and may be regarded as an indication 
for cardiac stimulants, especially during very hot weather. 

THE LUNGS. — The frequency and diagnostic importance of the presence of 
physical signs in the lungs, especially a dry congestive affection of the smaller 
bronchi, is fully recognized by writers on t3rphoid in temperate chmates. Table 
XIV shows the affections of the lungs met with in the Calcutta series. 

TABLE XIV.— LUNG COMPLICATIONS IN TYPHOID IN THE TROPICS. 



Normal on admission 

Bronchial rales, etc., present 

Pneumonic consolidation 


72 
40 
12 


58 1 per cent. 
32-2 
9-7 


Total lung complications 


52 


41-9 per cent. 



Thus, nearly half the cases showed some lung compUcation, although in many 
of them the condition of this organ had only been noted on admission, so that 
there can be no doubt that if the physical signs at different periods of the fever 
are regularly recorded, the proportion showing bronchial congestion would be still 
larger as in Europe. The pneumonia was chiefly of the hj^ostatic type affecting 
the bases of the lungs in the more severe and frequently fatal cases. Broncho 
and lobar pneumonia were also met with, the former occasionally occurring early 
in such a manner as to overshadow for a time the tjrphoid symptoms, but the pro- 
longed course of the p3n'exia, extending much beyond seven days, led to a suspicion 
which was confirmed by positive Widal tests for typhoid. In one case pleurisy 
was present in addition, and in another fatal general mihary tuberculosis supervened 
on an attack of tjrphoid in a patient in whom tubercle was suspected on admis- 
sion. Another case of great interest had been sent into hospital for liver abscess, 
as he showed some enlargement of that organ together with signs of pleurisy at 
the right base. Leucocytosis was found to be absent, while a positive Widal up 
to a 1 in 100 dilution was obtained and typhoid diagnosed. An exploring needle 
revealed only pleuritic fluid, and on the patient's death the diagnosis of typhoid 
and the absence of hver abscess, was confirmed post mortem {see Chart 22). 

The presence of physical signs of bronchial congestion with little or no sputum 
is considered by Curschmann to be very constant in typhoid, and of a specific 
nature. Its frequency in this disease in the tropics is, therefore, of great importance, 
because most other tropical fevers which resemble tj^phoid rarely show this comph- 
cation. Thus, lung signs were only found in 4 per cent, of my seven day fever 
cases, while I find it is also very unusual in the earlier typhoid-like stages of kala- 
azar, although the terminal ones are frequently compUcated by pneumonia and 



TYPHOID FEVER— DIGESTIVE SYSTEM 



129 



I 



phthisis. On the 
ther hand, both bron- 
chitis and hypostatic 
congestion of the lungs 
are common in severe 
prolonged Malta 



Chart 22 (Case 877). 



or 



fever according 
Hughes. 



to 



VarftJJii 


"!F" 


"TT" 


"T7" 


VT 


"TT" 






o^s 


1-41° 
^-tO" 

i 1 

r57° 

h 


106'- 
105° 


1 






. 


■::yh-: 


1 - : 




' 




I 






- 




' _ 


-f 


-::... .;■':;■. 




::.i;: 




r 


t 


> 104' 

1 * 

1 lOS" ■ 

a 
|ioi». 

"^ ioo°. 

98° - 
97' ■ 








- 




-- : 


^•lE:^r. 


v.-;-.- 




- f 


_^_ 


--I. 




.-i:: 


-V 


~\ 


-^-' 


M 


- — 


. Z- 


rE 


...... 


.:-i~: 


(^ 




-^ 


.- 


.d 


k' - 


_•:;::: 


< : 


W( 


. 1 


:mi^ 


s^,-^ 


i 




t- 


I 


Vf 


:ir\;-/-' 


\r. 


ipi 


^ 


u 


V 


■'l- 




I 


Vh 


1 

I-" 


z\ ■ 


rr-j: : 


r-;- 


d^: 


".:! 
-J::: 


F 


kif 




:--'-: 


L 




1 : 


.'' 


1^7;- 


.--'- 






.-■• 


-S 


■:.-.|;. 


- .—1 


; r: 


: 


■-■■ 


-M^: 


— I -1 


—i 


_|^*_l- 


■ 


--f— 


_ ;._, 


- 


...<^._ 


....! 


- 


:-H-:- 


-■i--t:^| -■ 




-» — 




T 


.d- 


rj- 


~ t" 


-f- 






WrA 


--^ 




_" 


-n — : 


-:-. 


■-i: 


r_b 


- 


:-fv. 


;vE 


\' 


- 


rT:v. 




96 


~'~ 


di{ ■ 


• o» 






'- 


TiT" 




l'^'^ 






•ff 


|98 


loe 


i ..4 


loa 


;*28 


iise 






so 


JO ! 


2« 


is 


23\ 


as i 


'38 1 


^^ 


^^ 


2£ 










--Uli 





Patient admitted for liver abscess. Blood examination showed only 
5,250 leucocytes and positive Widal reaction to 1 in 100. The 
presence of tj^hoid with right basal pleurisj', but healthy liver, 
verified post mortem. 



THE DIGESTIVE 
SYSTEM. — The 
TONGUE and mouth 
are often dry in an 
early stage of typhoid, 
but the conditions 
met with are variable. 
In about one-third of 
the Calcutta cases fur- 
ring in the centre with 
red tip and edges 
was noted, while in 

another third fairly uniform coating was observed. In the remaining cases 
the very foul and often cracked tongue of severe tjrphoid was present. On 
the whole the changes are not of much diagnostic value, for the red edged variety 
is very common in seven day fever, while the uniform furring is nearly constant 
in malaria, and not uncommon in kala-azar. The early stages of the latter disease, 
however, may not infrequently display a nearly clean tongue with persistent high 
fever, and very rarely show the dry cracked organ of severe typhoid. 

SICKNESS. — As in European experience vomiting was not very common in 
my tjrphoid cases, having only been noted in one-fourth of all cases, in several of 
these only after taking medicine. The only case in which sickness was very 
marked was one of perforation of the small intestine. It is also rare in early 
kala-azar, but very common in malaria, and fairly so in seven day fever. 

THE BOWELS. — Table XV shows the state of the bowels in the Calcutta 
typhoid cases subdivided into (1) those with diarrhoea throughout ; (2) those 
with transient diarrhoea, and (3) those with normal or constipated stools 
throughout : Curschmann's figures being also given for comparison. 

Here once more the data derived from my small series of cases agree very 
fairly with those of Curschmann's extensive statistics of typhoid in Germany, 
and illustrate once more the fact that typhoid in the tropics differs in no essential 
feature from the disease in temperate climates. In only one-fourth of the total 
cases was persistent diarrhoea present, the stools then being commonly of the typical 
pea-soupy character, yet no less than two-thirds of the deatlis occurred among 

9 



130 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

TABLE XV.— THE BOWELS IN TYPHOID IN THE TROPICS. 





Calcutta Series. 


Cnrschmann's 13 

years' Leipsic 

cases. 




Total 
Cases. 


Per- 
centage. 


Children. 


Per- 
centage. 


Total 
Cases. 


Per. 
centage. 


Cases. 


Per- 
centage. 


Diarrhoea throughout . 
Transient diarrhoea . 
Normal or constipated 


33 

48 
48 


25-6 
37-2 
37-2 


5 

8 

16 


17-2 
27-6 
55-2 


14 
4 
3 


66-7 
190 
14-3 


480 
694 
452 


29-5 
42-7 

27-7 


Total . . . . . 


129 


29 




21 









this class of cases, showing that diarrhoea throughout the disease is of specially 
bad prognostic import. The remaining three-fourths of the cases are equally 
divided between the class with occasional or transient diarrhoea, and those with 
normal or constipated motions throughout, constipation being far more frequent 
than normal stools. There was no appreciable difference in the death rate of these 
two last classes. The cases occurring in children up to 15 years of age are also 
shown in a separate column, from which it appears that persistent diarrhoea is 
specially rare among them, while over half showed constipation throughout. This 
is in accordance with the comparative mildness and low death rate of typhoid in 
children. 

THE ABDOMEN. — One of the most important features of typhoid in the 
tropics, as elsewhere, is the state of the abdomen, which it is essential to watch 
closely day by day. The following were the conditions noted in Calcutta. Dis- 
tension of the abdomen was recorded in no less than 77 per cent., while in 32 per 
cent, it was of a specially marked degree. In 8 per cent, there was pain in the 
abdomen, and in 7 per cent, more either tenderness or gurgling was noted in the 
right iliac fossa, leaving only 8 per cent, in which no abdominal symptoms had 
been described in the clinical records, and in nearly aU these only the condition 
on admission had been recorded, but it may have been present to some extent 
later in some of them. Thus, we find that some abdominal signs are nearly invariably 
present in the course of typhoid fever, while they are commonly a very prominent 
feature of the affection. Gurgling in the right ihac fossa was seldom noted in 
this series because it was rarely sought for, this symptom being so often detected 
in other conditions that it has little or no diagnostic value in typhoid, indeed 
it has always appeared to me to be most dangerous to attempt to eHcit it, 
when we know that nothing but the thickness of the peritoneal coat at the base 
of an ulcer may be saving the patient from a fatal perforation. 

The great diagnostic importance of even slight abdominal distension in typhoid 
in the tropics depends on the rarity of this symptom in other fevers which may 
closely resemble it. Thus, I have met with sUght abdominal distension in only 
3 cases of kala-azar seen within the first two months of the fever, when alone 
it at all closely resembles typhoid, and in these it was very slight. It is also an 



TYPHOID FEVER— ABDOMINAL SYMPTOMS 131 

uncommon symptom, apart from dysenteric complication, in the later stages. 
In Malta fever Hughes states that tympanites is a rare symptom and seldom marked, 
although epigastric tenderness is not uncommon. In relapsing fever epigastric 
tenderness, but not general distension, is frequent. In seven day fever, however, 
some degree of abdominal distension occurred in nearly one-fifth of my cases, and 
it was the seat of pain in as many more, but this is rarely very marked or persistent. 

THE LIVER is only occasionally slightly enlarged in typhoid in temperate 
climates, but in nearly one-fourth of my Calcutta series some degree of increase 
in the size of this organ was detected. It was nearly always slight in degree and 
but seldom tender, while no serious affection of the liver was met with. 

THE SPLEEN. — Great stress is rightly laid on the diagnostic importance 
of enlargement of the spleen in typhoid in temperate chmates. Curschmann 
found this physical sign in from 75 to 80 per cent, of his cases by percussion, while 
in his large Hamburg series the organ was palpable below the costal margin in 34 
per cent., some degree of enlargement being not uncommonly detected by the 
end of the first week of the fever. In the tropics enlargement of the spleen is so 
frequently produced by malaria, kala-azar, Malta and relapsing fevers, that this 
symptom loses much of the diagnostic value pertaining to it in Europe. 

In the Calcutta series, as a rule, only such degrees of enlargement as allowed 
of the organ being palpated below the ribs were recorded, and in 32 per cent, of the 
cases the spleen reached this size ; this is in agreement once more with Cursch- 
mann's figure for a similar condition. In five cases the organ extended 2 or 3 ins. 
below the costal margin, but in no case was the extreme enlargement to the navel 
or beyond met with, which is so frequent, even in fairly early cases of kala-azar : 
an important point of distinction between the two diseases. In seven day fever 
the spleen was only palpable in from 2 to 7 per cent., so that enlargement of the 
organ is in favour of typhoid as against seven day fever. With these exceptions 
the size of the spleen in typhoid is of little diagnostic value in the tropics. 

THE URINE. — In temperate climates typhoid usually shows a high coloured 
urine with a specific gravity of over 1,020, while albumen was found by Cursch- 
mann in from 15 to 20 per cent., and by Osier in 74 per cent., including traces 
detected by dehcate methods. In the Calcutta series the data on this point are 
incomplete, the urine having in many cases only been examined on admission. 
Albumen was found in about one-sixth of the cases, but the only one in which it 
was extensive was complicated by Bright's disease. 

THE DIAZO REACTION has also been too much neglected in the tropics, 
for although it certainly occurs in many other conditions besides typhoid fever, 
yet it is so nearly constant in the latter disease that a negative result goes far towards 
excluding that affection. In 1894 Tull- Walsh carried out this test in a number 
of typhoid and " remittent " fevers in Calcutta and came to the conclusion that 
it was of little diagnostic value, but a further series of cases with control Widal 



132 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

and blood tests with our present knowledge would very possibly yield more valuable 
results. The diazo reaction is certainly frequently absent in early cases of kala- 
azar, as well as in malarial fevers, but data are not at hand to show the frequency 
with which it may occiu* in tropical fevers other than typhoid. Bassett-Smith 
advises this test to be performed in the following way. 

Solution A. 50 cc. hydrochloric acid diluted to 1,000 cc, and then saturated 
with sulphanih'c acid. Solution B. 0*5 per cent, solution of sodium nitrite. Imme- 
diately before use mix 1 part of B with 40 parts of A. Add to the urine an equal 
quantity of the mixture of A and B, and then shake to form froth. Run a little 
strong ammonia down the side of the tube to form a colourless layer on the top. 

A carmine ring above the urine, with pink froth, constitutes a positive reaction. 
An orange ring, with yellowish froth, an indefinite one ; and a yellow ring with 
no change in the colour of the froth, a negative one. If in doubt, pour the whole 
on to a white dish with some water in it. A salmon red colour means a positive, 
and an orange only a negative reaction. 

COMPLICATIONS OF TYPHOID IN THE TROPICS 

HAEMORRHAGE FROM THE BOWELS.— The most frequent and grave 
complication met with in the Calcutta series was undoubtedly haemorrhage from 
the intestines. In both Curschmann's Leipsic cases and Osier's Baltimore it 
was met with in 6 per cent, of the total cases, although the formei WTiter states 
that in individual outbreaks he has met with it in as large a proportion as 10 to 
14 per cent. In the small Calcutta series haemorrhage occurred in 17 per cent., 
excluding two in which only a trace of blood was detected, as such cases are not 
included in Curschmann's figures. This great frequency of haemorrhage in the 
tropics may in part be due to the greater severity of the disease, as evidenced by 
the longer average duration of the fever curve which has been aheady pointed out. 
Another possible factor is a greater variation in the coagulability of the blood 
in typhoid in a hot climate, for the opposite variation of increased coagulability 
leading to thrombosis was also unusually frequent in Calcutta. 

As, according to Wright, both these comphcations are preventable and 
haemorrhages are specially fatal, the occurrence of this comphcation deserves 
close study. As the loss of blood varies greatly in amount, I have divided my cases 
into two classes in accordance with whether the haemorrhage was sufficient to materially 
depress the temperature or quicken the pulse, or whether blood was only detected by 
examination of the stools and no serious constitutional disturbance was caused. The 
former more severe degree occurred in 13 cases, 7 of which terminated fatally, just 
one- third of the total deaths being due to haemorrhages from the bowel. In 6 more 
the less serious degree of malaena occurred, none proving fatal, so that the mortality 
of both classes combined was 7 out of 22 cases, or 32 per cent., which differs but 
shghtly from Ciu*schmann's estimate of the deaths at 20 to 30 per cent. He also 
points out the rarity of this complication in children, all my cases occurred in persons 
of over 15, except two in children of 11 and 13 years of age respectively, in one 
of whom it proved fatal. 



TYPHOID FEVER— HAEMORRHAGE 



133 



If serious haemorrhages in typhoid are due to a preventable reduced coagula- 
bility of the blood, as maintained by Wright — and the occurrence of purpuric 
haemorrhages at the same time as that from the bowel in two of my cases would support 
his contention — then it becomes a matter of great importance to ascertain if this 
complication is associated specially with any particular class of cases. A careful 
examination of my notes shows that such is the case, for on working out the fre- 
quency of diarrhoea among them I found that every patient but two had shown 
looseness of the bowels at some stage of the disease, while no less than 1 1 (including 
8 out of the 13 severe ones) had suffered from diarrhoea throughout the disease, 
while only two showed constipation throughout, in one of which haemorrhage 
was slight. When we remember that only 25 per cent, of the total cases showed 
persistent diarrhoea, while 37*5 per cent, showed constipation throughout, then 
it becomes clear that there is a marked association between intestinal haemorrhage 
and looseness of the bowels in typhoid in the tropics, both being dependent on 
severe local lesions in the ileum. The importance of the recognition of this relation- 
ship is obvious, for it is specially in cases with marked diarrhoea that the coagula- 
biUty of the blood should be most closely watched for delayed action, and appropriate 
action taken to prevent the impending calamity by the means referred to on p. 143. 

In this connexion the stage of the disease when haemorrhages are most frequent 
is of importance. Curschmann met with this complication within the first two 
weeks in 30 per cent., when it may be copious, although it must come from the 
swollen Peyer's patches, as sloughing will not by that time have taken place. In 
the remaining 70 per cent, the haemorrhages occurred in the third week or later. 
In only 3 of the 22 Calcutta cases did malaena occur during the first two 
weeks, and in 2 of these it was slight. In the third week this symptom was met 
with in 10 cases, 8 of which were severe ; in the fourth week there were 4 cases, 
2 being severe ; and at a still later date 2 cases on the thirty-third and forty-sixth 
day respectively, the later being fatal. In the remaining 2 the date was doubtful, 
1 fatal one being admitted late in the course of the disease without any clear 
history being obtainable. In all but 2 of the severe cases, then, the haemorrhage 
occurred during the third or fourth weeks, when the sloughs would be separating, so 
that the coagulability of the blood should be especially examined at that period for 
delayed clotting, as this predisposes to serious haemorrhages. 



THROMBOSIS. — The opposite condition of increased coagulability of the 
blood predisposing to thrombosis is a much rarer complication of typhoid in tem- 
perate cUmates than is haemorrhage. Murchison stated that it occurred in but 
1 per cent, of t3rphoid fevers, while Curschmann and Osier in Nothnagel's encyclo- 
pedia do not give the exact proportion in which they met with it. This complication 
appears to be much commoner in the tropics than Murchison 's figure (if the smaU 
Calcutta series can be taken as any evidence on the point), for in them it occurred 
seven times in 129 cases, or 5*4 per cent. Sir Joseph Fajn-er called attention to 
the frequency of pulmonary thrombosis after severe operations in the tropics, 
and the same tendency may show itseK in the greater frequency of thrombosis 



134 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

during typhoid. One occurred in a man of 46, and in the remainder in men from 
21 to 30 years of age. In 5 the femoral vein was involved, and in the remaining 
2 the tibials. The earhest date of onset was the nineteenth day ; in 3 in the fourth 
week, in 2 on the thirtieth day, and in the remaining 1 on the forty-fourth day 
of the disease, the last patient having also previously suffered from slight haemor- 
rhage on the twenty-third and twenty-fourth days, thus indicating marked variations 
in the clotting power of his blood in the course of the attack of typhoid. The 
complication occurred about equally in mild and severe cases. Chart 23 is that 
of a very mild type being followed by thrombosis. Only 1 of these patients 
belonged to the constipated class of typhoids, all the others having suffered from 
diarrhoea, while in 3 of them it had been persistent tlu-oughout : so that thrombosis, 
as well as malaena, is especially associated with looseness of the bowels, thus empha- 
sizing the necessity for specially carefully watching the coagulability of the blood 
in all cases of typhoid with marked intestinal symptoms. 

PERIOSTITIS. — This rare compUcation occurred twice, once at the usual 
site over the tibia, resulting in an abscess, while in the other great pain and tender- 
ness in the left arm appeared, not in relationship to the blood vessels, and accom- 
panied by leucocytosis (23,000) ; it subsided without suppuration, and was looked 
on as periostitis of the humerus. I have also seen suppurative periostitis of the 
tibia in a native patient after typhoid fever. 

PERFORATION OF THE INTESTINE. — This terrible compHcation occurred 
twice in the 129 cases. Once on the twentieth day of a very mild case with inter- 
mittent fever during the third week of the disease. The patient was thought to 
be suffering from appendicitis, and this organ was removed and contained two 
small ulcers. He died on the following day and extensive typhoid ulceration with 
perforation was found. In the second case it happened on the twenty-fourth 
day of a severe case, and the patient died an hour and a half after the sudden onset 
of serious symptoms. 

OTHER COMPLICATIONS. — In one case abortion took place on the twentieth 
day, but although the pyrexia was prolonged to the twenty-seventh day, the patient 
made a good recovery. Parotid abscess of a very acute and fatal nature was once 
seen in the fourth week, and acute mastitis in another. Fatal mania followed 
a prolonged mild case in a woman aged 22, and hyperpyrexia to 106*6 terminated 
the hfe of a man aged 34. 

MORTALITY. — There were 21 deaths among the Calcutta series of 129 cases, 
or 16" 3 per cent. This is a high figure compared to 12-7 per cent, in Curschmann's 
thirteen years' experience at Leipsic, or including his private cases of 9*3 per cent., 
while Osier in ten years at Baltimore lost only 7*5 per cent. StiU the Calcutta figure 
is very much below the death-rates returned as being due to typhoid in the British 
Army in India the returns of which are given by E. Roberts as having gradually fallen 
from 50 to 60 per cent, in the first decade to 26 or 27 per cent, at the present time. 



I 



Chart 23 (Case 537). 



"Wiydliu! 


_a«>J 


^» 


9 


4 


fP 


wmma^ 


t^./> 


r:^ 


-r 




■^T" 


"7?" 


"IT 


: ," ^ 1 


i-ir 

■-59-°l' 

H 

r57" 
i-30* 

i-4r 

H 

^S5* 


106° 
105°. 

1 108* 

^ 102° 

§ 

^ 10<J° 
99° 
98' 
97° 

Hrsp * 

DatefDis 






















f^rT 




-^;- 


1 - 




r ■ 




; 


I 


- 


h : l ; : 












"^ " 




::;•: 


' 


- 




'-- 


'~l '-• 




::= 


_ 






■ 


■..: : : 




-._ 


.- 






- 




■ ' t - 




' 




J 1- 


:f. 


T-- 


. 






':■':- 


1 


- 


- 


i 


T 


1 
4 


^-J i^ 










i 








! - 




™ -7-* i 


.f- 


: 


.: 


;. 




- 


1^ 


1/ 


ii— 


1 


- 




^ 


' '■• 


'-.- 


t 




• / 


' f.- 


::..; 


- 


- 


^ 








v. 












V 


J 


,:[ 


J 


V^ 


"^Jt 


- 


' 


- ■. 










_-_ 


-.1 


. A 






- 






i 


"- 


' 


^ 


.::|'-. 


::.L 


T 




^;. 


;/ 


i 


U 




>■ 


. 1 


"\R 


.-_ 


^ ' 




":. 




- 








:- 


■ r- 






1 ■ 




■ - 


if 


s 


/iL^iri 


V 


¥ 


J-> 


\ 


y 


O^" 


i- 


, 


-. 








'- 




r V i 




I . - 










^_ 


_^_^ 




^_ 


mim 


_i_ 




k/ 




.J_ 


- 












y. 


^ 


cj 


if 


~ 


; 


-7- 


1 1 

1 ' 










- 


'% 


-- 1 




: 


i- 




■ - 


- 


-.r. 


,-- 


. 


-i 


t 










I- 




.. 


T 


■ t 


- 


' 










l- ■ 


' 


f 




' 








• 




-— 


^T" 










"T" 


• 


'VT 








tti 






w" 


x^ 


23r 


iJTol 




fi 




(>i 




^ 




Sr 




71 


^^-72: 




72 




60 




/,* 






2.0" 


■' 


Zo 






a-f 




yy 




%d 




^ 




'J.i 




a*' 


/v 




^8 




'■*■ 




« 


\ — 




9 


|»7 






1^ 


a* 


fl 


1% 


L?- 


17 


a: 


/8 


> 




39 


a 


[ 11 


,^ 




i/a 
sw 1 


106°- 
lOS" 

5 »♦• 

1 '08° 
f 102° ■ 

•^ ioo°. 

99°- 
Xmmi 
38'- 

07- . 
BowfU 


"-" 




■ ■ : 


_- 






^:1, 










ri 




- 








--~j '■- 


"i- 








- 


: f". -■ 






1 





4- 






-^ 


- 






V 


lb 


Li_ 


-'t 


- 




•-' 




i 


-" 


'^. 




-:- 

■4:- 


i: 


_, - 


"^ 


- 




..r:_ 





•j 




:r-:" 


— r- 


_^ 


- 


~ 


fU-; 


i 


..:r 


- 


fsr 


- 


-. 




-.r- 


■^ 


-rS 




.- , 




^ 






£ 


~ri 


*I*H 


-i 


z^ 




^ 




... 


7. 


W 


~ 


1 

■1 — 


'tEE 


Ei- 


'-r-j 


Lz;^ 


? 


^ 


i::^ 


"I" 


tw 


1 


^* 


7: 


■ ^ 


-r- 


-■ 


-. 




,1 






K 




^ 


471 


Is 


f/ 




V 


:^*i/:!.: 


If 


-_ 




t"-!!^ 


<^| 


fi 








■ -' 


: 




n 


4> 


^^f 


:::i.;: 






R-" 


^t:y/ 


■^:. 


T 


:" 


ff- 


_T. 


"t^ 




7-f 


S, 




^ 


f- 




j 


. 


t 'LJ 


-' 


S 


. 




, 








r-- 




- 




::•— 


-- 


...... 


•::1.- 


-• 


1 


r^ 




, 








LJ f^ 




!3B 




J - 


rrrr 


» 






. J . 










-..,^. 






1 






' 




• 








^r 


■.It.: 


^ 






} 


J^f-;' 


i 


: 


^;- 


': |r 




■i'": 






; 1^: 






< 


' 




, 






— . 


:-• - 


--. 


~ 




'— _ 




^;E- 




- 


'- 


.- 


:^.--- 






■t: 


■T- 




. |: 






■■:-; 


- 


._!.; ..J ;■ 








• 


• 




f« 








T^- 













7?: 








■7<? 




Ri 




7"o- 




So 


irr 


— 


T? 




TT 


~"~ 




7V 




1K 




t* 








7<! 




/« 




Yfi 




r,v 




^«. 




fiS 




ifS 




«'(' 




»• 




If: 


/fi 








t-C 












«.«. 








r8 




/J' 




A<' 




lit 




/>f 




-ra 




10 






i a 




It 




It 








/f 




/,^ 




'? 




r» 




T» 




-J a 




«* 




'Jt 




a;? 


~i : i 


i.a 


i/ 




I 




'~- 




■ H 




■/ 














1 


;> 




M 




n 


^ 


/ 




^ 














Dayeflhs 


"3 


i 


s 


P- 


.^ 


i_ 


-JU- 


.!« 


r,,. 


i ;»« 


<< 


l« 


,H 


f 


fi 


^ 


■ff 


f.. 


• ... 


6tt 


i*JKL_ 


L« 


<^-, 


.,* 


?,, 


i-41" 

•s 
■•39"|' 

It 

L38">| 

i-se* 


106'- 
1Q5° 

1 "^' 

V102°- 

|lOI° 

•^ ioo°. 

99° ■ 
98* ■ 
97° • 

fUUe * 
K.sp * 


r." 


f- 


'^-. 


■^ 






-r~ ~ 










V 














5' 


^ 




~i- 














" 


" 






-1 


"- 


-I 


;-'- 


-}- 




:r- 




■F---i' 


O- 


■; ■ 


' 


t 

i 




.-'-■ 




_-?'- 


-_■ 


_:f. 


r_ 


i- 


f- 


T 




.1. 


"T- 


r. 


-5r 


,v 


=!: 


-i" 


:i:. 


--T- 


1: 


=^ 


— »— 1-^ 


"^ 


z--- 


-t - 


K- 


-". 


--f- 


T' 


^- 


fj- 


.rr 


-^_- 


4- 


31; 


'f'-. 


.;.- 


•4- 


-,- 


- !- 


ij 


--; 


~J - 


i- 


i- 


_i_". 


ts 


,'t-: 


Ip ' 


-~ 


.- 


:5 


-f 


V 


rt: 










■ r 




-tz 


j:zs 


""^"r 


__- 


"tj 


~- 




'•f- 


Ji 


_ 


'-r: 




ti^^ 


-, 


.4_' 


__ 


t. 




r 




f- 


^ 








' 




"i - 


'- 




— 


-"?- 


7I- 




gp^ 


^♦^CPI 


'"i- 


~^~ 


" 






-% 


ri-- 


-3— 


—TW^ Vi 


3^ 


V- 






!_ 


- - 


"1- 


.1- 


- 


-.: 


_r . 


-1 


— 


. - ," 






7- 


-f~ 


" 






W^ 


-1 


M^ 


~f 


~!- 


:*Y 




J 


- 






H- 


^ 




_-- 




_f 


■g 


HI- 


A 








^ t-: 




-, 


! 


. i . 


V 


^it" 


■^^' 


\ 




n 


\_ 


'h 


^ 




^ 


— rr 


m 


4-~ 


(f« 


^"W 


1 1 


-•- 


} 


f-' 


i 







-H 


'Ji««-, H 


J 


I 'J 




-1'- 




- H 


• 




V 


LI 


i 




n 


0..#F'^ -.F; 1 


Yfil^i 


fjtil 


ra lAtHfe; 


■- 




! - 


-- F 


' 




rr 


m 


^'• 






I J--I 


"V- 


" 




V- 


rTl!^ 




- 


:r- 




•Jj 


-- 






-~w 




--i.-:. r- 


-' 


*■ 






1^ 


- 


•>- 








tifi 


-,7" 




: 


■^ 














_;- 






- , 


'- 


-; 


' 


- 


. 


- 


4 










¥ 


_ 










\}<^ 




h, 




ftn 




iu ■■■ 


T«i" 




&■" 




'■f 




A« 




frr 




w 






/m 




^i 




fJr 






rt* 




ti, 




<>( 


*iv 














n» 




Tf 


\ 


iak 


n: 




rr* 




W 




:>< 






/<> 




r'( 




1* 


f r 




^* 




tj. 


u 




i# 




/g': 1 




7f 




i« 




16 






2L 




Ja 


11 


^ 


11 




■IH 




IBM 






i& 




^ 








«.i^ 




i& 




/^ 



Mild typhoid with low remittent temperature touching normal on the twelfth day, but complicated 
by femoral thrombosis on the twenty-second day. 



136 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



with the increased number of fever cases returned as enteric. In hill stations the 
mortahty is only 19 per cent., clearly showing the good effect of a cooler climate. 
Part of this excess is no doubt due to the small proportion of children in the army 
series, for in my cases the mortality among children under 15 was only 6' 9 
per cent, against 19 per cent, in adults. There still remains a considerable margin, 
which is most likely due to many of the milder cases of tjrphoid in the army 
hospitals in India being still diagnosed as " remittent " or " simple continued fever," 
for in stations from which a large number of cases are entered under the latter 
headings the mortality among those returned as typhoid is usually specially high, 
and vice versa. 

The death rate of 163 per cent, in the Calcutta series is probably still in excess 
of the true rate, for it has already been mentioned that only cases in which a positive 
Widal reaction was obtained, or the clinical symptoms were quite typical of typhoid, 
have been included in my tables. In addition to these a number of cases occurred 
whose blood gave negative reactions, and a few in which it was not tested, but 
which ran a course closely parallel with the number of short continued and mild 
remittent tjrphoids with positive Widal reactions, and most of which were ulti- 
mately diagnosed as typhoid. I have no doubt that many of these were true 
typhoid, or the variety of the disease sometimes classed as para-typhoid, although 
they have been excluded from my tables as a possibility of doubt remained 
concerning them {see p. 191). If they are added to the typical cases of typhoid 
the death rate of the total number falls to only 12*9 per cent., and thus becomes 
closely approximated to that of Curschmann's hospital series. If this is the nearest 
approach to the actual mortality of a series of typhoid cases in a well-equipped 
hospital in the tropics, it emphasizes still more the probabihty that many mild 
cases in the British Army are returned under other headings, and when the results of 
the more general use of the Widal test, which is now being carried out in those 
hospitals, become apparent, the number of cases remaining in the doubtful classes 
of " remittents " and " simple continued fevers " A\-ill shrink still further, and 
before very long may nearly reach the vanishing point. 

CLINICAL FEATURES OF TYPHOID IN NATIVES 



In 1902 I analysed the symptoms of 11 cases of typhoid in natives of India 
in the Medical College Hospital, Calcutta, and found no essential differences from 
the same disease in Europeans, although the mortality of 30 per cent, was higher, 
apparently on account of the late stage at which many of them were brought to 
hospital. I now have records of 50 such cases (not including those among immi- 
grant Chinese and Armenians) with a mortality of 26 per cent., but the whole 
clinical picture is so precisely similar to that derived from the above consideration 
of typhoid in Europeans in India, that it is unnecessary to describe the native 
series in detail. The following points will suffice to illustrate the identity of the 
two series, and to bring out such small variations as exist between them. 

The disease occurred among all classes, Hindus, Mohammedans and native 



TYPHOID FEVER IN NATIVES 137 

Christians, the largest numbers in proportion to the population being in the latter 
class, owing to the fact that they bring their children more readily to the hospital. 
Of this class almost two-thirds were under 16 years of age, although other classes 
of native children are rarely admitted. One patient was a Parsee ; these people are 
not infrequently attacked by typhoid in Bombay. In proportion to the relative 
numbers in Calcutta, Hindus suffered more than Mohammedans. 

The duration of the fever showed only 9 per cent, of over thirty-three days' 
duration and 56 per cent, between twenty-two and thirty-three days, the average 
duration being shorter than those in the European series, and more closely corre- 
sponding to that met with in temperate chmates. Only one non-fatal case of under 
fifteen days' duration was met with. This is of interest, as pointing to the long 
duration of typhoid in Europeans in the hot plains of India being due to their 
being attacked while in a trying climate to which they are not adapted. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVE corresponds exactly with that in Europeans, 
the high continued type being even a more constant featm-e, for it was observed 
in no less than 89 per cent, of cases admitted in the first two weeks of the fever, 
and in 74 per cent, of the total number. In none was the low continued or inter- 
mittent form seen. These figures suggest the possibility that some of the milder 
remittent cases in natives were overlooked and their blood not sent to the 
laboratary for a serum test. 

The general symptoms present few features of special interest. The pulse 
was less frequently slow than in Europeans, while diarrhoea was more commonly 
marked, although one-third showed constipation. The stools rarely show a typical 
pea-soupy character, apparently owing to differences of diet. ABDOMINAL symptoms 
were just as prominent as in the Europeans, either distension, tenderness or gurgling 
in the right iliac fossa being recorded in 87 per cent. SPOTS were not noted, the 
dark skins of the hospital class of natives rendering them very difficult to detect. 
E. Goodeve frequently found them, while G. F. A. Harris, I.M.S., Physician to 
the Medical College Hospital, informs me that in the fairer upper classes seen in 
consulting practice he has often been able to detect tjrphoid spots with a purplish 
appearance. The spleen was felt below the costal margin in 36 per cent., but 
never extended more than 2 ins. below the ribs. CONGESTION of the bases of 
the LUNGS or bronchial rales were recorded in 75 per cent., including pneumonia 
in 10 per cent., affections of these organs having been more frequently recorded in 
the native than in the European series. 

COMPLICATIONS were less common in the native than in the European series. 
Perforation of the bowel occurred twice, but fatal collapse took place too quickly 
to allow of operative procedures being undertaken. Periostitis of the tibia super- 
vened once and haemorrhage from the bowel twice, but no case of thrombosis 
occurred : the greater rarity of these vascular complications in natives thus bears 
out the suggestion already made, that their frequency in Europeans in the tropics 
may be due to greater variations in the coagulability of their blood in hot places. 



138 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



WIDAL reactions were obtained in every case ; only fevers giving them have 
been included in the series. In 84 per cent, a complete reaction up to 1 in 100 
was obtained, including some cases re-tested after giving negative or lower reactions 
at an earlier date. In only one-fourth was a reaction obtained during the first 
two weeks, many having only been admitted at a later period. A few paratyphoid- 
like cases, with negative serum reactions to the typhoid bacillus, were also met with, 
but I have not yet cultivated any organism from them, as they usually only come 
under my observation at a late date when the peripheral blood is usually sterile. 

The above data will suffice to prove that typhoid in natives of India presents 
no material points of difference from the disease in Europeans in the tropics, and 
now that the frequency of the disease among them is so conclusively proved, they 
should be recognized without hesitation by the same signs already discussed in 
connexion with the clinical description of the European series. 



THE BLOOD CHANGES IN TYPHOID 

WIDAL'S SERUM TEST. — The most important change in the blood in typhoid 
is the increase in the agglutinative action on Eberth's bacillus, the estimation of 
which for diagnostic purposes is known as Widal's test. The methods of carrying it 
out are described on pages 24-26, but the results obtained by its means will be 
dealt with here. The important practical point is the stage of the disease when 
a reaction appears of such a degree as to be of diagnostic value. Curschmann 
regards a complete clumping by the microscopical method in dilutions of from 1 
in 60 to 1 in 100 as reliable evidence of the presence of tjrphoid, while Osier at 
the John Hopkins Hospital places it at 1 in 50 within one hour, also using the 
microscopical test. In my series the reaction was tested in three different dilutions, 
namely, 1 in 20, 1 in 40 and 1 in 100, and Table XVI shows the degree of reaction 
obtained at different periods of the disease. 





TABLE 


XVI.— SERUM REACTIONS IN TYPHOID. 










Negative in 
1-20 dilution. 


Positive up to 
1-20 only. 


Positve up to 
1-40 only. 


Positive up 
to 1-100. 


Total posit 


ive reactions. 




1 
6 


1 • 
Is 

■§.2 

4 


(Q CO 

3 


Total. 

Retested 
later. 


Reacted in 
higher dilu- 
tion later. 


13 
o 
H 

4 


II 

1- 


3 c 

go 


1 
o 


1| 
Ho 




Percentage 
of reactions. 


O CO 

1-2 § 


First week . . . 


2 1 1 








4 


16 


10 


62-5 


25 


Second week . . 


15 


13 


12 


7 — — 


6 





— 


40 


68 


53 


77-9 


58-8 


Third week . . . 


6 


3 


3 


— — _ 


8 


2 


2 


20 


34 


28 


82-4 


64-7 


Three weeks . . 


4 


2 


2 


1 — — 


6 


— 


— 


22 


32 


28 


87-5 


68-7 


Total . . . 


31 


22 


20 


10 1 1 24 


2 


2 


86 


150 |119 79 3 


53-8 



Only a small number of cases were tested m the first week of the fever, and 
62 per cent, gave some reaction, but only one-fourth of them up to 1 in 100. Dur- 



TYPHOID FEVER— WIDAL'S TEST 139 

ing the second week 78 per cent, gave some reaction, but in only 58' 8 per cent, was 
it complete in a 1 in 100 dilution, while in one-third the reaction did not exceed 
1 in 20. In the third week 82 jper cent, gave some reaction, and in two-thirds of 
it reached 1 in 100, while the figures for cases after the third week were only very 
slightly higher. The total figures gave some reactions in four-fifths, and up to 
1 in 100 in 57 per cent. Out of 22 cases with a negative reaction at the first test, 
20 gave some reaction on retesting at a later date, most of them being complete 
in a 1 in 100 dilution, while 3 which had reacted in the lower dilutions gave 1 in 100 
ones later. These include 5 cases in which a negative result had been got as late as 
the third week, in one of which a negative result on the twenty- third day was suc- 
ceeded by a complete one up to 1 in 100 on the thirty-seventh day of the fever, 
so that the failure of this test even after the third week will not allow of typhoid 
being excluded. 

With regard to the significance of reactions in different dilutions my experience 
is in agreement with the authorities already quoted, for I have several times obtained 
reactions up to 1 in 20 dilution in cases which proved not to be typhoid, but this 
is very rarely the case with 1 in 40 dilutions, although they may be obtained occasion- 
ally in patients who have suffered from an attack of typhoid within the previous 
two or three years. On the other hand I regard complete reactions up to 1 in 
100 by the microscopical method with a time limit of one hour, as almost absolute 
evidence of an actual attack of typhoid or immediate convalescence from one. 
Such reactions are exceptional in the first week of the disease, and only found by 
a single examination at later dates in from three-fifths to two-thirds of the cases. 
Reactions in lower dilutions are highly suggestive and should lead to further testing 
after a few days have elapsed, while any case at all resembling typhoid in which 
a negative reaction is got should also be retested in five to seven days' time. It 
must also be borne in mind that repeated negative reactions throughout may be 
obtained in undoubted and often very severe typhoid, so that when clinically there 
are any good reasons for looking on a case as one of typhoid, a negative Widal 
should be allowed little or no weight against the clinical diagnosis. Where it is 
most valuable is in enabling very mild or abortive cases to be recognized and pro- 
perly treated, and preventive measures against the spread of the disease being 
taken, but it still remains only an additional aid in forming a diagnosis, which 
in the majority of cases can be usually made from a study of the temperature 
curve, pulse rate and other clinical characters before a reliable Widal reaction can 
be obtained. 

ANAEMIA of a mild degree is produced by typhoid, but is not a very marked 
clinical feature, nor is it of any diagnostic importance. 

CHANGES IN THE WHITE CORPUSCLES are of greater significance. In 
the first place there is a progressive decrease of the total number of the white 
corpuscles in the course of the disease, and leucocytosis never occurs except as a 
result of such complications as pneumonia, periostitis and other inflammations. 



140 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT is also of considerable importance 
in typhoid in the tropics. Table XVII gives the variations in both the lymphocytes 
and the large mononuclears in a number of cases in which the counts were made 
by me. The most important point to note is that a marked large mononuclears 
increase was very exceptional, while, on the other hand, the lymphocytes may be 
frequently present in considerable excess, in proportion to which the polynuclears 
will be reduced. Thus, in 76 per cent, of the examinations the large mononuclears 
did not exceed the normal rate of up to 8 per cent., while in 8 per cent, more only 
from 8 to 11 per cent, were present. In 9 per cent, they numbered from 11 to 
15, and in only 7 per cent, did they exceed 15 per cent. On comparing these figures 
with those for malaria and kala-azar on pp. 225 and 69 it will be seen that typhoid 
shows a large mononuclear increase in a much smaller percentage of the cases than 
the latter diseases, and usually only late in its course. Moreover, several of the 
cases in which this increase was found were complicated by malaria, the parasites 
of that disease being found in the blood in addition to the serum test, although 
the complication had little effect on the temperature curve except in convales- 
cence, as already mentioned {see p. 122). 



TABLE XVII.— DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT IN TYPHOID. 





Up to 8 per cent. 


8-11 per cent. 


Il- 


ls per cent. 

10 

8-9 


Over 15 per cent. 


I. Percentage of large Mononu- 
clears. 

Cases 

Percentage 


86 
76-2 


9 

7-9 


8 

7 




Up to 30 per cent. 


30-40 per cent. 


Over 40 per cent. 


Total. 


II. Percentage of Lymphocytes 
First two weeks .... 
After second week 


Cases. Percentage. 
25 52 1 
18 37-5 


Cases. Percentage. 
15 31-8 
11 22-9 


Cases. Perc3ntage. 

8 16-6 

19 39-6 


48 
48 


Total. 


43 44-8 


26 271 


27 281 


96 



In over half the cases the lymphocytes exceeded the normal upper limit of 30 
per cent., while in 28 per cent, they exceeded 40 per cent. The increase was, how- 
ever, less marked during the first two weeks than later, so that it is not found in quite 
half the cases during the earlier periods of the fever. The lymphocyte increase 
is commonly absent in the most severe cases, while it is as a rule very marked in 
the milder forms, in which its presence, without any large mononuclear increase, 
is often an important indication of the presence of typhoid rather than that of 
malaria or kala-azar, but similar counts are frequent in seven-day fever, in which 
this test is of very little help. 

On the whole the differential leucocyte count is not of as much practical value 



TYPHOID FEVER— CULTIVATIONS FROM THE BLOOD 141 

in typhoid as I had at one time hoped would prove to be the case, although the 
fact that in 76 per cent, of the typhoid series the large mononuclears did not exceed 
8 per cent., while in only 15 per cent, of kala-azar were large mononuclears found 
in normal numbers, makes an absence of this change a point of considerable 
diagnostic importance in favour of typhoid as against early kala-azar, and one 
which has often proved of great service in actual practice. 

CULTIVATIONS OF THE TYPHOID BACILLUS FROM THE BLOOD.— Where 
a laboratory is available a still more certain and early test of the presence of 
typhoid fever may be carried out by taking several cubic centimetres of blood 
from a vein, in the manner described on p. 26, afld diluting it in several 
hundred cubic centimetres of sterile broth. In this way the typhoid bacillus 
may be obtained in pure culture in a large proportion, for out of 604 cases 
collected by Coleman and Buxton in New York, in 75 per cent, positive results 
were obtained. During the first week of the disease the tjrphoid bacillus was cul- 
tivated in 93 per cent., in the second week in 76 per cent., in the third week in 66 
per cent., and in the fourth in 32 per cent. The great advantage of this test, when 
it is available, is that positive results are said to be obtainable as early as the second 
day of the fever. Owing to the distance of the European hospital from my labora- 
tory in Calcutta this method has only occasionally been resorted to, but Chart 
24 illustrates a case in which a typical typhoid bacillus was cultivated from 
the blood of a doubtful fever in which the Widal test had reacted only to 1 in 20 
once, and was negative later. In some characteristic and severe typhoids, how- 
ever, it has failed in my hands, but further work on these lines is required in the 
tropics, especially for the differentiation of the so-called paratyphoid group. Occa- 
sionally the typhoid organism may be isolated from a few drops of blood from a 
finger or lobe of the ear, as mentioned on p. 27. 

TREATMENT. — The clinical identity of typhoid in India with that of temperate 
climates makes it unnecessary to say much in this work on the treatment of the 
disease, which should follow well known principles. In the European Hospital 
at Calcutta chlorine mixture with 3 grain doses of quinine has been used system- 
atically in the great majority of typhoids, but the long average duration already 
noted proves that it in no way shortens the attack, while some cases treated by 
me in the same hospital without any systematic drugging, but only occasional 
measures for the relief of special symptoms, did at least equally well as those taking 
the very unpleasant chlorine solution. Some cases which were at first thought 
to have been typhoids cut short by the chlorine treatment proved afterwards to be 
only seven day fever. 

COLD APPLICATIONS. — ^Measures directed towards preventing the tempera- 
ture remaining persistently at a very high level are of special importance in the 
tropics, where for so many months in the year the atmospheric conditions are 
such as to favour the sudden supervention of hyperpyrexia. Some years ago 
very depressant drugs of the antipyrin type were largely used for this purpose, 



Chabt 24 (Case 1,144). 




Prolonged low remittent and intermittent fever. Widal positive 1 in 20 only on eighth day, negative 
on twentj'^-second day. Pelvic trouble suspected as cause of fever and operation proposed. 
Typhoid bacillus cultivated from the blood on twenty-ninth day. 

142 



TYPHOID FEVER— HAEMORRHAGE 143 

but happily this has been almost entirely given up at the present time in favour 
of cold applications, which have the all important advantage of acting as cardiac 
tonics as well as refrigerants. The precise method of applying cold is more diffi- 
cult to decide, as the results obtained by the cold bath treatment in AustraUa by 
Hars are very striking, while F. K. Newland, R.A.M.C, treated 111 cases of enteric 
at Quetta by this method with a mortahty of 17 per cent. The great difficulty 
in carrying out this treatment in the tropics is the want of the amount of skilled 
assistance to enable it to be safely used in the large number of cases which have 
to be dealt with. Moreover, very good results are obtained by the long continued 
application during the persistence of high temperature of sheets wrung out in cold 
water, which plan obviates the danger of moving the patient into and out of the 
bath. In Calcutta and most places in the tropics this cold pack treatment is gener- 
ally used, and on the whole it appears to be the best for adoption under ordinary 
circumstances. Cold air baths may also be used by placing ice in a tray suspended 
from a cradle under the bedclothes, 

THE REGULATION OF THE BOWELS.— The frequent occurrence of per- 
sistent constipation in typhoid necessitates the frequent use of enemas to empty 
the large bowel. The common routine use of a purgative on the admission of 
patients to some hospitals for any kind of fever may lead to disaster if given in an 
unrecognized typhoid case, to meet which it is a rule in Calcutta that no purgatives 
may be ordered by a subordinate medical officer for a fever patient until he has 
been seen by the physician in charge of the ward. Excessive looseness of the bowels 
may require to be checked by opiates in small doses, which, given with due care, are 
of special value in this class on account of the danger of haemorrhage or perforation. 

HAEMORRHAGE from the bowels is the most frequent serious compUcation 
of typhoid, and has to be considered both as regards prevention and treatment. 
When it occurs within the first two weeks and is not copious enough to affect 
the temperature and pulse, it usually does little harm, but coming on at a later date 
and producing a marked fall of temperature and quickening of the pulse the life of 
the patient is in immediate danger. In addition to the usual treatment by opium 
to rest the bowel, and by cold applications to the lower abdomen, drugs which 
increase the coagulabihty of the blood are indicated. The most rapid and powerful 
of these is undoubtedly calcium chloride, which should be given at once in a dose 
of 30 grains, and repeated after four hours, but not more than two or three 
doses should be given lest the negative effect of reduced coagulability due to pushing 
it be produced. After a day or two it can be repeated if necessary. Another drug, 
of perhaps even greater value in this condition, is turpentine, which I showed some 
years ago produces some general increased coagulability of the blood in addition to its 
powerful local haemostatic action, so that it would appear to be an ideal medicine in 
the treatment of intestinal haemorrhage, and yet it is not used as much as it ought 
to be for this purpose. It must be given in at least 15 minim doses, best in capsules 
to prevent it being tasted. In several very critical cases, after the failure of all 



144 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

other treatment, the use of this drug has been followed rapidly by final cessation of 
the malaena and recovery of the patient. 

The prevention of haemorrhage from the bowel depends on the early recog- 
nition of the reduced coagulability of the blood on which Wright states it 
depends. The estimation takes about ten minutes, so that it may prove very 
difficult or impossible under ordinary conditions of work in the tropics to make 
repeated examinations in every case of typhoid. The fact already pointed out 
{see p. 132) that the more serious class of haemorrhage from the bowel almost 
always occurs during the third and fourth weeks of the disease, and the great majority 
of cases of haemorrhage have had marked or persistent diarrhoea, largely gets over this 
difficulty by limiting the imperative observations to such cases between the third and 
fourth weeks. If the blood takes more than five minutes to clot with Wright's tubes 
steps should be taken to increase the clotting power of the blood and their effects 
carefully watched. Here, again, a warning against the prolonged used of calcium 
chloride must be given, for although increased clotting is produced within about 
fifteen minutes by this drug, after a few doses it must be left off for a day or two, 
lest the opposite negative result be produced, and haemorrhage may be actually 
caused instead of being prevented ; this actually happened in one case in which this 
precaution was neglected and the drug continued for a number of days. 

The opposite effect of increased clotting, leading to thrombosis in the late 
stages of the disease, may also be watched for, and such precautions may be taken 
as decalcifying all milk given by the addition of a little citrate of soda, or the internal 
administration of citrates. This citration of the mUk also has the great advantage 
of making it clot in the stomach in very much smaller curds than untreated mUk 
does, but in view of the frequent haemorrhages in cases of typhoid with persistent 
diarrhoea the loss of the calcium salts that the addition of citrates brings about 
may prove a disadvantage in that class of typhoid fever. 

Marked distension of the abdomen is both a distressing symptom and one which 
may be dangerous from interfering with the action of the already weakened heart. 
Oil of cinnamon has recently been advocated for its relief, and very good results 
liave followed its use in Calcutta in such cases. 

The heart requires to be most carefully watched in typhoid in the tropics, 
-where the prolonged atmospherical heat causes additional stress on this vital organ. 
If the first sound becomes shortened cardiac stimulants, such as strychnine, stro- 
panthus, and in small and carefully watched doses, digitalis may be of great service, 
while in severe cases alcohol is generally also indicated. 

Quinine in small doses, such as 3 or 4 grains several times a day, appears to be 
the only drug of general value in controlling to some degree the temperature, together 
with a mild tonic effect. If malaria complicates typhoid it may be given in 10 
grain doses with 5 minims of liquor strychninae two or three times a day for a few 
days only. 

PROTECTIVE INOCULATION AGAINST TYPHOID FEVER.— In Haffkine's 
original method of inoculation against cholera, cultures of the living comma bacillus 



TYPHOID FEVER— VACCINES 145 

were injected subcutaneously. Such a procedure was clearly unjustifiable in the 
case of the organism of typhoid, which is disseminated through the body by the 
blood stream. Sir A. E.Wright, however, showed by a long series of experiments 
that the bactericidal power of the blood against the typhoid bacillus can be greatly 
increased by the subcutaneous injection of cultures, which have been killed at a 
temperature of 60° C. for one hour, a method which has now been extensively used 
as a prophylactic measure, especially among soldiers going to the tropics, or under 
conditions where typhoid is unusually prevalent, such as South Africa during the 
late war. Great difficulties were met with in obtaining accurate data of the results 
of this method, but several Committee's have now reported in favour of its protective 
value, the last, that of the Royal College of Physicians of London, concluding : 
"After careful scrutiny of the statistics from both official and private sources which 
have been made available, we are of the opinion that not only is a lessened suscepti- 
bility to the disease brought about as a result of the inoculations, but that the case 
mortality is largely reduced." Sir A. E. Wright has critically examined all the data 
then available in his book on the subject, and sums up as follows : — "With two slight 
exceptions, the incidence of typhoid was decreased by at least half, and reached from 
a six-fold to a twenty-eight-fold reduction in some instances. Further, the case 
mortality was rather less than one-half, aggregating 80 per cent, among 1,758 inocu- 
lated persons attacked, and 16' 6 per cent, in 10,980 uninoculated under the same 
conditions." The total effect was, thus, rarely less than a four-fold reduction in 
the death rate of those subjected to this prophylactic measure, in spite of the 
conditions of its trial being frequently far from, ideal. 

As a result of recent researches, carried out at the Royal Army Medical CoUege 
laboratories, a typhoid vaccine of uniform strength and efficiency has been made, 
which produces a minimum degree of fever and very slight symptoms, but which 
has furnished remarkably good results in the case of an outbreak of typhoid in the 
17th Lancers shortly after the regiment reached India. Out of a total number 
of 593 men, 127 were inoculated twice, 23 more once only, while 443 were uninocu- 
lated. Out of 63 cases of tjrphoid 61 were among the uninoculated and the remaining 
2 in those who refused the second dose, none who had the double inoculation being 
attacked. There is also evidence to show that the protection afforded lasts for at 
least two or three years, and probably for considerably longer, to some extent at 
any rate. 

Taking the above convincing evidence of the preventive action of the vaccine, 
together with the fact I have shown on page 110, namely that 80 per cent, of the 
cases of typhoid among European immigrants in Calcutta occurred within the first 
three years of residence in the tropics, I have no hesitation in advising everyone going 
to parts of the East where typhoid is common to submit to the double inoculation. 
The effect of the vaccine now used is only a few hours' fever and slight malaise for a 
day or two ; a small price indeed to pay for the very considerable protection afforded 
against the greatest scourge of Europeans in the tropics. 

PARATYPHOID. — During the last few years at least two varieties of bacilli 

10 



146 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

of the coli group, which closely resemble the typhoid bacillus, although differing from 
it in some of the fermentation tests, have been isolated from the blood of cases of 
continued fever clinically identical with mild typhoid, although tending to run a 
short course. They have been termed paratyphoid fevers by the American writers 
who have chiefly studied them, and the blood of these cases clumps these para- 
t3rphoid bacilli in higher dilutions than those of true t3rphoid, although the fact 
that they will often also clump with the latter as well shows how closely related 
the whole group is, even bacteriologically considered, and still more so from the 
clinical standpoint. 

In a small number of typhoid-like fevers which did not react with the true 
typhoid bacillus, I have carried out serum reactions with the paratyphoid A and B 
bacilli, and occasionally obtained positive results with the B variety only, while 
one case which gave a reaction up to 1 in 40 with this organism subsequently 
proved to be an early kala-azar. In a few cases positive reactions were obtained 
with both the true t3rphoid and bacillus the paratyphoid B, Cultures from the 
blood of typhoid-like cases with negative Widal reactions in my hands have so far 
only occasionally yielded true typhoid bacilli, but it is probable that further research 
in the tropical East may furnish fresh varieties of paratyphoid bacilli which may 
help to clear up further doubtful cases by giving serum reactions of diagnostic 
value. Indeed Castellani has very recently reported that he has cultivated two para- 
typhoid-like organisms from the blood of irregular fevers in Ceylon. As already 
mentioned in discussing the mortaUty of typhoid, over 20 cases which were clinically 
typhoid without a positive serum test, or about one-sixth as many as are contained 
in the undoubted typhoid series, were met with during the same period, but some 
of these would probably have reacted if retested at a later date. None of these 
were fatal, while their duration was on the average shorter than the typical typhoids, 
so that some at least were most likely of a paratyphoid nature. Dr. Row has also 
recorded para-typhoid cases in Bombay. As they require to be treated in precisely 
the same way as true typhoids, and as most of them are fairly typical of that disease 
clinically, their exact differentiation is of more academical than practical interest. 

An analysis of these 31 doubtful typhoid cases has been made, with the following 
results. In 7 no Widal test was done, while in 5 more it was only carried out during 
the first week, when it is frequently negative in true typhoid. In 8 a negative result 
was obtained in the second week and in 10 at later dates. The duration of the fever 
was on the average shorter than the undoubted typhoid series, having been from nine 
to fourteen days in 6 cases, and between fifteen and twenty-one days in 9 more, so that 
in just half the cases it did not exceed three weeks. The age and sex data are very 
similar to those of the true series, except that the number of children was somewhat 
small (4 out of 31). The largest number of immigrants were in these cases also 
attacked within their first year in India. Bronchial, pneumonic and abdominal 
complications were less frequent than in the reacting typhoids, and diarrhoea was 
only met with in one-third of the cases, constipation in the remainder ; this again is 
in accordance with the mildness of the series and the absence of any fatal cases. 
The high continued type of fever, which is so characteristic of typhoid, was present 



TYPHOID FEVER (INCLUDING PARATYPHOID) 147 

in two-thirds, and the high remittent type in another sixth. In the remaining 3 the 
unusual low continued type was observed. The slow pulse, not exceeding 100 per 
minute with a temperature of 103° F. or over, was present in three-fourths of the 
cases in which there was a regular record. Typhoid-like spots were noted in 5 
cases, haemorrhage occurred in 2, and thrombosis in another, while in 1 a relapse 
took place. 

In all the above points the disease closely resemoled cases of mild typhoid, from 
which they were quite indistinguishable clinically, while two-thirds of them were 
eventually returned as typhoid fever in spite of the negative Widal tests in many, 
and rightly so in my opinion. C. Birt, R.A.M.C., has recently come to similar 
conclusions regarding paratyphoids. In several instances cultures from venous 
blood gave negative results, and in several the serum test was repeated in the later 
stages of the disease with negative results again. It is in this class of cases that 
new varieties of paratjrphoid bacilli will probably be found, such as Castellani has 
recently described. Clinically, however, these are nothing but mild typhoids and 
appear to be rather sub- varieties of that disease than distinct specific fevers. 

TYPHOID REFERENCES 

I. TYPHOID IN NATIVES OF INDIA 

1885. Harris, G. F. A. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. Ill, 1 case with post mortem. 

1885. Jasmasji, D. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. Ill, 7 cases in Bombay, 6 in Parsees. 

1885. Cleghom, J. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 342, 3 cases in Allahabad. 

1885. Ewart, Joseph. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 1, Affects all classes of natives. 

1888. Bose, Koilas C. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 109, 4 cases in Calcutta. 

1893. Crombie, A. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 148, "Immunity of Natives of India from Enteric." 

1894^ Pilgrim, H. W. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 146, 2 cases in Calcutta with post mortems. 

1899. Buchanan, A. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 403, 25 cases in Nagpur with post mortems. 

1900. Elliot, R. H. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 115, 13 cases in Madreis Hospital in 3 J months with 

serum tests in aU. 

1900. Lamb, G. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 123, 8 cases in Bombay with serum tests. 

1900. Dykes, Cambell. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 411, 9 cases in native sailors in Bombay. 

1902. Rogers, Leonard, Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 6, 11 cases in Calcutta with serum tests. 

1902. Lamb, G. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 48, 10 cases in Poona with serum tests. 

1902. Duer, C. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 291, common in all classes in Bm-ma. 

1902. Wilkins, T. J. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 435, 73 ceises in ten years in Medabar. 
1904. Powell, A. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 43, 24 cases in Bombay police. 

1903. Maxwell, J. P. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 188, typhoid among natives in Southern China. 

II. CLINICAL AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL 

1906. Roberts, E. Enteric Fever in India and in other Tropical and Sub-tropical Regions. 

Thacker Spink & Co., Calcutta. 
1902. Curschmann, H. Typhoid Fever, Nothnagel's Encyclopedia of Medicine. (Edited by 

Professor W. Osier). 
1897. Newland, F. K. Report on the Cold Bath Treatment of Typhoid Fever. Army Med. 

Dept. Report. 
1900. Spencer, D. B. Enteric Fever in India. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 349. 



148 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

1903. Wright, A. E. and Knapp, H. H. G. Note on the Causation and Treatment of Throm- 

bosis occurring in connexion with typhoid fever. Med-Chir. Trans. 

1904. Bourke, E. A. Note on Enteric Fever in India, with an analysis of 75 cases. Jour. 

of Roy. Army Med. Corps, Vol. Ill, p. 213. 
1904. ICnox, E. Blake. On the Spread of Enteric Fever by urine and its prophylaxis. Jour. 

Roy. Army Med. Corps, Vol. Ill, p. 1. 
1904. Harrison, W. S. On the Effect of Drying and Exposure to the Sun of the Typhoid 

Bacillus under Indian conditions. Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, p. 378. 
1904. Practitioner special number on Typhoid. 
1906. Birt, C. On the Treatment of Enteric Fever with Typhoid Vaccine. Jour. Roy. Army 

Med. Corps, Vol. VII, p. 271. 
1906. Harrison, W. S. On a rapid and practical method of diagnosing typhoid. Jour. Roy. 

Army Med. Corps, Vol. VII, p. 126. 



i 



III. PARATYPHOID 

1904. Firth, R. H. Paratyphoid Infection. Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, Vol. II, p. 241. 

1905. Row, F. Obscure Irregular Continued Fevers of the Typhoid Group. Ind. Med. Gaz., 

p. 292. 

1906. Spencer J D. B. Paratyphoid and Typhoid Fever. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 378. 

1906. Boycott, A. E. Observations on the Bacteriology of Paratyphoid Fever, and on the 

Reaction of Typhoid and Paratyphoid Sera. Join". Hygiene, p. 33. 

1907. Birt, C. Typhoid and Paratyphoid Fevers, Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, August. 



IV. INOCULATION AGAINST TYPHOID FEVER 

1904, Wright, A. E. A Short Treatise on Anti-typhoid Inoculation. 

1897. Wright, A. E. and Semple, D. Vaccination against Typhoid Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., 
Vol. I, p. 256. 

1905. Leishman, W. B. Anti-typhoid Inoculation. Jour. Hygiene, Vol. V, p. 380. 
1907. Leishman, W. B. The Progress of Anti-typhoid Inoculation in the Army. Jovu*. Rojal 

Army Med. Corps, Vol. VIII, p. 463. 
1907. Harrison, W. S. Report of the Results of Experiments in Connexion with Anti-typhoid 

vaccine. Jotu:. Roy. Army Med. Corps, Vol. VIII, p. 472. 
1907. Luxmoore, E. J. H. Report on the Outbreak of Enteric and Effect of Anti-typhoid 

Inoculation among the 17th Lancers, Meerut, India. Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 

Vol. VIII, p. 492. 



IV. INDIAN RELAPSING FEVER AND AFRICAN TICK FEVER 
INDIAN RELAPSING FEVER 

HISTORY OF RELAPSING FEVER IN THE EAST.— Norman Chevers care- 
fully studied the older records regarding fevers in India, and came to the conclusion 
that relapsing fever is one of the indigenous pests of the country, and that its 
history can be traced back until the middle of the eighteenth century. He con- 
sidered that the outbreak of a fatal fever which followed the drought and famine in 
the United Provinces in 1816, and again in 1836, was probably relapsing fever. It 
was not, however, until 1 842 that the disease was clearly distinguished from typhus 
in Europe, and the first Indian outbreak which was recognized as being relapsing 
fever was that described by Robert Lyall, in the Usufzaie Valley, near Peshawar, 
in the extreme north-west of the Punjab in 1852-53. The mortahty was unusually 
high, namely about 30 per cent., jaundice being seen in some, and inflammation 
and suppuration in the glands occurred in others during the late stages, the people 
attacked being mainly very poor and half starved. In the sixties several outbreaks 
occurred in the jails of the Punjab and United Provinces, which Dr. 0. Boyes 
Smith showed to be identical with the relapsing fever of Great Britain. Again, 
the famine of 1876-77 was attended with much relapsing fever in the Bombay 
Presidency, but not on the Madras side of India, which is in accordance with the 
present incidence of the disease in its sporadic form. This outbreak was very 
ably investigated by Vandyke Carter, who first found the spirillum in India, thus 
identifying the disease with that of Europe ; he also reproduced it in monkeys. 
He wrote a very full account of the disease, which will be further referred to. 

The next important contribution on the subject appears to be the account 
of an outbreak of relapsing fever among the coolies working on the Chaman extension 
railway in 1890-91 by L. J. Pisani, I.M.S., the death rate among ninety-one cases 
having been 7*8 per cent. In 1899 I met with an outbreak in the Kumaon Hills, 
which had been reported as Sunjar, a disease previously thought to be a mild form 
of Mahamari, or plague. On reaching the place the fever had subsided, but 
full notes of the illnesses of those who had suffered revealed a typical outbreak of 
relapsing fever, and in the blood of a boy who was just commencing to get his first 
relapse I found the spirillum in small numbers. The occurrence of the disease in 
this part of the Himalayas is interesting in connexion with the fact that the 1816 
epidemic fever specially affected the districts of the United Provinces just south of the 
Kumaon. Two cases of fever showing the spirillum in their blood were also seen 
in Tibet, to the North of the Himalayas, by Turnbull. while the disease has also 

149 



160 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



recently been reported from Peshawar, as well as from the Bombay Presidency, 
the latter being never long free of it. 

DISTRIBUTION OF RELAPSING FEVER IN INDIA.— The exact limits of 
the distribution of relapsing fever in India are probably not yet fully known, and 
there is httle to be added to the information just given under the head of the his- 
tory of the disease. There appears good reason for thinking that it does not occur 
in Bengal, Assam and Madras. In the United Provinces it is certainly very rare, 
except in the Kumaon Hills, where outbreaks probably are not infrequent, these 

Chabt 25. 




Relapsing fever, showing two relapses from a case in Lahore, Punjab. 

may possibly occasionally spread to the plains, as appears to have happened 
in 1816. In the Punjab the disease is probably endemic in the north-western parts, 
while 3 cases occurred in the Lahore hospital in 1906, of which Chart 25 is 
an example ; but none in 1904 and 1905. The regular home of relapsing fever, 
however, is Bombay, where considerable numbers of cases are admitted to the 
native hospital every year, and are sent on to an infectious one as soon as their 
nature is recognized ; this is not always easy to do at once. Thus I find that in 
1906 eighty-seven cases of relapsing fever were admitted to the medical wards of the 
J. J. Hospital, five-eighths of which occurred in the first half of the year, and fewest 
in the wet months of July and August. It is noteworthy that Vandkye Carter 
found no cases of relapsing fever in the Bombay Hospital records before the epidemic 
years of 1876-78, so that the endemic prevalence there appears to date from that out- 
break. 

IN CHINA. — Relapsing fever occurs with typhus in the further East, where 
L. Hill found the spirillum in 1905 in Southern China. 

Professor L. M. Sandwith has also observed the disease in Egypt. 



INDIAN RELAPSING FEVER 151 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF RELAPSING FEVER IN INDIA 

The classical description of relapsing fever in the East is Vandyke Carter's 
book on Spirillum Fever published in 1882. It is based on a most minute analysis 
of some hundreds of cases verified by finding the spirUlum in the blood, the most 
important points of which are included in the following account of the disease. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVE.— By far the most characteristic feature of 
relapsing fever is the peculiar course of the pyrexia, so that it will be well to 
commence with this point. The ONSET of the fever is abrupt, usually without 
any previous indisposition, although shght malaise may be noted for a day or 
two. The fever begins most usually about sunset, and rarely in the morning 
(as occurs in so many malarial fevers). The patient begins to complain of 
chilliness, not amounting to an actual rigor. Severe headache, commonly 
frontal, pains in the back and hmbs, constipation and pain in the epigastrium, 
accompany the commencement of the fever. The temperature rises in a few 
hours to from 103° to 104*5°, the pulse to about 110 to 120 per minute and the 
respirations in proportion, and the pyrexia remains of the high continued type 
for six or seven days as a rule, although it is only in cases attacked in hospital 
that the full course is seen. In a series of such cases the duration of the primary, 
or invasion, attack varied from four to seven days, but in cases admitted later 
its duration, according to the histories obtained, not infrequently extended to 
as long as from eight to ten days and rarely slightly longer. Shortly before the 
critical fall the temperature reaches the acme, or its highest point, dUring wliich the 
symptoms are most severe and the danger greatest. The type of pjTexia is level 
in over one-third of the cases, frequently it descends, and less commonly it ascends 
or is convex. A mid descent is rare and a wavy curve quite uncommon. 
Critical exacerbations occur in not more than 10 per cent. 

THE CRISIS occurs most commonly on the sixth evening or night of the seventh 
day, often being preceded by a shght increase of the symptoms or by delirium. The 
main fall of temperature takes place within three or four hours, and is usually com- 
plete in six to twelve hours and reaches a sub-normal point. It is accompanied 
by copious sweats, persistent thirst, and often by symptoms of collapse. The pulse 
and respirations also decrease markedly, but to a less degree and more slowly 
than the temperature, while the pulse becomes small and weak from cardiac 
exhaustion and the surface cold. The pains disappear, and the tongue cleans in 
a day or two, but copious pale urine is secreted. Patients are often brought to 
hospital in this collapsed state, which may somewhat resemble at first sight that of 
cholera. 

THE FIRST APYRETIC INTERVAL lasts on an average for eight days, and 
varies from three to twelve days. During this period there is debility, but the 
temperature soon rises to normal from the sub-normal position at the end of the 
crisis, while the pulse and respiration gradually slow down to the normal rate. 



152 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

The tenderness of the liver, spleen and abdomen also soon subside. In one case 
in every six a sudden temporary rise of temperature, or rebound, occurs immediately 
after the crisis, without any spirilla in the blood ; or a secondary fever, due to some 
complication, such as pneumonia, may be seen. 

A SECOND ATTACK, OR FIRST RELAPSE, OR RECURRENCE, occurs in 
half the cases about the seventh day of apjrrexia, and closely resembles the first 
in its general character, but the fever may reach even a higher level, although 
usually it is of shorter duration. The temperature rises rapidly, sometimes with 
chilliness, although not until after the beginning of the rise. The type of the 
fever is continued in 26per cent., remittent in 70 per cent., and intermittent in the 
remaining 4 per cent. The daily range of temperature is greater than in the first 
attack, but rarely exceeds 2° F. The duration of the p3iTexia averages 4*53 days, 
and varies from one to seven days. The crisis is again abrupt, occurring usually 
at night or in the early morning, the temperature falling rapidly to sub-normal. 
During the second attack of fever pains apd abdominal symptoms are present, 
as in the first, but there is less enlargement of the liver and spleen, but more 
frequently sickness, and also jaundice late in the attack in one- third of the cases. 

A SECOND RELAPSE may follow after another apyrexial period averaging 
ten days, and thus longer than the first one. The duration of the fever in these 
third attacks is shorter than in the earher periods, being from two to four or five 
days, not uncommonly commencing with chills. The liver is normal, but the spleen 
is enlarged and tender in half the cases. The type of the fever is much less regular 
than in the earlier attacks, none being of the continued tj^e, while intermittent 
fever is nearly twice as common as the remittent form, and constitutes about 
half the attacks, while in another quarter only an isolated paroxysm occurred. 
The crisis in such modified relapses is seldom marked. 

THIRD RELAPSES still more rarely occur, and only after a prolonged interval 
of from fourteen to seventeen days, the duration of the fever being from one to 
three or four days, usually as an isolated paroxysm, the temperature rising abruptly, 
but remitting more gradually. 

A FOURTH RELAPSE was seen in I case only after a further interval of 
eleven days as a distinct isolated paroxysm of two days duration. 

In 98 out of 441 cases, or 23*8 per cent., no relapse took place, the fever being 
of the abortive type with one attack of p37rexia only. In 42 cases contracted 
in hospital, or inoculated, 21 "4 per cent, were abortive. In about 20 per cent, second 
relapses occurred, in 5 per cent, third ones, and in 2 per cent, only did a fourth 

relapse appear. 

* 

SPECIAL SYMPTOMS. — HEADACHE is an early and prominent symptom 
during the fever in 70 per cent, of first attacks, but less marked during relapses. 
It is usually frontal or extending to the temples, and rarely general or occipital 



INDIAN RELAPSING FEVER 



153 



only. It may recur without fever about the date of an expected relapse, or persist 
with lysis in bad cases. 

PAINS IN THE MUSCLES, JOINTS AND BONES are probably always present, 
and were complained of during the pyrexia in over 70 per cent, of cases, mostly in 
relapses. They were of a gnawing, aching or even intense character, and also met 
with in the nape of the neck and the loins. There was no local swelling, but the 
joint pains were especially persistent. 

SWEATS are common during remissions of the pyrexia, and especially at the 
crisis, when they may be very excessive in nine-tenths of the cases, acid in reaction, 
but free from spirilla. Sudamina may accompany them, most commonly at the 
root of the neck, or front of the body. THIRST is invariable during the fever, and 
may persist after the crisis. 

VOMITING occurred in 75 per cent, of cases seen in the early stages, but was 
noted in only 10 to 12 per cent, of those admitted late in the first attack and in 
20 per cent, of relapses. Usually it is not urgent, but may contain specks or streaks 
of blood, but black vomit is quite rare. 

THE TONGUE is generally dry with brown fur on the dorsum and red 
edges, with sometimes a strawberry appearance. It becomes moist with the fall of 
temperature and then soon clears. 

THE BOWELS are constipated in one-third of the cases at the invasion, 
and in 70 per cent, at the acme. Diarrhoea is rare until the close of a febrile attack, 
when a post critical flux may occur, especially in severe and fatal cases. Blood 
in the stools andgm-ghngin the right ihac fossa are rare, but dysentery may supervene 
as a complication in natives. 

EPIGASTRIC TENDERNESS AND DISTENSION were present in at least 20 
per cent, of first attacks, and in 30 per cent, of relapses of varying degree, and were 
often associated with muscular rigidity. 

THE LIVER showed some enlargement during the fever in 33 per cent, of 
surviving and in 50 per cent, of fatal cases, and in the apyretic intervals in 10 per 
cent. Pain and great tenderness were also often present, but in only one case 
was any inflammation of the serous coat found post mortem. 

THE SPLEEN was enlarged in nearly half the total cases, and in 75 per cent, 
of the fatal ones and 40 per cent, of survivors. It progressively enlarges during 
the pyrexial attacks, so is more frequently increased in size during the relapses 
than in the primary attack. During the non-febrile intervals it decreases to nearly 
the normal size, while pam over the organ disappears with the crisis. At the acme 
of the disease the spleen is enlarged in 90 per cent, of cases. Post-mortem enlarge- 
ment (one case weighing as much as 36 oz.) infarcts, softening, and very rarely 
inflammation were found. 



154 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



CIRCULATORY SYSTEM shows little change beyond the rapid soft pulse 
without any dicrotism. Epistaxis only occurred in 5 per cent., usually at the acme 
of the first attack. The right side of the heart may sometimes be found to be dis- 
tended post mortem, and also small petechial haemorrhages on especially the parietal 
pericardium, while the first sound is often weak at the crisis. Thrombosis of the 
femoral vein was met with once only. Spontaneous gangrene occurs. 

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. — In fatal cases congestion of the lungs and 
pneumonia are common. In half the cases cough with slight bronchial conges- 
tion, frothy expectoration, and in 54 per cent, of invasion attacks, coarse moist 
sounds are present, which may pass on to bronchitis and pneumonia, the former 
being rare ^vithout the latter. 

THE URINE contains a trace of albumen during the pyrexia in 1 case in 
6, especially at the acme of the first attack ; but no evidence of organic disease 
was met with. 

JAUNDICE was noted in 15 per cent, of surviving cases, most frequently during 
an invasion attack, but also in 56 per cent, of fatal ones, in whom it is often very 
marked. 

RASH. — Vandyke Carter describes and figm-es an eruption which occurred 
in 10 per cent, of the cases. It is rare before the fourth day, and commonest at 
the acme of either the first attack, or a relapse, and may persist during the apyrexial 
interval. It appears on the front and sides of the chest or abdomen, or on the arms, 
but more rarely on the legs, as clusters of minute red blotches or stains from the 
size of a pin's head to a pea, hardly raised, flattened, circular or irregular with well 
defined edges, and not effaced by pressure. They sometimes fade rapidly, but 
more often become dark purple and last several days, while they may also become 
petechial. They are usually few in number, from six to twenty-four or more, and 
were not seen in infants. They rather resemble those of typhus in appearance, 
and of typhoid in their grouping, but they have also been observed in remittent 
fevers and pneumonia, and therefore are not specific of relapsing fever. 

LESS COMMON COMPLICATIONS. — Cerebral haemorrhage was found in 
one-sixth of the autopsies affecting the pia-arachnoid membranes, mainly on the 
vertex, from 2 to 8 ozs. of blood being effused. It produced unconsciousness about 
the end of the fever, and was always fatal. The conjunctiva may also show 
ecchymoses. Parotid inflammation or suppuration occurred in 2 to 3 per cent. 
Congestion and minute petechiae occur in the stomach, while fatal haematemisis was 
twice seen, but was not accompanied by jaundice, as is the case in yellow fever. 
Congestion, inflammation, and petechiae are also found not infrequently in the 
intestines post mortem, especially when diarrhoea has been present during life. 
These changes are most marked in the ileum, but no ulceration was ever found, 
while the Peyer's patches very seldom showed any congestion, and the mesenteric 
glands were always healthy, so that the lesions never resemble those of typhoid 
fever. 



INDIAN RELAPSING FEVER 



166 



CLINICAL MODIFICATIONS OF RELAPSING FEVER 

Cases of this fever, in which both the crisis of the invasion attack and also 
one or more relapses are seen, can hardly be confused with any other disease, and 
are readily recognizable chnically. In practice, however, the patients often only 
come under observation after the first crisis, when in a more or less collapsed con- 
dition, while the spirillum is absent from the blood, and the case may not become 
clear until the parasite reappears with the recurrence of pyrexia after about seven 
days' interval. Such cases are frequently seen in the Bombay hospitals at the 
present day, and often cannot be diagnosed until the relapse occurs. More difficult 
still may be the numerous cases admitted late in the invasion attack who do not 
suffer from any relapse, although the crisis is frequently sufficiently characteristic to 
be of diagnostic value. 

In addition to the above difficulties in typical cases, still greater ones arise 
where the disease runs an atypical course. In the first place, it is by no means 
very rare for the primary and sole attack to be short and somewhat irregular, so 
much so that at least one-fourth of Vandyke Carter's cases were of obscure, irregular, 
or anomalous character, and were recognized only by the presence of spirilla in the 
blood, by which test alone many aberrant forms were detected. The variations 
from the typical course may be in two different directions. In the first place the 
fever may be of a short, irregular remittent type, instead of a continued type, and 
thus closely simulate a malarial fever, and such cases can only be detected by 
finding the spirillum in the blood. 

A second, and still more important, variation, is a prolongation of the pyrexia 
so as to cause the disease to resemble very closely typhus fever. These cases were 
described by Carter under the term ICTERIC FEVER, or biUous remittent fever. 
They constitute an unusually fatal form of relapsing or spirillum fever, distinguished 
by deep jaundice, generally accompanied by an eruption of red spots or petechiae, 
and irregular prolonged pyrexia, early prostration, and a tendency to locaUzed 
inflammations. They form about 5 per cent, of admissions, and 15 to 20 per cent, 
of the fatal cases. The pyrexia is typical in the invasion, althougli somewhat 
below the mean throughout, and often persisting for seven or eight days, and tending 
to fall by lysis in the worst cases. Intense jaundice is invariable and appears 
early ^vith great depression, while a typhoid-like state was very common. The 
death rate was 70 per cent., and in 14 out of 20 cases the spirillum was 
found, while there were reasons for regarding the others as true relapsing fever 
simulating typhus, the latter being unknown in Bombay. These cases were 
also mistaken for yellow fever, which is absent from the East, while black vomit 
was never present in these jaundiced cases. 

An outbreak of relapsing fever with some similar typhus-Hke cases has recently 
been described by W. T. McCowen, I.M.S., at Surur in the Bombay Presidency, 
and similar ones appear to have been present in the Chaman Railway outbreak 
already mentioned, so their occurrence should always be borne in mind, and the 
spirillum sought for in the blood. 



156 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE MORTALITY of relapsing fever in 616 cases of Vandyke Carter where the 
spirillum was found in the blood was 18*02 per cent., and among 69 contagion cases 
in hospital it was 26* 1 per cent. These figures are much higher than in European 
outbreaks, which were 4 per cent, in British hospitals, 4' 3 to 7*2 in Breslau, and 
14'97 at St. Petersburg in 1865. The difference is partly, but not altogether, due to 
the famine condition of many of the patients. A little over half the deaths occurred 
at the acme of the first attack, about one-fourth in the first interval, one-fifteenth 
in the first relapse, and the rest later, often with compHcations such as pneumonia, 
cerebral haemorrhage or exhaustion. 

Prolonged irregular first attack ending by lysis, and marked jaundice, as in 
the bilious form, are of bad prognostic import. 

THE BLOOD CHANGES IN RELAPSING FEVER 

The number of red corpuscles and the percentage of haemoglobin are said 
to be somewhat reduced during each febrile period. More marked are the changes 
in the white corpuscles, leucocytosis of the polynuclear type being associated with 
the fever paroxysms, reaching its height about the time of the crisis, but persisting 
for a day or two only after it. Phagocytosis of the spirilla also occurs. This increase 
of the leucocytes is an important help in differentiating the fever from typhoid, 
malaria, and other fevers unaccompanied by an increase in the white corpuscles. 

THE SPIRILLUM OBERMEIERI is, however, the most important feature of 
the blood changes, for it is present throughout the febrile paroxysms in increasing 
numbers, but disappears rapidly from the peripheral blood at the time of the crisis, 
and is absent during the apyrexial interval. The organisms can be readily seen 
in fresh unstained blood as spiral thread-like bodies with active movement, often 
radiating from a common centre. They stain easily with fuchsin, or Romanosky's 
stain, including its many modifications ; they are best seen with an immersion lens 
on account of their extreme thinness. 

LOWENTHAL'S REACTION.— The difficulty in diagnosing relapsing fever 
microscopically dm*ing the intervals with no spirilla in the blood can be got over 
by Lowenthal's ingenious method. A drop of blood from the suspected cases 
is mixed with another drop containing spiriUa from a case in the febrile stage, 
sealed under a cover-glass, and incubated at blood heat at least for half an hour. 
If the case is not relapsing fever, the majority of the organisms will still be motile, 
but if they have become quite motionless and clumped in regular masses, a control 
specimen giving a negative result not more than two and a half hours after, 
relapsing fever can be safely diagnosed 

DIAGNOSIS. — ^A tjrpical relapsing fever is easily distinguished from any form 
of malarial fever by, its sustained high temperature without the remissions and inter- 
missions of the latter disease. During relapses, especially the later ones, a markedly 
remittent or intermittent curve may be seen, which can only be surely differentiated 
by a microscopical examination of the blood. Similarly the typhus-like cases 



INDIAN RELAPSING FEVER 157 

can often only be diagnosed by finding tlie spirillum. The disease can rarely be 
mistaken for typhoid on account of the much longer pyrexia terminating by a slow 
lysis of the latter disease, which also usually shows general abdominal distension, 
and iliac tenderness instead of the epigastric distress of relapsing fever. YeUow 
fever is onlj'^ superficially simulated by the biUous form of relapsing fever, but black 
vomit is absent in the latter disease. The more continued type of seven day fever 
might for a time possibly be mistaken for relapsing fever during an outbreak of the 
latter disease, but the symptoms are less severe, while the slow pulse of this disease 
is never seen during high temperature in relapsing fever, which, moreover, is as 
rare hi Europeans in India as seven day fever is common among them. 

TREATMENT. — There is no specific treatment jfet known for this disease, 
while the fact that one attack does not protect for any appreciable time against 
a second one leave little hope of a serum treatment being established. Various 
drugs kill the spiriUum in weak solutions, such as carbolic acid, quinine, salicylate 
of soda, permanganate of potash, but none of them have proved of much value in 
therapeutical doses. SaUcylates and quinine appear to have some slight value, 
while mild aperients early in the fever, cold sponging, stimulants in the later critical 
stages, together with warmth during the collapse which follows the crisis. Bromides 
and chloral may be useful as nervous sedatives, and cardiac tonics are iHdicated 
if the pulse is weak. For constipation only very mild laxatives, such as castor oil, 
should be given, while fomentations over the epigastrium, the liver and spleen may 
afford rehef. Any complications, such as pneumonia, require appropriate treatment. 

INFECTION AND PROPHYLAXSIS 

The question of infection is carefully discussed by Vandyke Carter, who brought 
forward much evidence to show that the disease spreads by contagion. Thus 
it was introduced into Bombay in 1877 by immigrants from the famine districts, 
and first spread to those classes of Bombay people who were in closest association 
with the infected visitors. It spread through families into which it had been intro- 
duced for several weeks, attacking the members at a few days interval, few 
escaping, although their neighbours commonly remained free. In hospital 1 in 
4 of the cUnical clerks, 1 in 15 of the hospital estabfishment, and 1 in 25 
of the patients of the medical wards, into which relapsing fever patients were 
admitted, contracted the disease, but no single case arose in the surgical wards 
of the same hospitals. In six cases inoculation of the disease at post mortems 
occurred, these including 2 attacks in Vandyke Carter himself with an interval 
of two and a quarter years between them. The INCUBATION period of these last 
varied from three and a half to seven days, more usually seven days. In Russia 
inoculations of the disease produced infection in from five to eight days. The 
infection is destroyed by drying the blood, and Carter thought it was probably 
carried by cutaneous transpiration and the breath of the sick, although he did 
not succeed in demonstrating the spirillum in either. There was no evidence of 
the spread ot the disease by the urine or faeces, and no cases occurred among 



158 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



the hospital washermen. In hospital it did not spread specially to patients in beds 
contiguous to cases of the disease. V. Carter notes that the disease produced by 
inoculation precisely resembles that acquired through ordinary channels, both in 
the time of advent and in general character, but he makes no mention of 
biting insects as possible carriers of the infection. 

Quite recently the question of the mode of infection of relapsing fever in Bombay 
has been investigated by F. Percival Mackie, I.M.S. On examining bedbugs at 
various intervals after being fed on monkeys infected with the disease, the spirilla 
were found up to the fourth and seventh day respectively in two series of experi- 
ments, in the upper part of the alimentary tract only, together with fresh blood. 
Out of fifty-three bugs from the relapsing fever ward spirilla were only found in 
the stomach of one. Of six monkeys into whose cages fed bugs were frequently 
placed, only one contracted the disease. Dr. Mackie also informs me that the 
disease can be transmitted by the punctures of a grooved needle carrying a trace 
of fresh blood, so that it appears to be not unlikely that mosquitoes might thus 
convey it from one patient to another, which would account for the infection in 
wards not being most commonly between neighbouring beds, as Vandkye Carter 
pointed out. For this reason mosquitoes may be a more likely carrying agent 
than bedbugs, and are worthy of close attention. The disease was also transmitted 
by oral 'feeding with shghtly larger quantities of blood, the incubation stage being 
prolonged to four or five days. Blood drawn during an apyxetic interval, with no 
spiriUa in the blood, also infected monkeys, the fever developing late at the same 
time that a relapse occurred in the man from whom it had been taken. Dr. Mackie 
also considers that the spirillum of relapsing fever in Bombay presents some mor- 
phological differences from the Spirillum Obermeieri of Europe and America, while 
it is not agglutinated by a serum prepared by Novy, which acts powerfully on the 
spirillum of temperate cHmates. For similar reasons Novy and Knop, and Brueil 
and Kinghom consider the organism of African relapsing or tick fever to be distinct, 
and have caUed the organism Spirillum Duttoni, after the brilliant scientist who 
lost his life while working at the disease in the Congo Free State. Mackie, there- 
fore, suggests the very suitable name of Spirillum Carteri for the Indian variety 
of the disease, the mortality of which is also much higher than its European cogener, 
having varied, according to Dr. Chowsky between 32 and 43 per cent, among nearly 
3,916 cases in the last seven years in the infectious hospital at Bombay. Now that 
African relapsing fever has been shown by Dutton and Todd to be carried by the 
ticks, further work will no doubt soon clear up the mode of infection of the Indian 
form of the disease, and thus aUow the great loss of life caused by it to be checked, 
and thus add one more triumph to modern medical research. 



AFRICAN TICK FEVER 

Another variety of relapsing fever produced by a spirillum infection has been 
known in Africa since the days of Livingstone as tick fever, although the spiro- 
chaeta was only found in 1904 by P. H. Ross and A. D. Milne in Uganda. Dutton 



I 



k 



AFRICAN TICK FEVER 159 

and Todd studied the disease on the Congo, and succeeded in conveying the infection 
by the bites of a tick (Ornithodoros moubata) previously fed on the blood of a 
patient infected with the disease. They also proved that the disease can be trans- 
mitted by the larvae hatched from the eggs of an infected tick. A warm tempera- 
ture appears to be required for the development within the tick, which accounts for 
the absence of infection on the higher parts of Central East Africa. The organisms 
are very scantily present in the blood, and thus often require long search of stained 
specimens with an oil-immersion lens for their demonstration. Polynuclear leucocy- 
tosis is well marked. Romanosky's method and its modifications stain the organ- 
isms well 

In Europeans the disease is a severe one, beginning with a rapid rise of tempera- 
ture to 104 or 105 F., with intense headache and vomiting, which may become 
bilious. The pyrexia lasts for from one to three days and ends by crisis, faUing 
to below normal with disappearance of the symptoms. After an interval, which may 
vary from one day to three weeks, a relapse occurs of nearly equal severity with the 
initial attack, and they are usually repeated five or six times, or sometimes consider- 
ably oftener, but with increasingly long ap3rrexial intervals. Death is very rare, 
but great weakness remains for some time. In natives the disease runs a much 
milder course, and relapses are rare, a considerable degree of immunity having been 
produced by repeated attacks. In monkeys the disease runs a long course with 
relapses, in which it differs from Indian relapsing fever. The use of the microscope 
is necessary to differentiate this fever from malaria. 

No drug treatment has any specific value. The prophylaxis consists in avoiding 
tick-infected huts and sites. 

RELAPSING FEVER REFERENCES 

1836. Guthrie, Hugh, and Macnab, D. Trans. Med. and Phys. Soc. of Calcutta, Vol. VIII, 

Part 2, pp. 189 and 230. 
1852-3. Lyall, Robert. Indian Annals of Medical Science. Xo. 3, p. 16. 
1867. Smith, David Boyes. Indian Medical Gazettes for 1867-8. 
1877. Carter, H. Vandyke. Notes on the Spirillum Fever of Bombay. Med.-Chir. Trans., 

Vol. LXI, p. 274. 
1882. Carter, H. Vandyke. Spirillum Fever. J. and A. Churchill, London. 
1880. Chevers, Norman. Indian Relapsing Fever. Trans. Epidemiological Soc. 
1892. Pisani, L. J. Report on the Fever on the Chaman Extension Railway. Ind. Med. 

Gaz., pp. 1, 71 and 100. 
1897. Pisani, L. J. The Pathology of Relapsing Fever. Thacker, Spink & Co., Calcutta. 
1899. Rogers, Leonard. Relapsing Fever (Sunjar) in the Kamaon Himalayas. Ind. Med. 

Gaz., p. 159. 
1902. Christy, C. Spirillum Fever (Relapsing Fever) at Ahmednagar, Bombay. Jotir. 

Trop. Med., p. 39. 
1902. Nuttall, G. H. F. Note on the Supposed Transmission of Plague by Fleas and of 

Relapsing Fever by Bed Bugs. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 65. 
1904. Sandwith, F. W, Relapsing Fever in Egypt. Pract., May. 

1904. Ross, P. H., and Milne, A. D., Tick Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, p. 1453. 

1905. Button, J. E., and Todd, J. L. The Nature of Human Tick Fever in the Eastern Part 

of the Congo Free State. Liv. School Trop. Med. Mem., XVTI. 



160 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

1905. Wiraberley, C. N. C. Spirillum Fever in India. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 232. 

1905. Turnbull, W. B. Spirillum Fever in India. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 319. 

1905. Walker, F. A, Spirillum Fever in India. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 320. 

1905. Hill, L. Spirillum Fever in South China. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 131. 

1905. Browse, G. Relapsing Fever near Nowshera. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 532. 

1906. Cox, W. H. Relapsing Fever in the 109th Infantry. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 138. 
1906. Desai, V. G. A Clinical Picture of Relapsing Fever. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 215. 

1905. McCowen, W, T. Bilious Relapsing Fever. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 387. 

1906. Novj^ and ICnop. Studies in Spirillum Obermeieri and Related Organisms. Jour, of 

Infectious Diseases, Vol. Ill, Part 3, p. 291. 

1906. Breinl, A. and Kinghom, A. Animal Reactions of the Spirochete of African Tick Fever. 

Liverpool School of Trop. Med. Memoir, XXI. 

1907. Mackie, L. P. Preliminary Note on Bombay Spirillum Fever. Scientific Memoirs of 

India. New series. 



I 



V. MALTA OR UNDULANT FEVER 

SYNONYMS. — Malta Fever ; Mediterranean fever ; Rock or Gibraltar fever ; 
and Undulant fever, the last being a convenient term suggested by Hughes to 
avoid the errors incidental to the former geographical names, Malta fever, how- 
ever, is the name in most general use, while nearly aU our knowledge of the disease 
has been obtained through researches carried out in that island, mainly by the 
Oflficers of the Royal Army Medical Corps. 

HISTORY OF THE DIFFERENTIATION OF MALTA FEVER.— Louis 
Hughes, R.A.M.C., in his work on Undulant, Malta or Mediterranean fever, gives 
a fuU account and bibUography of the earher writings on the subject. It will 
suffice here to mention that he came to the conclusion that the disease has been 
endemic in Malta and Gibraltar, at least since the beginning of the nineteenth century, 
and probably for much longer, but that it was not recognized as a distinct type 
of fever until 1859, when Marston took up the question. He pubUshed an exhaustive 
description of it under the name of " Mediterranean remittent or gastric remittent 
fever " with post mortem reports, and clearly distinguished between it and typhoid 
fever, in a paper in the Army Medical Blue-book of 1863. Another very important 
contribution is that of Surgeon-Major Veale in the Army Medical Report, pubhshed 
in 1881, in which he describes cases of Malta fever seen at Netley and draws a clear 
distinction between it and malarial fever. 

It was not, however, until by his classical researches Colonel David Bruce, 
of the Royal Army Medical Corps, discovered the Micrococcus MeUtensis in the 
spleens of Malta fever cases in 1886, isolated it in pure culture and reproduced 
the disease in monkeys, from which he again recovered the organism, that the 
specific nature of Malta fever was firmly established. Hughes soon after confirmed 
this important discovery, and wrote an excellent monograph on the disease. 

HISTORY OF MALTA OR UNDULANT FEVER IN THE EAST.— The 
discovery of the serum test for. typhoid and its extension by Sir A. E. Wright to 
the diagnosis of Malta fever enabled him, with F. Smith and D. Semple, R.A.M.C., 
to demonstrate the occurrence of Malta fever in India and Hong Kong by obtaining 
reactions in high dilutions of from 1 in 160 to 1 in 1,000 in soldiers invalided to 
Netley from those countries. The patients from India all came from the Punjab, 
and some of them had never served in Mediterranean stations. In 1899 Birt and 
Lamb carefully studied the serum test for Malta fever at Netley by means of Wright's 

161 11 



162 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

macroscopical test with dead sterilized cultures {see p. 26). They obtained 
only incomplete reactions up to 1 in 10 in controls, but never complete ones even 
at that dilution. On the other hand, in Malta fever cases the average dilution 
giving a complete reaction was between 1 in 600 and 1 in 700. Among 44 cases 
tested in high dilutions 72 per cent, gave complete reactions in dilutions of from 
1 in 100 to 1 m 1,000 or over, while in only 6 per cent, were reactions of less than 
1 in 50 obtained. In monkeys infected with the disease Wright and Semple obtained 
serum reactions as early as the fifth day. In 1900 Lamb obtained complete 
reactions by the same method up to 1 in 100 in 4 fever cases in Bombay and 
to 1 in 20 in a fifth, and in the following year E. W. Greig, I.M.S., obtained 
similar results in 3 cases in the Swat valley (Punjab frontier). 

Up to this time the reported cases had been nearly all verified by serum reactions 
in high dilutions, but during the next few years very numerous cases of fever were 
diagnosed as Malta fever in the Punjab and Bombay on the strength of reactions 
in dilutions of only from 1 in 10 to 1 in 40, many of the patients showing none of 
the classical symptoms of the disease, and in the 1902 report of the Sanitary Com- 
missioner with the Government of India attention was dra^\^l to this fact, and it 
was pointed out that even a reaction in a dilution of 1 in 80 was not sufficiently 
high to be of undoubted specific value, and many of the cases returned as Malta 
fever as a result of lower reactions were extremely doubtful. In 1902 kala-azar 
was declared by A. Bentley to be " Epidemic Malta fever " on the strength of a 
few reactions in dilutions of from 1 in 10 to 1 in 40, but as I was unable to get even 
such low reactions in kala-azar with the microscopical serum test, I made some 
observations on the blood in other diseases, and obtained serum reactions with Malta 
fever cocci in low dilutions in cholera and dysentery, etc. Powell in Bombay and 
Cornwall in Madras also obtained similar results, and in the Sanitary Commissioner 
for India's report for 1904 (published in 1905), it was admitted that the cultures of 
the micrococcus mehtensis, which had been largely used in some parts of India, gave 
sedimentation in Wright's tubes with normal sera in dilutions of 1 in 40 and in some 
instances up to 1 in 80. Thus much doubt was thrown on the view that Malta 
fever is a very common disease in various parts of India, and although the reactions 
in high dilutions of Wright made it certain that it does occur in the East, bacterio- 
logical examinations for the micrococcus melitensis were still wanting. 

In 1905 G. Lamb and M. K. Pai isolated cocci from the spleens of 11 cases, 
which proved to be identical with that found by Bruce in Malta fever of Europe, 
and clumped completely in dilutions of 1 in 600 or more of a serum made with the 
coccus of Malta fever, thus the identity of the disease in India was at last 
estabhshed. They also reproduced the fever in monkeys with the Indian coccus. 
In 6 more cases they obtained the serum reaction in dilutions of from 1 in 80 to 
1 in 640. These cases mostly occurred in native regiments in the Punjab. W. C. H. 
Forster, I.M.S., has recently met with cases of Malta fever at Ferozepore, and found 
infection in goats. C. N. C. Wimberley has also met with 12 cases in the same 
station, and states that he has seen the disease in five other Punjab cantonments ; 
thus it is evidently a widespread disease in North- Western India. 



MALTA FEVER — DISTRIBUTION 163 

DISTRIBUTION OF MALTA FEVER IN THE EAST.— Omitting the doubtful 
cases diagnosed solely by admittedly unreliable serum tests in the absence of 
clinical symptoms of Malta fever, our knowledge of the exact prevalence of Malta 
fever in the East is still very deficient. That it occurs in the Punjab as an indi- 
genous, as well as an imported disease, is now certain, and in some stations 
of that province it is by no means very rare. On the other hand, during an 
examination of three years' fever records of the large Medical College Hos- 
pital at Lahore, the capital of the Punjab, I found only 4 cases of Malta fever, 
3 of which had been verified by a serum reaction in a high dilution. Lamb 
and Pai also give 2 cases from Lahore with high serum reactions. Further, 
the smallness of this number of cases is not due to the disease having been 
overlooked, for among the whole of the three years' charts there were only 6 
cases in which the p3n'exial curve resembled in the least degree in duration 
and character those of Malta fever, 4 of which were returned as malaria and 
1 as " remittent fever." During the same period 40 cases of typhoid had 
been under treatment, so that it is clear that Malta fever is a comparatively rare 
disease in Lahore, although it may be more common in other stations of the Punjab. 

In the United Provinces, as far as we yet know, Malta fever appears to be 
rarer even than in the Punjab, for in the large station hospital for British troops 
at Bareilly I found only 1 case returned as that disease in two years, and no 
other cases which appeared to be likely to have been Malta fever. It will probably 
be found to occur most in the western part of the province bordering on the Punjab. 

In Calcutta, Malta fever has been seen in sailors, who contracted the disease 
in the Mediterranean, but no indigenous case is known unless one patient from 
Calcutta, in whom Lamb obtained a serum reaction at Netley, was infected there. 
During eighteen months I tested the serum reaction for Malta fever of the blood 
of every fever case of more than a few days' duration in both the European and 
native hospitals of Calcutta, amounting to over 150 cases, two different strains 
of the coccus being used in the course of the investigation. The results were uni- 
formly negative, so it is at least certain that Malta fever is very rare in Lower 
Bengal, if indeed it occurs at all. The bloods of a number of long fevers from 
Assam, mostly kala-azar, also gave negative results. 

Madras, again, appears to be as free from Malta fever as Calcutta, for I could 
obtain no reliable evidence of it having occurred there when recently investigating 
the incidence of fevers in that city. 

In Bombay Malta fever has been proved to occur, although it is now con- 
sidered to be much rarer than was thought a short time back during the regime 
of the low dilution serum tests. An examination of two years' records of both 
the European and native hospitals showed no case returned as Malta fever, and 
exceedingly few which could possibly have been of that nature. Major Childe, 
First Physician of the J. J. Hospital, showed me charts of 2 or 3 cases he 
had met with, but he regards them as being very rare in Bombay. Dr. Powell 
found no case of the disease among over 3,413 consecutive fever cases he investigated 
in the police hospital, Bombay, over a period of two and a half years. Malta fever, 



164 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

then, does occur in Bombay, but only very occasionally. Thus, in India, it 
appears to be common in the Punjab only. 

Sir A. E. Wright obtained a high serum reaction in a case from Hong Kong, 
andManson thinks he saw the disease in China, but I have found no clear evidence 
of its occurrence there in the medical reports of the China Imperial Maritime Customs. 
But little appears to be yet known regarding the distribution of Malta fever in 
Asia, apart from its occurrence in India. In the Naval reports of the ten years 
from 1895 to 1904 I find 29 cases of Malta fever reported in the China squadron, 
and 5 in the East Indian stations. Most of these were in sailors infected in the 
Mediterranean, and they afford no evidence of Malta fever being contracted in the 
East. 

A BRIEF CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF MALTA FEVER AS SEEN IN EUROPE 

A clinical description of Malta fever as seen in India, based on an analysis 
of full notes of a considerable series of cases, is still wanting, and it is to be hoped 
that workers in the Punjab wUl soon supply the deficiency. In the meantime 
the following short account of the disease in Europe, mainly based on Hughes' 
monograph, may be of use to workers in the tropics. 

TYPES OF MALTA FEVER. — The course of the disease is so variable that 
Hughes found it convenient to divide it up into three main t3rpes, between which 
intermediate forms occur leading from one to the other. 

1. The MALIGNANT TYPE is the most acute variety, often commencing 
suddenly and causing death in from five to twenty-one days, sometimes with hyper- 
pyrexia, or passing into the undulatory form. The temperature is commonly of 
the high continued type, and may reach 104° or 105°, closely resembling the 
chart of typhoid. There is epigastric, splenic and hepatic tenderness, hypostatic 
congestion of the lungs or basal pneumonia, offensive breath, and sometimes frequent 
offensive loose brown motions. The temperature seldom remains of the high 
continued type for more than a week or ten days, but tends to early become markedly 
remittent, in which it differs from typhoid, but the " typhoid state " may be well 
marked in the worst cases. This malignant type is fortunately rare. 

2. The UNDULATORY TYPE is the commonest variety of the disease. It 
shows intermittent waves or imdulations of more or less remittent pyrexia, of 
variable length, separated from each other by periods of temporary abatement 
or absence of symptoms. The duration of the fever varies from twenty to three 
hundred days, the average being sixty days and the stay in hospital ninety days. 
At its height the remittent temperature reaches 103° to 105°, but after a time it 
gradually declines, so that it is normal in the morning and but sHghtly raised in 
the afternoon, but after a few days it begins to rise once more to form a second 
remittent wave. This is repeated again and again, with a tendency for the waves 
in any given case to resemble the primary one, but generally decreasing in length 



MALTA FEVER— TYPES 



165 



and severity as the case progresses. The waves average ten days in length, while 
in only one-fourth of them did it exceed three weeks. The number of waves varied 
from'one to seven and averaged three, while the intervals varied from oie to ten 



Chart 26. 




L 



Malta fever from a case in Lahore, Punjab. Serum reaction positive in a dilution of 1 in 320 

on the nineteenth day. 

days, and averaged between three and four. The typical temperature chart is» 
therefore, a series of waves or undulations of remittent pyrexia. Chart 26 illustrates 
Malta fever in the Punjab, India ; for this I am indebted to Major 0. B. Sutherland, 
I.M.S. 

3. The INTERMITTENT TYPE, beginning insidiously and running a shorter 
and milder course than the previous types, with intermittent fever varying from 
normal to 100° in the morning, up to from 99° to 101° or more in the evening. This 
intermittent fever of a hectic type, but without any initial rigor, may continue 
for months with no other symptoms except night sweats, constipation and increasing 
debility and anaemia. If the temperature is taken frequently so as to record the 
daily highest point, it will be found that shght undulations take place also in this 
intermittent type 

The general symptoms are the following. The onset is usually insidious, 
and accompanied by lassitude. But rarely the dull heavy look of typhoid. Decu- 
bitus is lateral, except in very severe cases. There is no rash, but sudamina, prickly 
heat or boils may appear. A disagreeable or offensive odour from the skin and 
breath is nearly always present ; the hair may fall out extensively, but not per- 
manently, and the nails become grooved. There is copious acid sweating with 
each marked remission or intermission, especially at night. Pains in the back or 
all over, and headache, usually frontal, but sometimes occipital, are complained 
of, while in 75 per cent, of the cases neuralgic pains are experienced as symptoms 
or sequelae, usually at a late stage of the disease, such as facial or cranial neuralgia, 
lumbago or sciatica. Hughes has also recorded shght paralyses, without loss 
of reflexes, as a very rare complication. 

JOINT SYMPTOMS. — In no less than 40 per cent, of the cases an acute or 
sub-acute effusion into one or more joints occurs, usually commencing suddenly 



166 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

without any apparent reason. The acute affections occur somewhat early in the 
disease and usually attack only one joint, most commonly the shoulder, hip or 
knee. Swelling and effusion into the joint, without redness, but with excruciating 
pain on the sUghtest movement, or even at rest, are present ; these require fomenta- 
tions and morphia for their rehef , and salicylates have h'ttle or no good effect. The 
acute symptoms subside in a few hours, and the swelling and pain disappear in 
three or four days, but may recur in another joint. The sub-acute form occurs 
late in the undulant form of the disease, or early in the intermittent type, as an 
effusion into one or more joints, accompanied by a slight increase of the pyrexia, 
and tending to pass from the larger to the smaller joints, such as the phalangeal 
of the hand or foot. Neither suppuration nor ankylosis ensue in either form, but 
stiffness may remain for weeks or months. Joint symptoms are said to be more 
frequent in those who have previously suffered from rheumatism. They may 
follow a chill, and are less frequent in those patients who wear flannel next the 
skin. 

CIRCULATORY SYSTEM.— Hughes saw fatal pericarditis in 2 cases. This 
was not recognized until the patient was dying, although 15 to 17 oz. of fluid were 
present at the autopsies, without any lymph deposit, the onset having been insi- 
dious. The pulse may be slow, relatively, to the temperature and respirations 
at first, but becomes rapid in malignant or long continued cases, when haemic 
murmurs may also accompany anaemia. Swelling and oedema of the legs is common 
during early convalescence. 

THE SPLEEN nearly always extends below the ribs, and is often much enlarged 
and tender in mahgnant cases. After the second month of long attacks it fre- 
quently shrinks again. Slight swelhng of the lymphatic glands without suppuration, 
especially in those of the neck and groin, also occurs. 

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM.— EPISTAXIS rarely occurs in the early stages. 
The LUNGS frequently show signs of bronchitis, usually about the beginning of 
the third week, with frothy or viscid expectoration, which may persist to some 
extent throughout the p3rrexial periods. Later, in 95 per cent, of the cases, some 
hypostatic congestion appears, which in mahgnant cases goes on to lobular con- 
sohdation and hypostatic pneumonia, which latter plays a large part in producing 
fatal results. In some cases only a few rhonchi or crepitations may be present at 
the apices, which, together with the hectic temperature and the night sweats, may 
lead to an erroneous diagnosis of early phthisis. Cough without physical signs, and 
a form of dry pleurisy producing adhesions, or one with shght effusion, may be 
met with. 

ALIMENTARY SYSTEM.— The TONGUE is thickly coated on the dorsum, 
with pink edges, but without the raw red appearance of typhoid. Its condition 
varies roughly in proportion to the pyrexia, and it is rarely quite clean until the 
fever finally ceases, but remains lightly furred in the temporary apyrexial periods. 



MALTA FEVER— CLINICAL COURSE 167 

A sub-normal temperature for a few days with a clean tongue is an almost sure 
sign that the disease has really come to an end. Loss of appetite, foul taste in the 
mouth, feeble digestive powers and epigastric tenderness nearly always occur. 
Occasionally nausea or even vomiting is met with. The iliac tenderness of 
typhoid is absent. Tympanites is also rare and seldom marked. 

THE LIVER is often sUghtly enlarged and tender, both early in severe cases 
and towards the end of prolonged attacks, a nutmeg congestion occurring in the 
latter class. 

THE BOWELS were constipated in 81 per cent, of Hughes' cases, this being 
the rule in non-malignant forms. Diarrhoea is common in malignant cases, and 
occurred in 4 per cent, of the total. The bowels were normal in only 12 per cent., 
while in the remaining cases there was constipation alternating with diarrhoea. 
The association of diarrhoea with severe cases is shown by the fact that it occurred 
in 13 out of 22 fatal cases, usually as frequent loose light o£Fensive, watery, but 
very rarely pea-soupy stools, dependent on marked congestion of especially the 
large bowel. 

URINARY AND SEXUAL SYSTEM.— In the early stages with much sweating 
the urine may be decreased and high coloured, but inclines to the opposite condition 
later. Albumen is rarely present, even in fatal cases. The fever does not produce 
abortion. 

EPIDIDIMITIS AND ORCHITIS occur in about 4 or 5 per cent, of cases as a 
late symptom. In the more acute form it produces very painful swelling, with 
some effusion into the tunica vaginahs, subsiding in a few days to leave the organ 
slightly enlarged and tender. A sub-acute form also occurs with enlargement 
of the epididimis and slight tenderness, subsiding in a few days under rest and 
support. 

THE BLOOD. — According to D. Bruce and P. W. Bassett-Smith there is a 
moderate degree of secondary anaemia in the later stages of Malta fever, amounting 
to a loss of from 20 to 40 per cent, of the red corpuscles. The white corpuscles 
show little change in their total numbers, being slightly high according to some, 
but Bassett-Smith never found more than 6,600. The differential leucocyte count 
shows a decrease of the proportion of the polynuclears, and an increase of the 
mononuclears, including the large forms, the total proportion of both large and 
small having varied from 26 to 76 in Bassett-Smith's cases. 

The absence of any marked reduction of the white corpuscles is thus an import- 
ant guide in the distinction of Malta fever from kala-azar, but the differential 
leucocyte count is of no help in this respect. 

SERUM TEST. — Of much greater value than the above changes is the power 
of the blood serum to agglutinate the M. meUtensis in high dilutions, for it affords 



168 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

a certain method of diagnosing this frequently very puzzhng fever. The method 
of carrying out the test is described on pp. 24-26, but the important point of the 
value of reactions in different dilutions must be referred to here. There is consider- 
able difference of opinion as to what degree of dilution is necessary to give reliable 
results, but in view of the errors which have arisen in India by trusting to low 
dilutions with what proved to be an unreliable strain of the organism, it is well 
to err on the safe side, especially as most cases give high reactions. Craig in the 
United States prefers a dilution of 1 in 75, but E. A. Shaw and Bassett-Smith 
consider 1 in 30 sufficient, if properly carried out. I prefer to put up the blood 
in dilutions of 1 in 40, 1 in 80 and 1 in 160, and to only look on 1 in 80 as a certainly 
diagnostic reaction, and 1 in 40 as in a suspicious one necessitating re-testing at 
a later date in higher dilutions. The reaction appears within a few days of the 
commencement of the fever, and appears to persist fairly constantly throughout 
its course, and for some time after convalescence is established. 

CULTIVATION OF THE MICROCOCCUS FROM THE BLOOD.— Now that the 
Malta Fever Commission have shown that the organism of this disease can readily 
be cultivated from a few cubic centimetres of the peripheral blood, vein puncture, 
as described on p. 26, should be done in doubtful cases wherever facihties for 
growing the micrococcus are at hand : for a positive result is absolute proof of the 
nature of the disease. The appearance of the organism is shown in plate 11, 
facing page 261. 



MODE OF INFECTION AND PROPHYLAXIS 

Until very recently nothing definite was known as to the mode of infection 
of Malta fever, and consequently prophylactic measures have been largely futile. 
Hughes brought forward much evidence to connect the disease with bad sanitation, 
but in Malta, and still more further east, such conditions are so nearly universal 
that it is very difficult to prove or disprove their causal connexion with any par- 
ticular dibease, and the work of ameliorating such insanitary states is always a 
slow one. No further advance was made regarding the infection of Malta fever 
until the appointment of the Commission of the Royal Society in 1904 to sys- 
tematically investigate the subject in Malta, but during the three short years 
that this work has been going on results of much practical importance have 
been obtained. They have been so well summarized by Colonel David Bruce, 
that a brief account of it will be of interest to workers in the tropics, where Malta 
fever also occurs. 

EPIDEMIOLOGY. — ^Malta fever is met with at all seasons of the year in the 
Mediterranean, but there is a very marked increase of the disease in the hot dry 
season lasting from May to October, reaching a maximum from July to September 
and declining soon after the rainy season commences in October, although the 



MALTA FEVER— MODE OF INFECTION 169 

fall is not as rapid as might have been expected if the connexion between the two 
were very intimate. A possible co-relationship to a warm temperature and to 
dust is indicated by this seasonal distribution. The disease is relatively more 
frequent among officers than among the men of the army and navy. One attack 
appears to protect against a second over a long period. According to Hughes all 
ages are Hable to the disease, but infants rarely suffer, and children under 6 and 
adults over 50 are relatively exempt. The disease is widespread in the villages 
of Malta as well as in the towns. 

THE OCCURRENCE OF THE MICROCOCCUS MELITENSIS OUTSIDE THE 
HUMAN BODY. — The mode of escape of the organism from the body is the first 
point to be determined in the extra-corporeal stage of its existence. The Commis- 
sion have carefully studied the question, and Kennedy found the micrococcus in 
the spleen, liver, kidneys, lymphatic glands, blood and bile, but not in the intestines. 
The organism could not be recovered from expired air, saliva, sputum, sweat or 
scrapings from the skin. Horrocks failed to recover it from the faeces, but it may 
possibly escape in small numbers by the bowel as it occurs in bile. Horrocks found 
the organism in small numbers in the urine between the fifteenth and the eighty- 
second day of the disease, and Kennedy obtained it in the same way in 54 per 
cent, of the cases he examined between the twenty-first and two hundred and 
forty-ninth days of the fever. From 3 to over 1,000 cocci were obtained per cubic 
centimetre of urine, while in two cases they were innumerable. The urine, there- 
fore, would appear to be the principal vehicle for the escape of the organism from 
the human body. 

THE BLOOD also contains the coccus in small numbers, it having been obtained 
from the peripheral circulation in from 54 to 82 per cent, of cases by different 
observers. It may thus reach the stomachs of mosquitoes and other blood-sucking 
insects, but Bruce thinks this an unlikely mode of infection on account of the small 
numbers found in the peripheral circulation, which rarely reach 100 per cubic 
centimetre. 

The micrococcus of Malta fever has never yet been isolated from nature outside 
the animal body, but this may possibly be due to the great difficulties of separating 
it from numerous more vigorous saprophytic bacteria. Many experiments have 
been carried out by the Commission to ascertain its resisting powers under experi- 
mental conditions outside the body. In water it may survive for from six to seventy- 
three days, and nearly as long in sea as in tank water ; here it does not multiply, but 
rather tends to die out. In naturally infected urines Kennedy found it could be 
recovered after from one to sixteen days. In non-sterile street dust inoculated 
with the micrococcus Horrocks recovered the organism up to twenty-eight days, but 
from manured garden soil only after five days. From street dust, sterilised or un- 
sterilised, watered with infected Malta fever urine he failed to isolate the organism. 
The micrococcus of Malta fever, then, appears to be fairly resistant, and can live 
in a moist or dry state for long periods outside the body. There is no evidence, 



170 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

however, that it has a saprophytic existence, thriving and multiplying, under natural 
conditions, and Bruce thinks that when the enormous dilution of the organism in 
dust and the steriHsing action of the sun are considered, infection through dust 
is very unlikely to be at all common. 

THE MODE OF INFECTION was also tested experimentally in the following 
ways. Monkeys appear to be able to contract the disease from each other if in 
close contact, unless precautions to prevent infection through urine or mosquitoes 
are taken, in which case the results were negative. Artificially contaminated dust 
may also convey the infection, but dust contaminated with infected urine failed]to 
infect, so that it is very doubtful if this is a common natural mode of infection. 
The organisms are too scantily present in the circulating blood to allow of 
infection through biting insects to be probable. 

A small quantity of a culture injected subcutaneously or applied to a scratch 
produces infection in monkeys, as does infected dust through mucous membranes 
of the respiratory passages or conjunctiva. The recent experiments have also 
shown that monkeys can be readily infected by food contaminated with the micro- 
coccus, or by naturally infected goats' milk. 

INFECTION THROUGH GOATS' MILK has proved to be the most hkely 
ordinary mode of infection, for while examining various animals in a routine manner 
it was found by the Commission that the blood of some apparently healthy goats 
agglutinated the specific organism of Malta fever. This led to further investiga- 
tions, which showed that 50 per cent, of some 1,000 goats examined gave positive 
serum reactions, while in 10 per cent, of them were actually excreting the Micro- 
coccus melitensis in their milk. Monkeys fed for even one day on such infected 
milk nearly invariably contracted the disease. That a similar mode of infection 
also occurs in man was demonstrated in 1905 by the infection with Malta fever 
of nearly all the officers and crew of a vessel which had shipped sixty-five goats 
at Malta for America, half of which were subsequently found to give the serum 
reaction, while the Micrococcus melitensis was isolated from several of them 
after their arrival in America. Again, during the last twenty years Malta fever 
has greatly declined at Gibraltar, until it completely disappeared in 1904, this 
change being coincident with the cessation of the importation of goats from 
Malta. 

In India W. C. H. Forster has found goats in the Punjab infected with Malta 
fever thus confirming the above results. 

Measures to abolish the use of goats' milk in messes and in the mUitary and 
naval hospitals were put into operation about the beginning of July, 1906, and 
by the end of that year the cases had dropped to broadly one-tenth of what would 
have been their normal number. Further, although previously one-third of the 
cases of Malta fever in the navy could be traced to residence in the Malta hospital, 
no case has occurred during residence there since goats' milk was forbidden to be 
used. Table XVIII shows the monthly ratio per thousand strength of Malta 
fever cases for the years 1899-1905 and for 1906 respectively. 



MALTA FEVER— PRACTICAL DISAPPEARANCE 



171 



TABLE XVIII.— MONTHLY PREVALENCE RATIO PER 1,000 STRENGTH OF MALTA 
FEVER, EXPRESSED IN TERMS OF AN ANNUAL RATIO. 




1899-1905 . . . 
Quarterly prevalence 
1906 .... 



1907. Total cases. 



24-6 


23-8 


22-4 




23-6 




30-9 


12-6 


22-7 



23-4 32-4 40-6 46-4 630 68-2 481 340 23-7 



321 589 35-3 

29-2 59-4 42-3 16-4 13-9 15-7 | 40 6-5 



4 1 



22-2 




Total for half-year : 8 cases among about 6,000 men. 



I 



I am indebted to Colonel D. Bruce, R.A.M.C., for the figures for the first half of 1907, 
which shows only 8 cases of Malta fever in the entire garrison, averaging about 6,000 persons. 
The disease has, therefore, practically disappeared within the last year. 

Thus, as a result of a systematic inquiry by a number of scientific workers 
a discovery of the greatest practical importance has been made, which years of 
clinical studies never even appear to have raised a suspicion of : an example 
of the value of scientific work should lead to the expenditure of far more public 
money on such inquiries than has hitherto been the case. 

MALTA FEVER REFERENCES 

1861. Marston, J. A. Report on Malta Fever (Malta). Army Med. Report, pub. 1863, Vol. 

ni, p. 486. 
1879. Veale, H. Remarks on Cases of Fever from Cyprus, Malta and Gibraltar, treated at 

Netley. Army Med. Report, Vol. XXI, p. 260. Published 1881. 
1887. Bruce, David. Note on the Discovery of a Micro-Organism in Malta Fever. Pract., 

Vol. XXXIX, p. 161. 
1889. Bruce, David. Observations on Malta Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 1,101. 
1897. Hughes, M. Louis. Mediterranean, Malta or Undulant Fever. Macmillan & Co., 

London. (With full bibliography up to 1897.) 

1897. Wright, A. E., and Smith, F. A Note on the Occurrence of Malta Fever in India. 

Brit. Med. Joiir., Vol. I, p. 911. 

1898. Birt, C, and Lamb, G. Mediterranean or Malta Fever, with special reference to agglu- 

tination. Lancet, Vol. II, p. 701. 

1899. Hughes, M. L. Undulant (Malta) Fever. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 210. 

1899. Hughes, M. L. The Geographical Distribution of Undulant (Malta) Fever. Brit. 

Med. Jour., Vol. II. p. 657. 

1900. Lamb, G. The Occurrence of Malta Fever in Bombay. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 337. 

1901. Greig, E. W. D. Malta Fever in the Swat Valley (Punjab). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 100. 

1902. Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India. Report for 1902. 

1902. Bassett-Smith, P. W. Further Notes on the Prevalence of Malta Fever. Naval 
Report for 1902, and. The Agglutinating Powers of the Blood in Cases of Mediterranean 
Fever, and other changes and reactions found in the course of the disease. Brit. 
Med. Joiu-., Vol. II, p. 861. 



172 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

1902. Bentley, C. A. Kala-azar as an Analogous Disease to Malta Fever. Brit. Med. Jour., 
Vol. n, p. 872, and Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 337. 

1902. Rogers, Leonard. Note on the Serum Reactions and the Temperature Curve in 

Chronic Malaria, including Kala-azar. 

1903. Craig. Malta Fever in the United States. Amer. Jour, of Med. Sci., p. 105. 

1904. Cornwall, J. Note on the Diagnosis of Malta Fever in India. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 45. 

1905. Lamb, G., and Pai, M. K. Mediterranean Fever in India : Isolation of the Micrococcus 

raelitensis. Sci. Mem. of India, No. 32. New series. 

1906. Forster, W. H. C. Malta Fever in India. Isolation of the Micrococcus melitensis 

from the milk of a domestic goat in the Punjab. Lan., Vol. I, p. 441. 
1906. Stanley, A. Malta Fever in Shanghai. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 135. 

1906. Bruce, D. Malta Fever. Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, Vol. VI, and March, 1907. 

(A good summary of the Royal Society's Commission's work.) 

1907. Winderly, C. N. C. Malta Fever in the Pvmjab. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 123. 

1907. Bassett-Smith, P. W. The Treatment of Mediterranean Fever with Vaccines, with 

illustrative cases. Jour. Hygiene, p. 115. 
1905-7. Reports of the Mediterranean Fever Commission of the Royal Society. Parts I to 

vn. 



i 



VI. THE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 

ITS EARLY DIAGNOSIS AND CURE 

No one who has had a large experience of the early stages of amoebic abscess of the 
liver in a tropical climate can fail to have been struck by the great frequency with 
which definite clinical symptoms of suppuration in this organ are preceded by 
weeks or even months of fever, during which there may be few if any symptoms 
pointing to the liver as the cause of the trouble ; this fever is commonly ascribed 
to and treated as " malaria." Moreover, even when marked symptoms of acute 
hepatitis are present it is frequently impossible to decide whether an abscess has 
already formed or not without resort to an exploratory operation, which only too 
often gives a negative result in cases where an abscess of the liver is found at a later 
date. 

In a paper published in 1905 I discussed the value of leucocytosis in 
acute hepatitis, and concluded that its presence in a marked degree was gen- 
erally an indication that suppuration had already taken place, but that in the slighter 
degrees it may be present in acute hepatitis without actual suppuration, and that 
this early stage of amoebic hepatitis may sometimes be cured, and suppuration 
prevented, by the administration of large doses of ipecacuanha. Since then I 
have repeatedly confirmed this observation. I can now go a step in advance 
of that position. 

During the last two years in the course of this investigation of fevers in 
Calcutta I have met with a most interesting group of cases, which appear to me 
to throw much light on the early pre-suppurative stages of amoebic hepatitis, 
and indicate that this disease may frequently be recognized by the blood changes 
when in a stage which admits of rapid cure ; thus the patient is prevented from 
drifting on into the much more serious suppurative stage, now so commonly their 
fate. Further, these cases constitute a distinct class of fever, usually of a chronic in- 
termittent type, sometimes with no very definite symptoms of hepatitis, and rarely 
with any dysentery. They may be recognized, or at least strongly suspected, by 
the presence of a moderate degree of leucocytosis, generally of the type which I 
have described as common in amoebic abscess of the liver, namely one in which 
the proportion of polynuclears is either normal or only sUghtly in excess. Further 
— and this is the most important practical point — this kind of fever yields rapidly 
to large doses of ipecacuanha in the absence of symptoms of dysentery, or even of 
hepatitis, and the formation of tropical abscess of the liver is thus prevented. If 
this proposition can be substantiated a great advance will be made in the pre- 



174 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



vention of one of the most dangerous diseases of certain tropical countries ; it will 
therefore be well to give notes and charts of some of the data on which the 
above statements are based. 

For convenience of reference all the cases of non-suppurative hepatitis met with 
in the Calcutta European Hospital fever series during the year subsequent to those 
dealt with in my 1905 paper on blood counts in amoebic hepatitis, have been 
embodied in Table XIX and classed in accordance with, whether they 
showed clinical symptoms of dysentery and hepatitis, hepatitis alone, or no definite 
signs of either at the time the blood examination was made. The patients 
were under the care of Drs. B. Chatterton, J. C. H. Leicester and J. G. Murray, 
all of the Indian Medical Service, to whom I am greatly indebted for permission 
to examine the blood and make use of the hospital notes. 



I. CASES OF ACUTE HEPATITIS COMPLICATED WITH DYSENTERY 

Beginning ^\ith the simplest and most straightforward cases, we first have 
Nos. 1 to 3, in which an acute hepatitis followed symptoms of dysentery, leucocytosis 
being present in each, while as the Hver was also enlarged and very tender, livei 
abscess was suspected, and in No. 3 exploratory puncture of the hver in six places 
was done with a negative result. In all three cases the ipecacuanha treatment 
was followed by cessation of the fever and other acute symptoms within from two 
to four days, although they had been present for fifteen, thirty-four and forty-one 
days respectively before this drug was given in large doses. The following are 
the principal points of interest in these cases. 

CASE I. — A male, aged 38, who had been in hospital two and a haK months 
previously for a slight attack of hepatitis, which yielded to ammonium chloride 
treatment in tlu-ee days. He had suffered from dysentery on and off for seven 
months before this first attack of hepatitis, and on readmission was passing mucus 
and blood, but showed no sign of hepatitis. The dysentery improved under 
bismuth, but the irregular intermittent fever continued in spite of quinine, and 
one month after he came into hospital I found slight increase of the leucocytes 
not amounting to an actual leucocytosis. Six days later, his liver having become 

Chart 27 (Case 1). 




EtJTopean, male, 



38. Dysentery followed by hepatitis. Fever forty-one days before and for 
two days after ipecacuanha treatment. 



THE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 175 




•Benqd 
-oineoa 



-ououi o3j«t; 



•so^Xo 
-oqduiXi 



'sj'eaiona 



p; cu 



qI«I 



>5-^ " I I 




< 



&4 






© 


-* 


ec 


•* 


(M 


CO 


ec 


CO 
1— 1 


1— 1 


00 


CO 


05 



Iff 8 



fill 



P 



O 



eS 



05 CO ® 

(M (N ^ 

pH p-< -^ 

I I I 



05 — 

P 

^ I 

P 
O 
H 
H — 



O © 
© © 



© © 

© © 

© © 

©' ©" 

l-H CO 

CO o 



00 >o ■* 
CO ^ cc 



§§s sss 



w 

o 



o 









^ 




(M 


1—1 


1—1 


01 


>— 1 


IC 


Lt 


•* 


CO 


■* 


Hi 

l-H 


I> 


l-H 


CO 


CO 
1—1 


00 


00 


© 

00 


CO 


OS 



o «e 
^ .Ea 

o ST 



^ ^ rt ^ {U 



^H 


1 - 


t~ 


1" 


1— < 
1— < 


1^ 


00 


I^ 



© e<5 

CO CO 



^J.^ ^ ^ 



CO o 

I I 



u3 eo 

(M OS 

I I 



© © 
o o 
© t- 



© © 
© © 

© © 

©' © 
(N © 

00 CO 



^ © © 
>J© © 
o © o 



© © 

© © 

© © 

© ©' 

00 ^ 

CO OS 



^ © © 



■^ o 



© © 
© © 
© © 



^-H'«j<oioco hJ |J2<^32 






^ c8 o 

to £ H 
fl^ O 3 

£^5 



ce o 



> s 



SI^SSS 



r~ oo OS © ^ 



(N 




CO 


CO 










rj< 


• 


-* 


eo" 


1 


»o 


(N 


(M 


1 


1— 1 




I-H 


CO 


CO 


»o 


iO 




W5 


CO 


■^ 


^ 








c6 








£ 


^ 


. 


^ 










o 








^ 










-*t 






" 




rH 


o 








'V 






|3 


s 


'5 




»^ 


c8 






[J 


&< 












»• 


/rj 


-*:> 


o 




b S 1 




M 


6 


© 


00 


■* 


(M 


^ 


(M 


(M 


CO 


Sl^^^ 


(N 


CO 

1— 1 


l-H 


l-H 



176 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



tender, a second examination showed 15,250 white corpuscles per cubic millimetre, 
a leucocytosis having now developed. Although aU active symptoms of dysentery 
had long ceased, I suspected a latent form of the disease as the cause of the hepatitis, 
and advised the ipecacuanha treatment, which was followed by a permanent 
cessation of the fever within two days as seen from Chart 27, although the case was 
just one of those which ordinarily drift on into liver abscess. 

CASE 2. — This man was also admitted for dysentery, together with signs 
of acute hepatitis and a leucocytosis, but the remittent temperature fell to normal 
in four days under ipecacuanha, although there was a slight relapse of the dysenteric 
symptoms four days later, but at the end of sixteen days the fever finally left him. 
A Widal test with Shiga's bacillus gave a negative result in a dilution of 1 in 20, 
so the dysentery was probably amoebic in nature. This case was a straightforward 
one of dysentery followed by hepatitis yielding to the weU-known ipecacuanha treat- 
ment as advised, when dysentery is present, by Sir Patrick Manson and other 
authorities. 

CASE 3. — A male, aged 33, whose iUness began three weeks before admission 
with dysentery, lasting for two weeks. He was passing loose greenish stools, 
his liver was enlarged and tender, and leucocytosis was present. X rays showed 
loss of movement of the diaphragm on the right side, and, Hver abscess being 
suspected, the organ was punctured in six places under chloroform with a negative 
result. He had been given ipecacuanha in 2 grain doses, with only some lessening 
of the pyrexia resulting, but two weeks after admission he was given 20 grain doses 
twice a day, and on the third day his temperature finally feU to normal, and he 
rapidly recovered (Chart 28.) 

Chabt 28 (Case 3). 




Europeaji, male, aged 33. Hepatitis following dysentery. Aspirated for liver abscess with negative 
result. Fever and hepatitis cesaed in three days under ipec£K;uanha treatment. 



THE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 177 

REMARKS ON GROUP I.— These three cases illustrate the well-known treat- 
ment of cases of dysentery complicated by acute hepatitis, by large doses of ipecacu- 
anha, although the rapidity with which the hepatitis with a definite leucocytosis 
yielded to the drug in spite of the dysenteric symptoms being in abeyance in two 
of them is noteworthy, for it is just such cases which so commonly drift on into the 
suppurative stage of the disease if this treatment is neglected, as it too often is in 
the tropics at the present day. 

II. CASES OF HEPATITIS WITHOUT DYSENTERY NOT TREATED WITH 

IPECACUANHA 

Next I come to cases of acute hepatitis without any recent dysentery, 8 
in number, which I have divided up into those treated with large doses of 
ipecacuanha and those not so treated. I will first deal with the 3 cases not treated 
with this drug (Nos. 4 to 6). 

CASE 4. — A seaman, aged 38, admitted for acute hepatitis with a leucocytosis, 
but no dysentery. X rays showed reduced movement of the diaphragm on the 
right side, and eight days after admission the liver was aspirated in two places, only 
blood being obtained ; the abdomen was then opened, the organ palpated, and punc- 
tured in three more places, again with a negative result. Irregular intermittent fever 
continued for twelve days after the operation, and a few days after the pyrexia 
ceased the leucocytosis was also found to have disappeared. He continued to have 
occasional slight rises of temperature for another month, but eventually left hospital 
apparently weU after sixty-two days under treatment ; as he went to England I 
was unable to follow up his case further, so that I cannot say if he eventually 
developed a liver abscess or not. He was not treated with large doses of ipecacu- 
anha while in hospital, and his recovery was a very protracted one. 

CASE 5. — A male, aged 45, admitted for low intermittent fever and hepatitis, 
his blood showing a very marked leucocytosis, 28,500 per cubic millimetre, 
his liver was also punctured in several places without any pus being found. 
The pyrexia ceased after thirty-nine days, and he left hospital at his own request 
much improved after fifty-seven days' stay. He was readmitted for another much 
slighter attack of hepatitis ten months later. 

CASE 6. — Admitted for mild hepatitis with low intermittent fever up to about 
100° only, which lasted for thirty-four days under quinine treatment without any 
very acute symptoms appearing. Here there was no leucocytosis, the case being 
probably alcoholic in origin, but it is included so as to furnish a consecutive 
series of unselected cases. 

REMARKS ON GROUP II. — The first two of this group are typical of the 
class of acute hepatitis without dysentery, in which leucocytosis pointing to Uver 
abscess is present, and exploratory operation becomes necessary to decide if a liver 

12 



178 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



abscess has formed or not. A negative result being not uncommonly followed by a 
slow improvement and ultimate recovery, although they are apt to relapse and 
an abscess is frequently found at a later date. They will serve for comparison with 
the next group in which the ipecacuanha treatment was carried out. 



III. CASES OF HEPATITIS WITHOUT DYSENTERY TREATED WITH 

IPECACUANHA 

Cases 7 to 11 all presented signs of acute hepatitis without any recent dysentery, 
4 out of the 5 also showing marked leucocytosis. They were all treated with 
ipecacuanha. 

CASE 7. — Had been in hospital for a short attack of hepatitis four months 
before. No history of dysentery, but had suffered occasionally from a watery 
diarrhoea alternating with constipation — a not infrequent occurrence in amoebic 
hepatitis. He suffered from fever for fifteen days of a low remittent and inter- 
mittent form, at the end of which he was put on the ipecacuanha treatment, and 
two days later his temperature finally feU to normal, and he made a good recovery, 
returning to work after thirty-two days in hospital. However, he returned five 
months later with a liver abscess, which was cured by aspiration and injection of 
quinine into the cavity, after which he went to work again and remained quite 
free from fever for eight weeks, when he returned with a second abscess 
in a different part of the liver to the one which had been injected with the 
quinine. A similar treatment was tried on the fresh abscess, but this time it failed, 
and eventually it had to be opened and drained. Since this he has had no return 
of his trouble (Chart 29). 















Chaet i 


29 


Case 


7). 
















Wv.^A,k 


.< 


> 


, i< 


a 


i 


t-^ 


f?^ 


, ' 


r 


h^ 


tf 


,/* 


T/f ,1 


1-41° 

i-40° 

\ 1 
759" 1 

: i 

i-58°| 

! 1 


106°- 
K)5' - 

1 108' ■ 






■ t - 


1:4::. 


+ - 


— ^.. 
— 1— 


::tz: 


— r~ 


-fl 


^ 


- 1- 


^'•■-" 




'^^X^ 


■ J-. 


~i- 


■•*-"- 


:~: 


• f 


zX- 


T= 


rtr 


~t J 






3r. 


-t-' 
-* 


i; 


z" 


rlv 


~~1'» 


m- 


f 


■~t-" 


i 


3". 


^■■ 


^ 




~l' 


■■}- 


...|... 


"T-- 


-•F- 


— - 




• , 


■j;lr-"- 


"ii 




"J 


'4~ 


••"•- 











■-» - 


-r 




■n- 






r 


' 


■1' 




■^ 


T: 


• 4-1 

-t-.: 
-t- 


^ 


.^^^ 


•-■i— • 




-_ 4 — 






.1 


^: 


- 




1-102° ■ 

1 101° 

^ 100°. 

99°- 

98°- 

97° • 


^ 


-r 1 


i 


— - 

i"- 


4 




"t" 




— 1 

4r 




:^B 


-w 




- + ■ 


■3:: 




1 — 


Jjili ij 




-•t 


j- 




LtjL 


J 


IPET 


Ig-, , 


T 


-t= 


...*... 


•4;;: 


:::s:::. 


-■ 


"J;; 


1- 


:_rp: 


r-^i 








K: 


- 1- 

•t 


:_ 


i;.t::: 


EatiJl;: 


: 




fr 


■XT 


\^ 




3» 


j|::f 


z:i::: 




jl^. ' 




/IP 






' 


-I— 


/ 1 1 


y 








. 1:.: 








;::tv" 


....( — 


V 


^P 


^ 


Is 


^H 


i 


\l 




^ 


u 


•- 

















1 


r 


M 


-. ; .. 


1 


1 


"."h.; 


.. 


■■■f-' 




;r;^.;:; 




~^Z 




'■'ri:: 




:'•■£ 


, 


;;-p 










J_ 


■■•4:;: 


■ z 


.— 1 


,- 


:Er 






.." -ll.l 


■■.t- 


t 

.1— 


■ 


-± 




■; ;■. 




-J 



European, male, aged 40. Hepatitis without dysentery for fifteen days. 
Symptoms disappeared in one day under ipecacuanha treatment. 



THE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 



179 



In connexion with this method of treating early cases of liver abscess by aspira- 
tion and injection of soluble bihydrochloride of quinine into the cavity to kill the 
amoeba when it is found to be free from bacteria, I regret to have to report that in 
3 further cases, treated by Captain J. G. Murray, I. M.S., at the General Hospital, 
Calcutta, it failed, and the open operation had to be resorted to. I am informed that 
in Bombay a similar experience was obtained in 2 cases, so that the treatment 
has not fulfilled my anticipation of success in most of the cases of tropical abscess. 
On the other hand, I have been informed of several cases in which it has proved 
successful in other hands than my own, so that in view of the rapid and compara- 
tively painless cures it sometimes effects, and its harmlessness as far as our Calcutta 
experience guides us iij those cases which have eventually to be cut open, I still 
think it is worthy of trial in early, deep-seated, amoebic abscesses of the liver. 

CASE 8. — ^A male, aged 38, admitted for acute hepatitis without any history 
of dysentery, and no present bowel trouble. His temperature showed the rapid 
oscillations produced by the frequent profuse perspirations so common in acute 
liver inflammation, a marked leucocytosis was present, and he had occasional 
rigors. Nevertheless, the pyrexia and all the acute symptoms yielded in four days 
to 20 grain doses of ipecacuanha morning and evening (Chart 30). 

Chart 30 (Case 8). 



\ 



Datr, 




















J 


1 










Ba^yt^Dis 


,i 


L 


1 


) 


1 


^ 


\ fi 


f 




i\f 


f\? 


/ 


^ 


i 


Q 


Ttntf 
106°- 
105° 


Mf 

J 


M C 


M E 


ME 


M t 


U € 


M.E M E 

IJ- 


M,£ 


M E 

1- 


ME 


M I 


M e 


ME 


M E 


ME 


M I 

-A . 


M C 

■£':. 


J 105° ■ 
ll02-- 

1 ^°^° 
•^ lOO". 

99° 

98* ■ 

97° ■ 


-^ 


i 


^ 


i 


■ 


1 


w, 


k 


k 


tL 


7 


k ' 


T 




-.::■ 


-v. 


:-E 


: 


u 




•fI 


■' ; 


y\i 


/irii 


\t ..:. 


1 


A 


:.;.;■ 


.- i 




■-.t.- 


-\;M 


:;"■;:: 


1 V 


r 


f 


u 


t 


.■:.l.. 






■■.?;.•„ 


, 


..4.:. 


*. 


r^.\i. 


...:.; 








f 


; 


Xiv.. 




: :;.. . 




-^ 


~h 


■ . 




.1- 




— 1 


■•-- 




VI' 






i- 


V 


i 


I 


Vi- 



European, male, aged 38. Acute hepatitis without dysentery for fourteen days. Leucocjd^sis present. 
Hepatitis and fever ceased in four days under ipecacuanha treatment. 

CASE 9. — A male, aged 31, admitted with a subacute hepatitis, with low inter- 
mittent fever, watery diarrhoea, and a slight degree of leucoc3rtosis, all the symptoms 
disappearing after five days of the beginning of the ipecacuanha treatment. 

CASE 10. — A male, aged 35, admitted for acute hepatitis with constipation 
and low intermittent fever, which improved for a time under quinine, only to return 
shortly after. A month after his admission I was asked to examine the blood, and 



180 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



found 17,750 leucocytes per cubic millimetre ; the liver was punctured, but with 
a negative result. He was then put on 5 grains of ipecacuanha three times a day, 
and four days later was injected with antistreptococcus serum, the temperature 
finally faUing the next day, and he made a good recovery. In this case it is difficult 
to say whether the happy result was due to the ipecacuanha or to the serum, but I 
am inclined to think it was the former, because two and a half months later he 
returned with an amoebic abscess of the liver, which was opened and drained with 
an ultimately fatal result ; thus his earlier attack was pretty certainly also 
amoebic in origin, and so likely to have yielded for a time to the small doses of 
ipecacuanha given (Chart 31). 



Chart 31 (Cas 




European, male, aged 31. Acute hepatitis without dysentery for thirty -seven days. Leucocytosia 
present. Liver aspirated with negative result. Fever and hepatitis ceased five daj^ after 
ipecacuanha treatment and one day after antistreptococcus serum. 

CASE II. — ^Male, aged 38, who had suffered from dysentery twelve years 

before. Bowels now normal, but symptoms of acute hepatitis without leucocytosis 

^ „„,^ ,,, and low remittent fever, which 

Chart 32 (Case 11). j v j i. xi. • i 

declmed when the ipecacuanha 
treatment was commenced, and 
finally ceased after six days, the 
case being a somewhat mild one 
(Chart 32). 

REMARKS ON GROUP III. 

— These cases of hepatitis with- 
out dysentery are precisely similar 
to those of Group II, but the 
pyrexia and other symptoms 
rapidly ceased under the ipecac- 
uanha treatment within from one 
to six days, although they had 
previously been present for from 
thirteen to thirty-seven days, and 

European, male aged 38 Dysentery twelve years j^ ^^^ ^q aspiration had been 
ago only. Acute hepatitis for thirteen days, ceasmg ^ . . 

in six days under ipecacuanha treatment. done on acCOUnt of a Suspicion of 




THE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 181 

liver abscess being present. In short, the effect of this treatment was precisely 
the same as in the first three cases- in which symptoms of dysentery as well as 
hepatitis had been evident. 

IV. CASES WITHOUT DYSENTERY OR LIVER SYMPTOMS TREATED WITH 

IPECACUANHA 

CASES 12 to 15 all showed leucocytosis without symptoms of either dysentery 
or acute hepatitis being present, fever, for which no definite cause could be found, 
being the condition for which they were admitted. As there was no obvious cause 
for the leucocytosis I suspected that latent amoebic dysentery, as well as the insidious 
form of hepatitis, which sometimes precedes actual abscess formation, might be 
present. I therefore suggested a trial of the ipecacuanha treatment, which had 
proved so efficient in the more acute forms of amoebic hepatitis, although there 
was neither pain nor tenderness of this organ present when they were first admitted, 
in spite of shght enlargement of the liver in 3 of the 4 patients. The results 
were most satisfactory. 

CASE 12. — A seaman, aged 40, with alcoholic history, whose pyrexia ceased 
after six days without ipecacuanha, but who was subsequently treated with it 
on account of the presence of leucocytosis in order to try and prevent a recurrence 
of the liver trouble, as the fall of temperature might have been temporary 
improvement only. This case must be acknowledged to be a doubtful one. 

CASE 13. — Male, aged 28, admitted for fever of three weeks' duration, which 
persisted under quinine treatment, although no cause could be found for it. 
Bowels normal, both sides of the diaphragm moving well, as seen by the X rays. 
Liver slightly enlarged, but not tender, although becoming larger. Leucocytosis 
was found by me both one week and three weeks after admission ; the liver was 
therefore explored for abscess with a negative result. Three days later, or fifty- 
three days after the fever commenced, the ipecacuanha treatment was commenced, 
and on the fourth day the temperature was normal, but slight low fever up to 100° F. 
recurredfor several days more, afterwhich convalescence set in, as shown in Chart 33. 



Chart 33 (Case 13). 




European, male, aged 28. Fever without any symptoms of dysentery or hepatitis for fifty-three dajTS.. 
Leucocytosis found and liver aspirated with negative result. Fever ceased in a few days under 
ipecacuanha treatment. 



182 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



This was a most remarkable case, as the nature and cause of the fever was 
quite a puzzle imtil the presence of leucocytosis lead to a suspicion that latent 
amoebic dysentery and hepatitis might be at the bottom of it, while the rapid 
success of the ipecacuanha treatment in such a persistent fever appears to me 
to support the correctness of this view. 

CASE 14. — Male, aged 24, admitted for irregular intermittent fever, not yielding 
to quinine, and with no obvious cause. As over 20,750 leucocytes were found the 
ipecacuanha treatment was again adopted with the happiest results, the fever 
finally ceasing two days later, and convalescence being quickly established, as in 
the preceding case (Chart 34). 



Chart 34 (Case 14). CASE 1 5. — Male, aged 

32, admitted for fever with 
no ascertainable cause and 
resistent to quinine. Bowels 
constipated ;diaphragm 
moving well. A well- 
marked leucocytosis was 
found ; 40 grains of ipecac- 
uanha were given on two 
consecutive days followed 
by 2 grains twice a day, but 
with apparently very little 
effect on the fever. 

Quinine was then tried 
hypodermically without re- 
sult, and on the sixteenth 
day after admission 30 
grains of ipecacuanha were 
again administered, and re- 
peated in doses diminished by 5 grains each day, which treatment was followed by a 
final cessation of the pyrexia in two days (Chart 35). In this case the fever had lasted 
for forty-five days before the first trial of ipecacuanha, so that it is, perhaps, not 
surprising that two large doses failed to stop it, and it had to be repeated again 
a few days later. The ultimate result was as satisfactory as in the previous cases, 
so that I do not think the repeated apparently good results of this treatment can 
be simply a coincidence. 




I 



European, male, aged 24. Fever without dysentery or hepatitis. 
Leucocytosis found. Fever ceased in two days under ipecacuanha 
treatment. 



REMARKS ON GROUP IV.— The remarkable feature of these last four cases 
is that there were no bowel or liver symptoms to make one suspect the presence of 
amoebic hepatitis, until an otherwise unexplainable leucocytosis was found on 
examining the blood. Yet on administering large doses of ipecacuanha in 3 
of the cases, after the fever had resisted quinine and other treatment for thirty-five^ 



THE PRE-feuPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 183 



Chart 35 (Case 15). 




European, male, aged 32. Fever without dysentery or hepatitis. Leucocj'tosis found, and fever 
^ ceased under ipecacuanha treatment. 

forty-five, and fifty-three days respectively, the pjTexia and other symptoms sub- 
sided in much the same way as in the previous groups which showed definite 
symptoms of hepatitis with or without dysentery. Moreover, judging from a 
prolonged experience of similar cases before this treatment was so commonly 
used in the Calcutta European Hospital, this class of patients very frequently drift 
on into liver abscess formation unless their true nature is discovered and the 
ipecacuanha method vigorously used, while I know of nothing but the presence of 
leucocytosis which will allow of their nature being suspected in this early stage when 
they are so readily amenable to medical treatment. I may add that several very 
similar cases seen in consultation have furnished equally satisfactory results under 
ipecacuanha to those dealt with above. 



THE TYPE OF THE LEUCOCYTOSIS IN AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 

In the paper already referred to I pointed out that the leucocytosis in amoebic 
abscess is somewhat peculiar in that the proportion of the polynuclears is usually 
comparatively slightly, if at all, increased, as it is in ordinary suppurative conditions. 
A reference to the table will show that a similar type is present as a general rule 
in the pre-suppurative stages of amoebic hepatitis, and this is a point in favour of 
the view that these cases are also secondary to an amoebic dysentery, usually 
of a latent nature. Thus, out of thirteen cases in which the differential leucocyte 
count was done, in none were as many as 90 per cent, of polynuclears present, whUe 
in only three were over 80 per cent, found. I have several times found this type 
a point of diagnostic value in favour of this affection rather than that of some 
other suppurative or acute inflammatory condition. 



184 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE IMPORTANCE OF ALWAYS TRYING THE IPECACUANHA TREATMENT BEFORE 

OPERATING 

Another striking point in this series is the fact that in no less than one-third of 
them an unsuccessful exploratory operation was undertaken before the disease 
was rapidly cured by the ipecacuanha treatment, this indeed was done in several 
of them at my own suggestion, before I had fuUy realized how often a marked leuco- 
cytosis is present in the readily curable early pre-suppurative stage of amoebic 
hepatitis. In view of the results of that treatment now brought forward I am 
strongly of the opinion that all cases of this disease should be treated with large 
and repeated doses of ipecacuanha, whenever there is any doubt remaining as to 
whether suppuration has already taken place or not, before any exploration of 
the Uver is carried out, for this rule will certainly prevent some unnecessary surgical 
measures. Moreover, repeated puncturing of the liver with large aspirating cannulas 
is by no means without danger, as shown by the number of recorded, and stiU more 
of unrecorded, cases of fatal haemorrhage following them, while it is especially in 
these cases of very acute congestion of the organ without actual suppuration that 
such deplorable deaths have occurred. 

THE PATHOLOGY OF THE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 

The explanation of the series of cases just described remains to be considered, 
and I can best make it clear by beginning with the most straightforward cases and 
proceeding to the less definite ones, much in the same manner as that by which 
my present views have gradually become evolved as fresh facts accumulated. 

The very favourable position for the study of liver abscess in the tropics which 
I have long enjoyed, enables me to record that in 1902 I had found living amoebae 
in 35 consecutive cases of liver abscess in which scrapings of the wall were 
examined within less than twelve days of the cavity being opened, while the great 
majority of them were otherwise sterile when first incised. Further, I showed that, 
when both the clinical history and post mortem records of cases were available, 
dysentery had been noted in 90 per cent, of the cases, always, in my experience, of 
the amoebic type. In 18 per cent, of the cases the clinical history of dysentery 
was negative, but nevertheless dysenteric ulcers were found in the large bowel after 
death, the disease having been present in a latent form ; a sequence of events 
which has since then repeatedly come within my knowledge. I therefore hold 
that the amoeba dysenterica is constantly present in early amoebic abscess of the 
liver, although it may very occasionally die out in chronic cases, and that the liver 
affection is secondary to amoebic dysentery, although this may frequently be present 
in a latent form and give rise to no typical chnical symptoms, owing to the ulcers 
being limited to the caecum and ascending colon. 

Now, if the above statements are well founded, it foUows that in the pre- 
suppurative stages of amoebic hepatitis, in the absence of any clinical history 
or actual symptoms of dysentery, there must be a latent form of that disease 
present giving rise to irritation of the liver on account of these protozoal organisms 
reaching the organ mainly by the portal circulation, and that if this source of irrita- 



I 



THE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 185 

tion can be removed the hepatitis should subside. Now it is in just those tropical 
climates where liver abscess and amoebic dysentery occur that ipecacuanha is 
looked on as a specific in many cases of dysentery, while I have been informed by 
several medical men with experience of dysentery in countries where amoebic 
abscess of the hver is not seen, that this drug is useless in the dysenteries of bacterial 
origin which they there had to deal with. Personally I look on ipecacuanha as 
invaluable in the treatment of amoebic dysentery, in fact as a specific against that 
disease, and in Lower Bengal, where amoebic hver abscess is so common, I regard 
this drug as second only in importance to quinine itself. If this is so, it is easy 
to understand how large doses of ipecacuanha (not less than 20 to 40 grains once 
or twice a day, some twenty minutes after a dose of tincture of opium) may rapidly 
abort an early pre-suppurative amoebic hepatitis by curing the latent amoebic 
dysentery that produces it, although I find no recommendation of the drug in some 
of the standard works on tropical medicine in acute hepatitis, except when symptoms 
of dysentery are actually present. The cases narrated are, I venture to think, 
sufficiently striking to warrant the general extension of the ipecacuanha treatment 
as a routine method in cases of hepatitis in countries where amoebic abscess of the 
hver occurs, in the absence of actual history or symptoms of dysentery, and that this 
treatment should always be given a trial before operative measures are undertaken 
in all cases in which any doubt remains as to whether actual suppuration has yet 
occurred. 

Lastly, we also know that amoebic abscess of the liver may arise sometimes 
in a most insidious manner, there being no very definite indication of hepatitis for 
a long time in spite of persistent fever. In such cases, we may also have a latent 
amoebic dysentery as the exciting cause of the chronic fever, so that it is but one 
step further to treat these also with large doses of ipecacuanha, as soon as the nature 
of the case can be determined, for I have shown that they may often at least, be 
suspected from the presence of the type of leucocytosis already mentioned. The 
rapid cessation of the previously persistent intermittent fever, without symptoms 
of hepatitis, under such treatment in some of the cases narrated, is the best evidence 
of the correctness of this argument. I am sanguine enough to hope that when these 
methods of early diagnosis and prompt ipecacuanha treatment of the pre- 
suppurative stages of amoebic hepatitis become generally known and practised, much 
will be done to lessen the occurrence of tropical abscess of the liver, with its very 
high mortahty and prolonged suffering, especially in the case of Europeans, who 
come early under observation for the fever which so constantly precedes, often 
for several weeks, actual breaking down of the hver substance. 

REFERENCES TO AMOEBIC HEPATITIS 

1900. Rogers, Leonard. Tropical or amoebic abscess of the liver and its relationship to 

amoebic dysentery. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, Sept. 20. 
1903. Rogers, Leonard. Further work on amoobic dysentery in India. Brit. Med. Jour., 

June 6. 
1905. Rogers, Leonard. Blood counts in acute amoebic hepatitis and amoebic abscess of the 

liver. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, p. 1291. 



VII. EPIDEMIC DROPSY 

This disease was first described as occurring in Calcutta in the latter part of the 
years 1877, 1878 and 1879, breaking out each year after the rainy season was over 
at the end of October or in November, and disappearing again in the following 
hot weather, which commences in April. A slight outbreak was also reported 
from Dacca in Eastern Bengal, and a more extensive one in Shillong, the Hill station 
of Assam at an elevation of 5,000 feet, while a large number of cases also occurred 
among the coolies in Mauritius ; all these places having been apparently infected 
from Calcutta. A full description of the outbreak in India by Kenneth McLeod, 
I.M.S.jWas published in the Proceedings of the Epidemiological Society and in the 
Indian Medical Gazette in 1893. 

The most essential symptom was dropsy, usually preceded by fever, the oedema 
first appearing in the feet and legs, but ascending to the hips or waist and affecting 
the upper extremities, and occasionally also the face. It persists for a long period, 
and may affect the pleura and pericardium, but rarely the peritoneum. Remittent 
pyrexia, commonly from 100° to 101° E., but sometimes reaching 104°, without 
rigors or sweating, usually appears before the other symptoms. Diarrhoea and 
vomiting were first noticed in the Mauritius cases, but were also observed in about 
half the Calcutta ones, the stools being frequent and scanty. Burning of the skin or 
aching of the deep parts was noted, but there was no loss of sensation or paralysis. 
An eruption was noted in many of the Mauritius cases as a diffuse redness of the face, 
or as measly or dark red cresentic patches, with sometimes also petechiae in severe 
cases, affecting the trunk and Umbs. Dyspnoea, palpitation, congestion of the lungs, 
rapid pulse and lividity, may ensue in bad cases. 

There may be some dilatation of the heart, and haemic murmurs are also 
frequent. The liver may become enlarged secondary to the heart symptoms. 
The spleen was not enlarged except when malarial complications were present. 
The lymphatic glands were normal. There was no albumen in the urine or other 
sign of kidney disease. Anaemia is an essential symptom of the disease, the red 
corpuscles being decreased and the white increased, according to Lovell of Mauritius 
but T. R. Lewis found nothing special in the blood in Calcutta. Lovell says the dur- 
ation of the disease may extend to from 2 to 3 months, the average duration being 
6 weeks. It may be suddenly fatal about the fifth or sixth day, the mortality 
in Calcutta in the 1877 to 1880 outbreak being given as from 8 to 40 per cent. ; 
but in Mauritius, where all the cases among the plantation coolies were under 
observation, it is stated to be but 2 to 3 per cent. Possibly in Calcutta, only the 

186 



• EPIDEMIC DROPSY— CALCUTTA OUTBREAK 187 

more serious cases were seen, as the death rate in a recent outbreak there, described 
below, was very low. 

OUTBREAK OF EPIDEMIC DROPSY IN CALCUTTA IN 1901 

In the hot weather of 1901, I had an opportunity of investigating a small 
outbreak of this disease in Calcutta, which occurred during the hot season, and 
extended into the early part of the rainy season in July. In the same year eighteen 
cases were heard of in the native quarter of Madras, and a few more were seen 
there during 1902. 

INCIDENCE. — The cases in Calcutta were confined to the native quarter of 
the city, although they attacked three households of well-to-do Hindus, and also 
the Bethune College for Indian girls. Shortly before one family was attacked 
some excavation had been going on just outside their house, which may or may not 
have had anything to do with the outbreak. In the 3 houses I had an oppor- 
tunity of studying the disease in, 38 persons were Uving, out of whom no less 
than 31 were attacked, including a number of children. Of the 7 who 
escaped 3 were infants, and a fourth was a child of 3, these being the only 
very young children in the affected houses ; thus bearing out McLeod's state- 
ment that very young children have a relative immunity to the disease. Children 
of 6 and over suffered frequently, although 1 child of 8 escaped, together 
with 2 adult men. The adult females were all attacked, being more constantly 
in the house than the men, and the most severe cases were observed in the 
women. In 2 of the 3 families the servants were the first to be attacked, and 
may have introduced the infection. There was also a tendency for the cases to 
occur in groups of two or three, with intervals of about a week between their occur- 
rence, so that seven days may possibly be about the incubation period of the disease. 
The infection appeared to be largely a house one, for one family of 1 7 members 
showed no less than 14 attacks, yet a closely related one in a contiguous house, 
with which they had free communication, remained unaffected. 

The most essential and frequent symptoms were dropsy, fever, diarrhoea, 
rash and anaemia ; these presented the following features. 

DROPSY. — The most constant and characteristic symptom was oedema of 
the extremities, most marked in the feet and legs, but often extending up to the 
thighs, and occasionally over the abdominal wall affecting the hands and arms in 
addition. It was rarely seen in the face, only having been noted in the eyeUds in 
one of my cases. It may be a very early symptom, having been present in the 
feet only, in 2 out of 3 cases seen on the first day of the disease, it extends more 
widely as it progresses. I did not myself see any cases with fluid in the serous 
cavities, although in one the subcutaneous tissues of the trunk were involved, the out- 
break having been a mild one. In no case had oedema been absent throughout. 

FEVER. — ^A history of fever or actual pyrexia was noted in a considerable 



188 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

majority of the patients, but in 3 boys between 12 and 10 no fever 
had been noticed and in another boy of 12 the temperature was normal 
at noon on the first day of the disease, although a faint rash had begun to appear. 
In several other cases I found the temperature to be between 99° and 100° F., 
so that the pyrexia may often be so slight as to be readily overlooked, but I believe 
it is very rarely, if ever, completely absent throughout the disease. The fever 
is usually of a low remittent or intermittent type, but may occasionally run up 
as high as 104° F. In the most severe case I saw it had lasted for a month, having 
varied from 102° to 104° at first, but later from 99° to 101°, occasionally falling 
to normal in the morning. The fever begins without any rigor, 

DIARRHOEA. — Another very frequent and early symptom is diarrhoea, 
although it may be absent, even in severe cases. It was more frequently noted 
in adults than in children. As a rule several loose stools are passed daily, unattended 
with any pain. It usually continues for several days, and may sometimes last 
much longer. 

SICKNESS was rare ; it only occurred in 2 women. 

RASH. — With but few exceptions a rash is present, and it is commonly an 
early symptom ; it was seen on the first day of the disease in 2 of my cases, 
when it presented a roseolar appearance. It is always best marked on the extremi- 
ties, and usually hmited to them, affecting especially the dropsical parts. In 
only 1 case was the rash noticed on the face. It soon changes its appearance, 
and is seen as dark purpuric spots, which tend to run together to form irregular 
blotches. Another common characteristic is its pecuUar distribution as purplish 
streaks along the course of the superficial veins, producing a marbled appearance, 
always on the oedematous extremities. It persists for a long time in the purpuric 
form, having been present three weeks after the commencement of the disease in 
several cases. 

ANAEMIA. — When the disease has persisted for some weeks anaemia is fairly 
constantly seen, although not of a very severe degree. In several cases I found 
the percentage of haemoglobin to vary between 54 and 65, against a normal for 
natives of Bengal of about 70 to 80. In the most severe case the red corpuscles 
numbered 3,090,000 per cubic millimetre. 

On the other hand, the leucocytes are usually somewhat increased, numbering 
about 10,000, but I did not meet with an actual leucocytosis. Unfortunately 
I did not make any differential leucocyte counts, and do not know of any having 
been recorded. 

CIRCULATORY SYSTEM.— The heart may show haemic murmurs, most 
marked at the pulmonary orifice, but I have not found any actual cardiac dilata- 
tion, as so frequently occurs in acute beri-beri. Palpitation and dyspnoea may 
be present when the dropsy is extensive. The pulse is soft, and does not show 
the high tension of Bright's disease. 



Y 



EPIDEMIC DROPSY 189 

The liver and spleen were never f(Jund to be enlarged, but slight jaundice 
was once observed. 

The KNEE JERKS were always present, and no anaethesia could be detected 
in any stage of the affection, thus distinguishing epidemic dropsy from beri-beri. 

In several cases either a burning sensation or deep seated pain in the muscles 
had been complained of, but no tenderness of the calves of the legs could be 
elicited. 

In two cases with extensive dropsy the urine was reported to have contained 
traces of albumen, but this is quite exceptional. 

MORTALITY. — No death occurred in this small outbreak, and only 1 case 
which I saw gave rise to any serious anxiety. 

TREATMENT. — No drugs are known to have any specific action in this disease. 
Rest in bed, and cardiac tonics are indicated, together with diaphoretics and small 
doses of quinine if the temperature is high. 

EPIDEMIC DROPSY REFERENCES 

1878. Cayley, H. Cases of Fever and Acute OEdema treated at the Mayo Hospital (Cal- 

cutta). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 270. 

1879. O'Brien, J. Acute dropsy (Beri-beri ?). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 5 (Khasia Hills). 

1879. O'Brien, J. Is Acute Dropsy (the new disease) Contagious ? Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 127. 

1880. Smith, D. B. Remarks on Acute OEdema (the so-called new disease). Ind. Med. Gaz., 

p. 53. 
1880. Discussion on Acute OEdema at the Calcutta Medical Society. Ind. Med. Gaz., pp. 79, 

104 and 195. 
1881-2. Lovell, Francis. Reprint of a Report on Acute Anaemic Dropsy in Mauritius. Ind. 

Med. Gaz., 1881, p. 342, and 1882, p. 25. 
1892-3. McLeod, Kenneth. Epidemic Dropsy. Trans. Epidemiological Soc, 1892-93, p. 

56, and Ind. Med. Gaz., 1893, pp. 229, 257 and 369. 
1902. Rogers, Leonard. A Recurrence of Epidemic Dropsy in Calcutta in 1901. Ind. Med 
Gaz., p. 268. 

1902. Report of Madras Hospital for 1901, reference in Ind. Med. Gaz., 1902, p. 363. 

1903. Cobb, R. Report on the Outbreak of Epidemic Dropsy in the Barisal Jail (Eastern 

Bengal). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 81. 



I 



VIII. UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVERS 

The most difficult problem in connexion with fevers in the tropics is the differ- 
entiation and description of those which do not fall within the types which now 
have the distinguishing pathological basis of a causative bacterial or protozoal 
organism. Numerous attempts to classify these on purely chnical lines have 
been made from time to time. The most noteworthy is that of the late Alexander 
Crombie, I.M.S.,inhis address at the Indian Medical Congress in Calcutta in 1894 
and at the British Medical Association meeting in 1898. He attempted to define 
no less than four distinct continued fevers, in addition to typhoid ; namely, " simple 
continued fever " of from three to eight days' duration, but sometimes lasting 
from fourteen, twenty-one or twenty-eight days, when it became " Calcutta fever " 
or " Bombay fever " ; low fever of many weeks or months' duration with a tem- 
perature keeping constantly between 99° and 101 '5° affecting only Europeans : 
and a " non-malarial remittent fever " occurring almost entirely in natives, averaging 
six weeks in duration, but often fatal about the eighteenth to the twenty-fourth 
day, with a high continued type of pyrexia, diarrhoea and delirium. Typhoid 
he considered extremely rare in natives of India, only three cases having been 
returned as such in the large Medical CoUege Hospital in ten years, at a date 
antecedent to the Widal test. 

Having examined all the fever cases for several years in the Calcutta hospitals 
where Dr. Crombie himself worked, and having had the great advantage of both 
the serum test for tjrphoid and a knowledge of the parasite of kala-azar, previously 
known in its sporadic form as " malarial cachexia," I have come to the conclusion 
that Dr. Crombie's clinical types correspond to the following fevers. Those he 
termed " simple continued fever " are mainly what I have described on page 300 
under the head of Seven Day Fever, although until very recently this disease 
and malarial fevers were confused together in the Calcutta European Hospital, 
as shown by the seasonal incidence of the cases returned under these two 
headings having been almost coincident {see diagram in the Lancet, Vol. I, 
1903) in 1900 and 1901, although the true seasonal incidence of seven day fever 
and malaria are quite distinct, as shown in diagram VI, p. 315. Crombie's so- 
caUed " Bombay " or " Calcutta fever " corresponds most closely with the mild 
typhoid and paratyphoid referred to on pp. 122 and 145 and also to the early unchar- 
acteristic stages of kala-azar described on p. 53. His low continued type of fever is 
a common feature of many cases of kala-azar in the early and intermediate stages, as 
illustrated by Chart 5 p. 58. There is, however, a class of low fever in Europeans 
corresponding in many respects with his description, which is dealt with below* 

190 



UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVERS 191 

Lastly, his fatal continued fever of natives has been abundantly proved by the 
Widal test, and also by post mortems in some cases, to be nothing but typhoid in 
natives, as indeed. Dr. Crombie admitted in a discussion in Liverpool in 1903, the 
disease being really quite common in them, no less than 6 cases having been detected 
by the serum test in the Medical College hospital at one time, instead of extremely 
rare, as he then held {see p. 109). Thus the differentiation of kala-azar, with its 
very varying pyrexia, and of the seven day fever, together with the proof that 
typhoid is common in natives, in whom the disease has been for long commonly 
returned as " remittent fever," because of the supposed rarity of true tjrphoid 
among them, account for nearly all Dr. Crombie's cUnical types. 

Still, the important and difficult question remains as to what doubtful fevers 
were met with in the com-se of my investigations, which could not be classed with 
the now known types of disease, and what indications there are for expecting further 
fevers of long duration being discovered and differentiated ? A considerable 
number of such doubtful fevers were, in fact, encountered, which appear to be 
divisible into the following groups. Firstly, we have those which were cUnicaUy 
identical with the milder forms of undoubted typhoid, but in which a positive 
Widal test was not obtained, although most of them showed the high continued 
type of pyrexia. These numbered 31 cases, and have already been dealt with 
under the head of paratyphoid {see p. 145). 

Secondly, there is a group of irregular fevers of longer duration under quinine 
treatment than is ever seen in true malaria, showing neither the high con- 
tinued pjrrexia and the t3rpical symptoms and course of typhoid or paratyphoids, 
nor the characteristic features of undoubted sporadic kala-azar. For purposes 
of analysis I have subdivided these into two groups in accordance with the type 
of pyrexia presented, although the separation is an artificial one and the two series 
shade one into the other. The first sub-division includes those cases which showed 
a remittent, a low continued, or an intermittent pjrrexia, with daily rises to over 
101° F. The second series include all those which present a typical low fever 
rarely rising over 101°, in ten cases not above 100°, and generally falling to normal 
in the morning. 

The first of the above sub-divisions, which comprises 27 cases, presents 
the following features. The patients came to hospital at all seasons of the year, 
while the onset of the fever might also occur in any season, although it was most 
frequent in the hot weather in May and June. The duration of the fever was 
very variable, having been from nine to twelve days in 3, and from fifteen to 
twenty-one days in 9, while in 8 it was over thirty-tliree days, and 3 patients 
left hospital while still getting rises of temperature. The general symptoms, 
however, were very mild, and abdominal signs nearly always absent. The spleen 
was normal in 14 and only shghtly enlarged in 8 cases, never markedly so, 
while liver trouble was absent, the whole course being singularly imeventful and 
indefinite. 

The type of the fever is noteworthy in relationship to the class of patient 
attacked, for it has been already pointed out that typhoid and paratyphoid 



192 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

especially attack recently arrived immigrants, while sporadic kala-azar is 
practically limited to Indian born Europeans and those who have lived for a 
number of years in the tropics. Now 10 out of 13 cases, showing either a high or 
low remittent pyrexia, were immigrant Eiu-opeans, mostly between the ages of 1 6 
and 30 years, while, on the other hand, 10 out of 14 cases showing a low 
continued or intermittent type of fever were Indian born Europeans, including 
no less than 8 of the 10 low continued cases. These facts suggest that the remittent 
cases may very possibly be chiefly atypical mild typhoids or paratyphoids (serum 
tests having unfortunately not been carried out in most of them), while on the 
other hand the low continued and intermittent set exactly resemble in their incidence 
and course the milder forms of sporadic kala-azar, before the characteristic stage 
with great enlargement of the spleen has been reached. 

This view is strengthened when we analyse the second group of low fever 
cases into which the low continued ones insensibly pass. These comprise 27 patients, 
no less than 19 of whom were Indian born, while only 3 had been less than two 
years in the country. They are also admitted to hospital at all seasons of the 
year, although the fever began rather more commonly in the cold weather months : 
as in the case of kala-azar. The duration of the fever was also very variable, 
but more frequently it was longer than in the former series. Thus only 7 termi- 
nated within three weeks ; 4 lasted from twenty-two to thirty-three days ; 7 
from thirty-three to sixty ; 7 from two to twelve months ; while 4 exceeded one 
year. Moreover, with the increasing duration of the fever the spleen was more 
frequently and markedly enlarged, for only 1 out of 7 cases in which the fever 
had not lasted over three weeks showed slight enlargement of the organ, yet 9 
out of 11 cases with fever for over two months had enlarged spleens, in several 
of whom it extended from 2 to 4 ins. below the costal margin. Three of the patients 
were free from tever some months after leaving hospital, but the rest I could not 
obtain any news of, so was unable to ascertain how many of them became typical 
cases of kala-azar at a later date. Bearing in mind the very great frequency with 
which precisely similar low continued and low intermittent fever occurs in different 
stages of sporadic kala-azar, and the very close similarity between the seasonal 
and racial incidence of the present series of cases with that disease ; it is clear 
that some at least of them were almost certainly the early stage of kala-azar with 
an insidious onset. Moreover, when we consider the extraordinary way in which 
extremely advanced, and apparently hopeless, cases of kala-azar do sometimes 
lose their fever and completely regain their weight and strength ; we must also 
admit the possibiUty of the disease sometimes terminating in the earher stages 
before it can be diagnosed with certainty by clinical methods. It is very difficult 
to prove the occurrence of such a sequence of events, for spleen punctures were 
rarely done in the European hospital, as it is situated 3 miles from my laboratory 
at the Medical College hospital. In the latter institution, however, I was able 
to find the parasite of kala-azar in a few cases presenting only comparatively 
shght enlargement of the spleen, and in rare instances the patients did completely 
Jlose their fever, recovered their weight, and remained well months afterwards 



UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVERS 193 

without ever having reached the typical advanced stages of the disease. More- 
over, in rare instances, the disease may run its course to a fatal termination without 
the spleen ever extending more than 1 or 2 ins. below the costal margin. 

Another strong point in favour of the view that many of these doubtful irregular 
and low continued and intermittent fevers are either kala-azar, or of a closely 
alUed nature, is their distribution in different parts of India. Thus, although 
over twenty such cases occurred in two years at the Calcutta European hospital, 
yet I could find no cases corresponding to them in either the Lahore or the Bombay 
hospital records, where sporadic kala-azar is either unknown or only occurs as 
rare importations. In both of these cities cases corresponding with the atypical 
typhoid and paratyphoid group were met with, but practically no doubtful long 
fevers corresponding with the earlier stages of kala-azar of Bengal and Madras. 

We may, then, conclude that, although the doubtful irregular long fevers 
under consideration may possibly belong to some one or more still undifferentiated 
tropical diseases, yet they 'present no features incompatible with their being 
either paratyphoids, including the class recently described by Castellani, or early 
cases of sporadic kala-azar, but they require further study and following up for 
long periods before their exact nature can be finally decided. 

LOW FEVER OF EUROPEAN IMMIGRANTS 

In addition to the low continued and intermittent fever occurring in 
chronic kala-azar cases usually among Indian born subjects, there is a low inter- 
mittent form attacking quite a different class, namely European immigrants, who 
have commonly resided several years without a break in the trying damp heat 
of Lower Bengal or Assam. It is seldom met with in hospitals, although not a 
very rare disease in consulting work on account of its long duration. The essential 
feature of the affection is a rise of temperature to between 99° and 100°, or occa- 
sionally to 101°, especially if the patient goes out in the sun or takes any unusual 
exercise. The rise always takes place with great regularity in the middle of the 
day or early afternoon (when the atmospherical temperature has reached about 
the daily maximum) and declines again in the evening, being usually normal in 
the early morning. Accompanying this rise there is a feeling of lassitude and 
disinclination to work, the patient feeling miserable and depressed out of all pro- 
portion to the degree of pjn'exia ; this leads to the temperature being taken 
and its slight elevation detected. It usually begins in the hot weather, but in 
some cases it continues through the following cold season, being of an extremely 
persistent character, and causing much nervous depression. Usually there are 
no physical signs or symptoms of derangement of any special organ, although 
in very long cases some enlargement of the spleen may ultimately develop. The 
blood nearly always shows a reduction of the leucocytes, from 2,000 to 5,000 per 
cubic millimetre being found, while the proportion of lymphocytes are increased 
to about 40 per cent, at the expense of a reduction of the polynuclears to about 
50 per cent, or under, but usually without any marked increase of the large 
mononuclears. 

13 



194 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

As far as I know, this affection only occurs in the damp, hot provinces of India, 
such as Bengal, Assam and Madras, while perhaps the most remarkable feature 
about it is the fact that, at any rate in its earlier and less intractable forms, a 
change to a more favourable chmate produces an immediate cessation of the pyrexia. 
Crombie stated that a sea voyage had this effect, the cool breezes and lower air 
temperature apparently having a beneficial effect. In my experience a change 
to a dried soil is of the greatest benefit, for I have repeatedly found that a trip to 
some place on a dry laterite soil, even with a higher air temperature than the part which 
has been left, caused a sudden and absolute disappearance of the pyrexia as long as 
the patient resided there, although as a rule it recurs very soon after his return 
to a damp alluvial spot. A change to England is often necessary in chronic cases 
to break the fever, but unfortunately it may occasionally recur on return to Lower 
Bengal, even after long leave to Europe. This cessation of the fever in a dry 
climate in the less firmly established cases is the most characteristic feature of 
the disease, and one which will usually differentiate it from organic diseases with 
chronic intermittent fever, which it is most essential to exclude, such as early 
phthisis or other tubercular disease, and the insidious form of amoebic hepatitis 
leading to liver abscess. Thus, I have twice seen phthisis ensue on this low form 
of fever, once after it had persisted for over a year, in which it was probably a 
terminal infection similar to that in the closely allied kala-azar, so that the lungs 
should be most carefully watched. Except for this compHcation, these cases 
usually in the end completely recover, although only after prolonged trouble. 

The occurrence of this disease among European immigrants, who have usually 
resided continuously for several years in an enervating hot damp cHmate, together 
with its immediate disappearance, in early cases, on a change to a dryer or cooler 
place, and the invariable rise of the temperature during the hottest part of the 
day only ; all suggest an enfeeblement of the heat-regulating mechanism by pro- 
longed strain as the essential cause of the excessive diurnal variation of the body 
temperature which occurs. On the other hand, the resemblance of the pyrexial 
curve to the more chronic forms of kala-azar make it possible that the disease 
may be due to some undiscovered protozoal parasite. The common decrease 
of the polynuclear leucocytes may be only a sign of impaired general health, but 
it also suggests the possibiHty of a leucocytozoan parasite, similar to those which 
A. Bentley first found in dogs in Assam, but I have failed to detect any such 
organism in the blood of my low fever cases. In the PhiUipine Islands, again, 
a fever somewhat resembling kala-azar, but without the Leishman-Donovan parasites, 
has been met with by Wherry and WooUey. 

Under the name of DOUBLE CONTINUED FEVER Sir Patrick Manson has 
briefly described a form of pyrexia met with in China characterized by ten to 
fourteen days' fever, followed, after three to seven days' apyrexia or low fever, by 
a recrudescence for about another ten days. More than one person may be attacked 
in a house at the same time. Full clinical details are still wanting, while the few 
references to the disease in recent literature point to its not being a very common 
type in the further East. 



UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVERS 195 

Dr. Rousseau in 1902 described an undetermined fever met with at Hankow, 
in China, among sailors. It began msidiously without rigors, but with shght 
headache and weakness, the temperature rising to about 104°, varying from 1° 
to 1^° C. (3° F.) in the twenty-four hours, and lasting foiu-teen or fifteen days, 
declining by lysis. After two days a second and shorter rise occurs, and convalesence 
is protracted and attended by anaemia. The pulse is slow, 70 to 80, with a tem- 
perature of 103°, the tongue is red and moist ; bowels constipated ; heart, lungs 
and hver normal ; and spleen very slightly enlarged in one case only. There 
were no complications, and quinine had no effect on its course, which ran for 
between ten and fourteen days m four cases, and to about twenty days in three 
more. This is probably the same fever which Manson calls double continued. 

Much further work is required for the elucidation of the unclassified long 
fevers in the East, especially by means of cultures from the vein blood and search 
for new protozoal parasites. 

UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVER REFERENCES 

1894. Crombie, A. Presidential Address on the Fevers of India. Trans. First Indian Medical 
Congress, p. 17. 

1897. Tull- Walsh, J. H. Some Remarks on the Position of Certain Remittent Fevers hitherto 

frequently classed as Malarial, with illustrative cases and temperature charts. Ind. 
Med. Gaz., p. 413. 

1898. Crombie, A. The Unclassified Fevers of Hot Climates. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, 

p. 682, and Jour. Trop. Med., p. 128. 

1902. Rousseau, Dr. Notes siir quelques cas d'une Fievre undeterminee observee sur les 

cotes de Chine. Archives de Med. Navale, Tome 77, p. 129. 

1903. Thorpe, V. G., R.N. Case of Double Continued Fever (Wei-Hai-Wei), Jovir. Trop. 

Med., p. 25. 

1906. Mvisgrove, W. E., Wherry, W. B., and WooUey, P. G., Tropical Splenomegaly. Bui. 

John, Hopkins Hosp., Vol. XVIII, No. 178, p. 28. 

1907. Castellani, Aldo. Notes on Cekses of Fever frequently confounded with Typhoid and 

Malaria in the Tropics. Jovir. Hygiene, Vol. VTI, p. 1. 
1907. Manson, Sir Patrick. Unclassified Fevers. Manual of Tropical Diseases. 



f 



I 



B. Fevers of Short Duration. 

IX. MALARIAL FEVERS 

HISTORICAL. — This has been dealt with in the introductory chapter up to within 
a recent date. 

THE PREVALENCE OF MALARIA IN INDIA.— It is only during the last 
few years that accurate data regarding the prevalence of different varieties of 
malaria and their seasonal incidence in different parts of India have begun to 
accumulate. Previously to the recent more extensive use of the microscope in 
the diagnosis of fevers in India, our knowledge of the subject was derived solely 
from clinical impressions, many of which are now known to be entirely erroneous. 
It will, therefore, be advisable to set forth such reliable facts as have been 
recorded as concisely as possible, as they are now sufficiently numerous to afford 
fairly clear ideas on the distribution of malarial fevers in the most important 
provinces of India, which will at least serve as a guide to what may be expected 
in places where the question still awaits investigators. 

In order to ascertain the prevalence of malarial fevers in any place, it is necesr* 
sary for a competent observer to examine the blood of all fever cases which may 
possibly be malarial for the space of at least one complete year, and to note the 
different varieties of parasites found in them. Table XX gives as many such data 
as I have been able to collect. 

PREVALENCE IN CALCUTTA. — The most complete records are those of 
Calcutta, where Captain J. W. D. Megaw has systematically examined the fever 
cases coming for one year to the large Medical College Hospital, most of the 
patients being natives of India, while I have made similar observations at the 
European General Hospital for two years. Both the monthly and quarterly figures 
for each of the three types of malaria are shown in the first part of the table. Taking 
first my own figures for the European Hospital, out of 200 cases in two years 99 
were malignant tertians, 96 being tertians and only 5 quartans. The quarterly distri- 
bution shows that more than half the cases occur in the last three months of the year, 
and one quarter from July to September. In the first half of the year only 20 
per cent, of the cases occurred, being nearly equally distributed over that period. 
Thus, the most marked malarial season is during the drying up at the end of the 
south-west monsoon from October to December. They are next most common 
during the rainy season, which lasts from the middle of June to early in October, 
and they are much less prevalent during the dry first half of the year. 

197 



198 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



Turning next to the different varieties of malaria we find great differences in 
their monthly distribution. Thus the MALIGNANT TERTIANS have a most marked 
predilection for the last three months of the year, during which 70 per cent, of 
the cases occurred. In the third, or rainy quarter, 23 per cent, were met with, 

TABLE XX.— MONTHLY INCIDENCE OF DIFFERENT FORMS OF MALARIAL 

FEVER IN INDIA. 





s 


s 


1 


s 


'C 
a. 
< 




i 


i 
1 

3 

0? 

S 


>> 

^ 


August. 
September. 
3rd Quarter. 


1 


November. 
December. 


u 

1 

1 


1 


t 

1 




Quartan . 








1 


1 








1 


1 


1 — 


- 1 1- 1 


2 


5 


2-6 


fclcutta, two 
trs' cases in 
uropeans. 


Benign 
Tertian . 


5 


5 


4 


14 


5 


6 


7 


18 


9 10 


j ; 

10 29 11 17 7 


55 


96 


48-0 


Malignant 
Tertian . 


4 


~ 


— 4 


1 


1 


1 3 


i 
8 7 8 23 18 31 21 


70 


99 


49-5 


a sw 
^ 


Total . 


9 


5 


5 


19 


6 


7 


9 22 


18 17 18 53 30 48 29 


107 


200 




"u © 
a bO c8 

© © -P 

Sol 


Quartan . 
Benign 
Tertian . 


6 6 
9 9 


3 
2 


15 
20 


1 
5 


1 
2 


1 3 
4 11 


2 4 — 6 
2 11 18 31 


3 
14 


4 3 10 
201 16 50 


34 
112 


10 
33 


°^3 

to e8 ^ 
\ .2 CO- 


Malignant 
Tertian . 

Total . 


16 


3 


5 


24 


6 


5 


! 
4 16 


7, 13 25 


45 


44 


39' 26109 


193 


67 




31 


18 


10 59 


12 


8 


9, 29 


11 28 43 


82 


61 


63 45179 


339 




1 • 


Quartan . 


1 1 


'2 4 


3 


9 


6 18 


2 2 2 6 2—2 


4 


32 


14 




Benign 
Tertian . 


74 60 


69193 


69 


72 


64 195 


132 140113 


i 
385 137 146 108 


! 
391 1,164 


62-6 




Malignant 
Tertian . 

Total . 


77 


61 


50188 


60 


60 


72192 


87 82' 88 

i -1 


257130139113 


1 
382 1,019 


46 




152112 


121385 


122 


141 


142 405 


221 224 203 


648 269,285223 777 2,215 




K iK 


Quartan . 


123 


122 


141 386 


46 


60 


85191 


72 64 


51187 49 61, 69 


169 


933 


52-3 


lira Hope' 
ar's Pubn 
(Eastern 
engal). 


Benign 

Tertian . 
Malignant 

Tertian . 


16 
72 


9 
35 


20 45 

1 

29136 


49 
61 


27 

28 


9 85 
16 105 


16 7 
19 28 


9 32 7 25 23 

! 

38 85 62 81 78 


55 
221 


217 
o47 


122 
30-6 


. © § 


Mixed . 
Total . 


4 7 


14 25 


11 


8 


8 27 


5 2 


6 13 3 12 7 


22 


87 


4-9 




215 173 205592 167 123118 408 112 101 

1 1 . 1 1 1 . 


104 317121169177 


4671,784 





while in the whole of the first half of the year only 7 per cent, were seen, February 
and March showing no cases either year. The BENIGN TERTIANS also show 
a maximum prevalence in the last quarter, when rather over half the cases occur, 
while over one-fourth were met with in the third quarter. They differ, however, 



MALARIAL FEVERS— INCIDENCE 199 

from the malignant tertians in being more uniformly distributed over the year, 
so that one-third of the cases occur in the first dry half, and in no month did they 
disappear. The QUARTANS in my series were very few, and were still more 
uniformly distributed over the year. 

In Megaw's Calcutta Medical College series of 339 cases, over 90 per cent, 
of which were in natives of India, a very similar distribution of the different 
varieties is seen, the mahgnant tertian being the shortest, the benign tertians 
somewhat more generally distributed. The quartans are of special interest, for 
here there is much more uniform distribution over the year, even than in the case 
of the benign tertians. They were rather more prevalent in the last quarter, 
but the largest number were seen in the first quarter of the year. Adie also notes 
that quartan malaria is met with at all seasons of the year at Ferozpore in the 
Punjab. The large proportion of quartans in the Pubna series is striking, while 
they are also common in Assam. 

These differences in the seasonal distribution of the different varieties of 
malaria does not necessarily indicate that the time of infection in benign tertian 
and quartans is much more extended than that of mahgnant tertians. A more 
likely explanation is the greater tendency of the two milder forms of infection 
to relapse again and again, and so tend to be more frequently adOaitted at a remote 
period from the original infection. This, again, may be due to the much slighter 
degree of constitutional disturbance in these forms leading to neglect of treatment 
or too early cessation of quinine, than in patients subject to the more severe 
malignant tertian infection. This is borne out by a table given by Megaw showing 
a larger proportion of patients with the benign infections who came for treatment 
after having suffered from fever for a month or more. In my own series I have 
also observed a greater frequency of relapses in these mild types of malaria. 

In BOMBAY the seasonal incidence in a large series of cases in the police 
hospital has been worked out by Dr. A. Powell for a period of two and a half years. 
The figures for two complete years are shown in the table, and they present very 
similar features to those just described. The main point of difference is the larger 
proportion of cases met with in the first half of the year, especially in the case 
of mahgnant tertian infections. This is probably associated with the more uniform 
temperature in Bombay than in Calcutta, so that there is no season sufficiently 
cold as to cause an entire cessation of new infections. In Calcutta I showed some 
years ago that there is a very marked and rapid decline in the number of inter- 
mittent fevers in December coincidently with a fall in the minimum air tempera- 
ture to 60° F. or below. This no doubt acts by preventing the complete develop- 
ment of the mosquito cycle, for recently Jansco has shown that rapid development 
of the parasite occurs in anopheles claviger between 24° and 30° C, and a slower 
one at slightly lower ones. At 16° C. no development takes place, but if the tem- 
perature is only lowered to below 16° C. after some development has taken place 
it proceeded, so that it is conceivable that the infection may be continued by 
hibernating mosquitoes. In Bombay and Madras such cold weather as this is not 



200 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

met with. It also shows the maximum prevalence in the last quarter of the year, 
and the next greatest being again in the third rainy quarter, while only one-fourth 
of the cases occurred in the first half of the year. 

In Bareilly, in the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh, Major Buchanan, 
R.A.M.C., found benign tertians to constitute over 90 per cent, of the total 
cases. I also examined all the records of all the fever cases in the Lahore 
Medical College hospital, but here unfortunately the kind of malarial parasites 
found had not been noted. The charts, however, enabled me to classify the 
majority fairly accurately, and they showed a very similar seasonal distribution of 
the benign and malignant tertian types to that met with in other parts of India, 
only there was an early decrease of cases in December, and a very low incidence 
from then on tlu-ough the whole of the first half of the succeeding year. This is 
quite in accordance with the early, severe and prolonged cold season in this province 
as distinquished from Calcutta. In Madras I was unable to get complete records, and 
in only a portion of the very large number of admissions had malarial parasites 
been sought for. The cases rerturned as malarial showed a very similar seasonal 
distribution to those of Bombay, which has nearly the same temperature conditions 
as Madras. C. Donovan, in Madras, found malignant tertian parasites most 
frequently, while quartans were rarest as elsewhere. 

MORTALITY FROM MALARIAL FEVERS IN INDIA.— The vital statistics of 
the civil population of India show that 90 per cent, or more of the deaths are returned 
as being caused by fevers, and they have often been quoted as an evidence 
of the enormous mortahty from malarial fevers. As a matter of fact they afford 
no indication whatever as to the real mortality from fevers in general, and still 
less that of any particular kind, as the deaths are reported by ignorant village 
head men or watchmen, who return every kind of illness as " fever." Some general 
ideas as to the principal causes of death may be obtained from the results of an 
inquiry into 1,000 fatal cases in the very feverish district of Dinajpur in Lower 
Bengal. All the deaths returned as due to fever in one year in selected areas of 
the district were investigated by obtaining the history of the illnesses from the 
relatives of the deceased. 

I thus found that one-third of the deaths attributed to fever were due to 
diseases such as dysentery, tumours, etc., in which fever was not even a marked 
symptom ; another third were caused by such diseases as pneumonia, bronchitis, 
phthisis (the last constituting 9 per cent, of the total) and typhoid ; while the 
remaining third were due probably for the most part to malaria and kala-azar. Of 
the deaths which appeared to be clearly due to malaria no less than three-quarters 
were in children under 15, and the great majority of them occurred in the four last 
months of the year, which we have already seen to be the regular maximum malarial 
season all over India. They formed 15 per cent, of the whole. In a further 18 
per cent, there was evidence of cachexia with marked enlargement of the spleen 
and prolonged fever, but it was impossible to say how many of them were true 
malarial cachexia and how many sporadic kala-azar, although the fact that / 
found the parasites of the last disease in ten out of thirty spleen punctures and 



MALARIAL FEVERS— " EPIDEMIC INDEX" 201 

those of malaria in only five cases, points to the former disease as the cause of many 
of these deaths. We thus arrive at the conclusion that at any rate in this specially 
malarial district the deaths really due to malarial fever probably amounted to 
but from 20 to 25 per cent, of the total fever mortality, which is still an appaUingly 
high rate for such a readily curable disease. As the prevention of infection by 
mosquitoes in village communities in India is an absolute impossibility, for 99 per 
cent, of the population of this district live in separate houses, widely dispersed 
among rice and jute fields, I advised the distribution of quinine through the agency 
of the village schoolmasters, who are in a position to reach the children, among 
whom the vast majority of the deaths occur. This proposal has been extensively 
adopted in India, and when the contemplated extension of the cinchona planta- 
tions to meet the increasing demand for the drug is carried out something will be 
done to lessen the terrible mortality from malaria among native children in India. 

THE ENDEMIC INDEX OF MALARIA. — An important advance was made 
when Professor Koch showed that in very malarious places a considerable per- 
centage of the apparently healthy children showed malarial parasites in their 
blood, from whom mosquitoes might become infected and in turn convey the 
disease to Europeans living in houses near native huts. Stephens and Christo- 
phers, in the course of three years' labours as Commissioners of the Royal Society 
in Africa and India, confirmed and greatly extended our knowledge in this direction. 
They showed that the degree of malaria in any place could be measured by the 
percentage of healthy children showing malarial parasites in their blood, and 
termed this figure the " endemic index of malaria." Thus, in Calcutta they 
examined the blood of a large number of children without finding any malarial 
parasites and, consequently, recorded the endemic index as 0. At Barrackpore, 
15 miles north of Calcutta, 7' 7 per cent, of the children were infected, and this 
figure represents the endemic index of that place. On reaching Jalpaiguri, some 
300 miles further north, and contiguous to the district of Dinajpur referred to 
above, the endemic index rose to 12' 7 per cent., and in the notoriously malarial 
Duars, a tea planting area at the foot of the Himalayas, rates of from 43 to 72 per 
cent, were met with. In the latter places a particular variety of anopheles (A. 
Listoni), which was specially frequently found to be infected with malaria, was 
common, although it is rarely found in less malarious parts. 

This method of testing the relative amount of malaria in a district is of great 
value, but requires an expert microscopist with a good deal of leisure. By its means 
they showed that only a few areas of the places they visited were intensely malarial, 
and that there are still some unknown factors influencing the prevalence of this 
disease, although the carrying powers of different varieties of anopheles has doubt- 
less a good deal to do with it. They had not time to work out the variations in 
the endemic index in different seasons of the year, with regard to which more 
information is still required. That it varies greatly is shown by some observations 
I made in very malarial tea gardens in the Nowgong district of Assam, where 
the endemic index reached the very high figure of 80 per cent, in October, at 



202 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

the end of the rains, but was only 30 per cent, in the same place early in April 
at the end of the less malarial cold season. 

Stephens and Christophers maintained that new infections of malaria could 
not arise in Calcutta, because the endemic index was 0, and they had not found 
the species of anopheles which most readily conveys the infection. This was con- 
trary to all clinical experience, and moreover their examinations of children were 
made at seasons other than that of the maximum prevalence of malaria in Calcutta. 
Captain Megaw and myself, therefore, examined the blood of 200 children in Novem- 
ber at the height of the malarial season in the suburbs of Calcutta, from which the 
majority of malarial cases are admitted. Our observations confirmed those of the 
Commission in showing an absence of infection in the children, except that a low rate 
of infection was found at one place five miles south of Calcutta and resembling Bar- 
rackpur m its situation. Even Garden Reach, from which many cases of recent malaria 
are admitted, occurring among European horse dealers who come from non-malarial 
parts of Australia, the rate in 30 children was 0, although malaria was, at the time of 
our observations, so rife among the native pohce that the great majority of them had 
been to hospital for fever with malarial parasites in their blood. It is, therefore, clear 
that an " endemic index " of even in the malarial season is not proof that there is 
no malaria in any given place, although a high rate is certainly evidence of a place 
being very malarial. Further, Megaw has recorded a number of cases of malaria 
arising in the heart of the native portion of Calcutta in children who had never 
been away from the town for a single day. Moreover, Captain S. P. James (who 
has independently published a full report to Government on the work of the 
Malaria Commission to which he was attached while they were in India) has stated 
that malaria is absent from certain places in Assam, because he failed to find malarial 
parasites in the blood of twenty or so children living there. In my experience 
such a small number does not give reliable results, for in one instance twenty 
slides would have given as the endemic index, while thirty cases gave one of 
15 per cent. It is clear, then, that this test must be used with caution and malaria 
must not be declared to be absent because a few healthy children show no parasites 
in their blood at any particular season of the year. 

THE SPLEEN TEST FOR MALARIA.— Dempster's spleen test for malaria 
was first used by him in India in 1845, in an inquiry into the prevalence of malaria 
along the Dehli canal, twenty children and twenty adults being examined at each 
place for enlargement of the organ, and a much higher spleen rate was found in 
the more malarious places than in others with less fever. In my Dinajpur and 
other inquiries I found the spleen rate to increase with the increased death rate 
from malarial fevers, while the Malarial Commission also showed that the spleen 
rate in children rose with the increase of the " endemic index " for malaria, and 
that too in Lower Bengal, where sporadic kala-azar is very prevalent. The death 
rate of the latter disease is so high in children that it is unlikely that any marked 
proportion of the enlarged spleens found among them can be due to that disease, 
unless it is present in the epidemic form which recently overran the Assam Valley. 



MALARIAL FEVERS— PREDISPOSING CAUSES 203 

The advantage of this test is that it can be very rapidy applied by any medical 
man, and will ordinarily give all the information necessary as to the prevalence 
of malaria. Moreover, it can be used for comparing the unhealthiness of neigh- 
bouring places or parts of a district at any time of the year, and this is very 
important, as such inquiries have usually to be carried out in the cold season 
when malaria is not very prevalent, and the endemic index may be very low, in 
spite of much malaria in the season of its maximum prevalence. 

GROUND WATER LEVELS and Malaria.— In the Dinagpur district I found 
a close relationship between high ground water levels throughout the year and 
both high spleen and malarial death rates, while low ground water levels were 
accompanied by much less prevalence of malaria. The great improvement in 
health in Algeria, following a lowering of the ground water level by drainage, shows 
the great value of this measure, which is about to be tried in some very malarial 
parts of Jessore (Lower Bengal). 

RACE INCIDENCE AND ACQUIRED IMMUNITY.— The work of Koch, 
Stephens and Christophers, in the Dutch West Indies and Africa respectively, on 
the great prevalence of malaria among children and the practical immunity of 
adults, came as a surprise to workers in India, where malaria is common enough 
in native adults. The latter observers have, however, shown that in the most 
malarious parts of India, such as the Duars already mentioned, a very similar, if less 
extreme degree of infection in children exists, while adult native immunity prevails 
to some degree, and that Europeans living close to native huts are very Uable to 
infection. A considerable degree of segregation of Europeans exists in most 
Indian stations, owing to the cantonments for European soldiers and the residences 
of European officials being situated at a distance from native towns. From one- 
quarter to half a mile is considered sufficient distance by the Malarial Commission, 
and should always be enforced. Rest bungalows, etc., should also be placed at a 
similar distance from native villages. The dosage of native children with quinine 
in a community was also shown in the Mian Mir experiment to prevent infection 
of the adults. The immediate treatment of all native servants suffering from 
malaria is also very advisable for the protection of their European masters. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF MALARIA.— A severe infection with malarial 
parasites will doubtless produce fever without the aid of any predisposing causes. 
Nevertheless, the first attack may appear after removal for some time from the 
place where the infection was contracted, when some predisposing cause allows 
the parasites to multiply more rapidly and produce an attack of ague. Again, 
in a series of admissions for malaria the number of fresh infections is probably 
smaller than the number of relapses. For these reasons various debihtating causes 
may often be important factors in exciting an attack of malarial fever. In some 
places chills produced by a sudden fall of some 30° F. due to heavy rain, may cause 
an increase of malarial admissions, while in another the trying damp heat of a 
break in the monsoon may have a similar depressing influence. A chiU on passing 



204 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

from a hot to a colder climate often has the same effect, as also in moving from 
the Indian plains to the hills or to Europe. In all these cases a latent malaria 
is roused into activity, and many cases of the disease may thus arise either in the 
minimum malarial season in the tropics or after removal from a malarial region, 
being more common in quartans and benign tertians than in the mahgnant form. 
Such relapses are evidence of insufficient treatment and indicate a prolonged 
course of quinine. 

AGE AND SEX INCIDENCE. — It has already been mentioned that malaria 
is specially prevalent and fatal among native children. In the case of my Euro- 
pean series in Calcutta we have two different classes to deal with, namely, the 
immigrant class and those born and bred in India, who are nearly all of mixed 
European and Indian blood, and for the most part live in parts of the town which 
are also inhabited by natives. The majority of malarial cases among immigrants 
occur in young adult males because these form such a large proportion of this 
class. Among the indigenous Indian bred Europeans nearly half the patients 
were under the age of 20, while 28 per cent, were 15 or less, so that there does not 
appear to be so marked an incidence among European as among native children 
as compared with adults. This is probably due to their being much less exposed 
to malaria in Calcutta than natives are in the districts, so that Europeans suffer 
less as children and so do not acquire the same degree of relative immunity when 
they reach adult life. The sexes of the Indian born Europeans was equal in the 
case of children of 15 years and under, but over that age there was a marked 
preponderance of males, namely, 40 males to 24 females. This is partly due to 
an excess of males of this class in the population, and partly to the men moving 
about in the districts where they are more exposed to infection than in Calcutta 
itself. I find no difference in the prevalence of benign and mahgnant tertian 
fevers in my European series. Among the immigrant class (which include a 
few sailors, who had contracted malaria in Mauritius or other ports), nearly one- 
half had been a year or more in the country, while only one-fifth, including those 
who reached India with malaria, came to hospital within the first three months 
of residence in India. One-fourth were attacked in from three to twelve months' 
residence, so that of those attacked nearly half suffered within one year of coming 
to India. 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF MALARIAL FEVERS 

The following account of malarial fevers is mainly based on an analysis of 
the records and charts of some 200 consecutive cases in which malarial parasites 
were found by me in two years' records at the European General Hospital, 
Calcutta. Captain Megaw's account and tables of malaria simultaneously 
examined at the Native Medical College Hospital being also frequently referred 
to. 

HISTORY OF THE ONSET OF THE DISEASE 

On admission of a patient suffering from fever the following points in the 
history of the case may be of some use in assisting the diagnosis : — 



MALARIAL FEVERS— CLINICAL ACCOUNT 205 

DURATION OF FEVER BEFORE ADMISSION.— In three-fifths of my malarial 
cases the fever had lasted le3S than seven days, but in the remaining two-fifths 
it had been present for eight or more days, which would nearly absolutely exclude 
seven day fever described on page 310. A long history was more frequent in 
benign tertians and quartans than in malignant ones. 

RIGORS. — Ague, or shivering fits, at the onset is one of the most character- 
istic features of malarial fevers, and especially so when they recur at regular 
intervals of two or three days. They may also occur in any fever in the tropics, 
not excluding typhoid itself, while they are very common at the beginning of seven 
day fever, although only exceptionally are repeated in that disease. The history 
obtained of the occurrence of rigors may vary much in malarial fevers as shown 
in Table XXI. 

TABLE XXI.— RIGORS IN MALARIAL FEVERS. 

I Malignant Benign i rp , , 

Tertians. Tertians. I iotaJ. 



Rigors noted to have been absent 8 i 4 

Rigors recorded but frequency not noted ... 29 i 41 

Rigors occiirring daily 22 } 25 

Rigors every other day 14 18 



Totals ; 73 I 88 



12 
70 
47 
32 



161 



Rigors have thus most frequently been recorded as present daily, especially 
in double benign tertians and more rarely in quotidian malignant tertians. 

Some of the older Indian writers lay much stress on the diagnostic value of 
the greater frequency with which the rise of temperature occurs in the morning 
in malarial as opposed to other fevers. This was found to be borne out by 
such of my cases as this point was recorded in, for in 22 the rigor came on in 
the forenoon, in 12 between noon and 8 p.m., and only in 9 during the evening 
or night. Megaw also notes that the hour of onset of the fever is remarkably 
uniformly in the forenoon or early afternoon. It may occur in the evening, but 
only very exceptionally in the night or early morning. In this last respect malarial 
fevers differ from kala-azar, in which rises often occur in the early morning hours, 
especially during the double remittent type which is so characteristic of thia 
disease {see Chart 3, p. 56). I have never seen a double daily rise in a malarial 
fever, although Megaw obtained a history of it in one case of mixed malignant 
and benign tertian infection. The shivering fit. in malaria usually lasts about half 
an hour, but may continue for an hour or more, especially in malignant tertians. 

HEADACHE. — After rigors, headache is the most frequently mentioned 
symptom, and was rarely noted to be absent. It was occasionally severe, but 
variable in its position, and seldom presented the severe frontal type with pains. 



-206 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

in the back of the eyes, which is so constant in seven day fever. It was more 
frequently noted in the malignant than in the benign tertian forms. 

Pains in the body and limbs were also frequently noted in malaria during 
the fever, but were nothing like so constant and severe as in seven day fever. 

SICKNESS AND NAUSEA are very commonly present in malarial fevers, 
having been noted in about three-fourths of the malignant tertians and in half 
the benign cases, they probably occurred in a still further number in which they 
were not recorded. This symptom is less frequent in the seven day fever, in which 
it was noted in only one-fourth of the cases. 

CONDITION ON ADMISSION 

There is nothing very characteristic about the general appearance of a malarial 
patient, but the following points may be noted on examination. 

THE TONGUE shows furring very frequently, but commonly of only shght 
degree. It is uniform in its distribution, and thus differs from the red edged 
tongue of typhoid and seven day fever : a point which I have frequently found 
of great service in the cHnical differentiation of the latter disease from malaria. 

THE PULSE RATE is also of great value for the same purpose, for in malaria it 
very seldom shows a slow rate accompanying a high temperature, as is so frequently 
the case in seven day fever, especially in the malaria-resembling terminal type 
{see p. 303). Out of 49 malarial cases with pulse records, in only 5 was it noted 
as being under 100 with a temperature of 103° or over, while in only 3 more 
was it between 100 and 109. In all the other cases the pulse registered 110 
or over with such temperatures, a rate which is practically never seen in seven 
<iay fever, except very rarely just after the onset of the fever and before rest in 
bed has been obtained, but never, in my experience, during the terminal rise 
which otherwise closely simulates mahgnant tertian malaria. A rapid pulse, then, 
is almost diagnostic of malaria as against seven day fever, and attention to this 
point will prevent the common error of returning the terminal cases of seven day 
fever as malarial. 

THE LUNGS very rarely show any abnormal physical signs in malaria, pharyn- 
gitis and bronchial catarrh being especially uncommon in this fever, as compared 
with influenza and typhoid. Serious lung complications, such as pneumonia 
and pleurisy are equally rare. 

THE HEART is also very seldom affected by any inflammatory compHcation 
in this disease, although in chronic cases after repeated attacks with marked 
anaemia haemic murmurs may be detected. 

THE BOWELS are commonly constipated, so that a purge is generally indi- 
cated, although quinine does act efficiently in a true malarial fever even during 
constipation. Occasionally severe diarrhoea may occur in malaria, which may 



MALARIAL FEVERS— CLIXICAL ACCOUNT 207 

rarely be so severe as to be mistaken for cholera. When working at the blood 
changes in cholera, I met with such a case in the cholera ward, in which the 
absence of the leucocytosis, which is so constant in that disease, and the presence 
of a large mononuclear increase led me to search for, and find malarial parasites, 
and the patient recovered under quinine. 

THE LIVER was normal in three-fourths of the patients. In the remaining 
fourth it was enlarged, more frequently in mahgnant than in benign tertians. In 
only 2 per cent., however, did the edge of the organ reach more than 2 ins. below 
the costal margin, against 23 per cent, of kala-azar cases, so that marked enlarge- 
ment of the liver is much more common in the latter disease in Europeans. In 
Megaw's native malarial patients enlargement of the liver was found in 20 per 
cent. The liver may sometimes be markedly enlarged in true malarial cachexia, 
and in the Punjab, where kala-azar is unknowTi, I have occasionally seen the Hver 
reach down to about the navel in chronic malaria, so that too much reliance must 
not be placed on this point in the differential diagnosis of the two conditions. 

THE SPLEEN is more frequently enlarged than the liver in malaria. In my 
European series the organ could be felt below the ribs in 44 per cent., and in 
Megaw's native hospital one in 40 per cent. In both series enlargement was found 
rather more often in benign than in malignant tertians, and in the quartans in 
as many as 60 per cent, which is in accordance with the longer histories of fever 
in the latter types. 

It appears, then, that in early cases of malaria the spleen is more often normal 
than enlarged, so that the absence of enlargement is no evidence of a case not 
being malarial. In 16 per cent, the organ reached to from 2 to 4 ins. below 
the ribs, while in 4 to 5 per cent, it extended to the navel, or rarely beyond that 
point. Very large spleens are also met Avith in malarial cachexia in the Punjab 
in the absence of kala-azar, so that it is clear that although these great degrees of 
enlargement are very much more common in kala-azar than in true malarial 
cachexia, yet they may also occur in the latter disease, especially in the quartan 
variety, sufficiently frequently to make it unsafe to rely on such huge spleens 
being diagnostic of the more serious kala-azar as against malaria. 

THE URINE may be increased during the cold stage, and decreased and of 
high specific gravity after the sweating one, but it very rarely shows albumen 
or other marked changes in uncomplicated cases. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVES IN DIFFERENT TYPES OF MALARIA 

The symptoms and physical signs just described are seldom sufficiently char- 
acteristic as to allow of a certain diagnosis of malaria. The temperature curves, 
on the other hand, are for the most part so typical that they commonly enable 
a confident opinion being formed not only as to the presence of malaria, but also 
of the variety of the disease. A lack of knowledge of the value of the temperatm-e 



208 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



curves in the diagnosis of malaria has largely been the cause of so many 
other fevers being confused with it in India, although these types have long been 
familiar to European and American workers, and were, indeed, fully described, 
as far as was possible before the days of the thermometer, by ancient ^^Titers. The 
same types are met with in India at the present day, and although deviations 
from the normal curves do occur, yet it is not too much to say that a consider- 
able proportion of malarial fevers can be diagnosed clinically without the use of the 
microscope by attention to the points about to be described and illustrated. For 
this purpose it is important that the temperature should be charted every four 
hours, the usual morning and evening records not being sufficient for bringing 
out the characteristic curves in the most typical manner. 



TEMPERATURE CURVE IN MALIGNANT TERTIANS 

To begin with the most characteristic form of malaria, the typical chart of 
which can scarcely be mistaken for any other fever, we will take the common 
malignant tertian variety. Chart 36 shows the termination of one paroxysm, 



Chart 36 (Case 1,371). 



Daym'D'.' 




Malignant tertian malaria, showing three typical paroxysms, and yielding rapidly 
to quinine given during the last paroxysm. 

followed by three complete ones, quinine not having been given until the middle 
of the last one. The important point to notice is that the febrile paroxysm lasts 
for from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, so that the rise of temperature takes place 
only every other day. The remissions are also quite short, being only of a few 
hours' duration, instead of twenty-four hours or more as in a single benign tertian 
infection. Another pretty constant feature is that soon after the initial rapid rise 
of temperature, which reaches 103° or 104° as a rule, there is a remission of a degree or 
two followed by a second shght rise, so that the top of the curve is not flat, but 
is broken by a short depression. The dechne at the end of any paroxysm is not 



MALARIAL FEVERS— TEMPERATURE CURVES 



209 



as rapid as the rise, but generally takes eight to twelve hours. The fall of tempera- 
ture between the paroxysms may not reach the normal line, in which case the 



Chabt 37 (Case 1.214). 




r^Z' 



i-41' 



-40° 



rid' 



•58° 



rSe" 



t^SS' 



Typical malignant tertian malaria, showing a short abortive final 
rise of temperature. 

chart assumes a remittent character, or it may touch normal every other day, 
although there is not as much tendency for it to reach a markedly sub-normal 
point as there is in benign tertians. A succession of two or three such paroxysms, 
each extending over two days, is quite characteristic of mahgnant tertian malaria, 



Chart 38 (Cas 




Malignant tertian malaria showing a steady decline in the 
height of the paroxysms imder quinine treatment. 



14 



210 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



and enables it to be confidently diagnosed from the chart alone. If quinine is 
given immediately on admission usually only one complete typical paroxysm will 
be seen, although it may be followed by a shorter abortive rise, such as the second 



Chabt 39 (Case 780). 




r*2° 
L410 

•59* 



-58° 



-S70 



tZQ" 



I 



Malignant tertian malaria with well-marked remissions during 

the pyrexia, which reached the normal in the last paroxysm 

simulating a quotidian type. 

complete one in Chart 37, lasting for only about twenty hours or even less. Its 
height also tends to become lower, as in the third paroxysm of Chart 38. The slight 
remission at the height of the curve may also be absent as in Chart 38, or this 
remission may be so marked as to reach the normal line, as in the second paroxysm 
of Chart 39, and thus simulate a quotidian fever. 



Way-i>f.OK 




'x 




1 


C 


HAJ 

3, 


iT 40 ( 
I0 


Cas 


e 9 


2). 


6, 




r J 


1 » 


r 


£■42' 


106"- 
105° 

1 105° - 

il02°- 
1 101° - 

"^ 100° - 
99= - 
98° - 
97° - 


vr-v 


::i^ 


4f^ 






:::-;;:;;.-?■. 






■ r 














n 


^ 
P 










...!..,. 


. 1 






:v.i;.v. 


-.[..i. 


::;t.:: 


r41* 


i 














. 


Is 


^m. 




^: 






-f.v 


: 


'< . 


> 




Er^ 


•.T- 


^40° 

^ t 


:;;i 










h 










' - 




'.','.Z'.'^ 


;:::!:::; 


:--|::; 


:^~ 




:--■■•;: 


-'■»■ 


i'^ 


»t A 








' 




■r:v::: 


r.t-:. 


■■■.:■". 


T ri 


.-: ,- 






- :.- 


-..;.... 


-59* § 








A 


/ 


-;■■■ 


lEfL 












-. .f .. 




■ S- 


V/ ! 


...... 








.,.,... 


-.:. 


:3^i 


v.t.l 


rr:i':::,:\ 


/ 


::-;5.-:' 


y t } 






r 




:::x:" 


^58"! 


...;....^.., 




-. » 


I / % 1 






■ir[ 




V 


....:...} 




— 4--- 


^ :;H ■;:;.;: 


V 




l.^ 






;.|:: 


"■»'■ 


; 1- 




;;;i:.; 








.:;i".".". 


■'.r.i"'.!; v^^i.'.. 


1 


^J_ 


V^^ 


A 


:i^ 


i. 


f-57° 


:::;(::.■ 


:;b 


~~ 


''^': 




■■i^'. 


::'X::: ':::k:. 




, 


mm 


^ 


?^ 


. ..:. , 


: 




. j... 




— t — 


.-4::; 


-. 


-:B 


• 


:-i:. 




i^ 






rFr^^:; 


:;;:!:: 


r56° 



Malignant tertian malaria, showing a severe infection with remittent 

fever, and lasting six days under quinine treatment, the longest 

duration met with. 



MALARIAL FEVERS— MALIGNANT TERTIAN 



211 



In severe cases the fever may be of a remittent type for several days, the 
temperature remaining contmuously above normal, but the longest period I have 
seen a fever showing malarial parasites in the blood, under efficient quinine 
treatment, is six days, as iUustrated by Chart 40. This is a point of the greatest 
practical importance in India, where the great resemblance of kala-azar and other 
long fevers to malaria formerly led many, including myself, to look on some remit- 
tent fevers, which resisted quinine for many days, as still possibly malarial in nature. 
This I am now convinced is a serious error, for no such case with malarial para- 
sites has been met with in two years' work among the 1,350 consecutive fever 
cases in which I have microscoped the blood. 

QUOTIDIAN MALIGNANT TERTIANS.— Italian authors, followed by some 
Enghsh writers, have described quotidian mahgnant tertian fevers with a daily 
rise of temperature, and even state that there are two varieties of the disease in 
accordance with whether the small ring parasites are or are not pigmented. On 
the other hand, we have the high authority of Koch for saying that only one 
malignant form of malaria is known, whose curve usually presents the character 
described above, but which may occasionally present shorter paroxysms, and 



Chakt 42 (Case 767). 



Chart 41 (Case 153). 



p«r^Ay 




/ 




a 




13 


1 iu 


106°- 

105° - 

> KM'- 

1 lOZ- 

f 10?° - 

1 >oi" ■ 
'^ ioo°. 

99° 

yrtKbif 
08 - 

1)7° - 


■•t* 


i- 






...,. 




Hi 












"■n:/':::H 




i 






';'-■ 








i 












■P- 


|: 






j— 


I 


^^'i:^:^. 


:yf 




A 


.!.- 


-4" ■ 


:::!:r: . ;:J.:: 


■■! II 




/ ■' 


* ■ 






I 


' 


rx::. -. ..;.:: 


^> 


1 




/ 




i' 


";j:"' ■■■■£'■ 




1 




/ 




k 






1 


s/ 




'^■-: 


^ 


m 


V.'.j.'.. 




•- 


, ' ■ 



1-41° 
^40- 



i-39' f 



■58° 



r 
^ 



rSC 




Malignant tertian malaria, showing an 
apparently quotidian type probably 
due to ghortening of the paroxysms 
under quinine. 



Temperatiu"e curve in a fatal irregular 
malignant tertian malaria, whose true 
cause was not recognized until numer- 
ous rings and crescents were found 
by a routine blood examination. 



thus assume a quotidian appearance. I have carefully watched for such quotidian 
cases, but they have been very rare in my experience in India. Among over 100 
cases showing the small malignant tertian parasites I have only two charts showing 
a quotidian type of fever for two and three days respectively in each case, one 
of these is shown in Chart 41 , the paroxysms being of only from twelve to sixteen 



212 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

hours, although very numerous mahgnant tertian parasites were found. The 
other case is a doubtful one, as the chart of the first paroxysm is incomplete, and 
the second one, which followed after an apyrexial interval of sixteen hours, lasted 
only twenty hours but may have been an abortive one. I could not find any 
differences in the parasites of these cases and those of typical malignant tertians, 
while it appears to me that they may possibly be explained as being due to an 
exaggeration of the usually slight remission at the height of the temperature curve 
of typical cases, such as the second paroxysm in Chart 39, already referred to. 
Whatever may be the case in Italy, and perhaps in Africa, I am of the opinion that 
there is not as yet sufficient evidence of the existence of a separate quotidian malaria 
in the East, and nothing is to be gained by subdividing the malignant tertian fevers 
without further proof of undoubted distinctions between the clinical course and the 
parasites of this tjrpe. Irregular forms such as the fatal case shown in Chart 42 
are sometimes met with and may occasion great difficulty, this case having only 
been recognized through the routine examination of the blood. 



THE DURATION OF THE PAROXYSM IN MALIGNANT TERTIAN MALARIA. 
— As the 'prolonged rise of temperature is so characteristic of malignant tertain 
fever, and the most distinguishing clinical point between it and the benign forms, 
it is of importance to know how constantly the disease shows this feature. In 
analysing my cases for this purpose those in which no complete paroxysm took 
place after admission to hospital, as well as thelowintermittents (still to be mentioned), 
have had to be excluded. Of the remaining cases four -fifths showed the pyrexia 
lasted for twenty -four hours or more, while inmost of them it was of over twenty-eight 
hours' duration. In haK the exceptions the duration was between twenty and 
twenty -four hours, so that in only 10 per cent, was it under twenty hours, and in 
some of these quinine had been taken before the commencement of the rise, 
which probably shortened its duration. It is clear from this that a pyrexia of 
twenty-four or more hours' duration is met with in the vast majority of 
mahgnant tertian paroxysms, which as we shall see serves at once to distinguish 
this form from the great number of benign tertians and quartans. 

LOW INTERMITTENT FEVER IN MALIGNANT TERTIANS.— One more 
variation from the normal t3rpe remains to be considered. In nearly 10 per cent, 
of my malignant tertians a low intermittent form of pyrexia, rising to only about 
100° F. occurred, in more than half of which crescents in larger or smaller numbers 
were found together with a variable, but usually small, number of rings. These cases 
are important because they are very liable to be overlooked and sufficiently pro- 
longed quinine treatment neglected. Thus, in one case illustrated in Chart 42, 
the true cause of the fever was not suspected until I reported finding crescents in 
the blood several days after admission, up to which time no quinine had been 
given, the case terminated fatally two days later in spite of the drug being then 
commenced. 



MALARIAL FEVERS— BENIGN TERTIAN 



213 



RECRUDESCENCES AND RELAPSES. — This leads to the question of relapses. 
It has been noted by several workers in India, and especially by A. Buchanan, 
I. M.S., at Nagpur, that there is a marked tendency in malignant tertians for 
the fever to recrudesce about eight days after the temperature has fallen to 
normal, and that this reappearance of the fever is accompanied by the presence 
of crescents as well as rings in the blood. This takes place chiefly in patients 
who have not continued to take full doses of quinine after the cessation of 
the primary fever. The low fever just described may occur during this quiescent 
period. Moreover, true relapses, as opposed to the recrudescences after a short 
interval, may occur for a long period after the first attack, although in India they 
appear to be less frequent in malignant than in the benign forms of malaria. Nor- 
man Chevers suffered from typical malarial fever with ague for thirty years after 
infection in Chittagong, and long after his return to England. Prolonged use 
of quinine in prophylactic doses of 10 to 15 grains twice a week, either on two 
consecutive days as Koch advises, or at intervals of three and four days, is 
necessary to prevent these relapses, and for this reason it is essential to make 
a microscopical examination of the blood in all doubtful fevers which may 
possibly be malarial. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVE IN BENIGN TERTIANS 

The classical curve of a benign tertian malaria is a rise of temperature every 
other day as in the single infection shown in Chart 43. Among Europeans in India, 



JkirdDi.^ 



Chart 43 (Case 1,438). 




r't2 



-41° 



-40 



■■39° I 



JUm " 



-58" 5 



-57^ 



r56' 



•35' 



Typical single benign tertian malaria uninfluenced by 10 grain doses of quinine every 
other day, but yielding rapidly to 30 grains daily. 



however, this form is much rarer than the less typical double infection producing 
daily paroxysms of fever. Chart 43 shows a pyrexial rise every other day for four 



214 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



paroxysms, which could not well be produced by anything except a single benign 
tertian infection, but such a chart is never seen in patients who are treated with 
full doses of quinine immediately they come under observation. This patient 



DnyefDis. 




/ 




O. 




lUT 44 

L h 


(Case 6). 
15- 1 


If, 




^ 




j? J 


c-42° 


105° - 

f 103' 

f 102° ■ 
1 

|ioi^- 
^ioo°. 

99° 
98 


J 






- 






S 






": 




- 










■ 




■ 


■^ 




- 


-■ 


■* 




^ 








[ 










HI' 






- 


: 


* 


. 








r^ 






" 


^ 








■■£ 


^40' 


s. 








- J 


al 




::4: 


' 


Y- 


















ul 


■"]- 


- 


- jl 


-It' 


K 




lv|r 


.-■ 


y !- 


. _ 


— 


- 


.::;... 


-I" 


_| 


!■ 1 i. 


1 


/I 1 






* 


- 


< 


« 


":: ;■;." 


: ^5 


}f 


- - 


\\y 


JL 


li 


•..[■::: 


:4-. 




.. 










■"SS"! 


~ 


- 




\ 


ab t/r 


■■:r 


-, 


^ ■ 


. 


-' 


*- 


ift; 


4 




- 




!L 


=1^ 


11. 


V 


i^ 


r-»— 


^ 


■ 


, 




'••- 


-S7- 




- 




/jf 




^ 


>l 





> 


/ 


^" 


*" 




i 






- 








' . 


■■•- 




1 
f 






' 




■ l 


rSG" 



Typical double benign tertian malaria yielding rapidly to 60 grains. 

only had 10 grains every other day up to his admission on the eleventh, and as 
soon as he was given 30 grains a day the fever ceased after one day. The height 
to which the temperature rose in this chart is also noteworthy, 105° F. or over 

Chart 45 (Case 34). 




Double benign tertian malaria yielding in two days to quinine. 

having been reached in three of the four attacks : a very common occurrence in 
benign tertians, but much rarer in mahgnant ones. 

Double benign tertians are illustrated in Charts 44 and 45, the first showing 



I 



MALARIAL FEVERS— BENIGN TERTIAN 



215 



three paroxysms in a patient attacked while in hospital, and the second, two in 
as many days. Note that the temperature only remains raised for from eight 
to sixteen or, more rarely twenty hours, in marked contrast to the much 
longer duration in malignant tertians as already illustrated. In a place where 
malaria is prevalent a fever which rises very rapidly to 105° or 106° with a rigor, 
and falls again in a few hours to normal or sub-normal, is nearly always a benign 
tertian malaria, especially if the patient appears to be quite well and able to go 
about his work in the apyxetic intervals ; this would be impossible, if suffering 
from any septic or inflammatory condition producing such severe daily fever 
with rigors. Chart 46 also shows a very high temperature, with a quick pulse, 
falling rapidly to sub-normal. It is a benign tertian case, admitted during a 
paroxysm of fever, in which prompt quinine treatment prevented any further 



Chabt 46 (Case 252). 




DayefDis 



Chart 47 (Cass 8). 




L410 
^40° 



r59" 



-58° 



-57° 



rSS" 



Benign tertian malaria, showing only 
the end of one paroxysm under 60 
grains of quinine daily. 



Severe benign tertian malaria with remittent 
fever. 



ague fit. So rapid is the effect of full doses of quinine in cutting short the attacks 
of this fever, that one-fourth of my benign tertians showed either, only such a 
partial paroxysm, or no fever at aU, after admission to hospital. Another fourth 
showed the daily rises of a double infection, while 12 per cent, gave a history of 
a single infection with fever every other day, 

Only 6 per cent, actually showed the typical single tertian temperature curve 
in hospital, although probably a fair number of those which were cut short by 
quinine after a single paroxysm might have been single infections. Microscopic- 
ally, too, infections showing the parasites in all stages of development were by 
far the commonest, so that it is clear that a double infection is the general rule, 
and typical single tertian charts are quite exceptional. The general belief in 
India up to a recent time that benign tertian malaria was very much less common 



216 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



than the malignant form no doubt arose in consequence of the rarity with which 
the classical charts of text-books were met with in practice, and it is only since 
the more general use of the microscope in fevers that the great frequency of benign 
tertians, and also the less rarity of quartans than was formerly supposed, has 
been ascertained in India. In some cases of the common double tertians the rise 
of temperature may be higher on the odd than on the even days, due to one infec- 
tion being more numerous than the other. This may sometimes be of diagnostic 
value, but as a rule the fever does not last long enough under treatment to allow 
of its being seen. 

Benign tertians very rarely show a remittent temperature curve, the normal 
line being almost always reached between the paroxysms. Chart 47 is of interest 
as showing the most remittent case I have met with in a benign tertian infection. 
One fatal case occurred among the 99 in this series. Occasionally a paroxysm 
may show an irregular prolonged temperature curve lasting over twenty-four 
hours, usually in severe infections with very numerous parasites. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVE IN QUARTANS 



Quartan fevers are much rarer than the other forms in all parts of India where the 
question has yet been investigated, except in North-Eastem Bengal, although they 
were found by the Malarial Commission to be fairly common in the intensely malarious 
sub-Himalayan Duars, and I myself have seen them frequently in children in a very 
malarious part of the Nowgong district of Assam. Among my European series I 
only met with 5 cases out of 200 malarial fevers in two years, and in only one of 
these was the classical text-book chart obtained, the patient having been admitted 
for phthisis and only examined for malaria on account of his showing fever 
every third day as in Chart 48. The other cases were all double infections, or 



UJarcflhs 




/ 




% 1 




7 


1 k J 




F 


Ch 


ART 

l« 1 


48 


(C 


ass 


1,0 

f 


92) 


^r 


^ 





m'l', 


/ 


i, 


/ 


3 


/ 


h-i 


r42" 


106' • 
ros" - 

1 lOZ- 
^ 1U2° 


4= 


?f': 


3= 


=F- 




^r. 


i;3rJ rt: 


""r- 


: 


r- 


^; 






EjE 


"T' 


:-" 




l~ 


~ri;'.n 


i "T" 


-'-; 


~i 


"-- 


■-j- 


."i" 


-T. 


i-4r 


ia 


'JX~ 


hp. 


-T- 


~i;u 


r 


■^Ejlr 


:~'L 




I 


^^ 




r 


■ V~ 


i . 


. I 


'^. 


f;; 




^. -J~ 




"i- 


;—:.; 




-i- 


.2- 


[~ 


—'■ 


: 


•A~. 


-I - 


~":r 


"J: 


:rr.:.. 




^—^ 


, T 


- 


- 


^'1^ 


"£; 


4: 


^.4.... 


"r"" 


1 


E?^ 


■1 :. 






; 


i 


-::£ 


-4- 


t-z 


\-^~ 


: 


A" 


-t " 


jy^ 


-40 




"^ 


EjE 


3" 


i-— 


-4-- 


..^...^...-i... 








.;.;.:: 


::;.■::: 










-^ -' ■::::/ 


- 




::E 




■^ 


-> 


■ > 






"■-: 






1 


;rl-: 




'^~ 


--"- 


Up 


irrr 


_ 




■-r 


A 




■:.U 


J-. 


m 






:::E:. 




t 






' 


i 


1 
: ^5 


1 101° 
"^ 100°. 

99° • 
Vmndl 
98° ■ 

97° - 


m. 




■:tz 


=r-: 


'■S-'z 


-1- 


#1 






— !— 


-;•-. . 


1 




-rt^ 


:;-"■" 




-^ 


1 


1 


_ 


— 








_I- 




-38° 1 


-X.\. 






'"*i 


:;i-;:: 




^4i;f; 






i.r. 


/ 


Vi\ 


:-t': 


p 




/ t 


->fii 


n 


$ 


V 


VI 


r 


y 


: 4 


iLfr; 


--1I ^ 


/t^ 


f\ 


/ 1 / 


A 






f 








1 r 


1 


-\i 


-37^- 


._i.... 




J-M^ 




S- ' '' 1 / 


V 


P^ 


+ 


— IJfW 


ft;- 


r 


\': 


i 


I^V 


Wli 




- M 






^H 






*i 


_!- 


%M 


V 


m 


^, y 


% 


: !;;. 










-.- 




-if 






i^ 


tf-i 


Ty] 


Dica 


1 si 


ngl< 


3 quart 


an 


T 

ma 


ari 


4 

a, J 


del( 


iin^ 


r at 


Eji 
or 


ce 


'■"■'■"■ 

to 


50 


gr«i 


ns of£( 


juir 


line 


da 


t 

iiy- 


■ i 




r66» 



MALARIAL FEVERS— QUARTANS 



217 



c^z- 



r4l° 



E-40' 
1-59° f 



possibly some of them triple ones in which the fever was cut short after two 
paroxysms by quinine. Chart 49 shows the usual double type met with, but which 
would not have sufficed to allow of a correct diagnosis being arrived at without 
the microscopical examination showing the quartan parasites. A. Oombie's 
statement that he had only seen two quartan fevers in his many years' service 
in Bengal was doubtless based on 
clinical evidence, but he overlooked 
the most common double type of 
infection. Dr. Upendranath Brama- 
cheri recorded 5 quartan cases at the 
Medical College Hospital, while Megaw's 
series include 37 quartans, only 7 of 
which had probably been infected in 
Calcutta itself, and the rest in Lower 
Bengal districts. Out of 25 charts, 13 
showed typical single quartan ague, this 
form being much more common in 
native than in European patients. 
The probable explanation of this is that 
Europeans come earlier under obser- 
vation with double or triple infections, 
but that in the chronic cases seen in 
natives one or more of the infections 

have died out, leaving a single one. The duration of the paroxysms is also 
only a few hours in the quartans, just as in the benign tertian form, but the pjrrexia 
less frequently reaches an extreme height in quartans, these being the mildest 
of the three types, but on the other hand they show the greatest tendency to relapse 
in spite of the paroxysms being very rapidly cut short by quinine treatment. 
This clinical fact indeed often leads to too early cessation of the drug and consequent 
recurrences. 



VarcfDis 




Chakt 49 (Case 

t a. 1 3 


491). 




f 


106° 

105° 

.|10*« 

1 108° 

"f 102" 

1 ioi° • 
«lioo°. 

99° ■ 

yrma 

98' - 
97° - 


.■-;~ 


■:r.: 


^^ 




- 


:;E 








8J- 


■■•":;;: 


^^ 




+- 


!■■■ 


: 


:-.l:::: 




1^: 




fJU- 




...i.— 


_t— — : : 


::±: 


.;::1-: 




Q* 








, 




;:;■ ".' 


^!: 




-i 


^^ 




:...\.l 


-1 - ! 


--i--'- 


::r-; 


■.:t:' 
•■i- 




■ * 


1 




—I— 


■*~ "t 


_-i.... 


...i- • 




_ i... 
-f- 


, ^ , 


:.:■.:.: 


:;:.;■.. 


-■■j-- 


tt 


' 


\ 


. 1 


:|i 




rr 


:ri.- 


■^m 


s 


4 




■— i - 


'— ; 


'r:;;:; 


■s.j.:'- 


ib- 




::.;..: 


\. 


..:t; 


i-rtJ 


l;:;.. 


"f 1 


■^ 


- 






^^^ 


^^ 






i^ 




r 






t 


: ^V 


:$:; 


.-.p. 


•i 




::.T..-: 




■ - 


~i 


: •"- 


rF- 




<■ 


~ 


P->-. 






[ - 



-S8^ 



-37" 



•so- 



Double quartan malaria, yielding in two days to 
60 grains of quinine daily. 



DURATION OF FEVER AFTER TAKING QUININE 

Reference has already been made to the rapidity with which malarial fevers 
are often cut short by quinine, but the very important question as to the limits 
of their duration under proper treatment remains to be considered. In the Euro- 
pean series quinine was given in doses varying from 20 to 60 grains in the twenty- 
four hours, the larger quantity being most commonly employed, and next most 
frequently 30 grains. The dose was nearly always 10 grains, which was adminis- 
tered from 2 to 6 times in the day. The duration of the fever in hospital under 
these different quantities of quinine has been worked out for both the maUgnant 
and benign tertian cases with instructive results. In the first place there was 
no appreciable difference in the duration of either type of fever whether 20, 30 
or 60 grains of the drug were administered daily, so that the largest dose named 
is clearly unnecessarily great ; it gives rise to a good deal of deafness and 



218 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

TABLE XXII.— DURATION OF FEVER AFTER TAKING QUININE. 







Malignant Tertians. 
Amount of Quinine Daily. 


Benign Tertians. 
Amount of Quinine Daily. 






60 
Grains. 


30-40 20 or 
Grains. less. 


1 
60 30-40 
Grains. Grains. 


20 or 

less. 


Total. 


Per- 
centage. 


No fever . 
One day . 
Two days 
Three „ 
Four „ 
Five „ 
Six 





15 
10 
10 

6 

2 , 


4 3 
11 2 
9 4 
8 6 
1 1 
3 1 
— 1 


4 4 
14 14 
13 9 

5 4 

2 2 

] 


3 

8 
2 
2 
1 


18 
64 
47 
35 
13 
4 
3 


9-7 

34-9 

25-6 

191 

70 

21 

1-6 


Average total 

cases ... 43 


36 18 


38 33 


16 






Average duration 2-35 


1-7 2-4 


1-6 1-67 i 1-44 






Average duration 

tot^ cases . , 2-1 


1-57 







Note. — Most of the patients treated with 20 grains or less were children. 

buzzing in the ears, although apparently less so in truly malarial than in other 
fevers. On the whole, I think 30 grains daily is the right quantity for adult 
males, whUe 20 may perhaps be enough in women, who ordinarily weigh consider- 
ably less than men, and are more sensitive to the unpleasant effects of the medicine. 
Table XXII shows the number of days the fever lasted under varying doses 
of quinine. The average duration of the whole of the mahgnant tertian 
cases was only 2*1 days, and of the benign tertians it was only ToT days ; a 
remarkable testimony to the specific action of quinine against malaria. Of still 
more practical importance is the fact that no case of benign tertian fever lasted 
more than four days under this treatment, while no mahgnant tertian persisted 
more than six days {see Chart 40, p. 210). Moreover, only 8 per cent, of the malignant 
tertians lasted more than four days, and in none of these did the fever remain 
of the remittent type without falling to normal for over four days. These striking 
facts clearly establish that the malarial fevers of Lower Bengal, and presumably 
of other parts of India, are not more persistent under adequate quinine treatment 
than are those of Europe and America, where similar evidence has long since been 
forthcoming. 

It may, therefore, be laid down as an axiom that any fever which lasts longer 
than the time limits stated under proper doses of quinine is not malarial, or at 
least not purely malarial in nature. It is, however, essential to know that the 
drug is really being taken in adequate doses and in an assimilable form. Thus, 
after I had come to the conclusion just stated it was brought to my notice that 
in several cases showing malarial parasites in their blood the fever had persisted 



MALARIAL FEVERS— THE PARASITES 219 

in a native hospital for over the periods laid down, and that, too, in spite of 30 
grains of quinine being ordered to be given daily in acid solution. On my suggestion 
the quinine solution supplied from the dispensary was analysed and found to 
contain only 4 grains to the ounce instead of 10. In India, where so much has 
to be left to very poorly paid subordinates, the temptation to make away with 
such a readily saleable drug is very great, and requires special watchfulness. 

THE PARASITES OF MALARIA 

Although a considerable proportion of malarial fevers can be correctly diag- 
nosed from the temperature curves, still, even in such cases it is very important, 
whenever it is possible to do so, to verify the conclusion arrived at by means of 
a microscopical examination of the blood for the parasites. The absolute certainty 
thus reached will enable the prolonged course of quinine treatment which is so 
essential for the permanent cure of the disease to be more confidently insisted 
on. Cases in which any doubt remains clinically as to the presence of malaria 
most urgently demand such a microscopical test to either confirm or exclude the 
suspicion of the disease, for nothing has been so detrimental to the progress of 
our knowledge of fevers in India as the blind treatment of almost every pyrexial 
condition without an obvious cause as malaria for days, and even weeks, until 
signs of liver abscess or some other evident cause obtrudes itself. The impossi- 
bility of examining the blood in every fever patient under the ordinary conditions 
of work under high pressure in India has too often led to this valuable method 
being almost entirely neglected, but if the majority of the cases can be diagnosed 
clinically by the methods described in this work, then it will nearly always become 
possible to use the microscope regularly in the remaining doubtful cases. As, 
however, the parasites of malaria rapidly decrease or disappear from the peripheral 
blood within a day or two of the exhibition of quinine, it is essential to make a 
blood slide immediately the patient comes under observation before the drug is 
given, in case it may be necessary to examine it for the organism a few days later 
if the nature of the case is not by that time clinically evident. 

A blood film prepared and stained as described on p. 15 should first be 
briefly examined with an ordinary high-power lens (about \ in.). By looking 
along the edge an approximate idea will be obtained as to whether the leucocytes 
are about normal in number or are markedly increased or decreased. Any 
marked excess of large mononuclears will also be detected, and may strengthen 
a suspicion of the case being malarial. Further, after some experience, the larger 
forms of the benign tertian and quartan parasites, as well as crescents, may be 
recognized scattered near the edge of the film, where they are always found in 
the largest numbers. It will be remembered that Laveran discovered and des- 
cribed these organisms without the aid of an oil immersion lens. If any parasites 
are found in this way they should be confirmed by examination with ('.j in. 
immersion lens, or if not seen with the lower magnification, a careful search 
with such a power must be made for the smaller forms of the benign parasites and 



220 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



for malignant tertian rings. These will be found in all parts of the film, but are 
sometimes most readily seen, when few in number, at the distal tagged end of 
the preparation. The parasites, when well stained, are so characteristic that it is 
a safe rule to regard anything about which the least doubt remains in the mind 
as being certainly not a malarial organism. The supposed finding of parasites in 
a non-malarial case may give rise to serious error, as in one instance within my 
knowledge, in which a patient with liver abscess was sent on a sea voyage in mistake 
for malaria. 

It is usually unnecessary to spend much time over the search, for as a general 
rule the organisms are present in sufficient numbers to allow of their being de- 
tected within a few minutes' examination after a little experience. Table XXIII 
shows the number of parasites found by me in 200 consecutive cases classed as 
foUows. " Very numerous " means that the parasites were found immediately, 
being present in nearly every field of the microscope. " Numerous " indicates 
that they were detected after a very short search, such as one minute or less, 
" Rather few " when some search up to five minutes was necessary, and " Very 
few " when only occasional parasites were seen after a search of from five to ten 
minutes, so that without considerable care they might have been overlooked. 



TABLE XXIII.— NUMBER OF MALARIAL PARASITES FOUND. 



Malignant Tertians. Benign Tertians 



Very numerous 20 

Numerous 54 

Rather few 9 

Very few 13 

Crescents only 3 



(1) 
(7) 
(4) 
(9) 
(1) 



35 
46 
12 

7 



(4) 
(3) 
(0) 
(2) 



Total. 



56 

100 

21 

20 

3 



(5)) 78 per 
(10) f cent. 

(4) 
(11) 109 

(1) 



We see from this table that in 78 per cent, the parasites were sufficiently 
numerous to allow of their detection within a minute or two, while in only 10 per 
cent, were they so few as to necessitate over five minutes' search. The figures in 
the brackets indicate the number of cases in which quinine was known to have 
been taken before the blood was examined, while this was also doubtless the case 
with some others in which the point had not been noted. They show that although 
the parasites may be found in large numbers after some quinine has been taken, 
yet as a rule they are few in number after its administration, no less than II out 
of the 20 cases with " very few " parasites had been noted to have previously 
taken the drug. If these cases are excluded, then the parasites were " very few " 
in only 5 per cent, of the remainder. On the other hand, cases which are undoubt- 
edly malarial clinically are met with in which no parasites are found at a single 
examination of the blood. It is difficult to accurately estimate their proportion, 
but a careful study of my two years' records has led me to the conclusion that 
they constitute between 10 and 20 per cent, of the total number of malarial fevers 
seen, the majority of the patients having taken quinine before admission, but 



MALARIAL FEVERS— VARIETIES OF THE PARASITES 221 

most of them can be readily recognized by clinical methods, and especially by 
the temperature curves of four-hour charts. The absence of the parasites, then, 
should not be taken as evidence of the case not being malarial if it presents the 
typical characters of that disease, especially if quinine has been taken before the 
microscopical examination. 



CHARACTERS OF THE DIFFERENT VARIETIES OF MALARIAL PARASITES 

1. QUARTAN. — The coloured plate in the frontispiece illustrates the different 
forms of protozoal parasites found in Indian fevers. They have been drawn from 
original specimens, all stained by Leishman's modification of Romanosky's stain. 
The third and fourth lines show the different stages of the quEirtan malarial parasite. 
Beginning with the earliest ring stage (No. 1 of line 3) note that it is free from pig- 
ment and in general resembles the same stage of the tertian forms. The chroma- 
tin body (stained red), however, is usually larger and more centrally situated 
than in the other forms. As the parasite grows it tends to spread out across the 
corpuscles and soon develops coarse dark sepia-brown pigment granules, which 
are much more conspicuous than those of the tertian forms. The chromatin 
body now appears as a thick oblong patch, and the whole organism very often 
forms a broad bar right across the red corpuscle, as in Figs. 5 to 7 of hne 3, which 
represent the stages seen on the second day of their development. On the third 
day they still further increase in size until they nearly completely fill the corpuscle, 
little or none of it remaining unstained. Then the chromatin body divides up 
as in No. 3 of line 4, the pigment collects in the centre and the parasite divides into 
six to eight spores as in Figs. 5 and 6 of line 4. Instead of forming spores, some of 
the parasites become larger still and constitute the gametes (corresponding with 
the crescent bodies of malignant tertians), which develop into the sexual stage in 
the mosquito's stomach. Fig. 4 of line 4 shows one of these forms. The sporu- 
lation takes place in a single infection on the third day at the time of the rise of 
temperature, which is apparently due to toxins set free with the breaking up of 
the parasite. The pigment escapes into the blood, and is taken up by the leuco- 
cjrtes, and especially by the large mononuclears. These pigmented leucocytes 
are diagnostic of malarial fever, and may rarely be found when the parasites have 
disappeared, but it requires some experience to recognize them with certainty. 
The red corpuscles in which quartan parasites are developing do not undergo any 
marked changes, being neither enlarged nor containing red staining dots, known by 
the name of Schuffner's dots, as in benign tertians. 

2. BENIGN TERTIANS.— The first two lines of the plate illustrate the different 
stages of the benign tertian parasites, which in turn present characteristic and easily 
recognized features. The earliest stage is again a small ring form, as in Figs. 1 to 6 
of line 1, the chromatin dot being also usually situated within the organism, while 
some of the rings may occupy one-third the diameter of the corpuscle, being larger 
than those of the malignant tertian. As they increase in size they have an irregular 



222 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

amoeboid appearance with very fine pigment, which is not very clearly seen if the 
staining is dark. The chromatin body is now larger and more or less centrally 
situated. When they reach the full size on the second day they occupy about 
two-thirds of the diameter of the red corpuscle, as in Fig. 3 line 2 ; the corpuscle, 
unlike those containing quartan parasites, becomes enlarged and paler than normal. 
At the end of the second day, at the time of the febrile paroxysm, they divide 
up into 1 2 to 15 spores, and then present the appearance seen in Fig. 5 of line 2, 
while Fig. 6 shows one in which the parasite has just broken up into separate 
spores, setting free the pigment from between them, a rare and beautiful micro- 
scopical appearance. Another most important feature of the benign tertian para- 
site is the fine red stipling, known as Schuffner's dots, affecting the substance of 
the red corpuscle outside the parasite itseK, which is shown in most of the illus- 
trations of this form. It is well brought out by Romanosky stain, although it 
may be absent in the youngest ring forms. It is quite conclusive in the diag- 
nosis between the benign tertian and the quartan, which otherwise may closely 
resemble it in some of its stages. 

As the majority of benign tertian fevers are produced by a double infection, 
at any rate in the early cases seen among European patients, all the stages of the 
parasite are generally found in a single blood specimen, while with a good stain 
the Schuffner's dots are readily seen in some of the first day forms ; so that there is 
usually no difficulty in differentiating this parasite from the small rings of the 
malignant tertian variety which have no Schuffner's dots, and in which the larger 
forms are rarely seen in the peripheral blood. The large gamete form of the 
benign tertian is shown in Fig. 4 of line 3, and corresponds with the crescents of 
the malignant form. 

MALIGNANT TERTIAN. — Lines 5-7 of the plate illustrate the malignant 
tertian variety. The earliest stage is again a small ring, but it differs from those 
of the benign forms by being nearly uniformly of a very small size, about one- 
sixth to one-quarter of the diameter of a red corpuscle. The chromatin material 
occurs in the form of one or two small dots, which are situated at the edge of the 
ring and tend to project slightly outside its edge in a manner not seen in the benign 
forms of malaria as A. Powell has pointed out. Not infrequently two or more rings 
may be found in a single corpuscle, whUe Fig. 6 of line 5 shows no less than 5 
parasites in one red cell in an extraordinarily numerous and rapidly fatal infection 
with more parasites than corpuscles. As a general rule only these smaU ring forms 
are seen in the peripheral blood, so that when a number of such rings, without 
any larger forms, are met with, the infection is practically always a malignant ter- 
tian, this being, indeed, the most distinguishing feature of the blood in this form of 
malaria. The reason of this distribution of the parasites is that there is a marked 
tendency for the red corpuscles infected by them to become shrunken and irregu- 
lar and to present a crenated appearance, such as that illustrated in line 5 of 
the plate. This in turn causes these infected corpuscles to act as foreign bodies 
and become sifted out in the spleen, bone marrow and liver, so that by the time 



HuniEin 
Blood. 




Plate 9. — Diagram of the intravascular and extra-oorporeal stages of the malarial panisite. 



[To face page 222. 




Plate 10. — Adult and larval forms of — 



Culex. 



Anopheles. 



[To face page 223. 



MALARIAL FEVERS— MOSQUITO CYCLE 223 

the larger second day forms are reached they have accumulated in these organs, 
where they may be found in very large numbers in fatal cases. When the num- 
ber of parasites is exceptionally large, then some of these later stages will be found 
in the peripheral blood as well, those shown in line 6 of the plate having been 
drawn from the very intense infection just mentioned. Figs. 2 and 3 of line 6 show 
the fuU size to which this form of parasite attains, namely, to about half the 
diameter of a red corpuscle only. The pigment is fine as in the benign tertian, 
but usually more scanty than in that form. Before sporulation it collects in the 
centre of the parasite, as in Fig. 5 of line 6, which then divides up into about a 
dozen spores, as in Figs. 5 and 6 of the same line. 

Instead of dividing up into spores the parasite may continue to enlarge and 
then elongate out, as in Figs. 7 and 8 of line 6, and thus develop into the crescent- 
shaped gametes of line 7. As they elongate they stretch out the red corpuscle 
until its remains appear as a bluish or reddish line across the concavity of the cres- 
cent, as in Fig. 4 of line 7, and eventually this disappears, probably by rupturing, 
and the free crescent of Figs. 6 and 7, line 7, are formed. The distribution of 
the pigment in these gametes varies with their sex, being concentrated in the 
centre, often in a ring shaped form, in the female gamete, as in Fig. 4, line 7, 
which after extruding two polar bodies, becomes fertilized in the mosquito's 
stomach by the flagella, or, more correctly speaking microgametes, set free from 
the male gamete. The latter is distinguished by having its pigment more 
uniformly distributed through the crescent as in Figs. 2 and 6 of line 7. In recent 
infections these crescent bodies are not seen, but about a week or ten days 
later in insufiiciently treated cases they may develop, and they form the most 
characteristic and easUy recognized form of maUgnant tertians. In my European 
series, however, they were only found in 10 per cent, of the cases, and in only 
three of these were the ring forms not seen, so that it is but occasionally that 
they materially assist the diagnosis. 

In addition to the shrunken, irregular appearance or crenation of the infected 
red corpuscles infected by malignant tertians, they may show in fresh unstained 
specimens a darker colour than normal, which has caused them to be termed 
" brassy " corpuscles. This is in marked contrast to the enlarged pale corpuscles of 
benign tertian infection, and the unaltered condition of quartan ones ; the red cor- 
puscles containing malignant tertian parasites may aU stain a different tint from the 
uninfected ones. Further, in very weU stained specimens a scanty coarse red stip- 
ling, known as Marshall's dots, may be seen, as shown in Figs. 1 to 5 of Kne 6. This 
has to be carefully distinguished from the copious fine stipling of benign tertians. 

THE MOSQUITO CYCLE OF MALARIAL PARASITES.— The stage of the 
life history of the malarial parasites which takes place outside the human body 
is of more epidemiological than clinical interest, but may be briefly mentioned 
for the sake of completeness. It is shown diagrammatically in Plate 9, 
After the fertilization of the female gamete in the stomach of a mosquito 
the zygote thus formed elongates out into a vermicule, or ookinete, and 



224 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

burrows into the wall of the stomach, in the outer layers of which it forms 
an oocyst by the secretion of a sheath around it. The nucleus undergoes mul- 
tiple division to form a number of sporoblasts and a residual body. The spores 
further subdivide to form smaU elongated sporozoites, which eventually escape 
with the rupture of the cyst wall into the body cavity, and find their way to the 
salivary glands, from which they are injected at the time the infected mosquito 
bites, thus they get back to the original host, and enter the red cells to form small 
ring parasites once more. The mosquito cycle usually takes about eight to ten 
days for its completion under favourable temperature conditions, but if the air 
is somewhat colder than the optimum temperature, the development takes longer, 
while below 16° no development takes place. The development only takes place 
in anopheles but not in culex. The difference between the true classes is shown 
in Plate 10. The most important points to note are that iu anopheles the 
proboscis is in a line with the long axis of the body, while in culex it is bent at 
right angles. The former, except when very full of blood, or in some forms 
such as culicifaciens, stands with its back at an angle with the surface, while 
in the case of culex it is parallel to it. 

TYPE OF ANAEMIA IN MALARIA. — ^As a result of repeated attacks of pgue 
much deterioration of the blood rapidly takes place, producing clinically evident 
anaemia. This is of the pernicious type, the reduction in number of the red cor- 
puscles being equal to or greater than that of the haemoglobin, so that the colour 
index, or percentage of haemoglobin in the corpuscles, is normal or slightly in 
excess. This type is, however, also met with in kala-azar, but in that disease, 
except in the very late stages, the degree of anaemia is less marked than in true 
chronic malaria. The occurrence of the pernicious type of anaemia is doubtless 
due to the fact that as the red corpuscles are destroyed wdthin the body, such of 
the haemoglobin as has not been converted into malarial pigment is stored up 
in the Uver and spleen, and so can be utilized in stocking new red corpuscles as 
they are produced by the red marrow, and so the proportion of haemoglobin in 
the corpuscles remains high. For this reason arsenic and red marrow tabloids, 
to increase the output of red corpuscles, are of more value in malarial anaemia than 
iron, and once the destruction of the blood is stopped by killing off the parasites 
with quinine, rapid improvement follows from this line of treatment. For exam- 
ple, in two chronic malarial cases in sailors from Mauritius the red corpuscles 
increased from 1^ and 2^ millions respectively to 4 and 3| millions in one month. 

THE WHITE CORPUSCLES IN MALARIA.— In addition to the occasional 
pigmentation of the white corpuscles already referred to, marked variations from 
the normal occur in both the total numbers and in the proportions of the different 
varieties. Except in rare cases of exceedingly acute infections, the leucocytes are 
diminished in numbers. When an extraordinary number of parasites are present 
there may be an increase in the leucocytes amounting to an actual leucocytosis, 
as in a case recorded byT. H, Delaney, I.M.S., in which 23,000 leucocytes per cubic 



MALARIAL FEVERS— VARIATIONS IN LEUCOCYTES 



225 



millimetre were found. The leucopaenia seen in the great majority of cases varies 
considerably in degree, being most marked in cases of malarial cachexia following 
repeated attacks. In nineteen consecutive cases examined by me in Nowgong, 
including all three varieties of malaria, in 7 the white corpuscles were within 
the normal limits of from 6,000 to 10,000 ; in 10 more they numbered between 
4,000 and 6,000 ; and in the remaining 2 they were 2,625 and 3,520 respectively. 
Thus the degree of leucopaenia is seldom very marked, and does not approach in 
severity to the reduction which is practically always found in uncomplicated kala- 
azar in its tjrpical stages. A further and more characteristic distinction between 
the two diseases is found when the proportion of white to red corpuscles is worked 
out, for in none of the 19 cases of malarial cachexia did the ratio fall to as 
low as 1 white to 1,000 red, in spite of the marked leucopaenia in two of the cases, 
although I have rarely met with slightly greater reduction. On the other hand, 
I have shown in Chapter III that in typical uncomplicated cases of kala-azar the 
ratio is almost always below 1 to 1,500, and frequently much lower than that 
figure. In fact, I look on this great reduction of the white corpuscles relatively 
to the red as practically diagnostic of kala-azar as against true malarial cachexia, 
and have found this point to be of great clinical value. 

THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT IN MALARIA.— An increase 
of the proportions of the large mononuclear leucocytes has been found by a num- 
ber of observers to occur very frequently in malaria. Its incidence has been care- 
fully studied by Stephens and Christophers in their reports to the Royal Society 
from West Africa. They showed that it may be absent or only slight in degree 
during pyrexia, although well marked in the same cases in the intervals from actual 



TABLE XXIV.— LARGE MONONUCLEAR INCREASE IN MALARIA. 





Malignant Tertituia. 


Benign Tertians. 


Total. 




Temperature. 














Percentage. 




—100 


100-102 


+ 102 


—100 


100-102 


+ 102 






0-8 per cent. 


_ 


_ 


4 


_ 


1 


1 


6 


7-7 


8-12 


3 


— 


4 


— 


2 1 


10 


130 


12-15 


6 


5 


3 


5 


5 1 


25 


32-5 


15-20 


2 


3 1 


6 


3 1 


16 


20-7 


Over 20 „ 


1 


5 


3 


6 4 11 

1 


20 


260 



fever, and they regarded over 15 per cent, of large mononuclears as proof of an 
actual or recent malarial infection, and of over 20 per cent, as implying actual 
infection at the time. This statement is probably correct as far as with regard 
to the general run of fever cases in West Africa, but many hundreds of blood 
counts I have made in all kinds of fevers in India show that equally high percentages 
of large mononuclears may be met with in two other fevers besides malaria, namely 
kala-azar and seven-day fever. The frequency of diflferent degrees of the increase 

15 



226 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

in both malignant and benign tertians in relationship to the temperatures worked 
out from counts in every case in my European series for one complete year is shown 
in Table XXIV, which may be compared with similar tables for the other two 
fevers mentioned on pp. 69 and 311. 

There are several points of interest to be noted in these figures. In the first 
place they confirm the general rule of Stephens and Christophers that the increase 
of the large mononuclears is less marked during high fever than when the tem- 
perature is normal, and further show that this change is in proportion to the height 
of the temperature when the blood is taken. Secondly, the increase is distinctly 
more marked and frequent in benign than in malignant tertians, in accordance 
with the much shorter duration of the febrile paroxysm in the former leading to 
the blood film being much more frequently made when the temperature is normal 
than in the case of the malignant tertian, in which the apyretic intervals are so 
very short. This is so definite that whenever I note a very marked increase of 
the large mononuclears in the first rapid survey of a blood film from a case which 
is likely to be malarial with a J-in. lens, I immediately seek for the large benign 
tertian parasites along the edge of the specimen with the same power, and often 
find them within a few seconds. 

When we come to consider this change as a diagnostic measure, however, we 
find that over 15 per cent, of large mononuclear leucocytes were found in only 
two-fifths of the mahgnant tertians and in three-fifths of the benign form, or just 
under one haK of the total cases. In no case was a normal count of not over 8 
per cent, met with during an apyrexial period, but in a large proportion inter- 
mediate numbers between 8 and 15 per cent, were found. 

When we come to compare these figures with those for kala-azar, we find that in 
the European series of the latter disease dealt with on p. 72, 35 per cent, gave counts of 
over 15 per cent, of large mononuclears, although they include a number of early cases. 
Further, among twenty consecutive advanced cases in Assam no less than 62 per 
cent, gave similar coimts. In fact, before the discovery of the parasite of the 
disease I advanced this fact in favour of kala-azar being malarial in origin. Again, 
in the case of seven-day fever no less than 20 per cent, gave these high large mononu- 
clear counts. It is clear from these data that this test is of very Httle value in the 
diagnosis of malaria in tropical countries in which these other fevers commonly 
occur, and although the estimation is more troublesome than searching for malaria 
parasites, it is only in exceptional cases that the increase of the large mononuclears 
has any value, and much caution is required in its use. On the other hand, an 
increase of these leucocytes is of great value in excluding typhoid fever in the 
first two weeks of that disease {see p. 140). 

COMPLICATIONS OF MALARIA 

CEREBRAL MALARIA. — By far the most serious and important comphcation 
of malaria is the condition of coma brought about by blocking up of the capillaries 
of the brain by innumerable parasite-laden red corpuscles. It only occurs in 
very intense infections, as in the case already mentioned from which the later 



MALARIAL FEVERS— MALARIAL COMA 



227 



stages of the malignant tertian parasites of the coloured plate were drawn. The 
importance of always bearing this condition in mind is that these cases are sometimes 
erroneously diagnosed as heat-stroke, cerebral haemorrhage, or even as plague — as 
in one patient whom I rescued from the plague ward while engaged in a research 
on the blood changes in that disease ; again another case seen in consultation had 
been treated as plague until a hopeless comatose stage was reached. Now during this 
complication of malaria (which by the way is almost always of the maUgnant tertian 
form), the parasites are so numerous in the peripheral blood that they are seen in 
every field of the microscope, so they can be found easily within five minutes, in- 
cluding staining the slide. They mostly occur at the height of the malarial season, 
although grave cases may be met with at any time of the year, so that in all cases 
of coma in the tropics, not obviously due to injury or other cerebral disease, the 
examination of the blood for malarial parasites should be at once undertaken . 



Chart 50 (Case 1,098). 



9 [[-42 




-4r 



•4f> 



r39"S 
38° I 



-57= 



-56.° 



Malignant tertian malaria, showing high remittent fever suspected to be 
typhoid. Very numerous parasites found by a routine blood examina- 
tion, the fever yielded rapidly to an intravenous injection of 10 
grains of bi-hydrochlorate of quinine. 

Unfortunately, once coma has become established in an adult patient it is 
generally too late to save the patient's life, although in children better results 
are sometimes obtained. Further, this form of malarial coma may set in very 
suddenly in cases which do not appear clinically to be unusually severe infections, 
although they are readily found to be so by the briefest microscopical examination 
of the blood. For example, a native patient in whose blood numerous malarial 
parasites had been found in every field of the microscope, showed no dangerous 
symptoms up to midnight, yet, in spite of 20 grains of quinine by the 
mouth, he became comatose in the early morning hours and was dead by 8 a.m., 
his brain and other organs being found choked with malarial organisms. Since 
that experience I have always administered quinine intravenously in patients 
showing such very large numbers of parasites in the blood, and the occasional 



228 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

occurrence of such cases is the very strongest argument for even a short examina- 
tion of the blood in every fever case immediately on coming under observation 
in malarious countries. Chart 50 is that of a case in point, the patient having 
been admitted on June 10 with a high remittent fever, which was considered clini- 
cally on the 11th by both Dr. J. G. Murray (under whose care he was) and myself 
to be typhoid. When examining a blood shde taken in a routine manner for my 
investigation on the morning of the 12th, numerous malarial parasites were found 
in every field of the microscope. On visiting the hospital in the afternoon to 
report this, I learnt that his quinine had been omitted the day before on account 
of sickness and the temperature was rapidly rising again, so advised the immediate 
intravenous injection of 10 grains of the bi-hydrochlorate of quinine. As a result 
the temperature finally fell to normal the next morning, although it was just the 
kind of case which might have passed into a fatal coma during the night if no 
more quinine had been given. In three cases of cerebral malaria with coma Megaw 
used intravenous injections of quinine without saving any of them, so that it 
is clear that the only way of being sure of avoiding such preventible deaths is to 
examine the blood of every fever case for parasites during the malarial season. 

This case is also of interest as being the only malarial fever I have seen which 
could very well be mistaken for typhoid clinically, although some authors describe 
a typhoid-like variety of malaria. 

MALARIAL CACHEXIA. — As a result of repeated attacks of malarial fever 
organic changes are produced in the system, which taken together constitute the 
clinical picture known as malarial cachexia. The most essential features of this 
condition are anaemia, some wasting, with enlargement of the spleen and often 
to a less extent of the liver. The degree of anaemia in an Assam series of blood 
counts in children has already been treated of on p. 68. It is commonly a marked 
clinical feature even in patients who have only suffered from malaria for a month 
or two, much more so, indeed, than in a similar stage of kala-azar which has for 
so long been confused with true malarial cachexia. The wasting, on the other 
hand, is much less marked in chronic malarial cases than in the more serious 
kala-azar. 

The enlargement of the spleen is the most characteristic feature of malarial 
cachexia, especially in children, who have been shown to suffer so much from 
malarial infection. Thus in 19 Assam cases the organ reached to 4 in. below the 
ribs in 6, to the level of the navel in 8, and to below that level in 5. Yet these 
children were running about without apparent suffering, and many of them were 
fairly well nourished. Again, in a series of 30 patients in Dinajpur with great 
enlargement of the spleen, I found on spleen puncture malarial parasites in 5, 
those of kala-azar in 10, and neither organisms in the remaining 15. Chnically 
it was impossible at a single examination to distinguish between the chronic 
malarial and the sporadic kala-azar patients, so that it is not surprising that the 
two diseases have been confused for over a hundred years, or that in 1897 I could 
find no difference between the epidemic kala-azar cases and the sporadic ones 



MALARIAL FEVERS— BLACKWATER FEVER 229 

known as malarial cachexia. They may, however, be nearly always microscopically 
differentiated hy the approximately equal reduction of the red and white corpuscles 
in chronic malaria and the disproportionately great reduction of the white cells in 
kala-azar which has been described on pp. 224 and 69. 

The hver may also be considerably enlarged in malarial cachexia, but does 
not so often reach the extreme degree of extension as far as the level of the 
navel, as it does in the late stages of kala-azar. According to Kelsch and Kiener, 
malarial cirrhosis of the liver is not uncommon in Algeria, but their descriptions 
of " malarial cachexia " are very suggestive of kala-azar, which has been identi- 
fied in the Soudan, and also found by Laveran in Tunis in Northern Africa. I 
have, however, met with undoubted malarial cirrhosis of the liver in Calcutta, 
with extensive accumulation of melanin in the greatly thickened Glisson's capsule ; 
but this condition is much rarer in the post mortem room there than the peculiar 
form of cirrhosis due to chronic kala-azar described on p. 66. Much work is 
required before the different forms of cirrhosis of this organ in the tropics will be 
completely cleared up. 

Although it may be impossible to decide at a single clinical examination if 
a given case is one of true malarial cachexia or not, yet a few days' observation 
will now usually allow of a correct opinion being formed. If fever is present a 
four-hourly temperature chart will bring out the characteristic curve of malignant 
tertian or other variety of malaria, as was pointed out by S. P. James, I.M.S., in 
a report on malaria in India. In order to obtain this typical temperature curve 
quinine must be first withheld for a few days, later on giving this drug in 
10-grain doses several times a day ; the fever wiU be controlled and completely 
stopped within three or four days. This wUl not be the case in kala-azar, in 
which low fever almost always foUows a remission of the temperature. Finding 
the malarial parasite during fever will also confirm the diagnosis of that disease, 
although it may be compUcating kala-azar, in which case quinine will fail to stop 
the fever, although it may lessen its height. 

BLACKWATER FEVER. — A, fortunately, much rarer, although frequently 
fatal, complication of malaria is haemoglobinuria, popularly known as blackwater 
fever. This form has been considered by some to be a distinct fever, but recent 
work of Stephens and Christophers and others has gone far towards proving that 
it is only a comphcation of malaria. 

DISTRIBUTION IN THE EAST.— The disease is less common in India and the 
East generally than in the more malarial parts of India, although not rare in certain 
limited areas. Powell has described cases in Assam, Seal in the Duars or Darjeel- 
ing terai, Stephens and Christophers in the Jeypore state of Madras, in India, and 
Reynault in Tonquin, while it has also been reported from the Dutch East Indies : 
always in places where malaria is intense. Stephens has collected a series of 
microscopical examinations of the blood by rehable workers, which showed the 
presence of malarial parasites in 95" 6 per cent, of cases examined the day before 
the haemoglobinuria commenced, in 61*9 per cent, on the day of the attack, but 



230 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

in only 17 per cent, on the day after. In consequence of the infected corpuscles 
being especially vulnerable, and thus rapidly dissolved, the parasites tend to quickly 
disappear during this compHcation ; but Stephens and Christophers were able to 
find other signs of malaria in their cases, such as pigmented leucocytes, or a marked 
increase of the large mononuclear leucocytes : thus the evidence of the existence 
of malarial infection is very strong. 

According to Koch and others, the usual exciting cause of the attack is a 
dose of quinine in a patient who has had repeated attacks of malaria, although 
it may occasionally occur in those who have not taken the drug for some time. 
It may possibly act by suddenly setting free a large amount of toxin from the 
destroyed parasites, which dissolves a number of red corpuscles already weakened 
by prolonged attacks of malaria and residence in a tropical cHmate, for the 
disease is very rare within the first months of arrival in a malarial place. The 
infection is nearly always of the malignant tertian variety. 

The treatment recommended by Dr. Mannanberg in NothnageVs Encyclopedia 
is the following : If no quinine has been taken, or the patient had previously taken 
the drug in previous attacks of uncomplicated malaria without bad effect, and 
if malarial parasites are present in the blood, it should be given during haemo- 
globinuria. If the attack follows within a few hours of a dose of quinine, it should 
only be repeated if malarial parasites are still present. If the drug has previously 
brought on these attacks and parasites are still present in the blood in large num- 
bers, it is still usually advisable to give quinine in a dose of from 15 to 30 grains 
so as to be certain of destroying the parasites, which will otherwise kill the patient. 



THE TREATMENT OF MALARIAL FEVERS 

The curative treatment of malaria may be summed up in one word — quinine. 
There is no other drug to be compared with it for a moment, while in the rare cases 
in which it cannot be successfully given by the mouth it can be got into the system 
in other ways. There is no drug which has a truer specific action than quinine, 
for it destroys the actual cause of the disease. The dosage and methods and 
duration of administration, therefore, are of great practical importance. 

I have already given data to show that 10 grain doses three times a day are 
sufficient to cut short an ordinary attack of malarial fever in one to four days, 
while four to six such doses in the course of the twenty-four hours do not have 
any more rapid effect, although they are advisable if the infection is found by 
the microscope to be a severe one. In children there is a tendency to give too 
small doses of this drug. One grain for each year of age may safely be given two 
or three times a day up to the age of 10, so that over 10 years a full adult dose 
should be given twice a day. Infants may receive 2 or 3 grain doses twice a day. 
It is often well to guard against the depressing effects of the drug by the addition 
of an appropriate dose of liquor strychninae, especially when large doses are 
being given several times a day. Chart 51 illustrates the necessity of considerable 



MALARIAL FEVERS— TREATMENT 



231 



I 



doses of quinine in the malaria of children. The patient was an European girl 
aged 5 years admitted for a severe malignant tertian infection with numerous 
parasites in the blood. Three grains of quinine were given twice a day, and raised 
to three times on the following day. Nevertheless, the temperature remained 
of the remittent type and rose again on the third evening after admission to 105*4° 
F., a very high point for a mahgnant tertian. On increasing the quinine by 4 grains 
every six hours, that is up to 16 grains in the twenty-four hours, the fever rapidly 
yielded. 

Chart 51 (Case 36). 




Malignant tertian malaria in a child of 6, not checked by 6 to 9 grains of j 
quinine daily, but yielding to 16 grains in the twenty-four hours. 

HOUR OF ADMINISTRATION. — It has been shown in the introductory chapter 
that all the older writers insisted that quinine should be given only during an inter- 
mission or at least a remission of a malarial fever. In fact during the forty years 
that Johnson's teaching held the field it was strictly forbidden to give any cinchona 
or quinine until the fever had entirely ceased, and, according to some, not until the 
tongue had cleaned. Edward Hare who, single handed, broke down this system and 
reintroduced the practice of the ship's surgeons of the later part of the eighteenth cen- 
tury, of giving cinchona during the fever, reduced the death rate from fevers twelve- 
fold in one year at the European Hospital, Calcutta, and since his day quinine has 
been given fearlessly during actual pyrexia and utterly irrespective of the period 
of the paroxysm in which the patient comes under observation. Nevertheless, 
the prejudice of the dark age of British medicine in India against giving quinine 
during fever is still frequently met with, chiefly, although not entirely, among 
Indian practitioners. Theoretically the best time is during sporulation of the 
parasites, when the youngest forms will be free in the blood stream, while clini- 
cally there is some ground for giving the drug during a remission or intermission, 
as it is less likely to produce sickness or distress at that time. Practically, quinine 
is efficient when administered at regular intervals, irrespective of the temperature 



232 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



curve, while to wait for an intermission or well marked remission may cause a 
fatal delay in the most severe cases, such as that of Chart 50. As a general rule, 
then, quinine should be given without regard to the temperature and without wait- 
ing for an intermission of the fever, but it may sometimes be advisable to throw 
in a larger dose, such as 15 or 20 grains, during a remission or intermission of 
the pyrexia. 

MODE OF ADMINISTRATION. — Quinine should as a rule be administered 
as an acid solution of the ordinary sulphate, for when given in pill or tabloid form 
it may pass undissolved through the alimentary canal, while in the form of a 
powder there may, during fever, be insufficient acid in the stomach to rapidly dissolve 
the drug. As a prophylactic the acid solution is preferable when a large number 
of persons have to be treated, but for individual use tabloids, especially of the 
soluble bi-hydrochlorate, are very convenient, owing to their portabihty making 
them readily available under all conditions. 

HYPODERMIC INJECTIONS OF QUININE are recommended by some autho- 
rities as a more effective and rapidly acting mode of administration than that 
by the mouth. My own experience does not bear out this commonly accepted 
statement, for in several instances hypodermic injections of quinine have acted 
less rapidly than when it is given by the mouth. Further, it is well known that 
less dizziness and buzzing in the ears are produced by the subcutaneous adminis- 
tration, and experiments have shown that the drug thus given is slowly excreted 
in the urine ; some of it may be even recovered as late as twenty-four hours after 
its injection. These facts point to its being really more slowly absorbed from 
the tissues than from the stomach, and therefore less rapid, although possibly 
more sustained, in its action. Chart 52 is that of a lady suffering from 



Chajrt 52 




L4I0 



-R?" 



r30« 



Severe malignant tertian malaria running a prolonged course under hypodermic injections 

quinine. 



MALARIAL FEVERS— INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS 233 

malignant tertian malaria, who was said to be unable to take quinine by the 
mouth. She was, therefore, treated by injections of 5 grain doses of the bi-hydro- 
chlorate of quinine daily, three injections being given on the first day, as the parasites 
were numerous. The fever lasted for seven days after the commencement of 
the injections, longer than I have ever seen in malaria treated with quinine 
by the mouth, while the pyrexia was of the remittent type for five days. Ten 
grain doses would probably have been more efficient, but even with this dose 
Megaw found the temperature took, on the average, twelve hours longer to fall to 
normal than when the same amount of the drug was given by the mouth. There 
appears, then, to be some doubt if quinine is really more efficient in malaria, hypo- 
dermically, than by the mouth ; thus it is only advisable to use the former more 
troublesome and dangerous method under special circumstances, as when the 
drug is vomited, or the patient cannot stand it by the stomach ; a somewhat rare 
event in the tropics in a genuine case of malarial fever. 

In giving hypodermic injections of quinine, it must always be borne in mind 
that there is a special habHity for tetanus to occur if the most scrupulous cleanli- 
ness is not ensured, for this terrible accident has much more frequently followed 
quinine than morphia or strychnine injections. Experiments at the Pasteur 
Institute in Paris have shown that hypodermic injections of the tetanus organism 
are far more infective when pure cultures of the bacillus are mixed with a harmless 
saphrophyte, such as the micrococcus prodigious, owing to the phagocytes attacking 
the latter and so allowing some grace to the pathogenic organism. Quinine may 
perhaps act in a similar manner, or possibly by paralyzing the phagocytes, 
and thus favouring the tetanus germ if present. Specially stringent antiseptic 
precautions are, therefore, necessary when injecting quinine solutions. 

The salt of quinine used for injection is also of importance. In remote places 
the ordinary sulphate dissolved in one minim of tartaric or dilute hydrochloric 
acid to each grain of quinine may be the only form available, but where there is a 
choice the readily soluble bi-hydrochlorate is preferable, and is less hable to be 
followed by abscess or induration than the soluble bi-sulphate. Some writers 
advise injection into the muscles and others into the subcutaneous tissues, but 
the bi-hydrochlate may be injected safely in the loose areolar tissue just beneath 
the skin, unless it is desired to get as rapid absorption as possible, when the more 
vascular muscle may be the better place. 

INTRAVENOUS INJECTIONS. — In very severe cases of malarial fever, especi- 
ally those of the cerebral type, the Italian physicians have for long used the intrave- 
nous mode of administering quinine in order to get the most rapid specific action 
of the drug on the parasites. I have already given a case illustrating the value 
of this method {see Chart 50) and expressed the opinion that it should always be 
used when unusually severe infection is found by the microscope, and before any 
cerebral symptoms have appeared, for after they are present it is usually too late 
to save the patient even by heroic intravenous doses. The depressing effects of the 
quinine may be counteracted by giving some liquor strychninae with it. Personally, 
whenever it is desired to get the rapid effect of quinine in malaria, I greatly prefer 



234 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

the intravenous to the subcutaneous method, which I now rarely use, and beheve 
to be seldom indicated, as well as much overdone in the present day. 

The soluble bi-hydrochlorate should always be employed for intravenous 
injections, and one of the veins at the bend of the elbow is the most convenient site. 
After carefully cleansing the skin as for a surgical operation (spirit and perchloride 
lotion being the best final antiseptic application) a bandage is appUed fairly tightly 
round the upper arm with a small pad of cotton wool over the large vessels on 
the inner side so as to make the veins prominent. The needle of the carefully 
sterilized syringe is then inserted into the vein with the point in the direction of 
the blood flow, the bandage is loosened, the contents slowly injected and collodion 
or an antiseptic dressing applied to the site for one day. The injection is less 
painful than a hjrpodermic one, and I have never seen any harm follow it. 

RECTAL INJECTIONS OF QUININE.— Should there be objections to the 
administration of quinine both by the mouth and through the injection syringe, 
the difficulty can be got over by passing a solution of the soluble bi-hydrochlorate 
high up the rectum, from which it is readily absorbed, and its therapeutical 
effects obtained. 

DURATION OF QUININE TREATMENT IN MALARIA.— Although a given 
attack of malarial fever can certainly be controlled within a few days, the mistake of 
considering that the disease is thereby permanently cured must be carefully avoided. 
If quinine is at once discontinued, a relapse is very likely to take place, either within 
ten days to a fortnight in mahgnant tertians, or at a later date in any variety. 
For this reason 20 to 30 grains a day of the drug should be continued for 
a week or two after the pyrexia ceases, and 10 grains a day for up to the end of 
one month from the attack. After this it will be sufficient to take the ordinary 
prophylactic doses twice a week for another two months, or until the end of the 
malarial season, if still exposed to infection. Should relapses recur at a later 
date a similar course should be repeated. A subject of malaria should also take 
the drug when going to a cold climate or to the hills, as a chill often brings on 
a relapse of malaria. 

CINCHONA. — The only constituent of the Jesuit's bark besides quinine 
which can be reUed on as a specific against malaria is the cinchona alkaloid, which 
in the form of cinchona febrifuge is prepared by the Government of India in 
large quantities, and sold at a lower price than quinine. It has been much 
used in India on account of its cheapness, but has the disadvantage of causing 
more gastric disturbance than quinine itself, which may prejudice the people against 
it. Recent tests in cases of malaria diagnosed by microscopical examinations by 
Megaw have shown that in slightly larger doses (12 grains of cinchona in the place 
of 10 of quinine) it cuts short the fever as rapidly as the more generally used drug. 
It may, therefore, be of great value in the campaign against malaria among natives 
mentioned on p. 201, when the greater cost of quinine is an obstacle to the extensive 
distribution of the drug. 



MALARIAL FEVERS— DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 235 

ARSENIC is of little value in malaria during the occurrence of pyrexia, but 
it is of great value in the treatment of the pernicious type of anaemia which follows 
repeated attacks of the fever. Methylene blue has been recommended in malaria, 
but is much inferior to quinine. If used at all the patient should be warned before- 
hand of the discolouration of the urine and faeces it produces. A number of Indian 
remedies, such as the Neem leaves, have been lauded in the treatment of malaria, 
but as we possess such a rehable specific as quinine, less potent remedies should 
not be substituted for it. Possibly their reputation may really depend on then- 
value in other fevers which have been confused with malaria, and it is to be hoped 
that the Indian Indigenous Drugs Committee may in time sift out some therapeutic 
grains from the vast mass of these remedies, which are still awaiting investigation. 

THE DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF MALARIAL FEVERS 

It has been shown that both the actual presence of malaria as well as the 
actual type of the fever can readily be detected by the characteristic temperature 
curves which have been described, when they are available. However, the class- 
ical text-book charts are seldom seen in practice owing to the duration of malarial 
fevers only averaging two days under quinine, for this is usually given to every fever 
patient immediately on coming under observation. To withhold the drug until the 
nature of the disease has been verified by the occurrence of the typical chart or 
by microscopical examination is impracticable and unjustifiable under ordinary 
conditions of work in the tropics with the large number of fever cases which come 
daily under treatment. To do so in really malarial places would sooner or later 
lead to preventible deaths taking place. The plan, already mentioned, of always 
making a blood slide immediately on admission, before the first dose of quinine 
is administered, gets over this difficulty, as it can subsequently be examined at 
leisure in every case which is not clearly malarial clinically, yet may possibly be 
of this nature. It is only in this way that all the malarial cases can be separated 
out from other fevers in the tropics. It is obvious that this is of vast importance 
in order that they should be efficiently treated by a prolonged course of quinine. 

Nevertheless it may be of service to repeat here the points of greatest practical 
value in the clinical differentiation of malaria from those fevers with which it is 
most often confused. 

1. FROM FEVERS OF LONG DURATION SUCH AS KALA-AZAR, TYPHOID 
AND MALTA FEVER. — Now that the bugbear of fevers in the East has been re- 
moved by the separation of kala-azar from true malarial cachexia, and it is clear that 
there is no such thing as a malarial fever which resists adequate doses of quinine 
for many days or weeks, the differentiation of malaria from typhoid, Malta fever 
and kala-azar in their active phases is quite simple, for a few days' record of the 
temperature curve while quinine is being administered will allow of malaria being 
excluded. Moreover, the high continued type, described on page 118 as being 
so characteristic and frequent in typhoid, does not occur in malaria, while the 
double remittent type of the early stages of kala-azar is equally rare, if indeed it 



236 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

occurs at all, in malarial fevers. The charts of Malta fever are less characteristic 
and the duration and undulating character of the pyrexia will here be the best guide. 

2. FROM FEVERS OF SHORT DURATION SUCH AS SEVEN DAY FEVER, 
INFLUENZA, DENGUE, ETC.— When we turn to the clinical differentiation 
of malaria from other fevers of short dm*ation the problem is more difficult. In 
large tropical seaports, such as Calcutta, the fever which is most frequently- 
confused with malaria is the seven day fever described on page 300. When 
the patient is admitted in an early stage of the disease the saddle-back temperature 
curve and the ineffectiveness of quinine will soon exclude malaria, especially when 
the pjrrexia is of a fairly continued type such as Chart 70 on p. 306, which is 
never seen in malaria. The frequent cases, however, which are admitted during 
the terminal rise of temperature {see Chart 75, p. 309) and faU in a day or two 
while taking quinine, may readily be mistaken for a single paroxysm of mahgnant 
tertian malaria. This mistake may be avoided in the great majority of cases 
by noting the pulse rate when the temperature is up to 103° or more, for I have 
scarcely ever seen it over 100 a minute in this terminal stage of the seven day fever 
with such a degree of p3a'exia, while it is nearly always over 100 a minute in a 
malarial case under such conditions. The greater severity of the pains in the 
back and hmbs and of the frontal headache as well as the red raw edge to the tongue 
also point to seven day fever rather than malaria. 

INFLUENZA may sometimes present difficulties, but as a rule the presence 
of sore throat, coryza and physical signs of bronchitis, etc., in the lungs will indi- 
cate the true nature of the disease, for they are very rarely met with in malaria. 
Further, influenza in India occurs usually in the early months of the year in the 
cold season, during the minimum prevalence of malaria. The three day fever de- 
scribed by McCarrison in Chitral, which occurs in the hot weather in the United 
Provinces and Punjab, as described on page 318, has also been frequently 
mistaken for malaria, but it shows a different temperature curve. Dengue 
usually occurs in the tropics at long intervals in an epidemic form of such wide 
and rapid distribution and with such a marked rash that it is readily recognized. 
Should it occur at any time in a sporadic form the remittent or intermittent tem- 
perature curve might well lead to its being mistaken for malaria, but the intense 
break-bone pains and absence of malarial parasites should lead to its recognition. 

The cerebral type of malaria may be mistaken for a variety of conditions 
which have already been mentioned on p. 226. Only a microscopical examination 
of the blood wiU enable these to be differentiated. 

THE PROPHYLAXIS OF MALARIA 

In no disease is it more true that prevention is better than cure, than in the 
case of malaria, for although it is easy to cut short an attack, yet it is often exceed- 
ingly difficult to completely eradicate the infection from the system. A fuU dis- 



MALARIAL FEVERS— PROPHYLAXIS 237 

cussion of this phase of the malarial question is beyond the scope of the present 
work, while it has been so admirably dealt with in Stephens and Christopher's work 
on The Practical Study of Malaria, and in the writings of Professor Ronald 
Ross that it would be quite superfluous for me to attempt it. As, however, 
there has been much controversy regarding the most practical prophylactic 
measures in different countries it may be well to briefly record the conclusions 
I have formed on this vexed question as far as India is concerned. 

There are three different ways in which the infection of malaria may be pre- 
vented in any community. Firstly, by destroying all or nearly all the anopheles 
which can convey the infection from man to man, or preventing infection through 
them by the use of mosquito curtains ; secondly, administering quinine with 
sufficient frequency to prevent the development in the human system of any 
infection which may be introduced; and thirdly, to destroy all infection in the 
whole population by prolonged and universal drugging with quinine as suggested 
by Koch. As the last method would entail the forcible administration of quinine 
to hundreds of millions of people it is clearly impracticable in India and need not 
be further considered. 

THE DESTRUCTION OF ANOPHELES.— Major Ross's first description of 
anopheles as breeding almost entirely in a few small pools, and thus easily destroyed, 
naturally leads to the prevention of the breeding of these dangerous pests as 
being the most promising line of prophylaxis against malaria. This anticipation 
has been signally fulfilled in certain favourable places with limited breeding 
grounds and low rainfall, which can be permanently dealt with by drainage 
or filling up operations, such as at Ismaiia in Egypt, and at Port Swettenham in 
the Malay Peninsula. A year's careful study of the breeding grounds in the suburbs 
of Calcutta showed that both the tanks, and still more the unlined roadside drains, 
aggregating many scores of miles in length, also breed abundant anopheles, the latter 
in particular containing varieties which readily carry the infection in nature. Now 
it is quite impossible for the municipalities to find funds for either lining and levelling 
these drains, so as to prevent water standing in them, or to keep them continuously 
kerosened to destroy the larvae, the attempts to do so having had to be abandoned 
in urban areas of Lower Bengal, while they are still more impossible in rural areas 
which contain the vast majority of the teeming population of this part of India. 
At the Nagpur Malarial Convention held in 1902 this question was earnestly dis- 
cussed with the aid of the Royal Society Commissioners, and they unanimously 
recommended the Government of India to carry out test experiments of mosquito 
destruction and other prophylactic measures in every province of India under 
skilled supervision. Later in the same year an experiment on these lines was 
commenced under the supervision of the Commission in the very malarious 
cantonment of Mian Mir, and carried on over two seasons. The results were very 
disappointing as far as the destruction of anopheles was concerned, but this 
experiment has been criticised on the ground that only part of the cantonment 
was dealt with, this being too small an area to be protective. Captain S. P. 



238 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

James, who superintended the latter part of these operations, was then deputed 
to report on the practicabihty of mosquito destruction as a prophylactic measure 
against malaria in a number of important cantonments in the Punjab and United 
Provinces, but in none of them did he consider such measures to have any reasonable 
chance of success. That, with unHmited men and money, anopheles could be 
destroyed in an Indian cantonment no one doubts, but in such a poor country 
as India ways and means have to be most carefuUy considered, and close investiga- 
tion and experiment has convinced the medical authorities of the country that 
mosquito destruction is not the most practicable measm-e in the great majority of 
Indian towns. 

MOSQUITO PROTECTION. — This takes the form of either rendering houses 
mosquito proof by means of fine wire netting, as successfully carried out in 
Italian railways, or sleeping under mosquito proof nets, as advised by Annesley 
in 1828 as a preventive of malaria, and for long used in India and other tropical 
climates to avoid the disturbance and annoyance caused by these ubiquitous 
pests. G. M. Giles has advocated mosquito proof houses in India, and states that 
the fine meshed wire necessary does not lessen the amount of breeze entering the 
houses, although it is very difficult to understand how it can help doing so in the 
stifling hot weather experienced in many parts of India, when the slightest zephyr 
is eagerly welcomed. It is only in intensely malarial places that this extreme 
measure is hkely to be adopted, but it would be worth giving a trial to in such 
deadly areas as the Duars and some parts of Assam. 

The MOSQUITO CURTAIN is a measure which should never be neglected by 
Europeans in malarial parts of the tropics, as it furnishes the simplest method 
of protection from infection, and, if attention is paid to the nets being in good 
repair and carefully tucked in under the mattress, they are very efficient during 
the dangerous night period, when anopheles are most active. Either boots or two 
pairs of socks are a useful protection against bites on the ankles in the evening, 
while gloves and leggings have been advised in intensely malarial places, but 
they are not necessary in most parts of India. 

QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC— Under ordinary conditions of fife in the 
tropics, retirement into mosquito proof houses from sunset to sunrise, which has 
proved to be a perfect protection against infection in the intensely malarious 
Roman Campania, is not a feasible measure, so that the use of mosquito nets at 
night may not prove a perfect protection even if through unceasing watchfulness 
they are always efficiently used. Moreover, during shooting or travelling at night 
these measures are not always practicable. Thus, under many circumstances the 
additional protection afforded by the regular use of quinine, to destroy any malarial 
parasites which may gain access to the system before they have multiphed sufficiently 
to produce an attack of ague, is an invaluable prophylactic measure of more general 
appHcability than any other. For example, before the discovery of the role of 



MALARIAL FEVERS— BIBLIOGRAPHY 239 

the mosquito in carrying malaria I lived tkroughout a very unhealthy year in the 
most malarial district of Assam, where for many months about 80 per cent, of 
the apparently healthy native children show malarial parasites in their peripheral 
blood, yet I never used a mosquito net, but was perfectly protected from malaria 
by 10 grain doses of quinine taken several times a week. With our present know- 
ledge, however, under such circumstances I should both take quinine and sleep 
under a mosquito net. The DOSE of quinine as a prophylactic should be from 
10 to 15 grains in an adult and at least 5 grains in a child of over 5 years of age. 
Repeated controlled experiments in Indian troops and jails have demonstrated 
that less than these doses are inefficient in preventing malaria. The drug should 
be given twice a week, either on two successive days, as Koch advises, or every 
third and fourth day alternately, which seems to be equally effective. It should 
be given in acid solution, and never in pill form, while the results improve enormously 
when the issue is made in the presence of a responsible commissioned medical 
officer, failures having frequently been traced to a lack of such control. As the 
height of the malarial season in India seldom lasts more than three or four months 
a very marked reduction in the prevalence of malaria among Europeans may be 
effected by the prophylactic issue of quinine during this short time, while the measure 
is infinitely cheaper and more readily carried iato effect than mosquito destruction 
under the conditions generally met with in India. When traveUing in a malarial 
part all native servants and camp followers should be similarly dosed. When 
the recently introduced plan of distributing quinine to infected children through 
the village schoolmasters becomes thoroughly estabhshed and appreciated, it is 
to be hoped that it will be extended so as to become an important prophylactic 
measure for reducing the terrible sufferings from malaria among the immense 
rural population of India. 

SEGREGATION OF EUROPEANS FROM THE NATIVE POPULATION.— 
Since it has become known that in highly malarious places a large proportion of 
the apparently healthy indigenous population harbour malarial parasites in their 
blood, from whom mosquitoes become infected and carry the disease to Europeans 
living among them in the tropics, the separation wherever possible of houses 
inhabited by European immigrants from native huts by a distance of from one 
quarter to half a mile, has become a most important prophylactic measure, which 
is specially appHcable to railway construction and other temporary camps or in 
planning new towns. 

REFERENCES TO MALARIA 

1887. Carter, H. Vandyke. Note on some Aspects and Relations of the Blood Organisms 
of Malaria. Sci. Mem. India, Part III, p. 139 (lUiistrated). 

1894. Crombie, A. Marchiafava and Bignami, on the Fevers of the Roman Campagna. Ind. 
Med. Gaz., p. 33. 

1894. Duncan, A. On the Prophylaxis of Malarial Fevers. Trans. First Ind. Med. Con- 
gress, p. 148, and Ind. Med. Gaz., 1895, p. 98. 

1896. Ross, R. Some Practical Points respecting the Malarial Parasite. Ind. Med. Gaz., 
pp. 42 and 86. 



240 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

1896. Tull-Wabh, J. H. A brief sketch of the Parasite of Malaria. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 433. 

1897. Murray, J. Notes on the Malarial Parasite as observed in the blood during life, and 

in the tissues post mortem at Lahore, Punjab. Sci. Mem. India, Part X, p. 29. 

1898. Ross, R. Further Observations on the Transformation of Crescents. Ind. Med. Gaz.» 

p. 14. 

1898. Ross, R. Report on the Cultivation of the Proteosoma Labbe in Grey Mosquitoes. Ind. 

Med. Gaz., p. 401. 

1899. Ross, R. Infection of Birds with the Proteosoma by the bites of mosquitoes. Ind. 

Med. Gaz., p. 1. 
1899. Melville, C. H. Malarial Parasites in Fever Cases (Quetta). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 4. 
1899. Ross, R. The Extermination of Malaria. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 231. 
1899. Ross, R. The Infectiousness of Malarial Fever and Kala-azar. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 

233. 
1899. McNaught, J. G. The Examination of the Blood in Malarial Fever. Ind. Med. Gaz., 

p. 351. 

1899. Feamside, C. F. An Unpigmented Haemamoeba found in Chronic Malaria. Ind. 

Med. Gaz., p. 311. 

1900. Nuttall, G. H. F. Upon the part played by Mosquitoes in the Propagation of Malaria. 

An historical and critical study. 
1899. Buchanan, W. J. The Value of Prophylactic Issues of Cinchona Preparations ; an 
experiment in Indian Jails. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 201. 

1901. Feamside, C. F. Inoculation of Malaria by Mosquitoes. Sci. Mem. India, Part XII., 

p. 19. 

1901. Buchanan, A. Mosquitoes and Malaria in Nagpur. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 48. 

1901. Liston, W. G. The distribution of Anopheles in Ellichpur Cantonment. Ind. Med. 
Gaz., pp. 129, 361 and 441. 

1901. Buchanan, A. Experimental Inoculation of Malarial Fever in Nagpur. Ind. Med. 
Gaz., p. 127. 

1901. Brahmachari, A. N. Five Cases of Quartan Fever. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 291. 

1901. Rogers, Leonard. The Effect of Silting Up of a Lower Bengal River on the pre- 
valence of Malaria, with some remarks on the spleen test, and the reduction of Malaria 
by filtered water. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 370. 

1901. Braddon, W. L. Note on the Rapid Cxire of Tropical Fevers by the administration 
of Quinine by Intravenous Injections. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 185. 

1901. Rogers, Leonard. The Seasonal Prevalence of Anopheles and Malarial Fever in Lower 

Bengal, and the Practical Application of the Mosquito Theory. Jour. Hygiene, p. 
407. 

1902. Stephens, J. W. W. and Christophers, S. R. Rept. to the Mai. Com. Roy. See, Series 

6 and 7. Relation of Malarial Endemicity to Species of Anopheles, etc. 

1902. James, S. P. Malaria in India. Sci. Mem. India, No. 2. 

1903. Feamside, C. F. Experimental Inoculation of Malaria, with a relapse eight months 

later. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 10. 
1903. Delany, T. H. The Diagnostic Value of Blood Counts in Malaria and other fevers. 

Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I (March 28). 
1903. Travers, E. O. An account of antimalarial Work carried out with success in Selangor, 

one of the federated states of the Malay Peninsula. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 283. 

1903. Stephens, J. W. W. Christopher, S. R., and James, S. P. Rept. to Mai. Com. Roy. 

Soc. 8th series. Mian-Mir Antimalarial Operations, etc. 

1904. Watson, M. Some Clinical Features of Quartan Malaria. Abstract in Jour. Trop. 

Med., p. 375, from Jour, of Malay Branch of Brit. Med. Assoc. 
1904. Blirk, James. An Analysis of 150 Cases of Fever (Singapore). Abstract in Jour. Trop. 
Med., p. 378, from Jour, of Malay Brit. Med. Assoc. 



]VIALARIAL FEVERS 241 

1904. Hope, Laiira M. Notes on 1,784 Cases of Malaria (Pubna, Eastern Bengal). Jour. 
Trop. Med., p. 182. 

1904. Boyee, Rupert. The Anti-malarial Measures at Ismailia. Mem. Liv. Sch. Trop. 

Med.. XII. 

1905. Aidie, J. R. Mosquitoes and Malaria in the Ferozapore District in 1903 (Punjab). Ind. 

Med. Gaz., p. 5. 
1905. Rogers, Leonard. The Nature and Prophylaxis of Fevers in the Dinajpur District 

(Lower Bengal). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 90. 
1905. Donovan, C. Medical Ca.ses from the Madras General Hospital. Ind. Med. Gaz., 

p. 411. 
1905. Ross, H. Researches on Malaria. Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, pp. 450, 541 and 

705. 

1905. Cropper, John. Notes on a Form of Malarial Parasite found in and around Jerusalem. 

Jovu". Trop. Med., p. 132, and Jovu". Hygiene, Vol. V, 5, p. 460. 

1906. Travers, E. O. Further Report on Measures taken in 1901 to Abolish Malarial Fever 

from Klang and Port Swettenham in Selangor. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 197- 

BLACKWATER FEVER 

1898. Powell, A. Haemoglobinuria in Assam. Joui-. Trop. Med., p. 117. 
1898. Sambon, W. L. Blackwater Fever. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 70. 

1898. Seal, C. E. B. Note on a Few Cases of Haemoglobintiria in India. Jovir. Trop. Med., 

p. 179. 

1899. Koch, R. Blackwater Fever (translation). Jour. Trop. Med., 1899. 

1899. Stephens, J. W. W., and Christophers, S. R. The Malarial and Bltickwater Fevers 
of British Central Africa. Rept. Mai. Com. Roy. Soc, 1899-1900. 

1901. Stephens, J. W. W., and Christophers, S. R. The Occurrence of Blackwater Fever 
in India. Rept. Mai. Com. Roy. Soc. 

1901. Stephens, J. W. W. Blackwater Fever. Lancet, Vol. I. March 23. 

1904. Kivers, J. H. Report on Blackwater Fever in the Soudan. Jour. Roy. Army Med. 

Corps, Vol. 2, p. 156. 

1905. Reynault, J. La Fievre bilieuse haemoglobinurique. Archives Med. Yavale, t. 85, 

p. 401. 
1905. Stephens, J. W. W., and Christophers, S. R. The Practical Study of Malaria. 



16 



X. DENGUE 

At variable intervals epidemics of dengue have spread widely in the East, attacking 
three-fourths or more of the entire population of large towns within a very few 
weeks, producing great dislocation of business, and then disappearing again, 
often for a number of years. According to Lichtenstern, the earliest reported 
outbreak was in 1779 at Java and in Egypt, and in the following year in Arabia and 
Persia, it also reached the United States of America. In 1824 another great 
wave started in the East severely affecting India, spreading to Suez, and during 
the following four years extended over the greater portion of the tropical and sub- 
tropical zone. During the next four decades several sUghter outbreaks occurred, 
the coast towns of India being attacked in 1830, 1835-36, 1844-47 and 1853-54. 
Another great epidemic appeared in 1871-73, this time originating at Zanzibar 
in East Africa, spreading to the Arabian and Indian coasts, and also involving the 
East Indies and Southern China. In 1876 Hong Kong was affected, the disease 
being also carried to Egypt, and in the next few years invaded parts of the Mediter- 
ranean coast, being very prevalent in Asia Minor and Turkey in 1889, In 1901 
dengue appeared in Hong Kong, was checked in the winter, but reappeared in the 
summer of 1902, and became prevalent in Singapore, Madras, and Rangoon and spread 
far inland into Upper Burma. As excellent descriptions of the great outbreaks of 
1824, 1872 and 1902 in India are on record, I carefully studied the original 
publications, and have based on them the following description of the principal 
features of the disease. The most important statements are given as nearly as possible 
in the words of the authors named in the bibliography at the end of this chapter. 

PREVALENCE. — The 1824 outbreak first appeared in Rangoon about the 
end of May and reached its height at the end of June. It appeared in Calcutta 
about the beginning of June and extended to Chittagong and Madras, and also 
widely inland throughout Bengal and the United Provinces, spreading mainly along 
the Ganges river. Guzerat, on the Bombay side, was also severely attacked in 
June, 1824, few escaping. Thus, the disease was by no means confined to the coast, 
and spread very rapidly over the greater part of India. 

Another characteristic feature is the exceedingly rapid spread through the 
population of affected places. Thus, in Calcutta in 1824 it is recorded that with 
very few exceptions it spared none of either sex or of any age, while Twining says 
that the earHest cases were seen on May 23, and in the course of ten days great 
numbers of persons were ill of the fever ; so that before the end of June nearly 
half the population of Calcutta had been affected, and eventually he estimated 



DENGUE— EPIDEMICS 243 

that not more than 200 out of the total inhabitants escaped. Throughout July 
the disease continued unabated, and towards the end of that month primary attacks 
were comparatively rare, there being few at that time who had escaped the fever, 
and no first attack was seen after August 11. In Guzerat very few indeed of the 
natives escaped, though Europeans were more fortunate : this is just the opposite 
to the regular incidence of seven day fever {see p. 314). 

In 1871 epidemic dengue reached Calcutta in October from Zanzibar, and 
continued to be prevalent throughout the cold season in the Hastings barracks, nearly 
every family, and in some cases every resident, being attacked. In April, 1873, 
it increased again in Calcutta, and during the following month it continued as a 
widespread and universal epidemic in Calcutta, and extended over the whole country, 
affecting all parts of Bengal in June, reaching the United Provinces, Bombay, 
Madras and Burma provinces in July. In September it overran the Punjab 
and Central India, while in Aden 80 per cent, of the population suffered so that no 
Province of India appears to have escaped the epidemic. 

Much milder outbreaks of what was considered to be dengue were also described 
by H. H. Groodeve in 1844—45 and by Edward Goodeve in 1853. The account of 
the latter writer appears to me to more closely resemble seven day fever than 
epidemic dengue, as only 28 cases were seen by Goodeve, two-thirds of which were in 
Europeans, nearly all sailors, although they occurred in the Medical College Hospital, 
where the great majority of the patients are natives, while it is recorded that " The 
present epidemic differed from previous outbreaks of dengue in the absence of 
severe rheumatic pains." It may, therefore, have been only a year in which seven 
day fever was unusually prevalent and thus attracted attention. 

As recently as 1902 a severe outbreak of dengue affected Hong Kong, Singapore, 
Madras and Rangoon, and from the latter place spread inland for about one thousand 
miles to Bhamo in Upper Burma in June from Rangoon, which had been attacked 
in May. This outbreak is believed to have come originally from Hong Kong. 
In Madras it was very widespread, while such was the infection in hospital, that 
so many of the medical staff and nurses were attacked at the same time as to quite 
disorganize the working of the institution. It attacked all races and showed no 
preference for Europeans, Calcutta escaped this outbreak, and it is worthy of 
note that seven day fever cases were unusually few there that year, which could 
scarcely have been the case when epidemic dengue was so widespread in neighbouring 
ports, if it be but a sporadic form of dengue, as has been suggested. I visited Madras 
in the hope of being able to examine the clinical records of a series of dengue 
cases to compare with those of seven day fever, but unfortunately they had not 
been preserved. An account of the disease by Lieutenant-Colonel W. B. Browning, 
I. M.S., however, shows that it was typical dengue and differed widely from seven 
day fever, while I have had opportunities of showing my charts and records of the 
latter disease to Major Cornwall, I. M.S., and Captain Cato,I.M.S., who hadseenmuch 
of the 1902 dengue in Madras and Singapore respectively, and they were both posi- 
tive that they had never seen the characteristic saddle-back temperature of seven 
day fever in that dengue outbreak. On the other hand, a number of cases chnically 



244 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

identical with seven day fever occurred in 1904 among the European artillerymen 
stationed at the Mount, seven miles from Madras, which were returned as dengue ; 
another instance of the two diseases being confused. The cases described as dengue 
by Bassett Smith in Bombay in 1897 also somewhat resemble seven day fever in 
their incidence among Europeans only and in their clinical course. 

In 1906 an outbreak of dengue occurred on a French warship of Saigong, in 
Cochin China, 115 out of 150 men being attacked. 

SEASONAL INCIDENCE. — The above account of the prevalence of dengue 
in India shows that the hot weather and rains is the regular season for the occurrence 
of epidemics of the disease, although it was prevalent throughout the cold season 
in Calcutta in 1871-72. 

RACIAL INCIDENCE. — Dengue affects aU races indiscriminately and does 
not show a preference for newly arrived Europeans which is so marked a feature of 
seven day fever. 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF DENGUE 

ONSET. — In the 1824 outbreak MelHs described the invasion as generally 
sudden with chilUness and occasional rigors, lassitude and pains in the head and 
body and sometimes in the muscles and joints. O'Connell Raye in 1872 says it began 
without premonitory symptoms, or was preceded by slight malaise for a day or two» 
sudden acute pain in one or more joints, followed quickly or accompanied by 
chills, scarcely amounting to rigors, and after about six hours by burning fever, 
pains extending to every joint and bone and maddening headache. 

BREAKBONE PAINS AND JOINT SYMPTOMS.— In both of the great Eastern 
epidemics the pains were the most characteristic symptom of dengue. Thus Mouat 
writes of the acute pain in all the joints, rendered excruciating on the slightest 
touch, and of universal soreness, rendering every position alike uneasy and intoler- 
able. Twining describes severe pains in the loins, muscles of the limbs, an extreme 
degree of anxiety and jactitation, the suffering from pain being a leading feature 
of the disease. Raye in 1872 records that " In all cases pain of greater or less 
severity is present. In the great majority it is the most urgent and distressing 
symptom, the earliest harbinger, the persistent companion, and the last vestige 
of the disease." Usually it is acute and sudden and may attack but one joint. 
With it there is racking headache, maddening pain in the back, as if it was being 
broken in two, or as if the body had been beaten with sticks, while, when apparently 
recovering, stiffness and soreness of the joints may return with redoubled energy, 
producing crippKng of the patient. Again, Edmonstone Charles wrote that " In 
more than half of the cases of dengue I have seen, this pain of the joints has been a 
symptom so well marked as to distinguish it from all other eruptive fevers," and he 
considered pain in the small joints as almost pathognomonic of dengue, although 
they may be absent in some cases. 



DENGUE— CLINICAL ACCOUNT 



245 



AFTER JOINT PAINS may last for long during convalescence from the fever, 
and produce the stiffness and crippling from which the name of dengue, or " dandy 
fever," is said to have been derived. Thus, Mellis writing after the 1824 out- 
break refers to the continued pains in several joints, large and small, sometimes 
in one finger only, so that at the time he wrote there were many whose limbs have 
been considerably paralyzed, and the smaller joints so benumbed as to render them 
incapable of being used freely. Twining remarks that protracted debility, long 
continued pains in the ankles, and duU aching pains in the joints of the fingers and 
toes, were almost invariably complained of for many weeks after the cessation of 
the fever. In 1872 Raye records that the joints ache for days or weeks after the 
cessation of the fever, and E. Charles says they may last for a day or two, or pass 
of in a week or ten days, but are often much more persistent than this, and last 
for six weeks or three months. W. G. Pridmore, I.M.S., also noted pains, swelling 
and tenderness of the joints in the Bhamo outbreak in 1902. 

CONVALESENCE is also often very slow, Kennedy in Guzerat saying that few 
recovered under three months from the debility and aching pains in the wrist 
and ankles, which the disease left behind it ; while Twining remarks that " although 
the most urgent febrile symptoms for the most part remitted in less than two 
days, I believe few were so fortunate as to pronounce themselves quite well in a 
month." 

DURATION OF FEVER AND TEMPERATURE CURVE.— One of the most 
commonly used symptoms for dengue is " three day fever " a term which occurs 
both in the older Indian writings and in Leichtenstern's account in NoihnageVs 
Encyclopedia of Medicine. It is certainly a correct designation as far as the great 
Indian outbreaks of 1824 and 1872 are concerned. Thus, Kennedy observed 
that the third day was decidedly critical ; 
Cavell found that in thirty-six hours the fevers 
almost always subsided and the patient was in a 
state of convalescence ; and Twining wrote of 
the remission of the pjrrexia after the second day. 
Of he 1872 outbreak temperature charts are 
available, and a series published by Raye show the 
temperature rising rapidly during the first 
twenty-four hours to from 103 to 106, and then 
falling quickly on the second or third day to the 
normal standard, or usually below it, 96 being 
common after the paroxysm has passed away. 
" For the rest of the attack the temperature rarely 
rises above the normal standard, unless for some 
accidental cause." Of 7 charts published by 
him in 1 the fever lasted one day, in 5 for two 
days, and 1 for two and a half days. In only 
one was there a very ephemeral secondary rise 







Chabi 


53 








DarcfVis 




5. 


3 


^ 1 S" 


& 


7. 


Xifnr 


ME 


M!E 


Me 


m;c 


ME 


iH I 


i*t 


106'- 
K)5»- 

1 108» - 

^ 102° - 

1.101° - 

99° - 
98" - 
97" - 


"i"" 






i;.::; 








-f- 


■■■:::;.: 




. - 


".•:.■■ 




-i-' 






- ' 


;:."»..". 


..IL. 


ri- 


■■•^-:- 


■ .i ;.' 


:J • 


: 


\X.~- 




— ^— 


:J:_ 


...p 


'.u;..:: 




.. 4... 


'"t 




„T—. 


— •i — 


..;—. 


~'B 


A 


■A' 


nr.- 


4. 


.•.•.;;. 


' ; 


„4-., 


..-a._ 




...;.... 




/ 


i\ 


..,+. .. 


z:^*T'. 


...._ 


—J— 




:.::], L: 




...|.. 


; 


/ 




"^^ 


:Ti:: 


..•.;■.; 




.J... 


■•■•• • 








^ 




n 


^ 






.T ,.■ 


y,\-:j:. 




: l._ 


■■-} i ■'■ 


V 


<-i^ 


. r:. 


;■ 




y 








;'..;■■■- 


v:l- 


'■:■':- 


.:'..: 









42" 



-41' 



f-40'' 






736° 



Ordinary type of dengue (Edmondston 
Ch arles). 



246 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



only to 100° F. Edmondston Charles remarked that the febrile stage of dengue 
is one of the most constant features of the disease, and he described it 
as foUows : "In general terms the highest temperatm-e occurs about twenty- 
four hours after the seizure, while before twenty-four hours more have ex- 
pired, the whole of the pyrexia is at an end. Such a complete crisis may be 
delayed for a day. He gives Chart 53 to illustrate the ordinary course of the 
fever. He also stated that the fever is distinctly remittent in character, varying 

Chart 54. 



IhirffVis, 


\ \. 


—\ 


r . 


3 




rr- 


— s— 


"T-r 


?v4r 
L40' 

Ul 

• 1 

: "^ 
i-57' 






nr... 


H~ 


-£-, 




EtE 




1- 




Ei:;u 


EE 


~r 


^ 


:: -■•r; 


;: 


. s- 


;::;E; 


'.-.'.-.■::. 


........ 




•"-1 


106' ■ 
IDS'- - 


-t- 


^~~ 


-r- 


iL' 




'::!::: 


3^' 




_--" 


r.xr 


.iTir;.: 


? 


■: 


.- 1_-|~ 


:: 








;:?E 


rxr 


-._ 


■\ 


:f-; 


=fe-B 


: J" 


EE 


3E 


'-_ 


X"^ 


'^. 


E^ri 


1- 


z ■ 


--r- 


::; 


5 " 


:.vH 


;:4v_ 


rj:: 


i:.t"; 


I 


-X 


~. 


: MV^- 




'^. 


:-■: 


__;.- 




^ 


-♦ - 




'^ 


~ 


- 




i-:;:r 


;:;;::: 






1 103'- 

"f- 102° 

6 


k- 


u. 


j 


, • ". 


\ 


■■- X'-' 


=E 


' 


-7~ 


"'"til' 


^ 


"~r 


"''-■ 


I i.];:j 


E 






S 









1 101° 

"^ lOO"- 

99° - 

98° ■ 

97° - 


r*- 


z^ 




- 1 


\ 


rij 


HE 


4 


1 


w 


Ef: 




-- 


_ — ».„ 

.t:;t::: 


i 


- 




E§ 


1 


1 


;-i;::- 


— 




_-_ 


-- 






if=/\ 


' 


s 


::;::: 




-m 


-^:.:^ 
^1l< 
" 


— 


— 




"::;.:: 


k 


ft 


=:.^ 


i__ 


"L 


~-'A 




-' 




If 


nur 


Ljt 


■\ 


/^ 


T- 




H 


^ 


S^ 


V^:. 


^sfe! 


- 




'■—_ 


T 
: ! 




— 1 — 




# 


:rtr: 


3:pz 


lj 


-7— 


1 


Sr 


^ 


L^ 


1 


IRT^ 


i-56' 



Dengriie, three-hourly chart showing remittent type of fever and slight secondary rise 
on the sixth day (Edmondston Charles). 



rapidly, so that three or four weU-marked alternations of temperature may occur 
in the course of twenty-four hours, as in Chart 54, which he gives to illustrate 

this point. Under the head of relapses, 
Chakt 00. jjg mentions that occasionally a sHght 

rise of temperature to about 100° F., as 
in Chart 54, may take place from the 
fourth to the sixth day, but this is excep- 
tional. In rare cases it may be more 
marked, as in Chart 55, which he gives 
as that of a severe relapsing dengue, re- 
marking that they are far from com- 
mon. The marked intermissions of tem- 
perature are noteworthy here, as they 
present a great contrast to the prolonged 
continued terminal rise of seven day 
fever as shown in Chart 73 and| pages 
308-309. W. G. Pridmore in the 1 902 out- 
.^ break in Burma records that the fever 

Dengue, severe relapsing type (Edmondston r, . , . , -.i i- i , • . ,. 

Charles). remams high with slight remissions, for 



DarcfDrs 


^ an ix. 1 s 


i 1 T ! a : ft 


'9 


t( 


r-42° 
1-41° 
1-40° 

tW f 

Us J 

i 1 

: «! 

i-57° 
1-56 = 


Time 


M E 


M E 


MjE 


M E 


ME 


MJE 


ME 


m t 


ME 


M t 


106* - 
105° - 


41 


?= 


-rt::: 


i±:j 


■■-tr. 


ri:;;. 


3= 


Br: 


-XJ 


■ -T 


^ »04' ■ 
1 108° ■ 
"f- 102° - 

*i 100= - 
99° - 
98° - 
97= - 


\ 


_"- 


".{.in 


__,~ 


nr^i 


Eg 


— 1— 


•■=?-■ 






\ 


1 


m 


:d-: 


ztr 




i; 


Efc 


"t;;" 




1 


1 


..4..1._a — 


-i- 


■-Ifc^^-j— 


-.._. 


':'f:$B 


1 


:::i:*:±:; 




:;.f;J:.fc;r 


■rM 


\\ 


EritiE 




:;'l;4:rE 


;lp- 




u 


iife 


i^iu 




1^ 


te 




1 


;::t::J:;;::: 




:i;-.-; 


A 


:|::|.li::;:::: 




■«— 


...;.-.il-^ 


mt 




■Alt- 


U-^ 


- 




^1 








r- 


m^. :::;::■: 


^ 






:-t;..r:V-'.v 




;;::"",' 


-4 : 


v.:.;!---^--. 



DENGUE— CLINICAL ACCOUNT 247 

one, two, or rarely three days, and then falls rapidly. A secondary rash was 
almost invariably present on the sixth day and " never accompanied by more 
than a trifling rise of temperature." Stedman's account of the Hong Kong 
outbreak agrees very closely with Pridmore's statement. 

These accounts of the temperature curve in dengue are in entire agreement 
with those of Leichtenstem and Sir Patrick Manson. The former describes the 
dengue a " three day fever," terminating usually by crisis followed by a sub- 
febrile stage with a secondary rash, and then convalescence without any second 
rise of temperature, but leaving extreme debility. The latter describes the fever 
as lasting from one to three or four days, terminated in the vast majority of cases 
by falling abruptly to below the normal line about the end of the second day by 
crisis of diaphoresis, diuresis, or epistaxis. From the fourth to the seventh day 
there is commonly a terminal rise of but a few hours' duration, and reaching to 
103° F. 

It is unnecessary to dilate on the marked dilBferences between these descriptions 
and temperature charts of dengue, and those of seven day fever given on pages 
304-309, for the divergence between the two are as striking as the points of 
resemblance are slight. They are tabulated on page 316. 

RASHES. — In the early stage there is often a primary red erythematous rash 
over the face and sometimes on the extremities, but rarely, according to Raye, on 
the abdomen. It fades with the decline of the temperature. A secondary rash 
of a papular nature appears usually on the fifth or sixth day, without any rise of 
temperature (Raye and E. Charles). It is best marked on the arms and chest, but is 
usually also seen on the body and legs, and may affect the face, although less markedly 
than in measles, which it otherwise closely resembles in its general character. It is 
often of very short duration, and usually fades after about twenty-four hours. E. 
Charles states that it may be urticarial in nature, and that it was absent or over- 
looked in about one-third of his cases. The occurrence of this rash in the absence 
of fever he thinks differentiates this disease from aU other exanthemata. E. Charles 
never saw any desquamation, but Mouatt mentions a scurf -like, or branny, 
exfoliation. 

RELAPSES. — ^Another feature of dengue is the frequency of relapses within 
a short time of the primary attack, and in the same season. Thus Twining observes 
that " Many suffered from relapses nearly equal in severity to the first attack, and 
third attacks have been seen." Kennedy says two attacks may occur in one 
month, and Raye saw them two to four weeks after the primary attack. 

THE PULSE in dengue is nearly universally described as being very rapid. 
Mellis found it to beat 30 to 40 strokes above the normal, while the increase was 
sometimes much greater ; Twining says it soon becomes remarkably frequent, being 
over 100 in most cases within six hours of the attack, and often more rapid, in one 
case reaching 140 ; Raye says it rises to 110 to 115 most usually, but 130 is not 
at all uncommon ; and E. Charles says that, although the pulse may be under 100, 



248 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

a very common rate is 108, while it only exceptionally rises above 120, although 
it may reach 140. In this point again the disease shows a characteristic difference 
from the almost invariably slow pulse of seven day fever. 

THE TONGUE is usually described as furred in the centre with red edges, and 
sometimes with red papillae on the dorsum. The THROAT may be shghtly con- 
gested, but rarely presents any prominent symptoms. A disposition to vomit 
is mentioned by one writer, but sickness appears to be a rare symptom. Catarrhal 
signs in the lungs are only mentioned by two writers, these organs not usually 
showing any changes. 

BLOOD CHANGES. — These do not appear to have been very closely studied. 
Still in the Philippine Islands found aleucopoenia, with a decrease of the polynuclears, 
and great variation in the proportions of the different mononuclears . The lymphocytes 
were first increased, and laterthe large mononuclears, Andrew Balfour found similar 
changes in a few Egyptian cases. Graham of Beyrouth has described an unpigmented 
amoeboid parasite in the red corpuscles. His observations still lack confirmation. 

DIAGNOSIS. — During the primary rash, dengue may be mistaken for scarlatina, 
some of the cases attributed to that disease in tropical places having been possibly 
really dengue. During the terminal rash it may resemble measles, but the absence 
of fever will generally serve to distinguish it. The differentiation from seven 
day fever is fully considered on page 316. 

ETIOLOGY. — Until quite recently we have had no precise knowledge of 
the mode of spread of dengue. In 1903 Graham in Beyrouth experimented with 
mosquitoes (culex fatigans), and five out of six healthy men bitten by infected insects 
developed dengue. During the present year (1907) Drs. P. M. Ashburn and C. F. 
Craig have communicated the disease by means of the same mosquito. Moreover, 
they also produced severe dengue in healthy men by intravenous injection of the 
blood of those suffering from the disease, and obtained the same result after passing 
the blood through a porcelain filter, which would retain the smallest known patho- 
genic organisms. They, therefore, conclude that the infective agent is ultra- 
microscopical in size. The incubation period of experimental dengue averaged 
three days and fourteen hours. These observations are of great interest and practi- 
cal importance as indicating prophylactic measures on similar hues to those of 
malaria and yellow fever. 

TREATMENT. — Quinine has no controlling effect on the fever. Sahcylate, and 
especially belladonna, are useful in allaying the pains, which are often so intolerable 
as to require morphia for their relief. 

DENGUE REFERENCES 

1825. Mellis, James. Remarks on the Inflammatory Fever or Epidemic lately prevalent 
in Calcutta. Trans. Med. and Phys. Society of Calcutta, Vol. I, p. 310. 

1825. Kennedy, R. H. Relating to an Epidemic Fever which occurred in Guzuratte in 1824. 
Trans. Med. and Phys. Society, Calcutta, Vol. I, p. 371. 



^ 



DENGUE— BIBLIOGRAPHY 249 

1826. Cavell, H. Observations on the Epidemic of June, July and August, 1824. Trans. 

Med. and Phys. Society, Calcutta, Vol. II, p. 32. 
1826. Mouat, J. On an Epidemic Fever at Berhampore. Trans. Med. and Phys. Society, 

Calcutta, Vol. II, p. 41. 
1826. Twining, WiUiam. Observations on the Fever which prevailed in Calcutta in June, 

July and August, 1824. Trans. Med. and Phys. Society, Calcutta, Vol. II, p. 1. 
1844. Goodeve, H. Description of a Peculiar Form of Eruptive Fever in Calcutta. Trans. 

Med. and Phys. Society, Vol. IX, 1844-5, p. 142. 
1855. Goodeve, Edward. Observations on the Epidemic Fever with Scarlet Eruptions, pre- 
valent in Calcutta in the hot and rainy season of 1853. Indian Annals of Med. Science, 

1855, Vol. I, p. 248. 
1872. Charles, Edmonstone. Clinical Lecture on Dengue. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 25. 
1872. Raye, O'Connell. Remarks on Dengue Fever. Ind. An. Med. Sci., 29, p. 137. 
1888. Sandwith, F. M. Dengue in Egypt. Lancet, Vol. II, pp. 107 and 154. 
1897. Bassett-Smith, P. W. Dengue Fever in Bombay. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 230. 
1902. Stedman, A. An Epedimic of Dengue Fever (Hong Kong). Brit. Med. Jour., VoL 

II, p. 94. 
1902. Pridmore, W. G. A Note on Dengue. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 380. 

1902. Pridmore, W. G. Dengue Fever in Burma. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, p. 1,582. 

1903. Graham, H. The Dengue : A Study of its Pathology and Mode of Propagation. Jovir. 

Trop. Med., p. 209. 

1904. More, F. W. Observations on Dengue in Singapore. Trans. Malaya Branch of Brit. 

Med. Assoc. (Reference in Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 389.) 
1906. Phillips, L. Dengue in Egypt. Joiir. Trop. Med., p. 378. 
1906. Cazamian, Dr. Quelques considerations sur Epid^mie de Dengue k bord de Kersaide. 

Archives de Med. Navale, April, 1906. (Saigon, Cochin China.) 

1906. Still. Blood Changes in Dengue. Philippine Jour. Science, 1906. 

1907. Balfour, Andrew. Note on the Differential Leucocyte Count, with special reference 

to Dengue. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 113. 
1907. Ashburn, P. M., and Craig, C. F. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, Feb. 23, and Philippine 
Jour, of Sci. 



XI. PLAGUE 

HISTORY OF PLAGUE IN INDIA.— In certain Hindu ^Titings, of at least 
800 years old, accounts of pestilences, accompanied by death of rats, are to be 
found, since which time a number of outbreaks believed to have been plague have 
occurred in India, notably in the seventeenth century on the Bombay side. During 
the eighteenth century India appears to have been free from the disease, but early 
in the nineteenth century several recurrences of plague took place of which we 
have authentic accounts. In 1815 bubonic plague broke out in Kutch and Kathiawar 
in the north of the Bombay Presidency, following three years of famine, and lasted 
until 1819, causing much mortaUty in the crowded and filthy towns. In 1836 
a fresh outbreak occurred in the town of Pali in Marwar, Rajputana, which is 
generally referred to as " PaH Plague." One-fifth of the inhabitants of this town 
were carried off, and it spread to a number of villages around. Both pestis minor, 
and cases which can now be recognized as pneumonic plague, were noted in this 
outbreak. A sanitary cordon was drawn round the infected area, and the disease 
died out in two years. • 

MAHAMARI. — In addition to the above occasional outbreaks in Western 
India an endemic focus of the disease has long been known in the Kumaon Hills, 
which form the southern slope of the Himalayas immediately to the west of Nepaul. 
Repeated locaHzed outbreaks have taken place here at irregular intervals since 
1823, when Mahamari was first discovered. The earher outbreaks have been weU 
described by McAdam, while a very severe one occurring in 1851-2 was reported 
on by Francis and Pearson, this presented glandular swellings and was distinctly 
contagious. In 1853 this outbreak extended to the plains in the Moradabad 
district, and lingered there until the following year. Since that date a number 
of smaller outbreaks of Mahamari in the Kumaon HiUs, which have been well sum- 
marized up to 1 894 by G. Hutcheson in the Transactions of the first Indian Medical 
Congress, have occurred. Up to that time the identification of the disease as 
plague depended on clinical observations, but on the appearance of the disease 
in an epidemic form in Bombay in 1896 renewed attention was directed to Mahamari, 
andin 1899 two medical officers were sent by the first Indian Plague Commission to look 
for the disease in the Kumaon Hills, but they did not meet with any cases. In 1902 
a fresh outbreak was reported, in which J. Chaytor White, I.M.S., isolated a bacillus 
which was recognized by W. H. Haffkine and E. H. Hankin to be identical with the 
bacillus pestis. It had earlier been suggested by Hankin that the Bombay outbreak 
may have originated through importation from the Kumaon Hills by some 



PLAGUE— 1896 OUTBREAK 



251 



religious mendicants, but it is considered as more likely that it was brought by 
ship from Hong Kong. Further information on the history of plague epidemics 
can be obtained from W. J. Simpson's treatise on Plague. 

THE 1896 OUTBREAK OF PLAGUE IN BOMBAY.— The mortality caused 
by the terrible epidemic of plague which became widespread in Bombay in 
1896, and is now prevalent over the greater part of India, is illustrated by Table 
XXV which shows the annual mortality in each of the British administered Pro- 
vinces year by year up to 1905. In 1896-97 the disease was practically limited 
to the Bombay Presidency, but during the next three years it spread to the 
other Presidencies, although as yet causing but a comparatively small mor- 
tahty except in Bengal, which was severely attacked in 1900. In 1901 the 
total cases rose at a bound from 73,576 to 236,433 on account of a great increase 
in Bombay and also a marked extension in Bengal and to a less extent in the 
Punjab. In 1902 the deaths in the Punjab increased by nearly 100,000, 
while the United Provinces for the first time showed a very severe infection. In 
1903 there was a further general increase, with a marked extension to the Central 
Provinces and the neighbouring Berar, and plague continued to be equally 
widespread up to 1905 (the last complete figures available) although in the 
last year there was a great dechne in the Bombay Presidency and the Central 
Provinces, counterbalanced by an equally great increase in the United Provinces. 



TABLE XXV.— YEARLY PROVINCIAL DEATHS 


FROM PLAGUE 


IN INDIA. 




Total deaths 
in British Bombay. 
Provinces. 

1 


Punjab. 


Madras. 


Bengal 


United 
Pirovinces. 


Central 
Provinces. 


Berar. 


Assam. 


North. 

West 

Frontier. 


1896 


2,219 i 1,936 


afew 























1897 


48,086 47,710 


a few 


— 


— 


afew 


— 


— 


— 


— 


1898 


89,265 86,191 


2,019 


557 


219 


148 


131 


— 


— 


— 


1899 


102,369 1 96,596 


255 


1,658 


3,264 


7 


584 


— 


— 


— 


1900 


73,576 33,196 


572 


660 


38,412 


135 


590 


— 


— 


— 


1901 


236,433 128,259 


16,720 


3,035 


78,629 


9,778 


9 


— 


— 


— 


1902 


452,865 184,752 


175,645 


11,362 


32,967 


48,487 


459 


4,188 


— 


— 


1903 


684,445 281,269 


192,068 


13,006 


65,680 


80,729 


35,335 


16,179 


a few 


afew 


1904 


938,010 223,957 


396,257 


20,125 


75,436 


179,082 


32,820 


10,046 


— 


— 


1905 


940,821 71,363 


334,897 


5,788 


126,084 


383,802 


5,345 


7,361 


61 


31 



1 All imported casea. 

During 1906 the disease also broke out virulently in Burma, and during 1907 
a few cases have been reported west of the Indus. It is noteworthy that 
the disease has never claimed any great number of victims in the Madras Pre- 
sidency, wliich cannot be altogether attributed to the passport system adopted 
there, while still more striking is the fact that Eastern Bengal and Assam 
has altogether escaped the epidemic manifestation of plague in spite of imported 
cases occurring from time to time. In this Eastern Province the want of 



252 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

spreading power of the disease is largely accounted for by the fact that the houses 
are very rarely closely aggregated into villages, but are nearly all widely separated 
by rice land one from another, thus naturally limiting the chances of spread by 
rats burrowing from one hut to another as in the crowded villages of most parts 
of India. 

SEASONAL MORTALITY. — The following information has been derived from 
an excellent review of the incidence of plague in India published in the Report 
of the Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India for 1904. When the 
epidemic was limited to the Bombay Presidency the greatest prevalence was in 
September and October, but with the infection of the North of India it shifted to 
March, and recently has been found in April. There is always a marked fall in the 
very hot months of May and June, to reach the minimum in June or July, followed 
by a temporary rise in October, and a steady one beginning from December on. 

SEX INCIDENCE. — The death rate is nearly always higher in females than 
in males, especially in the Punjab and at the time when the disease is most 
severe. This is explained by their staying at home, and being thus more exposed 
to infection through rat fleas. 

HOUSE INCIDENCE. — The house incidence is most severe in the large closely 
packed villages of Bihar, the United Provinces, and the Punjab (72 per cent, of 
the people of the Punjab living in large villages), and less so in the scattered home- 
steads of Lower Bengal and Assam. In large towns, however, two and three 
storied buildings suffer less than single ones, being freer from rats. 

RELATIONSHIP TO RAT INFECTION.— This is very close, for although 
the infection is usually first carried to a distant place by human beings, or by 
rats on board ship, yet it is only after these animals become widely infected that 
the disease becomes indigenous. It commonly spreads to neighbouring houses 
which are back to back, when there is no direct or easy communication between 
the inhabitants of them, just as if carried through rat burrows. Dealers in rat- 
infested grain suffer greatly unless they sleep away from their stores. Those living 
in stone-paved areas and masonry houses suffer less than the inhabitants of mud- 
walled houses. The disease is also mostly caught at night in the houses, and by 
persons going into infected ones after their recent evacuation. Further, a marked 
reduction in the disease has been observed to follow extensive rat destruction in 
Bihar, Rangoon and in villages in the Punjab. 

INFLUENCE OF CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.— The remarkably sudden decline 
of plague with the onset of the hot weather has already been mentioned, and has 
been attributed to the attenuating effect of the heat on the baciUus of the disease, 
to the people largely sleeping out of doors, and to rats ceasing to breed at 
that time of the year. The decline takes place earlier in Bihar than in the Punjab 
in accordance with the hot weather setting in sooner in the former province. Further, 
the completeness of the disappearance of the disease is in direct ratio mth the 



PLAGUE— BUBONIC TYPE 253 

fierceness of the temperature and the dryness of the air. When the autumn has 
been unusually hot in Northern India, the onset of plague has been deferred, and 
the exceptional dryness and heat in the Bombay Presidency in 1900 was accompanied 
by an extraordinary decline in the plague mortality. 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF PLAGUE 

Plague is perhaps the most variable of all specific infectious diseases, so 
that, while nothing is easier than to diagnose a group of typical bubonic cases, 
yet few more difficult problems are met with than the difiFerentiation of anomalous 
examples of the affection, such as present themselves in the form of pestis minor, 
a very mild form of the bubonic disease, or the pneumonic and septicaemic forms. 
As the great majority of the cases present the bubonic form this will first be described, 
and the variations met with in the other typical varieties will be subsequently 
pointed out. 

TYPICAL BUBONIC PLAGUE 

HISTORY OF ONSET. — ^Many of the severer cases of bubonic plague are quite 
unable to give any account of themselves when they first come under observation, 
but in such the clinical picture is commonly too clear to permit of any difficulty 
of diagnosis arising. When the history of the onset of the disease can be obtained 
either from the patient or his friends it is usually found that it was quite sudden. 
In some, however, PREMONITORY symptoms may have preceded the actual 
onset from a few hours to one or two days, such as lassitude, giddiness, frontal 
headache, furred tongue, sickness and diarrhoea, and mental dullness, pains in 
the limbs and sometimes also over the sites of subsequent buboes. The actual 
invasion of the disease is sudden, commonly with rigors or chiUiness, sickness, 
severe frontal headache, congested conjunctiva producing redness of the eyes, 
giddiness and sometimes unsteady gait as if intoxicated. Aching pains in the back 
and hmbs and sometimes in the abdomen may also occur. The temperature rises 
rapidly to a high degree, and the fever is accompanied by very severe constitutional 
disturbance, with marked bodily prostration, early mental hebetude, and dull 
appearance, while the speech becomes slow and the utterance thick. As the 
disease progresses, either great restlessness, or drowsiness and delirium, sometimes 
of a violent nature, supervene, gradually deepening into a pronounced typhoid 
state accompanied by muscular twitchings. Sometimes the mental condition 
remains clear throughout, or consciousness may return for a time shortly before 
death. 

THE TONGUE shows a thick coating of fur on the dorsum, becoming brown 
and dry in the later stages, while the tip and edges remain red and papiUae 
may also be seen through the fur. 

THE PULSE is rapid throughout, averaging about 120 a minute, but reaching 
a much higher rate in the later stages. It is soft and often dicrotic, and in fatal 



254 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



cases may ultimately show a tendency to occasionally drop a beat, thus foreshadow- 
ing the frequent sudden terminal cardiac failure, which may even take place after 
convalescence appears to be well established. The respirations are also markedly 
accelerated, reaching from 30 to 40 a minute. 

THE SPLEEN is early enlarged to a moderate degree, projecting sUghtly below 
the costal margin as a rule, while the LIVER is commonly also shghtly increased 
in size, and the abdomen may occasionally become distended. 

BUBOES are, however, the most characteristic and important feature of the 
common form of plague. The first indication of them is usually pain, often intense, 
over the site of a group of lymphatic glands accompanied by marked tenderness. 
This is quickly followed by slight enlargement of the glands themselves, with much 
inflammatory oedematous sweUing around them, producing anything from a smaU 
hard tense sweUing to a large boggy mass the size of an orange, which may take 
from a few hours to several days to develop. They are commonly accompanied 
by great pain, causing the patient to flex the thigh or to extend the arm at right 
angles to the body, in accordance with the position of the bubo in the groin or 
axilla. In about two-thirds of the cases the bubo is situated in the groin, in 
from 15 to 20 per cent, in the axilla, in about 10 per cent, in the sub-maxiUiary 
or cervical region, while in rare cases it may occur in the popliteal space or in the 
supra-trochlear gland just above the inner side of the elbow, and occasionally more 
than one group of glands may be affected one after the other. In the majority 
of patients who hve long enough the buboes suppurate during the second week, 
and ultimate healing takes place slowly as a rule, the process sometimes taking 
many weeks, during which death from marasmus may occur. In mild cases slow 
resolution may take place without breaking down, induration of the glands sometimes 
persisting for a long period. 

Chart 56. 



O^X'^OS 


5L ' 


■■"T-l 


' ^ 


^' 


^ 


L- 


,7 


^ 


^ 


/ 


O 




106° ■ 
105° ■ 
^i04°- 
1 IDS" ■ 
^ 102°.- 
|l01°- 

^ ioo°. 

99°- 




SE 


::^E: 






::;;;:: 


H-i 


_r- 


:^ 


3_ 


Zz-i 


- 1— 


-~.T-. 

— ;™. 


"="! 1 


~iE 


- I— 


5—: 


■-r 


i-4r 

i-40° 

759-1^ 
: ^ 

: S 

: ^ 
-38° s 

\ i 

1-57"= 
i-S6- 


-t 


jixr 




I ■ 


T 


...... 


liiSr 


-t 







-i~~ 


■ *- ■ 


:~!:~ 


7- 


— -h •■ 


; 


■zlir 








:■.■•-!;:;: 


•- 


t 


m 


"■'r 


> 


3E 


•4- 


3r" 


-4- 


Etl 


—t- 


EE 


f- 


EE_ 


'-- 


\ 


IplS 


> 


fN 




fl 


rt~ 




li 


m 




■3- 


_-U_^ 


~ " 


\i 


LI Rljrr 


r~— 


:r;r 


\^ 


mm 


m 


mm 


w 




H 


^l^ 


■~";.': 


.- 


■^ 




X|» 


.-4- 


-1-: 


i 


■ I 


V 


r 


-;-i-- 


k 


^ 


■-_M 




I 






H 


[ "i:::: 


V 




^ 


\ 

t 


§:;;; 


i_. 


■B~ 


t: 




:$~ 


-" 






:ir 




3^; 


V.Tf-- 


-'^\ 




-- 


X 






'^■ 


-tr 


— r — 


E^vJ 


: 


;:iE: 


~T 


....J... 


I- 

- 4- 


-^ 


„4. . 


i:i^# 


^ 


' 


98' - 
97° - 

ft./a. H 


■ 




— ' - 


- 








, 


K 


- 


— -i— ■ 


.■.■-t;.". 


:.r- . ■;■;;. 




r 


1 




' 


1 


>r 


...;-..: 


- 


V. ;.;; 


' - 


::.;:;•: :_±:: 


* . 


- 




-' 


1:^:- 




':;:::;:;■: 


■ -• 




TSar 




IIL 


___^ 


122 




^ 


_ 


Qsi 




ss 


__ 


AU 







Severe fatal bubonic plague in an European. 



PLAGUE— TEMPERATURE CURVES 



255 



THE TEMPERATURE CURVE.— The 
type of fever in plague is somewhat vari- 
able. The temperature rises rapidly and 
reaches its height in one or two days. 
In severe cases it presents the high-con- 
tinued type from 102° to 104° or more, but 
with a tendency to irregular remissions of 
several degrees in extent, occurring especi- 
ally in the later stages on from the third to 
the fifth day, and commonly followed by a 
marked rise shortly before death, as shown 
in Chart 57. In more favourable cases the 
curve is more remittent in character, as 
in Chart 59, falling to normal by lysis be- 
tween the fifth and seventh days when re- 
covery takes place, but showing a shghter 
degree of remittent or intermittent fever diuing the stage of suppuration of the 
bubo, as shown in Chart 58. A severe and prolonged case in a Eurasian with a 
cervical bubo is shown in Chart 56, which illustrates the greater resisting power 
of Europeans, and also the rapid pulse throughout the disease. 









Chart 57. 








jBAVW^Ws .-r 


i 




t 


1j5 — 1 




100'- 
105° - 

> 104° - 

^ ios° - 
jior. 

|l01° - 
'^ lOO'- 

99° 
Simil 
98' - 




-- 




- 




i . 




:;~1..". 


1-41- 
i.*(>° 

!J 

f-57" 




i 


-1 


■T^- 




-t 


—i— 


rl::-; 


• ■' - 


— : 


i-_ 


.^ 




..._ 




A 








% 


\ 


i 


-sf 


i: 


J. 


u 


- : 


-i_ 


V 


: 


":-": 


- : 


_f ■ :" r ■ 


-; - 


j:*_ 










> • - 


- 


1 








_ 


'- 




* 




. 






<- 






- " 








i" 




~ 




s;^ 






_J 


, 


;- '- 




m 



Bubonic plague, showing temporary 
remission shortly before death. 

























Chart 


58. 




























Wyo^O»^ X 


"1 


r" 


~7 


B1P= 


^ 




"7 


r"^ 


7 


J 




a 




/ 


9 


■^JL- 


^J^ 


12. 


\^ 


S 


"" ~i 


106'- 
105° 
■>>1D4'- 


■.•*-; 


:-: . 


"r_ 


--1 


"r 




^ 


—-.... 




Ejnr 




-- 


-\ ■ 




::":!:? 




- 




•"±"; 


- 








- 


1-41° 

: 1 

^°| 

\ 1 


::>£• 




^ 


Ijz. 


♦- 


-^ 


\ 
































. 


i 


/^ 


"+--- 


t 


^ 


\ 


^ 1 




,:.:■ 


— !~^ 




— 1— 


-yi— 






- 


■■;:-.?:' 


•=t--' 


' 


m 


ifH 


• 




1 **" 

> lor 

•^ 100'. 




~:~ 


-4- 

•* - 


.- ; 


ii 


\ :1 
i 

r 

-4- 


^ 




:..^r 


^ 


r 




:::!:::: 




!. 


'-^- 


rt., 


'Z- 












zl:: 


' 


-+ 




-*. . 




\ 


j 


^ 


r 


V 


L 


\ 


:±: 


t 


1 


A 


..;. ;. 


-:•" 


J 










..H 


1 '- . 




^ 


-t- 


' 


^ 


^ 


'-" 


■ ; 


\ 


zt:. 


1 


^ 


f 


1 


rr-: 


' 


■j- 




— 


.- 


99° 
98' ■ 
97- ■ 


br 




■ 1 


— 


r- 








— 1 


>- 




\m 


A 


J' 




— 




^ 


'"* 


^ 


y 


^ 


^ 
















.^ 















> 


- 


..',.. 


^ 


1 


/•• 


-r- 




+ 






1 


■ 




- 


"- 




> 


-±: 






'.?■ 


'. X". 












■■■B. 




•«. 1 


,'- 




il- 


■ 




1 




• 


'I:. 








"if-i: 


'•sli^ 


^r 


^, 






'- 



Bubonic plague with suppuration of bubo, and recovery. 



DURATION OF THE DISEASE. — In Calcutta half the cases admitted died 
within two days, and in another third the fever lasted only three or four days 
after admission. The history of illness before admission averaged just under 
four days. Convalescence is very slow. 

PRIMARY VESICLES AND PUSTULES.— In a small proportion of bubonic 
plague cases a primary lesion, in the form of a vesicle or pustule, can be found on 



256 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

Chart 59. 





"T^ 




"7" 








r- 


•9 


'i l^o 


// 1 


/x 


-^^ 


_'"€' 


: 1 

Th9f 1 

-.Sh ■ g 
1-7,7 '■ 
i-36" 


lUtJ"' - 
105"- • 

1 '05' 
i lOZ' 

•5 lOO- 






.i- 




r '■ 




■ ■ 










r 




r-^ 


■ :- 


-z 


•■•::■;: 


■":'■ 












T,Tr 


■-V 


- 


£1 


u:: 


-' 






^ 


:-■ 








■-:.:: 


j^ 


fc:^ 


p. 


L_-J^ 


::::." :.--■:■ 








'^X'-'- 


■;;;;:: 


















■■^r 




¥ 


fe 


V^ 


liSp 








'-.v. 






,■■'':.: 












; 


■.:t ■: 


:::\--. 


T 




^ 


w^ 


If 


■.;."■■ 






■.■.:?:-" 




■r 


■■.::;'; 










'..'X-'- 


:.■•.>. .. 










.si 


B^ 




■;;■; 


;"J" 


. il" 


ri 


..' ji. .'. 


■.-::■ -, 












99 - 
Xmml 
T)« ■ 

»7- - 






:..:\:': 




' 


:;;.;..■; 




i 




A 


":.!:"' 


^'^1^ 


"* 


■i- 


::l:.. 




A 
■1 


£r- 


•■'•;!; 


- 


"'":. 




'.'.'.X-''- 


...... 


" 


::."|. . 






,.i; , 




. ::■:.;: 


' 


...1.-.: 




.^ 


J'^ 








:.■:■ . 


1 














. .].. .:.. . 


■ 








V 


!^ 






_ 


^M 


It 


■. ■ 


r 


k.. _ 




- 














;••-:•■■"&. 


''- 






.■-■. 


3:; 


1 
















■/±i 


£i:;- 






a:-;:!±:: 


.:,.;.:.. 




:::\:r 


.v.:-; 


•:;|:.: 


!. 


■4v^-. 


"'i:;' 


•-{... 


:i:: 




'■'r : 









Bubonic plague, with recovery. B. pestis obtained in pure culture from the primary vesicle. 

the skin area which is drained by the affected lymphatic glands, consequently 
on the lower extremities in the majority of cases. These lesions are most important 
owing to their occurring especially in the mildest and least characteristic cases, 
while, as they contain a pure culture of the plague bacillus, they furnish a ready 
means of confirming the diagnosis by the microscopical and cultivation tests. 
The writer has obtained pure cultures from such lesions in a number of plague 
cases in the Medical College Hospital, Calcutta, during the last few years, and Charts 
68 and 59 are both from cases in which the diagnosis was confirmed in this way by 
J. W. I. Megaw, I.M.S. 

CARBUNCLES have only occasionally been met with in the present Indian 
plague epidemic, but I have seen one such case in which the lesion was situated 
on the breast of a native woman, the lesion, together with the axillary glands, 
being removed in the surgical wards under the impression that the disease was 
malignant pustule, but mixed plague bacilli and streptococci were cultivated from 
the breast lesion, and pure plague bacilli from the glands ; the case ultimately 
proved fatal, well illustrating the great difficulty in the diagnosis of some cases 
of plague. 



PESTIS MINOR 



During outbreaks of plague very mild ambulant cases are occasionally met 
with, which may present great difficulties in diagnosis, and hence are liable to be 
overlooked. They show only a shght degree of fever, with some tenderness and 
enlargement of a group of glands, but without the severe constitutional disturbance 



PLAGUE 



257 



of typical bubonic plague, while they may continue to move about and only lie 
up for a short time, if at all. Such cases are exceedingly difficult to differentiate 
from slight septic infections and the so-called climatic buboes, unless they happen 
to occur in plague-infected houses, or among coolies employed in plague-disin- 
fection work, among whom this form of the disease is not very rarely seen. In 
doubtful cases a bacteriological examination of fluid obtained from the affected 
glands by means of a hypodermic syringe will alone clear up the case. In some 
instances a number of such cases occurring in the absence of any typical plague 
have been described as pestis minor, but in the absence of bacteriological con- 
firmation it seems more probable that they were only " cHmatic buboes " as Sheube 
suggests. 



SEPTICAEMIC PLAGUE 



Chabt 60. 



At the opposite end of the scale to pestis minor we have a fulminant type 
of plague — the pestis siderans of old writers — in which the organism of the disease 
invades the blood stream without first producing the characteristic local 
infection of a group of lymphatic glands, which constitutes the essential feature 
of the bubonic form, but here it causes a rapidly fatal septicaemia. This form 
may present great difficulties of diagnosis, especially when seen early in an outbreak 
of plague, but the severe constitutional symptoms of sudden onset, with con- 
gested suffused eyes, very rapid soft pulse, some tenderness of all the superficial 
lymphatic glands without definite enlarge- 
ment, swollen and tender spleen, delirium 
and fever of a high degree from the very 
first, with a tendency to early collapse ; 
constitute a cUnical picture which will 
generally allow of a correct diagnosis 
being made, which may be confirmed, if 
necessary, in the later stages of the disease 
by finding the bacillus in the blood by 
microscopical or cultural tests. In some 
cases the temperature may be of a low re- 
mittent type, scarcely rising above 100° F. 
owing to feeble reaction of the system to 
an overwhelming dose of toxins, while 
the curve tends to be more remittent than 
in the other forms of plague, as shown 
in Chart 60. The disease may be fatal 
within twenty-four hours, and usually 

terminates in two or three days, but in rare cases which survive longer a bubo 
may appear in the later stages of the disease. 




Septicaemic plague. 



17 



268 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



PNEUMONIC PLAGUE 



In the Bombay outbreak L. F. Childe, I.M.S., noticed the occurrence of a number 
of rapidly fatal cases of pneumonia, and on investigating them he found the 
sputum contained an almost pure culture of the plague bacillus, the lungs being 
apparently the primary seat of infection. This form of the disease may again 
present difficulties of diagnosis, and as it is by far the most highly infectious 
variety, its early recognition is of great importance. The general symptoms are 
those of pneumonia beginning with chiU, pain or tightness in the chest, high con- 
tinued fever, rapid pulse and very rapid respiration, which may reach 60 or more 
per minute, accompanied by severe constitutional symptoms as in other forms 
of plague. The physical signs, however, are not in proportion to the severity 
of the general symptoms, as the consolidation is of the broncho-pneumonic type, 
although the patches are usually larger than those of ordinary broncho-pneumonia, 
being formed by the conglomeration of a number of smaller areas, very much as 
in the pneumonia of influenza, while the consohdation is frequently situated in 
the central parts of the lungs. Consequently only slight loss of resonance may 
be found with rather coarse crepitations over the affected areas. Herpes is al- 
ways absent, according to Childe, while there may be some tenderness over the 
superficial lymphatic glands together with tumefaction of the spleen. Buboes 
are absent in primary plague pneumonia, but it must be borne in mind that 
a secondary form of pneumonia may occur in the latter stages of t3rpical 

bubonic plague. The diagnosis of primary 
plague pneumonia can fortunately be readily 
confirmed by a microscopical examination of the 
sputum, which is watery and sometimes very 
abundant ; it may be streaked with blood, but only 
very rarely has the viscid rusty character of 
ordinary pneumonic expectoration. It contains 
Lgof- enormous numbers of the typical short bipolar 
staining bacilli of plague, either in pure culture or 
mixed with various cocci. The disease is exceedingly 
fatal, usually within two to four days, and it is 
doubtful if it is ever recovered from. All the 
cases I myself verified by microscopical examina- 
tion during several years at the Medical College, 
Calcutta, terminated fatally. Chart 61 illustrates 

Pneumonic plague. this type. 




r42" 



L41. 



-40" 



v5 



^S8»| 



-■57° 



TREATMENT. — A plague serum has been made by Yersin and others, but 
has proved of Httle or no use in practice whenever its trial has been carefully con- 
trolled. Nor have any drugs a specific value in the treatment. Careful nursing 
and supporting the strength with fluid food and stimulants, with cardiac tonics 
when indicated, may reduce the mortaHty to some extent. Great care is required 



i 



PLAGUE— BLOOD CHANGES 259 

during convalescence, as sudden death from cardiac failure may foUow sitting up 
in bed or rising suddenly. A bubo should only be opened if it suppurates. 

THE BLOOD CHANGES IN PLAGUE 

In six cases of plague examined by Acoyama very marked leucocytosis was 
present, occasionally exceeding 100,000, most commonly due to excess of polynuclears, 
but sometimes showing a lymphocytosis instead. In a series of 28 cases recorded 
by me the following results were observed. The percentage of haemoglobin 
was higher than the normal for natives of India in half the cases, more especially 
in those examined early, but in the later stages it frequently faUs weU below the 
normal. The red corpuscles were also increased in over half the cases, and numbered 
over 6,000,000 in several instances ; these changes being of importance in differen- 
tiating the disease from other severe septicaemic conditions, in which anaemia is a 
marked and early sign. In one very difficult case of the carbuncular form of the 
disease with a mixed infection of plague bacilli and streptococci, anaemia was well 
marked, the haemoglobin being 58 per cent, and the red corpuscles numbering 
2,450,000. 

THE LEUCOCYTES were found to be of still greater importance, in spit© 
of the changes not being quite constant. With the exception of one very malignant 
bubonic case, proving fatal on the second day of the disease, and the septicaemic 
one shown in Chart 60, some degree of leucocytosis was found in every case examined 
during the first three days. In bubonic cases the degree was usually a slight or 
moderate one, in only one-tenth of the cases did the number exceed 20,000 per 
c.cm. In the septicaemic forms from 20,000 to 60,000 were usually met with 
in the early stages, while in two pneumonic cases one showed 19,250 and the other 
only 2,000. From the fourth day onwards leucocytosis is most frequently absent, 
especially in mild cases which ultimately recover. Thus the total leucocyte counts 
are similar in character to those met with in other septicaemias, namely a well 
marked leucocytosis as a general rule, but there is occasional absence of leucocytosis 
in some very severe or very mild cases. 

THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT.— This was found to often present 
a peculiarity which may be of diagnostic value. In the leucocytosis of pneumonia 
and ordinary septic conditions there is a marked relative increase of the poly- 
nuclears mainly at the expense of the lymphocytes, so that the former number 
somewhere about 90 per cent, and the lymphocytes only about 10 per cent. In 
the leucocytosis of plague, on the other hand, the percentage of lymphocytes may 
not be reduced and may even be actually somewhat high, over 20 per cent, being 
not infrequently met with, so that the total number of lymphocytes is markedly 
increased. Unfortunately this lymphocytosis was only met with in half the cases 
examined during the first three days of the disease, so that, although its presence 
is an important aid to the diagnosis, yet its absence in no way excludes the presence 
of plague. Thus in the case of cervical bubonic plague, whose temperature curve is 



260 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

shown in Chart 58, a blood film had been taken as a routine measure, and on examin- 
ing it — without knowing anything of the history or condition of the patient — I 
was at once struck by the marked and peculiar type of leucocytosis present, 
and as the differential count showed 44 per cent, of lymphocytes, plague was 
suspected, and the patient, who had been admitted to the General Hospital 
as probably not a case of plague at all, was at once isolated. 

On the other hand the large mononuclears are not increased in plague, but 
rather tend to be low. On one occasion when I first observed an increase 
of large mononuclears in the blood of a patient in the plague ward, malarial 
parasites were sought for and found, and the patient removed from the ward, 
and, although he was in a critical condition, recovery took place under vigor- 
ous quinine treatment. In another case which had been treated for plague for 
several days I found very numerous malignant tertian parasites, but here fatal 
coma had already set in. In all doubtful cases, then, a blood examination 
may be of material service, and should in all cases be made. 

BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS 

The importance of the very early diagnosis of plague, especially at the com- 
mencement of an outbreak, when there may be no medical man available with 
much experience of the disease, hardly needs to be further emphasized. The 
urgency of the matter is often only equalled by its difficulty, and in many cases 
even the impossibihty, of effecting a diagnosis by clinical means alone. Too much 
stress cannot, therefore, be laid on the necessity for the early use of one of the 
following bacteriological aids, by which definite information can rapidly be obtained 
in the vast majority of cases. 

Firstly, a careful search should be made for any primary vesicle on the skin 
drained by the affected lymphatics in bubonic cases, for these are most frequently 
met with in the mildest, and therefore the most difficult cases to distinguish, and 
they are by no means rare in my experience. If found the fluid contents should 
be withdrawn with a sterile syringe after carefully cleansing the skin and cultures 
and sUdes for microscopical examination made. 

Secondly, if no primary vesicles are present but there is enlargement of a 
group of lymphatic glands, the latter should be punctured in a similar way, in 
order to ascertain if plague bacilli are present in them, or only staphylococci, 
as in cases of " cHmatic bubo." It must, however, be borne in mind that in 
the suppurative stage of plague buboes the specific baciUi may be absent and 
only staphylococci found. Before the suppurative stages very numerous short 
bi-polar staining bacilli of plague will be obtained in this way. These are 
quite characteristic of the disease, and will enable prompt action to be taken 
without waiting for the confirmation which will be afforded by the cultivation 
of the organisms. 

Thirdly, in the absence of buboes either the septicaemic or pneumonic forms of 
plague may be present. If the former is suspected a small syringe full of blood 
should be taken from a vein in the arm, as described on p. 26, and cultures made 



I 



tr 
o 

So 

CD O 

» n 




'Si' 



s* 




PLAGUE— BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS 261 

both on agar and in broth, and films stained and examined microscopically. In the 
later stages of the disease, which may be reached as early as the second or third 
day, the characteristic bipolar staining bacilli may be present in the circulation 
in sufficient numbers to allow of their being detected by a microscopical 
examination and readily isolated by culture. In making cultures from the 
blood from 1 to 2 cc. should be added to from 50 to 100 cc. of broth in a 
flask, to which a few drops of oil may be added in order to obtain the character- 
istic stalactitic growth of the plague bacillus. E. D. W. Greig, I. M.S., has recently 
recorded that by this means he cultivated the organism from the blood of 59*8 per 
cent, of all kinds of plague cases examined soon after admission during the first 
three days of the disease, the mortality of the positive cases being 97 per cent., 
while that of the negative was only 43 per cent., so that this method also fur- 
nishes evidence of prognostic value. 

In pneumonic cases the sputum will show innumerable plague bacilli, often 
in almost pure culture, and will also allow of the organism being isolated in plates, 
so a microscopical examination should never be omitted in any case of pneumonia 
which may possibly be due to plague. 

Much work has been done at the agglutination test in the serum diagnosis 
of plague, but it has not been found to give satisfactory results, and is altogether 
inferior to the methods above described. 

THE ETIOLOGY OF PLAGUE 

The intimate relationship between human plague and the epizootic disease 
in rats, which has been known for centuries, has led to repeated attempts to find 
the link between the two forms. The important role which insects have been 
proved to play in carrying the infection of other diseases to man, naturally caused 
attention to be paid to fleas and bugs as possible transmitters of plague on the 
occurrence of the Bombay epidemic. Numerous observers have found the B. 
pestis in the stomachs of these insects, and especially in the case of the flea. Simond, 
as early as 1898, produced plague in mice by injecting crushed extracts of fleas from 
a plague rat, while he did some experiments which indicated that the disease was 
conveyed from rat to rat only when fleas were present, and suggested that as these 
insects, while feeding, often discharged the contents of their intestines, which 
contained plague bacilli, the organisms might become inoculated through the 
puncture. Nuttall about the same time unsuccessfully attempted to transfer 
plague from one animal to another by means of bugs. Ashburton Thompson of 
Sydney, for epidemiological reasons, has persistently supported the rat flea theory, 
in spite of Tidswell failing to obtain experimental evidence in its favour. In 
1902 Gauthier and Ray baud had some success in obtaining infection of rats through 
fleas in Marseilles, the Pulex cheopis being among those present in that place. In 
the meantime W. Glen Liston, I. M.S., who had for long been patiently investigating 
the question in Bombay, in a lecture delivered in 1 905 on plague and its relations 
to rats and fleas, recorded having found that plague bacilli multiplied in the 
stomach of a flea, since identifled by Hon. N. C. Rothschild as Pulex cheopis. 



262 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

He also made the remarkable observation that guinea-pigs, naturally infected with 
plague, harboured numerous rat fleas, some dead rats having also been found near 
by. Conceiving the brilliant idea of using guinea-pigs to trap rat fleas in plague 
infected houses, he was able to prove that after rats had died of the disease in a 
house their fleas could be found on guinea-pigs which had been let loose there, but 
not on those placed in uninfectesid rooms. Further, these rat fleas frequently con- 
tained virulent plague bacilli, and the guinea-pigs sometimes contracted plague. 
He further proved that rat fleas could be found in considerable numbers on 
human beings Uving in houses where rats had died of plague, although they 
were very rarely found free under ordinary conditions, while the men harbouring 
them sometimes contracted plague in these houses. Thus proving that the rat fleas 
deserted the dead bodies of their hosts and then attacked human beings. 

In 1905 a new plague commission was formed by the Secretary of State, in 
conjunction with the Royal Society and the Lister Institute, under Dr. C. J. Martin 
to which Liston was at once appointed in conjunction with Dr. Petrie and Rowland 
of the Lister Institute, to whom were subsequently added G. Lamb and T. H. 
Gloucester of the Indian Medical Service. They have worked in Bombay and 
the Punjab, issuing two important reports as special numbers of the Journal of 
Hygiene. The results have entirely substantiated and considerably extended 
Liston's work, the following being the more important points as yet settled. 

SmaU rooms were constructed in which animals could be exposed to infection 
in various ways, and it was found that plague could be transmitted from animal 
to animal only if fleas were present and had access to them. All animals protected 
from the fleas by a fine meshed wire, or by a surrounding area of a sticky fly- 
paper, escaped, although controls not so protected commonly took the disease. 
If fleas were absent, no amount of exposure to contamination with the urine and 
faeces of infected animals conveyed the disease, although both urine and faeces 
may contain the plague bacillus. The organisms multiply in the stomachs of 
the fleas, especially during the height of the plague season, when infection was 
conveyed up to fifteen days after being fed on a plague animal, but only as long 
as seven days in the minimum plague months. Cat fleas did not infect, and human 
ones only three times in thirty -seven experiments. The bubo in flea-carried 
plague in guinea-pigs is nearly always cervical. 

Experiments were also carried out in plague infected houses with the follow- 
ing results. Guinea-pigs placed in plague houses attracted many fleas, mostly rat 
ones, and 29 per cent, of these guinea-pigs died of plague, while previous dis- 
infection of the houses did not prevent this transmission. Further, fleas from 
plague infected rats found in houses either dead or dying transmitted the disease 
to healthy animals. 

Feeding experiments showed that plague can be transmitted in this way 
through a number of rats without losing its virulence, while the buboes in that 
case are mesenteric, indicating infection through the intestinal canal. Many 
thousand naturally infected rats, however, were dissected, and never showed mesen- 
teric buboes, showing that this is not the ordinary mode of infection in them. 



PLAGUE— PROPHYLAXIS 263 

in which case again the infection is doubtless carried by fleas. A chronic form 
of rat plague was met with frequently in the Punjab only, in which abscesses 
containing the B. pestis were found. Its exact epidemiological significance is 
unknown. 

The whole results may be summed up as indicating that the ordinary mode 
of infection of both rats and men is through the bites of the rat flea, Pulex cheopis. 

THE PROPHYLAXIS OF PLAGUE 

INOCULATION. — ^M. Haffkine's method of inoculation with a vaccine of 
dead plague baciUi undoubtedly has marked protective powers, both in reducing 
the incidence of the disease, as well as the death rate among those who may be 
subsequently attacked. In 1905 the demand for this treatment was double that 
of the previous year, while W. B. Bannerman, I.M.S., reported that the material 
now used had no injurious effect, also that the immunity it produced lasted from 6 to 
12 months or more. Among a large number of municipal employees, all equally 
exposed to infection, the incidence was '19 and the mortality '18 among the 
inoculated, against 67 and 62 respectively in the unprotected. 

R. P. Strong in the Philippine Islands has iatroduced a form of inoculation 
against plague in which a living attenuated organism has been used in nearly 200 
human beings without unfavourable results, and he claims that it is more 
efficient than Haffkine's method. 

RAILWAY, ROAD AND STEAMER INSPECTION.— The exammation of all 
passengers leaving Bombay during the last ten years has doubtless done much 
towards lessening the spread of plague over the world, indeed Rangoon was also 
protected from infection for a long period by these means. Railway and road 
inspection appears to have been of considerable value in Madras, but it has broken 
down sooner or later in other parts of India. 

QUARANTINE of infected persons in hospital is of value in limiting infection 
where it can be carried out. 

DISINFECTION has been most extensively used in India, but the good 
results are certainly not in proportion to the expenditure in labour and money 
which is now explained by its being ineffectual against the rat fleas. W. C. Hossack, 
in Calcutta, has shown that phenol is much more poisonous to fleas than perchloride 
of mercury, while I showed several years ago that it acts better against bacteria 
on the mud floors of most Indian houses, as the mercury salt is easily precipitated. 
Thus some form of carbolic acid should always be preferred for this purpose. 

EVACUATION OF HOUSES.— In outbreaks of Mahamari, or plague, in the 
Kumaon Himalayas, the villagers for generations followed the custom of desert- 
ing their villages on the occurrence of any unusual mortahty among the rats, even 
before they had themselves been attacked with plague, and they do not return 



264 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

to their houses for weeks or months. The Plague Commision have now furnished 
proof of their wisdom in doing so, while the poUcy of evacuation has always been 
the most successful method of combating the present Indian plague, whenever 
it has been practicable to carry it out, as in villages and the smaller towns. By 
this means the plague infected rat fleas are left behind, and will in time lose 
their infectivity. The well-known danger of going back to plague houses, even 
for a few minutes, and still more of sleeping in them, is also thus explained, as well 
as the frequency of infection through handling rats recently dead of plague, before 
their bodies have cooled down, by which time their fleas will have deserted them. 
Evacuation should clearly be relied on in preference to attempts at disinfection, 
and no return to the houses permitted for several weeks. 

DESTRUCTION OF RATS. — The value of this measure has ah-eady been 
mentioned, and it is of the greatest importance in view of the proof of the rat flea 
theory now furnished. Danysz's bacillus has frequently been tried in India, without 
much success ; rat poisons having been of more use in some instances. 

The difficulty in carrying out prophylactic measures in such an immense 
and widely distributed population as that now infected with plague in India can 
only be reahzed by those who have an intimate knowledge of the country, and 
its interesting, if highly conservative, inhabitants. Nevertheless, the recent 
invaluable additions to our knowledge made by the 1905 Plague Commission 
will at least allow of the energies and resources of the Government being fully 
utilized in the most effective manner. 

REFERENCES TO PLAGUE 

I. MAHAMARI OR INDIGENOUS PLAGUE OF THE KUMAON HIMALAYAS. 

1886. Chevers, Norman. Commentary on Diseases of India, p. 85 (with earlier references). 
1894. Hutcheson, G. Mahamari, or the Plague in British Garhwal and Kumaon. Trans. 
First Ind. Med. Congress, p. 304. 

1902. Chay tor- White, J. Report on an Outbreak of Mahamari, with bacteriological inves- 

tigation. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 283. 

II. BOMBAY EPIDEMIC OF 1896 AND FOLLOWING YEARS. 

1898. Simond, P. L. La propagation de la peste. Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, Vol. XII, p. 625. 

1898. Hank in, E. H. La propagation de la peste. Ann. de I'lnst. Pasteur, Vol. XII, p. 

705. 

1899. Nuttall, G. H. F. On the Role of Insects, Araclinoids and Myriapods as carriers in 

the spread of bacterial and parasitic diseases of man and animals. John Hopkin's 
Hosp. Reports, Vol. VIII, p. 15. 

1903. Gauthier and Ray baud. Recherches experimentales sur le role des parasites du rat 

dans la transmission de la peste. Revue d'Hygiene, Vol. XXV, p. 426. 

1906. 1905 Bombay Plague Commission Reports. Series I. Jour, of Hygiene, Vol. VT, No. 4. 

1907. 1905 Bombay Plague Commission Reports. Series II. Jour, of Hygiene, Vol. VII, 

No. 3. 
1899. Bannerman, W. B. Inoculation of an Entire Community with Haffkine's Plague 

Vaccine. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 81. 
1899. Haffkine, W. M. On Preventive Inoculation. Jour, of Trop. Med., p. 289. 



PLAGUE 265 

1901. Hossack, W. C. Reprints of Various Papers on Plague. Calcutta. 

1904. Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India, Report of, for 1904. 

1905. Rogers, Leonard. The Blood Changes in Plague. Jour, of Path, and Bact., p. 291. 

1906. Special plague number of Indian Medical Gazette, p. 241. 

1906. Hossack, W. C. An Experimental Investigation as to the Potency of Various Dis- 
infectants against Rat fleas. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 289. 

1906. Greig, E. D. W. On the Date of Appearance and Duration of Bacillus Pestis in the 

Peripheral Blood of Cases of Bubonic Plague in India. Jotu". Royal Army Med. 
Corps, July. 

1907. Strong, R. P. Studies in Plague Immunity. The PhiUppine Jour, of Science, June. 



i 

^ 



XII. YELLOW FEVER 

HISTORY. — Berenger-Feraud, in his work on yellow fever, records an elaborate 
chronological account of the occurrence of yellow fever outbreaks in various parts 
of the world, his main conclusions being the following. As no description of the 
disease by writers in Europe or Africa has been found dating before the discovery 
of America, it is most Ukely a primary disease of the Western Hemisphere. The 
earhest probable outbreak was in 1495 among the men of Christopher Colum- 
bus after the battle of Vega Real in the Isle of Spain in the West Indies, but the 
descriptions of it are very imperfect. The first indisputable description was that 
of P. Du Tertre in Guadaloupe in 1635, since which time accurate data have become 
more and more frequent, until during the last fifty years, or more, the disease has 
annually appeared in greater or less extent in the endemic areas, frequently spread- 
ing widely in most alarming epidemics, a full account of which will be found in 
the book referred to. The most important points to note are, that as early as 
1709-90 quarantine measures were carried out with very good results in diminish- 
ing the disease, but when they were practically done away with, during the wars 
of the French Repubhc and Empire, between 1791-1815, it was more widely pre- 
valent and destructive than at any other known period. Since that time, and 
especially after 1857, quarantine has again been vigorously enforced, being sup- 
plemented and partly superseded, subsequently to 1884, by disinfection measures 
based on the microbic theory of disease, which have doubtless served greatly 
to limit the extension of yellow fever, although they would appear to be powerless to 
stamp it out of the endemic area. 

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.— In discussing the distribution of yellow 
fever it is necessary to carefully distinguish between the endemic areas, in which 
the disease has a more or less constant yearly occurrence, and the much more 
extensive portions of the globe to which it may occasionally be carried from the 
endemic areas, giving rise to temporary epidemics, often of great intensity, but in 
which the disease cannot again arise without fresh importation. There has been 
much difference of opinion with regard to the limits of the endemic area, but 
Berenger-Feraud, after a most careful study of the question, has formulated the 
following conclusions. The most intense seat of yellow fever is on the Atlantic 
coast of Mexico and Central America, from Cape Tampico in the north to Cape 
Gracias a Dios in the south. Next come the Greater Antilles, including the 
large islands of Cuba, Jamaica, San Domingo and Puertorico, with somewhat less 
intense foci in the Lesser Antilles, including Martinique, Antigua, Guadaloupe, 

266 



YELLOW FEVER— DISTRIBUTION 267 

•etc. In these parts the disease may at any time arise without being imported, 
although even within this endemic area yellow fever is very frequently carried 
by ship from one port to another, and it may be apparently absent for several 
years at a time from different islands. For this reason precautions against the 
infection being carried from one part to another of the endemic area ought by no 
means to be neglected, and will, indeed, become of increasing importance as this 
fell disease becomes more and more limited in its incidence, by prophylactic 
measures based on the knowledge acquired by recent researches. 

In addition to the above-mentioned undoubted endemic areas, there are still 
more extensive tracts into which the disease is so frequently imported that some 
writers have considered that they should also be looked upon as containing endemic 
centres. Those about which there is the greatest difference of opinion are the 
<;oast of Brazil and the Atlantic coast of Africa from Senegambia to the Bight 
•of Benin, some writers, such as Andrew Davidson, including them within the en- 
<iemic area. It is generally agreed that up to 1849 yellow fever was not endemic 
in Brazil, although it had repeatedly been carried to that country. Since 1850 
a series of epidemic outbreaks have occurred in Brazil, in each of which a fresh 
importation occurred, and up to 1876 only one year was quite free from the dis- 
ease, although from 1862-8 it was so much in abeyance that in no year were over 
12 cases recorded. Quarantine measures have, moreover, done much to lessen 
its incidence, while the parts attacked have always been those trading with the 
West Indies, Mexico and Central America. For these reasons Berenger-Feraud 
eoncludes that yellow fever has not become endemic in Brazil, but is always im- 
ported, while with a personal experience of the disease on the West African coast, 
he advances similar arguments in support of his contention that there also yellow 
fever is frequently an imported affection, but not actually endemic, and conse- 
quently that it cannot arise without the infection being carried there. 

The next most important area to be attacked by imported yellow fever is that of 
the Atlantic coasts of the more southernly parts of the United States as far north 
as Charleston. New Orleans, with its great trade, is so frequently infected that 
between 1791 and 1884 outbreaks occurred there in sixty-four different years, 
while in twenty-seven the disease was absent, including four years when the coasts 
were blockaded during the war of secession. Latterly quarantine and disinfection 
measures have lessened the frequency of outbreaks in the States. Those parts 
into which yellow fever is habitually imported extend from Charleston (32^ 46' 
north latitude) to Rio Janeiro (22^ 54' south latitude). 

In addition to the countries in which epidemics of imported yellow fever are 
of such frequent occurrence as those above cited, the disease is occasionally spread 
to places far more distant from the endemic foci. The extreme limits yet invaded 
are Quebec, 46° 56' north latitude, and Montevideo, 34° 54' south latitude, in the 
western hemisphere ; Swansea, 51° 37' north latitude, and St. Paul du Loanda, 
in the Congo State, 9° south latitude, on the eastern side of the Atlantic, Near 
the southern limits the disease has proved to be very virulent, but at most 
northern places attacked it was distinctly attenuated in character, while they 



268 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

are situated on the isothermic line of 16° C. or 60° F. mean temperature at the 
hottest season of the year. Fortunately, outbreaks are very rare in these higher 
latitudes, although serious ones have occurred in Spain and Portugal, especially 
in the first two decades of the eighteenth century, extending to Leghorn in Italy 
in 1804, and milder ones in the same areas in 1870 and 1878. In 1861 St. Nazaire 
in France was attacked, while in 1865 the disease was imported into Swansea 
from Cuba. In 1878 the disease overran the United States, no less than 132 towns 
being infected, and about 16,000 persons carried off ; but since that date only 
the southern towns have occasionally been attacked, New Orleans having suffered 
within the last few years. In 1854 Peru was severely attacked, which is of interest 
as showing that countries bordering on the Pacific Ocean are not exempt, so that 
when the Panama Canal is open great precautions will be necessary to prevent 
the tropical shores of the Pacific — and possibly even the Indian Ocean — being 
invaded. There appears to be no reason why the importation of the infection 
into the doubtless very susceptible inhabitants of those areas should not be fol- 
lowed by appalling epidemics, far exceeding anything yet known in the endemic 
areas of the disease, where so many of the inhabitants are immune, while such 
epidemics might be followed by the permanent settling of the disease in an endemic 
form in parts of the world where the temperature and other conditions are suitable. 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION 

GENERAL COURSE. — Yellow fever varies so greatly in its symptoms in 
accordance with the mildness or severity of the attack, that it presents consider- 
able difficulties in description. It has been sub-divided by different WTiters into 
many types, most of which are named after the predominence of a single symptom, 
so that they need only be mentioned when deaUng with that particular point. The 
description of the different stages in the disease is, however, of much greater import- 
ance, as their presence or absence serves to distinguish between the mild and the 
severe forms, while many of the most characteristic features of the affection only 
appear in the later period, and hence are entirely absent in the mildest cases, which 
never reach the second stage. 

The first stage usually begins abruptly with a rise of temperature, often pre- 
ceded by a chill. It is accompanied by severe supra-orbital headache, pains in 
the limbs and back, staggering gait, injected eyes, and flushed face. This stage 
lasts from two to four days, and is followed by a remission of all the symptoms, 
together with a fall in the temperature, which in mild cases continues until it 
reaches the normal on the third or fourth day. The flushed appearance and the pains 
disappear, and convalescence sets in without the appearance of any of the 
distinctive symptoms of the second stage ever appearing. These mild abortive 
cases terminating at the end of the first stage are very common, frequently 
forming over 60 per cent, of all cases, and although fairly characteristic during 
an epidemic, yet they may easily be overlooked when sporadic in their incidence, 
and yet form foci from which a serious epidemic may arise. 

A second stage appears in all but the mild abortive t^rpe just mentioned, the 



I 



YELLOW FEVER— CLINICAL DESCRIPTION 269 

marked remission of the symptoms only lasting from 6 to 12 hours, while 
the temperature, which will have only fallen to from 100° to 101°, rises once more, 
and remains high with only slight morning remissions. The headache and pains 
reappear, with tenderness in the epigastrium, nausea and vomiting of any fluid 
which may have been given to allay the tormenting thirst. The eyes are now 
less injected than in the first stage, but begin to show a tinge of jaundice, which 
gradually deepens, and may reach a very high degree, colouring the skin and the 
urine. The pulse becomes slow in proportion to the degree of pyrexia present, and 
may show irregularity and a warning dropping of a beat now and then. Sleep- 
lessness is a marked feature, with restlessness and delirium, and extreme prostra- 
tion as in a typhoid condition. Albumen will now be found in the urine in variable 
amount which tends to increase in severe cases ; at the same time the amount of fluid 
secreted diminishes, until there may be complete anuria. At this stage the character- 
istic haemorrhages from various parts of the body supervene, blood escaping from 
the mouth, nose, vagina, and from any abrasions of the skin, which may also show 
gangrenous patches. The dreaded black vomit and stools indicate similar oozing 
from the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, and the patient's condition appears 
well-nigh hopeless. Nevertheless, improvement may take place after the second 
stage has lasted three or four days, the temperature declines, often with copious 
sweating, the vomiting ceases, and sleep brings relief to the worn-out sufferer, 
who gradually passes into a speedy convalescence, carrying with his recovery an 
immunity to the terrible disease which had brought him to the brink of the grave. 
On the other hand, in fatal cases, rapid irregular breathing with cyanosis may 
end in respiratory failure ; sudden syncope may release the sufferer, or complete 
suppression of urine with coma may produce the final dissolution. 

In the rare, so-called siderant, cases the disease may be so severe as to cause 
death in two or three days during the first stage, without the appearance of either 
a remission or the typical symptoms of the later period, but such cases fortunately 
only form about 3 per cent, of the total. 

In describing the symptoms in detail, those of the primary stage will be 
dealt with first, then the temperature curve and pulse throughout the disease, 
and lastly the special conditions met with in the secondary stage : by which arrange- 
ment the general course will be closely followed, and a complete picture of the 
affection furnished. 

PRODROMAL SYMPTOMS. — Although in the majority of cases of yellow 
fever the onset is quite sudden, yet in a few there may be slight preceding malaise 
for from three days to a few hours. This consists of general indisposition, head- 
ache, sleeplessness or restlessness, chills, loss of appetite and constipation. The 
subjective sensation of bad smells has also been repeatedly recorded at this period. 

ONSET. — Usually the disease begins quite suddenly, with a rise of tem- 
perature, often preceded by chilliness, usually not amounting to an actual rigor 
and at the same time severe headache, and intense pains in the back and to a less 
extent in the limbs. 



270 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

GENERAL APPEARANCE. — Very early there is a striking alteration of 
the appearance, which is said to allow of the disease being recognized at a glance 
by one experienced in the disease. It consists of a briUiant injection of the con- 
junctiva (which is never yellow in the primary stage in spite of the name of the 
affection) and a flushing of the face, often amounting to an erythema, probably 
due to vaso-motor dilatation, and extending from the eyebrows down over the 
cheeks, so as to present a mask-like appearance. The lips also are congested, and 
later may show herpes. The tongue is furred in the centre, but red at the tip 
and edges, and later becomes dry and cracked. 

THE SKIN has a similar congested look in certain parts, especially the neck, 
chest and abdomen, but it is little marked on the extremities. It may present a 
erythematous or erysipelatous appearance, and more rarely somewhat resembles 
measles. Another very pecuhar condition of the skin in early yellow fever, to 
which some %vriters attach great diagnostic importance, is an erythema of the 
scrotum in the male, or the labia majora in the female, and around the anus in 
both sexes, which may, during the secondary stage, pass on into desquamation, 
the formation of bleeding fissures or ulcers, or even actual gangrene. Berenger- 
Feraud considers this erythema of the genital region as almost, if not quite, con- 
stant in yellow fever, and practically pathognomonic of the disease. 

SWEATS are common, especially a copious critical perspiration at the time 
of the remission in mild cases terminating at that period, but less marked in those 
in which the temperature does not fall to normal but passes on into the second 
stage. The secretion has a peculiar putrid odour. 

PAINS. — The initial severe frontal headache has already been mentioned, 
it is accompanied by pain in the eyes and often by photophobia. Pain in the lum- 
bar region is also very constant, and may be so marked as to resemble that of 
smaU-pox. Epigastric coUcky pain, greatly aggravated by pressure, considered to be 
pathognomonic by La Roche, appears very early with the fever, and may become 
unendurable. The extremities may also cause so much suffering as to amount to a 
hyperaesthesia of such a degree as to give its name to a special type of yellow fever. 
One of the most definite signs accompanying the appearance of the remission which 
divides the two stages, is the subsidence of these various sensory disturbances 
and of the mental disquietude, giving rise to a period of calm, which is most 
deceptive in severe cases, but may be followed by sleep, which has been absent 
throughout the first stage. 

TEMPERATURE CURVE.— With the onset of the disease the temperature 
rises rapidly to reach 103, 104 or more in about 24 hours, after which in very 
mild cases it declines slowly during the next day or two until the beginning of 
the remission about the third day, when the fall becomes much more rapid. 
In the mild type the temperature now reaches ncrmal, and remains there, so that 
in these cases the entire curve consists of a rapid rise to the highest point, fol- 



YELLOW FEVER— TEMPERATURE CURVES 



271 



lowed by a gradual decline becoming accelerated near its end. In the medium 
and severe types, however, the pyrexia only falls to from 100 to 101, as in Chart 
62 on the third day of the curve, and after an interval of 6 to 12 hours a 



Chart 62. 




Yellow fever, severe case, with well marked remission on the third day. (Mosquito infection ctuse of 

United States Commission.) 

further rise of temperature ushers in the secondary fever, which is very variable 
in degree and duration. In a somewhat mild, but tjrpical case, the pyrexia may 
attain this height of the primary rise, and it lasts but three to seven days, as in 
Chart 63, declining gradually at the end. In a severe case, such as is illustrated 

Chart 63. 




Yellow fever, moderately severe infection. (Mosquito infection case of United 

States Commission.) 

by Chart 62, the secondary fever may reach a high degree and present a continued 
typhoid-like character, lasting longer than in the medium cases, especially if any 



272 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

complications arise. Thus the temperature curve is very variable in its character 
and duration, the only characteristic feature being the remission, more or less 
marked, between the two stages of the disease. The charts are those of experi- 
mentally mosquito infected cases of the United States Commission. 

THE PULSE. — Of much greater constancy and diagnostic value is the course 
of the pulse in yellow fever. With the primary rise of temperature the rate of 
the heart beat is considerably accelerated, reaching from 100 to 120 per minute. 
From this point, however, the rate steadily dechnes, even when the temperature 
remains at a high level, so that it becomes relatively slow in proportion to the 
degree of pyrexia, being commonly only 70 to 80 with a temperature of 103° or 
more. During the remission the pulse rate falls still further to the normal point, 
or even below it, and during the secondary rise it does not increase again in pro- 
portion to the temperature, but, on the contrary, not rarely falls to between 50 
and 60, while some degree of fever remains as in Chart 63 on the fifth day of the 
disease. This disproportionately slow pulse is a very typical condition in the 
later stages of yellow fever, and as long as the regularity is maintained it is not 
a bad prognostic sign. If, however, intermittency and dropping of occasional 
beats appears, there is great danger of fatal syncope ensuing. After the 
temperature has finally fallen to normal in favourable cases a pulse rate of 50 
or even about 40 is not very rare. In the early stages the vessels are full, 
although the tension is low, and the latter character becomes accentuated as the 
disease progresses, so much so that it may become impossible to feel the beat at 
the wrist some hours before death. 

With the commencement of the second stage the deceptive calm of the remis- 
sion vanishes, the restlessness and pains reappear, the general condition becomes 
graver than before, and, in addition, some or all of the following symptoms become 
apparent. 

JAUNDICE. — It is only at this period that the jaundice after which the 
disease is named, makes its tardy appearance. It is very variable in degree, from a 
slight yellow tinge of the conjunctiva, gradually increasing up to an olive-green 
discoloration of the whole integument. It is thus entirely absent from the 
mildest abortive forms, and is not uniformly present in the recovering cases of 
medium intensity with a well-marked secondary stage. In fatal cases it is 
always present, although it is said that it may be more evident after death 
than during life. It commonly appears from seventy- two to ninety-six hours 
from the invasion, and after the disappearance of the primary erythema at 
the time of the remission, being evidence of the profound alteration of the blood 
brought about by the acute toxaemia of yellow fever. 

HAEMORRHAGES.— Closely related to, and following on the blood de- 
struction which produces the jaundice, with the decrease in the coagulability of 
the blood of that condition is the appearance of haemorrhages from various mucous 
membranes, and even from abrasions of the skin which add such a lurid setting 



YELLOW FEVER 273 

to the already sufficiently alarming picture of a severe attack of yellow fever. 
In the Lisbon outbreak in 1875, among 354 mild cases ending with the first stage, 
only 4 showed haemorrhages, but among 94 complete attacks ending in recovery, 
haemorrhages occurred in 85 per cent., or in a total of 18' 8 per cent, of all the 
non-fatal cases. Among 116 who died in the second stage, this symptom was noted 
in 76 per cent., but was absent in two very severe ones dying in the first stage. 
The form most frequently met with is that from the mucous membrane of the 
stomach, producing black vomit ; this occurs in about half the total number. Next 
come bleeding from the mouth and nose, from the intestines producing black 
stools, effusions into the sub-cutaneous tissues, and lastly oozing from abrasions 
or ulcerations of the skin. It may also arise from the conjunctiva, ears, uterus 
or vagina in the female, or from the urethra, glans or scrotum in the male. 
Although many cases do recover after the appearance of haemorrhages, yet it 
is always a serious symptom, and may be so profuse as by itself to bring about 
a fatal result. 

THE BLOOD in yellow fever shows a progressive diminution of the haemo- 
globin and to a less extent of the red corpuscles, reaching a high degree in 
severe cases. The number of the white corpuscles is very variable, Pothier having 
found from 4,660 to 20,000, the proportion of polynuclears being increased in the 
higher counts. The clotting power of the blood may be reduced. 

VOMITING. — Although sickness does occur during the first stage of yeUow 
fever, it is much more frequent and important in the second stage. The reap- 
pearance of the distressing thirst may be accompanied by a tendency for any 
fluids given to relieve it to be returned, or glairy mucous alone may be brought 
up, these forms being known as white vomit, for as yet it contains no blood. 

It is not until the second stage that the characteristic black vomit appears, 
varying in colour from a light grey up to coal black, in accordance with the amount 
of partially digested blood it contains, or if the bleeding be very copious, it may 
have an unaltered bright red appearance. It most frequently commences about 
the third or fourth day, but may only appear very shortly before death, or when 
not present during life, it may be found in the stomach post mortem. When 
not containing a large proportion of mucus, it separates on standing into an 
upper layer of an acid green or brown fluid often containing bile, and a black 
flocculent sediment, which consists of blood, which has been acted on by the 
hydrochloric acid in the stomach and partly converted into haematin. It may 
contain urea in some cases, and microscopically it shows altered red corpuscles 
and much epithelial debris, together with various sarcinae and other saprophytic 
organisms. When vomiting becomes incessant, the so-caUed gastric type of the 
disease is constituted. 

BOWELS. — At the time of the remission the constipation of the first stage 
may give way to a natural action of the bowels, or somewhat loose motions 
may be passed, especially in severe attacks. In the second period there may 

18 



274 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

occasionally be obstinate constipation, due to a paralysis of the intestines, but 
more frequently the bowels are loose, the stools being at first bilious in character, 
but later blood may appear in about 15 per cent, of cases, much more commonly 
in fatal ones. In this late stage the amount of bile in the stools is decreased, but 
black partially digested blood may give them a brownish colour. If 'diarrhoea is 
very marked, the algid condition of the so-called choleraic type of yellow 
fever is produced. 

THE URINE. — Regular measurement and examination of the urine for albumen 
is of the greatest diagnostic and prognostic value in yellow fever. In the first 
stage there may be a sensation of heat during its passage, while in severe cases 
it may early be diminished in quantity by acute congestion of the kidneys. At 
the remission the quantity increases, and in favourable cases may become so abund- 
ant as to constitute a critical phenomenon. During the second stage the secretion 
is diminished to a variable extent up to complete suppression, the extreme degree 
always proving fatal if it lasts for fifteen to twenty-four hours, this symptom is 
present in 24 per cent, of all fatal cases. An increased secretion during the 
later stages is a favourable sign. 

Its reaction is always acid in the first stage, and nearly always so in the second 
period, but may be neutral or alkaline during convalescence. Its specific gravity 
and colour are high in proportion to the diminution in quantity. It presents 
the high colour of febrile urine in the first stage, and in the second may show any 
shade from yellow through orange to black in accordance with the amount of bile 
pigment, with or without the addition of blood, derived from the kidneys or 
from the bladder or urethra. 

Of still greater importance is the presence of ALBUMEN, as the prognosis 
largely depends on the quantity present, moreover it has considerable diagnostic 
value. The date of its appearance is very variable, although it rarely appears on 
the first day (3 per cent.), becomes more common on the second day (18 per 
cent.), and is most usually first evident on the third and fourth (55 per cent.), 
appearing with diminishing frequency after the fifth day. It varies from a trace 
up to an amount sufficient to completely solidify the fluid on boiling. 

The quantity of urea excreted in the twenty-four hours is also reduced 
in yellow fever, and very markedly so in many of the more severe attacks, much in 
proportion to their severity. Granular and hyaline casts may be present at any 
period, and blood corpuscles or detritus in addition in the second stage. 

MORTALITY. — The death rate varies in different countries and epidemics. 
The extensive figures collected by Berenger-Feraud show it to average from 40 
to 45 per cent, in the West Indies, Mexican coast and West Africa, but to be only 
about 25 per cent, in the United States, Brazil and European countries. 

MORBID ANATOMY AND PATHOLOGY.— The chief changes found after 
death, in addition to the affections of the skin already described, are congestion 
of the brain, hyperaemia and haemorrhages into the pericardium and pleura. 



YELLOW FEVER— DIAGNOSIS 275 

mucous membranes of the stomach and intestines, the pelvis of the kidney, and 
sometimes also the bladder. In addition there is marked cloudy swelhng and 
fatty degeneration of the heart muscle, liver and kidney cells, as well as jaundice 
of all the tissues. These lesions are all evidence of an acute toxaemic process, 
especially affecting the blood. 

How they are brought about is not yet known, the numerous bacilli, to which 
they have been attributed, having been proved to be inconstant in their presence. 
That of SanareUi, the best authenticated of these, has been shown by Reed and 
his colleagues to be absent from the blood of most cases, and to be closely related 
to the organism of hog cholera. It has recently been shown that the virus in the 
blood of infected persons can pass through a fine porcelain filter, so that it 
is probably too small to be visible with the present powers of the microscope, 
for it has been abundantly proved that the disease can be conveyed by inoculating 
a small quantity of the blood of a patient suffering from the disease into another 
susceptible person. 

DIAGNOSIS. — In well marked cases of yeUow fever during the known pre- 
valence of the disease the diagnosis will be easy, especially when in the second 
stage. Mild sporadic cases, on the other hand, may present great difficulties, while 
on their recognition may depend the prevention of the development of an epidemic. 
Such mild cases are most likely to be mistaken for a malignant tertian malaria, 
especially if complicated by the haemoglobinuria of blackwater fever, the tem- 
perature curves being not at all dissimilar. The microscope is the surest means of 
differentiating between them, for the finding of malarial parasites, or, in black- 
water fever, an increase and pigmentation of the large mononuclears, will enable 
those diseases to be recognized. The pulse is also a very important guide, for 
it is nearly always rapid during the pyrexia of malarial fever, but soon becomes 
slowed down in yellow fever. Relapsing fever is said also to be easily mistaken 
for yellow fever, especially the bilious typhoid-hke fever, but here the pulse is always 
very rapid during pjrrexia ; while an examination of the blood will show 
both the presence of the spirillum and also a leucocytosis, instead of the low 
leucocyte count of yeUow fever. Further, in both the above diseases albumen 
is rarely found in the urine, except during haemoglobinuric complication, while 
it is present, as a rule, in yellow fever after the second day. Dengue is another 
disease for which mild cases of yellow fever are said to be mistaken, but here the 
pains are more marked in the limbs and joints, and albuminuria is again absent. 
Seven day fever in its early stages, with its rapid rise of temperature, followed 
by a gradual decline with a slow pulse, might easily simulate a very mild abortive 
yellow fever, should it be found to prevail in the areas affected by that disease, 
as is not very improbable considering its liking for hot coast towns. In countries 
where yellow fever is rarely seen a severe case might excusably be mistaken for 
acute yeUow atrophy. 

TREATMENT. — Like some other acute specific fevers, the number of drugs 
which have been extolled in the treatment of yellow fever is in inverse proportion to 



276 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

their actual value, for none of them can be relied on to control its course in any way. 
The first indications, on suspecting a patient to be suffering from this disease, is 
to place him in bed under a mosquito curtain, both to prevent the infection being 
spread by the Stegomyia, and to afford the sufferer the best chance of recovery ; 
for it is worthy of note that none of the United States commission's experimentally 
infected patients, except Dr. Lazear, died of the disease, all being kept at rest in 
bed from the appearance of the first signs. In the early stage a mild laxative, such 
as castor oil, is indicated, or if vomiting be present, 5 to 10 grains of calomel is 
preferable. The pyrexia should be controlled by cold spongings. Quinine appears 
to be of httle or no value in this disease, while such depressing drugs as antipyrin, 
etc., should be avoided on account of the weakness of the heart. Alkalies are 
very generally recommended in aU stages, Sternberg's method of giving hourly three 
tablespoonfuls of a mixture containing 75 grains of bicarbonate of soda and one- 
sixth of a grain of perchloride of mercury in one pint of iced water having been 
specially well reported on. Anderson advises small doses of carbolic acid being 
persisted with, together with bicarbonate of potassium, taken while effervescing. 
A fluid diet of small quantities of milk, to which lime water may be added 
with advantage, should be adopted, and if vomiting is still troublesome, rectal 
feeding may be used. The complication which most requires attention is haemor- 
rhage of various kinds, for which perchloride of iron, ergot and adrenaline are advised, 
while calcium chloride, controlled by repeated testing of the coagulability of the 
blood would be worthy of a careful trial. Turpentine might well be tried, see 
page 143. As soon as the urine shows any marked diminution, dry cupping and 
fomentations over the loins should be resorted to, in order to relieve the con- 
gestion of the kidneys and to try to avert complete suppression. Alcoholic 
stimulants must be given with care, as they decrease the clotting power of 
the blood. Opium should never be given if the urine is scanty or contains any 
albumen. 

THE ETIOLOGY OF YELLOW FEVER 

Before describing the mode of infection of yellow fever, the main factors 
influencing the incidence of the disease must be mentioned. It is less common in 
young children and old people than at intermediate ages. RACE exercises a great 
Influence, negroes in particular being relatively immune, even when living in the 
United States outside the endemic area. Europeans, who have long resided in 
an endemic area, acquire a relative immunity without apparently having actually 
suffered from even a mild attack, although such might very easily be overlooked 
if sporadic. Recently arrived Europeans are most susceptible to the disease. 
One attack gives very marked immunity, usually lasting for life. 

THE MAXIMUM SEASONAL INCIDENCE of the disease is the hottest time 
of the year, both in the tropics and in places in higher latitudes to which the in- 
fection may be carried, a mean temperature of 70° or over being most favourable, 



YELLOW FEVER— ETIOLOGY 277 

while frost immediately stops an outbreak. A high degree of moisture is also 
usually present, damp hot coast towns suffering especially. 

MODE OF INFECTION.— The great dread of yellow fever is largely due to the 
terrible nature of the disease, but not less to the mysterious manner in which it 
appears and spreads so indiscriminately. For this reason fierce discussions were 
carried on for several decades of the early part of the nineteenth century, between 
those who considered it to be contagious, and therefore advocated quarantine, 
and those who denied all infectious qualities, and violently opposed restrictions on 
trade with infected places attacked by the disease. The clothes and other effects 
have been generally considered up to quite recently to be frequent carriers of the 
infection to places at great distances, and to be able to originate outbreaks up 
to two or three years after contact with the germs of the disease. Hence 
rigorous disinfection of all things imported from an active yellow fever centre 
was thought to be most essential for the protection of importing countries within 
the limits of the probable extension of the disease. All these difficulties have 
been happily resolved by the recent experimental proof of the mosquito theory 
of infection, first propounded and ably advocated by Dr. C. Finlay of Havana, who 
produced by the bites of infected mosquitoes attacks which he believed to be mild 
yellow fever, and those who did not take the disease he claimed to have immunized 
against it. His conclusions, however, were not commonly accepted, as he failed 
to produce any case of tjrpical yellow fever in all its stages. 

In 1900 a United States Commission composed of Drs. Walter Reed, James 
Carroll, J. W. Lazear and A. Agramonte, under the leadership of the first named, 
were at work on yellow fever in Cuba, and finding that the bacillus described by 
Sanarelli was very inconstant, they began a series of experiments to test the truth 
of Finlay's mosquito hypothesis. Reed had been much struck by some careful 
observations of H. R. Carter, to the effect that after the appearance of a case of 
yellow fever secondary cases did not arise until two to three weeks later. Allowing 
for the incubation period of one to seven days, this left from nine to sixteen days 
for the development of the infection in such an intermediate host as a mosquito. 
In most of Finlay's experiments the insects had been fed on immune persons within 
less than that period of time after biting a yellow fever patient. The commission 
having decided to try infection experiments with culex mosquitoes furnished by 
Dr. Finlay, Dr. Carroll first submitted himself for the trial, and suffered from a 
very severe and characteristic attack of yellow fever in aU its stages, beginning two 
days after being bitten by a contaminated insect, which had been fed on yeUow 
fever patients up to twelve days before. Another mild attack was produced at 
the same time in a second subject, while shortly after Dr. Lazear contracted fatal 
yellow fever after allowing himself to be bitten by a mosquito while working in 
the infected hospital. As a result of these experiments the commission announced 
that the virus of yellow fever might be carried by the Stegomyia fasciatus, the 
variety used having been identified by Theobald under that name. 

In 1901 the same observers carried out further experiments on a site specially 



278 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

constructed for the purpose, and called Camp Lazear after their lamented colleague, 
who had sacrificed his hfe for science. Here two lines of work were carried out, 
firstly, a continuation of the mosquito inoculations, and, secondly, experiments to 
see if clothes and bedding soiled with yellow fever vomit and stools could convey 
the infection to those protected from mosquitoes. A number of United States 
soldiers volunteered for these dangerous experiments which furnished most con- 
clusive results, happily without further loss of life. Sleeping in a small mosquito- 
proof room with infected clothes for a number of successive nights always failed to 
infect, even when the bedding and clothes of the persons who had died of yeUow 
fever were actually used and worn. On the other hand, infection was repeatedly 
produced by even a single bite of the right kind of mosquito, fed at least twelve 
to fourteen days before on a yellow fever patient during the first three days 
of the disease. Further, the insects were proved to convey the disease up to fifty- 
seven days after being fed on an infected person, while it is possible that the time 
may be considerably longer, as one insect lived for seventy-one days. The 
incubation period varied from forty-one hours to five days seventeen hours, and 
averaged three days fifteen and a quarter hours in thirteen experimental cases. 
The disease was also produced by inoculating from ^ to 2 c.c. of blood from a 
yellow fever patient into a healthy one, the incubation then being rather shorter 
than in the mosquito borne infection. As yet no organism of the disease has 
been discovered in the blood, being probably ultra-microscopical. 

These results have been since repeatedly confirmed, while Marchoux and 
Simond appear to have succeeded in transmitting the infection through the young 
of an infected mosquito. Heating the blood to 55° for about ten minutes destroys 
the virus. No animal, not even monkeys, have yet been infected with yeUow fever. 
The distribution of the disease also coincides remarkably with that of the Stegomyia 
fasciata. It seems to be highly probable that the infection is only carried by the 
bites of this mosquito, although some instances of distant importation are diffi- 
cult to explain on such a hypothesis. Measures directed against the mosquito 
have had most beneficial results within the endemic area in reducing, or entirely 
preventing, the disease in places hitherto almost invariably attacked year by year, 
while the good effects of fumigating vessels from infected ports is explainable by 
possibly infected mosquitoes being thus killed. The accurate knowledge now 
obtained regarding the manner of spread of yeUow fever may be expected to lead 
to great restrictions of its incidence in the near future, for the disease is so much 
more dreaded than is malaria, that even comparatively ignorant people will be 
readily persuaded to render aid in destrojdng the dangerous insect pests which 
spread the infection. 

REFERENCES 

1891. B^renger-Feraud, L. J. B. Traite theorique and clinique de la Fievre Jaime. 
1898. Anderson, Izett. Yellow Fever in the West Indies. 

1886. Finlay, Ch. Yellow Fever ; its Transmission by Means of the Culex Mosqviito. Amer. 
Jour. Med. Sci., p. 395, and do. Sept., 1891. 



YELLOW FEVER 279 

1897. Sanarelli, G. A Lectvire on Yellow Fever, with a description of the B. icteroides. 
Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, p. 7'. 

1900. Carter, H. R. A Note on the Interval Between Infecting and Secondary Cases of 

Yellow Fever. New Orleans Med. and Surg. Magazine. 

1901. Reed, Walter, Carroll, J., and Agranionte, A. Experimental Yellow Fever. Trans. 

Assoc. Amer. Phys., Vol. XVI, p. 45 ; and Etiology of Yellow Fever. Jour. Amer. 
Assoc, Vol. I, p. 431, and Phil. Med. Joiir., 1900, p. 790. 
1905. Marchoux, E., and Simond, P. L. La transmission hereditaire du virus de la Fievre 
jaune chez la Stegomyia fasciata. Compt. Rend. Soc. de biol.. Vol. II, p. 259. 






r 



XIII. HEATSTROKE, SUNSTROKE, AND EFFECTS OF HEAT 

NOMENCLATURE AND SYNONYMS.— In the older Indian Army returns 
great confusion was caused by classing cases as " heat apoplexy " with cases of 
true apoplexy due to cerebral haemorrhage, etc. As in heatstroke there are no 
constant gross lesions of the brain the term " heat apoplexy " is a bad one and 
should not be used. " Insolation " and " Coup de Soleil " are other synonyms 
for these conditions. Norman Chevers discussed this question and concluded that 
the term heatstroke was least open to objection on account of many cases occurring 
without actual exposure to the sun's rays or even occasionally during the night . Sir P. 
Manson divides these cases into three classes. Firstly, heat exhaustion, characterized 
by syncope brought about by exposure to high temperatures. Secondly, sun- trau- 
matism, or sunstroke, a somewhat ill-defined class shading off from a first subdivision 
of syncopal heat exhaustion into a third of true heatstroke, and due to exposure 
to the direct rays of the sun, often with insufficient protection of the head and spine. 
It occurs either in the form of sudden syncopal attacks, which may be immediately 
fatal, as in cases of soldiers marching or fighting during great heat, or it is accom- 
panied by fever and loss of consciousness as in true heatstroke. Thirdly, true 
heatstroke, which he prefers to call by the old term " Siriasis " as not embodying 
any etiological theory. 

From an examination more especially of the Indian literature of the subject, 
it appears to me that there are two broadly different conditions embraced by these 
terms. First, those in which a syncopal attack occurs either as a result of exposure 
to the direct rays of the sun or to hard labour during great heat, such as in the stoke- 
holds of steamers in the terrible moist temperature of the Red Sea, or Persian Gulf 
more especially. In these cases there may be no marked elevation of the body 
temperature, and recovery nearly always takes place under suitable treatment, 
with or without some permanent mental injury, this occcuring particularly in 
those produced by the sun's rays. 

Secondly, we have the true heatstroke in which hyperpjn'exia, with acute 
congestion of the lungs, comes on very suddenly, usually without any actual expo- 
sure to the sun's rays. These cases only occur under very trying atmospherical 
conditions, due to either very excessive dry heat, or to somewhat lesser degrees of 
moist heat, which are more difficult to bear than much of higher dry temperatures. 
For these cases the old-established term heatstroke will be retained for reasons 
which will appear. In the first class it is faintness due to heart failure under 
special stress which takes place. In the second, it is essentially loss of consciousness 
due to hyperpyrexia, the precise cause of which is attributed by different writers 

280 



HEATSTROKE— HISTORY IN INDIA 281 

either to exposure to excessive heat, producing in some way not yet fully under- 
stood, failure of the heat regulating mechanism of the body, or to the toxins 
produced by a hypothetical microbe. 

HISTORY OF HEATSTROKE IN INDIA 

Annesley in 1828 describes fevers with affection of the brain occurring in 
Madras during very high temperatures and caused by either exposure to the sun 
or to a high range of temperature, especially among new arrivals. Twining in 
1835 describes a continued fever of the dry hot season, caused by exposure to the 
sun or violent exercise in hot weather, and treated it by venesection, cold douching 
and purging. Mackinnon in 1855 describes " ardent fever " as affecting especially 
new arrivals in the United Provinces during the dry hot months, and sailors on 
the Hugli river at Calcutta, with death from coma. He thought that bleeding 
was used too freely in the disease, that it was a fatal measure in alcoholic sub- 
jects and those due to direct exposure to the sun, but that cold affusions to the 
head had a wonderful efficacy. Francis Day ; in his elaborate epitome published 
in 1858 of the Indian literature of fevers, says that non-malarial fevers constitute 
46 per cent, of all fevers among Europeans in the Madras Presidency, but only 1 per 
cent, among natives. He classes them as " ephemerals," "common continued fever '* 
and the more severe " ardent continued," culminating in " insolation " caused by long 
continued tropical heat, and predisposed to by alcohol. Scriven, who describes 
the fevers of Calcutta in 1857, says that sun fever is of two kinds, one due to the 
direct action of the sun's rays, the second to prolonged heat in the shade producing 
coma, predisposed to most strongly by habitual drinking, and undoubtedly a 
fever. They occur only during high atmospheric temperatures and show 
hjrperpyrexia. He notes a tendency to a very slow pulse soon after the cessation 
of the pyrexia, one of 40 to 52 beats a minute being noted in 12 out of 28 cases, 
all of which recovered. In 1859 Thomas Longmore carefully described 16 
fatal cases of " heat-apoplexy " occurring at Barrackpore (fifteen miles North of 
Calcutta) in British troops between May 23 and June 14 of that year, although 
10 of them had not been exposed to the sun during the day of the attack. Three 
were attacked during or very soon after sentry work, but 5 were affected while 
in hospital for other diseases. Only 1 was intemperate. The hours of the attacks 
were, in 10 cases between 2 and 5 p.m., 5 more between 5 and 9.30 p.m., none 
during the night, and the remaining 1 at 11 a.m. in a man admitted for fever 
one hour before. He remarks " Whatever other causes may have been in operation 
to produce these attacks, it is impossible to avoid associating their particular appear- 
ance at these hours with elevated temperature. The thermometer generally indicated 
the maximum temperature of the twenty-four hours to be at about 4 p.m., but during 
most of the period in which these cases occurred the variation in the thermometric 
range was very shght from 2 p.m. to sunset. Even for some hours after sunset 
the temperature scarcely declined at all." Under meteorological notes he writes, 
" The weather throughout the period included in the return was excessively hot, 
sultry and oppressive. The highest temperature as indicated by a thermometer 



282 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

placed in one of the hospital wards, varied from 91 i° to 97 J°. About the time 7 of 
the cases occurred the thermometer was standing at 97°, or above, and above 95° 
F. at the time 12 of the cases occurred. The first heavy fall of rain on June 11, 
which reduced the air temperature, may be said to have put a stop to the cases 
of apoplexy, only one case occurring tliree days later." One third of the cases and 
haK the deaths took place in one barrack, which was the worst ventilated and 
punkered. He concludes, " It seems clear that prolonged nervous exhaustion, 
and a contaminated atmosphere, acted as predisposing causes in those attacked 
and that, in most of these instances, a certain increase of the average prevailing 
temperature sufficed to act as the exciting cause of development of the apoplectic 
symptoms." 

J. H. Butler also reported a number of cases of heatstroke at Mian 
Meer in June, 1859, occurring when " The weather was most sultry and oppressive 
— there was that close dense condition of atmosphere, synchronous with which 
attacks of apoplexy, hisolation or heat-apoplexy, where troops are crowded 
together, always more or less obtain. The thermometer ranged, between sunrise 
and sunset, from 94° to 102°. It has been repeatedly observed that, when the 
thermometer ranges beyond 98° in crowded barracks, cases of apoplexy almost 
invariably obtain. On the two days when the air temperature was highest, 
namely, that from 99° at 10 a.m. to 100° at 4 p.m. and from 98° to 102°, 16 and 7 
cases respectively were admitted. Heavy rain fell two days later and the outbreak 
ceased at once with the rapid faU of temperature. A few scattered cases occurred 
later on, also on very hot days, the rains at Mian Meer being very scanty. There 
was no fatigue or interference as a cause of these cases, but great overcrowding of 
the barracks, those which were most overcrowded, least ventilated, and worst provided 
with punkas, furnishing most cases." He concluded, " I believe that the proximate 
cause of this outbreak of sickness, was excessive heat of the atmosphere, acting 
upon the nervous system of the young and unseasoned soldier." 

These two outbreaks may be taken as tjrpical of the conditions under which 
heatstroke occurred in two places with such widely different cHmates as Barrackpore 
in Lower Bengal and IVIian Meer in the Punjab, yet in both they were intimately 
associated with unusual heat, and both terminated by heavy rain, which rapidly 
reduced the temperature. The occurrence of almost all the attacks at the hottest 
time of the twenty-four hours is noteworthy, as it is totally at variance with the 
emphatic statement of a recent supporter of the microbic theory of the disease. 

HEATSTROKE.— ETIOLOGY OF HEATSTROKE 

DEFINITION. — By heatstroke is meant a condition of hyperpyrexia and loss 
of consciousness occurring during exposure to excessive heat for a longer or shorter 
time, without necessarily subjection to the influence of the direct rays of the sun. 

It thus may take place in the stokehold of a steamer on account of the great 
heat from the furnaces, and this may even occur in a temperate cHmate, as recorded 
by L. F. O'Grady at Plymouth, although much more commonly it occurs in a hot 



HEATSTROKE— ETIOLOGY 283 

one. In tropical ports it frequently is found among sailors while resting in the 
afternoon in their sleeping quarters, especially in iron ships. People are occasion- 
ally struck down in the tropics during hbt stifling nights in India while in their beds, 
or in railway carriages during the heat of the day. 

It has, however, been suggested that the disease may reaUy be due to the 
toxins of a microbe and not simply to heat exhaustion. The main ground on 
which this theory has been built is a statement that the distribution of 
the affection in different countries shows no absolute relationship between the 
actual degree of heat experienced and the frequency of heatstroke cases, which 
may be rare in one country with very high maximum temperatures, and yet 
more common in another where extreme high degrees are never reached. It is also 
stated by Sambon that most of the cases occur at night, and not during the 
hottest part of the day. 

This argument, however, leaves out of account a most important factor, which 
has not received the attention it deserves. Any one with prolonged personal 
experience of different tropical chmates is aware of the fact that the exact degree 
of temperature is only one element in rendering a place more or less trying to the 
heat regulating mechanism. A second, and nearly equally important one, is the 
degree of moisture in the air. Thus a temperature of 100° F., with a high degree 
of moisture in the atmosphere, is much more unbearable than a temperature of 
110° F. with a very dry state of the air. 

The explanation of this well known fact is an obvious one. The principal 
factor in keeping the body heat down to the normal temperature, when the atmo- 
sphere is above that point, is the great amount of heat dissipated by the evapora- 
tion of the insensible perspiration, and in a hot dry atmosphere this evaporation 
takes place so rapidly that no visible perspiration appears on the skin, which feels 
dry. The great loss of fluid due to this insensible perspiration is evidenced by 
the thirst and scanty secretion of urine experienced under such conditions. On 
the other hand, in a less hot, but much moister, atmosphere the sweat caimot evapor- 
ate as readily as it is secreted by the skin, but pours from the surface in large drops, 
and the system experiences much greater difficulty in keeping down the body 
heat under such conditions. 

It will be clear from the foregoing that both the actual air temperature and 
the moisture it contains must be taken into consideration in estimating the liability 
of the climate of any given place to induce exhaustion of the heat regulating 
mechanism, and so possibly by itself to be actually the exciting cause of the 
hyperpyrexia of heatstroke. 

INDIA AS A FIELD FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF THE EFFECTS OF 
CLIMATE ON THE INCIDENCE OF HEATSTROKE.— In order to investigate the 
effects of different climatic conditions on the incidence of heatstroke it is necessary to 
obtain data of both the occurrence of cases, and the meteorological records at the same 
time, in a number of places, presenting different types of cHmates. India presents 
pecuUarly favourable circumstances for such an inquiry owing to both the incidence 



284 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

of heatstroke in the British Army and the fact that meteorological data are available 
for a large number of places. Moreover, India presents a series of different climates, 
probably unsurpassed in number in an equal area in any other part of the world. 
They vary from the temperate climate of the hill stations on the one hand, up to 
the extreme dry heat of the Punjab and the Sind and the notoriously trying and very 
damp heat of Lower Bengal, Madras and Bombay. In aU parts of this country Brit- 
ish troops are stationed. Through the kindness of the officers of the Royal Army 
Medical Corps I have been able to obtain records of the exact dates of occurrence 
of all the heatstroke cases in nearly every complete British regiment for the years 
1904, 1905 and 1906 ; again, through the kindness of C. W. Peake, Meteorologist, 
Calcutta, the temperatures, moisture, rainfall and wind records of the same places 
on the same dates have been put in my hands. Further, I have been able to study 
all the cases which have occurred in the European Hospital, Calcutta, during 
several years. The results of an analysis of this material throw much light on the 
subject ; they also disprove, as far as India is concerned, nearly every statement on 
which the theory that heat is the cause of the affection has been disputed by the 
microbe theorists. Tables have been worked out separately showing the fatal 
cases and the total cases, as the former are likely to be somewhat more accurate 
than the latter, which probably include a few cases of other diseases wrongly 
diagnosed as heatstroke. 

THE MONTHLY INCIDENCE OF HEATSTROKE.— Table XXVI, Part I, shows 
the monthly incidence of 60 fatal cases of heatstroke in India. Every single case 
occurred during the hot months from May to September, while three-quarters of 
them took place during the two hottest months of the year, namely, June and 
July. No less than half the cases occurred during the excessively hot month of 
June, while another quarter took place in the next hottest month, namely, July. 
Moreover, the maximum occurrence in different parts of India is in the hottest 
months. Thus nearly all the cases which were recorded in July took place in the 
Punjab, where the monsoon is scanty, and July is the hottest month. On the 
other hand, in the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh, and in the Central Pro- 
vinces, the great majority of the cases occurred in June, the hottest month there, 
owing to the south-west monsoon setting in by July in those parts. 

Table XXVI, Part II, shows similar data for all the cases returned as heatstroke. 
It shows the same distribution in a slightly less pronounced manner. Thus 95 
per cent, of the cases were returned in the hot months of from May to September, 
and 2 per cent, more in the next hottest month of April. No less than 72 per 
cent, occurred in June and July, the great majority of the cases in the latter month 
again being recorded in the nearly monsoonless Punjab. Most of the few cases 
returned in the remaining months were in Madras and Bombay, where there is no 
really cold weather, and it may be very hot at almost any time of the year. Further 
cases of malaria with cerebral symptoms are sometimes mistaken for heatstroke, 
while in a few of the returns the distinction between heatstroke and those in which 
actual exposure to the direct rays of the sun, which should therefore be classed 



HEATSTROKE— MONTHLY INCIDENCE 



285 



as " sunstroke," does not appear to have always been carefully made, and thus 
the return of such a small number as 3 per cent, of the cases in other than the 
hottest months of the year can be readily accounted for. 

The data for the last three available years just given are practically identical 
with an analysis of all the cases in the British Army in India for the years 1890-5, 
which are tabulated in the Report of the Sanitary Commissioner with the Govern- 
ment of India for the year 1897, in discussing which that officer concluded : "It 
is a matter of common knowledge that heat, sufficient in degree and properly apphed, 
can disintegrate the tissues and even cause death without the necessary inter- 
vention of any microbe. WTien it is found, therefore, that heatstroke is commonest 
in the three hottest months and in the geographical groups where heat is fiercest, it 
seems not unlikely that heat pure and simple is the chief factor, other than those 
supplied by the patient, in producing the stroke.^^ 

TABLE XXVI.— MONTHLY INCIDENCE OF HEAT-STROKE IN INDIA. 





s 
c 
«s 


1 








i 

3 
t-5 


>-> 


43 
< 


1 

1 

GQ 


October. 


i 
1 


J 

i 

Q 




Part I. — Fatai. Cases. 
























Total 


— 


— 


— 


— 


' 


31 


15 


4 


3 


-^ 





— 


60 


Part II. — ^Totax Cases. 




























Punjab 


— 


— 


— 


— 


5 


73 


122 


24 


3 


— 


— 


— 


227 


United Provinces andBengal 


— 


— 


3 


2 


11 


55 


22 


17 


10 


1 


— 


— 


121 


Central India .... 


— 


— 


— 


1 


10 


16 


1 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


28 


Bombaj- 


— 


— 


2 


4 


7 


9 


7 


4 


— 


1 


1 


1 


36 


Madras 


— 


1 


1 


1 


2 


3 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


2 


10 


Burma 


— 


— 


— 


— 


2 


— 


— 


— 


13 


2 


1 


3 


2 


Total 





1 


6 


8 


37 


156 


152 


45 


424 



DEGREES OF HEAT AND MOISTURE ASSOCIATED WITH HEATSTROKE.— 
Next we may consider the moisture and temperature of the air at the time of the 
occurrence of heatstroke cases. The data available are the daily maximum, mini- 
mum and mean temperatures, and the percentage of saturation of the air ^^-ith 
moisture. The strength and direction of the wind have been also studied, but, 
except that most cases occurred on calm days, they proved to be of less importance 
than the other factors. As the diurnal variation of the temperature in the hot 
weather in the parts of India where most cases of heatstroke occur, averages about 
20° F., while it is prolonged exposure to a temperature approaching blood heat 
rather than a shorter time in very excessive temperatures which is most exhaust- 
ing to the human system, the daily mean temperature appears to be the most 
useful datum to study. The cases have, therefore, been classed into groups accord- 
ing to the mean temperature of the twenty-four hours on which they took place, 



286 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



and further sub-divided as regards the percentage of saturation of the air with 
moisture, the results are shown in Table XXVII. The fatal cases have also been 
separately classed to show the maximum temperature of the day on which they 
occurred, as this will be very near to the actual air temperature when the great 
majority of the attacks happened, because, as is shown in Table XXVIII, as a matter 
of fact three-fourths of the patients were admitted to hospital during the hottest 
period of the twenty-four hours. As a glance at the table shows that heatstroke 
occurs at a much lower mean air temperature when a high degree of moisture ia 
present than when the air is dry, the percentage of cases under each 10° of mois- 
ture has been worked out for the different mean temperature periods shown in 
the table in order to bring out this important point more clearly. 



TABLE XXVII.— DEGREES OF TEMPERATURE AND MOISTURE ASSOCIATED 

WITH HEAT-STROKE. 





Percentage 


OF Moisture in 


THE Air. 










—31 


31-40 


41-50 


51-60 61-70 


71-80 


81-90 


+ 90 


Total. 


Percentage. 


Part I. — Fatai. Cases. 








1 












r -95 . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


1 


3 


3 


— 


7 


11-3 


Maximum 


95-99 . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


1 


2 


1 


— 


4 


6-5 


air 


100-103 . 


— 


1 


2 


— 


8 


1 


— 


— 


12 


i 19-4 


tempera- 


104-108 . 


2 


2 


1 


5 


4 


2 


— 


— 


16 


25-4 


tures. ^ + 108 


1 


7 


9 


2 


4 


— 


— 


— 


23 


I 37-3 


f -85 . 


— 


— 


— 


— 




— 


1 


— 


1 


14 


Mean air 85-89 . 


— 




— 


— 


1 


4 


2 


— 


7 


i 11-3 


tempera- "| 90-93 . 


— 


— 


— 


1 


6 


3 


1 


— 


11 


! 180 


tures. 94-98 . 


2 


5 


5 


3 


8 


1 


— 


— 


24 


i 38-7 


-1-98 . 


1 


4 


8 


3 3 


— 


— 


— 


19 


30-6 



Part II. — Total Cases. 






















r -89 . 




— 


1 


1 


5 


3 


2 


3 


15 


41 


Mean air 85-85 . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


6 


11 


13 


1 


31 


8-6 


tempera- - 90-93 . 

tures. 94-98 . 

^ -f98 . 


3 


1 


4 


5 


20 


14 


4 


1 


52 


14-3 


12 


27 


26 


29 


64 


16 


1 


— 


175 


48-2 


8 


20 


30 


15 


17 


— 


— 


— 


90 


24-7 


Percentage 


6-3 


13-2 


16-8 


13-8 


39-9 


121 


5-5 


1-4 


— 


— 


f -85 . 


_ 





2 


2 


4 


7 


10 


60 


_ 





Mean air 


85-89 . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


5 


25 


65 


20 


— 


— 


tempera- - 


90-93 . 


13 


2 


7 


10 


18 


31 


20 


20 


— 


— 


tures. 


94-98 . 


52 


56 


42 


58 


57 


36 


5 


— 


— 


— 


I -1-98 . 


35 


42 


49 


30 


15 


— 


— 


— 




— 



Taking first the fatal cases, we find that only 1 occurred with a mean tempera- 
ture below 85°, and 7 more with one between 85° and 89° F. In all but one of 
these the moisture was over 70 per cent, of saturation, a very damp atmosphere, 



HEATSTROKE— TEMPERATURE AND MOISTURE 287 

which must greatly interfere with the free evaporation of perspiration, by means 
of which the body is so greatly cooled in tropical climates. A mean temperatm*© 
of 85° to 89° F. corresponds with ai maximum one of about 95° to 99°, or about 
blood heat, so that fatal cases of heatstroke scarcely ever occur until a maximum 
air temperature of about the human body is reached, and then only when a high 
degree of moisture is also present. 

When the maximum temperature reaches 100° to 103° heatstroke is not 
uncommon with a percentage of moisture between 60 and 70, but only three 
cases occm-red with still drier atmospheres of that degree of heat, while with the 
corresponding mean temperature of 90° to 93° only one case took place with a 
degree of moisture below 61 per cent, of saturation. When, however, the mean 
temperature reaches between 94° and 98°, and the maximum between 104° and 108°, 
then heat-stroke cases occur with a drier atmosphere, although they are still most 
frequent with over 50 per cent, of moisture. With yet higher temperatures of over 
98° mean, or 108° maximum, heatstroke cases are comparatively frequent with dry 
atmospheres, such as are indicated by 30 to 50 per cent, of moisture. Fortunately 
such high temperatures do not occur combined with a moist atmosphere in places 
in India where European troops are stationed. Possibly they might be met with 
in the stokeholds of ships in such very damp hot climates as that of the Red Sea,, 
where heatstroke is so common, and observations on the moisture, as well as the 
temperature, under such conditions, would be of interest. 

The figures in the second part of Table XXVTI of the total number of 363 cases 
of heatstroke in the British Army in India show results exactly parallel to those 
of the fatal cases just detailed. In only 4 per cent, was the mean temperature 
below 85° F., and in several of these the reading was due to a low minimum tem- 
perature produced by heavy rain or a dust storm occurring after the attack had 
ensued, the maximum temperature at the time of the onset of the hyperpyrexia 
having been about blood heat or higher. In 8'6 per cent, the mean temperature 
was between 85° and 89°, almost every case happening with a mean daily tem- 
perature under 90° being associated with an air moisture of over 60 per cent. 
In the remaining 87 per cent, of the cases the mean temperature was 90° or more, 
and the maximum one over blood heat, while in 73 per cent, of the total cases 
the mean temperature was 94° or more, which is within a very few degrees of the 
normal body temperature, the long continuance of which, often for days together, 
must put a very great strain on the cooling mechanism of the human system. 

The last part of Table XXVII shows the percentage of cases occurring at differ- 
ent mean temperatures, classed under each 10° of moisture in the air, brings out 
well the importance of the last factor. Thus, with over 90 per cent, of moisture. 
3 out of the 5 cases took place with a mean temperature of under 85°, while 
with from 81 to 90 per cent, of moisture, three-fourths of the cases took place 
with a mean temperature not exceeding 89°. On the other hand, with a 
moisture between, 61 and 70, 72 per cent, of the cases occurred at a mean 
temperature of over 94°, and with a moisture of only from 40 to 50, just 
half the cases took place with a mean temperature of over 98°. With still drier 



288 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

atmospheres the proportion at different temperatures remains about the same, 
as the hjrperpyrexia is now no longer largely dependent on interference with the 
free evaporation of sweat, but can be produced by such great degrees of heat 
without the aid of that factor. 

We may conclude, then, from this study of the combined effects of heat and 
moisture on the incidence of heatstroke cases, that the occurrence of the disease 
may readily be explained, on purely physiological grounds, as a result of either 
very excessive degrees of mean heat combined with a dry atmosphere, namely, those 
of about body temperature or above that point, or of somewhat less excessive 
temperatures combined with such considerable percentage of moisture in the air 
as will materially interfere with the cooling effect naturally produced by the free 
evaporation of perspiration from the body surface. Thus by taking into account 
the degree of saturation of the air with moisture as well as the actual temperature, 
the incidence of heatstroke is simply accounted for without falling back on the 
hjrpothesis of some undiscovered microbe as its exciting factor. 

HOUR OF THE ATTACK. — There is another point of view from which this 
subject may be considered. If heatstroke is due to some hypothetical microbe 
it might reasonably be expected that the time of the sudden onset of hyperpyrexia 
and unconsciousness would be fairly uniformly distributed over the twenty-four 
hours. If, on the other hand, the affection is due to the physiological effects of 
heat, then the majority of the attacks should take place during the hottest portion 
of the day. Table XXVIII gives the data of these cases in which the hour of onset or 
admission to hospital was noted in the present series. It appears from this that 
almost exactly three-quarters were admitted between noon and 8 p.m., while only 

TABLE XXVIII.— HOUR OF ONSET OF HEATSTROKE. 



Noon to 4 p.m. . 
4 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
8 p.m. to midnight 
Midnight to 4 a.m. 
4 a.m. to 8 a.m. 
8 a.m. to noon . 



Cases. 


Percentage. 


22 

24 

5 



7 
4 


35-5] 
38-7 -74-2 

8-1 

00 
11-3 25-8 

6-4 



8 per cent, occurred between 8 p.m. and 4 a.m. The remaining 18 per cent, were 
admitted between 4 a.m. and noon, mostly in the early morning, having been 
attacked during the night, as occasionally occurs. The great preponderance of cases 
in the hot afternoon is thus very marked, and is in accordance with a physiological 
exciting factor due to the heat and against the microbic theory, and disproves 
the statements of its supporters as regards India. 

In my Calcutta series the exact hour of the onset of the symptoms was noted 
in 13 cases. In no less than 9 of these the attack occurred between 3 p.m. and 



HEATSTROKE, SUNSTROKE, AND EFFECTS OF HEAT 289 

5 p.m., while in 12 out of the 13 it took place between 1 p.m. and 8p.m., and in the 
remaining case at 10 p.m. Longmore's experience already quoted is also the same. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES. — Although heat modified by the moisture in the 
air is thus seen to be the most probable exciting factor in the disease, it is doubt- 
less greatly aided by predisposing causes in the persons of those who succumb 
to the excessive tax on their heat regulating mechanism. This is well recognized 
by the old Indian writers — ^Norman Chevers, for example, enumerating no less 
than twenty-four conditions which predispose to heatstroke in individuals by 
lowering the resisting powers or inducing exhaustion of the nervous system. Of 
these it is generally agreed that ALCOHOL is by far the most common and important. 
In the tables of cases sent out by me a special column was allotted for information 
on this point and an analysis of the data suppHed has furnished the following 
results. In only 98 cases was the information available. Of these 45 were stated 
to be temperate, including 6 total abstainers ; 25 were moderate drinkers, while 
the remaining 22, or nearly one-fourth of the total number, were decidedly alco- 
hoUc. Moreover, no less than one-third of the cases of heatstroke in alcoholic 
subjects proved fatal, or about double the proportion of the whole series. It appears, 
then, that alcohol both predisposes markedly to the heatstroke and greatly increases 
the gravity of the cases. 

Any debilitating illness may act as a predisposing cause, as is shown by the 
not uncommon occurrence of attacks in patients already in hospital for some other 
affection, as in Longmore's cases. 

SEX AND AGE. — The returns being from the army give no information as 
to the prevalence of the disease in the different sexes. In the Calcutta European 
Hospital, however, for the least three years 14 cases have been admitted, all among 
males. This is partly due to a marked excess of male immigrants, and to the 
occurrence of most of the cases among sailors. 

The age of nearly 90 per cent, of the army cases was between 21 
and 30 years, owing to the great preponderance of men of this decade in the 
regiments. The largest proportion of cases took place during the first year of 
service in India, but nearly as many occurred in each of the next two years in 
the country. In Calcutta, however, 6 out of 13 cases were in men of over forty 
years of age, which gives a truer idea of the age incidence of heatstroke than the 
army returns. Chevers stated that although it is true that most of the cases occur 
in young unseasoned men, yet this is largely due to their want of prudence, and 
long residence in the tropics does not lessen the predisposition to the disease. It 
is well known that middle-aged, rather corpulent and often alcoholic non-com- 
missioned officers of the army are very prone to suffer from heatstroke. 

DISTRIBUTION OF HEATSTROKE CASES IN INDIA.— It has abeady been 
mentioned that most of the cases in the British army occur in the hottest pro- 
vinces and during the hottest months. Sambon, however, states that : "Its endemic 
regions are strictly Umited. Like yellow fever it prevails only in the lowest regions 

19 



290 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

or coast districts, or in the valleys of great rivers." He further states that it is 
found in the great low plains drained by the Ganges and Indus, but is unknown 
on the plateaus. He concludes that its distribution is capricious and irrespective 
of heat. As Sir Patrick Manson has adopted these statements in his widely read 
work on tropical diseases, and further remarks that the disease is never found at a 
height above the relatively low altitude of 600 feet, it will be worth testing them 
in the Hght of the data of the three years' records I have collected from European 
troops in India. 

In the first place, out of 424 cases (including some for which meteorological 
data were not available) in my hsts I find that only 4 occurred in Bombay 
and 7 in Madras in the three years, in spite of full regiments being quartered in 
those places. They are also uncommon in soldiers in Calcutta, so that the dis- 
ease is very far from being specially prevalent on the low coast towns of India, 
as yeUow fever is in America. It is true that the majority of the cases in the 
military returns occur in the huge areas drained by the Ganges and Indus rivers, 
because these are both the hottest parts of India and those in which the great 
bulk of the British army is stationed. To compare these dry, hot areas with the 
damp coast-Hne from the chmatic point of view is, however, absurd ; for the influ- 
ence of these rivers on the cHmate of the enormous areas they drain may well be 
compared to the cooUng and damping effect of the evaporation of one drop of 
water in a large and highly heated hothouse. Moreover, cases occur in stations 
many miles distant from the large rivers of the United Provinces and Punjab, while 
they are very rare in the much damper Brahmaputra valley of Assam, which does 
not show such high temperatures as the Ganges and Indus plains. 

ELEVATION. — The statement that cases do not occur on the plateaus of 
India or above a height of 600 feet is equally untrue. They are very common at 
Rawal Pindi, at a height of over 1,500 feet, a number of cases having been seen 
by me there in the hot weather of 1894. Again, I have received returns from 
six stations, each with a complete British regiment, in the plateau of Central India 
and the Central Provinces, and every one of them returned a number of cases of 
heatstroke during the last three years, 14 having occurred at the one station of Kamp- 
tee, the cantonment of Nagpur. In fact, cases were reported from five stations at 
over 1,500 feet, but with very hot cUmates, while no less than 71 per cent of the 
424 cases occurred at over 600 feet elevation above the sea. 

It has also been stated that heatstroke does not occur in some very hot places 
with temperatures up to 120° or over, such as on the north-west frontier of India. 
This is true of the British army returns for the very good reason that British 
troops are not ordinarily stationed at such places. ^^Tien, however, they have to 
be sent there in war time, cases of the disease are very prevalent among them. 
Thus, in 1898, European troops were sent to Bunnu, 120 miles west of the Indus, 
during the hottest season at the end of June, and numerous cases of heatstroke, 
many of them fatal, occurred, some of which I saw myself. Several of them 
were in men while in camp and not undergoing severe fatigue. 



HEATSTROKE, DISTRIBUTION IN RELATION TO HEAT WAVES 291 

To sum up, with regard to the distribution of heatstroke in India, the principal 
statements on which Sambon and.Manson rely in support of their theory that 
the disease is not due to heat, but to a hypothetical microbe, are either untrue 
or can be quite well explained by the simple heat theory of the causation of the 
disease. 

THE DISTRIBUTION OF HEATSTROKE CASES IN RELATION TO HEAT 
WAVES. — I have also worked out the daily distribution for each station of all 
the cases in the two months of June and July, during which 72 per cent, of the 
total occurred, in relationship to the temperature and moisture conditions for three 
years. The following are the data of those places and provinces where an unusu- 
ally large number of cases of heatstroke occurred. 

In 1904, in the very hot station of Multan, 8 cases of heatstroke occurred 
between June 9 and 21. During this period the mean temperature varied from 97° 
to 102° and the maximum from 107° to 114°, and the moisture from 42 to 67 per 
cent, of saturation. On June 22 the maximum temperature suddenly declined 
to 104° and remained at about that point, and at once the cases of heatstroke 
ceased. The only other cases were one in July and one in August, both with 
specially high temperature or moisture. 

1905 was an exceptionally hot year, and also showed an exceptionally large 
number of heatstroke cases. The largest number of cases was recorded at Pesha- 
war in the extreme north-west corner of India, as far from the sea-coast as possible. 
The cases numbered 73, and all but one of them occurred between June 24 and 
July 13, during an exceptionally hot spell of weather. The mean temperature 
during this time varied from 94° to 100° and the maximum from 103° to 117°, 
having reached 110° or over, in thirteen out of the twenty days. The largest 
number of cases occurred on days when there was also a high percentage of 
moisture in the air, namely over 60 per cent, of saturation, and the next greatest 
prevalence when that figure was between 50 and 60 per cent. Moreover, the 
complete and sudden cessation of this terrible outbreak occurred on the very day 
after the sudden fall of 11° in the mean temperature and of 17° in the maximum 
daily reading to 83° and 90° F. respectively, and no further case occurred during 
the last eighteen days of July. A more complete example of the very close relation- 
ship between a heat wave and a severe outbreak of heatstroke it would be difficult 
to imagine. 

Once more, during the same heat wave, heatstroke cases were very prevalent 
both in the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh and also at Calcutta in Lower 
Bengal. That in the United Provinces is of special interest, as returns have been 
received from a number of stations over an area of several hundred miles in which 
the temperature conditions were very uniform. An analysis of the returns shows 
a marked tendency for cases to occur in widely separated places on the very same 
days, which were also those of specially high temperatures. For example, on 
June 23 the highest mean temperature of the year at Cawnpore (which is near 
the centre of this province) was registered, namely 101'7°, the maximum being 



292 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

110'5°. On that day no less than 12 cases of heatstroke occurred, this being by 
far the largest number in the province on any one day during the three years' 
records. What is still more striking is the fact that they were spread over no 
less than six different stations in the province : truly a remarkable coincidence 
if they were of microbic origin. Here, again, the decline of the cases was sudden 
and coincided with a marked fall in temperature, although this happened at an 
earher date than that at Peshawar on account of the rains breaking sooner in 
the United Provinces. 

Yet again, in the same hot year a well-marked group of cases occurred in the 
stations in the south-east of the Punjab, from July 26 to 30, also repeatedly affect- 
ing two or more places on the same days. On the previous twelve days only one 
case had been reported in those stations in the Punjab of which I possess returns, 
yet 17 cases occurred during these five days, when the mean temperature at the 
most affected station varied from 94° to 98° and the maximum from 103° to 109° 
F. This outburst also, ceased immediately after a sudden fall of the mean tempera- 
ture to 88° and the maximum to 94°. 

In 1906 there was an outbreak in the Punjab at the end of June coinciding with 
a mean temperature of from 97° to 102° and a maximum of from 107° to 112°, and 
a number of cases occurred in the same province during July under very similar tem- 
perature conditions. The next .greatest prevalence was in the United Provinces 
during the third week in June, when the mean temperature was from 96° to 99° and 
the maximum from 103° to 1 10°. As soon as the temperature feU rapidly to 87° mean 
and 91° maximum the cases ceased, except for one on a day when the moisture 
showed the very high figure of 83 per cent, of saturation with a mean temperature 
of 88°. This case is of importance, as it is a type of the exceptional instances in 
which one or two cases occur for a day or two after a marked fall in the tempera- 
ture conditions. Such a decline is generally brought about by a heavy fall of rain, 
or less commonly by a dust storm without much actual rainfall. As a result of 
the rain the air becomes saturated with moisture, and it may be followed on the 
cessation of the rain by an extremely trying damp muggy heat, such as I have 
shown often coincides with heatstroke, in spite of the temperature not being ex- 
tremely high. In this way the occurrence of these lagging cases is readily explained 
on physiological grounds, so that they lend no support to the microbic theory of 
the causation of heatstroke. 

As the above instances include all those in my returns for the three years 
dealt with in which any considerable number of cases occurred at about the same 
time in any one place or province of India, it may confidently be asserted that 
there is a most marked relationship between heat waves and the outbreak of heat- 
stroke throughout this vast country, the degree of moisture in the air being also 
taken into account, and aU these outbreaks are, therefore, readily explainable on the 
hypothesis that heat is the exciting cause of the disease. The statement of Sam- 
bon and Manson that heatstroke cases occur quite capriciously and that they are 
independent of the temperature conditions is thus seen to be totally untrue as 
regards the prevalence of the disease in India. I am also informed by Professor 



HEATSTROKE— CLINICAL DESCRIPTION 293 

Osier that an exactly similar relationship between heatstroke and heatwaves exists 
in the United States, so that it is probably true of all parts of the world. 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION OF HEATSTROKE 

PREMONITORY SYMPTOMS.— The warning symptoms which sometimes 
precede the actual loss of consciousness are very important, as the prognosis of 
the case is good in proportion to the rapidity with which the condition is detected 
and adequately treated. The tendency of heatstroke to supervene on other debili- 
tating illnesses, sometimes in people already in hospital, has already been men- 
tioned. In 5 of Longmore's 16 cases there had been previous fever, but in the 
other 11 the attack was a sudden one. Of my 14 Calcutta cases in 1 there had 
been fever for seven days before the attack : in 3 the patient had been feeling 
seedy for from three to seven days : in 1 he had felt unweU the evening before, 
and in 4 had been feeling out of sorts or shghtly feverish during the morning only 
of the attack. The last are the most important, as in " heatstroke weather " — 
as Che vers terms the very hot oppressive days on which alone heatstroke cases 
occur in Calcutta — the careful watching of any persons who feel out of sorts would 
enable many of these cases to be detected on the first onset of serious symptoms, 
when treatment will probably be always attended with a successful result. Head- 
ache is another fairly common premonitory symptom, which was noted in three 
of my cases, and is mentioned by other writers, together with listlessness, drowsi- 
ness, and, as Longmore first pointed out, a desire to micturate freely, which he 
suggests may be " a metastasis of function to the urinary apparatus on the secre- 
tion of the skin being diminished." This warning sign is especially noteworthy, 
as it points to an actually increased secretion of urine (Longmore having drawn 
off much urine from the bladder of a recovering case) such as would naturally 
coincide with the sudden cessation of active sweating, which is such a marked 
feature of heatstroke cases with their hot, burning and absolutely dry skins. 

THE ONSET OF THE ATTACK.— The essential symptom of the developed 
attack is hyperpyrexia with the unconsciousness which always accompanies great 
elevations of the body temperature. The attack may be immediately preceded by 
faintness, sense of great oppression, sudden pain in the head or chest and vertigo. 
On examination during the fully developed attack the most noteworthy feature 
is the intense heat of the skin and its dryness, with no trace of perspiration, even 
in the sweat producing damp temperature of Calcutta heatstroke weather. In 
one Calcutta case there was a definite history of the hyperpyrexia and uncon- 
sciousness shortly following the cessation of free perspiration. This points to a 
cessation of the functions of the skin as an essential factor in the production 
of the hyperpyrexia, which in turn will by itself fully explain the other symptoms 
met with without the assumption of any microbe-produced toxin. 

THE PULSE is rapid, feeble in force, and may be irregular or excited in its 
action. 



294 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE RESPIRATIONS are also increased in frequency, usually to a very marked 
extent, and of a gasping or often a stertorous character. In bad cases marked cyanosis 
of the face and extremities ensues, and is of very bad prognostic significance. On 
auscultating the lungs extensive moist sounds are heard, indicating a rapid oedema 
of the organ and secretion of fluid into the bronchial tubes, which appears to be 
an important element in producing a fatal termination. This may be so marked 
and rapid that it appears to me to be largely of the nature of a vicarious secretion 
of fluid in the place of the suppressed perspiration, and thus a parallel phenomenon 
with the increased secretion of urine. 

BOWELS. — Motions are frequently passed involuntarily in bed, and this 
may occur in cases which eventually recover. This appears to be due to a loss 
of control of the higher centres over those in the lumbar cord with the onset of 
unconsciousness . 

SICKNESS also occurs either in an early stage or during more or less complete 
recovery of consciousness. 

THE PUPILS are usually contracted, but in two Calcutta cases, which recovered, 
they were dilated. 

RIGIDITY OF MUSCLES OR CONVULSIONS not uncommonly occur and 
when marked indicate a bad prognosis. I have, however, seen a condition of 
tetany ensue with a fall in the temperature in a recovering case. 

THE HYPERPYREXIA AND UNCONSCIOUSNESS are the most constant 
and important symptoms. In the Calcutta cases 110° F. was reached in 1 fatal 
oase : 109° in 3, of which 2 recovered : 108° in 4, with 2 recoveries : 107° 
in 2, without recovery : 1066° and 106° in 1 each with only 1 death, in which 
it was probably higher before admission to hospital. The temperatures were 
taken in the rectum, at the time of admission, and some may have been higher 
at an earlier hour. 

The most striking thing about these data is the number of recoveries from 
hyperpyrexia up to 109° and 108° F. If these sudden excessive temperatures are due 
to the toxin of a microbe it must be of an extremely virulent nature. Yet it must 
suddenly produce these high temperatures, usually with only a few hours' pre- 
vious slight indisposition, or even none at all, and the condition must as rapidly 
pass away, when the cases come early under observation {see below), as a result 
of the simple process of abstracting heat from the body by cold douching. Are 
we to believe that the toxins circulating in the blood are immediately destroyed 
by the external application of cold ? Is there any other example known of such 
serious toxic symptoms being thus easily and rapidly relieved ? This difficulty 
alone seems to me to be fatal to the microbic theory of the causation of heatstroke. 

TIME OF TREATMENT IN RELATIONSHIP TO PROGNOSIS.— There is 
no exact relationship between the actual degree of hyperpyrexia at the time of 



HEATSTROKE— TEMPERATURE CHARTS 



295 



admission and the mortality. There is, however, a very definite one between the 
length of time the serious symptoms of unconsciousness have persisted before ade- 
quate treatment is adopted and the death rate. Thus in my Calcutta cases the 
average duration of unconsciousness before admission in the fatal cases was 3| 
hours, although the longest period was but 4J hours, but in those which recovered 
it averaged but 1.^ hours. The importance of this fact in the prophylaxis of the 
disease wiU be evident. 



















Chart 


64 
























e 




3 


ro 


K (JL 


1^ 


IH 


Ifi- 


•6 


■7 1 


; 


106»- 
105° 








:zi:::. 




■ t" 


- ( T 


■■■;■■ 


ni 


":. 


■"t 


'ii 


:i:f_; 


: ] ■ 


.:.%'.' 


r 


■•.:!■:■ 




- - 


• 




".:; :: 






: 


-t 


E 


I 


z±,: 


ii 


^^. 


I VI 


•i " 
■}?■■-■ 




t 


,...;.... 


••■L: 






...4 


L 


....;... 


■" 


\ : 


r41' 


: :' 


::•:: 




nE; 


n 




X;:.^ 


...^ ... 


;.:i ;• 


•- 


-3:::. 


-U . 


■ -k" 
...... 


f 


■•■■■I".': 






•t 






...t... 


^ 






-40' 


1 los* 


r 


E 




"t:. 


J. . 


::j:;': 




:;x.r 




■- 


-■i- 


'T.' 






-.-t:: 


"- 




■ r 




>* 


...; .. 


...f._ 


rS9° 1' 


i- 




-1 


■v- 


r 


'■■%■ 
■•■'■!'"■ 


! -.- 


'.. i'.'.. 


_!.:., 


; 


....I. 


-.:e. 


.;k 








V'E 




: 


T 


'..i:::. 






* JOO**- 


■ 


i 




i.'ir". 




k 


' ■ ^ 


■^;p 


rf'- 


■ \ 


% 


■■±- 


:£■ 


J 


.'.. T.":." 


. , - 


■-I:.'. 


, 


. 


^ 
V 


f ■ 


m 


Jl'l 




^fm 


^ 


^■■y 


pfl 


Li 




-Ji 


■•;f-. 




[-."I :" 




t- 


^58-1 


99° 
Jimal 


~ 




K 




^ 


m 


:■■•[■" 




£ 




VT' 


V 


^\>^ 




i' 


, 


' 


i 1 


_ ■ 




- 




\LF- ' 






-'.;- 


1 


<di/ 


-7,7 


■ ■ 


■ r- 


' 








". 


-1 






' 


; 






^^ 


^ 


yv 






; 


..... 


- 


t 


, 


■f: 




■l- 






. [■ 


i 


■^jv- 




.' t' . 




>/ 




=r: 


: 










• i . 




fh: 


y ' 




. 1.'. 




. .:... 


•f- 


v|- 




■"'' 


h^ 


_^- 


^ 


rSf.' 


■ 










--• 


: 



Heatstroke, showing hyperpyrexia followed by low secondary fever. 

AFTER FEVER. — After the temperature has been brought down by cold 
applications a low form of fever, shown in Chart 64, is commonly seen, although 



|09» 


1 








' 




Chart 6i 


). 


















DAV'lOlS 


i 


JU 




U 


i 


'-T^ 


J 


t 


> 


i" 


-k. 


^ 


-•^ 


7 


G 


4^ 


/o 


// 


1-41° 
i-40° 

1 1 
\ i 


100"- 
105° - 


' 


i 


• , 1 


:::zE 


::/^:::. 


m- 






- 




Sr 




■ 


- 


-1 — 


;;;|: 


_.(-... 


■.•.±;: 


> »04° • 


t 


1 


M 


■.■.■Hv, 




■r±-r 


-f— 






— 


rtr 




T 


r1- 


-:- 




^ 


r-f... 


1 108° 
f 102- 

1 101° - 




jj 


1 '>■ 


— »■ 








:^ 


-: 




■Jt^ 


1 


-1- 




-4:- 






..;:-. 


'. 


;— ;;: 


\\ 


i 


^ 


1 


^ 


. ..t. ".■ 








' " 




* 


— 


-4- 


-^ 


-- 


•*i 100" - 

99° • 
08' ■ 
97° - 




:.:t;:;: 


\ 


i^ 


i 


Br 


^ 


S] 


/■ 


^ 


k 


A 


i*i 




^^i« 


^ 


;-Tv 






' 






.::t."- 




^ 


r^ 




> 


Ji 


r 


dl^irm'i 


■ 






..^ 


'zz~ 




' , 


— 




-T 




v.: 






H- 


— 


-^ 


— _ 1 


;■;]■•:•■ 


■. 


"■;■.;■: 


[rp 


:::-- 


- ■ 


• 


- 


■^ 


~^ 


.: 


- 


. 


: 


- 


- 



Heatstroke with recovery from a temperature of 109° F. 



296 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

in some cases it may be slight as in Chart 65. This after fever may be looked 
on as evidence in favour of the microbic theory, but it appears to me that 
it may at least equally well be explained by the heat regulating mechanism 
requiring some few days to recover completely from the very severe derangement 
it has suffered from ; this I at one time thought might be evidence of malaria on 
which hyperpyrexia had ensued, but in 8 of the Calcutta series I examined the 
blood for malarial parasites with a negative result in all. Moreover, as they did 
not occur in the malarial season, that disease can be excluded as a common factor 
in their production. 

TREATMENT OF HEATSTROKE 

In Calcutta the absolute relationship between excessively hot weather and 
the occurrence of heatstroke cases is so well known that at such times special 
arrangements are made for the reception and immediate treatment of the patients. 
There are two points of primary importance in dealing with them : first, measures 
to lower the body temperature ; second, but not less important, those for stimu- 
lating the flagging circulatory and respiratory systems. The two can be com- 
bined in the simple method of cold affusions, by which is meant not merely 
placing the patient in a cold bath, but at the same time pouring cold water over 
the head and chest, which serves both to cool the body and to stimulate the cardiac 
and the respiratory centres. Instead of placing the patient in a cold bath he can 
be put on a stretcher with the head end raised, wrapped in a sheet and packed 
with ice, while cold water is poured on the head and chest as recommended by 
Chandler of New York, who also reports good results from the use of artificial 
respiration for half an hour or more when the breathing is failing. As soon as 
the temperature in the rectum has fallen to about 103° or 104° the cold applications 
should be discontinued, the patient dried and put to bed with warm bottles to 
lessen shock, and carefully watched. If the temperature continues to fall, and 
especially if sweating returns, a favourable result may be expected. If, however, 
the temperature again runs up rapidly the cold affusions must be repeated, but 
the prognosis is then more grave. Cold water enemata may also be of value. 

Drug treatment consists in cardiac tonics hypodermicaUy, of which digitalis 
is preferable to strychnine on account of the tendency to convulsions in the 
disease, but I have seen apparently good results follow the use even of strychnine, 
although some writers say it should never be given in heatstroke. Ether may 
also be injected over the heart in bad cases. Quinine is usually advised to be 
given h3rpodermically if malaria is suspected. I have seen it followed by return 
of consciousness in a bad case with continued insensibility after a marked reduction 
of the temperature, but without malarial parasites in the blood, and think it 
should always be used, guarded by cardiac tonics, as it is likely to help in restoring 
the control of the heat regulating mechanism. Probably it would be more effective 
if cautiously administered intravenously on account of the slow absorption of hypo- 
dermic injections of the drug {see p. 232). Creosote, 10 to 15 minims, rubbed 



HEATSTROKE— PROPHYLAXIS 297 

into the axilla produces profuse perspiration in a short time in fevers, and I 
reported several years ago its successful use in cuttingshort paroxysms of malaria. 
It would be well worthy of trial in heatstroke in order to produce diaphoresis. 

PROPHYLAXIS OF HEATSTROKE 

The importance of the preceding lengthy discussion upon the nature of the 
exciting agent of heatstroke becomes evident when the prophylaxis of the disease 
comes to be considered. If it is due to an imdiscovered microbe, regarding whose 
life history we are totally ignorant, we must clearly await further enlightenment 
before we can lay down any rules for the anticipation and prevention of this for- 
midable disease. If, on the other hand, the evidence I have adduced is considered 
to go far towards proving that definite cHmatic conditions, namely, a high tempera- 
ture with a certain degree of moisture in the air, is the exciting cause, and that 
cases ordinarily only occur during such conditions, then it at once becomes possible 
to foresee an outbreak and take special measures to ensure the earUest possible 
detection and adequate treatment of the cases, this will certainly greatly lower 
the mortality, for the recovery rate is precisely ii^ proportion to the rapidity with 
which they are treated after serious symptoms have set in. 

As in all stations where British regiments are stationed, as weU as in all civU 
stations with an appreciable European population in India, meteorological data 
are regularly kept, it would be easy to arrange for those in charge of the instru- 
ments to give warning to the necessary authorities when " heatstroke " weather 
conditions are reached. In Calcutta and other tropical ports, where the great 
majority of the patients are European sailors, the Port Health Authority should 
be warned, and previously prepared printed instructions should be issued to the 
captains of aU vessels in the port. A similar warning should be sent to the com- 
manding and medical officers of British troops. 

The main points to be attended to in these directions are the following : — 
Firstly, all men feeling seedy or out of sorts in the morning should be directed to 
report themselves and be kept under close observation, in order that the earliest 
premonitory symptoms may be detected. Secondly, sailors resting in their quarters 
and soldiers in their barracks should be visited at least every half hour during 
the time heatstroke cases nearly always occur, namely, from noon to late in the 
evening. By this means the earliest signs of severe headache, rapid or gasping 
respiration and the dry burning heat of the skin would be detected before the 
temperature had reached a very high degree and stertorous breathing and coma 
had set in. Thirdly, instructions should be given and provisions made for the 
immediate treatment of the cases on the spot, for the delay caused by moving 
the patient to hospital before cold affusions are applied is only too frequently 
responsible for a fatal termination. This has been strikingly the case in Calcutta in 
the case of sailors attacked with heatstroke in vessels on the river or in the docks with 
water ready at hand (a supply of ice should be always made compulsory on ships in port 
during heatstroke weather). Yet a native doctor is often first sent for, and after about 
an liour's delay he comes and says he can do nothing, and orders the man to be 



298 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

sent to hospital, which means another hour's delay, and but little chance of success- 
ful treatment by the time he reaches the institution. Ships' officers and the non- 
commissioned officers of troops could readily be instructed to commence the cold 
affusions in such cases, a medical man being in the meantime sent for. I am con- 
vinced that the routine adoption of some such plan as that outlined would materi- 
ally reduce the death rate, and still more the invaliding rate and serious after 
effects of heatstroke in India as well as in other tropical climates, and until the 
supporters of the microbic theory can adduce a little more evidence than the 
unproven and largely incorrect statements they at present rely on, it will be far 
safer to accept the very definite relationship between high temperatures and mois- 
ture and heatstroke prevalence which I have shown to obtain throughout the very 
varying climatic conditions of India, and to put into operation the above simple 
prophylactic measures based on this knowledge. 

MILD FORMS OF FEVER DUE TO HEAT.— All the older writers on fevers 
in India ascribed to the effects of heat, in addition to true heatstroke, certain 
milder forms, which they called " ephemeral " and " ardent " fever. They pro- 
bably included under these terms the seven day and three day fevers described 
as unclassified specific short fevers on p. 300. The question remains : Are there 
any other short mild fevers, without the actual hyperpyrexia and loss of consciousness 
of true heatstroke, which are nevertheless produced in the same way by failure 
of the heat regulating mechanism of the body when exposed for long to exception- 
ally high, and often also moist, temperatures ? Among my two years' complete 
fever records of the European Hospital, Calcutta, there are a very few cases occurring 
during heatstroke weather which could not be classed as either malarial or seven- 
day fever. In some of them there was a history of preceding exposure to the sun 
or working in very hot places, while headache was a prominent feature. Moreover, 
the temperature curves showed a low continued or intermittent fever, closely 
resembling that which is shown in Chart 64 as following true heatstroke. For 
these reasons I am inclined to consider them as mild forms of heat fever. It is 
noteworthy that they only numbered about ten cases in the two years ; thus they 
form a very minute proportion of fevers in Calcutta. 

REFERENCES TO HEATSTROKE 

1860. Morehead, Charles. Clinical Researches on Disease in India. 2nd edition. Sunstroke. 

Chapter XXVI. (With references.) 
1854. Van Someren. Pathology of Coup de soleil. Abstract in Ind. An. Med. Sci., No. 

2, p. 738. 
1856. Scriven, J. B. On Sun Fever. Ind. An. of Med. Sci., Vol. IV, p. 496. 
1859. Longmore, Thomas. Remarks upon a Tabular Return or Synopsis of Sixteen Cases 

of Heat Apoplexy. Ind. An. Med. Sci., No. 12, p. 396, and Lancet, Vol. I, 1859. 
1859. Butler, J. H. Report of an Outbreak of Insolation. Ind. An. Med. Sci., No. 12. 
1859, Brougham, J. P. Remarks on Heat-Apoplexy or Sunstroke. Ind. An. Med. Sci., 

No. 12, p. 525. 
1876. Farrer, J. Sunstroke. Practitioner, 1876. 



HEATSTROKE— BIBLIOGRAPHY 299 

1881. Fairer, J. Insolation or Sunstroke. Trans. Int. Med. Congress of 1881, Vol. II, 

p. 554. 
1886. Chevers, Norman. Commentaxy on Diseases of India, p. 396 (with earlier references). 

1897. Report of Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India, p. 60. 

1898. Sambon, L. W. Remarks on the Etiology of Sunstroke (Siriasis) : not Heat Fevers 

but an Infective Disease. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 74. 

1898. O'Grady, S. F. O. Svmstroke or Siriasis. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. I, p. 92. 

1899. McCartie, C. J. Cause and Prevention of Heat Apoplexy in the Army. Ind. Med. 

Gaz., p. 191 and 434. 
1899. McLeod, K. On Thermic Fever (Siriasis), with special reference to its alleged micro- 

bic causation. Brit. Med. Jour., Vol. II, p. 649 (with discussion by Sambon and 

others). 
1906. Foulds, M. F. A Little Known treatment of Heatstroke. Jour. Royal Army Med. 

Corps, Vol. ^^I, p. 604. 



XIV. UNCLASSIFIED SHORT FEVERS 

With the increasing use of the microscopical methods of diagnosis of fevers in 
the tropics, clearer ideas are being obtained regarding the limitations of 
malaria, with the result that other fevers of short duration, hitherto erroneously 
regarded as of malarial origin, are becoming gradually recognized. The most 
important of these, so far, are the seven day fever of Calcutta and other large 
coast towns in the East, and a three day fever of the hot weather in the Punjab 
and United Provinces, the differentiation of which go far towards clearing up 
the short fevers of India. Few Europeans who reside long in Calcutta escape 
the former disease, while the latter is common in Europeans and to less extent 
in natives of the areas in which it prevails. In fact, it appears to be probable 
that the short attacks of fever in the hot and rainy season from which the great 
majority of European immigrants to India suffer within a year or two of their 
arrival in the country mostly belong to these categories, rather than to malaria 
and that they are of a specific nature, affording a considerable degree of subsequent 
immunity, and in that sense may be looked on as a process of acclimatization . 
Hitherto, when not incorrectly returned as malaria, they have been classed in 
under the vague headings as " Ephemeral Fever " and " Simple Continued Fever," 
which, although better than the utterly misleading confusion with malaria, yet 
convey no definite ideas to the infinite majority of those who are compelled to 
use them for want of better terms, until those responsible for the official nomen- 
clature admit that our knowledge of fevers in the tropics is still incomplete by 
including a heading for " unclassified " fevers. In the following account an 
attempt is made to define and describe these very common diseases, so as to pave 
the way for their more general recognition. 

SEVEN DAY FEVER 

Under the name of seven day fever I have recently described a disease which 
for several months of the year is by far the commonest fever among Europeans 
in Calcutta, while it is also prevalent in other Indian seaport towns such as Bombay 
Madras and Rangoon, but does not appear to prevail far inland from the coast 
in India as far as is yet known. It has hitherto almost invariably been returned 
as either malarial or as " simple contiuued fever," whatever is meant by that 
vague term. It presents some points of resemblance to dengue both in its dis- 
tribution and symptomatology, and J. W. T>. Megaw, I.M.S., has suggested that 
it may be a sporadic form of that disease, although that idea does not appear 
to have struck any of the many medical officers of the European General 

300 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— CLINICAL DESCRIPTION 301 

Hospital, Calcutta, who have treated numerous eases for many years past. 
In debates on this question both in Calcutta and at the Royal Medical Chirurgical 
Society of London a number of medical men with experience of true epidemic 
dengue were unanimous in regarding the seven day fever as certainly distinct 
from dengue. Professor Sandwith, who has seen dengue in Egypt, informs me 
that he thinks seven day fever is a distinct disease, which also occurs in Egypt. 
As among these is Sir Patrick Manson, I feel justified in provisionally describing 
this very prevalent fever of the tropical East as a separate entity in this work, 
although much remains to be learnt regarding its distribution. The follo\^'ing 
account is based on an analysis of the notes of every case in the Calcutta European 
Hospital for two years, numbering just over 200. 

CLINICAL DESCRIPTION 

ONSET. — The disease almost invariably begins quite suddenly. In 60 per 
cent, rigor or chilliness occurred at the commencement of the fever, but in nearly 
40 per cent, this symptom was absent. In 15 per cent, a history of repeated 
rigors was obtained, usually in cases admitted late in the disease, and in such cases 
malaria is specially closely simulated, a suspicion which becomes strengthened by 
the early cessation of the fever while taking the inevitable quinine. Only rarely 
is the onset described as being gradual, as in tjrphoid fever. 

APPEARANCE ON ADMISSION. — In patients coming under observation 
in the earlier stages, the following appearances may be noted. The face is usually 
flushed and the palpebral conjunctiva presents a vivid red coloration, best seen 
on turning down the lower eyeUd. The general expression is often duU and list- 
less, being highly suggestive of early typhoid, while in some cases the addition 
of sUght abdominal pain or distension, and even a few rose spots, gave rise to such 
a strong suspicion of that disease, that a Widal test was performed with a negative 
result, which was soon confirmed by the early cessation of the fever about the 
seventh day. I have also been repeatedly called into consultation to do a Widal 
test, the patients in several instances being relatives of doctors, but after some 
experience could almost always correctly suspect the true nature of the case from 
the history and a clinical examination. 

PAINS IN THE BACK AND LIMBS.— Another very early and constant 
symptom is pain in the back, and only slightly less frequently in the limbs as 
well, while they were often complained of as being all over the body. Eighty per 
cent, of the cases came under one of these headings, while in only 4 per cent, 
were pains recorded as being absent. In only 7 per cent, were they noted as affect- 
ing the joints, and in none of these was there any swelling, redness or tenderness 
locally, while in only one case were the bones specially mentioned as being involved ; 
the seven day fever differing most widely from dengue in these respects, for in 
the latter disease the breakbone pains and joint troubles are a most characteristic 
feature of the disease, and so severe as often to be only relieved by morphia. 



302 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

HEADACHE. — Another very constant and distressing symptom is head- 
ache, almost invariably frontal in site, and frequently affecting the back of the 
eyes. When the patient is asked to indicate the exact position of the pain he 
generally places his forefinger and thumb one on each side just behind the external 
orbital processes of the frontal bone. The headache in malaria is less frequent 
and severe, and more variable in position than that of seven day fever. 

ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. — The TONGUE also has a characteristic appearance, 
namely, marked furring of the dorsum with red raw edges and sometimes even a 
strawberry appearance. This condition differs widely from the uniform slight 
furring in malarial fevers, but resembles that of influenza and dengue. 

SICKNESS was noted in one-fourth of the cases, and nausea in 18 per cent, 
more, so that in the majority of them there was no gastric disturbance, which 
is, therefore, much less common in seven day fever than in malaria, where it is 
specially frequent in the mahgnant tertian form, which is just that variety 
most likely to be confused with seven day fever. 

THE BOWELS were regular in half the cases, constipated in one-fourth, while 
there was diarrhoea or irregularity in the remaining fourth, although it was seldom 
at all severe. 

THE ABDOMEN was not infrequently either somewhat distended or the seat 
of pain ; more so, indeed, than in any other class of fever except typhoid itself. 
During the second year's observation, when fuller notes were kept than in the 
previous year, some degree of distension of the abdomen was recorded, in one- 
fifth of the cases admitted in an early stage, while it was the seat of pain in nearly 
as many more, so that in one-third of the total some abdominal symptoms were 
present. Further, in 5 cases suspicious rose spots were observed on the abdominal 
or thoracic wall. These points are of special importance in view of the frequent 
confusion between the more continued type of seven 'day fever and the early 
stage of typhoid, and also in co-relationship to the organism I have cultivated 
from the blood of seven day fevers which is nearly related to the great typho- 
coli group of organisms. 

THE LIVER was sHghtly enlarged in only 5 per cent, of the cases, and never; 
extended more than 1 in. below the ribs. It is probable that any series of men 
in the tropics would furnish such a small percentage of shghtly enlarged livers, 
while no symptoms referable to this organ have been met with in seven day fever. 

THE SPLEEN was very rarely enlarged in seven day fever, being felt below 
the ribs usually only during deep inspiration, in but 7 per cent, of the total cases, 
and in the second year's series in only 2 per cent. In only 1 case was the 
enlargement at all marked, and this was probably independent of the present 
attack of fever. In this respect seven day fever differs markedly from malaria, 
for in the latter disease the spleen was found to be enlarged in nearly half the cases. 

THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. — Symptoms referable to the respiratory tract 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— CLINICAL ACCOUNT 303 

were also conspicuously absent. Out of a little over 200 cases in only 3 was any 
coryza recorded, and in one of these it had been present some time before the 
fever began. In 4 more slight congestion of the throat was noted. The lungs 
were nearly always free from physical signs, a slight degree of bronchitis being 
detected in only 4 per cent, and in addition slight consolidation at the base in one. 
The escape of the respiratory tract is of great value in separating this disease 
from influenza, which it so closely simulates in its sudden onset with pains and 
aches all over. In the 1892 outbreak of influenza in Calcutta, at any rate, throat 
and lung symptoms were very constantly present, while the seasonal incidence 
was quite different from that of seven day fever {see p. 326). 

CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. — No cardiac comphcations have been noted in 
seven day fever ; in this respect the disease again differs from influenza with 
its frequent late cardiac affections. 

THE PULSE, however, presents a very important feature, for a most constant 
and characteristic slowness in proportion to the temperature is found, just as occurs in 
typhoid and paratyphoid. At the very beginning of seven day fever the pulse may 
occasionally be fairly rapid, reaching over 100 beats a minute, but once the patient has 
been placed at rest in bed it rarely if ever rises above that frequency. During the high 
terminal rise of temperature it scarcely ever exceeds 100, being more commonly 
about 80 to 90 only, while after the temperature finally falls to normal it may 
be 60 or less. The great practical importance of this feature is that it nearly 
always allows of the difficult cases, admitted only during the terminal rise of 
temperature, being readily differentiated clinically from malaria, with which they 
have hitherto been almost invariably confused. In malaria during a pyrexia of 
103° F. or more, the pulse is nearly always over 100 a minute, and usually rises 
to 110 or over {see p. 206). 

CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. — Rashes are occasionally seen in this disease, but 
were only found in quite a small proportion even of the cases coming under observa- 
tion in an early stage of the fever. Out of the total number a rash was recorded 
in only 7 per cent. It was usually of a mottled character, and most frequently 
seen over the extensor surfaces of the forearms, but in a few cases was so extensive 
as to lead to a diagnosis of measles being made. This rash almost always appeared 
from the fourth to the sixth day of the disease, being thus a late manifestation, 
although only present during the course of the fever, and not after its fall, as in 
the much more constant rash of true dengue. I think that 7 per cent, is rather 
an under-estimate of its frequency, as it may sometimes be of short duration and 
so not be recorded, but even allowing for this, it was quite an exceptional symptom 
in both years' outbreaks. No marked desquamation foUows it, and it usually 
fades before the temperature falls. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVE.— The course of the fever varies very much 
in accordance with the stage of the fever at which the patient comes under obser- 



k 



304 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



vation, so that it was only through careful watching of a long series that I was 
able to recognize that the different types seen were but variations of a single 
disease, and so to separate it from " abortive typhoid " and " simple continued 
fever," so-called, on the one hand, and from malaria on the other, these being 
the terms under which the cases have hitherto been almost invariably returned 
in the different parts of India w^here this fever occurs. Nevertheless, the fever 
has a most characteristic temperature curve, best described by the term " saddle- 
back," which it will be well to illustrate first, and then to return to the variations 
from this typical course. 

THE TYPICAL SADDLE-BACK TEMPERATURE CURVE.— Chart 66 shows 
the characteristic temperature curve from beginning to end. The temperature, 
which was taken every four hours, rose rapidly to over 105° F., and was very Uttle 

Chakt 66 (Case 1,195). 



Da^'aUis 


— 1 




1 


1 


X 


i 


-* 


^ 


i 1 7 


i 


1 


r-tr 


106«-. 

105? 
:g. lO*"- 
1 105" - 
f 102° ■ 

1 ioi° ■ 

''I lOO". 
^9'- 

9a° - 

- -97° - 






'^:::^::. 


;;p' 




- 




■£: 










: 1 


- 


ir-j;::; 


■•f":: 




:;1.: 


■ 




■.::"; 








: 


* 


z;: 


%- 


-'~ 


.t.| 




- 


■■■b 


} 


■ -; 




'^h 


-* 


: 


•■•.r...- 


■•fc 




i^^f- 


^41° 


■-fi 


-I- 


■=:::: 


- 


± 


.1. 


■;;.-(::. 


■i;; 


{ 


J;;': 


%: 


, 


3 


-40° 


' 




'.''.t''".". 






'^ t •• 


- 


'r^i 


■-: 


-;.-r:- 


■4.:: 










:,:: 


, 




'■-T.^'^^ 


i 




:i£ 


M. 




rSf- 


»: 


t. 


~.^' 


* 


■— <-• 


4^ 


i^t 




:z:: 


:•£';: 




^1- 




_.... . 






HE 


■''E:: 


■■■;.:;: J^ 


m 




'Wt'.". 


1 


:i-i- 


i 


...4...y;- 




...L.. 




' 


:■:■:•: ■ 


^ 




Ih 


..■.!-■ 


■i:.. 


: <: 


"1 


:-f;"-- 


^ 


T^ 


l]f 


::r^-v^ 


Mm 


ti- 


^> 


r:.l: 


r 


■ T 


\ 


- 




n:: 


. 




^38"! 

: 1 


: 


K 


K 


-t 


/ 


t: 


7£Z|:;' 


" 


Lif 




W 


— ; ■ 


•".i.. 


:...* 


"1 




"v? 




■.:.■. 


^. 


A 


iS-^ 


7 


..:t.- 


-;;:.:;:: :i;:. 




' .' 


, . 


;:;.;;: 


■.:Y 






1 




f\ 






-57° 


' ' 


r 


/j,./li- 


..\ ■ 


...,....[...... 




i... 




■ • T 


■■ ■ 






1 


/^ 


n 


"/ 


% 


■ 


1 






t. 


« 






! 


1^ 


•^ 




L :.4. ; 


■•|:" 


:v.rv. 


•1 


ft:.: 


. ._. 1 


/ 


\ 


i 




. '■/. 


-:rr ■:':'. 




* 


...J... 


i. 






■•J.'.': 


:..i-: 












r3fi° 












/ie\ 


n 




&L 




si 




«»' 


Ji 




JkL 




: 



Seven daj' fever, showing typical saddle-back temperature curve. 



reduced by repeated spongings (as shown by the dotted hues in the chart). It 
gradually declined during the next two days to about 100° F., at which point it 
remained steadily for three days before the characteristic terminal rise carried 
it up again to 103° F., this was succeeded by the final fall occupying twenty-four 
hours. The pulse was markedly accelerated during the unusually high first rise 
of the temperature, but during the terminal one it is noteworthy that it was not 
found to reach over 82 beats a minute, with a pyrexia of 103° F. 

Chart 67 is a two-hour curve showing how continued the fever was between 
100°' and 102° F. before the typical terminal rise. The pulse in this case was 
never recorded as above 100, and never reached even 80 during the terminal rise, 
in spite of the temperature attaining to over 103° F. — a most characteristic feature 
of this fever. In fact, up to the sixth day the pulse and temperature curve might 
have been those of typhoid, except that in my experience such a saddle-back 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— TEMPERATURE CURVES 



305 



Chart 67 (Case 1,031). 



Vari'iJ^'' 




z 


, % 


4 1 


! 1^ 1 






€ 




,7 1 


^42' 


106' 
105° 

1 108° 
^102° 

1 ""° 
•^ IOC". 

90 

Xcma 
98 

97- 




*• 

_) ■- 


- 










'.;■' 














¥ 








5? 




: 








. 1. 






'. 




..[•: 




'-'t: 


^ J 


.:.i- 


~'i-' 


"^-;. 


'■}i- 


;'[■'■ 


u^-^t 


L41« 




•'; 








-i'-^ 


L 1 


-"i .■: 


• r- 


.-:' ■ 


■ T. ■ 


'^■: 




' 


■f ^ 


;-l.-: 


."4- 


%.: 


.;!■:. 


::: -ri-v.-.r.. 


• 




-i •■ 


■■■•■•-f 


-40 




h 


' 1 






■^ "" 






..-; 


vi:: 


-f 






-.7; 








--H- ■ 








' ■■. 




■;.•■■• 


v.- 


;;L. 


r39°f 


> 


\ 


■ 










■•;^- 




A- 


f^ 






\ 


r\ 


..... 


-.;:;•. 






"/^-'iir; 




A 


^ 


.:, .. 


J< 


B^ 


■P It. 


- r" 


K 


¥ 




r 


" : ■ 




J 


h 


" .... 


:.L :. 


..7.V 


itfi^^i- 


: vi 


•>^:^ 


--:- 


\ 




■::,•-.■ 


•■■• ■ 


t 






V 


\ 


•t 


^ 


^ 


^ 


J 


::':.:. 


■ ■' ■ 


\X . 






\^ 


....;... 




'T} 


r J .:-; 


i-ssof 


— 


4-- 






■■-■ 
















i; 


; 


'■A 




^ 


--«' 


•.:.: 




; 1 




























> 


-s ■ 




\ X 


-57° 


— 










I 






;. 






; 






■ : 




\l^AM 


-V^ 




\ 




.:-.. 




; .* 




i 




-]:. 


: i - 




-;■ 


:•:: 


:.j 


•^ 


r-. 


; 


V 


-L 


1 


' „ 






-i 




T 




" ■. 






"' 




■'■■ 


■•:■.. 






rse* 


jjoo 




7+ 




— ITF 








ft. 






Tk 






— Li*. 


1. 


E 



Two-hourly chart, showing continued type of fever with slow pulse. 

remission to as low a point as 100° F. is rare in the early stage of tj^phoid once 
a higher point has been reached. 

Chart 68 again shows the same saddle-back type, but with a still more marked 

Chart 68 (Case 163). 




Seven day fever, showing deep saddle-back remission. 

remission to reach 99° F., and a final rise once more to 103° F., accompanied by 
a pulse not exceeding 100 per minute, except immediately after admission. 

One step more to a complete remission of the temperature to the normal point, 
and we arrive at Chart 69, in which the pyrexia ceased for two complete days, and 
yet the terminal rise to 103° F. occurred before the final fall to normal. Such 
a complete remission as this is exceptional, for in five-sixths of my cases, patients, 
admitted within the first few days, the temperature never fell below 99° F. during 

20 



306 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



the usual remission, while in fewer still did it actually reach the normal line, 
a point in which this seven day fever differs most essentially from the three day 
pyrexia ending by crisis of true epidemic dengue. 

Chart 69 (Case 783). 




Seven day fever, with complete reriussion to normal before terminal rise. 



CONTINUED TYPHOID-LIKE GROUP.— Although the saddle-back tempera- 
ture curve is by far the most characteristic and usual type in patients 
admitted in the early days of the fever, still there may be considerable variations 
from this form, the most important of which is the continued type simulating the 
early stages of typhoid, for the latter disease by no means uncommonly begins fairly 







Chakt 70 (Case 213). 


Da^cfDis 


1 


*. 


3 


A. 


, ^ 


6 




7. 


' 


J 


<7_J 




"[;: 


■f: 


'__ ■ 1 '■'■ 




1 


- ■ 




.i.. . 




0. 


•::F 


■y. 










: 




- 


105' ■ 

J ^°*' ■ 
1 105° - 

f K>2« 

1 101" 

S 100°. 

99° 
Vmiui 
38° - 

97' - 


:rfc 


f%i. 






1 


- 






■v. 






;'.';■.: 


■i^l 




.■.■i;: 




.;5:.. 


frjrr; 


:-j:;; 


..:;f:;:: 


' 




1 

1 \ 


■ ■!" ' 


'•■■T ; 


■■•£.: 




:-f- 


:4-' 


: X" 


...,,.. 

:.i.- 


;{• 


■ . 


■■i'' 


~t:::. 


p 


w 




fs 


1 


lIJ 


3ity\»-^ 


■•;k 


':^. 




:rt. 






— * - 






p 


'Sr *-' ' jf 


Cr]i:i-.-..if.vHt;' 


. t: 


VT.: 


••H 








.;:1::- 


;- y 




bM^jf-Tu; 


*>J 


:::::;::: 


t 1 


:i;: 


:;;!:- 


■•H 


v;;j:: 






»' 1 


'¥:. 


■;ji'\ 








%' 


:t^ 


^ 




. 


-;p 


''p' 


.•|T. 




'.' 


■:v 


1 


.-.1. ■- 


w. 


■y^ 


%x 


' i- _ 


.it' 




-.v.-: 


::r.- 


'. 


. ™i--. 


' i 


r\.: 






it 






■ft 






.::!::. 


:.ic 


f-t:J;:/ 




...;.;■■ 








'?t 


V 






. .1 ■; 


:■*-[■•■- 




.. ■-... 






.-. : . 




- 1- 




ri 3 


X, 


^ 


. > . 


Jfl 


J-^ it 


-hr 


:■ h- 


m 


, 


J-- 


■\ 


." :!". 


-r 


3J 


m 


/ 


V 


■■■;::. 


:. !-■." 




rtr 


J- 




1 - 


■..i • 


;'} 


15' 













••^ 


,'3S^ 


*o..^ 


td.L- 


[7*4 


__ 


400 


," 


«0 







■42' 
■4J' 



-10 

■59° f 



56» 



Seven day fever, showing liigh continued type resembling typhoid. 

abruptly and without the classical step-like rise in tropical India. Chart 70 is 
one of the most marked examples of this form I have met with, although I have 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— ABNORMAL TEMPERATURES 



307 



a number of charts showing an equally continued fever, but usually at a shghtly 
lower level. These continued cases frequently give rise to groundless fear of typhoid, 
but the symptoms already described will, as a rule, allow of a correct diagnosis 
being arrived at after some experience of the disease. In several private cases 
in which I was asked to examine the blood for typhoid, I have been able to recog- 













Chari 


71 


(C 


ase 


311). 












DiXi-ofDis^ 


1 


%. 


3 


^ 


^ 


6 


7 


f ' 




100' 






.'-- 




, 








" :; -. 












■- ; - 


i 








:;:.. 


...: . 


\ 
















. ,' ; 


' :::;.: 


i-41" 


105" 

1 lOS" 
f 102° - 




.•:; ::. 


i-' 


L.'X.". 


r-\ ■. 








' 




s 


:;^::. 


::i:. 


'■?;' 


:.[■; 


i-40' 




..4... 


.:t~. 


'JZ:'.'. 










/ 


>t. 




'.'i"" 


i-^ 


"'*"" 


■:b 


' 




:±:.. 




f 


,-■... 


^ 


^ 


?kI 




:f 


:^t; 


. -■-.-, 






'-?&' 






h 


t 




^ 


:,:.::. 




'■:- ^ 




;:.. 






■■?.:-; 


::::..: 




''i lOO'- 


- 




1 


f^: 


■J.- 






~"*~ 






V 






1- 


-— • 








■f 


> 




. ;; .. 




.: ;..- 


-iti" 




i 


f: . 






.::,. 


r.;.:. 








-^ 




[--}:' 




v-i--". 


: 










: 


■^ 


I 








..:■::: 








_U- 


1; 1 


5^ 


X" 


J_ 




-57"= 


98' 
97» - 


€~ 


*r 


;-.L: ; 


■.:.::. 


:::r' 


-p 


-t-^ 






;::;:, 


■:}: 


w~- 


■ 


—•— 


i 


i-S6 


n.l^ M 




.v^r; 


:jr.;r: 




"X:. 


:;f;: 


::±:. ■ 


- 


::-:?::: 


..:'::: 


'-..X.'-. 




-:T:. 


-.;... 






















bl 




szifc 




3± 


JU. 


c 



Seven day fever, with absence of remission and resembling the 
commencement of typhoid. 

nize the new fever clinically, and correctly to assure the friends that the temperature 
would fall on the sixth or seventh day. 

Chart 71 is that of another patient, attacked while in hospital, in which the 
high initial rise is less abrupt than usual, so that the terminal one shows the highest 











Chakt 


72 (Case 294). 












DarcfDis^ 




X 


A 




V^ 


^ 


^ 




T 


,.« 1 




106» 

JOS' 

:$ KH'- 

1 ^^' 

"f 102» 

1 10l° - 
^ lOO*. 

99' 

Vtma 

08* 

97° • 


vf:; 










' 


, 










- 






; 


•■i::: 


■'iai 


; 


- ' • 


* 


■ -_ 




{ 


;4-:; 


: 




* 




-j; 


r41' 




^ 




. 






1 




■ "t '. 






f- 




K-- 


■ 








\-- 


*L. 


^ 


\ 


I 




i 


1 


■ \~ 




j ~ 








-?>9°l* 


■::_: 






\ 






•1 










.L 




1 ■ 






\ 




- 


' t ' 


"•!..' 


' 


■ 






;•; 


:'^^ 


— . 








■J:' 


• 1 


' 


\- 


^ 


' N 


■■■! 


._,._ 


1 . 


t r . 




^S8»| 






* 




[^ 


/ 


v/^ - 


s_ 




; 




" I 


i 1 


4- 






- 


;v. 


^ 


^ 


-i4r 








__ 









^ 


^ 


.^ 


•^ 


-/ 


r57' 


;!:' 


'1 


: 


" 7 


1 




, 






J 


■_K_ 






r 


i 




'. "i'.. 


- 


' 












' 








...... 


r5e» 


^^ 


^.^ 


ioS 




l2A 




l^ 




iiL 




la 




UL 


_ . 


■ 



Seven day fever, with absence of terminal rise. 



308 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



point of the p3a*exia, but with a slow pulse — a less uncommon type which may 
also give rise to a suspicion of tjrphoid for several days. 

Chart 72 illustrates the opposite condition, also quite exceptional, in which 
the terminal rise is completely absent, although the temperature did not finally 
reach the normal until the sixth day. 

TERMINAL CASES. — I have already mentioned that just about haK these 
patients only come to hospital during the terminal rise of temperature, and this 
is easy to understand when we remember that in a large number of the cases the 
pjo-exia falls to about 100, or under, on the second or third day, accompanied 
by a remission of the severe headache and pains in the back and limbs, so that 
the patient thinks he is rapidly getting over his trouble. It is only when he is 
rudely awakened from this happy frame of mind by the second rise of temperature 
that he comes into hospital for treatment, there his fever rapidly ceases while 
taking the inevitable quinine, so that both he and his doctor usually have no 
suspicion that he has su£fered from anything but an attack of malaria. 

Chart 73 is that of a patient admitted on the third day, in which the tempera- 

Chart 73 (Case 1,147). 




day fever, showing prolonged high terminal rise with slow pulse. 



ture fell almost to normal on the following day, after which a well-marked terminal 
rise took place,' during which the temperature remained persistently at about 
104° F. for over twenty-four hours in spite of frequent spongings, which had 
only a very ephemeral effect on the pjn^exia. The pulse was never recorded as 
rising over 92 during this high temperature, while a very sHght and short recru- 
descence of fever occurred just after the cessation of the secondary curve, as is 
occasionally the case. 

Chart 74 is that of a man admitted on the fourth day with a low continued 
type of fever succeeded by the charactersitic terminal rise with a slow pulse. 

Chart 75 is that of an unusually short case admitted at about the beginning 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— DURATION 



309 



of the terminal rise, the fever only lasting two days under quinine, but with the 
slow pulse of seven day fever and not the rapid one of malaria. In this case, as 
in every one on which this description is based, a blood-film, taken before any 
quinine had been administered in hospital, was examined by me for malarial 
parasites, with a negative result. 



Chart 74 (C^se 376). 




Seven 



c 


HART 75 (Case 568). 


J)tv -vfLns 


3 


A- 


s^ 




106' 

105° - 

$ lO*" • 
1 10J° 
^ 102° 

1 lor 
'^ too 

99- 
N,mil 




s 














if 












., .. 




'i'" 










■ ( 


€ 


^t,. 














L 












r 


h 




' 




--;;.. 


:%... 


■f:: 


\> 


t— t- 


:.:[: 






^■;!-:. 




\ 


' 




: ■ 






» 


-:^ 


L. 


...... 












^ 


^ 






; ' -^ 










n.tsr " 


'■:-:■'■ 




■;-■ 














^ 




ff0 







l-tr 
^4o- 



p I 

-58"! 

I 



sc 



day fever, admitted on fourtli day, show 
terminal rise with slow pulse. 



mg 



Seven day fever, admitted about tho 
beginning of the terminal rise. 



The last three charts will serve to illustrate the very frequent cases admitted 
during the terminal rise of pyrexia, many of them only coming to hospital on the 
fifth or sixth day of the disease, but a few hours before the final fall. In such 
only the history of the patient, the absence of malarial parasites, and above all 
the slow pulse during high fever, aided by their occurring in the regular season 
for this disease, will allow of a correct diagnosis being arrived at, and the common 
error of returning them as malaria to be avoided. 

THE DURATION OF THE FEVER 

On account of the patients coming to hospital in any stage of the disease, 
the actual duration of the fever after admission varies widely from one to eight, or 
rarely slightly over eight, days. The total duration of the fever in just about three- 
quarters of them was either six or seven days, so that the temperature either fell 
to normal on, or finally remained normal during the seventh day in this propor- 
tion, and hence the name of " seven day fever," which I have proposed for the 
disease. A slightly larger number of cases end on the sixth than on the seventh 
day, but it appeared to be better to take the latter day for the name of the affection 
80 as not to lead to its termination being expected at an earlier date than actually 
occurs in almost half the total cases. Table XXIX shows the number of 
cases which terminated on different days of the fever, the cases denoted " typical " 
being those admitted sufficiently early to show the characteristic saddle-back 



310 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



or complete terminal rises of temperature, while the " terminal " cases are those 
admitted near the end of the disease, and so especially liable to be returned as 
malarial. 

TABLE XXIX.— DURATION OF THE PYREXIA IN SEVEN DAY FEVER. 





— 3 
Days. 


3 
Days. 


4 
Days. 


5 
Days. 


6 
Days. 


6 or 7 
Days. 


7 
Days. 


8 
Days. 


+ 8 
Days. 


Total. 


Typical cases 
Terminal cases . 







4 


3 

5 


5 
10 


39 
40 


(76) 
(69) 


37 
29 


8 
10 


8 
8 


100 
106 


Total cases 





4 


8 


15 


i 79 


(145) 


66 


18 


16 


206 



It wiU be seen from this table that in no case did the fever last less than 
three days, while in only 4, or 2 per cent., did it end on the third day, aU these 
being terminal cases in which the history of the duration of the fever before admis- 
sion may have been inaccurately given. Further, only 8 cases, or 4 per cent., 
ended on the fourth day, so that in the remaining 94 per cent, the fever lasted 
five or more days ; and in 86 per cent, it lasted six or more days — a point of the 
utmost importance in separating this disease from true epidemic dengue with 
three or less days' fever, according to the great majority of experienced writers 
on that disease. As I was examining the blood of every fever case in the hospital 
it is impossible that I could have overlooked an appreciable number of short cases 
of this fever, for exceedingly few such cases without malarial parasites in their 
blood occurred during the months when the seven day fever was prevalent. 

CONVALESCENCE. — Once the temperature is normal and the patient up 
and on fuU diet, convalescence is very rapid after seven day fever, as was pointed 
out by Dr. J. G. Murray, I.M.S., at the recent debate in Calcutta already men- 
tioned, this officer having had a very large experience of the disease in his wards 
at the European Hospital. He also stated that he had never seen a case of three 
or less days' duration, nor the very severe pains and joint complications of true 
dengue ; moreover the pains did not return during the terminal rise of seven day 
fever as in dengue. He regarded the slow pulse of seven day fever as a char- 
acteristic point of difference from the latter disease. 

Another important feature in the convalescence of seven day fever is the 
absence of the chronic joint pains which are often so prolonged and distressing 
after true dengue, which cause the cripphng of the patient from which the name 
of the affection is said to be derived. These, on the other hand, I have never seen 
in the Calcutta sporadic seven day fever. 

RELAPSES. — I have not yet met with a case of seven day fever which has 
relapsed during the same year as the primary attack, although the same person 
may rarely suffer from the disease again in a subsequent year if he remains in 
Calcutta ; but the fever is then usually in a milder form with a more marked and 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— BLOOD CHANGES 



311 



prolonged remission. This was well illustrated by the charts of two attacks 
experienced and recorded by J. W. D. Megaw, I. M.S., in a paper in which he ably 
advocates the view that the seven day fever is but a sporadic form of dengue. 
In the latter disease, however, even repeated relapses during a single season are 
very common in Indian outbreaks. 

THE BLOOD CHANGES IN SEVEN DAY FEVER 

Blood slides taken on admission before the administration of any quinine 
in hospital have been examined by me for malarial parasites in every case with 
invariably negative results. Further, no trace has been met with of the supposed 
protozoal parasite described by Graham in dengue cases seen in Beyrouth. 

Total counts of the red and white corpuscles were made in a few cases, 
and showed an occasional slight reduction of the red, but a much more marked 
one of the leucoc3rtes, which commonly numbered only from 2,000 to 4,000 per 
cubic millimetre, being thus disproportionally reduced as compared with the 
red, so that the ratio was usually below 1 white to 1,000 red corpuscles. In this 
respect the leucocyte changes differ from the usual formula in malaria, in which 
the red and the white corpuscles are about equally reduced ; but the counts in seven 
day fever are not sufficiently constant to make this a test of much practical 
importance. 

THE DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNT.— In 80 cases a differential 
leucocyte count was made from the blood films prepared on admission, the results 



TABLE XXX.— DIFFERENTIAL LEUCOCYTE COUNTS IN SEVEN DAY FEVER. 



Large Mononuclears. 

0-8. . . . 

+ 8-12 . . . 

+ 12-15 . . . 

+ 15 . . . . 

Total . . 

Lymphocytes. 

-30. . . . 

30-40 . . . 

40 ... . 

Total . . 



Day of Disease. 



1-3 days. + 3 daj's. 



Temperature when blood was taken. 



— 102 



12 

10 
1 

8 

31 



19 

12 

9 

9 



49 



10 

10 

4 

11 

35 



+ 102 



21 

12 

6 

6 



45 



Total. 



Percentage. 



31 
22 
10 
17 



38-7 
27-5 
125 
20-2 



80 



13 


22 


14 


12 1 


4 


■ 15 j 


31 


49 ! 



12 
12 
11 



23 
14 

8 



35 



45 



35 
26 
19 



80 



43-7 
32-5 
23-7 



of which are shown in Table XXX, so to enable them to be readily compared with 
those of malarial cases in Table XXIV, p. 225. The most essential feature of the leuco- 



312 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

cyte changes in seven day fever is a considerable reduction in the percentage of 
the polynuclears with a corresponding increase in those of the lymphocytes and 
large mononuclears. As the total number of leucocytes is also much reduced, 
the actual numbers of the lymphocytes and large mononuclears are not much 
if at all greater than normal, so that they are only relatively increased in proportion 
to the polynuclears, while the polynuclears are both relatively and still more 
actually reduced. 

As an increase in the percentage of the large mononuclears has been regarded 
as a sign of the presence of malarial infection, the frequency and degree of this 
change in seven day fever is of much importance. The increased proportion of 
the lymphocytes is also of interest in comparison with that of typhoid, which 
seven day fever may resemble for a time. I have analysed the cases both as 
regards the duration of the fever and the height of the temperature at the time 
the blood was examined. The results show, in the first place, that the increased 
proportion of both the large mononuclears and the lymphocytes is more marked 
after the third day of the fever than during the first three days. Secondly, both 
these changes are considerably more marked when the temperature is normal 
or below 102° F. than when it is at a height of 102° or over. Of the 80 cases 39 per 
cent, showed normal counts of 8 per cent, or less large mononuclears, while one-third 
gave counts of over 12 per cent., and as many as 20 per cent, showed over 15 per 
cent, of large mononuclears : the figure which Stephens and Christophers con- 
sidered to indicate recent malarial infection. If only the cases are taken in which 
the blood was examined when the temperature was below 102°, then as many 
as 31 per cent, of the cases gave over 15 per cent, of large mononuclears. It is 
clear, then, that this test is of no value in differentiating seven day fever from 
malaria, and it follows that in places where the former disease occurs a large mono- 
nuclear increase cannot be safely regarded as evidence of malarial infection, a 
statement which is also true of kala-azar {see p. 72). In fact, I was misled into 
recording as malarial remittents in a paper in Vol. 86 of the Medico-Chirurgical 
Transactions, two cases of what I now recognize to have been seven day fever, 
by finding a marked large mononuclear increase in them. 

THE LYMPHOCYTES were normal in 43 per cent., increased to between 
30 and 40 per cent, in 32 and numbered over 40 per cent, in the remaining 23 per 
cent, of the cases, while in cases with a temperature of under 102° this marked 
increase of the lymphocytes was met with in 31 per cent. In this respect the 
blood of seven day fever closely resembles that of typhoid, although the additional 
increase of the large mononuclears is very rare in the early stages of; typhoid, 
with which the seven day fever can alone be confused on account of its short 
duration. 

It will be seen from the foregoing remarks that the leucocyte changes in 
seven day fever are most variable, and afford httle help in separating this fever 
from malaria or the early stages of enteric, with which it has been most confused. 
Moreover, in the presence of this fever the differential leucocyte count loses much 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— ETIOLOGY 313 

of its diagnostic value in both malaria and typhoid, so that as a result of several 
hundred counts in all forms of fever in the East, I have been reluctantly compelled 
to come to the conclusion that this method will not serve for the separation of 
the several fevers met with in the tropics, as I had hoped it might do, although 
it j)Ossesses considerable value in certain cases, and especially in the differentiation 
of early kala-azar from tjrphoid [see p. 141). 

THE CULTIVATION OF A BACILLUS FROM THE BLOOD OF SEVEN DAY FEVER 

CASES 

Being struck with the resemblance between the more continued type of the 
seven day fever, with its slow pulse, to typhoid and paratyphoid fevers, I made 
numerous attempts to cultivate a bacillus from the vein blood. An organism 
was thus obtained in pure culture in six cases during the two seasons' work, which 
appears to present constant features differing from those of the bacilli of typhoid 
and paratyphoid infections. The following are its principal characteristics : — 

In shape and size it resembles those of the coli group, and Uke them is actively 
motile ; flagella, in comparatively small numbers, having been demonstrated in 
gome of them by my assistant. Dr. G. C. Chatterjee, to whom I am indebted for 
much help in testing the cultural characters of the organism. It is decolourised 
by Gram's method of staining, grows in broth with the production of a diffuse 
haziness ; forms a thin film on gelatine at 70° F. without liquefying the medium, 
and shows much the same appearance as that produced by the coli group on the surface 
of an agar tube. In a stab culture of glucose agar it does not grow very readily, 
except in the upper part of the streak and on the surface, and does not produce 
any gas-formation. On potato it forms an invisible growth like the typhoid 
bacillus. In litmus milk no clotting is produced, and only shght acidity results 
after a few days. In dextrose, laevulose, glucose, and maltose broths there is 
neither acid nor gas-formation, but with mannite sHght acid-formation takes place 
after several days. 

Dr. G. Dean has kindly tested two of the organisms at the Lister Institute 
with the following additional results. No fermentation was produced at the end 
of twenty-four and forty-eight hours in either arabinose, galactose, saccharose, 
lactose, inulin, salicin, erythrite, mannite or dulcite. He obtained slow liquefaction 
of gelatine. The organisms were on the average rather longer than the typhoid 
bacillus, with occasional long forms. They were distinctly motile, with an undu- 
latory movement of the longer forms. He concludes that they do not give the 
reactions of any pathogenic bacillus known to him, though occasionally organisms 
are met with in faeces having these reactions. 

The organism thus appears to be related to the great coli group, but differs 
from the organisms of typhoid and paratyphoid fevers. In addition to the cases 
in which it was isolated from the blood, a number of other cases yielded negative 
results, so that repeated examinations are necessary in order to obtain it, but 
this is, perhaps, not surprising in such a mild and short fever as the seven day 
one is. Clumping was obtained with the organisms when mixed with the blood of 



314 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



patients suffering from seven day fever, up to dilutions of 1 in 20 and 1 in 40, although 
the reaction was not sufficiently constant to furnish a reliable diagnostic measure, the 
fever apparently being too short in duration to yield much agglutinin. The presence 
of this organism repeatedly in the blood of seven day fever patients points to its 
being probably the cause of the disease, but my observations require confirmation 
before this relationship can be positively asserted. It is just possible that the organism 
may be one accidentally present in the blood, much as Sanarelli's bacillus sometimes 
is in yellow fever. If, on the other hand, further observations show it to be the 
cause of seven day fever, this will prove the disease to be quite distinct from dengue 
in view of the absence of microscopically evident organisms in the latter disease 
recently shown by Ashburn and Craig {see p. 248). 

TREATMENT. — Quinine is useless, and tends to aggravate the headache, 
while I know of no drug which influences the course of the fever, although salicylate 
of soda is useful in modifying the pains, and belladonna is worth trying if they 
are unusually severe. 

MORTALITY. — No fatal case has been met with. 

RACE AND SEX INCIDENCE.— The most striking fact in the incidence of 
the disease is that for the first month or two of its prevalence each year practically 
every patient is a sailor or some one connected with shipping on the river Hughli. 
Later in the season patients are admitted from other sections of the community 
all over Calcutta, but it especially affects newcomers rather than those who have 
lived for some years in the town. For this reason comparatively few cases were 
seen in females, and extremely few in children, almost all the women and children 
admitted to this hospital belonging to the classes who are born and bred in India. 

Among the native classes admitted to the Medical College Hospital cases 
are also occasionally seen, but this fever is many times rarer in the indigenous 
population than among Europeans, especially if the proportions of the two living 
in Calcutta are taken into consideration — another point in which it is at total 
variance with epidemic dengue. 

THE SEASONAL INCIDENCE OF SEVEN DAY FEVER COMPARED WITH THAT OF 

MALARIA 

The monthly incidence of severe day fever and malaria respectively during 
the two years that I microscoped the blood of every case is shown in dia- 
gram V. In 1904 the seven day fever was prevalent from June to August, dis- 
appearing again in September, which is the very month during which malarial cases 
rapidly increased from a previous low level. The former remained practically 
absent from September, 1904, to the following April. In 1905 the seven day 
fever was unusually prevalent, beginning to increase as early as May and being 
very numerous from June to September, but rapidly declining during October 
and November, and disappearing once more from December to the following 
April. Owing to a late rainy season the usual autumnal increase of malaria 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS 



315 



did not appear until November and December, when the seven day cases had 
markedly decreased. In 1906 the new fever cases were less numerous than in 
1905, but they began to increase in May, reaching the highest point in July and 
declining again to very few in September, the fall, as usual, taking place just before 
the main rise in the malarial curve. 



r 







1 


1 


1 

1 


1 


1 


f 


■^ 
i 


1 


19 
1 


05 

1 


^ 

^ 


I 


1 


1 

1 


1 






It 




1906 


^ 

^ 




1 


I. 

1 




40 
























































3B 














































1 










36 














































A 










34 
























































32 


























K 






























)0 


























r 






























2B 
























i 
































26 
























/ 
































24 






« 


















/ 






























22 






1 
















1 


' 






t 


























20 




/ 


















s/ 








l\ 






















1 




IB 


/ 


' 




1 






















1 






















1 

1 




16 








1 
1 




















' 


i 
\ 




















1 




14 








\ 
« 






















\ 






















12 


















i 




11 






y 




1 










/ 






1 
. 1 






10 








' 














A 










1 










/ 






\ ' 






8 










» 












/ ' 




t" 


'^ 














I 






' ', 








6 










V 










/ 




« < 


r 




\ 




' 








1 




1 

» 










4 


















A. 


,1 




V 






\ 




t 
1 






i 




P- 


yi 










2 












V 




4 














> 




\ 


/ 


r'^i 


V 


V 










' 







> 


/ - 


V 


w. 




>3 


4 
















\ 






.^ 














Seven d 


avF. 





2 


2 


/ 


• - / 


1 


8 


» 


20 


26 


34 13 


s 




-• : 


■ i / 


9 


24 


39 


23 


3 


4 


■* Ma/aria 


IB 


21 


2S 


14 


7|3 / 


3 


S 


JLJ 


I3i5\l0\3 \23 


15 


2 1? I4 |3 


2 


5 


_5j 


12 


9 


22 



Diagram V. — Monthly incidence of seven day and malarial fevers in 
Calcutta. Continued line = seven day fever. Dotted line = malarial fever. 

If, however, a curve of the incidence of both fevers together is worked out 
(as shown in a paper on malaria in Calcutta in the Indian Medical Gazette of March, 
1906), then a single curve is obtained with two maxima, the first due to the 
seven day and the second to malarial fevers. It is not therefore surprising that 
both these fevers have been so long confused together and regarded as malarial 
in nature. The late Dr. A. Crombie, I.M.S., may have been thinking of the seven 
day fever now described when he stated that, in his belief, 75 per cent, of the fevers 
in Calcutta returned as malaria did not belong to that category. 



THE DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF SEVEN DAY FEVER 

FROM MALARIA. — Briefly, the diagnosis of seven day fever from malaria, 
with which it has been so long confused, can usually be made clinically by attention 
to the points described above. The chief of these are, the totally different temperature 



316 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



curve in the cases admitted early, the more severe frontal headache, the red edge 
to the tongue, the rash when present, the pains aU over the body, the absence 
of enlargement of the spleen and of malarial parasites in the blood, and, 
especially in the terminal cases, by the slow pulse-rate accompanying high fever. 

FROM INFLUENZA. — In Calcutta I find that influenza cases occur mostly 
from January to March, and disappear in the hot weather before the seven day 
fever season commences, they do not appear again till late in the autumn, when 
the other disease is practically at an end. Further, the temperature curve is 
usually an irregular, intermittent one, and never shows the typical saddle-back 
type of the seven day fever, while the latter is scarcely ever complicated with 
the inflammatory signs in the lungs and throat which were nearly constant in 
the Calcutta influenza of 1892. 

TABLE XXXL— DIFFERENCES BETWEEN DENGUE AND SEVEN DAY FEVER 





Dengue. 


Seven day Fever. 


Prevalence . .- . 


At long intervals in epidemic 
form attacking a large propor- 
tion of residents. 


Annually in sporadic form. 


Distribution .... 


Specially attacks coast towns, 


Only known near the coast, so 




but spreads far inland. 


far. 


Race incidence . 


Europeans and natives equally 


Very common in Europeans, 




attacked. 


comparatively rare in natives. 


Seasonal incidence . 


Mostly in hot months, but may 


Prevails in hot and rainy seasons 




prevail in cold season (1872). 


only. 


Relapses 


Very common in same year as 


Rare, and not in same year as 




first attack. 


first attack. 


Pains ..... 


Very severe and breakbone in 


Moderately severe, as in influenza, 




character. 


and not of breakbone charac- 
ter. 
Absent, or only present as slight 


Joint symptoms 


Very common and character- 




istic. 


pain. 


Convalescence . 


Very tedious, lasting one to 
three months, with persistent 
joint-pains. 


Rapid. No after joint-pains. 


Fever 


Lasts two or three days, falling 


Five to eight or more days, with 




to normal with crisis. Occa- 


typical saddle-back remission 




sional very short secondary 


to 100° to 99° F. only. Other- 




rise. Markedly remittent. 


wise continued in type. 


Pulse 


Rapid. 


Slow, especially in terminal rise. 



FROM DENGUE. — A much more difficult question is its separation from 
dengue, for the seven' day fever resembles the latter in its sudden onset, the severe 
headache and pains, the characters of the tongue, the rash, when present, and, 
to some extent, in its seasonal incidence and its distribution ; so much so that I 
find from an extensive examination of the Uterature and of fevers in India, that 



k 



SEVEN DAY FEVER— DISTRIBUTION IN INDIA 317 

the typical seven day fever has been described as dengue by Edward Goodeve, 
I. M.S., in Calcutta in 1853, and by Fleet-Surgeon Bassett-Smith in Bombay 
in 1897, in addition to a recent outbreak at the Mount in Madras. 

On the other hand, the fever now being described differs most markedly from 
the classical accounts of dengue epidemics, as well as from three great Indian out- 
breaks of 1824, 1872 and 1902, so much so, indeed, as to make me think that 
it is quite distinct from dengue. The main points of difference are shown 
in Table XXXI. 

DISTRIBUTION IN INDIA OF SEVEN DAY FEVER 

This fever has been so recently differentiated that little is yet known regarding 
the extent of its prevalence. A study of the fever records for two or three years 
in each of the Medical College Hospitals in India, has, however, furnished the 
following information on the subject. In Lahore, the capital of the Punjab, I 
was unable to find any fever cases corresponding with the common seven day fever 
of Calcutta, while an examination of the charts of all the fever cases treated in 
the station hospital for British troops at Bareilly, in the United Provinces of 
Agra and Oudh gave a similar negative result. Quite recently, however. Miss 
Farrer, M.B., has sent me typical charts of seven day fever seen by her in 
Europeans in the Punjab. In Bombay the records of the European Hospital 
for 1905 and 1906 showed fairly numerous cases of this fever in the months- 
of April to October in 1906 and from June to November in 1905, this season 
being very similar to that of the disease in Calcutta although slightly longer, 
which is in accordance with the shorter cold season in Bombay during which 
the disease is absent. Further, a considerable proportion of the cases occurred 
among sailors in Bombay, as is markedly the case in Calcutta. In the J.J. Hos- 
pital, the considerable majority of the patients in which are natives, the seven 
day fever was much more rarely met with, and some of the few cases were in 
Europeans : this also being in agreement with my Calcutta experience. 

In Madras records of aJl the cases unfortunately are not preserved, so that I was. 
unable to get accurate data as to the prevalence of this fever. An examination 
of the admission register, however, showed that a number of fevers, within the hmita 
of the duration of seven day fever, occurred during each of the two years examined 
from June to November. These were returned as either " simple continued fever " 
or as of '* unknown " nature : a recognition of the incompleteness of our knowledge 
of fevers in the East, the more general adoption of which would render the returns 
of such definite fevers, such as malaria for example, less incorrect than they com- 
monly are in official reports. These doubtful short fevers occurred most commonly 
in Europeans, so that both their seasonal and racial distribution so closely corre- 
spond with seven day fever in Bombay and Calcutta that there can be little doubt 
that many of them at least were really seven day fevers. This view is confirmed 
by a statement of T. H. Simonds, I.M.S., one of the physicians of the Madras 
General Hospital, that he had recognized some cases of this disease in Madras, 
subsequently to my preliminary description of the fever being published. 



318 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

The above data show that this fever is a common one of Indian ports, among 
which Rangoon must be included, for seven day fever has also been recently 
recognized there. 

On the other hand, it does not appear to be very common far inland from 
the Indian coast, as far as my inquiries in the United Provinces and the Punjab 
afford any indications on this point. That this fever will be found to be widespread 
among Europeans in other tropical ports in the East, including Egypt, is extremely 
likely when knowledge accumulates on the subject. 

THREE DAY FEVER OF THE HOT SEASON IN UPPER INDIA 

In the course of the anti-malarial measures at Mian-Mir inaugurated by the 
Malarial Commission of the Royal Society, the blood of a number of soldiers admitted 
for fever was examined for malarial parasites. In October, 1901, S. R. Christophers 
only found such organisms in 40 per cent, of the admissions, while in September 
of the following year S. P. James detected malarial infection in 45 per cent, of 
those examined. In a number of them no quinine was given, yet repeated examin- 
ation showed no parasites, and the fever terminated without any active treat- 
ment in from one to three days. James therefore concluded that they were not 
malarial in nature, and published some charts without clinical notes of the cases 
in his report to the Royal Society in 1903. Early in 1906 R. McCarrison, I. M.S., 
described a common fever in Chitral, in the extreme north-west of India, the 
charts of which closely correspond with those of James. During the same year, 
while investigating the incidence of different fevers in the Punjab and United 
Provinces, I recognized the frequent occurrence, in the hot weather months of 
those provinces, of a short fever with a temperature curve differing from that of 
malaria, but corresponding closely with the charts of James and McCarrison, 
while the last-mentioned writer mentions the similarity of his cases to those of 
James, and points out that the inhabitants of the Punjab suffered much less than 
the natives or Gurkhas in Chitral from three day fever, just as if they had 
acquired some immunity in India. Taking all these facts together, I think, there 
appears to be sufficient evidence to show that there is a common short non-malarial 
fever of the hot season in the drier tropical parts of Upper India, although it appears 
to be much rarer in the moister climate of Lower Bengal and Southern India, 
as I have not met with it for certain in Calcutta, nor found records of similar cases 
in Madras or Bombay. The following is a brief clinical account of the disease 
mainly as described by McCarrison in Chitral, together with some charts of cases 
I met with in the Punjab and United Provinces. 

THE TEMPERATURE CURVE.— The patient usually comes to hospital with 
a temperature of from 102° to 103°, occasionally reaching 104°. It may rise 
a degree after admission, but more commonly it shows a steady decline of 1° to 2° 
daily, the morning and evening temperatures being about the same on each day 
thus giving a step-like form to the fall, as shown in Charts 76 and 77, or the evening 



THREE DAY FEVER 



319 



Chart 76. 



reading may be very slightly higher than the morning, 
as in Chart 78. A sub-normal point is commonly 
reached and maintained for twenty-four hours or so 
after the decline at the end of two or three days. 
The pulse is usually slow throughout, rarely exceeding 
100, as shown in Chart 78. This steady step-like 
decline of the pyrexia is totally unlike that of a 
malarial fever, and together with the slow pulse should 
readily allow of the differentiation between the two 
classes by clinical observation, which will be confirmed 
by an absence of the malarial parasites from the 
blood in the three day form. 



SYMPTOMS.— According to McCarrison the fever 
begins suddenly, sometimes with some previous 
malaise, but without rigor, although slight chilliness 
may be present. It is accompanied by severe frontal headache and pain in the 
eyes from the first, together with pains in the Umbs, joints and all over the body. 
The face was flushed, but no rash appeared, the tongue was furred in the centre, 
but red at the edges, the bowels usually constipated, sickness rare, and no 
herpes was noted. The pulse may be rapid at first, but is often only between 




Three day fever. 



Chart 



Chart 78. 



OKCIf^li. 


1 


5- 


^^5" 


T 


_L. 


; 


106°- 
105° 
>104°- 
J 105° - 
f 102°- 
1 lOl° - 

^ioo°. 

99° - 


■:p 


, 


.-.] 




^ 


j^ 


■zB 


: 


■4.;; 


^■E': 


: 


•:;■ 


;.■.■;, r. 


"::;l: 


r4l' 






'.-i:: ; 


::;£■• 


■:-■:. 


: 


T 




"T 


-40- 


;:*;■: 


:■>: 






: ::;: 


^ 


^: 






::h.- 


■i-: 


: ^ 


^ 


....... 


...r~ 




..; .. 




^ 


:..t:: 


:::-■. 


;■■;:•: 


: IS 


'i ■■ 


^ 


.'."J.V.V, 




::;r-: 


: 1 






^ 


y\ 


-..I.:; 


JImd 
08' - 

97° ■ 


•::p:: 


:.r... 




/^ 


W;.-: 


-S7-' 




- - 










::p 






- > - 


...... . 


■ 








: 








..... 


.:Ii:r. 


rS6» 


— , — 


...t— 


. .:.— 


.,..,. 




. 




Th 


ree 


d 


aj 


r 


fe 


v^er. 





6AY<>0t«. 


1 


%. 


> 


A- 


t 


i 


7 


I 




r^ 


- ■ 








r'-T- 




: 


106*- 


i- 

•4 


-^ 


i ; 





pi— 


T" 


*~'. 


r4l° 


K)5° - 


.-i _ 




_i_ 


Z-' 


' ■* ■ 


rf- 


. 


: 


T; 


"l ~ 


- 




*■ 


-4-- 




-40" 


•jj 104° - 

1 '^'* 

^102° 

1 

|ioi° 

^ 100°. 
99° 

98" ■' 
97° - 


-f- 


-ri- 




■ ~ 


2 




j[ ; 




y 




1 . 


r . 




. ) • 


^Z 




l-l 




_^ 


- 


•^ ■ 


'V 


*"" 




' -■ 


■ 4- 


t" 


ilJ 


.tl 


' 


■~*~| 


h 


^ 


~1'~ 




-4-1 


-^r 


S 


4^ 


, 


j-ss"! 






^ 


^ 




:-j _ 


1- 


4 




: 




^ 






■- 


-x;-- 




-- 


. 




^ 


-V 


1%. 




X'. 


[ 


■1" 


V- 


V 


T 


...t 




', 




-_ 


. X.- 


-r; 






rSO» 




4- . 


^ 


-t 


- r— 


- \ 


• 1 


• 




T 


hre 


e d 


ay 


"eve 


»r. 







80 and 90 with a temperature of from 103° to 104°. The throat was frequently 
congested, but there was no coryza. Quinine had no effect on the course of the 
fever, nor did it possess any prophylactic virtue. One attack protects against 
a second to a great extent. There was no evidence that the disease was contagious, 
but Europeans and Gurkhas were most susceptible. 



320 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE BLOOD CHANGES. — McCarrison found the leucocytes decreased during 
the fall of the fever to 4,000 or less, the average in 20 cases having been 5,250. 
In thirty-three differential counts his results averaged the following : polynucleara 
61*7, lymphocytes 233, large mononuclears 14 and eosinophiles 27 per cent. In 
some slides of Chitral fever cases sent me several years ago by R. P. Wilson, I.M.S., 
I obtained very similar (hitherto unpublished) results, and noted the increase of 
the large mononuclears with an absence of malarial parasites ; so that in this 
disease, as well as in seven day fever and kala-azar, a large mononuclear increase 
occurs in the absence of malaria. 

DIAGNOSIS. — The characteristic temperature curve ; the absence of rigors, recur- 
rent paroxysms of fever, and of malarial parasites in the blood ; its incidence in the 
hot season being found chiefly among Europeans or newcomers : these are the 
principal points on which reliance must be placed in the differentiation of this fever. 

TREATMENT. — No drug of specific value in this disease is yet known, but 
salicylates appear to be indicated by the aching pains. 

In addition to the well defined seven day and three day types the following 
short fevers have also been described, confirmation of which is still awaited, but 
they may be mentioned in order to direct attention to the possibility of their being 
definite diseases. 

YEMPYENG.— In 1894 F. H. Baldocks, in a report on the health of Seoul, 
Corea, described under the name of Yempyeng a febrile disorder of seven or eight 
days' duration, characterized by extreme anaemia and prostration, and terminating 
in a crisis. It appears in March and ends with the beginning of the rainy season. 
The disease commences indefinitely with pains in the head and back, a tem- 
perature from 102° to 103°, the tongue being furred in the centre. Bihous vomiting 
and severe epistaxis occur, and delirium and coma in fatal cases. The mortality 
is high, but in hospital most of the patients recover after a crisis. Relapses do 
not occur, and no spirilla were found in the blood, while quinine was useless in 
the treatment. 

In 1904 A. Lingard and E. Jennings described piroplasma in men and in 
animals, which might or might not be accompanied by fever. Many of their 
drawings closely resembled malarial parasites, and confirmation of their observations 
are still wanting. 

In 1902 L. Braddon wrote on " An undescribed haematozoan of malaria in 
the Malay Peninsula," as a branched mycoid form being found both within as 
well as outside the red corpuscles. His observations were criticized by Tertius 
Clarke the same year. 

In 1906 C. Cobb, I.M.S., described " Ten day pigmentary fever of Bengal " 
as being widespread in the jails of that province during the hot months of from 
May to October. The temperature rises suddenly to 103° or 104°, with nausea, 
vomiting and intense frontal headache, and runs a continued course between 100° 
and 103° for eight to ten days. The pathognomonic feature of the disease *is the 



I 



I 



UNCLASSIFIED SHORT FEVERS— BIBLIOGRAPHY 321 

appearance of a dark brown discoloration of the face, with the butterfly distri- 
bution of lupus erythematosus, which only appears one or more weeks after the 
cessation of the fever, darkens gradually, and after six months begins to slowly 
disappear again. 

Confirmation of the above statements must be awaited before they can be 
taken as distinct types of tropical fevers. 

REFERENCES OF UNCLASSIFIED SHORT FEVERS 

I. SEVEN DAY FEVER. 

1905. Rogers, Leonard. A Peculiar Influenza-like Fever prevalent in Calcutta. Ind. Med 

Gaz., p. 407. 

1906. Rogers, Leonard. Malarial Fevers among Europeans in Calcutta, and their differen- 

tiation from the Seven Day Influenza-like Fever. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 81. 

1906. Megaw, J. W. D. Is Calcutta Seven Day Fever Dengue ? Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 429. 

1907. Rogers, Leonard. A Common Sporadic Seven Day Fever of Indian ports simulating 

Dengue. Trans Med. Chir. Soc, and Lancet, Vol. II. 

II. THREE DAY FEVER. 

1903. James, S. P. A Report on the Anti-Malarial Operations at Mian Mir (1901-2). Reports 

of the Malarial Commission of the Royal Society. 8th series. 
1906. McCarrison, R. Three Days Fever of Chitral. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 7. 

III. OTHER DOUBTFUL FEVERS. 

1904. Lingard, A., and Jennings, E. A Preliminary Note on Piroplasmosis Fotmd in Man 

and in Some of the Lower Animals. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 161. 
1902. Braddon, L. On an Undescribed Haematozoan of Malaria in the Malay Peninsula, 

and on Blood Plates as true Haematoblasts. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 229. 
1902. Clarke, J. Tertius. A Reply to Dr. Braddon's Paper on an Undescribed Haematozoan 

to be met with in the Malay Peninsula. Jour. Trop. Med., p. 327. 
1906. Cobb, R. Ten Days Pigmentary Fever of Bengal. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 136. 



21 



XV. THE INCIDENCE OF VARIOUS SPECIFIC FEVERS IN THE 

TROPICAL EAST 

I. TYPHUS 

There has been much difference of opinion among older writers on the question 
as to whether true typhus fever occurs in India or not. The terrible annual death 
rates of 200 and upwards per thousand, which used to occur in the insanitary 
and overcrowded jails of the Punjab, even as late as 1878, was attributed^ 
and apparently with good reason, in part, to the prevalence of typhus fever by 
some experienced medical officers, De Renzy having seen several outbreaks 
in which medical officers caught the infection. On the other hand, Norman 
Chevers in 1886 held with Morehead and Murchison that proof was still 
wanting of the existence of genuine typhus in India, although a number of 
cases considered to be typhus had been recorded in various parts of India, and 
he points out that in some of these instances the descriptions of the outbreaks, 
more closely resemble relapsing fever, the outbreak in the Yusufaie Valley north 
of Peshawar being a case in point. 

Coming to more recent times the following outbreaks of the disease have 
been reported, all of them from the Punjab. In 1892 L. J. Pisani, I.M.S., while 
in charge of the coolies working on the Chaman extension railway in Baloochistan, 
saw many fever cases which he attributed to the prevalence of both relapsing 
and typhus fever, the diagnosis of the latter disease being based on the facts that 
in one place forty out of forty-five died and in another the mortaHty was 40 to 50 
per cent., while 6 cases were seen with a dusky rash, which clinically more closely 
approached to typhus than anything else. In view of the typhus-like cases of 
relapsing fever which have been reported in India by Vandyke Carter and quite 
recently by McCowen it seems to be possible that all Pisani's Chaman Railway 
cases were relapsing fever without the addition of true typhus. 

In 1894 the same writer returned to the subject in the Transactions of the first 
Indian Medical Congress, and after referring to the numerous outbreaks in jails, 
described by Bryden in his statistical reports, he states that there is an endemic 
area in the north-east of India, including the Trans-Indus districts from Baloochis- 
tan to Ensufzai, the Hazara and Rawal Pindi districts and the Himalayan HiU 
tracts. In addition to the outbreak just referred to, he also describes one in the 
Hoti Madan lock-up from April to June 1888, during which he saw 9 cases with 
fever of fourteen to nineteen days' duration with a distinct morbilliform purphsh rash 
in 8 of these. Infection was shown by two constables on guard being attacked,. 



VARIOUS SPECIFIC FEVERS 323 

while the fever was also carried to the Peshawar jail in February, 1889, where 
47 cases with 7 deaths occurred. 

In the same publication, W. Vost, I. M.S., who had previously seen typhus 
in Glasgow, recorded an outbreak of the disease in Baloochistan among coolies 
between December, 1892, and April, 1893, beginning during cold weather when the men 
huddle closely together, several cases frequently occurring in the same tent. The 
fever was of a continued type from 102° to 104'5°, and lasted from thirteen to 
fourteen days, usually terminating by lysis. Five deaths occurred among 18 cases 
in hospital. 

R. Hendley, I.M.S., also dealt with this subject at the same Congress, and 
had no doubt about the occurrence of tjrphus in the Punjab, having notes of 
53 cases in the Peshawar Valley outbreak in 1891-2, the distinguishing features 
of the disease being unmistakably marked in the majority of the cases. It 
spread down with the traflfic in the spring from Afghanistan, attacking villages 
on high ground in not particularly malarial districts, spread rapidly in families, few 
of whose members escaped an attack, and also infected 2 persons by contact 
in the Peshawar jaU. The incubation period in severe cases was five to seven 
days, but somewhat longer in the milder ones ; the rash usually appeared on the 
fifth or sixth days, being weU seen in the Ught skinned Pathans, it became petechial 
in the later stages, and was confined to the chest, abdomen and inner sides of the 
arms, resembhng measles except that it was not cresentic. The temperature 
generally rose within the first forty-eight hours to 102° or 103°, and by the fifth 
day reached 104° or 105°, varying from ^ to 1° in the twenty-four hours, usually 
falling a degree or two when the rash appeared, and then becoming continued 
again, but at a lower height than at first, and terminating by crisis generally on 
the fourteenth day, but occasionally not until the twenty-first day, while 
in fatal cases death took place from the seventh to the fifteenth days. Among 
the symptoms noted were suffusion of the conjunctiva, thickly coated tongue tending 
to become dry, congestion of the lungs, with sometimes pneumonia and constipa- 
tion. Post mortems showed an absence of typhoid or other specific lesions. 
An outbreak 50 miles from Simla is also referred to by this writer. He states 
that in the 9 outbreaks in the Peshawar jail the disease always ceased in April 
with one exception, when it terminated on May 20, thus dying out with the onset 
of the hot season. 

The above outbreaks, taken with the frequent occurrence of severe epidemic 
fevers in the Punjab jaUs at earlier periods, leave no doubt that typhus fever does 
occur in the north-east of the Punjab, although with the recent great improve- 
ment in the sanitation of Indian jails, it now seldom comes under close medical 
observation. 

n. CEREBRO-SPINAL FEVER IN INDIA 

It is only within recent years that cerebro-spinal fever has attracted much 
attention in India, although its existence in the country has long been known. 
Norman Chevers in 1886 refers to 3 cases seen in Calcutta, but he had never 



324 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

known it occur in an epidemic form. Vandyke Carter records 4 cases seen in 
Bombay when he was working at famine fever in 1878, and describes fully 
the lesions found post mortem. He met with another sporadic case in 1885. 
According to C. J. Robertson-Milne, I.M.S. (to whose report on 2 years' special 
duty investigating the disease in India I am indebted for some references), the 
disease was first accurately described in this country in a report by H. P. Dimmock, 
I.M.S. (now Principal of the Grant Medical College, Bombay), in an unpublished 
report on an outbreak among the convicts of the Shikarpur jail in the cold season 
of 1883-4, while working on the Indus river bridge at Sukkur, 38 cases with 
27 deaths occurring, a mortaUty of 71 per cent. In 1886 an outbreak 
in the Nara jail in Sind was described, and in 1889, 14 cases with 11 deaths 
were reported by Morehead in the Hazariabagh jail in Chotta Nagpur. In 1884-5 
the disease was prevalent in Calcutta and neighbouring districts, and the Ahpore 
jail (in a suburb of Calcutta) was attacked in the latter year, the infection proving 
to be very persistent, as cases continued to occur there in no less than nine of the 
next ten years and again in 1898, since which time it appears to have abated. The 
Rungpore jail in North-Eastern Bengal was attacked in 1891, that of Raipur in 
the Central Provinces in 1899, while in the following seven years the disease has 
been reported from a number of jails in every important province of India, as 
will be seen from the references given at the end of this section. 

The most important, because most closely studied, of these jail outbreaks 
is the series of cases occurring in the Bhagulpur (Bihar) central jail from 1897 
to 1904, reported on by W. J. Buchanan, C. S. Stevens and E . A. R. Newman, 
all of the I.M.S., 100 cases with seventy deaths having been recorded during this 
period. The diplococcus of Weichselbaum was first isolated and identified by 
F. P. Drury, I.M.S., from one of these cases in 1899, and again by the writer in 
1900 and on subsequent occasions, thus proving the identity of the disease with 
that of temperate climates. A noteworthy feature of the Bhagulpur series, which 
has been pointed out by Stevens and confirmed by Newman, is the special incidence 
of the disease among those convicts who were employed in dusty forms of labour, 
which, together with the manner in which the infection has clung to the jail year 
after year, has led these writers to suggest that the organism of the disease fives 
for a long time in dust, through which the infection is carried, and they quote 
Germano's experiments on the long survival of the organism of the disease in dry 
dust as supporting their contention. AU other bacteriologists, however, are of 
the opinion that the diplococcus of Weichselbaum has extremely little resisting 
power. My own experience with the coccus isolated from cases in Bhagulpore 
and Calcutta agrees with the latter opinion. Moreover, Milne has repeated Ger- 
mano's experiment with organisms derived from Indian cases of cerebro-spinal 
fever and been quite unable to confirm them, for he only once succeeded in recover- 
ing the organism as late as the eleventh day, after mixing it with dust, his other 
experiments having given entirely negative results. Moreover, most of the Bhagul- 
pore cases of the disease occurred in the hottest and driest months, when the con- 
ditions are most unfavourable to the survival of the organism outside the body. 



CEREBROSPINAL MENINGITIS 325 

Further, many of the cases occurred in persons recently admitted to the jail, while 
the disease has been found to occur in the surrounding district. European workers 
have also recovered the organism from the noses and throats of healthy people, 
in much the same way as in the case of the closely aUied pneumococcus. The 
real relationship of dusty occupations to the incidence of cerebro-spinal fever 
in jails may therefore be due to its irritant effect serving as a predisposing rather 
than an exciting cause. 

In addition to the jail outbreaks, the disease has repeatedly appeared among 
coolies in the Calcutta emigration depots, and has been especially studied there 
by E. H. Brown, I.M.S., and myself, the presence of the diplococcus of Weichsel- 
baum having been repeatedly verified both by lumbar puncture and post mortem 
by me, as well as in other sporadic cases occurring during the last six years in 
Calcutta hospitals. These coolies come chiefly from Bengal, the United Provinces 
and the Central Provinces, and they probably bring the infection with them, 
in some instances, as shown by the attacks occasionally occurring very soon 
after their arrival in Calcutta. 

The clinical features of the disease among these coohes has been studied by E. H. 
Brown, who divides them into four types. Firstly, fulminant cases commencing 
suddenly with pain in the head and back of neck, without always any retraction, 
temperature 103° or more without a rigor, frequent vomiting, and death in five 
to eighteen hours, only congestion of the cerebral membranes being found post 
mortem. They may be mistaken for heatstroke or plague, and comprised 7 out 
of 53 cases. Secondly, acute cases, twenty-five in number, showing the typical 
characters of the disease, and ending fatally in 80 per cent, in two to six days. 
These commenced as in the first class, but with retraction of the head and 
Kernig's sign well marked, decubitus being lateral with legs drawn up, and ending 
with coma. Thirdly, 15 cases of a sub-acute or chronic type, with more gradual 
onset, irregular remittent temperature, retraction of the head and drowsiness, and 
frequently petechial or macular spots. Great emaciation ensues ; as much as 60 
per cent, of the entire number eventually died. Lastly, in 6 cases an atypical 
course was seen, commencing suddenly with high fever, but ending in rapid 
recovery as if the disease had aborted. This occurred mostly in young persons. 

DIAGNOSIS. — In tjrpical cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis there can be httle 
difficulty in recognizing the cases clinically. In doubtful ones the presence of 
leucocytosis of the polynuclear type (over 90 per cent.) often is of value. In 
one case I examined the blood to decide if the disease was typhoid or not. Of 
still greater value is lumbar puncture, which enables the diplococcus of Weischelbaum 
to be found microscopically in large numbers in the polynuclear leucocytes, and 
cultures to be made on glycerine agar, at least 1 cc. of fluid being added to 
each of several tubes of glycerine agar, when a few colonies only are usually 
obtained. By this measure as much as 10 cc. or more of fluid i3 often removed; 
this reheves the retraction of the head for a time. Moreover, repetition of the 
process certainly appears to have a good effect, and may save a few patients. A 



326 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



strong needle, about three inches in length, is required for the purpose, and it 
should be passed inwards and slightly upwards and towards the middle line 
through the second or third lumbar space. The fluid will readily escape by its 
ovv^n pressure, and no suction should be applied. 

PROPHYLAXIS will remain uncertain until the mode of infection is clearly 
understood. 

m. INFLUENZA 

All the older great epidemics of influenza in Europe spread from the East through 
Russia, but the first in which the course of the disease in Asia is given by Leichten- 
stern, in NothnageVs Encyclopedia of Medicine, is that of 1830-33, which originated 
in China, and spread by the East Indies and India to Russia, while that of 1836-37 
affected Java and further India. It is not, however, until we come to the last great 
pandemic beginning in 1889-90 that we have any accurate records of influenza 
in the East. This originated in the interior of Turkestan in May, 1889, and spread 
once more through Russia to Europe, across to America, and back to the East, to 
reach Hong-Kong by February, 1890. From that great port it travelled by ship 
to China, further India, and the East Indies, to reach Bombay in India proper at 
the end of February, the United Provinces and Calcutta in the beginning of March, 
and Burma early in April : thus encirchng the globe within a single year. 

The disease continued to be widespread in India during the next two years and 
was very prevalent in the early months of 1892, when it caused a marked increase 
in the mortaUty ascribed to " fever " in Assam during March and April, which are 
usually the most healthy months of the year. In order to ascertain the seasonal 
prevalence and characters of the disease in India I have analysed all the cases 
which were admitted to the European General Hospital, Calcutta, for the year 
1892, with the following results. 

SEASONAL PREVALENCE IN CALCUTTA IN 1892.— Table XXXII shows the 
monthly prevalence of influenza in Calcutta in 1892. 



I 



TABLE XXXII.— MONTHLY INCIDENCE 


OF ] 


[NFLUENZA IN 


CALCUTTA. 


1 

1 


d 
1 


MarcIi. 
April. 


1 


1 




August. 
September. 


1 


1 

a 

o 
125 


1 

i 

Q 




Cases . . 6 


54 


33 I 1 





1 ? 


' 1 » 





84 



Thus, a few cases occurred in January, near the end of the month, while over half of 
the annual total were admitted during February, and one-third more in March. The 
cases began to decrease after the middle of March and only one patient was admitted 
during April who had contracted the disease during the previous month. From April 
to August no new infections arose, but in September, and to a less extent in October, 
a number of fever cases were returned as influenza. On examining the records 



INFLUENZA 327 

closely, however, it was ascertained that all these autumnal cases had been diagnosed 
by one of the three medical officers of the hospital, no cases having been met with 
by the other two. Further, the lung and throat symptoms, which had been nearly 
constantly recorded in the early part of the year, were conspicuously absent in these 
later cases, while their temperature charts were in many of them t3rpical of either 
malarial or seven day fever, and did not correspond with those of the influenza 
cases seen in February and March. It is therefore extremely doubtful if any of 
these later returned cases were really influenza, while the great majority of 
them were certainly not that fever. For this reason ? has been entered in the 
table against the months of September and October. 

In 1906 1 also met with a few cases of influenza which all occurred in February, 
March and early April, as in the. 1892 outbreak. This seasonal distribution is in 
agreement with the much greater prevalence of the disease during the winter months 
in Europe, and the complete disappearance of influenza in the hot months of the 
year in Calcutta is noteworthy and important, for it is not until the hot weather 
is well established that the seven day fever appears, only to disappear again towards 
the end of the rainy season in October or November, when the air temperature cools 
down considerably. This divergence of the seasonal incidence of these two diseases 
simplifies their differentiation greatly, for in its mode of onset with pains and aches, 
and in its spread, seven day fever so closely resembles influenza that I was led in 
my preliminary description of the former disease to provisionally call it " a pecuUar 
influenza-like fever." 

BRIEF CLINICAL DESCRIPTION 

The records of the influenza cases in Calcutta in 1892 show no important differ- 
ences in the disease from the type seen in Europe at the same period. Only the 
principal characteristics, therefore, require mention here, especially those in which 
it differs from other common fevers of the East. 

The sudden onset, often with chilliness or actual rigor, with severe pains in the 
back or all over the body, was a well marked feature. More significant still was the 
great frequency of respiratory and throat complications, both of which are but very 
rarely met with in malaria and seven day fever. Thus, in over one-third of the cases 
rales or rhonchi were heard in the lungs, and in 10 per cent, more the breathing was 
recorded as being harsh. Cough, often of a very persistent nature, was almost 
always present, and frequently very troublesome. Pneumonia occurred in 3 of the 
94 cases, proving fatal in one of them, while meningitis produced death in a second, 
and exhaustion in a third case. Another very prominent symptom was congestion 
or inflammation of the throat, which was recorded in about half the cases, although in 
a good many the records were deficient. In fact, in less than 10 per cent, were both 
the lungs and the throat recorded as being healthy; these two symptoms being many 
times more common in influenza than in any other fever of the tropics it is likely 
to be confused with, so that they are of the greatest diagnostic significance. Coryza 
was also not infrequently noted. 



328 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



THE TEMPERATURE CURVE. — The course and duration of the fever varied 
greatly, more particularly when complications were present. It was most frequently 
of a low remittent or intermittent type, rising in the afternoon and falling at night 
as shown in Charts 79 to 81. In no case was anything approaching the continued 



Chart 79. 




Influenza. 



saddle-back type chart of seven day fever seen in influenza. I In more severe 
cases irregular remittent fever of long duration may occur, especially if complicated 



Chabt 80. 



DAY «l b\4 


—1 




Jir 


— ? 


f~~ 


k 


7 


■ 1 




r 






..4.._ 




' 




' 






::;i;-; 












::i::: 


:::rr. 




f ■ 


~t 


- J 


:-_ : 








rfl 


•£ 


-1 ' 






' 1 ■ 


*-- : 


•q;.;. 


irrr 


~; " 




r 






'?,-z 




Ji' 




r|-r 




-.{.... 


.-If;;; 


:._ 


t 


: 


> 
i 


lOS" - 


■zB 


.•±r 


']"• 


_£-.. 










:SX-- 


1 ■ 


._»- 


. 


T" 


: t 


: 


-pz" ■ 


— i — 


iE 




^ — 




h:. 


* * - • 


— L... 


'::%'z 


r- 


1 


: 


::t:: 


.;-.f.v. 


n 


h 


-*: 


'A 




■r'E: 


:::!::: 


j-' 


* * 


r 


iioo° 


■.;:t:;: 

-f" 


p 


\ 


/\ 


'|a 


M 


+ — - 


..U- 


~B 


- 




L, 










-i 


</ 




m 


P 


-V'T:"." 


, 


: 


: 




KrMrf 


-j- 




r 




; 


A 


i^i 




, 


:. 








]i - ' 


' 


- 


_. . 


t ^ 


. 




. 




97° - 


::%-. 


..j.... 




-|-^ 


*- 


I ,-- 






' 


- 


i 






^ 




• - + 


■ r . 


z* . 


:r -: 


rl;-;- 


^^ 


t: 


- 


; 



741° 



-40- 



r59°' 



-58= 



-57° 



rSG" 



Influenza. 



by pneumonia, as in the fatal case shown in Chart 82. The markedly remittent 
character of this curve is partly due to the adoption of the terribly depressant 
treatment by antipyrin and antifebrin of the early nineties, which is now, happily . 
rarely used in the tropics. 



INFLUENZA 



329 



The total duration of the fever both before and after admission to hospital 
in 76 cases in which the data were available showed 35 per cent, of three days or 
less and 17 per cent, more of but four or five days' duration ; so that in over 50 
per cent it did not exceed five days. In 17 per cent, it was from six to eight days, 



Chakt 81. 




Influenza. 



and in the remaining 30 per cent, over eight days in length. On comparing these 
figures with similar data for seven day fever given on page 310 it will be seen^that 
only 13 per cent, of the latter lasted less than six days, and no less than 80 per 
cent, from six to eight days. The duration of influenza, therefore, is much .more 



Chart 82. 




Influenza complicated by pneumonia, terminating fatally. 

variable than that of seven day fever, being commonly shorter, but also liable to 
run on much longer in the severe and complicated cases. 



330 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



BLOOD CHANGES. — The haemoglobin and red corpuscles are nearly always 
normal. Leucocytosis does not occur except when influenza is complicated by 
croupous pneumonia. In the more frequent catarrhal pneumonia only a shght 
increase or else none at all is found. As both typhoid and seven day fever also show 
an absence of leucocytosis these blood changes have very Little diagnostic value. 
According to nearly all workers the influenza bacillus is absent from the peripheral 
blood ; so that cultures from the blood afford no positive diagnostic help. 

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF INFLUENZA.— The occurrence of the disease 
exclusively in the colder months ; the frequency of cough and of lung and throat 
complications ; and the irregular low remittent or daily intermittent temperature 
curve, as opposed to the characteristic charts of malaria and seven day fever, 
will usually suffice for the differential diagnosis of influenza. 

TREATMENT. — This does not [differ from that of the disease in temperate 
climates, except that severe inflammatory lung complications are more rarely 
met with. 

RHEUMATIC FEVER. — Tropical countries differ in a remarkable way from 
temperate in the almost complete absence of rheumatic fever. Rheumatic fever 
does occur in hill stations in the Himalayas with European temperatures, but 
is scarcely ever seen in the hot plains ; as a result of the absence of both 
rheumatic fever and scarlet fever heart diseases differ widely in their incidence. 
Other affections due mainly to syphilitic atheroma are very common, and 
organic lesions of the mitral valves proportionately rarer. 

IV. PREVALENCE OF THE EXANTHEMATOUS DISEASES IN THE EAST 



TABLE XXXIII. 



-MONTHLY AND QUARTERLY PREVALENCE OF EXANTHEMATA 
IN EUROPEANS IN CALCUTTA. 





03 

S 

§ 






April. 
May. 


CD 


2 


& 

< 

7 


i 

S 
m 

4 


c 

% 

o 
o 

O 


i 

Si 

e 

> 

o 


.a 
S 
o 



"3 
o 


Scarlet fever . 
Measles 


25 


24 


49 


31 12 


5 


4 


13 


19 





Quarterly 
German measles . 
Mumps 


5 
2 


98 

7 

23 
3 


11 


48 
4 5 


3 


2 


13 

6 


5 


— 


36 


1 
4 


195 
1 


Quarterly . 
Hooping Cough 


12 
3 2 

8 
1 5 


3 


4 


13 
9 


11 


6 




7 


48 


^^ Quarterly . 
Chicken pox . 


6 


5 
17 


6 


— 


24 
2 


— 


5 


17 

1 


21 


54 


Quarterly . 
Diphtheria 


3 


29 


2 


6 
1 1 

3 


1 


— 


2 


— 


— 


27 
3 


3 


64 


Quarterly . 


5 




— 






6 




14 



SCARLET FEVER 331 

The total and seasonal prevalence of the various acute exanthematous diseases 
in the tropical East differ greatly from those of temperate parts of Europe and 
America. A brief account of the main variations may therefore be of use to medical 
men practising in those parts. Table XXXIII showing the monthly distribution 
of this group of diseases in the European Hospital, Calcutta, for the last three 
years, for which I am indebted to Assistant-Surgeon A. A. E. Baptist, will serve 
to illustrate the main points. 

SCARLET FEVER IN INDIA. — Unlike measles and the other exanthematous 
diseases of temperate climates, scarlet fever is very rarely met with in India, its 
very occurrence in the country having been called in question as late as 1871, when 
a controversy on the subject arose in the columns of the Indian Medical Gazette 
over a case reported to have been seen in Simla, and several very definite instances 
of the disease being imported into India by trooping ships, and spreading to a 
Hmited extent, were recorded. Thus 13 cases were reported by Gibson with 
typical rash on the second day, strawberry tongue, inflammation of the tonsils, 
pharynx and saUvary gland, albuminuria and dropsy in 6 cases, and discharges 
from the nose and ears causing deafness in 1 instance, all occurring among the 
children of a British regiment. Again, the disease broke out at both Sialkote 
and Jullunder in the Punjab among the children who came to India by the 
same trooper, on whose voyage several cases of scarlatina had occurred, the attacks 
being very similar to those just mentioned, while several fatal cases occurred. 
Since that time many similar importations of the disease have taken place, some 
of which appear to have been due to infection from clothes, etc., through the post 
from infected houses in England ; but it only gives rise to very limited outbreaks 
and rapidly dies out. 

On the other hand, a careful inquiry from the most experienced medical men 
in Calcutta in 1871, including Norman Chevers, Fayrer, Ewart and Edmondstone 
Charles, revealed a general agreement that scarlatina had not been seen in Calcutta, 
although cases of the dengue-hke red fever described by E. Goodeve had some- 
times been mistaken for it. Since that date a few cases have been returned annually 
among British troops, isolated ones have been reported in Calcutta by R. D. 
Murray, Koilas Chander Bose, A. Caddy and J. Nield Cook, a micrococcus having 
been isolated in the last two observers, which is said to have produced the Hendon 
disease in calves inoculated with it. A very limited outbreak in 1902 was reported 
from''Ranchi in Chotta Nagpur at a height of 2,000 feet by R. H. Maddox, I.M.S. 
No cases were admitted to the Calcutta European Hospital in the last three years. 
The disease appears to be equally rare in Southern China and other tropical parts. 

It is clear, then, that scarlatina does occur in India as an imported infection, 
but that it is usually of a mild nature, and shows no tendency to spread widely, but on 
the contrary rapidly dies out, especially in the hotter parts of India. There is 
no evidence that it ever becomes an indigenous disease, and rarely if ever attacks 
natives of the country. 

MEASLES. — In marked contrast to scarlet fever, measles is common all over 



332 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

the tropical East, and especially in India. It is the most frequently met with 
exanthem in Calcutta, 195 cases having been seen in the European hospital in the last 
three years 1904-06. Their seasonal distribution is noteworthy, five-sixths of the 
cases occurred in the six colder months from November to April, while they were 
much fewer in the hot and rainy seasons. The British Naval reports show 41 
cases of measles in the East Indian squadron, and 16 in the China station, in the 
ten years from 1895 to 1905. 

GERMAN MEASLES. — Only one case of German measles occurs in the Calcutta 
Hospital series, but the disease was fairly prevalent in Calcutta in the cold season 
of 1906-7 ; but was usually so mild as to be treated at home. It appears to be 
still more common on the China stations, where 58 cases occurred in ten years in 
the naval squadron. 

MUMPS. — Another common disease in India is mumps, which attacks natives 
as well as Europeans, being far from rare in the native army in the cold season. In 
the Calcutta Hospital most cases were seen in the early part of the year, and fewest 
in the autumn months. The disease has also occurred in China ports in some 
years in the navy. According to Clemow it is probably rare in the East Indian 
Islands. 

HOOPING COUGH. — Hooping cough also occurs throughout the year in Cal- 
cutta, being most frequent in the rainy season, in which respect it differs from the 
rest of this class of diseases. I have not found it recorded in the naval reports 
for the China station, but Clemow states that it is not rare in that country. 

CHICKEN-POX. — Another common disease throughout the tropical East 
is chicken-pox, and here there is often great difficulty in distinguishing its severer 
forms from mild and modified small-pox. The blood changes in these two con- 
ditions are worthy of closer study from this point of view than they have yet 
received. Chicken-pox is also most prevalent in the cold season, 44 out of 64 
Calcutta cases having been admitted in the three coldest months of the year from 
December to February, while very few occurred in the hot and rainy months. 

SMALL-POX. — Small-pox is endemic in the tropical East, where it has been 
known for many centuries. In India the majority of elderly natives still show 
pitting of the face produced by the disease, although this is much less common 
among the young adults and children, thanks to vaccination. Inoculation marks 
Dan be found on the forearms of many of the older Mahommedans, especially in 
Eastern Bengal. Small-pox is never absent for more than a few months at a time, 
from Calcutta, where the maximum incidence is during the dry, cold and hot weather 
months from October to the following May, and the minimum in the remaining mon- 
soon period, although a marked dechne occurs before the rains actually set in. An 
interesting account of the disease in Calcutta has recently been recorded by J. C. 
Vaughan, I. M.S. 



» 



VARIOUS SPECIFIC FEVERS— BIBLIOGRAPHY 333 

DIPHTHERIA. — Diphtheria is fortunately much less common in the tropical 
East than in temperate parts of Europe and America. It does occur in Calcutta, 
and also in China, being also much more frequent in the cold season, and especially 
rare in the rains. It may occur in hill stations at any season. Antitoxic serum 
in sufficient doses has just as good an effect in India as in other places ; it 
should therefore be always available where likely to be required. 

REFERENCES TO THE INCIDENCE OF VARIOUS SPECIFIC FEVERS IN THE EAST 

I. TYPHUS FEVER. 

1886. Chevers, Norman. Commentary on the Diseases of India, p. 81. 

1892. Pisani, L. J. Report on the Fever on the Chaman Extension Railway. Ind. Med. 

Gaz., p. 1. 
1894. Pisani, L. J. Typhus Fever in Hoti Mardan. Trans. Ind. Med. Congress, p. 135. 
1894. Vost, W. Typhus Fever in Baluchistan. Trans. Ind. Med. Congress, p. 137. 
1894. Hendley, H. Typhus Fever in India. Trans. Ind. Med. Congress, p. 138. 

II. CEREBRO-SPINAL FEVER. 

1882. Carter, Vandyke. Spirillum Fever. Appendix B, p. 436. 
1886. Chevers, Norman. Commentary on Diseases of India, p. 121. 

1886. Carter, Vandyke. Notes on a Case of Cerebro-Spinal Fever in Bombay, with Autopsy. 
Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 358, and Trans, of the Bombay Med. and Phys. Soc., No. VIII. 

1886. Sanders, Dr. Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 151. 

1887. Lethbridge, Dr. Reference to Report on eighteen cases of Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis 

in the Alipore Jail. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 152. 

1890. Morehead, James. On Cerebro-Spinal Fever in the Hazariabagh Jail from 1881-9. 

Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 265, and Trans. First Ind. Med. Congress, p. 146 (with discussion). 

1891. Banerjee, M. Note on Two Cases of Cerebro-Spinal Fever in the Rungpore Jail. Ind. 

Med. Gaz., p. 263. 
1898. Buchanan, W. J. An Outbreak of Cerebro-Spinal Fever in India. Brit. Med. Jour., 
Vol. II, p. 871 Jour, of Trop. Med., Vol. I, No. 1 (1899) and Dublin Jour, of Med. 
Sci., Feb., 1899. 

1900. Henvey, W. An Outbreak of Cerebro-Spinal Fever in the Raipur Central Jail (Central 

Provinces). Ind. Med. Gaz., pp. 210 and 258. 

1901. Buchanan, W. J. Contribution to the Etiologj' of Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis. Jour. 

Hygiene, April. 
1901. Stevens, C. R. A Report on the Epidemic of Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis in the Bhagul- 

pur Central Jail, 1899-90. Reference Ind. Med. Gaz., 1901. 
1901. Sen, Hem Chandra. Notes on fourteen csises of Cerebro-Spinal Fever (Calcutta). 

Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 294. 
1901. Brown, E. H. Report on the Epidemic of Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis in Calcutta. 

Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 4. 

1901. Rogers, Leonard. Note on Bacteriological Examinations of Cerebro-Spinal Fever 

Cases in the Calcutta Emigration depots, 1900. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 11. 

1902. Williamson, J. R. Some Cases of Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis (Miraj, Western India). 

Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 94. 
1902. Newman, E. A. R. Report on Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis in Bhagulpur Central Jail, 

1900-1. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 340. 
1902. Browning-Smith, S. A Case of Cerebro-Spinal Fever SimuUiting Poisoning (Jhelum, 

Punjab). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 389. 



334 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

1903. Barry, C. C. Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis in Burma. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 173. 

1904. Stodart, T. Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis in Akyab Jail (Burma). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 99. 
1906. Robertson-Milne, C. J. Report on Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis in India. 

Grovt. of India Press. (Includes full history of the disease in India, and numerous 



references. ) 



III. INFLUENZA. 



1890. Bose, Kailas Chunder. Influenza, as seen in Calcutta, and its Treatment. Ind. Med. 
Gaz., p. 181. 

1890. Moir, D. M. Malarial Fever and Influenza at Fort Tregear, Lushai Hills. Ind. Med. 

Gaz., p. 353. 

1891. Cantlie, James. On M. J. T. Roe's Theory that Influenza is Endemic in China. Med. 

Reports China Imper. Maritime Customs, No. 42., p. 37 
1897. Influenza Recorded as Epidemic in Swatow. Med. Reports China Imper. Maritime 
Customs, No. 54, p. 21. 

IV. SCARLET FEVER. 

1871. Gibson, G. J. Scarlatina in Poona. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 156. 

1871. Leading Article on Scarlatina in Calcutta. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 216. 

1871. Lxmdy, E. H. Scarlatina at Sialkote (Pimjab). Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 177. 

1872. Garden, Dr. Four Cases of Scarlatina at Saharanpur. Ind. Med. Gaz., May. 
1876. Murray, R. D. Three Cases of Scarlatina in Calcutta. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 119. 
1886. Chevers, Norman. Commentary on Diseases of India, p. 56 (with references). 
1889. Bose, Koilas C. Scarlet Fever in Calcutta. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 151. 

1893. Hatch, W. K. Bombay Medical Society. Four Cases in Bombay. 
1895. Birch. Management and Medical Treatment of Children in Calcutta, India. 
1899. Caddy, A. and Cook, J. N. Scarlatina in India. Ind. Med. Gaz., p. 271. 
1899. Discussion on the Prevalence of Scarlet Fever in India. Jour. Trop. Med., pp. 21 and 
42, and April, 1900. 

1901. Maxwell, J. Preston. On the Absence of Certain Diseases from the Changpaco Valley 

and its environs (China). 

1902. Maddox, R. H. Note on a Case of Scarlet Fever in Fanchi, Chota Nagpur. Ind. 

Med. Gaz., p. 470. 

V. SMALL-POX. 
1907. Vaughan, J. C- On the Incidence of Small-pox in Calcutta. Ind. Med. Gaz., p., 241* 



CHAPTER XVI 

Addendum Containing the More Important Work Published 

during 1908—09 

KALA-AZAR 

Very little advance has been made in our knowledge of this subject since the 
dehvery of my Milroy lectures in 1907. Patton has published some further observa- 
tions on the development of the parasite in the bed-bug, and made a most careful 
study of other flagellate protozoa met with in the intestinal canal of these insects, 
which are liable to be confused with the human parasite. The infrequency with 
which he obtained developmental forms of the Leishman-Donovan bodies in bed- 
bugs, fed on cases of kala-azar, showing numerous parasites in their peripheral 
blood, is remarkable, and leaves some doubt as to whether this is the common 
and only mode of infection. On the other hand, the Assam coolie lines, in which 
the infected houses were dealt with by Dr. Dodds Price by measures directed against 
bed-bugs, have remained free from infection for over three years, while in the control 
line not so treated some cases subsequently developed. Moreover, since the rela- 
tions of poor European kala-azar patients in Calcutta have been warned against 
this possible source of infection fewer recurrences of cases in the same family have 
been noted in Calcutta, so that it is at least clear that this prophylactic measure 
should never be neglected in our present state of knowledge. 

Of greater interest is the discovery in Algeria of a disease resembling kala-azar, 
in the spleens of the patients, bodies similar to the parasites of the latter affection are 
found. Moreover, these forms have been cultivated by Nicolle on Novy and Mac- 
Neal's medium, while dogs have also been found to harbour the parasite. Patton 
has inoculated dogs with kala-azar parasites with negative results, and the Algerian 
cases are all met with in children. It therefore seems probable that the North 
African disease is due to a slightly different form of parasite from the Indian one, 
and the suitable term Infantile splenomegaly has been suggested for it. Dr Row 
of Bombay has cultivated the parasite of Delhi boil, and Carter has confirmed this 
work. As Dr. Row's cultures developed well in the presence of cocci and bacteria, 
and at a higher temperature than those of kala-azar, it is clear that they are a differ- 
ent species, and that kala-azar and Delhi boil are quite independent diseases. 

THE LEUCOPAENIA OF KALA-AZAR. 

In very late cases presenting a marked degree of anaemia the relative reduction 
of the white corpuscles in proportion to the red is naturally less marked, although 

33S 22 



336 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



the absolute decrease is still very great in uncomplicated cases. Table XXXIV gives 
the figures of 97 cases verified by spleen puncture, classified in accordance with 
the degree of anaemia present. 



TABLE XXXIV. 



-THE LEUCOPAENIA OF I^ALA-AZAR IN RELATION TO THE 
DEGREE OF ANAEMIA 





+4,000,000 
red 


+ 2,500,000 red 


—2,500,000 red 


Total 


V 


1 

"a, 
S 
o 
O 


1 

6 
8 


1 
e 

o 
U 


1 

"ft 
S 
8 




T3 
1 

"Si 
S 


"5, 
S 
8 


1! 


1 

% 

s 

o 


1 

s 

1 




1-750 .... 
1-750-1-1000 
1-1000 . 1-1500 . 
Less than 1-1500 . 


1 


9 


2 
2 

8 


6 
34 


15% 

85% 


6 
3 
2 


3* 

9 

11 


13% 
39% 

48% 


9 

5 

10 


3 
15 

55 


41% 
20-5O/o 
75-4% 



* Recovering cases. 

It appears from these data that in no uncomplicated case were there more 
than 1 white to 750 red, while in only three patients with less than 2| million red 
corpuscles were they under 1 to 1000, and they were improving. In the inter- 
mediate class, with between 1 to 1000 and 1 to 1500, all had less than 4 million red 
corpuscles, while only 15 per cent, of those with between 2^ and 4 millions showed 
this proportion of leucocytes. Among those, however, with under 2| million red, 
20 per cent, showed only this comparatively slight degree of relative reduction of the 
white corpuscles, while 75 per cent, showed less than 1 to 1500. I find, however, 
that in a number of true malarial cachexia cases of which I have similar blood counts, 
in no case was the proportion of white to red corpuscles as low as 1 to 1000, while 
in all but one of those with less than 2| million red corpuscles they numbered over 
1 to 750, and were commonly above 1 to 500. It is clear from this that in a patient 
whose red corpuscles are reduced to below 2J millions, a relative reduction of the 
white to the red to below 1 to 1000 is strong evidence of kala-azar as against chronic 
malaria, and this fact enhances the value of this simple diagnostic aid. 

STAPHYLOCOCCUS VACCINE TREATMENT.— I have previously pointed out 
that remarkable recoveries occasionally take place in kala-azar after the occurrence of 
some septic infection, such as cancrum oris, of which case 6 (page 58) is a good 
example. This, however, only occurs if a marked increase of the leucocytes accom- 
panies the process. Moreover, I have known the parasites to almost or even entirely 
disappear from the spleen after such infections. As staphylococci are the most fre- 
quent organisms in these complications, I have used a vaccine made of the organisms 
idlled by heating at 60°C. for an hour, in accordance with Sir Almroth Wright's 



KALA-AZAR 337 

procedure, in order to increase the polynuclear leucocytes and to try to kill off 
the parasites by their phagocytic action and by the toxins thus administered h3rpoder- 
mically. In 14 cases treated thus during 1908, thanks mainly to the kindness of 
Colonel G. F. A., Harris, I. M.S., in 12 a marked increase of the leucocytes, and es- 
pecially of the polynuclear, was obtained, amounting usually to double or treble the 
original number. The fever frequently at the same time fell to a low intermittent 
type or to normal, and weight was commonly gained. Unfortunately the patients were 
nearly all natives, who could not be kept under observation after improvement 
had set in, so I am unable to say how long the good results lasted, but ten certainly 
relapsed and died at later dates. All that can be said is that this plan has given 
me more favourable results than any other, and as it is in imitation of one of nature's 
methods of cure it is worthy of further trial. I begin with from one hundredth 
to one fiftieth of a one day agar slope tube of staphylococci, in from 2| to 5 
minims (250 to 500 millions), and increased by 2^ minims up to 10 to 15 minim doses 
every week or ten days. I also tried Coley's fluid, but found it increased the anaemia 
and tendency to haemorrhages, while the leucocyte increase was of much shorter 
duration, thus I prefer the staphylococcus preparation. A very old native treatment 
is the production of open ulcers over the spleen with the actual cautery, and the 
number of adults seen with such scars, but without any remaining enlargement of 
the abdomen, points to its having considerable efficacy, and favours the use of the 
vaccine, as a more convenient and safer remedy of the same nature. Another 
advantage of this treatment is that it can be readily combined with any drug 
which may be fancied, or alternated with them if either appear to be losing their 
effect at any given time. I usually inject over the enlarged spleen, or in the upper 
arm, but the forearm should be avoided as the injections are much more painful 
in that part. 

Atoxyl, and soamin have been used by several observers, with occasional re- 
coveries, but no striking success can be attributed to their use, any more 
than in sleeping sickness. We are still much in want of a specific drug for this 
lingering disease. 

SLEEPING SICKNESS 

GLOSSINA PALPALIS ; THE CARRIER OF THE TRYPANOSOMA GAMBIENSE; 
ITS DISTRIBUTION AND HABITS.— Now that it is clear that the occurrence of 
sleeping sickness is so intimately related to the distribution of a particular species 
of tsetse fly, the Glossina palpalis, while the infection is probably rarely carried by 
other biting insects, even other varieties of tsetse flies ; the distribution and life 
history of this dangerous species has become of the greatest importance in the pro- 
phylaxis of the disease. If Africa could be purged of this fly, sleeping sickness 
would probably soon cease to exist, just as the annihilation of all anopheles in a 
country or island would prevent malaria. Unfortunately the task in either case is 
usually impossible, yet much may be done by reducing the number of the pests, 
or by protecting against their bites. 



338 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

The Glossina, or Tsetse fly, is a blood-sucking genus peculiar to tropical Africa. 
They are brownish or greyish-brown in colour with a prominent proboscis. In the 
male the external genitalia form a prominent knob beneath the end of the abdomen. 
When in the resting position they can be distinguished from all other blood-sucking 
diptera by the fact that the brownish wings lie closed flat over one another down 
the back, like the blades of a pair of scissors, while the proboscis, ensheathed in the 
palpi, projects horizontally in front of the head. The closed wings extend behind 
the body of the fly, giving it an elongated appearance. On the other hand, in Sto- 
moxys the prominent proboscis is not ensheathed in palpi, and is much more slender 
than that of Glossina, while they are also much smaller, and the closed wings diverge 
at an angle Hke those of the common house fly. A genus of small horse flies, the 
Haematopota, also somewhat closely resembles Glossina when at rest, but here again 
the wiftgs do not close over one another, but meet together at the base, like the 
roof of a house, while they diverge slightly at the tips. The other genera of biting 
flies differ still more widely from the Glossina. 

The GLOSSINA PALPALIS itself differs from the seven other known species 
in that its body is almost black, with the exception of a pale patch on the dorsum 
of the abdomen, while the black colour of all five segments (tarsi) of the hind- 
most pair of legs is also characteristic. The colour of the abdomen in nearly all 
the other species is of a paler shade marked with sharply defined dark brown bands, 
which are interrupted in the middle line. Reproduction takes place by the female 
dropping a single larva at a time, which creeps into loose earth (or the crevice in a 
plant when laid in shrubs or palms) and in a few hours becomes a pupa, the perfect 
insect emerging from the chrysalis after five or six weeks. The female fly may cer- 
tainly live for three months and drop from eight to ten larvae at intervals of about 
ten days. The pupae of G. palpalis were first found in nature by Dr. A. G. Bagshawe 
in 1906 on the shores of Lake George in Uganda. The usual position was at a depth 
of half to one inch in light soil within ten to twenty-five yards of water, in the 
shelter of banana plants or shrubs, generally on a sloping bank. On the West 
Coast of Africa, with its much heavier rainfall, Zuspitza found them in the forks of 
trees or in cracks in the bark and in the angles of the leaf -sheaths of palms at a height 
of from a few inches to ten feet from the ground. Prolonged humidity or immersion 
in water, as well as exposure to the sun killed the pupae. 

CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE DISTRIBUTION OF GLOSSINA PALPALIS.— 
The fly is found from sea level up to about 4000 feet near the Equator, but at lesser 
elevations in higher latitudes. It only occurs close to open water where there is 
also shade. In swampy reed-grown lakes or rivers it does not flourish. The shade 
of shrubs, trees or long grass is essential for it. They are more numerous 
in the rainy season, and much decrease soon after the dry period sets in. A high 
degree of air moisture is favourable to it, so it is very abundant on the north-west 
shore of the Victoria Nyanza, which is kept damp by the south-east wind across 
the lake, while it is absent from most of the much drier south-east shore. It extends 



r 



SLEEPING SICKNESS 339 

up along the banks of open rivers running into the great lakes, but ceases abruptly 
on the high escarpment to the east of Uganda. More important still is the fact that 
the fly is not as a rule found more than twenty yards from water, but if forest or 
brushwood extend far from the water's edge the range of the insect is more exten- 
ded. Moreover they will follow native carriers for three hundred yards, or rarely 
even further from the water if the track is well shaded, and they may thus reach 
villages at some little distance fr5m rivers or lakes. Railway trains may con- 
vey them many miles, while they can also be carried by natives in canoes. They 
travel long distances along the banks of rivers. Glossina palpalis as a rule only 
appears during the daytime, being most abundant between the hours of 10 a.m. and 
4.30 p.m., especially in shady places, but may be found in smaller numbers from sun- 
rise to sunset. They may sometimes be met with in bright moonlight. In cloudy 
weather few are found, even a single cloud at once diminishing the numbers, they 
are not seen during rain and wind also at once drives them to take shelter. They 
prefer both a black skin and dark clothes to those of a light colour, so they usually at- 
tack natives in preference to Europeans if both are present. Their bites are like sharp 
pricks and cause a moderate degree of after-irritation. They only exceptionally bite 
through clothes. They do not buzz, but strike directly at ihe part exposed ; generally 
the back of the neck. Austen, and all other writers, are agreed that Glossina can 
only live on vertebrate blood, and cannot be supported on vegetable juices. In 
captivity they require to be fed every two days to keep them well, but Stuhlmann 
found that after a full feed they might stiU retain their weight before sucking blood 
for six to eight days, so that they probably can exist even longer in nature on a 
single feed. Koch examined the blood in a large number of flies, and found it to be 
that of crocodiles in 62 per cent., and human in the remainder. He has there 
fore suggested that these reptiles should be destroyed in order to cut off the princi- 
pal food supply of the flies. Even if practicable this measure would not be likely to 
be of much use as Glossina palpalis flourishes where no crocodiles are found. Liz- 
ards, birds, etc., also furnish food for the flies. It is also generally agreed 
that G. palpalis is not dependent on big game, as G. morsitans so largely is. 

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.— The Glossina palpalis has a very wide dis- 
tribution throughout the large area of African continent comprised roughly in the 
zoological division known as the Western Equatorial region. To the north it has been 
found up to 15° in Senegambia, and to 8° in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan on the Nile. 
To the south it reaches to 12° on the Luapula river in N.E. Rhodesia, and about the 
same level in Portuguese West Africa. In 1864 three specimens were taken on the 
Zambesi river, although it is not found there at the present time, so that its dis- 
tribution may alter, and it may yet be discovered beyond the above mentioned lati- 
tudes. The countries in which it has been recorded comprise aU the West Coast 
settlements from French Senegambia and British Nigeria in the north, through the 
Gulf of Guinea and the Congo watershed to Portuguese Angola in the south, this 
tract having been the original home of sporadic sleeping sickness for over one hun- 
dred years. From here the disease was doubtless carried by caravans to the 



340 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

Upper Nile basin, where the Glossina palpalis is to be found on the shores of the 
Victoria, Albert Edward, and George lakes, and the tributaries of the Nile arising 
from them. It also has been found on Lake Rudolph to the north-west of Lake 
Victoria, and also on Tanganyika and Mweru in the extreme north-east of Rhodesia, 
but not on Nyassa and Bangweolo a little further south. It has been reported to 
be absent from Lake Chad and from Kivu, immediately to the north of Tanganyika. 
The east coast is free from the fly for a width of 400 miles, the high escarpment to the 
east of the great central lake system forming the dividing line. This is a most 
important fact, as in the absence of G. palpalis sleeping sickness is extremely un- 
likely to become indigenous in the East African coast area. This forms a great 
safeguard against the affection being carried to India and other countries, while, as 
the Glossina is limited to Africa, there is little or no danger of the spread of 
sleeping sickness in tropical Asia, just as it has failed to become indigenous in the 
West Indies, although imported cases have frequently been seen there. 

DEVELOPMENT OF TRYPANOSOMA GAMBIENSE IN TSETSE FLIES.— Dur- 
ing the last two years a large amount of experimental work has been done on 
this point, much care being taken to avoid the fallacies of early experiments due to 
flies which, when captured, were already infected with one or more of the numerous try- 
panosomes met with in various forms of animal life in Africa. Stuhlmann in German 
East Africa fed testse-flies (fusca) bred from pupae on the blood of animals 
infected with T. brucei, and in 80 to 90 per cent, after two to four days he 
found numerous actively dividing trypanosomes in the posterior intestine. If 
fed on healthy animals home bred flies never showed trypanosomes, but 3 to 14 per 
cent, of those caught in nature were found to have tr37panosomes in the proboscis, 
and a larger percentage in their intestines. In only 10 per cent, of Stuhlmann's 
bred flies was infection found in the anterior intestine and proventriculus, but 
they soon degenerate both in the latter and in the proboscis. He therefore con- 
sidered that development occurred in the posterior intestine and might occasionally 
extend forward and produce infection. Roubaud also found large numbers of the 
parasites in the intestines of specially fed tsetse-flies, and in addition described 
groups of parasites attached by the extremities of the flagella to the internal sur- 
face of the labium, but he only met with this twice in nature in several hundred 
specimens of Glossina palpalis. He suggested this to be the only possible source 
of infection of vertebrates after forty-eight hours, when free trypanosomes are no 
longer found in the proboscis. His observation has been confirmed but this 
development is too infrequently found to be probably the ordinary mode of in- 
fection. 

During 1909 a valuable series of papers have been published by Professor 
Kleine giving the results of very extensive experiments with home bred flies in an area 
free from T. gambiense infection. On emergence from the pupa they were fed for 
four days on infected monkeys and afterwards on healthy ones until the latter showed 
trypanosomes. Then small groups of the infected series of flies were fed a few times 
on different healthy monkeys, the flies being flnally killed and examined for 



SLEEPING SICKNESS 341 

trypanosomes. He found that only those monkeys developed the disease which had 
been fed on by one or more flies containing trypanosomes. When the group of 
flies was found to be free from infection the animals on which they had been fed 
remained quite healthy. He estimated that 10 per cent, of bred flies fed on dis- 
eased animals became infected ^vith trypanosomes. The intestine always contained 
them, the proventriculus generally, while they were occasionally also seen in the 
proboscis and salivary glands. Fifty control flies fed on healthy animals remained 
free from trypanosomes. The important point in these experiments is that the 
infection occurred from 20 to 66 days or more after the flies had been fed on the 
diseased animals, so that the trypanosomes found in them were clearly develop- 
mental forms. In a later paper Kleine failed to obtain any development of T. 
gambiense in Glossina morsitans, so that it appears probable that the human try- 
panosome only multiplies in Glossina palpalis : a most important point if confirmed — 
as the danger of the spread of sleeping sickness to the large areas of Africa in which 
other forms of tsetse-flies only are found will be slight. Kleine's experiments also 
go far towards proving that the trypanosomes are not conveyed through generations 
of tsetse-flies by heredity, which also limits their danger. Moreover, he obtained 
no mechanical transmission of infection by the bites of 1 910 tsetse-flies fed on healthy 
animals eighteen to twenty-four hours after sucking infected blood, so th^ direct 
conveyance of infection is of very brief duration. He also found that female flies 
fed solely on crocodile blood did not produce pupse, although they readily did so 
when fed on mammalian blood, so that it may even be a disadvantage to destroy these 
reptiles, as far as Umiting tsetse-flies is concerned. 

Sir David Bruce and his colleagues have confirmed Kleine's observation that 
tsetse-flies may carry trypanosomes eighteen to seventy-five days and upwards 
after being fed on infected animals, but they consider it to be a very exceptional 
event. Out of sixty flies used in one experiment only a single one developed 
trypanosomes in the intestine, and after the death of this fly no more infection took 
place from the flies still remaining. They consider the mechanical method of 
infection to be the common one, and the late one, after the occasional development in 
the intestine of the fly, a very rare event. 

CULTIVATION OF TRYPANOSOMES ON ARTIFICIAL MEDIA.— In 1903 Novy 
and MacNeal cultivated the Trypanosoma Lewisi on nutrient agar with a little 
peptone, to which a varying proportion of defibrinated rabbit's blood was added. 
The organisms grew in the water of condensation at either room temperature or at 
37° F. In the same year they cultivated Trypanosoma brucei at 25° F. at least as 
much blood as agar being used. MacNeal later recommended the following as the 
best culture medium. 



Extractives of 125 g. chopped beef in distilled water 
Agar ........ 

Peptone ........ 

Conunon salt ....... 

Normal solution sodium carbonate 



1,000 CO. 
20 g. 
20 g. 

6 g. 
10 CO. 



342 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



The organisms at first decrease, but in successful attempts they multiply again 
about the twentieth to thirtieth day, and can then be transplanted, a constant 
temperature of 25° C. being best. In this way in birds they could find trypanosomes 
frequently when they had failed to do so microscopically. Thomas and Breinl kept 
T. gambiense alive on blood agar for 68 days, but it lost its infectivity after 17 days. 
Gray and Tulloch were less successful, and the method has not yet become an aid in 
diagnosis of sleeping sickness on account of its uncertainty. 

PROPHYLAXIS 

The great recent extension of our knowledge of the etiology of sleeping sickness 
has opened up the way to the adoption of practical preventative measures, both 
as regards the ravages of the disease in already infected areas and its extension 
to those still free, but which are known to be potentially dangerous on account of 
their being infested with Glossina palpahs. As in the case of other insect-borne 
diseases, notably malaria, there are several links in the chain of infection open to 
attack, which may be conveniently considered under the following headings. 

DESTRUCTION OF THE GLOSSINA PALPALIS.— As it now appears certain 
that tlMs fly alone is intimately associated with the spread of human trypanoso- 
miasis, any measures which will eradicate it from an infected area should lead to 
the disappearance of the disease as soon as the already infected persons have died 
or recovered. Unfortunately, in the present stage of civilization in Tropical Africa, 
such a measure is as impossible as the analogous problem of ridding extensive 
rural areas of anopheles at any practically feasible cost. Fortimately, however, 
the glossina but rarely travels more than a few score of yards from open water, 
while it requires the shade of trees and bushes, or at least long grass, to afford the 
shelter which is essential to it. Advantage has been widely taken of this fact of 
its Ufe history in Uganda and elsewhere, to clear the fly-infested scrub for a width 
of thirty or forty yards from the river or lake bank. As it is essential that the bush 
should not be allowed to spring up again, it must be removed or burnt and the roots 
dug out, some crop should now be planted to occupy the cleared ground, the best 
being Citronella grass, the smell of which is said by some to be dishked by the flies 
while it has a commercial value. The lower branches of large trees should be 
stripped, but they should not aU be destroyed, especially at ferries and fords, be- 
cause unless some shade is left in the cleared area the natives will not remain in the 
sun, but seek the neighbouring fly infested bush beyond the clearing. The places 
which should be thus cleared are landing places on lakes and rivers, fords, camps, 
markets and villages close to the water's edge. The strip should extend for from 
one to three hundred yards along the water's edge on each side. It is also well to 
clear the scrub for several hundred yards along tracks leading from water to villages, 
leaving only large trees for shade. 

In some places pools can be drained or filled, but this plays a comparatively 
small part in the prophylaxis of sleeping sickness. The destruction of animals, 
such as crocodiles, on which the flies feed has been advised, but is of very limited 



SLEEPING SICKNESS 343 

practicability and value. Minchin has recommended the keeping of fowls to destroy 
the pupae, while the destruction of flies or their pupae by native labour has been 
tried, but with no appreciable good effect. 

THE DESTRUCTION OF THE PARASITE IN THE HUMAN BLOOD.— As no 
domestic animals appear to be naturally liable to sleeping sickness to any extent, 
although Koch once found a naturally infected monkey, the disease could theoretic- 
ally be stamped out by destroying the trjrpanosome in the blood of all infected per- 
sons, just as the similar measure which is so extremely important in the prevention of 
malaria. As already shown under the head of treatment, we now have a number 
of drugs which will cause the organism to rapidly disappear from the peripheral 
circulation, but so far this happy result has rarely proved to be permanent. More- 
over, the early stages of infection are very difficult or impossible to recognize, with- 
out elaborate expert microscopical examinations, which are only practicable in very 
few centres. For these reasons it is hopeless to expect to eradicate the disease 
in this way within areas infested with the Glossina palpalis, while the difficulty 
is greatly enhanced by the fact that no immunity is produced in animals after 
recovery, so reinfection is liable to occur. The only conditions under which any such 
drug treatment is likely to be of value as a prophylactic measure is when infected 
persons have to be transported through a fly area, as the temporary removal 
of the trypanosomes from their blood will lessen the chance of the flies becoming 
infected by sucking their blood, and subsequently carrying the disease to others. 

REMOVAL OF THE POPULATION FROM FLY AREAS.— As neither the des- 
truction of the carrier nor of the parasite is practicable on a large scale, some other 
measure must be adopted. In the case of the closely analogous epidemic of kala-azar 
in Assam, at a time when neither the parasite nor the infecting agent of the disease 
was known, I was fortunate enough to discover that the infection was very local, 
and I was able to stamp out the disease from tea gardens by moving the healthy 
people out of the infected settlements, the diseased being isolated, and their old 
habitations destroyed. Latterly, since I came to the conclusion that the bed-bug 
was the carrier, the destruction of these insects in infected houses has also proved of 
great value. In the case of sleeping sickness advantage has similarly been taken 
of the very restricted areas in which the Glossina palpalis is found to remove the 
people from such places. Under the direction of Dr. A. Hodges, who has had 
several years' experience of the disease in Uganda, at the end of 1907 all the natives, 
whether infected or not, were cleared out of a two mile strip all round the intensely 
infected north-western shore of the Victoria lake, with the loyal assistance of tl^e 
chiefs, and only allowed to settle inland in fly-free areas. The infected fish-eating 
islanders could not be dealt with in this way, but they were only allowed to land at 
certain places on the mainland, which had been widely cleared of trees and bush 
so as to keep them free from tsetse-flies. Camps for the treatment of the infected 
were started under medical officers, but no compulsion was used to get the people 
to enter them. The fame of the atoxyl treatment led many at first to come for 



344 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



treatment, but the numbers fell off when the results did not come up to the original 
expectations. In the fly-free areas now occupied there is no necessity to segregate 
the sick, as was essential in Assam in the case of kala-azar on account of the 
universal distribution of the bed-bug. The above radical measures seem likely 
to go far towards staying the appalling death rate in the part of Uganda dealt with, 
and it is being now extended to a badly infected area in Southern Kavirondo on the 
north-east shore of Lake Victoria, which was first found to be infected in 1902. 
As a result of these measures the deaths from sleeping sickness have fallen from 
8,003 in 1905 to 1,723 in 1908. The decrease has been most marked on the main- 
land, and less on the islands. 

In North-Eastern Rhodesia sleeping sickness has been found at the south end 
of Lake Tanganyika, Lake Mweru and the northern portion of the Luapula river. 
Clearings made in 1907 did not prove successful, so arrangements were made to 
move 12,000 people from 350 miles of infected border to places fifteen miles inland, 
which it is hoped will prevent the further spread of the disease, although the matter 
is here much complicated by the absence of effective measures in the neighbouring 
territories under Belgian rule. It is to be hoped that the recent international con- 
ferences on sleeping sickness wiU lead to properly concerted action here, such as has 
already been arranged with regard to British and German East Africa, as with 
the rapid opening up of communications in Central Africa the effective control of this 
appalling disease has become a matter of the gravest importance. 



THE PREVENTION OF THE SPREAD OF SLEEPING SICKNESS TO NEW 
AREAS. — All the enormous area of tropical Africa, which has now been found to 
harbour the Glossina palpalis, is potentially liable to destructive outbreaks of sleep- 
ing sickness. The fact that the western portion of the continent has suffered from 
sporadic cases for a century or more would lead one to expect that devastating 
epidemics like that in Uganda, are not now likely to break out there, in much the 
same way that sporadic kala-azar persists in a much milder and less widely pre- 
valent type in areas which have previously suffered terribly from the epidemic 
form of the disease. On the other hand, the lack of immunity produced by sleeping 
sickness in animals, which have recovered under treatment, combined with the 
knowledge now obtained with regard to the evolution of specially resistant strains 
of the Trypanosoma Gambiense, appear to make it unsafe to rely on the inhabitants 
of Western Africa not being hable to epidemic manifestations of the disease. Apart, 
however, from such speculations, there are stiU large fly infested regions to which 
the epidemic is almost certain to spread sooner or later with increased opening up 
of communications. When the Cape to Cairo railway reaches the Glossina palpaUs 
tracts there will be great danger of the fly itself extending to the south, as it has 
already been known to be carried long distances in railway carriages. For the 
credit of European civilization it is imperative that no steps should be omitted to 
prevent the advent of white traders leading to the wholesale depopulation of the 
native inhabitants, apart altogether from the utilitarian fact that these vast tropical 
lands can only be successfully developed with the aid of native labour. It will be 



I 



SLEEPING SICKNESS 345 

only through international action that such a disaster can be averted, as wiU 
appear from a consideration of the following suggestions which have been put 
forward for attaining this end. 

The problem is to prevent persons infected with sleeping sickness from entering 
uninfected fly areas, and the whole difficulty arises from absence of any definite 
symptoms, except in some cases enlargement of the cervical glands, in the early 
stage of blood infection by the Trypanosoma Gambiense, until it produces the 
symptoms of sleeping sickness by spreading to the cerebro-spinal membranes. The first 
measure of practical importance is to ascertain exactly what areas are infected by 
the disease, to segregate the sick from the healthy in places free from flies so as to 
reduce the chances of infection, and to prevent all recruiting in them of soldiers, 
carriers, or labourers for non-infected districts. The routes leading from infected 
to uninfected parts should be controlled by inspecting stations under specially 
trained medical men. Reliance will have to be mainly placed on gland palpation, 
with puncture of all markedly enlarged ones and examination for the trypanosomes, 
as recommended by Greig and Gray and advocated subsequently by Todd. Although 
some very early cases may thus escape, the great majority should be capable of 
detection and by ascertaining from whence they have come new centres of infec- 
tion may be located. The blood of any natives suffering from fever should be 
examined microscopically in thick films as advised by Koch and by centrifugalization 
to assist in detecting the trypanosome. Unfortunately it is easier to suggest such 
measures than to carry them out in the heart of a huge continent clothed in tropical 
forest, with but a small administrative staff supplied with very limited revenue. 
On the other hand, the African native appears to be generally docile, although very 
lazy even with regard to the adoption of measures to save his own life. The 
degree of success which has already attended the extensive prophylactic measures 
in Uganda described above affords the best grounds for hope that this great problem 
will be solved to a large extent in the near future. 

TREATMENT. — Arsenical preparations were first used in diseases produced 
by trypanosomes by Lingard in the case of Indian surra and by Bruce in tsetse- 
fly disease of cattle in South Africa. During the last few years an immense amount 
of experimental work has been done to test the efficacy of various preparations, 
with very promising results. These have, however, been borne out to some extent 
only in the actual treatment of human trypanosomiasis. In considering the data 
thus accumulated it must be carefully remembered that results experimentally 
obtained with regard to one variety of animal trypanosome cannot be indiscrimi- 
nately applied to that of the human disease. Moreover different strains of the 
same species often furnish very different results in the hands of various workers. 
This is easily understood when we bear in mind the remarkable discovery made 
by Franke and Roehl, working in Ehrlich's laboratory, of the development under 
prolonged treatment with arsenical drugs of strains of trypanosomes which resisted 
these powerful agents. Moreover, such resistant strains retained this power when 
inoculated through a series of susceptible animals surviving treatment which had 



346 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

quickly removed those of the original strain from the peripheral circulation. These 
important observations raise the serious question as to whether prolonged arsenical 
treatment in the human subject may not produce in men a highly resistant strain, 
which can also be transmitted by the natural carriers of the infection, and thus 
start a still more dangerous form of the disease than that which is now devastating 
Equatorial Tropical Africa. Fortunately we now have several classes of trypano- 
some destroying drugs, and strains resistant to one may yield to another. Bearing 
these facts in mind we may consider those drugs which have now been proved to 
have a powerful effect on the Trjrpanosoma Gambiense of the human disease. 

ATOXYL. — This substance was shown by Ehrlich to be the monosodium salt of 
aminophenylarsenic acid. It is very stable and easily soluble in water, but does 
not keep well in solution, so that it must be freshly dissolved. It can be sterilized 
by boiling in a test tube for not more than one or two minutes just before use. 
It is forty times less toxic than arsenious acid, but has little action on trypanosomes 
in vitro, although when kept at 38° C. for two hours with a sahne emulsion of rabbit's 
liver it became extremely poisonous to these organisms, trypanotoxyl being formed. 
In large doses it may give rise to serious toxic symptoms. Fever may result, 
probably owing to toxins being freed by the destruction of numerous trypanosomes 
in the blood. Faintness, sickness and diarrhoea, nephritis and retention of urine, 
abdominal cramps and paresis of the lower limbs have been recorded. More import- 
ant stni are dimness of vision, sometimes followed by optic atrophy producing 
permanent blindness, as in some of Koch's cases treated for a time with 1 gramme 
doses of the drug. This misfortune was most .commonly seen by Gray after the 
use of a yellow atoxyl, which was probably impure. Symptoms of poisoning are 
more readily produced by oral than by subcutaneous administration, so the latter 
should be employed in preference. Koch, after a long experience, advised "5 grammes 
every tenth and eleventh day, and in the Uganda camps "4 grammes at the same 
intervals in a 20 per cent, solution is used. The Liverpool workers advise its in- 
travenous administration, while intraspinal injection has also been advocated, 
10 ccm. of a "1 per cent, solution being the dose. In animals infected wdth the 
Trypanosoma Gambiense this drug causes the parasites to disappear from the blood 
within a few hours, leucocytosis also appearing, but it is disputed if phagocytosis 
of the organisms takes place. There is a marked tendency for the trypanosomes to 
reappear after long intervals, but some few animals appear to have been completely 
cured by atoxyl, but no immunity results. The best results are obtained in early 
cases, Manson having treated six Europeans with trypanosome fever, but without any 
signs of the onset of sleeping sickness, with prolonged small doses of atoxyl, and five 
were in apparently good health from one and a quarter to three years later, while 
the sixth died of influenzal pneumonia, so that at any rate the onset of sleeping sickness 
appears to have been postponed. Manson also notes a special hability of women to 
the disease, probably due to the slight protection from the flies which their clothing 
affords. Koch has also reported good results in the Sesse Islands, and believed 
that the greater number of early cases could be cured by four to six months' atoxyl 



SLEEPING SICKNESS 347 

treatment. Unfortunately the patients remained in the infected area, so are liable 
to reinfection, and it will be very difficult to decide if the cures are permanent. 
In the Uganda camps 34 per cent, of the early cases were dead after one year, while 
life only appeared to be prolonged in the majority of the cases. On the whole the 
results have fallen very far short of the expectations raised by the effect of the 
drug in animal experiments with the Trypanosoma gambiense, and A. G. Bagshawe, 
after a careful review of the literature, concludes that it is doubtful if any actual 
cures by atoxyl have occurred. 

ATOXYL AN D MERC URY. — As the Liverpool workers found that a few trypano- 
somes commonly survived the atoxyl treatment and reproduced the disease, they 
sought for some combination of drugs having a more permanent effect. Mercury 
in the form of liq. Hydrarg. Perchlor. B.P., given after the trypanosomes had 
been banished from the peripheral circulation by atoxyl, gave them much more 
permanent results in animals than the use of atoxyl alone. Similar good effects 
were obtained with Donovan's solution. In Uganda the combination of atoxyl and 
mercury has been used with slightly better results than with the former drug alone, 
yet without anything like as striking effects as in the experimental animals. 

OTHER DRUGS. — Soamin (which appears to differ from atoxyl only in the 
amount of water it contains, but is much less poisonous), has lately been used in 
Uganda with at least as good results as the latter and without its dangers. It is 
prepared in the Wellcome laboratory, and 10 grains may be given every alternate 
day up to a total of 100 grains without any toxic sjnnptoms. In animals infected 
with Nagana, Loeffler and Roehl obtained good results with a specially prepared 
solution of arsenious acid injected intraperitoneally, but later they found it necessary 
to combine this with atoxyl in order to cure their animals. Greig and Gray gave 
arsenious acid intramuscularly in doses rising from 10 to 20 milligrammes adminis- 
tered nearly every day with some good results. Laveran and Thiroux in animals 
have got good effects by the combined use of atoxyl and orpiment (arsenic trisul- 
phide), the latter being given in pills by the mouth, but they did not test it against 
the T. gambiense. Antimony has also been used in the form of tartar emetic and 
sodium sodio-tartrate of antimony by Plimmer in sleeping sickness. Subcutaneously 
they are too irritant and painful, but given intravenously they cause a rapid dis- 
appearance of the trypanosomes from the blood, although relapses commonly occur. 
A number of aniline dyes have also been experimented with, but have not proved 
of. much service in practice. Arsenophenylglycin has recently been recommended, 
but has the disadvantage that it must be kept in vacuo. 

The one fact which stands out clearly from the mass of accumulated evidence 
on the treatment of various trypanosome diseases is that there is no one specific 
drug which can be relied on to permanently destroy the parasite within the animal 
tissues. They disappear from the blood, often for long periods, but a few resistant 
forms survive and produce .a relapse sooner or later, and now the drug previously 
administered loses its former power of clearing the circulation of the organisms, 



348 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



although this may be effected by some different class of chemical. It is for this reason 
that Ehrlich and others advise combined therapy, which has been rendered possible 
by the discovery of a number of active agents. In fact Bagshawe states that in 
his opinion the employment of atoxyl or any other trypanocide by itself ceases to 
be justifiable, the danger of producing resistant human strains being a very practical 
one. When the parasites have disappeared from the blood after the use of any one 
chemical, such as atoxyl, it should be followed by another drug, such as mercury, 
arsenious acid, orpiment or antimony salts in order to destroy any organisms which 
may have survived the action of the atoxyl, the further changes being made from time 
to time. It must also be remembered that the parasites must be proved to remain 
absent from both the blood and lymph glands for a very long time, probably two 
or three years, before a permanent cure can confidently be asserted. They are 
more likely to recur in the blood stream than in the lymph glands according to 
several observers. Although the cure of this dread disease now proves not to be so 
easy as had been hoped a short time ago, nevertheless we now possess a number 
of powerful drugs for its treatment, as a result of much patient experimental work, 
while perseverance is likely to lead in the near future to still further progress towards 
the desired goal. 



FURTHER EXPERIENCE OF THE IPECACUANHA TREATMENT 
OF AMOEBIC HEPATITIS IN PREVENTING TROPICAL LIVER 
ABSCESS. 

The views put forward in Section VI have been completely confirmed by much 
further experience in India. A number of instances of the success of large doses 
of ipecacuanha in rapidly curing very acute hepatitis Avith suspected abscess form- 
ation have been reported to me, in many of which the results were described as 
marvellous. At the European hospital in Calcutta this treatment has been adopted, 
with very satisfactory results, in twenty-five cases during 1907-08. It may now 
be said that in the general wards of this hospital no case has occurred during the 
last four years of acute hepatitis going on to the formation of liver abscess after 
admission, although previously this was a frequent occurrence. Still more striking 
is the number of patients sent from distant places, for operation for liver abscess, 
who completely recovered under treatment with ipecacuanha, having come under 
observation just in time to prevent suppuration taking place. Again, negative 
results from explorations for liver abscess, which were so common in the series 
tabulated on page 175, have been conspicuous by their absence during the last 
two years, as surgical measures are not now imdertaken until after a careful trial 
of ipecacuanha in full doses, unless there are obvious signs of abscess formation 
on admission. As this treatment is becoming more widely known the admission 
of Europeans for liver abscess is becoming less frequent. It is now not too much 
to say that this dreadful disease is entirely preventable, in the vast majority of cases, 
in those who come under skilled treatment in the early stages of acute amoebic 
hepatitis, and the formation of a tropical liver abscess should soon become a very 
exceptional occurrence, which ought to cause serious questionings in the mind of 
the medical man in whose hands it has been allowed to develop. 

In natives of India the disease is comparatively rarely seen in hospitals in 
the pre-suppurative stage, owing to their having been treated by unqualified men for 
" fever " for weeks before seeking admission to hospital with a large liver abscess. 
Nevertheless, a number of cases in the pre-suppurative stage have been successfully 
treated with ipecacuanha by the physicians of the Medical College Hospital, espe- 
cially by Surgeon-General C. P. Lukis and Colonel G. F. A. Harris, I.M.S., including 
several with very acute symptoms and greatly enlarged tender livers, in whom 
suppuration was strongly suspected. In at least two such cases I have seen actual 
oedema over the right lower ribs, which is usually regarded as a sign of suppuration, 
so the question arises whether under this treatment a small abscess may frequently 
subside and encyst, as is known to occasionally occur in natm-e. I therefore think 
that aU cases in which the least doubt remains as to whether actual suppuration has 
taken place, should be given the chance afforded by a course of ipecacuanha before 
any operation is undertaken. Further it is by no means rare for a patient, who 

349 



350 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

has been successfully operated on for liver abscess, to return within one or more 
years with another abscess. I have shown that amoebic ulcers are certainly present 
in the large bowel at some period in over 90 per cent, of tropical abscesses of the 
liver, and probably in all of them, although frequently in a latent condition and 
producing no definite dysenteric symptoms. I am therefore strongly of the 
opinion that every case of Hver abscess should be given a course of ipecacuanha 
before leaving hospital, in order to cure these ulcers, and so prevent a recurrence of 
the very serious liver complication. If operative measures are urgently necessary, 
the drug can be postponed until after the patient has recovered from the 
immediate effect of the surgical procedures, and is in a position to stand the rather 
depressing influence of the large doses which are necessary. The following cases 
will serve to illustrate the more important of the above points. 

VERY ACUTE HEPATITIS WITH SUSPECTED LIVER ABSCESS FOLLOWING 
IMMEDIATELY ON DYSENTERY. — European male, aged 25, admitted for dysentery 
of six weeks' duration. About six stools of blood and mucus daily, without pain 
or straining, which subsided in ten days under treatment with castor oil mixture 
and creolin enemas. Seven days later he began to suffer from pain in the hepatic 
region and right shoulder, while his temperature, which had been normal for twelve 
days, changed to a remittent type of fever ranging between 99° and 103° F. The pains 
continued to be severe, the breath sounds at the right base became diminished and 
profuse sweats occurred, and on the eighth day of the hepatitis the right side of 
the diaphragm was found by X rays to be quite motionless, and there appeared to 
be a shght shadow in the right lobe of the liver. Abscess within this organ was, 
therefore, confidently diagnosed by the very experienced medical man in charge, but 
as the patient had recently suffered from dysentery he agreed to give a few full 
doses of 30 grains of ipecacuanha before operating. On the following day the 
pain and sweating were less, and a day later the pain over the liver had entirely 
ceased, although it continued a httle longer in the shoulder. The temperature 
steadily fell during the next three days, after this it remained normal and all 
the signs of liver abscess completely disappeared. No possible doubt remained in 
the minds of those who watched this patient that the ipecacuanha had averted acute 
suppuration in the liver. 

CHRONIC HEPATITIS YIELDING ONLY TO FULL DOSES OF IPECACU- 
ANHA. — European male, aged 29, admitted for hepatitis. Had dysentery two and a 
half months before in Singapore. He was first treated with ammonium chloride and 
quinine without good effect. Then 5 grain doses of ipecacuanha stopped the fever in 
two days, but it recurred after a week. Salines, aspirin, salol and bismuth were tried 
in turn without any good results. Six weeks after admission he was put on 30 grain 
doses of ipecacuanha every evening, which immediately reduced the temperature to 
a low intermittent type, and it finally ceased, together with all other symptoms, 
after fourteen days, and remained normal during the further month he remained 
under observation in hospital. This case shows the necessity of using full doses 
of the drug for a considerable period in chronic persistent amoebic hepatitis. 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 351 

MILD HEPATITIS YIELDING TO OTHER DRUGS WHICH RELAPSED VERY 
SEVERELY THREE MONTHS LATER.— European male, aged 26, admitted in the 
month of August for hepatitis following dysentery. Under treatment with podophyl- 
lin and euonymin the symptoms and fever slowly abated in fifteen days, and he left 
hospital soon after. He returned just three months after his first admission and gave a 
history of having had fever every evening, beginning a month after leaving hospital, 
with rigors and sharp pain in the hepatic region at times. The liver extended 
from the fifth space to four inches below the costal margin, and there was shght 
bulging and tenderness over the organ. The breath sounds were diminished at 
the left base, and X rays showed the right arch of the diaphragm to be two inches 
higher than the left, hardly moving at all, even on deep respiration, but there was 
no denser shadow in the liver. The temperature was ranging between normal 
and 103°. Liver abscess was suspected, but a trial was given of ipecacuanha in 30 
to 40 grain doses every evening. The day after admission I found the leucocytes to 
number 15,000 per ccm., with only 76*8 per cent of polynuclears. He slept well 
the night after the first dose of ipecacuanha, and the following morning the pain 
was less, and he could turn over on to his right side for the first time. Two days 
later the tenderness over his liver had disappeared, although the temperature still 
rose to 103° in the evenings. On the fifth day after the commencement of the treat- 
ment the temperature became normal and so remained, all acute symptoms 
having subsided. The liver slowly decreased in size, reaching two and half 
inches below the ribs on the twelfth day, and one and a quarter on the seventeenth 
day, and was only just palpable on the thirty-third day, when he was quite well. I 
am indebted to Captain J. G. Murray for the notes of this case and for the oppor- 
tunity of watching his progress. It very well illustrates the usual sequel of 
events in acute cases treated by ipecacuanha. First the pain diminishes, then 
the temperature rapidly or gradually subsides, and lastly the liver decreases in 
size and the right side of the diaphragm regains its lost mobility. 

CHRONIC FEVER OF DOUBTFUL NATURE YIELDING TO IPECACUANHA 
BUT RELAPSING ON EARLY CESSATION OF THE DRUG.— European male, aged 
29, admitted for fever with history of dysentery of a week's duration one month 
before coming to hospital. No rigors. Fever of intermittent tjrpe. Slight pain 
and tenderness in the right hypochondrium, where the edge of the liver could be 
felt half inch below the ribs. Other organs normal and the bowels regular. He 
was treated with quinine by the mouth, iron and arsenic, and quinine hypoder- 
mically in turn for a period of six weeks, at the end of which time the temperature 
was rising higher, reaching 102° in the evening, and slight pain had appeared in 
the left shoulder, but the diaphragm moved well on both sides. He was now put on 
60 grains of ipecacuanha for two days, and 30 grains for five more. The temper- 
ature immediately began to steadily decline, and remained normal on the fourth 
day, and he felt better. Six days later the temperature began to rise daily to between 
99° and 100° F., and at the end of two weeks more it rose once more to 102°, when he 
was again put on 30 grain doses of ipecacuanha daily, and the fever finally left him 
two days later. 

23 



352 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THREE CASES SENT TO HOSPITAL FOR OPERATION FOR LIVER 
ABSCESS, BUT CURED WITH IPECACUANHA.— Three Cases were of special 
interest, as the patients were all sent many hundreds of miles to the Calcutta 
European hospital for operation for liver abscess, which had been diagnosed, not 
without good reason, by their doctors, on account of the very acute hepatitis present. 
The third had begun a course of ipecacuanha a few days before his arrival, and 
was already slightly better as regards the acuteness of the pain. Nevertheless, 
he had a marked leucocytosis with high and fixed right diaphragm and increased opa- 
city of the liver shadow. Abscess was therefore suspected, but fortunately aU the 
symptoms, leucocytosis and loss of movement of the diaphragm all rapidly subsided 
under fuU doses of ipecacuanha, and I heard of his being still weU over a year later. 
The first patient was sent down from Allahabad for very urgent operation for liver ab- 
scess and, the hospital staff sat up to 12.30 a.m. in readiness for surgical procedures on 
his arrival. A brief examination led to the conclusion, suggested by previoiis 
experience, that the acute symptoms might still possibly subside under medical treat- 
ment, although there were very strong reasons for thinking an abscess of the liver 
might be present. He was given the benefit of the doubt, and all the alarming 
symptoms subsided in a few days under ipecacuanha. In Case 11 the symptoms were 
less urgent, but the medical treatment was equally happy in averting the necessity 
of a serious operation. The second case was noteworthy for the presence of dis- 
tinct bulging of the lower ribs over the enlarged and tender liver causing abscess 
to be strongly suspected, but the temperature rapidly fell under the usual 
ipecacuanha treatment, and the liver steadily subsided. 

ACUTE HEPATITIS WITH DENSE SHADOW IN THE LIVER SLOWLY SUB- 
SIDING UNDER IPECACUANHA.— European male, aged 33, admitted for hepa- 
titis following an attack of dysentery ten days before. The liver extended from the 
level of the right nipple to just below the edge of the ribs, and he had pain over it. 
X-rays showed the right diaphragm to be high and quite fixed, while there appeared 
to be a dense shadow in the upper part of the right lobe. Poultices were appHed 
to the side and ipecacuanha was given in 20 to 30 grain doses daily. Three 
days later the temperature was lower, but the diaphragm equally fixed, although no 
shadow was made out. Low fever rising to 100° F. in the evening persisted, but seven 
days after the last note the diaphragm was found to move one inch on the right 
side, and no shadow appeared. On the fifteenth day the temperature fell and 
remained normal, and a fortnight later the diaphragm had regained about its full 
movement. The slow subsidence of the fever, together with the presence of a 
shadow in the liver, suggested the possibility of a localised abscess having been pres- 
ent, which encysted under the treatment adopted. Even a shadow in the liver is 
not, however, conclusive evidence of an abscess in the organ, as proved in an- 
other recent case at the same hospital, while the absence of one is not proof that 
no locaUsed suppuration has occurred, so that this case is only suggestive of encyst- 
ment of an abscess clinically observed having taken place. It at least illustrates the 
importance of giving a prolonged trial to the drug in cases of hepatitis which 
fail to yield as rapidly as the general run do. 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 353 

CHRONIC HEPATITIS RAPIDLY CURED BY IPECACUANHA AFTER FAIL- 
URE OF OTHER DRUGS. — European male, aged 29, admitted for chronic 
hepatitis of six months' dm^ation, but much worse for the last seventeen days, with 
shght fever, sweats and pain over the Hver and in the right shoulder. He was 
treated in hospital with sodium sulphate and ammonium chloride, arsenic and 
dilute hydochloric acid for thirty-one days, with very little result, his tempera- 
ture being higher at the end of this period than on his admission. He was now 
put on ipecacuanha in 30 grain doses every evening, and his fever finally ceased in 
five days. 

ACUTE HEPATITIS WITH INVOLVEMENT OF THE BASE OF THE RIGHT 
LUNG CLEARING UP UNDER IPECACUANHA.— European male, aged 43, 
admitted with a history of fever for one month, with severe pain over the liver 
during the last few days. The liver extends from the sixth rib to one inch below 
the costal margin. Temperature from 100° to 102° F. X-rays showed the diaphragm 
on the right side to be high and nearly fixed, while the base of the left lung was 
darker than normal and the outline of the diaphragm blurred. No shadow in the 
liver. There were also a few crepitations to be heard at the base of the right lung. 
An abscess was suspected at the upper part of the liver, with spreading of the 
inflammation to the base of the right lung, but he was put on ipecacuanha in the hope 
that suppuration might not actually have taken place. On the following day the 
pain over the liver was much less, but the temperature only very slowly declined 
to some extent during the first six days. At the end of this time X-rays showed 
the right side of the diaphragm to be moving almost as well as the left, while 
the opacity at the base of the left lung had almost gone, leaving the vault of the 
diaphragm clearly defined. On the eighth day the temperature remained quite 
normal, but the first and third days after this a high intermittent rise occurred, 
which proved to be benign tertian malaria, which yielded at once to quinine and 
he made a complete recovery. 

ACUTE HEPATITIS DEVELOPING SUPPURATION IN HOSPITAL WITH- 
OUT IPECACUANHA TREATMENT.— The patient, a European, was admitted 
for fever of three weeks' duration, of uncertain nature. A few days later signs of 
acute hepatitis developed and leucocytosis being also found an exploratory lapar- 
otomy was performed, on account of the left lobe of the liver being much enlarged 
and very tender. The liver was palpated and repeatedly aspirated with a negative 
result. Ammonium chloride and saline purges were accordingly continued, and 
the temperature was lower for a time. Four weeks after his admission the fever 
again became higher, and on the 38th day in hospital a second operation was per- 
formed, and an abscess opened in the very part of the left lobe of the liver which 
had been proved to be free from suppuration at the first operation twenty-nine 
days before. The case terminated fatally. He had never had any ipecacuanha, 
the routine treatment with ammonium chloride and large doses of quinine having 
been used in accordance with the general teaching of recent times. Yet this 
patient showed far less urgent signs of hepatitis when first admitted than the great 



354 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

majority of the cases which cleared up so readily under the ipecacuanha treatment. 
I venture to think that such misfortunes will become increasingly rare with the 
increasing use of the treatment here advocated. 

DURATION OF THE READILY CURABLE PRE-SUPPURATIVE STAGE OF AMOEBIC 

HEPATITIS 

The extent to which the occurrence of tropical abscesses of the liver can 
be reduced by the use of large doses of ipecacuanha must evidently depend on the 
duration of the pre-suppurative stage, in which alone it can be expected to be 
successful. I have analysed a number of cases of liver abscess to determine this 
point with the following results. Among twenty liver abscess cases in the 
European hospital in 50 per cent, fever or hepatitis had been present for over 
one month before the abscess was found, in 34 per cent, more these symptoms had 
been evident for between two weeks and a month, while in the remaining four 
cases the time was between from nine to thirteen days. Again, out of fifty-tbree 
native patients, in 51 per cent, a history of over two months' illness was obtained, 
in 38 per cent, one of from one to two months, in nine per cent, from two weeks to a 
month, and in only one case less than two weeks. Of course, many of the native 
patients had developed abscesses some time before they came to hospital, but 
allowing for this, there still remains a good margin of time, in the vast majority, 
during which the preventative ipecacuanha treatment might have been carried 
out, with great saving of life and prolonged suffering. 

METHODS OF ADMINISTERING IPECACUANHA 

To rapidly cut short an acute attack of amoebic hepatitis large doses of 
ipecacuanha are necessary, 30 grains being usually given every evening, preferably, 
about 9 p.m., no food or fluid should be taken for at least four hours previously, 
and none for a similar or even longer period after. By giving it at night, keeping the 
head low, and avoiding the least movement, the patient will often go to sleep 
and retain the whole of the drug without any trouble. The dose should be preceded 
by either 20 minims of tincture of opium or 20 grains of chloral hydrate, 
preferably the latter, unless much pain is present, given twenty minutes before the 
ipecacuanha. Further the drug may be administered in keratin capsules, which 
will not dissolve until they reach the intestine. Messrs. Burroughs and Well- 
come have made at my suggestion keratinized tabloids of the drug, which are 
also of value. Another simple, and usually effective, plan for avoiding sickness 
is to coat freshly prepared 5 grain ipecacuanha piUs with a layer of salol which is 
melted in a teaspoon and brushed on. If the dose is kept down for two or three 
hours but little will be lost by subsequent vomiting, which may be due to its action 
on the central nervous system after absorption. Patients vary very much in their 
susceptibility to the drug, but after a few doses a considerable degree of tolerance 
is established and the drug is usually well borne. If vomiting still persists the 
dose should be reduced to 15 or 20 grains, and gradually increased again if 
tolerated. Yet another useful method is to mix 10 grains of tannic acid with 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 365 

20 to 30 of ipecacuanha, and make it up in fresh boluses of 5 grains each for 
convenience, when given in this way vomiting rarely results. 

THE DURATION OF THE TREATMENT.— In my early cases the drug was dis- 
continued after a few days if the temperature had fallen to normal, but two cases 
so treated returned some months later with a fresh attack and in one of these a liver 
abscess had formed. During the last two years the treatment has been continued 
for from ten days to three weeks after the fever and other symptoms have subsided, 
the dose being reduced to 20 grains, and then to 10 grains and later given only every 
other evening. No relapses have come to my notice since this plan was adopted, so 
a full course of treatment should never be omitted. 

THE ACTION OF THE DRUG.— It has been shown by the American workers 
in the Philippine Islands that ipecacuanha has very little action on the amoeba of 
tropical liver abscess ; an observation which I have confirmed. Its marvellous 
action in amoebic hepatitis is, therefore, probably due to some alteration the active 
principle imdergoes during digestion and absorption from the bowel, the exact 
nature of which is not yet understood. The fact remains that it is a specific for 
the condition under consideration, the regular use of which in early recognized cases 
will certainly avert the extremely dangerous suppuration in the liver produced by 
the amoeba dysenterica, and thus rob the tropics of one of their greatest scourges. 

Lt.-Colonel Aldridge, R.A.M.C., has kindly supplied me with the figures of the 
incidence and death rate from liver abscess in the British Army for a nimiber 
of years past. From 1894 to 1906 the deaths averaged ninety-three yearly. About 
the middle of 1907 I published a series of cases illustrating the action of ipecacuanha 
in cutting short an acute amoebic hepatitis, and dealt with the same subject in the 
first edition of this work which appeared at the beginning of 1 908. In 1 907 the deaths 
from liver abscess in the British Army in India fell to seventy, the lowest figure in 
recent years. In 1908 only fifty-five deaths occurred from this disease, while 
during the first nine months of 1909 only twenty-eight such deaths were recorded, 
equivalent to thirty-seven in the year, or a reduction of no less than 60 per cent, 
in the last three years on the average rate of the previous thirteen years. Up to 
1906 there had been no reduction in the deaths, for in the three years 1904-06 they 
had averaged ninety-five. As in several of the annual medical reports of station 
hospitals in India for 1908 it was mentioned that the ipecacuanha treatment had 
been used with success in acute hepatitis, there can be little doubt that this str ikin g 
drop is due very largely to the adoption of my plan of treatment, although it may 
be in part a result of the improved method of treatment of liver abscess by aspir- 
ation and injection of quinine, instead of open drainage, which is described in this 
edition. As in the army, patients come under observation in an early stage of 
their illness there appears to be no reason while a still further reduction in the mor- 
tality should not be obtained, when the ipecacuanha treatment is imiversaUy used. 
Enough has already been accomplished to confirm my statement that amoebic 
liver abscess is an easily preventable disease in the great majority of cases which 
come early under efficient treatment, and to encourage other workers in the 
tropics to give their patients the benefit of it. 



AMOEBIC SUPPURATIVE HEPATITIS OR TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 

Suppuration occurs in the liver in several forms. Firstly, we have pyaemic 
affections due to septic organisms. These may either be part of a general pyaemic 
infection, with abscesses in the lungs, spleen, etc., as well as in the liver ; or a portal 
pyaemia (pylephlebitis), due to septic infection arising in some part of the gastro- 
intestinal tract and producing multiple acute abscesses throughout the Uver originat- 
ing in the distribution of the portal veins. This form of portal pyaemia may arise 
from sloughing dysentery in the tropics but is less common than might have been 
expected. I have not met with an example among about one thousand post-mort- 
ems in Calcutta during the last few years. At an earUer period several cases 
recorded as pyaemic abscesses of the Hver following dysentery were found post 
mortem, but as occasionally amoebic abscesses may be multiple, without any pyo- 
genic bacteria being present, it is impossible, in the absence of bacteriological exam- 
inations, to say how many of these were cases of septic portal pyaemia. Secondly, 
multiple abscesses of the hver occur in the bihary canals. Among twenty cases 
of this rare disease which I collected some years ago, eighteen were secondary to 
gall stones, the infection probably spreading up the common bile duct from the 
duodenum ; one was due to an hydatid cyst and the remaining one to a primary 
cancer of the bile duct. I have recorded one case of this nature occurring in Calcutta, 
which I diagnosed during life and removed a large mass of gall stones from the hepa- 
tic ducts, but the suppuration tracked along the inferior vena cava and opened into the 
lungs with fatal results. One other case of this nature is recorded in the thirty- 
five years record of Calcutta post-mortems, but it is a rare disease which it is difficult 
to recognize during life. 

These forms of multiple abscesses throughout the portal veins or bile ducts of 
the liver are usually of a very acute nature and are seldom recognizable during life 
apart from the primary diseases on which they are dependent. For this reason 
they differ clinically very widely from the so-called tropical hver abscess, following 
an attack of more or less acute hepatitis, and nearly always producing one or more 
large localised collections of pus, with or without smaller multiple abscesses quite 
unconnected with each other and generally quite free from the ordinary pyogenic 
bacteria, both in their early and late stages. This very distinct variety of liver 
abscess is now known to be constantly associated with the presence of an active 
protozoon an amoeba, and hence it is best described simply as amoebic suppurative 
hepatitis. As it occurs almost exclusively in tropical or sub-tropical chmates, 
or in persons who have resided in such places, it is also commonly spoken of as 
tropical liver abscess, in distinction from the portal and biliary multiple abscesses, 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



357 



which are nearly, if not quite, as common in the temperate zone. In this article 
only amoebic suppm'ation is dealt with. 

GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF AMOEBIC LIVER ABSCESS 

This disease is met with most frequently in low lying moist tropical climates. 
Thus, it is common in the large Presidency coast towns of India, at Colombo in 
Ceylon, Singapore, the East Indies, Philippine Islands, Hong Kong and the more 
southern parts of China. It also occurs inland in these countries, being met with 
in aU parts of India, including the comparatively dry Punjab and Central India. 
It is less common among British troops in the Peshawar division in the extreme 
north-west of India and in Burma than in any other area. In Africa it is not uncom- 
mon, in Egypt and Algiers as well as upon both coasts, while cases have also been 
reported from the interior. It is relatively rare in the West Indies, but occurs to 
some extent in the hotter parts of both North and South America. Owing to the 
chronic nature of the amoebic form of dysentery on which it is dependent, persons 
invalided from the tropics frequently develop the disease after returning to 
temperate countries, but these cases show a smaller proportion of the very acute 
multiple liver abscesses than in those actually arising in the tropics. 

PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 

AGE, SEX, AND RACE INCIDENCE.— The following table shows the age and 
sex of 300 hver abscess cases among natives of India and 92 Europeans treated 
in the Calcutta hospitals. 

TABLE XXXV. 







Natives. 


Europeans. 


Age. 


Hindus. 


Moham- 
medans. 


Males. ! Females. 


Total. 


Percent- 
age. 


Males. 


Females. 


Total. 


Percent- 
age. 


0-10 . . 
11-20 . . 
21-30 . . 
31-40 . . 
41-50 . . 
Over 50 
Total . 
Percentage 





15 
86 
94 
46 
11 
254 
84% 


2 

1 
19 
17 

7 

2 
48 
16% 


2 : ' 

162 ' i 16 

10 ; 3 105 

107 1 4 111 

58 1 1 53 

13 1 j 13 

292 ; 8 300 

97-3%; 2-7% — 

i i 


0-7 
5-3 
350 
37 
17-6 
4-3 




4 
24 
34 
19 

7 
88 
95-6% 





'■ 

1 




4 
25 
35 

20 

8 

92 

4-4% 




4-4 

27-2 

38-0 

21-7 

8-7 



These figures show that the age incidence is very similar in Europeans and 
Natives, especially when allowance is made for the fact that a much smaller pro- 
portion of native patients belong to the later decades of life. The well known very 
low incidence of liver abscess in the first decade is clearly brought out by the table, 
only 0"6 per cent, of the native patients, and none of the Europeans, having been 
under ten years of age. Further only 5*3 per cent, of the former and 4*4 per cent, 
of the latter were between 11 and 20, two-thirds of the natives being entered 



358 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

at 20, this being only their approximate age, for they are not very accurate in 
this respect. During the third and fourth decades over two-thirds of the cases 
occurred among natives and almost as many among the Europeans. In each race the 
fourth decade showed more cases than the third, so that the disease becomes increas- 
ingly frequent up to the age of forty, especially when we remember that many more 
native hospital patients are admitted in the third than in the fourth decade of life. 
Between 41 and 50, the disease is also quite common in proportion to the numbers 
of such patients, but over 50 they become less frequent. 

The SEX of incidence of liver abscess is of stiU greater interest and importance, 
for the great rarity of the disease in females is certainly the most striking fact in 
the distribution of the disease, and one regarding which I know of no adequate 
explanation. Thus, only 2-7 per cent, of the native patients and 4-4 per cent, 
of the Europeans were females, although one-fifth of the surgical admissions among 
natives are females. During the last nine years at the European Greneral Hospital 
the whole of the sixty- two admissions for liver abscess of which I have notes were 
in males. The European female patients at the Medical College Hospital with liver 
abscess were nearly all of mixed European and Indian blood. It is noteworthy 
that pre-suppurative amoebic hepatitis is equally rare among females of both races, 
only one out of about fifty cases in my European series having been of the female 
sex. The Medical College post-mortem records show an equally great rarity of 
tropical liver abscess among native females. 

The lesser consumption of alcohol by females is probably an important factor 
in their relative escape from liver abscess, but it will by no means fully explain 
the difference. It is more likely connected with a lesser incidence of amoebic 
dysentery in women, the reasons for which will only be known when we have more 
exact knowledge of the etiology of that disease. 

The RACE incidence of amoebic abscess of the liver has next to be considered. 
It is commonly stated in text books that the disease is rare in natives of India as 
compared with Europeans, figures in support of this contention being quoted from 
army and jail returns. Thus, during the fifty years from 1894-1908 the admission 
rate per thousand for liver abscess averaged 2-35 among British troops, but only 
O'l in the Native Army. It is also very rare in Indian jails compared with the 
number of cases of dysentery. This is largely explained by recent investigations 
which show jail dysentery to be nearly aU of the bacillary type, amoebic cases being 
very rare. Moreover, dysentery in the Indian army and jails always comes under 
early and efficient treatment, while liver abscess is especially liable to follow chronic 
neglected dysentery. Again, the excellent sanitary condition of the army barracks 
and jails in India may be expected to greatly lessen the incidence of amoebic dysen- 
tery among their occupants as compared with the general population. Nor are the con- 
ditions under which European and Native troops serve strictly comparable, for the two 
races are unequally distributed over Indian stations ; at the present time British troops 
alone are sent to the hills in large numbers in the hot and rainy seasons, and it is weU 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 36« 

known that sudden change of climate predisposes to both dysentery and hepatitis. 
Alcohol is also much more largely consumed by British than by Native troops. For 
these various reasons the figures for a number of years admissions for liver abscess 
the large Calcutta hospitals may be expected to furnish more reliable data for 
comparing the incidence of tropical abscess of the liver in different races, and the 
following data are of interest in this connexion. 

My tables of Medical College cases contain most of the cases from 1899 to 
1 908, and the post-mortems for the last thirty-five years. They show 300 natives 
and only thirty-one Europeans, so one-eleventh of the patients belonged to the latter 
race, while one-third of the beds are for European patients, so that in proportion 
to the beds available there were three times as many cases among the natives. On 
the other hand, if the incidence is calculated on the relative proportion of natives 
and Europeans in the population from which the admissions are derived then the 
disease is more common among Europeans. It is not possible to arrive at any 
exact estimation of the incidence of the disease in the two races from these data, 
but it is at least clear that liver abscess is very common among natives of India, 
much more so than has commonly been admitted hitherto. Lt. Colonel Hatch in 
1898 drew attention to the frequency of the disease among the native population 
in Bombay. 

The incidence among Hindus and Mohammedans is also shown in the table. 
No less than 84 per cent, were in Hindus and but 16 per cent, in Mohammedans, 
although both the admission rates for all diseases and the census figures give but 
two and a half times as many Hindus as Mohammedans. It is therefore clear that 
there is relatively twice as high an incidence among Hindus, probably largely as a 
result of their greater indulgence in alcohol, although this habit is unfortunately by 
no means uncommon among the lower classes of Mohammedans in Calcutta. 

DURATION OF RESIDENCE IN THE TROPICS OF EUROPEAN PATIENTS. 
— Among forty-five cases of liver abscess in Europeans, of which I have records 
regarding the time they had been in India, one-third had been born and bred there 
and two-thirds were immigrants. The duration of the residence in the tropics 
of the latter class was as follows. 

Tine in India Under 1 year 1-3 years 3-10 years. Over 10 years. Total 

Cases . .8 . . 6 . . 8 . . 8 . . 30 

Percentages . 26-7 . . 20-0 . . 26-7 . . 26-7 . . 100 

Thus just over one-fourth were attacked in the first year, and one-fifth in 
from one to three years of coming to India, so that long residence does not appear to 
increase the predisposition to the disease as much as might have been expected. 

ALCOHOL, especially in excess, has long been known to be an important 
predisposing cause of liver abscess, although the extreme rarity of the disease in 
temperate climates, makes it clear that it is not in itself an exciting cause of suppurat- 
ive hepatitis. The histories of the cases in the Medical College Hospital are not 
always very full, but J. W.D. Megaw, I.M.S., found that in 170 out of 229, a note 



360 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

was recorded regarding the use of alcohol by patients admitted for liver abscess. 
In 119 of these, or about 70 per cent., the stimulant had been habitually used in some 
form, while in 51, or about 30 per cent., the habit was denied. At the European 
Hospital the records are much more complete, a note of the habits regarding alcohol 
having almost always been recorded. Among fifty-five cases all took alcohol in some 
form, such being the nearly universal custom among Europeans in India. In 62 
per cent, the quantity taken was not noted. Of the remaining 38 per cent, a 
moderate amount was recorded in twenty-two, namely up to two or three whisky pegs 
a day. In the remaining 16 per cent, excess was noted — a very high proportion, 
especially when we remember the tendency of alcoholics to deny their failing ; this 
clearly indicates the marked effect of alcoholism in predisposing to liver abscess in tKe 
tropics. It has already been pointed out that the low incidence of liver abscess in 
the native army, in Indian jails, among Mohammedans, and in the female sex, are all 
in accordance with the view that alcohol predisposes to the disease in a marked 
degree, so that there can be no doubt that its habitual use is an important factor in 
the etiology of tropical liver abscess. Nevertheless, it is by no means essential to 
its causation, for suppurative hepatitis may occur in those who never take alcohol as 
well as in persons who are extremely moderate in its use. 

MALARIA has often been accused of favouring the formation of liver abscess 
especially by earlier writers in the days when nearly all forms of fever in hot climates 
were attributed to miasmatic influences. The fact that the fever, so constantly 
present in the pre-suppurative stages of liver abscess in the tropics, was very generally 
looked on and treated as malarial, is the probable origin of such a belief. In the 
many blood examinations I have made in the early febrile stage of this affection I 
do not remember to have ever found malarial parasites, while the almost constant 
leucocytosis present is alone sufficient to exclude malaria as the cause of the fever 
in most cases. In fact I know of no reliable evidence that malaria in any way 
predisposes to the formation of liver abscess. 

CHILLS are commonly looked on as predisposing or exciting causes of liver 
abscess in the tropics, but the fallacy of regarding the rigor, occurring as a symptom 
of the presence of .acute hepatitis, as a chill causing the disease, must be carefully 
guarded against. Nevertheless, the onset of severe hepatic symptoms following 
exposure to cold on a railway journey or on going from the hot plains to a hill 
station, is sufficiently frequent in persons who have suffered from dysentery or 
previous hepatitic congestion of the liver, to constitute chills an important predis- 
posing cause of liver abscess, when the exciting cause, active or latent amoebic 
dysentery, is also present. Such cases may indeed be of a very acute nature 
ending in multiple abscesses, so great care is necessary after amoebic dysentery or 
hepatitis to avoid any sudden changes of temperature. 

ETIOLOGY 

Tropical abscess of the liver presents many points of difference from collections 
of pus due to ordinary septic bacteria. They sometimes form very slowly and 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 361 

insidiously, occasionally with little or no fever or other constitutional disturbance. 
Rarely they may become spontaneously encysted and dry up, their remains being 
found unexpectedly, at a post-mortem examination years after. A large tropical 
abscess may not infrequently be present in the hver without any fever whatever. The 
pus collected on first opening the abscess differs markedly from that of ordinary septic 
abscesses for on culture it is quite free from cocci and bacteria in the great majority 
of instances. In all but very acute cases the abscess is quite locahsed and presents a 
dense fibrous wall separating it from healthy surrounding liver substance ; moreover 
it is usually single, thus differing strikingly from the multiple septic suppurations 
in this organ of a pyaemic, pylephlebitic, or cholangitic nature. All these 
facts show that the tropical Uver abscess is essentially different in its etiology from 
septic suppurations of bacterial origin. 

The discovery of a protozoal amoeba in the pus of tropical liver abscess furnished 
a sipaple explanation of these differences. Yet there has been much dispute with 
regard to the exact role, played by this organism in the causation of suppuration in 
the Hver. This was largely due to its having been found very inconstantly in the 
small number of cases reported in the earlier papers of KartuUs in Egypt and Coun- 
cilman and Lafleur in America. It has been held, especially by French writers, 
that pyogenic organisms may be present in the earlier stages of the abscess forma- 
tion but die out later. I am not aware of any acceptable explanation having been 
given why such an event should occur so commonly in an abscess of the liver, when 
it is so exceedingly rare, if indeed it occurs at all, in septic abscesses in other parts of 
the body. As I have probably had unique opportunities during the last ten years 
of investigating this subject, with the abundant material afforded by the large 
Calcutta hospitals, I venture to give my experience here. 

THE CONSTANCY OF THE PRESENCE OF AMOEBAE IN THE WALLS OF 
ACTIVE TROPICAL ABSCESS OF THE LIVER.— Earlier observers have pointed out 
that the amoeba is more readily found in the wall of a liver abscess than in its con- 
tents. This I -confirmed in Calcutta. In order to get a large number of cases I 
obtained (through the kindness of a succession of surgical colleagues at the Cal- 
cutta Medical College and European hospitals) at the time liver abscesses were opened 
some of the thick pus in one sterile test-tube, and in another a small scraping of the 
wall of the abscess taken with a sterile Volkmann's spoon. In other cases similar 
scrapings were taken at subsequent dressings. I was thus able to demonstrate 
living amoebae in thirty-five consecutive cases examined either at the time of opera- 
tion or within nine days afterwards. In two cases, not examined until twelve 
and fourteen days respectively after opening, when only a Uttle thin yellow pus was 
present, I did not find them. I have since confirmed these observations many 
times, so that it may be confidently asserted that in the wall of an active tropical 
liver abscess, that is at the seat of the diseased process, amoebae may invariably 
be found by such examinations made at the time of operation or within a few days a 
after. Post-mortem I once found amoebae absent from an encysted liver abscess, 
but present in an active one in the same organ, so that the organism may occasionally 



362 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

die out when the active process subsides. An operation undertaken in such a 
late stage might very occasionally reveal an abscess free from amoebae. 

The next important question is the exact conditions prevailing in the earhest 
stages of the abscess formation. This can only be studied in the fortunately rare 
acute multiple amoebic abscesses met with in tropical climates. I have been able to 
examine several such cases post-mortem, and have found that in nearly all of them 
cultures from a number of the small purulent collections showed their contents to be 
sterile as far as micrococci and bacteria are concerned. On the other hand the 
microscope readily revealed active amoebae in the smallest points of suppuration, 
but no bacteria of any kind. In one exceptional case a boy died unexpectedly 
while in hospital for a fractured femur, for which the tendo Achilis had been cut, the 
wound becoming septic. Several medium sized and numerous very small abscesses 
were found in the liver, which all contained both amoebae and streptococci, the latter 
organism being also present in the suppurating wound. The larger hver abscesses 
had doubtless been present before the tenotomy, so there can be no doubt the 
streptococcal complication of the older hepatic suppurations was secondary to the 
wound infection. This curious case, therefore, affords no support to the theory that 
tropical liver abscess is originally due to septic organisms, and not to the amoeba, 
but rather shows that a primarily sterile unopened amoebic abscess may be 
secondarily infected by bacteria through the blood stream. 

Once more, if sections are cut through the walls of an acute spreading liver 
abscess before any surrounding fibrous tissue wall has formed, amoebae may readily 
be found extending along the blood-vessels, while suppuration will also be seen 
spreading into the neighbouring tissues in the same manner. All this may occur 
in the total absence of any pyogenic organisms other than the amoeba. 

Lastly, the evidence given in the section on treatment shows that quinine — 
which has been proved to readily kill the amoeba, but not pyogenic organisms — 
whenVepeatedly injected into the cavity of a liver abscess without any drainage, will 
in a large proportion of cases completely cure the condition and bring about a 
cessation of the formation of pus and all symptoms of the disease. For these various 
reasons I hold that the amoeba is the active cause of tropical abscess of the liver, 
and does not require the assistance of any bacterial pyogenic organisms in any stage 
of the disease. 

PRIMARY STERILITY AS REGARDS BACTERIA OF THE GREAT MAJORITY 
OF AMOEBIC ABSCESSES OF THE LIVER. — If the pus of an amoebic abscess of the 
liver is received directly into a sterile vessel or test-tube and examined microscopic- 
ally and by culture without delay, it will be found to be free from bacteria in the great 
majority of cases. Thus, during the last two years out of eighty-seven consecutive 
cases seventy-five or 86 per cent., were sterile as regards bacteria, both microscopically 
and on culture. Cantlie stated that he observed this feature in China as long ago as 
^ about 1895. The absence of bacteria from this form of liver abscess is clearly not 
due to the contents being unfavourable to their growth, for in the damp germ-laden 
air of Calcutta bacilli and cocci rapidly make their appearance in the pus once tho 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 363 

liver abscess has been freely opened. In fact it is almost impossible to prevent this, 
especially if the discharge be abundant. I have recently examined the pus from a 
large number of cases both at the time of operation and again within a few days after, 
and in no single case did the originally sterile pus remain so for as long as three 
days after the operation. This is not surprising when we remember that the sterile 
blood-serum-like contents of a liver abscess afford an ideal culture medium for the 
organisms which must inevitably gain access to the wound either at the time of 
opening or at an early dressing. The bearing of these important facts on the 
treatment of the disease will be considered later. 

RELATIONSHIP OF ANTECEDENT DYSENTERY TO AMOEBIC LIVER 
ABSCESS. — The association of dysentery with tropical liver abscess has long been 
recognized. Yet until recently there has been much difference of opinion as to the 
exact relationship between the two diseases and the frequency with which they are 
connected. Thus, Andrew Duncan in opening a discussion on dysentery at the 
British Medical Association in 1902, expressed the opinion that the large tropical 
abscess of the liver did not bear any special relationship to antecedent dysentery, 
although multiple abscesses did. This view was largely based on the rarity of hver 
abscess following dysentery in Indian gaols and among native troops, as well as 
in the South African war. When the author first recognised the presence of amoebic 
dysentery in India further light was thrown on the subject, for the bowel disease in 
the above mentioned conditions is now known to be chiefly of the bacillary type. 

During the last ten years I have had exceptional opportunities for investi- 
gating this question in Calcutta and have collected the following data bearing on it, 
including an examination of the post-mortem records for the last thirty-five years. 
Dysenteric lesions may be frequently found post-mortem in cases in which there was 
neither a history of the disease or symptoms of it while the patient was under treat- 
ment for liver abscess. It is therefore necessary to examine a series of cases in 
which both chnical and post-mortem records are available in order to ascertain 
the true incidence of dysentery in relation to tropical hver abscess. The following 
table gives such data in sixty- three cases. 

TABLE XXXVI.— RELATIONSHIP OF DYSENTERY TO TROPICAL LIVER 

ABSCESS. 

Percentage. 
Clinical and post-mortem evidence of dysentery . . .35 cases 55-5 ) _. , 

No history but post-mortem evidence of dysentery . . 13 ., 20-6 j 

History, but no post-mortem evidence, of dysentery . . 9 ., 14-3 90-5 

No history or post-mortem evidence of dysentery . . 6 „ 9-5 

This, both a history and lesions of dysentery were recorded in over half, no 
history but post-mortem lesions in 20 per cent., and a history without lesions in 
14 per cent., giving a total of 90 5 per cent, in which evidence of dysentery was 
forthcoming. The cases in the above table include old records dating back to 
1872, when the relationship of the two diseases was less well known than latterly. 
The post-mortem records of hver abscess cases during the last ten years at th© 



364 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

Calcutta Medical CoUege Hospital, most of which have been performed by me, give 
the following figures. 

TABLE XXXVII.— BOWEL CONDITIONS IN RECENT FATAL LIVER ABSCESS 

CASES, 

Percentage. 
Amoebic dysentery present . . . . .35 cases 77-0 ) „_ _ 

Scars of former dysentery present . . . . 9 ,, 30 j 

No evidence of former dysentery found . . . 1 „ 2-2 

Evidence of dysentery, always of the amoebic type, is thus seen to be almost 
constantly found after death from amoebic abscess of the liver, while the few nega- 
tive results can easily be explained on the ground that a latent mild bowel infection 
has completely healed before death from hepatic complication, and left no very 
evident scarring. 

The clinical records of the native patients are not sufficiently complete to 
aflford accurate data regarding the frequency of previous histories of dysentery 
in liver abscess cases. An analysis of the excellent European hospital notes of the 
last nine years have yielded the following data. 



In hospital .... 

Dysentery. Within three months of admission 

Over three months before admission 
Diarrhoea only ...... 

Nil 





Percentage 


. 18 




. 10 


36 72 


8 






7 14 




7 14 



86 



There was thus a definite history or symptoms of dysentery in 72 per cent., 
while in 14 per cent, more there was diarrhoea, which is the only symptom pro- 
duced by some mild cases of amoebic disease of the large bowel. This leaves only 
14 per cent, with no evidence of intestinal flux, and we have already seen that 
this syjnptom may not rarely be absent when typical amoebic ulcers are found after 
death from liver abscess. It is also of interest to note that dysenteric symptoms 
frequently abate when those of acute hepatitis supervene, and the previous bowel 
trouble may not be mentioned by the patient unless carefully inquired for. 

Moreover, the dysentery is nearly always clearly antecedent in date to the 
hepatitis, for even in those patients who showed bowel trouble while in hospital 
for liver abscess, the history of dysentery dated back to before the liver complication 
in the very great majority. In the native series the dysentery certainly preceded 
the liver abscess in 80 per cent, of the cases in which full histories were recorded, 
while when the bowel symptoms supervened after signs of hepatitis, it was fre- 
quently only a recrudescence of old intestinal trouble. The whole of the evidence, 
then, points to amoebic dysentery, often of a latent character, as constantly pre- 
ceding the formation of tropical liver abscess. 

MODE OF FORMATION OF LIVER ABSCESS SECONDARY TO DYSENTERY.— 
The constant presence of amoebae in all but the rare encysted stage of tropical Uver 
abscess, taken together with the very close association of amoebic dysentery, either 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 365 

active or latent, with the amoebic hepatitis, can leave but little doubt that this 
protozoal parasite does pass from the large bowel to the hver in some way or other. 
Difficulties arise when we come to explain how this common complication is pro- 
duced, and particularly in the form of a large localised collection of pus. The 
organism must either travel across the peritoneal cavity to the liver, or pass through 
the portal circulation. Infection by the former route is probably very rare, although 
I have seen it occur in a case of post-colic abscess due to perforation of the ascend- 
ing colon by an amoebic ulcer, with adhesions to the hver and direct infiltration 
of the organ with pus to a shght extent. Infection by the portal route might be 
expected to produce multiple abscesses in the hver of the pylephlebitic type, such 
as occasionally arise from septic bacterial infections in sloughing of some part of 
the gastro-intestinal tract. We require much further information regarding the 
pathogenic properties of intestinal amoebae to enable us to fully understand the 
Uver compUcations they produce, yet a study of the lesions produced in the hver 
in different stages and degrees of acuteness of the disease throws considerable 
hgbt on the subject. 

PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF AMOEBIC ABSCESS OF THE LIVER.— 
The microscopical changes in the Uver vary very widely according to the acuteness 
and duration of the disease, which are naturally in inverse ratio to each other. 
The more common and characteristic large single abscess is surrounded by a dense 
fibrous wall, which effectually shuts it off from the surrounding healthy hver 
substance. Once this limiting membrane is formed the swelling increases by 
expansion and pushing on one side of the hver substance rather than through its 
further destruction. Thus, I have several times seen a huge single amoebic 
abscess in the right lobe of the Uver, which had expanded downwards to the level of 
the anterior superior spine of the iUum or even further, and formed a fluctuating 
bag containing four or more pints of thick pus. Yet the greater part of the right 
lobe as well as the whole of the left, remained quite healthy in appearance. Were 
this not the case it is difficult to conceive a patient surviving long enough to enable 
abscesses holding four to six pints of pus to develop in the substance of the liver ; 
moreover the rapid and complete recovery which has ensued, even in such cases 
when treated without open drainage, in the manner to be described later, proves con- 
clusively that even in extreme cases of amoebic abscess, most of the liver substance 
escapes destruction. In this stage we have what we may well call a pyogenic 
membrane secreting pus, but prevented from further encroachment on the sur- 
rounding liver substance by a dense fibrous waU, formed by a chronic inflammatory 
process of a protective nature. In this advanced condition all trace of the original 
mode of origin of the abscess formation is necessarily lost. 

At the other extreme we find the most acute and rapidly advancing amoebic 
hepatitis, usually producing multiple abscesses, some of a considerable size, but 
others still in a very early condition. It is in these cases that the primary stages 
of the process can best be investigated. Taking first the larger ragged walled 
actively advancing abscesses, sections show the process to be extending along the 



366 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

veins into the surrounding tissue. Clots containing amoebae are seen in the lumen 
of the veins, some of the organisms showing granular degenerative changes. The 
circulation is thus obstructed, a further zone of liver substance breaks down, and 
so the process extends. In these cases there will commonly also be found some 
minute multiple abscesses as small as a pin's head, and these are sometimes very 
numerous. Sections of the smallest of these clearly show the process to com- 
mence in one of the minute branches of the portal vein, within the lumen of which 
amoebae entangled in breaking down blood clot may be seen, together with an excess 
of leucocytes. It is clear that in these instances the organisms have been brought 
to the liver through the portal vein, moreover Councilman and Lafleur have 
found *them in the origins of the portal system in the submucous coat of the large 
bowel in amoebic dysentery. As already mentioned these very earliest stages of 
multiple amoebic liver abscesses are usually quite free from all bacteria, and the 
same is true of very large acute sloughing cavities, so the amoeba is certainly able 
by itself to break down the liver substance, and the formation of numerous amoebic 
abscesses of the liver secondary to amoebic dysentery by infection through the 
portal vein is easily understood. 

The production of a single abscess, or a very few circumscribed large abscesses 
with dense fibrous walls remains to be accoimted for. In 1 903 1 suggested the follow- 
ing explanation of this seeming anomaly. It has been shown in the section on 
pre-suppurative amoebic hepatitis that acute inflammation of the hver, with high 
fever, profuse sweating, extreme tenderness of the liver, and marked leucoc3rtosis all 
following amoebic dysentery may continue for a considerable time without any 
actual abscess formation, as shown by the rapid subsidence of all the sjrmptoms 
under appropriate treatment. In this condition there can be little doubt that 
the hepatitis is set up by amoebae carried to the liver in considerable numbers 
through the portal circulation, producing acute congestion and probably clotting 
in some of the smaller branches of the portal veins, where they may become entangled 
and undergo degenerative changes without being able to escape through the vessel 
walls to break down the liver substance into an abscess. As long as the organisms 
are widely distributed in small numbers through the organ no suppuration may take 
place, but if at any one or more parts of the liver they should chance to be sufficiently 
numerous to produce clotting in a number of contiguous vessels, to such an extent 
as to cut off the circulation through a small part of the liver, then a necrotic focus 
will be formed, which wiU produce softening of the vessel walls, and enable the 
amoebae to escape and break down the liver substance. Once this process has been 
started the organism will invade the vessels of the surrounding tissue, as seen in 
the waU of an advancing liver abscess, producing further clotting and breaking 
down of another layer. The abscess, thus commenced, will extend by disintegration 
of concentric layers, until it becomes limited by a fibrous capsule, formed by the 
reaction of the liver substance, when the cavity will continue to enlarge by the 
secretion of pus by the containing wall and expand the organ until eventually a huge 
single localised tropical abscess results. All the very various degrees of amoebic 
abscess of the liver, from the most acute multiple ones, all arising within a week 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 367 

or ten days, to the single chronic cases of months' duration, may thus be readily 
explained as being solely caused by this protozoal parasite. 

VARIETIES, PROGRESS, AND COMPUCATIONS OF TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 

Before the days of early surgical interference tropical liver abscess commonly 
ran a long and varied course, frequently involving surrounding cavities or viscera, 
which varied with the part of the organ in which it arose. Among native 
patients, more especially, such terminations are still not infrequently seen on 
account of their habit of coming to hospital only after having suffered for months 
and tried all kinds of quack remedies. The complications which may thus arise 
are numerous, and often present considerable difficulties in arriving at a correct 
diagnosis. For example, in one obscure abdominal case a post-mortem revealed 
an abscess of the left lobe of the liver opening into the stomach, together with stran- 
gulation of the small intestine by extensive fibrous peritoneal adhesions, secondary to 
amoebic dysentery of a chronic nature. A study of the various conditions observed 
post-mortem in 164 fatal hver abscesses in the last thirty-five years at the Calcutta 
Medical College Hospital, will best enable the relative frequency and importance 
of the different terminations of the disease to be described. The subject is 
further complicated by the frequency with which two or more large abscesses 
may be present at the same time, as well as multiple small ones. 

THE RELATIVE FREQUENCY OF SINGLE AND MULTIPLE AMOEBIC 
LIVER ABSCESS. — In the first place it is important to know what proportion of 
cases are single and multiple respectively, for the latter will be less rapidly fatal 
and more amenable to treatment. As the records go back over so many years, 
during which the treatment of the disease has undergone considerable modification, 
I have divided them up into two periods. The first includes all the post-mortems 
up to 1886 and the second from the latter date to 1908. The cases showing mul- 
tiple abscesses have been subdivided into two groups. One includes those in which 
two or more large or moderate sized well-circumscribed abscesses were found, which 
are clearly similar in nature to the typical single large abscess. The other group 
show one or more large or fair sized cavities, together with a number, sometimes 
very many, small acute suppurative points, evidently of more recent and acute 
formation and quite different in character to the fibrous-walled locaUsed collections 
of the former class. These last multiple acute abscesses are commonly accompanied 
by well marked dysentery, and they run an acute course not amenable to surgical 
measures, although I beUeve them to be readily preventable in the pre-suppurative 
stage by the treatment described in an earlier section. When, however, patients 
only come under observation in this late stage no treatment is likely to be of any 
avail. In others small multiple abscesses are foimd after death in addition to a single 
large cavity of much earlier date, which has been opened some time before the fatal 
event. Here the multiple abscesses must have formed after the operation in one of 
two ways. Firstly, as a result of the steady continuing infection of the liver from 
a persistent amoebic dysentery, perhaps of a latent type, which has not been treated 

24 



368 



FEVERS m THE TROPICS 



with ipecacuanha. This is not an uncommon event, but one which is easily pre- 
ventable by the use of the same drug which is effective in pre-suppurative amoebic 
hepatitis. Secondly, fresh suppuration may be due to the infection of the original 
large abscess cavity, after it has been opened, by septic bacteria. That the latter 
is not very rare is clear from the fact that in several of the post-mortems of the 
last two decades pyaemic abscesses were found both in the liver and in other organs 
such as the lungs, spleen and brain, in addition to a typical tropical abscess with thick 
fibrous walls which had been opened. This septic comphcation is exceedingly difficult to 
prevent in a damp hot cUmate as already explained. It is noteworthy that the figures 
in the table below show a larger proportion of the combination of a single large abscess 
with a number of smaU ones during recent years than before 1886. This is probably 
partly due to the recovery of a greater proportion of single liver abscesses with 
improvements in surgical treatment, and also in part to the greater neglect of the 
ipecacuanha treatment of acute , hepatitis, which was empirically advocated by 
Maclean and Norman Chevers many years ago, and recently revived and placed on 
a more scientific basis by the writer. 

The following table shows the number and proportions of the different forms 
of liver abscess just described. 



TABLE XXXVIII.— THE FREQUENCY OF SINGLE AND MULTIPLE LIVER 

ABSCESS POST-MORTEM. 





1873-86. 


1886-1908. 


Total. 




Number. 


Per cent. 


Number. 


Per cent. 


Number. 


Per cent. 


Single abscess 

Two or more large abscesses . 
Large plus several small . 


33 
16 
10 


55-9 
271 
170 


52 
23 
30 


49-5 
21-9 
28-6 


85 
39 
40 


51-8 
23-8 
24-4 



These figures show that just over haK the total fatahties were single abcesses. 
The recovery rate during the last two decades is just 40 per cent, (see figures under 
mortahty) which wiU almost invariably be singe abscess cases. To get the pro- 
portion of single abscesses among the total admissions we must add the 40 per cent, 
of recoveries to half the deaths among the 60 per cent, of fatahties, and we thus find 
that 70 per cent, of the total admissions are single abscesses. There is evidently 
much room for improvement in the death rate if any safer and less exhausting method 
of treatment than the open operation can be devised. 

THE FREQUENCY AND DISTRIBUTION OF TWO OR MORE LARGE 
ABSCESSES. — Among the cases showing more than one locaUsed collection of pus 
in the liver the number and distribution was as follows. 

Two abscesses ........ 17 44-7 per cent. 

Three „ 10 26-3 

Pour „ 7 18-4 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



369 



Over four ..... 
All in the right lobe of the liver 
Abscesses in both lobes 
All in the left lobe . 



10-6 per 'cent. 

15 

13 





Thus in nearly half the cases only two abscesses were present, in one-fourth 
three were found, and in the remaining 29 per cent, four or more. I have records 
of several cases in which more than one Uver abscess has been opened and drained 
when in hospital, but in only one of them did recovery take place. Sir Havelock 
Charles mentions a recovery from three Uver abscesses, but such cases must be exceed- 
ingly rare. It is obvious that very few patients with such a serious illness as two 
or more large collections of pus in the Uver wiU be in a condition to stand the shock 
and exhaustion of each being opened and drained. Even when close together they 
do not tend to drain into each other on account of the dense fibrous waU which 
usuaUy separates them, while nearly half of the above multiple cases showed 
abscesses in both lobes of the liver. Yet these very unpromising cases under 
ordinary surgical treatment form a considerable proportion of the total admissions 
for Uver abscess. Possibly some of them may be saved in future by my plan of 
repeated aspiration and injection of quinine, by which means more than one coUec- 
tion of pus could be readily dealt with, if recognized and located by exploration, 
guided when possible by previous X-ray examination. 



DISTRIBUTION AND COURSE OF SINGLE LIVER ABSCESS.— i. ABSCESS 
OF THE LEFT LOBE. — Only 14 out of 85 single abscesses were in the left lobe, 
that is 16"4 per cent. One involved both lobes. On account of its smaU size, left 
lobe collections of pus become clinicaUy evident while the abscess is stiU smaU and 
readily amenable to surgical treatment. UncompUcated cases are therefore rarely 
fatal. Thus, among the 14 cases examined post-mortem no less than 13 showed some 
serious complication due to involvement of surrounding viscera as will be seen from 
the foUowing data. 



TABLE XXXIX.— COMPLICATIONS OF LEFT LOBE ABSCESSES. 

Suprahepatic abscess ..... 
Abscess in the base of the right lung 

„ ,, left lung 

Abscess opening into the pericardium 
Suppurative pericarditis without perforation 
Sub-hepatic abscess . . . . . 

Abscess opening into the stomach . 

„ ,, ,, and pericardium 

,, opening into the lesser peritoneum 
Uncomplicated ...... 

Total 



1 
1 
3 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 

14 



Most of these complicated cases occurred among the earUer records, but they 
are stiU met with in patients admitted late in the disease. In two cases opening 



370 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



into the pericardium, as well as in pericarditis without perforation, no less than 
twenty ounces of pus were found in the sac. The involvement of the base of the 
left lung is important to bear in mind, as it is much rarer than that of the similar 
comphcation at the right base secondary to right lobe abscesses, thus it may easily be 
overlooked. On the other hand, when a left lobe abscess bulges on the under sur- 
face of the hver adhesions are quickly formed as a result of localised peritonitis, and 
the abscess tends to open into the stomach. The tendency of left lobe abscesses to 
rapidly spread to surrounding structures indicates the necessity for early surgical 
measures in their treatment. 

LARGE ABSCESSES OF THE RIGHT LOBE.— On account of the much greater 
bulk and deeper situation of the right lobe of the liver large amoebic abscesses both 
occur much more frequently and attain a greater size before implicating surrounding 
parts. They show the same marked tendency to cause the formation of adhesions 
when they reach the surface of the organ, and may thus open through the diaphragm 
into the bases of the lungs or into the gastro-intestinal canal, or even discharge 
externally, without any of their contents escaping into the pleural or peritoneal cavi- 
ties. The commonest position of right lobe abscesses is in the upper posterior 
part coming to the surface just beneath the diaphragm and rapidly forming adhe- 
sions to it. Those situated more anteriorly produce enlargement of the organ down- 
wards and come into contact with the anterior abdominal wall just below the costal 
margin. Less frequently they appear on the under surface of the liver, when they 
may open into the colon or duodenum, or occasionally form a post-peritoneal abscess 
extending down into the lumbar region. The frequency of these various terminations, 
together with some rarer ones met with in the thirty-five years' Calcutta records 
may be seen from the following data. 

TABLE XL.— COMPLICATIONS AND TERMINATIONS OF RIGHT LOBE 

LIVER ABSCESS. 



Perihepatic suppuration in addition 

Secondary abscess in the base of the right lung 

Purulent pleurisy preceding operation 

,, ,, after operation through the right pi 

„ ,, doubtful if after operation or not 

Opening into hepatic flexure of the colon 

,, caecum ..... 

,, ,, duodenvun ..... 
,. ,, pericardium ..... 
,, ,, inferior vena cava 
Acute general peritonitis without operation 
„ „ „ following operation . 

„ ,, „ of lesser peritoneal sac 

Post-peritoneal secondary abscess 
Haemorrhage after operation 



Total 



4 

26 

3 

16 
3 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
10 
3 
I 
5 

81 



By far the most frequent comphcation is the spread of the disease through 
the diaphragm to involve the base of the right lung. It is especially noteworthy how 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 371 

rarely empyema results in such cases owing to failure of the formation of adhesions 
between the base of the lung and the perforated diaphragm. Yet, when the pleural 
cavity is opened in draining a liver abscess cavity through the diaphragm before such 
adhesions have taken place, fatal suppurative pleurisy only too frequently results. 
In analyzing the cases the striking fact was ascertained that among jBf ty right lobe 
abscesses in the post-mortem records up to 1886 in none did empyema follow opera- 
tion, which during those days was most commonly performed at a late stage of the 
disease when adhesions had formed. Yet after that date this very serious com- 
plication of the trans-pleural operation occurred in no less than sixteen out of ninety- 
nine right lobe abscesses, and possibly in three more. Similarly, in the earlier series 
peritonitis only once followed the opening of a Hver abscess by the abdominal route, 
while in the later cases this fatal complication occurred nine times. In one case a 
large thin-walled abscess had been aspirated only. Acute peritonitis followed, 
which was foimd post-mortem to have been caused by a rupture of the waU at its 
thinnest part about one inch from the puncture, doubtless by hydrostatic pressure 
at the time of the puncture. EarHer operations must have saved some cases from 
developing serious comphcations, but it is clear that incisions across the pleural and 
peritoneal sacs before adhesions have formed add grave risks to the operation. 
The next most frequent complication is opening of the abscess into the colon or 
duodenum, and in one case into the caecum after tracking down along the colon. 
None of th« right lobe abscesses opened into the stomach. One abscess in the left 
upper part of the right lobe opened into the pericardium, while another near the 
posterior part of the under surface perforated the inferior vena cava. 

HAEMORRHAGE AFTER OPERATION caused death in five cases, all during 
the more recent years of early operations. In four the bleeding took place into the 
abdominal cavity following puncture of the liver, while in one an abscess, which 
had been opened through the thoracic wall, was filled with large blood clots. 

PERI-HEPATIC ABSCESSES. — We have already seen that amoebic abscesses 
of the liver tend to involve surrounding structures. They may thus form the so- 
called supra- and sub-hepatic abscesses about which much has been written. The 
question arises whether an amoebic abscess may originate in one of these positions, 
without the liver itself having been first involved. The post-mortem appearances 
may at first sight suggest such an occurrence, the collection of pus being bounded 
on one side by what looks like the thickened capsule of the liver. If, however, micro- 
scopical sections through this wall are examined it will be found that the liver sub- 
stance has been involved and the Umiting membrane is but the deeper fibrous wall 
of a primary abscess of the liver, the superficial part of which has merged into the 
perihepatic collection of pus. I have carefully examined several of these cases, as well 
as the post-mortem records of many more, and have never been able to satisfy my- 
self that any amoebic peri-hepatic abscess can arise primarily outside the liver itself. 
What happens is that when a superficial amoebic liver abscess opens into some 
surrounding area, the original cavity soon contracts down to leave but a shght 
excavation of the surface of the liver, and the primary seat of the suppuration is 



372 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



thus obsoured. For example, a large amoebic abscess affecting the greater part 
of the lower lobe of the right lung, may at the time of death be only connected 
with its origin in the upper surface of the liver by a small perforation of the dia- 
phragm, which leads to a depression in the surface of the liver which will only admit 
the tip of the finger : the contents of the hepatic cavity have aU been discharged 
into the lung abscess. The precise nature of such cases may be impossible of 
recognition at the time of the operation for opening a supra-hepatic or secondary 
lung abscess. 

OLD ENCYSTED LIVER ABSCESS. — It is well known that tropical abscess in 
the hver may occasionally encyst and dry up, spontaneous cure thus resulting. 
That this is not an extraordinarily rare event is shown by the fact that no less 
than seven such instances are recorded in the Calcutta post-mortems on patients 
dying of other conditions, while in two more an encysted abscess was found in addi- 
tion to an active amoebic one in the Uver. In one instance I found an encysted 
abscess with smooth walls containing no amoebae, together with two recent ones 
containing the protozoal parasite in an active form. The frequency of these cases 
is of particular interest and importance as an encouragement to imitate and assist 
nature's method of cure, by aspiration of the pus and injection of some substance 
which will destroy the parasites which cause it. 

SYMPTOMS AND PHYSICAL SIGNS 

The foregoing account of the very varying course and complications of amoebic 
Kver abscess will have prepared us to expect equally marked differences in the clinical 
symptoms of this serious disease. These are indeed so great that clear ideas on the 
subject can best be conveyed by sub-dividing the affection according to the degree of 
acuteness of the cases, it being clearly understood that they shade off one into another, 
so as to form a regular gradation, from the fulminant multiple abscesses, to the 
most insidious chronic ones, with few if any local symptoms leading the observer 
to suspect the liver as the origin of an obscure illness. Between these two extremes 
come the sub-acute cases which form the most frequent and typical variety. 

FULMINANT MULTIPLE ABSCESSES OF THE LIVER.— These are fortunately 
somewhat uncommon, only 12 per cent, of the Calcutta European Hospital cases dur- 
ing the last nine years having been of this type. In one of these the total duration of 
the hepatitis before death was six and seven days respectively, in another eleven days, 
and in the remaining two sixteen and eighteen days. In one such case the patient 
developed acute hepatitis following a chill at a dance. When I first saw him soon 
after he had no leucocytosis and I advised ipecacuanha. I had not then devised the 
method of giving it in keratin capsules : he vomited and his doctor left it off. I saw 
him again a week after, when the liver had increased considerably in size, was 
extremely tender, while leucocytosis was now present. He was operated on the 
same day and the liver found to be riddled with abscesses breaking down one into 
another without any localising fibrous wall and he died the same day. The acute 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS '373 

suppurative stage was here certainly under one week's duration. The only chance of 
saving such cases is the early and persistent use of the ipecacuanha treatment from 
the first onset of the acute hepatic symptoms. In almost every case of this fulmin- 
ant type there is a clear history of dysentery, generally within a short time before the 
onset and frequently persisting during the development of the hepatitis, thus the origin 
and nature of the disease should be easily recognizable at an early period. The symp- 
toms are those to be described under the subacute type in an aggravated degree. 
There is fever of high remittent type with rapid rises and falls of the temperature 
curve, frequently with rigors accompanying the exacerbations and nearly always 
very copious sweats with the dechnes. More rarely continued fever may be present. 
The liver rapidly enlarges and becomes acutely painful and tender, so that the 
weight of the bed-clothes cannot be tolerated. A sHght degree of jaundice is more 
frequent in this form than in less acute cases. 

SUBACUTE AND USUALLY SINGLE ABSCESS OF THE LIVER.— Under this 
class the great bulk of cases come, so it best illustrates the usual symptoms and 
course of the disease. The following description is mainly based on an analysis of 
fuU notes of sixty consecutive cases treated at the Emropean Hospital during 
nine years, the great majority of which I had an opportunity of watching, as well 
as from a much larger number in the Medical College Hospital. 

FEVER. — The premonitory fever in the pre-suppurative stage has already 
been fully illustrated by a number of temperature charts in Section VI. The type 
of fever in cases with actual abscess formation was variable. In over half it was 
of the remittent variety, usually falling to below 100° in the morning and rising to 
103° or 104° in the evening, but in one-fifth of the cases it was of a higher remittent 
type, not falling below 100° for several days together. In only one-seventh was 
a high continued fever recorded, that is a temperature keeping above 101° and not 
varying more than two degrees Fahr. in the twenty-four hours, these cases being com- 
monly fatal, or at least very severe. In one-fifth the temperature was intermittent 
in character, while in two out of fifty-seven it was normal for the few days the 
patient was in hospital before the abscess was opened. Among native patients, 
coming to hospital with a large bulging hver abscess, it is by no means rare for the 
temperature to remain quite normal as long as the abscess is intact, although unfor- 
tunately the almost inevitable bacterial infection which follows the open operation 
is usuallj'^ accompanied by a rise of temperature. Thus, the degree of fever is 
highest in actively enlarging deep seated abscesses, while in the more chronic 
type, especially when the tension is reduced by the abscess bulging through the 
capsule and making its way towards the surface, the fever is less and may even 
entirely subside, only a history of its having been present at an earlier stage being 
obtained. 

COPIOUS SWEATS are a frequent sjnnptom, especially in the more acute cases, 
these may produce two or more depressions in the temperature curve within twenty- 
four hours. They may be so copious as to soak through the bed-clothes. 



374 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

Jaundice is not a marked symptom of amoebic hepatitis, although a sHght degree 
may be present in acute cases. In the more slowly developing abscesses it is usually 
absent altogether. In one patient in whom intense jaundice was present, sterile 
amoeba-containing pus was aspirated from the Uver, after which the jaundice de- 
creased somewhat. He died a few days later, when a very large single acute abscess 
was ^found occupying the greater part of the right lobe containing large sloughs. 
It had completely dissected out the neck of the gaU bladder and pressed on the 
bile ducts, which, however, readily allowed the passage of a probe ; this pressure 
had been suspected during life. 

The GENERAL CONDITION of the patient is very variable. As a general rule 
there is great weakness and exhaustion with rapid wasting and loss of weight. 
The appetite is usually, but not always, lost. The facial expression is anxious 
and pinched. 

The LOCAL SYMPTOMS will vary from mere discomfort and heaviness in 
the right hjrpochondrium in the more insidious case^, to acute pain and tenderness 
in the acute ones. A very common symptom is inabihty to he on one or other side. 
Usually the patient cannot turn over on to his left side on account of a dragging 
pain due to the weight of the enlarged organ causing some displacement on move- 
ment. If the abscess is situated in the upper part of the liver just beneath the 
diaphragm, the pain may also be referred to the tip of the right shoulder or even 
pass down the inner side of the right arm. This symptom was seldom noted in 
abscess of the left lobe. It is most frequent, and indeed rarely absent, in those 
right lobe abscesses which make their way through the diaphragm to involve the 
base of the right lung. When the abscess involves the anterior portion of the 
liver the organ is enlarged below the costal margin, and the pain is felt chiefly in 
the right hypochondrium and epigastrium. In left lobe abscess it may extend 
into the left hypochondrium, where I have known a Hver tumour to be mistaken for 
an enlargement of the spleen. The Uver may be so tender that the abdominal 
wall becomes rigidly contracted over it so that the edge cannot be felt, and the 
degree of enlargement can only be ascertained by light percussion. Friction may 
occasionally be heard due to locahsed peritonitis which results in the formation of 
adhesions over the advancing abscess. At a later stage, when a bulging swelling 
has formed in the epigastrium, there may be Uttle or no pain and tenderness, 
especially in native patients. 

AU the foregoing symptoms, including even a slight degree of tumour formation 
in the epigastrium, are common to both the pre-suppurative stage as well as the actual 
abscess formation in the Hver. In fact there is no symptom, other than some of 
the physical signs stiU to be mentioned, by which it is possible to say with certainty 
that pus has already formed in the organ. Hence previous to marked tumour 
formation, indicative of a locahsed abscess, has made its appearance, the only way 
of deciding this question was to do an exploratory puncture under an anaesthetic. 
Unfortunately such punctures are far from being the harmless procedure which 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



375 



might be gathered from some textbooks, several fatal haemorrhages as a result 
having already been mentioned. This subject will be further dealt with imder 
the head of treatment. 

THE DURATION OF SYMPTOMS BEFORE LOCAL PHYSICAL SIGNS OF 
LIVER ABSCESS ARE PRESENT.— Before all cases of acute hepatitis were treated 
with ipecacuanha at the European Hospital, it was a common event for a patient to 
be admitted some time before signs of Uver abscess developed, although such cases 
do not now occur there. The duration of iUness before abscess of the Uver was 
recognizable has been worked out from the histories and notes of the cases, and the 
data are given in the following table. 

TABLE XLI.— DURATION OF SYMPTOMS BEFORE LIVER ABSCESS IS 

CLINICALLY EVIDENT. 





Multiple. 


Left lobe. 


Right lobe pointing through — 




Abdomi- j^jb3. 
nal wall. 


Lupg. Total. 


Per cent. 


Under 1 week .... 

1 to 2 weeks .... 

2 weeks to 1 month 

1 to 2 months .... 

Over 2 months. 

Time doubtful .... 


2 

1 

2 


2 
2 

1 
2 


1 2 
4 8 

2 ! 5 

3 8 
1 1 1 


1 3 

2 8 

3 19 

— 7 
6 18 

— 1 2 


5-2 
13-4 
32.9 
11-9 
30-5 

6-7 


Total 

Percentage 


5 

8-4 


7 
11-9 


11 1 24 12 ! 59 
18-6 1 40-7 20-8 





The short course of multiple abscesses has already been pointed out. Next 
to these come small abscesses in the left lobe of the liver, which rapidly produce 
local sweUing in the epigastrium within one to four weeks of the first symptoms. 
The larger right lobe abscesses, coming to the surface in the right epigastrium, are 
very much more variable in their size and in the duration of symptoms in accord- 
ance with the depth at which they arise. In the still more deeply situated abscesses 
in the upper part of the right lobe beneath the thoracic wall, the duration of the 
symptoms before operation was over a month in a shght majority, while in only 
two was the time recorded as less than two weeks. One of these short cases was 
diagnosed early by a blood examination and X-rays. The last group includes 
right lobe abscesses opening through the lungs. Half of these had a history not 
exceeding a month, including one of less than a week, but some of these doubtless 
belonged to the insidious variety developing without any definite localising symp- 
toms pointing to the liver in the earlier stages. The remaining half had histories 
of over two months' duration, two of the patients having been ill two and four 
months respectively, so that this form is commonly the most chronic of all. Taking 
all the varieties together, one-fifth only had a history not exceeding two weeks, one- 



376 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

third from two weeks to a month, and nearly one-half a duration of over one month. 
It is impossible to say what portion of the illness occurred before actual suppuration 
took place, and consequently how long an abscess had been present before it made 
its presence felt. Still it is clear that the more deep seated the position of the pus, 
the longer is the period and the larger is the abscess Ukely to be, and vice versa. 

THE DIAGNOSTIC PHYSICAL SIGNS OF LOCAUSED UVER ABSCESS 

The local physical signs of tropical Uver abscess vary widely according to the 
position of the collection of pus, so that each of the classes shown in the above 
table must be separately described. 

ABSCESS OF THE LEFT LOBE OF THE LIVER.— Among the European Hos- 
pital cases 11*9 per cent, belonged to this class, while at the Medical College Hospital, 
where the great majority of the patients were natives, the proportion of left lobe 
abscesses was 18'3 per cent. They frequently form prominent swellings in the 
epigastrium usually accompanied by local pain and tenderness. In a late stage 
they become adherent to the anterior abdominal wall and present evident fluctua- 
tion, when there may be very little pain. Such cases may be very easily mistaken 
for an abscess in the abdominal wall itself, and I have known a liver abscess point- 
ing in this position to be opened as such in the out-patient department, its origin 
in the liver being only recognized on the escape of a large amount of the characteristic 
thick reddish pus of an amoebic abscess. Left lobe abscesses bulging on the 
under surface of the hver present greater diflficulties in diagnosis. They produce 
signs of localised peritonitis in the upper abdomen and tend to open into the stomach, 
if not detected and evacuated in good time. In one patient who had been unsuccess- 
fully explored in several places for liver abscess, a quantity of typical pus was vomited 
on the following day, and he eventually made a good recovery by nature's method 
of cure. A disproportionately great increase in the liver dullness in the epigastric 
region accompanjdng acute hepatitis should indicate the probabihty of suppuration 
having taken place in the left lobe. Still more difficult of localisation is an abscess 
in the upper edge of the left lobe, which may only reveal itself by the suppuration 
extending to the pericardium or base of the left lung. 

RIGHT LOBE ABSCESS IN RELATION WITH THE ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL 
WALL. — This class is a fairly large one, as an abscess in the anterior and lower part 
of the right lobe enlarges the organ downwards into the right hypochondrium. 
They only differ from the common form of left lobe abscess in the sweUing being 
placed more to the right and much more frequently attaining a large size. They 
form a local tender swelhng, producing marked extension of the liver dullness down- 
wards below the costal margin, while the lower ribs may be pushed somewhat out- 
wards and upwards by the tumour. Friction sounds may sometimes be heard over 
them, but these disappear as adhesions are formed to the parietes, when superficial 
oedema may appear. In some very advanced cases a fluctuating swelling, continuous 
with the liver dullness, may extend far down into the right lumbar region and even 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 377 

reach the iliac area. If evacuation occurs into the colon or duodenum, pus may be 
passed in the stools coincidentally with a marked reduction in the extent of the 
hver duUness, and recovery may eventually take place. 

ABSCESS OF THE RIGHT LOBE IN RELATION WITH THE THORACIC 
WALL. — This is the commonest situation of a large single liver abscess, no less 
than 40*7 per cent, of the European series and 45'5 per cent, of the operation cases 
among natives belonging to this variety. Owing to the less yielding nature of 
the thoracic, as compared with the abdominal wall, these abscesses are longer in 
producing clear indications of their presence, and cause greater difficulties of diag- 
nosis in their earher stages. The first physical sign will be a marked increase of 
the Uver dullness, mainly in an upward direction, but also extending below the 
costal margin to some extent. Then bulging of the right lower ribs, with an 
increase in the circumference of the chest on that side will appear. On auscultating 
over the base of the right lung there will be diminution of the breath sounds, due 
to cessation of the movements of the right half of the diaphragm, which is readily 
demonstrable with the aid of the X-rays. The lower costal spaces may be wider 
than normal, and in advanced cases they will be full and even present actual fluctua- 
tion. Locahsed oedema of the superficial parietes is often a valuable diagnostic 
sign of suppuration having taken place ; some surgeons consider this to be certain 
evidence of pus. I have, however, several times found it quite distinct in cases of 
acute hepatitis which rapidly yielded to the ipecacuanha treatment, so that, at 
any rate, its presence is not a certain sign that surgical interference is necessary. 
When the abscess is nearing the surface, the skin may in addition present a glossy 
appearance indicating the position in which it will point. This variety often 
reaches a large size, and may contain from one to three or more pints of pus. Explor- 
atory puncture is more frequently required to confirm a suspicion of liver abscess 
beneath the ribs than in the case of the former varieties. 

LIVER ABSCESS OPENING THROUGH THE LUNGS.— Thife variety comprised 
20*8 per cent, of the European series, but only 78 per cent, of the native cases. The 
latter figure is doubtless an under estimate, as this class is commonly admitted to 
the medical wards and some of the notes may not have reached my hands. They 
may be very acute, and rapidly perforate the diaphragm to form a secondary abscess 
in the base of the right lung. More frequently they belong to the chronic insidious 
class, with obscure fever, eventually evacuating itself through a main bronchus 
quite unexpectedly, producing copious thick reddish purulent expectoration with 
little or no odour ; differing widely in the last respect from most primary pulmonary 
abscesses. In the acuter cases there will be similar physical signs to those described 
in the last class, with the addition of those dependent on involvement of the lung, 
namely dullness and marked or total loss of breath sounds at the right base, often 
extending up to the angle of the scapula. Vocal resonance may be increased at 
first, due to inflammatory consohdation of the lung, but diminished as it breaks 
down into pus. X-rays are of great diagnostic value here by revealing a dense 



378 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

shadow in the affected part of the lung, in addition to the fixation of the diaphragm 
so commonly present in hepatitis alone. I have, however, once seen a shadow 
appear at the base of the right lung during subacute hepatitis, which cleared up 
completely under ipecacuanha, so that presumably actual suppuration had not taken 
place. Great difficulty may arise in determining whether a shadow and dullness 
at the base of the right lung, continuous with that of the liver, is due to primary 
pulmonary disease, or secondary to hepatitis. The blood changes, to be described 
later, are here of great assistance. 



INSIDIOUS CHRONIC ABSCESS OF THE LIVER.— Lastly we have a class of 
very slowly forming liver abscess, which presents great difficulties in recognition. 
The illness begins with a feehng of being out of sorts, and on taking the temperature 
a sHght evening rise will be found, sometimes not exceeding 100°F. The bowels 
may previously have shown some irregularity, such as occasional shght diarrhoea, 
commonly alternating with constipation, but often there is no history of any recent 
definite dysenteric attack. The patient is usually treated for malaria or low fever 
with full doses of quinine for a long period without deriving any benefit, or he is 
sent for an equally ineffective change. On further examination slight enlargement 
of the liver dullness may be detected, or the edge of the organ may be felt below the 
ribs, but there is no pain or tenderness, but only a dull, heavy or dragging sensation 
in the right hjrpochondrium. The patient will have lost much weight, his appetite 
will be poor and all his former energy abated. At length one day he develops 
a cough and his physician is astonished at his suddenly expectorating a large quantity 
of pus, similar in appearance to that of a tropical Hver abscess, and the obscure 
illness at once becomes intelligible. In one such case a distinguished medical man, 
after retiring from the Indian service on account of a long iUness, coughed up a 
liver abscess in England and recovered his health once more. In another, a Govern- 
ment official had for four months been suffering from an obscure low fever which 
would not yield to quinine, the day before he was to sail for England on leave 
he began to cough up pus ; a blood examination indicated that it was coming 
from the Hver, so he went into hospital, where an hepatic abscess was opened and 
he eventually recovered after a long illness. In other cases enlargement of the 
hver becomes more pronounced and leads to an exploratory puncture locating the 
abscess. It is in cases of chronic hepatitis such as these that we possess in the blood 
changes described in Section VI a method of diagnosis from other chronic tropical 
fevers which should indicate a line of treatment which wiU assuredly prevent abscess 
formation if the condition is detected in time. Hence the importance of bearing this 
difficult class of case in mind, and not negativing the possibihty of serious hver disease 
because there are no definite signs imphcating this organ. Should such a chronic 
hepatitis fail to yield to a course of ipecacuanha of two or more weeks' duration, 
the advisabihty of an exploratory puncture of the liver must be considered, and 
X-rays may be of use by reveahng the shadow of a deepTseated locahsed col- 
lection of pus in the organ. 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



379 



THE BLOOD CHANGES IN LIVER ABSCESS AND THEIR DIAGNOSTIC 
VALUE. — A few years ago I looked on the presence of leucocytosis as an important 
diagnostic sign of the presence of abscess formation in cases of acute hepatitis, in 
accordance with the then general opinion on the subject. I have, however, recently 
shown that even high degrees of this change may be present in the pre-suppurative 
stage of amoebic hepatitis. Illustrative cases will be found in the table on page 
175, as many as 28,500 white corpuscles having been recorded in a case which com- 
pletely subsided without abscess formation. The following data show the degree 
of leucocytosis in a series of Uver abscess cases in European patients, which it will 
be seen are closely similar to those of hepatitis without purulent collections. The 
two cases with the highest counts were both instances of rapidly fatal multiple 
abscesses with 35,000 and 38,000 leucocytes respectively. With the exception of 
these extreme cases, the degree of leucocytosis present does not appear to be of 
much prognostic value. 

TABLE XLII.— LEUCOCYTOSIS IN LIVER ABSCESS 





Recovering cases. 


Fatal cases. 


Total. 


11,000 to 16,000 

15,000 to 20,000 

20,000 to 30,000 

Over 30.000 


2 

4 
1 



4 
6 
2 
2 


6 

10 

3 

2 


Total 


7 


14 


21 



Of greater importance than the total count is the proportion of the polynu- 
clears present. In section VI, I have pointed out that the characteristic feature 
of the leucocytosis of amoebic hepatitis is the less marked increase of the polynu- 
clears than is the case in ordinary septic bacterial inflammations. This is equally 
true of both the pre-suppurative and the suppurative stages of the disease. In the 
majority of the cases the polynuclears form from 70 to 80 per cent, of the whole, 
but in chronic liver abscesses they may even be below 70. On the other hand, in 
a few very acute ones, especially when multiple abscess formation or secondary 
bacterial infection is present, they may rise to over 80, but I have only once seen as 
many as 90 per cent. 

In all the cases of tropical liver abscess examined by me in the European 
Hospital some degree of leucocytosis was present. In the more chronic and late 
admissions among native patients I have several times found the total number of 
leucocytes to be less than 10,000, no actual leucocytosis being present even with 
a very large abscess. In these cases, however, there has always been, in my 
experience, a marked degree of anaemia, so that the leuc?ocytes were almost invariably 
relatively increased to a considerable extent as compared with the number of the 
red corpuscles. For example, the first case of the kind I met with showed red 



380 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

corpuscles 2,860,000, white 8,625, ratio of white to red 1-332. The red corpuscles 
were therefore reduced by nearly one half, so that the proportion of white to red 
was double the normal. A similar proportion in a blood containing a normal 
number of red corpuscles would have been 16,000 white, so that a relative leuco- 
cytosis was actually present. I did not recognize this at the time, and thought that 
the count excluded the presence of suppurative hepatitis. On the death of the 
patient not long after, three pints of pus were found in the right lobe of the liver. 
I have several times since found a similar relative leucocytosis in liver abscess cases 
and recognized its significance. 

THE DIAGNOSTIC VALUE OF X-RAYS.— A very useful aid in the diagnosis 
of deep-seated inflammatory conditions of the liver has been placed in our hands by 
the discovery of the X-rays. In the first place, examination with the screen allows of 
the detection of any diminution in the movements of the right side of the diaphragm, 
which is an important early sign of acute hepatitis, especially when the upper surface 
of the Hver is affected. This sign is very commonly present in the early pre-sup- 
purative hepatitis, and is in no way an indication of actual pus formation. The 
right side of the diaphragm may be nearly or quite motionless, while resumption of its 
action is one of the characteristic signs of the subsidence of the liver inflammation. 
When the liver is enlarged, or an abscess is present in its upper part, the right side 
of the diaphragm may be raised above its normal level as well as being fixed. Valuable 
information is also obtainable regarding the spread of the inflammatory trouble to 
the base of the right lung, which will be indicated by a loss of transparency im- 
mediately above the diaphragm. If the shadow is extensive in this position it 
will generally mean a secondary abscess in the lung, but a case has already been 
mentioned in which a sUght shadow was seen there without any abscess developing. 

Of much greater importance is the detection of a definite localised increase in 
the density of the liver shadow, for when well marked it may be an important 
sign of the presence, as weU as an indication of the position, of a liver abscess. In 
the thin left lobe comparatively smaU collections of pus may throw a well defined 
shadow. In the thick right lobe, however, an abscess holding a pint or so of pus 
may fail to be revealed by the X-rays, as occurred in several of the comparatively 
early European series. The shadow is better marked in the well locaHsed chronic 
abscess with thick fibrous waUs. Moreover, in at least one case a dense patch was seen 
in the hver shadow in which an abscess was subsequently proved by a post-mortem 
not to exist, but this is much more exceptional than to find an abscess when no 
darker shadow was detected. In native patients, with advanced disease, the shadow 
cast by a Hver abscess is more frequently quite distinct and is often of aid in precisely 
locating the collection of pus, although in this stage the diagnosis is usually clinic- 
ally evident. On the whole the X-rays do not afford quite as much assistance as 
might have been expected, and some experience is required in drawing rehable 
conclusions from the appearances seen. In particular the absence of any increased 
density of the liver shadow in no way negatives the presence of a collection of pus 
in the fiver. 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



381 



CAUSES OF DEATH IN LIVER ABSCESS.— The following table shows the 
causes of death in a series of fatal Uver abscesses in European subjects, together with 
the period after operation at which it occurred. 



TABLE XLIII. 





1 

First week. 1 1-2 weeks. 


2-4 weeks. 


Over 4 weeks. Total. 


Shock and exhaustion 
Haemorrhage .... 

Dysentery 

Fever, ? septic iafection . 
CompUcations .... 


4 1 

■ 2 i — 

1 — 

1 2 

— 2 


2 
2 


2 

1 


7 
2 

1 
7 
3 


Total 


8 5 

1 


4 


3 


20 



Of the two cases of fatal haemorrhage one occurred on the day of the operation 
and one on the fourth day. Shock and exhaustion were the most frequent causes 
of death during the first week. The later fataUties were chiefly due to fever 
continuing after the abscess had been opened and drained. In several there 
was little or no rise of temperature for a few days after the operation, but it then 
recurred and continued until death. Most of these were most probably due to 
septic infection of the cavity, for it was repeatedly noted that an originally 
sweet discharge had developed a foul putrefactive odour. Another occasional 
cause of fever is the recurrence of acute hepatitis secondary ip unhealed amoebic 
ulcers in the large bowel, but this is preventable by the administration of ipecac- 
uanha as soon after the operation as the patient can stand it. Fever persisting in 
spite of the wound being in a healthy condition has several times been stopped by 
this treatment during the last few years. Bacterial infection should also be prevent- 
able by the methods of sterile evacuation to be described later, which wiU also 
materially diminish the shock and exhaustion incidental to the open operation. 

THE STAY IN HOSPITAL AFTER OPERATION of European patients who 
recovered from liver abscess is shown in the following table. Cases of cure by dis- 
charge of the pus through the lungs are also given. 

Under 1 month. 
After operation ... 3 
Opening through the lung 1 

Of the three cases cured within one month the only one treated by the ordinary 
open operation was a very smaU left lobe abscess containing only one ounce of pus. 
The second was a deeply seated right lobe abscess rapidly cured by my plan of aspir- 
ation and injection of quinine ; the first case so treated. He was convalescent in a 
week, but was kept under observation for two weeks more, and seen again in perfect 
health over a year later. The last of these cases was the first patient treated 
by sterile syphon drainage by means of my flexible sheathed cannula described later. 



-2 months. 
4 


2-3 months. 
9 


3-4 months. 
6 


Over 4 months. 
2 


TotaL 
24 


2 


1 


— 


1 


5 



I 



382 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

He was discharged cured with the wound soundly healed in twenty-four days from 
the operation. Of the four cases cured in from one to two months, three were 
small left lobe abscesses, the fourth a small right lobe abscess treated by resection 
of a rib who left hospital on the fifty-eighth day after operation, so that all the 
right lobe cases treated by the open operation took over eight weeks to heal, while 
almost one-half of them were over three months before discharge from hospital. 
Such long illnesses are a very severe strain on the system, and subsequent long leave 
is almost invariably necessary before return to work. It is to be hoped that by 
improved methods this tedious and exhausting convalescence may be greatly 
shortened and amehorated. 

THE MORTALITY. — This will vary with the class of patient and the stage of the 
disease in which they come under treatment. Thus the death rate is comparatively 
low among Europeans coming early under observation in a fairly good general con- 
dition. In the Calcutta European Hospital the mortality among sixty-four recent 
cases of which I have notes was 53 per cent., leaving 47 per cent, of recoveries. 
Among British troops in India for the fifteen years from 1894 to 1908 the fatahties 
averaged 56 per cent, and showed httle yearly variation. At the Calcutta Medical 
College Hospital Captain J. W. D. Megaw analyzed all the available clinical records 
for ten years up to the end of 1905, amounting to 292 cases, and estimated the 
mortahtyat about 60 per cent. Among 231 cases at the same institution of which I 
have notes, many at a later date than Megaw's, the mortaUty was 60* 1 per cent., thus 
agreeing with his figure. In 1907 I found the mortaUty among all the cases whose 
notes were in the hands of the registrar was as high as 73 per cent, among 52 cases, 
the open operation being in general use. A few patients taken away by their friends 
when in a hopeless condition are included in the deaths, while those leaving uncured, 
but while improving, have been classed as recovered. This high mortaHty among 
the Hver abscess patients of the very experienced surgeons of this institution is 
largely due to many of them coming to hospital in such an advanced stage of the 
disease as to have extremely Uttle chance of surviving the shock and exhaustion 
of the copious discharges following incision of the abscesses, so that little improve- 
ment can be expected in the results from the methods hitherto in general use. 

During the last year better results have been obtained, especially in the formerly 
very fatal deep seated right lobe hver abscesses, by the adoption of my plan of 
repeated aspiration and injection of quinine without drainage, some apparently 
almost hopeless cases having thus been cured. Much further experience will be 
necessary before the exact value of this plan can be estimated, but it promises to 
materially reduce the mortaHty of the disease, if given a trial in all suitable cases 
before resorting to the open operation. 

THE MORTALITY OF DIFFERENT VARIETIES OF LIVER ABSCESS.— 
The figures given above show the mortaUty in a large number of Hver abscess cases 
of aU degrees of acuteness, positions and stages treated by very experienced 
surgeons in a tropical country. The death rate, however, differs greatly according 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



383 



to the position of the abscess and the direction in which it is opened. The 
following table worked out from a series of Medical College Hospital cases illustrates 
this point. * 

TABLE XLIV.— MORTALITY IN DIFFERENT FORMS OF LIVER ABSCESS. 







Opened through 


stbdominal wal 


. 




Opened through chest 
wall. 


Through lungs. 


Left Lobe. 


Right Lobe. Total. 


^M 


1 


1 


1 


1 


o 


o 


aS 

1 


1 






1 


o 


.£3 

i 


o 


33 


4 


12% 


51 


30 


59% 


84 


34 


40-5% 


79^' 


68 


73-40/„ 


13 


6 


46% 



The total mortahty being nearly 60 per cent., it is clear that the small early left lobe 
abscesses have only one-fifth of the average mortality, while taking all the abscesses 
opened through the abdominal wall the death rate is but two- thirds of the total rate, 
and only a Uttle over one-half of that of the large deeply seated abscesses opened 
through the thoracic wall. Abscesses of the right lobe drained by the abdominal 
route have a much higher mortality than those of the left lobe because they commonly 
reach a far larger size before being opened. The higher mortaUty of the trans-thor- 
acic operation is partly due to the greater frequency of secondary purulent pleurisy, 
in these days of early operation before firm adhesions have had time to form. Those 
opening naturally through the lungs have a lower mortaUty than any other form 
except left lobe ones, being far lower in cases not operated on than in those in 
which the abscess is opened, partly due to the former including the less severe cases. 

It is clear from these data that in estimating the results of any particular opera- 
tion or line of treatment, the proportion of the different classes of cases in the series 
must be taken into account. Thus, in the less acute and less frequently multiple 
abscesses seen in patients in Europe, the results will necessarily be better than in a 
series treated in the tropics. Again, the comparatively low mortaUties reported by 
some individual operators may in part depend on a certain amount of selection of 
cases, either conscious or accidental. For example, at the Calcutta Medical College 
Hospital a number of the most hopeless cases are sometimes operated on by the 
Resident Surgeon on their admission as urgent cases, and will thus be excluded from 
the hst of the visiting surgeon : greatly to the advantage of the statistics of the 
latter operator. In these advanced cases, often with evident fluctuation, the mor- 
tality will not depend on the particular hand which thrusts the knife into them, but 
on the well nigh hopeless condition of the patient on admission. For this reason 
the figures of all the cases admitted to a large hospital as given above afford the 
most accurate information regarding the true mortality of the disease in a tropical 
country. 

25 



384 '7} FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

PROGNOSIS 

From the account already given of the great variations in the number, acuteness, 
size and comphcations of amoebic abcess of the Hver it is clear that the prognosis in 
any given case will depend on a number of factors, some of which it may not be 
possible to accurately gauge before operative procedures are undertaken. The 
most important of these are the following. 

THE NUMBER OF ABSCESSES PRESENT will clearly be the most essential 
element in the prognosis. Once the liver has become riddled with rapidly extending 
collections of pus the time to save the patient's hfe will be past. Fortunately these 
cases are rare, and are sometimes accompanied by a hopelessly advanced amoebic 
dysentery. Even if only a small number of locaUsed abscesses are present, the 
chances of successful treatment will be very much less than if there is only a single 
cavity, however large it may be, on account of the great difficulty of finding and 
evacuating each collection. Multiple abscesses of the hver, therefore, are most 
essentially cases in which prevention is much easier than cure, and as the value of 
the ipecacuanha in the pre-suppurative stage becomes generally recognised and acted 
on, this class of hopeless case will become more and more rare. Fortunately, even 
without this preventative method, 70 per cent, of all cases are single abscesses. The 
further remarks will apply to single abscesses alone. 

The effect of the POSITION of a single abscess has been indicated in the preced- 
ing paragraph and is closely related to the size the collection reaches before it can be 
recognized and adequately dealt mth. 

The SIZE of the abscess is also an important factor, especially if they are sub- 
mitted to the open operation, as has for many years past been the generally recog- 
nized method of treatment. In the first place, a large abscess will presumably 
destroy a greater amount of liver substance than a smaller one. This, however, 
appUes rather to very acute and often multiple collections containing large sloughs, 
than to single more chronic abscesses. The latter almost invariably have thick 
fibrous walls completely localising them, and microscopical sections show that close 
beyond this membrane the liver cells are commonly quite healthy. Moreover, a 
large single abscess quickly reaches the sm'face of the organ, and then increases in 
size by distending the thickened capsule and pushing on one side the liver substance 
without further destroying it. If long neglected, as is so often the case in native 
patients, the system becomes much enfeebled by the disease, leaving the patient 
unfit to stand the shock and strain of the exhausting discharge following the open 
operation. Recent experience of repeated aspiration and quinine injection to destroy 
the causative amoeba without drainage has, however, shown that very feeble and 
emaciated patients, with an enormous single abscess containing three to six pints of 
pus, may rapidly improve and completely recover. It is clear, therefore, that the 
largest single amoebic Hver abscesses do not commonly destroy sufficient of the 
secreting substance of the liver to be for this reason necessarily fatal. 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 385 

BACTERIAL INFECTION SECONDARY TO THE OPEN OPERATION— is a far 
more important factor than the mere size in rendering the prognosis unfavom'able. 
The practical impossibihty of maintaining the steriHty of the discharge has akeady 
been shown. The seriousness of such infections, even by organisms of low pathogen- 
icity, has been acknowledged by such experienced surgeons as Sir Havelock Charles 
and Major C. G. Spencer, Professor of Mihtary Medicine at the Royal Army Medical 
College. The last writer has well summed up the question in the following words : 
•' The chief cause of this high mortality, apart from the presence of more than one 
abscess, or extreme debility of the patient before operation, is undoubtedly infection 
of the abscess cavity by pyogenic organisms through the open wound. This is 
extremely difficult to prevent, no matter how much care is taken : the large amount 
of viscid discharge necessitates frequent changes of dressings, air and pus are sucked 
in and out of the cavity by respiratory movements, and it is very difficult to keep 
the skin around the wound aseptic, especially in a hot, moist chmate. The great 
majority of amoebic abscesses are sterile when first opened, and every surgeon with 
Indian experience is famihar with the usual course of fatal cases — the patient does 
well for the first few days after operation, then infection occurs, the temperature 
goes up again, and death from septic poisoning slowly but surely follows." 

If the abscess is a small one the patient may ultimately recover in spite of 
bacterial infection. The process of heahng is, however, much delayed by this 
complication, as is clearly shown by the case related later of an abscess healed up to 
the surface in three days and completely in seven, with but a few drops of serous 
discharge. 

THE PRESENCE OF ACTIVE DYSENTERY is another important factor in the 
prognosis. In the first place it is more hkely that multiple abscesses are present in 
the liver, or that further ones will continue to develop ; and secondly the dysentery 
may increase and prove fatal after the liver comphcation has been successfully dealt 
with, as I have seen. The routine use of ipecacuanha in the after treatment of 
liver abscess will do much to lessen these dangers. 

TREATMENT 

In deaHng with the treatment of liver abscess it will be necessary to first 
describe the methods which have been in general use for many years past, and sub- 
sequently to deal with the modifications introduced by the writer, which have now 
been favourably reported on by several surgeons ; revolutionary as they may appear 
to those to whom an abscess can indicate nothing but the knife. 

THE OPEN OPERATION.— The usually accepted treatment is to locahse, 
freely open, and drain the abscess as soon as possible. Formerly some surgeons 
treated liver abscess by repeated aspirations without opening them. Thus in 1892 
E. Lawrie, I.M.S., recorded 18 cases treated by repeated aspiration of whom 15 were 
cured and the remaining 3 died of dysentery. In 5 more aspiration was followed 
later by opening and all recovered. Of the cases cured by aspiration 8 only required 
one such operation, 3 two aspirations, 3 three and 1 six aspirations. One case 



386 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

after being aspirated 27 times was eventually opened and the patient recovered- 
No harm appears to have been done in any case by the operation, and even when 
opening was necessary afterwards, the patients were often in a better position to 
stand drainage. With the perfecting of aseptic methods, which greatly reduced 
infection of the wounds by the more virulent types of organisms, the plan of aspirating 
alone has been almost entirely abandoned by surgeons on account of its frequent 
failure to rapidly cure cases. It appears to be open to question whether the 
pendulum has not now swung too far the other way, and aspiration has been too 
much neglected. 

EXPLORATORY PUNCTURE TO LOCALISE A LIVER ABSCESS.— It is impor- 
tant to evacuate a liver abscess as early as possible, before it has set up serious 
compHcations by involving neighbouring structures and cavities. When the pre- 
sence of pus in the liver is either clearly evident, or has been rendered exceedingly 
probable by the failure of a course of ipecacuanha to abate an acute hepatitis, 
exploratory puncture should be undertaken without delay to locate the collection, 
everything being prepared for any further proceedings which may be required. A 
general anaesthetic is usually necessary for this purpose, but in debilitated subjects 
with advanced disease Sir Havelock Charles prefers local anaethesia, as he considers 
chloroform to be badly borne in Uver inflammation. A fine cannula should be used 
to lessen as far as possible the danger of haemorrhage. In the absence of any de- 
finite indications of the site of the abscess the same surgeon first explores through 
the lowest thoracic space in the anterior axillary fine, and then a space higher, the 
search being carried out in a systematic manner. The trocar should be inserted to a 
full depth, which according to Mr. CantUe should not exceed three and a quarter 
inches. Aspiration is then appHed, and if the result is negative the cannula is slowly 
withdrawn, the suction being repeated at each step, but not during the actual with- 
drawal. If no pus is obtained, a firm bandage extending below the costal margin is 
applied to support the hver and a dose or two of calcium chloride given to increase 
the coagulabihty of the blood. With these precautions Sir Havelock Charles states 
that he has not been troubled with haemorrhage into the abdomen, although other 
Indian surgeons have not been so fortunate in this respect. 

HAEMORRHAGE AFTER EXPLORATORY PUNCTURE OF THE LIVER.— 
Four such fatalities recorded in the Calcutta post-mortem notes have already been 
referred to, and I know of others both at the Medical College and European hospitals, 
although few surgeons have the courage to report them. A notable exception is a 
valuable paper published in 1898 by Lt. Colonel Hatch, I.M.S., in which he narrates no 
less than six cases occurring in Bombay of this disaster. It is especially noteworthy 
that most of these cases occurred in patients in whom no abscess was found by the ex- 
ploratory operation, as has been proved by the absence of suppuration in the liver 
post-mortem. It appears, then, that there is the greatest danger of fatal haemor- 
rhage occurring as a result of such operations performed in the acute hepatic conges- 
tion of the pre-suppurative stage of the disease. These may be entirely prevented by 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 387 

never doing an exploratory puncture of the liver in any case in which liver abscess 
is merely suspected, without first treating the patient with a course of ipecacuanha, 
as the rapid subsidence of the disease, if no abscess has formed, will save the necessity 
of carrying out the operation. 

Some surgeons are so greatly impressed with the danger of puncturing the 
liver in these cases, that they advocate opening the abdominal cavity in every doubt- 
ful case, and locating the position of the abscess by palpating the organ before 
aspirating or incising it. A. Powell advised this procedure in 1898 and Wilson 
and Lane came to a similar conclusion in 1905. In early acute cases with absence 
of adhesions this plan is worthy of consideration, especially as it has the great 
advantage of enabhng more than one localised collection to be detected and dealt 
with. In the more chronic fibrous walled abscesses there is very little danger of 
serious haemorrhage, as adhesions will limit the practicability of the suggestion. 

INCISION THROUGH THE ABDOMINAL WALL.— If pus is found with the 
aspirator the next step is to open the abscess at once. The incision wiU necessarily 
vary with the position of the collection. The simplest cases are those in which 
it is situated in the epigastrium or right hypochondrium, and can readily be reached 
by cutting through the anterior abdominal wall, either in the middle line, the Hnea 
semilunaris, or through the right rectus muscle. If firm adhesions shutting off the 
peritoneal cavity are present nothing can be simpler than to open and drain a fiver 
abscess in this position. In early cases adhesions may be absent or insufiicient, and 
the peritoneal sac has to be opened in order to reach the liver. The capsule of the 
organ must then be carefully sutured to the abdominal wall before the abscess is 
opened, so as to prevent any pus entering the cavity. If difficulty arises owing to 
the softness of the organ, and there is the least doubt whether the peritoneal sac is 
completely and permanently shut off, it will be far safer to plug the wound with 
gauze and wait for two or three days, to allow of the formation of firm adhesions, 
before incising the abscess. The tension may be relieved, if thought necessary, by 
aspirating some of the pus through a fine cannula. When adhesions are present, but 
not very firm, the edges of the opening into the abscess should be sutured to the 
abdominal wall in the upper part of the incision, to give a stronger hold and 
prevent retraction of the liver occurring when the cavity in its substance is 
emptied. 

INCISION THROUGH THE THORACIC WALL.— Here again the operation 
is simple if the abscess has approached so close to the surface as to have obhterated 
the pleural sac over it by adhesions. It is nearly always advisable to resect two 
or three inches of a rib to allow of very free drainage and then to incise the abscess 
cavity and insert a large rubber drainage tulSe. If the pleura is opened at the opera- 
tion the two layers should be carefully sutured at the upper edge of the wound to 
completely shut off the serous sac from the site of the incision through the diaphragm. 
This muscle may also be united to the thoracic wall, if thought necessary, to prevent 
it faUing away as the contents of the abscess escape, which would tend to separate 



388 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

the wounds through the chest wall and the diaphragm from each other and make 
the drainage less simple and free. It would appear to be wise to resect as low a 
rib as possible to allow for any fall in the height of the diaphragm following on the 
reduction in the size of the liver due to emptying the abscess. In very advanced 
cases necrosis of one or more ribs may be found and necessitate removal of 
the affected portions. After some of the pus has escaped a large drainage tube is 
inserted to the bottom of the wound, and a cross piece, or other device, adopted to 
prevent it shpping in. When the abscess is deep seated the aspirating needle should 
be left in as a guide in opening the abscess. 

MANSON'S METHOD. — Another method of draining a Hver abscess is that 
devised by Sir Patrick Manson. He uses a trocar three-eighths of an inch in diameter, 
through which he passes a rubber drainage tube stretched by a long stiletto, the 
extremities of which are placed in buttons tied into the ends of the tubing. On 
withdrawing the cannula and the stiletto the rubber tube contracts and fits tightly 
into the puncture wound in the liver and serves to bridge over any passage through 
a serous sac, preventing pus from entering it and also lessening haemorrhage. 
The end of the tube previously left in the abscess has several large holes cut in its 
sides for drainage, while the protuding end with the other button is cut off to let 
the pus escape by it. An ordinary smaU aspirating cannula is used to locate the 
abscess when necessary before inserting the large special one. This method does not 
appear to have been given the trial it deserves by surgeons in India. By combining 
it with siphon drainage (a long rubber tube joined on by a glass piece being carried 
into a vessel on the floor containing an antiseptic) steriHty of the contents should 
be obtainable in a manner which fs not usually possible with the open operation. 
Mr. CantUe by this means has had 82 per cent, of recoveries in 100 cases : a remark- 
ably good result even when allowance is made for many of his cases having been of 
the single and less acute varieties most commonly seen in patients invahded to 
England. Daily washing out with sterile quinine solution might with advantage 
be combined with this method. 

THE AUTHOR'S FLEXIBLE SHEATHED TROCAR FOR STERILE SIPHON 
DRAINAGE AND QUININE IRRIGATION.— In order to carry out sterile drainage 
in those Uver abscesses in which the method of aspiration and quinine injection, to 
be described presently, fails to effect a cure, I have devised a trocar with a flexible 
sheath, which can be safely left in the abscess as a drainage tube. It is to be con- 
nected with a long rubber tube, carried into a vessel containing an antiseptic lotion 
imder the bed of the patient. This instrument has been made for me by Messrs. 
Down Bros., to whom I am also indebted for the accompan5dng illustration. It 
consists of an aspiration trocar and cannula, the sheath of which is made of flexible 
silver-nickel tubing, so that it can safely be left in as a drainage tube, which will 
accommodate itself to the altered relationship of the parts traversed due to emptying 
the abscess cavity. The break in the cannula within the handle should be joined 
up by a piece of pressure rubber tubing, through which the trocar passes. Thi 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



389 



enables it to be clamped on withdrawing the trocar, so that no air is admitted in 
the process of connecting up the cannula with the aspirator or injection syringe. 
A plug is provided to fit the proximal end of the cannula for connexion with the 
.tubing leading to the aspiration bottle. A silver Y tube is also supplied to facihtate 




Fig. 8. — The author's flexible sheathed Trocar for Siphonage of Liver Abscesses and Irrigation with 

Quinine. 

the daily aspiration and quinine injection. This tube can also be reversed so 
as to allow a current of lotion to be run down one Umb past the inner opening of 
the other limb connected with the drainage cannula and into a vessel under the bed, 
in order to exert a continuous suction action on the contents of the abscess cavity 
and thus keep it more completely empty. For irrigation purposes the single limb 
is connected by pressure tubing with the end of the cannula, and one of the branches 
by similar tubing with the aspirator. The other Umb allows of sterile quinine 
solutions being injected by means of a glass syringe after aspiration without having 
to disconnect the tubes, this injection Umb being clamped or closed with the fingers 
during aspiration. In passing the trocar through the cannula before use the end 
of the cannula should be supported by the fingers to prevent the sheath being un- 
duly stretched. The inside of the tube is smooth, so that it can be readily steriUzed 
after use. Experience has shown that the break in the tube in the handle is not 
absolutely necessary and Messrs. Down Bros, have also made for me a simpUfied 
pattern in which the proximal end of the cannula only projects for an inch beyond the 
flange which Umits the depth to which it is inserted. A further sUght improve- 
ment is the provision of a slit in the flange on either side, through which a piece of 
tape is passed and tied round the body or the ends fixed with strapping to keep the 
cannula from sUpping out. 

The whole principle of the instrument is to enable a Uver abscess cavity to be 
drained asepticaUy and daily washed out with sterile quinine solution to kiU the 
causative amoebae. The strictest antiseptic precautions are therefore essential, 
including boiUng the quinine solution and the syringe used for its injection. When 
the abscess is deeply seated it must first be located by aspiration with an ordinary 



390 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



fine cannula, but without removing much of the pus. The flexible sheathed trocar 
is then inserted into the cavity, alongside the smaller one if thought advisable, 
and the latter withdrawn. On withdrawing the large trocar from its sheath the 
tube is connected with the aspirator and the cavity emptied as far as possible. 
From two to four ounces of a sterile solution of bi-hydrochlorate of quinine (ten grains 
to the ounce), is now injected into the cavity, and retained for five to ten minutes. 
The end of the cannula, is then connected to a long large-cahbre drainage tube, the 
distal end of which is carried into a bottle containing one in forty carbolic acid or 
other antiseptic. By placing the bottle beneath the patient's bed siphon action will 
be set up and will keep the cavity drained. A small dressing is now appUed over the 
puncture wound, through which the tubing projects, the cannula being prevented 
from shpping out by strapping or tape. 

THE AFTER TREATMENT is very simple as there are no copious discharges 
into the dressings which need not be touched for some days. Each morning the 
rubber tubing is detached, the aspirator connected up to remove any thick pus 
which may not have drained, and the cavity irrigated with sterile quinine solution. 

CASE TREATED WITH THE FLEXIBLE SHEATHED TROCAR.— The fol- 
lowing notes of the first case treated with this instrument will sufficiently illustrate 
its advantages. A man aged twenty-four was admitted to the Calcutta European 
Hospital under Dr. J. G. Murray, I.M.S., to whom I am greatly indebted for trying 
my method. He had suffered from dysentery recently and presented well marked 
signs of a hver abscess beneath the right lower thoracic wall. Dr. Murray aspirated 
ten ounces of pus through the ninth costal space in the mid-axillary hne, only 
partially emptying the cavity. The flexible sheathed trocar was inserted by the 




Chart 83. — Temperature Chart of the first case in which the author's method of Siphonage and Quinine 

Irrigation was employed. 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 391 

Bide of the other, and syphon drainage estat)li8hed as above described. I found the 
pus to be sterile. On the first day after the operation a few ounces of pus had 
drained into the bottle and a little thick material was withdrawn with the aspirator. 
An attempt was made to run in quinine solution through a funnel, but little entered. 
On the second day the discharge was less and only a few drachms of pus could be 
aspirated. Quinine solution was injected through a sterile glass syringe. On the third 
day only a little shreddy pus had drained and nothing more than a few drops could be 
removed by aspiration. The cavity had already contracted so much that it would ad- 
mit only half an ounce of quinine solution. Progress continued in much the same way 
and within a week no pus could be got by the aspirator, and drainage was stopped 
at night, the tube being clamped. The cannula was kept in for a week more as a 
matter of precaution, although so long a period was probably unnecessary. Three 
days after its removal the four inch sinus left by it had filled right up to the 
surface with only a very few drops of serous discharge on the dressing, and in a 
week from the tube being taken out, the wound was soundly healed and the patient 
left hospital. He was seen from time to time for upwards of a year, at the 
end of which his hver appeared to be quite normal under the X-rays. The accom- 
panying temperature chart illustrates his progress after the operation. It is note- 
worthy that his stay in hospital after the operation was less than half the shortest 
time of that of any liver abscess case in which the open operation through the thor- 
acic wall had been performed in the hospital during the last nine years. 

The above instance is sufficient to prove that the instrument fulfils the objects 
for which it was devised, and will allow of sterile drainage and quinine irrigation 
of liver abscesses, and thereby greatly simpHfy and shorten the duration of the 
after treatment in these cases. During the last year the still simpler method of 
aspiration and quinine injection, without drainage, has proved so effective in a 
number of cases as to limit the role of sterile drainage, but in cases in which 
repeated aspirations fail to complete the cure, the above plan is worthy of trial. 

THE TREATMENT OF LIVER ABSCESS OPENING THROUGH THE LUNG.— 
These cases often present considerable difficulty in deciding whether operative 
procedures are advisable or not. The majority make a good recovery without the 
necessity for surgical interference, while operative measures are often of considerable 
difficulty owing to the primary abscess in the hver rapidly contracting to a small 
size, and being then very troublesome to locate. In my European series out of five 
cases operated on three recovered and two died, while of seven cases not operated 
on five recovered and two died. [One of the last was a man who refused any operation, 
even before the lung was involved, and the other died of exhaustion a few days 
after the abscess burst through the lung. In my native series out of eight cases 
operated on six died, while five not submitted to surgical measures all recovered. 
The latter include the less serious and the former the worst cases, so the two 
classes are not strictly comparable. Nevertheless, it is clear that operative procedures 
in this complication are of a very serious nature and are to be avoided whenever pos- 
sible. Liver abscesses opening into the bowel are also fairly often spontaneously 



^92 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

recovered from, so that nature's methods of evacuating amoebic abscesses of the 
Uver are frequently entirely successful in curing the patient, while they are far 
less often accompanied by the extension of serious inflammation to the plem-a or 
peritoneum, or septic infection of the abscess cavity, than are the surgeon's attempts 
in the same direction. 

If the discharge expectorated is becoming less, and there is little or no fever 
while the patient is not losing weight, it is better to watch the progress of the case. 
On the other hand if the patient is clearly losing ground, it is evident that his 
powers are unequal to the strain being put upon them, and the abscess in the base 
of the lung and upper part of the liver must be drained through the chest wall 
without delay. Adhesions of tlje pleura are pretty certain to be present, thus after 
locating the pus with the aspirating needle this can be used as a guide while cutting 
down on it. When it appears clear from the first that the patient's strength will not 
suffice to aUow him to cough up a Uver abscess it should be opened as soon as possible 
after pus appears in the sputum, and before its cavity has contracted and become 
difiicult to find. In one old exhausted European in which this was done without 
delay, the communication with the lung and expectoration of pus ceased at once 
on the abscess being freely drained. He made a good recovery, although his illness 
was prolonged by a continuation of fever when the wound was in a healthy con- 
dition, but the temperature yielded to ipecacuanha, thus being clearly due to a recur- 
rence of hepatitis independently of the abscess. 

OTHER COMPLICATIONS. — Now that tropical abscess of the liver is usually 
recognized and treated surgically at a comparatively early stage, other complications 
are not very usually met with. Rupture into any part of the gastro-intestinal 
tract, with vomiting or the passage of pus by the bowel, is not unfrequently re- 
covered from spontaneously, and does not require any operative measures. When, 
however, a liver abscess opens into the pleura or pericardium these sacs should be 
drained mthout delay. The same remark applies to the peritoneum, although 
here the nature of the disease is less likely to be recognized in time for success to be 
probable. 

AFTER-TREATMENT OF THE OPEN OPERATION.— Very extensive dressings 
are required to absorb the copious discharges of the first few days. If they are 
soaked through, it is imperative to change them completely as soon as possible. 
Merely covering them over with further absorbent material is equivalent to shutting 
the stable door after the horse has escaped, for the soaked dressings wiU already have 
been infected from the air, and the putrefactive process wiU rapidly spread through 
the deeper layers, which are saturated with serum-like culture fluid, to reach the 
wound. In such cases an originally sterile and sweet discharge may rapidly become 
extremely foul and swarm with cocci and bacteria. The practical impossibiUty of 
keeping the discharge of a hver abscess treated by the open operation, completely 
sterile has already been dwelt on, but with great care the bacterial infection may 
be Hmited to a comparatively slight and mild infection, which may only result 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 393 

in a prolongation of the period of healing, unless the abscess is a large one, when 
fatal exhaustion may ensue. Antiseptic lotions are often used to wash out the cavi- 
ties at the daily dressings. If the pus is originally sterile,' and remains so, there 
is no necessity for their use, while if the wound is infected it is very doubtful if 
an occasional irrigation will Inaterially lessen the contamination. Those I have 
seen used do not appear to kill the amoebae, as I have frequently readily found 
them in the pus taken at the dressings, even when there was marked bacterial 
infection. Of much greater value is the plan of washing out with steriUzed quinine 
solutions, which in a strength of 1 per cent, will readily kill the protozoal parasites 
and rapidly diminish the discharge, if no serious bacterial infection has taken place. 
This plan has been used in the Madras General Hospital and in Calcutta with good 
results. If the abscess is not a very large one and can be kept sterile, the discharge 
will dry up to a great extent in a very few days under quinine irrigation. 

IPECACUANHA IN THE AFTER-TREATMENT OF LIVER ABSCESS.— One 
of the greatest trials of the surgeon in the tropics is to have a patient domg well 
after operation for Uver abscess, whose convalescence is interrupted by a recurrence 
of the fever, in spite of the wound being in a healthy state. Another abscess is 
probably forming in the liver, which will almost certainly prove fatal to the patient 
in his weak condition. Many a case has thus been lost in the past, but for- 
tunately we are now in a position to prevent the recurrence of amoebic abscesses, 
and we should also, in these days of aseptic surgery, be largely free from the bugbear 
of secondary septic abscesses. The method of cutting short an acute hepatitis in the 
pre-suppurative stage apphes equally well to the prevention of all further abscess for- 
mation after the first has been surgically treated. The fact that the disease is always 
secondary to amoebic dysentery, very often in a latent condition, clearly in- 
dicates that the cure of this exciting cause should not be neglected, as it generally 
has been in recent years. As soon as the patient is in a position to stand it, a course 
of ipecacuanha should be given in the after-treatment of every amoebic Uver abscess. 
If given in one of the ways described under the pre-suppurative stage of the disease 
it will cause very little trouble to the patient. For some time past this has 
been the routine treatment in the Calcutta hospitals and I attribute not a 
little of the recent improvement in the results to this simple measure. One European 
patient had been operated on four times for liver abscess in as many months, a large 
fresh one being opened at the last. He was still suffering from high fever and severe 
pain and steadily losing ground, and although a powerful man he had nearly given 
up hope of recovery. He was now put on ipecacuanha and the wounds washed 
out with quinine solution. The next day he was free from pain and soon after the 
fever subsided, the discharge was much less, and he made a good recovery, although 
it took some weeks for the extensive incisions to heal. In another case reported 
to me by Captain Foster Reany, I.M.S.,a sepoy developed fever when an opened 
liver abscess had nearly healed ; the sinus was dilated up, but no collection of pus 
was found, and the temperature continued to rise higher. Just then he read my 
advocacy of ipecacuanha in amoebic hepatitis, so he at once put the patient on the 



394 



FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 



drug. The fever declined rapidly and the patient made a good recovery. A 
recurrence of the disease had been prevented by this timely treatment. Such 
cases speak for themselves. 

TREATMENT BY ASPIRATION AND INJECTION OF QUININE WITHOUT DRAINAGE 

There is no difference of opinion about the necessity of opening and draining 
as soon as possible any collection of pus containing the ordinary pyogenic bacteria. 
This treatment was, however, found to be sometimes disastrous when applied to 
cold abscesses, now known to be caused by the tubercle bacillus, for septic organisms 
were liable sooner or later to gain access to the large cavity, and the last state of 
the patient was worse than the first. The discovery of a protozoal parasite in 
the pus of some abscesses of the liver, and the knowledge that pyogenic bacteria and 
cocci were frequently absent altogether from them, does not appear to have led to any 
change of principle in the treatment of these purulent collections. This is probably 
largely due to the earlier workers only occasionally having found the amoeba, so that 
for a considerable time it was not looked on by all observers as the causative agent of 
the disease. When, by the methods already described, I was able to show that 
the amoeba is constantly present in the walls of active tropical liver abscesses, 
and that 70 to 80 per cent, of them are otherwise quite sterile, I naturally set to 
work to find some non-poisonous agent which had the power of destroying this 
protozoon in the thick pus of a liver abscess. In September 1902 I recorded that 
1 in 500 solution of quinine (either a soluble salt or quinine sulphate dissolved in 
very weak acid) would readily destroy amoebae in the wall of such an absce&s in 
vitro. I therefore suggested the treatment of sterile liver abscesses by withdraw- 
ing as much pus as possible with an aspirator, and injecting through the cannula a 
sterile solution of 30 grains of quinine in two to four ounces of water the cannula 
being then removed and no drainage attempted. Owing to unexpected difficulties 
in getting surgeons to adopt this simple method, it was not until four years later 
that I was able to report the results of its trial. I was frequently told that it was 
an " unsurgical procedure." Looking at it purely from the patient's point of view, 
I could never understand how that was a valid objection to its being tried for 
it was obviously quite harmless, moreover there was good reason to believe it might 
save him from a much more serious surgical procedure which the sufferer doubtless 
had no great hankering after. In 1906 Roger P. Wilson, I.M.S., carried out my 
suggestion in two cases of deep seated right lobe liver abscess with the most 
striking success, and since then it has been favourably reported on by several 
surgeons who have used it. In January 1909 Professor C. G. Spencer, of the Royal 
Army Medical College, recorded three successful cases, two of which were cured 
by a single injection of 15 to 20 grains of quinine hydrobromate. The third was 
a greatly emaciated subject from whom 50 ounces of pus were removed at the first 
aspiration, and 40 grains of quinine injected, which was followed by some collapse 
and deafness of short duration. A fortnight later 53 ounces of pus were evacua- 
ted and 20 grains of quinine injected, and after another week 40 ounces of pus were 
removed and the injection of 20 grains of quinine repeated. From that time he 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 



395 



steadily recovered and put on several stone in weight. As a result of his experience 
Major Spencer advises that this method should be first tried in every case, as even 
when unsuccessful it gives temporary relief and may place the patient in a better 
position to stand the open operation. During 1909 a number of liver abscesses 
have been cured by this method by Major O'Kinealy and Major C. R. Stevens, I.M.S., 
at the Calcutta Medical CoUege Hospital. The following table shows all the cases 
I have been able to watch in the Calcutta hospitals during the last few years. 

TABLE XL v.— CASES OF LIVER ABSCESS TREATED BY ASPIRATION AND 
QUININE INJECTION IN CALCUTTA. 





Cured. 


Died of 

other 
Diseases. 


Died of 

Liver 

Abscess. 


Aspiration and quinine 
injection only 


/'Cured 

Liver abscess cured, died later of 

sentery .... 
Liver abscess cured, died later of 

monia .... 
iDied of liver abscess 


dy- 
pneu- 


16 


1 

1 


3 


Total 
Ditto and opened later 

Grand Total 
Abscess evacua 
Ditto 




16 
3 


2 


3 


Cured 

Died 




3 


19 


2 


6 


ted through the thoracic wall 24 
ditto abdominal wall 3 


• 





Out of the 18 eases treated by aspiration and quinine injections only 16 were 
completely cure'd, two were cured of the liver abscess but died of other diseases 
later, and 3 died of the liver abscess. As all but three of these cases were evacuated 
through the chest wall, which class when treated by the open operation has a mor- 
tality among native patients (who formed a large proportion of the whole) of over 
70 per cent., these are very encouraging results, which are enhanced when we con- 
sider the nature of the three cases it failed to save. One was admitted in a very 
bad condition, in whom only very temporary reUef was possible. From another 
no less than 112 oz. of pus were aspirated at the first operation, when he was in 
an extremely critical state ; he rallied however and a week later 20 oz. were removed, 
while after another seven days only 10 oz. could be removed ; he picked up consider- 
ably and was able to walk about, but evidently attempted too much as he died un- 
expectedly of heart failure when there seemed a good chance of his recovery. The 
third was a very acute case with destruction of most of the right lobe of the liver, 
the cavity containing very large sloughs which prevented complete evacuation. Here 
the open operation would have enabled more complete emptying of the abscess, but 



396 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

the patient was in a hopeless condition with extreme jaundice due to the neck of 
the gall bladder being completely dissected out by the suppuration, so recovery 
was scarcely possible. In none of these cases, therefore, was there any probability 
that the open operation would have saved the patient. Of the two cases dying of 
other diseases after cure of the liver abscess, one succumbed to dysentery nearly three 
months after his abscess had dried up. The other died of lobar pneumonia of the 
left apex quite unconnected with the Uver trouble after the abscess had ceased to 
form pus. He had been admitted in an extremely debilitated condition with a huge 
liver abscess, the treatment of which by the open operation was recognized to be 
practically hopeless. No less than 86 oz. of pus were removed by aspiration and 
1 5 grains of quinine bi-hydrochlorate injected into the cavity. He improved slowly 
and nine days later a second aspiration only withdrew 18 oz. of pus, while seven 
days later only 10 oz. were obtained, quinine being injected each time. At 
a fourth aspiration eight days after only 5 oz. of thin pus free from bile was removed, 
so no quinine was introduced. He had picked up considerably by this time, but 
shortly after he was attacked by pneumonia and quickly died. At the autopsy 
the cavity in the liver, which had held over four pints of pus just four weeks earlier, 
had contracted down so as to contain but 2| oz. of clear bile with no pus. Its 
waUs were formed of a very thick layer of fibrous tissue, its inner surface being quite 
smooth and free from amoebae, while the contents were sterile on culture, as they 
had been at each operation. He had been given a course of ipecacuanha while in 
hospital, and in the caecum some recent scars, together with a few sht-hke depressions 
of almost healed ulcers, were found. Left pneumococcal apical pneumonia "^as 
present, and but for this accidental complication there can be no doubt he would 
have recovered, for the Uver substance beyond the encysted abscess was quite 
healthy. This case affords striking evidence of the value of the new method of 
treatment, even in very large chronic abscesses in debilitated subjects, in whom the 
open operation would be almost inevitably fatal. Out of 21 cases treated through- 
out by aspiration and quinine injections only three died of Uver abscess, or 14 per 
cent., although aU but two belonged to the deep seated right lobe class, the 
mortaUty of which by the open operation is over 70 per cent. If the cases in which 
the abscess was opened, subsequently to the use of aspirations and quinine injections, 
be added the mortaUty rises to 22 per cent., but some of these were early cases only 
aspirated once, and might very possibly have done better by a repetition of the 
process. 

The most remarkable case was a patient of Major O'Kinealy's in which no less 
than six pints (120 oz.) of sterile pus were aspirated from a single huge abscess in his 
Uver on the day of his admission. Before the operation the liver dullness extended 
from the second right rib to a Uttle below the navel, and the history of his illness 
was of over one year's duration. He was in an extremely weak and emaciated con- 
dition, and was kept up by strychnine injections. Five days later 36 oz. 
of pus were aspirated and 40 grains of the bi-hydrochlorate of quinine injected. 
He improved steadily from that time, the Uver dullness subsided until it only 
extended from the fourth rib to just below the costal margin, and the diaphragm 



TROPICAL LIVER ABSCESS 397 

was seen by the X-rays to be moving well. He put on 18^ lbs. in five weeks and 
left hospital quite recovered. Such a case clearly proves that the most advanced 
liver abscesses are amenable to this simple plan of treatment, so I venture to 
think the patient should always be given the benefit of its trial before the open 
operation is resorted to. 

In carrying out this plan of treatment the following points require attention. 
The skin at the seat of puncture must be most thoroughly steriUzed to prevent any 
bacteria being carried into the cavity. If the presence and position of the abscess 
are accurately known a fuU sized aspiration trocar should be used to allow as much 
as possible of the thick pus being withdrawn through it. For the same reason it is 
also an advantage to use a T tube of large caHbre fitting into the exhausted bottle. 
Messrs. Down Bros, have made a suitable one forme. The cavity is emptied as far 
as possible, some of the first pus being run directly into a sterile test tube for bac- 
teriological examination. A previously boiled solution of the very soluble bi- 
hydrochlorate of quinine, of a strength of 10 grains in 1 oz. of water, is now 
injected into the abscess cavity through the cannula by means of a sterile syringe, and 
the cannula is then withdrawn and collodion appUed externally. If only a few 
ounces of pus are obtained it will be sufficient to inject 2 oz. of the quinine 
solution, but if a pint or more is present then 4 oz containing 40 grains of 
quinine should be used, so as to saturate the whole wall. In some cases the tempera- 
ture falls finally, aU the symptoms disappear and weight is rapidly gained after a 
single injection, as happened in eight cases. More frequently the effect is only tem- 
porary, and it is then advisable to repeat the httle operation after about a week, 
when less pus is commonly obtained, A third injection is not rarely required, but 
in large abscesses even more, perhaps even four or five, may be required. I have 
noticed that if an originally present leucocytosis completely disappears, httle or no 
pus is usually obtained at a second aspiration, and uninterrupted convalescence 
ensues. The continued presence of even a slight leucocytosis is generally an 
indication for repeating the aspiration. In the common fibrous-walled single 
abscess no cinchonism results, even from the injection of as much as sixty grains of 
quinine, but in more acute ones the drug may be absorbed to some extent into the 
circulation. 

The pus removed at each aspiration has been examined both microscopically 
and by culture, and it has been proved that primarily sterile abscesses almost invari- 
ably remain so throughout. The pus should be examined as soon as possible after 
removal, for if kept for twenty-hour hours it commonly shows bacteria on culture, 
due to rapid multiplication of organisms which have entered from the air during 
its collection. For this reason when no bacteria are found microscopically the 
occurrence of a very few isolated colonies on culture indicates only an accidental 
contamination and not an infection of the abscess. Several such cases have done 
perfectly without any drainage being necessary. One case in wiiich bacterial infec- 
tion was found at the third and fourth aspirations recovered without drainage. 
If numerous bacteria are found both microscopically and on culture the abscess is 
clearly infected, and drainage will be as a rule necessary, as quinine only kills 



398 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

amoebae and not the bacilli and cocci. Such cases are fortunately quite exceptional, 
they usually show thin greenish-yellow pus, sometimes with gas formation, instead of 
the typical thick reddish pus of an uncontaminated amoebic abscess. Occasionally a 
thin watery fluid may first escape from a purely amoebic case, followed later by 
thicker material. In very acute large abscesses, with much Hver destruction, the 
quinine injections may sometimes fail. Unfortunately these cases also do badly 
with the open operation, so that even here the aspiration method has the advantage 
of being less exhausting, and may possibly afford time for the patient to recover 
sufficient strength to stand open drainage of the cavity, with all possible pre- 
cautions against infection. 

Another great advantage of this method is that it is more Ukely to be successful 
if more than one locahsed abscess is present than the open operation, for any con- 
tinuation of the symptoms after one abscess has been dealt with will lead to further 
exploration, which may very possibly hit off a second collection of pus. Much 
further experience is necessary before the exact limitations of this treatment can be 
laid down, but it is clearly worthy of an extended trial in aU cases in which there is 
no definite contra-indication to its adoption. 



EPIDEMIC DROPSY 

EXTENSIVE OUTBREAK IN LOWER BENGAL AND ASSAM, 1907-09.— During 
1907 epidemic dropsy reappeared in a number of places in Lower Bengal and Assam, 
" and showed a very remarkable tendency to attack the very same places as had 
suffered severely in the first known outbreak in 1877-79. As early as 1905 
no less than 157 cases of dropsy had occurred in the Sylhet jail, in the Surma valley 
of Assam, which were returned as beri-beri, although the subsequent observations 
of Steen and Delaney showed that they were undoubtedly epidemic dropsy. Scat- 
tered cases continued to occur in this institution up to the end of 1907. In the rainy 
season of 1907 several outbreaks took place in widely separated places. The disease 
appeared in the ComiUa jail in the Tipperah district of Eastern Bengal on June 15, 
and lasted up to August 30, twenty three cases occurring. Throughout the rains 
the disease was widely prevalent among the DarjeeUng tea-garden cooUes from the 
foot of the hills up to an elevation of 5,000 feet, but not at the higher elevations, 
but it had become much less prevalent by December. An epidemic occurred in the 
AUpore reformatory school in Calcutta lasting from September 5 to November 8, 
while the Mymensing jail in Eastern Bengal was attacked in the last two months 
of this year. A large number of cases were also seen in Calcutta, while Umited out- 
breaks were reported from more distant places, Cawnpore in the United Provinces 
having some severe and fatal cases, three members of one family dying of the disease, 
and two more coming for treatment to Calcutta with serious attacks. ShiUong, the 
hill station of Assam, at an elevation of 5,000 feet, was also attacked in 1907, about 
100 cases having been seen by one practitioner there, and at the same time a short but 
extensive epidemic broke out in the Dacca lunatic asylum in March 1908, these last 
two places having also suffered in the last epidemic. Altogether the present out- 
break, which recurred in Calcutta in 1909 in the rains, decUning once more in the 
cold weather, appears to have been even more widespread than the original one, 
and f ortimately a number of careful descriptions of the disease, and the conditions 
under which it occurred, have been recorded, which have added considerably to 
our knowledge of the subject without, however, having completely solved the 
difficult problem of its etiology, 

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM.— In the majority of cases there are no symptoms 
referable to the lungs, but in the more severe types dyspnoea is a marked and 
serious symptom. The patient's respiration is deep and laboured, it is worse at 
night and prevents him from sleeping soundly. Impaired respiratory sounds indi- 
cate oedema of the lungs, which is the common cause of death in fatal cases, the 
orthopnoea increasing and after days of suffering leading to exhaustion of the vital 
powers. This form of death in epidemic dropsy is very different from the sudden 
heart failure seen in beri-beri, it occurs often without any warning and in patients 
who appear to be doing well. 



400 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. — In view of the superficial resemblance of individual 
cases of epidemic dropsy to the wet form of beri-beri, the occurrence of symptoms 
referable to the nervous system are of considerable importance, and have been care- 
fully investigated during the 1907-08 outbreaks. The single fact that neither 
paralysis nor anaesthesia was found in the 1877-79 outbreaks in Mauritius and 
India, and that in the numerous recently recorded epidemics no residual paralyses 
or typical cases of the dry form of beri-beri have occurred, although these form the 
very great majority of true beri-beri cases seen in Chinamen in Calcutta, affords very 
strong evidence of the two diseases being entirely distinct. This is confirmed by a 
close examination of the evidence regarding other nervous symptoms, especially the 
presence or absence of the knee jerks. It is well known that in beri-beri they are 
very rapidly and completely lost, being absent in from 95 to 100 per cent, of the cases. 
Colonel G. F. A. Harris, I.M.S., with many years' experience as physician to the Cal- 
cutta Medical College Hospital, records that among from 100 to 150 beri-beri cases, 
about 90 per cent, of whom were in Chinamen, there was absolute loss of knee jerks 
from the first in all except one case, and in that exception it was lost the next day. In 
epidemic dropsy, on the other hand, he had found the knee jerks increased. Surgeon- 
General C. P. Lukis also never found the jerks lost in epidemic dropsy, but on the 
contrary they were frequently exaggerated in early cases. T. H. Delaney carefully 
investigated the disease in Assam, having previously had a large experience of beri- 
beri in China, and his observations confirmed entirely the previous experience of G. M. 
Giles, Dodds Price, A. Bentley and the author, that beri-beri has never been found in 
Assam, although anchylostomiasis, epidemic dropsy, and other diseases have fre- 
quently been confused with it. Delaney found the knee jerks to be lost or diminished 
in only 3 per cent, of epidemic dropsy, while in 750 healthy prisoners he also failed to 
elicit any reaction in 4 per cent. The difficulty of obtaining it in uneducated 
labouring classes at a single examination doubtless explains much of the greater 
frequency in which Munro found the knee jerk to be absent or diminished among 
tea-garden coolies with epidemic dropsy, although in nothing approaching the 
constancy of this symptom in beri-beri. In Dacca again Colonel Neil Campbell, 
I.M.S. , found the knee jerk to be absent or not elicited in only three out of eighty- 
three cases tested, being thus in agreement with all who have been able to watch cases 
day by day in hospitals, that epidemic dropsy very rarely if ever produces total loss of 
this reflex, as is almost invariably the case in beri-beri. Superficial tenderness of the 
skin or oedematous subcutaneous tissues may occur, but not the deep muscular pain 
on pressing on the calves of the legs of beri-beri. A certain amount of anaesthesia, 
such as might well be produced by serous effusion into the skin, has been occa- 
sionally noted. The complete absence of the residual paralyses, so constantly met 
with in outbreaks of beri-beri, has already been mentioned, and completes the evi- 
dence that there is no true peripheral neuritis in epidemic dropsy, thus clearly 
differentiating it from beri-beri apart from the pathognomonic fever and anaemia 
of the former disease, which do not form a part of the clinical picture of beri-beri. 

THE BLOOD CHANGES. — The constant occurrence of a greater or less degree 



EPIDEMIC DROPSY 



401 



of anaemia was pointed out in the original Mauritius outbreak by Lovell, while the 
blood changes have been further worked out during the recent Indian epidemics. 
The following table shows the blood counts obtained by me in eight consecutive 
cases in Calcutta, together with the average results obtained by Neil Campbell 
at an early stage, during the course of the disease and in convalescence respectively. 
Counts by two different observers in a series of cases of beri-beri are added for com- 
parison and demonstrate the absence of any anaemia in uncomplicated cases of 
that disease. It will be seen that Neil Campbell's cases show an anaemia progressing 
with the course of the disease, but not attaining a high degree. It is accompanied 
by a slight absolute, and more marked relative, increase in the white corpuscles, 
with a variable, but distinct, increase in the proportion of the large mononuclears. 
The outbreak he deals with was a very mild one, as evidenced by the absence of any 
fatahties among 155 cases in lunatics, many of whom were doubtless not in robust 
health. This accounts for the greater degree of anaemia in my series of hospital 
cases, some of the patients having come from distant towns on account of the in- 
tractabiUty of their attacks. The average loss of red corpuscles was here almost 
one half of the normal, while the ratio of white to red corpuscles was double the 
normal. It is also noteworthy that even in cases showing an absolute leucocytosis, 
the proportion of polynuclears was never above the normal limit, while in several 
cases the lymphocytes or large mononuclears were in excess. Anaemia and an 
absolute or relative increase of the white corpuscles, then, form a constant and 
important feature of well marked cases of this disease, their degree being also in 
proportion to the severity and duration of the symptoms, thus constituting in 
themselves an essential point of differentiation between this disease and beri-beri. 



TABLE XLVI. 



-BLOOD CHANGES IN EPIDEMIC DROPSY, AND BERI-BERI 
RESPECTIVELY. 



.2 
H 

9 

^2; 


.2 



B 

% 
M 


.3 
.o 

S 6 
tea 


Red Corpuscles. 


White 
Corpuscles. 


Ratio of Red 
tc White 


o 

3 
C 

"o 


>> 

o 

o 

S 


Large 
Mononuclears. 


1 

.a 
o 


1 


54 


•74 


3,490,000 


10,375 


1-329 


716 


20 


7^2 


12 


2 


30 


•64 


2,350,000 


13,125 


1-179 


57-8 


122 


50 


25 


3 


34 


•56 


3,035,000 


6,000 


1-506 


56-8 


292 


7-6 


6-4 


4 


31 


•71 


2,185,000 


8,250 


1-262 


50-4 


34-8 


132 


1-6 


5 


44 


•76 


2,880,000 


12,625 


1-228 


624 


24-8 


120 


1-2 


6 


38 


•76 


2,490,000 


7,250 


1-340 


71-2 


220 


68 


00 


7 


33 


•77 


2,155,000 


6,000 


1-359 


54-8 


38 


5-6 


16 


8 


36 


•64 


2,280,000 


6,125 


1-365 


58 


248 


124 


48 


Average 


37-5 


•69 


2,608,000 


8,719 


1-325 


60-3 


252 


86 


69 




Aver 


age of 


Pekelharing 


andWinkl 


er's 17 Beri- 


beri ca 


ses. 








88 


•86 


5,100,000 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 




Aver 


age 


of Gloyner's 


17 Beri-beri 


cases 












90 


•98 


4,560,000 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 


— 



.402 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

THE MORTALITY. — The mortality is very variable, having been nil in 155 
cases in the Dacca Asylum, but 20*3 per cent, on the Darjeeling tea-gardens, accord- 
ing to Munro, or 7*5 per thousand of the population. In Calcutta the death rate 
appears to be very low as a rule, probably about 5 per cent., but there is a tendency 
for a series of severe cases to occur in certain households with several deaths. 

POST-MORTEM APPEARANCES.— In only a few cases have the lesions found 
after death been recorded, and in these the most characteristic feature is the accu- 
mulation of clear serous fluid in the subcutaneous tissues, the peritoneal, pleural 
and pericardial cavities, and also within the lungs, which commonly present an 
extreme degree of oedema which is often the immediate cause of death, being evi- 
denced during life by steadily increasing orthopnoea. Occasionally there may be 
oedema of the glottis. Rutherford has also recorded the presence of organized 
lymph on the mesentery without any clinical evidence of peritonitis, and also marked 
congestion of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. I have also found con- 
gestion of the small intestine in two cases, in one of which there was also shght ulcer- 
ation immediately above the Ueo-coecal valve. The oedema of the subcutaneous 
tissues is of a peculiar hard brawny character. There was very little fluid in the 
abdomen. 

PROGNOSIS. — This is good except in the most severe cases with high fever and 
effusion into the pleural cavities and the lungs, in which it is always grave. Although 
ultimately complete recovery is the rule, nevertheless in well marked cases convales- 
cence is frequently very slow, a tendency to the recurrence of oedema of the feet 
and general debihty, sometimes remaining for many months. Relapses, even of 
a fatal nature, may occur after marked improvement. 

ETIOLOGY 

The two great outbreaks of epidemic dropsy in 1877-79 and 1907-08 took place 
during periods of famine in extensive tracts of India, this produced a very marked 
enhancement of the cost of the staple grain foods in Bengal and Assam, which in 
turn led to the use of inferior qualities, especially among the poorer classes, and also 
the importation of enormous quantities of Burma rice during the last outbreak. 
Suspicion has largely fallen on the latter as an important factor in producing the 
disease, for Burma rice differs from that of Bengal in that it is stripped of its pericarp, 
thus losing much of its small amount of proteid, while this treatment also renders 
it more liable to invasion by fungi, etc., which may possibly make it unfit for con- 
sumption or even actively poisonous. On analyzing the data regarding the use 
of Burma rice in the various recent epidemics, however, it is found that it was given 
exclusively in many large jails in which no epidemic dropsy appeared, while it was 
not used at all in either the Sylhet jail or in the Dacca Asylum where so many cases 
of the disease appeared. On the other hand much Burma rice had been imported 
into the affected Darjeeling district. In Calcutta I have met with a number of 
severe cases in high class Hindu families, who certainly did not use Burma rice, so 
that this per se does not appear to be a sufficient exciting cause of the disease. 



EPIDEMIC DROPSY 403 

INFECTIVE THEORY. — Several features of the disease point to its being an 
infectious one, using that term in its widest sense of communicabiUty. Thus, 
it is certainly very largely a house infection, as shown by the data I recorded regard- 
ing the Calcutta 1901 outbreak, which have been fully confirmed in subsequent ones. 
Several members of a household commonly first suffer within a day or two, due to 
simultaneous attacks, and after a week or more others of the family fall ill, until 
few if any escape. In two jail outbreaks it has been noted that prisoners in neigh- 
bouring beds were often attacked while at Comilla the disease ceased a week after 
evacuation of the building. Delaney has suggested that bed-bugs may possibly 
convey the infection but Neil Campbell points out that this could not have been 
the case in the Dacca Asylum as there is good reason to suppose that all the 155 
patients scattered uniformly throughout both the male and the female sections of 
the institution were simultaneously infected. The prehminary outbreak of diarrhoea 
immediately before this epidemic points to the ahmentary canal as the channel 
of entry of the poison, whatever its nature may be. The occurrence of fever in aU 
marked cases, and in many mild ones when carefully sought for, is much in favour 
of some actual infective organism being the causative agent, rather than a vegetable 
poison such as produces lathyxism. Mineral oU used to adulterate the mustard oil 
so largely used in native cooking, has been suspected, but I failed to produce any 
symptoms by feeding monkeys on mineral oil. 

MOULDY GRAIN THEORY.— All the facts regarding the etiology can best 
be reconciled by the suggestion of Neil Campbell that epidemic dropsy is probably 
due to any form of rice which has developed mould or fungus on account of improper 
storage, which in its turn produces a poison. This is absorbed from the intestinal 
canal and causes the symptoms. It may, I think, possibly be bacterial or protozoal 
in nature, and thus induce a f»ver-producing infection, rather than a simple poison- 
ing as Neil Campbell suggests, but this is a matter for future investigation to decide. 
The fact that Burma rice is decorticated, and thus more easily invaded by fungi or 
bacteria, would explain the greater prevalence of the disease during periods of exten- 
sive importation of this variety of rice. Again, the frequency with which outbreaks 
occur in the damp rainy season and in the exceedingly moist climates of Lower 
Bengal and Assam, is also readily explained as being due to deterioration of rice 
grains, for these inferior and damaged grades are often aU that the coolie class can 
afford during times of high prices. The occurrence of cases in weU-to-do Indian 
famihes may be explained through the adulteration of the better grades of grain 
used by them with inferior and dangerous ones. This theory, then, appears to me to 
furnish the most likely clue to the solution of the mystery on experimental lines, it 
is worthy of the close attention of all who may meet with outbreaks of epidemic 
dropsy. 



UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVERS 

CHRONIC FEVER WITH JOINT COMPLICATIONS CAUSED BY A MINUTE COCCUS 

A very intractable but rare fever met with in Calcutta is characterized by- 
irregular and persistent temperature, accompanied by pains and swelling of the 
joints which are often acutely tender but without much redness or heat. The 
duration varies from several months up to three or more years, with remissions 
and exacerbations. The leucocytes are increased in numbers to the extent of a well 
marked leucocytosis with only a sHght increase in the proportions of the polynu- 
clears. The heart is not involved, with the exception of haemic murmurs in the 
more anaemic patients, the red corpuscles being reduced to a moderate extent. 
The serum reaction to Malta fever is negative even in 1 in 10 dilutions while the 
patients do not present the appearance or complications of that disease, profuse 
sweats and orchitis not having been observed in any of them. I have long suspected 
that some form of coccus might be the cause of the fever, and have now been able 
both to verify this surmise and to cure by vaccine treatment the following very 
chronic and severe case. 

FEVER WITH SWELLING OF THE JOINTS OF THREE YEARS' DURATION ; 
IN WHICH A MINUTE COCCUS WAS GROWN FROM THE BLOOD, AND THE 
PATIENT CURED BY A VACCINE MADE FROM IT.— A European girl, aged seven 
years, admitted on July 15, 1907, with a history of having suffered from repeated 
attacks of fever, accompanied by swelling of various joints, for the past three 
years. She was very emaciated, the elbows, wrists, knees, and ankles were swollen 
and painful, although not acutely inflamed. The internal organs were healthy, 
the spleen not being enlarged, and there was no affection of the heart. While in 
hospital she continued to suffer from fever of an irregular intermittent type, fre- 
quently rising to 103° F., sometimes with rigors. In August the fever assumed a 
high remittent type from 100° to 105°, and twice reached 106°. Sodium salicylate 
did no good, and antistreptococcus serum was also injected without benefit. In 
October and November the fever dechned again to an intermittent type, but with 
frequent rises to from 103° to 105°. At the beginning of December, Dr. J. G. Murray, 
I.M.S., under whose care she was, kindly gave her an anaesthetic to enable me to 
puncture the swollen elbow joint and take some blood from a vein for culture pur- 
poses. No fluid could be found in the joint, the fibrous tissues around it were 
much thickened. From the venous blood, diluted in a flask of broth, a pure culture 
was obtained in one day of a minute coccus, which grew on agar in fine transparent 
droplets, resembUng that of a streptococcus, although it proved microscopically to be a 
minute staphylococcus. It was a very deUcate organism and in spite of frequent 

404 



UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVERS 405 

transfers it died out before the recently described differential fermentation tests 
could be carried out, although not before a vaccine had been made. A blood count 
made at the same time showed 4,790,000 red corpuscles, 26,000 white, with a differ- 
ential count of 62 per cent, polynuclears, 36 per cent, lymphocytes, and 2 per cent, 
large mononuclears. She was injected with the vaccine on December 15, when the 
temperature was of an intermittent type, and received four doses in the course of the 
next two months. During this time the temperature kept at a much lower level, 
seldom rising over 100° F., and from the end of March it only occasionally rose to 100°. 
The joint swellings and pains (decreased with the fall of temperature, and the child 
has now been completely free from fever for nearly two years. She learnt to walk 
and run, and became very well nourished, putting on many pounds in weight. 
No trace of her long illness remains except slight limitation of the movements of 
the most affected elbow joint and the leucocytosis has also disappeared. This 
case is one of the most remarkable recoveries I have ever seen. Dr. Murray had 
no doubt whatever that it was due to the vaccine. The micrococcus was certainly 
not that of Malta fever but its exact classification remains unsettled. There was 
no reaction to Malta fever at any time. 

A very similar case in a native boy is now under observation, and has 
improved considerably under treatment by a vaccine made with a coccus grown 
from his venous blood. 

FEVERS DUE TO GENITO-URINARY AND OTHER INFECTIONS WITH THE 

BACILLUS COLI 

Many cases of severe fever accompanying bacillus coli infections, most com- 
monly in the genito-urinary tract, have been recorded in the last few years in Europe 
and America. Recently they have also been recognized in India, and observations 
in Calcutta during the last two years have shown them to be a not infrequent cause 
of obscure pyrexia, the true nature of which is very liable to be overlooked. In 
India as in Europe the disease is far more common in females than males, this is 
readily explained if infection be proved to occur through the urethra which is much 
shorter in women. In a recent paper {Indian Medical Gazette, November 1909, Sup- 
plement), I tabulated seventeen cases of genito-m"inary bacillus coU infections in the 
puerperal state and eight more following gynaecological operations, five being for 
suppurative salpingitis, thus the disease is evidently quite common in the tropics. 
I am indebted to Lt. Colonel C. M. R. Green, I.M.S., for opportunities of research 
on these patients. In addition I have met with several exceedingly acute general 
bacillus coli infections of great interest, which were not recognized during life. 
The genito-urinary list of cases presented the following features. 

TYPE OF THE FEVER. — The most marked character of the fever is the irregu- 
larity of the temperature curve and the frequency of the occurrence of severe rigora 
with rapid rises to 104° or 105° F., sometimes more than once in the twenty-four 
hours. They may thus closely simulate serious septic infection due to streptococci. 



406 ' FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

and when present in the puerperal condition give rise to great alarm, although usually 
not very serious if recognized and treated efficiently. The frequent occurrence of 
well marked leucocytosis in bacillus coU infections adds still further to the difficulty of 
diagnosis as it can usually only be made by a bacteriological examination of the 
urine. In other cases the rise of temperature is less sudden, taking several days 
to reach the maximum and more closely resembling a typhoid chart. In one 
patient whose blood I was asked to examine for typhoid, the temperature had risen 
slowly, but subsequently showed rapid fluctuations, which made me suspect a bacillus 
coU infection ; Widal's test was negative and on examining the urine it was swarming 
with bacillus coh. In another case rapid fluctuations of the fever with rigors occurred 
early after childbirth but they became more typhoid-Hke and bacillus coU was found 
in the urine, the fever eventually yielded quickly to coli vaccine. There is a 
tendency for the fever in these cases to subside spontaneously, especially in the 
slighter infections. 

CHARACTERS OF THE URINE. — Except in some long standing cases, often 
with little fever, there are usually no sjrmptoms referable to the urinary system 
in these cases. Unless, therefore, the condition is suspected and the urine examined, 
the cause of the fever is hkely to be overlooked. The urine is nearly always acid, 
there is no pain on passing it and often no undue frequency of mictiurition. It 
may even be quite clear when the bacilli are few in numbers, but more frequently 
it is slightly opalescent, which should lead to its being microscopically examined. 
In such cases a drop of the urine under an ordinary high power lens will show 
numerous active rod-shaped bacteria moving in all directions similar to the condition 
seen in typhoid bacilluria. Sometimes many of the bacteria will be clumped and 
only a few active. If the urine has been obtained in a sterile test-tube, a pure 
culture of the coh bacillus will readily be obtained from it. In a few cases the 
organism is only found on culture, but the fever may be high in such cases. In the 
great majority of the urines there was no obvious deposit, beyond a httle mucus 
on standing. In some there were no pus cells even on centrifugalization, although 
occasionally they may be numerous under these conditions. The importance of 
microscopical examinations of the urine in these cases is obvious, for in the early 
stage the treatment is generally very satisfactory although it becomes much more 
difficult if they are allowed to become chronic. 

The puerperal cases are very common in Calcutta, over twenty such cases hav- 
ing been met with in a single year in the Eden hospital for women. In all but six 
of these the coh bacillus was readily found by microscopical examination of the 
urine and in five of these by culture only. In one it was isolated from the uterine 
discharge. In five cases rupture of the perineum requiring suture was recorded, 
in three more, tears of the vaginal wall, these affording opportunities of entrance 
to the coh baciUi. The time of onset was commonly two to four days after delivery. 
The infections following g3aiaecological operations were mostly after removal of 
suppurating tubes, namely five out of the eight cases. In two there was a recto- 
vaginal fistula. 



UNCLASSIFIED LONG FEVERS 407 

In addition to the above puerperal and gynaecological cases, I have met with 
several other genito-urinary bacillus coU infections in both men and women in India, 
giving rise to fever of a somewhat obscure nature, thus it is by no means a rare 
disease. 

Several very acute general bacillus coli infections have also been recognized 
in the post-mortem room after death from an acute febrile attack. The patients 
were usually admitted in an unconscious and almost moribund condition, some 
of them having been suspected to be plague. In two of these a thickened congested 
appearance of the large intestine, resembUng early bacillary dysentery, was found, but 
a pure culture of bacillus coli was obtained from the spleen. Small haemorrhagic ulcers 
were also present in the stomach in one, resembling plague, and it was only on mak- 
ing cultures from the spleen that the cause of the septicaemic process was recognized. 
Cases of multiple small suppurating points in the Uver and spleen respectively, due 
to coU baciUi, have also been met with, infection of the bladder being present as 
weU in one renal case. The other patient had acute hepatitis in hospital with 
91 per cent, of polynuclear leucocytes, and the gaU bladder as weU as the portal 
veins contained coU baciUi. These cases have not yet been recognized during life. 

TREATMENT. — The importance of being on the look-out for fevers due to 
baciUus coU infection is that they readily yield to vaccines, often to a stock one, 
but sometimes they require to be made from the patient's own bacillus. 



RECENT WORK ON BLACKWATER FEVER 

During 1908 and 1909 important investigations have been carried out on 
blackwater fever both in India and in Africa, which have added considerably to 
our knowledge of the disease, although they have not completely solved the pro- 
blem of its exact causation. At the end of 1908 a comprehensive report by S. R. 
Christophers and C. A. Bentley appeared on their inquiry into the prevalence 
of blackwater fever in the Duars, a highly malarious tract in continuation with 
the Darjeehng terai. 

THE DISTRIBUTION AND RELATIONSHIP TO MALARIA is first dealt with, 
and it is shown that blackwater fever is prevalent in precisely those parts of India 
which are most highly malarious, which the greater part of the country is not. The 
Duars is the site of the greatest prevalence of blackwater fever in India, and it 
presents an endemic index of approximately 100, equal to that of the most malarious 
parts of Africa where blackwater fever is common. Owing to the yearly arrival 
of susceptible people to work on the tea-gardens, the important factor of 
labour aggregation tends to heighten the malarial incidence in this already very 
unhealthy terai area. Moreover, the blackwater fever cases almost all occurred in 
the gardens situated in the worst part close to the foot of the hills. Euro- 
peans living here constantly suffer from attacks of fever, which they get so accus- 
tomed to that they tend to make light of them and neglect adequate treatment, 
as well as prophylaxis. At least fifty out of sixty Europeans resident in one area 
were personally known to the investigators to have had attacks of fever within a 
single year. Both Europeans and native babus often suffered from malarial fever 
every ten days or so for months at a time and the surrounding conditions are so 
malarious that it would be almost impossible for them to have escaped infection, 
neglecting as they did all prophylactic measures. 

The RACIAL INCIDENCE showed the greatest amount of infection among 
Europeans, and next in the native babu class from less malarious parts. Chinese 
carpenters also suffered, while three attacks were seen in Indian coolies. 



The SEASONAL INCIDENCE showed the greatest prevalence in the more 
malarious last two quarters of the year, as seen from the following figures : — 



First quarter 

8 
Under 6 months. 





Second quarter 
16 

6-12 months. 
8 



Third quarter 
34 

12-24 months. 
40 

408 



24-36 months. 
12 



Fourth quarter 
25 
36-48 months. 
5 



Total 
83 

48-60 months. 
1 



RECENT WORK ON BLACKWATER FEVER 409 

The effect of LENGTH OF RESIDENCE in the Duars is shown from the follow- 
ing data. 

The absence of the disease in the first six months of residence in the endemic 
area is very remarkable if the disease be a specific one. The great frequency of 
attacks in the second and third years of residence in a very malarious area is most 
striking. Second attacks most frequently occur during the first year after the 
primary one, and especially during the first six months. Third attacks are much 
less frequent in the Duars than second ones. After five years' residence there is 
much less fiabihty to attacks. Infection occurs earlier and more severely in those 
who have been especially subject to malaria. Thus, the more minutely the 
conditions are examined the more intimately is blackwater fever found to be 
associated with malaria. 

The parasite most commonly met with in blackwater fever is the malignant 
tertian, the other forms being rare. The most minute scrutiny of blood slides from 
cases of the disease faUed to reveal any other parasites than those of malaria. More- 
over, a greater incidence of malaria was foimd among blackwater fever cases than 
in the rest of the community, but the parasites disappear from the blood during an 
attack owing to the dissolution of the damaged corpuscles containing them. 

All these facts go to show that in the absence of any direct evidence of the 
occurrence of a specific organism in blackwater fever apart from the malarial par- 
asite, taken with the intimate association of the disease with prolonged exposure 
to highly malarious conditions, there can be no reasonable doubt that blackwater 
fever is but a complication of malaria, and thus an easily preventable disease. 

THE URINE IN BLACKWATER FEVER.— The changes in the urine have been 
carefully studied by both Christophers and Bentley in India, and by Drs. J. O. 
Wakelin and Warrington Yorke of the Liverpool School in Africa. Haemoglobin 
is passed as such in large amounts, but much of it becomes converted in the urinary 
passages into an amorphous brown material, not giving the haemoglobin bands 
with the spectroscope, together with a certain amount of methaermoglobin. The 
amount of these substances represents but a small portion of the haemoglobin lost 
from the blood. Urobilin is present in excess in the urine, but bile pigments are not 
found. Much albumen is present and lasts for some time after the haemoglobinuria 
has ceased. Christophers and Bentley found a remarkable proportion between 
the percentage of haemoglobin and the amount of albumen. Granular casts are 
found in the urine in large numbers, and they are minutely described and figured 
by Barratt and Yorke in their report in the Annals of Tropical Medicine and Para- 
sitology of October 1909. The latter workers also describe fully the changes met 
with post-mortem in the kidneys, and confirm and extend H. Werner's observations 
on the blocking of the urinary tubules, especially the ducts of Bertini, which are 
the largest collecting tubes with detritus. To this they attribute the suppression of 
urine, which is thus of a mechanical nature. They found no evidence that the 
disease is due to haemorrhage taking place within the kidney substance. They 
mention two cases in which nephrotomy of one kidney was performed for suppres- 



410 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

sion of urine in blackwater fever, but although some secretion of urine was thus 
obtained, both terminated fatally. 

THE BLOOD CHANGES. — The most interesting part of the recent work con« 
cems the precise changes which occur in the blood in this disease, which have not 
previously been accurately determined. The destruction of the red corpuscles 
takes place in two ways. Firstly, as described by Christophers and Bentley, and 
confirmed by the Liverpool workers, the spleen shows extensive phagocytosis of the 
red cells in both large macrophages and in smaller cells, down to about the size of a 
lymphocyte. Secondly, an active dissolution of the red cells takes place within the 
circulation producing an actual haemoglobin-anaemia. Barratt and Yorke have 
measured the degree of this change in the plasma with the spectroscope in a number 
of cases of blackwater fever, in three of which the observations were made before, 
during, and after an attack. Their method showed a small amount of dissolved haemo- 
globin in oxalated blood plasma of healthy men but it rarely exceeded 15 per cent. 
In blackwater fever occasionally only these same small amounts were found even 
during an attack, but in the considerable majority the amount was greatly increased, 
rising to from 040 to 0*95 per cent. There was also a close relationship between the 
amount of colouring matter dissolved in the blood and the degree of haemoglo- 
binuria present at the same time. They further carried out a series of experiments on 
rabbits to determine if the injection of a solution of haemoglobin into the veins 
would produce haemoglobinuria, and plotted out curves of the amount of this sub- 
stance in the blood and the urine at difierent intervals after the injections. When 
the urine was obtained by continuous catheterization they found that the rate of 
excretion continued to rise for some hours after the injection until the amount in 
the urine exceeds that in the blood, and later it slowly falls again. It is thus clear 
that the presence of excess of dissolved haemoglobin in the blood does produce 
haemoglobinuria, and that such excess is commonly present during the course of 
blackwater fever. 

IS BLACKWATER FEVER PRODUCED BY A HAEMOLYSIN ?— In paroxysmal 
haemoglobinuria Doath and Landsteiner have proved the presence of a haemolysin 
in the blood of afifected persons which may be brought into action by cooling the 
blood and then raising it again to body heat. They have also prepared a serum by 
injecting such blood into an animal and were able to prevent attacks by its use, 
Barratt and Yorke failed to find such a haemolysin in blackwater fever, except to a 
very slight extent in one case, and they concluded that the haemoglobinuria of black- 
water fever is not dependent on haemolysin-anaemia. Christophers and Bentley, 
however, found that on injecting haemolysin into the blood of an animal it very 
quickly disappeared and its presence could not be recognized by the usual tests, 
although'it must have been present and had.actually produced, in the blood and organs 
of the dogs used, changes very similar to those found in blackwater fever. They 
therefore conclude that the disease is probably due to some specific haemolysin 
arising in the body as a result of repeated attacks of malaria, in which frequent 



RECENT WORK ON BLACKWATER FEVER 411 

dissolutions of red corpuscles take place in the internal organs : much as when 
repeated injections of blood are made into an animal in producing a haemolysin arti- 
ficially. They also give evidence to show that anti-haemolytic bodies may be formed 
in the blood of a protective nature. Both the Indian and African workers men- 
tioned, agree that quinine can never be present in the system in anything approach- 
ing the quantities necessary to have a direct action in dissolving the red corpuscles. 
Moreover, Christophers and Bentley have not been able to confirm the observations 
of D. McCoy to the e£Fect that the sulphate of quinine markedly lowered the salt con- 
tent of the blood and so predisposed to dissolution of the red corpuscles. They 
think that haemolysins are formed in malaria as a result of the constant phagocy- 
tosis of the red cells, which is most marked in the malignant tertian form, and sug- 
gest that the sudden liberation of compliment in the body, in some way or other 
not yet understood, may possibly precipitate dissolution of the red corpuscles and 
an attack of blackwater fever. These important observations allow a clearer view 
to be obtained of the actual occurrences in the blood in blackwater fever, and pave 
the way for further advances from experimental work on similar lines. 

PROPHYLAXIS. — During the last year or two blackwater fever has almost 
disappeared from the Duars as a result of the recent nearly universal adoption of 
quinine prophylaxis. The few exceptional cases have been entirely among those 
who neglected this precaution. Five grains a day have suflficed to protect from 
both malaria and its complication, blackwater fever. The now very general recog- 
nition of the malarial origin of the latter should therefore lead to its general abolition, 
and quinine, in regular preventative doses, will be regarded as a means of staving 
off this terrible complication, in place of being dreaded as its exciting cause. 



THE ETIOLOGY OF PLAGUE 

W. J. Simpson, working with Hunter in Hong-Kong in 1908, claims to have 
demonstrated that pigs, calves, buffaloes, sheep, hens, ducks, geese, turkeys and 
pigeons are susceptible to plague, in addition to rats, especially when fed on plague 
material. As these observations were totally at variance with all Indian experi- 
ence, the experiments were repeated by W. B. Bannerman at the Bombay laboratory 
with entirely negative results while H. Watkins-Pitchford was equally unsuccessful 
in Natal. Bannerman further points out that the tests mentioned in Simpson's 
report were not sufficient to absolutely exclude the possibility of his cultures having 
been those of organisms of the " chicken-cholera " or " hog-cholera " groups, which 
are known to produce fatal disease in pigs and some birds in China. The weight 
of evidence is therefore much against the common domestic animals being liable 
to natural infection with plague. Squirrels are not very rarely attacked in India, 
but as they rarely invade houses they can play but a small part in the spread of the 
disease as compared with rats. Monkeys have also been found naturally infected, 
one outbreak among them occurred in the Bombay Zoological Gardens immediately 
following the discovery of two rats in the monkey house which were proved to have 
died of plague. Moreover, monkeys have been proved to be readUy infected by the 
bites of fleas from plague-stricken rats, so that it would be surprising if these insects 
were not also able to infect man under suitable conditions. 

We may therefore conclude that although the very rare primary pneumonic 
type of plague is very infectious to sick attendants or others in the house, yet the 
common bubonic and septicaemic forms are not at all directly infectious, well kept 
plague hospitals in fact having been found to be the safest places during an 
epidemic because they are free from rat fleas. Moreover, from 70 to 80 per cent, 
of plague cases in different places occur as single infections in a house, while if 
more than one occurs they are due to simultaneous infection as a rule, and further 
attacks among the household rarely take place even when the patient is treated 
throughout at home. No amount of excreta or soiled clothes from plague-infected 
animals or men will produce plague in the most susceptible animals in the absence 
of fleas, or according to Verjbitski, of bugs. On the other hand the most thorough 
disinfection with strong perchloride of mercury solution of a room in which a plague 
person has died will not prevent the subsequent infection of guinea-pigs set free there, 
because this agent, although very powerful against the plague bacillus, does not 
kill the rat flea, which can be caught in undiminished numbers after its use. Soil 
and air infection having been excluded as a common method of infection, while 
fleas, and especially the rat flea in India, have been shown to be able to readily convey 
the infection in the absence of other possible agencies, this insect must now be regarded 

412 



I 



THE ETIOLOGY OF PLAGUE 413 

as the ordinary carrier of the disease from rat to rat and from rat to man. The 
importance of this fact cannot be overestimated, as all available men and funds 
can now be concentrated in fighting a known foe by scientifically based methods, 
instead of dissipating much energy in a large variety of measures of more or 
less doubtful efficacy, 

MODE OF INFECTION THROUGH FLEAS.— Although the experhnents ah-eady 
related clearly demonstrate that fleas may convey the infection of plague from 
one animal to another, yet the precise manner of the conveyance of the plague 
bacillus is a more difficult problem. In the first place fleas, and doubtless bugs also, 
readily imbibe the plague bacillus together with the blood of an animal or man suffer- 
ing from septicaemic plague, using that term in its bacteriological sense of cases pre- 
senting the organism in the circulating blood. Infected rats commonly have from one 
to many mfllion bacilli per c.c. of blood shortly before death, moreover the organisms 
multiply in the gastro-intestinal canals of the fleas, and can be usually readily found 
in them some time after feeding on a plague-stricken animal. They are, however, 
limited to the alimentary canal, they do not enter the tissues of the insects and have 
never been found in their salivary gland. Further, the oesophageal end of the 
stomach is so well guarded that even strong pressure will not cause its contents to 
regurgitate. Infection by biting is thus excluded. On the other hand, large num- 
bers of plague bacilli are passed by the rectum, and fleas while sucking their fill of 
blood may be observed to exude several drops of fluid per anum, which will be 
deposited in close proximity with the small punctured wounds they inflict. The 
Plague Commission have proved that infection may be produced by smearing matter 
containing plague bacilli over the punctures of uninfected fleas, so that these wounds 
do suffice for the entry of the organism, which may frequently be facilitated by 
the patient scratching the site of irritation. It has been objected, especially by 
W. C. Hossack, that the chances against such a mode of infection are too remote 
to account for such a disease as plague. When, however, we remember that several 
scores of rat fleas may be trapped on guinea-pigs in a room where a rat has died 
of plague, and that in Hossack's own experiments every one out of six rat fleas readily 
bit a man on whom they were placed, it is evident that if infection by a rat flea was 
other than a very occasional one, it would be difficult for any one living in an in- 
fected house to escape the disease instead of but one member suffering, as in the great 
majority of cases. The fact, too, that plague is primarily a disease of rats, and only 
to a slighter extent of man, is also in accordance with the rat flea only attacking man 
under exceptional circumstances, as when deprived of food by the death of their 
natural host the rat. 

Again, in 58 per cent, of plague cases examined by the Commission in 
the Bombay Hospital the bacillus of the disease was cultivated from the blood, 
although in nearly all of them buboes were present. Recovery very rarely takes 
place once the blood stream has been invaded by the organism, over 95 per cent, 
of such late secondary septicaemic cases having proved fatal. Shortly before 
death the plague bacillus may be present in the blood stream in very large numbers, 



414 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

and as the human flea has been shown to be occasionally capable of carrying the 
infection, while Verjbitski has also incriminated the bed-bug, it is possible that direct 
infection between man and man may also sometimes take place though these insects. 

THE EPIDEMIOLOGY OF PLAGUE IN THE LIGHT OF THE RAT FLEA THEORY OF 

INFECTION 

So many theories regarding plague have been disproved by the hard logic 
of steadily accumulating facts concerning the behaviour of the disease under 
diverse conditions and in diverse places, that it will be well to briefly review the 
main facts of its epidemiology, in order to see how far they comply with the demands 
of the rat flea theory of infection ; for imless it will stand this test it is not likely 
to exert due weight in ensuring the adoption of practical measures for combating 
this terrible scourge of humanity. 

PLAGUE IS PRIMARILY AN EPIZOOTIC IN RATS.— Although isolated cases 
of plague may occur in a town or village as a result of importation of the disease by 
human agency, yet the disease does not become epidemic among the population 
until rats have begun to die in unusual numbers from plague, that is until plague 
has become epizootic among the rats. Ashburton Thompson carefully studied this 
relationship in Sydney, where repeated small outbreaks have occurred since 1900. 
He systematically examined rats from the infected quarters and demonstrated that 
the epizootic area was practically co-extensive with the epidemic area. Hunter 
made similar extensive observations in Hong-Kong and found the curves of infection 
in rats and man ran a closely parallel course, only both the rise and the fall of the 
rat disease was about a fortnight before that of the human cases. Moreover, after 
the decline of the epidemic the number of infected rats also remained low. Kitasato 
and others found the same time relationship of the disease in rats and men in Japan. 
More recently the Bombay Plague Commission have fully established this relationship 
by very extensive investigations, and found the mean interval between the epizootic 
in Mus rattus to be approximately ten to fourteen days, varying from three and a 
half weeks at the beginning of the rise, through two weeks at its height to only a 
week during the second well-marked apex. This interval they explain by allowing 
three days before the rat flea bites man, three days for the incubation period in man, 
and five and a half days for the average duration of the illness in fatal human 
plague. 

RELATIONSHIP OF THE SPREAD OF THE DISEASE IN VILLAGES TO RAT 
INFECTION. — Striking confirmation of the spread of plague by means of rats is 
afforded by the distribution of the disease in Indian villages. Those of the areas 
which have suffered most severely from plague are built of mud walls, usually back 
to back, but frequently in order to pass from one house to another, against which 
it abuts, it is necessary to traverse a quarter of a mile or so of narrow lanes. More- 
over, owing to differences in caste it is common for the inhabitants of one house to 
never hold any intercourse with those of contiguous ones. Under these conditions 



THE ETIOLOGY OF PLAGUE 416 

it is found that the disease does not spread from one household to another of the 
same caste with whom they have social intercourse, but the reverse is usually the case. 
In the earUer days of the present pandemic, a common preventative measure was to 
unroof the houses in which plague cases had occurred, in order to utiUze the powerful 
disinfecting rays of the sun, and to prevent the owners from prematurely reoccupying 
them. It was then frequently observed that the unroofed houses formed a con- 
tinuous series, although quite irrespective of the facilities for human intercourse 
between one another. Now these mud walled houses are infested with Mus ratttis, 
the common house rat of Indian villages, and their burrows in the floors and walls 
form a continuous connexion down the rows of infected huts, so that the distribution 
of the disease is at once most simply explained by the knowledge that plague is 
communicable from rat to rat and from rat to man. 

A remarkable piece of evidence connecting the epizootic among rats with the 
infectiveness of the houses is furnished by the observations of the Bombay Plague 
C5ommission in the village of Sion Koliwada, which was under their close observation 
both before and after the infection of the place. In the antecedent period no plague 
had been found among trapped rats. Then human plague appeared after the death 
of a rat which had been concealed, and the villagers evacuated the village almost 
completely. The Commission at once proceeded to watch the epizootic among 
the rats which had now begun and also to test the infectivity of the houses by means 
of placing susceptible guinea-pigs in each hut in cages, some of which were so con- 
structed that the animals could not come into contact with the soil, although they 
were within the reach of fleas. Although, so far as could be ascertained, only one case 
of human plague had been introduced into the village, the disease spread steadily 
through the rats for two months, and no less than 45 per cent, of the buildings were 
eventually proved to be infective to the guinea-pigs, although direct spread from 
one animal to another was excluded, and the conditions were such that the only mode 
of transference of the disease was by means of the rat fleas, which were caught in 
abimdance on the animals and some of them proved to contain the plague bacillus. 
By these means a clear picture of the spread of the disease from rat to rat and from 
rat to guinea-pig was obtained, such as is not possible in the case of human plague. 

SPECIES OF RATS AND PLAGUE.— The commonest species of rat in India 
is the domestic Mus rattus, which appears to be the only species associated with 
plague met with in all parts of India yet examined, except in the great seaports. As 
it lives in the houses and is tolerated there by the people, it has ample opportunities 
for spreading plague. The rats of the large ports present curious differences in 
various parts of India. Thus, Dr. Hossack, who first carefully studied the question 
in India from the zoological point of view, found that Mus rattus was compara- 
tively rare in Calcutta, Mus decumanus was common, but the preponderating 
rodent is the common field rat, Nesokia Bengalensis, all of these being susceptible 
to plague. In Bombay the Plague Commission found 70 per cent, of the total and 
84*6 per cent, of the infected rats were Mus decumanus, the great majority of the 
remainder being Mus rattus. Mus decumanus lives mainly in gulleys and drains, 

27 



416 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

but is also found in burrows in stables, and is not infrequently trapped in Bombay 
houses, even above the ground floor, usually climbing up pipes. This is now the 
common rat of Europe and of ships, through which it has probably reached tropical 
ports. According to the Bombay "workers the plague epizootic begins each year 
in M. decumanus some ten days earlier than in M. rattus, the latter being infected 
after the former, which are the primary cause of the outbreak. Captain Lloyd, 
I.M.S., has recently examined large numbers of rats from various parts of India, 
and finds that Mus decumanus is not common in Rangoon, while it appears to be 
absent from Madras city : as he found none among over 1,000 examined : a point 
of great interest in connexion with the very slight amount of plague which has 
occurred in Madras town. He also observes that the rats of particular towns 
commonly have such a close family likeness that the place of origin can with 
experience be at once detected. 

The Mus rattus can be distinguished by its long ringed dark coloured tail being 
longer than its head and body put together. Its ears are large and thin, while its 
colour varies widely from a light brown to black, the belly being always of a lighter 
shade. Mus decumanus, on the other hand, has a tail shorter than the head and 
body together. The ears are smaller than in Mus rattus and the nose almost Roman, 
while the colour is brownish grey and less variable than in the former species. 

THE SEASONAL INCIDENCE OF PLAGUE.— Plague presents a peculiarly 
well marked seasonal incidence, with a very rapid rise to the maximum within a 
few weeks and a nearly equally rapid decline. Nevertheless, it reaches its maximum 
at very different periods of the year in different places, in a remarkable manner, 
and at the same time recurs at the same season year after year in any given place. 
Thus, in Bombay the season of plague is from January to April, and in Calcutta 
from February to May. Yet in Poona, at a distance of only eighty miles from 
Bombay, but at about 2,000 feet above sea level, with the exception of a slight out- 
break during February and March in the year it was introduced, the regular annual 
season is between August and the following March, the maximum being somewhat 
variable. In the Punjab the marked seasonal increase occurs from March to May, 
while in the hot months from June to September it is never epidemic, but there is 
a tendency to recrudesce during the winter months, leading up to the annual great 
outbreak. Thus the late cold weather and early hot season is the regular plague 
season in India, and there is a marked decrease as soon as the mean temperature 
rises to 85°F. The Bombay Commission associate this with their observation that 
the plague baciUus flourishes less well in the rat flea at this high temperature, and 
infection is less readily experimentally transmitted. They also find much less 
plague among rats in the quiescent season, during which time breeding among them 
is more rapid than at other periods, and thus a large number of young and sus- 
ceptible rodents accumulate among which the epizootic can rapidly spread at the 
beginning of the next plague season. Moreover, they foimd more fleas in the plague 
season and less in the months when plague was at its minimum both in Bombay and 
in the Punjab. 



\ 



THE ETIOLOGY OF PLAGUE 417 

The seasonal variations of plague can thus be readily explained in relation 
to the annually recurring epizootic among the rats, which ceases as a result of the 
death of a great many and acquired immunity of others, leaving but few susceptible 
at the end of the rat outbreak. Yet, owing to their enormous capacity for breeding, 
these pests once more afford suitable conditions for the recurrence of the disease 
at the most favourable period of the following year. 

THE SPREAD OF PLAGUE FROM PLACE TO PLACE.— It has been frequently 
suggested that plague may be carried from village to village by the migration of 
rats, but in the absence of reUable evidence of such an occurrence this is highly 
improbable, at any rata as an important method of extension of the disease. Rats 
may doubtless be carried by ship from one country to another, and if the plague 
is prevalent among them some of the infected animals might escape from the vessel 
and infect the port of arrival and measures are certainly necessary to prevent the 
possibility of such a calamity. Even in this case the disease is probably more 
frequently carried by the human host, or according to the Plague Commission by 
infected rat fleas carried by man. In the case of spread by land the disease is 
certainly mainly conveyed from place to place by persons infected going to uninfected 
areas during the incubation or early invasion stages. Frequently there is no im- 
mediate spread of the disease, especially if it is the season of decline of the epidemic, 
but subsequently rats begin to die of plague and an epidemic breaks out in the town 
or vi 



RECRUDESCENCE OF PLAGUE.— In large towns, such as Calcutta and 
Bombay, the intervals between the annual epidemics are bridged over by con- 
tinued infection of rats and to a much less extent of human beings. In small towns 
and villages, however, there is commonly no evidence of the continuation of the 
disease in either rodents or man for many months, yet there is a marked tendency 
for plague to recur in the same places year after year. The very important practi- 
cal question arises whether in the quiescent period plague only remains in the few 
towns where occasional cases continue throughout the year, and the next epidemic 
is due to re-importation from these few centres into numerous places from which 
the disease had completely died out ; or whether it really remains latent in a large 
number of places and recrudesces in them during the favourable season of the year. 
If the latter is the case the prevention of the yearly outbreaks is an infinitely more 
difficult procedure than if the disease persists in only a few places, where drastic 
measures for stamping it out in the long quiescent period would be advisable. 
This question has been most carefully studied in the Punjab by S. Browning-Smith, 
I.M.S., who has had over six years' experience of plague work, while in 1907-08 
a very special effort was made by him to obtain evidence on this important point. 
His results may be briefly summarized in the following table from his paper 
read before the Bombay Medical Congress. 



418 FEVERS IN THE TROPICS 

TABLE XL VII.— MODE OF RECURRENCE OF PLAGUE IN PUNJAB VILLAGES. 



i 



1. No interval 

2. Importation by human cases 

3. Importation by clothes, etc. 

4. Importation possible but indefinite 

5. Recrudescence .... 



Cases. 


Percentage. 


11 


40 


52 


18-8 


18 


6-5 


70 


25-2 


126 


45-5 



Many of the cases classed under 4 were probably examples of reci:udescence, 
but owing to plague being present in neighbouring villages it was impossible to 
absolutely exclude importation, so that well over 50 per cent, of the outbreaks 
were certainly due to recrudescence. The Bombay Commission investigated the 
conditions in two Punjab villages, but found no rats dying of plague for considerable 
periods, yet the disease recrudesced in one of them without their being able to trace 
any evidence of importation. They met with a few instances of chronic abscesses 
containing plague bacilli in rats, which may possibly be a factor in carrying on the 
infection over the long quiescent period. The heat in the Punjab is very great 
during the period of decline and quiescence of the disease, and certainly is an im- 
portant factor in causing the temporary disappearance of the disease. Recrudes- 
cence, then, is a very important and serious fact in connexion with the epidemiology 
of plague in the innumerable small towns and villages of the infected areas of India, 
although the usual manner of its recurrence is still very imperfectly understood. 



Index 



Abdomen in Kala-azar, 65 

in typhoid fever, 130 
Abortive typhoid fever, 125 
Abscess, tropical of liver. See Liver, 356 
African tick fever, 158 
Age-incidence of Kala-azar, 50 

of typhoid fever among Indian-bom 
Europeans, 111 
Alcohol and heatstroke, 289 

and tropical abscess of the liver, 359 
Amoeba-dysenterica, 361 

constancy of presence in tropical liver 
abscess, 361 
Amoebic hepatitis, 173, 349 

leucocytosis in, 183, 379 

pathology of pre-suppurative stage of, 184 

treatment of with ipecacuanha, 173, 349 
Anaemia in epidemic dropsy, 188, 401 

in Kala-azar, 67 

in malaria, 224 
Anchylostomes and Kala-azar, 36 
Annesley, James, views on fevers, 1828, 4 
Anopheles, destruction of, 237 
Arsenic, in malaria, 235 
Ascites in Kala-azar, 67 
Assam, topography of, 31 
Atoxyl in Kala-azar, 337 

Bactebiological examinations in plague, 260 
Bed-bugs, destruction of as a prophylactic 

measure against Kala-azar, 93, 335 
Benign tertian malaria, temperature curve in, 

213 
Benign tertian parasites, characters of, 221 
Bentley, epidemic Malta fever theory of 

Kala-azar, 38 
Burdwan fever, epidemic of, lower Bengal, 

1854^73, 44 
Blackwater fever, 229 

blood-changes in, 410 

distribution and relationship to malaria, 

408 
distribution of in the East, 229 



Blackwater fever, haemolysins, in, 410 

prophylaxis, 411 

recent work on, 408 

urine, in, 409 
Blood, coagulability of in Kala-azar, 75 

cultivation of typhoid bacilli from, 141 

in Malta fever, 167 

in yellow fever, 273 
Blood-changes in blackwater fever, 410 

in dengue, 248 

in influenza, 330 

in Kala-azar, 67 

in plague, 259 

in relapsing fever, 156 

in tropical liver abscess, 379 

in seven day fever, 311 

in sleeping sickness, 103 

in three day fever, 320 

in tropical liver abscess, 379 

in typhoid fever, 138 
Blood-films, preparing and staining of, 15 
Bowels in heatstroke, 294 

in Kala-azar, 64 

in malaria, 206 

in Malta fever, 167 

in relapsing fever, 153 

in sleeping sickness, 102 

in typhoid fever, 129 

in yellow fever, 273 
Breakbone pains in dengue, 244 
Bronchial signs in typhoid fever, 128 
Bryden, statistics of, on typhoid fever in 

India, 11 
Bubonic plague, 253 
Bugs and the infection of Kala-azar, 89 

Cachexia, malarial, 228 
Calcutta, epidemic dropsy in, 187 

prevalence of malarial fevers in, 196 
Cancnmi oris in Kala-azar, 76 
Carbuncles in plague, 256 
Carter, Vandyke, discovery of spirillum fever 
in India by, 12 



420 



INDEX 



Cerebral malaria, 226 
Cerebro-spinal fever in India, 323 

fluid in sleeping sickness, 104 
Chevers, Norman, commentary on diseases 

of India, 12 
Chicken-pox in the tropical East, 332 
Cinchona bark, use of by ships' surgeons, 1 
Circulatory system in epidemic dropsy, 188 

in Malta fever, 166 

in relapsing fever, 154 

in sleeping sickness, 101 
Cirrhosis of liver in Kala-azar, 67 
Clark, John, treatment of fevers in 1768, 2 
Clinical description of dengue, 244 

of heatstroke, 293 

of malarial fever, 204 
Clinical description of Malta fever, 164 

of plague, 253 

of seven day fever, 300 

of typhoid fever, 113 

of yellow fever, 268 
Cold applications in typhoid fever, 141 
Complications of Kala-azar, 75 

of malaria, 226 

of relapsing fever, 154 

of sleeping sickness, 102 

of typhoid fever, 132 
Continued fever in typhoid, 118 
Convulsions in heatstroke, 294 
Crisis in relapsing fever, 151 
Crombie, A., on unclassified tropical fevers, 

13 
Cultivation of bacteria from blood, 26 

Day, Francis, on fevers in Madras in 1859, 9 
Dengue, blood-changes in, 248 

breakbone pains in, 244 

clinical description of, 244 

diagnosis of, 248 

etiology of, 248 

history of in the East, 242 

joint symptoms in, 244 

pulse in, 247 

racial incidence of, 244 

rashes in, 247 

seasonal incidence of, 244 

temperature curve in, 245 
Diagnosis, differential, in Kala-azar, 77 

of dengue, 248 

of early stages of Kala-azar, 78 

of malaria, 235 

of relapsing fever, 156 

of seven day fever, 315 



Diagnosis of sleeping sickness, 105 

of trypanosomiasis in early stage, 106 

of yellow fever, 275 

value of eosinophile leucocyte increase, 22 
Diagnostic value of leucocytosis, 23 
Diarrhoea in epidemic dropsy, 188 
Diazo reaction in typhoid, 131 

method of carrying out, 132 
Differential leucocyte count, 20 
Diphtheria in tropical East, 333 
Distribution of heatstroke in India, 289 

of Malta fever in the East, 163 

of relapsing fever, 150 

of sporadic Kala-azar in India, 52 
Double continued fever, 194 
Dropsy, epidemic, 186 
Duration of malarial fevers after taking 

quinine, 217 
Dysentery in Kala-azar, 77 

tropical liver abscess, 363 



Emaciation in Kala-azar, 46 
Endemic index of malaria, 201 
Eosinophile leucocytes, increase of, 23 
Epidemic dropsy, 186 • 

anaemia in, 188 

blood changes in, 400 

circulatory system in, 188 

diarrhoea in, 188 

etiology, 402 

fever in, 187 

incidence of, 187 

infective theory, 403 

mortality in, 189, 402 

mouldy grain theory, 403 

nervous system in, 409 

rash in, 188 

recent outbreaks of, 399 

respiratory system in, 399 
Epistaxis in Malta fever, 166 
Etiology of dengue, 248 

of heatstroke, 282 

of plague, 261 

of sleeping sickness, 106 

of trypanosomiasis, 106 

of yellow fever, 276 
Evacuation of houses during plague, 263 
Ewart, Joseph, first recognition of typhoid 

in natives of India, 10 
Examination of blood-films in fever cases, 17 
Exanthematous disease in the tropical East, 
330 



INDEX 



421 



Family incidence of Kala-azar, 49 

Fayrer, Sir Joseph, Croonian lectures on 

climatic fevers of India, 12 
Fever, blackwater, 229, 408 
double continued, 194 
double remittent type of in Kala-azar, 55 
duration of in typhoid, 114 
in epidemic dropsy, 187 
low, of Europeans in tropics, 193 
mild form, due to heat, 298 
the insidious congestive of the cold 

season (Twining), 6 
types of, in Kala-azar, 53 
types of, in Malta fever, 164 
Fevers, examination of blood-films in malarial, 
219 
technique of the examination of the 

blood in, 15 
unclassified long, 190, 404 
unclassified short, 300 
Fleas and plague, 261, 413 

Gabo hills, first description of Kala-azar in, 

32 
€reographical distribution of yellow fever, 266 
German measles in the tropical East, 332 
Giles, report on Kala-azar, 1890, 35 
Glossina palpalis, appearance, 338 

destruction of, 342 

distribution, 338, 339 

food of, 339 

removal of population from fly-areas, 343 

reproduction of, 338 
Goat's milk, infection of Malta fever through, 

170 
Goodeve, Edward, on typhoid fever in Cal- 
cutta, 1859, 11 
Ground water levels and malaria, 203 

Haemoglobin in Kala-azar, 68 
Haemorrhage in Kala-azar, 77 
in typhoid fever, 132 
in yellow fever, 272 
Halliday, protest against the* mercurial treat- 
ment of fevers, 1816, 3 
Hare, Edward, displacement of bleeding and 
mercury by quinine given during 
fever, 8 
Headache in Kala-azar, 64 
in malaria, 205 
in relapsing fever, 152 
in sleeping sickness, 100 



Heart in Kala-azar, 64 

in malaria, 206 

in typhoid fever, 128 
Heat, mild forms of fever due to, 298 
Heatstroke, age and sex incidence in, 289 

and alcohol, 289 

and elevation, 290 

bowels in, 294 

clinical description of, 293 

definition of, 282 

degrees of heat and moisture sissociated 
with, 285 

distribution of in India, 289 

etiology of, 282 

history of in India, 281 

hours of attacks, 288 

hyperpyrexia in, 294 

in relation to heat-waves, 291 

nomenclature of, 280 

onset of, 293 

predisposing causes of, 289 

prophylaxis of, 297 

pupils in, 294 

respiratory system in, 294 

rigidity and conwilsions in, 294 

seasonal incidence of, 284 

sickness in, 294 

time of treatment of in relation to 
prognosis, 294 

treatment of, 296 

unconsciousness in, 294 
Heat-waves and heatstroke, 291 
Hepatitis, amoebic, 173, 349 

duration of the curable, pre-suppurative 
stage of, 354 

further experience of ipecacuanha in, 349 
History of dengue in the East, 242 

of heafstroke in India, 281 

of Malta fever in the East, 161 

of plague in India, 250 

of sleeping sickness, 96 

of the progress of our knowledge of 
Indian fevers, 1 

of yellow fever, 266 
Hooping-cough in the tropical East, 332 
Hunter, William, treatment of fevers in 1809, 

2 
Hyperpyrexia in heatstroke, 294 

Icteric fever (relapsing fever), 155 
Incidence, age and sex, of malaria, 204 
of cerebro-spinal fever in India, 323 
of chicken-pox in the tropical East, 332 



422 



INDEX 



Incidence of diphtheria in the tropical East, 
333 

of epidemic dropsy, 187, 399 

of German measles in the tropical East, 
332 

of hooping-cough in the tropical East, 
332 

of measles in the tropical East, 331 

of mumps in the tropical East, 332 

of sleeping sickness, 96 

of trypanosomiasis, 97 

of typhoid fever amongst Europeans in 
India, 110 

of typhoid fever amongst natives in 
India, 109 

of typhus in the tropical East, 322 

of various specific fevers in the tropical 
East, 322 
Infection in Malta fever, 168 

in relapsing fever, 157 

mode of in yellow fever, 277 
Infectiousness of Kala-azar, 81 
Influenza, blood-changes in, 330 

chnical description of, 327 

diagnosis of, 330 

prevalence of in the East, 326 

seasonal prevalence of in Calcutta, 326 

temperature curve in, 328 
Inoculation against plague, 263 

against typhoid fever, 144 
Ipecacuanha, action of, 355 

duration of treatment, 355 

further experience of. 349 

in after-treatment of liver abscess, 393 

methods of administering, 354 

in treatment of amoebic hepatitis, 173, 
349 

Jaundice in relapsing fever, 154 

in yellow fever, 272 
Johnson, James, treatment of fevers by mer- 
cury and venesection, 3 
Joint symptoms in dengue, 244 

in Malta fever, 165 

Kala-azar, abdomen in, 65 
age incidence of, 50 

anaemia in, 67 * 

as a disease, 46 
ascites in, 67 
Bentley's epidemic, Malta fever theory 

of, 38 
blood-changes in, 67 



ELala-azar, bowels in, 64 
cancrum oris in, 76 
cirrhosis of Uver in, 67 
coagulability of blood in, 75 
Coley's fluid in, 337 
complications of, 75 
cultivation of parasites of, 85 
decline of epidemic in Assam, 37 
definition of, 46 

depopulation of Nowgong district by, 44 
differential diagnosis of, 77 
differential leucocyte count in, 71 
differentiation from chronic malaria, 77 
differentiation from typhoid and para- 
typhoid, 78 
discovery of parasite of, 82 
distribution of parasite of in human body, 

83 
distribiition of sporadic forms of in India, 

52 
double remittent fever in, 56 
dropsy in, 46 
dysentery in, 77 
early stages, diagnosis of, 78 
effect of epidemic on fever death rate and 

population, 40 
effect of seasonal variations on prevalence 

and origin of the disease, 53 
eosinophiles in, 75 
family incidence of, 49 
general appearance in advanced stage of, 

46 
general symptoms in, 64 
haemoglobin in, 68 
haemorrhage in, 77 
headache in, 64 
heart in, 64 
illustrative cases of, 47 
in Algeria, 335 
in Europeans in Assam, probable mode 

of infection, 50 
infection in, 81 
in Sylhet, 38 
large mononuclear leucocyte increase 

in, 73 
leucopaenia in, an aid in diagnosis, 336 
liver in, 67 
lungs in, 64 
lymphocytes in, 75 
measures to check spread of in Assam, 

37 
number of leucocytes in, 69 
origin and course of Assam epidemic of, 31 



( 



I 



INDEX 



423 



Kala-azab, phthisis in, 77 
pigmentation in, 47 
pneumonia in, 76 

polynuclear leucocyte decrease in, 74 
prophylaxis of, 90 
quinine in, 79 
race incidence of, 51 
reduction of white corpuscles relatively 

to red in, 70 
rigors in, 64 

seasonal incidence of, 51 
septic conditions in, 76 
sex incidence of, 50 
sickness in, 64 
spleen in, 65 

sporadic form of in Sylhet, 49 
spread of in Assam, 33 
staphylococcus vaccine in, 336 
treatment of, 79 
types of fever in, 53 
village prophylaxis in, 92 



Leishma^, discovery of parasite of Kala- 
azar, 13 

Donovan body, discovery of, 82 

stain, 16 
Leishmania Donovani, 87 
Leucocyte coimt, differential, in Kala-azar, 71 
Leucocytes, classification of, 20 

differential count of, 20 

differential count of in malaria, 225 

enumeration of, 19 

eosinophiles in Kala-azar, 75 

in malaxia, 225 

in plague, 259 

in sleeping sickness, 103 

in typhoid fever, 140 

large mononuclear, increase of, .23 

number of, in Kala-azar, 69 

prelimintuy survey of, 17 

reduction of relatively to red corpuscles 
in Kala-azar, 70, 335 
Leucocytosis, absence of in pneumonia com- 
plicating Kala-azar, 76 

diagnostic value of, 23 

in amoebic hepatitis, 183, 379 

in relapsing fever, 156 
Lind, James, treatment of fevers in 1766, 2 
Liver in Kala-azar, 67 

in malEkria, 207 

in Malta fever, 167 

in relapsing fever, 163 



Liver, in sleeping sickness, 101 
in typhoid fever, 131 
Tropical abscess of, 356 
alcohol as a cause of, 359 
blood-changes in, 379 
causes of death in, 381 
constancy of the presence of amoebeie in, 

361 
diagnostic, physical signs of, 373 
etiology, 360 
forms of, 356 

geographical distribution of, 357 
insidious chronic abscess, 378 
large abscesses of the right lobe, 370 
mortaUty in, 382 
pathological anatomy of, 366 
peri-hepatic abscesses, 371 
predisposing causes, 357 
prognosis in, 384 
race incidence, 357 
relationship of to dysentery, 363 
relative frequency of single and multiple, 

367 
sex incidence, 357 
steriUty of, 362 
symptoms, duration of, 376 
symptoms of, 372 
X-rays, diagnostic value in, 380 
treatment of, 385 

after-treatment, ipecacuanha in, 393 
Hanson's method, 383 
open operation, 385 
the author's method, 388 
cases treated by, 390 
without drainage, 394 
Lowenthal's reaction in relapsing fever, 156 
Low fever, of Europeans in the tropics, 193 
Lungs in Kala-azar, 64 
in malaria, 206 
in typhoid fever, 128 
Ljmaphatic gland puncture in sleeping sick- 
ness, 105 
Lymphatic glands in sleeping sickness, 101 

in trypanosomiasis, 101 
Lymphocytes in Kala-azar, 75 
Lymphocytosis in plague, 259 

MACKINNON, Kenneth, diseases of Bengal and 

North-west Provinces, 8 
Maclean, lectures on diseases of tropical 

climates, 12 
Mahamari, 250 



424 



INDEX 



Malaria, age and sex incidence of, 204 

anaemia in, 224 

and ground water levels, 203 

bowels in, 206 

cerebral, 226 

chronic, differentiation from Kala-azar, 
77 

clinical description of, 204 

complications of, 226 

differential diagnosis of, 235 

differential leucocyte count in, 225 

endemic index of, 201 

headache in, 205 

heart in, 206 

leucocytes in, 224 

liver in, 207 

Ivmgs in, 206 

mortality from in India, 200 

mosquito protection in prophylaxis of, 
238 

parasites of, 219 

predisposing causes of, 203 

prevalence of in India, 196 

prophylaxis of, 236 

quartan, incidence of in India, 199 

quotidian, 211 

race incidence and acquired immunity 
in, 203 

recrudescences and relapses in, 213 

rigors in, 205 

sickness in, 206 

spleen in, 207 

spleen-test for, 202 

temperature curves in, 207 

tongue in, 206 

urine in, 207 
Malarial cachexia, 228 
Malarial fevers, 197 

treatment of, 230 
Malarial parasites, characters of different 
forms of, 221 

mosquito cycle of, 223 

search for, 18 
Malignant tertian malaria, duration of par- 
oxysms in, 212 

low intermittent fever in, 212 

temperature curve in, 208 
Malignant tertian parasites, characters of, 

222 
Malta fever (or undulant fever), 161 

bowels in, 167 

circulatory system in, 166 

clinical description of, 164 



Malta fever, cultivation of micrococcus from 
blood in, 168 

differentiation of in India, 161 

distribution of in the East, 163 

epistaxis in, 166 

history of in the East, 161 

infection in, 168 

infection through goats' milk in, 170 

joint symptoms in, 165 

Uver in, 167 

orchitis in, 167 

prophylaxis of, 168 

respiratory system in, 166 

seasonal incidence of, 168 

spleen in, 166 

the blood in, 167 

types of fever in, 164 

urine in, 167 

Widal serum test in, 167 
Martin, Sir James Ranald, views on fever, 7 
Meeisles, in the tropical East, 331 
Micrococcus melitensis, cultivation of from 
the blood in Malta fever, 168 

occurrence of outside the body, 169 
Morehead, Charles, on fevers in Bombay, 

1860, 10 
Mortality from malaria in India, 200 
MortaUty, in epidemic dropsy, 189, 402 

in relapsing fever, 156 

in typhoid fever in India, 134 

in yellow fever, 274 
Mosquito curtain, use of, 238 
Mosquito cycle of malarial parasites, 223 
Mosquitoes and yellow fever, 277 
Mumps in the tropical East, 332 

NoN-MAiiARiAii remittent fever, 190 

Obohitis in Malta fever, 167 

Pains in relapsing fever, 153 

in yellow fever, 270 
Parasite of Kala-azar, conditions affecting 
development of, 87 

cultivation of, 85 

distribution of in human body, 83 

feeding experiments with, 87 

flagellated stage of, 85 
Parasites of malaria, 219 
Paratyphoid, 145 

Pathology of yellow fever, 274 
Perforation of intestine in typhoid fever, 134 
Periostitis in typhoid fever, 134 



I 



INDEX 



425 



Pestis minor, 256 

Phthisis in Kala-azar, 77 

Pigmentation in Kala-azar, 47 

Piroplasmosis, 320 

Plague, bacteriological examinations in, 260 

blood-changes in, 259 

bubonic, 253 

clinical description of, 253 

epidemiology of, 414 

etiology of, 261 

evacuation of houses during, 263 

history of in India, 250 

house incidence of, 252 

infection through fleas, 413 

influence of climate on, 252 

inoculation against, 263 

leucocytes in, 259 

lymphocytosis in, 259 

outbreak in Bombay, 1896, 251 

pneumonic, 258 

primary lesions of, 256 

prophylaxis of, 263 

pulse in, 253 

rat destruction in, 264 

recrudescence of, 417 

relationship of to rats, 252 

spread to rat infection, 414 

seasonal incidence of, 252, 416 

septicaemic form of, 257 

species of rats and plague, 415 

spleen in, 254 

temperattire curve in, 255 

tongue in, 253 

treatment of, 258 
Pneumonia complicating typhoid fever, 128 

in Kala-azar, 76 
Pneumonic plague, 258 
Predisposing causes of heatstroke, 289 

of malaria, 203 
Price, Dr. Dodds, on the prophylaxis of 

Kala-azar, 91 
Prodromal symptom in yellow fever, 269 
Prophylaxis of heartstroke, 297 

of Kala-azar, 90 

of malaria, 236 

of Malta fever, 168 

of plague, 263 

of relapsing fever, 157 

of sleeping sickness, 108, 342 
Pulse in dengue, 247 

in plague, 253 

in seven day fever, 303 

in typhoid fever, 126 



Pulse in yellow fever, 272 
Pupils in heatstroke, 294 

Quartan malaria, incidence of, in India, 199 
Quartan parasites, characters of, 221 
Quartans, temperature curves in, 216 
Quinine as a prophylactic in malaria, 238 

duration of Malta fever after taking, 217 

hour of administration of in malaria, 231 

hypodermically, 232 

intravenous injection of, 233 

mode of administration of, 232 

rectal administration of, 234 

value of in Kala-azar, 79 
Quotidian maUgnant tertian malaria, 211 

Race incidence, in amoebic abscess of the liver, 
358 

in blackwater fever, 408 
in dengue, 244 

in Kala-azar, 51 

in yellow fever, 276 
Rash in epidemic dropsy, 188 

in relapsing fever, 154 
Rashes in dengue, 247 
Rats, destruction of in plague, 264 

relationship of to plague, 252, 414 

species of, 415 
Recrudescences and relapses in malaria, 213 

in plague, 417 

in typhoid fever, 122 
Red corpuscles, enumeration of, 19 
Relapsing fever, 149 

apyretic intervals in, 151 

blood-changes in, 156 

bowels in, 153 

circulatory system in, 154 

clinical description of, 151 

complications of, 154 

crisis in, 151 

diagnosis of, 156 

distribution of, 150 

epigastric tenderness in, 153 

headache in, 152 

history of in the East, 149 

infection in, 157 

in India, 150 

jaundice in, 154 

leucocytosis in, 156 

liver in, 153 

Lowenthal's reaction in, 166 

mortaUty of, 156 

pfiins in, 153 



426 



INDEX 



Relapsing fever, prophylaxis of, 157 

rash in, 154 

relapse in, 152 

respiratory system in, 154 

spirillum obermeieri in, 156 

spleen in, 153 

sweats in, 153 

temperature curve in, 151 

longue in, 153 

treatment of, 157 

urine in, 154 
Remittent fever, non-malarial, 190 
Respiratory system in epidemic dropsy, 399 

in heatstroke, 294 

in Malta fever, 166 

in relapsing fever, 154 

in sleeping sickness, 101 
Rheumatic fever in the East, 330 

in the tropics, 330 
Rigors in Kala-azar, 64 

in malaria, 205 
Romanosky stain, 16 
Ross, Ronald, views on Kala-azar, 1899, 37 

work on mosquito theory of malaria, 12 
Ross's thick film method, 17 

ScAKLET fever in India, 331 

Scriven, first recognition of typhoid fever in 

India, 10 
Seasonal incidence of dengue, 244 

of heatstroke, 284 

of Kala-azar, 51 

of Malta fever, 168 

of plague, 252, 416 

of seven day fever, 314 

of typhoid fever in India, 112 

of yellow fever, 276 
Seasonal variations, effects of on prevalence 

and origin of Kala-azar, 53 
Segregation in prophylaxis of malaria, 239 
Septicaemic plague, 257 
Septic conditions in Kala-azar, 76 
Serum tests for typhoid and Malta fevers, 24 
Seven day fever, blood-changes in, 311 

clinical description of, 301 

diagnosis of, 315 

differentiation of from dengue, 316 

distribution of in India, 317 

pulse in, 303 

seasonal incidence of, 314 

temperature curve of, 303 
Sex incidence of Kala-azar, 50 

of plague, 252 



Sickness in heatstroke, 294 

in Kala-azar, 64 

in malaria, 206 

in typhoid fever, 129 ^ 

in yellow fever, 273 
Siriasis. See " Heatstroke," 280 
Skin in yellow fever, 270 
Sleeping sickness, blood-changes in, 103 

atoxyl in, 346 

atoxyl and mercury in, 347 

bowels in, 102 

carrier of, 340 

cerebro-spinal fluid in, 104 

cerebro-spinal infection in, 99 

circulatory system in, 101 

complications of, 102 

destruction of the parasite in human 
blood, 343 

diagnosis of, 105 

etiology of, 106 

headache in, 100 

history and distribution of, 96 

leucocytes in, 103 

liver in, 101 

lymphatic gland puncture in, 105 

lymphatic glands in, 101 

mental condition in, 100 

prevention of spread to new areas, 344 

prophylaxis, of, 108 

removal of the population from fly-areas, 
343 

resistant strains of parasite produced 
under treatment, 346 

respiratory system in, 101 

spleen in, 101 

temperature curve in, 100 

treatment of, 106, 345 

tremor in, 100 

trypanosome in, 103 
Small-pox in India, 332 
Soamin in Kala-azar, 337 
Spirillum obermeieri in relapsing fever, 156 
Spleen diseases, description of by Twining 

in 1835, 6 
Spleen in Kala-azar, 65 

in malaria, 207 

in Malta fever, 166 

in plague, 254 

in relapsing fever, 153 

in sleeping sickness, 101 

in typhoid fever, 131 
Spleen-puncture in 1835 (Twining), 7 

technique of, 28 



INDEX 



427 



Spleen-test for malaria, 202 
Staphylococcus vaccine in Kala-azar, 336 
Sunstroke, 280 
Sweats in relapsing fever, 153 

Tecjhnique of examination of blood in fevers, 
15 

of serum tests for typhoid and Malta 
fevers, 24 

of spleen puncture, 28 

of vein puncture, 27 
Temperature curve in benign tertian malaria, 
213 

in dengue, 245 

in influenza 328 

in malaria, 207 

in plague, 255 

in quartans, 216 

in relapsing fever, 151 

in seven day fever, 303 

in sleeping sickness, 100 

in three day fever, 318 

in typhoid fever, 116 

in yellow fever, 270 
Ten day pigmentary fever of Bengal, 320 
Three day fever, 318 

blood-changes in, 320 

temperature curve in, 318 
Thrombosis in typhoid fever, 133 
Tick fever, African, 158 
Tongue in malaria, 206 

in plague, 253 

in relapsing fever, 153 

in typhoid fever, 129 
Treatment of heatstroke, 296 

of Kala-azar, 79, 336 

of malarial fevers, 230 

of plague, 258 

of sleeping sickness, 106, 345 

of trypanosomiasis, 106 

of typhoid fever, 141 

of yellow fever, 275 
Tropical liver abscess. See " Liver," 356 
Trypanosome of sleeping sickness, 103, 340 

development of tsetse flies, 340 

destruction of the parasite in human blood, 
343 
Trypanosomiasis and sleeping sickness, 96, 
340 

carrier of infection, 338 

clinical description of, 98 

cultivation on artificial media, 341 

diagnosis of in early stages, 105 



Trypanosomiasis and sleeping sickness, early 
stage of, 99 
etiology of, 106 
incidence of, 107 
lymphatic glands in, 101 
prophylaxis of, 342 
treatment of, 106, 345 
Twining, William, cleissification of fevers, 

1835, 5 
Typhoid bacilli, cultivation of from the blood, 

141 
Typhoid fever, abdomen in, 130 

age incidence of amongst Indian-born 

Europeans, 111 
blood-changes in, 138 
bowels in, 129 
bronchial signs in, 128 
clinical description of, 113 
cold applications in, 141 
complications of, 132 
continued fever in, 118 
diazo reaction in, 131 
differentiation of from early Kala-azar, 78 
duration of fever in, 114 
first differentiation of in India by Scriven, 

10 
general appearance in, 126 
heart in, 128 
history of onset and prodromal symptoms 

in, 126 
haemorrhage in, 132 
incidence amongst Europeans in India, 

110 
incidence amongst natives of India, 109 
in natives of India, clinical features of, 

136 
in natives of India, first recognition by 

Joseph Ewart, 10 
inoculation against, 144 
leucocytes in, 140 
liver in, 131 
lungs in, 128 

mild remittent and abortive, 122 
mortality of in India, 134 
perforation of intestine in, 134 
periostitis in, 134 
pulse in, 126 

recrudescences and relapses in, 122 
seasonal incidence of in India, 112 
sickness in, 129 
spleen in, 131 
temperature curve in, 116 
thrombosis in, 133 



428 



INDEX 



Typhoid fever, tongue in, 129 

treatment of, 141 
Typhoid fever, urine in, 131 

Widal test in, 138 
Typhus in the tropical East, 322 

Unclassified long fevers, 190 
cured by vaccine, 405 
fevers, due to bacillus coU, 405 

characters of the urine in, 406 
treatment of, 407 
type of, 405 
fever with joint complications, caused 

by coccus, 404 
short fevers, 300 
Unconsciousness in heatstroke, 294 
Urine in blackwater fever, 409 
in malaria, 207 
in Malta fever, 167 
in relapsing fever, 154 
in typhoid fever, 131 
in yellow fever, 274 

Vein pixncture, 27 

White corpuscles. See Leucocytes 
Widal test in Malta fever, 168 

in typhoid fever, 138 

macroscopical, 26 



Wright, Sir A. E., influence of on recent 
research work on tropical diseases, 12 

Yellow fever and mosquitoes, 277 

blood in, 273 

bowels in, 273 
Yellow fever, clinical description of, 268 

diagnosis of, 275 

etiology of, 276 

general appearance in, 270 

general course of, 268 

geographical distribution of, 266 

haemorrhage in, 272 

history of, 266 

jaundice in, 272 

mode of infection in, 277 

morbid anatomy of, 274 

mortaUty in, 274 

pains in, 270 

prodromal symptoms in, 269 

pulse in, 272 

race incidence in, 276 

seasonal incidence in, 276 

sickness in, 273 

skin in, 270 

sweats in, 270 -^ 

temperature curve in, 270 

treatment of, 275 

urine in, 274 
Yempyeng of Corea, 320 



Sui/er and Tanner The Selwood Printing IVorks Frame and London 



I 



^ 



a 



University of Toronto 
Library 



S 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



