Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



WHAT 




alem JBameisi 



COOKED 



J 



WHAT 

COOKED 



Being A Choice ColUSHon of Recipes wherein is shewn how 
The Delectablb Practice of the SALEM DAMES 
from the jrear 1683,10 1730, until 1800 and 1900, may be 
restored with pleasure to those desirous of experiencing 
The Delights of their Cookery, together with A Few 
Housekeeping Hints and Numerous Appropriate ^^tations. 



Printed ^Th^ Stetson Press 0/*Boston,^ /iiif 

C£(tfier C iHack Snbasitnal ^cliool 

Salbu, Massachusetts 
I9II 



' f r 






\ L r 



v/ 




»* ( { X-' *.', . 



«. * 



6 V/, 6 / 

^7? 



^tr 



COPYRIGHT I9IO BY THB BOARD OP MANAGERS OP 
THE ESTHER C. MACK INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL^ SALEM 



CONTENTS 



"Wgit Comqpleat Coofe'si ^vM" 

1683 



OR 

Complete Woman Cook 

WHEREIN 

The Art of Dressing all sorts of Viands 

with Cleanliness, Decency and 

Elegance is Explained" 

1730 



0m 6xw(iaxmi^tx€ Coofe fBooiuBi 

1800 



(^ur (^trm Cooit Pooto 

1900 



FROM 
44' " 



1683 

ji Bill of Fare for Midfomer 

Firft Courfe Second Courfe 

1. ANeats-tongueandCoIliflowers 1. An Ardchoak Pye 

2. A Fore Quarter of Lamb 2. A Vcnifon Pafty 

3. A Chicken-Pye 3. Lobfters and Salmon 

4. Boylee Pigeons 4. A Difh of Peafe 

5. A couple of Stewed Rabbits S. A Gooieberry-Tart 

6. A Brcaft of Veal Roafted 6. A Difh of Strawberries 



To Make a Chicken-Pye 

AFTER you have Truft your chickens, then break their 
iLlL Legs and Breaft-bones, and raife your cruft of the beft 
Pafte, lay them in a Coffin clofe together^ with their bodies 
full of butter, then lay upon and underneath them, Currans, 
great Raifins, Pruans, Cinnamon, Sugar, whole Mace and 
Sugar, whole Mace and Salt; then cover all with good ftore 
of butter, and fo bake it ; then pour into it white-wine, rofe- 
water, fugar, cinnamon, and vinegar mixt together, with 
Yolks of two or three Eggs beaten amongft it, and fo ferve it. 



To Make a Hedg-Hog Pudding 

PUT fome Raifins of the Sun into a deep wooden Difh, 
and then take fome grated bread, and one pint of fweet 
Cream, three yolks of Eggs, with two of the whites, and 
fome Beef Suet, grated Nutmeg and Salt, then fweeten it 
with fugar, and temper it all well together, and fo lay it in- 
to the difh upon the Raifins, then tye a cloath about the difh, 
and boy] it in Beef-broath and when you take it up lay it 
in a pewter Difh, with the Raifins uppermoft, and then 




dat j^alem Bames( Cooikeb 



fdck blanched Almonds very thick upon the pudding, then 
melt fome butter and pour it upon the pudding, then ftrew 
fome fugar about the dif h, and ferve it. 



To Make a Pye with Pippins 

PARE your pippins, and cut out the cores, then make 
your Coffin of cruft, take a good handful of Quinces 
f liced and lay at the bottom, then lay your pippins a top, 
and fill the holes where the core was taken out with Syrup 
of Quinces, and put into every Pippin a piece of Orangado, 
then pour on the top Syrup of Quinces, then put in Sugar, 
and so clofe it up, let it be very well baked, for it will afk 
much foaking, efpecially the Quinces. 



To Make an Orangado Pye 

MAKE a handfome thin Coffin, with hot butter'd Pafte, 
flice fine Orangado, and put over the bottom of it, 
then take some pippins; and cut every one into eight parts, 
and lay them in also upon the Orangado, then pour fome 
fyrup of Orangado, and Sugar on the top, and fo make it 
up, and bake it and ferve it up with fugar fcraped on it. 

Typical Prices in early New England 



1632-1650 

4 eggs, Id. 
1 qt. milk. Id. 
1 lb. butter, 6d. 
1 qt. beer, 6d. 
1 lb. cheese, Sd. 
1 bu. corn, 6s. 
1 warming pan, Ss. 6d. 
1 pair spectacles, 2s. 
1 psur andirons, 10s. 
Apples, 6 to 8s, bu. 
Beef, 3d. lb. 
Pork, 4d. lb. 

m 



1700 

Salmon, Id. lb. 
Cider, 6 to 7s. gal. 
Turnips, Is. 3d. bu. 
Apples, 10s. bu. 
Cmnamon, 14s. lb. 
Cloves, 20s. lb. 
Nutmegs, 20s. lb. 
Bohea tea, 2Ss. lb. 
Snuff, 16s. lb. 
Molasses, 13d. gal. 
N. E. rum, 4s. 1 Od. gal. 
Butter, 18d. lb. 



1740 

"Butcher's meat: 
beef, mutton, lamb, 
veal, averaged 2d. a 
lb. ; the very best,6d ; 
turkeys, 2s. ; a twelve 
pouna cod, 2d.; sal- 
mon about Id. a lb. ; 
large lobsters, 3 halif 
pence; butter, 3d. 
The diet of large 
towns and affluent 
people." 



FROM 

173^ 

To Make Good Wigs 

To four Pounds of fine Flower, take one Pound of good 
Butter, half a Pound of fine Sugar, a handful of Carra- 
way Comfits or Seeds, and a little Rose- Water; work it up 
with a Pint of good Ale-yeast strained and as much milk as 
will wet them warmed: put in some Ginger, and work them 
up light and set them in a warm Place to rise : make them 
in Bigness as you think fit, and bake them on Iron Plates 
in a quick Oven : they will be done in half a quarter of an 

Hour. ^z=zz=: 

To Carbonade a Breast of Mutton 

TAKE a breast of mutton, half bone it, knick it across. 
Season it with pepper and salt, then broil it before the 
fire whilst it be enough, Strinkling it over with bread crumbs: 
let the same be a little Gravy and butter and a few shred ca- 
pers : put it upon the dish with the mutton. Garnish it with 
horse-radish and pickles. This is proper for a side-dish at 
noon or a bottom dish at night. 

" Tm shall see first the large and chief 
FoundaHon ofyourfeasty fat beef; 
With upper storieSy mutton^ veal 
And bacfKHy which makes full the mealy 
With several dishes standing by 
Asy here a custardy there a pie 
And hercy all tempAngy frumenty. * * herrick 



Burnt Cream 

BOIL a stick of cinnamon in a pint of cream, four eggs 
well beat, leaving out the whites ; boil the cream and 

thicken it with the eggs as for a custard : then put it in your 

_ 



WHf^at ftalem Barnes; Cookeb 



dish and put over it half a pound of loaf sugar beat and seared: 
heat a fire-shovel red hot and hold it over the top till the 
sugar be brovtrn. So serve it up. 



For the Sick 

PANOLA, made in five minutes. Set a little water on 
the fire with a glass of white wine, some sugar and a 
scrape of nutmeg or lemon peel. Meanwhile grate some 
crumbs of bread ; the moment the mixture boils up keeping 
it still on the fire, put the crumbs in and let it boil as fast as 
it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink take it off. 



A Most Pleasant Drink 

PUT a teacupfull of cranberries into a cup of water and 
mash them. In the meantime boil 2 quarts and a pint 
of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a very large 
bit of lemon peel. Then add the cranberries and as much 
fine Lisbon sugar as shall leave a smart. 



Another 

As above, but instead of a glass of wine, put in a teaspoon- 
ful of rum and a bit of butter, sugar as above. This is 
a most pleasant mess ! ! 

Shrewsbury Cakes 

SIFT I pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a 
nutmeg grated widi three lbs. of flour, the finest sort; 
add a little rose-water to 3 eggs well beaten, and mix them 
with the flour, etc. ; then pour into it as much butter melted 
as will make it a good thickness and roll out. Mould it j 
well^ roll thin, cut into such shapes as you like. 



**&nali cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast. " 

COMEDY OF ERRORS 



[lOl 



FROM 



1800 



Cookery means the knowledge of Medea and of Circe and of Helen and ihe 
^ueen ofSheba. It means the knowledge of all herbs and fruits and balms 
and spicesy and all that is healing and sweet in the fields and groves and 
savory in meats. It means carejiilness and inventiveness and willingness and 
readiness of appliances. It means the economy of your grandmothers and the 
science of the modem chemist; it means much testing and no wasting; it 
means English thoroughness and French arty and Arabian hospitality; and 
in fine, it means that you are to be perfectly and always ladies — loaf givers. 



RUSKIN 



To Make a Trifle 

COVER the bottom of a dish or bowl with Naples bis- 
cuits broke in pieces^ macaroons in halves and ratafia 
cakes. Just wet them through with sack : then make a good 
boiled custard not too thick and when cold pour it over, 
then put a syllabub over that. You may garnish with ratafia 
cakeSy currant-jelly and flowers. 



Pound Cake 

I % lbs. sugar, i % lbs. flour, i lb. butter. Eggs same weight 
as sugar — a little nutmeg, mace. (s.?.) 



Darbyshire Pudding 

MIX gradually 2 tablespoons of flour with a pint of milk. 
Boil till thick, when cold add 3 oz. butter beaten to 
a cream — i ^ oz. sugar, rind of a lemon grated. Yolks of 5 * 
eggs, and whites of these, a little salt. Mix very thoroughly. 
Line a shallow dish with pastry and fill with the mixture. 
Bake in a quick oven. This is nicest eaten cold. mrs. devbrbux 



c< 



Now good digestion wait on appetite and health on both. ** 

8HAK8PBARB 
("1 



WSbat ftalem Barnes; Coofteb 



Apple Fritters 

PARE and core the apples, cut in slices ji of an inch thick, 
dip in batter and fry 6 minutes in boiling fat. For the 
Batter : i pt. flour, i pt. milk, i tablespoon butter, i teaspoon 
salt, 2 eggs. Beat the eggs light, add salt and milk to them, 
pour this mixture into the flour, beat until sniooth and soft. 
For Sauce : A heap of granulated sugar was placed on one 
plate and moistened with wine or cider. 

Meg Merrilies Pottage 

TAKE I partridge, i quail, i rabbit, 2 lbs. venison, 6 
cloves, 4 blades mace, small pinch cayenne and of black 
pepper, salt to taste, j4 wineglass lemon juice, 2 small onions, 
2 stalks celery, a little parsley, i very small carrot and pars- 
nip, a little marjoram, 4 potatoes cut thin and put in one hour 
before done ; the rest to be boiled all day. 



•*^// human histofj attests 
That happiness for man — the hungry sinner! — 
Since Eve ate apples y much depends on dinner. " byron 



White Currant Shrub 

STRIP the fruit and prepare in ajar as for jelly ; strain the 
juice, if white put two quarts to one gallon of rum and 
two pounds of lump sugar, strain through a jelly bag. (1807) 

Bannuch Cake 

TAKE 3 pints of milk scalded. 4 eggs — little salt with 
saleratus — as much fine Indian meal as will make a 
batter a little more stiff than for griddle cakes. Pour into 
pans or muffin rings, bake on a griddle. 



^*fFe may live without friends ^ we may live without books. 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks.** owen meredith 



[»] 



0vix iSranlmiotlitr'g Coofe goofe 

Corn Pone 

TAKE I pint corn meal, 2 eggs, dessert-spoonful of lard 
and a little salt. Pour enough boiling water on to melt 
the lardy then add sufficient milk to make it thin enough to 
make a smooth crust. Bake in little pans. 



MARY DONALDSON 



English Hunting Beef 

AROUND of beef weighing about 20 lbs. Take i oz. 
. of cloveSy I oz. allspice, 2 nutmegs, }^ lb. saltpetre^ 2 
teacups brown sugar, and 2 teacups salt. Let all these be re- 
duced to powder and mixed well together. Rub them very 
thoroughly into the beef, and last of all, rub in a teacupful 
of molasses. Turn and rub the beef thoroughly every day 
for 1 1 or 1 2 days. Before baking wash off the loose spice, 
and roll it in a crash roller, binding very tightly. Put it in 
a tin pan with a pint of cold water, and a little shred suet 
strewed over the top of the beef. Put paper over the beef 
and over the edge of the pan ; and upon this put a crust of 
rye meal and warm water laid loosely over the whole, par- 
ticularly over the edges to keep in the steam, and bake ; if 
in an iron oven about four hours. If a brick oven be used, 
it should be quite hot, and the beef kept in until the oven 
cools. When taken from the oven let the beef remain in the 
pan till cold. The gravy strained and bottled will keep some 
time, and is nice either with the beef or used to flavor beef- 
steak, or any stewed fish. Through the days when the beef 
is preparing for cooking, I generally keep it in a large brown 
. earthen pan, with another pan turned over it. A yard of 
crash, split into four and joined together, makes a roller 
sufficiently long. _______ 



MRS. GU8TAVU8 TUCKBRMAN 



Yellow Gingerbread 

2 lbs. flour, I ^ lbs. sugar, i }i lbs. butter, 5^ lb. yellow gin- 
ger after it is sifted, i wineglass of brandy. 



(131 



Wdat AsHtm 9ames( Cooiieti 



Zanzibar Gingerbread 

1 2 lbs. flour, 8 lbs. sugar, 6 lbs. butter, 1 8 eggs, }i pint rose- 
water, teacupful ginger, 6 teaspoons saleratus. 



**^te last piece of mother^s gingerbread Pi-day. " — item from seaman's diary 



Whip Syllabub 

I qt. cream, not very thick, i pt. sack, whites of 3 eggs, 
juice of 2 lemons, sweeten it to your taste. Put it in a broad 
earthen pan and with a whisk whip it up, and as the froth 
rises take it oflF with a spoon and put it into a sieve that the 
cream may run out. ——-___ 



c< 



If thou hast found a honey comb 

Jkat thou not ally but taste on some; 

For if thou eafst it to excess 

That sweetness turns to loathsomeness. 

Taste it to temper — then * twill be 

Marrow and manna unto thee.** herrick 



Wedding Cake 

10 lbs. sugar, ij^ lbs. butter, ()% lbs. flour, 7 dozen eggs, 

9 lbs. currants, 9 lbs. raisins, 9 lbs. almonds, 4 lbs. citron, 

% lb. nutmeg, % lb. cinnamon, i oz. mace, i oz. cloves, i 

pint brandy, i coffee cup molasses, 9 drops oil of lemon. 

MRS. H. GODDARD 



Election Cake 

6 lbs. flour, 2 lbs. sugar, i lb. butter, 1 2 eggs, i quart of 
milk, I pint of yeast, mace. (g. p.) saltonstall 

Salem Pudding 

3 cups flour, I cup milk, i cup molasses, i cup chopped 
suet, I cup raisins chopped fine, ]4 teaspoon saleratus or i 
teaspoon soda put into the molasses. Boil in a pudding boiler 
four to five hours. 



ti4] 



0nv #ranlimotiier'2( Coofe ?Boo& 



Molly Saunders' Gingerbread 

10WER SHELF : 3>^ lbs. flour, i lb. butter, }i pt. milk, 
J I qt. molasses, 2 teaspoons saleratus, 2 tablespoons gin- 
ger. Make one day and bake the next. 
Upper Shelf : 2 lbs. flour, }i lb. butter, 3 eggs, % lb. sugar, 
I nutmeg, }i cup milk, i teaspoon saleratus. Add flour lastly 
and it will not usually require the full amount. Make one 
day and bake the next. 

Jennie Dean's Heart-Cakes 

TAKE I teacup sifted sugar, i teacup butter, i teaspoon 
cream, ^ teaspoon soda, i egg beaten light, and a little 
nutmeg. Flavor with extract of rose. Only sufiicent flour to 
roll out the cakes very thin. Cut in hearts and bake. 



To feed were best at home; 

From thence^ the sauce to meat is ceremony; 

Meeting were bare without it.** 



MACBETH 



Yule Cake 

Take i Ib. butter^ I lb. sugar, i % lb. flour, 2 lbs. cur- 
rants, ^ lb. citron, i lb. raisins, %, lb. orange and lemon 
peel (candied), 2 oz. almonds, %, oz. allspice, % oz. cinna- 
mon, 10 eggs, mace, nutmeg, clove. Melt the butter to a 
cream, beat in the sugar until light, adding the spices. In a 
quarter of an hour separate the eggs and work in yolks two 
at a time. Beat the whites to a stifle froth previously and add 
gradually to the mixture, which must not stand long enough 
to chill the butter else it will be heavy. Add to this the fruit 
and almonds, then the sifted flour and a glass of brandy. If 
baked in one cake it should be cooked slowly in a moderate 
oven about three hours. 



« 



Nearer as they camCy a genial savour 

Of certain stews and roast meats andpilans, 

Things which in hungry mortals eyes jind favour.** 



BTRON 



CI5] 



f 



VHfiat talent Sames( Coofeeb 



Squash Pudding 

I qt. fine squash, i qt. milk or cream, 1 6 eggs, i lb. butter, 
I y^ lbs. sugar, 2 nutmegs, 4 spoonfuls rose water, 2 to 4 
groat biscuit. ______ 



MRS. DEVEREUX 



Loaf Cake 

2 lbs. flour, I lb. sugar, ^ lb. butter, 6 eggs, i gill of wine, 
spice to your taste. miss lydia lewis (1808) 

Johnny Cake 

I pint Indian meal, i cup flour stirred together; i pint of 
sour milk, into which put i teaspoon soda, i egg, little sugar, 
salt. ==== 

Mrs. Hoffman's Cakes 

25^ lbs. flour, I lb. sugar, i lb. butter, i cup milk, 2 eggs, i 
tablespoon rose water, i teaspoon saleratus dissolved in little 
warm water, ij^ teaspoon ginger. 



*^Comey Anthea^ let us two 
Go to feastj as others do — 
Tarts and custards^ creams and cakes 
Are the junkets still at wakes. '* 



HERRICK 



Rose Cake 

% lb. sugar, ^ lb. butter, 4 eggs, a little rose water, i lb. 
flour; spread with a knife as thin as possible on tins, bake a 
very light color, mark it in squares immediately on taking it 
out of the oven, . a rantoul rule 

Rice Cake 

I lb. sugar, ^ lb. ground rice, 13 eggs, leaving out 4 of the 
whites, I spoonful salt, peel and juice of one lemon. 



MRS. JOHONNOT 



Citf] 



0nx <Sranlrmotiier'2( Coofe JBook 



Spring Chicken zy/zA Cream Sauce 

GUT up the chickens, roll in flour, pepper and salt them. 
Fry brown in boiling lard. When done thoroughly, take 
out and throw a little parsley in the pan to fry. Pour oflF all 
the lard, leaving all the parsley in the spider. One pint of 
sweet cream, salt and pepper it, and let it boil up. Pour over 
the chicken and save some to send to the table in a boat. 

MRS. DONALDSON OF BALTIMORE 



A CvRRY from London "Punch*' 

THREE pounds of veal my darling girl prepares 
And chops it nicely into little squares. 
Five onions next prepared the little minx^ 
The biggest are the best her Samivel thinks. 
And Epping butter nearly half a pound 
And stews them in a pan until they're browned. 
What next my dexterous little girl will do? 
She pops the meat into the savory stew 
With curry powder tablespoonfuls three 
And milk a pint, the richest that may be. 
And when the dish has stewed for half an hour 
A lemon's ready juice she'll o'er it pour. 
Then, bless her — then she gives the luscious pot 
A very gentle boil, and serves quite hot. (18 lo) 



Regent Sauce 

I qt. vinegar, 6 eschalots or 2 onions, 6 cloves pounded 
small, 4 tablespoons best mushroom catsup, 4 tablespoons 
soy, I tablespoon cayenne pepper. To stand ten days, shaking 
the bottle occasionally. _______ 

Batter Pudding 

I quart milk, 5 eggs, 8 tablespoons flour, a little salt. Boil it 
in a pudding pan or boiler. Eat with boiled molasses sauce 
to which is added a little butter and vinegar. 

[X7) 



r 



Wi^at talent Barnes; Cookeb 



Mexican Tongue zvitb Sauce 

BOIL tongue until very tender, then skin, return to the 
water in which it has been boiled and let cool. Sauce: 
I cup sugar, i cup vinegar, i cup raisins stoned and halved, 
I lemon cut in dice form, 2 dozen whole cloves. When the 
tongue is cold put into a large pan and flour as for roasting. 
Pour sauce into the pan with tongue and cook half an hour, 
basting with the sauce three or four times. 



**Some hoe meat and canna eat 
And some hoe nane that want it. 
But we hae meat and we can eat, 
Sae let the Lnrd be thanldt^ 



ROBERT BURNS 



Muffins 

2 lbs. flour, I qt. of milk, piece of butter as large as an egg, 
4 teaspoons of yeast. Bake in a griddle or muffin rings. Do 
not cut them. == 

Sugar Gingerbread 

2 lbs. flour, i^ lbs. sugar, i lb. butter, 8 eggs, teacup full 
of ginger ; make it very thin. Scrape it and sift sugar over it 
before putting in the oven. 



MRS. LEVERETT SALTONSTALL 



Blanc Mange 

I qt. milk, i oz. isinglass dissolved in water sufficient to 
cover it. Sugar, spice, and rose-water to taste. Let it boil 
up once. Strain through a thick bag and pour into moulds. 
In hot weather increase the quantity of isinglass. 



MRS. DUDLEY PICKMAM 



Solid Syllabub 

Mix a quart of thick cream, i lb. loaf sugar, ^^ pint sweet 
wine in a deep pan. Put into it the peel and juice of three 
lemons, and beat or whisk it half an hour, then put it into 
glasses. 



MRS. LEVERETT SALTONSTALL 



[x8] 



0UX (Sranbmotder'g Coofe Poofe 

Mary Lynde Brown^sQoviO'ti AT lo'ii Pie 

ROLL out six thin layers of the very best paste the size of 
a pie plate. Bake separately. When ready to serve, fill 
between the layers with delicate apple sauce seasoned with 

butter and lemon. :=:^=:;:=:::::: 

^^Though we eat little flesh and drink no wine 
Yet let*s be merry: we* II have tea and toast; 
Custards for supper^ and a luckless host 
Of syllabubs ana jellies and mince pies 
Ana other such ladylike luxuries.** 



SHELLEY 



Pandowdy 

FILL a deep baking dish (old-fashioned bean pot) heaping 
full of sliced apples. Add i cup molasses, i cup sugar, i 
cup water, i teaspoon clove, i teaspoon cinnamon. Cover 
with a baking-powder biscuit crust, lapping it over the sides. 
Bake over night. In the morning cut the hard crust into the 
apple. Eat with cream or plain. 

Blueberry Pudding 

I egg, % cup molasses, % teaspoon salt, }i teaspoon soda, 
I }i cups berries. Flour enough to make batter a little stifFer 
than for pound cake. Steam i % hours. 



** The proof of the pudding is in the eating. 



99 



CERVANTES 



Mrs. Underwood's Fruit Cake 

TAKE 4 cups flour, 3 cups sugar, i }i cups butter, i cup 
milk, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons clove, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 
I nutmeg, i lb. raisins, i lb. currants, }i cup molasses, % lb. 
citron, }i teaspoon soda. Bake three or four hours in a mod- 
erate oven. Keeps good for six months. 

{fFhile eating the above ^ a guest at my grandmother's table was asked if he 
would have some breads when he replied^ ^^Noy thank you^ marm, Fm doing 
very well with this huckleberry gingerbread.**) 

[19] 



Wi^at talent 3Sames( Cooiieb 



Nimble Cake 

TAKE }4 lb. of butter or lard rubbed with i lb. of flour. 
Mix rather soft with milk and add salt. Bake on tin 
sheets and cut in squares. 



MRS. P. DEVEREUX 



**Nimble cake for supper! How that sounds! 
Go down to Mrs. Simon/ and get some hearts and rounds.' ' 

-— ^— ^_— -. MIS8 M. DALRYMPLE, I83O 

Bristol Bannocks 

2 cups Indian meal, i cup flour, i large tablespoon molasses, 
2 teaspoons baking powder. Mix well, add i egg and enough 
milk to soften. Drop from a spoon into very hot fat and £cy. 



Plum Pudding 

Take i % Ibs. bread (baker's), ^ lb. sugar, }4 lb. butter, 
1 1 gills milky 1 5 eggs, 2 lbs. stoned raisins, % lb. cur- 
rants, % lb. citron, 3 nutmegs, 2 glasses wine, teaspoonful 
saleratus dissolved in a little milk, salt to taste. The bread 
must have no crust. Grate all the bread. Put a layer of bread 
in the dish (having just buttered it), then a layer of butter 
cut up in small pieces, then a layer of raisins, currants and 
citron, till within two inches of the top of the dish. Take 
the sugar and eggs and beat up thoroughly with the milk; 
when well mixed add the nutmegs, wine, saleratus and salt 
to it. Then pour slowly into the dish, absorbing the bread 
gradually till all used up. Let it stand two or three hours 
before going into the oven. Bake about two hours. 
Sauce: To j4 gill wine, ^ gill rosewater, j4 lb. sugar, piece 
of butter as large as a good sized egg. Put it over a moder- 
ate fire and stir 1 5 minutes. When it has boiled up well, 
grate j4 nutmeg in the sauce boat and pour the sauce in. 
Four times this quantity will be needed for the pudding. 

MADAME PHILLIPS, I79O 



" One solid dish his week-day meal affords 
An added pudding solemnized the Lord's.' * 



I 

POPE ! 



[ao] 



FROM 



[D 



M 



iTH 



0m 0im Coofe Poofesi 

lOOO 



** Certainly,** replied the oracle, ^^ study the art of pleasing by dress and 
manner, and above all let all women, pretty and plain, married and single, 
study the art of cookery. If you are an artist in the kitchen, you will always 
be esteemed. Only be careful, in studying both arts, never to forget the great 
truth, that dinner precedes blandishments, and not blandishments, dinner.* ' 



ELIZABETH AND HER GERMAN GARDEN 



Strawberry Parfait 

™ TJOX of strawberries crushed and strained; add 1% cups of 
J3 sugar^ scant teaspoon of gelatine soaked in cold water 
or dissolved in a little hot water. Fold in % pint of whipped 
creaniy sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Put in mould and 
pack with equal proportions of salt and ice. Let stand three 
hours. rz=z= 

Cantaloupe Frappe 

SELECT 2 large, ripe cantaloupes. Cut in halves, remove 
the seeds and scrape out the pulp. Press the pulp through 
a sieve to remove stringy portions. Add i cup powdered 
sugar and % cup orange juice. Season with a pinch of salt. 
Soak a tablespoon of gelatine in %oiz cup of water, set over 
boiling water and stir until dissolved. Stir this into the can- 
taloupe mixture, and when cold freeze slowly. Serve in 
sherbet glasses. , 

Sponge Cake 

Weight of 6 eggs in sugar, weight of 3 eggs in flour, 
rind of i lemon and juice oiyi lemon. Beat yolks ten min- 
utes and whites till stiflF. 



MRS. WM. 8IL8BEB 



^^For a man seldom thinks with more earnestness of anything 
than he does of his dinner.** samuel johnson 



[Ml 



VHfiat talent JBamtn Coolieb 



Custard Souffle 

CREAM 2 tablespoons butter, add 2 tablespoons flour, 
pour on gradually i cup of hot milk. Cook eight min- 
utes in double boiler, stirring often. Separate the whites and 
yolks of 4 eggs. Put whites in ice chest. Beat yolks, add 
2 tablespoons sugar to first mixture and set away to cool. 
Half an hour before serving beat the whites very stiff and cut 
them in lightly. Bake in a buttered pudding dish in a mod- 
erate oven thirty minutes. Serve at once with a creamy sauce 
flavored with sherry or strawberry. 

Malaga Grape Salad 

MAKE a French dressing with mustard, a spoonful of 
Worcestershire Sauce and a spoonful of horse-radish, 
with a trifle of sugar added to the usual ingredients. Cut 
grapes, carefully removing the seeds. Fill lettuce leaves and 
pour over the dressing. Both salad and dressing should be 

ice-cold when served. ::=::=:=::=^ 

^*0h herbacious treat! 
*Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat^ 
Back to the world he^d turn his fleeting soul 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl. " sydney smith 

Jellied Pecan Salad 

To I pt. of lemon jelly, when nearly hard, add i cup of 
broken pecan meats; mold in wine glasses and serve on lettuce 
leaves with finely shaved green peppers and mayonnaise. 

^*To speak of salads in aught but the most reverential spirit were sacrilege.*^ 

B. R. PENNELL 

Peanut Soup 

I qt. milk, i qt. peanuts, i slice onion ; chop nuts very fine, 

put them with the onion in the milk, boil three-quarters of 

an hour, thicken with i teaspoon flour, small piece of butter, 

salt, and serve. 
_ 



] 



0nx 0\nn Cooik JBooks; 



Rice Curry— Zanzibar Curry 

MIX 2 tablespoons flour and 2 tablespoons curry powder 
with water enough to make it a paste. Put a pint of 
water in the fiying pan, add the flour, and boil until quite 
thick. Then add 2 spoonfuls of the gravy. Slice the meat, 
cold lamb, beef or chicken, with the fat taken off, and boil 
just enough to warm the meat. Slice two hard boiled eggs 
and put around the dish. 

Thin Sugar Gingerbread 

I cup butter, 2 cups sugar, a little soda in sugar, i teaspoon 
ginger, 3 eggs ; enough flour to roll out. Spread with knife 
on tins, and sprinkle sugar on just as it goes into the oven. 

MISS S. E. OSGOOD 



Turmeric Gingerbread 

2 cups sugar, ^ cup butter, i cup milk, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons 
cream tartar, i teaspoon soda, 2 large tablespoons turmeric 
ginger, 2}4 cups flour. «__^^__ 



A. L. A. 



Asparagus Soup 

To 3 cups of cooked asparagus (may use canned), add 2 
slices onion, ^ cup boiling water, i qt. chicken or veal 
broth, % cup butter, %, cup flour, }4 teaspoon of salt and 
paprika, 2 cups milk. Cook the first three ingredients until 
the water has nearly evaporated. Press through a sieve, add 
the broth. Make a white sauce of the remaining ingredients. 
When ready to serve, combine the two mixtures by gradually 
stirring the asparagus into the white sauce. 



Strawberry Ice Cream 

2 qts. of strawberries covered with 2 cups of sugar and left 
over night, or at least four or five hours. Mash and strain 
berries, then add i qt. of cream and freeze. 

[33] 



WO)at talent JBwmsi Cookeb 



Boiled Dressing y^r Cold Slaw 

BOIL }4 cup sugar, j4 teaspoon each of salt, mustard and 
pepper. Rub % cup of butter to a cream with i tea- 
spoon of flour, and pour the boiling vinegar on it. Cook 
five minutes, then pour it over a well-beaten egg. Mix this 
dressing while hot with one pint of shaved cabbage or a 
mixed vegetable salad. _______ 

Mince yj?r Pies 

TAKE lo lbs. of beef, which will make 4 lbs. when 
chopped, 3 lbs. suet, 4 lbs. apples, 2 lbs. citron, 4 lbs. 
brown sugar, 4 spoonfuls salt, 4 lbs. raisins, 4 lbs. currants ; 
pint of wine, gill of brandy, 5 nutmegs, i tablespoon clove, 
2 tablespoons cinnamon, 3 lemons. miss susan osgood 

Mint Jelly 

WASH 3 qts. of grapes, fully grown but entirely green, 
and put these over the fire with three pints of boiling 
water. Cook 1 5 minutes, breaking and mashing them with 
a wooden spoon; turn into a jelly bag and strain. Measure 
the juice and return it to the fire, adding sprigs of fi-eshly 
bruised spearmint ; boil for 20 minutes, skim, removing the 
mint, and for each cup of juice add i scant cup of sugar which 
has been made hot in the oven. Stir until it boils up, which 
will be almost instantly; remove any froth that rises and it 
is ready to pour into glasses. The color will be pale, greenish 
amber. A suspicion of coloring paste makes it a delicate mint 
green. This is especially choice to serve with lamb. 

Cranberry Punch 

COOK i^ qts. of cranberries in i}iqts. of water till they 
have popped. Then strain and add a syrup made by 
boiling 2 cups of sugar and i cup of water together i o min- 
utes and then adding the juice of 4 lemons. Dilute to taste. 

-_ - _ 



0UX (f^lun Cook JBookit 



Nantucket Scallops Chowder 

TAKE 4 medium sized potatoes^ 4 slices salt pork, j4 
small onion sliced, 3 pts. sweet milk, i qt. scallops ( if 
large cut in two or more pieces), 4 Marblehead hard crackers. 
Peel and slice potatoes, parboil in a little salted water until 
nearly soft. Place the pork and onion in a frying pan, cook 
until the onion is a deep, rich brown color ; remove scraps 
of pork and onion and place this gravy in a fairly large stew 
pan, and add a portion of the milk. When quite hot, add 
the potatoes ; cook a short time, then add the scallops, with 
a little salt, pepper, and a dash of good cayenne pepper; 
this latter is quite important. Mix a scant tablespoon of flour 
or corn starch in with a little cold milk ; add this to the 
chowder and cook a short time longer. Place the opened 
crackers in a tureen, having soaked them in cold water; pour 
the chowder over them and serve. 



** The chowder on the sand beach made 
Dipped by the hungry^ steaming hot, 
frith spoons of clam-shells from the pot.** whittib<i 



Currant Conserve 

5 qts. currants, 5 lbs. sugar, i qt. red raspberries ; juice of 6 
oranges and pulp and peel of one cut into small pieces, 2 lbs. 
seeded raisins. Put all together and boil very slowly until it 

jellies. ===== 

Cranberry Pudding 

Cream ^ cup of butter, add slowly i cup sugar, 3 eggs well 
beaten; 2 teaspoons cream tartar sifted into 3^ cups flour. 
Add to the first mixture i cup milk, i teaspoon soda. Stir 
in lightly 2 cups cranberries and steam two hours. To be 
served with any sweet sauce. 



^^He who is not conscious of pleasure when he eats is not worthy to sit at 
table with the elect** e. r. pennbll 

(ssi 




Welsh Rarebit 

TAKE I teaspoon butter^ %^^yi 1^* cheese cut in small 
pieces, % teaspoon salt, % teaspoon mustard, few grains 
cayenne, ^ cup thin cream or rich milk, i egg. Toast or 
crackers. Melt butter, add cheese and seasonings ; as cheese 
melts add the cream gradually, stirring constantly, then the 
egg slightly beaten. Cook slowly till thickened. May use 
%to }i cup ale or lager in place of the cream. 



A Summer Drink 

Let stand for some hours lemons, sugar and fresh mint ; 2 
lemons to each bottle of ginger ale. Pour the ale on to the 
lemons and sugar when needed for use. Should be very cold. 

Drink now the strong beer^ 

Cut the white loafhere^ 
The while the meat is a-shredding^ 

For the rare mince-pie 

And the plums stand by 
To fill the paste that^s a-kneaaing.** herrick 



Pistachio Cream and Peaches 

TAKE I pt. milk, i tablespoon flour, i cup sugar, i egg, 
I pt. cream, i tablespoon vanilla, i teaspoon almond, Bur- 
nett's green coloring, chilled fresh peaches. Cook first three 
ingredients in double boiler 1 5 minutes, then add egg and 
cook I o minutes longer. Cool and add the cream, vanilla, 
almond, and enough coloring to make a pale green. Freeze 
and serve with chilled fresh peaches peeled, halved, and the 
centres filled with chopped walnuts. 



To Clean Brass 

Plain, not lacquered or burnished: If stained, rub with a solution of 
oxalic acid. Wash off thoroughly and quickly with soap and water. 
Polish with whiting; for the oil, use sweet, cottonseed or kerosene. 
Dust every week with oiled cloth. I 

[a6] 



0nv 0b}n Cook Pooks( 



Stuffed Peppers 

SPLIT 4 sweet bell peppers in halves lengthwise. Remove 
seeds and ribs. Prepare a stuffing as follows : i }i cups 
stale bread crumbs, i small onion grated, tomato freshly 
stewed, or canned, to moisten. Season highly with salt, pep- 
per and paprika. Mix lightly and fill the peppers. Put a 
small lump of butter on each and bake >^ to ^ of an hour in 
a hot oven, with a little water in the pan. 



€t 



Get me Piventy cunning cooks.** romeo and juliet 



Cream Cakes 

TAKE I pt. water, % lb. butter, i lb. flour, lo eggs. 
Follow the directions implicitly and delicious cream 
cakes will be the result. Boil the butter and water together, 
and stir in the flour while boiling. Take it from the fire to 
cool, when cool stir in the eggs one at a time. Don^t beat. 
Stir thoroughly, add i teaspoon of cold water. Drop into 
pans. Have the oven quite hot and avoid opening it. Bake 
about 1 5 minutes. Open cakes at the side and fill with this 
mixture : i cup flour, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, i qt. milk. Boil 
milk, beat eggs, flour and sugar together, stir them into the 
milk while boiling until thickened well. Add lemon when 
cool and fill the cakes. 



^^Heaven sends us good meat^ but the devil sends us cooks. ** 

GOLDSMITH 

Brownies 

TAKE j4 cup butter, i cup sugar, ^ cup flour, 2 eggs, 2 
squares melted chocolate, j^ or i cup chopped walnuts. 
Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and flour. Mix all together 
and add chocolate. Bake in dripping pan and cut into shape 
while warm. ______ 

For Cleaning Greasy Frying Pans 
Use first a soft paper, newspaper will do, but tissue is better. 

[97) 



T 



WBH^sit talent Barnes^ Cookeb 



Brandy Snaps 

TAKE I cup butter, 2 cups P. O. molasses, boil together 
j4 hour ; add j4 cup flour, ^ cup cocoanut, i even tea- 
spoon soda. Boil ten minutes, stirring constantly. Drop in 
small lumps on a buttered tin and bake gently till they bubble. 
Let stand a minute or two, then slip a knife under and lay 
them flat on a cold tin. 



*^Uke as my parlour so my hall 

and kitchen* s small, 
A little buttery y and therein 

a little biny 
Which keeps my little loaf of bread 

unshipped, unflead; 
Lord I confess too, when I dine 

the pulse is thine. 
And all those other bits that be 

there placed by Thee.** hbrrick 



Orange Cake 

CREAM % cup butter, add gradually i cup sugar ; beat 3 
eggs separately, i ^ cup pastry flour, 2 level teaspoons 
baking powder. Add the flour to the mixture alternately 
with yi cup milk. Bake in a shallow pan, cut in halves, or 
in a deeper one and split. 

Filling: Mix in order given % cup sugar, i generous table- 
spoon bread flour, grated rind of yi orange, }^ cup orange 
juice, }i tablespoon lemon juice, i egg, i teaspoon butter. 
Cook in double boiler ten minutes. When cold, spread be- 
tween cakes. 

Frosting: Grated rind of i orange, cover with i teaspoon 
brandy, J^ teaspoon lemon juice. Let stand twenty minutes. 
Strain and add gradually the yolk of i egg and confection- 
er's sugar until the right consistency to spread on cake. 



Care of Dover Egg-beater 
Do not put cogs of beater in water. Oil occasionally. 



[98] 



&nx (f^ton Cooi^ IRnohsi 



Supreme of Chicken 

CHOP very fine the breast of a raw chicken, and beat 
into it one at a time 4 eggs and }i pint cream. Season 
with salt and pepper.^ Butter small moulds, fill with chicken 
mixture, and bake standing in hot water covered with a 
buttered paper twenty minutes. Do not let the water boil. 
Serve with bechamel or mushroom sauce. 



'* Serenely JiiUy the epicure would say^ 
*Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.^ " 

8TDNBT SMITH 

Caraway Loaf Cake 

I lb. flour, yi lb. sugar, 5 oz. butter, 4 eggs, i cup milk, i 
small spoonful saleratus, i tablespoon caraway seeds. 

=Z===I MISS BARKER^ NO. ANDOVER 

Queen's Cake 

yi lb. butter (with a heavy hand), i lb. flour, i lb. sugar, i 
cup milk, 5 eggs, i grain nutmeg. miss s. b. osgood 



/ sing the sweets I know, the charms I feel — 

My morning incense, and my evening meal^ 

7he sweets of hasty pudding.*^ barlow 



Cheese Cakes 

Line baking cups with nice pie-crust. Fill with Queen's 
cake mixture, putting strips of pastry across top and bake. 



Raised Waffles 

SCALD I ^ cup milk, pour it over i teaspoon salt, add i 
tablespoon butter, ^ yeast cake dissolved in % cup luke- 
warm water, 2 cups pastry flour. Beat with Dover beater 
until smooth. Let rise, then add 2 eggs beaten separately. 
Cook in waflle iron. 



Mtiat AsAtm JBamti Cookeb 



Omelette 

TAKE 3 eggs, }4 cup milk, i teaspoon batter, i even table- 
spoon flour. Beat yolks of eggs light ; warm the milk 
and dissolve butter in it. Mix yolks, flour, milk and butter 
well together ; lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Pour into a hot buttered pan, season with salt and 
pepper over the top ; cook covered a few minutes on hot part 
of stove, then remove to cooler part of stove to finish. Fold 
and serve. (The recipe of a Georgia colored cook famous for 
her delicious omelettes.) 

*^Thou mak*st my teeming hen to lay 

Her egg each day. ** herrick 



English Sweet-bread 

I pt. of hot milk poured on a cup of butter, i cup of sugar, 
a little salt. When cool, add j^ yeast cake. Flour for soft 
mould ; currants or carraway seeds as desired. Rise 3 times, 
stirring down dough between times. 

Maple Creams 

I cup rich cream, 2 cups maple sugar. Boil until it is on the 
point of spinning a thread. Cool and beat imtil creamy ; add 
chopped walnuts aod pour into a well-buttered pan. Cut in 
squares when partially hardened. 

Yellow Tomato Preserve 

TAKE 3 lbs. small yellow tomatoes, 3 lbs. sugar, % lb. 
green ginger, 2 lemons sliced very thin. Make a syrup 
of the sugar with a very little water, drop in tomatoes, ginger 
and lemon. Have the tomatoes skinned or not, as you please. 
Boil very slowly until syrup jellies. It is well to let it stand 
over night in a kettle ; if not thick enough, put on the fire 
again in the morning. 

I90l 



&nx 0\s)n Coolk pooks; 



Oyster Cocktails 

TAKE 7 teaspoons tomato catsups /teaspoons horse-radish, 
ID teaspoons lemon juice, i teaspoon tobasco sauce, salt. 
Enough sauce for six persons. Keep oysters in towel on ice 
until very cold. Use small oysters. Fill cocktail glasses with 
oysters and cover with sauce. 



** Epicurean cooks 
Sharpen with cloy less sauce his appetite.^* 

ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA 

Citron Melon 

PEEL the melon, take out the inside, and cut it in small 
pieces. Weigh the melon and use same weight of sugar. 
Put the nielon to boil in water enough to cover it, boil until 
tender. Take it up in a dish, sprinkle the sugar over it, and 
let it remain over night. In the morning pour off the syrup, 
and boil until clarified. Then put the melon in and boil until 
scalded through ; place in a dish to cool. Add to the syrup 
lemons and preserved ginger ; boil syrup again until quite 
clear. Put the melon in jars and turn the syrup over it hot. 
Use 6 lemons to 5 lbs. of melon. 



^^Herbsy and other country messes 
Whkh the neat-handed Phyllis dresses.^* 



MILTON 



Mustard Pickle 

TAKE I cauliflower, i bunch celery, i qt. small white 
onions, 1 00 small cucumbers, i qt. green tomatoes. Cut 
coarsely the tomatoes and celery, break cauliflower into small 
pieces; onions and cucumbers to be left whole. Add 4 qts. 
water, i pt. salt. Let it stand 24 hours. 
Dressing: i cup flour, 2 cups sugar, 2 qts. vinegar, 5 table- 
spoons mustard, i tablespoon turmeric. Turn this over the 
pickle and cook slowly until soft. 



Wif^at S^sAtm Barnes; €no%th 



Scotch Short Bread 

TAKE }4 lb. butter, i lb. pastry flour, % lb. sugar. Wash 
the butter to remove salt, cream it and the sugar very 
thoroughly, add the flour gradually. Shape into small round 
cakes, or sheets an inch thick. Bake in very moderate oven 
a delicate brown. When cool sprinkle with confectioner's 

sugar. :=:::::::^=r 

*^1Vhere* s the cookf Is supper ready f 
The house tfimmed^ tushes strewed^ cobwebs swept?** 

TAMING OF THE SHRBW 

Orange Balls 

Yolk of one e^g. Rind and juice of one orange. Confec- 
tioner's sugar sufficient to make the mixture stiff. Make into 
little balls and roll in granulated sugar. A teaspoonful of 
brandy or Jamaica rum is an improvement. 



Pineapple Sherbet 

BOIL 3 cups of water, i pint of sugar and i pt. of fresh 
pineapple cut in pieces together 1 5 minutes. Add i tea- 
spoon gelatine softened in i tablespoon cold water. When 
cold add juice of 2 lemons and i cup cream beaten stiff, and 
then freeze. The cream may be omitted if not desired. 



Let vapid idlers loll in silk 

Around their costly board; 
Give us the bowl of samp and ndlk 

By homespun beauty poured. " whittibr 



Devonshire Clotted Cream 

LET milk stand 24 hours in winter and 1 2 hours in sum- 
J mer. Then heat very slowly on the back of range until 
it wrinkles and bubbles. Set it aside in a cool place for some 
length of time. Skim and serve with fresh fruit jams or 
preserves. 



0nv 0\sin Cook ^oaki 



Mushroom Consomme 

WHEN cooking fresh mushrooms^ save the peel and 
stems. Chop them fine and keep them dry in a cool 
place in a covered jar. Make ordinary consomm6, only chop 
the vegetables fine and saut6 in butter befiDre adding to the 
stock. Clear and strain the stock, then add i tablespoon of 
the mushroom powder to 6 cups consomm£. Serve with a 
tablespoon of whipped cream in each cup. 



**I/we can meet and so confer 
Both by a shining salt-cellar — 
We ^ it eat our bean with thatfidl mirA 
As we were lords of all the earth.** hbrrick 



Symbals 

2^ lbs. flour, I % lbs. sugar, 6 oz. butter, i o eggs, 2 spoon- 
fiils wine, spice. Have the lard very hot for frying, but not 
so hot as to burn or scorch. mrs. s. pickering 



Sally Lund {Tea Cake) 

I qt. flour, 2 eggs, i pt. milk, butter size of an egg, }i tea- 
cup sugar, }i teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, i tea- 
spoon soda. Bake in shallow pans and cut in squares. 



MRS. FRANKLIN STORY 



Iron Clads 

TAKE I cup cold water, i cup milk, 2 cups flour. Put 
water and milk together. Stir flour into half of it until 
smooth, then add the rest and beat very light with egg beater. 
Have iron muflin pan so hot that it smokes when butter is 
put into it. Pour in one cooking spoon of batter for each 
muflin. Bake fifteen minutes in very hot oven. Should be 
thin, hollow and crisp when done. 



<c 



Of right choice food are his meals** dickbns 

(33] 



Mfiat ftalem JBwmi CooikeDi 



Marshmallow Pudding 

SOAK ^ cup candied cherries in rum to cover for one 
hour ; cut in pieces and add to }4 cup walnut meats and 
}i lb. marshmallows also cut in pieces. Whip i cup heavy 
cream ; add 2 tablespoons powdered sugar and ^ teaspoon 
vanilla, and fold this into the other ingredients. Mould and 
chiU, == 

Tea Punch 

TAKE I doz. lemons, i small pineapple, about i qt. of 
tea (half Ceylon and half Oolong), some sprigs of mint. 
Squeeze lemons and cut pineapple into small dice. Add 
about 3 cups of sugar and let it stand over night. Cover the 
lemon rinds with cold water. In the morning squeeze the 
rinds again ; add all the water to the mixture, and next the 
freshly made tea. Sugar to taste, and dilute with i qt. or 
more of water. Before serving add ice and mint. 



€t 



They eatj they drinks and in communion sweet 

Quaff immortality and joy.** milton 



Floating Pudding 

STIR into I qt. boiling milk, 3 tablespoons flour beaten 
into 4 eggs, a little salt. Let boil ten minutes. Put into 
a dish and pour over it while hot a cup of sugar. Before 
going to the table add a glass of wine. 



Salem Cup Cake 

TAKE I % cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 5 eggs, i % cup milk, 
4^ even teaspoons baking powder, 4^ cups pastry flour, 
lemon and nutmeg. Cream butter, add sugar, yolks of eggs 
well beaten and milk. Add flour gradually, with baking 
powder sifted into flour ; add flavoring. Beat well, then fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in moderate oven. 

[34] 



0nx &mi Cock |Booiua( 



Creamed Shad Roe 

PARBOIL one large or two small shad roes in slightly 
acidulated water for twenty minutes. Remove the mem- 
brane and mash. Make a cream by melting 3 tablespoons of 
butter cooked for five minutes with i teaspoon finely minced 
shallot; add i ^ tablespoon flour» % teaspoon salt^ a generous 
sprinkling of pepper; then add }i cup cream and the yolks of 
2 eggs slightly beaten and the juice of i lemon ; add the roe. 
Spread thin buttered toast with the creamed roe. Garnish 
with cress and slices of lemon. 



^^Afat kitchen tnaketh a lean wiU.** 



BBNJ. FRANKLIN 



Preserved Peaches 

PEEL ripe perfect peaches and pack them closely in jars. 
Prepare a rich syrup in the proportion of a pint of water 
to 4 lbs. of sugar, and pour it when boiling hot over the 
peaches, taking care to fill every crevice in the jars, and to 
the brim. Screw on the covers tightly and stand them in a 
boiler full of boiling water. Cover with a blanket to keep 
the water hot as long as possible. Remove the jars when the 
water is cold. Screw covers tight. Keep in a dark, cool place. 



Chocolate Cake 

TAKE I oz. chocolate, % cup butter, i yi cup sugar, 4 
eggs, ^ cup milk, i % cup pastry flour, i heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, vanilla. Dissolve chocolate, then add 
5 tablespoons boiling water. Cream butter and sugar, add 
yolks, stir well, add a little of the milk. Beat whites of eggs 
stiff. Take beater from stiff whites and put into butter, sugar, 
yolks, etc., and beat until very light. Add the rest of milk, 
vanilla and chocolate. Fold in flour to which has been added 
baking powder. Lastly add the stiff whites of eggs. Bake 
forty-five minutes. 

[35] 



&nx 0\x)n Cooik iBookfi( 



Orange Soup 

Squeeze sufficient oranges to make a quart of juice drained. 
Strain and place over the fire. Add j4 cup sugar ; moisten 
2 tablespoons arrowroot. When the juice reaches the boiling 
pointy add the arrowroot. Stir for a moment, take from the 
fire, and when cool add 2 tablespoons cura9oa cordial. When 
ready to serve, put into your punch glasses a few small pieces 
of ice ; have the soup cold before pouring into the glasses. 



Sauce Norvegienne for Boiled Fish 

Whip j4 pt. cream and add 3 tablespoons mayonnaise, i tea- 
spoon English mustard (mixed), i j4 tablespoon bottled horse- 
radish, salt and cayenne pepper. Serve sauce ice cold, keep- 
it surrounded with ice until served. 



"O hour, of all hours the most blessed upon earth. 
Blessed hour of our dinners.** owen mbrbdith 



Hermits 

I cup butter, i }i cup sugar, 3 eggs well beaten, i teaspoon 
cloves, I teaspoon cassia, i teaspoon mace, i teaspoon soda, 
I cup stoned raisins chopped fine. Mix very hard with suf- 
ficient flour to roll very thin. 



Orange or Grape-Fruit Peel 

USE only thick peel. Cut in long, narrow pieces. Soak 
over night in cold water to which has been added salt, 
perhaps a handful. In morning wash, put in cold water, and 
boil one hour. Pour off water and boil again in fresh cold 
water until the peel can be pierced easily with a broom straw. 
Drain and pour over this a syrup made of 3 cups water and 
3 cups sugar. Boil until syrup has disappeared. When cool 
enough roll the peel in sugar. 



Mfiat AsAtm JBmttsi €oo%th 



Buckwheat Cakes 

TAKE I qt. buckwheat flour, 2 tablespoons yeast, a little 
salt, and about i qt. of warm water (as warm as new 
milk). Let stand over night in a pretty warm place, as you 
would put bread to rise. In the morning dissolve j4 teaspoon 
or I teaspoon soda (according to how much batter is risen) 
in I tablespoon of milk, and stir it in. Be sure to mix the 
cakes thin and brown on both sides. (An excellent recipe.) 

Almond Cream Soup 

TAKE I qt. rich veal stock, i pt. cream, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 2 tablespoons flour, i tablespoon chopped onion, 
% lb. shelled almonds,^ teaspoon white pepper, 2 teaspoons 
salt, bit of mace, thin yellow rind of lemon. Blanch almonds 
and pound to a paste in a mortar, adding a tablespoon of 
water from time to time to keep the almonds from becom- 
ing oily. Put the butter in a saucepan and when it is melted 
add the onion ; cook for five minutes, being careful not to 
brown. Add the flour to the butter and onion and stir over 
the fire until fi-othy but not brown. Gradually add the stock, 
stirring all the time. When this boils add the salt, pepper, 
mace and lemon peel. Simmer twenty minutes. Put the 
cream and almonds in a double boiler over the fire. Cook 
for fifteen minutes, then strain the contents of the stew pan 
into this, stirring all the time. Cook five minutes longer and 
strain through a fine pur6e strainer. 

French Chestnuts on Toast 

GASH the shells of the chestnuts and boil until soft (about 
twenty minutes), then peel and put in spider to brown 
with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of 
sugar, a pinch of salt, ^o pepper), and stir with a fork until 
brown. Then serve on hot pieces of toast. 

**Eat at your own tabk as you would at the table of the King. *' confuous 
i3n ■ 



INDEX 



. PAGE 

A BiU of Fare for Midfomer 7 

A Most Pleasant Drink 10 

Another 10 

Almond Cream Soup 38 

Apple Fritters 12 

Asparagus Soup 23 

A Summer Drink 26 

Bannuch Cakes 12 

Batter Pudding 17 

Blanc Mange 18 

Blueberry Pudding 19 

Boiled Dressing 24 

Brandy Snaps 28 

Breast of Mutton, To carbon- 

odea 9 

Bristol Bannocks 20 

Brownies 27 

Buckwheat Cakes 38 

Burnt Cream 9 

Cantaloupe Frappe 21 

Caraway Loaf Cake 29 

Cheese Cakes 29 

Chicken-Pye, To make a 7 

Chocolate Cake 3S 

Citron Melon 31 

Com Pone 13 
Cranberry Pudding ' 2S 

Cranberry Punch 24 

Cream Cakes 27 

Cream Griddle Cakes 36 

Creamed Shad Roe 3S 

Currant Conserve 2S 

Cyxny^from London Punch 17 

Custard Souffle 22 



PAGE 

Dandelion Wine 36 

Darbyshire Pudding 1 1 

Devonshire Clotted Cream 32 

Election Cake 14 

English Hunting Beef 13 

English Sweet-bread 30 

Floating Pudding 34 

Fruit Puff Pudding 36 

French Chestnuts on Toast 38 

Good Wigs, To make 9 

Hedg-hog Pudding, To make a 7 

Hermits 37 

Iron Clads 33 

Jellied Pecan Salad 22 

Jennie Dean's Heart Cakes IS 

Johnny Cake 16 

Loaf Cake 16 

Malaga Grape Salad 22 

Maple Creams 30 

Maple Sugar Ice Cream 36 

Marshmallow Pudding 34 

Mary Lynde's Coronation Pie 19 

Meg Merrilies Pottage 12 

Mexican Tongue 18 

Mince for Kes 24 

Mint Jelly 24 

Molly Saunders' Gingerbread 1 5 

Mrs. Hoffman's Cake 16 
Mrs. Underwood's Fruit Cake 19 

Muffins 18 

Mushroom Consomme 33 

Mustard Pickle 31 



tag] 















PAGE 


Nantucket Scallops Chowder 


25 


Salem Pudding 


14 


Nimble Cake 


20 


Sally Lund 


33 


Omelette 


30 


Sauce Norvegienne for Boiled 




Orangado He, TemaJkean 

Orange Balls 

Orange Cake 

Orange or Grape-Fniit Peel 

Orange Soup 

Oyster Cocktails 


8 
32 
28 
37 
37 
31 


Fish 
Scotch Short-bread 
Shrewsbury Cakes 
SoUd Syllabub --,. 
Sponge Cake 
Spring Chicken with Cream 

Sauce 


37 
32 
10 
18 
21 

17 


Pandowdy 


19 


Squash Pudding 


16 


Parmh, Per Iht Jict 


10 


Strawberry Ice Cteam 


23 


Peanut Soup 


22 


Strawberry Parfait 


21 


Pineapple Sherbet 


32 


Stufied Peppers 


27 


Pistachio Cream and Peaches 


26 


Sugar Gingerbread 


18 


Hum Pudding 


20 


Supreme of Chicken 


29 


Pound Cake 


11 


Symbals 


33 


Preserved Peaches 


35 






Pye with Kppias, To make a 


8 


Tea Punch 

Thin Sugar Gingerbread 


34 
23 


Queen's Cake 


29 


Trifle, To make a 


11 


Raised Waffles 


29 


Turmeric Gingerbread 


23 


Regent Sauce 


17 


Typical Prices 


8 


Rice Cake 

Rice Curry — Zanzibar Curry 

Rose Cake 

Rules for 


16 
23 
16 


Wedding Cake 
Welsh Rarebit 
Whip Syllabub 


14 
26 
14 


Caring for Kitchen Utensils 36 


White Currant Shrub 


12 


Cleaning Dover Egg-beater 28 


Yellow Gingerbread 


13 


Cleaning Brass 


26 


Yellow Tomato Preserve 


30 


Cleaning Greasy Frying Pans 27 


Yule Cake 


15 


Salem Cup Cake 


34 


Zanzibar Gingerbread 


14 



eos 



