
■73 



LlBRflRy Qp 



% 



.SONCRESS 



014 szTS'f 





Hb oioryp/: 
Canning ^ 

Recipes . Jyarion narJand 



DC 



■yn 




Lopyri^nl 
1910 

IN axional 

Lanner5 

Association 




... QM 



nX 



( I I O the humane reader who is likewise gifted 

^ I ^ with a Uvely imagination there is actual 

J>\[_ pathos in the efforts made through im- 

memorial ages, to preserve for the use of 

mankind what Scripture has taught us to call "the 

kindly fruits of the earth." 

When Science was in her cradle, even the im- 
perfect appreciation of the nutritive, alterative and 
curative properties of esculents and fruits created the 
desire to preserve them for use when they are out of 
season. Natural instinct, which civilization has 
blunted, not destroyed in the human race, detected 
the values of that which is the life and essence of all 
green and growing things — Succulence. What we 
would be without the bounding blood, foods are 
when the sap is extracted or -solidified. 

The supreme importance of fruits and vegetables 
in the dietary of Man cannot be over-estimated. The 
succulence of which I have spoken regulates the bil- 
iary secretions and the action of the digestive organs, 
and purifies the blood. Drain off the sap from these, 
and we have tissue and fibre that tax the assimilative 
powers of organs we would strengthen. Yet for a 
long line of centuries, mankind knew but two 
methods of protracting the usefulness of the most 
precious proclucts Mother Earth offers her children. 
These were Desiccation and Salt. We need not go 
back to the period ante-dating the Christian Era 
when the sons of Ishinael dried the yield of the date- 
palm, subjected it to powerful pressure, and packed 
it into bags for the daily food of caravans toiling over 
trackless wastes of sand where no vegetation ever 
struck root. Nor to the savage tribes of Tartary and 
their rations of dried horseflesh. Nor yet to North- 
ern nomads with their winter diet of parched maize 

Page Two 

©CI.A277979 



1 and jerked buffalo meat. The Arab was not supposed 

^ to comprehend that date-juice became granulated 

- sugar, the pulp of the fruit tough and innutritions, 

I and the skin parchment. Nor Tartar and Indian to 

ct give thought to the like transformation of juicy flesh 

Mnto "hides and leather." 
"^ Within my own recollection, and after the mag- 
netic telegraph had circled the earth, and steam-ships 
were making the far isles of the sea our neighbors, 
housewife and agriculturist held steadily to Salt and 
Desiccation as the prime agents in the endeavor to 
carry over into winter the life-giving foods of bounti- 
ful summer and autumn. We stewed down fruits in 
sugar until they lost all distinctive flavor. We dried 
apples, beans, peas, corn and tomatoes in the sun. 
When we hit upon the expedient of salting down 
green corn, then shutting out the air by pouring lard 
upon the surface, we were proud of the achievement. 

How universal throughout civilized nations was 
the yearning to perpetuate the gracious influence of 
the aforesaid "kindly fruits", is illustrated by the 
offer of the French government in 1795, of a prize 
of what would be in our currency, two thousand four 
hundred dollars, "for the most practical method of 
preserving Food." The sum was equivalent to 
double that amount in our day. Yet it was fourteen 
years before any record of a successful attempt to 
solve the mighty problem was recorded. 

Then appeared a "Monograph upon the Art of 
Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances", ap- 
proved and paid for by the National Authorities ap- 
pointed to undertake the task. One Nicholas Appert 
signed a receipt for the prize money. 

In a most interesting, instructive and suggestive 
lecture delivered at the recent Pure Food Exhibition 
in New York City, by Mr. Hugh S. Orem, Presi- 
dent of the Booth Packing Company of Baltimore, 
he says: 

"From that time to the present, Appert has been 
regarded as the Father of a Science which has proven 

Page Three 



to be a boon to all mankind. To perpetuate his 
memory France has erected a monument of endur- 
ing bronze." 

Yet, forty years thereafter, we find scientific men 
shaking doubtful heads over the claims of daring ad- 
venturers into the realm of practical demonstration 
of the possibility of preserving fruits and vegetables 
for an indefinite period by subjecting them to intense 
and continued heat and sealing them up in boiling 
hot air-tight cans. 

The infant and audacious industry dealt for sever- 
al years with tomatoes and peaches only. We paid 
gladly fifty cents for a quart-can of tomatoes, and a 
dollar for the same quantity of peaches. One of my 
earliest investments in table delicacies after I went to 
housekeeping was an order upon a New Jersey Can- 
ning Company for three dozen cans of peaches, for 
which the bill was thirty-six dollars! 

This was in 1857. 

It was a far cry from the French savant of the 
eighteenth century and his discovery of a half-truth, 
to the prince of Physicists who wrought with the 
"eternal patience" which was Michael Angelo's 
definition of genius, through a score of years, to es- 
tablish or refute the hypothesis of ' ' spontaneous gen- 
eration"- Meanwhile, humbler toilers were work- 
ing their way slowly but surely toward the same goal. 
If spontaneous generation of malevolent germs were 
a myth, reasoned the physicist, decomposition might 
be averted indefinitely by killing malevolent bacteria 
in any substance and excluding the germ-laden air 
from it permanently. The un-scientific Canner 
learned by actual experiment, that putrefaction might 
be kept at bay by heating his fruits or vegetables and 
sealing them while at the boiling point. 

Still working along the same lines — the one in the 
interests of abstract Science, the other with a definite 
and practical end in view — the seekers after truth ar- 
rived at the same conclusion. 

In 1874, Tyndall submitted to the Royal Society 



Page Four 



the results of his attempts to steriUze infusions of 
cucumber, beetroot, turnip, parsnip, new and old 
hay, by boiling. He alludes to "astonishing cases 
of resistance to sterilization" registered by other and 
eminent physicists. He had tried to sterilize each 
and all of the substances named, and established as 
an incontrovertible fact that, whereas, living bacteria 
were killed by continued boiling for from half an 
hour to forty minutes, the hardier germs (what the 
unscientific would describe as ' ' eggs ' ' ) retained the 
principle of life, and developed into activity after the 
infusion 'cooled. 

Says one of the great man's disciples: 

*' Professor Tyndall found that he could not ster- 
ilize an infusion of old hay without boiling it con- 
tinuously for several hours. ' ' Our intelligent Canner 
had not waited for the magnate's dictum. Read the 
following extract from a recent report of the manner 
of securing vegetables against the chances of decom- 
position, issued by a prominent firm of manufacturers 
of "Canned Goods": 

"Think of cooking corn under pressure at 250 
degrees, sixty-five minutes ! Of cooking peas under 
pressure at 245 degrees for forty-five minutes, and 
compare it with the methods of the housewife used 
in the home where fruits and vegetables are to be 
served on the table." 

This matter of sterilization was practically un- 
known to our ancestors. Even in hospitals, the 
imminent importance of destroying bacteria that 
might cling to instruments in the operating room, 
received hardly a thought. Now, lancet, forceps and 
scalpel — the very scissors used by the nurse in clipping 
the threads of a bandage — are passed through the 
scalding bath before they approach the patient. Our 
children are taught that to eat with dirty hands is not 
only slovenly, but dangerous. 

Yet — and herein is mystery! — the methods of the 
conscientious Canner sound to us like fairy tales and 
exaggerations ludicrouslv incredible. 

Page Five 



For example-^when we hear that peas are passed 
through three waters — two cold, aad one hot, before 
they are (automatically) put into the cans to be cook- 
ed, and that, in the process, they are not touched by 
the human hand except **when they pass along an 
endless white rubber belt where the cleanest young 
women pick out a broken pod or discolored pea, 
should there happen to be one." 

Or, that the Highest class of canning establish- 
ments are situated in the immediate vicinity of 
"truck-farms", with the express design of harvesting 
the products when they are in their freshest and 
most succulent prime, and that they are never touch- 
ed by unclean hands or bruised by ungentle handling. 

That — under the action of the Pure Food Laws 
which are proving Heaven's own benediction to our 
generation, it is not practicable to use other preserv- 
atives than Heat in the preparation of fruits and veg- 
etables, etc. , for the market. 

I am persuaded that much that I have said will 
be as novel to my readers as it was to myself \^ hen I 
entered upon a careful study of this subject. Certain 
abuses in the Canning Industry had aroused my in- 
dignation years ago to the extent of tabooing what 
the English call " tinned provisions " in the regula- 
tion of my family bills-of-fare. I am now moved to 
this explanation by a sense of justice and the desire 
to help my fellow-housewife to furnish her table with 
the most wholesome and palatable food the market 
affords. 

In conclusion, let me enjoin upon the cook who 
uses the recipes making up the rest of my pamphlet 
obedience to an inflexible law in the management of 
canned foods. Never turn the contents of a newly- 
opened can directly into the vessel in which they are 
to be cooked. If I have not prefaced each recipe 
by this injunction, it is from fear of tediousness in 
the repetition. 




Lobster Bisque 

Turn the lobster from the can an hour before using, and set 
in the ice chest. Remove all bits of bone and chop the fish fine. 
Take out the coral and lay it to one side. When the lobster is 
minced, measure it. There should be two cupfuls of it. Cover the 
bits of coral with a quart of boiling water, simmer for five minutes, 
and pour through a coarse strainer, rubbing the coral to make it go 
through the perforations. Put the minced lobster into a saucepan, 
add a cupful of cracker-dust and the coral-water, bring to a boil, 
season with salt and paprica and stir in four tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Cover closely,and set at the side of the range. Simmer for twenty 
rninutes, stirring every five minutes to prevent scorching. Put a 
pinch of baking soda into a quart of rich milk, and heat this in a 
double-boiler. When scalding hot, pour into it the lobster mixture, 
teating all hard. Serve with slices of lemon. 

Oyster Bisque 

Open a can of oysters, drain off the liquid and put it into a 
porcelain-lined saucepan ; season with salt and paprica. Bring to the 
scalding-point. Have the oysters chopped fine, and, when the liquor 
is very hot, stir these into it, and bring to a boil. While the oysters 
are heating put into another saucepan a cupful of hot milk, add a 
pinch of soda, and thicken with a paste made of a tablespoonful of 
butter rubbed into one of cornstarch. Thicken with the milk still 
more by adding three heaping tablespoonfuls of fine cracker-crumbs, 
then put in the minced oysters and liquor. Boil up once, stirring all 
the time, and serve. 

Oyster Stew 

Turn the contents of a can of oysters into a saucepan after 
airing half an hour. Into a double-boiler put a quart of skimmed 
inilk, adding to it a pinch of soda. Set the milk over the fire, and stir 
into it a great spoonful of butter. When this has melted, set the 
double-boiler at the side of the range where it will keep hot, but will 
not boil. Set the oysters and liquor over the fire ; bring to a 
hard boil, and put them into the heated milk. Serve with oyster 
crackers. 

Clam Chowder 

For this popular dish use two cans of clams and a can of 
tomatoes. Open the cans of clams and drain off the liquid, reserv- 
ing it for the chowder. In the bottom of a large pot fry a half-pound 
of salt pork that has been minced very fine, and when it is rather 
crisp add one onion, minced. Cook the onion to a light brown and 
pour into the pot the contents of a can of tomatoes, a dozen potatoes, 
peeled, parboiled and cut into dice, a dozen allspice and a dozen cloves 
in a little cheese-cloth bag, a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper and two 
quarts of cold water. Cover and cook for three hours. 

Break eight pilot biscuit in enough warm milk to cover them. At the 

Page Seven 



end of the time mentioned take th,^ cover from the chowder-pot and 
pour into the chowder the soaked pilot biscuit, the clam liquor and the 
clams, chopped coarsely. Stir well, put the lid on the pot again, 
and cook for a half-hour longer. Remove the spice-bag before 
serving. 

Cream of Corn Soup 

Chop the contents of a can of corn very fine, first draining off 
the liquid. Put the liquid and corn in a saucepan, add a cup of 
water and simmer for fifteen minutes, closely-covered. Add salt 
and pepper and a heaping teaspoonful of sugar. Rub to a paste two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour, and pour upon them in a 
saucepan a quart of rich milk into which a pinch of soda has been 
stirred. Stir until like smooth cream, then add the corn-puree. As 
soon as the soup is scalding-hot, take from the fire, and pour it upon 
the yolks of two eggs, beaten very light, whipping the eggs all the 
while that you are adding the soup. Serve at once in heated soup- 
plates. This is a delicious puree. 

Cream of Pea Soup 

Turn the liquor from a can of peas, and cover them with cold 
water. In twenty minutes drain the peas, cover with a pint of slightly- 
salted hot water, and boil until very soft, adding a lump of sugar while 
cooking. Rub through a colander "into a pint of milk that has been 
heated and thickened with a paste of a tablespoon ful, each, of butter 
and flour. Return to the fire for a minute,, whipping hard while it is 
reaching the scalding-point, then serve. 

Green Pea Soup 

Turn the contents of a can of peas into a saucepan, add a half- 
dozen sprigs of parsley and several sprays of mint. Boil until the 
peas are broken and soft, season them with a little sugar and salt and 
pepper to taste. Rub through a fine colander ; return to the fire 
and stir into the liquid a great spoonful of flour rubbed into one of 
butter. Stir until quite thick, then add a pint of mutton-stock, bring 
to a boil and take from the fire. In the bottom of each soup-plate 
lay half-a-dozen tiny dice or squares of fried bread, and pour the 
soup upon these. 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Turn out the contents of a can of spinach and chop the vege- 
table very, very fine. Thicken a quart of milk with a tablespoonful 
of butter rubbed to a paste with a tablespoonful of cornstarch, adding 
a pinch of soda, and keep hot in a double-boiler at the side of the 
range while you add to the spinach a cup of hot salted water, a tiny 
pinch of soda, and seasoning to taste. Cook for five minutes, or until 
the boiling point is reached, then rub the spinach through a colander 
into the milk, beating this steadily. Take from the fire and serve at 
once. 

Tomato Soup 

Into a quart of soup-stock that has been skimmed and seasoned, 
turn the contents of a can of tomatoes. Put over the fire, bring to a 
boil and cook for ten minutes. Run through a fine strainer, re- 

turn to the fire, season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of kitchen- 
boquet, and stir in two heaping tablespoonsful of raw rice that has 
been carefully washed. Set the soup where it will simmer gently, 
but not boil hard. When the rice is tender, add a teaspoonful of 
granulated sugar to the soup, and serve. 

Page Eight 



I 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

Rub the contents of a can of tomatoes through a strainer, and 
put over the fire with a heaping teaspoonful of granulated sugar, 
a teaspoonful of onion juice and a pinch of baking soda. When the 
tomatoes are scalding hot, cook together in another saucepan two 
tablespoonsful of butter and a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and 
pour upon them a quart of fresh milk. When this has been stirred 
to the consistency of rich cream, season the tomatoes with salt and 
pepper to taste and beat the milk gradually into them. Take at once 
from the fire, turn into bouillon-cups or soup-plates, and put a large 
spoonful of unsweetened whipped cream on the surface of each plate 
or cup of soup. 

Tomato and Corn Broth 

Into a saucepan put three tablespoon fuls of butter and, when 
this is hissing-hot, two small onions, peeled and minced, adding a 
bay-leaf and three black peppers. Cook for a moment, stirring 

to prevent ingredients browning. Put into the saucepan a table- 
spoonful of flour, and, when this has cooked several minutes, turn in 
a can of tomatoes previously seasoned with sugar, salt and white 
pepper to taste. Stir for five minutes, add two cups of boiling water 
and simmer for ten minutes. Pour the mixture through a soup- 
strainer into another pot in which are the contents of a can of corn 
chopped fine. Simmer for ten minutes more, add a gill of cream in 
which a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch has been stirred, and, 
when scalding hot, take from the fire and beat the soup into the 
whipped yolks of two eggs. Serve at once. 




NATURES SURROUNDINGS MIGHT SUGGEST SOMETHING PALATIAL 

But a husinesi which is helping thousands and helping to feed more millions claim it. H-'hat could 

he more suggestiz'e of cleanliness and purity than a canned food factory with such 

environments? Yet it is only one of our hundreds. 



Page Nine 




7^^J\^ 




Creamed Oysters 

Open a can of oysters several hours before using them, and 
empty the contents into a bowl. Drain off the liquor, and heat it. 
Stir a pinch of baking-soda into a cup of rich milk. Cook together 
three tablespoonfuls of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour, and, 
when they are well-blended, pour upon them the hot oyster-liquor 
and the cup of milk. Beat for a moment, then add the oysters. Cook, 
stirring, until the oysters are very hot and the sauce smooth and thick. 
Take from the fire, pour a little of the sauce upon a beaten egg, whip- 
ping this all the time, return the egg and sauce to the oyster mixture, 
put over the fire for a minute, stirring hard, season with salt and white 
pepper, and pour the smoking mass upon rounds of buttered toast. 
Set in the oven for a minute and serve. 

Broiled Oysters 

Drain the oysters, wipe dry, dip in cracker-dust, then in beaten 
egg, then in cracker-dust again, and set in the refrigerator .until the 
coating stiffens. Lay on a buttered broiler, and broil over clear coals 
to a golden brown. Serve with sliced lemon. 

Fried Oysters 

Prepare as in the last recipe, and when the coating of crumbs 
is stiff fry in deep fat to a rich brown. 

Scalloped Oysters 

Drain the liquor from canned oysters. Put a cupful of crumbs 
into a bowl and pour over them the oyster-liquor. Butter a pudding- 
dish and put into the bottom of it a layer of the oysters, cover with 
soaked crumbs, sprinkle with salt and pepper, ancl pour in several 
spoonfuls of well-seasoned white sauce. Put in more oysters and 
crumbs, and more sauce, and proceed in this way until all the oysters 
are used. Pour over the top layer the remainder of the white sauce, 
sprinkle with dried crumbs, dot with butter and set in the oven 
to bake for twenty minutes. 

Oysters and Bacon 

Fry slices of breakfast bacon crisp, but do not allow them to 
burn. Take out the bacon and arrange it about the edge of a platter, 
and set in the open oven. Have the contents of a can of oysters 
opened several hours before hand, and the liquor drained from the 
oysters. Each oyster must be dipped in egg, then in cracker-dust and 
set aside for an hour. When the bacon is removed from the pan, set 
the pan back on the range and lay in it carefully the breaded oysters. 
Fry until brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other. Ar- 
range the fried oysters in the middle of the platter, with the bacon 
about the edge, and serve. The bacon gives the oysters a delicious 
flavor. 

Page Ten 



Panned Oysters 

Cut rounds of toasted bread to fit in the bottoms of small 
pate-pans. On each round lay six canned oysters, and pcnir over 
them two tablespoonfuls of liquor drained from the oysters. Add 
bits of butter, and season to taste. Bake for ten minutes and serve 
in the pans in which they were cooked. 

Clam Fritters 

Drain the liquor from a can of clams. Chop them fine, season- 
ing* with salt and pepper. Beat two eggs very light, stir into them 
a cupful of milk, a gill of clam liquor and two cups of fiour that has 
been sifted twice with a saltspoonful of salt and two level teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder. When ready to fry the fritters, have deep fat 
at the boiling-point, beat the chopped clams into the batter, and drop 
this by the spoonful into the boiling fat. Cook to a golden brown, 
drain in a heated colander, and serve at once. 

Clam Pie 

Make a really good puff paste, and line the sides of a deep 
pudding dish, reserving enough for the upper crust of the pie. Do not 
have any bottom crust. Turn the contents of a can of clams into a 
saucepan and add to them enough water to make two small teacup fuls 
of liquid. It is well to measure the liquor from the can of clams be- 
fore heating so as to be sure to have just the right quantity of 
liquid. Stir in a tablespoonful of butter and cook all together for five 
rninutes. Add a cup of milk in which a saltspoonful of soda has been 
dissolved, stir in three stalks of celery chopped very fine, and the 
yolks of three eggs. Season to taste. Invert a teacup in the centre 
of the deep dish, pour the clam mixture around it, fit on an upper crust, 
and bake to a golden-brown. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Drain the liquor from a can of lobsters, and remove all 
bones from the fish. Break, — not cut, — the meat into bits about an 
inch long. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a double-boiler, and 
stir the lobster-meat into this, seasoning it with salt and cayenne. 
Heat in a double-boiler a cup of cream, stirring into it a pinch of 
soda. Beat the yolks of three eggs very light. When the lobster is 
very hot, pour on it the heated cream, and stir in gradually the beaten 
yolks. Stir until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to cook 
long enough to curdle the eggs. Add a wineglassful of sherry and 
serve immediately. 

Lobster Croquettes 

Drain the liquor from a can of lobster and cut the meat very 
fine. Heat a teacupful of rich milk, thicken it with a paste made 
by rubbing together two teaspoon fuls, e^ch, of butter and flour. 
Stir in the lobster-meat, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed 
smooth, and a half-cup of fine bread-crumbs. Season to taste with 
salt and cayenne, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir until very hot, 
and turn out upon a dish to cool. When very cold, form with floured 
hands into croquettes, roll in cracker-dust, then in beaten egg, then in 
cracker-dust again, and set aside in a cold place to stiff^en. When stiff, 
drop into deep, boiling fat, and fry to a golden-brown. 

Crab croquettes may be made by the same recipe. 

Page Eleven 



Lobster Pates 



m 



Line well-greased pate-pans with rich, puff pastry. Make a 
good white sauce. Have the canned lobster cut into small pieces of 
uniform size and stir these into the white sauce. Season to taste, and 
pour the mixture into the pate-pans. Fit rounds of pastry upon 
the pate-pans, and set them in the oven. Bake to a golden-brown, and, 
with a sharp knife, lift out carefully, taking care not to break the 
pastry. 

Devilled Crabs 

Flake canned crab-meat into tiny bits. Stir into it a gill of 
cream, a tablespoonful of melted butter, a tablespoonful of lemon- 
juice, a hard-boiled egg, minced fine, and season highly with cayenne 
pepper, a dash of Tobasco, and salt. Turn the mixture into buttered 
scallop-shells made of tin, china or silver, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are brown. 

Buttered Shrimps 

Turn the shrimps out of the can, and wash them in cold water. 
Drain, and pat dry between the folds of a clean dish-towel. Put into 
a frying-pan two tablespoon fuls of butter, and lay the shrimps in this 
when it is heated. Stir until very hot, then pour in a half-gill of 
boiling water, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup mixed with a tea- 
spoonful of lemon-juice and dash of paprica. Bring to a boil, 
and turn upon buttered toast. 

Salmon Steak 

Use a large can of salmon steak, and, in turning out, be careful 
not to break the fish. Drain it from the oil in which it is canned. Rub 
the wires of the broiler with butter and lay the steak on them, broil- 
ing it lightly on one side before turning and broiling it on the 
other. Transfer to a hot platter, rub well with melted butter 
and squeeze lemon-juice on the fish. Sprinkle with minced parsley 
and serve. 

Salmon Cutlets 

Drain canned salmon and flake to a smooth mass, adding a raw 
egg. well-beaten, a handful of dry crumbs, a pinch of mace, a dash of 
paprica, and a cupful of white sauce. Mix well, and set aside to stiffen. 
Form, when stiff, into cutlet-shapes, dip in egg and cracker-dust, and 
set on the ice for an hour before frying m deep fat. A piece of raw 
macaroni may be stuck into each cutlet to simulate the rib on a French 
chop. 

Salmon Pudding 

With the contents of a can of salmon, flaked fine, mix half as 
much fine crumbs as you have salmon, season with salt and cayenne and 
a little onion-juice. Make a white sauce and stir a cupful, or enough 
to make the salmon very moist, into the mixture. Put into a greased 
mould, fit on a cover and set the mould in an omer pan of boiling 
water. Put in the oven and cook for an hour. Turn out and pour 
white sauce about the fish. 

Page Twelve 



I 




C5 7 -'-■''^^— ^'-'*^ 



6-6 ^He^ 




^ 



Stewed Corn 

Turn the contents of a can of corn into a fi.ie colander. Hold 
under the cold water faucet and wash off the corn, then turn into a 
saucepan. Cover with slightly-salted boiling water and stew for ten 
minutes, or until the kernels are as tender as desired. Drain off 
the hot water, add a cup of milk into which has been stirred a table- 
spoonful of butter and beat all until very hot, then serve. If preferred 
the milk may be thickened by adding a heaping teaspoonful of flour 
to the butter before putting this into the milk. 

Corn Pudding 

Drain the liquid from a can of corn, and chop the kernels 
fine. Into a pint of milk stir four well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, the chopped corn, a teaspoonful of sugar, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Turn into a buttered pudding-dish, set this in an 
outer pan of scalding water, and set in the oven. Cook until set and 
brown. Serve as a vegetable. 

Corn Oysters 

Chop the contents of a can of corn after draining them from the 
liquor. Beat three eggs very light and add to them two tablespoonfuls 
of flour and a half-tablespoonful of salt. Beat all hard and drop by 
the spoonful of deep boiling fat. As soon as they are done, lift out 
with a skimmer, and serve. 

Corn Croquettes 

Drain the liquid from a can of corn, and chop the kernels. 
Cook together in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into 
one tablespoonful of butter, and add gradually one-and-a half-cups of 
sweet milk into which a pinch of soda has been stirred. When very 
thick, put into this sauce a teaspoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper 
to taste. Beat in the corn, and, as soon as the mixture is thick, pour 
out upon a chilled dish to cool. When cold and stiff, form with floured 
hands into croquettes, and set aside after breading until stiff, then 
fry. 

Corn and Tomatoes 

Chop the pulp from a can of tomatoes into small pieces, and 
put it with the drained contents of a can of corn together in a saucepan. 
Stew for fifteen minutes, season with sugar, salt and pepper, thicken 
with butter and flour, and turn into a baking-dish, strewing buttered 
crumbs over the top. Bake for fifteen minutes. 

Corn and Potatoes 

Drain the contents of a can of corn, and turn the kernels into 
a frying pan containing melted butter. Cut cold boiled potatoes into 
dice, and add two cupfuls of these to the corn in the pan. Toss and 
stir all together until the potatoes are lightly-browned, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and turn into a heated vegetable-dish. 

Page Thirteen 



Tomatoes, Corn and Green Peppers 

Cut the tops from green peppers, remove with a sharp knife 
the inner membrane and s6eds, and put into a bowl. Pour over the 
peppers enough boiling water to cover them, and leave in this water 
until it is cold. This process draws out the hot taste from the vege- 
table. 

Empty a can of tomatoes into a colander, and drain off the 
liquor. Chop the pulp and mix it with the chopped kernels of a can 
of corn. Add sugar to taste, and season with salt and pepper. Add 
enough cold boiled rice to hold the vegetables together, and fill the 
peppers with this mixture. Put into a baking-dish, pour the tomato 
liquid about the base of the peppers, and cook until the peppers are 
tender. Transfer to a hot dish, add to the tomato liquor in the pan, 
sugar, salt and pepper to taste, thicken it with flour rubbed into 
butter, and pour around the stuffed peppers. 




MAIN PACKING ROOM 

Here the food is going into the cans, thousands and thousands of them at one time. Yet all is order and 

system and the output satisfies the most exacting taste. The uf-to-date canner can afford no 

slip-ups. The nation''s health are in his keeping. 



Corn Omelette 

Beat six eggs very light, and add salt and pepper. Make a 
pint of white sauce, and into this stir the contents of a can of 
corn, first draining off the liquor. Season with a little sugar, 

salt and white pepper. Turn the eggs into an omelette pan, and when 
the omelette is set, spread it with half of the corn mixture, fold it 
over, transfer to a heated platter, and pour the remainder of the 
corn and sauce about the omelette. Serve at once. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Run THE contents of a can of tomatoes through a colander. 
Season with a heaping teaspoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Butter a pudding-dish and put into the bottom of it a layer 
of tomatoes, sprinkle well with bread-crumbs, and scatter bits of 
butter over these. Put in more tomatoes, and more crumbs until 
the dish is full, having the top layer of buttered crumbs. Set the 
dish in the oven, covered, for a half-hour, uncover and brown. 

Page Fourteen 



een ■ 



Tomato Cheese 

Slice whole canned tomatoes, and lay each slice on a round of 
buttered toast, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay a thin slice of 
cheese on top of the tomato. Set in the oven until the cheese melts, 
and serve. 

Fried Tomatoes 

For this dish select tomatoes that have been canned whole. 
Open the can and drain off the liquor, reserving it for soup or for 
sauce. Cut the tomatoes in halves or thirds, crosswise. Dip each 
slice in egg and cracker-dust, and fry in melted butter, turning over 
when the upper side is done and cooking on the under side. Lay on 
a small platter and set in the oven to keep hot while you make the 
sauce for this dish. Add to the butter in the frying-pan a table- 
spoonful of flour, and, when this is blended, pour upon it a cup of 
milk to which a pinch of soda has been added. Stir to a smooth 
sauce, season to taste, and pour around the fried vegetable. 

Devilled Tomatoes 

Drain the liquor from a can of whole tomatoes, and cut them 
into thick slices. Lay in a colander. Boil four eggs very hard ; 
grate the yolks to a powder and work into them two tablespoonfuls 
of butter softened by setting in the oven for a minute. When you 
have a smooth paste, beat in three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a dash 
of paprica, and a teaspoonful of Worcestshire sauce. Put over 
the fire and, when scalding-hot, pour gradually upon a beaten egg, 
whipping this all the time. Return to the fire and stir until the mix- 
ture begins to thicken, then set the vessel containing it in an outer 
vessel of hot water while you fry the sliced tomatoes. When done, 
lay on a hot dish, and cover with the sauce. 

Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes 

Boil rice and keep hot. Drain the liquid from a can of tomatoes, 
and put the liquor over the fire. Season to taste, and thicken with a 
tablespoon ful of butter rolled in one of flour. When you have a good 
tomato sauce taken from the fire. Put the boiled rice into a pudding- 
dish ; cover it entirely with a layer of grated cheese, and over this 
pour the tomato sauce, adding this slowly so that it may percolate to 
the bottom of the dish. Set in the oven and bake, covered, for fifteen 
minutes, then uncover and brown. 

Tomato Toast 

Empty a can of tomatoes into a saucepan and simmer for ten 
minutes. Toast eight slices of bread, and cut off the crust. Butter 
the toast lightly. Season the tomatoes, being sure to add a little 
sugar. Rub them together through a soup-strainer. Cook together 
a tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour, and, when 
they are blended, pour upon them the strined tomatoes. Stir until 
thick and smooth. Arrange in a dish a layer of the toast, and pour 
over it a few spoonfuls of the tomatoes. Fill the dish with layers 
of toast, putting a few spoonfuls of the tomato preparation on each 
layer. When all the toast is used fill the dish with the remaining 
tomato mixture, and set in the oven just long enough to heat 
thoroughly. This is a delightful luncheon-dish. 

Page Fifteen 



Tomatoes Fried in Batter 

Cut whole canned tomatoes into quarters, and drain each 
piece in a colander. Make a batter of two eggs, beaten light, a cup- 
ful of milk, and a cupful of flour that has been sifted with a half- 
teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. If this batter is 
too thin, add more flour. Dip each piece of tomato in this batter and 
drop into deep, boiling fat. Serve as soon as done. 

Tomatoes and Eggs 

Boil eight eggs hard, and cut into thick slices. Turn the 
contents of a can of tomatoes into a saucepan and stew for ten min- 
utes, seasoning: to taste, and thickening with three teaspoonfuls of 
cornstarch rubbed into a tablespoon ful of butter. Take from the 
fire. In the bottom of a buttered dish put a layer of crumbs, make 
these very wet with the tom.atoes, and lay on them slices of eggs 
sprinkling with salt and pepper. Put in another thin layer of 
crumbs, and pour in more tomatoes, laying more egg slices on these. 
Where the eggs are all used pour in all the tomatoes, sprinkle these 
with buttered crumbs and set for five minutes in the oven, or until 
heated well. Serve in the dish in which the ingredients were baked. 

Baked Tomato Omelet 

Drain the liquor from a can of whole tomatoes, and chop the 
tomatoes. Season them to taste and put into the bottom of a pudding- 
dish. Beat five eggs very light, whipping into them a cupful of 
crumbs that have been soaked for an hour in enough milk to make 
them very soft. Season with salt and pepper, and whip in a table- 
spoonful of Parmesan cheese. Pour into the pudding-dish and cook 
in a hot oven until light brown and puffy. Serve immediately. 

Creamed Beets 

Dr.^ix the liquor from a can of beets, and cut the beets into 
slices a quarter of an inch thick. Make a rich white sauce and turn 
the beets into these. Season with salt and pepper and toss and turn 
until very hot. 

Beets with Vinegar Sauce 

Turn the beets from the can and heat them in the liquor in 
which they were canned. Drain, and put them into a vegetable dish 
to keep hot. Melt in a frying pan two tablespoonfuls of butter and 
stir into it five tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a little pepper and salt. 
When boiling hot, pour over the beets, and serve. 

Beets Stuffed with Peas 

Select l.'^rge canned beets, and, with a small spoon, scoop out 
the insides. Drain the liquor from a can of peas, and heat in a 
little boiling water. Drain, add a spoonful of melted butter and salt 
and pepper to taste, and fill the hollowed beets with them. Set in the 
oven for a few minutes, pour over all hot, melted butter and serve. 

Boiled String Beans 

He.->iT the beans to the boiling point in the liquor in which they 
were canned, drain off the liquid, add salted boiling water, and cook 
for ten minutes, slowly. Drain again, season with salt and pepper, 
and stir in a great lump of butter. When this is melted, serve. Or, 
if preferred, pour a white sauce over the beans, instead of the butter. 

Page Sixteen 



I 



String Beans with Brown Sauce 

Drain the beans and cover with boiling water. Cook for five 
minutes. Heat a pint of strained beef-stock, well-seasoned; drain 
the beans, and stir them into this. Simmer for five minutes more, 
drain again, and put into a colander to keep hot. Rub together two 
tablespoonfuls of browned flour, a half-teaspoonful of k.cchen bouquet, 
and a gill of cold water, making a paste that is free from lumps. 
Stir this into the stock in which the beans were boiled, and, when 
you have a smooth, brown sauce, turn into it the beans, toss and stir 
until smoking hot, and serve in a heated vegetable-dish. 

Pea Souffle 

Drain the liquor from a can of peas, put them into a double 
boiler, add pepper and salt and a generous teaspoonful of granulated 
sugar and cook until very soft. Drain ; rub through a colander, 
and mash with the back of a silver spoon, adding melted butter until 
you have a smooth paste. Beat three eggs well, add to them two 
cups of milk, and beat this liquid gradually into the pea-paste, whipping 
all very light. Turn into a buttered pudding-dish and bake, covered, 
for fifteen minutes, uncover and bake to a delicate brown. Serve 
as soon as done. This is a delicious dish. 

Green Pea Fritters 

Make a soft paste of canned peas as directed in the last recipe. 
Into this paste beat a teaspoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper, 
four eggs, beaten very light, a cupful of milk, and enough prepared 
flour to make a stifif batter, or about a cupful. Drop this mixture by 
the spoonful upon a buttered griddle, and, when brown on one side, 
turn and brown on the other. 

Green Pea Balls 

Drain the liquor from a can of peas, and boil tender in salted 
water. Drain, rub through a colander, and work into them a table- 
spoonful of butter rubbed smooth in two tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
gill of cream, a teaspoonful of sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and 
two beaten eggs. Put into the inner vessel of a double-boiler and 
stir this mass until it has cooked long enough to be boiling-hot all 
through. Take from the fire and set away to cool. When cold, flour 
the hands and make into small balls of uniform size. Dip in beaten 
egg and then in cracker-dust and set in a cold place for at least an 
hour before frying in deep, boiling fat. Serve with white sauce poured 
around them. 

Peas and Carrots, Creamed 

Scrape carrots, boil until tender, and cut into small dice of 
uniform size. Drain the liquor from a can of peas, cover with salted 
boiling water and simmer for five minutes. Drain, mix the carrot-dice 
with the peas, cover with boiling water and cook together for three 
minutes, then drain, season to taste, pour into them a well-seasoned 
white sauce, stir over the fire for one minute, and serve. 

Baked Spinach 

Drain canned spinach and chop very fine. Into this chopped 
mass beat four beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of flour stirred into a cup 
of cream, salt and pepper to season, and a tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Beat long and hard, turn immediately into a greased baking- 
dish, and set in the oven. Bake to a light brown and serve as soon 
as done. 

Riflte Seventeen 



Creamed Spinach 

Drain the liquid from a can of spinach and put it into the 
inner vessel of a double-boiler. Steam until very hot and soft. Take 
from the fire, chop very fine, or put through a food-chopper. 
Return to the fire, add a tablespoonful of butter and a gill of thick 
cream into which a pinch of soda has been stirred. With a wire egg- 
whip beat the mixture as light as possible, adding more cream if 
necessary to make very soft. Season to taste, heap on a hot platter, 
garnish with triangles of toast and serve. 

Boiled Spinach 

Open a can of spinach and pour out the contents an hour or 
two before using. Drain, cover with salted water, and simmer for 
ten minutes, adding a generous pinch of baking soda to the water in 
which the vegetable is cooked. Drain, chop the spinach very, very 
fine, beating into it as soon as chopped a tablespoonful of melted, — not 
hot, — butter. Add salt and pepper to taste, mound the spinach on a hot 
dish, garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. 

Spinach and Eggs 

Drain canned spinach, and chop small. Cook together in a 
frying-pan two tablespoonfuls of flour and one tablespoonful of but- 
ter and stir the spinach into this with three tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Season, and stir over the fire for three minutes, taking care not to 
allow the mixture to scorch. Take from the fire, and, when the 
spinach begins to cool, line the bottom and sides of nappies with it, 
leaving a hollow in the centre. Into this hollow break a fresh egg, 
put a little butter on top of it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and set 
in the oven until the white of the eggs has formed. Serve as an 
entree or luncheon-dish. 

Asparagus on Toast 

Drain the water from cannea asparagus, and lay the stalks 
at full-length in an asparagus-boiler. Cover with salted boiling water, 
and leave just long enough to heat the stalks through. Have ready 
a platter of crustless toast, moisten these slightly by sprinkling tliem 
with a few drops of asparagus water, and lay the stalks on this — 
all the heads turned in one direction. Pass a white sauce with the 
dish, or, if preferred, pour melted butter over the heads of the 
stalks. 

Asparagus Tips 

Canned asparagus tips may be prepared exactly according to 
the former recipe, and, when hot, may be stirred into the white sauce 
and then poured over rounds of toast. 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette 

Drain the stalks, cover with boiling water, drain as soon as 
heated, and, while hot, pour over them a dressing made by mixing 
six tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a 
saltspoonful of salt, — (or more, if liked — a saltspoonful of French 
mustard, and a dash of paprica. Beat this dressing to an emulsion 
before putting it on the asparagus, then set all in the ice until the 
stalks are chilled through. 

Page Eighteen 



Scalloped Asparagus 

Drain canned asparagus, cut off the tips, with about an inch 
of the stalk, — saving the stalks for soup. Cover the tips with 

boiling, salted water, and simmer for five minutes. Drain, and 
put in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and cover with three hard-boiled eggs, chopped very 
fine, and seasoned. Over these pour a white sauce, and sprinkle this 
with crumbs and bits of butter. Set in the oven for fifteen minutes 
and serve. 

Asparagus Loaf 

Cut the top from a loaf of stale bread, and scoop out the in- 
side, leaving a hollowed loaf, like an empty box. Lay the cover on 
top of the loaf, and set in the oven with the door open until very 
dry, but not browned. Cook canned asparagus-tips in hot water for 
ten minutes, drain, and stir into them a white sauce made by cooking 




STERILIZING PEAS 

They are nez<er tmiched with human hands from the vine to the can. The ethics of cleanly 
require, though, that after hulling they must pass through three waters and live steam 
as to make sterilisation complete. The machinery grinds them at the same time. 



together a tablespoonful, each, of butter and flour, and pouring upon 
them a gill of milk and one of cream, and seasoning to taste. Stir 
until smooth and thick before adding the asparagus tips, fill the 
hollowed loaf with this mixture, set in the oven until heated through, — 

or for five minutes, and send to the table. 



Asparagus Cups 



Cut stale bread into slices one-and-half inches thick and 
remove the crusts. With a biscuit-cutter press half-way through each 
slice, and remove the crumb from the centre. Set these cup-like 
slices in the oven, and, when hot, brush over with melted butter and 
brown lightly. Prepare canned asparagus-tips according to the direc- 
tions for Asparagus Loaf, fill the cups with the mixture, make these 
very hot in the oven, and serve. 

Page Nineteen 




\S&^/^cZ>s 



Tomato Aspic Salad 




Soak a half -box 
Put the to.nato- 




Drain all the liquor from a can of tomatoes. 
of gelatine for a half-hour in a cupful of cold water, 
liquor into a saucepan with a bay- 
leaf, a half-teaspoonful of onion- 
juice, and a sprig of parsley. Sea- 
son with salt and white pepper, and 
bring to a boil. Simmer for twenty 
minutes, stir in the soaked gelatine, 
add a teaspoonful of sugar and, as 

soon as the gelatine is dissolved, take from the fire and strain through 
a flannel jelly-bag. Pour into a wet melon mold or into a border- 
mold, and set in a cold place to form. When stifif turn out upon 
platter and serve garnished with lettuce leaves, pouring a mayonnaise 
over it. 

Beet and Celery Salad 

Drain canned beets, and scoop out the insides. Cut crisp celery 
into small bits and mix with a rich mayonnaise. Fill the beets with 
this mixture and set them in the ice until very cold. Put two crisp 
lettuce leaves on one plate, lay the stuffed beets on this and send 
to the table. 

Tomato and Green Pepper Salad 

Drain the liquid from a can of whole tomatoes, and cut the 
vegetables into cubes or pieces about an inch square. Set in the ice. 
Cut into strips tender green peppers and remove the seeds and mem- 
branes. Cut these strips into squares of uniform size. Place lettuce- 
leaves in a bowl, lay tomatoes among the leaves and sprinkle the pieces 
of green peppers among them. Pour over all a French dressing, and 
serve. 

Macedoine Salad 

Drain the liquor from canned tomatoes, and cut into bits of 
uniform size enough tomatoes to make a half-cupful; add to them 

a half-cupful of canned, drained 
peas, a half-cupful of canned string- 
beans, a half-cupful of celery cut in- 
to bits, and two hard-boiled eggs, 
cut into bits. Season all with salt 
and pepper and set in the ice until 
very cold, then mix with a French 
dressing and heap ine vegetables on crisp lettuce-leaves. 

Salmon Salad 

Turn out the contents of a can of salmon, draining off all the 
grease or liquor. Separate the fish into good-sized pieces, and put in 
the ice-box. Lay on lettuce-leaves, and put a spoonful of mayonnaise 
on each piece of salmon. Garnish the platter of salad with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs. 

Page Twenty 





jriS***^ 



Salmon and Cucumber Salad 

Drain the liquor from a can of salmon, and place it on lettuce- 
leaves. Have ready three cucumbers that have been peeled, sliced and 
laid for an hour in iced salted water, then drained very dry. Lay 
these slices on top of the salmon, and pour over them a French dress- 
ing. 

Shrimp Salad 

Turn the contents of a can of 
shrimps into a bowl and set 
in the ice for two hours. Ar- ^t" 
range the shrimps on crisp lettuce- 
leaves and pour a mayonnaise dress- 
ing over them. 

Crab Salad 

This is a delicious dish. Turn the crab-meat from the can some 
hours before it is needed so that it may get ice-cold. When ready 
to serve take from the ice-box, arrange in pieces of uniform size in 
the centre of a lettuce-lined bowl, add a dash of paprica or cayenne, 
and pour through and over the crab-meat a good mayonnaise. When 
properly prepared this salad cannot possibly be distinguished from that 
made of fresh crab-meat, — and is so much more easily prepared that the 
busy housewife welcomes it gladly. 

Lobster salad may be made in the same way. 

Toma,to and Peanut Mayonnaise 

Drain whole tomatoes and cut them into halves. Get these 
very cold and arrange on lettuce-leaves on a platter. Make a cupful 
of mayonnaise dressing and into this beat, a little at a time, two 
tablespoonfuls of peanut butter, working all to a smooth, thick mix- 
ture. On each halved tomato place a spoonful of this dressing. 

Spinach and Egg Salad 

Boil eight eggs hard, cut in half and remove the yolks. Drain 
a can of spinach and chop very fine or put through a meat-chopper. 
Rub the egg-yolks to a paste with a tabl.espoonful of melted butter; 
work into this the spinach, adding more melted butter if necessary 
to make a paste that can be handled. Season with salt and pepper, 
and make the mixture into balls. Cut off the ends of the halved 
egg-whites so that they may stand. Fit into each one of these 

one of the balls, and arrange en a lettuce-lined platter. As there will 
be some of the paste left over, make it all up into round balls, and 
garnish the edge of the dish with them. Pour over all mayonnaise 
dressing. This is a pretty and delicious dish. 

Bean, Beet and Spinach Salad 

Drain the liquor from a can of string beans and put them on 
the ice ; drain the liquor from canned beets, and cut these into dice 

of uni!^orm size, and put on the ice; 
press the water from the canned 
spinach chop it coarsely, and put 
this also on the ice. When the veg- 
etables are chilled, mound the spin- 
ach in the centre of a platter, put a 
rinfT of the beet-dice around this, 
arrange about the beets a ring of string-beans, and border these 
with crisp lettuce-leaves. Drench all with French dressing, and serve. 

Page Twenty-ono 




Pineapple Pudding 

Drain the liquor from a can of pineapple and chop or grind 
the fruit fine. Cover with granulated sugar ; leave for an hour, 
and press the syrup from it into the liquor in which the fruit was 
canned. Line a pudding-dish with slices of stale sponge cake, and pour 
over it the pineapple liquor and syrup, putting in enough to moisten 
well. Fill the dish with the chopped fruit, and cover with another 
layer of cake-slices. Soak this cake with the remaining liquor, 
sprinkle with sugar, cover and set the dish in an outer pan of boiling 
water in the oven. Bake for a half-hour, uncover and cook for five 
minutes more. Serve with a hard sauce flavored with lemon. 

Strawberry Pudding 

Drain the liquor from a can of strawberries, and reserve it 
for sauce. Leave the berries in a colander where they will drip dry. 
Rub a tablespoonful of butter to a cream with two tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, add a cup of milk, four eggs, beaten light, and three 
cups of prepared flour, stirring in more if needed. Roll the berries 
in flour until thickly coated, and stir in lightly, last of all. Pour the 
batter into a greased pudding-dish, and bake. Serve with strawberry 
sauce. To make this, add a cup of sugar to the strawberry liquid, boil 
for two minutes, add the juice of a lemon and serve. 

Canned blackberries and canned raspberries may be used instead 
of strawberries for the above pudding. 

Huckleberry Pudding 

Drain the liquor from canned huckleberries. Make a dough 
of a quart of prepared flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and a pint 
of milk. Rub the butter into the flour that has been sifted with two 
tablespoonfuls of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt, stir in 
the milk, and turn upon a floured board. Roll into a sheet a scant 
half-inch in thickness, and spread upon this the drained berries. 
Sprinkle with sugar, and roll up the sheet, as one would a sheet of 
music. Pinch the ends of the roll together, fold a piece of floured 
cheese-cloth about it, baste this together at the ends and side, and 
drop the pudding into a pot of water at a hard boil. Boil for one- 
and-one-half hours. Serve hot with hard sauce. 

Royal Peach Pudding 

Beat the j'olks of five eggs light with a cup of powdered sugar 
that has been creamed with a tablespoonful of softened butter. When 
well-blended, add a quart of milk in which two cupfuls of dried crumbs 
have been soaked for two hours. Beat hard, and turn into a pudding- 
dish set in an outer pan of boiling water. Bake until set and lightly 
browned, draw to the door of the oven, cover with canned peaches 
that have been drained from their liquor and cut small, and spread 
thickly over these the whites of the eggs beaten stiff with enough sugar 
to make them very sweet. Brown this meringue lightly. Set away until 
cold, and eat with rich cream. 

Page Twenty-two 



Peach Batter Pudding 

Drain canned peaches and put in the bottom of a deep dish. 
Strew with sugar and pour over them a batter made of a pint of milk, 
a tablespoon ful of melted butter, two beaten eggs and enough flour 
sifted with a teaspoonful of baking powder to make the batter of the 
proper consistency. Set immediately in the oven, and bake. 

Brown Betty 

Drain liquor from canned apples, and chop these fine. Boil 
or crumble a cup-and-a-half of bread-crumbs. Put into a pudding-dish 
the minced apples, sprinkle them with granulated sugar and a little 
cinnamon, and cover with the crumbs, dotted with bits of butter. 
Moisten with some of the liquor in which the apples were canned, 
and set the dish in the oven. Bake for a half-hour, and serve hot with 
hard sauce. 




STERILIZATION BY HEAT THE OKn II • 

See these immense retorts huilt to withstand the intense heat or JtiO i>,^:,, < I :i in /hit Ao gern: liti 

can exist in this high temperature. The tanner and the scientist uori hand tn hand in tht 

grc't iiori of destroying the germ life hy heat sterhzatlon only. 



Apple Scallop 

Turn the contents of a can of apples into a saucepan and boil 
until the fruit is very tender. Drain and chop the apples to a smooth 
mass. Rub through a colander ; return the apple-sauce to the fire 
and stir into it a great spoonful of butter, sugar to make very sweet, 
and a half-a-grated nutmeg. Crumble stale cookies very small, beat 
a cupful of these crumbs into the apple-mixture, turn into a buttered 
pudding-dish, and bake. 

Pineapple-Tapioca 

Chop canned pineapple into tiny bits. Soak a cup of pearl 
tapioca over night. Boil until clear, add a cup of granulated sugar, 
a tiny pinch of salt, and a pint of the chopped pineapple. Set away 
until'cold, then put into the ice-box. Serve cold, spreading over the 
tapioca, just before sending to the table thick whipped cream, sweet- 
ened. 

Page Twenty-three 



Apple-and-Tapioca Pudding 

Open a can of apples, and drain them. Soak a cup of tapioca 
for six hours in two cups of cold water. Put in a saucepan, add 
two cups of boiling water and cook slowly until clear, adding more 
water if the tapioca seems too dry. Put the apples in a pudding-dish, 
strew over .them two tablespoon fuls of sugar and pour in the boiled 
tapioca. Set in the oven for fifteen minutes, or until very hot, then 
cover with a meringue made of the whites of two eggs beaten light 
with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Return to the oven to 
color lightly, and set away until cold. Eat with sugar and cream. 

Apple and Almond Souffle 

Blanch and chop a quarter-pound of almonds very fine. 
Chop a can of apples to a pulp. To the chopped almonds add the 
apples, six tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, a pinch of cinnamon, 
and the yolks of six eggs beaten thoroughly. Last of all fold in the 
stiffened whites of the eggs. Turn into a lightly-buttered pan and 
bake in a slow oven for a half-hour. 

Cream of Apricots 

Drain canned apricors, and rub them through a colander. Re- 
turn them to their own liquor and cook for several minutes, stirring- 
steadily. Soak three-quarters-or-a-package of gelatine in a quart of 
milk for two hours, first stirring a pinch of soda into the milk. Pour 
into a double-boiler and stir over the fire until the gelatine is dis- 
solved, add the apricots and stir again. Take from the fire and 
beat until almost cold, and, when cool, add the whites of four eggs, 
beaten stiff, and whip until the mixture is stiff. Turn into a mould 
wet with cold water and set on the ice. Serve with powdered sugar 
and cream, or with sweetened whipped cream. This is delicious. 

Plum Sago Pudding 

Stg.ve a can of plums and put them over the fire with their 
liquor, adding enough water to make a quart of liquid. Boil until 
the plums are very tender, rub them through the colander and return 
with the liquid to the fire. Add a cupful of fine sago that has been 
soaked for a half-hour in enough cold water to cover it, boil until clear 
add sugar to taste, and, as soon as this is dissolved, turn into a mold, 
wet with cold water. When cold, set in the ice-box to stiffen. Eat 
with cream. 

Strawberry S])anish Cream 

Mix canned strawberries with a cup of their juice, and rub 
through a strainer. Add a cupful of powdered sugar. Put over 
the fire a half-box of gelatine that has been soaked for two hours 
in a gill of cold water, add to it a gill of boiling water, and stir un- 
til the gelatine is dissolved. Stir the fruit into this, take from the 
fire and beat in a cup of whipped cream as the mixture cools. When 
cold and stiff, set in the ice. Eat with rich cream. 

Rice and Strawberries 

Drain a can of strawberries. Cook a cup of rice until tender, 
and, while cooking, cream together a half-cup of butter and a heaping 
cup of powdered sugar, add the strawberries, mashed to a pulp, and 
pour all over the hot rice. 

Page Twentij-four 



Strawberry Float 

Drai.v the liquor from canned strawberries, and cover them 
with granulated sugar. Stand for an hour, then drain, pressing out 
all the juice. Add to this enough of the liquor in which the berries 
were canned to make a half-cupful. Beat the whites of five eggs 
very stiff, add the strawberry pulp, beating all the while. Line a 
glass dish with macaroons, into a cup of rich cream stir the straw- 
berry-juice, and pour on top of the macaroons, and on this pink cream 
heap the strawberry meringue. Serve at once. 

Tutti-Frutti with Whipped Cream 

Draix the liquor from canned peaches, canned pineapples and 
canned cherries, and stone the latter, cutting the other fruits into 
slices. ]\Iix all the fruits, and put over the fire with enough of the 
mixed liquors in which they were canned to cover them ; add a cup- 
ful of sugar and simmer for five minutes. Add a box of gelatine that 
has been soaked for a half-hour in a pint of cold water, and when 
this is dissolved, take from the fire. Set where the fruit will cool, 
stirring often as the mixture stiffens. When quite stiff, turn into a 
glass bowl, and, when cold, heap on the mixture a pint of whipped 
cream. 

Peach Cornstarch Pudding 

Cut eight canned peaches into thin slices. Pour over them a 
cup of granulated sugar. In a double-boiler heat a pint of milk to 
scalding, add to it gradually the yolks of three eggs, well-beaten, and 
a tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved in a gill of cold milk. Stir 
constantly and as soon as it is thick, pour over the sugared fruit. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add three spoonfuls of 
sugar, and spread over the mixture. Set in the oven just long enough 
to stiffen the meringue. 

Apricots and Cream 

Dr.mx apricots and set them on the ice. When cold, fill the 
cavity, left in each half by the stone, with sweetened whipped cream 
iTiixed with blanched and chopped almonds. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and serve. 

Strawberries Caches 

Cut the centre from a round angel cake, scooping out the in- 
side. Drain a can of strawberries, cover them with sugar, and pour 
them into the centre of the cake, fill the hollow left above them with 
whipped cream, and serve immediately. This dish is also delicious if 
the hollow over the berries be filled with ice-cream. 

Strawberries and Ice Cream 

Put canned berries with their juice into a saucepan, add a cup 
of sugar and, when this is melted, stir in a box of gelatine that has 
been soaked in a cup of cold water. Stir until this is dissolved, then 
take from the fire and turn into cups or small moulds wet in cold 
water. When cold, set in the refrigerator until very stiff. Turn 
out upon a chilled platter, scoop out the centre of each mold with a 
small spoon, and fill the cavity thus left with a spoonful of vanilla 
ice-cream. Serve immediately. This dish is made still prettier by 
heaping whipped cream about the base of the forms. 

Page Twenty-five 



Frozen Apricot Whip 

Beat the yolks of six eggs. Drain and chop the contents of 
a can of apricots, return them to their liquor and put over the fire 
with a cup of granulated sugar. When the sugar is dissolved stir 
in the juice of a lemon and a half-box of gelatine that has soaked 
in a gill of water, and, as soon as this is dissolved, take from the 
fire. When the mixture begins to cool, beat in gradually the 

whipped yolks of the eggs, then set the pan containing the mixture 
into another of cracked ice and stir until it becomes quite stiff. Beat 
in a pint of whipped cream, turn into a freezer, and freeze. 

Raspberries and Cream 

Turn the contents of a can of raspberries into a saucepan, 
add a cup of sugar and simmer for ten minutes. Take from the fire 
and drain. Set the berries in the ice until cold, then half-fill tall, 
shallow glasses with the berries, cover them with a heaping spoon- 
ful of sweetened whipped cream, and put a few berries on top. 

Raspberry Sherbet 

Add a cup of granulated sugar to the contents of a can of red 
raspberries, and stew for ten minutes. Mash the berries, and press 
out all the juice, adding it to the other liquor from the canned berries. 
Stir into this a pint of rich lemonade sweetened to taste. Strain, 
beat in the white of an egg and freeze. 

Strawberry Surprise 

Add a cup of granulated sugar to the contents of a can of 
strawberries, and stand for an hour. Pour into a colander and rub 
the berries through the holes, mashing them thoroughly. Stir into 
the mixture the unbeaten whites of four eggs and the juice of a 
lemon, and freeze. The grinding of the cream will beat the whole 
to a delicious pink froth. 

Peach Ice Cream 

Turn the liquid from two cans of peaches and chop the fruit : 
— then cover with granulated sugar, using two cups for the two cans 
of peaches. Make a custard of a quart of milk, five eggs and a cup 
of sugar. Boil until the custard coats the spoon, take from the fire. 
and, when cold, beat in the sweetened peaches and a pint of rich 
cream. Grind in the freezer until too stiff to turn, then remove the 
dasher and pack down in ice and salt for several hours. 

Apricot Sherbet 

Turn out a can of apricots and chop the fruit very fine. Stir 
into them a syrup made by boiling together a pint of water and a 
cup of granulated sugar. Add the juice of a lemon and a wine- 
glassful of sherry, and freeze. 

Cherry Ice in Canteloupes 

Bring the contents of a can of cherries to a boil with a cup 
of sugar. Cook for five minutes, drain out the cherries, chop them 
fine, and return them to the liquid. Flavor with a tablespoonful of 
marschino, and the juice of a half-lemon. Add a cup of cold water 
and turn into the freezer. When frozen, fill halved canteloupes from 
which the seeds have J^een removed with the cherry ice and serve at 
once. Delicious ! 

Page Twenty-six 



Fruit Cocktail 

Drain from a can of cherries a cup of the hquor, add to it a 
generous half-cup of granulated sugar and put it into a saucepan. 
When the sugar is melted put it into the cherries, leave for a moment, 
drain, lay them into a bowl and cover with sherry. Boil the syrup for 
five minutes, take from the fire and chill. Cut into small bits several 
slices of canned pineapple, cover it with powdered sugar, and set in 
the ice-chest. Into glasses with long stems put five of the cherries, 
drained from the sherry, a spoonful of pineapple, and fill with the 
sherry syrup mixed with the sherry and the juice of a half-lemon. 
Set the glasses in a large panful of crushed ice until chilled through, 
and serve. 

Tiitti Frutti Ice Cream 

Drain the liquor from canned cherries (stoned), strawberries, 
peaches and apricots. Chop all coarsely, and mix, put over the fire 
at the side of the range with a cup of granulated sugar and when 
this is melted take from range and set aside to cool. Make a rich 
custard of a quart of milk, six eggs and two cups of granulated sugar, 
flavor with vanilla, and, when boiled and cooled, add a quart of cream 
and put into the freezer. Grind until half-frozen, remove the top 
and the dasher, put in the fruit and sugar, beat hard to blend well, 
and grind until stiff. Remove the dasher and pack down for two 
hours. 

Strawberry Mousse 

Put the contents of a can of strawberries over the fire and 
simmer until the fruit is soft, then drain and rub the berries through 
a strainer, mashing them well. Set the berries in the ice-chest and 
cover with a pound of granulated sugar. Soak a package of gelatine 
for an hour in a cup of cold water. Put it over the fire with a half- 
pint of boiling water, and, when the gelatine is dissolved, beat in the 
sugared berries. Set aside to cool, and, as soon as cool, beat gradually 
into a quart of whipped cream. When light and stiff, turn into a mould, 
pack this down in ice-and-salt and leave for six hours. 

Pineapple and Peach Glaces 

Drain the Jiquor from a can of peaches and a can of pineapple 
and chop the fruit fine. Cover with a cup of granulated sugar. Stand 
for an hour, and pour over them the liquor drained from the fruits 
and enough water to make a full pint-and-a-half of liquid. If not 
sweet enough, add sugar. Stir in the juice of a lemon, and the un- 
beaten white of an egg, and freeze. 

Pumpkin Pie 

Put the contents of a can of stewed pumpkin into a bowl and add 
to it two cupfuls of granulated sugar, eight eggs, beaten light, two 
quarts of milk, and ground mace, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 
Line deep pie-plates with rich puff pastry, fill with the pumpkin-mix- 
ture, and bake. 

Apple Sauce Pie with Meringue 

Drain canned apples, put them into the inner vessel of a 
double-boiler, and steam until so soft that they may be rubbed through 
a colander. Add sugar to taste, the juice of a half-lemon, and a pinch 
of cinnamon. Bake in an open crust, and, when done spread with a 
meringue of the whites of two eggs beaten light with a tablespoonful 
of powdered sugar. Brown lightly, and take from the oven. Serve 
cold. 

Page Twenty-seven 



Apple Pie 

Drain the liquid from canned apples, lay them, sliced, into an 
open pie-crust, strew with sugar, add a few drops of lemon-juice, and 
a pinch of cinnamon, cover with a good crust and bake. 

Peach Cream Pie 

Make according to the recipe for peach pie, and, when done, 
lift the upper crust, spread the peaches with a cup of cream, whipped 
stiff, replace the top-crust and sprinkle this with powdered sugar. 
Serve immediately. 

Peach and Cherry Pie 

DraIx\ the liquor from canned cherries and canned peaches, and 
take the stones from the cherries. Line a deep pie-plate with rich 
pastry, lay the halved peaches on the crust, and press into the hollow 
left by the pit in each half a stoned cherry. Sprinkle well with granu- 
lated sugar, fit on an upper crust, and bake. 




A FIELD OF PINEAPPLES 

Grown in the tropics. Distributed zvith all their natural delicious flavor the world hier^ 

through the agency of the tin can. 



Pineapple Pie 

Put canned pineapple, drained from its liquor, through the 
meat-chopper. Beat the yolks of two eggs, add to them a teaspoonful 
of butter rubbed smooth with a cup of sugar, stir in a cup of milk and 
beat in the minced pineapple. Pour immediately into an open crust 
and bake in a moderate oven. When done, spread with a meringue 
made by beating the white of an egg stiff with a tablespoonful of 
powdered sugar. Return to the oven long enough to brown lightly. 

Plum Cream Pie 

Drain canned plums, and put into a deep pie-plate; strew with 
sugar, fit an upper crust on the pie (there should be no under-crust) 
and bake. Just before serving, take the crust from the pie, pour in 
enough thick, rich cream to cover the fruit, put the cover back and 
5erve at once, sprinkling with powdered sugar. 

Page Twenty-eight 



Peach Pie 

Drain canned peaches and slice. Lay in an open crust, -sprinkle 
with sugar and cover with an upper crust. Bake in a good oven. 

Apricot Pie 

Drain the juice from canned apricots, and fit into each halved 
apricot a blanched almond. Lay in regular rows in the bottom of a 
pastry-lined tin, sprinkle with sugar, and cover with strips of pastry, 
laid on crosswise. Bake, and serve cold with sugar and cream. This is 
delicious. 

Cherry Pie 

Drain the canned cherries, and pit, reserving the juice that 
flows from them. Fill an open crust with the fruit, pour in the juice 
that flowed from the fruit when stoned, sprinkle with sugar, fit on an 
upper crust, and bake. 

Cream Strawberry Pie 

Drain canned strawberries, and lay in an open crust, strew- 
ing well with granulated sugar. Fit on an upper crust, moistening 
the edges with water, that the upper and lower crusts may not adhere. 
Put a pinch of soda into a gill of cream mixed with a gill of milk, 
and put over the fire. Stir until scalding hot, and thicken with two 
teaspoonfuls of cornstarch, wet to a paste with a little cold milk. 
Add sugar to make the mixture sweet, take from the fire, and, when 
cool, pour the cream upon two egg-whites whipped very stifif. Remove 
the upper crust from the baked and cooled pie, pour this cream-mix- 
ture over the berries, replace the crust, sprinkle with powdered sugar, 
and serve. 

Huckleberry Pie 

Drain canned huckleberries. Line a deep pie-plate with pastry. 
Sprinkle flour over the berries and put them into the crust, filling it 
with them. Spread over the fruit a small cupful of sugar, and dot 
thickly with butter. Put on an upper crust and bake. 

Cherry or Berry Tarts 

Drain the fruit, and, if cherries are used, stone these. Put 
the fruit over the fire with just enough of its liquor to prevent scorch- 
ing, and simmer for five minutes, adding a great spoonful of sugar 
and a teaspoonful of butter rubbed to a paste with a teaspoonful of 
cornstarch. If this makes the syrup too thick, add a little more liquor. 
When like thick cream, take from the fire. Let the mixture cool, and 
fill pastrv-shell with the mixture. If preferred, one may line small 
well-buttered pans with pastry, fill with the fruit, cover with strips 
of pastr}^ laid crosswise, and bake. Lift the tarts carefully from the 
tins when cold. Sprinkle with sugar. Canned plums, peaches and 
apricots, as well as berries, may be used for these tarts. 

Preserves, Sweet Pickles, Etc. 

The housewife who has always made her pickles, preserves, 
jams and marmalades from the raw fruits, discovers, with a thrill 
of relief, that in using canned fruits for this purpose half of the labor, 
and the heaviest part, has been done for her already. No more peel- 
ing of the fruit, — the process that to the busy woman seems like a 
loss of valuable time, and no long stewing of tough fruits before 
they are in a proper condition to have the final and interesting touches 
put to them. Two-thirds, — yes three-quarters of the work, is done 

Page Twenty-nine 



for her before she opens the cans of peaches, apples, pears, or small 
fruits she would prepare for the Sunday night suppers of the winter 
months, or for the "Emergency Shelf to which she will turn when 
unexpected company arrives. Fruits are wholesome and, in cold 
weather, are too expensive for the family of the average householder. 
Give John and the children, then, pure preserves, jam that owes its 
rich hue to no artificial coloring-matter, and sweet pickles that are 
tender and toothsome, and contain no tartaric acid. 

Preserved Peaches 

Drain canned peaches and weigh them. To each pound of the 
canned fruit allow three-quarters-of-a-pound of granulated sugar. 
Pour a half cup of peach liquor into the bottom of the preserving 
kettle, pour in the sugar, then add the rest of the liquor, and set at 
the side of the stove where the sugar will not scorch. Bring very slowly 
to a boil, lay in the drained peaches, boil up just once, and remove 
with a split spoon or strainer, spread on platters to cool, and boil the 
syrup until thick and clear, skimming off the scum as fast as it arises 
to the surface. Fill jars with the peaches, pour in the boiling syrup, 
and seal. 

Apricots and pears may be preserved in the same way. 

Preserved Plums 

Put canned plums, and the liquor in which they were canned, 
over the fire, bring to a boil, and lift out the fruit. Weigh this, and 
allow a scant pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put liquor and 
sugar over the fire, and boil to a clear syrup, skimming often. Pack 
the plums in jars, fill these with boiling liquid, and seal. 

Preserved Cherries 

Drain canned cherries, and stone the fruit, preserving all the 
juice that flows from them during the process. Weigh the stoned 
fruit, and allow a pound of sugar to every pound-and-a-quarter of 
pitted cherries. Put fruit and sugar in alternate layers in the pre- 
serving kettle, pouring the fruit that exuded in stoning. Leave at 
the side of the range until the sugar has melted, then simmer slowly 
until the syrup is thick. Pour into jars and seal. 

Preserve canned berries according to directions for preserved 
cherries. 

Preserved Apples 

Drain canned apples, and for every dozen halves of the fruit 
allow a cup of sugar. Put the apples into the preserving kettle, cover 
with the sugar and pour in the liquor from them. Simmer for three 
minutes, then pack in jars and boil the syrup until thick and clear, 
removing all scum that arises to the surface. When thick, add lemon- 
juice to taste, boil up once, pour into the jars, filling to overflowing, 
and seal. Keep in a dark, cool place. 

Preserved Pineapple 

Take canned pineapple slices from the liquor and weigh. 
Allow a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put sugar and fruit 
in alternate layers in the preserving-kettle, pour in a cup of the liquor, 
and simmer until the pineapple is very tender. Take out and lay on 
platters to cool. While the syrup is boiled, skimming often, until 
thick. Stir in a tablespoonful of lemon-juice for each quart of syrup, 
put the fruit into jars, fill these with the boiling syrup, and seal. 

Page Thirty 



Peach Marmalade 

Weigh canned peaches, and allow three-quarters-of-a-pound 
of sugar to each pound-and-a-quarter of fruit. Put the fruit over 
the fire with a little of its own liquor, and boil, stirring often, until 
very soft. Take from the fire, chop the fruit, return it to the kettle 
with the sugar, and boil for fifteen minutes, add the juice of a lemon, 
cook for two minutes, and turn into glasses. 




A SANITARY KITCHEN 

An everyday sight in the up-to-date canned food manufactory. H'hite enamelled ceiling and walls 

with cement floors are daily washed, flushed and steamed to insure cleanliness. 



soft. 



juice 
Put 



Raspberry Jam 

Drain canned berries, and to every pound of them allow 
generous half-pound of sugar. Put the berries over the fire in 
double-boiler, and cook until soft and broken. When very 
dip out any superfluous juice, stir in the sugar and cook for a half 
hour before pouring into jelly-glasses. 

Strawberry Marmalade 

Weigh canned berries that have been drained of their 
and to every one-and-one-quarter pounds allow a pound of sugar 
the drained berries in a preserving-kettle without liquor and, stirring 
all the time, heat them until they begin to boil, and turn in the sugar. 
Boil hard for a minute, pour into a strainer; return the liquid to the 
fire and cook until a little poured on a saucer will "jelly;" put the 
fruit back into the syrup, boil up once and pour into glasses. 

Brandied Peaches 

Drain the liquid from canned peaches, weigh these and allow 
for every pound of the fruit one-and-one-half pounds of granulated 
sugar. Put the liquor from the peaches and the sugar over the fire 
together ; when melted, lay in the peaches, and when the boil is 
reached, take from the syrup and put into glass jars. Boil the syrup 
for twenty minutes more, and add for every four pounds of fruit a 
pint of brandy. Stir this into the syrup just before taking from the 
fire, pour into the jars of peaches, letting it flow in over all, and fill 
the jars to the brim. Seal and keep in a dark place "^ 
six weeks. 



Do not use for 



Page Thirty-one 



"Mixed Jam" 

Drain the juice from a can of cherries and pit them; drain and 
cut into slices a can of peaches; peel, seed and slice two oranges; 
seed a half-pound of raisins. Mix all this fruit together and weigh it. 
To five pounds of it allow four pounds of granulated sugar. Put 
sugar and fruit without water into a preserving kettle, bring slowly 
to the boil and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour, stirring often. Turn 
into glasses and pour paraffine over the jam when cool, then cover. 

Pickled Peaches 

Drain canned peaches and weigh them. To three pounds of 
the fruit, allow a generous pound of sugar, a cup of vinegar, and a 
heaping teaspoonful, each, of ground mace, cloves and cinnamon. Put 
the spices into a thin muslin bag. Put the fruit and sugar in alternate 
layers in a preserving kettle and bring slowly to a boil. Put the bag 
of spices into the vinegar and pour this upon the peaches. Bring again 
to the boil, take out the fruit and lay on platters while the syrup and 
vinegar cook hard for fifteen minutes, or until thick. Put fruit and 
syrup into glass jars and seal. 

Pickled Pears 

Select small canned pears for this purpose. Weigh and 
allow a half-pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put into a kettle 
with the sugar, moisten with a gill of the pear-liquor and proceed as 
with pickled peaches. 

Pickled Plums 

Drain and weigh the canned plums, and allow a half-pound of 
sugar to ever}^ pound of fruit. For each pound of plums measure, 
a gill of vinegar, and a saltspoonful, each of ground cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg, putting these into a bag. Put vinegar, with the spice bag 
in it, into the preserving kettle with the sugar, and, as soon as the 
boil is reached, lay in the plums. Bring to the boil again, take out 
the fruit, lay on platters, and boil the syrup until thick, then put the 
plums in jars with the hot syrup and seal. 

Tomato Pickles 

Drain whole canned tomatoes. Cut into thick slices. Put into 
the preserving kettle a quart of vinegar, three-and-one-half pounds of 
sugar, a half-ounce, each, of cinnamon and mace, and one ounce of 
cloves. Bring to the boil, lay the tomatoes in this syrup and cook for 
five minutes, remove, put into wide-mouthed jars, and boil the 
syrup for an hour, or until very thick. Fill the jars with the spiced 
syrup and seal. 

Pickled Beets 

Drain canned beets and cut into thick slices. Pack them into 
jars. Boil together a quart of vinegar and two pounds of brown 
sugar, and stir into them a saltspoonful of powdered alum. Skim off 
any scum that rises to the surface of the liquid. When the boil is 
reached, drop into the liquid a cheese-cloth bag in which are a half- 
teaspoonful, each, of whole allspice, mustard-seed, peppercorns, and 
cloves. Add a dash of paprica and a saltspoonful of salt. Boil hard 
for three minutes, and pour over the beets in jars. At the end of 
twenty-four hours drain off the liquid, boil again for five minutes, and 
pour over the beets. Seal the jars. 

Page Thirty-two 



I 



Spiced Pear Preserves 

Drain canned pears, cut into long slices and weigh. For 

four pounds of fruit allow three pounds of granulated sugar, a quarter- 
pound of ginger-root, sliced very thin, six whole cloves, and the juice 
of two large lemons. Put into the kettle a gill of pear-liquor, the 
ginger-root and cloves, the sugar and the peel of a lemon, cut into thin 
strips. As soon as the sugar is melted, lay in the pears, simmer for ten 
minutes, take out and put into jars, boil up the syrup, and, when thick, 
pour it over the pears, filling the jars to the brim. Seal at once. 

Pickled Cherries 

Drain canned cherries and measure them. For every quart of 
the fruit put into the preserving-kettle a half-pint of vinegar and a 
heaping tablespoonful of sugar, adding, when this boils, a dozen cloves, 
and six blades of mace, broken into bits. Boil for five minutes, drop 
the cherries into the liquid and take from the fire. Leave for twenty- 
four hours, drain out the cherries, put these into jars and boil up the 
vinegar again .Strain out the spices and allow the vinegar to get cold 
before filling the cherry-jars with it. Seal and keep in a dark place. 

Gooseberry Chutney 

Drain canned gooseberries, and measure. To a quart of the 
berries allow two ounces of mustard-seed, two ounces of ground 
ginger, two-and-one-half ounces of brown sugar, ten ounces of seeded 
raisins, three ounces of salt, three ounces of garlic, and a quart of 
vinegar. Chop the garlic, raisins and gooseberries together, putting 
them through a fine meat-grinder to convert them to a paste. .\dd 
all the other ingredients and boil for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Add 
enough tumeric to make a good color, turn into jars and seal. 

Spiced Plums 

Drain canned plums, and remove skins and pits. Weigh the 
fruit, and to three pounds of it add a pound of sugar and a scant gill- 
and-a-half of vinegar. Put the vinegar, sugar and fruits into the 
preserving-kettle and stir in an ounce, each, of whole cloves and 
stick-cinnamon, broken into bits. Boil until very thick and turn into 
jelly-glasses. 

Spiced Tomatoes 

Weigh canned tomatoes that have been drained from liquid. 
To three-and-a-half pounds of them allow two pounds of granulated 
sugar, a half-ounce, each, of cinnamon, whole cloves and allspice, a 
quarter of a grated nutmeg, and a half-pint of vinegar. Boil the vine- 
gar and spices together, add sugar and tomatoes and boil until the 
mixture is very thick. 

Chili Sauce 

Drain the liquor from canned tomatoes, and measure the 
drained vegetable. To two quarts of tomatoes allow a pint of onions, 
— the small, white ones, chopped, — a teacupful of brown sugar, four 
tablespoon fuls, each, of powdered cloves, allspice and cinnamon, a 
heaping teaspoonful of ground ginger, and- a saltspoonful of cayenne 
pepper. Put the spices into the vinegar, and when hot, add the other 
vegetables and cook, steadily, for two hours. Set aside until cold, 
bottle and seal. 

Page Thirty-three 



Pickled String Beans 

Drain canned string beans, cover with boiling water, and boil 
for five minutes ; drain, pack into jars, and fill these with boiHng 
vinegar which has cooked for five minutes with a few cloves, allspice, 
and a half-dozen pepper-corns. Seal the jars, and set aside for several 
months before using. 

Tomato Catsup 

Put into a preserving kettle four cans of solid tomatoes, and 
four peeled and sliced onions. Boil together until the onions are soft, 
press all through a colander, and strain through a fine strainer. Re- 
turn the liquid to the kettle with a bunch of parsley, two bay leaves. 




PEJCHES ^S F^'JR AS THE EYE CAN REACH 

The trees are Jilled with the ripened fruit, ready for t)ie canner, xuho gets them fresh picked from the 

the orchard, thus guaranteeing the natural rich color and flavor. 



a tablespoonful, each, of celery-seed, black pepper, whole cloves, salt- 
and sugar, a teaspoonful of paprica and a half-teaspoonful of grated 
garlic. Boil for four hours, stirring often. When the mixture has 
boiled so long that it is reduced to two-thirds of its original bulk, add 
a pint of vinegar, and boil until thick. Take from the fire, strain, and, 
when cold, bottle and seal. 

Sandwiches 

For the school luncheon, Sunday night supper and picnic, the 
sandwich is always popular, but the housekeeper is often sorely puzzled 
as to what kind of sandwiches to make. Anybody can use cold chicken 
and other meats, but she would like to prepare something a little out 
of the ordinary. For this purpose canned articles afford her a large 
and palatable variety. 

Tomato and Peanut Sandwiches 

Drain the liquor from canned tomatoes and chop enough of 
them to make a small cupful of tomato-pulp. Work this into the con- 
tents of a jar of peanut butter, adding salt to taste. Spread between 
thin slices of bread. 

> Page Thirty-four 



Salmon Sandwiches 

Drain a can of salmon, remove the bones, and flake the fish 
very fine. Dip a lettuce leaf in mayonnaise dressing, lay it on a thin 
slice of buttered bread from which the crust has been cut, put a layer 
of the flaked salmon on this, cover with another lettuce-leaf, and 
put on the upper half of the sandwich. 

Tomato Sandwiches 

Drain whole canned tomatoes, and cut in thick slices. Make 
a French dressing, and dip each slice into it, then lay on a lettuce- 
leaf between slices of Boston brown bread. 

Spinach Sandwiches 

Dkain the liquid from canned spinach, cover with boiling water, 
salting slightly, and boil for five minutes, after which drain very 
dry, pressing out all moisture. When cold, chop the spinach as fine 
as possible, seasoning with a little mayonnaise and pickled cucumber, 
minced into tiny bits. Spread between buttered bread-slices. 

Spinach and Anchovy Sandwiches 

Drain canned spinach as directed above, squeezing out every 
drop of juice after boiling for five minutes. While hot, beat into 
a cup of spinach a heaping tablespoon ful of melted butter, salt 
to taste, and a dash of white pepper. Rub in now a tablespoonful of 
anchovy paste, or an equal quantity of boned and chopped anchovies. 
If the paste is used, do not put the suggested salt into the spinach. 
When you have a smooth paste, spread it on the crustless slices of 
bread. 

Fruit Sandwiches 

Mix together three tablespoonfuls of canned cherries, — stoned 
and chopped fine, the same quantity of canned and grated pineapple, 
and a tablespoonful of canned and minced apricots. Drain all the 
fruits dry from the liquor in which they were canned, and mix with 
a tablespoonful of very thick, clotted cream. Spread between thin 
crackers, and serve at once. 

Strawberry Sandwiches 

Drain canned strawberries, cover with sugar and set at the side 
of the range until the sugar is dissolved. Simmer for five minutes, 
take out the berries, add two tablespoonfuls of the strawberry liquor 
to the melted sugar and boil until a little dropped into cold water forms 
a ball between the fingers. Beat the whites of two eggs very stiff, and 
pour upon it gradually, beating all the time, the hot syrup, and as soon 
as this is all used, beat into the mixture the strawberries. Spread be- 
tween thin crackers. 

Green Pea and Egg Sandwiches 

Drain a cup of canned green peas and cover with salted, boil- 
ing water. Cook until soft, drain and rub to a smooth paste with the 
yolks of two hard-Loiled eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and melted 
butter and spread between thin slices of white bread. 

Page Thirty-five 




PICKING STRAIVBERRIES 

The luscims fruit is gathered fully ripe from the vines and canned fresh and crisp at 

nature perfected it for our enjoyment 



Page Thirty-six 




^HgZ.^<s^ 




Chicken Croquettes 

Open a can of chicken some hours before using. Chop the 
meat fine, seasoning it with celery salt and white pepper. Cook together 
in a saucepan a tablespoon ful, each, of butter and flour, and when 
they are thoroughly blended pour upon them a cup of rich milk, — 
part cream if you have it, — to which a pinch of baking soda has 
been added. Stir to a smooth white sauce, then add the minced 
chicken, season to taste, adding a pinch of nutmeg and a dash of 
lemon juice. When the chicken is smoking hot add to it gradually 
a beaten egg and take from the fire. Set aside until cold, and form 
into croquettes of uniform size. Roll each of these in beaten egg, 
then in cracker-dust and set in the ice-chest until they are very cold 
and the coating on them has stiffened. Fry in deep fat to a golden 
brown. Arrange on a platter and pour about the croquettes a 
white sauce into which a tablespoonful of minced parsley has been 
stirred. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Cut, not chop, the contents of a can of chicken into small 
pieces. Make a white sauce as directed in the last recipe, adding to 
it a gill of oyster-liquor. Butter a pudding dish and put in the bottom 
of it a layer of cut-up chicken, well seasoned, and scatter over this 
a layer of fine crumbs, then cover with the white sauce. Put in 
another layer of chicken, more crumbs and more sauce. Proceed 
in this way until all the ingredients are used. Sprinkle the surface 
of the scallop with fine crumbs, dot with bits of butter, and set in 
the oven. Cook until well browned. 

Chicken Salad 

Open a can of boneless chicken, and turn the contents into 
a bowl. Set this on the ice until chilled, first cutting the chicken 
into pieces a half-inch square. Measure the amount of chicken and 
to two cups of it allow a generous cup of crisp celery cut into bits. 
Mix the chicken and the celery together, seasoning with salt, pepper 
and a French dressing. Line a salad-bowl with lettuce-leaves, put 
the salad into it and pour over all a good mayonnaise dressing 
Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Barbecued Ham 

Cut canned lunch ham into smooth slices. Put into a sauce- 
pan a generous tablespoonful of butter, and, when this is melted, 
lay the sliced ham in it. Leave until the meat is smoking hot, and be- 
ginning to get crisp. Transfer to a heated platter and keep hot 
while you add to the grease in the pan two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
a teaspoonful of sugar, a half-teaspoonful of French mustard, a dash 
of paprica and, last of all two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Stir to the 
boiling point, pour over the fried ham and serve. 

Page. Thirty-seven 



Beef a la Milanaise 



^ 



TuPN A PIECE of canned beef into a roasting-pan, and pour over 
and around it a cupful of well-seasoned beef stock. Cover closely 
and cook for fifteen minutes or until the meat is heated through. 
Put it upon a warm platter and keep hot in the open oven. Put 
the pan with the liquor still in it on top of the range, add to it a 
great spoonful of stemmed sultana raisins and two tablespoonfuls of 
pine-nuts. Season with salt, pepper, and a tablespoon ful of brown 
sugar. Stir until very hot, thicken slightly with browned flour, and 
stir in a tablespoonful of sherry. Pour over the heated beef. 

Hot Beef Loaf With Bananas 

Turn the contents of a two-pound can of beef into a chop- 
ping bowl, and chop line, adding as you do so a slice of cold boiled 
ham and a dash of paprica. Moisten with well seasoned stock or 
gravy and form into a loaf, adding a beaten egg to hold the mixture 
together. Put into a roasting-pan, and cover the meat-loaf with 
bananas sliced lengthwise. Pour a little gravy or stock about the 
meat, and cover closely. Cook until very hot, and until the bananas 
are soft all through. Transfer carefully to a platter, thicken the 
gravy and pour about the loaf. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Turn the meat from a can of corned beef, and set in the ice- 
chest for several hours. Put through the meat-grinder and to a pint 
of the ground meat allow a cup of hot mashed potatoes. Put all 
together in a frying-pan, add a little boiling water and a generous 
lump of butter. Toss and stir until smoking hot, season to taste 
with salt, pepper and onion-juice, and serve very hot, granished 
with small triangles of toast. 

Cannelon of Corned Beef 

Grind or chop canned beef, and add to it a tablespoonful 
of tomato catsup, a tablespoonful of blanched or chopped al- 
monds, and two tablespoonfuls of minced celery. Mix well, and add 
enough rich gravy to moisten the mixture. Form into a loaf, pour 
gravy over it and set in the oven until very hot. Serve with the 
gravy poured over and around it. 

Chicken Tamale With Tomato Sauce 

Turn out the contents of a can of chicken tamales, and drain. 
Lay the tamales in a double-boiler, and, when very hot, transfer to 
a deep dish and pour over them a cup of well-seasoned and thickened 
tomato sauce. Serve immediately. 

Ox Tongue With Champignons 

Take the ox-tongue from the can and drain off the liquor. 
Put the tongue into a vessel set in an outer vessel of boiling water, 
cover closely and steam until very hot. Cook together a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of browned flour, and pour upon 
them one-and-one-half cups of beef stock that has been skimmed 
carefully, and seasoned well. Stir to a smooth brown sauce, add a 
wineglassful of sherry and lay the tongue in this sauce, turning it 
over until thoroughly coated with the gravy. Put the tongue on a 
deep platter ; add a can of champignons drained from their liquor, to 
the gravy, bring to boiling-point and pour it over the tongue. 

Page Thirty-eight 



Beef In Batter 

Turn out the contents of a can of beef and cut into slices. 
Put into a bowl a tablespoonful of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of 
salad oil, a saltspoonful of salt, and a quarter-saltspoonful of white 
pepper. Mix well, and lay in this dressing the sliced beef. Leave 
for an hour, or longer. Drain dry, dip each slice into fritter-batter, 
and drop into deep, boiling fat. Cook to a golden-brown and serve 
very hot. 

Chicken Curry in Rice Cups 

Boil a cup of rice until tender, in slightly-salted water, drain, 
and while hot, pack it into muffin-cups or tins, first greasing these 
slightly. Press the rice down as hard and firm as possible. Set 
aside until cold and put into a cold place for twelve hours. With a 
teaspoon scoop out the rice carefully from the centre of each tin, 
leaving a thick wall of rice about the sides and a half inch thickness 
at the bottom. Turn these rice-cups out upon a deep platter, and set 
this over a vessel or pan of boiling water in a hot oven. Cover 
closely and get very hot. Open a can of curried chicken, drain off 
the liquid, chop the meat fine, then return it to the liquid in which 
it was canned, and put into a saucepan. Stir until very hot, add 
a gill of thick tomato sauce, and fill the rice cups with this mixture. 
Serve at once. If it is liked, a tomato sauce seasoned with curry- 
powder may be poured about the base of the rice cups. 




PICKING STRING BEANS 
In two hours time they will be in hermetically sealed cans, fresh and tender as from the 



Page Thirty-nine 



v^r >-"— ' 



Table of Con 



Page 

SOUPS 

Clam Chowder 7 

Cream of Spinach Soup 8 

Cream of Tomato Soup 9 

Cream of Corn Soup 8 

Cream of Pea Soup 8 

Lobster Bisque 7 

Oyster Bisque 7 

Oyster Stew 7 

Tomato and Corn Broth 9 

FISH 

Broiled Oysters 10 

Buttered Shrimps 13 

Creamed Oysters 10 

Clam Fritters 11 

Devilled Crabs 12 

Fried Oysters 10 

Lobster a la Newburg 11 

Lobster Croquettes 11 

Lobster Pates 12 

Panned Oysters 11 

Scalloped Oysters 10 

Salmon Steak 12 

Salmon Cutlets 12 

VEGETABLES 

Asparagus on Toast 18 

Asparagus Tips 18 

Asparagus Cups 19 

Baked Tomato Omelette 16 

Beets with Vinegar Sauce 16 

Beets Stuffed with Peas 16 

Boiled String Beans 16 

Boiled Spinach 18 

Corn Oysters 13 

Corn and Tomatoes 13 

Corn Croquettes 13 

Corn Omelette 14 

Corn Pudding 13 

Creamed Beet^ 16 

Creamed Spinach 18 

Devilled Tomatoes 15 

Green Pea Fritters • .17 

Green Pea Balls 17 

Peas and Carrots, Creamed .... 17 

Pea SoufSe 17 

Rice with Cheese and Tomatoes 

15 

String Beans with Brown Sauce. 17 

Spinach and Eggs 18 

Stewed Corn , 13 

Scalloped Tomatoes ■ • • ; 14 

Tomatoes, Corn and Green 

Peppers 14 

Tomato Toast 15 

Tomatoes Pried in Batter.... 16 
Tomatoes and Eggs 16 

SALADS 
Bean, Beef and Spinach Salad. 21 

Beet and Celery Salad 20 

Crab Salad 21 

Macedoine Salad 20 

Siilmon Salad . . . . : 20 

Salmon and Cucumber Salad.. 21 

Shrimp Salad 21 

Spinach and Egg Salad 21 

Tomato and Peanut Mayon- 
naise 21 

Tomato and Green Pepper 

Salad 20 

DESSERTS 
Apple Scallop 23 





014 524 833 4 



iiiiii I 

Apple 
Apple 
Apricoi 

Apricot onerbet 26 

Apple Pie 28 

Apricot Pie ^29 

Brown Betty '. '. 23 

Brandied Peaches .'31 

Chili Sauce ! ! 33 

Cream of Apricots ! ! ' 24 

Cherry Pie ! ! 29 

Cherry or Berry Tarts. . . ! ! ' ' 29 
Frozen Apricot Whip.... 26 

Fruit Cocktail 27 

Gooseberry Chutney ..!!!!!! '33 

Huckleberry Pie 29 

Pickled Cherries 33 

Pineapple Pudding . . .'. 22 

Peach Batter Pudding 23 

Plum Sago Pudding.... 24 

Peach Cornstarch Pudding. 25 
Pineapple and Peach Glaces. 27 

Pumpkin Pie 27 

Peach Cream Pie . . . . 28 

Pineapple Pie 28 

Plum Cream Pie ....'.] 28 

Peach Pie 29 

Preserves, Sweet Pickles',' Etc' ' 29 

Preserved Cherries 30 

Preserved Apples 30 

Preserved Pineapples .'. 30 

Peach Marmalade .... 31 

Preserved Peaches 30 

Preserved Plums ' " 30 

Peach Ice Cream 26 

Pickled Peaches ! 32 

Pickled Pears 32 

Pickled Plums 32 

Pickled Beets Z2 

Mixed Jam ! 32 

Raspberry Sherbet ......... .26 

Raspberry Jam ] ' 31 

Spiced Pear Preserves 33 

Spiced Plums 33 

Spiced Tomatoes i 33 

Strawberry Mousse .27 

Strawberry Surprise . .26 

Strawberry Spanish Cream. . . .24 

Strawberry Float 25 

Strawberry Pudding ! .22 

Tutti-Frutti with Whipped- 

Cream 25 

Tutti-Frutti Ice Cream 27 

Tomato Pickles 32 

Pickled String Beans 34 

Tomato Catsup 34 

Salmon Sandwiches 35 

Tomato Sandwiches 35 

Spinach Sandwiches 35 

Spinach and Anchovy Sand- 
wiches 35 

Fruit Sandwiches 35 

Strawberry Sandwiches 35 

MEATS 

Barbecued Hamv 37 

Beef a la Milanaise 38 

Beef in Batter 39 

Chicken Croquettes 37 

Chicken Curry in Rice Cups.. 39 

Chicken Salad 37 

Chicken Tamales with Tomato 

Sauce - 38 

Hot Beef Loaf with Bananas.. 38 
Ox Tongue with Champignons. 38 
Scalloped Chicken 37 




■73 



Hi 



