W¥'^ 



';'/'■: ''Mr 



J 



] 






'; 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

lilllll 



D0D057D74bfl 



i 



i! 



•i 









V V 



^^. .,\^' 






> 







\ mM' J'%^ -'^^/ #^ 







O^ * , , s * »A- 












<!"> 'o e * ' 



^^ 






..^" :^ 








Vo "V.^-^ 



/ J" ^c> \'W^/ .0 ' "'^; 



' .^ 






\^ 



>^ o » a « *>, .<* 












<^ 








"-. 



'.^■^^ 



.r'~^;* A^' 



o V 

°^ "•' J^ \ "■' '' 






^ .' 



0^ ^o/-"' 



.^"^ „ * o . ""-^^ ' " ' .^''' . . / . , "'^^ O'^ - - » '"^- 









' vS^ 




O. 



•J^' , 



•1 



^" 



"V 



.-?;•' s^. 



LIGHT ENTERTAINING 

A Book of Dainty Recipes 
FOR Special Occasions 



SANDWICHES 
BEVERAGES 
CANDIES 
CHAFING DISH 
RECIPES 



EDITED BY 

HELENA JUDSON 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE BUTTERICK PUBLISHING COMPANY 
BuTTERiCK Building 

NEW YORK 



\ 1 



1*^ 



Copyright. 1910, by 
THE BUTTERICK PUBLISHING COMPANY 

NEW YORK 



'CLA:^78u38 



CONTENTS 



SANDWICHES 

SANDWICHES OF MEAT, FOWL AND FISH 

EGG SANDWICHES 

SALAD SANDWICHES .... 
CHEESE SANDWICHES .... 
NUT .\ND SWEET SANDWICHES 



1 

3 

7 

8 

9 

11 



COLD BEVERAGES 13 

FRUIT BEVERAGES 14 

CORDIALS, BEERS, ETC 19 

MILK AND EGG DRINKS 21 

ICED TEA, COFFEE AND CHOCOLATB 22 



CANDIES 

FRENCH CREAM CANDIES 

CARAMELS 

MISCELLANEOUS 

MEDICIN.\L 

TAFFIES . 

PASTES . 

SALTED AND CANDIED NUTS 



25 
30 
34 
36 
41 
42 
46 
48 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 53 

EGG DISHES '55 

FISH DISHES 57 

ME.\T, FOWL AND GAME . 60 

VEGETABLES 64 

CHEESE DISHES 65 

SAVEETS 66 



SANDWICHES 



^ 



Classification 



MEAT, FOWL AND FiSH 



EGG 



SALAD 



CHEESE 



NUT AND SWEET 




liRtAD ANM> KLMTFR SA N I l\V I C II KS, TWO SI.K HS Ol' Will IK UKKAD Willi 
AN INNliK SLIli; UF MOS FUN IlKOWN l;Kl;Al) 




IKIANCI I.AK SI.U i;S OF" RYE 1;RKA1), 1-II.I,K1> WTIIi (REAM CHEKSK AND 
I)i;(()RATKIl WITH HALF- A SllFFKU llLU-F; 










CHAPTER I— SANDWICHES 

'HE old fashioned sandwich, which consisted of a slice of 
cold meat laid between two shces of buttered bread, has 
little in common with the sandwich of to-day. Nowadays 
sandwich-making is a veritable art, and admits of much 
originality. 
Not only is the modern sandwich more pleasing to look 
upon than the old-time affair, but the dainty arrangement of 
chopped meat or fowl, fish paste or minced vegetables, is much 
more easily eaten. No embarrassing gristle or fibre ever enters 
into a well made sandwich and it is as easily disposed of as a freshly 
baked biscuit. 

Bread for sandwich-making should be of close, even grain, and 
at least a day old. Where the use of fresh bread is unavoidable, 
a heated knife will faciHtate the work of cutting in thin slices. This 
precaution is taken when rolled sandwiches are made from fresh 
bread. Wheat, rye, graham, entire wheat or brown bread may 
all be used for sandwiches, but discretion must be used as to just 
what particular filling combines best with these different varieties 
of bread. 

Utensils 

In families where many lunches are prepared or much enter- 
taining done, the work of making dainty sandwiches will be 
lessened materially by the purchase of a bread slicer. A meat 
chopper is also almost an essential of modern sandwich-making, 
for into it may go all sorts of sandwich material, — to come out 
of a consistency easily spread on the thinly sHeed bread. Meat, 
fowl, vegetables, — all are more easily handled after having 
passed through one of these grinders. 

The butter used in the making of sandwiches should be creamed. 
This is easily done with a warm silver fork or a wooden spoon. 
If hard butter is used the thin bread invariably tears. Many 

1 



persons prefer to trim the crust from the entire loaf before be- 
ginning to cut it in slices. By this method, one economizes in 
butter, but the loaf, free of crust, is not so easily handled, unless 
quite stale. The first, third, and every alternating slice should 
be buttered on the loaf. It will be easily seen that if every slice 
were spread before cutting, they would not match when placed 
together. It is necessary to spread only one slice where the 
bread is shaved very thin. Some persons prefer to spread more 
butter on a single slice, than spread two slices with a thin layer. 
This saves time and the result is practically the same. 

Sandwich Butters 

What are known as "sandwich butters" are much liked and 
may be used either alone or in connection with a regular sand- 
wich filling. These ''sandwich butters" are made by creaming 
ordinary butter and mixing with it finely chopped or pounded 
parsley, chives, cress, horseradish or cheese, selecting a flavor 
which is best suited to the filling to be used should the sandwich 
butter not be considered sufficient. These appetizing butters 
are largely accountable for the subtile flavor of many carefully 
made sandwiches. 

Sandwich Fillings 

Almost every material known to the epicure is now utilized 
for sandwich filling, and still manufacturers are every now and 
then adding some delicious concoction to the already long list. 
Among the favorite made filhngs are the fish pastes. Anchovy, 
bloater, sardine and shrimp mixtures are now in the market to 
say nothing of the hundred and one potted and deviled meats 
and different varieties of fowl. The majority of these come in 
neat jars, but of late many have been brought upon the market 
in collapsible tubes which are the latest thing in modern luxury 
for the automobile lunch or the picnic. Where one prefers to 
prepare the sandwich filling at home, eggs form a staple material 
on which to display originality. Flaked fresh fish, well seasoned, 
can easily be prepared at home for a delicious sandwich filling. 
Green sandwiches made from chopped celery, green peppers, 
or from a single leaf of dressed lettuce or romaine, are among the 
favorite fillings of this class. Sandwich material, of all kinds, 
is improved by mixing with some salad dressing before spreading 

2 



on the bread. Where sweet sandwiches are desired, all manner 
of jams and marmalades may be pressed into service and thin 
slices of sponge cake may be substituted for the bread. 

Canapes 

Anj^ of the mixtures used for sandwiches may be acceptably 
spread on pieces of bread which have been fried in a little butter 
or olive oil, and left uncovered, in the form of a canape. These 
are much used at the beginning of a dinner or luncheon and are 
often called "appetizers." 

Shapes 

Dainty squares and triangles are the shapes most used for 
sandwiches, but there is always the fancy cooky cutter to resort 
to when more unusual effects are desired for any particular 
occasion. 

When sandwiches are to be kept for several days, as in travel- 
ing, each one should be neatly wrapped in paraffine paper. 
When sandwiches are to be used within a few hours, they may 
be placed in a pile and the whole wrapped in a moist napkin. 

SANDWICHES OF MEAT, FOWL, AND FISH 

Chicken Sandwiches 

ONE cupful of cold chicken; one teaspoonful of melted butter; 
two eggs (yolks only) ; one teaspoonful of rich stock ; one 
teaspoonful of lemon juice ; salt and pepper. Boil the eggs 
fifteen minutes, cool them, take out the yolks, and mash them 
as fine as possible. Add to these the melted butter and lemon 
juice, the chicken chopped very fine, salt, pepper and the stock. 

Chicken Sandwiches (French). 

Chop the white meat of one boiled chicken very fine and pound 
to a paste, adding one-half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of red 
pepper. Soak one table-spoonful of gelatine in one tablespoonf ul 
of cold water for fifteen minutes, then add six tablespoonfuls of 
thick cream ; stand this mixture over the teakettle for a moment 
to dissolve the gelatine, and beat it slowly into the chicken. Set 
aside to cool, smoothing into an even mass. When cool divide 
into squares; cut these squares into very thin sUces and arrange 

3 



them neatly over buttered thin shoes of bread, cover with another 
thin shce of bread, and cut into fancy shapes, remo\'ing the 
crusts. Serve in lettuce leaves to keep the sandwiches moist. 

Chicken and Mayonnaise Sandwiches 

Chop the white or the dark meat (as preferred) of the chicken 
very fine, mix it with a mayonnaise, and spread bread or biscuit 
with the paste, using no butter. 

Chicken and Tongue Sandwiches 

Chop cold boiled tongue and chicken. Take equal ciuantities 
and mix with each pint of meat one-fourth cup of melted butter, 
the yolk of one egg beaten, a little black pepper, and one teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce. Spread this over the buttered bread 
and trim off all the crust. 

Chicken and Celery Sandwiches 

Grind both dark and light meat in a meat grinder and then 
mix with either mayonnaise or boiled salad dressing. Add half 
as much diced celery as there is chicken, and enough green pep- 
pers, minced, to give a suggestion of their pungent flavor. 
The bread need not be buttered, when salad dressing is used. 
This is excellent either on rye or entire wheat bread. 

Club Sandwiches 

Remove the crusts from thin slices of white bread and toast. 
Spread with mayonnaise dressing, lay on a lettuce leaf, a slice 
of breast of cold chicken, then a slice of broiled bacon. Cover 
with a second sfice of toast. Serve hot. 

Cold Roast Beef Sandwiches 

To each one-half pint of finely chopped cold roast beef add one 
teaspoonful of salt, one-half tables]:)oonful of tomato ketchup, 
one-half teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and rub in one table- 
spoonful of melted butter. Spread on buttered bread and cut 
into fancy shapes 

Caviare Sandwiches 

Spread thinly sliced bread with the caviare, mixed with finely 
chopped onion and seasoned with lemon juice. 

4 



Crab Sandwiches 

Flake some cold boiled crab meat. Mix with French dressing 
or mayonnaise until a paste is formed. 

Fish Sandwiches 

Anchovy, sardines, or fresh boiled fish may be used for sand- 
wiches. These are better pounded to a paste, with a few drops 
of lemon juice added during the pounding. Fresh white fish, 
like cod, halibut or haddock, may be nicely seasoned with salt 
and pepper, moistened with a httle mayonnaise or even a plain 
white sauce, and then put between two layers of white bread, 
nicely buttered. 

German Sandwiches 

Mix finely chopped dill pickles and Bologna sausage. Spread 
on thin slices of rye bread which have been spread with butter 
creamed with a little made mustard. Cut into finger strips and 
serve on lettuce leaves. 

Ham Sandwiches 

Ham should always be chopped before spreading in sand- 
wiches, as this obviates any trouble with gristle. Season with 
made mustard and a little lemon juice. 

Indian Sandwiches 

Remove the skin and bones from the sardines } pound the meat 
to a paste ; add one teaspoonful of anchovy paste, one dash of salt 
and red pepper, and rub in the hard boiled yolks of six eggs. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. 

Lobster Sandwiches 

Boston brown bread may be used. Cut the meat of one cold, 
boiled lobster into dice. One hour before using, dust with salt, 
red pepper, and either lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. Near 
serving time put a goodly layer of the lobster over one piece of 
bread, cover with another, press the two together, cut in triangles 
and serve. 

Lamb or Mutton Sandwiches 

Put through a meat grinder cold boiled mutton or roast lamb. 
Add a few chopped capers or olives, whichever are preferred, 

5 



1/ 



and reduce to a paste with a little salad dressing. If the flavor 
of mint is liked, the filling may be seasoned with a little mint 
sauce, or bruised mint leaves. 

Salmon Sandwiches 

Mix the contents of one can of salmon with a mayonnaise dres- 
sing, about one-half cupful being sufficient for the small-sized cans. 
In removing the fish from the can take out as little oil as possible. 
Mince the fish fine, bones and all, the bones being chalky in 
their preserved state. Add the dressing, mixing well. Remove 
the soft inside crumbs from a number of French rolls and fill 
the space thus made with the fish mixture. 

Sardine Sandwiches 

Drain the oil from sardines and throw the fish into hot water. 
In a few minutes they will be free from all grease. Dry in a 
cloth and remove the skins ; pound the sardines till reduced to 
paste ; season with pepper and salt and add some tiny pieces 
of lettuce leaves; spread between thin, buttered slices of bread. 
Or, chop the sardines fine, scineeze a few drops of lemon juice 
over them and spread in the usual way. 

Shad Roe Sandwiches 

Among the daintiest and most palatable of fish sandwiches 
are those made of shad roe. Throw the roe into boiling water, 
add one slice of onion, and one teaspoonf ul of salt ; simmer gently 
for about thirty minutes and drain. With a fork remove the 
membrane. Add one-fourth pound of melted butter, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. The 
mixture may then be spread on thin slices of brown bread and 
butter, or filled into rolls. 

Sweetbread Sandwiches 

Parboil the sweetbreads and place on ice. Put through a 
potato ricer. Make a paste by adding cream, and season with 
lemon juice, white pepper, salt and a few grains of cayenne. 
Finely chopped celery or cucumber makes a dehcious addition 
to this sandwich filling. 

6 



Tongue and Veal Sandwiches 

Take equal quantities of cold boiled tongue and cold roast 
veal. Make into a paste by the addition of mayonnaise into 
v/hich has been stirred a little horseradish. 

Tongue Sandwiches 

Tongue sandwiches may be made by either chopping the 
tongue or cutting it into thin slices. Where the tongue is chopped 
it should be pounded as for chicken sandwiches, and highly 
seasoned. 



EGG SANDWICHES 

No. 1 

MOISTEN the mashed yolks of hard boiled eggs with a "^^ 
little olive oil and vinegar. Season with pepper, salt 
and dry mustard. Add the chopped whites and mix all 
thoroughly. This is especially good on graham bread. 

No. 2 

Cut hard boiled eggs in thin slices and lay on lettuce leaves 
which have been coated with mayonnaise. Cover this filling 
with a second lettuce leaf and then the second slice of thinly 
cut bread. 

No. 3 

Chop hard boiled eggs very fine and mix to a paste with 
mayonnaise, or boiled salad dressing. Butter thin slices of 
bread with parsley butter which is easily made by adding finely 
chopped parsley to butter which has been creamed. 

No. 4 

Fry an egg so hard that there will be no moisture to the yolk. 
If fried in bacon use a little of the fat to mix with the egg when 
chopped. The white should be crisp and a delicate brown which 
imparts a specially delicious flavor to the sandwich. This is 
not so digestible a sandwich as others made of egg, but is pre- 
ferred by many on account of the flavor. 

7 



SALAD SANDWICHES 

X TNDER the head of salad sandwiches all forms of meat 
I J may be placed on lettuce leaves, put between two 
slices of bread and tied together with ribbon, or held 
by means of a toothpick, or the slices may be pressed together, 
and the crusts trimmed. Romaine, sorrel, endive and escarole 
may be substituted for lettuce in making these salad sandwiches. 

Dill and Celery Sandwiches 

Cover thinly sliced white or rye bread with a mixture made 
of chopped dill pickles and celery. Moisten with salad dressing. 

Olive Sandwiches 

Take equal parts of plain and stuffed olives. Put through 
a meat grinder, mix with mayonnaise and spread. 

Ripe Olive and Pimento Sandwiches 

Take equal cjuantities of ripe olives, stoned, and canned pi- 
mentoes (sweet red peppers). Chop very fine. 

X^ Onion Sandwiches 

Select very mild onions. Slice very thin and lay in ice water 
for a half hour before using. Season with pepper and salt. 
These are delicious as a filling for Boston brown bread sandwiches. 

Cucumber and Onion Sandwiches 

Take ecjual parts of chopped cucumbers and mild raw onions. 
Moisten with salad dressing and spread on rye or graham bread. 

Spinach Sandwiches 

Chop cold boiled spinach very fine. Mix with mayonnaise 
dressing and chopped yolks of hard boiled eggs. 

Harlequin Sandwiches 

Cream butter and into it mix chopped parsley, capers and 
green peppers. Use enough of the vegetables to make the butter 
a decided green. Flavor with i^epper, salt and a little cayenne. 
By cutting the bread very thin, and insetting a slice of brown 
bread between two of white, an effective and appetizing sand- 
wich is made. 

8 



Green Pepper Sandwiches 

Prepare a sufficient number of sweet green peppers by removing 
carefully every seed and the white fibre. Put through a meat 
grinder. Mix with mayonnaise and a little minced celery. 
This mixture may be spread direct on the buttered bread, or a 
small lettuce leaf may be laid on first. 

Chili Sandwiches 

Mix Chili sauce with finely chopped celery. With the scissors 
cut lettuce or romaine into narrow ribbons, lay on the bread and 
spread with the mixture. 

Nasturtium Sandwiches 

Take the small young leaves of the nasturtium, also a few petals 
of the flowers. A few drops of French dressing are sufficient 
seasoning, as the leaves have a dehcious, pungent flavor, 

Water-Cress Sandwiches 

Thoroughly wash the cress and dry it in a cloth; cut it into 
small pieces, and mix with finely chopped hard boiled eggs sea- 
soned with salt and pepper. Spread between thin, buttered 
slices of bread, sprinkUng the cress and eggs very hghtly with 
lemon juice. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Neapolitan Sandwiches 

THIS is a pretty sandwich when finished, showing an inner 
sUce of brown bread between two of white. Butter the 
white bread with creamed butter mixed with a httle 
mustard or horseradish. On one of these slices lay a thin slice 
of brown bread which has been spread with cream or cottage 
cheese. The other side of the brown bread may have the same 
cheese, or if variety is liked, try anchovy or sardine paste, or any 
of the potted meats. Cover with the second slice of white bread. 

American Cheese Sandwiches 

Slice the cheese so thin that it is a mere shaving. Sprinkle 
on a little paprika and salt. Mustard may be added, if liked. 

9 



Grated Cheese Sandwiches 

Grate any firm cheese and reduce to a paste with creamed 
butter. Cut entire wheat bread in finger strips and spread with 
this paste. This sandwich is delicious seasoned with anchovy 
essence, paprika and mustard. 

Mock Crab Sandwiches 

Mix grated cheese and anchovy paste. Season with dry 
mustard, salt and paprika. Soften with a teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar and spread between thin slices of dry toast. 

Brown Bread Sandwiches 

Cut bread very thin and spread with paste made from grated 
cheese and sardine or sardellen paste. If a salt taste is liked, 
bloater paste may be used. Season with a little made mustard. 
Chopped gherkins may be added to this combination with good 
results. 

V Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 

Mix equal quantities of grated cheese and chopped English 
walnut meats. Season with a few drops of lemon juice, paprika 
and salt. 

Cheese and Horseradish Sandwiches 

Spread thinly cut white bread with cream cheese into which 
has been stirred sufficient fresh cream to make a paste. Spread 
the bread first with butter, then with a thin layer of horseradish 
and then add the cheese filling. 

Welsh Rarebit Sandwiches 

Make a paste of mild American cheese, butter and enough ale 
or cream to soften sufficiently to spread. Season with mustard, 
paprika and salt. Spread on well buttered bread. When ale 
or beer is used in softening, the resulting flavor is much like 
Welsh rarebit. 

Cheese and Lettuce Sandwiches 

Dip a small, white leaf of lettuce into French dressing. Lay 
between very thin slices of buttered brown bread which have 
been previously spread with cream cheese made into a paste 
with cream. 

10 



NUT AND SWEET SANDWICHES 

THIN slices of bread are delicious spread with any jam, "T 
marmalade, or chopped preserved or candied fruit. 
Chopped nuts, either salted or plain, may also be used for 
sandwiches. The combination of nuts and fruit is particularly 
good. 

Peanut Sandwiches 

Put the meats of roasted peanuts through a coffee mill, or 
chop fine by hand. The red skin should previously have been 
removed. Soften to a thick paste with port wine or sherry. 
Add a little salt, and spread on either white or rye bread. 

Peanut Butter Sandwiches 

To one-half box of peanut butter, allow a dozen olives chopped 
very fine. Season with lemon juice, salt, and a few drops of 
Worcestershire sauce, if liked. This is good on any kind of bread. 

Walnut and Celery Sandwiches 

Take equal quantities of chopped English walnut meats, and 
hearts of celery. These must be chopped so fine as to be almost 
like a paste. Moisten with mayonnaise dressing and spread 
on thin slices from a round loaf of Boston brown bread. By 
boiling chestnuts slightly, and then chopping, chestnuts may be 
substituted for the walnuts. 

Nut and Fig Sandwiches 

Take equal quantities of chopped figs and almonds. Make 
a paste by using a little thick sweet cream. These sandwiches 
may be rolled or cut into fancy shapes. Figs may be out with 
a pair of floured scissors, or the chopper may be floured to prevent 
sticking. 

Pecan and Date Sandwiches 

Remove the pits from dates and also the fibrous white lining. 
Chop fine with an equal quantity of pecans or English walnuts. 
Use cream or a little wine to form a paste and spread on thin 
bread, as usual. 

11 



Ginger and Orange Sandwiches 

Equal quantities of crystalized ginger and candied orange 
peel should be chopped so fine as to make a paste when mixed 
with a little cream. If the flavor of orange is liked, a httle of 
the juice may be used. Spread on thin white bread, roll and 
fasten with a toothpick, or tie with tiny ribbon which comes 
for the purpose. 

Scented Sandwiches 

Scented sandwiches, such as clover, nasturtium, rose and 
violet, are made as follows : Trim the crusts from a loaf of bread, 
put it into a large soup tureen in a bed of clover (or any highly 
scented flower) ; wrap the butter in a piece of cheese-cloth and 
put it also in a tureen ; cover with clover. Next day butter and 
bread will be filled with the flavor and odor of clover. 

Raisin Sandwiches 

Chop candied lemon peel with an equal quantity of seeded 
raisins. Moisten to a paste with lemon juice and spread oa 
thinly buttered slices of white bread. 

Marmalade Sandwiches 

On thin slices of delicate browned toast spr«ad thick mar- 
malade. Serve either cold or hot. 

Fancy Bread Sandwiches 

Follow any good recipe for the making of entire wheat bread, 
add a httle molasses, and, before letting it rise the second time 
knead into the dough thoroughly, raisins, chopped nuts, can- 
died orange peel or cherries. This bread is adaptable to many 
varieties of fancy sandwiches. The simplest way to utilize it 
is to spread thin slices with orange marmalade or any kind of 
thick jam, putting the filling well in the center of the shce, so 
that it will not extend over the edge when the sandwich is pressed 
together. Cut in fancy shapes and lay in overlapping rows on a 
pretty plate. Each sandwich should be decorated to harmonize 
with the bread used, or the filling. Bread to which nut meats 
have been added should have each sandwich garnished with a 
half nut meat. Where fruit has been added to the bread dough 
a half cherry or a raisin may decorate each sandwich. 

12 



COLD 
BEVERAGES 

Classification 

FRUIT BEVERAGES 

CORDIALS, BEERS, ETC. 

MILK AND EGG DRINKS 

ICED TEA, COFFEE 
AND CHOCOLATE 




SNOWHALLS SHANKI) ICE MADK INK) liAI.LS ANIJ SERVED 
IN GLASSES OF LliMONADE 




CHAPTER II— COLD BEVERAGES 

I OLD drinks, unlike hot ones, are usually better for being 
prepared several hours in advance of the time they are 
needed. Especially is this true where several flavors 
are combined, for the perfect blending of the ingredients 
is not a thing to be quickly arrived at. Even simple lem- 
onade is much improved by having the lemon juice and 
sugar stand for a time before adding the water, while many experts 
in the matter of concocting simple drinks, claim that lemonade 
should be boiled and set aside to cool several hours before 
serving. 

While lemonade is, perhaps, the best known and most frequent- 
ly used of all cold drinks, there are many other delicious fruit 
preparations which are easily made at home. All kinds of fresh 
berries and other small fruits, when suitably combined, are 
especially acceptable as summer drinks, and involve but little 
time or trouble. 

Too much attention cannot be given to the manner of serving 
cold beverages. They should delight the eye before ever a drop 
has been tasted and a little ingenuity and good taste are all that 
are necessary to attractive arrangement and serving. Tall lemon- 
ade glasses and low punch cups are to be had at all prices, from 
the best of cut glass down to the attractive colonial glass which 
is to be found in all the prettiest shapes and at prices possible to 
all. Small glass plates are also inexpensive and are much prettier 
than china plates for holding glasses. They look cooler and 
daintier even though they may cost no more. There should 
also be a glass bowl to match for holding chopped ice. 

Decorations 

There is no end of artistic ways of decorating the glass pitcher 
or bowl in which a "fruit cup" or punch is served. Nothing 
is prettier than to twine the top of the pitcher with small grape 
leaves, choosing a spray with many spiral tendrils. A cluster 

13 



of grapes may decorate the top of the handle, in a position where 
it will not interfere with the proper holding of the pitcher when 
serving. Carefully selected fresh berries, shreds of pineapple, 
half circles of sliced lemon and orange, Maraschino cherries, 
sprigs of fresh mint, — all these and others add beauty to the 
summer beverage. A strip cut lengthwise of a crisp cucumber 
is not only an attractive touch of color, but it adds a subtile and 
most delicious flavor to many of the mixed beverages. 

When serving individual glasses of any cold drink, it is a 
pretty fancy to moisten the rim of the glass and invert it over 
coarsely granulated sugar. A circle of frosty crystals will be 
the result. A tin shaker should be used for most individual 
drinks, and this must invariably be used with all egg drinks. 

Necessary Supplies 

In families where it is the custom to offer cold beverages to 
summer callers, a plentiful supply either of long handled spoons 
or straws should be kept on hand, as well as a supply of several 
kinds of fresh fruit. Maraschino cherries and mint. The latter may 
easily be cultivated in a window box if a garden is not available. 
Crushed mint leaves are an improvement to many cold drinks, 
and a fresh spray standing erect in each glass always looks cool 
and particularly inviting. Bottles of plain charged water, kept 
always on the ice during warm weather, make soda water a 
domestic possibility at a moment's notice. Vichy is also much 
used in the mixing of cold drinks. 



FRUIT BEVERAGES 

Plain Lemonade 

TAKE two lemons to a pint of water. Divide the lemons 
in half, and, after washing them, squeeze dry in a lemon 
squeezer. Remove all seeds. Put the juice in a pitcher 
or punch bowl, with sugar to taste, add water and several lumps 
of ice. When thoroughly chilled serve in tall glasses filled with 
chopped ice. A thin slice of lemon and a Maraschino cherry 
may float on each glassful. 

14 



Sparkling Lemonade 

Same recipe as the foregoing, using plain bottled soda water, 
instead of water. 

Boiled Lemonade 

For an occasion where previous preparation is desirable, this 
lemonade is to be recommended. After the lemons are care- 
fully washed, divide each, and, before squeezing, cut a slice 
from each half and set aside for garnishing. Squeeze the lemons, 
place the juice in an agateware saucepan and add one quart 
of boiling water for the juice of every four lemons used. Sugar 
to taste. Add one cup of water in which the shaved rind of one 
lemon has been steeped. When all is hot, put away in a jar to 
cool. Serve with plenty of ice and attractive garnishings of 
slices of lemon and cherries. 

Pineapple Lemonade 

Use recipe for plain lemonade adding two tablespoonfuls of the 
juice from a fresh and very ripe pineapple to each pint of lemonade. 
Cubes of pineapple should be used for a garnish. 

Orange Lemonade 

This may be made after the recipe for plain lemonade except 
in this case allow equal quantities of orange and lemon juice 
and garnish with thinly sliced oranges. 

Ginger Lemonade 

Mix equal quantities of strong lemonade and ginger ale. 
Garnish with Maraschino cherries and tiny shreds of crystaHzed 
ginger. 

Lime-Ade 

Use the same recipe as for plain lemonade except that more 
sugar is required to make it palatable. The juice of the lime 
is very tart and refreshing as the foundation of a summer drink. 

Red Raspberry and Currant Cup 

Bruise a pint of fresh ripe raspberries with one quart of red 
currants which have been thoroughly washed and stemmed. 
Put in an agateware saucepan over a moderate fire and let it 

15 



heat slowly until the boiling point is reached. Remove and 
strain through a jelly bag. Dilute with water according to 
taste. Pour into a punch bowl in which is a good sized lump 
of ice and decorate with fresh raspberries, currants and mint 
leaves. 

Pineapple Punch 

Make a syrup by boiling two pounds of granulated sugar 
with a pint of water. When it spins like a thread, remove from 
fire. Add the juice of two pineapples and six lemons. When 
thoroughly chilled, add sufficient water to dilute according to 
taste. This is better if made the day before and the syrup and 
fruit allowed to stand before adding the water. Either plain 
or charged water may be used. 

Southern Nectar 

Take one lemon, one pineapple, and a quart of milk. Squeeze 
the lemon and crush the pineapple. Strain the juice through 
double cheesecloth. Add the milk and sugar to taste. This 
is better if mixed with a shaker and served quickly. Have cubes 
of pineapple in each glass and serve with a spoon so that the 
fruit may be eaten. 

'Cherry Ambrosia 

Take the pulp of a ripe pineapple. Shred finely and sprinkle 
with granulated sugar. To this add a quart of very ripe red 
cherries which have been stoned, two sliced bananas and two 
limes cut in small pieces. Either plain or carbonated water 
may be added just before serving. 

Grape Juice Punch 

Peel and slice a very ripe pineapple. Take four lemons and 
four oranges. Remove the seeds and slice very thin. Place 
the fruit in the punch bowl and sprinkle liberally with sugar. 
Add two thin strips of the rind of a crisp cucumber and cover 
the fruit with grape juice. Add a large lump of ice and just 
before time to serve, dilute with either plain or charged water. 

Canton Ginger Punch 

Pour one quart of water over one-half pound of chopped 

]6 



Canton ginger. Add one cupful of sugar. Place in an agate- 
ware saucepan and boil for twenty minutes. Remove from the 
stove and add one- half cupful each of lemon juice and orange 
juice. Strain through double thickness of cheesecloth and set 
aside to cool. Serve in tall glasses half full of finely chopped ice. 
Maraschino cherries are the best decoration for this punch, 
though fresh berries may be added in season. 

Cider Punch 

To one quart of the best pippin cider add a bottle of Club 
soda. Have read)^ thinly sHced tart apples and fresh mint. 
Bruise the mint leaves, allowing a fresh sprig for each glass as 
a garnish. The slices of apple should be served with each glass 
and a long spoon provided so that the fruit may be enjoyed. 

Cider Cup 

Into a pitcher put two teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda and 
two ounces of powdered sugar. Over them pour one quart of 
clear, sharp cider. A very pleasant effervescent drink will 
result, not unlike domestic champagne. 

Mint Punch 

Take one cupful of granulated sugar. Add the juice of a 
half dozen lemons and stir until the sugar melts. Put in three 
peeled lemons sliced very thin. Place on ice until ready for use. 
Add one dozen sprays of fresh mint and plenty of cracked ice. 
Pour into a pitcher or punch bowl and add three bottles of ginger 
ale. If a very decided flavor of mint is desired, the leaves may 
be slightly bruised. 

Sparkling Lemon Punch 

The proportions to be allowed for serving twenty-five persons, 
are as follows: Three dozen lemons, three pounds of sugar, six 
oranges, one box of strawberries and one pineapple. Squeeze 
and remove the seeds from the lemons and put into the punch 
bowl with the sugar, stirring until dissolved. Shred the pine- 
apple, slice the oranges very thin and prepare the berries. Add 
all the fruit to the sweetened lemon juice, put in a big piece of 
ice, and at the last moment add four quarts of any kind of charged 
water. 

17 



Claret Cup 

Peel and slice one-quarter of a crisp cold cucumber; add the 
juice and thin rind of two lemons and three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar ; mix well and pour over it three tablespoonfuls of brandy 
and six of sherry ; set on the ice for an hour. Just before 8er^'^ng 
add a pint bottle of claret and a bottle of Vichy. 

Claret Cup No. 2 

Mix one quart of claret, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, cup 
of orange juice, two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Six sprays 
of mint and one-half a cucumber rind. Have these ingredients 
thoroughly chilled. Just before serving add one quart of charged 
water which has also been cooling, and sugar to taste. This 
must never be added until the moment of serving. 

Sauterne Cup 

Mix two cups of sauterne, three tablespoonfuls of Curapoa, 
one-half cup of sugar, and the shredded rind of one small orange 
and a lemon. After the rind of the fruit has soaked in the 
liquor for an hour or so, strain, add a quart of cold charged 
water of any kind, and garnish with mint, Maraschino cherries 
and thin slices of orange. 

Mint Julep 

Steep several sprigs of fresh mint in a cupful of boiling water. 
Strain and add to this liquid a syrup made from one quart of 
water and two cups of sugar. Add one cup each of orange 
and strawberry juice, and one-half cupful of lemon juice. When 
thoroughly chilled on ice, add one pint of claret. Dilute with 
water according to taste and garnish with sprigs of mint, allowing 
one to each glass. Dip the rim of each glass in granulated sugar, 
having previously moistened the rim so that the sugar will 
adhere. This makes an attractive and delicious drink. 

Mint Julep No. 2 

Take one-half teaspoonful of orange bitters in a glass with 
three leaves of the mint. Crush the mint in the bitters and add 
one sherry-glass of Italian vermuth and one sherry-glass of rye 
whiskey. Fill the glass with cracked ice and put on the top a 
thin slice of orange and a spray of mint. 

18 



CORDIALS, BEERS, ETC. 

Grape Juice 

ALLOW one quart of water to three quarts of ripe, stemmed 
grapes. Cook slowly until the boiling point is reached. 
Then strain through a closely woven jelly bag or cloth. 
Place the liquid over the fire, and, when it again reaches the 
boiling point, pour into glass preserve jars. Close tightly and seal. 
This mixed with ice water makes a delicious summer drink. 
The light green Niagara grapes may be prepared in this way 
and are a pleasant variety from the usual pui-ple grapes. 

Red Raspberry Cordlal 

Take two and one-half quarts of ripe red raspberries and over 
them pour one quart of best cider vinegar. After standing for 
three days mash the berries and strain through fine cheesecloth. 
To each pint of liquid allow one pound of granulated sugar. 
Boil for fifteen minutes, skim, and place in air tight jars or bottles. 
This cordial may be used in ice water with a plentiful amount 
of cracked ice, and, where possible, garnished with the fresh 
berries. The same recipe may be followed with black raspberries, 
cherries or other small fruits. 

Fresh Berry Punch 

Take two quarts of fresh berries — strawberries or red rasp- 
berries preferably. Mash the berries and pour over them three 
quarts of water and the juice of two lemons. Mix thoroughly 
and allow to stand in a cool place for three or four hours. The 
mixture should then be strained, and sweetened to taste. This 
is delicious served in tall glasses filled with chopped ice, or in 
small glass punch cups with a few fresh berries floating on the 
top. 

Ginger Ale 

In a stone jar place one ounce of ginger root, bruised and 
boiled, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of an ounce of cream 
of tartar, two lemons cut in slices, and one gallon of boiling water. 
Cover with a cloth, and when cool stir, in a third of a pint of 
yeast. Let it stand in a warm place twenty-four hours, then 
strain and bottle. Tie the corks down with wire. 

19 



Grape Juice High Ball 

Wash and stem six quarts of the delicately colored Niagara 
grapes. Put them over the fire "uith a quart of water and allow 
them to simmer gently until boiling point is reached. Remove 
from the fire and strain. Return this liquid to the fire and again 
allow it to reach the boiling point. Bottle immediately while 
boiling hot. This is a delicious and unusual drink, served in a 
glass almost filled with chopped ice. Its color makes it especially 
attractive. When correctly made the juice should be the palest 
green imaginable, and very clear. 

Root Beer 

Take one-eighth of a pound each of sarsaparilla root and dry 
sassafras bark and one and a half ounces of wintergreen, stem 
and leaf ; bruise, and add a half-ounce of tansy leaves and boil 
in two and one-half gallons of water until all the strength of the 
herbs is extracted. Strain and add one pint of molasses. When 
cool add one gill of yeast, after two hours add two and one-half 
gallons of warm water. In five or six hours it will be ready for 
bottling. Keep in cool place. 

Root Beer No. 2 

Many root extracts are now procurable for the making of root 
beer. These lessen the work materially, and, when a thorough- 
ly reliable firm put out the extract, the formula given may usual- 
ly be depended upon. It is safe to lessen the quantity of water 
a little but otherwise follow directions. Such beer is ready for 
use a week after made. 

Hop Beer 

Steep two quarts of dry hops very slowly for two hours in two 
quarts of water. Strain, add two more quarts of water, one quart 
molasses, three tablespoonfuls of ginger, one tablespoonful of 
wintergreen essence and last of all one cake of compressed yeast. 
Let all stand in an earthen jar for twelve hours. Strain and 
bottle tightly. 

Summer Beer 

Stir thoroughly eight gallons water, two quarts molasses, one 
bottle of porter and one tablespoonful of Jamaica ginger. Keep 
on ice. 

20 



MILK AND EGG DRINKS 

Egg Lemonade 

FOR all egg drinks a tin shaker is necessary. To make a 
single glass of egg lemonade express the juice from half 
a large lemon, or use an entire small lemon. Sugar to 
taste. Break in a fresh egg and nearly fill the tall glass with 
chopped ice. Invert the glass in the tin shaker and mix thoroughly. 
Add suflScient water to fill the glass, shake again and serve at 
once. 

Milk Sh.ike with Egg 

To make an individual glass of this drink, sweeten enough 
rich milk to almost fill a tall glass. Flavor with a few drops of 
vanilla extract. Into the milk break a raw egg, fill the glass 
with finely chopped ice, invert in a shaker and shake vigorously 
before serving. 

Plain Egg-Nog 

For an individual glass, add to the beaten yolk of one egg a 
level tablespoonful of sugar, a few grains of salt, and one table- 
spoonful of any preferred liquor. Rum, sherry or brandy are 
most used for this purpose. Add a cupful of cold, rich milk. 
Strain, and just before serving add the stiffly beaten white of the 



Coffee Ego-Nog 

To each glass allow one egg, one teaspoonful of sugar, a little 
salt and a small cup of coffee. Beat the egg until foamy, add 
the sugar, salt, and coffee. Dilute with as much cream as liked 
and shake in a tin shaker the last thing before serving. 

Koumiss 

Put two teaspoonfuls of sugar in a cup of warm milk in which 
has been dissolved a half a yeast cake. Fill a bottle three quarters 
full of warm milk and into this pour the yeast mixture, allowing 
for effervescence. Shake vigorously, wire the cork down firmly 
and invert the bottle in a room where the temperature is seventy 
degrees. In twenty-four hours it may be placed in the refrig- 

21 



erator and in another day will be ready to use. This is a most 
nourishing beverage and is much hked by some people as a 
summer drink. 

Matzoon 

Buy the prepared matzoon at any drug store. Allow a quart 
of milk to one and one-half ounces of the matzoon. Mix thorough- 
ly and place in a jar where the temperature will be from seventy 
to eighty degrees. In about twelve hours it will begin to thicken 
like junket. At this point it should be beaten with an egg-beater 
for five minutes. Bottle, allowing space for effervescence, and 
cork tightly. Keep on ice. 



ICED TEA, COFFEE, CHOCOLATE 

Iced Tea 

^HE brand of tea used must, of course, be governed by per- 
sonal taste. A safe rule to follow is to mix equal quanti- 
ties of green and black tea. Make a little stronger than 
tea which is not to be diluted with ice. When made set in a 
cold place until needed. Serve in pretty glasses filled with cracked 
ice and place a thin slice of lemon in each glass. The addition 
of bruised mint leaves or a few cloves makes a little variety and 
is usually acceptable. 

Tea Punch 

To a large pitcher of strong tea add one pound of sugar, the 
juice of six lemons and two oranges. Bruise several sprays of 
mint, reserving a few perfect ones for garnishing. Thoroughly 
chill, and, when serving, dilute with charged water. The addition 
of a little rum improves this punch for some people. 

Iced Coffee 

Make clear, strong coffee, either by percolating or in the old 
faslaioned manner. Sweeten and place on ice. When serving, 
add a little cream and place a tablespoonful of plain vanilla ice- 
cream on top of each small glass cup. Lacking ice-cream, use 
whipped cream. 

22 



Iced Chocolate with Whipped Cream 

Mix two squares of grated chocolate with a cupful of sugar 
and one of water. Put into a double boiler and cook until it 
is a thick syrup. Remove from the fire, put in a teaspoonful 
of vanilla and place on ice. When ready to use put two table- 
spoonfuls of the chocolate in a glass half full of cracked ice, fill 
with milk and shake vigorously with a metal shaker. Remove 
and put a tablespoonful of whipped cream on top of each glass. 



23 



CANDIES 



Classification 
FRENCH CREAM CANDIES 
CARAMELS 

MISCELLANEOUS 

MEDICINAL 

TAFFIES 

PASTES 

SALTED AND CANDIED NUTS 




h-'^i^ ^i: ^' J 



c:n''}:^ 







AN ATTKACTIVE \\'AV TO (IFFER ASSORTKl) CHOCOLATES 




A DISH 01-- UAINTV HOME-MADE I'EI' I'FRMINTS 




CHAPTER III— CANDIES 

'HERE is no more actual skill needed to make good candy 
than is required to mix and properly bake a delicate cake, 
and no more judgment is necessary than is used by the 
housewife in deciding the exact moment for removing a 
kettle of jelly from the fire. Successful candy-making 
depends almost entirely on knowing just when the sugar 
is boiled to the right degree. If boiled too little, the candy will 
not harden. If the boiling is arrested at some intermediate stage, 
the mass will stick to the teeth. Unless one goes to the expense of 
purchasing a sugar thermometer, such as confectioners use, and 
makes a real study of the various stages of boiling, some practice 
will be necessary in order to acquire the requisite skill, for it certain- 
ly requires experience to recognize the exact moment at which 
to arrest the boiling. 

For the home candy-maker, the four essential stages of sugar 
boiling are all that it is necessary to recognize, although manufac- 
turers and some expert home workers in confection, are familiar 
with several more. 

The four important stages are: 
"Thread" 

Dip a spoon into the boiling syrup and throw a little of it 
upward. When it spins a thread, this first point is reached. A 
few ebullitions more and the thread will draw a little further. 
This is a second stage of the "thread." 

"Ball" 

Drop a little of the syrup into cold water. If, with the thumb 
and finger the mass can be worked into a soft ball, this second 
degree has been reached. "Hard ball" requires a little further 
boiling and testing in the same manner. 

25 



"Crack" 

Test as before by dropping a little into cold water. If it breaks 
off sharp and crisp and crackles when bitten, this third degree 
has been reached. 

"Caramel" 

If the mass assumes a yellow tint and shows a tendency to 
burn, the fourth stage has been reached. Boiling must be at 
once stopped by placing the kettle in a pan of cold water. 

As these different degrees follow each other in quick succession 
after the "thread" stage has been reached, great care must be 
given to the cooking and every precaution taken to prevent too 
rapid boiling. To moderate the heat an asbestos mat or a stove 
lid may be placed under the candy kettle. Even if the boiling 
passes the right degree, the sugar need not be wasted, for water 
may always be added and the mass re-boiled. Then, when the 
right degree is reached, place the kettle in a pan of cold water to 
arrest further cooking. Candy that has grained can also be boiled 
again and the material saved. The rule of adding a small quantity 
of cream of tartar, in the proportion of a half a saltspoonful to every 
pound of sugar, is an old one and is said to do much toward pre- 
venting sugar from granulating. 

Some General Rules 

When making any kind of molasses candy, always butter the 
inside of the kettle around the top. The molasses will then boil 
no higher than the buttered Hne. Plenty of room should always 
be allowed for boiling, and it is a good rule to use a kettle holding 
four times the quantity of molasses called for by the recipe. For 
dark nut candies, caramels, taffy or molasses candy, brown and 
yellow sugars are best. These can also be used for hard candies 
that are to be colored. In making French cream candies by the 
process that requires no cooking, confectioners' sugar must be 
used. This is as soft as finely powdered flour, while the ordinary 
powdered sugar will disclose a slight grain if rubbed between the 
finger and thumb. Never undertake to make cooked fondant 
on a damp day. Atmospheric conditions have much to do with 
the success of this work. Molasses candy may be made in all 
kinds of weather. 

26 



Necessary Utensils 

An iron kettle, porcelain lined, a copper, or an agateware one, 
should be chosen for a candy kettle. A palette knife with a 
thin blade is the best thing with which to scrape kettles or pans. 
A wooden "pudding stick" or a large wooden spoon is an indis- 
pensable implement. A discarded marble top from an old table 
or bureau is a valuable asset for the candy-maker, but, lacking 
this, a large platter will answer the purpose. Where a marble 
slab is used it can be divided into compartments of the necessary 
size, suited to the thickness the candy is to be and the amount 
of material to be poured in. These divisions can be made by 
placing iron bars on the marble slab. 

Molding Small Candies 

For the candy-maker who does not object to some extra trouble, 
a little molding contrivance for forming bonbons and other 
small candies can be arranged in a box cover. Fill this lid with 
cornstarch and imprint the surface with a button of the size it 
is desired the candies should be. These indentations should be 
made at regular intervals. The liquid candy is then dropped 
from the tip of a spoon into each little mold. When cold, remove 
each candy and dust free from starch. The same cornstarch 
can be used several times by stirring it each time and pressing 
in new molds. French cream candies can be pinched into fanci- 
ful shapes with the fingers or cut with tin cutters dipped in flour 
or starch to prevent sticking. 

To Dip Bonbons 

Many of the French bonbons are made by using centers of 
French cream fondant mixed with various materials, nuts, cocoa- 
nut, cherries, and the like. Only sufficient fondant is used to 
cover whatever is to be the center of the bonbon. These centers 
should stand for several hours, over night, if possible, before 
being dipped. When ready to dip, place fondant in a small 
pan set in a larger one of hot water. When soft, drop the centers 
in one at a time, and, when thoroughly coated with the fondant, 
remove by means of a two-tined fork or a regular bonbon dipper. 
A little practice is necessary in bringing the end of the fondant up 
over the top of the bonbon, and finishing it in the proper way. 

27 



Centers may be dipped twice or oftener, if size is wanted, allowing 
the bonbon to cool between each dipping. 

Harmless Colorings 

All vivid colorings should be avoided. They are seldom liked 
and usually eyed with suspicion. Fruit colorings are among the 
best. Several different shades of yellow may be arrived at by 
using the grated rind and a little of the juice of varying types of 
oranges. Lemon gives a very pale yellow. The yolk of an egg 
gives a still different tint. Cranberry juice gives either pink 
or red, according to the quantity used. Caramel, cocoa and 
chocolate give various shades of brown. Green may be made 
from cooking parsley or spinach in a little water. This should 
be strained through cheesecloth before using. 

Fondant (Cooked) 

Fondant is the basis of all fine French cream bonbons. The 
ingredients are simple and practically always the same, as follows: 
two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of water and a 
scant half teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Put these ingredients 
into a copper or an agateware saucepan and stir until the sugar 
is dissolved, but no longer. This is an essential. Have ready 
a brush or sponge, and as the boiling throws up a thin line of 
crystals around the edge of the kettle remove them and on no 
account allow these to drop again into the boihng sugar. This 
would mean the granulation of the entire mass. The forming of 
large bubbles is a sure indication that testing time is near. Have 
ready a wooden skewer and a cup of ice water. Wet the skewer, 
dip it into the boiling sugar and then back into the water. If 
the sugar remaining on the skewer can be molded into a soft 
ball between the thumb and finger, it is time instantly to stop 
the boihng. 

Pour the mass on an oiled marble slab or a large platter. 
No crust should form if the boiling has been arrested at the proper 
stage. Should a crust form, either remove it, or else add water 
and re-boil. When the mass is cool enough to dent when pressed 
lightly with the finger, begin working it with a wooden pudding 
stick or paddle. When it is too stiff to make this possible, begin 
to knead the mass as you would dough. It should be light and 
creamy when finished. Fondant should be made if possible 

28 



at least one day before it is required. If made several days in 
advance, it should be packed in an earthenware dish and covered 
with a moist cloth. This is not only used as a basis for various 
kinds of bonbons, but may be softened and used as a covering for 
nuts, fruits or other candies. To do this, place a small cjuantity 
of the fondant in a cup, set the cup in hot water and stir constant- 
ly until the fondant becomes of the consistency of molasses or 
cream. Stirring is essential as otherwise it would return to 
syrup. A drop or two of water may be used to soften the fondant, 
but very little is sufficient. 

Fondant (Uncooked) 

For this uncooked fondant confectioners' sugar is absolutely 
necessary. The formula, like the one for cooked fondant, is 
invariably the same. Break into a mixing bowl the whites of 
as many eggs as needed for the quantity of candy to be made. 
Add an equal amount of cold water and sufficient confectioners' 
sugar to make the mass stiff enough so that it may be easily 
molded in the hand. Before shaping divide in several portions, 
if desired, and flavor or color each differently. 

Fondant (Uncooked) No. 2 

This fondant can be used in the same manner as the formula 
just given except that it cannot be melted and used for coating. 
The ingredients are always the same. Take equal quantities 
of gum arable water and white of egg and stir in sufficient con- 
fectioners' sugar to form a smooth, creamy paste. Usually 
one and one-quarter pounds of sugar are required to each wlaite of 
egg. This fondant is capable of the usual changes of coloring, 
flavoring and molding. 

Maple Fondant (Cooked) 

Whatever the quantity needed the proportions for this fondant 
are always the same, viz. equal quantities of hot water and maple 
sjTup mixed with twice the quantity of brown sugar. Allow 
one-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar to every cup of hot 
water. An easy quantity with which to experiment is as follows : 

One cupful hot water 

One cupful maple syrup 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar 

29 



One-half teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Follow directions for boiling and kneading given in recipe for 
cooked fondant. 

CANDIES MADE FROM FRENCH CREAM FONDANT 

Chocolate Cream Drops 

TAKE French cream and mold into cone-shape forms wi1h 
the fingers ; then lay the cones on waxed paper or a marble 
slab until the next day, to harden, or make them in the 
morning and leave until the afternoon. Melt some chocolate (con- 
fectioners' chocolate is the best) in a basin, which place in 
another basin of boiling water. When melted, and the creams are 
hard enough to handle, take one at a time on a fork and drop into 
the melted chocolate, roll it until well covered, then slip from the 
fork upon waxed paper and put aside to harden. 

Another Way to Coat the Creams is as follows: 

Place a small quantity of fondant and an equal quantity of 
grated chocolate in a bowl, with a few drops of vanilla, and set 
the bowl in boiling water. When this mixture is melted, dip 
the creams in, and set them on paper as mentioned. 

Fig Creams 

Select a number of small figs, and quarter them, leaving the 
parts connected at the stems. Now color some fondant pink and 
flavor it with strawberry ; roll it out into strips, cut these into 
pieces the size of a small hickory-nut, place one piece in each 
fig, and press the quarters so they will adhere to the cream ; then 
crystalUze. 

Almond Creams 

Make an oblong roll of French cream and press into the side 
of it an almond-meat ; or blanch and chop the almonds and mix 
them through the cream. 

CocoANUT Creams 

Take some French cream, and while quite soft add fresh-grated 
cocoanut to taste ; add sufficient confectioners' sugar to mold into 
balls, and then roll the balls in the fresh-grated cocoanut. These 

30 



may be colored prettily with a few drops of cochineal syrup and 
a few spoonfuls of grated chocolate before rolling them in the 
grated cocoanut. The cocoanut cream may be made into a flat 
cake and cut into squares or strips. 

Cream Cherries 

Make a small round ball of French cream, cut a strip of citron 
the size of a cherry stem and put the ball of cream upon one 
end of it ; take a cherry glace, and cutting it in two, put one-half 
each side of the cream ball, and it will make a very pretty candy. 
They can also be made Uke walnut creams, using cherries instead 
of walnuts. 

Cream Dates 

Select perfect dates and with a knife remove the pit. Take 
a piece of French cream, make an oblong shape, and wrap the 
date around the cream. Roll in granulated sugar. 

English Walnut Creams 

Make French cream as previously directed. Have ready some 
English walnuts, taking care not to break the meats. Make 
a ball of the cream about the size of a walnut and place a half- 
meat upon either side of the ball, pressing it into the cream. 
Put them away for a few hours to dry. 

Fig Creams 

Cut nice, fresh figs into four or five strips, take a piece of 
French cream and roll it into a long roll in the palm of the hand, 
then with a knife cut it lengthwise and lay into it one of the strips 
and roll the cream around it. 

Fruit Creams 

Raisins seeded, currants, figs, and citron chopped fine, and 
mixed into French cream before the sugar is all mixed in, is a 
very nice variety. Make this into a flat cake about an inch thick 
and cut into oblong pieces or inch squares. 

Cream Raisins 

Having chosen some large, fine bloom raisins, divide each bunch 
into small clusters of five, cut each raisin half open with a pair 
of sharp scissors, and remove the seeds. Fill the opening with 

31 



a roll of cream, and press tlie sTcTes down ; and when all are done, 
dip the clusters into melted fondant or else crystallize them. 

Cream Figs 

Figs cut in half and dipped in melted fondant form very at- 
tractive and delicious bonbons. 

Citron Creams 

Carefully pare off all the sugared surface of citron and cut it 
into narrow strips. Now roll out a quantity of fondant with 
the rolling-pin into a sheet a fourth of an inch thick, and cut it 
into small cakes with a tin tube about an inch in diameter. 
Place a strip of citron on each cake, and fold the sides together 
over the citron. If desired, each roll may then be tied up with 
very narrow ribbon, and set aside to harden before crystallizing. 
These creams may be pleasingly varied by the use of nuts or 
candied or preserved fruits. 

Stuffed French Prunes 

Select nice, glossy prunes, cut a lengthwise sHt in each about 
two-thirds its length and remove the pit. Have in readiness a 
small quantity of fondant, and, having slightly dusted the board 
with flour or cornstarch, roll the fondant into a long, narrow 
strip about the size of the little finger; di\ade this strip into pieces 
about an inch long, roll them into long, smooth pieces, and place 
one of them into the opening in each prune, pressing the pulp a 
httle to retain the candy in place. Some prefer to roll the portions 
of fondant in granulated sugar before placing them in the prunes. 

Cre.\m Almonds 

Blanch a number of almonds thus: Pour boiling water over 
them and let it stand a few minutes ; then pour the water off and 
remove the brown skins. While the almonds are cooling, pre- 
pare a fondant as before directed, and divide it into two portions, 
coloring one pink. Roll the white portion into long, round 
strips, and cut them in sections an inch in length. Form these 
pieces into little round balls between the palms of the hands, 
press an almond into the center of each, and roll in granulated 
sugar. Proceed in the same manner with the pink or other 
colored fondant. 

32 



Nut Rolls 

Take equal parts of plain fondant and of walnut-meats, mix 
well, and form into a roll. Cover the roll with pink fondant, 
and the pink with white or chocolate, as preferred. Roll in 
granulated sugar, and when well hardened, slice crosswise. If 
the walnuts are too rich, hickory-nut meats may be substituted. 

Maple Sugar Cream 

Grate maple sugar, mix in quantities to suit taste with French 
cream, adding enough confectioners' sugar to mold into any 
shape desired. Walnut creams are sometimes made with maple 
sugar and are very nice. 

Neapolitan Creams 

Prepare some French cream and divide it into three parts, 
leaving one part white, color one part pink with a few drops of 
cochineal syrup, and the third part make brown with grated 
chocolate. Make a cake about half an inch thick of the white 
cream, which may be done with a roUing pin on a marble slab, 
or shaping it into a fiat ball and patting it to the desired thick- 
ness on the platter with the hand; do the same with the pink 
portion and lay it upon the white ; then treat the chocolate in 
the same manner, pressing all together. Trim the edges smooth 
and cut into slices or squares, as preferred. This is very pretty 
candy. Each layer may be flavored differently. 

Nut Creams 

Chop almonds, hickory-nuts, butternuts or English walnuts 
quite fine. Make the French cream, and before adding all the 
sugar, and while the cream is still quite soft stir into it the nuts, 
and then form into balls, or squares. Three or four kinds of 
nuts may be mixed together. 

Peppermint Creams 

Prepare the cream as directed under the heading of "French 
Cream," flavored liberally with essence of peppermint; take 
small quantities and shape into round flat forms. 

Wintergreen Creams 

Prepare the French cream as directed, and flavor with winter- 

33 



green. Color pink uath some cochineal syrup and form into 
round lozenge shapes. 

CARAMELS 

Coffee Caramels 

INTO an agateware saucepan put one pound of sugar and three 
tablespoonfuls of strong black coffee. Let this boil slowly 
until it forms a syrup. Into this stir a tumblerful of rich 
milk or cream and continue the boiling until the syrup is almost 
at the "cracking" point. Pour on a flat tin, or better yet, a 
marble slab which has been slightly buttered or oiled. When cold 
cut into squares and place in tin boxes if not to be immediately 
used. 

Vanilla Caramels 

One cup sugar (powdered) 
Two cups sugar (granulated) 
One and one-half cups sweet cream 
Two teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
One teaspoonful flour mixed with cream. 
Boil all together for half an hour. Pour into flat tins. When 
cool mark off in squares or long, narrow bars. 

Chocolate Caramels 

Cream together one-fourth pound chocolate, one-half teacupful 
of butter, one teacupful of sugar, one teacupful of molasses, one 
teacupful of sweet cream. Boil all together for twenty minutes. 
Pour into oiled tins and when nearly cold cut into any shape 
desired, using a greased knife. 

Sugared Chocolate Caramels 

Two cups of grated chocolate 

Four cupfuls of granulated sugar 

One and one-half cupfuls rich milk. 

Piece of butter the size of a hickory-nut 

One teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Let this mixture boil hard for seven minutes. Stir until it 
begins to sugar. Then pour into well buttered pans and cut as 
desired, preferably into squares. 

34 



Maple Caramels 

Make a rich maple syrup by boiling maple sugar with a little 
water. To three cupfuls of this syrup add two cupfuls of light- 
brown sugar, three tablespoonfuls of glucose, and half a cupful 
of boiling water. Stir all together well, and boil until it will 
"thread" when poured from a spoon, or will snap when dropped 
in cold water; now put in a cupful of rich cream and half a cupful 
of butter and let it boil, stirring all the time until done. As soon 
as the candy will harden when dropped in cold water, remove 
it from the fire and pour it out to cool. As soon as cold cut it 
up and wrap in paraffine paper. 

Opera Caramels — Vanilla 

Measure three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of cream, and a 
fourth of a small teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and boil the 
sugar and cream together, adding the cream of tartar, wet with 
a little cream, as soon as the syrup reaches the boiling point. 
Cook until a drop of syrup, hfted out on the point of a skewer 
and dropped into very cold water, may be rolled into a soft, 
creamy ball between the fingers. Care must be taken to stir 
the syrup incessantly, and also that the bottom of the pan or 
kettle does not come into direct contact with the fire, as the cream 
is very apt to scorch. When done, remove from the fire, flavor, 
and pour on a slab, sprinkled with a very little water. When 
cold, cream the candy as directed for fondant ; and as soon as 
perfectly smooth, form into a sheet half an inch thick, using 
the rolling pin. Let it remain on the slab a few hours, when 
divide into strips and wrap in paraffine paper. 

Opera Caramels — Maple 

Make the same as the preceding, but instead of granulated 
sugar use a cupful and a half each of "coffee A" sugar, and 
maple sugar. 

Opera Caramels — Chocolate 

Proceed as for vanilla caramels, but reserve one-fourth of the 
cream, in which dissolve a fourth of a cake of chocolate. Add 
the chocolate and cream when the caramel is half done, and 
finish as above directed. 

35 



Nut Caramels 

Grate one-fourth pound of unsweetened chocolate. Add one- 
fourth pound of butter and one pound light brown sugar. Into 
this mixture put one-half cupful of cream and one-half cupful of 
New Orleans molasses. Boil to the " crack " stage. Flavor with 
vanilla, if desired. At the last moment throw in one pound 
chopped nuts. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Buttercups 

ONE cup of granulated sugar. Two cups molasses and three- 
fourths cup of water. Add a small saltspoonful of cream of 
tartar. Put the ingredients in a saucepan and stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, but no longer. When the cooking has 
reached the "ball" stage remove from the fire and pour on- 
to a buttered marble slab or a large meat platter. When 
cool enough to handle pull until about the color of old fashioned 
molasses candy, or even lighter. Then lay on a floured board and 
pull into long, thin strips something less than an inch in width. 
On each of these lay a strip of French cream fondant and roll so 
that this filling is entirely concealed. Cut in small pieces with a 
pair of scissors, the fuiished pieces being almost square. 

Gum Drops 

Allow a pint and a half of water to one pound of gum arabic. 
When thoroughly dissolved, strain through fine cheesecloth. Add 
one pound of granulated sugar. Put over the fire just long 
enough to dissolve the sugar. Flavor and color as desired. 
When the mixture begins to stiffen drop into httle starch molds, 
as described in the introduction, under the head of "Molding." 
It will take a couple of days for these to harden suflftciently to 
handle. They should then be dusted free from the cornstarch, 
moistened slightly and rolled in granulated sugar. 

Orange Drops 

Juice and grated rind of one orange and just a pinch of tartaric 
acid. Add confectioners' sugar until the mass is stiff enough to 
form into small balls about the size of marbles. These are nice 

36 



to have on the dinner table with nuts and raisins and pepper- 
mints. 

CocoANUT Patties 

Boil together a pound of granulated sugar, and a cupful of 
water. When very nearly hard enough for taffy remove from 
the fire, and rub the candy against the sides of the kettle with 
a paddle or spoon until it assumes a creamy appearance; then 
add a pound of grated cocoanut, stir until almost cool and form 
into little pats with a fork. 

Penuchie (or Mexican Kisses) 

Boil one cup of milk and three cups of light brown sugar until 
a soft ball can be formed in cold water. Add one teaspoonful 
of butter and a little vanilla. Remove from fire and stir in one 
cupful of broken nut meats. Do not have these meats chopped, 
but leave them in rather large pieces, giving a rough surface to 
the candy when hard. Pour into a buttered pan and mark 
into squares or bars with a greased knife. 

Chocolate Fudge 

Three cups light brown sugar, one cup of rich milk or cream, 
two squares of grated chocolate and a piece of butter the size 
of an English walnut. A little vanilla extract. Cook sugar, 
butter and milk until they boil. Then add the chocolate and 
cook until it reaches the "thread" stage. Beat hard and pour 
into buttered pans. 

This recipe may be varied in many ways by the adding of a 
cup of nut meats, finely chopped, or a cupful of raisins, currants 
or chopped figs. The above recipe is a reUable rule to follow as 
a basis for any variations desired. 

Chocolate Fudge No. 2 

Stir together one large cupful of sugar, one cupful of grated 
chocolate, one-half cupful of milk and one-fourth of a cupful of 
molasses. Boil, stirring often until it reaches the "ball" stage. 
Remove from the stove, add a teaspoonful of vanilla, beat thor- 
oughly and pour into buttered pans to cool. This recipe may 
also be varied as desired by the addition of nuts and fruit. 

37 



•Maple Fudge 

Break one pound of maple sugar into small pieces and put it 
over the fire with a cupful of milk. When it begins to boil, 
add a teaspoonful of butter and boil to the " crack" stage. Take 
from the fire and stir until the mass begins to granulate around 
the edges. Pour into buttered pans and mark into squares 
with a thin greased knife. 

Layer Fudge 

This is a combination of a plain and a fancy fudge and may be 
made from any of the foregoing recipes. Make the fudge as 
usual and pour into the pans to cool. Then begin the operation 
over again, but in the second instance add to the finished fudge 
either fruit or nuts. Shredded cocoanut is particularly to be 
recommended Pour the second fudge over that already made, 
forming another layer If desired, a thin layer of cream fondant 
may be placed between the two varieties of fudge. Anyone 
with originality can devise numberless delicious combinations 
of this kind. 

Seafoam Candy 

This is a very good candy but requires practice to insure good 
results. Boil three cups of brown sugar, one cup of water and a 
tablespoonful of vinegar until the "crack" stage is reached. 
Have ready the beaten whites of two eggs. Pour the boiling 
mixture over the beaten whites and stir vigorously until the 
mixture holds its shape sufficiently to be dropped in spoonfuls 
on buttered pans. Flavor with vanilla. 

Variety may be gained by using chopped nuts or small pieces 
of fruit. 

Maple Syrup Candy 

One cup of maple syrup. One and one-half cups of granu- 
lated sugar. Piece of butter the size of an English walnut. 
Boil until it hardens in cold water. Flavor with a little vanilla 
and pour into buttered pans. 

Marshmallows 

Take four ounces of gum arable and soak in a cupful of water 
until thoroughly dissolved. Strain through fine cheesecloth. 

38 



Place the dissolved in a double boiler with a half pound of pul- 
verized sugar. Fill the outside vessel with boiling water and 
stir the mixture. When it is thick and will form a ball when 
tested, remove from the fire and add the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs. This gives it the characteristic spongy consistency. 
Flavor with vanilla or orange oil. The mass may then be dropped 
into indentations made in cornstarch, as described in the in- 
troduction under "Molding," or it may be turned into a pan 
thickly covered with cornstarch and allowed to become firm. 
Cut into cubes and dust thickly with cornstarch. 

Chocolate Marshmallows 

Follow the foregoing recipe. When the marshmallows are 
firm cut each in half and dip into chocolate of the consistency 
used for coating. Recipe for this will be found on page 30. 

Marshmallow Almond Nougat 

Make the marshmallow paste as described above and after 
taking from the fire add a half-pound of blanched almonds which 
have been cut into shreds with a pair of scissors. If the flavor 
of bitter almond is liked, three or four of these may be added 
to the other almonds. Allow this mixture to harden in corn- 
starch, as previously described, and when stiff enough to handle 
easily, cut into bars, roll each in cornstarch and wrap in paraffine 
paper. These are also frequently cut into oblongs and similarly 
wrapped. Orange-flower water is a flavoring especially suited 
to marshmallow confections. 

Marshmallow Nut Paste 

Prepare the marshmallow mixture as previously directed. 
Take several varieties of nuts, English walnuts, pecans and 
almonds preferably, and chop very fine. After taking from 
the fire stir this nut mixture in thoroughly and finish the opera- 
tion in any way preferred, by dropping into cornstarch molds, 
or allowing to harden and then dividing into squares or bars. 
A few bitter almonds may be added to this nut combination 
if the flavor is liked. Pistachio nuts give an attractive appear- 
ance to this candy and also a peculiar flavor of which some persons 
are very fond. 

80 



Puffed Rice Butter Scotch 

Take one-half cup of water, one cup of brown sugar, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar. When this 
mixture boils, add two tablespoonfuls of butter and continue 
the boiling until a little of it cracks when dropped into cold 
water. Remove from the fire and stir in three cupfuls of 
puffed rice which has previously been warmed in the oven. 
Stir until each separate grain is covered, then turn into buttered 
tins and cut as desired. If not to be eaten at once, this candy 
should be wrapped in parafiine paper. 

Puffed Rice Brittle 

Boil one-half cupful of water, one teaspoonful of vinegar and 
one cupful of granulated sugar for about five minutes. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of molasses, butter the size of an English 
walnut and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Continue boiling 
until the "crack" point is reached, when it will become brittle 
when dropped into cold water. Remove from the fire and stir 
in one-half package of puffed rice which has previously been 
made warm and crisp in the oven. Pour into buttered tins, 
and, when partially cool, mark off as desired, either in bars or 
squares. Wrap in paraffine paper unless to be eaten imme- 
diately. 

Pop-Corn Balls 

Boil together, without stirring, a pint of sugar, a fourth of a 
teacupful of water, a tablespoonful of vinegar and half a teaspoon- 
ful of butter. When the syrup will snap on being tested in water, 
pour it immediately over the corn and stir with the paddle for 
a minute or so. Then dip the hands into very cold water and 
press the pop-corn into balls, dipping the hands in the water 
before forming each ball. In this way the balls may all be shaped 
before the candy hardens on the corn. The above-named quan- 
tities are sufficient for a peck of popped corn, and will make ten 
balls. The corn must be carefully prepared, and all imperfectly 
popped or scorched grains thrown out. 

Pop-Corn Crisp 

Take a tablespoonful of butter, three of water, and one cupful 
of white sugar; boil until it is ready to candy and then add three 

40 



quarts of nicely-popped corn. Stir briskly until the mixture 
is evenly distributed over the corn. Keep up the stirring until 
it cools, when each kernel will be separately coated Close and 
undivided attention will be necessary to the success of this kind 
of candy. Nuts are delicious prepared by this method. 



MEDICINAL 

Old-Fashioned Cough Drops 

BREAK into small pieces two ounces of slippery elm bark. 
To this add the same quantity of flaxseed, place in a 
mixing bowl and pour in one-half pint of lukewarm water. 
Cover, stir once every ten minutes for an hour or so, and then 
strain through cheesecloth. Add this to one and one-half pounds 
of light brown sugar, set over the fire in an agateware sauce- 
pan, stirring until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, but no 
longer. When the mixture has boiled for about five minutes 
add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and boil until it cracks 
when a httle is dropped into ice water. Pour into buttered tins 
and cut with a greased knife into small squares. 

HoARHouND Drops 

Steep one-half ounce of dried hoarhound leaves in a large cup 
of boiling water. Stir occasionally, and, after an hour, strain 
through fine cheesecloth. To this add one pound of light brown 
sugar and two tablespoonfuls of hot water. Stir until the sugar 
is well dissolved, then add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and 
boil without stirring until a spoonful dropped into ice water will 
crack easily. Pour into buttered tins and when sufficiently cool, 
check off into squares with a buttered knife. This can also be 
cut into long narrow bars and wrapped in paraffine paper. 

Jamaica Ginger Drops 

In an agateware saucepan put a tablespoonful of boiling water, 
three and a half ounces of granulated sugar and a teaspoonful 
of powdered Jamaica ginger. Stir constantly while the sugar 
is dissolving and let boil without stirring for a couple of minutes. 
These may be dropped into cornstarch molds as described in 

41 



the introduction under " Molding " or the candy may be dropped 
on buttered letter paper and allowed to harden. 

Old-Fashioned Peppermint Drops 

Take some granulated sugar, and pour over it with a teaspoon 
just enough water to moisten it, so that it will drop from the 
spoon with difficulty. Place the sugar in a saucepan on the 
stove, and when thoroughly melted remove to the back of the 
range and stir in a handful of pulverized sugar until it assumes 
a milky appearance ; then add a few drops of oil of peppermint, 
and drop quickly on oiled paper or bright tin sheets. Do not 
touch until the next day. 

Licorice Jujubes 

Let one pound of gum arable stand in a pint of warm water. 
Strain and put in double boiler with one pound of granulated 
sugar and boil until it forms a soft ball when a little is dropped 
into ice water. Dissolve two ounces of the best Spanish licorice 
in a cup of hot water, strain, and add to the other ingredients. 
Remove any scum which may rise, pour into buttered tins, and, 
when cool mark into bars. Cut off into small pieces with a 
pair of scissors. 

TAFFIES 

Walnut Taffy 

BOIL a quart of New Orleans molasses and two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar until mixture will snap when tested. Take 
the kettle off the fire and stir in very gently two pounds 
of walnut-meats through which a fourth of a teaspoonful of soda 
has been rubbed ; then pour on a slab to cool, and smooth the 
top with a wooden paddle or spoon. When the taffy is nearly 
cold cut it into blocks with a sharp knife that has been well but- 
tered. 

Almond Taffy 

Melt half a cupful of butter in a saucepan, and add two cup- 
fuls of sugar. Boil until nearly done, when add a cupful of 
blanched and pounded almonds, and continue the boiling until 

42 



the candy will snap when tested. Pour upon a buttered dish or 
shallow pan, and divide into squares when cool. 

Peanut Taffy 

Boil together a cupful of light brown sugar, a cupful of New 
Orleans molasses, half a cupful of water, a tablespoonful of 
sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter. As soon as the syrup 
will harden immediately when dropped from a spoon into cold 
water, add three cupfuls of shelled, freshly roasted peanuts, 
through which has been rubbed haK a teaspoonful of soda. 
Pour the candy into buttered shallow tin pans, smooth the top 
nicely, and when nearly cold cut with a sharp, buttered knife 
into inch-wide bars. 

Peanut Taffy No. 2 

Take two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter, and one of vinegar. Put into a kettle 
to boil. Having cracked and rubbed the skin from the peanuts, 
put them into buttered pans, and when the candy is done, pour 
it over the nuts. Cut into blocks wlaile warm. 



Vanilla Cream Taffy 

Boil over a quick fire one pound of granulated sugar with a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar in a half pint of water, until when 
a little is dropped in some cold water it will crack. Pour on a 
buttered tin, and when cool enough pull until white. Flavor 
with vanilla, or wintergreen if the latter is preferred. Molasses 
taffy can be made by adding a half pint of molasses and a small 
piece of butter. 

Lemon Taffy 

Boil together two cupfuls of granulated sugar, half a cupful 
of water, three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and half a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar. When done, add a teaspoonful of lemon 
extract in which a quarter of a teaspoonful of tartaric acid has 
been dissolved, and pour the candy upon a buttered platter. 
When sufficiently cool to pull, butter the tips of the fingers only 
and pull until fight. 

43 



Peppermint Taffy 

Stir together three and a half eupfuls of granulated sugar, 
and a cupful of water, and boil until half done, when add a table- 
spoonful of butter. Boil again, and when the candy will snap 
in cold water, pour it upon a buttered slab or dish to cool. Flavor 
by dropping peppermint essence over the top. As soon as the 
mass has cooled sufficiently, pull until it is smooth and white. 
Now color a small portion of the i^uUed taffy pink by dropping 
some of the red coloring fluid upon it, and pull until it is of an 
even color throughout. Next pull the wliite taffy to a point, 
place small strips of the pink lengthwise upon it, and pull the 
whole until it is about the tliickness of stick candy, when cut in 
short lengths with scissors and place them on paraffine paper to 
cool. This work must be done rapidh^, as the candy soon 
becomes too cool to be easil}^ handled. 

Maple Taffy 

Place together in the kettle two pounds of maple sugar, a 
pound of brown sugar, half a pound of granulated sugar, and a 
pint of water, and stir until the mixture is dissolved. Boil 
until the taff}' will snap when tested in cold water ; then pour it 
upon a buttered dish or slab to cool. The cand.y may be checked 
off in squares, and, if preferred, it may be pulled until white. 

Chocolate Taffy 

Mix with two eupfuls of granulated sugar three eupfuls of 
grated chocolate, and half a cupful of boiling water. Boil all 
together until nearly done, add a piece of butter the size of a 
hickory-nut, and boil again until the candy vnl\ snap when pulled 
apart. Then remove from the fa-e, add two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla extract, and pour out to cool. Pull, and cut any shape 
and size desired. 

Cocoanut Taffy 

Place in the kettle two eupfuls of granulated sugar, half a 
cupful of water, and a piece of butter the size of a hickory-nut. 
Boil until nearly done, and then add two eupfuls of sliced or 
grated cocoanut that has been partly dried. Now boil the candy 
until it will snap when dropped into cold water; pour it into 
buttered tins, and when cool cut into bars. 

44 



Molasses Cocoanut Taffy 

Place in the kettle a scant cupful of New Orleans molasses 
and a tablespoonful of butter, and, when boiling, add a grated 
cocoanut. Cook over a slow fire, stirring until done. As soon 
as the hot candy will harden when dropped into cold water, 
pour it out between the bars upon a well-buttered slab ; and when 
hardened sufficiently, cut it into squares and wrap in paraffine 
paper. 

Butter Scotch 

Boil together a cupful of sugar, a cupful of molasses, half a 
cupful of butter, a tablespoonful of vinegar, one-fourth of a 
teaspoonful of soda. Stir frequently to prevent burning, and as 
soon as the syrup will snap when tested in water, remove it from 
the fire and flavor to taste. Pour it upon a buttered tin in a 
sheet a fourth of an inch thick, and when nearly cold, check 
it off into squares with a sharp knife. Separate the squares 
when cold and wrap them in paraffine paper. This is an excellent 
recipe, and so simple that any child will be able to follow it. 

Maple Syrup Taffy 

Boil two cupfuls of maple syrup until it will crack if dropped 
into cold water. Just before remo\'ing from the fire add a piece 
of butter about the size of a pigeon's egg. The candy may be 
rendered waxy, if preferred, by shortening the time allowed for 
cooking. 

Butter Taffy 

Two cups light brown sugar, four tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of water, one- 
fourth cup butter. Boil until it becomes brittle when dropped 
into cold water, then pour into pans and let it cool. 

Molasses Taffy No. 1 

Take two cupfuls of brown sugar, a cupful of molasses, half 
a cupful of water, and a tablespoonful of vinegar, boil together 
mitil nearly done, when add half a teaspoonful of soda that has 
been dissolved in a little hot water. Boil until the taffy becomes 
brittle when tested in cold water, and flavor just as you remove 
it from the fiu-e. This taffy may be pulled until it gUstens like 
gold. 

45 



Molasses Taffy No. 2 

Boil together until half done a quart of New Orleans molasses 
and a tablespoonf ul of glucose ; then add two tablespoonf uls of 
vinegar and a fourth of a pound of butter, and boil until done 
according to the tests mentioned above. Remove from the fire, 
add a fourth of a teaspoonf ul of soda, and pour out to cool. Pull 
until the mass is of a golden color. 

Molasses Taffy No. 3 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg. Boil hard, and test in cold water; when 
brittle, poiir in thin cakes on buttered tins ; as it cools mark in 
squares with the back of a knife. 

Pulled Taffy 

Take three cupfuls of granulated sugar, a cupful of \nnegar 
and water in equal parts (one-third vinegar and two-thirds 
water may be used if the vinegar is very strong) and a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut. Boil the sugar, water and vinegar 
together until half done, then add the butter, stirring only enough 
to incorporate the butter thoroughly, and boil until done. Drop 
a httle of the candy now and then into cold water, and test by 
pulling it apart; if it snaps it is done, and must be immediately 
poured upon a buttered dish to cool. Flavor with a little vanilla 
extract poured upon the top. When the taffy has cooled suf- 
ficiently to handle, it may be pulled, cut into short lengths 
and placed on buttered dishes or paraffine paper. 

EvERTON Taffy 

Boil one pound of best brown sugar in half a pint of water, 
until a little will harden if dropped into cold water; then add 
two ounces of butter and boil a few moments until it will harden 
again. Flavor with lemon, if desired. 

PASTES 
Fig Paste 

PLACE together in the kettle four cupfuls of granulated 
sugar, two quarts of water, and an eighth of a teaspoonful 
of citric acid. Bring to a boil, and add rather more than 
a quarter of a pound of starch that has been dissolved in 

46 



a little water; then flavor to suit the taste, color (if not 
desired plain), and boil, stirring incessantly. Test oc- 
casionally in cold water, and when the candy leaves the fingers 
readily on cooling it is done, and may be poured out on a buttered 
slab, on which the iron bars have been placed to keep the paste of 
the desired thickness. When cold, sift a little powdered sugar over 
it, and cut into small squares with a sharp knife. 

Almond Paste 

Place a pound of blanched almonds in a bowl, cover mth water, 
and let them stand three or four hours. Pour off all the water 
and pound the almonds in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding 
occasionally a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent oiling. 
Now place in the kettle four cupfuls of granulated sugar and 
sufficient water to melt it, and boil until the syrup will snap 
when tested as usual. Remove from the fire, add the almond 
paste, and stir continually until cold. The paste may now be 
placed in a stone jar and set aside until needed. It may be 
rolled into little balls and dipped in melted fondant, forming a 
delicious bonbon ; or it may be mixed with an equal quantity 
of plain fondant, tinted to suit the taste, and made up in a variety 
of ways. 

CocoANUT Paste 

Boil two cupfuls of sugar, a cupful of rich cream, an eighth of a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and half a good-sized cocoanut, 
grated. Stir continually, and as soon as the candy will form a 
soft creamy ball when rolled between the fingers in cold water, 
pour it upon a slab over which has been sprinkled a very little 
cold water. When the mass becomes cold, cream it, as directed 
for fondant, and press it smoothly into a pan, making it about 
an inch and a half thick. Leave in the pan over night to harden, 
and divide into neat slices. 

Turkish Delight 

Soak one package of gelatine in one cup of cold water for 
thirty minutes. Then let two pounds of granulated sugar come 
to a boil in one cup of boifing water. When sugar and water 
start to boil add the soaked gelatine, grated rind and juice of 
two oranges and juice of one lemon. Let this boil for twenty 

47 



minutes, then add one tablespoonful of cold water and one 
tablespoonful of lemon extract. Let substance cook five minutes 
longer, then remove from the fire and pour on a cold platter. 
Let this stand a minute or two, then add chop})cd nuts. Let 
all stand over night, then remove from the platter, roll in pow- 
dered sugar and cut into squares. 



SALTED AND CANDIED NUTS 
How To Blanch Almonds 

SHELL the almonds and throw them into a pan containing 
boiling water; allow them to remain in this on the fire 
until you find that on taking up one of the almonds you 
can easily squeeze off the skin by pinching the almond between 
the finger and thumb; then drain off the water, cool the almonds 
in cold water, drain them again, and, as you rub off the skins with 
j^our hands in a cloth, let the almonds be thrown into cold water 
with a little salt, and when washed clean, drain and dry them. 

Salted Almonds 

First blanch some almonds, and have them thoroughly dry; 
put a small piece of butter with a little salt into a pan, then pour 
in the almonds; place the pan in the oven, stirring from time to 
time to prevent burning. When they become fight brown they 
are done. 

Salted Almonds No. 2 

Place a pound of blanched Jordan almonds in a coarse sieve 
or corn-i^opper, and shake them rapidly over the fire until roasted 
to a yellow tint. Throw them into a basin, pour in some dis- 
solved gum arabic, and stir thoroughly with the paddle until all 
the almonds are well coated with the gum ; then sprinkle them 
with fine salt, remove carefully from the basin and spread them 
on a pan to dry. 

Salted Filberts 

Remove the shells and pour boiling water over the meats. 
Let them stand until cool, and take off the skins. Put a small 

48 



piece of butter with a little salt in a pan, and then add filberts. 
Place the pan in a (|uick oven and stir often to prevent burning. 
When nicely browned they are quite ready. 

Salted Peanuts 

Salted peanuts are so good and so inexpensive that they are 
often used as a substitute for the more expensive salted almonds. 
To prepare salted peanuts, shell and drop into boiling water. 
This will cause the red skins to drop off. Dry on a soft cloth, 
place in a pan and pour melted butter or olive oil over them. 
Sprinkle with fine table salt and put into a slow oven for about 
half an hour. Get unroasted peanuts for this purpose. They 
are much better. 

Salted Pecans 

The shelled pecans that come by the pound are best for this 
purpose as it is difficult for an amateur to remove the nut meat 
with each half intact. Follow the same directions as for salted 
almonds or peanuts, being careful not to cook them too much. 
The color in this case is no indication when they are done, as they 
are dark naturally. 

French Almond Nougat 

Boil one pound of granulated sugar and one-fourth cup of water 
over a hot fire, until the mixture begins to turn yellow. Do 
not stir while boiling. Have ready one half-pound of almonds, 
blanched and dried. Set them in the oven, leaving the door 
slightly open. When they begin to change color add to the 
candy, stir briskly and pour into a well buttered tin. If there 
is any tendency to stick to the bottom of the tin, bend it 
slightly and the candy will come out much easier. This candy 
should be marked off into bars before it is entirely cool. 

Peanut Nougat 

Take one quart peanuts, shell, remove skins and chop fine. 
Place one pound of sugar and one-fourth cup of water in 
an agateware saucepan, place over fire and stir until thor- 
oughly dissolved. Stir in the chopped peanuts and pour into 
buttered tins. 

49 



Mixed Nut Bar 

Make a S3Tup by dissolving one pound of sugar in one-fourth 
cup of water. It must be removed from the range as soon 
as dissolved, otherwise it will turn to caramel. Cover the bot- 
tom of a shallow tin with a cup of chopped nut meats, choosing 
English walnuts, pecans and almonds as a good mixture. Pour 
over these the melted sugar and when sufficiently cool mark off 
in bars. 

Glace Nuts 

Into a porcelain or agateware saucepan put two cups of granu- 
lated sugar, one cup of hot water and a scant one-half teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar. When this reaches the boiling point watch it 
carefully. Do not stir but when it begins to change color, re- 
move the saucepan instantly from the fire and arrest further 
cooking by placing in a large pan of cold water. This is only a 
temporary precaution and while the nuts are being dipped in 
the syrup the saucepan should stand on the back of the range 
where contents will keep warm though not cook. Take the nut 
meats on a wire or long pin, dip in the syrup until well covered, 
and then place on oiled paper to dry. Fruits may be done in 
the same manner. 

Candied Orange or Grape Fruit Peel 

Place the peel of the fruit in cold water and let it gently simmer 
until perfectly tender. Drain, and with an orange spoon or 
blunt knife remove all the white inner lining, and then cut the 
3'ellow rind into narrow strips with a pair of scissors. Make a 
syrup of one cup of water and two cups of sugar, and, when it 
"threads" stir in the strips of peel. Cook for five minutes longer, 
drain, and roll in granulated sugar. 

Candied Violets 

The dainty and expensive sweets known as candied violets are 
very easily and simply prepared. Boil one pound of sugar in as 
much water as it will absorb, until, when dropped into cold water, 
it becomes hard and brittle. Throw the violets — which should 
be of the large double variety, and with no stems — into the syrup, 
a few at a time, and keep them in until the sugar boils again. 
Stir the sugar round the edge of the pan until it is white and 

50 



grains, then gently stir the flowers about until the sugar leaves 
them. Drain them on a fine, white cloth, and set them on a 
sieve to dry in a slightly warm oven, turning them carefully two 
or three times, and watching them lest they cool. Heliotrope 
and the petals of roses may be candied in this way, also mint 
leaves. 

Candied Nuts and Fruits 

Two pounds of coffee "A" sugar and pour on it one-third 
quart of water. Let it stand for several hours, if possible, 
though an hour will do. Add one-third teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, well dissolved in a httle water. Cook all in a deep 
kettle until you have a thick syrup. Have everything ready 
and at hand, nuts blanched, fruit cut or separated, if large 
enough to make division necessary. Whole white grapes are 
excellent, but other fruit should be divided. Small bits of 
pineapple are delicious for this purpose, and so are sections of 
grape fruit or orange. Dip each piece in the syrup and when 
thoroughly coated with the candy, remove with a fork and 
place on a tin to dry. 

Marrons Glace (Candied chestnuts) 

Take the large French chestnuts, remove shells, and let them 
stand in boiUng water until the thin, outer skin loosens sufficiently 
to be rubbed off with a cloth. After removing this thin skin, 
put them again into boiling water and allow them to gently 
simmer until tender, but not until they have become actually 
soft. 

Make a syrup by dissolving one cupful of sugar in a cupful of 
water, stirring until the sugar is thoroughly melted. Add the 
chestnuts and let them cook slowly in the syrup until they look 
clear. Drain, and let the nuts cool. Put the syrup again over 
the fire and boil until it reaches the point where a little of it, 
dropped into ice water, forms a hard ball. Flavor, either with 
lemon juice or vanilla, or a Uttle of both, as preferred. With 
a long pin or candy dipper, drop each chestnut separately into 
the syrup, and, when coated, lay on oiled paper to dry. These 
should be served if possible in little paper cases, which may be 
purchased of just the right size to hold one of these large French 
chestnuts. These are excellent served with ice cream at dinner. 

51 



Spun Sugar 

Very elaborate ornaments of spun sugar are now seen in the 
large hotels, as decorations for ice creams, sherbets and other 
frozen desserts. Nothing is more effective. Sugar spinning 
must never be attempted on a damp day and practice is required 
to know just when the sugar has boiled to the right degree for 
spinning. There is but one general rule, as follows: Into an 
agateware or porcelain lined saucepan put two cupfuls of sugar, 
one half cupful of water and less than one-quarter teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar. Boil until the "crack" stage is reached. 
It must be removed before there is the slightest change in 
color. Place saucepan in a large pan of cold water to arrest the 
further boiling. When the cooking has been thoroughly stopped, 
place saucepan again in hot water that the syrup may not harden 
before spinning. To do the work properly, a regular "sugar 
dipper" should be used. These are made of about two dozen 
coarse wires something less than a foot long, and held in a close 
bundle by a wire coil. Two forks may be tied together to answer 
the same purpose. Have two bars (broom handles or curtain 
rods may be used), placed on a table or chair so that the ends 
project over the floor. Cover the floor under these projecting 
rods with fresh wrapping paper. In the left hand hold the pan 
containing the syrup, and, in the right hand the bundles of 
wires or the forks. Dip these in the sugar and shake quickly 
back and forth over the projecting rods. Threads of sugar 
will fly from the wires and drop on the rods. From time to 
time remove the threads that accumulate, roll into little 
nests for individual molds of ice cream or shape around cups 
or bowls. The syrup may be re-heated if it becomes chilled 
before all is spun. If to be kept for more than a day the 
spun sugar must be placed under glass as soon as it is made. 
This spun sugar may be delicately tinted and used most effectively 
in many ways. 



52 



CHAFING DiS 
RECIPES 

S 

Classification 

HGG DISHHS 

FISH LJlSHHS 

MEAT, FOWL AND 
GAMH 

VEGETABLES 

CHEESE UlSHES 
SWEETS 




RAMEKIN'S AND PASTRY CASKS IN WHICH TO SKRVK 
CHAFING-DISH I'KKI'AKA IK >NS 




THK CIIAl'INCMUSH IS AT ITS BEST ON INFORMAL OCCASIONS 



vJit^SS 




CHAPTER IV— CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

HILE the chafing-dish may properly appear on the 
family table at any meal of the day with the exception 
of dinner, it is undeniably at its best at irregular 
occasions where an appetizing bite is wanted. The chaf- 
ing-dish supper should never pretend to be more than 
it really is, and no formality should be associated with 
it. Never invite more people than can be gathered around one 
table, unless additional tables and chafing-dishes are planned for. 
The dishes adapted to preparation on the chafing-dish are seldom 
of the kind that can be conveniently held in the hand or balanced 
on one knee, and sitting around the same board concentrates the 
fun. 

To cook any thing easily and well, while being watched, is no 
simple matter, unless the operation is backed by the confidence 
that can be gained only by experience. Let no one rashly at- 
tempt chafing-dish cookery in the presence of guests without a 
little private rehearsing. Some of the best chafing-dish cooks 
are men and the reason for their success is said to be attention to 
smaU details, which the average woman overlooks. A host or 
hostess who appears at all worried as to details or as to the outcome 
of the dish being prepared takes away much of the pleasure of the 
expectant guests. 

General Rules 

A few simple rules should be borne in mind when commencing 
to use the chafing-dish. The hot water pan, into which the long 
handled blazer sets, is seldom used except where there is danger 
of the ingredients burning. With egg or cream dishes the hot 
water pan is sometimes used at the latter part of the cooking, to 
moderate the heat. It should never be used when the intention 
is to saute or fry. The particular mission of the hot water pan is 
to keep the contents of the blazer hot after the actual cooking is 
finished. 

53 



Time will be saved and much confusion avoided if all small 
details are attended to before sitting down at table. Be sure 
that the lamp is well filled and that matches are at hand. If 
the recipe calls for hot milk, stock or water, have it measured, 
heated and put into a pitcher beside the chafing-dish. Toast 
may be made in advance and cream sauce prepared, for reheating 
in the chafing-dish. Both these things take time and are just 
as well prepared in the kitchen. If the recipe calls for butter 
by the tablespoonful, have butter balls made each one represent- 
ing a rounded tablespoonful. This measurement may be varied 
to suit whatever unit of measurement is mentioned in the par- 
ticular recipe used, although the rounded tablespoonful is usually 
considered the most practical measurement. Condiments and 
other ingredients should be placed conveniently beside the 
chafing-dish. 

A wooden spoon is to be recommended for actual use in pre- 
paring the dish, reserving the regulation chafing-dish spoon for 
ser\'ing. The clicking of a metal spoon against the metal dish 
is not pleasant, and, with a wooden spoon, the operation is almost 
noiseless. The wooden spoon has the further advantage of never 
becoming heated. 

The metal tray on which the chafing-dish stands is a necessary 
safeguard against fire and a great j^rotection to the table cloth. 
The opening of a door or window frequently occasions sufficient 
draft to drive the flame of the spirit lamp downward over the 
table, with most disastrous results. The one in charge of the 
dish should understand perfectly the adjustment of the extin- 
guisher, so that in case of accident the lamp will be immechately 
put out. 

Materials 

Some materials have long been especially connected with 
chafing-dish cookery, but there is no reason why many others, 
less famihar, but equally good, should not be advantageously 
tried. The re-heating of cold fowl, fish and vegetables in cream 
sauce is one of the simplest dishes for a beginner to undertake, 
and slices of beef or mutton are delicious when re-heated in some 
savory sauce. Simple egg, oyster and cheese dishes are also 
excellent for the amateur to practice on, and some delicious 
recipes for these dishes are given further on. Have the fist of 

54 



tested dishes a short one, if necessary, remembering always that 
"practice makes perfect." It is better to be sure of cooking 
three or four things gracefully and successfully on a chafing-dish, 
than to be awkward and uncertain with a larger number. Al- 
ways strive to have the appearance of being care-free when 
entertaining in this way, as it is the personaUty and interest in 
the actual procedure that make the use of the chafing-dish a 
delight. 

EGG DISHES 

Scrambled Eggs (Plain) 

PUT one tablespoonful of butter in the blazer. Beat three 
eggs until light, add half a cup of milk and a quarter of 
a saltspoonful of salt. When the butter is hot, stir in 
this mixture, scraping constantly from the bottom of the dish as 
the egg adheres. When the eggs are creamy, serve on squares 
of toast. 

This recipe may be varied in an almost Hmitless way. Mush- 
rooms, tomatoes, oj^'sters, asparagus, anchovies, sardines or slices 
of sausage may be added when the eggs are partially cooked. 

Plain Omelet 

Use the same direction as given above, giving the mixture time 
to "set" a little before touching it. Tip the pan and let the 
moisture run underneath the layer which has begun to cook. 
Some chafing-cUsh cooks cut a couple of slashes in the cooked layer, 
that the Hquid portion may reach the bottom of the dish. When 
all the liquid is cooked, fold one side of the omelet over the other 
and serve from the pan. 

This recipe may be varied by spreading the omelet, just be- 
fore folding, with chopped mushrooms, seasoned tomatoes, green 
peppers, or any savorj'' mixture. 

Ham Omelet 

Six eggs, four tablespoonfuls of milk and a half cupful of 
finely minced cold boiled or broiled ham. It must be minced so 
fine as to be almost a paste. Mix the eggs, milk and seasoning 
together and pour into the blazer, in which has been melting a 

55 



tablespoonful of butter. Shake the dish so that all the liquid 
may cook equally. Fold and serve either from a hot platter or 
direct from the blazer. If preferred, the ham may be spread 
over the omelet just before folding, 

Spanish Omelet 

Fry a few slices of onion, one cupful of sliced mushrooms and 
one-half cupful of stewed tomatoes. Season with pepper and 
salt. Cook a plain omelet and just before folding, spread on 
this mixture. If some of the mixture is left, pour it around the 
edge of the finished omelet when ser\ing. 

Bread Omelet 

One cupful of breadcrumbs. One cupful cream. Three eggs. 
Let the bread crumbs soak in the cream for ten minutes or longer. 
Put a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer and pour in the 
moistened crumbs and beaten eggs. Fold and serve as usual. 
This recipe may be varied by the addition of chopped ham or 
vegetables. 

Sweet Omelet 

To six well beaten eggs add six tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar and four tablespoonfuls of warm water. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter into the chafing-dish, and, when hot, pour in the 
mixture and allow the bottom to become well set. Shake the 
remaining liquid over the edge of the cooked portion, until it 
reaches the bottom of the pan. Spread over the omelet three 
tablespoonfuls of currant jelly or any preferred marmalade, fold 
and sift over with powdered sugar. 

Eggs with Cream 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter, stir in cupful of thin cream 
and when hot slip carefully in four eggs, taking care that none of 
the yolks are broken. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne 
to taste. When the whites are almost done sprinkle with cheese, 
finish cooking and serve on four shces of toast. 

Poached Eggs in Cream 

For three or four persons take a corresponding number of ab- 
solutely fresh eggs, one-half pint rich, new cream, one teaspoon- 
fol of butter, one small teaspoonful of flour, as much pepper 

56 



as can be held on the point of a knife and a saltspoonful of 
salt. Heat the cream in the chafing-dish; rub the butter and 
flour together and stir in and then add the seasoning. When 
the cream reaches the boihng point, slip the eggs carefully in 
and dip some of the cream over each. In two or three minutes 
serve with thin buttered toast or toasted wafers. 

Curried Eggs 

Have prepared six hard boiled eggs cut in quarters. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, stir in a like quantity 
of flour and one-half tablespoonful of curry powder. Pour in 
one pint of cream or rich milk and stir until it is perfectly smooth. 
Add a little pepper, paprika, salt and onion juice. When all 
is well mixed, lay the eggs in the mixture and cook for a couple 
of minutes, until the eggs are thoroughly heated. Serve on 
squares of toast. 

FISH DISHES 

Stewed Oysters 

FOR four persons allow a pint of oysters and a pint of milk. 
Heat the milk, add a tablespoonful of butter, a scant 
teaspoonful of salt, and a Uttle white pepper and pap- 
rika. When the milk is hot, add the oysters which have been 
drained from most of the liquor, although some liquor may be 
added to the stew, to advantage. As soon as the edges of the 
oysters curl, turn out the lamp and serve at once in soup plates, 
or pretty bowls. 

Fried Oysters 

Place one tablespoonful of butter in a chafing-dish and heat 
until very hot. Drain the oysters and partly dry them on a 
soft cloth. Dip each one in flour and cook in the hot butter 
until brown on both sides. Season with salt and pepper. In 
drying care should be taken that they have sufficient moisture 
to cause the flour to adhere to them. Clams may be cooked in 
in a similar way. 

Pigs in Blankets 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper. Wrap each oyster 

57 



in a slice of thin bacon, pinning it with a wooden toothpick. 
Cook them in the chafing-dish until the bacon is crisp. 

Cheamed Oysters 

Put a tablespoonful of butter in the blazer, and, when melted 
add a tablespoonful of flour and stir until the flour is cooked. 
Pour in a pint of rich milk, or thin cream, stirring constantly. 
When the mixture is perfectly smooth add a pint of oysters, 
drained from their liquor. Paprika, white pepper and salt should 
be used in seasoning. Oysters must not be cooked after they 
begin to show signs of curling at the edges. Extinguish lamp at 
once and serve the oysters on squares of toast or on pilot biscuit. 
Clams may be cooked in a smiliar manner. 

Oyster Bundles 

Cut nice, even slices of the breast of either boiled or roast 
turkey; spread over each piece a thin slice of bacon and put on 
top of each piece of bacon a large oyster; roll up each slice of 
turkey, with the bacon and oyster inside so as to form a little 
bundle, tie each of these securely, place in a baking pan and bake 
them long enough to cook the bacon, basting frequently with 
a little melted butter. Serve in a dish garnished with parsley. 

Panned Oysters with Green Peppers 

The combination of oysters and green peppers is especially 
delicious. Remove the white fibre and seeds from a large green 
pepper, or from two small ones. Cut in dice with a pair of 
sharp scissors. Cook these dice in a tablespoonful of butter 
for a few minutes, or until softened. Pour over them one-half 
cupful of strained oyster juice and add two dozen large oysters. 
Season with white pepper, and salt. Just before serving, if 
liked, a half glass of sherry may be added. This is not essential. 

Oysters a la Newburg 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish. Into 
this stir a tablespoonful of flour and gradually add one cupful 
of cream. Season with pepper, salt and a few grains of cayenne 
pepper. Add one pint of oysters, drained from their liquor. 
Cook until the edges curl, when stir in three tablespoonfuls of 
sherry and the well beaten yolks of two eggs. 

S8 



Flaked Fish 

Make a cream sauce by melting two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the blazer and to this adding two tablespoonfuls of flour and 
two cupfuls of milk. When smooth, add the mashed yolks of 
two hard boiled eggs. Season to taste. Stir in two cupfuls of 
cold flaked fish (previously cooked) and when heated through, 
shce in the wliite rings of the hard boiled eggs. 

Steamed Clams 

Clean thoroughly with a brush a sufficient number of small 
clams partially to fill the chafing-dish. Pour boiling water into 
the dish to the height of about an inch. When the shells open, 
remove each clam and drop into the liquor. Add butter, pepper 
and salt and serve on strips of toast. 

Oysters may be cooked in a similar manner, though extremely 
small oysters must be selected in order to have them fit into the 
chafing-dish. 

Fried Soft-Shell Crabs 

Dip the crabs in beaten egg, then in rolled bread dust seasoned 
with salt and pepper. Have the blazer hot and enough butter 
in it to keep the fish from burning. Fry as quickly as possible. 
All shell fish require rapid cooking, else the juice escapes and the 
food will be tough. They should cook in from eight to ten minutes 
and be of a deep red color when done. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Take two tablespoonfuls of butter ; two tablespoonfuls of water ; 
one teaspoonf ul of flour ; one medium-sized lobster, or one can 
of lobster; one pint of milk; three eggs (yolks only) ; one-half 
cupful of sherry. Place the butter in the dish and stir it as it 
foams. Rub the flour smooth with the water, add this and the 
salt and pepper, then one-half of the milk, stirring all of the time 
and being careful that the flame is not too hot. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs until frothy, add the remainder of the milk and stir 
all into the chafing-dish. When the mass is of the consistency 
of cream, add the sherry, then the lobster cut up coarsely, and 
when thoroughly heated, serve. If using the fresh lobster, split 
it down the middle, remove the coral and creamy green fat and 
set them to one side. Make the sauce as above, and, just before 

59 



adding the lobster, rub the coral and the fat together until a 
paste is formed, then stir this in. When quite mixed, add the 
lobster. 

Stewed Lobster 

Cut the lobster into pieces; put it into the chafing-dish with 
enough milk or ca-eam to cover it. Boil up once ; add one table- 
spoonful of butter and season with salt and pepper. Cook 
lobster just long enough to heat it, longer cooking makes it 
tough. . 

Creamed Shrimps 

One pint of shrimps shelled and rinsed; one tablespoonful of 
butter; two tablespoonfuls of flour; two cupfuls of milk. Place 
the upper dish in the hot-water dish and when the milk is as 
thick as cream add the shrimps. When thoroughly heated add 
salt and pepper and serve. 

Fried Scallops 

Pour boiling water on the scallops, let them stand five minutes. 
Drain and dry them. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll them 
in flour, and fry them in the chafing-dish in the butter or oil. 

Grilled Sardines 

Drain boneless sardines. Heat two tablespoonfuls of olive- 
oil in the pan and saute the sardines in this. While hot, season 
them with salt, cayenne and a little lemon juice. Lay each one 
on a narrow strip of toasted bread. 



MEAT, FOWL AND GAME 

Pan Broiled Steak 

TRIM the fat from a small steak from which the bone has 
been removed. Absence of fat lessens the odor of cooking, 
a feature which must always be considered in chafing- 
dish cookery. Heat the blazer quite hot, lay the steak in the 
dry dish and cover. As soon as it has seared on one side, turn 

60 



and allow the other to sear. Then cook as long as necessary, 
taking into consideration the thickness of the steak and whether 
the beef is preferred rare or medium. Before serving sprinkle 
with chopped parsley, pepper, salt and paprika. The same direc- 
tions apply to English mutton chops, venison steak, etc. 

Beef Balls 

From scraped or chopped raw beef form small balls not larger 
around than a half dollar. Use as little pressure as possible in 
shaping them, and season with pepper, salt, paprika, and a little 
onion juice if hked. Have these pre\'iously made and brought 
to the table in a pretty dish. Put a few drops of olive oil into 
the blazer and when it is smoking hot drop in the beef balls. 
Shake the blazer from side to side so that the balls will turn 
rapidly and cook on all sides. They should be nicely brown on 
the outside and pink within. These may be served dry on fingers 
of toast or a gravy may be made by removing the beef balls 
and adding stock and flour to the oil and beef juice in the dish. 
In the latter case the balls should be returned to the dish for a 
minute before serving, that they may be very hot. 

Frizzled Beef 

Make a white sauce by putting a tablespoonful each of butter 
and flour into the blazer. Stir until the butter is melted and 
the flour cooked, then, before it has time to burn, add gradually 
a cupful of hot milk. Remove all stringy parts from a half 
pound of smoked beef, pick it in shreds, and add to the white 
sauce. When the edges curl it is done. Some cooks add a well 
beaten egg just before extinguishing the flame. This may be 
served on toast or pilot biscuit. 

Chicken Hash 

Take one and one-half cupful of chopped chicken, one cupful 
of cold boiled potatoes, one-half cupful of stock or water, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
salt and pepper to taste. Chop the chicken and potatoes separate- 
ly, then mix them lightly together. Melt the butter in a chafing- 
dish, and to the potato add meat, the seasoning and the stock, 
and cook until heated, browning if desired. 

61 



Pan Broiled Spring Chicken (or Game) 

Split a small chicken and clean and wash thoroughly. Rub 
into the breast salt, white pepper and a httle paprika. Cover 
the bottom of the chafing-dish with enough oil to keep the chicken 
from burning and cook until it is a delicate brown all over. 
Butter may be used if preferred. If the chicken is very plump 
it is advisable to keep the cover on the dish the greater part of 
the time as this hastens the thorough cooking. 

Devilled Chicken Bones 

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, and, when 
melted add a tablespoonful each of ChiU sauce and mushroom 
catsup and a teasiDoonful each of made mustard and Worcester- 
shire sauce. Take the wings and drumsticks left from a boiled 
or roasted fowl, cut little gashes in them, sprinkle with pepper, 
salt, and flour, and cook in the above sauce until thoroughly 
heated. Pour on a cupful of stock, or hot water in which beef 
extract has been stirred, sprinkle with chopped parsley and 
serve at once. 

Chicken or Turkey a la Newburg 

Make a rich sauce by blending a tablespoonful of butter with 
one of flour and adding a cupful of thin cream. When smooth 
add small slices of cold turkey or cliicken and season with salt, 
white pepper and paprika. When hot, add four tablespoonfuls 
of sherry and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir vigorously 
that the eggs may not cook too quickly. Some cooks add thin 
slices of hard boiled egg just before serving. This is an ornament- 
al touch and is also very appetizing. Chopped parsley is also 
an excellent addition to this dish. 

Pork Chops with Fried Apples 

Cut two large, cored apples in thick slices. Cover with granu- 
lated sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of sherry. After standing 
a few minutes, drain and fry. Take four pork chops and cook 
in chafing-dish with a little butter. When cooked, pour in the 
wine which had previously been drained from the apples. When 
hot, serve the chops with the fried apples and poux the sauce 
over both. 

62 



Tripe a la Lyonnaise 

Clean a pound of tripe thoroughly and scald it. Cut in narrow 
strips. Cut a large onion in thin slices and cook it with the 
tripe in the blazer, with just enough butter to keep from burning. 
When the onion is brown and the tripe cooked through, add one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and serve. 

Tripe with Tomatoes 

Cut into dice sufficient cooked tripe to make three cupfuls. 
Melt two tablesponfuls of butter in the chafing-dish. Add a can 
of tomatoes, or several fresh ones cut in sHces and one tablespoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoonful salt and a little pep- 
per. Let the tripe simmer in this sauce until thoroughly heated. 

Sweetbreads Saute 

Place the sweetbreads in ice water and remove all pipes and 
membranes. Cook in boiling water to which has been added a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice. This has the effect of bleaching 
them. Boil for twenty minutes and then place in cold water to 
harden. They should remain on ice until needed. When ready 
to cook, drain, roll in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, and saute 
in the blazer either in olive oil or butter. 

These may be served with points of toast and a spoonful of 
French peas on each plate. 

Creamed Sweetbreads 

Prepare the sweetbreads as previously directed. Cut in dice 
and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Make a white sauce by 
blending a tablespoonful of flour with one of butter, and adding 
gradually a cup of hot milk. Stir in the diced sweetbreads and 
heat thoroughly. Small button mushrooms are a delicious ad- 
dition to this dish. 

Ham Rechauffe 

Put a teaspoonful of butter into the chafing-dish and when 
melted stir into it two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly and a half 
glass of sherry. In this place thin slices of cold boiled ham and 
simmer for a few moments. This makes a delicious luncheon 
dish. Slices of game may be cooked in similar style. 

63 



VEGETABLES 
Devilled Tomatoes 

CUT ripe tomatoes in half-inch slices, or -select the solid 
portion from a can of tomatoes. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of butter in the chafing-dish and fry the tomatoes in this 
for a few minutes. Remove from the dish and keep closely 
covered and hot while making the following sauce. To the butter 
in the dish add another tablespoonful of butter, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of onion juice, a tablespoonful of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful 
of dry mustard, a scant teaspoonful of salt and the same of sugar, 
and, if liked, either cayenne or paprika. When this mixture is 
perfectly blended, add slowly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir 
constantly, lay the tomatoes in this sauce, reheat for a minute 
and serve. 

Green Peppers Saute 

Take the large, bell shaped green peppers and remove all the 
inside white fibre and seeds. The seeds are very pungent and 
the presence of even one is easily discovered in the cooked article. 
Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter in the dish and lay in the 
peppers cut in slices so that they form rings. Cook until they 

' are slightly brown and somewhat soft. Season with a httle salt 
and serve hot either with steak or chops, or with cold meats. 

Corn Oysters 

A pint of the pulp of green corn is the best material for these 
mock oysters, but, lacking this, canned corn may be used by 
first draining it from the moisture in the can and substituting 
rich milk. To the corn add two eggs well beaten, pepper, salt 
and enough flour to give substance sufficient to shape into the 
form of large oysters. Fry in a well buttered chafing-dish. 

Panned Mushrooms 

Peel one dozen mushrooms and remove the stems. Melt one 
teaspoonful of butter in the chafing-dish, and when quite hot turn 
out the flame. Cover the bottom of the dish with the mush- 
rooms, placing a bit of butter in each and season with a sprinkling 
of salt and pepper. Relight the lamp, and after cooking gently 
for five minutes, or more if large, serve. 

64 



Braised Onions 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in the chafing-dish and add 
the onions peeled and cut in strips. Large onions are usually- 
milder in flavor and cut to better advantage. When the onions 
are a delicate brown and quite tender, season with salt and pepper, 
and serve. Especially good with cold meats. 



CHEESE DISHES 

Welsh Rarebit 

FOR a party of five, one pound of cheese is required. Amer- 
ican cheese is best for this purpose. Put into the chaf- 
ing-dish one teaspoonful of butter and while melting 
stir it well to oil the bottom of the dish. Then add the cheese 
and stir gently into it one tablespoonful of ale. The cheese 
will at once thicken and another tablespoonful of ale should 
be added, stirring all the time. Gradually add more ale 
until the mixture is smooth and velvety. Stir into it one tea- 
spoonful of paprika, or if much seasoning is not liked a little made 
mustard, salt and white pepper. Place in spoonfuls on hot dry 
toast and serve on hot plates. The amount of ale required can- 
not be fixed definitely, as it varies according to the richness of the 
cheese, but one-half pint is usually sufficient. Should this thin 
the cheese too much stir rapidly to evaporate the moisture. 

Welsh Rarebit (Without ale) 

Cut a pound of cheese in small pieces and place in the chafing- 
dish with one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of dry 
mustard, one-half teaspoonful of salt and a few grains of cayenne 
pepper. When blended, add one-half cupful of cream and stir 
mitil perfectly smooth. Add two eggs beaten very light and stir 
briskly that they may not cook too quickly. Serve on squares 
of toast or on pilot biscuit which have previously been placed in 
a hot oven for a few moments. 

Golden Buck 

Make Welsh rarebit as above and when serving place on each 
portion a poached egg. 

65 



English Monkey 

Half a cupful of mild cheese broken in very small pieces. One 
cupful of milk and a tablespoonful of butter. Put the butter 
into the chafing-dish, and, when melted, add the cheese. When 
reduced to a paste, add one egg beaten very light and three- 
quarters of a cup of bread crumbs which have previously been 
soaked in a cupful of milk. Stir thoroughly, cook from three 
to five minutes, and then pour over thin slices of toast. 

Cheese Souffle 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in the blazer and stir in one 
tablespoonful of flour. When smooth, add one cupful of milk 
and one cupful of cheese cut in very small pieces. Into this 
mixture drop the yolks of three eggs, and stir vigorously until 
it thickens. Beat the whites of the three eggs very stiff and fold 
them in lightly. Put the blazer over the hot water pan, cover, 
and let steam for twenty minutes. Season with salt, pepper 
and paprika. 

Cheese Fondue 

Soak one cupful of stale bread crumbs in a cupful of warm 
milk. When the crumbs are soft, add one-fourth pound cheese 
cut into dice, one teaspoonful of salt, and yolks of three eggs 
well beaten. Put one tablespoonful of butter in the blazer, 
and, when ingredients are hot, fold in the stiffly beaten whites 
of the three eggs. Place the hot water pan under the blazer, 
put on the cover of the chafing-dish and let cook for fifteen 
minutes. 

SWEETS 
Fried Bananas 

PEEL a sufficient number of bananas, allowing one for each 
person. Cut in two lengthwise and roll in flour. Place 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer, lay in the 
halved bananas and fry until they are a delicate brown. Dredge 
with powdered sugar and serve very hot. If liked, sherry may 
be added to the butter left in the blazer, and a sauce made to 
pour over the cooked bananas. 

66 



French Pancakes 

Mix thoroughly one cupful of milk, two well beaten eggs, a 
teaspoonful of sugar, pinch of salt, and a half-cupful of sifted 
flour. When blended, add one-half tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Oil the blazer slightly and pour in sufficient of the 
mixture to cover the bottom. When brown, turn with a cake- 
turner, and allow the other side to brown also. Make as many 
cakes as the batter allows. Spread each one with jelly, roll 
closely, dredge with powdered sugar and serve hot. 

Golden Toast 

Make a thin batter of three well beaten eggs, a half teaspoonful 
of salt, a cupful of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of flour. In this mixture place sHces of stale 
bread, allowing a slice to each person to be served. These should 
not be cut too thin or they would break when moist. Put a 
little ohve oil or butter into the blazer, and cook these shces 
first on one side and then on the other, until both are a delicate 
brown. Spread with jam, jelly or marmalade. 

Fig Cups 

Take a half-pound of the best figs and stuff them with nuts 
of any kind preferred. Put three tablespoonfuls of sugar into 
the chafing-dish, add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, one-half 
cupful of port wine or sherry, and, when hot add the figs. Turn 
frequently, basting with the liquor, and cook until tender. These 
are delicious served with crackers and cheese, or with macaroons 
or lady fingers. 

Apple Fritters 

Peel and core several fine apples and cut in round slices about 
one-quarter of an inch in thickness. Dip these in a sauce made by 
mixing a tablespoonful of lemon juice with the same quantity 
of brandy and a little granulated sugar. Drain, dredge with 
sifted flour and fry in a little butter in the chafing-dish. When 
brown on both sides, sprinkle with cinnamon and powdered 
sugar and serve at once. 

Sponge Cake Saute 

Cut slices from stale sponge cake, or spUt the amall individual 

67 



cakes. Lay these in hot butter and brown on botn sicies. Ke- 
move to a hot plate and spread each with preserved fruit. Put 
the juice from the fruit into the chafing-dish, mix a teaspoonful 
of arrowroot in a Httle cold water until smooth, and stir into the 
juice while heating. When smooth, pour over the shces of 
fruit covered cake. 

Devilled Nuts 

Fry whatever nuts are preferred in just enough butter or olive 
oil to keep them from burning. When nicely browned, mix one 
tablespoonful each of English Chutney and Worcestershire 
sauce, twice the quantity of chopped pickles and a Httle salt. 
Pour over the nuts and serve as soon as thoroughly mixed. 
These are dehcious with crackers and cheese. 

Salted Nuts 

Shell and blanch almonds, and, if peanuts are to be prepared, 
take off the inner red skin. Pecans need no special treatment. 
Heat a little olive oil in the blazer, throw in the nuts and stir 
constantly until they are a delicate brown. Remove them with 
a skimmer or perforated spoon of any kind, place on blotting 
paper and sprinkle with salt. 



68 



DEC 8 15^' 




> ^ 






/ 
















'^„ c'** 




' *' ./"""v •-^.' y'^^'^^^ "^iw^ ,<f ■% 

HECKMAN IXI *^m^^* "^0 






HECKMAN 
BINDERY INC. |a, 

^^APR 89 

^!s^ N- MANCHESTER, 
^=^ INDIANA 46962 I 



\.JS 









5' •" U " '.i^B 



