How to Use 

Hawaiian 
Fruits 




HOW TO USE 

HAWAIIAN 

FRUITS 



By 

JESSIE, C. TURNER 
AGNES B. ALEXANDER 



HONOLULU, T. H. 

HAWAIIAN GAZETTE CO., LTD. 

1910 



^ 



# 



Copyright 1910 
By Agnes B. Alexander 



0- 



CONTENTS. 





1 






PAGES 

I. The Avocado or "Alligator Pear" 7_ 8 

II. The Banana 9_15 

III. The Breadfruit 16 

IV. The China Orange or Kumquat 17-18 

V. The Coconut 19-21 

VI. The Coffee 22-23 

VII. The Fig 24-26 

VIII. The Grapes # 27-29 

IX. The Guava 30-34 

X. The Mango 35.35 

XI. The Ohelo ^7 

XII. The Orange 38-41 

XIII. The Papaya 42-43 

XIV. The Pineapple 44-49 

XV. The Poha 50 

XVI. The Pomelo and Shaddock 51-52 

XVII. The Taro or Kalo 53-54 

XVIII. The Tamarind 55 

XIX. The Watermelon 56 

XX. Combined Fruits 57-58 



£ CI.A27S863 



INTRODUCTION 

In offering this little book to the public, we hope it will 
fill a need through its simple suggestions for the use of our Ha- 
waiian Fruits. The recipes are not all original, and we 
gratefully acknowledge kind assistance from friends. With 
the exception of the ohelo, the fruits selected are all found in 
our market. 

Among the many fruits and food products of Hawaii nei, 
ten were found here by the first discoverers. Some of these 
may have been brought by the aboriginal settlers, in their 
canoes, such as the taro, banana, breadfruit, and ohia; while 
the coconut may have come with the currents, and the birds 
may have carried seeds of the berries. 

Of the fruits, the akala and ohelo are species peculiar only to 
these Islands. 

The akala is a red berry similar to the raspberry, and is 
found on the slopes of Mauna Kea and Haleakala. 

The ohelo is also found on the high mountains of East 
Maui and Hawaii, especially in the vicinity of the Volcano 
House. It resembles in shape and texture the American 
blueberry, though it varies in color from a very light yellow 
to a deep red or purple. 

The other fruits are the poha, which is found on all the 
islands, and is similar to the gooseberry ; the ohia ai, or 
mountain apple, which thrives well in moist valleys; the 
ohelo papa, or wild strawberry, which is found on Hale- 
akala near the Koolau gap and also on the mountains of Ha- 
waii. The niu, or coconut, we are all familiar with, and also 
the banana. 

The food products are the ko, or sugar cane, the taro and 
the ulu, or breadfruit. 



All fruits and fruit juices retain their flavor much better 
when cooked at a low temperature. The double container is 
of great assistance; 212° is boiling point, but a temperature 
from 160° to 175° continued for 20 or 30 minutes will effect- 
ually sterilize fruits ; and if bottles, covers, and rubbers are 
sterilized at the same time, and the bottles filled and covered 
quickly, the fruits will keep for a long time if kept in a cool, 
dark place. , , 

As exact measurements are an important factor in the suc- 
cess of cooking, a cup, abbreviated to c, means y 2 pt. Table- 
spoons and teaspoon, abbreviated to tbsp and tsp mean the 
level spoonfuls. 



AVOCADO (OR ALLIGATOR PEAR) 

This fruit is rich in fat, containing as high as 10 per cent. 
There are many varieties which vary when ripe in color 
from green to purple. 

AVOCADO COCKTAIL. 

1. Cut fruit into dice, or small pieces, and serve in glasses 
with cocktail sauce made of tomato catsup and lemon juice, 
and season with salt and pepper. Serve ice cold with 
chopped ice. 

2. Mash the fruit and beat it up with the cocktail sauce. 
Serve in the same manner. 

AVOCADO SALAD. 
In preparing avocado salad, one may either cut it in dice, 
scoop it with a spoon, or mash it and mix with the dressing. 
AVOCADO VEGETABLE SALAD. 
Combine sliced avocado, cucumber, tomato, and a few 
shreds of Chili pepper and serve with mayonnaise or French 
dressing. 

AVOCADO SALAD WITH STRING BEANS. 
Combine equal parts of cooked string beans and avocado 
and serve with French dressing. 

AVOCADO SALAD IN TOMATOES. 
Push the avocado through a potato press, mix with mayon- 
naise dressing, strong with mustard, and fill peeled and partly 
scooped out tomatoes with the avocado. 

AVOCADO SERVED IN SKIN. 
Cut avocado in half, remove seed, and serve with one of 
these five dressings: 1, sugar; 2, salt and vinegar; 3, tomato 
catsup; 4, Durkee's salad dressing; 5, French dressing. 

Or partly fill the cavity with sliced celery and sliced wal- 
nuts, and cover with mayonnaise. 

AVOCADO ASPIC SALAD— 1. 
Yz box gelatine 2 c mashed avocado pulp 

y 2 cup cold water Juice y 2 lemon 

1 cup boiling water Salt, cayenne 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water y 2 hr. Dissolve in the 
boiling water. Strain and add the fruit pulp which has been 
flavored with salt, cayenne, and the lemon juice. Place on 
ice to harden. Serve with mayonnaise. 



AVOCADO ASPIC SALAD— 2. 

y 2 box gelatine 2 tbsp sugar 

y 2 c cold water Juice of 2 lemons 

\y 2 c boiling water 2 tomatoes 

1 good sized avocado 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water y 2 hr. Dissolve in the 
boiling water. Strain and add sugar and lemon juice. Cut 
the avocado and tomato in cubes. Place a mold in ice 
water and pour in a layer of jelly, then avocado and tomato. 
Add a little jelly to keep the fruit in place, and when set add 
more and more fruit. Place on ice to harden. Serve with 
mayonnaise. This and the preceding salad miay be molded 
in individual molds and served in nests of lettuce leaves. 

AVOCADO SANDWICHES. 

Slice the fruit with chopped Chili peppers or cayenne and 
place between thin slices of buttered bread. 

AVOCADO ICE CREAM. 

Yolks 5 eggs 2 c sugar 

1 qt. milk 4 medium sized avocados 

Green maraschino cherries Almond and vanilla extracts 

Make a boiled custard with the milk, eggs, and 1 c sugar, 
and flavor with vanilla. Mash the fruit to a pulp with 1 c 
sugar and flavor with almond extract. When the custard is 
cool, add the fruit and freeze. Serve in mounds with a green 
maraschino cherry on top of each dish. 



BANANA 

The banana contains a greater per cent, of food material 
than any other fruit, being chiefly starch and sugar. There 
are two general types, the Chinese and like varieties, only 
suitable for eating raw and frying, while the plantin or cook- 
ing banana may be boiled, baked, or fried. The strings which 
cling to the fruit are the only indigestible part, and should be 
removed before eating. The unripe fruit may be dried and 
ground into meal. Some use it as a beverage, like coffee. 

BANANAS SIMPLE. 

Slice and serve with lemon or China orange juice, or with 
sugar and cream. They may also be sliced into porridge. 

DRIED BANANAS. 

Peel bananas and cut in thin flakes or press through a 
sieve. Dry in the sun or hot attic on screened dishes. When 
dry, keep in a dry, dark, cool place. 

BAKED BANANAS— 1. 

Bake bananas in their skins, or peel not too ripe ones. Add 
a little salt and put in same pan with a roast y 2 hr. before 
serving. Turn once or twice. Serve as a vegetable. 

BAKED BANANAS— 2. 

Peel bananas and place in a baking pan. Sprinkle with 
sugar, lemon juice, and a little cinnamon. Bake J/£ hr. and 
serve as a vegetable. 

BAKED BANANAS— 3. 

Bake bananas in their skins 45 minutes in a hot oven. Peel 
and place on a lettuce leaf with whipped cream on top. Serve 
cold as an entree. 

Or bake and serve in the same manner with grated coco- 
nut on top of the bananas. 

BANANAS AND DATES. 

Serve finely sliced dates and bananas with whipped or 
plain cream, or plain custard. 

FRIED BANANAS. 

Slice bananas in 2 or 3 strips and fry in half butter and 
half lard. 



10 

BANANA CROQUETTES. 

Cut bananas as to fry, and dip in egg and bread crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat and drain on paper. 

DISGUISED BANANAS. 

Peel and cut baking bananas each into 5 or 6 pieces. Add 
sugar, bits of butter, cinnamon, a little fruit juice, or tama- 
rinds and water, or just water, and bake slowly in a covered 
pan for 3 or 4 hours, or quickly in an uncovered pan. 

STEWED BANANAS— 1. 

Cut bananas in small pieces, add sugar and a few tama- 
rinds; or China orange, lime or lemon juice and sugar, and 
simmer slowly in a very little water. Serve as a fruit course. 

STEWED BANANAS— 2. 

Peel and cut bananas in halves. Cover with a little water 
and stew y> hr. Serve as a vegetable. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

3 bananas 1 c flour 

% c milk 1 tbsp powdered sugar 

34 tsp salt 2 tsp baking powder 

1 egg 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add milk, and com- 
bine mixtures. Add sliced or mashed bananas. Fry in 
deep fat and drain on paper. 

BANANA SOUP. 

1 pt. milk 1 tbsp flour 

1 tbsp butter $4 c mashed and strained banana 
%tsp salt Pepper 

Melt the butter and add flour, mixing thoroughly. Add 
milk slowly, stirring constantly. When it boils, add the 
bananas and cook 5 minutes. Serve hot with crackers. For 
this use the Chinese or cold baked banana. 

BAKED BANANA DUMPLINGS. 

1 c flour . 2 tsp baking powder 

1 heaping tbsp butter y 2 tsp salt 

Y<2> c water Banana and seasoning 

Rub together the butter and flour sifted with the baking 
powder and salt. Add about y 2 c water and mix lightly with 
spoon. Divide into 4 balls and roll out lightly and quickly 



11 

to the size of large saucers. Put into the middle of each 
round minced banana, sugar, butter, and lemon extract, and 
bring paste to top, wetting the edges and leaving opening for 
steam to escape. Serve hot with sauce made of 4 tbsp sugar, 
2 tbsp butter, cinnamon and a pinch of salt creamed together. 
Add *4 c boiling water. 

BANANA SALAD— 1. 

Make nests of lettuce leaves on individual plates. Slice 
bananas and lay the slices one on the other in the form of a 
circle within the lettuce, leaving the center empty. In this 
place a spoonful of mayonnaise and on top lay a candied 
cherry or a strawberry. 

BANANA SALAD— 2. 

Slice bananas in halves lengthwise. Lay them on lettuce 
leaves, and place on top of each half, chopped walnut; then a 
narrow layer of mayonnaise. 

BANANA SALAD— 3. 

Slice bananas, celery and walnuts. Mix with salt and 
mayonnaise, and serve in banana boats made of the half skins 
with lettuce leaves for sails. Place in nest of lettuce with 
2 or 3 stuffed olives. 

BANANA SALAD— 4. 

Serve cold baked bananas on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise or boiled dressing. 

BANANA PIE— 1. 

Slice bananas thin, add sugar, nutmeg, butter and guava 
jelly, or ^ c finely chopped pineapple pickle, or a larger 
quantity of chopped fresh pineapple. Bake slowly between 
two crusts. 

BANANA PIE— 2. 

Slice thin, enough bananas for one pie. Mix *4 c sugar, 
little salt, 1 tbsp China orange or lemon juice, and spread 
half of this on the pie crust. Dot with tsp butter, then put 
in a layer of bananas and repeat. Cover with a top crust 
and bake quickly. 

BANANA HARD SAUCE. 

Cream together y 2 c sugar and y 4 c butter, beating well; 
then add ]/ 2 c banana pulp and beat. The white of an egg 
may be added before the fruit. 



12 

BANANA PLAIN SAUCE. 

1 tbsp butter 1 tbsp flour 

6 tbsp sugar y 2 c orange juice 

y 2 c banana pulp 

Melt the butter, add flour, mixing thoroughly, then the 
sugar and fruit. Stir and serve while still foaming. This 
may be used with any plain pudding. 

BANANA BROWN BETTY. 

Put a layer of sliced bananas in buttered dish. Add sugar, 
butter, and a little chopped pineapple pickle with syrup, or 
orange marmalade, or guava jelly; then layer of bread 
crumbs sprinkled with cinnamon; then layer of bananas, etc., 
making the last layer of crumbs. Bake slowly and serve hot 
with cream. If fresh pineapple and juice are used, the cream 
may be dispensed with. The whipped whites of 2 eggs with 
2 tbsp sugar, put lightly on top, and browned quickly in the 
oven after the pudding is cooked, is an improvement. 

BANANA BLANC MANGE. 

1 qt. milk y 2 c sugar 

3 tbsp corn-starch Salt 

y 2 c cold water 3 large bananas 

White 1 egg 

Dissolve corn-starch in cold water, add to boiling milk, and 
when it thickens add sugar and bananas, which have been 
pressed through a sieve. Then add the stiffly whipped white 
of egg. 

ROLY-POLY BANANA PUDDING. 

1 c flour y 2 c cold suet 

Yz c ice water ]/ 2 tsp salt 

2 tsp baking powder 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt. Chop into this scant 
y 2 c suet and mix quickly with ice water. Roll out thin and 
long and spread with thin slices of banana and sprinkle with 
lemon juice. Roll up like a jelly roll and bake in hot oven 
24 hr. Serve hot with sauce. 

BANANA PUDDING. 

1 qt. milk 2 or 3 bananas 
Yolks 2 eggs 2 tbsp corn-starch 

2 tbsp powdered sugar Salt 



13 



Boil the milk and stir in the beaten yolks of eggs, sugar, 
corn-starch dissolved in a little cold milk, and pinch of salt 
Remove from the fire when it thickens. Take baked 
bananas and slice in a pudding dish. Add powdered sugar 
and cover with the custard. Put in the oven and brown. 
BANANA GELATINE. 

V* box gelatine ^ c cold water 

y 2 c sugar 1 c boiling water 

3 Chinese bananas pressed through sieve 
Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Boil the sugar and 1 c 
water. Add the gelatine and orange juice. Place in a mold 
and set on ice to harden. Serve with cream. 
BANANA SPONGE. 
1 tbsp gelatine % c cold water 

1 c banana pulp Juice y 2 lemon 

Whites 2 eggs K c sugar 

1 doz. chopped nuts 
Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Stir and cook ba- 
nana pulp, lemon juice, and sugar until boiling, and add gela- 
tine Place in ice water, and when it begins to set, fold in 
the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into mold and place on 
ice. Sprinkle with the chopped nuts. 

BANANA MARMALADE. 

4 bananas 1 c sugar 

1 c water Juice 1 lemon 

Press bananas through potato press, and add water. Place on 

the fire, and when it boils, add sugar and lemon juice, stirring. 

Cook 20 minutes. Serve with hot cakes or waffles. 

BANANA WITH JUNKET. 

Fill sherbet glasses two thirds full of plain milk junket 

made from junket tablets. Crush and sweeten bananas and 

place on top the junket. Cream may be mixed with the 

banana. _^ ^,« 

BANANA CUSTARD PIE. 

2 bananas 2 eggs 

y 2 c sugar 1 Pt. hot milk 

Salt Cinnamon or vanilla 

Mash and strain the bananas, add well beaten eggs, and whip 
together until light and frothy. Add sugar, hot milk, salt, 
and cinnamon or vanilla. Bake in one crust. 



14 

BANANA FILLING FOR CAKE. 

6 bananas Whites 2 eggs 

*4 c sugar Juice 1 orange and grated rind 

Mix the sugar and grated rind. Add the bananas mashed. 
Whip the egg whites and beat mixture into it. Whipped 
cream may be used in place of eggs. 

BANANA WHIP. 

To 3 Chinese bananas allow the white of 1 egg. Press 
the banana through a potato press. Sweeten with powdered 
sugar. Add this to the well whipped egg white. Serve in 
sherbet cups, ice cold. Whipped cream may be used in place 
of the egg white. 

BANANA SOUFFLK 

1 c mashed bananas Whites 4 eggs 

Powdered sugar Salt 

Whip the egg whites with a pinch of salt, and beat into 
them the sweetened banana pulp. Turn into a buttered 
pudding dish, or individual molds in pan of hot water, and 
bake in slow oven until firm. 





BANANA CREAM. 




% 

1 


box gelatine 
c cold water 
c cream 


4 bananas mashed 
% c sugar 
Juice 1 lemon 



Mix bananas with the sugar. Whip the cream, and stir in 
the bananas and lemon juice. Soak the gelatine in the cold 
water 5 minutes, and dissolve by setting dish in hot water. 
Strain and mix with the banana. Place in a mold to harden 
on ice. 

FROZEN BANANA CUSTARD. 

4 tbsp sugar 4 bananas 

3 eggs 3 c milk 

3 tbsp cold water 1 c cream 

1 tsp gelatine 

Soak gelatine in the cold water. Place milk on stove, 
and add sugar and eggs, stirring. Add gelatine, 1 and stir 
until it thickens. Cool, and add bananas pressed through 
sieve, and fold in the whipped cream. Freeze. 



15 

BANANA SHERBET. 

1 pt. water 1 c banana pulp 

1 c sugar Juice 1 lemon 

1 tsp gelatine 

Boil the water and sugar 20 minutes. Soak the gelatine in 
little cold water 5 minutes. Add it and the lemon juice to 
the syrup. Strain. When cool add the banana and freeze. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

To 1 c mashed banana pulp add the juice of y 2 lemon. 
Mix this with 1 qt. of any plain ice cream when partly frozen. 



16 



BRBADFRU1T 

This fruit, as it is called, is used only as a vegetable, and 
when properly baked, it is somewhat similar to the sweet 
potato. 

To ripen breadfruit, remove the core from slightly green 
fruit, and put in its place 1 tbsp rock salt. In about 2 days 
it will be ripe. 

BAKED BREADFRUIT— 1. 

Take the fruit when it is just turning soft, but not too 
soft nor too hard. The whole secret is in getting it at the 
right stage. Bake in a hot oven for 1 hr. Cut in half, re- 
move the seed and break in individual pieces. Serve with 
butter. 

BAKED BREADFRUIT— 2. 

Cut the stem and core of a breadfruit out together. Put 
butter and salt in the cavity, replace the stem and bake for 
1 hour. 

BREADFRUIT PUDDING—" PAPAIEE." 

Take ripe breadfruit, scrape out the pulp and mix well 
with the milk, and pressed juice from a grated coconut. 
Add y 2 tsp salt and 1 tbsp sugar. Bake y 2 hr. to 1 hr. 



17 



CHINA ORANGE OR KUMQUAT 

Kumquat, the Chinese name for this fruit, means "gold 
orange." It may be used in place of lemon, and is very good 
cut in half and served with papaya for breakfast. 

CHINA ORANGE DRINK. 

Make as lemonade, and sweeten to taste. 

CHINA ORANGE SERVED WITH TEA. 

With a sharp knife cut the oranges crosswise into thin 
slices. Serve these with tea in place of lemon. 

CHINA ORANGE PUNCH. 

3 c strong tea J/£ tsp almond extract 

1 c China orange juice Mineral or plain water 

Sugar 

Dilute tea and orange juice with water and sweeten to 
taste. The water may be part mineral. 8 stewed peach 
leaves may be used in place of the almond extract. 

CHINA ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Clean fruit carefully. Squeeze seeds from oranges and 
save juice. Strain juice free from seeds. Put skins and pulp 
through a meat chopper, and place in kettle. Add juice and 
boil. Then add measure for measure of sugar, stirring until 
sugar is dissolved, and boil until it becomes glassy. 

Or pour boiling water over oranges and let stand over 
night. Then peel skins off and cut into strips. Free pulp 
from seeds, add skins, and boil slowly. Add equal measure 
sugar and boil until thick and glassy. 

CHINA ORANGE AND PAPAYA MARMALADE— 1. 

To 1 measure papaya allow y 2 measure China oranges. 
Wash oranges well. Squeeze out seeds and juice. Put skins 
through a meat chopper and add to the juice, strained free 
from seeds. Add papaya pulp cut in small pieces and boil all 
together; then add as much sugar as pulp. Boil again for 15 
or 20 minutes. 

CHINA ORANGE AND PAPAYA MARMALADE— 2. 

To 6 c papaya cut in small pieces add y$ c China orange 
juice. Boil 15 minutes and add y 2 as much sugar as pulp. 
Boil again for 15 or 20 minutes. 



18 

CHINA ORANGE PRESERVES. 

Pour over oranges a boiling salt brine and leave over night. 
In morning drain and pour on fresh water. Wipe oranges 
and open at stem end with small silver knife. Remove seeds 
without breaking the fruit. Make a syrup of 4 parts sugar 
to 1 part water. Boil and drop oranges in. Boil hard for 
y A to 1 hr. 

CHINA ORANGE PIE. 

Juice and pulp 7 oranges 1 c sugar 

1 egg 1 tbsp corn-starch 

y 2 c boiling water 

Peel oranges and remove seeds, saving juice. Dissolve 
corn-starch in a little cold water and cook in the boiling 
water, adding sugar o,ranges, and beaten egg. Pour into a 
pie crust and bake. Strips of pie crust may be placed on 
the top, or a meringue added when the pie is done, and 
browned in the oven. 

CHINA ORANGE JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine \y 2 c boiling water 

y 2 c cold water y$ c sugar 

y 2 c orange juice y 2 c China orange juice 

Soak the gelatine in cold water 5 minutes, and dissolve in 
the boiling water. Add sugar and stir until dissolved and 
cool. Then add fruit juice and strain through cloth into 
mold. Set on ice to harden. 

CHINA ORANGE SPONGE. 

ys box gelatine 1 c sugar 

y c cold water Whites 3 eggs 

1 c boiling water Juice 6 China oranges 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes and dissolve in boil- 
ing water. Add sugar and strain. Place in ice water, and 
when it thickens beat in the stiffly whipped egg whites, and 
beat with a Dover egg beater until light and spongy. Put 
lightly into glass dish, or place in mold on ice. 

CHINA ORANGE SHERBET. 

2 c sugar 1 qt. water 

White 1 egg y 2 c China orange juice 

Boil the sugar and water 20 minutes, stirring until the sugar 
is dissolved. Cool and add China orange juice. Freeze, and 
when partly frozen add the beaten white of egg. 



19 



COCONUT 

The coconut may be used both in the ripe and unripe 
state. It ranks high in food value, containing- 25 per cent, 
fat and 14 per cent, starch. The milk is a refreshing drink, 
and may be used in place of cow's milk. To extract the milk 
from old coconuts, grate coconut and pour over it boiling 
water, 1 pt. to a coconut. Stir well, strain and squeeze 
through a cotton cloth. 

To keep grated coconut, sprinkle it with sugar and place 
on a sieve in the sun to dry. 

" KOELE PALAU." 

Mash baked or boiled sweet potato and pour over an equal 
measure of grated coconut milk. Sweeten to taste. Serve hot. 

" HAUPIA." 

Take equal measures of pia or corn-starch and grated co- 
conut. Soften the pia with water. Heat the sweetened 
coconut milk and pour in pia gradually. Stir only one way, 
until very smooth. Serve cold. Pia is a Hawaiian starch. 

" KULOLO." 

Mix well \y 2 lbs. grated raw taro with the milk and 
strained juice of a grated coconut. Add a little salt and 
enough sugar to take away the sharp biting taste of the taro, 
about 2 tbsp. Bake slowly for 2 or 3 hrs. Sweet potatoes 
can be used instead of taro. 

COCONUT AND CORN PUDDING. 

1 doz. ears corn 1 grated coconut 

1 pt. milk 4 eggs 

1 tsp salt 34 tsp black pepper 

Cut corn from the cob, and mix with coconut and beaten 
yolks of eggs. Add salt, pepper, and milk. Stir in the 
beaten whites of eggs and bake in a pudding dish 1 hr. Serve 
as a vegetable. 

COCONUT PUDDING— 1. 

2 eggs 3 tbsp sugar 

2 tbsp corn-starch \y 2 c cow's or coconut milk 
y 2 c grated coconut 



20 

Put milk on stove, add sugar, stirring. When it begins to 
boil, add corn-starch which has been dissolved in a little cold 
milk. Stir, and as it thickens add the beaten white of eggs. 
Remove, and when partly cool, add grated coconut. Mix 
well and turn into a mold. Make a custard with the yolks 
of eggs, 1 c milk and 2 tbsp sugar. Pour custard around 
pudding when served. 

COCONUT PUDDING— 2. 

1 pt. milk 2 tbsp corn-starch 

Yolks 2 eggs 2 tbsp sugar 

Pinch salt 

Heat part of the milk, salt, and sugar. Dissolve the corn- 
starch in the remainder of the milk. Add it to the heated 
milk, and when cooked add the beaten yolks of eggs, and %. 
c grated coconut. Flavor with vanilla. Beat whites stiff, 
sweeten and flavor with lemon; spread on top and brown 
quickly in hot oven. 

YOUNG COCONUT. 

Serve young coconut in the shell, or scoop out and serve 
in a dish. Stewed mulberries may be added to the coconut. 

COCONUT PIE. 

1 pt. coconut or cow's milk 2 eggs 

1 c grated coconut 3 tbsp sugar 

Y4 tsp salt 

Bake pie crust. Beat yolks of eggs; add sugar, milk, co- 
conut, and salt. Make 1 thick or 2 thin pies. Bake 30 
minutes. Add meringue of white of eggs beaten with 2 tbsp 
sugar and flavored with vanilla. Brown slightly in oven. 

COCONUT COOKIES. 

1 c grated coconut y 2 c milk 
I/2 c sugar 2 eggs 

24 c butter 2 tsp baking powder 

2 c flour Grated rind 1 lemon or y 2 tsp extract 

Mix butter, sugar, beaten eggs, and milk. Sift flour, baking 
powder, and salt. Add this to the first mixture and grate the 
lemon over it. Stir in the coconut, and add enough flour 
to roll out; or drop in rough cakes on greased pans. Bake 
15 minutes in moderate oven. 



21 

COCONUT FILLING OR FROSTING. 

y 2 c grated coconut 24 c powdered sugar 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Beat the eggs stiff, add sugar; beat, and add coconut. 

COCONUT SAUCE. 

1 c grated coconut y 2 c butter 

1 egg 1 c sugar 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg, and beat well, 
adding coconut. 

COCONUT DROPS. 

\y 2 c sugar 2 c grated coconut 

White 1 egg Salt 

Boil the sugar and coconut until it becomes sticky. When 
cool, add the stiffly beaten white of an egg to which a little 
salt has been added. Beat together and drop from spoon on 
buttered pans, and bake in moderate oven 15 minutes or 
until brown. Take pan from oven, and let cool before taking 
up the drops. 

COCONUT FONDANT CANDY. 

Dissolve 1 c sugar in 1 c water. Add tsp cream of tartar. 
Boil to soft ball stage, taking care that the syrup does not 
form crystals on the side of the pan. 'Grate coconut and mix 
with the fondant as much as it will hold well. Spread on 
buttered plates, and cut into 1 inch squares. Leave to harden. 

COCONUT CREAM CANDY. 

Boil y 2 c milk with 3 c brown sugar, add 2 c grated coco- 
nut, and cook until it strings. Flavor with vanilla. Set in 
pan of cold water to cool, and beat hard until creamy. Drop 
on paraffin or buttered paper. 

COCONUT MOUSSE. 

y 2 c boiling milk lpt. cream 

1 c grated coconut 3 tbsp orange juice 

1 tsp gelatine 2 tbsp cold water 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in boiling milk. 
When cool, add coconut, orange juice, and whipped cream. 
Place in mold or freezer, and pack in salt and ice for 4 hours. 



22 



COFFEE 

The Hawaiian Kona coffee is considered by some the best 
in the world. It should be kept in an air-tight container and 
freshly ground before using. 

COFFEE BEVERAGE. 

Kona coffee has been found best made in this way. Allow 
1 tbsp coffee to 1 c water. Measure and leave over night. In 
morning simmer, but not boil, 20 minutes. No egg is needed 
to clear. 

COFFEE JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine 3 c black coffee 

y 2 c cold water y± c sugar 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the hot 
coffee. Add sugar and stir until it dissolves. Strain and 
turn into a mold. Serve with whipped cream. 

COFFEE JUNKET. 

3 c milk 1 c strong coffee 

2 tbsp sugar 1 tbsp cold water 

Junket tablet 

Crush and dissolve junket tablet in tbsp water. Heat milk, 
add sugar and coffee. Take from fire and when lukewarm 
add junket tablet. Serve with cream. 

COFFEE SPONGE. 

1 c black coffee 1 c sugar 

y 2 box gelatine ^ c c °ld water 

Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve in boil- 
ing coffee and add sugar, stirring. Strain and set in ice 
water. When it begins to thicken, beat the whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, and whip the jelly into them, a spoonful at a 
time. Beat with an egg beater. Pour into mold and place 
on ice to harden. Serve with cream. 



23 





COFFEE 


SPANISH 


CREAM. 




Ya 


box gelatine 




2 eggs 




1/2 


c strong coffee 


Pinch 


salt 


2 A f 


c sugar 




1 tsp vanilla 






% c milk 







Soak gelatine in y 2 c cold coffee 5 minutes. Boil 1 c coffee 
and milk. Add beaten egg yolks and cook 3 minutes; then 
add sugar, dissolved gelatine, and salt. When cold, beat in 
stiffly whipped whites of eggs, flavor and place in mold on 
ice. Serve with cream. 

COFFEE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

24 box gelatine y 2 c clear coffee 

1 c milk y 2 c sugar 

34 tsp salt 2 tbsp powdered sugar 

3 c cream Lady fingers 

Soak gelatine in cold milk and dissolve over hot water, 
adding y 2 c sugar. Beat egg yolks, add powdered sugar, 
salt, scalded milk, and coffee. Strain and set in ice water. 
Stir until it thickens ; then fold in the whipped cream. Turn 
into mold lined with lady fingers. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 

1 pt. whipped cream y c sugar 

1 tbsp gelatine y$ c coffee 

Whites of 3 eggs 
Soak gelatine in a little cold water 5 minutes and dis- 
solve in the hot coffee. Cool. Beat all together and place 
in freezer or mold packed in equal parts of salt and ice for 
4 hrs. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

\y 2 c boiling coffee 1 pt. cream 

Yz c powdered sugar y 2 box gelatine 

y 2 c cold water 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, and add it to the hot coffee. 
Sweeten, turn into a mold in ice water, and when it thickens 
fold in whipped cream and place on ice to harden. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. cream 1 c sugar 

y 2 c black coffee 
Bought bottled cream can be diluted with milk. Scald the 
cream and sugar in a double boiler, and when cold add the 
coffee. Freeze. 



24 



FIG 

The fig is considered one of the most healthful fruits 
known. Here in Hawaii we have but one common variety. 

FIGS SIMPLEST. 

Peel figs and slice. Eat with sugar and cream. 

Or cut 2 figs in halves, and place the four halves on a plate 
in form of four leafed clover. Sugar, and put a maraschino 
cherry in each. Strawberries or seeded grapes could be used 
in place of cherries. Eat with spoon. 

FIG SALAD. 

Peel and slice figs and mix with shredded pineapple. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

Or peel and fill figs with chopped nuts and cover with 
mayonnaise. 

PICKLED FIGS. 

Place figs in jars with cinnamon bark and cloves. Make 
a syrup of y 2 c sugar and 1 qt. vinegar. Boil and pour into 
jars. Seal tight. 

SPICED FIGS. 

1 pt. vinegar 4 lb. sugar 

7 lbs. figs Cinnamon, cloves 

Make a syrup of the vinegar and sugar. Season with 2 
parts cinnamon to 1 part cloves, tied in a cloth, and boil 20 
minutes. Wash and wipe figs. Drop them in the syrup and 
boil 10 or 15 minutes, or until tender when pierced with 
straw. Take out and place in sterilized jars with 2 slices 
of lemon in each. Boil syrup down and pour in jars. 

Hawaiian ohias, or mountain apples, can be spiced in the 
same manner, taking care not to remove the skin, which 
contains the flavor of the fruit. 

FIG PRESERVE. 

Take equal weight of figs and sugar. Boil sugar with a 
little water and add figs. Boil, remove and spread on flat 
plates to cool. Repeat this two or three times and cook until 
fruit is clear. 



25 

DRIED FIGS. 

Take figs when the skins begin to crack. Pour over boil- 
ing water in which a little soda has been dissolved. Take 
the figs out and then dip again. Place on trays exposed to 
the sun for a few days. 

FIG JAM. 

Peel ripe figs and boil in double boiler until soft. Strain 
through colander and add y 2 as much sugar; boil again and 
add lemon or pineapple for flavoring. 

FIG JELLY. 

To 1 doz. figs allow 1 lemon. Peel and slice figs and add 
unpeeled and sliced lemon. Cook slowly until perfectly soft. 
Strain through cloth bag and add as much sugar as fruit 
juice. 

FIG PUDDING. 

3 large or y 2 lb. fresh figs 1 c brown sugar 

1 c milk 24 c suet 

1 pt. bread crumbs 1 egg 

Chop figs and suet together. Add bread crumbs, sugar, 
milk, and egg. Boil 4 hrs. in double boiler. Serve with lemon 
sauce. 

FIG CANDY. 

2 c sugar y 2 c milk 

2 tbsp butter 8 figs 

Make a syrup of the sugar, milk, and butter. When it boils, 
add figs chopped very fine. Beat until creamy. Put in a 
buttered pan to cool and cut in squares. 

FIG PIE. 

y 2 lb. figs for one pie. Chop figs very fine and cook 
with 1 c cold water, juice 1 lemon, and little sugar. When 
soft and smooth, cool and add yolk of egg. Put in pie crust 
and bake. Remove and cover with a meringue made of the 
white of egg and 1 tbsp sugar flavored with vanilla. Brown 
in oven. 

FIGS IN JELLY. 

1 doz. large figs 4 tbsp sugar 

y 2 c cold water 1 c whipped cream 

y 2 box gelatine 1 tsp vanilla extract 



26 

Cover figs with boiling water, and cook slowly until ten- 
der. Pour off juice, and boil until reduced to 1 c. Add 
sugar and gelatine soaked in cold water. Strain, and when 
cool add vanilla and red coloring. Mold in shallow dish, 
and when firm cut into dice. Arrange figs in glass dish, and 
garnish with jelly and whipped cream. 

FIGS AND ORANGE JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine 1 c orange juice 

y 2 c cold water Juice 1 lemon 

y 2 c sugar Figs 

Take 1 c sliced figs, cover with water, and cook slowly 
until tender. Strain, and put 1 c juice in saucepan; add 

sugar and gelatine dissolved in cold water, and lemon and 
orange juices. When it thickens, add figs. Serve with 

cream. 

CAKES OF FIGS. 

Stew slowly ripe peeled figs to smooth pulp. Add little 
sugar and flavor. Stir constantly till reduced to a thin pulp 
free of lumps. Pour into pans or molds and dry in the stove, 
sun or dryer. When perfectly dry, wrap each cake in oiled 
paper and keep in a dry place. 

FIG SOUFFLE. 

Beat 1 c of mashed figs with the whites of 3 eggs and 
bake in the oven. 

FIG FILLING. 

10 chopped figs y 2 c sugar 1 c water 

Boil together until thick. When cool, spread between and 
on top of cake. 

FIG ICE CREAM. 

Mix 1 qt. of cream with 2 c sugar and freeze partially. 
Then add 2 c mashed figs, and finish freezing. 

FIG SHERBET. 

1 c water 1 c water-lemon juice 

2 c sugar 2 c mashed figs 

Boil the water and sugar. Cool and add the water-lemon 
juice. When partly frozen, add the mashed figs. 



27 



GRAPES 

With the exception of the dates, grapes exceed all other 
fruits in amount of sugar, which varies from 12 to 26 per 
cent. No sugar is needed when fruits are preserved in grape 
juice. 

CANNED GRAPES. 

Wash grapes; put in sterilized jars and steam for 30 
minutes. Then fill jars with boiling syrup made of 2 parts 
water and 1 part sugar. Screw covers on tight. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Put clean grapes into porcelain kettle with little water, 
and cook slowly until seeds and pulp separate. Strain 
through cheese cloth, and return juice to kettle. When at 
boiling point, add y 2 as much sugar as juice and dissolve. 
Boil slowly for about 6 minutes. Fill sterilized bottles and 
seal at once. For a drink, add lemon juice or slices of lemon 
and cracked ice. 

GRAPE SYRUP. 
7 lbs. grapes 2y 2 oz. tartaric acid 

Put grapes into large stone jar and cover with water. 
Dissolve acid in little Avater and pour over fruit, mixing 
thoroughly. Let stand 24 hours. Strain carefully and to 
each pt. juice add 1*4 pt. sugar, and set aside, stirring occa- 
sionally until dissolved, which will take from 12 to 24 hours ; 
then bottle. It will never ferment. As there is no cooking, 
the fresh flavor of the grapes is preserved. For drink, pour 
little into glasses with crushed ice and aerated water. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Wash slightly green grapes after taking from stems. Add 
little water, cover and cook 10 or 15 minutes until soft. 
Strain juice through cloth and add equal measure sugar. 
Boil uncovered until it jellies. 

GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Squeeze off skins of grapes. Cook pulp and skins sepa- 
rately with very little water. When seeds drop out of pulp, 
strain and add 2 /$ c sugar to each c pulp and sweetened 
skins. For grape butter, cook slowly for a longer time. 



. 28 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Cook slowly pulp and skins of grapes separately. Strain 
pulp; then add to it the skins. To 1 c pulp add y 2 c sugar, 
2 or 3 cloves, other spices if desired, and 1 tbsp vinegar. 
Simmer until a rich color. 

GRAPE PIE. 

Use grape marmalade between 2 crusts, the top slatted. 

GRAPE FILLING FOR CAKE. 

Mix grape preserve with cream and put between layers 
of cake just before serving. 

GRAPE SALAD. 

Remove seeds and skins from grapes, combine with sliced 
bananas, and serve with mayonnaise. 

GRAPE SPONGE. 

Y^ box gelatine £4 c sugar 

Yi c cold water 1 c grape juice 

Whites 2 eggs , Juice 1 lemon 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve by standing dish 
in hot water. Dissolve sugar in fruit juice and strain the 
gelatine into the mixture. Set in ice and water and when 
it thickens add beaten whites of eggs, and beat with egg 
beater until it is light and spongy. Put into glass dish or 
shape in mold on ice. Serve with cream or boiled custard 
made from the yolks of the eggs. 

GRAPE JUICE JELLY. 

1 box gelatine 1 c cold water 

1 pt. grape juice \y 2 pts. boiling water 

Juice 2 lemons \y 2 c sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve in boil- 
ing water. Strain and add lemon and grape juices and 
sugar. Set in ice water, and when it thickens add grapes 
cut in halves and seeded. Mold on ice and garnish with 
violets when served. 

GRAPES IN JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine 1 c grapes 

1 c sugar y 2 c powdered sugar 

Grated rind and juice 1 lemon 2 c grape juice 



29 



Soak gelatine in grape juice, and dissolve over boiling 
water Add sugar and lemon juice. When dissolved add 
grated rind and powdered sugar. Set in ice water to thicken; 
Then add seeded and skinned grapes and place on ice. 
GRAPE WHIP. 

1 Pt. cream H* sugar 

IX c grape juiee Wh lt es 2 eggs 

Beat the egg whites and add fruit juice mixed with sugar. 
Add cream and beat. As froth rises, take .t off and dram 
on a siev™ Pour the unwhipped mixture into glasses, and 
pile with whip on top. Serve cold. 

GRAPE JUICE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
y 4 box gelatine X c cold water 

</ 4 c boiling water M C cream 

1 c grape juice Lady fingers 

Juice J4 lemon 
Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes and dissolve in 
bofinrg water. Add grape and lemon jnices JZ»* m J& 
water and when it thickens fold m cream. Turn into mold 
fined with lady fingers. Serve garmshed with violets. 

GRAPE SHERBET. 

IX c grape juice WhiteTWg 

3 c water Wnite l e&s 

Juice 1 lemon 

Boil sugar and water, and when cool, add fruit juice. 
Freeze partly, add egg white and finish freezing. 
GRAPE MOUSSE. 

1 tsp gelatine 4 tbsp cold water 

3 tbsp sugar X tsp vamlla extract 

1 c grape juice 1 pt. cream 

Soak o-elatine in cold water, and dissolve over boiling 
water Add sugar, vanilla, and grape juice Beat well and 
foW in whipped" cream. Place in mold or freezer packed m 
salt and ice for 4 hours. 

GRAPE ICE CREAM. 
Add 1 pt. grape juice to 1 qt. cream or custard mixture 
when partly frozen. Use fresh or preserved grapes. 



30 



GUAVA 

There are several varieties of guavas, the sour red, the 
sweet white, and the small strawberry. As tin discolors 
guavas, the pulp should be pressed through a net or hair 
sieve. 

Guavas may be dried in an evaporator, to keep for home 
use when out of season, or exported to be used for jellies 
and preserves. 

GUAVAS SIMPLEST. 

Peel, slice, and sprinkle liberally with sugar. Let stand 
several hours. Serve cold. 

GUAVAS SERVED IN SKIN. 

1. Take firm, large guavas. Cut off stem ends and with 
spoon loosen pulp around center. Mix this with powdered 
sugar. Serve placed on guava leaves arranged on plates. 

2. Take pulp out of guava and strain through net, ex- 
tracting seeds. Mix with little sugar, or sugar and cream, 
and place in skin again. 

STEWED WHOLE GUAVAS. 

Take skins from guavas, and pierce with a fork. Drop in 
boiling syrup made of 2 parts water and 1 part sugar. Cook 
till tender, but do not break. These are for immediate use. 

STEWED GUAVAS WITHOUT SEEDS. 

Peel skin from guavas carefully with silver knife. Cut 
them in halves lengthwise, and take out seeds with a spoon. 
Place seeds and skins in a saucepan with little water and 
simmer. Cut halves into long strips. When juice is well 
cooked from seeds, strain through net, sweeten, return to 
stove and gently drop the strips into hot juice. Do not stir, 
but press down syrup and remove scum. Simmer until ten- 
der, keeping the form of the strips. If a marmalade is de- 
sired, boil until syrup jellies when dropped, and cooled on a 
saucer. For this add £4 as much sugar as pulp and juice. 

GUAVA SYRUP. 

1 pt. peeled and sliced guavas 1 pt. sugar 

24 pt. water 



31 

Boil the sugar and water until it strings. Add guava pulp, 
and cook till translucent. Strain off the syrup. Reheat and 
pour into sterilized bottles. Seal well. Dilute for use with 
griddle cakes, in ices, and drink when fresh fruit cannot 
be had. 

GUAVA MARMALADE. 

Cut ends off guavas, slice, add little water, and cook until 
soft. Strain free from seeds in a colander. Add ]/ 2 to % 
as much sugar as pulp, and cook over an asbestos mat, stir- 
ring occasionally until it thickens. 

SPICED GUAVA MARMALADE. 

Make the same as above, adding y 2 tsp cinnamon and 



4 tsp cloves to each qt. of fruit pulp. 



GUAVA JELLY. 

Cut ends off guavas, slice, add little water, and cook until 
tender. Pour into cloth bag, and let juice drip over night. In 
morning add equal amount sugar as juice, and boil, stirring 
until sugar is dissolved. When it boils up hard, test by 
dropping fromi a spoon on a saucer. If it jellies when cool, 
the jelly is done. Pour into sterilized glasses, and seal when 
cool with melted paraffin. For a tart jelly to serve with 
meats, use less sugar. In order to have a light colored jelly, 
make in small quantities and cook quickly. Make remain- 
ing pulp into marmalade. 

GUAVA JELLY SAUCE. 

Add a little boiling water to jelly. Spice and thicken with 
corn-starch if desired. Serve with cottage pudding. 

GUAVA JELLY ROLL. 

Make a sponge cake, and bake in large pan. When done, 
place on a cloth, spread with guava jelly, and roll. Sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and roll tight in cloth. 

GUAVA MARMALADE COOKIES. 

1 c sugar y 2 c butter 

y 2 c guava marmalade 34 tsp soda 

Cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar together. Add cinnamon and 
guava marmalade, the soda dissolved in 1 tbsp boiling water, 
and flour enough to roll thin. 



32 

GUAVA MARMALADE CAKE. 

1 c guava marmalade ^4 c buttermilk or sour milk 

2 c flour 1 c sugar 
24 c butter 3 eggs 

y 2 tsp cinnamon y> tsp soda 

y tsp cloves 

Cream sugar and butter, add beaten eggs, marmalade, 
spices, soda dissolved in the milk, and flour. Bake y 2 hour in 
hot oven. 

GUAVA JUJUBE PASTE. 

Make as for jelly, allowing it to cook until it becomes 
tough. Use in fondant, or cut in squares and wrap in paraffin 
paper. 

GUAVA SAUCE. 

1 tbsp butter 1 tbsp flour 

1 c sugar 1 c guava juice 

Stew guava and pour off juice. Melt butter until it bub- 
bles, add flour, mixing thoroughly. Add guava juice in 
which sugar has been stirred. Let boil up well, and serve 
hot with cottage pudding. Guava jelly may be used in place 
of the juice, melting it with boiling water and omitting the 
sugar. 

GUAVA IN JELLY. 

Yi box gelatine y> c cold water 

1 c guava pulp l l / 2 c boiling water 

y c sugar 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the boil- 
ing water. Strain, and add sugar and guava pulp, which has 
been pressed through a net. Pour in mold, and put on ice. 
Serve with cream. 

GUAVA SPONGE. 

}i c sugar y box gelatine 

1 c guava pulp % c cold water 

Whites 2 eggs 

Make as grape sponge and serve with cream. 
GUAVA WHEY AND CHEESE. 

4 guavas 4 tbsp sugar 

1 pt. milk 1 junket tablet 



33 

Press guava pulp through net. Crush junket tablet in tbsp 
cold water. Put milk on stove, and when lukewarm', remove. 
Add dissolved junket tablet and guava pulp. The whey of 
the milk will separate from the curd. Pour off whey, and 
serve iced as a drink. It can be used as lemon whey is in 
invalid cookery. Serve curd as guava cheese. 

GUAVA WHIP. 

4 tbsp sugar 1 c guava pulp White 1 egg 

Press guava pulp through net. Beat white of egg. Add 
sugar to guava pulp, and beat into egg white. Serve iced in 
sherbet glasses. Cream may be added. 

GUAVA SOUFFLE^ 

1 c guava pulp Whites 4 eggs 

Salt Powdered sugar 

Beat egg whites stiffly with pinch of salt. Add guava pulp 
which has been sweetened with powdered sugar. Turn into 
buttered pudding dish, or individual molds, in pan of hot 
water, and bake in slow oven until firm. 

GUAVA SHORTCAKE. 

Mash 2 qts. strawberry guavas, and mix with sugar. Let 
stand 2 hours. Make a biscuit dough, and bake in pie tin. 
When done and still hot, cut edges, and pull apart with forks. 
Turn crumb sides up, and butter. Place sugared guava on 
both sides, leaving juice in container. Place one layer on 
other. Serve sugared guava juice as sauce with shortcake. 

GUAVA PIE. 

Fill pie shell with guava marmalade and bake. When 
done, add meringue made of 2 egg whites and 2 tbsp sugar, 
and brown in the oven. Serve hot or cold. 

GUAVA SNOW WITH CUSTARD SAUCE. 

2 tbsp corn-starch y 2 c boiling water 

2 tbsp cold water V A c sugar 

Whites 2 eggs 1 c guava pulp (preferably white) 

Boil sugar and water. Dissolve corn-starch in cold water 
and add, stirring constantly. When it thickens, take from 



34 

fire and add guava pulp. Beat this into egg whites which 
have been previously whipped stiff. Heap in glass serving 
dish and place on ice. For custard sauce, heat 1 c milk, add 
2 tbsp sugar, and beaten yolks of eggs. Do not boil, but 
steam until it coats a knife blade. Pour this around the 
snow when it is served. 

STEAMED WHIP WITH GUAVA SAUCE. 

Make whip of whites 4 eggs, 2 tbsp sugar, and 1 tsp lemon 
extract. Put into tin mold, and place mold in container of 
boiling water on stove. Steam 20 minutes. Invert mold on 
serving dish. Place around it stewed guavas or guava syrup 
diluted. 

GUAVA MOUSSE. 

1 pt. cream 1 c guava pulp 

1 c powdered sugar ]/^ tsp salt 

Whip cream, add salt, sugar, and guava pulp. Pack 4 hrs. 
in equal parts salt and ice. 

GUAVA SHERBET. 

1 c water 1 c guava pulp 

Y^ tsp gelatine 1 c sugar 

Boil water and sugar 20 minutes; add gelatine softened 
in little cold water, and strain. When cool, add guava pulp 
and freeze. 

GUAVA ICE CREAM. 

1 pt. guava pulp 1 pt. cream 1 pt. sugar 

Scald the cream and sugar, and when cool add the guava pulp. 
Freeze. 



35 



MANGO 

A great many varieties of this fruit have been introduced, 
but the common sour, or chutney, and Hawaiian sweet 
mango can still hold their places. 

To eat a mango, pierce the stem end with a fork or nut 
pick. Hold it in one hand by the fork, and peel with a silver 
knife in the other hand. Eat from the fork. 

Or slice mangoes and eat as peaches. 

PRESERVED MANGOES. 

Peel skin from mangoes which are a little under-ripe. 
Place in glass jars and cover with syrup made of 2 parts 
sugar to 4 parts water. Adjust covers loosely. Place jars 
in steamer and steam until tender, adding more syrup if 
necessary. Seal tight. 

MANGO JELLY. 

Peel and slice mangoes. Add to 7 large mangoes 2y 2 c 
water and boil for 20 minutes. Strain through double cheese 
cloth and add gradually y 2 c water and wash down juice. 
Add equal parts sugar to juice, and boil for 10 minutes, or 
till it jellies when dropped, and cooled on a saucer. 

MANGO MARMALADE— 1. 

Strain the pulp remaining from the jelly through a sieve 
to get the strings out and add 2 /z as much sugar as pulp. 
Boil 20 to 30 minutes, or until thick and glassy. 

MANGO MARMALADE— 2. 

Peel and slice under-ripe mangoes ; cover with water and 
boil until soft. Strain, add y 2 as much sugar as mango and 
boil again, placing an asbestos mat under container. Cook 
until glassy and thick. 

SPICED MANGO MARMALADE. 

Make as marmalade and add Y\ tsp cloves and y 2 tsp cin- 
namon to 1 qt. fruit pulp. 

STEWED MANGO. 
Take mangoes when under-ripe. Peel skins and cut in 
slices. Make syrup of 1 part sugar to 2 parts water, and drop 
slices in. Cook till transparent. 



36 

STEWED RIPE MANGO. 

Peel and slice ripe mangoes. Add sugar and cinnamon, 
and simmer slowly till quite dark, 

MANGO PICKLE. 

Make a syrup of equal parts vinegar and sugar. Place a 
small bag containing 2 parts cinnamon to 1 part cloves in the 
syrup. Peel and slice under-ripe mangoes and drop in the 
boiling syrup. Boil until clear. Skim out and place in jars. 
Boil syrup down to original volume and pour into jars. 

MANGO CHUTNEY. 

Take one 14 inch galvanized bucketful of green chutney 
mangoes; peel and slice them. 

1 lb bleached almonds 1 lb. currants 
Y\ lb. green ginger 34 lb- garlic 

y 2 lb. salt 3 lb. brown sugar 

2 lb. raisins 2 oz. yellow chili pepper 
1 qt. vinegar 

Chop all fine except raisins and currants. Cook 4 hours, 
stirring to prevent burning; put in bottles and seal. Mix 
and let stand over night before cooking if possible. Can be 
made with sweet mangoes, using the juice of 5 or 6 limes 
or lemons. 

MANGO PIE. 

Fill a pie shell with stewed mangoes and bake in 2 crusts. 
A little cinnamon may be added to the mango. 

MANGO SHERBET. 

Stew under-ripe mangoes in little water. Strain and add 
1 c sugar to each \y 2 pt. mangoes. Cool and freeze. 



37 



OHE1LO 

OHELO AND GUAVA JELLY. 

2 qts. ohelo juice y 2 c guava jelly 

iy 2 pts. sugar 

Make as other jellies. This combination resembles cran- 
berry sauce. 

OHELO AND THIMBLEBERRY JELLY. 

Cook 1 measure of ohelos and 2 measures of thimble- 
berries in separate containers until soft. Strain through 
cloth bags and combine juices, adding ^4 as maich sugar as 
juice. Proceed as with other jellies. 

OHELO JAM. 

Boil 2 measures ohelos, y 2 measure sugar and few slices 
lemon for 1 hour or more. 

OHELO SAUCE. 

14 measure sugar % measure guava jelly 

When boiling, add 2 measures of ohelos and remove from 
stove before the ohelos have broken, which will be in a very 
few minutes. The guava jelly may be omitted, but it is an 
improvement. 

OHELO PIE. 

Heat ohelos, adding a little sugar and orange marmalade, 
guava jelly or a slice or two of lemon. Pour off most of the 
juice. Make pie with two crusts, the top one slatted like 
the old-fashioned cranberry tart. Cream is an improvement. 

OHELO SHORTCAKE. 

Make a biscuit dough and bake in a pie tin. Boil 1 c 
sugar and y 2 c water until it strings; then drop in 1 qt. of 
ohelos and boil until soft. When cake is done,_ open, butter 
and fill with part of the berries; remaining berries pour over 
cake when it is served. 



38 



orange: 

Hawaiian oranges are juicier, and contain less of the white, 
pithy portion under the skin, than the imported ones. 

ORANGE DRINK. 

Juice 12 oranges Juice 3 lemons 

1 pineapple Sugar 

Cut pineapple in small pieces. Mix with the juice and 
sweeten to taste. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Wash oranges. Cut in halves crosswise. Squeeze out 
juice and seeds. Take out white, pithy part of pulp in the 
skins. Put the skins and pulp through a meat chopper. 
Place in saucepan of water on the stove and boil, changing 
water 3 times, the last time adding orange juice to skins. 
Measure and add equal measure of sugar. Boil till it be- 
comes glassy, 2 hrs. or longer. 

Or take off orange peel in quarters. Boil, changing the 
water 3 times; then cut into strips and add to the orange 
pulp, which has been freed from seeds. If sweet oranges are 
used, add juice of 1 lemon to every 4 oranges. Boil, add 
equal measure of sugar, and boil again, until thick and 
glassy. This may take an hour. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Juice 1 lemon y 2 c cold water 

Yz box gelatine 1 c boiling water 

1 c sugar 1 pt. orange juice 

Soak gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the boiling 
water. Add sugar and stir until dissolved and cooled. Strain 
and add the orange and lemon juice. Pour into mold or 
orange skins. 

ORANGE AMBROSIA. 

Slice 6 oranges and cover with sugar. Grate y 2 coconut. 
Arrange in glass dish in alternate layers of orange and 
coconut, and heap coconut on too. 



39 

ORANGE AND MINT. 

Pulp 4 oranges 2 tbsp sugar 

2 tbsp lemon juice 2 tbsp finely chopped mint 

Mix all together. Place on ice and serve in sherbet glasses 
as a salad course. 

ORANGE STRAWS. 
Cut orange skins in strips and boil, changing the water 
3 times, until the peel is tender and no longer bitter. Make 
a syrup of equal parts sugar and water, and cook peel in it 
10 minutes. Lift out with a fork, or skimmer, on a plate 
When cool, roll in granulated sugar. Place on buttered 
plate. Roll again in sugar the next day. 
ORANGE SPONGE. 
1 c sugar ]/2 c boiling water 

y 2 box gelatine 1 pt. orange juice 

y 2 c cold water Whites 4 eggs 

Soak gelatine in the cold water 5 minutes, and dissolve 
in the boiling water. Add sugar and stir until dissolved 
and cooled; then add the orange juice. Place in a 
dish of ice water until it thickens; then beat in the whites 
of eggs which have been whipped to a stiff froth. Beat with 
a Dover egg beater until smooth. Turn into a mold and 
place on ice. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. 

5 or 6 oranges 1 pt. milk 

1 c sugar 3 eggs 

1 tbsp corn-starch 

Peel oranges and cut into small pieces, taking out the 
white pulp. C Place in a pudding dish covered with 1 c sugar. 
Make a custard of the milk and yolks of eggs, adding 2 tbsp 
sugar and the corn-starch dissolved in a little cold milk. 
When cool, pour this over the oranges. With the egg whites 
and 2 tbsp powdered sugar make a meringue and spread on 
pudding. Place in oven to brown or serve without browning. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE. 

y 2 box gelatine 1 c cold water 

1 c sugar 1 c orange juice and pulp 

Whites 3 eggs Juice y 2 lemon 

2 c whipped cream 



40 

Soak gelatine in water and dissolve over boiling water. 
Strain and add sugar, lemon juice, orange juice and pulp. 
Place in ice water, and when it thickens, stir until frothy; 
then add whites of eggs stiffly beaten, and fold in cream. 
Line a mold with orange sections, and turn in mixture. Set 
on ice. 

ORANGE WHIP. 

Juice 1 orange 1 pt. cream 

2 tbsp sugar 2 tbsp grated coconut 
1 egg Grated rind of orange 

Mix sugar and coconut with the orange juice and grated 
rind. Whip the cream, and beat the mixture into it. Place 
on ice and serve cold. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Slice 4 peeled oranges. Mix with 1 tbsp lemon juice and 
3 tbsp oil. Arrange in heap on lettuce leaves. In the center 
place 1 c chopped nuts mixed with 1 tbsp lemon juice. 

ORANGE PUDDING FOR TWO. 

1 orange 1 egg 

1 c milk 2 tbsp sugar 

Skin and seed orange. Cut in small pieces, and put in a 
baking dish. Beat the yolk of egg with sugar. Add milk 
and pour over orange. Bake pudding and add meringue 
made of the egg white and 1 tbsp sugar. 

ORANGE TART. 

Beat together juice of 2 oranges, grated peel of 1, ^ c 
sugar, 1 tbsp butter. Add 1 tsp corn-starch dissolved in 
juice of 1 lemon. Bake in tart shells. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Cut oranges into small pieces. Place in pie crust and 
sweeten well. Add seeded raisins, sprinkle with flour and 
cover with upper crust. Bake in hot oven f/ 2 hr. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

y 2 c butter \y 2 c flour 

3 eggs 1 c sugar 

y 2 c orange juice y 2 grated rind of orange 

\y 2 tsp baking powder y tsp salt 



41 

Cream butter and sugar, and add beaten yolks of eggs, 
salt, and grated rind of orange. Beat in orange juice and 
flour which has been sifted with the baking powder. Fold 
in stiffly whipped whites of eggs. Bake in loaf, and when 
cool spread with orange frosting. 

ORANGE FROSTING. 

Mix juice and grated peel of J/£ orange with powdered 
sugar to make stiff enough to spread on cake. 

ORANGE FILLING. 

Juice 1 orange 1^ c sugar" 

34 grated rind 1 tsp butter 

Yolks 2 eggs 

Beat eggs, add sugar, grated rind, butter and juice of 
orange. Cook over hot water, stirring until it thickens. 
Spread between layers of cake. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

1 c sugar 1 c orange juice 

1 pt. water 1 tsp gelatine 

Boil water and sugar, and add gelatine soaked in little 
water 5 minutes. When cool, add orange juice. Strain 
and freeze. 



42 



PAPAYA 

The milky juice of the papaya contains a digestible prin- 
ciple similar to pepsin. Its leaves have the property of 
making tough meat tender when wrapped in them over 
night. 

STEWED PAPAYA— 1. 

2 c diced papaya 34 c water 

y 2 c sugar Juice 2 lemons 

Cut papaya in dice, and stew with sugar, water, and lemon 
juice y 2 hr. Serve in sherbet glasses as a first course for 
luncheon, or a dessert. Can use 4 China oranges in place 
of lemons. 

STEWED PAPAYA— 2. 

Cook in the same manner as 1, with % c sugar and only 
enough water to keep from burning. Serve as a vegetable. 

BAKED PAPAYA. 

Cut papaya in halves lengthwise. Add a little sugar and 
China orange, lime or lemon juice; or a little cinnamon in 
place of the juice. Bake 20 minutes, and serve immediately 
on taking from the oven. This is a vegetable. 

PAPAYA AND CHINA ORANGE MARMALADE. 

(See China Orange.) 
PAPAYA PICKLE. 

Make syrup of 1 measure sugar and y 2 measure vinegar. 
Add a few whole cloves and pepper corns and 2 measures 
of half ripe papaya cut into small pieces. Boil until tender. 

PAPAYA AND GINGER. 

Make a syrup of 1 measure ginger, y 2 measure water, 
some finely sliced dried ginger, and a few slices of lemon. 
Add 2 measures half ripe papaya sliced lengthwise, which 
has been previously simmered in water until clear, but not 
broken. 



43 

PAPAYA COCKTAIL. 

Cut papaya in dice and serve in glasses with cocktail 
sauce and chipped ice. 

Or serve with China orange, lemon or lime juice, and little 
sugar in same manner. 

PAPAYA SALAD— 1. 

On a strip of peeled papaya lay small bits of pomelo and 
orange. Serve with mayonnaise on separate plates, and 
garnish each with one or two nasturtiums and leaves. 

PAPAYA SALAD— 2. 

Cut papaya in cubes, and add 8 small Chinese onions and 
5 pieces green celery chopped fine. Serve with boiled dress- 
ing. 

PAPAYA WHIP. 

To \y 2 c papaya pulp add juice 1 lemon, y 2 c sugar and 
beat into 2 stiffly whipped whites of eggs. 

PAPAYA JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine 1 c boiling water 

y 2 c cold water 1 c papaya pulp 

Juice 1 lemon y 2 c sugar 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve 
the sugar in the boiling water; add the gelatine, and strain. 
When cool, add the papaya and lemon juice. Place on ice 
to harden. 

PAPAYA PIE. 

2 eggs 1 c sugar 

1 c papaya pulp Juice y 2 lemon 

y 2 c butter 

Make a bottom pie crust and bake. Cream butter and 
sugar. Add beaten egfgs, lemon juice, and papaya. Pour 
into pie crust and bake. Make a meringue of whites of 
eggs and 2 tbsp sugar. Place on pie and brown in oven. 

PAPAYA SHERBET. 

Mix 4 c papaya pulp with 2 c sugar and juice of 2 lemons, 
and freeze. 



44 



pineapple: 

The pineapple is the only fruit known to contain a vege- 
table pepsin which aids digestion. In order to get the full 
benefit of this digestive principle, the fruit should be eaten 
fresh and without sugar. This vegetable pepsin dissolves 
albuminous substances, and hence the juice should be scalded 
before combining with milk, eggs, or gelatine. 

TO SERVE FRESH PINEAPPLE. 

Slice or grate pineapple, sprinkle with sugar and set in 
the ice box for several hours before serving. Pineapples do 
not sweeten if picked green. 

PINEAPPLE JUICE. 

Press out juice from pineapple and strain through flannel. 
To each measure of juice add y 2 measure of sugar. Bring 
to boiling point, or stand in rapidly boiling water for 1 hour. 
Bottle while hot in sterilized containers. Use with lemon 
and water as a cold drink, or in punches, puddings, and 
sauces. It is good in hot or cold tea, with or without lemon. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Allow 1 measure sugar to 2 measures grated pineapple. 
Mix well and let stand over night. Next morning cook 
slowly for 2 hours or more. 

PINEAPPLE PICKLE. 

Take 1 measure vinegar, 3 measures brown sugar, a few 
whole cloves and pepper corns. Boil together. Add 4 
measures pineapple cut into small pieces, and boil until 
fruit is golden yellow. If the syrup is not rich, boil down 
before pouring it over the fruit. If preferred, use 1 tsp cin- 
namon to y 2 tsp cloves tied in cloth for spicing. The pickles 
are best made in pineapple vinegar. 

PINEAPPLE VINEGAR. 

Press out juice from fresh pineapple and strain through 
double cheese cloth. Place in jar and leave to ferment 2 or 
3 weeks. It improves with age. 



45 

PINEAPPLE IN OHELO JUICE. 

Boil slowly together 1 measure of minced pineapple and 
1 measure of ohelo juice until the pineapple is tender. Then 
add Yz measure of sugar and boil slowly for 2 or 3 hours, or 
until the fruit is the color of quince preserve. 

PINEAPPLE CHIPS. 

Cut pineapple into thin strips, lay on china dishes, and 
cover with granulated sugar. Keep strips separate. Dry in 
the sun or hot air closet. Sprinkle with sugar and turn 
every day, pouring off the syrup. When the chips are dry 
or crystallized, pack in jars or tin boxes with oiled paper 
between. 

CANDIED PINEAPPLE. 

To 1 measure of thickly sliced and cored pineapple add 1 
measure of sugar. Boil together until the fruit is of a rich 
golden color. Take from the syrup, spread on dishes in the 
sun, turning every day until dry. 

PINEAPPLE AND OHELO JELLY. 

Boil pineapple and ohelos separately. Strain through jelly 
bag. To 1 measure pineapple juice and 1 of ohelo juice add 
1 measure white sugar. Cook the same as other jellies. The 
ohelos bring out the pineapple flavor. 

PINEAPPLE AND GUAVA JELLY. 

Cut ends off guavas, add a little water and cook until 
soft. Peel equal amount of pineapple. Cut in small pieces 
and cook until soft. Strain both juices through a bag. Add 
equal amount of sugar and boil again, stirring until the 
sugar is dissolved. Skim off scum, and when it boils up 
hard, test by dropping on a saucer. If it jellies when cool, 
it is done. Pour into sterilized bottles and seal. 

PINEAPPLE CHUTNEY. 

2 oz. pepper \y 2 lbs. brown sugar 

1 oz. garlic \]/ 2 pts. vinegar 

3 lbs. pineapple y 2 

2 tbsp ginger 

1 tbsp salt 



46 

Cook pineapple, vinegar, and salt. Chop nuts, raisins, 
garlic, and pepper fine, and add to pineapple. As the pine- 
apple is juicy, it requires boiling down. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Pare and cut in dice 1 pineapple. Wash and cut fine y 2 
as much celery. Whip ]/ 2 c cream or white 1 egg into 
mayonnaise, and mix part with the pineapple and celery. 
Place this on lettuce leaves. On top heap remaining mayon- 
naise and garnish with celery tips. 

PINEAPPLE MINCE MEAT— 1. 

Mix 1 measure minced cooked pineapple, y 2 measure 
raisins and currants, some thinly sliced citron or orange 
peel, or both. Powdered cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg to 
taste. Syrup from sweet pickles or sweetened vinegar. Be- 
fore making the pies, add chopped bananas or apples. 

PINEAPPLE MINCE MEAT— 2. 

1 pt. chopped meat 3 c brown sugar 

3 pts. crushed pineapple \y 2 c molasses 

with juice (canned or fresh) Butter size of egg 

1 extra c pineapple juice 2 tsp cinnamon 

\y 2 c raisins 2 tsp allspice 

1 c currants 1 tsp cloves 

1 tbsp salt y 2 tsp pepper 

Simmer all together for an hour, stirring often. Add 1 
tbsp corn-starch dissolved in a little cold water, and boil 
again. Then add 1 c wine or brandy, and seal in glass jars. 
When making the pies, heat the meat, and add 2 tbsp brandy 
to each pie. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

1 grated pineapple 2 tbsp flour 

1 c water 2 c sugar 

2 eggs Salt 

Mix all together, and bake in 2 crusts. This makes 2 
large or 3 small pies. 

PINEAPPLE AND GUAVA PUDDING. 

Boil 2 c grated pineapple and y> c guava jelly very slowly 
for 20 minutes. Add 1 tbsp corn-starch dissolved in little 
cold water, and stir until clear. Serve cold with cream. 



47 
PINEAPPLE SHORTCAKE. 

-Make the same as pineapple and guava pudding without 
corn-starch. Pour between and on top of rich biscuit crust, 
and serve at once. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

To 5 measures grated pineapple add 1 measure white 
sugar. Boil slowly till clear and seal. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

1 tbsp gelatine 1 c grated pineapple 

y 2 c boiling water 2 tbsp sugar 

Juice ]/ 2 lemon or 1 tsp lemon extract 

Soak gelatine in y c cold water and dissolve in the boil- 
ing water. Add sugar and lemon juice. Strain, and when 
cool set on ice for ]/ 2 hr. When it thickens, beat in the 
grated pineapple that has been previously brought to boil- 
ing point. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

2 tbsp gelatine 2 c pineapple juice 

y 2 c cold water 1 c sugar 

1 pt. cream 

Soak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes. Dissolve by set- 
ting container in boiling water. Heat to boiling point pine- 
apple juice and add sugar. Combine, and let cool in ice 
water. When it thickens, beat in cream, previously scalded. 
Place on ice. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

1 grated pineapple 2 /z c sugar 

y 2 box gelatine y 2 c cold water 

Whites 2 eggs Lemon juice 

Let pineapple simmer on stove 10 minutes. Add sugar 
and lemon juice. Soak gelatine in the cold water and dis- 
solve in pineapple. Strain into mold, let cool, and set on 
ice for y 2 hour. Then add stiffly beaten whites of eggs, and 
beat well. Set on ice until served. 



48 



PINEAPPLE JARDINIERE. 

Cut top from pineapple and reserve for cover. Scoop out 
the inside and combine with 2 bananas, 2 oranges, and the 
seedless pulp of 1 c grapes. Add sugar and serve cold in 
the pineapple rind. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

3 tbsp instantaneous tapioca 4 tbsp sugar 

1 c cold water 2 c fresh pineapple juice 

1 tbsp butter 2 eggs 

Soak the tapioca in the cold water, add % tsp salt 
and sugar. Boil until clear, adding as little water as pos- 
sible. Beat the yolks of eggs and stir them and the butter 
into the mixture. When smooth, take from the fire, add 
pineapple and y 2 tsp lemon extract. Turn into a baking 
dish. Beat the egg whites with 2 tbsp sugar and put on 
top. Brown 2 or 3 minutes in very hot oven. 

PINEAPPLE AND COCONUT. 

Cut fresh pineapple in small triangles, and place in a dish 
with a mound of grated coconut and sugar on top. Serve 
as a dessert. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET—1. 

1 pt. scalded pineapple juice y 2 tsp gelatine 

1 pt. water Juice 1 lemon 

1 pt. sugar 

Soak the gelatine in %. c cold water for 10 minutes. Add 
1 c boiling water, and stir until dissolved. Add sugar and 
24 c cold water; then pineapple juice which has been strained 
and measured after straining. Freeze. Either canned or 
fresh pineapple may be used. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET— 2. 

2 large pineapples 1 pt. water 

2 c sugar Juice 4 lemons 

Whites 4 eggs 

Grate pineapple to extract the juice, strain and add juice of 
lemons. Add sugar to the whipped whites of eggs. Com- 
bine and freeze at once. 



49 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Scald 1 pt. of pineapple juice. Add juice y 2 lemon, and 
sweeten .to taste. Add this to 1 qt. of any plain cream when 
partly frozen. 

PINEAPPLE MOUSSE. 

1 c pineapple syrup 1 tsp gelatine 

1 pt. cream 2 tbsp cold water 

1 c powdered sugar % tsp salt 

Heat 1 can pineapple and drain juice. Soak gelatine in 
tlie cold water and dissolve in the hot syrup. Add salt, 
lemon juice, and sugar. Strain and cool. Place in ice water 
and when it thickens fold in whipped cream. Freeze in 
freezer or mold, packed in equal parts salt and ice for 4 hours. 



50 



POHA 

POHA JAM. 

Stew pohas with little water until soft. Measure and add 
equal measure of sugar. Cook until glassy. An asbestos 
mat under the saucepan will prevent burning. 

POHA JELLY. 

Cook pohas with little water until the juice comes well 
out. Strain through a cloth bag, and add equal measure 
of sugar. Cook until it jellies when dropped on ,a saucer 
and cooled. 

Or serve syrup before it has jellied with plain ice cream. 

POHA PIE— 1. 

Fill a pie crust with stewed pohas, and add 1 tbsp butter. 
Cover with upper crust and bake 30 minutes in hot oven. 

POHA PIE— 2. 

Line a pie dish with paste, and bake. When done, put in 
a layer of poha jam, then a custard made of 1 c milk, 1 tsp 
butter, 1 tsp corn-starch dissolved in a little cold milk, the 
yolks of 2 eggs, and vanilla flavoring. Spread the sweetened 
whipped egg whites on top, and brown slightly in hot oven. 
Serve cold. 

POHA JAM COOKIES. 

Use a good, but not too rich, cooky recipe. Roll out and 
cut into strips 4 inches wide. Spread almost half the width 
with poha jam and fold over the other half, pinching the 
edges together. Then cut in 3 inch lengths and bake. 

POHA JAM SURPRISES. 

Make soft, thin baking powder biscuit rounds about the 
size of saucers. Put a little poha jam on one side, and turn 
over the other, wetting the edges and pinching together. 
Bake quickly and serve warm. 

POHA SHORTCAKE. 

Boil pohas in almost no water for a few moments. There 
should be very few broken. Pour off most of the juice. 
Sweeten, and thicken the remainder with a little corn-starch. 
Serve with biscuit rounds for shortcake or bake between 2 
pie crusts. 



51 



POMELO AND SHADDOCK 

The pomelo is the same fruit as the grape fruit, but the 
name pomelo is now given the preference. The shaddock 
is the large, coarse form< of the ,same species. 

TO SERVE POMELO. 

1. Cut fruit in halves. Separate pulp from skin with 
silver knife. Cut out White pulp in center, and free juice 
in lobes by running knife through them. Add sugar and 
place on ice until served. A maraschino cherry may be 
placed in center of each half. 

2. Cut in halves. Take all pulp out. Mix with sugar 
and place on ice 1 or 2 hours before serving. Serve for 
breakfast, or first course for luncheon. , 

POMELO ASPIC SALAD. 

Cut and divide pomelo into sections. Lay these on a flat 
dish and sprinkle with chopped nuts. Take y 2 box gelatine 
and soak in y 2 c cold water 5 minutes. Add \y 2 c boiling 
water. When dissolved, strain and season with salt, 1 tbsp 
lemon juice and paprika. Pour this over pomelo and nuts, 
and When cool set on ice to harden. Serve cut in .blocks on 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 

POMELO SALAD. 

Cut pomelo into halves. Take out pulp and divide into 
sections. Mix with chopped nuts, and replace in half skins. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 

POMELO JELLY. 

y 2 box gelatine 2 c pomelo juice and pulp 

y 2 c cold water Juice 1 lemon 

1 c boiling water 1 c or less sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in boiling water. 
Add sugar, lemon juice, and pomelo juice and pulp. Let 
partly set before turning into mold, in order to avoid set- 
tling of pulp. May be served in baskets made of pomelo 
skins. 



52 

POMELO MARMALADE. 

To 2 pomelos allow 2 lemons. Cut pomelos in halves and 
remove centers and seeds. Remove seeds from lemons and 
grind all in a meat chopper. Cover with boiling water and 
let stand over night. Cook till tender, then add 2 c sugar 
and cook until it thickens and becomes glassy. 

Or take off peel of pomelos in quarters and boil, changing 
the water 3 times; then scrape out the white, pithy portion, 
and cut skin in strips. Free pulp from seeds and cut in small 
pieces. Add this to the skins and boil until thick and glassy. 

CANDIED POMELO PEEL. 

Slice peel and cover with water, adding 1 tbsp salt to 1 qt. 
water. Leave over night. In morning drain and place peel 
in saucepan, a little more than covering it with fresh water, 
and boil gently 4 hours. Drain, add cold water as before, 
and boil till tender. Again drain, weigh peel, and add equal 
weight sugar and 1 c water to each pound. Boil gently 1 
hour with saucepan covered. Remove cover and let simmer 
till syrup is all absorbed, taking care not to burn. Spread 
on platter and leave 24 hours, or until it seems fairly dry; 
then roll each piece in fine granulated sugar, shaking off the 
sugar to prevent caking. Let stand few hours to dry; then 
place in covered jar. 

TO SERVE SHADDOCK. 

1. Extract pulp from shaddock and add orange juice and 
little sugar. Serve iced in sherbet glasses. 

2. Extract pulp from shaddock and serve with seeded 
dried dates or figs which give the required sweetness. 

SHADDOCK SALAD. 

Extract pulp from shaddock, ice and serve on lettuce 
leaves with mayonnaise. 



53 



TARO 

The taro, or kalo, though not a fruit, is the typical Ha- 
waiian vegetable. It is very acrid, and stings the mouth 
if under cooked. 

BOILED TARO. 

Cut skin from taro, divide into 2 inch sections, and cover 
with salted water in a saucepan. Boil 40 minutes to 1 hour 
until tender. The skin may be left on, if it is well cleaned, 
and peeled after boiling. Serve with butter. This can be 
used in stews in place of potatoes. 

TARO PART BOILED AND BAKED. 

Cut skin from taro and boil in salted water 20 minutes. 
Take from water and place on pan in hot oven for l / 2 hour. 
Serve with butter and salt. 

BAKED TARO. 

Cut skin from taro, and if large, cut taro in half. Put in 
oven and bake for 1 hour. Break with the hands into in- 
dividual pieces and serve with butter and salt. 

FRIED TARO. 

Cut boiled taro into thin pieces. Sprinkle with salt, and 
fry in butter or lard. 

BAKED TARO CAKES. 

Mash hot boiled taro with a potato masher until free from 
lumps. Form into small cakes with the hands, using as 
little water as possible. Place in buttered pan, and bake y 2 
hour in hot oven. 

FRIED TARO CAKES. 

Make same as baked taro cakes ,and fry in butter or 
lard, or in deep fat. Drain and sprinkle with salt. For 
breakfast taro cakes, boil and mash taro night before. In 
morning moisten with water, and shape. 

PAIAI. 

Bake taro and .pound until free from lumps. Press and 
pack it. This will keep for months. 



54 

POI. 

Dilute paiai with water and expose to fermentation. Eat 
with salt fish, or as a porridge with sugar and milk. Also use 
to thicken gravy instead of flour. 

POI COCKTAIL. 

To a glass of milk add 2 tbsp poi. Stir this into the milk 
and sweeten if desired. This is served to invalids. 

LUAU. 

Take the young, tender leaves of the taro plant, and strip 
stems as with beans. Boil, changing water 3 times and 
adding pinch of soda. Cook until tender, 45 minutes in all. 
After last water, little milk may be added and salt and 
pepper. Mix well before .serving. Cut hard boiled egg in 
slices and lay on top. 

LUAU AND CHICKEN. 

Boil 3 bundles of luau as above. Stew a chicken, and when 
done, pour off the gravy and mix chicken with the luau. Grate 
2 coconuts and pour over the chicken as a gravy. Squid and 
luau is made in the same way. 

LUAU SOUP. 

Cook luau as above, using 1 bundle. Boil 1 qt. milk. Add 
2 tbsp butter and luau which has been pressed through a 
sieve. Stir and season with salt and pepper. 

TARO FLOWERS. 

Take out pistils from* flowers and strip strings from stems. 
Boil flowers and stems in water with pinch of soda, chang- 
ing water twice. Cook 45 minutes in all. Serve as a vege- 
table. These can be bought in small bundles at the market. 

TARO LEAF STALKS. 

Take stalks of taro plant which come on taro above the 
tuber. Scrape them and slice. Place in cold water for y 2 
hour, then put into salted boiling water with pinch of soda, 
and cook until tender. Pour off water. Season with salt 
and pepper, and serve on buttered toast with little white 
sauce. 



55 



TAMARIND 

The tamarind contains a laxative and cooling quality which 
makes it of value in cases of illness. 

TAMARIND DRINK. 

1 Shell tamarinds, and cover with water. Let soak several 
hours; then take the water from tamarinds, dilute with 
fresh water, and sweeten to taste. ■ 

2 To make drink quickly. Place 10 or 12 shelled tama- 
rinds in a 2 qt. pitcher filled with water. Stir well, and add 
sugar to taste. 

TAMARINDS PRESERVED. 

1 Shell tamarinds. Place layer in jar, and cover with 
su^ar. Repeat until jar is filled; then seal. Use candy 
boxes in same way, placing paraffin paper between layers 

of tamarinds. , 

2 Shell tamarinds and press tightly together in form ot 
bali. Cover with cloth. An easy way to carry them in 
traveling, in which they will keep for years. 

3 Make syrup of equal measures sugar and water, boil 
tamarinds in this, and pour into jars to be kept for drinks. 

TAMARIND CHUTNEY. 

y 2 lb. tamarinds V* lb. dates 

V 2 lb. green ginger J4 lb. raisins 

y 2 lb. onions Va lb- chili peppers 
4 tbsp brown sugar 2 tbsp salt 

Pound all with vinegar, and rub through a sieve. Botth 
and seal. 



56 



WATERMELON 

Though the watermelon lacks food nutriment, still it is 
considered one of nature's purifiers. 

WATERMELON PRESERVED RIND. 

7 lbs. rind 2 lemons 

4 lbs. sugar 4 c water 

Prepare as for watermelon pickle. Cook until tender; then 
add sugar, and when thick, sliced and seeded lemons. Cook 
few minutes. 

WATERMELON PICKLE. 

To 12 lbs. rind use 7 pts. vinegar and 1 tsp alum to 1 qt. 
water. Pare off green part of rind of melon. Cut white 
part into strips and pour over boiling water in which alum 
has been dissolved. Leave over night. Drain and soak 
several hours in fresh water. Cook until tender ; then make 
syrup of equal parts sugar and vinegar seasoned with 1 
tsp cinnamon to y 2 tsp cloves tied in a bag. Drop melon 
in, and cook until tender. Skim out, and place in jars. Boil 
syrup down, and pour over melon. 

WATERMELON SHERBET. 

Take all red pulp from melon. Add lemon juice, and 
sweeten to taste. Freeze. When partly frozen, add the 
whipped White of 1 egg to each qt. of sherbet and finish 
freezing. It may be served in melon skin. 



57 



COMBINED FRUIT 

Many combinations of fruits may be served, according to 
the season and what one has on hand. In making a com- 
pote of fruit, cut all in small pieces and mix gently with a 
spoon. 

Or save all the juice in cutting. Place the firmer fruit 
at bottom of serving dish, then alternate layers, and on top 
pour the combined juices saved from cutting. It may be 
served in individual sherbet glasses. Ice before serving. 

FRUIT COMPOTE— 1. 

Pile minced bananas on a cored slice of slightly divided 
pineapple, and pour over them a tbsp sweetened orange 
juice. 

FRUIT COMPOTE— 2. 

Combine y 2 pineapple chopped fine, 6 sliced bananas, 6 
sliced oranges, 1 pt. strawberries, 1 lemon thinly sliced, and 
sugar to taste. 

Or combine the pineapple, bananas, and oranges with y 2 
grated coconut. 

FRUIT COMPOTE— 3. 

Combine 1 banana. 1 orange, y 2 c pineapple, y 2 c walnuts, 
12 chopped marshmallows. Just before serving beat the mix- 
ture through 1 c whipped, sweetened, and iced cream. Serve 
at once in sherbet glasses. 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Mash 4 bananas. Add 2 oranges, pulp and juice, and 1 tbsp 
lemon juice, and mix with % c powdered sugar. Soak y 
box gelatine in y c cold water 5 minutes and dissolve over 
boiling water. Add this to the fruit mixture and cool in ice 
waier. When it thickens, fold in 2 c whipped cream. Place 
on ice and serve cold. 

FRUIT JELLY. 

Slice 1 orange, 2 bananas, and 4 figs. Seed 6 dates and 
y 2 c grapes, and chop 16 almonds. Soak y 2 box gelatine in 
y 2 c cold water 5 minutes. Make a syrup of 1^ c boiling 



58 

water and 2 c sugar, and dissolve the gelatine in it. Strain 
and place in ice water. When it thickens, stir in the fruit. 
Place on ice, and serve with whipped cream. 

FRUIT SALAD— 1. 

Take fresh pineapple, papaya, and celery. Cut in small 
pieces, and add seeded grapes. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD— 2. 

Fill half a pomelo skin with minced bananas, pomelo, 
apples, and a very little pineapple. Put sliced or chopped 
walnuts on top, and cover with mayonnaise. 

FRUIT PUNCH— 1. 

Take juice of 3 lemons, 2 oranges, and 1 pomelo. Add 
1 qt. water, (part mineral water) and large slices of pine- 
apple. Sweeten and serve iced. 

FRUIT PUNCH— 2. 

1 c grenadine 1 c orange juice 

y 2 c lemon juice 1 c pineapple juice 

1 c strong tea 1 bottle maraschino cherries 

Sugar or sugar syrup 

Combine all, sweeten to taste, and add mineral water, if 
desired. 



Always On Hand 

All kinds of Fruit and jelly Strainers. Universal 
Fruit Choppers, 4 sizes. Jelly Moulds and Wood 
Mixing Spoons. Mason and Atlas Fruit Jars, 
Jelly Tumblers, etc, 
E. O. HALL & SON, Ltd. Household Dept. 



Y. S. CHUNG 

Cor. Alakea & Beretania Sts. 

Groceries and General Merchandise. 
Green and Dried Fruits. Cigars, 
Candies, Vegetables; and Cold Drinks. 



For The Kitchen 

We sell a superior quality of flavoring extracts and articles 
for everyday use in the kitchen. Especially do we recommend: 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS 
BAKING SODA 
CREAM OF TARTAR 
INDIAN CURRY POWDER 
SPICES 

They are guaranteed under the Pure Food and Drug Act. 

Benson, Smith & Co., Ltd. 

Fort & Hotel Sts., Honolulu 



FOR ECONOMY USE, 



The White Frost Sanitary 
Refrigerator - - - - - 



coyne furniture: co., Ltd. 

BISHOP ST HONOLULU. T. H. 



C. J. DAY C£, CO. 

TELEPHONE 1821 

For Nuts, Raisins, Oranges, 
Apples, Dates, Figs, Mince 
Meat, Boiled Cider, cac, (Sic. 

C. Q. YEE HOP ra. CO. 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BUTCHERS 

DEALERS IN 
Fresh and Cured Meats, SmoKed Tongue, Fresh 
Canned Oysters, Poultry, Game, Egg's, Cheese, 
Butter, Fresh, SmoKed and Salt Fish, Fruits and 
Vegetables, E,tc. 

N, KING STREET: HONOLULU, T. H. 
Market Telephone 18 51 Slaughterhouse Telephone 10(5 8 



THE POND DAIRY 



Certified MilK and Cream from all tested 

cows. 

The finest and most sanitary dairy in the 
Hawaiian Islands. 

TELEPHONE 2890 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 



\K 3 191! 



UBRA RY OF CONGRESS 




