
l:^^W.C*i^,^ii!.-ii.^ fijJsv' 



.•^t"^ "wr^^ •Vjf'^ 



^ 



r-S 



MJ. 



I:' \ ... 



^<H 





(! 



9JM' 






/ 



.1 




r 





'QiX-. 





7 /y<5 



Class. 

Book^ ' S ^ 2S 

Copyright N° J 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSm 



BRIDAL CHEF 



BRIDAL CHEF 



SUGGESTIONS AND 
I^RACTICAL RECIPES 



FOR THE^ 



\EW HOUSEKEEPER 



3HU HO MAq2" 



Saint Louis 

BRANDT & CORDES 

PIBLISHERS 

iqi I 



'SPAN OF LIFE' 



BRIDAL CHEF 



SUGGESTIONS AND 
PRACTICAL RECIPES 

— =^FOR THE - = 

NEW HOUSEKEEPER 



+ 



Saint Louis 

BRANDT & CORDES 

PUBLISHERS 

IQI I 



r nt'VKK.in lijl I 
All itiShtB (vwrviMl 






V 



CciA2sr,:ir)7 



THE BRIDAL CHEF 

This book is dedicated to the BRIDE, with full assurance that among all her 
possessions there will be none more useful, or ultimately more highly valued, 
since it will convey to her much that will guide and advise her in her new career 
as a housekeeper. She will find it to be a ready reference book, since it will contain 
a fund of valuable information, suggestions and rules, together with recipes culled 
from the most authentic sources. 




rnr 



) 



WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES 

riRST ----.. Cotton wedding. 
Second - - - . . Pgper wedding. 

Third ----._ Leather wedding. 

Fifth - - - . . Wooden wedding. 

Seventh - - - . . Woolen wedding. 

Tenth - - - _ _ Tin wedding. 

Twelfth ----- Silk wedding. 

Fifteenth - - . . Crystal wedding. 

Twentieth ----- China wedding. 

Twenty-fifth - - - _ Silver wedding. 

Fortieth ----- Ruby wedding. 

Fiftieth ----- Golden wedding. 

Seventy-fifth - - - - Diamond wedding. 





^ST 



5 



^ 



INTRODUCTORY' 

On the social stage there is no role that presents in its portra\al and rendition 
more unalloyed delight, or that calls for more artistic education and tact, than 
that of the housewife and coincident ly that of the hostess. There are of course 
many who aspire to the title, many who desire to enact the part of the star, but 
it is only occasionally that one meets a woman who can he called "gracious" in 
all that the term implies, who dispenses hci- hospitality with an ease and charm 
that not only excites our admiration, but stamps her as artistic in every sense 
of the word. 

We ha\-e asked many who ha\e won their laui"els as hostesses what contributed 
most to their success, what made their dinner invitations so eagerly sought lor 
and so highly prized; they one and all replied, "Good Things to Eat." 

The following pages will he devoted to the art of cooking and ser\-ing "Good 
Things to Eat," and to the recommendation of the very best material and ingre- 
dients to use in their preparation, as well as the best implements and utensils 
to be employed in the work. 

All the necessaries and luxuries making up the sum of good living having received 
consideration and special mention, you will lind that everything in this book 
has been selected on account of its general utility and as being best adapted to 
the use of the small family. 

In addition to the ample provision made for all the wants of the innei" man, 
special attention has been gi\en to all those things which contiibute to his personal 
comfort and bodily necessities. 

It is to the BRIDE, young and untried housekeeper that she is, that we appeal 
directly; no matter what her training may have been, she is now thrown upon 
her own resources. 

We shall hope to present to her in the following pages those things which tend 
to the best housekeeping and make of those duties rather a pleasure than a burden. 

The home itself is founded upon a divine institution, the wedded man and 
woman, to each of whom has been allotted a particular sphere. The man has 
his work and he circulates amongst his fellows at all times surrounded by the 
atmosphere of his home. His ideas of honor, his unselfishness, his ambitions, 
are largely the reflex of his home life. 

It is in the province of the woman to make of her home a spring of happiness, 
strengthening or accentuating its moral tone by her influence and good example. 
The home of the good housewife is a model of well-ordered excellence and beauty, 
it represents the highest development of domestic economy, it fosters and insists 
upon the nice obser\ance of all the proprieties of life. 



5 



X££t 




»: 



^ 



In the first home there will be ordinarily but two persons, the bride and her 
husband, hence, it should be an easy matter to systemize the work and apportion 
it to the hours; having done that once, there should ne\'er be any dex'iation, except 
for good and sufficient reason. 

Up to within the past few years household economy received but little con- 
sideration, notwithstanding it had its beginning at the "dawn of human history" 
and is now an exact science. 

Economy does not mean spending a small amount, but getting the largest 
returns from the money expended; money is not the only thing which must be 
judiciously handled in the economy of the home; time is equally as \aluable. 
and how few persons appreciate the value of time. 

We hear many complain of having worked hard all day and having accomplished 
nothing and that they are completely worn out. That is the result, generally, 
of lack of order and system; if you are familiar with your duties it is easy to appor- 
tion your time and as you become more familiar with the routine of your duties, 
before you know it you are saving time. 

The wise housewife divides her time, even as the twenty-four-inch gauge is 
divided; thus, she has a time for everything, a place for everything and everything 
in its place; the result is order, system and economy. 

She assigns certain hours for meals and she requires they be conformed to, 
otherwise the routine of the house would be interfered with; confusion would 
result, to say nothing of the food being overcooked or served cold, than which 
nothing tends more quickly to discourage the housekeeper. 

In the beginning do not make the common error of attempting too much; it 
is better to do a little at a time and do that little well. Experience must teach 
you how to best arrange all those things needed in your housekeeping, so that 
you will be required to take the fewest number of steps. Order will add home 
comfort and beauty to your establishment and sweeten your daily life. 

See that your kitchen fire be bright. 

And your hands be neat and skilled; 
For the love of man oft takes to flight 

If his stomach be not well filled. 

Every housekeeper has learned to her cost that there are two kinds of recipes, 
the practical and the theoretical. In this book will be found the practical, those 
that have been tried, tested and that will work out. 





i^>^^-. 




12 





SUGGESTIONS 

The furnishings of the home should, in a measure, conform to the character of the 
house itself. It should not be over-furnished, for in that case it evinces bad taste 
and shows extravagance. 

Too often when it comes to furnishing the home, the useful is sacrificed to the 
aesthetic or the ornamental; the kitchen, the most important room in the house, 
being neglected or treated in a perfunctory manner. 

In \isiting a house, apartments or rooms, with a view to leasing or renting them, 
probabK' the fii'st thing critically examined by the housekeeper is the kitchen; 
first as to its size, then as to its surroundings relative to the other rooms in the 
house and, finalh', as to its arrangement. 

The kitchen should be beautiful in its cleanliness and in its perfect arrangements. 
There should be as much light as possible. Wall anci floor coverings should 
harmonize, and it is even possible to include the common utensils in a color scheme 
for the reason that they can be purchased in a great variety ot shades. 

The dining room can be made to fill the purpose of li\ing or sitting room, if need 
be; but it should be fitted with the necessary table and chairs. It should have a 
side-board or buffet, china closet and. if possible, a linen closet wherein may be 
stored all the table linen. 

Coming back to the kitchen and to the actual needs of that apartment, we w ill 
say primarily that those needs should be governed by your means, since the longer 
the purse the more elaborate and fully equipped can be the kitchen; however, 
for daily use, certain articles and a certain number of them, w ill be found sufficient 
for any housekeeper. The greater the number of culinary- utensils, the greater 
the labor and care entailed. This should be avoided as much as possible, partic- 
ularly when one must do the work oneself. 

THE NEW HOUSEKEEPER SHOULD 

First of all, select a good coal or gas range. Let it not be too large, but above all, 
buy the best make. If a gas range be beyond your means there are gas stoves, 
such as are used for ironing purposes, which may be bought very reasonably, and 
with them can be used a portable o\en. This same oven can also be used with 
the two or more burner gasoline or alcohol sto\es, where gas is not to be had. 

Be careful to buy utensils of a size small enough, e.xcept those to be used in case 
of company, when the overfilling or use of too many small dishes is often annoying 
and confusing to the beginner. One should have for daily use one small coffee 
pot, one earthen teapot, one large water kettle with spout, two or three sma 
pots with coN'ers for vegetables, two small skillets and covers, one cake griddle 




^ 



XX 




rnr 



and two small roasting pans. Add to these one large coffee pot, two large pots 
with covers, one large skillet and one large roasting pan. a set of muffin rings, 
two large and two smaller sized pie pans, two jelly moulds and one cake pan. six 
graniteware pans ranging from one large to two medium and three small sizes, one 
medium and one small sized earthenware crock. 

A kitchen table, a kitchen closet or cabinet, two kitchen chairs, one dish pan, 
one soap holder, se\'eral plain water glasses, a flour bin. a flour sieve, a bread or 
cake box, a baking board, a bread board (on which to slice bread), a scale, a coffee 
grinder, a meat grinder and a small meat saw, a roller towel holder and a dish 
towel holder, a spice cabinet, a lemon squeezer, an ice pick, a potato masher, a 
rolling pin. a can opener, a cork screw, a soup and tea strainer, a fruit press, a 
funnel, one graduated quart measure, two egg beaters, two graters (a large and a 
small one), half dozen each kitchen tablespoons and teaspoons, two large cooking 
spoons, one cake turner, one ladle, one spatula, one carving or butcher knife, two 
small steel paring knives and a knife sharpener, one large and one small fork, 
two jars for drippings, one lard crock, one covered butter crock, shakers for pow- 
dered sugar, salt and pepper, also a tea and a coffee can with close fitting lids. 

As tin cans or earthen jars labeled for sugar, coffee, tea and all cereals and 
spices can be had in so many sizes, there should be no reason for keeping anything 
in paper bags; enough warning cannot be given a beginner to avoid having any 
articles lying around, because they will not only deteriorate, but will draw roaches, 
mice and ants. 

Dust pan and brush, broom, scrub brush and bucket must also be added, although 
these do not properly belong to the kitchen. Many, many more things may and 
perhaps must be added as the need arises; these are only a foundation, yet it is 
far wiser to make the every-day utensils serve many purposes, than to overstock 
your kitchen with things that you will only use once in a while. 

Ne.xt buy a good ice box of the best standard make. The mistake is often 
made by choosing a small box with a view to saving ice. Unless of the best 
standard make, the very small boxes are always more cheaply made and poorly 
lined, and therefore melt the ice more rapidly. The more modern flats and apart- 
ments are usually furnished with ice boxes and ranges, whereby quite an item is 
saved, but the average three and four-room apartments, renting for more moderate 
sums, still require that the tenent furnish them. 

When laying in supplies, beginners will find it pays to buy a little larger quantities, 
especially of the so-called dry articles, such as sugar, coffee, flour, etc. Not only 
does one buy more cheaply as a rule, but one avoids that pernicious habit of being 
out of things when needed. Watch your supplies so the>' do not get too low; 
rather buy a little too much and have it on hand, than need a thing badly just as 
vou are about to cook a dish. 



^SSk, 



rnr 



^ 



Flour by the small sack, sugar by the ten-pound package, coffee, tea, etc., by 
the pound. Dried fruits, beans, macaroni, rice, barley, sago, tapioca, etc., keep 
for a long time, especially if kept in a dry, cool place. It is a good plan to always 
keep on hand several cans of peas, corn, tomatoes, salmon and fruit, so that in 
case of emergency or extra company- \ ou will be prepared. Soap and soap powders 
can be kept a long while, soap especiall\- drying out and improving w ith age. 

Meats had better be bought in small quantities, unless the left-overs can be 
planned into tasty dishes for immediate use. 

Butter and lard can be bought in i and 2 pound quantities, if kept in tightly 
closed receptacles; but if not properly kept they quickly absorb odors and become 
strong. If one has the room it is economical to buy potatoes by the bushel and 
apples by the peck. 




5 



xssi. 



f 



•}■ 



4- 






f 



fas' ' 



?»S*CJK^ 



^• 



-f 







x>c 



kfdstjnisliGS 





TO BAKE GRIDDLE CAKES, ETC 

All griddle cakes require a hot griddle or pan and very little fat to grease with. 
They should he dropped by the spoonful, and when puffed full of bubbles and 
browned on edges, should be turned and baked on other side. 

PLAIN GRIDDLE CAKES 

Sift together i cup flour, i heaping teaspoon of baking powder and '2 teaspoon 
salt, add milk enough to make a thin hatter, then acid beaten yolk of 1 egg and 
lastly the beaten white of same. 
Bake as directed. 

SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mix I cup sour milk, i egg yolk. '2 teaspoon baking soda, l-i teaspoon salt and i 
tablespoon syrup. Beat all until light and foamy, then add H to i cup of flour. 
Add beaten white of the egg last, mixing lightly. Have skillet hot and bake until 
brown and thoroughh' done. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

Soak I cup fine stale bread crumbs in 1J2 cups of scalded milk until crumbs are 
soft, add I rounding teaspoon melted butter, beaten yolk of i egg; next add, sifted 
together, 1 cup flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder and i teaspoon salt. 
Lastly add beaten white of the egg and mix all lightly. 
Bake same as other griddle cakes. 

SUGAR CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

To I cup corn (cut from cob) add '2 cup milk, i teaspoon salt and i beaten egg; 
then add. sifted together, i heaping teaspoon baking powder and i cup flour. 
Mix well and bake as directed. 



»Z 





»z 




BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

In the evening sift together 'o cup wheat flour and 2 cups buckwheat flour, 
add '4 cake compressed yeast dissolved in i cup kikewarm milk and i teaspoon 
salt; let it rise in a warm place. Next morning should it taste sour, beat '2 tea- 
spoon of soda in it; if not sour do not add soda. Beat, and if batter is too thick 
thin with w-arm milk. Bake same as griddle cakes. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES— In Haste 

Sift together ' 2 cup wheat flour, 2 cups buckwheat flour and i heaping teaspoon 
baking powder and make batter with water or half milk, add 1 teaspoon salt. 
Bake same as griddle cakes. 

WAFFLES 

Sift together 1 cup flour, i heaping teaspoon baking powder and ij teaspoon salt; 
add gradually i cup milk, rounding tablespoon melted butter, the beaten yolk of 
I egg, mi.x thoroughl\-. Lastly add the stiffly beaten white of the egg, then mix 
lightly. Pour into well greased hot waffle irons and turn quickly. 



RICE WAFFLES 

Sift together '-i cup flour, i heaping teaspoon baking powder and li teaspoon 
salt, then work in 1 cup of cold boiled rice with the fingers; add gradually i cup 
milk, the beaten yolk of i egg and i tablespoon melted butter, mix thoroughly; 
then lastly, add the stiffly beaten white of the egg and mix lightly. 
Bake same as plain waffles. 

BUTTERMILK WAFFLES 

Make a batter of i cup flour and i cup buttermilk and add 1 rounding tablespoon 
butter, melted, 1 egg well beaten, '■, teaspoon salt and i teaspoon baking soda 
dissolved in a little warm water. Make batter thin as for other waffles; when 
buttermilk waffles are to be made as batter cakes have batter just thin enough to 
run off the spoon. 

CORN BREAD OR CORN MUFFINS 

Beat 1 cup sour milk, i egg yolk, 1-2 teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in a little 
lukewarm water, ^2 teaspoon salt, i tablespoon syrup or sugar, all together until 
ight, then add i cup corn meal, i tablespoon flour and lastly the beaten white of 
the egg. Bake in a shallow pan or muffin rings, well greased. 




^ 




'^,r^ ____ ""-"~^" , ^^^^^^^ if 



7- 



n 






I rN U!t3 



i 



GRAHAM MUFFINS 

Mix well I cup graham flour, i cup white flour, I4 cup sugar, 2 heaping teaspoons 
of baking powder, i teaspoon salt, then add i cup milk, i beaten egg and i table- 
spoon melted butter. Mi.x well and bake in moderate oven in muffin pans about 
25 minutes. 



PLAIN MUFFINS 

Silt togethei' 1 cup floui", i heaping teaspoon baking powder, '2 teaspoon salt and 
1 tablespoon sugar, then add i cup milk, 1 beaten egg and i tablespoon melted 
butter. 

Mix well and bake in moderate oven in muffin rings. 



CREAM MUFFINS 

Sift together i cup of flour, i heaping teaspoon baking powder and '2 teaspoon 
salt, then add i cup cream, i beaten egg yolk, i tablespoon butter, and last add 
the stiffly beaten white of the egg. Bake quickl\- in muffin pans. 



BISCUITS 

Sift 2 cups of flour, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder and ' 2 teaspoon salt, mix 
with this I rounding tablespoon lard. Then add enough milk to make a soft 
dough, beat a minute with a fork, roll out one-half inch thick on floured board 
and cut. Bake in a hot oven about ten minutes. 



APPLE FRITTERS 

Sift together i cup flour, i level teaspoon baking powder and i teaspoon sugar, 
mix with '2 cup milk, add the beaten yolk of i egg then the beaten white of the 
egg. Chop one large apple fine and add just before frying. Fry in butter and 
lard and serve with sugar or maple syrup. 



RICE CAKES 

Soften I cup boiled rice with milk, add i rounding tablespoon butter, i egg well 
beaten and H cup flour, sifted with '2 teaspoon salt; drop with a spoon into hot 
lard and fry light brown on both sides. Very nice served with butter and sugar. 



^ ^^ 



TEST 



GERMAN EGG PANCAKES 

Sift together i cup flour, i tablespoon sugar and 3-2 teaspoon salt, then add i cup 
milk, beaten yolks of 2 eggs and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs and 
mix all until smooth. 

Bake same as griddle cakes. Serve with sugar and cinnamon, maple syrup or 
stewed and sweetened fruit. 



GERMAN POTATO PANCAKE 

Grate 2 cups rau' potatoes, drain off water that comes with grating, add 2 eggs, 
beaten together and i teaspoon salt, sifted with 'o cup flour. 

Must be lightly mixed. Fry slowly in well greased pan and brown on each side. 



EGGS 

FRIED EGGS 

Melt some butter in frying pan, when hot drop in the eggs carefully. Fry three 
minutes, dust with pepper and salt. 

ESCALLOPED EGGS 

Make a force-meat of chopped or ground ham, bread crumbs, pepper, salt and a 
little pai'sley, i tablespoon melted butter and milk enough to make a soft paste; 
half fill patty pans with the mixture. Break an egg carefully upon the top of 
each, sprinkle with a little salt, pepper and cracker dust. Put in o\'en and bake 
ten minutes. 

DEVILED EGGS 

Boil 4 eggs hai'd, then cut them lengthwise. Take out the \olks and mash them, 
season with salt, pepper and celery salt, then add i teaspoon butter, i teaspoon 
prepared mustard, enough vinegar to make mixture stick together. 
Put back in the whites and serve cold. 

CREAMED EGGS 

Boil 5 eggs hard, remove shells, put into a deep dish and cover with a drawn sauce 
made of i cup milk, i tablespoon butter, i teaspoon cornstarch and a little salt. 
A very nice dish and easily prepared. 



^SSt. 




27 




»: 




SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Put a tablespoon ot butter in the frying pan. when hot drop in 4 eggs, which have 
been beaten in a bowl, add a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt; stir for 3 
minutes, turn in a hot dish. Serve immediately. 



SCR.AMBLED EGGS No. 2 

Mi.x I rounding tablespoon flour, '2 cup milk and i teaspoon salt until smooth. 
then add 3 eggs, beaten lightly. Have bacon drippings or butter in pan slightly 
brown, turn in egg mixture and fold until all is cooked. Bacon cut fine and fried, 
then folded in with the eggs as they cook makes a pleasant change. 



SCOTCH EGGS 

Boil 4 eggs hard and remove shells. Make a savory force-meat of finely ground 
ham or bacon and parsley or thyme, have force-meat a thick paste with which coat 
the eggs, then dip in beaten raw eggs and roll in fine bread crumbs. 

Fry to a golden brown color and serve plain or with tomato sauce or with gravy. 

OMELET 

Mi.x together the beaten yolks of 4 eggs, i teaspoon salt. 3 tablespoons milk, i 
teaspoon butter and i teaspoon bacon drippings; lastly add the very stiffly beaten 
whites. Have the pan hot. put in the butter and bacon drippings. Bake until 
the eggs begin to thicken, then place on the grate in the oven or under o\en burner 
until set. Run the knife around between the omelet and the pan. fold and serve 
on a hot dish. 

OMELET No. 2 

Mix 2 tablespoons flour, 3 egg yolks, i cup of milk, and 1 teaspoon salt, add stiffly 
beaten whites of the 3 eggs last. Fry in butter and lard until brown on one side, 
then either brown other side under broiler flame or dump into another pan. Serve 
with jelly. 

Either minced ham, bacon, mushrooms or parsley may be added for a change. 

EGGS ON TOAST 

Put small piece of butter in frying pan. when hot stir in 3 well beaten eggs, season 
with pepper and salt. Stir 3 minutes, have ready some slices of toasted bread, 
spread with minced ham or chicken. Heap the eggs upon these in mounds; 
garnish with parsley. 




»z 





>:< 



^ 



POACHED EGGS 

Put 1 cup water in fr\ing pan and i tablespoon milk, when the water hoils, break 
the eggs separately into a saucer. Take the pan off and slip the eggs, one by one, 
carefully upon the surface. When all are in, put back over the fire and boil gently 
for 3 minutes. Take out with skimmer, garnish with parsley and dust with salt 
and pepper. 

STUFFED EGGS 

RemoN'e the shell from cold hard boiled eggs, cut in two, remove yolks, chop and 
mix with them cold chicken oi- any tender meat (some add a little minced onion 
or parsley and a few bread crumbs), season and add gravy or the uncooked yolk 
of a beaten egg; fill the cavities level, fasten the halves together with wooden 
toothpicks, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs; fr\' until slightly brown. Nice 
with celery or tomato sauce. 

STUFFED EGGS No. 2 

Cut hard boiled eggs in half, mash the yolks smooth and add an equal bulk of 
deviled ham or other potted meat, season further if desired with a few drops of 
lemon juice and mustard or mustard ma\onnaise. Shape in balls and fill the 
centers of the egg again and press together, or place a ball, the size of the yolk, 
in each half of the white. These may be served as a salad. 

EGG TOAST 

Beat an egg until light, add a pinch of salt and i tablespoon sugar, then add ^^ cup 
milk and mi.x well. Dip slices of bread in this, fry in butter and lard until a golden 
brown, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon; serve with stewed fruit. 




CEREALS 




The reason for the extensive use of cereal foods is not hard to find; they contain 
large proportions of the necessary food ingredients with a very small proportion 
of refuse. They are also readily prepared for the table, and are palatable and 
easily digested. 

There are a great variety of ready-to-eat cereals, very convenient, wholesome 
and economical. 

As a diet, cereal foods are of much value for young children, also for the aged. 
When properly cooked they are soft and easily taken care of in the digestive tract; 
they are preferable to more hearty foods and their use is certainly rational. 



XX 




29 



TSST 



In in\-alid dietetics cereal foods are, we might say, indispensable. The standard 
flours, meals and the modern prepared breakfast and special cereal foods all find 
their place, either when cooked in ordinary ways or prepared as gruels or other 
special dishes. 

All things considered, cereal foods as a class are nutritious, convenient, economical 
and worthy of an important place in the dietary scheme when judiciously combined 
with other foods. 



TIME TABLE FOR COOKING 



J 





Cups of 
Cereal 


Cups of 
Water 


Teaspoons 
of Salt 


Time Required 
in Cooking 


Rolled Oats 

Rolled Wheat 




2}i 
2 

4 

4^ 

4^ 

3 

3 

8 

8 


I 

i^ 
1V2 
2 

132 

I 
1 


45 minutes. 
45 minutes. 


Cracked Wheat 


4IQ hours. 


Oat Meal 


4 hours. 


Hominy, fine 

Corn Meal Mush 


I, '2 hours. 
30 minutes. 


Rice, steamed 

Rice, boiled 

Macaroni 


45 minutes. 
35 minutes. 
30 minutes, 



Rice must be soaked over night, to cook in time above stated. 



5 



RICE 

Steam or boil i cup rice, and when clone add i or i '2 cups of scalded milk, 2 table- 
spoons butter and i teaspoon sugar. Let it boil slowly about 10 minutes, then 
serve with stewed or sweetened berries or fruit or even fruit juice. It may also be 
served with cream or }4 cup sugar and '2 teaspoon ground cinnamon mixed and 
sprinkled over. 




t^ 



XSSL 



■csr 



5 



lim 




^ 



^?5, 



mM.^ /n 



mm 








Soups are not onl\' nourishing but are useful as stimulants. They help to create 
appetite and start the digestive juices preparatory to receiving and digesting the 
solid foods. As an economical matter, soup is a rare vehicle for disposing of many 
of the lett-overs both in meat and vegetables. Soups are rendered more nutritious 
by the addition of vegetables and small cubes of meat. In cold weather the thick 
soups should be given the preference, but in the spring and early summer, vegetable 
soups should dominate. 

All meats for soup, whether brisket, neck, joints or bone, should first be washed, 
then trimmed if too fat, put in cold water and allowed to stand about 15 minutes; 
then bring to a boil, add salt, skim and allow to cook slowly for at least 2 hours, 
then vegetables and seasonings may be added and allowed >j to -'4 hour longer 
boiling. Strain if only a clear broth is wanted, else mash vegetables through 
strainer when done, and if a thicker soup is wanted, add noodles, dumplings, rice, etc. 

Clear broth will keep quite a while if kept in a cool place and forms the foun- 
dation for many other soups. 

CREAM CELERY' SOUP 

Put 2 coarse stalks of celery (washed and cut in pieces) in 2 cups milk, boil slowly 
for 14 hour, put through strainer and add 1 rounding tablespoon butter; thicken 
this with I heaping tablespoon floui- moistened with water, then add i^, teaspoon 
salt, let come to a boil, adding dash of red pepper. Salt added before flour will 
cause milk to curdle. 

CREAM ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Same recipe as for celery soup, using lower ends of 3 stalks of asparagus instead 
of the celery. 

CREAM OUSTER PLANT SOUP 
Same recipe as foi' celery soup, using 3 oyster plants instead of celery. 



5 



XSSli 



f 



4* 

m 



■i- 



-i~ 



-5- 



-> 






J). 






^•ffi 




>c< 



CREAM TOMATO SOUP 

Boil 2 large tomatoes with a pinch of baking soda for 1 5 minutes or until soft, 
then strain. Boil i cup milk, 1 rounding tablespoon butter and thicken with i 
rounding tablespoon flour moistened with water, season with '2 teaspoon salt 
and a dash of red pepper. 

Then add boiled and strained tomatoes and let all come to a boil. 

CUSTARD SOUP 

Boil 1I2 cups milk, 1 tablespoons sugar, pinch of salt, and i inch stick of cinnamon. 
Separate an egg and add a little of the hot milk to the yolk and beat, gradually 
adding that in turn to the rest of the milk, taking care not to have the egg curdle. 
Beat white stifl with a pinch of salt and heap on a piece of zwieback (baker's 
toast). Pour boiling mixture on this and ser\e. 

FRUIT SAGO SOUP 

Wash and boil '2 cup sago in i quart water, add i^ teaspoon salt. 2 slices lemon. 

2 each whole cloves and allspice. 

When sago appears done and glassy, add ' 2 cup claret wine or grape or blackberry 
juice and sugar enough to sweeten. This is also served ice cold in summer. Serve 
with croutons. 

MILK SAGO SOUP 

Boil ^2 cup sago in i cup milk and i cup broth, season with salt and M teaspoon 
butter. Serve hot. 

BEAN SOUP 

Soak I cup of navy beans in cold water over night. Then cook slowly for about 

3 hours, until soft. When tender, mash beans through a strainer, adding 2 cups 
broth, I small onion, 2 slices bacon, several pieces of coarse celery stalk, cut fine, 
dash of pepper, i tablespoon good catsup and i potato cut in dice; salt to suit 
taste. 

Let this boil until potatoes are done, but care must be taken that it does not 
burn, as the beans will settle and stick easily. 

DRIED PEA SOUP 
Use dried green peas instead of beans. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 
Use split peas instead of beans, adding I4 cup milk when soup is nearly done. 





xx 





2« 



GERMAN NOODLES— For Soup 

Mix I egg, I tablespoon water, i tablespoon vinegar and i teaspoon salt, beat 
until well mi.xed then add enough flour so that in kneading it will not stick to hands. 
Roll out \ery thin, cut fine and allow to dry before using. Add to the soup and 
boil till noodles are done, about 15 minutes. 

DUMPIJNGS 

Mix '2 cup milk, '4 teaspoon salt, Ki teaspoon nutmeg and i rounding tablespoon 
butter; let come to a boil; then add '2 cup sifted flour and work with spoon over a 
low fire until all is smooth. 

Remove pan from fire and add i egg yolk, working with spoon Lintil mixture is 
smooth. Beat the white of egg ancl add last, then work again. 

Drop by spoonfuls in soup, boil i 5 minutes and serve. Good in pea soup. 

MARROW DUMPLINGS 

Melt marrow of soup bone, about '3 cup. Soak > 2 cup bread in water and wring 
dry, add this to marrow, mix and steam over slow fire, adding '2 teaspoon salt, 
I4 teaspoon nutmeg, 2 tablespoons rolled cracker or roasted bread crumbs and 
yolk of I egg; let this cool, then add stiffly beaten white of egg. Mix all thoroughly, 
roll into tiny balls, drop in soup, boil about 15 minutes and serve. 






»: 




^ 



37 



WF^ 



"■^^^m. 



m^ 



Tssr 




vr;;,i? ^ 



5 



In the economy of the househokl, fish plays an important part; and has come to 
be regarded as a \ery \aluable food material, whether taken from the salt seas or 
from the fresh waters of the lakes or rivers, 

kish as a food is cheaper than meat; it is not quite so nourishing, but is usually 
easier of digestion. Fish are either white, or dark and oily in appearance. Dark 
fish have the oil distributed throughout the body, making the flesh dark colored, 
such as salmon, bluefish, mackerel and herring; white fish, like cod, haddock, 
trout, smelt or perch, have the fat secreted in the liver. 

Fish should not be eaten unless fresh, otherwise it is poisonous. When purchas- 
ing always choose fish that are in season. To determine freshness, examine the 
flesh, it should be firm, the eyes and gills should be bright. On account of its 
strong odor it should not be put in the ice Ito.x unless closely covered or wrapped. 

COD is one of the most prolific of the salt water fish ; on this account, and because 
of its cheapness and easy procurability, it forms from an economical standpoint 
one of the most important of fish foods. Large cod are cut in steaks. The skin 
of cod is white, heavily mottled w ith gray, and has a white line running the entire 
length of the fish on either side. Cod is in season the entire year. Those with 
small heads and thick necks are the best. 

HADDOCK is closely allied to codfish though it is smaller and differently 
mottled. The distinguishing mark of haddock is a black line running the entire 
length of fish on either side. Like cod, it is cheap and in season all the year, but 
is best in October. Haddock when dried, smoked and salted is known as Finnan 
Haddie. 

HALIBUT is the largest of the flat fish family, the skin on the under side 
being white, on the upper light or dark gray. Halibut is in season all the year. 

TURBOT is the finest of salt water fish, similar to Halibut, but smaller and of 
more delicate flavor. lurbot is in season from January until March. 

SMELTS are small salt water fish and are sold by the pound. In season from 
July until February. 



E^ 



£Ji. 



40 



■dT 



FRESH WATER FISH 

TROUT vary in size and skin coloring. Lake trout are largest. 

SALK40N TROUT is the name applied to trout caught in the Great Lakes. 

BROOK TROUT are caught in brooks and small lakes; they are superior 
eating, but expensive. Trout is in season from April until August. 

WHITE FISH is the finest fish found in the Great Lakes. 

SALMON is both a fresh and salt water fish, of pinkish orange color and weighing 
from 15 to 21 pounds. They are in season from May to September. 

SHAD is a fresh and a salt water fish. It has a silvery hue which becomes 
bluish upon the back, jack Shad are cheaper than Roe Shad. l"he>- are in 
season from Januaiy to June. 

CAVIAR is the salted roe of the sturgeon caught in Russia. 

HERRING is usually smoked and salted. 



5 



TO CLEAN FISH 

Fish are usually cleaned at the market, but should be gone over carefully before 
cooking. Scrape any scales which have not been taken off, by drawing a knife 
over the fish from tail towards the head. Wash fish or wipe carefully, with cloth 
wrung out in cold water; remove any clotted blood adhering to backbone. 



5 



TO BROIL FISH 

Clean the fish thoroughly and wipe dry. Slices of large fish may be broiled; small 
fish should be split down the back and broiled whole. Place the slices or split 
fish in a well greased broiler; first broil the flesh side then the skin side, turning 
often. When broiled, dot with butter and season with salt and pepper before 
serving. 

The more oily fish, those with dark llesh, are used for broiling; when the drier 
varieties are used, they should when broiled be spread with butter sprinkled with 
lemon juice and well seasoned before serving. 

Among the most delicate fish for broiling are lake or salmon trout and white fish, 
which are fresh water fish from the Great Lakes, in season during the winter. 
Salmon, blue fish. shad, fresh mackerel, butter fish, sea trout, halibut, cod and 
salmon steak are good for broiling. 



XI21. 



m 



4* 

m 



<- 



-i- 



•5- 



-y 






i 







x>c 




TO FR^' FISH 

Large fish are sliced; if small, split down the back and fry whole. Clean the fish 
thoroughly and wipe dry. Dip in well-beaten yolk of egg. then fine bread crumbs, 
flour or corn meal; pat the crumbs or meal on well so that same does not fall off 
and burn in the fat. To make e.xtra nice, dip into the egg and bread crumbs or 
meal a second time before frying. Fry to a golden brown color in boiling lard, 
remove, drain well and serve hot. 

Small fish, like brook trout, smelts, perch, pickerel, crappie and bass, are usually 
fried whole or split, while cod. halibut, haddock, flounders, sole, etc., are cut in 
slices, steaks or fillets w hen fried. 

TO BAKE FISH 

Clean the fish thoroughly and wipe dry. If it is to be stuffed, prepare the stuffing, 
place it in the fish and sew shut with a white thread. Lay it in a well-greased pan, 
dredge with flour and dot with drippings or bacon fat. If the o\'en is very hot, 
cover the fish with a greased paper (cut to fit the pan) during the first part of the 
baking to pre\ent scorching; baste frequently; if there is not enough fat in the pan. 
add more; unless well basted the fish will be dry. 

If the pan be first well greased and then a sheet of greased brown paper put in, 
on which the fish is laid, the fish will not stick to the pan, it can be more easily 
removed to the platter and the pan more readily cleaned. 

The best fish to bake are white fish, bass, pickerel, pike, red snapper, shad, etc., 
all having white flesh. They should be basted often; a stuffing also serves to keep 
the fish moist as well as to season it. 

TO BOIL FISH 

Have the water just below the boiling point; if water is boiling the skin will crack. 
Select small firm fish, or a firm slice of a large one, clean thoroughly and wrap in a 
thin, coarse cloth, tying the ends. Small fish are usually boiled with heads left 
on, but the eyes removed. The average time required for boiling is b minutes 
per pound, unless the fish be very thick; then it usually requires about lo minutes 
per pound. If a regular fish kettle with drainer is not used, a plate may be placed 
in the pan and the fish laid upon it; this will prevent the fish sticking and will make 
it easier to remove same when cooked. A little salt in the water will add to the 
flavor and a tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice will keep the flesh white and firm. 

Fish should be boiled thoroughly until done; if not done they are very unwhole- 
some. 

The fish usually boiled are cod, haddock, halibut, salmon and fresh or salted 
mackerel. 




i^^^>i- 





>c< 







BOILED SALT MACKEREL 

Soak a salted mackerel all night. Scrape the skin off and put in skillet w ith fresh 
water enough to cover, boil lo minutes. Place on platter and pour over it 3 
rounding tablespoons butter, which has been browned. Serve hot. Baked or 
boiled potatoes are very nice with this. 

HALIBUT AND TON'IATO SAUCE 

Cook for 20 minutes 2 cups of tomatoes, i cup water, i sliced onion, i teaspoon 
salt, dash of pepper, ? cloves and i tablespoon sugar; add to this 3 tablespoons 
butter and 3 tablespoons flour moistened with a little water and stir until smooth, 
then cook all ten minutes and strain. 

Clean the fish, put in baking pan, pour around it half of the tomato sauce, bake 
35 minutes, basting often; remove to hot platter and pour around it the remaining 
sauce. 

BAKED FRESH MACKEREL 

Clean the mackerel, put in buttered dripping pan, sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
dot with butter, lay one or two strips of ham fat over fish, then poui' over it 23 cup 
milk. Bake 25 minutes in hot oven. 

BAKED HADDOCK WITH STUFFING 

Clean haddock, sprinkle inside and out with salt, stuff with fish stuffing and sew. 
Place in buttered pan, lay strips of ham fat or salt pork over fish and i or 2 pieces 
in pan. Dot with a few pieces of butter and dredge with flour. Bake one hour 
in hot oven, basting often. 

Serve with drawn butter, egg or hollandaise sauce. 



*-e>et 




BAKED RED SNAPPER WITH OYSTER STUFFING 

Mix well Vi pint oysters, i cup cracker crumbs rolled fine, '4 cup butter, melted, 
?4 teaspoon salt, Js teaspoon pepper, •« teaspoon lemon juice and i beaten egg. 
Clean and dry a 3-pound led snapper, fill with stuffing and sew up. Place in 
buttered dripping pan, dredge with Hour, dot with butter and bacon drippings or 
strips of salt pork and bake. Serve with hollandaise or tomato sauce. 

SALMON CUTLETS 

Dip cutlets in cracker crumbs and flour, then in beaten egg and then in cracker 
crumbs again. Heat 1 tablespoon butter and i tablespoon lard in a skillet and 
fry cutlets to a golden brown on both sides. 

Then remove to platter and squeeze a few drops of lemon juice on each cutlet. 
Serve with mustard sauce. 



"XX 




^ST 



BOILED RED SNAPPER WITH 0^'STER SAUCE 

Clean fish and hoil. When done remove to a platter, pour over it the following 
sauce: Blend J.^ cup of butter and i rounding tablespoon flour until smooth, 
then add ^4 cup of milk and boil until \ery thick. Season with '2 teaspoon salt, 
's teaspoon red pepper, 1 tablespoon lemon juice and add beaten yolk of i egg. 
Heat i-j pint of oysters in their own juice until the edges curl up, but do not boil; 
then add this to the other mi.xture and let it come to a boil, being careful to stir 
all the time or else it will curdle. 



5 



SALMON CROQUETTES— Canned Salmon 

Blend 34 cup butter and i rounding tablespoon flour until smooth, add i^ cup of 
milk and let it come to a boil, then add liquid of one can salmon, i tablespoon 
lemon juice, i teaspoon onion juice, ' 2 teaspoon red pepper and i egg (though the 
egg is not really necessary, only making the mi.xture richer). Let this come to a 
boil and simmer until it is a thick paste, then add the can of salmon, flaked, mi.x 
thoroughly and steam all from 3 to 5 minutes. Remo\e from fire, let it cool a 
little, then dip the hands in water and mold into croquettes or oblong pieces. 
If the mixture is too soft to mold nicely, mix cracker crumbs with it. Dip in 
cracker crumbs, then in beaten egg. then back in crumbs and fry. 



SALMON SALAD— Canned Salmon 

Flake i can salmon after pouring off all liquid; then add ^4 cup sour pickles cut 
fine. 1 cup celery and 3 hard boiled eggs chopped. Mix and serve with mustard 
mayonnaise sauce. 



SALMON IN GELATINE— Canned Salmon 

Soften I tablespoon of gelatine in 3 tablespoons of water; boil the liquid of one can 
of salmon with '■, cup of water until the quantity is about i cup; pour this over 
the gelatine and let all dissolve. 

Flake the salmon, chop 3-^ stalk celery and 2 hard boiled eggs fine, mix all and 
add I2 teaspoon of salt and }4 teaspoon of red pepper. After gelatine is cool, 
pour it over the salmon mixture either in a large mold or small ones; jelly glasses 
half filled answer the purpose of individual molds very nicely. Place on ice and 
let harden. Serve with sliced cucumbers and mustard mayonnaise, or cream 
whipped very stiff and flavored with lemon juice. 



UL 



jssi. 



■^sr 



MOCK HERRING SALAD 

Drain liquid off i can salmon and flake, then add ^4 cup of pickles. ? hard boiled 
eggs, J-i cup of cooked beets and ^2 cup of ground boiled veal; chop all fine and 
mix well. Serve with mustard ma\onnaise sauce. 



^ 



PICKLED HERRING 

Soak D Holland milchner herring in cold water for 12 to 14 hours, changing the 
water three or four times to remove salt. 

Pour off the last water and clean each herring, remove head, skin the body, 
split open on under side and remove roe or milch. Then take knife and scrape 
out anything adhering to backbone, also the thin black skin near the head. Wash 
the herring thoroughly and pack in a crock or jar. Mash the roe or milch (soft 
white pieces) through a strainer, add to it ^i cup good vinegar, '2 lemon, i small 
onion cut in slices and i teaspoon whole mixed spice; pour this over the herring 
and let them remain in it several days before using. These are especially good 
served with hot boiled potatoes with Jackets and pickled beets. Use the sauce 
that the herring is pickled in, o\'er the potatoes. Herring pickled this way will 
keep for weeks in a cool place. 

HERRING SALAD 

Chop or cut fine the following: i cup pickled herring, 1 cup boiled potatoes, 
1x2 cup of boiled veal, 3 hard boiled eggs, 4 large boiled beets, i small onion, 1 large 
sour pickle and i cup fresh apples; mix well. Pour over this some of the sauce 
the herring was pickled in; add a little more vinegar if it is not sour enough. Sa\e 
about 2 tablespoons of beets, pickles, yolks and whites of hard boiled eggs, cut 
fine and decorate the top of the salad with red. white, green and yellow stripes. 



5 



BROILED SHAD 

Wash and wipe the fish dry and split. Lay on a broiler with the skin up. When 
browned, turn. Melt some butter with pepper and salt in it, and mop it over the 
fish while broiling. It will take about twenty minutes to cook one of medium 
size. Serve on hot dish and pour over it drawn butter. 



SHAD ROE 

Put the roe in a pan. cover with cold water and parboil ; be careful not to break 
them. When done, take from the water and cool ; then season with pepper and 
salt, dust with flour and dip into beaten egg. roll in bread crumbs or cracker dust; 
fry brown in plenty lard and serve hot. 



xssi. 



49 






i 



4* 



^^ 



-$- 



•5- 



-^ 



8 



f 






■m 




xx: 



WAYS OF USING LEFT-OVER FISH 

FISH HASH 

Flake and mix equal parts of cold cooked fish and cold chopped or mashed potatoes; 
season with salt and pepper. Fry out fat pork or ham fat, leaving enough fat 
in pan to moisten fish and potatoes. Put in fish and potatoes and fry until well 
browned underneath, fold and turn like an omelet. This mixture can also be 
fried in little cakes. 

ESCALLOPED FISH 

Flake i ' i cups of cold cooked fish and place in layers in a greased baking dish, 
sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper, then cover with sauce, made of I4' cup 
butter blended with 1 rounding tablespoon flour, a dash of paprika and celery 
salt and ^'4 cup of milk. 

Cover the top with bread crumbs that have been moistened in a little butter 
and bake in oven for ten minutes. 

CREAMED FISH 

Flake cold cooked fish, season with salt and pepper, put in pan and cover with 
milk, add 1 teaspoon of butter and when milk boils, thicken with flour moistened 
with milk. 

FISH SALAD 

Flake or cut cold cooked fish in small pieces, add l, cup of celery cut fine and 2 
hard boiled eggs chopped, to each cup of fish. 
Mix with mustard mayonnaise dressing. 





FISH STUFFINGS 
PLAIN STUFFING FOR FISH 

Mix 1 cup bread crumbs or stale bread (moistened and wrung dry), I4 cup melted 
butter, '., teaspoon salt, ^s teaspoon pepper, ig teaspoon onion juice, 1 teaspoon 
each chopped parsley and pickles or capers and 1 9 cup tomatoes. 

The tomatoes can be omitted and ^2 cup of milk (or water), with i egg and i 
tablespoon of sugar substituted. 



»C 




52 




»: 



^ 



OYSTER STUFFING FOR FISH 

Mix well >2 pint oysters, i cup craciver crumbs, rolled fine, 'i cup melted butter. 
1 teaspoon salt, ?4 teaspoon pepper, i teaspoon lemon juice and i egg. 




OYSTERS 




Of all the shell fish, oysters are probably the most popular; they are in season 
from September to May. In buying oysters, be sure to select those that are 
plump and free from green spots. Never let remain in a tin dish any length of 
time or in a warm place, as they spoil very quickly and become very poisonous. 



ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Mix }■) cup bread crumbs and i cup of cracker crumbs with i^ cup o( melted 
butter; spread 's of this o\er the bottom of a shallow baking dish, then put in 
I cup of oysters, well drained, and sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Mix 
4 tablespoons of the oyster liquid with i tablespoons ot milk, cream or sherry 
wine and pour half of this over the layer of oysters; sprinkle another layer of crumbs 
then another layer of oysters ( i cup), and the other half of the milk or wine and 
oyster liquor. Co\er the top with remaining crumbs and bake 50 minutes in a 
hot oven. Never use more than two layers of oysters, as the middle layers are 
always underdone. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Select large oysters, drain well, season with salt and pepper, roll in flour then dip 
in beaten egg and roll in cracker or bread crumbs, fry in smoking hot lard until 
light brown, place on dish in layers and serve hot with slices of lemon. 



OYSTER LOAF 

Slice off the top crust and scoop out the inside of a loaf of white bread, butter the 
inside of the shell thickly, pack with fried oysters, replace the top crust and bake 
1 5 minutes in a moderate oven. 

O^'STER STEW 

Heat I cup of oysters in their own liquor until the edges curl up, but do not boil, 
as boiling makes the oysters tough. Then boil 2 cups of milk to which add i 
rounding tablespoon butter, '2 teaspoon salt and >« teaspoon pepper; lastly, add 
the hot oysters; serve at once with small crackers. 



»: 




irsj" 



OUSTERS FRIED IN BATTER 

Clean and dry between towels, large oysters. Mix '3 cup milk and 1 cup flour 
until smooth, add i egg beaten until light, season with salt and pepper. Place 
each oyster in tablespoon of this batter and fry in deep fat. 

OYSTERS IN BLANKETS 

Clean oysters, wrap each in a very thin slice of bacon and fasten w ith small wooden 
toothpicks. Fr\' until bacon is crisp. Serve on toast. 

0^'STER CROQUETTES 

Cut very fine i cup of raw oysters, add 1 cup of ground cooked veal, 4 tablespoons 
cracker crumbs, i tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon onion juice, beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste; mix thoroughly. Shape in croquettes, 
roll in bread crumbs and fi-y in boiling lard. 

OYSTER P.ATT^- FILLING 

For b patty shells: Clean, then heat 2 cups oysters in their own liquor for i minute 
so edges just begin to curl, season with 1 teaspoon of salt and >2 teaspoon pepper. 
Blend 'o cup butter with '2 cup of flour (being careful not to let it brown), add 
1 cup milk, stir until smooth, then the broth of the heated oysters and stir until 
it comes to a boil ; remove from fire and add yolks of 2 eggs, beaten with ' 2 teaspoon 
lemon juice; return to fire and let this boil again, stirring all the time to keep it 
from curdling. Have the mixture as stiff as batter cake dough, then add the hot 
oysters. Fill the cavity of the shell, allowing some to run over on plate; }i glass 
of white wine, added to lemon juice and eggs, improves the flavor. 



SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS AND VEGETABLES 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook, for 20 minutes, 2 cups canned or fresh tomatoes, i cup water. 1 sliced onion, 
3 cloves and i tablespoon sugar; add 3 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour 
moistened with a little water and stirred smooth, i teaspoon salt and I4 teaspoon 
pepper. Cook 10 minutes and strain. 

WHITE SAUCE 

Cream i tablespoon each of flour and butter until thoroughly mixed, add to one 
cup milk and cook until thickened, stirring until the flour and butter are well 
mixed. Season with salt and pepper. 



xsn, 



56 



jssr 



DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter, add i tablespoon flour, '2 teaspoon salt, stir until 
smooth, add .'2 cup water, mix well and put on fire until it boils, stirring constantly. 



EGG SAUCE 

Boil 2 eggs hard, chop fine, season with salt and pepper, then stir into i rounding 
tablespoon melted butter ani.1 add '2 cup water. Mix well. 



) 



HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

Rub to a cream, 3 rounding tablespoons butter, add yolks of 2 eggs, i at a time, 
and beat well, then add juice of '2 lemon, I4 teaspoon salt and a few grains of 
cayenne pepper. A few minutes before serving add '2 cup boiling water and cook 
until the sauce thickens like custard, stirring constantly. Cook over hot water 
If cooked too lone, same will curdle. 



MUSTARD SAUCE 

Blend I tablespoon butter and 1 teaspoon flour until smooth, add 'j cup milk 
(or water) and let this boil ; then add i tablespoon of vinegar, 2 tablespoons prepared 
mustard, 1 tablespoon catsup, i teaspoon table sauce, 14 teaspoon of salt, pinch 
of red pepper and i teaspoon of sugar. Mix well and let come to a boil. 



5 



MUSTARD MAYONNAISE 

Mix 2 tablespoons sugar, i teaspoon ftour. then add i egg and beat; after that, add 
2 teaspoons ground mustard and beat again. Boil ^ cup of milk and when it 
boils add it gradually to mustard and egg mixture, beating all the time, as it 
curdles easily. 

Return to fire and add '4 cup of water, '2 teaspoon salt, '4 teaspoon red pepper 
and I teaspoon of butter. Stir constantly until it boils, then remo\e at once, 
adding '2 teaspoon onion juice and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, beating while these 
are added, if it looks somewhat curdled, add a little lemon juice and vigorous 
beating will bring it all right again. 

Be sure the milk is of the freshest, else it is almost impossible to keep it from 
furdling. 



JSSM. 



f 






<- 



-i- 



-•J.. 



-f 






f 



i 



59 




>c< 



OYSTER SAUCE 

Blend J-4 cup butter and 1 rounding tablespoon flour until smooth, then add % 
cup of milk and boil until very thick. Flavor v\-ith '2 teaspoon salt, }4 teaspoon 
of red pepper and 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Heat 'o pint of oysters in their 
own juice until the edges curl up (but do not boil), then add this to the other 
mixture and let it come to a boil, being careful to stir all the time or else it w ill 
curdle. 








Meat is the name applied to the flesh ol' all animals that are used for food. It 
is rarely eaten raw by civilized people. It is either roasted, stewed, fried or boiled. 
The chief object of cooking is the loosening of the tissues, which facilitates digestion 
by exposing them more fully to the action of the digestive juices. Another impor- 
tant object is to kill parasites, and thus render harmless organisms that might 
otherwise expose the eater to great risks. Minor, but by no means unimportant, 
objects are the coagulation of the albumen and blood so as to render the meat more 
acceptable to the sight, and the development and improvement of the natural 
flavor, which is often accomplished in part by the addition of condiments. In 
general, it is one of the most digestible of food materials. Recent experiments 
indicate that all kinds of meat are readily digested, less expensive cuts as well as 
the more costly. The higher priced cuts contain more of the so-called "extractives," 
that is. flavors of the most pleasing quality, and it is these "extractives" which 
not only give the meat its agreeable flavor, but also actually stimulate the digestive 
processes. 

For persons with normal digestion, the less expensi\e cuts, even if less rich in 
extractives, when cooked and properly seasoned in an appetizing way, may be 
used to replace the more costly cuts and are just as nutritious. 

Meat is undeniably one of the more expensive items in the food bill of the ordinary 
family, and for this reason it is important that it be bought and used to the best 
possible advantage. 



S 




It is also important to reduce waste by using as much as possible of the bone, 
fat and trimmings, not usually served with the meat itself. If nothing else can 
be done with them, the bones and trimmings can always be profitably used in the 
soup kettle and the fat can be kept for cooking, thus saving the more expensive 
butter and lard. The bits of meat not served with the main dish or remaining 
after the first serving can be seasoned and recooked in many palatable ways, or 
can be combined with vegetables, pie crust or other materials, and thus the meat 
flavor ma\' be extended over a large number of inexpensive dishes. 



»: 




rnr 



In fact, the number of tasty dishes which a good cook can make out of the 
cheaper cuts of meat or meat "left-over" is almost endless. Undoubtedly more 
time and skill are required in their preparation than in the simple cooking of the 
more expensive cuts, just as more time and skill are required for careful, intelligent 
marketing than for haphazard ordering. The real superiority of a good cook 
lies not so much in the preparation of expensive dishes or fancy dishes as in the 
attractive preparation of inexpensive dishes for every day and in the skillful com- 
bination of flaxors. 

Some housekeepers seem to be prejudiced against economizing in such ways as 
those here suggested; but if the comfort of the family does not suffer and the meals 
are kept as varied and appetizing as when they cost more, little ground for this 
feeling should exist. It is surely not beneath the dignity of any family to avoid 
useless expenditure, no matter how generous the income. The intelligent house- 
keeper should take as much pride in setting a good table at a low price as the 
manufacturer does in lessening the expense and cost of the production of his factory. 

GENERAL METHODS OF PREPARING MEATS FOR THE TABLE 

Paper should be removed from meat as soon as it comes from the market, for the 
reason that paper absorbs the juice and is apt to sour the meat. 

Meat may be washed and dried with a soft damp cloth, but it should never be 
allowed to stand in cold water, as the juices will draw out. 

The advantage of variety in the methods of preparing and serving are to be 
considered even more seriously in the cooking of the cheaper cuts of meats than 
in the cooking of the more expensive ones; yet, even in this connection it is a mistake 
to lose sight of the fact that, though there is a great variety of dishes, the processes 
involved are few in number. An experienced teacher of cooking, a woman who has 
made very valuable contributions to the art of cooking by showing that most of 
the numerous processes outlined and elaborately described in the cook books 
can be classified under a very few heads, says that she tries "to reduce the cooking 
of meat to its lowest terms" and teaches three ways of cooking them. 

The first way is the application of intense heat to keep in the juices. This is 
suitable only for portions of clear meat where the fibers are tender. 

By the second method the meats are put in cold water and cooked in a low 
temperature; this is suitable for bone, gristle and the toughest portions of the meat, 
which for this purpose should be divided into small bits. 

The third way is a combination of the two methods for halfway cuts, namely, 
those that are neither tender nor very tough. 

The many varieties of meat dishes are usually onh' a matter of flavor and garnish- 
ment. In other words, of the three processes, the first is the short method — 



^ 



X£!L 



rnr 



V9 



5 



it aims to keep all the juices within the meat: the second is a very long method 
for the purpose of getting all or most of the Juices out; the third is a combination 
of the two, not so long as the second and yet requiring so much time that there 
is danger of the meat being rendered tasteless, unless certain precautions are 
taken, such as searing in hot lat oi' plunging into boiling water. 

Different kinds of cuts of meat \'ary considerably in price. Sometimes the 
cheaper cuts contain a larger proportion of refuse than the more expensive, 
and the apparent cost is less than the actual cost of the edible portion. Aside 
from this, the advantage of the more expensive cuts lies in tenderness and 
flavor rather than in nutritive value. Tenderness depends on the character of 
the muscle fiber and connective tissues of which the meat is composed. Flavor 
depends partly on the distribution of fat amongst the tissues, but mainly on 
nitrogenous bodies known as "extractives," which are usually more abundant 
and of more agreeable flavor in the more tender parts of the animal. All meat is 
made up of muscle fibers held together by connective tissues. When cooking, the 
heat dissolves the connective tissues and in a measure makes the meat more tender, 
but when heated to or above the boiling point, the intense heat, although it dis- 
solves the connective tissues, nevertheless hardens the muscle fibers; for this 
reason, tough meats should be cooked at a lower temperature than the boiling 
point, and for a long time, so that the tissue may be dissolved without hardening 
the muscle fibers. Cooking, especially in water, unless properly done, allows the 
escape into the water of the nutritious material of the meat. Where the liquid 
in which meat is cooked is to be used, as in soups and some stews, it is desirable 
to ha\e the nutriment cooked out of the meat; but where the meat only is to be 
used it should be cooked so as to retain all the juices and extractives. Therefore, 
to retain all the extractives and juices, when not used as soup or stew meat, it is 
necessary to sear the exterior of the meat, either by plunging into boiling water 
or hot fat, or by direct application of heat as in roasting, before subjecting it to 
the long continuous cooking 

Tough meat may be pounded or chopped to break the tissues to a certain 
extent and thus make it more tender. Besides using such methods to retain and 
develop the natural flavor of the meat, other flavors may be added to supplement 
them; these may be put into the meat before cooking or may be added in the form 
of relish or sauce. 

Vegetables of distincti\e fla\ors, such as onions, carrots or celery; savory herbs, 
such as parsley, sage, bay leaf or thyme; materials, such as vinegar, pickles or 
currant jelly; spices, such as pepper, cloves or curry mixtures, and sharp or highly 
seasoned meat sauces are all types of flavoring materials which are useful for such 
purposes, and which may be used in a great \ariety of ways. 



5 



£;SI, 



i 



+ 









<- 



-y 



-5- 






^ 






&& 












^* 



-5- 



.•}. 



-^ 






•^ 






^»«»SI 




Broiled Steak 
Roast Beef 
Boiled Mutton 
Roast Mutton 
Roast Lamb - 
Roast Pork 



xx: 



PALATABLE COMBINATIONS 



Mushrooms, Butter, Fried Onions. 

Grated Horseradish, Tomato Catsup. 

Caper Sauce. 

Stewed Gooseberry Sauce, Currant Jelly 

Mint Sauce, 

Apple Sauce, Fried or Baked Apples. 




BEEF 

Beef is the meat of the steer, ox or cow. It is the most nutritious and largely 
consumed of all meats. The quality of beef depends upon the age of the animal 
and the manner in which it was fed. Good beef should be firm, of fine grain, 
bright red in color and well streaked or corded with fat, which should be firm and 
of a light yellowish color. 

VEAL 

Veal is the meat of young calf from b to 1 1 weeks old ; from a very young animal 
it is unwholesome and hard to digest. Good veal is known by its pinkish colored 
llesh and white fat; when the flesh is colorless, the animal was too young to kill 
for food, or was not in proper condition. Veal is best during spring, but can be 
had all year. It contains very little fat and always requires much butter or lard 
when being cooked to keep it from becoming dry and tasteless. 



PORK 

Pork is the. meat of pig or hog. It contains a larger percentage of fat than any 
other meat, and when eaten fresh is the most difficult of digestion. It is in the 
market all year, yet should be sparingly served, except during cold weather. 




MUTTON 

Vlutton is the name given to the meat of the sheep. When the sheep is less than 
one year of age, the meat is usually called lamb. Spring lamb is from young sheep 
not more than 3 months of age and generally appears in market as early as January, 
but is scarce until March. Good mutton or lamb is fine grained and pink in color, 
the fat is white, hard and flaky. If the thin tissues or underskin comes off easily, 
the mutton is good. Lamb chops can be distinguished from mutton chops by the 
red color of the bone. Lamb should be cooked well done, while mutton is often 
cooked rare. 



»Z 





>c< 



^ 



GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING MEAT 

For boiling, plunge meat into boiling water and let it boil 8 or lo minutes in order 
to quickly cook the outside, so that the juice inside will not escape; then set back 
on the sto\e, where there is sufficient heat to keep the water just below the. boiling 
point and cook until meat is tender. Meat cooked in this way will be tender and 
juicy, whereas if rapidly boiled it will be tough, dry and flavorless. In boiling 
corned beef or any very salty meat, where it is necessary to draw out some of the 
salt, the meat should be put into cold, instead of boiling water, and should have 
the same long, slow cooking as fresh meat. 

For broths and beef tea, where the object is to draw out the juices, the meat 
should be cut in small pieces, put in cold water and cooked below the boiling point. 
For stews, the meat and bones should be cut small, covered with boiling water and 
cooked very slowly. For broiling, bright red coals are necessary to produce an 
intense heat to quickly cook the outside of the meat, thus preventing escape of 
juices. The broiler holding the meat should be frequently turned. A properly 
broiled piece of meat is browned on the outside; the inside should be red and juicy. 
Pan broiling is a good method for cooking steaks and chops, when a bed of coals 
for broiling is not available. The frying pan in w hich the meat is to be broiled 
must be very hot when the meat is put in and the meat must be frequently turned; 
the principle is the same as when using a broiler. 

For roasting, great heat is needed at first to sear the outside of the meat, after 
which the heat may be reduced. It can be readily seen that the smaller the roast 
the greater the heat may be. If a very large roast is exposed to an intense heat, 
the outside will become burned before the heat can reach the inside. The time 
for cooking meats depends so much upon the size, cut, thickness, amount of surface 
exposed and quality of meat, that it is impossible to give exact rules. The following 
table will, however, be a partial guide: 




TIME TABLE FOR COOKING MEATS 




Beef, rib, rare, per pound - - - 
Beef, rib, well done, per pound 
Beef, rib, rolled, rare, per pound 
Beef, top of sirloin, rare, per pound 
Beef, top of sirloin, well done, per pound 
Beef, top round, rare, per pound 
Beef, top round, well done, per pound 
Beef, cross ribs, rare, per pound 
Beef, cross ribs, well done, per pound - 
Shoulder of mutton, per pound 
Leg or breast of veal, per pound - 
Pork, spare ribs or loin, per pound - 



8 to ID minutes. 
12 to 14 minutes. 
12 minutes, 
12 minutes. 
1 5 minutes. 
1 2 minutes. 
15 minutes. 
1 2 minutes. 
15 minutes. 
18 to 20 minutes. 
30 minutes. 
25 minutes. 




TSST 



Ri 



BROILING 



Beefsteak, one inch thick 
Beefsteak, one and a half inch thick 
Chops - - - - - 



5 to 7 minutes. 

ID to 15 minutes. 

b to 8 minutes. 



OVEN TESTS 

Eor baking or roasting large pieces of meat, a moderate oven is required and a 
longer time; a moderate oven will turn a piece of white writing paper dark brown 
in b minutes, or the hand can be held inside from 12 to 15 seconds. For baking 
or roasting a small piece of meat, a quick oven is required and a shorter time; a 
quick oven will turn a piece of white writing paper dark brown in 4 minutes; the 
hand can be held inside from 8 to 10 seconds. 



i 



PARTS OF ANIMAL USED FOR FOOD 

The following diagrams of a steer, calf, sheep or hog, show the positions of the 
different cuts of beef, veal, mutton and pork as they are sold in the markets and the 
tables show their various uses. A thorough knowledge of the subject can only be 
gained by frequent visits to the market and a careful study of the cuts themselves. 
The butcher is usually willing to help his customers in such study. 



SKETCH OF STEER 




^S^ 



72 



rnr 



) 



1. 


Neck. 


2. 


Chuck. 


^■ 


Ribs. 


4- 


Shoulder Clod. 


5. 


Fore Sh.ink 


c->. 


Brisket, 


7- 


Cross Ribs. 


8. 


Plate. 


q- 


Navel. 


lO. 


Loin, 


I ] . 


Flank. 


1 2 , 


Rump, 


1 i. 


Round. 


14. 


Second C:ut Round 


1 ?. 


Hind Shank. 




5 



THE USE OF VARIOUS CUTS 



1 . Neck - - - 

2. Chuck 

3. Ribs - - - 

4. Shol'lder - 

5. Fore Shank - 
b. Brisket 

7. Cross Ribs - 

8. Plate - - 

Q. Navel - - - 

10. Loin - - - 

1 1 . Flank - _ _ 

12. Rlimp - 

I?. ROL'ND - - - 

14. Second Cut Round 

i^. Hind Shank - 



Stews, mince meat. 

Roasts, steaks, stews, also chuck rih roasts. 

Rolled roasts or rib roasts. 

Pot roasts, stews. 

Soups, stews. 

Corning. 

Steaks, roasts. 

Corning mostly. 

Corning mostly. 

Porterhouse, tenderloin and sirloin steaks. 

Steaks, stews, also stuffed or rolled and roasted. 

Steaks, hamburger steak, pot roasts, stews. 

Steaks, hamburger steak, pot roasts, stews. 

Steaks, beef tea, stews. 

Soups, stews. 




73 




Tongue 

Heart 

Liver 

Kidneys 

Tripe 

Tail - 

Suet 



»: 



OTHER PARTS OF BEEF USED FOR FOOD ARE: 

- - - - Smoked, or fresh boiled, corned, or pickled. 
- - - - Stuffed and baked. 

Fried or broiled. 
Stewed. 
- - - Boiled or fried. 
- - - Soup. 

Chopped for mince meat, fried out for drippings 




SKETCH OF VEAL 



Head. 

Neck. 

Chuck. 

Shoulder. 

Fore .Shank. 

IJrx-ast. 



/ 

4 


1 7 


8 


fk 


6 


K 


10 /f 


i 




N 


vutU 



Ribs. 

Loin 

Flank. 

Leg. 

! lind .Shank. 




^ 



THE USE OF VARIOUS CUTS 



Head 

Neck - 

Chuck 

Shoulder - 

Fore Shank 

Breast 

Ribs 

Loin - 

Flank 

Leg 

Hind Shank 




Boiling, serve with pluck or liver 

Stews. 

Stews. 

Stuffed and roasted. 

Stews. 

Roast, stuffed and roasted. 

Chops. 

Chops, kidney roast. 

Stews. 

Roast, baked, sliced for cutlets. 

Stews. 



»c 





>c< 



OTHER PARTS OF VEAL USED FOR FOOD ARE: 

Heart ------ Stuffed and baked. 

Tongue ----- Smoked, or fresh boiled, corned, or pickled 

Liver ------ Fried or broiled. 

KiDNEis ----- Stewed. 

Sweetbreads - - - - Fried, stewed. 




SKETCH OF MUTTON OR LAMB 




Neck 

Chuck 

Shoulder 

Flank 

Loin 

Leg - 




'IHE USE OF VARIOUS CUTS 

Stews, broth. 



Stews, broth, roast. 

Roast or stuffed and roasted. 

Chops, stews. 

Chops, roasts. 

Roasted or boiled whole, cutlets. 




OTHER PARTS OF MUTTON USED FOR FOOD ARE: 

Tongue ------ 

Heart ------- 

Sweetbreads ----- 



Pickled, boiled. 
Stuffed and baked. 
Fried, stewed. 



-PSiP^ 




rnr 



■^ 



SKETCH OF A HOG (PORK) 




5 



THE USE OF VARIOUS CUTS 

Head - - Hogshead cheese, pickled, boiled with greens. 

Shol'LDEr - Fresh, pork steak or roast ; sugar cured shoulders, smoked. 

Whole Back - Salting, smoked, pickled. 

Middle Cut - Smoked for bacon. 

Bell-i' - - Salted or pickled as fat pork. 

Ham - - Fresh, pork steak or roast; sugar cured hams, smoked. 

Ribs - - - Spare ribs, pork chops, roasts. 

Loin - - Pork chops and roasts. 



OTHER P.ARTS OF A HOG USED FOR FOOD ARE: 

Tenderloin ------ Fried or broiled. 

Tongues ------ Pickled or boiled fresh. 

Ears -------- Pickled. 

Peex ------- Pickled or boiled fresh. 

Backbones and Tails - - - - Boiled with kraut. 

Trimmings ------ Highly seasoned for sausage meat. 

Little pigs about 4 weeks old are sometimes killed, dressed and roasted v\hole. 



££t 



u 



rnr 



TRYING OUT FAT 

A double boiler is the best to use in trying out small portions of fat. There is no 
danger of burning the fat and the odor is much less noticeable than v.hen it is 
heated in a dish set directly over the fire. 



V 



CLARIFYING FAT 

To clarify fat. pour boiling water over it, boil thoroughly and then set it away to 
cool. The cold fat may be removed in a solid cake; any impurities will be found 
at the bottom of the cake and may be removed by scraping off. By repeating 
this process 2 or 3 times a clean, white cake of fat will be obtained. 

A slightly burnt taste or an\' objectionable flavor can often be removed from 
fat by means of potatoes. After melting the fat, drop into it thick slices of raw- 
potatoes, heat gradually; when the fat ceases to bubble and the potatoes are brown, 
strain through a cloth placed in a strainer. 

Leaf lard is from the leaf shaped pieces of solid fat which lie inside the loin of 
the hog surrounding the kidneys. It is the best lard. 



5 



SAVORS' DRIPPINGS 

When rendering the drippings of fat meat, flavor with a small onion (do not cut it), 
a few leaves of savory and th>me. a teaspoon of salt and a little pepper. This 
is enough for 2 cups of fat. Strain the drippings, keep covered and in a cool place. 



i 



A 



HOW TO COOK MEATS 

BROILED STEAK 

Steak, whether sirloin, porterhouse or tenderloin, should be cut at least i inch 
thick for broiling. 

Wipe meat with damp cloth, grease broiler with fat, place meat on it and turn 
every ten seconds for the first 2 minutes, then turn occasionally until browned. 
Steak I inch thick requires 5 to 7 minutes rare, 10 to 12 minutes medium and 15 
minutes well done. Place steak on platter, pour melted butter over it and season 
with salt and pepper. 

PAN BROILED STEAK 

Pan broiling is different than frying. For broiling only enough fat is used to keep 
steak from sticking. 

Wipe meat, remove fat. heat pan \ery hot and rub o\er with fat, put in the 
steak, cook for 5 minutes, turning every 10 seconds at first, then let brown on 
each side. Season with salt and pepper and pour over it the browned drippings. 






^ 



4* 



^-^ 



-5- 



•5- 



-^ 



i[8 



f 



■^■18 



i 






4* 



'Kv 



<- 



-J- 



•5- 



-f 



^ 



f 



^ 







>c>c: 



i 




FRIED STEAK OR CHOPS 

Steaks or chops of any kind when not cut thick, do not i^roil well, hut should be 
fried. To fry them cut the edge and place in skillet with plenty of hot butter 
and turn often. To prevent curling up, cut or nick the edges at intervals of about 
an inch. E.xperience will soon teach the length of time required to fry well, medium 
or rare. 



BROILED RUMP ROAST 

Put a 4-pound piece of fat-covered rump in pan under gas broiler and turn until 
brown on all sides, then sprinkle with salt and add '2 sliced onion to the juice 
and fat in pan, then put in upper o\en w ith medium heat. One hour will cook the 
meat about medium. 

Then put i rounding tablespoon flour in pan (if there is too much fat, pour off 
part and use it for drippings): about '2 cup of fat in pan is enough; let flour and 
fat brown, then add '2 teaspoon salt and about 1 cup water and boil 1 or 2 minutes; 
serve roast and gravy hot. Roast prepared in this manner sliced cold and served 
with fried onions is \ery good. 



ROUND STEAK WITH OYSTERS 

Dredge a round steak (cut '2 inch thick), with flour and a little salt. Then mix 
I cup oysters with 'g cup of cracker crumbs, i rounding teaspoon butter, melted, 
I teaspoon salt and 1 beaten egg. Spread this on round steak, roll and tie or sew, 
place in pan, dot steak with butter and bacon or ham fat drippings, add ^ cup 
water and bake slowly for 2 hours, turning and basting occasionally. A filling 
made of sausage meat, mixed with H teaspoon salt and i beaten egg, may be 
substituted for the ovster filling. 



STEW MEAT — Horseradish Gravy 

Boil I or 2 pounds of brisket or short ribs until tender. Blend i rounding tablespoon 
butter and 1 teaspoon flour in a pan, add '2 teaspoon of salt and i cup broth 
that meat was cooked in (balance of broth can be saved for soup stock). 2 table- 
spoons grated horseradish and i flat tablespoon sugar. Boil a few minutes and 
serve with meat. 

Meat from which soup has been made ma\' be used as above. 




^ 




84 




>c< 



^ 




MEAT BALLS WITH PAPRIKA TOMATO SAUCE 

Chop and mix '2 cup of beef and '2 cup pork, add 3 heaping tablespoons cold 
boiled rice, 1 teaspoon onion juice, '2 teaspoon salt, 's teaspoon red pepper, 2 
tablespoons fine bread crumbs and i beaten egg. Mix well with a fork and make 
into balls or fill sweet green peppers from which all seeds have been removed. 
This will fill about q peppers. For tomato sauce, take '2 can tomatoes and boil 
5 minutes, then add 's teaspoon paprika, '2 teaspoon onion juice, i teaspoon 
butter, 'o teaspoon salt and i teaspoon sugar. Boil the meat balls or peppers, 
filled with meat, in this tomato sauce for about -^ of an hour over a slow fire. 
When done, remo\e and thicken tomato sauce with i teaspoon Hour moistened 
with a little water, then pour sauce around meat and serve. 



FLANK STEAK WITH CHILI SAUCE 

Beat I small flank steak with edge of meat pounder, then dredge with Hour and 
fry brown in butter and a little suet. When done, spread chili sauce thickly over 
the top and let simmer for '■> hour. 



GERMAN SOUR ROAST— Sauer Braten 

Interlard 3 pounds of shoulder or sirloin of beef with strips of ham or bacon fat. 
If one has no larding needle use a very sharp and pointed little paring knife, cut 
down through the meat, enlarge the opening with the little finger and then slip 
in the strip of fat. Heat '2 cup of vinegar and ^2 cup of water, pour over meat, 
having first rubbed the meat with salt, then add 3 or 4 cloves, '2 teaspoon whole 
peppers, 4 allspice, 2 bay leaves and i onion cut in quarters. Let the meat stay 
in this pickle from i to 3 days. Heat i teaspoon butter and i tablespoon ham or 
bacon fat in a pot, take the meat out of the vinegar, dredge with flour and place 
in the pot. When well browned, add half of the vinegar in which the meat was 
pickled, cover tightly and let it cook slowly 2 hours, gradually adding the rest of 
the \inegar as the other cooks away. A few carrots and a tomato added last, and 
then the whole strained and thickened with flour moistened with water, make a 
delicious gravy. 



POT ROAST 

Sprinkle with salt, 3-pound piece from rump, shoulder or bottom round of beef, 
dredge with flour, brown both sides in hot butter and bacon drippings in the pan 
and add i sliced onion. When brown, add i cup boiling water, cover closely 
and let simmer for 2 or 3 hours, until meat is tender. Add a little flour moistened 
with water to the gravy to thicken it. 




^ 



»: 




w-^ ^^^ 



^bi 



^^'^. 



T5ST 



5 



HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

Fry 2 ounces of pork until brown, cut 2 pounds top round of heef into 2-inch pieces, 
sprinkle with flour and cook together slowly for about 35 minutes in pot, stirring 
occasionally. Cover with water and let simmer about 2 hours, season with salt 
and pepper or paprika; then have the following sauce ready and add to meat in pot; 
let simmer together for 5 minutes before serving : 

Cook 2 cups of tomatoes, i stalk celer\'. i onion. 2 bay leaves, b whole cloves, 
b black peppers and i blade mace for 20 minutes, run through sieve and add a 
little of the meat broth to it. also potatoes, carrots and green peppers cut in strips 
and cookeel until tender. Ihicken with 2 tablespoons flour moistened with water 
to each cup liquid and season with salt and paprika. Noodles or macaroni are 
served with this in place of potatoes. 

BEEF KIDNEY 

Soak kidney in water 1 5 minutes, then cut into dice, removing all sinewy particles. 
Dredge with flour and brown or steam in pot with 1 teaspoon butter, i tablespoon 
bacon drippings and '4 chopped onion. When all has been stirred for about 10 
minutes and looks cloudy, sprinkle with salt and pepper and add i cup hot water, 
let boil for 112 hours, then add 3 tablespoons vinegar and 2 tablespoons sugar; 
boil and thicken gravy with flour moistened with water. 

FILLET OF BEEF 

Procure a piece of fillet of beef weighing about i or 2 pounds, trim off part of the 
fat, so as to round the fillet, which cut into slices the thickness of your finger, 
beat them lightly with a pounder and cut at inter\als the thin skin which covers 
the top of the fillet to prevent them curling up while broiling. Place them in a 
broiler over a sharp fire, turn three or four times, season with salt, pepper and 
melted butter. 

About b or 7 minutes will be sufficient to cook them. 

MINCED BEEF 

Boil a pound and a half of lean beef, then cut into small dice, which put upon the 
plate; in a stew pan put i rounding teaspoon of finely chopped onions, with i round- 
ing tablespoon butter and stir over the fire until the onions become slightly browned, 
then stir in H tablespoon of flour, with which mi.x by degrees i cup of broth (or 
water) and i teaspoon of vinegar; let it boil 5 minutes, stirring it the whole time, 
then drop in the diced meat. Season rather highly with pepper and salt, and when 
hot pour it into a deep dish and serve with tippets of toasted bread or poached 
eggs on it. 



bdi 



£S^ 



88 



Tssr 



^ 



) 



A 



IRISH STEW 

C^ut 2 pounds o{ short ribs into 5-inch lengths, put into enough boiling water to 
cover. Let simmer until tender, about i '2 hours, then cut 3 medium sized potatoes 
into quarters, i onion and 2 tomatoes (or 2 tablespoons catsup), season with i 
teaspoon salt and '2 teaspoon pepper. Boil until all is tender, then thicken with 
flour moistened with water. 



BEEF OR CALF TONGUE 

Soak a fresh beef tongue or 2 calf tongues in cold water over night, to which a little 
salt has been added. Next morning cover with fresh cold water and boil, adding 
I teaspoon salt, 4 cloves, b whole black peppers, 2 bay leaves and ' 2 onion. When 
tender, lift the tongue out of the liquid (saving the liquid), let cold water run over 
the tongue and pull off the skin and yellow fat at the base; start at the tip and cut 
in slices. K'lake sauce of 2 heaping tablespoons flour in a skillet tossed o\er a 
flame until brown; then add i tablespoon butter, '2 teaspoon salt and the strained 
liquid the tongue was lx)iled in (about i quart). Let this boil, then add I2 cup 
raisins, 3 slices of lemon, '2 cup syrup or molasses, J2 cup vinegar and a dash of 
red pepper. Then la\- in the slices of tongue, simmer 15 to 30 minutes and serve. 



VEAL STEW 

Wash 2 to 3 pounds of neck, breast or shoulder, put into a large pot with teaspoon 
of butter. Keep turning the meat until all sides are steamed but not browned, 
then dust with i tablespoon of flour and 1 teaspoon of salt. Pour on enough boiling 
water to almost cover and let cook for about '^4 hour. Then add 1 cup of tomatoes, 
1/2 cup of cooked rice or spaghetti, 4 or 5 gumbo cut fine and '4 onion. Let this 
boil until tendei', about ^4 hour, then add 1 teaspoon sugar and thicken with flour 
moistened with water. 



VEAL LOAF 

Grind i'2 pounds veal and '2 pound of pork fine, add 4 crackers rolled fine, 3 
tablespoons cream, i tablespoon lemon juice, i tablespoon salt, i^ teaspoon pepper, 
a few drops of onion juice and i egg beaten light. Mix well w ith fork, mold into 
loaf and put in bread pan. Lay strips of ham or bacon fat on top, dot with butter 
and sprinkle with few fine cracker crumbs. After it starts to bake, add '2 cup of 
water, if there is not enough fat to baste. Bake i to i'2 hours. Baste often; 
it makes meat juicier. 



i 



XSSk. 






4* 



^••- 



-5- 



•5- 



-^ 






f 







»: 



^ 




VEAL HEART 

Wash heart, dry thoroughly and remo\'e all fibers inside. Fill with dressing made 
of 1^ cup bread soaked in water and wrung dry. '^ onion fried in a little butter 
and bacon drippings, season w ith salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. Sew up opening, 
dredge with flour and salt, brown all sides in butter and bacon drippings, cover 
with water when brown and let simmer for 2 hours. Thicken gra\'y with flour, 
mi.xed v\'ith a little water. If bacon Flax'or is liked, the heart may be larded with 
ham or bacon fat just before filling; this keeps it juicier. 

BREAST OF VEAL 

If too large, cut in half; use meaty part for roasting, the other part for stew. Ha\e 
butcher cut pocket and after carefully washing and salting, fill the pocket with 
either bread or oyster filling. Bread filling: Put i tablespoon bacon drippings, 
I teaspoon butter in pan with '4 onion cut fine, cook until onion is soft, but not 
brown (about 5 minutes), add this to i cup bread that has been soaked in water 
and wrung dry, lastly add i teaspoon of salt, '2 teaspoon pepper. I4 teaspoon 
nutmeg, i teaspoon sugar or >.i cup of raisins (that have been washed) and 1 beaten 
egg; mix all well. Oyster filling: i cup of oysters, i cup cracker crumbs rolled 
fine, I rounding tablespoon butter, melted, i teaspoon lemon juice, i egg beaten, 
'2 teaspoon salt. Mix all well with fork. 

Fill the breast of veal, sew the opening shut, dust with flour, dot liberally with 
lard and butter or bacon drippings and butter. .'\dd '2 cup water and bake 
slowly for i to 212 hours in moderate oven, covering with pan when top gets too 
brown or hard. 

VEAL CUTLET IN PAPRIKA SAUCE 

Veal cutlets about 1 inch thick, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker crumbs mi.xed 
with flour, Ha\e i tablespoon each butter and lard, hot in pan; lay cutlet in, 
fry brown and done, then sprinkle with salt. Take cutlet out of pan, add i table- 
spoon flour to grease in pan (if not enough add more), blend, then add ^4 cup of 
milk and '2 teaspoon paprika; boil until creamy. Then put cutlet back in pan 
and let simmer for i 5 minutes. 

VEAL WITH MUSHROOMS 

A brisket is best for this nice stew. Cut into 1 1 2 inch squares, season with salt and 
brown in a little hot butter, add 1 large onion and 2 carrots finely chopped and a 
little garlic finely minced. Sift into this i tablespoon flour and when these are all 
brown, pour in i quart of boiling water and add a can of mushrooms, season to taste, 
adding a pinch of cayenne. Let the stew simmer until the meat is perfectly tender. 




-ir>^^ 




92 




>c< 




5 




VEAL AND OUSTER PIE 

Cut in small pieces i pound of veal cutlet; roll these in (lour and brown them in a 
little bacon fat. Then co\er with boilin<; water, flavor with sweet herbs, carrots 
and onion, let simmer 2 hours. Line baking dish with biscuit dou^h, heat in o\en 
until set. then put the veal in; have ready U cup cooked ham chopped fine, add 
to it a little of the hot liquid and stir smooth, then add the rest of the liqiud w ith 
such seasoning as liked. Pour this o\er the meat in the dish, adding here and there 
I pint oysters and a few bits of butter. Cover with biscuit dough and bake 25 
mintites. Serve 2 or ^ tablespoons on piece of biscuit crust. 

CALF'S LIVER SAUTE 

Cut 1 pound calf's liver in slices, put a little buttei" and bacon drippings in the 
frying pan; when hot lay the liver in, season with salt and pepper, a little parsley 
and grated nutmeg; fry over a sharp fire When brown on both sides, dredge with 
I tablespoon vinegar, stir it well, and boil for a few minutes; if the sauce is too pale. 
add a little catsup. 

CALF-'S LIVER— ENGLISH WAY 

Fry sliced bacon in pan, remo\ c the bacon and to the fat add i teaspoon buttei"; 
in this fry slices of calf's li\er, rolled in flour; when brown and crisp, take liver out 
and place it upon a hot dish with the bacon. Add to the remaining fat in pan 
enough flour to thicken, then add enough broth or water to make thin sauce, add 
^2 sliced onion, season with salt and pepper and let simmer a few minutes. If 
liked, 2 tablespoons of table sauce or catsup may be added. 

CALF'S LIVER DR^' 
Calf's li\-er may be fried and served dr\- w ith the bacon and fried onions. 

SWEETBREADS 

When buying, always insist on heart sweetbreads. Soak 2 heart sweetbreads in 
cold water for 2 hours. Drain and plunge into i quart of boiling water, to which 
'2 tablespoon salt has been added. After 5 minutes drain and trim off tissue or 
skin. Lard with 4 narrow slices of fat pork for each sweetbread, lay side by side 
in a covered dish; season with '2 teaspoon salt. I4 teaspoon paprika and a grating 
of nutmeg. Add '2 cup cream, i cup milk, cover pan and heat the whole to boil- 
ing point on top of range. Let simmer 10 minutes, add 12 mushrooms and cook 
1 5 minutes. 

Cream a level teaspoon flour and butter, stir gently into the hot liquid. Toats 
3 slices of bread, lay in pan, put sweetbreads on the toast, pour liquid over and let 
come to a boil on top of sto\e, then put in o\en and bake 10 minutes. 



x>c 




^^-.^^^ — ^ ' - °~^^^qiS 



^H 



Sib^;^: . ^d^^ 



MK-^ ^^^^^ 



k 






95 



rnr 



SWEETBREADS AND MUSHROOMS 

Soak I heart s\\ eethread in cold w ater for 2 houfs or more. Drain and plunge into 
boiling water to which 1 teaspoon salt has been added. After 5 minutes, drain, 
and trim all sinewy parts. 

Then make a cream sauce, very rich in butter, to which add ' 2 teaspoon lemon 
juice and 2 tablespoons white wine. Cut the sweetbreads in small pieces, add 
1 can of mushrooms and boil in cream sauce 5 minutes. Serve on square or round 
pieces of toast or in patty shells. 



SWEETBREADS A LA POULETTE 

Soak ? sweetbreads in cold water, plunge into boiling water and boil for 15 minutes, 
then trim. Make a sauce by blending i tablespoon each of butter and flour with 
I cup of boiling water, season with juice of i onion and '•> lemon, add pepper and 
salt to taste. Put the sweetbreads in this and bring to a boil, take from fire and 
stir in yolks of 4 eggs, beaten to a cream, sprinkle with a little parsley and serve 
very hot on toast. 



CALF'S BRAINS FRIED 

Soak in cold water i to 2 hours, then parboil. Dip them into batter of beaten 
egg and bread crumbs, fry them immersed in fat. Serve with parsley. 



MUTTON CHOPS 

Pound chops to make them tender and cut edges, season with pepper, salt and 
onion juice. Place chops in hot, well-greased broiler, broil, turning frequently. 
When thoroughly done, put into a warm dish and butter them. Keep covered 
till a moment before serving. Some like them flavored with mushroom catsup. 

Another way of dressing mutton chops is after trimming them nicely and 
seasoning them with pepper and salt, to lay them before broiling in melted butter 
for awhile. 



ROAST SPRING LAMB 

Either fore or hind quarters of lamb are good for roasting; dredge with flour, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and sear on all sides in oven, then dot with hits of 
butter and add about pint water. Roast in oven, basting frequently. Lamb 
must be well done. Bake 20 minutes to the pound. 



XSS^ 





TSST 



SPRING LAMB WITH MINT SAUCE 

Roast lamb as abo\e and make sauce of i quarter of a bunch ot finely chopped 
mint leaves, '2 cup of water and '2 cup of the broth, add 14 tablespoon vinegar, 
1 tablespoon salt and i rounding tablespoon SLigar. Stir well and ser\e with 
roasted lamb. 



SHOULDER OF LAMB OR MUTTON 

Have butcher remove bones from shoulder of lamb or mutton, leaving a pocket; 
make stuffing with Oo cups bread crumbs or stale bread soaked and wrung 
dry. I tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon onion juice, 's teaspoon nutmeg, 
3^8 teaspoon pepper, i tablespoon catsup, i teaspoon salt and '2 cup of milk or 
I beaten egg. Mix well, put in the pocket, roll and tie or sew. Sprinkle with salt 
and Hour, dot with lard and butter, put in pan with '2 cup water and bake in 
moderate oven about 2 hours, basting often until meat is done, then remove to the 
platter. Add i tablespoon flour to the fat in pan and let it brown, add i cup of 
uater and i teaspoon vinegar to make gravy. 



5 



LAMB AND TURNIPS 

Wash breast of lamb cai'elully. then put in pot with 1 pint of boiling water, i 
teaspoon of salt, b whole peppers, cloves and D turnips, peeled; boil until done, 
then add I4 cup of milk and thicken with flour moistened with water. 



5 



ROAST PORK SHOULDER 

If too large, have butcher cut in half oi- trim off lower shank and cut off pieces of 
upper shoulder; use same for boiling with kraut or vegetables. Use the fleshy 
part for roasting. Wash and clean thoroughly, sprinkle with salt, put in pan with 
I cup of water and roast very slowly foi- ^ or ?'2 hours. As water boils away, '2 
cup more may be added, but after that enough fat will drip; baste with this and 
brown the meat. To make gravy, add i tablespoon flour to '2 cup of the fat, 
let it brown, then add 1 cup of water. 

Sweet potatoes or parsnips may be roasted with the meat, by putting in the 
pan 1 hour before meat is done ; apples also may be roasted in same pan. 

.Apple sauce or baked or roasted apples should t^e served with roast pork. 



Put 1 small spare rib in roasting pan with 
and roast brown. Baste occasionally. 



ROAST SPARE RIBS 

cup water, season with salt and pepper 



£^ 



9 






m 






<- 



-i- 



-y 



-y 



iS 



>^<' 

m 
w 



^ 






j^<--eia 



@0 





>c< 



SPARE RIBS AND KRAUT 

Crack the ribs in the middle and cut in pieces i small spare rih, put in pot with 2 
pounds kraut, with enough water to cover and boil about i hour. 

FILLED SPARE RIBS 

Wash and salt 2 or 3 pounds of spare ribs, have two pieces but do not let butcher 
crack them. Lay the flat piece in pan and cover with apple and raisin filling, 
placing the other piece over. Bake slowly in moderate oven 2 hours, starting with 
I cup of water, adding )A, more and after that the fat from ribs w ill be enough to 
baste with. Make gravy as for pork shoulder. 

Filling: Cut 2 apples fine, '2 cup of bread soaked and wrung dry, '2 cup of 
raisins washed, 1 tablespoons sugar and 1 teaspoon salt. Mix well with fork. 

PORK TENDERLOIN A LA QUAIL 

Cut 2 pork tenderloins in round pieces 'a inch thick. Make stuffing of i cup of 
bread soaked and wrung dry, M onion cut fine and fried in i tablespoon butter, 
1 teaspoon salt, \i teaspoon pepper and if wanted extra good, i beaten egg. Lay 
by spoonsful on one round of tenderloin that has been dusted with salt and 
^^ flour and place another piece on top. Fasten edges with toothpicks or sew and ^^ 

^^ fry brown on both sides in 1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon lard, then let ^V 

^^ simmer for '2 hour on %\o\\ fire, keeping tightly covered to keep in steam. ^^ 

^ Make gravy by browning 1 tablespoon flour in the fat left after frying and add ^ 

1 cup water. These taste like quail. 

BOILED HAM 

Soak a ham in cold water all night, then put in pot with enough fresh cold water 
to cover and boil 15 minutes for each pound. 

When done leave in the water in which it was boiled until cold; this will make 
it juicy. Boiled ham should be sliced very thin when served. 

BOILED HAM — Caramel Flavor 

Prepare and boil same as above. When nearly cold, take from the water in which 
it has been boiled, strip ofl' the skin and rub brown sugar over the entire ham; 
then place in pan and heat in the oven for 10 or 15 minutes. 

BAKED HAM 

Soak a ham in cold water all night. Make a stiff dough of flour and water, roll 
}o inch thick, with this completely envelope the ham. Place in pan, add i quart 
water and bake in moderate oven 15 minutes for each pound. Baste often, adding 
more water when necessarv. When done, let remain in dough until cool. 




»: 





>c< 



WHAT TO DO WITH MEAT SAVINGS 

If Porterhol'SE Steaks are too large, cut off the tougher part or small end and 
grind for hamburger or meat loaf, adding a little ground pork. 




Fat May Be Trimmed from beef and rendered, also the fat drippings if too 
much to use for gravy must be poured off. Put all the beef fat in a small jar 
and keep handy for use. It is better than butter in many cases and saves many 
a pound of more e.\pensi\c fat. 



Fat from Fri ing Bacon or fat pork should be saved in a small jar. 

If Ice is Kept or in w inter when it is cold, one can buy a shoulder of veal for a 
small family, using the ends of shoulder for stew and the meaty part for roasting 
and slicing cold. 

Ham Ends may be bought reasonably; by carefully trimming rind and smoked 
part off and removing the string they can be used to boil with kraut, cabbage, 
greens and other vegetables. 



Bacon Rinds if carefully scrubbed and cleaned are good for seasoning and 
flavoring many vegetables; especially good to cook with navy beans, either lor 
soup or baked beans. 



S 



Trimmings of Fat and meat from pork are good to cook with cabbage, 
parsnips, butter beans, oyster plants, turnips, etc. 



Trimmings and Bones from lamb or mutton are good to cook with carrots 
and turnips. 



Any pieces of meat too raw to be palatable may be put through the meat grinder 
and used for meat loaf or croquettes. 

Butt of Sirloin may be separated along sinews, the sinews trimmed off and 
center piece of meat cut into steaks, using the outer portions for stew or hamburger. 




Breast of Veal if too large may be cut in half, one-half filled with bread or 
oyster filling and the other stewed with tomatoes and rice or dumplings. 

Tenderloin of Beef may be used to best advantage in a small family, by 
using the round end cut for steaks, the thick portion or center for broiling and 
served with fried bacon and the tougher part or tail end lardoned and used for 
sour roast or cooked in a casserole. 







M ^-^ ^-T-^Am 




103 



rssT 



Veal Can Be Warmed 0\er by slicing cold roast veal thin, pouring o\'er it 
any gra\y that may he left and covering the top with a biscuit dough; bake 
until dough is done. 

Left-over Meats May Be Used for mincing and serving on toast, scalloped 
meats, meat balls, croquettes, hash or meat pies. 

In moulding meat balls, croquettes, etc., wet hands with water frequently 
and the mixture will not stick to hands. 

Cracker Crlimbs for frying do not brown as nicely as half cracker and half 
roasted bread crumbs. 

MEAT CAKES— Fricadelle 

Mix well together 2 tablespoons cracker or bread crumbs, i tablespoon melted 
butter. I beaten egg, add i cup chopped cooked meat, then i small onion chopped 
fine, '2 teaspoon celery salt and season with salt and pepper to taste. Make into 
small flat cakes and fry in butter or drippings. 



5 



BAKED HASH 

Mix together 1 cup of cold meat, cut fine, 1 cup potatoes cut fine and i cup stock 
(soup broth) or any left-over gravy. Melt i tablespoon butter in a frying pan, 
add the mixture, stir well, turn into a greased baking dish, bake thirty minutes in a 
quick oven. 

~^ HASH 

Boil I cup raw potatoes cut fine, until tender, in a cup of water, then add i cup 
of any cold meat cut in small pieces and any gravy that may have been left over, 
li onion cut fine, i teaspoon salt, '4 teaspoon pepper, i teaspoon catsup and 1 
teaspoon table sauce. 

Boil all 15 minutes then thicken with flour moistened with water. 

SAUSAGE MEAT 

Grind 2 pounds fresh pork trimmings very fine, season with salt, pepper and 
either sage or a little garlic. Add '2 cup of water, mix well with fork and form 
into flat cakes. Fr\- well done in a little butter. 

ESCALLOPED MEATS 

Put in baking dish layers of any cold cooked meat, sliced or diced (stew first unless 
very tender), moisten with gravy or sauce, and alternate with cold rice, macaroni, 
oysters or the stuffing of meat. Cover with buttered cracker crumbs and bake 
20 minutes. 



MM 



ISJi. 



Tssr 



5 



Veal - - - 
Veal - - - 
Lamb - - - ■ 
Mutton - - 
Mutton - - 
Beef - - - 
Beef - - - 
Beef - - - 
Broiled Liver 
Calf's Liver - 
Boiled Ham 
Chicken - - 
Turkey - - - 
Duck - - - 

Duck - - - 
Fish - - - 
Fish - - - - 



suitable combinations for escalloped meats 

- - Stuffing, rice or spaghetti, tomato sauce. 

- - Ham, horseradish and brown gravy. 

- - Diced raw potatoes, turnips and tomato sauce. 

- - Macaroni, oysters, white or tomato sauce. 

- - Rice, onions and curry or tomato sauce. 

- - Onions, potatoes, celery, brown sauce or gravy. 

- - Mushrooms, spaghetti, parsley, lemon juice and brown gra\'y. 

- - Sausage meat, potatoes and brown gravy. 
Bacon, o\sters, lemon juice and brown or tomato sauce. 
Onions, macaroni, apple sauce. 
Mustard, sliced hard boiled eggs, rice, white sauce. 
Rice, oysters or celery and white sauce. 
Stuffing, celery and giblet gravy. 
Minced oli\'es, quartered apples, macaroni, brown gravy or 

currant jelly. 
Peas, toasted bread and white sauce. 
Stuffing and egg or hoUandaise sauce. 
Diced potatoes, parsley, pickles and tomato sauce. 




xssk. 



f 









^- 



-J- 



-J- 






f 



'•PI 



106 






^- 



-j- 



■O 

m 
*>«• 



■f 






-5- 



-^ 






.i3s:;;^aia 



107 




Under the head of poultry, which is considered to he the best and most delicate of 
all articles of food provided tor man s use, are included chickens, turkeys, geese, 
ducks, guinea fowls, etc. 

Birds with light colored plumage pick easier and cleaner than dark ones. Capons 
are larger and much more tender than the ordinary chicken. 

A good fresh bird shows a well-rounded form, neat compact legs, skin that is a 
clear yellow in color and free from boltches and pin feathers. The flesh should 



be neither flabby nor soft and limlx-r 
eyes should be bright and full. 



f the head is still attached to the body the 




The best way to test the age of a chicken is to press the end of the breast bone 
farthest from the head between the thumb and finger; if it is a young fowl it will 
bend easily. The feet of young birds are soft and smooth. If the skin under the 
w ing of a dressed duck or goose breaks easily it is good indication that same is 
young. 

All poultry is better when killed the day before it is to be used; it should be 
thoroughly cleaned and kept in a cool place until time for cooking. 

When killing poultry either cut the throat or chop off the heai.1 and hold or 
hang with neck down until done struggling; they bleed more freely. 

When done struggling and while still warm pick the feathers; they can be picked 
dry or scalded and picked; be careful to draw all the pin feathers, then singe the 
bird by passing it through the blaze of a piece of lighted paper. 

After the bird has been thoroughly cleaned outside, make an incision at the 
rear of the end of the breast bone and remove the entrails; be careful not to break 
the gall-sack, which is attached to the liver, as the least particle of gall will spoil 
the taste of the bird; then remove the craw, cutting the outside skin just below 
the neck. Cut the gizzard open and take out the inner skin, clean the heart and 
liver and put them all in cold water with a little salt. 



,^\^\m 



ana ly 




^ 




Cm out the oil bag on top near the point of tail, then w ith a clean rag wash the 
hii\l in two or three waters until the water ceases to look bloody, using a little 
salt in the last water, as it cleanses better. When thoroughly clean, tie string 
around neck, hang up and let drain out. 

When filling poultry, fill the craw first and sew shut to keep the stuffing in. 
Always pack stuffing in tight, but ne\-er fill the bird completely full, as the stuffing 
will swell and become soggy. Take out all stitches before sending poultry to 
the table. 

OVEN TESTS 

For baking or roasting a large fowl a moderate oven is required and a longer 
time; a moderate oven will turn a piece of white writing paper dark brown in b 
minutes or the hand can be held inside from 1 1 to 15 seconds. For small fowl a 
quick oven is required and a shorter time; a quick oven will turn a white piece of 
writing paper dark brown in 4 minutes; the hand can be held inside from 8 to 10 
seconds. 



STUFFINGS 

PLAIN STUFFING 

Place 2 cups of stale bread or crumbs in a bowl, moisten with water enough to 
dampen well (but not enough to make the bread pasty) and cover to retain moisture. 
Fry a small chopped onion (do not brown) in i tablespoons of butter and bacon 
drippings, mix well with the damp bread crumbs and season with salt and pepper. 

This stuffing is e.xcellent for all roast poultry, w ild fowl, game or breast of \eal. 

CELERY STUFFING 
Same as plain stuffing, adding i cup chopped celery. 

APPLE AND RAISIN STUFFING 

Place I cup stale bread in a bowl and dampen (do not get too wet), add 2 cups 
finely cut apples, 3 tablespoons sugar, i teaspoon salt and i cup washed raisins; 
mi.\ thoroughly. 

This stuffing is preferred by some, especially for tame goose, duck and young 
pig. as the fruit neutralizes the excess animal fat. 




»: 




■csr 



O^'STER STUFFING 

Mix 2 cups rolled crackers, '2 cup stale bread moistened, ? tablespoons butter 
melted, season w ith salt and pepper and celery salt or '4 cup chopped celery, 
I beaten egg and i cup oysters. 

JELLIED CRANBERRY' SAUCE 

(IN mould) 

Put I quart (i pound) cranberries with I4 cup water (no more) in pot, cook until 
berries burst; then rub through a strainer, add 2 cups sugar and put back in pot to 
simmer for 10 or 15 minutes. Then pour into cups or mould which has been 
dipped in cold water and set in cool place to jell; when it can be turned out and 
sliced. 

ROAST CHICKEN 

Clean and (ill with the kind of stuffing desired, sew shut, tie wings and legs close 
to body, rub with salt and flour and place in roasting pan, dot with butter and 1 or 2 
slices ham or bacon fat, add about i cup water; roast about i'2 to 2 hours until 
tender, basting frequently, turning chicken on all sides to brown. Chickens should 
be cooked thoroughly. Stew the heart. li\'er and gizzard with a small onion, 
chop them and mix with drippings, thicken with browned flour, season with salt 
and pepper. The heart, liver and gizzard may be used for filling as follows: Chop 
gizzard, heart, liver and '2 onion very fine, fry slowly for 5 minutes in 1 tablespoon 
each butter and bacon drippings, add pepper and a little nutmeg; mix well with 
plain bread stuffing. 

LEFT-OVER ROAST CHICKEN 

If not enough gravy is left, make more as follows: Brown 2 heaping tablespoons 
flour in a skillet, add i tablespoon butter and 2 cups of water, rub smooth, then 
add small chopped onion and season with salt and pepper, mix well and let simmer 
about ID minutes. 

Cut chicken in pieces and put with left-over stuffing in a roasting pan, pour 
over it the gravy and heat all thoroughly in the oven. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Clean and cut up young chicken, wash in salt water and drain, sprinkle with salt; 
roll in flour, then fry brown in hot pan, using '2 cup lard and butter in equal parts; 
when brown season with pepper, add Vi cup water, cover tightly and let simmer 
5 minutes, then take out and add i tablespoon browned flour to grease in pan and 
stir in about 1V2 cups of water, boil it up and pour over the chicken. 




jQSi, 



rnw 



■pq 



V 



FRIED CHICKEN— German Style 

Clean and cut up chicken and lay in cold water, w ith a little salt, lor about i hour, 
to draw out blood, then drain. Place pieces in roasting pan with '2 cup butter 
and lard equal parts, place pan in the o\en. turn pieces se\cral times until each 
piece is nicely browned. 

Brown 2 rounding tablespoons Hour in a skillet, add i tablespoon butter and 
2 cups water, rub smooth, then add small chopped onion and season with salt 
and pepper. When well mi.xed, pour over browned chicken in roasting pan, return 
to oven and stew tender; baste pieces of chicken occasionally with gravy to prevent 
scorching. E\en old chicken prepared in this way and stewed a little longer will 
become tender. 



STEWED CHICKEN 

Cut a chicken in pieces, put in pot with enough water to cover, boil slowly '2 hour, 
add 2 cups potatoes cut in quarters, season w ith salt and pepper, ? bay lea\es and 
b whole allspice; when chicken is tender, thicken with 1 heaping tablespoon flour 
moistened w ith watei" and boil 5 minutes. 



5 



CF^ICKEN POT PIE 

Line a small dish with rich biscuit dough, leaving a round piece about '4 inch 
thick large enough to cox'cr the top, cutting several small slits in it. After lining 
the dish, dust dough with flour, it will not so easily become soggy. 

Cut chicken into pieces, also cut in small pieces about one pound of pork. Lay 
the meat crosswise so that the pork and chicken alternate. Sprinkle with salt, 
dust with I tablespoon flour and cover with dough. Put in hot oven so dough 
bakes for about 10 minutes, then add i cup of water through slits in top of crust; 
use a small funnel for this. Bake in hot oven '2 hour, then 2 hours longer in \ei'y 
moderate o\en. About '2 hour before pie is done, add ^4 cup ol milk. 



( 



CHICKEN AND DUMPLINGS 

Cut chicken in pieces, sprinkle with salt and put in pan with 1 tablespoon butter; 
toss until all parts are steamed and slightly browned, then sprinkle w ith 1 tablespoon 
flour and pour on enough hot water to almost cover. Cover pot tightly and boil 
slowly until chicken is tender; when tender remove chicken to platter and add 
yi cup of milk to the broth, in which drop the dumplings by spoonfuls, keep pan 
or pot closely co\ered to keep in steam and boil for 10 minutes. 

Dumplings : Sift together i cup of flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and i tea- 
spoon salt; mi.x with this i tablespoon butter, then add 34 cup of cold milk and 
beat a few minutes with fork. 



X22^ 




>c><: 



^ 




CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Cut up chicken an^l lay it in cold water until the blood is extracted. Into a hot 
pan put I rounding tablespoon butter and one onion chopped fine and let it get 
soft, but not brown, when soft, add the chicken, season with white pepper and salt, 
add I tablespoon flour and a little finel\- chopped parsley. co\er and cook slowly 
for 1 5 minutes, then add i cups beef broth, cover and cook slowh' until done. 
When ready to serve lay the chicken on a hot dish, stir into the gravy the well 
beaten yolk of i egg and pour immediately over the chicken; serve hot. 

BROILED CHICKEN 

Split a spring chicken through the back, pound flat and put in the broiler; broil 
over hot coals, turning and basting often with butter, season with pepper and salt. 
Stew the heart, liver and gizzard, season with chopped celery or celery salt, add 
2 tablespoons butter or drippings from chicken, thicken with i tablespoon flour 
moistened with a little water. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Grind I ^2 cups of the meat of cold cooked chicken and add '■, cup ground cooked 
pork. Make a thick paste by blending i tablespoons floui- and i rounding table- 
spoon butter until smooth, add '2 cup milk and boil, then add chicken and pork. 
Work this mi.xture for 5 minutes over a low fire with a spoon, seasoning with 1^ 
small finely chopped onion, '2 teaspoon salt and 's teaspoon red pepper. Allow 
to cool, then shape and dip in beaten egg and fine bread crumbs, then again in egg, 
and fry in about 32 cup hot lard until a light brown color. 

ROAST DUCK— Tame 

Clean and fill with the kind of stuffing desired, sew shut, tie wings and legs close to 
body; rub with salt and cornstarch and place in roasting pan with i cup water 
to baste, roast I'i to 2 hours until tender, baste frequently, turning duck to 
brown on all sides. Stew the heart, liver and gizzard with a small onion, chop 
and mi.x with the drippings, thicken with brow ned flour, season with salt and pepper. 
The heart, liver and gizzard may be used for filling, as follows: Chop all very fine 
with I2 onion, fry slowly for 5 minutes in 1 tablespoon each butter and bacon 
drippings, add 2 cups moistened stale bread, i beaten egg, season with salt, pepper 
and a little nutmeg; mix well. 

LEFT-OVER ROAST DUCK 
Prepare same as roast chicken. 




»c 





>D< 



i 




DUCK — Fried German Style 

Clean and cut duck in pieces and lay in cold v\ater with a little salt for about an 
hour to draw out blood, then drain. Place pieces in roasting pan with i cup 
water, place pan in oven, turn pieces several times until each piece is nicely browned. 

Brown 2 rounding tablespoons flour in a skillet, add 1 tablespoon butter and 2 
cups water, rub smooth, then add small chopped onion and season with salt and 
pepper. When well mi.xed, pour over duck in roasting pan, put in oven and stew 
till tender; baste pieces frequentK with gra\\ to prevent scorching. 

When prepared in this manner, a cluck which is not young can be stewed until 
perfectly tender. 

ROAST GOOSE 

Clean and fill w ith the kind of stuffing desired, sew shut, tie wings and legs close 
to body; lub with salt and cornstarch and place in roasting pan with 2 cups water, 
cover with another pan or lid and roast for an hour, then remove lid and bake for 
I '2 hours longer, basting often. Do not add more water unless there is not enough 
drippings to baste with. Stew heart, liver and gizzard with a small onion, chop 
fine and mix with the drippings, thicken with browned flour, season with salt and 
pepper. The heart, liver and gizzard may be used for filling, as follows: Chop 
all very fine with a small onion, fry slowly for 5 minutes in i tablespoon each butter 
and bacon drippings, add 2 cups moistened stale bread, i beaten egg, season with 
salt, pepper and a little nutmeg; mix well. 

LEFT-OVER ROAST GOOSE 
Prepare same as chicken. 

Should the goose when first roasted have proven old and tough, it can be 
prepared as above for the next meal and be stev,ed until perfectly tender; in such 
cases make a larger amount of gra\-y, so as to ha\'e sufficient quantity to baste 
frequently while stewing. 

ROAST TURKEY 

Clean and fill with the kind of stuffing desired, sew shut, tie wings and legs close to 
body; rub with butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper and place in roasting pan 
with a cup oi water and 1 rounding tablespoon butter to baste with. Cover with 
another pan or lid for ?4 of an hour, then remove lid and roast 2 hours or until 
tender, basting frequently. Stew the heart, liver and gizzard and a small onion, 
chop them and mix w ith the drippings, thicken with browned flour, season with 
salt and pepper. The heart, liver and gizzard may be used for filling, as follows: 
Chop all very fine with a small onion, fry slowly for 5 minutes in i tablespoon each 
butter and bacon drippings, add 2 cups moistened stale bread, 1 beaten egg, season 
with salt, pepper and a little nutmeg; mix well. 





^ 



) 



rssr 



LEFT-OVER ROAST TURKEY 
May be served cold or can be prepared same as chicken. 

YOUNG OR SPRING TURKEY 

Spring turkeys can be prepared the same as chicken, in all the various ways. 



GUINEA FOWL 



avor of the 



Guinea fowl are often serxed in lieu of prairie chicken, haxing the 
wild fow I, They should ne\'er be picked, but always skinned. 

Slash the outer skin, crossw ise, just back of the legs underneath the bird, then by 
slipping the fingers under the skin to get a firm hold, it can be readih' stripped oft. 



FRIED GUINEA FOWL 



Same recipe as chicken. 



GUINEA FOWL — I-ried German Style 
Same recipe as chicken. 

QUAIL 

Clean, split, then mash flat, season with salt and pepper and fry nice golden brown, 
using plenty butter. 



5 



WILD DUCK 

If there is a fishy odor to be detected when cleaned, place a large carrot in the 
duck and parboil about 15 minutes, then throw away the carrot and let the duck 
cool before filling. 

Celery stuffing is considered the proper thing with wild duck. 

ROAST WILD DUCK 

Fill w ith the kind of stuffing desired, sew shut, tie wings and legs close to the body; 
rub with f-iutter and place m roasting pan with i cup water to baste, roast until 
tender, basting very frequently. Stew the heart, liver and gizzard with a small 
onion, chop them and mi.x with drippings, thicken with browned flour, season 
with salt, pepper and butter; serve in sauce tureen. Cranberry sauce or currant 
jelly are proper w ith w ild duck. 



£2L 



120 



rnr 



BROILED WILD DUCK 

Split the duck, take out the breasttene. crack the hacktene and pound so it will 
lie flat; season with salt and pepper and put it in the broiler over a quick fire; 
turn often to keep from scorching, broil for 15 minutes; then lay in pan, butter 
well and sprinkle with celery salt; cover closely and keep hot till served. 



i 



WILD DUCK — Fried German Style 
Same recipe as for chicken. 

RABBIT— Fried 

Clean and wash 1 rabbit carefully, picking off all hairs. Cut into pieces and 
lardon the legs and back with sti'ips of ham or bacon fat or salt pork; this keeps 
the rabbit from getting dry when fried. Dust the pieces with salt and flour and 
fry in i tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lard and i tablespoon ham or bacon fat 
until brown. Then pour '2 cup water on and let it simmer 10 minutes longer. 
Make gravy as for chicken. If rabbit is small and young it does not require as 
long a time to fry as a larger or older one. 



5 



FRIED RABBIT— GERM.4N Style 

Cut I rabbit in pieces, place in roasting pan with enough butter and lard (equal 
parts) to keep the rabbit from sticking; turn several times till each piece is nicely 
browned. 

Brown 2 heaping tablespoons flour in a skillet, add i tablespoon butter and 2 
cups water, rub smooth, then add small chopped onion and season with salt and 
pepper. When well mixed pour over rabbit in roasting pan, put in oven and 
stew till tender; baste frequcntK' with gra\y to prevent scorching. 



A 



SOUR RABBIT— Haasenpfeffer 

Cut I rabbit in pieces, place in roasting pan with 1 cups water, put in o\en and 
brown. In a skillet brown i heaping tablespoon flour in '■> cup drippings (ham or 
bacon) ; in this fry i sliced small onion, then stir into this 2 cups water, season with 
salt and pepper, add 2 tablespoons catsup, 3 bay leaves, 12 whole allspice and 
vinegar to suit taste; pour o\er rabbit, put back in the oven and cook until rabbit 
is tender. 



^Sk. 



ii-^'-^- 



f 






4* 



-§- — 



•5- 



-• -!>.• 



J- 






f 






■^•ISI 



f 



+ 



"£v 



4* 



i 



E\ 



^- 



-5- 



•J- 



-^ 






i 






eisi 




»: 



STEWED RABBIT 

Cut I rabbit in pieces, put in pot with water enough to cover, boil slowly '2 hour, 
add 2 cups potatoes cut in quarters, season with salt and pepper, 3 bay leaves and 
6 whole allspice; when rabbit is tender thicken the gravy with i heaping tablespoon 
flour moistened with water and boil about 15 minutes longer. 

-Ml poultry and meats can be stewed this way if cut in pieces; especially fine for 
mutton stew. 

SQUIRREL 

Can be prepared the same as rabbit, cither sour, stewed, fried or German st\le. 






»z 




^ 



124 





Buy your vegetables as fresh as possible; never accept any that are even slightly 
decayed. 

Vegetables if droopy, though not wilted, can be revixcLl b\- putting in cold water 
for >2 hour, then in a wet cloth and on ice or in a cool place. 

Always wash thoroughly before preparing; after vegetables have been prepared 
for cooking the\- should be put in cold water. The water should usually be salted; 
boil vegetables until tender, though boiling too long makes corn and asparagus 
tough. Old potatoes are improved by soaking in water. Lettuce can be cleaned 
a day ahead, if kept in tightly covered pan in ice box or cool place. Vegetables 
will keep nicely if wrapped in wet cloths and put near ice or in a very cool place; 
celery especially becomes crisp if cleaned and wrapped in wet cloths and put 
near ice. 

Parsley washed clean and put in glass jars tightly covered and placed in a cool 
place will keep fresh for a week. Vegetables such as parsnips, asparagus, oyster 
plant, turnips, etc., ma\- be buried in dry sand or in a bo.x of earth. 

Keep potatoes in a cool, dry place. 

Tomatoes can be peeled easily by first gently scraping all over with edge of a 
knife, then peeling comes off same as if dipped in boiling water. A sharp thin 
knife peels tomatoes best. Never scald tomatoes that are to be used for slicing; 
they lose their firmness. 

Strawberries put into screw-top jars, sealed air tight and kept in the ice box or a 
cool place will keep fresh from ^ to 4 da\'s; if left in the boxes they are apt to sour 
quickly. 

Rubbing potatoes with a thin coating of lard before baking will make the peeling, 
when done, as thin as that of boiled potatoes. 

Save all celery tops, dry and keep them in tightly co\ered jar, to be used fo 
soup. 



^ 



>c< 





127 



TSST 



HOW TO C00i\ VEGETABLES 

A knowledge of the composition of a X'egetable furnishes the key to the manner 
in which it is to be treated, though protein, sugar, fat, mineral matter and water 
are all combined in it. In some vegetables the starch is found in the cellulose or 
woody tissue, but in whatever form it may occur, starch must be thoroughly cooked 
or it is unwholesome. 



Vegetables like lettuce, endive, celery, tomatoes, cucumbers and small quickly 
grown radishes contain only a slight trace of starch. They are composed largely 
of water and mineral salts, most of which would be lost during cooking. These 
vegetables, it is true, might be exempt from cooking, save for the sake of variety. 
If cooked, no more water should be used than can be served with them and the 
cooking should be at a gentle simmer. 



Vegetables containing mostly protein and sugar with some starch, such as 
green peas and asparagus, require cooking on account of the starch, but to retain 
the sugar and other compounds the cooking should be done without violent 
boiling and with a small measure of water, since the water should form part of the 
finished dish. The same is true of spinach, mustard greens, etc. 



Vegetables with the starch in cellulose, such as parsnips, oyster plant, carrots 
and turnips, contain but little starch other than that found in their cellulose 
structure, this fb:r, like animal fiber, is hardened by heat, and cooking should 
not be carried on at a temperature higher than the boiling point of water; this is 
accomplished by gentle boiling in an uncovered pot. The cooking should be 
prolonged until the fiber- is tender, but not longer. 



Vegetables with much free starch, like potatoes, also breakfast cereals, rice, 
macaroni, noodles and other pastes used as vegetables, should be cooked at a 
uniform temperature. To cook to perfection, keep the water just at the boiling 
point and the pot uncovered until done. 



When to Use a Large Quantity of Water 

Some varieties of onions strongly flavored and all members of the cabbage family 
require a large quantity of water when cooking; it insures a more delicate flax'or. 



i 



jssi. 



rnr 



n 



When to Use Salt or Soda 

Hard water has a tendency to harden cellulose or woody fiber and thus keep sweet 
juices or other \aluable compounds within the articles cooked; soft water acts in 
the opposite way. Salt added to water makes it hard, raises the boiling point 
and intensifies the color of green vegetables. Soda softens water and causes green 
vegetables to assume a faded look. As the appearance of food has much to do 
with our taste or distaste, certainly then, for aesthetic reasons, the use of salt in 
the cooking of green vegetables would be advisable; again, as green vegetables 
contain little woody tissue, but often sugar that we wish to retain, they should be 
cooked in salt water. Generally salt should be added to the water in which all 
vegetables, except those containing much cellulose, are to be cooked. Potatoes 
and onions never taste just right unless the water in which the\' ha\e been cooked 
was salted. 

A teaspoon of salt to each quart of water will be found about right. 

Soft water is called for when the cellulose structure of dried peas, beans, etc., 
is to be made tender. If such water be not available, ^2 teaspoon of bicarbonate 
of soda (baking soda) added to each quart of water in which the \egetables are 
to be cooked will soften the water. 

^ BOILED POTATOES j 

^ Peel potatoes very thin, removing eyes, etc., put into pot with enough water to Zi 

W cover, add i teaspoon salt to each quart of water and cook slowly from 25 to 40 ' ^ 

minutes until done. Stick with fork; if easily pierced, they are done. Pour the 

water off, sprinkle over about i level tablespoon of salt, place over low flame and 

shake four or five times or until potatoes look mealy. Cover partly with a lid; 

or, better still, a cloth, and remo\e to back of stove, if it is not con\'enient to serve 

at once. 

Potatoes are best served immediateh' after being cooked; standing any length 

of time spoils them. 

Unless potatoes are very young, pare and lay in cold water an hour or more 

before using to make them crisp. New potatoes should be scrubbed or scraped 

instead of peeled. 

Good potatoes, properly cooked, are mealy; no matter how good they may be, 

il cooked in simmering water they will become water-soaked and sogg\'. If 

potatoes are cooked in furiously boiling water the outside becomes soft and washes 

away, while there is a "bone" in the center. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Wash cai-cfull\', cut a small slice from each end, rub the potato with thin coating 
of fat, lay in the oven, turning them once during baking. Small potatoes bake 
in 50 to 35 minutes; large potatoes take from 45 minutes to an hour. 



xssau 



9 



•J- 



m 



"ST 



^- 



-$- 



-y 



-^ 






f 






9 



i 



4* 






<- 



-J- 



•5- 



•^ 



f 



f 







>c< 



^ 




POTATOES ON HALF SHELL 

Bake large potatoes until they are soft, then cut in half lengthwise, scoop out the 
center into a howl, mash and season with salt, pepper, butter and cream; beat 
\ery hard until light. Put mi.xture back into shells and brown in a \ery hot oven 
or under gas. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

Wash potatoes, but do not cut the ends off before putting into oven. Bake ? 
large potatoes until soft, then cut a slice off the top, scoop out the potatoes, mash 
and add x^ cup of milk and a goodly portion of minced, boiled or fried ham or 
bacon and a beaten egg. Mix well, place mixture in potato and bake lo to 15 
minutes longer. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Peel and boil potatoes until done. Drain and steam for a minute after adding 
salt, then mash with potato masher. When free from lumps, add a generous 
lump of butter and milk enough to moisten. Beat \'igorously for 5 minutes to make 
them white and creamy. A pinch of soda will make them very creamy, but if 
soda is used they must be ser\ed at once. 

POTATOES WITH JACKETS OX 

Wash potatoes carefully and boil until done in salted water, then drain and 
steam dry. 

Left-over boiled potatoes with jackets can be used for frying or potato salad, 
as this is the pt'oper way to prepare them for those dishes. 

GERMAN FRIED POTATOES 

RemoN'e skins from potatoes cooked in jackets and slice in round pieces. For 2 
cups of potatoes use i rounding tablespoon of lard and i tablespoon ham or bacon 
drippings. Have fat very hot in a skillet, put potatoes in it and remove to cooler 
part of stove or smaller flame, sprinkling 1 teaspoon of salt and ]4 teaspoon pepper 
over them, and when nearly done, add li onion cut fine. Constantly toss with an 
egg turner while frying until slightly browned. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Peel potatoes, cut into strips and lay in cold water an hour or more before using. 
When ready to use, dry them and drop into deep sizzling fat. The fat should 
be hot enough to brown them quickly, when they will rise to the surface, as they 
w ill not rise until done. Remove with a skimmer when thev rise. 




»c 





>c< 



s 




SARATOGA CHIPS 

Peel potatoes and cut in thin slices; throw into ice water for 20 minutes, dry with 
clean napkin and drop into boiling lard; when light brown take out with a skimmer, 
drain on brown paper and sprinkle a little fine salt over them. 



POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Dice or slice 2 cups of cooked potatoes and place in a buttered baking dish; pour 
over them a thin sauce made of 2 rounding tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 
1 teaspoon salt, 's teaspoon pepper, H teaspoon celery salt, i'.t cups of hot milk. 
I tablespoon chopped or grated cheese. 

Cover the top with bread crumbs moistened with melted butter. 

Bake in a moderately hot o\en until well browned. If raw potatoes are used 
they will require longer baking than when cooked potatoes are used. 



LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Put I rounding tablespoon butter or drippings into frying pan; when melted, add 
small finely chopped onion, cook 2 or 3 minutes, then add 3 cups sliced cold boiled 
potatoes, season well with pepper and salt; fry a nice brown. 

Just before serving, add i teaspoon finely chopped parsle\' and a few drops of 
lemon juice. 



BUTTERED POTATOES 

Use very small new potatoes or scoop balls out of old potatoes, boil and drain. 
For 2 cups of potatoes use i rounding tablespoon butter, i teaspoon salt, dust 
with cayenne pepper, toss the potatoes in this over a hot flame until the butter 
has been absorbed and the potatoes look brown. 
This is good to serve with fish or cold meats. 



O'REILLY POTATOES 

Have ready 2 cups of cold cooked potatoes chopped to the size ol small beans. 
I cup of canned tomatoes boiled to a thick pulp, i green pepper free from seeds 
and minced fine. ':> small onion minced. 2 tablespoons drippings or butter. Heat 
the fat in a skillet and cook the onion and pepper until soft, then add the potatoes 
and tomatoes, salt to taste and add more pepper if needed; cook until dry and 
serve with fish or cold meat. 




XX. 




i 



133 




13S 



TSST 



POTATO CROQUETTES 

W Season 2 cups of cooked masliecl potatoes more highly than usual, with a little 

onion juice and chopped parsley added. Shape into balls, dip balls into beaten 
egg. then roll in bread crumbs and brown in deep hot fat. When served with 
fish, sprinkle a little grated cheese over them as soon as removed from the hot fat. 



GERMAN POTATO SALAD 

Peel and slice 1 quait potatoes w hich ha\ c been cooked. While still warm, sprinkle 
with salt and pour over them J-^ cup of hot water, add 1 tablespoon of celery salt 
and 32 small onion cut very fine. Then pour over the following dressing; Try out 
fat bacon, enough to make 1,3 cup of drippings, remove the brown cracklings and 
to the fat add 2 tablespoons of flour, '2 teaspoon of salt, I4 teaspoon pepper and 
I tablespoon sugar; heat until it bubbles (but do not let it brown), then add 1^ 
cup vinegar and '2 cup of water. Let this come to a boil and pour while hot over 
the potatoes. More vinegar can be added if salad is not sour enough. Let the 
potatoes stand in this dressing at least an hour. Do not put in ice bo.x; it is better 
served a little warm. 



MA^'ONNAISE POTATO SALAD 

Peel cooked potatoes and slice or dice them. For each quart of potatoes while 
still warm, pour over the following mustard mayonnaise dressing; Put the yolks 
of 2 eggs in very cold plate or bowl, beat until light, add 3.2 teaspoon salt, 32 tea- 
spoon dry ground mustard, i rounding teaspoon celery salt, a dash of cayenne 
pepper, i teaspoon powdered sugar and 1 teaspoon of the white of egg to prevent 
curdling, then beat again until light. Now melt 2 rounding tablespoons of butter 
(or use I4 cup olive oil) and add this to the egg mixture, drop by drop, stirring 
vigorously all the while. When the mixture gets too stiff to stir, add a few drops 
of lemon juice or vinegar, then the butter or oil again, drop by drop, until you have 
used 2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice and all the butter or oil. If too thick 
when ready to use. a few drops of vinegar may be used to thin it. Never put 
mayonnaise on a salad until the last moment before serving. 

If there is a tendency to curdle, put on ice for a few minutes and then stir hard. 
The secret of success in making this dressing is vigorous beating and a good quality 
of vinegar. 

If liked, the celery salt can be omitted in the dressing and instead i cup of 
finely chopped celery and 2 chopped hard boiled eggs mi.xed with the warm potatoes 
before the dressing is poured over. 

If mixed while the potatoes are still lukewarm, the potatoes absorb the 
seasonings, etc., better, making a much tastier salad. 



5 



JSSk. 



ISST 



POTATOES SCALLOPED WITH EGG 

Slice ani.1 mix together : cLips of cold hoilecl potatoes and 3 hard boiled eggs. Pre- 
pare 1I2 cups thin white sauce made as for au gratin potatoes. Arrange in a 
buttered baking dish, season each layer with the sauce, cover the top with buttered 
bread crumbs and grated cheese. Bake 10 minutes in a hot oven. 



GERMAN POTATO DUMPLINGS 

Grate or put through a fruit press enough coLI cooked potatoes to make 2 cups. 
Fry I cup tiny cubes of stale bread in hot buttci' until light brown, then mix them 
with the potatoes ; season with 'i teaspoon salt, '4 teaspoon pepper and 34 teaspoon 
ground nutmeg, add the beaten yolk of 2 eggs, i cup flour, and lastly, the beaten 
white of the egg. Mix well with a fork, shape into small balls and boil in salted 
water in a tightly covered pot about 20 to 25 minutes; then lift with skimmer into 
a dish and pour over them melted butter in which '4 minced onion has been cooked. 
These are delicious with sour roast beef. 



SOUTHERN SWEET POTATOES 

Cut cold cooked sweet potatoes in thick slices, lay in deeply buttered baking dish, 
dust with salt and pepper, sprinkle with sugar and dot with butter; pour o\'er 
enough milk to nearlv cover them and bake in a moderate o\'en for i hour. 



GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Peel and wash b or 7 sweet potatoes and let them remain in water i hour. In a 
pot heat I rounding tablespoon lard and 1 teaspoon butter and when hot drop in the 
sweet potatoes. Toss them about with a fork until all ha\e touched the fat and 
look cloudy, then sprinkle with salt and pour over enough water to half cover 
them. Put on a tight lid and boil for '2 hour; remove the lid and let all the water 
boil off. Then add '2 cup of sugar and as sweet potatoes brown turn them so as 
to brown on all sides. When all are brown and glassy looking, place them in a 
dish and to the sugar and grease in the pot add I4 cup of water; let this boil up 
good and pour over the potatoes. 



DR^' NAV^' BEANS 

Soak I cup beans over night in plenty water. In the morning put them on to 
cook in fresh water and boil very slowly for i ' ■> hours w ith a piece of ham or bacon; 
season with pepper and salt. 



« 



£SL 



137 



f 






<~ 



-J- — 



-s- 



-5- 



•«!« 

SS 
w 



^ 






@i0 



138 




139 




»: 




BOILED BEANS AND TOMATO SAUCE 

Soak and cook i cup dry navy heans as above, hut use less water and boil nearly 
dry. Make sauce as follows: Cook i cup canned br raw tomatoes with a pinch 
of soda and rub through strainer, then add i teaspoon butter, '2 teaspoon chili 
powder and '4 finely chopped onion, thicken with i tablespoon flour moistened 
with water. Mix the sauce with the beans and boil together slowly for 1 'i minutes. 

BAKED BEANS 

Soak I cup clry navy beans over night in plenty water; boil with piece of ham fat 
(or bacon rind thoroughly cleaned) and '4 onion until beans are tender and nearly 
dry. Remove ham fat or bacon rind and pour beans into a baking dish. Add 
1 2 cup molasses, i teaspoon table sauce, 4 tablespoons catsup (or i cup of tomatoes) 
and place a small piece of salt pork or a sausage among beans and hake 3 or 4 
hours or longer. 

These can be baked on baking day or when o\en is used for a long time; other- 
wise too much fire is needed just for the beans alone. 

Put a lid over the beans while baking until nearly done, then remox'e the lid 
and brown. 

KIDNEY BEANS 

Soak I cup of kidney beans in plenty of water o\er night and boil with a pinch of 
soda for 5 minutes, then pour off water and put on to boil in fresh water. Cook 
with them a piece of fat brisket for about O-, hours, then add '2 can tomatoes 
or 3 tablespoons catsup, a dash of red pepper, i teaspoon celery salt, J4 onion and 
I teaspoon of tablesauce. Boil '2 hour longer. 

DRY BUTTERBEANS 

Soak 1 cup butterbeans over night in plenty water. In the morning put them on 
to cook with small piece of pork or ham in water enough to cover well and boil 
for I hour, very slowly. Cut i large potato (peeled) into dice, boil with beans 
until potatoes are soft, add i peeled apple cut into very thin slices; let this boil 
until done, then add i tablespoon vinegar and 2 tablespoons sugar. Do not add 
vinegar if apple is very sour. Add salt, if cooked with Iresh pork, but not if cooked 
with ham, as that is usually salty enough. 

FRESH BEANS— Green or Wax 

String the beans and break or cut into small pieces. Boil a piece of bacon or ham 
for ,'2 hour, then add the heans and cook for half an hour longer or until beans 
are tender. Potatoes cut into quarters can also be added. When done, sprinkle 
with pepper and thicken with flour. 




»c 




140 




>c< 



^ 




SOUR BEANS 

Left-over beans (prepared as in foregoing recipe j make a palatable cold dish 
when mixed with a little bacon drippings, a raw sliced onion and enough vinegar 
to suit taste. 

COLD BEAN SALAD 

String the beans, cook until tender, drain and let cool. Cut '2 onion \ery fine, 
add to beans and pour over German salad dressing. 
Left-o\'er green or wax beans can be used. 



HOT BEAN SALAD 

String beans, cook until tender and drain. Fry out enough bacon or ham tat to 
make ^ cup fat, lea\e the cracklings, acid i rounding tablespoon flour, '2 small 
onion cut fine, cook until it bubbles, but do not brown, add 3 tablespoons vinegar, 
34 cup water, 3 tablespoons sugar and i teaspoon salt. Boil for 15 minutes in 
this mixture; serve as salad or hot x'egetable. 



CANNED STRING OR WAX BEANS 

String I can beans, put in pot w ith enough water to cover, season with pepper 
and salt, add 1 teaspoon butter oi' drippings and boil about 10 minutes. 



DRIED GREEN PEAS 

Soak I cup peas over night in plenty water. In the morning put them on to cook 
in fresh water and boil very slowly for 1I2 hours, with a piece of ham or bacon; 
season with pepper and salt. 



YELLOW SPLIT PEAS 

Soak I eup split peas over night in plenty water, put on with salted water and 
cook until mashy looking. Put through a colander and add 1.2 ciip of water that 
the peas were cooked in and '2 cup hot milk. 

Fry out '■, cup ham or bacon fat with I4 onion; leave cracklings in; add i tea- 
spoon butter and a dash of red pepper. Pour this over the strained peas, mix all 
well and serve. 

Sauer kraut and peas as abo\e are especially good served with boiled or roasted 
beef. 




i 



»c 




mpr^ ^^^^ss 



^b^ \ s^^^ 



TSST 



FRESH PEAS 

Shell peas, co\ cr w ith cold \vater and skim. Cook until soft, then add salt, pepper 
and butter. If liked can he thickened with flour moistened with water. A few- 
carrots cut fine and cooked with peas will improxe the flavor. When peas are 
done they may he drained and milk or broth added, seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter. If the pods are boiled first and this liquor, strained off and cooled, is used 
instead of water to boil the peas in, it will add to the fla\'or of the peas. 



CANNED PEAS 

Strain i can peas, put in pot with enough water to cover, season with pepper and 
salt, add I teaspoon butter and boil about lo minutes. 



c:reamed canned peas 

Same as above but boiled with milk instead of water, and thickened with flour 
moistened with water. 



FRESH OR CANNED PEAS AND DUMPLINGS 

Cook the peas until done, then season with salt, pepper and butter; add the dump- 
lings by spoonsful and cook slowly for 15 minutes longer in covered pot. 

Dumplings: Boil 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon butter, i teaspoon salt, i tablespoon 
sugar, >s teaspoon nutmeg; when boiling sift in '2 cup flour, work the flour into 
the milk (o\-er a low flame) until it becomes very thick and smooth; steam a 
few minutes longer, then add the beaten yolk of i egg and work that into the 
mixture until smooth. Remove from fire and add the stiffly beaten white of the 
egg and work again till smooth. 



CANNED CORN. 

To I can corn add '■) cup milk, i teaspoon butter, season with salt and pepper, 
boil slowly for 10 minutes, thicken with 3-2 teaspoon corn starch dissolved in 
tablespoon water. 



BAKED CORN 
Cut down middle of grains in each row of '2 dozen ears of corn and cut from cob. 



add I cup of boiling milk, 2 tablespoons of butter, then bake J; 
with salt and pepper. 



hour. Season 



BA 



^g* 



^GST 



CORN OYSTERS OR FRITTERS 

Cut enough coi"n from cob to make a pint or use i can corn, add 2 beaten eggs, 
beat well and season to taste with salt and pepper, thicken to heavy batter with 
flour moistened with water. Drop with tablespoon and fry with plenty butter 
in a hot skillet, turning when browned. If the skillet is heated just right the 
"oysters" will be light. It should not be too hot or the corn will not cook, nor too 
cool or the fat will be absorbed and the corn become heavy and soggy. 

Young housekeepers an.xious to make good cooks of themselves should master 
this matter of heating an>' fat for fi'ving, exactly right; much depends upon it, 

SUCCOTASH 

Boil 2 cups of tomatoes with i cup of fresh corn until tender, add i tablespoon of 
butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, i-^ teaspoon salt and '4 teaspoon pepper, thicken with 
I teaspoon flour moistened w/ith water, 

B.-XKED TOMATOES 

Canned tomatoes can be used for this dish; mix i cup tomatoes with i cup bread 
ci'umbs, add i rounding tablespoon butter, i^' fineh' chopped onion, season well 
^ with salt and pepper, put in dish and bake '■_. hoLir, 

§ ■ WHOLE BAKED TOMATOES i ^ 

Take smooth round tomatoes, slice off the top and take out all the inside with a 
spoon. Put the juice and pulp in a bowl, mix with bread crumbs, finely chopped 
parsley, minced ham and butter, season with salt and pepper, make into a stuffing 
with which fill each tomato. Put a little piece of butter and i teaspoon bread 
crumbs on each one, cover with the sliced off top, put in a pan and bake i hour. 
If they still seem watery bake a little longer. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Take off skins by pouring boiling water over them; cut them up rejecting the hard 
and unripe portions; stew an hour and then add pepper and salt, a little sugar and 
butter if desired. Pour over small pieces toasted bread and serve, 

TURNIPS 



f^ 



Peel turnips and cook until tender, then drain and mash them, add milk to moisten, 
season with butter, salt, pepper and a little sugar. If liked, add a little milk 
when done, or thicken with flour moistened with milk. Turnips may be cooked 
with breast, shoulder or neck of lamb; do not use butter when so cooked, there is 
enough fat in the lamb. 



XSSi. 



oa 



f 









<- 



<- 



-h 



-y 



m 

B 

fj? 



f 






In 

i 






4- 



-5- 






■f 



4* 
C8' 



•i- 



-i- 






147 




>c< 



^ 




BOILED PARSNIPS 

if >oung scrape, if old peel; boil in salted water until very tender. Mash and 
season with butter, pepper and salt, add a little flour and i well beaten egg. Mix 
well and ser\'e or form into small balls and fr\- in hot lard. 



FRIED PARSNIPS 

Peel and boil until tender, cut in thick slices lengthwise. Dredge with flour and 
fry in hot lard. Salt and pepper to taste, butter well and serve hot. 



I-RIED EGG PLANT 

Peel I egg plant, slice 14-inch thick and soak 1 hour in salt water. Make batter 
of 2 beaten eggs, i cup flour and '2 cup milk. Dip sliced egg plant in this batter 
and fry slowly in skillet with plenty of butter until brown on both sides. Serve 
hot. Delicious. 

OYSTER PLANT 

Scrape, cut into slanting pieces, season with salt and pepper, boil until tender, 
drain, and to the water left after boiling add 14 cup of milk and i tablespoon 
butter. Boil for i 5 minutes, thicken with Hour and milk, pour over oyster plant 
and serve. 

ASPARAGUS 

Peel asparagus, using a sharp knife, starting to peel at the top, gradually peeling 
thicker as your reach the butt end. 

Tie in bunches, boil in salted water until tender. Serve with a cream sauce, 
rich in butter, or serve on toast and pour over them melted butter to which has 
been added a few drops of lemon juice and i tablespoon of the water in which they 
were boiled. 

SPINACH 

Pick over }4 peck spinach and throw away all roots, stems and decayed leaves. 
Wash in several waters, first water salted, put in a kettle with i cup hot water, 
boil for 30 minutes, drain and chop fine. Into i cup water from which spinach 
has been taken, put i rounding tablespoon butter, then add 23 cup milk, i teaspoon 
salt, I2 teaspoon pepper and a grating of nutmeg. Put spinach with this and 
boil 30 minutes. Garnish with little cubes of bread browned in butter, or hard 
boiled eggs. Spinach may be cooked with piece of pork in lieu of butter. 




»z 





»c 



^ 




CAULIFLOWER 

Remove outside leaves and soak head down in salted water for ';; hoLir. Boil 
in salted water until tender, drain and serve with rich cream sauce or butter 
slightly browned. 

KALE 

Pick over '2 gallon kale and throw away all roots, stems and decayed leaves. Wash 
in several waters, first water salted, put in kettle with barely enough water to 
cover kale; boil this for 30 minutes, drain and chop fine, then return to water and 
cook with a piece of ham or bacon for 1 14 hours, adding a few raw potatoes cut in 
small pieces the last '2 hour. When potatoes are soft, mash them in small pieces 
with a spoon, add 'ij cup of milk, H teaspoon salt and '2 teaspoon pepper, boil 5 
minutes and serve. If still thin, thicken slightly with flour moistened with water. 



BOILED CABBAGE 

Remove outside leaves and cut head into quarters, throw away the tough stalk, 
cook in boiling water with a pinch of soda for 35 to 45 minutes with cover off. 
This prevents a disagreeable odor. Drain and serve with browned butter; or 
cook cabbage with corned beef and potatoes or pieces of pork. 



RED CABBAGE 

Remove outside leaves of i small head, cut in half, remove the coarse stalk and 
cut cabbage fine, as for slaw; in a pot put i rounding tablespoon of bacon drippings, 
heat for a few minutes (but do not have fat hot enough to fry), put in red cabbage 
and toss with a fork until thoroughly mixed with the fat, then sprinkle with salt, 
cover with water and boil 2 to 2' 2 hours. Then cut i apple fine and let it boil 
tender with cabbage (the apple can be omitted if wished). 

Add more water so there is '2 cup of liquid if the first water has cooked off too 
much, then add U cup vinegar, 3 tablespoons of sugar and '2 teaspoon pepper. 
Let this boil, then thicken slightly with flour moistened with water. 



COLD SLAW 

Cut 1 head of white cabbage very fine, sprinkle with salt and pepper to suit taste, 
mi.x with it i tablespoon melted butter, I4 cup vinegar and 2 tablespoons sugar, 
or beat the yolk of i egg, add to it 4 tablespoons of cream, i tablespoon sugar, 
li teaspoon celery salt and 2 tablespoons vinegar. Warm all slightly, pour over 
the cabbage and serve. 




i 



»z 




149 




150 




151 



PV 



lasT 



CUCUMBERS 

Peel 2 small cucLimhers, slice, sprinkle with salt and place in covered dish with 
cold water for i hour. Drain off all juice and water, place in serving dish with 
thin slices of onion. Ha\e on the table olive oil, vinegar, salt and pepper; allow 
each individual to season to taste. Sour cream mixed with vinegar improves 
taste of cucumbers. 

BEETS 
Boil I2 dozen beets until tender, drain, pour cold water over them and slip the 
skins ofl. Ser\e warm with melted butter and a few drops lemon juice. 

NOODLES AS VEGETABLES 

Make noodle dough same as noodles for soup, but cut in wide strips; boil in salted 
water about 15 minutes until tender; drain and pour over them a rich cream 
sauce; cover top with bread crumbs, browned in butter. Serve with stewed 
prunes, stewed dried peaches or apple sauce. Another way: Cut noodles fine, 
cook until tender and drain very dry; fry brown in butter and ham fat, cover top 
w ith bread crumbs browned in butter and serve. 



MACARONI 

BOILED MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI 

Boil I4 pound macaroni or spaghetti, broken in pieces, in 2 quarts salted water 
20 to 30 minutes; drain through colander and let cold water run o\er them. Return 
to pot in which it was cooked. Pour over it i cup of milk and thicken with 2 
tablespoons of flour, moistened with water. Let come to a boil and serve. 

MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI—Italian Style 

Macaroni or spaghetti served in the Italian style means simply boiled spaghetti, 
o\-er which a highly seasoned brown gravy is poured. The gravy is made as 
follows: Cut into small pieces some lean, juicy beef from the round and let 
simmer for i hour in a little water; add i sliced fried onion, strain and thicken with 
flour moistened with water, adding half a dozen chopped mushrooms. 
Grated cheese should always be served with this dish. 

BAKED MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI 

Boil '4 pound of macaroni or spaghetti, broken in pieces, in 2 quarts salted water 
A 20 to 30 minutes and drain. Place in baking dish and pour over it i cup of milk, 

1 tablespoon butter, thickened with 2 tablespoons flour moistened with water; 
bake i 5 minutes in oven and ser\'e. 



XS2i. 



Tssr 



MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI Wm 1 CHEESE 

Boil 1.4 pound macaroni or spaghetti in salted water until tender, then drain and 
put in buttered dish in layers, sprinkling each layer with grated cheese. Then 
pour over it white sauce made as follows: Boil 1 cup of milk, 2 tablespoons butter 
and I teaspoon salt, thicken with 2 tablespoons of flour, moistened with milk. 
Cover the top with bread crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. 



MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI W TIH TO.MATO SAUCE 

Boil '4 pound macaroni or spaghetti in salted water until tcndei', then drain and 
put in buttered dish in layers, sprinkling each la\er with grated cheese. Then 
pour over it a tomato sauce made as follows: Boil 2 cups of tomatoes, '4 onion, 
2 whole closes, 2 whole allspice, i slice lemon, i teaspoon salt, 'g teaspoon of red 
pepper and 2 tablespoons sugar; strain and add i tablespoon butter, then thicken 
with I teaspoon of cornstarch dissolved in i tablespoon of water. Bake 15 minutes 
in o\en and serve. 



5 



MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH HAM 

Boil I4 pound macaroni or spaghetti in salted water until tender and drain. Fry 
brown 1 small onion and 2 tablespoons of chopped ham, mix with macaroni and 
1) cup of tomato juice, season with salt and pepper and put in baking dish, co\er 
top with grated cheese and bake until brown. 



5 



MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH EGGS 

Mi.x 2 hard boiled eggs chopped fine with '4 pound of spaghetti boiled, season 
with salt and pepper and a little prepared mustard. Cover with buttered bread 
crumbs moistened with milk and brown in a quick oven. 



A 



MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI WITH 0^'STERS 

Boil I4 pound macaroni or spaghetti in salted water until it is quite tender and then 
drain. Scald 2 dozen oysters in their liquor and drain. Grease a baking dish 
with butter, put in a la\'er of the spaghetti and then a layer of oysters; season with 
salt and pepper and repeat the layers until all the material is used, finishing with 
a layer of spaghetti. Moisten 2 heaping tablespoons cornstarch with fresh milk 
and stir this into 2 cups scalded milk: when this has thickened, add 2 tablespoons 
melted butter. 

Pour this mixture over the layers in the dish, cover with 1 cup of bread crumbs 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and bake in a quick oven just long enough to brown 
the crumbs, about 10 minutes. 



jSSi, 



SI® 

f 



4* 



I 



'gv 



^- 



-^ 



-f 






w^ 






154 




>c< 



PEARS AND DUMPLINGS 

Peel pears and boil Lintil tender, then add sugar and lump of butter and grated 
nutmeg, boil 5 minutes longer, then remove the pears to a platter. Drop into the 
sweetened juice, dumplings made same as for peas, cook in a closely covered pot 
for 15 minutes; pour over the pears and serve at once. 




APPLE SAUCE 

Peel apples, cut in quarters and boil tender with 2 slices lemon. Mash through 
colander or fruit press, sweeten to taste and let simmer 5 minutes. Sprinkle with 
a little ground cinnamon when serving. 



^ 



STEWED DRIED LRU ITS 

Soak dried Iruit o\er night. In the morning cook slowly in enough water to cover, 
with slices of lemon or orange peel until fruit is tender, then sweeten to taste and 
thicken with a little cornstarch dissolved in water. Let simmer 5 minutes after 
adding cornstarch water, then cool. Dried apples should have slices of lemon 
and small pieces of stick cinnamon. 



^ 





»z 






Most all salads should be served cold and arranged as nicely and daintily as possible. 

FRUIT SALADS 

No. I. — Equal parts of apples finely chopped, oranges and bananas sliced and 
nuts cut fine. Serve with fruit mayonnaise. 

No. 2. — Cut grape fruit in half and sugar over night, take out seeds and remove 
pulp with spoon (do not get any of the skin, it is bitter). To the grape fruit add 
equal parts Maraschino cherries, sliced pineapple and sliced oranges. Serve w ith 
fruit salad mayonnaise. 

No. 3. — Cut grape fruit in half and sugar over night, take out seeds and remove 
pulp with a spoon (do not get any of the skin, it is very bitter), add equal parts 
seeded white grapes, sliced pineapple, oranges, bananas and peaches (fresh or 
canned) and nuts cut fine. Serve with fruit salad mayonnaise. 

No. 4. — Cut grape fruit in half and sugar over night, take out seeds and remove 
pulp with spoon (do not get any of the skin, it is very bitter), add sliced oranges 
and apricots (fresh or canned). Maraschino cherries, finely chopped apples and 
nuts. Chop apples just before serving; if chopped too long they will turn dark. 
Serve w ith fruit salad mayonnaise. 

Most any fruits will form a good combination, especially if served with rich 
dressing. Apples, if peeled in advance, should be placed in water, then they will 
not discolor easily. 

PEAR SALAD 

Peel and cut in half 3 pears, boil until tender. Mix 2 tablespoons of each, olive 
oil, vinegar and juice in which pears were boiled, soak the boiled pears in this for 
2 hours, then take out and place on crisp watercress, sprinkle with chopped pecans 
and serve with fruit salad mayonnaise. 



^ 



157 



izxxzk 



WF^^ 






I 



Wt£^^^ 



^^A1!3l 



■^ST 



5 



FISH SALAD 

Cut T, green peppers in half. remo\e the seeds and boil until tender. Serve with 
any kind of cold fish, garnishin" with watercress. 



EGG AND SARDINE SALAD 

Chop I stalk of celery with v\hites of 4 hard boiled eggs and place in salad bowl. 
Mix with this i teaspoon sardine oil and i teaspoon vinegar. Mash the yolks 
of the eggs and 4 sardines, season with salt and pepper and mi.x with enough cream 
to form a thick paste. Thin w ith \inegar and pour over the eggs and celery. 



COLUX'IBUS SALAD 

Cut 4 hard boiled eggs in halves, remove the yolks, mash and mix yolks with 
finely chopped meat, season with salt, pepper and lemon juice and add 1 tablespoon 
melted butter. Make into balls and refill the centers of v\-hites of eggs with the 
balls. 

Reunite the halves so as to appear like whole eggs. Cut a small piece from the 
end of each egg so it will stand on end. Serve with any dressing desired. 

The meat for this salad may be cooked tongue, chicken or ham. This salad is 
particularly adaptable to pretty garnishings. The eggs may be placed on crisp 
lettuce lea\es, making a decorative dish for the salad course. 



TOMATO SALAD WITH NUTS 

Peel fresh tomatoes, scoop out some of the center and fill with chopped celery and 
nuts. Place on lettuce leaves and pour over mustard mayonnaise dressing. Serve 
with salted crackers or hot buttered rolls. 



CHICKEN SALAD 

Boil I chicken with se\'eral pieces of celery, '4 onion, i tablespoon of salt and \i 
teaspoon pepper until chicken is very tender; then boil broth down until about 
il4 cups are left, strain and pour over the chicken that has been picked from the 
bones and cut fine. It is best to cut meat with kitchen scissors. 

Let this cool, then to every cup of chicken add lo cup of finely cut celery and i 
hard boiled egg cut fine. Moisten the whole with a little mustard mayonnaise, 
place salad by spoonfuls on lettuce leaves and put i tablespoon of mayonnaise on 
top; nuts cut fine improve this salad very much. 



X££L 



160 



THT 



TOMATOES AND CHICKEN SALAD 

Peel fresh tomatoes, scoop out the center and fill with chicken salad, 
crisp lettuce leaves with mustard mayonnaise dressing. 



Serve on 



CHEESE SALAD 

Grate ^2 pound of cheese. Make a paste of the yolk of i hard boiled egg and i 
tablespoon olive oil; add i teaspoon salt, the same each of sugar and prepared 
mustard, ^s teaspoon of cayenne and i tablespoon of best vinegar. Mi.x well and 
stir in the cheese. This may be served in crab shells as a course at luncheon. 



SAL.^D DRESSINGS 

A!wa>-s use a chilled plate or bowl when mixing mayonnaise. 



FRUIT SALAD MAYONNAISE 

Beat T, eggs until foamy, then add ''^ cup of sugar and beat 5 minutes, add ^'4 cup 
of vinegar and beat 5 minutes more, then put in a double boiler, add i rounding 
teaspoon of butter and beat constantly with egg beater until mi.xture thickens. 
It ought to be creamy when done. When cold and ready to serve add i cup or 
more whipped cream, to which may be added i teaspoon whiskey; it gives the 
dressing a better flavor. Vigorous and constant beating while mixing and boiling 
is the secret of this delicious dressing. 



5 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING WITH OIL 

Put the yolks of 2 eggs in very cold plate or bowl, beat until light, add '2 teaspoon 
salt, }2 teaspoon dry ground mustard, a dash of cayenne pepper, i teaspoon 
powdered sugar and i teaspoon of the white of egg (to prevent curdling), then beat 
again until light. Now add drop by drop to egg mixture. '4 cup olive oil (or use 
2 rounding tablespoons butter, melted), stirring vigorously all the while. When 
the mixture gets too stiff to stir add a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar, then 
the butter or oil again, drop by drop, until you have used 2 tablespoons vinegar 
or lemon juice and all the butter or oil. If too thick when read>' to use a few drops 
of vinegar may be used to thin it. 

Never put mayonnaise on a salad until the last moment before ser\ing. If 
there is a tendency to curdle put on ice for a few minutes and then stir hard. 

The secret of success in making this dressing is vigorous beating and a good 
quality of vinegar. 



£^ 




9 



i 



^- 



-5- 






i 



4- 



-4- 



-}- 



IS 




XX 



MUSTARD MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Beat 2 eggs until foam\', acid i tablespoon flour, i teaspoon of prepared mustard, 
34 teaspoon of salt and a pinch of red pepper, beat until well mixed. Boil i cup 
milk, then add milk very slowly to eggs, etc., beating all the time. Return all to 
fire in pot milk was boiled in. Heat yi cup of vinegar, I3 cup of water and i tea- 
spoon butter and add to other mixture. Beat constantly with egg beater until 
it comes to a boil, then cool. If it is not sour enough, add a few drops of lemon 
juice and beat. This also helps make it smooth if it looks a little curdled. Always 
use only the freshest of milk. 



FRENCH DRESSING 

Mix U teaspoon salt and H teaspoon pepper with 3 tablespoons olive oil, then add 
2 tablespoons vinegar. Mix until perfectly blended. Lemon juice may be used 
in place of vinegar. A teaspoon prepared mustard may be added if liked. 

GERMAN SALAD DRESSING 

Fry out 2 tablespoons bacon, remove cracklings, add to the warm grease 2 table- 
spoons of sugar, '2 teaspoon of flour and I3 cup of vinegar. Especially good on 
lettuce. Cut hard boiled eggs with lettuce. 




S 





»: 




164 




>c< 



CHEESE 

To keep cheese from dr\ing out, trim off rind and wrap in cloth dipped in vinegar 
and wrung dry, over that wrap oiled paper and keep in cool place. 

CHEESE TOAST 

Soak I tablespoon bread crumbs in 2 tablespoons cream, add i beaten egg, i 
tablespoon melted butter, i teaspoon prepared mustard and lastly ? ounces grated 
cheese. Beat all well together; spread on toast, brown in oven and serve. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

Cut I cup of cheese in small pieces, or if old grate it, add '2 cup of milk or cream 
and put in a pan over the fire; stir until the cheese is melted, then add i well beaten 
egg and stir for 5 minutes; season with salt, pepper and mustard to taste. Serve 
on buttered toast ; have your plates hot and eat immediately. 

Instead of the milk or cream, '2 cup ale or beer with '2 teaspoon melted butter 
may be used. 

GOLDEN BUCK 

Prepare same as Welsh rarebit, cover each piece of buttered toast with rarebit 
and place on top of each portion so covered a poached egg seasoned with salt 
and pepper. Serve hot, 

CHEESE FONDU 

Mi.\ well I egg beaten light, '2 cup cracker crumbs, '2 cup grated cheese, i cup 
of sweet milk, salt and pepper to taste. Bake in hot oven for 20 minutes. 





SANDWICHES 

If sandwiches are made several hours ahead, wrap in a damp cloth and keep in a 
cool place. Cut most of the crusts of bread away and either use for puddings 
or for bread crumbs. 

NEUFCHATEL SANDWICH 

Mix thoroughly with i roll of neufchatel cheese H cup chopped nuts (black 
walnuts are best), add salt and paprika to taste and 2 tablespoons cream. 
Spread between buttered pieces of rye bread or Boston brown bread. 



XX 




165 




166 



m^^^ 



^"^m 



Wt^ 



^^^•m 



167 



P3 «5ST 



5 



EGG SANDWICH 

Chop hard boiled eggs, not too fine, mi.x with mayonnaise dressing, spread on 
lettuce leaf and place between two thin slices of buttered bread. Dex'iled ham 
mixed with the eggs and mayonnaise is also good. 



SWISS CHEESE SANDWICH 

Have sw'iss cheese sliced thin and place betv\een thin slices of buttered rye bread 
and spread with a little mustard. 

CLUB SANDWICH 

Cut in good sized slices fried or boiled chicken, butter i large slice of white bread, 
place on it crisp young lettuce leaf, on this place the chicken and i slice of fried 
or boiled bacon, cut fine. Spread i tablespoon mustard mayonnaise over all 
and lastly lay on top a thin slice of toasted bread. Press together and cut in half 
or quarters with a sharp knife. A slice of fresh tomato placed on chicken improves 
the sandwich. 

SALAD SANDWICH 

Any kind of salad, such as chicken, lobster, shrimp, etc., makes a delicious sandwich 
when spread between thin slices of bread. 

HAM SANDWICH 

Sliced or ground boiled ham with mayonnaise and spread between thin slices of 
buttered bread. 

NUT SANDWICH 

Chop any kind of nuts, pecans, peanuts, walnuts, etc., add mayonnaise dressing. 
Spread on lettuce leaf and place between buttered bread. 



COLD MEAT SANDWICH 

Slice any cold meat very thin, place between thinly sliced and buttered bread 
or crackers. 

SARDINE SANDWICH 

Mix sardines, cut fine, with mustard mayonnaise dressing and spread on crackers 
or thinly sliced bread. 



ISSi. 



rnr 



CHEESE CRACKERS 

Grate or cut yellow cheese fine, sprinkle on salted crackers and put in oven until 
cheese is melted. 

APPLE SANDWICH 

Butter thin slices of white bread, lay on slice of apple cut round and spread with 
mayonnaise dressing; or, if liked, use Boston brown bread. 




5 



A 



xsst. 



169 



9 






^Sv 



<- 



-* -^^ • 



ITS 



f 



m 



• -<^ ,. 



•i- 






170 



f 



•I- 



^- 



-i- 



>1 

I 



*^ 






-4- 



-^ 






@i9 




Home-made bread, owing to the cheapness and plentifulness of baker's bread, 
has become a lu.xury or is altogether missing in many homes. 

This should not be the case, as good home-made bread is more nutritious, whole- 
some and digestible than most bread bought at the shops, besides it costs less than 
baker's bread. With care and perse\'erance any one can become a good bread 
baker. 

GENERAL RULES FOR BREAD MAKING 

For white bread, use the best new process flour. Good flour is never dead white 
in color, but has a yellowish or creamy tint. If milk is used for mixing it should 
first be scalded and cooled, as that renders the dough less liable to sour. Be sure 
that the yeast is fresh. 

An yeast cake is fresh w hen it has an even yellow color throughout ; dark streaks 
indicate mold, "^'east must never be put in hot water, or hot milk, or be allowed 
to freeze, as freezing or subjecting it to great heat kills the little yeast plants of 
which it is composed. Keep yeast wrapped in the tinfoil in a cold place until 
ready to use. 



^ 



Yeast is a plant and needs air to make a good growth, as well as water and an 
even temperature. 

Dry yeast may be used in place of compressed and should be dissolved in the 
same quantity of water as specified in recipes. 



One cake of dry yeast is equivalent to '2 cake compressed yeast. 




Always put dry ingredients in bowl first and then add the liquid gradually 
they will mix much smoother. 



50C 



:ally; h^ 

x<zk 




xx: 



For bread the exact quantity of liquid cannot be given, this depending on the 
kind of flour used. Bread dough should be kneaded steadily and quickly for 
20 minutes, working in all the dry flour and adding a little more if the dough 
sticks to the bowl or the hands. 



The proper way to knead is by pushing the dough with the palm of the hand, 
curving the fingers to keep the ball of dough from flattening too much; with every 
push turn the dough one quarter I'ound and hall fokl it over. 




Do not make the dough too stiff by adding too much flour or kneading too long. 
A soft dough makes the bread tender and it will keep better than if made with 
stiff dough. Knead until the dough has a silky smoothness, is full of bubbles and 
does not stick to the hands or board. 



Cover the sponge with a cloth, stand in a moderately warm place free from 
di'aughts and let it rise until it has doubled in bulk, in the daytime, in a warm 
kitchen, this will probabl\- be about 4 hours; at night when the temperature is 
lower, the bread will be ready to mold into loaves earl\ in the morning. Should it 
have risen fully before the cook is ready to attend to it, the dough may be "cut 
down" from the sides of the bowl and allowed to come up again. This will prevent 
over-raising and consequent souring. 



In forming into loaves, turn the dough on to a lightly floured board, divide 
into portions, knead lightly and put into greased pans; cover with a cloth and 
allow the dough to double its bulk After being shaped into loaves the bread 
should be allowed to rise to double its bulk and then be baked. 



In baking bread have the oven only moderately hot when the bread first goes 
in, so as to allow it to rise to its fullest extent; then increase the heat to form a 
good crust, and finally, reduce it again to let the center of the loaf bake thoroughly. 
Two-pound loaves (before baked) require about three-quarters of an hour to bake 
and when done must be removed at once from the pans and put where the air will 
circulate freely around them until cold. 




Test oven by sprinkling a little flour on sheet of paper; if flour browns in 5 
minutes the oven is right for bread, if it browns in ? minutes the o\en is right for 
biscuits. 



XX 




WP^^^ 



^^^ 



f"^ 



^ K; ^ 



^r-^^ m 



174 



S^FP?^-^--^ ' '•' 



^ 






^ t<^ 



^ig 



175 



rnr 



A 



In ordinary small ranges loaves need frequent turning to insure an even baking. 



A new baking pan should always be baked blue in the oven before it is used. 
When bread is baked remove from pan and place upside down to cool. If a crisp 
crust is desired allow bread to cool without covering; if soft crust, cover with a 
towel during cooling. When cool, place in a closely covered bo.x. 



Bread is brushed with milk to make a darker crust; if tops of loaves are brushed 
with butter before putting in the oven, the crust will be moist. When shortened 
with butter, bread has a good flavor, but is not as white as when lard is used. 



Good bread is light though fine grained throughout, it is not sticky and has no 
yeasty or sour smell; when pressed between the thumb and fingers the crumbs 
do not stick together, the crust is thin, crisp and brown. 



Never keep bread wrapped in cloth, as the cloth will absorb moisture and cause 
an unpleasant taste. 



A bread bo.x should be washed, scalded and aired frequently to keep bread 
from molding. 



Do not waste any dry, stale or broken bread; roll into crumbs, put in an air- 
tight jar and crumbs will keep a long while. 



Use stale bread for puddings and stuffings; it makes a lighter stuffing than 
fresh bread. Good for toast or milk toast. 



Bread made occasionally of entire wheat or graham flour affords a pleasant 
change and agrees with some people better than white bread. The dough for 
such should not be made stiff enough to knead, because when kneaded such bread 
is apt to be hard and dry. The mixture should be of the consistency of a very 
thick batter and should be well stirred, beaten and raised. Loa\es should be put 
in the oven to bake before they have quite doubled in size. 



XSSli 



5 



«& 



rnr 



WHITE BREAD 

In the evening sift together 2 cups flour and '2 teaspoon sugar; stir into this i 
cup lukewarm water, then add '2 cai<e compressed yeast dissolved in >2 cup luke- 
warm water; mix thoroughly and set to raise. 

Next moi-ning thin the yeast mixture with i cup lukewarm water and stir in 
1,2 rouneling tablespoon lard. Sift into a bowl 4 cups flour and '2 tablespoon salt, 
make a hole in the middle of the heap, pour in the yeast mixture and work the 
flour down into it with the hands. If too soft, add more flour; if stiff, rinse the 
bowl in w.hich the yeast was set with a little lukewarm water and work this into 
the dough. 

Knead the dough well and set to raise until it doubles its bulk; when raised, 
cut down, handling lightly, mold into loaves and put in baking pans, let rise 
until nearl\- double in size then put into moderate oven and bake with steady heat. 

MILK BREAD 

Same recipe as foregoing, using milk instead of water and omitting the lard, as 
the milk takes the place of shortening. 



5 



RAISIN BREAD 

In the evening sift together i cups flour and '2 teaspoon sugar; stir into this i cup 
lukewarm water, then add J4 cake compressed yeast dissolved in ' 2 cup lukewarm 
water; mix thoroughly and set to raise. 

Next morning thin the yeast mixture with i cup lukewarm water and stir in 
}2 rounding tablespoon lard, i teaspoon sugar and i cup raisins. Sift into a bowl 
4 cups flour and '2 tablespoon salt, make a hole in the middle of the heap, pour 
in the yeast mixture and work the flour down into it with the hands. If too soft, 
add more flour; if stiff, rinse the howl in which the yeast was set with a little luke- 
warm water and work this into the dough. Knead the dough well and set to raise 
until it doubles its bulk; when raised, cut down, handling lightly, mold into loaves 
and put in baking pans, let rise until nearly double in size, then put into moderate 
oven and bake with steadv heat. 



5 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

Sift into mixing bowl 5 cups entire wheat flour, i rounding tablespoon sugar and i 
teaspoon salt, then stir into this 2 cups scalded milk, and when lukewarm add i 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in ^4 cup lukewarm water; beat vigorously with a 
strong spoon, cover and let rise to double its bulk. When raised, beat and turn 
into greased bread pans, having pans about half full; let rise again and bake in 
moderate oven. Entire wheat bread should not quite double its bulk in the last 
rising. This may also be baked in gem pans. 



XS£t 



177 






^ 



^- 



■m 

^ 

w 



-!- 






-5- 



-^ 



^t 







>c< 



^ 




GRAHAM BREAD 

Sift into mixing bowl 2 cups white flour, ? cups graham flour, i i-ouncling tablespoon 
sugar and i teaspoon salt, then stir into this 2 cups scalded milk; when lukewarm 
add I cake compressed yeast dissohed in ■'4 cup lukewarm water; beat vigorously 
with a strong spoon, cover and let rise to double its bulk, then beat again and 
turn into greased bread pans, having pans about half full; let rise again and bake 
in moderate oven. Graham bread should not quite double its bulk in the last 
rising. This may also be baked in muffin rings. 



RYE BREAD 

In the evening sift together 2 cups white flour, 4 cups rye flour and i tablespoon 
sugar. Take 2 cups of the sifted flour and into it stir i cup scalded milk, let stand 
until lukewarm, then add '-, cake compressed yeast dissolved in '2 cup lukewarm 
water; mix thoroughly and set to raise. 

Next morning thin the \cast mixture v\ ith i cup scalded milk, which has been 
cooled until lukewarm and add '2 rounding tablespoon lard. Place in mixing bowl 
the 4 cups sifted flour (left from the night before), add Ji tablespoon salt, make a 
hole in the middle of the heap, pour in the yeast mixture and work the flour down 
into it with the hands. If too soft, add more flour; if stiff, rinse the bowl in which 
the yeast was set. with a little lukev\arm water and work this into the dough. 

Knead the dough well and set to raise until it doubles its bulk; when raised 
cut down, handling lightly, mold into loaves and put in baking pans, let rise 
until nearly double in size, then put into moderate oven and bake with steady 
heat. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

Sift and mix together i cup rye flour, i cup graham flour, i cupcornmeal, i teaspoon 
baking soda and i teaspoon salt, then add i cup sour milk, 2 cups sweet milk 
and I cup molasses; mix all thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a well buttered 
mold (have top, bottom and sides buttered), tie mold shut, place in double 
boiler or kettle of cold water and boil 4 hours. 

See that water does not boil to top of mold, also take care that it does not 
stop boiling. Do not fill mold more than ^4 full; the mixture must have room to 
swell. A 2} 2-pound baking powder can or 5-pound lard can are good substitutes 
for a regular mold. 




xx 




^ 



180 




>oc 




PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Melt 2 rounding tablespoons butter, i tablespoon sugar and i teaspoon salt in 
I cup scalded milk; when lukewarm adi.1 '2 cake compressed yeast dissolved in 
3'2 cup lukewarm water and stir in all the flour it will take smoothly. Don't knead. 
Set in pan of warm water, let rise to double its bulk and stir down; let rise and stir 
down 3 or 4 times. 

About I I'i hours before meal time turn on to lx)ard with as little flour as possible 
and roll out Vi inch thick. Shape w ith oval cutter (dip cutter in cream or melted 
butter). Fold and press edges together, place a tiny piece of butter in each fold; 
place in greased pan, cover and let rise i hour, then bake in hot oven for 12 to 15 
minutes until brown. 



GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

In the exening melt 2 rounding tablespoons butter, add 2 rounding tablespoons 
sugar and i teaspoon salt to i cup scalded milk; when lukewarm add }4 cake 
compressed yeast dissolved in '2 cup lukewarm water, i well beaten egg and 'A 
cup floured raisins, then stir in enough flour to make a stiff batter. Cover and 
let rise over night to double its bulk, in the morning spread '2 inch thick in 
buttered pans, cover and let rise again, then brush over with butter, sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon and bake in hot oven. 



FRUIT STOLLE 

Mix dough as for coffee cake and let rise o\-er night ; in morning knead slightly, 
working in about J-J cup more flour or enough to roll on well floured board; roll 
about J3 inch thick. 

Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, '.-j cup sultana 
raisins and H cup of finely cut nuts. Roll as for jelly roll, place in long narrow 
loaf-cake pan, thickly greased, let rise and bake in moderate oven 35 or 40 minutes. 

When cold, brush over with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar moistened with i 
teaspoon cream and fla\'ored with almond flavoring. 



GERMAN FRUIT COFFEE CAKE 

Prepare mi.xture exactly as for coffee cake; after it has risen ready to bake, instead 
of brushing with butter, dust the top lightly with flour and lay on it pieces of 
peaches, apricots, apples or blue plums that have been peeled and cut in slices. 
Sprinkle well with sugar and cinnamon, dot with butter, bake 20 minutes 
moderate oven. 




;s in 1^ 






181 




182 



m^ 



W/F^^^^ 



-^ 



■^^ 









183 



ts (ill 



5 



CRUMB COFFEE CAKE 

Prepare as for coffee cake, and when ready to hake, spread o\-er with heaten egg 
and cover with the following mixture: Melt i tablespoons butter, add '3 cup 
sugar and i teaspoon cinnamon; when sugar is partially melted, add 3 tablespoons 
flour. If liked, 2 tablespoons of grated chocolate can be added. 



DR^' TOAST 

Cut stale bread '2 inch thick, toast until golden brown on both sides. Keep in 
warm place, but do not pile up and allow to stand ; it w ill become too moist. Toast 
may be buttered before serving. 



MILK TOAST 

Toast the bread dry. Make a batter as follows: Rub ^ rounding tablespoons 
flour to a smooth paste with cold water, add 1 cup scalded milk, stirring constantly, 
cover and cook 20 minutes; then add '^ teaspoon salt and in small pieces i rounding 
tablespoon butter; stir all until well mixed. Lay the slices of toast in the batter 
until soft, then remove to serving dish. 



TOMATO CREAM TOAST 

Toast the bread dry. Make a batter as follows: Melt 2 rounding tablespoons 
butter; when it bubbles, add i teaspoon salt and stir in 3 rounding tablespoons 
flour. Dissolve '4 teaspoon baking soda in i '2 cups stewed and strained tomatoes, 
stir this gradually into the butter and flour, then add ' ■, cup scalded cream. Mix 
all thoroughly, lay the slices of toast in until soft, then serve. 



CROUTONS 
Half-inch cubes of bread, browned in butter or fried in deep fat, are called croutons. 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE 

Melt I tablespoon butter, add to this 2 eggs and beat; then add i teaspoon salt, 
2 tablespoons sugar and i cup of milk; lastly add O2 cups flour sifted together 
with I tablespoon of baking powder. Fill 2 medium sized pie pans, thickly greased, 
cover with slices of apples, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and dot with butter. 
Peaches, apricots or plums may be used instead of apples. 



" ^^ 



184 



TJST 



SPICED COFFEE CAKE 

Cream i cup of butter with i 4 cups sugar, add ? eggs and beat until light, add i 
cup molasses, i cup strong cold coffee and mix well. Then add '2 teaspoon ground 
cloves, I tablespoon ground cinnamon, 'q teaspoon each ground nutmeg and mace, 
Yi cup raisins and '^ cup currants. Dissolve 1 tablespoon soda in i tablespoon 
vinegar, beat this into the mi.xture, then add 5 cups well sifted flour and bake in 
I large or 2 smaller well greased pans in moderate oven. 



5 




! 



X£S^ 



185 




187 




GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CAKE 

Use none but the best materials for making cake. Rub the butter to a cream. 
Some prefer to wash it in warm water to take out the salt. Cream the butter 
and sugar together, beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. The baking 
powder should be thoroughly mixed and sifted with the flour several times; baking 
soda should be dissolved in sour milk or a little warm water. 



The success of your cake depends much on having the other ingredients 
thoroughly beaten together before the Hour and baking powder are added, after 
which stir as little as possible. 



Currants should be carefully picked over and washed in a colander until clean, 
then spread on tins before the fire; when dry. put away for use. Raisins should 
be seeded and cut or chopped, as preferred. 



To blanch almonds, pour boiling water over them, then drop into cold water 
and rub oft the skins. 




Fruit should be dredged with flour before putting it into the cake, to prevent 
it sinking or settling to the bottom of the dough. 



Before making cake, have the fire right so coal will not ha\e to be added while 
the cake is baking. Grease and fiour the pans or line with greased paper. Measure 
all the ingredients carefully. Cream butter until soft ; that is, rub it lightly against 
side of dish with back of spoon and work until creamy. Add the beaten egg 
yolks first, then the milk and flour, alternately, stir and mi.\ all well together. 
The beaten whites of the eggs and flavorings should always be added last. 



»z 




^ 



188 




:« 



Turn into pans and bake until mixture leaves the sides of the pan and is firm 
in the middle. Too great care cannot he taken w ith the baking; half of the success 
of the cake depends upon the oven. Too hot an o\en causes a crust to form and 
pre\'ents the batter from rising easily and baking in the center. 




Cake should rise to its full height befoi'e it begins to brown. If it bakes too 
strong underneath, place on a higher shelf or put asbestos mat under pan; if it 
bakes too strong on top, cover with paper; do not handle or disturb just after 
putting in o\'en. 



^ 



If cake calls for white of eggs only, use the yolks for fillings, puddings, sauces 
or mayonnaise dressing or a sunshine cake or some other cake calling for the yolks 
only. If a recipe calls for egg yolks only, save the whites and use for icing or tise 
in some recipe calling for whites only, such as puddings, meringues, etc. 



When cake tin is lined with paper and the paper sticks to the cake when baked, 
it can be removed by turning the cake bottom upwards uhen partly cooled and 
brushing the paper with cold water until it is thoroughly damp. If not con\enient 
to dampen the paper, it can be removed by tearing off in half-inch strips, 
commencing by tearing the first strip oft through the middle. If after a cake 
is baked it sticks to the bottom of the pan, merely turn the pan upside down 
and press a cold wet cloth to the bottom, this will bring the cake out quickly. 



^ 



Always put dry ingredients in bowl first and then add the liquid gradually 
they will mix smoother. 




OVEN TESTS 

For baking large cakes, loaf cake, etc., a moderate oven is required. A moderate 
o\en will turn a piece of white writing paper dark brown in b minutes, or the hand 
can be held inside from i 2 to 15 seconds. For small cakes, layer cakes, biscuits, 
etc., a quick oven is requii'ed; a quick or hot oven will turn a piece of white writing 
paper dark brown in 4 minutes: the hand can be held inside from 8 to 10 seconds. 



x>c 




WF^^^^ 






^--^ m 



Tjsr 



T^ 



ICINGS 
PLAIN iCING 

Put 2 tablespoons of boiling water in a bowl and gradually stir in enough 
confectioner's sugar (about i cup) to make a mixture stiff enough to spread, then 
add vanilla, lemon, orange or any flavoring extract to taste. It is usually best 
to flavor icing same as the filling and cake itself. 

Using 2 tablespoons cream oi" milk, instead of water, improves the icing. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Mix 2 or 3 tablespoons grated chocolate or cocoa with sugar, mix as in plain icing, 
add '2 teaspoon of melted butter and beat well. 

BOILED ICING 

Boil 1 cup sugar in '^ cup water until it threads from spoon. Beat egg white very 
stiff, pour syrup slowly on this, beating all the while. Continue beating until 
thick enough, then spread on cake. If beaten too long it will be lumpy; then add 
a few drops of lemon juice; if not beaten long enough it will run. It has a glossy 
surface and is soft uncierneath when done. 



FILLINGS 

CUSTARD FILLING 

Boil 1 pint of milk and i cup of sugar in pail of boiling water or double boiler; 
dissolve i tablespoon cornstarch in I4 cup milk or water, stir this into boiling milk 
and remove from fire; beat 2 eggs until light and stir into mixture. Put between 
layers while custard and layers are warm. 

CARAMEL FILLING 

Boil 2 cups brown sugar, ^2 cup milk or cream and i tablespoon of butter. Mix 
well and let boil slowly for 15 minutes, but do not stir while boiling. When cool, 
add I teaspoon vanilla extract; mix thoroughly and spread between layers. 

ORANGE FILLING 

Boil U cup of milk, 'o teaspoon butter, a pinch of salt and 3 tablespoons sugar; 
dissolve I tablespoon cornstarch in U cup of milk, add it to boiling milk and 
continue to boil a few minutes longer. Remove from fire, add juice and grated 
rind of i orange and beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Let come to a boil, stirring constantly. 
When cool, put between layers. 



jgS^ 



T5ST 



MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

Boil ]4 cup of milk and ^4 cup of sugar slowly for b minutes. Break li pound of 
marshmallows into small pieces and melt in double boiler or over hot water; when 
melted, add 2 tablespoons hot water and cook until mixture is smooth; then add 
very slowly the boiled milk and sugar, stirring constantly; beat until cool enough 
to spread, then flavor with vanilla or other extract. This can be used for filling 
and frosting. Save some of the marshmallows to decorate the top of the cake, 
arrange with candied cherries; this makes a very pretty cake. 



V 



CHOCOLATE FILLING 

Melt I'-i squares of bitter chocolate over hot water, add V^ teaspoon powdered 
sugar and 3 tablespoons milk, then add '2 cup more powdered sugar and yolk of 
I egg. Cook in double boiler until it thickens, stirring constantly; cool, then 
flavor with '2 teaspoon \anilla extract. 



5 



COCOANUT FILLING 

Beat whites of 2 eggs on platter until stiff, add 2 tablespoons powdered sugar and 
beat again. Boil '2 cup of milk, 2 tablespoons of sugar, thicken with beaten yolks 
of 2 eggs, and flavor with lemon extract. Spread this on cake first, then the 
beaten egg whites and sprinkle grated cocoanut over it. 

CUSTARD NUT FILLING 

Boil I pint of milk and 1 cup sugar in pan over boiling water or in double boiler. 
Dissolve I tablespoon of cornstarch in I4 cup milk or water; stir this into the boiling 
milk and remove from fire; beat 2 eggs until light and stir into mixture. Add 1 1^ 



cups chopped English walnuts and let it just come to a boil 
Put between layers while custard and layers are warm. 



stirring constantly. 



« 



FIG AND NUT FILLING 

Boil '2 pound of figs in '■, cup water until tender, then cut in small pieces, add 
}/2 cup of nuts cut fine. Juice of i lemon and '2 cup of powdered sugar; mix well 
and spread thickly between layers. 

NUT AND FRUIT FILLING 

Boil I Qup sugar in ' 2 cup of water until it threads fi'om spoon. Beat white of i 
egg stiff and add the syrup gradually, beating all the while; then add 1 teaspoon 
of vanilla extract or '2 teaspoon of lemon juice (if not beaten long enough mixture 
will run, if too long it will be lumpy). 

Cut up nuts with either dates, figs or raisins and mix thoroughU' with filling. 



jBSi. 




>:>c 



APPLE FILLING 

Grate 2 tart apples, sprinkling with i cup of powdered sugar while grating. Whip 
2 egg whites stiff, add the grated apple to it with i teaspoon lemon juice and beat 
ID minutes. Spread between cake, but do not make this dressing until cake is 
to be served. 





CAKES 

FEATHER CAKE 

Cream 4 tablespoons butter in a bowl, add 1 cup of sugar and cream again; to this 
add yolks of 2 eggs, beat until light, then add by degrees ^2 cup milk and I'^i 
cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder. Lastly add i teaspoon vanilla 
extract and stiffly beaten whites of the 2 eggs. Bake in a shallow greased and 
floured pan about 30 minutes, or until cake shrinks from pan. This recipe can 
also be used for layer cakes and cream, chocolate or other fillings used. 



SPICE CAKE 

Make sponge same as feather cake, only before adding the beaten whites of eggs 
add % cup seeded raisins that have been washed, dried and rolled in a little flour, 
flavor with I4 teaspoon of ground cloves, '2 teaspoon ground cinnamon and a 
grating of nutmeg instead of vanilla extract. 



MARBLE CAKE 

Make sponge same as feather cake, hut dix'ide mi.xture in 2 equal parts and color 
)4 of the cake mixture with '2 tablespoon of melted chocolate. Put the white and 
dark part alternately in the pan, so that the>' will be mingled although distinct. 



RIBBON CAKE 

Make mixture same as for feather cake. To '3 of the cake mixture add ^i 
teaspoon mixed gi^ound spices and '2 cup of seeded raisins cut in pieces; bake 
in a shallow pan. Divide the remaining unspiced portion of the mixture in 2 
equal parts and bake the 3 parts in separate shallow pans, thus making 3 layers. 
When done, cover each layer with jelly or frosting and place the spiced layer 
between the other two. 



S 



»c 





>c< 




THREE-EGG LAYER CAKE 

Cream '2 cup of butter and i '^ cups sugar, add yolks of 3 eggs beaten, i cup milk 
and I teaspoon vanilla extract. 

Mix well, then add 2 cups flour sifted with i heaping teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in 2 jelly layer cake pans until done. 

Place filling between layers and icing on top. 



NUT CAKE 

Cream 1 cup of butter and 2 cups sugar, add yolks of 5 eggs beaten until light, 
I cup of milk, I teaspoon of vanilla flavoring and mix well. Then add ^ cups 
of flour sifted w ith 3 heaping teaspoons baking powder. Lastly, add the whites 
of eggs beaten stiff. Bake in 3 or 4 layers. Cover each layer with custard nut 
filling while warm. 

DROP SPICE CAKE 

Cream i '2 cups butter, i cup sugar until foam\'. add i cup lukewarm milk, 2 eggs 
beaten until light, I4 teaspoon of ground cloves, J'4 teaspoon ground mace. M 
teaspoon ground nutmeg, ji teaspoon of ground allspice, 2 teaspoons of powdered 
cinnamon, -3 cup currants washed, dried and floured or '2 cup of raisins (cut fine). 
Mix well, then add i cup of flour sifted and i heaping teaspoon baking powder. 
Grease muffin rings well, fill half full and bake in moderate oven from 20 to 30 
min..ites. 

ORANGE LAYER CAKE 

Cream '2 cup butter and i cup sugar until foamy, add Jo cup of lukewarm milk, 
then I '2 cups flour sifted with i'2 heaping teaspoons baking powder; add a little 
grated orange rind and lastly the whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Bake in layer 
cake pans until done. Cover each layer with orange filling. 



CHOCOLA TE LOAF CAKE 

Melt I ounce bitter chocolate in a bowl over hot water. Cream \i cup butter 
and I cup sugar, add yolks of 2 eggs beaten until light, then the melted chocolate 
and beat again. Then add '2 cup of milk and i 'i cups flour sifted with i '2 heaping 
teaspoons baking powder, '2 teaspoon \anilla extract and lastly the l~>eaten whites 
of the 2 eggs. 

Turn into a well greased oblong pan or one lined w ith buttered paper and bake 
45 minutes in moderate oven. Cover with plain icing. 




^ 




197 



w^ 



,_^._ 






1.^ 



JS^^ 



199 



rssr 



FRUIT OF THE GODS 

Beat until light the yolks of 3 eggs and '■, cup sugar, add 'i pound chopped English 
walnuts, 14 pound chopped dates and 5 rounding tablespoons cracker crumbs 
mixed with }i level teaspoon baking powder, and lastly, add the stiffly beaten 
whites of the 3 eggs. 

Mix all thoroughh' and bake in i layer. When baked. co\er with whipped 
cream to which has been added 1 tablespoon of sugar. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

Cream '2 cup butter, 2 cups sugar until foamy. Melt '2 cake bitter chocolate 
which add to the creamed butter and sugar, then the yolks of 4 eggs beaten light 
and 1 cup milk; mix well, then add 2 cups flour sifted with 2 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder (sift b times). Lastly the beaten whites of the 4 eggs. Bake in 
3 layers in moderate oven. 

Filling: i cup powdered sugar, moistened with U cup cream and i teaspoon 
melted butter. Beat all until creamy. 



SPONGE CAKE 

Beat yolks of 3 eggs until light colored and thick, add i cup of sugar gradually 
and continue beating; then add ^^ cup of hot water, the grated rind of i lemon and 
I teaspoon lemon juice; beat well and add i cup flour sifted with i heaping teaspoon 
baking powder and '2 teaspoon salt. Mix all well, then stir in the stiffly beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Bake in a shallow pan. thickly greased and floured, in a moderate 
oven for 20 to 25 minutes. 

When done this may be placed on a damp towel, spread with jelly and made into 
a jelly roll, wrapping towel around it to preserve its shape. 



c 



VANlLL./\ WAFERS 

Cream U cup butter and i cup sugar, add i egg well beaten. I4 cup of milk and 2 
teaspoons vanilla extract; sift 2 cups of flour, 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder 
and }'2 teaspoon salt together, add to the other mixture and mix well. Chill 
thoroughly, then roll out thin on floured board, shape with round cutter dipped 
in flour; place close together on buttered pan and bake in moderate oven. 

COCOANUT CREA\1 COOKIES 

Beat 2 eggs until light, add 1 cup sugar gradually, then L' cup shredded cocoanut, 
I cup thick cream, i teaspoon salt and 3 cups flour sifted with 3 heaping teaspoons 
baking powder. Chill thoroughly, toss on floured board, pat and roll '2 inch 
thick. Sprinkle with cocoanut, roll again to I4 inch thickness, cut with round 
cutter, dipped in flour and bake in buttered pan in moderate oven 



xssl 



200 



rnr 



GERMAN CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

Beat 2 eggs until stiff, add i cup brown sugar gradually and continue beating; 
then add 2 bars of sweet chocolate, grated. ' 2 teaspoon salt, '4 teaspoon of cinnamon, 
grated rind of '2 lemon, i cup of almonds blanched and chopped fine, and 1 cup 
flour sifted with i heaping teaspoon baking powder. iVIi.x thoroughly, drop from 
spoon on buttered pan and bake in moderate oven. 



s/ 



i 



COCOANUT DROPS 

Beat whites of 2 eggs \'ery stiff, then gradually add '4 pound of powdered sugar, 
I teaspoon llour and i grated cocoanut. Beat together, mold with hands into 
small balls; put on buttered paper in a pan and bake in a moderate oven. It 
is better to grate the cocoanut the day before; it will not be quite so moist. 

MARGUERITES 

Cover salted soda crackers with tart jelly; over that spi^ead thickly with meringue, 
made of white of i egg beaten very stiff with i tablespoon powdered sugar and 
sprinkle with finely chopped peanuts or any nuts desired; brown slightly in 
moderate oven. 

COCOANUT ZWIEBACK— Baker's Toast 

Thickly cover pieces of zwieback (baker's toast) with meringue, made of white 
of I egg beaten very stiff with i tablespoon powdered sugar; sprinkle the meringue 
thickly with shredded or grated cocoanut and brown slightly in moderate oven. 
Nice to serve with coffee or cocoa for breakfast or lunch. 



5 



GINGERBREAD 

Put I cup molasses in mi.xing bowl and sift into it i teaspoon baking soda, 1^2 
teaspoons ground ginger and '2 teaspoon of salt. Mi.x well, then add 4 rounding 
tablespoons butter, melted, and '2 cup of boiling water. Lastly add 2 cups flour, 
gradually mix in and beat well. Bake in shallow greased and floured pan about 
25 minutes in moderate oven. 



egg with I 



DOUGHNUTS 

Sift 2 teaspoons baking powder into 2 cups of flour ^ times. Beat 

cup of sugar and 2 teaspoons of butter, add i cup of milk, mix all together. Roll 

out on a floured board, cut in shapes with a cutter, fr\' in hot lard, drain on brown 

paper. 



jssk. 



^ 




202 




XX 



GINGER SNAPS 

Heat I cup molasses to boiling point and pour over it hz cup melted lard, add I2 
teaspoon of baking soda, i tablespoon ground ginger, 1I2 teaspoons salt, 3 cups 
flour well sifted. Chill thoroughly, roll out thin on floured board, shape with 
round cutter dipped in flour. Place close together on buttered pan and bake in a 
moderate oven. If allowed to become warm before baking the dough will become 
soft, making the cookies hard when baked rather than crisp and short. 




S 




i 





204 




Pastry used for pies can be made very rich and expensive, although for general 
use a plainer crust is as good and just as wholesome. Care should always be taken 
to have all ingredients very cold and handle as little as possible. 



PLAIN CRUST 



For general use: Sift 3 cups pastry flour with i teaspoon salt several times; then 
with hands rub to crumbs with 1 cup lard, add H cup of ice water, beat vigorously 
I minute and crust is ready. 

Roll thin and do not use too much flour to roll it in, as that toughens the crust. 
This quantity is enough for several pies. For i pie use i tablespoon lard to 3 
tablespoons flour. i,s teaspoon salt, and i tablespoons ice water. Rub the pie plate 
with lard, dust with flour, then line the plate with crust. Brush the crust (if 
wished richer) with melted butter, dust with flour and fill with pie material. When 
baking pies even if crust is not brushed with butter, be sure to dust with flour 
and atways put in the oven for i or ? minutes before filling; it prevents juices 
soaking into the crust. If water is added to fruit in pie do not add until pie has 
baked 10 minutes, then pour through a slit in upper crust, using a small funnel. 
Always moisten the edge of the lower crust with water before placing the top crust 
on it, press edges together with fingers or a fork so that the juice will not run out 
easily. 



S 



RICHER PASTRY' OR PIE CRUST 

Mix together '2 cup lard, ^ cups flour, i teaspoon salt, i teaspoon sugar and 
I cup of ice water. Sift flour, salt and sugar together, rub in lard with hands 
until crumby, add ice water slowly, handling lightly. Put the dough on boaixl. 
roll out, spread with '2 cup butter, fold three times and roll up together; cut the 
pastry across and roll out pieces to fit pie plate. 





206 



TEST 



COUNTRY APPLE PIE 

Peal 3 large apples and slice thin, 



Line a pie plate with crust and dust with flour, 
filling the pie almost to the top. 

Sprinkle with J4 cup of sugar (more if apples are very tart), dot with butter, 
sprinkle with a little cinnamon and pour o\er it one egg well beaten with '2 cup of 
milk. Co\er with a top crust in which small slits have been cut, brush the crust 
with melted butter or lard and sprinkle with flour. Bake until brow n and apples 
are tender, about 1.) hour. 



DUTCH APPLE PIE 

Line pie plate with crust and dust with flour, peel apples and cut into slices about 
32 inch thick. Lay on crust in circles, sprinkle with '2 cup of sugar and a little 
cinnamon, dot with butter and pour over '2 cup of milk. Bake until apples are 
soft. If apples will not get soft, place a lid o\er the pie for a few minutes, after 
the crust has browned. 



CUSTARD PIE 

Beat 2 eggs slightly, add H cup of sugar, 's teaspoon salt and 1I2 cups milk; mi.x 
well and pour into a pie plate which has been lined with pie crust; before placing 
in oven, grate over with nutmeg. Bake in moderate oven till custard puffs up, 
about 30 minutes. It is done when custard does not stick to knife blade when cut 
into. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE 

Beat 3 eggs and yi cup sugar until light, then add 2 cups milk, Ji grated nutmeg and 
I cup grated or shredded cocoanut. Line 2 plates with plain crust, fill them with 
this mi.xture and bake in a quick oven for 30 minutes. 



LEMON PIE 

Beat yolks of z eggs slightly, add '4 cup sugar and the juice and grated rind of i 
lemon. Mix 2 tablespoons cornstarch with 4 tablespoons of cold water; pour into 
this ^4 cup of boiling water, stirring until thick and smooth, then add to the first 
mixture. Pour all into a pie plate lined with pie crust and bake in a moderate 
oven until done. Test same as custard with knife blade. When done and slightly 
cooled, cover with stiffly beaten white of the 2 eggs to which i J-2 tablespoons of 
powdered sugar have been added, then put back into oven on top shelf and brown 
slightlv. 



5 



XSSL 




208 



rnw 



T^ 



CHOCOLATE PIE 

Stir together 2 cups of milk, the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, i cup powdered sugar and 
2 tal"ilespoons grated bitter chocolate; mix thoroughly and pour into an open crust 
in pie pan. Bake until this mixture is set. then cover the pie with meringue made 
of the whites of the 2 eggs, beaten to stiff froth with 2 tablespoons pou'dered sugar. 
Rctui'n to o\en just long enough to brown. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

Stew and strain i cup of pumpkin. Cream together 1 rounding tablespoon butter 
and I cup sugar, then beat with this the yolks of 2 eggs, add '2 cup milk, the cup 
of pumpkin, i teaspoon ground cinnamon, i teaspoon ground ginger, I4 teaspoon 
ground clo\'es and lastly whites of the eggs well beaten. Mix thoroughly, pour into 
an open crust in pie pan and bake until it is firm. 



i 



SWEET POTATO PIE 

Make same as pumpkin pic. using boiled, mashed, strained sweet potatoes instead 
of pumpkin, 

FRUIT PIES 

Line a pie plate with crust, dust with flour. F^ill with any fruit desired, sprinkle 
with from '2 to i cup sugar, according to the tartness of the fruit, i rounding table- 
spoon butter and cinnamon if liked. Cover the top or not, as liked. If not covered, 
use milk or custard of i egg beaten with ^2 cup of sugar, pinch of salt, and I2 cup 
milk to moisten fruit. Do not sprinkle with sugar, if custard is used. When pie 
is covered brush the top crust with melted butter or lard, dust with flour, and after 
baking 5 or 10 minutes, add 'o cup of water through slits in the top with small 
funnel. 



5 



CHEESE PIE 

Line pie pan with rich crust about H inch thick, dust w ith flour. Put through a 
seive i cup cottage cheese and beat until light with 2 egg yolks. ,'2 cup of sugar. ^ 
cup of milk and 1 teaspoon \anilla extract, then stir in the stiffly beaten whites of 
the 2 eggs. Pour into crust, sprinkle with cinnamon and bake about 20 minutes 
or till cheese is firm. 

MINCE PIE 

Mince pie is baked with 2 crusts; use plenty of mince-meat for filling. Some dust 
the pie with pow^lered sugar before serving. Most people prefer mince pie served 
hot. 



^Si. 




>c< 



i 



MINCE-MEAT 

Plunge 3 or 4 pounds of beef, cut from neck or shoulder, into boiling water and boi 
until tender, then chop or grind fine, add i > ■, pounds raisins washed and cleaned, 
1 1 2 pounds currants, the chopped rind of i lemons, juice of i one lemon and 2 
oranges, 2 pounds sugar, M pound of citron cut fine, i tablespoon salt, i grated 
nutmeg, i teaspoon ground ginger, i tablespoon ground mace, i teaspoon ground 
allspice, 1 teaspoon ground cloves, 2 tablespoons ground cinnamon and ^4 gallon 
good cider. Let this all come to a boil, then remove from fire and when cool add 
2 pounds clean, sweet kidney suet ground fine, place in earthen jar, pour }<, cup of 
good whiskey over it and cover. When ready to bake pie, add i cup chopped 
apples and 2 tablespoons whiskey to i cup mince-meat for each pie. If put in the 
mince-meat when made, the apples become soft and do not taste so good as when 
put in fresh each time. The whiskey also loses much of its strength if put in too 
long ahead. A little whiskey should be poured o\er when made, it helps keep 
mince-meat from moulding. This makes quite a quantity; it can be kept se\'eral 
weeks in winter by keeping in a cool place in tightly closed jars. 






»C 




212 




>c< 



4f 




\ 







APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Pare and core 3 apples, sift together 2 cups flour, 2 le\el teaspoons baking powder, 
work I teaspoon butter in the flour, add '2 cup of milk, roll out, cut the dough in 
pieces large enough to enclose an apple; press dough tight around, bake in oven 
until apples are soft or put in a buttered steamer and cook over boiling water. 
Peaches may be used instead of apples. Serve with hard sauce or the following 
sauce if liked: Boil 2 cups water, >2 cup sugar, i teaspoon each ground cinnamon 
and nutmeg and "2 teaspoon melted butter for 5 minutes, then add i tablespoon 
cornstarch and again boil 5 minutes; let cool, then add whiskey or wine to taste. 



BREAD PUDDING 

Break 2 cups of stale bread in small pieces, add i rounding tablespoon butter and 
pour over this 2 cups of boiling milk; cover and let stand until cool, then add 2 well- 
beaten eggs, 2 cups of cokl milk, ■''4 cup sugar and a little grated nutmeg to suit 
taste; mi.x all well. Bake about '2 hour in hot oven. Serve with the following 
sauce: Cream 2 rounding tablespoons butter with '2 cup sugar, in this beat i egg 
thoroughly, then add 2 ctips boiling water and stir. Same sauce as with apple 
dumpling; is also very nice with bread pudding. 



CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

Break 2 cups stale bread in small pieces, add i roun^ling tablespoon butter, 2 round- 
ing tablespoons cocoa (or a square of grated chocolate) dissolved in '2 cup of hot 
water and pour over this 2 cups boiling milk, co\er and let stand until cool; then 
add well beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 2 cups cold milk, -'4 cup sugar and grated nutmeg 
to suit taste. Mix all well and bake about '2 hour in hot oven. Beat the whites 
of the 2 eggs stiff with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar and spread on pudding after 
it is baked; return to o\'en long enough to brown the whites. Serve with custard 
sauce. 



tard \^ 






213 



2^F^ 



I 



I 



s 



c>m. 



214 




215 



TSST 



RICE PUDDING 

Wash '2 cup of rice, soak over night and mix w ith 4 cups mil 



cup molasses. 



)-2 teaspoon salt. '2 teaspoon ground cinnamon and i tablespoon butter. Pour into 
a buttered pudding dish, bake 3 hours in a slow oven, stirring 1 times during first 
hour of baking, to prevent rice from settling. 

RICE PUDDING No. 2 

Wash I3 cup rice, soak over night, then boil till done, add 2 cups of hot milk, ^scup 
butter, 2 eggs beaten until light, grated rind of i lemon and '2 cup sugar. Bake 
30 minutes in hot oven. Serve with fruit sauce. 

RICE AND FRUIT PUDDING 

Boil 2 cups of rice until done, add i cup milk and 2 beaten egg yolks. '2 cup sugar 
and I teaspoon \anilla. lemon or almond flavoring. Let this come to a boil until 
it is like a thick custard. Place fresh peaches, peeled and sliced, in a dish, pour rice 
on top and on the rice the whites of the 2 eggs, beaten stift with 2 tablespoons 
powdered sugar, and serve with cream. Apples stewed and sweetened, or any 
other fruits may be used instead of peaches. Canned fruits can be used as well as 
fresh. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

Beat 2 eggs slightly, add 2 rounding tablespoons sugar. 2 cups of milk and Jo tea- 
spoon salt, pour in a greased pudding dish, grate nutmeg over the top; set pudding 
dish in a pan of hot water and bake slow ly until custard puffs up. If tried with a 
knife blade and knife comes out clean custard is done. 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Scald 2 cups of milk with thin peeling of '2 lemon. Mi.x 14 cup of cornstarch, 
'2 cup sugar and I4 teaspoon of salt with '2 cup of cold water, add to the milk and 
boil until thick. Then add beaten yolks of 2 eggs and boil again for se\'eral minutes. 
over hot water, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, and when nearly cool add 
the stiffly beaten whites of the 2 eggs and i teaspoon of \'anilla extract, pour into 
a cold wet mold and put in cool place to stiffen. Serve with fruit sauce. 



CORNSTARCH CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Make same as abo\e. but add 3 tablespoons grated sweet chocolate to the scalded 
milk Serve egg sauce with this. 



ISI3t. 



rnr 



rn 



BROWN BETTY 

Butter a quart pudding dish and place in it alternate layers of bread crumbs and 
thinly sliced or chopped apples. Season each layer with bits of butter, a little 
sugar, ground cinnamon and ground cloves. When dish is nearly full, pour over 
yi cup molasses and Jo cup water mixed. Cover top with crumbs and bake % of 
an hour, until apples are soft. This will take about 3 cups of chopped apples. 
I cup of crumbs and 2 tablespoons of butter, ,' 2 cup sugar, • i teaspoon of cloves and 
I teaspoon of cinnamon, if a richer pudding is desired ' 2 cup of raisins and • 2 cup 
chopped blanched almonds may be added. Mi.x them among the layers. Serve 
with hard sauce. 



5 



BIRD'S NEST PUDDING 

Peel 4 large cooking apples, digging out the seeds and core. Place in a buttered 
pudding dish, with the following custard; Beat 2 eggs until light, add '2 cup milk, 
2,3 cup sugar, '^ teaspoon salt and i teaspoon vanilla extract. Beat all well, pour 
over the apples and bake 30 minutes or until apples are done. Serve w ith cream 
or cream sauce. If apples will not get soft place a lid o\er dish for a few minutes 
while baking. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

Moisten 2 cups of cracker crumbs with ^4 cup of milk; when soft add 2 beaten eggs, 
the grated rind of i and juice of 2 oranges. Mix well, pour into a buttered 
pudding dish and bake 20 minutes. Serve with egg sauce. 



5 



APPLE SNOW 

Grate i large apple and add gradually while grating H cup of powdered sugar, to 
keep apple from turning dark. Beat white of i egg until very stift, then add the 
grated apple and sugai- mixed, by spoonfuls, beating vigorously until apple is all 
beaten in. then beat for 10 minutes longer. Use a large platter for the egg whites, 
because when apple is added and beaten the mixture swells three times its original 
bulk. Pile in deep saucers or sherbet glasses and pour around it a cream sauce, 
flavored with almond or banana extract. 



PLUM ROLL 

Sift 1 cup flour, I teaspoon baking powder, '4 teaspoon salt and '^ cup sugar 
together and mix well with this i tablespoon lard; then add enough milk to make a 
soft dough, beat a minute with a fork and roll out I4 inch thick. Cover with thick 
layer of seeded blue plums. Sprinkle the plums with sugai' and a little cinnamon, 
roll like a jelly roll and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Serve with whipped 
cream or hard sauce. 



XSSL 



ei0 

f 



4- 



<- 



-s- 



-5- 






f 



I 



i 



p 




»: 



5 




PEACH COBBLER 

Sift I cup Hour, i teaspoon baking powder, ^i teaspoon salt and I4 cup sugar 
together and mi.x well with this i tablespoon lard; then add enough milk to make a 
soft dough; beat a minute with fork. Line the bottom and all sides of a shallow 
baking pan with the dough, peel ripe peaches, cut into slices '2 inch thick and place 
thickly in the pan with 1 tablespoon of butter and sprinkle with ground cinnamon. 
Bake 10 minutes in moderate oven, pour o\er it ' ■> cup of milk and bake 20 minutes 
longer. 

LEMON JELLY 

Soak I4 box gelatine in '^ cup cold water for 5 minutes and dissolve with Ji cup of 
boiling water, add '2 cup sugar, stir until dissolved and cooled; then add '2 cup of 
lemon juice and strain through a cheese cloth into mold. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



ORANGE JELLY 

Soak }4 box gelatine in 14 cup cold water for 5 minutes and dissolve with ^2 cup 
boiling water; add J 2 cup sugar and stir until dissolved and cooled, then add juice 
of }4 lemon and strain into another bowl; then stir in i cup orange juice and pour 
into molds. Remove juice from orange with spoon, being careful not to get fibres 
or rind; this juice should be added after straining so that the little particles of 
orange pulp may be retained. For this recipe red oranges are the nicest. 



WINE JELLY 

Soak 14 box gelatine in M cup cold water for 5 minutes and dissolve with i cup 
boiling water, add '2 cup sugar, stir until dissolved and cooled. Then add >2 cup 
wine and juice of i lemon and strain into molds. 



SNOW PUDDING 

Soak 1.3 box gelatine in '3 cup cold water 5 minutes and dissolve with i cup boiling 
water, add i cup sugar and juice of 3 lemons; stir thoroughly; when dissolved place 
in a dish standing in ice water. Let stand until it begins to thicken, then add the 
whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, beat the mixture until it is light and spongy; put 
lightly into a glass dish, or shape in a mold. Serve with cream and sugar or with 
a boiled custard. Other fruit juice may be used; it may take the place of a part of 
the water, in which case the juice of 1 lemon to each quart of jelly will bring out 
the flavor of the fruit. 





220 




XX 



STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

Soak I4 box gelatine in '4 cup of cold water 5 minutes and let dissolve by standing 
the cup in hot water; strain into this i cup strawberry juice or pulp and juice of '2 
lemon, add '2 cup sugar and stir until dissolved. Set into ice water and stir until 
mixture begins to thicken; then gently stir into this ij^ cups double cream (the 
cream should ha\c been fii'st beaten solid). Turn into mold lined with straw- 
berries cut in halves; when chilled turn from mold. Garnish with fresh berries 
and leaves. Prepare Bavarian creams with other fruits, such as pineapple, rasp- 
berry, grapes, oranges, etc., in the same manner. Pineapple juice and pulp must 
be scalded before gelatine is added to it, because the acid in fresh pineapple will 
not let gelatine "set." 



COCOANUT CREAM 

Soak '4 box gelatine in I4 cup cold water about 5 minutes and let dissolve by stand- 
ing dish in hot water; then heat 2 cups of milk to boiling point, stir in beaten yolks 
of 3 eggs, 1,3 cup sugar and a pinch of salt, boil until mixture thickens slightly, 
remove from fire and add the dissolved gelatine. When cooled and beginning to 
set, mix in i cup grated or shredded cocoanut, the whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff and 
I teaspoon \anilla extract. Line a mold with sections of orange and poui' in the 
custard. Serve ice cold. 





EGG FLOAT 

Boil 2 cups fresh milk. Beat well the yolk of i egg and ?4 teaspoon cornstarch in 
a little cold milk; pour into this the boiling milk, stirring constantly; sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Beat white of the i egg very stiff and flavor slightly. 

Pour the custard in individual side dishes and drop spoonful of white of egg in 
center of each. 



BANANA TRIFLE 

Place a layer of sponge fingers or rusks (lady fingers) at the bottom of a glass dish, 
on these place slices of sweet oranges alternating w ith layers of sliced L^ananas. 
Beat together the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 tablespoons of sugar and a little \-anilla extract, 
pour into this 2 cups hot milk, stirring constantly, then boil for 10 minutes. Allow 
to cool and pour over fruit in the dish and sprinkle top with grated or shredded 
cocoanut. Garnish with glace cherries and pieces of orange, set on ice; serve cold. 
Make meringue and cover the fruit and custard with it. 



S 



221 




WF^ 






^h^;^ 



^-^^. 



^ST 



5 



ORANGE MERINGUE 

Moisten i heaping tablespoon of cornstarch and mix with 4 tablespoons sugar and 
2 cups hot water, boil for 10 minutes, then add the juice of 2 lemons. Peel 3 oranges, 
cut them in slices and lay in a deep dish, pour the hot sauce over, then cover with 
whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff with 3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Set in hot oven 
and brown top slightly. Serve very cold. 



SAUCES FOR DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 

Boiling too rapidly ruins the fia\or of any sauce; it must boil once, but should 
never do more than simmer afterwards. 

PLAIN SAUCE 

Rub '2 cup butter and i ^2 cups sugar to a cream, to which add 2 well beaten eggs 
and just before ser\'ing add enough boiling water to make a thick cream, mi.x well, 
flavoring to suit. 

BRANDS' SAUCE 

Cream i cup butter with 2 cups puK'erized sugar, add 4 tablespoons brandy, 
li teaspoon each ground cinnamon and mace. Beat hard and set in a cold place 
until wanted. 

CLEAR SAUCE 

Boil 2 cups of water and 1 cup of sugar until clear and a little thick; flavor with 
wine, lemon juice or fruit juice. 

EGG SAUCE 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff, dry froth; beat into this, a little at a time, 1 cup 
powdered sugar. When smooth and light, add '2 teaspoon vanilla extract with 
the beaten yolks of the 2 eggs. Beat the mixture a minute longer, then stir in i 
cup of whipped cream. Serve at once. 

CREAM SAUCE 

I3oil 1 ' 2 cups of sweet milk. Beat the yolk of i egg with i teaspoon flour and 
enough sugar to make the cream very sweet. Stir this into the boiled milk, let 
cool and fla\or to taste. For pudding in which egg is used this is almost as good 
as rich cream and preferable to thin cream. 



bdi 



jssk. 




1SST 



VANILLA CREAM SAUCE 

Cream 3 tablespoons butter with -3 cup of powdered sugar; when light and creamy, 
add a teaspoon of vanilla extract, then gradually beat 2 cups of whipped cream in. 
Place the bowl in a pan of boiling water and stii- constantly for 5 minutes. Pour 
the sauce into a w arm bowl and serve. 



Pq 



HARD SAUCE 

Cream ''4 cup butter with 2 cups sugar; stir in gradually 4 tablespoons of wine or 
2 tablespoons whiskey, grate nutmeg on top. The juice and grated rind of a 
lemon may be used instead of wine or whiskey. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

Nlash two cups of any kind of ripe fruit, such as red raspberries, strawberries or 
peaches (if the latter, they must be very ripe). Add i tablespoon melted butter 
and I cup pulverized sugar. Stir well together and set over the fire until warm. 
Nice to serve with rice. 



5 



5 




XSSL 




XX 



^mf 




^ 



The finer the ice is chopped the more extensive will be its contact with can, hence 
the cream will freeze quicker and better. For rapid freezing, sprinkle the ice with 
plenty of salt when packing around can; the more freely salt is used the more 
rapid will be the freezing process. 

To freeze ice cream perfectly, turn slowly at first, than faster and very quickly 
at the last. 

Remove dasher and mash cream down, pour off salt water in bucket and repack 
the freezer, cover closely after cream is done and let stand one hour to "ripen." 

Ice cream loses its sweetness in freezing, so better ha\'c mixture a little too sweet 
rather than not sweet enough before freezing. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

For I quart of ice cream; Scald J2 cup milk and beat i egg until foamy with I2 cup 
of sugar, gradually pour the hot milk over this, pouring all back into pan again and 
let it come to a boil, stirring constantly to keep it from curdling. Let this cool, 
then add M cup sugar, i cup cream, i cup of milk and i teaspoon of vanilla extract. 
Put into can and freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

For 1 quart of ice cream; Scald ,'2 cup milk and beat i egg until foamy with >2 cup 
sugar, then gradually pour the hot milk over this, pour all back into pan again and 
let it come to a boil, stirring constantly to keep from curdling. Let this cool, then 
add 1 2 cup of sugar, i cup cream, H cup milk and > 2 cup peaches. Put into can 
and freeze. Peaches or any other fruits should be mashed through a colander or 
coarse sieve, so there will be no lumps to freeze hard. Let stand i hour to ripen 
before using. 




STRAWBERRY OR BANANA ICE CREAM 
Same as peach, substituting strawberries or bananas for peaches. 



5oc=y 




>c< 




THREE OF A KIND 

Mix juice of I lemon, juice of i orange, i large banana mashed to a pulp, i cup 
sugar and about 3 cups of water. Put in freezer, and when about halt frozen add 
}i cup of cream, then freeze and ser\ e. 

MILK SHERBET 

Mix JLiice of I lemons and i ctip sugai', ad^l 2 cups of milk slowly and freeze at once. 

RASPBERRY' SHERBET 

Mix I '2 cups water, I4 cup sugar, i cup raspberry syrup, juice of '2 lemon and 
freeze; when nearly frozen add beaten white of i egg, freeze some more, when done 
repack and let ripen. 

LEMON ICE 

Cook a syrup of 2 cups water and i cup of sugar, boil 20 minutes, add '2 cup of 
lemon juice, cool, strain and freeze. 

PEACH MELBA 

Put I round piece of sponge cake about half inch thick in the bottom of a deep 
plate. Cover this with a layer of about an inch of vanilla ice cream. On top of 
the cream arrange sliced peaches, and over all pour a chilled raspberry sauce. 
Dissolve and thin raspberry jelly, if fresh fruit cannot be had for making the sauce. 

CREAM FRUIT SALAD 

Place a half of a peach in a tall fruit glass. Surround with slices of oranges, pieces 
of sliced pineapple, or strawberries if in season. Pour over fruit port wine or 
maraschino and cover with vanilla ice cream. If desired, pour the same raspberry 
sauce over the fruit as for peach melba instead of wine. 

RASPBERRY ICE 

Sprinkle 1 quart of raspberries with i cup sugar, let stand 2 hours, mash and squeeze 
through cheese cloth or fine sieve, add i cup water and 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 
then freeze. 

ORANGEADE ICE 

Bruise the rind of 2 oranges in 2 cups of water, remove the rind. Mix the juice of 
2 oranges, i lemons and ,'2 pound of sugar, stir this into the water from which the 
rind has been removed. Mix all well together and freeze. 




^ 



J^^^ 




229 




230 




231 



fSST 



ORANGE ICE 

Cook a syrup of 2 cups of w ater and i cup of sugar, boil 20 minutes, then add juice 
of I lemon, i cup orange juice and grated rind of the orange, cool, strain and freeze. 

ORANGE PUNCH 

Freeze orange ice as above, then add 2 tablespoons Jamaica rum and 2 tablespoons 
brandy to each cup of the ice; work this gradually into the frozen ice and freeze 
I 5 minutes longer. It is then ready to serve. 

ROMAN PUNCH 

To I pint of lemonade add and mix w ell the beaten white of 1 egg, i| cup of Mara- 
schino and freeze; when frozen, add 2 tablespoons of cognac, 2 tablespoons Jamaica 
rum and 2 tablespoons of peach brandy ; freeze, not hard, and set to ripen. Serve 
in small thin tumblers. 



5 



! 




bd 



ISSi. 



232 



Tsir 







5 



BOILED COFFEE 

Use I heaping tablespoon coffee to each cup water. Grind the coffee moderately 
fine and put into a perfectly clean coffee pot. Add enoiin;h cold water to moisten 
the coffee, then pour the measured boiling water over, co\ci- the pot closely and boil 
ID minutes. Then pour in half a cup of cold water, draw the pot to the side of the 
range and allow it to stand 5 minutes to settle before serving. Ne\er let the coffee 
boil after the cold water has been added. If coffee is left o\er, poui' it off the coffee 
grounds before cooled, reheat with water and less fresh ground coffee will be required 
in the ne.xt coffee making. Always thoroughly wash, scald and dry the coffee pot 
after using. It is better to buy whole coffee and grind it at home. Coffee should 
be kept in an airtight can, it ix'tains the aroma better. 



DRIP COFFEE 

Use I heaping tablespoon of coffee to each cup of water. Have coffee pulverized 
or ground fine as possible, put in drip sack, pour boiling water over it slowly; 
when all water needed has been added, pour out Jiof the coffee in a big cup or 
pitcher and pour o\cr the grounds once more. 



TEA 

Put tea in caithen tea pot and pour on boiling water. Use i teaspoon of tea for 
each cup of water; allow to draw for 5 minutes, then ser\e. Ne\'er boil tea nor 
allow it to remain long on the leaves, for in either case tannin, which is a poison, 
w ill be extracted. 



ICE TEA 

Make a strong tea, strain into a glass pitcher; to every pint of tea allow i tablespoon 
of lemon juice and sugar to taste. Add cracked ice and serve. 



X£Sk. 




235 




>oc 




COCOA 

Mix 3 tablespcx)ns of cocoa and 5 tablespoons sugar with about \i cup of water; 
add to this 2 cups of milk and 2 cups of water, heat together. Stir constantly and 
boil 3 or 4 minutes, then serve. 

CHOCOLATE 

Scald 3 cups of milk. Melt i 4 squares bitter chocolate over hot water, add '4 cup 
of sugar and pinch of salt, stir in i cup of boiling water; when smooth boil for a 
minute, then add to the scalded milk. Flavor with i teaspoon of vanilla extract. 
Serve in chocolate cups with w hipped cream. 

LEMONADE 

Peel I lemon thin, boil peel in ^2 pint of water, adding 14 cup of sugar. Cool and 
strain, and when needed add juice of the lemon and ,'2 pint ice water and cracked 
ice. Sweeten to taste. 

LEMONADE No. 2 

Mi.x juice of 3 lemons, ■'4 cup of sugar and ice water to make it of right strength. 
The juice of 1 lime added to this is very good. Grape juice added is also very good. 



GRAPE JUICE PUNCH 

Mix '2 pint grape juice, juice of i orange and i lemon, '2 cup of sugar, 2 cups of 
water, '4 cup of maraschino cherries and sliced oranges or pineapple. Serve very 
cold. 

GRAPE JUICE AND CARBONATED WATER 

Fill glass Ji full of grape juice and fill the rest with carbonated water, either soda 
pop or seltzer, 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Boil 3^ cup of sugar, i cup of water, i lemon rind and i orange rind for 10 minutes 
and cool. Peel lemon and orange very thin as the white or under skin causes a 
bitter taste. Add the juice of 2 lemons, 1 lime, 2 oranges and }4 pineapple cut fine 
and sugared; also the juice of either strawberries, raspberries or peaches, mashed 
and strained; also a few Maraschino cherries and juice. Add water and sweeten to 
taste. Serve very cold. When fresh fruit cannot be had, a glass of strawberry, 
raspberry or curi'ant jelly dissolved with a little water can be used. 




yoc 




^ 



236 




>c< 



CREAM FIZZ 
To H glass of rich cream add ^4 glass good, sweet carbonated water. 

GRAPE JUICE AMBROSIA 

Put I cup of sugar into a saucepan with 1 cup of water and hoil for 8 minutes. 
Remove from the fire and w hen cold add the strained juice of i grape fruit. 2 lemons 
and I pint of grape juice. Stand in a cool place for four hours. Serve with ice 
water. Whipped and sweetened cream may be placed on top if liked. 




i 




^ 




XX 





238 



rnr 



■^3 







a 



llllJlli;,)J!ii 



^«ij 



^^ 



The chief difference between canning and preserving is in the amount of sugar used. 
In canning, from '4 to I3 is the most common quantity, while in preserving, from 
•'4 to equal parts may be required, according to the acidity of the fruit. 

Canning is the more economical method and possesses the advantage of retaining 
more nearly the fresh flavor of the fruit. With many housekeepers the chances 
that a jar of fruit will keep perfectly, or that it will spoil, are about even. Many 
consider it a question of luck, but if fruit is cooked thoroughly, placed in sterilized 
jars and properly sealed, it must keep, and can neither mold nor ferment. The 
jars must be free from cracks and used for no other purpose than canning fruit. 
The rubbers must be new and sterilized at the same time as the jars; it is not 
economy to use old rubbers. 

To insure success, three rules must be followed ; 

1 . All fruit used, while ripe, must not be over-ripe nor at all soft. 

2. Absolute cleanliness must be observed in everything used for cooking and 
storing the fruit; have all jars, covers, rubbers, spoons, etc.. sterilized immediately 
before using. 

3. Cover all jars or glasses while the contents are still scalding hot so that no 
spores of mold may reach the fruit. In the case of jellies, if not convenient to 
seal them at once, cover with sheets of glass while cooling. 

To sterilize utensils and receptacles used in jelly-making and canning, wash 
thoroughly and place in a pan. cover with cold water and bring to a fast boil. Fill 
each jar or glass as remo\'ed from the boiling water without allowing time to cool. 

Jelly bags may be made of cheese cloth or muslin. Before using, wet with cold 
water, otherwise some juice will be absorbed by the bag and wasted. 

Canned fruits are richer if cooked in a syrup instead of in water to which sugar is 
added to form a s\rup after the fruit is cooked. 



jssi. 



rnr 



TO PREPARE SYRUPS FOR CANNED FRUITS 

For plums, peaches, cherries, pears, blackberries and other sweet varieties of fruits, 
use one pound of sugar to a quart of watei'. 

For the more acid fruits, such as currants, sour cherries, etc., use i pound of sugar 
to a pint and a half of water. The longer the sugar and water are cooked together 
the heavier the syrup will be. Cook without stirring, to prevent crystalizing. 

As a general rule 15 minutes cooking after reaching the boiling point will be 
sufficient to sterilize fruits, with the exception of very seedy ones, such as currants, 
which will take a little longer owing to the viscous nature of the substance sur- 
rounding the seeds. 



) 



THE SELECTION OF FRUIT 

Be sure that it has been freshly gathered on a dry day and is not over-ripe. The 
finest flavor does not develop till the fruit ripens, but the pectin, which is the jellying 
principle, loses some of its properties immediately after this stage; therefore, use 
fruit that is rather under than o\'er-ripe, especially for jellies and preserves. 

When cashing is necessary place the fruit, a little at a time, in a colander and run 
water gently through and over it, draining well afterwards. Peaches can be pared 
without waste by clipping a few at a time in boiling water and removing the skin 
with a sharp knife, as one would remove the skin of a tomato. 



« 



TO CAN FRUIT IN JARS OVER THE FIRE 

Fill the jars with prepared fruit and place in a steamer or other large vessel contain- 
ing warm water. The jars must be protected from the bottom and sides of the 
vessel and from each other, either by putting them in a rack made for the purpose, 
or by placing hay, excelsior or paper under and around them. Put on the covers, 
but do not screw them down. Let the water come within four inches of the top of 
the jars, and cover the cooking vessel to prevent the escape of steam. Cook for 
15 minutes after reaching boiling point; take out the jars, one at a time, fill with 
boiling syrup, cover and cool. Tighten the covers when the fruit is cold. 



TO CAN B^' OPEN KETTLE PROCESS 

Make a syrup of any desired sweetness. If a very rich flavor is wanted make a 
syrup from sugar and extra fruit juice instead of sugar and water. Prepare the 
fruit, cook it in the syrup till tender and then fill and seal the sterilized jars as usual. 
It is the sterilizing, not the quantity of sugar used, that insures the keeping of fruit. 



^ 



xssi. 



f 



4- 



<- 



-J- 



-^ 






^ 



010 



243 




x>c 



TO CAN WITHOUT COOKING 

This method is suitable for sour fruits, such as rhubarb and gooseberries. Cut the 
former into 2 inch lengths; top and tail the latter. Fill the jars w ith the fruit and 
run cold water from the faucet into them for 10 minutes. Seal as usual. The 
natural acid of the fruit will keep it without cooking. 




Always examine the jars carefully before putting away and be sure the covers 
are screwed as tightly as possible. It is a wise precaution to turn each jar upside 
down for a short time. 



As all canned fruits keep better in a dark, cool place, an excellent plan is to 
put each jar into a red or blue paper bag. which protects it from light. 



Cherries requiie 8 minutes boiling, with b ounces of sugar to the pound. 



Strawberries require 12 minutes boiling, with 8 ounces of sugar to the pound. 



Peaches (in halves) require 10 minutes boiling, with b ounces of sugar to the 
pound. 

Pears (in halves) require 20 minutes boiling, with b ounces of sugar to the pound. 



Raspberries require 10 minutes boiling, with b ounces of sugar to the pound. 
Blackberries require 10 minutes boiling, with 8 ounces of sugar to the pound. 



Pineapples (sliced) require 15 minutes boiling, with 8 ounces of sugar to the 
pound. 



Currants (ripe) require 10 minutes boiling, with 8 ounces of sugar to the pound. 




Whortleberries require 10 minutes boiling, with 5 ounces of sugar to the pound 





■3<X 

Plums require lo minutes boiling, with 8 ounces of sugar to the pound. 




Crabapples require 25 minutes boiling, with 8 ounces of sugar to the pound. 



Grapes requiie 15 minutes boiling, with 8 ounces of sugar to the pound. 



Rhubarb, or pie-plant (sliced), requires 15 minutes boiling and 10 ounces of sugar 
to the pound. 



Quinces should be boiled until tender, w ith 10 ounces of sugar to the pound. 



TO MAKE PRESERVES requires U to i pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit; boil I'o to 2 hours. 



For a small family, pint fruit jars are preferable to quarts tor canning and 
preserving. 




JELLY MAKING 

All fruits for Jelly making should be gathered just before they are fully ripe and 
on a dry day. Acid fruits are most suitable, as they contain more pectin (the 
jellying principle) than the sweeter varieties. 

Strawberries and blackberries are difficult to make jelly from without the addi- 
tion of some other fruit, such as apple, currants, etc. 

TO COVER JELLIES 
There are three methods in common use: 

1. Dip a round of paper in either alcohol or brandy, lay it on top of the jelly 
as soon as it is cold and then put the tin cover of the glass over the top. 

2. Dip a round of paper in slightly beaten white of egg, cover the glass with 
this and press down till the paper adheres closely. The paper must be large 
enough to overlap the top of the glass at least half an inch on all sides. 

3 . Cover the jelly, when cold, with melted paraffine wa.\, having the wa.x quarter 
of an inch thick, as it contracts when cold, and if too thin a portion of the jelly w i 
be left uncovered. 



xx: 




rssr 



CURRANT AND GRAPE JELLIES 

Pick over the fruit carefully and remo\e all foreign matter; put in a preserving 
kettle and crush to liberate the juice; heat till it flows freely, then place in a jelly 
bag previously wrung out of cold water and let the juice drip slowly. It may be 
left to drip over night. Measure, heat to boiling point, add the heated sugar, 
a pound to each pint of juice, and boil 5 minutes; skim if necessary; test, and if it 
jells, pour at once into glasses. Cover according to any of the directions given 
later. 

If a light, delicate color is desired in making currant jelly, the stalks must be 
removed. This takes time, but the result warrants it. 

In some cases good jelly can be made by using only ^4 of a pint of sugar to 1 
pint of juice. This applies to fruits which contain a large proportion of sugar 
in themselves and also when the season is exceptionally dry and sunny. 



5 



APPLE, PLUM, CRABAPPLE OR QUINCE JELL^' 

Wash, wipe and stem, from apples, crabapples and quinces remoxe the blossom; 
quinces need hard rubbing to remove the fuzz; from plums remo\e the stones. 
Cut all fruits into con\enient sized pieces, using a silver knife to prevent dis- 
coloration, and add water, for apples and crabapples half as much water as fruit, 
for the other kinds of fruit use a little less water as they have more juice of their 
own. Cook until tender and strain through a jelly bag. Measure the juice and 
add the sugar, pound to pint, unless the fruit is very sweet, when a little less should 
be used; cook till the juice jellies when a little is cooled in a saucer; then put into 
glasses and co\er. It must be remembered that too long boiling destroys the 
jelKing principle; consequently, the fruit must not be allowed to cook longer than 
necessary. 

If sugar is heated after measuring, the jelly will be clearer and jell more quickly. 
The heating can be done while the fruit is coming to the boiling point. 

Jellies made by the cold process are the most delicate, but are not likely to keep 
quite as well as when fruit juice and sugar are cooked together. The method 
followed is the same as for ordinary jelly so far as the cooking, straining and 
measuring of the fruit and juice are concerned. 

The sugar — pound for pint — is added to the strained juice and dissolved; the 
sterilized glasses filled and co\'ered with sheets of glass to keep out the dust and 
attract the rays of the sun, and the jellies left in a sunn\' place until set. They 
are then covered according to directions gi\en. 



bdL 



£Sk. 



248 



rnr 



T^ 



PICKLING 

SOUR CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Select loo cucumhei- pickles about i inches long, wash and put in salt brine (strong 
enough to float an cgi;); let stand over night. Next moi'ning mix together i 
tablespoons each whole allspice, whole cloves, mustard seed, 1 1 bay leaves and i 2 
small red peppers. 

Drain the cucumbers ani.1 pack in a jai' in layers, sprinkling each layer w ith the 
spices. 

Boil I gallon cider vinegar, let cool and pour o\er the spiced pickles in the jar. 
Cover to keep out dust and set away. 



5 



SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Select 100 cucumber pickles, not o\er 2 inches long, wash and put in salt brine 
(strong enough to float an egg) ; let stand over night. Next morning mix together 
1 tablespoons each ground allspice, ground clo\'es and ground cinnamon, put in a 
bag and boil these in i gallon cider vinegar w ith 5 pounds sugar for 30 minutes, 
then take out spice bag ancl let vinegar cool. When cool pour over the pickles, 
which have been drained and packed in an earthen jar. Cover to keep out dust. 



SWEET MIXED PICKLES 

Mix together i quart small cucumbers, cut in quarters lengthwise, i pint small 
white onions, i small cauliflower broken in small bunches, '2 pint chopped celery 
and 1,2 pint wax beans, broken; pack in layers in a jar, sprinkling each layer with 
salt (using I cup salt) and let stand o\cr night. Next morning drain the brine 
otf and over the contents of jar pour enough boiling water to co\'er; when scalded, 
drain. Put into a bag i tablespoon each grounLl allspice, ground cloves and ground 
cinnamon, boil these in 3 pints \inegar with 2 cups sugar for 30 minutes, then take 
out spice bag and let vinegar cool. When cool pour over the mixed pickles, which 
have been scalded, drained and packed down in an earthen jar. Cover to keep 
out dust. 



PICKLED BEETS 

Boil 2 dozen beets (size of walnut) until tender and then peel them. Boil i quart 
vinegar with i cup sugar, ; bay leaves, 6 each of whole cloves, black pepper and 
allspice, let cool and pour o\er the beets in an earthen jar, co\er to keep out 
dust; or seal in screw-top jars. 



X££k, 



f 



•^ 



"^ 



4- 



^^ 



-5- 



•5- 



-^ 



KiSf 



t 







xx 



S 




GREEN TOMATO PICKLE 

Slice ^2 peck green tomatoes thin and pack in a jar in layers, sprinkling salt between 
each layer; let stand over night. 

Next morning mix thoroughly together dry. i tablespoon ground cloves, i 
tablespoon ground cinnamon, i tablespoon ground black pepper, i tablespoon 
ground turmeric, 3 tablespoons mustard seed and 4 tablespoons gi'ound yellow 
mustard. Slice b onions thin. Drain brine off of tomatoes and pack in alternate 
layers with the sliced onions in a kettle, sprinkling each layer with the mixed 
ground spices; add enough vinegar to co\er, let come to a boil and boil 20 minutes; 
stir well so as to mix all thoroughh' while boiling. Put in jar and let cool, then 
cover to keep out dust. 

SPANISH PICKLE— Sweet Tomato Pickle 

Wash and slice thin 'o peck green tomatoes and 2 onions. Pack in layers in a jar, 
sprinkling each layer with salt (using i cup salt for all). 

Next morning drain and put into a kettle, add i level teaspoon each whole 
allspice and whole cloves, 2 rounding tablespoons mustard seed, i ^i cups sugar. 
2 finely chopped green peppers (remove seeds) and enough cider vinegar to cover. 
Let simmer 40 minutes; then put into screw top jars, let cool and close tightly. 

CHOW CHOW— Mustard Relish 

Mix together i quart small cucumbers (pickles), cut in quarters lengthwise, i 
pint small w hite onions, i pint sliced green tomatoes, i small cauliflower broken 
in small bunches and 3 green peppers quartered; pack in layers in a jar, sprinkling 
each layer with salt (using i cup salt) and let stand over night. 

Next morning drain the brine off and pour over the contents of jar enough 
boiling water to cover; when scalded drain. 

Boil in a double boiler i quart vinegar, f tablespoons ground yellow mustard, 
I rounding teaspoon turmeric. 3^ cup of sugar and ^2 cup flour; stir the ingredients 
smooth with a little cold vinegar before putting them in to cook. Cook until 
mixture thickens then pour over the pickles and mix well. This will keep in stone 
jar. Cover to keep dust out. 

If liked, 1 cup chopped celery and 1 cup wax beans (broken) may be added 
before salting in the evening. 

GINGER PEARS 

Peel and cut in strips i dozen large pears (which are not quite ripe), add sugar 
equal to -3 the weight of the pears, the juice of i lemon, 2^ cup water and i rounding 
teaspoon ground ginger. Boil all together until the peai's become transparent; 
then put into screw-top jars, let cool and close tightly. 




-^S^>i. 




252 




SPICED pears—Sweet Pickled 

Peel 2 dozen pears (medium size and not quite ripe), leave them whole, boil in 
water until beginning to get tender, then drain and pack in screw-top jars. Boil 
2 quarts vinegar, i, pounds sugar, i rounding tablespoon whole cloves and a 2-inch 
piece of stick cinnamon for 30 minutes; while hot pour over the pears in the jars, 
let cool and close tightly. Peaches can be prepared same as ab^nc. but should not 
be boiled in water; merely heat them in the vinegar a few minutes and pack in jars. 




i 





»: 




i^^y^^ ^ ^ ^^^^^ 



^^ K^-^ ^ ^r^A^^ 



rnr 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE SICK ROOM AND 
COOKING FOR INVALIDS 

Keep patient in a bright, sunny room, without carpet or draperies, so it can be 
cleaned and aired often and easily. Dust with damp cloth and wipe floor; do not 
sweep. 

Air the I'oom by pulling down the windows I2 foot from top and raise at the 
bottom, but be sure to keep the patient out of a draught and have well covered 
with a blanket until room is waim. Keep bed linen clean and keep under sheet 
free from wrinkles. 



Enough care cannot be taken in picparing the food. Serve in the prettiest 
dishes and arrange food as daintily and uppetizingly as possible. 



Do not serve too large a quantity of food: small portions are more attractive. 
Do not leave soiled dishes or water glasses stand in the sick room. Do not bump 
or sit on the bed. walk lighth', close doors softly and do not speak loud or whisper; 
an even, gentle tone is best. 



BEEF TEA 

The best cut of beef for beef tea is from the top round, as that contains the most and 
best flavored juice. Wipe the meat, remove the fat, scrape with a sharp pointed 
knife or cut in very small pieces, and as fast as it is cut or scraped, put it in a glass 
jar containing cold water, allowing i pint of water to i pound of meat. Cold 
water draws out the juice. Cover and let stand '2 hour, then place the jar in a 
kettle of cold water (place something under the jar in the kettle to prevent jar 
breaking). Set the kettle on back part of the stove and allow water to heat slowly ; 
keep it just below the boiling point for 2 hours. Press contents of jar through a 
strainer to obtain all the juice, and add salt to taste; heat over hot, not boiling 
water, before ser\ing. Save the meat, mi.\ with cold cooked, mashed or chopped 
potatoes, season well and make into hash for the family, using more fat or butter 
in warming than in making other hash. 




TOAST WATER 

Toast slices of bread slowly until they are very brown, but not burned. Break into 
small pieces and add boiling water, allowing i pint of water to iH cups of toast. 
Let it stand for 1 o hour. Strain through cheese cloth, season with salt and serve 
\ery hot or \ery cold. The bread may be browned in the oven instead of being 
toasted. Toast water is given in cases of extreme nausea. Sometimes it can be 
retained on the stomach when nothing else can. 



XSSki 



rnr 



MUTTON BROTH 

Remo\'e the skin and fat from i ' o pounds of neck of mutton, cut in small pieces and 
put in a kettle or stewpan with 2 quarts cold water and i teaspoon salt. Heat 
slowly, skim and cook on the back of the stove for 3 oi- 4 hours, or till meat is in 
shreds. Strain, cool, skim off the fat and heat again to boiling point, add 2 table- 
spoons barley to the broth, letting it cook until \-ery tender, then strain and serve 
very hot. Barley contains the most easily digested form of starch, and for that 
reason, as a rule, it is better for an in\alid than i ice. 

The mutton may be saved and used in the same way as the beef from the beef tea. 

FLA.XSEED LEMONADE 

Wash I tablespoon flaxseed and put in a saucepan with i'2 cups cold water and 
thin rind of i^ lemon. Cover and let simmer on back of stove for an hour. Strain 
and add the juice of U lemon and 2 tablespoons sugar. Serve hot or cold, kla.x- 
seed lemonade is given to patients suffering w ith colds affecting the throat or lungs. 



5 



BARLEY' LEMONADE 

Wash I '2 tablespoons barley, drain, a^ld 2 cups of cold water, cover and let stand 
for 1 or 2 hours. Place over the fire and cook slowly for 2 hours; strain and add 
juice of ^2 lemon and 1 tablespoon sugar; heat before serving. A little salt may 
be added, if desired. Refreshing and nutritious drink for convalescents. 



CRACKER GRUEL 

Mix '4 cup of rolled crackers, I4 teaspoon salt, '■_; cup boiling water and '■> cup of 
milk, cook for a few minutes, stirring constantly; if too thick, thin with milk. 
Cracker gruel is given in cases of bowel trouble. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL 

Mix I tablespoon corn meal, i teaspoon flour and i.i teaspoon salt with enough cold 
water to make a smooth paste, then stir into this 1 '2 cups of boiling water. Boil 
slowly 30 minutes, stirring often. Serve thinned with hot milk; add more salt if 
needed. Good for convalescents. 



A 



MILK PORRIDGE 

Moisten i tablespoon flour to a smooth paste with a little water, add to 1 cup hot 
milk and boil for b or 8 minutes, stirring all the time. Season with salt and strain 
if lumpy. A little sugar may be added, if liked. X lilk porridge is given for looseness 
of the bow els. 



^s^ 




©I® 

9 



^ 



A- 



-i- 






f 



4* 



^* 



-^ 








xx: 



EGGNOG 

Beat I egg until light, add i teaspoon sugai\ ^ ■> cup milk and season with salt. 
Stir thoroughly ani:l ser\'e cold. A tablespoon of good v\ hiskcy may he added. 

POACHED EGGS 

Break an egg carefully into a saucer and slip it into a frying pan of hot, salted water. 
Dip hot water o\er the yolk with a spoon while cooking. When the white is firm 
and a film has formed over the yolk, take up the egg with a skimmer, drain, trim 
off rough edges and serve on a slice of toast. Season with salt and pepper. 

CREAMED EGG 

Beat I egg lightly, add salt, pepper and 3 tablespoons milk. Melt i teaspoon 
butter in a saucepan placed over hot water, pour in egg mi.xture and cook till it 
thickens and becomes creamy, stirring all the time and scraping from the bottom 
and sides, so that it may cook e\-enl>-- If cooked too much the mi.xtui'e w ill curdle. 
Ser\e on toast. 

y^ IRISH MOSS BLANCMANGE 1^ 

\\ Pick over and wash i tablespoon Irish moss, put it in a small saucepan with ^2 cup i^V 

jT^ milk, place over hot water and cook for a few minutes, till it will thicken when tried yT 

I on a cold dish. Add pinch of salt and a few drops of vanilla or other flavoring r^ 
extract to taste. Strain into a cup and serve cold with sugar and cream. 

AN INVALID'S DRINK 

Place in the bottom of a wineglass 2 tablespoons of grape juice ; add to this the 
beaten white of an egg and a little chopped ice. Sprinkle sugar over the top and 
serve. This is often served in sanitariums. 

GRAPE JUICE AND OLIVE OIL 

As an excellent substitute for cod liver oil. physicians recommend the following: 
Put 4 tablespoons grape juice in a glass, add i to 4 tablespoons olive oil and take 
immediately, 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL 

Squeeze the juice from the berries and to every cup of juice add a cup of water. 2 
tablespoons sugar and i level tablespoon mixed ground spice; boil together 15 
minutes, strain and let cool. Then to each cup of this mixture add 1 2 cup of good 
whiskey or brandy. Bottle it and cork tightly; it will impro\'e with age. 



»: 






>c< 



CHICKEN CUSTARD 

Beat I egg, aclcl '2 cup strong chicken broth and '2 cup fresh milk, season with salt 
and pepper to taste and strain into small cups. Set the cups into a pan of hot 
water and bake in a moderate oven. This is good either hot or cold. 




LEMON ICE 

Boil 14 cup sugar and '.j cup water together with a small thin piece of lemon rind 
for about 3 minutes, cool, add juice of i lemon and freeze like ice cream. 

ORANGE ICE 

Boil }i cup sugar and i.> cup water together with small thin piece of orange rind for 
about 3 minutes, cool, add juice of 1 large orange and freeze like ice cream. 



^ 







P ^jn 


<^$ 




^1 


J^ 


_-^g 


m. 


m 




T^ 





TSST 



1^ 

















^yc. 



All Brides Ought to Have at least • 2 dozen each of the different household 
linens, more towels and napkins, if possible. But no matter what the quantity, 
take only '2 of the things for daily use, always keeping some and using them in 
turn as you supply new later on. "I'ou w ill in this way always have a set of 
nice pieces and will not have all torn and worn out at the same time. 



Alliminlim Ware when discolored by alkalies or burnt adhering matter is best 
restored by cooking tomatoes in the vessel or by filling it with water and adding 
I teaspoon oxalic acid and letting stand over night. Can also be scoui-ed with 
fine scouring material ; never scrape with knife, wire cleaner or sharp instrument 
nor coarse scouring material ; never use lye or ashes. 



Apple cut or pared and placed in cake box keeps cake fresh a long time. 



Ammonia Water will remove the unpleasant odors resulting from perspira- 
tion; it is a perfectly harmless remedy; use 1 tablespoon of ammonia to a quart of 
water and sponge the body with it. 



Ammonia Water after it is used for washing may be used to water house plants. 
It is a good fertilizer. 



Brooms shouki be soaked in strong hot salt water befoi'e using; it toughens 
the straws and the broom w ill last longer. 



jssk. 



264 



rssr 



Brushes should he washed in ammonia water; it; thoroughly cleanses them, 
stiffens the bristles and to a great extent prevents the bristles coming out. 



Battenbergs, if rinsed in water with a teaspoon of borax when laundering, wil 
not require starching. 



Bread insufficiently salted becomes acid, drv and crumbles. 



Bread Crumbs are preferable for covering articles for frying; cracker crumbs 
absorb the grease. 



Bread, when stale, may be dried and put through the meat chopper; this 
makes it much finer than rolling and does not take so much time. 



Bread or cake when warm should be cut with hot knife; dip knife in hoc 
water and wipe dry. 



Black Spots on dishes and discolorations on teacups are removed by damp 
salt. 



Bamboo, Rattan and basket furniture may be thoroughly cleaned by scrub- 
bing with brush and strong salt water. 



Bath Tubs, wash basins and stone slabs are quickly cleaned by rubbing with 
dry salt before washing. 



Bedroom Floors may be kept cool and fresh in summer if wiped daily with 
cloth wrung out of strong salt water. All microbes, moths and pests are thus 
destroyed. 



XSSL 



5 



265 



f 



-J- 



i 



m 



<• 



ys^ 



-5* 



-5- 



-y 



m 






-^ 






SI 




>c< 



Boiled Starch is much impro\-ed by the addition of sperm or salt, or both, 
or a little gum arable dissolved. 




Burns can be relieved by applying alum water or soda or coat over with 
unsalted lard, vaseline or white of an egg. 



Borax put in the last water in which clothes are rinsed will whiten them 
surprisingK . This is especially good to remove the yellow that time gives to 
white garments. A teaspoon of pulverized borax is sufficient. 



5 



Colds, hay fever and kindred affections may be much relieved by using very 
fine drv salt as snuft. 



Catarrh, Nasal, is often relieved by a syringe of weak brine or by snuffing fine 
dry salt up the nostrils. 



Carpets are brightened and their colors preserved if wiped with clean cloths 
wrung out of salt water. 



Carpets ma\- be freed of moths by scrubbing the floor with strong, hot salt 
water before laying the carpet and sprinkling the carpet with salt once a week 
before sweeping. 



Cheese wrapped in a cloth moistened with vinegar will neither dry out nor 
mold. Rind should be trimmed off. 



Coat Collars can be cleaned by rubbing with equal parts of ammonia and 
alcohol. 




Camphor kept with your silver will keep it from tarnishing. 



i 



»z 




268 




>c< 



Claret Stains can he removed by covering the spot with salt as soon as claret 
is spilt; let it remain a tew minutes, then rinse in cold water. 




Cornstarch added to fruit pies will prevent running or cooking over. 



Curried Dishes are particularly delicious in summer, when our appetites need 
a little stimulating. 



Croquettes and meat balls w hich are covered with bread crumbs and dipped 
in egg may be made the day before; the egg makes an airproof covering. 



Celery' eaten abundantly is good for neuralgia. 



Celery Tops can he dried and used for flavoring soups, etc. 



^ 



Carpets with small figures v\ear best. 



Cake Pans dredged with flour will keep cake from sticking. 



Caraway Seed ground is a flavoring lor cake ; the ground spice is preferred to 
the seed by many. 



Challies come out nicely when washed in rice water, made by boiling i pound 
of rice in 5 quarts of water. Strain and cool. 




Clothing may be freed from grease spots by mixing equal parts of ether 
ammonia and alcohol and rubbing into the grease spot. Allow it to evaporate. 



»Z 




271 



} 



T5ST 



Ci'T Glass may be cleaned by washing, then drying and afterwards brushing 
with a soft brush dipped in prepared chalk, carefully going into all crevices. 



Charcoal is recommended as an absorber of gases in the milk room or ice 
box. It should be freshly powdered and placed in small box or saucer. 



Cotton Goods will not fade by subsequent washing if placed in boiling 
water into which i'^. cups of salt to every gallon of water has been dissolved. 
Leave goods in water until cold. 



Dining Table can be polished with melted beeswax rubbed on with a soft 
cloth. 



Drawers that stick or bind will work smoother if rubbed with hard soap. 



Dresses may be bleached when faded by boiling in cream of tartar water. 



Dyspepsia, heartburn and indigestion are relieved by a cup of hot water in 
which a small spoonful of salt has been dissolved. 



Drains can be kept clear and clean by pouring down once a week at night a 
can of scrubbing lye dissolved in a gallon of water. Hot soap suds and washing 
soda are also good. 



Dish Washing should be started by scraping left-over particles from the 
dishes; then in hot soap water, wash glasses first, then cups and saucers, then 
plates, etc. ; rinse washed dishes in clear, hot water, let drain, then rub dry. Remove 
grease from pans with newspaper, then wash in hot soapy water, dry with dish 
cloth wrung dry and finish by placing on stove or shelf. Soak all dishes in cold 
water immediately after using. 



XSSL 



^SST 



Doors that creak should he oiled at the hinges with machine oil. 



Eyes when weak and tired are refiTshened by bathinj;; with warm water and 
salt. 



Flaxseed, boiled, strained and the juice flavored with lemon is excellent to 
stop a cough. 



Furniture or Floor Polish can be made by melting 2 ounces beeswax and 
mixing with 1 pint turpentine; apply with brush and polish with soft cloth. 



Floors that have large cracks or open seams can be filled by dissolving i pound 
of ordinary glue in i pint of boiling water, to this add enough fine sawdust to make 
it of consistency to spread well. This is excellent and inexpensive; can be used 
^ to fill cracks before \arnishing or painting. ■ _ 

9 I i 

Fatigue that prevents sleep may often be relieved by rubbing the body gently 
with a towel wrung out in hot salt water. 



Flannels should be dried quickh- after washing, and when ready, dry-press 
with a moderate hot iron and thev will shrink but little. 



Fire when smouldering or dull, ma\' be cleai-ed for broiling with a handful 
of salt. 



Feathers uncurled by damp weather are easily curled by shaking over fire, 
in which salt has been thrown. 



Fish may be scaled much easier by first dipping them into boiling water for 
a minute. 



sssi. 






■f 



4- 

m 



^- 



-?• 



-5- 



-y 



/at 






f 






i 



<- 



-y 



7Rf 



f 



m 



-i- 



•> 






m 




xx: 



Fruit Stains may he remo\'ed from linen or cotton by pouring boiling water 
through the fabric. 

Granite Ware can be cleaned when mixture has cooked or burned on by 
half filling with water and washing soda, heat gradually to boiling point, boil for 
some minutes, empt\-, then wash. 




Grease Spots may be remo\ed fi'om cloth by rubbing v\ith salt dissolved in 
alcohol or ammonia. 



Grease Spots may be removed from a carpet by using chloroform or 
ammonia and water. 



Grease spilt on kitchen floor should be treated as follows: Pour cold water 
on it immediately; this will harden it and prevent it from soaking into the wood; 
then scrape with a knife. Before scrubbing soak the spot with cold water and 
washing soda for lo minutes. 



Grease Spots on wall paper can often be removed by the application of 
prepared chalk; let remain for a day and dust off. 



Grass Stains can be removed from cotton goods by washing in alcohol. 



Garments stained by perspiration should be soaked in cold suds and bleached 
in the sun. 



Hiccoughs can be cured by taking a long breath and holding it. 




Ink Spots can be removed from white goods by soaking in milk or applyinj 
emon juice. 



»: 




276 




XX 



Ink Stains, if fresh, can be removed from carpets and tablecloths by succes 
sive applications of dry salt. 




Iodine after being applied to the skin can be removed with ammonia if it 
smarts too much. 



Iron Rust can be removed by saturating the spot with lemon or tomato 
juice, covering w ith salt and exposing to the sun for several hours. 



Irons should be heated gradually when new to prevent cracking. 



Irons can be excellently cleaned with fine emery paper. 



Jars holding a pint are more economical than larger ones for preserves in a 
small family. 



Jewelr"!' and precious stones will become very bright if cleaned with i part 
ammonia and 3 parts hot water. 



Japanese and Plain Straw Matting should be washed with salt water 
and rubbed dry. This keeps them soft and prevents them becoming brittle and 
cracking. 



s 



Jellies or Ices can be removed from glasses or molds very readily by 
wrapping hot cloth around same a minute, then turn out on a dish. 




Kerosene applied to unused stoves will pre\'ent rusting. 



Kerosene poured down the sink and boiling water immediately after wi 
clean out a stopped-up drain pipe. 



>x: 




277 




278 




279 



TSST 



IvNiFE blade stains, however obstinate, will disappear if rubbed with a piece 
of raw potato. 



Knives with ivory or pearl handles should never be put in hot water; it causes 
them to crack and discolor. 




5 



Lemon and salt will remove stains from fingers. Do not use soap afterwards. 



Lamp Burners are improved by Lioiling in strong washing soda water, then 
rub w ith cleaning cloth. 



Lamp will not smoke if wick is soaked in vinegar and well dried before using. 



Lace Curtains can be given a creamy shade if wanted, by adding clear 
strong coffee to the starch. 



Medicine Stains may often be removed with strong ammonia. 



Mildew Stains can be eradicated with lemon juice. 



Mattresses should be covered with heavy muslin; it looks better than ticking 
and can be washed. 



Mirrors should not be washed with soap unless greasy. Use soft rags and 
clear water and finish with chamois or a rag that does not leave lint. 



Mlistard with a pinch of salt added will not sour. 



! 



■^ST 



Meat may be kept fresh in summer by immersing it in sour milk or buttermilk, 
and putting it in a cool place. Rinse well before using. 



Meat beginning to sour will sweeten if placed out of doors in cool air over night. 



Milk which has changed may be sweetened or rendered fit for use by stirring 
a little baking soda in it. 



Marble can he cleaned with two parts of common soda, one part of finely 
powdered pumice stone and one part of finely powdered chalk; sift through a fine 
sieve and mi.x it with water; then rub it well over the marble, and the stains will 
be removed. 



5 



Milk pan should be rinsed in cold water before using for scalding milk; it will 
prevent sticking. 



Milk when fresh should not be mixed with old if you wish to keep it. 



i 



Milk Bottle should always be washed on the outside before any milk is 
poured from it. 



Nutmegs can be tested by pricking with a pin; if they are good the oil wil 
spread around the puncture. 



Oxgall added to water will set colors of any goods soaked in it before washing. 
Use I tablespoon to a gallon of water. 



A Oxalic Acid should be added to water in w hich white stockings are washed 

■'■*™ to remove the stains caused by shoes, but should never be used for colored stockings, 

as It w,ill bleach them. 



,£2L 




283 




xx: 



Onions eaten with bread and butter a short time before retiring will act as a 
sedative and induce sleep. 




Orange and Lemon Peel should be dried and kept in bottles to be used 
in cooking. 



Overshoes can be brightened with ammonia water when they become dingy. 



Potatoes if pared and laid in cold water just before boiling will be much whiter. 



^ 



Pans which have retained the odors of cabbage, onions or other strong-smelling 
vegetables, can be sweetened by first washing and drying the pans, then turning 
them bottom up over a little salt sprinkled on the stove. 



Pans and kettles should be filled with cold water and allowed to soak away 
from heat ; never place them on the stove to soak, it only makes them more difficult 
to clean. 



Pillow Cases may be made out of linen or Holland shades that have been 
discarded and washed several times. 



Paint on white goods, when still fresh, can often be removed by simply soaping 
it well and then pouring water over it. 



Paint Stains, when dry and old, may be removed from cotton or woolen 
goods with chloroform. It is a good plan first to cover the spot with olive oil or 
butter to soften it. 




Roaches can be poisoned by placing cucumber peelings around their haunts 

"xr ^ 





Raisins and Currants, if rolled in flour before putting into a cake, will not 
sink to the bottom. 




Soap and Water should nc\er be used on varnished work. 



Salt added to the whites of eggs will make them whip better; just a pinch to 
each egg. 



Salt and Sligar mixed together will sometimes stop coughing. 



^ 



Soap dried and grated, mixed with corn meal and borax, is an excellent cleanser 
and whitener for the hands. Mix i cup grated soap with 2 cups fine corn meal 
and I teaspoon powdered borax. 



Suet should be chopped in a cool place and sprinkled with flour to prevent 
sticking together. 



^ 



Salt will clean a bottle or \inegar cruet nicely. Use plenty coarse salt and 
very little water, shake vigorously until clean, then rinse. 



Silverware may be cleaned with soft leather or chamois dampened with water, 
and dipped in pi-epared chalk. Do not use soap on silverware; it will dull the luster. 



Soap boiled in water until dissolved is fine for washing the hair; it cleanses 
better than cake soap. Boil scraps and small pieces to a thin paste. 




Salt mixed w ith cornstarch in proportion 6 to i will prevent lumping in salt 
cellar. 



XX 




WF^^ ^^^ 



m^^ — — ,_._ , -c^ ^ 



286 



■CST 



Salt and Vinegar is the best thing for scouring copper kettles. 



Sugar added to the water used for basting roast beef will give it a rich brown 
color. 



Sieves should not be washed with soap, but cleaned with a brush and clear 
water, using washing soda if necessary. 



Soap is injurious to oilcloth; better clean with milk and water. 



Shoes when damp inside should be stuffed with paper; it will absorb the 
moisture and prevent them getting hard. 



i 



Salt, in solution, is an antidote for many poisons. 



Salt, used as a tooth-powder about once a week, hardens the gums, makes the 
teeth white and sweetens the breath. Use very fine salt. 



Salt will curdle new milk, hence in preparing porridge, gravies, etc., salt should 
not be added until the dish is prepared. 



Starch with a few drops of kerosene added will make the ironing easier. 



TiNV/ARE may be cleaned and brightened by scouring with powdered washing 
soda. 



Turpentine added to the water in which your clothes are boiled will whiten 
them. 



£SSi. 



rnr 



Tea Stains can he prevented from spreading and be removed hy pouring clear 
boilins water tlnrough stained fabric. 



Utensils should be well cared for; nothing more quickly characterizes good 
housekeeping than the care of kitchen utensils. "A good workman loves and cares 
foi' his tools." Such utensils as turn with cranks and have oil in their bearings 
should not be left in water, as the oil is thus washed out and the utensil quickly 
spoiled. Clean well with clear hot water and dry thoroughly before putting away. 



Utensils of all kinds, such as pans, pots, skillets, etc., should be cleaned with 
as much care on the outside as on the inside. Use clean, hot, soapy water, changing 
as soon as it becomes greasy; wash and rinse the dish towel after each using. Keep 
things clean — "do not get them so once a week," 



5 



Varnish or Paint spots in cotton or woolen goods may be removed by apply- 
ing oil of turpentine or benzine; after using either, the goods should be washed in 
soap suds. 



5 



Velvet can be restored and the pile raised by covering a hot smoothing iron 
with a wet cloth and holding the velvet firmly over it; the vapor rising will raise 
the pile of the velvet with assistance of a light whisk. 



Vegetables to be used for salads should be soaked and washed in cold salt 
water to remove germs, insects and worms. 



Vases if filled '4 full of sand w ill not be blown or knocked over so easily. 



Windows that creak should be oiled at the rollers with machine oil 



Windows should not be washed with soap unless greasy. Use soft rags and 
clear water and finish with chamois or rag that does not leave lint. 



£^ 



289 




290 




xx: 



WHEN SERVING 
First. — Food should always be set down before the guests from the right side. 

Second. — When a dish is presented from which a guest is to help himself, it 
should be passed fiom his left. 

Third. — When a course is finished, remove the plates from the left side. Most 
of the minor particulars of serxing depend entirely upon the number of assistants 
in attendance. 




^ 





»: 





>c< 



SOME REASONS 

Why We Take Milk or Cream in Our Coffee; Because tea and coffee both 
contain tannic acid, whicin has a strong affinity for albumen and therefore is apt 
to injure the coating of the stomach; but when milk or cream, both containing 
albumen, is added to tea or coffee, the tannic acid is neutralized and the lining of 
the stomach is protected. 

Why We Add Vinegar to a Salad Dressing: Not only because it tastes 
better, but for a chemical reason, which is as follows: Raw vegetables are easily 
enough digested by cows and horses, but with difficulty by the human stomach, 
because they contain that hard, fibrous substance, cellulose. Acids dissolve 
cellulose, and \inegar is an acid; that is why we take it with salad and cabbage, 
and doubtless that is why it tastes so good, for the palate is an excellent judge of 
what is good for the stomach. Oil is added for the very good reason that it protects 
the lining of the stomach from the action of the acid in the vinegar. 

Why We Take Butter on Bread: Partly because flour does not contain fat, 
but primarily because l3utter contains a trifling quantity of a substance called 
"extractives," which in some unknown way stimulates and aids digestion. 

Why We Use Pepper, Mustard and Spices: Because they tickle the glands 
of the stomach and make them work, thereby producing an abundant supply of 
digestive juices; they also stir up the liver, and a stirring up of this organ is 
important for people who live sedentary lives. 




^ 







»: 





294 




295 



TSST 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

bo drops ----------I teaspoonful. 

3 teaspoons --------- i tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoons --------- i wineglassful. 

4 wineglasses --------- i cupful. 

lb tablespoons of liquid --------i cupful. 

I gill ---------- ij cupful. 

1 cupful --_-_----- lij pint. 
4 cupfuls ---------- I quart. 

2 cups butter, packed solid ------- i pound. 

4 cups sifted flour -------- i pound. 

q large eggs ----------i pound. 

2 cups granulated sugar ------- i pound. 

Teaspoons and tablespoons are measured level, unless otherwise stated. 



A rounding teaspoon or tablespoon means that the material should lie as much 
above the edge of the spoon as the bowl sinks below it. 



A heaping teaspoon or tablespoon means all the material that can be heaped 
upon the spoon. 

One-half spoon is measured lengthwise of the spoon. 
Cups are measured level full. 

Butter or lard when measured by the spoon or cupful should be warm enough 
to pack solid. 

A set of measures (quart, pint and half-pint) should be in every kitchen. The 
graduated measures divided into quarters, halves and thirds are best. 

An accurate scale is indispensable to good cooking and housekeeping. 



bd aSL 



296 



rnr w 



TABLE OF PROPORTIONS 

Each cup of flour usually recjuires: 

'2 cup butter or butter and lard mixed for pastry, 
I rounding teaspoon of butter for biscuit. 

1 rounding tablespoon of butter and lard mixed for shortcakes. 

2 rounding tablespoons of butter for cup cakes. 

I rounding tablespoon of buttci" to i cup of water for basting. 

14 teaspoon salt. 

I heaping teaspoon baking powder. 

J 2 cup milk for muffins, gems, etc. 

1 cup milk for batters of all kinds. 

To 3 cups flour, use 1 cup liquid for bread. 

To 1 cup sour milk, use }-2 teaspoon baking soda. 

To I cup molasses, use 1-2 teaspoon baking soda. 

To I pound of meat, use 1 teaspoon salt. 



5 




A 



xss^ 



f 



•* ^*&- • 






f 






-^ja* 



(f — a(gna» ». 



•> 






V9K< 




299 




xx 



^ 



GEMS AND PRECIOUS STONES 

Have in all ages possessed a fascination for mankind and were known and prized 
long before the dawn of histor\'. In this great length of time they have gathered 
a halo of veneration and esteem which nothing else possesses. 

The Diamond is pure crystallized carbon, never successfully imitated — the 
hardest and most brilliant of gems. 

Ruby and Sapphire are nearly pure alumina, crystallized with faint traces of 
metallic oxide as coloring matter. 

The Emerald is closely allied to the Ruby and is the most precious of the Beryl 
family. The light bluish green varieties are called Aquamarines. 

Pearls are secretions formed in certain oysters and mussels, the latter mostly 
found in fresh water, and when of odd shapes are styled "Baroques," often 
highly prized. 

The Opal is chiefly silica and is colored by minute fissures filled with moisture 
and air, which reflect all the prismatic colors. 

Bloodstone is a dark green quartz colored with small red spots. 

Topaz consists of alumina, silica and fluorine, and occurs yellow and pink in 
color. 

The Garnets constitute a very large family of varying composition, all, however, 
bright red in color, but not so hard as the Ruby. 

The Turquoise is composed of aluminum phosphoric acid, copper and iron, the 
most prized having a rich blue color. 

Amethyst is a violet colored quartz and was used by the ancients for drinking 
cups. 

The Chrysoberyl is composed of alumina and glucina, \vith traces of lead, copper 
and iron o.xides, and occurs bright pale green, greenish yellow and reddish brown. 

The Spinel is composed of alumina and magnesia and occurs dark red, white, 
blue and green. 

The Hyacinth is composed of silica and zirconia, with traces of iron oxide, and 
occurs in cinnamon color, brownish red and yellow. 

Tourmaline is composed of fluorine, silica, alumina, boracic acid, magnesia, with 
traces of iron oxide, lime, soda, potash, and occurs green, yellow, red. blue, black, 
brown, and sometimes white. 

The Olivine, or Peridot and Chrysolite, are composed of silica and magnesia, 
with traces of iron, nickel and manganese oxides and alumina, and is yellowish 
green in color. 

The Carbuncle is a Red Stone, Ruby or Garnet, cut half round like a half pearl, 
and sometimes hollowed out at the back. The style of cutting is called cabochon. 





»c 




^ 



300 




THE APOSTOLIC GEMS ARE 



Peter — Jasper. 
Andrew — Sapphire, 
James — Chalcedony, 
John — Emerald, 



Phillip — Sardonyx, 
Bart — Carnclum. 
Matthew — Chrysolite. 
Thomas — Beryl. 



James (the less) — Topaz 
Thaddeus — Chrysoprase 
Simeon — Jacinth, 
Mathias — Amethyst. 



THE GEMS FOR THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC ARE 



Aries — Ruby. 
Taurus — Topa;. 
Gemini — Carbuncle. 
Cancer — Emerald. 



Leo — Sapphire. 
Virgo — Diamond. 
Libra — Jacinth. 
Scorpio — Agate, 



Sagittarius — Amethyst 
Capricornus — Beryl. 
Aquarius — Onyx. 
Pisces — Jasper. 




THE ANCIENT ITALIANS SET GEMS IN WEDDING RINGS 



January — Garnet. Friendship. 
February — Amethyst, Constancy. 
March— Bloodstone. Wisdom. 
April — Diamond, Innocence. 
May — Emerald. Happiness. 
June — Agate. Health. 



July — Ruby. Concord. 
August — Sardonyx. Family Increase. 
September — Sapphire, to Prevent Strife. 
October — Carbuncle. Love. 
November — Topaz. Obedience, 
December — Turquoise. Faithfulness. 



THE GEM ALPHABET, as used to indicate initials and spell names is as follows: 

D 



Transparent. 

Amethyst. 
j Almadine. 
I Amber. 

Amazonstone. 



Bervl. 



B 



Opaque. 

Agate. 

Avanturine, 

Aquamarine. 

Alexandrite. 

Asterias. 



Bloodstone. 



Transparent 
Diamond. 

Emerald. 

Feldspar. 



Opaque. 
Diaspore. 

Egyptian Pebble. 

Firestone. 



Chrysoberyl. Cachelong. 

J Cinnamon Stone, Chrysoprase, 

\ Carbuncle. Carnelian. 

/ Cymophare. Cat's Eyes. 

1 Cairngorn. Chalcedony, 

Chrysolite, Coral. 




>c>< 




Garnet 



Hyacinth, 
Hiddenite. 



301 






■^m 






^^---^ m 



^ST 



5 





I 




" 


R 




Transparent. 




opaque. 


Transparent. 




opaque. 


IdocrasL-. 






Star Ruby. 




Rose Quartz. 


lolite. 


J 




Ruby. 


S 




Jargoon. 




Jasper. 


Sphene, 




Sard. 






Jet. 


Sapphire. 




Sardonyx. 




K 




Spinel. 




Star-Sapphire. 


Kyanite. 




Krokidolite. 




T 






L 




Topaz. 




Turquoise. 






Tourmaline. 






f Lynx- 
l Sapphire, 




Lapis-Lazuli. 










Labradorite. 




U 






M 




Uranite. 




Ultra Marine. 


Moonstone. 




Malachite. 








Moroxitc, 


N 


iMarcasite. 


Vesuvianite. 


V 


\'erd-Antique. 


Natrolite. 




Nephrite. 




w 






O 




Water-Sapphire 




Wood-Opal. 


Olivine, 




Obsidian. 




X 




Opal, 


P 


Onyx. 


Xanthite. 




Xgolite. 


Pyrope, 




Porphyry. 




Y 




Peridot, 




Plasma. 


Yellow Quartz. 






Pearl. 


Q 






z 




Quartz, 




Quarts-Agate. 


Zircon. 




Zurlite. 



££L 



^ST 



5 



THE TWELVE BiRTH-MONTH GEMS FOR THE YEAR 


JANUARY— Garnft 


JULY— Ruby 


By her who in this month is born. 


The glowing Ruby should adorn 


No gems save Garnets should be worn ; 


Those who in warm Jtily are born: 


They will insure her constancy. 


Then will they be exempt and free 


True friendship and fidelity. 


From love's doubt and anxiety. 


FEBRLJARY— Amethyst 


AUG UST — Moonston e 


The February-born will find 


Wear Moonstone or for thee 


Sincerity and peace of mind; 


No conjugal felicity: 


Freedom from passion and from care. 


The August-born without this stone 


If they the Amethyst will wear. 


'Tis said must li\e unloved and lone. 


MARCH— Bloodstone 


SEPTEMBER— Sapph 1 RE 


Who in this world of ours their e\es 


A maiden born when .'Autumn leaves 


In March first open shall be wise. 


Are rustling in September's breeze. 


In days of peril firm and brave. 


A Sapphire on her hand should bind — 


.And wear a BLOonsTONE to their grave. 


Twill cure diseases of the mind. 


APRIL— Diamond 


OCTOBER— Opal 


She who from April dates her years. 


October's child is born fcjr woe. 


Diamonds should wear, lest bitter tears 


And life's vicissitudes must know; 


For vain repentance flow, this stone 


Let an Opal be worn with zest. 


Emblem of innocence is known. 


And hope will lull those woes to rest. 


M.AY — Emerald 


NOVEMBER— Topaz 


Who first beholds the light of day 


Who first comes to this world below. 


In Spring's sweet flowery month of May. 


With drear November's fog and snow. 


And wears an Emerald all her life. 


Should prize the Topaz' amber hue. 


Shall be a loved and happy wife. 


Emblem of friends and lovers true. 


JUNE— Pearl 


DECEMBER— Turquoise 


Who comes with summer to this earth. 


If cold December gave you birth. 


And owes to June her day of birth. 


The month of snow and ice and mirth. 


With ring of Pearl upon her hand. 


Place on your hand a Turquoise blue. 


Can health, wealth and long life command. 


Success will bless whate'cr you do. 



bd 



xssi. 



{ 



305 




307 




309 




310 




PBJIETimPlSg® 



aAiitaTMLg^CTia 



APR 2? 19tl 



One copy del. to Cat. Div. 
APR 2; ISf'i 




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 487 827 9 t 



